

a
■ M
' > j
m.
i
There is no surer guarantee of G-.Vs
leadership than the fact that in
Australia—as the world over—more
people ride on Goodyear Tyres
than on any other tyre.
The G-3 All-Weather Tread
provides maximum skid resistance,
greatest stopping power, longest
mileage.
Supertwist Cord in every ply gives
maximum bruise and blowout
protection.
For greatest Safety and Mileage, fit
G-3 —the best tyre money can buy.
MORE PEOPLE RIDE ON GOODYEAR
x.
I
r\
TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER TYRE
The Bulletin
: far &>fje tfyo.
Vol. 59.—N0. 3063.
Wednesday, October 26, 1938,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
NIETZSCHE AND THE NAZIS.
From time to time attempts are made to identify
the most militant aspects of the Nazi ideology with
the philosophy of Nietzsche. During the recent Euro-
pean crisis, when the will-to-war or will-to-peace of
the German people was of such profound importance,
a writer in a Sydney daily stated bluntly that Nazism
was based on Nietzsche’s ideas. The truth is that if
the German people were really to adopt Thus Spake
Zarathustra as a credo the totalitarian State would be
impossible.
It is very likely true that Nazi extremists bor-
rowed Nietzsche’s conception of fulfilment through
war for the purposes of internal propaganda or pos-
sibly even with the intention of putting it into practice.
It is also most certainly true that that notorious
panegyric on the warrior has had so little influence
on the German people that given their great oppor-
tunity for war last month they welcomed peace.
There are a number of books that are popularly
supposed to have changed the course of history.
Rousseau’s Social Contract, and the French revolu-
tion ; Marx, and the Russian revolution ; Thus Spake
Zarathustra, and the 1914 war and Fascism. It is
more correct to say that the books followed history,
that they gave expression to ideas immanent in the
people at the time when they were written. Books
follow the event, in the sense that the forces making
for the event are already in motion when the book
appears, and it is those forces that create the book.
Out of industrial discontent, for example, was born
the theory of socialism.
The immense power of the book for good or ill,
however, is that in giving expression to current ideas
and forces it gives them form and direction. The
vague flood becomes a river, all the more potent for
its intellectual definition. For that reason, if what
Nietzsche wrote about war was something implicit in
the German nature or explicit in Germany’s economic
necessities, it is well worth examining. The chapter
on war is an astounding piece of writing:
We desire not to be spared by our dearest enemies,
neither by them that wc love from our heart of hearts.
Let me then tell you the truth!
1 know the hatred and envy of. your heart. Ye are
not great enough not to know hatred and envy. Be
ye then great enough not to be ashamed of them!
And if ye cannot be saints of knowledge, at least be
her warriors. They are the companions and forerunners
of such holiness.
I would have you like to those whose eye ever seeketh
the enemy —yoUr enemy. And with some of you there
is hate at first sight.
Ye shall seek your enemy, ye shall wage your war,
and for your own ideas!
Ye shall love peace as a means to new wars —and
short peace'better than long.
. I counsel you not to work but to fight. I counsel
you not to make peace but to conquer. Let your work
be battle and your peace victory.
Do ye say a good cause halloweth even war? I say
to you: A good war halloweth any cause.
There have been countless disputes as to whether
Nietzsche was speaking symbolically of the spirit at
war with time and circumstance or was cold-bloodedly
advocating a war in which the German “Superman”
was to dominate the world. The latter theory, though
it has made Nietzsche a popular bogey, and though
some justification can be found for it, is a prepos-
terous misconception. Assuming, however, that it
were correct; assuming that Nietzsche regarded war
as the noblest activity of man ; and assuming further
that that idea was immanent in the German people
and that it might have been adopted by Nazi ex-
tremists: it is still ridiculous to associate Nietzsche in
any way with the totalitarian State. The chapter suc-
ceeding that on war shows him the passionate oppo-
nent of all regimentation. He writes “of the new
idol”:
The State? What is that? Give ear to me now, for
now will I speak to you of the death of peoples.
The State is the coldest of all cold monsters. Coldly
it uttereth its lies; and this is the lie that creepeth out of
its mouth: “I, the State, am the people.”
Destroyers are they which lay snares for the many
and call them States: they impose on them a sword and
an hundred lusts.
This sign I give unto you: each people speaketh its
own language of good and evil —which its neighbor
understandeth not. Each people hath found for itself
its own language of customs and rights.
But the State lieth in all the languages of good and
evil: whatsoever it saith, it lieth: whatsoever it hath,
it hath stolen.
False is it wholly; it is a biter which biteth with
stolen teeth. False are its very bowels.
“On earth there is naught greater than I; I am the
ordering finger of God!” thus belloweth this monster.
And not only the long-eared and short-sighted fall upon
their knees.
No Fascist is talking there! If it is assumed
therefore, as is necessary for the identification of the
wildest Nazi propaganda with Nietzsche’s chapter on
war, that Nietzsche speaks for the soul of the German
people, it is further necessary to suppose from the
chapter ju t quoted that the Germans are fundamen-
tally and -violently opposed to order, to regimentation
and to the whole conception of the totalitarian State,
If that were true (and it is often enough suggested) the
present regime would not last long.
But as far as it is reasonable to generalise about
any nation it seems that, despite Nietzsche, the Germans
really like submission to authority. Nietzsche does
not apply here. The chapter on war, it must be ad-
mitted, may be equally inapplicable.
The only way to avoid such confusions is to
regard Nietzsche purely as a symbolist. Presumably
he did not suggest in grim earnest “Thou goest to
women? Remember thy whip!” The will-to-war is
better interpreted as a will-to-power comparable to
Kipling’s Imperialism, and, as was demonstrated at
Munich, stopping short in the face of world war.
It is doubtful, however, if Nietzsche should ever
be considered politically, or that he ever intended to
write as a politician. “Women are yet ever cats and
birds” may be good psychology, but it would need
very tactful modification before it could be applied
politically. Thus Spake Zarathustra, almost poetic in
form, is the work of a psychologist and a poet. It is
full of contradictions which bespeak the “divine mad-
ness” of the poet, and which probably were a fore-
shadowing of the actual madness that overcame him.
In the chapter on war, for instance, he clamors for
individualism:
I see many soldiers: would I saw many warriors!
“Uniform” are their garments called: would that were
not uniform which they conceal beneath!
A few paragraphs later he rages against the indi-
vidual: —
Rebellion—it is distinction in the slave. Let your
distinction be obedience! Let your very command be
obedience!
In the State chapter, immediately after attacking the
“cold monster,” he asks for obedience again:
Creators were they which created the peoples and
imposed on them one faith and one love: thus they
served life.
That might easily be regarded as a plea for dic-
tatorship. It is not. It is a plea for Nietzsche. When
his colossal egoism could not tolerate even Wagner
claiming the privileges of a “Superman” he is hardly
likely to have approved of any overlord but himself.
Thus Spake Zarathustra, in its true significance, is
purely person3l: genius dashing itself at the keyboard
of the world, not caring what the tune may be as
long as it is wild and big enough not merely to.
“astonish the bourgeois,” but to terrify him. The
“creator” whom.the people must obey is not
tician or a dictator, but Nietzsche the genius whom
they must worship.
The book’s “truths” are psychological and
spiritual, best described as lyrical. Its psychological
truth is the recognition of life as a struggle, of the joy
of the will in the struggle, and of the intensity of
feeling, whether of love or hate, as the measure of
“beauty.” Its lyrical truths sparkle on every page.
D. H. Lawrence in the preface to his Pansies noted
that lyrical truth cannot be generalised ; it is true for
its time and place. If abstract truth could be regarded
as a universe, the lyrical truths of a Lawrence or a
Nietzsche are a single star, apprehended in all its glit-
tering intensity, but never a system. Read simply as
poetry, as the dance of a wild old man who leaves
his mountain, his eagle and his serpent to delight,
mock and, above all, to dazzle the people of the market-
place, Thus Spake Zarathustra is magnificent:
Do as the wind when it rusheth forth from its
mountain caverns: to its own piping it danceth, the seas
tremble and leap beneath its footfalls.
Praised be that good unruly spirit that lendeth wings
unto asses, that milketh lionesses, that cometh like the
whirlwind upon all to-days and all rabbles
That chastiseth all thistle-heads and muddle-heads, all
withered leaves and tares: praised be this wild, good,
free storm-spirit that danceth over marshes and
afflictions as upon meadows.
This crown of the laughing one, this crown of
roses —to you, my brethren, I toss this crown!
Aboriginal Art.
Australian Aboriginal Decorative Art, by
Frederick D. McCarthy, published by the Australian
Museum, Sydney, is a big step in the right direction.
As Professor A. P. Elkin points out in the foreword,
“For some years we have been concentrating on social
organisation, economics and totemism. Now that we
have a better understanding of these matters we should
turn our attention to aboriginal art, for the purpose
not only of classifying and describing it, but also, of
relating it to those other aspects of native life.” In
other words, of rounding out our idea of the abo-
riginal as a human being.
The book carries 33 photographic reproductions
and one plate in color. The articles illustrated fall
into two main groups: sacred objects and articles of
daily use. The plate shows the aborigines’ sound taste
in combining color and design. Granted that earth
colors reduce the possibility of error in respect of the
first, the arrangement as regards juxtaposition is pleas-
ing and shows the native artist’s appreciation of the
limits as well as the possibilities of his pigments.
The sacred objects, such as some of the Arnhem
Land grave-posts, are elaborately executed. The
author notes that the only massive carvings of the
aborigines are the carved trees, limited to New South
Wales. He observes that with the coming of white
men and the acquisition of steel tools by the natives
the latter immediately incised the tree carvings much
more deeply than had been possible with stone axes
—in the circumstances a rather pathetic gesture of
race affirmation. The carved tree illustrated shows a
close geometric design cut about an inch deep and ex-
tending several feet up the trunk.
The articles of common use, shields, spears,
boomerangs, clubs, dilly-bags, are decorated in a wide
variety of well-balanced patterns. Considering that
they are all items destined, through wear, loss and
breakage, to be short-lived it is possible to get an idea
of the strong aesthetic impulse that moved the abo-
riginal to their adornment.
The excellent finish of the carved boomerangs and
shields, when it is remembered that the raw material
was a solid tree and the only tools available some
scraps of sharp stone wedged in cleft sticks, is surely
evidence of the native’s patient and clever craftsman-
ship. It is notable that as progress is made northward
incision tends to be abandoned for painting as a means
of decoration,'and that as this occurs skill in painting
increases. The dyed basketry of the northern blacks
is exceptionally pleasing. The patterns vary geo-
metric designs with conventionalised human, animal
and fabulous figures. • _
McCarthy points out that the designs are not the
product of whim. The totemic myths are both the
inspiration and authority of the native artist. He
is depicting something calculated to add to the efficacy
of the article he is working on, a heroic tale or some-
thing in the nature of a social precept derived from
the mythical founder and guardian of his tribe or
family.
His art, like the white man’s, is evolutionary. He
in unconsciously limited at every turn by the accumu-
lated tradition of generations of artists who preceded
him, yet within these limitations he continually finds
means of individual expression, which, in its turn, goes
to establish a tradition for future individualists to
labor against.
The aboriginal, aside from the art that drew its
inspiration for totemism, had a considerable amount
of free art. It found its expression in “play-about”
corroborees, which were frequently a dramatisation of
some incident, comic or tragic, in daily life. It also
crops up in numerous “play-about” paintings and
carvings and was the native’s comment on existence.
Australian Aboriginal Decorative Art not only fulfils
its main object well but, in noting the possibility for
individual expression within the traditional, comes to
the borderland of free art and a further field of pro-
fitable investigation.
Blossoming Desert.
Ernestine Hill’s big book, Water Into Gold (Robert-
son and Mullens), is a cheerful epic of Australian
life. It tells the story of the Murray Irrigation Area
from the days when Jamieson’s garden on the river
bank was a wonder to travellers in an arid land. It
is a good story, full of life and color, and with all the
fairy-tale fascination of seeing something made where
before there was nothing. The author sums up in
three words: navigation, irrigation, reclamation.
She begins with Sturt’s discovery of the Murray,
the development of the Darling and the Murray as
highways of commerce till in one season there were
92 boats trading on these waters. Yarns of the old-
timers follow, serio-comic river adventures, the paddle-
wheeler that took three years to get to Bourke, the
small traders in canoes, the intense competition, the
dropping away of trade, the failure of the pastoral
industry under drought.
Then came the suggestion that irrigation might
solve many problems. Follows the story of Alfred
Deakin’s visit to the irrigation areas of California ;
the arrival in Australia of the Canadian Chaffey
brothers, who had practised irrigation in California
with outstanding success; their long, disheartening
negotiations with the Government; the beginning of
operations; the booming of Mildura and Renmark ;
and the campaign, from these flowering bases, to re-
claim the Mallee. It is a triumphant story, but not
without dust and heat.
At first the scheme almost failed from being too
ambitious; the inhabitants endured floods, heat,
typhoid epidemic, Government interference, and the
irrigation area became almost a casus belli when
Henry Parkes claimed the waters of the Murray as the
property of New South Wales and ordered Chaffey to
withdraw his pumping plant. The press was up in
arms and The Bulletin stamped the occasion with a
cartoon of a swagman dipping his billy in the Murray
while Parkes levelled a rifle at him.
The claim was withdrawn and Mildura went
ahead. The bitterest blow came when the cultivators
had a bumper crop of fruit and no means of trans-
porting it save in jolting horse-drawn lorries which
landed their prize products in town in a state of pulp.
Out of this tragedy grew the dried-fruit industry.
From here Miss Hill carries the story on to the
coming of railways, the De Garis incident, the con-
quest of world markets, and ends with a paean of
praise and a roll of honor. “This is a history of the
pioneers, not dead but living For all that the wave
of the fairy’s wand has raised it to the millionaire
rank, the river has lost none of its old-time charm
and beauty.”
The author sees the pleasant side of everything
and everybody. “Mildura society was divided into
three —the Gold-knobs, the Silver-tails and the
Copper-bottoms —but under the surface it was all one
big family, welded together in one interest —the glory
of the Garden.” Among a lot of good anecdotes the
story of Dr. Abramowski’s desperate shifts to live in
an obdurately healthy neighborhood is memorable.
He finally gave up medicine for moneylending.
The book is illustrated with many fine photo-
graphs.
American Prisons.
Don Castle's Do Your Own Time (Arthur Barker)
reads like a novel, but it is really a piece of report-
ing. Castle was sent to San Quentin prison with a
“from-nothing-to-fourteen-years” sentence for ‘Taw-
violation”—as distinct from crime.
He had given a bartender a cheque for ten
dollars to hold until payday and then forgot about
ir. When arrested he paid the money, but on advice
pleaded guilty and asked for probation. “If I hadn’t
pled guilty the prosecution would have dragged
friends, relatives and acquaintances through the mire
of publicity.” He didn’t get probation ; he got gaol,
and his experiences there drove him to make a vow
that as soon as he was liberated he would ventilate
the whole matter.
There follows a full-length picture of prison life,
everything included from messroom comedy—“Y’
o Continued on page 8 .)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—aIways.
. ?■* t V'?7?
V
MSKf<qOR
■proof
<^£^'-o4FLY
“THE SENIOR STORE."
S 3
E mmmm
In this page will be found all the material needed to build
strong, serviceable screen doors and windows. Flies are a
I dangerous enemy of man . . they are direct germ and disease
■ carriers. Be wise, keep them outside your homel Take every
precautionary measure.
©
cm
0.
rm
OM
n
Corner and Centre Door Bracket (Xu
202). At Anthony Horderns'
PRICE, set of 6 1/10
Antique Coppered Door Handles At
Anthony Horderns’.
PRICES, *ach 2d., 5d.. 5?d., 6|d
Japanned Screen Door Hinges At
Anthony Horderns'
PRICES, pair 7d.. 1/2
Brassed or Cadmium Door Hinges At
Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, pair, lOd.
Telescopic WINDOW SCREENS
With Galvanised Gauze* to open up
to , 36x12 36x191 42x19-J
PRICES, each 3/9 4/9 5/3
With Bronze Gauze. At Anthony
Horderns'
PRICES, each 4/9 6/- 7/-
Screen Door Catches, Bronzed, for Flyproot Doors
Opening Outwards (Xu3) At Anthony Horderns'.
PRICE, each 1 2/7
With Lever Handle At Anthony Horderns'
PRICE, each ......... 2/2
Snappy Catches. At Anthony Horderns'.
PRICE, each lOd.
DOOR OR GATE SPRINGS
Spiral Door or Gate Springs. Japanned. *with
Screws At Anthony Horderns’
Lengths, ins. ... 9 10 11 12 14
PRICES, each 9d. 10d. 1/1 1/4 1/9
Nickel-plated ... 1/6 1/8
•A
3K
55
s*;
8
//
WOVEN WIRE (Fly & Mosquito Proof )
ZINCOID
ittt : i: rrn
SCREENDOOR CHECKS
•Rega" Door Checks and Closers, for screen doors and light
interior doors Adjustable to right or left-hand doors without
making any changes whatever A turn of a valve instantly
adjusts to different weight of doors At Anthony Horderns'
PRICE, each 7/-
••• •
Mitlll
SSBV
■ ,
MATERIALS FOR MAKING DOORS
We supply these in sets comprising.—
1 set Dressed Timber and Beading
1 set of six Corner and Centre Brackets (Xu 202).
1 pair Spring Hinges;. 1 Door Handle
Brads and Tacks and sufficient Woven Wire to complete
FOR DOORS 6ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in., 6ft. Bin x 2ft Bin 7ft x 3ft
Oregon Timber and Zincoid Woven Wire—
At Anthony Horderns' PRICES, set—
By using the corner and centre brackets supplied with sets, no
mortising is required, thus enabling the amateur to make and fit
a Fly Door equal in every way to any Fly Door on the market
NOTE.—The Timber in these Sets is cut for approximately 7ft x 3lt.
doors. Before setting up, measure off the size required for YOUR
door and cut accordingly
• Department—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Delivered Free anywhere within our Delivery Area.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.
HORDERNS
LOW PRICES
'Phone: M 2401. Day and Night


Could It Happen?
DOUBLE
and
REDOUBLE
Remembering the trouble this man’s body
and clothes had caused him in the past few
hours, Wendle lost all patience. He hauled
off and drove a vicious right to Winch’s jaw.
BY H.C. McKay
ILLUSTRATED BY JOHN MILLS.
J HE car, with a screech of brakes,
[ swerved suddenly. There were shouts
and screams as the crossing pedes-
trians scattered ; two were struck and
hurled aside. One man picked himself up and limped
to the pavement The other lay motionless.
Peter Wendle joined the crowd which gathered
round the huddled figure. One glance was enough.
It was his own body.
A man came pushing through the crowd. “Make
way, please, I am a doctor.” He made a swift examina-
tion. “Dead. Ring an ambulance, somebody.”
Wendle looked on without emotion. He had read
about this kind of thing in novels and stories. His
body was dead. He was now a ghost. He would
haunt, of course, his home and friends for a short
period, watch his own funeral, then face the After
Life, whatever that might be. He felt rather bored
with the whole business. He had a sudden urge to visit
his home, to be present when his wife heard the news
of his death. He flitted off in the direction of his
King’s Cross flat.
The action was much the same as walking. He
even grew tired. It was a slack period, trams not
crowded ; as an invisible ghost he could have ridden
free ; but, uncertain of his complete intangibility, he
decided not to risk it.
Reaching his flat, Wendle halted. Just after
death, according to spiritualists, the ghost can make
itself visible to a loved one. But did he and Anne love
each other? They’d been drifting apart for years.
That very morning there’d been a bitter argument
over a new dress he’d promised her.
The flat door was ajar ; he heard shuffling and
giggling. Looking in he saw Anne struggling with the
radio-instalment collector. The young man was trying
to steal a kiss.
“No, no —you mustn’t!” gasped Anne, resisting
but feebly.
“I should think not!” shouted Wendle angrily,
advancing into the room.
The effect was electric. The collector made the
door in two leaps ; Anne stared, screamed and slumped
to the floor in a faint. Without thinking Wendle lifted
her on to a couch ; then the significance of the action
struck him. Intangible ghosts cannot make contact
with or carry the living. Evidently he was not dead
after all. In a maze he tiptoed out of the flat and back
to the street.
HE wandered on, still confused; he was passing a
hotel. “This will test it,” he muttered. He
passed through the swing door to the bar. “What’s
yours?” asked the barman.
“Glass of milk,” replied Wendle automatically.
“Glass o’ what?”
“Mug of beer,” corrected Wendle in confusion.
How had he come to say “milk”? He got his mug,
then caught sight of himself in a mirror behind the
bar, and froze stiff with shock. He was not Peter
Wendle at all.
The reflection resembled his former self in some
particulars ; he was the same height and build ; the
features were alike. But the face was thinner and
paler ; it had lost its flushed roundness ; it had a mild,
harassed, almost ascetic expression. Its upper lip car-
ried a feeble blond Hitler moustache. He was wearing
a faded black suit, a hard collar, a gloomy-looking
hat. Wendle gulped his beer to master his panic,
ordered another, sought a chair, and feverishly
searched his pockets for clues.
He got them. A notebook in a leather case was
inscribed “Mr. P. Winch, Paradise-avenue, Slaters’
Bay.” The pages were sprinkled with entries in a neat
cramped hand. “Bobbie’s shoes, repair, call for.”
“Progress Association meeting, 7th.” “Doctor’s bill,
Betty’s tonsils.” “Cogwheel for lawnmower, 3s. 6d.”
“Pram, monthly payment, due Thursday.” “Ask Mr.
Cadwallader for rise in salary.” This last, in some-
what agitated writing, was cancelled by a pencil
stroke.
The dreadful truth flashed upon him. By some
incredible catastrophe he, Peter Wendle, the easygoing
commercial traveller, had quit his own dead body and
was now occupying that of a stranger —apparently a
respectable struggling suburbanite with a large family.
Before he had time to ponder this amazing dis-
covery the bar started to sway around him, the bar-
man and his customers became bewilderingly double.
He recognised what was happening. His new body was
evidently a teetotaller. He was getting it drunk. By
an effort he managed to reach the bar door, but once
outside he lurched helplessly about, his legs quite out
of control. He decided to make for Hyde Park.
Luckily there were no policemen about as he staggered
down William-street. He reached a seat in the park
and sank into it.
He seemed to have been in a stupor for hours
when a drawling monotone beside him woke him to
the fact that an old man was sharing his seat.
“Human doubles—all rot, I says.” The old man
spoke in a high-pitched challenging voice. “Suppose
a bloke has a ‘double,’ as like him as two peas. 1 says
them two blokes is practically the same person. They
got the same dials, the same bodies, the same insides.
The brains is diff’rent, says you. The brains is only
apparently diff’rent, says I, ’cause of henvironment.
But mebbe the argyment’s beyond you.”
Wendle recognised the type—one of the park
debaters who spend their days arguing endlessly on
every subject under the sun. But strangely enough
his chosen topic was one which now vitally concerned
Wendle. He roused himself and
put a question. “Suppose two
‘doubles’ were knocked out in
the same accident, and one was
killed. Could the souls change
over, so that the soul of the
dead man got into the body of
the survivor?”
“O’ course they could,” re-
plied the old man confidently.
“That’s transmogrification.”
“And how could the
changed-over soul get back to
its right body again?”
“Wot would it want to do
that for? Why, you mug, its
right body would be dead!”
“Well, what could it do?”
“Do nothin’ jes’ ( carry
on,” said the old man. “It’s new
body’s prac’ly hidentical with
the one it ’ad before, ain’t it?
All the bloke’s got to do is go
back to ’is own ’ome, deny ’e’s dead, an’ bluff it out.”
A light broke in on Wendle. There was the
solution of his problem! Get rid of his moustache at
a barber’s, toss away all papers or property of Winch
he carried, sneak home and get into one of his own
suits. Leaving the old man he hurried across the park
to a city street. A barber’s sign caught his eye, but
just as he reached the door there was a childish outcry,
“Daddy!” He was suddenly seized in an implacable
grip-
Wendle swung round and faced a large dominat-
ing person with three small children in tow; a stout
woman with a forbidding countenance and fiery eye.
“Peter Winch!” she boomed. “What are you
doing here at this hour of the day? Why aren’t
you at work? Explain yourself immediately!”
“My good woman” mumbled Wendle, trying
to free himself. It was no use.
“You reek of beer!” shouted his captor pitilessly.
“You’ve been drinking—you’ve lost your job! You
miserable worm! It’s just what I expected! Out on
the loose with the lawnmower money, and me moiling
and toiling, working my fingers to the bone”
This angry woman, obviously the wife of the
body he was inhabiting, would not let Wendle go. She
nagged and shouted ; the children set up a wail; a
small crowd gathered. A policeman pushed his way
through. “What’s going on here?” he demanded.
Desperately Wendle thrust the woman into the
policeman’s arms, yelled “Person taking a fit—hold
her!” broke free, and ran. He dodged into a big
store, left it by a side door, and had the luck to board
a passing tram. No one followed. He was free.
PETER rode some blocks before he gained courage
to alight. Then he entered the nearest barber’s
saloon and got rid of the ridiculous lip-fringe that
linked him with P. Winch of Slaters’ Bay. He shot
Winch’s notebook and other papers into a postal pillar.
Finally by a roundabout route he returned to his own
flat, anxious to complete the transformation with a
change of suits. But once again he found a visitor
there.
As he approached he heard the sound of panting
breath and scuffling feet; then the wheedling voice
of his wife. “No, no, darling!” Anne was pleading.
“Just calm down a moment! Then I’ll undress you
and put you to bed.” Wendle reached the open door,
saw the struggling group inside and stood amazed.
(Continued on page 7.)


For Fishermen and Others
BAIT
by John Dewhurst.
DBA WING BY SUCH.
‘ ‘ ✓'"* AUGHT anything yet?” asked the burly
I stranger in the shiny blue suit as he came
V, to a halt and stood behind where I was sit-
ting in the shade of a gum-tree, watching my
motionless float.
“No,” I answered sleepily ; “not even a bite.”
With much puffing and grunting he lowered the
heavy bulk of his body to the ground at my side.
“What are yer after —blackfish?” was his next
question, and when I told him he had guessed cor-
rectly he wanted to know what bait I was using.
“Wattle grub,” 1 told him, reaching for my bait-
tin and shaking it to bring the fat, white bodies to
the top. “Pretty good lot, aren’t they?”
He peered inside the tin, then grunted. “No
use for this creek,” he announced, decisively shaking
his head. “I’ve never seen a blackfish pulled out of
’ere by anyone fishing with wattle grub. Got any
worms?”
Yes, I had some worms, I admitted.
“T hen pull yer line in and try one of them, and
I’ll bet it won’t be long before yer get a decent-
sized fish.”
Sooner than argue 1 wound in my line, thinking
that in any case 1 could fare no worse than I had done
so far.
“No, not that one,” he stopped me. “ ’Ere, let
me do it,” and delving into the tin he pulled out an-
other worm. “See, this is the sort yer wants ; thin
and wiry and plenty of life in it; not like that fat,
lazy cow you was putting on. 1 guarantee it wouldn’t
’ave ’ad a wriggle left in it when it’d been in the
water a couple of minutes.”
He threaded the worm on the hook in a business-
like manner. “See,” he said, dangling it in front of my
face, “that’s ’ow yer wants ’em ; lively and plenty of
color in ’em. Now try that,” and he watched me cast
into the middle of the pool.
“Don’t ’appen to ’ave the makings on yer?” he
asked, and I tossed my pouch over to him wordlessly.
He rolled a cigarette, and having placed the pouch
on the ground between us, where it was handier for
him than for me, he lit the cigarette and inhaled
deeply.
“Yer know,” he said, “half the battle in fishing
is using the right bait. Some blokes’ll tell yer that yer
need all sorts of fancy tackle, but I don’t ’old with
that. I reckons that if yer’ve got the right kind of
bait yer’ll catch fish on a bent pin and a piece of
string. Catch ’em, but I don’t say land ’em. Yer
needs decent hooks for that. That fish is liable to
wriggle off before yer gets it to the bank.
“Course it’s not everybody as knows what bait
to use. You thought that the bigger worm yer used
the better it’d be. That’s all wrong. Fish is funny
that way ; something like ’uman beings. They’d
sooner ’ave something bright and lively, even though
they know, as yer might say, that it won’t make as
good a meal as something more substantial.” He
leered at me confidentially and then spat at a piece of
rock jutting out of the water.
“IT were like that with Mrs. Lewis, what kept the
* Railway ’Otel in Wongyip, and her sister Maisie.
If they’d only remembered what I’ve told yer, maybe
—ssh,” he hissed warningly, “there’s something at it.”
The float was bobbing up and down in queer
little jerks, and finally it disappeared a few inches
below the surface.
“Now strike,” he urged, but when I struck my
rod met no resistance.
“Let’s ’ave a look at the worm,” said the stranger,
and I wound my line in.
“Just what I thought,” he announced, examining
what was left of the worm. “Yabbies! They’re a
blasted nuisance. Better put a fresh worm on, and
remember what I told yer.’ Thin and lively and
plenty of color in it.”
When the rebaited hook was in the water and
he had rolled himself another cigarette, he began
again. “Yes, there was Mrs. Lewis and Maisie ’er
sister, what ’ad come to stop for a short ’oliday and
ended up by stopping the best part of six months, and
they was both making a dead set at Mat Robinson.
“Yer might say that there wasn’t much about Mat
to get the women all excited. That’s what I used to
think until I took a tumble to it. It
was ’is ey.es. They was blue. Nothing
out of the way, just like any other
bloke’s, might ’ave been yours or
mine, but when ’e was talking to a
woman they used to sparkle just like
there was little dancing devils stoking
up fires behind ’em, and it fair got the
women in. They used to stand there
looking into ’is eyes all the time as ’e
were talking to them, and I don’t think
they knew ’alf the time what ’e were
saying.
“Well, Mrs. Lewis were reckoned
to be pretty comfortably off, seeing
as ’ow Joe ’er ’usband ’ad been a
saving kind of a bloke, and besides
’aving the pub ’e’d run a book on the
side for as long as I could remem-
ber ; and then there were ’er sister
Maisie, what ’ad been a teacher in
the city until a rich uncle what ’adn’t approved of 'er
sister marrying a feller in the ’otel game leaves ’er
all ’is money when ’e kicks the bucket.
“Joe ’ad ’ardly time to get settled in ’is grave
before Mrs. Lewis starts playing up to Mat, and for
a bit it looked as if she were going to ’ave a walk-
over. It was ‘Yes, Mr. Robinson,’ ‘No, Mr. Robin-
son,’ and ‘Do you think so reely, Mr. Robinson?’ and
all the time she’d be leaning over the bar looking into
’is eyes and us other fellers would ’ave to ask two or
three times for another pot.
“Then ’er sister Maisie comes down to stay with
’er for an ’oliday, and one day Mrs. Lewis, unthinking
like, says to Mat: ‘ ’Ow about joining me sister and
meself in a little tea in the kitchen after the bar
closes?’ I’ll bet afterwards she could ’ave bit ’er
tongue out, for as soon as Maisie claps eyes on Mat
she falls for ’im too, and within a week them two
females are just about as matey as if they ’ad both
turned up at a church social wearing the same ’ats.
“Well, Mat got into the ’abit of dropping in for
tea reg’lar, because if one sister didn’t ask ’im it was
the other, and they were both all over ’im. They’d
sit on each side of ’im at the table, and Aggie—she’s
the girl what does the cooking at the ’otel —waits on
them. vShc were a thin slip of a girl with big eyes
like great dabs of soot in her pale, thin face, a mop
of flaming red hair and a red gash of a mouth.
“She used to flit around the table where they
was sitting, like that dragonfly on the far bank. Yer
knows, always on the move, but never far away from
the same spot. Of course, the other two women didn’t
see as ’ow she’d fallen for Mat as well. They was too
busy fighting between themselves.
“ ‘Try a little of this melon jam, Mat; I made it
specially for you,’ Mrs. Lewis would say —they both
called ’im Mat now, same as ’e called them Mabel
and Maisie —or, ‘I baked these scones ’oping you’d
stay to-night,’ ’er sister would smirk, ’olding the plate
out to ’im.
“ ‘Nice ’air that girl’s got,’ said Mat one night
after ’e’d watched Aggie running up and down for
about five minutes, and made the girl that nervy that
she nearly dropped a dish of mushrooms what
Maisie had got up early that morning to pick specially
for Mat.
“ ‘Do you think it’s nicer than mine?’ cooes Mrs.
Lewis, bending down ’er ’ead so that Mat can see
the waves what she’d made a special trip to the city to
’ave put in ; and Mat ’as to say as ’ow nothing could
be nicer than ’ers, and Maisie chips in with some-
thing about it being what's under the ’air what counts,
and all the time Mat’s watching the thin, red-’aired
girl.
“U/ELL, things get pretty ’ostile between Mabel
vv and Maisie. They take to buying all sorts of
new clothes and wearing all their jewellery, and
Maisie tells Mat about the car she’s thinking of buying
and the nice little ’ome she ’as in the city, and Mabel,
after saying as ’ow she thought it was about time
Maisie went back to ’er nice Tittle ’ome, tells Mat as
’ow a brewery traveller what had called in that
morning says that ’e reckoned she sells more beer
than any other pub for fifty miles around.”
The stranger had just finished making himself
another cigarette, and as he paused to light it he said,
“I thinks you’ll just about ’ave drowned that worm
by now. I’d put another on if 1 was you. They’re
not biting at all to-day.
“Well, if things ’ad gone along that way much
longer them two women would ’ave been at each
other’s throats, but it were Mat ’isself what brings
matters to a ’ead. One afternoon —it were Aggie’s day
off —’e lands in the bar with ’er in tow. ‘Fill ’em up,
Mabel,’ ’e says to Mrs. Lewis; ‘I want yer all to
meet Mrs. Robinson,’ and ’e takes the girl by the ’and
and pulls ’er out in front.
“Well, yer could have ’eard a pin drop in that
there bar. There’s Mrs. Lewis frozen stiff with ’er
’and ’alf reached out to the pump, and ’er sister
Maisie, what ’ad come running into the bar as soon as
she ’eard Mat's voice, standing in the doorway looking
as if she’d seen a ghost. Then, all of a sudden, Maisie
gives a little scream and turns and runs upstairs, and
everybody starts talking at once.
“Mrs. Lewis pulled ’erself together, but I noticed
that when Mat told ’er to ’ave a drink 'erself she 'as
a double brandy and charges ’im top price for it,
and when he calls ’er Mabel again she draws ’erself
up, ’aughty like, and says, ‘l’d ’ave yer know, Mr.
Robinson, I’m Mrs. Lewis to all but my friends.’
“Strike now!” he urged me excitedly. “That’s right
now, play it carefully,” he continued as the rod bent
under the strain. “It’s a beauty ; be careful it doesn’t
get away.”
When I eventually landed the blackfish on the
bank he said, “Well, what did I tell yer? Fish is like
men; they like something bright and lively better
than something what they knows they’d be better off
if they took. Just like I told yer about Mat and
them women,” and he tipped his battered hat on
to the back of his head and mopped his brow.
“But what happened to them all after that?” I
asked.
He grinned. “Maisie went straight up to her
room, packed ’er clothes and caught the train that
same night to the city, and she ’asn’t been seen in
Wongyip since. Mrs. Lewis is still at the Railway
’Otel, and Aggie is back there doing the cooking. Mat
cleared off pretty soon and left ’er. She ’ad the right
kind of bait, but yer see there’s more to fishing than
just getting the fish on the ’ook. Yer’ve got to ’ave
the right kind of ’ook and yer’ve got to play it
properly.”
... .and all the time Mat’s watching the thin, red-’aired girl.


"The Noble Art of Self-defiance”: Mrs. Parsley
By Harold Mercer
DRAWING BY ARIA.
i i HE noble art of self-defiance, as Mr. Slompack
f calls it,” said Mrs. Parsley, “may be all very
well in its way; but it gave me a shock when
I found out that the Ramplers, who was
Number 20, were surprise fighters—at least he was.
Very respectable people they had seemed when they
came ; and I thought he was a farmer down for a
holiday. It was only in the early morning, when the
place shook as if elephants were tumbling about in
the attic, that I found out.
“Very sheepish he looked in his unawares when
they opened the door, and she said something that I
didn’t quite catch, but it knocked me all of a heap.
“ ‘Well, if a great, big man like him wants to
play trains, I’d be obliged if he didn’t make so much
noise about it,’ I says, sharplike.
“ ‘Training, not trains,’ says he, and jerks his
thumb. ‘She makes me do it. I could do it at Jim
much better.’
“ ‘He’s fighting in the illimitation contests,’ she
says, ‘and I’m determined that he shall win.’
* “That started a regular argument between them,
him saying that he could do all his work, as he called
it, with this Jim that he knew, and her saying that
she meant to see he was fit. Perhaps it was because
I was relieved that they weren’t breaking the furni-
ture that I let them alone, but I was worried about
how the other tenants would take it.
“Mr. Slompack didn’t seem to mind at all. Quite
the contery. He said that fisticle fights were known to
the ancient Greeks, which didn’t depress me much,
because I haven’t got much time for them sorts ; but
he told me that if ever I went to the Art Gallery I
should see statutes like the Radiators and the Dining
Alligator, which he said were ripplers of statutes made
hundreds of years ago in Rome.
“Very interested he seemed. And so were the
other tenants. A lot of them got into the way of
going to the fights and talking about rights and crosses
and counters and hooks, which sounded to me like
shop fittings more than anything else. Mr. Rampler
became a sort of hero. But he didn’t seem to be very
keen about the fighting himself.
“ ‘lt was the missus who got the idea ofj, my
coming down and having a go, Mrs. Parsley,’ he
says. ‘I think I’ll be getting back soon. Farming is
my line, not fighting.’
“‘Go back! You’ll do no such thing!’ says
Mrs. Rampler, which she didn’t mind how sharp she
spoke to her husband. ‘His mission is Slugger Joe
Martin.’
“That seemed nonsense to me, Mr. Rampler
looking nothing like a clergyman.
“‘Why do you want him to fight Slugger Joe?’
asks Mr. Slompack, who happened to be there.
“ ‘lf he can beat Slugger Joe, he’s on the map
as a fighter,’ says Mrs. Rampler. ‘He’ll get some
real fights then —and big money.’
“ ‘l’d sooner be farming,’ says Mr. Rampler.
“ ‘But do you think he could beat Martin?’ says
Mr. Slompack.
“ ‘He will,’ says Mrs. Rampler. ‘And what’s
more, he’s going to give Slugger Joe the hiding of his
life. Slugger Joe deserves it. He’s a cad and a
mongrel.’
“‘I believe he is regarded as a rather decent
fellow,’ says Mr. Slompack.
“ ‘ls he?’, retorts Mrs. Rampler. ‘I happen to
know his wife and the way he treatecf her.’
' “ ‘lt’s nothing to do with me any trouble a bloke
has with his wife,’ says Mr. Rampler.
“ ‘You’re going to fight him, just the same,’ says
his wife. She was the boss, there was no doubt about
that.
“YOU never saw in your life the way the whole
* place got interested in that Mr. Rampler and
that there mission of his, as his wife called it. He was
getting on pretty well, and a lot of the tenants won
money on him, which made him more popular than
ever. Every night when there was one of the fights
the tenants would come in in a crowd, sometimes
with Mr. Rampler with them. The noise they made
you would think it was Bethlehem let loose.
“She was only a little woman, that Mrs.
Rampler ; and until she spoke fiercely you’d think she
was quite a little mouse ; but she did have that big
man under her thumb. She made him go off to see
his friend Jim every day ; and if he as much as said
he felt like having a glass of beer she snapped at him
so that he looked afraid of mentioning it again for
days.
“ ‘You ought to have a few shillings on Rampler,
Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr. Wassail. ‘He’s going to win
that illimitation contest. You might get a price if you
backed him now.’
“ ‘But,’ says Mr. Slompack, who was with him—
they were going out to see the fight together—‘l can’t
see him beating Joe Martin. He’s a good fighter—•
he’d be a splendid fighter if he liked the game. But
he doesn’t.’
“The women was as interested as the men, and
although Miss Perry said that surprise fights were
brutal exhibits, and couldn’t understand how Mrs.
Rampler could be so unwomanly as to urge her hus-
band on, that didn’t prevent her from having her bets
on Farmer Fred, as the papers called ’im.
“'THERE was one fight which was declared a draw ;
*■ and I pitied poor Mr. Rampler that night the
way his wife talked to him ; and his face looked as
if he’d been in an accident, too. I had to pass their
flat to tell Number 21 to turn off his wireless, which he
had going after midnight, and I heard her at it.
“ ‘You’ve got no ambition,’ she says. ‘l’m doing my
best to put your name on the scrolls of flame, and
you’re not interested.’
“A woman has come across from the ringside and is talking to Farmer Fred. Slugger Joe jumped to
his feet as if he wanted to object.”
“ ‘My ambition is to ’ave a good farm,’ he says.
‘I don’t want to be a chopping block in a price ring.
I wish I’d lost; then we could go ’ome.’
“ ‘You’re still in,’ she says, ‘an’ you’re going to
win. If you don’t, when we get ’ome I’ll set fire to
the farm.’
“Everybody seemed to think, after that, that Mr.
Rampler’s chances weren’t so good ; but he won the
illimitation contest. It was put on the wireless, and
I listened in, with me heart in me mouth at what
seemed to be happening to poor Mr. Rampler. I
missed the end though because there was some trouble
between the tenants in one of the fiats; and the first
I knew that it was over the tenants began arriving
home all excited.
“ ‘He won,’ says Mr. Wassail. ‘On points.’
“I didn’t think that Mr. Rampler was the sort
of man who would take points against anyone ; but
I was pleased he had won; and that night Mrs.
Rampler gave a party and everybody went in to con-
gratulate Farmer Fred ; but the poor chap was mis-
taken if he thought he could have some beer with
the others.
“ ‘Two glasses only, I said,’ says Mrs. Rampler,
taking a glass he had filled from him. ‘That’s your
limit; you keep to the soft stuff.’
“ ‘He’s got a big fight ahead of him,’ she says.
‘The fight with Slugger Joe has been arranged.’
< ‘ | T struck me there was something funny when I
* heard young Mr. Tebbutt talking to Mr. Oddson,
the s.p. man, who had got the habit of coming in and
out the residential as if he owned it. ‘l’ll have an
even quid with you that the fight with Joe Martin
doesn’t come off,’ he says. And when there was no
elephants in the roof in the morning it seemed fun-
nier still, although I thought Mrs. Rampler might
have given the poor chap a holiday. But the note
I found slipped under the door held the money for
another fortnight’s rent. Mr. Rampler said his wife
might stay on for a while, but he was going home.
“If ever a woman was like a lioness despoiled
of her pay it was that Mrs. Rampler. She had been
tired, it seems, after the party, and had slept in ; and
when she woke up her Farmer Fred had gone.
“ ‘Keep the flat; I’ll have him back in a few
days,’ she says to me ; and off she went too.
“When, after a week had gone by, the Ramplers
were still away, we thought that was the end of them,
though there were bits in the paper about the fight
between Mr. Rampler and that Slugger Joe ; and I
was wondering whether I could show people Number
20 when they came looking for flats, when back they
came. And the very next day them elephants started
bumping the place about again, and Mrs. Rampler
went off with him herself to see that he saw his friend
Jim.
“You’d think there was a gale a-day, as the
saying is, the night of that fight; in fact, there was ex-
citement for days ahead, for Mrs. Wassail said she
wanted a new hat to go to the fight in, and she made
Wassail feel that he wasn’t doing the right thing by
his friend, Mr. Rampler, when he didn’t want to buy
it; and everybody was on the pit-a-pat of excitement,
as the saying goes. A lot of the women went to the
fight, too, which in my idea is not the right thing. A
woman’s place is the home ; and heaven knows there’s
quite enough fight for most of them there. When
the time came, if you stood out in the passages you
could hear the wirelesses all on; and they was all
giving the fight. Everybody who hadn’t gone there
was listening-in.
“ ‘l’ll be glad to get it over,’ was all
Mr. Rampler had said to me about it; and
I kept thinking that he would be glad to get
it over when I heard what was happening
to him. But it was most aggravating. Just
when I wanted to listen-in people came,
one after another, knocking at my door,
for this, that and the other thing. ‘Farmer
Fred is down ; that was a beautiful right
swing connecting with the jaw. He’s tak-
ing the count, one, two, three,’ says the
wireless; and then someone comes knock-
ing at my door. But Mr. Rampler must
have recovered, for soon there’s roars of
cheering coming over the air. The next I
can make out clearly is that Joe Martin had
landed Farmer Fred a hit under the eye
which had opened a cut, and he was stag-
gering against the ropes attempting to
smother, though why he should do that I
don’t know. ‘The gong saves him,’ says
the wireless. It didn’t look very good for
my five shillings I’d had with Mr. Oddson.
“Then someone else came to the door.
I hurried back to the wireless, made more
excited by the roars I heard. I thought it
was that Mr. Rampler had been beaten ;
but the first thing I heard was ‘A woman
has come across from the ringside and is


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for “The Bulletin’s” Short Story
Competition are:—
First £7O
Second . . £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
His dead body, now very much alive, was wrest-
ling in the grip of Anne and Melgett, one of the local
doctors. And (hat it was inhabited by the soul of Mr.
P. Winch of Slaters’ Bay was obvious (to Peter
Wendle, at least) by its frenzied actions and shouts.
“1 refuse!” it screamed. “I’m a respectable mar-
ried man! I know all about the infamy of your
Darlinghurst flats! I’m not going to be put to bed by
anybody !”
“Now, now, Peter!” soothed Anne. “You know
you got a bad knock from a car! At the hospital they
thought you dead, but when I got there you’d come
to, a bit dazed, and wanted to go home. Now get
into bed.”
“No!” shouted the suburbanite. “Dash and con-
found me if you will!” Again the struggle started. In
the next lull the doctor whispered to Anne, “Perhaps,
Mrs. Wendle, an injection of morphine”
“Dope!” screamed the terrified Mr. Winch.
“You’re a pack of gangsters! I know your game—
dope me and go through my pockets! Help!
Police!” The doctor clapped a hand over his mouth,
but Winch bit him and carried on. “Stealing me lawn-
mower money! Robbing a respectable citizen of three
and six!” Just then he caught sight of Wendle stand-
ing in the doorway, and his fury reached a peak.
“Look at him!” he howled. “You gangsters!
Look at your confederate, dressed in my stolen suit! ”
He tore free from his captors, rushed at Wendle and
began to wrench at his clothes. “Off with my coat!
Off with my trousers!”
It was the last straw. Remembering the trouble
this man’s body and clothes had caused him in the
past few hours, Wendle lost all patience. He hauled
off and drove a vicious right to Winch’s jaw.
Wendle fancied himself as a boxer ; but if his
mind was the mind of Wendle his arms were the arms
of Winch. His blow was feeble, whereas Winch
had the trained muscles of Wendle’s body behind his
unscientific swings.
Amazed at this irruption, Anne and the doctor
watched while the brawl between the two frenzied
men (so strangely alike) raged round the flat. Orna-
ments and glassware crashed to the floor. But when
her favorite Chinese bowl hurtled to ruin, Mrs. Wendle
was at last goaded into activity. Grimly seizing a
heavy brass idol she cracked each combatant on the
skull in turn. They collapsed, stunned, in an untidy
heap.
Wendle was first to revive. He gazed round in a
daze, and saw Winch, once more the pallid suburban-
ite, lying unconscious beside him. Wendle staggered
to his feet and glimpsed his own face in the mantel-
mirror. All its prim leanness had vanished. In its
stead beamed the rubicund chubbiness of Peter
Wendle, commercial traveller, his original self.
In a flash he realised what had happened. Con-
cussion had reversed the earlier change-over. By some
strange spirit-bridge the souls were back in their
right bodies once more.
At that moment Winch came to. He struggled up,
gave one scared glance around, yelped and bolted like
a rabbit.
“Cheer up, folks!” bubbled Wendle gaily to the
doctor and Anne, who stood helpless with amaze-
ment. “You see before you Peter Wendle, in his
correct body and mind at last!”
“I don’t see,” retorted Anne angrily, the fate of
her favorite bowl still fresh in mind. “It’s easy,” began
Wendle. “First, the transmigration of souls”
“Delirious still,” whispered the doctor. They
seized their patient and bundled him into bed un-
heard.
So the explanation was not made. But Wendle
still hopes to do it. All hfe needs, he says, is a medical
encyclopaedia, a handbook of the occult, a clear
hour —and a padlock on his wife’s mouth while he is
talking.
talking to Farmer Fred. Slugger Joe jumped to his
feet as if he wanted to object.’
“I could see Mrs. Rampler doing it. Then the
fight started again ; I heard the man say that Farmer
Fred was looking quite fresh again, and was sailing
in. All that talk about rights and crosses, and right
lefts and fishhooks to the jaw, was Greek to me ; but
the crowd was roaring so much you could hardly hear
what was being said. And I could hardly believe my
ears what I heard. It was Mr. Rampler who was
doing everything now. He knocked that Joe Martin
down, and when he got up he knocked him down
again. It was not very gentlemanly ; but that Joe
Martin hadn’t been very gentlemanly either. And
then that count they had mentioned so often was
interfering again, and there was a roar ; and then, a
minute later, while I was still dazed wondering if 1
had heard aright, a tenant was knocking at the door
crying out ‘He’s won, Mrs. Parsley!’
4 never saw such a to-do. All the people who
had stayed at home came out of their flats to
talk about it most excited. They was still talking,
hanging about the lounge at the top of the stairs
when the others came pouring in. Such a scene you
never saw in these flats. Everybody was talking at
once, but they stopped to give a .cheer when Mrs.
Rampler came in hanging on her husband’s arm. And
then everyone started to congratulate them.
“‘l’ll be getting back to me farm now,’ says Mr.
Rampler, looking really happy.
“ ‘I suppose you’re happy now, Mrs. Rampler,’
says Mr. Slompack.
“ ‘No, I’m not,’ says she surprisingly. ‘Fred
should have punished him more than he did. He was
wide open in them last rounds, and Fred could have
given him the hiding of his life.’
“ ‘Aw, you don’t want to murder a man, Millie.
You only want to hit ’im to put him out,’ says Mr.
Rampler.
“ ‘That’s what you should have done —murdered
him. That’s what I told you to do,’ snaps Mrs.
Rampler. Mr. Slompack said she was a bloodthirsty
little wretch. ‘Well, I am, with a man like that. Fred’ll
have another fight with him, and he’ll hit him harder.
There’s some drinks in our flat if you people,
all of you, care to come up. Fred can have a few
to-night.’
“Mr. Rampler was the first to make a move up
the stairs. If it had been another time I wouldn’t
have allowed the noise to go on. But it finished
suddenly.
“‘Slugger Joe!’ cries Mr. Rampler, staring at the
door as if he’d seen a ghost. ‘Oh, come in, Slugger,
if you’ll join us in a drink.’
“And there was a man standing in the doorway,
looking badly knocked about, and staring ahead of
him.
“ ‘I didn’t come up for a drink,’ he says, slowlike.
‘I came up for my wife.’
“‘You got what you deserved to-night, Joe, only
not half enough,’ says Mrs. Rampler.
“ ‘I know you put this up on me, Millie,’ he says.
‘You got even. I’ve been wanting you back for years,
Mill—that other girl was only a fatal vaccination.’
“‘Here, what’s this!’ cries Mr. Rampler. ‘You’re
talking to my wife.’
“ ‘lf she is, it’s bigamy,’ says that Slugger Joe.
‘Millie, you’re my wife still. You didn’t divorce me.
And I need you. It was you built me up, Millie ; it
was you kept me down to my work. That’s what
put me in the fighting game.’
“He wasn’t taking any notice of Mr. Rampler,
or of any of the crowd there, which we mightn’t have
been there at all, we had become so quiet; some
had sneaked out past him. He was absolutely blub-
bering.
“ ‘I need you, kid,’ he says, ‘if I’m to get back to
my place in the game.’
“She stepped across the room to him sudden-
like, and turned back to Mr. Rampler, who was gaping
like a fish.
“ ‘Fred, I’ve got to go with him,’ she says. ‘He
really is my husband and —I loved him even when I
wanted to see him beaten.’
“Well, of all the nine days’ blunders, that was
the tenth. Her not being Mr. Rampler’s wife at all,
really, although he thought she was ; and her going
off with that battered-faced surprise fighter who wasn’t
half as good looking as Mr. Rampler. All he said
about the matter was that he was going back to his
farm, which he did next day.
“ ‘There are stranger things in heavenly earth than
are dreamt by our foolish Sophies,’ said Mr. Slompack,
calling me Horatio in that funny way of his. ‘Just
fancy a man wanting to be bossed about by a woman
like that.’ ”
THE GUEST-HOUSE
FARMER
BY LES ROBINSON.
THOUGH the city visitor is not supposed to know
it, and rarely finds it out, the small “farmer” in
a tourist centre whose farm has become a
boarding-house quite often hates the soil like
poison. Usually, though I don’t pretend to know why,
and, in all probability, neither does he, he has a large
and exceedingly capable wife, who, assisted or impeded,
as the case may be, by several equally large, if not
indeed larger, female relatives, runs the whole show.
His agricultural labors, though merely decorative and
subsidiary, and not meant, as a rule, to show a profit,
even though they may do so, accidentally, in very
favorable or inexplicable seasons, nevertheless pro-
vide the necessary if, in the opinion of experts, some-
what spurious atmosphere which the guest'from the
metropolis expects to find.
It is truly astonishing how numerous are the
seekers of agricultural enlightenment among indoor
workers while on holiday. More so, since the infor-
mation they seem so desirous, during those peaceful
and glamorous weeks, of gleaning, but in which all
the rest of the year they evince not the slightest in-
terest, is, for all backyard purposes, useless.
The guest-house farmer’s hobby may be s.p. bet-
ting, ice-skating, ventriloquism, stamp-collecting,
astronomy, music, the breeding of racing dogs—any-
thing at all, in fact, but almost invariably some pursuit
quite unconnected with guest-house husbandry. He
will listen politely, all the same, to your agricultural
theories, and, perhaps with apparent enthusiasm, even
propound a few of his own. Knowing full well that
you and many other visitors from the city will follow
him about and ask him innumerable questions he is
always primed to the uttermost with agricultural
theory. His countenance wears that entirely mislead-
ing expression of impassivity also utilised, when it
suits their convenience, by shellfish, landladies,
goannas, inquiry clerks, ticket-examiners and alligators.
, His outward appearance very often is strikingly
and to a romantic extent rural. If no hayseeds are
observable in his hair, whiskers or eyebrows it is only
because he forgot to stick any in that morning. City
folk, especially if old-fashioned, bumptious and
elderly, do not like their cherished notions of country
life ridiculed or refuted, and so well does the guest-
house farmer know this that, mainly owing to his un-
stinted efforts, they one and all go home feeling that
in so far as rusticity is concerned they have had
their money’s worth. He is, in fact, a pretty fair
psychologist.
The guests he finds most trying, though such
(acquired by long practice) is his stoicism and such
their complacence that they are never likely at all
to perceive it, are the corpulent, lethargic and talkative
kind who are not interested in golf, tennis, shooting,
boating, riding, fishing or any other diversions which
the neighborhood may afford, never read and don’t
seem to know what on earth to do with themselves.
So they follow him about for hours at a stretch, ques-
tioning him closely about anything at all he may
happen to be doing.
If the surface of the soil is so blistered by drought
that even the indigenous vegetation has, because it is
dead, ceased to be a nuisance, some city theorist is
bound to ask the guest-house farmer why he doesn’t
plant subterranean clover, which would, he hastens
to point out, be “pie” for rabbits. If the surrounding
trees are, for the most part, twisted and bent, some-
one else will advise him to “root them all out” and
plant straight ones instead so that some day they will
have a commercial value as clothes props. If the
g.h.f. happens to be trying, by good old-fashioned
methods, to get rid of the trees, another of those large,
lethargic men who follow him about and who seem,
perhaps because they lie down such a lot, to excel at •
thinking of easy ways of doing things, is very likely
indeed to ask him why he doesn’t provide means of
access by drilling holes in the tree trunks so that white-
ants could gnaw them down, thus saving him an im-
mense amount of axework.
It is obvious, of course, that the g.h.f. must have
some means of escape. As often as not the top floor
of a barn into which he clambers through a manhole,
replacing the lid after he has pulled the rope-ladder
up after him, proves a most adequate one. Reclining
there upon straw or hay, a pile of sacks, or an old
mattress, he can, secure from interruption, cease to
be informative and is enabled to relinquish as well,
for a blissful hour or two, any efforts he may regard
it as incumbent upon himself to make from time to
time, throughout the day and night, to be entertaining.
Nor is it any wonder that he is so often to be
seen roaming with apparent but perhaps deceptive
aimlessness about the city.


oughter hear ’em eatin’ radishes” —to an eyewitness’s
account of a hanging in which the prisoner’s head
was pulled off. There are the grinding monotony of
routine prison life and the means, comic and pathetic,
that the prisoners take to alleviate it; the discipline
and secondary punishments, the use of the Shelf and
other brutalities ; and, above all, the reactions of the
men’s minds.
It becomes clear that the United States prison
system is not brutal in its intention. Much money
and effort are spent not only to teach prisoners trades
which will give them an opportunity to earn their
livings honestly on discharge, but also to provide
them with relaxation. They have games, organised
and otherwise, a library on the spot and the privilege
of getting any book they want on loan from the
State library ; they are allowed to work at hobbies
and are, with some remarkable results, encouraged to
cultivate any gifts they may have. Flower gardening
and the playing of orchestral music are among their
chief relaxations.
On paper it’s fine, according to Castle, but in
practice it’s hell. The State’s good intentions go to
pieces in the face of human nature. The poorly-paid
guards—“gun-bulls”—are for the most part drawn
from men of low intelligence and brutal character.
Prison discipline preys on their nerves; they are
armed —and their word will be taken against a
prisoner’s. The least disturbance in the prison yard
and they fire indiscriminately.
Castle tells a shocking story of a negro boy—
originally committed for stealing from a garbage-tin
—who was literally shot to pieces for lighting an
illicit cigarette. Five other convicts were wounded
by stray bullets. The only guard who refused to
shoot at him was driven out of his job by his mates.
There was no inquiry.
The prisoners not only suffered any and eve,ry
pain and indignity from their guards without redress,
but even worse things from members of their own
ranks who managed to establish themselves as con-
vict bosses. These, through their spies and knife-
men, had powers of life and death. Many of them
made money out of different rackets, such as the
parole racket. An old hand would get hold of a
“fish,” or newcomer, pose as friend and suggest that
through a lawyer he knows he can work parole for
the “fish,” but, of course, there must be a little money
for expenses. The “fish” is strung on until his re-
sources are exhausted and then laughed at. He dare
not complain to authority for fear of being knifed.
High Authority is ignorant of the convict bosses, Low
Authority connives at their existence for the sake of a
rake-off.
Castle calls the whole American criminal code
before the bar. “America has the biggest prison popu-
lation of any country at any time of history.” “I
am convinced that the primary cause of crime in this
country is our law-enforcement system. It’s a tragedy.
It’s rotten to the core. Crooked officials, crooked
politicians, crooked attorneys, crooked Judges.”
There are too many laws, he continues, and a lot
of them are silly. For instance, in Connecticut, he
says, it is against the law to chew tobacco without a
doctor’s certificate. It is almost impossible for any
human being to live a week without committing an
offence which could bring him to prison, and it is in
the interests of the law-enforcement officers to get as
many convictions as possible. Men are sent to
prison frivolously, and prison turns them into
criminals.
Martyrs All.
It takes more than “literary” skill to make a good
novel. Josephine Lawrence established the fact that
she could write in her first novel, If I Had Four Apples.
She hammers the point home in her second, Bow
Down to Wood and Stone (Cape), but without pro-
ducing a really good book.
This is an exceedingly well-dressed production,
even and smooth. It is built around the idea —which
the author renders convincing—that women who
refuse to live their own lives and insist on sacrificing
them for others are the cause of half the misery in
the world. The theme is illustrated with 20 years out
of the lives of three sisters.
Gillian, the eldest, is 40, a plain, stodgy, over-
whelmingly good woman. She is secretary to a lawyer
who imposes on her conscientiousness, expects her
to shop for his wife in her lunch hour, and to return
to the office at any hour of the night or week-end to
pick up details that he h? r forgotten. She refuses a
better job because she fee. that he can’t do without
her and lives, in great discomfort, with helpless rela-
tions because she knows they need the money she
pays for board. Inevitably a younger, cleverer woman
thrusts her from her job, and she ends in a rooming
house lavishing her affections on a white poodle of
consummate selfishness. Gillian is the best of the
sisters and hurts no one but herself, though her con-
stant good deeds become an irritation, and a torment
to her friends.
Seneth is left a well-to-do widow with four
children at 38. She dedicates her life to the children.
For their sakes she refuses to marry the man she
loves and proceeds to wreck their lives with possessive
kindness. As they grow up they answer her excessive
demands for love with hatred, and finish wrecking
their lives to be revenged on her. She continues to
stick, however. At the last glimpse she is cooing un-
wanted instructions on how to bring up the baby to
her elder daughter over the telephone.
Brosia, the youngest and handsomest of the sisters,
is perhaps the most predatory. As a girl she was left
a good deal of money by an aunt and proceeded to
buy a husband, a young grocer’s assistant with a club
foot and an ambition to study medicine. She marries
him, pays for his studies, buys him a practice, pushes
him into specialising and success while all he wants
is a peaceful little practice in a rural district. At last
he revolts, and Brosia is left alone in her hollow
lacquered world.
These interlacing stories are obviously machine-
made to prove a thesis. They prove it up to the hilt.
What then? The book’s artificiality has robbed the
proof of all cogency. The characters are as syn-
thetic as the plot, but this is veiled from immediate
view by the bright fluency of the writing and the
naturalness of all the detail.
Miss Lawrence has a flair for brief description.
“The wealthy Mrs. Tracy had a round, convex face,
like a soup plate, on which her heavy eyebrows seemed
to float like crusts of bread.” This is smart, but it is
neither character drawing nor a substitute for it. The
characters are automatons, possessed and manipulated
by the author in the same way that Seneth sought to
possess and manipulate her children. Because of this
Bow Down to Wood and Stone provides a very
curious comment on its own subject matter.
On Foreign Affairs.
Anyone not surfeited with foreign affairs from
newspapers, radio and films will find plenty to engage
them in Eugene J. Young’s Looking Behind the
Censorships (Lovat Dickson). Though it has only
been a month or so out in its English edition, a great
deal has happened since it was written, near the end
of last year. Yet surprisingly little of it is either out
of date or contradicted.
A leading IJ.S.A. journalist, Mr. Young has made
a study of foreign affairs over the past 40 years. He
is now cable editor of New York “Times,” was New
York “World’s” war editor in the 1914-18 disturbance,
and has held other posts from which he has had to
keep an eye fixed on European happenings. There is
a quality of pungent humor in his style which, with
his clarity of statement, makes him easy and engaging
to read. He has downright views on the whole boiling
of nations, but shies away from wild and vague com-
ment. He takes on the job of condensing the policies
of all important countries into a chapter, and elab-
orates on it to show how they go about putting those
policies into effect.
He opens by describing what journalists sent to
foreign countries come up against in their new?-
gathering. Some countries have direct and active
censorships, which make it difficult to send out any-
thing, however true and important it may be, that is
at all unfavorable to those countries. Even in such
comparatively free countries as Britain, versions which
are either untrue or which conceal the truth are given
out when it suits policy. Such countries, however, are
mild offenders, and, generally speaking, journalists
working in them can get at what’s really going on. In
other countries the difficulties are so great that often
the truth does not get out till months, after the event,
if ever.
In Germany, “the peril to personal fortune and
safety may be put down as the least of the worries
of the newsman ; his greatest difficulty is getting the
facts.” Thus it was a long time before anything like
the facts concerning the 1934 “blood purge” of Storm
Troop leaders got out, and even now the number
killed off has to be guessed at. Mr. Young’s guess
is “hundreds” ; he explains the “purge” as a counter
to what was planned to be the “Second Revolution,”
which would have written good-bye to Hitler, if he
had not got in first.
As another example of what is accomplished by
control of information, Mr. Young quotes the famine
in the Ukraine in 1932-33.
In a desperate desire to get funds for its Five-
Year Plan the Moscow Government had stripped that
rich granary of most of its products and had sold them
abroad. The people found themselves without enough
food and seed grain for the next season. Many died
of starvation —how many has never been revealed. The
number has been estimated at from two to five millions.
Rebellions broke out among survivors. They were
suppressed by the secret police and by extensive mili-
tary operations. Scores of thousands were killed.
Yet the news of these horrors was kept from the
world for months. It was withheld from the closely-
watched correspondents in Moscow, and was not per-
mitted to seep over the borders... .The whole truth prob-
ably will never be told.
But in time some of the truth, at least, does get
out, and so Mr. Young is enabled to sift the essentials
of what, from his New York observation post, he
has seen happening in foreign affairs, particularly over
the past dozen years. He represents the American
who won’t have bunkum and boloney put over him,
and slashes away the frills of pretension from all
nations, his own included. His comment is caustic,
as maybe fits the topic, but he is a sane, rational,
logical writer, without any noticeable phobias or
prejudices, and his book is in every respect one of
the very best of the voluminous output of tomes on
foreign affairs, the total stack of which must by now
be high enough to be cluttering up Mars’s own door-
step.
Life at the Rectory.
Mary Rhys’s Scenes from Family Life (Country
Life, Ltd.) has a distinctive literary style, a quality
of character in the writing itself, especially striking
just now when the bulk of authorship is as uniform
in its absence of style as the shirt fashion of a totali-
tarian tribe.
Miss Rhys’s humor is of the rare gentle feminine
variety, quick and lively, but mostly kindly, very well
suited, as her general literary manner is, to depicting
life in an English rectory, with the head of the
menage conscientious enough to his parishioners and
clerical duties, very punctual at weddings, but much
preferring to be reading Shakspeare and the Greek
and Latin authors ; his wife, only occasionally rebel-
lious, but no more impatient than an Englishwoman
with a Welsh parson husband might be expected to
be ; their string of children, with a boy at the head
of the line, followed by an increasingly lamented
sequence of girls, but a boy to finish off with.
Miss Rhys represents their life from the point
of view of the children. The parishioners are scarcely
seen, being effectually shut out by the rectory’s hedges,
which enclose the menage, its garden and its bees like
a wall and moat. The children, spasmodically
crammed by the Rev. Gent. (Mr. Rundell) with Shak-
speare and the classical authors, speak a jargon made
up largely of classical tags and allusions. The author
makes her job more difficult by calling the children
by nicknames. This, with the jargon they speak,
makes them sometimes a bit tedious and generally
no more than puppets.
The character best realised is the Rev. Gent. The
children speak of him as the Rev. Gent., but walk
extra gently in his presence. In an early chapter there
is a fairly sympathetic picture of him, going along to
attend to the birth registration of the last son, after
mother and father, through long and sometimes loud
discussion, had finally agreed on the name David.
The Registrar’s pen halted in the air, Mr. Rundell’s
memory, never too good at the best of times, scurried
round like a rat in a trap, and then his round, rosy,
Alpine face cleared. “Hannibal,” he said blandly.
That morning he had been reading Livy’s Twenty-
first Book on the Punic Wars for not less than the
twenty-first time. .“And what she had against Gruffydt)
passes my comprehension!” he added under his
breath.
When Mrs. Rundell discovered that she had been
made the mother of a Hannibal, “That one-eyed
monster!” she would have fainted if she had not been
a strong-minded woman.
There is still a sympathetic touch in a depiction,
a little further on, of the Rev. Gent, forcibly feeding
his offspring op Shakspeare:
Mr. Rundell naturally grew impatient at their
stumbling mispronunciation of words and hashing of the
sense of passages, and the bland tones with which he
began a Shakspearean lesson would increase in pitch
and volume until he was barking out Shakspearean oaths
and Falstaffian imprecations.
But at an increasing rate the note of sympathy
for the Rev. Gent, vanishes, and the depiction of him
altogether is close to the bumptious household tyrant.
M rs. Rundell, on the other hand, has the author’s
sympathy all the way, and so have the youngsters.
The book, which has qualities above the ordinary,
suffers a bit from the similarity and even repetition of
its occurrences. Its finest chapter is one in which
the author goes outside the household altogether to
limn a vignette in pathos concerning a parish identity,
one General Shiner (retd.), working in collaboration
with one of the Rundell boys on the invention of the
Shiner Shell, which will shear limbs off the enemy
and incapacitate them, but never kill them. For this
good work they hang a box on the Shiner gate invit-
ing penny donations, which, however, the General is
forced to raid for other purposes. It turns out, too,
that the General is no general at all, but an officer of
much lower rank, permanently damaged by a window
fitting which fell on his head.
Oxford to Middleton Murry.
There are three easily recognisable types of
autobiographies: the dramatic, the chatty and the
judicial. The dramatic, of which John Cowper
Powys’s self-portrait is an example, are written by
men of genius compelled to hurl their personality
direct upon the world. The chatty are written by
distinguished people interested in politicians or wild
animals.
In the judicial autobiography, the writer evokes
scenes and conflicts from the past in an attempt to
distil their enduring values. Doris N. Dalglish, in We
Have Been Glad (Macmillan), embodies in her own
story the history of a generation at Oxford that was
engulfed in the 1914 war, and shows some of her
contemporaries emerging into Communism, some dis-
covering new consolations in religion, and herself
finding “some degree of inner integrity” in the flights
of Middleton Murry and the pacifism of Aldous
Huxley.
In the seclusion of Oxford, the preoccupation
with “movements” and self-conscious good works,
she portrays a world very remote from the Austra-
lian scene. There was her childhood, “cramped and
housebound” ; then Clapham High School, under the
influence of which at the age of 18 she was “ready to
condemn for an un-public-spirited slacker any con-
temporary who preferred staying at home or rambling
with a dog to playing hockey on Wandsworth
Common.”
Then came Oxford, a life of “biscuit tins, con-
fidences and teacups.” The war broke out, but her
Oxford felt it not so much as a catastrophe as some-
thing far off and incredible. “One term they saw a
man in his gown, and the next term heard that he
was in his shroud.” She would have to write to his
sister.
After the war there was a job in the Treasury,
some school-teaching, theorising about socialism, a
gradual leaning towards the thought of the Quakers.
Then folk-dancing and then Middleton Murry.
Psychoanalysis and new movements in literature
treading on the heels of a fuller realisation of what
the war meant had made the world utterly bewilder-
ing.
The book is almost purely devoted to intellectual
experience: the substratum of emotion, which must
have contained the material of a dramatic auto-
biography, crops out only in occasional phrases, in
the memory (how grimly feminine!) of the pink frock
she longed for as a child and never was given. As a
book of placid confessions and violent reticences it is
interesting as a picture—if not of a generation—of
an English type and a peculiarly English scene.


£
muam
cUw*
tka»¥
r
THE
r \
AT-
Si
1
H.
\
%
jr
X
*wr*»
OIL IS
■:*. Uiin / / / y
- -v. V\ ; i / f / .A
% \\\ \ \; i f/ / / /"
\\ •: \«r (i// / , ■
*%-
MOTOR
THE SHELL CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD. (Incorporated in Great Britain)
LO3B/29JX.


A gift in keeping with Yuletide. ..sen*/ your friends
df
in England a case of
FAMOUS AUSTRALIAN
WINES
For full information ring or Write to:
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
Interstate Branches:
King William Street, Adelaide. Collins Street, Melbourne. Sussex Street, Sydney.
Queen Street, Brisbane. Packenham Street, Fremantle. Crystal Street, Broken Hi .
London Office: Australia House.
SEPPELTS ARRANGE DELIVERY...No freight charges to pay!
The Wellington Arch, Hyde Park Corner, London.
Both at home and abroad, Seppelts’ wines enjoy a wide
reputation for excellence and purity. They are always
welcome . . . especially are they appreciated on any festive
occasion. What finer or more appropriate gift could you
choose for friends or relatives in Britain? A gift of a case
of Seppelts’ assorted wines carries with it the correct atmo-
sphere of good cheer and fraternity that symbolises the spirit
of Yuletide.
The cases are assorted, containing dry, still and sparkling
wines to your selection. Delivery is made from Seppelts’
London House; thus you have no freight charges to pay.
To each hamper will be attached a card or letter bearing
your personal message.
Prices commence at 36/-, and full details can be obtained
from any of Seppelts Houses.


DARING ADVANCE ON THE LEGISLATOR FRONT.
“Demanding ‘a drive for national efficiency and an advance on all fronts,’ Mr. Stavens has relieved himself of Treasury work and brought in a Parliamentary Allowances
Bill, dated back to July 1, which increases Ministers’ and members’ salaries by £14,000 p.a. Mr. Stevens himself will be entitled to another £14 a week.”
I % iK'' ■ . * •».


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon <£ Gotch (Amj.). Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscriber* in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
HITLER.
Two furious opponents of Hitler’s Germany whose
views are thrust upon Australians by daily news-
papers are Mr. Winston Churchill, a historian of sorts,
and Mr. Roberts, a professor of history. This is
strange, for the very angry gentlemen should have
learned from history that a people deprived of leader-
ship by foreign or civil war, and arrived at a situation
that has become desperate, is very apt to accept a
dictatorship. In fact, the English had a Hitler in the
seventeenth century.
The English Hitler, like the German, was some-
thing of an idealist and something of a fanatic. He
was abstemious, devout, patriotic, iron-willed ; con-
tinent also, although his relations with women were
the theme of slanders as sorry as the stuff retailed
by anti-Hitler gutter rags and radio blah-merchants.
His voice was described as “sharp and untunable,”
his eloquence as “full of fervor.” His health had
suffered in the wars.
The English Hitler surrounded himself with
associates very like Goring, Goebbels and Hess. He
added to the English dominions equivalents of Aus-
tria and the Sudetenland. Like Hitler he was a uni-
ficationist, and he treated Parliament more roughly
than Hitler has treated the Reichstag. When his rule
was challenged by members of his own party, he
dealt with them as Hitler dealt with the Rohm group.
His foreign contemporaries regarded him with
horror because he had killed his king ; “slain a god
at the altar.” But they did not go to war with him
on that account: unlike our Churchills, they recog-
nised that crusading was out of date. The first Charles
beheaded, he fought the second Charles, and would
have had him beheaded if the Stormtroopers of the
day had caught him. In Nazi Germany, as in
Puritan England, political prisoners condemned to
death are sent to the block.
Hitler has not recalled the head of the Hohen-
zollerns from exile, but he permits the sons to live
in Nazi Germany in the peaceful enjoyment of their
estates. Jews and Communists have found him ruth-
less, yet a Gray might pronounce him “guiltless of
his country’s blood.”
Cromwell died of malaria at the age of 59. He
was Protector for barely six years, and his son, who
succeeded him, lasted eight months. How long can
the Nazi system survive Hitler or the decay of his
faculties? He is 49 and a bachelor. No other Leader
can possibly command the devotion which has been
given to him, and which sustains him though he has
fallen out with powerful churches, as was the case
with Cromwell.
If Cromwell was necessary to the English—and
they have raised a statue to him at Westminster —
Hitler was necessary to the Germans. In the situation
in which they found themselves six years ago—their
emperors and princes gone, their countries dismem-
bered, their soberest people ruined by the wars and the
inflation and millions of them sonless, their Weimar
republic tottering—some form of dictatorship was in-
evitable. The National Socialist form triumphed over
the Bolshevik form because it was German, and
because the Nazis were abler and more resolute than
Thalmann and his Communists, who looked to
Moscow.
For English-speaking people, it is as impossible
to approve of everything that Hitler has done as it is
impossible to approve of everything that Cromwell
did. But in common fairness they should admit that
this man has given the Germans leadership—and we
have seen in Australia that good people hungering
for leadership will follow even a foolish and blunder-
ing Lang—and reunited them without going to war.
They should acknowledge also that the Nazi Gov-
ernment has tackled unemployment with greater cour-
age and success than democratic Governments with
immeasurably greater resources —the U.S.A. Adminis-
tration, for instance.
However unwillingly they may have accepted him
in the beginning, the German workers are now quite
obviously on Hitler’s side. The youths of Germany,
encouraged in part by his resolute expulsion from
men’s jobs of women who did not need to work —an
expulsion which the ladies accepted with charming
philosophy—have been his supporters from the be-
ginning. Mr. Menzies, no mean judge, was impressed
with the spiritual quality of the service which Nazi
Germany is getting from youth. He has been scolded
for saying this ; but without such quality there could
be no such service.
If it had come to war last month, the Germans
would have followed Hitler —there can be no possible
doubt of that. But it is equally clear that they did not
want war, and that no other people did. Hitler him-
self has said again and again that he desires a lasting
peace with the British and the French. The French
seem willing to take him at his word and to strive
for an understanding. Why shouldn’t we be willing?
Better that than incessant railing and a separa-
tion of Christian peoples into two camps, each pre-
paring for and thinking and dreaming of war. Such
is the destiny to which the bitter Churchills and arid
Edens summon the English-speaking nations. In
God’s name let the alternative of earnest negotiation
be tried! Let it be tried though it fails the first time
or the fiftieth time. If our statesmen build truly on
the foundations laid at Berchtesgaden and Munich,
they may even do something, by friendly representa-
tions, for minorities in whose fate they have a natural
interest.
One enduring thing Hitler has done. He has
hurled “world revolution” back to the steppes. There
will be no conquering march of Communists over a
world torn to pieces by “imperialistic wars.” The
Mighty Soviet War Machine has been shown to be as
incapable of conquest as the Russian Steamroller
proved to be in 1914: in various ways, but with strik-
ing unanimity, utter contempt has, in the last three
weeks, been exhibited for it by Germans, French,
British, Italians, Poles, Hungarians and —yes —Czechs
themselves. Incidentally, a horde of novelists, uni-
versity professors, League zealots, film-fakers, blah-
merchants, “Liberal,” Labor and New Tory politi-
cians, Hollywood Reds, parlor pinks, American and
Jewish reporters, angry editors and even bishops and
deans have been made to look ridiculous.
There had to be a showdown some day. When
it came the Cecils and Jordans ; the Dreisers, Sin-
clairs and Hemingways ; the lady politicians of West-
minster and Geneva and Madame Two-Blues; the
Litvinovs and their Leagues against Fascism and
War ; the “Cronk-News,” the “Daily Mirror,” “S. M.
Herald” and the Sydney “D.T.” ; the Haldanes and
Laskis and Robertses and Beasleys and Burgmanns
and Hewlett Johnsons and all the rest of the queer
allies had nothing in their hands.
At the Mercy of Cranks.
Not for the first time, alarmists are shrieking for
something sudden and drastic to be done about Aus-
tralian defence. They do not merely want it steadily
and strongly improved on sound and —most important
—continuous lines. They want it accelerated into an
avalanche that will have Australia’s life regimented
and its men clicking their heels.
The Commonwealth is facing unprecedented
defence expenditure. Before the present fit of hysteria
began, the Lyons Government had undertaken to
spend £43,000,000 on a three-year scheme. This
expenditure is unquestionably warranted. There is
warrant for doubling it. But there is no warrant for
doubling, or more than doubling, the pace of spend-
ing it, which is the idea of the alarmists.
Unless Mr. Chamberlain’s appeasement policy
succeeds in what it aims at and what its success to
date promises, Australia might have to find not
merely £43,000,000 to catch up on past neglect, but
£20,000,000 or more a year as a regular thing. If
hatred of countries like Germany is to be preached
as a national duty ; if we are to adopt the imbecile’s
doctrine that war with Germany and Germany’s ideo-
logical allies has merely been postponed by the peace
of Munich ; if we are to take it that we have been
thereby granted the opportunity of preparing for an
“inevitable” war —if this is to represent the state of
mind we are to bring to this long-urgent ordinary
national duty of perfecting our defence, then
£20,000,000 a year will prove hopelessly insufficient
Otherwise, there is no need for this hysteria.
There is need for a solid and progressive policy of
ensuring that the services are adequate, both for
defending this country against direct attack and
for co-operating with Britain and the other Dominions
in defence of the British Commonwealth or any part
of it. This is nothing new. It has always been a
prime necessity of national policy. It has been shame-
fully neglected in the past; but that is no reason why
the Lyons Government should allow itself to be
stampeded by jittering cranks into a hasty, and there-
fore inescapably a wasteful, splurge of unplanned
spending.
What is really the most urgent requirement in
our defence arrangements is that they should be estab-
lished as a solid, progressive, ordinary national busi-
ness, beyond the reach of all cranks, whether jittery
and belligerent, like the present bunch, or reactionary
pacifist, like the bunch whose views were put into
disastrous practice by the Scullin Government.
The Scullin Government, without question, put
Australian defence back a generation. It practically
abolished the excellent citizen army of 43,700. Even
the ludicrously small permanent army was hacked
about (its warrant officers were the first to suffer pay-
cuts) ; total defence expenditure was brought down to
barely £3,000,000 a year ; the general self-protective
impulse of the country was turned back and discour-
aged. For the whole of Australia there was a total
defence force of some 15,000 ill-trained troops, a navy
consisting of two pretty good cruisers and some second-
class junk, and a dozen or so obsolete ’planes.
That was not back in the Dark Ages, but the
achievement of 1929-32. There are aspects of it that
should not be lost sight of now or in the future. One
is that a Government destined to have the running
of this country for such a brief term had both the
power and the will to interfere in its clumsy fashion
in a matter which, especially in a country situated
as Australia is, should be sacrosanct. Another im-
portant aspect is that the will to thus halt and smash
Australia’s defence arrangements was not restricted
to the handful of already forgotten politicians who
surrounded a forcible-feeble Prime Minister.
The depression came ; and young men who might
have been usefully employed in learning how to defend
their country were thrown on a labor market that
could do nothing for them. Many have since been
condemned to do donkey work when they could get
it. Others have never had jobs.
Those “Down-with-Defencel ” days were the days
of “collective security” ; open season for the most
blatant, as they were the most misleading, cranks
Australia has ever suffered. The Scullidores were not
the only culprits ; they were egged on to do what they
did by Leaguers, who insisted that Australia needed
no compulsory training or anything of the sort: it
could securely rely for all time on the Covenant of
the League.
Such people and their nostrums had a widespread
acceptance —then. The pendulum of reaction comes,
and other people, shrieking a different line of nos-
trums, are on the job now.
Defence should for once and all time be now
established out of the reach of these cranks, both
political and private. The Lyons Government can be
assailed on a number of grounds —most easily of all
on its hopeless avoidance of a foreign policy that will
show some measure of consideration for Australia’s
peculiar needs and vulnerability—but it is spending
more on defence than any Government before it,
partly because one Government before it wrecked a
defence system that had done great service and could
have gone on being progressively advanced.
Like the cranks who now want to stampede it
into a sudden spectacular wasteful splurge of spend-
ing on a hundred hare-brained schemes, this Govern-
ment still will not face the vital issue of man-power
—the sane, sensible, permanently progressive and
continuous training of the splendid material offering.
Jt would never occur to it that a great service towards
the future could now. be accomplished by making
Spain and China the training school for a dozen
picked young Australian army officers, placed there
on each side in the capacity of observers for the
duration. The Ellington report showed that
R.A.A.F. squadrons are below strength, both in
officers and men, and deficient in flight commanders
and non-coms. The same is only too palpably true
of the land forces. Failure to face the vital issue of
man-power is the outstanding fault.
That apart, the Lyons Government has displayed
a steadily increasing regard for defence. Its expendi-
ture on defence has increased from year to year. This
is now nothing extravagant for the purpose. It repre-
sents both the measure of past neglect and a proper
appreciation of Australia’s vulnerability and value as
a prize. Steady and carefully planned advance along
these present lines, with correction of evident faults,
with remembrance of what a priceless asset a battle-
cruiser proved in 1914, is what is now wanted, not a
hysterical burst of extravagant spending.
At present defence is being yelled from the house-
tops under the impulse of a scare. This noise will
shortly die down; likely enough there will be
diametrically opposite reaction, which has happened
before. Above all, what is now wanted is that defence
should be put on a different footing altogether from
that which in the past has made its fluctuations
resemble a fever chart. It needs now setting up on a
broad and permanent basis —an accepted, established
national institution ; a fixture of a progressive kind
that cannot ever be torn down at the whim of cranks.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"A Drive for National Efficiency."
Ferhaps excited by hysterical “S. M. Herald’ leaders
on the German Menace, a Mr. Stevens bolted to a
national broadcasting station and there, in an unad-
vertised address to the people, demanded “a drive for
national efficiency, an advance on all fronts.”
Mr. Stevens spoke as Premier and Treasurer of
N. S. Wales. Within a few days his zeal for “national
efficiency” had prompted him to relieve himself of
the Treasury job and become Premier without port-
folio, just like Mr. Chamberlain. Mr. Mair was
named Treasurer. ,
A parcel of silly Reds and Pinks had started a
coal strike at a bad time. They claimed to have
£250,000 of “credits,” but, the money giving out and
the strike being unpopular, they “dropped their
bundles.” Mr. Mair, who was Minister of Labor
and Industry, obligingly covered their retreat, and
hence was straightway described as the Coming Man.
It was next discovered that Mr. Stevens and his
colleagues were underpaid. Mr. Stevens, it was indig-
nantly pointed out, had to rub along on a mere £35 a
week. Mr. Lang himself said that it was far too little,
and that he would “support an increase to-morrow”
it one were proposed. Thereupon it was discovered
by Mr. Lang’s opponents that Mr. Lang was under-
paid. On the subject of pay there is no party feeling
in the Macquarie-street talking shop, although on
most other subjects parties differ violently.
All this time Assemblymen —there are 90 —were
protesting that they couldn’t get along on their pay.
In his “drive for national efficiency, an advance
on all fronts,” Mr. Stevens gave this matter intensive
thought. The result was communicated to the lead-
ing U.A.P. newspaper and presented to the public
exactly a week after Mr. Stevens started his Drive, in
the spirit of Mr. Micawber making a Vigorous Leap:
Members of the State Ministerial party were ad-
vised yesterday of the Government’s intention to
introduce as soon as possible a bill to restore the
salaries of members of the Legislative Assembly to the
former level of £875 a year. The Premier has not
yet decided whether the salaries of Ministers will be
restored to their former levels, but it is possible that
they will be only partly restored.
The Premier’s indecision was brief. Within 24
hours “former levels” had been restored by a measure
—“passed through the committee stage without dis-
cussion” —which gave all hands “former levels,” as
under, and dated them back to July 1:
Old New
Salary. Salary.
Premier .. .. .. .. .. £l7lO £2445
Attorney-General .. .. .. .. 1486 2095
Vice-President, Executive Council .. 1018 1375
Nine other Ministers (each) .. .. 1390 1945
President, Leg. Council .. . . .. 898 1200
Speaker, Assembly .. .. •• 1217 1675
Chairman of Committees, Council . . 544 700
Chairman of Committees, Assembly .. 839 1115
Private members .. . . • • • • 670 875
“Former levels” were reached in loan-boom times
on the recommendation of a Judge who had already
become conspicuous for an exceedingly generous settle-
ment of a controversy at the public expense. “Restora-
tion” has been effected at a time when wool is below
1 Id. a pound, wheat is round 2s. 9d. a bushel at ports,
there is still drought over part of the land and the
effects of the crazy coal strike are severely felt.
So much for “national efficiency and an advance
on all fronts.” The public purse has been comman-
deered to do the “advancing” on the legislator front,
and Mr. Stevens becomes entitled to draw another
£735 p.a. for less work, and to collect £245 in what
is euphemistically called back pay.
The "Co-ordination" Required.
Dr. Earle Page has given birth to an idea for a long-
range plan “to ensure the continuity of our national
progress and defence, side by side with requisite ex-
pansion of our primary and secondary industries.”
The doctor visions “the spending of substantial
sums on defence equipment and industrial develop-
ment in its widest national sense,” mobilisation of
“Australia’s full resources,” “co-ordination with the
States to secure a procedure and determine the order
of priority of various public projects” ; and so forth.
In no wise exhausted by all this word-spinning,
and more, Dr. Page unfolded his plan to the Loan
Council at Canberra. He found the provincial Pre-
miers willing to “co-operate” in any “project” that
would give them heaps of loan-money for unem-
ployed-relief, but they were not greatly interested in
anything else, though Mr. Stevens talked a lot.
In fact, Mr. Stevens did as much word-spinning as
the doctor himself. Mr. Stevens declared himself “ready
to mobilise... .integrate... .allocate... .undertake....
and co-ordinate... .projects,” but he always came back
to the question of the dough—“we must be sure of the
co-operation of the banking authorities in a policy
designed to obtain and maintain full employment;
it is essential for us to know whether the Common-
wealth Government will accept full responsibility for
what monetary policy is necessary... .vigorous action
to support the money market.”
“The familiar Stevens cry for interference with
the Commonwealth Bank Board and the injection of
‘credit’ into the market,” said Mr. Casey drily; and
Mr. Casey was right.
It is to be hoped that this experience will shake
Dr. Page’s faith in “co-operation” and “co-ordina-
tion” and any other arrangement of syllables or words
which implies that government by seven Parliaments,
seven Cabinets, seven Cocked Hats and a multitude of
departments many of them overlapping—and boards
will be suffered by the Australian people for all time.
Of the hundreds of thousands of words talked and
written last week on the subject of defence, two
sentences only deserve to be remembered: the Prime
Minister’s statement that “defence is a Commonwealth
responsibility” and Mr. Curtin’s mention of unification.
The impudent attempt to thrust Mr. Stevens into
the Cabinet as -an authority on defence was resented
by all parties in the Commonwealth Parliament. It
would be a great thing for Australia if all parties
in the Commonwealth Parliament agreed to drop the
provincial Premiers and their petty politics and strove
for Australian union under one Parliament. Then
we should have defence, transport systems and ports
under one Ministerial control, as is the case in South
Africa, greatly to South Africa’s advantage.
Prohibitionists Fail Again.
National licensing polls have become as out of date
in Maoriland as they are in Victoria. Final figures
from that State show that the anti-prohibitionists just
failed of a 2-to-l majority over the prohibitionists,
voting being 721,095 to 369,008.
Maoriland licensing polls are held in conjunc-
tion with general elections. Three issues are put to
the people: National continuance, State purchase and
control and national prohibition without compensa-
tion. Votes recorded on the last four occasions were
as follows:
1925. 1928. 1935. 1938.
Continuance .. .. 299,590 373,692 521,167 501,420
State purchase and control 56,037 64,276 57,499 94,205
Prohibition .. .. 319,450 294,453 243,091 244,189
No doubt because a Labor Government is in
power, Slate purchase and control gained substantially
at the expense of both continuance and prohibition,
but the gain was not sufficient to warrant any hope
that there will ever be a substantial majority of
electors for State purchase and control. Most Maori-
landers would welcome a respite from licensing polls
for at least 10 years. During that period they will
have more important matters to think about.
Avoiding Break of Gauge.
•Unification of railway gauges has come up for dis-
cussion again, and a 4ft. line from Kalgoorlie
to Fremantle is proposed as a beginning. Westralian
Governments undertook to construct this length at
the cost of their State, conditionally on its getting
the Port Augusta-Kalgoorlie line, but it is now pro-
posed that the cursed Commonwealth should do the
job and bear the whole expense.
With 40-passenger Douglas aeroplanes soon to
be put on inter-capital runs, with 120-passenger
machines talked of in the U.S.A., and with commercial
road transport checked only by penal taxation and
other expedients of Transport Strangulation Boards,
unification should not be entered upon in a hurry or
a panic. Undertaken on the most modest plan that
has ever occurred to railway departments and Gov-
ernments, it would enormously increase the capital
cost of the mainland railway systems ; and, as it is,
they are all losing public money heavily. ■ In the cir-
cumstances, the troop-carrying possibilities of ’planes
and motor-vehicles should be considered, and the
Boock break-of-gauge equipment should be given
a thorough trial.
This consists of a dividing bogey which adjusts
itself within a truck-length to any gauge of line, auto-
matically unlocking on a simple rail breakdown-
gauge platform as it passes from one gauge to
another. It relocks on reaching the new gauge with-
out stopping. In a model single unit it operates effi-
ciently.
George JuliiK, himself a successful inventor, has
written that the Boock device is “the best I have ever
examined to bring about the unification of railways
at peppercorn cost,” adding that “its locking is posi-
tive and safe.” Other people who have seen the
model at work have been equally impressed. Rail-
way departments are not enthusiastic. Yet, if the
thing works, and if the rights are acquired for Australia,
it would be possible to save not only the vast cost of
unification but to sell the patent to other countries;
India, for instance —India has 30 breaks of gauge.
Mr. Julius again:
As chairman of the C.S. and I.R. I suggest that the
Commonwealth Government earmark £50,000 to have
this plan thoroughly tested in a practical manner by
railway engineers.
It is sound advice.
An Air Raid Could Scarcely Do More.
Mr. Bruxner, the N.S.W. Transport Minister, held
forth complacently on the reduction of road accidents
during a brief period, attributing it to his speed regu-
lations. Then, in the space of 36 hours, and within
70 miles of Sydney, road accidents caused 15 casual-
ties: six persons died and nine were injured.
For each of the deaths a separate accident was
responsible. One victim was an old lady of 75, and
another was a nurse; both were knocked down by
cars. • A third was a girl teacher who was in a car
that struck a telegraph pole. Nearly every kind of
rubber-tyred vehicle was involved —pushbike, motor-
bike, car, heavy lorry and fire-engine: the fire-engine
hit a car while rushing through a 30-m.p.h.-limit area
between Katoomba and Leura. In fact, eight acci-
dents took place in 30-m.p.h.-limit areas.
The speed limit has been tried and found wanting.
A stiffer license test might give better results. In
Sydney a drive round the Domain at 15 m.p.h., simple
exercises in braking and reversing, and negotiation of a
few hundred yards of not particularly busy street, all,
perhaps, in an old Lizzie, may be held to qualify a
driver for handling a modern 100-h.p. thunderbolt
with an intricate overdrive system, capable of doing
100 m.p.h. Also, perhaps, an ancient relic with smooth
tyres, defective brakes and no pulling power. Indeed
the situation calls for periodical tests of drivers and
periodical examinations of vehicles, with relegation to
the scrapheap of all caravans which have become
dangerous through age and neglect.
Melbourne's Sick Bays.
Last week 600 young women patrolled the streets of
Melbourne shaking money-boxes under the noses of
hurrying, and mainly indifferent, citizens. It was the
Lord Mayor’s Hospital Fund Week, culminating in
Hospital Sunday, when the drive for cash reached its
peak of intensity.
Meanwhile various significant things were hap-
pening. For instance, the Queen Victoria Hospital
committee announced that it might have to close a
section of the institution unless more money was
forthcoming ; it needs £34,000 p.a. to keep itself going.
Then an old lady who had suffered a leg fracture
had to be left in the casualty ward of the Prince
Henry for nine hours because no bed was available
there —or at the Alfred, Royal Melbourne or St. Vin-
cent’s. She was taken back to her son’s home at
Heidelberg, and finally accepted by a private hos-
pital at Ivanhoe, nearly 24 hours after her accident.
All the great hospitals have important schemes
for enlargement and development. Melbourne General
wants a new site altogether, the Alfred projects a new
block to house X-ray equipment and deep-ray therapy
operating theatres, the Austin is trying to complete a
new and necessary cancer ward, the Prince Henry
needs more beds (140) and St. Vincent’s is held up
over its extensions to the casualty department.
The Government has sentimental views about the
merits of private giving. It has a notion in its head
that unless the public is constantly importuned by
young ladies from Toorak to part with its hard-
earned pittance it will grow callous, selfish, hard-
fisted, indifferent. The reverse is the case. These con-
stant begging appeals tend to make it blasd. The fact
that collections are mainly in the hands of leisured
and wealthy young ladies is apt to condition the re-
actions of citizens who are neither wealthy nor leisured.
An ample and all-inclusive system of public
finance that would make a long-sighted hospital policy
effective is obviously called for. The Government is
equally obviously the public authority which ought
to take the responsibility for it. The Government
would not leave payment of Parliamentarians’ salaries
to voluntary subscriptions.
A Communist Congress.
The twelfth congress of the Australian Communist
party is soon to be held in Sydney, and the party has
treated itself to an expensively printed set of draft
resolutions which are to determine future Australian
policy. They start off with baits of shorter working
hours and cheap national insurance, and work up to
control of Australia as a “socialist republic” under
Moscow tutelage. Defence is to be taken from the
hands of “pro-Fascist reactionaries,” and foreign
policy is to be based on “collective security.”
Finally, this Congress draws attention to the grave
danger of counter-revolutionary war being launched
against Soviet Russia, the best defender of the interests
of progressive humanity. We declare that, if the
Workers’ Fatherland is attacked, it will be the duty
of every Communist, and the duty of all workers and
supporters of peace, to use every means in their power
to guarantee the victory of the Red Army over the
Imperialists.
But why should Australians “guarantee the vic-
tory”? So eminent an authority as Sydney “D.T.,”
of “positive-action-against-Japan” notoriety, assures
the world that “the Russian army of to-day will cer-
tainly be no less effective than the Russian army of
24 years ago.” r
The Making of "Criminals."
The N.S.W. police report for 1937 shows that of
125,791 police-court cases listed in Criminal Statistics
56,000 concerned minor breaches of Acts (108 Acts
are mentioned) and regulations. To break any of the
thousand regulations and by-laws of the Railway
Department, to pick wildflowers, to keep an un-
licensed dog or to forget to return a motor license
on its expiry results in additions to Criminal Statistics.
Motor-traffic offences are the most fruitful source
of convictions. Last year 85,206 persons were re-
ported for traffic breaches.
Punishment, we are told, is designed to engender
shame and repentance in the culprit and a resolve
to lead a better life. To persons penalised for having
left their cars ten minutes too long in the wrong place
or failed to read directions in the maze of one-way,
two-way and part-time-each-way traffic into which
Sydney has been divided, prosecution brings nothing
but a sense of irritation and of persecution.
Motorists have come to take summonses for
parking offences as they take measles or chickenpox.
A great number treat their convictions as perennially
recurring taxation. They plead guilty to “save time,”
their one desire being to get the thing over as cheaply
as possible. Meanwhile the youngsters in a “criminal’s”
office have seen him served with a summons by a
constable in uniform. They have heard him laugh
sardonically, and perhaps have seen him display the
document with the bitter pride of one who has joined
the Society of Martyrs. They hear him announce
his fine afterwards with the air of one who has been
robbed in the street. Very likely some feel that there
can be no shame in being pinched for more serious
affairs.
While multitudes of citizens were chivvied about
trifles 5700 “serious crimes” reported in N. S. Wales
in 1937 were not cleared up. The 5700 represented
26 p.c. of the serious crimes brought under police
notice.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T.”: Americans accuse Wilkins of
being a limelighter. He didn’t give that
impression on his recent visit to his
native country, which he nowadays visits
so rarely, being noticeably modest in his
public utterances. But Durban reports
that he travelled from Melbourne to that
port as “Mr. H. George” ; Cape Town
mentions that on arrival there he “de-
clined to be interviewed”; and Perth
recalls that when old Major-General
Hobbs was buried the largest card
noticed by those who examined the
flowers bore the inscription “From Sir
Hubert Wilkins.” This odd South Aus-
tralian insists that Polar exploration has
a wonderful scientific side, and wants
Australia to help in establishing 15 (or
is it 50?) meteorological stations in the
Antarctic. Shackleton, who was frank-
ness itself, admitted that the scientific
value of his expeditions didn’t amount to
a row of pins, and Sydney’s own Mares
has suggested that the 15 (or 50) Antarctic
meteorological stations would be worth
about as much.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The National Gallery of
Adelaide has had a small burglary, a cup
of historic interest and gold coins being
the only things taken. The police picked
up some of the coins at a dealer’s at
once, and a man of 49 in Melbourne a
few days later. He admitted the theft,
but made the defence that he was too
drunk at the time to know what he was
doing ; but he had shown cleverness in
breaking in, admitted three convictions
in America, and got four years.
* * * *
“Miro”: It’s not only their own press
notices that celebrities have the privilege
of writing (B. 19/10/’3B), as witness this.
I called on a reporter friend in a M.L.
newspaper building, and while waiting
had an uninterrupted view of a local
celebrity perusing with deep interest and
occasional amusement a printed sheet.
At intervals he seized a pen and scribbled
energetically on a pad, or ran the pen
through some unwanted lines. “That’s
Sir Tobby Pobble correcting his obitu-
ary,” explained my cobber on arrival.
“He’s eighty-six, and we have to keep
it up to date. He comes in just to put
it right on dates and so on, and says the
only thing wrong with it is that it’s too
flattering.” But from the pleased expres-
sion on the old gentleman’s face it was
evident his mind was at ease concerning
the view posterity was to be given of him
and his works.
* * * *
“Runa”: Maoriland musicians, backed
by visiting celebrities, have been
prophesying a big future for the ten-
year-old violinist Alan Loveday, and the
infant phenomenon himself the other
day gave evidence of a flair for pub-
licity that should be of immense benefit
to him in a celebrity career. In staid
Dunedin he climbed on to a ledge four
storeys above the street, and nonchalantly
strolled the full length of the foot-wide
path. Then “acknowledging the interest
of apprehensive spectators,” he made the
return journey to a distracted mother
“with easy confidence.”
* * * *
“Marmalade”: Was putting the local
Scout troop through an intelligence test
the other night. Knowing the difficulty
of gauging a period of time with any
degree of accuracy, I pulled out my
watch. “Sing out when you reckon the
second hand has travelled once round
the dial,” I invited. One youngster’s
hand shot out, a half second before the
minute was up. Challenged, he did it
again. “Easy enough when you know
how,” he grinned. “Dad’s a cow cocky.
Us bigger kids have to crank the sepa-
rator. She turns at sixty revs, per
minute. Dad swears he can tell by the
sound directly the speed slackens.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: “What would a wise and just
husband have done?” was a question
Justice Lowe had to decide in the Mel-
bourne Practice Court the other day. The
husband was a wealthy country store-
keeper, deceased, who had, according to
the widow’s evidence, hastily married her
and then taken her to England to have
“Can you describe him , madam?”
the expected baby which was born six
months afterwards. Obsessed with terror
of what society would think of him, the
father got rid of the child in some way.
Subsequent married life was of the cat-
and-dog order, and finding conditions
intolerable, the wife left her home. The
husband projected his hate beyond his
death by leaving her out of his will.
The law in this case threw its weight
against vindictiveness, and Justice Lowe
ordered the estate to pay a small annuity
to the widow. As to the original cause of
this fantastic drama, the baby, ’Sonah said
there were no human means of ascertain-
ing what had happened to it.
* * * *
“Rekab”: Yes, “Mac Hoots,” crowds
do sometimes shout the sort of things the
dailies say they do (B. 12/10/’18). I
have heard an Australian crowd cry
fervently “Thank God we have a Navy.”
It was at a military display held in
Centennial Park, Sydney.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: An account of the death of
the young Englishwoman who found her
mother’s body in their fashionable Syd-
ney flat —the mother had died of cerebral
haemorrhage—says that “Miss Tempest
had been ill after slimming treatment,
and may have taken an overdose of a
sleep-producing drug to counter the
nerve-shock.” Another report asserts
that her illness was of long standing.
Whatever the truth, it is by no means
rare for girls to be “taken ill after slim-
ming treatment.” Some become nerve
cases; others, mental cases. Adelaide
was recently alarmed at the high propor-
tion of incipient t.b. among local girls—
possibly another consequence of “slim-
ming treatment.” Of all the silly crazes
that young women have gone in for
since we emancipated their sex by giving
them the vote, slimming is surely the
silliest. It was launched upon this age
of mugs by Hollywood film-makers who
had undernourished girls on their hands,
and their sisters throughout the world
followed it like sheep. And these irra-
tional and attenuated females can’t even
plead that they slim to please the men.
No marriageable man ever looked twice
at a skinny stranger.
* * * *
. “Pawang”: With the return of the
Greatest Show on Earth, Melbourne is
hearing again wails about the cruelty of
training dumb animals. Similar allega-
tions were made some years ago when
an animal act turned up at the Palace
Theatre. Preferring conclusions drawn
from experience I went up to the Palace
and interviewed the trainer in question
backstage. I found him fondling a baboon,
and both were in a genuine state of virtu-
ous indignation. To prove that he and
his ape were pals, he handed me a stick
and told me to make a pretence of hitting
him with it. I followed his instructions;
the baboon instantly made a terrific leap,
and my bacon was saved only by the
fact that the chain was a stout one. The
trainer then started his turn, and I
watched from the wings. After the
baboon had done its piece its owner
released it and began to put some mon-
keys through their paces. Presently the
red eye of the baboon lighted on me, and
he made a beeline in my direction. See-
ing my predicament, the trainer sidled
over, patted me on the shoulder and
whispered “Keep quite still and he won’t
hurt you.” I always take the advice of
experts, and stood in a cold sweat while
a nose attached to a mouth like a steel
trap sniffed up one leg of my trousers
and down the other. Deciding I was a
friend of the boss, the baboon left me
at l ast -
* _ * . * , * ,
C.Q. : Touching street photography
(B. 12/10/ 38). In the days when Mel-
bourne’s environs were being cut up into
desirable residential sections, T. M. Burke
had a show window in his Queen-street
premises. A photograph being required
for advertising purposes, it was decided to
take a flashlight after dark. The camera-
man set up his apparatus, and one of the
office men stood by ready to fire off the
flash. There was a burst of flame, an
uprush of dense vapor, and the photo-
grapher pressed his bulb. At that
moment the celebrated Bible Joe, com-
plete with Bible and beard, walked into
the field of vision. Joe evidently thought
that the event he had been predicting all
his life had come to pass, and that the
end of the world was imminent. For
a man of his years he made tracks with
surprising celerity.
v ** * *
“Cauboy”: Publicity in Melbourne
concerning the stage play “The Women, ’
opening this week at the King’s, recalls
the excitement occasioned by “Cradle
Snatchers” at the same playhouse in pre-
talkie days. In “The Women” one of
the actresses takes a bath in full view
of the audience, and this, according to
the puff writer, will set playgoers talk-
ing. The theme of ‘‘Cradle Snatchers
was not bathing but seduction, and the
seducing was, of course, done offstage,
Nevertheless, there was considerable
public outcry, and General Blarney, then
Police Commissioner, was deputed by the
Ministry in office to have the scandal
looked into. He sent a sergeant and a
constable, who were accommodated in the
circle, where they set out to take copious
notes. But before the first act was over
they were nearly rolling out of their seats
with amusement. Commissioner Blarney.
who also had seen the show, subsequently
reported that he could see no grounds
for.police action,
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Touching the leakage of
important military secrets (B. 12/10/’3B).
During Armageddon an army of censors
moved into the Australian cable office in
which I was stationed. Extraordinary
precautions were taken to prevent the
cable staff from obtaining information
from the censors, although practically
all the censors’ own sources of informa-
tion were the cablemen, who were the
only individuals capable of reading the
telegraphic signals which the censors had
to handle after they had been translated
for them. One evening an assistant
censor, shaking as with the ague, came
into the instrument-room and said that
a High Authority from Melbourne had
arrived to inspect their outfit and a most
important file was missing. A frenzied
search was in progress when somebody
thought of the charwoman. She was hur-
riedly sent for, went into the chief
censor’s room and, raising the window,
scornfully lifted the missing file off the
s iH ? where she had deposited it in the
course of her early-morning operations,
By raising himself slightly on a railing
a passer-by could have had access to
the important documents,
* * * *
“S.”: What do the Americans mean
by letting their most celebrated statue
gj ve Nazi salute? Globetrotting
down pitt-street, Sydney, I spotted a
poster of N’Yark’s Statue of Liberty, and
doggone me if that rear i ng righ t arm
mightn’t have been any adoring Frau or
Frdu i ein from Berlin. The only differ-
ence was that t he arm, as one would ex-
pect in Ame rica, was pushed a little
higher, and the hand was holding some-
thing symbolic like a bottle or a bunch
Q f rad j s hes.
* * * *
, , .„ ... , c
. Wang-Madn : Westral,an professors
obviously haven t lagged behind their
fellows in the Eastern States in t e
matter ° f mak '»« ca P ltal out of
newspaper writing and broadcasting
Troy, W.A Minister for
Lands, told the Leg. Assembly lat I •
1 f , eel he S f tate 15 “t getting an ade-
quate return for expenditure incurred on
the University. Some of the professors
are giving too much time to broadcast-
ing and writing for the newspapers,
There is a general feeling in the com-
munity that the activities of these people
are not directed in the manner for which
the State pays them.
A MOMENTOUS QUESTION.
“Questions of etiquette with regard to the forth-
coming royal visit are already worrying Americans.”
This world of ours has never had since Adam
turned his back
On Eden quite so many nuts awaiting it to
crack,
So many fruitful topics for impassioned argu-
ment
From sturdy acquiescence unto furious dissent.
In stately Parliamentary halls, in club and pub
and flat,
Is hot debate about the rights and wrongs of
this or that,
And gloomy speculation touching what the fates
design
For devastated China and distracted Palestine.
In Europe men sleep ill o’ nights. No nation
dares to cease
The piling up of armaments as sureties for
peace.
But that’s the only subject upon which they
all agree.
Except for this lot homines and quot senten-
tice.
And even poor old Uncle Sam, he has his
troubles, too,
Though to the strife of Wets and Drys he’s
bid a long adieu.
It isn’t Prohibition’s jolt nor yet the New Deal
now
That’s putting stress upon his soul and furrows
in his brow.
He has a knottier problem in his brain-box to
revolve,
A quite unprecedented point of etiquette to
solve.
From east to west the land is torn with con-
troversy keen
On whether Mrs. Roosevelt should curtsy to
the Queen!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“D.E.”: At the Maoriland election
which was so disastrous to his party,
Oswald C. Mazengarb stood as National
candidate for Wellington Suburbs. Dur-
ing the last week of the campaign he
complained that opponents had twisted
the Oswald to “Ossiepoff,” and insinu-
ated that the Mazengarb was like a char-
acter from a Le Queux novel, mysterious
and foreign. Actually, he explained, the
Mazengarbs were Huguenots who, in
Charles the Second’s time, in association
with other Huguenots, drained and re-
claimed part of the Fen country, and had
lived in Essex ever since. He himself
had been born in Australia of Aus-
tralian-born parents, and had been
brought up in Dunedin “to learn self-
reliance, thrift and independence among
the Scotch folk of Otago.” Evidently
Oswald’s detractors continued to call him
“Ossiepoff” ; anyway, he was beaten out
of sight.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The showplace of Sheppar-
ton’s (Vic.) centenary is a little cottage
in Welsford-street. It is where “Tom
Collins” (Joseph Furphy) wrote the
manuscript which Archibald, of The
Bulletin, encouraged him to make into
that Australian classic Such Is Life.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: By enacting that only
registered nurses shall wear the kind of
headgear that qualified nurses are ex-
pected to wear, Queensland’s wholly
male Parliament has landed itself on
the notoriously dangerous path of
sumptuary law. The latest essay is
directed against assistants in shops,
dentists’ and doctors’ rooms and the like
who wear .nurses’ (or nurselike) caps.
There are at least a dozen kinds of
dinkum nurse lids already, and unless
Minister Hanlon regulates pattern to
microscopic detail even a woman
couldn’t tell crook ’uns from the real.
And suppose Paris ukased a new nurse-
hat?
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: An American
has undertaken the ambitious job of de-
bunking King Solomon as a fount of
wisdom, and it rather looks as if another
of our lifelong beliefs is about to be
upset. Describing the Hebrew monarch
as the first of the copper kings, the critic
(he is a parson) points out how he de-
veloped the rich outcrops of iron and
copper in the country south of the Dead
Sea by raising levies of forced labor to
w.ork the mines. These slaves were kept
in walled compounds, whose founda-
tions are still clearly traceable, and there
was no foolish softness in the way they
were encouraged to get results. Solomon
traded the yield for gold, and entered
on a career of exploitation and boom in
the best dictatorial style. In the end he
ruined the Hebrew kingdom, which broke
up when he died. Personally, I’ve
always thought that Solomon would have
made a terrific hit on the stage—and
more so since the cinema was invented.
# * * *
“Nakh”: Tell “Vieux Marcheur” (B.
12/10/’3B) that my assertion concerning
the tastiness of fox was not made with-
out authority. The Melbourne chef who
performed what seems to “Vieux Mar-
cheur” a miracle was the well-known G.
Gaillon, of the Cafe Raoul. He was suc-
cessively chef to the famous Marguery
in Paris, in Moscow for six months
learning the Slav cuisine, at the Savoy,
“It looks like the mange to me.”
London, at the Hotel Australia for 12
years (where he successfully inaugurated
Australian a la carte) and then at Men-
zies for six years. Those are some of
his credentials as a cook, and here is
his fox recipe: Skin and wash young fox,
cut it into pieces 3in. square, put it in
basin with glass of good brandy and
equal quantity of olive oil, salt, pepper
and onions; cover with claret and soak
for two days. Slice and fry bacon in
butter and drain; in same butter fry
small onions, add flour and cook the
roux gently until quite brown, put fox
into roux and bake in oven for 10
minutes. Then add wine used to
marinate it, add thyme, bay leaves and
garlic and cook in moderate oven for
2j hours.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Talking of railway trestle-
bridges, one of them was used dramati-
cally by Grant Allen, a fine but almost-
forgotten novelist. The hero was out
on it at night, somewhere in Northern
Africa, when a train came along. He
lowered himself through the sleepers and
hung by his hands till the train was
safely over, but the engine at once came
back again, shunting. When he was won-
dering if he could hold on any longer,
the locomotive settled the question by
shedding hot ashes on to his fingers, so
he had to drop into the river.
“Shorus”: “O’Heck,”
who challenges the poeti-
cal view about the
silence of the bush (B.
5/10/’3B), would get a
sympathetic hearing from
a Maoriland M.P. who
some time ago felt the
urge of the simple life.
Declaring he had found
just the place he wanted,
he set off one vacation
for a small isle in the
Hauraki Gulf, and,
arriving in the evening,
revelled in the silence,
broken only by the sound
of the sea. At 3 a.m. he
was awakened by a ter-
rific commotion, which
resolved itself into at
least a hundred scream-
ing seagulls a few yards
from his window fight-
ing over a large dead
fish. The homestead
dogs joined in, ducks on
a lagoon near by
quacked sympathetically,
cows and sheep began
their matutinal calling,
thrushes with shrill notes
piped in the garden, and
the barndoor fowls did
their bit enthusiastically.
The distracted politician got no sleep
after this awakening, and in three days
was reduced to exhaustion by a daily
repetition of the commotion, with small
variations. He left on the fourth day,
reconciled to a peaceful city life.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: There is something curi-
ously unnerving about a public clock
that’s gone wrong. Ever since I tried to
boil an egg by a post office timepiece
that had stopped I have realised that our
whole existence is kept in order by the
ticking and chiming of clocks, and the
ones set in public places should be as
infallible as dictators. No wonder people
objected to the reform of the calendar
in the Middle Ages, and no wonder, when
Maoriland introduced summer time, there
were diehards who demanded a return
to “God’s own time.” So that even if
nothing else is ever done about the
shambles at Sydney’s Circular Quay I
wish someone would fix the Customs
House clock that’s been telling me I go
to lunch at 9.50 in the morning, and I
wish someone would put the boot into
that madder clock at Woolloomooloo
that thinks it’s always 10 minutes to
12. Sydney’s prize example, of course,
is the clock tower they forgot to
put the clock in; but that’s over a
Government department building, and I
suppose they don’t need a clock there
to tell them it’s time to stop working,
“Archy”: Recently married at Byron
Bay, a young Australian, Agnes Eileen
Tilghman, carried a lot of English and
American history with her bridal train.
She is a lineal descendant of William
Tilghman, lord of Canterbury Manor
when Bill the Conqueror arrived in 1066,
the former William being one of the few
Saxons who were not dispossessed by the
invading Normans. Another forebear
was Whitenhall Tilghman, who enter-
tained Queen Bess in 1586. Her Majesty
was much taken with his napery, so
much so that she commanded him to
make her a present of the lot. The effort
cost him over £BOO in Elizabethan money,
or well over £7OOO Australian. Whitcn-
hall Tilghman's grandson was that Dr.
Richard Tilghman, surgeon-in-chief to the
armies of the Commonwealth, and friend
and confidant of Oliver Cromwell, who
emigrated to Maryland in 1659. Richard's
great-grandson, Laud Tench Tilghman,
was a nephew on his mother’s side of
Sir Philip Francis, reputed author of the
“Letters of Junius.” Laud acted as
confidential secretary and aide-de-
camp to Washington throughout
the War of Independence, and car-
ried the news of Cornwallis’s sur-
render at Yorktown to Congress at
Philadelphia in October, 1781. A
brother was for many years
Attorney-General of Pennsylvania,
and is still regarded as one of
America’s leading jurists. One of
Eileen’s great-grandfathers repre-
sented the U.S’A. as commissioner
at the Garden Palace Exhibition
of 1879, being for many years Gov-
ernor of Maryland and a U.S.A.
Senator.
“Sailor Once”: The 90-ton schooner
Henrietta, which arrived in Sydney
recently from Cape Cod (U.S.A.), called
at Juan Fernandez, Robinson Crusoe’s
reputed home, en route. The vessel’s
amateur crew reported having discovered
there but one aged German, living a
hermit-like existence and lord of all he
surveyed. Doubts have been cast on poor
old Robinson Crusoe’s stay in these par-
ticular islands. Old salts, with the assis-
tance of bearings taken from Defoe’s
best-seller, can prove conclusively, if the
beer lasts out, that Selkirk spent his exile
on a West Indian island somewhere in
the Caribbean Sea. On the other hand,
an ancient tome in present writer’s
possession, referring to a time before
Alexander Selkirk’s birth, states defi-
nitely that some castaway lived there? for
four years and four months—which was
the term of Crusoe’s exile.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Surely the preoccupation of
poets with different portions of the be-
loved’s anatomy (B. 12/10/’3B) is not so
much a question of the ease or difficulty
of finding rhymes for them as of asso-
ciations. The associations surrounding
chins for one poet may be quite different
from those surrounding chins for another.
But it is not only poets who are subject to
the influence of associations. For one
man a pub is the symbol for fulfilment;
for another a club is. For a girl a dance
palais may be the symbol for fulfilment;
a beach picnic for another. Whether they
can attain to fulfilment along the lines
of their associations is another matter.
Shakspeare in his sonnets sang paeans of
praise to the various features of his be-
loved. But when she went off with a
younger poet his tune changed com-
pletely. He saw black wires growing
out of her head and found her breath,
to put it mildly, most unpleasant.
“Damme, all y' want neow ez parson 'n' a few flowers, y' lazy louts!”
TO A TORTOISE.
Ihe latest acquisition by the Sydney Zoo is a
tortoise from the Seychelles, believed to be at least
200 years old.”
O longest-living of all things created
Inat Lather Noah took aboard the Ark,
Here s to you, from the far Seychelles trans-
lated
To focus wonder and excite remark
improbably, one hopes, be fated
fo break fresh records at Taronga Park
Tor length of years upon this mundane stage
And all that appertains to green old age!
Iwo centuries and a half you've seen, it's
reckoned.
How strange to think you may have been
on deck
When doomed Argylc was to the scaffold
beckoned
And graceless Monmouth got it in the neck,
And when incorrigible James the Second
Involved his dynasty in hopeless wreck,
And William of Orange led the way
lo liberty and kingship from Torbay.
You lived, mayhap, ere Dampier made entry
Into our western seas so wild and rough
(And various other buccaneering gentry
Abode their little hours and did their stuff);
You antedate by more than half a cent’ry
'Cook’s very birth. And that should be
enough,
That in itself alone, to render you
A star exhibit at our Sydney Zoo.
It grieves me that no words may pass between
us
Of all I fain would know and you might tell
About the years wherefrom Time’s curtains
screen us,
Nor any sound come from that domelike
shell,
The footstool once, so poets sang, for Venus.
But none the less, old man, 1 wish you well
(Or should it be old girl?) in these new ways
Assigned you for the evening of your days.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


J
CRAVENA
turn Vftoiet- tket/be,,
aktofs smctthffiesft!
10 for 9d 20 for 1'6
(UuMf
MADE
PREVENT
THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
N.S.W. Ministers and Assembly mem-
bers are giving themselves more pay and
dating the gifts back to July 1. “For
Ministers, £23,420 a year has been appro-
priated from Consolidated Revenue” ; for
officers another £4690 p.a. has been
“appropriated”; for members enough
has been “appropriated” to raise them
from £670 to £875 p.a. No, there’s no
misprint.
Melbourne “Argus” dropped into
poetry last Thursday—someone else’s
poetry:
God give us men! A time like this
demands
Strong minds, great hearts, true faith and
ready hands.
The prayer remains unanswered, but
“ready hands” were in evidence in the
N.S.W. Assembly that day. They were
thrust out, palms up, for another £14,000
p.a., a third of the first year’s instalment
being for self-voted rises dated from
July ].
Home-consumption-price legislation is
going through the Sydney Parliament.
For many wheatgrowers in N.S.W.,
Victoria and Westralia such legislation
is already useless. Drought is their trouble,
and no fancy plan for making bread
dearer nor any fancy argument that it
won’t be dearer can do them a bit of
good.
Another Glorious Press campaign has
crashed. This time Stevens was to have
been its Haile Silassie, Largo Caballero,
Chiang Kai-shek and Benes ; but Stevens
squibbed it.
A wandering cyclist has ridden from
Albany to Perth, 256 miles, in 12 hours
38 minutes. Government railways
schedule-time is 15 hours 25 minutes.
Albany is the port from which the
Anzacs set out on the voyage that made
history. It is understood that Premier •
Willcock, like Stevens, is willing to
attend to the “organisation of defence.”
Thorby has made a statement on the
emergency measures taken by his advisers
when war seemed imminent; and it
leaves much to the imagination. It is
admitted that one weakness was re-
vealed ; and by way of remedying it
Defence’s central administrative staff is
to be shifted from Melbourne to Can-
berra. How this could daunt an enemy
is not clear, but ’Berra shopkeepers and
hotelkeepers thoroughly approve.
This time last year the U.A.P. was
indignantly denying that Spender was a
U.A.P. candidate for Warringah. Spender,
it shouted, was an Independent, the only
genuine dyed-in-the-wool and blown-on
the-bottle U.A.P. candidature being that
of Archdale Parkhill. Last week Spender,
M.H.R., was admitted to the U.A.P.
party-room ; and Parkhill, where was he?
Ask of the winds that stir the sands at
Manly-by-the-Sea ?
There was so much internal opposition
to the “amended” inter-State Commission
Bill, which provided for five fat sinecures
instead of three, that the thing suddenly
lost its place on the business paper at
Canberra. It was first one day and eighth
the next. Nobody wanted it except can-
didates for fat sinecures, and they’ll never
get ’em now.
Inquiries into the cases of policemen
who have lost their jobs seem likely to
be a permanent addition to the cost of
government in N.S.W. In 1935-36 £4942
was spent on these investigations; in
1936-37, £11,914; in 1937-38, £2613. Of
the total of £19,469, the Government
paid £15,336 in counsel’s fees. Now a
royal commission has been issued for
another set of inquiries, and it is “ex-
pected to cost between £6OOO and £8000.”
For three months of 1938-39, N.S.W.
revenue was £11,813,479, up £154,748,
and expenditure £14,110,914, up
£1,129,652. The principal U.A.P. news-
paper calls this a “regression” in one
column and a “retrogression” in an-
other. In the same issue it announces
that oil companies have arrived at a
“tripartite” agreement, and it rings the
changes on “multilateral” and “uni-
lateral.” The newspaper craze for using
Latin words that conceal thought, if
any, is as silly as the newspaper craze for
photographing acres of female flesh and
calling it the Joy of Youth or the Spirit
of the Season.
On the day when it came out that
Stevens had given his successor Mair a
three months’ debit balance of £2,297,500
“The prospect of Victorians selling milk, as well as cream, in N.S.W. has moved a
member of the Milk Board to declare that his concern is watching the position closely and
will be armed against competition.’”
“None of your ‘Going a-milking, sir, she said,’ in Sydney! It’s ‘You Can’t Do
That There ’Ere!’”
to play with, U.A.P. members were
rounded up to certify that “Mr. Stevens’s
all-round Parliamentary ability, driving
power, industry and financial capacity
are urgently required at Canberra”—as
Treasurer if not Prime Minister. Spender,
the member for Warringah, hastened to
announce that he wasn’t going to make
way for anyone, just as poor Holman
did when he was M.H.R. for Martin and
a Stevens kite was flown in his time. It
is hoped that Stewart, of Parramatta, will
make the necessary sacrifice. If he does,
it will be useless.
The Maoriland licensing referendum
showed, as usual, a gain for continuance
at the expense of compulsory drought.
There was also an increase in the vote
for State purchase and control, though
not nearly enough for Labor’s liking.
Money from that source would be handy
when it has tapped every other.
Flushed with victory, Savage, P.M.,
has retired from the platform to struggle
with his social-security scheme, which he
says will “begin to operate on the first
of April.” In case something goes wrong,
wouldn’t it be as well to alter the date?
“The gangsterdom of Hitler is a
menace to the world which has plunged
every man, woman and child in Europe
into a chaos of fear.” Sir Alfred
Zimmern uttered that rubbish at Perth
on his way back to England from the
Under - the - Lap - stone Conference at
Sydney. He is a professor, and Aus-
tralia is beginning to regard rubbish
as the normal output of professors who
discuss politics.
Scotland used to be a stronghold of
the old Liberal party, and when that
party fell on evil days the Scotch Libs,
turned Labor. Much the same thing is
happening in Maoriland, where the
strong Scotch vote for Labor staggered
the Nationalists. The odd thing is that
there is no strong Scottish element among
the Labor members themselves.
There was a Great Public Demand on
the part of one or two chaps in an even-
ing newspaper office for Stevens to go
to Canberra and become Minister of
Defence. One or two chaps in another
newspaper office were willing to echo the
Great Public Demand, but suggested that
Stevens “can do much better work for
the organisation of defence preparations
by remaining at his post.” What on earth
has a provincial Premier got to do with
“the organisation of defence prepara-
tions,” and what idoes Stevens know
about defence, anyhow? Has he ever
seen a gas mask, let alone a bursting
shell?
In a speech at Melbourne, Latham,
C.J., recalled that he had had some-
thing to do with the shaping of Czecho-
slovakia “as a member of the Com-
mission on Boundaries at the Peace
Conference.”
The 3,500,000 Germans in the north-
west corner of Bohemia did not wish to
join Germany, but in 1919 the Czechs were
in possession, and who was to put them
out?
He paid another visit to Geneva as a
representative of Australia.
I asked to be allowed to say that Ger-
many wasn’t getting a fair go. At the
request of the British Government the
Commonwealth Government refused per-
mission.
An extremely foolish example of tun-
ing-in to Britain.
Victorians are selling cream in Sydney
at less than the local Milk Board price,
and may sell milk. Under the inter-
state freetrade section of the Constitu-
tion they have a right to do both, and
people who say N.S.W. cream is too
dashed dear are supporting them. But the
proceeding is a crime against provincial-
ism and bureaucracy, and it is expected
that provincialists and bureaucrats will
stop it somehow. /
In a fit of spy mania, the Washington
Government is prosecuting a few Ger-
mans. Without waiting to see how they
got on, “S. M. Herald” likened
“the German spy-ring’s activities” to
“the large-scale espionage carried on with
almost contemptuous blatancy by Ger-
man agents during the Great War.” Spies
run in all shapes, and have existed at all
periods of modern history, but was there
ever a spy who bellowed?
Five candidates are out for Gippsland
North: Manson (U.A.P.), Borthwick
(United C.P.), Gilchrist ( Liberal C.P.),
Cullinan (Labor) and Glover (Ind. Lab.).
Sale, Bairnsdale and Maffra are the prin-
cipal polling places, and if Gilchrist could
get 75 p.c. of the votes that Tummas
Paterson, who is running him, gets there
at Federal elections he would win. But
Tummas’s local pull never gave Jimmy
McLachlan any cause for worry.
At the rate immigrants are arriving,
the population of the Commonwealth
will reach 7,000,000 next year. It was
estimated at 6,893,000 on June 30. All
sorts of political refugees want to come
from all sorts of places, and all sorts
of people are demanding that they should
be allowed to come.
In a Victorian Assembly debate on a
bill giving the Country Roads Board
more power over motorists, Hollway, the
member for Ballarat, objected that it
would set up another “prosecuting
authority” when the place already
swarms with them:
We have a Traffic Act with one set of
regulations, a Transport Regulation Act
with 11 sets, seven Motor-car Acts with 10
sets, three Motor-omnibus Acts with three
sets, a Local Government Act, a Police
Offences Act—at least 15 Acts and 25
sets of regulations all dealing with motor
traffic.
“And that’s a conservative estimate,”
Hollway concluded. Very conservative.
A common carrier who started out from
Perth on a round-Australia trip with
a few parcels for each State and Terri-
tory would have to observe scores of
Acts and hundreds of sets of regulations
and ordinances before he completed the
journey—that’s if the Transport Stran-
gulation Boards let him complete it.
Of Queensland farmers who make
enough to pay income tax, the sugarcane
division is easily the most prosperous.
For the year to June 30, 1937, 1927 cane-
farmers amassed £850,599 of -net income
from personal exertion, the average (shil-
lings and pence omitted) being £441.
Next came 117 fruitgrowers, with £43,148
at £368 ; 849 mixed farmers, £293,337 at
£345, and 187 dairymen, £54,370 at £290.
Among those who derived income from
property as well as personal exertion
there were 321 cane-farmers with
£293,243, 73 mixed farmers (£47,973), 18
dairy-farmers (£6744) and 10 fruitgrowers
(£3565). No dairyman or fruitgrower
earned more than £2OOO that year ; 14
cane-farmers and one mixed farmer were
in the £2OOl-£3OOO group, four cane-
farmers in the £3OOl-£4OOO, and four
more in the £4OOl-£5OOO.
A Communist speaks in Sydney
Domain:
You have heard the extracts I have read
from the Sydney “Morning Herald.*’ I
agree with every word it has to say about
the triumph of Hitler and force over de-
mocracy and peace. I can understand the
editor shuddering in his palatial office;
but he forgets that shuddering is no good
unless it is remembered that the price of
democracy and safety is eternal vigilance.
If we are going to allow Fascist and Nazi
agents to come into Australia and freely
spy and report on us how can we expect
to keep our freedom and democracy?
That may be a new thought for the
“Herald.”
It isn’t. The young man should have
heard the Old Girl when Kisch and
Griffin were here!


THE CHIC SALON OPENS AT BANDILIGONG.


KIDNEYS
CAUSE OF
MANY BACKACHES
Flush Out 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 miles of tiny tubes or filters which
strain the waste and acids from the blood. A
healthy person should pass 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter.
If your kidneys don't work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous,
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. It may
lay vou up for many months.
Don't wait ! Ask your chemist for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . used success-
fully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney dis-
orders. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes. So be
sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
ECONOMIC CONSEQUENCES OF WAR
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK IN AUSTRALIA
THE BUDGET AND TAXATION
MINES AND METALS
October Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
X3MCT
5 Hja
U
*
£5/10/
r
Throw away your brush
and blades and shave the
Schick way. Over 2
million Schick shavers
in daily use, saving time
and money. Schick can-
not cut the tenderest
skin. It leaves the face
smooth and flexible.
Obtainable all stores.
PERSONAL ITEM S
W. M. Hughes still appeals to the
imagination of British newspapers, but
they rarely reach the height of enthusiasm
displayed by a London weekly pictorial
which published his photograph the other
day and announced that he has “a high
squeaky voice and is religious and fond
of reading lessons in church.”
H. E. Vail, the Westralian mining man,
died in Perth just when an attempt to
have the ban on iron-ore expbrts lifted
was about to be introduced into the
Senate. Yampi iron-ore was one of Vail’s
many Westralian interests. They dieted
from 1903 when—a young Californian,
like Hoover —he came to the State for
Bewick Moreing. His main recreation
was horseracing, and he owned some
good noddies, some of which he raced
in Victoria as well as the West. *
Wilfred D. Sharland, recently elected
president of the S.A. branch of the
W.D. SHARLAND.
R.S.L., is an insurance man, manager of
the Phoenix in Adelaide. He’s 49, 6ft.
3in. in his socks, and, though he was in
the Great War from 1915 to 1918, serv-
ing in Egypt and France, he managed to
keep his head free of bullets. He joined
up as a private in the 10th Battalion, and
received a commission after two years’
service. The Military Cross came his
way in 1918 for gallantry in capturing
a German post.
Died, at the age of 77, at Wollongong
(N.S.W.), Frederick Thomas Bridges, one-
time g.m. of the A.M.P. Society. Born
at Balmain (Sydney)—his father was
Chief Inspector of Schools, and later
Under-Secretary for Education in N.S.W.
—he was educated at Cleveland-street
and Fort-street public schools. A school-
mate was H. W. Apperly, whom he suc-
ceeded as executive head of the A.M.P.
in 1930. F. T. Bridges joined the A.M.P.
as a junior clerk in 1876, and was resident
secretary in Adelaide, Brisbane and Mel-
bourne until »he was called to Sydney to
fill the vacancy caused by H. W.
Apperly’s death. A relation of the Poet
Laureate Robert Bridges, he was widely
read dnd a keen collector of Australian
books and pictures. A son, Dr. F. J.
Bridges, of Darling Point (Sydney), has
written largely for The Bulletin.
Hurtle Morphett, dead in Adelaide at
83, was son of John Morphett and grand-
son of Hurtle Fisher, two of S.A.’s lead-
ing men in its very earliest days; and
was born in the old Morphettville home
still occupied by the family. He was a
pastoralist all his life, first on Thurul-
goona and Warrnambool Downs (Q.),
and then on the rich Lower Murray
swamps (near where the Murray Bridge
was eventually placed), commended by
Sturt on his historic voyage, but not
seriously banked up and converted into
15 sheep-to-the-acre land till the Mor-
phetts—and others —tackled it. Hyrtlc
Morphett never married ; two sisters sur-
vive.
When Bach’s B Minor Mass is sung at
Melbourne Town Hall on November 19,
the Philharmonics will have to face the
majestic beard of Sir Granville Bantock.
Imported by the A.8.C., the doyen of
British conductors and composers is in
his 70th year. He began composing half
a century ago and his contributions in-
clude folk music, many pianoforte suites
and such great choral works as “Ata-
lanta” and “The Great God Pan.” In
his twenties he toured with musical
comedy companies and had a season in
Australia conducting “The Gaiety Girl.”
Hundreds of musicians owe their first
step on the ladder to the handsome
veteran.
“El Verdugo” on a career cut short:
It is doubtful whether any family in the
British peerage can claim anything like the
record of the Stanleys, whose eldest son,
heir to the earldom of Derby, died the other
day as the belated result of a war wound;
both he and his brother Oliver, President of
the Board of Trade, were injured during the
scrap. Every earl of the last five generations
has been in the British Cabinet, one of them
was three times Prime Minister and four of
them, including the one just dead, served as
Secretaries for the Colonies.
Had a 90th birthday in Adelaide,
Langdon Bonython, Cornishman, who
was on the “Advertiser” staff at 16, part
proprietor in another 16 years, and in
another 16 the sole proprietor. He sold
out to the present co. in 1929, but is
still at the office every day. He earned
a knighthood for services to education
40 years ago, and has since seen his son
Lavington get one for municipal work.
He was a member of the first Federal
Parliament, and has a host of good stories
of Kingston, Deakin, Barton, Fisher and
company. He has been president of
Adelaide School of Mines for the whole
half-century of its existence, and latterly
he has given immense sums for a new
Parliament House, the Bonython Hall
(and other benefactions) at the Univer-
sity, and a multitude of good deeds that
he doesn’t talk about.
Dead at 80, Charles Frederick Tindal,
one of the brothers who gave the pas-
toral industry on the N.S.W. Northern
Rivers a big lift by establishing a meat-
works at Ramornie station, on the Orara,
a tributary of the Clarence River. Pre-
viously cattle were boiled down for
tallow, the meat being thrown to the
crows. The other brother, Charles Grant
Tindal, died some years ago. The old
station, long famous for its Herefords,
will celebrate its centenary next year.
Gone west, Charles Lennox Gardiner,
Adelaide octogenarian. Besides being re-
sponsible for the construction of many
Port Adelaide wharves, he had many suc-
cesses in the racing world. He owned
Lemina, which won two Port Adelaide
Cups and ran into a place in the Aus-
tralian and Caulfield Cups. Calamus,
Socratea, Orania, Tagala, Alocosia, Pan-
danus and Thyrnex carried his colors.
Until the end he was trying to induce
the Government to construct a barrage
across the upper reaches of the Port
Adelaide River, thus shortening the route
from Adelaide to the Outer Harbor, and
incidentally reclaiming a large parcel of
his land.
Twenty-one years ago James Henry
Allan Thomas, of the Light Trench
Mortar Battery, got his Blighty in France
—a bullet in the back. He saw Arma-
geddon out to the end, but in 1920 he
became an inmate of Caulfield Military
Hospital. Last year he married one of
the staff and set up a home for himself.
Still bedridden, he died last week.
Two names are being canvassed for
the secretaryship of the Melbourne
Cricket Club, made vacant by the death
of Hugh Trumble. Wally Cattlin, who
has handled M.C.C. affairs in a subordi-
nate capacity for 20 years, is one ; Ben
Barnett, the Test wicketkeeper, the other.
Cattlin, who is acting secretary at the
moment, will probably get it.
W. R. Crampton, dead in Brisbane,
was one of the older stalwarts of the
Labor party. Before the war, as organiser
to the Meat Industry Union, he took a
leading part in founding Australia’s first
Labor daily newspaper, the “Daily
Standard,” of which he became indus-
trial editor and general manager. In the
early Ryan days he was Director of
Labor for a time, but resigned when he
was “elevated” to the Leg. Council, in
which he was deputy-leader of the Gov-
ernment. Crampton’s interests were wide
—he sat on the University Senate, pre-
sided over the Maimed and Wounded
Soldiers’ Fund, organisation during the
war, helped to establish the State Abat-
toirs and had been Deputy-Mayor of
Brisbane. Also he worked hard for the
Australian Journalists’ Association.
Lieut.-Col. A. M. Forbes, M.V.0.,
M.C., who has not long returned from
England, where he was engaged on mili-
tary duties, was born in Melbourne 46
years ago, and was one of the original
Duntroon cadets. In 1914 he left Aus-
tralia as a lieutenant in the 6th Battery,
Ist Division Artillery, and was invalided
from Gallipoli in July, 1915. He rejoined
his battery in Egypt, and later com-
manded the 102nd Howitzer Battery in
Lieut.-Col. A.M. FORBES.
France. He was appointed major in
1917, and was afterwards brigade major,
Ist Division Artillery. In October, 1918,
he was on the staff of the sth Division.
Since the war he has been adjutant of
Duntroon, and held staff positions in
N.S.W., Vic., S.A. and Tas. He was one
of the official party at the unveiling of
the Australian war memorial by the King
at Villers-Bretonneux.
A good deal of knocking about has
been done by Captain H. C. Phillips,
O.C. Garden Island, Sydney. His days
as a midshipman commenced in 1906.
The Great War found him in demand for
service in various capacities, including
torpedo and experimental duties. In post-
war times he has had an Admiralty post
and a period of service with Mediter-
Captain H.C. PHILLIPS.
ranean destroyer flotillas. He was
gazetted captain in 1932, and served
under Evans of the Broke in African
waters. Transferred then to China, he
commanded the Cornwall and the Suf-
folk in succession. Came to Garden
Island last June. He’s a dab at hockey,
having represented the R.N. in that
sport ; fair at cricket, and not as good
as he’d like to be at golf.
Ambrose Pratt, one of the few writers
with beards in Melbourne, has lately
come out on the side of the koala with
the interesting suggestion that the Gov-
ernment should copy 1000 towns in Ger-
many by establishing sanctuaries attached
to every country school where the appro-
priate trees could be planted and the
“bears” induced to live in them. He
also quotes the example of N.S.W., which
has a variant of the same proposal in
being. Pratt has had a picturesque career
as lawyer, world traveller, newspaper
editor and proprietor and writer of
upwards of 30 novels. His interest in the
koala springs from his presidency of the
Vic. Royal Zoological Society.
Artist-knight John Longstaff hasn’t yet
approached the record of his admired
predecessor, Titian, who painted his
masterpiece at 92, and continued for an-
other six years to put pigment on
canvas, but he is moving in that
direction. At 76, he is active enough to
undertake commissions in other States ;
he has just returned from Adelaide
after painting a portrait of news-
paper magnate Langdon Bonython.
Longstaff won the first Vic. travelling
scholarship in 1887 for his “Breaking the
News,” one of the few scholarship pic-
tures that have had any enduring fame.
Among his scattered gallery of portraits
are Edward Seventh and Queen Alex-
andra in the Sydney Nat. Gallery and
the much-reproduced likeness of Henry
Lawson. He has won the Archibald
Prize four times.


As Good
for Women
as for Men
W.
y
sSSS
%
4 /
For generations Wolfe’s Schnapps has been valued
for unique medicinal properties found in no other
spirit. It is a safe and pleasant preventative of colds
or the “flu”—it is highly recommended for tiredness,
backache, poor appetite and all the other everyday
ills of life —and, to women especially, its moderate
use is of inestimable benefit in helping to overcome
fatigue and indisposition arising from natural disorders.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a splendid stimulant, undoubtedly,
and it is a distinctively delightful beverage, but in
character and constituents it is
essentially and above all a Health
Drink.
EEP-RODUCT OF HOLLAND
■at 1 besL pouibie *** * *1
m^=Tt a attention of A zmJ+,*
ii united to the Sicn.if^rf**^
lii ihc Cunll.ll. einbo{*efl*tip
b*
V
t/f/co
»-• xwiycruUawl -awl Uw iru riu.-
Hlf3iET:tPltimi. 02
WOLFE'S
chromatic cSzkizdan)
SCHNAPPS
Wolfe’s Schnapps is obtainable in large,
half and quarter size bottles at all
hotels. Take a bottle home to-night!
JL
mil
MiflF
X
W. 5.142.8.
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE


ABORIGINALITIES
“Jayem”: A crowd gathered around
the first car fitted with a wireless aerial
on the roof that was seen at Wongomolla.
Long Harry inspected the innovation
with interest. “Cripes, I always thought
that these flamin’ cars ought to be fitted
with lightnin’-conductors,” he said.
“Here’s a bloke that’s got one.”
$ * *l* *
“Tom Willie”: If you own a tortoise
don’t chain him up. A hole bored
through the tail of the shell makes a
good fixing-place for the chain ; but the
shellback will refuse to eat. You can’t
tempt him even with Christmas pudding.
He’ll eat every pest in the garden if you
can keep him there long enough, but he
would escape and gallop a thousand
miles to water if free. The only way
to keep him in is to sheet-glass the
ground and the fences. That is all right
in the winter, but during the summer
you would find it a bit hot.
* if. =f =f
“Alan”: On the million-acre sheep
station on the Georgina (n.-w. Q) where
1 work the paddocks are too big, the
climate too hot and water too scarce to
permit the use of dogs ; and we never
carry whips. Yet we seldom experience
inconvenience in either mustering or
keeping the sheep together or in handling
them in the yards. Reason is they have
never become accustomed to whips and
dogs. We muster mobs of up to 10,000,
toe.
“Towser”: The ribald laughter with
which such a claim might be greeted has
kept me out of this argument so far ; but
I’m chipping in now and saying how a
good sheep-dog really gets his directions
from his boss. I’m not talking about the
sheep-trial dog that can see the whites
of his owner’s eyes ; I’m referring to the
bloke who goes half a mile or more up
the wing, wheels ’em, steadies em,
swings out and brings in another mob
a musterer might be bringing. I’ve
proved it over and over again that it’s
a form of telepathic communication be-
tween the man and dog. In plain lan-
guage, the owner “thinks” to his dog.
I’ve done it; I’ve several times proved it
to unbelievers. Any dog used to work-
ing for one man learns something of it
from the man who is his master mind ;
a good dog does things in obedience to
the directing thought, even if it’s a mile
or more away. If he doesn’t follow those
orders, how does he get ’em? No dog
could see the wave of a hand at a dis-
tance when the man can only see a
smudge which is the dog ; no dog could
hear a called order above the rumble of
ten thousand trotters and with the wind
blowing against the voice.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: Supplementing “Nagheer’s”
par. (B 5/10/’3B), the first two-wheeled
bullock-drays on the Darling Downs
were made by a blacksmith named Craig.
He rode the 500 miles from Dungog
(N.S.W.) to Bracker’s place to see if
there was an opening for a smithy on the
Downs. Broker promised to help him,
so back he rode to Dungog, made a dray
for himself, then got a team of bullocks
together and, with his plant, a supply
of iron and steel and his household goods
and family aboard, piloted the team to
the new settlement. He set up in the
wattle scrub that is now Warwick city,
and there he made many of the drays
that were used on the surrounding sta-
tions. His old shop has disappeared,
though the shepherd’s hut, the first habi-
tation built on the Downs, has been pre-
served. It stands in the middle of War-
wick, and alongside is the gum-tree under
which Leslie camped before the hut was
put up.
* * * *
“Wabbalee”: Nobody can tell me any-
thing about the spotted-gum itch ; I’ve
had it in all stages—lumps, sores, itching,
fever. When I toiled in a meat-skewer
factory on the N.S.W. South Coast it
had me down to a frazzle. “Get
away from spotted gum,” the doc. said.
I did. I went up on Monaro, but con-
tact with a mountain ash brought it back.
No fever and no sores, but the lumps
and the itching were as bad as any at-
tack from spotted gum. Later experi-
ence has convinced me that a body sus-
ceptible to the disease will get it after
contact with any timber at certain times
of the year. Tea-tree is probably the
"He used to be in the army, but he always had a hankerin' for the navy!"
worst offender. Of the many things I
tried for it, Solyptol in a warm bath gave
me most relief.
sfc s*e sfc »fi
“Gundy”: The road gang had
complained to the chef about the
monotony of the menu at the camp, jam
getting special mention. The next order
to the store included “one case of jam—
bar plum.” When the case arrived it
contained only plum of several varieties.
On the invoice was this footnote: “Sorry
we are right out of Bar Plum. Have
ordered a fresh supply which will be
forwarded on arrival.”
* * * *
“R.H.P.”: Not long since cocking, as
a “sport,” received the unanimous scorn
of sundry Aboites. Yet compared with
it the legal “sport” of live-hare coursing
makes cocking look like a game of ludo.
In cocking, the contestants are evenly
matched, and they wade into each other
with a clarion of sheer joy for the scrap.
There is no fear about it, and the loser
is game to the last. Compare this with
hare-coursing, in which a timid and help-
less animal is hunted around an en-
closure until it drops from terror and
exhaustion, when the spectators enjoy the
edifying spectacle of seeing it torn to
pieces by a couple of dogs. During the
only coursing meeting I ever attended I
saw 11 hares slaughtered to make a
punters’ holiday, and I left (at half-time!)
with my faith in human nature badly
shaken.
# * * s{c
“Western”: When a rail-motor bucked
off its driver just south of Mt. Barker,
the apple-growing district on the Perth-
Albany (W.A.) line, it started a runaway
career. For 30 miles it travelled at high
speed, dashing through not less than
eight unattended sidings without en-
countering anything to bring it to a stop.
One enterprising cit. set off in pursuit in
a motor car, but soon gave up the chase.
The telegraph, however, was speedier.
Albany, right on the southern edge of
the continent, was the only possible stop,
the probable ending being the dropping
of the runaway over the end of the
Deepwater Jetty. However, an enter-
prising ganger hurriedly marshalled
hands, and a barricade of loose sleepers
was built across the line just outside the
Albany station. That stopped it, with
considerable damage to the coach. But
could a 30-mile runaway run, without
bumping anything, be matched in any
other part of the whole railway world?
a * * *
“Pie-pie-pie”: When a Mathoura
(N.S.W.) youth arrived home from a
bike ride with a broken nose, facial
abrasions and partial concussion it was
feared he had been the victim of a hit-
run bird. He had. The lad tried to beat
off an attacking maggie, lost control of
the grid, grid hit a culvert, and the
result we know.
* * * *
“Billy See”: But, jokes aside, a rat-
trap of the guillotine variety would be a
very effective instrument for the firing
of a land mine (B. 28 /9 / ’3B). The smack
that the guillotine bow gives would fire
any percussion cap, including fulminate
of mercury; and that could be made
either to explode nitroglycerine direct
or to start a fuse that might set blasting-
powder off. Even a mouse-trap would
be effective. Given a couple of dry cells,
such a trap on being sprung could be
made to complete an electric circuit,
with excellent explosive results. Simple,
homely things are often the most
efficient in their deadliness. Some of
U.S.A’s. most devastating bombs were
timed with a cheap alarm-clock.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Just now nor’-western
N.S.W. would gladden the heart of an
ornithologist, especially one specialising
in water fowl. Lagoons, creeks, swamps
and rivers from Tamworth to the border
and points west, freshened by good spring
rains, are literally crowded with wild
duck, ibis, herons, spoonbills and even
the rare snipe. Further south things are
so dry that M.I.A. folk are concerned
about the low level of Burrinjuck, which
probably accounts for the feathered in-
flux to the north.
* * * *
“Deepwater”: He was telling me
about snakes, prevalent enough in the
district. “I seen a big ’un, a beaut, slidin’
towards the cover of a black log. There
wasn’t a stick handy, so, quick as
lightnin’, I picked up a smaller snake
lyin’ near and, usin’ him as a whip, I
knocked the big feller rotten!”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: When Yanga Ted was
young and gay he burst upon the few
maidens of Euchapivy (isolated Murray
River village) as Jason might have
appeared to the flappers of lolchus. At
that time Euchapivy was split by a feud
that had its roots way back in the days
when Jimmy the One rowed the Bent
Pin for a tenner aside and won, largely
because some of the cohorts of James
had tied a bag of chaff under the Pin’s
boat. The feud was twenty years old
when Yanga blew in. Few remembered
its origin, but each side always had
plenty of adherents when it flamed into
fury. At the New Year dance, Yanga
selected Bonnie T., and stayed with her
through the hours while Black George
(a Pin) was walking 50 miles from his
broken-down old car, having heard that
Percy (a One) had left Prungle the night
before to attend the hop and lay heart
and fortune before Bonnie. B.G. and
P. ended their odysseys about midnight,
reaching the pub almost together, dog-
tired and thirsty. Between desultory
threats they downed a few, then spruced
up and made for the shivoo. 8.G., after
profane inquiry about the stranger,
hopped into Yanga without further ado.
Prungle’s hope also joined the argument.
In a few minutes the old feud was at its
height. Somewhere in the midst of fiery
Pin and furious One, like the ball in
football, was Yanga. He escaped at last,
clad only in torn pants and the neck-
band of his shirt, rode his horse 20 miles
to Tapalin, caught the fruit boat to
Mildura, and went back to work among
the vines. It was only when he struck
Black George at Heliopolis (Egypt) two
years later that he learned the real casus
belli of that wild night.
* * *
“Puflinus”: The most dangerous of
all enemies of Australia’s numerous and
interesting species of ground-feeding
birds are those cats which have gone
bush or have been bred from those which
have. They have extended all over the
continent, and have even been found in
the Ellery Creek Gorge, 120 miles west
of Alice Springs, in the very centre of
Australia. Bush-bred cats grow much
larger and more powerful than their
domesticated ancestors, and are exceed-
ingly efficient hunters. I have seen many
that would be a serious opponent for an
unarmed man. The skin of a yellow tom
which I shot last year as he was about
to pinch a fifth chicken measures just an
inch under 2ft. from nose to tail-base.
In addition to their mainland depre-
dations, cats take heavy toll of seabirds
on Barrier Reef islands. There they
develop into powerful swimmers, and
cross wide channels from island to island.
* * * *
“Moutons”: This seems to be a
season for freaks among sheep. Follow-
ing a report of a ewe with ram’s head
and horns at Dalveen (Q.), have just
received a snapshot of a lamb born with
six legs on a Gilgandra (N.S.W.) farm.
Both freaks are alive and doing well.
Any more?
* * * *
“Spare Walton”: We have been given
further lessons in natural history *by
Sydney “D.T.,” which describes the
arrival by air from Bananaland of two
Ceradoti, waggishly described by the
journal as “flying-fish.” The “D.T.”
points out also that, though Ceradotus
can breathe in air as well as water, it
has to be kept moist, and for this pur-
pose “seaweed” was used. What the
“Burnett salmon,” to give it its popular
name, which lives in fresh water many
miles from the sea, wants with weed from
that saline proposition is not explained.
NOTHING LEFT IN COPPER.
The water in the Mount of Light is dark and
deep and still;
The fires at Leigh’s Creek all are out —bum
' more they never will;
Hard by the disused Yuda track the roof is off
a miner’s shack;
The Dominick and Chambers’, and Wirrealpa,
too,
Are nothing more than empty holes that once
the miners knew.
There’s nothing left in copper, and little left
of gold;
The smelters now are silent, the smelter fires
are cold.
Smiler has left the mining game, and turned
to sheep instead ;
The last to live at Sliding Rock is all these four
years dead;
Bill and Lance pull down the sheds that stand
beside the poppet heads,
But Clarry hunts for colors in the bottoms
of the creeks
While the sheepyards and the fences go un-
tended then for weeks.
There’s nothing left in copper, and nothing
much of gold;
The last of the old-timers is grey, and queer,
and old.
There’s water in the Daly now, and cavings in
the shaft —
Bentley has given up at last and learned the
sheepman’s craft;
The red rust eats the strong machine with
saplings through it thrusting green.
What plant is at the Blinman wouldn’t bring a
tenth its cost,
And the camel-pad to Painter is overgrown and
lost.
There’s nothing now in copper, not much to
find of gold
In the ranges, with their mining days a tale
that’s long been told.
S.A.
LAN MUDIE.


“Lightning J.”: “Motor-cars ain’t so
very wunnerful,” declared old Joe Dick-
son, indicating wiith his pipestem a passing
latest model. “Why, twenty year ago
ole Tom Lighthead, of Magpie Flat, built
a car that’d knock spots orf any of these
things we see to-day. The front of it
wus movable and made of iron, with
a big magnet ’angin’ a few inches ahead.
The driver on’y ’ad ter bring a bit uv
the iron towards the magnet, and the
whole caboose’d leap for’ard. Trouble
wus the magnet wus so strong that it
picked up a lota deadweight, sech
as ole picks ’n’ crowbars. It got
along pretty good even with them
’angin’ to it, but it wus a steam-
roller that’d bin left on the road
by the council men that tore it. But it
wus a snifter car orl right. After the
smash I picked orf the magnet a battered
tin dish with three ’weights of gold
jammed in one of the bends.”
* * * *
“Wabbalee”: Bill wasn’t quite sure
that the blackbutt would cut the 76ft.
girder he wanted to fulfil a special order.
Falling the tree on spec, might end in
waste of labor and timber. After some
head-scratching, he got out his marking-
line and measured off 76ft., then he
strode off into the bush. He came back
after a while carrying a goanna by the
tail. He got the line, fastened it to the
go.’s tail, and started him up the tree.
When the go. reached the first limb the
end of the line was just clear of the
ground. But by getting down close to
the roots Bill achieved his girder.
* * * *
“Syd Swagman”: I met him on the
Mitchell River, in the Gulf country. He
was camped on his own, a gaunt, ragged,
hirsute individual whose ruling passion
was gold, and whose talk was of croco-
diles. He had found that crocs, take in
rounded stones as ballast to keep them
submerged. One day when examining
one of these stones he was astonished to
find it to be water-worn quartz simply
studded with gold. Now he was hunting
crocodiles in the hope of finding an
Eldorado where every crocodile was
loaded to the gun’l with a cargo of gold.
* * * m
“Gamoos”: Administrator Abbott, of
the N.T., says that “amateur” shqoters
are ruining the N.T. buffalo industry.
The “amateurs”
shoot bulls, cows
and calves, and the
herds are gradually
decreasing ; the pro-
fessional shooter
never drops cows.
And “hams” are
deliberately shooting
on reserves for which
the pros, pay rent.
At the present rate
Abbott reckons four
or five years will see
the end of the herds.
The business is
worth holding on to;
revenue last year was
£19,000 and the year
before £23,000. The
professionals are
paying a fair whack.
Remedy? Pop a
heavy license on each
rifle, as in Kenya,
with a limit on the
“Forget your dignity for once, Prendergast , and have a bob each Way
Nuffield."
game shot. In Australia’s case the vast
bird life should also be considered.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: The Australian cricketers
have been complaining of hot nights in
the Red Sea. Ever try the old bushman’s
dodge for sleepless heat? Make a couple
of quarts of tea, sweeten it to the limit
and swamp it down quickly. Any old
bush hand will back me, but the tea must
be very weak and very sweet.
* * * *
“Sharpshooter”: Let me rise in defence
of the modern .303 bullet, which has
lately aroused the scorn of sundry Abo-
liars. They claim that its disadvantage
is that it will pass clean through big
game, making only a fine hole, thus prov-
ing ineffective unless hitting a vital organ.
With pointed .303’s I have shot ’roos,
foxes and crows —a fair range of targets
—and they invariably burst or “mush-
room” as soon as they hit. When they
pass right through they leave holes of
up to 4in. in diameter.
* * * *
“Genewhit”: Because of the lack of
suitable babies’ food in Centralia, native
infants are not weaned until they are
about three years old. There is a pinch
if the stork does not space his visits at
sufficiently wide intervals. Such a new-
comer, who had threatened the liveli-
hood of his elder brother or sister, fell
into the hands of the last Museum expe-
dition to that region. The plaster cast
they made is of a boy. a few days old,
with a single dent in the centre of his
forehead, obviously inflicted with a
skilfully wielded waddy.
* * * *
“Pothunter”: In the U.S.A. the mur-
derous dodge of night-shooting by elec-
tric flashlight (B. 12/10/’3B) is called
“still-shooting,” and for many years was
practised with an ordinary bull’s-eye lan-
tern held by a mate on deer coming down
to water at the lakes at night. Then so
many elaborate gadgets were invented
that most of the States made still-shoot-
ing illegal, and so saved the forest-haunt-
ing deer, which were being wiped out. In
Australia the same course was followed
for shooting possums by night, running
from the old reflector light to the motor-
car headlight and the specially-built
electric reflector. In spite of close sea-
sons the villainous device is helping to
wipe out Australia’s fauna also.
■4 V * *
“D.Mc.”: Dan the Bite dumped his
swag at the door and, hot and thirsty,
breasted Brophy’s bar. “Gimme a beer,”
he panted, “an’ I don’t want one o’ them
vegetareen ones ; get that! ” “Whadda
ye mean, ‘vegetareen’?” snapped old
Brophy. “One with a ’ead on it
like a cauliflower!” was Dan’s reply.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Those who like a dash of
fennel in their salad (B. 28/9/’3B) needn’t
stint themselves, for there’s tons of the
stuff around Melbourne’s northern
suburbs. According to an old-timer I
unearthed, fennel got loose from a couple
of Spaniards who had notions of start-
ing a snail farm at North Essendon and
“Think We better stick it inside , Alf? The cops might get suspicions."
imported the plant from Europe to
nurture and flavor the gasteropods. JJn-
able to entice the epicures of Melbourne
town from their everlasting mutton, the
Castilians packed up and left the fennel
to get itself outlawed for a noxious weed,
and it’s my belief they let the sliprails
down for their blasted shellbacks, too.
* * * *
“Beat”: “Skeeters?” said Groperland
Bill. “Youse blokes dunno what they
are! Blue and me were
working a little show on the
Murchison in ’34, the flood
year. The mossies weren’t
extra big, only about the size
of Willie Wagtails, but there
v/ere so many we ’ad ter put
wool in our ears or they’d
have deafened us. We slept
completely surrounded with
chicken-wire nettin’, but they
soon jerried ter that; they
used their beaks as ’acksaws.
After that Blue 'it on a new
idea; We’d roll up a coupla
dummies made o’ bags, and
sling ’em in our bunks along
with a pound er two of ’roo-
meat. Then we’d push our
old Lizzie away from the
camp, and as soon as we were
out er hearin’ we’d start the
injun and go to the hills. That
worked for a bit, but the
shrewd cows beat us in the
end. One night when we were
ready to make for our sleep-
ing ground we found all the
tyres flat they’d worked
shifts and bored holes in
every tyre!”
“Gryllus”: A Caboolture (Q.) man
has been complaining that bees are in-
vading his garden to such an extent that
flowers cannot be picked or water-taps
used without hostile demonstrations from
the unwanted visitors. He demands com-
pulsory removal of hives from the vici-
nity of the township. In the eye of the
law, bees are ferce naturae (wild animals),
but removal of hives can be enforced
if the ownership of any bees which are
causing a nuisance can be established.
The catch is that, as no effective system
of branding the creatures has yet been
devised, any given bee, or herd, mort,
bunch, squad, flight, push, mob, gang or'
whatever is the proper collective plural
for bees going about their ordinary busi-
ness of accumulating tucker, may come
either from a respectable private home
or from some ownerless community in
the bush. The only apparent solution
appears to be the abo. one of sticking a
bit of fluff on the intruder and following
it home. But the abo. bee didn’t sting,
which made it a lot easier.
- * * *
“C-view”: Gustave, my German
neighbor-cocky, doesn’t mind in the least
that his wife is flat-footed. “Ven der
spuds she plants alretty,” he explains,
“she her big foot puts down flat und
inter der ground bresses dem, und dat
makes dem come up better yet.”
* * * *
“Botanical Al”: Let me supplement
“Tired Tim’s” accurate observation (B.
5/10/’3B). What is generally termed
“sap” travels up a tree in a different
channel from that which travels down,
the upward channel being nearer the
centre than the downward. Roots absorb
plant food in a form that is unavailable
until it has undergone the process of
photosynthesis, during which carbo-
hydrates are produced by the action of
light. This process can take place only
in the leaves, so until the sap reaches
the leaves it is useless as plant food.
After the process is completed the sap
travels down the tree along the cam-
bium layer, which is directly underneath
the bark. Thus ringbarking which doesn’t
cut through the sapwood, while not in-
terrupting the flow of sap up the tree,
prevents it from flowing down to the
roots. These, unable to obtain assimilable
sap, slowly starve to death, but the por-
tion above the ringbark can live on until
the death of the roots interrupts the up-
ward flow. Of course, a deep ringbark,
by cutting through both cambium and
inner channel, prevents the sap reaching
the leaves, thus accelerating the death of
the tree, unless adventitious shoots arise
from below the “ring”—but that is an-
other story.
* * * *
“Gam”: A farmer near Mt. Gambier
(S.A.) decided to go down the fairly deep
well and fix his pump. He had only his
wife to help him, so the services of
Lizzie were enlisted. The brakes were
defective, but all went well until the
cocky was about half-way up the well,
then the engine stalled. The woman
couldn’t let go the brakes to start Lizzie
up again, as her husband’s weight was
likely to pull the lot on top of him. It
was stalemate, with his nibs doing a
perish for a few hours until a passing
neighbor came to their assistance.
SIGHT FOR THE GODS.
The Visitor from Overseas had lobbed in Whip-
stick Flat . „
And, bailed in Casey’s bar by “Dingbat
Charlie for a chat,
He explained, while “Dingbat” fumbled till the
drinks were safely bought,
He’d come to see the far-famed Bush because
he thought he ought.
This thriving little hamlet held a future, he’d
opine,
Although its sole pursuit was squeezing fluid
out of kine.
The scenery, he thought, looked drear and not
too bally clean,
But surely in the district there were some sights
to be seen!
The “Dingbat” woke right up at that. “You
talk of sights,” said he;
“I’ll show yer one to-morrer if y’ care to come
with me.
You’ve never seen the like of it, I’ll stake me
oath on that;
If I’m a judge it’s somethin’ that y’ll be in
raptures at.”
So on the morrow off they went, with "Ding-
bat” in the lead,
Traversing countless paddocks at considerable
speed.
Mile after dusty mile they slogged through
various estates;
The Visitor computed that he opened ninety
gates.
At last they came—the Visitor was sagging at
the knees —
To where a solitary cow stood chewing at her
ease.
The “Dingbat” proudly pointed. “There you
are,” he said; “not once
But twice this Jersey’s ’ad twin calves — an'
all within twelve munce!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


consult your
So that the wise precautions you have taken to
protect the interests of your family dun g y
lifetime may be continued thereafter, it is
able to engage the services of a Solicitor in th
preparation of your Will, as a Will expressed m
terms which have precise legal mea ™ ™ S {
misinterpretation, costly litigation and defeat of
the Testator's intentions.
Equally important is the appomtment of
vour Executor. By nominating THE TRUSTEES
EXECUTORS & AGENCY COMPANY LTD. m this
capacity you obtain, at a fixed and moderate
cost, the services of a Company with more
than 60 years' practical experience in Estate
administration.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £959,810.
TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
THE
and Agency Company Ltd.
1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
TRUSTEES CHAMBERS, 401 & 403 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS :
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G.
K.C.V.0., D.S.O. _ . _ ,
R. O. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) Hilder
W. D. g Manager; j, W . Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughe:
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phor.e: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“YelgabMelbourne.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Vmalgamated Wireless
Writ- To Re- De-
Juno, Profit Dividends. ten Off. serves, ficit.
£ £ £ £_ £■
Establishment account disclosed, £49,795 28,501
1928.. 70,722 6 p.c. = 43,96123,297 3,404 25,037
Written off establishment exes., £717 .. 24,320
1929. .108,326 8 p.c. = 59,54328,731 20,052 4,268
Written off establishment exes., £ll .. 4,257
To Re- Nominal
Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1930.. 84,283 8 p.c. = 59,543 24,740 20,483
1931.. 59,196 44,657 14,539 35,022
1932 . 77,159 74 „ „ 55,821 21,338 56,300
1933.. 82,172 8 „ „ 59,543 22,629 78.989
1934.. 137,934 10 ~ ~ 74,428 63,500 142,495
Staff' fund, £5OOO 137,495
1935. 119,824 10 P.c = 74,428 1 30 S9O i 67(89 l
Staff fund, £15,000 . . j
1936.. 109,701 11 p.c. 81,870 27,831 195,(21
1937.. 125,794 12 „ „ 89,313 30,481 232,202
1938.. 130,198 12 ~ „ 89,525 40,073 272,875
Australia has much for which to thank
this co., whose Beam service (opened in
1927) and other radio-service and -manu-
facturing activities have greatly cheap-
ened and quickened intra-Australian
communication and broadcasting, as well
as communication between the Com-
monwealth and the rest of the world.
And shareholders, including the Federal
Government, which holds a controlling
interest in the business, are now reaping
the benefit of the management’s enter-
prise and long-sighted policy, for which
chairman E. T. Fisk, knighted for his
work a year or so ago, has been mainly
responsible.
During the last term, international
Beam traffic continued to increase, and
rates for messages within the Empire
were again reduced. The wireless tele-
phone service, which is to be extended
to the U.S.A., was “well maintained” ;
Beam photogram business continued to
expand, and so did export of the co.’s
Australian-made marine radio equip-
ment, which is installed in vessels in
Europe and elsewhere. Production at the
co.’s radio-electrical works, Ashfield,
near Sydney, was a record —they turn
out a wide range of products, including
all kinds of transmitting and re-
ceiving equipment, automatic traffic
signals, radio beacons and telephones
for aeroplanes and the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment, etc. The broadcasting section of
the business (chief station is 2CH Syd-
ney) was further developed, and the valve-
manufacturing subsidiary turned out and
sold approximately a million valves, also
a record.
The spring in gross earnings (£730,918)
was £lO,lOl. Including £97,033 (down
£16,801) for depreciation, exes. (£600,720)
took £5697 of the increase, leaving the
net result at 17.4 p.c. on average capital,
compared with 16.9, 14.7, 16.1, 18.5, 11,
10.3 and 7.9 p.c. back to 1931. Share-
holders were again handed 12 p.c., of
which 2 p.c. is labelled “bonus.” There
was an unexplained addition of £77,241
(£27,124 in the previous term) to the re-
serve for depreciation, etc., making it
£474,082, or nearly 69 p.c. of the book
value of plant, including the Beam ser-
vice, at June 30. Part of this addition
may be the result of a book adjustment
relating to city property, which now
appears at cost (£254,323),
The growth in the freeholds item was
£53,949, partly due to the adjustment
already referred to and partly to the new
14-storeyed building now going up on
the site of the old headquarters in York-
street, Sydney:
1933. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £744,283 £744,283 £744,283 £786,400
Sundry creditors 259,143 240,287 331,720' 440,850
Freeholds . . 297,677 377,243 382,157 436,100
Plant, etc. f on,- 9V4 563 Q 49 f 422,942 509,485
Stocks • 5 59j,203 .>63,949 2g1(273 8 3 0)567
Beam service.. 159,647 171,495 170,814 178,761
Book debts . . 139,686 259,058 304,640 402,139
Cash, etc. . . 282,080 137,362 103,507 83,654
To meet the outlay on property, add
£86,543 to plant, £49,294 to stocks and
£97,499 to debtors’ balances' —they are
encouraging movements —cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £19,853, while £109,130
was added to the amount coming to
outsiders and shareholders put up an
extra £42,123—a shilling was called on
804,118 contribs., making them paid to
15s. each. Despite expenditure on fixed
assets, the more or less liquid surplus
(£375,510) was £17,810 stronger than at
the previous balance. To help see the
new building to completion—the con-
tractor is expected to be off the job dur-
ing the first half of 1939 —another 3s.
per share has been called on the con-
tribs. since the close of accounts, mak-
ing them paid to 18s. each.
Last sale of the fully-paids on the
market, which is apparently prepared to
wait for its benefits, was at 66sj, at which
figure the return is 3.6 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
distribution. Buyers have since offered
61$. 6d., but sellers remain in their shell.
The contribs. at 565. yield 3.8 p.c. on a
12 p.c. distribution, or 4.1 p.c. should
the other 2s. be asked for. On a fully-
paid basis, net tangible backing per share
is visibly 235. 9d.
Yarra Falls, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re- Re-
.Tunc, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 87,019 10 p.c. = 09,000 18,019 145,440
1929.. 90,117 10 „ „ 70,500 19,017 105,057
1930.. 77,003 8 „ 70,500 0,608 171,560
1931.. 01,272 5 „ „ 45,000 0,272 177,832
1932.. 00,025 0 ~ „ 54,000 12,025 190,457
Stock appreciation, £20,000 .. .. 210,457
1933.. 98,093 !)p.c.= 81,000 17,093 228,150
1934.. 105.279 10 ~ „ 90,000 15,279 243,429
Flood loss, £64,088 .. .. 179,341
1935.. 102,185 8 I .c. = 72,000 30,185 209,520
1936.. 107,124 10 „ „ 90,000 17,124 226,050
1937.. 109,460 10 „ ~ 90,000 19,400 240,110
Share premiums, £49,108 .. .. 295,284
1938.. 105,271 10 p.c. = 90,140 9,125 304,409
This is the largest yarn-spinning and
woollen and worsted manufacturing busi-
ness in the Commonwealth, it used to
be part of the A.K.M.-Yarra Falls tex-
tile group, but a couple of years ago
it was decided to pursue a policy of iso-
lation, and there was a shake-out of
interlocking share interests, in which
Yarra Falls didn’t lose anything worth
worrying about in the form of income.
Though slump interrupted a run of 10
p.c. divs., the co. paid an average of
7 p.c. for the four difficult years to the
close of accounts in 1933, and exchange
and the tariff diverted to the Australian
textile manufacturer much business previ-
ously placed overseas. The 10 p.c. dis-
tributions were resumed in 1934, fol-
lowed by 8 p.c. for the next term
(money was wanted in the business to
repair flood damage), and then 10 p.c.
for each of the last three years.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, sales continued to ex-
pand, but the Arbitration Court lifted
wages in the industry, which affected the
co.’s margin on forward contracts, and
there was a steady recession in the price
of wool, which affected the co.’s stocks
of raw material. Also, there was a lot
of money represented by new plant, etc.,
much of which didn’t have a chance to
develop full earning power until about
the close of accounts. Still, after provid-
ing an unspecified amount for deprecia-
tion, the board figured net profit only
£4195 short of the previous year’s at
10.9 p.c. on average capital, as against
12.2, 11.9, 11.3, 11.6, 10.9, 7.4 and 5.7
p.c. back to 1931. The div. was kept
at 10 p.c.
To finance further expansion of the
business 98,336 new £1 shares were
issued at a premium of 10s. each shortly
before the close of accounts in 1937:
1934. 1937. 1938.
Paid capita] .. .. £900,000 £900,000 £998,330
Calls in advance .. 42,432
Creditors and deposits* 96,413 59,590 101,317
Freeholds . . . . 129,716 142,952 188.580
Plant, etc 205,156 219,840 248,411
Stocks 221,102 320,881 318,104
Sundry debtors. . . . 98,100 90,057 114,097
Advances, etc. . . . . 16,899 48,111 58,300
Cash, etc 114,068 40,597 38,545
Shares in other cos. . . 521,169 446,069 509,305
* Including tax provision.
The new share and premium money, to-
gether with an extra £41,721 from sundry
creditors, etc., went £45,634 net into free-
holds, £28,565 net plant, £18,040 debtors’
balances, £10,189 advances and £63,236
shares in other cos. Stocks were down
£2777, reflecting the drop in the price
of wool. When the books closed the
more or less liquid surplus was £427,729,
or only £18,321 less than at the previous
balance, despite the additions to fixed
assets and shareholdings. Chief share-
holding is 449,994 £1 shares in Globe
Mills, Marrickville (N.S.W.), where 870
names are on the payroll. At its own
mills at Abbotsford (Vic.) the co. em-
ploys over 1350 hands.
Extensions to both plants, efficiency of
which is the watchword of the manage-
ment, are now complete, a satisfactory
volume of orders is in hand, and the
current term’s figures should benefit.
These figures, however, will further feel
the effects of the wage increase already
referred to, of extra taxation and ot
national-insurance contributions. Still,
prospects of the co. being able to main-
tain the 10 p.c. div. are encouraging.
Since the beginning of 1938 the scrip
has fluctuated between 395. 3d. and 355.
in the market. At 365. 6d., which was
the figure last week-end, the return is
5.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Exclud-
ing £16,396 in suspense account, some oi
all of which may be genuine profit, the
cover is visibly 265. Id. in net tangibles
Hordern Bros., Ltd. (Sydney)
( Dividends N Towards
i* ref's. lie- Rr-
.Jlily, Profit. 9 p.c. Ords. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928. .42,596 9,000 6 p.c. - 13,000 20.090 019
1929.. 43.046 9,000 0 „ „ 13,500 20,540 21,165
Preliminary exes., £3275 .. .. 17,890
9 & 8 p.c.*
1930.. 27.725 12,939 4 p.c. = 9,000 5,780 23,070
1931. .17,319 17,000 Nil 319 23.995
1932.. 28.231 14,291 0 p.c. = 13,500 440 24,435
1933. .30,207 13,175 0 „ „ 13,500 3,532 27,907
1934. .31,007 13,175 0 „ „ 13,588 4,244 82,211
1935. .34,800 13,175 6 „ „ 13,009 8,010 40,227
1930.. 39.048 13,175 0 „ ~ 14,124 11,749 51,970
1987.. 42.313 13,175 0 ~ ~ 14,580 14,008 00,584
1988. .44,497 13,175 0 ~ „ 14,580 10,792 88,376
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October, 1931.
This big drapery co. has an able man-
agement, which means shrewd buying
combined with a tight hold upon out-
goings and good service ; its finances are
sound, and the store, situated in one
of the busiest blocks in the city, is
bright. There is £442,175 of capital to
feed in 100,000 first 9 p.c. and a like
number of second 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and
242,175 ords. Under the N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act, which has out-
lived the conditions it was originally
designed to meet, the pref. divs. are
reduced to 6.9 p.c. and 6.2 p.c. respec-
tively, with the right to advance beyond
these levels to original contract rates
point for point with the ords.
For over a decade the board’s policy
has been to keep the ord. div. at 6 p.c.
and strengthen reserves. The aim is a
sound one, but while it continues and the
Act just referred to remains in force the
prefs. are unable’to receive their full
contract rates, although last year’s net
earnings were sufficient to enable full
pref. rates to be paid, and then show
11.3 p.c. on ord. capital, as against
10.4 p.c. for the previous term. On the
basis of last year’s earnings, payment of
full pref. rates and 9 p.c. to the ords.
(they would have to receive this rate
before the first prefs. could also receive
9 p.c.) would leave only £5702 for
reserves, whereas full pref. rates and
6 p.c. to the ords. would leave £12,967
to put on the shelf. Actually the amount
sent to reserves was £16,792, which raised
the pile £83,376 in excess of goodwill
(£48,093), not treated as an asset herein.
At the moment the Act stands in the way
of the board being able to pay the prefs.
their full contract rates and at the same
time pursue its obviously sound financial
policy.
Another effect has been to keep down
the capital value of the prefs. in the
market, which prices the firsts at 275. 3d.
and the seconds at 255., at which figures
the return is approximately 5 p.c. in each
case. To obtain the same return from
the full contract rates, the price would
be 365. firsts and 325. seconds. The ords.
are not listed. The net tangible cover is
£5 ss. Id. firsts, £4 ss. Id. seconds and
265. lid. ords.
Here are balance-sheet figures, which
reflect all-round expansion of business:
1 QOQ IQI-V IQQ7 IQQQ
Paid capital. . £325,000 £427,825 £442'175 £442,175
Mortgage 1 f 100,333 100,333
Overdraft, etc. 1 325,646 193,614 i 23.320 31,087
Sundry cred.* J [ 82,430 86,024
Premises I , i - „ 1S , ns i-s ) 310,332 310.501
Fittings, etc. j d 40&,1<8 l 88,017 90,880
Stocks . . 200,291 150,441 185,055 205,688
Book debts .. 47,894 55,920 70,565 82,258
Mortgages, etc. f „ „ - . ( 56,258 58,874
Cash .. ( 01 - 7 aS.IOO | 12,490 3,810
* Including tax provision.
Chief movements last term were the
addition of £20,033 to stocks, valued “on


X89
THIS IS THE PLAN !
</
O
U-
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY LIMITED
INCORPOBATED IN ENGLAND
a conservative basis,” and £11,693-to
debtors’ balances. Including stocks, the
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£132,586) was £13,701.
During the current term, trading
promises to be more difficult, costs, in-
cluding the wage bill and taxation, are
still on the up-grade, and national insur-
ance contributions will begin from the
commencement of 1939. It is doubtful
whether much, if any, further improve-
ment in profit need be looked for.
Drug Houses of Australia
Towards ,
Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1931.. 51,811 2 p.c. = 46,730 5081 3814
Written off, £1065 4879
1932.. 60,069 24 p.c. = 63,071 7881
Unexplained reductions, £1129 .. 9010
1933.. 38,133 11 p.c. = 80,499 7634 1376
Reserves.
1934.. 88,112 34 „ „ 85.397 2715 1333
1935.. 123,581 5 „ „ 121,996 1585 2924
Tax refund, £2332 .. .. .. 6256
1936.. 147,108 6 p.c. = 146,394 714 5970
Unexplained addition, £2187 .. 8157
1937.. 158,878 64 p.c. = 158,594 284 8441
1938.. 159,331 64 ~ „ 158,594 737 9178
This is the holding co. which amalga-
mated the interests of half a dozen of
the leading drug houses in the Common-
wealth in 1929. The operating cos. in
the group are:
A. M. Bickford and Sons (Adelaide and
Brisbane); Elliotts and Australian Drug
(Sydney); Felton, Grimwade and Duerdins
(Melbourne); Felton, Grimwade Dental Co.
(Melbourne); Felton, Grimwade and Bick-
ford (Perth); Taylors, Elliotts and Aus-
tralian Drug (Brisbane, Rockhampton and
Townsville); Drug Houses of Australia Ex-
port, Ltd. (London).
The idea behind the merger was to miti-
gate the effects of aggressive competi-
tion, reduce overhead and gain advan-
tages on the buying side. Slump upset
original calculations, but earnings have
stepped along with (he improvement in
conditions, and the div. has advanced
from If p.c. for 1933 to 6| p.c. for each
of the last two terms. But the holding
co.’s accounts leave out of the reckoning
undistributed earnings of the subsidiaries.
A more reliable idea of the earning
capacity of the organisation is provided
by the next table, which shows aggregate
net profit, etc., of the operating con-
cerns: —
,—Dividencls--,
Net Drug To Re- Re-
Profit. Pref. Houses. serves, serves.*
£ £> £ $L $L
1931.. 47,718 6000 56,709 189,954
Unexplained reduction, £15,707 . . 174,247
1932.. 67,568 6000 63,921 171,894
Unexplained addition, £B3O .. .. 172,724
1933.. 61,613 6000 53,971 1,642 174,300
Unexplained reduction, £9515.. .. 164,851
1934.. 118,224 6000 95,414 16,810 181,061
1935.. 155,360 6000 130,388 18,972 200,633
Unexplained addition res., £5635 . . 206,268
1936 184,060 6000 154,140 )„ w 22 5,868
Inter-co. divs., £4320 3
Unexplained reduction res., £6,163.. 219,705
Unexplained reduc. goodwill, £BOO .. 220,505
1937 196,198 6000 165,910 ) 642 236>U7
Inter-co. divs., £8640 )
Unexplained additions, £537 .. .. 236,684
1938.. 180,203 6000 165,144 ) RM
Inter-co. divs., £ll,BBO ) 433,aw
* After deducting goodwill, £146,380.
The organisation turns out much of its
requirements from its own factories,
thus gathering a wholesale as well as a
retail profit. During the last term, trade
continued to- expand, but costs, mainly
wages and raw materials, increased, and
after providing an unspecified amount
for depreciation, etc., and £37,515 (down
£1830) for taxation, declared net earn-
ings were £15,995 lighter at £180,203, or
9.9 p.c. on aggregate capital of
£1,814,016, of which £75,000, carrying a
cumulative 8 p.c., is not owned by the
holding co. Deducting this preference
charge, inter-company divs. and the hold-
ing co.’s own exes, (together £23,693), the
£156,510 that remained was £2084 less
than the 6| p.c. div. on the holding co.’s
own £2,439,912 of capital called for. On
the same basis of calculation, the margin
was £15,926 on the right side for the
previous term.
Balance-sheet figures reflect continued
expansion of the business:
Operating Cos/ Aggregate Figures.
1931. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid £ £ £ £
capitalf. . 1,626,297 1,794,016 1,794,016 1,814,016
Overdrafts 451,452 84,863 113,162 235,587
Deposits. . 109,774 201,713 185,397 175,195
Sundry
creditors. 454,581 209,991* 271,661* 278,175*
Freehold,
leasehold,
plant .. 706,887 738,204 730,844 763,251
Investments 260,605 264,811 277,763 276,664
Government
securities,
etc. . . 12,050 2,400 2,400 2,400
Stock . . 836,094 689,220 820,997 865,491
Debtors .. 1,011,015 875,916 864,789 908,037
Cash . . 6,258 1,712 3,082 3,799
* Excluding inter-company debts,
t Includes £75,000 not owned by holding co.
To add £32,407 net to the book value
of fixed assets, £44,494 to stocks, £43,248
to debtors and reduce the amount held
on deposit by £10,202, the board went to
its bankers for an extra £122,425, added
£6514 to the amount coming to sundry-
creditors, and gathered an extra £20,000
of share capital from the holding co.
Excluding investments, which are shares
in subsidiaries, the more or less liquid
surplus was £1,090,770, or £30,278 less
than at the previous balance.
As for the current term, appearances
are that it will be no easy matter for the
organisation to net more than enough to
cover the holding co.’s 6| p.c. distribu-
tion. The market, which thinks the 61
p.c. is unlikely to be interfered with,
prices the holding co.’s pound shares at
255. 6d., at which figure the return is
5.1 p.c. on the basis of last year’s distri-
bution. The net tangible backing is a
shade over 16s. per share.
Kampong Lanjut Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Owning two low-cost dredges, com-
bined monthly capacity 500,000 c.y.,
prospective life of this member of Anglo-
Oriental’s Malayan team is around 13
years at last term’s rate of turnover.
There are no especial dredging difficul-
ties, though some limestone, schist and
clay are present in parts.
The property adjoins Kuala Kampar’s
at Mukum Kampar, Perak. At the out-
set, in 1929, 71,000,000 c.y. of.ilb. wash
was estimated to be available. Check-
boring in 1936 increased that figure,
with additions, to 90,000,000 c.y. at the
end of that term, but average t.o. con-
tent was reduced to 0.261 b. Recoveries
have never got within more than 67 p.c.
of the higher estimate. On the other
hand, yields over the last two or three
years have been considerably better than
the revised figure. Shareholders would
be able to appraise prospects a little
better were percentage of recoveries to
bore values broadcast.
Judged from the low values indicated
by checkboring, earnings threaten to be
very susceptible to tin-price movements.
Last term the domestic quota release
went up from 68| p.c. to 73| p.c. of
assessment (1482 tons t.o. p.a.), better-
grade ground was encountered and earn-
ings were further helped by improved
average prices. The net result, includ-
ing £2259 of sundry income, sprang
£6516 to £68,322 stg., the best yet:
Year to r —Profit—y—Dividends— N
March, Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
£ £ £ £
. f 42,958 33,972 8,986 -/7 1/- 15,000
1935.. New bucket-band written off, £9796.
j 95,537 54,994 40,543 2/8 1/6 22,500
1930.. ( Reserve bucket-band renewal, £6500.
7 ( 143,246 83,440 61,806 4/1 2/6 37,500
| Reserve bucket-band renewal, £5500.
Q „ s j 158,000 89,678 68,322 4/6 4/- 60,000
| rp Q reserve bucket-band renewal, £6OOO.
• Including depreciation: £13,754, 1935; £13,433,
1930; £26,575, 1937; £25,826, 1038.
That was after depreciating fixed assets
on a scale fhat would wipe them off the
books in nine years. Divs. of 4s. (=2O
p.c.) per share absorbed £60,000, and a
further £6OOO was sent to new bucket-band
reserve (now £9513), which had been
tapped for £8487 during the year.
Operating results record a sharp rise
in unit working costs:
1936. 1937. 1935.
Domestic quota . . 51.5 68.7 73.7
Cubic yards dredged 4.646,000 6,119,000 5,899,000
T. 0., tons .. .. 672,4 1074.1 1126.5
ltecovery per cubic
yard, pound . . 0.32 0.39 0.43
Assay, p.c. .. 75.8 75.8 75.6
Costs per c.y., pence 2.03 2.05 2.77*
Net ore realisation.
ton .. .. £135/6/9 £134/13/4 £139/3/5
Singapore average
metallic tin, ton .. £213/3/9 £209/18/4 £219/9/7
* Including provision tor bucket-band renewal.
For the first time costs include the pro-
vision for new bucket-lines. Both plants
were closed down portion of the year for
considerable repairs and renewals, in-
cluding fitting of a new band to No. 1
machine.
Since the close of accounts the co. has
b6en in wash approximating the average
(Continued on next page.)


1
ALLURING LAND OF
BEAUTY-
CONTRAST - INTEREST
See South Africa—Land of colour,
adventure and romance —of vivid
contrasts, enthralling beauty, and
golden sunshine. From the aba
sorbing interest in the wild-animal
life and the native kraals, to the
grandeur of the scenery, South
Africa will hold you in her spell.
She offers, too, all the comforts
of modern civilization with a
modern transport system, to give
you the holiday of a lifetime!
Call in en route to England.
55
S<Sn 3**
•••V.
£*3
ft*
THE WATER CARRIER
Obtain full particulars to-day from all offices of
DALGETY & CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
Ag ents South African Railways throughout Australia and New Zealand
*
m
mi
m
The Unexpectedly
EMPTY CHAIR
Not the title of a Novel, but a cheerful
discussion of an ever-present problem
A CHEERFUL discussion, because we offer a happy solution. First
of all, a question: If you should die to-morrow, would your widow
be able to carry on?
If you should die to-morrow —or next year what would be the
minimum income that she would need? Two pounds a week—three,
four? Think it out. Don’t under-estimate the amount. Let us say
three pounds. You can arrange with the A.M.P. to-day that she shall
have that income for life, even though you should die next year, next
week, or even to-morrow. Alternatively, you can arrange that, after
you reach 60, the pair of you shall have that income as long as you
live, and then, pass three or four thousand pounds on to your children.
You do not have to wait till you have saved the necessary capital
to make certain of this income; you can make certain of it to-day and
pay for it at convenient periods so long as you live.
A cheerful thought? Then act on it. Ask the nearest A.M.P. office
to send an experienced man to show you how little this comfort will
cost you. Do it to-day. Even to-morrow may be too late.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
D. E. Walker, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte,
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt. '
* * * *
ORES.—Try O. T. L'EMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Hounsfleld*
“TENSOMETER,” a portable testing machine —in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
LUDOWICI LEATHER BELTING
fds
Gives many years of Trouble-free Service
Ludowici Leather Belting of all types gives long
life and absolute dependability even under the
most difficult operating conditions.
Made from Ludowici tanned and matched first-
grade leather, and with all joints and plys water-
proof cemented, every Ludowici Leather Belt is
guaranteed replacement free against defective
workmanship and material. Made and guaranteed by
I. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 York Street, Sydney
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
of the property. Production to the end
of Sept, was 321 J tons t.o. from
2,858,000 c.y., a mean recovery of 0.251 b.
A 6d. div. was sent out in July.
Financially, the co. is well buttressed.
More or less liquids at March 31
amounted to £139,721 stg., of which
£113,290 was held in cash. Only £8503
was owed outsiders, leaving surplus
liquids equal to Bs. 9d. per £1 share.
Paid capital is £300,000, the scrip fetch-
ing 235. on Australian ’Changes. .
Conversion and Defence Loans
Within the next couple of weeks a
Commonwealth-wide campaign will be
launched for the conversion of
£67,600,000 of Government paper which
matures in December —£61,400,000 of it
now bears interest at 4 p.c. and
£6,200,000' at 3 p.c. This conver-
sion, which has been underwritten by
the Commonwealth Bank, will be a
straightout par offer of new securities
bearing interest at £3 17s. 6d. p.c. for 16
years, with the Government’s right to
redeem in part or whole after 14 years.
The terms accord favorably with the
market for comparable stock, and there
will be a small saving to the Gov-
ernment, which is paying an average of
£3 18s. on the two maturing issues com-
bined.
At the same time the Federal Govern-
ment is asking for £4,000,000 of new
money, same terms, for additional air-
craft, ammunition of all kinds, machine
guns, anti-aircraft guns and other equip-
ment.
When State Premiers were asked to
divert some of their loan expenditure to
works of national defence value, and to
co-operate with the national Govern-
ment, the conference broke up. Premier
Stevens wanted more and bigger public
works in N. S. Wales, larger expenditure
on defence, and lower rates of interest
for the people who put up the money.
At the same - time he advocated an in-
flationary policy of finance.
The Hunt for Oil
The agreement between Oil Search,
which had become financially exhausted
after a long but inconclusive hunt for
oil in Australia and New Guinea, and
Anglo-Iranian and Standard-Vacuum,
which embrace British and American in-
terests and are the two most powerful
oil undertakings in the world, is a piece
of good work on which shareholders can
congratulate the management. It ensures
continued and thorough testing of two
oil permits, not yet adequately pros-
pected, in New Guinea and Papua, in
which Oil Search will retain a one-third
interest at no immediate additional cost,
while at the same time gaining funds
(about £45,000) with which to further its
other prospecting interests, chief of which
are Drillers, Ltd., Kamilaroi Oil, Gas
Drillers and* a holding in New Zealand
Petroleum.
To deal with the permits referred to,
Australian Petroleum Co. Pty. has been
registered in Melbourne with a nominal
capital of £1,000,000 in £1 shares, of
which Vacuum Oil, Melbourne (a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Standard-Vacuum
Oil, New York), and D’Arcy Explora-
tion, London (a wholly-owned subsidiary
of Anglo-Iranian Oil, London), will each
take 135,000 for cash, and Nominated
Holdings Pty., Sydney (wholly-owned
subsidiary of Oil Search, Sydney), will
receive 135,000 fully-paids, plus its cash
expenditure on the areas, etc., amounting
to about £45,000. Australian Petroleum
will thus start with a working capital of
approximately £225,000. The Vacuum co.
has the right to introduce another share-
holding co., which would also be obliged
to take up 135,000 shares for cash. Each
shareholding co. has the right to nominate
two directors to the board, and to take
up additional capital as required on a
pro rata basis. If it fails to maintain
its proportionate interest its represen-
tation on the board is to be reduced, or
will cease altogether if its interest falls
below 8 1-3 p.c. Whether oil will be
tapped in commercial quantities on the
areas in question only the drill can deter-
mine. All that can be said definitely at
the moment is that the ground will be
adequately tested, and that the possible
prize makes the venture, though specu-
lative, worth while.
Shareholders in Oriomo Oil are in-
terested by reason of that co.’s holding
in Oil Search, approximately 2| Oil
Search shares for every one Oriomo
share.
The D’Arcy Exploration Co. recalls
the name of W. K. D’Arcy, who made
his first pile out of the old Mt. Morgan
Co. (Q.), and then, in 1901, obtained
from the Iranian Government an oil-
prospecting concession out of which
grew the big Anglo-Iranian Co., which
used to be the Anglo-Persian Oil Co.
Over the last few weeks Oil Search’s
5s.-paid shares fell from 8s. 9d. to 7s. in
the market, owing mainly to lack of
speculative support following announce-
ment of the deal.
Lake View and Star (W.A.) has its next
annual roll-up in London on Nov. 2. The
accounts to be presented are for the year
ended June 30, 1938, and are expected to
show a net profit of roughly £460,000
sterling. Ore reserves are now nearly six
years ahead of the 55,000-tons-a-month
treatment plant. Mines now operated by
the co. comprise the Lake View, Ivanhoe,
Golden Horseshoe, Chaffers, Hannans
Star, Associated and Imperial. More than
a million pounds’ worth of gold in Aus-
tralian currency has been won from these
properties since the beginning of the
present calendar year. For the first
quarter of the current term ore treatment
has run at the rate of 660,000 tons p.a.,
and the mine surplus was £A 156,928.
m * * *
Pilbara, Westralia’s one and only tan-
talite field, is going ahead. At Wodgina
the deposit is in the form of a pegmatite
vein extending over a length of 2500ft.,
and mined to a depth of about 50ft. The
product is shipped from Port Hedland.
Tabba, the other producing centre, is
believed to be the only place in the world
where white tantalite (tantalite of alu-
minium) is mined.
* * * *
Dunaas (W.A.) has thus far drawn
blanks. Its first unsuccessful gamble was
at Buldania in 1932. Some time in 1934
it moved to Ora Banda, and had another
there. Still later luck went against it at
Yellowdine. According to the chairman,
the co. is looking for something else on
which put remaps of its money.
* * * *
Swau Bitters old m,.,e at Jonesville
(W.A.) is dead and buried, and the board
recently announced that, unless the new
venture at Mt. Magnet proves a dis-
appointing geological freak, more regular
divs. should shortly be put into share-
holders’ pockets.
* * * *
Carbine Gold Mines, N.L., is having
another gamble in the West; this time
on a block adjoining the Groundlark at
Norseman, where three shallow shafts
have been sunk on a 15dwt. reef.


SMOKE-OH!
Pathological.
“He stated that he would never have stolen
the goods if he had not been suffering from
nervous debility.”— Court item.
Oh, let us not defile his name,
All kindliness forsaking,
For, after all, we shouldn’t blame
A nervous man for shaking!
T. W. N.
•b *l* »b *b
“Violinist, as a child, threw a fiddle at her
father.”
Lucky for him she wasn’t a pianist.
•b *b *b *b
“England wants our egg pulp.”— News item.
Does this mean that she scorns the
foreign yolk?
•b *b *b *b
“In Michigan, U.S.A., it is illegal for a
woman to lift her skirt more than six inches
while dodging puddles.”— “World's News.”
Much, of course, depends on the length
of the skirt.
*b *b *b *b
“My husband confessed that he loved beer
more than anything else in life.”
—Wife in divorce suit.
A consuming passion.
•b *b *b *b
“Deafness should be regarded as one of
life’s greatest afflictions.” — Sydney doctor.
Unless, of course, the afflicted has a
nagging wife.
•b *b *b *b
“Everyone in the racing game is super-
stitious.” — Sydney weekly.
Even seasoned punters hate to see their
horses come home thirteenth.
•b *b *b *b
“After the crowd left Randwick racecourse
cleaners found, among the rubbish, a roast
turkey in a parcel.”
No doubt the punter came along in-
tending to give the books the bird.
•b *b *b *b
“Owing to a disagreement with the chairman,
representatives of the Master Hairdressers
“Slip over to the shop , Bert, and get another stick of solder."
walked out of the Hairdressers’ Apprenticeship
Council meeting.”
They got the oil from the chair that
they weren’t wanted, so they cut proceed-
ings short and left.
•b *b *b *b
“Medical authorities say that the eyes of all
white babies are blue at birth.”
— “World’s News.”
They blacken later as life becomes
more colorful.
*** *!•
Time marches on —in many cases with
a wedding-ring as its brass band.
•b *b *b *b
‘Fish is easily digested.”— Medical note.
Much more easily than the yarns about
how they were caught.
4* b + b
“The occupants of the car escaped with a
severe shaking.”— “S. M. Herald.”
We’ve been out in cars like that, too.
•b •b *b •b
“A man has walked 400 miles to be in
Melbourne for the Cup.” —News item.
So he intends to walk it both ways.
(Transferred from Service Dept.)
“Can anyone help me get rid of fleas? I
nave tried kerosene. Should 1 fumigate under
the house?”—“D.7\” correspondent.
Fumigation is wasted effort, whether
you do it under the house, in your room
or on the roof. Here is a method which
proved efficient in the N.S.W. western
Riverina, where fleas once were so thick
that visiting doctors thought the whole
population had measles: Before retiring,
place by the bed a bowl of goldfish.
Disrobe, rub the entire body well with
table salt and hop into bed. In no time
the fleas, maddened with thirst, will be
rushing the free drinks, whereupon the
goldfish do their stuff and you rest in
peace.
O. D.
„b -I* *b *b
“With events in Europe moving so rapidly,
atlas-makers are experiencing difficulty in keep-
ing their publications up to date.” — News item.
One solution is to apply the loose-leaf
system to the map of Europe.
•b »b *b *b
“The courtroom resembled an auction-room.”
—Press item.
And doubtless the prisoner hoped the
sergeant would be knocked down.
•I* *b *b *b
“Man Charged After Creating Disturbance
in Laundry.”— "Daily Telegraph.”
He probably went there, deliberately, to
get his shirt out.
•b 4* *b 4b
“He was an astute criminal who made a
specialty of stealing only cigarettes.”
—News story.
After a haul, of course, he’d go into
smoke.
•b *b 4b *b
“When Europe’s dictators unbend they are
the most genial of men they are polite and
attentive hosts.” — News item.
When dictators relax, they say,
Their manners are most charming.
Urbane and courteous men are they —
But their smiles are not disarming.
Leon.
•b *b *b *b
Moving Time.
One of the disadvantages of spring is
that the migratory impulse, so evident in
other birds, comes to Maria.
“How long do you expect me to go
on living in this hole?” she asks. “Any-
thing is good enough for your wife, of
course. Well, if you like to stop here you
can ; I’ll go and live by myself.”
I dare not say how pleasant such
a prospect would be to me. Instead I
go home-hunting, and pay a deposit on
a place that she votes “just the thing”—
until after the deposit is paid. Then the
disadvantages become manifest.
“Yes, of course! That is just the sort
of place you’d like your wife to live in!
With those vulgar people next door —
didn’t you see them? No! I expect they
are your style. Anyway, simply because
you wanted to rush in and pay a deposit,
you’re not going to drag me there!”
Eventually she picks on a place that
is “a regular palace compared with the
hovel you picked,” and hurries matters
in a way that costs a week’s rent.
“That Mrs. Potts next door is such an
interesting woman,” says Maria. “I’m
going to town to the pictures to-morrow
with her. And the Jiggers on the other
side play bridge. I’ve invited them for
a game to-night. I think we’ll be quite
happy here.”
Of course we stop there —until Maria
has a bust-up with Mrs. Potts, and then
I get it.
“If you’d have been any sort of a
man you’d not have dragged me into this
filthy hovel. But that’s all you care how
I get knocked up putting a place in
order, and you know the doctor told me
1 had to have rest and quiet, etc.”
We usually really settle down into a
place a week before we’re due for the
next spring move.
H. M.
4* 4*
The friends you buy never last as
long as those you make yourself.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The mining market was not very impres-
sive.” —News item.
Mining, after all, is a boring affair.
, + 4* + +
“Money is healthy only when it moves.”
—Financial writer.
Yet when your last bob rolls down a
drain you feel a bit sick,
4* 4* 4*
“The 1938 Melbourne Cup will be ham-
mered out of pure gold.” —News item.
That takes a lot of beating.
Cause and Effect.
“A visiting American medico who makes a
scientific study of facial and other physical
characteristics in relation to climate finds that
Australians have remarkably long faces. During
his stay he intends to find out the cause of it.”
The learned gent, is here to solve a
problem, \
One that intrigues his scientific soul ;
He has frankly intimated that our clocks
are elongated,
And to find the why and wherefore is
his goal.
It seems that undeniable the fact is
That our chins are growing closer to
our chests;
With all Aussies it’s a feature. In no
other human creature
Is it manifest —or so the doc. suggests.
He intends exploring possible causations,
Such as habits, race, inheritance and
clime
And various kindred phases. But he’ll
just be out to blazes
And be wasting lots of valuable time.
I We can tell him here and now the very
reason
{A kindly gesture which should earn
his thanks):
Our lugubrious, lengthy dials have been
caused by all our trials —
Not the least of which are scientific
Yanks.
BO.
I Was a Legionnaire.
VI.
As time went on our training became
increasingly severe. To test us thor-
oughly for future desert campaigns we
were taken on 500-mile route “marches,”
which had to be done at a fast double
all the way except between sundown and
dark, when we were allowed to jogtrot.
It was through sand all the way ; the
Legion never uses roads, as they would
make the troops too “soft.”
Interspersed with marches were exer-
cises in the advanced use of arms, such
as bayonet practice, range-firing and
mock skirmishes. It was during one of
the latter that occurred one of those un-
fortunate incidents apropos of which
suspicious people are too often prone to
impute ulterior motives to the innocent
cause of them.
We had been issued with blank cart-
ridges in special bandoliers for this opera-
tion, which necessitated our company
being split in two. Our half, under com-
mand of the corporal, was to deploy
around a sandhill, where we were to
await and, if possible, beat off an “at-
tack” by the other half under Sergeant
Vinblanc.
After we were in position the corporal
explained to us that his strategy was to
fling out several forward scouts who
would “contact” the enemy and fight a
rearguard action in such a way as to
lure the “enemy” into a position where
they would be ambushed by the “de-
fenders.” I was one of the scouts, and
was flung further out and more violently
than any of the other scouts merely be-
cause I stuck up for my rights and de-
manded a special issue of half a gallon
of vin ordinaire owing to the dangerous
work I was called on to perform.
My orders were to make myself
momentarily conspicuous to the “enemy,”
and, after firing a few quick rounds at
them, to withdraw gradually, fire again,
withdraw and so on, finally retiring to
the low sand-dunes behind which the
main body of troops was hiding. In
other words, I was to be the decoy.
I reached a hillock and threw myself
down —not without a preliminary struggle
—to await the “enemy’s” coming. In a
“ What happened to the bloke you
donated a pint of blood to?”
“Poor cow died of alcoholic
poisoning!”
few minutes I had dozed right off. Now
this happened in a most peculiar manner.
1 carried with me as an inseparable com-
panion a pocket volume on hypnotism,
a science that I had experimented with
a good deal, and in which I was fast be-
coming expert. I remember taking the
book out and reading it, and then set-
ting up my small hand mirror against
my rifle and practising on myself. The
next thing I didn’t know was that I was
asleep!
How long I slept I have no idea, but
I awoke suddenly, my keen military sense
warning me that troops were marching
near by. My sensitive ear caught the
unmistakable frou-frou of boots trudg-
ing through sand —or is frou-frou the
sound made by a woman’s skirt? Any-
way, what does it matter?
I looked up and saw, bearing down on
me from the middle distance, the half
company led by Sergeant Vinblanc.
Swifter than thought—for I had it done
before my brain, which is never at its
best before nightfall, started to function
—I had .dived my hand into my bando-
lier, extracted a cartridge, rammed it in
the breech, gave myself the order “rapid
fire” and pulled the trigger. Almost in-
stantly I saw a spurt of sand shoot up
at the sergeant’s feet.
In a flash I had extracted another, re-
peated my peremptory order and again
pulled the trigger, and immediately after
saw the sword with which Sergeant Vin-
blanc was waving on his troops suddenly
reduced in length to six inches above the
hilt. Even then I didn’t wake up,
figuratively and literally, to what I was
doing. Once again I loaded and fired,
and this time the sergeant’s kepi swung
around on his head.
It was then I realised the carelessness
of which I had unwittingly been guilty.
As I have mentioned before, 1 always
kept my ordinary bandolier next to my
skin. In going on these manoeuvres I
had completely forgotten it. The bando-
lier containing the blank cartridges I also
had, of course, but this was outside my
tunic. In the sudden alarum on awaken-
ing I had, from sheer force of habit,
dived my hand into my inner bandolier
and had therefore been using ball cart-
ridges.
The expression on the face of the ter-
rible Sergeant Vinblanc as his sword was
almost shot out of his hand and his kepi
nearly shot off his head sent me into such
paroxysms of uncontrollable laughter
that I just managed to stagger away as
the attacking force reached the slope of
the hill. As I was making my way back
to the main force the thought again
struck me, and I shrieked and fell for-
ward on my face, a helpless victim of my
mirth. When I did get back the corporal
commended me for my acting ability, but
expressed dubiety as to whether a realistic
imitation of falling in battle was exactly
opportune at that moment.
Of course, there was a devil of a row
when the manoeuvres were over. Fortu-
nately, other scouts had also fired, and
owing to my prudent action in losing
three of my blank cartridges I was able
to prove a sound case and swear truth-
fully that I knew nothing about it; after
all, anyone half-awake cannot be ex-
pected to be aware of what he is doing.
I also advanced to the officer presiding
at the inquiry the thoughtful theory that
a vengeful Toureg, hiding in a near-by
palm-tree, might have taken advantage of
the firing to take a pot-shot at the ser-
geant. Indeed, I was prepared to swear
that I heard a palm-leaf rustle.
The whole thing eventually blew over,
but the sergeant’s hatred for me was
more murderous than ever. Yet behind
his implacable malevolence I was %ure I
detected signs of a lurking fear every
time he looked at me.
S.W.K.


Yarra Falls at 355. 6d.
Yarra Falls shares were down to
355. 6d. last week in Melbourne
and Sydney, yielding £5 13s. p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The price
is the lowest for years.
fc:Vr.V£
FT
SPRING
FAIR
COMMENCES
MARCH 5,
1939.
Comprising General
Samples, Textiles,
Office Equipment,
Furniture, Photo-
graphic, Sports
Goods, Great
Engineering and
Building Fairs,
(GREATER
GERMANY)
EVERY MANUFACTURER . . .
EVERY STOREKEEPER . . .
The Leipzig Fair not only offers the finest values in the newest, best
and most uncommon things—it gives nations an opportunity to get
to know each other better on a practical and technical basis.
Your business success depends upon successful trading or manufacturing
—Leipzig is the logical centre of wise buying.
Information, including Travel Marks and Aski Trading Marks, available
of LARS' G. BRUNDAHL, Commissioner in Australia for the Leipzig
International Industries Fair, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney;
C. N. KEPPEL, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne; J. M. BEIERS,
305 Queen Street, Brisbane; H. C. ITTERSHAGEN, S’henton Park, W.A.
AUSTRALIAN WOOL WILL BE EXHIBITED.
SECUIUTy
tQS
SkeLtet 1/ou.i. Saving
fttokitaUu . . o
An investment of impregnable strength with a liberal income
field. Such is FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST, which
has shown the benefits of “Collective Security” to hundreds of
investors. Twenty companies linked for your benefit and the
famous Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., as Custodian
Trustees.
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Getting Along Quietly
Trade activity in Australia seemed to
have lost its punch just after the con-
clusion of the sesquicentenary celebra-
tions in Sydney during the first quarter
of this year. That is probably what a
Harborside shopkeeper would have told
you three months ago ; “everybody spent
their money during the celebrations.”
However, Melbourne didn’t have these
celebrations to upset its order of things,
nor did Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth or
Hobart; those capital cities are having
almost the same sort of conditions as
prevail now in Sydney. There has been
no heavy fall anywhere, but a definite
and widespread easing-off in the trade-
expansion we were becoming accus-
tomed to is now evident.
Wool fell sharply in price at the be-
ginning of 1938 ; it had been on" a de-
cline right from the opening of the 1937-
38 season sales. There is always a lag
between developments in primary and
secondary economic factors, and Aus-
tralians are feeling the economic pinch
most noticeably , now. Employment
didn’t start to drop off until May this
year.
Though the condition of our overseas
trade is plain for all to see, the trend of
our internal economics isn’t so easy to
discern. Building activity is standing up
amazingly well. June figures for the
Commonwealth were the best for many
months. Inter-State shipping freights
keep at a high volume, and railway
traffic is being maintained. But sales
by factories and wholesalers, on the
average, show a slackening, and retail
sales have displayed a rather uncertain
tendency. In this connection savings-
bank deposits are interesting. In the
three months April-June inclusive
£4,500,000 net was added to savings-bank
deposits throughout the Commonwealth.
There were further increases in July and
August, bringing total deposits to
£241,424,000 on Aug. 31, a rise of
£9,400,000 over the year. It would cer-
tainly seem that the more thrifty of
wage-earners are becoming cautious
about the future.
Luxuries and the like have been
affected in some cases. Motor-cars have
been selling at a slower rate, though
registrations aren’t down in any marked
degree. In fact, over the whole aspect of
our internal economy, if land industries
are left out of the picture, progress figures
show only a slight, however definite, re-
adjustment so far.
Over the two years to June, 1938, Aus-
tralian trading banks increased their de-
posits by £32,000,000 and at the same
time made additional advances amount-
ing to £23,500,000. Though over this full
period the credit position would seem to
have been maintained, with low prices
now prevailing for wool and wheat the
security position isn’t so good, and
bankers are anxious about London funds.
Lately there has been a firming in
wool, following a sharp rise in metals.
A great deal depends on what further
strengthening takes place in the staple.
Wheat is too unreliable a commodity to
take much notice of in the markets these
days. Low prices seem certain for some
time.
Oil Search’s “announcement” came
out while the paragraph mentioning the
confident sharemarket bearing (B.
19/10/’3B) was going through the presses.
The bears were victorious; the market
slipped from 9s. 3d. a few days earlier to
7s. 6d. at one stage on Tuesday morning
of last week ; later there was recovery to
Bs., but on Saturday the closing quote was
6s 1 Id. Australasian Petroleum Pty. has
been formed in Melbourne to acquire the
Papuan and Mandated Territory proper-
ties held in the names of Oriomo Oil and
o*l Search respectively. Ihe Vacuum Oil
Co. will put up £135,000 (in cash) ol
A.P. s capital; D Arcy Exploration
Go. (Anglo-Iranian interests) another
£135,000; Nominated Holdings, repre-
senting the Oil Search and priomo mter-
es^s ’ will §} ven £135,000 in tree shares
ant l £45,000 in cash. Vacuum has the
nght (which must be exercised inside a
year, subject to extension) of introducing
“ It's an old army game, brethren. Two bob I head 'em!”
one other shareholding co., which may
subscribe £135,000 in cash.
Oriomo Oil, though a nominal party
to the arrangement, has no interest in
Australasian Petroleum except through its
holding of 406,796 shares in Oil Search
(approximately 2\ O.S. shares for each
Oriomo counter). Oil Search itself has
an issue of 1,329,666 ss. shares. Plainly
the real value of Oil Search shares still
depends on what results the drilling
operations of the new. influentially backed
prospecting co. produce. It will be in-
teresting to see how the alliance of inter-
ests works out.
# * * w
An encouraging lift in wool prices
continued last week. During the five
days’ selling in Sydney to October 14 the
average price realised was 10. Id. On
Monday of last week buyers went to
Brisbane and Melbourne. In Brisbane on
the opening day between lid. and 12d.
was the average price realised, as against
10.6 d. in September. Last week’s Queens-
land offerings were mostly well-grown,
in dry condition, and fairly free from
burrs, etc. Clearances were good, with
firming prices.
* * * *
Unemployment in Australia has begun
to rise again, after six years of reduction,
in June, 1932, the combined effect of bad
government and economic disorders pro-
duced a trade-union unemployment total
of 30 p.c. An unbroken improvement in
the position occurred until the June quar-
ter of this year. A “low” of 8 p.c. had
been reachedj by March ; in June the fig-
ure had lifted to 8.6 p.c., and at the end
of September to 9.2 p.c. Most pleasing
aspect of that latest figure is that it was
no worse than a year ago. The trend is
nevertheless dieconcerting, as are many
other trends at the moment —costs, inter-
nal’prices and taxation particularly.
In factories, the estimated number of
people employed during 1937-38 was 7
p.c. greater than in the preceding year
and 24 p.c. greater than in 1928-29. In
1937-38 the employment index rose
steadily for the first six months, but
showed a decline in the last half-year,
closing at about 5 p.c. above the average
for 1936-37.
* # * *
Maintenance of B.H.P.’s interim div.
at the rate of 12| p.c. p.a. was neither
more nor less than what the co.’s produc-
tion figures and the board’s apparent
dividend policy had indicated in advance.
* * * It
An interesting development last week
was the lifting of Australian Glass’s
interim div. from 6 p.c. to 7 p.c. Usually
6 p.c. and 9 p.c. go out each year, so the
market is toying with the question of
what this term’s final div. will be. The
scrip lifted to a record of £5, Sydney
buyers forcing the pace. Earnings for
the term to March 31 last were 29.2 p.c.
on ord. capital.
♦ * * *
The industrial sharemarkets in Aus-
tralia have kept to a steady level now
for just over three weeks. Last Thurs-
day a very firm tone was evident;
though turnover was not particularly
large, it was noticeably well spread.
Second-line stocks especially were up on
recent levels. Slower to fall during the
war scare, they have also lagged in
recovery. Last week-end 8.H.P., British
Tobacco, Tooth and Henry Jones, for
instance, were at about the level reached
a day or two after the Munich Agree-
ment was signed. Kandos Cement and
Australian Cement, on the other hand,
reached their best levels for some time,
while North Coast Steam (N.S.W.) lifted
9d., to 41s. 6d.
* * * *
The British motor-car industry, most
sensitive barometer of business activity in
the land, has this year struck slackened
demand for its products just at the time
selling prices were raised. Austin’s net
profit fell by 33 p.c., Rover's by 15 p.c.
Recovery, it is believed, will mainly
depend on a reduction in costs and
prices; and manufacturers are turning
their attention to that problem. How soon
will it be before some of our own manu-
facturers are faced with the same
problem?
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Melbourne Steam ords. were still available
in the market at 285., returning 5 p.c.
Australasian Paper ords. firmed slightly to
315., cum the 9.6 d. div. that was paid on
Monday (24th).
The industrial sharemarket was generally
better on Wednesday, and buoyancy was main-
tained on Thursday Increase in the Aus-
tralian Glass interim and better prices for
wool seemed to give encouragement.
Carlton Brewery shares, ex the recent div.,
rose to 665., then slackened to 655. 6d.
Herald shares showed a recovery to 58s.
This, like Myer Emporium, has been an un-
stable stock of recent months. Selling of estate
scrip seems to have something to do with
the periodic weaknesses.


QUALCAST”
Australian made
MOTOR
MOWER.
df
16in. cut.
and it
drives as
it cuts.
Price £34/13/-
In Seaport Capital Cities.
Australian made "Qiialcast” hand mowers
have captured and now hold the Aus-
tralian market by their efficiency, dura-
bility and cheapness. History is repeat-
ing itself now in regard to the lGln.
“Qiialcast” Australian made Motor Mower.
Write for particulars to any leading
Hardware Store or direct to the Manu-
facturers :
QUALCAST (AUST.) PTY., LTD.,
Sunshine Kond, Went lfootscray,
Melbourne, W.l‘2, Victoria.
w
. 1 :
Sii»Ni .
■
N
MWM XW***
/ * ■■■■■ M;
■jWMV I ; • t ju-;
lilwlaSi pi
: /tjwjs
t•' &* ifc *Z* O<J :-ff “•
s
mm
Vi .H
m mßf.
?- 'if-
,i-y .t
i. i n
pp*?
■’ V ■
PHHM
■■'•■
# *
i M a
t
■ nj
TO-DAY'S MOST PROFITABLE INVESTMENT.
LUNA PARK (BRISBANE) LTD.
Registered under the Companies of 1931 in the State
of Queensland.
Prospectus registered in the State of Victoria.
Registration of Prospectus applied for in the State of
New Soutii Wales.
DIRECTORS:
Chairman: Charles Stewart, Esq.,
Retiring Manager of the T'nion
Trustee Co. of • Australia, Ltd., in
Queensland.
IV. K. MoLuckie, Esq., Chairman of
Directors, Overells (Pty.), Ltd.,
Queensland.
T. M. Ahern, Esq.. Chairman
Brisbane Amateur Turf Club.
T. H. Eslick, Esq., International
Amusement Engineer (Designer and
Builder of Luna Park. Melbourne).
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £75,000.
Divided into 300,000 shares of 5/- each.
180,000 Shares of 5/- each now offered for subscription,
1/- per share on application, 1/- on allotment, and
balance at I /- a month.
AMUSEMENT PARK PROFITS IN AUSTRALIA:
L.una Park, Melbourne, 20% dividend, Luna Park, Sydney (see “Sydney
1934-35-36-37-38. Morning Herald,” December 1, 1937).
Estimated Dividends, Luna Park (Brisbane), Ltd., a minimum of 20% p.a.
WRITE TO-DAY (without obligation) for a 28-page, profusely illustrated,
detailed prospectus, printed in colours, to—
LUNA PARK (BRISBANE), LTD.,
Equitable Life Building, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
The most modern Amusement Resort in the Southern Hemisphere—built
on the finest site in Australia—for a truly amusement-loving public, in a
climate that allows of an all-the-year-around season.
THE
®s®l
GILLETTE BLADE
REGISTERED
KNOWN THE
For years Gillette engineers have grappled with the problem
of how to make tough stainless steel really sharp sharp
enough to maintain the standard established by the world’s
most famous shaving system ... the Gillette blade in the
Gillette razor.
To-day the Stainless Steel Gillette Blade is an accomplished
fact. You can buy your first packet at once and discover
for yourself how smoothly this new blade shaves you.
... And remember !.. .No Washing, No Drying, No Rusting.
Damp, steam, water, rust none of these can touch this
wonderful new Gillette. Try it . . . To-day!
k pt;
I'i'f |
Tg^P- 5
ggjg[lC%MM
: ; : ; ••'_ V_
OF ALL DEALERS ... MADE IN ENGLAND
2/- per packet of five
Periodically investors get tangled up
in their opinions about Australian paper
companies. It might be worth remind-
ing them that Australasian Paper and
Cumberland run A.P.M., which turns out
brown paper and cardboard in N. S.
Wales and Vic. ; it has no Tasmanian
factory. Associated Pulp and Paper, an
entirely separate organisation, is now in
the throes of turning out fine writing and
printing papers at Burnie (Tas.). It will
not compete with A.P.M., making as it
does an entirely different class of pro-
duct. The sharemarket pays 225. for
Associated Pulp ords. Then there is a
third enterprise the newsprint co.,
backed by metropolitan newspaper in-
terests, that proposes to turn out news-
print in southern Tasmania. This is the
concern that’s always in the news; it
was the one that asked for a duty and
instead got a bounty, plus a contingent
duty. There are no public shareholders.
**. * m
Base metals experienced a sharp set-
back in London on Tuesday of last week.
Copper fell 475. 6d. a ton, lead Bs. 9d.,
spelter ss. 6d. and tin 755. On Wednes-
day there was partial recovery in most of
them, while tin went up to its former
price of £2lO 15s. Australian base-metal
shares reacted sympathetically to both
movements. In Melbourne on Tuesday
Mt. Lyells fell 9d., to 30s. 3d., North
Broken Hills slipped 25., to 495. 6d,
Souths Is. 3d., to 325., N.B.H. Consols
9d., to 16s. 6d. On Wednesday Lyells
came up to 30s. 6d., Norths to 51s. 3d.,
Souths to 335. 3d., and N.B.H. Consols
to 17s. On Friday in London nearly all
metals were weaker again. Barriers and
Mt. Lyell kept near Wednesday’s quota-
tions, a rise in the Dow-Jones index
having some influence.
* * * *
Briseis Tin (B. 19/10/’3B) came to light
with its first div. —3d., or 5 p.c.—last
week. Last div. by the old Briseis co.
was paid in July, 1919. Much water has
gone down the Ringarooma (and over the
Briseis workings on two occasions, un-
fortunately) since then. It was a flood
that settled the old co., and another that
set back the present co. a couple of years.
Measures have been taken to prevent a
repetition of these catastrophes.
* * * *
Announcing a first div. of 2s. a share,
Phoenix Wolfram, Ltd., which reopened
the old Mount Charlsted mine in N. S.
Wales last year, also tells shareholders
that the mine has been closed down until
the price of the metal recovers. Forward
contracts protected profits until lately ;
the contracts have now been completed.
Paid capital is £6500 in ss. shares.
* * * *
Neon Signs (Australasia), Ltd., has
disclosed a profit of £4511 (allowing
£llOO for taxation) for the year to June
30 last. That represents rather less than
half of the previous year’s showing, out
of which a 10 p.c. div. was paid. This
year’s distribution drops to 4 p.c., ab-
sorbing £3BOO. Signs erected and work
in progress, £123,081, is the largest asset
in a balance-sheet total of £167,572.
“Unexpired contracts,’’ which apparently
are synonymous with “unmatured ren-
tals,” are said to amount to £145,669.
Liquid assets total £22,160, against
which there are creditors of £58,989.
Much depends on the cost at which the
unmatured rentals can be collected in
the future, and the basis, in relation to
cost of signs, on which new signs are
leased. The co. doesn’t appear to have
much up its sleeve at the moment. The
board, however, is trying to reorganise
the position. Capital is just under
£100,000; buyers offer 9s. for the £1
shares.
* H> # *
Last week in Brisbane the shares of
Howards, Ltd., were bought at 385.,
maintaining the best price paid for the
scrip in recent years. The stock has been
bought by a number of investors on this
page’s advice at prices ranging from 30s
to 355. It is one of the solidest stocks
listed in Brisbane, holding a fine stack
of revenue-producing investments apart
from its motor-car and refrigerator
business. Last term a 10 p.c. div. was
paid out of earnings disclosed at 21.5
p.c. on capital.
* * * *
Prestige, Ltd., the big Melbourne
hosiery and lingerie concern that has
Australasia-wide trade connections, has
paid an ord. interim of 2\ p.c., the same
as last year, when a total of p.c. went
out for the term. New plant, the instal-
lation of which in 1937-38 disturbed
manufacturing, should now be helping
earnings.
• * * * *
1 Steamships Trading Co., Panua (B. i
19/10/’3B), has maintained its all-round |
distribution at 10 p.c. p.a. in spite of the
lower prices for copra and rubber real-
ised during the year. Net earnings were
disclosed at £17,400, after providing
£3829 for depreciation. The previous
year’s profit was £16,314. The co.’s scrip
isn’t active, but last sales of ords. and
prefs. showed reductions over the year in
keeping with the market generally.
# * * *
Last week Kandos Cement (Sydney)
16s. shares had recovered to 265. 6d.,
which compares with 225. 6d. on Sep-
tember 28. Standard 16s. scrip was
back to 20s. In Melbourne, Aus-
tralian Cement, which experienced only
a temporary flutter in price during
the war scare, was in demand at the
steady quote of 335. 3d., returning 6 p.c.
Goliath ords. have been rather slow-
moving in Melbourne lately at 265., re-
turning 5.8 p.c.; this concern manufac-
tures very economically at Railton (Tas.),
and sells part of its output on the Vic-
torian market. The whole Australian
cement industry is doing very well at
present. Even during the slump share-
holders in Kandos and Australian
Cement had little to growl about.
# * * *
On September 12 in Britain there were
close on half a million more people out
of work than a year earlier.
Luna Park (N.S.W.), Ltd., continues
to confound critics who at the beginning
said another “White City” in Sydney
would be as big a failure as the last.
The co. in which Phillips, of St. Kilda
(Melb.), is largely interested has just
declared a 6 p.c. dividend for its last
year (not quite so good as in the preced-
ing term, when 1\ p.c. went out). And
so the big show goes on.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Grim Problem of Palestine.
[As previous “Uncabled Additions” articles have
shown, the serious trouble in Palestine, now necessitating
military action, has not cropped up overnight. There has
been increasiing deterioration in John Bull’s control of
this nuisance mandate for years; and it would have been
a very serious business if the war the sabre-rattlers
lately wanted had got going. Even in peace it is a grim,
extremely difficult problem. Of the condensed items here
given from various sources, the first, from London
"Times,” conveys an idea of the general situation; the
other items go further into the problem from the Arab
and Jewish viewpoint, as well as from the British.]
The rebel successes and the repressive measures
against them have united the Arabs as never before.
Unless a solution is quickly reached which will give
some satisfaction to Arab national aspirations, it may
be necessary to reconquer Palestine.
Mujahidin, “fighters in the Holy War,” is the
name which the rebels assume. Many have been
criminals, but the higher leaders and large numbers
of the rank and file are men who think that Islam
and Arab nationalism call them to free their country
from the foreigner. Foreign help may still be forth-
coming, but the mainstay of the movement has been
local support, and that support is more substantial
than ever.
Defence of the Jewish areas has fallen more and
more to the Jews themselves, who have recruited in the
last few weeks 1200 volunteers to supplement the super-
numeraries they had before. They find their crops in
outlying fields destroyed night after night, thousands
of trees being uprooted in a night, while they lose men
almost daily by land mines and sniping.
Only the promises to the Jews and their plight
in the world to-day have persuaded Great Britain to
attempt what, in other circumstances, might be re-
garded by British public opinion as an unjust attempt
to make a people accept a state of affairs which they
believe inimical to their national interests. The Jews
cannot be left in the lurch, and in so far as the
National Home has been realised it must be protected ;
but unless Great Britain and the Jews, whose claim
to liberalism and justice is at stake, are prepared to
ride roughshod over the majority in Palestine, some
other way must be found for solving the problem
than by beating a people into submission,
*****
R. G. B. Spicer, late Inspector-General of Police,
Palestine, in a letter to London “Times” : —•
This country, in which we are fast losing—if we
have not already lost —any prestige that we ever had,
in which devoted public servants and other innocent
beings are daily being murdered, in which the sacking
of Government offices, police stations, railway stations,
post offices, courts and banks has become recently
almost a nightly occurrence, will not be peaceful or
an administrative possibility until one of the follow-
ing decisions is taken:
To employ ruthless force against the Arab revolu-
tionaries, to conquer these rebellious people by the force
of arms, to bring them to their knees (as indeed the
Turks would have done), and, once this has been done,
to deal with any recrudescence with inexorable severity,
thus allowing the Jews to pursue their peaceful settle-
ment and to build up that country into an economical
and flourishing State, or —•
To say to the Jews:
We are sorry that the Balfour Declaration as you
interpret it is an impossibility. We have given it a fair,
prolonged and bitter trial, but cannot go on. This feeling
of the Arabs is deep-seated, national and justified. Their
grievance is shared by the rest of the Moslem world.
It is not the present but the future that they fear, that
is, their eventual domination and extinction, with the
joss of their land in which they have lived and buried
their dead for some hundreds of years. You must
abandon any further expansion of your Zionist dreams.
What you have you may hold, but it must stop there,
both in regard to immigration and to land. The prob-
lem of persecuted Jewry must be dealt with outside
Palestine.
Partition is possible theoretically but impossible
practically, and, if forced through, will not only pro-
long the bitter and bloody struggle, but will create
an area of hatred which all surrounding Moslem
countries will resent, and which will inevitably bring
the destruction of our amicable relations with them.
*****
Jawaharlal Nehru, leader of the Indian Congress
party, writing in “Time and Tide” :
It is absolutely clear to me that Palestine is and
must remain a fundamentally Arab country. I am
convinced that no amount of terrorism or coercion will
cow down the Arabs into submission. The Arab
national movement will never be crushed by bayonets
and terrorism. Enforced partitions are equally doomed
to failure. To the Jews I would earnestly appeal to
realise that their lining up with British Imperialism
and against a national movement will have disastrous
results for their race.
*****
The official Jewish Agency in Palestine, in a state-
ment published by London “Daily Telegraph :
In view of rumored proposals for a solution of
the Palestine problem through the stoppage of Jewish
immigration and fundamental changes in the consti-
tutional structure of the country, the executive of the
Jewish Agency for Palestine states, unequivocally, that
the Jewish people reject any solution which would
condemn them to minority status in Palestine.
The Jews are in Palestine “as of right and not on
sufferance.” Their right to reconstitute -their national
home in their historic country has been solemnly
recognised and repeatedly confirmed by Great Britain,
the United States of America and the whole civilised
world.
The continuous terror of the past two and a half
years has failed to deter the Jews from their work
of reconstruction ; and yet, in spite of all this, the Jew-
ish people remain ready to co-operate with the Arabs
for the general welfare of the country. They can con-
sider neither the imposition of minority status nor any
arbitrary limitation of their inalienable right to return
to their homeland.
*****
Bishop Francis ( Jerusalem ), Archdeacon Stewart
(Palestine ), Rev. C. T. Bridgeman (American chap-
lain), and Mabel C. Warburtop, in a joint letter to
London “Times” :
The past history and present treatment of the
Jew in Europe are a reproach to the name of Christen-
dom. But the reproach is not wiped out, nor can
the problem be solved, by shifting the responsibility
of Christendom in the matter on to a predominantly
non-Christian people, the Arabs of Palestine.
The highest recorded immigration of Jews into
Palestine in any one year was 62,000 in 1935 (illegal
immigrants not included). Palestine has hardly known
a day’s peace since. The number, 62,000, is a little
more than the annual natural increase of Jews in
Poland alone. Palestine, by taking more immigrants
than she can absorb politically and culturally, can at
best stabilise the Jewish problem in one country of
Europe.
The Jewish problem of Europe, therefore, must
be solved by the Christian Powers at their own
expense, and not at the expense of Palestine.
The communal conflict is not primarily one of
race. Both are Semitic, and where both share a
common Oriental civilisation — e.g., in Bagdad—there
is little or no animosity. Nor is it primarily one of
religion. Moslem and Christian are to be found on the
one side ; orthodox rabbi and anti-religious Commu-
nist on the other. There are religious elements on
both sides making for moderation and peace. It is
primarily a conflict of two civilisations, both desiring
“progress” but with different conceptions of its mean-
ing and different rates of progression. The Jew, who
has faced persecution and exile rather undergo
“assimilation,” ought to appreciate the Arab’s refusal
to accept “economic benefits” as adequate compensa-
tion for the flooding of the land by an alien civilisation.
*****
London “Evening Standard’’ leader : —
There are two courses open to Britain.
We can declare that we intend to break our
original pledge to give the Arabs independent govern-
ment in Palestine, and to fulfil a later —and incom-
patible—pledge that Palestine should include a Jewish
National Home. .
We can announce that our interpretation of this
pledge is that, as the Royal Commission proposed,
the National Home must become an independent
sovereign Jewish State —its frontiers guaranteed by
British bayonets.
This means that we must ride roughshod over
the majority in Palestine, pour in troops and proceed
—in the name of Zionism and in defiance of every
principle of self-determination —to undertake a bloody
reconquest of the country, at the immense risk of
bringing on our heads a Pan-Islamic Holy War.
From such a policy justice and reason recoil.
The alternative —and it is the one hopeful course
—is to recognise that a peaceful solution of the
Palestine problem cannot be attained without Arab
co-operation.
It is only through a reconciliation that the Jews
can hope to preserve any of the substance of such a
National Home as their efforts have so far realised.
There is little doubt that an immediate concordat
could be reached, and endorsed by powerful Arab
authorities outside Palestine, if the British Govern-
ment were to announce that the unjust, impracticable
Partition Plan is dead, and that for a period of years
no further Jewish immigration would be permitted.
Thereafter an independent Palestine State, with
full guarantees of communal rights and local
autonomy, if need be, for predominantly Jewish areas,
might well be evolved through Anglo-Arab co-opera-
tion. £
The immediate task is to end a situation ot revolt
and bloodshed pregnant with danger to every British
interest in the Near East.
Towards Understanding Germany.
[The vicious idea is being cultivated that we must go
on hating Germany. The first aim is to sabotage the
Peace of Munich, one of the means being to keep build-
ing up a false picture of Germany and the German
people. Compare with the monotonously laminar
picture that put forward in this digest of two articles
by a London “Times” writer (Oct. 3 and 4), who empha-
sises how important it is for the permanent peace ol
Europe that the British and German peoples should learn
to understand each other’s minds more completely.]
If there exists any anti-British feeling in Ger-
many it is certainly not apparent. On the contrary,
one profoundly hopes that the ordinary foreign visitor
to England receives as much consideration and
authentic kindness as does an Englishman in Germany.
There are cherished convictions which a very
short stay will shatter. Three of the commonest are
that German officials are brusque and overbearing,
that the word verboten is inscribed wherever possible,
and that there is no litter in the country. It must
be as strange for a German to discover that these
crude beliefs still fill English minds as it is tor an
Englishman to find educated, untravelled Germans
apprehending that England still thinks in terms of
Boche and Hun. * .
Of course, first days in any foreign country bring
home all sorts of outward differences, but hardly even
for the tourist who comes and goes will the easily
perceived dissimilarities obscure the essential identity
and (as an Englishman might say) normality of life.
The shortage of labor and the rationing of
building materials and raw material for industry cut
deeper at the present time in Germany than anything
that affects the housewife. Food is not expensive, and
in most places everything except butter can be bought
without restriction.
Outward signs of Nazification intensify as one
nears Austria, where a process of Nationalist-Socialist
education (if that word may be used) which in Ger-
many was spread over years is being hastened through
within a few months. Crossing the now open frontier,
into a poorer land where everything looks to need a
fresh coat of paint, one cannot but be conscious of the
material advantages which union with Germany offers.
The “Times” is on sale almost everywhere in
Germany one or two days after publication. Hence
it is much simpler for anyone who knows English to
discover foreign opinion than it is to obtain a German
paper in England outside the large cities. The German
press gives a greater proportion of its space to events
abroad, so that, although nothing appears which is
adverse to National-Socialism unless it is patently
ridiculous, at normal times the German is better
informed about public affairs in England than the
Englishman, with his three or four definite ideas, could
claim to be in regard to Germany.
Whereas the German countryside lacks hedges,
the towns lack smoke-laden air and slums. There are
dismal spots with a long industrial history, but her
later development has spared Germany the drab areas
of England, Scotland and South Wales, just as some-
what similar causes operating in the last 20 yeais
have largely saved her from unplanned sprawling ot
towns and ugly speculative building.
In a largely arable country hedges are considered
a waste of precious land. We are apt to dismiss
German arguments based on land-hunger, forget-
ting that English agricultural politics are based on
the tenant-farmer system, German on the determined
existence of millions of peasants, cultivating their own
land by laborious methods and at the same time ren-
dering their country far less dependent on imported
foodstuffs than we are.
It is significant of the willingness in all nations
to read the worst into every foreign action that most
Englishmen regard the Autobahnen as primarily mili-
tary in intent. Their construction obviously served
three great Nazi purposes —to provide employment,
to improve transport facilities, and to afford spec-
tacular proof of National-Socialist achievement. No
doubt they enhance Germany’s potential strength, but
would a Government thinking only of war have felt
no concern about furnishing hostile aircraft with
unmistakable pointers to all the chief cities?
If an Englishman wishes to begin to understand
German instincts in international affairs there is this
lesson which he must let the roads of Germany teach
him. All of them, except northwards, lead eventually
to that curious barrier resembling a level crossing gate,
that national fact of which we English have no experi-
ence—a land frontier with foreign country beyond.
The average Englishman believes a_ war party
behind the German Government of that time to have
been responsible for the 1914 war. With equal
sincerity the ordinary German holds a different view.
He believes that Russia for Pan-Slav purposes took
opportunity to enlarge a Balkan quarrel, that when
Russia moved France knew the hour had come for
avenging 1870, that Britain culpably allowed Russia to
be too confident of British support in any circum-
stances, that Germany turned to fight for her life, and
that the German armies went through Belgium because
in no other way could they deploy against the brench
rapidly enough to safeguard Germany’s national
existence. These opinions will not change now on
either side. It is better to agree to differ ■
To a large part of the German people, chiefly ot
the middle classes, Herr Hitler is a Messiah and his
interpretation of the principles of National-Socialism
is the touchstone of morality. Does it matter whether
National-Socialism is at issue with Christianity. i ne.
are convinced that Adolf Hitler in his own person is
providing the German race with a new religion. \\ no
suggests that the churches are not free in Germany.
All they must do is not to interfere in politics. In tn
cottages of Catholics one may see a photograph ot the
Fiihrer on the wall, over against a picture of the Virgin
Mary. At Nuremberg swastika streamers float from
Into Battle —Over Cows!
The war we nearly had, as viewed by George
Malcolm Thomson in London “Evening
Standard”: —
We should have gone to war —if a last-
hour epidemic of reason had not broken out
among the statesmen of Europe—over the
minutice of evacuation and transfer.
In 1914, it was said, we went to war for
Serbian pigs. For one of the things which
had inflamed feeling between Austria and
Serbia was the closing of the A ustrian
frontier to the import of these lucrative
animals.
Years ago political strife raged in Canada
over the Widow Murphy’s cow. To-day men
might have been killing one another over the
Czechs’ cow. For the disposal of peasants
cattle in the transferred areas was one of the
points that divided the Great Powers!
Please, if ever we must fight, could it be
over some less paltry lunacy than that. The
Greeks fighting under Troy’s battlements for
Helen may have been romantic asses. But
what would history have said of the Europeans
had they marched to battle for the cows ?
For an adequate description of such be-
havior the most dignified chronicler would have
had to call to his aid the vocabulary of the
public-house. We have avoided the merited
contempt of posterity.


church towers. One wonders how deep, how wide-
spread, is recognition of the unappeasable conflict, and
cannot tell the answer.
Largely the German public seems to numb its
moral conscience with the feeling that the Jews are
receiving very much what they deserved. They knew
how to manipulate financial crises and grow rich from
them, one will hear it said, while we Germans saw
ourselves becoming poorer and poorer, and less
and less able to prevent Jews from acquiring posi-
tions of power which they would use to their own ends
with no thought of citizen duty. The right of a
foreigner to judge the Jewish question is denied, unless
he lived long in pre-Nazi Germany or Austria.
National-Socialism is not “Prussian militarism”
in a new dress. It is a fanatic reaction against the
idea, long cherished by France and acquiesced in by
Britain, that a great nation of 60 or 70 million people
can be kept indefinitely subservient by an imposed
treaty.
The Government has reduced unemployment
from 6,000,000 to nothing. That cannot wholly be
explained away in terms of military absorption. A
gigantic industrial revival lies at the back. The Nazis
have given the working man the so-called Labor Front,
in theory making him co-partner with his employer, in
practice securing him a number of safeguards and
amenities. But, above all, since they came to power
there has been a complete cessation of the week-end
brawling and street fighting and May Day rioting
which up till then were plaguing almost every town,
so that many a peaceful citizen feels that what the
present Government destroyed was not liberty but the
misuse of it.
Everyone in Germany looks to Britain. Talk
about decadence is waning. The public has drawn
conclusions from our defence estimates, and Mr.
Chamberlain has done the rest. So Jong as the
German people believe that Britain’s greatest interest
in Europe is to see justice done, Britain’s moral power
beneath the surface in Germany is immeasurable.
Goal of the Hate Gospellers.
IThe danger to peace emphasised by Lord Elton in
the letter here condensed from London “Times” is, of
course, not confined to Britain.]
There are countless lessons to be learned by all
the countries involved in this latest crisis. And one
is the danger of the existence in Britain of many
worthy and distinguished citizens who genuinely
desire to attack Germany because it is governed by
Nazis. Those who hold these views are not particu-
larly numerous, but they are vocal, influential and not
confined to any one party.
In the same way, for some while after the last
war there were powerful currents in British opinion
which desired to attack Russia because it was governed
by Bolshevists. Happily for the peace of the world,
though we may not care for Bolshevism, we have long
ceased to desire, for that reason, to fling ourselves
upon Russia. And one of the most urgent steps
towards a more stable Europe is that, in our dealings
with Germany, we should learn, as we have already
learned in our dealings with Russia, the surely
obvious truth that democracies and dictatorships must
needs tolerate each other’s domestic idiosyncrasies.
It is not the man in the street who needs to learn
this lesson. The man in the street has been ready to
face the awful prospect of a world war in the air
because his leaders told him that he must resist the
principle of aggression, not because he yearned to over-
throw the Nazi regime. But there are others, in-
credible though it must seem, who still genuinely
believe that democracy can be extended by war —and
by a war, incidentally, waged, in all probability, in
alliance with one or more dictatorships. Whereas in
fact the most appalling feature of the outlook we
have been forced to contemplate during the last few
weeks has been not so much even the horrors of air
warfare on the grand scale as the prospect of what
must inevitably follow such a war —a Europe handed
over to a series of military dictatorships, Bolshevist
or Fascist, according to the chances of the struggle,
ruling precariously amid anarchy, famine and pesti-
lence.
Policies of the World Nations.
[Here condensed is a chapter entitled “Simplicities of
the International Game” from Eugene J. Young’s
Looking Behind the Censorships (Lovat Dickson). The
author is cable editor of New York “Times,” and has
been studying and interpreting world foreign policies
from the American viewpoint since the beginning of the
century. He essays to put the policies of the great
nations into nutshell digests, and thus provide “a work-
ing knowledge of the elementals on which statesmen
have to base their efforts.”]
Britain ,
The basic motivations of Britain in any negotia-
tion :
1. Safety of the homeland and security of communications
with the Empire and the world.
2. Opposition to the emergence of any Power or combina-
tion of Powers on the Continent of Europe which might
become strong enough to endanger the nation’s position; and
the use of the Balance of Power to prevent such a develop-
ment.
3. Safeguards for the Empire by the creation of “buffer
States ” in front of any rival that might threaten it or bv
making combinations against such a rival.
4. Co-operation with America, the only rival free to chal-
lenge British supremacy, with the object of stabilising the
world situation and with the idea of creating, if possible,
a world police authority.
On the seas Britain is determined to control the
Atlantic. Formerly she was equally set on controlling
the Mediterranean, but the emergence of Italian
power and the development of submarines and aero-
planes have made such domination of its eastern
waters virtually impossible. So dominance of the
Atlantic is imperative.
Here enters co-operation with America. Preced-
ing and during the Washington Arms Conference of
1921-22 an arrangement was made whereby Britain
took over the defence of the Atlantic and America
the defence of the Pacific in pursuance of this com-
mon purpose. Under this arrangement control of the
Pacific is supposedly assured, America having taken
over patrol of that ocean, our main fleet being kept
in it as a restraint on the ambitious Japan.
France
The primary interests of France:
1. Security at home of a nation subject to land invasion
as well as to attack from the sea and air. Alliances against
possible enemies are considered necessary in achieving it.
2. As in Britain’s case, open communications through the
Mediterranean and with the world to safeguard the second-
largest Empire and to promote widespread economic and
financial interests.
3. Co-operation with America as against those who
challenge the democratic principle.
The chief problem of France lies in her suscepti-
bility of invasion from the land. Hence the form-
ing of combinations that will offset such perils.
Every French statesman recognises that his country’s
interests parallel those of Britairt in most important
aspects; but even though Britain has reached a virtual
alliance with France, the demands of the latter are
apt to go beyond anything London will countenance
and the policy of alliance is still beyond anything
America will support.
Germany
Germany’s basic policies:
1. Germany is virtually surrounded by possible enemies.
She has narrow outlets to the seas and has weak frontiers.
Her first purpose is to break this “Iron Ring.”
2. Under Hitler she proclaims the “Urge to the East,”
but that is only a crystallisation of the old Imperial aim which
led the Hohenzollern regime to reach into Poland, the Baltic
provinces, C entral Europe and the Balkans by what was then
called peaceful penetration.” Possession of the agricultural
lands of Poland and perhaps of the Ukraine would give Ger-
many needed food resources, many mineral deposits and neces-
sary supplies of petroleum, and would enable her to establish
a strong frontier in the east, distant from her vital home
regions.
3- In the west she seeks, as did the Kaisers, a “Window on
the Sea.” She is cramped now in the channels between
Denmark and the Netherlands and between Denmark and
Sweden. Before she was defeated in the World War she
demanded a slice of France looking out on the North Sea,
with Belgium thrown in.
4. Then there is a “Place in the Sun” towards which
modern Germany has constantly struggled. That policv lies
behind the frequently-spoken demand of the Third Reich for
“full equality.” It connotes a full German share in colonies
which can supply raw materials and furnish outlets for surplus
population.
5. Germany must have full opportunity to trade so she
can build up her economic and financial strength and no
longer be subject to “strangulation” by the more-favored
nations.
6. Until equality can be accomplished the nation must
make itself self-sufficient for war.
In the “Urge to the East” there is fear as well as
ambition. Russia, in the last century, rolled down
through Poland and put herself in position to roll over
Germany. In the World War her armies twice pointed
great drives towards Berlin.
Germany makes no secret of her intention to
become a great world Power, to compel the great
Haves to divide their possessions and advantages with
her. By one diplomatic means or another, by threats
and “sword-rattling,” she steadily pursues this
purpose.
Italy
How to safeguard itself from attack and how to
break out to the world are Italy’s primary considera-
tions, and these are the lines it has followed:
1. Keeping a sphere of influence in Central Europe as an
offset to Germany’s expansion and the threat of invasion
through the Brenner Pass and towards Trieste. Formerly
Austria and Hungary were supported as “buffers,” but Ger-
many’s annexation of Austria upset the policy Mussolini had
long pursued.
2. Domination of Albania on the eastern shore of the
Adriatic, both as an offset to Yugoslavia’s possession of better
harbors and as a jumping-off place for an invasion of that
country, if necessary. Corollaries of this policy are pressures
on Yugoslavia, political, religious and economic, to force her
to limit her war strength and her opposition to Italy’s designs;
and cultivation of Bulgaria, Greece and Rumania as possible
allies.
3. Breakdown of the British position in the Near East and
Northern Africa, already set under way by the conquest of
Ethiopia. This includes agitations among the Mohammedans
of Egypt and the Arabs of Palestine and Arabia. Domination
of the sea-lanes to these countries by naval, submarine and
air forces in the central Mediterranean.
4. Domination of Spain and her islands in the western
Mediterranean. Should this end be achieved the British posi-
tion at Gibraltar might be made untenable, and Italy might
open the outlet to the Atlantic.
5. Coupled with the Spanish policy, acquisition of a
position in Algeria and Morocco, whereby, at the least, these
countries could be neutralised so they could not be used as
bases for operations to cut Italy off from the Atlantic.
Alone, Italy is incapable of achieving these ends.
So she is compelled to seek alliances which may
ensure that Britain, or France, or Germany will be
kept busy elsewhere while she is achieving her objec-
tives. Yet always she is handicapped in such en-
deavors by the counter-ambitions of those with whom
she would make deals.
Russia
Russia’s problems rest on paradoxes:
/. The people have been educated to believe they are
engaged in a revolutionary movement in which they are lead-
ing the world; and the belief thus inculcated is made to serve
the ruling hierarchy, which pretends to promote the revolution.
This pose is necessary as well for its effect abroad, for it keeps
in line the Communist parties which, in various countries, are
constantly agitating to weaken foes of Russia or to promote
her interests.
2. Yet the Foreign Office feels the necessity of forming
ententes, or organising accords, or of having political and eco-
nomic dealings with nations that do not serve Communism,
such as Britain, France and America. To them is presented
the idea that the country is abandoning the world revolution
and is engaged only in evolving a great Socialist democracy
with which they can have cordial relations.
3. Full equality with Britain and France as a Mediterranean
Power.
4. Close relations with Spain, coupled with possible future
domination of her islands in the western Mediterranean,
as a means of offsetting Britisli-French power and of keeping
an outlet to the Atlantic. Coupled with this is a desire to
share in the control of Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia, held
by France, as a means of opening the way to the Atlantic
by seeing to it that these lands shall be neutral in time of war.
Europe, particularly Germany, has never taken
the peaceful professions of Moscow seriously. Berlin
looks at the other side of the paradox and wonders
when Russia will be ready to strike. And that view
is shared by most of the realistic observers in America.
Japan
Japan, with an overcrowding even worse than that
of Germany and Italy, with a country largely moun-
tainous and lacking in resources, and with a strategic
position at once strong and weak, has been determined
to find ways to give her people the necessities of life
and also to give herself security. In pursuit of such
objectives she has evolved these policies:
1. Control of Korea and Manchuria as buttresses against
both Russia and China, if possible she would extend these
“defences” by the elimination of Russia’s power in the East
through the capture or “neutralisation” of the Russian mari-
time provinces and of eastern Siberia.
2. Domination of northern China by setting up an “auton-
omous regime” in the provinces of Hopeh, Chahar, Suiyuan,
Shantung and Shansi, thus putting the boundary of China
proper along the Yellow River and the marshes near the coast.
The resources and trade of the severed region would be
exploited. This project is now well under way.
3. Intrigues to keep central and southern China apart so
that the remaining 250,000,000 or more of population should
not be able to unite against Japan.
4. Elimination of the influence of the Western Powers by
forcing recognition of the theory that Japan is the “stabilising
power” of the Orient —in other words, the policeman of the
Far East —with the right to decide all major policies affecting
that region. With this goes a campaign based on the slogan
“Asia for the Asiatics," which would extend Japanese influence
even farther.
5. The right of Japan to exploit the resources of the
Philippines, the Dutch East Indies and Siam in order to get
raw materials and needed fuel oils.
6. Freedom of immigration to all the desirable parts of the
earth, so the Japanese race may exploit resources necessary to
help the homeland. Freedom of trade, which would place the
country on an “equality” with more favored nations.
The dominant factor has been the necessity of
haste in gaining the desired ends. Russia must not
be permitted to recover sufficiently to feel free to
exert her power in the East. Europe must not have
time to compose its quarrels so it could again take
an effective interest in that area. China herself must
not be permitted to grow strong enough to become a
dangerous neighbor. Also there were the driving
necessities of the people, crowded into their islands,
growing at a rapid rate and lacking sufficient food,
among other things. These elements were the reasons
for the dangerous adventure in China.
U.S.A.
In effect, the U.S.A.’s primary policy has now been
reduced to this:
We shall try to keep out of all the world’s troubles, leaving
them to others, while we strive to go on enjoying all the great
benefits that have been bestowed on us by a beneficent Provi-
dence. To the perilous future must be left the evolvement of
any other policies.
Striped Roads.
C From an article in London “Observer.”)
An experiment is being made in Surrey with a
road built in colored strips, the two outside tracks
of red concrete, for the slower traffic, the inside two
of white, for the faster, while a centre track of red
is designed to be regarded as a danger zone, only to
be used in case of emergency.
The scheme will be interesting to watch. It is
several years since we adopted the guiding line on
bends and two or three since it was extended to the
straight in some places, but it is doubtful if it has
much effect now on the average driver. The experi-
enced man will accept its help, even when it is super-
fluous, because of his subconscious realisation that
what is so urgently needed among the inexperienced is
example ; and the beginner will accept it from zeal
or nervousness or some other powerful incentive. The
rest get used to it and ignore it.
The chief reason for its failure, if it has really
failed, probably lies, as with the matter of the multi-
tudinous roadsigns, in its overfamiliarity.
The red-and-white tracks may quite possibly suc-
ceed where the line has failed, the psychological
effect of color be more powerful than that of a thin
white streak. The main suggestion to the mind of the
driver should be that of several roads, one of which
is the right one for him, and not of one road divided
into easily overlooked sections. Where it is impossible
to build a dual carriage-way with a dividing bank
down the centre the red-and-white-striped road may
be as good a substitute for scientifically-built roads
as any other.
Maxton’s Peace Speech.
October (I cubic*, dealing with I lie House of
Commons debate on the Munich AKreement, reported
that “.Mr. .James Maxton (lud. l,uh.), who is regarded
as a firebrand in many quarters, was cheered from
all shies of the House when be suid that the I’rime
Minister, In a limited period, did something that the
mass of common people throughout the world
wanted done.”
Though lie spoke very briefly, Mr. Maxton said
much more than that, and the rest of ills speech lias
substance in it even more noteworthy tliun the
cabled fragment. As reported in London “Dally
Express”:—
Mr. Maxton said: “The war of 1914 lasted
four and a quarter years. It was fought as a war to
end war, and it did not do that. It did not make
this a land fit for heroes to live in.
“We saw it as a war fought for democracy, and
it did not have that effect.
“A war on the scale envisaged by this crisis would
have lasted twice as long as that of 1914, having
regard to the disparity between the weapons of then
and now. Is it foolish to assume that 50,000,000
people would lose their lives ?
“Is there anything in life for which it is worth
facing that? We were going to live underground like
rats. Human beings would have rushed into trenches
and tunnels like vermin to escape some foul death
from the skies.
“What sort of a new world is going to come out
of that? What sort of a democracy?
“Any effort made for peace is an effort which will
receive my support. I said so in the House last
Wednesday when the danger was great, and 1 repeat
it now when the danger is somewhat eased.
“The Prime Minister in that limited period of
time did something that the mass of the common
people of the world wanted done.
“The greatest thing of the Prime Minister’s visit
to Germany was the fact that it gave ordinary German
people the opportunity to demonstrate under con-
ditions which were not illegal their desire for peace.
“That desire for peace demonstrated by the German
people is the most hopeful sign in the world to-day,
a point on which everything should be built.”
And for having made that speech tlie Independent
Labor party lias carpeted Mr. Maxton!


SPORTING
SNOTIONS
Under the Whip
In the AJ.C. Derby and in the Caul-
field Guineas, Nuffield proved himself an
uncommonly good colt. Caulfield racing
suggested that, although he might not
find Kingdom and Tempest so easy at
Flemington as he found Aeolus, Respi-
rator and Limulet at Randwick, he
should win the Victoria Derby con-
vincingly enough to remain favorite for
the Melbourne Cup. For that race he
was handicapped at 7st. 71b., so victory
in the Derby would bring with it no
penalty. It would in Kingdom’s case ;
that colt’s present weight is 7st. 21b.
Tempest is not in the Cup.
Early last week it was reported that
Nuffield had hurt himself in his box, and
that his near foreleg was swollen above
the knee. On the Tuesday swimming
was substituted for galloping, but on
Thursday and Saturday the chestnut
galloped, and galloped well. There have
been conflicting reports about his con-
dition and his programme, and there will
be angry remarks from ante-post punters
if he comes out on Tuesday and does
what Hall Mark did in 1933. He also
was “under a cloud.”
Before the Nuffield experience the
market had decided that Royal Chief
would be his most dangerous opponent in
the Cup, and the Metrop. winner has
since figured as favorite. His weight is
9st. 31b., 51b. having been added by the
handicapper. As a four-year-old, Phar
Lap won the Cup with 9st. 121 b., but
Royal Chief is not in that horse’s class.
Neither is he the equal of Windbag, who
at four years won with 9st. 21b., though
he may be not noticeably inferior to other
four-year-old Cup winners with 9st. or
more —for example, Patron (9st. 31b.)
and Nightmarch (9st. 21b.).
This Page inclines to the belief —of
course events may prove it quite wrong
—that Royal Chief is a bit overrated.
His defeats of Avenger at weight-for-age
do not now look the outstanding achieve-
ments they appeared when Avenger was
judged on his three-year-old form ; and
if the Metrop. were run over again,
weights being the same, Buzalong and
Cooranga would certainly be backed to
beat the son of Chief Ruler and Modiste
11. However, he is hardy and game.
At Randwick Avenger gave the impres-
sion, which was strengthened at Caul-
field, that he had soured a bit on racing.
A leg went wrong in the Caulfield Cup
race, and Avenger has been scratched
for all engagements.
Before the owner put the pen through
Avenger’s name, Munro had asked for
permission to ride another horse in the
Cup, and he has been engaged for
L’Aiglon, who has Bst. 21b., though, with
Munro, it ma.y be Bst. 51b. L’Aiglon
demonstrated in the W. S. Cox Stakes
that he has had a real Cup preparation,
and as a son of The Buzzard must be
respected. The same applies with equal
force to Marauder (Bst.) and Gay Knight
(7st. 101 b.), both seasoned horses and
stayers.
Young Crusader (Bst. lib.) had his great
chance two years ago, when, a four-year-
old with a mere 7st. 91b., the jockey
rode him into the ground. If something
goes out and makes the pace and he can
hang on behind —as was the case in the
A.J.C. Waverley Handicap Young
Crusader may get a place, but a win
seems rather too much to expect.
Thf. Bulletin’s fancy is Bourbon (7st.
121 b.). He is a four-year-old by Tippler-
Spearfoot, and, though few of Tippler’s
progeny have been stayers, there is
Musket blood in him on the dam’s side.
Bourbon finished fast in the Metropoli-
tan and faster still in the A.J.C. Plate,
which race he won, with 9st., in excellent
time. Second to him was Allunga, per-
haps no great shakes as a stayer, but
fourth in The Trump’s Melbourne Cup
with 9st. lib., and considered by the
stable to have a chance this time with
9st.
Silenus (Bst.) is another son of Tippler
with proved stamina, imparted by his
dam, No Belle. The erratic Sir Regent
has the same weight, and no one would
deny Sir Regent a chance if it were cer-
tain that he would do his best.
Aitchengee is favorably handicapped
with 7st. 91b., and St. Constant still more
so with 7st. 81b. St. Constant has demon-
strated that he can go a mile and a half;
can he travel two miles and produce that
fast finish which has been so stirring a
feature of this racing season? It is
doubtful.
Other interesting candidates are the
Westralian pair Balkan Prince (Bst. 91b.)
and Footmark (Bst. 51b.), the Maorilanders
Catalogue (Bst. 41b.) and Queen of Song
(Bst. 31b.), Plectrum (7st. 71b.), Ortelle’s
Star (7st. 111 b.) and, above all, The
Trump (9st. 41b.). Last year’s winner
must have shown Eccles something or
that astute person wouldn’t have backed
him for the Caulfield Cup. However,
The Trump is only a little fellow, and
the weight will be troubling him before
he reaches the straight; in any ease, he
ran badly at Moonee Valley. Ortelle’s
Star is so honest, and the four-year-olds
are so good on the whole, that the first
win for a mare since 1921 must be
reckoned an interesting possibility.
As a Futurity Stakes winner with 9st.
41b. (and that as a three-year-old), and
an Epsom winner with 9st. 31b., giving
Mohican 221 b., Gold Rod must be
accounted well treated in the Cantala
Stakes with 9st. slb. He has never looked
better. After his A.J.C. St. Leger suc-
cess, he temporarily lost his speed, but
his good Metrop. effort does not seem
to have had that effect.
* * * *
The race for the W. S. Cox Plate at
Moonee Valley demonstrated that Royal
Chief is not in Ajax’s class up to a mile
and a quarter. All the same, the Maori-
land horse’s finish made such an impres-
sion on bookmakers that they materially
shortened his Melbourne Cup price.
From No. 2 berth Royal Chief jumped
out smartly, but horses on the outside
travelled so fast that he was crowded
at the turn out of the straight and
dropped back third-last in a field of 11.
Bartle took no risks, and it wasn’t until
four furlongs from home that he asked
the Maorilander to stretch out in deadly
earnest.
Royal Chief then was eight lengths
behind Ajax, whom Badger had allowed
to travel flat out. Already the 2-to-l-on
favorite was assured of victory, but
Royal Chief captivated onlookers by
going round two rivals on the turn and
swooping down to beat Young Idea by
a head for second money, two lengths
behind Ajax.
Covering 9i furlongs in lmin. 56fsec.,
•Ajax shaved a quarter of a second off
the course record, which Manfred estab-
lished in 1925 when he beat The Night
Patrol by an eyebrow. It was Ajax’s
eleventh successive win, and brought his
stake earnings to £22,375. He kept a
straight course, and, according to Mus-
grave, the trainer, always will do so if
given a free rein.
L’Aiglon (fourth) finished well, and so
did Bourbon (seventh).
Unlucky in several previous outings,
including the Caulfield Cup, Ortelle’s Star
thoroughly deserved her Moonee Valley
Cup win. She is trained by Cecil Godby
for “H. Hedges,” who cut short a world
tour to see the mare run in the spring.
Sired by Great Star at the St. Albans
stud, Ortelle’s Star has developed con-
siderably since Prairie Moon beat her in
the Oaks of 1937. On the dam’s side she
is related to Duke Foote.
Ortelle’s Star was favorite at fours.
Second, a neck away, was Aitchengee ;
Gay Knight—not suited by the slow pace
—was third, another length astern. This
pair was at 7 to 1 ; there was strong
Sydney backing for Gay Knight.
At the tail of the field with four fur-
longs to go Aitchengee made a run com-
parable-with that of Royal Chief in the
W. S. Cox Plate. His jockey, Elliot,
asserted that Aitchengee would have won
with a “clean” passage. The trainer,
Frank Manning, made wrathful remarks
to a jockey, but didn’t lodge a formal
complaint. Such matters ought to be
investigated.
The time was 2min. 45sec. —rather
poor these days for 13 furlongs. There
were only a dozen starters. A club which
put up £3OOO deserved a better return
than that.
Sydney candidates dominated wagering
on the juvenile events. The Chatham
filly Merry Smile (2 to 1 on) came to
light in the first division of the fillies’
race, and Esperanto (7 to 4 on) proved
unbeatable among the colts and geldings.
However, Anne (2 to 1) was too sore to
do herself justice in the second division of
the fillies, while Rival Chief (2 to 1 on)
had all the bad luck imaginable in the
second division of the colts and geldings,
running fifth only.
Valley backers were fairly well on the
mark, though Aspire (Gay Lothario-
Sweet Echo) started at 33 to 1 in the
youngsters’ race for which Rival Chief
was backed off the card. Win and place
divs. of Aspire were £9 17s. 6d. and £1
13s. respectively for ss. He cost 1200gns.
as a yearling and belongs to G. L. Scott,
who landed the Doncaster of 1928 with
Simeon’s Fort.
Early Bird, originally owned by Alan
Cooper but now in the stable of J. T.
Jamieson, was the medium of a stable
plunge in the Dundonald Handicap. Be-
ginning slowly he finished a moderate
third. Aurie’s Star won by half a head
from Manrico in the course record time
of lmin. ll|sec. for six furlongs.
In four tries this Page got Ajax,
Ortelle’s Star, Esperanto and Aurie’s
Star. A pound “all up” would have
brought the backer a shade over £76 10s.
However, that sort of thing happens so
seldom that it is not worth trying.
* * * *
Apologue (1907), Sasanof (1916),
Nightmarch (1929) and Wotan (1936)
have won the Melbourne Cup for Maori-
land. Carbine, though Maoriland-bred,
did nearly all his racing in Australia for
an Australian owner. Royal Chief has
never been tried at two miles, but he
won the St. Leger at Wellington (M.L.),
his time being 3min. lsec. In the Canter-
bury Cup, 12 furlongs, last season, old
Cuddle beat him, conceding 191 b., and
Courtcraft defeated him in the G.N.
Derby at Auckland. He may be a great
four-year-old, as many say, but he
couldn’t have been a champion three-
year-old.
* * * *
Adelaide Steam has taken its 3000-ton
motor-ship Moonta off the Spencer Gulf
run to serve as a floating caravanserai
during Cup Week. Tied up in the Yarra,
the Moonta will be available for pas-
sengers to sleep in. Round trip and
accommodation will cost South Austra-
lians a bare tenner.
* * * *
“T.”: The man whose Cup double for
a substantial sum was Buzalong and off-
spring of The Buzzard must be feeling
on good terms with himself. Running
for him at Flemington are Marauder
(Australian Cup), L’Aiglon (Sydney Cup)
and Gay Knight (A.J.C. Winter Plate).
Counting Old Rowley in, sons of The
Buzzard have won nearly all the long-
distance races at Flemington and Rand-
wick this year.
* * * *
From the pre-Cup issue of the . 1888
Bulletin :
The late John Fairfax, at the request of
Sir Hercules Robinson, discontinued the
practice of publishing in his papers the
state of the betting market. Quite recently
the present proprietors had a notice posted
outside their office that the result of the
drawing of TattersalFs £50,000 sweep would
be published in the second edition of the
“Echo.” , ,
Now, 100 years after John Fairfax s
arrival in Australia, his old paper will
publish a form-at-a-glance Cup supple-
ment. Thus time mushes on.
**. * *
Reviewing the chances of Melbourne
Cup candidates 50 years ago The Bulle-
tin’s scribe wrote that “no horses look
better —on paper or at exercise—than
Mentor and Tradition. The safest pro-
phecies are, firstly, that the field will be
smaller than usual; secondly, that a four-
year-old will win. Anyone taking a fancy
bet of 2 to 1 about the latter chance
would have the best of the deal.” In 1888
also Edmund Fisher wrote a Cup tip in
the form of a parody on Poe’s “Raven.”
Two verses:
“Prophet,” said I, “won’t Tradition fill a
prominent position?
Was he in the best condition when he ran
so well before?
Is The Peer a mere outsider? Can you
find a jockey ‘wider’
Than the bold Carlyon’s rider? Ain't
Malua worth going for,
He whose name will live forever in our
glorious racing lore?”
Quoth the Loafer: “Back Mentor.”
“Be that word our sign of parting, drunken
beast!” 1 shrieked, upstarting —
‘/Get thee back to Little Bourke-street,
where are lcpermen galore!
Go, pursue thy evil courses! I am sick of
backing horses —
Chief among a dozen sources of the troubles
I deplore:
Take thy tip from out my soul, and take
thy carcass from my door!”
Groaned the Loafer: “Back Mentor.”
Mentor, a four-year-old, won and
Tradition was second. Two to one the
four-year-olds would be a nice wager
this time, considering that Royal Chief,
L’Aiglon, Silenus, Bourbon, Ortelle’s
Star, St. Constant and Bachelor King are
among them. The difficulty would be to
get it.
* * * *
A good performer during the winter,
Cid lost his form in the early part of
the spring. He regained it at Warwick
Farm, his favorite course, and had to
overcome difficulties in winning the
Homebush Handicap. His rider, Scahill,
gets few chances on racecourses nowa-
days, but he is always in demand for
track work.
With Billy Boy making the pace, Cid
was allowed to lob along. Turning for
home he was last, and then he lost
lengths by running wide. But Scahill was
not disconcerted, and Cid gained so
rapidly in the straight that he caught
Billy Boy and beat him by a long head.
Own Folk was third, a length back, and
Head Check was fourth. Cid started at
eights—there was, a good crowd, and the
betting was brisk.
Unlucky at Randwick, Delmestor
showed most impressive speed in the
Varroville Handicap. Favorite at threes,
the mare ran past Brazandt at the top of
the straight and won by lengths from
Moonray and Hammerhead, galloping
the “six” in “twelve.” Brazandt stopped
and finished last. He had been slow to
leave the barrier, and he pulled himselt
to the front in the first furlong. Aureus
was badly interfered with. Shackleton,
always prominent, finished fourth.
It was a day out for mares. In the
Macquarie Grove Handicap Knox rode
Morning Gift (-12 to 1) a nice race in
front, and his mount was never in danger
of defeat over the last three furlongs.
Let Slip and King Gee made good efforts
to catch her, but tired, and the winner
actually finished better than both. Among
the unplaced lot were old Dermid, backed
at long prices, and Publicity, who ran as
if he needs a spell.
Belle Rose, a small Beau Fils filly,
owned by Mandel, the bookmaker,
made no mistake in the Greystanes
Juvenile. She started at 10 to 1. Mirage
had lengths to spare opposite the Leger,
but Belle Rose, coming from a fair way
back, beat her handily.
Constant (6 to 1) had not to be ridden
out in the Farm Stakes. She comfort-
ably accounted for Astounding and for
Moaenza and Volpato, who ran a dead-
heat for third. Constant is by Constant
Son out of Ila Tait, who raced at the
ponies. Though on the small side, Con-
stant should make a useful stayer under
light weights.
The Moorcfisld-trained Ladeer (12 to 1)
got up in the last stride to beat Mavro
and the pacemaker, The Arrow, in the
first division of the Maiden Stakes. The
second division went to A.J.C. com-
mitteeman Hunter White’s Numeral, a
big son of Tippler-Figure, and thus a
brother to Hadrian. Numeral started
at sixes, after easing from threes, and
beat his stablemate, Hermes, and Protona.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Derby: Nuffield, 1 ; Kingdom,
2 ; Tempest, 3.
Cup: Bourbon, 1 ; Ortelle’s Star,
2 ; Marauder, 3. Best outsider :
Gay Knight.
Wakeful Stakes: Talkalot; next,
Lady Montague.
L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes:
Ajax ; next, Royal Chief.
Cantala Stakes: Gold Rod ; next,
Ena.
Maribyrnong Plate: Merry
Smile ; next, Rival Chief.
Hotham Handicap: Silenus;
next, Gay Knight.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Carlton Mile: Aladdin; next,
Morning Gift.
Moorefield Handicap: Cid ; next,
Salazar.
Flying Welter: Bodley Head;
next, Moaenza.


\jeuiqethe TRUTH
Either your tyre gauge is accurate or it is
useless. Have complete confiderfce in
your tyre pressures by using a gauge
which is guaranteed accurate—the
Kismet. Correctly inflated and
perfectly balanced tyres pre-
vent skids and tyre wear.
Guaranteed
Accurate —
V*
sy.
\«r
w*
Price,
9/6
z'' Handsomely finished in
stainless metals; cali-
brated 0-501 b. in single
units clearly marked on
fiat surfaces. In neat
leather wallet.
iik ■ s mu iE't
TYRE GAUGE
William Turner & Bros., Ltd., Eyre Works, Sheffield, Eng.
Factory Hep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb., Vic.
Price,
9/6
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES
throughout New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
s y* /<?
£ -
«
*«r<£
a ;, / ;,: '
/A
¥
UTI
S
W
:
jfie
!'■' ; . XJ
H : p«iair
: ™ B3^3§B§g^;
o Jsk^..
FORD V-8 STANDARD
UTILITY £304
Prices F. 0.8. Ford Plant,
Plus Sales Tax.
ALL-STEEL BODY. LOADING COMPARTMENT OF UNIT STEEL
CONSTRUCTION WITH WOOD FLOOR INSERTS. FULLY ENCLOSED
DRIVING COMPARTMENT WITH SAFETY GLASS ALL ROUND. OIL
BATH AIR CLEANER. FOUR HYDRAULIC SHOCK ABSORBERS.
LOWER COST PER MILE. To low first cost
is added low operating cost with the eco-
nomical V-8 engine, setting performance
and economy records in all classes of busi-
ness. The quality and long life built into
every Ford part cuts maintenance costs to
the bone and keeps resale value high.
HIGH QUALITY FEATURES AT LOW
COST including:
V-8 engine with
aluminium cylin-
der heads; dual
carburettion; cast
steel crankshaft;
bearings proved
FORD Utilities
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
in heavy duty truck service; torque tube
drive and radius rods; three-quarter float-
ing rear axle with straddle - mounted
pinion; easy-action, super-safety brakes
with 186 sq. in. braking area.
TRY A FORD Y-8 UTILITY ON YOUR
OWN JOB with your own loads and
driver. Test its economy and performance
under your par-
ticular operating
conditions. See
your local Ford
Dealer now. Easy
and convenient
purchase terms.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F 14.241
Under the Whip
Cups galore are raced for at spring-
time in Victoria: Caulfield Cup, Moonee
Valley Cup, Melbourne Cup, Williams-
town Cup, Werribee Cup, Geelong Cup,
Bendigo Cup and Ballarat Cup.
Run last Wednesday and worth £325,
including a £4O case of cutlery, the Werri-
bee Cup attracted 11 runners. It resulted
in Keeping Watch (fives) beating Maluno
by three-quarters of a length, with Elm-
dale a length farther off. Maluno started
favorite at 5 to 2. He seemed rather
unlucky to lose. Ashley Reed kept him
on the rails while Virtnul and Silver Bond
made the running. They didn’t open up
• at the home turn, and Reed was compelled
to shift ground. Hartney, an apprentice,
got there before him and obtained a
winning lead for Keeping Watch.
Keeping Watch (The Night Patrol-
Eumaralla) is owned by Eddie O’Brien,
the bookmaker, who won on Caulfield
Cup day with Alan-a-Dale, bought at the
dispersal sale of A. E. Cooper’s racing
string. Speed as well as stamina is pos-
sessed by Keeping Watch. In May he
landed the V.R.C. Royal Handicap,
setting lmin. ll_|sec. for six furlongs, and
beating Spinifex, who subsequently com-
peted in the Doom ben (Q.) Newmarket.
Much South Australian money went
west when The Riff (6 to 4) failed by a
neck to overhaul Crowsaint (sixes) in
the Welter Handicap. G. W. Badman,
part owner of The Riff, took a lot of
money out of the Melbourne Ring when
Aurie s Star won the Oakleigh Plate and
Newmarket Handicap in 1937. Though
the Werribee plunge misfired, it is toler-
ably certain that The Riff will make
amends before returning to Adelaide.
Half a mile from home The Riff was
out of the picture. Elliot had taken
Crowsaint to the front and was holding
off his nearest opponents as they swung
into the straight. Putting in a great run,
The Riff nearly pulled the race out of
the fire.
Confidence in The Riff may have been
inspired by Insimbi, who also hails from
Adelaide, winning the Trial Hurdle,
i which came first on the programme.
Lone Boy (9 to 4, favorite) led at the
final obstacle, but Insimbi outsped him
on the flat.
Stan Reid, trainer of The Trump,
credited John I. Winter-Irving, of the
V.R.C. committee, with the Trial Handi-
cap through the agency of Mahogany, a
2-to-l. favorite, who easily defeated Sol
Green’s Virginia Waters and may shine
in better company. Mahogany is by
Manfred from Scarlet, with whom Bill
Booth won the Sydney Cup for Winter-
Irving in 1924. Up to date Scarlet
hasn’t produced anything approaching her
own standard as a galloper.
Backed down to 5 to 2 for the Three-
year-old Handicap, Raeburn had every
chance in running, but met more than
his match in Birdplay (fours), trained by
Harry Freedman and ridden by Dew-
hurst, who often succeeds with Freed-
man’s horses. Ambitious plans were
formed for Raeburn when he left New
Zealand, but he is far from being an
Elanage.
Another M.L. disappointment was Sir
Ken, owned by G. J. Barton, in the
Encourage Handicap. Prominent for a
few furlongs, he dropped out along the
back stretch. Quicksilver (fours) scored
by a head from Vario, with Green Cape,
winner of the last Grand National
Steeple, half a head farther off.
r * * *
“Ike Mcßagg”: Queensland anti-betting
taws are certainly “driving s.p. betting
underground,” as the evening press likes
to put it. A gentleman has just been
handed six moons “without” for con-
ducting his business in a concrete room,
deep underground, and entered only by
iron doors. The furniture consisted of
three telephones, two radio sets and
sundry humans.
* * * *
“Marija”: Think of it —£314 Bs. for
five bob! Backers of the tote treble at
Helena Vale, Perth, Swanbee, Earl
Caledon and Blue Lake, collected the
£314 Bs. on Saturday. Books had them
at 10 to 1, 9 to 2 and 5 to 1 respectively ;
on the straighout machine they paid £3
10s., £1 14s. and £2.
* * * *
“Kolhapur”: Billy Cook, one of Aus-
tralia’s finest jockeys, is off to India after
the Cup to ride for the stable which
Australian Alec Higgins has made the
most formidable in Hind. Cook gets a
retainer of £lOOO, 100 rupees (£9 10s.)
for a winner, and 50 rupees for a
losing mount, with 10 per cent, of all
place-money. The interesting youth, who
has ridden successfully in India before,
will open at Calcutta, returning to Aus-
tralia in time for the autumn meetings.
* * * *
“T.C.”: Changes are to be made in
the organisation of the Epsom Derby—
-158 years after its inception. Next year
the owner of the winner will get a £2OO
pot—as well as from £9OOO to £lO,OOO
in stakes—the trainer a cup worth
£5O, and the jock, a £25 mug.
In 1940, the fourth gee’s owner
will draw 2\ per cent, of the collection,
the breeder of the winner will pouch
£5OO, and breeders of the second and
third £250 and £lOO. After all, it
amounts only to getting a piece of their
own money back. Save on some of the
proprietary courses, all the cash is found
in one way or another by owners and
breeders in the way of subs., forfeits and
acceptances all murderously high,
according to Australian notions.
Ins and Oufs
“Five Ways”: Though he left big
cricket after getting the trip to England,
years after he should have been chosen,
Hornibrook still carries on in Bris-
bane grade cricket. His club tally is 789
wickets at 11; 'recently he took 6 for
39. Many would like to see him selected
for The Rest against the Australian
Eleven.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: N.S.W. selectors have
picked 11 colts to tackle their Banana-
land opposite numbers in Sydney on
November 2, 3 and 4. Gulliver is
skipper; his lads are Minter, Carmody,
McCaffery, Bombelli, Cohen, Fielder,
James, Pepper, Roper, Saggers (’keeper)
and Stapleton. Stapleton is a batsman
who made a strong impression with a
country team last year. It is a solid
batting side with plenty of all-rounders
and at least six regular bowlers.
* * * *
Forty-two country teams claimed the
honor of playing in the Sydney tourney
which begins on November 29. There
were not nearly enough wickets and the
lot was pruned down to 28. Those left
in range from Wagga to the Clarence, so
there will be a fair representation.
.* * * *
“Witherin’ Tyke”: Pudsey, where
young cricketer Hutton was born, has


FORDSON IS A SAFE INVESTMENT
IN GOOD SEASONS OR BAD!
Even when market prices for primary
products are low, Fordson is the easiest
tractor to buy. It is low in first c<*t
and the terms payments provided
under the Fordson finance plan are
spread over two years and, even
should markets prove unstable, will
present no difficulties.
Remember that Fordson is an "all-
round" worker all the year round!
Ploughing, harvesting, cultivating are
finished faster and more economically.
But in addition Fordson will operate as
a stationary power plant for all types
of belt work.
Fordson uses power kerosene and the
cash saving of Fordson's lower price
compared with prices of tractors using
low-grade fuel, will buy sufficient
power-kerosene to operate Fordson for
approximately 4,000 hours.
In your own interests it will pay you
to investigate Fordson. Get in touch
with your local Fordson Dealer. He
can arrange to demonstrate Fordson
on your own property —under your
own working conditions.
<
THE ENGLISH TRACTOB
n rr/r,
1
*
4
Z&
<u
H U -
FORDSON FEATURES
HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION • GOVERNOR CONTROL • OPTIONAL
SPEEDS • STATICALLY AND DYNAMICALLY BALANCED CRANKSHAFT
• EXHAUST VALVE INSERTS • BOSCH MAGNETO IMPULSE STARTER
• REAR END POWER TAKE-OFF (optional at extra cost)
DISTRIBUTORS
South Australia:
POWER PLANT LTD., 98-100 Currie
Street, Adelaide
Western Australia;
LYNAS MOTORS LTD., Hay Street,
Perth
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS PTY. LTD.
Corner Bridge and Young Sts., Sydney
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND) LTD.
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Victoria, Riverina and Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE LIMITED,
City Showrooms:
601-603 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. ( INCORPORAXED_JN_^I£X2^I^I—iFI^yT
FORD
done itself proud in celebration of his
Test-match performance. Not only were
all the pubs thrown open the day he
completed his huge score, but a “ban-
quet” was tendered the lad at the end
of the season with drinks ranging from
ale to what they consider as champagne
up that way—stuff almost as good as
cider, in the opinion of local connois-
seurs. At the feast our old friend Sut-
cliffe made some rather cryptic remarks.
He said that, while Australians prepare
wickets to suit themselves, in England
wickets are prepared to suit the Aus-
tralians. 1 fancy Sutcliffe must have
been well into his fifth or sixth pot by
then, for nowhere has he found wickets
which suited his methodical style better
than in Australia.
* * * *
“Hambledon”: The Englishwomen’s
Cricket Annual, just to hand, is cal-
culated to interest Dr. Robertson, of
Melbourne, to the last page. One
item is an address by a former
Duke of Dorset to the women cricketers
of his day (1770). He adjured them
to stick to the “pursuit that does
not debase the mind—and thus convince
your neighbors the French that you
despise their washes, their paints and
their powders.” We have changed, no
doubt. But in the last women’s match
writer saw in Sydney the wicketkeeperess
seized the chance afforded by a departing
bats-female to do just a teeny bit of fast
work on nose and lips from a dandy
little compact. That was near the Uni.
Oval, too.
Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: Williams will team up
with professionals Cremin and Von Nida
to tour the Philippines, where the three
will play in the Open championship in
December. Williams will also enter for
the amateur title, and if he can regain
anything like his form of two years ago
he should bring it back. Cremin and
Von Nida, the latter holder of the Open,
will presumably have a shy at the pro-
fessional championship as well.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Locke departed for
M.L. to play in the Dominion champion-
ships, leaving behind the impression that
he has had a flattering press here and in
Europe. In match play Von Nida proved
his superior. A pity the South African
could not have met Williams, but that
may happen when he comes back at the
end of November. Von Nida, who has
already taken £5O from the Afrikander,
would like another shy at him, this time
for a century.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Ferrier is Sydney’s “cham-
pion of champions.” He took the
title from the other metropolitan club
leaders at Manly with 140 (71 and 69;
par is 72) for the two rounds, three
strokes better than Davies (Ryde-Parra-
matta) and Tanner (Lakes). It kept the
young man’s average for his last 22 cham-
pionship rounds —they’ve been played
from Adelaide to Brisbane —at 70.2, and
in that time he’s missed only the one
title.
* * * *
“Shirley”: The Maoriland women’s
golf championship went to Miss S.
Collins, of Wellington: two up at the
end of 36 holes over Miss Jean Horwell,
who was here with the last Tasman Cup
team. The winner was keen enough, too,
for she drove 400 miles by motor-truck to
New Plymouth to enter her challenge.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: A new golf fad from
America should shortly reach Australia.
The competitors start over 72 holes of
stroke with a full set of clubs, play the
second round with five, the third with
three and the fourth with a single. In-
“Poor chap's a bit shortsighted."
terest might be added by a fifth round,
using only the bag or the caddie, if the
latter is not too heavy. Telling the story
of that round in the nineteenth should
be really interesting.
* * * *
“Flight”: Still another arrow-golfball
competition. Cotton has taken on Major
Haytor, one of Britain’s leading archers.
The Major will carry three bows and a
dozen arrows, and is to hole out in a
sponge the size of the tin. The picking-
up penalty is to be enforced if he gets
into a bunker or the rough, and Cotton
pays the customary golf penalties. There
is £lOO on the match, and it wouldn’t do
Henry any harm if he keeps well out of
range while the infuriated Major is trying
to fight his way out of a bunker.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Some of our
tennis experts are already showing that
the next Davis Cup is a gift for the Aus-
tralians. They argue thus. Budge be-
comes a professional, so fades from the
scene. Mako is turning professional
jazz musician, and all-night play will cut
him out. The only likely man the Yanks
can find is Riggs, and our experts see no
champion in him. Yet who knows how
many dark horses there are? On this last
disastrous tour one came from nowhere
any time he was wanted and rubbed out
our best fancies.
* * * *
“Wood Block”: Borotra has bobbed
up as winner—for the ninth time—of
the British covered-courts championship.
His opponent in the final was a frequent
adversary, Butler. Borotra won 3 sets to
1. The most interesting part of the show
was to find that, after all these years, the
Basque is only 40!
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: First, Budge
would sign a contract as soon as the first
Australian had departed. Then he
wouldn’t sign; then he refused 75,000
dollars, saying nothing less than 100,000
iron men was any use to him —“I thought
I’d prefer the latter sum.” Just as
I was going out for a quick one —a glass
of milk where I abide —came another tale
that he had really signed up, but for a
measly 50,000 simoleons.
Vines and Perry, who find they are
getting a bit flat, are imploring Budge to
join up and give the pro. game a fresh
impetus. Budge’s naive remark leads one
to wonder whether he has any idea of
the value of money. When Maori Nepia
was astonishing the world in Britain
with the 1924-25 All-Blacks, a Rugby
League potentate got the great full-back
on one side and asked him what bonus
he wanted for leaving the Union game
for the professional. Nepia considered a
moment, and then said: “Oh, I t’ink
£20,000.” The astonished North Briton
took this as a joke, but further inquiries
showed that the pride of M.L. meant
every cent of it.
Miscellaneous.
“Spike”: The N.S.W. Olympic heads
announce they have enough cash in hand
already to send 10 Australian athletes to
Finland in 1940. Judging by the team
dispatched last time, and its perform-
ances, 10 should be enough.
* * * *
“Heel and Toe”: Long-distance walk-
ing is not often heard of in Australia,
but Gordon Smith, of Summer Hill
(N.S.W.), has completed 113 miles 13094
yards in 24 hours. Officials say this is a
record for Australia. The books tell us


Ijou can depend on
CHAMPIONS
hr SAFETY
f.tfS
SCI
ft
b!&
>w
dsf
Many accidents are avoided by
cars that can dart out of danger-
ous situations. Keep your car
alert. Install new Champions at
regular intervals and enjoy the
safety and pleasure of quick ac-
celeration, abundant power and
speed. Champions pay for them-
selves in the fuel they save.
Empire product—mode in Windjor ( Can.
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
L_
i
■4
□am] I
□□□□
□
w
V
l/lfim
f,<
\ \ \
X
Spacious decks for
sports and games in the bracing ocean
air and sunshine * * * tournaments * * * race
meetings * * * lazy hours in comfortable deck
chairs * * * rest or recreation in a perfect
setting * * * are highlights of P & O Travel.
dsf
the world’s record is 131 miles 580 yards ;
it was made by an Englishman, Ham-
mond, in 1908.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The English Amateur
Athletic Association is “determined” to
clarify the position regarding amateur
status. It should be easy to define the
rule —enforcing it would be the trouble.
The most genuinely amateur crowd I
ever had anything to do with was the
Queensland Rugby Union. Players in
club teams found every dashed thing for
themselves, including hotel expenses and
fares to places like Toowoomba. For long
trips like a N.S.W. or M.L. tour the
Union paid fares and accommodation,
and presented one inter-State jersey with
stockings.
* * * *
“Galle”: The Australian Rugby team
now in Ceylon—mostly Westralians, with
a sprinkling from South Australia, Vic-
toria and Queensland —got away quietly.
Now comes the news that it has won a
couple of matches. Local form is not
well known this side ; but there is a big
contingent of English public schoolboys
and university men scattered about the
tea estates from which a pretty decent
side could be drawn.
* * $ *
“Hooker”: “Boy” Louw is retiring.
A great forward, who wore the green
jersey against Britain, Maoriland and
Australia, he invented and exploited the
block and bullock type of front-line play,
with tremendous forwards keeping the
ball in possession and only demanding
of the backs that they make ground with
a kick to the touchline. A great player,
all right, but he did a lot to put the
Rugby game back in the days of Tom
Brown’s Schooldays.
* * * *
“Maitland”: The British Rugby team
which has just completed its South
African tour has worked under a heavy
handicap. This is the centenary of the
Great Trek, and part of the show will
be a wagon trek on the old lines from
East London to Pretoria. Everybody in-
tending to go on the trek or to show
sympathy is growing all the beard he can,
and it is astonishing what crops have
been raised already. Half a dozen of
the Afrikanders in the average team
against the Rooineks sported magnificent
face fur, and the Britons had the greatest
difficulty in breaking up the scrums or
clearing from the rucks.
* * * *
“Poacher”: The pinchers are at it
again. Bradford unavailingly offered
Suillvan, the All-Black star, £lOOO down
to join its professional show, with a bonus
of £lO a match. Sullivan figured against
Australia in Sydney and against the ’Boks
in M.L., and played splendid football, the
'Boks in particular rating him the best
of the All-Black, backs they saw. He
is sure to be chosen to go to South
Africa with the Union side next year.
* * if* *
“Gate”: The N.S.W.R.L. smells a
nigger in the woodpile. It has to face
next season with no attraction save
club games. In desperation some dele-
gates suggested bringing a team from
France; but Harry Sunderland saw a lot
of French football when he was running
the Kangaroos in Gaul and says the
standard is below ordinary Sydney club
form. If they do bring the Frenchmen
along there is a strong feeling that their
passages home must be paid out of
League reserves.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Delegates from the vari-
ous States will attend the annual meet-
ing of the National Football Council in
Melbourne on October 31. The big nut
to be cracked is whether the rules are
to be altered to permit of the two-handed
pass, which the V.F.A. found to be
a success last season. The Victorian
delegate has been instructed to vote
against it, and West and South Australia
have also turned down the thumb.
Queensland, N.S.W. and Tasmania are
as yet dark horses, though some of them
supported a similar change a couple of
years ago.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The V.F.L. football final
was only an anticlimax to the feud now
raging between two St. Kilda factions.
The first is headed by W. H. Mc-
Kechnie, president for some years, the
other by one-time football champion
Dave McNamara, candidate for presi-
dent. Recriminations are free and fierce,
and, as in the liquor fight, “cartoons” and
literature” are like leaves in Vallom-
brosa.
* * * *
“Centre Half”: Every year the Sydney
Soccer season encroaches further and
further into cricket. The cricket season
had been over a month on its way when
the Soccer people found themselves with
a cup final on their hands and nowhere
to play it. As an easy way out it can-
celled the fixture, but Wallsend is
demanding a forfeit. The trouble is that
there are too many clubs. The English
system of divisions, with promotions and
demotions according to points scored at
the end of each season, should be adopted
if the game is to continue to flourish.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Melbourne Agricultural
Show authorities considered, and then
dismissed, the idea of shifting the date
of the annual orgy of beef and brawn
from September to October, reason given
for the suggested change being that night
“sessions” are now of most importance
and October weather is finer. Victoria
invariably has a fortnight to three weeks
of halcyon weather in October. It turns
up as regularly as clockwork. This year
it wasn’t wanted because of drought
conditions, but since it is always there
it ought to be taken advantage of. For
some reason or other, the Melbourne Cup
just misses it, being in November, when
the weather breaks again, the Antarctic
moves back into Melbourne and the rain,
as often as not, comes down in chilly
torrents, drenching the ladies’ coiffures
and ruining the favorite’s chance. Yachts-
men have observed this peculiarity of
Melbourne’s climate, even if the
authorities haven’t.
* # * *
“Shrewsbury”: Cabled that a gentle-
man who stroked the Oxford crew in
1937-38 is now at Cambridge to take
another degree and qualify for one more
blue. There is no record of anyone else
having tried it, and not so long ago the
captain of the boats at Oxford would
have politely ignored the gentleman's
qualifications for a dark-blue blazer. In
cricket it is different. I fancy there have
been a couple who played with both Uni-
versities.


A C&>-&ZLt~ .JS fvCruJ- o~cij-'W
Twice. Daily -2'30-Q
TIV'OILI
SYDNEY
Twice Dai/y 230-Q
SWING
IT,”
Frank Neil presents
with
LARRY
ADLER
and New Ovetsea. All Star Acts.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: Cent. 928-929.
WILL MAHONEY,
JJsS£»
ami New Stars in
“WHY BE SERIOUS?”
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: M 6835.
FREE SAMPLE
SENT OF RE-NU
LIQUID NU-METAL
Just deposit thru plug holes: reconditions any engine while-U-drive. Saves
rebore ends piston slap. oil. petrol waste: restores compression, new power, top-
speed ’ zip, etc. Guaranteed good for 10,000 miles. Harmless finest engine.
TRIAL TUBE, 6/6; or we send C.O.D. Advice. Literature, free. RE—NU, LTD.,
opp. Richmond Station, Melbourne. Agents required; 20 other lines. Free samples.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Algiers.”
Charles Boyer.
“Snow White’s” notable long run over
at last, Sydney Plaza regales its clientele
with this.
It has all the set-up of a really good
picture. The scene is unusual; Boyer
has proved himself a capable actor, and
others in the cast look as if they might
be good also ; photography has been con-
sistently directed towards sustaining an
atmospheric effect, and the central idea
is out of the ordinary.
Put into practical working, all these
promising things go to pieces.
The scene —the criminal-slum quarter
of Algiers—is all right for a while. In-
terest attaches to depiction of it as a
vast maze, an outlaw’s knowledge of
which makes evasion of the police easy.
Not only in the twisted alleys, but inside
the buildings as well, he can move from
room to room and house to house.
By repeated statement, this curious
scene very shortly becomes monotonous
as a stony desert. In general, it has the
merit of being true to actuality of such
African towns along the Mediterranean,
but that doesn’t make it interesting. It
is a barren scene. The filmsmiths try to
offset its bareness by a “romantic” in-
terior or two in the Near Eastern
manner, but monotony wins.
Photography is good, but it fails of
its purpose through being concerned
almost all the way with depictions in
which shadows predominate. Almost the
whole picture is in half-light and
shadows, which imposes a definite strain
when kept up for so long, and also has
the effect —possibly beneficial—of mak-
ing half the actors nothing but dim
shapes.
That last does not apply to Boyer, who
is kept in a spotlight throughout. There
he makes a show of being interested in
his part, and the strain that would im-
pose on any good actor might be respon-
sible for his poor performance.
He is supposed to be a vicious crimi-
nal, wanted in half a dozen European
capitals, and now hiding in this criminal-
slum quarter of Algiers. He looks about
as vicious and criminal as the chaps who
parade in handsome uniforms outside
picture houses. He has played Napoleon
very well, helped in the part to some
extent by a personal resemblance.
Through the same asset he would make
a great job of a younger and somewhat
romanticised Mussolini. But, being
handsome in the Latin style, romantic
lead in any good sentimental story would
be the thing to suit him properly. As
a' criminal, he’s a washout; as a leader
of criminals he’s utterly unconvincing.
The part calls for a Bogart, not a Boyer.
The good central idea of a criminal
who has found himself a safe hiding
place, which is, however, as secure a prison
as any gaol, is allowed to deteriorate into
an incredible sentimental love story. A
certain amount of suspense is imparted
to it by a Gyppo sleuth who has the
complete freedom of the criminal-slum,
and who forecasts early in the piece that
the methods he’s pursuing will eventually
land the crim. by the heels. His
“methods” turn out to be a matter of
using some lure to draw crim. out of
his safe retreat into the open town, in
which design eventually the ladies play
their time-dishonored part. But this is not
made into anything like a telling drama.
It slowly degenerates into melodrama,
with the sleuth only succeeding in be-
coming more and more comic as it
proceeds.
As a whole the film leaves the impres-
sion that its makers would have liked
to make a strong drama of life in the
raw, but found consideration of the box-
office too much for them. Taken as
merely a piece of emotionalised fiction,
in which even the “unhappy” ending is
an appeal to sentimentalism, it is well
up to standard. But it tries to be much
more than that, and therefore is dis-
appointing, not for what it is, but for
what it aims to be and isn’t.
“I’ll Give a Million.”
Warner Baxter, Marjorie Weaver.
Main offering at Sydney Embassy, this
lightly amusing hotchpotch of romantic
artificiality is pleasant enough entertain-
ment of the kind that is just as pleasantly
forgotten a moment later.
Baxter is getting on a bit for these
frothy concoctions, but this present role
fits him without much sagging. One of
Uncle Sam’s favored, blessed with several
million dahlars and fed up to his hind
molars with a few thousand parasitic
Charles Boyer registers wicked criminal’s noble homesickness under considerate
eye of Gyppo Sherlock (Joseph Calleia ) in “Algiers,” at Sydney Plaza.
hangers-on, he takes a header from his
yacht to prevent a tramp from commit-
ting suicide somewhere off the south of
France. Temporary absence unnoticed
while yacht continues towards Gahd’s
Own, leaving waterlogged pair to struggle
ashore.
Before dozing off for the night in
tramp’s hut Baxter expounds some
muddled philosophy on the milk of
human kindness, mentioning casually that
he’d give a million francs for a real friend
—someone who’d show him an act of
kindness without expecting anything in
return. Next morning he has faded with
tramp’s duds, leaving evening regalia and
several thousand francs behind. News-
sleuth scents yarn, and rumor circulates
that millionaire disguised as tramp is
wandering countryside prepared to donate
a million francs to anyone bestowing a
little kindness on him.
Thereafter the Riviera is paradise for
tramps. Beaks dismiss charges against
them, coppers block traffic to escort them
across intersections, the local mayor nabs
one as his special protege, restaurants de-
clare open house for them, benevolent old
ladies flush them from their natural habi-
tat and any unwary deadbeat goes
abroad at the risk of being philanthropi-
cally suffocated.
Peter Lorre is the vagabond with
suicidal tendencies, and a remarkably
good job he makes of it, but prince of
’em all is John Carradine. With ring-
barked walking cane and finger-free
gloves, airy shoes and well-ventilated
pants, a ten-inch cigarette holder and a
pavement butt, plus the manner of a king,
he makes one of the most magnificent
deadbeats ever witnessed. He is, of
course, marked down as the missing
millionaire, and naturally exhibits no
qualms about taking the job.
Baxter meanwhile is exploring a
strange world, like a kid with a new toy,
and drifts into the sphere of the Weaver
lass, a refreshing little minx who at least
doesn’t have to drape mountainous close-
ups across the screen to express herself.
A monkey from the circus where she
earns a crust goes walkabout and snaffles
Baxter’s last smoke ; the Weaver lass trails
up in the rear, the monk, fades again, the
pair of them go off in hurried pursuit,
and next thing Baxter has a steady job
as night-nurse to half a dozen man-eat-
ing felines.
And so it patters along, Baxter, when
the occasion arises, trying to establish his
real identity and being run in for fraud,
the Weaver lass bailing him out with
oof she’d obtained by promising to take
the primrose path with another chap, and
so on, etc., etc., all at a fair pace and all
totally superficial and of no consequence
whatsoever, except that it’s as good a
way as most on offer of whiling away an
idle hour or so.
“Four Daughters.”
Priscilla, Rosemary and Lola Lane, Gale Page,
Claude Rains.
Main offering at Sydney Century, this
length of sisterly- and daughterly-
devotion is bearable enough for addicts
of such fare without threatening to bring
about a revolution in talkies.
It deals with the four feminine off-
spring of a benevolent old professorial
tune-smith and their trials and vicissi-
tudes as they venture into matrimony.
One has set upon splicing herself* to the
oof of a rotund businessman, another is
pondering over a chap who drives a
delivery van and the remaining two are
awaiting a brace of unwary males.
Into their ken drifts a personable young
chap busy climbing the musical ladder.
His attributes are many and his molars
pearly, so the four besiege him and
wonder which he’ll choose.
The third lass wins, and everything in
the garden’s lovely when enters a fatal-
istic young chap with a gloomy outlook.
Daughter Number One has resigned her-
self to moneyed rotundity, and Four has
chosen a career of warbling in preference
to matrimony, but Two is sorrowing
badly for personable young chap, who
has selected Three. Three makes noble
sacrifice, and lights out with gloomy
gent., leaving Two an open slather.
’Tisn’t right, of course. Two discovers
that she prefers vandriver, after all, and
Three finds that, though fatalist is very
pitiful and all that, she still wants her
original selection, who still wants her.
Could Hollywood tolerate such a state
of affairs? Of course it couldn’t.
“Numbered Woman," at Sydney Capitol,
is the 999,999 th exposition of the theme
wherein bewchus goil cleans up racket
when police can’t do the job. This time
she’s a nurse whose brother messes about
with some bonds and is nabbed for lift-
ing them, though, of course, he’s reelly
innocent all the time. By Hollywooden
law it follows that she lays the whole
bunch by the heels and finds true-lurv in
the arms of a sawbones. Tedious piffle.
“Night Spot," at Sydney Capitol, deals
with poor little innocent charmer who
lands job yawping in night-club. What’s
this? Why, the manager is a villain of
the deepest and dirtiest dye, and robs
moneyed clientele of its jools. Most un-
fortunate goil! Whatever will happen to
her now? Hold your seats there, there’s
a brace of hahnest cahps tootin’ trumpets
in the orchestra. Ah, well,* crime never
did pay, but ain’t lurv grand?
“Mademoiselle Docteur,” at Sydney
Embassy, is a war-time spy opus. Its
manufacturers introduced such a be-
wildering array of characters and dis-
guises and wandered about through so
much irrelevant balderdash that they
finally confounded even themselves,
threw in the towel, and set the fillum
loose for what little it was worth.
“Garden of the Moon," at Sydney Cen-
tury, has for setting a luxurious cock-
tail swillery which is the Mecca of
yawpers and dance-band leaders. Exact-
ing and intolerant proprietor is Pat
O’Brien, sweet young publicity agent is
Margaret Lindsay, and aspiring yawper
and band-leader is John Payne. Film
fills in allotted running time, with an
occasional touch of humor and the assist-
ance of a brace of vocal contortionists
and a sassiety dame’s apelike prodigy,
who at regular intervals clambers up
artificial coconut palms, descends with a
sample of fruit and mumbles “Haw-haw-
haw —coconuts.”
The Ballet.
The choreographers of the Russian
Ballet continue to toss fresh items into
the repertoire at Melbourne Majesty’s
with the nonchalance of artistic million-
aires.
“Protee,” the latest, was also one of
the queerest. A group of maidens sug-
gesting figures from an Etruscan vase clad
in modern bathing clothes pray for the
appearance of Protee, prophet of the sea.
He arrives in the person of Anton
Dolin, as red-limbed and majestic as a
member of a beach lifesaving club. A
strange geometrical dance ensues, and
the god leaps back into the sea.
From the point of view of physical
excellence, the ballet was an eyeful, but
from the point of view of dancing it
was less satisfying than “Danses Slaves
et Tziganes.” The first dance was quiet
and graceful and brought out a posse of
lovely Slavs, among whom stood out
Denisova, youngest and most lissome
member of the co.
After this light breeze the succeeding
dance of gipsies came in like a gale.
It is these contrasts which make an
observer feel that the ballet-makers are
pastmasters at getting the most out of
the elaborate instrument they play.
Wirth’s in Melbourne.
The Greatest Show on Earth turned
up at the old address, Olympia, Mel-
bourne, and began presenting the
Greatest Show of Wirth’s. The five
existing Wirths present a wonderful show
which has moved with the times to the
extent that one thrill succeeds another
with the swiftness of the best vaudeville.
The house being, packed on the night
he went along, The Bulletin man was
accommodated in the ring in imminent
danger of having an elephant sit itself
in his lap or of a Flying de Vard shoot-
ing out of the roof and knocking his head
off. Even the clowns were funny, which
is quite untraditional; and the crowd
recognised the fact with more laughter
in one night than has been heard at


WORTH ITS WEIGHT IN GOLD
VITA-VIGOROSO FOR MEN AND
WOMEN.
“VIGOROSO” (tablet form) defi-
nitely “STANDS ALONE’’ as a
German Scientific Hormone or Gland
Preparation. Its use will RECHARGE
THE BODY with Physical Strength
and Energy and promote Long Life,
Activity, Strength and Vitality, even
in advanced years. “VIGOROSO”
tablets are well recommended and
prescribed by Dr. E. Schubert, M.D.,
of Munich, Dr. Ludwig Kris, M.D.,
and Dr. S. Leibshardt, M.D., of
Vienna, who attest the efficacy of
“VIGOROSO” as used and prescribed
by them. FULL PARTICULARS OF
INGREDIENTS of “VIGOROSO” will
be supplied to any Bona-fide Medical
Practitioner. Price of “VIGOROSO”
Tablets: 50 Tablets 12/6, Double
Quantity 21/-. JOHN CECIL, Dept.
V.V., Box 1853 K, G.P.0., Sydney
N.S.W., Distributing Agent for Aus-
tralia.
TfrfJ&uCLetia
Limerick Competitions
SIXTH COMPETITION
£5O Prizes
The advertisement concerning the
Sixth £5O Limerick Competition
appears in this issue on Page 4 i
(Radio Page).
Information about the Fifth and
Seventh Competitions is included-
IW
m
: :: ::: : :: : : : : : :
/
%
l \
\ V
m
• • •
Calrme later
I've just bought a
VALET'
What a performance, what scenes, some men make
about shaving! When all the time a Valet would
shave them twice as quickly and twice as well. The
Valet self-stropping razor is always ready. No bits and
pieces to put together. The blade’s ready in position.
Just strop it for a second or so and it comes up keen
and sharp for the shave. Each Valet blade will last you
for weeks. You can buy a Valet razor from 4/6d.
OF ALL
DEALERS
BRITISH MADE
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
VALET AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
most other entertainment addresses in the
past twelve months.
Direct. from Europe, Arnold Acker-
man put his six lionesses and one majes-
tic lion through their paces ; Nellie Con-
nely and Ron Clark presented a grace-
ful jockey act, and the Three Mavedas
a Japanese balancing turn which was as
neat and pretty as it was sensational. The
eldest Leotard placed a heavy steel pole
on his cast-iron head while his male and
female accomplices performed feats of
daring in the roof. Lisa Aberle hung
herself from a trapeze, and put between
her powerful teeth another trapeze on
which one of her hefty masculine friends
hung himself; and to show how easy
it was, the giant of the trio then took
her place and invited both his friends to
suspend themselves from the steel trap
he is pleased to call his mouth.
The skill displayed mounted in a steady
crescendo until only a sense of duty
enabled present commentator to watch
its culmination in the De Vards defy-
ing death for 20 minutes in the vicinity
of the roof.
Edward Goll Recital.
Few visiting virtuosi would have
attempted the feat that pianist Edward
Goll achieved at Melbourne Town Hall
on Saturday night by playing almost
continuously from a little after eight till
close on eleven a programme that in-
cluded the Liszt transcription of
Bach’s Organ Fantasia and Fugue in
G minor, a panel of Schumann, the
“Appassionata,” followed by a sonata
of Scarlatti by way of encore, a lovely
Chopin panel and a concluding series
of assorted pieces, finishing up with the
gigantic chords of a Liszt rhapsody.
Also, the veteran musician did what
isn’t done by accompanying his soloist,
Madame Elsa Gertrude. The soprano
may have been thrown off her form by
having to face a metropolitan audience
for the first time ; she comes from Hamil-
ton. Anyway, deficiencies of the vocal
part of the programme may have stimu-
lated Goll. He captured his audience
with the Beethoven sonata and ran away
with it in the Chopin group. His final
encores were just as freshly played.
Crime in the Surgery.
Adelaide Repertory’s latest venture, to
three full houses, is the new but already
well-known “Dr. Clitterhouse” drama;
Henry Roberts producer. The medico’s
dangerous and cunning “research” craze
was well brought out by Kenneth Robert-
son. Gwen Coffey and Roxy Sims were
the two girls ; and, in a whole bunch of
professional crooks, Donald Noblet
(morose) and Frank Waters (cheerful)
had the best chances.
Foreign Pictures from Homes.
The National Art Gallery of N. S.
Wales, branching outside its usual
routine, has skirmished around among
“connoisseurs and prominent art collec-
tors of Australia” and borrowed sufficient
pictures of European origin to make up
a show.
As a show it is neither very good nor
very bad ; its main interest is the light
it casts on the art tastes of various well-
known citizens whose collections are
represented.
A judicious buyer is Sydney business-
man Charles Lloyd Jones, himself a
pretty good painter. From his walls
come a characteristic Whistler, a dashing
“Tunis Dancers,” by lacovleff, and a
fair Renoir. A splendid chalk drawing
of C. L. Jones by lacovleff is also a
feature.
Howard Hinton lent a graceful
“Summer,” by Durden, and the well-
known and admirable “Sister Rigoletta”
of Jan de Beers, Sydney architect B. J.
Waterhouse (now one of the Fifteen In-
dependents) has contributed the suave
“Black Glove” and “Lady in Black,” by
E B. Lintoft, a genial Lamorna Birch
landscape and some good drawings.
Hans Heysen’s interest in lacovleff’s
“Abyssinian Landscape” is understand-
able ; those bare hills are very like the
Aroona country.
Mrs. Will Ashton, wife of the Gallery
Director, makes a brave show in which
Hughes-Stanton, Georges de Sloover,
Julius Olsson, H. M. Wilson, Algernon
Talmadge and some lesser lights are rep-
resented. Sydney businessman S. H.
Ervin, whose pictures are fortified by
some fine pieces of sculpture by Bayes
and Reid Dick, can boast as members
of his collection Brangwyn’s “Fruit
Sellers,” the graceful but very artificial
“Springtime” of Charles Sim, R.A., a
nice “Sunlight and Shadow,” by Clausen,
R.A., an old-masterish “Boy with Pony”
by Munnings, R.A., a really fine Russell
Flint, “Odysseus in Hades,” and other
sound pictures bearing well-known
British names.
Good names, however, it must be sadly
recorded, are more prevalent than good
pictures. Courbet, Utrillo, Picasso,
Pissaro, Van Gogh, Augustus John,
Sickert, Muirhead Bone, Lee Hankey and
Laura Knight make a better splash in
the catalogue than on‘the walls.
Art in Adelaide.
John Eldcrshaw has a show, small but
good, at Bayly’s Gallery, his first here
for some years, during which he has
made great advance in his brushwork.
Solidity and simplicity are his main notes,
and perhaps this is why he is fond of
the rocks and old buildings of the Speck
—less so of beauty and far-spreading
landscape. His technique varies notably
in his water-colors. The National Gal-
lery of Adelaide has bought one of these,
a very old “Church on the Hill” at
Richmond (Tas.).
Maude Gum is a local painter, showing
at the Society of Arts, and much im-
proved of late. Daintiness is her strong
point, with the cult of the eucalypt, her
namesake, which is seen here with all
sorts of backgrounds. Water-color is her
best medium.
The National Gallery of S.A. has had
a handsome gift on the dispersal of the
A. O. Barrett collection in Melbourne,
Mrs. Barrett presenting Lambert’s
“Bathers,” a long-ago portrait-group of
his wife and two small sons with Thea
Proctor. Mr. and Mrs. Barrett, whose son
is now Lord Mayor of Adelaide, made a
special visit to unveil the gift.
A Vassilieff Show.
Vassilieff, the Russian who has taken
up residence in Melbourne, hangs a
couple of score Australian landscapes,
streetscapes and slum studies at Riddell’s
Galleries, Little Collins-street.
Mr. Vassilieff’s art is suggestive of
something; but so is almost any line
anybody cares to put on paper, or a
printed word, for that matter. In Mr.
Vassilieff’s pictures everything is left to
the spectator. The result is a collection
of symbols which have little more rela-
tion to nature than the design on a
carpet or a curtain.
The best of the pictures indicate that
the artist was stimulated by some vivid
sensation of light and shadow and
stopped short at the moment when he
was beginning to say something signi-
ficant.
Aileen Dent’s Show.
Aileen Dent, whose show is at the
Leighton Galleries, Melbourne, has some
soft impressions of the Yarra, and gets
a good deal of the character of the land-
scape into “Moonrise, Canberra.”
Of her Sydney Harbor studies she is
in her best form in a view of the bridge
divesting itself of early morning mists
in preparation for its daily business.
Half a dozen large portraits look like
excellent likenesses of their sitters. The
portrait of cancer-research man Cherry
gets nearer to being both a likeness and
a living picture than the others.
A Felton Bequest Cezanne.
“La Route Montante,” the first
Cezanne to enter Australia except by
way of reproductions, was handed over
to Vic. National Gallery by the Felton
Bequest last week, and Melbourne
modernists are considering its pros and
others are looking for its cons. If anti-
modernists expected something unique
and freakish they were disappointed.
Manet might have painted such a subject,
and probably would have painted it
better; so would have Constable.
On the slope of a green hill are trees
and houses with a road mounting to
them. There is nothing to suggest that
Cezanne was concerned with some
strange theory about design or that he
was trying to do more than put down
what he thought he saw. The effect is
of lightness, but whether the lightness is
due to the use of light paint or to an
effect of light it is for the experts to de-
cide. The Rembrandt self-portrait is full
of dark paint, but the effect is of light.
It is difficult to know why some Aus-
tralian modernists claim Cezanne as
their artistic parent if this is a typical
example of his work. In a good Aus-
tralian impressionist exhibition it would
hardly excite remark, either for its
excellence or for its unusualness. The
price was £7500.
Artistic Isolation.
“F.S.” charges in:
John Banks, the Sydney aitist, just returned
from a world scamper, repeats the old plaint
that it is necessary for our painters to keep
jn touch with new art trends overseas to mini-
mise Australia’s artistic isolation.
Why is it necessary, and where is Australia’s
isolation?
The Sydney and other galleries may be short
of good examples, but Melbourne Nat. Gal-
lery, thanks to Alfred Felton, has as fine a
collection of old masters as all but a few of
the galleries Mr. Banks could have seen in
Europe. Some European galleries have more
pictures, but that doesn’t mean that they have
more good ones.
Moreover, every Australian gallery has excel-
lent reproductions of all the greatest pictures,
as also have the art shops, and a good reproduc-
tion will tell the student just as much as the
original; it will also tell him just as little if
he does not know what to look for. As for the
new art trends, they are all well represented
in Australia.
Mr. Banks might just as well say, with Pro-
fessor of Literature Cowling, of the Melbourne
University, that Australian writers are isolated.
There arc plenty of men and women in Aus-
tralia, and therefore plenty of human nature;
and human nature is presumably the subject
matter of the writer, just as what nature looks
like is the subject matter of the painter.
The Dutch painters of the time of Rembrandt
thought their education wasn’t complete unless
they went to Italy. Rembrandt wouldn’t go
to Italy. He became a distinguished painter,
and most of the others arc forgotten.


Sticfi a
> fiinliJl ....
m
mm
' Stocked by all 'y
Garages, Service
Stations and Auto Ac-
cessory Dealers through-
out Australia and
New Zealand.
CLEANS tfOUSMQ
l Ort£ pPBBAT»f
THI EASY AUTO POLISH
You'll be amazed at the way RE-PO Liquid Polish
and Cleaner will restore the original sheen and
showroom beauty to your car ... It protects the
finish, removes traffic* film, prevents colour fading...
and RE-PO is so EASY to use.
For those who prefer a wax polish RE-PO Auto Wax
has been developed ... It gives a beautiful,
lustrous finish.
FREE TRIAL OFFER.. . . Try RE-PO at our ex-
pense. Get a generous trial supply of both the liquid
and the wax. Simply mail attached coupon to RE-PO,
Box 4207 XX, G.P.0., Sydney, enclosing 4d. in stamps
for postage.
NAME
ADDRESS...
B2oi
KFEPS THAT BEAUTIFUL SHOWROOM FINISH/
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Saturday’s travellers to the Dutch fete
had no trouble in finding the way. When
they stepped from the tram at Victoria-
road, Double Bay, in front of them
flaunting tulips blazed in a great green
tub. These indicated the path to Elaine,
the Hubert Fairfax home. From the
top lawn with its creeper-covered balus-
trade to the one at the foot of the garden
which leads through an impressive iron
gate on to a strip of beach, the fun was
in full cry. All the helpers wore Dutch
costume. The girls swung along in their
brightly-striped full skirts, and you won-
dered how they stepped so blithely in
their clogs till you saw that, these were
of buff buckram, and were worn over
the wearers’ own shoes.
Lady Wakehurst sent apologies, so
Mayor Nock made the opening speech,
after Mrs. Hubert Fairfax had welcomed
all to her garden, adding a timely re-
minder about keeping the flower-beds
neat. The speeches were made from a
balcony high and remote from the
crowds, but the voices floated out from
the loudspeakers to the farthest corner
of the grounds. Dr. Brodie Grant and
A.B.C. chairman Cleary added their testi-
mony in the cause of the t.b. sufferer.
W. G. Layton, a great worker for the
Anti-T.B. movement, was unable to
come.
Mayoress Nock, in cerulean crepes,
who was president, added her blonde
slimness to the balcony. Up there, too,
were Dr. and Mrs. Sterling Levis. Her
Dutch costume had for complement a
trig little apron and a wide Dutch cap
of finest lace. After the speeches Lize
Jensen, and two other small girls pre-
sented bunches of tulips to important
ladies. Lize was dressed as a little Dutch
boy with a wooden yoke across her
shoulders from which a pail hung at each
side. These pails were packed with the
presentation tulips. She also said a verse
written by Mrs. Levis:
Lady of the garden sweet,
We give you greeting!
Time is fleeting,
And so we must not linger long,
Nor waste the day 'in verse and song,
So please you let these blossoms say
Our loving thanks in their sweet way.
The Kelso Kings, who in other years
had lent the grounds of Quambi, their
old Woollahra home, for the fete, were
among the honored guests; so were
Group Commander de la Rue and his
wife. And indeed, with the Air Force
Band playing so blithely that the im-
mense bed of tulips that had suddenly
bloomed on the tennis court practically
tossed their caps over thf. windmill, who
should be more welcome than the De la
Rues? Mrs. Pao, Marie Bremner, Mrs.
Jensen, whose stall was almost double
Dutch with cheese and chocolate ; Mar-
garet Cary, who sought guessers for the
number of peas in a bottle ; the Julius
and Parker ladies, Joan Levis and Min-
ister for Health FitzSimons were among
the noted.
The grass on the lawns of the Mallick
home at Mosman was dressed to a turn
for the garden and music party arranged
by Peggy Bell. This was in the interests
of the Val Sullivan Scholarship Fund,
and the roll-up was about a hundred
strong. The afternoon brought another
10 guineas to the treasury, and Peggy,
very handsome in a white and navy out-
fit, added her own fresh soprano to the
programme. Val proved her brilliance
and her musical sensibility in several
piano works. Mrs. Mallick, who had
lent her grounds, her ballroom and
billiard-room for the party, received in
greenly flowered chiffons, and Margaret
Chalmers, who started the fund and has
been its strong support, smiled under
the straight brim of her black sailor hat.
Mrs. Florence Taylor brought a great
company of Arts Club members, pretty
Joan Brown came with her pianist
mother, and Betty Steele, in turquoise,
sang in a high, sweet voice. Ken
Neate added his tenor, and Mary Brett
played accompaniments with amazing
ease. Lorna Poynting was the afternoon’s
violinist, and a very small Pavlova
pirouetted. A bright number was a song
and dance from “The Quaker Girl.”
There were tea and a few speeches.
The Wahroonga Music Club holds its
concerts in the Scots Church hall. This
is off a tree-shadowed road along which
the headlights of cars threw fleeting
brilliance one night last week, when the
eighth concert of the seasQn was the
attraction. From all the upper reaches
of the North Shore line the audience was
drawn —a very comfortably-placed audi-
ence, judging by the cars. Some of the
listeners, as well as the performers, came
from the shadow of the Harbor Bridge.
Tenor Charles Benson, violinist Lionel
Lawson and accompanist Fred Hyde made
the journey and arrived as secretary C.
L. Westbrook and his wife were giving
a final glance at the placing of the chairs
and the flower arrangements.
These concerts are a community
sociability, and after the programme
coffee or tea is drunk in more or less
peril and the artists are congratulated.
Mrs. Westbrook, who knew everybody
present, was busy with greetings and
introductions. The presidential Crichton
Smiths and Mrs. Charles Benson sat
together. Laurence Godfrey Smith
played the accompaniments for Mrs.
Macneil, who sang all her songs in
German. The Percy Ash couple were
there ; so were the Clive Blackwells, Mrs.
George Bryant and Miss Yates, who
drove a party from Double Bay. The
Walter Swinsons, who had a dinner party
first, brought on their guests, among
them Miss Mary Fairfax, the W. J.
Clearys and Mrs. Bainton; Charles
Benson, singing at the club for the first
time, seemed to capture his North Shore
audience from his first Liszt number.
The tragically sudden death of Lady
Tempest and her daughter Hilary deeply
distressed a wide circle of Sydney friends.
Lady Tempest, a charming and entertain-
ing Englishwoman, first came to Sydney
with her daughter over two years ago.
They liked Sydney so well that they
decided to return for another holiday.
They did so, and for a while this year
they lived in Lord Beauchamp’s house at
Bellevue Hill. Then they toured Queens-
land, and, returning to Sydney, took a
flat in one of Greenknowe-avenue’s ex-
pensive buildings. It was here Lady
Tempest collapsed and died in the early
hours of one morning last week. Her
daughter Hilary, who had been in ill
health for some time, died the following
day in St. Vincent’s. The two had been
inseparable friends. Lady Tempest was
the widow of Sir Percy Tempest, a well-
known civil engineer, who was asso-
ciated with the Southern Railway Com-
pany. In pre-war days he designed a
tunnel to pass under the English Channel,
between Dover and Calais.
The name Alcorn is well known both
in Moss Vale and in West Maitland, so
Margaret Macquarie (Meg) Alcorn’s en-
gagement caused quite a stir in country
circles. Her father was Dr. John Alcorn,
of Moss Vale, and her grandfather in
his day was medical adviser to half of
West Maitland. Fianc£ Garnet Lucas
Stacy is a real station product. He is the
eldest son of the late A. L. Stacy, and
of Mrs. Stacy, of Mundewoi, Singleton.
Photograph from Falk.
The Queen Victoria Club, which
devotes itself to music all the year round,
went merry on Saturday night and
danced at the Forum Club from 8.15
onwards. President Mrs. P. White re-
ceived the guests, who then drifted to the
ballroom or to the bridge tables. There
were specialty dance numbers for which
prizes were given. Thelma Houston was
the secretary, and Mrs. E. Rutherford
the treasurer.
Beginning to-morrow, Parramatta will
celebrate its 150th birthday. Rightly
enough the old town with its stately park
will include a pageant in its ten days’
programme. Elizabeth Farm, old Gov-
ernment House set in the park, high
above the river, and Lenox Bridge will
regain something of the lustre of their
beginnings.
Hundreds of women made the climb up
to the towering top deck of the Oronsay
when the Killara branch of the Smith
Family staged a party. This was to benefit
the Mount Arcadia Recovery Home, and
was one of the successful money-makers
of the week. Bridge and a fashion parade
were the two entertainments of the after-
noon. But the bridge tables were
deserted, and the lounge where beauteous
maids stepped and posed in raiment for
the beach, in morning, afternoon and
evening frocks, was packed to conges-
tion point. Mrs. Chapman acted as com-
mentator as the fashions made entry and
exit. Co-treasurer Mrs. A. E. Macartney,
who had worked as hard as a beaver in
the cause, was unfortunately too ill to be
present.
The girls who displayed the fashions
wore their nails lacquered in the most un-
usual ways. One girl’s were pea-green.
As they walked Mrs. Ralph Huntly
played music suitable to the mode. The
guests of honor were Mrs. Arnold John-
son and Mrs. L. J. Morshead. They
were received by the afternoon’s hostess,
Mrs. Boyce, and to each of them Judy
Leunig gave a posy of flowers. Thelma
Houston, very graceful and Spanish
senorita-ish with her black hair and black
frock, sang solos, and then duets with
Newton Goodson. Ron Wilkinson’s
violin added to the afternoon’s gaiety,
Olive Wood and Mrs. H. H. Palmer were
also responsible for musical moments.
Maorilander Nelle Scanlan paused
long enough in Sydney before going on
to her native land to renew old friend-
ships and to be the guest of honor of
jhe P.E.N. Club. Nelle has just published
her ninth novel, A Guest of Life. This
begins in England and ends in Enzed.
Before she took to novel-writing, Nelle
was a journalist, and when she went to
take up residence in London she still
acted as special correspondent for the
country with the most southerly lamp-
post in the world. This writer’s pen is
both spirited and romantic, and A Guest
of Life should become a permanent
boarder in our Pacific island homes.
Photograph from Falk.
The French dictionary was once more
prominent on many a bookshelf, when
Sydney’s old friend the Rigault de
Genouilly was again beside the Quay, bits
of its company’s washing waving like
bannerets in the breeze. The officers of
the French sloop smilingly brushed
up their acquaintance with our citizens,
and the reception given in Elizabeth
Bay House by French Consul-General
Tremoulet last week was the right sort of
opportunity. The guests here were mostly
of the French community, but Austra-
lians present seemed to suffer from no
lack of conversation. Captain Plante and
his officers seemed happy to be back.
The P.E.N. Club dinner last week was
planned as a welcome to president Elliot
Napier and to Maorilander Nelle
Scanlan. However, Elliot did not arrive
from Maoriland in time, so all the honors
went to the visitor. If ever anyone paid
for her supper, she did. Her account of
her own getting to and from the Abbey
for the Coronation had a group of lis-
teners in peals of laughter. Of course,
the really sublime touch was providing
herself for the nine hours’ sitting with
some claret, which to accommodate the
size of her bag she poured into a small
whisky-flask. Then so that she might not
shock the nobility near by by tipping
the flask to her lips, she tucked two
straws alongside two slender chicken
sandwiches and a bar of chocolate. When
thirst prevailed, the Enzedder opened her
bag as though to study her complexion,
slipped the straw into the flask and had
a nip.
Whether it’s the best art or not in the
loan exhibition at the National Gallery
this Letter prefers the “Black Glove,”
which smacks of the romantic. Some of
the color in these paintings is so strong it
simply blazes. Others have a tender,
Hilder-like quality. The Gallery’s new
president, John Lane Mullins, opened
this show of English and Continental
works of art, which have the distinction
of having been plucked temporarily from
the walls of Australian homes. Barbara
and Hilda Lane Mullins were there, both
beautifully tailored in grey. A striking
color note was introduced into the twi-
light of the gallery by Joan Barnes in
her frock of red-and-yellow plaid silks,
with red fox furs to finish. Cousin Dora
Jarret was with her, very smart as to
sailor hat. Mrs. Bertie Kelly came with
daughter Mrs. McPhillamy. The Hans
Heysens, Norman Carter, Syd Ure Smith,
John Brackenreg, and Technical Col-
lege Phyllis Shillito and her mother were
admirers.
Paintings by the late Charles Bryant,
not previously shown in Sydney, and
part of a collection just received from
London, will be on view in the Blaxland
Galleries from the 26th of this month to
November 8. The official opening will
be the work of Frank Hutchens this
afternoon at three o’clock.
Do not forget Charles Philip’s piano
recital next Sunday evening in the Inde-
pendent Theatre Club rooms. This is
to help pay for the club pianoforte.


Uffly Fat
Banished
Excess Weight
Easily Dissolved by
New Natural Method
Dr. D. McClaskey, New York, says:—
"Acid conditions in Intestinal Tract
(Self-Poisoning) is real cause of the
deposit of adipose tissue
Sell-poisoning (autoxima) overthrows the
body's alkaline reserve and develops
acid conditions which impair the normal
functions of the body. Instead of the
body eliminating the fatty acids (which
result from digestion) in a natural way,
these fatty acids are absorbed into the
blood stream with other waste residues.
I
Was 10 si. 6 lbs.
Now 9 st. 3 lbs.
Hamilton, December, 23.
"Your wonderful
\ Coloseptic has been
the means of reducing
my weight over 17 lbs.
... I tried all kinds
of things before I used
Coloseptic, but they
had no effect . . .
COLOSEPTIC keeps
me so well."
—Miss J.M.
COLOSEPTIC overcomes acidity, activates
nutrition, dehydrates the excess moisture
weight, breaks up the fatty acids, sweeps
the intestines clean of all heavy ferment-
ing residues and other acid products and
passes them smoothly out of the system.
It also activates the dehydrating action oi
the other vital eliminative organs the
kidneys, pores of the skin and respiratory
apparatus. COLOSEPTIC is the one
natural, safe way to permanent weight
control.
Trial Oiier..
Send 3d. in stamps to COLOSEPTIC
(Aust.) Ltd., 26 O'Connell Street, Sydney,
and mention the name ol this paper.
Coloseplic
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
fds
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Baying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Personal and Missing Friends.
SHOULD this come to the notice of THOMAS
LAMBTON D’ARCY, believed to be in
Queensland, would he please write his sister,
Mrs. C. Blackburn, 18 Domett Street, Gis-
borne, New Zealand?
DUNLAP, HEATHERS McBRIDE, deceased,
formerly a Police Constable of the Victorian
Police; Melbourne, and late of Flemington
Anyone knowing the whereabouts of or pos-
sessing any information regarding his daughter
EVELINE FRANCES STOGOLL (nee
DUNLAP), who left Melbourne for Perth about
40 years ago, and took up nursing under the
name of Mrs. Dunlop, please communicate with
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY, LIMITED, 401-403 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
ARCHIBALD STEWART (sometimes known
as Archibald Jordan Stewart and sometimes
known as Archibald Anderson), last heard of
in the Swan Hill, Victoria, district, but formerly
of Kalgoorlie, Western Australia, kindly com-
municate with W. L. L. ARCHER, Solicitor,
Mortlake, Victoria?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1996 of 1935.
IN RE EMILY JANE WILKINSON formerly
Emily Jane Loder of 15 Albion Street
Waverley in the State of N.S.W. wife of
Stuart Clifford Wilkinson.
AND the said STUART CLIFFORD WIL-
KINSON formerly of No. 15 Albion Street
Waverley aforesaid but now of C/o Main
Roads Department Depot Rosehill near
Sydney aforesaid whose private address is
unknown to the Petitioner.
TO STUART CLIFFORD WILKINSON late
of 15 Albion Street Waverley.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EMILY JANE
WILKINSON has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of adultery AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before the
Sixth day of January One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-nine and in the event of you
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of October, 1938.
C. K. BODY, Registrar.
M. A. H. FITZHARDINGE & BLAMEY,
15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Mr. and Mrs. H. H. Krohn saw their
Ortelle’s Star win the Moonee Valley
Cup (Mr. Krohn races as “H. Hedges”).
Their son Keith stayed at home listen-
ing to the radio in between studying for
an exam.
In the dressing the tailored suit and
lightweight woollen coat predominated,
with veils on almost every hat, and occa-
sional cyclamen make-ups glimpsed
through their meshes. Mrs. George Arm-
strong wore an infinitesimal petunia hat
with her black three-quarter-coat en-
semble trimmed with Persian lamb. Suits
were worn by Mrs. Bill Seymour, Mrs.
Neville Fraser and Mary Baillieu ; Miss
Baillieu’s was petrol-blue with a diago-
nally-striped blouse in blues and yellows.
Also among the tailored-suit brigade was
Mrs. Robert Landale, who chose a
white hat as a compliment to the early-
afternoon sunshine. Mrs. D. H. Dureau’s
lapel posy was of lily-of-the-valley—the
day’s favorite flower.
The Arts and Crafts show occupied
the Lower Town Hall throughout last
week. This year there were several
handlooms in action and a potter’s wheel,
at which skilful young craftswomen prac-
tised one of the oldest arts in existence.
Pottery brooches in the form of small
masks in a variety of colors were novel
jewellery trifles. The Society for Crippled
Children and girls from P.L.C., from St.
Margaret’s at Malvern and Berwick and
from Morongo College sent along
samples of their embroidery, craftwork,
toys, etc. In the tapestry section old
and new were side by side with a stool
worked by Miss Kerr, of Northumber-
land, England, about 1830, placed next
to a chair, its embroideries performed by
the skilful fingers of Mrs. O’Dell
Crowther. Visiting the exhibition Lady
Huntingfield let fall a word of wisdom
regarding rugs. The handwoven article
is warm and light, whereas some
machine-made rugs are warm and heavy.
Candles guaranteed not to drip, which
come in pastel shades all the way from
Sweden, sold faster than hot muffins on a
v/inter’s night in the Swedish section of
the Arts and Crafts Exhibition. These
candles are the success of the dinner
tables when lit and mingled with the
flowers in vases or wide bowls. Among
otter Swedish exhibits were delightful
pieces of glassware, interesting pottery
and craft work in birchwood, smooth,
light and clean for platters, ladles and
quaint cruets, salt-shakers like eggs and
pepper-pots made in the guise of impres-
sionistic chickens. Curios with per-
sonality were angels and animals made
of straw, the rosy-cheeked celestials com-
plete with haloes, reindeer with horns
and the billygoats with ears of barley
for whiskers.
Gradually larger spots of emerald-
green are appearing among the brown
and salmon-pink covers of the Bush
Library at the Victoria League. The
pinks are children’s books; the greens
have a personal touch, as they are
authors’ presentations, their presence due
to an idea of the League Library’s hon.
sec., Mrs. O. W. Tiegs, who a year ago
suggested such gifts to the writing fra-
ternity. The response has been gratify-
ing, and the authors often add a friendly
letter with one or more copies of their
published brain-children. Bush folk in
need of reading matter are never refused
by the League Library, and the com-
mittee welcomes inquiries for books
from prospective members in all parts of
the State and from as far away as
Malaya, New Guinea and Nauru for gift
parcels of magazines. Library members
pay a shilling a year, which helps to
cover freight. A library centre may be
formed with only five members, or indi-
vidual subscribers in isolated districts can
for the annual sum of 2s. 6d. receive
two parcels a year, each one containing
at least 15 books.
In the Broothorn photograph is
Prudence Fairbairn, who, with her
mother, Mrs. C. P. Fairbairn, is often
present at Ballet first nights. Prudence
was presented at Court during the last
season, and returned home a few weeks
ago after spending two years abroad.
Many young women, reminded last
week that they were daughters of
Rotarians, accepted fathers’ invitations to
go along to the Rotary Club’s daughters’
day luncheon. The majority of members
were present “paternally,” or at least as
husbands, wives deputising in some cases
for the younger generation. Introduc-
tions were merely a formality ; everybody
should have known his or her neighbor,
and members wore their “dinner-plate”
badges, too large to carry in a pocket.
Guests had smaller name cards attached
to their lapels, and in addition were pre-
sented one by one when their names
were called and each young woman stood
up, bowed, smiled and collected a round
of applause all to herself. In the large
room small tables were grouped around
the president’s long table. Among those
who attended were ex-president of Adel-
aide Rotary Club Ernie Short and his
daughter Mavis (tall and dark and wear-
ing a tall black hat). Professor Osborne
and Mollie, W. Angliss and his daughter
Eirene, Professor A. E. V. Richardson
and Yvonne, who found the cruets being
passed from all sides, she being the only
feminine guest at that particular table.
The after-luncheon speaker was Jocelyn
Hyslop, of the Board of Social Studies.
While Melbourne discusses form, mixes
itself good-night drinks and seeks its
pillows in the hope of dreaming the
winners of the big races, some 60 young
women are conferring about the serious
things of life with never the thought of
a racing-track, up in the gumtip-laden air
of Marysville. This 10 days’ conference
is a Y.W.C.A. fixture held in a different
place each year. The last conference
was organised by the physical depart-
ments and took place within earshot of
the booming breakers at Newcastle; this
year it chiefly embraces the groups known
as “Senior Activities.” Among speakers
who will address the girls during their
week in the country are Mrs. Clarence
Weber and Constance Duncan, and no
doubt Marjorie Cardwell will have some
interesting news to relate of her travels
in America as a delegate to the World
Youth Council. The gathering is at
Mary-Lyn, and in between periods of
discussion, folk dancing and gym. classes
there will be picnics, walking tours,
games of tennis and swimming if the
weather is warm enough.
The old Whybrow and Brewer homes,
adjoining properties at Kew, were taken
over and made into a Hospice last August
by some nuns from St. Vincent’s, who
are receiving sympathy and encourage-
ment for their scheme from practical-
minded friends. Mrs. Bernard Nolan is
planning the garden, Mrs. C. J. Ahern
has donated, among other things, orange-
trees, and the Red Cross has provided
folding chairs. Dr. Dick O’Sullivan’s sur-
prise packet came along on its hoof
power, and is the first inhabitant of the
dairy. Miss Cody is lending her home
and garden for a fete in February.
Although there are three Paddies on its
books, the youngest patient, aged six (the
eldest is 93), the handyman and the
sisters’ pet dog, the Hospice is non-sec-
tarian. It stands in three acres of ground
on a hilltop with an extensive view of
city, suburbs and some of the twists and
turns of the new Boulevard. All patients
are incurable cases. By donations £2OOO
has already been paid off initial costs.
Another £6OOO must be found by the
end of the year, in addition to £250 per
month maintenance.
A Jack Cato camera made this picture
of Vera Grist, a young Melbourne
dancer, winner of the Vic. Society of
Dancing’s scholarship. Vera was chosen
to take part in the augmented ensemble
scenes of “Le Coq d’Or” and even her
teacher, Baronova, didn’t recognise her
pupil in the wings just before the ballet
commenced, for she was completely dis-
guised as a dwarf with a beard and ruddy
cheeks. Vera is thrilled because Anton
Dolin has promised to give her lessons.
The magnificence of “Le Coq d’Or”
was presented for the first time in Mel-
bourne last week. Scenery and costumes
are lavish spectacles of color and move-
ment. Early scenes show the astrologer
and his golden cockerel (Riabouchinska)
against a quiet backcloth of the spires
and wall of a distant city. Comes a
contrast in the twinkling of an eye to
the king’s palace with its massed coloring,
dancers’ costumes, thrones and royal
couch (used by the stout old monarch
with the accompaniment of sleep music
and a drowsing Court), the anticipation
of a sumptuous banquet, the departure
of the princes to war in their coats of
mail and of the king on his rearing
charger (mounted per stepladder). An-
other change of scene and the story con-
tinues in a country of domed hills, a full
moon, jungle trees with huge red and
purple leaves and a battlefield containing
a cannon painted like the scales of a
mermaid. Then comes another change to
the tent of the Queen of Shemakhan
(Baronova) and the glowing colors of The
Arabian Nights and the Temple of the
Tooth, more and more groups of dancers,
camels, yaks and carnival figures, the
angry cockerel, the seductive, mocking
queen and the astrologer (Algeranoff)
demanding his rights, perishing and
coming to life again through his own
magic.
Among Ballet audiences are many
mothers and daughters who, hav-
ing similar tastes, seldom miss a pro-
gramme. Particularly appreciative are
Mrs. George Dickenson and Lynette, who
came to “Coq d’Or” both wearing black,
Lynette’s frock scattered with half-moons
of velvet upon its net yoke and puff
sleeves. Mrs. G. V. Lansell and Patricia
entertained ideas in common for black
skirts and figured tunics, mother’s in
many colors and Patricia’s covered in
black-and-white designs that might have
been taken from a notebook on horo-
scopes. Mrs. D. Cuming wore white chif-
fon, white birds in her hair and black
feather bows on her white shoes; daugh-
ter Athalie ornamented her hair with a
spray of lilac and her flowered satin
gown with diamente buttons. Mrs.
J. G. Purves and Valerie were also seen
as regular first-nighters. Pat Grace,
recently returned from the U.S.A., wore
a long evening coat to her toes of
riotously patterned uncrushable linen.
Another individualist was Mrs. Wesley
Ince, whose organza frock and little
bolero were of lavender, penny-spotted
in white.
Lichine’s last ballet “Protde” is an
artistic fragment danced by five nymphs
and a god in a temple by the sea. The
curl of the waves is suggested in the
scrolled designs upon the maidens’ cos-
tumes and in the shape of their wigs, by
Anton Dolin’s costume and sun-tanned
limbs, by the temple gate and the back-
cloth scenery, by the god’s first appear-
ance between two sea horses and the
climax of the ballet, his dive into space
over the parapet. Among those who wit-
nessed the first performance of this ballet
was Lichine himself (who, although he
admires Dolin, can’t help champing at
the bit when watching someone else in a
part he created for himself). Mrs. Angus
Macleod was present, a diminutive figure
in sea-green chiffon. Mrs. M. L. Bail-
lieu was blonde and beautiful in her
white ermine cape and frock like a pale-
gold cobweb. Betty Imes wore a diagon-
ally-striped satin frock ; Betty Gravestock
was in black net. Major and Mrs. Langs,-
low were there ; also Dr. R. H. Strong,
Mrs. Geoff Grimwade, in black with a
little white jacket, Mrs. Norman Barrett,
in white broderie anglaise with square
neck and puffed sleeves, and Mrs. Fred
Gilder, in purple-grape net.


QUALITY GIFTS from BAKERS’
G>
m
m
+H-
ry
618 The Travellers’ Manicure
Set, calf leather case; contains
Nail Clipper, Nail Scissor, Corn
Knife, Tweezer and File.
39/6 per case.
3326—Best Quality Cutting Out
Scissor, 7in. long.
Flower Cutting Secateur.
This Secateur cuts and
holds stem of flower. 13/6
m'.jm
f,o7—Seven Best Quality Scissors
in calf leather case.
62/6 per case.
y/'jnozaxz*
V,
k
Six Solid Silver Spoons, with
coloured enamel tops, in case.
35/- per case.
Saw Bread Knife, fine teeth, with
wood handle ducoed white.
5/- each.
W. Jno.
Write for Our Illustrated Catalogue.
BAKER
PTY.,
LTD.,
Cutlery Specialists for 50 Years.
3 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY
Add extra horse-power to your engine
with improved Pins!
\
t*
n!
f00P"
«S3SP
n
I*B
m
nPf R
mm
There is cl grade to suit your car ♦
SUPER PLUS ETHYL the premium grade
the ideal fuel for modern cars and trucks. Super Plus
is the only full Ethyl petrol that also contains benzol -and
offers you exceptionally high anti-knock quality together
with amazing miteagel
PLUS BENZOL is the outstanding motor spirit
in the standard grade field. Petrol-benzol are
sold in other markets at premium rates but Plus Benzol
is available in Australia at the standard grade price.
J\ ,|l REMEMBER -only C.O.R Petrols
HWT contain BENZOL.
BRITISH
AUSTRALIAN
PETROLS
fob EXTRA POWER EXTRA MILEAGE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Iranian
Incorporated"in Victoria with Bratcher at Melbourne =, Sydney := Brisbane := Adelatde =: Perth.
Oil Co. Ltd.)
Cl4l/27/SP
MORE ABOUT
THE DINOSAURUS
By “LORD LUVUS.”
THAT there should be a proposal
for the appointment of a professor
of fruit and vegetables to an Aus-
tralian university is not remark-
able ; the remarkable thing is that there
isn’t one already, as well as a professor
of fish and chips.
Plenty of fruit and vegetables is grown
in Australia, jnd no doubt they could be
grown better. There is no inherent
reason why a professor should not be
able to teach us how to grow them better,
if he is the right professor. But if a
professor is appointed and his advice is
followed, in a few years’ time Australia
may be growing the smallest apple with
the largest worm inside it on record.
When this is observed it will be naturally
concluded that what is wanted is more
professors, with the result that the apple
will become smaller than ever and the
worm even larger.
Victorian educationists held a confer-
ence the other day in Melbourne. The
traditional conclusion they came to was
that, as the kind of education we had
been given had produced dismal results,
we must have as much more of it as the
Government could afford to give us. In
the same way, when the Puritan morality
failed to make people good, all the Puri-
tans could think to do was to make it
sterner than ever, with the result that
there was a violent reaction back to the
naughtiness of the Stuarts.
The tendency to appoint professors is
a well-marked one in the history of the
human species. It appears when the
original stimulus to inventiveness has
departed owing to the lack of exceptional
individuals. Here may I be permitted
to reintroduce my old friend the dino-
saurus.
When the dinosaurus began to fear
extinction as the food supply dwindled it
went to its professors, who reported that
ii was suffering from malnutrition, and
advised it to eat more than ever. In
short, they gave it the sort of advice it
would have given itself, which is the way
of professors. The dinosaurus went on
eating until it grew so fat that it could
be chased about by a rabbit, and it grew-
so helpless that it could be pecked to
death by a sparrow.
This may be what is happening in
Europe. All the great nations believe in
greatness. Despite their greatness, they
got a terrible fr.ight the other day over a
tiny problem in Czechoslokavia. A couple
of individuals settled the thing sensibly
between them alter a few hours’ private
conversation while the professors were
fulminating in their respective countries.
But the response of the great nations
to the fright they got is to try to make
themselves greater than ever. The advice
professors are giving them is all along
the lines of more and more great-
. ness. One of these days they will become
so large and helpless that some little tribe
or country which does not believe so
slavishly in the tradition may be able to
.run over them as Attila overran the
Roman Empire. They will, metaphori-
cally speaking, be in a condition to be
chased about by a rabbit.
So, before an Australian professor of
fruit and vegetables is appointed, the
whole question of professors ought to be
considered in a perspective broad enough
to take in the present state of Europe and
the well-authenticated history and fate of
the dinosaurus. By professors, inciden-
tally, I don’t mean merely the university
variety —the press, the radio, the public
school and the pulpit are equally our
professors.
Parramatta is to celebrate its 150th
year as a city. It required a bit of special
legislation, but —it being Salary Grab
Week —the Assembly was in so oblig-
ing a mood that it could refuse “Parra”
nothing. Even Lang maundered senti-
mentally about “the old place.”


t
h
X
£
'-=£f
When
'a MAN
tells you s
that he is thankful
to Calvert’s Tooth
Powder for a life-
time free from
dental trouble and
for white teeth in
his old age—
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth!
W*
/ '\
You’ll be full of life and energy
... . bubbling over with fresh ac-
tivity ... if you get the daily
Golcryst habit! Golcryst keeps
you “in the pink.” At all
Chemists. 4d. . . . BtL . . . 1/3.
yotietytt
OOtOBN CHVSTAtS V* t/EMTH
ir'T*-u
yr.
m
4
c
to
New Guinea
& Papua
At your request we shall
be pleased to forward
Folder No. 99.
Five weeks' tour of the South Sea Islands
crowded with a succession of pic-
turesque vistas, novel and amusing
incidents and the delights of a sea
voyage under the best conditions.
Numerous ports, with their coral lagoons,
palm-fringed beaches, quaint villages
and colourful native life, offer a never-
ending source of interest.
There are no hotel expenses—you live
on the vessel throughout. Fares are free
of exchange.
BURNS, PHILP
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
CO. LTD.
- Telephone: 87901
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
More Flying Doctors
“Arunta”: When the new flying-doctor
centre is established at Alice Springs
(C.A.), there will be six flying doctors
—A.S., Broken Hill, Cloncurry, Wynd-
ham, Port Hedland and Kalgoorlie. The
Government has approved the new base,
and the Pioneer Women’s Memorial
Committee of S.A. has offered £5OOO to
help the job along.
There is room for somebody else to
come in with a good lump of cash,
since Alice Springs is likely to serve a
stretch of country extending into Queens-
land, S.A. and Westralia. Broken
Hill now serves
about 400,000 sq.
miles, the biggest
aerial medical dis-
trict in the Com-
monwealth, ex-
cept Cloncurry,
a pioneer area.
Flights of 500
miles are nothing
to the F.Ds. Re-
cently one from
Broken Hill
covered 1000
miles.
Costs are
moderate —-
£17,078 last year,
of which Kal-
goorlie spent
£BBl and Clon-
curry £6530.
There are still
districts which
could do with
aerial medical
services. Com-
monwealth and States would find it
little burden to increase their support
considerably, though it would be a pity
to see the management taken .out of the
hands of the efficient bodies which have
put the F.D. services on the map.
A flying doctor is particularly needed at
Thursday Island to reach the Gulf
pioneers. Aerodrome difficulties might
be got over by finding a flat spot on
Prince of Wales or on adjacent Cape
York.
“Pab D.”: Dr. Fenton will have his
job lightened now that Canberra has
approved of the appointment of another
aerial medico for the Territory, with the
new £25,000 hospital at Alice Springs
for base. A report that a Federal Minis-
ter had a fit while examining the hospital
is—as the “Cronk News” would say—
reliably denied. It is also denied as
reliably that the seizure happened when
the Minister, after inspecting the Alice
Springs gaol, which has special quarters
for white women and black women, was
informed that the hospital lacked a
maternity ward.
“J. Want”: If anybody should have a
good chance in what the southern press
perforce must call a “certain investment,”,
it should be one Charles Daly, of Bowen
Bridge, Brisbane. Collecting scrap metal,
he noticed a promising bit sticking out
of the mud of the Brisbane River bank.
As it was hollow, he took an iron bar
and gave it a good welt or two to help
it open, which it refused to do. Then
he heaved it into a cart with other scrap,
jolted over some of Brisbane’s worst
roads and threw it on the ground. At
this stage a Digger arrived—and did the
“Come ’ere, y' mong! D'yer Want t' start a stampede ?”
longest hop on record. All the finder
had been playing with was a 61b. aerial
bomb with charge and detonator appar-
ently still present. Brisbane is now won-
dering how it got to Toowong. It
couldn’t have floated up the river.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Brisbane is to have a new
Olympic swimming pool in Musgrave
Park, midway between the new Univer-
sity and the city. The pool will be
reasonably accessible to everybody when
a few more bridges have been built.
* * * *
“Mataranka”: Whatever may happen
to the rest of the N.T. the immediate
future of Darwin seems to be assured
with 2000 troops to be stationed there.
And despite the deadness of the beef and
pearling trades, this year’s income from
production will top the million-pound
mark —an increase of almost 30 p.c. over
last year. But Territory people still have
virtually no say in their own government.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Innisfail (N.Q.) is looking to
gold-production to augment its annual
millions. Malcolm Newman has just
looked over the Johnstone River lands,
and thinks the prospect might justify a
£200,000 investment in a dredge. The
soil is alluvial, and the estimate, subject
to testing, is that it might turn out £5OOO
worth of gold to the acre, the land after-
wards being returned to its original con-
dition for sugar-raising. It is easy to
talk about reconstituting washed land,
but on dredging areas in U.S.A. it has
not been found so practicable as it
sounds.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: Lord Mayor Jones is not
dismayed by the fact that most of Bris-
bane’s rates go in paying interest. He
is proposing to raise up to £2,000,000
more for concrete roads, “allowing pos-
terity to bear some of the cost and enjoy
the economies that will result.” His
Lordship told the council that the up-
keep would be “negligible.”
* * * *
“Zedo”: The latest field into which
Japanese traders have entered is that be-
tween the Japanese mandated islands and
the Gilberts. They recently had a 15-
knot steamer at Butaritari bent on get-
ting copra, for which they are outbid-
ding the Australian traders. A halt will
have to be called if there is to be any
trade for whites at all. Though restric-
tion of trading is bad, there should be
reciprocity. The mandated islands are
an exclusive preserve of Japanese ship-
ping.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: The Forgan Smiths
haven’t much use for the old stuff about
people being regarded as innocent until
they are proved guilty. The new Dairy
Produce Amendment Act provides that
the averment by a prosecutor or plaintiff
of a charge against the owner of any
dairy-produce place “shall be evidence
of the matter averred, and in the absence
of evidence in rebuttal beyond reason-
able doubt shall be conclusive evidence
of the facts so averred.” In other words,
the complainant need not go into the box
or call witnesses; the defendant will be
convicted if he doesn’t prove his inno-
cence to the hilt. Under the Mental
Hygiene Act, another brand-new statute,
any policeman who considers that any
person is “mentally sick” is empowered
to remove that person to a hospital or
“other suitable place” if he deems it
necessary in the public interest.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Cheers for “Dorret”
(B. 28/9/’3B), even if he does only speak
as a tourist, for drawing attention to Cen-
tralia’s Devil’s Marbles. Had they been
in the U.S.A. 'their pictures and descrip-
tions would be on millions of tourist-
attracting posters and dodgers all over
the world. Particularly the weird hemi-
sphere which, at any rate five years ago,
teetered so delicately on a knife-edge
that a push would set its 500 and more
tons see-sawing for 10ft. up and .down.
It is only a few miles off the regular
tourist track, and it would be worth
while to make it accessible by car. That
is, if it hasn’t been capsized by some
city-tourist in the meantime, one of the
kind which ruins abo. handprints on cave
walls by clumsy attempts at outlining
its own silly paws.
* *• * *
“Derrot”: It is high time Canberra
looked into the problem of Centralian
and North Australian railways. At pres-
ent they are well-nourished white
elephants gaining weight every year.
Completion of the north-south railway
was part of the Commonwealth’s con-
tract with S.A. when the Territory
changed hands, and the obligation
remains. Some South Australians never-
theless object to bridging the gap because
it would mean that N.T. trade now pass-
ing through Adelaide would be diverted.
Queensland would be another opponent.
When development of Centralia is
tackled in earnest, the Alice Springs line
would have a chance of paying its way.
The Darwin-Birdum stretch shows small
promise of making ends meet. An ex-
tension worth immediate consideration is
from Birdum about 140 miles south to
Newcastle Waters. Canberra, however,
is considering development from east and
west.
* * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Brisbane is proud of
its native son, Bennett, who flew the
top half of the composite Mercury non-
stop from Dundee to the Orange River,
6045 miles, in 42 hours. Ice, thunder-
storms and head winds robbed him of
the record for longest non-stop flight, but
gained that for longest non-stop for sea-
planes by the comfortable margin of 731
miles. Mercury’s average speed was 144
m.p.h. Captain Bennett has since been
named Senior Master, sharing the highest
Imperial Airways rank with four other
pilots..
* * * *
“Terrod”: A Darwin policeman has
completed an “exhaustive investigation.”
The swag was lifted two months ago
from Vestey’s meaworks, and the con-
stable visited buffalo-shooters’ camps in
the Alligator and Mary river districts,
poked into a spot of wild country, and
covered 1200 miles in all. In the end,
he unearthed the haul within a few miles
of Darwin. It consisted of 2240 service-
rifle bullets.


Tfi#
EMPIRES MILLIONS
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
6AM’s new power of 1000
watts carries it into tlie
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
W’estern Australia.
f
Doctors say that it your Hormone Glands anu
nerves function well you will be vigorous ano
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. \\ ill defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure.remeo;
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or writ-
direct for particulars of this MODERN
TREATMENT.
T. JONES £ CO.
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
"RADIO DIGEST”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but “RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most important radio
publications.
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
from the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
All-gas Radio Receivers.
The 1938 Radiolympia, just concluded
in London, featured a power supply unit
for radio receivers using the ordinary
household gas supply. The idea ot using
gas for radio is not new. The writer well
remembers an advertisement in QST
about 1924 for a detector valve—the
usual vacuum in glass—with a small
crucible containing a mineral salt. The
crucible was heated by a fine jet of gas,
and the valve was claimed to be a very
sensitive detector.
The indirectly-heated valve of to-day
relies for its operation upon the heating
of the cathode from a heater which is
fed with alternating current at one of
several voltages. In theory it would be
possible to use the valve, with the same
characteristics, with a gas-jet as heater,
but the practical application would be
somewhat inconvenient. The new unit
shown at Radiolympia tackles the prob-
lem in a different manner. Details are
supplied by T. S. Moore, of the New-
stead gasworks, Brisbane.
The unit is produced by the Milnes
Electrical Engineering Co., of Bingley,
Yorkshire. A previous attempt, described
as the “Thermo-Charger,” was stated to
be a perfected version of the thermopile,
which scientists have been striving to
make a commercial possibility for many
years. It produced sufficient current to
charge any low-tension accumulator by
the direct action of a minute gas jet on
the thermo-couples. It could charge two-
volt cells at from two to three amperes.
Carrying the work further, batteries have
been eliminated altogether, and the all-
gas-powered radio receiver is an accom-
plished fact.
The makers guarantee a working life
of 5000 hours for the unit, which means
about five years of normal use. The
metal junctions are heated by conduction
from a centre metal piece, the junctions
A view of the new gas-power unit for
radio receivers, as shown at Radiolympia
in London. Measurements are 12 by
6 by 8 inches.
being covered with protective sleeves. The
gas jets are carefully regulated, and the
gas rate is controlled by an incorporated
governor. A thermal cut-out is included
to prevent “feeding-back’ 4 if the gas
supply should be turned off when the
unit is being used to charge an accumu-
lator.
These figures relative to the perform-
ance of the unit are of considerable
interest. It is made in two sizes—four
and eight watts. The gas consumption is
one cub. ft. of gas per hour per watt
output. Thus, with the four-watt model,
one may have radio reception for an
hour at the cost of four cub. feet of gas.
One-third of the thermo-couples supply
low-tension current; the remaining two-
thirds supply current to a vibrator-
converter which steps up the voltage to
150 at 15 to 20 milliamperes for plate
voltage supply. The current, which is
converted to A.C. for transforming pur-
poses in the converter, is rectified again
by another vibrator at 180 deg. to the
original. The current from the vibrator
converter is perfectly filtered, as with the
usual vibrator power unit for “battery-
less” sets, so that there is complete
absence of hash or noise of any kind.
An interesting possibility of this gas
unit should be its application to the
rock gas supply now used in many coun-
try districts in Australia.
D.B.K.
What's What in Radio.
Since Austria became part of the
German republic all broadcasting stations
have been taken over. Power of exist-
ing short-wave transmitters is to be in-
creased to 50 kilowatts ip the near future,
and two new stations of equal power are
to be constructed. The Vienna short-
wave network will consist of OER2,
49.41 metres; OER3, 25.42 metres;
OER4, 31.35 metres; and OERS, 19.75
metres.
* * * *
Further frequencies have been allotted
to the new 50-kilowatt transmitters which
the German short-wave system is adding
to its already extensive network. The
additional stations and their respective
channels are: DJK, 13.86 m., 12kw. ;
DJJ, 13.91 m., 12kw. ; DJH, 16.81 m.,
50kw. ; DJG, 16.84 m., 50kw. ; DJZ,
25.42 m., 50kw.; DJF, 25.54 m., 50kw.;
DJX, 31.01 m., 50kw.; DJW, 31.09 m.,
50kw. ; DJI, 41.15 m., 50kw. ; and DJY,
49.41 m., 50kw.
♦ * * *
Loudspeaking equipment was recently
tested at Narrabeen (N.S.W.) to deter-
mine its value for lifesaving and crowd-
control. A.W.A. engineers made the
tests, and it was found that a new type
of amplifier could be heard li miles at
sea in the face of a stiff breeze. Further
tests will be made to determine how
quickly the water can be cleared, and at
what range swimming and rowing parties
can hear instructions from the beach.
* * * *
A.W.A. is building a new broadcast-
ing transmitter for the 3TR station at
Sale, Victoria. Power will be 1000 watts,
which is equal to that of the most power-
ful commercial broadcasters in Sydney
or Melbourne. Modulation system will
be Class B, and valves throughout will
be of Radiotron make.
* * * *
The A.W.A.-designed graph-recording
echometer on the Warreen has been
doing good work recently. It was used to
make graphs of the seabed off King
Island, Bass Strait, where a fault de-
veloped in the submarine telegraph-tele-
phone cables between Tasmania and the
mainland, and has been found useful in
locating shoals of fish. Where fish are
in large quantities in schools the graph
gives two indications of depth.
* * * *
Australian radio license figures for
September show a total of 1,088,624. Ex-
perimenters now number 1915.
* * * *
A development of the television re-
ceiver seen at Radiolympia, London, is
a hand-set receiver something like an
overgrown telephone hand-set. Held in
the hands, the earpiece is used in the
usual manner, and by looking down into
the place where the microphone normally
fits a miniature television screen shows
the picture. It can be used in conjunc-
tion with a standard television receiver
as an extension to the cathode-ray tube.
Amateur Chatter.
The terrible “fists” accompanying some
of the second district three-letter calls
make one wonder how the Morse exami-
nation was cleared. There are new
stations making heroic efforts to stagger
through the probationary C.W. period,
but spacing of Morse characters is often
so bewildering as to be hopeless copy.
Trouble is a tendency to clip dashes too
short. New amateurs are not the only
offenders.
The 28mc. band has plenty to offer at
the moment. Americans are seething on
the band during the early morning. Most
of the American ’phones on 28mc. are at
R 8 levels, and infinitely preferable to the
burble and din on 14mc. between
14,150 kc. and 14,250 kc. Much unusual
The automatic Morse-sender used at VK2NO for DX tests on 56mc.
telegraphy. Basis of construction is an. old fan motor and a double
reduction worm drive. Morse characters are formed by interleaving
copper foil in slots cut into the edge of the plywood disk, the contact aim
travelling over the top surface.
DX should again prevail on 28mc.
during the next three months. At higher
frequencies still, there is much of interest
to be gleaned from the nine-metre ultra-
short-wave broadcasting and police
stations. Some of the American u.-s.-w.
broadcasters suffer from a peculiar form
of interference in the way of a hetero-
dyne which undoubtedly originates in
some manner at the transmitting end.
What would be an understandable signal
is thus wrecked. Between 8 a.m. and
10 a.m. Sydney time, American and
Canadian police stations have been heard
very strongly around nine metres, and
on the morning of 25 /9 / ’3B police
stations W6XBF, Piedmont, California,
W4XAM, Savannah, Georgia, and
W4XK, Durham, North Carolina, were
at times RB-9. The early morning in
Eastern Australia corresponds to the
busy periods for police stations in
U.S.A., the time extending from after-
noon to late evening across the American
Continent. Several unknown stations
have been heard at intervals between
nine metres and 10 metres with very
strong telephony, and speaking a
language which may be Japanese. The
nature of the transmissions appeared to
indicate that they originated from air-
craft in flight.
A new amateur-band superhet. under
test at VK2NO ceased functioning sud-
denly after working for an hour or so.
Then the 80 rectifier gave up the ghost
in a fireworks display and deposited the
filaments at the bottom of the glass.
After a lengthy process of elimination
the cause was traced to a faulty I.F.
transformer. The design includes a small
coupling or link coil between primary
and secondary, which are wound on iron
cores. The link was wound underneath
the primary with no other insulation than
the silk covering, and 250 volts eventu-
ally found the weak spot. It was noticed,
too, during rewinding that the iron cores
are supplied with trolitul winding formers
and supporting screws. It seems ridicu-
lous to anchor litz wire directly to the
iron core with a spot of shellac. Care-
ful insulation of the windings is neces-
sary for high efficiency with this type
of core.
Transferring to Perth is Elton Grey,
recently VK4LX, of Brisbane. Soon he
should have a new VK6 call on the DX
and 56mc. bands.
Visiting Sydney is Westralia’s “father
of wireless,” Wally Coxon, of VK6AG.
This old hand, not heard so much on
amateur bands in these days, is the tech-
nical expert in Westralia for the A.M.S.
(Flying Doctor Services). He has come
east on this business.
Another old hand in Sydney —to take
on the marriage bonds —is Jim Perooz,
VK2PE, from “back o’ Bourke.”
During 7mc. conversations dealing
with 56mc. working, some interesting in-
formation came from VK2KR. of Woy
Woy (N.S.W.). Cecil (Dinar) Hardman,
of this station, proposes to conduct
mobile tests at week-ends on 56mc. by
taking a station out to sea in conjunction
with VK2EQ. It is hoped, too, to link
up with Sydney stations. It is an interr-
ing phase of radio experimentation, and
it is surprising that more five-metre work
of the kind hasn’t been done in Sydney.
Recently one boat cruised along the
South Coast and endeavored to raise
points on 7mc.
In the Newcastle, N.S.W. district,
Gordon Kempton, of VK2CI, is making
plans to put Newcastle back on the 56mc.
map. The transmitter used for the DX
frequencies is already capable of hand-
ling a fair amount of R.F., and as soon
as a receiver can be tackled tests will
be arranged with Sydney stations.
VK2VU, of Singleton (N.S.W.), also
plans a comeback to the band. It is
learned that a year or so ago no trouble
was experienced in hearing 56mc. trans-
missions from VK2VU at Lochinvar,
some 20 miles distant. Lack of co-opera-
tion may disappoint the countryman;
unless there is a near-by station to sus-
tain interest by maintaining a communi-
cation channel for experiments, the out-
look can be very dull. There are many
country towns very favorably placed for
communication on 56mc. between experi-
mental stations, where a 100 p.c. circuit
could be maintained entirely free from
static or interference of any kind.
A station doing good work in experi-
menting with modern equipment is
VK2IQ, Ross Treharne, of Burwood
(N.S.W.). He wasted no time with anti-
quated gear, but launched into the five-
metre band with crystal control and a


LimericK
Competitions
For Each of These Competitions £5O in Prize-money
Sixth Competition:—
£5O PRIZES
First Prize . £4O
Ten Other Prizes £1
Closing Date November 11
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space
provided for the purpose, cut out the whole
coupon, and post to reach
"Limericks No. 6”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney ,
not later than November 11.
Results of this Sixth Limerick Competition
will be announced in “The Bulletin ’ of
November 16.
Any competitor may send in as many
entries as he or she wishes for this or succeed-
ing competitions, but each entry must be filled
in on a Limerick Coupon.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper
Co. Pty., Ltd., is eligible to compete. Other-
wise these competitions are open to all, free
of any entrance charge.
This announcement will be repeated in
“The Bulletin’’ of November 2, and coupons
may be filled in from any issue.
SIXTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME !
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
i l
A speedhog when trying to show
What a demon his car Was to go
Ran it far up a gum,
And remarked, looking glum, !i
I I
Results, and New Competitions
Results of the Fifth Limerick Competition,
which closes on October 28, will be
announced in next week’s “Bulletin
(November 2).
Also in the November 2 issue the Seventh
of this series of Competitions will be
announced. The same prize-money (£5O)
will be offered, but the conditions will be
altered to allow more competitors to share in
the awards.
superhet. The final uses two 800’s, and
various aerial arrays are being tested.
At present a Bruce is being prepared.
A surprise during the evening of
16/10/’3B was the unexpected arrival of
VK2VN on the band. The signal from
this station is clean-cut and very strong,
but, owing to grid modulation on a
doubler stage, speech is distorted. The
present modulation scheme is but tem-
porary.
VK2NO.
W.I.A., N.S.W. Division.
Owing to the resignation of D. Reed
(VK2DR) from the secretary’s position,
there has been a reshuffle of the insti-
tute’s office-bearers. They are now:
President, F. M. Goyen (VK2UX);
vice-presidents, F. Carruthers (VK2PF)
and R. Priddle (VK2RA); secretary, W.
G. Ryan (VK2TI); treasurer, H. Ackling
(VK2PX); technical officer, M. Lusby
(VK2WN). V. Bennett (VK2VA) has
been elected to the vacant position, but
has not yet been allotted office.
The W.I.A. is the recognised organisa-
tion of the amateur radio experimenter,
and active membership of the institute
is the best service the Australian licensed
experimenter can do himself. Intending
members should write to the hon. sec.,
W.1.A., N.S.W. Division, 21 Tunstall-
avenue, Kingsford, N.S.W.
Radiotips.
“D.8.K.”: Glass tubing may also be
used for feeder spreaders (B. 21/9/’3B).
Small lead castings are made in cylin-
drical form with a notch at one end.
The cylinders ,are cemented into the
glass tubing, one at each end, with the
notches outward. The feeder wires are
placed in the notches, and pressure with
a pair of pliers will close the lead
securely around the wires and clamp
them in place.
* * * *
“R.H.A.’’: Amateur builders of receiv-
ing sets should remember that most
modern valves, whether metal or glass,
may be mounted in any convenient posi-
tion without detriment to their perform-
ance. Although manufacturers retain
the vertical positioning of valves for
reasons of symmetry and accessibility,
home constructors may disregard these
points and strive for efficiency and short
leads. Horizontal mounting of r.f. am-
plifiers, for example, allows the adoption
of compact and efficient layout with grid
and plate leads at a minimum length.
On u.h.f. receivers this should prove
highly satisfactory. As a general rule
vertical mounting (with base down)
should be adhered to for all battery types
and for all directly-heated valves. The
old varieties of 27, 24A, 35, 36, etc.,
should be mounted vertically ; the same
types in the new construction (with dome
bulb and top mica) may be mounted in
any position. All metal types (including
rectifiers) may be mounted in any posi-
tion.
* * * *
“Brassex”: It’s often a difficult job
replacing the rope halyard on an aerial-
mast pulley. Illustrated is a method of
fixing the pulley to the mast so as to
obviate the difficulty. The pulley is fitted
into a slot at the top of the mast just
large enough to take it without leaving
any space on either side. Two iron strips
are then fitted to the top of the mast in
the manner shown. If need arise, a new
rope can be thrown over the mast and be-
tween the iron struts.
* * * *
ir “R.H.A.”: It is possible to cut a
socket hole in thin aluminium though
no cutter is handy by using a fretsaw.
The hole should be marked out and a
small hole drilled to start the fretsaw,
which, if lubricated with turps, will make
quite a good job. The finished hole may
be smoothed off with a few strokes of a
half-round file.
Trade Notes.
The publishers of “Radio,” U.S.A., an-
nounce that the fifth (1939) edition of
the “Radio” Handbook will be ready in
October. Copies should be available in
Australia around Christmas.
Switching-off Feedback.
Although negative feedback is desir-
able for local station reception with
pentode or beam tetrode power valves,
it necessarily reduces the overall gain
of the receiver. In certain circumstances
it may be an advantage to arrange a
Suitable arrangement for switching off
negative feedback for increased receiver
gain for short-wave and distant reception.
switch so as to cut out the feedback
for short-wave or distant reception. It
can be done by a switch to short-circuit
the lower section of the voltage divider
across the load. In no circumstances will
the plate circuit of the preceding valve
become open-circuited.
V.C.
Mobile Unit of the B.B.C.
Television Service
The aerial used for sending signals
from the broadcasting point to the trans-
Mitter at Alexandra Palace for re-radia-
tion is mounted on an extending ladder
very like a fire escape, in order that the
height necessary for the aerial may be
obtained. In this photograph of the unit
in operation at the Crystal Palace,
London, the ladder is seen extended to
its full height of 80ft., the transmitting
van being on the right.
Dead in Sydney the other day William
Blogg, managing director of Wm. Blogg
and Co. He was well known to the Aus-
tralian radio industry in the earlier days
of broadcasting, forming in 1926, on be-
half of the parent co., Amplion (Aust.),
Ltd. Previous to this he had been sales
manager of the old Sterling Telephone
Co. in England, subsequently joining
Graham Amplion, Ltd., manufacturers
of naval loudspeaking telephones. In
1930 he severed his connection with the
Amplion organisation to form his own
co. in Sydney for the marketing of tele-
phones and associated apparatus. The
business will be carried on by Miss Irene
Blogg, who has been actively associated
with her father for many years.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
Where can back numbers of ‘‘Radio News”
( U.S.A .) containing articles on radio mathe-
matics by J. E. Smith be obtained? —726.
Try writing to the publishers. A textbook
showing the application of mathematics to radio
could be obtained from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Could the noise-silencer described in
B. 5 /10/ ’3B be used with the Regenerative
Super-Three described in the issue of 7/9 / ’3B ?
(2) If so, please give me some idea of the cir-
cuit to employ. —727.
(1) and (2) Not without considerable re-
designing, since the silencer brings about a drop
in audio amplification. This is counterbalanced
in the 6JBG superhet because the second de-
tector valve is a twin-triode in which the second
triode portion is used as an audio driver stage.
Thus there is more than enough audio gain
available from the start, and the drop introduced
by the noise-silencer system brings the gain
to a normal level.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
l!
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
rates per day.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
YOUNG STOCK.
“Tri-cal”: Of course I pay attention to
my young stock. It’s my investment for
future production, isn’t it? There’s no
need to tell me about a balanced ration,
I’m giving my growing stock Tri-cal-os
Bone Flour, and that is balancing the
mineral ration for them. They’ve got
strong bones and teeth, suppleness and
vitality, and generally good all-round
condition. In fact, I’d back mine against
yours without seeing them —what are
you using? By the way, Tri-cal-os is the
most economical mineral supplement I
know of. I wrote to Davis Gelatine,
Sydney, for information.
Old Farmer.
3
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian . Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Lamb-marking Hints.
“Ghanam”: If lambs are strong, it will
not hurt to put them through the mark-
ing when only a few days old, but it is
better to strike a safe average—say, from
15 to 21 days in still, mild weather, start-
ing when the sun is well up in colder
districts and finishing early.
Special yards built of hurdles on clean
ground make the best site. No piece of
ground should be used two years running.
A clean marking-board nailed to the top
of the rail is advisable. It can be easily
scrubbed —have washing-soda and hot
water handy every time. Clean clothes
count, too. It’s no good going to all sorts
of trouble with gear and then holding
the animal against dirty clothes.
Speed isn’t always admirable. It is
better to waste a little time than to waste
a good lamb. Common faults due to
speed include the heavy dumping down
and bruising of the animal and additional
pain caused by yanking the hind legs too
far apart; also, heaving the unfortunate
youngster on to the ground as if it were
a sack after the job is done.
Marking knives should be all metal —
it makes sterilisation easier. That should
be done by soaking in methylated spirit
or some fairly strong disinfectant. Other
instruments should be well boiled for a
quarter of an hour. When instruments
are not in use, keep them in lysol—
one tablespoonful to one pint of water.
Remember, also, that hands need careful
attention. Dipping them in the creek is
of little use.
Blowflies and Color.
“Murrawong”: Dr. G. Watt, of Mary-
vale (N.S.W.), has had interesting results
from experiments in repelling blowflies
by color. He came to the conclusion
that blue —which is now used in hospitals
to repel the housefly—is the color they
like least.
Chief consideration was to find a
medium which would not stain the fleece
beyond the scouring operation and yet
would not be washed out by the first
shower of rain ; it had also to be in a
form that would be easy of application.
The mixture recommended by Dr.
Watt should be sprayed or jetted on the
crutch area of the sheep or wherever
else required. The alternative method,
which would be suitable only for small
flocks, is to moisten the area to be treated
with a solution of 2oz. boroglyceride in
one gallon of rainwater, then to rub a
special blue raddle into the wool.
Sheep should be treated when the wool
is short, preferably within a few weeks
of shearing or crutching. Cost is about
Id. per sheep. The treatment is preven-
tive only, and will not kill maggots or
eggs.
Fly strike was not nearly so severe as
usual in N.S.W. last year, so that the
treatment has yet to be tested during a
fierce strike. The boroglyceride used as
the fixing solution may also have useful
qualities. The best fly dressing yet dis-
covered is glycerine diborate, but cost
rules it out.
It is worth investigating whether blue
is actually the color most disliked by
blowflies. Some time ago C.S. and I.R.
experiments showed that blue was only
third on the list of four colors tested. In
order of repellency, green came first, with
pink next, blue third and yellow last.
Infectious Pneumonia in Sheep.
“Bungaree”: Sheep reported dying in
N. S. Wales have shown mystifying
symptoms —affected animals stand apart
from the mob with drooping ears, respira-
tion is hurried, and death occurs within
24 hours of the animals appearing sick.
The disease has been diagnosed as in-
fectious pneumonia.
There is no cure for the complaint, and
the only treatment that can be recom-
mended is the segregation of infected
animals as soon as they become sick.
All carcasses should be burned as soon
as possible.
Infectious pneumonia should not be
confused with the pneumonia caused by
eating crownbcard. It is caused from
an organism (Friedlander’s bacillus). A
post-mortem will show evidence of acute
pneumonia of the lobes of the lungs.
These appear quite hard and solid, and
a piece of this part of the lung will
sink in water. Small red spots about the
size of a pin’s head will also be noted on
the heart muscle.
The complaint has never been noted
before to any extent in N.S.W., and care
“Mind you bring her back in time for milkin' !”
should be taken to keep it from
spreading.
Watch for Quality.
“Rom Ney”: When buying sheep in
saleyards be careful of the “bargain
line.”
If the buyer knows the treatment to
give the sheep to improve them in value,
then any he might buy should be cheap.
If they can be “brought on” to show a
bigger margin of profit than could good
stock under the same conditions, then the
poor sheep make the better buy.
Quality, though it can do without con-
dition, is a very great help when putting
on condition. It is apparent in confor-
mation, size and the look and feel of the
wool. The head is the best guide in
estimating value. If big for the breed it
indicates plenty of sound bone ; large,
open nostrils mean good lungs in a
spacious chest between well-sprung ribs.
Chest must be deep to hold lungs served
by wide, flaring nostrils. Good width
between the eyes means vitality ; width
under the jaws means the animal can
feed and breathe freely. Prominent eyes
mean prepotency. If they are alert, too,
the sheep will be a good doer.
Density of fleece means weight, and
the further the wool grows on the face
of the sheep the greater can the den-
sity be reckoned.
Eyes, ears and nostrils tell whether the
sheep is. well or sick. Study these
features of sick and well, animals, and
use your knowledge at the saleyards.
No need to clamber into the pen to
mouth them for age. . An old sheep
always has a deeper jaw and heavier
underlip than a young,one. „
If there’s a line with good heads, even
though they are poor, then buy. Let the
other bloke look for condition—keep
your eye on quality.
Inoculation and Entero-toxsemia.
“Corriedale”: “Bungaree” is mixing
things (B. 12/10//38):. My objection to
single-shot vaccines was ; that they cause
unsightly blemishes on lambs.
Inoculation after losses have started
is wrong in most cases. The first need
is to stop further deaths, and this can be
done only by changing the feed. Even
after vaccination, this is still necessary,
and it is not often that conditions for
entero-toxsemia will continue on a prop-
erty for more than three weeks at a time.
Vaccination in these circumstances
is waste, and, although lambs lose condi-
tion by being moved from good pasture,
they live. '.
If losses are expected, lambs should be
vaccinated beforehand—rthe first dose a
fortnight from birth: The dams should
have been inoculated a month previ-
ously.
By this method, little check for lambs
on any feed is likely, as they will not
have to be moved off their rich pasture
owing to the protection given by vaccina-
tion. And if double-injection vaccines
are used, blemishes will be slight.
Bacon Export Chances.
“Pappamosca”: Bacon export offers a
much stronger chance of expansion in
Australian trade than does the fat-lamb
business. Some of the grain districts
would be much better employed in rais-
ing Dennis than in raising lambs.
The Australian Meat Council points
out that the U.K. is guaranteeing its pig-
raisers a home price for three years —945.
9d. per cwt. in the first year and 91s. 9d.
in the third. It should mean that Aus-
tralian exporters will realise s*d. to 6d.
per pound at works in the Common-
wealth. Dominion bacon usually sells in
London at about 10s. per cwt. less than
British of the same standard.
Britain imports nearly 70 per cent, of
her* bacon, or about 350,000 tons, plus
about 30,000 tons of pork. Australia
can produce a baconer rpore profitably
than a pork carcass. So far, Australian
exporting has not been up to the mark.
Our share of the trade for the year ended
June, 1937, was only 227,000 pork and
bacon carcasses, perhaps 12,500 tons all
told.
The job must be taken on properly.
Baconers should weigh from 1351 b. to
1541 b., fine-boned and with a well-filled
but lean meat ham, the space between the
hind legs being “U” shaped rather than
“V” shaped. The belly should be thick
and have a high proportion of lean, and
the shoulder should be fine in propor-
tion to the more expensive parts of the
animal.
Size of carcass must conform to very
exact measurements ; so must loin fat,
which is taken at the last rib. Length,
from where the breastbone joins the first
rib to the aitch bone, should in a 1351 b.
baconer be just under 32 inches, with
just under four-fifths of an inch of fat
over the loin. The 1541 b. length is 33
inches, with loin-fat measurement just
over four-fifths of an inch thick.
Housing Dennis.
“Bundalinga”: Build pig pens where
they will get the full benefit of sunlight,
which is a deadly germ-killer. Build on
rising ground for good drainage, but
keep away from tops of hills, where the
pigs will be exposed to wind. Have the
roof high enough to make cleaning out
easy.
Smooth walls will not harbor para-
sites —don’t use split bush timber. To


82826
. f/-
A
\
IMPORTED ZEBU LOOKS VERY SMART.
Especially when it is moulded on an extended square-toed last.
Apart from looks it has exceptional wearing qualities, being strong and tough.
Made with punched full golosh and full wide welt, and stocked in full and
half sizes. Brown, Price 37/6
Write for a Catalogue.
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Telegraphic Address: "ABBEY BOOTS," SYDNEY.
THE WONDER BOARD OF A
1000 USES
11l 111
111 111
111 111
111 111
It costs no more to build
the walls and rooi oi a poultry shed,
or any other outhouse with Masonite
than it does to use less satisfactory
materials. The cost per year of such
a house is less because it costs no
more in the first place, costs less for
upkeep and gives many more years
of service.
Masonite—all-wood grainless/ white-
ant-proof boards of amazing dura-
bility—are now available in Aus-
tralia in l", 3/16", and 5/16" thick-
nesses and a wide range of sizes.
CANE-ITE
Ensure a CONSTANT temperature
for your Poultry house by insulating
it with CANE-ITE, the economical,
vermin-proof ALL-CANE insulation.
Samples and booklet on request.
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD • PRESDWOOD • QUARTRBOARD • TEMPRTILE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth
M. 15.8
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
3®*
IMir fe
tk
sc
Cl
y■
if
s
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
Good Cooking
Depends on Your
Stove ...
Every housewife will agree . that
the stove she uses plays a big
part in her cooking. That's why
it is all important to make sure
that the next stove you buy is a
good one. • How ? That's easy...
get it from Danks.
John Danks and Son carry a full
“range of types and sizes to suit
every need and every purse, in-
cluding the famous 1.X.L., from
£5/15/-; the Andrews and the
Lux.
o
FUEL STOVES
for every home and purpose
There is a comprehensive
range, too, of gas and
electric stoves for you to
select from in many types
and sizes, and in various
colors to match any decora-
tive scheme.
Also
GRATES
COPPERS &
FRAMES
CLOTHES
BOILERS, &c.
Everything for the Home & Farm
“Billabong" Pumps & Mills, te Kerotin 99 Sprays,
4< Coo-ce” Mills, Tools & Garden Implements,
Paints & Varnishes, Wallpapers, Bath Heaters,
Electric Appliances, Piping, Galvanised Iron &c.
S^DANKS^
'ilillEiilEj9BjSßlillE!S3El3BliV
391 - 403 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE. M 2381
prevent draughts, make the walls tight
against wind. Concrete makes the best
floor, but is cold and hard, so make a
sleeping platform of hardwood, well
joined, and raised above ground level,
on which to spread bedding. If it is
light, the platform can be removed easily
for cleaning.
Straw or bracken fern makes good
bedding. Replace it often and use the
soiled material for manure on pastures
or on cultivation land, where it will help
to build up the organic content.
Westralian Sub. Clover.
“J.W.”: Sub. clover was first noticed
in W.A. on P. D. Forrest’s place at Dwal-
ganup late in last century. It was soon
discovered that the Dwalganup strain was
more suited to light soils than the S.
Australian. Also, it suited intermediate
rainfall belts. It has now spread as far
north as Geraldton, and hundreds of
tons of officially-certified W.A. seed are
shipped to other States.
S.c., in W.A., is playing a huge part
in pasture expansion. Land which
seemed incapable of improvement is
rapidly going under pasture of which s.c.
is a main base. There has been an in-
crease from 18,000 acres of sown pasture
15 years ago to nearly 800,000 this year.
In a decade, dairy cows have doubled
in number, and butter production has
quadrupled the output is near
13,000,0001 b. per annum. Sheep have de-
clined for the whole State by a couple of
millions because of bad seasons, but
according to figures collected by Com-
monwealth Fertilisers sheep population
in clover districts has increased by a mil-
lion, and fat-lamb exports in the period
have jumped from 6000 to 270,000 p.a.
The results are all the more striking
since they have often been obtained in
districts where it is not possible or highly
difficult to establish pasture grasses
through lack of humus, nitrogen and
phosphates. Yet s.c. is laid down with
little trouble when the rainfall is above
16 inches.
In places it is growing on gravel and
among stones so thick that they are “like
a field of dug onions,” as well as on plain
land which can be had from Is. to 3s.
per acre.
One of the reasons for failure both in
the West and in other parts of Australia
is that would-be growers don’t appreciate
that new ground must first be inoculated
with bacteria. An ounce of culture will
inoculate 151 b. of seed; costs work out
at about Is. 6d. for five acres.
Dwalganup is still in the hands of
P. D. Forrest, nephew of “John”
and “Alec.” It lies in the extreme
south-west of the State, with a 30in.
rainfall. Out of 3780 acres Forrest
has 2700 under s.c., and has put
down another 500 acres for this year.
He carried 5000 sheep last year. And 75
tons of s.c. seed brought £7500 in
revenue. Land not far away, similar in
character, which Forrest estimates could
be brought under clover for 555. per
acre, is being sold for £1 per acre.
One neighbor who paid less than £1
per acre in 1927 is now carrying a cow to
three acres. And J 3 miles away is a
property of 800 acres which six years
ago was carrying a sheep to four acres
and which now handles 1000 head regu-
larly, including over 700 breeding ewes.
Wealth on the Belubula.
“C.H.S.”: Canowindra (N.S.W.) is the
centre of one of the richest little lucerne
districts in the State.
For 20 miles along the flats of the
Belubula River lucerne flourishes.
During dry spells in other districts Cano-
windra sends baled lucerne north, west
and south. Estimated value of lucerne
sent from Canowindra in the past year is
close to £lOO,OOO.
In addition to very high soil quality,
these Belubula flats have drainage water
beneath them at the ideal depth for
lucerne, lift, to 14ft. About 70 years
ago T. I. Finn (he’s still alive) sowed the
first lucerne on the flat close to the vil-
lage. To-day that flat could not be
bought for £lOO an acre.
Earlier the flats grew maize. Old-time
settlers opposed the breaking up of the land
for lucerne, believing that it would ruin
maize-growing and spoil natural pasture.
It did both, but it replaced them with
something far more valuable. The ’O2
drought gave Canowindra its first idea of
what the Belubula flats were worth.
Unlike the lucerne areas of the ad-
jacent Lachlan, and at Mudgee and on
the Hunter, the Belubula flats don’t have
to be irrigated. Good paddocks will give
a cut every four or five weeks, averaging
25cwt. to 30cwt. an acre. Usually about
seven cuts a year are taken off. Belubula
soldier settlement —small blocks of up to
200 acres —is one of the few successful
settlements of its kind in Australia.
A Useful Farm Pump Scheme.
“G.F.Y.”: Our supplementary water
comes from a river 250 ft. (vertical) below
the milking sheds. There’s a 2-h.p. oil
engine to do the milkihg, and it is used
also to pull water up the hill. A 4001't.
length of 1-Jin. piping was fixed to posts
down the hillside and a 2in. windmill-
type pump screwed on the end, with the
suction pipe going on another 20ft. into
the river.
For the first 100 ft. the line is hori-
zontal ; then it sweeps downward into
the valley. The rod of lin. piping in-
side the delivery pipe is actuated by a
crank and gear in the engine-room—7in.
stroke, 30 r.p.m., bolted to the floor and
driven by pulleys and belting. By putting


TTie'fy'allefon.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
my LAN Z worked "
on the smell of an
oil iraq f
£
c i
*o#
"My new Model *P'
Lanz, working nine hours
a day over the fallow, did 400 acres in
six days at a total cost of £3/17/4 for
fuel and oil landed on the farm, which
is less than 2.4 d. per acrel
"This new tractor replaces the HRS
Model Lanz which I purchased nine years
ago. I was then using horses and kero-
sene tractor, but could see no reason for
buying kerosene at the then price of 1/2
per gallon when the Lanz would work
better on fuel at only per gallon.
"After nine years' work I sold my old
Lanz for £225, which proves that a Lanz
works cheaper, lasts longer, and has a
higher resale value than any other
machine."
(Signed) E.L. (Name on application.)
Write for booklet, “How Angus Saved £l5O
on His Tractor Costs.” It gives some
amazing but true figures.
Farmers are Saving up to
£l5O a Year on Fuel and Oil
That's why Lanz owners don't worry over low
wheat prices.
Lanz economy, freedom from repair costs,
speed and reliability are keeping their farming
costs down to a profitable level!
dsf
BULLDOG
Oil
New South Wales:
Tractors & Machinery
Pty. J.td.,
131-133 Palmer Street,
Sydney
Victoria 4 S. Riverina:
Geo. W. Kelly & Lewis
Pty. Ltd.,
304-308 Spencer Street,
Melbourne
DISTRIBUTORS:—
South Australia:
Waymouth Motor Com-
pany Limited
42 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide
Queensland:
General Farm Machinery
Ltd.,
134 Albert Street.
Brisbane
Western Australia:
Kelly & Lewis (W.A.)
Pty. Ltd.,
William and Forbes Sts.,
Perth
BLACKSTONE
DIESEL ENGINES
• A BLACKSTONE for Every Purpose.
Models from 3 h.p. upwards.
• TOTALLY ENCLOSED. Fully pro-
tected from dust, etc.
• LISTARD (Van de Horst Patent) Cylinder
liners give 400% longer life.
• Pressure Lubricated throughout.
N.S.W.:
Gibson, Battle & Coy.
Pty., Ltd., 535 Kent
Street, Sydney.
Q' LAND:
Norman Bell & Co.
Pty. Ltd., 403 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane.
W. AUST.:
Blackman & Law, 843
Hay Street, Perth.
VICTORIA:
Mitchell & Coy. Pty.,
Ltd., West Footscray,
Melbourne.
S. AUST.:
Unbehaun & Johnstone,
Ltd., 58 Gawler Place,
Adelaide.
N.Z.:
A. R. Christian, Ltd.,
45 Tory St., Wellington.
BLAGKSTONE & CO. LTD., STAMFORD, ENG.
GIVES TO UNSEWERED AREAS
one of the Amenities of City Life.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No Stench, Flies or Germs.
-
No water supply
required. Can be
installed where
septic tank is not
practicable. The
most widely used
system in A’asia.
In Homes, Hotels,
Schools, Theatres,
etc. Shell Oil Co.
60 repeat orders.
Bank of N.S.AV.
15. Any handyman
can install them.
Automatic. No emptying. Write for pamphlet.
Price, £l5/10/- Sydney. Agents all States.
THE HYGEIA DISSOL VENATOR,
Hygeia Sanitary Company Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
on the belt during milking we oan de-
liver 200 gallons per hour for 2d. It’s
been in use for 10 years without a hitch,
Connect the rod with brass couplings
and introduce Bin. lengths of 7-16 in.
round iron (a tight fit) inside and riveted
each side of couplings. This needs care
in boring, marking and assembling.
If the dam or creek is not more than
20ft below the engine-room, it is safe
to run the suction pipe only from the
pump in or against the room, provided
the line falls all the way. (No chance
for air-lock) It may be half a mile long
if the pipes are carefully laid and a good
suction valve is on the end so that the
line will keep full of water between
pumpings. In long lengths it is better to
instal larger pipes so as to reduce fric-
tion.
If big volumes of water are wanted for
irrigation the pump and power are best
placed right against the source of supply,
But often a few hundred gallons per
month are needed, and the cost per 100
may be one penny or threepence without
affecting your profits.
, _
Hints for the rarm.
“Albarmount”: Worms in horses (B.
12/10/’38)? For round- and thread-
worms and fluke, starve the animal for
24 hours and drench with from 25 c.c. to
50 c.c. of carbon tetrachloride mixed in
paraffin oil—a one-to-four rate as for
sheep drenches. The rear segments of
tapeworms, which contain the eggs,
break off before being expelled, and are
greater in width than length. Infested
horses should be fasted for 24 hours,
then given 2oz. of oil of turpentine—
not paint turps—preferably in capsules.
Repeat with loz. doses every second day
until five have been given. After the last
one, drench the animal with a quart of
raw linseed oil.
“Apollo”: Don’t wait until the sepa-
rator is performing badly. Spend a few
hours twice a year in taking it to pieces,
Studs and nuts are apt to seize and rust
in, oil channels become choked and small
faults accumulate. Clean all the parts,
and oil them. It is not enough to oil
many high-speed bearings—they need oil
flowing through them. While the sepa-
rator is off the block, ream out the holes
for holding-down screws to 9-16 in. Get
four iin. coach screws, cut off their heads
and thread the shank for |in. nuts. Lock
two nuts on (for a temporary head) and
screw these bolts in position on the
foundation block. Sit the separator on
these—they make a firmer job than the
small screws usually supplied with the
outfit.
“Bull-ant Bill”: It’s cheaper to buy
kerosene by the drum, but the tins still
give me a better return in useful odd-
ments. Cut along one corner, diagonally
across the ends, turned back W-fashion,
and fitted into a frame, one makes a
first-rate wash-up and rinsing dish. Cut
one side out and hammer down the edges,
and you have a useful drawer. Two
such in a case form a unit which can be
expanded indefinitely with battens on
the ends and a top, for mouseproof
kitchen storage, workshop odds and ends,
an d j ots Q £ other purposes. Packed
ro und with 3in. of sawdust in a grocery
case> with a sawdust cushion under the
hd an( j a hot firebrick on the bottom,
our kero.-tin cookers save the missus
many a hot kitchen summer hour when
it’s a stew, steam or boil. She has three,
loads them up hot after breakfast, and
has a meal ready by evening with no
more need for a lighted wood stove in
between.
-
“Porcine”: More support of wheat-
feeding for pigs (B. 7/9/’3B) comes from
b. J. Stocks, of Cunningar (N.S.W.). In
addition to growing wheat, he mixes fat
lambs, dairying and pig-raising at Linden
Hills. His pigs have given him a return
of 4s. a bushel for wheat, and when used
with skim-milk the value of the wheat
was greater. At Cootamundra saleyards
recently he realised £32 Bs. for a litter
of eight Tamworth-Berkshire crosses five
months old.
“Western”: Is it a record? At the
Fort Bourke, Dubbo (N.S.W.), dispersal
sale 17,000 merinos of various ages and
classes were sold in straight lines in 3.
minutes. F. S. Falkiner and Sons ac-
quired the old Waddell station as a run
for Boonoke and Wanganella sheep, and
had no use for the stock on the holding.
“Yeno Flam”: By providing improved
pastures for two to three hours grazing
daily, A. H. Bryant, Wollongbar (N.S.W.),
has kept a consistently high level of
winter butter production. He runs 60
cows on 147 acres, of which 67 acres is
improved. The cows get sorghum and
maize in the feed stalls. Pasture is per-
ennial and Italian rye, cocksfoot, red and
white clovers, sown on well prepared seed-
beds. Life of the pasture is about five
years. For green-manure crop Bryant
sows cowpeas with early maize, and
ploughs the peas in after harvesting the
maize in August. Pasture sowing follows,
with 2cwt. of super, an acre, a similar
topdressing rate being used every year.
After five years of grazing, pasture pad-
docks are ploughed and sown with maize
or sorghum for two seasons, then going
under grass again. Rank growth and
weeds are controlled by mowing, and
chain harrows, distribute droppings and
loosen the topsoil.
“Nabawa”: The first of the season s
N.S.W. wheat was harvested by A. C.
Ingham, of Scone, in mid-October. The
variety, Geeralying, is the earliest-
maturing wheat in commercial use.
Ingham has 350 acres of wheat, mainly
Ford —a large area for the Upper
Hunter. Scone is organising a wheat-
crop competition in connection with the
R.A.S. northern championship, and is
the first district east of the Divide to be
so represented. It is not wheat country,
unless in growing the crop for grain or
fodder to feed stock on the farm. That
is Ingham’s object; he combines fat-
lamb raising, dairying and pigs in inten-
sive mixed farming.
“McQ”: Waiting to give deliveiy of
a sheep farm on an island off Maoriland,
an ex-Digger decided to while away the
time by shearing the Angora goats run-
ning wild on the property. Two hundred-
odd were mustered into the cattle yards.
It took nearly a week to do the shearing,
but the hair brought approximately 3s.
a pound, and the goats averaged 41b.
a head.
“J.L.T.”: About the best way to test
unknown water (B. 5/10/’3B) is to make
tea of it. 1 have struck water as clear
as crystal in a sandy creek, which tasted
all right, but tea gave it a bitter taste and
a slightly oily look on top. I later dis-
covered that some prickly-pear poisoners
had had some arsenic left over and had
emptied it into the hole.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to eradicate bracken ? —51231.
The cheapest method of eradication is to
completely exhaust the bracken fern by con-
tinually cutting, slashing or tramping with stock
the young fronds or leaves ol the bracken.
Where the areas are small this can be done with
a bracken scythe or a wire slasher. Should it be
arable land the area can be ploughed and sub-
sequently cultivated. Then sow some form
of vigorous pasture to prevent further growth
of the bracken. In most parts of the N.S.W.
South Coast this can be best achieved by
sowing subterranean clover with liberal appli-
cations of superphosphate, which will encourage
stock to travel through the bracken and so
gradually eliminate the pest.


The Finest MANTEL RADIO
EVER OFFERED IN AUSTRALIA!
I
•i '
m
*V<.
,> v-
.
<
iHI?
m
>.<•
-
*iS
t.
*t*T*?f-*; "v fs > f A
v ''
V
#sc;
.:- ;
The BRITON
«TUC A TDCTTU »
it fILA 1 tvLi Jl 1H
In the "THEATRETTE," Briton Radio have produced a
new design that is entirely unique. This design is
fashioned after the proscenium of a theatre and will add
an unusual smartness to whatever room it graces.
• The “THEATRETTE” is but five inches in depth and
is therefore truly a MANTEL model. Imagine its com-
pactness ... a depth equal to the width of an ordinary
novel.
• The “THEATRETTE” is a radio engineering triumph,
for, whilst achieving the compactness of the “THEA-
TRETTE,” the Briton engineers have maintained all the
essentials of the console models. A full Bin. console-sized
speaker is incorporated. This is a revolutionary advance
in mantel radios
• The “THEATRETTE” has NO chassis. This remark-
ably-designed set has all component parts mounted
direct on the bakelite cabinet, eliminating unnecessary
weight, thus enabling this model to be much more easily
handled. Among the “THEATRETTE” models, there are
both broadcast and dual-wave receivers.
FOR COUNTRY LISTENERS.
For country listeners the “THEATRETTE” battery-operated model
is available. This is highly powered, gives excellent reception and is
specially designed to provide ECONOMICAL operation.
to
Messrs. BRITON ELECTRICAL & RADIO PTY., LTD..
152-156 PARRAMATTA ROAD, PETERSHAM, N.S.W.
KINDLY SEND ME FULL
PARTICULARS OF YOUR
SPECIAL OFFER
ON THIS UNIQUE RADIO
NAME
ADDRESS
NOTE—THIS COUPON MUST BE
ATTACHED WHEN SENDING FOR
PARTICULARS.
BRITON ELECTRICAL AND RADIO PTY. LTD.
152-156 PARRAMATTA ROAD, PETERSHAM, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the W orld,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business^
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F REELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn
in Spare Time !
The most thorough and practical
Course of Trainine ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School oS Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or "To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Soldier’s widow and son, Sydney, require
small cottage, fishing resort, share or small
rental, or would ‘ housekeep; own furniture.
Refs—1256.
Young man wishes to hear from firms which
accept ideas for radio advertisements. —1271.
Accountant, qualified, 17 years in one posi-
tion, exp. in secretarial work, sales and general
organising, married, desires position Will start
in any position.—'1288.
To buy The Double Event, by Nat Gould. —
1300.
To buy copy of Spinifex and Sand. —1277.
To obtain old motor books, manuals, in-
struction books, catalogues and periodicals
dated 1898-1914.—1273.
Words of poem about a sailor who left his
ship which begins: —
He was an agile sailonnan
Who longed to know the bush.
—1298.
Words of recitation “A Bushman’s Farewell
to Queensland.” —1312.
Words of a poem thought to have been
written by A. A. Proctor in 1850, and possibly
published in Melbourne “Argus,” entitled “The
Ocean Child.” —1270.
Words of poem “At Kenevan’s.” —1092.
Information Sought.
(1) Is it compulsory for a N.S.W. shire
council to have a revaluation of all rateable
lands at least once in every six years? (2)
If a council does not have a revaluation made,
has a ratepayer any redress against it?— 1010.
(1) Shire councils, other than those situated
wholly or partly within the County of Cum-
berland or the Blue Mountains Shire Council,
have the option whether the valuation of
rateable land within the shire is to be made in
accordance with Schedule 111 of the Local Gov-
ernment Act, 1919, or in accordance with the
provisions of the Valuation of Land Act, 1916.
If the former method is adopted the valuation
is made by one or more competent valuers
appointed by the council, and Clause 8 of the
schedule provides that valuation of all rateable
land shall be made (a) once at least in every
six years; ( b ) for a valuation period—that is to
say, for a period not exceeding six years. If,
however, the valuation is made in accordance
with the latter Act the Valuer-General is re-
sponsible for the making of the valuations, and
that Act provides that a valuation list giving
particulars of the valuations shall be furnished
to the councils at least once in every three
years. (2) Section 634 of the Local Government
Act, 1919, provides that (a) if any council or any
member thereof neglects or refuses to do any-
thing which by or under this Act it or he is
directed or required to do, it or he shall for
every such offence be liable to a penalty not
exceeding £50; (b) if any servant of the council
neglects or refuses to do anything which by
or under this Act he is directed or required to
do, he shall for every such offence be liable
to a penalty not exceeding £5. Section 584 em-
powers any person to sue for any penalty re-
coverable against a council or any member or
servant of the council.
* * * *
Length of coastline of each of the Australian
States and of the whole Commonwealth, includ-
ing Tasmania? —1315.
N. S. Wales 700 miles, Vic. 680, Q’land 3000,
Northern Territory 1040, South Aus. 1540, West
Aus. 4350, Tas. 900, Commonwealth 12,210.
* * * *
Names of Labor Premiers of N. S. Wales,
and duration of office? —1330.
J. S. T. McGowen (Oct. 21, 1910, to June 29,
1913), William Holman (June 29, 1913, to
April 12, 1920; in 1916 Holman was ex-
pelled from the Labor party in connection with
the conscription issue, and later formed the
National Ministry), John Storey (April 13, 1920,
to Oct. 5, 1921), James Dooley (Oct. 10, 1921,
to April 13, 1922), J. T. Lang (June 17, 1925,
to Oct. 18, 1927, and Nov. 4, 1930, to May 13,
1932).
* * * *
Name of the first Mayor of Melbourne.
Where was he born, and what was his occupa-
tion? —1099.
Henry Condell, who occupied the chair from
1842 to 1844. He was born in Madeira in 1799,
and was a brewer.
* * * *
Is it true that a former Japanese Prime
Minister, Baron Tanaka, in a memorial to the
Japanese Emperor outlined a plan for world
domination, a first step in which was the subju-
gation of China? —1313.
An English translation of such a document
was published by the “China Critic,” Shanghai,
a Chinese Nationalist organ. Japanese authori-
ties say that it is a work of fiction; that it deals
with details that are never presented by a
Minister to the Emperor; that it mentions a
“mission to Europe and America,” supposed to
have been undertaken at a time when Tanaka
was well known to be in Japan. Further, it
avers that Tanaka attended a conference with
the late Emperor Taisho and Yamagata when
the Washington Treaty was signed, though at
that time Yamagata was dead and the Em-
peror Taisho had for years been too ill to
attend to affairs of State. Other internal evi-
dence is adduced as to falsity of the document.
The important point is that it is not an
official statement of Japanese policy and is
specifically and definitely disowned by Japan.
* * * *
If a human body dropped from an aeroplane
at a sufficient height, would its velocity attain
a maximum speed, and thereafter remain con-
stant, or would the speed continually increase
till the moment of contact with the earth ?
1306.
The mathematical rule of gravitational ac-
celeration applies to bodies falling in a
vacuum. Falling through air the effect of air
resistance increases with the speed, and para-
chutists of long experience say that the human
body attains in a long fall a speed of about
120 m.p.h. (176 ft. per sec.), after which there
is little, if any, acceleration.
* * + *
(1) When the personal covenant clause in
mortgages was abolished in N.S.W. was the
Rural Bank especially exempt? (2) What is the
position of the personal covenant clause at
present? —ll2o.
(1) The original Moratorium Act (1930) pro-
vided that it should not bind the Crown or
“any statutory body representing the Crown."
A list of some of the exempted bodies included
the Government Savings Bank but not the Rural
Bank. (2) Under the amending and consolidat-
ing Act of 1932 it is now competent for a mort-
gagor to insert the personal covenant in any
mortgage drawn up after the commencement of
that Act, and if he does so he will be liable
thereon.
* * * *
(1) Would a two-cylinder pump be more effi-
cient and lighter to work than a single-cylinder
pump of the same capacity? (2) ll.p. required
to lift 10,000 gallons per hour to a height
of 16//. ? —1225. . .
(1) Assuming both types are designed for the
class of work they have to perform, there should
be very little difference. In the twin-cylinder
type there may be less cyclic irregularity. (2)
To find the theoretical h.p., multiply the gal-
lons per hour by the height, in feet, and divide
by 198,000. Thus, 10,000 x 16 equals 160,000,
which divided by 198,000 gives 0.8 h.p. rhe
actual h.p. required will .depend upon the effi-
ciency of the pump, but if the theoretical
h.p. is doubled this will be the approximate
h.p. required—in this case 1.6, say two h.p.
A h.p. engine is recommended, so that
it will not be working at full capacity.
* * * *
What is the correct way to introduce people ?
I am having my first party, and there are several
married couples. Who should be introduced
first, the gentleman or the lady? —l2s4.
You cannot go wrong if you make the intro-
ductions as simple as possible; a mere mention
of the names is usually sufficient. Ladies are
always introduced before gentlemen; married
women before single ones; elder people first.
Exceptions occur if there is a guest of dis-
tinction present, when such person is usually
shown a little consideration by taking prece-
dence of others. When introducing two people
of the same sex, the more important name is
mentioned last; this is an _ old rule, and is
much ignored now. Just be simple and pleasant
about it, and avoid above all things the
American form “Meet So-and-so.”
* * * *
How to obtain that very high and hard
polish often seen on tan shoes? —1214.
Only leather of the best quality with a hard,
smooth surface can be highly polished. Re-
peated polishing increases the quality of the
leather to sustain a high brilliance, so that a
boot or other piece of leather which is not new
is better than a new one in appearance. The
second point, of equal importance, is to use only
a good polish which has beeswax as a founda-
tion, to apply it sparingly over perfectly clean,
dry leather, and to apply plenty of elbow-grease.
Sand or any other abrasive is fatal to the finish
of leather, and only boots which are used in
surroundings free from grit can be polished in
the manner you describe.
* * * *
A few particulars concerning Montserrat,
one of the Leeward Islands? —1334.
Montserrat is about 26 miles s.-w. of
Antigua, and is about 11 miles in length and
seven in breadth, comprising an area of 324
square miles, with a population of 13,161.
Discovered by Columbus in 1493, it was settled
by Irishmen, conquered and held by the
French for some time, and finally assigned to
Great Britain in 1784. It is considered one of
the most healthy and beautiful of the Antilles,
and contains three active soufrieres and several
hot springs. The scenery is well diversified.
About two-thirds of the island is mountainous,
the rest well cultivated. The chief exports are
cottonseed meal, cotton, cottonseed oil, limes
and their products, and tomatoes. The chief
town is Plymouth, with a population of 1709.
* * * *
(1) Name of builder of new Manly ( Sydney )
ferry steamer South Steyne? (2) How many
passengers will it carry? (3) Length? (4)
Breadth? (5) Gross tonnage? —l3lB.
(1) Henry Robb, Ltd., Leith. (2) About 2000.
(3) 220 ft. (4) 38ft. (5) 1203 tons.
* * * *
In an introduction to a book of humorous
sayings the following phrase occurs: “Duplex
omnino est jocandi genus: unum illiberale,
petulans, flagitiosum, obsccenum; alterum
elegans, urbanum, ingeniosum, facetum.” Can
you give me a translation and the name of the
author? —1324. ... ,
The author was Cicero. Translated it reads:
“Joking is divided into two distinct classes:
one wanton, shameful, obscene; the other
elegant, courtly, ingenious, polite.”
A few details concerning Frederick Howard,
author of “The Emigrant” ?—1327.
He was born in London in 1904, and was
educated at Dulwich College and privately. He
studied and wrote widely on migration from
Great Britain to Australia and Argentine. From
1929 to 1931 he edited “Stead’s Review,” and
in 1935 visited Russia for the Melbourne
• Herald,” on the staff of which paper he is a
columnist. Novels include The Emigrant (1928),
Return Ticket (1929), Leave Us the Glory (1935)
and The Negroes Begin at Calais (1938). In
1935 he won the Commonwealth Prize Scenario
competition.
How to grow water-lilies? —1340.
Tubs (waterproofed with pitch), either sunk in
the ground or placed on pedestals, and large
earthenware pots are suitable. Line them with
sods, from which all weeds have beep removed.
Fill wire-netting baskets with soil, plant the
lilies in them, place them in position in the
containers, and then fill within an inch of the
rim with clean water. An open sunny position
is desirable. A few small fish placed in the
containers will eat mosquito larvae.
* * * *
Owing to the ravages of termites / am unable
to grow climbing plants on a wooden fence.
How can l overcome this, and what are some
hardy flowering plants which will grow on the
structure ? —1337.
Iron supports are the only way to beat ter-
mites. Buy one-inch gas- or water-pipes
(second-hand material will do), give them a
thick painting and then screw together. Stand
the posts in kero.-tins filled with concrete.
Heavyweight wire-netting (also painted) drawn
tight and fastened to the piping will make a
strong structure which, if periodically re-
painted, will defy termites and weather. Ever-
green (lowering climbing plants suitable are
bignonia venusta and b. tweediana, manettias,
thunbergias, roses (Black Boy, Noella Nabon-
nand or Madame Segond Weber), pelargoniums,
aristolochias (Dutchman’s pipe), convolvulus,
lonicera (honeysuckle) and jasminum.
*'* * *
Best time to prune native shrubs? —1322.
Native shrubs are always pruned after the
(lowering has died down: this encourages new
wood, on which the blooms will be carried
next year. Heavy pruning is necessary where
shapeliness is desired, and this is especially the
case with Geraldton wax, Christmas bush,
boronias and waratahs, while bottlebrushes will
be considerably helped if the seed-heads are
cut away. Rotted leaves and fresh soil stirred
about the base of the shrubs are a tonic after
pruning.
* * * *
(1) Was Jimmy dabby ever recognised as
middleweight champion of the world? (2)
How did George Chip win the world’s middle-
weight championship? (3) Was he still
possessed of this title when Les Darcy defeated
him in Sydney? —l246.
(1) No, though he claimed the championship
after Stanley Ketchel was killed on a Missouri
ranch in 1910. The title reverted to Billy Papke
(from whom Ketchel had won it). (2) He
knocked out Klaus (who had defeated Papke)
in six rounds at Pittsburg (U.S.A.) on October
11, 1913. (3) Chip lost the championship on a
one-round knockout to A 1 McCoy at Brooklyn
on April 7, 1914, and McCoy was champion
when Les Darcy knocked out Chip in nine
rounds at the Sydney Stadium on* September
30, 1916.
* * * *
When Marvin Hart defeated Jack Root in
the United States (/ think it was in 1906) and
claimed to have won the world’s heavyweight
championship, many American critics ridiculed
his claim, yet the same critics were unanimous
in recognising Tommy Burns as heavyweight
champion of the world when he beat Hart later.
If Hart was not the real world’s heavyweight
champion, how did Burns become possessed of
that title by beating Hart? —l274.
After Jim Jeffries retired as world’s heavy-
weight champion, he refereed the Marvin Hart
v. Jack Root contest at Reno, Nev., on July 3,
1905. Hart won on points, and Jeffries, when
awarding the decision, declared Hart holder of
the championship he had vacated. Many
American boxing writers claimed Jeffries could
not do this, and they refused to recognise
Hart or Burns, who outpointed Hart in Los
Angeles on February 24, 1906, as heavyweight
champion of the world. Burns afterwards de-
feated “Philadelphia Jack” O’Brien, Bill Squires
(champion of Australia), Gunner Moir (cham-
pion of England) and Jem Roche (champion
of Ireland), however, and the American critics
generally recognised Burns as world’s heavy-
weight champion when Jack Johnson stopped
him in 14 rounds at the Sydney Stadium on
Boxing Day, 1908. Johnson then clinched his
claim to the world’s heavyweight championship
by knocking out Jeffries in 15 rounds at Reno
on July 4, 1910.
* * * *
(1) Where and when was Atilio Sabatino
born ? (2) Do you agree with the decision
awarded Sabatino in his last fight at the Sydney
Stadium with Fred Henneberry ? (2) How many
times have Henneberry and Sabatino met, and
how did the contests result? —921.
(1) Sabatino was born at San Juan, Puerto
Rica, on May 6, 1911. (2) This page doesn’t
express opinions. (3) Three times. In the
first the decision went to Sabatino on points, in
the second the verdict was a draw, and the
third encounter ended in a decision for Saba-
tino.
* * * *
(1) How are the points awarded in Sheffield
Shield cricket? (2) What were the positions of
the teams in last year’s matches? (3) Did
Queensland win any matches in the series? —
1221.
(1) Outright win five points, win on first
innings three points, draw or tie two points,
loss on first innings one point, abandoned
match two points each. (2) N.S.W. scored 21
points, Victoria 14, S. Australia 14 and Queens-
land five. (3) No; Queensland lost three
matches outright, one on the first innings, and
two matches were drawn.
* * * *
In Test cricket, did England or Australia ever
have a different captain in every match of the
series? What year, and the captains? —ll2l.
When Shrewsbury’s English team toured Aus-
tralia in 1884-85 Australia changed captains in
all five matches—Murdoch at Adelaide, Horan
at Melbourne, H. Massie at Sydney, Blackham
at Sydney, and Horan at Melbourne. Eng-
land has never had more than two captains
in any series of Tests.
Brief Answers.
W.E.G.: Cannot trace paragraphs mentioned.
If you state exact requirements will endeavor
to secure information for you... .P.P.M.: You
win; Griffo first fought Billy Murphy at the
Sydney- Amateur Gymnastic Club, York-street,
Sydney. E.C.H.: Account of Bob Fitz-
simmons’s career appeared in The Bulletin of
January 13, 1937, and of Peter Jackson’s career
in the issues of February 3 and 10, 1937
P.E.: Write Cinesound Productions, 65 Ebley-
street, Waverley, Sydney W.H.S.: J. H.
Smyth, Ltd., 114 Castlereagh-street; A. C.
Campe, 50 Sydney-arcade; and K. S. Baker, 12
Royal-arcade —all Sydney... .H.M.: Research
Officer, Public Library of N.S.W., Macquarie-
street, Sydney, may be able to suggest a suit-
able system C.G.G.: Write Under-Secretary,
Agricultural Department, Wellington, M.L
■ M.C.: He is looking at a portrait of his son.
. ...J.H.J.: Government employees as at June
30, 1936, were as follows; Commonwealth
66,325, N.S.W. 104,790, Vic. 64,653, Queens-
land 36,382. S.A. 23,284, W.A. 26,095, Tas.
8504, total for Australia 330,033 J.A.M.:
According to Whitaker’s Almanack there are
692,400,000 Christians and 1,167,110,000 non-
Christians in the world R.O.M.: A full list
is given in Whitaker’s Almanack for 1938,
page 201 H.C.R.: Local hospitals might be
glad to have them... .S.S.E.: No, it is an asset
in the bankrupt’s estate... .B.H.: The peaceful
placing of men by a trade union to dissuade
their fellow-wqrkers from going to work during
a strike is not in itself an offence punishable
in law. Should, however, the pickets go on the
property of the owner without lawful reason
or excuse it becomes a trespass and may be
dealt with as such N.M.: Under the Statute
of Limitations an action to recover a simple
contract debt must be brought within six years.
M.P.H.: H. S. McLaren, 84 Union-street,
North Brighton, S.6, Vic R.B.: Cannot say
how many copies are taken off for the world
market, but in Australia the number ranges
from eight to 20 per picture, according to the
merit of the film. There is no limit to the
number of prints that can be taken off a nega-
tive W.C.F.: (1) When the odds are seven
to four against you lay four to win seven.
(2) When the odds are seven to four on you
lay seven to win four J.B.: Radio Advertis-
ing in Australia, by W. A. McNair (35s.)
H.S.: All persons who are engaged in insur-
able employment in Australia on or after Janu-
ary 2, 1939, and who are between the ages of
14 years and 65 years (60 years in the case of
women) will be subject to the provisions of the
National Health and Pensions Insurance Act,
which provides for compulsory insurance irre-
spective of nationality A.E.C.: (1) Try
Bennett Trading Co., 82 Oxford-street, or Haege
Hermann Waste Products, Ivy-street, Darling-
ton, both Sydney. (2) Reworked into cheap
felt slippers, linings for slippers and similar
purposes; but as there is no shortage of
rabbit fur, from which hats are made, there is
very little demand for old felt, and it is doubt-
ful if you can dispose of any quantity....
F.W.T.: Melt together over gentle heat eight
parts resin, four parts rapeseed oil and one
part honey. Spread on sized paper which does
not allow the mixture to soak in and become
ineffective. For the rapeseed oil you may sub-
stitute neatsfoot, castor or other slow-drying
oil I.D.: (1) On south coast at Mario, Vic-
toria. (2) Eclipse Island in west and Cape
Howe in east, according to Marine Branch of
Commerce Department, which administers
Marine Act J.P.C.: You .will find the bank
architect quite reliable... .I.M.M.: Cannot say
without seeing the book... .A.H.I.: (1) Yes.
(2) Four years. (3) General assignments
A. N.S.W. Taxation Department advises
that tax-free income is not being taken into
account in determining the rate of tax payable
by taxpayers... .J.A.C.: The Douglas DC3 air-
liner operating the Sydney-Brisbane service has
accommodation for 22 passengers in addition to
a crew of three, comprising a captain, first
officer and hostess. The average flying time for
the flight is 2\ hours. This aircraft is a mono-
plane, and is powered by two engines. The
Sydney-Rabaul-New Guinea service maintained
by W. R. Carpenter Airlines is operated by a
DH86B type of aircraft, which has capacity
for 10 passengers. Owing to the fact that Car-
penters are a subsidised airline, they are com-
pelled to carry all airmail offering, which some-
times restricts their passenger capacity.
DH86B aircraft are biplanes, and are powered
by four engines.... J.S.S.: Question is very vague.
State your exact requirements and full informa-
tion will be furnished... .J.H.: Write Q’land
Government Tourist Bureau, Adelaide-street,
Brisbane M.P.R.: The average annual rain-
fall at Mareeba (Q.) is 35.09in., and at Birdsville
(Q.) 5.75in. The lowest average annual rain-
fall for Queensland is that of Birdsville
B. : The bathing costumes worn in “No, No,
Nanette” were white and colored satins, made
in Canada for Buckley and Nunn, Melbourne,
the sole agents. Trade name of these costumes
is “Ripplie”... .M.A.: The signal box re-
ferred to as “Blaxland Junction” was opened on
May 11, 1913, when the new deviation through
the Blaxland Gorge was brought into use. A
single line only was laid through the gorge
in the first instance for use by “down” (from
Sydney) trains, the “up” (to Sydney) trains
continuing to travel over the old line through
Glenbrook Tunnel. When the second line
through the gorge was completed for the “up'
trains the Blaxland Junction was used as a
refuge siding. The Blaxland Junction signal
box was closed on June 18, 1935, when the
refuge siding was abandoned A.D. : Pelman-
ism is a 15-lesson course in mental training. The
Pelman Institute has been established in Aus-
tralia for more than 30 years (address, 396
Flinders-lane, Melbourne), and issues, free, a
76-page book, The Efficient Mind, describing
the course fully... .I.M.P.: Write American
Consulate, 7 Wynyard-street, Sydney
W.F.S.: Write P. F. Irvine, solicitor, 19
Bridge-street, Sydney... .J.A.M.: (1) Phar Lap.
(2) Have only heard of him being called by
his own name.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
ON SALE EVERY WEDNESDAY,
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 68-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Every month six to nine
patterns are given away free
for a penny stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
252 George Street, Sydney.
HER BACK ACHED
ALL THE TIME
Kruschen Made Her Feel Better
and Look Years Younger.
Backache caused this woman so much pain
that she could not take exercise, and, as a
result, she soon put on weight. She tells in the
following letter how she overcame her troubles
with Kruschen: —
“I started taking Kruschen Salts for rheuma-
tism about four months ago. I could not use
my right arm, and my back ached all the time.
Also, from lack of exercise through the pain,
I was putting on too much weight. I saw
Kruschen advertised, and decided to try it.
Now—to my surprise and pleasure—not only do
1 feel better, but I have lost my fat and look
years younger. Previous to taking Kruschen 1
weighed 11 stone 7 lbs. I now weigh 9 stone
2 lbs.”—(Mrs.) N.N.
Fat and the pain-causing crystals of uric
acid are deposits resulting from poisons which
have invaded the bloodstream. Gently, but
surely, Kruschen Salts rid the system of all
fat-forming food refuse, and of all poisons and
harmful acids which give rise to rheumatism,
headaches and many other ills.
ds
>r.
s*
*/
BEST^
BRITISH
BLADE
J
fds
I Sole Agents; JOUBERT 6- JOUBERT PTY. LTD. |
m
K
■l A
/I
:i-S : S:if|S¥sS
-//>!*
%
■
' ' ■••• •:•••
Start the dau
with Health & Zest
Drink delic
IOUS
OWTINE
every night
~ and note the Difference!
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial sample
of ‘Ovaltinesufficient to make four cups-
ful, will be sent on receipt of 3d. in stamps
to cover cost of packing and postage.
Prices; 1/9, 2/10, 5/-; all Chemists and Stores.
A. WANDER LTD., 1 YORK ST. NORTH, SYDNEY.
035-18-38.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, noi to members of the staff personally.
9
B.B.: Send it to the lady A.D.8.: Earth
“on its knees”? FMB ■ Too tearful
HLD • Dnpcn’t rinr, WrUir,n„rm<r
rm t • ? ring, the Wollongong ..
G.M.T.. Try a womens paper... .D. 8.0 C. .
“Le Bon Soldat Anglais” is no b0n....P.M.:
Bright but trite L.H.: Fair, but a rattler
PC.: Heavy.... F.J.8.: Did you mean that
ohisflv m.n nn
ghastly pun on throne ?.. A.S.M.: Labored.
...J.S.: Not a stayer... .H.8.D.: “Monday-
itis” gave us a bad attack of it T.E.McC.:
Welcome back; but your handwriting hasn’t
improved... .E.A.W.: Six dreams in the first
stanza!... .A.G.J.: Nice shoes, but worn....
N.G.H.C.: Heard that one before, too
W.A.: It’s hardly a “Recessional”... .W.D.G.:
“Inarticulate” is an ominous title... .8.W.:
Hollow as a drum.... M.C.: Slight.... R.J.:
Mother’s remarkably patient if she’s been wait-
ing at the door for a year... .T.R.: Don’t be-
lieve the wind doth leer J. De L.: Read
what’s being written to-day J.V.E.: Dawn
is not spelt “dorn,” nor morn “mawn”... .P.K.:
So you chatter, chatter, eh? E.A.H.:
“Achievement” slight and well-worn... .A.C.:
Well done, but not what we want... .H.G.: No
room for those “rugged men of primitive
passions”... .E.D.; Flapper fodder... .T.E.P.:
PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
Not far away A.H.: No sty for Sapphire,
the Blonde Venus of the piggery....
R.H.8.: Not for us... .J.M.L.: Try again....
G.N.D.: Spring always brings in a batch like
that P.R.C.: A couple of years and you
might see print... .L.M.: Hoary J.H.:
Thin H.P.W.: For flapper mags
N.R.F.: Not that one, but try again 8.R.P.:
Must you send them to us? N.D.S.: An
improvement 8.T.: Read it to her....C.P.:
Useless L.P.C.: Cut it, brighten up the
finish and try again 8.P.C.: Australian or
South Sea settings, please... .H.T.N.: “Flame”
flickered for a page or two, then went out
8.T.W.: It doesn’t hit the mark 8.P.: Heavy
going K.T.C.: A daily might consider it
F.Y.: Wouldn’t mind inspecting some others
R.V.: Off our beat... .J.G.D.: And you’re off
yours... .8.R.: Gangsters sentenced to lan-
guish in the morgue 8.P.: A stamp will
bail that one out D.L.T.: You’re wasting
your time with that sort of stuff C.R.J.:
Too gory 8.F.P.: It’s been done before
F.S.: “And the Swallows Nested” in the w.p.b.
.... J.M.: Something there, but you don’t make
a job of it N.D.L.: Nor do y0u....C.T.:
Have read worse... .L.R.P.: We’ll attend to
the illustrating if the yarn’s worth it
H.C.D.: Try it elsewhere... .D.P.W.: Dread-
ful... .M.T.L.: Doesn’t make a yarn L.C.:
You’ve been watching too many fillums
H. 8.: Try a technical magazine that deals
with the subject... .G.P.R.: Interest too local.
....N.F.: Vague L.R.N.: Can’t tolerate
ghosts 8.P.Z.: Sticky G.H.G.: Re-
signedly awaiting the next half-dozen 8.R.,
M.McC., D.R.V., W.M. and R.T.: Try them
elsewhere T.H.R.: Come again D.P.:
We’ll read them without promising anything.
. ...N.R.: There are better ways of telling
it S.P.R.: Plot has whiskers R.F.8.:
Take a rest for a while P.L.M.: “Zoo
Frolic” a dull affair, and giraffes are voiceless.
. ...N.T.D.: Cut it by half and try elsewhere.
. ...8.T.: “Castaway” should be marooned for
good J.F.T.: What next? ... .L.T.8.: Yawn-
provokers N.R.T.: One chapter is no use;
send the book when it’s completed L.K.W.:
“Exactly what is wrong with these yarns?”
Sorry, space is limited... .8.H.5.: Can’t say
where “Falling Stars” will land.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.A.: Admired the keg, but not the drinkers
around it....T.M.: They may have cheered the
family circle, but they appeared very dull to
u5....N.P.: Lise a fixative with pencil draw-
ings C.S.: That fishing joke makes a regular
appearance W.W.: Cup drawing scratched.
N.B.: Was responsible for the Art Editor’s
nightmares J.S.: Your understanding of inter-
national politics is as muddled as your know-
ledge of art D.R.R.: Nice legs, nice waist-
line, dreadful arms and ugly face... .E.N.D.:
Don’t want copies of Lawson Wood postcards.
S.L.: They increased the reject pile by half
an inch G.D.: The large chap with the
whiskers faced the office firing-squad; lady was
let off with, a caution R.K.: You’re using
too fine a nib, and paper needs a smoother
surface for that class of work... .P.E.: It’s
time that old gag was given a smoking-cap
and carpet slippers C.H.: Faint signs of
promise; study more from life... .P.J.: That
particular effort should have been sent to the
correspondence school running the competition.
S.M.: Get more action into your pictures.
....F.S.W.: Joke is as barren of fun as the
drawing is of merit... .W.D.P.: Who told you
that we offered a weekly prize for the best-
drawn film star? ... .L.E.: Present cartoon on
rout of Drys in M.L. and Vic. to favorite bar-
maid. .. .P.J.: An idea of the comic, but sketches
sadly lack polish N.C.R.: We reach for a
shotgun whenever we sight that lamp-post
leaner... .M. 8.: It almost scored a cheque;
rub off a few of the rough corners and resubmit.
E.D.: Liked parachute-jumper, but the
gag doesn’t fit the drawing A.H.: Habit of
correcting mistakes by pasting bits and pieces
all over drawing is not to be recommended
L.S.W.: Too faintly drawn for successful re-
production... .V.M.K.: Not what we’re look-
ing f0r....K.8.: You must have learned about
anatomy in a toy-soldier factory... .A. Y.: We
saluted the dead with due reverence.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Surprising how gloomy some of these
professors have got since Chamberlain
went to Munich. Said Prof. Giblin,
moping at Melbourne: “England will
never fight again to prevent German
domination of Europe; she will cease
to be a first-class Power.” And “Eng-
land is finished as an immigrant-export-
ing country,” moaned Prof. Hancock at
Adelaide. But didn’t Mr. Hancock write
in one of his books that oratory was
“finished,” and hasn’t he lived to see
the world hanging on the words of two
men?
* * * *
To the relief of Europe, foreigners are
being withdrawn from the armies of both
Spanish factions. A special weight has
been lifted from the British Government’s
mind, for in her book, Blackmail or War,
Madame Two-Blues warned it of “the
dangers that would arise if a new
offensive by Franco’s armies were started
simultaneously with a Japanese attack
on Hong Kong,” the lady’s argument
being that “the defence of British in-
terests in the Far East can, and should,
be insured in Spain.” In the same
historic volume, Madame told Chamber-
lain that the game was up—“ Now that
Mr. Eden is released from office, he may
well gain a speedy victory for Labor in
England at the new elections.”
* * * *
“Matt Lowe”: “D.E.’s” Italian com-
mander (B. 5/10/’3B) was justified in main-
taining that Blake was a greater admiral
than Nelson. Blake took over and per-
sonally built up a disaffected and badly-
equipped remnant into a fleet that broke
the Dutch naval power, cleaned up
Prince Rupert’s fleet and the pirates of
Algiers, and finally smashed the
Spaniards. His exploit at Teneriffe out-
shone that of Nelson at Aboukir in that
he had forts as well as ships to contend
with. He revolutionised naval warfare
by staying at sea all through the winter
to blockade the Spanish coast and catch
the treasure ships from South America.
Nelson grew up and was trained in an
already reasonably efficient navy, though
he improved its tactics. Blake served
Cromwell, unpopular with many of his
countrymen. Nelson fought against
Napoleon, the bogey of all Britain.
Blake’s work was undone by Charles 11.,
whilst Nelson’s gave Britain a sovereignty
of the seas that endures.
* * * *
“El V.” on a Coldstreamer:
Australian papers took little notice of the
death.of Alan Dawnay, public relations officer
of the War Office, found gassed in London. Yet
thousands of Australians must have seen him —
the Westralians had a particularly good look at
him when he was on Allenby’s immediate staff
at the formal entry into Jerusalem. Outwardly
Dawnay was a haughty, typical Coldstreamer,
scion of a family whose head is Viscount
Downe, and which has suffered as many deaths
by violence in battle as any in British history.
Inside, however, he harbored a fastidious
literary soul. He was an M.A. of Oxford (Mag-
dalen) and was a friend and colleague of Law-
rence in the Arab war, out of which he came
with every order the Middle East had to
bestow, together with the Italian Silver Medal
for valor and eight mentions in dispatches.
Before he established the War Office publicity
department, he was controller of the output
division of the 8.8. C. An elder brother, Guy,
another Oxford-educated Coldstreamer, is chair-
man of Armstrong Whitworth and of Gordon
Hotels, and director of Vickers and Liverpool,
London and Globe Insurance.
*** _ *
“V.D.”: The mention of “Ballyhooly”
Martin (B. 21/9/’3B), the witty Irish-
man once on the staff of the “Pink ’Un,”
prompts me to ask what has become of
the witty Irishman to-day. G.B.S. may
be quoted, but he is really a contempo-
rary of Martin, and the few other Irish
writers one has heard of are no longer
young. H. V. Morton, in In Search of
Ireland, mentions his disappointment at
the dullness of the speeches in the Dail.
Possibly the saturnine “Dev.” does not
encourage wit. It was different in the
Commons in the days of the old Nation-
alist party.
* * * *
“O.”: A. W. Skidmore, assistant secre-
tary of Sydney R.A.S., and Tom Macfar-
lane, member of the R.A.S. council and
studmaster of the Cullingral Corriedale
flock, near Merriwa (N.S.W.), are tour-
ing the U.S.A. in search of ring attrac-
tions for next Sydney Show. Skidmore,
an Englishman, put in some time in the
East Indies before coming to Sydney. The
Merriwa man traces back to Maoriland,
has a high-class Lincoln-merino-Corrie-
dale flock and occupies the homestead
built by Gregory Blaxland.


5*
£
frF!i
BSSii
W ■«'
A section of the
Rolling Mills
where the raw
steel is rolled into
sheets.
LYSAGHT
\fiyp
AUSTRALIA
red orb
Galvanized Iron
for Roofing and
Walling.
BECAUSE only the very finest
of raw materials are used in
the manufacture of Red Orb Gal-
vanized Iron The Rigid Roofing
Sheets —and because at every
stage from the rolling mills on-
wards# the utmost care and skill
is devoted to their production#
Lysaght's are able to guarantee
every sheet which bears their
brand. This confidence is reflected
by users of Red Orb Galvanized
Iron throughout Australia.
FREE—a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of useful
information for ironworkers, storekeepers, and
the man on the land. Write to John Lysaght
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Box 196 D., G.P.0., Sydney.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
• •
m
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Me ourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
A MIXED GRILL.
“T.”: I like the subjoined election re-
port, the work of Our Own Correspon-
dent at Gore (M.L.): —
Mr. David McDougall, Independent can-
didate for Mataura, addressed an audience
of 600 in Gore and was given an enthusi-
astic reception.
Prior to the start of his address the
audience sang “For He’s a Jolly Good
Fellow.”
The speaker criticised the work of the
Forbes and Coalition Governments and
praised the Labor Government. He chal-
lenged the audience to say that the Master
was a fraud.
At the conclusion of his address Mr. Mc-
Dougall sang a song which he hoped
would cheer up the drooping spirit of the
Tories.
And then I turned up the election results
and found this:
MATAURA.
McDougall (lnd.) .. .. 5627
T. L. MacDonald (N.) .. 4051
Perhaps they picked David for his sing-
ing.
* * * *
It is a common complaint in
Macquarie-street, Sydney, that Ryde,
Minister Spooner’s electorate, gets far
more than a fair share of Government
expenditure on “works.” On the other
hand, the oldest and most uncomfort-
able Government trams on the lines
seem to be reserved for Ryde. That
suburb never sees any of the new cars
with cushion seats, though they abound
on routes like Cremorne-The Spit. Yet
Cremorne-The Spit is a short route and
doesn’t pay ; Circular Quay-Ryde is a
long route, and does pay. Spooner will
have to see to this.
* * * *
Richmond (Vic.) Council solemnly
debated whether the Labor Mayor should
be equipped with robes of musquash or
bunny. The loss to the mayoral dignity
through wearing bunny foliage wasn’t
considered worth the £9 that would have
been saved, and the Mayor will now
appear at important functions in mus-
quash. When a councillor remarked that
he might just as well go to a ball in
bowyangs and bluchers, another Bumble
shouted, “You are insulting the
workers! ”
* * * *
“K.N.”: Sydney has had a Catholic
Women’s conference that drew delegates
from Maoriland as well as from every
State of the. Commonwealth. Though
the matter in the papers read was seri-
ous, a laugh was occasionally tucked
into the day’s business. For instance,
Dr. Eris O’Brien, who presided one
day, began: “I am edified to see such
a large and attentive audience much
more edified than when 1 was shown into
a room opposite and, picking up a paper,
found it was a turf guide.”
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Budding talent doesn’t always
go unrecognised. “Gregan McMahon is
a youngish actor man who has
climbed in the last couple of years.
His eminently practical businessman in
‘Diana of Dobson’s’ was a noticeable
performance. Later he has given us
Jean Torquenie, Brough’s old character
in ‘The Village Priest,’ and the study
was intelligent, the representation accur-
ate and vital.... McMahon, I remember,
began with a very hard line (like an
immature amateur in pen-drawing), but
he has softened and mellowed, and
promises to be a very useful artist of
uncommon versatility.” This, by a Bul-
letin commentator, was published on
Sept. 30, 1909. McMahon has played
upwards of 800 parts, and in his latest
at Melbourne Comedy only waited once
on the prompter for a split second at the
first performance.
* * * •
Probably the only hollow log in the
world which has been declared a per-
petual memorial lies in the Sherbrooke
Forest, Victoria. The State Government
preserved it in memory of naturalist
Tom Tregellas, who made it his quarters
for many years when he conducted night-
long vigils observing the lyrebird. On
several occasions he had vice-regal com-
pany. Sickness forced him to give up
such field studies a few years ago. He
was 74 at the finish.
* * * *
Since gold was first discovered in Wcst-
tralia, companies engaged in mining it
have paid dividends totalling over
£A34,500,000. Kalgoorlie has contributed
nearly £26,000,000, Murchison (princi-
pally the old Fingall and Meekatharra
group) £22,500,000, Mt. Margaret (chiefly
Sons of Gwalia and Lancefield)
£2,000,000, and East Murchison (mainly
Wiluna and Lawlers mines) £1,700,000.
Great Boulder tops the list of individual
distributors with £6,500,000. Yellow-
dine, with a distribution of nearly
£300,000, is the best among the new
arrivals. Last year there were 16,174
persons engaged in the industry, and
4259 were on the Kalgoorlie field.
* * * *
“Verona”: “Vernon’s” list of Shak-
speare’s references to motoring (B.
28/9/’3B) is not complete. Let me add a
few:
“Away to Britain post 1 in this design.”
—“Cymbeline,” Act V, Scene 4.
“My power! Alas, 1 doubt.”
“Measure for Measure,” Act I, Scene 4.
“I know a lady in Venice would have
walked.”—-“Othello,” Act IV, Scene 1.
“The carriages, in faith, are very dear.”
—“Hamlet,” Act V, Scene 1.
“There goes the Talbot.”— “Henry
V 1.,” Part I, Act 111, Scene 3.
“Ford! Are you not ashamed?” —
“Merry Wives of Windsor,” Act 111,
Scene 4.
* * * *
H. Vivian Taylor, the Melbourne
architect and acoustician who has chal-
lenged the Tramways Board to give
him the chance to make Mr. Cameron s
juggernauts into a more or less silent
service, has had a varied experience as a
noise-remover. The S.A. Government
consulted him about the new wing to
Parliament House, and factories through-
out Australia have sought his advice on
quietening machines as far apart as
sewing-machines and mine-stampers. His
biggest achievement was in the crisis
that hit the film industry with the advent
of the talkies. Exhibitors were faced with
the problem of adjusting their theatres
to vocal requirements or building new
ones. Taylor applied scientific principles
to nearly 200 theatres in Australia and
Maoriland to solve their problem.
* * * *
“Noondoo”: Mrs. Langloh Parker was
mentioned in a recent Bulletin. Well
known all over s.-w. Queensland, she was
a woman of culture who from childhood
had taken a great interest in abos. She
spoke several of the local dialects and
collected into two little volumes a
number of folk tales. These were illus-
trated —and most ably, too —by a lull-
blooded abo. whom Mrs. Parker had
reared from childhood —I am ashamed to
think I have forgotten his name and lost
the books. 1 was first attracted to the
tales by their extraordinary resemblance
to those Joel Chandler Harris makes the
American negro slave tell in Uncle
Remus . Both deal entirely with the
animal world acting as humans.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: An old association in
the British shipping business is that of
the Anderson family with what is now
the Orient Line. When the Napoleonic
wars ended Alexander Anderson bought
a prize-of-war as a speculation, and en-
trusted the agency for the ship to James
Thompson and Co., a Thames concern
established in 1797. In 1828 he placed
his nephew, James Anderson, with the
Thompsons as a junior. Kenneth, son
of James, succeeded him, and is still
a director of Anderson, Green and Co.
A. G. Anderson, son of Kenneth, has
been in the business since 1921. The
Thompson interest had dropped out be-
fore the Orient Line of clipper ships
began in 1850, and the original Orient,
1032 tons, made several record voyages
to Australia. In 1878 the Anderson and
Green interests went into steam with the
second Orient, the first steamship to be
fitted with electric light, under the title of
the Orient Steam Navigation Co.
if * * *
“G.S.M.”: According to a Melbourne
reporter, who has been making records
with notebook and pencil, local drivers
have a fine scorn for the traffic regu-
lations about stopping and signalling at
street corners. Drivers of 70 vehicles
figured in his first test; none of them
observed all the provisions, only two
stopped, and the two subsequently made
a right-hand turn without giving the
appropriate signal. Another test con-
cerned 20 vehicles ; three drivers stopped
without signals, 12 “drifted” and five
crossed hell-for-leather. At a major inter-
section 17 out of 52 drivers stopped, and
only three of them bothered to signal
their intention. There has been an in-
creased ratio of accidents to traffic on all
roads since these regulations were intro-
duced two years ago.
* * * *
“J.W.”: Baffling to me is the preju-
dice in favor of imported trees. Sydney
and Melbourne are planting them by the
mile. About Canberra you find the
flowering peach of Turkey, Mexican
hedges, Chinese elms, American oaks and
north European conifers. Why not Aus-
tralian trees, which retain their leaves
through winter and have their special
periods of unsurpassed loveliness? The
richly flowering bauhinia, for example—
Brisbane has patronised it to some ex-
tent ; Westralian flowering gums and the
flame trees of Jamberoo (N.S.W.) —Aus-
tralia has several species of them. And
there are many shade trees in the scrubs
which could be acclimatised in all the
cities with advantage. But local authori-
ties prefer elms and planes, which in this
climate grow so rapidly that they have
to be butchered into clothes props after
a few years’ growth.
* * * *
“Pab D.”: One Northern Territory
product that could do with better adver-
tising is ribbonstonc. As far as I know
Anthony’s Lagoon is the only place in
Australia where good specimens are
found. Beautifully grained, with intricate
traceries of cream, pink, brown, smoky
blue and white lines, Anthony's Lagoon
ribbbonstone is hard and polishes and
wears well. It makes capital cuff-links,
brooches, paperweights and mantel orna-
ments. With finished samples exhibited
in the cities, this stone should achieve
some of the popularity of polished mulga.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Multitudinous rats to
“Mandurah” fB. 12/10/’3B) and his talk
about no supply of Australian fish for
canning! It is our “Mandurahs” who keep
back the industry by encouraging Can-
berra’s notion that colonial fish can’t be
as good as the imported kinds which earn
duties. His broad-head mullet, “de luxe
—when you can get it,” is the sea-mullet
of eastern Australian waters., and with
suitable gear you can get it in hundred-
ton lots early every winter. As for
warm-water fish being unsuitable for can-
ning, what about Mediterranean sar-
dines? Or yellow- and blue-fin tuna,
which yield California canneries a yearly
turnover of millions of pounds sterling?
The same species are plentiful off N.S.W.
and S.Q. The snapper of which he speaks
enthusiastically is also a warm-water fish.
As for the Bight being useless as a fishing-
ground, the Endeavor, nearly 30 years
ago, located thousands of square miles of
first-rate trawling-ground within 15 to
20 miles offshore from Cape Radstock
(S.A.) to Esperance Bay (W.A.), 600 and
more miles westward.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The First Prize of £3/3/- offered for this week’s Other Fellow’s Mind Competition
has been awarded to a Maorilander who sees confusion in the multitude of laws.
Every week there is a first prize of £3/3/-, in addition to A.J.A. rates —paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be
an additional prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, "The Bulletin" promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster.
The quarterly prizes of £lO will not necessarily be awarded to winners of weekly
prizes. All contributions published during the quarter will be carefully considered
again.
Close Seasons for Legislation
If the Parliaments of Australia and
Maoriland were to declare a close season
(or several of them) for new legislation
and devote the time to revising existing
laws, we’d have a saner and less costly
legal system. I don’t mean that the
party in power should tinker around with
amendments, but that Acts which have
failed to meet changed conditions or
have proved in practice only costly
bones of contention should be recon-
sidered in their entirety by Parliament,
from preamble to God Save the King.
Furthermore, in reconsidering legisla-
tion Parliament should call upon those
who have had to administer it, and those
who have had it administered to them,
to give evidence at the bar of the House
as to how such legislation has stood up
to practice. The Parliamentary passion for
amending Acts instead of scrapping them
has led to a lot of confusion and ex-
pense, much of which could also be
avoided if standard English, easily under-
stood by a voter of average intelligence,
were used instead of the involved jargon
of professional lawyers. Moses had the
right idea when he drafted the Ten Com-
mandments ; he left no loopholes for
learned counsel.— Angus (M.L.).
Three guineas, plus 2£d. a line, for
“Angus”—C. R. J. Lavery, Bell Hill, West-
land, Maoriland.
Resigned'
I think one feature of the recent war
scare is worth recording. On the day
on which, from the cables, it appeared
certain that Hitler would resort to force
I was in a Queensland town ; population,
10,000. Of all the people to whom 1
spoke and of whom I heard not one ex-
pressed the thought that there was no
need for Australia to fight. Those who
fought last time, those who would have
had to fight this time, and those who
would by no chance have had to serve,
men and women, all seemed to believe
that, if Hitler marched, Britain would
fight and, quite naturally, so would Aus-
tralia.—Admiral (Q.).
Immigrant Doctors
Many Australians are watching with
interest the struggle of their medical
men to exclude foreign competition. New
South Wales, for instance, is legislating
to prescribe a three years’ course in medi-
cine before foreign doctors shall be
allowed to practise in this State. Such a
course is certainly fair to local doctors
if their interests are to be protected. It
seems a pity, however, that it shows a
tendency to sweep aside the needs of
the public.
It seems to me that a little healthy com-
petition should be welcomed by the public
and the profession alike. It would be a
great thing to see foreign and local prac-
titioners consulting together in friendly
co-operation in the interests of suffering
humanity.
Many Australian doctors have migrated
successfully; do they deny a similar op-
portunity to their foreign confreres? —
Muriel Thomson (N.S.W.).
Time-expired Army Men
Have recently returned from India,
and while there had an opportunity of
discussing the possibilities of Australia
as a permanent home for time-expired
officers and men. Many of these would
like to settle in Australia, but have not
the time or the means to inspect our
country and conditions.
In our talks we came to the following
conclusion: There are approximately
55,000 British soldiers in India, period of
service seven years, about 10 p.c. being
repatriated annually as time-expired offi-
cers and men. The British Government
should be approached with a request for
five years’ service in India and two years
in Australia, a battalion (white officers,
men and their wives) being quartered in
or near Perth, Hobart, Adelaide, Mel-
bourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Towns-
“I’m not the boss, boay, so un needn't tremble!”
ville —say, seven battalions in all. All
pay and food and transport, etc., ex-
penses to be borne by the War Office, as
at present.
These men would be exercised by
route marches, etc., and would thus gain
a first-hand knowledge of the country
and its resources. The battalions would
have to be kept in any case by W. 0.,
either in England or elsewhere, as it is
well known that the Indian Congress
intends replacing them with native regi-
ments.
The advantages to Australia would be
the possibility of obtaining 500 of the
best settlers every year, the time-expired
men; a considerable help in the war that
may come ; employment for about 15,000
men one man at work keeps about
three others going; and the financial ad-
vantages would be considerable.
The divisions would be under the con-
trol of W. 0., not the Commonwealth
Government. This received warm sup-
port from officers and men consulted. —
Linco (N.S.W.).
Dealing with V.D.
Considering all the talk one hears of
doing away with false modesty and of
the frank treatment of sex, it beats me
why very few countries have thought of
applying this freer trend of modern
thought to the treatment of syphilis. So
far, I have read nothing in Australian
papers of the great American experiment
to stamp out this scourge, although
periodicals as reputable as the “Ladies’
Home Journal” have thought the cause
worthy of support and advocated a
voters’ campaign of politicians to get a
bill through Congress.
A test of public opinion on the sub-
ject was put to half a million Chicago
, property-owners in the following words:
In strict confidence and at no expense
to you, would you like to be given, by your
own physician, a blood test for syphilis?
A larger percentage of replies than is
usual for such circularisations was re-
ceived, and 95 out of every 100 said
“Yes.” In the result a large sum
was appropriated for syphilis treatment
and the setting-up of public blood-test
centres. The Chicago idea has now been
copied all over the States, and the ex-
perts say that if such an enthusiastic
attack were general and prolonged over
a period of ten years the disease would
be practically non-existent.
It looks as if the Yanks, reviled for
swing music, sex magazines and salacious
movies, have given us a lead. — Saibai
(Q-).
There IS a National Outlook
Anybody reading the last two pages of
The Bulletin in recent weeks couldn’t
fail to see it. Don’t know any circula-
tion figures, but I should say these
“0.F.M.” items represent 200,000 Aus-
tralians and Maorilanders in all walks of
life, from retired company directors to
practising charladies. It’s changed views
I held about the mass mind, especially
when I realise that but few of the con-
tributions see the light. Australians can
think for and express themselves. Out-
standing features of published contribu-
tions are: General sympathy with the
underdog, national awareness that many
aspects of national life need revision and
correction, a plea for better understand-
ing with the other fellow, hunger for im-
proved educational facilities, ability to
view public questions nationally. I hope
our politicians are filing these Australasian
opinions for future study and reference.
There’s food for deep thought in every
line of ’em. — The O.D. (N.S.W.).
Co-operative Farms
The idea is that a group of young men
who aspire to make a living on the land
could do more by working together than
by carrying on individually.
The struggle of one man trying to
work a farm is too much and has too
little reward —definitely not the basic
wage for the average farmer. By
a group of 20 working together, with the
very latest in machinery, it would be pos-
sible not only for each man to have an
income to look forward to every year,
but each could also have leisure time,
which the average farmer does not
obtain.
I am speaking of crop-farming,
especially wheat, as the idea could
hardly be applied to dairy-farming. If
there were four tractors among the 20
men they should be able to work the
sowing and harvesting of crops to the
benefit of all concerned. In spare time—
and there should be plenty of it —the
group would build permanent homes to
take the place of their temporary ones.
Everything should be done with one
idea in mind. Progress for the group
above all individuals. It could be accom-
plished with the Government supporting
the group for the first 12 months, the
group to repay the Government from
first profits.
I am not advocating the group-settle-
ment idea, the plaything of politicians,
but am trying to discover a group of
Australians who still have sufficient
initiative to battle for their own advance-
ment in a world that is gradually elimi-
nating rugged individualism.—Restora-
tion (N.Q.).
Wages and the Birthrate
The time is about due for a review of
the conditions governing the basic wage.
Planned to cover the needs of a man,
his wife and three children, it encour-
ages childless and one-child marriages
while a larger birthrate is needed.
My suggestion is: Cut the wage to
cover man, wife and one child (this
would give the single man a margin for
saving to marry). Adjust all awards in
proportion, compel employers to fix
weekly in wages-book stamps to cover
the difference between the present and
the new wages. Use the money so
gained for child endowment, to be paid
subject to the following conditions:
Deduct basic wage from total income.
Pay sufficient endowment to raise the re-
mainder to £25 per year per child (exclusive
of first child).
For example, if a man earns £250 and
basic wage is £l5O, the remainder, £lOO,
would be enough to cover four children,
apart from the first. If he has six
children, pay him an extra £25 a year.
Use income-tax returns for calculating
amount due, and pay until child leaves
school.
Also, tax married couples with no
children ten years after marriage, and
single men over 35, using the money to
provide domestic help for the woman
with several children. Many women say
they would have more children if they
knew they could get help in the house
while the kiddies were small. —R. G. P.
(Q.).
Reading Difficulties Outback
City libraries and Governments still
have very little compassion for the out-
back dweller. Even his reading is taxed
to the utmost, and it is his only relaxa-
tion. A family outback joins, say, a
Sydney library at £4 to £5 a year (eight
to ten books). The railage is Bd. to
Is. 2d. a parcel of four to five books
each way. There is generally a parcel
coming and going if one is not to be left
without books. Add to this coach rates
from the railway at Is. a parcel, and you
have the yearly subscription more than
doubled.
Then take into consideration the dud
books that come when the library can’t
comply with one’s requests, and you
have a sad, bad case for the country
book-lover.—V. R. (N.S.W.).
Drifting Sand
Drfting sand causes a lot of trouble
in some Sydney districts. On Rottnest
Island, W.A., the lace-flower or Rottnest
daisy has been grown successfully on
sand after extensive clearing operations
had bared the hills. Sand dunes that
were bare twelve months ago are now
thickly green. The plants grow several
feet high on a central stem, and the
roots are superficial, so that should they
prove a pest they could be easily eradi-
cated by hand.
For several months of the year they
bear beautiful double blossoms up to
3in. across in all shades of blue and
purple. On Rottnest the plants can be
counted by the million, and they are so
thick on the hills that the blooms knock
their heads together.
At my suggestion the lace-flower is
being grown at Maroubra, Sydney, as an
experiment. I forwarded a large tin of
seeds, together with a description of the
growing conditions and a proposal that,
if they grew, they be tried on the sand
dunes behind the beach. If they succeed
at Maroubra, other places might profit.
—Quokka (W.A.).
Creating Employment
“W.H.W.’s” complaint about “extrava-
gance” (B. 5/10/’3B) is suffering from
dry-rot. Take his first —tinning tobacco
and cigarettes. You can buy a 2oz. tin
of a certain brand of imported smoke-
oh for Is. lid. If you buy it loose from
a tobacconist, who imports it in 21b.
tins, it costs 2s. 2d. for 2oz. in a paper
bag. A tin of cigarettes, 50’s, is no
dearer than 50 loose —I’ve tried it.
An empty cigarette carton is of no
use, but is a nuisance unless you own a
goat. An empty cigarette- or tobacco-
tin is handy for storing the buttons that
you shed from your clothes, pins, stamps,
etc.; and it makes a good money-box for
hiding from the wife what you won at
o Continued on next page.)


the races. So that’s a real saving, not an
extravagance. Secondly, you can have
your milk delivered in cartons instead
of bottles —the cost is the same in both
cases, with the advantage that the bottle
is returnable. Here’s another saving, not
an extravagance. Bottle-making em-
ploys thousands of youths who would
otherwise be on the dole and keeps hun-
dreds of others employed collecting
“dead marines.” Again, an empty bottle
is Australia’s first line of offence and
defence in a two-to-one argument.
Regarding three-color magazines,
what’s wrong with the “Australian
Woman’s Mirror”? Doesn’t “W.H.W.”
like its colored topcoat? I do. Every
“extravagance” he mentions creates em-
ployment.
If we could only “bottle” or “tin” our
politicians, how happy we would be, and
the overwhelming consensus of opinion
would be: Damn the “extravagance”!
Aussie (N.S.W.).
Industrial Amity
When will all bosses realise that it pays
to have contented workmen? Some
realise it now, and provide as good work-
ing conditions as possible, decent lunch-
rooms and scrupulously just managers
and foremen. But there are still others.
Many of the strikes for higher
wages or shorter hours would never
materialise if personal friction between
employer and employed was eliminated,
and much better work would be done
into the bargain.
It is obviously impossible for the head
of a big industrial undertaking, to take
a personal interest in his employees indi-
vidually, but he can show some regard
for their feelings collectively. Even the
most poorly educated workman appreci-
ates ordinary courtesy and concern for
his welfare, and the sooner this is
recognised the sooner we shall approach
industry’s dream of A 1 workmanship
and a discarded strike complex.—T. L. W.
(Vic.).
Charcoal Gas
In B. 21/9/’3B D. E. Penny suggested the
use of wood for power purposes. It may
interest him to know that trucks and
tractors using wood charcoal (which
can be made from firewood by any
farmer) can be got on the Australian
market —from Howard in Sydney,
Wishart in Melbourne and Powell in
W.A. These vehicles will run at a third
the fuel cost of petrol, with charcoal at
£3 per ton (Melbourne price). There is
no reason why charcoal should not be
made in the country for 30s. a ton (about
three tons wood to one ton charcoal).
In England I myself drove a six-
ton producer-gas truck, which was as
easy to handle as a petrol truck, and gave
as good a performance. This type of
vehicle is common in Germany, France,
Italy, Rhodesia and, according to a
recent press comment, has been exten-
sively adopted for bus service in Tokio.
I believe that the general adoption of the
producer-gas-fired truck and tractor in
districts where firewood is fairly plenti-
ful would mean enormous savings for
the farming community of Australia.
The Electricity Commission in Queens-
land has reported to the effect that wood
or coal in gas-producers should be the
fuel for small electricity-generating sta-
tions in the State. — lan McC. Stewart
(Q-).
This Palestine Business
In 1917 Liman von Sanders and Mus-
tafa Kemal led the ragged Turkish
army out of Palestine without even a
pitched battle with the British. “Bull”
Allenby entered Jerusalem on foot, fol-
lowed by the A.L.H. ; and there was
much joyful twittering at the prophetic
significance of it all.
The Turkish dictator has evinced no
interest in the place since ; and events
have justified him. Palestine has been
and will always be a heavy liability to its
rulers, and the sooner the British, with as
little loss of dignity as possible, get out
the better. Mandate or no, it is not
Britain’s business to fight the Arabs to
restore Palestine to the Jews. The Bal-
four Declaration must be scrapped, and
Lawrence’s prior promises, made to the
Arabs in times of stress, honored.
What’s the matter with the Jews? Is
wailing to be the only manifestation of
their national spirit? If they want a
national home for their refugees, why
can’t they fight for it themselves instead
of expecting others to do so for them?
They are numerous. enough, and make
good soldiers. Or, if this doesn’t appeal,
why not buy one? The Jews throughout
the world must be wealthy enough to
buy a continent without feeling the
pinch. Surely it is they who should be
the first to help those of their own blood!
—T. E. P. (N.S.W.).
“Work for the Navy”
“Aerogenes” (B. 28/9/’3B) should
have been in the vicinity of Flinders
Naval Depot (Vic.) on that fateful last
Wednesday in September. The streets
of the little township of Crib Point,
which adjoins the depot and where the sea-
men’s families reside, were full of weep-
ing women whose husbands had been
sent on draft at a moment’s notice. There
was no fuss, and certainly no “fooling”
—not even the “sadness of farewell.”
Had he also been at the Agricultural
Show on that day he would have heard
the broadcast for the Crib Point physi-
cian, who had taken the day off, and who
was urgently needed to attend to wives
in a state of health where shock was a
serious matter.
Before the week-end ships were on the
way to the north and to the west of Aus-
tralia. The navy certainly attends race-
meetings and shows; so also do the
army and the air force, the politicians
and various other Government servants,
so why should the navy be specially criti-
cised? Would its men advertise their
knowledge and the charts of northern
waters? Would a private secretary ad-
vertise his employer’s business? Not if
he thought anything of his job, “Aero-
genes.”—Clothilde (Vic.).
Migration the Wrong Way Round
The usual practice for Australian
authorities on the rare occasions when
they tackle the question of migration is
to bring out a batch of people and then
try to place them. It seems to me that if
we are to tackle migration systematically,
and it is essential that we should, we
shall have to start from the bottom and
work up. By using local-government
bodies as a basis of organisation, the
needs of every district could be ascer-
tained, requisitions made and migrants
brought out and placed without disturb-
ing the harmony of Australia’s industrial
life.
In my district there are big openings
for competent share dairy-farmers who
could earn up to £lO a week. Graziers
with heavily-developed pasture lands are
turning to cattle owing to the prevalence
of footrot in sheep. They find extreme
difficulty in getting men, or, rather, fami-
lies, with any adequate knowledge of
their job. Surely it would not be im-
possible to arrange that requisitions be
placed with a local secretary and for-
warded to a central State authority, which
would then arrange for the importation
of experts in the desired line. This would
apply not only to farming, but to other
branches of industry. Servant girls and
farmhands would, of course, be in
regular demand. With proper organisa-
tion the scheme should flourish and a
regular flow of pre-placed migrants be
assured.—N. V. W. (S.A.).
Fish-canning
Here’s the principal reason why fish-
canning so far has invariably failed ; it
was told to me by a retired Old-Country
canner. It’s a lack of oil. Perhaps only
one fish in Australian waters, plentiful
enough to make its canning profitable,
contains sufficient oil for its own preser-
vation in a condition of inviting patat-
ability. That fish is the mullet. Others,
in the main, are too dry. But this oil
deficiency could be remedied —if we had
the oil.
In parts of W.A. olives grow wild ; and
olive-trees are prime moisture con-
servers. France learned that long ago
in the wheat areas of Algeria, where
windbreaks around the fields invariably
are of olives. Thus the Algerian farmer
reaps a double harvest. True, the olive'
takes seven years to come into bearing.
But what is seven years in the life of a
tree that perhaps will continue bearing
for upwards of a century? Olive oil in
Perth (W.A.) sells at 15s. a gallon. Aus-
tralian linseed oil sells at 6s. The pro-
cess of extraction is much the same with
both oils. There should be ample profit
in growing and extracting olive oil, and
canning fish with it. —W; C. C. (W;A.).
The Menace of Radio
The greatest menace to Australian
literature, art and other forms of culture
is commercial radio as at present con-
ducted. Allegedly giving free entertain-
ment, B stations really extract a pay-
ment of about a million pounds per
annum from the public—paid per
medium of advertisements. In return
they ladle out sludge. The million rep-
resents money that otherwise would have
gone to newspapers and magazines—
which in other days gave a crust, albeit
a poor enough one, to Australian writers
and artists. Most of these magazines
now have gone, driven out of existence
by syndicated and canned radio enter-
tainment, factory-produced, cheap as
dirt.
In the face .of this deluge, reading has
become almost a lost art; why buy a
book or a paper when the intelligence
can be drugged merely by turning a dial?
Papers still survive, but nearly all use
overseas syndicated matter, pleading that
radio competition, by continually filch-
ing readers and ads., forces them to such
a course ; matter from local writers, even
when they willingly work at starvation
rates, is too dear.
Thirty, forty years ago, Australia dis-
played more national sentiment and
afforded a better livelihood to her writers
and artists. And not only do writers
suffer, but printers and others are thrown
into unemployment. Britain, perhaps un-
consciously, has been wiser; she permits
no commercial radio by sheer cheapness
to destroy the livelihood of writers and
artists. —W. Charnley (W.A.).
An A.B.C. News Service
An effective check on cabled “news”
would be the establishment of an over-
seas service by A.B.C.
There must be numerous Australian
journalists capable of obtaining trust-
worthy news at European and Asiatic
centres of interest. Those chosen might
be engaged on this basis: good salaries
for good work ; the sack for furphies.—
C. F. Wordsworth (Q.).
Water Conservation
It takes water to make rain. Vapor
from lakes, rivers and swamps is drawn
up into the atmosphere by the heat of
the sun. This is Nature’s way of provid-
ing rain for the earth. But over hun-
dreds of thousands of miles of country
there are no great places of moisture ; the
sun can’t draw vapor out of dry river-
beds and cracked black-soil plains, so the
result is a poor and unreliable rainfall.
Dr. Bradfield should know what he
is talking about. In .his scheme sub-
mitted to the Queensland Government he
suggests the impounding of coastal rivers,
diverting the waters through the Dividing
Range and into the inland rivers. Just
think of that, you Western Queens-
landers! Permanent water from north
of Hughenden to somewhere down near
the N.S.W. border.
Dr. Bradfield estimates cost of his
scheme at £30,000,000, so it’s a million
to one chance against anything being
done about it. But even such a sum
is little enough when one thinks of
the benefits to the irrigated areas and
Australia as a whole. Increase in rain-
fall, untold savings in money and stock
and the elimination, or partial elimina-
tion, of the unemployment problem. Go
to it, Dr. Bradfield! — Jackeroo (Q.).
Advertising Wool
Why shouldn’t Australia advertise its
wool per film? Couldn’t shorts be made of
all the different stages of the wool, from
the sheep’s back to the finished article?
There could be yarding, drafting, count-
ing and all the other countless jobs that
go on outside the shed. Then the shear-
ing, piece-picking, classing and pressing
and so on, until the wool is the finished
article, made in our own mills. — Arthur
B. Jillett (Q.).
High Cost of Printed Acts
It is time something was done to
reduce the costs of all Acts of Parliament.
The National Insurance Act costs 2s.
3d. A booklet as big as the Act is given
free. I jibbed at the Act, but took the
booklet. For a copy of the Crimes Act
you pay 4s. 6d.
In my opinion no Act of Parliament
should be sold to the citizens. They
should be entitled to a free copy of every
Act passed by State and Federal Parlia-
ments. There may be objections as
regards cost. But Governments, when
faced with the task of providing free
copies, would think twice about enacting
one-half of the present legislation, and
probably only a small fraction of it
would go oii the Statute Book, to the
benefit of all concerned.
If it is desired to make a charge, one
shilling is the full value of each printed
Act, and no Act should be sold above
this figure.—R. Briears (N.S.W.).
Let’s Start at Home
Amid so much conflicting opinion of Mr.
Chamberlain, I, as the mother of a son
approaching manhood and the wife of
an Anzac, wish to say how grateful I
am for the untiring efforts made by that
gentleman to avert a world disaster.
Each of the world leaders concerned
(including acted according to the
best principles of mankind as far as we
can judge, and deserves at least the
tolerance of everyone.
With such marvellous facilities for
swift communication available, there
should be a growing sense of brother-
hood and unity between nations. Eco-
nomically we are largely dependent on
each other, and the time is fast approach-
ing when we must manifest true fellow-
ship or stir up unthinkable chaos, end-
ing possibly in civilisation’s annihilation.
The whole world wants peace, but in-
dividually we must work for it. Good-
will towards men must start right in our
own homes and extend to our neighbor,
even if he annoys at times. How can
we stop criticising other countries if we
don’t first check unkind thoughts about
the man across the street?
Thoughts of enmity in the individual
experience multiply into war thoughts
collectively, if not replaced by thoughts
of tolerance, understanding and kind-
ness. —M. McDonald (N.S.W.).
Eve Again
All over the world to-day women are
harping on their “rights,” demanding
“freedom from drudgery” and “equality
of the sexes.” They consider that they
have reached an exalted and enlightened
state of mind wherein they can no longer
bear to be cooped up all day worrying
over the trifling affairs of a household.
And the birthrate continues to fall.
The emancipated women occupying
men’s positions are much too busy, and
cannot spare the time to bear children
and “bring them up” properly ; besides,
in social circles, one misses such a lot of
fun —“the best years of a woman’s life”
—and it ruins the figure.
These modern women, without sacri-
ficing any of their rights and privileges,
might well take a leaf out of their great-
grandmothers’ book—selflessness was a
common virtue in those days.
In this country in particular there
are many people who argue that they are
more than willing to have large families
only they can’t afford it. It is the old
story about taxation and cost of living.
But this is a democratic country, with
government by the people for the people ;
and one thing which rather closely con-
cerns the people would seem to be pos-
terity.—Critical Minor (N.S.W.).
Australian History
Have just read “Australis’s” (B.
5/10/ ’3B) eloquent urging of Australian
history on our defenceless kids. I’m
near enough to my own schooldays to
remember with what aversion we greeted
a lesson on the antecedents of our native
land. We could, as he says, quote for
you the names of the Kings of England,
because they were colorful characters,
with a background (most of them) of
battle, murder and sudden death, which
is an attraction to children of all ages —
vide the daily press.
But Sturt, Wentworth and Hume?
No glamor. Only dust, flies and bullock-
wagons. Teach the kids about Governor
Bligh being chased through the corridors
of Government House ; give ’em the tor-
ture chambers of Port Arthur ; bring in
burnings, riots and floggings, and watch
the marks take a jump. That’s what his-
torians have done to history since it was
carved on granite, and that’s why ancient
history has twice the attraction of the
local article. The trouble with Austra-
lian history is that there have never been
any decent wars; not at home, anyway.
The abos. couldn’t put up a fight, and
even at stunts like the Eureka Stockade
the gallonage of gore has been very
paltry.
I would suggest that all records
of Australian history be burned, and a
committee of, say, P. C. Wren, Zane
Grey and Rafael Sabatini be appointed
to produce a ready-made set of traditions
and battle dates. Then watch the kids
lap it up! — Cutlass (N.S.W.).
Territory Administrators
There is something wrong with the
method of appointing Administrators.
Australia is responsible for Papua, the
Mandated Territory, Norfolk Island,
Nauru and, of course, the N.T. During
the past four years, with the exception
of Papua, they have had new Adminis-
trators, the latest appointment being to
Nauru. In every instance the office has
been given to an old soldier or an ex-
politician.
Australia has always employed a corps
of trained men for administrative posts,
and it is not creditable that not one of
them has been selected for the top posi-
tion when a vacancy has occurred. To
see their claims continually passed over
by Canberra in favor of outsiders must
be very disheartening.—G. S. Shepherd
(S.A.).


AT LAST LONDON SPECIALIST REVEALS
AMAZING HAIR DISCOVERY!
:3m
■m
I
:*
m
Stupendous Results in Australia
of this Unusual New Treatment!
>2162 SUCCESSFUL CASES TREATED
FOR HAIR TROUBLES SINCE JANUARY
CTILL they come, letters, letters and letters, hundreds and
hundreds of wonderful reports rolling in daily from all
parts of Australia from men and women in all stages of this
wonderful treatment, some who were completely bald, others
with hair receding at the temples, thin on the crown, and with
bald patches, and yet others suffering from “snowstorm dan-
druff,” scurf, greasiness, falling hair, and many of the other
varied scalp disorders, but all more than delighted with the
benefits derived, and they all tried this treatment without
RISKING ONE PENNY—on an absolute trial basis! Now it’s
your turn, here is your opportunity to use this treatment in
your own home.
. . . . TEST THIS TREATMENT
YOURSELF WITHOUT RISKING
A PENNY !
[he Murchison Method is the only proven
method in the world to be offered to the men
and women of Australia for their approval.
It is without doubt the most remarkable method
ever publicly offered to readers of any paper.
You can try it yourself if you send the coupon
quickly!
ONLY 2000 TREATMENTS ON
TRIAL DISTRIBUTION
2000
ONLY
TRIAL TREATMENTS
TO BE DISTRIBUTED!
gALDNESS is not inevitable, nor a necessary
consequence of advancing years. It is
NATURAL to have a head of good healthy
hair. It has been proved (some of the letters
below speak for themselves) in many striking
cases that even when baldness, falling hair,
dandruff, etc., are far advanced they will, in
many cases, yield to suitable treatment. This
month, to every man and woman in Australia
who would remedy their hair trouble, here is
the chance of a lifetime to use the Murchison
Method without financial risk; surely this is
proof positive of the confidence we have in
this great Treatment—but hurry, 2000 treat-
ments only are for Trial Distribution in
Australia—the moment the last one goes you
will be too late. Hurry coupon for
particulars.
y:
Dormant hair root. The
papilla is no longer
giving sufficient nourish-
ment to the hair bulb.
Ordinary measures fail
to improve condition of
undernourished papilla:.
a.'
3*
Hair root takes on new
strength and vitality to
function normally after
the J. Kelso Murchison
treatment.
TEST IT YOURSELF NOW!
Now you can test it yourself—try this famous treatment in your
own home—under any condition you like, and if it doesn’t grow new
hair, rid you of dandruff or any other hair trouble you suffer from,
within 30 days it COSTS YOU NOTHING!—not a penny! But you
must hurry; this offer may never be repeated. It places you under
no obligation; all you have to do is to post that coupon NOW!
What Murchison
Discovered About Hair
It does not matter if your hair
is falling out, if you are fast going
bald—or what you have tried. You
have not used the RIGHT method.
Murchison’s own hair fell out in
handfuls until he fast began to go
bald. He tried everything, but
now has a thick, lustrous growth
of hair—thanks to an important
discovery.
A New System To
Remedy Baldness
There is one underlying prin-
ciple that stimulates new hair
growth—that principle is involved
in the New Kelso Murchison Treat-
ment. ' It’s a new way—entirely
different, and successful. It
approaches baldness, falling hair,
etc., from a new angle. With it
you can stop your hair troubles
overnight!
“Don’t waste more time and
money on worthless ’tonics' and
‘hair restorers,’ but accept my
great offer and watch your hair
grow! Get this special offer
coupon in the post TO-DAY!”
HERE IS GENUINE
POSITIVE PROOF
FROM ALL OVER
NEW ZEALAND*
ONCE ALMOST BALD—NOW
HEALTHY HAIR.
“Six Weeks ago I received your Hair
Culture Course. At that time my Hair
was very poor. I was almost bald at the
crown and temples. After using your treat-
ment for two weeks my hair began to show
new life. To-day, my hair is as healthy
as it is possible to be, and the thin parts
are filling in rapidly. It will give me great
pleasure in telling others about your treat-
ment.”—F. J. CONNOLLY, 8., N.Z.
DANDRUFF AND SCALP
IRRITATION GONE!
“I have tried your treatment for a month
and have found it to be all you say it is.
My hair to-day is in better condition than
it has been for years. All traces of dan-
druff arid scalp irritation have disappeared.”
—S. J. PAGE, A.. N.Z.
HAIR BEGINNING TO GROW.
“Results are quite satisfactory. New
hair is beginning to grow on the thin,
sparsely-covered space, and altogether my
hair looks much better and healthier.”
—G. B. ESDA.TLLE, A., N.Z.
YOUNG HAIR COMING ON
FOREHEAD.
“I am pleased to be able to inform you
that I am quite satisfied with the treatment.
There is absolutely no trace of dandruff on
my scalp, and young hair is coming round
my forehead, so I should have a splendid
head of hair in another few months.”
—L. F. MOONEY, T.. N.Z.
■ '
-
' •
m
< ®-
mm
mm
it
Part of The Mur-
chison Laboratories,
8 The Broadway,
London, W. 6. From
here hundreds and
hundreds of Treat-
ments are sent to
sufferers from hair
maladies.
Section of Despatch
and Mailing Offices,
Sydney Branch.
Cases from all parts
of Australia and
New Zealand are
treated from here.
This is part of the
general offices. If
you would banish
your hair troubles
quickly and easily,
then here and now
is your great oppor-
tunity—p os t the
coupon this moment.
30 DAYS' TRIAL COUPON
J. KELSO MURCHISON,
Dept. L., Lombard Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
26/1 0 /’ 3 8
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
n
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
GIVE AUSTRALIAN BOOKS FOR XMAS
A STOCKTAKING BARGAIN
ORIGINALLY PRICED AT 5/- & 6/- EACH
NOW ANY FOUR FOR 5/-
Giving Amber Her Chance
The World Is Yours
Stories by “Kodak"
Pearls of Papua
Blue North
Jungfrau
Karangi
•>V“'
a ,** ■
# s - ..*•
••■ A s VvC 6 0,vi v 0<
.*• ./s{ ?<*l
vo -V^S'iV 4 '
• c ,.»orVf


nAOuxton
ALL" AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTS
CUi^oiaUxin7ahmehi
* WARATAH
STEEL FENCING WIRE
BLACK OR GALVANIZED
WARATAU
TMOvi IfleX&ituL
RUNS OUT STRAIGHT AND FLAT JF
““WARATAH"
BARBED WIRE
FOR STRENGTH AND DURABILITY
'"WAR AT AH"
StaeJt
LIGHT AND STRONG §
WAflATAfri
HINGED JOINT FENG
STAYS TAUT AND FIRM
WAR AT AH
MOTOR BY-PASS
THE EVER OPEN GATE
%daMdjb Jhfcmd. buimd.
g*
MADE FROM
B.H.R
NEWCASTLE STEEL
m ■'
■■■■•
■mm
Mi
M
&
as
i »:
' ■
fli
'9g&MOM
m
mm
m
XX
IjHMpR
S\
<
m
i'i
t
m
A
ga^.
si*^§l™§?Ks,~
MMi
:
:■'
* V r
mlM
mi
US
Mi
AN INVITATION 15 EXTENDED TO CUSTOMERS TO VISIT DUR WDRKS AT NEWCASTLE
RYLRNDS BROS. (RUST.) PTY. LTD.
WDRKS ■ NEWCASTLE N.5.W.
HERD OFFICE • 422 LITTLE COLLINS ST.,MELBOURNE.
