

k
9
:
1
IM.
m
... . 1U
. ..... ‘
. ... J
■m-
V-»
m
v
■
W'S;
■ 4
m
I
1
I'li
11-
If;
i
K
FINEST VALUES!
Six-20 and Six-16
Kodak Juniors —the
cameras of distinc-
tion. An invest-
ment that will re-
pay hundredfold in
clear bright snaps.
See them. From
39/9
SIX-20 BROWNIES
What more seasonable
thought than one of
these smart modern-
istic Brownies! That
they’re better picture-
makers than ever goes
without saying. From
®L»
Iff
Ko!&
m
m
FREE!
New Book-
let “SUC-
CESS WITH
YOUR
PICTURES”
Write for
your copy.
FREE!
POST THE COUPON
[ ] KODAK GIFT BOOKLET
[ ] KODAK FILM SNAPSHOT GUIDE
NAME
ADDRESS
Only 28 f 6
JIFFY KODAK. Goes
into picture action in
a jiffy. Simplest fold-
ing model ever de-
vised. See also the
streamlined BULLET
KODAK at 12/6.
SIX - 20 DUO
Superb photographic
craftsmanship. With Body
Release and fourteen
other features. 16-exp.
No. F 620 Film. Modern
chromium finish. Prices:
£B/10/-, £lO/10/-,
£ll/10/-
RETINA I and II
Lowest-priced. 36-exp.,
35mm. camera ! Auto-
matic film centring and
counting. With f/3.5
Xenar Lens, £lO/10/-,
£l2. RETINA II: With
built-in coupled range
finder. With f/2 Anast.
Lens. Price, £27/10/-.
CHRISTMAS HOME MOVIES
Nothing adds gaiety to the season's festivities like Kodak Home Movies. They
capture the colour and action of any scene, ready to spring to life again
whenever you wish. Let us demonstrate. Prices from £ll/19/6
Of all Kodak Dealers and KODAK (Aus-
tralasia) PTY., LTD • y Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Launceston, Toowoomba, Townsville,
Rockhampton, Ballarat, Newcastle. Cairns. And KODAK NEW
ZEALAND, LIMITED, Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin, Christ-
church.
The Bulletin
CHRISTMAS NUMBER
Vol. 59.—N0. 3069.
Wednesday, December 7, 1938;
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S ILLUSTRATED CHRISTMAS
CATALOGUE
of Books and Stationery will be forwarded to
any address post free on application to
Dymock’s Book Arcade, Ltd.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
MANKIND IN THE MAELSTROM.
As a remarkable wind-up to this year’s astrono-
mical welter of books concerned with humorless dis-
cussion of trivialities of the passing present, an Aus-
tralian edition has been published by Angus and
Robertson of the Gifford Lectures given by W.
Macneile Dixon at Glasgow University, 1935-37.
Issued under the title The Human Situation, it is in
that welter an event —the work of a fine mind, pro-
found as to theme, but lightened with sharp wit and
breezy humor to be as readable as a book of adven-
ture, which, in its way, it is.
Its author takes for his starting point a general
conclusion from which there will be no dissent—that
these present times are more than remarkable, they
are revolutionary ; that, through recent enormous in-
crease of knowledge, a revolution is at hand—we are
in the midst of it—beside which the revolutions of his-
tory, or wars and world-wide conflagrations, will in
times to come be seen as ephemeral incidents.
Within the span of a single lifetime all the old
conceptions, the previous beliefs in science, in religion,
in politics, have been wholly transformed. The new
psychology, a mere stripling, hardly of age, has yet
penetrated to a region, a basement below the level
of conscious thought, which can never again be over-
looked. We are only in the vestibule of this inquiry.
The exploration of these uncharted depths, these
psychic gulfs and currents, will occupy generations
ahead.
But the plain man, though thus surrounded by
‘‘specialists the most brilliant in every branch of human
inquiry,” knows not where to look for a conspectus, a
unifying creed, and is plunged in a sea of perplexity.
Out, then, on this maelstrom, undeterred, launches
this intrepid seeker, bent on nothing less than
charting and setting forth the “undisputed and indis-
putable facts of the human situation,” the circum-
stances in which we actually find ourselves. Like
Montaigne, he enlivens the way with scraps and tags
of bright and apt quotation, with oddities drawn from
humanity’s, nature’s, science’s, literature’s curiosa.
He comes to an end in calm, if dark, waters, passing
down from his point of vantage on the poop the news
that landfall has been made with a fair prospect of
Life Hereafter.
Though too keen an observer to harbor any
impossibly idealistic conception of human nature, he
is no despiser of mankind. He holds that man is
worthy of a higher place than that to which he has
been relegated. Time was when man’s presence on
the earth gave it dignity amid the heavenly host, when
he was assigned great place in the hierarchy of
creation. We have changed all that. Now he comes
last instead of first. We are made or marred by too
much chlorine, too much or too little sulphur. Carbon,
hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen or their combinations under
colloidal conditions —there, in the prevailing fashion of
thought, you have the whole history, a complete ac-
count, of mankind. In them are to be found the spirit
of Plato and of Shakspeare, the brain of Newton and
Beethoven, the hopes and fears and affections, the
saints and heroes, the wars and civilisations, the re-
ligions and sciences, the cathedrals and the poems and
the pictures.
Towards some such conclusions as those, this
seeker feels, the finger of modern knowledge seems
to point. We are, it seems, merely creatures among
innumerable other creatures, tribes beyond enumera-
tion, from bacilli to elephants, inhabiting for a
moment the wrinkled surface of a burnt-out star. In
his view mankind is not to be dismissed in any such
fashion. “What a thing is man!” needs putting as a
question as well as an exclamation; and men them-
selves must provide the answer—men as they go
about the world, and there reveal, naked and undis-
guised, the character of their species, in its motions,
manners and actions.
This guide through the maelstrom of the human
situation is astonished at the remoteness of philo-
sophers from the world in which they live. Have the
motives and aims of men and women ever resembled
those of our study thinkers? Have these speculators,
sitting above the clouds, at any time seen jealousy,
envy, hatred and revenge at work?
They should, he suggests, thumb the leaves of the
historical record. They should have cultivated the ac-
quaintance of plotters and revolutionaries, of angry
souls in underground dwellings. They would write
more convincingly if they had consorted, even in
imagination, with cave-dwellers, and lake-dwellers,
and tree-dwellers, talked with buffoons, and mounte-
banks, and charlatans, with sadists, and pimps, and
procurers, as well as with priests, prophets and pro-
fessors. They might have learnt something from the
cynics as well as the logicians, from vikings as well
as Christians, from corsairs and courtesans as well as
from philanthropists, from berserker fighters, stark
men.
When the theorists who overlook all these set out
to construct their Utopias he wonders where they will
find the men and women willing to inhabit them. For
his own part, he accepts humanity as it is ; the pageant
of human life has a great, if gloomy, magnificence.
With no friends save his own indomitable spirit,
man has made his way through the long centuries.
Distressed, defeated, deceived, he continues to under-
take his forlorn hopes and pursue his fantastic loyal-
ties. Bring every kind of man and acts of man into
the purview. Include such as Ivan the Terrible, who
sat on the throne of Russia in the sixteenth century,
did much for the arts and commerce of his country,
and took delight in torture, consigning to slaughter in
one day fifteen thousand of his own subjects, with
every species of malignant cruelty.
Come up to date, and include the account of
the massacres of the civilian population in Belgium
in the early days of the Great War. Include Lenin,
the modern leader of mankind, who, according to
Sarolea’s Impressions of Soviet Russia, directed the
killing of 28 bishops, 1219 priests, 6000 professors and
teachers, 9000 doctors, 54,000 officers, 260,000 sol-
diers, 70,000 policemen, 355,250 intellectuals and pro-
fessional men, 193,000 workers, 815,000 peasants —
that is, about 1,750,000 executed or massacred at the
instigation of one man of our own times, revered as
the saviour of his country, his tomb visited by multi-
tudes of pilgrims, as if it were that of a saint.
Count these in, and others like them of inexhaust-
ible record. And do not hold this to be past history ;
it is the world as it is. Count in, as this inquirer
would no doubt have done, the latest resort to bar-
barism in Germany; the massacres and all the hor-
rible rest of the sacking of Shanghai. All the enormi-
ties are not of ancient date, nor the worst of them.
The last 50 or 60 years have been as rich in assas-
sinations of public meh as any in the past. Fourteen
kings and ruling princes, six Presidents —of the United
States, France and other countries —besides many
viceroys, Prime Ministers and Ministers.
Count in, too, other records of this aspect of
the human scene. There were 12,000 murders in the
United States in the year 1930. What of motors slay-
ing or wounding in the streets and roads for no reason
and in no one’s interest, not men only, but women
and children in tens, in hundreds of thousands! There
have been thousands on thousands of children killed
in this way since that war which everyone depre-
cates ; but about this war without declaration of war,
this hideous slaughter of the roads, even professed
humanitarians maintain a marvellous placidity. Is it,
then, that moral sense must give way to convenience?
All this is part of the human situation as it is.
Count it in. Even so, think of mankind as a whole,
now and throughout history, and, he submits, your
wonder and admiration will drown your censures.
Who but men have crossed, sounded and charted the
oceans, explored the Arctic and Antarctic poles, con-
quered sea and air, constructed great scientific and
philosophical systems, built temples and cathedrals,
written poems, dramas and romances, composed music,
carved statues, painted pictures, constructed machinery,
harnessed the unseen powers of nature, invented medi-
cine and surgery? And has all this been done by saints
and ascetics? Have the roughriders, the vagabonds,
the reckless ragamuffins not had a hand in it, and
should it not be counted to them as righteousness?
And another question. Was it all, or was it not, worth
doing?
He believes that it was all much more worth
doing than any living for ever in some moralist’s
pallid Garden of Eden ; more, that it is all being done
now and will go on being done, and by the same
assortment of mankind, though the lead may well be
taken by other races, as he sees threatening at the
present time. Turning from his direct consideration
of mankind to mankind’s ideals and influences, he
holds it to the eternal honor of Christianity that it
has stood steadfastly for the sanctity of the individual.
He notes, too, as remarkably interesting, that religion,
though never more discredited, still remains a matter
of universal interest.
But Christianity, he feels, has not been able suc-
cessfully to combat the change in man’s opinions and
ideas brought about through the rising tide of new
thought and new knowledge. It has not been able
to help him out of his complexity. God and the soul
are set aside as outworn superstitions, and the denial
of any future life rings Christianity’s passing bell.
Can anyone tell us, wonders this onlooker-seeker,
whether Christ would have approved of the pattern
of our present civilisation at all, and, if not, how are
we to escape from it? Can anyone tell us unequivo-
cally what would have been His attitude to our systems
of possession of property, to wealth, the lending of
money at interest, to birth control, to the sterilisation
of criminals or the unfit, to our legal system, to capi-
tal punishment?
What do Christian principles dictate to a great
nation in respect of its dealings with others? Should
it seek or sacrifice its advantages in trade, encourage
the presence of foreign blood, the admixture of white
and black, give or refuse its blessings on mixed mar-
riages? Should it abandon or maintain its advan-
tages in geographical position, in wealth of coal and
metals? Neither a man nor a nation can preserve its
own gains and interests without loss to others. Should
America or England dilute her currency or go off
the gold standard when it suits her, irrespective of
the effect upon her neighbors? It is not war only
which is a matter of life and death, as the simple sup-
pose. Economic sanctions, of which we have heard
so much, make war by starvation instead of bullets.
Trade and commerce are matters of life and death
to millions.
These and similar questions, he submits, are not
in our times to be evaded, and generalisations in the
manner of the Beatitudes do not answer them. You
may say that Christianity was never meant by its
Founder to solve our intellectual problems, but to be
a refuge from the distresses to which mankind is ex-
posed ; yet when men are continually assailed by
such problems in the struggle for existence, is it
surprising that a religion which fails to answer their
questions loses its hold upon them? The first and
unescapable question for Christianity, as indeed for
all men, is the simple question of acceptance or rejec-
tion of life, not as you would like it to be, but as it is,
under the conditions which prevail, of life as univer-
sally experienced, as it has been lived from age to
age. Does Christianity stand for living in this present
world, or against it; for taking a share in the world’s
multifarious and dubious undertakings, a hand in
the game, or refusing it? What has it to say con-
cerning our duty to defend and maintain, or to re-
linquish, the heritage won for us by our vigorous
ancestors? And if we relinquish it, will it pass into
cleaner hands, and mankind be better served?
He answers in regard to that last that when Eng-
land’s day comes to an end the principles which have
contributed to its coming—Christian, pacifist or what-
ever they may be styled—will not thereby be strength-
ened. The decline and fall of England will not be
England’s decline and fall only, but of all for which
she stood. “I am not of the opinion,” he declares,
“that humanity, justice, freedom, no, nor Christianity,
will be gainers by that fall.”
There comes now into Christianity, or at least in
the books of some theologians, the idea that a con-
firmation of a belief in a future life is undesirable.
They proclaim that Christianity is not in need of this
supporting pillar, and rests upon far more solid
columns. It is an interesting speculation how long it
would survive the extinction of the belief. The decay
of this ancient hope, as old as the human race, is the
worm at the root of all our creeds. As for science, if
the world in its scientific wisdom banishes humanity’s
larger hope, for all your excellent inventions, your
alleviations of discomfort and disease, for all your
wise saws and platitudes, the “Never, never, never,
never, never!” of Lear will make of earth’s pleasures
a make-believe. What now, already, is left? Neither
the old dream nor the new. And the malady of
our age is just the thought that nothing or next to
nothing is in truth worth attempting or achieving.
That, exactly that, is the pivot of the human
situation as this seeker finds it. “If in the denial of any
renewal of life beyond the grave,” he concludes, “we
do not virtually deny all life’s present values, I know
not where to find a more resolute denial of them.”
For his own part, he declines to accept it. “A future
life would be a miracle,” he says, “and you find it
difficult to believe in miracles. I, on the contrary, find
it easy. They are to be expected.” If there be a
sceptical star, he adds, he himself was born under it,
“yet I have lived all my days in complete astonish-
ment.” The starry worlds in time and space, the
pageant of life, the processes of growth and repro-
duction, the instincts of animals, the inventiveness of
nature, the rising and the setting sun, the affections
and passions, the character of thought, of will, in-
tuition, consciousness—they are all utterly unbeliev-
able, miracles piled on miracles. He, for one, is not
prepared to believe the world a misery-go-round, a
torture-chamber, a furnace of senseless affliction; he
for one, is not prepared to believe the fiery, invin-
cible soul a by-blow, a lamentable accident. He pre-
fers to put his trust in this matter in the larger vision
of the poets, who alone have understood.
“I like to think,” he adds, “that if men are
machines, they are machines of a celestial pattern,
which can rise above themselves, and, to the amaze-
ment of the watching gods, acquit themselves as men.
I like to think that this singular race of indomitable,
philosophising, poetical beings, resolute to carry the
banner of Becoming to unimaginable heights, may be
as interesting to the gods as they to us, and that they
will stoop to admit these creatures of promise into
their divine society.”
That is his landfall; an affirmation of belief in
rebirth —a landfall as old as mankind. But the com-
pany who go with him on the voyage will be likely
to agree, though it may still seem from their position
on deck a somewhat vague landfall, that that, after
all, must necessarily remain for ever the nature of
it; and, anyway, such a lively voyage was itself
worth while, as life might well be held to be for the
same reason —that is, for itself alone.
A Beachcomber Bouquet.
Every writer of humorous verses, from Ogden
Nash to a strangely human T. S. Eliot, has to write
a funny verse about a hippopotamus, and he has to
say that the brute looks strange to man but is beauti-
ful to its mate. Of all the literary hippopotami, the
best perhaps was the pet of “Dum-Dum” of “Punch,”
which, like its hippopotamother, was hippopota-
musically inclined.
J. B. Morton, who as “Beachcomber” is the pro-
fessional funnyman of London “Daily Express,” is as
o Continued on page 4.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — always.
THE SENIOR STORE”
aciaJ&ii
ANTHONY HORDERNSj^^«
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
A.—A lovely gift for a lady. Genuine, sparkling
Rock Crystal Choker, linked on silver wire and
packed in a gift box.
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE 4/11
B.—Pearls are always in such good taste, so she
is sure to appreciate this graduated Three-row
Necklet with a brilliant snap. In gift box.
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE 10/6
Also French three-row pearls 21/- and 25/-
M
'mk.
i- *
\
C.—Another splendid gift suggestion. Filigree
Gold and Pearl Pendants in several styles . . any
one of which she is bound to like.
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, each 10/11
\l£
©®
§>e
Rfi
(M
<S>®
o>®
®e>®
D.—Here is something that is sure to please
Smart Dress Fobs available in numerous styles
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, each 1/11
Also other designs, at 2/11
E. —A charming gift. Carved White Cabachon
Brooch in pretty Cameo style.
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, each 3/11
Also Matching Earrings. Price ... 3/11
F. —Beautiful brilliant and chrome Brooch.
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE 17/6
Also brilliant Bow Brooch. Prices, 7/11 and 10/6
G.—Box of 6 Swiss Opal Handker-
chiefs. White with embroidered
corner, also in coloured embroidery
and all coloured. At Anthony
Horderns'. PRICE, box 2/11
H.—Box of 6 Pure Irish Linen Hand-
kerchiefs, trimmed spokestitching
and dainty embroidered corners in
pastel shades, also other designs in
White embroidery. At Anthony
Horderns'. PRICE, box 7/11
I. —A gift that is sure to please her.
Box of six Irish Linen Handkerchiefs
with daintily embroidered corners
and finished val. lace. At Anthony
Horderns'. PRICE, box 10/6
USE THE D.P.S,
Use our Deposit Purchase System freely.
All that is required is the payment of a
deposit of not less than one-fifth of the
complete purchase price. The balance can
be paid in convenient monthly insla ments.
J. —Box of 3 Handkerchiefs, daintily
embroidered in pastel shades. A
welcome gift. At Anthony Horderns'.
PRICE, box 2/11
K.—Box of 6 Pure Irish Linen Hand-
kerchiefs with embroidered corners.
At Anthony Horderns'.
PRICE, box 5/11
L.—A useful and acceptable gift.
Fine quality Irish Lawn Handker-
chiefs with woven stripes and em-
broidered initial. Saxe, Navy, Fawn,
Tan, Green and Rust. Three in
cellophane packet. At Anthony
Horderns'. PRICE, 1/9. Each, 7*d.
*
©2
>*£
W
*
7
•i
r.i
w
J aX
*9.
ti»
#
yr*&
•/'o
&
\
\
\i
«
C5>
a* •
1
a
A'»n
:>\v
y
A-
cP
r
£
i
<*•’
PS
tP,
•l£«
\/
<■«>>
O'lJ
till
: : : ■
Jr
#
:Vfi
V*
•>
liiitf^Tiffriivi’^ii
\^fe
*i-
iM'M
*vV
i
2*
<•«/
«r
i®5
MM
v«c c
%
re
#Sj
1 I
#
flk^
li
1
c r
:f '
/ ,
/
/*
K
f
✓
%
Jjjj
A
‘ %
*
/
S3
M
aoaF
\v
WHILE I LIVE I’ll CROW
M.—Novelty Box of Handkerchiefs
in fine Lawn with coloured woven
borders. Also various other styles
at the same price. In boxes con-
taining half a dozen. At Anthony
Horderns'. PRICE 4/6
• Ladies’ Handkerchiefs and Art. Jewellery —•
Ground Floor—Pitt Street. Post free to any
address in the Commonwealth.


this is the
perfect
pair
The purest gin blended
with the juices of the
finest oranges and
lemons makes the per-
fect pair !
You will find
Gordon’s Orange Gin
and Gordon’s Lemon
Gin exhilarating as
a cocktail, refresh-
ing as a long drink.
• m
if
VH Specs"')
NO tSSt
NO tSSENtO
%YJI
jfvNQvjy*** o ,^." c,Y
GORD°7
I v-EVtor 4
L J
# Have you tried 3 parts
Gordon’s Orange Gin to 1
part Lime Juice Cordial ?
It’s delicious*
ORANCE CIN LEMON CIN
TANQUERAY, GORDON & CO. LTD., GIN DISTILLERS, LONDON
Zlhe Ltfigett gin diAtillM in the woild
Most appreciated
of Christmas (/ifts
“Swan” provides the perfect answer to everyone’s
gift problems
OTHER present is so universally suitable and so certain to bring pleasure.
This year there is a wider range than ever from which to choose—attractive
new models which will be genuinely appreciated even by those who already
possess pens and pencils. Call at your Stationer’s, Jeweller’s or Stores, to see this
handsome range for yourself. You’ll find something “just right” for almost
everyone you know!
Leverles *
L206/60
ibN? WSdwnrn
Jl
THE NEW “LEVERLESS” PEN.
Fyne-roynt
RG
Pencil
25/-
09 OOZ KS
*u| IVJ ■*•‘*•7
Fyne-Polnt
Pencil
20M / 60
Blackbird Soclcn
BT 200/60
(All made by Mabie, Todd & Co. Ltd., London)
Prices and style* to salt everyone: The new Leverless Swan from 21/-. Other Swans from IS/-.
Blackbird Pens from 11/-. Available in black or colours with nibs to suit all hands. Fyno-Poynt
Pencils to match most Swan Pens from 7/6. Gift Sets (pen and pencil complete In presentation
case) from Swans 24/- to 15 Guineas.
itVMiPmt
“SWAN” INK IS BEST FOR ALL PENS
Illustrated lists from
all Stationers, Jewellers, Stores, liable, Todd & Co. Ltd., 255 A George
Street, Sydney, or 323 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
hippopotaminded as the rest. In The Dancing Cab-
man (Muller) the beast pops up again:
This creature of enormous size
Has never won a beauty prize.
Look at her. Could she ever be
Little Miss Nineteen-Thirty-Three?
Miss Africa? The Jungle Queen?
Think of the idiotic scene
If some reluctant Mayor of Hull
Planted a kiss upon that skull.
“Beachcomber” himself, as a humorist, has a hoof
like a hippopotamus. He stamps it on duchessses’ toes
and beats it noisily in bars. Sometimes when he is
stamping and snorting for beer he is just a hippo
stamping and snorting. But even in bars, thanks to
Lewis Carroll, he has his moments:
O you hairy philosopher shambling along
On the trail of the Absolute Truth,
It’s an honor for you to appear in my song,
For you squandered the years of your youth,
With such dismal debating and mouthing of rot —
Till your face became flabby and fat,
When it might have been thoroughly wedged in a pot,
Or entirely submerged in a vat.
Stumping about the countryside, squashing beetles
and rustic bards impartially into the mire, he roars
at his best. He saw a lamb:
I looked at it,
It looked at me.
And all day long
The-lamb and 1
Just stood and stared;
I wonder why.
I cannot tell,
Nor can the lamb;
But neither of us
Cares a damn.
Further, there is this astonishing meeting between
Mr. Morton and a swan, entitled “By the Lake’s
Misty Marge”:
By the lake’s misty marge I met a swan,
And murmured, “Regal bird, float on, float on.”
Instead of floating on the regal bird
Knocked me into the water, without a word.
In the art gallery, “Beachcomber” knocks the
sculpture about with the reflection that all a modern
sculptor has to do is to take a rather ugly lump of
rock and call it “ Evening or Head of Child.” In “the
City” he bellows a blasphemous bit about rebuilding
Hadrian’s Wall to keep the horrid Scots away:
And every wandering mother’s Jock
Might wander by his native loch
The right side of the garden wall
For ever and a day.
During his literary perambulations, there is a con-
fession that he walks more in anger than in sorrow.
He is reflecting on the late Mr. Wordsworth, poet:
Permit me to remark
With the faintest touch of malice
That the straws in Wordsworth’s hair
Would have thatched the Crystal Palace.
And so it is with the faintest touch of malice that he
out-poohs the creations of the whimsical A. A. Milne:
John Percy
Said to his nursie,
“Nursie,” he said, said he,
“Tell Father
I’d much rather
He didn’t write books about me.”
Succeeding that heresy is a verse that will please any-
one who remembers Milne’s young gentleman at his
devotions:
Hush, hush,
Nobody cares!
Christopher Robin
Has
Fallen
Down-
Stairs.
That should be sufficient guarantee that this
hippopotamus is pretty good fare for Christmas. But
would the S.P.C.A. or some other worthy body please
give him a bucket of beer some time and drown that
anguished and agonising bellow in the bar?
A Fisher of Sharks.
No one who has ever hopefully dangled a hook
in the water could read Norman Caldwell’s Titans of
the Barrier Reef without
wanting to rush up north
and throw in a larger hook
for such of the monstrous
sharks, reef eels and groper
as he may have left in the
sea. The organisations
fi„L. ° • , c
that fish so expensively for
tourists should thank the
autbor and Angus and
Robertson for a bait that
should drag wild men from
Chicago, sceptical men
from Tauranga and Mr.
Chamberlain from Down-
ing-street
There is one chapter
that might puzzle Mr
Chamberlain and make
anglers from Taupo or
Tasmania shuffle cynically
in their waders. Mr. Cald-
,well, who caught sharks off
the New Snnth Wol»e
bo , U b . Wales
coast, marketed their skins
a ” d Fangs . °f tfie Sea
a P ou : the ™’ k ” all
fr out the bl 8 fish. But in
the . ncv [ bo ? k , for a P a B e
* wo be mingles With the
high-priests of the t,Vout
(rod, and says he watched a
man, fishing dry-fly, hook a trout: “By a twist of the
hand it was out of the water and was drawn to the
bank. It was a Min. rainbow trout.” Come, come, Mr.
Caldwell! No leaping, no rushing, no fighting from
a Min. rainbow that must weigh one pound and
might weigh two?
Mr. Caldwell, however, is not, except in that in-
stance, concerned with the niggling sanctities of the
Waltons. He measures his fish by the ton. There is
a photograph of a giant groper caught by his wife
that looks enough like a visitor from Mars to make
even Zane Grey take to the mountains.
Titans of the Barrier Reef begins with the cap-
ture of a crocodile, a story to which the blurb justly
applies the picturesque adjective “hair-raising.” Two
fishermen, whom Caldwell was assisting in a “flattie,”
were wading by night up a creek, hauling a net to
trap the fish in the shallows. They trapped a croco-
dile. Though it threshed the water in fury, raging at
the net, the fishermen kept calmly on:
The tropical moonlight lit up an aquatic Dante’s
Inferno: the bent bare bodies of the two men struggling
silently through the water with their burdened net;
the turbulent fish-laden stream, edged with black velvety
shadows; the giant saurian bespattering those shadows
white with foam —a shifting shadow in the half-light.
When the shallows were reached one of the fisher-
men, Boyd Lee, fought a thrilling battle with the


fafiuLUtin
£lOO Short Story Competition
closes January 31, 1939.
Prizes are:
First £7O Third £lO
Second £l5 Brief Story .. . £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words. The Brief
Story prize is for a story of not more than 1500 words.
auBWJw
MIY SWi
X
WM
Ml
mm
% f
m
r
* /
MILEAGE
“40,000 MILES FROM ONE SET— and the car !s
used over all types of country roads,” says G. L.
Leslie of Perth.
“26,423 MILES WITHOUT TROUBLE— and they
look good for lots more miles” says Mr. J. Markby
of Melbourne.
“24,000 MILES AND PATTERN NOT COM-
PLETELY WORN —No reason why I should not get
30,000 miles,” says IL W. Harrison of Melbourne.
SAFETY
“GIVES A WONDERFUL DEGREE OF SAFETY
—particularly on greasy roads—the best non-skid tyres
they have used,” says H. W. Yearsley, Ashfiehl, N.S.W.
“NOT A PUNCTURE IN 10,000 MILES- over all
types of roads,” says D. McDonald of Perth.
SILENCE
“COMPLETE ABSENCE OF ROAD NOISE—
Silent ‘9o’ runs true to its name,” says S. Owen of
Newton, N.S.W.
“HOWLING WHEN CORNERING ELlMlN-
ATED —satisfied with mileage and wonderful safety,”
says R. H. Monckton, Sydney.
THE TYRE THAT SOLD ITSELF
TO 89,000 MOTORISTS
TYRES
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
THROUGHOUT THE BRITISH EMPIRE MOST PEOPLE RIDE ON DUNLOP TYRES
monster until he roped it. The incident recalled to
Lee another crocodile story which should intrigue
the fraternity who contribute to The Bulletin’s
“Abo.” pages. He saw a herd, covey or brood of
flying-foxes hanging to a branch over a creek. As a
crocodile came slowly swimming up, the foxes whined
like the wind, but none of them flew away. The
croc., submerging, shook a bough that was in the
water; that bough shook the other bough, three foxes
fell into the stream and the croc, had breakfast. The
other foxes flew off screeching, but came back to the
same bough ; the croc, appeared ; the foxes whined,
the bough shook, the croc, had lunch ; and so ad
infinitum.
Next comes the shark that ate pudding. Then
millions of butterflies darkening the sky over the
Reef. Then a groper stalking the fish in a fish-trap.
Then the shark that was full of beer-bottles. Phar
Lap the goat is worth meeting, too. A fight between
sea-eagles is vividly told.
There are two weird stories ; one of a ’plane that
might or might not have crashed, a bushfire, a camp-
fire, footprints in the sand, a fruitless search. Appar-
ently there was some tragedy there of which the world
knows nothing. The other story is like a fisherman’s
nightmare. Some Brisbane anglers at the Barrier,
fishing from a ledge 30 feet above the water, dropped
in a pile of mullet entrails:
Below, the water started to swirl and boil, and
from its dark depths a tentacle appeared, giant-like
and terrifying. Another followed, then the third and
fourth. The writhing coils of a monstrous octopus
reached the ledge; one swept the surface from which
the men had retreated before it was withdrawn to the
depths again. The going of those feelers left a nasty
taste in the mouths of the men watching.
A monster Caldwell himself encountered was a
reef eel whose size he could only guess. When he
was playing an eel it was swallowed as far as the
back of its head by another of the species. The swal-
lower escaped at the last moment, but the one Cald-
well landed was over 12 feet in length ; for three feet
from the head it was torn to shreds, and on the re-
maining nine feet the skin had been cut through as
if with razors.
Among the sharks it was monster after monster.
One of the photographs, an eerie, striking thing, actu-
ally shows a monster after a monster. Caldwell was
playing one shark when, as often happened, another
brute loomed up and bit the captive fish in half. The
photograph shows the killer, a giant tiger, coming
up to devour the rest. The bulk of the book is devoted
to describing battles with these brutes, and every story
glows with excitement. There are dramatic stories,
too, of struggles with stormy seas.
Some of the writing is not of the best. Waves
(please!) don’t “spew” over the rocks ; the story of
George Sent and the willy-willy of 1887 reads like
a novelette; and people rarely say in conversation
“Glorious velvety green verdure makes this sylvan
paradise one not easily forgotten.” And the joke
about how funny women are wears pretty thin. But
for tourists, fishermen and anyone who likes a rattling
good yarn about fishing, Titans of the Barrier Reef
is well worth bringing to the gaff.


Would You For Two Million?
THE STRIP STROLL
BY J.B. BLAIR
ILLUSTRATED BY UNK WHITE.
i ’j AKED!” spluttered Sydney’s Lord Mayor,
I “Walk naked from Central Station to the
[ (. Quay! It’s preposterous! Ridiculous!”
He glanced around the table at his
aldermanic brethren. “Nice fool I’d look walking
two miles through the city without a stitch of clothing
on. And for what?”
“Two million quid,” replied Alderman Fishproof.
“Two million quid!” snorted the Mayor. “Yes,
that’s what the city gets out of it, but what do I get?”
“The honor and glory of”
“Bunk! The honor of being gaped at by a
crowd of ignorant—er”
“Ratepayers.”
“Ignorant sensation-seekers. Not only that, but
I’d be pointed at all my life. I can see them —flappers
sniggering and whispering every time I go down the
street, larrikins calling out after me.”
“I think your Lordship is taking too harsh a view
of it,” protested Councillor Eyewash. “The people
will look upon you as a public benefactor. It will
be regarded as a great-hearted gesture. I can see
your statue in Hyde Park.”
“Yes! Naked, I suppose!” roared the Mayor,
red in the face with indignation and embarrassment.
“You can have it yourself. You take the job on.”
“It says ‘Lord Mayor,’” replied. Councillor Eye-
wash. “It’s up to you, I’m afraid.”
“I think the whole idea is unseemly and indecent,”
put in Alderman Mealymouth. “I strongly advise
the Lord Mayor to have nothing to do with it. If
the city is to depend for its revenue upon a public
exhibition being made of its Chief Magistrate, then
it will be better for it to go bankrupt.”
The situation was certainly unique in the history of
the city—or of any city. A letter had been received from
a prominent firm of solicitors stating that under the
terms of the will of one of their clients the sum of
£2,000,000 had been bequeathed to the City of Sydney
on condition that the Lord Mayor should walk
publicly, in broad daylight, and in full view of
all who care to watch, unaided, alone, under
his own motive power, from Sydney Ceniral
Station to Circular Quay, completely nude,
naked, and without clothing, raiment or apparel
of any kind whatsoever,
At first the council had been inclined to treat
the letter as a joke, but investigations proved its
genuineness. The unknown benefactor, it transpired,
was one Erasmus Loofah, who a few years previously
had been fined a small sum for appearing in bathing
trunks at a Sydney beach where regulations demanded
a neck-to-knee costume. The legacy was a subtle
revenge for the indignity he had suffered.
The council was split by the letter into two camps.
The Lord Mayor, the party most concerned in the
proposal, was, as has been seen, openly hostile, and
he had the support of many of the aldermen. Coun-
cillor Eyewash and the other school of thought held
that it was the Mayor’s duty to cast his personal feel-
ings and his clothes aside and sally forth to earn the
city an easy two million.
It was natural that the newspapers should take
sides.
“Lord Mayor Refuses to Bare His Corporation,”
announced the “Evening Star” when the news first
came out, and it trenchantly attacked the unfortunate
gentleman for what it termed his lack of patriotism.
The “Thunderer” next morning took the opposite
view and congratulated his Lordship on refusing to
encourage the modern craze for sensation. Main-
taining that the terms of the legacy were in any case
against public interest and therefore illegal, it con-
tinued that it was criminal to suggest “that the Lord
Mayor should be exposed to the indignity of the
ribald laughter of the ignorant.”
This gave the “Star” the opportunity to take up
the cudgels on behalf of insulted democracy.
“Is not the human body the noblest work of
Nature?” it shouted. “Why, then, should the
‘Thunderer’ suggest that the exposure of the nude body
of the Lord Mayor would be a signal for ribald
laughter? Was the remark intended as a slight on the
Lord Mayor? Apparently not. Then it must be
intended as a slight upon the taste and judgment of the
people—a people, we might say, whose standard of
culture and intelligence is unequalled in any city
of the world.”
After several weeks of wordy battling between
the two dailies, much debate in trams, trains, ferries
and buses, hundreds of letters to editors and several
pulpit utterances on the subject, it became evident
that public opinion was about evenly divided.
The Bondi Nudist Club offered to march as a
bodyguard for the Mayor should he attempt the walk,
and the Purity League and the Protect Our Daughters
Association in a joint manifesto threatened that in
that case they would take drastic (but undisclosed)
steps to break up any such procession.
A T the Town Hall half the council still tried to
** persuade the Lord Mayor to sacrifice his modesty
for the common good of the city and the other half
continued to support his refusal to strip himself of
his robes of honor.
At this stage the solicitors again wrote to the
council, pointing out that they had omitted to mention
earlier that there was a time-limit clause to the
bequest, and that if the conditions had not been com-
plied with by noon on November 8 following the
legacy would revert to a distant nephew of the tes-
tator.
“November the eighth! Why, that’s only three
months off!” said Councillor Eyewash. “We’ll have
to hurry.”
“You can hurry as much as you like,” retorted
the Mayor, “but I’m not moving an inch.”
The whole argument was gone through again for
the hundredth time, with the usual result.
“May we take that as final?” asked Councillor
Eyewash.
“You certainly may. I’m not going to turn my-
self into a strip-tease artist. No, not if it were twenty
million pounds.”
Councillor Eyewash rose. “Then, your Lord-
ship,” he said, “I respectfully submit that it is your
duty to resign to make way for someone who is
willing to do so.”
“Meaning yourself?” snapped the Mayor.
“Meaning anyone who is public-spirited enough
to suffer a brief personal inconvenience for the good
of the community.”
Debate waxed fierce on this proposal till the
unhappy Lord Mayor felt that he was being virtually
stripped at his own council table. Finally, in exas-
peration, he threw in the sponge.
“All right,” he exploded, “I’ll resign! You can
have the job. You can prowl around naked all day
for all I care, you—you —exhibitionist!”
“Shame!” cried one or two of Eyewash’s sup-
porters. “Retract! ”
“Oh, it’s all right,” said Eyewash. “If a man is
willing to do anything for the public benefit he must
be prepared to be traduced.”
The problem was, however, still far from being
solved, for although the nudist question had split
the council in twain it was by no means the only
question on which that body was divided. Although
many of the members were supporting Councillor Eye-
wash on this matter, several of them had strong
reasons for not wanting to see him in the Lord
Mayoral chair.
Consequently, when the Mayor resigned several
other members were also nominated for his vacant
position; and when the ballot was taken not Eye-
wash, but an anti-nudist was elected, and the council
found itself back where it started.
It was only a fortnight before the new Lord
Mayor, harassed by the Eyewash clique and fiercely
attacked by the “Evening Star,” handed in his resig-
nation. Another ballot was taken, and another non-
stripper was elected.
“Another Lilywhite Refuses to Sun-Tan!”
announced the “Star” headlines, thereby originating
the name which stuck to the anti-nudist party through-
out the rest of the campaign. The nudists became
known as the Strippers.
Failure to gain the coveted Lord Mayoral chair
increased Councillor Eyewash’s interest in the “Two-
million Strip-stroll” until he became positively fana-
tical about it. With the “Star” on his side he pulled
strings until a monster petition was presented to Par-
liament requesting that the Local Government Act be
amended to permit the election of the Lord Mayor
by the ratepayers instead of by the City Council.
This was successful. The date of the expiry of
the offer was drawing near, and a bill was rushed
through Parliament. Plans were made for a brief
campaign to terminate with a poll on November 7.
This gave a sporting flare to the project.
“At 11 a.m. on November 8,” announced the
Strippers’ publicity man, “the new Lord Mayor,
Councillor Eyewash, will publicly walk, unclad and
unaided, from Central Station to the Quay.”
That he would be elected his party considered a
foregone conclusion. Two million pounds was a
tremendous bait to dangle before the eyes of over-
burdened ratepayers, even without the joyful prospect
of seeing the successful candidate walking naked
down Pitt-street.
The Lilywhites prepared for the campaign, but
it soon became apparent that they were fighting a
losing battle. Betting in the city clubs was nine to
two on Eyewash. Speculators were busy renting Pitt-
street windows and reletting them, and virtually every
city hotel was booked out for the second week in
November. It looked as though the entire Melbourne
Cup crowd intended to migrate en masse to Sydney for
the “Strip-stroll” immediately after the Cup meeting.
The “Thunderer” urged the Government and the
police to intervene, and a deputation waited on the
Premier and Minister for Justice asking that action
should be taken to prevent the Stroll.
These worthies replied that they could take no
action to prevent something that was as yet merely
conjectural. Councillor Eyewash had merely stated
that if elected he would undertake the “Strip-stroll.”
There was nothing to prove that he would be elected
or that, if elected, he would carry out his promise.
“It might,” argued the Minister for Justice, “be
merely an electioneering stunt on his part to secure
his election as Lord Mayor.”
The indignant deputation withdrew, muttering
threats about the next election. '
“Anyhow,” said the Premier to the Minister for
Justice after their departure, “come to think of it, I


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-66 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Lite Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST"
Write jot full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Doctors say that it your Hormone Glands ana
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or write
direct for particulars of this MODERN
TREATMENT.
Ml
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney,
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
N 50 —Strong Nail Nipper, Nickel-plated,
4Ain. overall. 6/6 each.
II
C 21 —Folding Shaving Outfit, made of
Fine Leather. Size when folded. Siin. x
54in. x 2Jin. Containing W. Jno. Baker
brand Razor. Shaving Brush. Shaving
Soap and Container. 'Tooth Brush and
Container, Hair Brush. Comb and
Mirror, 50/-.
216 — Best Quality anil Finish, liiin.
stag Haft, 9/6 each.
Improved Allegro Sharpener for Safety
Razor Blades. Automatically strops and
hones both sides of Blade without re-
moving Blade. No skill required—just
slide Blade Holder up and down.
For Gillette Pattern Blades ... 25 /-
For Auto-Strop and Gem Blades 28/-
(50-I—Four-pair Scissor Case. Case made
of Grained Calf Leather, Velvet lined.
Size, about 8} in. x Sin. when folded.
Fitted with 4 best-quality Sheffield-
made Scissors —1 Tin. Cutting-out, 1 Sin.
Household. 1 Embroidery and 1 Nail.
37/6 Complete.
W. Jno. liaker Standard Razor, White
Xylonite Handle, Jin. wide blade, set
ready for use. 13/6.
W. Jno. BAKER
Pty. 3 HUNTER ST.,
Ltd., SYDNEY.
don’t think we’ve got any power to arrest the Lord
Mayor in his own municipality for anything short of
mass murder.”
“D’you think he’ll do it?” asked Justice.
“What? Mass murder?”
“No, this—er—‘Strip-stroll’ act.”
“1 certainly do. I know old Eyewash. Used to
go to school with him. He’d do anything to attract
notice.”
“It’ll put the Police Department in an awkward
position.”
“Don’t worry about it. After all, two million’s two
million. By the way, the P.M.G. offered me a few
windows on the first floor, overlooking Pitt-street.
Care to come?”
“Thanks.”
POLLING-DAY drew nigh. By now not even the
most ardent Lilywhites expected anything but a
victory for the Strippers, and outwardly the campaign
had become quite an orderly affair. But below the
surface there was a confusion of plot and counter-
plot.
Eyewash’s supporters knew that the Lilywhites,
having abandoned all hope of winning the election,
were now concentrating on plans to prevent the Stroll.
Dark rumors of intended kidnapping reached their
ears; suggestions that arrangements were afoot for
the complete barricading of Pitt-street; it was even
whispered that the Purity League would not shrink
from murder to preserve the fair name of the city.
The Strippers, however, declared themselves fully
prepared. The surf-clubs, which at first planned to
march as a nude bodyguard to Councillor Eyewash,
were at last convinced that this would disqualify the
Mayor, who by the terms of the will was to walk
alone. They rallied all the athletic bodies in Sydney
to line the street in order to prevent any hostile demon-
stration, and they let it be known that rough handling
would be the lot of anyone who attempted to prevent
the Mayor from earning the two million.
Visitors poured into the city from all parts of
Australia. Rail, steamer and air services all ran at
full pressure as the day came nearer. The day before
the poll two round-the-world-cruise ships arrived,
their passengers having voluntarily sacrificed a tour
of Bali in order to reach Sydney ahead of schedule
in time to see the big event.
Film companies besieged Councillor Eyewash with
astounding offers for the exclusive rights of the Stroll,
but, to that gentleman’s credit, he refused to grant
a monopoly of the spectacle.
“I am proud to .be able to do this small task
for Sydney,” he told them all, “and I am proud to
let the whole world see me do it. It will be a won-
derful advertisement for Sydney. Be sure you get
the bridge and the war memorial in.”
On polling-day the Lilywhites’ hopes seemed to
revive a little, and they worked enthusiastically
throughout the day motoring presumed supporters to
the polling-booth. But discerning observers might
have noticed that their faces did not wear the same
triumphant expressions as were visible on the coun-
tenances of the Strippers.
The counting did not take long, and at 10 p.m.
it was announced throughout the city that Councillor
Eyewash had been elected Lord Mayor. This was
the signal for which Sydney had been waiting, and
the population at once gave itself over to celebration.
The Town Hall was thrown open, and an im-
promptu Victory Ball was soon in full swing.
Hilarious crowds streamed out of picture theatres
and passed on to night clubs and supper dances and
in a hundred and one ways prepared to make a night
of it.
The new Lord Mayor was in high spirits. His
ambition was at last realised, and if he felt any qualms
about the ordeal on the morrow he did not reveal
them.
“Thank you! Thank you!” he spoke his piece.
“I am determined to carry out my promise to-morrow.
Others have let you down, but I shall not. Threats
will not deter me. I know my duty and I shall do it.”
The sun rose on Sydney’s greatest day, revealing
hundreds of early-comers already ensconced at points
of vantage along Pitt-street and thousands more flock-
ing towards that centre of interest from all suburbs.
The “Thunderer,” announcing the victory of
Councillor Eyewash in sad, regretful terms, recorded
also his determination to proceed with the Stroll. It
furthermore reported that, following the receipt of
the election figures, a deputation from the Lilywhites
had searched vainly for the Premier and Minister for
Justice, intending to repeat their previous demands.
The strange absence of these two gentlemen is sig-
nificant. Police headquarters, on being requested to
forbid to-day’s threatened disgusting parade, replied that
they could do nothing without instructions Irom the
Minister. At a late hour last night it was the intention
of the deputation to seek the Minister this morning. We
venture to suggest that the Minister will be difficult
to find.
“Difficult” is of course a relative term. The
deputation did encounter great difficulty in finding
the Minister—in fact, they did not locate him at all;
but had they searched a certain Pitt-street window of
the G.P.O. their task would have been simplicity
itself.
The Strippers had not all spent the night in
celebrations. A barrier of rails and ropes extended
along each side of the whole length of Pitt-street, and
the surf-club bodyguards in great numbers were dotted
along it, being particularly numerous at the railway
end of the street.
AS the morning advanced Pitt-street, behind the
barricades, became a seething mass of people, and
by 10.30 every window, verandah-roof and other
point that overlooked the street was packed. By this
time (by whose order will never be known) all tram
traffic had been diverted from that street and the
policemen on point duty turned back any vehicles
that managed to force their way in from the side
streets. Turned back is hardly correct, as the majority
had not the slightest hope of moving until the big
event was over. They were merely commandeered
as impromptu grandstands by the crowd, and the
unfortunate drivers, powerless to resist, found them-
selves forced to climb on the roofs of their cars if
they hoped to see anything of the Mayor.
Meanwhile that gallant gentleman had arrived
at Central Railway Station. Attired in a gay beach-
wrap he stood among his council supporters, a trifle
pale but talking jauntily nevertheless. A horrible
doubt had suddenly assailed his mind —a disturbing
thought which up till then, absorbed in the excite-
ment of the campaign, had not occurred to him.
Definitely out of training, and never at any stage
of his life distinguished for physical prowess, was he
capable of walking two miles, in the hot November
sun? Up to the present he had assumed that the
task was one that called for moral courage only. It
was now dawning on him that physical endurance
was also necessary. For years his car had taken him
everywhere. If only he could go into training for a
few weeks! But the clock was striking eleven now.
He braced himself.
“A few words into the mike,” pleaded a voice.
A microphone was shoved under his nose.
“Ladies and gentlemen, citizens of Sydney,” he
began, “I am about to carry out my promise. I do
this not for glory or notoriety but for the sake of
each and every one of you. My opponents have said
that it can’t be done. I say it can and will. I shall
cast aside my wrap at this station and I shall don my
clothes at the Quay. Citizens, I come!”
With which inspiring words the Lord Mayor
flung off his wrap, waved a nonchalant hand to his
fellow-councillors and strode off down the incline.
Cameras clicked; men cheered, hooted or hissed,
according to temperament; women shrieked, tittered,
applauded or fainted, according to upbringing, and —
but here let the radio commentator take over for a
while:
“Well, the sporting event of the century
is now in progress. The Lord Mayor’s
started on the big two-million-pound Strip-
stroll. I got a splendid view of the start
from here. The Mayor threw off his beach-
wrap and he’s footing it down towards the
Hotel Sydney for all he’s worth. And for the
benefit of listeners outside the city, who won’t
be able to see for themselves, I want to say
that the Lord Mayor’s torso is as white as
a dove. Not a blemish. I heard it said
during the week that he was freckled. Well,
you can hear the crowd roaring. They’re
showing their appreciation of a fine sporting
effort.
“Most of ’em, that is. There are a few
dissenters. The ambulance men are pretty
busy. There’s a bit of a scuffle near me. Oh,
no —just another woman fainted. Off she
goes. That’s about seventeen. The Lord
Mayor, looking quite a classic figure from
behind, is rapidly approaching the Hotel
Sydney. When he reaches the corner I shall
hand over to my colleague, who will”
“....the crowd is on tiptoe, and
Here he comes! He’s making good lime and
so far shows no sign of fatigue. The crowd
around me are giving him a great reception.
There’s a bit of opposition coming from the
opposite corner. Looks like an organised
demonstration. A section of the crowd is
trying to break through.
“Ah, the surf men are pressing them
back. The Mayor has passed the danger
point. What’s this? He’s fallen!... It’s
all right, listeners —he’s up again. Limping
a little. Stubbed his toe on the tramline, I
think. I don’t envy him his job to-day. The
sun’s streaming down and the pavement must
be almost red-hot.”
“....Broadcasting from Anthony Hor-
derns’ corner... A disgraceful scene. A
woman rushed through the barrier and, be-
fore the guards could stop her, flung an over-
coat round Councillor Eyewash. Of course
she was dragged away immediately, and the
Lord Mayor flung aside the offensive gar-
ment, which was instantly torn to shreds by
eager souvenir-hunters. Disgusting to think
that a woman should be so lost to all sense
of decency. The Lord Mayor is pressing on.
He’s very active. He’s actually dancing!
What grace! What rhythm! Good
heavens! What’s this? He’s sitting down.
No, he’s jumping up again. He’s It’s
no good, listeners. The crowd is right in my
line of vision.”
THE explanation of Eyewash’s sudden exhibition
of eccentric dancing lay in the copious supply
of drawing-pins which had been sprinkled with careless


prodigality over the portion of the track along which
he was now passing. Many of these were lying
point downwards, but, unfortunately for the Mayor,
many were not.
After the first few leaps and gyrations Eyewash
gingerly selected a portion of roadway which was
clear of pins and, with a look of anguish on his face,
detached the clinging pieces of steel from his feet
and posterior. Then he marched slowly onward,
almost tiptoeing his way along this unsuspectedly
treacherous piece of pavement.
Red in the face with the unaccustomed exertion,
rapidly becoming red in the body from the unaccus-
tomed sun, and with sweat pouring down his tubby
person he was not now the jaunty figure that had
stepped off so bravely from Central.
This fact should have moved to pity any Lily-
whites in the crowd, but apparently there was no pity
in their hearts, for ping! The Mayor jumped and
clapped a hand to the fleshy portion of his rear
anatomy. Ping! Ping! He was dancing again.
As an unbiased visitor from another State
remarked later, peashooters weren’t so bad. A man
must expect that. But shanghais! Well, that was
hitting below the belt. It certainly was as far as
Councillor Eyewash was concerned (had he worn
one) in ninety per cent, of the cases at any rate.
A frantic rush, regardless of drawing-pins, took
him out of range of the ambuscade, and he turned
back to shake his fist at the balconies and to shout
outraged threats at his attackers. The commentator at
Livcrpool-street corner saw this episode in the dis-
tance only, and when Eyewash reached his post he
was once more in friendly territory.
- “ They are cheering wildly. The Lord
Mayor seems a trifle exhausted. He is pant-
ing heavily and limping rather badly. There’s
going to be a pause here. They’re giving him
a drink. Under the terms of the Stroll this
is allowed. The lawyers have agreed to that.
He’s drinking —er Sorry —l’m not
allowed to advertise.
“Anyway, while he’s resting here’s a little
bit of information for you. The wpman who
threw the overcoat over the Lord Mayor
back at Horderns’ corner was none other
than Mrs. Eyewash. His own wife!
What He’s up. Yes, he’s moving on.
Looks a bit more comfortable now. For the
benefit of country listeners I should mention
“I wouldn’t do it for ten million, you ungrate-
ful hounds. Gimme some clothes. I’m going
home.” The situation was very ugly.
that his Lordship is not of an athletic type,
and he is naturally feeling the heat. It’s a
terrifically hot day, and”
Meanwhile the naked pilgrim pushed on. By
now the journey had forfeited its right to be
described as a stroll. The Mayor was limping; he
was staggering; at times he was hopping, and occa-
sionally, when a well-directed catapult shot got home,
he was jumping; but he certainly was not strolling.
Any embarrassment which he might have felt on
leaving Central had long since vanished, and now his
only interest in life was to reach the Quay and lie
down in some cool place with soothing ointments on
his blistered feet.
Park-street came in sight. Not so far to go
now! But
“ Yes, it’s a fire-hose. Coming from
one of the top windows. The force of it
knocked the Mayor right off his feet. This
is past a joke. He’s dodging about, and the
hose is following him. He’s making a dash
for it. He’s out of range—resting a moment.
He s on his way again. Turns back to shake
his fist at the top windows... Look out, sir !
Oh, he’s in it!—large pool of tar right across
the track. People shouted out to warn him,
but he was looking back . . . slipped and sat
right down in the tar.
“Gosh, he does look a sight! Ha, ha!
Pardon me—it’s very sad, really ; disgraceful.
The crowd is calling out to him. Ha, ha, ha!
I mean ahem! They’re asking him to do
the Black Bottom. He’d welcome another
hosing now, I should think and here it
comes !”
DOOR Eyewash was again the target of a fire-hose,
1 and once again had to dodge frantically to evade
the stream of water. It seemed to be the last straw.
He had imagined himself walking down Pitt-street a
naked yet dignified figure, with admiring crowds
applauding as he passed. He had anticipated some
ribald comments here and there, but according
to his calculations a withering glance in the direction
of the offenders should have reduced them to shamed
silence.
But he had not reckoned on drawing-pins, far
less on peashooters and catapults. As for fire-hoses
and tar, he had not dreamt that even his bitterest
opponent would resort to such tactics.
Out of range of the hose once more, he pulled
up and started haranguing the crowd.
“I’m through!” he yelled. “I won’t put up with
it any longer.”
There was a hush and then a murmur. Only
those close by had heard the outburst. A micro-
phone was produced from somewhere and thrust
towards the Mayor. He seized it and repeated:
“I’m through! I’m not going to walk another
inch. I’ve been insulted and humiliated. I’m
through! ”
The crowd gave voice.
“Shame! Quitter! Piker! Squib! What
about that two million quid?”
The Mayor spoke into the microphone again.
“I wouldn’t do it for ten million, you ungrateful
hounds. Gimme some clothes. I’m going home.”
The situation was very ugly. Eager Lilywhites
were whipping off coats and trying to hand them to
Eyewash, and indignant Strippers were tearing them
to shreds. No sooner would the Mayor lay hands
on a garment than it would be torn from his grasp
and trampled underfoot.
Ping! Ping! The catapults were in action
again. Swish! So were the hoses.
The'crowd drew back from Eyewash, who, for-
getting his resolve, sprang forward once more to
escape the bombardment. But his persecutors were
in great force in this section, and, although they had
seemingly won the day in that Eyewash had been
goaded into giving up the Stroll, bad generalship or
personal feeling led them to throw away their advan-
tage, and when the Strip-stroller next slackened his
pace he was two hundred yards nearer the Quay and
was once more determined to see it through.
The King-street-Martin-place section was passed
without untoward happening.
Good heavens!” gasped the Premier from his
upstairs window at the G.P.0., “that can’t be Eye-
wash.”
The Lord Mayor was a sorry sight. The few
portions of his body that were not streaked with tar
were red with sunburn, and he was limping badly.
He hardly noticed the struggling crowd in Martin-
place, where the Lilywhites were attempting to break
through to carry him off by force.
The Strippers fought them back valiantly and
the danger was averted. Five year-long minutes later
the weary Lord Mayor staggered past Bridge-street
and—
“ He’s coming into the straight. It
looks like a good finish. He’s not exactly
fresh, but all opposition seems to be over.
The crowd is cheering madly. What’s this?
Good Lord! They’re hosing him again.
A last effort. They won’t stop him now,
though. He’s been wet too many times
to-day to worry about that... Hullo!
There’s something wrong. That’s not water.
He’s trying to wipe it off. Seems to be
sticky. Never mind —he’s moving 0n...
“Something up there. A rope just shot
across the street from roof to roof. There’s
something fishy there. The crowd are warn-
ing him, but he doesn’t seem to hear. He’s
approaching the rope. Good heavens! Just
as the Lord Mayor passed under the rope a
sack shot down it from the western side of
the street. It sprang open, and a cloud of
feathers descended all over the Mayor. And
did they stick! The poor Mayor was prop-
erly tarred and feathered. But he hardly hesi-
tated. It seemed to give him new life, and
he sprinted forward —yes, listeners, actually
sprinted—covered the last hundred yards and
broke the ribbon at the Quay.
“I wish you could see the scene here,
listeners. The crowd is going mad with
enthusiasm. The time is eleven-fifty-five,
and our Lord Mayor, Councillor Eyewash,
has completed the promised Strip-stroll with
five minutes to spare and has secured for his
city Erasmus Loofah’s legacy of two million
pounds... You’ll hear him speak now.”
“Well, citizens, I’ve done it. I told you
I would, and I have. My enemies have done
all in their power to stop me, but I have won
through. You all know I am not a man to
boast, and that I have always put duty before
personal comfort, and on this occasion”
DXTRACT from a letter to the Sydney City
J —' Council from Erasmus Loofah deceased’s solici-
tors :
the terms of the legacy distinctly
said ‘‘without clothing, raiment or apparel of
any kind whatsoever.”
Although the Lord Mayor complied with
this condition for the greater portion of the
journey, he was for the last hundred yards
definitely clad in feathers which completely
covered his whole form.
We maintain that this was raiment, and
are reluctantly compelled to keep to the letter
of the contract, and the legacy accordingly
passes to the testator’s nephew, Samuel Loofah.
C XTRACT from the diary of Samuel Loofah, first-
-class passenger on s.s. Gigantic, November 8:
....so I just had time to get away from
the building, stow the rope and sack away in
my cabin on the Gigantic and get down to
lunch.


$
An Australian Factory
in an Australian
Garden
AUSTRALIfIn
WIRELESS lIIAnUFACTURE
The manufacture of wireless equipment in Australia has attained a very high degree
of efficiency. Every type of apparatus for use at sea, on land and in the air is now
produced at the A.W.A. Radio-Electric Works.
Over 50 Broadcasting Stations have been made by A.W.A. for all parts of Australia,
New Zealand, Papua and Fiji. The largest of all, a 60 k.w. station, was manufac-
tured for the New Zealand Broadcasting Board and is the most powerful broadcast-
ing station in the Southern Hemisphere.
Australian manufactured wireless equipment has been installed in over 470 ships,
and A.W.A. regularly exports to Great Britain wireless equipment for vessels build-
ing there for Australian and New Zealand shipping companies.
The A.W.A. works are the largest for the manufacture of broadcasting receivers, as
well as for communication equipment used in the Commonwealth Lighthouse Ser-
vice, Police Departments, N.S.W. Hydro-electric networks, Sydney Ambulance,
Sydney County Council, and many others.
The design and manufacture of radio-telephone transmitting and receiving equip-
ment for use in aeroplanes, and wireless equipment for ground communication
with aircraft, constitutes still another phase of A.W.A. manufacture.
Over 1,500 Australians are normally employed at the A.W.A. Radio-electric works
in this great national industry.
AMALGAMATED WIHELESS (A/ASIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA’S
NATIONAL
WIRELESS
ORGANISATION


aht; , %
H
m*t w
, -
■


THE RESCUE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
, 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
M elbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (/4ms.). Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street. London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
1~ months, £2 3s, 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months. 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE GREAT WAR OF WORDS.
With the generous object of presenting as many
young Australians as possible with a brand-new
uniform for Christmas, Mr. W. M. Hughes has been
stamping up and down the countryside in a return-
performance role that must raise high remembered
feelings in his staunch old heart.
It is good to see our best little warhorse display-
ing such excellent form. A paddockful as good, and
Australia would be fit to take on all-comers in the
Great War of Words —the war of verbal give-and-
take, pointed comment and backchat —that has raged
continuously through 1938 and shows no sign of
abating as another season of peace on earth (here
and there) and goodwill (more or less) draws near.
Even with Mr. Hughes alone we are pretty well
defended for what is—unless such diverse authorities
as Mr. Neville Chamberlain, Mr. Bernard Shaw and
a few others are telling whopping lies—the only sort
of war in sight as far as we are concerned. We can
feel sure, at any rate, that the Ftihrer, for one,
will think twice before he comes barging in
here while Mr. Hughes is about. If he dared, one
blast from the Little Digger would singe his moustache
off, and the glory of the Third Reich would vanish
in a smell of burnt whisker.
As it is, Mr. Hughes has been withering up all
opposition from Bradley’s Head to the Back o’
Bourke, from Davenport to Darwin. “Britain,” he
has cried, “is ringed .in with enemies!” Nobody has
risen to deny it. Everybody has applauded with loud
cries of “Tear it into ’em, Billy!” delighted to see
that other champions are not going to have the field
to themselves.
Even louder applause when, in one snort of
genius, Mr. Hughes concentrated everything that can
possibly be said about this prevailing Great War of
Words into a simple phrase that everybody could
understand. Charging on more than one urban and
rural tourney ground in the past week or two the
amazing little warhorse has given it forth. “War,”
he has snorted, “is thundering at our gates!” There
is no doubt that it is, and in wordier and wordier
thunder all the time..
Diggers present, remembering having in their day
had issued to them in rations such confounding sub-
stitutes as cheese in lieu of matches, pork-and-beans
in lieu of sugar and the Somme itself in lieu of rum,
would fully appreciate the Little Digger’s position.
They would realise that he was issuing snorts in lieu
of a simple re-enactment by his Government that
would quickly have the young manhood of Australia
doing its merely normal and modest bit without need
of any rampaging at all. They might feel that such
blasts were of passing service only, and that the
evaded alternative would be of more lasting value.
Still, they would give the best friend they ever had
a rousing hand for the fiery quality of his attack.
Others, too, have no doubt assessed Mr. Hughes’s
“War is thundering at our gates!” at its proper worth.
Neither cows nor members of the Stock Exchange
have been noticed lighting out for the safety of the
back paddocks, as they would be sensible to do if
Mr. Hughes was to be taken literally. Neither the
basement at Darlinghurst nor the old well down near
the barn has been feverishly converted into a bomb-
proof shelter.
The general run of people, in fact, are to be
observed going about their ordinary affairs in the
ordinary way. Their attitude would seem to be that
if Mr. Hughes can raise by voluntary enlistment the
forces required to ensure that Australia is adequately
defended —well, more hair on his chest. Also, let
him, by all means, employ whatever snorts he may
think necessary to the purpose. Meanwhile, they
beg to be excused —feeling that he himself would be
first to excuse them —for not taking his snorts, or any-
body else's similar snorts, too literally.
The reason for this attitude is not far to seek.
In the Great War of Words that has raged for so
long it is not surprising that all words have become
casualties. At one time words such as Mr. Hughes
has been firing off would have caused startling re-
actions all over the country. Now people take them
as they take the smell of petrol fumes in the street.
And no wonder, since it is impossible to look into a
newspaper without seeing the paper itself or some-
body reported in it blasting away at somebody, some
nation’s leader or some nation as a whole. Tune in
to broadcasting stations and hear the high excited
voices doing their hysterical bit in the Great War of
Words. Go to the movies, and have more and more
overemphasised words screeched at you in produc-
tions such as "March of Time,” disparaging and
slandering, or working molehill events up into mon-
strous bogey mountains.
Mr. Hughes, of course, is not included in this
indictment. He is doing a solid job, and is traducing
nobody. But all the time this Great War in lieu of a
war goes on—words, words, words; screeched and
snarled and shouted and snorted from every quarter.
From Russia (M. Molotoff):
We say wc will render for every blow, whether on
the cast or the west, two blows on their very skull,
those who want to test our strength and power let
them try.
From Italy C‘Giornale d’ltalia”):
Ihe Jewish mentality is accustomed to subterranean
activities and insidious methods, and is well adapted
to acts of violence. With the cowardice characteristic
° thc racc *. jt Puts a weapon into the hands of a boy
oi 17 Political crimes are planned and committed on
French territory, because they find in the political
atmosphere ol France, with its incomprehension, its daily
slanders and its constant incitements, their first impulse
and their fatal incentive.
From England (“Time and Tide”):
There arc now about 400,000 Jews still existing in
thc Reich. Appalling as the miseries of their exodus
would be, it would be a relief to the world to know
that they were at last beyond the range of Herr Hitler's
hate.
From Maoriland (Mr. Semple):
Hie menace of war and the necessity of the
Dominion providing for its own defence cannot be
ignored when mad dogs like Hitler and Mussolini are
running loose.
From Germany (Herr Hitler):
If Mr. Churchill would mix less with traitors and
emigrants and more with Germans, then perhaps he
would see the madness of his speech.
From England again (Mr. Churchill in response):
Let this great man search his own heart and con-
science before he accuses anyone of being a warmonger.
More from Germany (“Volkischer Beobachter”):
World history has not forgotten the atrocities of the
English in India, where they tied defenceless prisoners
to the muzzles of cannon and then fired the gun. Or
the inhumanities of the Transvaal, where the families
of the Boers were slowly but continuously put to death
in concentration camps.
From U.S.A.
But why continue a list the entire merit of which
is in degree of nastiness, and which anybody who
reads even one newspaper a day, listens to the radio
occasionally or has seen any of the endless procession
of “March of Time” films must know could, with
abundant supply, be carried on from here to the
back cover of The Bulletin. The examples given
are just a haphazard lot of recent utterance ; but
enough, surely, to make it no wonder at all that for
the general run of people the power to excite or even
interest has gone out of all such words, including
Mr. Hughes’s vociferous snort that “War is thunder-
ing at our gates!”
Apart from the discount that must be put on all
such snorts while the Great War of Words continues,
there would seem to be other fair reason for holding
that the general run of people are showing customary
commonsense in ignoring what would otherwise be
a strong incentive to panic. There are such steadying
events as the King’s planned visit to Canada and the
U.S.A. next year and his brother’s appointment as
Governor-General of Australia. The first English
king ever to do so would not thus be preparing to
visit the United States nor would a prince of the blood
be coming to these parts for a term of years if war,
ill literal truth, were “thundering at our gates.”
Also, in the Great War of Words itself there is
a lately increasing expression of optimism and con-
fidence, such as General Smuts’s:
There has been special progress in one direction of
I very profound significance. There has been a far-
! reaching change in the temper of the nations and their
attitude to war. Everywhere the pacific temper is grow-
ing beneath the surface. This is a real advance since
1914, when the warlike temper among, at any rate, some
nations did much to force the hand of their Govern-
ments.
And there is the conclusion to a recent speech by Mr.
Chamberlain, words that could profitably be set up in
large type by business houses suffering through such
jitters as alarmists may still have power to cause, and
by such private individuals as may be feeling too
jumpy to lift the glass that cheers without spilling it:
Christmas, is coming, and I see no reason why we
should not prepare ourselves for the festive season in
a spirit of cheerfulness and confidence. Political condi-
tions in Europe are now settling down to quieter times.
In this brightening atmosphere let us not conjure up
troubles which may never arise. Let us rather set about
our several tasks with a determination that the New Year
shall be more prosperous and happier than the old.
To those may be added such voices as that of Mr.
Bernard Shaw, telling an interviewer the other day
that the prospects of peace were now better than ever.
In the Great War of Words these may not be such
scorching blasters, but as a seasonal tonic for these
times they clearly have their value, and as prophets
they may turn out to be as trustworthy as most.
Youth's Neglected Jobs.
The flapper press and its radio-sisters never tire of
telling us that this is the Age of Youth. Of Free and
Glorious Youth, Beauty in its Body and Romance in
its Soul, starry eyes fixed on a future of the most
ennobling kind, although distinctly sketchy in such
details as have hitherto been revealed for publica-
tion. It is thus a National Duty to ensure that Youth
is given every opportunity to develop perfection in
mind and body alike. Is not Youth of To-day the
Nation of To-morrow?
Judging from illustrative photographs taken on
bathing beaches and such resorts, the flapper-press
age-standard for youth ranges, for picked specimens,
from 18 to 25 among females, and 20 to 28 among
males. Unless the qualities of Glorious Youth wear
off entirely within 10 years, the fact that the majority
of Australia’s voting population is to-day, and for
many years past has been, under 35 makes it surpris-
ing that there is not a large majority of Youth in the
Federal and State Legislatures and Governments.
Ihe younger Pitt was Prime Minister at 24. He
remained P.M. during the tumultuous and dangerous
period of the Napoleonic Wars. Glorious Youth could
take entire charge of every one of our numerous Parlia-
ments at their next elections merely by running and
voting for candidates of contemporary age. But
Youth rarely comes forward for election ; when it
does come forward it hardly ever gets the votes of
Youth. Parliaments and Governments to-day average
Dad’s age, and more.
The Flaming Soul of Youth, we are told, is the
truest medium for the expression of the arts. Did
not Byron, Keats, Shelley, thrill the literary world
with glorious poetry in their middle twenties? Was
not John Delane editor of the “Times” at an even
earlier age? Albrecht Diirer and his modern counter-
type, Norman Lindsay, achieved artistic fame well
before 30. Mozart and Mendelssohn were little more
than children \Vhen they acquired European musical
reputation. But, to-day, is there any example of
flapper-press Youth among the really outstanding
world’s living figures in literature, art or music?
Glorious Youth flames into a special conflagra-
tion when it comes to fighting for its country. The
youthful Napoleon was a general, the youthful Nelson
an admiral—or very nearly—and the youthful Alex-
ander a world conqueror. In Australia we luckily
haven’t had an opportunity so far for testing out the
matter locally, but, from results in the quite extensive
military fields overseas, Youth doesn’t seem to be
producing anything noteworthy in the leadership line.
Youth To-day Comprises the Race-Parents of the
Future—obviously and unavoidably. But here again
Youth doesn’t seem to be standing up to the job.
To keep the native-born population merely at its
present level requires an average of nearly three
children per marriage. The Australian figure is under
two —not enough to replace the parents, let alone make
up wastage from child-mortality. It is a mere matter
of calculation to arrive at the uncomfortable but un-
avoidable fact that, on present birthrates, Australia
in 1975, only 37 years from now, when much of
flapper-press youth will still be under 60, will have a
population of substantially less than half its present
one —under three millions, in fact.
Even if by some miracle Australian birthrates were
doubled immediately, it would take at least 25 years
to begin to catch up with the lag of the last 25 years,
and to push the 1963 population much over the five-
million mark. As for prospects of British or European
immigrants to do Australian Youth’s job in that line,
the United Kingdom in that year will contain only
19 million people in place of its present 45 millions.
Nearly every other European country is in the same
fix.
These forecasts are not guesses, but mathematical
calculations whose accuracy may be judged from the
fact that, when the British Registrar-General’s office
calculated, in 1923, from the results of the 1921
census, the probable population in 1931, the error
was only 0.13 p.c. The figures for the 1941 census
may be presumed to have about the same small error
of 1 in 769 or so. They indicate a drop, slight but
real, and impossible to stop, increasing steadily by
1951, and thereafter rapidly. So do the figures for
Australian population at 10-year intervals in the
future.
What can be done about it? Everything—but
only by Youth’s own efforts. Within three years it
could fill every Australian Cabinet and dominate the
entire country, pass what laws it liked, adopt what-
ever means of enforcing them that it pleased and carry
on without any possibility of defeat so long as the
under-35 proportion of electors remains in a majority.
By taking its parental responsibilities seriously it
could begin to check the population-shortage which is
the gravest of all Australia’s risks of the future. By
organised use of its voting power in favor of com-
pulsory training, it could make Australia safe against
any war catastrophe which did not actually destroy
the Empire.
That it does none of these things, or even makes a
gesture in their direction, affords a complete answer to
flapper-press-radio nonsense about Youth’s immense
and overwhelming importance to the nation to-day.
That importance is no greater than in any previous
period of national history. There is, indeed, much for
which we may be truly thankful in Youth’s neglect of
its political opportunities. A flapper-press Govern-
ment would be the most appalling disaster which Aus-
tralia could be called upon to face.
DICK TAFONE.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Communism's Black Year.
It has been a bad year for Communism and for the
sort of trade-unionism that has come under Com-
munist influence.
Moscow and its panegyrists—the most blatant of
whom are American reporters and English writers of
books boomed by Left Wing Clubs —perpetrated
acres of mush about the Might of the Soviet War
Machine. Their bluff was called in September. The
impression left in impartial quarters was that the Red
Army would be hard put to it to beat the Salvation
Army.
Communists in the Australian Miners’ Federa-
tion brought about another coal strike. They
promised the faithful a speedy triumph, and alleged
that they had £250,000 of “credits” to keep the strike
going. After a week or so they were looking for the
easiest way out, and levies have been extorted from
the men’s wages to meet the losses on the crazy
business.
Reds also organised a boycott on goods con-
signed to Japanese ports. It failed, but there has been
an encore of the idiocy at Port Kembla (N.S.W.). An
embargo on all exports of metals to countries whose
forms of government Reds don’t like has been sug-
gested. It would be an industrial sentence of death to
Port Kembla, Newcastle and Broken Hill. Mean-
while Reds have been blackguarding and demanding
the deportation of the German Consul-General (the
Prime Minister has apologised, as in similar circum-
stances he would have to apologise to Guatemala
or San Salvador) and trying to crab recruiting rallies.
A general strike was the latest Communist im-
provisation in France. The thing was a fiasco, though
two million trade-unionists obeyed the lesser of two
loyalties ; and if the conquest of the French were
part of Hitler’s plan, as is alleged, the Republic
would have been in deadly danger.
Perhaps Western Europe and the democracies
that derive from it will never have real peace till
Communism is outlawed, as the Finns outlaw the
Oriental superstition.
The Value of Time.
November 28 saw “the last day’s sitting of the chain-
stores inquiry, which began on October 27, 1936,” and
was conducted by Browne, J., of the N.S.W. Indus-
trial Commission. On the same day “the inquiry
into the fruit industry, which began on August 30,
1937,” wasi concluded by the Commissioner, Mr.
McCulloch, S.M., and “Mr. McCulloch, S.M., said he
would endeavor to complete his report by the end of
the year.” Mr. McCulloch, it seems, “heard about
4,000,000 words of evidence from 440 witnesses, whose
evidence filled 6500 pages of typescript.”
There are to be new appointments to the Indus-
trial Commission, and to the Workers’ Compensation
Commission. That commission has “about 450 cases”
on its list; as for the Industrial Commission, not
only are “135 cases waiting to be heard,” but “it is
proposed to extend its functions so that it may inves-
tigate food prices, rents and the cost of building
material,” possibly for another two years.
Synchronously with the chain-stores inquiry, a
District Court Judge heard evidence for and against,
and listened to counsel’s addresses relative to, police-
men concerned in the campaign against s.p. betting,
and themselves the subject of charges. The charges
were first ventilated in the Legislative Assembly, and it
was there proposed that they should be referred to
a seleet committee ; but the Government —a royal
spender of loan- and tax-money —decided that this
wouldn’t be doing the thing properly. So it issued a
royal commission and agreed to pay all counsel’s fees,
and there have been three sets of inquiries about the
coppers. The Auditor-General notes that legal bills
to the amount of £15,300 have been footed, and there
are more to come in.
When Napoleon was a republican general, he
beat the Austrians in Italy because, as he put it, their
generals didn’t know the value of time. The beaten
generals blamed the contemporary equivalent of a
Sydney commission, their campaigns being planned
and the movements of their armies controlled
by a so-called Aulic Council sitting at Vienna. Per-
haps a few pointed remarks on the value of time
would be of greater service to the N.S.W. public than
more appointments to the Industrial Commission and
the Workers’ Compensation Commission, and more
royal commissions. They would, of course, have to
come from an authoritative quarter, and their appli-
cation need not be limited, for Justice has a way of
limping in other jurisdictions.
The Example of Sweden.
Bruce Lockhart, who really knows something about
foreign affairs, has written on that subject what
“S. M. Herald” describes as “a tolerant book, a well-
informed book, a constructive book.” It is called Guns
or Butter, and “Granny” quotes it profusely, giving
prominence to a panegyric on Sweden.
Mr. Lockhart thinks that that country has reached
a higher standard of civilisation than any other in
the world; that it has a finer conception of life than
ejther France or Britain; that it is industrially as effi-
cient as the United States and is a century ahead of
that country in social legislation.
Sweden has about the same population as Australia,
and the Swedes, like the Australians, have a strong
dash of Scottish blood. How has their country become
so progressive and so happy? Principally because it has
steadfastly followed a foreign policy which is directly
the opposite of the foreign policy recommended to
Australia by the three Sydney morning papers.
In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries the
Swedes nearly ruined themselves by foreign wars. The
flower of their nation fell uselessly on battlefields in
Germany, Poland and Russia. Beyond the Baltic, they
had great possessions which they lost. Then wisdom
caifie to them: they abandoned foreign adventures,
gave up crusading, refused to recognise that honor or
collective security or something compelled them to rush
to war every time there was a shindy in remote coun-
tries like Abyssinia, Spain or China ; refused also to
go in for scolding, railing at or blackguarding foreign
Governments on the score of their internal adminis-
tration. The result is as Mr. Lockhart describes. By
adopting the same measures Australians can be as
happy, as progressive and as secure as the Swedes.
Another Lockhart observation quoted by
“Granny” is that “we pushed Italy into Germany’s
arms.” And so “we” did —or “we” let Mr. Eden do
it —and it was a most appalling blunder.
Concerning the treatment of Jews, Mr. Lockhart
“is loath to admit that, in Central and Eastern Europe,
as soon as a country acquires more Jews than it can
absorb, a Jewish question at once arises, the pleas of
philosophers, economists and scientists notwithstand-
ing.” It is true of countries other than Central and
Eastern Europe, and “S. M. Herald” is equally loath
to admit it. But Jews are not the only sufferers.
Russian refugees have endured an exile as barren
if not as harsh as that of the Jews. They are the
victims of a civil war as cruel and savage as that of
Spain.
But you would never think it to read papers like the
“S. M. Herald,” which papers nowadays say surpris-
ingly little about Soviet persecutions, purges or
pogroms. They said a great deal about them when
the Soviet was to have been the object of a crusade
led by Mr. Churchill.
As for Britain’s relations with Germany:
In the smaller countries I met no Minister, no
public man who did not believe the key to European
peace was to be found in an Anglo-German under-
standing.
“Tolerant, well-informed and constructive” indeed ;
but how different from the foreign policy of the
“S. M. Herald,” the Sydney “D.T.” and the abusive
“Labor” paper which now calls itself the “Daily
News”!
"Free Minds" at Work.
From H. G. Horner, general manager of station 2GB:
In “Cayenne for Cameron” (B. 30/11 / ’3B) you at least
infer that this station cancelled its proposed broadcasts of
answers to the Intermediate Examinations only after the Post-
master-General “had made a few well-chosen remarks.”
Our decision to postpone the remainder of the Exami-
nation Answers Session until after the examinations had been
concluded was not in any way whatever associated with Mr.
Cameron’s reported remarks.
When the first set of answers was broadcast, following
the protest of the Department of Education we appealed
directly to the parents of children sitting in the examinations
to say whether they wished the broadcasts to continue.
The response was overwhelmingly “Yes” (incidentally,
one of the most definite “Yes” votes came from the headmaster
of one of Sydney’s best-known schools); but we decided in
favor of the minority opinion because some parents suggested
that children who learned of their failure in the first paper
would be so depressed that failure in subsequent papers was
inevitable. That was the reason, and the only reason, for
our decision.
The morning papers reported the P.M.G. as having said
that future broadcasts of this nature might be disallowed;
but right up to this moment [November 30] station 2GB has
not received from the P.M.G. himself, from the P.M.G.'s
Department or from any other source any communication,
official or otherwise, that such action was contemplated.
We reached our decision with a free mind.
Precisely ; and it was no doubt the same with
the principal Sydney morning paper when, haying
referred to the subject on November 24 (its headings
were Examination Broadcast —Protest Made), it pub-
lished the following on November 25:
The broadcasts were discontinued last night....
The Postmaster-General said in Canberra yesterday that
if the broadcasts were continued action would be taken
against the station.
Intelligent anticipation is a useful property of a
free mind.
Fifteen Thousand Alien Refugees.
A ’plane bound from Seattle to San Francisco had to
descend in a hurry on the sea, and five of its com-
pany of seven were drowned. The survivors were the
pilot and a passenger, Mr. Isadore Edelstein, a short
account of whom is given:
Isadore Edelstein was a “lifer,” who was paroled
last week by the Governor of Oregon on agreement
that he would start life anew in Australia. He was
going to San Francisco to join a ship for Sydney.
Read in conjunction with reports that parties of
Jews —presumably refugees from Europe—are speed-
ing across North America to catch the boat for Syd-
ney, and that other parties are coming through the
Suez Canal and round by the Cape, and that the hearts
of Ministers and members at Canberra are almost
breaking for other refugees, presumably still in Europe,
and that friends, acquaintances and co-religionists are
applying on behalf of these unfortunates for permits
by the thousand, this intelligence from the Pacific
Slope is very interesting. Especially as Sydney daily
newspapers and “advanced” trade-union organisations
have been clamoring for the admission of Jews on a
large scale.
Nearly all the refugees are making for Sydney.
A great, sentimental, easygoing city, Sydney must
seem to them an Australian counterpart of New York.
Particularly as the films shown in the cinema theatres
are 77 p.c. American, and American music, magazines,
crime-stories, comic and adventure strips, foreign-
affairs articles, film-actor flapdoodle and radio stuff
have almost as great a vogue.
In 1880 there were 60,000 Jews in New York
City; in 1927 there were 1,765,000. They now run
New York and are strongly influencing the foreign
policy of the United States. Admit to Australia all
who want to come, and in a few years they would be
running Sydney and strongly influencing the foreign
policy of the Commonwealth.
There will be no danger of that if the Govern-
ment’s proposals, as announced in Parliament on
Thursday, are limited to the period stated and prop-
erly administered. They provide (1) for the admission
within three years of “15,000 European refugees, of
good health and character,” and with sufficient landing
money or the equivalent in local patronage, and (2)
for the registration of all aliens ; the Commonwealth
electoral laws to apply, except that the alien (“any
person over 16 who is not a British subject”) will
have to qualify by age and naturalisation for the vote.
Federal Labor and organisations like the N.S.W.
Trades and Labor Council approve. They will now
have to abandon, as utterly illogical, their old demand
that there shall be no more English, Irish, Scotch and
Welsh immigrants “until every idle Australian is
employed.” _
Into the Void.
From “Ente Marid”:
Every year hundreds of young women “disappear.”
When the police made a check of girls who had not voted
at the election nearest to the discovery of the body of “the
pyjama girl,” near Albury (N.S.W.), they were surprised to
find how many had apparently succeeded in departing or
being taken from home without leaving a trace. Some for
whom parents had been searching for years turned up when
they found themselves identified with the Albury victim.
When there is an ordinary disappearance, the procedure
is unobtrusive. Police circulate a description; a portrait is
given to the papers. Sometimes, if there is reason to believe
it justified, there is a bush search or dragging of waterholes.
Few disappearances have caused so much press hysteria
as that of Miss Marjorie Norval, a 30-year-old public-service
typist, who lived in a Brisbane hotel opposite the Town Hall.
Newspapers played her up as a beautiful “socialite,” and
wrapped columns of sickening surmise and sensation round
her absence
Miss Norval left her hotel on November 11, after draw-
ing some money from her bank. Ostensibly, she was to
go to Bundaberg. She was reported to the police as miss-
ing on November 19. On November 24 they announced that
there were suspicions of foul play. Since then they have
scoured tens of thousands of acres along Moreton Bay and
to the south and north of it. They have questioned nearly
1000 taxi- and car-drivers. Beaches, creeks, shallow bays are
all watched.
The R.A.A.F. lent one of its big, slow Seagull amphi-
bians to make a reconnaissance of likely water and creek sur-
roundings. Flying low at Alberton Ferry, on the Albert
River near Beenleigh, it struck a high-tension wire, ploughed
through the mangroves and * came to rest a blazing and
tangled wreck. Four were killed —Max Wiber, a flying
officer, only 22; Albert Milner, a wireless operator, who
leaves a wife and a nine-year-old son; Eric Everett, an
aircraftsman, and George Young, a Digger policeman. The
machine was one of Australia’s fast-dwindling number of
naval reconnaissance units.
While the fuss in Queensland was at its height, the dis-
appearance of an 18-year-old boy, “missing from his home in
Camperdown since last June,” was reported in N. S. Wales;
but the police seem calm about it. So is the press, which
has published the lad’s picture with five lines of description
under it.
As I write the hunt for the young woman goes on in
a blaze of publicity.
A Staggering Change.
Figures for Christmas mails carried by air are rather
astonishing. So great has been the success of the
from London, Hd., that it has been neces-
sary to put into commission 65 giant machines—3l
flying-boats, 33 land ’planes and the Maia-Mercury
combination —to carry letters to and from Australia.
Delivery will be along 12,000 miles of route, and in
five weeks the machines will among them have flown
over 1,000,000 miles.
Combined with the recent non-stop Vickers-
Wellesley flights, the Christmas present of a new era
in Australia’s linkage with the outside world is one to
be viewed with mixed feelings. Though Australians
have designed and Australians are building ’planes,
not one of the 65 has been built in Australia.
They are comparatively slow —average speed of
flying-boats is at least 20 p.c. below that of the fastest
Douglases and Lockheeds. Even at that, the perform-
ance brings home the knowledge that there is one
Power in the world, fortunately Britain, which in an
emergency could mobilise first-line commercial aircraft
alone sufficient to carry 1200 men to Australia.
Defence needs make it of paramount importance
to Australia and to Britain, and to Maoriland also,
that there should be a big Australian aircraft industry.
Asking for Trouble.
“Chevroford” : Every year before Christmas, Mel-
bourne authorities set up a safety lane in the Fitzroy
Gardens, and, with a view to the testing of equip-
ment, motorists are invited to run at a dummy.
About 0.00001 p.c. avail themselves of the privilege.
The Traffic Advisory Committee lately considered
making inspection of cars compulsory; this is de-
manded twice a year in Maoriland. The proposal was
rejected on the extraordinary ground that a certificate
of mechanical worthiness would not necessarily mean
that a car was in good order at the time of a subse-
quent accident. The object of inspection is to help
to prevent accidents, not to provide evidence of a
motorist’s liability after one.
Everybody knows what will happen at Christmas.
Many a young man will pay a small deposit on a
second-hand car and, armed with a lethal weapon
and a rudimentary knowledge of how to control it,
have a good time at Mallacoota or Port Fairy.
Girl, beer and baggage will be put aboard and
off they will go. Some of the cars will come back.
Others will be left to perish by the wayside. Statis-
ticians could win money by wagering how many of
the occupants will return on stretchers.
On a given day 112,087 vehicles travelled on Vic.
highways: 97.78 p.c. were motor vehicles. Goodness
knows what percentage of the total will be on the
prowl at Christmas, but it will be a big proportion.
Letting the mug driver and the dud vehicle loose in
vast masses on the basis of a voluntary submission to
inspection is asking for trouble. ✓


Give
CRAVEN A
tk&XmaA'
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
2247
POLITICAL POINTS
TOO BUSY FOR MEALS.
“There were no breaks for meals until the House
of Reps, had finished with the Estimates.”
-—Canberra item.
In the House where the cream of our law-
makers sit,
Our brightest exponents of wisdom and wit,
What little allowance we make, to be sure,
For the sharp deprivations they have to endure
And the hardships with which they are forced
to contend
Ere a wearisome session can come to an end!
On their stern sense of duty what light it
reveals
To learn that they’re sometimes too busy for
meals.
It’s needless to tell you that such a demand
Would be more than less eminent workers
would stand,
Be they lumpers who graft on the wharves and
the piers,
Or toilers whose. tools are the pick or the
shears.
It’s safe to assume that there isn’t a man
Who’d iorfeit his right to time off for his scran ;
But the chap in political problems who deals
May have to surrender his regular meals.
A sandwich may help him to stick to his task;
Nor is he forbidden a nip from the flask
Or even to risk a precarious run
}' or a strong cup o’ tea or a heartening bun.
But where erudite tribunes discuss and debate
Grave matters and topics of moment and weight
I here’s many a vehement patriot feels
It’s hardly the time to insist upon meals.
You may harbor a fancy our lawmakers feast
From menus that run to three courses at least,
I hat Chablis or hock with their oysters they
take,
And tankards of stout with their porterhouse
steak.
Perhaps; but at seasons their leaders appoint
There’s not even a chance for a cut from the
joint
Or a sausage-and-mash. And the picture
appeals
Of martyrs to duty too busy for meals!
N -s.w. Iford.
* * sje
France, divided into two camps since
the Communists became formidable and
threw their weight behind a Russian
alliance and a so-called Popular Front,
has passed precariously through a one-
day general strike. What was it our
crusaders were saying in September?
Oh, yes—French, Russians and Czecho-
slovaks were united as one man, and,
if we went to war to prevent the Sudeten
Germans joining the Germans of the
Reich, our allies were sure to win.
“Britain is ringed-in with enemies! War
is thundering at our gates!” Grim reali-
ties? No, only Billy blithering like blazes
while businessmen were feeding.
Menzies, with the frank acknowledg-
ment that “I have in the course of my life
used the expression ‘sovereign States’ ” :
There is no greater fallacy than this
theory of sovereign States. Sovereignty be-
longs to the people of Australia.
Precisely ; and, as Archie Cameron puts
it, this country is trying to get along with
“half-sovereign” Parliaments. Six of the
Parliaments, like the coins, are • out of
date.
A tax of £5 15s. a ton has been added
to the market price of flour, which at
the week-end was £7 10s. a ton. Not
enough to make 1938 wheat profitable
for those who are getting crops—many
aren’t—but more than enough to make
bread dear. And Gullett is right—the
poor family man will have to pay more
per child than it will cost the rich man
on his own consumption.
Herbert Jenner, “22, laborer,” and
Selwyn Wallace, “23, traveller,” have
been found guilty of, and sentenced to
death for, the murder of manufacturer
Sherry, who was robbed and shot in a
Clifton Hill (Vic.) street.. Evidence was
that each admitted having been at the
shooting but denied having fired the shot.
There was to have been “no gunplay,”
one said; “I’ll take the rap for the hold-
up,” said the other. They learned that
jargon, and probably got the whole idea,
from American films or American crime-
stories. On the face of it, they were
boy-victims of the depression, abandoned
to their own devices—as were thousands
of lads who have managed to go straight
—left to grow up without steadying
trades and to soak themselves in Ameri-
can gangster-films, crime-stories and
smutty magazines. Can Victoria, can
Australia, plead that it is without sin?
U.A.P. Assemblymen in Macquarie-
street, Sydney, delight in heaping
humiliations on Premier Stevens, hailed
as the Man of Destiny by the Stunt
Press. When it came out that the price
of bricks had been raised 3s. per thou-
sand they carried a motion against
Stevens’s Government, with the aid of the
two Labor factions. Stevens sold the
State brickworks and blithely guaranteed
“The seven Governments’ Christmas present to the family man is dearer bread.”
“It’s something LIKE a present for a docile boy.”
the overdrafts of co-operative building
societies; and the price of bricks per
1000 has soared from 50s. to 68s.
The leader of the Rumanian Fascists
—called the Iron Guard —and 13 fol-
lowers, all prisoners, were “shot dead in
trying to escape from their guards.” That
is “S.' M. Herald’s” version, and
“Granny” improves the shining hour in
a leader:
Fortunately the incident that culminated
in the shooting of Codreanu and his
fellow-convicts chiefly reveals that King
Carol is not afraid to deal boldly with an
illegal terrorist organisation, even when it
boasts of Nazi sympathies.
Fortunately ! The Old Girl will really
have to be watched.
In Australia harbors are (as a rule)
controlled by boards responsible, after
a fashion, to State Ministers called
“Colonial” or Chief Secretaries —and
railways by six commissioners, with six
other State Ministers for nominal bosses.
Defence was, until recently, attended to
by one Commonwealth Minister. Now
there are two. In South Africa one man.
Pirow, is Minister of Defence and Har-
bors and Railways. Pirow has been visit-
ing Europe, and an English writer has
learned that the man is not satisfied with
the 9.2’s which are thought good enough
to defend Australian ports, but is order-
ing 15-inchers for Cape Town and Dur-
ban. Perhaps big powers beget big ideas.
From Brisbane:
Queensland’s 10 Ministers set the taxpayer
back £5878 in travelling expenses for the 1937-38
year; and the bills have been discussed as
animatedly as the Ithaca election affair. Hotels
collected £2509, and “incidentals” absorbed
£1628. Percy Pease, of Lands, topped the score as
usual with £1559, composed of £682 for hotels,
£387 for incidentals, £377 for country car-hire,
£125 for Brisbane car-hire and £27 for fares—
rail, steamer or ’plane. Like his colleagues Percy
is gold-passed over all railways. The Agri-
cultural Bulcock narked his side with the
miserable total of £B4, of which Brisbane car-
hire was under £2 10s., incidentals a shameful
£7, and pubs a measly £52. Something ought
to be done about it.
Not content with having thousands
of hopelessly indebted loan-settlement
farmers on its books, the Sydney Gov-
ernment has “bought the Barooga estate,
near the Victorian border, for closer-
settlement purposes.” The area is 8721
acres, the price £6 15s. an acre, and 16
wheatgrowers are to be “accommodated.”
The purchase was approved of last week ;
(he bill relieving the 16 farmers of the
balance of their debts is expected to be
introduced at the end of 1943.
An almost-forgotten Sydney Premier
named Dooley has bobbed up again to
certify that Savage, of Maoriland, has
“brought in the new era of security,
happiness and prosperity for a11....by
driving the money-changers and interest-
mongers from the Temple.” Poor
Savage only wishes he could believe it.
With imports chasing exports and Lon-
don funds evaporating at a great rate,
Savage has been reduced to reviving the
war-time slogan “Produce, produce!”
In these days it sounds almost as incon-
gruous as “Hang the Kaiser.”
It has been coolly suggested to Aus-
tralians that they should admit vast
masses of foreign Jews regardless of their
politics because Miss Dorothy Thompson
has taken up their cause. Miss Dorothy
Thompson—so-called because she is Mrs.
Somebody-or-other—is one of the blatant
band of pink American reporters who
have been wandering through Europe
and Asia deciding the fate of nations and
issuing prophecies galore. Events have
made their writings preposterous, but the
more they thud the wilder they grow.
A bowled-out American reporter
named John Gunther has issued a Warn-
ing to the British—though, since Munich,
he hasn’t been able to conceal his con-
tempt for them.
Hitler has wanted an air pact in the
West for a long time. The Power that is
strongest always takes the initiative in try-
ing to make other Powers accept perma-
nent weakness.
Then Hitler was tricked or intimidated
into signing the naval agreement, which
binds him not to exceed 35 p.c. of British
tonnage. Gunther can’t have it both
ways.
When Westralians were in their sepa-
ratist mood, the strongest vote for seces-
sion was cast in the farming electorates.
The farmers have now been warned by
their Country-party organ, the “Primary
Producer,” that they won’t be able to
“maintain” this “attitude” ; pressure of
“events which necessitate quick and
united decision and action” will be too
strong for them: “Australia appears to
be moving inevitably towards unifica-
tion.” A very significant admission.
Alfred Deakin was Tommy White’s
father-in-law, and when a Minister
Tommy followed one excellent Deakin
precedent. He paid official visits to New
Guinea in 1936, to Maoriland in the
early part of 1938 and to Britain later
on ; and on each occasion he refunded
the unexpended portion of his allowance.
Thus the Treasury received from Tommy
£2O in September, 1936, £4O in February,
1938, and £B5 in October, 1938. No
other member of the legion of touring
Ministers is known to have done what
Deakin did.
Dunstan, squealing against national
union, had the gall to declare that “the
Commonwealth already possesses com-
plete power in regard to defence”—this
when the Commonwealth has no control
over State railways or roads or ports.
Possibly Dunstan figures invasion as a sort
of wasp, to be repelled by Australia’s
becoming a stationary object.
It transpires that Sydney’s Water Board
blundered —for the onety-oneth time —
when it announced that its absent presi-
dent, Upton, had authorised the laying
of a main to one Camden Park property
without its sanction (B. 30/11/’3B). The
Camden Park reply is convincing:
Before the metropolitan water supply was
installed, we had a running river whence
' we could draw clean and wholesome water.
Now we have a gutter.
About 1903 we got on the metropolitan
main on condition that we bore the ex-
pense of laying the pipes. This supplied
one dwelling, but made a considerable area
liable to water rates. During 10 years the
company has paid an average of £lBl a
year.
Last year, desiring to derive some
benefit from this expenditure, we applied
to the board for the extension. This, as the
board has now discovered, it granted con-
ditionally on the company repaying cost
of laying the main. Persons in respon-
sible public positions should inform them-
selves before they express themselves in
criticism.
And so they should.
“F. 5.,” his protest:-
A deputation from the council of Melbourne
mucical societies waited on Premier Dunstan,
tqfid him about the projected 1939 festival of
music and asked him for a £lOOO guarantee
against loss. The festival is to last a fortnight,
and will include a children’s concert, an orches-
tral concert under some visiting conductor,
concerts by the Philharmonic, Liedertafel and
other societies, suburban concerts, park and
garden concerts, church and chamber music,
vocal and instrumental concerts and lectures.
Dunstan extended the usual sympathy, but in
view of the State’s financial position could
promise only £lOO. Yet the State’s financial
position is sound enough for him to contem-
plate a £lOO,OOO luxury palace for the police.
No doubt the police deserve it, but if there
were more interest in music there would be
less necessity for police. There might even be
a reduction in holdup murders.


The UNION BANK of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
: :
'
sis ?M
A-
* > *« , <*. v • „, jA „ ,
m ■
-- A. si < "T,
■ •*?*•
mm
4hi
■
&*» l
r,r n "££. 7
'i ■ t "A, "* <,4, /o' " ■ ;
.V ' :-v •<■-•■■ r
; ' '• ■ • •< ■' - ••• * .
<■*> av&t?A but ******l y?.^***
,* * . ;L . .
MM}?* •
. , -•>*■'■ ■
>
m
:.*... J
A FARMING DISTRICT IN NORTH WESTERN TASMANIA
NATIONHOOD . .
Within the span of a century Australia has passed from
an isolated Colonial outpost to Nationhood.
Immense tracts of primeval forest have been reclaimed;
vast distances conquered; millions of acres placed under
cultivation; wonderful pastoral industries have been
developed; tens of thousands of miles of highways and
railways have been constructed; large scale water con-
servation and irrigation schemes have been successfully
undertaken; manufacturing industries have been estab-
lished; cities and towns of world-wide importance have
grown up.
Today, alongside the Motherland, Australia takes her
place among the Nations of the World.
Closely linked with this progress is the Union Bank, which
for more than a century has unfalteringly provided helpful
finance and security for those engaged in developing this
vast continent. As one of the country's pioneer banking
institutions it is proud of the part it has played.
UNION BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1837 6*^3
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
HEAD OFFICE LONDON 71 CORNHILL, E.C.3.


“This is
■wh e * e i
• »\
come m
said **»* W “ lker
v: : X;
etrjs
- i
\
m
*
m
i's ...J
wmmm
.
r
“There’s always the warmest of welcomes
for Johnnie Walker at Christmas as at
all other times. This fine whisky, so per-
fectly matured, so skilfully blended, is
famous for its smoothness and distinctive
flavour. Make sure, then, that you have
a bottle of Johnnie Walker in the house
for Christmas, so that you and your friends
can enjoy Scotch whisky at its very best.”
For your convenience the half-bottle and smaller flasks
are made to fit the pocket—both ways.
m
■:-w
-JOHNNIE
WAhKER
Born 1820 still going strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK,
SYDNEY


The Richardson Chain Hotel
It
4
3-3.
m
m
mm
i
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Kailway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
“Phone: M 4 14 1 (1 0 lines) .
et:
; TO AND FROM
* TASMANIA
AT MODERATE COST
:
Take your Camera. Enter
for Tasmanian Photographic
Competition.
CASH PRIZES. NO
ENTRANCE FEE!
Plan to spend your
next holiday in
TASMANIA . .
The lovely Island State provides a complete change of
scene, in a bracing climate. Incomparable scenery,
historic buildings that stir the imagination, sporting
facilities innumerable.
Get full details of all-inclusive tours from your State
Capital and return.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST DEPT.
RESERVATION
NOW
MAKE
VOUR
Sydney 4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.O.
Melbourne The Block, 286 Collins Street
Adelaide 12 Pirie Street
Brisbane 196 Adelaide Street
Perth A.M.P. Building, William Street
Hobart Macquarie and Murray Streets
/
Out
SIZE 72x60'
PERSONAL ITEM S
Few followers of the Inky Way were
more beloved by those of his fellow-way-
farers who knew the man himself than
was “Johnny” Sandes. An Irishman out of
Cork, he was educated at Trinity College,
Dublin, and at Magdalen, Oxford, came
to Australia just 50 years ago, and almost
immediately joined the literary staff of
Melbourne “Argus.” For many years the
“Passing Show” column was all his, un-
der the pen-name of “Oriel,” and it con-
tained some of the best verse he wrote,
which is saying a good deal. He turned
out fine prose, too. It was his good for-
tune to work with other clever men —such
as Donald Macdonald on the “Argus” and
John Farrell, Harry Taperell and Tom
Courtney on the old “Daily Telegraph”
in Sydney—and always in the completest
harmony. No one could fail to like or
get on with John Sandes. Although many
of the bright young things who bring out
present-day newspapers in Australian
capitals may not realise it, a giant of their
profession passed out in Sydney last week.
Alexander Mair, Albury rep. in the
N. S. Wales Assembly since 1932,
achieved Cabinet rank a few months ago
as Minister of Labor and Industry, and
in the latest reshuffle relieved Premier
Stevens as Treasurer. Born in Melbourne
48 years ago, and educated at Wesley Col-
lege, young Mair served his apprentice-
ship as a blacksmith in a Vic. country
town, but he soon found more lucrative
lines of business, and \sas able to retire
from commerce several years ago, settling
on a grazing and farming property at
Albury. Used to play football and
ALEXANDER MAIR.
cricket; still enjoys a stiff game of tennis.
Principal hobby, bird-study and building
up his already large aviary.
General Harry Chauvel, who takes the
place of recently-dead R. B. McComas as
chairman of the Australian board of
General Accident, was born at Tabulam,
N. S. Wales, 73 years ago. The son of
a grazier, he was an ardent volunteer,
joining the N. S. Wales Cavalry at 21
and the Queensland Mounted Infantry
when he removed to the northern State
a few years later. After a year in the
Queensland Mounted Police with rank as
sub-inspector, he joined the Queensland
permanent forces. The S’African War
brought him a command and the C.M.G.,
and the Great War, which he saw through
from start to finish, taking in Gallipoli
and the Sinai and Palestine campaigns,
added K.C.M.G., K.C.B. and G.C.M.G.
to his decorations. He got his step to
full general in 1929.
Next Saturday surf lifesavers and Par-
liamentarians will gather at Tamarama
beach (N. S. Wales) to applaud while
Adrian Curlewis makes a presentation
to George B. Philip. Philip is known
to thousands of N. S. Wales kids as a
publisher of school books, but it is in
another branch of education that he
earned the respect of surfers. For 32
years he has been president of the Tama-
rama S.L.S. Club, and he personally
trained most of the stalwarts of the
president-day S.L.S. Association. Philip,
who is getting along in years, has re-
signed his presidency.
Major-General Thomas Blarney, just
appointed Controller-General of the Re-
cruiting Secretariat, should be the right
man to stimulate recruiting. He was
Chief Commissioner of Police from
1925 to 1936, after the Melbourne force
had fallen into low esteem on account of
the police strike, and was well liked by
his men, who didn’t misinterpret his free-
and-easy manner for easygoing. His
military record is outstanding. He. was
appointed to the permanent staff, A.M.F.,
in 1906 and to the general staff of the
A.I.F. in 1914. He was C.O. of the
2nd Battalion in 1916, Brig.-General,
General Staff in 1918, and Chief of Staff
in 1919. Then after the war, in which
he got seven mentions in dispatches, he
filled one important military post after
another, including Second Chief of
General Staff from 1924 to 1925. He is
56 and was born at Wagga (N.S.W.).
Wilfred Robert Dovey, the tall K.C.
who assisted the commission in the 45-
day inquiry in Melbourne on doctors’
remuneration under national insurance,
has never functioned in a wordier legal
battle, but has been through a longer
one. In 1932 he was briefed in the case
of Smith v. Commonwealth Life Assur-
ance. After the preliminary canter it
had a 33-days run at the Supreme Court,
then went on appeal to the Full Court,
which sent it back to the Supreme
Court. It hadn’t rested long before an-
other appeal to the Full Court returned it
to the High Court, which ordered a fresh
trial. Dovey was born 42 years ago at
Bathurst, and was educated at Sydney
Grammar and University. After two years
of the Great War he became associate to
the Chief Justice of Australia. He was
admitted to the Bar in 1922, and is one
of its most impressive pleaders.
The Rev. E. H. Faulkner was for 13
years principal of St. Paul’s Training
School for Boys at Newhaven (Vic.).
When Faulkner got his job the home was a
State institution in an advanced condition
of dilapidation. He raised £15,000, the
home was reopened, £25,000 spent on
new buildings and a £5OOO chapel added.
Later the Seaside Garden Home was
handed over to him and made into a
junior school. 111-health has com-
pelled the energetic man to send in his
resignation. Faulkner is an engineer, an
athlete and a black-and-white artist, and
in the Great War served in the Australian
Flying Corps.
Hugh Ward, one of the best-known
theatrical men in Australia, is an Aus-
tralian by adoption. He was born in
Philadelphia 67 years ago, and was a
rising young comedian with experience
of management when he came this side
30 years or more ago to take American
musicomedy hits on tour through Aus-
tralasia for the Firm. He retired from
the stage to become managing director of
Williamson’s, later controlling an entre-
preneur business of his own. Has been
a great worker for patriotic and charit-
able causes. Two sons. are doing well
out of Australian fishes —one as an
ichthyologist, who is consulted by the
world’s greatest museums, the other as
a super-fisherman, one of the pioneers of
HUGH J. WARD.
(Modelled by Frith.)
refrigerated-fish transport. Father Hugh,
retired these 12 years, lives at Potts Point,
Sydney, and enjoys life.
Wing-Commander A. H. Cobby, who,
as controller of operations for the Civil
Aviation Board, has had to face the
biggest barrage of questions at the
Kyeema inquiry, though a young man,
is a war veteran with many decorations
to his credit. He was captain and flight-
commander in the 4th Squadron, A.F.C.
After the Great War he served with the
R.A.A.F., and since 1936 has been with
the Department of Defence. He was
born at Prahran, Vic., and educated at
Brighton.
Busking his way to England is a young
Melbourne fiddler and song-writer, Frank
Ottenson. He was in London for four
years from 1929, but the coming of the
talkies ruined what chances anybody out-
side the American torch-song school had
of breaking into the song-writing busi-
ness. Now he’s going back to give them
another go. Ottenson pedalled a bicycle
to Sydney, carrying fiddle and sketch
book. He’s doing a “versatile vagabond”
vaudeville act for a couple of weeks;
then, after a week or so in Melbourne,
he’ll be looking for spuds to peel or
dishes to wash in a ship bound for the
Old Dart.
“E.C.”: If there’s to be a muster of
Maori war veterans (B. 2/11/’3B) don’t
forget Charles Brandon Wooster, now
approaching his century, who lives at
Nabiac (North Coast, N.S.W.). He
served in Captain Haultain’s company of
the Waikato Regiment, commanded by
Colonel Drury, and is probably the
oldest Maori War veteran living and the
oldest British soldier in the Common-
wealth. He was born in London, and
after a varied career at sea and on land
settled at his present address about 50
years ago.
S.A. sent two delegates to the
conference of commercial broadcasting
stations at Jervis Bay, and neither of
them lived to return. Lincoln, of SKA,
taken ill on the outward journey, died
in Melbourne; A. L. Holtze, of SAD,
was killed in an overturn of his car when
nearly back home. He was born in
Darwin, but went to Adelaide as a child
with his father, curator of the Botanic
Gardens there ; took up journalism, was
on Sydney “Daily Telegraph” and Bris-
bane “Mail,” represented Sydney papers
in Melbourne, and finally in 1925 re-
turned to Adelaide, where he became
chief of staff of the “Advertiser.” When
that paper established a radio station he
became its manager, controlling also
allied stations at Crystal Brook
in the north, Murray Bridge on
the river, and Mt. Gambier in
the south-east. Fifty-five at the
end.
Edward G. Baker, wiped out
by an accident at his garage at
Rose Bay (N.S.W.), was Govern-
ment Printer of Papua for over
20 years. Before he got the
Government job he launched the
“Papuan Times,” New Guinea’s
first newspaper. He left the
Territory about five years ago
and took on the motor business.
Fifty-two at the end.
A man who began his career
on the Inky Way and ended it
on the heavenly ladder died the
other day in Tasmania. He was
the Ven. A. T. Whitington,
Archdeacon Emeritus of Hobart
and Canon of St. David’s
Cathedral. Born in Adelaide in
1853, he joined the “Register,”
and was for some years its
brightest literary star, as well as
a prominent social figure. He
was ordained in 1877 in Adel-
aide, went to the Brisbane
diocese in 1891, was a mission-
ary in New Guinea for a while,
and in 1893 was transferred to
Hobart Cathedral. No ordinary
journalist, he was no ordinary sky pilot,
and his work on the life of William Grant
Broughton, first Bishop of Australia, is
highly regarded in ecclesiastical circles.
He was also the Church’s counsellor in
legal matters.
Just on 40 years ago, two young fellows
named Simpson, brothers from Christ-
church (M.L.), arrived in Sydney look-
ing for fight. The younger Simpson had
a good head on his shoulders, but his
assets as pugilist were confined to game-
ness and a stout constitution ; on' the
other hand, the elder brother, known as
“Otto Cribb,” was hailed as a world-
beater in Sydney and San Francisco —
“he is a fighter from Fightville,” said
Larry Foley—till disaster overtook him.
After “Otto’s” untimely death, the
younger Simpson travelled in the U.S.A.
till he settled in St. Louis as a manufac-
turer of plantation hats. Sydney has
always haunted him, and, nowadays a
solid block of a man, who looks younger
than his years, he is revisiting it on holi-
day, accompanied by a charming Ameri-
can wife.
Passed on in London, publisher Hugh
R. Dent, just after his return from a
visit to Australia. He was a son of the
J. M. Dent who first realised the com-
mercial value of cheap and good editions
of the classics. “Everyman’s Library”
was the enormously successful conse-
quence. On a previous visit to Australia
Dent, junr., expressed a desire to see at
least one Australian classic in his father’s
famous library. Various authorities and
societies came to his assistance, and on
his voyage home he had upwards of 40
volumes to select from. He found nothing
to fulfil his firm’s conception of a classic.
For the Term of His Natural Life
disappointed him profoundly. He dis-
missed it as “a mixture of excellent
photography and poor sentiment.” George
Mackaness’s Bligh book has, however,
been added to “Everyman’s.”


MAKE
WINES
YOUR choice
For XMAS
Grown ahd Bottled by
GRAHAM BROS. Pty. Ltd.,
RUTHERGLEN, VICTORIA.
cs*°
A PURE
ENGLISH
BEVERAGE CIDER.
Obtainable in Pints and Half Bottles
from our
NETHERBY CELLARS,
45 Queen Street, Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 559 1.
DEAFNESS HAS BEEN DEFEATED
I I
The outstanding advance in Aids for Hearing
in recent months is the new
ARDENTE BONAL OSCILLATOR.
MANY WHO HAVE BEEN DEAF FOR YEARS HAVE
BY ITS MEANS HAD
GOOD HEARING RESTORED TO THEM.
THE BONAL OSCILLATOR is small, light, and inconspicuous.
IT IS WORN BEHIND THE EAR, and sounds are conveyed to the
Auditory Nerve through the bones of the head.
THERE ARE NO MECHANICAL NOISES. You hear clearly, without
strain or embarrassment.
DEMONSTRATION of this method of "Hearing Without Ears”
gladly arranged for in the quiet of your own home if in Sydney or
Suburbs. We test your hearing scientifically with the AUDIO-
METER and adjust the device to suit your needs. No obligation.
inrlnrior P r ° vic ted good hearing to some hundreds of thousands throughout the world. It
If nnct?h?«! rer^n U!e * U m °^ ern device, electrical and non-electrical, for assisting the hearing.
Aids Service*" 3 P ersona "V* otherwise telephone 8W&624, or write for full particulars of our Hearing
BETTER HEARING.
DEAF AIDS LTD.,
WATSON HOUSE - 9-13 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
THE IDEAL XMAS GIFT!
SCHICK ELE dr T y R,C
SHAVERS
Available in following models: 6, 12, 32
volt and 110 and 240 volt A.C./D.C.
Price . £5/10/-
From all Leading Stores.
SMOKE-OH!
Too Right!
“Worms can always be found in the garden.”
, —Fishing note.
Though 1 would fain be found elsewhere,
My wife commands me wield a hoe;
Worms are in gardens found, / know —
You’ll nearly always find me there.
H. M.
i* + + t
_ “Stated that there is only one bore on the
Central Australian goldfields.”
Who probably reiterates that “there’s
gold in them there hills! ’’
*l*
The trouble with some jieople is that
when opportunity knocks at their door
they order it to go round to the trades-
men’s entrance.
•S* *3>
Report that price of pigs has fallen
sounds like a slip of the pen.
*l* *l* ►!* .J.
“A sea captain claims that 'he has drunk
beer in every country of the world.”
Every p’int of the compass.
•i* *i* v
“Many men, living quiet married lives, have
never been in a court or experienced a trial.”
— Women’s paper.
Never experienced a trial ?
4* + 4* 4*
“Many investigators have, used the coefficient
ol correlation as a measure of the linkage of
genes governing quantitative" characters. Any
coefficient thus obtained is subject to a com-
bination of inter-genotypic (due to gene linkage)
and intra-genotypic (due to micro-environment
or physiology) correlation, the relative value of
which cannot be determined. Thus it is useless
as an indication of gene, linkage. The effect
91 micro-environmental and some physiological
intra-genotypic correlations can be eliminated
by correlating values of characters for each
sample derived from separate experiments!”
— “C.S. and I.R. Journal.”
And that’s how news is made!
•I* -b >s•
We don’t hear so much these days of
men who go down to the sea in ships,
but plenty is being said of girls who go
down to it in slips.
*l* 4*
“The dining- and living-room is an “L”-
shaped apartment.” f
‘S. M. Herald” building note.
When hubby rolls home after midnight
and his wife is determined to nag he
goes straight into his own little “L.”
•I* 4* 4* 4*
Once in a lifetime dreams come true.”
, — “Woman.”
And then, too, you’re usually asleep.
*J* 4* 4*
“Brilliant marriages are less likely for manne-
quins. — Women’s paper.
The trouble is they look for model
husbands.
“Two women in yacht’s crew.”— “D.T.”
Now there’s sure to be squally weather.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
There may be fn the future a craze for the
wearing of dog-fur as a fashion.” — “D.T.”
And the women will still growl because
they have to wear last year’s Alsatian.
Well Red.
“The flapper of to-day is quite incapable of
blushing,” declares octogenarian.
This gibe at modern girls to me
Is only senile rot,
For really anyone can see
They color up a lot!
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“If the husband is anxious for her to return
let him provide a taxi.” —Judge in Divorce.
Yes, at least let him meter half-way.
4* 4* 4* 4*
"Workmen excavating near a Durban race-
course discovered a skeleton with its head buried
in its hands.” —News item.
But the betting tickets had long since
crumbled to dust.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“With the boy who is wilfully disobedient
stern measures must be adopted.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Stern measures, most certainly.
4* 4* 4« 4*
Definition News: A microscopic
fragment of ancient history entirely sur-
“They say it's domestic trouble."
rounded by red-hot tips, beauty hints,
film-star gush and syndicated serial strips.
*l* 4* 4* 4*
“Some film stars, had greatness thrust upon
them, but most had to work hard for it.”
—American visitor.
Some had greatness thrust upon them,
Says this tourist, come to con us ;
Some by solid toil achieved it,
But too many grate upon us.
I Was a Legionnaire.
XII.
Those ignorant of active-service, con-
ditions in the Foreign Legion might sup-
pose that life in an isolated outpost such
as Fort Baksheesh would be pleasant,
an easy matter of lying around in the
shade waiting for the men on guard on
the fort’s open roof to give the alarm
when an Arab harka was sighted ; and,
after mowing them down, to loll around
again. Actually, training is not slack-
ened in the slightest degree.
Doubtless the authorities held the
theory that the enervating North African
climate has a deleterious effect on the
memory, for each day we had an hour
forming fours and another left- and
right-wheeling. But our most important
duty was “sand-listening.” For two
hours before and after dawn and dusk,
which are the periods when an attack is
most likely, the whole garrison was
drawn up outside the fort in echelon
formation, each man lying prone in per-
fect silence with his best ear to the sand.
In the interests of economy no field-
glasses are issued to officers, and this
method of detecting the approach of far-
distant horsemen has been evolved.
The strategy adopted prior to my
arrival at the fort was rather crude—
simply to wait until the enemy got within
range and then blaze away, hoping for
the best. Though fairly effective, it was
not subtle enough, and I propounded to
the O.C. my plan. It was simplicity
itself: that the first three rounds should
be of blank cartridge.
My idea was that the Arabs, on seeing
that they had suffered not one casualty
from the opening burst of fire, would
naturally assume that the defenders were
mug marksmen. Lulled thereby into a
false sense of security, they would, in-
stead of their usual practice of scattering
and indulging in sharpshooting, charge
blindly on, chock-full of confidence and
arrogance, only to meet a withering blast
of lead when they presented a target
impossible to miss. This suggestion the
O.C. promptly adopted, and he would
have bestowed on me the traditional kiss
had I not been wearing seven weeks’
stubbly growth. As it was, he promised
to recommend that my pay be doubled.
The days that followed passed not un-
pleasantly for me. Firstly, I welcomed
the intellectual exercise which the subse-
quent discussions on strategy with Lieut.
Bleauxflai afforded; secondly, in my
spare time I daydreamed of what I
would do with my: extra ha’penny a day
when we got back to barracks. One
thing, I would not be tempted to over-
indulge the fleshpots. Perhaps I could
afford to essay a flight into the realms
of romance with Blanquette, the fille du
regiment.
Admittedly, she was not a bottle-
blonde with a streamlined chassis
such as I admire; in fact, she was a
couple of feet thick, spoke in a basso
and, by the bluish tint of her pendulous
jowls I suspected she was a shave-daily
girl. Still, as Plutarch aptly said, when
the candles are out all women are fair.
In any case, she presided over the wine-
cask, and was therefore desirable, and on
twice the pay of my fellow-legionnaires
I would have a distinct advantage in the
race for the lady’s affections.
One morning, after currycombing Mus-
tapha, 1 noticed he was.lame. His rubber
anti-skid shoes had worn down on one
side (owing, no doubt, to the fact that I
had ridden him - 300 miles .with a badly-
balanced load) and they needed retread-
ing. I informed the fourrier-sergent, who
told me to fill in form X 2478 in tripli-
cate and take it for counter-signature to
the O.C.
When I paraded before that officer and
told him about Mustapha he didn’t have
the manners to look up, but just
mumbled something which I took to be
“take him out and have him shot.” Now,
ordinarily, I would have queried this-
astonishing order, but it coincided so per-
fectly with my own desires that, beyond
a curt “Main oui, mon officier,” 1 re-
mained silent,
Have him shot! If anyone was to
do the shooting 1, his inveterate enemy,
would perform that agreeable task. I
dashed off to carry out the order before
the officier changed his mind., Putting a
clip of five cartridges in the magazine of
my Lebel rifle I led the oont outside the
fort. It was midday, and all was still
save for the sound of the smoke from the
cookhouse as it rose straight up in the
motionless air.
Putting the camel broadside on to me
so that it would offer
a larger target, T
took a rapid anato-
mical survey of the
brute to determine
the best place to hit
him. A camel’s
bones are hard, and
I didn’t want the
bullets ricochetting
off them to come
back and domino
me. Selecting and
marking with a piece
of chalk a likely-
looking soft spot
midway, between his
hump and where I
thought his medulla
oblongata would be
if he had one, I
pressed the rifle-butt
hard against m y
stomach to mini-
mise the effect of the
“kick,*’ took careful aim and fired. Mus-
tapha gave a startled squeal and lashed
out savagely.
Then a strange thing happened. My
shot was immediately followed by a
scream, and from out of the top of one
of the palm-trees bordering the oasis a
brown-faced figure, encased in what
looked like a small tent and with a towel
arrangement around its head, pitched
headlong to the sand. An Arab!
Now in a crisis my brain is ice-cold
and works like lightning. Even before
his body had hit the sand the whole situa-
tion flashed before me, crystal-clear. By
a (for Mustapha) lucky shot I had
brought down an Arab spy. But events
had not yet finished. As I was strolling
over to my victim, rubbing my hands
in satisfaction, there came rolling across
the desert the terrible cry of “Ul-ul-ul-
ullah-Akbar!” as, over the distant rise,
as if in answer to a prearranged signal,
a hundred Arab camel riders, one hand
clinging to the hump of the camel as the
other brandished a huge double-edged
sword, bore down upon me.
S.W.K.


AS ONE GOAT TO ANOTHER!


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“S.”: Even when silly flappers and
sillier youths in white shirts with red
ties were spouting their Russian cliches
against the police in Sydney Domain
there was one exquisitely Australian
touch. The police had arrested a Com-
munist for selling relief stamps for Spain
(apparently that’s a much greater crime
than talking revolution), and the crowd
surged up to the watch-house. Burly
policemen stood on guard,' young Reds
were muttering, and their leaders were
ostentatiously quieting them. In another
country it might have been a dangerous
situation ; but there was only one voice
raised really to the pitch of excitement,
and it was crying “Peanuts and cigarettes,
peanuts and cigarettes!”
* ~
“Dhas”: Let me trot out my little
friend “mishap” for inspection. Every
day my paper tells me that a horse has
met with it, a motorist has suffered it,
an ambulance or a policeman has rushed
to the scene of it. In ordinary conver-
sation I have very occasionally heard it
used ironically, but I have yet to hear
any battered driver explain “I had a
mishap with a locomotive.” How the
dailies came to adopt it instead of smash,
crash or accident I can’t imagine, unless
it’s just a mishap.
* * * *
“W.E.F.”: A cobber of mine, well-
known in Sydney literary circles, left in
a tram the manuscript of a novel which
had taken him 12 months to complete.
Frantic at the loss of his masterpiece, he
worried the Tramway Lost Property
Office for weeks and spent a couple of
quid in “Lost and Found” advts. A
month or so went past, then one morning
the lost brain-child turned up in the post.
With it was a typewritten note which
read: “Herewith please find MS. of
novel left by you in Glebe tram some
weeks ago. Have read it and think it is
lousy. Your hero is a prig and the
heroine is an insufferable snob. The
villain is a poorly-drawn stock type, and
the plot is as old as the hills. The scenic
stuff might have been lifted from a guide
book. However, since its pomposity and
crudities provided me with many laughs,
1 am waiving the reward you offered and
will also stand the cost of returning it
to you.”
* * * *
“Mcßerl”: Some additions to Will
Shakspeare’s motoring experiences. He
uses one of those super-super petrols and
finds it good. “A rarer spirit never did
steer humanity” (“Anthony and Cleo-
patra”); but, alas! the engine gets oiled
up, resulting in the “rankest compound
of villainous smell that ever offended
nostril” (“Merry Wives of Windsor”).
Referring to the automatic traffic con-
trol, he remarks: “Look with what cour-
teous action it waves you on” (“Ham-
let”). On a frosty morning the Bard
had trouble in starting, explaining that
otherwise somewhat cryptic reference
“Which much enforced, a hasty spark,
and straight is cold again” (“Julius
Caesar”). But it isn’t fair to blame Wil-
liam for what he started when he penned
the lines “Knock, knock! Who’s there?”
He was, of course, merely recording his
experience with third-class petrol.
* * * *
“Phyllis Tyne”: News that a veritable
Cdzanne has been imported to Australia,
while it leaves me cold, will doubtless
buck up the aesthetes who rave over that
gentleman’s marvellous sense of rhythm.
To the poor dubs who don’t know what’s
what in Art, the work of Cdzanne,
Matisse and Gauguin looks as if it had
been done by Effie, aged seven, after two
lessons. Some people can never get the
taste for it. Notable in this respect was
a lady who for some years was right on
the pinnacle of Australian society. She
used to paint, and, as she had had a very
sound academic training and was pos-
sessed of plenty of taste and intelligence,
her pictures pleased not only herself but
her friends. But some of the brave-new-
art crowd got at her. She said after-
wards: “They taught me how to do the
French impressionist stuff. It’s very easy.
So I painted some pictures that way.
Everybody said they were marvellous—
such feeling, such expression! But I
could never look at them without a
shudder. They came in very handy for
lighting fires.”
* * * *
“Sailor Once”: Every now and’again
Australian papers have occasion to refer
to the artistic ability of some visiting
seafaring man. In my days every junior
executive officer of the R.N. received in-
struction in drawing and sketching as
“Wot did you throw overboard then ?”
"Yer teeth!”
"No, you cant come up. You’re the decoy.”
part of his future job-; this was given
not only in the Britannia but after going
to sea. Many of the youngsters, in a
day when life aboard was monotonous
and pleasures ashore few, gave much time
to the art and became more than averagely
proficient. Their private logs, which
were kept compulsorily and were sub-
ject to periodical inspection, were em-
bellished with many pleasing instances of
their skill—often in water-colors. The
late Chevalier de Martino, Marine
Painter to the King, was aboard the
Ophir during the royal cruise of 1901,
and his work enriches the jealously-
guarded private logs of many an old
retired seadog to-day.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: A party of Russian
scientists has been investigating the
reasons for a re-
markable proportion
of centenarians in
the Georgian . pro-
vince of Abkhazia,
high up on the Black
Sea slopes of the
Caucasus Moun-
tains. The oldest of
them is a kid of 155,
who served ajgainst
Napoleon in 1812,
and plenty of the
lads and lasses of the
village have turned
the 120 mark. These
figures are dinkum,
according to the
scientists. Whatever
the reasons under-
lying their longevity,
temperance is not
among them. The
record - holder was
reported by his
family to have been
a heavy drinker for
130 years, and cheer-
fully admitted it. He
smoked constantly,
ate all the meat he
could get, and hadn’t
had a bath for over
70 years. He took a
walk only when
there was no other
way of getting where
he wanted to go. The
only standard feature among the cen-
tenarians, except a strong affection for
vodka, was that they were all short, com-
pared with the usual Abkhazian stature.
* * * *
“Oike Oike”: I have never seen Prin-
cess Marina, Duchess of Kent, but I trust
for the sake of Australia’s main national
industry that there is something in hered-
ity and that she takes after her uncle.
King George of Greece used to help
me lend dignity to that ancient London
haunt of the lesser county families
Brown’s Hotel, a hostelry which looked
like a Sydney Rocks terrace outside and
a mid-Victorian museum within. His
Majesty (then in exile) used to occupy
a corner table. At breakfast you could
see him eating a cutlet. At lunch he
would wade into a solid meal of mutton
chop and new potatoes. At dinner, like
as not, he would be seen going through
a cut off the leg like Greek fire through
a gum-tree. If he took his proclivity for
mutton back to the Mediterranean with
him. Athens should be a good place for
Dr. Earle Page to think of next time he
wants to go somewhere to arrange a trade
treaty.
* >l= * *
“Avon”: Back in the early days of
the century, when local-option polls were
handing substantial provincial towns such
as Invercargill and Ashburton over to
the sly-grogger and the horrors of
amateur-distilled spirits, it was decided
that the M.L. Parliament should have
a measure of self-determination in this
matter also, and ever since, at the first
assembling of Parliament after an elec-
tion, the Houses solemnly vote as *o
whether Bellamy’s shall continue to vend
wines and malted and spirituous liquors.
Bellamy’s hasn’t yet run dry and never
is likely to, though there have been times
when a substantial majority of both
Houses has been either prohibitionist as
a matter of political policy or teetotal
as a matter of personal preference. The
big reason for a “continuance” vote is
imparted to every new member. Bel-
lamy’s, open during the whole period
either House is sitting—and on occasion
they sit right round the clock earns
liquor profits that make those of the
most popular Wellington pubs look
trifling, and the heavy credit on this side
of the business enables members to enjoy
the best five-course dinner in Welling-
ton at a price for which even a third-
class restaurant couldn’t put on a pass-
able feed.
SANTA CLAUS UP TO DATE.
Here's a word of counsel one may present
To any and every Government
lhat seeks at getting its term renewed
By a claim on the people’s gratitude,
A better credential to display
Than all things else upon polling-day.
The veriest cynic well might pause
Ere going gunning for Santa Claus,
And who wants to see on a poulterer’s pegs
The goose that lays him the golden eggs?
Whatever boodle’s at your command,
Splash it around with a liberal hand,
Especially in the neighborhood
Where you rightly hold it will do most good.
Where the votes are thickest ’twill ever earn
Ihe fattest div. and the best return.
With the bird that laid ’em strung up by the
legs
It would mean good-bye to the golden eggs,
And who is there, for whatever cause,
Would put a bullet in Santa Claus?
Bread cast on waters, the Scripture says,
Comes back to one after many days;
And maybe it’s truer of Government bread
With lots of butter upon it spread,
While an extra layer of jam atop
Is a safe specific for “prop and cop,”
And a surer vote-bait than righteous laws.
For nobody shoots at Santa Claus
Or, even at Michaelmas time, rencgs
On a goose that lays him the golden eggs.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“D.E.”: Two columns I never miss
reading are “Local Government,” in
“S. M. Herald,” and “Bushworkers*
Budget,” in the “Worker.” The first is
written with astonishing brightness by a
recognised authority on a subject of in-
creasing importance ; the other, the work
of many hands—not as skilful with the
pen as they are or used to be with the
blades —throws a flood of light on the
origins of the A.W.U. and the good Aus-
tralianism and mateship that sustain it.
The passing of old shearers who were
contemporaries of Macdonell and
Spence, the city visits of others who
boiled the billy with Lawson, the
struggles of organisers and shed reps,
with Communists—now beaten out of
the field—the amounts of the collections
(invariably generous) taken up for
widows of comrades whose lingering ill-
nesses exhausted their savings—these and
other chronicles of the fine old union
are set down in rugged prose, and, city
rat that 1 am, I find them fascinating.
Now and then a lighter note is struck,
though not always of design. For
example:
P. Baker, shed rep., Walgett, writes:
“I would like to report to you that when
we were going to start shearing at
Youendah the men would not start until
every man had union tickets, so I called
the men together and held a meeting.
There were tour men without tickets, so
the rest of the men refused to start until
those men decided to take tickets. After
a few remarks were passed they decided to
take tickets, so that left everyone a union
man. Work then went on without any
more trouble.”
I would like to report that I would have
paid the price of a ticket for the privi-
lege of hearing those “few remarks.”
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: A French Judge who has
been analysing divorce cases in La Patrie
has come to the statistical conclusion
that the very worst kinds of husbands
are good dancers. So, too, are the most
flagrant co-res. Conversely, clumsy and
ineffective dancers are very rarely found
amongst respondent husbands or co-res.
but occur frequently amongst husbands
with sound cases against their erring
partners. If the principle should ever
come to be accepted in British law—and
a lot of equally queer ones are already
there—divorce courts will become popu-
lar amusement resorts, and Judges and
counsel themselves will need to acquire
at least expert theoretical knowledge of
nigger dancing. All modern dancing,
ballroom variety, is nigger.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: “A.M.A.’s” (B.
19/10/’3B) forthright flower-lady recalls
a genial soul who used to frequent the
river end of Flinders-street, Melbourne,
in the vicinity of “Tony’s,” a pub famed
among seafarers of the day. His initial
approach was the usual “Spare a deener,
mister, for a sylor hon the beach.” If
repulsed, the next move was: “Fetcher
yer don’t know wot I want it for, mister.”
When the victim would sarcastically sug-
gest a starving wife and kids or the first
meal for a week, he would suddenly un-
leash an unexpectedly delightful grin and
reply: “Blessy’rart, mister, you har a
hinnocent! Beer’s wot I want it for—
gotter thirst on me like a blanky wooden
god struck by lightnin’. Thort a gennle-
man hof your hexperience would ’ave
hunderstood.” I never saw it fail; in
fact, I’ve won a few bets on it from new-
chums who reckoned they were touch-
proof in the beastly cawlinies. For all
the Cockney accent, he’d never been out
of Melbourne.
* * * a
West Aussie”: Jack Lang was not
the first Prominent Person to have his
plans for opening a bridge anticipated.
Sixty-six years before the Sydney episode
Governor Hampton was about to declare
Perth Causeway (the second structure)
open for traffic when a wildly careering
“ Darling, don't forget to drop me a line when you get there.”
horse, its rider quite unable to control
it, dashed into thE assembled bigwigs and
thence across , he brid w.A.'s early-
d Governor wilh ore aplomb tha y n
the Nsw . ex-Premier was able to
muster when he mct his De Groot im .
mediately anno unced: “I declare this
br j d g e opened by J. S. Maley.” Maley
was the rider of the horse _ and hjs name
was destined to loom large in future
W A anna , s of , and settlement, as well
as in its legislative records,
* * * *
“Abenqui”: He was the last of a long
fine of patients, and by then I was very
weary. Moreover, he was a returned
soldier, and should have known better,
Complaint: something in his throat. His
replies to my questions not being very
helpful, I proceeded to my examination,
anc j a f ter fj ve painstaking minutes I had
to con f e ss that I could find nothing,
‘ But there iSj man _ t here is,” he
scr eamed, dancing in front of me. “Look
at it ” j pee ped in once more. He was
po i n ti n g to his tonsils, seen by him, pre-
sumably, for the first time,
* * * *
“Archie”: They were simple, golden-
hearted Aussies of the R.A.A. engrossed
in a quiet game of two-up. Their C.O.
looked darkly on the evil pastime, and
did his best to discourage it. But on
this occasion the troops felt quite safe,
for they had a good field of view, and
unless the Old Man arrived in a vast
hurry there was no chance of being
caught. It was unlikely he would hurry
his ponderous weight, for two chalk
marks on the wall were memorials
to the only occasions on which he had
been known to double in several years,
But presently there came a sound like a
herd of elephants approaching, and the
almost breathless C.O. burst into sight.
“Now up on your blanky wall,”
-** * *
“Nakhoda”: The silliest atrocity story
to date is the yarn that the Chinese have
trained 5000 orang-outangs to throw hand
grenades, operate machine-guns and pick
out and assault company commanders.
The orang-outang is the mildest-mannered
beast that ever inhabited a tropical
jungle. It seeks the seclusion of the tree-
tops and naturally resents intrusion. It
will fight desperately when cornered;
but, for all its enormous strength, when
on the ground it is as helpless as an
infant. Its sinister reputation is derived
from the Pan-legend of Ancient Greece
(or from something much earlier). The
legend has had an extensive history. The
French believed that the men of Kent
had tails and were particularly savage ;
and the English paid the French a simi-
lar compliment. When this little mis-
understanding was cleared up the locale
ot the half-man, half-beast migrated to
Northern Africa. It gradually shifted its
address until it found a final home in
Sumatra and Borneo. Here the Euro-
pean voyagers were regaled by the
natives with stories of man-apes which
carried off their daughters. A Parisian
sculptor was so enamored of the subject
that he depicted a gorilla in the act of
carrying off a beautiful lady, which work
eventually found its way to the National
Gallery in Melbourne, where it so shocked
public taste that for some time it could
only be seen behind a curtain. It is now
on public view and excites less animated
comment than the stuffed body of Phar
Lap.
* * * *
“C.D.”: The mistake made by a
weekly journal in referring to fudge Cur-
lewis as “Mr. Justice Curlewis” recalls
a similar slip made by an unsuccessful
litigant returning from the District Court
in conversation with his solicitor: “Not
‘Mr. Justice’ Curlewis but ‘Judge’ Cur-
lewis,” explained the lawyer—“there’s no
‘Justice’ in the District Court.” “You’re
telling me,” was the gloomy reply.
**■*,.
“Cauboy”: I am not surprised to hear
that Oscar Asche, after making £120,000
out of “Chu Chin Chow” alone, left an
estate of only £2O. He lost £45,000 in
breeding and training greyhounds, and
probably ate the rest. A man of his
bulk requires a great deal of nourish-
ment ; but, in addition, Oscar was an
epicure for whom nothing was a
trouble in the interests of his gastronomi-
cal ideal. During one of his Melbourne
seasons he received an invitation to lunch
and a game at the exclusive Royal
Tennis Club in Spring-street. Royal
tennis is even more strenuous than the
ordinary variety, and it was Asche’s habit
to prepare for physical exercise, whether
on the boards or off, by stoking himself
with fuel. Fearing that the club might have
underestimated his carrying capacity, he
ensured success by sending along, not
only his own comestibles, but his own
French chef and his famous portable
cooker as well. After eating - a hearty
meal, the stout histrion played an amaz-
ingly nimble game, just as he played an
amazingly nimble Othello on the groan-
ing stage at the Theatre Royal.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Orchestra-conductor Mal-
colm Sargent tells a story against him-
self to parallel that of the American
girl who was “so dumb that she thought
Rex Beach was a summer resort.” On
Sargent’s first visit to Adelaide he was
promised a drive to “go out and see Clem
Hill,” and on the way fancied he was
doing justice to the occasion by praising
the mountain scenery. “Then,” he says,
“I woke up.”
* * * *
“Col. Bungstarter”: A way they have
in the Navy, which is becoming a uni-
versal lower-deck fashion, is to wash
their pretty faces well with soap and
water before shaving. It is not a popular
way at all with the canteens, because
safety-razor blades are an important item
in sales, and the pre-shave wash so
softens the bristles as to cause blades to
last twice as long. Sarcastic remarks
about beauty treatments have had no
effect. If the merry matlows hear of a
recent bit of American research work
which advocates a three-minute rubbing
in of lather after the preliminary wash,
a further drop in canteen returns is as-
sured, for it quadruples average blade life
and gives the easiest possible shave as
well.
BALLADE OF CAP AND BELLS.
Let braver spirits build the lofty rhyme
And weave those swift iambics that endow
Him from whose lips they spring with fame
sublime
And set a wreath of laurel on his brow,
I know I couldn’t do it anyhow.
No such facility within me dwells;
My limitations frankly I avow;
I only wear the jester’s cap and bells.
I have no Pegasus whereon to climb
And grab a chaplet from Apollo’s bough.
My Dobbin, even in his lusty prime,
Was merely of the breed that draws the
plough,
And incontestably he’s ageing now,
On him ’tis distance and not pace that tells.
He’s won no trophies for me, poor old cow,
Save and except the jester’s cap and bells.
My chance of echoing down the grooves of time
Is Buckley’s—that 1 cheerfully allow—
For who, when peals from a carillon chime,
Would ever hear a penny trumpet’s row?
Beside the bard who stands upon the prow
And into faery seas his barque propels
We’re negligible beings, I and thou,
Who only wear the jester’s cap and bells.
We’ve none to serve us honeydew for chow;
No Hippocrene with all its magic spells
Will ever gurgle down the necks, 1 trow,
Of us who wear the jester’s cap and bells.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


"This fencing might he all right for kangaroos."
“Mac Hoots”: Noted with joy that for
Maoriland’s centennial an amusement
park and a cabaret “will provide Welling-
ton with a night life to satisfy the most
critical of visitors.” As one who has
revelled in various pretty places in Paris
until the dawn crowed on the rooftops,
and as one who sat a whole dreary week
in a Wellington police court reporting
the fate of a cabaret that sold a few
bottles of home-brewed beer, I heartily
agree that while there is six o’clock clos-
ing Wellington will provide a night life
that will satisfy the most critical of
wowsers.
* * * *
“Tuart”: As one old enough to re-
member when the first “On Our Selec-
tion” yarns appeared in. The Bulletin,
and the delight with which Dad, Dave,
Mother and Sarah were received
throughout Australia, it annoys me to
see the grand old Australian characters
and setting commercialised and cheap-
ened by inferior hands. The worst of it
is that this brassy exploitation of a dead
Australian writer’s creations is being used
to spread the ugly American chewing-
gum habit, which Dad, Dave, Sarah and
Mother and “Steele Rudd” himself, as
I knew him, would have despised. And
a generation brought up on moving
pictures is so ignorant of Australian
literature and its origins that I daresay
most of the young ones implicitly believe
that Dad and Dave were invented by
Mr. George Edwards to the order of
Wrigleys. But can’t something be done
about it? Even though Dickens copy-
rights have run out, I question whether
Britain would stand 8.8. C. doing
“Pickwick and Sam” or “Two Wellers”
broadcasts as far below the original as
the current Dad-and-Dave stuff is below
the “On Our Selection” series. But it
is improbable that 8.8. C. would even
consider such a desecration of loved
characters ; and they have no commercial
radio in Britain, thank God!
* * * *
“Phono”: Every now and then the
answer to correspondents section of some
serious journal warns a poetical contri-
butor that “morn” doesn’t rhyme with
“dawn.” It isn’t done, I know, and has
been anathema for 300 years or more ;
but why ? Webster, dealing with the pro-
nunciation of “dawn,” gives it an “a” with
two dots under it, which indicates, accord-
ing to the explanation of such signs, a
vowel sound “as in ‘fork.’ ” “Morn”
has a caret over the “o,” which the ex-
planation says indicates a vowel sound
as in “stork.” A Caledonian may pos-
sibly enunciate “morrrn,” but there’s no
English authority for r-rolling, and I
absolutely defy anyone to pronounce
the w in dawn or avoid the effect of an
r in it. The long-standing ban seems on
a par with the advice invariably given
to young versifiers —“read Pope.” There
never was a more slipshod rhymer. Food-
blood, home-come, sky-company, abodes-
gods, mourns-burns, boast-frost, store-
poor, none-own, obey-tea, forms-worms,
words-lords, and ear-Gulliver are some of
his atrocities, culled from a selection of
his choicest lines in Bartlett’s Quotations.
* * * *
“H.W.”: The other night an argument
arose as to who was the Most Important
Man in the community. The medico said
he was, > somebody else said the baker
was, and someone else suggested the pub-
keeper. The argument waxed fast and
furious until some bright spark suggested
settling it by counting the numbers of
each in the pink pages of the Sydney
telephone directory. We did so, and the
results gave most of us a shock. We
found that the agent was most important
(there are 1800 of him), with the medico
a bad second with 1150. The grocer was
next (1100), closely followed by the
garageman (1000), and the butcher (950).
Then came the builder and contractor
(900), the hairdresser (850), the engineer
and the pubkeeper (800), the solicitor
and the carrier (700), the chemist and the
dentist (650), the fruiterer and the
storekeeper (600). The baker could man-
age only an insignificant 250, and his sup-
porter was much mortified by the trium-
phant crowings of the pubkeeper’s
advocate. It took a long time to recon-
cile the doctor td playing second fiddle
to the agent.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Arab rioters in
Palestine stopped a funeral and
burned the coffin by the roadside. This
doesn’t come so hard on the deceased
as it sounds. Your Moslem is carried
to his grave in an open-topped box and
taken out and buried without it. This
is to allow the Angel of the Judgment
quick acress to the dead—for on The Day
he must personally visit and put the acid
on each man. For this purpose also
Moslem graves are dug with a neat little
seat along one side, and on this the
Angel sits while he is conducting the
examination. The coffin is usually a
very plain wooden affair, so the fire
would not cost the mortician much.
* * * *
“Sailor Once”: I wonder if royal
Kent will bring a remembrancer with
him to Australia. When York (later
George V.) was to inspect Garden Island
in* 1901, the most striking figure in the
island landscape just before the Duke’s
arrival was Warrant-Officer Brown,
standing in solitary state alongside the
path. I found he was stationed there
by order so that the Duke’s staff could
pick him out. He had been a former
shipmate of H.R.H., and still treasured
his old parchment certificate signed
“George, Captain.” Saw the whole per-
formance later—the nudge, royalty’s
moment of hesitation, then a look of
understanding, and the final advance with
outstretched hand and beaming counten-
ance. Sydney papers went into ecstasies
over this fine example of the “royal
memory.”
“M o r ehead”:
Add journalists to
the list of people
who are continu-
ally pestered by
friends for free ad-
vice. The average
Sawbones and Bill
o’ Costs have per-
fected a technique
for handling such
nuisances, a tech-
nique which I ad-
mire but have
never had the
strength of mind to
put into practice. It
consists of a semi-
bored reception of
the recital of
symptoms and a
grudging few
words of advice.
My powers of
resistance being
around about zero,
I find my desk per-
manently littered
with novels, plays,
short stories, verse
and articles which
have been dumped
on me by friends.
They all want me
to read, criticise
and suggest likely
markets. A poem
takes only a few
minutes, articles
and short stories
anything from 10 to
30 minutes. It is the
plays and novels
that are the snag.
Reading them
alone may occupy
anything from
three or four hours
to eight hours. A professional critic
would charge anything from 30s. to
£3 3s. for the job of reading and
criticising which 1 am expected to
perform in the name of friendship.
Gratitude! 1 was once shouted a lOd.
feed at a snack-bar by the author of a
play as long as “Strange Interlude,” while
the authoress of a narrative poem as
long as “Enoch Arden” gushingly pre-
sented me with a second-hand cigarette-
lighter that wouldn’t work. Another
discovery I have made is that these
authors don’t want criticism; all they
want is a page or two of praise which
they can display to their friends or
brandish before some editor or publisher.
* * * *
“Artful D.”: The s.p. bookie needs to
be a wily person in other respects than
concealing, his activities if he takes bets
by post, even on a limit-week-settlement
basis. Some clients will address an en-
velope to themselves in pencil, post it
after midnight to get the date of post-
mark correct for the race day, steam it
.open, insert the winner’s name imme-
diately it comes over ’phone or wireless,
and drop it in the bookie’s box a few
minutes late. If he accepts only his own
addressed envelopes, they run the same
trick by enclosing one in a larger envelope
with a section cut out to receive the post-
mark. If he has no letter-box, and takes
only officially-delivered ones, it needs a
helper. One drops the doctored epistle
close behind the postman as he nears the
bookie’s place. The other, as he walks
towards the postman, sings out: “Hey,
Dig., you’ve dropped a letter,” and the
innocent official does the rest.
* *
“Atrax”: Man
is certainly the
most conceited and
self - sufficient
animal in exist-
ence, and in these
cockeyed days it is
some satisfaction
to realise that he
has to pay for
every step of his
advance towards
them. When his
primordial ances-
tor left the sea, he
became exposed to
risks from falls,
fire, thirst, cold,
light n i ng and
drowning. In ac-
quiring his upright
posture —the main
thing which makes
him possible —he
gained free, skilled
movement in his
fore - limbs, chest
freedom which en-
abled language to
develop, a wider
range of vision,
and a brain case of
greater cubic con-
tent. But it put a
much greater strain
on his heart and circulation, jammed his
abdominal organs together, and, by
altering his centre of gravity, forced him
to relearn the businesses of walking,
running and swimming. It lost him
security on his feet—man stumbles and
trips more than any other animal —and
also speed. So he hasn’t got so much
to be cocky about, after all.
* * * *
“El V.”: Queer how civilised ameni-
ties slide upon us without our noticing
them. Only a few years ago the cult of
the “introduction” club was confined to
Uncle Sam’s country. Now it is flour-
ishing in Sydney.
Dainty and extremely pretty young lady
seeks sincere gent.—Joy Club.
A grazier’s son, young, smart, seeks smart
young lady accompany tours, outings.—Joy
Club.
There are also a Happiness Club, an Arm-
chair Club, a Lovejoy Library (with Cozi
Corner attached), and for those who are
not so gregarious there is the “Tele-
graph.”
Boy, 17, like girl friend, North Shore,
not tall.
Middle-aged, refined, educated, musical,
non-drinker, lonely gentleman, preparing
for world tour, seeks attractive, honorable,
affectionate musical lady of means, view
genuine companionship and outings.
Bachelor, 40, desires meet intelligent, con-
genial girl, not under 21.
Till now I never realised how many at-
tractive species of lady and gent, there
were going begging. The only type that
seems to be missing is the Uncle from Fiji.
* * * *
“T.S.”: After reading reports of the
proceedings of Russia’s new Parliament,
I blush with shame every time I think of
Canberra. No legislative quarrels in
Russia. Legislation is greeted “with
loud applause passing into an ovation.
Exclamations in the languages of the
peoples of the U.S.vS.R.”—there are a
few dozens among the 1160 Ms. P.—are
heard “in all corners of the room.” A
new judicial system, a citizenship law, a
tax on horses, the Budget and a bill to
determine the procedure in making inter-
national treaties all went through last
session without anybody letting out a yip
of protest against a single clause. But
what 1 like is the sheer democracy of
the place. None of your “Heil Hitler-
ing” in Moscow. One Minister, intro
ducing the Citizenship Bill, merely
finished up: “Long live the great citizens
of the invincible Soviet Union. Glory
to the Great Genius, leader, father, friend
and teacher, our great Stalin.” (Loud
and prolonged applause.)
* * * *
“Hangar”: I know it isn’t The Bul-
letin’s habit to print bukshee advertise-
ments, but 1 think that in its enthusiasm
for suitable white immigrants it might
make an exception for this one from the
English “Aeroplane”:
Aerodrome Managers! Young man, 23,
single, ex-sailor (twice round world), Associ-
ated Press newshound and garage pro-
prietor, having lost capital and job in
latter, last two pounds spent on this
advert., seeks any form of employment at
aerodrome in any part of the world offering
living wage, with opportunity of rising to
administrative side of business of air trans-
port and/or private flying. One year train-
ing College of Aeronautical Engineering.
Five hours’ flying experience. Public
school. School certificate. Well spoken.
Tall. Good organiser. Speaks French.
Experienced in publicity. Author of pub-
lished short stories. Sober and obedient.
Excellent references. Would sweep hangars,
act as night watchman or fly Atlantic by
mistake, but opportunity essential. Genu-
ine desire to settle down. Offers, sugges-
tions and even advice welcome.
If no aerodrome manager wants him, he
sounds as if he might make a good State
Premier.
“We should see a big yellow country any day now”


SOLEMN LEAGUE AND COVENANT FOR SELF-PRESERVATION.
“Not only the native bear is threatened with extinction."


ABORIGINALITIES
“Take 'em away, chef! I suggest a three-decker sandwich.”
“Wang”: Dad had been elected presi-
dent of the shire council, and much
to the surprise—and disappointment—
of his colleagues announced that he in-
tended to keep a “dry” cupboard during
his term of office. He left the meeting
feeling full of righteousness, satisfied that
he had shown them he could take a
stand when he wanted to. He’d surprise
his family, too, when they heard of it.
It was pitch-black when he arrived home,
and after stabling his horse he made his
way to the house. Everybody was in bed,
and all the lights were out. Half-way
across the yard he fell over a couple of
milk cans that had been left standing
there. In the stilly night the reverbera-
tion of the clanking cans was deafening.
Picking himself up he groped his way to
the back verandah, where he measured
his length over old Rover coiled up there
on a bag. Cursing the dog, he rose and
opened the kitchen door. The next in-
stant there came a crash that shook the
house, and Tibby the cat streaked for
safety from under Dad, who had tripped
over her. As Dad picked himself up for
the third time in as many minutes he
heard Dave remark to young Joe in their
room off the kitchen, “Lumme, Joe, th’
president’s cupboard’s ‘wet’ this year,
all right!”
* * * *
“Swaggie”: After a couple of days
on the job the new hand heard the
missus mention that she intended making
a new mattress, using the corn husks that
had been saved in the shed, and he
offered to do the job for her. As Choom
had proved himself handy at various odd
jobs the boss was satisfied, as the missus
would be able to go into town with him.
Having seen them off the premises
Choom started on his job, and when he
finished it got it inside somehow by him-
self, made the bed and left the room
tidy. Late at night Cocky and Mrs. Cocky
arrived home and turned in. Soon there
was a lot of thumping, followed by a
shout of laughter, and then the mattress
came flying out. Yes, Choom had filled
it with corncobs!
* * * *
“Puffinus”: Where the pelican builds
its nest is popularly supposed to be a
deuce of a long way inland, but a swampy
islet in a S.Q. estuary has been the
choice of several score of them this year.
It is a casual sort of nest, often only a
shallow saucer scraped out of the sandy
soil with the big beak. Sometimes a few
tufts of grass or some sticks are put in
as a pretence at lining, but there seem
to be no rules. With 50 nests a few
feet apart, the locality soon smells to
high heaven. Mrs. P. sits by night and
half the day, fishing for the Other half
until the ugly youngsters, usually two,
emerge from the big dirty eggs. They
show no sign of beak or pouch at first,
but have amazing appetites which mother
works hard to satisfy with pouch-loads
of fish. They grow rapidly, the bills show,
and they haul themselves down to the
water with them. Once afloat they swim
powerfully and fish for a living, soon
assume adult shape and size, and in a
month or two are off out west again
with their parents.
* * * *
“Drone”: There’s nothing like an old-
man drought for spreading English bees
in the bush. When seasons are good
they’ll make a hive within touch of water
and reckon the game’s all in order. When
that water gets low and distasteful the
scout bees go looking for a promised
land—one flowing with whips of water,
and they’ll provide the honey. And in
every instance they’ll be making out from
the river to some boredrain, well, dam
or other permanent man-made conserva-
tion of moisture.
* * * *
“Hopalong”: The queerest battery I
ever saw was one on the Cania (Q.) field.
Constructed of saplings and scrap
machinery, it was run by a two-cylinder
motor-bike. The bike was attached to a
crossbeam and ran on a circular track
around the battery. The owner put the
ore in the feed box, retired to the out-
side of the ring and started up the bike.
Of course, he couldn’t get near the
battery until the bike ran out of petrol
and stopped. *
* * * *
“Naturala”: Tramping a south-west
W.A. beach after a big blow I came
across numbers of neat round holes, each
about two inches in diameter, sunk in
the recently-wave-washed sand. Keeping
still I waited, and presently, from the
nearest dozen, pairs of curious eyes
popped up. The slightest move on my
part and the eyes disappeared. Prod-
ding into a hole with a thin stick I met
defiance from a warrior who, full of
fight, came up to see what was the
trouble. A crab, red as though just out
of the pot, and no bigger than would
sit on the palm of a man’s hand. One
claw was oversize, the other just the
opposite—the large one for fighting
and capturing food, the small for con-
veying food to the mouth. Eyes—like a
pair of inch-long wooden matches—were
hinged at the base and, when not serv-
ing as a periscope, lay back neatly in
grooves along the front of the skull.
But more remarkable was the faculty
of dual sight. Framed lightly with shell,
each eye had a double iris, one on each
side, so that concealed in its entrench-
ment, and.with its periscope erect, the
crab could see in every direction.
Modern warfare entrenchments and
periscopes. Queer how Nature fore-
stalled some of man’s most recent in-
ventions.
* * * *
“First Blue”: “Bullickies these days
ain’t ’alf as good as they wus in my time,”
declared Blanketty Ben, jerking his thumb
at a profane driver urging his team up a
big hill. “A joker in them days ’ad to
know ’is flamin’ team so well he could
reckernise them in the dark. Give me a
coupla bullicks fer a day an’ I’d know
’em anywhere. Many’s the time I bin
going along a road when I spots a bit
of hair caught in a barbed-wire fence
alongside the road, and after looking at
it fer a few jiffies I could tell yer the
very name of the bullick what’s been
scratchin’ himself there. Best time of
the lot, though, was once when I wus
down in the city on holidays. There I
am sittin’ in one of them caffy joints
when the sheilah comes in with me help-
in’ of rump steak. I takes one squint at
it and gets a funny sick sorta feelin’ in
me stummick. Yairs, fair dinkum, I noo
right away it’s part of old Baldy, a
whoppin’ big bullick I’d worked years
before up Dopeygarma way!”
* * * *
“E.S.”: Enter the blackfaced cuckoo-
shrike and the friar bird as the most
nicknamed feathered pair in the bush.
Among the aliases of the first are smoker,
lapwing, blue pigeon, blue jay, cherry-
hawk and big summer bird, plus classi-
cal title Coracina melanops. Blue jay is
the most popular name. The friar bird,
famed as the clown of birdland, is known
as leatherhead, monk, four o’clock,
tobacco box, pimlico, bobala, knobby
nose, boko and poor soldier. Of these
leatherhead is the most widely used.
This tricky rogue of the forests, though
the ugliest of the big family of honey-
eaters, is a favorite in many parts of the
country on account of his comical
appearance, his monkey-like antics
among the gum blossoms and his lively
clowning and sportiveness.
* * * *
“Comber”: “The wind bloweth where
it listeth,” but the ocean current in its
vagaries is almost as erratic. Out from a
W.A. fishing port we often drifted up and
down the Three Mile Reef, lifting snapper,
jewfish and a dozen smaller species in
satisfactory numbers. Seeking the spot
a year ago, after a succession of heavy
blows, we found the reef had disap-
peared. Approaching from seawards,
we travelled over a half-mile slope of
sand, up which the huge rollers slowly
gathered and then bumped heavily over
into the deep. A few weeks ago we
found the reef uncovered again. The
millions of tons of sand had gone some-
where else. A few grains at a time sand
travels, ceaselessly washed by each suc-
ceeding wave. Currents thus become di-
verted ; fresh gaps may be gouged out of
previously stable beaches ; an unexpected
entrance cut through the sand bar of a
locked river mouth ; the end of an island
swept away. Disappearance of fish, too,
is often due to sand. With a slow but
ceaseless drift thousands of acres of
rocky bottom may become buried, kill-
ing off the weed and the multitudes of
small crustaceans which served the fish
as food. A season or two, the sand
drifts on, weed grows again, and fish
return.
“Blast y'! Find somethin else t' rub against!"
BLACKFOOT AND BALL.
They were the kings,
The kings of the road,
Mighty as ships
As they hauled the load;
Then a new power rose—
A day and a day,
And the teams were gone,
The bullocks away.
But out on the rim,
At the uttermost bound,
Cropping the grass
With a rich, warm sound,
In the fields of heaven,
Gold-tipped of horn,
Feed Black foot and Ball
In a golden morn.
N.S.W.
And the Lord Himself
Comes walking there
Where the brave heads lift
In a friendly stare;
“Get over!” He says,
And, sober and slow,
Just as on earth
They turn and go.'
He says, “Pincher —stand up!”
And “Ball—get under!”
And “Whoa there, Blazer!”
And “Back there, Thunder!”
And then, as He turns
To His great gold throne,
He hears the bullocks —
The bells’ far tone.
MARY GILMORE.


“ Don't lose your head, miss—the rubber'll give Way in a minute."
“R.X.8.”: “Strike me pink, Bill,” said
Dave, “this fire is stone-cold, and by the
look of the place you haven’t had a feed
here for two days. What’s up?” “Jessie
has cleared out and left me, Dave.”
“Jessie? Strike me purple! How long
ago?” “Two days. She went off with
that bloke what’s been trying to sell a
tractor to the Molloys. He’s been hang-
ing around here with his eyes on Jessie,
blast him. I shouldn’t have left her here
alone, but it was her job to look after
the hut, and nothing for her to do over
on the hill with me splitting rails all day.
I never liked the look of that tractor
bloke. Jessie’s cleared out to Sydney
with him, all right. P’raps y’ can’t blame
her ; she came from Sydney, y ju know.
I brought her back when T went down
for the show, and I seen by the look in
her eyes when the train left all the lights
and houses she wouldn’t stick it out here
in the bush with me. She 11 be back,
all right. And when she comes back you
ought tQ cut a good f at waddy and give
h ° hiHina ” cniH Havo “Nn T
tter a 8°?~ ,llclln g> sa, “ Lrnve. INO, I
couldn t lift a hand to her, Dave. And
sbe won’t come back. It’s that tractor
bloke I blame. But, stiffen the crows!
it fair knocks a mans faith in dogs
rotten, don’t it? Jessie’s the third what’s
cleared out on me this year.”
* * * *
“Beau Yang"; Mulligan had good
reason to suspect that more than one
young steer of his had come to a sticky
end *" ® ro f hy j S sk - When they
met at the local pub, three sheets in the
wind, an ugly situation wasn’t long in
developing. “An’ I’d have ye know this,
ye dirty, low, thavin’ scum,” roared
Mulligan, “ ’tis a direct descindent I am
of the ould Irish kings!” “A direct de-
scindent of a king, are ye?” howled
„ , . e L• .
Brophy in the middle of his war-dance.
“Thin, b’hell, we’re goin’ t’ have a
coronation!” And, grabbing an empty
bottle from the counter, Brophy crowned
Mulligan there and then, Australian style,
* * * *
“Tamboon Inlet”: A cow I’d like to
see j m mortalised in paint is the one
which got tangled up in our Sunday-
school picnic recently. After parading
across the food-laden tablecloths laid out
on th , e B rass b V the vi ” a 8 e matrons Bessie
wandered on to the near-by cricket
ground and upset the nine-gallon keg
wb j cb the boys had smuggled out to put
a httle liveliness into the proceedings.
Driven from there she wandered into the
ladies’ pavilion and, returning therefrom
? P“ ir ° f . £rilly - I ° okin « , ol jjf ,s
draped over one horn, deposited them
in the vicar’s car. The trouble that
ca used almost made up for the thirstiness
c r, „ ,
°1 our afternoons sport.
* * .* , *
“C. Coral”: A curious denizen ot
Torres Strait waters is the Sabay fish.
About 2ft - lon 8‘ il Jf of tbe unicor f n
variety, possessing a blunt spike project-
ing a few inches from the forehead. Be-
sides its edibility it is valued for the
rich creamy oil which it yields and which
the natives use both for cooking and
medicinal purposes. A native legend thus
accounts for the presence of the Sabay
in this particular locality. In the dim
past a mythical being named Badi, who
lived on Stephens Island, possessed un-
canny powers over birds and fish. One
day he cut out a piece of wood shaped
like a fish, threw it into the water, and
immediately it developed into school
of live fish of a new species, each with
a spike in the forehead. When the school
came close inshore Badi transfixed one
with a wooden spear, cooked it in a bailer
shell and, by way of trying it out, fed
it to the ants. They showed no ill-
effects, and he next tested it in turn on
his dog and some birds. “Ah, all he no
dead!” commented Badi, and risked a
portion on himself. It was exceedingly
well-flavored; and so he arranged that
the island should have a regular supply
of Sabay round its reefs. On a sand-
bank some distance out is a big stone
standing up out of the water ; this is the
transformed Badi himself, and this spot
especially is one of the best places for
getting a haul. The people still show
visitors the stone fireplace in the bush
where Badi cooked the first of the fish.
* . * * . *
“Yarri”: Is there any animal that
hasn’t the homing instinct? Horses and
cattle will travel hundreds of miles back
to their home pastures. Even sheep,
usually regarded as stupid animals, will
steer for their old paddocks till blocked
by fences ; and I’ve known the pig to do
as well as any of them. A new hand on
a northern N.S.W. farm was sent with
a baby grunter to a neighbor’s place three
miles distant, the neighbor’s boy show-
ing the way, as there was no track,
Percy carried the pork in a corn-bag,
which gave it no chance of studying the
scenery ; and a couple of hours after he
had dumped it in the cocky s sty it was
back al its old home. Peicy goMo t.
“Hanko”: Greenfly on a peach-tree
in the garden has given me grey hairs
t u e
and the chance for some close-up nature
study. In its different stages of develop-
vm etv of bi d an d ?nsecK "gflver eyes
variety ot birds an • ■ Y >
sparrows, starlings and blackbirds climb
alter it; ladybirds put in good work
even blowflies have a lasi at it, an
scoui ge s deadliest enemy, the
lly, is there in battalions. It was an eye-
opener to me to see those darting busy-
bodies hooting it slothfully over the tree.
But despite its enemies the greenfly is
spreading to the plants, and it has sapped
Iceland poppies, nigellas, stocks and
monkey musk. Strangely enough, neme-
sias, delphiniums and Canterbury bells
seem impervious to the blight.
* * * *
“Walkagee”: I once spent six weeks
with a vegetarian swagman. Apart from
the anguish of lugging the mass of cereals,
bran mash, nut cutlets and lettuce leaves
which formed his staple diet, I had to
listen to day-long diatribes on the
hideousness and inefficiency of stomachs
befouled with meat, and to sit in suffer-
ing silence while he gorged himself noisily
on weird-looking concoctions which he
created from bracken stems and the
various grasses and leaves which he
picked up on our travels. Time after
time my sense of mateship was put to
the test when he rudely insulted farm
women and girls who offered us hand-
outs of juicy, blood-dripping steak. Pass-
ing a succulent field of clover one day,
his gluttony proved too much, and after
a half-hour or so of furious grazing he
swelled up like a blown cow. “It won’t
’appen again,” he chirruped philosophi-
cally as they carted him off hospital-
wards. “In future I’ll take a stummick
pump with me!”
* * * *
“Larrakeah”: Most useful article in
Black Brother’s rather meagre supply of
utensils is the rare bailer shell. The
bailer grows to a length of 18 inches,
with a width of 10 inches. It ploughs its
wa y along beneath the sand, seldom pro-
truding its long nose above the surface,
Binghi picks out the tracks by the
slightly-elevated ridge of sand and
f o n ows jj U p until he makes the capture.
The flesh is a pr i ze d delicacy, although
to white taste bo jj ed leather is appetising
comparison. Shell is used as a bailer
canoes, it serves Mary for a cooking
vessel and a multitude of other uses,
The kn i ves used j n t he circumcision
ceremony of most saltwater tribes must
be made exclusively from the bailer,
while powder ed flesh of the shellfish
mixed with wild honey is Binghi’s
favorite specific for abdominal pains.
* * *
„ K F are useful about
ho big dark-brown chaps with
~g ht stripes that t hunt slugs in Ihe garde n
anb o |'ien flop-flop through a house when
the door is left open at night are the
arch-enemies of The holy-
cross frog, so called from the black,
that B ’ xtend ri ght across its yellow-
een bac ; a B , destroyer of white-
*"<«■ '» ™ chap burrows
j nto tbe ear th, remaining there sometimes
f months The big green frog is death
Qn mosquito lamE , and will commonly
be f oun d roosting in water-casks, under-
ground tank s and even in the open canvas
wa ter-troughs that hang on country ver-
andahs They are often ca , ]ed “ hom ing”
f rogs jf ta ken a couple of miles awav
th wil , be back in a few hou rs.
* * *
*. .„ T *
.O- W. Waireki : Henare, who was
g°>ng to help me muster some sheep,
a f nved 1 forget te magnifymg-
glass, and had to go back for it, or my
best kuri never work well,” he explained.
“How does a magnifying-glass help your
dog?” I asked. Henare beamed. “Tat
kuri deaf as te door poster,” he replied ;
“an’ he can only take work orders by
watching lips’ movement, so 1 hold te
glass in front for him to see better.”
* * * *
“T.”: It was during a warm summer
day in the courthouse of a W.Q. town,
A grazier and a fencer had fallen out
over the term of the fencing contract,
and the latter was in the box. During
cross-examination the contractor, a hard-
bitten cove, made a statement which
brought from the P.M. the question:
“Will you swear to that?” The con-
tractor, scowled, looked at the Court,
paused, and looking straight at the P.M.
brought his clenched fist down on the
rails and yelled: “Why, I’ll even bet on
it!”
THE POLTROON.
The argument had turned on fear, what strange
effects it had. “Y’ know”—
Old “Hoop-iron” Harry downed his beer and
wiped his long and straggling mo —
“Some blokes’ll just stand petrified, without
the power to move or talk;
They’ll stare at nothin’, goggle-eyed, with mouth
wide open like a gawk.
“There’s others just the opposite; their brains
’it top gear right away;
They don’t git panicky a bit, but calm the
danger they’ll survey.
Seme others shout blue murder, yell and shriek
for help from anyone,
Or just turn tail an’ run like hell. Still others
treat the thing as fun.
“The queerest case I’ve ever struck of ’ow this
windiness works out
Was one time up near Regan’s Luck. One
day I goes an’ pokes me snout
Inside a joint (I’m after grub —I'm on the
wallaby, y’ see);
The place is thick with tea-tree scrub an’ grass
that reaches to me knee.
“I’m makin’ for the door when, there across
the little narrer track
(The sight of it gives me a scare), there glides
a big red-bellied black!
A little further on an', cripes! I sees two tigers
an’ a brown;
They’re drinkin’ milk! An’ then 1 pipes a
twelve-foot ‘carpet’ climbin’ down.
“I grabs a pretty hefty stick to wade into them
slith’rin’ Joes,
When suddinly l stops a kick that brings me
right up on me toes.
‘Drop that!’ I ’ears a voice exclaim. Well, I
don’t wait for any more;
I don’t know what’s the blasted game—l makes
a dive for that there door.
“I gets inside, an’ (strike me fat!) y’d think
that there I should be jake,
But lyin’ curled up on the mat’s another
whoppin’ carpet snake.
I turns to go, but this ’ere bloke ’oo'd booted
me comes dashin’ in;
I arsts ’im what’s the ruddy joke, an’ gives
a feeble sort o’ grin.
“’E wants to know wot right 'ad 1 to go
attackin’ all ’is pets.
I squares orf then an’ arsts ’im why ’e kept
’em. ‘Well,’ ’e says, ‘they lets
Me snooze in safety of a night; they’re better
far than all yer cats;
They’re always on the job, too right. Y’ see,
I’m scared to death of rats!’ ”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“ He'll cop it from the baron — that's the party that Was reprieved .”
“McM.”: In the far north-west of
W.A. a teamster stood in the middle of
Nowhere cursing a hopelessly broken
axle. Fifty miles ahead a shanty-keeper
was developing homicidal tendencies be-
cause the team had failed to appear with
his urgent supplies. Bung’s shelves were
nearly bone-dry, and that night he ex-
pected a big gang from the cut-out of a
near-by station. Nevertheless a good
time was had by all. A wandering chemist
had waved his magic wand over Bung’s
bottles, and every one of them ran true
to label. It was a marvellous perform-
ance with limited material, even to the
cures next morning for o.s. headaches.
It was said that the mixer of magic had
at one time been a big shot in a Euro-
pean university.
♦ sfc
“Turoar”: “Them blinkin’ wheat-
lumpers is cows uv fellers as ever there
was,” Old Bob said. “Take the time me
an’ Tarry Tom’s doin’ a bit uv cartin’.
We’d ’ad a bad year, me an’ Tarry. Our
crop ain’t worth talkin’ erbout, an’ we
’aster do somethink ter make a few bob.
So when Tim Downs gives us a contrack
ter cart a. thousin’ bags ter the station we
jumps at the chance. Ev’rythink goes
loverl y fer a whils > an ’ we ’ re slingin’
Tim s wheat inter the yards fast as they
c ’n take it. Then them blasted lumpers
s * arts muckin’ erbout. They reckins Tim’s
bagses too ’eavy, an’ they opens one up
ter see wot ’ s do j n ’ Fm b lowed jf j t a j n ’ t
more n alf-full uv sand. O course there s
a ’elluva dust-up, an’ Tim’s terr’ble sore.
’ E tak , e s ’is oath the lumperses puttin’ it
over ’im, an’ ’e calls ’em ev’rythink.
Me an’ Tarry, we ergrees with ’im, but we
a m t sayin nothink, an nex day we starts
cartin’ our own wheat in ; erbout 400
bags, all good stuff, too. But, cripes, if
■» ain't <■>«". lousy interferin' lumpers
it ’ud bin twice as much.”
* * * *
a ’ .... „
Watery William : When power
stations become obsolete the Speck will
... , r ,
still be able to put a value on some ot
its hydro-electric assets and charge them
j-q tHo anulinir industry Fach veur at
10 1 . an U ir >t, industry tacn year at
spawning time, first the brown and then
the rainbow trout leave their abode in
the abundant waters of the Great Lake
and travel up the feeder streams to lay
their eggs. The Liawenee Canal, built
to divert the upper waters of the Ouse
River into the lake storage scheme, pro-
vides one of the largest and most un-
restricted passages for these excursions.
When the season of romance is at its
peak in Fishland the canal flow is low-
ered by closing the control gates, the
trout being cornered between two nets.
Workers cased in waders paddle about
in a couple of feet of icy water, which
seems to be half fish, as layers three or
four deep extending across the canal
width and for chains along it can be
seen. The fish are scooped up in large
hand nets, and agile operators squeeze
bucket after bucket of ova and milt from
them before returning them to their
thirstless home. The winnings are carted
off to the hatcheries near New Norfolk
and at Launceston —milt goes away for
serum, too. Young fish return to
Miena, grow up in special ponds formed
by water coming through the dam to
drive the turbines. When size permits
they are cast into the lake to meet their
ancestors, swallow hooks, delight anglers
and provide tales of the big ones that
escaped.
“Nordbo”: If I were disposed to go
beachcombing I would pick a likely spot
near Cape Tribulation, a few miles north
of Cairns (N.Q.). Beautiful hard sand
beaches lined with huge shady trees, a
coral reef outside with plenty of fish,
bananas, pawpaws and other fruit avail-
able from the Mason settlement close by
—these are some of the attractions. Pass-
ing steamers are obliged to go close to
the Cape, and I would watch them in-
dulgently from under the astonishing tree
that recently gave shelter to 80 picnickers,
who played the usual games, including
cricket, without once having to leave the
shade.
* * * *
“Atrax”: A brilliant black-and-
yellow insect crouched flat near to a
greenhead-ant nest. The fierce hunters
pulled it about for a while, then, except
one, left it for more profitable search.
The lingerer drew nearer, attracted by
some strange compelling influence. The
stranger raised itself to reveal a bristly
patch on its segmented belly. Seizing
the bristles in its jaws, the ant sucked
avidly from liquid specks at their roots.
In a few seconds its head hung down in
stupor. Instantly its host moved back
and held the drunken guest upright be-
tween two extended forelegs so that the
lolling head exposed the soft neck tissue
between the hard carapace sections.
Into it the assassin thrust a short, curved
beak and sucked out the life juices. In
half an hour the dry shell was dropped,
and the killer crawled slowly towards
the busy searchers. Another interested
ant approached, vibrating its antennae
—an assassin bug has a brave appetite
for greenheads, and knows well how to
dope off any risk from the powerful
sting.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: When the Mason brothers
arrived at Cape Tribulation (north of
Cairns, N.Q.) to grow bananas on a large
scale, the dozen or so local blacks had
scarcely seen a white man. After polite
interchanges, mostly by sign language, the
brothers learned that the natives needed
beef. None being available, they got
tea, sugar, flour and a little tobacco,
But the chief, who could jabber a little
beche-de-mer English, kept repeating
“Beef, beef,” and presently drew the
Masons’ attention to a herd of wild cattle
near by. One of the brothers obligingly
shot one. An impromptu corroboree
followed. The caperings over, they
squatted round the carcass. Mason
waited, expecting them to cut up the
beast. But of this they gave no sign,
“Mary come bringum beef to camp,
Jacky?” he asked at last. “No, boss,”
replied the chief ; “bringum camp here.”
* * * *
“Spinifex”: The outback court pro-
ceedings followed an argument between
two Afghans. The charge was defama-
tion of character, and the Beak was in the
throes of an outsized attack of alcoholic
remorse following a binge the night be-
fore. He had not taken much interest in
the proceedings, which had consisted
mainly of unsuccessful efforts on the part
of counsel and constable to persuade the
plaintiff ’Ghan to repeat the words com-
plained of. Firmly convinced that such
repetition would place him in the eyes
of the Court on a level with the defen-
dant pig-hater, he held out. At length
the Beak lifted his head from his hands
and asked: “Did he call you a
?” “Yes, yes!” cried the ’Ghan, well
pleased at having someone take the job
off his hands. “Well, so you are! Case
dismissed!” came the reply.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: Back in the Boulder
Block days, about 1900, the greatest
aggravation that could be offered the
hashhouse babbler was to request that
one’s fried egg should be turned. Eggs
were the babbler’s prime grief. Bacon
there was in plenty, and chops and
steak ; but when Coolgardie erupted and
Kalgoorlie and Boulder appeared on the
map, henfruit was scarce in W.A. To
satisfy the demands of 50,000 hungry
goldfielders, eggs were brought from
South Oss. in huge barrels packed with
chaff. The journey was slow, with the
resultant percentage of overripes ex-
ceedingly high. Few were heroic enough
to eat a boiled egg. But it was when
cracked into the pan that the over-
ripeness showed at its best. Quite a
palette of colors was apt to develop, even
to pale blue, while the white would break
into an intriguing cluster of blisters. The
general flavor was that of mouldy chaff,
Addled yolks, of course, were the rule,
Yet the babblers managed to turn out
ham and eggs—it was only when one
asked for a turned egg that the camel’s
back broke. “I’ll give the blankard one
on a fork” would be the outburst from
the kitchen. And in due time the turned
egg would emerge, carried solemnly by
the waiter on a fork—a blistered disk,
varicolored and apparently suitable for
sole-leather. No use going crook or ap-
pealing to the management, for the hash-
slinger’s first qualification was the ability
to “use ’em,” while a babbler who could
handle that t’otherside henfruit was
valued above rubies.
JUMPING THE RATTLER.
“Motherless broke ! v What a joke, what a
joke!”
The wheels sort of sing the refrain
When you travel de luxe in your suite of trucks
At the end of a country train.
Playing at hidings with shunters at sidings,
And if you’re “chucked off” by the guard
It’s a tramp down the track till they’ve shunted
her back,
Then a jump when she’s clear of the yard.
There’s no time to lose, so you can't pick and
choose —
Just leap on the handiest truck;
And if it’s bulk wheat you can reckon you’re
sweet,
If it’s not —well, you’re just out of luck.
Under the sheet on the loose, yielding wheat
You’re set from the wind and the rain;
Cosy and snug on the old Wagga rug,
With a hole for your hip in the grain.
But if it’s a “mixed” you’ll get your doss fixed
By stacking the gear to the sides,
Then stretch out to rest and—bang! on your
chest
A couple of hundredweight slides!
Or you might jump a “double,” and that will
mean trouble;
Crawling around like a sheep •
On a batten-ridged bed, with the sheep over-
head
To step-dance and sing you to sleep.
N.S.W.
B.A . KER.


BALL AD OF A
SQUATTER’S
DAUGHTER
BY L.M.D. O'Neil
They could not find the squatter's lass
In any nook or cranny .
They asked of all the station-hands;
They asked of old black Cranny.
Her Sunday hat hung on its hook
Beside the fly-specked curtain;
She had not slept upon her bed—
“ There's something wrong, that's certain!
"IVc’ll find her dead.” her mother said,
"By sohie lagoon or SOME tree.”
Instead of which they found the miss
Perched high within a gum-tree.
Across the dusty plain she gazed
Into the blue horizon;
They squinted all, but could not see
What she had set her eyes op.
Up rode upon his prancing steed
Her sire, the old grey squatter;
v Come down.” he called, "from out of there!
Come down, my darliqg dotter!’
v Nay, nay,” she said, and shook her head.
“Dear father, cease your try in'
Here I shall sit till he returns.”
"Who?" "Faithless Bill O'Brien!”
v Now. where's the dog-eared dingo gone?”
"He's gone to Augathella!”
"IVell, what’s the odds? Come out of that,
My darling Isabella!”
"He promised me that we should Wed.
And now the blighter’s left me!
t Now like - the Lady of Shalolt
Hath cruel Fate bereft me.
‘Here I shall sit all pale and iyan
Till I have done a perish.
IVhen 1 am dead he'll think upap
Her whom his heart did cherish.”
"Now, by our Lady,” swore her dad,
I "I’ll find the blooming varlet!
/ Oh, I shall pierce him through and through
Until his blood runs scarlet! '
He wheeled his steed, he wailed not
For topcoat or umbrella;
l With vengeance blazing in his eyes,
He rode to Augathella.
And sky-high in a mighty branch
She roosted like a blossom; '
A mopoke camped on her right side x
And on her left a possum.
And seven days.and seven nights
Passed, dreary and unhappy;
And still she saw no sign of them,
Her lover or her pappy.
The morning dawned in gold and flame,
She said, “My eyes are lyin';
It cannot be-~~by cripes, it is-~-
My daddy and O’Brien!"
O'Brien stood beneath the tree,
Eyes brimming with emotion;
“/ did not dream you loved me with
Such undeserved devotion!”
*7 Won’t descend!" the damsel cried.
"With shame my cheeks would redden
If anyone should say of me,
1 had a shotgun Weddin !”
“When 1 am dead, O bury me
In a coffin lined with satin;
A band of pearls upon my brow,
And an epitaph in Latin!”
Have done, have- done! O’Brien roared.
"If you won’t come to ME down,
Well, 1 have brought my trusty Plumb—
/’ll chop the flaming tree down!”
Not that! the maiden shrieked, and jumped;
He staggered, but he caught her;
And merrily rang the Wedding-bells
For the squatter’s lovely dauehtcr.
SJie suffered much, she suffered long,
In sorrow lone and bitter;
But she got her man, and won renown —
Our champion gum-tree sitter!


AUSTRALIAN
EXPLORERS
First Investigators.
I . A HEN Arthur Phillip landed his little colony
\ A J of a thousand souls in Sydney Cove there
VV was not a man or a woman to whom the
country was not wholly fabulous, almost ter-
rifying, and more than a little grotesque. Every con-
dition was different from anything any of them had
ever experienced. The seasons were reversed. Strange
trees, new shrubs, weird animals, queer little flowers,
extraordinary birds —the kookaburra must have been
the very queerest of them all, with his wild, unholy
laughter—and insects, as strange as they were hideous,
gave them cause to wonder.
To Phillip there was a paramount need of finding
out all about the land lying north and south and west
—how it might be made to serve the pressing needs
of the precarious settlement.
As soon as the camp on Port Jackson had been
got into some sort of going order he began to make
excursions into the interior and along the coast. If.
the settlement was to live it was imperative that he
should immediately possess himself of country more
suitable for farming than the barren, rocky ridges
surrounding headquarters.
DHILLIP’S first expedition was to Broken Bay,
* where he gave the name of Prime Minister
Pitt to the noble sheet of water stretching south from
Barrenjoey Head. In the following month he explored
CAPTAIN AKTHuK PHILLIP.
the North Shore of the harbor, and saw from its
heights, far away in the west, the long cobalt wall of
the Blue Mountains. He called them first of all, in
their northern aspect, “the Carmarthen. Hills,” and the
southern part “Lansdowne Hills,” but these titles were
never popular.
Phillip had an idea that a large river must flow at
the base of the distant ranges, and accordingly organ-
ised an expedition to find it. He was accompanied by
eleven officers and men, and although they didn’t
reach the river they found some land in the Parra-
matta district which he described as “a country that
might be cultivated with ease.” In the following year
(1789) he came across the river flowing exactly where
he had thought it might be, and named it after Lord
Hawkesbury, the President of the Council of Trade
and Plantations.
The discovery of the Hawkesbury was the out-
come of the exploration of Broken Bay by the Gov-
ernor himself, and next year he travelled up it by
boat as far as some rising ground, which he named
Richmond Hill. At about the same time Captain
Watkin Tench and Surgeon Arndell, with Mr. Lowes,
Surgeon’s-Mate of H.M.S. Sirius, a couple of marines
and a convict, starting out from Parramatta, discov-
ered the Nepean, the main stream of the Hawkesbury,
which rises in the Wollondilly and joins the Hawkes-
bury where the Grose River flows out of the Blue
Mountains.
| N the following September Botany Bay and its rivers
1 were charted by Captain Hunter, of the Sirius, and
in December Lieutenants Dawes and Johnston, with
Mr. Lowes, crossed the Nepean near Penrith, and in
three days reached a point fifteen miles distant in the
The portraits of explorers and others in this
series are reprinted from “The Picturesque
Atlas”; most of them were the work of William
Macleod before he joined “The Bulletin.”
With the exception of those on Charles Sturt
and Gregory and Forrest, which are by Will
Lawson, the articles were written by J. H. M.
Abbott.
ranges, which was probably the high ridge above
Linden railway station.
The next year Tench and Dawes tried to make
their way up the Warragamba gorge, but were com-
pletely frustrated by its wild entanglements. In his
book about New South Wales Tench explains how
these early explorers checked their distances.
“Our method in these expeditions,” he says, “was
to steer by compass, noting the different courses as
we proceeded, and counting the number of paces—
of which 2200 on good ground were allowed to be
a mile. At night, when we halted, all these courses
were separately cast up and worked by a traverse
table, in the manner a ship’s reckoning is kept; so
that by observing this precaution we always knew
exactly where we were, and how far from home —an
unspeakable advantage in a new country, where one
hill and one tree is so like another that fatal wan-
derings would ensue without it. This arduous task
was always allotted to Mr. Dawes who, from a habit
and superior skill, performed it almost without a stop
or an interruption of conversation ; to any other man
on such terms it would have been impracticable.”
Captain William Paterson, George Johnston, John
Palmer and Edward Laing in 1790 made another
attempt to cross the mountains. Boats carried their
stores by way of the Hawkesbury to Richmond Hill,
and they followed up the bed of the Grose River for
about 10 miles, but the going was too rough, and they
turned back after meeting their fifth waterfall. Then
Henry Hacking, lately a petty officer of the Sirius, set
out, but was back in a week with an account of in-
terminable steep and rocky ridges, densely wooded
and all but inaccessible. So barren was the country,
he said, that in seven days’ travel they encountered
only one native.
George Bass came ashore in 1796 to try what he
could do, and had a fearful fortnight of it on the north
side of the Grose, but he reached either Mount Tomah
or Mount King George.
The ex-convict Wilson, Ensign Barrallier and
George Caley in turn attempted the crossing of the
Blue Mountains with no better luck than any of their
predecessors.
DARRALLIER’S two journeys are particularly
*—* interesting. On the first he was out about a fort-
night, and got nearly 50 miles south-west of Richmond
Hill, claiming to have discovered a new river. On
the second he entered the ranges on November 6,
1802, and was out about seven weeks, covering
approximately 140 miles.
The late R. H. Cambage, Under-Secretary in the
N.S.W. Mines Department, made a special study of
this journey. He traces every step the explorer took
by following carefully Barrallier’s geological and
botanical notes. His memorandum describes the
route taken.
Starting from Parramatta in November, 1802,
Barrallier passed by Prospect Hill and crossed the
Nepean a few miles above Camden. He went close
to the future site of Picton, and then turned west to
a gorge above the Nattai River, where he left his
bullocks and wagon in a depot camp. He travelled
six miles along the Nattai to where it joins the Wol-
londilly, and then went to the Peak Mountains at
Yerranderie. Here he was opposed by the natives,
and made a retreat to his base camp on the Nattai.
After seven days’ rest Barrallier started out again.
The party passed through the gap north of the
South Peak and got to Colong Creek. Still pushing
on westward, through a deep cleft in the mountains
(Barrallier’s Pass), they came out near the head of
Bindook Swamp. After crossing Bindook Creek the
advance to the west was stopped by the high and
steep precipices along Gulf Creek, so the party turned
north either by the Waterfall or Lanerigan’s Creek,
which led to the Kowmung River.
If Barrallier had turned westward on the ridge
separating Gulf Creek and Waterfall Creek he might
have reached the main range at Mount Werong with
comparative ease. But when he came to the Kow-
mung he followed it down to Christy’s Creek, and
decided to pursue a course up this stream, finding
himself blocked at its head by impassable cliffs. He
was in one of the wildest parts of the Blue Mountains,
and provisions were giving out, so that he had no
other choice than to make his way back to where he
had left his bullock-dray. Had he gone up the Kow-
mung, instead of downstream, he might have had a
chance of getting across the range.
I N 1804 George Caley attempted to cross the moun-
*■ tains from Prospect Hill. He went up the north
side of the Grose Valley, finding the country barren
dind rugged in the extreme, and almost impassable.
After enduring fearful hardships and the most strenu-
ous toil he reached Mount Banks (Mount King
George) on the twelfth day after crossing the Hawkes-
bury, but found the country beyond hopelessly in-
accessible.
George Caley was typical of the explorers Aus-
tralia knew between Phillip and Macquarie—they
were naturalists and investigators rather than
the landseekers who came afterwards. He was one of
Sir Joseph Banks’s young men, and had been appointed
by the “Father of Australia” his botanical collector
in New South Wales. On the journey of 1804 he
came closer to getting over the Blue Mountains than
anyone had done since first their passage was
attempted, and only bad luck prevented him from
forestalling the achievement of Blaxland and his party
in 1813.
When he came out on the inaccessible valley from
Mount King George—directly opposite Govett’s Leap
near Blackheath —his men “struck,” and would go
no further on any consideration. They had had more
than enough of these tremendous ravines and never-
ending hills, and were knocked up and starving. Had
he turned to the north, and gone round the head of
the valley in the direction of the present Mount Vic-
toria, he could easily have got down the western side
of the plateau, not very far from where Blaxland,
Wentworth and Lawson actually did so nine years
later.
The literature of these earliest explorations is
plentiful and good, some of it very good indeed.
Tench’s book makes delightful reading, and Phillip,
Hunter and Collins have each left records of their in-
vestigations. No new British settlement has had its
first history so well written.
Blaxland, Wentworth and
Lawson.
IT was not until 1813 that the ranges of the Blue
Mountains were crossed for the first time by
Gregory Blaxland, William Charles Wentworth
and William Lawson —the first a wealthy free
settler in the Hawkesbury district, the second a lad of
19 the son of D’Arcy Wentworth, Superintendent
of Police, and the third a lieutenant of the Corps of
Veterans and formerly an officer of the New South
Wales Corps, who was settled on a grant of land at
Prospect, near Parramatta.
The many unsuccessful attempts made to cross
the Dividing Range had vividly impressed the tremen-
dous difficulties of the task upon everyone in the
Territory. There were many attempts made by run-
away convicts. A curious belief had gained ground
among the prisoners that civilised settlements lay
somewhere over the ranges. A few returned starving,
but the majority perished.
After several other failures Governor King wrote:
“As far as respects the extension of agriculture beyond
the first range of mountains, that is an idea that must
be given up, as the rocks to the west of that range


THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZO
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor— fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/9
Superfine steel, ivory handle %!/-
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety razor,
3/6 extra. Fits $ and J blades.
CRAIG & AITKEN
4r
B
L '
86'
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Obtainable at all Leading Stores.
Manufactured by—
Travel the Modern Way!
The “HOLSMOR” Suit Case
Each Case EXPANDS to 16 different
sizes. There is nothing to equal the
"HOLSMOR” in strength, lightness,
and good appearance.
I. SHER,
52-56 Bouverie St.,,
Carlton, N. 3, Melb. 1
lift! CU AD
iiuunyr
Eypandinq Suit Case *
wear the most barren and forbidding aspect, which
men, animals, birds and vegetation have ever been
strangers to, a better proof of which may not be
adduced than the remark of one of Caley’s party in
returning, who exclaimed on seeing two solitary crows
‘that they must have lost their way.’ ”
A BAD drought in 1812 induced Governor Mac-
quarie to give every encouragement to further
efforts directed towards finding new pastures, and
Blaxland’s project received enthusiastic support from
the Government. Leading four pack-horses, and
attended by four convicts and five dogs, the party
started from Blaxland’s farm at South Creek on May
11, 1813. Crossing the Nepean at Emu Ford, they
camped a couple of miles from the river, and began
their journey into the unknown next day.
That first day’s scramble to the top of the ridge
was slow and trying, but nothing to some that suc-
ceeded it. The tangled undergrowth would hardly
let them pass, the country was incredibly rough and
rocky, and the narrow ridge they followed, in accord-
ance with Blaxland's plan of keeping above and
between the gorges of the Warragamba and the Grose,
was tortuous and difficult.
By sunset they had pushed only 34 miles into the
wilderness, and were quite done up when they made
their camp beside a small lagoon near what is now
Glenbrook.. Next day they made only a couple of
miles through the scrub.
On the 14th they carved a way through the tea-
tree for five miles, and went back at dark to their
previous night’s camp. Next day they cut a narrow
track for another two miles, and again went back to
sleep. There was no feed now for the horses, and
for several days the party had to carry bundles of
grass with them on the pack-saddles.
Water along the top of the ridge was seldom to
be found, and they had to climb down into the ravines.
The men were utterly dejected and disheartened—
indeed, almost mutinous, and hardly to be persuaded
or bullied into pushing on. But they did make some
advance, even if it was terribly slow and painful.
On the 17th the party camped close to where
Henry Parkes was buried at Faulconbridge 83 years
afterwards, and by the 22nd were on the highest ridge
north of Wentworth Falls. They pushed with diffi-
culty across the future site of Katoomba, and marked
the tree whose old stump is still standing a mile or so
west of the town. On the night of the 24th they slept
where Blackheath is now. The following day they
got on 34 miles, which landed them in about the
position of Mount Victoria.
The country became less densely scrubbed after
this, and on the 27th they travelled 54 miles, reaching
Mount York on the 28th. Here they stood, and gazed
down into a western valley, and, although they did
not immediately realise it, they had at last opened the
door to the western plains.
D LAXLAND wrote of the achievement in the third
person: “The climate here was found very much
colder than that of the mountain or of the settlements
on the east side, where no sign of frost had made its
appearance when the party set out. During the night
the ground was covered with a thick frost, and a leg
of the kangaroo shot by one of the party was quite
frozen. From Ihe dead and brown appearance of the
grass it was evident that the weather had been severe
for some time past. They were all much surprised
at this degree of cold and frost in the latitude of about
34deg.
“On the Monday they proceeded about six miles,
south-west and west, through forest land, remarkably
well-watered, and several open meadows clear of trees
and covered with high, good grass. They crossed two
fine streams of water.
“Traces of the natives presented themselves in
the fires they had left the day before, and in the
flower of the honeysuckle tree scattered around, which
had supplied them with food The party encamped
by the side of a fine stream of water, at a short dis-
tance from a high hill, in the shape of a sugarloaf
[since named Mount Blaxland]. In the afternoon
they ascended its summit, from whence they descried
all around forest or grass land, sufficient in extent, in
their opinion, to support the stock of the colony for
the next thirty years.
“This was the extreme point of their journey. The
distance they had travelled they computed at about
fifty-eight miles nearly north-west; that is fifty miles
through the mountain (the greater part of which they
had walked over three times), and eight miles through
the forest land beyond it, reckoning the descent of
the mountain to be half a mile to the f00t....
“They now conceived that they had sufficiently
accomplished the design of their undertaking, hav-
ing surmounted all the difficulties which had
hitherto prevented the interior of the country from
being explored, and the colony from being extended.
They had partly cleared or, at least, marked out a road
by which the passage of the mountains might easily be
effected.”
SO it was that the gateway to the real Australia
was unlocked. Hitherto the country had been
British only along a strip of less than 100 miles of
coastal land, with a depth of not more than 40 miles.
It was a great achievement. The difficulties that con-
fronted those seven men, with their hungry horses
and dejected dogs, are hardly imaginable now, but
it is possible to get some idea of them by glancing
at the table which records the daily distances they
were able to travel.
May 11.. .. 2 miles May 22 .. .. 4J miles
„ 12 31 „ „ 23 .. .. 31 „
„ 13 •• -.3 „ „ 24 .. .. 41 „
”\* '• •• \ ” ” 25 • • 3 * ”
„ 16 .. ..0 ”27 ' ' "il ”
” 20 !. .. 5 ~ 30 .. .. 0 „
;, 21 .. ..4 „ „31 .. ..6 „
Total 66J miles
They took 21 days going out, but they went back
over the blazed trail in a week. On the night of
June 5 they made their camp on the western bank of
the Nepean, and on Sun-
day, June 6, were safely
back at Blaxland’s home-
stead at South Creek,
starved, weary and worn
out. Their achievement
was hailed with universal
delight, and Macquarie’s
enthusiasm was expressed
in the best Macquarie
manner with a grant of
land for each of them in
the new country.
The opening of the
door in the Blue Moun-
tains was in reality a slow
process. Several names
have to do with it besides
those of the pioneers.
There was William Cox,
who constructed a prac-
ticable road from the
Nepean to Bathurst in six
months. And there was
John Whitton, Engineer-
in-Chief of the New South
Wales railways, who laid
steel rails across the ranges
with his wonderful and
fantastic zigzags by Lap-
stone and Lithgow nearly half a century after Blax-
land’s march over the high skyline of the mountains.
And there were hundreds of nameless and forgotten
men, toiling in the sweating and hopeless chain-gangs,
who constructed Major Mitchell’s improved highway
beside and along Cox’s primitive road.
MATTHEW FLINDERS.
Bass and Flinders.
WHEN H.M.S. Reliance sailed from Plymouth
in February, 1795, carrying Captain John
Hunter, R.N., to take up the Governorship
of New South Wales, she numbered among
her officers two young Lincolnshire men who were
destined to leave their mark in the records of Aus-
tralian exploration—George Bass, the surgebn, and
Matthew Flinders, a senior gunroom officer. Their
work did much to put this country on the map.
Twenty years afterwards, when the fate of his
friend had become one of the tragic mysteries of the
South Seas, Flinders wrote with enthusiasm of his
first acquaintance with “a man whose ardor for dis-
covery was not to be depcessed by any obstacle, nor
deterred by danger,” and of Flinders it has been
written that “few men in maritime history have
achieved so eminently unsparing devotion to an
arduous task with such great practical skill and scien-
tific knowledge.”
The two friends had been only a month in Port
Jackson when they began their notable and valuable
series of explorations. Bass had brought out with
him in the Reliance a little cockleshell of a boat, only
eight feet long, which he called the Tom Thumb. In
this tiny dinghy they went down to Botany Bay and
explored the inlet thoroughly, coming back to
Sydney so keen about discovery that they had another
boat, not much bigger than the Tom Thumb, built
at the Government dockyard. Early in 1796, they
sailed southward as far as the Five Islands off Wollon-
gong.
BASS obtained leave from the Reliance in June to
try his luck in finding a way across the Blue Moun-
tains, but after a fortnight in the gorges and ravines
along the north side of the Grose Valley, he was
forced to turn back when his provisions ran out.
Next year (1797) he was sent in a whaleboat to Coal-
cliff to see if he could find any survivors from the
crew of the Sydney Cove, an East Indiaman which
had been wrecked in the Furneaux Group. He found
some skeletons, but also discovered seams of coal in
the cliffs, which were the beginning of the Illawarra
coalfields.
The information he had gleaned from the sur-
vivors of the wreck induced him to ask Governor
Hunter for a good boat and a crew of six seamen, in
order to explore the locality in which the East India-
man had come to grief. The Governor was agreeable,
so the doctor set off southward, Flinders not being
able to obtain leave.
The party left Sydney on the evening of December
3, 1797, and four days later was at Jervis Bay, where
Bass discovered and named the Shoalhaven River. In
another week he was in Bateman’s Bay, on the 19th in
Twofold Bay, and next day off Cape Howe. A month
out from Port Jackson, he rounded Wilson’s Promon-
tory, meaning to make for the Furneaux Group, but a
s.-w. gale drove him westward, and he went into
Western Port. On the
way back he made a
thorough examination of
Wilson’s Promontory and
the neighboring coast.
“Whenever,” he wrote
on his return, “it shall be
decided that the opening
between this and Van
Diemen’s Land is a strait,
this rapidity of tide and
the long south-west swells
that seem to be continu-
ally rolling in upon the
coast to the eastward will
then be accounted for.”
Flinders, who had
meanwhile been to the
wreck of the Sydney Cove
in the little Francis, had
arrived at the same con-
clusion, and the navi-
gators persuaded Hunter
to assist them in confirm-
ing their theory. In the
last quarter of 1798 he lent
them the sloop Norfolk,
of 25 tons, and on October
7 they set out from
Sydney.
They turned into Twofold Bay and surveyed it
carefully, reporting it as a likely situation for a whal-
ing depot, and then, passing Cape Barren Island,
sailed westward through Bass Strait, along the
northern coast of Van Diemen’s Land, discovering
the mouth of the Tamar on December 3. Pushing
on west, they presently came into open ocean, and
then turned southward, sailing right round the island.
Arriving at the mouth of the Derwent on December
21, the two spent ten days exploring its bays and
branches, and on the 31st shaped a course back to
Sydney, where they arrived on January 12.
I N the middle of 1799 Bass returned to England,
I but was back in New South Wales next year as
part-owner and captain of the brig Venus. She
arrived in Port Jackson in August, 1801, and was at
once employed in carrying supplies of pork and salt
from the South Sea Islands. She made two voyages
in this trade to Tahiti, and then Bass set out on an-
other, intending to go on from Tahiti to the coast of
Peru. He sailed from Sydney on February 5, 1803,
but from that day to this nothing more has been
heard of him.
He was still a naval officer, and it may have been
that the Spanish regarded the Venus as a privateer.
It was reported in 1805 that the brig had been cap-
tured by the Spaniards, and Bass sent as a prisoner
to the silver mines, and this may indeed have been
correct. A dozen years afterwards a rumor spread
that he was still alive in South America, but it was
altogether vague and unsupported.
Flinders took the Norfolk northward to explore
Captain Cook’s Glasshouse Mountains and Hervey
Bay while Bass was in England. He returned to Syd-
ney on August 20, 1799,' after naming Shoal Bay,
Sugar Loaf Point, Pumice Stone River and Port
Skirmish, where he had a slight affray with the natives.
On returning with the Reliance to England his charts
and records were published and Sir Joseph Banks
(Continued on page 31.)


MANY STUDENTS EARN £6, £7, £7lOl-
- WEEK After Few Months’ TRAINING
A w '
MM #l^
tl
,- ;: fv
■
■
.
i
•V
TRAIN AT HOME
For An Interesting Position In
DIESEL ENGINEERING
Many Diesel Engineering College students have
completed their courses in as short a period as four
months—qualifying for £6, £7, £7/10/- a week
jobs.
To-day is the Diesel Age! Mines, ships, buses,
trains, aeroplanes—more and more power-users
in every industry are changing to Difesel, the
modern, highly efficient, more economical power.
As a result, new, well-paid jobs are opening up
every day to Diesel-trained men. Still more men
will be wanted in the future in Diesel operation,
service, maintenance and sales, and positions in
other power fields will become scarcer. Post the
coupon below NOW for free booklet explaining
this new motive power, and get the facts about
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE home
study course . . . See how YOU can fit your-
self for a position in this new industry of to-day
and to-morrow by qualifying for the D.E.C.
Diploma.
NO EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
No Previous Engineering Knowledge Needed
Because of the professional standing of the
College, the practical method of training
and its proved record with 1400 students
throughout Australasia, the D.E.C. course
offers the surest way to success in the
Diesel field.
The lessons in the course are briefly and simply written
by highly-qualifled and specially-trained engineers. They
are illustrated with clear, easily-understood diagrams, etc.,
which everyone can follow. You can read them as easily
as your newspaper. Each lesson is checked by competent
examiners, who take a personal interest in every student,
and to whom students may write about any problem
connected with the Course.
Join the band of 1400 Successful D.E.C. Students
Remember the motor industry, radio, talkies! Those who
got in early got the best jobs. YOU can get in early in the
Diesel field if you act now. The simple act of sending for
this free Diesel booklet may be the turning point in your life.
The D.E.C. Primary Course deals with the whole subject from
the ground up. It covers the two main sections of Diesel
engineering—TßACTlON DIESEL (tractors, motor buses,
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE IS AUSTRALIA’S
URGES T DIESEL SCHOOL
lorries, etc.) and STATIONARY DIESEL (mining and other power
plants). The fees are low, and may be paid by easy instalments or
in cash, whichever you wish.
Get This
FREE BOOKLET...
This interesting booklet by Mr. W. Kingsford Smith,
Principal of the College, provides you with full particulars
about this simple and efficient Training Course. Sending
for it means no obligation to anyone, but you owe it to
yourself to have the facts. Tear off and post the
coupon NOW.
"ii'V.WWWM
A
s
/
The Only College
Teaching Diesel Only.
Therefore Concentrating on Diesel Students.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS .
B. 7/12/'3B.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
PERTH.
NEWCASTLE.
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
BRISBANE.


came forward with a proposal for a complete examina-
tion of the Australian coasts, which was accepted by
the Admiralty.
H.M.S. Investigator was commissioned for the
work on February 16, 1801, and Flinders placed in
charge of her with the rank of commander. She
sailed from England soon after, and on December 6
was off Cape Leeuwin.
Flinders fixed Cape Leeuwin’s position, and spent
about a month in King George’s Sound. Then he
passed through the Recherche Archipelago, leaving
unaltered all the names bestowed upon the islands by
the French navigator D’Entrecasteaux eight years
before. From there on to the s.-e. corner of the con-
tinent he followed along a practically unknown coast-
line. In the middle of February the Investigator was
off Spencer’s Gulf.
Port Lincoln was surveyed, then Flinders passed
slowly down the east side of Spencer’s Gulf,
followed Kangaroo Island’s shoreline round to
the east side of Nepean Bay, zigzagged across Investi-
A.C. GREGORY.
gator Strait and into St. Vincent’s Gulf. He returned
thence to Nepean Bay, and on April 7 passed through
Backstairs Passage, where he met the frigate Le
Geographe, of Commodore Baudin’s expedition from
France.
On April 26 Flinders entered Port Phillip, which
at first he took for Western Port, but soon discovered
his mistake. At the beginning of May he passed out
to sea again, and by the 9th was anchored in Sydney
Cove.
''FHE long voyage round the vast island was resumed
* on July 21, when, in company with the Lady
Nelson, commanded by Lieutenant Murray, the dis-
coverer of Port Phillip, Flinders sailed northward
along the track of Captain Cook in the Endeavour.
They discovered Port Curtis and Port Bowen, and
Murray was sent back to Sydney. Flinders took the
Investigator through the Barrier Reef by Flinders
Passage, and at the end of August was in Torres
Strait. <
On November 3 the Investigator entered the Gulf
of Carpentaria, where the ship was careened for an
overhaul and found to be practically unseaworthy. A
return through the straight was out of the question.,
and Flinders made up his mind to go right round the
continent, in order to reach Port Jackson. He spent
over three months exploring the gulf and then made
for Koepang, in the Dutch East Indies, to effect what
repairs he might. Leaving there on April 12, he
arrived at Sydney, via the Leeuwin, on June 9. The
voyage round Australia had taken 10 months and 19
days.
The Investigator was too unsound for further
voyaging, and Governor King decided to send Flinders
home in H.M.S. Porpoise to get a better ship and ex-
plain his discoveries at the Admiralty. The ship was
wrecked over 700 miles north of Sydney on August
17, 1803, and, after establishing his castaways on a
sandbank islet, Flinders started back to Sydney in a
cutter on the 26th, getting there in just under a fort-
night. He at once took back three small vessels to the
rescue of the people marooned on Wreck Reef, him-
self in the Cumberland, a small craft of only 29 tons,
with orders to get to England as soon as possible.
I T was seven years before Flinders reached home.
I Calling at the He de France (Mauritius), he was de-
tained there by the French Governor, General Decaen.
A miserable misunderstanding and his own hostility to
Decaen seem to have been the causes of this misfor-
tune, but it was a tragic one for Flinders.
For six weary years he fretted out his soul on
the beautiful island, kindly treated, but impatient to
get away, and he was more or less a broken man when
allowed to depart in 1810. He reached England on
October 23, and devoted the short remainder of his
life to his magnificent book —a model of geographical
literature —A Voyage to Terra Australis, and in per-
fecting his charts. He died on July 19, 1814, the day
the book was published.
It is not generally known that the continent owes
its name to Matthew Flinders. As early as 1804 he
was in the habit of calling it “Australia,” though Sir
Joseph Banks was opposed to it, and Flinders was
obliged to call his book Terra Australis. However, he
was well backed up by Governor Macquarie, and
eventually “New Holland” was dropped in favor of
Australia —though the Colonial Office stuck to the
Dutch navigators’ name almost up to the middle of
the nineteenth century.
John Oxley.
JOHN OXLEY was just twenty-one when he came
to Australia as acting-lieutenant in H.M.S.
Buffalo in 1802 on the same voyage on which
came George Evans. Two years later he assisted
Lieutenant Robbins in surveying Western Port, and
in March, 1805, was given his full rank as lieutenant,
together with the command of the Buffalo. He re-
turned with his ship to England, but made other visits
to Australia until—on the recommendation of
Matthew Flinders —he was appointed Surveyor-
General of New South Wales, taking up the duties
of his office at Sydney in 1812.
Oxley had become a fairly large landowner in
the colony during his service in the navy, and had
received in grants about 1600 acres in the Cowpastures
(Camden) district. Almost the first employment given
him by Macquarie was the laying out of the town of
Bathurst and then he was sent to confirm and amplify
the discoveries made by G. W. Evans.
This expedition was of much importance in the
development of a knowledge of Australian geography.
It had been taken for granted that the rivers flowing
west out of the Dividing Range found their outlets in
an inland sea, and it was assumed that part at least
of Oxley’s travels would be by water. Boatbuilders
were sent to Bathurst with orders to go on to the
Lachlan and there construct the craft necessary for
an expedition into the interior of the continent.
Oxley’s party included G. W. Evans, second-in-
command ; Allan Cunningham and Charles Fraser,
botanists, and nine others. They formed a depot on
the Lachlan, where Oxley joined them on April 25,
1817.
pROM the terminal point of Evans’s journey down
* the river in 1815 they began their new exploring
on May 1, and followed the Lachlan’s channel for
12 days, when they met with an unexpected check.
The river overflowed both its banks, and spread out
over the country in marshes that gave no indication
of the course of the channel. “The whole country
from the west, north-west, round to the north,” wrote
Oxley, “was either a complete marsh or lay under
water, and this for a distance of twenty-five or thirty
miles in three directions. I therefore determined to
return to the place where the two branches of the
principal river separated, and follow the south-west
branch as far as it should be navigable.”
However, this brought no better results, so
Oxley decided to abandon the river and make for the
coast near Cape Northumberland, hoping to intersect
any river rising in these marshes and entering the
sea between Spencer’s Gulf and Cape Otway. He was
frustrated in this design by impenetrable scrub and
want of water.
A couple of days later the party struck the river
again, greatly to their surprise, and followed it down
until July 7, when Oxley recorded: “It is with
infinite regret and pain that I was forced to come to
the conclusion that the interior of this vast country is
a marsh, and uninhabitable.”
They turned east, and then nor’-east, to try to
reach the Macquarie, and so get back to Bathurst.
They found the river on August 19 and arrived in
the settlement ten days later.
P\ISGUSTED with the Lachlan, Oxley now pinned
his faith in the Macquarie as a highway to the
inland sea. He started from Bathurst on June 6;
1818, again accompanied by Evans, and by Dr. John
Harris, of Ultimo, as a volunteer.
Again, the belief in an inland sea disappointed
the Surveyor-General. He went about 50 miles
down the river from the present site of Warren, and
decided to turn back to Mount Harris, where he
formed a temporary depot. While the party rested
here, Evans went off to the nor’-east and discovered
the Castlereagh. Then Oxley made up his mind to
leave the Macquarie and turn eastward to the coast.
The party reached the Castlereagh on July 27,
and, crossing the Arbuthnot Range, presently came
into a magnificent pastoral country, which Oxley
called.the Liverpool Plains. They crossed and
named the Peel River, and pushed on east-
ward. On September 23, near the head of the
Hastings, Oxley and Evans climbed a mountain to
try to find a route down to the coast. “Balboa’s
ecstasy at the first sight of the South Sea,” wrote
the Surveyor-General, “could not have been greater
than ours when, on gaining the summit of this moun-
tain, we beheld Old Ocean at our feet.”
They traced the river down to a harbor at its
mouth, which Oxley called Port Macquarie. Follow-
ing the coast, they reached Port Stephens and the
Hunter district, and soon after were in Sydney.
Oxley had now discovered large tracts of country
suitable for settlement, and this was the beginning of
the era of the “squatter” pioneers. From now on ex-
ploration and pastoral settlement became indissolubly
linked. Flocks and herds went out into what had been
wildernesses —south and north and west —and the real
destiny of Australia began to shape itself. The whole
of the country explored was divided up by Governor
Darling into the “Nineteen Counties,” beyond the
limits of which settlement was forbidden ; the rest of
the country remained the property of the Crown,
and hardy “squatters,” always pushing further out
with horses, cattle and sheep, inspired succeeding ven-
tures in exploration.
OXLEY was next sent up the coast to investigate
Port Curtis, Moreton Bay and Port Bowen,
to see how they would do for penal settle-
ments. On October 21, 1823, he sailed north in the
cutter Mermaid with two companions, Messrs.
Stirling and Uniacke. They called at Port Macquarie,
where already a settlement was in existence, discovered
the Tweed River, and on November 6 arrived in
Port Curtis.
Oxley formed a poor opinion of the great harbor
where Gladstone stands to-day, and reported on it un-
favorably as a possible convict station. It was too
late in the season to go to Port Bowen, so they turned
south and anchored in Moreton Bay, where, to their
astonishment, they encountered a white man living
with the natives. This was Thomas Pamphlett,
who, voyaging with two others to bring cedar up
from Illawarra to Sydney, had been blown to sea in
a gale, and had finally made land again on Moreton
Island. The three had been with the blacks for seven
months.
At the southern end of the bay they found a fine
stream, and pulled up it in a boat for about 50 miles,
naming it after the Governor, Sir Thomas Brisbane.
About it Oxley again made the curious error that had
become a sort of obsession —the inevitability of an
inland sea:
“The nature of the country and a consideration
of all the circumstances connected with the appear-
ance of the river justify me in entertaining a strong
belief that the sources of the river will not be found
in mountainous country, but rather that it flows
from some lake, which will prove to be the receptacle
of those interior streams crossed by me during our
expedition of discovery in 1818.”
FOR the rest of his life Oxley was mainly occu-
pied in office work. In the middle of 1825 he
began a survey of the settled districts of the province,
dividing the country up into counties and parishes,
and was still so employed when he died on his estate
near Camden—the famous Kirkham —on May 26,
1828.
John Oxley was useful to Australia in more ways
than one. Macquarie found his advice in land
matters extremely helpful, and it was mainly owing
to his protests about the inaccuracy of titles that, after
1821, grants to settlers had to be properly and care-
fully surveyed. The carelessness of allotted boundary
marks had already ‘been the cause of complications,
and it was high time that something better than river
crossings and big trees were regarded as corners of
estates and beginnings of boundary lines.
Oxley was the woolliest of “Pure Merinos” and
had no room for the “Emancipist” element in colonial
society. In 1823 he was appointed to the old
nominee Legislative Council, but was not retained in
it after Darling’s arrival as Governor. He was
strongly opposed as Surveyor-General to all private
enterprise in exploration, and did his best, fortunately
without avail, to discourage the efforts of Hume and
Ho veil.
A brilliant man in some respects, he could occa-
sionally be narrow and prejudiced. He was often
wrongly enthusiastic and overzealous, but was always
JOHN McDOUALL STUART.
conscientious, reliable and eminently trustworthy.
He left a particularly fine record of his work in his
Narrative of Two Expeditions into the Interior of
New South Wales, published in London in 1820, a
valuable account of the country as he saw it.
Hume and Hovell.
HAMILTON HUME was a “Currency Lad,”
one of the first generation of “Cornstalks.”
He began his career as an explorer during
Governor Macquarie’s reign when in 1814,
starting from Appin in the Campbelltown district,
he and his brother climbed into the high country
lying round Berrima, Moss Vale and Bowral. What
he saw of the land thereabout induced him presently
to push on further, and he spent several years in open-
ing up the fine country southward of the tableland,
beyond Goulburn and as far as Lake Bathurst.
Settlement soon followed in his tracks, other
pioneers pushed on still further, and it was not long
before rumors began to come back to Sydney of new
rivers that had their sources in steeply mountainous
country far to the south. By the end of the Macquarie
period, Hume’s inquisitiveness as to what might lie
beyond Berrima had done much to expand the colony’s


boundaries, which had been extended 400 miles inland,
and was 300 from north to south.
William Hilton Hovell was born at Yarmouth in
England in 1786, went to sea as a lad and eventually
became a master mariner. He arrived in Sydney
with his wife and family in 1813, and for about half
a dozen years stuck to the sea, trading to New
Zealand and up and down the east coast of Australia.
In 1819 he at last settled down on a grant of land
near Narellan in the Campbelltown neighborhood.
On his own account Hovell made several short
exploring excursions, and in 1824 joined with Hume
in the great expedition overland to Port Phillip which
has made their names famous.
THEIR aim was to reach Western Port, the party —
the two leaders and six convicts —setting out from
Appin on October 2, 1824. They had six horses and
two carts drawn by four bullocks.
Hume’s station on Lake George was reached on
October 13, and on the 17th they went on towards
Yass. Soon after passing the limits of settlement
they found the Murrumbidgee River “running a
banker.” The explorers have left their own account
of the occasion.
“The green timber not being sufficiently buoyant,
a raft or boat could not be made. One
was, however, improvised out of one of the carts,
which was stripped of its axles, wheels, and
shafts, and covered with a tarpaulin. The next
step was to convey the stout end of a stout rope to
the opposite bank, for the purpose of plying the boat
backwards and forwards across the stream, to effect
which object Mr. Hume, with one of the men, under-
took the dangerous enterprise of swimming across
the river, taking with them a small line of about six
feet long, which they carried between their teeth,
and to the middle of which was attached a line of
similar description, but of sufficient length to reach
across the stream.
“This was not done without great difficulty and
some danger, both from the rapidity of the torrent and
the great pressure of the water on a length of line so
considerable... .so that they were swept down the
river a considerable distance ere they could reach the
opposite bank. One of the ends of their intended
tow-rope was now conveyed across the river by means
of the line, and, everything being in readiness, our
boat, not carrying less than six or seven hundred-
weight, made its first trip.
“The bullocks and horses were then conducted
across separately, some of the bullocks being in a
state of almost complete submersion during the
operation.”
After a day or two’s rest on the southern bank,
they pushed on into the rough and difficult country
lying behind where the towns of Tumut and Adelong
are situated to-day. Here the carts were left to take
care of themselves, and all the equipment packed on
the backs of the four bullocks. For some days the
explorers did little else than clamber up and down
the steepest of steep and almost impossible cliffs.
From the top of one of the ridges, at a distance of
a score of miles or so, they beheld a half-circle of
shining snow-clad peaks, and turned west into better
but still very rough country.
Quite unexpectedly they came upon a broad-
bosomed river flowing slowly through a wide valley
between low-lying ridges. It was full of fine fish, and
covered with wild duck and other waterfowl. This
was not far from where Albury stands to-day. They
took three or four days finding a crossing, then went
on again over much less difficult country, passing a
succession of fine tributary rivers—the Mitta-Mitta,
the Ovens, the Broken River and the Goulburn. They
called the main stream the Hume, and it is a historic
injustice that it has not retained the name of one of
its discoverers, but is now the Upper Murray, in
honor of Sir George Murray, a few years later Secre-
tary of State for the Colonies.
After this the country again became difficult.
They had come again into the main dividing range.
They clambered up Mount Disappointment, and could
see nothing but interminable series of ranges. At last
they got through the rough hills further westward and
descended into the coast country by Port Phillip, which
they reached on Corio Bay, not far from where the
city of Geelong is now. This was on December 16,
and they had been just about two and a half months
travelling the distance between Appin and the south-
western end of Port Phillip—no mean performance.
GETTING back to their starting-point gave the ex-
plorers nearly as much trouble as had the out-
ward journey. Their stores gave out, and their cattle
and horses became footsore and leg-weary. However,
the eight explorers seem to have been the handiest
of handymen. Somehow they contrived to feed them-
selves, and out of kangaroo-skins made stockings or
moccasins for the hoof-worn bullocks. They arrived
back at Lake George on January 18, 1825.
But when they reached Sydney they found trouble
awaiting them. Mr. Surveyor-General Oxley, who
had always maintained that the southern country
would turn out to consist of more or less arid and
useless wastes, was jealous of their success. They
had, too, been mistaken in identifying Corio Bay with
the shore of Western Port, which, when occupied in
1826, was not found to be a good place for a settlement.
The expedition led to the settlement of Victoria,
and it is regrettable that subsequent unpleasantness
should have arisen between the two explorers as to
which of them was responsible for their success. There
was enough honor and glory for both to share it
equally. In 1826 Hovell sailed with Captain Wright,
of the Buffs, to found the abortive settlement at
Western Port, and in 1828 Hume went with Charles
Sturt to search for the outlet of the Macquarie and
Lachlan rivers, when they discovered the Darling.
Allan Cunningham.
IN Sydney’s Botanic Gardens, enclosed in a sand-
stone obelisk, are the remains of one who would
have been delighted in his lifetime at the thought
that he was to rest in such a happily-chosen place
—Allan Cunningham, botanist, explorer and Austra-
lian pioneer. All about him, on the edge of the great
city he knew and loved in its township days, are beauti-
ful specimens of the flora to the knowledge of which
he devoted his life untiringly.
Cunningham was born at Wimbledon (Eng.) on
July 13, 1791, and trained for a legal career, which he
abandoned as soon as he could for the practical study
of botany, eventually becoming Assistant Director
of Kew Gardens. From this position he graduated as
one of Sir Joseph Banks’s young men, and in 1814
was sent to collect plants in Brazil. In the
middle of 1816, still under the same patronage, he
ALLAN CUNNINGHAM.
sailed for Sydney to study and collect specimens in
New South Wales.
Almost immediately he was sent exploring
with John Oxley, and when he returned at the end
of 1817 was attached to the survey of the Australian
coastline by Lieutenant Phillip Parker King, R.N.,
which employment retained him until April, 1822.
In the following August he began botanical research
in the Illawarra district, continuing subsequently in
the Blue Mountains and the country ’between
Bathurst and Mudgee.
Next year he began the series of explorations
which opened up the Liverpool Plains and the Darling
Downs, and in 1828 he discovered a route to the
Downs from Moreton Bay.
Though offered the position in 1831 of Colonial
Botanist at Sydney, he returned to England, sug-
gesting that the post might be given to his brother
Richard. This was done, and when the latter was lost
on Sir Thomas Mitchell’s expedition of 1835 the offer
was again made and this time accepted. Cunningham
arrived in Sydney for the second time, in 1837. He
spent six months botanising in Maoriland, returning
to Sydney somewhat broken in health, where he died
on June 27, 1839, in a cottage in the Botanic Gardens.
APART from its purely botanical side, Cunning-
ham’s most notable work for Australia lay in
what he did towards opening up for settlement the
vast and rich territories in the north of what was
then New South Wales, between the head of the
Hunter River and Moreton Bay. He had a natural
aptitude for exploring, and the experience he had
gained with Oxley and King stood to him well when
Governor Darling commissioned him to investigate
those wide and unknown areas.
With a party of six Cunningham set out from
old Segenhoe station on the Upper Hunter on April
10, 1827. He crossed the Dividing Range, turned
northward to skirt the Liverpool Plains, and in lati-
tude 31° 2' S. struck the track left by Oxley. Still going
north, he passed the valley of the Gwydir River, dis-
covered the Dumaresq, and eventually emerged from
a wild tract of indifferent country upon a wide area
of open downs of a rich black soil luxuriantly cov-
ered with splendid grass and herbage. Cunningham
has left an account of the discovery.
“At length, on the sth of June, having gained
an elevation of about nine hundred feet above the
bed of Dumaresq’s River, we reached the confines
of a superior country... .open downs of unknown
extent, which stretched, easterly, to the base of a
lofty range of mountains, distant, apparently, about
twenty-five miles.
.. .These extensive tracts of clear pastoral coun-
try, which were subsequently named Darling Downs,
in honor of his Excellency the Governor, are situated
in or about the mean parallel of 28° S., along which
they stretch east eighteen statute miles to the meridian
of 152°. Deep ponds, supported by streams from the
highlands immediately to the eastward, extend along
their central lower flats; and these, when united in a
w'et season, become an auxiliary to Condamine s River
—a stream which winds its course along their south-
western margin.
“The downs, we remarked, varied in breadth. At
their western extremity they appeared not to extend a
mile and a half, whilst towards their eastern limits
their width might be estimated at three miles. The
lower grounds, when permanently watered, present flats
which furnish an almost inexhaustible range of cattle
pasture at all seasons of the year the grasses and
herbage generally exhibiting, in the depth of winter,
an extraordinary luxuriance of growth. From these
central grounds rise downs of a rich, black and dry
soil, and very ample surface ; and as they furnish
an abundance of grass, and are conveniently watered,
they constitute a valuable and sound sheep
pasture....”
He goes on to tell of a remarkable passage
through the ranges —Cunningham s Gap by which
he hoped, and was able in 1829, to make communi-
cation with the coast at Moreton Bay.
NEXT year (1828) Cunningham went by sea to
Moreton Bay, where the Commandant of the
penal settlement established there in 1824, Captain
Patrick Logan, fitted out an expedition in which he
and Cunningham tried to reach the Darling Downs
by following up the recently-discovered Logan River
to its sources in the ranges. They were baffled by the
precipices and scrub of the wild mountain country,
and were compelled to fall back.
Forty years afterwards, on patches of alluvial
flats along the courses of the mountain rivulets, peach-
trees were found by stockmen looking for cattle in the
wild country thereabout —Cunningham had carried
with him on his travels a bag of peach-stones, one
of which he planted whenever he camped in a suit-
able spot.
In 1829 Cunningham again visited Queensland,
and was principally concerned with botanical research.
“But,” he says, “from that most interesting occupation,
in so novel and ample a field as the banks of the
Brisbane River afforded me, I found a short period
of leisure to devote to geographical inquiry In
this excursion 1 made such observations as fully es-
tablished two facts, viz.: That the Brisbane River
....originates on the eastern side of the Dividing
Range, its chief sources being in elevated lands, lying
almost on the coastline, between the parallels of 26°
and 27° ; and that the main ranges, which separate
the coast waters from those that flow inland, con-
tinue to the north in one unbroken chain as far as
the eye could discern, and present no opening or
hollow part in their elevated ridge. My pass, there-
fore, through these lofty mountains seems then the
only opening to the interior country from the coast
between the parallels of 20° and 29° South.”
After their return to Moreton Bay Cunningham
wasted little time before starting out again. He
began from Limestone, as Ipswich was then called,
and followed up the valley of the Bremer, succeeding
in finding a spur and gorge which took him easily to
the summit of the range. Without much difficulty
he reached the site of his old camp on the edge of
the Downs.
Landseekers who penetrated these mountains
afterwards complained that the easy ascent to the top
of the ridge reported by Cunningham was something
of a myth, and doubts still remain as to whether the
exact line of the explorer’s route has ever been
properly identified.
| N 1829 Cunningham again visited Moreton Bay,
* and spent six weeks in exploring the sources of
the Brisbane River. Oxley had somewhat fantasti-
cally supposed that its waters were derived from the
swamp in which he had lost the channel of the Mac-
quarie River during his western journey of 1818. Cun-
ningham traced the river to its beginnings amid the
eastern spurs and slopes of the Dividing Range, and
this journey brought his work as an explorer to an
end.
Of all those who journeyed into the interior of
Australia Allan Cunningham was probably the best
qualified to assess the economic worth of the new
country made available to settlers. His scientific
attainments were of the highest order, and as an ex-
plorer both his courage and resource were- unconquer-
able. In botanical collections all over the world the
name “Cunningham” is attached to hundreds of
species and varieties of plants. It was said of him
by that eminent botanist Sir J. D. Hooker that
“Cunningham’s botanical researches are by far the
most continuous and extensive that have ever been
performed in Australia, or perhaps in any other
country.”
Charles Sturt.
-“7" HE idea persisted that the great western rivers
/ —the Macquarie, the Lachlan and the Mur-
v, rumbidgee—would be found to empty into an
inland sea. The fact that they flowed west-
ward, apparently away from the ocean, seemed to
allow of no other explanation.
Governor Macquarie had been interested in
the problem, and Darling, who succeeded him, was
equally determined to solve it; he chose Captain
Charles Sturt, of the 39th Regiment, to lead an
expedition. Sturt had made short excursions into the
bush on his own account, and he had closely studied
the literature of exploration, but his appointment was
bitterly criticised.
“In the name of science and money-laid-out-to-
advantage” wrote the editor of the Sydney “Monitor,”
(Continued on page 34.)


fflL
m
mat
'' \ <?SV v f ; x . ■ / x‘4-
.. v* '#_-■ j
i#li|t
&
? iA'V 1 '
» » •;
✓ ■y*
IW^B
.'■:■■* . :
■
iISKII
■
m' . >
iSS ,- • ,
■
w&l?' v t
|p«ip»
■
If IS :Sp:£!
: I
■ 1 ' * - ...
.-■■■■: •■
p? :
mhmmmh
tvC ■r.
ills
■ ■ '■'<■,■
The great Xmas conspirator is Santa Claus. He
conspires to cut the kitchen session right in halves
and give every person, young and old. a jolly time
and an easy one. He brings Xmas trees and toys,
also delicious cakes and puddings which are light,
rich and ready to serve.
Arnott’s new Xmas cake tin, used for the first time
this year, has a simple paper strip label, which is
easily detached. With this removed you have a beau-
tiful, colourful cake container in perfect taste, which
very fittingly reflects the quality of its rich contents
and is a most graceful and desirable Xmas gift.
CHRISTMAS
-4-
F
A
PUDDINGS
Always Ask Your Grocer for Arnott’s, They Are Better Than Ever


ss mm
m
;■ £
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
3 NEW FLOORS
BEDROOMS...
with BATHROOMS
. . . AND 24-HOUR
HOT WATER
SERVICE .
You
Will
Enjoy
U
1 ‘
m
m
v
..
j .....
A Stay at the Wentworth
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality. You
are treated with the consideration you would meet with in
your own home. Although close to business and social
centres, the Wentworth is situated in an elevated position
away from trams, trains and other annoying influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms have just been added and a
24-hour hot-water service.
WENTWORTH HOTEL
SYDNEY
C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
“what qualifications has the captain either as a scien-
tific or a nautical traveller to justify this appoint-
ment? There are persons of both classes in the colony.
Hume, Hovell and company have greater claims than
Captain Sturt. A boat, very suitable for descending
Mt. York, has been built to sail on the new Aus-
tralian Caspian Sea.”
However, Darling stuck to his choice, and it proved
a wise one; Charles Sturt made his name as the
greatest of Australian explorers.
STARTING from Bathurst in November, 1828,
Sturt followed Oxley’s tracks as far as the marshes
the Surveyor-General had encountered on the Mac-
quarie. The years 1826-27-28 were drought years, and
the swamps which had stopped Oxley had dried, en-
abling Sturt and Hamilton Hume, who went with him,
to follow the main channel of the river for a con-
siderable distance. Eventually it vanished into a net-
work of shallow, snaggy creeks where the boat could
not be used, so the party set off westward on horse-
back.
The Darling was discovered, and to the astonish-
ment of the explorers the deep and muddy river was
found to be salt. Many years later it was learnt that
brine springs occurred in the river bed, but Sturt,
more convinced than ever that they were near an
inland sea, started down the river with renewed hope.
The party turned into the mouth of what is now
known as the Bogan River, and believing it to be the
long-sought outlet of the Macquarie they followed
its course for some distance. Branching off again the
Castlereagh was met with. The whole countryside
was drought-stricken, and Sturt returned to Sydney.
LJ E was off again towards the end of 1829. This
* * time he had drays, on which boats were carried,
and every necessary equipment, including a still, to
distil salt water. He followed Hume and Hovell’s track
to the Murrumbidgee, where the boats —one large
whaleboat and a smaller one —were put together, and
the drays hidden in the bush, the horses being taken
back to outlying cattle runs.
They started off down the river on January 7,
1830, and Sturt wrote in his diary: “Where I shall
wander to God only knows. I have very little doubt
that I shall make the coast.”
A ship had been sent to wait for the party in
St. Vincent’s Gulf in the belief that perhaps there
would be found the mouth of the river.
Going with the stream the smaller boat was
towed and only two oars were used, giving the men
plenty of time to rest, for the heat was terrific —as
high as 120 degrees at midday—while the banks of
the river shut out any breeze which might be blowing.
They were carried along swiftly until suddenly they
entered on a broad and noble river. They had found
the Murray, and sail was set and rapid headway made,
without any effort at the oars.
The expedition was exciting much curiosity and
animosity among the blacks. However, some of
them were friendly, notably four leaders who made
friends with Sturt and were given gifts. At a place
where a sandspit ran out into the stream, hundreds
of blacks had gathered to stop the progress of the
boats. They were fully armed with spears, nulla
nullas and boomerangs. Sturt served out arms and
ammunition ready for what might happen, though he
felt that they were hopelessly outnumbered.
Slowly the boat drifted towards the spit, where
the natives were shouting and gesticulating witp their
spears. Sturt had raised his musket to his shoulder
to fire a shot with the idea of frightening them, when
racing along the opposite bank came the four met with
previously. One swam across to the spit and, thrusting
the foremost natives back with his hands, harangued
them excitedly. His efforts were successful, for the
others, numbering fully 600 men, made signs of
friendliness.
A few hours later the boats passed the mouth
of a big river, which Sturt correctly supposed to be
the Darling. Food began to run short and they were
rationed. Curiously enough the men did not like
the river fish, including cod and perch, and did not
trouble to set night lines when they camped. This in
spite of the fact that the blacks lived largely on fish.
Rapid progress was made, and on February 9 the
river widened and the boats swung into the lake at
the mouth of the Murray, inside the 90-miles sand-
spit on which the surf thunders. No vessel was visible
in Encounter Bay, and, as a south-west wind was blow-
ing with some force, it was realised that no large
ship could venture inside. The party was too weak-
ened by short rations and hard work to walk to the
gulf to find the ship. There was nothing for it but
to row back the way they had come.
They had come 1700 miles down the rivers in 33
days, and it took them 84 days, making 21 miles a
CHARLES STURT.
day, to return to their camp on the Murrumbidgee.
The men fell asleep at the oars, became light-headed.
The river rose, swelling with floodwaters, making
their task harder. At last when 90 miles from the
camp at Wantabadgery from which they had started,
Sturt sent two men to bring provisions and, if possible,
the drays. In a week the drays arrived, and their
troubles were over.
D Y locating the mouth of the Murray Sturt had
possible the formation of a new colony,
South Australia, and he was appointed Surveyor-
General at Adelaide.
In 1843 he was again sent inland. Edward John
Eyre went with him as far as Lake Victoria on the
Murray, the plan being to follow the rivers as far as
possible, then strike westward past the Barrier Range.
The expedition was well equipped. It numbered
twelve men, eleven horses, thirty bullocks, a boat and
boat carriage, three bullock drays, a horse dray, a
spring cart, 200 sheep, four kangaroo-dogs and two
sheep-dogs. On its return over two years later, though
one of its members, after whom Sturt named Mt.
Poole, was missing, and its leader was permanently
blinded, thirty sheep remained and walked soberly
behind the drays from force of habit, as they had
done over thousands of miles of scorching plains and
sandhills.
In a letter to his wife, written after leaving the
Darling’s banks, Sturt wrote: “Poole has just returned
from the ranges. He says he saw high ranges to the
north and north-west [Grey Ranges] and water in
fact, a sea extending from horizon to horizon. What
is all this? Are we to be prosperous? I hope so.
I am sure you do. To-morrow we start for the
ranges, then for the waters, the strange waters on
which boat never swam and over which flag never
floated. Both shall ere long. We have the heart of
the interior laid open to us and shall be off with a
flowing sheet in a few days. Poole says the sea was
deep blue in color, and in the middle a conical island
stands to a great height. When will you hear from
me again?”
But instead of a sea Poole later found some
brackish lakes, which had been exaggerated in a mirage.
The conical island was Mt. Serle, discovered and
named by Eyre.
From then onwards, Sturt exercised great caution,
advancing only from one water supply to another,
Poole usually going ahead and finding the water.
In this way they went from the Barrier Range to
Flood’s Creek, named after one of the men. On
January 27, 1845, they found permanent water and
stayed there, in the heart of the desert, till July 17,
when rains came and released the drought-bound
party ; for Sturt soon found, after exploring every
creek for many miles, that they could not get across
the waterless plains till rain came.
An old blackfellow visited them, a solitary
traveller, and pointed to the boat, which lay upside
down, and indicated by signs that it was of no use.
There was no inland sea, though Sturt and another
man, Browne, were attacked by scurvy, a seamen’s
complaint in those days.
On July 12 rain fell, and the party started for
home. Poole died on the way near Broken Hill.
They crossed Eyre’s Creek and Cooper’s Creek. On
September 8, 1845, they started to cross Sturt’s Stony
Desert, and came later to the Barcoo River, the
Thomson, Diamantina and the Herbert. Thus Sturt
had discovered both of the main river systems of
inland Australia. He reached Adelaide at midnight
on January 19, 1846, ill and blind from the glare of
the desert. Sturt never entirely recovered his sight,
though he lived another 23 years till January, 1869.
Sir Thomas Mitchell.
BEFORE his arrival in Australia in 1827, Major
Thomas Livingstone Mitchell had already
f had an adventurous career. Born at Craig-
end, Stirlingshire, in 1792, he joined the
British army in Spain as a volunteer at the age of
16. As a mere lad, his survey work in the Penin-
sula—map-making and topographical sketching—was
considered of such value by the War Office that after
the campaign he was specially commissioned to make
plans of the battlefields. The journal of these experi-
ences, now in Sydney’s Mitchell Library—so micro-
scopically copperplate that a magnifying-glass is neces-
sary to read it —provides abundant evidence of the
thoroughness of his many-sided character.
At the age of 28 he relinquished soldiering to come
to Australia with the choice of three positions in New
South Wales —as a collector, a civil engineer or as
second-in-command to John Oxley, the Surveyor-
General. He accepted this last, and took up his duties
immediately, his work consisting mainly of map-
making and road-surveying and the compilation of a
general survey of the colony from the many detached
ones already made.
Oxley died in 1828, and Mitchell at once took
over the duties of head of the department.
His journeys of 1831, ’35, ’36 and ’45 made him
famous, and opened immense territories to settlement
{Continued on page 36.)


I
E>ui| your own
PENGUIN
JumboJ moiit
qive you
any of mine'
*55
m
m
m
V
&
&
u
J)
8
f
W<*
I
&
You know what an appetite
elephants have-they want the
lion s share always.
But elephants never forget, they
say, so perhaps this big fellow
once tasted Penguin Ice Cream;
no wonder he's greedy!
No one can forget the full
flavored creaminess of this NEW
ice cream—it is a delicious, rich
food.
ICE CREAM
She N.S.W. FRESH FOOD L ICE CO LTD.
PRODUCT OF


in Australia, but they were only episodes in the vast
amount of work he did for this country as a surveyor.
He was supremely capable, but, like Oxley, essen-
tially an autocrat. He had an idea that no one but
himself had done or could do any valuable explor-
ing in Australia, or had any theories worth discussing.
It is a fact, nevertheless, that no other could have done
better the great work for Australia he carried out
during his long term as Surveyor-General.
Nyf ITCHELL’S first journey, in 1831, was under-
taken to determine whether there really existed a
great river called by the aborigines the “Kindur.” He
made for the north-western plains, crossed the Peel
and the Namoi, after vainly attempting to navigate
down the latter in canvas boats, reached the Gwydir,
and in the beginning of 1832 discovered the Mac-
intyre. Shortage of supplies compelled him to return
to the settlements, and he did not do any further ex-
ploring for four years.
Those explorers before Mitchell had pushed out
in different directions from the settlements —Cunning-
ham to the northward, Oxley and Sturt to the north-
west, and Sturt and Hume to the south-west. Mitchell
designed to connect the knowledge of the country
gained from these expeditions so that all the terri-
tory within 500 miles of Sydney might become clearly
known. His first journey mapped with greater accu-
racy the country to the north of the Liverpool Plains.
When he set out again in 1835 he followed Sturt’s
course towards the Bogan and the Darling, but found
the country in much better condition —there was good
grass everywhere and the Darling was fresh instead
of salt. He established a depot at Fort Bourke, and
followed the river down for about 300 miles.
Mitchell had now established the fact of the Dar-
ling’s connection with the Condamine, the Namoi and
the Gwydir, and was anxious to discover whether it
joined the Murray or took a course to the west. He
undertook this task in 1836.
Following along Oxley’s tracks to the Lachlan
Valley—then mostly taken up as cattle stations—
Mitchell traced the river to the Murrumbidgee and
went along the Murray until he reached the river
mouth, which Sturt had supposed to be the Darling.
He made certain it was by following it up for some
distance, and then went back past the junction of the
Murrumbidgee and Murray, intending to cut Hume’s
tracks and determine the connection of the latter river
with the series of streams discovered by that explorer.
But when he reached Swan Hill he came on the
Loddon, and went first to the summit of Mount Hope,
and then to that of Pyramid Hill. The country he
looked down upon he found “Fit to become eventu-
ally one of the great nations of the earth.”
At once he decided to leave the valley of the
Murray, and struck across the Loddon and Avoca to
the sources of the Wimmera through splendid soil that
clogged the wheels of his drays until they could travel
no faster than three miles in the day. When he had
passed the Dividing Range he came to the wide
Glenelg. But the river led him down only to a shallow
estuary with a sandy bar, so he turned to the east and
came to Portland Bay, where he was astonished to
find a settlement of Europeans—a farm and whaling
LUDWIG LEICHHARDT.
station established recently by the brothers Henty. The
Hentys were as surprised as Mitchell when confronted
suddenly by a couple of dozen men marching in the
military style, always a feature of the Surveyor-
General’s expeditions.
Mitchell decided to return to Sydney by the most
direct route. He crossed the Pyrenees ranges and
camped a few days at Castlemaine, whence he made
an ascent of Mount Macedon, from the summit of
which he beheld Port Phillip forty miles away across
well-grassed plains. He crossed the Murray again
a short distance below Albury, and reached Sydney
after a seven months’ journey that had been full of
important and valuable discoveries.
THE stories of his travels were published in London
in 1838, under the title of Three Expeditions into
the Interior of Eastern Australia. Mitchell received a
knighthood, and the War Office, in recognition of his
work in the Peninsula years before, advanced him to
the army rank of lieutenant-colonel. He returned to
New South Wales the following year, and in 1844
was elected to the old Legislative Council as repre-
sentative of the Port Phillip district, but resigned his
seat in the following year, and set about prepara-
tions for another journey into the north.
His object was to find a route connecting the
settlements in New South Wales with the northern
coasts, and he planned to proceed northward until he
found a river flowing in a westerly direction whose
mouth might lie somewhere on the north-western
shores of the continent. He went north from Nyngan,
and crossed the Darling a little below Walgett, presently
encountering the system of watercourses known in its
various parts as the Culgoa, Balonne or Condamine.
This course led him in an easterly direction, and
when Le eventually turned north along the Maranoa
and Warrego he found himself east of the main range,
at the source of the Belyando. Mitchell then turned
back, crossed the Warrego into a wilderness of dense
scrub, and presently came out upon the upper waters
of the Barcoo, running north-west through splendid
open downs. For several days he followed the river’s
flow, and named it the Victoria, being certain that it
was the same Victoria River that empties itself into
the Timor Sea. However, just before coming to the
southward bend that would have exposed his mistake,
he was compelled to turn back, owing to shortage of
stores, and returned to Sydney.
There was some doubt, and Kennedy was sent to
investigate. Mitchell’s hopes were dashed, for the
Barcoo was traced back south-west into the same sand-
hills that had frustrated Sturt’s efforts a little while
before. Nevertheless, his exploration had opened up a
great area of first-class pastoral country on the table-
lands of the Dividing Range, and the pastoral pioneers
were soon pushing out along his tracks.
IN 1851 the Government of New South Wales com-
* missioned him to report on the goldfields of the
colony, and the task was carried out with the same
meticulous thoroughness that distinguished all his
work. Mitchell revisited England in 1853, with an
invention —a propeller for steamships designed on the
principle of the Australian boomerang. It was
patented in Great Britain and America, and tested
successfully in the royal yacht and H.M.S. Conflict.
The original model of the propeller is now in the pos-
session of the Pioneers’ Club in Sydney. He died at
Darling Point on October 3, 1855.
The best memorials to Mitchell and his work are
contained in the great highways he constructed west
and north and south of Sydney. Not only did he
complete the survey of Eastern Australia, and define
its settled districts into counties and parishes—he
also laid out towns, roads and public reserves and re-
surveyed and reconstructed the western and southern
main roads, as well as planning and supervising the
construction of the Great Northern-road, connecting
the districts of Port Jackson and the Hawkesbury
with the valley of the Hunter River.
Ludwig Leichhardt.
IT is just on ninety years ago since all Australia
began to wonder what had become of a German
scientist, Friedrich Wilhelm Ludwig Leichhardt,
who had departed into the unknown north and
disappeared completely, leaving behind him only the
story of an enthusiast who failed.
Born at Beskow, near Berlin, in 1814, Leichhardt
was educated in the Prussian capital in the thorough
German fashion and specialised in what used to be
called “natural science” —geology, botany, zoology
and chemistry. He came to this country intending to
carry out original research work, rather than with
any definite idea of undertaking travels of discovery.
The late G. F. Mann, one of his companions
over the first part of his last journey, has left a de-
scription of the explorer’s personality in his Eight
Months with Leichhardt: “Dr. Leichhardt possessed
a commanding presence, being a little over six feet
in height. He was by no means the strong man
which those who knew him only in Sydney supposed
him to be. All tendency to robustness vanished soon
after we commenced our journey. I was much sur-
prised to notice his slightly-built frame and absence
of muscular development. His head was well-shaped,
with high, intellectual forehead, smallish, grey, intel-
ligent eyes, dark brows, brown hair, the lower part
of his face was hidden by a bushy beard and
moustache, nose slightly aquiline... .His age, he said,
was thirty-five years.
“As a naturalist, I believe he stood high in the
estimation of those who were competent to form an
opinion of his talents. As a leader he was wholly
unfitted for such a responsible position, being de-
ficient in almost every requirement. He possessed
neither patience, temper nor ingenuity ; the organ of
locality was apparently absent.”
The opinions of others who knew Leichhardt
agree with Mann’s. He seems to have been highly
neurotic, full of inconsistencies and contradictions,
fired with keen enthusiasms and yet full of the pcaiest
and most trying smallncsse:
| EICHHARDT’S first years in New South Wales
were occupied with geological and botanical ex-
cursions about Port Jackson and along the Hunter
Valley. He made his way slowly northward, across
the Liverpool Plains, the New England district and
the Darling Downs to Moreton Bay, and spent some
time in the Bunya Ranges.
About this time the Government of New South
Wales was contemplating equipping yet another ex-
pedition to look for an overland route to Port Essing-
ton —hitherto unsuccessfully attempted by Sturt and
Mitchell. Leichhardt hoped for a position with the
party in a scientific capacity. But delay succeeded
delay in forming the official expedition, and Leich-
hardt at last determined to organise a private one
under his own direction. He had some small private
means, and by interesting friends, as well as sundry
influential people in Brisbane and Sydney, he suc-
ceeded in raising sufficient funds to equip scantily
SIR THOMAS MITCHELL.
enough—a small and somewhat inadequate party. He
had eight men, including two natives, seventeen horses,
sixteen head of cattle and four kangaroo-dogs.
The expedition left the Darling Downs on October
1, 1844, crossed the Condamine and the northern
watershed, and struck the head of the Dawson. Thence
they passed westward into what Leichhardt named
the Peak Downs country. In January he discovered
and named the Mackenzie River, and then the Isaacs,
a tributary of the Fitzroy. Following up this stream,
he crossed its watershed, and came on to the head-
waters of the Suttor, tracing it down to the Burdekin
and coming out eventually on to the slopes of the
Gulf of Carpentaria.
For some reason or other Leichhardt followed
down the rivers he named Lynd and Mitchell into
the York Peninsula, but was forced to turn south
again in order to get round the head of the Gulf. It
was during this march back on its tracks that the
expedition had some fighting with the natives, when
the naturalist Gilbert lost his life, and Messrs. Cal-
vert and Roper were badly wounded. There was no
sentry posted, and they were wholly unprepared for
attack, though in dangerously hostile country. That
the whole party did not lose thejr lives is only to be
ascribed to remarkable good fortune.
Gilbert was buried by the river which bears his
name, and, hampered with the two casualties, the
expedition slowly made its way round the head of
the Gulf. On December 17 —after a journey of four-
teen months —the expedition staggered into the settle-
ment at Port Essington. Leichhardt’s stock as an ex-
plorer soared. Australians are natural-born hero wor-
shippers, and the dreamy German scientist was almost
deified in 1846.
\ \ 1 HEN he conceived the ambitious design of cross-
“ * ing Australia from eafct to west, he received every
assistance and encouragement. The expedition set
out with equipment as complete as that of Leich-
hardt’s first had been deficient. But from the start
it was a failure and a calamity. The monsoonal
rains bogged it in the clinging black soil, it lost nearly
all its cattle, fever and sickness revealed that all its
medical stores had been left behind, its members
quarrelled and fought among themselves, and —worst
of all—Leichhardt failed most miserably as a leader.
The manner in which he sought to fix the blame
for this unhappy failure upon his comrades was mean
and petty. He wrote to his brother-in-law on October
20, 1847: “The cause of this failure may be described
as follows: In the first place, the young men I had
with me were not experienced bushmen. They be-
longed to Sydney, and had been accustomed to the
easy effeminate style of a city life. Their constitutions
wanted that elasticity which would have enabled them
....to take a contented, self-adapting view of cir-
cumstances ; in short, they could not confine their
attention to the present, but were always looking back
to the pleasures and comforts they had left behind
them in Sydney.”
G. F. Mann’s book, referred to previously, was
written forty years afterwards to defend his colleagues
and himself against such petulantly unjust aspersions,
and does it very effectively.
Leichhardt took himself to be the Complete Ex-
plorer. He wouldn’t abandon the idea of crossing
the continent along a parallel of latitude, and couldn’t
believe that anyone else might be capable of doing
it —though he always dreaded that someone might
forestall him. So he made strenuous and hasty efforts
to organise another crossing from the Pacific to the
Indian Ocean. There is not much known of the
o Continued on page 38.)


MACSON
Double-acting
PISTON
PUMPS
M
V
For Every Water Supply
PUMPS
from
ersons
Proprietary, Limited,
51 Bathurst Street, 546 Collins Street,
Sydney. Melbourne.
And at Adelaide and Perth.
“SUPER-RAPID”
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
The powerful “Macson Pumps,
illustrated above, are designed for
pressure pumping, for high eleva-
tion or long distances—splendid
pumps for irrigation work or
general water supply. Pipe sizes,
1 Jin. to 3in. Prices from £l6/10/-
"Super-Rapid” Pumps (centre
illustration) will deliver a big
volume of water, at heads of less
than 100 ft. Stocked from fin. to
sin. sizes, capacities ranging from
800 to 25,000 gallons per hour.
Larger sizes can also be supplied.
A
ninflvilfcfl*
iMU
Prices start from £3/10/-.
Other popular power pumps made by us are: The ‘ Rotex, Rotary Force Pumps, tle
"Triton” Plunger Pump; and the “Globe” lin. pump, specially designed for economica
handling of skim milk and other liquids.
The “Acme” 2in. pump, illustrated at the right, is a splendid pump for all-round use
on the land. The “Ajax,” is similar. Both pumps are powerful, easy to operate
and low-priced.
Semi-rotary hand pumps, drum-pumping and fire-fighting outfits, hydraulic rams
and spray pumps are all stocked in a wide range, SEND FOR A CATALOG
Fully illustrated catalogues,
leaflets, etc., are always
available. Send for a copy
of our 350-page General
Catalogue.
“ACME”
Double-acting
HAND
PUMP
A
,\
I'! A
W i
THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
FOUNDED 1886.
The M.L.C. maintains its Ordinary Branch bonus rates for 1937
Examples:—Whole-of-life policy, age 25 at entry: Reversionary Bonus for first year £2/5/- per cent.,
increasing to £4/2/- per cent, for the 30th year.
Endowment Assurance policy, maturing at age 60, age 25 at entry: Reversionary Bonus for first year
at £l/18/- per cent., increasing to £3/2/- per cent, for the 30th year.
REASONS WHY THESE RESULTS ARE POSSIBLE:
The Company’s powerful reserves and the assets cover-
ing them are unsurpassed for strength in Australia. 75
per cent, of the assets of over £2 7,000,000 consist of
Government, Municipal and Local Body Loans and
Loans on Policies.
The mortality experienced, owing to careful selection of
risks, is extraordinarily light.
The Company is managed efficiently, and always has
been. Last year the expense rate was 10 per cent, of
the total income.
The rate of interest earned on the funds and reserves
is nearly 5 per cent. The rate assumed in valuing the
Company’s liabilities is 2| per cent., leaving a margin
of nearly 2 -4 per cent, for profit.
The M.L.C. Building, cnr. Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


vJ^
S rONEV-LONDON
Conquering Distance and conquering Time, the wings of Intercontinental
save many weeks on the once long journey to London.
London within the comfortable span of eight interesting, pleasant
these weeks clipped off the journey mean more time for pleasure . . .
for social life . . . for roaming the English countryside . . . for important
business, too.
Exceptionally low fares to London compare more than favourably with
first-class rates for the usual mode of travel.
When you plan your visit, travel <s via Intercontinental” and spend the
extra time in London.
The fare, Sydney-London, £lBO (Australian currency), includes night
stops at best hotels, meals and tips en route, proving in actual figures
an inexpensive mode of travel.
INTERCONTINENTAL AIRWAYS
(Combined Netherlands Indies’ and Dutch Lines) K.N.1.L.M.-K.L.M.
Managing Agents for Australia and New Zealand
K. P. M. LINE
Royal Packet Navigation Co. Ltd.
(N. V. Koninklijke Paketvaart Maatschappij Incorporated in the Netherlands)
PAKETVAART HOUSE, 255 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY- A G E N T S ALL STATES
other members of this party, but it seems certain, at
was not ne s rl J y so s ? od / team as that
which he had antagonised during his first attempt.
“The parties that accompanied Leichhardt,” says
the Rev. W. B. Clarke, “were perhaps little capable
of shifting for themselves in case of any accident
to their leader. The second-in-command, a brother-in-
law of Leichhardt, came from Germany to join him
before starting, and he told me, when I asked him
what his qualifications for the journey were, that he
had been at sea, and had suffered shipwrecks, and
was, therefore, well able to endure hardships. I do
not know what his other qualifications were.”
-i-trc „ a *- i ™ ,
y expedition left McPhersons station on the
£iHKiv- ™
£ £sHHF"=?
in Simpson’s Desert. Search party aftef search°parity
has sought their remains for almost a century.
Except for some marked trees—one found by A. C.
Gregory on the Barcoo in 1858 has strong claims to
be regarded as genuine—nothing has been discovered
that could throw any real light on their fate.
An old Bulletin contributor, the late Ernest
Favenc, himself an explorer ot no mean repute, has
drawn a convincing picture of what m/g/u have hap-
pened He supposes Leichhardt to have got himself
into the and country south-west of the Roper River.
Long before the last water they carried with them
had been used, their beasts would have all died, left here
and there, wherever they fell. So, too, would the men.
Differences of opinion would have arisen, and some
ing U on. iaV Some n woulcMiave persisted 1 in^changing L the
direction they were following, and, led by some mad,
?ock n or S bus l hrwould have ,' oTto
die alone. Their baggage would have been abandoned,
and the men, one by one, would have shared the same
fate. Into such waterless and barren regions the blacks
winds “u“ o fil , es P «sd'?ands“™s Wh Sil
would soon have been effaced.’ g b
, , , , _. ~ _ j ,
, , ere eno doubt . tha * Leichhardt be-
! leVed h ™self divinely commissioned to open up un-
no^. n Australia. But there is every sort of doubt as
h ‘ s fitness for the i ob > and 11 is hkely that
bad he not managed to lose himself so tragically and
bewilderingly we would have heard little enough of
bim - The mysterious disappearance, the long and
futile surmisings as to his end have preserved his
memory. He became more famous by getting lost than
he would have by crossing Australia from east to west.
He has become the Great Australian Mystery.
'
John McDouall Stuart.
Q EVENTY-FIVE years ago, a worn-out, sick and
X weary man, of whose constitution years of
strenuous exploring in Central Australia had
taken toll, sailed from this country for England,
where he was to die three years afterwards. His name
will always rank high in the story of Australian dis-
covery, and what he did was little less than what the
great leader under whom he had served his apprentice-
ship as an explorer—Charles Sturt—had himself ac-
complished. John McDouall Stuart was the first man
to return with an expedition which had crossed the
continent from south to north.
. . „... .
A native or hiteshire, he emigrated in 1838 to
the new colony of South Australia, where for a while
be was a member °f lbe Government survey staff.
Later on he practised as a surveyor on his own ac-
and .*!??? * ent . in , f( £ sh f e P- f arming. It was
August, 1844, he joined Sturts expedition to Cen-
tral Australia as cartographer.
The party followed the Murray and the Darling
to the neighborhood of Lake Cawndilla, explored the
Barrier Ranges from end to end, and was shut in near
Mount Poole in the Grev Range, during a fierce
ht F ’ torr i d an d weary months, despairing
rw-stricken they sat helpless in a dugout
,• , , . , cons t rU cted as a shelter from the
overpovver ; ng sun and it was not until July, 1845, that
the ir half-vear of’torture was brought to an end.
y
I T NDAUNTED by the hardships he had endured
with Sturt, Stuart made repeated expeditions in
the neighborhood of Lake Torrens, looking for pas-
toral lands. He was financed in these efforts by the
private generosity of Messrs. W. Finke and J. Chambers.
hrjdras 2K
ZTo^nTXVr
Sh ° U,d attCmPt % °
His employers equipped him liberally, and he set
out m command of a strong and well-found party.
On April 16, 1860, he sighted a remarkable sandstone
monolith, which he named Chambers Pillar after one
0 f his backers. A little over a fortnight later he found
by observation that he was camped in the centre of
Australia, and named the highest point in the neigh-
borhood Central Mount Sturt—changed afterwards by
the Governor of South Australia to “Stuart.” From
this point he pushed on northward, but was finally
forced hv the hnstilitv of the natives shortness of
loiceu oy me. nosiuity or tne natives, snonness or
provisions and the weakness of his party to turn back
to Adelaide.
The South Australian Government voted £2500 to
equip another expedition, and, with a dozen men and
forty-nine horses he set out from Chambers Creek
station on New Years Day, 1861. On this occasion
it was the impenetrable scrub and want of water,
rather than the blacks, that forced him
to turn back after reaching a point
about 200 miles from the northern coast.
But the Government still had faith in
him, and he was again sent off on an-
other expedition within a month of his
return to Adelaide.
The Burke and Wills expedition from
Victoria had already started, and it be-
came a contest between them and Stuart
as to who should be the first to cross
the continent. The Victorian party had
the shortest distance to travel to their
objective on the Gulf of Carpentaria,
and had the advantage of an earlier start
—they won the race, but Death cheated
them of the award of the prize.
By avoiding the route he had found
impossible during earlier expeditions,
Stuart reached with little trouble the well-
watered regions within the influence of
the tropical rainfall. A huge territory
through which he passed he described
as some of the finest pastoral country he
had ever seen. He reached Newcastle
Waters on April 14, 1862, and, after
prolonged investigation of the country
ahead, succeeded in breaking through
the scrub past Daly Waters to the Strang-
ways River. Down that watercourse to
the Roper, along the Roper to the Cham-
bers, up the Chambers across a fine table-
land to the headwaters of the Adelaide
River he forced his way, and on July 17
came into the coastal country. A week
later he reached the sea at Chambers Bay,
a little to the east of the mouth of the
Adelaide River.
Stuart has left a record of the occasion
in his journal, now in the Mitchell
Library at Sydney. It bears the date of
“Friday, 25th July, Charles Creek, Van
Diemen Gulf.”
“I now had an open space cleared, and,
selecting one of the tallest trees, stripped
it of its lower branches, and on its high-
est branch fixed my flag, the Union Jack,
with my name sewn in the centre of it.
When this was completed the party gave
three cheers, and Mr. Kekwick then ad-
dressed me, congratulating me on having
completed this great and important
undertaking, to which I replied. Mr.
Waterhouse also spoke a few words on
the same subject, and we: concluded with
three cheers for the Queen and three for
the Prince of Wales. At one foot south
from the foot of the tree is buried, about
eight inches below the ground, an airtight
tin case, in which is a paper with the
following notice:
“ ‘South Australian Great Northern
Exploring Expedition.
“ ‘The exploring party, under the com-
mand of John McDouall Stuart, arrived
at this point on the 25th day of July, 1862,
having crossed the entire continent of
Australia from the Southern to the Indian
Ocean, passing through the centre.
They left the City of Adelaide on the
26th day of October, 1861, and the most
northern station of the colony on the
21st day of January, 1862. To commem-
orate this happy event, they have raised


tttt W*—
,0.000 fa A
The Great Lakes—a five-link
chain of fresh-water oceans in the heart
of the nation. Ten thousand lakes in the
State of Minnesota alone! Great Salt Lake,
in which no swimmer can sink and
Crater Lake, cupped in one of Oregon’s
dead volcano-tops. Lake Mead, made
by Boulder Dam, and the Lake of the
Ozarks—the two largest artificial lakes in
the world. Tulainyo, over 12,000 feet high,
and the Salton Sea, below sea level, both
in California! From lovely Tahoe in the
High Sierra to the wild, mid-forest lakes
of Maine, exquisite bodies of water, large
and small, make America a scenic, sport-
ing wonderland with an unmeasured di-
versity of other interests for the traveler.
From Pacific to Atlantic, from Mexico to
Canada, a great interlocking system of
railways reduces travel to superb simplic-
ity. Trains are luxuriously comfortable,
with ultra-modern Streamliners achieving
new heights of smooth speed and colorful
design. Service is stressed to the utmost;
train-staffs include ladies’ maid, valet and
barber; diversions, including games and
radio, are handy at your wish. Sleep is
cradled in a wide variety of Pullman
accommodations; artistic diners serve
delicious meals; sociability joins with
sightseeing in wide-windowed club and
observation cars. 3000 miles in as little as
60 hours or less with one change of cars,
and perfect weather maintained by mod-
ern air-conditioning! Fares are low; you
may stop over at will without extra cost.
On your coming trip to England, sail to
California in 18 days in the luxury of one
of the Matson-Oceanic liners, Mariposa
or Monterey. See the fascinating ports of
Auckland, Suva, Pago Pago and Honolulu.
Select your transcontinental route from
Los Angeles or San Francisco, and your
favorite ship across the Atlantic the
shortest, most convenient, and most in-
spiring journey of your life!
Complete information in our illustrated booklet, ”England Across America,” upon request.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL AND INFORMATION BUREAU
12 Bridge Street • Sydney • Phone B-7981-3
(Incorporated in U.S.A*
Limited Liability)
12R-1A
this flag bearing his name. All well, God save the
Queen! ’
“(Here follow the signatures of myself and party.)”
THE return home was almost a disaster. The horses
knocked up, the natives were troublesome, and
Stuart himself for a time was afflicted with blindness
and paralysis. He partially recovered before Adelaide
was reached, but his health was ruined. He received
a grant of 1000 square miles of grazing country and
£3OOO in cash from the grateful South Australian
Government, and had well earned his reward.
By his efforts a vast territory was opened up for
occupation, and as a direct result of them the
Imperial Government rewarded South Australian
enterprise by attaching the Northern Territory to the
colony, enlarging the boundaries of South Australia
by more than 520,000 square miles. In ten years’
time the overland telegraph line stretched across the
country which Stuart had opened up, and telegraphic
communication with England had been established.
Burke and Wills.
HERE are a half-dozen or so events
f in Australian history which have
v,v echoed round the world. The
remarkable voyage in an open boat
of William and Mary Bryant from
Sydney to Timor in 1791 ; Edward Ham-
mond Hargraves’s washing of a panful of
earth on the bank of Summerhill Creek
in New South Wales to find gold ; the
picturesque and cunning lying of Arthur
Orton, the Tichborne Claimant, begin-
ning at Wagga (N.S.W.); Ned Kelly’s
last stand at Glenrowan (Vic.) in 1880;
the events of April 25,. 1915, in the Galli-
poli Peninsula, and the tale of Burke and
Wills —their successful journey from
Melbourne to the Gulf of Carpentaria
and tragic finish near Cooper’s Creek in
1861 —were stories told to a listening and
wondering world.
Though McDouall Stuart did ever
so much more than did Burke and Wills
it is safe to prophesy that when his name
is remembered only among geographers
theirs will still possess the pitiful fame
earned by death. On the same day that
Stuart returned in triumph to Adelaide,
after crossing and recrossing the conti-
nent, the bodies of Robert O’Hara Burke
and W. J. Wills were brought into Mel-
bourne from their lonely graves in the
Cooper’s Creek country.
While the South Australian explorer
was making his second unsuccessful ex-
pedition over the Mac Donnell Ranges at
the beginning of 1861, Burke and Wills
stood on the shores of the Gulf and the
pathetic tragedy of their fatal journey
back was yet to come. All the years that
have gone by since then have not been
sufficient to decide whose fault the
disaster was.
J N 1857 the Philosophical Institute of
1 Victoria —now the Royal Society—
took the notion of subsidising a journey
across the continent that would be wholly
worthy of the best-known and richest
province of Australia. The first idea was
for a crossing from east to west along
the Tropic of Capricorn, but this was
altered in favor of an expedition from the
Darling River to Cooper’s Creek with the
aim of establishing a base there from
which explorations to the north and west
might be carried out.
The expedition was equipped regard-
less of expense, and provided with camels,
specially imported from India, in order
to get over the difficulties of the stretches
of desert. An ex-army man, and the then
Superintendent of Police in Victoria, R.
O Hara Burke, was put in command of
the party, with G. J. Landells, the camel
overseer, as lieutenant, and W. J. Wills, a
young Englishman, as surveyor and
astronomer. There were also a surgeon
and an artist, Jen other white men, and
three Indian camel-drivers.
Burke’s orders were to make a depot
on Cooper’s Creek, and from there to
explore the country lying between Leich-
hardt’s route in 1844-45, Sturt’s of the
same years, and that of A. C. Gregory
in 1858.
Burke was an Irishman, game and
courageous to a degree ; he was not a
bushman. He fell out with Landells over
the way he managed the camels. Landells
resigned, Wills became second-in-com-
mand, and William Wright, manager of
a Darling River station, was appointed
by the leader to take Landells’s place.
When the party reached Menindie,
Burke left the main body to rest there,
telling Wright to bring it on slowly, while
he and Wills, with five men and an Indian
camel-driver, went on to Cooper’s Creek.
Burke waited there about four weeks, getting more
and more impatient over the delay, then again split
his small party and, leaving William Brahe with four
men to wait for Wright’s arrival on December 16,
1861, he and Wills, with two men, Gray and King,
pushed out into the wilderness.
O OUR months afterwards —on April 21, 1862 —
* his small command being badly afflicted with
scurvy, Brahe buried a cache of provisions at the foot
of a tree, carving the letters DIG on its trunk, and at
ten o’clock in the morning started back to hunt up
Wright and his lagging followers. Between seven and
eight that evening, in the last stages of exhaustion,
and leading two almost knocked-up camels, Burke,
Wills and King stumbled into the deserted camp.
In the morning Wills suggested following in
Brahe’s tracks, but was overruled by Burke, who
decided to try to make the cattle stations in South
Australia, about 150 miles to the south-west. They
left a letter buried at the foot of the tree, and after
spelling for nearly a week set off down Cooper’s
Creek, fatally but hopefully marching away from any
chance of rescue. It was the beginning of a tragic end.
Brahe found Wright in trouble on the Bulloo,
and returned with him to the Cooper’s Creek depot.
They did not notice that the ground had been dug up
to plant Burke’s letter, and left the provisions they
thought were there in the hole. Four of Wright’s
party were dead, and the other rotten with scurvy,
so Brahe made his way as quickly as possible back
to Melbourne, and begged the committee to send out
an urgent relief expedition.
Already there was much anxiety in Victoria.
A. W. Howitt had started out with a search party at
the end of June. He met Brahe on the Loddon, and
the news he had from him took him with all speed to
Cooper’s Creek. Then McKinlay started out from
Adelaide, Landsborough came down from the Gulf
country, and Walker rode westward from Rockhamp-
ton.
Surely Burke would come across one of the
quartet, it was thought? Even if he had gone north-
west towards the Victoria River, he had a very good
chance of meeting McDouall Stuart.
Howitt and Brahe got to the DIG depot on Sep-
tember 13, and a couple of days later found the feeble


wreck of a white man with a tribe of aboriginals
lower down the creek. It was King, and, when he
had recovered a little, he led the rescue party to a
blacks’ camp, where the corpse of Wills lay in a
gunyah of dead leaves.
L/TNG told the story. When they left Brahe at
* Cooper’s Creek, Burke and his companions went
towards Eyre’s Creek, but after crossing part of Sturt’s
Stony Desert struck the Diamantina, well-watered at
the time, which led them for a considerable distance
in a nor’-easterly direction. Then they made north-
wards through grassy country with plenty of water,
until the Cloncurry took them to the Flinders, and
so to the Gulf of Carpentaria.
They had made the journey to the Gulf in a little
over six weeks, but already they were short of food,
and the camels were a constant anxiety. After they
turned back the going became worse and worse.
Heavy rain made the soil boggy and affected their
health. Gray helped himself secretly to some of the
W.J. WILLS.
scanty supplies, and the angry Burke rewarded him
with “the father and mother” of a hiding. A couple
of weeks afterwards Gray became seriously ill, and
presently died. They stopped for a day to bury him,
which brief delay cost them their safety, for they
missed Brahe at the depot only by about nine hours.
King’s story made it abundantly evident that
Burke might have avoided many troubles by seeking
native guides—the want of them increased his difficul-
ties both on the outward and return journeys, and
was disastrous on his retreat towards South Australia.
Sometimes the blacks gave them a little fish, but
for most of the time they fed on nardoo, which only
filled their weakened stomachs and afforded no real
nourishment. Gradually they declined in strength.
Wills was first to go down. He insisted that the others
should go on and try to find natives who would give
them fish. In two more days Burke was dead,
and when King feebly returned to where they had left
Wills he found him dead also. A day or two after-
wards King came across some blacks, and shot them
a few crows. They fed and maintained him until he
was found by Howitt.
"THE relief parties covered great distances. Walker
* turned north when he came to the Barcoo, and
struck the upper waters of the Flinders, and so
reached the Gulf, returning by way of the eastern
slopes of the Flinders watershed to the Burdekin.
Landsborough travelled across to the Herbert River
from the Albert. Coming back, he reached the
Flinders, and went south-east across the Thomson and
Barcoo to the Warrego, which he followed down to
the Darling, and thence went on to Melbourne.
McKinlay found an unknown white man’s grave
in the desert to the northward of Cooper’s Creek.
Then he heard some rumor from the blacks of the
killing of several white men, and made northward to
the Diamantina. He followed Burke’s tracks nearly
all the way to the Gulf, and, turning eastward, got
back to civilisation among the newly taken up cattle-
runs on the Burdekin.
When Howitt returned to Melbourne with the
bodies of Burke and Wills at the beginning of 1863 it
was realised that the heroic days of Australian ex-
ploration had come to an end. Little more remained
to be done on the eastern side of the continent and in
the interior. It was only in the west that further in-
vestigations were necessary. The tragedy of Cooper’s
Creek marked the close of an era in Australian
exploration.
Gregory and Forrest.
SEVERAL expeditions were sent out to attempt
solve the mystery of Leichhardt’s disappear-
ance ; among them those of two men who had
already made their names known for explora-
tion work in Western Australia —Augustus Charles
Gregory and John Forrest.
Gregory was first in the field. He had arrived in
Perth in the ship Lotus from England in 1829, and
with his two brothers entered the Westralian survey
office. In 1845 the three of them journeyed inland as
far as the Blackwood River, and in the following year
they again made a trip into the interior. Salt lakes
barred their progress, so they turned westward till
they met the Irvine, which was followed to its mouth,
where they discovered the first Westralian coal.
A little later Gregory was chosen as leader of
an expedition further north to the Gascoyne and
Murchison rivers, financed by Westralian farmers who
were keen to find new grazing lands. He had now
established himself as an explorer, and was given
command of an expedition, equipped by the Imperial
Government, to go in search of Leichhardt.
HTHE party left Sydney in the barque Monarch and
1 a small schooner, the Tom Tough, on July 18,
1855. Gregory had with him his brother, H.C., and
Dr. Mueller as botanist. At Brisbane 200 sheep and 50
horses were taken on board, and the vessels sailed for
Point Pearce at the mouth of the Victoria River on
the northern boundary of West Australia and the
Northern Territory.
It was a voyage of 2000 miles. They arrived on
September 24, the stores and equipment were trans-
ferred to the Tom Tough and the Monarch returned
to Sydney.
Gregory, Mueller and seven men rode overland
to the upper waters of the Victoria, leaving the Tom
Tough to work her way up the river and land the
sheep. The party went by way of the Macadam
Range, found and named by Stokes, to the Fitz-
maurice River. On October 10 news came from
the schooner that she was ashore eight miles
down the river. Some of the stores had been
damaged, and most of the sheep had died. The
animals had been kept penned in the holds, and of
the 200 shipped at Brisbane only 26 survived. It
meant that the expedition had barely enough food
supplies for the task before it.
On November 24 it was decided that the two
Gregorys, Mueller and Wilson would follow the river
on horseback. This was done as far south as latitude
16| degrees. Many tributaries were found flowing
into the Victoria from fine open plains, well-grassed
and level forest country, and on January 23, 1856,
another and larger party of eight men and thirty
horses were brought up to form a depot.
Gregory, with Mueller, Wilson and one man, then
went south. They found the course of the Victoria
much sooner than was expected, and crossed its water-
shed before searching to the westward and then mak-
ing back to the camp.
A RRANGEMENTS were now made for the home-
**vvard journey to Brisbane by a route which skirted
the Gulf of Carpentaria. The Tom Tough sailed for
Timor to obtain more stores, with orders to meet the
land party at the mouth of the Albert River. The
land party, consisting of Gregory and his brother,
Mueller, Elsey and three men, set off on its long trek
on June 21, 1856.
On the way a camp was found which appeared
to have been used by white men. The frameworks
were remaining of what had been substantial huts.
However, there were no marked trees or other signs
to indicate that Leichhardt had been there, and
Gregory went on down the Roper, then across a ridge
to the headwaters of Limmen Bight River. He skirted
the Gulf south of the line taken by Leichhardt’s first
expedition, crossing the rivers at points higher up than
those at which Leichhardt had named the streams.
He reached the rendezvous at the Albert, which he
found was really the mouth of the Nicholson.
So far he had had a good trip. There was no
sign of the schooner, and he decided to push on, at
the risk of running low in provisions. A letter for
the schooner party was left at the foot of a marked
tree, and on September 3 Gregory started on his
homeward march of nearly 4000 miles. The decision
was typical of Gregory’s calm, well-balanced cour-
age.
They made good time, following the Gilbert
River and then the Burdekin to the Suttor, and finally
connecting with Mitchell’s track. On November 22
Gregory reached the station of Fitz and Connor on
the Dawson, in northern Queensland, and the long trek
was over.
In sixteen months the expedition had covered
5000 miles by land and 2000 by sea, and, though it
started well-equipped, unavoidable accidents made
it as short of supplies as any which had been in the
heart of Australia.
REGORY’S second trip in search of Leichhardt
was inspired by the report of one Garbut,
a prisoner in Sydney on Cockatoo Island, who de-
clared that he had met Leichhardt in the interior, where
he was held captive by convicts who had taken native
wives and settled there. Though the story was given
little credence, the New South Wales Government
equipped Gregory with a small party to investigate it.
With his brother and seven bushmen he again
started on January 12, 1858, for the Victoria River.
This time he found definite traces of Leichhardt’s
presence there at some time. Poles which had been cut
by axes lay about, and on a tree a large “L” was cut
deeply into the wood. But these were evidently the
last traces left by the vanished explorer. Gregory
abandoned the search and made his homeward trip
one of exploration.
Following the Victoria River to its source he
found that in its higher waters it was the well-known
Cooper’s Creek. Eventually he reached Adelaide after
crossing Lake Torrens, which had barred the progress
of other explorers, by an isthmus.
This trip marked the finish of Gregory’s explora-
tion work. He was commissioned in the next year
to mark the southern Queensland boundary, and
afterwards was given the appointment as Surveyor-
General of the new colony. He was nominated foi
the Queensland Legislative Council in 1882, and re-
mained a member through into the beginning of the
next century, almost until his death in 1905.
Gregory’s journeyings were perhaps more wide-
.spread than those of any other explorer. He
opened up new country in each of the four larger
colonies, and he travelled east and west over the whole
continent.
I OHN FORREST, who carried on the search for
the missing Prussian scientist after Gregory had
left it off, was Westralian-born —at Bunbury on
August 22, 1847, the year previous to Leichhardt’s
disappearance.
Forrest became interested in the problem of
Leichhardt in 1869, on hearing a story told by natives
to Captain Roe, Surveyor-General in West Australia.
They claimed that two white men and a native boy
had been killed in a locality in which it was likely
that Leichhardt might have been, and Forrest, then
only 22, was soon persuaded to investigate it. , He
took with him three white men and two natives.
The party left Perth on April 15, 1869, and
reached Yarraging, the last station to the eastward, on
April 26. Forrest covered 2000 miles in 113 days,
but found nothing to substantiate the story.
Dr. Mueller, who had been with Gregory’s first
expeditions and had never given up hope of finding
his countryman, then suggested another search in a
different direction, working from the upper Murchi-
son to the Gulf of Carpentaria. Not only could
Forrest look for Leichhardt, Mueller argued, but he
would also find new country. But Governor Weld, of
West Australia, had at the same time asked Forrest
to lead an expedition across to Adelaide, on the route
taken by Eyre in 1841.
Forrest agreed to make this journey, taking his
brother Alexander with him. He profited by the
experience of Eyre and had a vessel meet them at
Esperance Bay and Eucla with fresh food supplies.
The party left Perth on March 30, 1870. Eyre had
taken a year on the journey—Forrest did it in five
months.
At Esperance Bay they found the schooner had
not arrived. She came in five days later. More than
half their journey was done, but there still remained
the long, dry stretch to Fowler’s Bay, which was
reached after desperate efforts on July 27. Forrest
wrote that all were well, but the horses could only
hobble along. They had been without water for 90
hours. On better stages they recovered ; Port Augusta
was reached without mishap, and on August 28 the
party arrived at Adelaide.
EI2ORREST had got a taste of exploring and could
1 not rest. On July 12, 1872, he wrote to Malcolm
Fraser, Surveyor-General, suggesting a trip eastward
as far as the overland telegraph line, following the
Murchison to its source and thence to Champion Bay,
Settlers offered to provide the horses and the public
subscribed £2OO. After two years’ consideration of the
plan the Government agreed, and on March 18, 1874,
Forrest set off with provisions for eight months.
It took them ten days to reach Champion Bay,
where they started eastward. All the country
passed through was good pastoral land, but of
the country from the head of the Murchison to the
129th meridian, the boundary of the colony, Forrest
ROBERT O’HARA BURKE.
wrote that he did not think it could ever be settled.
Beltana was reached on October 18, Jamestown on
the 28th of that month and Adelaide a few days later.
The continent was being gradually settled now,
and Forrest did no more exploring, preferring to turn
his attention to the now more exciting game of poli-
tics. Though “Big John” is remembered rather
as statesman than explorer, it should not be forgotten
entirely that in his early years he helped to open to
settlement much of the colony which he devoted later
years to developing and governing.
(Continued on page 42.)


70//
5
/
Nl
/
/
*
0 0 0
\ W /
#
5*
*
/
»
£
V
%
IB
/
\
ALL
f
p*Z
'&&%&/ ydedttafi/6J jfoi
Ja4e
Wolfed Schnapps with iced water or cordials, as preferred, makes a distinctively
delightful Christmas stimulant. Toasts to health! Yes, and for health it is—in
character and constituents Wolfe’s Schnapps is essentially and above all a health
drink. The gentle cleansing diuretic action of Wolfe’s Schnapps is of untold
benefit to women as well as men ... no other liquor possesses the potent medicinal
virtues that distinguish Schnapps, and no other liquor can be truthfully described
as “just the same as Schnapps.” This Christmastide—and all the year round—make
it a rule to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps for your health’s sake.
To make sure of obtaining genuine, pure aromatic Schiedam Schnapps, always ask for
• • •
OLFES
OMATIC
CHEQAM
PS
W. 5.145.8.
WOLFE’S
cSzfmdam
SCHNAPPS
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN


dsf
Put C.O.R Plus in your tank and seek out
the most difficult traffic—the steepest hills.
Travel at speed over varying road surfaces.
Note the improvement in performance—the
speedy pick-up—the sweet running. Im-
proved Plus never fails to demonstrate its
superiority because it has been specially
developed to meet today's driving condi-
tions. There is a grade to suit your car.
SUPER PLUS ETHYL the premium grade the
ideal fuel for modern cars and trucks. Super Plus
is the only full Ethyl petrol that also contains benzol
—and ofEers you exceptionally high anti-knock quality
together with amazing mileage.
PLUS BENZOL—is the outstanding motor spirit in
the standard grade field. Petrol-benzol blends are
sold in other markets at premium rates but Plus
Benzol is available in Australia at the standard
grade price.
Remember only C.O.R Petrols contain Benzol!
!i*
liU ¥
a
<e
if
*
52
«
m
n
BRITISH
AUSTRALIAN
PETROLS
EXTRA POWER EXTRA MILEAGE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Incorporated in Victoria with branches at MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, PERTH cm/27/SP
Harry Best, Pioneer.
wmm TT HE list of the “official” explorers of Queensland
/ includes John Oxley, Allan Cunningham,
Leichhardt, Mitchell, Kennedy, Gregory, Burke
and Wills —but there is no nominal roll at all
of many men who went out there from the older
settled parts of Australia and opened up the country.
Hardy and adventurous, they were the true pioneers
of the pastoral era.
Such a one was the young man a sketch of whose
life is hung here at the end of this gallery of explorers.
Henry W. Best was born in Parramatta on October
14, 1838, and educated at The King’s School in the
’fifties. He rode out to Queensland’s most
remote settlement —Bowen Downs station —in the
early ’sixties with a large mob of breeding cattle, and
went exploring from there northward to the Gulf of
Carpentaria.
Later he married Emma Woodhouse, of the his-
toric Mount Gilead family of Appin, and settled on
his father’s property, Tangmangaroo (a Crown grant
of the ’thirties), in the Yass district. Some time after-
wards he went south with his wife and family to
Wallendbeen station, owned by the venerable pioneer
pastoralist Alexander Mackay, M.L.A., father of
Donald Mackay, the present aerial explorer of Central
Australia. Best spent some ten years there before
returning to Parramatta, owing to ill health. He died in
June, 1887, and is buried in the family allotment in
old St. John’s Churchyard.
Such is a short outline of the forty-nine years of
life of the man whose yellowed, old, parchment-bound
field-book lies open before the writer at the moment.
It contains several interesting enclosures, one a
letter addressed to “Mrs. N. Payten, Jun., George-
street, Parramatta, N.5.W.,” and dated “Bowen Downs,
Landsborough River, Queensland, 7th July, 1863,”
giving an account of the misfortunes which overtook
Harry Best just three quarters of a century ago.
“Madam,” it reads —
“At your brother’s suggestion I have selected
your address in the very disagreeable duty
(on my part) of breaking to the friends of
Harry Best the unwelcome intelligence of his
present severe illness (suffering from rheuma-
tism).
"About two months ago he was selected as
one trustworthy and good to accompany myself
and a friend on an expedition considerably to
the north of this, in fact into the Carpentaria
country, which we wished to inspect. After
being out 10 or 12 days, he began to show
serious symptoms of his malady, so much as
to require to be assisted on and off his horse,
getting, however, a little better and worse alter-
nately for a time. We all with himself hoped
he would every day recover, instead of which,
however, he grew worse, until at the beginning
of last month we were caught in a mighty storm
of rain in terrific country, which killed our
horses and left all my party on foot and ration-
less at a distance of some hundreds of miles
from the nearest station.
“Under these circumstances, after saving
alive a few horses, which had suffered too much
to do anything for a considerable time, at last
it was determined to walk in here for help,
wnich with God’s goodness was accomplished
the day before yesterday in very great extremity
and privation. Since which l have reorganised
a parly and a fresh outfit at enormous cost, and,
God willing, proceed the day after to-morrow
to fetch him in.
“He quite approved of my arrangements
before / left him. He was in tolerable spirits
under the dreadful circumstances, and l left
him fully armed and instructed how to deport
himself till my return, which he appeared
to have every confidence would be without loss
of time.
“I have thought it prudent to adopt this step
through you, in case of his absolute death, that
his friends may receive the shock with less dis-
may. 1 must say I do not feel the least appre-
hensive myself, but we must leave these things
to the Ruler of all. Assure his people that all
will be done possible for him without stint of
means or energy on my part.—l remain, your
obt. sert., Arthur Bloxham.”
Hr HE battered old diary reveals Harry Best’s re-
actions to his dreadful loneliness when his mates
departed into the bush and left him there in the
wilderness. _ .
Following an account of his journey to Queens-
land, and very difficult to make out in its pencilled
scrawl, is the entry: “Started for Gulf of Carpentaria
on 28th day of April, 1863. Our course is 60 miles
west of Landsborough’s over unexplored country.
There follows a note concerning the beginning
of his long spell of solitude, sick and knocked up,
in that lonely wilderness: “Mr. Bloxham, Birkett and
Hill left me on Saturday, 20th June, 1863—Started on
Saturday.” The next few pages are occupied with a
sort of ticked-off record of the days of the week, with
an occasional note besides.
On the 23rd of June, for instance, is—“ Numbers
of white cockatoos came flying about me for a long
time.” On the 28th—“A large brown snake came
crawling into my miamia. I was sitting with my back
to him. Luckily I heard him and frightened him off.
On Sunday, July 5, there is an entry of three words
—“Supposed to return,” evidently referring to his
expectancy of the rescue party.
On Saturday, July 11, he notes “3 weeks” Then
against Friday, the 17th: “Intend to start on 17 if
no relief comes, and the Almighty God spares me my
health and strength and my horses which I hope and
trust He will—and guide me in safety to a civilised
place.”
On July 18 he wrote —“Intend starting in the
morning.” Then six days are ticked off with what is
apparently a rough record of the distances he made —
sometimes only two or three miles in the day. By
Friday, July 24, he reckons he made eighty miles.
His handwriting has become very shaky. Underneath
this is the final happy ending in a firm and assured
hand.
“Met Mr. Bloxham, Howell and Ken [no doubt
the brother whom Bloxham mentions in his letter to
Mrs. Payten in Parramatta] coming to relieve me on
Flinders River—H. W. Best.”
The terrible month of almost unrealisable soli-
tude had come to an end, and he was safe.
The next few pages are taken up with —“This is
what Mr. Bloxham left me when he was going away,”
the letter referred to by Bloxham when
writing to Mrs. Payten. It gives him his
present position _ and very-carefully-
thought-out instructions as to what Best
should do in attempting to save himself if
Bloxham should not return in 15 to 18
days. There is too much of it to print in
full, but one passage may be quoted:
“If approached by the Blacks at once
show them the state of your lameness,
and make them understand that your
white companions have gone southward
but to return for you as well as you can.
They never injure cripples or seldom de-
formed people. I should make my state
quite as bad as possible to them, and you
will find them give you what assistance
they can. If by any chance they take you
down the valley you must cut your initials
abundantly in the bark of the trees here
and there in most conspicuous places, and
stick up sticks in triangles about here and
there. I will bring a Blackfellow back
with me, if possible.”
Further on are some notes “to Mr.
Wm. Best, Prospect.” “(Sunday) June
21st, 1863. I am left here in a valley be-
tween Flinders River and Dutton River
by myself. This place bears a wild aspect.
Mr. Bloxham, Mr. I. Birkett and Mr. A.
Hill have started with a hope of a return
to me in 15 to 18 days with horses, as all
our horses are dead or nearly so. Those
that are not are good for nothing. The
distance to Buchanan’s is 240 miles, which
is very dangerous for three men on foot,
the Blacks are so numerous.”
Further on still: “I have now been
living on horseflesh and pigweed for the
last fortnight (merely existing). I am sure
if any of you could see me you would
not know me.... My dear Sister Sophie’s
advice to me if I had taken it before I
started, Oh, would have been worth
worlds (Don’t go, Harry—don’t go).”
Then: “I have now been here this is
24 days and no relief, but I intend to
start in three days more and try if I can
find a station. I am nearly starved.... A.
Bloxham, I. Birkett, A. Hill are the three
men I came out with. You can see them
if any of them got to Sydney.”
On a page by itself is this pitiful,
pathetic moan to God:
“God be merciful help us and bless
us —
“May the Lord have mercy on me
and the three that have left me and guide
them safely to their journey’s end and all
safely back to me. O Lord, hear that
prayer and watch over them with Thy
hand of mercy—Amen.”
Then relief did come, and Harry
Best lived to find a grave among his kin
in old St. John’s Churchyard in Parra-
matta. Could he have had the slightest
idea, writing painfully in this old diary
out there in the Gulf country all those
years ago, that he was going to be a con-
tributor to the Christmas Number of
The Bulletin in 1938?


*
1


FROM FOOCAOW WITH TEA
BY Harferf Galfrie
“But there must be a ship there!” the second
groaned out almost incoherently. “There
must be! My Gawd!" he went on excitedly.
“You must have heard that, sir! She’s just
struck three bells.”
DRAWING BY G. K. TOWNSHEND.
CAPTAIN JONES was a sturdy little man, not
usually reticent, but there was one subject on
which he was tender. Even a jocular reference
to the spirits of departed sailormen returning
to their haunts as sea-birds failed to arouse an answer-
ing smile. It served to recall too acutely his command
of the S.S. Kunarta.
She was a flush-deck tramp of 5100 tons. During
her stay at Adelaide the second mate was landed sick ;
and another, Hollands by name, was signed on in his
stead. He appeared to be a tough, unimaginative
fellow, but capable, and in a quiet manner soon
proved his ability at handling a crew. Discharge was
completed in Melbourne, where a part cargo of general
was taken in, to be topped up in Sydney for several
ports along the China coast.
Captain Jones rather took to Hollands, who had
little to say, stuck to his job and rarely left the ship—
until final discharge in Foochow. Here was picked
up a full cargo of Eastern products, chiefly tea.
Directly loading began Hollands seemed a different
man. He took to fraternising with the Chinese tally-
clerks as he had not done in any other port. He
went ashore a couple of nights, couldn’t be found on
occasions during the day, and an unusual grin settled
on his face ; sometimes he found it necessary to steady
himself when the master happened along.
Returning aboard one morning the captain paused
at the head of the gangway and eyed him critically
as he retreated towards No. 1 hatch. He decided to
bring the second up with a round turn, but the waiting
agent delayed him for a few minutes, and in the mean-
time Hollands had disappeared.
Hollands was adrift for several days, and the
captain was angry enough to leave him on the beach
without further ado ; but he arrived in a rickshaw and
rolled along the quay with an escort of jabbering,
admiring Chinese just as cargo was finished.
“I couldn’t seem to help it, sir,” he said in maudlin
explanation. “I’ve'never been here before, yet some-
how the damn’ place seems familiar and the girls like
old friends.”
It transpired that he had been carousing in one
of the most notorious parts of the town somewhat
in the manner of the old-time reckless “Jack ashore.”
“You’re lucky to be alive!” snapped the captain.
“Knocking around in those joints!” But Hollands
grinned sheepishly.
When they put to sea he worked with amazing
energy. Of his own volition he began to overhaul and
smarten everything. And he shook the crew up in a
way they had never before experienced.
DLUGGING down the coast the Kunarta ran into
‘ a bit of weather —the tail-end of a typhoon—
and the old ship, with little deadweight below, was
pretty lively and wet. But there was no ease-up with
Hollands. He dropped into a vocabulary which called
to mind the shellbacks of past days. The captain too had
served his time in sail, and it did his heart good to see
his second straighten up any steamboat men inclined
to slacken.
With a strong sou’-westerly she was dipping into
it one morning with heavy sprays sweeping the fore-
deck, and Hollands seemed to be chafing at the hold-
up of some job he had in hand. The captain noticed
him run for’ard and look to the lashings on the heavy
spars carried there, then dart back between seas to
the alleyway. In a moment he stepped up to the
bridge, touched his cap and consulted the captain,
after which he stood aside steadying himself and
gazing with a faraway look at the smother ahead.
Something about his attitude drew the captain’s
attention, and he watched Hollands’s eyes gradually
raise to take in the masthead and travel slowly down
again to the deck, while a puzzled expression wrinkled
his face.
“What’s up, mister?” the captain asked curiously.
The reply was just loud enough to be audible
above the noise of wind and seas: “Have you ever
felt, that you’ve been in exactly the same place
under exactly similar circumstances at some time
past?”
“Well, I suppose you’ve been on a bridge often
enough in a touch of weather!” the captain flung
back at him a little impatiently.
“No, it’s not that feeling, sir,” the second re-
joined reflectively. “Something quite different —as
though in another life.” He glanced at his listener
with an embarrassed grin.
The captain noticed a grin on the face of the
helmsman too, so he beckoned Hollands aside. “Have
you been drinking again, mister?” he asked bluntly,
looking him square in the eyes. “If so, you’d better
cut it out right now!”
“No, sir ; not a drop,” the other assured him. “I
had a peg or two first day out to square myself up,
nothing since. But 1 had the same peculiar feeling
in Foochow.”
“I don’t wonder at it!” said the captain duly.
“You lived about three lives there.”
The helmsman, in trying to cock an ear, let her
head fall away, and a sea smacked the starboard bow
driving the spray bridge-high, while the unexpected
lurch sent the captain and Hollands side-stepping
apart. By the time the master had dealt with the man
in a seamanlike manner, Hollands had gone down.
A S they made farther south the seas moderated,
and Hollands went on with his spit-and-polish to
his heart’s content. He even seemed disgusted that
steel decks didn’t need holystone. But all the time
he appeared to have something on his mind. The
chief engineer had cause to complain of his ordering
the firemen about, so the captain sent for Hollands,
who promptly apologised.
“I sometimes forget I’m aboard a steamboat,
sir,” he said by way of further explanation, and he
reddened like a boy.
“You’ve been in ’em long enough to know better!”
the captain reprimanded.
“That’s so, sir,” he said, twisting the cap in his
hands round and round. “But this trip’s to hell an’
gone different somehow.”
His manner rattled the captain. “What the hell’s,
on your mind?” he snapped. “Spit it out and have
done with it!”
“It’s what I told you before, sir,” he said self-
consciously. “I look aloft and get a devil of a shock
to see there’s no spars an’ no canvas.”
“Where the blazes do y’ expect to find ’em?” the
captain demanded.
“I don’t know, sir,” he said dismally. “But half
the time it seems they should be there —like on a wind-
jammer.”
“Half the time you’re wool-gathering!” the cap-
tain told him gruffy. “That’s the trouble! Just take
a pull to yourself, my lad! ”
Hollands did appear to pull himself together a
bit after that. Not that any of his moods ever inter-
fered with his work ; and as they drew nearer the
line the old ship began to look mighty spick-and-span.
He stepped up to the bridge one evening with an
apologetic grin, and as he seemed quite his old self
again the captain was rather glad of his company ;
so they paced the bridge together for a while.
It had been uncomfortably hot and sultry all
day, and now that darkness had fallen the atmosphere
seemed more than ever heavy and oppressive. There
was no moon, and the dun clouds which had hidden
the sun all day obscured the stars and seemed to
bear down like a great stilling blanket. The faint
gleam of the steaming lights, exposing the foam of
the wash, served only to accentuate the pitch-black-
ness elsewhere, and the seething swish of the displaced
seas, the monotonous beat of the engines, and an occa-
sional clang from the engine-room seemed the only
sounds on earth.
The steward came up with coffee, but, with clothes
all clammy and sticking, the captain hunted him off
to fetch something from nearer the Poles. Then he
offered the second mate a drink. Hollands returned
his glass to the tray and stepped over to port to peer
out into the darkness. Presently he began to sing
quietly as though to himself:
Oh, fare you well, my bonny young girls—
hurrah ! —sing fare you well! Oh, fare
you well! I wish you well —hurrah !
There was a rollicking swing to his voice, but
he stopped abruptly and took a turn back.
“Sorry, sir!” he said. “But I’ve never heard that
chanty before on the wireless.”
“Wireless!” repeated the captain. “What wire-
less?”
“Why, in the saloon, sir!” he replied.
“What are you talking about?” said the captain.
“There’s no wireless from there. I told the steward
to shut the ciamned thing off ; it got on my nerves.”
‘“THE binnacle light shone full on the mate’s face.
* He stared at the captain in amazement, his face
turned a sickly white and his lower jaw sagged.
“Didn’t you hear it, sir?” he almost pleaded. “It
was as clear as day. Now I come to think of it, I
could hear the creak of blocks, as though men were
hauling to it.” His voice trailed away into a kind of
awed silence. “Christ, sir!” he added, stepping quickly
over to port and leaning over the rail in an effort
to pierce the gloom,. “Now I know it was coming
from away abeam.”
The look of him impressed the captain. He
stepped over too and strained ears and eyes for
minutes, then he swore at Hollands profoundly and
told him to get to hell out of it.
“But there must be a ship there!” the second
groaned out almost incoherently. “There must be!
My Gawd!” he went on excitedly. “You must have
heard that, sir! She’s just struck three bells.” The
words were no sooner out of his mouth than three bells
sounded from the main deck.
Captain Jones began to feel uncomfortably aware
that there was something more than hallucination to
account for the behavior of Hollands, and he was
taking no chances. He rang down for half-speed and
questioned the helmsman. He hailed the lookout,
o Continued on page 46.)


TIME, PLEASE!


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the*
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one Way via "The Cape ” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAYILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
1
A
MM
Christmas Means Presents —
and Presents Mean SLIPPERS
503 B
Especially when they are soft kid Slippers in smart color combinations.
This Slipper is made in full and half sizes in
Brown Kid, dark brown piping 27/6
Blue Kid, red piping 27/6
Plain Blue Kid 27/6
And Red Kid Vamp and Patent Back 27/6
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.’’
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY.’’
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Hfcq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.: M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ■; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. 8. FORRES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
called the watch, but not another soul had heard any-
thing unusual. It seemed that they thought he was
mad.
In the meantime Hollands was useless. He stood
like a man dazed, his eyes roving aloft and down
again. The captain heard him mutter hoarsely: “My
Gawd! Where’s the fo’c’sle-head? Where’s the
fores’l, the tops’ls, the t’gallants’ls, the royal?” His
voice rose higher and higher in a kind of subdued
frenzy as his mind worked aloft. Then he laughed.
“They’re there, I know,” he muttered. “But I can’t
see ’em.”
The captain was convinced now that the man
was clean off his head. And suddenly he felt sorry
lor him: such a fine stamp of man, every inch a
seaman 1
Here, mister! ” he said with gruff kindness, tak-
ing him by the arm and leading him to the companion-
ladder. Brace up, man! Go down and tell the
steward to give you a stiff whisky, then turn in,”
Hollands obeyed mechanically. The steward
reported afterwards that he drank a full glass of neat
whisky at a gulp, but instead of going to his cabin
he strode along the alleyway, banged-to the engine-
"Be patient, darling, and I'll try to get you one of these bones with some nice meat on it.”
, .
oors, a nd !scared the steward out of his wits
, y This is not a bloody steamboat, any-
ow ' / en he w^ nc /ered off for ard. The captain
reca e having noticed a man standing right up in
the eyes of her a while later, but he took it to be
another of the crew, otherwise he would have ordered
him below.
after four bells a westerly came whipping
' up out of the darkness, howling through the stan-
chions about the bridge, and sending little cupfuls
of spray lashing at the face of the man at the wheel.
The captain ordered the course altered slightly to
meet it, but he was quite unprepared for the sudden-
ness with which it broke into gale force.
The first huge sea heaved up out of the black-
ness alongside, and went roaring across the ’tween-
decks to crash overside again, and the full fury of
the storm was on them. He shouted to the helmsman
to take her round further, but the man merely gaped
in the direction of the tumult. As the captain darted
across to take the wheel Irom him a wire stay some-
where tor’ard parted with a scream as of pain and
swept whining past his shoulder, nearly knocking him
off his teet, until it wrapped securely round a post at
the side of the bridge.
He got the wheel at last and bucketed her round,
fighting with his ship against the seas which seemed
to come pitching up at her now, one after the other
with scarcely a space between, tearing at her abeam,
pushing against her, forcing her as if in wilful
endeavor determined she should not escape. Again
and again she crawled up sideways as if seeking the
easiest grade across the mountains of water, and again
and again she rushed sliding and slipping down the
other side into the trough, till at last he got her round
and her head went pitching down while with stern up
she shuddered and rattled as the screw raced free.
The wind smacked the forepart of the bridge now,
deluging it with flying sheets of spray so that it was
impossible to see anything ahead, and it began to rain
heavily, steadily, with such force almost that the fol-
lowing wind couldn’t carry it, and as if it would beat
the seas flat. They did quiet almost as suddenly as
they had boiled up, and though it seemed the ship
had been struggling for hours the storm could not
have lasted much more than thirty minutes in all.
Everything movable had gone by the board, and
there was considerable damage, though mostly of a
minor nature. And water had invaded the living
quarters. As soon as he conveniently could, the cap-
tain called for a muster of the crew. At first there
were four men missing, but three were found more or
less injured. Of Hollands there was no trace.
Actually some hope was held until daylight per-
mitted of a thorough search. But the poor fellow
had gone. And there seemed hardly a doubt that he
had known his time was up.
The remainder of the voyage was uneventful.
But the chain of peculiar incidents leading up to the
fate of Hollands so impressed the captain that on
arrival in London he searched the records of marine
mishaps thereabouts. Although it had not occurred
to him at the time, the Kunarta was actually following
the course of the old-time tea clippers.
And he found that seventy years before one of
them—the Theadaulus —had left Foochow homeward-
bound. Her log showed that when in the very lati-
tude and longitude of the mishap to the Kunarta
she had been overtaken by a violent and sudden
storm. Some of the crew had been injured: one, the
second mate, was lost.
Coincidence perhaps! But Captain Jones often
wonders if he himself was one-time master of the
Theadaulus. He makes no attempt to find what
became of him. Nor is he at all eager for reincarna-
tion in any shape or form.
Burning Before Spring.
With flames that rose, like cardinals redly gowned,
In long canonicals of yellow smoke,
You gained confession from the cold-breathed ground
•And found that long-hid tomb of which it spoke.
Burn off the white plumes, scrape away the mud,
And we shall find the golden bones of spring,
And, through a skeleton off leaf and bud,
See almond-trees stretch out a rosy wing
In flight across the oak-trees to the pines,
Or southward to the fingered willow-trees.
And no one knows to whom their flowers belong;
They sit and smile upon so many knees.
The pussy willows slowly claw their boughs;
Through its tattered coat the white manuka shows;
The pines have lit gold candles on their horns,
And the ginger lily like a red mouth glows.
Now our dark hearth, the kettle’s drowsy song,
Half-anguish and half-ecstasy, forget.
Make me a garland from the almond-tree
And hang it with a tousled spider net.
And let us fold our winter loves away
That rose up from old seasons caught in books,
From meditative rain and showery spray,
And the dear shadows of your downbent looks.
1 take your hand that opens like a flower
To catch the bee of mine, and shuts again,
And then 1 lean outward from your deep breast’s power
To watch the leaves of spring slant down like rain.
Come, let us be happy, though these rings of may,
These necklets of pimpernel and pins of thorns,
Fade to an echo running far away
From the guilty and desirous summer horns.
For 1 must be happy, though fade fast our flowers,
Though in the sky a rainbow arm appears,
And on it bow two heads that look like ours,
Weeping above us with a storm of tears.
MAORILAND.
EVE LANGLEY.


The “BILLABONG”
THE MILL OF THE BUSH
We started manufacturing in 1859. There’s a long tradition of satisfied
country needs and bush irrigation behind all our pumps and mills.
The times and the situation produced the pump.
“Billabong” points are
• Modem to the Minute
• Self Oiling
• Self Speed Regulating
• Ball Bearing
• Enclosed Weatherproof
Gears
• Newest Type of Wheel
• Rigid Iron Tower
• Moderate Price
E=gs
)
w
'/
mil
lUrfUJt
n»
iiPIPIP
I*.
832SSi*«--
>*,
**
as
:siwi
* 'T-
We’ll tell you all about it in our illustrated Booklet.
Write for it or for information on IRRIGATION
or BUILDING SUPPLIES.
We wish all our readers the Compliments of the Season.
Phone M 650 S (18 Lines). Late Shopping, Friday, 8.30 p.m.
JOHN DANt\§s M)
PROPRIETARY LTD. (Incorporated in Victoria)
324-330 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
391-403 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M23SI.
It
SOPHISTICATION IN THE AIR
58*
A
fi
ts
$
K
iMft
Delectable meals served at tables in true restaurant style
are a feature of travel in the Empire flying-boats. Spacious
cabins, a library, a buffet, a promenade deck, steward
service—all combine to give you “Shipboard comfort at
Airways speed.’'
Services leave Sydney thrice weekly for Brisbane,
Townsville, Darwin, Java, Singapore and thence to
London.
14 Market Strret.
MELBOURNE.
Tel.: M 1234.
(INC. IN QUEENSLAND)
Shell House, Carrington Strret,
SYDNEY.
Tel.: 8W4481.
43 Creek Street,
BRISBANE.
Tel.: 83484.
DIRTY PAPER
BY GAVIN S. CASEY.
WHEN the State schools have done all they can
for you on the ’fields, and you’ve got some sort
of a job, there are an ordinary night school,
teaching commercial subjects, and a School
of Mines, where there are evening as well as day
lectures and courses in various sorts of engineering.
When our mob got more or less broken up,
through its members all reaching the age of fourteen,
Plugger and I found that our parents expected us
to do something to better ourselves, so we enrolled
at the School of Mines. We were more interested in
girls and smoking and motor-cars, but, of course,
we did what was expected, and we reckoned that the
School of Mines wouldn’t be so bad.
The mob had broken up, like mobs do, into pairs
of cobbers, and Plugger and I were pretty close. We
never learned much at the School of Mines, but for a
couple of years we attended lectures together, and we
didn’t mind swaggering along the street of an evening
with T-squares and books under our arms, looking
like young fellows who would be mine-managers or
something pretty grand later on. It was all nice and
easy after State school, too. If you felt tired you just
drowsed over your desk, and didn’t worry to take
notes. If you felt badly tiled or interested in some-
thing else you could even miss lectures altogether,
and no one asked any awkward questions. Most of
those who were really trying to learn much were
older men who’d been bumped about enough to make
them wake up.
There was an evening on which Plugger and I
were getting along the street with our T-squares and
sets, with two hours of “mechanical drawing” ahead,
when Plugger wanted to skip the lecture and I wanted
to go. I had a knack with a pencil, and, though it
inclined more to freehand, I didn’t mind mechanical
drawing.
“Aw, what about skippin’ it?” Plugger said. “We
could go up to the park. We might get hold of a
couple o’ tarts.”
“More likely drive ourselves dotty with nothing
to do,” I said. “It’ll be better at school.”
O VER the entrance at the School of Mines they had
a powerful globe, and on summer nights there
used to be a million insects playing around it, and
before lectures about a hundred boys and young men
crunching about on the red gravel underneath. When
we arrived they were all there, and all the windows
were lit up and the corridors were busy with lecturers
and students dashing about. We went straight through
to the room where our drawing-boards were, and we
“Wipe that grin off y'r face , Private 'Iggins!”
had our sheets of cartridge-paper pinned down and
our pencils sharpened long before Cyclops, the
teacher, arrived.
“How’s your hexagon nut goin’?” asked Plugger,
and came Across and looked over my shoulder
at the drawing I’d nearly finished. He grunted.
“Cyclops’ll make you do that again,” he said. “Look
at them lines!”
“What’s wrong with ’em?” I asked, pretty indig-
nantly. “They look like threads. Your damn’ things
look like ladders up a shaft, or somethin’.”
I was very keen on my drawing of the hexagon
nut, and on the threads in particular. I’d slaved away
at those threads, shading and moulding them until
l thought they looked like live metal. And I thought
that Plugger was only jealous and peeved because I’d
wanted to come to school, anyway.
“They’re all right,” I said again. “They’re good
threads.”
“So you reckon!” said Plugger. “Wait till
Cyclops sees ’em.”
Then Cyclops arrived. He ambled like a weary
old elephant up to his platform and settled down in
his chair as if he never intended to move again. All
of us in the class stopped yapping, and most of us
started to work. But Plugger had given me new doubts
.of myself and my hexagon nut and Cyclops. T didn’t
feel like drawing any more. I sat on the high stool
and glared at the lecturer.
It was a pretty warm night, and old Cyclops
didn’t show any inclination to come down among the
class. He was breathing heavily and sweating gently,
and his one eye seemed to be watching nothing in
particular. He had a halo of flying-ants streaming
around the light bulb above his bald, shiny head, and
he looked to be worrying about some private matter
of his own. He was a silly, harmless old cow, and the
kids in his classes sometimes used to give him a pretty
rough hour or so.
I wondered how a quiet old codger like Cyclops
had ever managed to lose an eye. With his black.
(Continued on page 49.)


s • i
{ ' r' JT
•; A. s
; .'<. .V' - '
„ <t-A> - • • At*?
mm
i
.
*£B
' "1,
•S*
<
■T'f
mm
«-'•
i <-
UM
■■/»■
I
Ell
vVi/X-V >''
•■-. .
* S&.Uvt
- Y&J K
i-„ r
pm, ;.
ip-r
& t*
rat
i>.‘ ’ ■ '■ U :■ l
t-r' •• ■;c .• . ' ••.'
' ;ir t
I. '*' .<.;•
> ■ v <*-
f ' ti
, - V** • -. ? **
> v. ' * ■
I V# . - V- -
'' . „ *»%A**- ' .
&•. •-
»S
fr* ft.
m
•*: ■
■
r
m
m
■■■
«*5
'V t£f. 'I
afr.7
r / //..#;■
Prf ' .
J v- :
>
v
W.
*ev
y %
; »
*• -• A
V V''
ssr'-f
V f *
v ■■ m
mj
/
v:-
>••'; {'
• : . >:
V t'
•' m • '»
Vi *v *. V
. n:. s;
® VC ; #;f ,;
;VA • > > h
- ' ••'<:
V ■ " ! V V ■ ~ : ■ fU
•*-.v ,
: rfl ■ ft' 1
>y% /. *
g ,/C
Santa Claus has
unharnessed his
steeds . . . he’s back
from the cots of
the slumbering
children.
But there’s still
left a gift in that
haversack of his a gift to grown-ups of
health, of purity, of sparkling good spirits.
C 5
8
.\**Av»yy.*Av
$&?\\w$SSBSJJ»>
.V-'
msm
7/i


HAMPION 35
/i>r ACCELERATION
Strong hot sparks are necessary
for smooth and lively engine
performance. Is your car jerky
and sluggish ? See how greatly
it improves with a set of
new Champions! They
save enough fuel to pay
forthemselves.
An Empire Produet—
mode in Windsor, Canada
s&JI
(p
sjv&jl
Vyj;w/j
\\ V -./a
. '::
y-m
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
■
for
SPORTS
PLEASURE
HEALTH
EDUCATION.
HFDLIN •?:
Sin
ttgts
W*
VIENNA
sib;
sjw
PARIS
• If*
'-V;
Mi
MARSEILLES
• —►•TOULON
NICE •
• NO VISAS
• NO MONEY FORMALITIES
O PRICES TO SUIT EVERY POCKET
• REDUCTIONS IN RAILWAY FARES UP TO «S%
tiu
to
jo
MORE/
Farther Information can be
CONSULATE OF SWITZERLAND
422 Collins Street. Melbourne
obtained at Shipping Companies ond Travel Agencies or at the
CONSULATE GENERAL OF SWITZERLAND SWISS CONSULAR AGENCY
117 Pitt Street. Sydney 127 Eagle Street. BH.bane
stubbly jowl and the patch over one optic, he looked
like a fat pirate or something, though his head looked
highly-polished and respectable. I was discouraged
and resentful, and I wished I’d taken Plugger’s advice
and not come to mechanical drawing at all. Then I
noticed that Cyclops’s one eye was closed.
“Hey, Plugger!” I whispered. “Look at
old Cyclops.”
“Cripes!” said Plugger when he looked
up. “The old cow’s asleep!”
“Yair,” I said pretty bitterly. “That’s
all the interest he takes in us. Asleep, the
old cow!”
“Hey, Stinker!” Plugger hissed to the
chap on the other side of him. “Have a
look at Cyclops.”
The news travelled around the room like
wildfire. All work stopped straightway.
“Spare me days!” said someone. “Great
jobs them blokes have got all right! They
want us to work, though.”
“What about all sneakin’ out and letting
him find the room empty when he wakes up?”
said somebody else.
“We’d get copped in the passage,” said
Plugger. “We couldn’t leave all the boards
and things out anyway, and it would make
too much noise to put ’em away.”
I started to draw a picture of old
Cyclops asleep, with the flying-ants overhead
and everything. 1 brought the ants a good
deal closer for effect, and I mounted one
upside down on the lecturer’s nose, peering into his
open mouth. Because I was pretty disgusted and reck-
less, I did the drawing on my sheet of cartridge paper,
right alongside the hexagon nut.
It wasn’t often that I managed to get a real like-
ness of anyone. This time, though, I fluked it, almost
without effort. It came out beautifully like him,
rolls of fat, bald head, disreputable eyepatch and sag-
ging, tired mouth.
“Give us a look,” hissed the class. “Aw, pass
the flaming thing around.”
“Can’t,” I said. “I’d have to unpin me paper.”
“Cripes, it’s good!” said Plugger. “You’ve got
him to a T.”
They all started to leave their places and come
around behind me. I pretty thoroughly enjoyed the
moment. But it didn’t last long.
Plugger decided that they’d all see the drawing
better if my T-square was out of the way, so he
lifted it to put it on his own board. He got it half-
way over the heads of the mob without doing any
worse than crack one chap over the ear, but then it
got away altogether. About a dozen pairs of hands
grabbed at it, but it hit the floor. It hit the floor
with a crash that seemed to shake the whole build-
ing, a crash that made everyone jump for his proper
place. It made our hearts thump badly, and, of
course, it made Cyclops’s eye open straightway.
YCLOPS looked startled, and then ashamed. He
should have gone for the class, but he wasn’t very
successful in handling boys, so he just blinked his eye
guiltily and said: “Goodness gracious! I must have
dropped off. Inexcusable! Inexcusable! Wouldn’t
like it if you chaps took forty winks, would I?”
Then' he grinned in an amiable, conciliatory and
pretty sheepish manner. He seemed to be begging
the class, with his lonely eye, to understand, and not
to make things any more unpleasant than they were.
But the class was merely relieved. It knew very well
what would have happened if almost any one of the
other lecturers had been in Cyclops’s place, but it
“D’yer really think I ought t' , Charlie?”
had a pretty shrewd idea that old Cyclops was harm-
less. It tittered, loudly and lightheartedly, and the
little bit of hope flickered out of the lecturer’s eye. He
became embarrassed.
“Now, now!” he said unimpressively. “Go on
with your work. I’ll be around in a minute to have
a look at it.”
Pencils began to move and feet to scrape again.
But everyone worked as he wished. I was the only
one who had any real cause to be frightened. On
my paper the lines that made up the comical shape
of Cyclops were so black and deep that they would
never be completely erased, and I could not kid
myself that even old Cyclops would take such a thing
lying down. They wouldn’t punish me at the School
of Mines, of course. They’d just kick me out. What
I was frightened of was the disappointment I would
have to face at home. I was sweating with fright
over that, and I didn’t want to hurt poor old Cyclops’s
feelings either.
He lumbered down from his eminence, and
I worked furiously with the rubber. There was
still an outline—an outline that looked even more
obscene than it had in its original heavy black —when
I heard Cyclops breathing behind me. I shivered
and gave myself up for lost. I felt pretty mean, as
well as scared stiff. There was a silence that seemed
to last a quarter of an hour before he sooke.
“Freehand drawing!” he grunted then. “Those
threads are no good. Rather clever perhaps, but no
good. Mechanical drawings are for men to make
things from, not to look at. The rest of it is careless.”
I could hardly believe my ears. Though I was
practically fifteen, I felt a foolish impulse to cry
with relief and a sudden gratitude to old Cyclops.
“Yes, sir,” I stammered.
“Keep your pencil sharp,” said Cyclops. “If
you’ve got to sharpen it twenty times a night do so.”
“Yes, sir,” I said.
“Now, clean it all off and do it again,” he ordered.
“Don’t try to make it look like a nut. Be content to
make it a map of a nut. See what I mean?”
“Yes, sir,” I said.
“And clean up your paper,” said Cyclops as he
started to lumber away. “It’s very dirty. Very dirty,
my boy.”
Cyclops ambled back to his platform, and I’d
always thought that in rear view, seen moving, he
looked more like a baggy old woman than at any
other time. But now, when I saw several of the class
grinning at him, I wanted to punch their noses. I
thought that when we got outside I’d persuade
Plugger into being pro-Cyclops along with me,
and how the pair of us would deal with any of the
younger kids who got too rough and cheeky with
old Cvclops in future.


Jhrtit
The lot of them, by the look on Wallace Beery and Judy
Garland, apparently sighting an earlier version of a place
that might be called Brimstone; Mickey Mouse and
Popeye not much perturbed thereat, but Edna May
Oliver very much so; Groucho Marx not oversurprised;
George Wallace considering the outlook onkus;
Alfalfa (“Our Gang”) ready for anything;
Gary Cooper a bit uncertain of his reception;
Dopey less worried than Donald Duck
(who has a better view) ; Bert (“Dad”)
Bailey taking it worse than wallabies
in the corn-patch; Connie Bennett
completely blase; Jack Buchanan
finding the whiff of it awfullay
sulphurous, what!; and
George Formby cheering
Myrna Loy with
something from “I
See Ice.”
v&.
\u-
r*o
9
%
//
a
mi
J
)
s
/
I
3
r
25
/■
nJ
rc
a
sC
7
J b
O
&
&
J
m
h
s
N
\
Wm
S»
\v^
*
XT


AT S 3 SHE DEFIES
RHEUMATISM
After Suffering Acute Pain
for Years.
Rheumatism first attacked this old lady in
1931, and gradually spread from her arms to
all parts of her body She was almost helpless.
Then she started to take Kruschen Salts, and
now she sends the following letter in her own
handwriting:
“I have suffered from rheumatism since 1931.
At first I felt acute pain in both arms. I
could not sleep for pain. It grew worse, and
gradually crept down to the tips of my fingers.
Next it reached my knees and ankles, which
made me quite helpless for a long period. A
friend recommended me to take Kruschen Salts.
I find they do me more good than any other
medicine, liniment, ointment, etc. This is my
own writing, though 1 am in my 84th year.”
—(Mrs.) H.
The pains and stiffness of rheumatism are
caused by deposits of needle-pointed uric acid
crystals in the muscles and joints. Kruschen
Salts stimulate your liver and kidneys
to healthy, regular action, and assist them tp
get rid of the excess uric acid which is the
cause of all your suffering.
VAUXHALL 14-THE IDEAL SIZED CAR IS
ECONOMICAL TOO Give* web lOmn-a
m
m
NOT TOO BIG
-yet with its 101 -inch wheel-
base and roomy interior, the
Saloon seats five with ease
-six when you need it.
NOT TOO SMALL
-yet amazingly economical.
In the recent official R.A.C.V.
Test over a 229 mile course
at a speed averaging 33 miles
an hour, the ‘l4’ registered
36-27 m.p.g.
...
has
that
a space that
f„ ! L i!> y irf°d«»«n2"great
cats must pas^bV- can p „ k where
“" v r n T,“ ££ s a«*i -* '* he,c 1 “* '
a big enough space.
The Vauxhall ‘l4’ is really two cars in one. It
has roominess for five passengers (six if
necessary)— yet it’s not a big car. And it has
exceptional economy (36.27 m.p.g. in a recent
R.A.C.V. test) — yet it’s not a ‘midget/
It’s the ‘Happy Medium’ in cars. It was
designed to come midway between the big car
and the small car and then engineered on lines
which Vauxhall investigations had proved
would satisfy the big majority of motorists.
Vauxhall was guided in building the ‘Happy
Medium’ ‘l4’ by this fact: For 90% OF ITS
MILEAGE THE AVERAGE CAR DOESN’T
CARRY ANY REAR SEAT PASSENGERS.
This means that if you do, say, 10,000 miles
a year, you’re using only half your car for
9,000 miles. This is a real problem— and
neither the big car nor the small car solves it
as completely as the ‘l4
For instance, in a big car you’re hauling
around extra unused weight with a powerful
engine for 9 miles out of 10 and you’re paying
for a 50% bigger petrol consumption than
you would for a ‘l4.’ On the other hand, the
small car is not built to give you the comfort
you’ve been used to or the extra passenger
space you sometimes need; neither has it the
power nor the top gear performance to satisfy
you, and in ‘miles per gallon’ it has little, if
any, advantage over the ‘l4.’
Remember that to-day you have more than
the bare choice between a big car and a small
car . . . Vauxhall ‘l4’ offers you the ‘Happy
Medium’ ... a ‘family-sized’ economy saloon
that will satisfy your pride and your pocket
more than any other low priced car.
dsf
SAFETY GLASS—
(Left) A sheet of
Armourplate Safety
Glass (fitted to the
windscreen and side
windows of the ‘l4’)
easily bore two men
whose combined
weight exceeded 21
stone. If broken the
glass would just
crumble into crystals.
MULTI - ADJUST-
ABLE SEAT (Right)
—Not just a sliding
seat. Notice that the
dotted line shows how
the seat is raised as it
comes forward. This
double adjustment,
both in distance from
the dash and height
from the floor, means
comfortable driving
for tall or short people.
dsf
CAR RADIO Tl\e modern motorist has an
AIR CHIEF installed In his car, to derive maximum
enjoyment from motoring. A model specially designed for
Vauxhall is included in the. range at prices from Eighteen
Guineas. Ask for a demonstration. You will be pleased with
the excellent radio receptibn given by ‘AIR CHIEF.’
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
VAUXHALL 14
AS ENGLISH AS ENGLAND
MM
FAMILY-SIZED. R °°^' lN lvcraS«
Most oi „r people
owner ha. only e „ e occasion*
in his car. ct , ns or evenings
such as week-en tha nkful tot
out when he is cxtra people.
passenger room *, you co m-
T h c Vauxhall » fivC __even
fortable room ‘"*Jd It » s a
six when y°« size d car with / an
S«ph.nal engine economy.
INDEPENDENT
SPRINGING (Right)
—The Vauxhall ‘l4’
has a comfort miles
ahead of any conven-
tionally-sprung car. The
soft, independent front
springs absorb all the
shock—there is no un-
comfortable pitching
and tossing and no
nerve-racking side sway.
ds
wwiwwsww
THE ENGINE (Left)—The
14 h.p. Vauxhall Engine has
six cylinders and overhead
valves for performance, and a
new 6-phase carburettor for
economy. Petrol consumption
in the recent R.A.C.V. 229-mile
Test worked out at 36.27 m.p.g.
It’s the ‘Happy Medium’ in
motor engineering, that gives
small car economy with big car
performance.
Consult your local Authorised Vauxhall Dealer
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers all over Australia.
X357g
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (.except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, noi to members of the staff personally.
H.E.A.: Not up; study types appearing....
M. 1.8.: Don’t reply to pars.; it’d need a special
supplement P.C.D.: No, we won’t “adopt
your brain-child”... J.H.: Nearly; try it else-
where . . 8.F.: Things like that should be kept
under lock and key R.C.S.: “Sacrifice just
another burnt offering G.C.: Advise you not
to inflict “Kindness” on anyone else P.T.S.:
Outlook gloomy, but keep trying V.R.W.:
Shoo! C.L.P.: You’re not very conversant
with your subject M.8.M.: Won’t have that
damsel cavorting round these premises
S.A.P.: Room for a good deal of improvement.
H.T.V.: .You’ve been to the pictures again,
.. ..G.S.C.: It’s better to climb down from
that perch than to fall off it R.8.D.: Write
away to your heart’s content, we don’t mind,
....H.S.C.: “Two-No-Trumps” down badly
L.L.B.: it would make a big difference if
yo “ w ro *c about something interesting
h Ihree years would be a fair estimate.
—i i„J. : Plflle RN.W.: Your “literary
scalpel needs sharpening.... K.E.R.: “‘Oh,
when will my knight come riding and rescue
from this cruel fate?’ she sobbed.”
We re not going to be the mug S.L.R.: Is
that a ll you have to say?... .8.M.R.: Not bad
until the finish spoils it... .P.S.D.: There’s a
yarn there, but it’s badly told N.D.C.:
Has been repeated in golf clubs for the last
r • year i‘ ‘ N: “ I ’ ve already lost two
iriends through this story. You’d lose many
more if it were published 8.F.L.: Call for
the body.... J.T.8.: It should be home for
Christmas... D.W.: “The Literary Lion” only
friXer ’ ‘ ‘ W b - Ve so ™‘ hin g
. . .P.S.B.V The' only “gripping”Thinf about
that was the unused stamp H.D : No use
for American racketeers J.D.N.: “I have
several more like these if they wouldn’t waste
your time.” They would G.C.S.: An ex-
ploded myth H.C.D., L.R. P.S N JF and
F.G.S.: Missed E.E.W.: Yes, but’the red-
gum sounds like a weeping willow PMW-
Almost felt sorry for the gossip after you’d
finished with her R.H.: Soft orb is sweep-
ing on 8.J.R.: Labored F.J B ■ A
starter, anyhow L.M.R.: Ending spoilt it
even as vers libre E.D.C • Give them to
“Joycey, dear”... .0.1.: It might make a song,
but it’s too slight for us JF • Thin
G.H.: It ambles along; that’s ali MR -’
Idea’s there, but execution is weak.. PTF-
“A Fond Farewell” gets it A.D : Refrain’s
tame.... W.J.S.: Somebody might act on that
advice A.8.C.: Try a daily J.W.: Ever
read Kipling on smugglers’ ponies?.
A.P.8.: Thanks for suggestion J.F.: it’s
been written of every mine that ever was...
T.E.McC.: Don’t know what we’d do with-
out you V.A.: And “Our Best Christmas
Wishes” to you S.D.: It’s believing that “it
is very easy to do” that makes them con-
fused... .J.N.: “Would you kindly give that
which is below your healthiest consideration?”
That which was below, your “inner you,”
looked very healthy... .R.W.G.: “Away!
Away! From city’s fate!” What’s stopping
you? N.G.: (1) Try a women’s paper. (2)
Let him read... .R.McM.: Want the poem
good, not the “moral” J.L.H.: No life in
that tune... .E.S.: Call again J.S.: Ham-
mock is empty.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.S.: Gent, built on the lines of a praying
mantis was consigned to the w.p.b G.H.:
“Valuable!” It’s no more so than a used
tram ticket... .B.B.: Seen those gaolbirds
many times before W.M.: You’re a bit
late in the day with a cartoon about Tommy
White’s resignation A.N.: Quite promising
for a first-year student R. 8.: Not a place-
winner among the dozen C.M.C.: It first ap-
peared in an American magazine five years ago
and has been a hot favorite ever since... .T.H.:
Film gag was an old-timer long before the
advent of talkies; others also lack freshness.
... .J.S.: No market for pair of tailor’s dum-
mies and their long-winded conversation
W.D.: The moths had got to it long before
it reached us... .C.L.: Backless-costume joke
might have passed a few seasons back....
P.Q.: When sending caricatures of persons out-
side N.S.W. get somebody known to us to
vouch for likenesses N.M.: You stand no
chance while you’re content to remain a
scratcher H.S.: Might do as a recruiting
poster, but no good as a cartoon E.M.J.:
Tightrope well enough drawn; can’t say the
same for politician walking it. Who is he, by
the way? ... .W.S.: Send your pictorial puzzle
to one of the children’s supplements.


LIMEJUKL
OTHER. CdtOIALS
ADAMS 1 (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- pep day: Breakfast. Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday. 5.45 p.m.)
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M4fiol
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
QUAICAST”
Australian made
MOTOR
MOWER.
fs
16in. cut,
. d
drives as
it cuts.
Price £34/13/-
In Seaport Capital Cities.
Australian made “Qualcast” hand mowers
have captured and now hold the Aus-
tralian market by their efficiency, dura-
bility and cheapness. History is repeat-
ing itself now in regard to the 16in.
“Qualcast” Australian made Motor Mower.
Write for particulars to any leading
Hardware Store or direct to the Manu-
facturers :
QUALCAST (AUST.) PTY., LTD.,
Sunshine Road, West Footseray,
Melbourne, W. 12, Victoria.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926. 1,099,559 12} p.c.= 750,000 349,559 4,880,314
Bank of Western Australia absorbed.
Net reserves taken over, £600,851.. 5,481,165
1927. 1,226,247 12} p.c.= 886,797 339,160 5,820,615
1928. 1,184,943 121 „ „ 936,905 248,038 6,068,653
1929 . 994,825 10 ~ „ 750,000 244,825 0,313,478
1930.. 734,699 9} „ ~ 731,250 3,449 6,316,927
1931.. 565,236 8 „ „ 019,200 6,262.963
1932.. 462,967 6$ „ „ 460,950 2,017 6,264,980
1933.. 439,616 5 „ „ 439,000 616 6,265,590
1934.. 439,739 5 „ „ 439,000 739 6,260,33 j
1935.. 442,660 5 „ „ 439,000 3,660 6,269,995
1936.. 470,454 55,, „ 460,050 9,504 6,279,499
] 937. . 543,242 6 „ „ 626,800 16,442 6,295,941
1938.. 547,835 6 „ „ 526,800 21,035 6,316,970
Creation of a Long-Term Credit Depart-
ment of the Commonwealth Bank isn’t
likely to do the trading banks any harm,
and the Government, heeding public
opinion, now appears to recognise that
many of the recommendations of the
Banking Commission amounted to no
more than meddlesome interference with
a successful system. Indeed, the sound-
ness of the trading banks was one of the
pillars of our strength during the slump,
and experience shows their handling of
the position calls for anything but de-
tailed legal control of credit by the Com-
monwealth Bank, whose prestige alone
should be adequate in this connection.
Still, bank earnings continue to exhibit
a stubbornness long since overcome by
most other traders ; yet the Government
in Maoriland looks upon the private
banks there as rich East Indiamen, and
treats them accordingly. Because of
these and other things, including doubt as
to what the future holds for private bank-
ing in Australia, the market for bank
scrip remains in the doldrums, and it is
difficult to say when it is likely to emerge.
Since the beginning of 1938, the co.’s
£4O shares paid to £20 —the other £2O is
a reserve liability callable only in the
event of liquidation—have fluctuated be-
tween £33 15s. and £29 ss. Last week-end
the figure was £29 145., at which the re-
turn is 4 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. Visibly
the net tangible cover is 345. sd. per
pound of paid capital, or £4 14s. 4d. per
share more than the market price, and
the inner strength is believed to be sub-
stantial. It is thus plain that investors,
who back their opinion with so much of
their resources as they choose to employ,
think the co. isn’t earning a reasonable
return on its funds (capital and reserves
combined).
After making whatever provision was
considered necessary for contingencies,
the call for which increased owing to
dry conditions in many agricultural and
pastoral areas and the fall in export
prices, the board figured net earnings for
the 12 months to September 30 £4593
better at 6.2 p.c. on the £8,780,000 of
share capital, or 3.6 p.c. on capital and
reserves combined. The div. was kept
at 6 p.c. For 80 years to the close of
accounts in 1930 the lowest annual rate
of div. was 9 p.c., paid in 1894.
It is as lenders that the banks render
their best service to the community. Dur-
ing its last term, the Wales increased its
advances by £8,162,553 net, raising them
to 88.5 p.c. of its deposits, of which about
two-thirds is interest-bearing. In 1929
the ratio of advances to deposits was
89.9 p.c., and about 62 p.c. of the
deposits was interest-bearing, and the co.
is doing a much bigger volume of busi-
ness now than then:
1929. 1937. 1938.
Notes .. .. £584.091 £81.416 £81,326
Bills, etc. . . 7,284,445 8,322,177 8,154,482
Deposits .. 66,056,052 95,958,164 100,257,842
Liquids .. 27.047,606 35,636,614 31,449,702
Advances .. 59,427,960 80,577.457 88,740.010
Premises .. 1,450,000 2,900,000 3,150.000
Deposit* .. 373,911 , 382.615
* Statutory deposit with Reserve Bank of N.Z.
Deposits (up £4,299,678) passed the mil-
lion-pound mark for the first time. When
the books closed, liquids (down
£4,186,912) amounted to 28.9 p.c. of
liabilities to the public, and the co. was
holding £7 3s. 9d. of the public’s money
for every pound of its own. It is a
thoroughly sound banking position, but
the co. won’t be able to extend its lending
connections much further without also
adding to its cash or other liquid re-
sources. Failing a lift in export prices,
indications are that the banks will soon
be forced to adopt a more cautious ad-
vance policy, especially in connection
with imports.
As for Maoriland, the Wales’s assets
(£8,798,759) exceeded its liabilities in the
Dominion by £327,983 at the end of
August last —a comparatively safe posi-
tion.
Tooth and Co. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
bept., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 590,134 12} p.c.= 485,622 104,512 740,817
Assets written up, £485,622, and that
amount capitalised .. .. 740,817
1929.. 634,054 12} p.c. =539,860 94,194 835,011
1930.. 686,392 11$ ~,, 632,317 54,075 889,086
1931.. 480,829 8 ~,, 449,648 )
Employees’ Fund, £7OOO J 24,181 913,-67
1932. 467,474 8 p.c. =449,648 ) „
Employees’ Fund, £9OOO 1 8,820 J 22.093
1933.. 482,204 8} p.c. =477,751 ) 010 r
Employees’ Fund, £7OOO ) yiu.oao
1934.. 567,119 9} p.c. =533,957 ) ir „ n 47 7nR
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO ) 28,102 947,708
1935.. 628,699 12} p.c. =702,575* 873,832
1936.. 696,028 10 „„ 589,017 1 10fi 011 97 n 84 ,
To Staff Fund, £lOOO .. j 100 - 011 679,843
1937.. 774,695 10} p.c. =649,179 125,516 1,105,359
1938.. 841,839 11} ~,, 711,005 130,834 1,236,193
* Including special centenary bonus of 6d. per share.
Between them Tooths and Tooheys
share all but a fraction of the beer trade
in N. S. Wales, Tooths taking the lion’s
portion. Over the last half-dozen calen-
dar years the Government Statistician
estimates the consumption of beer, spirits
and wine in the State and expenditure
thereon as follows:
Year — N
Ended Per Head
Dec. ' ’OOO Gallons N Total, Popu-
-31, Beer. Spirits. Wine. £’ooo. lation.
1932.. 18,042 610.4 1271.3 10,620 £4 2 4
1933.. 18,925 617.4 1473.0 10,740 4 2 7
1934.. 21,573 716.8 1559.5 11,750 4 9 7
1935.. 23,764 761.4 1619.2 12,800 416 9
1936.. 26,218 785.9' 1641.8 13,640 5 2 3
1937.. 28,881 824.1 1663.9 14,870 510 4
The consumption of beer in 1937 in-
creased by 2,663,000 gallons, and was
594,000 gallons short of the 1929 figure.
There was a marked increase in con-
sumption during the first quarter of
1938, due mainly to Sydney’s sesqui-
centenary celebrations and special Anzac
Day arrangements. More important still
was the fact that employment continued
to increase throughout the year, while
wage lifts further expanded payrolls.
After making whatever provision was
considered necessary for bad and doubt-
ful debts and other contingencies, and
striking £101,332 (up £10,096) off the
book value of plant, etc., the' year’s
gross earnings sprang £176,764, reaching
a record £1,819,421:
Management, Exes.
Gross Wages, p.c. Net
Seipt., Earnings. Excise, etc. Gross. Profit.
1915.. £652,360 £367,566 56.3 £284,794
1920.. 670,783 499,594 74.4 171,189
1925.. 862,934 495,284 57.4 367,650
1930.. 1,593,798 907,406 56.9 686,392
1932.. 1,092,345 624,871 57.3 467,474
1933.. 1,078,981 596,777 55.3 482,204
1934.. 1,237,497 670,378 54.1 567,119
1935.. 1,383,891 755,192 54.5 628,699
1936.. 1,505,003 808,975 53.7 696,028
1937.. 1,642,657 867.962 52.8 774.695
1938.. 1,819,421 977,582 53.7 841,839
The lift in wages is reflected in a growth
of 18s. p.c. in the ratio of exes, to gross
earnings. The net result (up £67,144)
was 13.6 p.c. on capital as against 12.5,
11.8, 11.1, 10, 8.5, 8.3, 8.5, 12.2, 14.7
and 15.2 p.c. back to 1928. A point was
added to the div., making it 111 p.c.,
the final being at the rate of 12 p.c. p.a.
Despite the special influences which
tended to bump up last year’s earnings,
and, notwithstanding the upward trend
of costs and shrinkage in the export
section of our national income, chances
of the 12 p.c. div. being maintained dur-
ing the current term are encouraging.
On the market the pound shares have
fluctuated between 575. and 465. 3d. since
the beginning of 1938. Last week-end the
figure was 545. 9d., at which the return
is 4.4 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis. Visibly
the cover is 245. in net tangibles.
Strength and continued expansion of
the business are the outstanding features
of balance-sheet figures:
Assets:— 1925. 1937. 1938.
Breweries etc... £2,426,241 £6,231,631 £6,397,118
Book debts .. 1,172,258 1,207,831 1,129,430
Stock . .. 409,451 265,390 355,940
Liquid .. .. 182,522 793,902 947,192
£4,190,472 £8,498,754 £8,829,670
Sundry creditors.. 424,740 790,307 960,173
Net assets .. £3,705,732 £7,708,447 £7,869,507
Paid capital .. £3.100,493 £0,182,657 £6,182,657
The additions of £165,487 to breweries,
etc.—the etcetera is hotel freeholds,
bought partly to anchor turnover —
£90,550 to stocks and £153,290 to liquids
are encouraging movements. To meet
the outlay £169,866 was added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors, and
book debts were reduced by £78,401.
The year’s improvement in the net asset
position was £161,060.
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd. (Melb.)
t Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Sept., Profit. 04 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
1928.. 219.245 8125 25}p.c.=140,250 70,870 197,935
1929. .265,837 8125 28 „ ~164,000 103,712 301,647
Reserves capitalised (one ord. for two),
£275,000 .. .. 26,647
1930.. 223.578 8125 22 p.c.-156,367 59,086 85,733
1931. .147,934 8125 9„ „ 98,310 41,493 127,226
Added goodwill, £52,000 .. .. 75,226
1932. .191,105 8125 10 p.e.=110,000 72,980 148,200
1933. .182,118 8125 10 „ ~110,000 63,993 212,199
1934. .186,748 8125 10 „ ~110,000 68,623 280,822
Deficit.
Depreciation reserve deducted from
plant in balance sheet, £366,139.. 85,317
1935. .209,707 8125 10 p.c.=110,000 I rn , K 1
Written off, £41,031.. ..j 60 ’ 561 34,766
Reserves.
1936. .226,529 8125 12 p.c.=132,000 ) 4r> „ Q 1 , n
Written off, £41,113.. .. J 46,291 10,626
1937. .259,659 8125 12 p.c:=132,000 1 7fi nni
Written off, £41,533.. ..f 78,001 88 - 526
1938.. 295.770 8125 14 p.c.=154,000 ) BQ l7a 4ao
Written off, £43,682.. j 89,063 178,489
This is the largest newspaper organisa-
tion in Australia, and one of the most
prosperous, too. Including its share-
holdings, the co.’s interests embrace a
• string of daily and other publications,
etc., in Melbourne, Adelaide and Bris-
bane ; it is also in the broadcasting busi-
ness, and, together with other newspaper
cos., proposes to erect mills for the
manufacture of newsprint at Boyer, on
the Derwent (Tas.).
Since the reconstruction in 1924, when
the ords. received a three-for-two gift
issue (£125,000), divs. have averaged 15.3
p.c. with satisfactory margins, and
£690,594, of which £275,000 was bonus
scrip, has been added to paid capital,
raising the figure to £1,225,000 in 125,000
6| p.c. cum. prefs. and 1,100,000 ords.
During the 12 months to the end of
September last, all the co.’s own publi-
cations contributed to the pool— most im-
portant of these are the “Herald” (it is
the backbone of the business, and has
outlived one competitor after another in
the Melbourne evening field) and the
“Sun,” a morning daily, whose circula-
tion is the largest in Australia (it was
taken over from Sun Newspapers, Ltd.,
Sydney, when that co. retired from the
southern field). The co.’s large invest-
ments in newspapers and other activities
in other States continue to yield “sound
returns,” while its broadcasting activities
have been extended, with improved
trading results.
The lift in the year’s gross earnings from
all sources (£445,751) was £42,678. Exes.
(£149,982) took only £6568 of the in-
crease. After allowing £43,682 (up £2149)
for depreciation, the board called
£252,088 (up £33,962) of the year’s tak-
ings net profit. This was enough to pay
the pref. div. and show 22.1 p.c. on ord.
capital. According to the co.’s 1927
report, however, visible allowances were
“in excess of normal provision for depre-
ciation,” and the co.’s history provides
ample confirmation of this. Including
the £43,682, the year’s net result was suf-
ficient to hand the prefs. their £8125 and
show 26.1 p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 22.8, 19.8, 18.1, 16.2, 15.8, 16.6,
12.7 and 30.3 p.c. back to 1930—juicy
returns, considering the times. The div.
was lifted from 12 p.c. to 14 p.c. There
is nothing in sight at the moment to
suggest that 14 p.c. is not likely to be
maintained for the current term ; indeed,
the co.’s chances of recording still fur-
ther improvement in earnings are en-
couraging.
Balance-sheet figures reflect continued
and healthy expansion of the business:
1931. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Stock.. £104,679 £150,729 £359,451 £295,4a5
“•5K 89,116 214,911 230,879' 229,273
Shares
in other ~
cos... 478,315 337,840 328,140 340,944
Cash.. 92,172 39,556 537 56,487
Liquids £764,282 £743,036 £919,007 £922,159
Liabilities 103,657 138,496 225,048 126,812
Surplus £660,625 £004,540 £693,959 £795,347
Freeholds,
etc... 331,711 421,304 429,218 460,226
Machinery
and
plant 445,513 320,721 302,463 291,829
Net
assets £1,437,849 £1,346,626 £1,373,590 £1,547,402
Stocks, mainly paper, were down £63,996
last year, but they were still nearly
double the 1936 figure, and the price of
newsprint continues on the up-grade.
Shareholdings increased by £12,804, and
cash by £55,950, while £98,236 was
lopped off the outside debt. The net
addition to freehold, etc., was £31,008,
and £10,634 more was written off than
was spent on plant, etc. The year's
growth in net assets was £173,812.
The market prices the pound ords. at
58s. (625. 6d. a year ago), at which figure
the return is 4.8 p.c. on a 14 p.c. div.
basis. The well-protected prefs. at 31s.
yield 4.2 p.c. Visibly the net tangible
cover is £ll/4/6 prefs. and 235. 4d. ords.
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Written
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1928.. 261,516 11$ p.c.= 145,034 61,938 1,394,607
1929.. 435,752 13} „ ~ 177,265 111,624 1,541,470
1930.. 183,543 18} ~,, 241,724 58,354 1,424,935
1931.. 101,130 7$ „,, 103,210 29,810 1,393,045
1932.. 88,511 2$ „„ 38,750 43,913 1,398,893
1933.. 96,687 2$ „„ 38,750 47,400 1,409,430
1934.. 38,972 2$ „„ 38,750 32,480 1,377,172
1935.. 127,751 Nil 61,672 1,443,251
1936.. 263,958 5 p.c. = 77,500 76,759 1,553,130
1937.. 420,404 15 „ „ 232,500 76,472 1,664,562
1938.. 224,149 125,, „ 193,750 73,556 1,621,405
Shareholders have much for which to
thank the management. Ten years ago
the co. treated 127,425 tons ore assaying
5.88 p.c. copper, and the end of this
high-grade ore was in sight. So the co.
had to find a way of profitably dealing
with the low-grade stuff, or in a few
years go out of the copper-mining busi-
ness. The hardest nut to crack was costs,
which, however, yielded to mechanised
opencut mining and to changes in
methods of treatment and to improve-
ments in plant, etc. Last term 1,038,579
(up 188,341) tons was mined, and all
but 6451 tons of it was treated for the
following results:
1928. 1931. 1937. 1938.
Ore treated (tons) 127,425 283,262 841,427 1,032,128
Assay copper, p.c. 5.88 3.50 1.67 1.48
Blister produced
(tons) .. 7,126 10,115 12,883 12,766
Contents:—
Copper (tons) 7,060 10,033 12,792 12.676
Silver (oz.) .. 121,456 155.976 91,651 71,293
Gold (oz.) .. 2,360 3,834 6.430 7,619
Last term’s tonnage was the largest
mined and treated in one year by any
gold or base-metal mining enterprise in
Australia. About 80 p.c. of the stuff,
assaying only 1.15 p.c. copper, came from
the opencuts in the West Lyell and
Prince Lyell sections. Here the ore is
handled by large electric shovels and 12-
ton motor-trucks. The reduction of 117
(Continued on page 54.)


CHARLES
RUWOLT
PROPRIETARY, LIMITED
DESIGNING
MANUFACTURING
MINING AND
STRUCTURAL
ENGINEERS
IRON and STEEL
FOUNDERS
IMPORTANT
ENGINEERING
ACHIEVEMENTS
We have a highly-trained staff of engineers
who have made a special study of the
manufacture of many classes of industrial
machinery, and we will gladly advise in
reference to the manufacture of
Mining, Cement, Rubber, Rock
Crushing and General Industrial
Machinery
Our STEEL FOUNDRY is one of the
largest and best equipped in Australia,
including modern laboratory equipped for
analysis, metallography, physical testing,
etc.
Consult us on all matters relating to steel
castings.
VICTORIA ST., RICHMOND, VICTORIA
-
■
f f
BRIDGE
STEe lw Oßk
. 4 *:
'■ ', -rr ■t' > w'LJw'/„ mfr//'
\, W&£ **■'**"'
a
*0 ***
. /-">
. ■ • •
& *
C^USHtP-
-4S *
7
■ •
- -
c *4iY
•rf*--.
sft .
„ v\\%^ ;


J AV
Bathed in glorious tropical sunshine,
Java, with her countless attractions,
awaits you beautiful landscapes
ancient temples bazaars colourful
native life—palatial hotels. Equipped
with every modern convenience, the
t.s.s. ''MARELLA” and m.v. "MERKUR"
sail regularly from Melbourne and
Sydney along a smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious
decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking picture
equipment—each day is pleasure-filled.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE 87901
b
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
And at ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND
■
m
£lOO for your Child's
EDUCATION
How A.M.P. Industrial Policies lighten
parents' problems
GOOD health is sure ground on which to build a child’s future.
A sound school education puts in foundation, but it is the
, specialised knowledge acquired later that is the passport to
a child’s success.
Money is needed for this advanced training. You can ensure that
it will be available for your child by taking out an A.M.P. Industrial
Policy under which the premiums will be collected at your home each
week.
In October, 1918, a parent assured the life of his son, then aged
two years, under the Society’s Industrial Table K2O. The policy pro-
vided for payment of £7B plus Bonuses at the expiration of 20 years,
in return for a weekly premium of 1/6. The policy matured last
month, when £lOO/3/- was paid over by the Society. This amount
included £22/3/- as Bonus additions, and represented more than 28
per cent, over and above the total premiums paid. Had the parent
invested 3/- a week, the amount would have been £2OO/6/-.
What of YOUR children? Talk it over with the next A.M.P.
representative who calls. You can rely on him as you can rely on
the Society, which is the Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
AM P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Lite Office in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
D. E. Walker, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
OKES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales! Suffi-
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
# * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith. Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
ludowici pioneer
df
LEATHER BELTING
In the Power Transmission Field, Pioneer Leather Belting
stands supreme with a standard of quality unrivalled
for 80 years. Many of the largest industrial under-
takings in Australia are equiped with this dependable
Belting that is made by the oldest established, and
by far the largest leather belting manufacturers in
the Southern Hemisphere.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
II 7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
tons in copper content of the blister was
due to further contraction in the average
assay value of the ore, 1.48 p.c. as against
1.67 p.c. copper for the previous term.
The recovery was a trifle better at 89.32
p.c., and the ratio of concentration was
19.4 to 1 as against 16.4 to 1.
It was chiefly the fall in the price of
the metal, accompanied by a rise in costs,
that brought net earnings back to
nearly half the 1937 figure. In London
electrolytic averaged only £S44 17s. sd.
( = £AS6 Is. 9d.) as against £S6O Bs. 3d.
(=£A75 10s. 4d.) and £S4O 14s. Bd.
( = £ASO 18s. 4d.) for the two preceding
terms.
The all-in net cost of producing and
realising a ton of copper was £52 ss. 3d.
as against £47 125., £42 14s. lOd. and
£43 Is. lOd. for the three preceding
years. The lift of £4 13s. 3d. in last
year’s figure was due mainly to higher
wages and shorter hours, which became
operative half-way through the previous
term.
Gross earnings from copper, railway
traffic, etc. (co. owns the line from
Strahan to Queenstown), were £846,713
(down £185,395), and from dividends
£85,953 (up £14,342). The divs. came
from the following investments:
Shares Fully
Company—- Paid to £l.
Com’wealth Fertilisers and Chemicals:
301,924 7 p.c. prefs. ) 898,181
596,257 ords. )
Cuming Smith and Mt. Lyell Farmers’
Fertilisers .. .. . . • • 450,000
Australian Fertilizers .. . . • • 93,750
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilisers .. .. 27,150
Metal Manufactures:
49,204 7 p.c. cum. par. prefs. ) ,oo
213,219 ords. j ’ ’ ’
Metal Manufactures and its subsidiary,
Austral Bronze (Port Kembla), are the
brightest units in the group. Including
the charge for prospecting, development
and depreciation (£73,556, shown as
written off in the table), exes, amounted
to £781,836 (up £21,969), owing to causes
already explained. Allowing for minor
reserve adjustments, the net result
(£150,593, down £193,339) was 9.7 p.c.
on the £1,550,000 of capital—s.s p.c.
from investments and the balance from
mining—compared with 22.1, 12, 4.2, 0.4
and 3.1 p.c. back to 1933. Divs. paid
during the period covered by the ac-
counts dropped from 15 p.c. to 12£ p.c.
A shilling per share will be sent out on
December 19 as against 6d. in June last.
Ore reserves are calculated as follows:
Assay—
Cop- hil-
Oe, per, ver, Gold,
Tons. l'.c. Oz. Oz.
North Lyell .. .. 133,000 4.00 0.50 0.015
Lyell Comstock . . 433,000 2.25 0.20 0.020
Royal Tharsis . . 2,250,000 2.00 0.10 0.020
West Lyell—
. No. 1 ore-body . . 4,700,000 1.50 0.10 0.015
No. 2 ore-body . . 3,250,000 1.00 0.10 0.010
Crown Lyell.. .. 180,000 1.75 0.25 0.015
Lyell Tharsis . . 200,000 1.50 0.25 0.015
Total—l93B . . 11,146,000 1.52 0.11 0.015
1937 . . 9,894,000 1.69 0.13 0.016
1936 . . 8,825,000 1.90 0.14 0.016
1935 . . 7,593,000 2.05 0.17 0.020
The total is over a million tons greater
than at the previous balance, despite the
year’s record extraction, and enough to
provide over 11 years’ feed for the mill.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances. When the books closed, the
liquid surplus amounted to £427,695
(down £82,496), shares in other cos. were
unchanged at £1,515,526, the mine
figured at £525,551 (down £6311), plant
£484,135 (up £40,343) and railway
£218,499 (up £5307).
As for the outlook, consumption of
the red metal is on the increase, and the
production quota was recently lifted from
95 p.c. to 105 p.c. In London the average
price of , electrolytic advanced from
£S39 16s. 9d. for May to £SSI 13s. 3d.
for October. Last week-end the figure
was £S49 10s., equal to £A6I 17s. 6d.
At this price, and on the basis of last
year’s production and costs, etc., a 10
p.c. div. appears to be well within reach.
Since the beginning of 1938 the pound
shares, which follow the market for the
metal, have fluctuated between 355. 3d.
and 225. 6d. Last week-end the figure
was 295., at which the return would be
6.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
“Borehole”: Results from a single
core encourage further boring when they
are good, or may depress the adventurer
in a new area when they are bad. Now
assume that you crushed an old-fashioned
sovereign (roughly a quarter of an ounce
of gold) and mixed it thoroughly with a
ton of sand. That would be a
highly payable assay if maintained over
hundreds of thousands of tons of reef.
Half a sovereign (almost an eighth of an
ounce) to a ton of ore could be moder-
ately payable if the ore-body was thick
and capable of cheap working. Still,
however industriously you mix your
theoretical ton of sand and an eighth or
quarter of an ounce of crushed gold, a
larger proportion of the heavy metal
would tend to be found in some sections
than others. If you inserted a large
syringe and drew out several small
samples, one might assay well over a
sovereign’s weight to the ton, another
well under half a sovereign’s weigl t
From a third you might possibly ge,
something between the two weights, or
just as possibly the merest trace, if any
indication *at all, of the gold you know
to be in your mixture. This helps to.
illustrate the difficulty of accurately
sampling a proposition, as well as why
a single borehole cannot be relied upon
as a true indication of the value of a
gold reef. However, a sufficient num-
ber of cores taken from a fairly wide
area of reef may give a sufficiently
reasonable indication to warrant embark-
ing on a costly programme of shaft-
sinking and development. The Big Bell
(W.A.) was tested in this way.
* * * *
Sandy Creek’s Christmas box to share-
holders is a 3d. div. (10 p.c. = £7750),
payable Dec. 17. It equals the full dis-
tribution for the previous term, when
two l|d. handouts were made, and the
current term has another five months to
run. For the seven months ended Novem-
ber recoveries ran to 3s. 6d. a c.y., or
a shilling or so higher than the previous
year’s experience, while turnover has in-
creased from an average 16,300 to 18,000
c.y. monthly. Costs have shown little
movement. Paradoxically, the 2s. 6d.
shares at Is. 3d. are around their lowest
point for the year.
* * * *
For the year to June 30, Gt. Boulder
Mining and Finance received in divi-
dends, interest, etc., £36,416. Exes, took
£10,213, and £49,760 was written off for
development, leaving the year’s deficit at
£23,558. Cash totalled £9644, and debtors
£40,277. The amount coming to creditors
was £3395. The co. is one of two London
financial corporations formed by Claude
de Bernales to operate in Westralia. Its
chief assets are a four-ninth interest in
Comet, a sixth interest in Yellowdine and
the whole of the issued shares in Gladi-
ator, which has just reached the produc-
tion stage. A capital reconstruction is
planned, and the ss. shares (4,848,132 are
issued) have come down to Bd. in
London.
* * * *
Dale Pitt, the Yankee boss of Big Bell,
has returned to the West from a trip
abroad to find several anxious sellers of
mines sitting on his doorstep. Some
got him interested ; others were turned
away with a polite word and pleasant
smile. Pitt’s welcome-home at the mine
was attended by all hands and the cook,
and the following figures were released
for publication: Crushed to date 450,000
tons, gold production therefrom 72,000
fine ounces, monthly wages bill £lO,OOO,
monthly commodities bill (chiefly for
mining requisites purchased locally)
£9OOO.
sf: * * #
Linden (W.A.), working a small show
near Wiluna, has declared a sixpenny
div. Some time ago the co. announced
that it had £75,000 worth of gold in
sight, and that it had a larger and better
proposition than earlier reports indicated.


Insure with tlie
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office t Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ass-
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W
1888—1938
dsf
THIS COMPANY
OFFERS
FIFTY YEARS’
EXPERIENCE
PLUS
SPECIALISED
ORGANISATION
BOARD OP DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward P. Mitchell, K.C.M.G.,
K.C.. Chairman.
Sir Stephen Morell, K. 8., Vice-
Chairman.
Sir Alan Currie, K. 8., M.L.C.
E. P. Herring, Esq., K.C.
Rt. Hon. R. O. Menzies, P.C., K.C ,
M.P.
Allan Spowers, Esq.
P. R. WOOD, Manager.
ROBERT MONEY, Asst. Manager.
The EQUITY TRUSTEES
COMPANY
472 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Convert Quickly!
Those people holding Australian Con-
solidated loans now maturing and who
intend to convert would be well advised
to do so without delay. They will gain
nothing by waiting, and will, on the other
hand, improve the market status of their
new stock if the conversion is, with their
assistance, carried out quickly and
smoothly.
The cash-and-conversion loan may be
oversubscribed by the public ; it may be
undersubscribed by the public; but,
whichever happens, it will be filled any-
how. It has been underwritten by the
Commonwealth Bank, with the trading
banks as sub-underwriters, and in the
event of a shortage of public subscrip-
tions these bodies will take what is left.
The war scare of a couple of months
back tended to bring about a lengthening
of interest rates on Consols. In October
the average yield obtainable on issues
having 10 to 15 years to run was £3 17s.
per cent., the same as for September, but
about 2s. per cent, higher than for July.
Since then war possibilities seem to have
been relegated to the shades —nobody
really wants war —and the price of wool
in Australia has improved, with very
speedy clearances at the sales.
The present loan offers £3 17s. 6d. per
cent., term 16 years. There is cer-
tainly nothing better offering in the
bonds market, and most investors should
have a proportion of their money in
Consols. If they make up their minds
quickly, as holders of £48,000,000-worth
of old stock had done last week, they
will be doing the country a good turn.
The £4,000,000 of additional cash asked
for under the operation is wanted for
defence.
Sharemarket activity became very stale
last week. With the undercurrent of
national economics in a changeable
mood, it isn’t unnatural that as Christ-
mas approaches the Stock Exchanges
tend to become less interesting to specu-
lators and investors. .This isn’t a boom
year, and booms are the only things that
interest speculators about holiday time.
If hard thinking is called for they prefer
to leave investment and speculation
alone. The conversion loan may have
had something to do with the dullness,
and flatness in the New York share-
market certainly exercised an influence.
Though gold has been soaring in terms
of sterling and Australian currency, base
metals, excepting tin, have been weaker
in London, though they rallied on Wed-
nesday. Spelter is weakest, and Barrier
stocks have suffered on Australian
’Changes. The announcement by Colin
Fraser that the South mine has a known
life of about 11 years brought home to
shareholders the truth that all good
things must come to an end, even
Broken Hill. But the North mine should
last at least half as long again as the
South, and Zinc Corp. longer than both
of them together. With N.B.H. Con-
solidated, Zinc Corp. is likely still to be
mining ore when its youngest present
employee reaches middle-age.
* * * *
Placer Development during the year to
April 30 showed a net profit of 956,500
Canadian dollars, which was in excess
of its own paid capital of $730,000 (in
dollar shares). During the term $1.20 a
share went out in divs. On Dec. 9 an-
other 60 cents is payable. Placer draws
its revenue from the following cos.; its
proportionate interest in them is shown,
as well as their last disclosed earnings:
Placer’s Cos.’
Holding, p.c. Profits.
Bulolo .. .. 30.6 $3,453,464
Pato .. .. 36.0 $315,656
Nechi .. .. 100.0
Asnazu .. .. 41.0 $436,226
Rutherglen .. 64.0 £27,763
Gold Dumps Pty. 83.3 £lO,OOO
Clutha .. .. 100.0 •
American Placers 100.0
Placer Management 100.0 $4,359
Bulolo (New Guinea) has about 17 years’
dredgable life ahead of it at last year’s
rate of extraction. Treatment, however,
is to be lifted shortly, which should in-
crease earnings and reduce the life. Pato
Consolidated (S. America) treated only
4,282,800 c.y. to earn last year’s profit;
with additional dredges 16,000,000 c.y.
are now to be treated annually, and better
values are expected as well. Nechi Con-
solidated’s property adjoins Pato, and,
legal difficulties having been overcome,
development for dredging should start
soon. Asnazu treated 1,508,738 c.y. for
recoveries worth 57 cents a yard ; gravel
reserves at April 30 were 18,500,000 c.y.
worth 40 cents and 35,000,000 c.y. aver-
aging 20 cents. A new 4,000,000-c.y.-p.a.
dredge, now being designed, should
step-up production substantially and cut
costs. Rutherglen Gold Dumps, in Vic-
toria, has years’ work ahead of it.
Gold Dumps, Pty., is buying up new
dumps for treatment from time to time.
The benefits of Placer’s many new or
expanding ventures should soon begin to
show up in its earnings; Pato particu-
larly should have much more to show
for itself. Placer’s dollar shares are at
745. in Sydney, and on a $1.20 div. basis
the yield is a shade under 9 p.c., with
some freedom from Federal tax. The
div. may reasonably be expected to lift
as soon as the subsidiaries become more
active ; a rise is generally expected dur-
ing the current year.
* * * *
After some exceptionally heavy output
months (especially July and September),
Broken Hill Prop.’s production of ingot
steel at Newcastle has dropped over the
latest eight weeks. Still, progress figures
since June 1 show an increase on those
for the corresponding previous period,
and the Port Kembla works of A.I. and
S., figures for which aren’t published,
are growing increasingly important.
* * * *
One good thing that has happened dur-
ing recent months has been a slight fall
in the retail prices of food and groceries.
For some time the trend in the cost of
bodily sustenance has been too decidedly
upward to be anything less than discon-
certing, but in October there was a drop
•—only 0.4 of 1 p.c., on the average, but
still a drop —in all States except Tas-
mania. The measure of the fall men-
tioned is in comparison with the previous
month; over a year there has been an
average rise in food costs of between
p.c. and 4 p.c. Victoria and N. S. Wales
have led the way. During October export
prices were inclined to rise, which is all
to the good. It is costs of living within
a country that do the damage.
* * * *
From Fred C. Emanuel and Co., soli-
citors, of Sydney:
Section 87 of the Federal Act and Section
99 of the N.S.W. Act impose a liability for
taxation on the owner of freehold where
a lessee has effected improvements to the
leased premises.
The liability for taxation under the Acts
is imposed on the person for the time being
entitled to the reversion of the property —
that is, either the lessor or any person to
whom the lessor may transfer the property
during the term of the lease.
It will accordingly appear that anyone
buying a freehold property (e.g., a hotel)
which at the time of the purchase is subject
to a lease may become liable for taxation
under the foregoing sections.
In cases where the improvements are effected
after the date of a purchase, this would entail
no greater hardship on the purchaser than it
would on the original lessor; but where the
improvements have been effected prior to the
date of the purchase the relative sections im-
pose on the buyer a liability to taxation
in respect of a proportionate part (for each
year still to run) of the value of the improve-
ments. Provision is also made for the whole
value of the improvements as at the expira-
tion of the lease being assessable as income in
the last year of the lease where, in the opinion
of the commissioner, such value cannot be
estimated at the date the improvements are
made.
A buyer in such circumstances may base
his purchase price on the improved value of
the property at the date of purchase and pay
such price to the lessor and still be liable for
taxation under the sections. He may also be
incurring a liability for taxation for which
provision should be made in advance.
A prudent buyer of a hotel instructed
us to ask the Taxation Department whether
there was any such liability to taxation in his
case. The N. S. Wales commissioner replied:
“I desire to acknowledge receipt of your
communication dated 25th October, 1938, and
would advise that the secrecy provisions of the
Income Tax Acts prevent me from divulging
the information desired.”
So it will readily appear that a buyer may
be undertaking liabilities of which he is quite
unaware and the amount of which he cannot
ascertain save from the Income Tax Depart-
ment, which won’t inform him until he actu-
ally becomes liable!
* * * »
The selling in large blocks of scrip
out of an estate has forced down the
price of Port Jackson Steam shares in
Sydney. For a fortnight quotations have
been below 165.; last week 15s. 9d. was
taken steadily. The div. of 8 p.c. was
well covered last year, and at 15s. 9d.
the 10s. shares return 5.1 p.c.
* * * *
Highgates, Ltd., which started off with
a policy of “credit to whom credit is
due” and ideas of establishing a chain of
credit stores in Sydney, lost £22,704 dur-
ing the 19 months to Sept. 30, after
charging £9863 to establishment. Out
of a paid capital of £101,980, £71,639
is represented by intangibles, including
£17,020 of leaseholds. An arrangement
for extended payment of creditors
(£37,048) was made on Sept. 8. The
creditors asked that the whole of the
original board should retire, but, though
his services with the co. were terminated,
E. C. B. Midlane is still on the board.
* * * *
Waldas Shoes, which has two factories
at Collingwood (Vic.) and 20 women’s
shoe-shops in Melbourne, Sydney, Adel-
aide and Geelong, made a loss of £1309
for the 12 months to June 30, 1938, be-
cause of “price-cutting in the retail trade
and shortage of woman operatives in the
factories.” In 1935 and 1936 ord. divs.
of 15 p.c. were paid, and the shares were
hawked by Cranwells (A/asia), Ltd., at
fancy prices; later, in May, 1936, the
ords. changed hands on Melbourne
’Change at 425. Last sale was around
6s. The 8 p.c. prefs., carrying a year’s
arrears of div., last sold at par.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
The sharemarket was inactive, but showed
a firm undertone as regards sound industrials.
Gordon and Gotch ords. kept near their record
price, Australian Cement stayed around 345.
6d., and Henry Jones was steady at 48s. 6d.,
ex div. Carlton Brewery was buoyant at 675.,
and Australian Glass was at £5 Is. 6d., div.
paid.
Broken Hill Prop, at 565. gave the satisfac-
tory yield of £4 9s. 2d. per cent.
Barriers had the market guessing. Souths.
at 28s. 9d., compared with 48s. in the case
of Norths. It isn’t so long ago that The
Bulletin took several weeks to convince the
market that Norths were worth half as much
again as Souths; last week Norths were priced
at 661 P-c. more than Souths.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
All for the Foreigner.
[Though in this (condensed) London “Daily Express”
article, Henry Williamson, writer of many fine novels
and other books of the English countryside, is mainly
concerned with the lot of the Man on the Land there,
his arresting plea for a return to considering our own
problems and affairs, instead of trying to meddle with
those of foreign countries, has its point also here,
where the humbugs he lashes are just as loud.]
A year has gone by since I took over my Norfolk
farm, and I feel I have the farm, 240 acres of it, in the
hollow of my hand.
And yet, the real struggle is only just beginning.
Listen. I can’t sell my barley, except at a loss.
Thousands of British farmers are in this position. I
saw farmers on Norwich Hill, near the market, pour-
ing their envelopes of sample corn, their unwanted,
unbought corn, into the gutter.
England doesn’t want it. England has bought
foreign barley. England? Well, the money-power
of England. I shall have to sell my barley, on which
I was hoping to pay all the coming year’s wages, for
less than the cost of production. There it is, in the
stocks. No use holding it. The maltsters are full up.
They have bought foreign barley.
It was the same with the bullocks. I fed them
for 13 weeks on roots, hay, crushed oats, cotton-cake ;
and at market, as fat or beef beasts, they sold for
little more than original cost. I forget how many
millions of pounds of Argentine beef were imported
about the time my few beasts were fat, but that was
why I lost money on them.
But why is so much beef imported? Why does
the cotton operative in Lancashire go to draw the dole
in a cheap Japanese-spun cotton shirt? Because these
imports are interest on loans. The financial dictators
have lent money to foreign countries —money earned
by British workers —and the interest on those loans
comes back again in the form of foreign grain, foreign
beef, foreign goods.
That is the fundamental reason why laborers are
leaving the countryside. There is no work for them,
although the land is sick at heart for lack of being
worked. British soil grows poorer and poorer every
year. No one seems to care ; particularly our child-
less, humanitarian intellectuals!
People tell me I am a fool to go in for farming
when failure is a foregone conclusion. They raise
eyebrows knowingly when I say I have five children.
They say that if I want to lose the money I made
out of my books, then that is my lookout.
The same people talk about smashing this or that
foreign country. Some of them even send donations
to this or that fund to help this or that country, and
they care nothing about the land of Britain or the
people of Britain.
They are made emotional by facile indignation
against imagined wrongs done in other countries, books
and articles written by childless, humanitarian intel-
lectuals like themselves ; but they care nothing about
their own country.
The day of foreign loans, of usury, of spurious
humanitarianism —all part of the same selfish laziness
—is nearly over. We have the finest Empire in the
world —and nearly 2,000,000 men in Britain are on
the dole. And this despite the hundreds of millions
being spent on armaments!
The causes are plain ; and when most of you per-
ceive the root cause international usury will begin to
wither. Then shall we turn to our own people, to our
own industries, to our own land, and build the New
Britain.
Trade with our colonies? Of course, on a pound-
for-pound basis. Wars? No ; satisfied people do not
make wars. Germany for the Germans ; France for
the French ; Czechland for the Czechs ; Russia for the
Russians ; Britain for the British. No more inter-
national cheese, bacon, corn, cotton shirts, finance
or humanitarianism.
As a Woman Saw Germany.
[Eyewitness impressions of Germany to-day, as
gathered by Enid Bagnold on a recent touring visit and
recorded in an article, here condensed from London
“Sunday Times.”]
Having just driven myself in a Ford 2200 miles
through Belgium, Germany, Sudetenland, Czecho-
slovakia, a corner of Austria, back into Germany and
through part of France, I would say that to drive from
any of the countries I have named over the frontier
into Germany is like driving from the Whitechapel-
road into, say, a county town just before Christmas.
Immediately you are in Germany you are aware
of a blaze and bustle of activity and gaiety. There is
vigor and expectancy on the faces, and friendliness,
a look as though to-day was an occasion, and not, as
in the paintless depressed streets across the neighbor-
ing frontiers, one of an endless sequence of anxious
days.
The impact of this vitality was so violent, so im-
mediate, so on the threshold of entry, that its impres-
sion never left me. I kept returning to it in my mind.
“This vital life, this health and strength and look of
happiness, there is nothing like it in Europe.” And
often I thought of America. America, but without
strikes.
From one end of Germany to the other, every-
where the manner and manners of the people were
alike; the manner of happy people, helpful, open, frank,
without depression or suspicion. During days and
days of driving something is drawn up into the mind
out of the life of the anonymous working people in
fields and towns which becomes knowledge without
words. •
I met no single person of importance, or even of
the upper classes. I received no propaganda into my
mind because I had not the means to receive it. I
cannot read the newspapers and I speak only a little
German. Instead, I received an infiltration of pictures
and impressions which hardened slowly into definite
lines of thought.
Six years old, and a giant, Germany stands out of
focus among the shaken nations around her —Ger-
many, this mysterious page written on Europe, its
inner policy so shunned and unexplored. I felt that
even an amateur, an unspecialised citizen of another
country, has an equal chance with anyone to attempt
an understanding and an exploration.
As I went deeper into the countryside and felt
the steady strength of the life, I thought with horror
of that week in September, and through what blind
misunderstandings we might have found ourselves at
war with what I saw. On all sides was the hand of
Gulliver in Europe—giant roads, giant traffic, giant
buildings and behind them and working in them a
steady, disciplined people, adoring its leader.
Rather than fighting unity and discipline like this,
why not examine it and find out how it is that in six
years a policy has been devised and carried out which
has penetrated eighty million people with a new atti-
tude towards life?
The Chaos That Is France.
[The chaotic state of divergent political opinions and
outlook underlying last week’s near-plunge into general
chaos in France, as examined in an article condensed
from London Labor “Daily Herald,” by that news-
paper’s Paris correspondent, Jack Sandford.]
French democracy is split into as many factions
as there are Frenchmen. Not only is the Opposition
divided on vital issues, but also the Majority and the
Cabinet itself. Such conditions have paralysed the
democratic supervision of national policy. In fact,
democracy has been suspended without anyone notic-
ing the fact.
The Frenchman-in-the-street was mobilised and
wearily resigned to war on the eve of Munich. Next
day he went mad with relief. Now he does not know
what to think or feel. He wants France to be better
armed, but the idea of the necessary sacrifices repels
him.
The biggest organised force in the country, the
Trades Union Confederation, contains four main ten-
dencies identified with general secretary Leon Jouhaux,
assistant secretary Rene Belin, the Teachers’ secretary
M. Delmas and the Communist party.
The Delmas group is uncompromisingly pacifist;
it prefers anything to the risk of war. The larger
Belin group fears war more than it fears Fascism ;
it does not anticipate Fascism in France, but it is cer-
tain that war even with victory would destroy every-
thing that makes the workers’ lives worth living ; it
places its hopes in an international conference rather
than in a super-arms programme.
The Jouhaux group fears Fascism more than war,
and is ready to risk war to save democracy, particu-
larly French democracy, which it believes to be
menaced. It favors rearmament, but does not exclude
negotiations backed by guns. It would not fight or
support a war solely for the defence and assistance of
the U.S.S.R. In this, it differs from the Communists
both in the T.U.C. and in Parliament.
The mainspring of Communist policy is the
defence and assistance of the U.S.S.R. by uncom-
promising resistance to Germany m a ’ ,
hostile to any negotiations that do not reinforce
Russian position. .
All these groups, even the Communists, have
their internal dissensions.
The Socialists form the largest Parliamentary
party and the most important element of what has
been hitherto the Majority. A scale of Socialist
opinions ranges from those who are prepared o ris
immediate war to check Fascism to those who are tor
peace at any price.
Then there are those who would only fight it
attacked, those who see Imperialism as the enemy, not
Fascism, those who approve Munich and those who
do not, and finally, those who deny that there was a
risk of war before Munich and those who, like Leon
Blum, affirm it.
The great majority of the last big Government
party, the" Radicals, are behind the Government and
its policy of conciliation. They favor Munich. But
here again there are divisions. Some of the party’s
Left-wingers are for resistance, while others are for
conciliation. Among the Radical members of the
Cabinet, Foreign Minister Georges Bonnet is the great
champion of unconditional conciliation ; he laid down
the lines of his policy long before the Czechoslovakian
crisis. Some other Radical Ministers are not so sure.
Further towards the Centre is the Pezet group,
hostile to Munich and favoring a stern policy. Then
comes the group of Cabinet Minister Mandel, whose
leader was among the most hostile to Munich and who
still favors resistance while others in the group are
quite conciliatory.
Moving towards the Right, there is the powerful
“Big Business” group led by ex-Premier Flandin. This
group is split. Its leader personally encouraged Hitler
in his demands, and he and his friends are for concilia-
tion at any price. Their attitude has resulted in the
resignation of a number of other members of the
group, including Finance Minister Paul Reynaud,
bitterly hostile to the Cabinet’s whole foreign policy.
The middle tendency in the party approves the
Munich agreement, but admits the humiliation of it,
would maintain the Russian alliance and rearm, but is
keen to negotiate with Germany. A wing led by
ex-War Minister Fabry is not prepared either to nego-
tiate or to disarm until France shall be sufficiently
strong to enforce guarantees of German good faith.
Further Right still comes the big Conservative or
Marin group. A minority in it inclines towards the
policy of Munich. The majority is hostile, since this
policy is in direct opposition to its established policy on
relations with Germany. It would rearm and seek to
re-establish French prestige. Not an inch of French
colonial territory would it give to Hitler. But it does
not like the Franco-Soviet pact, and in this it differs
from the semi-Fascist Right-wing politician and jour-
nalist M. de Kerillis, whose position is strangely like
that of the Communists, except that he puts France
first.
Outside Parliament, there are the two big Fascist
groups —those who follow ex-Communist Doriot and
would make friends with Germany at any price, and
those who follow Colonel de la Rocque, who do not
disapprove of Munich, but are keen on re-establishing
French prestige and honor.
This gives a general view of French opinion on
one of the principal international problems —that of
Franco-German relations. To write of the opinions
held by these same groups and men on other problems,
such as Spain or Franco-Italian relations, the whole
subject would have to be remapped. There are those
who would fight Germany to-day and embrace Italy
to-morrow. Or those who would shake Hitler’s hand
at any time, but want to hurl the Fascists out of Spain.
In fact, public opinion is chaotic —so chaotic that
slowly but surely there is spreading in France the feel-
ing that dictatorship must come. Recognising that it
will not or cannot discipline itself, France is begin-
ning to look for a “Strong Man.”
“France Is Broke”
(.From a special article by London “Daily Express”
Paris correspondent, Geoffrey Cox.)
The trouble with France is that she is broke again.
Or, rather, her Government is broke; not her people.
M. Daladier and his Cabinet have found them-
selves facing a. prospective deficit which financial
experts put as high as £330,000,000 to £360,000,000
for the year. The mobilisation in September, the huge
rearmament programme, and the cost of years of
borrowing to-morrow’s money to meet to-day’s bills
have caused this.
The chief cause is that France is producing less
and selling less year after year. In Britain our volume
of production has gone up steadily since the slump
days. In France it has actually gone steadily down
since 1930, so that now the country turns out only
three-quarters of the goods she turned out eight years
ago.
German steel products are competing with French
steel. British dress-designers and modistes are turning
out more and more of the frocks and hats which pre-
viously came from the Rue de la Paix. Asiatic textiles
are pushing aside French textiles, and tourists, though
they still flock to the Cote d’Azur, are spending less
lavishly.
The French businessman, too, instead of putting
his money into new factories in the country, has been
sending much of it abroad for investment.
At times it looks as if the Frenchman —or at any
rate the French banker and businessman —believes in
keeping the Government hard up. For then he has
Pacts for Peace.
Completion of another step in the great
work being carried on by Britain’s Prime
Minister under his realistic foreign policy, as
viewed by Lord Elton in a London “Sunday
Times” article:—
The Anglo-Italian pact is much more than
a landmark in our relations with Italy. It is
a landmark in our relations with Germany as
well.
For if Germany is bound to be powerful,
as every consideration of history, geography or
economics assure us that she is ; and if we are
not to embrace the fantastic doctrine that when-
ever Germany becomes powerful there is to be
a new world war, then surely we must needs
look forward to a world which a great land
Power and a great sea Power can inhabit
together in amity, and we must recognise in the
Anglo-Italian pact the further significance that,
as long as Britain and Italy are on good terms,
the extension of German influence in Danubia
need threaten no collision with us.
Like the domestic structure of every modern
State in this dissolvent age, Europe, too, is
bound to change. The declaration of Munich
and the Anglo-Italian pact, together, mean that
at last there is a fair prospect that to Europe,
as to Britain, change will come without
explosion.


ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED.
§t, 15!
\m\
mUm
WMM
M
m
CAPITAL PAID UP
£4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) £4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX ; OWEN E. FRIEND ;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
LONDON OFFICE: 18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD ST., E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS: THE BANK OF ENGLAND,
WESTMINSTER BANK, LTD., BARCLAY’S BANK,
LTD., NATIONAL PROVINCIAL BANK. LTD.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES THROUGHOUT
NEW SOUTH WALES. VICTORIA, SOUTH AUST.,
QUEENSLAND, AND AT CANBERRA, A.C.T,
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Cahlp Address: “THERMOSTAT,” ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY AND LONDON
LL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
more control over it. He keeps it short of money so
as to have a full check over its activities. The Gov-
ernment of France is, as it were, always being cut off
with a shilling by its people.
This may have been a good principle in the days
after 1870 when all Frenchmen were frightened the
monarchs might come back to the throne, and wanted
to keep them out at any cost. But it is very dangerous
now.
Mr. Jack-in-the-box Eden.
[Latest cabled speculation on the political future of
Mr. Eden has him as prospective leader of a new party
composed of odds and ends of other parties. In the
article here condensed from London “Daily Mail”
Lord Killanin suggests that Mr. Eden’s prospects as a
leader are slight.]
Mr. Anthony Eden has popped up again. People
are talking about him leading a Centre party. I don’t
think he will ; and here are my reasons.
Mr. Eden resigned from the Cabinet in March.
Reason: he did not believe the moment was ripe for
Anglo-italian talks.
After making his exit speech he remained silent
until after the Prime Minister’s third return from
Germany. Then up he got and spoke. Some said that
he was trying to get back into the Government, for
he spoke ol national unity ; yet the best form of
national unity is not to attack those in power. And
that is what he did.
When the House met again the other day it de-
bated and passed Mr. Eden’s bete noire —the Anglo-
Italian Agreement. Up popped Mr. Eden again and
delivered an attack on the Government. He received
cheers from Mr. Churchill and Mr. Churchill’s new
friends on the other side of the House.
When Mr. Eden made this speech the House was
full. Mr. Eden rose again when the House was talk-
ing about the King s Speech. The indicators and bells
all over the buildings which tell who is speaking
announced Mr. Eden. Instead of another rush to hear
him like the one that occurred the week before
members just glanced up from what they were doing
(writing letters for free postage or having a whisky
and soda) and then got on with their jobs again.
In fact Mr. Eden spoke to a House one-third full.
The reason was that after Mr. Eden’s last speech the
House had lost interest.
And what did members think of the speech?
The Opposition was pleased, because it saw in the
speech Mr. Eden leading a centre bloc. Though the
Opposition does not like united fronts, it knows well
a swing to the Left is a swing towards it. The Gov-
ernment was also pleased, for in the speech Mr. Eden
talked about national voluntary unity, calling for sac-
rifices from all. And that is just what the Govern-
ment'believes.
Strongest of the rumors and reports that followed
was that which said Mr. Eden was going to lead a
Centre party enlisted from Left and Right. But,
remember, Mr. Eden has Lord Baldwin as chief ad-
viser, and Lord Baldwin is probably pushing Mr. Eden
back towards the Government.
“My dear Anthony, if you want to be Prime
Minister, I. think you had better join in with the boys
again,” is what ex-Prime Minister Baldwin probably
says. But it depends on whether the “boys” on the
front bench want Mr. Eden back.
They say: “But why, Mr. Eden, if you believed
all these things, have you not spoken sooner and
louder? You have remained in comparative silence
since you resigned ; surely, Mr. Eden, if you believed
in unity you could have done more talking within the
Cabinet rather than sulking in silence outside?”
I do not think Mr. Eden will lead a Centre party,
because he does not want to, and is still politically
immature—and thus would not get the confidence of
the old hands.
Swaffer on the New Journalism.
I In this article, condensed from “World Press News,”
Hanner Swaffer is dealing with journalism in Britain.
Whether or not his remarks apply exclusively to British
journalism readers can decide for themselves.]
When, twenty years ago, the war ended, journal-
ism was respected in the land. To-day it is discredited.
I little thought I would live to see, as I did the
other day, that the Speaker of the House of Commons
had said, at a public meeting: “It is one of the great
dangers ol the modern State for the public to take
its ideas from what it reads in the newspapers.
This is a cheap and nasty vyay of forming a judgment
on anything. The great danger is that people should
be turned out, by mass production, without soul and
without mind, like sausages from a machine.”
Yes, and twenty years ago, British journalism
was something that was essentially British. To-day, it
is becoming more and more a childish imitation of
the more stupid forms of American journalism, from
which it buys silly features dumped on it at cheap
rates.
We buy our comic strips from America. We buy
our short stories from America. And, strangely
enough, the worst offenders are people who boast
that they are Protectionists!
We have allowed to pass an Official Secrets Act
and a Sedition Act, both intended to muzzle our activi-
ties. Now when, too late, we squeal, we are in such
a position that, because of Public Intruders hired by
newspapers, and the flapdoodle and lies printed, day
after day and week after week, people, when we raise
a protest, merely reply, “Well, don’t you think you
have asked for it?”
And frankly, what, to make this “a land fit for
heroes,” has the British press done in the past twenty
years? On the whole, it has attacked all the people
who would build better towns and applauded all the
people who wanted to spend more money on guns.
What has it done to keep the world safe for democracy
in the last twenty years? Only a small part of it has
done anything.
It has stunted. It has tried to make a saint of
the Unknown Soldier for two minutes a year, and, for
the rest of the year, it has encouraged a drift that may
mean another Unknown Soldier soon.
It has invented, in journalism, a new kind of
sissydom. It has hired bleaters and sob sisters. It
has made gods and goddesses of film stars, most of
them mere pinheads in private life, crimped the hair
of band-leaders who all play the same tune, all day
and all night long, until three weeks later the tune is
entirely forgotten.
It has hailed crooners who can’t sing. It has
egged the country to an orgy of betting. And it
prints—oh, my God! —“astrology.”
No one reads its leading articles. Few believe its
Parliamentary reports. And when, two years ago I
read on the posters, “Fall of Madrid”—well, it hasn’t
fallen yet.
Britain as Democracy’s Bulwark.
(Though some U.S.A. criticism of Britain after
Munich has been bitter enough, there has been a huge
amount ol generous and appreciative comment, too,
on the lines of this extract from the “Christian Science
Monitor, which was republished in London “Times."]
As more of the background of the recent crisis
comes to light it becomes clearer that the United
States, although possibly more tully informed by news-
and radio, did not get the full import of the
situation as it was felt by the millions who stood in the
immediate shadow of war threats. And particularly is
it necessary for Americans to try to understand what
has happened in Britain. For even the Anglophobes
must recognise that the United States’s world position
is determined principally by her relations with Britain
relations largely fixed by tradition and trade regard-
less of any personal or party preferences.
If proof of this were needed it is quickly found
in the new demands for American arms increases.
Feeling a new sense of being unprotected, Americans
see more clearly how great a bulwark Britain has been
not only to democratic ideals but even to America’s
place in the world. They understand now why the
American Navy could be shifted from the Atlantic to
the Pacific. They see that to-day, as in 1823, British
power is helpful in support of the Monroe Doctrine.
Surely it is unjust for those who have been un-
willing to risk even a small measure of co-operation
in defence of democracy to indulge in thoughtless
remarks about those who have stood in the front
lines. And it is unwise when the need for co-opera-
tion is increasing. If there is need for understanding
and appeasement as between the democracies and
the dictators, clearly there is need as between the two
greatest democracies. We believe the American people
are making an effort for such understanding, and
that, as they come into closer touch with the situa-
tion in Europe, events will carry them—within certain
limits —to a more active co-operation with Britain.


ds
7TI
AT THE.
TIVOLI
f
“SNOW WHITE” in the Flesh.
(Adriana Caselotti.)
and New Oversea All Star Acts.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: Cent. 928-929.
Last Days
THE CHANG
SHOW
EMILE !
BOREO |
PEG LEG
BATES
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: M 6835.
—The RIGHT Spirit for Your Festivities-
Daniel CRAWFORDS
Genuine OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
THE BEST SCOTLAND EVER DISTILLED
SUNDRY
SHOWS
At the Ballet.
With crowds, winds, monsters, vam-
pires, witches, ghouls, spectres, furies,
monks and devils, the “Symphonie Fan-
tastique” of Berlioz, as presented by the
Ballet for its second week at Sydney
Royal, was heroically “fantastique.” It
was ballet, with the ideal music for
ballet, flat out to show what ballet can
do.
Possibly because the musician in his
green coat, being whirled about among
the creatures of his brain, looked melo-
dramatic, or because the furious fairies
looked more like a nightmare from
Burne Jones than from Berlioz, it left
the impression that in this instance ballet
can’t do as much as the music. When it
came to the execution scene the head
was fumbled away, whereas Sargent
awhile ago chopped it off very cleanly
in the music.
It was a dream rather than a night-
mare, but as a dream it was extraordi-
narily impressive. Baronova, floating
about in white as the unattainable love,
was at her best. It is easy enough for a
dancer to look a vision of loveliness, but
Baronova’s portrait of uncapturable love-
liness meant brilliant artistry.
“Protee,” which followed the Sym-
phony, an infinitely less elaborate affair,
was a complete success. Against a firm,
colorful background—a temple by the
sea—Protee, the sea-god, dances
a group of maidens ; they try to catch
him, and he leaps back to the sea. Dolin
was the sea-god, and danced with splendid
vitality, but it was the bright pattern
woven by the others that made his per-
formance so effective. The choreography
was by David Lichine, who is with the
company, and the ballet, as an indication
of the direction which the art is likely
to take, is doubly interesting. It had not
the enchantment of “Les Sylphides,” but
it did have the fire and vigor of “Le
Coq d’Or” without any of the flummery
attached to that spectacle.
“Papillons,” chosen to open the even-
ing, was an exact choice. The dancers,
in white frocks with a yellow cape-effect,
were as pretty as one could wish, and
the ballet itself, not pretending to be
anything more, was equally pretty. It is a
mechanical little piece, yet the mere
weaving of the color patterns is highly
attractive.
“Prince Igor,” the concluding number,
was a disappointment. There is spectacle,
and there are pleasing dances, but after
the wild transports of the Symphony the
spectacle fell flat, and the dances lacked
the perfection of form that was “Protee’s’
triumph.
“Bessie Bosch.”
In “Bessie Bosch,” a play translated
from the German of Peter Niki and pre-
sented by the New Theatre at Melbourne
Princess, Bessie’s sweetheart has been in
a Nazi concentration camp for five years
for being an illegal political worker.
Bessie (Catherine Duncan) is informed
by a Communist party leader (Eric
Reimann) that he is to be executed at
daybreak, and there is a tense moment
when the prison bell tolls six and the
girl knows the axe is falling. And be-
fore this happens there is a great deal
of conversation about the wickedness of
the Nazis.
What struck present showman was
that if a Nazi had written the play there
would be a Nazi in a Red concentration
camp awaiting execution, a Nazi girl
would be wringing her hands in despera-
tion and a Nazi illegal political worker
(illegal in Russia but legal in Germany)
would be talking about Red wickedness.
Critics said it was wonderfully subtle
propaganda. In present showman’s view
it wasn’t propaganda at all, but sheer
sentimentality. If you are going to propa-
gandise you’ve got to propagandise some-
thing, and that something must be an
idea. There is no idea in “Bessie Bosch,”
only assertions, which makes the title
singularly appropriate.
The writer asserted that the Nazis were
exploiters. A Nazi would say that Com-
munists were exploiters. Neither would
say that he believed in exploitation.
In the absence of any discussion as to
what exploitation is, the play was as
dead as a doornail, and the audience went
home as cold as frogs and just as en-
lightened as if they had been to the
Parliament across the street, where, amid
scenes of disorder, politicians had
been spending the evening calling each
“Y' see, sir, his father played the Count of Monte Cristo."
other names over the night-trotting
bill.
Propaganda plays seen in Melbourne
lately could be boiled down to a simple
dialogue like this:
“You’re a scoundrel!”
“I’m not!”
“You are!”
“I’m not!”
“Y’are!”
“Not!”
(Curtain.)
“Girls’ School”
Showing at Sydney Embassy, and
likely to start an army of schoolgirl
flappers marching on that address, this
is all about an awfullay posh finishing
school for the progeny of the very uppah
stratah of sassiety.
Such dear, dear children, y’know, and
all terribly excited about graduation day
or something. Then one naughty girl
stayed out all night and prefect saw her
coming through the window at sun-up
and had to report her. Not that she
wanted to, mind you —it was quaite a
harmless escapade really and she really
was such a sweet cheild ; just pure exuber-
ance of youth and love’s young dream
and all that sort of thing. Nothing else
at all.
Prefect was scholarship and not quaite
the thing, y’know, and all the girls were
awfullay indignant about the whole bal-
lay affair. Ostracised the poor pre., in
fact. Then teacher wrote to naughty
cheild’s parents and asked them down,
but they were separated —■ not quaite
divorced, y’know—and daughter was
nearly desperate lest domestic affray be
aired at school.
Pre. saved the ballay old bacon by
uniting couple before they reached
school; but nobody knew except papa,
and poor pre. was still beyond the pale.
Then papa sent orchids to both daugh-
ter and pre. and daughter said hers were
pinched, then daughter was going to
elope, then pre. was going to light out
for home with honest young plumber,
then sweet young teacher thought her
bug-hunting boy friend would fade for
Stockholm without her.
It really was an awfullay messy situa-
tion ; a ballay stinkah, in fact; all those
young lives threatened with disaster and
the possibility of the school’s good name
being smirched. And then, just when
the ballay old clouds were blackest,
Hollywood came to the rescue and no
one was hurt and everyone was delighted
with the whole affair. Abso-ballay-lutelay
marvellous!
“The Live Wire”
Here have we been blowing all the
trumpets about the place in praise of the
great things they’re now doing in English
films “The Challenge,” “Owd Bob,”
“The Divorce of Lady X”—and then
they go and do this to us! And N at
Sydney State, where they’re usually con-
siderate.
It’s an extraordinary lapse; a film
that might have been made before the
English filmsmiths struck form. A poor
story, badly cast and most lamentably
acted.
Never mind. We’re tough. We can
take it.
And the other English picture on the
bill’s all right. It’s a programme for
stayers. If you’ve the stamina for last-
ing the distance you should come away
feeling fine. But you need to be fit.
“The Lady Vanishes.”
Those who won’t be unduly upset at
seeing Dame May Whitty approximately
strangled should like this Sydney State
hotchpotch of mystery, comedy, bang-
bang-bang and a little bit o’ lurv.
It should have special pull for any-
one who has a few cricket balls coursing
about in the bloodstream. The best of
the comedy, in which it’s extra rich, is
provided by a brace of Englishmen con-
cerned over a Manchester Test that’s
being played while they’re held up by
high State intrigue in some Ruritanian
corner of Europe. They’re a bright
comedy note all the way through,
enough to compensate even those who
may feel that the rest of the doings are
something of a waste of a good company.
What the film’s all . about is so com-
plicated that it would take from now till
the next war to give a clear account of it.
The first hint the audience gets that
there’s dirty broth brewing (apart from
the title) is when a large pair of hands
appear and throttle a chap who’s been
playing a flute without mercy outside a
wayside Ruritanian pubbery.
Inside the pub are herded a mixed
trainful held up by a slide of snow on
the line, including personable young
fellow and girl with whom he’s fated to
go into a clinch, the lady who’s fated to
vanish, the priceless pair of English
chappies, and a dozen or two others.
Very good English comedy made out of
the business of bedding ’em all down for
the night.
Next day snow’s shovelled away and
they’re all off on the train together, and
there most of the action takes place. It
begins with lady vanishing and those who
clearly know very well she was there
swearing black and blue they’d never
set eyes on her. The truth is that there s
very dirty work at the crossroads, and
doings get brisk and lively before it's
through.
Film introduces Michael Redgrave.
Somewhere about 6ft. in his socks. Has
a way with him. Quite a passable
specimen.
“Too Hot to Handle”
Clark Gable, Myrna Loy.
M.-G.-M. offering at Sydney St. James,
even more boisterously funny than the
films in which this pair have lately been
appearing. It’s all
the funnier for
being associated
on the same bill
with one of those
so-called “news”-
reel concoctions
without which no
current talkie
house show is
complete.
A little while
back these con-
coctions were,
like the dailies,
roasting Musso.
in royal style. For
some time now
they’ve been giv-
ing Musso. a rest
and Hitler curry.
They’re coming
to Australia in
shoals.
Australian films
meanwhile are
rarer than Wel-
co m e Nuggets,
and so though
there are spurts
of talk now and
then —is any Gov-
ernmental action
to give the Aus-
tralian -made
article a helping
hantl. “Too hot
to handle” would
seem to be a fair
enough label for the general Govern-
mental attitude in this matter.
The Gable-Loy comedy is a broad
burlesque of the news-reel game. It
shows news-reel makers on the job ; the
opening sequence, having to do with the
ingenious art of faking “war scenes” in
China, is such a rich comment that it
would need to be shown only now and
then to knock the stuffing out of all film
propaganda.
That is one great thing to Hollywood’s
advantage—it frequently looks at itself
and bursts out laughing. Here, too, it
does so in a style to set everybody else
laughing. The comedy ranges from
China to the news-reel people’s head-
quarters and down into the wilds of
South America. Gable is a dabster at
such parts as the hardboiled news-reel
photographer, and Miss Loy makes a
fine foil for him. It is comedy of the
boisterous, riotous kind, full of vigorous
action all the way, and with comedy act-
ing by supports every bit as good as that
of the principals.
“Gallant Defender,” at Sydney Capitol,
has the merit of being a straightforward
and unpretentious Western claiming no
connection with any “epic page” in the
history of Gahd’s Own. It gets straight
down to a simple yarn of conflict be-
tween cattlemen and settlers come to slice
land from their holdings. Into the piece
rides Mr. Charles Starrett to figure
largely and well throughout the rest of
the doings, until, with much bang-bang-
bang and hard ridin’, villain is disposed
of and defrauded goil returned to her
ranch and a clinch.
“Fugitives for a Night,” at Sydney
Embassy, is Hollywood shedding a few
crocodile tears over the worn-out actor


Limerick Competitions
NINTH COMPETITION
£5O Prizes
The advertisement of the Ninth
“Bulletin” Limerick Competition
appears in this issue on Page 67
(inside back cover).
Information concerning the
Eighth and Tenth Competitions is
included.
Newington College
• Preparatory School for Boys
STANMORE,
Est.
dsf
1863.
One of the Great Public Schools of N.S.W.
Provides the ideal Home-School for boys
of all ages, from Sub-primary to Leaving
Certificate Honors.
Education—Recreation—Character-building
New Preparatory School, to accommodate
1 5 0 scholars, and embodying the maximum
of modern teaching aids and domestic
comforts, will receive young boys from next
term.
Prospectus and all particulars from:
P. R. LE COUTEUR, M.A. (Melb. et Oxon.),
Headmaster.
New term commences February 7, 1939.
’Phone: LM5355.
&m
m
m
«9
ma
ORIGINAL! DISTINCTIVE!
WARMLY PERSONAL!
The Forms and Envelopes are neatly
designed and attractively coloured.
The usual low telegraph charges apply.
CHRISTMAS
W NEW YEAH
TELEGRAMS
No Flies
in the
SOUp
I
Or
Anywhere
else
m
&
%
V
|IF YOU USE|
IMSECTIBANE
For Fleas on Dogs, Lice on Poultry, Thrips
in the Rooms; IN FACT, for killing all
1.N.5.E.C.T.1.8.A.N.E
on Roses, Flies
Insects, use
theme. One actor goes up, another
comes down, a producer is moidered, and
there’s a lot of tearing about the country-
side in high-powered cars until the young
chap who’s mixed up in it all throws in
the towel and buys a hamburger stall.
Bantock in Sydney.
Sir Granville Bantock made his first
Sydney appearance as a conductor at
the N. S. Wales Con.’s monthly orches-
tral concert, the last of this year’s series,
his part in the proceedings being the
direction of two of his own composi-
tions, the choral poem “Sea Wanderers”
and the “Hebridean Symphony.”
Sir Granville arrived in Sydney on
Tuesday and the concert occurred on
Thursday, so there was not much time
for rehearsals. The “Wanderers” wan-
dered a little more than the composer
intended, and there were some dire in-
strumental tangles in the symphony, not-
withstanding which a very fair idea was
given of the compositions.
But both works require and deserve
less hurried preparation. Bantock’s
melodic gifts are comparable to those
of Elgar; he is as adept in suggesting
the northern British atmosphere as
Sibelius is in putting Finland’s crags and
fiords into music, and his scores, particu-
larly where, as in the symphony, rude
dissonances are employed, require a
good deal of study. The Con. orchestra’s
congenial playing of Haydn’s “London”
Symphony under Dr. Bainton’s baton
underlined the moral that a band does
better under one competent master than
under a procession of conductors, how-
ever eminent.
Bright Bunch of Amateurs.
With the melodious frothery of “The
Chocolate Soldier” Mosman Musical
Society, showing at Cremorne Orpheum,
was well up to its customary mark of
tip-top amateur theatricals.
It’s a good piece for amateurs —color-
ful, tuneful, with better dialogue than
most of this bubbly stuff —and the players
grabbed everything that offered. Most
frequent bogey of musical amateurs —
lack of players with the right mixture
of vocal, histrionic and physical quali-
fications —was kiboshed with great gusto.
Besides producing capitally, Leo Darn-
ton, as Spiridoff, was an inspiration to
the amateur team. Well on his tracks
was Marie Ryan, as easy on the eyes
as is her soprano on the ears. Zanita
Cannis, a mainstay of the society, fussed
about effectively and warbled nicely
when opportunity allowed ; Etsi Scerri,
a more mature actress, showed up well,
particularly when opposite Darnton. Ron
Weaver and Sleath Lowrey also in good
form, their occasional mild exaggeration
easily forgiven and forgotten in the
general superficiality of the whole in-
consequential concoction.
There were others—scores of ’em, in
fact—got up in all colors of the rain-
bow, dancing and singing as though that
was all they ever had done and all they
ever wanted to do. With limited scope
the chorus was outstanding, the finale of
the second act the finest thing in the
show. Ballet also good in a fleeting
appearance, and- orchestra in fine fettle
under the baton of Sam White.
ARTBURSTS.
Sydney
“Nothing over ten guineas” is the
slogan of the Christmas exhibition at
Rubery Bennett’s galleries. Yet it’s a
show widely representative of the best
of Australian art, old and new.
There are oils or water-colors by Tom
Roberts, A. H. Fullwood, Charles Bryant,
Percy Lindsay, Syd Long, H. A. Hanke,
Lister-Lister, Albert Sherman, J. W.
Tristram, C. F- S. Tindall, Howard
Barron, Lance Solomon, M. J. McNally,
Thea Proctor, Alan D. Baker, J. Silvana
and others, pen-drawings by Norman
Lindsay, and monotypes by Tom
Garrett.
Contributors to an etching section are
Lionel Lindsay, Syd Long, Percy Leason
and T. Friedensen, fortified by English
work bearing such signatures as W.
Walcot, W. L. Wyllie and Joseph Gray.
R. Rajola makes a display at the same
galleries of his exquisite hand-cut cameos.
Prices range from three to 50 guineas.
Upstairs is a selection of color prints
and etchings from the Vienna Graphic
Arts Society, including examples by
Bresslern-Roth, Maasmann, Alois Kolb,
Joseph Pennell, Frank Brangwyn and Igo
Poetsch. Price range is one to seven
guineas.
Sydney’s Collegium Musicum proposes
to perform Paul Hindemith’s Christmas
operetta, “The Living Marionette,” at St.
James’s Hall, for a short season com-
mencing December 17. The operetta
was performed last year with much
success.


sdf
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling Ust Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
sd
fds
INVEST THIS MODERN WAY
By Buying FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES you secure a “spread” for your
I money over 20 leading Companies known through-
out Australia. You also obtain a yield of over
5 % p.a., potential capital appreciation and trustee
safeguards through the Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 is yours on request to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A'CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A'CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A'CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Jimmy Munro, who rode Windbag in
one of the greatest of Melbourne Cup
races, has announced his retirement from
the saddle, and at Canterbury Park on
Saturday Sydney punters nearly lost
his brother Darby, who has become their
idol.
Darby was engaged for Roginer,
favorite in the Flying Welter, for which
there were 15 starters. At the home turn
—scene of more than one accident—he
had her fourth on the rails and going
well. As he began to urge her forward,
the mare moved out, and, as Munro
graphically put it, “she clipped Harlowe’s
heels and crashed.” In falling she brought
down Miss Commond (Shean), Night of
Love (Cracknell), Correct (Harvey) and
Disalto (Jones). Night of Love, Correct
and Disalto and the jockeys were soon
up, being no more than shaken; but
Munro and Shean lay where they fell
and their mounts were obviously in a
bad way.
Munro and Shean were carried to the
ambulance-room, and thence to hospital.
Shean suffered a collarbone fracture and
other injuries, and will be out of action
for several weeks. It was thought at first
that Munro had had ribs broken, but this
was proved to be wrong: “slight concus-
sion and contusions” was the report on
Monday. Both lads, of course, had very
narrow escapes. Miss Commond gal-
loped a furlong with a broken leg and
had to be destroyed, and Roginer, though
still on four legs, will race no more.
The accident —which, of course, will
have to be inquired into —took all the
heart out of most of those gazing on the
race. Moaenza (7 to 1) won by a head
from the second favorite, Royal Ensign
(4 to 1), with Some Boy (20 to 1) a fairly
close third. Bad at the barrier, as usual,
Moaenza was hurdled off, and Royal
Ensign’s trainer growled that she was on
the rfiove when the barrier rose and thus
“got a fly.” This the starter denied.
Unafraid is a lightweight with a chance
in the Summer Cup. In the Canterbury
Handicap he seemed never off the bit,
and in the end he beat Masterpiece and
Cid by lengths. He commenced smartly,
took charge half a mile from home, and
then cleared out, dropping the pace-
maker, Morning Gift. He and Master-
piece were joint favorites at 5 to 2.
Unafraid is a six-year-old chestnut geld-
ing by Heroic-Shepherd Princess.
Eastern Maid, from Victoria, was
backed like a certainty for the first divi-
sion of the Park Stakes, winding up at
6 to 4. She was quickly in front, and
though she lugged out at the turns she
won convincingly from Gimme and
Haughty Clare. Eastern Maid is a four-
year-old by Eastern Monarch-Ingodina.
The second division proved a soft snap
for Moaveil, who was favored with a
nice run on the rails. The pony Ken-
tucky and High Dividend filled the places.
As the race was run, neither had any
chance with Moaveil, whose price was
fives; but High Dividend missed the
jump, and was badly placed. She finished
strongly.
Panrose had run good races at War-
wick Farm and Rosehill. Though often
in the hands of the vet., he looked trained
to the minute for the Ashbury Handi-
cap, and was backed from 5 to 2 to 5 to
4. He was out by himself at the top of
the straight, and Friar’s Switch and
Oration were of no use to him at the
finish; but Oration was squeezed soon
after the start. Lucky Kid, whom Munro
was to have ridden, was hampered when
going for a run along the back and
dropped back.
Overbold won at Rosehill after lug-
ging badly. Repeating the performance
at Canterbury, he won in the first divi-
sion of the Two-year-old after having
been backed from 5 to 2 to 7 to 4. Bel
Oiseau, having his first start, gave a
promising display in finishing second;
the pacemaker, Grand Billy, was a close
third. Reading, raced by Gordon Lus-
combe and F. P. J. Manusu, of Men-
dooran, made no mistake in the second
division. Bookmakers were not keen on
laying him, and the price at the close was
11 to 8 on. Reading led throughout,
beating Miss “Lorna Doone’s” Prospector
—the makings of a good colt—and
Gaelic Temple. Prospector moved away
slowly and raced on the outside for the
first half-mile.
There were 12,000 people at Canter-
bury. The club has spacious non-
proprietary plans, and is raking in
members at £3 3s. a time.
* * * *
The A.J.C. will race at Warwick Farm
to-day and again on Saturday. On that
day the Kirkham Stakes will be contested,
and as the Sydney two-year-olds look a
very good lot, with nothing standing out,
it should be a capital race. At this time
of the year, Warwick Farm form is
generally a pretty good guide to results
at the bigger Randwick meetings at
Christmas and in the New Year.
$ ijc ie
Brisbane has a new board of stewards,
and already it has shown that it is no
respecter of persons. The Q.T.C. raced
at Eagle Farm on Saturday, and after
the first division of the Trial Handicap
the stewards questioned the running of
Graceful Mover, owned by P. J. O’Shea,
the Q.T.C. chairman, and Dr. Power, a
member of the committee. Graceful
Mover, who was ridden by Hill, started
at 5 to 1 in a field of 15, and came in
last. The parties were both interrogated:
Dr. Power said he had put £ll4 on the
colt, and the chairman intimated that
his wager was £10 —“a very big bet for
me.” Afterwards the stewards declared
themselves satisfied that everything was
in order.
* * * *
Ballarat Turf Club opened its Cup
meeting on Wednesday at the Dowling
Forest course, where Adam Lindsay
Gordon rode over fences and many
noted gallopers were prepared in bygone
days by Tommy Wilson, Bob Howie (of
Suwarrow fame), Alick Taylor and James
Scobie.
Of these trainers Scobie alone remains
in the flesh. His removal of residence
from Miners’ Rest to Flemington spelt
the end of Ballarat as a really important
racing centre. But disintegration may be
said to have begun with the death of
such sportsmen as Martin Loughlin and
Robert Orr.
However, the turf flag is kept flying
at Ballarat by enthusiastic lovers of
galloping contests, and the attendance at
last week’s meeting, which extended over
two days, was quite satisfactory. Punters
did not fare so well as at Moonee Valley
on the previous Saturday.
David, winner of the Sydney Cup of
1923, sired both first and second horses
in the Hurdle Race on Wednesday,
Frisco (threes) scoring easily from
David’s Joy (9-to-4 favorite). Frisco be-
longs to R. Wilson, a Melbourne finan-
cier who is fond of jumpers. Wilson
won a number of events over fences with
Montargis, a castoff from the stable of
“S. A. Rawdon.”
Backers were woefully astray in the
Maiden Plate. They supported Fort
Haven down to 5 to 2, with sixes “bar
one” on offer. Winner turned up in a
Manfred mare, Two Lights (12 to 1),
with Princess Agnes (also at twelves)
and Parilla in the minor places.
The Greenfield Handicap, chief item
on the opening day’s programme, was
regarded as a certainty for Ted Temby’s
Sir Grey, who had been successful in
Hannan’s Handicap at Kalgoorlie and
registered other victories after his re-
turn from W.A. At no stage did Sir
Grey look like bringing home the bacon.
Starting at fours, The Decoration
(Great Star-Loveliness) romped home in
advance of Wheat Slump and Adulis.
The Decoration it was who was second
to Lady Montague in the V.R.C. Mani-
fold Stakes, for which she was quoted
at 100 to 1.
Loveliness, dam of The Decoration,
originally belonged to the late Agar
Wynne, who conducted a stud in the
Ballarat district. Posthumous honor as
a breeder also came to Wynne through
Shining Star taking the Highweight
Handicap. This mare is by Thrice from
Pastry, and runs back to Apple Pie, with
whom Tom Payten was so unlucky in
the spring of 1910. Apple Pie was placed
that year in the Caulfield Cup, Mel-
bourne Cup and Williamstown Cup.
Harold Skidmore, after a long spell
of ill-luck, did Steve Murphy a splendid
turn by capturing the Three-year-old
Handicap on Munificent, who figured at
10 to 1. But MacShortodds didn’t have
matters entirely his own way, as the last
race —the Frederick Brawn Handicap—
resulted in Brown Ben (7-to-2 favorite)
cleverly beating Albany and Verbul.
Manfred and Windbag four-year-olds
are winning heaps of races this season.
The Ballarat Cup went to Bell Buoy, a
four-year-old son of Windbag-Turret.
Tailed off after they had gone four fur-
longs, Bell Buoy went so fast over the
other six that at the finish he was two
or three lengths clear of the second horse,
Carra Rice, Beau Roi being third. Bell
Buoy, who went out at fours, is owned
by A. E. Hughes, a native of Ballarat.
Bell Buoy is trained in Melbourne by
H. Howick, who used to ride over fences
for the late Harry McCalman, of Man-
fred and Whittier fame. Turret, the dam,
is by Crowdennis (imp.) from the M.L.-
bred mare, Belfry, who had Robinson
Crusoe blood and ran back to Chester’s
sister, Silver Bell.
The Ballarat Turf Club made a good
profit over its two days’ meeting, not-
withstanding that £5OO and a £-5 trophy
had been allotted for the Cup. Knight
Alan Currie, chairman of the V.K.C.,
presented the trophy to A. E. Hughes.
Bell Buoy’s victory followed on that
of Albany, another locally-owned horse,
in the Jasper Coghlan Handicap. Albany
originally was in the Flemington stable
of James Scobie. Starting at fours, he
was lucky to win, as Crowsaint (6 to 4)
swung round when the barrier lifted and
lost half a furlong.
When H. Dukes came to Melbourne
two years ago from Queensland he
brought Pamelus and a younger brother
of that celebrity, named Bull Tax. The
form of Bull Tax for a long period was
poor, and Dukes passed him on to W.
Bellchambers, a provincial trainer, for
whom he won the Novice Handicap at
Ballarat. Bull Tax just squeezed home.
He never will rise to the Pamelus
standard.
Bob Bailey rode Bell Buoy at Ballarat.
His success there was followed up two
days later by a winning treble at Epsom
—the juvenile race on Quite True (fours),
Three-year-old Handicap on National
(sixes) and Tanti Handicap on Sir Robin
(fives). This former Gippslarid jockey did
a lot of lightweight riding for Jack Holt
when he first took up residence in Mel-
bourne.
• • • • • *
Epsom Cup triumph of Hautboy
astounded punters, who, consequent on
his Moonee Valley failure a week before,
allowed Bill Burke’s candidate to go out
at 10 to 1. Apart from the stake- —£250
and a £25 trophy —W. P. Mein, his
owner, won nothing over Hautboy.
Instead of striving to win all the way,
as he had done at the previous week-
end, Elliot kept Hautboy in the wake
of Buzalong until three furlongs from
home. As soon as Buzalong “punctured”
Elliot dashed to the front. Hautboy
scored comfortably from Young Idea
(11-to-8 favorite) and Demotic.
Roy Shaw withdrew Jakin because he
reckoned Young Idea to be unbeatable
and he didn’t want minor-place money
at the expense of increased weight in
future handicaps. The irony of it —from
Shaw’s viewpoint—was that Jakin had
run away from Hautboy at Moonee
Valley.
It sounds incredible that Buzalong, the
Caulfield Cup winner, should be beaten
out of a place in a field of six at his
next start. Owner-trainer Leftwich
admitted beforehand that Buzalong might
have been better if he had been give
more fast galloping. The V.R.C. Bagot
Handicap on New Year’s Day is his
main objective just now.
Fort Regal’s spring failures were a
great blow to P. B. Quinlan, and that
trainer had a further setback when Maid
of Athens (9-to-4 favorite) spoilt a win-
ning chance by running out wide at the
home bend in the juvenile event. This
sister to Balkan Prince may make amends
before long.
Left in control when Maid of Athens
ran out, Quite True (Winooka-Nina
Blankney) immediately put the issue be-
yond doubt. She had been backed from
fours to threes. Joe Matthews, the Syd-
ney bookmaker, bred Quite True. Her
dam was raced in Sydney by Bill Tasker,
for whom in one week she scored twice
on the flat and once over hurdles.
Jack Holt paid Frank Dummett, the
crosscountry jockey, a high compliment
in entrusting him with the Epsom Cup
mount on Young Idea. Though he failed
then Dummett came to light in the last
event, the Parkdale Welter, winning on
Spray (9-to-4 favorite), a stablemate of
Hautboy.
Heroic’s Pride (5 to 4), National (sixes)
and Sir Robin were other well-backed
winners. Heroic’s Pride easily landed the
Hurdle Race, National beat Delvino by
half a neck in the Three-year-old Handi-
cap, and Sir Robin led from end to end
in the Tanti Handicap, Finch running
second and Coronation Day third. As
much as 15 to 1 was laid against Sir
Robin in parts of the ring.
(Continued on page 62.)
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Flying Handicap: Bodley Head
or Eastern Maid ; next, Moaveil.
Milperra Handicap: Improve-
ment ; next, Oration.
Farm Welter: Bodley Head or
Aladdin ; next, Gilla.
Kirkham Stakes: Merry Smile;
next, Waireka.
Camden Handicap: Bradford ;
next, Bodley Head.
December Handicap: Journal;
next, Spark.
Warwick Welter: Perimond;
next, Troy.
FOR ASCOT.
Lincolnshire Handicap: Finch ;
next, Coronation Day.
Berkeley Welter:'. Elmdale or
Gold Token ; next, Namakia.
Ascot Handicap: Jakin or Elm-
dale ; next, Keeping Watch.


COWLES <a DUNN
Winchester Boys’ and Girls’
Extension Frame Skate with
double ball-bearing steel rolls.
Price per pair 18/6
WINCHESTER MODEL 67.
.22-cal. single-shot, bolt-action, 271 n.
barrel, elevating rear sight. Adapted
for short, long and long-rifle regular and Super-speed
cartridges. Price 47/6
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
TV INCH£S TER
No. 69121, Five-cell Standard Focussing
Searchlight. Full Chrome Finish. Range, 1500 ft.
Complete with Batteries. Price . 22/6
PYRA-SHELL CAST BOX.
3£in. x £in. deep. Two felt pads.
3/6.
m
FOLDING LANDING NET.
Automatically locks when thrown out.
Best quality Black Net, 30in. Black
Wood Handle, Nickel-plated Fittings,
Belt Clip, in Bag. Length extended,
39$in. Length folded. 27in. Price, 47/6
Telescopic Handle. Price 65/-
Jk
h '
m
i
Me
r
vUONa
«0(/
ums
L3S—KINGFISHER DOUBLE
TAPERED TROUT LINE.
Made of pure silk. Plaited solid.
Thoroughly waterproofed under pres-
sure. Beautifully finished with a smooth
pliable surface. Tapered at both ends
so that it can be reversed when one
end has become worn or damaged.
30 yards.
Nos. 1 22/6, 2 25/-, 3 37/6, 4 30/-
WINCHESTER
Headlight
Lantern,
3-cell, 350 ft,
range.
HIGH GRADE
FIREARMS, AMMUNITION AND
FISHING TACKLE
71 King Street Sydney
f
WINCHESTER
.218 cal. BEE MODEL 65
Solid frame,
front sight,
grain hollow
.22 Hornet.
lever action, 7-shot repeater, 24in. round barrel, Lyman gold bead ramp
Winchester 08a rear peep sight, an integral part to breech, tires a 40-
point bullet at 2,S(»oft. per second, over 200 f.s. faster than the famous
Trice £l3/10/-
Carriuge Paid in N.S.W.
WINCHESTER MODEL 61.
.22-cal. Slide-action, Hammerless
Repeating ltifle. 24in. round tapered
barrel, for .short, long and long-rifle cartridges.
Weight, 511 b. Price £7
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
dsf
WINCHESTER MODEL 62.
.22-cal. Slide-action, Hammer-repeating
Rifle, 23in. round barrel, for short, long
and long-rifle. Price £5/5/-
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
b
WINCHESTER MODEL 63.
The “Speed King” ,22-cal. Automatic.
28in. round barrel; for long-riile
Super-speed cartridges only. Price £9/10/-
Carrluge Paid in N.S.W.
THE “ALL CLEAR” FLY BOX.
V • •
*\\
A ,1 1
Tlie “All Clear” Ply Box, made from heavy gauge “Pyrashell,” is
transparent throughout, very strong and extremely light, and should
it be dropped in the water it will float, thereby rendering the loss of
favorite patterns almost impossible. Size, 6in. x 34in. x Jin., with
four, six or eight compartments. Price 7/6 each^
*■ r
GILLIES’ “WATER GIPSY” FLY ROD.
Built of specially selected and hardened bamboo in three joints, with two tops, reinforced
suction ferrules, agate butt and end rings, “Tungsten" steel snake intermediate rings,
selected cedar reel seat with nickel silver fittings, transparent intermediate bindings.
Inside and outside cloth cases, aluminium case -to carry the whole rod. Length 9ft.,
weight uioz. Price £l2/10/-
WET
AND DRY
FLIES.
ds
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE POST FREE.
fds
New Winchester Model 37, Steel Bilt Single Barrel Shot
Gun, 12 gauge, 30in. barrel, full choke, chambered for
2|in. cartridges. Price 657-
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
Telegraphic Address:
“CODUN,”
SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 3388.
vJl
a
fsd
WINCHESTER
MODEL 67 JUNIOR.
.22-cal. single-shot, bolt-action, identical
with the regular Model 07 Kifie, except
tliut it has 201 n. barrel and shorter stock. Price, 47/6
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
yyl
WtHCffCSTM
SPOTLIGHT
£
MADE BY THE MAKERS OF IyJNCHLSTER. GUNS AND AMMUNITION
No. 6811, 2-cell, 9/6 each.
Winchester Telescopic Sights with high bases and mounts.
No. 3-2} power 50/-. Fitted to rifle 60/-
No. 5-5 power 65/-. Fitted to rifle 75/-
ALUMINIUM FLY BOX.
6 compartments 9/6
12 compartments 13/6
16 compartments 18/6
32 compartments 35/-
i
“ZIPP” FISHING BAG.
Made of Khaki Cotton Duck, with
two large and two small compart-
ments. One of the large compart-
ments has a detachable waterproof
lining; the other is closed by a
lightning fastener, whilst the two
smaller sizes are for fly boxes, etc.
Size 15in. x 12in. Price 35/-
NYMPHS
AND
BEETLES.
A A'
#
C AND D “SPORTSMAN” FLY
REEL.
With rustless steel liue guide. 3§in.
Weight. GJoz. In Silver, Grey or
Black. Price 50/-


HOW OLD IS AN
OLD BLADE . . ?
Once over the face and most blades think of
retirement, and in a week they’re sharp
enough for almost anything but shaving.
The Wilkinson Blade keeps going for 2 to
3 months even when the going’s rough be-
cause it is a full hollow ground blade—a blade
that has enough good steel in it to permit
of constant stropping—and the mekanized
self-stropping it gets in the Wilkinson
Razor is just right to renew that perfect edge
and give you a unique shaving comfort.
★
RA7OB In
Oak Cait
with two
Hollow
Ground
Blades
£VS/6
In Nickel-
plated Case 21/-(
InCbrome Case,
three Blades
and Strop. 27/6
1-D AY' set
with a blade tor
every day ol the
week - - 37/6
] HOLLOW GROUND BLADE ]
m
WILKINSON
ďs
Made in England by
The Wilkinson Cutlery Co. Ltd.
Obtainable from all Stotts
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1815 of 1938.
BETWEEN VIVIENNE LEYLAND PREN-
DREGAST Petitioner
And JAMES BRANXTON PRENDRE-
GAST Respondent.
TO JAMES BRANXTON PRENDREGAST
late of Tamworth in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VIVIENNE
LEYLAND PRENDREGAST has commenced
a suit against you in this Court and is apply-
ing for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause of excuse; and take notice that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the Twenty-fourth day of February
one thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of November,
a.d. 1938.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
BRAYE & MALCOMSON, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The ideal pick-me-up!
CLAYTON’S
KOLA _
TONIC
A delightful beverage (with
minerals) ... as a liqueur . . .
or as a cocktail base.
AT ALL LEADING HOTELS.
Tobacco Stains
easily removed with
: -IN-ONE
I DENTAL CREAM
Tffg
(EMPIRES MILLIONS
o
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of
over 3 pounds of waste matter. When the
kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty and difficult. Instead of
being filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, pufflness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the same
quick relief they have been giving millions
for many years. If backache is_ bothering
you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN'S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
Mrt _ n< 4 Dn-f-fpr+v
•V* ¥ *
Richards Overpowers Sabatino
The Ron Richards v. Atilio Sabatino
return engagement at Sydney Sports
Ground began prettily, with a lightly
boxed opening round in which the only
punch that might have brought down a
bomber-class mosquito was a right Atilio
drove into Ron’s ribs. There was further
niceness of
in the next, Richards g g
vigorous punches, P st r»ieht lefts
and at least two P ea ® d . ‘
It was the Queens a y
tidy margin. . ,
Up to the fifth the battle cont n
brisk and snappy, Richards having some-
thing the better of it. In this round he
sent out a lightning right cross whi
took Sabatino high up, sending him a
couple of yards back across e ring,
nearly knocking him and leaving
with his left eye hors de comfort.
so, the next was a round of sp n
fighting, but from then on all t egg
went out of it till the tenth, wherein
Richards inflicted so much sha ng
damage that Atilio was beaten to a s a -
st *h- . .
Next to the main fact that Ron is just
now fighting in superlative style, disparity
of bulk seemed to have a good hand in
his easy win. The Puerto Rican is a
sculptor’s model and a nice boxer with it;
altogether a fine boy, and that’s just what
he looked like—a neat slip of a lad fight-
ing a solidly developed, burly man. Tip-
ping the beam at 11st. ilb., he was giv-
ing away to one who is, after all,
the Australian dual champion, and on
his present form well worthy of those
honors. The differen e
more ; in any case par lipr
enough. Compared wuh earlier
aP s e n ra S C 5 S S Nervous He
foughr ne°rvo n usly too ; backmoving
m ° St
,ng w,th Richards crowding the light on
°Untn the right cross in the fifth took
its toll, the bronze model made a fair
showing. That he has the right stuff in
him was established by his fighting better
in the sixth than in any other round. It
was a desperate effort, and but tor one
beautiful left landing a bit far back on
Richards’s jaw there might have been a
different end to it. As it was, Ron got
home a heavy left to the hitherto un-
damaged eye before the round ended,
and Atilio went back to his corner near
sightless and palpably beaten.
The so-far sterling scrap now went
into such a decline that the mob in the
bleachers, from where it must have
looked extremely dull, began counting
them out. Over these few rounds Saba-
tino was fighting not only a losing but an
avoiding fight. Richards, for his part,
was taking a breather, boxing nicely but
lightly. In the tenth he waded in, hit-
ting with all the power he had been re-
serving. When the bell went Sabatino was
i ust about out on his feet, stunned, and
staggered back to his corner a beaten and
broken boy. His party drawing attention
to his state, ref. Lacey inspected the ruin,
and in mercy called it a night.
Richards fought all the way with
supreme confidence. He was the aggressor
throughout, hitting cleanly with a ton of
power, his defence so sound that he came
out of it without a mark.
It was a glorious night about the
Sports Ground’s open-air ring, with a
crowd. Highlight of the long bill of
supporting bouts was a dandy scrap
between Dally Moran (Bst. 5?1b.) and
Billy Pullman (Bst. 31b.). This was a
spar kling encounter; fast, bright, beauti-
b,oxing Moran, still very boyish-
js t b e coming lad who has been
described here as a pocket model of Les
j) arc y jj e bas still a lot to learn in foot-
wor j c an( j defence, but he is a little tiger,
with the neatest trim for the makings of
a goo d fighter seen for years. Blocky,
upr i g ht, somewhat lacking in reach, he
starK j s his ground and fights back vim-
fuHy with both hands He took the ver .
ct rQm tbe muc h more experienced
p u ]j man by a great display of vigorous
fighting in the last of their eight rounds.
• • • • ■
At Carlton (Sydney) Stadium a night
later Aus. welter champion Hockey
Bennell broke his right hand in the second
round of his engagement with Joe John-
son, but was so much the better that he
carried on and won the fight with his left
through to the 12th, at which stage he
was given the verdict on a foul.
|ng and OlltS
Though Queensland defeated N.S.W.
in Brisbane in the opening Sheffield of
tbe season > ra i n robbed the winners of
t oints with a wicket to fall, N.S.W.
needed 27 to save an innings defeat. A
timely storm washed out play, and the
oi"t wfrffor
Qf , he five points a {| otted for an
‘'outright.”
Bananaland raised its first innings
score to 501 j and N.S.W. replied with
171 (Fitzpatrick 61, McCabe 35, Barnes
gs), Christ bowled in great form to
take 5.47, recalling Hornibrook with
his delivery and pace off the pitch.
j-j Fallon stumped and caught four men
Christ’s bowling and took a couple
more f rom other bowlers, with only 5
SU ndries given away,
.
The follow-on had yielded 303 for 9
when the storm came. Barnes made
121, and Minter, James, McCaffery and
pepper all added useful scores. This time
Christ took 2-56 and W. Tallon’s slow
leg-breaks were rewarded with 3 for 84.
Brother Don caught Barnes off Cook
and stumped White off Bill, making his
collection for the match 8 for 13 extras,
......
Queensland has never yet won outright
against N.S.W., though several wins on
the first innings are recorded. The
Bananaland total is the best since 1930,
when 687 was recorded against Ma.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: In spite of the cheering
showing made by the Queenslanders with
bat and ball against N.S.W. in Brisbane,
the fielding in the air and on the ground
remains ghastly. Every season the
northerners throw away matches through
this fault. It’s just a matter of sloppiness
and carelessness. Any fairly agile person
with good eyesight can make a sound
fieldsman of himself. Unfortunately, too
many players, having acquired a certain
skill in batting or bowling, consider that
quite enough. A help in developing field-
ing is the abolition of the practice net.
The very idea of the exertion involved
is, however, too much for the average
player.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: On December 16 Vic-
torians will meet the Queenslanders in
Melbourne. The Bananalanders are
taking down the side which beat N.S.W.,
plus a twelfth man. On the same date
in Adelaide South Australia and Ma will
engage. The Welshmen will have some
trouble shaking a team together in view
of the Queensland crash.
* * * *
“Shabash”: When, some months ago,
Grimmett was seen making in the direc-
tion of India a rumor got abroad that
he was to put in a term of coaching for
an Indian potentate. When he returned
a few days ago he said this was all bull.
He did, no coaching, and played little
cricket with rajahs or anyone else, but
just made holiday. He could not be
drawn on the subject of future big cricket,
but no doubt when in the future the
selectors of the next team to meet Eng-
land in Australia put the hard word on
him he will listen. In the meantime he
will show in the Sheffields, “if asked.”
* * * *
The Englishmen in South Africa con-
tinue to give the bowlers beans. They
beat the O.F.S. by an innings and 24 at
Bloemfontein: Free State, 171 and 260
(Verity 7-75); Englishmen, 6 for 412
(Yardley 182 n. 0., Bartlett 100). Yard-
ley and Bartlett seem likely to give
Australian bowlers something to think
over if they come out next year, as seems
certain.
* * * *
Four new men have gone into the
N.S.W. Sheffield team for the southern
tour, which begins with the match against
South Australia at Adelaide on Decem-
ber 16. O’Brien, Pepper, Minter and
Carmody have been dropped and
O’Reilly, Fingleton, Chipperfield and
Solomon have been substituted. Solomon
has already played in Sheffield cricket
and is a big scorer in grade. Chipperfield
has not earned his place, and Fingleton
goes in on his reputation. White, who
did nothing ir. Brisbane and shows no
sign of improving, might well have been
dropped.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: The N.S.W.C.A. has
decided on a benefit match for Kippax
and Oldfield in the 1939-40 season. Some-
one suggested that it be postponed to
the following year and be made a trial
match for picking the team to meet the
visiting Englishmen, Recognising, prob-
ably, the farcical affairs into which these
“trial” matches invariably degenerate,
the C.A. decided to stick to the original
date.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: The books had a
skinner at Killara when the Australian
professional golf champion was beaten
3 and 2 by Pickworth, of Manly, for the
N.S.W. assistant professional champion-
ship. Cremin has had a lot of important
golf recently, and has probably struck
a stale patch. His coming sea trip to
Manila should mend that.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: The Victorian golf
heads take a lot of trouble over their
proteges: caddies, professionals, amateur
youths of both sexes and veterans. This
week the annual greenkeepers’ champion-
ship was won by Leo Quigley, of Forest
Hills, with rounds of 78 and 81. Runner-
up was Parsons, of Yarra Yarra, who
had rounds of 83 and 85.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: A South Coast (N.S.W.)
player got under his ball so well that
it came straight up, and, cannoning off
his chin, lodged inside his shirt. He
took it out and dropped it, and the ques-
tion is how much he should be penalised.
Some say four strokes—two for hitting
himself and two for dropping an un-
playable ball. But others differ, and the
puzzler will probably have to go to St.
Andrews for judgment.
Racquet and Bawl
All the others fell by the wayside and
left the recently-returned Bromwich and
Quist to decide the N.S.W. singles cham-
pionship. It was over in straight sets,
6-2, 6-4, 6-1. Quist improved in the
second set, but he couldn t shake
Bromwich’s consistency. Hard to judge
on that showing whether Bromwich has
rounded out into the world’s best, as he
is credited with having done. Certainly
his service—still not first-class —has bene-
fited from the D.C. trip.
With Quist he took the doubles title
also, 8-6, 6-2, 3-6, 10-8, after a rattling
good fight with their team-mates, Hap-
man and Schwartz. All play the doubles
game well. The most pleasing feature
was the good showing of Schwartz.
The women’s singles final was no more
exciting than the men’s event. Miss
Coyne downed Miss Hartigan, 6-2, 6-2.
Then, with Mrs. Hopman, she, too,
snared the doubles, 3-6, 6-3, 6-2, from
(he Misses Hattersley and Selwyn.
* * * *
"“Cut Shot”: When Quist threw away
a point in his Sydney match against
Crawford because he disagreed with the
umpire’s decision that a ball from Craw-
ford was out of court, he received the
usual approval from the flapper press
for his “chivalry” instead of being
towelled up for an insult to the umpire.
It is time the L.T.A. amended the rules
in this connection and penalised the
“chivalrous” one a couple of points for
flash ness.
Miscellaneous.
“Sprocket”: Hubert Opperman has
ridden from Adelaide to Sydney G.P.0.,
collecting one world’s and several Aus-
tralian records along the way. The
world’s record was the 1000 miles held
by Ferris, of England, which distance the
evergreen Opperman covered in 2 days
15hr. 37min. 30sec., or just over seven
hours better than the Englishman’s time.
Other new figures were for the Adelaide
to Sydney run, Adelaide-Melbourne, Mel-
bourne-Sydney and the Australian times
for 24 and 48 hours.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian, Westralian,
South Australian and Tasmanian Rugby
Unions have all declared in favor of
an Australian body. Delegates are to
be sent to Sydney to put the case of the
four States against the N.S.W. claim to
be the whole of Australia. It is to be
feared that their job will be as easy as
that of the folk who are for cutting out
six ridiculous Parliaments and replacing
them by one national Legislature.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
. /uuW /vrx/Y *~' ,
*x ‘i
Mo^ : '
“The Home of Good Saddlery.”
■ ■■
m m
No. 4 The
“C H A M P ION”
QUEENSLAND
FOLEY
SADDLE.
The best value
available in the
Commonwealth in high-
grade saddles. Long
mellow flaps, narrow
waist and poley pads
that afford a remarkable
grip. A clear saving of
50/-. Mounted, com-
plete, as shown.
£7/10/-
Made with sin. stock
pads, 5/- extra.
Send for a Free Copy of our illustrated
BOOK OF SADDLERY
Sent Free on Request.
FARRANTSfS:
387-389 Little Bourke St., Melb., C.l.
(Established 49 years.)
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Dry-feeding Sheep.
“Ghanam”: There are a number of
points about the dry-feeding of sheep
which need watching:
Don’t put sheep which have been on
hard grazing tack suddenly on to suc-
culent green feed, A result is hoven.
When feeding scrub fodders, in par-
ticular, watch for impaction.
Where oats and wheat are available as
whole feeds, choose oats, which have the
better husk content. Don’t feed oats by
scattering—that is the way to sand up
sheep.
The best grain for paddock feeding is
maize. It is easier for the animals to
pick up than the smaller grains, but is
not so well balanced as oats. With a.
little lucerne it is an ideal emergency
ration. Wheat also does best when fed
with lucerne.
The best single feed? Chaff —good
chaff —especially if the animals have to
be sustained for any length of time.
Flocks have been carried through on
grain alone, but it’s not a good bet.
Pig Breeds for Export.
“Yeno Ham”: If recommendations of
the Australian Meat Board conference
are followed pigbreeders will concen-
trate on Large Whites, Tamworths and
Berkshires (and their crosses) in pro-
ducing pork and bacon. Standardisation
is necessary if the most is to be made
of the export trade, as buyers must be
sure of getting regular supplies of uni-
form type and quality.
To give farmers a guide a model of
an “ideal export pig” will be exhibited
at agricultural shows.
Weights most suitable for the British
market are: Porkers, 601 b. to 801 b.;
baconers, 1351 b. to 1541 b. The Meat
Board has already stated that Australia’s
greatest chance appears to be in export
of baconers.
Because pig-raising is so closely iden-
tified with dairying it is suggested that
the best way of combating tuberculosis
is by its eradication from dairy herds;
also, that the Hammond system should
be used in judging carcass competitions,
and that carcasses showing softness of
fat or faulty texture be disqualified. State
Agricultural Departments are urged to
appoint instructors in pig-raising. At
present N.S.W. has five instructors and
Queensland three.
New Specific for Skeleton Weed?
“Albarmount”: After inspecting the
experiments on skeleton weed control at
Mrs. J. E. Lucas’s farm near Coolamon
(N.S.W.) (B. 9/11/’3B) the Agricultural
Department’s weeds expert, K. G. Carn,
has advised investigating the fertilising
agent, and the department’s chemists are
to examine the compound.
The farm was one of the first to be
infested with s.w., and wheat sown late
on stubble land heavily infested with
s.w., without super, but dressed with the
compound, produced a good crop of
hay. The untreated crop was extremely
poor. Perennial rye also responded so
vigorously to the treatment that it
appeared to be choking out the skeleton.
Dressings cost from 2s. 6d. to 4s. per
acre.
S. African Veld Grass.
“Geedee”: Experiments with peren-
nial veld grass in three States have
shown its suitability for low-rainfall
areas.
At the Mallee Research Station (Vic.)
it was found to stay green until late in
the summer and provide a good body of
succulent feed. Tried out in a four-acre
plot in the strip of desert country near
Dimboola, in the Wimmera, the South
African importation amazed by its resist-
ance to the dry conditions this year.
In S. Australia the Waite Research
Institute had similar promising results at
“Gad! Wot a bokay !”
Pallamana (12in. rainfall), and in W.A.
Elder, Smith and Co. established the
grass successfully in its stock-spelling
paddocks at Bellevue.
Good judges consider veld grass (also
known as red grass) one of the best that
have ever been introduced in W.A.
Under favorable conditions it grows to
a height of from 2ft. to 3ft., and horses
and cattle are particularly fond of it. It
seems to be suited with a very light soil
of a sandy or sandy-loam type.
Master Farms in N. S. Wales.
“K.Mc.”: G. McGillivray, assistant
N. S. Wales herdmaster and one of the
judges for the recent N. S. Wales Master-
farm Competition, stresses the need to
keep stock well fed to prolong their pro-
ductive life. B. J. Stocks, the winner,
had ten-year-old ewes still sound and
breeding well. Entrant-farms were not
overstocked, and nearly all had ample
fodder reserves.
* Fodders, Mr. McGillivray insists,
should be fed to stock and marketed on
the hoof. The animals build up soil-
fertility, which increases pasture cover
and prevents erosion.
The dairy herd of N. S. Bate, Old
Bodalla, who came fifth, averaged 3801 b.
of butterfat.
The other judges, K. G. Carn, found that
improvement of pastures had developed
so rapidly that even the western entrants
were not seriously handicapped by the
drought.
Clovers were playing a big part in
maintaining soil-fertility and preventing
erosion. Grazing lucerne was popular
in the west. Used in rotation with
wheat, it provides feed, holds the soil,
increases fertility and cleans the land
of weeds. Noxious weeds were being
controlled by rotation cropping and sys-
tematic grazing. Paspalum checked
weed-growth on the coast.
Heavy stocking with sheep was replac-
ing too frequent working of fallows to
keep down the weeds, and this had
lessened the amount of wind erosion.
Mr. Carn advised greatly increasing the
area under oats in the west and maize
on the coast.
Harvest Hopes.
“Yarrunga”: Latest official forecast of
the N.S.W. wheat harvest —the Marketing
Bureau’s final estimate of 47,255,000
bushels seems overoptimistic. The
Agricultural Department’s estimate, pre-
pared for the Canberra wheat price con-
ference, was 42,500,000 bushels, and is
not likely to be appreciably exceeded.
Crops in the main are not yielding above
expectations, as they did last year.
The grain trade, with a brighter out-
look, tipped a total of 53,000,000 bushels,
while the silo management computed a
possible 50,000,000. Both these were in-
fluenced by the high average yields that
featured the harvest in the north-west,
which represents about 20 p.c. of the
area sown for grain.
Allowing that upwards of a million
acres have failed, the elusive factor is
still the area intended for wheat that has
been cut for hay. Farmers have made
hay of large areas of prospective fair to
good grain-yielders. In eastern Riverina
in particular 50 p.c. of the crops have
gone into the haystacks in the belief that
the fodder will pan out better than two-
shilling wheat.
Wheat of Promise.
“A.A.D.”: Bordan, officially classified
among a select few promising new
wheats, has taken first place in the
Temora (N.S.W.) crop competition. It
has been under observation at Temora
Experiment Farm since 1932, and over
the last four years has given higher yields
than any other variety, not excluding
Ford and Dundee.
Roseworthy Agricultural College (S.A.)
produced Bordan in 1924 from double
crosses of Bearded Rieti (Italian), Ford
and Dan, and, later, having lost the
strain, came back to Temora for seed.
Very similar all round to Ford, and of
mid-season maturity, Bordan is not as
resistant to stem-rust, but is of higher
resistance to flag-smut. Of medium-
strong-flour class, it is slightly better than
Ford in baking quality.
Bordan should make a good bread
wheat, but it requires very good condi-
tions for successful cultivation, such as
obtain in the inner slopes. It does not
stand up to a dry finishing period. The
Flour Millers’ Association, aiming to en-
courage the newcomer for its baking
quality, is offering a special prize for
exhibits at next Sydney Royal.
Gular or Pusa Wheat?
“Nandewa”: The Wheat Advisory
Committee which has replaced Pusa 4
by Gular in the list of recommended
varieties for the N.S.W. north-west (B.
16/11 /’3B) believes that Gular is a more
productive variety, just as early as and
almost equal to Pusa in flour strength


When Making Farm Improvements
BUILD IN CONCRETE
flitf
Because-
CONCRETE WILL INCREASE
YOUR PROPERTIES’ VALUE
CONCRETE WILL INCREASE
e*T! ‘T ■
V g
YOU A LEAD BY USING
CONCRETE
Write for free suggestions, advice, and booklets
on
Method of Making Concrete
Concrete Fence Posts Concrete Silos
Concrete Troughs, Tank* «nd Wells Leaking Tanks Cornered vri
for Farm and Station.
i iSlfe £
Hf..' m.iBK , £ a** *
one
w imm
WMM
fit. • *" -ji
'MS?
- <■; i
M
•a,/:
iT^fyvlZeivrL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
w
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The H 1 g h ways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—Lon-
~ , .... . don to Edinburgh, 392
York Minster. miles> in g i.* hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to—
BURNS. PHIUP AND CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
GIVES TO UNSEWERED AREAS
one of the Amenities of City Life.
Approved l>y the Board of Health.
No Stench, Flies or Germs.
1
No water supply
required. Can be
installed where
septic tank is not
practicable. The
most widely used
system in A’asia.
In Homes, Hotels,
Schools, Theatres,
etc. Shell Oil Co.
60 repeat orders.
Hank of N.S.W.
15. Any handyman
can install them.
Automatic. No emptying. Write for pamphlet.
Price, £l5/10/- Sydney. Agents all States.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR,
Hygeia Sanitary Company Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
MSMAn F
Weather protection and constant tempera-
ture are more important with pigs than with
almost any other stock. You'll make bigger
profits if you provide your pigs with dry, sanitary and comfortable
conditions. A shelter insulated with CANE-
ITE is an economical, easily worked pro-
position. A Cane-ite insulated shelter saves
feed, discourages disease, enlarges pork pro-
duction and increases your earnings. Write
for samples of CANE-ITE, the white-ant-proofed
insulation which can be worked with an
ordinary saw and nailed to existing studs or
rafters.
c e
THE 100% CANE FIBRE INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
IMPORTANT NEWS
In THE. MASONITE
BOOK (available FREE
from your nearest
branch of The Colonial
Sugar Refining Com-
pany Ltd., Building
Materials Division) you
will find valuable and
interesting information
on the use of Masonite
Presdwood, Tempered
Presdwood, Quartr-
board and Temprtile—
"The Wonder Boards of
1,000 Uses” for the
economical erection of
durable, weather-proof,
outhouses and for
almost every exterior
and interior structural
purpose.
CI4-8
and baking quality. The objective is to
concentrate production in the best wheat
of its class in each locality. So far, how-
ever, millers have not paid equal rates for
Gular.
In five years’ departmental trials in
farmers’ experiment plots Pusa 4 has
outyielded Gular in the north-west plains,
though both reached the same top mark
of 40+ bushels at Culgoora in 1936. On
that same farm this season a 15-bag crop
of the Indian wheat was a prize-winner!
The two are bracketed in recommen-
dations for the north-western slopes.
There Gular in the four-year trials has
consistently given higher yields. So why
the inconsistency in the official guide to
farmers?
When millers are prepared to pay the
same price for both the more productive
will have growers’ preference.
Against Ringbarking.
“Bogaduck”: As a method of clearing
land, ringbarking (B. 17/8/’3B) is out of
date. Trees take up to three years to
die ; if carrying buds a forest of seedlings
is likely to appear. Burning up the litter
will kill off all those seedlings —and may
produce an even thicker crop.
The worst feature of ringbarking is
that the slowly-dying tree is attacked by
insect pests, which breed on it to plague
proportions. When the rung trees are
dead these pests then attack healthy,
growing trees on adjoining areas.
In my S.A. district we claim to have
a better method of clearing timber and
laying down pasture. We poison trees
with arsenic-soda mixture during the
months of June and July. The trees are
dead within a week. They don’t sucker,
and any seedlings which come up around
them are from old seed which has been
lying there since previous flowerings.
We burn the dead timber in the fol-
lowing autumn, sow clover seed with a
bag of super, per acre, and within two
years have a dense mat of feed on the
cleared country.
Lupins Worth Trying.
“Willie West”: Yes, they are worth
trying in W.A. provided you have the
right type of country, but “J. Want’s”
figures (B. 9/11/’3B) need bringing up
to date a little. The area under crop
in Dandaragan alone is over 25,000 acres,
and at Gin Gin there is well over 10,000
acres.
At Dandaragan and Gin Gin sowing
201 b. to the acre will fatten three or four
sheep to the acre the first year and from
seven to 10 in following years. The
same country in its natural state would
barely fatten one sheep to 10 acres.
I have sown lupins with from 701 b. to
901 b. of super, to the acre but have not
noticed any marked difference in the
result from those sown without super.,
and the same applies to topdressing.
Undoubtedly, they are a great fodder
and a wonderful soil-improver. There
are still thousands of acres in W.A. north
of Perth open for selection at a nominal
price. Cost of land, clearing, fencing
with rabbit-netting and sowing with
lupins would cost around £2 per acre.
Tomato Canker in N.S.W.
“J.T.”: Glasshouses round Sydney
have suffered a deadly and sudden attack
of tomato canker, which first turned
up in the State in 1935. Many growers
took it for a little extra wilt at first.
Bacterial canker infects quickly, and
spraying is no protection. Brownish
streaks appear on the stems of the plants,
then cracks appear. Spots mark the fruit,
and some of the tissues appear brown
when a stem is snapped.
The planting of infected seed or young
tomatoes often introduces the disease.
Even one infected plant in a crop makes
the rest unsafe to use for seed.
The first essential in prevention is
clean seed, which should be ensured by
disinfecting in a 1-in-1000 corrosive
sublimate solution for 10 minutes, com-
pleting the process with a thorough wash
in clean water, followed by careful
drying. Seedbeds should be sterilised —
the Agricultural Department has a pro-
cess —and any infected plant found should
be promptly burnt.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bovis”: Instead of salting hides, steep
them in a 2 p.c. solution of carbolic acid
for a couple of hours. Hang them out,
then when thoroughly dry they can be
packed ready for transport. The car-
bolic keeps pests at a safe distance.
“Wandi”: A new outlet for the vine-
grower might be the canning or bottling
of unfermented grape juice. In U.S.A.,
grape, grape-fruit, tomato, pineapple and
other juices are preserved. Orange-juice
has become a local favorite as a summer
drink, and the milk bars are beginning
to do well with passionfruit and pine-
apple juices.
“Zedo”: Grafts must be tenderly
nursed along. When they are a few
inches along cut through the waxcloth and
string with a very sharp knife, otherwise
the string will damage the plant. Don t
remove the wax. It acts like the band-
age on a wound, keeping out infection,
and particularly fungus disease.
“Sandy”: Turnips and mangolds
planted together in the same drill will
give a much heavier crop. Thin out,
leaving a turnip between mangolds. If
pollard is fed with turnips there will be
no taint in the milk. '
“Salmon Gums”: Westralian fruit-
growers will welcome the recent regu-
lations which make the spraying of fruit-
trees for fly compulsory. The owner of
one or two trees has seldom any know-
ledge of how to deal with pests, and has
no interest in the crop. Orchardists have
blamed him for a large proportion of
the crop of flies. The regulation specifies
a bait of loz. sodium fluosilicate, 2+lb.
sugar and four gallons water. A little
fruit-juice may be added with advantage.
A gallon of mixture is good for 40 trees
or 100 vines; half a cup per tree for
the backyard man.
“Yeno Ham”: Cabled from Ontario
(Canada) that a Friesian cow has broken
the world record for butter-production
her production, 24,4601 b. of milk and
9161 b. of butter in 365 days. The Aus-
tralian Illawarra Shorthorn, Melba XV.
of Darbalara, in June, 1923, began a test
of 365 days, in which she produced
32,5221 b. of milk and 16141 b. of butterfat
(equal to 1944.41 b. of commercial butter).
Melba’s yield is still the world’s best.
“K.M'c.”: N.S.W. is in for another
ravaging by ’hoppers. Teeming millions
of the pest are trying to lick clean the
landscape from Moree to Dubbo. The
Mudgee district has only lightly-infested
patches so far, but ’hoppers further north
are on the wing. While crops are too far
advanced in most places, the nibblers will
take heavy toll of the pastures. An
ominous feature is that with so much
luscious feed about the curses are turning
up their noses at the bran bait.
“Yeno Ham”: Deterioration of pas-
palum pastures and spread of carpet grass
had reduced productivity of A. E. Budd s
Tweed River (N.S.W.) dairy farm to an
unprofitable level. Budd decided on in-
tensive pasture improvement. After
rotary-hoeing and treating with lOcwt. of
lime per acre, paddocks were sown with
Poona cowpeas (301 b. an acre) as a green
manure crop. At time of sowing 2cwt.
of superphosphate an acre was applied.
The peas were ploughed in, the land disk-
harrowed and sown with the following
pasture mixtures per acre:
(1) 301 b. of Italian rye, 71b. -of Berseem
clover, 41b. of red clover; (2) 301 b. of
Italian rye, 71b. of Berseem clover; (3)
61b. of Phalaris tuberosa, 41b. of Akaroa
cocksfoot, 41b. of Montgomerie red clover,
21b. of N.Z. white clover, 21b. of lucerne;
(4) 71b. of perennial rye, 21b. of Akaroa
cocksfoot, 31b. of Italian rye, 21b. of Mont-
gomerie red clover, 21b. of N.Z. white
clover, lib. of lucerne, 21b. of Berseem
clover. (Each in a different area.)
Fertilisers included superphosphate, sul-
phate of ammonia and nitrate of soda in
varying quantities. From June until Sep-
tember 35 cows were grazed on the
pastures for two hours a day.
“Isis”: Central Queensland has been
looking forward to a tough, dry time this
season, and it looked like a disastrous
summer for the Barcoo. Storms began to
fall in the middle of November, and there
has been sufficient rain right up to the
Gulf. But it cannot be said that the
grazing industry is booming anywhere.
To low wool prices recently have been
added seriously low sheep prices. There
have been records during the past fort-
night of store sheep sold in Queensland
at 6d. and Is. per head.
“Mulgo”: There should be good
money in the export of passionfruit. Not
long ago a trial shipment, preserved by
a special process, was sent from Brisbane
to London, and realised 4s. 6d. a dozen.
Local price is usually about 6d. The
fruit grows prolifically from southern
N.S.W. to N. Queensland.


accompanied by an
ASSURANCE POLICY
Act wisely young man l
Assure yourself with the
Equitable Probate and Gen-
eral Insurance Co., Ltd., and
you’ll be fulfilling your ob-
ligations for all time.
EQUITABLE
PROBATE,
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
IVingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS. General Manager.
9*
X
m
e
/•'> •* *
'
:*•
f t
. M ': ■&m
•'" §
: .4
im
32
%
mwi
Hi# X
m
?gf
Hr?;
4i g '? ••> ■ ' I -'
0
ft***
x.
‘ l'-*
•••
* Hi
?" .. : r
CM
1
•:•••.. /
'<W , : gf\
/
cU3
n
Hts
''V
:<; f
GD c Gxllurn , s
Scots fflhisky
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
A MIXED GRILL.
“T.”: Australian Lord Mayors who
undertook to collect for poor Czecho.
have finished counting the offertories. The
Perth fund closed with £283 3s. 6d. in
the cocked hat. The Adelaide man had
£3663 3s. Id. Australian to convert into
sterling. His Lordship of Sydney, who
was urged on by Granny “Herald,”
acknowledged the receipt of £2342 9s. 4d.
—about a fifth of a penny per population
of N.S.W. It seems a poor return for all
“Granny’s” heroics, but perhaps the feel-
ing is that poor Czecho. is accommodat-
ing itself to an altered situation and
doesn’t really require Australian charity.
* * * *
Percy Lawrence, dead in Adelaide at
65, was for 11 years chairman of the
Automobile Association of S.A., and
twice president of the whole Australian
body. He was managing director of the
Harris, Scarfe Co., and his home was
that remarkable landscape-garden, up
at Mount Lofty, which railway visitors
from the Eastern States are always
shown as they start the run down to
the city.
* * * *
“S.”: Dr. Frank Cahill, of Melbourne,
has established not only a local but pos-
sibly a London record. He graduated
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of
Surgery in his own city three years ago.
He has just got his F.R.C.S. in London,
but has to wait six months for admittance
to the fellowship, as Englishmen don’t
think a young man should know as much
as Dr. Cahill does till he has turned 25.
* * * *
“N.H.”: The farm that is to be pre-
sented to Dr. Maloney (B. 16/11/’3B) is
not a gift to him personally, but as a
trustee, in connection with his Free Milk
for Children scheme. In March next Dr.
Maloney will have completed 50 years’
service in State and Commonwealth Par-
liaments.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Shades of Freud and
Nelson! The Psychological Fellowship
of Melbourne recently advertised a
lecture to be given at the Central Hall
on “The Growth and Development of
the Australian Navy.”
* * * *
“Bramm”: Three of Brisbane’s medi-
cal students will have probably the cool-
est time of their young lives this Christ-
mas —shovelling ice for an ice-cream
firm. Others will spend the long vaca-
tion picking apples on the Granite Belt,
side by side with possible King’s Coun-
sels of the future. Others again will
take on canvassing jobs offered them for
a couple of months by an advertising
firm. All this is part of the scheme of
the Director of External Studies to pro-
cure vacation jobs for students. At
least two other future doctors will clean
windows and sweep floors for a Brisbane
warehouse. So far, at least 50 students
have found temporary jobs, and 47 of
them, when December comes, will envy
the other three —among the ice.
* * * *
N.S.W. Auditor-General Spence, who
was sent to Maoriland to report on the
way they do things in that country,
mentions that in- Auckland a tripper
can get all-day tram tickets. So he
could in Sydney before the war, when
Sydney had one of the cheapest and best
tramway systems in the world. Fares
have gone up and services have de-
teriorated under commission rule;
and it is the same with the buses. Com-
mission bus fares are an everlasting
puzzle. On Saturdays and Sundays
people in Ryde, Minister Spooner’s
electorate, can travel 12 miles to Manly
for Is. 9d.; but if they want to go half
the distance the fare is Is. 6d.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
From the beginning, Queenslanders have been earnest and enthusiastic contributors
to this feature. This week a Maryborough man wins the First Prize of £3 3s.
for a thoughtful little essay on important aspects of education.
Every week there is a prize of £3 35., in addition to A.J.A. rates—paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be
another prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster. Applicants will be
judged on their contributions to these pages, so they should keep their cuttings.
Understanding Our Language
A great lack in Australia to-day is
ability to understand clearly the spoken
and the written word; while most of
our politicians and public speakers, and
many of our newspaper writers, seem
unable to do more than deal in vague
sentences, which, if clearly analysed,
mean nothing. But they get away
with it, and sway the feelings of
their hearers and readers because the
latter cannot make that analysis.
One of the best ways to learn one’s
own language is to learn another, for to
translate accurately demands a clear un-
derstanding of the meaning rather than
the words. Yet in Queensland at least the
study of modern foreign languages and
Latin is declining. In 1917, in the public
examinations, 80 p.c. of the seniors and
80 p.c. of the juniors sat for French o.r
German ; in 1937 57 p.c. and 62 p.c.
respectively. In Latin the figures are:
1917, seniors 70 p.c., juniors 57 p.c.;
1937, seniors 49 p.c., juniors 31 p.c.
The commercial and industrial sub-
jects show a great gain. There were no
candidates for bookkeeping in 1917 ; in
1937 almost 50 p.c. sat for it.
This swing to the practical in educa-
tion may be a good thing; but it is
definitely at the expense of the cultural
and thought-cultivating subjects.
The remedy lies in bringing the public
consciousness to realise that, while a job
may be one of the reasons for sending
a child to school, it is by no means the
only one.—R. G. P. (Q.).
“R.G.P.” is R. G. Petty, Elizabeth-sfreet,
Maryborough, Queensland; and he gets
the £3 3s. prize, plus space rates.
Protect Us from Ourselves
Regulations framed to protect the
public from the menace of faulty
material or workmanship in electrical
goods are Very comprehensive, but the
regulation requiring all work to be per-
formed by a certified electrician is
honored as much in the breach as in the
observance. Usually a breach is not dis-
covered until an accident occurs, when in
many cases the culprit is beyond rebuke.
Anyone can buy electrical fittings such
as switches, ceiling roses, lamp-holders,
heating elements, etc.; and the fact that
they are on sale proves to what great
extent electrical work is performed by
uncertified persons, as the certified man
would buy his fittings wholesale.
A law prohibiting the sale to other
than a licensed electrician of any electrical
fittings that require connection with live
wires would enforce the electrical regula-
tions better than an army of inspectors.
— F. Pack (Q.).
Persecution, Ancient and Modern
Such is the technique of modern news-
paper reporting that a story which might
in fact be tragically true is often served
up in an incongruous manner. A good
recent example was the “outburst of
wanton savagery” which followed the
murder of Vom Rath.
Quite apart from the usual “well-
informed rumors,” etc., a number of
facts were stated (mostly without
authority) which were at least interesting.
It seems that “twenty-four shops in the
smartest shopping street of Berlin” were
wrecked; “Israels, the largest store in
Europe,” was sacked; and “among hun-
dreds of business premises wrecked” were
the showrooms of Citroen and Etam, the
“leading silk mercer” ; this all appeared,
inter alia, on the front page of the Mel-
bourne “Herald,” Nov. 11.
For five years the Jews in Germany
have suffered a “persecution” comparable
with that of the Middle Ages, according
to one well-informed gentleman, and
likened by another equally reliable news-
vendor to that of ancient Rome. From
all this stuff some facts emerge: the Jews
are not being fed to the lions in the
Olympic Stadium, neither are they being
burnt at the stake for the edification of
the mob ; but there are discriminatory
laws against them* and apparently an
element in Germany sometimes forget its
supposedly civilised manners. Beyond
this, I don’t know what is happening to
these Jews; they have all my sympathy
in their trials, sympathy which also goes
to Catholics and members of other
churches. But, at least, I wish that that
pillar of free speech and democracy the
daily press would not tell us in the same
breath that the persecution of the Jews
is reminiscent of Rome and that the Jews
in Berlin have the largest store in
Europe. It just doesn’t make sense. —
Taurus (Vic.).
Insurance Anomalies
With motor insurance, each year a car
is an asset of diminishing value. With
fire insurance, companies usually pay
promptly all small claims, but when a
whole house is gutted a depreciation
clause is brought into operation. If com-
panies’ liability is to diminish annually,
the premium should also, as is the case
with motor insurances.
Some life offices, if asked to pay out
on surrender values, disburse a reason-
able amount; others pay a great deal
less. An amendment to insurance laws
could easily state that, in case of fires,
the premium received shall indicate the
basis of cover, and that life assurance
surrender values shall not after the end
of the third year be less than a percent-
age of the premiums paid. Observer
(W.A.).
Many Men, Many Ideas
By instituting the O.F.M. pages The
Bulletin shows appreciation of a fact
that is so often ignored. The other fel-
low has a mind.
In all walks of life the attitude that is
adopted by those in authority is that
theirs is the only mind. From the boss
of a ditch-digging gang to a director of
a large company the same overbearing
manner is too often evident.
If an operation is performed in a
manner other than either would have car-
ried it out, the other fellow is a brainless
fool fit only for the sack.
Such a view is wrong, believe me. If
those in authority could hear some of
the theories advanced by their sub-
ordinates during their lunch-hours they
would realise the value of the other fel-
low’s mind.—W. H. W. (N.S.W.).
Teach ’Em to Fly
Any scheme of national defence for
Australia that does not provide for teach-
ing the young men how to handle aero-
planes is weak where it should be
strongest.
Learning to fly is too expensive for the
average city youngster close to a flying
school; the cost is beyond most coun-
try lads. Money can be wasted on
countless useless Governmental “stunts,”
but none can be found to pay flying
instructors, station them in centres
throughout the land, provide them with
a ’plane or two, and thus establish
national flying schools.
I know intelligent youths serving
their, time as motor mechanics.' If Mr.
Street or Mr. Thorby could see the look
in their eyes as they watch a ’plane go
over they’d realise that Australia con-
tains a potential flying corps that would
equal anything in the world. All it needs
is training and equipment, and the sup-
ply of such surely is part of the duty of
a Government committed to a defence
policy. It might be hard to get volunteer
infantrymen to train; just try getting
volunteer airmen the Poseidon rush
wouldn’t be in it.— Contac’ (N.S.W.).
Australian Songs
For a country that produces literature
and art of a high standard, and whose
people are considered to be the most
musically-minded in the world, it seems
incredible that in the field of popular
music Australia is almost entirely depen-
dent upon overseas numbers.
There is no doubt that the Australian
public appreciates any local song that
possesses merit. Proof of this is shown
by the outstanding success of Jack
O’Hagan’s tuneful “Gundagai” and
“Where the Dog Sits on the Tuckerbox”
ditty.
Thousands of pounds annually leave
this country in the form of royalties on
imported songs. Wireless stations could
do much to keep this wealth in the coun-
try by featuring the works of our own
song-writers. The best solution of the
problem would be to introduce a quota
system, making it compulsory for all
broadcasting stations to allot a percent-
age of their time on the air to the play-
ing of local compositions.
Our vocalists and musicians are equal
to the world’s best, and are capable of
giving any song a faithful interpretation.
At present the public is forced to put
up with all manner of “foreign” songs—
good, bad and indifferent.
For years Australians have been listen-
ing to hosts of ballads that have glorified
the womanhood and scenic beauties of
every country but their own. Let’s sing
the praises of our own desirable, girls,
golden beaches and picturesque bush. —
Paton (Vic.).
Refugees v. Our Own
Having read in the Sydney dailies all
the reasons for admitting large numbers
of refugees, I have thought up a few
contrary arguments. They are based,
quite candidly, not on sticky sentiment
but solely on the needs of our com-
munity.
Firstly, then, a large number of these
people are no longer young, and in this
country, owing to the low birthrate, the
average age of the population is already
too high. It is well-known that a low
average age is what provides the “drive”
in development, and it is a vital neces-
sity from a defence point of view.
Next comes employment. Surely, if
we can so glibly promise to employ a
refugee, it ought to be just as easy to
absorb every unemployed person already
here: but such is not the case. Actually
awards would be quietly evaded, and
with the aid of other underhand pressure
Australians would be displaced and
reputable businesses would face unfair
competition. This is no theory ; it is
already in evidence.
Again, hatred of Germany is in their
hearts, quite naturally, and the reason
Soviet Russia does not want them in her
country is so that they will disperse
throughout democratic lands, becoming
supporters of the various disguised Com-
munist affiliations there. That, again, is
no theory, as any Communist will tell
you.
I suggest that, as there are tens of
thousands of childless married people
here, each should adopt a child refugee;
others whose hearts are touched could
assist financially. A thumping big sub-
scription from the “S.M.H.” would be a
good start! —J. N. Rookledge (N.S.W.).
Commercial Radio
Since the advent of the comparatively
cheap wireless set, business houses have
stampeded in the direction of radio ad-
vertising. One may, by simply turning a
switch, listen for hours to the peculiar
qualities of anything from whisky to
breakfast food. How often has one been
enjoying a fine record when the an-
nouncer chips in with, “You are listen-
ing to a programme brought to you by
the courtesy of Messrs. Blither and
Blather, distributors of B. and B. Heart-
burn Pills!” And bang goes the “theme
song.”
Whilst our national stations are far
from perfect, it is rather satisfying to be
able to tune in without fear of being com-
pelled to listen to a prolonged lecture on
fly spray before hearing the next item on
the programme. —A. W. F. (N.S.W.).
Checking Disease
Just recently the capital city of the
Ma State witnessed what is called
“Health Week,” when all sorts of authori-
ties Urged upon the people the necessity
for maintaining good health, and showed
various alleged ways of doing it. A good
start would be to make it compulsory by
law for every owner of a house hired out
to tenants to fit gauze-netted frames to
windows and doors. The fly, acknow-
ledged the greatest spreader of disease,
is given free rein in a community that
lives mostly in rented homes wide open
to its invasion. — Swattit (N.S.W.).
No Fireplaces
Many modern houses and flats already
built and in course of erection are with-
out a fireplace. This seems a deplorable
omission.
Radiators have been substituted, but
they lack the healthy, purifying heat of
a real fire, and are artificial and uninspir-
ing. On bleak winter evenings what
more could a man want than to sit yarn-
ing with his family or friends in front
of a real fire?
I think those who have to live in these
new houses will agree that the “old-
fashioned” fireplaces should be retained.
—Peter Piper (N.S.W.).
Anglo-American Trade Pact
1 see that J. Hume Cook has given his
O.K. to the Anglo-American trade pact.
He calls it “the outward and visible sign
of co-operation between the two nations
to secure the peace of the world. In
other words, it is a sacrament of the new
theology.”
This pseudo-religious attitude towards
political and economic problems is apt to
provoke more doubt than conviction.
Generalities come in most useful when
there is discomfort and uncertainty. We
notice that the best defence that can
otherwise be made for the treaty is that
it will not affect Australia as adversely as
we might have expected. According to
Mr. Hume Cook, England and America
have now accomplished a mystic re-
union after their divorce in 1776. But
Australia was the child posthumous to
that divorce, which the parent in her
present rhapsodies seems to have for-
gotten.
Please, Mr. Hume Cook, come down
to earth. We have not found of late that
vague talk of platonic friendships has
contributed much to world security, and
in the meantime there are the practical
interests of this country to be considered.
—H. A. D. (Vic.).
“Go on the Land!” How?
Taking it for granted that he has £2OO
and resolution, I rise to “Jackeroo’s” fly
(B. 2/11 /’3B). Young man, get hold of an
abandoned hill-block, say 150 acres.
There are plenty such, covered with
ferns and rubbish, throughout Gipps-
land (Vic.) and similar heavy-rainfall
districts, to be had for transfer fees. Pick
a home site, fence and plough two acres,
erect a living-room on the back line, put
in some fruit-trees, hedges and a vege-
table patch. Sow suitable grass on the
balance for future use as seed.
Now spend three years fern-cutting and
re-establishing the pasture on your hold-
ing. Keep that fernhook or slasher (oc-
casionally an axe) going 10 hours or
more daily. Never let up. As soon as
ferns reappear, go back and cut those
again, systematically extending the area
being reclaimed. Burn off and resow such
places as need it. On wet days, carry
round birdsfoot-clover roots and plant
with your heel. At the end of three years
you should have 150 acres of pasture
fit to begin dairying with 20 cows.
Don’t erect a yard of fencing, don't
have one poddy calf or a pig or a cow
on that block until you are ready to put
up all fences, buildings and appliances,
together with purchase of stock, to pro-
duce on labor-saving lines. Believe me, if
you do stock up with more than a few
fowls before you’re ready in all detail
for your herd, you begin a downward
slide. One cow will represent two steps
down, two cows eight steps, four cows
32 steps, and so on. It’s hard to believe,
but it is so.
Three years building up your pasture
will result in 150 acres worth £soo—your
capital. Reputable concerns operate in all
big centres and will finance the right man
from now onward. All the talk about
assets notwithstanding, banks and finan-
ciers do lend more readily to the right
man than on the right security.
Assuming you begin with little experi-
ence, your work and friendships during
the clearing period will add to your
knowledge of local conditions. Work
for, and help, adjoining farmers, always
taking pay in labor returned hour for
hour.
The future promises greater farm-
security. Low prices and drought condi-
tions should indicate the time to buy;
unfortunately for Australia, in times or
good harvests and high prices our coun-
try has often been overstocked with
would-be farmers. —G. F. Young (Vic.).


Days of Opportunity
365 in 1939
m
•m
ft* : > M
Dame Sybil Thorndike.
“Pelmanism gives a mental clarity and
quality of alertness that secs opportuni-
ties and uses them rightly.”
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pel man
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these over 40,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a rvorld-wlde
organisation of 40 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in Fondon, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester
House, 396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne,
C.l, where it has been established for
30 years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
Fiege - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1932. Paris 1933.
Pelmanism is a real training. It teaches
many things, but its purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is em-
phasised by every one of the many
_Unions and letters published in “The
Efficient Mind.” Copies of this book are
posted free. Write or call.
Pelmanism is an all-round train-
ing. It develops agreeably, smoothly
and without apparent effort all the
qualities implied in the term, “effec-
tive personality.” Of these, the
following are outstanding:—
Observation Self-Confidence
Concentration Judgment
Decisiveness Initiative
Will-Power Social Ease
And a good memory for faces,
figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
'A wise man will make more opportunities
than he finds.” —Bacon.
Opportunities are made or they come by chance. It is literally
true that no one knows what each day will bring forth, and every
morning we all face a waking period of 16 or 17 hours in which
conjunctions of time and place will give us opportunities of making
our lives pleasanter and more fruitful, of showing courage and
resource.
A suitable combination of conditions is actually created by
those who have a strong purpose supported by initiative and power
of original thought. Chance opportunities result from circumstances
outside the control of the individual and are useful to those with
quickened perceptions, the faculty of prompt decision and the
ability to make those movements that bring them and the circum-
stances together.
For if opportunity is rotund the corner and stays there we must
go round to meet it. If it comes round the corner to us We must
see it and seize it.
The qualities needed to make the most of opportunities are
not confined to any type or class; they are inherent in every man
and woman. That is why society is always in a state of flux, some
going up and others going down. The more important of these
qualities are observation and quick perception, initiative, concen-
tration, self-control, judgment, decision, self-confidence and a good
memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, places and useful
data of all kinds.
Pelmanism develops these qualities. Half an hour a day of
attention to Pelmanism for a few weeks creates in normal people
those habits of body, mind and will that attract opportunity and
make full use of it.
Write for a copy of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, post
free, and examine fully the claims—and the evidence—that
Pelmanism is a sound and speedy preparation for taking advantage
of the opportunities of each day of 1939. Be one of those to go up.
r
I
The Pelman Institute \
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and
Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street),
Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
*M
Sir Herbert Barker,
England’s Leading Specialist in
Manipulative Surgery.
“It is impossible to speak too highly of
Pelmanism.”
Extracts from letters written by a few
of hundreds who have recently prepared
to take advantage of opportunity:
20th November, 1937.
“I have made definite progress. Have
been made Secretary of the Company with
a rise in salary.”
—-Accountant (Queensland).
18th November, 1937.
"I have just turned 35 and feel with
confidence that 1 am in a strong position to
face the ever-existing struggle of life with
an eagerness and spirit for fight which I
have never felt before.”
—‘Dentist (N. S. Wales).
Bth July, 1938.
“Pelmanism has completely changed my
mental outlook. I owe a debt of gratitude
to the Peltnan Institute and to you
personally.’’
—Electrician (N. S. Wales).
4th July, 1938.
“I feel that this lesson (on Inferiority
Consciousness) has been of immense value
to me. I have completely changed my
whole outlook on life.”
—Engineer (Victoria).
20th December, 1937.
“I see and perceive things I never saw
or perceived before. My mental capacity is
greater than it was before my serious ill-
ness. My whole life and work is a pleasure.”
—Civil Servant (Tasmania).
3rd July, 1938.
“Self-confidence, a lively interest and an
‘I can’ state of mind have enabled me to
produce tennis form that has surprised my-
self. The credit is due entirely to Pelmanism.”
—Public Servant (A.C.T.).
2nd December, 1937.
“This was the first public occasion on
which I had spoken. I went with the fixed
intention of making a success, and I am
pleased to say that I succeeded beyond ex-
pectation.”
—Police Officer (Victoria).
f
■
teJpuftetui
LIMERICK COMPETITIONS
Closing Date December 21.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick, on the space provided for
tne purpose, cut out the whole coupon, and post to reach
“Limericks No. 9,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than December 21.
Results of this Ninth Limerick Competition will be
announced in The Bulletin of December 28.
Any competitor may send in as many entries as he or she
wishes for this or succeeding compeutions, but each entry
must be filled in on a Limerick Coupon.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
is eligible to compete. Otherwise these competitions are
open to all, free of any entrance charge.
This announcement will be repeated in The Bulletin of
December 14, and coupons may be filled in from any issue.
Results, and New Competitions
Results of the Eighth Limerick Competition, which closes
to-day (December 7). "/ill be announced in next week’s
Bulletin (December 14).
Also in the December 14 issue the Tenth of this series of
Competitions will be announced. The same prize-money
(£5O) will be offered, and conditions will be the same as
for the Ninth.
NINTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(.in block letters)
ADDRESS
A fisherman old and sedate
Once fished for three weeks without bait.
When they questioned him why,
He would gravely reply


m
*
mm
S x
mmm
-4'.
i
is mm
■
\f 'i •'! ,vf‘s<■?.*’'
"'. /v’-.iV A «<*•!■,',v?s
Jr
<•», $ *
Ip • >»
|[ .
, . .•&*
V# !
■ k
i iMsmm
m
.
».-■ v •? • • ' ••
■ 1
m
wsmm
mmm
r jail
' :
!; ‘ ?• -• >
&g
J'-'-Jc.,
| ' " ■'
iCfc:. '
Ww-WM,wSj^fM
. ■ k-
■ s '*\ ■ *
. :
*' f 4
ns. it •
|R 5*
* >/
*
'■V
-mm
A i
-*
4 JM
m
2*j
M
V'i:
M
m
■:.. :
.
*,,*'*.:
■>
f#?/
t : til
<
‘ !' t ?th
t \
;
*| ‘ . 'I
l®
liK®®;!
m
I ■ ■ ■
SOUVENIR
How good to meet at Christmas tide
Old friends we knew from far and wide.
Once more recall through cheery glass
The fleeting years that quickly pass.
Retell a tale, redrink a toast
And of our pasts and futures boast.
...Or meet to greet the New Year in
And do it right... with Gilbey’s Gin.
NOW COSTS NO MORE
THAN ORDINARY GINS
Gin OF GEnERfITIOnS
