

What a Comfort is Regular Income!
I " * < :
■
' &
mm®
ymywi:
■ -a-M
m. 2
<* r % W :rn
-1 V-
\ t Z&gy " :)
f i x***
y. ml
Wmmy
m
«>*
' 4' ' v' :
%
¥~
0
W-
-3
■Hi
❖ ' V*. •
I
■
mm
ssss
In uncertain times that’s when the value of your
investments is tested to its limit.
No greater measure of security can be obtained than
that provided by Commonwealth Bonds guaranteed by
the Governments of Australia, and with the full resources
of the Commonwealth behind them.
Especially is this valuable when allied with a good
interest return.
If you have Bonds maturing on December 1 sth next,
decide to convert them into the £72,000,000 Cash and
Conversion Loan now open. £4,000,000 is needed for
urgent Defence purposes, so if you have money to invest,
buy Bonds and ensure for yourself the best investment,
and in addition assist Australia in this important task-
Applications may be
lodged at any Bank,
Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office or
through any member of
a recognised Australian
Stock Exchange.
a
72
o
€
TREASURER.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra, A.C.T,
The Bulletin
JfUfl^1°'
Vol. 59.—N0. 3067.
Wednesday, November 23, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
AIRMAN IN SPAIN.
~. Sof y e Still Live, by F. G. Tinker (Funk and
Wagnalls; Angus and Robertson), the story of an
American aviator in Spain, might have been another
War Birds if the author had been a Spaniard with an
anguished and personal interest in the struggle. All
the material is there —the thrilling aerial battles, the
deaths of companions, the relaxation in the night
clubs of Madrid —but Tinker was a foreigner adven-
turing for a lew months for the love of adventure
and never experienced the prolonged nervous strain
that gave War Birds its feverish power.
Despite that. Some Still Live is an exciting book.
It is one of the lew pieces of straight descriptive writ-
es that have come out of the civil war. Captained
by Ernest Hemingway, a whole army of journalists
have invaded Spain, but they have been so much con-
cerned with atrocity stories, with recording foreign
intervention and with chronicling the geographical
progress of the war that very few of them have found
time simply to describe the fighting. Tinker describes
an aerial strafing of Franco’s trenches in the Casa de
Campo just outside Madrid, with thousands of the
population watching from the rooftops:
~ A. n ent ' re squadron of fighting 'planes weaving along
the trenchewS, one after another, with machine-guns
hammering away; the shrieking and whining of wind
through struts and flying wires; the outraged roars of
motors protesting at the bottoms of dives; the sharp
hollow-sounding explosions of anti-aircraft shells; the
heavy nvet-machinelike pounding of 50-calibre anti-
aircraft machine-guns, all intermingled with the cheering
and shrieking of the enthusiastic spectators. As we
roared past the taller buildings we could see people
jumping up and down and waving everything thev
could lay hands on. J
Except when a friend was killed, Tinker was abso-
lutely without personal feeling over the war. When
hostilities first broke out he was inclined to fight for
Franco, because of his admiration for the defence of
the Alcazar. Then when Franco bombed Madrid he
decided to fight for the other side. War is a game
to him. the enemies as he bombs or machine-guns
them are “poor devils.” “Then we machine-gunned
the boys at Casa de Campo again. After that we
called it a day and went home —taking time out over
the lake to kill a few ducks for supper.” The war
was just duck-shooting, except that Tinker didn’t eat
“the boys” for supper.
Supply trains and motor-trucks, bridges and rail-
way stations, enemy trenches and concentrations of
troops were the objectives of the Russian and Spanish
aviators with whom he and a few other Americans
were stationed. He describes trains crumpled and set
afire, bombed trucks hurtling into the air, and gives
an account in full o( “one of these murderous dives
that foot soldiers may expect in the war to come”:
I spotted one especially large group of Italians in
wild retreat before a couple of tanks. At 1000 feet the
men looked like a mass of ants; at about 700 feet I
opened fire with one upper and one lower machine-gun
By this time I could see the individuals plainly I
could see dead-white faces swivel around, and at the sight
ot the plane comprehension would turn them even
whiter. I could see their lips drawing back from their
teeth in stark terror. Some of them tried to run at ’
r i ght- a ngJ es , but it was too late; already they were
falling like grain before a reaper. I pushed the rudder
back and forth gently, so that the bullets would cover
a wider area, then pulled back on the stick —just as
gently—thus lengthening the swath. I pulled out of the
dive about 20 feet off the ground, zoomed up to rejoin
the squadron, and started looking for more victims.
Also for future reference, he gives foot soldiers
the cheering information that every time anti-aircraft
guns were used the airmen made it a matter of duty
to strafe the trenches in retaliation.
On the aerial dogfights he is equally vivid: the
opposing squadrons, the manoeuvring for position, the
bursts of machine-gun fire, the ’plane with its pilot
shot crashing to the earth, the ’plane with the petrol-
tank hit exploding terrifically in mid-air and under
the huge cloud of black smoke a few wing and tail
fragments slowly drifting down. There are the big
battles when scores of ’planes fill the air and ten or
twenty go down in flames before the dogfight is
finished. There was the time he found himself alone
in the sky with five enemy ’planes above him. There
was the Franco plane trapped in a valley, turning and
diving till the Government ’planes above it, herding
it like a sheep, shot it down at their leisure.
There was the gunner who thought the ’plane
was afire, leapt for safety, and opened his parachute
too soon, so that it caught in the undercarriage ; a
glimpse of the plane in a long shallow dive for its
own territory, with the gunner dangling helplessly
below it. There was the ’plane that wavered, then
crashed head-on into an enemy ’p4ane; and the
medical examination that showed that the pilot, shot
j nec k and knowing he was doomed, had
deliberately rammed the other ’plane to take an
enemy with him when he crashed. There was his
friend whose parachute failed to open. And the
monoplane on which an anti-aircraft shell made a
direct hit:
A Was Jf shin S along at about 250 miles an hour
and the shell must have exploded right in its gas-tank
because it burned completely up in a space of about 75
yards. There was a fierce, brilliant-red flare for that
distance, and then nothing was to be seen except a
sausage-shaped cloud of thick black smoke. The pilot
had no chance at all, as the entire conflagration lasted
only a second or two.
Tinker says, incidentally, that he saw only two
’planes brought down by anti-aircraft fire, and both
of those were direct hits. “We could see the flash of
their guns long before the shells arrived, and at the
speeds we were travelling it was child’s play to dodge
the shells.”
There is plenty of relief from the fighting in Some
Still Live: the drama of Tinker’s friend Chang, who
turned out to be spying on the Russians for the
Japanese Government; the grim jest of the shell-
shocked dog ; the pleasant adventures with the inevit-
able Dolores. Tinker gives the impression of com-
plete honesty on all political and military matters, so
that his book has documentary as well as entertain-
ment value.
Norman Lindsay's Latest Novel.
Norman Lindsay’s new novel, Age of Consent (T.
Werner Laurie), deals with the experiences of a land-
scape painter camped between bush and sea. He is
inspired to some good work by a young girl whom he
uses as a figure in his scenes. He finally gets her t
pose in the nude and draws upon himself a quite un
warranted tirade of abuse from her old harridan o '
a grandmother.
That is all, except for a trifling cross plot in which
a young spieler, friend of the artist, tries to wheedl
some betting money out of a middle-aged spinste
who thinks he is offering her his heart and hand.
Such a light confection calls for briskness o
treatment; and Age of Consent moves very slowly
That is its fault, taken on its own plane; but interes:;
is saved by some of the detail, which is markedly
vital in contradistinction to the theme it adorns.
Bradly Mudgett, the artist, is well worth atten
tion. Art in fiction is usually just a conventiona
addition to some male character’s trappings as
romantic lover. In Bradly Mudgett there are glimpse
of the real thing. For him, the world of mountains
farms and townships has almost no reality beyonc
visual reality. Life is just one long “tonal problem.’
Lying in bed in his camp he hears a noise outside:
Some night-bird, belike, or a seagull squalling below
the headland. Did seagulls squall at night or did they
squall at ajl? Bradly did not know. Like all others
occupied with nature as an image, he had no observa-
tion of her as a process. The nature-lover is extreme
from the artist.
His tours in search of a subject are well done:
Though Bradly lugged his traps abroad he had no
immediate intention of painting. He dawdled over a
subject for days sometimes, recasting its method of
attack over and over again in his mind, till in a
nervous flurry he settled down to paint it. Always at the
first attack he suffered the incompetent lover’s funk of a
collapse into impotence. His dawdling and analysing
was a trick to put off the threat of such an exposure.
Lindsay hovers over him while he tacks canvas
on a stretcher, explaining his small economies. He is
with him when he glowers at expensive paint tubes
for their habit of quickly subsiding into wrinkled
emptiness. He stands beside him as he paints, satiri-
cally revealing his mental processes as he struggles
with his problems ; and he follows him home at night:
He carried the sketch home in a humming state of
exhilaration and brewed tea in a hurry in order to prop
the canvas against a verandah-post and fill his pipe and
sip his tea and smoke and study the sketch. He studied
it for an hour and a half without taking his eyes off it,
save at intervals he roughed up his hair and beard
with an air of refreshment and went on studying it
A debauch of self-esteem? Well, partly; it is not so
often that the practice of a metier allows one to go on
patting one’s back for an hour and a hqlf. But it was
essential to try and retry over every brush-stroke to
mark where this one might be preserved, that one
improved.
He is with him, too, in the slough of exhaustion:
With the collapse of energy from overwork, Bradly
woke to the inevitable discovery that its results were
rotten. He went over his canvases with disgust and
anger, unable to see virtue in any one of them. As a
retort on this self-engendered Nemesis for overworking,
he conceived the notion of getting drunk. Debauch
alone can restore a debilitated ego to good conscience.
This, for Bfadly, meant sitting quietly in a pub parlor
and drinking enough beer to arrive at a pleasant state
of mental fuzziness.
A Maoriland Essayist.
The danger of charming and whimsical writing
is that it is liable to charm and whimsy itself right
off the face of the earth. If an essayist decides to b
I whimsical about a lawnmower, then the machine, qua
machine, no longer exists and the essay is effectiv
exactly to the extent that the whimsicality is effective
With Milne and Barrie there is often a feeling o;
whimsy built on whimsy into a structure as intangible
and as futile as a tower of air. Like the pink candy
children eat at shows, it is charming while it lasts and
then suddenly it is nothing.
There is something of that feeling about several of
the essays in Maorilander J. H. E. Schroder’s Remem
bering Things (Dent; Whitcombe and Tombs). Over
done whimsy, from its nature, is extremely hard to
nail; but where the author uses too frequently the
convention “I am told” to indicate a gentle remoteness
from everyday affairs the intended artless innocence
becomes an obviously artful innodence that taints the
whole essay. When he says that he “is told” that the
I price of hindquarters of lamb is higher than that of
forequarters, it is false whimsy. When, however, he
observes how impossible it would have been for
Rupert Brooke to have been named Rupert Snooks,
it is true whimsy, a mingling of sound sense, fancy
and wit.
One other fault that detracts from the very real
merit of Remembering Things is a deliberate archaism
of style. Nobody calls his neighbor a “gullible loon”
these days, and there is no need to lament the passing
of such phrases when the Americans have such deli-
cacies as “dumb cluck” to lend to the humorist. Mr.
Schroder, on the subject of watches, writes:
Speaking on behalf of an honorable minority rather
than to claim for myself any special merit, grace or favor,
I may temperately affirm that those who go watchless are
in general sweet-mannered, soft of speech, generous.
long-suffering, not given to controversy, yet of some
sprightliness in wit and temper, and wise without arro-
gance; in a word, cultivators of their own garden.
That is straight from the past. It is pleasing ; bu
if it is legitimate then novelists must be allowed
write like Sterne, playwrights to dispense with th
telephone and return to the soliloquy, poets to tro
out their nymphs and zephyrs once more. If a write
refuses to use the contemporary idiom he produces
comment on the past, a kind of criticism rather than
an original work.
Portions of Remembering Things, whimsical o
archaic, are merely a comment on Lamb. They indi
cate how tremendous and how bad an influence Lamb
has had on the essay ; so overpowering is the tradi
tion of playfulness that G. K. Chesterton once apolo
gised for offering a book of “essays.” They were, he
said, too lively and controversial to be called essays
and he preferred to describe them as articles. But
the essay should be the most elastic of forms; its
essence is thought, not playfulness.
Two contemporary essayists have more or less
escaped the worst effects of Lamb: Robert Lync
manages to be witty and fanciful without being
woolly, Llewelyn Powys contrives to write of literary
or historical matters without mixing dust in his ink.
There are plenty of essays in Remembering Things that
have their own validity.
“The Queen’s Bandmasters” is a delight. Mr.
Schroder has dived into the letters of Queen Victoria
and fished out the exquisitely ludicrous story of the
raising of the status of four bandmasters from non-
commissioned to commissioned rank. The Queen
wanted it done ; the bandmasters prayed that it would
be done ; colonels, knights and even dukes got ex-
cited about it; bureaucrats snored among their red-
tape ; colonels, knights, dukes, bandmasters and the
Queen stuck to their guns, until at last a lyrical Lieu-
tenant Zavertal (once merely Warrant-Officer Zavertal)
was able to write to Sir Arthur Bigge that he had
received his commission and that “it has the most
precious signature of the Queen!”
Further explorations into history give Remember-
ing Things bad poets and mad poets, some significant
“Modern Poems” of 100 years ago, Mary Queen of
Scots with surgical boots and fits in Tottenham
Court-road, Mr. Arise Evans, who kissed the hand of
Charles the Second to cure his fungous nose —“which
disturbed the King but cured him”—and the fantastic
Elias Ashmole, who practised medicine under the
tutelage, he said, of the angel Raphael. Some, but too
few, of the essays deal with Maoriland subjects and
will have local interest for South Islanders.
Outback with Conigrave.
In North Australia C. Price Conigrave—whos
early excursions through the north-west entitle him
to a place among the explorers—produced a bool
that serious students of the possibilities of the North
have taken as a dependable source of information
His new book, Walkabout (Dent), embodies these
qualities, but is generally lighter in intention than it
predecessor. It includes some autobiographical matte
relative to the author’s boyhood days, and it relaxes
to make short historical excursions and to include
odd items of general interest.
An early chapter is devoted to the death of Star
light, the bushranger. Among the attendants at the
Perth Museum, where Conigrave worked as a lad
there was a certain mild little man known as Major
Pelly, with whom young Conigrave came to be on
friendly terms. Pelly died through taking poison in
mistake for medicine, and certain items in his effects
led to a suspicion that he had been living under an
alias.
It turned out that Pelly had—some years pre-
viously-assumed the identity of a dead Englishman
with whose brother he had been friendly in Pentridge
gaol, and that his real name was Frank Gordon, alias
Frank Pearson, alias Captain Starlight. Conigrave
writes:
In reminiscence it seems to add a spice to past days
when I know that, all unsuspecting, I walked, not once
but many times, down a Perth street with one who in
his earlier years had been one of Australia's most
notorious bushrangers.
Walkabout goes on to tell of the author’s experi-
ences leading an exploring party through the country
between Admiralty Gulf and Cambridge Gulf in the
north-west. Later there is an expedition into New
Guinea, and finally a round-Australia car ride with
Wizard Smith at the wheel. Rough going charac-
terised the first journey; the King Leopold Ranges
put a traveller on his mettle:
We bashed about in one gorge after another. Four
of the packhorses fell and rolled over and over down
among the boulders. It was miraculous that the unfor-
tunate beasts were not killed. We manhandled the
pack up the opposite side of the gorge, for it was clear
that loaded horses would have no chance of negotiating
the climb, and it was a mere toss-up whether they could
manage it even bare-skinned. Although it was only
400 ft. to the top, it took us two hours to finish the
job, and the horses were then blowing as if they would
burst. Every man’s strength and the stamina of the
horses had been strained to the utmost. That afternoon
I saw strong men moist-eyed and nervy from exhaus-
tion.
Conigrave’s contentment with the bare recital of
fact rather than reliance on the imaginative phrase
gives an added poignancy when, in a later passage,
he looks back across the years to record the fates of
the men who were his mates on that trip: Lachlan
Burns, drowned in a lagoon while pothunting for a
party he was guiding to the upper reaches of the
Forrest River; Jack Wilson, died of an aboriginal
spear wound received while mustering stock on a
Drysdale River station; Murray-Prior, killed with the
Light Horse in Palestine.
Among the lighter of Conigrave’s experiences is
his encounter with an eccentric outback baker who
o Continued, on page 8.)


"THE SENIOR STORE”
eodott
,* ■. IT-
• 4 ■
iL»*
F o a
«V ***
IMS
1
ssav.ja
ssi
%:! i,
tV\
: ■%.
■■Pi "
JAHUWN
i* ■
(5) A gift of service . . perpetual
Calendar. Enamel finish for smart-
ness. Variety of colourings, also
in all Chrome. New triangle shape,
3ix2i inches. AT ANTHONY HOR-
DERNS'. PRICE, each 5/11
til
•M 3
-St
"L tr #
t,;V <
%
.
r
R
■
,
. —' \
* /
. £:A/
A
§
■r-
Ml
jowj
w Mi
L£ : ■
■'
K#S
,
\j
•
- . *
(1) Morocco leather
Pocket Wallet. Brown or
Black. Fitted with note
book and propelling
pencil. Several useful
pockets for stamps, bank
notes, and paper. Boxed
for gift giving. At
Anthony Horderns'.
PRICE, each _ 10/6
(6) Gift Stationery, smart
boxes containing quality
White Notepaper and Envel-
opes. A charming gift. At
Anthony Horderns'. PRICE,
box 4/6
(2) Folding leather Bridge Set.
Two packs Godall's English pic-
ture back Playing Cards, four
scorers and four pencils. Brown
or Blue leathers. At Anthony
Horderns'. PRICE, set 19/6
(3) "Senior Service" self-filling
Fountain Pen. Made expressly
for us. Extra large 14-ct. nib,
with osmi iridium point. Rolled
gold pocket clip, lever and band.
Black and many attractive col-
ours, in presentation box.
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE,
each 21/-
(4) Quaint novelty Paper Weight
in unusual bird design. Made
from polished nuts with erinoid
beak. Set on Black heavy glass
base. At Anthony Horderns'.
PRICE, each 3/6
(7) Attractive cabinet oi good quality
Stationery. Neat floral design. Strong
wooden frame. Brass hinges. Fitted
with White, Blue, Green or Biscuit
noteoaper. AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'.
PRICE, box 7/6
(8) "L'Amour" Stationery.
Flat cabinet containing 24
folded sheets of Lattice
Woven Notepaper, and
envelopes to match. Blue,
Cream, Mauve, Biscuit
and Maize. Exclusive. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price,
box ....; 'l/11
(9) "La Comtesse" Sta-
tionery. Attractive box
with two tone picture in-
side lid. 24 sheets Cream,
Blue, Mauve, Green or
Maize Notepaper and en-
velopes to match. High
grade. Deckle edge. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price,
box 2/11
THE UNDERWOOD JUNIOR
PORTADLE
The Complete Personal
WRITING MACHINE
£1212
What a wonderful Christmas Gift! The Underwood Junior Portable is a full-fledged writing
machine with standard 42-key keyboard, writing 84 characters. It takes standard size rib-
bon, has right and left hand shift keys, back spacer and standard, easy-to-reach line space
lever, a shift lock, and many other writing conveniences formerly found only in higher-
priced Portables The Underwood Junior Portable is one of the best values in a typewriter
ever offered in Australia. AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. PRICE, each £l2/12/-
EASY TERMS. 25/- DEPOSIT AND 12 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OK 19/11
• Stationery—Second Floor. • Delivered Free only within our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'Phone M 2401
Day or Night.


Just a Job of Work
By Osmar E. White
DRAWING BY PHILLIPS.
IT all depends on how a man looks at it. If he’s
better pleased to spend half his days in the station
house filling out reports, and the other half
pounding up and down the pavements trying to
look like a see-all, hear-all, know-all, say-nothing
animated statue in blue jacket and pants, I suppose
he’d call it a hard life.
It’s pretty quiet, of course ; not the sort of place
where a man gets quick promotion. Take me, for
instance. I’ve been trooper, second-class, for eleven
years now. Maybe I’ll get stripes next year, and
maybe I won’t. For a start it takes a bit of getting
used to, but every now and then something happens
and those damn’ O.H.M.S. letters start to come in on
the train.
The train comes through once a week, brings the
mail. When it’s nothing special the old inspector up
at Avery Waters just bundles the letters with the
newspapers in the bag, but when the Commissioners
start guts-aching it always comes by itself in the
guard’s pocket marked with 0.H.M.5., and he hands
it over personally. The O.H.M.S. covers always mean
trouble. You can bet your shirt on that.
Take Sergeant Dick. He never sees an O.H.M.S.
but he starts to swear fit to blister a bullocky. Got
a complex about those letters he has—ever since he
brought in Joey Nikooma.
Joey was a hard case, a mission boy from over
the Springs way. He was pretty well known down
here on account of being such a top hand horse-
breaker. He was one of those big boongs. There was
six feet of him, and he was heavy and he had a hard
black mug, but for all that he was really a quarter-
white. Must have been that that gave him so much
guts with horses, and such an almighty opinion of
himself.
The trouble with Joey was he had a fair devil
of a temper. Always thought you were trying to kick
him about because he was a nigger. Half a word
and he’d have Jack Dempsey on. In the end he got
so bad nobody’d hire him, and then he beat up a
stockman on Mooney’s place so the poor coot was
in hospital for three months and they gave Joey a
stretch in the Darwin jug for it.
Darwin didn’t do Joey much good. The next
we heard of him he was in trouble at Condin
Waters for pinching grub out of boundary huts, and
then for a while he went bush.
The long and short of it was Joey started to go
properly bad, and we had the tip from Avery Waters
to gather him in on a theft charge if he should happen
to turn up in our district. There didn’t seem much
we could do about it but make the usual rounds and
ask if anyone had seen him. Nobody had. We didn’t
forget, but we didn’t go looking too hard.
Then one night the telegraph operator came over
yelling for Sergeant Dick and me and told us he’d
just had word through from the Waters that Joey
had murdered a drover called Bob Windeyer with a
tommy-axe and bolted for the bush.
The sergeant was jumping crazy. He’d been
working on his garden all month, and things were
just about ready to plant. But after a while he quiet-
ened down and said: “Well, Jack, that black bandi-
coot can’t go on belting white men over the head
with tommy-axes. I reckon you’d better get your
stuff together and we’ll go look for him in the morn-
ing.”
OOKING for Joey Nikooma in his own country
seemed as if it was going to string out into a long
business. We took tucker for a month and started
making a round of the camps north of Sassoon. It
had been a pretty dry year, and the boongs had fol-
lowed the game along the waterholes back to the
river. It took us a week or more to catch up with
them, and when we did no one would open up. Joey
was a pretty big man with the tribes. They were
scared to talk for fear he’d come back and take it
out of somebody’s hide.
But the sergeant is pretty fly with that sort of
thing. “Jack,” he says, “if Joey hadn’t been through
this way they’d be talking more. We’ll just keep
travelling.”
We might have been travelling from then till now
if Joey’s temper hadn’t got the better of him again.
He beat up one of the bucks in a quarrel at the
Randy Creek camp and then shot him. His lubra
came into our camp and split.
She took us down to where the fight happened
and pointed out a couple of .38 cartridge cases and
the marks of the horse Joey had stolen from Windeyer.
He had sixty hours’ start of us and was headed right
out into the blue. By now we began to realise we
should have waited until the inspector sent us a
tracker from the Waters, but it was too late to do
anything, and we filled up the bags and got going
with the lubra as guide.
For three days we followed the signs along the
east bank of the creek. They didn’t get any fresher,
and the sergeant reckoned Joey must know someone
was on his trail and be travelling all out.
We left the lubra behind and started to clap on
the pace. If you’ve ever been through that country at
the back of Sassoon, you’ll know it’s no place to
hurry through in mid-February. We made two-day
stages from waterhole to waterhole —and they were
drying up fast. The sun was so strong it skinned us
through our shirts and the flies got to our saddle-
sores and the places where the sweat soaked through.
I started to worry about those waterholes, won-
dering if we’d catch up with Joey and get back again
before the last of the soaks dried up. But I didn’t
say anything, and the sergeant didn’t either. He kept
a pebble in his mouth all day, and he kept his mouth
closed.
Grub started to get low. The horses were played
out, too, because the feed had burned off, and water
made so slowly in the soaks we couldn’t get more
than a gallon or so in the tin at night. What was
worse, we weren’t making up any ground on Joey.
Now and then we came on the ashes of his fires, but
they were dead and cold. Still the sergeant said
nothing.
As time went on —one brassy, red-hot day after
another —I started to think the sergeant was wrong.
Joey was too tough. The nights over a smudge,
short rations of water, the sun, meant nothing to
him. He was a boong: he could live and get fat
where a white man would starve and die of thirst.
'"THEN the luck broke our way. Early one morning
we came on the carcass of Joey’s horse, and the
ashes of his fire still smoking. The sergeant got
down and kicked over the sticks and grunted and
looked at the horse. For the first time I thought how
different he looked from when we started out. He’d
dropped a stone in the month, and his beard was an
inch long. The skin had peeled red raw off his nose
and his eyes had sunk back so far it seemed as if he
was looking at you out of a cave.
“Look, Jack,” he says, “that black cow has cut
strips off the prad’s rump to make jerky. He’s feeling
the pinch, too. Maybe that’s an idea. We might
need a bit of horse-meat jerky ourselves.”
He took out a knife and cut into the other haunch
and strung the slivers of meat on a wire and put the
wire on a pole and started off again, the meat dangling
behind him in the sun like a tattered flag. After that
1 knew it was only a matter of time till we caught
up on Joey. I kept looking ahead, wondering and
sucking at my pebble.
Next day we got into anthill country, and once
or twice the sergeant pulled up. He’d worked it out
that Joey must be heading across to Lake Grieve, but
even at that he could easily double back and give
us the slip.
But the sergeant needn’t have worried. In the
middle of the forenoon Joey spotted our dust. He
kept down behind a hill until we were less than fifty
yards off and then opened up with the .38.
It was lucky for us Joey couldn’t shoot. The
first bullet caught the sergeant’s horse in the withers
and it went down kicking. I must have moved quick,
because I hit ground and loosed off two shots in the
general direction of Joey before Dick picked him-
self up. Joey’s next bullet caught me high .up on the
left shoulder, and I passed out.
The next thing I knew was rolling over and
watching Dick mopping the blood out of his hair
after the scrap. It must have been great while it
lasted. What was left of the sergeant’s shirt wouldn’t
have made a boot-wipe, and he’d lost four teeth and
both his eyes were three parts closed —but Joey’s
face looked like a dung-heap. The sergeant stirred
him up with his boot.
“Get over there, you blanker,” he says, and
snaps half the bracelets on the stirrup-iron of the dead
horse. Then he comes over to me. “You’re all right,
Jack,” he says, giving me a swig out of the bag. “The
bullet just clouted you and went through without
busting anything.”
\l/E started back in the morning. I travelled on
* * the horse and Joey was ’cuffed to the stirrup. The
sergeant came on behind with what he could carry of
the gear.
We made about ten miles that way and camped
at a soak before sundown. Dick dug down in the


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for "The Bulletin s Short Story
Competition are:—
First £7O
Second . • £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
dried mud as far as he could and spent most of the
night by the hole, striking matches, watching the
muddy water make half an inch an hour into the tin.
Now that we’d got Joey he’d started to worry. It
didn’t look so good now —a three-hundred mile trip
with all the soaks as dry as that last one.
Five days later the horse died. By that time the
fever was on me pretty bad, and I don’t remember
things too clearly ; mostly just pictures of Dick and
Joey plugging along in the sun or sitting over the
smudge at night swatting sandflies, Dick thinner than
ever and brighter-eyed, and Joey sullen as a thunder-
cloud.
But I was awake and in my senses the night Joey
tried to do for the sergeant when he was asleep. I
yelled in time, and the sergeant rolled over and flicked
his head just a fraction of an inch from where the
camp axe bit into the sand. A great one with an axe
was Joey.
They fought it out all over again, kicking up
clouds of sand and ashes, and it mightn’t have ended
up so good for the sergeant if I hadn’t broken a thun-
dering big mulga root over Joey’s head when he
pitched into reach after the sergeant had halched him.
After that we tied Joey at night and cut down his
water ration for a couple of days to take the guts
out of him.
By the time we got back on to the upper reaches
of Randy Creek there wasn’t much fight left in any
of us. Now it was just the end of a race between
us and the water. For more than ten days Joey and
the sergeant split a little less than a pint between
them every night. My share was a little more, be-
cause I had to soak rags for my shoulder.
The sergeant started dropping things. Early in
the piece he’d ditched all the heavier camp gear. Now
it was the rifles and next my revolver. He kept his
own till the last and knocked over a couple of crows
the day before we got to Walsa Spring. Then he
ditched that, too. It left us bare. All we’d kept was
the bags and a billy—and Joey.
It was Joey pulled us through. The sergeant took
to letting him do the digging at the soaks. He was
always lucky. He got white-ants and witchetty grubs
and grass root. Without Joey we would have passed
out in half a dozen places. He killed the two snakes
that were our first full feed in a week, and it was he
in the end who smelled out the boongs’ camp on the
only billabong in the whole chain that still held sur-
face water.
Dick tells me I came in, clean off my head, across
Joey’s shoulders. All I know is I woke up when they
were carting me out to Avery in the back of a Ford
van. When the sergeant told that part of it to the
Circuit Court the old Judge said he’d take it into
account, am* he gave Joey fifteen years.
BUT the sergeant has never been the same man
since, and he’s too tough a nut to let doing a
perish crack him. It was the billy-doo, the O.H.M.S.
he got.
We both' wanted new gear when we got back
and he put in a form for it. After three months they
sent him a purler :
Before requisitions for replacement of non-
perishable equipment lost on duty can be
approved the Commissioners must be in posses-
sion of evidence that the officer and/or officers
concerned in such loss have made every reason-
able effort to recover and/or salvage the non-
perishable equipment so lost. Please explain
what steps you have taken to recover the equip-
ment itemised on the attached form, and re-
ported by you as lost during the execution of
duty.
Yes. A fair, proper O.H.M.S.
THE PIONEER
BY ROBERT MURRAY.
HE woke when the glow of dawn was still pink
at the window, and the room was full of the
quivering grey light of very early morning. At
once he dragged himself from the bed and
laboriously put on his clothes, shivering in the cold
air. For a while he listened for sounds of birds or
moving trees that would make him think he was in
the bush, but the noisy motor of a milk van destroyed
the illusion.
The others were still asleep. In the dim light his
foot kicked against a table and a woman’s voice, slow
with sleepy anger, called: “Is that you, father? Why
are you up so early?”
He shuffled into the kitchen without speaking.
He could hear Lilian’s voice and guess what she was
saying to Jim. “It’s your father. Fancy getting up
at this hour. Waking everyone in the place.” Lilian
never lost a chance of showing her resentment at his
presence in the house.
He would have liked a cup of tea, but he was
frightened of making a noise, so he went outside. The
sky was clear. It would be a beautiful day, calm and
buoyant, with an invigorating sharpness in the air.
That was one thing they still consulted him about,
saying, “What’s the weather going to be, grandfather?”
or “How long will this rain last?”
It had been just such a morning as this that he
had set out'over the big ridge into the valley. He
had spent the previous day searching for some easy
way past the steep mountain ridge, following the
rushing creek till it ended in a waterfall dropping
hundreds of feet down the smooth cliffs. He remem-
bered vividly the thin spiral of gum-scented smoke
that climbed from his fire upward between the great
mountain-ash trees, and the hope with which he set
out to climb the steep slope.
It had been worth all the rest of his life together,
he often thought. The joy with which he had looked
down on the valley, incredibly green below the dark
of the timber, would always remain with him. Per-
haps to-day he would have an opportunity of visiting
the valley once more.
The faint sunlight slanted across the yard, and
sounds of traffic began to increase. His grandson came
out and pulled at his arm, saying, “Come for a walk,
grandpa ; come for a walk.”
“Perhaps your mother mightn’t want you to go,
Gerald,” he said; “suppose we just go down to the
peach-tree to see if the buds are out yet.”
“Did you have peach-trees at your place in the
valley?” the boy asked.
“Lots of them later on,” he said, “but at first
there were only gums and wattles, and bracken fern
covering the ground. Perhaps we ll look for them to-
day.”
“Yes,” the boy said eagerly, “you’ve often prom-
ised to show me where you and daddy lived. I’ll ask
mummy.”
“No,” he said, “don’t do that.”
Before they reached the peach-tree he heard
Lilian’s voice calling, “Gerald, come and get dressed,”
and the boy scampered off.
During breakfast the old man didn’t talk much,
for he could see that Lilian was in a bad mood. She
always regarded the picnic as a trouble, a yearly con-
cession to her husband’s people. “Well, father,” she
said condescendingly, “you have a fine morning for
your outing.”
Somehow he couldn’t realise he was going out to
the mountains. It needed his wife to make things
seem right, and all the quick talk and bubbling
laughter. Since Myra died things hadn’t been the
same, and now all the others at the picnic would be
friends of Jim and Lilian.
DURING the trip he sat hunched in the back seat
watching the dark mountains topped with snow.
As they drew closer he could make out landmarks,
the hump of Dorey, the cliff faces of Gameeny, and,
above all, the great white ridge of Damburi, austere
and distant.
Occasionally Gerald turned round, asking, “You
were the first white man in these parts, weren’t you,
grandpa?” or “Tell us how you saw the blacks eat-
the bogong moths.”
The car moved over the long white bridge across
the river. Upstream he could see the concrete dam
and the power-house nestling below it. Near there
he had swum his horse across, anxious to push on
to the mountains.
“You ought to be thankful every time you look
at that dam, father,” Lilian shouted.
He didn’t answer. She wouldn’t understand if
he spoke what was in his mind. They thought he
was lucky because the Government had decided to
build a city on the edge of the plains, and a dam in
the hills to supply it with water. Lucky because his
property was part of the upper-catchment area, and
he had received a good price for it. As if money
could compensate him for what they had taken ; his
home, the sheep straying before him down from the
high plains with dusk creeping up from the valleys
below, and the crackle of gum logs against the winds
of winter, his sons proud of the place, seeing their
future in it. He crouched further into the corner as
if he had suddenly grown much older.
The road wound deeper into the hills, twisting
between the tall trees, and running beside a swift,
clear stream. He heard Lilian say to her husband:
“This track is getting worse every year. I don’t know
why you pick this place for a picnic.”
Jim glanced at her and nodded his head back,
saying only “Father.”
He had half a mind to tell them that they didn’t
have to do things to please him. He could manage
for himself. Hadn’t he come through here when there
was no road at all?
Lilian had never even seen the valley. If he said
anything now she would probably take offence and
insist on returning, and he would lose his chance of
crossing the big ridge. He remained silent, watching
for the sights he had known so intimately.
At last the car stopped in a clearing. He got out
laboriously and stood in the sunlight, looking about
him. The clearing covered a few acres only. On both
sides the mountains rose steeply. From upstream he
could hear the waterfall, just as he had heard it almost
sixty years ago.
He tilted his head back in an effort to see to the
summit of the mountain. Far above he caught a
glimpse of the snow, and he felt a joy as of an adven-
ture that was before him and a confidence in his
power to succeed. On other occasions he had experi-
enced these sensations —when he had been about to
swim the river during the flood to bring help to the
Colemans, when he had driven the cattle down from
the snow in the blizzard, and when he had stood beside
his wife and eldest son, George, and pointed out to
them for the first time the valley and the house and
all that he had achieved.
A voice crashed about him, jolting him back to
the reality of the present. “Where do you think you
are off to, grandpa?”
He was standing on the edge of the creek, measur-
ing the distance across the swirling water to a flat
rock in the stream.
“You can’t jump that far, you know.”
He laughed. “I could have when I was your age.
As a matter of fact, I did” But the young man
had gone to join the others.
HE wandered about the clearing alone, enjoying
himself much more than he ever did back in
the city, but underlying his enjoyment was a vague
discontent, as if the occasion should give him some-
thing more. He went across to his son and said:
“Why don’t we have a look at the old valley again?”
Jim gestured towards the mountain rising above
them. “Climbing over there would kill half of them.
Besides, there is still snow on top.”
“But we could follow the old dray track in the
cars,” he appealed.
“It’s about fifteen miles round and no one has
been along there for years. This is a good enough
spot for the picnic.”
He turned away feeling that life had moved on
and left him forgotten in the past. During lunch he
sat listening. He could have answered lots of their
questions. He could have told them about the peculiar
tablelike rock that they mentioned and how every year
the Monaro blacks used to come to cook the big,
juicy bogong moths on it, and spear a few of his
cattle, too. He could have given them the history of
the house that had stood up the creek, where now
only the rough stone chimney showed among the
saplings. He could have shown them a way to the
valley where the ash-trees grew to over 200 feet in
height, but they only passed him the weak tea or said:
“Will those clouds bring any rain, grandpa?”
After the meal he walked slowly along the creek
away from the picnickers.
“Can I come with you, grandpa?” he heard, and
saw Gerald trotting after him. Together they ascended
the valley. Near the big pool below the falls he
stopped and looked for the place where the track
started up the great ridge. The boy was talking to
him, saying: “Will you show me your valley, grandpa?
You promised to show me your valley.”
Grasping the boy’s hand he started towards the
steep mountainside, “Come on,” he said, “I’ll show
you where your father lived when he was your age.”
For a time he followed the faint track easily, but
soon the way became steeper and more difficult. They
sat down and rested.
Soon he had to rest again, and he felt much more
tired than he had anticipated. The boy was getting
(|Continued on page 7.)


The Making of a "Midshipman”
BLOB
By Steve Bennett
DRAWINGS BY SUCH.
HE came aboard in a bran’-new brass-bound
suit, walkin’ like a trained seal, with two
cadgers luggin’ his sea-chest, his papa loaded
with cakes and fruit and his overdressed
mammy cryin’ her eyes out with pride.
“Jumpin’ Jerusalem!” says the Old Man, spottin’
the bunch on the gangway. “Do they think my ship’s
a millionaire’s yacht?”
“Must be the new apprentice, sir,” says I.
And as mammy helped her darlin’ to the deck
and stood lookin’ for someone to salute him the
skipper groaned.
“Mr. Brough,” he says, “I’ve tried long enough
to make sailors of the other young wasters. I’ll hand
this specimen over to you—and a bottle of whisky to
nothin’ you can’t do it!”
The procession struggled up the poop steps, and
the Old Man straightened up and tried to look
friendly. Papa bowed and poked out his hand. “Cap-
tain Irvine, I presume! My name is Hodgkins, sir,
and this is my wife. This is our son Clarence, who
is to sail with you.” And mammy chips in with a
snivel, “As midshipman, you know!”
The skipper done his damnedest to smile,
shakin’ hands with mammy and her big, fat, putty-
faced blob, and then he remembered me. “This is
Mr. Brough, my chief officer, Mr. and Mrs. Hodg-
kins ! We’ll both give Clarence every attention, but
Mr. Brough is specially interested in the trainin’ of
young gentlemen for the merchant service.”
“How d’you do ?” says the dame, keepin’ her
diamond rings just out of my reach. “Clarence is to
be Midshipman Hodgkins, is he not?”
“Is he not” was correct, and I laughed hearty
enough as I answered. “Yes, madam —among other
things. I’ll introduce him at once to the other mid-
shipmen. Captain Irvine would like to show you
round the ship.”
I dodged away, towin’ mammy’s midshipman by
the arm and bawlin’ at a couple of hands to collect
his gear, leavin’ the Old Man to entertain the visitors
with a few nips in the saloon.
J RECKON Clarence expected carpeted quarters to
himself. His mouth dropped at the idea of eatin’
and sleepin’ in the poky little den with three grinnin'
inferiors in blue dungarees already sharin’ it, and he
touched their hands with the swank of an admiral.
We got. away behind the towboat, and Clarence stood
on the poop in his gold braid and buttons, wavin’
and weepin’, with the Old Man restin’ a hand on his
shoulder like a guardian angel. But before mammy
was quite out of sight I
smashed the pretty picture.
“Get out of those use-
less rags, boy!” says I.
“Parsons will lend you
dungarees till the captain
supplies a new suit!”
Young Parsons
dressed him in a greasy
and shrunken pair of pants
that had served two voy-
ages, and a coat three
sizes too small. As pay-
ment, he took the cakes
and fruit!
When the Old Man
twigged his midshipman in
workin’ rig, he laughed
and was generous.
“If you’ve got nothin’
else there, mister,” he says,
“you’ve at least got plenty
brawn. If you can knock
that into shape before we
tie up in London again,
you’re on three bottles!”
“Whisky, sir,” says I,
gettin’ my back up, “is the
life of man! I’ll land that
lot or break his flabby
neck! ”
As soon as we dropped
the towboat I started in.
I explained the system of braces, halyards, clew-lines
and all, walkin’ the deck with him, holdin’ each rope
and makin’ him repeat the name of it. I did that
day after day, as patient as I could ; and day after
day he forgot.
“What’s this, Hodgkins?” says I one mornin’,
grabbin’ the port main clew-garnet.
“Tops’l downhaul, sir!” mumbles the big calf.
“Downhaul be damned, you fatheaded fool!” I
roared, fetchin’ him a cut across the rump with the
end of it. “Who ever told you that?”
“Parsons, • sir,” moans Clarence, “ten minutes
ago.”
So I called Parsons and asked him if it was true.
“No, sir!” he answered pretty smart, but with
mischief in his eyes.
“You’re a damn’ liar,” shouts the Blob ; and then
hung his head, ashamed of his terrible language.
Inquirin’, I found that for two weeks those young
hoodlums had been givin’ my pupil lessons of their
own. So, after threatenin’ to belt their hides if it
happened again, I turned on Clarence, very nasty.
“You big, soft, useless ass!” I told him. “Come
on deck in your watch below every day, and put in
an hour learnin’ the gear —and I’ll kick your backside
for every mistake! Get aloft and loose the main-
royal.”
I raised my elbow to dig him under the ear, and
he stumbled over his own feet dodgin’ me.
He was gettin’ a pretty lively time in the half-
deck, too. They had him doin’ all the cleanin’ and
the fetchin’ of meals from the galley, and they pinched
his best flannels and socks in the worst weather.
We had mostly good weather till we’d rounded
the Cape and were runnin’ our eastin’ down; and by
then the Blob was the main joke for’ard and aft. But
I had begun to notice that the more fun the crowd
got out of him the more his fat face beamed. And I
forced the Old Man to admit that one good point.
He had a new experience when the skipper was
drivin’ his ship before a howlin’ westerly, hangin’
on to his canvas and takin’ risks to make a smart
passage, with all hands enjoyin’ a little gamble on
the number of days to Melbourne. We had lost a
couple of pocket-han’kerchiefs, and when the main-
to’gans’l went, with the gale still increasin’, I had the
fore-to’gans’l clewed up at once. I sent Parsons and
Hodgkins aloft to stow it.
Parsons beat the Blob to the yard, and a little
later I spotted the two of them actin’ the fool on the
footrope. Parsons was dancin’ for joy at the gawky
gymnastics of the other bloke scratchin’ to pass a
gasket. The ship yawed a bit wide and threw her
head up with a jerk that loosened Parsons’s careless
grip on the jackstay. He went without a sound ; and,
in his heavy seaboots and oilskins, the little feller must
have stayed deep down.
And wasn’t the Blob cut up bad? The crowd
got no fun out of him for over a week, but I wasn’t
allowin’ him to mope around at his work. I livened
him up now and again with fancy names not heard
at his christenin’, and, to keep his mind occupied, I
handed him the dirtiest jobs about the ship. I was
runnin’ enough fat off him by now to make him look
less like a baby whale ; and the day came when I
couldn’t trick him in the ropes. So I hammered the
thirty-two points of the compass into his thick skull,
and stood over him till he was fairly safe steerin’.
One afternoon he surprised me and the Old Man,
bringin’ the ship through a whistlin’ squall with the
care and judgment of an old-timer. I watched him
grinnin’ at his own strength, and I whispered to the
skipper that I was already gettin’ a sniff of that
whisky!
DUT when I saw those three apprentices goin’
ashore on their first evenin’ in port I felt sold.
My bird was the flashiest dressed of the bunch, but
he slouched along the wharf as slow and awkward as
the day he came aboard. The other young roosters
began takin’ him in hand. They’d been in Melbourne
before, and it didn’t take them long to teach the
Blob all they knew about it. He sampled every damn’
drink you could buy, and got himself into brawls
with apprentices from other ships who took him for
an easy mark. Late one night, when I met them
cornin’ aboard celebratin’ with an unholy din, they
told me that the Blob had left a big, argumentative
Swede spread on the sawdust in the bar of the
old Yarra Family.
Then came Betsy. She was one of the trimmest
and prettiest little wenches that ever sailed a wrong
course. When he didn’t meet her ashore she met him
aboard; and so, before we were ready for sea again,
I was scared enough about my whisky to be keepin’ a
closer eye on my buddin’ shellback.
Half the crew jumped the ship, which didn’t
worry me much ; but when one of the boys gave me
the office about the Blob on our last night in the
river I was worried. It was a Monday; and all day
mammy’s darlin’ had been stickin’ out a very serious
and determined jaw. I had stirred the soul out of
him for cornin’ aboard at nine o’clock that mornin’
after bein’ ashore from seven on the Saturday evenin’.
I watched till about eleven, when I twigged my
noble midshipman sneakin’ for the gangway with his
sea-chest on his shoulder.
“Hodgkins!” I shouted, jumpin’ from under the
break of the poop. “Where the hell are you headin’
for?”
“Goin’ ashore, mister!” says he, quite cocky.
“You’re stayin’ aboard!” I snapped, my fist under
his nose. “Drop that box!”
He did. And I chased him back to the half-
deck, with a bit of advice about his Betsy that would
have staggered the devil himself.
We sailed for London with a fair wind and a
happy-go-lucky crowd, but the Blob was broken-
hearted —which a good sailor could never be.
“Don’t frown when I speak to you! ” I told him
the second day out. “I’ll shift your damn surliness
before you’re much older! Overhaul the buntlines
on the fore —and lively!”
I churned him up like that for a few days, and
then I had to ease down. The Old Man pointed out
that the boy wasn’t well.
There was plenty of the right dope in the medicine-
chest, and plenty urgent advice—not always right—
from me and the crowd for’ard. That was the end of
the Blob’s sulkin’, his heart bein’ mended pretty
sudden.
Then he came about and went off on the other
tack. He started swaggerin’. The crew, fool-like,
encouraged him, and got him into rows with the
other apprentices. One was scared to stand up to
him, and the day he sent the other spinnin’ with a lucky
cross-counter he made himself cock o’ the half-deck.
He was pulled up with a round turn by Findley,
a lean, wiry Irishman who had signed in Melbourne.


weary, too, and they had hardly started the climb.
On that day when he had first crossed the ridge he
had been forced to discover a way up for himself; he
had pushed on into the valley and even explored part
of it before he had made his camp for the night. He
went on again, more slowly and uncertainly, with the
boy asking: “How much further, grandpa? Are we
near the top yet?”
He looked up and the summit seemed further
away than ever.
“Not so far now,” he said.
Past the base of the cliffs he lost the track, but
he knew the landmarks well enough to be sure of
his way. Probably no one ever came along here now.
The scramble to the top of the cliffs was difficult, so
he sat down with the boy beside him.
They weren’t nearly half-way up yet. Perhaps
he would abandon his idea of visiting the valley. This
time he would be satisfied to reach the top of the
ridge and look down into it. Maybe, next year he
would persuade Jim to drive along the old dray track
and have the picnic in the valley itself. He should
be starting again, but he was very tired. The boy had
fallen asleep. He would wait a while longer.
Suddenly he wakened, thinking he heard shout-
ing. It was night and the darkness confused him. He
put his hand out and wakened the boy, who at once
started to cry. From below he heard shouts again.
He called out a reply, repeating the calls every few
seconds to direct the searchers. Soon he could hear
them forcing a way through the underbrush. The
boy had stopped crying.
Jim was the first to arrive. “Are you all right?”
he said to his father. Lilian followed him closely,
tired after the climb, her realisation that her boy was
safe turning her worry into sudden anger against the
old man.
“What were you doing,” she screamed, “bringing
Gerald up this terrible mountain? He might have
been killed.”
The others stared at him. He stood there on the
mountainside muttering: “I wanted to see the valley
again, and show it to the boy. I only wanted to see
the valley again.”
“Oh! you old fool,” she stormed in her anger,
“you old fool! ”
He looked away towards the top of the ridge that
was hidden in the darkness, then turned and silently
followed them down the mountain.
Mammy’s midshipman fell foul of this feller on a
stays’l sheet one mornin’.
“Get on the end of the rope, boy!” shouts
Findley. “Take a turn round the pin!”
“Get on the end yourself! ” says the Blob, standin’
his ground. And the open-handed smack the Irishman
served out sounded like the sheet itself snappin’.
“Enough o’ that,” says I, jumpin’ across to the
bunch, “till the job’s done.”
The Blob’s language was enough to hurt even an
Irishman ; but he didn’t let it go at that. As soon as
the sheet was fast he swung a couple at Findley ;
and, when Findley led, he cross-countered with enough
ginger to rattle that bloke’s teeth!
Of course, the Blob was no match for a seasoned
rough-and-tumble feller. Findley was fast, with a
punch like a colt’s kick and more tricks, fair and foul,
than a mountain goat. In about one minute mammy’s
midshipman was a sorry-lookin’ article, squattin’ on
the deck takin’ his bearin’s.
“Get up, you lout,” says Findley, “and have
another round!”
“Lout yourself!” yelled the Blob, strugglin’ to
his feet and shapin’ up again ; but the laughin’ Irish-
man surprised him, holdin’ out an open hand.
“It’s friends we’ll be, sonny,” says he. “And
it’s a flightin’ man I’ll soon be makin’ of ye!”
As they gripped hands the Blob’s face glowed like
a risin’ sun.
AFTER that I let up on the lad a good deal. I was
beginnin’ to feel a wee bit proud of him. But cheek
and bombast! And all I could do, instead of cursin’,
was to laugh. The Old Man shook me up about
that, tellin’ me I was spoilin’ the lad by allowin’ him
to grow too darned cocksure.
“His cocksureness, sir,” says I, “is just his youthful
confidence bubblin’ over.”
“He is too impudent to the hands for’ard —I’ve
noticed that!” snapped the skipper.
“The hands for’ard like it, sir,” I explained.
“They encourage the young devil. And, anyhow,
why should he take any backslack from those hooli-
gans? There’s another thing you might have noticed,
too,” I went on as the Old Man spat. “The hands
for’ard are helpin’ to win me my whisky!”
“I’ll not pay good whisky for another damned
waster!” he snorted. And I dropped the argument.
The nearer we came to home, the cheekier that
young feller was. Mostly it was the fault of Findley.
Him and the Blob had been into it every dogwatch
since their little scrap, amusin’ the crowd by pastin’
each other with knitted mittens stuffed with oakum.
For weeks the Blob was never without a thick ear
or a bruised dial, and Findley was havin’ the time
of his life.
It was a long voyage, and all hands were a bit
excited the evenin’ we picked up the loom of the
Lizard light. The Blob, though, went quite ratty at
sight of the land next mornin,’ when we were makin’
up-channel in a fair breeze ; and the crowd, jokin’
with him, got a bit out of hand.
“Keep that tomfoolery till you get ashore!” I
roared, watchin’ them shovin’ and skylarkin’ at the
braces. And they all giggled when the Blob said:
“Take no notice of the snarlin’ hound!”
That wasn’t funny from a first-voyager, and I
wasn’t standin’ it.
“Keep a civil tongue in that fat head of yours,
Hodgkins,” I warned him, “if you want to kiss your
weepin’ mammy again.”
That picture was too much for him. He laughed
like a hysterical girl, then steadied himself and jeered.
“You can’t bluff me, Mister Mate, with your ugly
bloody phiz!”
I dived for him, pokin’ a left at his snout. And
I got a crack over the ear that made me blink. The
Blob stood off with his hands up, so I decided to
give him his last lesson.
“It’s cross-counters you want, eh?” I growled.
And I hopped in with left and right that would have
ended his damned impert’nence if he’d stopped ’em.
But he didn’t. He slipped me, caught me in the
belly with his knee and prodded my ear with his elbow
—Findley’s tricks!
I took him serious then, and sparred up more
careful. But his wide, grinnin’ mouth annoyed me,
and when he set the whole crowd laughin’ again I
lost my temper.
“Bit of a blob yourself, mister,” he says, “at this
game!”
I led snappy. He caught me again with his right,
shot a left uppercut to my chin, and made the goin’
so lively for a few minutes I wasn’t sure what was
happenin’. But 1 landed him at last with one of
his own favorites —a right cross —that downed him!
He was dragged up at once by Findley. The
Irishman patted his back and whispered in his ear,
and he faced me again with that provokin’ grin.
I flew at him. He grabbed my left arm with both
hands, turned his back and hoisted me off my feet.
I whirled over his shoulders with my eyes shut, but
saw enough pretty fireworks for a Guy Fawkes night.
Findley must have picked me up, because he was
settin’ me on the main hatch while I was gettin’ my
wind. And the Blob was standin’ there with his hand
out —all tremblin’.
“It was a fluke, mister,” he says like a big softy.
“Just a fluky throw. Will you shake hands?”
Well, what could I do? The crowd was waitin’
—gabblin’ and chucklin’ like a lot o’ damned parrots
—to go back to the braces. The skipper was cornin’
our way, and mammy’s darlin’ was lookin’ so upset
I thought he might blubber—and I didn’t want that /
So I stood up, pretty shaky, and took the young
feller’s hand. Then it all seemed so suddenly amusin’
that I laughed till my head was splittin’. The Old
Man’s sides were shakin’, too, although I reckoned it
wasn’t quite so funny for him.
“Don’t forget, sir, you owe me somethin’.”
“That’ll be settled easy enough,” he chuckled.
“Your scowlin’ bluff made such an impression on those
good people the day we left London that the timid
woman slipped me a fiver to protect her son particu-
larly against you. To come out of that, besides your
three bottles, mister, there’s another I promised
Findley in Melbourne if he could teach the boy to
protect himself!”
Of course, the Blob was no match for
a seasoned, rough-and-tumble feller.
Findley was fast, with a punch
like a colt’s kick and more
tricks, fair and foul, than
a mountain goat. In about
one minute Mammy’s
midshipman was a
sorry-lookin’ article.
The Wild Man.
Boo! I am a wild man come to frighten you
In the dark with tales of the dark, and stories
Ol big dreamy deeds—come to enlighten you
With bright giants, and sly facts about fairies:
I am the one to tell you fearsome fables
Of what we did in the old days, in my time.
I shall recite the magic poetical tables
That conjure suns at night, starlight in day time.
You can know, if you choose, the rare, curious
Contes of the poets, winged songs, some white,
Some black as dead-man’s-noon, some furious,
Some tender and warm as summer wind in the wheat,
Some never to be believed: No, I’ll not have it,
It was not so . . . But I say yes, say on
Until you come to love this, learn to crave it,
And beat your head with fists when I am done,
When 1 have poured in your ears oils of wonder,
The tales, the music, words where no words are —
When I have whispered, or flung the speech of thunder
That vanishes like a sigh upon the air
Before you fully hear it. With such wooing
We go about the earth, we who were born
At times when the gods were wine-careless in doing
The measurements of souls: we who must burn
With unsought fires, gay, grave, I hate you,
I love you more, J want nothing, I pine—
Such is our lot, and this I shall relate you
Until in time you, too, enjoy the pain
Of speech that says nothing, of dry weeping,
Laughter in dead faces twisting down:
My voice shall carry you on into sleeping,
My silence make more desolate your dawn . . .
Boo! Here is a wild man to frighten us:
Draw back the curtains, see if it be day.
N.S.W.
Kenneth Mackenzie.


WORTH ITS WEIGHT IN GOLD
VITA-VIGOKOSO FOR MEN AND
WOMEN.
“VIGOROSO” , (tablet form) defi-
nitely “STANDS ALONE” as a
German Scientific Hormone or Gland
Preparation. Its use will RECHARGE
THE BODY with Physical Strength
and Energy and promote Long Life,
Activity, Strength and Vitality, even
in advanced years. “VIGOROSO”
tablets are well recommended and
prescribed by Dr. E. Schubert, M.D.,
of Muuich. Dr. Ludwig Kris, M.D.,
and Dr. S. Leibshardt, M.D., of
Vienna, who attest the efficacy of
“VIGOROSO” as used and prescribed
by them, FULL PARTICULARS OF
INGREDIENTS of “VIGOROSO” will
be supplied to any Bona-fide Medical
Practitioner. Price of “VIGOROSO”
Tablets: 50 Tablets 12/6, Double
Quantity 21/-. JOHN CECIL, Dept.
V.V., Box 1853 K, G.P.0., Sydney,
N.S.W., Distributing Agent for Aus-
tralia.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
ECONOMICS OF DEFENCE EXPENDITURE
MARKET TRENDS
OUTLOOK IN MAORILAND
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING
November Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2]- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
**
it
The Richardson Chain Hotel
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
had one side of his premises daubed with a sign in
large letters, “Rock-cakes for road making,” and on
the other side, “Love-buns for lost vitality.”
New Undset Novel.
Uni Hjelde was making a career for herself on
the stage when she married. At first she continued
with her work, but after a few years her children’s
need of her made a career impossible. Her husband,
Kristian, by dint of working late and early, made just
enough money to keep them.
Uni’s days were all work. Life had closed in on
her like a steel trap. The death of her eldest boy,
the birth of her fifth child and his delicate babyhood
broke down her health and her spirit completely. She
couldn’t go on, and was ready to die. On the doctor’s
advice, and with the help of relations, Kristian sent
her away to the mountains for a whole summer alone
to rest and recover.
There she met Vegard Luders, a girlhood friend.
He had divorced the wife he loved because she wanted
to be free, and his only child had died of scarlet fever.
A deep friendship sprang up between the lonely man
and the tired and disappointed woman. It gradually
turned to love.
When Uni returned home Kristian understood
what had happened without being told. Very ten-
derly he begged Uni to remember their children. He
offered to efface himself from her life, but told her
sternly that since they had undertaken the responsi-
bility of four young lives they must honor it to the
lull and give them an undivided home. Uni came
to see that disappointed ambition was a small thing
beside her vows and her children. The lovers parted
on a sorrowful note.
This is the story that Sigrid Undset has told in
her new novel, Images in a Mirror (Cassell ; trans-
lated from the Norwegian by Arthur G. Chater). .She
saves it from triteness by the beauty and sincerity ol
the telling and the sympathy with which Uni’s daily
life is laid bare. The children too are very tenderly
drawn. All the characters, with the exception of
Vegard, who is little more than a necessary fixture,
are alive.
The main intention of the book is propaganda.
Sigrid Undset has written novel after novel to demon-
strate the fallacy of divorce as a solution of marital
troubles. In The Faithful Wife the heroine divorced
her husband, and a happy ending was provided by
their remarriage. In Images in u Mirror the happy
and unhappy life stories of friends and neighbors are
also used to point the moral.
Images in a Mirror is not spoiled by this didactic
purpose. Sigrid Undset is too great an artist to grind
axes noisily.
A Near-Russian Novel.
R. C. Hutchinson’s massive new novel, Testament
(Cassell; Dymock’s), is as like a Russian novel as
any book that isn’t actually a Russian novel could be.
The story, which is told in the first person but
at two removes from the reader, is of the martyrdom
of Count Anton Scheffler, recorded by the author
from data given him by the count’s friend, Captain
Alexei Alexeivitch Ostraveskov. Ostraveskov’s story
is intertwined with Scheffler’s. It begins with the
defeat of the Russian army in the Lensie Marshes.
Anton and Alexei, both seriously wounded, are
taken prisoners by the Austrians and put in a concen-
tration camp. Here their friendship begins, the single
star in a long black night. Alexei had been a political
prisoner allowed to return from Siberia on condition
that he enlisted ; Anton had been a barrister with
radical tendencies who fought the cases of the
oppressed, always in vain, from an obstinate love of
justice. He becomes the good angel of the prison
camp, and when 300 disabled prisoners are exchanged
he and Alexei return to Russia in charge of them.
The social system in Russia is breaking down, and
the men return to what is virtually another prison
camp. When an attempt is made to draft these sick
and wounded men back into the fighting line Anton
opposes it, incites the men to resist, and is arrested.
His wife, Princess Yelisavete, pulls every string to
save him, and only succeeds in having his trial post-
poned. Alexei meanwhile has discovered that his
wife, Natalia, and their crippled son have disappeared.
After a nightmare search he finds Natalia in a hos-
pital, very ill and suffering from loss of memory, and
the boy emaciated and ill-used on a baby farm. The
long struggle to bring Natalia back to sanity merges
with the struggle to save Anton.
The whole fabric of Russian society is breaking
down into one vast quagmire. Everybody starves; it
is impossible to get medical aid or transport or hous-
ing or any kind of service. Men are thrown into
prison and families broken up with the uttermost in-
consequence. In all the black misery only one point
of light still shines, Anton’s indomitable courage. He
is the last liberal left in Russia ; he refuses to be a
fanatic ; he continues to help the oppressed. Every-
thing fails him, and even Alexei is tricked into be-
traying him. At very long last he is shot, after he
has suffered torture and every indignity ; but Alexei
escapes out of Russia in a barge with his wife and
child. Natalia is restored to her senses and, though
exiles for ever, penniless and sick, they have some
hope of remaking their lives.
Testament, overwhelming in its persistence and
detail, is a picture of man against a universe of dark-
ness in which both the nobility of the hero and the
blackness of the catastrophe are raised to the nth
degree. The characterisation is in the Russian tradi-
tion ; nearly everyone is enigmatic. The detail is
stupendous.
R. C. Hutchinson’s last novel, Shining Scabbard,
was set in France. Like Testament it might easily
have been part of the literature of the land of its
setting.
Sense in Singing.
It is 33 years since David Ffrangcon-Davies pub-
lished his one book, The Singing of the Future, and
20 years since he died, at 62, giving up life rather
gladly, for his last 10 years were clouded by mental
affliction. His name is well-nigh forgotten by the
world, though the older generation of music-lovers
in Britain and the United States remembers him as
one of the most beautiful singers in the field of
oratorio and cognate hiusic.
Intending first to pursue an ecclesiastical career,
and ordained a deacon, Ffrangcon-Davies, son of a
mill overseer, graduated M.A. at Oxford, where they
called him “the pocket Adonis.” His handsome face
and fine bearing, coupled with a keen literary sense
and a voice of exquisite timbre, made his success in
oratorio assured. He was the close friend of Sir
Edward Elgar and sang the part of Christ in the first
performance of that composer’s “The Apostles,” and
was also the baritone soloist in the early performances
of “The Dream of Gerontius.”
These brief details are culled from David
Ffrangcon-Davies, His Life and Book, by the
singer’s daughter, Majorie Ffrangcon-Davies (Bodley
Head). The short biography prefaces a timely
reprint of The Singing of the Future. The
book made little stir when first published, the
criticisms of it, mostly offhand, being largely directed
to an indignant refutation of the theory that, if proper
care were given to enunciation and interpretation of
the words, the voice didn’t matter. That wasn’t
Ffrangcon-Davies’s theory, as his own technical mas-
tery of tone demonstrated. What he was driving at
—and, re-reading the book, it is seen that he drove
at it so clearly and forcibly that there was little room
for misunderstanding—was the fact, elementary, but
often forgotten in devotion to bel canto and other
voice-production fetishes —that “voice must grow out
of language and singers must begin their studentship
by singing thoughts.” The singer, while, like the
instrumental performer, controlled by the composer’s
intention, is further under the necessity of going back
behind that to the meaning of the poet or librettist
whose thoughts are, in song, given both literary and
musical expression.
What Ffrangcon-Davies opposed (and Ernest
Newman, Krehbiel and other eminent critics upheld
him) was the sacrifice of everything else to the “beauti-
ful tone,” so that, as Newman puts it in a foreword,
“every note sung at the same pitch is precisely the
same in color, regardless of the fact that the same
note ought to have a different tinge in different phrases,
according to the sentiment of the words that accom-
pany it.”
The Ffrangcon-Davies view seems to be making
headway. Caruso subscribed to it; Chaliapin was
perhaps its most magnificent exponent; Galli-Curci
understood it thoroughly, and so did Lotte Lehmann.
New York Metropolitan in recent years has added to
its embargo on fat prima-donnas a ukase against
word-contorters.
"International Who's Who."
In the international shifts over the few months
since the 1938 International Who’s Who came along
the volume has had a fair testing in The Bulletin
office. It has been proved an excellent reference work,
especially in regard to those near the top who step
right into the limelight from time to time in the fre-
quent political changes in all countries of the world.
It is a genuine Who’s Who of real personages, paraded
in brief but sufficient biographical form, with no space
wasted on nonentities. Publishers are Europa Publi-
cations, Ltd., in conjunction with George Allen and
Unwin, Ltd.
Reviewed Briefly.
General . . .
Companion to Tweed : George Burnett (Methuen).
Countryside, history, Walter Scott, Wordsworth, with
the fine photographs that usually go with this type of
English production.
The Green Leaf (Lovat Dickson). A memorial
to “Grey Owl,” the Red Indian author and back-
woodsman of Canada, edited by the publisher. When
he died recently it was alleged that he was really a
Cockney and an impostor. Photographs with which
this book is sprinkled prove that he looked like an
Indian. No one has ever questioned his backwoods
lore.
Ballet Bogies : considered by Lionel Smalley and
Alan McCulloch. A booklet which hits Melbourne
aptly in the middle of the ballet boom with a set of
genial satires on the styles of some local critics and
the reactions of Toorak matrons to Anton Dolin and
of their husbands to the flying Baronova. Clever
sketches by McCulloch.
Haste, Post, Haste! by George Walker (Harrap).
One of those books by authors who must have on their
hands an incredible amount of spare time. It traces
the story of the post from biblical times to the present
day—the roads it followed, the people responsible
for its advance from a haphazard and sometimes
hazardous undertaking to one of the great organisa-
tions of the modern world. A vast amount of infor-
mation is packed tight into its 250-odd pages.
Fiction . . .
Beau Masque: H. M. E. Clamp (Michael Joseph).
Time slips its cogs two centuries and a modern girl
has a romantic adventure with the then Prince of
Wales.
The Dark River: Charles Nordhoff and James
Norman Hall (Chapman and Hall). The supply of
real-life epics running out, the authors appear to
be settling down to conventional South Sea fiction.
This one deals with a beautiful white girl brought up
as a native. Well told.
Night Over Mexico: Todd Downing (Methuen).
Crime detection in the Mexican hills. Strong story
and good local color.
Verse . . .
7he Storehouse and Other Prose Poems: J. Ward
Walters (Preece, Ltd., Adelaide). Pastoral free verse,
in the Chinese manner.
My Twelve Hours’ Treasure (Further Studies
from Browning): Lilian L. Scholes (Dey, Ltd., Syd-
ney). “Pippa Passes,” “The Flight of the Duchess”
and “Paracelsus” analysed and elaborated. Clear
and thorough.
* Cui Bono ? : W. J. Carroll. Some of these poems
(printed by the author at Melbourne by stencil-
duplicator process) have appeared in The Bulletin
and other Australian journals. Intensity of feeling is
their chief merit; this, of blind Diggers, for example :
Pockets! Pockets! Gold-lined pockets!
What have you done with their eyes?
They stare about them with gaping sockets;
But their brains are burning wise.
Gathered Grace: George MacDonald (Heffer).
Pleasantly Wordsworthian reflections on nature and
religion by a Scottish poet who died in 1905. Wood
engravings by Nora S. Unwin.
“Printer’s Devil”: An old Bulletin writer will
come into the limelight when the selected poems of
John Neilson, father of John Shaw Neilson, are
published shortly. The elder Neilson wrote much
popular verse with a real Australian ring, and although
he never reached the melodious and colorful quality
of John Shaw he has been neglected too long. The
book is to be produced in Melbourne by the Haw-
thorn Press, the private press of John Gartner, who
has been turning out some book work of craftsman
quality. Gartner, with the aid of J. K. Moir, issued
recently an essay on Joseph Furphy (“Tom Collins”)
written by E. E. Pescott, and is now putting the
finishing touches to the poetry of another Queens-
lander, Victor Kennedy, who wrote Farthest North
and other things. James Davaney writes a preface.


V
m
Hi
WJI*
r
3«
S 3
M
98,
imv
Si 3
a
gUUUUOTr*
wmmo
1
It
Appointments equal
to the best hotels ashore * * * expert service * * *
unsurpassed accommodation * * * excellent food * * *
comfortable lounges furnished with taste and
restraint * * * the society of congenial fellow-
passengers * * * are highlights of P&O Travel,
Tq mins ml an A Oriental £ N Co ( / ncoiponoilpc! tn CiAglancl )


A gift in keeping with Yuletide.. .ser?J your friends
in England a case 0f ...
FAMOUS AUSTRALIAN
WINES
For full Information ring or Write to:
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
King William
Queen Street,
Interstate Branches:
Street, Adelaide. Collins Street, Melbourne. Sussex Street, Sydney.
Brisbane. Packenham Street, Fremantle. Crystal Street, Broken Hill.
London Office: Australia House.
SEPPELTS ARRANGE DELIVERY...No freight charges to pay!
Constitutional Hill.
Both at home and abroad, Seppelts’ wines enjoy a wide
reputation for excellence and purity. They are always
welcome ... especially are they appreciated on any festive
occasion. What finer or more appropriate gift could you
choose for friends or relatives in Britain? A gift of a case
of Seppelts assorted wines carries with it the correct atmo-
sphere of good cheer and fraternity that symbolises the spirit
of Yuletide.
The cases are assorted, containing dry, still and sparkling
wines to your selection. Delivery is made from Seppelts’
London House; thus you have no freight charges to pay.
To each hamper will be attached a card or letter bearing
your personal message.
Prices commence at 36/-, and full details can be obtained
from any of Seppelts Houses.


GUILTY ON BOTH COUNTS.
“You are charged (vun) mit being a Jew, und (two) mit letting der mob wreck your bremises. Der verdict is guilty tvice, und I fine you vun
thousand million marks. Heil Hitler!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings. 115 Lambton
Quay. Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street. London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months. 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
LET UNCLE SAM DO IT!
When the first Napoleon’s life was threatened by
Bourbonist desperadoes, he had a Bourbon prince
seized on foreign territory and shot, after a mockery
of a trial. It was suggested that Talleyrand, his
Minister of Foreign Affairs, should resign as a pro-
test against the shooting. Talleyrand shrugged his
shoulders and replied: “Napoleon has committed a
crime, but that is no reason why I should commit a
blunder.”
The reply and the circumstances are worth re-
membering at this juncture, when English-speaking
people are being told from a thousand platforms, a
thousand editorial offices and a thousand radio sta-
tions that Nazi Germany has committed crimes, and
that it is their duty to avenge them, and to adopt
the victims, regardless of the consequences to their
countries.
Hitler’s situation is not so very different from
that which the young Bonaparte had to face. Like
the First Consul, he has been a target for ferocious
attacks on the part of foreign newspapers and foreign
politicians. Republican French diplomats were
assasinated; Nazi German diplomats have been
assassinated.
There were several plots to murder Bonaparte.
The British historian Holland Rose, who was privi-
leged to search Foreign Office records, has written
that Britons in high places (not, of course, Pitt or
Castlereagh) were privy to at least one, and that
Napoleon knew it; hence, in part, the bitterness with
which he contended against Britain for so many years.
Though the assassin’s bullet has sought Mussolini
more than once, there has been no actual report of
an attempt to remove Hitler, but it is certain that
the Nazis have had to shield him against assassina-
tion ever since he became Fiihrer and Chancellor.
Even while cable pages and leader pages were de-
nouncing them last week, this significant message
slipped in, though one Great Daily treated it as back-
page stuff:
Following recent proceedings before the People’s
Court, when four Communists were sentenced, one being
condemned to decapitation, the Security Service,
entrusted with ensuring the Fiihrer’s personal safety,
claims to have discovered a plot for the assassination
of Hitler and other leaders. The “Daily Telegraph’s”
correspondent at Berlin says that already 50 persons have
been sentenced, and that others face trials for treason.
Weapons and explosives have been discovered in various
parts of Germany. Ernst Nikisch, the author, and
20 others will be tried.
The established fact is that the Secretary to the
German Embassy in Paris was shot by a Polish Jew-
boy. While he lay dying the particulars of the alleged
plot to assassinate Hitler must have been published
in Germany. When he died mobs in German cities
wrecked Jewish shops and burnt synagogues.
Newspaper stories of these outrages are confused
and confusing. The Australian public has been
apprised of what Mary Pickford and the Georgia Bap-
tists and other remote ladies and gentlemen think of
them, but for a plain, unvarnished account of what
actually happened, and where, and for how long, it
may search in vain. To arrive at a tolerably correct
judgment of what did happen, it is necessary to sepa-
rate news from views, to consider the credibility of the
witness when the witness is a newspaper, to reckon
with the possibility that a particular correspondent is
a Jew, and to read between the lines. These opera-
tions performed, the reader may conclude that the
German mobs did little looting and took no life,
but were guilty of much wanton and wicked destruc-
tion. He may conclude also that their barbarous pro-
ceedings were the effect, not only of rage, but also of
fear.
It is asserted that the mobs acted with official
sanction so that a Government alleged to be in
desperate financial straits might have a pretext for
a huge levy on Jewish wealth. Denying the first part
of the accusation (the second part is perhaps included
in a general indictment of “foreign press lying”), Dr.
Goebbels declares that it was beyond the power of
the authorities “to protect all the Jewish shops;
hundreds of thousands of police would have been
reciuired, and they could not have been ordered to
fire on German citizens.” This is unconvincing ; but
then the Westralian Government of 1934 was un-
convincing when it “explained” that it had been
powerless to prevent a Golden Mile mob breaking
loose and burning the homes of foreign miners over
their heads. All Governments that fail to control mobs
are unconvincing when called to account.
That Westralian Government paid substantial
compensation to the victims of the Golden Mile mob.
The Nazi Government has, it is stated, ordered shop-
keepers whose shops were wrecked to repair them at
their own expense, and —though the process of col-
lection is not indicated —has “fined the German Jews a
thousand million marks (the equivalent of £80,000,000
sterling) for the murder of Dr. von Rath.” A truly
ferocious penalty, without precedent since the Dark
Ages.
The Manchester “Garbage-tin” straightway
declared that “the latitude given to Germany under
the Munich agreement” had “contributed to the perse-
cution of the Jews,” adding, with a sneer, that “the
British appeasement policy will permit only a mild
and discreet verbal protest.” Directly underneath this
characteristic slab of “Liberal” journalism were
printed these words of Mr. Chamberlain, spoken in
the House of Commons:
No one in this country would for a moment seek to
defend the senseless crime committed in Paris, but at
the same time there will be deep and widespread sym-
pathy for those who are being made to suffer so severely
for it. The British Charge d’Atfaires in Berlin has taken
immediate steps to safeguard British subjects, and to
reserve the right to present claims for damage. We have
requested him to draw the attention of the German
authorities to the rights of British residents in Germany.
He has also been instructed to address a strong protest
to the German Government regarding recent articles in
the German press associating former British Ministers
and members of this House with the murder of Dr.
von Rath.
Actually, the British Government was the only Gov-
ernment to protest. The French Government was
silent. Mr. Roosevelt had to say something, for there
are 2,000,000 Jews in the State of New York, and
1,800,000 Jews in New York city, and the New York
politicians and editors were all roaring, and his party’s
hold on New York is precarious, and he is a New
Yorker himself. But he was significantly tardy and
cautious about it:
The news from Germany has deeply shocked
public opinion in the United States. Such news from
any part of the world would inevitably produce a
similar profound reaction among the American people
in every part of the nation. I myself could scarcely
believe that such things could occur in the twentieth
century civilisation. With a view to gaining a first-hand
picture of the situation in Germany, I have asked the
Secretary of State to order our Ambassador in Berlin to
return immediately for report and consultation.
The President, however, explained that the sum-
mons “is not in the nature of a diplomatic recall.” He
admitted that the United States had not yet sent a
direct protest to Germany, and refused to indicate
whether any protest was likely to be sent.
You can almost hear this shrewd politician saying
“Ed., we’ve got to think of the German-American
vote.” Nevertheless, the Sydney “Daily Telegraph,”
whose pro-Americanism has reached the abject stage,
insists that “he leads an almost world-wide protest
against Germany’s anti-Jewish excesses,” and is ready
to let “him” dictate British Empire policy:
It has been suggested that his purpose is to force
Britain to choose between continuing her “appease-
ment” of Germany and surrendering American support.
If this issue presents itself Britain cannot hesitate.
“S. M. Herald” also asserts (the wish being father to
the thought) that “appeasement” is doomed, and Mr.
Chamberlain with it:
If the atrocities in Germany were part of a calculated
policy to destroy Mr. Chamberlain and the British
“appeasement” policy, they could not have been more
timely and effective. In the United States public
opinion, equally indignant, is not exposed to the discom-
fiture felt in Britain from the failure of an honest
attempt to deal with the Nazi Government on the basis
of its own professions.
So we are to become bad friends with Germany, and
scrap the naval limitation agreement, and prepare for
war with the Germans —and with the Japanese if
Russia comes in on “our” side —because German
mobs and the German Government have treated their
Jews badly.
Australia hates mob ruffianism, whether
is German, American or Australian, and feels for the
German Jews ; but its capacity to help them is limited.
There are 30,000 Jews in Australia and there are at
least 60,000 unemployed. There are 300,000 Jews in
Britain and there are 4,300,000 in the United States.
That country is rich enough and strong enough and
sufficiently benevolent and energetic and vocal to
become Jewry’s patron and protector. Australia can-
not be expected to imperil its existence or to receive
vast masses of alien refugees for the gratification of
German Jews or New York politicians and editors,
and it is not going to do either.
Bad Escape of Cats.
If it came to war, the still-powerful nation and great
fighting organisation connoted by the word Britain
would give a good account of itself. If the war nar-
rowly averted less than two months back had hap-
pened, Britain would no doubt have emerged unde-
feated, though it could not have saved Czechoslovakia
as improvised in 1919. This justified confidence does
not alter the fact that the ensuing historical records
of that war would have included some remarkable
details of information unknown or withheld while
events were working up to the crisis.
Much of this truly staggering information has
since come out, and is still coming out. It should
reinforce those whose main feeling about the crisis
was, and should more than ever be now, one of thank-
fulness at a fortunate escape from a horrible mess. A
strange variety of cats, decked out in Union Jacks,
the Czech colors, the emblem of the Hammer and
Sickle and other fancy-dress, have been let out or
the bag. They must make many people wonder
whether they are really all out, or whether the bag
contains even more surprising bedraggled specimens.
Take a few only of those let out of the bag in
Britain. War was expected any minute, with aerial
bombardment, plus gas, considered certain. There
was a rush to man the defences.
Guns arrived without their instruments; some
guns were almost useless ; others lacked ammunition ;
many were not available because a firm manufactur-
ing one small part failed to meet its contract; some
were without dials because the makers, in this instance,
were bankrupt. Predictors—for ’plane finding—on
some guns were out of order ; the wrong size ammu-
nition was sent to others. The total number of guns
available for the defence of London was barely 100,
at least three-fourths of them of obsolescent type.
Even on October 1, six days after mobilisation, only
just one half the guns were usable.
“Defence,” said one authority, “was improvised
with various weapons which would be much more
dangerous to civilian life and property than to attack-
ing aircraft.” “The whole system of A.R.P.,” said
another, “proved to be rudimentary, chaotic and little
more than a camouflage.” Of the total million men
and women required for A.R.P. scarcely more than
half were recruited, and not much more than half
that half had had any training. There were wide gaps
in medical, sanitary and fire-fighting arrangements.
The provision and fitting of gas masks were incomplete
and inefficient; many more medium and small-size
respirators were required than were available.
Children under four would, of course, have gone with-
out. “No gas masks have yet been devised to fit
children under four years of age. Wrap them in a
blanket.”
London’s much-advertised balloon barrage was
only one-sixth the size it must be to be effective.
There was little more than one-third the number of
searchlights needed, only one-quarter of the fighting
’planes necessary. The men responsible for anti-
aircraft defence had to deal with somfc eight different
authorities in getting anything done.
This could go on for another column or so. It
is not the report of scaremongers, but of responsible
people, including the Secretary for War and estab-
lished military authorities. Yet there are men who
were eager for the war that was averted, and who
to-day declare that the peace secured represents a be-
trayal. They must entirely overlook this astonishing
escape of hitherto well-bagged cats, and others as well,
even more dumbfounding, that have been getting out
at other places.
The Great Red Army was to have been part of
the strength—by its boosters’ reckoning, the main part
of it. In the attempt to make men eager for
the worst outcome of the crisis, this modern pattern of
the Great Steamroller was glorified to the skies. It
had backers —still has them —to say it could have
done the job on its own.
In the last 18 months the Great Red Army has
lost from executions two field-marshals, three out of
six district commanders, 10 out of 13 army com-
manders, 57 out of 85 corps commanders, 110 out
of 193 divisional commanders. That is, over 50 p.c.
of the higher ranks have been shot. A fortnight back
one Frinovsky was appointed Peoples’ Commissar to
the Soviet Navy in succession to Smirnov, “removed.”
Smirnov is the third Soviet naval chief to be removed
inside the past 12 months. It spells only one possible
condition —chaos. Only bemused sentimentalists will
find it at all surprising that in Poland and the Balkans,
where they have a neighboring view, the Red Army
is looked upon as contemptible.
Then there was the famous Czech “Maginot
Line,” another well-bagged cat that has made a stag-
gering escape. A great mouthful was made about it
as one of the bulwarks of strength. “There is no end
to Czech military ingenuity,” an Australian “authority”
declared.
The real nature of that “Line” has caused amaze-
ment in German military circles, and chagrin to the
German secret service. A London newspaper’s special
correspondent who inspected it during the taking-over
found “no need to seek further for the real reason
why the Czechs did not make good their threat to
fight the Germans alone if the British and French did
not come to their assistance.” In that “impassable and
invulnerable line” fortifications, in many cases, were
non-existent, except on paper. Many of the most
important parts were only half-finished. Most of
the work, where completed, had not been armed with
heavy artillery. Many of the fortresses were made
of inferior materials, and could not have withstood
even a moderate bombardment. Machine-gun fire
would have been the worst the German attackers
would have encountered.
The word “betrayal” has been used a good deal
in regard to Czechoslovakia. It would also have been
used in history, with a difference.
The unbagged cats with the Tricolor flying are
just as interesting. In France since the crisis the
Council of Ministers has decided on the application
of penalties against workers refusing to work extra
hours in national defence industries, part of the effort
to remedy the “grave deficiencies in aircraft produc-
tion revealed in September.” Something of the state
of France can be indicated by general production
figures: in Germany from 1929 to 1937 production
increased by 17 p.c.; in Britain by 24 p.c. ; in France
it decreased by 25 p.c. Also, in a recent test in Paris
the available searchlights and anti-aircraft batteries
were helpless against bombing ’planes; the fastest
of the French fighting ’planes did their best, but “there
were only a few of them.”
The cry in France since that exhibition has been
for aeroplanes and more aeroplanes. As in Britain,
also in Australia, feverish effort is there being made
to make up for past neglect, which quite evidently
was such that the only people who would have been
guilty of betrayal would have been the braying asses
who urged the plunge into war, and who still urge it


PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Unpleasant Surprise.
The Commonwealth Parliament has been struggling
with measures designed to “organise” the apple and
pear industry, and learning from Mr. Frost, the
member for Franklin, that the Tasmanians, who pro-
vide 63 p.c. of the apples and pears exported, have
in two years “scrubbed out 2800 acres of orchards
because of overproduction.”
The Premier of Victoria announced last week
that drought had hit his State so hard that wheat pro-
duction, 48 million bushels last year, would be “less
than 14 million bushels this year,” and that there
would be a deficit of £825,000. Representatives of
other States said at Canberra that the plight of their
wheatgrowers is almost as bad. A distribution of
£500,000 among the drought victims was decided upon.
There is also to be an excise duty on flour so that
those who have wheat to sell may get another six-
pence a bushel or so.
For these reasons, and others, growers and tax-
payers suffered an unpleasant shock when the part
of the Anglo-American trade agreement which con-
cerns Australia was published.
British preferences on apples and pears are re-
duced from 4s. 6d. per hundredweight to 3s. per
hundredweight, “except during the Australian season,”
and there are reductions on tinned and bottled fruits
and berries. The wheat preference, 2s. per quarter, dis-
appears altogether.
Dr. Page, who doesn’t grow wheat or fruit, takes
a light-hearted view of the changes. The Lindley
Walker concern and the secretary to the N.S.W.
Farmers and Settlers say that the removal of the pref-
erence will enable the U.S.A., which controls huge
supplies of subsidised wheat, to knock Australian
competition endways in what has become Australia’s
one great export market. Italy used to be a consider-
able buyer of Australian wheat, but it has gone out of
the business to a large extent, partly, no doubt, because
of Australian daily newspapers’ venomous attacks on
a country with which it is necessary for Australia to
be on friendly terms.
Dr. Page has great hopes of the Australian agree-
ment with the U.S.A. which is to succeed the Anglo-
American agreement. His hopes are not widely shared.
Uncle Sam’s well-known philanthropy does not
extend to trade and commerce. In that domain he is
far more noted for taking than for giving.
The Cant of the Crusaders.
In London last week a Mr. Oswald Pirow adminis-
tered a rude shock to the noble army of crusaders —
by deputy—though the Australian section has said
nothing about it.
Mr. Pirow helps to govern the Afrikanders, who,
28 years ago, went in for union on British
lines instead of federation on the American
model, and thereby escaped, among other things,
the chaos and inaction in emergencies which Mr.
Bevin, the British Labor leader, noted in this country :
It was most evident at the time of the crisis that
Australia was hindered and confused as a result
of having seven Parliaments.
Mr. Pirow is Minister of Defence and Harbors
and Railways. As such, he is free from the divided
control of transport which is already worrying the
new Australian Minister of Defence. Predecessors
have bequeathed to Mr. Pirow the makings of a capi-
tal army based on universal liability to training and
service, and his Government is spending another
£6,000,000 to the end that its country, if invaded, would
give a very good account of itself —and no one with
any knowledge of its history, its tough and adaptable
population and its defence measures can question its
capacity to do that.
The Afrikander Minister was on his way to Ger-
many. When he reached London, the crusaders were
denouncing that country and hinting not obscurely at
another war. The clamor had not died down when
he reached his destination, though it does not seem
to have affected his business.
In London Mr. Pirow spoke to the members of
the South African Club, and, beyond them, to the
crusaders. He reminded the latter pointedly that, if
foreign nations preferred forms of government other
than those with which we are familiar, it was purely
their own concern.
Nothing is more pathetic than the belief that
political happiness is impossible except on the basis
of democracy as known in Britain and the Dominions.
Then he addressed himself to the question of crusading
wars —wars for the Abyssinians, the Red Spaniards,
the Chinese, the Czechs, the Jews —and of “South
Africa’s attitude in the event of Britain becoming
involved” in such a war.
It would be decided by the people through Parlia-
ment on the merits of the case. I have been told that
if that attitude were adopted by the Empire as a
whole it would mean the disintegration of the Empire.
I reply that it is better to base the existing cordial
Commonwealth relations on facts than on make-believe.
Very much better ; and what Mr. Pirow said needed
saying. It might take a vast number of surgical opera-
tions to get the truth into the noddles of League
cranks, leader writers, Moscow dupes and radio blah
merchants, but neither Britain nor any Dominion can
be dragged as an undivided nation into any crusading
war.
Away with the Parks!
While Lud Mayor Nock and Mr. Spooner are holding
what “S.M.H.” politely calls “indecisive conferences”
about the future control of SVdney’s Domain, officers
of the Parks and Playgrounds movement are wander-
ing round in a lost sort of way saying to anyone who
• will listen “How much are they going to grab?”
Someone should listen.
W. L. Hume, secretary of the movement, sees in
the Domain and Gardens:
....a new Parliament House, extensions of hospital
and Art Gallery, an “Olympic” swimming pool and
a large open-air caf£. The section extending north from
Bent-street reserved for other public buildings... .several
new roadways. The new Municipal Library will probably
go there also. Eventually only small remnants of the
higher section of the Domain will remain—in the form
of garden plots surrounding the buildings. Gone will
be the people’s playground and forum.
If Mr. Hume’s worst comes to its worst he sees
Macquarie-street lined with buildings (the palms
gone); 15 acres grabbed ; the upper Domain ruined.
It is congested enough now on Sundays.
All round London the County Council is pulling
buildings down to make the “green belt” the people
need. The men who reserved the Domain for Sydney
foresaw that the city would grow big enough to need
il. It takes very little of the same vision now to see
that Sydney will soon be big enough to need more
park space, not less.
"A Secret Hide-out."
“Mac Hoots”: I quote from Sydney “Labor Daily”
and answer from my own experience when visiting
the spot with the sinister intent of boiling the billy and
feeding the tripper-tamed kookaburras:
The Nazi espionage organisation in Sydney has a
secret hide-out in dense scrub country near Narrabeen.
On one of the few open spaces round Narrabeen
Lake some Sydney Germans entertain visiting sailors
in a large marquee.
There the Nazis meet in secret every week-end.
There, where some Australians have their huts and
where hundreds of picnickers pass by in their boats,
they meet in public every Sunday.
Nazi flags and swastikas are freely displayed.
Swastikas and the names of ships are carved on
the rocks. A Nazi flag and the Union Jack flap
together above the marquee.
The strains of the “Horst Wessel” song are often
heard.
The strains of 'just about every German song
under the sun are heard. Heard, also, is a gramophone
playing English songs, and one Sunday I heard devilish
strains of a tripper’s Hawaiian guitar.
The camp can be approached by boat from the
lakes, but strangers are unceremoniously warned off.
Anyone can land there, and many picnickers do.
The “L.D.” says something about a blocked road ;
I haven’t pried as far as that.
Officers from every German ship deliver there secret
dispatches from Germany.
Furthermore, every Sunday without fail they play
a game which when we were children we called twos-
and-threes.
It is considered safer to transact this business in
the seclusion of the Narrabeen retreat than elsewhere.
On Sundays it is about as secluded as Martin-
place at 5 p.m. on Fridays.
Possibly the swastikas indicate that the gatherings
have some political significance ; I don’t know. I do
know that they’re so very secret and mysterious that
another Sydney daily published a photograph of them
just about two months before the “Labor Daily”
woke up.
Our Neglected Seas.
Chief Fisheries Inspector Moorhouse, an authority
on Australian fish and fisheries, now in charge of
such matters in South Australia, has some interesting
things to say in the latest annual report of the
Fisheries and Game Department. For example:
A small canning factory at Narooma, N.S.W., has
canned sample lots of tunny, and the product is equal
to, if not better than, the best American.
Mr. Moorhouse speaks of the vast shoals of
tunny that frequent thousands of square miles of
easily-accessible waters off southern shores from
November to April. In point of fact, the same species,
also in great quantities, occurs all round the Austra-
lian coasts, particularly in sub-tropic waters. The
incidence in any given latitude varies with the season.
In Queensland waters they are mainly autumn and
winter visitors. The small pilchards on which they
mainly feed are identical with the “sardine” commer-
cially exploited on a large scale . in California and
Canada —and shipped in large quantity to Australia,
where it already abounds. The “small canning factory at
Narooma” —good luck to it!—has to compete against
these and other imported products. Which, aided by
the apathy of Governments, is why it remains single
and small.
Nor is canning the only highly-profitable opening
offered by our ignored fisheries. Again Mr. Moor-
house :
Fishmeal makes an admirable food for all domestic
animals, cattle, poultry, sheep and pigs... .Wastage
from filleting of fish in Adelaide fish-shops and market,
head, fins, backbone, tail and gut, is approximately
half the weight of the fish. Fishmongers are forced
to pay for its removal.
Mr. Moorhouse suggested to a poultry-farmer
that he remove it gratis, mince it and boil it down
for fowl food. The poultry man thought it might
kill his fowls, but at last consented to make a trial
on cockerel chicks, whose loss didn’t really matter.
Here are the results as checked by Mr. Moorhouse:
In four weeks he found that these cockerels were
developed to the size of five weeks’ birds, which, on
being marketed, gave a profit of Is. 6d. per bird.
The experimenter went further —fed the minced fish
(fishmeal) to a pen full of his valuable baby pullets.
In four months the pullets had commenced to lay—
an unprecedented happening in this poultryman’s experi-
ence.
He now feeds fishmeal to all his poultry, and, as a
result, his egg production has risen 25 per cent., his
food bill (since the fish residue costs him nothing) has
been reduced 25 per cent., and he claims to have the
best layers in Adelaide.
The Commonwealth has at last got another
fisheries investigation vessel, and another good man
in charge, to carry on the work which ceased when
Dannevig and his Endeavour vanished in the Antarctic
seas. But it has taken 24 years, and in the meantime
Canberra’s only interest in fisheries and fishery pro-
ducts has been to use imports as a bargaining instru-
ment overseas.
Where Australians Can Apply.
During the first fortnight of September two Austra-
lians and one Maorilander were appointed to senior
commands in the R.A.F. Air-Commodore McClaughry
was brought to London from Aden to be Director
of Training; Wing-Commander Evens took command
of the heavy bombers at Abbotsfinch and Air-Com-
modore Park, M.C., D.F.C., sometime of the N.Z.
Expeditionary Force, was placed in charge of Nos.
1 and 43 Fighter Squadrons.
McClaughry’s transfer breaks a sort of Australian
domination of important commands and staff posi-
tions in the Middle East. At Heliopolis, headquarters
of the Middle Eastern Division of the R.A.F. —a much
bigger concern than the R.A.A.F. —the Chief of Staff
is Group-Captain Drummond from Westralia. The
big ’drome at Ramleh had another Australian. Flower,
in charge.
McClaughry’s territory stretched over most of
Eastern Arabia. To the credit of the Aden R.A.F.
stands the opening up of the Hadramaut, that curious
shallow valley in the interior, inaccessible by land and
shut off from travellers for centuries. There the
flying men found a sort of Lost Atlantis, possessing
cities coeval with Babylon, great castles and mosques
and seven-storey buildings.
McClaughry went abroad from Adelaide with the
A.I.F. He was on Gallipoli and in France, he has
held commands in Irak, Somaliland and Heliopolis,
and as mementoes of his war service he has the
D. 5.0., M.C. and D.F.C. Evens, a pioneer cadet at
Jervis Bay, was a sub-lieutenant in the R.A.N. when
he was transferred to the Naval Air Wing on the
Furious, to serve throughout the war with the Grand
Fleet.
If Canberra feels that it is necessary to import
an R.A.F. man to run the R.A.A.F., it should stipu-
late for one of the Australians occupying high posi-
tions in the British force. But there is no such need.'
Transport on Two Continents.
United States railways have to compete with buses
and trucks running on the best roads in the world and
driven with the cheapest liquid fuel —motor vehicles
can fill 12-gallon tanks for a dollar. Other competitors
have for generations been all manner of craft plying
on rivers, canals and a busy seaboard well supplied
with harbors. Lately, airlines have come into the pic-
ture. One company alone serves 47 major cities, and
the ’plane fare from New York to Chicago—about
1000 miles by rail—is less than the equivalent of £9
Australian.
On long-distance runs, such as those across the
continent, trains have to cross deserts, mountains and
rivers. Floods and snowstorms have to be prepared
for. But the railway cos. have met all competition.
In the process they have revolutionised rail-
roading. They have jettisoned the coal-burning engine,
introduced aluminium steel and altered the whole con-
ception of train interiors. They have provided cocktail
lounges, private drawing-rooms, single-berth cabins,
suites, observation lounges, telephones and other con-
veniences. They have also revolutionised speeds. The
owners of the Twentieth Century, Limited, advertise
that their train does 960 miles in 960 minutes.
For, unlike “Bobs,” these companies and associated
enterprises advertise. For example, a manufacturer
of light-steel trains records that his caravans have
completed “8,000,000 miles of safe, economical trans-
portation”:—
The company has special reason for rejoicing at the
remarkable success of the modern stainless-steel train....
It is a contribution to the national welfare that these
handsome streamliners enable the railroads of
America to operate them at a profit.
Then the Association of American Railroads chips
in. Railroads, the association declares, are the only
U.S.A. transport-service not financed with tax-fhoney.
Nevertheless, they carry goods all over the republic
at rates below those of the subsidised or assisted road,
canal, river and air concerns.
The association appeals for the right to be left
alone to “operate as a business under fair and equal
conditions of competition.”
It makes queer reading in a country which has
seven Government railway systems, huge annual rail-
way losses, transport strangulation departments all
over the place and trains so slow that bike-pushers
beat them.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Tuart”: I wonder whether
Ernst Lissauer is still alive. Val-
lentine’s Jewish Encyclopaedia,
published with a preface dated
January 1, 1938, lists him as one
of the eminent Jews of the day,
and mentions that he was born
in Berlin in 1882. If still on
deck, and in Germany, Lissauer
must have contemplated recent
events in an agony of rage and
repentance; for, as the Jewish
Encyclopaedia puts it, he wrote
the national song that was the
inspiration of the war against
England. How did it go again?
French and Russians, they matter
not,
It’s blow for blow and shot for
shot;
We hold the Vosges and the
Weichsel gate.
You we will hate with a lasting
hate,
England!
Incidentally, it gave rise to one of the
best of the war yarns. There was a
concert in a German prisoners’ camp at
the back of the front, and a Cockney
sergeant-major was M.C. Other Cock-
neys had beefed out “The Mountains of
Mourne” and “My Little Grey Home in
the West.” “Now, gents,” said the M.C.,
“our friends Fritz and ’Ans will give us
the ’Ym of ’Ate.”
* # * *
“Yellowplush”: The death of Earl
Beauchamp has inevitably revived ac-
counts of his “Seidlitz Powder Ball,”
mostly garbled. Sydney “D.T.,” for
instance, makes the affair a levee, and,
drawing on G. A. Taylor’s amusing but
not very accurate reminiscences, Those
Were the Days, says that the white
tickets, which gave priority of admis-
sion, went to “artists and poets.” Here
are the facts: The ball, which happened
early in 1899, was the first given by
Beauchamp, and to it were invited not
only the “regulars” whose names were
in the G.H. visitors’ book, and who had
automatic right of entree to levees, but
various people whom his Ex. regarded
as representatives of the arts and
sciences and all that sort of thing. As
there was going to be a dickens of a
crush it occurred to someone at G.H.
that means should be taken to ensure they
didn’t all arrive at once. So the “regulars”
got blue tickets, which admitted at 8.45
o.m. The others got white pasteboards,
marked 9 p.m. Four or five years ago
when Beauchamp was revisiting Sydney
I recalled the matter to his memory. He
said he was consulted about the tickets
beforehand and thought it was a very
commonsense and convenient arrange-
ment. Nothing was further from his
mind than the making of invidious dis-
tinctions, and, as his principal fault in
the eyes of society was his failure to
make distinctions, that is easily believ-
able.
“Ex-Bohemian”: D. H. Souter used
to tell a story about Beauchamp’s guber-
natorial days in Sydney. One of the insti-
tutions of the city at the dawn of the
century was the Supper Club, upheld
mostly by poets and painters and other
impecunious coves. It having been inti-
mated that the democratic Beauchamp
wouldn’t refuse if he was invited to peck
a bone at one of the weekly suppers, he
was invited. The supper-room, not very
large, was at the top of a steep and
narrow flight of stairs. On the night
of v.r. patronage the committee was in
a state of frenzied activity trying to get
the place nice for the Earl. Just about
eight a loud voice could be heard de-
claiming: “Get a move on, you
blightahs; we’ll have the bloody Gov-
“If you cops spent more time bookin' cars instead of stickybeakin ', this'd
be a freer country."
ernah on us any moment now!” From
the stairs, in a fluty Oxford accent, came
a reassuring hail. “The bloody Gov-
ernah has bloody-well arrived!”
* * * *
“Commish”: The half-sozzled police
sergeant of a joke illustration (B.
9/11/’3B) will very soon be out of date,
for the modern policeman is not only a
highly-qualified expert, but can adjust
himself skilfully to the ways of this
revolutionised world. As an example,
there is a first-class constable stationed
at Balmain (N.S.W.) who is champion
debater in the N.S.W. Police team. Hav-
ing six months’ leave due to him after
15 years’ service, he is . preparing to
depart on a world tour. No. He hasn’t
won the lottery. He is going to finance
his wanderjahre by lecturing and debat-
ing abroad, having already secured
several engagements. Incidentally, he is
to distribute travel pamphlets while
abroad. And he’s by no means an
isolated instance of the new policeman.
« * * *
“Clio”: Re home influence (B.
16/11 /’3B), a retired Judge who spent
many years in divorce work used to
remark upon the intelligence and self-
reliance developed by children who came
from homes torn by domestic dissension.
Unlike pampered youngsters from homes
where they were the first consideration,
those from the other type of family life
early learned to keep their own counsel,
move circumspectly and make swift deci-
sions for themselves. Recalling the tale
of the child who, when asked by an Eng-
lish magistrate which parent she pre-
ferred to live with, inquired “Need it
be either?” the Sydney Judge used to
tell of a girl of 10 who explained her
ideas on domicile by remarking: “Well,
I like both my parents, but all the time
I live with one I’ll be hurting the other.
Eve only one grandmother:. she s Dads
mother, but Mum’s awfully fond of her.
1 think it would be best to let me live
with Grandma.” And this solution,
thought out entirely by the child, was
found to be satisfactory to all concerned.
* * * *
“Chipper”: “Qwert Yuiop” (B.
9/11 / ’3B) was widely astray when he de-
clared that nobody ever associated the
crooked penny with good fortune in
Scotland. As long as I can remember,
even in the humblest “but and ben” no
Scot would dream of parting with a
crooked bawbee under any considera-
tion. One of the first songs I remem-
ber, “Bonnie Glenshee,” opened with
“Oh, whaur awa gat ye the auld crookit
penny, for yin o’ bricht gold wid I change
it wi’ thee.”
“Ida D.”: “Bisi” seems to have slipped
in his reference to Samuel Pepys and his
“naked bed” (B. 9/11/ ’3B). In my
Pepys, on 7/9/1660 he says that S. W.
Pen gave him a bed, but “without cur-
tains or hangings, all being down” (on
account of the Fire). He adds: “So here
I went the first time into a naked bed,
only my drawers on, and did sleep pretty
well.” From this it appears that Samuel
was not used to sleeping unclothed. In
several places he refers to the “hangings
and curtains being down” ; and Sir W.
Coventry “lay without curtains at St.
James.” Sam evidently considered a bed
naked when divested of its top-hamper.
* * * *
“Key”: My neighbor Binks, who is
boresome and inclined to pomposity, still
describes those he admires as “white
men.” He brought along a South Afri-
can visitor to the luncheon place we
patronise, and introduced him to a dozen
or so regulars. “A white man! ” said he
as I was produced. “And meet another
white man,” as Smith was presented.
Brown and Jones also were guaranteed
before we sat down. The visitor sat
next to me. “I’m surprised,” said he,
“to find you emphasise your white strain
so strongly to strangers. I suppose these
others” —indicating the rest of the diners
at our board —“have a dash of the tar-
brush in them?”
“Liam”: A lack of our language is
some succinct means of conveying the
comparatives of intoxication. “Merry,”
“drunk” and “blotto” are slang terms
that attempt to cope with the problem,
but they are not suitable for use in all
circumstances. As a suggestion—since
we have pinched words from nearly every
language .under the sun —why not help
ourselves to three very courteous and
correct adjectives used at present by the
Murut tribe in Malaya? Muruts de-
scribe a man’s condition as “magauk”
if he is mildly intoxicated ; as “magauk
kepioh” if he is definitely drunk, and as
“magauk kepi pioh” if he is dead to the
world.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: In his recently-published
book on the Versailles Treaty, Lloyd
George gets some characteristic guff off
his chest. Writing of Louis Botha, he
says ; “Botha was essentially a man of
the wide open spaces, where he com-
muned with the vast distances of earth
below and the infinite heights of the
heavens above.” Botha certainly was a
landman, one of an old farming family
in Vryheid, on the Natal frontier, one
of the oldest and most closely settled
districts of the Transvaal, but he was
never much of a communer with the in-
tangible. In his youth he was a bit of
a lad, as his relatives have told me more
than once, and liked nothing better than
to get down to Pietermaritzburg and play
polo and make mild whoopee with the
officers of the cavalry regiment which
happened to be stationed there at the
time. He was a great favorite with the
Britons, and returned the kindly feeling,
so much so that for a long time his
people looked on him as pro-Rooinek.
This prevented his being given supreme
command in Natal until it was too late.
* * * *
“Dhas”: Somehow or other a private
letter got between the pages of a very
superior English review when it was
mailed to me this month. I read “Betty
Darling,—l feel a worm for not writing
before,” and then felt ashamed for prying
and tore it up. Thus I didn’t read the
three pages about Olive’s and Betty’s
friend who had died, and how sad it was,
but how lucky that he had been insured
with the right company ; indeed, it has
only just dawned on me that this was
the advertisement of an enterprising in-
surance company, relying on the fact
that few of us can resist reading other
people’s private letters.
* * * Jk
“D. Empson”: That par. about Kisch
reminds me that I read Kisch’s book. A
most conceited performance, and I
closed the volume with a strong distaste
for the writer and for those who sup-
plied him with some of the information
he dishes up. Kisch refers to himself as
Our Man, and tells an ill-natured story
of an Australian woman whose shoes it
would have been an honor for him to
polish.
Our man was not the first Czech pre-
vented from entering Australia. Thirty
years previously the Czech woman singer,
Emmy Destinn, was to have made a con-
cert tour of Australia, but Melba, “the
Australian Nightingale,” frustrated this
plan by bringing pressure to bear on the
concert agency, and paid £l5OO out of
her own pocket as recompense for the
broken contract.
What a mean attack on a dead woman!
The fact is that Destinn was never in
Melba’s class. Can anyone but a Kisch
or a Kisch flatterer imagine our spirited
and high-principled Nellie Mitchell pay-
ing £l5OO to prevent an inferior singer
coming to Australia? She would rather
have cut her throat.
* * * *
“Argon”: Have heard of some pretty
raw deals handed out to tramps who
steal free rides on trains, but I think this
beats the band. Picking up a lad when
driving in South Queensland, I noticed
that he was badly bruised about the face
and hands and limped badly. He explained
that he had been riding the rods and had
fallen victim to a “ ’bo teaser.” I asked
for an explanation, and was told that a
playful member of the train crew ties a
large engine bolt to a strong cord and
lowers it between the tender and the first
carriage, then slowly unwinds the cord.
After seeing this lad’s injuries I am will-
ing to share his belief that had not the
cord parted from the bolt he might have
been beaten to death.
=K * * *
“A.S.D.F.G.”: “Dungeness” (B.
9/11/’3B) misses on his declaration that
“the first attempt in Australia to con-
duct public hospitals without honorary
medical officers began in Queensland on
Nov. 1.” Broken Hill (N.S.W.) has had
the system in operation for 30 years to
my personal knowledge, and I know it
began before that. In the B.H. Hospital
there are four resident medical officers
working under the direction of a sur-
geon-superintendent, also resident, and
all debarred from accepting private
patients.
IF ONLY.
“If I hud Jj 10 1 wouldn’t be a poet.” —“lke
Ilollar ß. 16/11/’38.)
I’d give my trade the go-by
And cease constructing odes
If I could earn my dough by
Some less exacting modes.
But there are none to turn to
Would furnish me a crust;
Some sing because they yearn to,
I pipe because I must.
No bardic glow suffuses
The lays I hawk for sale,
l only court the Muses
For cash upon the nail.
My lyre into the billows
How cheerfully I’d bang,
How blithely on the willows
My battered harp I’d hang;
My furrow hard and lonely
How readily I’d quit
If only—ah, if only—
I sat behind a bit,
A shield however brittle,
Wherewith I might ignore,
If only for a little
The wolf outside the door!
T wouldn’t purr or yelp it
In verse, or sonnets chant,
If only 1 could help it;
3ut, dashitall! I can’t.
I might have found my mission
Had I been captured young,
Say as a politician
Or even as a Bung.
But gloomier fate encumbers
This working overtime
To speak your piece in numbers
And do your stuff in rhyme.
I wouldn’t be a poet
If I had any choice
Or if —how well I know it!
I’d ever had a voice.
’Tis not because I love it
I sing—no “golden clime
With golden stars above it”
Gave me that gift sublime.
No hope of far bonanzas
Lights up my tragic tale;
I’ve got to sell my stanzas
For cash upon the nail. /< «$
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“De Trop”: Though I give way to
nobody in my admiration for and keen
interest in the imported “pictorial
features” of Sydney “Sun,” it is dawning
upon me that the element of suspense in
the serials is being just a little overdone.
It was on November 3 that Yvonne (one
of Tarzan’s pals) was bidden by Gulm,
high-priest of the gorillas, to drive a
knife into the heart of a sacrificial cap-
tive, a white boy. Thereafter, day after
day, she held that knife aloft, till
November 12, when for some reason or
other she dropped it. Too slow, and
too reminiscent, to Sydneysiders, of the
majestically leisurely rate at which the
Plaza Hotel (one storey in six years)
raises its 15 floors to the welkin, and
of the series of anticlimaxes which pur-
sues the Circular Quay railway works
and makes the place look year after year
like a long-deserted mine.
4< * * *
“Stand Easy”: “C.Q.’s” lady assistant
to a biologist who failed to diagnose a
rat’s condition as a maternity matter
recalls an incident at Victoria Barracks,
Bri§bane, when troops were being en-
listed for the Great War. A refaned
young lady, employed as a typist, made
copies of discharges of men rejected as
unfit for service. One morning she
brought me a discharge with the query,
“What does V.D. mean?” “Volunteer
Decoration,” says I, with admirable pres-
ence of mind. “What a shame to reject
a man with such a record!” says she
indignantly.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Old Vickery’s Chambers,
in Pitt-street, the pride of Sydney when
they were new, are to go ; and Joseph
Thompson (the firm is now Thompson
and Cottee), the building’s principal
tenant, will have to find new premises
after using the office much longer than
any other Gent. One has occupied a
single address. One of Sydney’s first
orchards stood on this land, and a peach-
tree kept alive in an adjacent court still
gives its blossoms in due season. The site
had so little value in the early days
that its original owner forgot all about
it; a possessory title was earned by a
later occupier, and Ebenezer Vickery
later' still bought, very cheap, land
now worth a fortune. He laid down
careful rules regarding the first tenants ;
their businesses must not be connected
with racing, gambling in any form, the
theatre or liquor. These restrictions
" Remember , Prendergast, if another crisis occurs you'll find me at the
golf club!”
helped to make a Vickery’s Chambers
address a certificate of solemn business
integrity. The Ebenezer Vickery offices,
once occupying a considerable area of the
ground floor, have long disappeared.
4c * * *
“C.C.A.”: Jews on the land? There
has been settlement of agricultural Jews
at Orrvale, near Shepparton (Vic.), for
years. They are good citizens, too. At
the Shepparton centenary celebrations
the Christians had special services on the
Sunday, and the Jews on the Saturday.
On the following Friday the Mohamme-
dan Albanian settlers held a thanks-
giving service in their mosque.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A somewhat puzzled Adel-
aide Court has been sitting in judgment
on cricketer Victor Richardson. A party
of sportsmen, after drawing a Cup sweep,
were supping, noisily but harmlessly, at
a King William-street piestall. A con-
stable allowed the party to carry on for
some time, and then ordered them to
move on. Richardson discussed this fine
point—pleasantly, he alleged in court:
“I was just going to get into my car.
How far do you require me to move
on?” Then he was arrested as having
refused to do so. It seems possible to
look at the matter either way. The S.M.
contrived to look at it both ways: “Con-
viction ; no penalty.”
* * * *
“Retsol”: A unique sub-branch of the
R.S. and S.L. has its habitat in the m.v.
Westralia, 42 of whose complement of
110 saw war service. On November 14,
when the ship reached Port Adelaide, all
members of the floating sub-branch off
duty went by bus to the War Memorial,
where the president, a steward, laid a
wreath of Sydney-made poppies.
4! * * *
“D.E.”: Perth has of recent months
had some very interesting wills to dis-
cuss, notably those of Tom Molloy, that
persistent candidate for office, and
Charles McNess, the philanthropist.
They were both so wealthy that the
Treasurer must have spent many hours
calculating the effect of their testamen-
tary dispositions on the deficit. Inter-
esting for other reasons was the will of
H. E. Vail, the mining man and patron
of the turf, who left his stud farm in
the Swan valley and all his stallions
and brood mares and his racehorses in
training to a lady with whom the second
Mrs. Vail was once concerned in a
police court case. To his femi-
nine secretary he bequeathed £2OOO,
“my house and land in Cottesloe, and
all books, furniture and accessories in
my Perth office.” The residuary estate
he divided equally between his wife and
his sister, who lives in Santa Cruz, Cali-
fornia. Vail was one of a band of Cali-
fornians who came to Westralia in the
Roaring Days. Another was Callahan,
whose efforts to rip 30,0000 z. a month
out of the Lake View were the talk of
the mining world. The most famous
of them was, of course, Herbert (“Hail
Columbia”) Hoover, afterwards President
of the United States.
* * * *
“J.R.”: “Cauboy’s” tale (B. 9/11/’3B)
of artless theatrical propaganda reminds
me of a stunt perpetrated on the Firm
years ago. A gentleman of American ex-
traction desired to draw attention to his
recently-opened Amusement Park. On
the opening bight of the Royal Italian
Opera Co. ten gentlemen in correct even-
ing dress filed down the aisle and took
their positions side by side in ten front-
row stalls. Each wore a round black
skullcap. As the maestro turned to take
his bow at the conclusion of the over-
ture, a broad streak of light shot from
the spot box on to the orchestra. The
ten gentlemen simultaneously reached up
and removed their caps, revealing com-
pletely bald pates ; nine sported a letter
of the alphabet in black adhesive plaster
and the tenth a figure and a small
“Hey, do you know anythin about car engines?"
letter. Hence WHITE CITY, 6d. The
house gave them a round of applause for
one of the neatest publicity stunts ever
put over, but black skullcaps have been
suspect by the Firm ever since.
“M a y o”: The
owner of a block of
Darlinghurst flats,
who lives on his
premises and deals
with the tenants
direct, had just in-
formed the tempera-
peramental lady in
the basement flat that
if he had any more
complaints from her
about the noise, the
flies, the gas or the
light he would be
reluctantly compelled
to declare a vacancy.
She had no desire to
move on; so when
she went to bed that
night to the accom-
paniment of a rush-
ing sound like
Niagara let loose just
outside her wall she
firmly closed her eyes
and counted sheep.
But she did inquire
next morning, as a
matter of interest,
where the noise came from. An
excited landlord leapt to investigate, tore
his hair and rang frantically for
plumbers. A broken pipe, a terrific
waste of water, a bill for repairs—the
basement lady was invited to speak up as
often as she liked thereafter.
* * * *
“Uramao”: An elaborately equipped
astronomical observatory is on the tapis
for Wellington, M.L. For its con-
struction the Astronomical Institute has
in hand £13,000, a bequest of £2240
made forty-two years ago by Charles
Rooking Carter having thus accumulated.
Carter is reputed to have introduced
rabbits to M.L. He arrived in the colony
in 1857 and was builder of Parliament
Buildings and the original Bank of Aus-
tralia in Wellington. He took up a large
holding of land in the Wairarapa
district, where he gave his name to the
town of Carterton. It was a grave
offence to destroy a rabbit on the Carter
property, and within a decade the whole
district was overrun and settlers were in-
volved in no end of expense.
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: Add to Henniker
Heaton's Dictionary of Dates and penny
postage (B. 9/11/’3B) his note to the
editor of the “Wide World Magazine”:
“I send you a man with a story which, it
true, will stagger the world.” The bearer
was Louis de Rougemont.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Adelaide City Council has
voted £2s,ooo—loan money, of course —
for new municipal baths. The present
structure started in 1863 ; the main pool
was enlarged to 100 ft. in 1911, and has
seen the Cavills, Beaurepaire, Annette
Kellerman, and a host of others, but is
now found inadequate. An odd feature is
that the present lessee, Charles Bastard,
has been in charge for well over half
a century, and succeeded his father, who
had nearly 20 years of management be-
fore that.
* : £ * *
“Chevroford”: Not only pedestrians
and Railways Commissioners regard the
motor-car as a menace. Bishop Hart, of
Wangaratta (Vic.), informed the Anglican
Synod the other day that it was a curse
to the country parson, whose stipend was
swallowed up in keeping his asthmatic
vehicle in commission so that he had no-
thing to spare for books and other neces-
sary requirements of his holy office. I
once struck an elderly clergyman in an
ancient Ford, petrolless, in the middle
of nowhere between Renmark and Mil-
dura,' where petrol is upwards of 3s. 6d.
a gallon. The old padre remarked that
his emoluments amounted to four pounds
a week, and that about £2 10s. went in
keeping his chariot on the roads, or what
passed for roads in that vicinity. He had
a wife and the usual quiverful, and how
they managed to exist on the thirty bob
remaining was a mystery even to him.
His constituents were dotted about over
an area about the size of a medium-sized
English county, and confidently, expected
his attendance at births, deaths and mar-
riages ; consequently he was always travel-
ling. I told him that a couple of hours
back I had passed through a gate which
opened from one unpopulated infinity
into another, and on which was chalked:
“Mrs. Quinn had twins this morning.”
“That’s for me,” he said, smiling with
genuine pleasure. “It means a hundred
miles journey.” He didn’t complain, and
I siphoned into his tank a couple of
gallons, which was the first contribution
I had made to the church for 40 years.
CRACK HARDY!
I like that curt and crisp Australian phrase,
Familiar from Cronulla to Coolgardie
As either “Stone the crows!” or “Spare me
days!”
For all the much-in-little it conveys,
“Crack hardy!”
“When in disgrace with Fortune and men s
eyes” , , .
Always remember that there s still a cai d he
Should never fail to play who aims to rise
Again. Away with vain regrets and sighs,
Crack hardy!
What though the bread upon your board be
stale,
The steak like leather and the butter lardy,
Sustain yourself with thoughts of cakes and
ale;
They’ll yet be yours with gusto to assail.
Crack hardy!
What use, when milk's been spilled, the cat to
whip?
Wiser, however buffeted and jarred, he
Who stiffens steadfastly his upper lip,
Keeps up his tail, and takes the good old tip
“Crack hardy!”
Though failure dog you ever and again,
And luck in knocking at your door be tardy,
“There is a tide in the affairs of men” —
You know the rest. And so, my son, till then,
Crack hardy!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


o
10 for 9d. 20 /or I^6«
E 1865
It’s their extra touch of quality -
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVEN~A"
m
mm
SPECIALLY
PREVENT
MADE
POLITICAL POINTS
Becoming firm all of a sudden, the
P.M. said (1) that Australia won’t give
up New Guinea, and (2) won’t allow
“mass immigration of aliens,” nor
“tolerate any form of block settlement.”
The nation is behind him in both matters.
Since the Germans have acquiesced in
Japanese control of the Carolines and
the Marshalls, they have not a shadow
of a claim to the return of New Guinea,
and as a military nation they must
realise it.
It is odd to read that whisky is J.
Bull’s “greatest single item of export”
to Brother Jonathan, and that “the
whisky duty has been stabilised” in the
trade agreement, to J. Bull’s delight. No
doubt the Republicans will say that
Ambassador Kennedy brought that off.
One of their weeklies has noted with due
solemnity that Ambassador Kennedy
represents two great interests in two
great countries—the United States in
the United Kingdom and Haig and Haig
in the United States.
There are now two Bates in the Sydney
Assembly, a son of the intermittently
voluble cow-farmer who represents the
South Coast having won Wollondilly. He
is U.A.P., and though Gilmore, one of
four Independents, led him on the first
count, U.A.P. preferences gave the young
man a handsome majority. Since the
U.A.P. adopted the open go in “safe”
electorates, it hasn’t lost a seat. It will
lose them fast enough—as it did last
year—if pre-selection is restored at the
instance of the few-score delegates—
chiefly women—who voted for it at the
party conference.
Wharfies at Port Kembla (N.S.W.)
have refused to load pig-iron in a British
steamer, asserting that it will be taken to
Japan. Says their union secretary:
We are putting in operation article 16
of the League of Nations, which declares
sanctions on belligerent nations.
So League law is superior to Australian
law, even when, as in this instance, it is
not applied according to the League
formula. Obviously Litvinov is still
willing to wound —and his troubles if
Australia is hurt in the process!—though
afraid to strike.
T. J. (“Diver”) Hughes, who has
been the people’s watchdog in the West-
ralian Assembly since he became mem-
ber for East Perth in 1936, has formed
what he calls the Democratic party, and
says it will have nine or ten candidates
at next year’s election. One watchdog
is useful, even necessary, but —ten!
Bumble’s craze for duplicating place-
names in the post-office gazetteer has
had a priceless illustration in Sydney.
On Monday of last week the papers
contained full and particular accounts
of the strangling of two unprotected
women —aunt and niece, poor creatures
—in the Melbourne outer suburb of
Glenroy. The Kogarah Council had
offered 10 guineas for a suitable name
for what it calls “our new bayside
suburb,” being flush of loan money, and
that very night it awarded the prize to
a person who had suggested Glenroy.
For the year to September 30 6607
migrants from Europe attached them-
selves to the Australian population, and
there was a loss of 544 persons of
British descent. Among the strangers
Italians (2828) still led, and Greeks
(1052) were second, but there were 867
Germans and 701 Poles, Jews doubtless
preponderating on both lists. September
numbers were 182 Italians and 178 Ger-
mans. Official figures don't reveal how
rapidly Jewish immigration has grown.
They should.
The Anglo-Italian agreement came
into force last week. A dreadful blow
to Eden, Greenwood, Hemingway,
Sinclair, Dreiser, Madame Two-Blues,
Miss Ellen Wilkinson, the “Cronk News,”
our own Stunt Press and all manner of
crusaders by deputy ; but Australians and
Maorilanders, with the Mediterranean,
the Suez Canal and the Red Sea guaran-
teed, will contemplate their sufferings
with equanimity.
Eden has been making a lot of vague
speeches, and one of his press champions
explains that the vagueness is deliberate.
Mr. Eden is awaiting the moment for
a plain statement of his future intentions,
but that moment has not yet arrived. He
is awaiting a more definite crystallisation
of public opinion.
Waiting to see how the cat jumps, in
the language of the vulgah.
It is alleged that all America is in a
towering rage over the treatment of Jews
in Germany, and the New York “Times,”
“The comparative longevity of Victoria’s Dunstan Government is surprising in view
of the frail foundations on which it was built.”
“This is the fourth year you’ve been blooming, old Dunstan-flower. And I
never thought you’d last a month.”
the New York “Sun,” the New York
“Post,” and the New York “Herald-
Tribune” are quoted as witnesses. No
Chicago or Milwaukee or Philadelphia
paper is quoted. The population of
those cities is not 30 per cent. Jew, as is
the population of New York, and dailies
in those cities could take up a pro-
German attitude and live. No New
York daily could.
A Sydney Assembly debate on com-
pensation for dispossessed bus-owners
led to the revelation that Stewart, now
M.H.R. for Parramatta, received £38,628
from the Stevens Government for the
business that Lang wiped out. Former
Senator Arkins had asserted that the
M.H.R. got “next to nothing for his
buses and plant.” Minister Bruxner
replied that Stewart had “made his pile
by running buses along Parramatta-road
in competition with the Government
trams and trains,” and had refused to
carry on when Lang weighed in with a
penny passenger tax. "You paid him
too much,” growled Mr. Badly; he
wouldn’t have got £38,000 from a Labor
Government.” Stewart declares thai
“the buses alone cost me £165,000, and
wants to be heard at the Bar.
The words “home-consumption price
have come to have a hollow, instead of
a magical, sound in the ears of wheat-
growers who have lost their crops, and
in Victoria, S.A., Westralia and parts
of N.S.W. they are numbered by the
thousand. These farmers, or some of
them, are to share in a distribution of
£500,000 from the proceeds of the excise
duty on flour. Their more fortunate
brethren are to divide £3,500,000 or so
at so much a bushel—perhaps 6d.
Bread is to be a shilling the four-
pound loaf in capital cities when the
home-consumption price business is
rounded off by State price-fixing legis-
lation. It is now 10id. in Sydney. Wasn’t
it Stevens who said that it couldn’t pos-
sibly go up?
Casey is putting more patches on what
he calls the “national” insurance plan.
One patch provides that contributions
will begin on May 10 instead of Jan. 2.
This, it is explained, will give more time
for preparation, and it will also give
more time for negotiation with the still-
hostile medical profession, and for
objurgation. There has been brisk com-
petition for members of “approved
societies,” and in some quarters it has
become decidedly acrimonious.
Anti-Chamberlain correspondents and
editors were sure that the mob perform-
ances in Germany would weaken the
Government’s position in all British elec-
torates. They didn’t in Walsall, where
a National Liberal held a Nat.-Lib. seat
by a majority (7158) almost as large as
his predecessor’s general-election advan-
tage over two candidates, but they must
have done in Bridgwater. There Bartlett,
the 8.8. C. and “Cronk-News” man,
standing as Independent Progressive or
something, beat a Chamberlainite, Heath-
cote-Amory, by 19,540 to 17,208. At
the general election Croom-Johnson, a
K.C., since raised to the Bench, got
17,939 votes, a Liberal 7370 and a
Laborite 6240.
W. D. Johnson, now Speaker of the
Westralian Assembly, recalled the other
day that it was “forty years since I
attended the first Labor Congress in
Perth”; and Johnson was actually the
first Labor Assemblyman to be sent to
Perth. But when he contrasts the past
with the present the veteran is not easy
in his mind.
I have begun to wonder whether 40
years of service have got us anywhere.
Political expediency is dissipating what we
have accomplished. Take workers’ homes
—one of the finest things a Labor Gov-
ernment has done. To-day we see a Labor
party handing over this activity from a
Minister to a board.
It is certainly a flagrant example of one
of the most dangerous tendencies of the
time. Fascism is a word with which
knaves frighten fools, but there is a real
danger to democracy in the relegation of
responsibility to royal commissions and
in the delegation of power to boards.
The Emperor show in Fiji hasn’t
quite fulfilled the rosy anticipations of
those who gave 275. for shares now round
1 Is., but Theodore, who is managing
director, is confident that “a net profit
of something over £200,000 a year is
assured for about five years.” Wasn’t
there a coal strike that was to have been
settled 14 days after Theodore and his
friends took office?
Reviewing Roosevelt’s performances,
a writer in Sydney’s “Sunday Sun” de-
clares that the President has “helped ten
million homeowners with loans to beat
off the mortgage shark.” It will be
interesting reading for Pa Denison, now
abroad, and presumably thinking out his
long-delayed reply to young Mr. Packer
concerning the manoeuvres that preceded
the non-appearance of a penny paper in
Sydney. Pa will perhaps conclude that
the article strayed into the wrong paper.
A Westralian farmer to The Bulletin :
That “Watchman” person has got the
women and older children all dithery with
fear for the future. He couldn’t even re-
strain himself on Melbourne Cup day;
that morning, when we were hoping for a
little diversion from the sight of ruined
crops and the thought of the mortgage,
he began, “If an enemy were to attack
Australia.” He speaks mostly to women
and children, and if he iSn’t alarming he
is doleful.
It has come out that “The Watchman”
is E. A. Mann, who was M.H.R. for
Perth, 1922-1929. The revelation must
have lifted a weight from the Westralian
mind.
Burke confessed himself ignorant of
the art of drawing up an indictment
against a whole nation, but the Sydney
“D.T.” knows it perfectly. To the
“D.T.” Germany is “a nation that
deliberately provokes its people to assault
a minority within her borders”—the pro-
nouns are mixed but the meaning is
plain enough. The “D.T.” has also dis-
covered that the U.S.A. took action
against Italy during the “sanctions”
period, when Australia lost its trade with
Italy and had two cruisers in the Medi-
terranean. The nature of the action is
a mystery, except to the U.S.A. and the
“D.T.,” but possibly the paper means
that Sam doubled his petrol sales to
Benito while “sanctions” were raging.
Sydney “D.T.,” blithering again:
A German editor who mentioned that
Italy was short of wheat... .would immedi-
ately be arrested and the paper would be
taken over by the Nazi party....No Ger-
man, outside the inner group of the Nazi
party, knows the amount of Germany’s
national debt or her expenditure on arma-
ments.
In the rival daily the same morning
Prof. Copland wrote, in effect, that he,
a foreigner, knows what the national
income of Germany amounted to in 1937,
how much was derived from investment,
what proportion was taken in taxes, the
total paid in wages and “the annual
burden of foreign debt.” And Copland
never talks through his neck as other
professors do.


IT ALL COMES OUT IN THE WASH.


Spread death and destruction
among the insects that pester
you—lnsectibane powder will
do it with devastating effect.
And Insectibane is safe, non-
irritating, can neither stain
nor taint! For positive results,
INSECTIBANE is your
weapon against every insect
pest- Chemists or stores
throughout Australia can
supply you: ask for Insec-
tibane !
INSECTIBANE
Ic
fi2)USTItIS®
SPRING
FAIR
COMMENCES
MARCH 5,
1939.
Comprising General
Samples, Textiles,
Office Equipment,
Furniture, Photo-
graphic, Sports
Goods, Great
Engineering and
Building Fairs.
EVERY MANUFACTURER . . .
EVERY STOREKEEPER . . .
The Leipzig Fair not only offers the finest values in the newest, best
and most uncommon things—it gives nations an opportunity to get
to know each other better on a practical and technical basis.
Your business success depends upon successful trading or manufacturing
—Leipzig is the logical centre of wise buying.
Information, including Travel Marks and Aski Trading Marks, available
of LARS' G. BRUNDAHL. Commissioner in Australia for the Leipzig
International Industries Fan-. Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney;
C N. KEPPEL, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne; J. M. BEIERS,
305 Queen Street, Brisbane; H. C. ITTERSHAGEN, Shenton Park, W.A.
AUSTRALIAN WOOL WILL BE EXHIBITED.
(GREATER
GERMANY)
c
SIZE 72x60’
PERSONAL ITEM S
O. R. Gayford, Wing-Commander
R.A.F., staff officer in charge of the
Vickers-Wellesleys which reached Aus-
tralia after an effortless two days’ flight
from Ismailia, is no stranger to bombers.
During the war he served in the Eastern
Mediterranean, being second in com-
mand early in 1918 of 62nd Wing’s
R.N.A.S. squadron, then stationed at
Stavros. Before the end came for Tur-
key, Gayford was in many a night raid
on Constantinople. In 1919 he was with
221 Squadron R.A.F. on the Caspian,
assisting Denikin’s forces. Five years
ago he made a record non-stop flight
from Cranwell, Lines, to Cape Town. He
comes as a stranger to Australia, but
was agreeably surprised to find an old
war comrade waiting to welcome him
after 20 years. The Bulletin’s radio
editor, Don B. Knock, filled Lewis drums
and loaded bomb-racks for Gayford
throughout most of his R.N.A.S. service.
Richard Layton Butler, recently
Premier of S.A., now out of Parliament
and fighting a Federal by-election, comes
of a political family, his father, knight
Richard Butler, having been Premier,
Speaker and Treasurer of S.A. R.L., a
EX-PREMIER BUTLER, OF S.A.
graduate of Adelaide Agricultural School,
is a farmer and grazisr when not run-
ning the State’s affairs. He’s 53, was
born in South Australia, succeeded Bar-
well as leader of the S.A. Liberals in
1925, and had terms as Premier 1927-
30 and 1933-38. Plays tennis and golf.
Died in his sleep at 75, George Philip
Barber, Labor M.L.A. for Bundaberg
(Q.) for 33 years from 1901 to 1934,
“Father of the House” for his last two
Parliaments, and secretary of the Parlia-
mentary Labor party for many years.
“G.P.” was working at 12 as an appren-
tice on a trawler out of Lowestoft. He
joined the Salvation Army for service in
India, came to Australia from Bombay in
1889 as a S.A. officer, and saved souls in
several States until his resignation in 1893.
His interest in Q. Labor began when he
worked in sawmills and at Millaquin
sugar refinery ; he came to know Dave
Bowman and other stalwarts. An en-
thusiastic Naval Brigade man, age kept
him from active war service, but he did
useful instruction work at the Naval
Depot.
“C. 8.”: Professor Bernard
Heinze, according to a London
cable, is negotiating for one of
the world’s greatest symphony
orchestras to visit Australia
under A.B.C. auspices (A.B.C.
denies any such intention).
Though he has lately had to
take a back seat in favor
of Schneevoigt, Szell, Harty
and Sargent, he did most
of the spadework which
made orchestral concerts so
fashionable in Melbourne.
The Shepparton-born conductor
was educated at St. Patrick’s
College, Ballarat, a factory of
musicians, at Melb. Uni. and
the Royal College of Music,
London. After a three years’
interlude as an artilleryman in
France, he won the Gowland
Harrison scholarship in 1920,
and studied under Vincent
D’lndy in Paris and Willy Hess
in Berlin. He was appointed to
Melb. Uni. in 1924, founded
the Melb. String
ducted the Uni. Symphony
Orchestra from 1924 to 1932
and the Melbourne Symphony
Orchestra since 1933. On his
present visit to Europe he has been con-
sidered good enough to conduct half a
doze_n of the greatest orchestras.
Earl Beauchamp, who died in New
York at 66, while on a visit of reunion
with members of the American branch
of the Lygon family, had many links
with Australia. He arrived in Sydney
as Governor of New South Wales in
1899, preluding his arrival with a tele-
gram from Albany with a third-
person amended version of Kipling’s
quatrain about Sydney which commences
“Greeting! My birthstain have I turned
to good,” and was mildly puzzled at the
storm of indignation the reference pro-
voked. “For birthstains, take Beauchamp’s
Pills” was The Bulletin’s comment. A
handsome young bachelor (he was only
27), Beauchamp seemed cut out for social
successes, but he was that rare bird an
aristocratic democrat, and sought the
company of writers and artists, to the
dudgeon of affluent and titled business-
folk. In recent years Beauchamp, who
had formed a strong affection for Sydney
during his term at Government House,
revisited the city on two or three occa-
sions, making long sojourns. He en-
joyed the surf-bathing at Bondi, and
vastly admired the lifesavers, whom he
remembered annually with the gift of a
keg of beer. That rare distinction the
Knighthood of the Garter came his way
in 1914, partly as a recognition of the
fact that, though the present earldom
dates only from 1815, the family line was
ennobled by Henry VI. in 1447, the title
lapsing in 1496. The death in an acci-
dent of his second son, the Hon. Hugh
Lygon, who accompanied his father on
his first revisit to Australia, was a great
blow to the Earl.
“Mahlstick”: A lot has been said
about Earl Beauchamp’s liking for artists
and poets during his term as Governor
of N. S. Wales, but it isn’t generally
known that he was an artist himself of
no mean calibre. His branch was sculp-
ture. He submitted two of his works in
this medium to the Royal Academy
under an assumed name, and they were
accepted and drew very favorable com-
ment, after which the identity of the
sculptor was divulged. In Sydney he was
an assiduous private-viewer of art shows,
and he never came out of one without
leaving one or more red seals behind.
In short, he was one of the most practical
and helpful patrons of art N. S. Wales
ever harbored.
lustice George Edward Rich, of the
High Court, was born at Braidwood,
N. S. Wales, 75 years ago, the son of a
canon of Sydney Cathedral. He was
JUSTICE RICH.
(Modelled by Frith.)
educated at Sydney Grammar and Syd-
ney Uni., graduating M.A. at the age
of 22. He was called to the Bar two
years later, climbed steadily, wearing silk
by 1911, and in the same year was
elevated to the N. S. Wales Supreme
Court Bench. Two years later he was
appointed to the High Court. A
K.C.M.G. came his way in 1932, and two
years ago he was made a Privy Coun-
cillor. His eldest son was killed in action
at Festubert in 1915.
Andrew Fairweather, general manager
of Broken Hill South, is S’Australian-
born, and graduated from Adelaide Uni.
Mining School. After getting experience
as a mullocker in the Central mine, he
was appointed to the staff of the adjoin-
ing South mine in 1904. He climbed to
his present position last year via the jobs
of chief surveyor, underground manager
and mine superintendent, holding the
last-named for 17 years. As president of
the Mine Managers’ Association at
Broken Hill, he is at present up to his
neck in negotiations with the Barrier
unions over the new wages agreement.
If anybody can help towards getting in-
dustrial peace in the Silver City, Fair-
weather, with his first-class knowledge
of the industry, can.
Tom Pope, an old-time Adelaide
lawyer who “retired” to Devonshire a
whole generation ago, has died at 85.
Though Adelaide had well-nigh for-
gotten him, he has remembered it. His
will leaves £lOOO to his old suburban
church, and the Anglican Cathedral gets
£3OOO (presumably £4OOO by the time it
reaches here), plus one fourth of what-
ever the residue of his £38,000 estate
may prove to be.
There is one man who has a good
word to say for an aspect of Hitler’s
dictatorship. He is knight Hughie
Devine, of Melbourne. After visiting
the leading hospitals of the Continent
and England, Devine settled down for
six months’ study of the post-graduate
work in Germany, where clinics are
financed by the Government and a ter-
rific lot of money is spent on training
doctors and equipping institutions.
Equipment which is merely a golden
dream for most Australian specialists
can be obtained at a few days’ notice.
Devine is one of Melbourne’s leading
surgeons. He was born at Little River
and educated at St. Patrick’s College
and Melbourne Uni.
A link with Australia snapped when
Admiral Sir Herbert Edward Purey-Cust
died at 81 in England. He was on the
Australian station at the end of the last
century, when he married a daughter
of the man who pioneered Smeaton (Vic.),
George Hepburn. He made some re-
markable explorations and surveys, par-
ticularly one of the Congo River, which
got him the job of hydrographer to the
R.N. He was in charge of the Scapa
Flow minesweepers during the Great
War.
Prof. T. H. Laby, who has been giving
evidence before the Kyecma committee,
occupies the chair of natural philosophy
at Melbourne University and has a
high reputation for research. He studied
under Prof. Thomson, 0.M., and had a
part in the development of the first anti-
gas respirators, but it was as a member
of the Australian Radio Research Board
that he gave evidence at the Kyeema
inquiry. He was born 58 years ago at
that factory of talent Creswick (Vic.),
which was Norman Lindsay’s birth-
place.
Rowing was in the blood of R. D.
Edwards, dead at 78 in Melbourne.
He, his six brothers and two sisters were
all born in the famous sheds his boat-
builder father built on the Yarra above
Princes Bridge in the fifties of last cen-
tury. Edwards, senior, was a Thames
waterman until he came to Australia,
and every one of his sons took to the
water, either as a coxswain or a sculler,
and, as often as not, won their victories
in racing eights made by themselves
and their father. The second eldest of
the family, R.D., was one-time cham-
pion sculler of Victoria.
W. R. Fincham, one of the pillars of
the Legacy Club, of which he has been
a member for ten years, and hon. sec.
since April, 1937, is a Sydney solicitor.
Born at Balmain (Sydney) in 1894, he
was educated at Sydney High and Sydney
W.R. FINCH AM.
Uni., graduating in arts in 1916 and in
law in 1922. For some years he prac-
tised in Wagga (N.S.W.), but has been
back in Sydney for the last ten years.
Plays golf.


II
SHU GRIP
v
ALX-
way-
TR ACTION
dsf
GOODYEAR’S
NEW TRACTOR
TYRE!
T . surest-footed, hardest-pulling
by Goodyear to g lh „
rrs%. '' id ' sly
tread with its § self . c l e aning.
spaced for effic,■* ““ pitc h-
Notice the wide , angl „ and
the big earth-cutting Moulders
5"; bi. •*-*?£!£££>
sidewalls —all built for extra
ThlS - J eft SeSuttwS;, "cut-
special ch *e sharp-
- -
STSSS- -^
tractor tyres
All-Way-Traction. Rice
The Sure-qnP; ll ßibb ed-with
Field. Cane * iel * JJLe'd to give maxi-
S£«££ "n £s£?d}£&
requirements.
»- gi ,rtu
intend to uy * t delivered on
instructions to have
Goodyear Tractor iy
EXTENDED TEgMS '' and Wheels are available
Goodyear Tractor partic ulars, write
G n o^ e ea?Branl (all capita! cities).
More Tractors
are fitted with
GoodyearTyres
than with any
other tyre
>
# >
/'tfV
/
s
>5
&
fll
&
I
0
f
fSURE
GRIP
SEND FOR INTERESTING LITERATURE on
the advantages of pneumatic tyres for trac-
tors and farm machinery. Goodyear Tyre &
Rubber Co. Branches in all capital cities.
NAME.
ADDRESS
B. 118.
TRACTOR TYRES


ABORIGINALITIES
“ Don't move whatever you do — we're betting a couple of coconuts on this."
“Old-timer”: It was an Armistice Day
service, and a speaker drew a harrowing
picture of the sufferings of the soldiers
in France and Flanders 20 years ago.
Outside the hall rain poured down from
a sullen November sky. Inside the door,
teetering, stood a man with an umbrella
which he had forgotten to lower. Tears
coursed down his cheeks as the speaker
waxed eloquent, and as the speech reached
its climax with a call to the nation to
do something for the “brave boys now
in them declining yeais the sobbing man
with the umbrella turned and stumoied
from the hall into the rain. When the
audience emerged, it found that the
preacher s appeal had already borne
fruit, for, precariously clinging to the
stone figure of the Anzac on the local
memonal, the still-sobbing drunk was
shielding its head from the rain with
his umbrella. * +
“Rill Roredrain”- The birds of WO
know all about droughts, and when a dry
time comes do not hesitate to travel
long distances in search of fresh fields
and pastures new. During the lean years
nf thp latp ’twenties the ereat mainritv
of birds left this district fn.-w. Q.) and
were very slow in returning. When the
central-west was in drought in 1935
plain-turkeys abounded on the coastal
country between Bowen and Proserpine.
However, this year their migration was
reversed, no doubt owing to the drought
in the south. I have never known such
numbers of turkeys, crows, hawks, mag-
pies and willie-wagtails here before ; also
a good showing of ground birds (larks,
quail, etc.), which are, of course, followed
by the brown falcon. Incidentally, al-
though conditions appear ideal, we have
been free from blowfly so far this year.
A coincidence, I wonder?
* * * a
“Hanko”: Time was when I poked my
frame into various odd corners of this
country, but I didn’t trip over snipe
enough to make me class them as
common (B. 9/11/ ’3B), and some of the
few I managed on occasion to shoot
always brought me around 7s. 6d. the
brace. Any poultry that goes at 3s. 9d.
the handful isn’t common, especially when
it is nothing to rave over as fodder.
Still, this long-billed Siberian fowl some-
times occurs in unlikely places. A
neighbor got fifteen on the back beach at
Williamstown, a Melbourne suburb!
* * *
“M.V.”: “Sir Spen” joins the crowd
of experts who have been laying down
the law on the question of the stopping-
power of certain projectiles (B. 9/11/’3B).
He says that an ordinary .303 bullet with
the point filed off will hit just as hard as
the Paradox shotgun referred to by
several. It will hit a great deal harder.
The almost smoothbore Paradox cart-
ridge carries nothing like the load of the
.303 cordite h.p. rifle, and it is the charge
that counts in such cases, just as
Gregory’s tremendous arm-swing and
propulsive power sent the ball down
faster than Colin Blythe’s sleepy high
tosses. Both sorts are equally effective,
eacb beine s j ven tbe conditions to suit it.
* _
“F Y 7” • The nieht noise “Cicada”
heard (B. 9/11/’3B) was made by the
nankeen heron, to give him his naturalist’s
label. In Western Queensland he is known
as the barking crane, and he must be
distributed pretty well all over the world.
Writer has met him in South Africa and
India. A couple hang about the Blue
Mountains resort where I abide and
squawk monotonously at night. The
handsome little bird is never seen far
from water.
-
“Psittacus”: The importance of adver-
tising we jj in us t ra ted by a Queensland
happening. Recently a finely illustrated
book Qn Australian parrots was pub-
ii S hed, having on the dust-cover a picture
m co j ors 0 f a supposedly extinct parrot
w | tb a p ecu har color scheme every
green feather is tipped with black. The
book was hardly a month on the market
when an amateur naturalist reported
from Queensland that he had just seen
a . ~ C( \ u^ e d i rds ’ which he had iden-
fifi ed fro™ P?/ traits on the book-
c ° ver - , N ,? do , ubt the lf. re m^ ny ?’
sh y a ” d little-known birds and am
lon S deemed extinct still in the land of
living if people know what to look
and where. Even our childh
P al the bunyip may on occasion revisit
gbmpses of the moon.
*** , *
“Spare Walton”: Sorry my misspelling
of ceratodus has narked “Dewey” (B.
9/11/ ’3B), but I can always blame that
on to the compositors. The Burnett
salmon is another matter. Early settlers
gave this name to the sluggish old cera-
todus because of its pink flesh. The fish
“D.” is thinking of is the barramundi, a
magnificent game fish whose beautiful
silver armor and great fighting qualities
bring it into line with its brother of the
Northern Hemisphere and have earned it
its nickname. The barramundi, like the
real salmon, is delicious eating, and is
found in hundreds of rivers north of the
Burnett. Like the real salmon, it goes to
sea part of the year, returning to spawn
in fresh waters.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’ve struck a
variety of waters in W.A., ranging from
good to downright bad, and it’s been my
experience that the better-tasting it is
(barring pure rainwater) the quicker it
will rot a tank. Most minerals in water
have a distinct taste, and some you can
“feel” ; they make it “hard.” Are there
any with a strong corrosive action that
are tasteless or improve the taste?
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: I’ve often wondered
why the average amateur fisherman puts
such faith in a sinker as an essential part
of any fishing-line, irrespective of current,
drift or depth. The idea seems to be
that fish never come off the bottom, and
that unless the bait is anchored there it
will attract nothing. As a matter of fact,
most bottom-feeding fish keep a bright
lookout for anything overhead. jl’ve
caught many a good snapper on mack-
erel trail lines in 20 fathoms and more,
and occasionally even such a typical
bottom resident as flathead. Of course,
in a strong current or drift a sinker is
needed, but it should be as lignt. anct
unobtrusive as possible, and so shaped
as to minimise risks of snagging on
Some of the best market fish I've
sen ‘ww'aVnke/woukf have
oyster-b ds, v tj Tbe
JPff. , " t c]ear L the aaninn
rnndnuallv over new
a , 8
teeaing-gro
* * ti * , *
“Ped O’Mug”: “Dinkum George and
Barney were sitting by the fire in the
commercial room of a far-north S.A.
pub when a yoU ng jackeroo, who had
j ust arrived with a mob of sheep for
midnight trucking, came in and monopo-
]jsed the fire by boiling his billy over it.
when he’d gone Barney asked George
wbo be was . “Don’t y’ know him ?” said
George. “That’s the bloke who reckons
he could easy raise a thousand frogskins
f or the flying doctor ’corse his sister’s a
leading society dame in Adelaide. Yairs,
and when the kids were collectin’for the
mission picnic he gives ’em a trey. A
lousy trey, mind yer, and a fettler had
just give ’em five bob!
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: The emu is regarded
jj y having a digestive apparatus
generally as navuig w
enable of: dealing wrth and
like, but Im w g ,
cockatoo against any emu that ever swal-
lowed a ploughshare. Las
took off his wristlet vvatc
of heavy work anc S b j n „
about it until he
sound, and discovered the pet cocky
cracking the watch glass and downing it
with enjoyment. As the hands and face
had already gone, the irate watch-owner
decided to let the bird go on with his
meal in the fond hope that the so-an’-so
would choke his blanky self. Cocky
managed to extract and swallow miscel-
laneous parts, and, although he retired to
his perch in rather a thoughtful mood
and stayed there for two days, he ap-
peared to suffer no other ill-effects.
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: The two martyrs (B.
2/11/’3B) misjudge me. 1 did know how
to use the quart-pot. It was my number-
nine toe-mark impressed on its side. If
my detractors like to suffer for the black-
jack I shall not deny them their self-
inflicted penalty. The pot has ceased to
be a plague to the real bushman. As for
boiling it with chips piled against the
side, that can be done more expeditiously
with the billy, and, if you know your
bushcraft, you can pour out the tea with-
out dividing it over the lug. The bottom
of the billy does not get hot. Just take
the handle in one hand and tilt the
bottom with the other. You won’t burn
yourself. You don’t have to use cross-
sticks or cross-anything-else. I admit
the merits of the pot as a carry-all, but
my interest is in tea and something that
will boil the water for it.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: King Solomon
couldn’t have done much better in the
way of a commonsense decision than did
the judge in the “best turnout” competi-
tion at the last Tweed (N.S.W.) Show.
The two in the final were perfect sulkies
without a loose spoke, harness-fault, spot
of mud, bent step or empty lamp ; both
horses were trimmed like Hollywood
actors, and had their hoofs polished
equally brightly. The judge pondered.
“Have you got any matches?” he asked
one owner. The reply was negative.
“Then how are you going to light the
lamps?” The rival competitor silently
produced a box of safeties and held them
beside his exhibit. The verdict went to
him. The Australian Solomon explained
later that a cut cushion in the matchless
one’s turnout levelled the two to an abso-
lute equality, and that the matches took
a bit of thinking. The winner, in true
sporting spirit, said that it was only be-
cause the other chap had given up smok-
ing that he’d won.
“Mr. . Stopes”: The prolonged suck-
ling of children by Centralian (and other)
abo. mothers (B. 26/10/’3B) is practised
not so much because of lack of suitable
infant food as from the belief that such
suckling materially assists in keeping the
stork away. Primitive peoples the world
over practise it. It was, in fact, practi-
cally the only contraceptive that our own
foremothers possessed. As a check it
is not positive, but Nature has made it
at least 75 p.c. efficient. Were it not so
primitive women would be worn out of
existence by incessant childbearing,
whereas they invariably live longer than
the males.
4= !lc 4= *
“Pisces”: Would like to know what
part of the Barrier Reef it was that
“James W.” could pull up a coral cod
from a depth of 200 ft. (B. 2/11/’3B).
Those fellows live up to their names and
stay in the coral at the edge of the reef.
The deepest water on the continental
shelf is a small pothole off Plan-
ton Island, Whitsunday Passage, which
is less than 300 ft. deep, and the average
depth is 14 fathoms. And if “James”
was a real fisherman he wouldn’t stop
short at the biting ability of the coral
cod; he’d go into raptures about the
delicacy and the richness of the flesh of
this best-eating fish of the coral seas.
* 4: * *
“Nor’-west”: The native bee, appar-
ently disappearing, has no sting—for
which mercy many a bushman has been
grateful. For there are places and times,
such as the lower East Kimberley towards
the end of the “dry” season, when the
little blowfly-like fellows demonstrate a
passion for moisture, finding supplies on
the human body. In pursuit of this they
will crawl up one’s pants, down one’s neck
or up the sleeves of one’s shirt. And to
be constantly digging out bees from
various parts of the anatomy is a joke
that soon palls. But if they had a sting
coupled with this persistent intrusion
what a time the bushman would have!
The abo., to combat such attentions, and
also those of myriads of flies and mos-
quitoes, frequently coats himself thickly
with mud and lets it dry on. Very effec-
tive whilst in the resting pose, but a
bit cracky when the mud-suited gentle-
man starts to walk.
MORNING STAR.
Roaming away on a bygone day, by a golden
vision spelled,
A colleen went with a brave intent in her
fond heart firmly held:
The sunlit plains and the free domains of a
new land lured her on
From home and hearth to the ends of the earth,
whdre a roving van had gone.
Swinging again to a soft refrain as the waves
break wild and free,
Till the wind is drowned in the chanty’s sound
or the roar of “Bonnie Dundee.”
The spars o’erhead with her white wings spread
as she runs her easting down,
A bluff, black ship in her roll and dip is
making for Melbourne town.
Not seventeen! and the seas between the land
of your birth and you
Grew wider yet as, with all sails set, that
ship to her haven drew.
Not seventeen, but your heart I ween was brave
as the world can show,
Who dared alone to a land unknown in the
days of long ago.
The voices clear that you loved to hear, the
song of the skylark o’er
The lush land rare, and the dance and fair
would be with you evermore;
The meadow dew would be calling you, the
mist on the morning hills,
The clear boreen with its rushes green and
the little purling rills.
The smiles, the tears of those far-off years,
their hopes and their dreams have sped.
Now white stones stand in Forever-land where
silently sleep the dead!
But far and far when the great South Star
shines over these Gippsland trees
I hear the sigh of a wind gone by, see a girl
on the darkened seas.
VICTORIA.
E.J. BRADY.


“Notaden”: Mr. Jacky Kookaburra is
essentially a publicity-artist of the sound
old opportunist school which developed
the best of our pre-Federation politicians.
Grafton (N.S.W.) recently burst into a
centenary, and part of the show was a
radio broadcast of Jacky’s best platform
asset, the laugh. Jacky attended in force,
but there wasn’t even a chuckle out of
one of him until the last machine-made
“Hoo-ah” died away. Then from every
lovely tree in Grafton’s jacaranda-
shaded main street came the real thing in
strength, volume and uproariousness that
completely abolished the mechanical
rival. Dozens of performers rocked with
delight on their branches as they achieved
an ear-splitting crescendo and bumped it
along to the final throaty gurgle of com-
plete sardonic enjoyment of such a
magnificent opportunity for profitable
advertisement. And what’s more, they
kept it up at intervals for the rest of the
day.
j|» jj; jjc
“The 0.D.”: Tell “Scolopax” (B.
9/11/38) that my pen-name has nothing
to do with Ireland. Years ago a mate
frequently described himself as “a
drifter” ; I was as frequently referred to
as the other one.
* * * *
“Sir Spen”: Bohena Creek, that sandy-
bottomed watercourse which winds its
way through Pilliga Scrub (N.S.W.) from
a point near Coonabarabran until it
junctions with the Namoi River a few
miles downstream from Narrabri West,
is a curiosity. In normal seasons its
waters, over certain lengthy sections, flow
above its sandy bed during the night, but
when touched by the rays of the morning
sun promptly disappear beneath the sur-
face. When cloudy days obtain the
vanishing trick is forgotten. This
phenomenon is no serious handicap to
the thirsty denizens of the Scrub. Long
since have they learned that the thirst-
quenching fluid is flowing a short distance
below the apparently dry river bed, and
that a few energetic scratches with paw,
claw or beak will enable them to drink
their fill. Domestic animals soon learn
the trick.
* * * »
“Peterbrook”: Doing the rounds on a
big station beyond Collarenebri (N.S.W.)
I came across a complete leg of an emu
entangled in twisted fence-wires. Tracks
showed the fowl had been to a near-by
waterhole before hooking itself in the
wires, and the struggle to get free must
have been furious, as the leg was
wrenched off from the hip. There was
no sign of the bird within a radius of a
mile or two, and as the limb was only a
day old at the most, and as nobody ever
passed that way except myself, I’m still
baffled.
* * * *
“Ploto”: Gold is where you find it,
and when you do find it the next question
is, “How did it get there?” This question
has been asked repeatedly by poultrymen,
slaughterers, roadmenders, brides and
their best friends, and other prospectors,
The latest inquirer is a Tallangatta (Vic.)
angler who grassed a rainbow-trout from
the Mitta. The fish was a nine-pounder ;
a 3dwt. 6gr. slug of gold in its innards
helped it to tip the scale.
* * * *
“Colly”: “We was bag-sowin’ out
Parkes (N.S.W.) way, where wheat is the
size of peas and every grain is a ball
of muscle,” said Aloysius. “Me mate’d
ordered a pair of boots from Sydney,
but they sent eights instead of nines. I
suggested ’e fill ’em with moist wheat
to stretch ’em. ’E did, standing a little
“Hello, b'low! Tell whas-is-name I want un."
“Hurry, dear, I've got your favorite dish—rabbit pie!"
pine pole in the mouth of each boot to
keep the wheat in ; then ’e leans ’em
against the wall of the hut. It was a
’ot night, an’ next mornin’ when we woke
up ’arf the roof was gorn. We rushed
outside, an’ there was a great pile of
steamin’ wheat but no rails an’ no boots.
Yair, it ’ad shoved the poles up and
they’d taken ’arf the roof with ’em and
finished on the other side of the hut. But
what 'urt Bill most was when we
shovelled for ’arf an hour to shift the
wheat and on’y found a few bits of soggy
leather underneath.”
* * * *
“Thylacine”: The Tassie Government
expedition which is to explore the wild
west coast of the Speck to see if there
are any signs of the continued existence
of the “Tasmanian tiger” will not attempt
to catch any of the curious beasts if these
are encountered, but will note their num-
bers —again if any—and food supply.
This last is most important. When the
white man invaded Tasmania he drove
the carnivorous marsupial’s natural food
from its old haunts, and when it tried
to compensate with the settlers’ sheep
swift destruction followed. The “tiger”
is unusual, even among marsupials ; it
is the only one of the race with the
pouch opening backwards.
* * * *
“Turoar”: “Things must be pretty
crook in the city,” said Old Bob. “The
other night I’m list’nin’ inter the com-
munist singin’, and there’s a bloke goin’
ter play somethink ’e calls ‘Tales frum
Orphins’ on the flute. Well, ’e ’as a few
tries, but there’s somethink wrong with
’is flute, and’ ’e can’t git ago on. At
last ’e roars out ‘Give me ’ay!’ There’s
a lot uv funny thumpin’ on th’ pianner
while they chase up some ’ay fer ’im.
But it’s no good, an’ they ’aster git th’
crowd singin’. Just shows yer wot a
crook season they’ve ’ad. Dicin’ ’ave no
’ay in a place like Melbin fer a bloke
ter clean ’is flute with! ”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: It’s the time of the year
for crop stories ; here are my entries. Gus
Domaschenz, of Yorketown (S.A.), once
grew a fine crop of wheat; it was fence-
high, level as a billiard-table and
promised to yield
heavily. Just as it was
ripening a stiff north
wind laid it flat. Lift-
ing attachments for
dealing with lodged
crops were then a
rarity ; the local agent
couldn’t supply one,
nor could any farmer
in the district. That
night the wind shifted
to the south; when
Gus went out next
day the crop was
standing up again
with hardly a fallen
straw to show that it
had even been flat. Just
as lucky was a farmer
in the Naracoorte dis-
trict two seasons ago ;
he cut a heavy green
crop of oats for en-
silage, and the stack
that he made later
took first prize in a
fodder conservation
competition. Before
stock could be put
on the stubble a
heavy thunderstorm
passed over the farm and the oats grew
again from the root; the farmer let the
second crop grow, another rain filled out
the heads, and he harvested an excellent
sample that scored third prize in the
same competition. But the unluckiest man
I ever heard of had a fine wheat crop,
just coming out in ear, on the south
side of a paddock of grass. A fire swept
across the grass, entered the wheat, and
ran right through it, carried on by the
dry flags below the green heads. Viewed
a few hours after the fire the crop
appeared to be undamaged, but next
morning the whole lot lay shrivelled and
useless. It was uninsured.
* * * *
“C.G.8.”: The tiny gossamer spider
first gets elevation, then spins out a length
of web, and the faintest breeze is sufficient
for his gliding stunt. Such wingless flight
is impossible in wet weather. If, there-
fore, the silvery threads still cover the
ploughing up to sundown, then the
morrow will be fine ; but if the rest of
the paddock is thickly covered while the
sod that has been turned since mid-
afternoon shows no web, then it will rain
before sunrise. They seem to work
double time on the latter occasion. The
chance of error in weather prophecy lies
in the human interpretation, but never
with the spider.
* * * *
“Dougal”: Travelling recently in the
s.-w. of W.A., I chanced upon a place
covered with fallen jarrah saplings. All
had been torn up by the roots. Noticing
one of the inhabitants of the district near
I remarked to him that it must have
been a pretty bad willy-willy that had
flattened them. “ ’Tweren’t no willy-willy
blew them down,” he drawled. “It’s the
rich soil round these parts causes it. The
flamin’ trees grow so quick they keep
on pullin’ themselves up by the blasted
roots.”
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: I tow in the water-
spaniel as the most unsuitable of all dogs
for water sports. Half an hour of jump-
ing in and swimming out will bring him
to an untimely end. Even when he is
half-drowned he will go in again after a
stick or a ball. He doesn’t die at once.
He goes mad and ends with a brainstorm.
If you own a water-spaniel, keep him
away from rivers and lakes and bathe
him in a tub, being careful not to let
any water get into his ears.
* * * *
“Jim D.”: These blokes maggin’ about
marks on trunks growin’ up with the
trees reminds me of the big drought of
1902. Stumped for feed, I leased a block
of scrub land with plenty of water and
rough grass. It wasn’t fenced, so I run
three wires from saplin’ to saplin’ round
about 1000 acres, ahd turned me 50 bul-
locks in to take their chance. Then the
drought broke, and we had 15in. in one
night. I didn’t bother no more about
me cattle, havin’ plenty to occupy me
mind puttin’ in me crop. A month or
so later, me home paddocks bein’ pretty
well grassed, I rides out to bring the mob
in, but not a blasted hoof could I find.
I thought at first that someone had
pinched me wires, but aftgr a bit I spots
them about 15ft. in the air. Yair, the
flamin’ saplin’s growin’ after rain had
taken the wires up with them.
A JUSTIFIED REPRISAL.
“There’s lots o’ blokes, y’ll find,” said Sam
the Shuffler, “ ’oo display
An urge to ’ave a barney with their neighbors
ev’ry day.
They’re cranks, o’ course; an’ some of ’em —the
shrewd bush-lawyer sort —
Will sue y’ ev’ry charnce they get. It seems
their favorite sport.
“I run a small selection once. ’Twas up at
Geebung Flat;
An’ Mac, me neighbor, ’e was just a nahsty
cove like that.
I’d stopped a fine through ’im because me
dorg at night would bark
An’ then again because I’d donged the cow;
’e was a nark!
“One evenin', just on dark, ’e comes in roarin’
to my joint;
Me fowls ’is scratchin’ up ’is yard, or some
such quibblin’ point.
I tells ’im, nice an’ friendly like, that ’e can
’op to ’ell;
’E stamps orf breathin’ threats; an’ then I
’ears a blasted yell.
“The bull that’s in me yard ’ad charged, and
Mac in consequence
’As ripped ’is clobber and ’imself upon me
barbed-wire fence.
’E ’as me up fer damages: you should’ve seen
’is phiz
When 1 ’ad proof—right to the ’ilt —the flamin’
bull was ’is.
“ ’E didn’t ’ave a leg to stand on then, an’
lorst the case;
Y’ see, I’d loaned me bull that day—’e’s down
at Creeley’s place.
Not on’y that, 1 goes ’im scone-’ot in a counter
claim
An’ gets substantial damages. That fixed ’is
little game.
“O’ course, I don’t suppose 1 could’ve worked
it quite so well
Except for Ted, me brother, up from town
there on a spell:
As “Alick Smith” ’e gets a job with Mac —
’is own name’s barred.
Twas ’im that broke the fence an’ druv
Mac’s bull into me yard!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ADAMS’ (TATTERS ALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
I,uncli from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.). Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.)
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M4OOl
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; IV. 11. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.\Ym. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
cnis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
LONDON TIN CORPORATION, LTD
FOR THE QUARTER ENDED 30TH SEPTEMBER, 1938.
f
The Estimated Mine Profit is from permitted quota sales before providing depreciation and overhead charges.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
The “WILD CAT” MONTHLY is
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
2 / - per copy, or £ 1 / 2 / 6 per annum posted
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Southern Cross Assurance
This co. was promoted by Thomas
Confoy in 1921. He got £12,500 in
8 p.c. cum. prefs. and £lOOO cash, and
became governing director. He resigned
in 1936 “in accordance with the terms of
his agreement,” whatever they might be.
Here are the co.’s performances over the
last decade:
Ordinary Branch.
Ex- Surplus
June, Income. Claims, penscs. Income. Funds.
MM & £.
1928 .. 183,736 128,187 36,074 44,254
1929 .. 208,341 33,716 131,785 42,840 87,094
New Era Oo.’s business bought.
Added funds, £28,314 .. .. .. 115,408
Added purchase account, £20,068 .. 95,340
1930 .. 223,797 29,911 136,624 57,262 152,602
Australian Group Co.’s business bought.
Added funds, £27,003 179,605
Added purchase account, £13,925 .. 165,680
1931 .. 221,139 40,599 113,733 66,807 232,487
Written off shares, etc., £11,138 .. 221,349
Added establishment account, £lO .. 221,339
1932 . . 195,736 61,389 01,499 42,848 264,187
Written off shaves, etc., £11,517 .. 252,670
1933 .. 203,535 58,333 101,809 43,393 296,063
Written off shares, etc., £22,464 .. 273,599
1934 .. 195,719 01,518 91,424 42,7?7 316,376
Written off various ussets, £15,498 .. 300,878
1935 .. 190,425 67,906 70,912 51,007 352,485
Written off various assets, £10,288 .. 342,197
1936 . . 186,590 67,737 08,051 50,205 392,402
Written off, £0326 386,076
1937 . . 192.389 78,271 74,008 40,050 420,126
Written oft, £9825 416,301
1938 .. 205,432 81,521 82,966 40,945 457,246
Written off, £6682 .. .. .. 450,504
The aim at the start was large business,
and that meant both a vigorous and ex-
pensive campaign—growth was hastened
by purchase of the A.P.A.’s S’African
business, what was left of the New Era
(heavy lapses and high costs crippled it)
and the life contracts of the Australian
Group and General. In 1934 it was
decided to “restrict the costly writing of
new business.” Two years later reorgan-
isation of the co. was reported complete
“in accordance with the directors’ plans,”
future policy being “to gradually increase
the writing of new business without in-
curring additional overhead,”
The writing of new business has moved
according to plan, but it has been diffi-
cult to make much impression upon
costs. The volume of new business put
on the books last year (£1,039,337, up
£249,051) was the best since 1934:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Proposals accepted . . 2,69 Q 3,695 4,974
Total new policies .. £604,043 £790,286 £1,039,337
First premiums .. 19.134 25,977 34,624
Renewal premiums .. 135,617 132,746 133,773
Consideration annuities 750 300
Interest, rent, etc. . . 31.095 33,666 36,735
Total income .. 186,596 192,389 205,432
The average amount per policy was £209
as against £213 for 1937, and the average
premium per cent. £3 15s. Bd. as against
£3 14s. Id. Including consideration for
annuities, net premium income (£168,697)
was £9947 better. Including surrenders
(£14,494, down £B6BB—a heartening
movement), claims were £3250 heavier,
but still within actuarial expectation.
Exes, were up £BB9B, mainly on account
of a growth of £8335 in commissions,
etc. (£34,263), on new business; office
exes, and rates (£33,115) were reduced
by £lBll. Excluding interest payments
(£5406) and taxes (£2714), exes, took
44.3 p.c. of the year's net premiums as
against 43, 40.5 and 40.3 p.c. for the
three preceding terms. The growth in the
expense rate is due to various things,
When the ratio is reduced to about half
last year’s figure the position will look
a lot more attractive.
It is on interest earnings that the co.
appears to score most. The office assumes
that the life fund will turn in a clear
4 p.c. After deducting the interest
payments and taxes referred to, last
year’s interest receipts were equal to, a
net effective rate of £4 4s. 7d. p.c. as
against £4 6s. 7d. p.c. for the previous
term and £3 13s. lid. p.c. for 1935.
The protection for policy-holders and
shareholders is in this form:
1931. 1937. 1938.
Freeholds, etc £ 199,823 £462,107 £516,905
Equipment . . . . 24,285 20,149 22,303
Govt, securities . . 138,090 123,350 123,360
Mortgages, etc 76,174 30,298 80,798
Loans on policies .-. 22,194 82,795 79,493
Shares other cos., etc. 13,885 25,451 23,726
Book debts .. .. 90,834 63,312 70,854
Cash 12,987 3,102 2,950
Tangible assets . . £577,772 £810,564 £870,389
Liabilities* .. .. 55,022 96,090 122,327
Net tangible assets .. £522,150 £713,808 £748.062
* Other than under policies.
Of the tangible assets 58.4 p.c. was repre-
sented by freeholds at June 30, up £54,798
over the twelvemonth. Net tangibles in-
creased by £34,194, reaching £748,062.
Assuming that the life fund (£708,066)
exactly covered liabilities under policies
—the actuary says it was sufficient for all
policy liabilities —then net tangibles with
a book value of £39,996 (approximately
the same as at the previous balance)
remained to represent £300,000 of share
capital, of which £62,500 carries a fixed
cumulative 8 p.c. It is doubtful whether
the co. made much real headway during
the last term. Regular bonuses to policy-
holders are not yet in sight.
Hume Pipe Co. (Australia), Ltd.
Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 53,229 8 p.c. = 40,000 13,229 43,734
Shares in other cos. written up,
£76,455; added assets fluctuation
reserve, £31,455 .. .. . . 12,279
Reserves.
1929'.. 54,996 8 p.c. = 40,000 14,996 2,717
1930.. 54,565 6 „ „ 30,000 24,565 27,282
1931.. 17,147 Nil 17,147 44,429
1932.. 6,625 Nil 6,625 51,054
1933.. 7,187 Nil 7,187 58,241
1934.. 5,015 Nil 5,015 63,256
1935.. 23,045 4 p.c. = 20,000 3,045 66,301
1936.. 34,006 5 ~ „ 25,000 9,006 75,307
Unexplained reductions, £1126 . . 74,181
1937.. 55,936 6 p.c. = 30,000 25,936 100,117
1938.. 52,115 74,. „ 37,500 14,615 114,732
Special depreciation, £10,000.. •• 104,732
This co. turns out reinforced concrete
pipes for water supply, drainage, irriga-
tion and sewerage, as well as concrete pav-
ing slabs, septic tanks,, telephone boxes,
lighting standards, etc. Headquarters are
in Melbourne, and branches have been
set up at Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth (W.A.), Hobart, and Wellington,
Auckland and Christchurch (M.L.).
Altogether the co. has about 18 perma-
nent factories in Australia and four in
M.L., and temporary plants are erected
when necessary to carry out specific jobs.
Earnings depend largely upon the
works expenditure of Government and
semi-Government bodies. For the decade
to the close of accounts in 1930, divs.
averaged 6.8 p.c. Then, when public
loan funds gave out and the volume of
private orders diminished and competi-
tion forced a sharp reduction in selling
prices, shareholders experienced a four
years’ drought, though the co. continued
to balance on the right side of the ledger.
Earnings went up with a jump in 1935,
when shareholders got into the picture
again with 4 p.c., and profits and distri-
butions have since stepped along with the
improvement in conditions generally,
divs. averaging 5.6 p.c. over the last four
years.
During the last term, sales fell away at
one centre in Australia, following a hold-
up of Government works owing to lack
of funds; elsewhere business is reported
well maintained. After making the usual
allowance for taxation and depreciation,
declared net earnings were £3821 lighter
at 10.4 p.c. on capital as against 11.1,
6.8, 4.6 and 1 p.c. back to 1934. That
excludes a special allowance of £lO,OOO
for depreciation (making the special re-
serve for the purpose £60,000). Taking
this into the reckoning, last year’s net
return would be 8.4 p.c. on capital. The
£4615 that remained lifted free reserves
£104,733 in excess of intangibles. In
addition there were depreciation reserve,
just referred to, and £15,502 earmarked
for taxation and contingencies.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1930. 1933. 1937. 1938.
Paid capita).. £500,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities .. 49,990 55,969 87,220 191,811
Freeholds, etc. 00,783 63,744 70,766 73,271
Buildings, plant,
etc . .. 224,373 243,511 232,786 252,673
Stocks .. 91,765 84,739 70,527 95,491
U n <■ o mpletcd
work . . 2,987 16,477 27,160 50,677
Book debts .. 101,645 04,094 102,051 133,053
Loan . . 28,838 08,482 124,294 140,819
Cash. etc. .. 44,471 10,382 20,072 18.742
Shares in other
cos. .. 128,114 120,929 124,719 124,719
To add £22,525 to loans to Hume
Steel and Hume Pipe (Far East),
£31,602 to debtors’ balances, £23,517 to
uncompleted work, £18,964 to stock,
£19,887 to plant, £2505 to freeholds, etc.,
and snip £lOO5 off the amount coming
to trade creditors (£49,193), the board
went to its bankers for an extra £105,095,
raising the overdraft to £142,179. When
the books closed, the more or less liquid
surplus (£254,071, excluding shares in
other cos.) was £9413 lighter than at
the previous balance, owing to the out-
lay of £22,392 net on fixed assets. Shares
in other cos. include 165,000 f.-p. £1
ords. in Hume Steel, in at £61,875, and
unspecified holdings in some foreign
subsidiaries.
For the 12 months to Sept. 30, 1937,
Hume Steel (paid capital £350,000 in
100,000 p.c. cum. prefs. and 250,000
ords.) netted £40,321 (up £32,607), or
enough to pay its pref. div. and show
13.1 p.c. on ord. capital. No ord. div.
was paid, money being wanted in the
business. Accounts to Sept. 30 last are
not yet available, but increased turnover
is reported, and the co. will presently
offer 50,000 new £1 1\ p.c. cum. prefs.
Since the close of accounts the parent
has taken over Hume Pipe (Far East),
Ltd., for £112,500 in 1\ p.c. cum. prefs.
—three for every two Far East shares.
Over the last 11 years the Far East co.
paid divs. averaging 9.5 p.c. from profits
averaging 19.8 p.c. on its capital. For
the 12 months to the end of March it
netted £15,580, or £7142 more than 74
p.c. on £112,500 will call for.
The deal should be a help to the
parent’s ords., which also look like get-
ting a little assistance for the first time
from Hume Steel. As for the parent’s
own business, the board expects no fall-
ing off in sales during the current term.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the ords at 19s. 6d., at which figure
the return is 7.7 p.c. on a 1\ p.c. div.
basis. The prefs. at 245. 6d. yield 5.7 p.c.
The chairman, Senator McLachlan,
recently resigned from the Ministry be-
cause of the co.’s contracts with Govern-
ment bodies; a proper and desirable
thing for any Minister to do in the
circumstances.
Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd.
Nominal
r— Dividends ■, To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Old. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 47,524 6 p.c. 9 p.c. 32,160 15,364 395,537
1929.. 41,455 6 „ 7 „ 25,360 16,095 411,632
1930.. 65,409 6 „ 9 „ 32,160 33,249 444,881
Written off, £30,026 .. .. .. 414,855
1931.. 9,127 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 18,560 405,422
1932.. 33,922 6 „ 5 „ 18,560 15,362 420,784
1933.. 46,320 6 „ 6 „ 21,960 24,360 445,144
1934.. 46,150 6 „ 6 „ 21,960 24,190 469,334
Unexplained additions, £28,731* .. 498,065
1935.. 35,732 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 21,960 13,772 511,837
Net unexplained reduction, £27,008.. 484,829
1936.. 20,244 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 21,960 483,113
To staff fund, £24,200 . . . . 458,853
Unexplained additions, £47,903 .. 606,756
1937.. 34,180 0 p.c. 6J p.c. 23,660 10,520 617,276
Unexplained additions, £80,698 .. 547,874
1938.. 33,037 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 25,360 7»677 555,551
♦lncludes profit on sole of Consols.
The fleet consists of the Duntroon, a
10,000-ton passenger-and-cargo motor
vessel, which took up the inter-State run
between Sydney and Fremantle about
three years ago, four cargo vessels and a
couple of tugs, the lot aggregating 22,981
tons gross, together with two coal lighters
and a motor-launch.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts there was a slight falling
off in passenger and cargo figures during
the second half of the term, and running
costs continued to climb, but the subsi-
diary (Hobson’s Bay Dock and Engi-
neering Co.), over whose figures the cur-
tain is kept drawn, had one of its busiest
periods for some years. Declared net
earnings (£33,037, down £1143) were
sufficient to pay 6 p.c. on £26,000 ol
pref. money and show 9.2 p.c. on the
£340,000 of ord. capital, as against 9.6
5.5, 10 and 8.8 p.c. for the four preced-
ing years. The div. was lifted half a
point, making 7 p.c. for the year. That
was after £30,598 net (down £17,305) was
dropped from somewhere into reserves
which are mainly provision for depre-
ciation and contingencies—a substantial
sum was spent during the year on recon-
ditioning the older ships of the fleet.
The large accumulation of reserves (the
heap was piled £189,551 higher than paid
capital when the books closed) is partly
the result of the sale of surplus tonnage
when prices were high, and partly owing
to liberal allowances for depreciation,
etc., during the boom years.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
' 1931. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £366,000 £366.000 £366,000 £366,000
Liabilities . . 44,760 71,948 119,819 95,451
Steamers, etc. 414,525 727.831 799,567 800.386
Freehold, plant 51,698 54,229 54,165 54,238
Stores, etc. . . 8.031 17,133 27,481 26,199
Book debts . . 57,8 7 4 57,56 5 74,857 63,8 4 0
1 n v e s tments,
’ cash . . 291,633 104,007 59,705 85,019
The year’s surplus earnings, including
the unexplained addition to reserves, to-
gether with a reduction of £11,017 in
book debts and £1282 in stores, etc.,
enabled £24,368 to be clipped off the out-
side debt and cash, etc., to be strength-
ened by £25,314. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£79,607) was £37,383.
Though the chairman hinted at the
possibility of a lift in freight rates, pros-
pects of the 7 p.c. div. being maintained
during the current term seem bright


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business) i
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES
throughout New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Hu Hue, Mete "PoweAfcut
BRITISH BEDFORDS
icker
ml
■ ■ ■
Handle bigger loads
Bigger payloads mean bigger profits and Bedford
allows hundreds of lbs. more for body and payload
than other trucks. The nett carrying weights of
Bedford after deducting chassis weight are as
follows :
Bedford WS (30 cwt.) 5,930 lbs.
Bedford WHG (40-50 cwt.) 9,540 lbs.
Bedford WLG (40-50 cwt.) 9,460 lbs.
Bedford WTH (3 and 4 ton) 13,140 lbs.
Bedford WTL (3 and 4 ton) 12,890 lbs.
The secret is Bedford’s greater strength plus the
reduction in deadweight due to Bedford’s New Design,
which reduces the length of the frame while leaving
the payload area the same.
■ ■ ■
Handle bigger loads
Bigger payloads mean bigger profits and Bedford
allows hundreds of lbs. more for body and payload
than other trucks. The nett carrying weights of
Bedford after deducting chassis weight are as
follows :
Bedford WS (30 cwt.) 5,930 lbs.
Bedford WHG (40-50 cwt.) 9,540 lbs.
Bedford WLG (40-50 cwt.) 9,460 lbs.
Bedford WTH (3 and 4 ton) 13,140 lbs.
Bedford WTL (3 and 4 ton) 12,890 lbs.
The secret is Bedford’s greater strength plus the
reduction in deadweight due to Bedford’s New Design,
which reduces the length of the frame while leaving
the payload area the same.
■ ■
Handle them t ' u ' ' .-
= -*=Kh£='*“r.=;
ssr^—
it easier w
tion makes
the highways.
... a „d M* "-"SS
Despite the economical
per r cent > .'le® sl p etr^^^^ge I (^buratlon^exdusl’^to^BetMo r^
Bedford e-tine. lpal reasons. °« r * controlled cooll-t
‘-rzsrxsrSL-, -jrssi
Above are three good reasons why Bedfords are such profit-making
trucks. Here are two others. Low first cost (within a few
pounds of the cheapest trucks you can buy) and economy of
maintenance. You know the ease and speed of valve - grinding
with the overhead valve engine of Bedford’s type. Gome and
see the new Bedfords and study the other points that assure
you trouble-free operation. Compare the size and strength of
Bedford’s back axle assembly. Take a look at the accessible
system of grouped lubrication nipples, and the conveniently
positioned adjuster of the braking system. Note the strength
of the frames of the various models (unlike other trucks,
Bedford provides a frame of different dimensions for each of
its 30 cwt., 40-50 cwt. and 3 ton models). Follow the lead of
the biggest fleet owners in Australia and you will buy a British
Bedford. GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED.
CHASSIS PRICES from - - - - £285
WS (30 cwt.) - £285 WTH (3 ton) - £360 WTL (4 ton) - - £405
WHG (40-50 cwt.) £3lO WTH (4 ton) - £395 (All Prices plus Sales Tax )
WLG (40-50 cwt.) £320 WTL (3 ton) - £370
Buy on the Convenient, Confidential G M.A.C. Payment Plan,
Consult your local Authorised Bedford Dealer
Sold and serviced by Bedford dealers all over Australia.
Y 379
enough. Since the beginning of 1938 the
ords. have fluctuated between 30s. 3d.
and 265. 9d. in the market. At the current
price of 28s. the return is 5 p.c. on
a 7 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible cover
is 525. Bd. per share, of which 265. is
represented by the reserve for deprecia-
tion, etc. The well-protected prefs. sel-
dom come on to the market.
Australian Drug (Investments), Ltd.
, Dividends ■,
Pref. Ord. To
June, Profit. 71 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 21,247 4708 13,722 2817 34,700
Premiums on new shares, £5OOO 39,700
1929.. 19,681 4708 14,973 39,700
1930.. 12,708 4708 Nil 8000 47,700
Unexplained addition reserves, £3160 50,860
1931.. 4,181 Nil Nil 4181 55,041
1932.. 2.423 Nil Nil 2423 57,464
Prom tax reserves, £630 .. 68,094
1933.. 3,719 Nil Nil 3719 61,813
Loss on sale of property, £26,550.. 35,263
Loss.
1934.. 2,472 Nil Nil 32,791
Profit sale shares, £1648 .. .. 34,439
Profit.
1935.. 4,200 19,568* Nil 19,071
2.5 p.c.
1936.. 7,916 3,649 4,056 212 19,283
4 p.c.
1937.. 10,921 3,649 6,489 783 20,066
41 p.c.
1938.. 11,120 3,649' 7,300 171 20,237
•Five years to June 30, 1936.
Difficult to say when much better can
be expected from this Sydney co., whose
share- capital (£225,000 in 62,775 p.c.
cum. prefs., less 224- p.c. statutory cut,
and 162,225 ords.), reserves and £104,905
coming to outsiders at June 30 were
represented by freeholds £229,365, shares
in Drug Houses of Australia (129,626
£1 ords.) £129,626, and debtors’ balances,
etc., £2lOO. Of the outside liabilities,
£100,937 was coming to the A.M.P. on
mortgage, which has another three years
or so to run.
The properties consist of Australia
House, Carrington-street (built before the
boom burst, when prices and rentals were
at their peak), and a garage in Charles-
street. Australia House is fully let, and
has been for some time, while real-estate
values in the vicinity of the garage (it is
now turning in a trifle more rent) are
strengthening. So efforts to sell the
Charles-street premises have been
abandoned for the present in the hope of
getting a better figure later on.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, rentals turned in £14,599
(up £200), and 6\ p.c. (£8426, up £324) •
was received on the holding in D.H.A.,
making gross earnings £23,025 (up £524).
Exes, took £11,904 (up £325), leaving
enough to pay the prefs. a minimum
5.8 p.c. and show 4.6 p.c. on ord. capital.
The div. was lifted from 4 p.c. to 4± p.c.
On the basis of last year’s figures, D.H.A. <
{Continued on next page.)


m
> * Si'
f i|s|
'•~"V
*****
ft ’S
Vfc.
wV
Air
A DEFENCE POLICY
for your family
A DEFENCE POLICY for the nation calls for much cogitation.
Some want one thing done and some want another; different points
of view are held by different groups of people.
A Defence Policy for your Family is quite another matter. You
can draw it up yourself. You may wish to discuss the details with
your wife, but the decision can be your own; indeed, it must be your
own; within yourself is victory or defeat, as the poet pointed out.
A sound defence policy for your family is the provision of sufficient A.M.P.
Life Assurance to enable your widow and family to carry on in the event of your
death: to pay probate duties, outstanding debts, household bills, etc.; to pay off
any mortgage you may leave, and to live in reasonable comfort until the
children are earning for themselves. The cost of doing this is within the
means of nearly every man.
Such a Defence Policy should have the alternative purpose of enabling you
and your wife to carry on in comfort if you both live beyond your retiring age.
This also can be done through A.M.P. policies. The method is simple, straight-
forward and dependable and is not costly. If you have not provided such
security for yourself and family, you can do so to-day. You can tell the
nearest A.M.P. office that you want an experienced man sent to talk the matter
over with you. Do that to-day. Even to-morrow may be too late.
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
D. E. Walker, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office:. Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
METALS.—If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
* * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and repaintings.
For all wooden, steel or iron structures. Will not
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams and
Company. Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assay era and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: 311787 <3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
The LUDOWICI ALL-STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
V
Possesses much greater
STRENGTH RIGIDITY
ACCURACY LIGHTNESS
ACCESSIBILITY
J. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY, 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE
would need to send along 84 p.c. to
enable this investment co. to pay an all-
round 6 p.c. on its capital.
For the 12 months to June 30 last,
the operating cos. controlled by D.H.A.
showed net earnings aggregating £180,203
(down £15,995), or 9.9 p.c. on their
aggregate capital of £1,814,016, of which
£75,000, carrying a cumulative 8 p.c.,
is not owned by D.H.A. Allowing for
this preference charge, inter-company
divs. and the holding co.’s own exes.
(together £23,693), the £156,510 that re-
mained was £2084 less than 64 p.c. on
D.H.A.’s own £2,439,912 of capital
called for. Jt is doubtful, therefore
whether anything better than 64 p.c. need
be expected from D.H.A. for the current
term.
Australian Drug prefs at 21s 6d
return 5.4 p.c. on a 58 pc div basis
and the ords. at 14s. yield 6 4 pc on a
44 p.c. distribution. Allowing for good-
will, etc., in the D.H.A group the net
tangible backing is £3 10s. prefs and
19s. 3d. ords.
At Loloma (Fiji) ore reserves at the
end Of July (138,815 tons, including
29,100 tons of probable ore, the lot
averaging 25.6dwt.) were equal to
approximately six years’feed for the mill,
now treating at the rate of about 2100
tons per month. At the northern end
of the lode, values on the 224 ft. level,
where the„ make has become disturbed!
have been disappointing. Hopes are that
better-grade stuff will be met with under-
neath, on the 324 ft. level; but the sophis-
ticated investor will not count his
chickens before they are hatched. At
the southern end of the 224 ft. level the
lode is longer, wider and richer than at
the level above. Since the end of July
the southern drive on the 224 ft level has
been fo-nr. + mor. •
een advanced from 833 ft. to 978 ft. in
ore assaying from 21.5dwt. to 39dwt.,
over widths of from 51in. to 90in. For
the next 10ft. low values were en-
countered, but the face at 1002 ft. is in
41dwt. stuff, width 33in. Further, this
shoot is reported “wider and richer
underfoot, showing a great amount of
telluride.” So further additions to pay-
ore are expected to follow the opening
U P oi the southern end of the 324 ft.
level.
* . * * *
Hawk'™. ? lU Soldmine, Georgetown
wblch , was shut down tor SIX
10n^hs while its owner (F. W. Cuth-
came to Sydney for an operation,
Parted its 10-head of 14001 b. stamps
S° ,n S again on Nov. 7. The 3000 tons
9 1 ° u re at S rass W,U be Seated before any
iurtber underground work is attempted,
Havin 8 sold hls Misima (Papua) mine
44 rank Hambridge and his friends,
!~' utbbert stepped into Georgetown when
local interests stepped out early last year,
after s P endin g abou t £52,000 on develop-
ing and e o ul PP in g the property, where
a nch shoot ’ m,ssed b Y the previous
owners was picked up. Enough ore
(valued at about £30,000) to keep the
bat , tery going f°r a couple of years is
reckoned to be available. Two types
of concentrates are produced. One con-
tains practically all the lead in the ore
and about 70 p.c. of the gold and silver,
The other contains little or no lead and
15 p.c. of the gold and silver. Of the
remaining 15 p.c. of gold and silver in
tbe sands, 11.4 p.c. is extracted by
cyanidation, giving a total extraction of
96-4- p.c. of the gold and silver content
tbe °re.
* * * *
A 1 the end °f March last ore reserves
of Rau b, the F.M.S. producer at Pahang,
stood at less than six months’ mill
supply. Extensive (and expensive) de-
velopment since, however, appears to
bave done i ts work. Here are results for
tbe first 36 weeks of the current term:
f Ore- -j t — l —Bands
, Gold > Golcl, Mine
12 weeks, Tons. Oz. Tons. Oz. Profit.
May 21 .. 14,685 4,677 19,107 1229 £i. r >,708
Au &- 13 •• 15 < 113 L BBB is.soe if* B3 i 5,968
Nov ’ 5 " 14,095 4,302 15>71 ° 1950 *
36 weeks .. 44,493 13,924 53,323 4702
* Not y et available.
Battery yields (6.2dwt.) have been a trifle
better than last term’s experience, while
profits have also had the benefit of the
new sands-retreatment plant, which is
fed with current and old tailings in
approximately equal proportions. An-
nouncement of a sd. div., payable Dec.
15, is an encouraging feature. Previous
distributions were of 4d. and 3d., making
a total of Is. a share so far this term, as
against Is. Id. for the whole of the
previous year, when no final quarterly
handout was made.
* * * *
Despite treatment of 614,567 tons
during the twelvemonth, ore reserves of
Lake View and Star (W.A.) as at June 30
show a further bulge of 174,000 tons.
The total is now 3,588,600 tons —471,100
broken, 2,460,000 positive and 657,500
probable —or nearly six years’ feed
for the enlarged mill, which is treating
at the rate of 655,000 tons annually. The
lot bulks 6.57dwt. Other features cal-
culated to warm shareholders’ hearts are
improvement in extraction from 85.9 p.c.
to 88.4 p.c. and decrease in working
costs from 21s 3. Id. to 20s. 9.8 d. For
the four months to October 218,815 tons
ore and 233,257 tons sands yielded
£A254,500. After charging £26,960 for
ordinary development, the mine profit
was £210,907.
« * * *
At Wiluna (W.A.) the Happy Jack
shaft is being unwatered preparatory to
further development, and the Bulletin
shaft is being sunk below 1200 ft. at a
fast rate ; provision is also being made
for the early advent at the 1200 ft. level
of a mechanical bogger and an electric
motor with a rake of trucks. To further
expedite development in this part of the
property consideration is being given to
increasing the size of the air main, which
extends from the powerhouse near the
main shaft for a considerable distance
northward.
*:q * * *
Failing to interest London, North
Kalgurli Central (W.A.) has induced
Australian Mining and Industrial
Finance, Ltd., to take an option on its
Kalgoorlie property for £7OOO, and pay
£250 deposit. Altogether, between
£30,000 and £40,000 has been spent
above and below ground by North Kal-
gurli Central. All there is to show for
this expenditure is some exposed ore of
an average grade not good enough to
justify the co. keeping on. Two small
higher-grade veins were stabbed by a
diamond-drill, but so far no attempt has
been made to open them up and prove
their extent. Paringa abandoned its
option over the property in 1936.
» * * *
Gladiator, one of De Bernales’s West-
ralian group, has just installed a brand-
new treatment plant on the old Augusta
mine at Laverton. Former owners took
about 30,0000,z. of gold out of the prop-
erty, and at the time of the Gladiator
float, in 1935, three experts predicted a
prosperous future. Results from develop-
ment and boring done since are said to
support this prophecy.
* * * *
London-controlled Southern Cross
Development, one of De Bernales’s West-
ralian group, decided on November 3 to
wind up. Geologist Dr. Moss recom-
mended the expenditure of £5OOO on ex-
ploratory work, but holders of the
£76,880 10 p.c. five-year secured notes
(they are also the principal shareholders)
refused to advance further money.
After payment of liabilities little is
expected to be left for shareholders.
« * * *
Deeming (W.A.), Fraser’s group,
Southern Cross, which was resurrected
from a watery grave by one of the De
Bernales group in 1934, is now being
prepared for a second burial. Pumps
are being removed, rails pulled up and
other plant stripped.
* 4= * *
After a visit to the Westralian gold-
fields, State mining-engineer Dick Wilson
reported satisfactory developments oil
Yellowdine Gold Areas’ new Yilgarn
option, where two underlay shafts, about
165 ft. apart, are down 80ft. One has
entered the sulphides, and the other
seems about to do so. Two samples
taken near the bottom of the north shaft
assayed over 3oz. for a width of 30in.
Samples taken over a width of 36in. in
the north end of a drive off the south
shaft assayed 31dwt., and in the south
end 2.3dwt. over 12in.
* * * *
Driving on No. 8 level, Norseman
(W.A.), has been started to open up
ore indicated by winzes from No. 7 level.
Also additional treatment plant is being
installed which will lift monthly through-
put to between 15,000 and 18,000 tons —
about 8000 tons will come from the
Norseman, 5000 tons from the Iron King
and the balance from the Star and Penne-
shaw blocks. On the Iron King low-
grade ore is being cheaply mined by
opencutting.
* * * *
The main and internal shafts at Norse-
man Central, Norseman (W.A.).have each
reached No. 15 level, where the drive will
be of considerable interest. Here good
values might indicate a recurrence at
depth of the conditions existing at higher
levels.
* * * *
Blue Bird, Norseman (W.A.), is a small
mine which is attracting attention on
account of exceptionally rich erdshings ;
the ore-body is a flat quartz vein, mostly
a foot or two in width. A winze below
the level has encountered specimen ore ;
after dollying, pieces of gold the size of
sovereigns can be picked out. The boom-
let here has attracted a number of small
Adelaide concerns, including Copeland
Mines, N.L., which is now seeking its
fortune at Norseman. The co. was
formed in Sept., 1933, to search for gold
at Commonwealth Flat, Gloucester
(N.S.W.), but gave up a year later.
* * * *
At Spargo’s Reward, Coolgardie
(W.A.), erection of a plant to treat 1500
tons of current ore and 1000 tons of
accumulated tailings monthly is being
pushed ahead. The heap of tailings now
approximates 20,000 tons.
* * * t
At Tindals, Coolgardie (W.A.), prepara-
tory work is proceeding underground to
get the mine in shape to break ore con-
tinuously when the treatment plant starts
up next month or early in 1939.
* * * *
Westralia is whooping about prospects
of its 1938 gold yield exceeding that of
1937 by 150,0000 z. or more. With two
months to go, the increase is already
over 141,0000 z. Heavier production by
cos. operating on the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile and bigger State battery returns
have been the main factors in this year’s
bigger output of the yellow metal.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
T J.: Cannot say; no open market. (2)
Certainly not... .G.E.D.: Jt is the most highly-
priced insurance stock on the market; still, as
a holding proposition, it has prospects. For
full review see B. 8/6/’3B W.S.: Yes
H.R.S.: Co. appears to have fair prospects,
but it is still in the development stage; scrip
therefore speculative R.A.W. and A.W.T.:
Will review next issue... .A.G.: Yes, you are
liable to N. S. Wales tax, but if co. deducts
tax before payment of div. you are not liable
for any further tax H.P.: No open market
for these bonds; write secretary and ask if he
can find a buyer for you M.A.C.: See B.
9 /11 /’3 8.


SMOKE-OH!
“A fortune-teller predicts a disastrous year
for Hitler in 1940.”
So he is going to marry!
4* 4 4* 4*
“Scientist declares that the man of the
future will possess only one eye.”
Some of our sporting writers seem to
have been born before their time.
4* 4 4 4*
“Nothing possesses the homing instinct of a
carrier pigeon,” declares a birdlover.
Unless it be mothers-in-law and manu-
scripts.
4 4 4 4
“A bootmaker has commenced an action
against a landlord for allowing another boot-
maker to rent a shop in the same block.”
He wanted the sole rights, naturally.
4 4 4 4
“When her husband came home, at nearly
midnight, she gave him something to eat.”
— "Sun.”
In similar circumstances many wives
merely give their husbands something to
chew over.
4 4 4 4
“For every missionary who is sent out of
England hundreds of cases of whisky are ex-
ported.'”—“Church Times.”
Few people knew that missionaries
drank so heavily.
“The majority of our butterflies live along
the coast.”— “Sun.”
The gayest of the Palm Beach butter-
flies are often hard to identify, as they
don’t always have the same number of
spots.
4 4 4 4
“In this country, about all that stays open
seems to be the vast open spaces.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
And the railway-carriage windows on
a rainy night.
4 4 4 4
“Police Care for Lost Infant. Station Turned
into Nursery.”— “S. M. Herald.”
A racket was started, so police bribed
the squealer with a bottle or two.
4 4 4 4
“Anger releases sugar into the blood.”
— “World’s News.”
But you still look sour.
4 4 4 4
“£1 Notes "Swallowed. Woman’s Story in
Police Court.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Keeping the living expenses down.
4 4 4 4
“Coffee readily absorbs and retains unusual
odors.” —“ World’s News.”
In hashhouses it retains every odor,
in fact, except that of coffee.
4 4 4 4
“Firm may make transparent paper.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
lt would be interesting to see how the
week-end beer is going to be wrapped up
to look like a pair of boots with that.
4 4 4 4
“A Withernsea (Yorks) man has erected out-
side his shop a slot machine with 24 electrically-
heated compartments containing hot fish and
chips.”— “Century.”
And that, of course, is best taken with
a grain of salt.
4 4 4 4
Travellers’ Tales.
Just returned from a world tour, Mr.
Amos Blooter, Chief Past President of
the A.A.A.A. (Australian Anti-Alcohol
Association), gave a fascinating account
of his trip when chatting with a “Daily
Pang” representative yesterday.
“My most striking experience?” Mr.
Blooter smiled. “In the Serviette States,
of course. There they have completely
solved the liquor problem. Their great
leader, Koolemoff, has relegated beer,
wine and spirits to the level of water —
that is, to the street tap, the horse-
trough and the fire-plug, while water is
given the former status of beer.
“In the Serviette now,” continued Mr.
Blooter, “it is impossible to get water
from a tap —I mean an ordinary tap.
You must go to a house licensed to sell
,vater. There they have it either on tap
or bottled.
“They have some fine brands, too:
rain, barrel, well, distilled, dish, soda,
bath and sea are some of the better
known; a range that will cover all
palates. The bars, of course, are crowded ;
so much so, in fact, there was talk of
early closing while 1 was there.
“For such a race of water-drinkers
the regulations naturally have to be
strict. The sale of water to minors and
on Sundays is prohibited, and bottled
water is not permitted on public vehicles.
Despite this, a good deal of sly-watering
goes on. As for beer, it is ignored in
Serviette. I have seen it being used to
flush out gutters and poured on to burn-
ing houses without the slightest comment.
Undoubtedly,” Mr. Blooter concluded,
“Serviette is the finest country in the
world to-day.”
“Would you care for a —er” sug-
gested the D.P. man.
“Certainly,” replied Mr. Blooter, lead-
ing the way to a drinking fountain. He
bent, pressed the tap, and a nauseated
expression spread over his features.
“By gad!” he said. “That’s Australia’s
trouble ; its water isn’t a patch on the
Serviette’s! ”
Turoar.
4 4 4 4
When a woman says that she didn’t
accept her husband the first time he pro-
posed she forgets to explain that she
wasn’t there the first time he proposed.
4 4 4 4
“It is a scientifically-proven fact that a total
abstainer from alcohol as a beverage has an
“Cant you remember ANYTHING?”
"Too right! I'll remember all them dials if they ain't careful."
expectancy of 13 more years of life than a
moderate drinker.” — Temperance lecturer.
Of existence !
•4 *4 *4 *4
“Help for Wheat Farmers.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Maybe the Government will lend them
an ear.
+ +
“Live man, aerated waters round, take over
b/board, £2s.”— Adelaide “Advertiser.”
A real effervescent bloke, in fact.
4* 4* +
“Girls in love, you probably won’t believe
me, but your young men tell you a whole pack
of lies.” — Women’s paper.
He usually tells the ace-lies of the pack
when he chooses the right bower, calls
her his queen and adds a diamond to her
hand.
4- 4* 4 1 +
“Has the Australian nation benefited by beach
life?” — Sydney doctor.
Well, our girls certainly have some-
thing to show for it.
4< 4 1 4* 4*
Absence makes the heart grow fonder,
they say; and some of us could get very
fond of our landlords if they’d only give
us a chance.
4* 4* 4* v
“Move to be made to have tripe put into
containers.” — Melbourne “Argus.
Does this mean canned policy
speeches?
•|«
“During the crisis, it was revealed, guns
arrived without their instruments at points where
they were wanted.”
This, the War Office points out, repre-
sents a great improvement on all previous
muddles, when guns arrived without their
instruments at points where they were
not wanted.
•4 *4 *4 *4
“Mount Bold Dam Official Opening.”
— Heading.
We thought so, too.
Jewel Personality.
Sweet Beryl! When you smile, a store
Of flashing pearls my heart allures!
1 love those ruby lips, adore
That platinum-blond hair of yours!
And yet —who knows? —it may be you
Are not so precious, for, I’m told,
You have a little flaw or two:
They say you’re hard—and set on
gold !
T.W.N.
Blowfly.
The fly has a thousand eyes —
I have but two;
I watch for him as he flies
Out of the blue.
Circling about the room ;
On the window-pane
l think I’ve got him, but — zoom-m!
And he soars again.
The fly has a thousand eyes,
And he sees a lot;
He’s more than clever, he’s wise —
And he knows what’s swat!
L.M.D. O’NEIL.
I Was a Legionnaire.
X.
The roast aasvogel I had tried to eat
gave me a raging thirst. Imagine my
horror, therefore, when 1 found that the
white ants had eaten the bottom out ol
my water-bottle! There was I, in the
middle of the Sahara, without a drop of
water and no prospect of getting any
until we reached the oasis at Fort Bak-
sheesh, 150 miles farther on — i.e., an-
other full day’s march. Even to ask for
a drop from one’s fellow-legionnaires
while on the march would invite bayonet-
ing out of hand. The Legion has no
mercy on weaklings. Those who drop
out on marches, whether from fatigue
or thirst, are just left for the aasvogels
or Arabs.
But I am a resourceful fellow, and I
was far from beaten. If I couldn’t have
water I had at least something to my
hand with which to keep my lips moist
and sustain me until we reached the fort.
Whipping out the trusty brace-and-
bit without wbich I would never think
of leaving on a campaign, I drilled a
neat hole in the absinthe keg which rose
and fell with Mustapha’s stertorous
breathing. I first took care to dip the
bit in whale oil so as to eliminate the
squeak, for were I to be discovered by
the man on guard my life might well be
forfeit.
In the Legion you can, with impunity,
read another man’s love letters, talk in
your sleep all night or wipe your feet
on his face, but even so much as to take
a sniff of his issue of absinthe is to in-
vite your immediate destruction. I
reasoned that it would be a simple
matter when we reached the oasis to
make good the deficiency with water, a
deception which no thirst-crazy troops
would notice. I then plugged the hole
up with putty, which is another handy
commodity of which I invariably carry
a small supply.
Having filled my kepi with the potent
liquor I swilled it off and immediately
felt much better; so much, in fact, that
I even entertained a benign feeling
towards Mustapha and gave him the rest
of the aasvogel for him to break his
teeth on.
Next day on the march, feigning sick-
ness, I dropped back until I brought up,
among other things, the rear. This posi-
tion enabled me surreptitiously to dis-
mount, tap a full kepi of absinthe from
the keg and leap up on the camel again.
In drinking out of the peak I must have
spilled some, for Mustapha swung his
head round several times and swiftly
licked something off his heaving flanks.
Now, I am no seasoned toper; or
maybe it was that, having my top set
of tats out of action, with a consequent
inability to masticate the army biscuits
and bully beef which constituted my iron
rations, I was compelled to drink on an
empty stomach. Whatever the reason,
after only about six or seven full kepis
of absinthe, the desert began to rotate
alarmingly, and Mustapha appeared to
be hydra-headed. Not only that, but he
began to emit loud hiccups.
1 felt that the situation called for
urgent action, for the keen-eared adju-
tant might at any moment investigate
why a camel and its rider should inces-
santly hiccup in unison over one hun-
dred miles from the nearest wet canteen.
Moreover, the now rapidly revolving
desert was fast becoming populated with
various horrific creatures which had. no
right there ; so with a few wild “whackos”
and “yippees” I drove my heels into the
oont’s hump, urging him forward and
occasionally sideways and scattering the
running legionnaires right and left as
we tore through the ranks in front of us.
As the cry of “Le cafard" rang out
clutching hands tried to stop us, but
Mustapha, breathing fire and absinthe
fumes and hiccuping and bucking, had
the bit in his teeth and would not be
denied. As the 0.-in-C., Lt. Bleauxflai,
stepped nimbly aside he shrugged his
shoulders and remarked to the adjutant:
“Pauvre diable! if thirst and sun don’t
settle him the Arabs will. Ca ne fait
rien !”
This inhumane attitude to a fellow-
warrior riled me, and I yelled back at
him, “San fairy ann yourself with knobs
on!” as, clinging to Mustapha’s flying
mane, I lit out for one of the horizons.
Of the nightmare ride which followed
when the camel, mad with the fiery
liquor, tore up and down the desert,
squealing and bucking, I recall little
except that I was leaning out at an
obtuse angle all day so as to balance the
kegs, and issuing blood-curdling chal-
lenges to the entire Arab world. The
next I knew was that I was being dragged
into the shade of the fort, and that the
top of my head was being lifted off by
a rough and unseen hand and being
banged on again with monotonous regu-
larity.
I learned next morning from one of
the garrison that I had ridden Mustapha
(who, with the uncanny instinct of his
kind, had smelt the oasis from fifty miles
away and had nosed his way to it) furi-
ously up to the oasis and had either
thrown myself, or had been thrown, off.
Thinking I was afflicted with the strange,
desert madness known throughout the
Legion as le cafard they had watched
me as, true to the discipline and train-
ing which had become second nature to
me, I had hurried straight to my asti-
quage duty.
I had, it seemed, pipeclayed the camel,
currycombed my rifle and bayonet, and
given what was left of my firewood a
good coating of boot polish. It was only
when I lit a fire, concocted some soupe
of which sand formed the sole ingredient,
and then started lashing into it that a
fatigue party came and dragged me
away.
Still, I had the satisfaction of knowing
that I had beaten the main body to
Fort Baksheesh.
S.W.K.


“PETROMAX”
SAFE RAPID HURRICANE LANTERNS AND TABLE
LAMPS BURN KEROSENE AND LIGHT UP IN
30 SECONDS ON KEROSENE.
• No Preheating with Methy-
lated Spirits.
• A Beautiful White Light.
ml
3281)
rama
RAPID HURRICANE LANTERN.
200 c.p £3/5/-
300 c.p £3/15/-
Preheating type using methylated
spirits still stocked for those
who prefer it.
200 c.p £2/12/6
300 c.p £3/3/-
• Perfectly Safe, Burning
Kerosene only.
• Burn 10 to 16 hours on
one filling.
SB
RAPID TABLE LAMP.
Use the. Petromax for home lighting, camping, caravans, launches,
prospecting, week-enders, emergency lamp, dairies, stables, garage,
hospital and fire-brigade use, mining, rabbiting.
A FINE XMAS GIFT
Phone M 6505 (18 Lines). Late Shopping, Friday, 8.30 p.m.
JOHN DANIILS 5 SON
PROPRIETARY LTD. (Incorporated in Victoria)
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M 2381.
ipqRSECUwry
Don’t Speculate —
INVEST!
in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
Annual YIELD over 5 p.c.
CUSTODIAN TRUSTEES:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write for Booklet No. 1 (it’s free) to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.
Telephone: 85294. 8-14 BOXD STREET, SYDNEY. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Features of the Outlook
What is the present economic outlook
for Australia? At few periods in the
past several years has the position been
more obscure. Abnormal factors, such
as rearmament expenditure and currency
manipulation overseas, are disturbingly
present, their influence frequently making
prophecies that would ordinarily be
worthy of respect look highly ridiculous
in the light of subsequent events.
Few people at the moment care to
make forecasts about the future. Hitler,
Roosevelt, the French franc and Japan
are cogs in the economic system that
have a disturbing bearing on the work-
ings of the whole machine. Britain seems
prepared to do as well industrially as
the rest of the world will let her, subject
to a purely domestic problem of rising
costs. Australia also has rising costs, a
tendency towards unemployment again,
increasing taxation and a tightening
credit position brought about by exces-
sive imports and low prices for wool and
wheat.
Largely because of the shock-absorb-
ing qualities of its manufacturing indus-
tries, Australian trade activity hasn’t yet
fizzled away in proportion to the drop
in revenue from the land industries. In
1936-37 the wool cheque was worth
£60,552,000 Australian, in 1937-38 it
brought in £44,045,000, and this season
under £40,000,000 is anticipated. A
highly upsetting situation. Wheat has
crashed calamitously, but this product is
of somewhat Jess importance, anu so are
metals, also down heavily.
In the aggregate, the value of our
primary production, both for home con-
sumption and export, has been cut dras-
tically almost solely because of price
slumps. Our exports of land produce
have a most important, but not all-
important, bearing on the rest of our
economy. A healthy total of export
values has all the buoyant influence on
business conditions within the Common-
wealth that overseas borrowing used to
have, and it has few of the stings in the
tail, excepting its tendency to bring into
the country a flow of overseas manu-
ff«ured goods that could be made here.
W * en our . ex P°™ exceed , our , im P or, . s
and an , nual interest commitments abroad
Australian banks become possessed of
additions to the national credit base, a
base which they may teei justified in
“No, your Lordship , We do NOT take cash orders!"
building on, because it represents new
wealth belonging to this country, and
not credit that has already been stretched
four or five times internally.
A, the moment trading banks are en-
deavortng to cope with an external trade
situation that is the reverse of buoya
without seriously upsetting internal trade.
With skill and ingenuity, and aided by
the fact that the country is straining for
expansion, they may be successful in
steadying the adverse effects of our re-
duced national income up to a point,
Nowadays our manufacturing industries
are much more self-contained, and give
a good deal of employment among them-
selves. But a depressed wool and wheat
industry represents a big though not
overwhelming factor in its buying power
alone, quite apart from the indirect em-
ployment such industries give when they
are in good shape.
Often there is a tendency to over-
rate or underrate the significance of our
primary industries. It is difficult to
appraise the exact importance with-
out delving extensively into figures
relating to employment in and esti-
mated production value of the various
industries. But that land industries
are a predominant rather than all-
important influence in our national
economy these days is made evident by
our growing independence of overseas
factories for a large portion of made-
up goods. At the beginning of this cen-
tury, and even up to 1914, our factories
were of small consequence. Nowadays
if export income falls we can “get
by” largely on our own resources—that
is, if politicians and trade agreements
allow us. What usually happens is that
we have a horrible-looking balance of
payments for a year or two and are then
saved by a good season and improved
Australia to-day has a far more self-
contained equipment to keep its people
fed, clothed and employed than it had
even before the depression. That is one
factor that make* it Ipcc cacv to h.rW
ractor tnat makes it less easy to udge
our prospects by export price levels
alone, and one which eases out bumps
when price levels are low. We had fall-
ing wool quotes for more than a year,
but only lately did employment show a
tendency to decrease. Now wool, at a
moderate price, is very steady, with
quotes firming. Unemployment may
possibly be checked,
But rj ";’ ont bf a bad thing toi Aus-
*'al“n'’^wh^wer?
.. rity mad - P a P year ago. Rising
costs do us muc h more harm in the long
run |han fa | ]ing ices
Demand for wool kept at a higher
level in last week’s Sydney auctions, and
good prices were realised, the firming
tendency of the past few weeks being
maintained. Average was 11.2 d. a
pound, compared with Ud., 10.7 d. and
10.4 d. in the three preceding weeks. This
in spite of the fact that Dow-Jones share-
price indexes in New York showed a
setback, after a steep rise, and that metals
were more or less in sympathy with
Dow-Jones. Wool is decidedly a com-
modity valued after scanning the horizon
with a telescope, not with spectacles,
Sydney woolbuyers of long experience
describe the market as being very sound,
clearances being excellent, with growers
meeting the market. Italian and French
buying is better than usual, and, ex-
cepting Japan, other countries are well
in evidence.
* * * . .*
The conversion loan is going on
smoothly, as it deserves to do. Ihe
interest rate is attractive when compared
with existing issues, and the majority o
th° se who hold the maturing loans will
no doubt be satisfied with nothing less
than Consols now, Consols having satis-
Fed them in the past. The issue is tiee
°f State taxes and free of increases in
the Federal rate after 1931. - The cash
portion of the loan, £4,000,000 is he
smallest amount of new money asked for
Tom the public for some years.^
In Melbourne last weekt-
shS? and ? total ”5
£96,250 handed out since the co. started. Paid
capital is £137,000 in 10s. shares, priced at
18s - Prospects look promising.
Holeproof Hosiery ords. recovered to 235.
again after drop pj n g to 2 25. 6d.
Australasian Paper ords. slipped back to
295. 6d. and looked one of the few bargains
on the list, though Myer ords. at 295. 6d. were
remm Tarra Falls at 365. 6d. gave a good
Gordon and Gotch ords. went to above
565.


Bradford Cotton.
At 405., sellers, last week in
Sydney, the ords. in Bradford
Cotton, a well-run and profitable
N. S. Wales textile co., gave a
yield of 6} p.c.
QUALCAST”
Australian made
MOTOR
MOWER.
16in. cut,
a n d
drives as
it cuts.
d
Price £34/13/-
In Seaport Capital Cities.
Australian made “Qualcast” hand mowers
have captured and now hold the Aus-
tralian market by their efficiency, dura-
bility and cheapness. History is' repeat-
ing itself now in regard to the 16in.
“Qualcast” Australian made Motor Mower.
Write for particulars to any leading
Hardware Store or direct to the Manu-
facturers :
QUALCAST (AUST.) PTY., LTD.,
Sunshine Road, West Footscray,
Melbourne, W. 12, Victoria.
For Sale.
FOR SALE or Exchange, Queensland Cypress
Pine Registered Sawmill, long job.—No. 291,
Advt. Department, Bulletin, Box 252 188,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Public Notice.
Triton Gold Mines, No Liability.
Collins House, Melbourne.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend (the
7th) of Sixpence (6d.) per share has been de-
clared on all the issued shares in the capital
of the Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the Regis-
tered Ollice of the Company on Tuesday, the
20th day of December, 1938.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will
close at 5 p.m. on Wednesday, the 30th day
of November, 1938, and reopen at 9 a.m. on
Friday, the 2nd day of December, 1938, and
shareholders registered on Thursday, the Ist
day of December, 1938, will be entitled to
receive the dividend.
By Order of the Board,
L. EDWARDS, Manager.
15th November, 1938.
BLADE TOO OLD
AT 40?
Most razor blades give up long before forty
(shaves) —most fellows don’t complain if a
blade lasts a week. Yet a Wilkinson user
expects and gets about 2-3 months service
from each blade! The reason is that the
Wilkinson Razor uses full hollow ground
blades and mekanizcd self-stropping this
combination of good steel correctly stropped
makes the Wilkinson the finest shaving in-
strument a man can possess.
RA.IOR In
Oak Case
with two
Hollow
Cround
Blades
sys/6
In Nickel-
plated Caie 19/6*'
In CbronteCaie.
three Blade i
and Strop. 11/6
1-DA Y- ie t
with a blade lor
every day of the
week - • 37/6
HOLLOW GROUND BLADE
SS.I
m
if as
WILKINSON
Made in England by
The Wilkinson Cutlery Co. Ltd.
★ Obtainable from alt Storet if
f
CONOMY
rides along with you in Ford VII
“28 MILES PER GALLON”- P lus all-roundcconomy.
Australia’s leading motor editors have proved Ford
V-8 gives petrol economy of up to 28 m.p.g. No oil is required
between usual changes. Tyre mileage is 15,000 to 18,000.
Resale value is high because used V-B’s arc in constant demand.
ONLY V-8 WITHIN £2OO OF THE PRICE. Typical of Ford
V-B’s super value is its smooth, powerful, economical V-8
engine. No other car within £2OO of Ford V-8 price offers the
advantages of V-8 power. Ford V-8 gives you as well—super-
lative driving case; complete safety; luxury riding comfort;
lavish equipment.
SEE FORD V-8 FIRST! Your nearby Ford Dealer will gladly
place a V-8 at your disposal to test. See him at once and be
sure of having your V-8 ready for Christmas touring. Con-
venient purchase terms available.
FORD n
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD V-B—LOWEST-PRICED FULL-SIZE CLOSED CARS
COUPE from £325
SEDAN from £347
(Prices F. 0.8. Ford Plant, Plus Sales Tax)
FORD . MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) F8.27V
The final div. of Tooth and Co., Syd-
ney, at the rate of 12 p.c. p.a. made
111 P-c. for the co.’s year, which com-
pares with 101 P-c. in the preceding term,
immediately before the slump the rate
was 121 p.c. p.a.; the lowest rate reached
since has been 8 p.c. Last bonus issue
was made in 1929, about the time Resch’s
business was absorbed; one for eight
was handed out from the proceeds of
assets revaluation. In 1936 a one-for-ten
cash issue was subscribed by share-
holders at par. A 121 p.c. div. in 1929
called for £539,860; the latest rate of
distribution (12 p.c. p.a.) would require
£741,840 a year. Accounts to Sept. 30
aren’t yet to hand, but it should have
been an excellent year, taking the hot
summer and sesqui. celebrations into
account.
* * * *
Metals, excepting lead and spelter, last
week kept above the average prices real-
ised during October on the London
Metal Exchange. Tin, following publica-
tion of statistics showing reduced world
stocks, lifted to £216 10s., the highest
quote for over a year; electro, copper
was steady around £52. Lead (£l6) was
down only slightly compared with
October, but spelter (£l4 55.), one of
those inevitable but comparatively ex-
pensive by-products of silver-lead mining,
was erratic, as usual. Only over the past
three years or thereabouts has spelter
been consistently lower in price than lead.
For the first 30 years of this century zinc
almost invariably commanded a substan-
tial premium.
* * * *
Zinc Corp., most attractive-looking
prospect at the Barrier, is gaining in
market appreciation. Not so long ago
the ord. shares were recommended here
when around 635. on the Exchanges.
Last week in Sydney buyers offered
1055., sellers asking 110 s.; in London
87s. sterling was paid, representing 109 s.
Australian. In February this year, when
Norths were around their present figure
and Souths were higher, Zinc ords. were
under 100 s., and the market doesn’t seem
to be fully apprised of Zinc's comparative
merits even yet. Output at the mine is
rising steadily.
* * * *
Sharemarkets have generally been
quiet but firm the last few weeks. Ex-
cept for the optimism in Australian
Glass, the bear squeeze in P. and G.
Finance (Sydney), the momentary panic
in Drug Houses, the glumness in Mt.
Morgan and the sprightliness in Triton
(down to 7s. Id. in Sept., up to 10s. lOd.
last week), there have been no sensational
movements to report.
*=!=**
Buying support for Drug Houses shares
was much in evidence last Tuesday while
this page’s recommendation of the scrip
at 225. 3d. was being printed. In Sydney
1300 shares officially changed hands at
235., orders coming from Melbourne, and
the price showed a gain of 10|d. a share
compared with Monday. In Melbourne
235., 235. 3d. and 235. Id. was paid on
Tuesday. Extensive dealings at near that
figure continued throughout the week.
* * *
Those who bought Australian Gas
(Sydney) shares at the last auction at
prices down to £6 12s. —it was during
war-scare week—are doing all right.
Last sale of the new shares was at £7 7s.
* * * *
Aiter a very disturbing year, Aus-
tralian business stamina continues, on
the whole, to be doggedly resistant to
the difficulties it has had to meet. In-
creased costs, increased taxes, lower
prices for wool and wheat, financial
stringency and “national insurance”
threats have knocked a lot of optimism
out of the outlook, and many businesses
have noticed a check to the growth of
their trade, but well-run concerns seem
to be pretty near holding their own.
Some have suffered more than others ;
some haven’t suffered at all, but have
increased their output and profit. It is
quite clear to most traders and manu-
facturers, however, that we have been
passing through a delicate period, with
the war-scare days unpleasantly coincid-
ing with general economic figures at their
worst. We still have some punch left in
our internal level of costs and prices as
compared with our depreciated pound ;
still some kick left in the increased
efficiency forced on us during the big
depression. And there is more common-
sense in the relations between employer
and employee. But management of the
public purse is still no better than it has
to be.
* # * *
Buyers were offering 14s. for George
Farmer ords. last week in Melbourne.
In May there had been sales of this
Ballarat bacon-curer’s scrip at ss. 6d.
Now that the pref. capital, which called
for £4BOO p.a., is being repaid, hopes are
that profit margins will allow some dis-
tribution to the ords. Certainly the
8 p.c. money wasn’t earning its keep. If
only- half last year's profit is shown dur-
ing the current term it would enable 21
p.c. to be paid on the ords.
* :!•• * *
In Sydney Cash Orders (Amalg.) ords.,
of 12s. each (fully-paid), have in a few
days fallen from 17s. 3d. cum sd. div.
to 16s. ex div. They sold as low as
13s. in September’s week of jitters. The
outlook of finance houses, particularly
cash-order cos., is obscure in the minds
of many investors, especially as interest-
control legislation has been talked of in
N. S. Wales. C.O. (Amalg.) scrip is now
about half its top price of recent years,
and the yield offering is over 11 p.c., as
against 7 p.c. from R. H. Gordon and
8} p.c. from Australian Cash Orders.
Because of difficulties apparently pecu-
liar to itself, P. and G. Finance, Sydney,
which has a very mixed business, made
a heavy loss last year, and is contemplat-
ing jettisoning half its ord. capital.
* * * *
Mark Foy’s, Sydney, has maintained
its ord. interim at 6 p.c. p.a. The ord.
scrip, up to 325. 3d. in 1937, dropped
to a low of 18s. this year, and at the
end of September was around 18s. 6d.
Last week there was support at 20s. 6d.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
In the Land of Purges.
[ln Australian newspapers over the past few years
the praise of Soviet Russia has occupied almost as
much space as the condemnation of other countries.
This (condensed) article by a London “Times” corre-
spondent gives a somewhat different version.]
Early in the period of “planned economy” in
Soviet Russia the order was given for the rapid
mechanisation of agriculture. Some 400,000 tractors
and vast quantities of other agricultural machinery
have been supplied. Production of oil-fuel has not
kept pace with the demands these consumers present,
and large regions are frequently obliged to work on
short rations at critical periods of the sowing and
harvesting seasons. The difficulty is enhanced by the
scarcity of horses. Official figures show that, whereas
in 1929 there were 34,637,900 horses in the Soviet
Union, there are now only 16,200,000.
In theory the peasant should be better able to
cope with his tasks than he could in the horse period,
but in practice it is not so. Neither in area nor in
yield is progress being made. Agricultural production,
far less per head of the population than in pre-war
Russia, is not improving ; it is less to-day than it was
three years ago, though the population has increased
by some 10,000,000, the annual increase being more
than 3,000,000. There is no “bumper harvest” of
grain in Russia this year, and no legitimate surplus of
wheat, rye, oats or barley for export. Indeed, if the
needs of the people were reasonably satisfied, Russia
would be an importer of grain.
In the autumn and early winter the fell hand of
the G.P.U. “purged” and disorganised the so-called ,
machine and tractor stations, on which the peasants
depend for power. These stations did not recover in
time for the spring sowing, and in June the outlook
was decidedly bad.
Waste in harvesting is due largely to breakdowns
in machinery and irregular fuel supplies. The leaders
in Moscow appear to realise their mistake in mechan-
ising both agriculture and the army without first mak-
ing sure of fuel adequacy. The army has first call
on Soviet oil, and agriculture manages to limp along
for the present; but if the Union were engaged in a
major war agriculture would very soon be paralysed.
Therefore the Government has turned to the produc-
tion of liquid motor fuel from organic mud as a new
form or source of fuel. A few years ago there was
similar enthusiasm in Moscow for Russian locusts,
and a grandiose scheme was launched to use their
bodies as lubricating oil. By the beginning of 1938
the Government had despaired of employing the locust
to make the wheels of agriculture go round ; they sent
aeroplanes to the breeding centres and purged some
35,000 acres of these pests.
Nor is the timber industry flourishing. The
armies of forced laborers employed in it are produc-
ing far less than did pre-war Russia. At the end of
August the Government announced that production
was getting worse and worse. In the course of a few
months Minister after Minister had been “removed,”
but even the shooting of high officials as “wilful
wreckers” did not bring about an improvement. One
of the reasons is that for the last 10 years the elemen-
tary rules of forestry and lumbering have been flouted
in the race for quantitative results. In 1913 Russia
exported 7,600,000 tons of timber ; in 1936, 6,044,189
tons ; in 1937, 5,103,268 tons ; in the first half of
1938 the quantity was only two-thirds that of the
same period in 1937.
The coalmines show impressive figures, but here
too quantity is the chief concern. This has risen
threefold or fourfold in the last decade, but recent
disclosures indicate that the total calorific vhlue of
the coal leaving Soviet mines is less even than that of
the output in old Russia. The production of iron-ore
has gone up at a similar rate, and the final result is
similar. The same motive of reaching the figures of
the plan at any price has dominated efforts at the iron
and steel works, which have turned out much trash
passed as standard products. An illustration was given
in August by Lazar Kaganovich, Minister of Heavy
Industry and Railways, who stated that on the 800-
mile Krasnoyarsk line there had been 913 cases of
rails breaking during traffic in the first half of this year.
The race for quantitative output has been the
bane of the industrial system. More factories are run
with irregular supplies of bad fuel; the railways, burn-
ing vast quantities of bad coal to transport other bad
coal to industrial centres, distribute bad products from
these centres throughout the country. The economic
return for the colossal disorderly effort of the mis-
managed centralised plan-system is incredibly low.
Industry itself is consuming the bulk of its own pro-
duction, with a very poor surplus to benefit the people.
And even in quantity the output is often disappoint-
ing: the amount of cotton goods produced per head
of the population is, for instance, only half that of
the pre-war industry.
The übiquitous cry to-day is for capital repairs
of factories and plant. Oiled or not, machines have
been driven to a standstill, patched up, sometimes even
with wire and string, and driven again to a final
breakdown. The same principle has kept railway and
water transport in a perennial state of inefficiency,
with spurts of high achievement here and there at the
cost of damage to tracks and rolling-stock.
The holocaust of directors and engineers shot as
“wreckers” to stimulate others has brought only spasms
instead of healthy improvement. Successors of the
men shot have been faced with the same unaltered
problem, and many have, in turn, gone into the de-
structive mill of the G.P.U., which is grinding to
naught not merely inefficient officials, but the best
specialists who had survived from the past and valu-
able younger experts. Not planned economy but
terrorist inertia is the dominant factor in Russia.
Birthrate Below the Danger Line.
[Sir Arnold Wilson, M.P., in the article here con-
densed from London “Observer,” discusses the alarm-
ing birthrate decline in the democracies, including
Britain, Australia and Maoriland, as compared with
totalitarian and authoritarian countries.]
Birthrate figures are disconcerting to Western
Parliamentary democracies, which are, without excep-
tion, at the bottom of the list and below the danger
line.
Making full allowance for improved survival rates,
a minimum of 200 births annually per 10,000 living
is needed to maintain the population. Sweden, Nor-
way, Belgium, Denmark, Switzerland and Holland
are all below this limit. Austria, at 131, was the
lowest in Europe. Czechoslovakia had fallen from
271 in 1921-25 to 174 in 1936 —a record drop. France
has fallen to 150, the United Kingdom to 153. In
each case the fall has been continuous and unaffected,
for practical purposes, by economic trends or such
remedial measures as have been tried.
The figures for the British Dominions tell much
the same story. South Africa (244) and Canada (200)
are better than others, thanks in each case to their
non-British stock. Australia (171) and New Zealand
(166) are ominously below the danger line, Eire is
better than either at 196, but is handicapped by the
migration of its youth to England.
The worst area is Greater London (136): it is
also the worst recruiting area, whether for the Armed
Forces or for voluntary services. Londoners, in a
word, can neither reproduce nor defend themselves,
but are good at “demonstrating.” One reason among
many is the presence of a great and growing alien
population. The crowd in Whitehall on September
22 and in Hyde Park on September 25 was mostly
foreign-born: it made me feel that London was stuffed
with the world’s dregs. It was not men and women
of British birth who filled the Irish mail and invaded
remote watering-places last September. This is
common knowledge and well known to railwaymen
and house-agents.
The totalitarian and authoritarian States all have
higher birthrates to-day than any of the Parliamentary
democracies.
The conclusion is inescapable. Western Parlia-
mentary democratic systems are, for whatever reason,
co-existent and co-terminous with conditions un-
favorable to national survival. Have we lost the
desire to perpetuate ourselves in the struggle to per-
petuate our liberties? We have maintained and even
raised the standard of living in some walks of life, but
at the expense of a million unborn infants, for the
child population of the United Kingdom has dropped
by this number since 1913-
A nation which cannot perpetuate itself has lost
the biological title-deeds to the soil on which it lives,
for though numbers are not the sole index or national
strength they are, in the ultimate resort, the only valid
claim to hold land. • -
No diplomatic shifts, no rearmament, no inter-
national conferences can long mask the effects ot a
shrinking adult able-bodied population. Germany
has shown that the trend can be reversed: her birth-
rate has risen from 147 to 188 in four years. The
appeal must be to the conscience, and it must be
addressed primarily to women, with whom, in a
majority of cases, the decision seems to rest, for the
marriage rate is not falling. There is a general im-
pression abroad that women, particularly of the
middle and upper classes, in Western Parliamentary
democracies have shown collectively, to judge by the
statistical results of decisions taken individually, either
that they no longer recognise the duty to bring up a
sufficient family, or that they regard the economic
conditions under which they live as more unfavorable
to family life than those of their sisters in totalitarian
and authoritarian States.
It may be, however, that none of these factors
are decisive and that the fundamental causes are
psychological —the widening interests of women, their
preference for “the freedom” of factory, office and pro-
fessional life as compared with “the lifelong bondage”
of motherhood. Commercial advertisements concen-
trate largely on women, inducing them insidiously to
spend relatively more upon the non-essentials of life:
never were appeals to fear more blatant. Woman
deserves her pedestal: upon her patriotism all other
things depend. But it is as mother or potential mother,
not as a living fashion-plate or a factor in the labor
market, that she rules our lives and receives our
homage.
Aga Khan on Peace Prospects.
[Considering the much-labored suggestion that Ger-
many is aiming for war and giving logical reasons lor
refuting it, the Aga Khan in this (condensed) London
“Times” article gives his opinion on how the peace
secured by Mr. Chamberlain at Munich can be made
lasting.]
The substance of German unity is now achieved.
What is still outstanding? Eupen, and
Schleswig are so small that no sane person can imagine
a world war for these areas. Poland? Herr Hitlers
greatest triumph, the foundation of all his later suc-
cesses, was his prompt understanding with Poland,
his acceptance of the fact that the Reich has more
than 30,000,000 Polish neighbors, and that even a suc-
cessful attempt to suppress their outlet to the sea
would make eternal enemies of them.
A “live-and-let-live” policy with the Poles, recog-
nising the Corridor and the fact that over 1,000,000
Germans would remain in Poland, has given Germany
security in the East. She will not risk that security
at the price of local conquests. Danzig will prob-
ably come under direct Reich administration by an
amicable arrangement with Poland, and a similar
accord probably awaits Memel. But it is inconceivable
that such settlements could cause a world war.
Will Germany turn west and attack France?
What for? Alsace-Lorraine? There may be 1,500,000
men of Teutonic descent in those provinces, but what
about the cost of conquest? Germany would lose
more than that total of young men, on whom the
future of the race depends. Besides, what would
Germany do with Alsace-Lorraine even supposing she
got it at this terrible cost? France and England would
still exist and there could be no real peace with them.
Germany was unable to absorb these people last time:
they remained Alsatians from 1870 to 1914 and, as
such, were saturated with French ideals.
Would Germany try to take the Channel ports?
It would mean war with Belgium, thereby repeating
the follies of 1914 and uniting half the world against
the aggressor.
What about the Ukraine? Germany could only
attack her if Poland were an enemy or an ally. If
an enemy, the problem of the 30,000,000 Poles per-
manently hostile to' Germany would arise. If she
became the ally of Germany in this venture which of
the two countries would gather the spoils? If Poland
did so she would become almost equal to Germany
in power, and this certainly would not be to the latter’s
interest. A German Ukraine would place Poland in
the nutcrackers, and she will avoid such a fate.
We all know that Germany will ask for colonies.
But can she use aggressive methods to obtain them?
To conquer and keep colonies she would have to be
stronger than England and France combined at sea.
By the Anglo-German Naval Agreement Herr Hitler
has recognised Britain’s naval supremacy. As long
as colonies are owned by other countries it is impos-
sible to deny permanently Germany’s right to share.
If some have vast colonies Germany will also claim
a place in the tropical sun. To bring about a per-
manent understanding on the colonial question the
men who negotiate for Great Britain must possess
imagination, great ability, courage and resource ; they
must not be tied down to precedent or red-tape. Men
with these qualities can arrange an African readjust-
ment that will satisfy Germany once and for all.
Merely to return one or other of the old colonies is
no solution. This matter must be tackled with bold-
ness and vision..
Herr Hitler and others have said that they need
land, but they have also said that the population
problem may be solved by their country becoming
one of the workshops of. the world. We must realise
ttrat there are spheres where, for geographical and
A Dean Inge Article.
In “Uncabled Additions” ( B. 2/11/’3B) appeared
a brief digest of a London ‘‘Evening Standard” article
in which Dean Inge opposed Britain’s vague commit-
ments to France (‘‘For 25 rears we have been dragged
at the chariot-wheels of that ambitious Power”), and
upheld the Chamberlain-Hitler no-war pact as prob-
ably ‘‘the most important outcome of the crisis.”
Mr. W. E. Kittle, Brisbane ‘‘Telegraph's” news
editor, points out that Dean Inge’s article was pub-
lished in his newspaper, which hold's the publishing
rights for Queensland. Mr. Kittle further suggests
that the publishing of the (condensed) article under
the caption ‘‘Uncabled Additions” implied that ‘‘all
Australian newspapers had suppressed Dean Inge’s
views.”
The Bulletin is pleased to see Brisbane ‘‘Tele-
graph” publishing the Dean’s articles, which are
thoughtful, lucid, sometimes important and always
a great deal more sane and wise than the bulk of
anonymous speculations and views served up in cables
as news. It is good to see an Australian newspaper
thus upholding journalism's function of genuinely seek-
ing to inform and enlighten.
At the same time the suggestion of ‘‘implying
suppression” is emphatically refuted. The caption
of these pages does not imply “suppression.” No
newspaper can publish everything. An object of these
pages is to provide Australian and Maoriland readers
with digests of informative articles and reports on
foreign affairs and general subjects appearing in over-
seas, newspapers and journals. There is no suggestion
whatever that these items have been “suppressed”;
The Bulletin is still able to think more highly of
Australian journalism than that.
It seems clear, however, that in present-day
journalism views have very largely taken the place
of news, and The Bulletin has noticed—as many
people must have done—that views of one color greatly
predominate. “Uncabled Additions” seek to correct
the balance; to show that other views are ,pub-
lished in responsible overseas newspapers, and so con-
tribute something of real value in informing and
enlightening Australians and Maorilanders.


BETTER ECONOMY
Save
tyre
/,
every
yet qet
A MONEY SAVER
AT EVERY TURN
Dunlop 9-T-l combines all the best qualities that you
want in a tyre—yet at lower prices .. . Extra miles, non-
skid safety, silence without loss of safety, and weftless cord.
There’s no better value on the tyre market!
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD. (Inc. in Yic.) F 713.32
Built with
Weftless Cord
THROUGHOUT THE BRITISH EMPIRE MOST PEOPLE RIDE
DUNLOP TYRES
natural reasons, Germany will be the dominating eco-
nomic factor. Commercial treaties can be made by
which Germany may become one of the great ex-
changing countries, and history proves that such busi-
ness intercourse is for the good of all the nations
concerned. These economic understandings will be
the ultimate solution of Germany’s population
problem.
The idea of an ideological preventive war against
the totalitarian States may be dismissed as too im-
moral to be worthy of consideration. So we have
now reached the point in this survey of the horizon
where we find no reason why the glorious victory for
peace with honor won by the Prime Minister need
degenerate into a truce. Reason, self-interest, con-
science: all point to peace. What are the next steps
to make peace a reality?
The Fiihrer has repeatedly and most solemnly
declared that just as the frontier with Italy is final,
definite and sacred, so he considers the present frontier
with France to be inviolable. Let us take him at his
word. Why not begin with a non-aggression treaty
between Germany and France on one side, and Great
Britain and Germany on the other? Such a treaty
between Great Britain and Germany alone would not
be in keeping with the spirit or letter of an Anglo-
French alliance. But the conclusion of such a treaty
between all three Powers would be the beginning of
the work of building a real world peace.
Further, a complete understanding with Italy
in respect ol Mediterranean interests and safeguard-
ing her communications with her African Empire
would make stable the prospects of peace among these
four European Powers. This would naturally be fol-
lowed by qualitative and quantitative disarmament,
mutually agreed, and guarantees of one another’s
frontiers and colonies. Thus, by a natural process of
evolution, the actively friendly relations of the four
great Powers could be made the foundation of a new,
real, growing, all-embracing system of collective
security for mankind.
The German Trade Threat.
[Various Jeremiahs in Australia—-among them N. S'.'
Wales Premier Stevens —have foretold calamitous results
of German economic expansion in Europe. Beverley
Baxter, M.P., in the article here condensed from
London ‘‘Sunday Graphic,” propounds another view
on that alleged menace.]
In the House of Commons Captain McMillan
described how Germany was going to drive through
Eastern Europe, taking our trade away.
Was there no end to this Hitler’s villainies?
Britain to lose her Balkan and Danubian trade! I
went to the library and looked up the figures for
1937. If we were to face disaster we had better know
its dimensions. Here is the picture in round figures.
In 1937 these nations
Sold to Bought fron
Great Britain. Great Britair
Hungary £2,500,000 £580,000
Czechoslovakia .. .. 7,300,000 3,100,000
Yugoslavia 2,500,000 1,000,000
Poland 10,800,000 7,600,000
Rumania 4,500,000 1,900,000
Total £27,600,000 £14,180,000
So this is the trade which may be taken from us
by rapacious Germany?
The figures tell a story which is as plain as day-
light. With the exception of Poland it is not normal
trade at all. It is artificially stimulated and the cost
falls on this country. We are not doing business with
these small countries ; we are buying it.
As for Poland we need not worry. Germany
cannot absorb her textile exports, and since Anglo-
Polish trade is carried almost altogether in British
ships I am glad that this will go on.
If Germany by guaranteeing the export of their
commodities can raise the standard of living of the
European peasant, good luck to her. The whole
world will benefit —and that includes Britain.
“Ah!” but my friend McMillan will say, “all
this economic domination [you will note that German
trade is always domination] is merely a prelude to
the day when Germany, having absorbed Central
and Eastern Europe, and having reduced France to
impotence, will turn on us and take our Empire by
the sword.”
Granted that Germany may bind all the small
Eastern European nations to her economically, granted
that she may even succeed in having Fascist or semi-
Fascist Governments set up in these countries—is that
the end of the story? Are those unrelenting realists
—Bulgars, Serbs, Greeks, Turks, Poles, Hungarians
and Rumanians—suddenly to become the united slaves
of one people? Not while there is a sun and a moon
in the sky. They will trade, they will even imitate
the German form of government, but the fierce love
of independence will remain and grow stronger as it
is threatened.
Look at Germany’s problems—an undigested
Austria ; a derelict area wrenched from Czecho-
slovakia ; a rising cost of living ; a dwindling export
trade ; a crushing burden of armaments cost.
We guarantee the new Czech State. It may be
that the risk is justified, although I doubt it. But if
we can risk so much in Europe, can’t we risk some-
thing for a great drive to make the component parts
of our Empire peaceful fortresses of prosperity and
human happiness? Why not let Germany have
Europe’s trade? It might well be the beginning of
real peace for that unhappy continent. But when
shall we realise again that we are an overseas Power?
Our menace and our opportunity alike are across
the seas in the undeveloped heritage of our Empire.
“The Labor Party Failed.”
fin last week’s Uncabled Additions there was pub-
lished from the Manchester “Guardian” a case against
British Labor’s policy in the September crisis written
by Mr. Hector Hughes, K.C., on breaking with the
party of which he was an old supporter. Here con-
densed from the Labor “Daily Herald” is another
trenchant criticism, written by the well-known novelist
J. D. Beresford. Both articles make especially curious
reading in view of the suggestion sedulously put out in
cables that it is Mr. Chamberlain’s position that has
been weakened since Munich.]
The Labor party has been my party for over 30
years. And then came those desperate, threatening
days in which 1 saw my party, the party that had
always stood for peace, pursuing in the House of
Commons a policy that seemed to me to be the flat
denial of its traditional principles.
That was more than I could endure, and that is
why 1 am addressing the Labor party through its
most authoritative organ, to warn it that I, and
those who feel as I do, could not stand by it at the
next general election, if it adopted the attitude held
by Mr. Attlee in the debate that began on October 3.
And I am not expressing the views of an exceptional
individual, but, 1 believe, of a very large number of
thinking people.
Let us face the truth that Czechoslovakia’s state
was doomed, whether we went to war on her behalf or
not. The Czechs themselves were wise enough to
know that partial dismemberment was preferable to
extinction.
No, what counted, what is at the back of all the
criticism of Chamberlain’s Four-Power agreement, is
the fear of a strong Germany. It was that, rather
than any sympathy for Belgium, which was the deter-
mining factor in 1914. But how can the Labor party
stand for a policy of that sort? I and my sort believe
that there are enough sensible men and women in the
British Isles to refuse to be duped by that argument
for the second time within a generation.
When we see our leaders taking the side of mili-
tarism for party purposes, we refuse to stand by
them. But do not think that we refuse solely on
pacifist grounds. They are strong enough, but there
are other grounds equally strong, based on our in-
creasing longing for more sincerity in politics. It
requires great moral courage in politics to admit that
the enemy is, for once, doing the right thing. This
was a wonderful occasion for doing that. Mr. Maxton,
whose courage is unimpeachable, did it. The Labor
party failed.
Yet what, I ask, was the reason for the immense
wave of popular feeling that swept the whole country
as it watched Chamberlain’s recent efforts to avoid
war? Was it only fear of war’s consequences? It
was not. What moved so large a body of people to
cheers and tears was the amazing spectacle of the
leader of a great political party acting for once in
deep sincerity. What we want is honest, straight-
forward leaders, not clever politicians.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
There are no half-measures about the
way in which some racehorses lose torm
or strike it. Manolive ran like a com-
moner in the Caulfield and Melbourne
Cups. Four days after Catalogue’s lucky
victory, the horse from Westralia won
the V.R.C. Final Handicap in Manfred’s
well-remembered style. The succeeding
Saturdays saw him clear away with the
Williamstown Cup and the V.A.T.C.
Eclipse Stakes—so brilliantly that people
are now regretting that Ajax wasn’t a
starter in one or other.
The Eclipse Stakes was worth £1750
to the winner—a nice plum to extract
from a spring racing pudding into which
local and inter-State owners had been
dipping for many successive weeks. Mel-
bourne clubs have “money to burn.
Otherwise, how would the V.A.T.C. be
distributing £5300 in an afternoon when
most of the visiting trainers had gone
home?
Never was the issue in doubt. Man-
olive made his own running—unchal-
lenged and, indeed, unchallengeable.
Fred Shean gave his mount free rein
over the last three furlongs only, and
Manolive bolted home by lengths
from Kingdom in 2min. 16|sec. for 11
furlongs. The course (and Australasian)
record for the distance is 2min.
established by Burlesque, who carried
171 b. less than Manolive had in the
saddle.
After losing ground at the start and
being last half-way through the race,
Kingdom acquitted himself really well
in depriving Young Idea of second place.
Some day Kingdom will land a good
stake, but he is a hazardous betting pro-
position.
Manolive belongs to A. A. Spencer,
who conducts what he modestly terms
a “machinery junk shop” in Perth. This
grey-headed businessman didn’t take any
interest in horseracing until the autumn
of 1934 ; then, being on a visit to Mel-
bourne, he bought eight yearlings—two
each by Manfred, Beau Fils and Devizes,
and one each by Great Star and Tri-
valve.
These young thoroughbreds involved
an outlay of about £lOOO, landed in
Perth. They were leased to Westralian
trainers. Five found their way on to
the winning list; others met with acci-
dents ; one had to be destroyed. Man-
olive was raced and trained by J. E. Hay
when he won the Perth Cup of 1937.
Spencer resumed possession on the ex-
piration of Hay’s lease.
Each at his top, could Manolive beat
Ajax at w.f.a.? Not at any distance up
to a mile and a half ; but he would make
a better race of it with the champion
than Royal Chief did.
John Wren owns a most promising
colt in Wilson (Siegfried-Lilock). The
Maoriland-bred youngster put in a splen-
didly-sustained run to defeat Limerick
Lace in the Stansmore Two-year-old.
Wilson was a 3-to-l favorite. He is
the second purchase made on Wren’s
behalf at M.L. yearling sales by Charles
Wheeler, who won a Melbourne Cup
with The Parisian. First was Beau Frere
(Beau Pere-Chelae), now three years old
but still a maiden. Frank Musgrave, his
trainer, says Beau has “plenty of
speed but no guts. ’
Divisions of the Maiden Two-year-old
went to Aranui (sevens) and Tovaros
(9 to 4, favorite). Aranui was brought
over from Maoriland with Queen of
Song by P. T. Hogan, their owner.
Tovaros belongs to S. B. Ferguson, and
is a sister to Lochlee, a clinking good
juvenile, who contracted some mysteri-
ous ailment which keeps him out of
racing.
Baryta (sevens) registered a smashing
victory in the Ormond Handicap. Behind
him were Grecian Prince, Jakin and
Hilton; the last-named pair were first
and second most of the way.
Scomius, favorite for the Tara Steeple,
broke his neck six furlongs from home.
Jack Tar, almost friendless at 20 to 1,
outstayed Fullarton’s heavily-supported
mount, Sarokos, at the finish.
Another severe blow to backers was
when Aurie’s Star (eights) beat Manrico
pointless in the Rosstown Plate. Jack
Plolt and his followers reckoned Man-
rico to be nearly as great a certainty as
Manolive had proved, and 5 to 4 was
the best price obtainable about J. M.
Niall’s sprinter. Setting lrnin. 104-sec.
for six furlongs, Aurie’s Star equalled
the course record. He has been very
successful at Caulfield.
* * * *
Bendigo Cup, another subsidiary event
of the spring season in Victoria, was
disposed of last Wednesday. Worth
£750, of which the owner of the winner
took £5OO and a £5O trophy, it is the
most valuable race outside the metro-
politan area. The Bendigo Jockey Club
“ Don't you worry — We've got the right of Way."
had no reason to repent its enterprise,
as there was a bumper attendance.
T. R. Bradfield, whose father trained
Patron, Portsea, The Victory, King Offa,
Lucknow, Night Watch and Backwood,
landed the Cup with Maluno (Heroic-
Desert Song), whom he holds on lease
from F. S. Austin. In so doing Tom re-
peated his success of 1937 in the same
race with Evening Mist.
Ashley Reed, who had been associated
with the victory of Evening Mist, rode
Maluno, and his horsemanship was
largely responsible for the gelding stall-
ing off a late challenge from Prince Sion
(eights). The pacemaker, Princess Pam
(10 to 1), finished a close third. Maluno
always headed the betting quotes, going
out at 4 to 1.
At the Randwick yearling sales in
1935 young Bradfield bought Maluno, on
behalf of F. S. Austin, for 800gns. He
had previously won a Maribyrnong Plate
for that patron with Bimilla. On his
breeding lines Maluno is qualified to
figure in the very highest company.
Apart from being by Heroic, the geld-
ing is out of Desert Song (Spearhead-
Even Song), whose dam is a half-sister to
Traquair (sire of Woorak) and
Chersonese (dam of Heroic). So there is
Chersonese blood on both sides of the
pedigree.
Opening event of the Bendigo pro-
gramme, a hurdle race, went to Heroic s
Pride (Heroic-Kalyanni), owned by
Archie Crofts, chain-store proprietor
and South Melbourne football supporter,
who did so well with Valiant Chief.
Heroic’s Pride and Maluno came under
the hammer in the same ring as yearlings
Crofts paid 1000 guineas for Heroics
Pride, the outlay being 200 guineas greatei
than in the case of Maluno. Unfortu-
nately Heroic’s Pride contracted a ha bn
of remaining at the post. Ultimately he
was transferred from the stable ot bred
Hoysted to that of J. Fryer.
Frver has a possible Grand National
horse in Heroic’s Pride. Sent out equal
favorite (at 5 to 2) with Bas Rhin, who
unexpectedly scored over the battens on
Williamstown Cup day, he accounted toi
that rival with the greatest of ease.
Ted Temby, the former Westralian
trainer and owner, pulled off a betting
coup with Great Legend (Great Star-
Belgian Myth) in the Epsom Handicap
at Bendigo. Backed down to 7 to 4, old
Press Gang, a castoff from Jack Holt s
stable, finished almost last. Great
Legend, piloted by an apprentice, won
easily from Craigavad and Miss Burn.
Nice odds of 7 to 1 were on offer against
Temby’s prad.
* * * *
The appearance at Warwick Farm of
two Newcastle horses, Bradford and Red
Thespian, brought back sad memories to
this Page on the journey home. Red
Thespian was here tipped for the 1937
Epsom and Bradford for the 1938 Don-
caster. Both won at Warwick Farm, and
the prophet hadn’t a razoo on either.
Red Thespian is getting up in years,
and is not now likely to carry off a big
race ; but there is still hope for Brad-
ford. A five-year-old stallion by Rossen-
dale-Princess Delight, Bradford is a
really good miler when in condition and
when he gets an uninterrupted passage.
Hitherto he has been a slow beginner
with an unfortunate habit of striking
trouble in a big field; but he got up
steam briskly enough on Saturday and
was never in a pocket. And the race —
called the Horsley Handicap—was a six-
furlongs affair, run in fast time for the
Farm—lmin. 12isec.
It was Bradford’s first start since that
Doncaster meeting. Laid early at 20 to
1, he closed at sixes. After trailing
Eastern Maid and Bodley Head, the New-
castle horse dashed away from the
leaders at the home turn, and won with-
out being extended. Bodley Head was
a fair second, and is improving with
racing; Roginer was third. June was
favorite; Hammerhead opened in that
position, but eased from threes to sixes.
He played up at the barrier, was sent
to the outside and was hopelessly placed
all the way.
Bradford is owned by a dairy-farmer,
E. F. Smith, who has a private training
track near a beach, and gives his horses
plenty of swimming. He won a double
at Warwick Farm, the other race, the
Maiden Handicap, going to Bradford’s
younger brother, Leeds. Favorite at
2 to 1, largely because Darby Munro was
in the saddle, Leeds was never off the bit,
and should win again soon. Aristocrat
and Retort earned place-money for their
owners.
Red Thespian’s race was the Leumeah
Handicap, and he was favorite at 9 to 2.
He is owned by a pastoralist, H. R.
Munro, and was excellently ridden by S.
Jones, who deserves more opportunities.
Turning for home Red Thespian secured
a break which enabled him to hold off
Panrose by a neck, Troy being third, a
length away. Improvement was running
on strongly at the finish and got fourth
position. Irish Morn, who looked big
and burly, ran well until his condition
gave out.
Sun Call (Call of the Sun-Rythona)
proved himself a pretty fair colt in a
division of the Hoxton Park Juvenile
Stakes. He is a half-brother to Hope.
At threes early, he drifted to sixes, but
that didn’t prevent his winning convinc-
ingly from Nubian Prince and Roller
Glide. The favorite, Nubian Prince, is
fast, but Mirage kept him going for a
couple of furlongs, and that took a lot
out of him.
Beau Mari lost the second division
through being left about six lengths.
Rushed to the lead at the top of the
straight, he went wide, and was no match
for Bonny Loch in the run home. The
latter, a stablemate of Morning Gift,
is a smart-looking colt by Rampion from
Bonnie Valerie, who won races for
trainer Papworth. Metallic was a poor
third. Bonny Loch started at 5 to 2,
while backers freely laid 2 to 1 on Beau
Mari; one wager was £lOOO to £5OO.
The Farm Novice for apprentice riders
was the best betting race of the day. It
went to Scarlet Circle (5 to 1), well
handled by Adderley, the rider of Alan
Verde. Markos (8 to 1) made the finish
interesting. Ladeer was third.
The Ring laid 5 to 4 and evens Oscu-
lum in the Warwick November Handicap,
though he had only four opponents. Mrs.
E. J. Watt’s galloper went unkindly in the
early stages, but in the run home young
Lappin drove him along, and he won
nicely from Alice Springs and Klemm
Eagle. Golden Treasure (3 to 1) was
tailed off all the way, and scrambled
home only ahead of The World. Oscu-
lum is to be kept in training for the long
races at Randwick.
* * * *
“T.”: At Williamstown after the Cup
people were proclaiming Manolive the
greatest horse that ever won that race.
What about Merman, who won in 1896?
Merman was then a four-year-old and
carried 9st. 41b. In England the next
year he had entered upon the career
which ended in the unanimous verdict
of English racing men that he was the
greatest stayer of his day. In 1897 Mer-
man won the Cesarewitch with 7s. 51b.
In ’99 Grand Flaneur’s son won
the Goodwood Cup with 9st. 51b.,
and in 1900 the Ascot Cup with
9st. 41b.; distance in each case twp
miles and a half. In Australia
he raced in W. R. Wilson’s colors, in
England in those of Lily Langtry. That
was a great period for Australian-bred
horses in England: in 1898 Georgic won
the Cambridgeshire, and the City and
Suburban fell to Australian horses in
three successive years—lB99 (Newhaven),
1900 (The Grafter), 1901 (Australian
Star). But the Duke of Portland bought
Carbine for his stud and Australian
studmasters took to breeding from
broken-winded brutes bought cheap in
England and the vogue of Australian-
bred horses went out of fashion.
“Blue Chalk”: A protest against what
he called the hazy definition of what
constitutes a billiard cue was made by
an English player, Brown, in a match
at Thurston’s with Tom Newman.
Brown, being snookered, played a shot
with a fountain-pen to which he had
fixed a cork tip. He was penalised seven
points. The name billiards originated
from the French bille, which in English
is “billet” or piece of stick. Since the
fountain-pen could by no means be re-
garded as a stick, its use was, therefore,
illegal.
*** \ *
“S.T.S.”: One of those minor miracles
that keep cricket interesting has occurred
in a district club match in Adelaide. Uni-
versity had rattled out Prospect for 84,
and then made 73 with only four wickets
down. The students had a week to cal-
culate on their assured win ; and then
didn’t get it. The fast stuff of Cotton
(who has played for S.A.) took four
wickets in his first over, and the other
two followed with the total at 79.
(Continued on page 32.)
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Benefit Handicap: Master
Motley ; next, Larissa.
Fund Handicap: Keeping Watch ;
next, Jakin.
Benevolent Highweight: Gold
Token ; next, Pine Peak.
Trial Handicap: Quicksilver;
next, Only One.
FOR ROSEHILL.
November Handicap: Panrose ;
next, Troy.
Clyde Handicap: Bradford ; next,
Moaenza.
Novice Handicap: Leeds; next,
Peekmond.


FOR
A
/
T
T
DRINK
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Now, perhaps more than at any other time of the year,
Wolfe’s Schnapps plays an important part in maintain-
ing good health. Its mild tonic action and unique medi-
cinal properties provide that little help and correction so
necessary to keep the system functioning normally
through the trying summer months.
Cool and cooling, possessing all the distinctive flavour
and aroma of genuine Schiedam Schnapps, Wolfe’s is
undoubtedly the most beneficial and pleasing of summer
drinks. Yet, at the same time, it is more than this— for
in character and constituents Wolfe’s Schnapps is essen-
tially a Health Drink.
olfe:
N
IWMTIfL
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN
AS FOR MEN
W. 5.146.8.


you can depend on
CHAMPION SSE
for ECONOMY
A tankful of fuel carries you
much farther when your engine
is getting the benefit of strong
hot sparks. Install a set of
new Champions. Enjoy this
saving—and getmore speed,
power and acceleration too.
An Empireproducf—made
in Windsor,Can. i
\M
WBmk
H
m
m
*BS& • *
(4j
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
You’ve got to have
ACCURACY
in a tyre gauge
Calibrated up to
501 b. in large, clear
figures. Handsomely
finished in leather
wallet.
>/<0
>7
WSS
A “fairly
accurate” tyre
gauge is useless
—it cannot give you
a perfectly balanced
car. The Kismet “Cadet”
is guaranteed accurate.
Used regularly it ensures
your driving comfort', skid-
less motoring and less tyre wear.
KISMET
CADET'TYRE GAUGE
William Turner & Bros., Ltd., Eyre Works, Sheffield, Eng.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb., Vic.
7/6
PLUMB AXES
PLUMB
DELORAINE AXEMEN’S CARNIVAL
TASMANIA —sth and 7th NOVEMBER, 1938
80 Axes on the ground—77 were
PLUMB AXES. PLUMB AXES WON ALL FINALS.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Eddie Scarf’s Debut
Former amateur grappling champ.
Eddie Scarf succeeded at his second
attempt at Sydney Stadium in becoming
a dyed-in-the-wool pro. At his first
attempt his prospective victim got as far
as the dressing-room, but there thought
better of it. His second opponent turned
out to be an authentic specimen of prime
Australian beef on the hoof —one Louis
Pardello, 17st. 41b.; just the bare 3st.
weightier than Eddie.
It availed Louis devil a bit. In the
first round Eddie lifted him off the mat,
held him chest-high, and then flung him
down and pinned him. In the second
Louis gathered Eddie up in his crooked
arms like a mother her offspring, and set
Off at a fair striding bat in the direction
of Bourke. In this aim he was frustrated
by the corner-post of the ring, against
which he pressed Eddie with such pro-
digious enthusiasm that he himself fell
over backwards, Eddie atop of him.
Eddie thereupon nailed him, and the
bout was over.
At the weights it was not so surpris-
ing that Eddie, though he won easily,
didn’t really make much of a showing.
The bout which followed made his
chance of being any great guns as an
Australian professional champ, look
pretty dismal. This was between Dean
Detton, who tips the beam more than a
stone and a half better than Eddie, and
is withal a clinking wrestler, and Brother
Jonathan, just another couple of stone
heavier than Detton, and a wild and
woolly customer to encounter on a dark
night. Jonathan, who might have stepped
out of an Oswald Pryor drawing, wears
the facial fungus approved by Pryor’s
Cousin Jacks. This he is pleased to call
his spinach, while his opponents, for
their part, are always pleased to do their
best to tug it off him. The ref. also
finds it handy in breaking holds that the
good Brother insists on maintaining.
In an uproarious encounter the Dean
licked the Brother, who helped to give
the crowd good value by remaining in
the ring expressing original ideas about
Detton and the ref. It was a tidy crowd,
too ; the Rushcutter Bay building packed
to the rafters. Because of the general
furious nature of the affray, it could be
safely predicted that the same pair would
pack it again. What either of them
would make of Eddie might also be pre-
dicted with a fair margin of safety.
Ins and Oufs
“Fitzcray”: As expected, “The Rest
of Australia” team to meet Brad-
man’s side in Melbourne on December 9
is mostly Victorians. Also Barnes,
who, it was stated at first, was not to
play because he was practically one of
the Eleven, has been pushed into “The
Rest,” which means that some aspirant
for a trial in big cricket has to stand
down. Besides Barnes, only three men
come from outside the Cabbage Garden:
Don Tallon (Q.), Christ (Q.) and Eyres
(W.A.), a medium right-hander. Rigg is
skipper.
* * * #
Several of the returned Australian XI
showed recovered form at the week-end.
In a club game in Adelaide Badcock ran
up 142 in 163 minutes, and in Melbourne
Barnett scored 128 in 132 minutes. In
Sydney O’Reilly, who plays for St.
George, took 14 Paddington wickets for
42, getting the hat trick. And it wasn’t
a bad pitch.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Brown signalised his return
to Queensland cricket with 118 for the
Colts, of which he is coach-captain.
Bowler Cook, one of the State team, took
6 for 50 in another grade match, Dixon
6 for 53 and Bill Tallon 6 for 89. Don
Tallon got his eye in for the Sheffields
by sending back six batsmen, three
stumped and three caught.
* * * *
“Bramall Lane”: Sep Carter, back
from touring England with the Austra-
“Next year I'll buy ’em a surfboat .”
Hans, has delivered the most sensible
comment on the tour yet published. He
begins with the entirely correct opinion
that the Bradmanites were lucky to
hang on to the rubber. Our bowling,
with one exception, was poor stun, and
much of the talk about the Australians
being overworked was footle, days being
saved on several occasions; once the
team was practically idle for a week,
Carter wants more matches in the North,
where cricket really matters. In the South
k arouses little interest outside the Tests
ln London, as is seen in a comparison of
gates. Amalgamation of the weaker
counties for Australian matches is what
Carter would like to see.
“Aigburth”: The English Board of
Control is meeting this week in London
to settle the matter of the duration of
Test matches. General opinion in Eng-
land and among the experts on this side
is that the board will decide for five-day
matches—why, it is hard to say, in view
of the fact that none of the recent Tests
in England, marathon-grade as a couple
of them were, ran that distance. Many
like the writer, would like to see the full
teast tewoSldtaterfere whh thfcounfy
week far tess than the fcu “Say system ;
that condemns a professional chosen for
a Test to two days unpaid idleness after
T “‘ - ds - . . .
“Aigburth”: English sporting scribes
are annoyed at the suggestions of re-
turned’ Australian cricketers that future
programmes should be curtailed. One
charge is that, in cases where they could
have polished off matches in a couple of
days, the Australians preferred to play
them out by refusing the follow-on to
opponents. To that the answer is that the
visitors were begged to do this very thing
—the Worcestershire match is a case in
point—in order to drag in every razoo of
gate money possible. The Australian
match is the average county’s meal
ticket, and the most has to be made of it.
» * * *
“Tenth Slip”: N.S.W. selectors picked
a fair 12 for the opening Sheffield with
Queensland at Brisbane at the end of
the month. There was a fear that Barnes,
on the strength of a .■ f £ w 5 %
bitions in England, might be pitc or
into the job of wicketkeeper he is in
as a batsman—but, fortunately, Easton,
a fl ne batsman and one who as a ’keeper
wou ] d have filled Oldfield’s billet years
had the ve teran not lasted so well,
J referred Six of the men are new
ffields and it is pleasant to note
Hatem™ who is rather
thal . lect circles because he goes
after the runs, has got his chance. James,
another fine tat. » onll [ ™° “
j went straight
Mcuanery anu * district
S 3? plpTh whorls Som PaS'is
a hard-hitter who is showmg fondle*/
reaching class as a e - . o '
Murphy, another newcomer,
bowler. Pepper is 22, Carmody 19, Mc-
Caffery 20, Minter 21 and James 18. The
old yelp about “experience” which has
led to the inclusion in our teams of so
many nonagenarians seems to have been
torpedoed.
* * * *
<tT .. ~ , , , .
Jolimont ; Many will be glad to note
a recovery of his old form by Bromley,
who, after a flop in England with Wood-
full’s last team, was dropped from the
Victorian side. Bromley has been brush-
ing up his bowling, which promises to
be one of his great assets, and took 8
wickets for 15 for St. Kilda. He fol-
lowed this up with a fine 184, made in


HIS DENTURES
mRifSJAINED
WITH [SMOKING
BEFORE
=
AFTER
Now 4 Clean
as new.’
WONDERFUL
results from
4 Steradent ’
c My dentures were in a very bad con-
dition with smoking. But since I have used
‘ Steradent' every trace of discolouration
has gone. I consider no smoker with dentures
should be without c Steradent .’
G.F.P., Peckham.
‘ Steradent ’ is so simple to use. Fill the cap
of the tin with ‘ Steradent ’ and pour the
powder into a glass containing sufficient warm
water (not hot) to cover the dentures. Stir
well. Put in your dentures and leave them
while you dress, or overnight. Take them out
and rinse thoroughly under the tap.
Stains vanish even the blackest tobacco
stains disappear completely after a few treat-
ments. Discoloured plates regain their natural
colour. Dull, yellow-tinged teeth become clean
lustrous like natural teeth. ‘Steradent’
ensures germ-free purified plates and leaves
them fresh and cool.
Dentists say ‘Steradent’ is by far the best
dental cleaning preparation ever produced.
Price 2/-. Double size 3/6 at all chemists.
You are safe with ‘Sterarlent.’ It is highly
recommended by the Dental profession.
RECKITTS (OVER SEA) LTD.
(Pharmaceutical Dept.), Sydney.
Steradent
cleans and sterilizes false teeth
Add extra horse-power to you engine
with improved Pins!
1)1
ft
j*hojh& •
There is a grade to suit your car!
SUPER PLUS ETHYL the premium grade
the ideal fuel for modern cars and trucks. Super Plus
is the only full Ethyl petrol that also contains benzol—and
offers you exceptionally high anti-knock quality together
with amazing mileage!
PLUS BENZOL is the outstanding motor spirit
in the standard grade field. Petrol-benzol blends are
sold in other markets at premium rates but Plus Benzol
is available in Australia at the standard grade price.
n
REMEMBER only C.O.R Petrols
contain BENZOL.
BRITISH
AUSTRALIAN
PETROLS
EXTRA POWER EXTRA MILEAGE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED »„ A „«,
Incorporated in Victoria with Branches at Melbourne Sydney :: Brisbane :: Adelaide Perth.
Oil Co. Ltd.)
C14V27/SP
quite his old style, and may yet find the
Australian team again.
* * * *
“Hotham”: It was expected that a
successor to the late Hugh Trumble as
secretary of the Melbourne C.G., a
£lOOO-a-year job, would have been ap-
pointed last week, but after a powwow
the committee resolved to advertise the
job all over Australia and pick the pea
out of the applicants.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Of late it has been
the fashion to exploit golf capacity as
tennis stars are exploited. Young Ferrier
has risen in revolt. He refused to
meet Bobby Locke in an exhibition,
though he relented as a matter of cour-
tesy to a distinguished visitor. Now he
has point-blank declined to play Cremin,
professional champion of N.S.W. and
Australia, as Ferrier is the amateur title-
holder. Ferrier points out that he has
already shown Cremin the way home in
four open championships, and thinks
that is enough.
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: This year’s struggle for
the Dunlop Cup at Brisbane was a case
of youth and age. Brown, doyen of
Queensland professionals, was beaten
7 and 6 by Anderson, of Wynnum, cham-
pion of the young brigade. Brown used
to be known as “One-Putt Brown” in
his heyday. Anderson has succeeded to
this title as well as others since ; for the
30 holes of the match he averaged 13
under 2’s. He had eight one-putt greens,
and did the final hole-out with a chip.
* m * *
“Victoria Park”: Nothing like keeping
the currency in circulation. Last year
Brisbane professionals Walker and An-
derson, keen rivals, played matches for
£25 a side, each winning one. Now each
will try to get some of the money back
from the other in a 36-holes match at
Ipswich on November 27.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Von Nida and Cremin are
to turn their trip to the Philippines into
a world tour. They leave Sydney on
December 17, will play matches at Bris-
bane and Townsville on the way to
Manila, and after the championships will
come back through Singapore, Penang
and Sourabaya. They’re to be in Maori-
land in April, and in the U.S.A. for
the open in May; then hey for the
U.K. and the British open! After that
there are murmurings of a canter across
the Continent and a South African jaunt
before the wandering boys return to
home and hearth.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Having won the M.L.
championship, Bobby Locke will reach
Sydney again on his way home on
November 25. The following day he
and Bill Bolger clash at Bonnie Doon
in a 36-holes match, and on November
28 he says good-bye to N.S.W. in an
18-holes march .with Davis at Ryde-
Parramatta.
* * * $
“Divot Digger”: The statistical fiend
has been busy with the N.S.W. profes-
sional golfers. Curiously enough, though
he heads the list for the season with an
average of 71.‘21 for 23 rounds, Von Nida
has won only one title event —the Lakes
open championship. Bill Bolger, who
comes next with 73.03, has played 28
rounds, while V. Richardson, with 29
rounds, one more than anyone else, aver-
ages 73.24. Cremin is in fourth place
with 20 rounds at 73.5.
Racquet and Bawl
The Queensland singles tennis title in
Brisbane was won by Bromwich, but not
until Gilchrist, the 19-year-old Sydney
boy, had run him to five sets (4-6, 6-1,
6-1, 4-6, 6-3). Gilchrist’s service and
forehand troubled the winner, but in the
end the pace was too hot for him. In
a semi-final Gilchrist had beaten Mc-
Grath, also in five sets. In the men’s
doubles McGrath and Gilchrist defeated
Bromwich and Hancock of Queensland.
Mrs. Westacott won the women’s singles
from Miss Hardcastle in two straight sets.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The N.S.W. tennis cham-
pionships, which begin at Rushcutter
Bay on Friday, have drawn an entry
of all the talent and near-talent in
the country. In addition to the title
matches there will be an inter-State en-
gagement, N.S.W. v. Victoria. Queens-
land has not entered for the inter-State
tourney, N.S.W.’s views on the subject of
financial assistance not falling in with
those of the Bananalanders.
* * * f
“Kooyong”: The Victorians sent over
Quist, Long, Hopman (capt.), Harper and
Anstee, with Brodie as emergency, to
represent the State against N. S. Wales.
Quist is said to have been hard at work
on himself trying to cut out that foot-
faulting, and there should be a good
crowd to see how he has succeeded. He
and Hopman will play in the doubles.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: “And swearing he
would never budge, Budge budgeted for
75,000 smackers before he consented.”
That is how some inglorious Byron of
the future will tell of the passing of
the great lilywhite amateur from the
ascetic cloisters of amateurism to the
Capuan delights of professional tennis.
Budge held out well before deciding to
sign Mr. O’Brien’s contract, and would
have made a great horse-coper in the
days before the—too often—three-legged
friend of man gave way to the odor-
iferous infernal combusion engine.
Tilden, Perry and Vines, who have had
their own tails cut off long ago and have
been telling Budge how nice and cool
it is, are delighted, for, with a new star
in the professional galaxy, the plunder,
which has been getting rather scanty
with the same people playing the same
old games, is sure to increase.
* * * m
“Cash Amateur”: The secession of
Budge to the professionals reopens the
old question as to where the Wimbledon
gates are to come from now that the
crack players of the moment have all
relinquished their lilywhite status. Even
if some planet does suddenly flash into
the tennis skies it is a certainty he will
soon be signed up ; indeed, it is more
than likely that Cramm will turn profes-
sional if he can manage it, in spite of
the tales about his “estates.” The way
out seems to be open competition on the
lines of golf. Even the “Times” has
come out for it.
Miscellaneous.
The young Haberfield crew won the
N.S.W. championship fours on the
Nepean. Eight crews started, and they
made a fine sight. Haberfield beat North
Shore by a length and a half, Police
being third; the time was 12min.
11 l-ssec. Haberfield was stroked by
Robinson, who goes to scale at lOst.
101 b.; the North Shore and Police strokes
are 12-stoners.
9 * * *
“Huon”: Australian women rowers in-
tend to hold their Australian champion-
ships on April 15, though a fortnight
earlier would have been a more appro-
priate date. The affair will come off on
the Derwent at Hobart, and it is hoped
that all the States will send at least one
entry. Fours will apparently be the
chief events, though eights are beginning
to be spoken of. Curiously enough we
hear nothing of women in sculling events.
Why not? Pairs are common enough,
but the sex seems to shy at single events.
* * * m
“Sprocket”: N.S.W. cyclists are con-
centrating on 10,000-metre trials for the
Olympiad. The N.S.W. Union is going
to promote several of these spins during
the season to get candidates thoroughly
used to conditions. On present form it
looks as if the veteran Duncan Gray will
once more ride for Australia. He
deserves another trip, not only for the
way he has kept his form, but because
he has steadfastly turned down tempta-
tions to embrace professionalism.
“Old Q.”: In future Queensland R.U.
players promise to be super-amateur —
not only will they not be paid for playing,
but will have to pay for the privilege.
The Union has thrown all its cash into
the fund for financing its share of the
coming tour of Britain, while the profit
from the M.L. visit was unexpectedly
poor and the club games also dropped
money. It is proposed to make a small
levy on each player to meet next season’s
expenses, on the lines of the grade
cricketers, who throw in a bob each
Saturday for the use of the wicket.


OtU'W
mi
AT TH1
TIVOLI
OBi I
"SWING Frank Neil presents LARRY
IT,” with ADLER
and New Oversea All Star Acts.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: Cent. 928-929.
New Oversea Stars.
THE CHANG
SHOW
EMILE
BOREO
PEG LEG
BATES
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: MGB3S.
fds
FREE
TO ALL MOTORISTS
SEND FOR FREE
SAMPLE OF RE-NU
LIQUID NU-METAL.
Reconditions Cars,
Trucks, Tractors,
Buses, Motor Cycles,
Standing Engines etc.
While-U-Drive. Just
Deposit thru Spark
Plug Openings on
Pistons. Saves Rebore, ends Piston Slap,
Rattles, Oil, Petrol Waste, ■ Buying New
Parts. Restores New Compression, Power,
Top Speed, Zip, etc. Guaranteed good for
10,000 miles. Harmless finest engine. Any-
one can use it. Trial sample, 6/6. We
send C.O.D. or instal anywhere. RE-NU
CO., opp. Richmond Stn., Melbourne.
’Phone J 4797. Twenty other lines. Agents
required. Free Samples.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
'The Challenge.”
Luis Trenker, Robert Douglas.
These English films are coming on.
They are beginning to be hall-marked
goods on which the patron can rely for
sound quality amidst a swirl of artificiali-
ties. Lately Sydney Mayfair had “Owd
Bob,” which was a clinker; now the
same address has this one, and it’s a
crackerjack—one of the cleanest, straight-
est, truest pictures of the year.
It depicts—taking some liberty with
historical fact, as it admits—the story
of the first scaling of the Matterhorn.
The setting, of course, gives wonderful
scope for photography, and on this score
it’s magnificent.
The scene is naturally majestic, but
this substantial part of the film is much
more than just so much glorious moun-
tain scenery lavishly depicted. It is
as vital as what goes with it. The
Matterhorn is photographed from a defi-
nite viewpoint—projected in the nature
of a challenge, and a baffling and hazar-
dous one to those who would accept.
The sheer walls of it, the tons of rocks
breaking away and hurtling down its
face, make the hope of men ever climb-
ing it seem impossible. It is the leading
character of the film, a challenging char-
acter which, even when it’s conquered,
remains the hero.
The account opens a year before the
successful climb, with the Englishman
Whymper meeting the Italian guide
Carrel half-way up the peak. They be-
come friends and undertake to meet the
following year and win the height to-
gether.
Meanwhile, Italian enthusiasts decide
that the honor must be won for Italy,
and when the summer comes along
Carrel is prevented from joining
Whymper by a trick which leaves each
feeling that the other has let him down.
Whymper then joins in with other
British climbers, making with two guides
a party of seven, who begin the ascent
from the Swiss side about simultaneously
with the Italian party’s ascent from the
Italian side.
This is represented with all the ex-
citing circumstances of a race, holding
the interest every inch of the way. It is
thrilling film.
On the way down disaster befalls the
Whymper party, four of them being
killed, an occurrence vividly portrayed.
Back in the village rumors are started
that Whymper cut the rope to save his
own life. The rope was not brought
back, and Carrel’s now going up alone
to find it enables the dramatic element
to be heightened more than ever. Even
here, where the temptation to make the
story sloppy would have won in 999
films out of a thousand, the English
filmsmiths insist on keeping it clean and
honest sentiment.
A notable part of the film is its in-
cidental depiction of village folk and
their life about the foot of the peak.
There is a trifle of amateurishness in the
acting here, but it does little harm. The
leadipg parts are exceptionally well cast.
Luis Trenker gives a most memorable
performance as Carrel; Douglas is not
far behind him ds Whymper.
“Swiss Miss.”
Laurel and Hardy.
Like the Alps in which it’s set, this
Sydney State opus is composed almost
entirely of ups and downs.
On the peaks you have Stan and Ollie
(those pedigree Angoras) in very good
fettle. On one of the highest, literally as
well as figuratively, they’re engaged in
shifting the inevitable piano over a rope-
and-battens suspension bridge strung pre-
cariously from mountainside to moun-
tainside across a ravine. An ape more
mountainous than Oliver himself also
takes a surprising hand in this bit.
Funniest of all is Laurel simulating a
snowstorm with white chook feathers to
induce a St. Bernard to let him have
the rescue brandy.
On such heights the film is a rib-
cracker. In between are a singing gent.,
Walter Woolf King, and ditto gentess,
Della Lind. They’re not bad in their
way, and Eric Blore is thrown in with
them to turn on the sort of comedy in
which he excels—pulling funny faces.
Anyway, almost any one of its high
spots makes it better entertainment than
the entire length of an average support.
“Hold That Kiss.”
Maureen O’Sullivan, Dennis O’Keefe,
Mickey Rooney.
Personal confession: scribe went along
to see this Sydney State offering fearing
the very worst.
Comrades, don’t be similarly misled.
It isn’t that sort of thing at all. It’s a
fair light comedy, tearing along at a
great bat, getting funnier as it proceeds,
Laurel and Hardy (etc) piano-shifting in an uproarious scene of “Swiss Miss,”
at Sydney State.
till it’s as laugh-at-able as the Laurel and
Hardy support.
What it’s all about is what 375,809
Hollywooden flicks have been about
—an ordinary woiking cove falling
for an ordinary woiking goil who
he thinks is sassiety, and vice versa.
That just provides a track the players can
keep to while expanding and building
on the comedy situations which occur
along it.
The players do their jobs capitally.
Maureen is an improving little lady, with
just enough comedy sense to suit the
purpose ; O’Keefe is one of the rarest
of all birds, a romantic lead with humor
in his bones; Rooney pretty well always
does a good natural job. In addition,
there are such as Edward S. Brophy, who
has injected comedy into many a gang-
ster film.
What makes the film good is the hun-
dred and one little touches —wisecracks,
odd happenings, embarrassing situations
and the like. One important feature not
to be overlooked is a dog actor new to
present scribe. A whopping St. Bernard,
he helps the fun enormously.
“Spawn of the North.”
George Raft, Henry Fonda, Dorothy Lamour.
With excellent shorts supporting, this
stretch of outdoor action makes a tip-
top bill at Sydney Prince Edward.
Its narrative concerns conflict between
two fishermen, bound strongly together
in everything except their methods of
earning a living. Fonda, a young chap
with boats and a cannery, has strong
ideas on lawful business ; Raft, wanting
capital for a sealing schooner, sets out
to raise it by teaming with fish pirates.
This leads to open slather between the
parties. -
Well cast and well acted, it's splen-
didly presented on a background of the
pioneering of Alaskan salmon-fishing.
Much of its appeal lies in settings and
scenery—scenes of a small fishing village
on the rugged coastline, fishermen haul-
ing in their nets of gleaming fish and
tearing ice from the mouth of a brood-
ing glacier to preserve their catch.
Raft gives a telling performance, as
does Akim Tamiroff, with a part right
into his hands—a Russian who is a fish
pirate and as villainous as they make
’em. Fonda’s part seems to help him
more than he helps it ; his acting seems
studied and awkward, which is just what
his role calls for. Miss Lamour carries
off pretty near to perfection the part of
a woman of many worlds.
“Having Wonderful Time.”
Douglas Fairbanks, jun., Ginger Rogers.
Pull down the earfiaps good and hard
on the opening spasms of this Sydney
Mayfair item. For a furlong cats on a
corrugated roof are a hush-hush con-
spiracy compared with it. You get used
to the noise after a time and don’t notice
it any more. After all, we get used to
our faces, and can even look in mirrors
without noticing anything wrong.
Its shindy having become bearable, it
is comedy with a love interest —familiar,
but miles better done than usual.
Ginger is at all times a pretty fair
artist; she at least has all the necessary
equipment for the part of a typist who
takes her holidays at a “wonderful-time”
resort in the hills where waiters are as
likely as not cahlege boys, and there’s
moonlight and canoes and all the rest.
For the part of such a waiter Fair-
banks also is well equipped. There’s
more sincerity and reality to their affair
than Hollywooden treatment of the sub-
ject usually manages. It has some really
human touches.
Taken as a satirical comment on
making a business of having a “won-
derful time” and on the sort of resorts
it depicts, it is very good. Even taken
merely as froth, it is at least froth with
some sparkle in it.
Other Films.
“Gateway,” at Sydney Plaza, is propa-
ganda for refugees—German tyranny
and everyone looking to Uncle Sam as
the Saviour of the World, interspersed
with such fervent phrases as “While the
Stahtoo of Liber-r-rty still stands there’s
hope for us all.” Interest in its depiction
of Uncle Sam’s methods of sorting out
immigrants. A thread of a yarn holding
it together deals with a little bit of Irish
who, in a spot of pother on board ship,
damages her reputation and chances of
landing. Of course, hahnest Dahn
Ameche is there to see the little lady.
It would amount to very little without
its array of caricatures by an excellent
supporting cast, including Gregory Rat-
off, a pseudo Russian count; E. E. Clive,
ship’s steward; Raymond Walburn, a
portly and amorous mayor from back o
beyond ; Gilbert Roland, the villain of
the piece; John Carradine, leading a
bunch of rioters; Harry Carey, boss of
Ellis Island; Miss Binnie Barnes, her
usual charming and sophisticated self.
* * * *
“Hard to Get,” at Sydney Plaza, has
Dick Powell as a garage attendant with
architectural ambitions ; Olivia de Havil-
land as millionaire’s daughter who sets
out to administer punishment because he
refused to give a few gallons of petrol
on tick. Mr. Powell doesn’t sing very
much and Charles Winninger hurries the
piece along with good-natured blustering.
* * * *
" The Missing Guest,” at Sydney Capi-
tol, has Paul Kelly as a news-sleuth sleuth-
ing spooks all over a haunted mansion.
There are sundry spectres breathing on
the windows, much mysterious music, a
moider or two and other unexplained
phenomena. Clinch.
♦ * * *
“Romance of the Limberlost,” at Sydney
Capitol, has the doubtful merit of adher-
ing faithfully to the simplicity and sac-
charine sentiment of the novel Girl of
the Limberlost. Those who like either
should like both. Present commentator
threw in the towel when poor persecuted
cheild and crool but repentant aunt
sobbed at each other across the court-
room.
* * * *
“Not Wanted on Voyage,” at Sydney
Embassy, is another Transatlantic jool
thievery and semi-comic sleuthery opus,
with detectives and crooks outwitting
each other with one dud and one genuine
necklace. Some mild excitement here
and there, a good deal of “Who’sgotit?”
and a clinch.
* * * *
“Who Goes Next?” at Sydney Em-
bassy, had been heralded by such blurb as
“What actually happens in Germany’s
dreaded concentration camps,” “Now it
can be told. Censorship releases the
amazing, true, etc.,” “So-and-so hurls to
the screen this timely and astounding
drama.... sensational escape from con-
centration camp during the most fateful
crisis in European history.” All of which
is piffle. The film deals with some mild
derring-do perpetrated by half a dozen
British officers in a German prison
camp during the Great War. Even the
title is drawn merely from a question
asked when they are deciding on their
order of escape. As for life in the prison
camp, if various films presented from
time to time are in any way authentic,
life in one of Uncle Sam’s gaols would
be a much more unpleasant business.
* * * *
“Rich Man, Poor Girl,” at Sydney
Liberty, is fired out of a double-barrel —
if you don’t think much of the problem
and the conclusions drawn from it, you’ll
at least enjoy the comedy. Rich man falls
in love with poor girl sec., who has a
family background which she insists he
must accept as fully as he accepts her.
That background includes cousin Henry,
who has a bug about the mistreatment of
the great middle-class. As a comedy
of behavior, showing up the artificial
sentiments of an ordinary lot of people
trying to maintain bogus dignity in pref-
erence to being contaminated by contact
with oof, it makes quite bright entertain-
ment.
* * * *
“Youth Takes a Fling,” going the
rounds, has Joel McCrea in the role
of a boring and impossible individual
with the maximum of pig-headedness and
minimum of intelligence and Andrea
Leeds as a lurv-sick flapper pinning her
faith on destinies as foretold by coinci-
dence and slot machines. A goil who
toils in a dress-shop, she dreams of tall,
handsome stranger and finds him in the
shape of a truckdriver with nautical
aspirations. He can’t see the lass is pitch-
ing for him, but she persists, and the time
taken to expound that theme and bring it
to a satisfactorily sentimental conclusion
is exactly that much too long.
Phil. Concerts.
Highlight of Sydney Philharmonic
Society’s concert at the Town Hall on


'ffifj&uCletCn
Limerick Competitions
EIGHTH COMPETITION
£5O Prizes
The advertisement of the Eighth
Bulletin” Limerick Competition
appears in this issue on Page 41
(Radio Page).
Information concerning the
Seventh and Ninth Competitions is
included.
X 93
ALL ABOARD/
4i
s
K<
\\
\
n
x
» A.
\*
V'
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY LIMITED
INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
Saturday night was a rousing perform-
ance of Elgar’s “Caractacus,” a work
exhibiting to the full the vigor and origi-
nality which marked all of Elgar’s choral
excursions. Choir, under Curt Prerauer,
sang with intelligence and spirit, and
orchestral support was good. Walter
Kingsley, who sang the roles of Arch-
priest and Emperor Claudius, was the
only soloist with a voice big enough to
fit the music.
Interesting as an essay in dignified
choral singing was a performance of a
Mass by Orlando di Lazso, but the gen-
eral effect was rather dull and sombre.
Sydney de Vries sang four Elizabethan
songs arranged by Peter Warlock. The
Elizabethans would have been astonished
to hear such trifles presented with such
pomp and circumstance.
* * * *
Bach’s Mass in B Minor occupied
Melbourne Symphony Orchestra and 200
men and women of the Philharmonic
Society, under Sir Granville Bantock’s
baton, at the Town Hall. The conduct-
ing of the stocky white-bearded English
composer-conductor was as unpretentious
as the morning suit he wore, but there
was no lack of dynamics in the perform-
ance of the Mass. In other hands the
“Kyrie Eleison,” “Sanctus” and
“Hosanna in Excelsis” might have seemed
interminable reiteration, but in his hands
they had as much interest as the lovely
“Et Incarnatus Est,” in which the Phil-
harmonics excelled themselves.
Ray Trewern displayed his voice ad-
mirably in the tenor solos. Bass New-
stead Rush introduced a disconcerting
whistle into his first appearance in the
“Quoniam Tu Solus Sanctus,” but mas-
tered it in the “Et in Spiritum Sanctum.”
possibly because there were fewer s’s in
the Latin phrases. Vera Hickenbotham
and Mavis Svenson were in admirable
agreement in their dubts.
Melbourne Chekhov.
Chekhov’s “The Cherry Orchard” had
a magnificent performance at Melb.
Comedy last week at the hands of Doha
Ribush and his Australian cast.
Of the original production in Moscow
in 1903 Chekhov remarked that the
players might become a little less bril-
liant after a month or so. Nobody was
“brilliant” in the Ribush production;
nearly all fitted sd quietly into the
gradual tempo of the play that nothing
seemed to stand between the audience
and the poignant theme.
Robert Bennet, Wilfred Spargo, Nina
Littlewood, Gwen Vellenoweth and
Philip Johnson did fine work, but the
outstanding achievement was that of Eric
Booth, who did not seem to be acting
but feeling the situation.
Artbursts.
Melbourne
In his latest show at Sedon’s Gal-
leries, Septimus Power has practically
deserted his old friend the geegee.
Moreover, the three or four examples
of the glossy quadruped are in a manner
which he has deserted in other pictures
for a more impressionistic rendering of
light and shade. “Conversation Piece,
Pago,” is a study of natives sitting by
the foreshore which suggests a loosen-
ing up of the painter’s approach to
nature. “Lei Seller, Honolulu,” is
another. “Street Scene, Hollywood,” has
the same qualities of returning vigor.
Adrian Lawlor’s show of “abstract”
art at the Riddell galleries, Melbourne,
is like his recent book, Arquebus. It
startles ; but whether it satisfies depends
on whether the observer accepts Mr.
Lawlor’s conception of abstract art.
Sydney
The Industrial Arts Society, which
concerns itself with linking up the fine
arts and the industrial ditto, has a show
in the Education Department’s galleries.
In the purely pictorial section some
vigorous heads by Frances D. Ellis, a
bright water-color by Dorothy Ashton,
sound pictures by S. Woodward-Smith
and A. Hedley Parsons, and an excellent
self-portrait in water-color by Mrs. M.
von Oppen, the society’s new president,
take the eye. There are some clever
models in cardboard of designs for the
society’s new rooms, and in the crafts
section some magnificent embroidery
and some effective textile designs. A
completely furnished lounge, designed
by M. Best, is a feature.
Bim Hilder, son of J.J., and his wife,
who signs her pictures Roma Hop-
kinson, combine in an exhibition at
Rubery Bennett’s galleries. Bim, a
water-colorist and etcher, shows some
pictures in his father’s manner, notably
“Morning After Rain,” “River Bank”
and “Poplars”; some that are remi-
niscent of Blamire Young—“ Camp
Fire” and “Twilight,” for example—and
just a few (“New Growth” is one of
them) that have individuality. Three
color-etchings are all pleasing.
Mrs. Hilder’s contributions in oils
are competent work, but a little harsh
and obvious in style. “St. Philip's” is
the best of four etchings of city
churches.
Kenneth Macqueen, whose latest
harvest of water-colors, mostly derived
from Hayman Island and Hook Island,
decorates the walls of the Grosvenor
Galleries, has been working a field
which does not lend itself to those
rhythmic patterns in which he excels.
His new work is best when it is simplest
and least stylised, as in “Whitsunday
Passage, Evening,” and “Evening, Hay-
man Island,” but neither composition
suggests evening. “Mingimarney Valley,”
in the older and more vigorous
Macqueen style, is pleasing.
Adelaide Amateurs.
Adelaide is having one of its annual
charity fortnights of comic opera, and
plays for safety with the evergreen “Maid
of the Mountains.”
Margaret Pirie has the voice for the
Gladys Moncrieff part, Gunnell and
Peake (and co.) are picturesque brigands,
while Dawe (hard-working) and Duncan
(natural) are born comedians.
Norman Sellick conducts a large
orchestra, manager Rendall has allowed
Alan Chapman as producer to bring
several tons of rehl sand into the Royal
for the beach scene, and the various
charities which are to profit see that the
house is crowded,
Australian Songs.
A recent outbreak of song-writing
competitions conducted by broadcasting
stations is responsible for three of four
Australian-made songs submitted for
review by Allans, of Melbourne.
First in rank is “Mopoke,” music by
Alfred Hill, words by Louis Lavater, a
very clever and graceful treatment of the
notes of the mopoke’s call. “The Red
Road,” by Edward Black, has a smooth
lilt, and “The Drover,” by Tyne Ely,
winds up with a vigorous march theme.
In a different category, and not a com-
petitive product, is “Departure,” a setting
by Reginald Bevan, of Adelaide, of an
excerpt from Walt Whitman’s “Leaves
of Grass.” The music suits the senti-
ment, which is melancholy, but is mclodi-
cally rather pedestrian.


BUSINESS COLLEGE
FOR SALE in New Zealand City of 100,000
population, Business College which has been
established for over seven years. Sickness in
the Principal’s family is the sole reason for
selling. The purchase is £650, which, if suit-
able security is offered, may be spread over
a period.
Those genuinely interested in this successful
Business College may obtain further informa-
tion by communicating with
“EDUCATION,”
Care W. B. FITCHETT, LTD.,
Advertising Agents,
Box 617, Wellington, N.Z.
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO ERIC JOHN SMITH formerly of 3
Tenth Street Port Pirie in the State of
South Australia but now of parts unknown
Labourer.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MYRA
ISABEL SMITH has instituted proceedings for
a divorce on the ground of desertion during
three years and upwards UNLESS you enter
an appearance in the office of the Prothonotary
of the Supreme Court at Melbourne within
twenty-one days from the date of this advertise-
ment the case may proceed in your absence
and vou may be ordered to pay the costs
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the
sealed copy Petition and copy Citation m this
suit may be inspected at the office of the
Peti ,loner's »'- ros4l)OVßi
440 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
FLUSH ACID
POISON OUT
OF KIDNEYS
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter,
the 15 miles of kidney tubes and Alters be-
come clogged with poisonous waste and the
danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition, brought about by poor
kidney function, is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg
pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters. If these tubes or Alters be-
come clogged with poisons, it may lay you up
for many months. Don’t run any risk. Make
sure your kidneys empty 3 pints a day.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to Aush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get'DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The death of Earl Beauchamp in New
York has deprived Australia of a great
friend and consistent advertiser. The
Earl was on his way to pay this country
still another visit, and he was in the
U.S.A. for a big reunion of the Ameri-
can branch of the Lygon (they spell it
Ligon) family. These Ligons are the
descendants of those who slipped off to
America in the reign of Charles I. Lord
Beauchamp, daughter Lady Dorothy
Lygon and secretary David Smyth were
due to arrive in Sydney about the end
of this month. Instead he will lie buried
near Madresfield Court, the Beauchamp
home at Malvern, in Worcestershire.
The funeral will leave Madresfield on
November 25, the Earl’s remains having
been conveyed from New York in the
Queen Mary.
Australia knew Lord Beauchamp first
as its youngest, most handsome State
Governor. It last saw him a handsome
man in the early sixties. His death has
caused deep grief among a circle of inti-
mate friends, whose one consolation is
David Smyth’s cable saying that the end
was peaceful. This Letter would like to
add a tribute to an amusing host, a
thoughtful friend.
Minister for Health FitzSimons opened
Red Cross House on Saturday, and amid
cheers “broke” the flag, a red cross on a
snowy background, that now waves over
the home of all Red Cross activities.
Jamieson-street seethed with excitement;
hundreds gathered in the doorways oppo-
site No. 27 ; 200 V.A.Ds. in their white
uniforms, many wearing the badge of 20
years’ and over service, were lined up in
the middle of the road.
Almost everyone who crowded into the
rooms for tea after the speeches was a
past or present maker of Red Cross his-
tory. Noticed the Owen lady, knight
Joseph Cook and his lady, D. J. Mackay
Sim, the D. K. Otton couple and Miss
Rose Piper, of the After Care. Mrs. Z.
Aronson and Mrs. R. Sly, two of the
very earliest workers under the Red Cross
banner, were there ; also Miss da Silva
Waugh, Miss N. Consett Stephen and
Mrs. Macarthur Onslow, co-directors of
the Junior Red Cross, Ruby Storey, Mrs.
Cecil Hordern and Mrs. A. J. White.
The building has dignity. From the
ground to the first floor it presents a
creamy face to the public. The rest is
carried out in red brick. The name and
cross stand out in relief. There is plenty
of light, as three sides of the building
are almost entirely composed of windows.
It has four floors, each devoted to a
phase of the society’s activities.
Collection Day is the Bush Book
Club’s busiest day in the year. Last
week there were the same comings and
goings. Beulah Bolton kept her head
and‘'said the right thing to everybody.
Energetic assistants took your name and
the parcels of books you brought, put
them in their appointed place, then ever
so gently but very firmly you were urged
towards the room next door. Maybe
you wandered into the Victoria League
rooms and saw the Japanese purple iris
that adorned the table at which Lady
Gowrie would drink a cup of tea after
she had said her piece at the opening.
From her own garden Barbara Knox
(she’s the treasurer) brought the presen-
tation spray of white gardenias. Just
before the actual business of opening, if
you were lucky, you looked out of the
window and saw on the opposite side
the Union Club’s garden and the jacar-
anda-tree in full bloom rising high and
with a friendly inclination towards the
neighboring grey building.
Lady Gowrie brought a large parcel
of books, also a cheque. Her frock was
of blue-and-white sheer. Hatpins with
knobs as large as golf balls (or nearly)
pierced the crown of the King lady’s
wide, flat-brimmed white sailor hat. After
making an appeal for more and still
more books for the people outback
whose need of them is so great, Lady
Gowrie quoted from a letter received
by the club in which a man of 73 said
that never since he had been a small
child had he received a present until
he got a parcel from the Bush Book
Club!
Leading on to one of the pathways
that dissect that hoary and grim settle-
ment of stone buildings that was once
Darlinghurst Gaol, and is now the East
Sydney Technical College, is a door-
way marked “School of Design." Pass-
ing through it and going up the iron
stairs you come to the rooms where
Phyllis Shillito is training students to
make designs for the living. A stone’s-
throw away are the cells whose inmates
in the old days could visualise only the
designs for death —the gallows tree.
However, no gloomy thoughts brood in
the minds of the tribe of youngsters who
dash about the pathways intent on art
or building or carpentry or the mani-
fold manifestations of wool.
The diploma students, those who are
finishing their five years’ art course, are
just on the eve of an exhibition of their
work. The studios are already crowded
with finished pieces. Strange to see how
the twelve (eleven girls and one boy)
handle a given subject. For instance,
given an Egyptian subject, one student
has turned out something that might be
a bit of “Aida,” another has taken Ruth
and Boaz, another Moses in the bul-
rushes. Pattern rather than naturalistic
reproduction stimulates the design, and
the whole of the work is highly decora-
tive. The five years’ course includes
pottery, painting in all its media, weav-
ing, embroidery, rug-making, jewellery,
wood- and plaster-carving. A panel on
which gulls cleave the air on outstretched
wings and another of the three Marys at
the foot of the Cross are notable exhibits.
Some of the still-life paintings are doubly
interesting because the curtains, rugs and
vases and so on are the work of the
student who has painted them.
An abo. panel is a vivid bit of work,
and its creator is one of three students
who have secured good appointments.
One goes to C. of E. Girls’ Grammar
at Cottesloe (W.A.), another to C. of E.
Girls’ Grammar at Moss Vale, and the
third will take up her classes at Abbots-
leigh, Wahroonga. This is a photograph
of Phyllis Shillito, director of the School
of Design. , .
About 120 friends of the Mater Miseri-
cordice Hospital played bridge at the
home of Mrs. H. K. Prior one afternoon
last week. Tables were everywhere, in
the billiard-room, the lounge and the
sun-room. Tea was to have been served
under the trees at the side of the house,
but the threatened showers and the
southerly that blew up made this impos-
sible. At the last minute a marquee was
erected adjoining the garage. In the tea-
drinking interval Mosman’s Mayor,
Alderman Hicks, announced the winners
of the various prizes, among which was
a dinner basket. In it were, among other
things, a chicken all ready for the oven,
potatoes and peas (shelled). Everything
was in colored transparent wrappers,
even to the carrots and onions
which, tied up in bunches, adorned the
handle. Mrs. Prior, who received her
guests in a black-and-white sheer frock,
was assisted by her sisters Greta and
Gertie Lawler.
Orange was a riot last week. There
was in progress a Local Government con-
ference. Minister for Local Government
Spooner and his wife were staying at
Duntryleague. Local importants have
been Dr. Colvin and the Mayor, Dr.
Matthews. Mrs. Fowler, Mayor of New-
town, and Tom Mutch, M.L.A., are
among the welter of delegates who come
from everywhere —Mudgee, Yass, Manly
and the Northern Rivers. The first day
in the hotel entrance grasshoppers
loomed large in the conversation —a giant
army of them around Wellington, Dubbo,
Gilgandra, and so on. Millions of them.
Cars just become a mess as they pass by.
The big work that will eventuate trom
the conference is a £500,000 water
scheme for the Central Tablelands.
Socially, the thing has gone big, and
hotels have been seething with cheery
noise, bustle and voices talking through
the night. The opening junket was a recep-
tion in the Strand Palais. Then every-
body swallowed jorums of tea at the
Royal Hotel. There were morning teas
and afternoon teas and a Rotary dinner,
and the C.W.A. commandeered the lovely
Cook Park for a party. But just ahead
of schedule a thunderstorm broke, so
crockery and cakes were shipped to the
Memorial Hall, and Mrs. Sam Whitmee
rushed from one end of Orange to the
other telling people of the change of
plans. Paul Revere’s Ride had nothing
on her. Her steed, however, rated 10
h.p. Noticed Dr. Susie Buckingham at
the party. She’s the owner of the town s
only Italian-looking house. A Citizens
Ball lured all the visitors. A good time,
apparently, was had by all, for at four
o’clock in the morning a male choir of
homecomers could be heard pouring out
“Mother Machree.’’
The setting for the “Night in Hono-
lulu” Ball has been inspired by the inner
courtyard of the Royal Hawaiian Hotel.
The red calla-lilies with their cool green
leaves, the shadow of palm-tree and
bamboo-tree on cane blinds, and the
bluey-green furnishings have given the
foyer of the Trocadero an unusual exotic
atmosphere. In the ballroom at the back
of the revolving stage with its two
orchestras, and dominating the whole of
the room, is a picture of Diamond Head
against a background of dazzling blue
sky, green grass and slender palms. Of
course, there will be island music and
hula girls, leis and streamers, and some-
body has just got to win the trip to
Honolulu. Everyone will go home with
the haunting strains of “Aloha” ringing
in their ears.
Above is a Dorothy Welding photo-
graph of Mrs. C. P. Sellards, the
enthusiastic secretary of the “Night
in Honolulu” Ball, which has been organ-
ised by Americans in Sydney. It will
take place on Thursday, and will com-
memorate Thanksgiving Day. The pro-
ceeds will be divided between the Golden
Fleece Kindergarten, the Far West
Children’s Health scheme and the Blind
Institution at Darlington.
Don’t forget that on Saturday night
the N.S.W. Junior Orchestra and Choir
(250 members) will give a popular
orchestral and choral concert at the
Town Hall. Entire proceeds go to the
Sydney Industrial Blind Institution.
If you long to meet the principals of
the Russian Ballet, ring up the Australia
or the British Drama League for par-
ticulars of the party which the league is
giving on Saturday night after the per-
formance. The party is at the Australia
and starts at 10.30 p.m.
Thirteen’s a lucky number for some
people. Look at Bim Hilder and Roma
Hopkinson (she’s Mrs. Bim). Thirteen
pictures were sold on the first day of
their show. Friends and admirers of
Bim’s father are keenly interested in the
young man’s work. They had been
wandering up and down the stairs to
Rubery Bennett’s gallery during all the
hanging process —and before. Noticed
Howard Hinton and George Batting
coming out one day (the former, one of
the first buyers, chose an etching of the
Bridge).
On Wednesday, Mrs. Bim with her
happy smile and her cordial manner was
there. Her coat was gay with stripes,
her frock, was the shade of her “Falling
Leaves.” Roma’s contributions to the
show are the oils, Bim’s the water-colors.
But both are responsible for colored
etchings—which, by the way, are coming
in for a lot of attention. Tom Garrett
was an earlycomer; E. B. Kingsnorth
was another. Bim’s mother, his brother
Bret, and Roma’s mother and father
stood by during the congratulatory
period. Neighbor Sheila Farquharson
(she lives next door to the Hilders at
Castlecrag), her outsize panama hat tied
under the chin, came to cheer the artists
along. She bought Roma’s 4 Castlecrag.
Mrs. Howard Barron was cool-looking in
her white frock with its gaudy Mexican
striped belt, and a white hat.
Knight George Julius’s lady opened the
show, very smart in black and white
P. A. Filds introduced her, A. R. Hop-
kinson, Roma’s father, thanked her and
Roma presented her with a large sheaf
of gladioli.
After dinner at the Lyceum Club on
Thursday, at which she had been the
guest of honor, Marie Bremner sang
French, German and old English songs
to a small but appreciative audience.
Her final group was three of the abo.
songs arranged by Dr. Lethbridge. Her
frock of black chiffon was very long and
very full, but was cut on straight lines,
the neck just high enough for a Peter
Pan collar of white lace. With it she
wore a flame-colored sash, and she
pinned on its shoulder the spray of white
gardenias with which Mrs. A. G.
Thomas, the president, had presented her
on arrival. Esther Kahn played the
accompaniments, and Miss Nellie Kay
voiced the vote of thanks (she leaves
this week for a 12 months’ holiday tour
of America). Mrs. Thomas’s frock was
of floral chiffon in black-and-red tonings.
Two others in floral chiffons were Mrs.
Francis, the hon. sec., and Mrs. Sterling
Levis. With a black skirt bordered in
white lace Mrs. Muscio wore a bodice
of white shirred chiffon. A visitor of
note was Margaret Ratcliffe, of the
Housing Improvement Board.
Liked the arrangement of the plat-
form at the Industrial Arts Exhibition —
“A Lounge of a Home at Palm Beach,”
designed by M. Best and lent by Mrs.
K. F. Coles. The color scheme was blue
and red in cushions and upholstery,
against creamy wall.s. A fat, blue fish
(outline only) formed the face of the
clock above the fireplace; the hand was
a long, slim red fish. Wall lights shone
from behind shell-shaped fittings. Liked,
too, the wooden bowl with its carved
“An apple a day keeps the doctor away”
in relief round the rim. Many of the
exhibitors who showed at the Arts and
Crafts showed again here. All evening
groups were gathered around the weav-
ing exhibits. The scale models of the
ideal clubrooms for the society, too,
attracted attention.
Everyone liked Professor Wilkinson’s
opening speech; they liked, too, his
suggestion that a beauty-loving public
should label some of the goods in shops
“Don’t buy,” but owned up they
wouldn’t dare do so. Acting president
Mary E. Soady was slim in a pale gold
lace frock. With it she wore a beaten
silver scarf. Mrs. Percy Paget was in
sky-blue satin, Mrs. H. von Oppen’s
crepes were patterned in black and white,
and Mrs. Faith Box, another of the
night’s importants, pinned cream roses
on the shoulder of her black chiffons.


■O.
1%.
4
V,
- »•
+
■*
%
■ •■* •■.
Suite: Rd. No. 11589, 10927.
Ped. Busin: ltd. No. 10926.
The most important
room in the house ...
Gone are the days when the bathroom was merely an adjunct
to the home; to-day it is planned for utmost convenience and
comfort, and Fowler sanitary earthenware contributes liberally
towards that objective.
The bathroom suggestion (illustrated) features Fowler Ware
Killara toilet suite, “Bellevue” pedestal basin, Fowler Ware
wall recess fittings— sponge and soap holder, toothbrush holder,
paper-reel holder, Gargoyle faucets, also Fowler floor and
wall tiles.
Modern designs, uniform quality and finish plus functional
perfection unhold the widespread high reputation of Fowler
sanitary earthenware, which is manufactured in colours as well
as white.
Leading hardware and builders' suppliers throughout the
Commonwealth stock Fowler Ware. We will be pleased to
supply the name of your nearest supplier.
Products of the
FOWLER POTTERIES
BATHROOM AND KITCHEN
SANITARY EARTHENWARE
HOSPITAL AND GENERAL
ENAMELLED FIRECLAY WARE
FLOOR AND WALL TILES
TERRA COTTA WARE
MANUFACTURED BY
R. FOWLER LIMITED
Manufacturers of Ceramics for over a century.
Administrative Offices, Showrooms and Potteries:
FITZROY STREET, MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
Thomastown, Victoria. Brisbane, Queensland.
Products of the
FOWLER POTTERIES
SALT GLAZED STONEWARE
INSULATORS
HOUSEHOLD CROCKERY AND
HOTELWARE
BRISTOLWARE
CHEMICAL WARE
Interstate Agenti
J. M. SMITH PTY., LTD.,
Rockhampton, Q’land.
MADDEN & JOHNSTON,
Townsville, Q’land.
BURFITT, SELTH & CO., LTD..
French Street, Adelaide.
A. BOND BARKER & CO.,
William Street, Perth.
W. H. HUTHNANCE & CO.,
Grey Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Stop That Tap Dripping!
Registered Number 9425.
TAP WASHER
PERFECT NON-DRIP—EASY TO FIT-
LONG LIFE !
Slightest pressure cuts off water supply.
£in. and fin., THREE for 6d.
lin., TWO for 6d.
If unobtainable locally, three Washers on a card
giving full instructions will be mailed on receipt
of six penny stamps. State size of Tap. £in. or
fin., Three for 6d. lin., Two for 6d.
Holdtite, G.P.O. Box 1389 J, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
/
Amsvrp 'rrfQn/
ram
\ r
\
tr ;
* 4
VNIWD
Tea Sets
Dinner Sets
After-dinner
Coffee Sets
with
Electric Table
Lamps to Match
for xms eiv?E smeller
Send 3d. in stamps to cover cost of postage and packing
for beautifully colored catalogue and name of nearest
distributor.
T. W. HEATH PTY., LTD., G.P.O. Box 1389 J, Sydney,
New South Wales.
tferiHUllodii
Non-poisonouT]
DURALASTIC
ZINC PAINT,
18/- Gallon
Twenty-six
beautiful
shades
“WHITE MILL”
MILL WHITE WATER PAINT
41b.
2/3
71b.
3/9
141b.'
6/6
281 b.
12/-
561 b.
21/-
HARBUTT PAINT PTY. LTD.
Alexandria, N.S.W.
Brisbane Agents : Crouch, Connah & Gordon Pty.,
Ltd.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1848 of 1938.
BETWEEN SOPHIA CATHERINE FRED-
ERICK Petitioner.
And EARL JOSEPH FREDERICK Re-
spondent.
TO EARL JOSEPH FREDERICK late of
Reynolds Street Cremorne.
TAKE NOTICE that the said SOPHIA
CATHERINE FREDERICK has commenced
a suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of your desertion for three years
without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you arc required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the ofiice of
this Honorable Court on or before the Tenth
day of February next and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of November,
one thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
CRICHTON-SMITH AND INNES KAY,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 30 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 501 of 1938.
BETWEEN ELLA MAY CATTERALL Peti-
tioner
And HERBERT WILSON CATTERALL
Respondent.
TO HERBERT WILSON CATTERALL
formerly of Brisbane in the State of
Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELLA MAY
CATTERALL has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Fifteenth
day of February One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-nine and in the event 9f your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be .heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of November,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
W. lAN SHORT, Solicitor for Petitioner, 26
O’Connell Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO SARAH MARGARET CHOY formerly
of Main Street Murwillumbah in the State
of New South Wales but whose present
whereabouts aie unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane in the State of
Queensland by Writ of Summons numbered 510
of 1938 by WILLIE CHOY your husband in
which he claims a dissolution of his marriage with
you and by his petition filed herein he alleges
that since the month of October One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-two you without cause
have deserted him and have continuously so
deserted him for five years and upwards AND
IT HAS BEEN ORDERED that service of the
said petition and said writ on you be effected
by filing in the Registry of the said Court and
sticking up on the notice board in the said
Registry an office copy of the said petition and
a copy of the said writ and by the insertion of
this notice once each in the “Courier-Mail” a
newspaper published at Brisbane aforesaid and
the “Tweed Daily” and the Sydney “Bulletin _
newspapers published at Murwillumbah and
Sydney respectively in the State of New South
Wales and by posting by prepaid registered letter
a cody of this notice addressed to the de-
fendant’s brother SYDNEY BRITTON of Coor-
paroo Brisbane aforesaid. IF YOU DESIRE
TO DEFEND this action YOU MUST within
SIXTY DAYS from the date of the last act
done as aforesaid enter an appearance at the
said Registry and in default of such appearance
judgment may be entered against you.
DATED this Fifteenth day of November,
(1.5.) J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy Registrar.
STEPHENS & TOZER, Solicitors, 236
George Street, Brisbane.
Melbourne
Chatter
Miss Mary Neilson, principal of
P.L.C., is the first woman to hold this
position, and for the first time in the his-
tory of the school there are now women
on the College Council. The emancipa-
tion of women in regard to P.L.C. was a
long time in coming, and now that it is
here another important change is fast on
its heels. Heathersett, a 39-acre estate
at Burwood, has been purchased, and the
school will eventually be moved thither
from its three-acre property in East Mel-
bourne. Plans are already afloat tor
transferring the Prep. School for the first
term of 1939. The sale took effect just
before P.L.C. Old Collegians’ annual
garden party, plans for which were hur-
riedly changed so that it was held at
Heathersett, lent for the afternoon by the
vendors, Mr. and Mrs. Percy Lemon, who
are still living in the spacious old home.
While making her speech at the party
Miss Essie Mollison quoted a genteel old
land agent who placated a querulous
client with “I will not undulate you with
visitors.” No such promises were made
to the Percy Lemon couple, who were
“undulated” but undisturbed by 600 Old
Collegians on Saturday. There were
speeches on the lawn, followed by tea
(handed around by senior students look-
ing cool in their striped print hot-weather
uniforms), inspections of the house and
garden with its majestic old trees, with
roses to be had for the snipping, oranges
for the shaking of the branches and beds
of budding lavender just in time for
Christmas sachets. The curious who
penetrated beyond the orchard discovered
coops for many hundred chickens.
Everybody was delighted about the
day, a perfect brew, if on the warm side,
for an out-of-doors party. Among
speechmakers were Miss Neilson, P.L.C.
Old Collegians president Mrs. Lex Ren-
toul and Professor Oxer, who is the
father of several Old Collegians. The
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. A. W. Coles, was
present in two capacities, an official guest
and a past pupil of P.L.C. A committee
member, Miss Anne Fortune, felt it was
a day worthy of her name ; she had the
pleasant surprise of being offered a £5O
cheque from an “old girl” for the Old
Collegians’ part of the college-transfer
appeal. An interesting spot of news an-
nounced during the afternoon was that
the garden at Heathersett was designed
by Melbourne’s first woman landscape
gardener, Miss Ina Higgins, who herself
was an Old Collegian.
The Overseas League held a successful
party at Scott’s last week, when far more
people turned up than were expected.
Not that that made any difficulty over
tea or chairs: both were procured with-
out trouble. Guest-speaker Mrs. A. E.
V. Richardson was introduced by Mrs.
W. A. Sanderson in a two-blues frock
and hat of shady proportions, and re-
ceived words of thanks from Mrs. J. S.
Taylor and Mrs. W. Angliss. ■ Among
hostesses who helped with the organising
were Mrs. J. C. Farrin Webb, Miss S. J.
Caygill, Mrs. W. S. Plowman and Miss
Bouchaud. Among others present were
Mrs. J. W. Springthorpe, Mrs. J. C.
Cuming, a cyclamen aperitif toning up
her navy-blue hat, and Mrs. Tom White,
prepared for the afternoon’s sudden
jump in temperature, in a frock of tea-
rose linen. Mrs. Jack Goulding’s figured
frock ran to riotous living among flowers
and gay colors. Thelma Watt dressed up
her big white saucer sailor in a mist of
green veiling, and a wide, two-colored
sash picked up the broken-stripes design
in her white crepe dress. Thelma, with
May Angliss, Betty Langham, Muriel Watt
and some others of their generation, hopes
in the not-too-far-distant future to form
a younger group of the Overseas League.
Secretary of Overseas League Aimee
Bouchaud is a lively member of the com-
mittee. She’s a past pupil of P.L.C., and
has persuaded the P.L.C. Old Collegians’
Dramatic Society to present a short play
evening as an Overseas League enter-
tainment on November 29. For histri-
onics, Old Scotch has now amalgamated
its man-power with P.L.C. Miss
Bouchaud will herself produce two of the
plays, and as she’s stage manager and
general organiser she has some work
ahead regarding curtains and stage in
the lounge at Scott’s, where the function
will take place.
Last week the University Union House
looked upon bridge in a large way when
the Town and Gown Guild, which has
pledged itself to help the Union, made
its initial effort for that end in the form
of an afternoon and evening bridge party.
Card wits were sharpened in the upstairs
buffet dining-room, a cheerful room with
its vast amount of space, high ceilings,
excellent lighting and occasional sun-
beams streaming through the windows
during the afternoon. The overflow felt
itself exclusive in the Women’s Common
Room. An out-of-the-ordinary feature of
both parties was the lack of noise, the
usual roar being throttled down to a per-
sistent and unvarying buzz.
Vice-president of the Guild, Mrs. Leif
Due, was president of the bridge-party
committee. Guild president Mrs. J. D. G.
Medley offered a vote of thanks to
organisers and combatants. The latter
had chances to win a water-color paint-
ing and a wallet presented by Mrs. H. C.
Colville.
In the afternoon stallholders and assis-
tants sallied forth with tea-trays so that
play was not interrupted. In the evening
everybody drifted up to the buffet for
supper. Standing, according to the men
present, had its points in the matter of
stretching the legs. Mrs. Philip Hudson
and Mrs. Arnold Seitz arranged gener-
ous supplies of flowers. Mrs. Lindsay
Biggins, also on the decoration com-
mittee, was prevented by illness trom
going to the party, but she did all her
spadework well in advance, such as
securing promises of flowers from the
G. R. Nicholas gardens, arranging to
borrow baskets (to hold and hide the
ever-useful jam-jars) and asking her
mother, Mrs. E. Turner, to come along
in her place.
Melbourne’s new Lady Mayoress, Mrs,
A W. Coles, is sure to be popular in
her new position. She is embarking upon
her official duties with much enthusiasm
and good humor. ■ Among her “good
works” there’s a particularly soft spot
in her heart for children’s welfare. She s
the vice-president of the Lady North-
cote Free Kindergarten, and goes regu-
larly to Montague for committee meet-
ings and to keep up her acquaintance
with the small folk, who welcome their
friends and visitors with a good-morning
song and an invitation to join in their
games. Mrs. Coles loves her garden,
and would, if she had more time, like
to go further with it than picking and
arranging its flowers. She plays contract
bridge, tennis and golf, and is always a
starter with her husband and six children
for swimming races during the family’s
summer holidays at Flinders. There are
three boys, the eldest 18, the youngest
seven. The three girls are at school at
St. Catherine’s. Mrs. Coles’s photograph
from Spencer Shier.
Mental hospital auxiliaries are fortu-
nate in having such big-hearted people
on their committees as Mrs. M. G. F.
Purdy and Mrs. C. Farran-Ridge. Mrs.
Purdy, who is president, has joie-de-vivre
and a sense of humor, Mrs. Farran-
Ridge is a parcel of energy in inverse
ratio to her size. Then there are other
women of character like Mrs. W. Mac-
karney, of Kew, who has given Kew Hos-
pital patients a new interest through
organised singing, and who always has
a cheery word for every occasion, even
when on the door at the Lower Town
Hall last week for the Mental Hospitals
handicraft exhibition. Occupational
therapy, which is of great value to the
patients, is taught by members of the
staff who are trained nursing sisters and
who are artistically and temperamentally
suited to such specialised work.
Miss S. Marchant, who teaches fur-
niture making to the men of Mont Park,
is considered to be “one in a million.”
Miss Lillie Fairway, whose women’s
classes in the same hospital furnished
with goods one entire stall at the exhibi-
tion, was a needlewoman before she be-
came a nurse. She took up that profes-
sion to get away from sewing, but her
talents wouldn’t be submerged, and now
her work is all with needles and threads.
Mae Andrews is the fresh-complexioned
young woman who is hairdresser to the
patients at Mont Park. The city
auxiliaries have made possible this posi-
tion, to which she goes every day. She
finds her work interesting and worth
while, for the psychological effect of well-
groomed heads is all for the good of the
patients.
Irene Purcell and Doris Packer are
fast movers at running over the cobble-
stones of the lane leading to the stage
door of the King’s, at leaping up the
stairs and getting on their make-
up. One late afternoon last week
they went to Valerie Purves’s party
and stayed longer than they meant
to, so that the management of their show,
“The Women,” was relieved at getting a
telephone call from the hostess to the
effect that “Mary” and “Nancy” were
already on their way. Special guests at
the party were the Larry Adlers and
Anton Dolin (Pat to all his friends), who
also had to fly off while things were gay
to dance in “Les Sylphides.” He bal-
anced things up by arriving at the party
half an hour before the main body of
guests.
To-night (23rd), to-morrow and Satur-
day, Margot Tucker, whose photograph
is by Jack Cato, becomes Chris Faring-
don in the Power House Dramatic Club s
production of “Housemaster at the
Apollo. Margot, who is the second
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Cecil Tucker,
of Brighton, became interested in acting
during her schooldays at Clyde, and
later had experience in Terence Crisp’s
short-play productions. She has just
completed first-year exams, for a Physi-
cal Education Diploma, and in between
times has attended a number of parties
for her friend Pam Tarbat, of Ceylon,
who is staying at Coronado.
Anton Dolin’s School of Choreo-
graphic Art and his book Ballet-Go-
Round should have their heads wetted
round about the same time. Dolin ex-
pects that his autobiography will catch the
Christmas sales, and he hopes to open
his summer school in Sydney as soon as
possible after the Ballet’s arrival there.
The book isn’t his first; some years ago
he published Divertissement.
Dolin, who is a good swimmer, is
looking forward to his first encounter
with surf on Sydney beaches. He
shouldn’t find shooting the breakers any
trouble, for in the South of France he
became practised in the art of aqua-ski-
ing, a much more ticklish business than
aquaplaning. (Dolin has never been on
snow skis, for ballet seasons keep him too
busy for holidays during the winter.)
When he went to the Melbourne Cup he
saw his first big race meeting. Although
his father was a racing man Dolin
doesn’t ride and he bets only occasion-
ally. He keeps in perfect physical con-
dition without dieting, but is not a
hungry man and eats far less than desk-
bound workers who don’t get one-tenth
of his exercise. He smokes, but never
before midday. Hot weather doesn’t
worry him, and he considers that danc-
ing in a heat-wave is no more arduous
than in a snap of frost, for in summer
there is no stiffness to be worked out of
muscles. He prefers wooden stages to
those covered with linoleum, and his
ideal theatre is the Opera House at
Monte Carlo. Ballroom dancing doesn’t
interest him and he never takes part in it.
A young man never knows what he
can do until he tries. Larry Watkins
didn’t know he could make a good speech
until his wedding day, when at the recep-
tion in the New Embassy he got up and
pushed back his chair and a. lock of
hair from his forehead to make an
oration of moment in a good strong tone
of voice. Another speechmaker was
Percy Mustow, who announced that he
has known and approved of four genera-
tions of the Watkins family. Bride Peggy
Johnson, who is the Harry Johnsons’
only daughter, and her four maids were
100 per cent, charm and youth in their
white frocks, the bride carrying a
prayer-book, the attendants with white
sweet-peas in their hair. The ’groom s
retainers were Alick Watkins, Keith
Cowan (who is in the midst of
final med. exams. ; he’d had two on the
day of the wedding), Sos Morris, who
is fifth-year med., Roy Frost and Paddy
Clarke.
Deputising for John Reed, Anton Dolin
put a pink carnation in his buttonhole
and leapt up the stairs of the Riddell
Galleries to open Adrian Lawlor’s exhi-
bition. Dolin doesn’t collect pictures
(his hoarding instincts run towards ad-
vertisement ashtrays), but i& interested
in art in relation to ballet decor and the
co-operation necessary between dancers
and painters. Those present included
Mrs. Lawlor, the Vassilieffs (he in green
shirt and red tie), Ambrose Hallen (his
was the only beard present), Ina Morris,
her tiny black hat bursting into full
bloom of a red rose ; Anne Outhwaite,
with her large straw hat slung over her
wrist; Gwenda Carney, with white pique
sash and piping upon her navy frock ;
Cecilia Senior, a brunette, in a black
sailor hat; and Yvonne Atkinson, with
a burst-orange flower as a neckpiece to
carry on the color of her severe little
hat. Grey suit and spotty tan blouse
were worn by Mrs. Gerard Osborne.


BREWERY PLANT FOR SALE
AT TOWERS BREWERY, CHARTERS TOWERS
»
A varied assortment of Brewery Plant for sale at sacrifice prices. All guaranteed in good order
and condition. Items include:—
12-head Rotary Bottling Machine ... £lOO
Progressive 1936 Improved Spray Type
Pasteuriser, with Trucks Complete. . £175
Auldjo Compressor £3O
Two Pulp Washers, each £2O
Two Cornish Boilers, price for the two £B5
Fermenting Tun, new £lOO
Also—Fermenting Tuns, Cylinders, Air Receiver, Shafting, Pulleys, Boilers, Pumps.
Full Particulars from
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS, LIMITED, TOWNSVILLE.
f
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Yes!”
“Yarriupi”: Cecil Freer was deco-
rated the other day at Admiralty House,
Sydney, as reward for more than a
generation of hard work in Arnhem
Land. To him belongs the main credit for
keeping the buffalo country open. Freer
has helped his fellow-man, promoted
industry, done his considerable best to
persuade the world that the N.T. is a
white man’s country. He has friends who
believe that if he had been content
to sit in a city he would have been a
K.C., and that when decorations were
doled out he would have rejected
the M.B.E. with scorn and reached for
a K.C.M.G.
One of their reasons for thinking this
was the old-time case of Ah Fat, newly
arrived from Canton, whom Freer chas-
tised—very justly.
Ah Fat had no sense of justice. He
went to a lawyer. So one hot morning
Freer found himself in Darwin court-
house, a blue paper in one pocket, 15
sovereigns in another and the Chinaman
(with his lawyer) looking as if he had
been run over by a steam shovel, for a
herbalist and his pigments had put in
some good work in extending bruises
and simulating contusions.
The Administrator took the bench. The
slightly-creaking Ah Fat took the stand.
“You speak English?” asked his
lawyer.
“Yes.”
The tale went on. Freer had nothing
to do but count every time the com-
plainant said “Yes.” He said “Yes” 51
times as his lawyer unfolded the story.
Said the Administrator: “Any ques-
tions, Mr. Freer?”
“Yes,” said Mr. Freer.
Then in a terrible voice he asked the
Chinaman:
“And now you want to withdraw the
charge?”
“Yes,” said the Chinaman.
“You understand clearly what you are
saying—you want this base insinuation
against me eliminated from the records
so that I may return to my peripatetic
occupations?”
“Yes.”
“And you savee altogether?”
“Yes.”
The indignant prosecuting lawyer rose:
“You wantim Missee Freer he go
gaol? He hit you all right?”
“Yes.”
Mr. Freer countered.
“Another question, your Worship?
Thank you! Did your lawyer pay you
fifty pounds to invent this monstrous
charge and get me sent to Fanny Bay, so
that I couldn’t sit in at the poker school
with him and win his money?”
He smiled ingratiatingly. Ah Fat
smiled ingratiatingly.
“Yes,” he said.
The Court gave up. Three minutes
afterwards Cecil was saying to a be-
wildered Ah Fat and his justly indignant
counsel:
“Come and have a drink?” “Yes,”
said Ah Fat.
There is no Freer affidavit attached to
this story; but that’s how his friends
tell it.
“Boong”: Minister McEwen says that
he is preparing a complete New Deal
(catastrophic expression) for N.T. natives.
He thinks more attention must be given
to the care of Binghi who has made con-
tact with white civilisation before any
more abos. are disturbed from their
tribal life. I suspect that N.T. abos.
are suffering mainly from a surfeit of
protectors, anthropologists and visiting
politicians. Before anything is done to
help or hinder them, industrial, commer-
cial and pastoral interests likely to be
affected should be consulted, and a few
pertinent extracts from the Payne report
might be kept well in mind: —-
The aboriginal problem has got com-
pletely out of perspective. There is a most
undesirable tendency to make all industries
revolve around the aboriginal question
If anything occurs to the Administration
calculated to help the aboriginal it is pro-
claimed immediately without regard to its
effects on industries actively carrying on
operations of value to the Territory.
It is gospel truth.
* * * *
“Philp”: The Public Works Com-
mittee reports that the cost of the new
Darwin gaol will be reduced from
£43,000 to £37,000. It was “astonished”
to discover that the resident architect in
Darwin knew nothing of Canberra’s ideas
for the clink, and had submitted plans
for an edifice to cost £115,000. It didn’t
need five Ms.P. and two Senators to find
that out.
# * * *
“Zedo”: The fairy godmother who
has been watching over Darwin’s com-
fort now proposes to invade its bath-
room. It is to have water from the
Manton River ; sewerage, too. Having
discovered Darwin, the Commonwealth
Government is spending money regard-
less. Graziers, particularly settlers on
the Daly River, who can’t struggle
through the mud on the long wet season,
are wishing that the Santa Clauses would
look their way. They would like some
of those concrete-strip roads of which
S’Africa has built hundreds of miles.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: Brisbane game fisher-
men challenge the world with a catch
made from the launch Summit, off Point
“Fetch 'er over, Ma; the irons ready!”
Lookout, which is easily accessible from
Brisbane. They came home with 37
fish weighing 7501 b. after 4} hours’ work,
xhe heaviest were a couple of 150-
pounders, but the reef fish, averaging
about 121 b.—red bass, sweetlip, Golden
Sampson—gave them some of the best
sport. There are spots in the north that
used t 0 be able to do better than thatj
particularly round the Barrier Reef. As
for small fishing—well, three of us once
tried to drain Lake Cootharaba of bream
and knocked off at the 400 mark, with
little in the boat below three-quarters of
a poU nd in weight,
* * * *
~ , ~ XT . ...
„ = Queensland* Nutnt.on
Council has done useful work in analys-
ing local fruits and veges. for vitamin C
content. The daily minimum for health
is contained in about 3ioz. of actual
edible weight of these, but a generous
factor of safety is advisable, and children
need more vitamin C than adults. It is
destroyed rapidly by cooking or baking
soda. Orange juice is taken as the
analytical standard, with 50 milli-
grammes to each 100 grammes. Fully-
ripe pawpaw, with an index of 100, is
the richest of all fruits in it, but, as with
other fruits, the vitamin content falls if
the pawpaw is under- or overripe.
Lemon juice and grapefruit have an index
0 f 30, mandarins 20, fully-ripe “sugar”
bananas 20, “lady fingers” 15, Caven-
dish only seven. Rough-leaf pineapples
yield 45, Ripleys 35, smooth-leaf 15.
Tomatoes have an index of 20, mostly
from the outer flesh. Freshly-picked let-
tuce has 20, but the vitamin C content
falls rapidly after picking.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Dead in Brisbane, R. C. Lloyd,
State secretary of the R.S.S.I.L.A. since
1933. Lloyd began his working life in
the Royal Bank, was on the accountancy
staff of the Chillagoe Smelters, and then
joined a partner to buy Frensham, a
property in the Winton district. The
war saw him a sergeant-major in the
52nd. Its effects made life at Frensham
a bit too much for him, and he returned
to the city, where he was appointed em-
ployment officer to the League 10 years
ago. His rise to the secretaryship was
rapid.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: I fear that “Kaloa” (B.
9/11 /’3B) is unduly hopeful about those
U.S.A. malaria results from what he
calls atabrine—really, atebrin. Like
plasmoquin, it has yielded promising re-
sults at times, but the derivatives of
quinine continue as the best all-round
preventive and curative drugs against any
of the three species of plasmodium which,
separately or in conjunction, produce the
disease-picture known for short as
malaria. Relative effects of all vary con-
siderably, according to species and life-
cycle stage of the organism in any given
case or series of cases. The only method
of “wiping out” malaria from any place
where it already exists is to destroy the
anopheline mosquitoes which convey it
from the blood of infected persons to
others And modern quinine medica-
ercts to s 6 “ nP
effects Jo whicn* K. reters. *
, „ . . . . ,
Questo : Are those tuskers of the
Cooktown scrubs descendants of the
pigs Captain Cook had aboard the
Endeavour (B. 9/11 /’38)? I doubt it.
Meat-hungry miners found no pigs on
the slopes of Mount Cook or out along
the Palmer during the rushes in the
’seventies. The present brutes are prob-
ably descendants of New Guinea pigs
introduced by lugger crews in the early
days of pearlshelling. Don Juan Arias
records that De Quiros saw pigs in
New Guinea in 1606.
* * * *
“Derrot”: During the hearing of one
f • t j
of the lugger cases at Darwm Judge
Wells said: “As far as I know, there has
never been any substantial evidence to
prove that crews of foreign vessels have
interfered with natives. On the other
hand, there has been abundant evidence
that crews of locally-registered luggers
have been doing it for years, and are
still doing it.” There is no evidence that
Canberra has taken any notice of these
very serious remarks. Are we to take
it that aboriginal ordinances are for orna-
ment and not for use?
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: The australites of my
previous par. certainly do belong to the
family of tektites (B. 19/10/’3B). How-
ever, apart from the fact that it
was actually seen to fall, the Cottesloe
australite is unusual both in size and
shape, both of which approximate to
the half of a large Valencia orange.
Color, very dark bottle-glass, but
slightly transparent. Australites and
tektites puzzle physicists in that they
differ essentially from meteorites, the
latter being invariably metallic, usually
nickel-iron. Out east from the Henbury
(Centralia) Double Punchbowl, numbers
of glassy globules similar to tektites have
been picked up. These are considered
to be solidified slag globules, shed from
the 1000-ton meteorite as it came flam-
ing down from the sky. The general
direction of this slag shower, eastward,
seems to indicate that it was from that
direction that the giant meteorite came.
Knowledge concerning australites was
largely hypothetical prior to the arrival
of the Cottesloe specimen; it demon-
strates with certainty that these glassy
globules are of non-terrestrial origin.
One theory was that all tektites, etc.,
were really fragments of volcanic glass
erupted ages ago in certain localities,
and therefore purely terrestrial.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Something queer has
been happening not very far offshore
from the South Queensland coast. At
Southport, early in November, the sea
at the Main Beach became suddenly
colder than it is in midwinter, and full
of minute fragments of vegetable matter
resembling finely-broken weed. After a
few days the water slowly regained
normal temperature. Soon after, a spell
of north-east weather suddenly piled the
beach north of Caloundra with tons of
dead sea-squirts which must have come
from at least two miles out. All the way
up the coast from Cape Moreton to
Sandy Cape, offshore fishing inside the
10-mile line has been unusually poor for
months, although the “wides,” from 20
to 40 miles out, have remained good on
the rare occasions when the unseasonal
weather has allowed a visit. Also the
schools of “bonito” —really small tunny—
ordinarily to be seen from any headland
through the winter were completely
absent this year.


Tfi#
EMPIRES MILLIONS
o
Business Going West!
Yes to 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a pull
in the country districts
of W.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
St. George's House,
St. George’s Terrace,
Perth,
Western Australia.
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES &. CO., j
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
f
"RADIO DIGEST”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but “RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most important radio
publications.
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
from the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Seventeen Watt 6L6G
Amplifier.
To satisfy the need for an intermediate-
size amplifier for general purposes, A.W.
Valve Co. engineers give details in
Radiotronics No. 19 of the arrangement
described here.
The amplifier uses two 6L6G Radio-
tron valves in slightly overbiased Class
A push-pull operation, and, since self-
bias is employed, the total current drain
increases only slightly, from 158 to 167
ma., from zero to maximum signal,
This constancy of current drain enables
the field coil to be inserted in series with
the filter to give the greatest economy
in components. Alternatively, it is pos-
sible to operate the amplifier from a
large genemotor without the loss of out-
put which tends to occur when the plate
current changes to any considerable
extent.
Circuit diagram, with values, of the latest Radiotron-designed amplifier This is a
17 -watt intermediate type with negative feedback.
Negative feedback of a similar kind
to that used in several previous ampli-
fiers has been employed, and the voltage
from the plate circuit of the 6L6G stage
is fed back through a suitable voltage
divider to the screen grid of the first
6J7G stage. The feedback percentage is
adjusted so that at full signal output
the input voltage to the first stage is
0.24 volt R.M.S. and the gain reduction
factor in the 6L6Gs is 2.35. Second
harmonic distortion is below 2.5 p.c.
over the whole of the useful audio range,
while the third harmonic distortion is
extremely low over the most important
part of the frequency range and is
below 3 p.c. at all frequencies. This
harmonic distortion is as measured over
the whole amplifier from the input to
the first stage.
Owing to the use of feedback, high
voltages are not developed in the 6L6G
plate circuit, and there is therefore no
likelihood of damage being done to these
valves by accidental overload. There is
no necessity for the 6L6G valves to be
specially matched, since they are operat-
ing almost under Class A conditions.
The power supply incorporates a 385-385
volt 175 ma. transformer and Radiotron
SV4G rectifier. A two-stage- filter is
necessary, and the first filter choke is
rated at 30 henries 175 ma., the second
being the field of the loudspeaker. This
field will receive energisation to the
extent of 12.5 watts at zero signal;
reaching just under 14 watts with maxi-
mum signal.
If the first filter choke has a lower
resistance than 500 ohms, it will prob-
ably be found necessary to add further
resistance in series in order to maintain
the plate-to-cathode voltage of the
6L6Gs at 275 volts on maximum signal.
The rise of plate voltage at zero signal
is permissible and does not exceed the
plate or screen dissipation of the valves.
Characteristics of the amplifier are
shown in tabulated form for average
valves, but it must be understood that
individual valves may show discrepancies
from these figures, depending on indi-
vidual valve cathode currents. Varia-
tions which may occur thus are com-
paratively slight and not sufficient to
cause any appreciable change in plate
and screen voltage.
Certain variations in the plate currents
of power valves are always to be ex-
pected and are no appreciable detriment,
particularly where self-bias is used. If
fixed bias is used, it may be necessary
to take additional precautions, such as an
individual bias adjustment for each valve.
Amplifier Characteristics.
Zero Max.
Signal. Signal.
Plate to cathode 6L6G voltage 286 275 v.
Screen to cathode 6L6G voltage 286 275 v.
Total amplifier current .. 158 167 ma.
Grid bias 6L6G .. .. 18.85 19.85 v.
Field energisation .. .. 12.5 13.95 w.
V.C.
B.B. C. and Reception Reports.
The 8.8. C. overseas intelligence direc-
tor writes:
In B. 14/9/’3B you referred to part of
the recent talk by our controller of en-
gineering, Sir Noel Ashbridge. We notice,
however, that in condensing the talk you
attribute to him the statement that “the
8.8. C. does not reply to reports from
overseas listeners,” and comment: “Surely
the 8.8. C. can spare time and postage
to keep alive the interest of short-wave
listeners?” Actually, Sir Noel, while ex-
plaining the reasons why the 8.8. C. does
not issue “verifications of listeners’ re-
ception of Daventry, said, “I want to say
that we still want your reports on the re-
ception of Daventry. We take pleasure in
acknowledging them and in. dealing with
any specific technical point which may be
raised.”
The 8.8. C. welcomes correspondence,
either on technical or programme sub-
jects, and replies to every letter received
from listeners. We feel sure that you will
understand that the 8.8. C. regards corre-
spondence with its listeners as of the great-
est importance, as it supplies an invaluable
indication of the tastes and requirements of
its overseas audience. We were particularly
interested in your remark that the Aus-
tralian listener frequently gets much better
direct reception of Daventry than he might
from a local relay, and that Daventry is
looked upon as almost a local station. Lis-
teners who wish to have more detailed in-
formation about our advance programmes
can receive our small weekly programme
journal, “8.8. C. Empire Broadcasting, for
a subscription of 10s. a year.
As stated in B. 19/10/’3B, sug-
gested that some form of printed “QSL
card” would better satisfy short-wave
listeners. The “veri” means much to
many s.w.l. organisations for competitive
reasons, but no doubt an official letter is
verification enough. Difference is prob-
ably that a “QSL card” fits snugly into
an album or with others on a wall dis-
play.
Radio Aviation Beams.
The Lorenz radio beam (B. 2/11/’3B)
as it will be used in Australia is not
a landing-path or “air-track”
system, but, with a range of
at least 100 miles, its func-
tion will be to keep machines
on course, particularly when
flying blind.
When the American long-
wave type “air-track” system
was first spoken of Squadron-
leader C. S. Wiggins was
sent abroad to investigate it.
He found that the beam had
certain faults —fading, inter-
ference and night effects—
that would seriously limit
its use in Australia, and went to
Europe for a more suitable type.
The Lorenz system was then being used
as a landing-path beam in Germany.
Wiggins found that the system could be
adapted fo guide ’planes to an aerodrome
—as distinct from down to the ground
for a landing.
By fitting subsidiary aerials on the
boundary of the flying field, it will be
possible for the Lorenz system to have
both functions, but for the present in
Australia it is intended to use it only
as an “on-course” signal to pilots.
Landing beams are the subject of con-
siderable argument among airmen. Some
contend that it is impossible to bring a
’plane down in “zero” visibility, and
argue that a pilot must have a glimpse
of the ground in time to flatten out.
Others claim that theoretically it is pos-
sible to bring down a ’plane that, with
the aid of slots and flaps, sinks (rather
than glides) in landing position, but
point out that there is grave danger of
wiping off the undercarriage with
machines that glide nose-down.
The route beam, as used in the U.S.A.
and as it will be used in Australia, can
greatly assist a pilot in landing in bad
weather. It is reckoned in the U.S.A.
that, with the aid of such a beam, a pilot
can safely land with the “ceiling” as
low as 200 ft. Landings have been made
with the “ceiling” down to 50ft., but
when the ground cannot be seen from
200 ft. a lot depends on how clear the
approaches to the aerodrome are of
trees, chimneys and radio aerials and
how much experience the pilot has had
of beam flying.
AVIAN.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-
waver described B. 28/4/’37.
Although the tuned R.F. type of
receiver may be considered as in-
selective in comparison with a superhet,
a high degree of selectivity can
be obtained with this receiver. Even
VLR, with its very strong signal on 31
metres, does not show interference with
KZRM or with TPA3 and GSE on
25 metres. W2XAD can be tuned clear
of WBXK, W2XE, GSJ and GSH on 13
metres. Then on 16 metres GSG,
W3XAL, PHI and DJE, though close
together, can be tuned in separately. With
the aid of the preselector on the broad-
cast band 3XY, 2KO, 2WL and 2MW
can easily be sorted out. At 6.30 p.m.
3XY is full strength with only 3ft. of
aerial wire, including 2ft. to the pre-
selector. An idea of the performance of
this T.R.F. receiver is given by com-
parison with a new seven-valve vibrator
superhet which needs a good external
aerial to hear 3XY.
VLR3 on the new 11.88mc. trans-
mission is a great success here, being
much stronger than on 9.58mc. Daventry
has put GSE on 11.86mc. at 8.45 p.m.,
signal being poor until midnight, at
which time 2RO is also first-rate. OLR4A
opens at 12.15 a.m. with a good trans-
mission. Daventry Transmission 2 shows
GSJ, GSF and GSG in fine form,
with GSF the best of the night-
time 19-metre stations. Early-morning
reception is good, the 49-metre band
giving ZRH Cape Town, DJC and an-
other station, which is probably a South
African, just below GSA. News from
ZRH is given at 7.15 a.m. New stations
noted at intervals include KQH and the
Government experimental station at Ran-
goon.
At night, 60-metre stations —four
Indians and two Javanese —are heard
well, and a favorite station is the
Javanese on 99 metres. In the mornings
W3XAL can be heard on 16 metres until
noon, and has come in well until 1.30
p.m. On 19 metres there are DJL,
GSO, W2XE, W2XAD and RV96,
whilst on 25 metres RNE, TPA2,
OLR4A, DJD and GSD are heard. The
Turkish station at Ankara is easily the
best on the 31-metre band, which has
also GSB, Moscow, Paris, GSC, WIXK,
KZRM and 2RO. On 27 metres CSM
is good. Reception on 49 metres is
falling off, but GSA, DJC, ZRH and
ZRK are still audible.
From noon to 2 p.m. there are only
W3XAL, DJB, DJQ, DJR, VUD2, YDC
and TPA4, but from 5 p.m. onward
reception is excellent on 19, 25 and 31
metres.
K.B.G.
Amateur Chatter.
In Britain an amateur first holds the
“Artificial Aerial” permit, and may be
a year or so after that persuading the
authorities that he should be permitted
to radiate. It means that the majority
of Gs are genuine experimenters. An
attempt has been made in Australia to
ensure that VKs can handle a key and
interpret the Morse code by making
compulsory six months’ probation on
telegraphy before the license-holder is
permitted to use telephony. Thus the
fledgling VK should be a useful operator
in any emergency calling for telegraphic-
proficiency. But numbers of people
acquired tickets by intensified periods of
Morse-code swotting before the new rule
came into force —many, of them could
not now copy Morse if put to the test.
That little headway is being made with
56mc. DX in Australia is largely due
to the fact that individuals interested in
the development of the band are widely
scattered. It is high time that the VK
amateur organisations did something defi-
nite to co-ordinate experimental research
along 56mc. lines. Licenses are not
granted merely for DX working. That
the 56mc. band has been “open” during
the last two weeks appears evident from
observations at the writer’s and other
Sydney locations. Another golden op-
portunity to determine something con-
crete about the possible behavior of
56mc. under suitable ionosphere condi-
tions in Australia has been missed. Pro-
gress in this direction would be more of
a feather in the cap of experimental radio
than indulgence of the youthful urge to


rtjfcutfeti'a
LimericK
Competitions
Closing Date December 7.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space
provided for the purpose, cut out the whole
coupon, and post to reach
"Limericks No. 8,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than December 7.
Results of this Eighth Limerick Competition
will be announced in “The Bulletin’" of
December 1 4.
Any competitor may send in as many
entries as he or she wishes for this or succeed-
ing competitions, but each entry must be filled
in on a Limerick Coupon.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
Pty., Ltd., is eligible to compete. Otherwise
these competitions are open to all, free of
any entrance charge.
This announcement will be repeated in
“The Bulletin’’ of November 30, and coupons
may be filled in from any issue.
EIGHTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
A cricketer fielding at Cue
Was the Worst at a catch that I knew,
For when offered a “ sitter ”
He'd nervously titter
Results, and New Competitions
Results of the Seventh Limerick Competition,
which closes to-day (November 23), will be
announced in next week’s “Bulletin’ ’
(November 30).
Also in the November 30 issue the Ninth
of this series of Competitions will be
announced. The same prize-money (£5O)
will be offered, and conditions will be the
same as for the Eighth.
be one country ahead of the next fellow
on already well-understood frequencies.
Examination of the 56mc. band on the
dial of an Ultra-Skyrider shows that the
limits are elastic. With a 15mmfd. tuning
capacity in the grid of a 954 and nine-
turn |in. coil, about 30 degrees on a
0 to 100 dial more than takes in the
band. With the advent of crystal con-
trol, out-of-band operation will be elimi-
nated. That this offence has unwittingly
South Australian amateurs with ultra-
high-frequency portable equipment (lur-
ing a recent 56mc. direction-finding field
day at Manoora, S.A. They are, left to
right, VKs 5AI, SHW, SGR and 5JC.
been committed by one or two Sydney
stations is a legacy from the “wobbu-
lators.”
The 28mc. band has shown by no
means the performance of this time last
year, when Euro-
peans could be
heard with strong
signals between
6 p.m. and mid-
night E.S.T. Sev-
eral Gs and Ds
have been heard at
intervals, but with
signals rarely above
R 6, and mostly in
the trough of deep
fading. It seems
that W9FM’s DX
prediction is
already well along
the road to fulfil-
ment. In contrast,
however, are the
consistently strong
’phone signals from
VK6MW, who can
be heard from 11 a.m. to late after-
noon. These conditions possibly augur
well for 56mc.
On 7mc. particularly, and on 14mc.,
static is prevalent. The 7mc. band is
all right during the morning, but a hope-
less proposition long before sundown.
DX is patchy on 14mc. between static
spasms, but stations like PK6XX con-
tinue with consistently good strength.
The Guba ’plane used by the Archbold
Expedition is due to make a trip from
Hollandia to Sydney and Melbourne, and
no doubt several VKs will accept the
opportunity to examine some really effi-
cient aviation radio equipment. The
’plane station signs KHXAX, and makes
a point of working with amateurs when
aloft, but on commercial frequencies ad-
jacent to 7mc. and 14mc. Most consis-
tent VK to keep schedules with PK6XX
and the Guba is Doc Hewitt, of VK4TH,
Cairns (N.Q.).
VKSZU reports from S.A. on 56mc.
activity: Crystal-controlled stations are
VKSKL (60mc.), VKSHD (58mc.),
VKSJT (56.17mc.) and VKSZU
!56.46mc.). Stations with self-excited
transmitters are VKs SGF, SAF, SBF
and SRE. VKSKL is on the air each
afternoon from 4.30 to 5 p.m. E.S.T., at
which time ZLs are believed to be active.
An old hand, recommencing with a four-
stage crystal-controlled transmitter, is
VKSBD. A careful watch is kept on all
bands below 7mc. by VKSZU in order
to keep a check on skip.
VK2NO.
After several months off the air owing
to a wrecked wind-generator, the Pit-
cairn Island radio station is again in
operation. VR6AY is the callsign, and
the station may often be heard in com-
munication with amateurs on 20 metres.
1938 Radio Trade Annual and
Service Manual.
Detailed information about Australian
radio manufacturing and broadcasting
is contained in the 1938 edition of the
directory issued by Australian Radio
Publications, 30 Carrington-street, Syd-
ney. It runs to 408 pages, and
is valuable to the radio dealer
and serviceman by reason of the very
large section containing circuit diagrams
and technical details of practically every
commercially - manufactured radio re-
ceiver in Australia. The publication
reviews the radio trade during 1937, and
has sections dealing with Commonwealth
wireless regulations, Radio Research
Board report, customs tariff schedule,
patents, S.A.A. radio rules, I.R.E. mem-
bership and convention review, A.B.C.
report, electricity supply voltages
throughout Australia, educational aspects
of the radio profession, technical pro-
gress in broadcasting, receivers and all
valve types, information on receiver serv-
ing and the use of test equipment, radio-
manufacturer and personnel directory.
Price is 10s. post free.
Dial Mechanism for the
U.H.F. Receiver.
It is sometimes difficult to obtain dial
mechanisms completely free from back-
lash or slip for the short-wave receiver.
Any tendency to such fault shows up at
the higher frequencies. Illustrated is a
dial mechanism of English make excel-
lently suited to the needs of the short-
wave receiver experimenter. It can be
had from Reco Radio, Royal Arcade,
Sydney, at 7s. 6d.
A planetary drive provides two-speed
tuning and is taken up in a unique
manner. The left-hand mechanism
shows how two steel balls grip the driv-
ing disk just above the planetary drive.
There is no possibility of slipping even
with several ganged condensers with stiff
rotors applied to the dial. This mechan-
ism can be fitted to a receiver with a
home-made scale, or a celluloid 0- to 100-
degree scale can be adapted. A good
home-made scale can be readily made
from a celluloid protractor.
The Question Box.
I have a Victor receiver about three years
old, using 34, 15, 34, 32, 30 and 19 valve
types. lam told I cannot use the receiver with
an air-cell A battery owing to too-heavy fila-
ment current consumption. Could I substitute
another valve for the 15 without alteration to
the circuit ? —736.
This could be done by using a directly-heated
frequency changer such as the IC7G, but the
receiver would still take a heavy load from the
air cell. Scrapping the Class-B audio channel
in which the 30 and 19 valves are now used
in favor of a single pentode audio such as the
ILSG would reduce this. Price’s Radio, Angel-
place, Sydney, undertakes such conversions.
* * * *
(1) In the capacity-resistance bridge (B.
28/4/’3B) would the secondaries of two audio
transformers in series serve in place of the
tapped audio choke for the oscillator ? (2)
Is it possible to use power from a B eliminator
instead of batteries? (3) Has a circuit of a
simple valve-tester been described in back
issue ? —735.
(1) and (2) Yes. (3) No.
* * * *
(1) How can the Tuned R.F. Twin receiver
{B. 26/5/’3B) be adapted for loudspeaker
operation? (2) Coil data for broadcast recep-
tion, using for regeneration a 23-plate inidget
variable condenser, with \4ommfd. tuning con-
denser? —734.
(1) A resistance-coupled pentode of the ID4
type can easily be added. Plate coupling re-
sistor to the second triode section of the 19
would be 50,000 ohms, with .01 mica condenser
to grid of the ID4, and .smeg. resistor from
grid to C battery. Instead of the latter a .smeg.
potentiometer would be an advantage as a
volume control. In this way headphones could
be substituted for a permag. speaker without
any alteration to the circuit. (2) Two coils will
be needed on ljin. diameter formers to cover
the complete broadcast range with the 140mmfd.
tuning condenser. Grid windings will need
150 turns and 250 turns respectively of 30
enamelled or D.S.C. copper wire, with reaction
windings of approximately 40 turns of the same
wire.


cJ-eaderihip in
RADIO INSTRUCTION
Has been maintained for 25 years by
THE MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS
The reasons for its supremacy must interest you .
1. The School has up-to-date and comprehensive equipment.
2. Instruction is given by a fully qualified Staff.
3. The Engineers and Technicians’ section is under the control of Dr. W. G. Baker,
B.Sc., 8.E., D.Sc. Eng.
4. The demand for graduates from the School consistently exceeds the supply.
5. The School is sponsored by Amalgamated Wireless (A’sia), Ltd. Australia s
National Wireless Organisation.
Do you want to be a Research Engineer, a Broadcast Station Technician, a Marine or Aircraft Operator,
or a fully trained Radio Serviceman? No matter where your ambition lies, we can meet your needs.
Call, Write or ’Phone Now for 42 Page Illustrated Prospectus Describing All Courses in Detail.
MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS
Australia’s oldest and best-known Radio Training Institution.
97 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
’Phone BW 2211
-
163 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
’Phone M 4161
I
z
a nrr/?
&
V
4
£
a
A
c x
j
i
_IA \^
dsf
WITH NEW AND
IMPROVED FEATURES
Fordson has been proved the most useful
and economical worker on thousands of
properties throughout Australia. And now
a new Fordson with new features and
improvements is available. These include
new, truck-type steering for easier hand-
ling and new-type dual oil bath air cleaner
enabling the Fordson to operate steadily
under most difficult conditions in dust or
chaff-laden atmospheres. Fordson starts
easily and runs with unvarying efficiency
on low-cost power kerosene. Yet its pur-
chase price is far below that of tractors
using low grade fuels. Fordson saves time
and money because it has the power of
8-10 horses in the field as well as a wide
range of usefulness as a stationary power
plant. Investigate the new Fordson. Get
in touch with your local Fordson Dealer.
The Fordson finance plan provides excep-
tionally easy purchase terms.
Features like these make Fordson amazing value at its
low price:
Heavy duty transmission. Optional speeds. Governor
control for engine. Special Ford steel crankshaft,
statically and dynamically balanced. Exhaust va,v *
inserts. Bosch magneto impulse starter. Pulley whee
standard equipment. Rear end power take-off optional
at extra cost.
The NEW English Fordsoii
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS LIMITED,
Corner Bridge and Young Sts., Sydney
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND) LTD.
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Victoria, Riverina and Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE LIMITED,
City Showrooms:
601-603 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
South Australia:
POWER PLANT LTD., 98-100 Currie
Street, Adelaide
Western Australia:
LYNAS MOTORS LTD., Hay Street,
Perth
FORD
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PT_L LTD.
INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA'
F22.27T
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“El V.”: A decision of Lord Hewart
should settle the Artemus Jones pre-
cedent. Somebody sued Collins, the
publisher, because a character of the
plaintiff’s name in a book by Helen
Ashton was a financial crook and
a cad. The Lord C.J. held that the
plaintiff would actually “have to satisfy
the jury that the words complained of
were printed and published of and con-
cerning him ; in other words that they
were about him. It is common ground
in this case that there was no intention
on the part of the writer or publishers
to refer to the plaintiff.” The jury
found for the defendants.
* * * *
“Scholiast”: It is to be hoped that Bill
O'Reilly doesn't have to teach geography
at his school. Blaming the English for
the bad arrangements made for the Aus-
tralian cricketers’ tour, Bill mentioned that
the team had to play at Blackpool after
a match at Brighton and then go to
Folkestone, after which it was rushed
back to Scarborough. Later Bill re-
marked that they found out that Brighton
and Folkestone were only a few miles
apart, and so were Scarborough and
Blackpool! An energetic hiker might
walk either distance if he took his time,
but he would find that the length and
breadth of England were a bit over a
“few miles.”
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Anyone who has
been in charge of a ship’s bridge in
Chinese waters will recall with objur-
gation the hairbreadth shaves with which
small craft, appearing suddenly from no-
where, cut across the bows. As you
curse them from a bridge-wing, the grin-
ning company will wave cheerily and
shout back words of thanks. A Chinese
friend explained that it really isn’t sheer
reckless idiocy, but a particularly effec-
tive way of getting rid of the demons
who follow close astern of every craft,
seeking to work injury to her and her
crew. If you can contrive to get them
run over by a big ship it will take a full
day before they recover sufficiently to
get in any more really dirty work.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Some Victorian en-
thusiasts who want to send a G.P.S. team
to Henley to compete for the Grand
Challenge Cup have had their hopes
dashed by the headmasters, who say that
it would be impossible to break up school
work for so long a period. Eton is about
the only English school that rows regu-
larly at Henley. Occasionally rowing
schools like Shrewsbury, Westminster and
Radley make their bow there, but not
in the Grand Challenge event.
* * :!: /'
“Captain Pintle”: Few of the multi-
tudes who see Southampton, whether as
passengers or in the service of the sea,
realise that practically all of its great
expanse of deep, sheltered harbor is man-
made. It began just a century ago in
the minds of 50 London businessmen,
who had the foresight to realise that,
with Portsmouth commanding the estuary
entrance, and deep water to its head,
the quiet little seaside resort could, with
the help of steam power to handle ships
alongside, be made into a very safe
harbor against war or weather risk.
They formed the Dock Company of
Southampton, and when 216 acres of
mud land came into the market were
laughed at for paying £5OOO for it. Dur-
ing the last ten years, £10,000,000 has
been profitably spent on extensions of
that investment, and Southampton has
become one of the world’s greatest pas-
senger ports.
*** * *
End of a mighty hunter, recorded by
“Munglash” in the Livingstone (Northern
Rhodesia) “Mail”:
Charlie Ross, Elephant Control Officer, now
sleeps his last long sleep in the Luangwa
Valley, near the place where his 350th elephant
won the victory. Knowing Charlie as I knew
him he would not begrudge that grand old
bull getting the better of the fight. He shot it
out to the end as he always did, and went out
with his boots on, as he wished he would.
Born in South Australia in 1878, he was in
the Union Bank of Australia for some years
in S.A. and on the W.A. goldfields. Came to
South Africa in the Boer War, and after that
he was goldmining in Southern Rhodesia till
the outbreak of the Great War. Off to England
at once to join up. On account of his damaged
arms, he could not get to Flanders, but as he
was a fine chemist he was sent to Gretna on
munitions.
He came to Northern Rhodesia when the war
was over. He took on elephant-shooting
for the Government on and off, but for the last
four years had been a Government Control
Officer.
About two years ago he lost the sight of his
right eye. Since then he had shot over 200
elephants. One day he got a bull elephant
and a lioness with a right and a left.
1 was telling a native of Charlie’s death
and remarked, “Well, Chesenga, the two natives
who were with him did not leave their Bwana.”
Said Chesenga: “Bwana, how could they run
away? Bwana Ross never fan.”
So passed one of the finest, straightest men
who ever trod this old earth.


s m
u
A
<p
£5/10/
Throw away your brush
and blades and shave the
Schick way. Over 2
million Schick shavers
in daily use, saving time
and money. Schick can-
not cut the tenderest
skin. It leaves the face
smooth and flexible.
Obtainable all stores.
d,
-LAs
fiS
W
us<
r
7
Lc
a -
<9^
t
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Westralian Lambs.
“Ek Dum”: Some idea of the rapid
growth of the Westralian lamb trade can
be gauged from the fact that between
1936 and 1937, when 275,000 lambs were
turned off, the increase in output was
100 p.c. Breeders, too, are faced with
conditions which would make easterners
stop to think—shortage of perennial
grass, of green feed and growing season.
The lamb-raising area in the West
runs about 600 miles from Albany to
Geraldton, and averages about 70 miles
wide. Little of it is first-class country,
and a generalised policy is difficult in
view of the frequent and abrupt soil
changes. The rainfall mostly is under
20in., though it runs to 30in. and more
in the south and south-west, it is so
distributed that all feed is sprung in
winter. At the northern point of the belt,
the season is so short that feed is dry
by September, but though rains are
irregular actual drought is rare over most
of the lamb country.
The turn-off months in the north are
luly and August; in the far south, Novem-
ber and December. From Geraldton
downwards most districts depend on suh.
clover, but in the south and s.-w. peren-
nials, such as rye, form the staple.
Present production of Geraldton dis-
trict is up to 10,000 lambs a year. J. M.
Coleman, who recently reported to the
Australian Meat Council, thinks the
numbers can be quadrupled, especially if
Wimmera rye is added to the sub. clover.
In the Midlands; he thinks chances of
expansion are much greater. The Avon
Valley, which now generally carries a
sheep to the acre, can be made to carry
two to three to the acre, and marketing
costs are only from 9d. to Is. per lamb.
Albany and Katanning are hampered
to some extent because they are centres
of merino production. The coastal and
s.-west districts, mainly dairying country
at present, look promising for the future.
Some of the best results in the State are
being got round Boyup and Pinjarra.
Hand-feeding is needed there for a very
short period after the early rains only,
and with a rotational grazing system
even the poorer gravel type of land is
estimated to be capable of carrying three
to four sheep to the acre.
There is a great deal of work to be
done in improving types. Income could
probably be jumped 25 to 50 p.c. in
three years by the use of proper ewes.
Rams, except Southdowns, which are of
very high quality, could also stand im-
provement. Wonders have been done in
stock and pasture improvement.-
Choosing a Drench.
“J.R.D.”: The chief points to watch
when buying sheep drench are that it is
correct for the purpose; then purity,
quality and cost.
A man doses his sheep because they
are not doing well or because they are
pale in the skin. Drenching must be a
gamble unless he knows which worm his
hee P are u sufferin S 11 P a y s to
have the sheep expertly examined.
£ ac h type of worm is located in a
particular part of the stomach or intes-
tines, and each has to be attacked in a
different way.
The large stomach worm may be
cleaned up by drenching with double-
length carbon, let. This also 1S best
Tbe b|ack . scour worm is hard 10
detect deaths caused by it are often
attributed to lungworm. It lives in the
small intestines and is best drenched with
bluestone and nicotine sulphate,
The nodule or pimply gutworni is only
satisfactorily treated by using an enema,
The P rice of a drench should not be
worke t l out a u l cost P er B allo, T but rather
al cost pei shee P-
“More power to your elbow , Mother !”
Phosphatic Licks for Sheep.
“J. Want”: Recent C.S. and I.R. ex-
periments should be a guide to the giv-
ing of phosphatic licks, and particularly
Nauru ground rock phosphates, to sheep.
Five groups of animals were fed with
rock phosphates supplying from 60 to
170mgs. of fluorine" r sheep per day.
It was calculated that from salt and
phosphate the maximum amount of
fluonne which a sheep would ordtnartly
take over a year would be 50mgs. per
° t . .
Sheep fed less than 120mgs. during
the experiments remained in good health
and grew normally. Beyond this dosage,
though animals continued to do well for
a year, their health after that declined,
and their food consumption fell eventu-
ally to sometimes as little as 40 p.c. of
that of the controls, though wool-produc-
tion did not seem to be affected. Dosage
above 120mgs. altered the color of the
bones to a chalky white accompanied by
thickening and deformity.
When over 60mgs. was given, teeth
were affected, but not always seriously.
Intermittent small dosing resulted in
increases in weight and food consump-
tion during periods when the lick was not
being given.
Under normal conditions there seems
to be little danger to animals from the
use of Nauru rock phosphate intermit-
tently.
Food Values for Pigs.
“Kyamba”: Of the grains, I give first
place to barley as the best pork- and
bacon-producer, with wheat and oats
next. Because of the large hull percent-
age, oats should not be fed to pigs under
three months old. Fed with wheat, peas
are good, but fed alone they produce
hard, lean bacon.
Pollard is good for youngsters and
weaners, but as the pigs get older mix
40 p.c. pollard with 60 p.c. grain to pro-
duce firm flesh. Avoid maize and beans
as producers of inferior flesh and fat.
Refuse from restaurants should be
boiled, cooled and the fat skimmed off,
as excess fat may cause scouring. This
refuse is usually high in starch and fat
and lacking in protein, so that grain
and meat should be fed with it for best
results. It should produce on an average
lib. liveweight of pork for every 201 b.
refuse.
Bran fed to sows suckling litters is a
valuable laxative—2lb. a day with other
feed is enough.
In milk feeding, broaden the ration as
the. pig gets older. At eight weeks, feed
31b. grain to a gallon skim-milk, and
increase the grain by for every two
weeks until 51b. is reached at 16 weeks.
Fatten off at this amount. Peas and
barley in proportion of 1-3 is a good
grain-mixture. And don’t forget plenty
of good clean drinking water.
Co-operative Farming.
“K.Mc.”: In principle “Restoration”
(B. 26/10/’3B) is right—but! Twenty
farmers for each group would be too
many, entailing needless travelling. Four
to six would be better.
And who would be boss? If the same
one is appointed year after year he is
liable to become overbearing. If the job
is taken in turn, or, where the farms are
individually owned, each man boss on
his own, there would usually be one, at
least, incapable of handling men and his
partners would want to disband.
The next generation multiplies the
problems. The boss might engage his
16-year-old son. His partners then insist
on theirs being employed. Control and
instruction of these lads would provide
a constant source of friction. Co-opera-
tive efforts on the land mostly disband
as soon as the partners are financial
enough to continue individually. Even
family-worked farms are obliged to dis-
solve partnership when a father dies and
his sons seek their share in the business.
Discarded Wheats.
“A.A.D.”: The N.S.W. Agricultural
Department has adopted a bold “fewer-
and-belter” policy in the annual revision
of the list of recommended wheat
varieties. Nabawa, Baringa, Yandilla
King and Gresley have been thrown into
the discard.
The net result is that the number of
hall-marked bread wheats has been re-
duced to ten, five of which are endorsed
only for special limited areas. Farmers
are advised to concentrate mainly on
Ford, Dundee, Bencubbin, Gular and
Geeralying, with Pusa 4 as the best of
the strong-flour types,
Five years ago Nabawa was first favor-
ite with farmers, the area sown being
U 35.700 acres ' Las < harvest il ranked
th * rcl with 844,800 acres. It is super-
«ded Bencubbin, which is similar in
maturity, disease-resistance and all other
characters and is more productive under
most conditions
Bannga is withdrawn following millers
objections that it is difficult to gust and
1S subject to mottling. No variety is
suggested in its place in the areas for
which it was previously listed. Yandilla
King and Gresley, two of the most popu-
]al - dual-purpose varieties ten years or
so a go s do no t measure up to present-day
requirements, which are better repre-
sented in Ford,
{“Land” continued on page 44.)


BE COOL THIS SUMMER
IN SANDALS
sd
I6n
PER PAIR.
Suit your footwear to the weather. Do away with hot, tired feet in summer-
time by wearing Sandals.
They're sensible and comfortable; just the thmgs to wear to give you ease
and comfort. And as they are Abbey Sandals they would give long, true wear.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
SOME BBIIBMHM
iurwb
pi
K
4
IF
PERSONAL
ATTENTION.
THE WONDER BOARD OF A
+*
*0
*
f
mm
'
■ ■
!!i 111
111 111
111 111
111 311
a
in ill ii
e m
1000 USES
fO*
HI
It costs no more to build
the walls and rool of a poultry shed,
or any other outhouse with Masonite
than it does to use less satisfactory
materials. The cost per year of such
a house is less because it costs no
more in the first place, costs less for
upkeep and gives many more years
of service.
Masonite —all-wood grainless, white-
ant-proof boards of amazing dura-
bility—are now available in Aus-
tralia in i"r 3/16”, \ and 5/16 thick-
nesses and a wide range of sizes.
CANE-ITE
Ensure a CONSTANT temperature
for your Poultry house by insulating
it with CANE-ITE, the economical,
vermin-proof ALL-CANE insulation.
Samples and booklet on request.
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD • PRESDWOOD • QUARTRBOARD • TEMPRTILE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane ■
Materials Division)
elaide Perth
M. 15.8
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. King St.. Sydney
GIVES TO UN3EWERED AREAS
one of the Amenities of City Life.
Approved by the Board of Healtb.
No Stench, Flies or Germs. •
No water supply
required. Can be
installed where
septic tank is not
practicable. The
most widely used
system in A’asia.
In Homes,
Schools,
etc. Shell Oil Co.
60 repeat orders.
Bank of N.S.W.
15. Any handyman
can install them.
Automatic. No emptying. Write for pamphlet.
Price, £l5/10/- Sydney. Agents all States.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR,
Hygeia Sanitary Company Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.B.W.
fs
New Wheat Possibilities.
“Nabawa”: A new wheat, Eureka,
evolved by S. L. Maclndoe, plant-
breeder, at Glen Innes (N.S.W.), has done
well in field trials this season after six
years’ work, in which the North-west
Wheat Improvement Association co-
operated. It is being grown in the Tam-
worth, Gunnedah and Delungra districts.
Eureka now promises to be of great
value to wheatgrowers in the north-west.
To what other sections of the wheat belt
it may extend has yet to be demonstrated.
It combines immunity from stem rust
with high flour strength, good yield capa-
city and ability to finish well in harvest-
ing. A mid-season variety, it fills a gap
between the sowing of Ford at the end
of April and Geeralying and Gular at
the end of May. Of special significance
is its ability to withstand both dry and
wet conditions during the maturing period
and to ripen a plump sample. The grain
is dark in color, similar to Dundee.
It is expected that some 3000 bushels
of seed from the field-trial areas will be
available to farmers in two- to three-
bushel lots, to place it on as many farms
as possible.
“B. Cubbin”: North-western N.S.W.
wheatgrowers this season have had an
eye on the performances of four new
varieties—Eureka, Hofed 1., Fedweb I.
and Fedweb 111.
Hofed I. and Fedweb I. and 111. were
evolved by Dr. Waterhouse, and have
already appeared on nor’-west farms.
They’re late-maturers with a high rust-
resistance, and are designed to replace
Ford for early sowing, though they will
have to prove themselves.
Trial plots on H. I. Clarke’s farm at
Myall Creek showed the Hofed slightly
superior ; at J. H. Yorke’s farm at Castle
Mt. a yield of 24 bushels an acre is ex-
pected from all three varieties. But in
the north-west 18 R.A.S. championship
crops this season averaged over 42
bushels an acre. No fewer than 441
farmers entered crops in districts from
North Star south to Scone and west to
Baradine. Ford filled the first three
places.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sandy”: To get rid of a carcass
which cannot be burnt or buried, open
the belly from brisket to tail and dump
a bag of burnt lime in it. Spread an-
other bag over the hide.
“A.Y.”: It’s time to bury the fiction
that sump oil is no use as a preservative
for farm harness. Strain the oil. Leave
the harness and oil out in the hot sun
for a couple of hours and then apply
with a worn paint brush. Leave the
harness in the sun and allow the oil to
soak in. If applied fortnightly, the
harness straps become as soft as chamois
leather.
“Wattamalla”: If the spot where you
split your posts is on a hillside above
the road or snig-track, shoot them down
on a length of No. 8 plain wire. Anchor
each end to a tree or log, allowing the
“ropeway” to hang in a big slack bend
—BOO feet long. Longer if you like ; the
slacker it is the bigger weight the wire
will carry. Staple the posts lightly near
each end and let the load race down the
wire. As it hits the bottom anchor the
staples will fly out and the posts pile up
in a rough heap. The cable will stretch
a little, so have the ends so that you
can take up slack occasionally. I’ve
sent up to scwt. loads down these wires
and used them for getting firewood, rails
and bundles of small stuff. With the
last use hooks to suspend the load.
Such a “flying-fox” can be rigged in half
an hour on the roughest hillside. It
can be taken to the next heap in rather
less time.
“Jordan”: Kerosene-operated refriger-
ators which burn for a short period
(about two hours in the 24) can be fired
with wood to give quite satisfactory
results. Get an empty one-gallon sheep-
dip tin ; slit it lengthwise down one side
and open up with a gap about three
inches wide. The two wings will allow
the tin to fit snugly in the lamp recess.
Punch holes in the bottom half to allow
plenty of air into the brazier. Fire with
chips and small wood —any clean,
bright-burning wood will do. A pair of
tongs is necessary to handle the brazier.
Add a little wood every quarter of an
hour or thereabouts and burn for 2}
hours. About three-quarters of a kero-
sene-tin of loosely-packed wood will be
needed for each firing. Always remove
brazier when finished, and don’t let the
fire die out under the refrigerator.
“Nothung”: Latest method of lan-
tana destruction advocated by the
Queensland Agricultural Department is
to use arsenic pentoxide solution —-21b.
to 1 gallon of water —applied by means
of a power plant and spraying nozzle
attached to a good length of hose. Ex-
periments show a 100 per cent. kill. If
lantana is dense try a solution of lib. to
the gallon of water sprayed lightly over
the tops. Plants should be fired when
dead. When the regrowth is Ift. high, it
should be sprayed with the 21b. solution.
Where lantana is scattered, a knapsack
spray could be used, and butts only
sprayed with the 21b. solution. Cost
should not exceed 30s. an acre of dense
growth.
“Mulyan”: Next to mulga, the best of
the acacias for stockfeeding is mother-
embung ( Acacia cheelii). In drought
times between Glen Innes and Boggabri
(N.S.W.) cattle have put on condition
with nothing else but the lopped
branches. When the leaves and twigs
have been eaten, sheep and horses will
tear the bark off the larger limbs. The
tree carries dense silvery-green foliage
from near the gound to the top ; the
leaves are soft and sappy. For quick
germination the seeds must be soaked for
a couple of hours in hot water before
planting.
“Jayem”: Fat-lamb raisers on the N.
S. Wales southern tablelands have proved
the value of pasture improvement in in-
creasing carrying capacity. In October
R. Cowley, of Moss Vale, shore 735 ewes
and was carrying 500 lambs, five horses
and three head of cattle as well on 317
acres of perennial rye grass, white and
subterranean clover pasture, topdressed
annually with superphosphate. During
the summer the farm carried up to 1400
sheep. On 202 acres of similar pasture
in the same district J. D. Crawford car-
ried 460 grown sheep, nine horses and
10 head of cattle through the winter.
.Summer carrying capacity was 600 grown
sheep, 350 lambs, nine horses and 16
head of cattle.
“Yeno Ham”: A. F. Gray, N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture expert on
pigs, has been looking at Tasmania and
found it offered great prospects for
Dennis. Cheap fodders could be grown,
and, although the season was a bit short
for lucerne, improved pastures would
provide splendid grazing. Breeds favored
are Berkshires, Tamworths, Large and
Middle Whites, and some good types have
been obtained from the mainland in
recent years. Gray has made a report
to the Speck Agricultural Department.
“Angora”: The twelve bob per head
for mohair shorn from wild Angora
goats (B. 26/10/’3B) shows the pos-
sibilities of Angoras on a large
scale. Unlike wool, mohair fluctuates
little in price, and the world’s supply of
quality hair has been and still is insuf-
ficient to meet the demand. Thousands
of square miles of coastal country in
Victoria and N.S.W. would prove highly
adaptable for the grazing of Angoras,
which thrive in country where other
stock could not exist.
“Yarrunga”: Official testers of im-
ported seeds say that carrot weed is a
common impurity in red clover seed
from M.L. The farmer should insist
always upon being supplied with
machine-cleaned clover seed. Carrot weed
is appearing in many N.S.W. coastal and
tableland dairying districts. It imparts
an objectionable taint to butter and
cheese that cannot be eliminated by any
present-day process of treatment in
manufacture.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
An eye disease in fowls comes under the
upper lid like a grain of corn —yellow and
cheesy—and can be expelled when ripe, but
fills up again. Matter seems to fill up along
passages from nose, and can be expelled.
Diagnosis and treatment wanted? —51370.
It is either infectious catarrh or green-feed
deficiency disease. Neither responds to any
great extent to treatment. Birds affected with
infectious catarrh should be kept in isolation.
Ample £reen feed should be given. If not
available, 2 p.c. of a good grade of cod liver
oil should be incorporated in the daily ration.
* * * *
Read that blackberry is a pest in Maoriland.
What has been done towards clearing
it? —SI 193.
Blackberry is common right throughout the
North Island and on the west coast of the South
Island and in the Nelson district. Its spreading
root system makes eradication difficult, and it
is spread by seed dropped by birds. Where
ploughing is possible blackberry can be cleared
out; other methods are only temporarily suc-
cessful. Burning and grubbing are the means
most employed. Angora goats are used with
some success. Poisoning by spraying with ar-
senical and chlorate preparations has pro-
duced some satisfactory results. Fungoid and
insect parasites on the whole have not stood
up to tests.


j3t¥ NO SUV
SMNNta 3 HI
a
$
2
3
k
k -
KEEN PLEASURE, with Tooheys Pilsener up
(colors: Amber body, White cap), leads the
field in the Good Health Stakes.
When ordering
Pilsener say
TOOHEYS Pilsener
TOOHEYS
PILSENER
here's
TOEE
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents: victoria*.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


dsf
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Baying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• FREELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written 1
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . .You learn
how to Write and how your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Returned soldier (51), exp. station cook-baker,
wants job anywhere. Award. Urgent. —1539.
Electric welder wants work anywhere. —1623.
Young Diesel student, exp. as fitter, intend-
ing to take the marine course, wants job
urgently.—ls 37.
Opening for second bi-weekly paper in southern
N.S.W. coastal town. Information available
to persons prepared to finance on co-operative
or other lines. —1532.
Words of a parody on “Mademoiselle from
Armentieres” dealing with the adventures of
two big-game hunters. —1648.
Words of verse containing “ ’E may be a
germ wiv the ’eart of a worm, but, blast 'im,
ain’t ’e a man?”—l6so.
Words of “The Village Pump,” action song
sometimes given at school concerts. —1618.
Information Sought.
(1) Who composed the music for “God Save
the King”? (2) Who wrote the words? (3)
When was it first sung as the British National
Anthem ? —1647.
(1) Earliest English appearance of anything
like it is a four-note exercise by Dr. John
Bull, published in 1619. Purcell, who was
composer to the King, turned out something
similar in 1682 and Oswald, a Scottish
musician, and Henry Carey both produced the
air in its present state in 1740. Carey’s
claim is the most strongly substantiated. Other
rumors have it that the air came from France.
(2) Unknown. There is a theory that they are
a translation of a French chanson
by the Mother Superior of the Convent of St.
Cyr as a thanksgiving for the recovery from
illness of Louis XIV. (3) The custom of using
it to indicate the conclusion of proceedings
seems to have started on the same night at
concerts held at Drury Lane and Covent
Garden in September, 1745, when the song
in duet form was introduced at the end of
each programme.
$ sjs * ♦
(1) Did Pierpont Morgan save the U.S.A.
from bankruptcy ? (2) Did the U.S.A. have a
“fiduciary” currency after the Civil War? (3)
Has there been a free coinage of silver in the
U.S.A. recently? —l624.
(1) Not exactly; during the panic of 1893
Morgan sold the Treasury 65,166,000 dollars’
worth of gold in return for '4 p.c. bonds, 30
years’ currency, of a face value of 62,315,000
dollars, in effect paying 104 for them. It eased
an awkward strain on the gold reserve, but
Morgan made a good bargain, as the bonds
were quoted shortly after the sale at 112£. (2)
There was a “greenback”, note issue backed
only by the credit of the “Federal Administra-
tion. A movement to retire this currency in
the year after the war was checked by an agri-
cultural depression. The “greenbacks,” how-
ever, were not legal tender for State taxes or
for debts specifically repayable in coin until
1871. It was enacted by a dying Republican
Administration that specie payments should be
resumed on January 1, 1879. The “greenback”
currency was contracted. From 1873-78 the
country was in a bad state, and in May, ’7B,
it was found necessary to stop the contracting
process. Trade returned with a rush, and by
1874 the Treasury’s gold reserve was 113 mil-
lion dollars in excess of matured liabilities, and
“greenbacks” were at a par with gold. The
issue was never again a cause for anxiety.
(3) Not since the Civil War.
* * » *
Are Maoriland railways all under the one
control ? —1650.
Railway ownership and control in M.L. are
recognised as a national concern, and practically
the whole of the system is owned by the State
and controlled by the Railways Department.
In certain cases, however, the Local Railways
Act of 1914 empowers the Governor-General
to declare a local railway district and to
authorise construction by a local railway board
elected by the ratepayers of the district. The
Government must be satisfied that the railway
is essential and that the construction of main
arterial roads would be costly and difficult.
Probable success of the enterprise must also
be assured. The gauge of the line must be
the same as for Government railways, and
the Government may enter into an agreement
with the board stipulating that any Govern-
ment trains or rolling-stock may be run over
the board’s line. A power of purchase, sub-
ject to 12 months’ notice, is also given to the
Government. At present there is only one
local railway district in M.L.
* * * *
How has the N.S.W. basic wage (male) varied
over the last 20 years? —1626.
On Feb. 16, 1914, it was £2 Bs.; Dec. 17,
1915, £2 12s. 6d.; Aug. 18, 1916, £2 15s. 6d.;
Sept. 5, 1918, £3; Oct. 8, 1919, £3 175.; Oct.
8, 1920, £4 55.; Oct. 8, 1921, £4 25.; May 12,
1922, £3 18s.; April 10, 1923, £3 195.; Sept.
7, 1923, £4 25.; Aug. 24, 1925, £4 45.; June
27, 1927, £4 55.; Dec. 20, 1929, £4 2s. 6d.;
Aug. 26, 1932, £3 10s.; April 11, 1933, £3 Bs.
6d.; Oct. 20, 1933, £3 6s. 6d.; April 26, 1934,
£3 7s. 6d.; April 18, 1935, £3 Bs. 6d.; April
24, 1936, £3 95.; Oct. 27, 1936, £3 10s.; April
24, 1937, £3 11s. 6d. In Oct., 1937, the basic
wage for Wollongong, Sydney, Port Kembla
and Newcastle was £3 18s.; in March, 1938,
£3 195.; Sept., 1938, £4. As from December,
1938, the rate will be £4 Is. In other parts of
the State 3s. less in each case.
* * * *
(1) What provisions were made in the early
days to return from Australia to England con-
victs whose sentences had expired? (2) Was
any provision made to bring their families to
Australia ? —1649.
(1) None; those who returned to England
either paid their way or worked their passage,
or, in the case of some women, returned as
companions or wives of members of the ships’
crews. (2) None at first, but in 1812 the com-
mittee on transportation recommended that
facilities be made, and an experimental group
of 10 women was sent out. The Governor
was instructed to receive applications from
convicts or emancipists who were in a posi-
tion to support a wife and family, and a
number of lists were forwarded to England,
but the authorities were dubious about the
scheme, >vhich does not seem to have developed
to any extent.
* * * sk
What types of aircraft are used by the
R.A.A.F ? —1622.
Landplanes: D.H. Moth (Gipsy engine), Bristol
Bulldog (Jupiter engine), Westland Wapiti
(Jupiter engine), Hawker Demon (Kestrel V
engine), Avro Cadet (Gannet engine), and Avro
Anson (Cheetah IX engine). Seaplanes: Super-
marine Southampton flying-boats (two 450-h.p.
Napier Lion engines) and Supermarine Sea-
gull boat amphibians (Bristol Pegasus engine).
* * * *
What are the chances of employment for an
unskilled laborer in Darwin ? Living con-
ditions ? —1625.
Pretty poor; what work is offering is being
carried out mainly by contractors who have
brought their labor from other States. Ac-
commodation is expensive and confined mainly
to four hotels and one lodging-house. Write
to the Department of the Interior, Canberra,
or to the Government Secretary, Darwin.
* * * *
Method of resilvering mirrors ? —1289.
Very difficult for an amateur. Carefully
clean the bare portion of the glass by rubbing
it gently with fine cotton wool, removing any
trace of dust or grease. With the point of a
sharp penknife cut round, on the back of an-
other piece of mirror, a section slightly larger
than the shape and size required for the patch.
Upon it place a drop of mercury—the size of
a pin-head being sufficient for about half a
square inch. It will spread immediately, pene-
trating the amalgam to where it was severed
with the knife, and the patch may then be
lifted and removed to where required. A
tricky and delicate operation. Press lightly
with cotton wool and the patch will harden at
once and make a perfect repair. Old mirrors
of poor quality which become browned and
patchy are beyond repair and must be com-
pletely cleaned and resilvered. A sheet of
pure tinfoil slightly larger than the glass to
be silvered is spread evenly on a perfectly
plain table which has a raised edge and which
is well cleaned of dust and impurities. Foil
must be free from slightest flaw or crack.
Cover it uniformly to a depth of |in. with
mercury, preferably that containing a slight
proportion of tin from previous silvering. The
glass, freed from all dust and marks and well
polished, is slid carefully over the mercury.
This job needs great skill and experience and
is sometimes bungled by the best of workmen.
If there is the slightest bubble or scratch the
operation must be repeated and the tinfoil is
lost —a considerable expense. The glass plate
is then loaded with weights to press out excess
mercury, which can be collected and used again.
After 24 hours the mirror is lifted and placed
against a wall and left to drain.
* * * *
Particulars of the N.S.W. Government sub-
sidised-training scheme ? —1499.
Scheme is to enable unemployed men be-
tween 19 and 25 to be employed in skilled
trades either as indentured or trainee appren-
tices. Training will extend over four years; less
if trainee has had previous experience. Scheme
will cover all trades in the State in which
apprenticeship obtains except butchering, where
the butcher is covered by a Federal award,
and in all awards which provide for apprentice-
ship either as indentured or trainee apprentices.
In the printing and clothing trades only in-
dentured apprentices may be taken, and the
scheme in so far as the clothing trade is con-
cerned applies only to the tailoring section.
Relevant weekly amounts will be paid to trainees
by employers, who will be recouped by the
N.S.W. Department of Labor and Industry.
Apart from rates of pay, period of training
and ages of trainees, all prevailing award con-
ditions will apply. Married trainees discharged
through slack times will be provided with day
training at technical colleges until returned to
their jobs, and will receive £1 Bs. per week;
single trainees £1 4s. per week. Trainee’s
earnings will not affect food relief or relief
work for his parents. Rates of pay are: 19
years, first year £2, second year £2 17s. 6d., third
year £3 155., fourth year £4; 20 years, same
as 19, except for £3 18s. in third year; 21
years, same as 20, except for £2 10s. in first
year and £3 18s. in second; 22 years and over,
same as 21, except for £3 18s. in first year.
For further information apply to the Depart-
ment of Labor and Industry, Sydney.
* * * *
Method of giving an ivory finish to plaster
casts ? —1627.
To every pound of plaster add ioz. of yellow
ochre, and when the cast is dry dip into sperma-
ceti and hang up to drip. When the spermaceti
is ' nearly dry but still sticky tie some fine
yellow ochre in a muslin bag and dust on to
the cast. Highlights or prominent parts are
wiped with soft, clean linen or cotton wool;
the grain or spots in old ivory are suggested
by dabbing or stippling with small brushes on
which the hair has been short and wide apart.
If cast is large and cannot be dipped in sperma-
ceti warm both and brush spermaceti quickly
and evenly over it, ensuring that there is no
caking. For a new ivory effect the plaster
is made with clean, cold water to which a little
glue-water has been added. The cast is dried
in the open air, heated in an oven, and when
quite warm it is soaked for a quarter of an
hour in equal parts of white wax, spermaceti
and stearine heated a little beyond melting-
point. Hang up and allow surplus wax-mixture
to drain off, and before it is quite cool brush
the wax from crevices with a small stiff brush.
When quite cold finish by polishing with
cotton wool.
* * * *
Is arrowroot grown in Australia ? 1646.
Yes, mainly in Queensland. In 1861 there
were 14 acres under production: in 1921 968
acres, with a record production of 14,619 tons;
865 acres produced 10,204 tons, worth about
£1 per ton, in 1936. Crop is grown mainly
in the Logan-Southport section of the More-
ton Division, and a smaller amount in the
Gympie section of the Wide Bay Division.
It is marketed by an Arrowroot Board. Flour
from the bulbs has a limited market, mainly
in the other States, and there have been in-
creasing sales outside the pool to clear stocks
at lower than pool prices, which fell from
£32 2s. 6d. per ton in 1932 to £22 16s. Bd.
per ton in 1936. About 6000-7000 tons of
bulbs are milled under the board’s control,
producing about 10 p.c. their weight in flour.
* * * *
Words of verse containing the lines:
... .stretched her gleaming neck
Like a rush-imbedded swan.
Something about the author? —1629.
They are from “Goblin Market,” by Chris-
tina G. Rossetti (1830-94). She was born in
London, and was the sister of Dante Gabriel
Rossetti. Her poems have a grace and sweet-
ness attributed to her acquaintance with Italian
and a color sometimes attributed to her associa-
tion with pre-Raphaelite painters. Ihe com-
plete verse reads:
l-aura stretched her gleaming neck
Like a rush-imbedded swan,
lake a lily from the beck,
Like a moonlit poplar branch,
Like a vessel at the launch
When its last restraint is gone.
* * * *
(1) What is rosin ? (2) In the manufacture
of what goods is ordinary American “G” rosin
used ? —1466.
(1) Resins constitute a class of vegetable or,
rarely, animal products which are solid or
semi-solid, insoluble in water, but generally
soluble in alcohol, ether and volatile oils. They
are often left by the spontaneous evaporation
of oleoresinous juices which exude either natu-
rally or by incision from trunks of trees. Most
common is colophony, or rosin, which remains
after volatile oil has been removed by dis-
tillation from oleoresins —the crude turpen-
tines which exude from various species of coni-
ferae. In America various pine trees are tapped
each year and the rosins obtained are classed
according to color. Rosin obtained from the
first year’s tapping is of the lighter grades,
“X,” “WW,” “WG,” “N” to “K.” In the
next season darker rosins are obtained, includ-
ing grades “I,” “H” and “G.” Rosins obtained
in successive seasons are darker still, darkest
grades being known as “A” and “B.” (2)
Its principal use is as an ingredient in various
varnishes. Dissolved in alkali to form a resin
soap it is used in the manufacture of some
of the cheaper grades of soap. It is also used
as caulking for ships, for cement, as a metal-
soldering flux, and in pharmacy it enters into
many ointments and plasters, particularly for
veterinary use. Soluble compounds are used
for sizing paper.
* * * *
In cricket, what are the definitions of “bowl-
ing crease,’’ “popping crease’’ and “return
crease” ? —1531.
The “bowling crease” is a line drawn level
with the stumps Bft. Bin. long, with a return
crease at each end at right angles behind the
wicket. (The stumps are set in the centre of
the bowling crease line.) The “popping crease”
is a line marked four feet from the bowling
crease, parallel to it and unlimited in length.
The “return crease” runs at each end of the
bowling crease behind the wicket and is un-
limited in length.
* * * m
During the recent Australian XI tour there
were suggestions that Australians in England
might be given a game in Tests and replace
injured players. What are the Board of Control
rules regarding such qualifications? —ls33.
The laws decided by the Imperial Cricket
Conference are: (2) A cricketer can be quali-
fied to play in a Test match either by birth
or residence. (3) ( a ) Qualification by Birth. —
A cricketer, unless debarred by the Imperial
Cricket Conference, is always eligible to play
for the country of his birth. ( b ) Qualification
by Residence. —A cricketer, unless debarred by
the Imperial Cricket Conference, shall be en-
titled to play for any country in which he is
residing and has been residing during the four
immediately preceding years, provided that he
has not played for the country of his birth
during that period, (c) Notwithstanding any-
thing hereinbefore contained any player who
has once played for any country in a Test match
shall not afterwards be eligible to play in a
Test match against that country without the
consent of the Board of Control.
* * * *
What were the bowling figures of Collins
and Gregory with the A.I.F. team in England,
S’Africa and Australia? —1023.
Overs. Mdns. Runs. Wkts. Av.
In England"—
Collins .. 728.5 164 1755 106 16.55
Gregory .. 830 124 2383 131 18.19
In S’Africa —
Collins .. 317.5 97 644 39 16.51
Gregory .. 227 50 575 47 12.25
In Australia —
Collins .. 70 8 225 5 45,00
Gregory .. 87.3 17 283 19 14.89
Brief Answers.
C.J.M.: L. Hutton (Yorkshire) was born on
June 23, 1916; J. Hardstaff (Nottinghamshire)
on July 3, 1911; and W. Edrich (Middlesex)
on March 26, 1916. Fleetwood-Smith took
most wickets with the 1934 Australian XI in
England (119, averaging 18.06) i O’Reilly’s
bag was 118 at 16.12... .W.W.E.: There are
about 300 different kinds of water-lilies, of
which 50 are termed “Chinese.” They are
propagated either from small growths at the
sides of the plants or from seed. Suggest you
send sample to Gill and Searle, Melbourne,
for their advice... .C.H.: Telegraphists are re-
cruited from the permanent staff of the Post
Office, who have to pass a prescribed examina-
tion. To join the permanent staff, it is neces-
sary to sit for examination for positions such
as telegraph messenger, lineman, mechanic or
clerk. Particulars of such examinations may be
obtained from the Deputy Director of Posts
and Telegraphs, Sydney... .D.F.: The octane
ratings of different petrols on the Australian
market vary slightly from time to time and from
shipment to shipment. Accordingly, if samples
were taken in Melbourne at any particular time,
the octane ratings of the different brands would
vary slightly from those of a set of samples
taken in Sydney... .A.K.: The surfboard
should be made of well-seasoned, completely-
dried and coarse-grained redwood; length 9ft.
minimum, width 2ft. in widest part, Ift. 6in.
at stern; depth, a third of the centre of the
board to be 3in. thick, tapering to the bow
and stern, edges to be rounded. The board
should be varnished, not painted... .8.M.: It
is quite usual for large engineering and metal-
working factories in New South Wales to
employ men for fitting and adjusting machinery
on Saturday afternoon and Sunday, as these
are frequently the only practicable times for
maintenance and repair work... .Hexham:
Once a cricket match has begun the game is
under control of the umpires, and all fair
and unfair play and disputes are determined
by them. The captains are entitled to consult
them and ask their ruling on any decision
during the match... .L.E.A.: Write to Mauri
Brothers and Thomson, 61 York-street, Syd-
ney, regarding machinery; to Alfred Lawrence
and Co., 439 Kent-street, Sydney, regarding
essences and ingredients; and to Australian
Glass Co., Dowling-street, Waterloo, regarding
bottles... .M.F.S.: Have not heard of the
mixture. Spray with Cooper’s cattle dip (I to
300) once in 14 days, scrape the horse down
and do not work him on that day... .R.H.R.:
Points for debating are generally allocated—
matter 40 marks, manner 45, method 25. The
Debater’s Handbook, obtainable from the
N.S.W. Bookstall Co L.T.: It’s pretty, but
that’s not enough. Tell him to read Yeats,
Auden and De la Mare... .G.L.: Part-time
instruction in cooking and table service is pro-
vided at the East Sydney Technical College,
Darlinghurst. Make personal application to
the sub-registrar at the college... .N.J.H.MacD.:
Take a course of instruction either for a Uni-
versity degree in engineering or a Technical Col-
lege diploma. Enrol in the correspondence
courses in diploma preparatory mathematics,
English and mechanics, together with trade
drawing, provided by the Sydney Technical
College R.M.S.: The tenant cannot compel
the landlord to repair the drain, but the local
health authorities may do so. The landlord
is at liberty to raise rent by giving due notice of
his intention to the tenant. If the tenant re-
fuses to pay the increased rental she must quit
the premises. The Fair Rents Court, to which
appeal might have been made, no longer exists.
C.B.: Write to him that unless he com-
pletes his contract you will place the matter in
the hands of your solicitor, claiming damages
sustained by the delay. If he still holds up the
job do so. He has no claim to any material
bought by you... .Anon : He should make per-
sonal application through the bank’s staff de-
partment, head office building, Sydney, or
through any branch manager of the bank.
Qualifications include a creditable pass in the
intermediate, including English and mathe-
matics 1. Commencing salary is £9O p.a
R.N.: Story probably arose from the fact that,
according to its report, the London Mint struck
no English pence in 1933. In Australia over
five million pennies were struck S.E.J.: (1)
Every agency varies according to the nature
of the business conducted outside the selling of
newspapers. (2) Financial assistance can be
obtained through the association on an approved
agency. (3) 25 p.c. of total purchase price
C.J.: The eggs of most breeds of ducks other
than muscovies take 28 days to hatch. Mus-
covy eggs take 35 days... .8.J.R.: Before
taking legal action in the matter you should
ask the architect to have the defects remedied.
In any action for negligence it would be
necessary to show conclusively that he agreed
to supervise the building and failed to exercise
adequate care in doing so. Avoid litigation, if
possible, as the issue would be uncertain and
you might be cast in costs... .H.H.: She should
use the surname of her last husband. To
do otherwise might cause doubt and confusion.
The change in name would not affect the
validity of her claim as regards residence, but
deception of any kind might have serious con-
sequences P.M.S.: The bank was justified
in not paying the cheque. At law the drawer
of it could have disputed payment by the bank
and very likely it would have had to bear the
loss E.H.D.: (1) A. F. Bassett Hull, Queens-
cliff-road, Manly (N.S.W.), or care J. H. Smyth,
114 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. (2) £2 for the
two volumes, which are not sold separately,
from Stanley Gibbons, 391 Strand, London,
W.C.2 J.D.: Conditions governing submis-
sion of entries for the Archibald Prize for
1938 are obtainable from National Art Gallery
of N.S.W. All works must be delivered free
of cost at the gallery on or before December
31, 1938, and competitors must supply with
their entry written permission to allow their
work to be reproduced in newspapers.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
Iflll
%
%
H
*0
'e
to
BEST*
BRITISH
BLADE
dsf
[ > _SoU^^«nUj_JCUBERT^>^Jgug£RT
SHE WAS A HOMAN
POISON FACTORY
Full of Uric Acid and Unable
to Move.
]f all your joints were so stiff with uric acid
that you thought yourself fortunate even to be
able to sit all day in a chair, you would do
anything to get well. This woman had all
her teeth out—.but still she suffered, until she
took Kruschen. She writes:
“I have been taking Kruschen Salts for three
months. When I started, I had rheumatism
in both knees. They were very swollen—just
like puddings. 1 could not rise from a chair
without assistance and to go upstairs was agony.
I have been into hospital and had my teeth
extracted. Afterwards I started taking Kruschen.
Now I can run upstairs and kneel as much as
1 like. I have just got another bottle of
Kruschen —after taking a dose I can work like
a horse.” —(Mrs.) H.S.
Rheumatic conditions are the result of an
excess of uric acid in the body. Two of the
ingredients of Kruschen Salts have the power
of dissolving uric acid crystals. Other ingredi-
ents of these Salts assist Nature to expel the
dissolved crystals through the natural channels.
“AWATEA”
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
ds
mm
r j&m
pi
m
7/
m.
%him 9
m-l'
m
-
FROM the huge annealing fur-
naces in Lysaght's Mills, the
iron emerges fitted for whatever
may be demanded of it. It is this
care at vital stages of its produc-
tion which ensures the absolute
reliability of Lysaght # s Special
Tankmaking Iron, which is giving
unrivalled service and satisfaction
to users throughout Australia. This
iron is sold under a special guar-
antee, particulars of which can be
obtained from the manufacturers.
FREE —a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of useful
information for ironworkers, storekeepers, and
the man on the land. Write to John Lysaght
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Box 196 D„ G.P.0., Sydney.
In the annealing
furnaces under
rigid pyrometric
control, the grain
structure of the
metal is changed.
LYSAGHT
AUSTRALIA
TANK MAKING
LYSAGHT'S
SPECIAL
TANKMAKING
IRON
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
LT2
If any in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
P.G.R.: Still fails of a pass 5.8.: Not
that one... .F.T.L.: Liked neither Oswald nor
his corsets... .M.P.R.: “Argosy” was wrecked
on the second page... .N.P.R.: “The Mirror”
brought only unfavorable reflections... .G.8.D.:
A slight improvement, but still not up....
K.R.C.: Let’s hear from you when you have
something worth saying H.N.D.: An
old but unwelcome acquaintance 8.C.:
“Drunkard’s Delight” sent us hurrying out for
a stiff noggin... .E.A.S.: “Crazy Honeymoon”
struck us that way, too E.R.M.: Too late.
N.G.: Seen it before A.M.: Not quite.
....P.M.: “Payment in Full” draws no
cheque... .J.l .B.: We gave up trying to grasp
your meaning after the third reading....
xr'PiV'' ot diat one ’ don’t give up....
N P.R.: Excellent typing.... B.P.P. (Albury):
Many thanks. Culprit won’t have another
chance... .G.D.P.: Other persons say twice
as much in half the space 8.T.D.: You’re
wasting our time N.8.F.: Doesn’t make a
yarn C.V.S.: What is it all about?....
L.h.S.: Don’t know where you’d place it
N.8.C.: Won’t have that damsel “snaking
her hips” on these premises D.E.R.: Idea
is good, but treatment dreadful 8.R.C.:
We do not buy serials by separate instalments.
L.N.S.: No syndicated matter, thank you.
....8.C.R.: Cut, and try a daily 8.R.F.:
This week’s worst R.S.D.: Carefully
packed “Fragile” and placed it in the hands of
the P.M.G K.L.Y.: Now think of some-
thing original V.F.: “Invalid” recuperat-
ing in the w.p.b P.L.W.: An old, old story.
. ...J.N.V.: No use for plays... .H.R.E.: Too
many murders... .W.P.: Dealt sternly with
erring child and sent her home... .S.J.T.:
Might make a par C.F.R.: Your “attack”
developed into a disorderly retreat... .H.D.C.:
Dreadful V.C.S.: It would stand a better
chance if the last pages were attached....
L.C.: Sorry, but it left us speechless... .P.R.L.:
No use “storming at our gates” with a pea-
shooter. .. .T.N.L.: “Pay Dirt” mostly sand.
....M.D.A.: “Color” faint... .A.V.H.: Slight.
... .N.F.C., 8.D., P.T.E., G.C. and C.L.G.:
Try them elsewhere... .S.MacF.: Try a
women’s paper E.E.: Just as well this time
you “care not for silver or g01d”.... M.F.W.:
“Byre” means cowshed. Pyre is the word
you want... .E.M.E.: Don’t like the refrain.
....R.J.M.: It says nothing fresh... .J.McK.:
A watery brew.... M.McM.: McGinty still
sleeps.... M.H.: N 0.... W.H.S.: “Truth”
hasn’t got out of the we 11... .N. 8.: Glad to
hear it....A.M.: True, but it’s not a poem.
....Sober Youth: Your signature’s indecipher-
able... .E.W.S.: There’s no harm in them;
but are you sure the sun “blushes in its
gore”? ... .L.H.E.: “And if you grow tobacco
you’ll have mildew or blue mould.” You
mean, we hope, that the tobacco will
A.M.S.: Liked the ending.... M.A.L.: Too
down-at-heel .... D.MacL.: The Religious
Editor is edified, then A.8.C.: But it’s not
an epitaph 8.J.R.: Labored L.W.: “I
have seen the high and low ones hide their
faces in the street.” Like ostriches?....
N.R.C.: It’s been said so often... .G.S.C.:
“Flat” it is J.C.: Pretty, but that’s a 11....
P.L.K.: “Washin’ Dishes” is a sloppy job.
....E.B. and N.L.W.: Close.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.P.L.: Received, a collection of smudged
and dirty lines on Bristol board. Next time
use a fixative with charcoal drawings N. 8.:
Imitative... .J.R.G.: Now take lessons in per-
spective. .. .J.M.: If your models really look
like that you’d make more money exhibiting
them in a freak show H.H.: Gags are
whiskered... .C.R.N.: Yes, but Phil May made
a better job of it... .T.P.S.: Stick to wash....
G.C.: Fashion sketches L.D.S. :■ Table is
standing on one leg S.D.C.: What is it—a
map of Calithumpia? L.T.N.: What did
you use—treacle and a whitewash brush?....
G.S.D.: The office cat had convulsions after
inspecting that mouse N.J.F.: Wrestlers
look like a plate of spaghetti... .M.D.V.:
Aeroplanes or flying-fish? 8.D.: Send it
to your mother-in-law for a Christmas card.
. ...H.N.G.: Try us again in a few years’time.
S.B.N.: Water, carts, anything except
humorous drawings 8.T.: We’ll hang it on
the front door to welcome the landlord on his
next visit... .L.F.C.: Exhibit it only on dark
nights... . K.D.: Promising, yes.
A MIXED GRILL.
Sydney’s City Council, whose profit-
able electricity business was taken from
it and handed over to an alleged County
Council, learned the other day that the
County Council was about to tear up a
street which the city dads have had
resurfaced at a cost of £5OOO, having been
assured that the County Council wouldn’t
tear it up. “This sort of thing goes on
all over the place,” a city dad howled ;
and so it does, and nobody is ever sacked
for it. The County Council is more
likely to reward the responsible officah
with a rise.
* * * *
In August and September mortgage
business done in N. S. Wales showed a
noticeable swing from “4| p.c. or under”
rates. The volume transacted in this
category dropped to the lowest level for
some years. In the 4j-5 p.c. section the
quantity of mortgage business kept to
about an average ratio, but a much bigger
volume than usual passed into the 5-6
p.c. section. The war-scare and difficulty
in raising money from the trading banks
had a big influence. When October
figures are available an easier trend may
be apparent.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: With the price of
bread getting higher in jittery jumps, and
a constantly-increasing popular demand
for wheat germ and the rest, it should
pay someone to build a windmill and
grind old-fashioned flour where the
wheat grows. Modern windmills are
cheap and efficient —they cost nothing
for fuel and little for attention. First-
rate stone for mills is available in many
parts of Australia. A hundred years
ago all of Sydney’s flour was ground
through Australian stones at Miller’s
Point. Each of the two Sydney mills could
put a bushel through in 10 minutes,
equivalent to nearly two hundredweight
of flour per hour. A modern mill should
better this.
* * * *
From Macquarie-street, Sydney:
Tom Mutch has had his political ups and
downs, and experienced the caprices of leaders
as well as constituencies, but in the matter of
pay he has been rather lucky. An Assembly-
man for three years, 1917-20, at £5OO p.a., he
became a Minister in March, 1920, and in
November of that year salaries were raised all
round, those of members to £B7O. The Ministry
fell in April, 1922, and, all screws being reduced
by the new crowd, Mutch was a member
for three years at £6OO. Lang arrived in June,
1925; up went salaries again, and Mutch was
Minister for another two years, then member
for three more years—at £875 till April, 1930,
and £744 till September. Then he lost his seat,
and was out of the Assembly for nearly eight
years ; but he missed the remaining pay-cuts
to £706 in August, 1931, and £670 in December,
1932. He had been consoled with a life pass
over the railways y and he returned to the
Assembly at the end of June in the safe Coogee
seat vacated by the death of Minister Dun-
ningham. Now he can draw the £875 rate
from the first of July.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Some timely common-
sense concerning mental deficiency has
been uttered lately by Mrs. Alan
Murray (formerly Dr. Lucy Barling), just
back from a study of the subject in
Britain and Europe. She estimates the
number of mentally-defective people in,
Australia at about 50,000 of all grades.
About a third need institutional treat-
ment ; the remainder could be kept under
guardianship and supervision at much
less cost than the present system, and
could perform useful work in the com-
munity. The strain and rush of modern
life are responsible for many breakdowns
among people whose behavior would be
normal under quiet, well-ordered condi-
tions. Public opinion requires educating
to recognise that mental deficiency is not
a family stigma, something to be hushed
up or hidden away. It is a definite phy-
sical illness, just as much so as measles
or influenza, and most cases are'amen-
able to proper treatment.
* * * *
“Atrax”: This seems to be a record
season for bougainvilleas in Queensland,
in spite of unsuitable weather for bloom-
development. The rich purple of the
hardy Trailli is most in evidence, but the
soft pink of Thomasii, Mrs. Butt’s vivid
crimson and the scarlet and brick-red
varieties show up bravely. It is the most
adaptable of beauty plants, convertible
at will into a handsome flowering shrub
or tree, a brilliant and impenetrable
hedge, a screen of vivid color, a shady
arch or a romantic pergola. It
does not drop its leaves about, and, so
long as it gets plenty of sun, blooms
freely through the sub-tropic year or the
summer of temperate latitudes. Its
climatic adaptability is great —it is many
years since that botanic genius the late
William Guilfoyle acclimatised it in Vic-
toria—and I have seen it flowering over
a brick chimney in Hobart in summer as
it flowers at Thursday Island. Alas!
when the old wood fires gave way to a
gas stove the Hobart winter slew it.


fds
R E LATIV- ITY
f
Aunt Jemima (bless her heart)
Sent me two quaint ‘works of art’
Uncle Jim (who should know better)
Sent me views of Oodnadatta
Cousin Dora —foolish girl—
Sent some freak in mother-of-pearl
But John, who’s modern and enlightened
Sent a Gillette—my whole life’s brightened!
5
0?
<1
dsf
You can buy complete Gillette Sets from as little
as 1/9 up to 45/ each packed in a special,
gaily • coloured ''Christmas * Gift container.
BRITISH MADE-OF ALL DEALERS
dsf
At your request tee shall
be pleased to forward
Folder No. 99.
to
New Guinea
& Papua
Five weeks' tour of the South Sea Islands
crowded with a succession of pic-
turesque vistas, novel and amusing
incidents and the delights of a sea
voyage under the best conditions.
Numerous ports, with their coral lagoons,
palm-fringed beaches, quaint villages
and colourful native life, offer a never-
ending source of interest.
There are no hotel expenses—you live
on the vessel throughout. Fares are free
of exchange.
BURNS. PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY Telephone: 87901
TWO NOVEMBERS
BY “EKMEK BEY.”
WHEN the Great War broke out
Australia had just acquired an
air force. Its aeroplanes con-
sisted of two B.E. biplanes and
one box-kite fitted with a 50-h.p. Gnome
engine.
Four C.M.F. officers had been ordered
to step into these contraptions and learn
to fly them. Since they were one-seaters,
the would-be drivers went up alone and
taught themselves the job. There was no
floor underneath them, no fuselage, no
instrument, no revolution counter even.
Once strapped in, you knew when she
left or returned to the ground by the
bump. You guessed what the engine was
doing by the sound. You calculated your
angle of travel by the way the wind hit
you in the eye. In the nature of things,
it was reckoned that war would have
to be confined to the hours of the day
when there was no wind, since a decent
breeze was apt to tear the machines in
halves.
In those days nobody ever tried to
loop the loop for the simple reason that
nobody could be sure that the whole
machine would do it at once.
Fortified with experience in these
mechanical birds, four officers, with 50
men, were picked out to go to Mesopo-
tamia as the first Australian half-flight
after war broke out. One of those
officers was a pale-faced young man with
a slight limp, due to a broken ankle,
known to hjs familiars as “Little
Tommy” White.
Landed safely in Basra, early in 1915,
he was equipped with a machine and
an observer and set the sort of simple
tasks fitted for a nervous “colonial.” The
machine was a Maurice Farman, with
engine which was not quite new and had
an uncertain past. In clear weather the
’plane had a range of 150 miles at all
of 45 miles an hour. The observer was
one Yeats-Brown, of the Indian Army,
later known as the author of Bengal
Lancer.
Their simple tasks consisted chiefly
in flying over the Turkish lines armed
with a rifle (when they did not forget it)
and checking, between the shrapnel
bursts, the terrain with the map.
Once when they were 5000 ft. over the
arch of Ctesiphon the engine failed. They
came to earth within the Turkish lines and
with a favorite camp, on whose 2000 men
they had dropped many a bomb, between
them and home. As, however, the
engine was turning over feebly, Mr
White started for home —and got there
over 15 miles of the ruins of Babylonian
suburbs in Turkish hands.
When they had enjoyed six months of
this sort of excitement they volunteered
to isolate Bagdad by blowing up the
telegraph line which led to Turkey. To
perform this simple feat they merely
had to fly 60 miles out, putting the city
between them and their hangar, come to
earth beside a road busy with Turkish
military traffic, festoon a few posts and
wires with guncotton wreaths, light a
match and fly home. The pair thought
they should do this “as our engine had
been running quite well recently and we
were both single men.” The day on
which they accepted the task was Novem-
ber 8, 1915'; the day on which it was
to be done was November 13, and they
had a gay qualm or two about that.
However, piling a few extra tins of
petrol on top of Yeats-Brown, White
set off. He came down beside the tele-
graph line, but had to land with a fol-
lowing wind and struck a telegraph post.
Arabs and Turks were all round, but
Yeats-Brown went ahead under lire and
blew up the telegraph line. Tommy White
meanwhile, with their rifle, fought the
Turkish army, which was reinforced by
the local Arabs. Presently they were both
captured and, after being beaten with
hammers, adzes, old swords and agricul-
tural implements, which left some marks
which White carries to this day, they
were taken to Bagdad ; and eventually
Tommy White found himself in the centre
of Asia Minor at Afion Karahissar.
There, in that dirty little flat town
cowering under its black mountain, he
lived a polyglot life for most of the war.
He learnt Russian, French and some
Turkish. He wrote verse for The
Bulletin :
I wonder it the days are still
The same —if round the summit of the hill,
Whose castled top we learned to know
While prisoned near its stony base,
The storks and whirring kestrels go;
And then, the sordid, straggling town,
With minarets among the brown
Of squalid huts, like candles set
In vigil o’er a sea of sand —
If hunger is its tenant yet.
Above all, he studied the art of malinger-
ing with a view to getting himself re-
moved to Constantinople, whence there
was a chance of escape. Eventually he
felt qualified to counterfeit a tuber-
cular ankle. (“Luckily for me 1 had had
one broken at football, and this asset I
was able to turn to good account as a
badly-set bone protruded.”) So when a
tight puttee bound from knee to ankle
every night to stop circulation “had given
results which brought joy” to his “malin-
gering heart,” and he had made himself
haggard with quinine and cigarettes and
loss of sleep, he was sent to Haidar
Pasha.
One day little Tommy White escaped
out of a train on the way to see the
dentist. The train was in a collision ;
all he had to do was to jump out of a
crowded and guarded carriage, leap off
a 12ft. aqueduct —remember that he was
lame —and play hide and seek thiough
Constantinople with a pursuing guar .
From that moment, little Tommy White
disappeared for a long time, but the
ostensible population of Galata was
added to considerably.
There was a Georgian, Karaoridse
Berodse, who in a black frock coat and a
fez too small for him, worn like a flower-
pot on his head, used to frequent the
Bierhaus zur Neuen Welt, the chief haunt
of German and Austrian soldiers, because
it appeared to him the safest place to meet
a smuggler who would get him out ot
the country. There was a fugitive named
Thomas Vyatt Melbourne whom nobody
could find. There was a Russian, Serge
Feodorvitch Davidoff, who was presently
on his way to Odessa, where the protago-
nists of the Workers’ Only Fatherland
had just shown their love of democracy
by stoking the naval,, flagship furnaces
with their living officers. And several
months later, when Bulgaria capitulated,
two human scarecrows were seen walk-
ing the yellow paved streets of Sofia
“carrying swags like Australian sun-
downers” —White and one Alan Bott.
There is no war-time tale of persistence,
resource and coolness which beats that
of Tommy White, lately Australian
Minister for Customs. One might have
imagined that in an “Inner Cabinet there
would have been a place for him at a
time when defence policy, and particu-
larly aerial policy, was due for continu-
ous discussion.
There is, however, a joint in Tommy
White’s armor. Ffe has an unlucky day.
As November 8, 1915, found him volun-
teering for the expedition which sent him
into exile for three years, November 8,
1938, saw him starting on a period of
exile from the Australian Ministry be-
cause Mr. Lyons had weighed him against
Mr. Thorby and some of his other col-
leagues and found him wanting.
That he went out fighting and in a
blaze of unusual episodes was character-
istic of Tommy White.
“Fi. fa.”: Queensland’s Supreme Court
has had its first sight of a photostatic will.
Not a photographed will, but a direct
proof, with the script showing in white
on a black ground. It came from South
Africa in connection with a matter of
probate on Queensland property be-
queathed by the South African testator,
and, incidentally, brought out the fact
that, whilst arrangements exist in respect
of probate between South Africa and
England and Queensland and England,
none are in operation between South
Africa and Queensland. However, a
photostat will is nothing to alarm Queens-
land’s Supreme Court. It once had to
deal with a’ large door, on the back of
which a will had been securely pasted by
a testator in order that it should not get
mislaid, an outstanding example of the
legal phrase of “abundance of caution.
* * * ?
When it last reported the almost-
forgotten Livesey Gold Mines (W.A.) had
£152 in cash and shares valued at
£2OO. The co. is a reconstruction of a
concern floated in the heyday of Paddy
Whelan’s attempt to locate Lasseter’s
“lost reef” in country north of the Kal-
goorlie-Port Augusta line. After trying
to find a “find” which couldn’t be found,
it made several other unsuccessful
attempts, the latest in a place south-east
of Sandstone.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The First Prize of £3/3/- offered for the weekly Other Fellow’s Mind Competition
has been awarded to a Queensland lady for a contribution that rings true.
Every week there is a first prize of £3/3/-, in addition to A.J.A. rates —paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be
another prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin’’ promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster. Applicants will be
judged on their contributions to these pages, so they should keep their cuttings.
THE £lO QUARTERLY PRIZE.
Thirteen weeks have passed since the first “Other Fellow’s’’ entries were
published, and each week a prize of £3 35., plus space rates for all published matter,
has been awarded. This week the additional quarterly prize of £lO becomes due
for presentation. Picked out of some thousands of entries, it goes to
T. E. PALMER, Post Office, Hazelbrook (N.S.W.),
for an item published on September 21 entitled “Some Day My Prince Will Come.”
An extract follows:
The heroines of the screen are mostly luxurious creatures who neither toil
nor spin, the favorite story of the flapper press depicts luv-overcoming-all and the
happy-ever-after themes, while over the air comes the assurance that “Some Day
My Hrinee Will Come.”
The modern flapper believes firmly in her prince. Hasn’t she been taught to?
And when her prince, probably struggling to get above the six-pound-a-week mark,
and consequently without much time for luv or romanticism, does arrive, trouble
starts. She finds that the job of being married is the hardest she has ever taken on.
and that she is totally unequipped for it in outlook or any other way. Lances are
broken, but the windmills still keep turning.
Tragic as this is to the individual, it is still more so nationally. The result
increasingly is marriage failures, declining birthrate —national retrogression.
It is more important for a girl to be able to cook a dinner, run a house on a
minimum and, above all, to have the right perspective on princes than it is for her
to have “higher” education.
This contribution not only appealed strongly to those selecting the matter before
it appeared in print, but on publication it drew fire, as well as approval, from many
other writers. It gets the £lO for the merit of being a shrewd, well-put, constructive
observation on a subject of general interest.
Dads and Daves
After seeing “On Our Selection” for
the umpteenth time, the main reason why
our boys leave the land was once more
forcibly brought home to me. It is the
“Old Dad” spirit that still lurks in 999
out of every 1000 farming male parents,
young or old. Dad will expect his
sons to slave for him for a mere
pittance, keeping them well beneath
his thumb and grudging them a
few hours off per week for recrea-
tion. Is it any wonder that, at the
first opportunity, our boys leave the land
which, in their heart of hearts, they really
do love? When a farmer’s own sons have
deserted him, small wonder is it that
other people’s sons cannot be induced to
take their place.
More boys leave home through the
bossiness of old-fashioned dads than for
the reason that we see so often ex-
ploited—the lure of the cities. 1 know
several youngsters manfully fighting a
hard battle in the city who would gladly
have remained in their homes if their
dads had treated them as reasonable young
men instead of half-witted “Daves.” Every
man who possesses land is an autocrat —
land reaches with its loving tentacles right
into its owner’s heart and stays entwined
there. We can forgive our dads for their
possessive complex, but they must be edu-
cated, and the sooner the better, to the
fact that they did not create that land ;
they merely hold it in trust for posterity.
Happy the dad who gives and happy the
sons who receive their rightful heritage!
—D. M. H. (Q.).
The writer of the foregoing is Mrs. D.
M. Herrington, Glasshouse Mountains,
Queensland, and she gets the £3 3s. prize,
together with space rates of 2|d. a line.
Wanted—a Leader!
That is Australia’s greatest and most
vital need —a leader in the best and truest
meaning of the word. We have a Prime
Minister and six unnecessary State Pre-
miers, but not a leader among them to
take supreme command.
The other day the political heads of all
the States were called together to meet
the Commonwealth Government, osten-
sibly to formulate a united plan for the
defence of Australia. What did we get?
Simply a lot of half-hearted ideas and
suggestions, all of which we have heard
before. We are already heartily sick of
commissions, conferences, boards, etc.
What we want is action, not words.
When the leaders of the respective Gov-
ernments were called, to conclave, the
various Opposition leaders should, by
every right, have been with them. Con-
sidering; that they represent a very large
proportion of the voting strength of our
young nation, their participation in the
"No, mate —I dunno no block of flats by that name hereabouts."
framing of any universal plan affecting
all Australians would not have been an
act of grace or courtesy, but their abso-
lute right. It is said the hour brings
forth the man. Well, the hour is here.
Where is the man?— Turalla (N.S.W.).
Build a Fleet Here
So Australia is considering buying a
brand-new battleship. Useful protection,
but even in these days of astronomical
figures £15,000,000 is quite a tidy sum
to leave the country.
What is wrong with building it here?
In the past Australia has constructed
warships up to cruiser size, and with
Government backing ships of the largest
tonnage could be built. This would be
a tremendous fillip to our almost defunct
shipbuilding industry, and directly and
indirectly would employ thousands of
men. In the future we will need more
ships, and the time is opportune to put
the industry on a big footing.
Admittedly a lot of preliminary work
would be necessary, while the cost per
ton would be much greater than in Eng-
land, but the money would be circulat-
ing here. If Australia is to be a self-
reliant nation a start must be made some
time. Why not now? —Iron Bark (Q.).
No Countrymen Need" Apply
Is this an example of democratic
procedure, bureaucratic arrangements,
or just ordinary Governmental squander-
ing?
In the Oct. 29 issue of the Brisbane
“Courier-Mail” appeared an advertise-
ment :
Commonwealth of Australia —Department
of the interior: Works and Services
Branch, Queensland, Vacancy for Engineer.
[Then followed all details.] Applications
should be lodged with the Secretary, De-
partment of the Interior, Canberra, not
later than November 3, 1938, [My
italics.]
How could anyone outside the city see
that advertisement and reply in time?
In any case, why such short notice? —
E. G. W. (N.Q.).
“Sing a Song of Thousands”
Australia hails with joy the news that
the Duke and Duchess of Kent are
booked to represent royalty “down
under.”
The personal popularity of the ducal
pair has been established for years, and
their official qualifications for the respon-
sible job are undoubted.
The first warm rapture of anticipation
has been tempered, if not chilled, how-
ever, by the perusal of the projected bill
of costs.
Those responsible for the expenditure
of public money appear to be vying with
each other in thinking up grandiose
schemes involving the quite-uncalled-for
outlay of many thousands of pounds.
For the mere citizens who have to
foot the bill it is hard to believe either
that patriotism demands or that the vice-
regal guests desire such prodigality.
At first blush it would appear that
the aggrandisement of Canberra and its
social life were the first objective of
those responsible for the appointment,
whereas we know that it is the ambition
of their Excellencies to see as much of
our continent as possible, and to study
the people under normal conditions.
As a community we are not miserly,
but neither are we possessed of boundless
wealth. Our loyalty is not in question,
but it can be expressed more fitly by
homely hospitality and entertainment
within our means than by the threatened
gate-crashing and ill-afforded swank.
Long Live the King (S.A.).
„ , _ .
Settling the Immigrant
If (and when) the immigration policy is
revived, I sincerely hope that the powers
that be will honestly endeavor to carry
out their prime intention — i.e., to place
approved applicants in suitable jobs.
Came out myself as a “nominee” in
’27. Approved? Certainly! Evidence
of G.P.S. education, references from
vicar, headmaster, J.P. and others, plus
a physical-fitness examination, were
required before the nominator decided
that I was suitable.
Suitable jobs? First was on a poultry
farm. Lasted six weeks (I found out
later that this constituted a record for
that particular “approved” employer),
Then a cane-cwm-dairy-farm in the
Bundaberg (Q.) district. Milked in the
wee sma’ hours, chipped cane all day,
and milked again at night. Wage, 17s.
6d. per week. The rural award and
my notice arrived together. Next I was
“apprenticed” to a German who could
hardly speak English, and who averred
that "Chooms vass cheap ; they could not
home go.” Cleared out from that and
decided to be free from the immigration
authorities. Got a decent farm job with
a decent cocky and enjoyed it. Learned
and studied the stud side of breeding.
Became more or less proficient, only to
find that the maximum wage payable to
a stud hand on any farm was £2 a week.
None of the jobs obtained through
the Immigration Department bore the
least resemblance to suitability. In every
case it was a matter of cheap labor
being exploited. No one employer en-
deavored to teach me the first thing
about the principles of agriculture. The
choom was a stock joke, and treated
as such. It he jibbed he was a “lazy
cow” in the employer’s eyes, and a
‘difficult” or “obstinate” case to the
I.D.
The wages offered to immigrants, even
allowing for inexperience, are slavery
standard, the hours average 80 per week,
and the once bright and enthusiastic
migrant soon becomes disillusioned with
this “land of better chance.”
A sane system of training, coupled
with a selective system of placing the
trainees, would help not only the boys
but the prospective employer, and do
much to remove the ill feeling caused
by the inefficient system under which
thousands of English emigrants have
suffered. — Yungarutta (Q.).
Urgent Need for ’Planes
The Vickers Wellesley bombers’ record
long-distance flight shows beyond a
shadow of doubt that Great Britain is
a force to be reckoned with in the air,
but it also shows that we are less than
50 hours’ flying time from many thickly-
populated and well-armed parts of the
world, and that, the
R.A.F. is not the R.A.A.F.
The obvious lesson from the -flight
Points to an urgent need for ’planes of
the yickers-Wellesley type, capable of
covering a vast continent in a short time.
Let the intense defence programme pro-
ceed with all speed, and particularly in
an extremely vulnerable north, even if
it does mean shelving the absurd national
insurance scheme, to allow the concen-
tration of all available funds on defence
items. — Craigens (Q.).
Who Are the Rulers?
j had often wondered why the aver-
man wi „ invariably read the raci
and ti sections of hjs newspape °
and neglect the news from ov< f rs £ as
about the affairs of the world ; but after
years of contradictory or misleading
articles I no longer blame the reader
for neglecting what should be his first
interest.
In the event of a world war Australia
would be at the mercy of these news-
papers, unless some paper could be
relied upon to give the true state of
affairs. The Bulletin may be the paper
for our guidance. But, except for it, my
query is, “Who are the rulers of Aus-
tralia—the people or the newspapers?”
Ethel I. Leonard (Vic.).
ur Thickening Hides
Hurrah for an advancing world which
brings with it a tough-skinned civilisa-
tion! “The hide of a rhinoceros” is a
term that can be applied very aptly to
present-day nations and Governments,
Once upon a time the peace of the world
hung on a thread, but recent events have
shown us that small incidents—an assas-
sination, insults to royalty, a Foreign


Office blunder, small frontier skirmishes—
incidents that in former times were taken
as causes for war, no longer bring a
general armed convulsion. It now lakes
more than incidents like these to make
an impression on our thick hides. The
sticks and stones are there, but no hand
lifts them to start a general showdown,
and, as everyone knows, hard words can
do no material damage. Dictators and
Governments call each other harsh
names, but there is no fight. Let us be
duly thankful for the thickness of our
modern hides!— Susie Wilmington (Q.).
“F.A.Q.” Wheat
Australian wheat brings the lowest
prices in the world’s grain maikets, and,
in spite of the efforts of Dr. Sutton and
others, all kinds of cereal rubbish go
into stacks and bins irrespective or
bread-making qualities. Heavy-yielding
wheats naturally are most popular with
farmers who contend that grading is a
practical impossibility. If so, how do
other countries manage?
The climate of Australia produces mill-
ing and baking wheats second to none,
so why not allow those farmers produc-
ing high-quality grain to reap the results
of their efforts? Imagine the result it
the Australian wool clip was baled in the
same haphazard manner—super, merino
with crossbred, pieces, etc., and sent
abroad as f.a.q. Vet this is precisely
what happens with the present system of
f.a.q. wheat.-— Ack Tock (W.A ).
Woman’s Job
Most women to-day chase false rain-
bows of pleasure. We all are inclined to
want to “buy happiness,” when, if one
only comes down to brass tacks, it s
within us. A happy home radiates it, but
that, like everything else, involves hard
work. It is a woman who makes or
mars a home; it is from the home that
men, successful or otherwise, daily go
out to work. It depends to a large ex-
tent on their home environment what
they are.
If the women of Australia decide to
“see life whole” they can make us the
greatest nation in the world. If they
were to concentrate on their home life
and make that pleasant and colorful,
with a good sprinkling of happy fun,
they would still find time for their golf
and their bridge.
Unselfishness, comradeship and tact,
together with tolerance for the other
fellow’s point of view, are the founda-
tions of happiness in the home and out
of it, and the foundations also of national
greatness. Australians seem naturally to
possess all these, so the task should not
be difficult, nor national greatness a re-
mote dream. But the women matter very
greatly in making it a reality. I have
reared six children ; I reckon I know. —
Spooks (W.A.).
Value of Discipline
Military training has been the subject
of discussion. From my point of view
(and it is of one who spent from 1912
to 1918 in Cadets, Citizen Forces and
A.1.F.), there is a secondary aspect to
such training: it promotes discipline,
neatness and promptitude in carrying out
instructions. How long would an army
officer tolerate being answered with
“Right-o!” or “Yeah!”?
I have had lads under me who have
to be continually told to brush down
cobwebs, pick up papers and other jobs
which tend to cleanliness and tidiness.
In homes I have seen lads leave pyjamas
on the floor to be picked up later by
mothers or sisters.
I venture to say that a term of mili-
tary training is the best grounding for
efficiency it is possible to get, and it costs
the trainee nothing.
The youth of to-day resent any form
of control, and on all sides you hear
parents complaining. Let those parents
agitate for military training. They will
be well rewarded. — Fairvievv (Q.).
International Trade
A person of ordinary intelligence would
suppose that, as nations became in-
creasingly industrialised and self-
sufficient, the need for laborious inter-
national trade would diminish, as it has
done. The Minister for Commerce
(Earle Page) has other views. At the
State conference of the U.C.P. in Sydney
he is reported to have said: “Economic
appeasement, which must be the basis
of permanent peace, will only be
achieved when normal trade relations in
their old or larger volume become re-
established throughout the world.”
Trade is but a means to an end —the
enrichment of both parties to the ex-
change, as S. M. Bruce, has discovered.
Dr. Page evidently regards it as an end
in itself, for he went on to say: “If
peace prevailed, a substantial lift in the
total volume of world trade is possible
among the millions of the East if only
their standard of living could be raised.”
This seems to be as sensible as saying
“If we had some ham we could have
harn-and-eggs—if only we had some
eggs.” If Dr. Page meant anything at
all, it could only have been that we
could supply the millions of the East
with free goods ; for obviously, if their
own standard of living is so low, they
have nothing to spare that would be
acceptable to us as payment.
If we have reached the point where
our surplus has to be given away, why
do the Governments not first ascertain
just what the real surplus is, and give
the unemployed and low-wage class a
chance to earn as much of it as they
need? —F. J. Bowen (S.A.).
Statcsmei i Needed
It is about time that Australian poli-
ticians gave a thought to putting Aus-
tralia first and party afterwards. The
nearest approach we have had to states-
men in the last 20 years are Billy Hughes
and Donald Cameron, both members of
the Federal House. Cameron was noted
for his generosity to the Diggers, as he
gave his Parliamentary salary to their
organisation and helped them all he
could. Hughes, in spite ; of his eccen-
tricity at times, has always put Australia
first.
A recent case of how politicians put
party first was instanced in Queensland,
when one of the leading politicians dis-
closed information that should have been
in the hands of the Defence authorities.
The politician made political capital out
of the information first and then air-
mailed the “low-down” to the Defence
authorities, when the whole world knew
about it. That is a fine example of mak-
ing party capital at the expense of
Australia. If we could only instil into
some of our politicians the ambitions and
honest ruggedness of the Eureka Stockade
type, we would be well on the way to
having just a few statesmen who would
put Australia ahead of their narrow-
minded parties.—Lloyd's Bay (N.Q.).
Dictators
Every well-run concern I’ve seen in
Australia in the last 54 years has been
run by a dictator, though not called such:
Apart from companies it’s the only suc-
cessful method of organisation that I’m
aware of; in fact, I’d like to be one
myself on many jobs where waste and
loss of time are everywhere evident. Dic-
tators are all right provided they know
the game, and if they don’t they won’t
dictate long, so it doesn’t matter much
about the upstarts. —H. Wade (N.S.W.).
Juvenile Radio Sessions
No doubt radio has done much to
give talented children their chance, but —
listen to a juvenile session and see that
there is room for improvement!
In the first place, the type of song
which the kiddies sing. One can put
up with these awful crooning things
about love, kisses and dreaming from
adults, but they are out of place coming
from jcungsters. Surely there are some
good so igs more suited to these juvenile
sessions. They could not possibly be
less musical than the “jazz hits,” and
would be much more appropriate.
Secon lly, the session should contain
items by children only.. Not infrequently
we hear some of the uncles and aunts
placing hemselves in the limelight, or
even other grown-up members of the
station staff performing during the young-
sters’ hour. The sessions should be re-
served exclusively for children, except
for the commentary by an uncle. —
Willy (S.A.).
Radio Alarmists
My thanks to The Bulletin for its
aitides dealing with the scare press and
radio alarmists —especially the radio
burblers.
True, the intelligent can always turn
the dial and shut off their depressing
vaporings, but a country listener who de-
pends on the air for his news must take
in some of it with his daily meals.
I wonder if the A.B.C.’s star turn ever
reflects over the possible effect of his
gloomy predictions on thousands of
country listeners who have no diversion
other than their own thoughts.
Protect us from those sepulchral tones
daily warning us of the woes to come.
Never was quite so well illustrated the
saying “It’s not so much what you say
sometimes as the way you say it.” —
Colin H. Butler (Q.).
One Man, One Rifle
In 1899-1903 87,000 Boers defied
200,000 British soldiers. They inflicted
over 97,000 casualties. This despite the
fact that at least 75 p.c. of them were
practically untrained.
They knew how to use a rifle, and,
above all, they knew their country. Let
our defence-conscious politicians remem-
ber this, and then let them imagine (if
they possess the capacity for so doing)
that army that would be needed to beat
a million Aussies between the ages of
17 and 70, each armed with a modern
rifle which he knew how to use.
The cost of equipping every ablet-
bodied male in the Commonwealth with
a rifle would be large, but not compar-
able with the cost of some of the less
useful defence equipment being con-
sidered. The arms could be stored in
every country police station, whence
they could be taken periodically by
their owners for compulsory practice.
Spit-arid-polish and brass-hats will not
count if Australia is ever invaded. What
will be needed are men who know their
country and how to use a gun.—B. I.
(W.A.).
If Others Had It
We have made wool-production our
own. No other country can equal
us for quality. We have something the
world is anxious to have. Yet we are
fiddling about in an almost criminal way.
One cannot but wonder what a really
progressive race would do with our wool.
What scientific light would be brought
to bear on our grazing and breeding sys-
tems, on our use of pastures, stored
fodder, • irrigation. One could imagine
a national bureau set up to organise and
exploit the country’s greatest source of
wealth.
The merino would be national prop-
erty, held in trust by the grazier, who
would have to give account of his trustee-
ship. Pastures would be improved out
of all recognition ; breeding would be
managed so as to put more and better
wool on the sheep; no ram would re-
main entire that didn’t measure up to
the standard established ; water and
fodder conservation would be on such
a scale that drought would never be
feared again; the climatic and other
conditions of each district would be
analysed and classified, and only the
kind of sheep suited by those conditions
would be allowed to produce wool there ;
the blowfly and the crow and the grass-
hopper would be rendered innocuous.
In short, more and better wool per sheep
and more sheep per acre would be a
national policy instead of the cherished
dream of a few, and the merino would
dominate the world’s textile industry.—
Jumbuck Shingler (N.S.W.).
Grateful for the Wireless
I do not possess a singing voice—any-
one with a musical ear might cry for
mercy if they heard me attempting to
sing—but I get a lot of satisfaction my-
self from my efforts at harmonising.
During the war I sometimes gargled a
fearsome bass, or, if the mood took me,
a fluty tenor, to “Mother Machree” and
such songs as lent themselves to my re-
stricted ability.
Nowadays I can find no one good-
hearted enough to sing an air for me
while I try myself out.
The wireless has come to my rescue,
and now 1 can sit in my armchair alone
with the world’s best singers and im-
provise.
If my wife is present she tells me to
keep quiet, as it spoils the music, but
when I am alone I still do it, and think
how good it is to be able to sing a duet
with an unknowing prima donna! That
is one advantage the wireless has given
to me.— W. R. G. Colman (Tas.).
Refrigerators
The first cycle of summer storms has
passed up here, North of ’2B ; the house-
wife has stored her blankets, whilst the
drone of mosquitoes tilting against the
nets grows nightly. My breakfast butter
has lost its firmness.
I scan the weekly broadcast from a
dietitian of note. Featured beside her
suggestions for the summer foods is a
line of refrigerators. The attendant letter-
press emphasises that refrigerators “are a
necessity in the summer.” This I do not
dispute, and, since the newspaper bears
irrefutable evidence of my wife s having
forestalled me this a.m., the luncheon
topic turns to ice for the coming months.
A couple of flies are bogged to the dif-
ferential in the jam and the butter.
In the afternoon I fire up the blowlamp,
the wastepipe and internal drainage of the
ice-chest having been reported defective.
Murmurs re good example and listening
children succeed me into the bathroom,
where the smell of soldering flux per-
sists in my nose. As I worked I figured
out costs of running and telephoned a
few friends for comparison.
Half an hour next morning on the
telephone (I have bought it x times over
in rent) begets a stack of figures.
Rapid and audible figuring by our
student daughter confirms my belief that
at the price of a machine bought on
terms it should have golden door handles
and a free horoscope.
No! Refrigerators may still lend a
graceful air of class distinction to the
kitchenettes of Ascot and Hamilton. But
the embalmed mullet which slide wood-
enly on to our. wives’ plates at 9 a.m.
will still be greeted this summer with the
smell of suspicion at the time of the
evening meal. Stung by such doubtful-
ness on our part the wives will soon re-
sort to American tinned fish in a fruit-
less endeavor to tempt the flagging
appetites of the weary.
Will refrigerators go through the same
price-cycle as wireless sets and car bat-
teries? There is plenty of room up here
in Bananaland for a daring factory.—
SO2 (Q.).
Nudism for Children
Some people are shocked when they
hear of a nudist colony, but 1 think it
would be kind, really, to have some
formed for the benefit of poorer folk in
our less fortunate suburbs.
The children would benefit in the
summer, at any rate. Girls’ and boys
clubs could be formed separately.
Poor people’s children are inclined to
be looked down upon when they have
shabby or untidy clothes. (It is not
everyone’s talent to be tidy, though the
untidy may make excellent citizens.)
Therefore, a nudist club for children
would, in my opinion, be an asset to
many a distracted parent, and give a
maximum amount of happiness to the
children as well. — Repf (Vic.).
Music
Music is a great boon as a spiritual
and physical tonic. But the greatest
pleasure and benefit are got by making
music for oneself and for others; by
taking part in family music, in amateur
concerts, in choir work —the com-
mon musical experience which shows its
popularity in the success of the eistedd-
fod movement.
Music to listen to is being provided in
many schools. Queensland Agricultural
College has a wireless set on each dormi-
tory, parties are organised to attend
celebrity concerts, and a first-class pro-
gramme of recorded music is played and
explained every Sunday evening ; but the
most popular events are the occasional
concerts given by students or by neigh-
boring townsfolk. Canned music hasn’t
the same appeal. The personal touch
brings up the interest, and if the artist is
an amateur and a friend faults are con-
doned and a real spirit of goodfellowship
engendered.
I should like to see a music period
established in all schools, for all classes,
and it should take the form, regularly
and frequently, of a “sing, say or play”
concert. — Aerogenes (Q.).
Abstract or Concrete?
Call him Steve. I’ve been trying to
find him a job. I quote this statement of
his without comment: “They talk about
defending Australia, preserving its demo-
cratic institutions. I’m one of the blokes
they expect to do the dirty work, but I
wonder what they’d say if I asked them
whether what I’m expected to fight for
is some abstract dream or a concrete
reality.
“See what they collected in Sydney for
the Czechs! There’s people who think
nothing of busting up a hundred quid on
a party; there’s others who haven’t a
deener for a feed. There isn’t enough
money to provide kids with proper play-
grounds in the cities, but Governments
think nothing of spending thousands on
scenic roads for the heads to use. There’s
millions of acres to spare, but I can’t get
even an acre to grow a few veges. on.
“They’re always talking about spending
money abroad and keeping up our pres-
tige—what’s the good of that to a man
getting a fiver a week and feeding a wife
and three kids? Say what you like,
Hitler gave ’em work and filled their bel-
lies, and he’ll get ’em a lot more yet. A
bloke reckoned I wouldn’t be allowed to
talk like this in Germany. I wouldn't
want to —I’d be too busy. Unless
democracy can give a man a job and
keep his belly full, and give his kids a
chance, it’s not worth a cracker.” —Me
Too (N.S.W.).


m
iA
If
m
. s- '
I
' : V- •• • •
.
Wm
<•;-• :• • >:[
Wm .
as sunshine
through the
clouds of
ill-health...
in
U
IMD
i
NATURAL TONIC
brings welcome LASTING RELIEF to sufferers from
NERVES, ARTHRITIS,
RHEUMATISM
BLOOD PRESSURE $ KIDNEY TROUBLE
HUTUWAI helps to drive out the injurious acids and
poisons from the system, and eradicates aches and
pains. Hutuwai will give you steady nerves and an
excellent appetite, and you will sleep well. Headaches
disappear. Colour is restored to the cheeks. Your friends
will tell you how well you look, and you will take a
renewed interest in life. Hutuwai is different ... it is
genuine. Hutuwai contains the LIVE JUICE of Herbal
Plants . . . this is why Hutuwai must do you good!
Get rid of your aches and pains...drink
HUIUWAI
(Pronounce HOO-TOO-WY)
NATURAL TONIC
WAS STRICKEN DOWN
WITH ARTHRITIS....
can now walk without a stick
ST. MARYS., N.S.W., Bth September, 1037.
Dear Sirs. —
Shortly after I turned 60 years of agre I was
stricken down with ARTHRITIS in a very
severe form. To-day I AM OVER 82 YEARS
OE AGE. During the time I have been suffer-
ing I WAS A MARTYR TO PAIN AND IN-
SOMNIA. I was unable to do anything for
myself for seventeen years. I have spent a
fortune trying to get some relief. Nothing
could be done for me. I tried every medicine
I heard of, but never obtained the slightest
benefit until I was recommended to take
Hutuwai a few weeks ago by a friend I have
known for over 50 years.
Everyone knows how bad I have been; and
to-day all my friends and acquaintances are
absolutely amazed at the wonderful improve-
ment since I started on your Hutuwai
Remedy, for I CAN NOW WALK WITHOUT
CRUTCHES OR EVEN A STICK.
This amazing improvement is due entirely
to the wonderful Hutuwai Remedy and the
very helpful advice contained in your valuable
Diet Chart. I can even WAEK UP STEPS
WITHOUT A STICK, and am exceedingly
grateful to your Hutuwai treatment for the
wonderful restoration of my health. I have
recommended scores of others to take Hutuwai,
and I am quite certain it will help every other
sufferer just as it has me.
Yours thankfully,
(Signed) C. A. HACKETT, Snr.
mi
■ ■■■ •<■;••••
LARGE
BOTTLE
4^6
ALSO IN
3/- SIZE
INCLUDING VALUABLE DIET CHART FREE
The “Hospital” Bottle contains five times the quan-
tity of the 4/6 size, and costs only 18/-. SAVE 4/6.
If unobtainable locally, send direct to Hutuwai
Distributing Co., 210 George Street, Sydney; or
Hutuwai Tonic, 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Postage 1/- extra per bottle.
HUTUWAI IS OBTAINABLE FROM STORES
AND CHEMISTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
ic
ds
GIVE AUSTRALIAN BOOKS FOR XMAS
A STOCKTAKING BARGAIN
ORIGINALLY PRICED AT 5/- & 6/- EACH
NOW ANY FOUR FOR 5/-
Giving Amber Her Chance /V
The World Is Yours
Stories by “Kodak”
Pearls of Papua
Blue North
Jungfrau
Karangi
l>
*9
0°
e
<p.
,c&
V V*
\\®* ..
,# ss
i 4^
s V c
\0


w
THE ’air trimmers illustrated here have
nothing to do with the perfected AIR
TRIMMERS incorporated in every Tasma
Receiver . . . but listen ... it is the exclusive,
dust-proof Tasma Air Trimmer which, in
conjunction with the Ferro-Coil Intermedi-
ates, ensures that your Tasma will play with
the same clarity, the same purity of tone, in
five years’ time as it does the day you buy it.
The Tasma Air Trimmer is not a “gadget”
... it is an uncannily clever and efficient inven-
tion which enables your Tasma to keep the
accuracy of its factory settings year in and
year out. And remember —the Air Trimmer
is but ONE of Tasma’s eight points of
superiority!
HERE ARE SOME OF THE OTHER FEATURES WHICH ACCOUNT FOR TASMA'S LEADERSHIP
INSTANTANEOUS TUNING: Enabling any one of the 125 Stations indi-
cated on the Tasma dial to be tuned at the flick of a finger and thumb with
hairline accuracy.
EXTENDED TUNING RANGE: Both above and below normal limits, pro-
viding for the addition of new broadcasting stations as they come on the air.
OVERSIZE DIAL: Twenty inches of tuning space floodlit brilliantly with
pointer and stations covering the full circle. Even a deaf man can tune a
Tasma perfectly!
A.C. models incorporate Audio
played louder and precluding
AUTOMATIC VOLUME CONTROL: All
A.V.C., permitting, weak stations to be
annoying variations,
| VARIABLE SELECTIVITY: A luxury feature giving full musical volume
and absolute selectivity over any programme you may select.
INBUILT MAGIC EYE: The Magic Eye of the Tasma is built into the dial
to ensure immediate visual indication of exact tuning.
OCTAL VALVES: The new Tasma Receivers are equipped with the new
Octal Valves. If a radio isn’t Octal equipped it isn t the latest.
fds
THE TASMA “PRINCESS”
Described by a leading critic
as “the most outstanding
receivers of their type on
the market.”
Model “530”— 6-valve, dual-
wave A.O. model. 35 guineas.
Model “560” —7-valve, dual-
wave Universal current (A.C.
or D.C.). 39 guineas.
Model “585” Battery
operated 5-valve. 35 gns.
Air Cell operated, 37 gns.
Vibrator operated, 40 gns.
;'
THE TASMA “DEBUTANTE”
Meeting the demand for
receivers with full console
chassis, yet with a cabinet
compact enough for table
use.
Model “525” —6-valve dual-
wave A.C. 27 guineas.
Model “580”—Broadcast 5-
valve, Battery operated. 27
guineas.
Air Cell operated, 29 gns.
Vibrator powered, 32 gns.
Model “585”- —-5-valve dual-
wave Battery operated. 29
guineas.
Air Cell operated', 31 gns.
iVibrator powered, 34 gns.
fds
THE TASMA “COUNTESS"
Flawless in technical design
and giving a standard of
performance never before
achieved.
Model “525”—6—valve dual-
wave A.C. 31 guineas.
Model “580” 5 - valve
broadcast, Battery operated.
31 guineas.
Air Cell operated, 33 gns.
Vibrator powered, 36 gns.
A PRODUCT OF
THOM & SMITH
PTY., LIMITED.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
VICTORIA: HARTLEYS, LTD., 270 Flinders
Street, Melbourne.
John Hollway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street,
North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors .)
SOUTH AUST-: OLIVER J. NILSEN & CO.,
LTD., 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide
DETAIL BUILT RADIO
TASMANIA: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY.,
LTD., 36 Argyle Street, Hobart; and 59
George Street, Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: CARLYLE & CO.,
915-917 Hav Street, Perth.
SOLD BY ALL
PRINCIPAL
RADIO DEALERS.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. GRICE, LTD., 90-92
Queen Street, Brisbane; Rockhampton,
Townsville and Cairns.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 197
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane. (Wholesale
Distributors.)
DARLING DOWNS: ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD., Str~t, Toowoomba
