

: m
■ ■ ' ■.
m
ma
m
i m
HI
n
m
m
.//
m
mmi
is
i
S •■'
m
'Vi:
«
:■ . v'.
V;;
roc
J<ftjUd&iajUati
Jahmeki
WARATAH
• ••
FENCING PRDDIICTS
RLL RUSTRRLIRN
Insist on having
WARATAH
WIRE NETTING
RUNS OUT STRAIGHT AND FlftT
WARATAH
BARBED WIRE
FOR STRENGTH AND DURABILITY^
WARATAH'
STEEL FENCING WIRE
BLACK OR GALVANIZED
'WARATAH'
STAR* STEEL FENCING POSTS
LIDHT AND STRONP
'WARATAH'
MOTOR BY-PASS
THE EVER-OPEN CATE
'WARATAH' HINGED-JOINT FENCE
(ILL MJSTRHLIHN PRODUCTS
Thade front
W wmm m m mm n
B.H.P
NEWCASTLE STEEL
SOLD BY ALL LEAPING STOREKEEPERS
AN INVITATION 15 EXTENDED TO CUSTOMERS
TO VISIT OUR. WORKS AT NEWCASTLE *
RYIAHBS
V 'BRAHdV
rST-i MfV
jgMEj
tTtIHC
Hivm
A
RYLBNDS BROS.inusiPTY. LTD.
WORKS ■. NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
HERD OFFICE:
422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURKE
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3021.
Wednesday, January 5, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S 64-PAGE ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
ia now ready, and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to:—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
LECTURERS IN LITERATURE.
Thanks to the W.E.A. I have been attending
nine lectures on Australian literature by H. M. Green
which presented a striking contrast to a course on
modern Russian literature by Prince Dmitri Mirsky
that 1 underwent a few years ago at King’s College,
London. Ihe keynote of Mirsky’s contribution was
modernism, to the pitch of bellowdrama. His style
was like the Volga in flood voluminous, turgid,
sullen, incontrovertible. His self-confidence was
formidable. Any questions or discussion was by
partisans, and in the same attitude of mind: the
mental essence of the congregation remains with me
as fervently bigoted.
Mr. Green and his class were free from any
faroucheries whatever. What was lacking in fury or
intellectual strain was compensated for by freedom.
Everyone was invited to make suggestions or remarks.
Many did so without waiting for the end of the
lecture. There was no rasp or ridicule in lecturer
or class, but a merry sense of humor and a real
desire to get all points of view. The keynote was
mateship.
Prince Mirsky’s class was exceedingly Blooms-
bury, with an insolent and naive assumption of
superiority in stating the last word on modern
Russian —or indeed on world literature, with no
admission that it was considering a mutable phase
which may leave jolly little grain in the sieve after
a decade of sifting. None had any significance but
the saved. The saved had swallowed post-revolu-
tionary proletarianism in literature holus-bolus.
Reference to the Russian classics was mostly con-
temptuous. The one acceptable recipe for fiction
was to take proletarianism and heighten its triumph
at the expense of the ousted regime.
Mirsky, himself of the pre-war oligarchic class,
had performed a volte face and had the intolerance
and zeal of the proselyte. He had a jungle mass of
matter to deal with, but much of the little of it known
to me (only in translation, of course) was weeds—
mere verbiage. Preciosity had an innings in the
discussion. “Decorated prose” was extolled, “fellow-
traveller” authors sneeringly dealt with —that is, those,
no matter how sympathetic, who had the effrontery
to attempt an understanding of the Five Year Plan
without having been born in the gutter or furrow.
Matey advances were clearly suspect.
Now to our Australian course. Our literature
is perhaps arid to those coming from ranker and
damper literary climes, but it yields treasure to the
properly constituted prospector. Sporadic, inconse-
quent, casual, persistent, mobile, it is sparsely scat-
tered in a diversity of vessels and vehicles from Cape
Leeuwin to Carpentaria, from Otway to Arnhem
Land and back again to the Centre, and then out to
the lush islands of the Pacific and away to the lorn
and lordly Pole. It has to be fossicked from the
annals of administrative officials, convicts, explorers,
scientists, and plucked from the mouths of surviving
pioneers and swarms of versifiers as alive as the
parrots that adorn our landscape. Flung without
thrift or artistic calculation, it is not yet collected or'
assimilated, let alone collated, within its own boun-
daries.
In Mr. Green’s course there was time only to
suggest in outline the immense field that Australia
presents for literary adventure. This he did with a
modesty that ran down the scale to apology, unwar-
ranted by the importance of the subject and the
industrious research he has made into it. The talks
show the need of similar courses continually, with
a number of expositors in exchange between the
capitals. Such studies would familiarise Australian
writers and readers with the possibilities of their
material and assist them in evaluation and the estab-
lishment of standards.
That there is already so much literary matter in
our archives is an almost incredible feat, and it is
high time to consider it in relation to itself, to assess
its integral value to Australia without so much timid
deprecation of it in relation to any other literature
whatever. What Australian material is in relation to
world literature it is as yet too early to declare or to
determine, but only in ratio to its internal importance,
its integrity to Australia, can it be of any importance
to world culture or become distinctively Australian.
MILES FRANKLIN.
WOMEN PIONEERS.
The Peaceful Army, “a memorial to the women
pioneers of Australia, 1788-1938,” edited by Flora
S. Eldershaw and published by the Women’s Advisory
Council of Australia’s 150th Anniversary Celebrations,
is not indiscriminatingly laudatory.
Eleanor Dark draws a moving picture of a splen-
did woman in her study of Caroline Chisholm, who
devoted her life —she had nothing else to devote—to
helping friendless and generally penniless emigrants
who were dumped on these shores under the “bounty”
system.
Dymphna Cusack and M. Barnard Eldershaw,
in dealing with Mary Rciby, the emancipist merchant,
and Elizabeth Macari >ur respectively, allot their
subjects full marks fc> ‘ne stern- ;.r virtues but find
them a little lacking ii the gentler oVs. They were
women of resource, co,> .. ee and enterprise such as the
country doubtless needed, b* ' it is soted that neither
demurred at exploiting wretchedness for gain in
accordance with the practice oi die times.
Other contributors to The Peaceful Army are
Margaret Preston, who makes an interesting factual
survey of early women painters ; Winifred Birkett,
who brings some critical penetration to bear on her
study of early women novelists ; Miles Franklin, who
writes with enthusiasm on Rose Scott; Dame
Mary Gilmore, Dora Wilcox, Olive Hopegood, Kath-
leen Monypenny and Helen Simpson, who are repre-
sented by poems that are much more than merely
appropriate ; and Kylie Tennant, who closes the book
with an article, “Pioneering Still Goes On.”
Kylie Tennant, who won a Prior Memorial Prize
and a place in Australian literature with her novel
Tiburon, a study of Australian small-town life, points
out that pioneering has passed from the individual
to the organisational basis. She instances the work
of such bodies as the Country Women’s Association,
describes what they are doing for the future of
the race in improving the circumstances of people
outback, and challenges complacency with her out-
line of what is yet to be done.
NEW FICTION.
If Stuart Cloete’s Turning Wheels (Collins) is not
a great book it is at least of the substance of great
books. Cloete has taken a large canvas—the great
northward trek of the Boers in 1836 to found the
Orange Free State and the Transvaal beyond reach
of the pursuing British Government. He tells the
complete story of one band of voortrekkers under
the leadership of the harsh and dominant Hendrik
van der Berg, through the long-drawn-out hardship
of the journey, settlement in Canaan, and being wiped
out in blood by the Zulus.
The book shows life driven into narrow channels
and scouring them deeply. The characters are drawn
with strong, harsh strokes; the story is told with
severe economy. The details of a life in which men
went with a gun in one hand and the Bible in the
other have the strength of accuracy and are driven
in like nails. The prose has the close-knotted beauty
of a small vocabulary of well-worn words.
There are memorable scenes and memorable
people: old Anna de Jong, so completely good and
evil in her simplicity; Zwarte Piete, the hunter, and
Sara, his sister; Rinkals, the Kaffir magician ; Sara
treed by a buffalo and destroyed in slow agony;
Hendrik van der Berg killing his son in the matter-of-
fact belief that God willed it; Hendrik hunting his
last kameel.
There is, too, a vein of mysticism forced up by
the very hardness of the material, and now and then
a burst of poetry tinged with the majesty of the
Bible, as when the old man asks “What is death?”
and answers himself to the effect that it is but a
changing of states of being, that perhaps it is better
to die young, having known the love of a woman
and the madness of war, than to sink struggling like
beasts caught in the mud of age.
Turning Wheels is a book of movement rather
than of incident. It is a picture of a wave that
expends itself and is lost. But in life, as in the sea,
there are more waves. Even this defeat and exter-
mination are a figure of man’s resistless and ever
resurgent energy.
Naomi Roydfc-Smith’s novel For Us in the Dark
(Macmillan) is preceded by the author’s note: “The
story of this novel is based on the published reports
of a famous trial, and all the characters in it are
drawn from life.” That may account for the occa-
sional feeling that the action is too melodramatic to
be true.
It is a long novel —600-odd pages —and is closely
packed with events and sensations. It is certainly
good value, for the author has great gifts as a story-
teller and attempts nothing more. This can be a
relief in times when propaganda novels of one kind
and another are as thick as blackberries and often
as thorny.
The story is strange and tragic. Peter and
Violet Comper think that life on a small income is
more comfortable without children and rejoice in
their unencumbered state until in middle age they
discover that their child, if they had one, would
inherit a large fortune that would otherwise go to
charity. Violet decides on a bold fraud. Peter is
in Egypt on war service when chance throws in her
way a penniless girl, the prospective mother of an
unwanted war baby.
The child, named Francie, is registered as the
daughter of Violet and Peter Comper, and no one,
least of all Peter, knows of the deception. The real
mother is heartily glad to disappear into marriage
“with an Australian or a Canadian or someone,” and
the adopted parents enjoy the child’s fortune in trust
until she becomes of age or marries.
But Peter, an ambitious muddler, so mismanages
the trust moneys that he comes within reach of the
law. To save the situation Francie is married at
sixteen to Lord Trethick, an impoverished and dis-
solute baron twenty-five years her senior. The story
of her marriage works itself out in violence and
sudden death for all those closely connected with her
and brings the book to its powerful and moving
climax.
The story hinges on the character of Francie,
the innocent victim, and she is portrayed with delicacy,
charm and poignancy. The other characters the
ruthless and commonplace parents, the pathetic Missy
with her latent strength, the subtle Canon Retarrier—
are convincingly drawn, though the author fails
somewhat with the wicked baron. The book can’t
quite digest a character so recklessly and conven-
tionally bad.
John McKellar, author of Sheep Without a
Shepherd (The Ruskin Press), believes that man’s
hope of reaching a state of social contentment lies
not in the manipulation of political machinery but
only in moral and spiritual regeneration.
He tells the story of John Mac Murray from his
boyhood in a rope and cordage factory near Foots-
cray to the time of his resignation from Parliament
to become a lay advocate of Gospel teachings. The
ugliness of life in the surroundings to which he is
born thrusts itself on the boy, and in his search for
means of alleviation he is torn between the teachings
of his father -f- a deeply religious but humanly
ineffectual man —and those of labor organisers at
the factory.
The latter prevail, and John —by this time a
married man—enters the political field. His experi-
ences there force him to the recognition of. uglinesses,
different in shape but no less real and formidable in
character from those of the slums and the rope works.
The author’s period, from the 1890’s onwards,
covers some of our most vital social history, and
where he is addressing himself directly to the reader —-
outlining, for instance, the course of the disastrous
outlining, for instance, the maritime strike—he com-
mands attention. Also, where he is presenting broad
effects, such as the atmosphere of the rope factory or
that of a meeting of evangelical lay brothers, he gets
in some good work ; but he is weaker in creating char-
acter and in giving an appearance of inevitability to
events.
A Stranger and a Sojourner, by Nora K. Smith
(Hodder and Stoughton; Dymock’s), winner of a
£lOOO competition, is not a book for the reader with
a taste for sophisticated literature, though it has an
appeal of its own.
A little mystery is, made concerning the parent-
age of Zillah, a child whom a rough Derbyshire
farmer brings home one stormy night and commits
to the care bf his wife, without explanations. She
grows up with the farmer’s family, marries, shares
the troubles of her young husband in his struggle
with a poor farm among the hills, triumphs over her
difficulties and enjoys much of the goodness of life.
She is not, as the reader naturally suspects, the
farmer’s illegitimate daughter, but the daughter of
a girl whom the farmer loved hopelessly in his youth.
Her parents, shortly before the night of storm, were
fatally injured in a motor accident, and the dying
mother, secure in the knowledge of the sterling
qualities of her one-time lover, leaves her in his
charge.
The story is made to seem quite probable in the
telling, and the writer brings to her tale familiarity
with the lives of small farmers among the Derbyshire
hills, a genuine love of the earth and the ability to
transport her reader to the chosen scene.
REVIEWED BRIEFLY.
Elizabeth Augustin’s Outcasts (Hodge), a tale of
Russian peasantry, has the disadvantage of going over
ground covered in exactly the same manner half a
century ago. It is good, but slavishly traditional....
Phyllis Bottome’s The Mortal Storm (Faber) is a
frankly propagandist but well-written account of
stirring events in the family of a Jewish professor who
marries an “Aryan” widow with two sons and has
by her a daughter. Sons become ardent Nazis;
daughter falls in love with a Communist... .Gilbert
Frankau’s The Dangerous Years (Hutchinson),
chronicles of an English upper middld-class family
from the beginning of the century to the present
day, is far too long for its substance and leaves an
impression of having been very laboriously churned
0ut.... Alec Brown produces another social-survey
novel in Breakfast in Bed (Boriswood), the disaffected
being English middle-class intellectuals. The argu-
ment may be sound, but the story never comes to
life, maybe because the author is too preoccupied
with his literary style Lucian Wainwright has
packed a quaint mixture of medicine, mysticism,
pseudo - philosophy and romance into Oracle
(Methuen). It’s also a love story and an account of
a modern “healing centre” for the sick in mind and
body... .Georgette Heyer has gone to great trouble
to be sound on the historical side for An Infamous
Army (Heinemann), the title of which refers to
Wellington’s description of his troops, but the author
fails to put the breath of life into her puppets, and,
as with her earlier books, this romance of Waterloo
is acted out by puppets Screened, by Faith
Wolseley (Dymock’s, Sydney), is murder mystery with
a London setting, a dash of humor and some good
character-drawing. The writer has more style than
is usual in this class of authorship.
Sketches of seafaring life by an ex-naval
surgeon, Allan Bee’s Swallowing the Anchor (Black-
wood) purports to be tales told during the slack hours
in the ward-room and sticks to the tradition of the
sailor as a duty-loving, unworldly and frolicksome
lad... . Elinor Mordaunt is best known for Royals
Free and other popular seafaring tales. Her auto-
biography, Sinabada (Joseph, Ltd.), is a record of
domestic trifles recounted without an apparent gleam
of insight —a curious example of the imaginative
thinness of the mind of a light romantic when applied
to interpreting events of real life.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — Always.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
jh
HALF YEARLY
GENUINE
j
I
sat ►
■
■
1 iPfeif
■H
If
ill
m
m
m
\
m
u
SMS
mmm
, i
m
■
■HI
bhb
105/- READY-TO-WEAR
SAC SUITS
You will be delighted with the style,
tailoring and excellence of these
ready-to-wear Suits • . . and what is
more, there is a style to fit every
figure. New Blues and Greys in
neat stripes. Two- or three-button
models, tailored in our own work-
rooms of All Wool Worsteds.
Price, 105/-. Sale Price, 89/6.
69/6 Two-Piece
Summer Suits
49^6
All Wool Australian Tweeds in
smart designs. Tailored in
our own workrooms in popular
styles. Patch pockets and
trousers have all the latest style
features. Unlined. Price, 69/6.
Sale Price 49/6
ft
/»>>„
p «!
*
lii'
y y
H
W'.i.
K
35/- Jodhpurs
A.—Cut for saddle wear and
they dispense with leggings.
Strong Riding Twists of fine
quality All Wool Venetian.
Q&Z
Smooth finish and
there is a choice of Fawn or Olive shades. Price, 35/-
Sale Price 29/6
26 , 6 Riding Breeches
B.—Here is a bargain in smartly-cut Riding
Breeches. Self-strapped. Khaki linings and
pockets. Lace at knee. Fawn or Olive Bedford
Q2 7 6
Cords or Dark Brown Velveteen Cords. Price 26/6
Sale Price 22/6
# Men’s Wear —Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all Railway
Stations in N.S.W. and Seaports in the Commonwealth.
105/- SUITS
To Measure
9 4 6
Look what you can
save on a made-to-
rn e a s u r e suit.
Tailored in our own
workrooms by ex-
perts of fine quality
Suitings. Standard
quality British linings
and interlinings used.
Prices, 105 /-, 126/-,
147/- and 168/-.
Sale Prices, 94/6,
1 15/-, 1 35/-, 155/-.
m
mi
fiXM*
m
is
m
u
■ ;K
if*
■
■
' i
63/- English
Sports Coats
Here is a substantial
saving on comfortable,
well-made Sports Coats.
Range of 40 patterns in
the newest English
Tweeds. Blues, Brown,
Greys or Green. Plain
or belted action backs.
Pleated or bellows
49'6
pockets. A size for every figure.
Sale Price
Price .... 63/-
49/6
30'- Worsted Flannel Trousers
A really good cloth in new shades of Grey, ranging from
dark to light Blue Grey. Best make in Worsted Flannel.
Sizes 30in. to 46in. waist. Price, pair .... 307-
Sale Price, pair 26/6
266
11'9 STRONG WORK TROUSERS
These are the Trousers to stand up under the strain of hard
work. Made of durable Woollens in Dark Grey, Brown,
Fawn shades. Tailored by experts in our own workrooms.
Sizes 30in. to 44in. waist. Price, pair 11/9
Sale Price, pair 9/11
9*ll
19/6 FINE SERGE TROUSERS
Trousers that will wear exceptionally well and retain their
smart style indefinitely. All Wool Serge and the dye is
absolutely fast. Made in our own workrooms.
Price, pair 19/6. Sale Price 15/9
15/9
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


£155 for Stories.
The Bulletin wants short stories for it's fiction
section, and Cinesound Productions, Ltd.,
wants stories suitable for the screen.
“The Bulletin” offers
First Prize £3O
Second £l5
Third £5
Special Prize Brief Story £5
Cinesound offers for
Best Screen Story £lOO
It is possible for one story to win in both
sections. In addition to the prizes, all entries
published will be paid for at Bulletin rates.
Entries must not exceed 6500 words; 1500
words is the limit in the Brief Story section.
Entries must be original, and hitherto unpub-
lished.
Scenarios are NOT wanted. Cinesound will
attend to that.
Closing date is January 31, 1938. But any
entry considered to have a chance will be paid
for and published as it comes to hand.
Entries to be addressed:
“Short Story Competition,”
C/o “The Bulletin,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Any further particulars may be had from The Bulletin.
Mates
GENEVIEVE
BY
KATHARINE
SUSANNAH
PRICHARD
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
THE truck came roaring down the side of the
ridge, sending the dust and stones flying. It
swerved at a curve in the road to miss a dead
tree spindling against the blue and green of the
evening sky. A herd of goats scattered and made off
among the mounds of mud bricks and scrapheaps of
broken bottles where once the town stood.
Rattling and crashing over the rough track, the
truck came on and pulled up before the pub, a squat,
dilapidated building of mud bricks with a roof of
corrugated-iron, whitewashed, a few whitewashed
and dust-raddled sheds behind.
“Palace Hotel. Genevieve,” black letters on a
white board across its forehead announced. You
could take it or leave it; but there it was, all that
was left of the old rush, and the only house where
food and drink could be obtained on the dry stretch
between Barditon and Flynn’s Find.
Barbe Flegg hauled himself out of the driver’s
seat and stood scowling at the truck. He kicked a
flat tyre and cursed with weary desperation. A lean
white fox-terrier bitch on the driver’s seat started up,
yelping mournfully.
Three men and a youth drifted out from the bar,
Ted Budge, the licensee, behind them.
“Been playin’ you up, Barbe?” he queried.
“She’s done pretty near all she could, bar leave
me a corpse on the road.”
The lad walked over to the truck and round her
with the eye of an authority on the job. “Got a couple
of flat tyres, and y’r petrol-tank’s leakin’; you was
lucky to get here.”
Barbe Flegg pulled off his hat and swept the
grime from his lean, furrowed face. “Fix ’em, Alf.
I got to be in Barditon to-night.”
“How’s Bill?”
“He’s bad. The doctor sent word to the battery.
I just come in and they give me the crushing.”
“How’d she go?”
“Hundred and fifty-four to sixty ton.”
Gus Brown lit up as he assimilated the news.
“Strike! You’ll be a blasted millionaire before you
know where you are, you and Bill.”
Andy Mac chewed it over. “Bill was sayin’ last
week the Western Syndicated buy you out when you
got a decent crushin’.”
“Yeah,” Barbe said slowly. “They’ve got a man
on the battery . . . says the company’ll take up the
lease, put in machinery. We can get out with a wad
of shares and £10,000.”
“Gord!” “Penny” Payne stared at Barbe, his
blue eyes soaked and vacant.
“How’s it for a drink, Barbe?” Froth dribbled
from the corners of Andy’s mouth.
Barbe’s face set and hardened.
“I’m not stoppin’,” he said. “I got to see Bill.
He’s low, the doctor says. I reckon it’ll put new life
into him if he knows about the crushing. He always
would have there was more gold in the Lady Jenny
than we got out of her.”
“Pore Bill,” “Pennyweight” muttered.
“Shift y’rself. Alf, and it’ll be the best-paid job
you ever done,” Barbe moved restively. “I want to
get a move on.”
'T' ALK of getting a move on with thousands of
* pounds in the offing did not suit Mr. Budge. Time
was when with six or seven thousand men on the
rush trade was booming, but nowadays only a few
old prospectors who still pottered about the dumps
ran a spore and took out their ’weights in booze.
“Pennyweight” Payne, Gus Brown and Andy
Macpherson were recovering from a week-end spent
on those terms. Mr. Budge had been threatening to
kick them out all day; but the three hung round for
as many pots as they could get out of him before
tramping off to their camp and starting work next
morning.
Barbe’s news, put a different aspect on the need
for sobering up and getting some work done. Ted
Budge realised that. Once in a way there was a
blow-in like this. Some old-timer struck a rich patch
and dropped in to quench his thirst. A man could
not afford to lose the chance of making money.
Mr. Budge fed him on corned beef to keep it
going. He was not going to be put off raking in a
bit of cash now for Bill McQuillan. There was an
old score Mr. Budge had never settled with Bill: If
what Barbe said was true and the Western Syndicate
started buying up the leases, it looked as if Genevieve
would come again. With the price of gold soaring,
more men about, the Palace might be a little gold-
mine on her own account in no time.
“This is the best news we’ve heard for many a
long day, boys,” he said. “Come and have a drink.”
“I’m not drinkin’,” Barbe maintained doggedly.
“Not till I seen Bill and told him about the crushing.”
“That’s all right, Barbe.” Crooked with rheu-
matism, his head screwed sideways, Mr. Budge was
all affable comprehension. “But a pot won’t hurt
while Alf’s fixin’ y’r boneshaker.”
“Come on, Barbe,” “Pennyweight” bleated. “Ted’s
been real hard on us all day.”
“Time you was doin’ a bit of work,” Budge
growled. “I’ll be bankrupt, carryin’ the three of you
like I done lately.”
“You bankrupt!” Gus jeered. “You’d do in an
abo. for his bardies.”
“Bill’d be the last one to see old mates with a
perishin’ hang-over”—Andy almost wept at the
thought—“and do nothin’ about it.”
Shouldered into the bar, Barbe drank to the
resurrection of Genevieve with the rest. They were
all old-timers who had prospected about since he and
Bill first pegged below the ridge from which the great
dump and poppet legs of the Lady Genevieve shaft
still scarred the sky.
He had not realised that the town might grow
if the mining companies got busy again, Barbe told
himself: Genevieve gay and prosperous with shops
and people under its row of forlorn pepper-trees. He
had been too worried about Bill to think of that.
It was such a nightmare Bill getting laid out.
Now that things were turning out like he had said
they would, too. For years they had wandered about
the country prospecting and' sinking on every rush,
from Black Arrow to the Barditon Ranges. Never
with as much luck as they had stumbled on at Gene-
vieve, and Bill had always hankered after the mine.
She had been abandoned for years when they came
back, negotiated for rights and started work on her
again. They had worked for months without making
tucker. Then Bill struck the old lode. It wasn’t until
this last crushing, though, that the Lady Jenny had
fulfilled his expectations. The fall of rock that caught
Bill had been lousy with gold. But it had smashed
Bill’s great strong body as if it were a rotten kibble.
Behind the bar Charley Hoskins measured
Barbe’s sombre mood and refilled the mugs.
“Last time I seen you and Bill, Barbe,” said
Andy, “you was pullin’ out of Genevieve. Why you
sold up the Lady Jenny beats me.”
Barbe caught Mr. Budge looking at him with
bright, sly eyes.
“We was fed-up,” he said irritably. “Sunk more
money in the mine than we got out of her.”
He walked to the door. “How’s she goin’, Alf?”
“Take me a couple of hours to patch her!” Alf
yelled from underneath the truck.
“You done no good on the old rush?” Gus
queried.
“Not much,” Barbe flung away from the door-
way.
“It’s always the way,” “Penny” muttered. “The
old prospectors get left when the crowd comes.”
Mr. Budge shambled from behind the bar and
opened a door.
“Here,” he said, “you chaps can have the parlor
and sit down comfortable while y’r waitin’.”
Barbe swore restlessly, looking back at the truck.
“Sit down, man, and take it easy,” Gus urged.
“Sweatin’ and swearin’ y’rself barmy won’t help Bill.”
“Come on, Barbe” —Andy grabbed his arm. “I
know how you’re feelin’. Alf’ll fix her. There’s no
harm in a drink to pass the time while y’r waitin’.”
A CARBIDE lamp, suspended from the ceiling,
spluttered, throwing a wan light and poisonous
fumes into the small, dingy room. The men huddled
on chairs about the table set in the centre. The gloom
of the room encompassed them. Its stuffy atmo-
sphere, the smell of stale beer and tobacco, of sweat
and dust, was familiar and soothing. Charley put
down a round of drinks. The smoke from Andy’s
and “Penny’s” pipes drifted up in a pale-bluish fog,
clouding the light. Gus fetched the makings out of
his pocket and made himself a cigarette.
Outside on the truck the fox-terrier howled as
Barbe disappeared from sight. He strode to the
window, threw it up and shouted at her.
“Gets on my nerves, the snivelling little bitch.”
He sank on to a chair. “Been carryin’ on like that
ever since Bill got hurt.”
“Bill’s dog?” “Penny” asked.
Barbe nodded wearily.
“How’d it happen—the accident, Barbe?”
“Search me,” Barbe said helplessly. “There was
only the two of us workin’ on the old shaft. Bill


would have he must do the firin’. I was boggin’
for him most of the time and cartin’ ore once a week.
All I know is I lowered him down, Saturday mornin’
last, and went off with a load to the battery. When
I got back it was near sunset and no smoke round
the camp. I shinned down the ladder right away
and yelled:
“ ‘Bill,’ I ses, ‘are y’ there, Bill?’
“Thought I heard a groan from a stope we was
workin’ in off the main drive. Found him at the
end of it, a ton of rock on him. It was a miracle
how he was alive, and how I got the rock off with-
out bringing enough down to bury the both of us.”
“Pore old Bill.”
“They said his chest was crushed in. By rights,
he shouldn’t have lived, but there was a chance he’d
pull through”
“He’s tough, old Bill.”
“You bet he is.”
“He’ll pull through if he knows you cleaned up
one hundred and fifty-four ounces, Barbe.”
“Too right.” Barbe shook off the horror that
held him. “We been in tight places before ; near
done a perish for water on Flynn’s. Christ, Bill
couldn’t go out now! Not when we got what we
been looking for all these years . . . and can play
merry blazes. I got to be going ... I got to tell
him. Is she right, Alf?”
“Right as rain.” The lad swaggered into the
parlor. “You blokes’ve got a start of me.”
Barbe pushed over a mug of beer.
Alf gulped it down and gasped: “I could do
another, Barbe. How about it?”
“Hey, Charley!” Gus called.
Barbe stood up. “I got to be goin’. I got to
tell Bill”
“Sit down, man! ” Gus shoved him back into his
chair. “Y’r nerves is shot to pieces. Better have
another drink to steady you.”
“Funny thing,” “Penny” piped up, “a few drinks
is no good to a man. You sober up, wonderful,
when you got a skinful.”
/'"'HARLEY trotted in and out of the room, shift-
ing mugs, replenishing them with warm, musty
liquor that slopped over the table. His figure loomed
through the smoky gloom. Drinks on the table
glowed like lamps, the dim light concentrated in the
beer and thick-handled glasses.
Barbe began to feel easier in his mind about Bill.
Beer brought the sweat out of him in a cooling
drench. The fret and fury of his mind abated. Now
that the truck was ready, he knew that he could
move on at any moment. Only the whimpering of
Bill’s terrier disturbed him.
“All right! All right! . I’m cornin’, Judy,” he
called.
“He’s a white man, Bill,” Andy McPherson said.
“You couldn’t find a whiter.”
“Too right,” Gus agreed. “Never turn a bloke
down for a couple of bob.”
“You been mates a long time, Barbe?”
“Near on thirty years.”
“First time I seen you, you was on
the Arrow. You’d a prdtty good show
there. Why’d you pull out?”
“We wa>s after bigger stuff.” Barbe
moved uneasily.
“Well,” said Andy, “you struck it here
when you pegged, didn’t you?”
“Original prospectors of Genevieve —
and all that? How’d it come you gave
the place such a fancy name?”
“Called it after a tart, didn’t you,
Barbe?”
“Tart, be blowed,” Barbe growled. “It
was Bill. He was always singin’ ‘Oh,
Genevieve, Sweet Genevieve’ ”
“He’s a great singer, Bill,” Gus
chortled. “When he’s got a few drinks in
you can hear him bawlin’ from here to
Laverton.”
“I got to be going.” Barbe heaved
himself up. “I got to tell Bilk He’d go
crook on me if he knew I was boozing
here with you chaps, and him waitin’ for
me to come along.”
“No good goin’ before the morning,
Barbe,” Gus countered. “They’d be all
asleep at the ’orspital. You couldn’t rouse
’em up—if you get there before dawn.”
Barbe sat down again.
“You don’t want to start an argument
with Bill when he’s showin’,” Andy
chuckled.
“Not if y’re not looking for trouble.”
“Remember the time he knocked out
Ted Budge on the Twenty-five Mile?”
“On the Arrow, it was.”
“I’m tellin’ you it was on the Twenty-
five. Wasn’ I there? Didn’ I see?”
“You got it all wrong, Andy,” “Penny-
weight” insisted. “It was on the Arrow,
and Bill”
“Call me a liar?”
Andy and “Pennyweight” wanted to
fight each other. The brawl lasted a few
moments and subsided with drinks all round. Andy
and “Pennyweight” started apologising and embracing
each other. Gus started singing. Barbe sat glowering
ahea'd of him.
“Ted hasn’ forgotten it, anyhow,” Andy chuckled.
“ ‘Hear that long swab McQuillan’s back,’ he says,
when you and Bill started work on the old mine,
Barbe. ‘He ought to be in gaol be rights. That’s
where he ought to be, bashin’ a man for makin’-up
to a girl he’d took a fancy to himself.’ ”
“Bill’d stiffen him if he heard him say that.”
Barbe stirred.
“All the time I’ve knowed Bill he’d never drink
in this pub,” Andy meditated.
“But the missus and Bill aren’t such bad friends,”
Gus thrust out his unshaven chin. Its scrub of
gingery-grey hair glittered. His eyes gleamed mali-
ciously.
“Shut your mouth,” Barbe muttered. “The old
wurt’s got long ears.”
He sagged in his chair, overcome by the beer in
his belly and the fumes of the lamp that spluttered
and flared feebly as if it were going out.
| T NDER the wide starry sky, the truck stood like
the hulk of a ship at sea. Bill’s fox-terrier curled
on a blanket folded over the driver’s seat, shivered
and blinked out over the grey surge of the mulga
stretching away to the luminous horizon. She whim-
pered now and then; but the men in the parlor had
ceased to notice her. They went on yarning and
quarrelling about Bill, the good prospector he was, all
drunk and slobbering over each other; and Barbe
sat among them, heavy with drink and misery, but
comforted by the noise and talk going on round him.
A telephone bell shrilled through the racket.
Charley heard Mrs. Budge taking a long-distance call.
“Mr. Flegg? Yes. He’s here,” she said.
She listened to a message.
“I’ll tell him,” she said, and came out and sat
on the wooden form outside the bar. She sat awhile
looking out at the stars and the dark wedge of the
ridge with the black lines of the Lady Genevieve
shaft scrawled against the sky.
Mrs. Budge must be done-up with the heat and
working in the kitchen all day, Charley thought. A
fat, formless figure, she sat there in a loose white
dress. She often came out like this in the evening
and sat there or walked down the road for a breath
of air, past the crumbling site of the old town-
ship and the glistening scrapheaps of broken bottles.
Her dull, weary face covered a dreamy youthfulness
as she came from the quiet night into the reek and
row of the pub.
She- had changed a good bit since she married
Ted Budge, put on flesh, cooking for Ted and bear-
ing children. Charley remembered the time when
she was a brown-eyed slip of a girl, and the rush
had been called after her. Jenny O’Neil, the boys
called her. There was a swarm of theJn, the O’Neils,
at Black Arrow. Her father was coughing his lungs
out when Ted Budge came along and wanted to
marry Jenny. Mrs. O’Neil had her hands full with
half a dozen kids to feed. She was glad enough
to get Jenny off her hands, though Jenny was sup-
posed to be Bill McQuillan’s girl. But Bill had gone
off prospecting. Nobody knew where he was, or
had heard of him for months, when Jenny married
Ted Budge. It was a slap-up wedding, too. The
guests had been drunk for days afterwards.
Then Barbe Flegg came in with a bag of rich
specimens. He reported alluvial and a reef show-
ing gold freely at fifteen feet on a ridge sixty miles
east of the Arrow, applied for a reward claim in his
own and Bill’s names, and the rush started. The
poppet legs of three mines straddled the ridge and
Genevieve was thriving when Ted Budge built the
Palace Hotel. Jenny arrived to housekeep for him.
Bill and Barbe sold their share in the Lady Genevieve
soon after and went off prospecting up north.
Genevieve flourished for four or five years. Then
the mines petered out. Miners and prospectors
drifted away. The mines were closed down and
abandoned. Houses and shops, deserted, fell into
ruins. Ted Budge was left high and dry in the
Palace Hotel, although he still managed to make a
good thing out of the traffic to Barditon, and buying
the gold of thirsty prospectors at his own price.
It was nearly a year since Bill McQuillan and
Barbe Flegg had started work on their old show
again. But it was quite right what Andy McPherson
said, Charley reflected. He’d never known Bill take
a drink in Budge’s bar. There was no love lost
between Bill and Ted Budge. Ted hadn’t forgotten,
if the drunks in the parlor had, why the old rush
was called Genevieve.
Her husband followed Mrs. Budge on to the
verandah.
“What are you doin’ out here?” he growled.
A surly, suspicious brute, he was always snoop-
ing round, grousing and ordering her about.
“I’ve got a message for Barbe Flegg,” she said
and walked past Ted.
She opened the door of the bar parlor and stood
looking in at the men there.
Barbe staggered to his feet when he saw her.
“I got to go,” he said. “I got to go and tell
Bill”
“It’s all right, Barbe,” Mrs. Budge said. “A
message came through just now. Bill passed away
an hour ago.”
Barbe slumped back into his seat beside the
table.
“Christ,” he groaned, “and he never knew that
crushing went one hundred and fifty-four ounces!”
“Pore Bill.”
“Pore old Bill.”
The voices uprose, maudlin and drooling. Gus
droned on, half-asleep:
“O Genevieve, sweet Genevieve,
The days may come, the days may go,
But still the hands of mem’ry weave” ....
Jenny’s eyes flashed from their dark brooding.
“Make him stop that! ” she cried.
“And not so much of the poor old Bill,” she
said bitterly. “He’s got the best of it, clearin’ out.
He was always good at that, Bill, clearin’ out when
he was most wanted.”
“Sir down, man!” Gus shoved him back into his chair. "Y’r nerves is shot to pieces.”


Brief Sketch of Childhood
5 SILVER
PIECES
BY E. DITHMACK
DRAWING BY RICE.
MRS. NORRIS had said, as she handed her
husband his wrapped-up lunch, “For goodness
sake, try and get a job to-day,” and the man
had replied irritably, “What the devil else do
you think I’ll be doing? Anyone’d think I was off
to the races.”
He slammed the door resentfully as he went out,
and his heavy boots seemed to echo defiance as he
went down the path.
Mrs. Norris returned to the kitchen and the task
of getting the three children off to school. Nellie, the
eldest, waited to help with the dishes and then, bag
on shoulder, kissed her mother good-bye.
“Am I to bring anything home?” she asked.
Her mother laughed bitterly. “Oh, yes. You can
get such a lot with two shillings, can’t you? Steak
and butter and tea” She caught sight of the
child’s puzzled face and burst out, as though her
thoughts must be unburdened to someone, “There are
times I get that worried I wish I was dead! ”
Nellie adjusted her bag slowly. “I could slay
home,” she suggested. “I could help.”
“No, run on or you’ll be late.” She kissed the
child and opened the door. Nellie hesitated at the
gate. The street was on the outskirts of the town,
and at the far end a dam held a sheet of shimmering
water. A few months before a woman’s body had
been found floating in the dam, and Nellie’s mother
had said, “Ah well, poor woman, her troubles are
over!”
Nellie had thought it a funny thing for anyone
to say, and now the memory of it returned. Suppose
her mother remembered to-day that other woman
whose troubles had ended and tried to do the same!
She walked slowly along the road, kicking the dust
and fighting an inclination to go back home. When
people brooded they did strange things
From the yard at the rear of a house some
guinea-fowl were cackling, “Go back, go back!” Nellie
paused, turned, slowly retreated. Kennie Banks, whizz-
ing past on his bike, called out, “You’ll be late if you
don’t hurry!” and was gone in a spiral of dust. Billy
Freeman, following, swiftly shouted a similar warning.
Again the child hesitated. If she went home,
what could she say? Her mother would only be
cross and think she was trying to get out of school.
In an agony of indecision she turned again. It
■must be terribly late. At the houses along the road
floor-rugs and bedclothes hung over the railings ; here
and there women were at the back fence talking. Not
another schoolchild was in sight.
Thoroughly worried now she decided to take a
short cut through a privately-owned paddock where
a large notice nailed to a tree announced
NO THOROUGHFARE.
Trespassers Will Be Prosecuted.
NELLIE slunk through the fence and skirted the
path running through the grounds. There wasn’t
a soul about. Everything was quiet and peaceful.
She could see the red roof of the house raised above
the thick green of poinciana-trees. The tennis-court
sprawled, quiet and deserted, its white lines vivid
against the grass.
Nellie went quietly past the garden. She was only
a little girl, she thought, and perhaps no one would
see her. Anyway, if she didn’t run all the way now
she’d be late and get into trouble.
No one was watching from the grounds or veran-
dah. She felt relief as she darted through an avenue
of bamboo-trees and saw the far gate. With only a
few yards to go she sped along the drive
and ran into a young man in riding
clothes just entering. She propped be-
fore him, her heart jumping in a way
that made her feel choking, her fright-
ened eyes looking into a pair of amused
grey ones.
“Nearly caught you that time, eh?” he said with
unnecessary loudness. “Where are you off to in such
a hurry?”
Nellie gave voice to the first thought that came to
mind. “I’m going for a doctor,” she said. “My
mother’s sick.”
“Oh, I’m sorry!” His voice changed sympatheti-
cally. “What doctor?”
“Webster.”
She looked him straight in the face, her eyes
suffused with the flush that seemed to Spread over her
whole body.
“You wait here,” he said, “and I’ll ring up for
you. It’ll save a long walk and a lot of time. What
name is it?”
“My mother told me to see the doctor,” she
evaded, “because I’ve got to get things in town. She —
she’s not that bad.”
He was amused at her earnestness. “All right,
then, run along and don’t keep your mother waiting.
Here” —lie put his hand in his pocket and pressed
some money into her damp palm—“get the first taxi
that passes, but only give him a shilling, mind. Keep
the rest for yourself.”
He held open the gate, and Nellie thanked him
as she sped down the lane. She felt no compunction
for the lie she’d told, only an exhilaration at thought
of what the money would mean. She imagined her-
self placing it in triumph before her mother—imagined
the steak for tea. She counted the silver pieces as she
tied them in a handkerchief and stuck it in the leg
of her bloomers for safe keeping. Five whole shillings.
During lessons her worries over the dam subsided.
While she wrestled with “mental” and geography life
took on a more normal aspect, and it was only when
school came out and she scampered home that her
fears awakened.
But perhaps everything would be all right. When
she got home she’d say, “Look, Mum, see what I’ve
got,” and place the shillings in a row. Then her
mother would look amazed and say, “Where ever did
you get that, Nellie?” and after explanations her
mother would say Nellie’s heart tightened. Sup-
pose when she got home the place was empty and her
mother gone! Suppose
CTHE rushed up the garden path and on to the
* verandah. The house was strangely still. Her
heart hammered in her throat. She pushed open the
door and listened, then burst into the dining-room.
Her mother looked up from her sewing with calm,
questioning eyes.
“You’re home early,” she said.
“Yes —I” Nellie halted for words while relief
rushed in on her like a tidal wave. “I hurried,” she
finished lamely.
“I suppose,” her mother accused, “you rushed
home to finish that book you’re reading. Well, you
can just go out and fetch me in some wood.”
The curt words slashed something inside Nellie.
She felt that she wanted to cry, but made no sound.
She kept the tears back behind her swollen throat,
feeling that her face was twisting, that soon shed
make funny whining sounds like a little dog if she
didn’t go outside.
“Run on,” her mother commanded impatiently.
The child sat down at the woodheap and slowly
filled her frock with chips. There was a dead sort of
pain in her heart as though something she loved very
much had died. There wasn’t any need for the money,
no need for anxiety; no need, she felt, for anything
just now.
THE PATH OF HIS BROTHERS
By R.H. AMOORE.
“7" HE flame flickering from the glowing log out-
f lined the dark, bea;»iless features of Warra-
kutchee. He sat cross-legged before the fire
and gazed in it with troubled eyes. From the
distant sandhills the melancholy chanting and staccato
thud of the womera-beat drifted in gusts on the
night wind. Eerie and plaintive, the shrill voices of
the lubras mingled with the deeper notes of the men
as they kept a perfect tempo to the womera-beat.
Ever since Warrakutchee could remember, the
preliminary corroboree of the initiation ceremony
had taken place at this time of the year ; but this
year it held a deeper meaning for himself. For some
time past Warrakutchee knew that the old men of the
tribe had noticed the signs of approaching manhood
in him, and he had been aware of furtive conferences
and preparations. He had noticed the old men col-
lecting the white, downy under-feathers of the wild
duck and ochres from the distant ranges for the
decoration of the principals. He had overheard
arrangements being made for the walkabout which
would follow the tribal ceremony. No word had been
passed to him of the part he was to play, but even
Barker, the station manager, knew that it was Warra-
kutchee’s turn.
“Close up time make you ‘young-man,’ Warra-
kutchee,” he had said to the boy with a smile. “Soon
you go walkabout, then come back for horse muster,
eh?”
Warrakutchee had evaded the question. Deep
in his heart lay a dark fear of the ceremony with its
attendant suffering. In past years he had seen his
elder brothers and other youths of the tribe leave
the comfort of the station quarters for the camp on
the hill, to return months later, emaciated and weak,
with corrugated cicatrices on their bony chests, totem
burns on arms.
Warrakutchee shuddered and fondly stroked the
sleeve of his red flannel shirt. In a few days that
would be taken from him; spurs, plaited belt and
boots would be exchanged for the hunting spear,
womera and boomerang. He licked his thick lips as
he thought of the steaks and sweets the station cook
provided for the “boys.” Soon he would be tasting the
acrid flesh of lizards, baked in the ashes.
Only yesterday he had heard Mr. Roberts, the
station owner, say to Barker, as they drafted horses
for town, “We could do with a boy like Warra-
kutchee at the depot. Good colt-breakers are damned
hard to get nowadays.”
To-morrow, after he had ridden the special ponies
for India, he would ask Mr. Roberts to take him
with him.
DOBERTS and his two daughters sat on the top
1 rail of the yard as Warrakutchee eased the bridle
over the pony’s head and with caressing hands and
voice adjusted the bit.
“You no hurtum me, me no hurtum you. Steadee
. . . wei,” he whispered.
The pony roached its back at the pressure of the
leather, but Warrakutchee held its attention with soft
rubbing of eyes and nose.
“Is he going to buck, Warrakutchee?” asked the
elder of the two girls.
The boy smiled confidently.
“Him buck all right. He cunnin’ pfeller this one.”
He gathered reins and mane in his left hand,
eased himself into the saddle, still murmuring, found
his off-side stirrup-iron and patted the pony’s neck.
Then. Warrakutchee .gave the pony a full length of
rein and touched its side with gentle heels.
“Ride him, boy!” Roberts called from the rails
as the pony suddenly dropped its head and bucked with
twists and squeals. With lips parted in a grin and
right arm extended like a tight-rope walker, Warra-
kutchee kept his seat, his body bending and swaying
to the vicious cbntortions of the pony.
“Dad, he’s off! The girth’s bust!” squealed the
younger girl as Warrakutchee and saddle were cata-
pulted from the pony’s back.
Roberts’s gruff laugh joined his daughters’ shrill
peals of amusement as Warrakutchee painfully rose
from the sandy yard and wiped a trickle of blood
from his nose. With flashing eyes and his body
trembling with wordless anger, he turned on the
scornful trio. His dark eyes filled with tears ; but he
said nothing and silently walked towards his quarters.
t N the velvety gloom of the night, as the corroboree
I song rose to a long-sustained note of triumph, a
dark, naked figure strode towards the camp on the
hill. It was Warrakutchee following the path of his
brothers.


The Bearded Lady Greets
THE
RETORN
OF BILL
BY
A.C. Headley
DRAWING BY LOCK.
SKINNY threw his fifteenth consecutive seven
with his home-improved dice and favored me
with a thoughtful stare.
“Listen, Scut,” he said, “I’ve been thinking
of Bill.”
“Which one?” said I.
“Bill,” Skinny emphasised, “that was in love with
me when I was the bearded lady.”
“Don’t tell me,” said I, looking apprehensive,
“that you return his affection. I thought that was
over and done with when we collected the cash from
his love letters. You gotter try and forget, Skinny.
It won’t do no good piniffl for your lost love.”
“I been thinking,” said Skinny, “that' there’s
money in the fight game, and I’m wondering how
Bill socked Sherdel and the way he filled our tent
for us until they started fighting back with iron bars.
He’s a natural fighter, Scut.”
“Yeah,” said I, “and all we’ve gotter do is go
up to him and say we’ve decided to make a champ,
out of you, Bill. And then he’ll thank us and run
away to pack his extra bootlaces. Yeah! The last
time I saw him he looked as though he was thinking
of entering a monast’ry. You broke his heart.”
Skinny rolled another seven.
“I’ll mend it,” he said. “I’ll go back as the
bearded lady and tell him that my ’usband beat me
cruel until I got a divorce. I’ll inspire him, that’s
what I’ll do.”
“Maybe,” said I, “he’ll remember his money and
do a little inspiring off his own bat.”
Skinny rolled his eyes, and the dice and a seven
turned up.
“Love hurdles hurdles,” he announced as gruffly
as was possible with his voice. “And listen, Scut,
look at the heavies to-day. Where are they? An
old-time flyweight could beat them all with a heavy
cold and one hand tied behind his back.”
Well, maybe Skinny was right. I’d seen some
of the damage Bill had done, and I could still remem-
ber the punch that had caused Sherdel to lose interest
in current affairs. It was one of those punches you
read about in a description of the heavyweight cham-
pionship of the world. If the champion uses it first
there’s an elimination contest to see who meets him
in four years’ time.
“Maybe,” said I, “he would make a fighter.”
AND so it was that on a particular summer after-
noon the bearded lady and I climbed from the
train at the street that the inhabitants insist is a town
and which was Bill’s environment.
The question was to find Bill. There was a chance
that he had been unable to stand the scene of his .
blighted romance and had left for parts unknown.
We decided on the pub as the most likely source of
information, and as we walked in Skinny pulled up
to stare at a feller that was just leaving with two of
the juiciest black eyes I’ve ever seen.
“Bill must be here,” said Skinny.
And there he was, breasting the bar and raising
his hat every time the girl brought him a drink. Where
ladies were concerned there wasn’t a perfecter gent.
I didn’t have a chance to say anything before Skinny
was over with him, tapping him on the arm.
“I’ve come back to yer, Bill,” he said with a sob
in his voice.
I’ve never seen a man more taken aback. But
even at that he managed to lift his hat and sag in
the middle in what he thought was a bow. And a
look came into his eye as if he didn’t know whether
to throw his beer at Skinny or kiss him. He did
neither; instead he whooped a lungful of air into
himself and said “Thora!” I knew our danger was
over.
“I ’ad to come back to yer,” said Skinny, rolling
his eyes. “I got good news, Bill. I got me divorce.”
Bill’s eyes looked like an ad. for car polish.
“I missed you terrible,” he said, looking mourn-
ful. “I didn’t sleep or eat for months.”
“You poor boy,” said Skinny, “my ’eart fair
bled for you. But now” —and he sighed—“now I am
free from that in’uman monster that blighted my life.”
“I’d like to knock his block orf,” said Bill.
Skinny was silent for a long time staring at Bill’s
beer, and then he said: “My hatred goes deeper than
that, Bill. I’d like to see him dragged in the gutter.”
“Where does he live?” said Bill simply.
“I’d like to see him broken,” said Skinny, doing
his best to be vehement. “I’d like to see him without
a penny, begging a crust from door to door.”
“It ain’t likely,” said I, chiming in for the first
time with my piece. “It ain’t likely. Not with him
managing the champion heavyweight boxer of Aus-
tralia. He’s coining money hand over fist.”
Skinny looked gloomy.
“If only,” he said, “we could find someone to
beat the champion.” He paused. “Bill, if only you
could fight.”
Bill raised his hat.
“I can,” he said. “I always beat these sideshow
fellers when they come to town. Some of them was
bigger than me, too.”
I nearly asked how.
“Yeah,” Bill continued, “most of them was cissies.
I on’y ’it ’em once and they didn’t git up.” He looked
mournful. “They don’t bring no more boxin’ shows
this way now.”
All of a sudden Skinny grabbed me by the arm
and acted all excited.
“We oughter do it,” lie yelped. “It’s a chance,
and I’d do anything to lower me ex-’usband’s pride
in the dust. We’ll train Bill to beat the champion.”
He turned to Bill. “I know you’ll help me, Bill.”
Bill shuffled his feet.
“Aw,” he said, “I dunno. I ain’t never fought
any real good fighters.”
“If you can king sideshow pugs with one hit
you ain’t got much to learn,” said I.
Skinny lifted a handkerchief to the veil that hid
his beard. “It’s to vindicate me honor, Bill.”
“Yeah,” said I; “and remember how much coin
he made you pay for those letters which was sacred.”
Bill took a gulp at his beer.
“I’ll do it,” he said, “for your honor, Thora.
You’re the only woman that ever understood me. I’ll
do it, and you gotter marry me if I win.”
Skinny pondered. “I promise faithful,” he said.
BEFORE we were much older we had Bill back in
the city trying to get the idea into him that it was
wrong to lead with his chin. It wasn’t that we were
so very worried about that point either, because when
his sparring partner did hit him it was generally a
case of jarred knuckles and Bill looking as though he
hadn’t noticed.
It wasn’t long before we got him stacked up in
a four-round prelim, which lasted just as long as it
took to swing his arm. The other pug took it on the
ear and the canvas sandwiched his other ear. Bill
looked as though it was just a practice round and
he was waiting for the fight to start.
That was the beginning. Then there were six-
rounders, eight-rounders and ten-rounders, and all
the time the paragraphs in the papers were getting
bigger, and they were beginning to mention Bill as
a championship prospect. Mind you, all the time he
was improving, and by this he was managing to dodge
one out of every ten punches.
Skinny’s love-life was beautiful. Everyday a boy
with a smirk on his face would deliver flowers and
thocolates. And Bill used to come around pretty
often and do a spot of mooning. They even got to the
stage when they were holding hands and talking
about the living-room curtains.
As long as it didn’t interfere with Bill’s training I
didn’t worry any.
He was laying them out stiffer than an under-
taker. It was only once or twice that the fight went
half the distance, and that was only because Bill’s
opponents could run faster. But once he caught up
with them and hit them that was the end. The only
drawback was the love affair. Skinny had got to the
stage where he nearly blushed, and Bill used to get
into a daze when he saw him.
It came about at last, and we got a match with
the champ. Asa matter of fact, the champ, couldn’t
have dodged it any longer. All the papers were
saying what a prospect Bill was, and asking questions
about whether the champ, would fight him or wait
till he was old enough for a pension. So the match
was arranged, and we began telling Bill just how seri-
ously he ought to take things, and Skinny was limit-
ing his cream tarts to about seven a meal.
Bill wasn’t worried at all.
“It’s in the bag,” he said. “What you want
to do is pawn everything you got and put it on me.
I could lick this feller if I was in a strait-jacket.
There ain’t no one kept away from my punch for
ten rounds, let alone fifteen, an’ I been hit hard enough
to prove that they can’t knock me out. You do what
I tell you—bet all your money on me.”
Skinny attended to our betting. Bill’s mother
had told him that it was wicked to bet, so we didn’t
use any of his money, although Skinny tried hard
to convince him that it wasn’t betting if you couldn’t
lose.
“Me mother’s agin it,” said Bill, “an’ I gotter
abide be ’er wishes.”
Well, the night of the fight arrived at last. Bill
was as good as we could make him, and if confidence
meant anything Bill was the new champion already.
“I’ve only got to catch him and hit him,” he said.
They climbed into the ring, the referee gave the
usual speech, and Bill came back to his corner to
wait the bell.
Skinny was at the ringside, and he called out
“It’s to vindicate me honor, Bill.”
Bill grinned.
The bell went, and the fight started.
For the first five rounds Bill did nothing but get
hit, but Skinny and I weren’t worried any; we knew
it was only a matter of time before Bill caught up
with the champ. And the fact that he was getting
hit meant nothing, because he didn’t show any effect.
A couple of rounds later I could see that the
champ, was beginning to get a little tired. But at the
next spell, when Bill came back to his corner, he said
something that made me think.
“What was Thora’s husband’s name?” he asked.
“Cameron,” said I, giving him the name of the
champ.’s manager.
“That’s funny,” said Bill.
The bell went for the eighth round before he
could say any more. And in this round Bill started
to do his stuff. It was nothing sensational, mind, but
he began hitting the champion a glancing blow every
ten swings.
“What’s funny?” said I when he came back after
the round.
“It’s funny,” said Bill, “because I met him this
afternoon. And that ain’t all—l met ’is wife an’ kids
too.” He looked at me accusingly. “An’ I trusted
you an’ Thora.”
“There’s some mistake,” I managed to stammer.
Bill grinned. “The only mistake is the one you’ve
made. I ain’t goin’t’ win this fight. In the next round
I’m goin’ t’ get knocked out. I fixed it up with the
champ.’s manager. An’ you can tell Thora that I’m
through.”
I dived for Skinny and spilled the beans. What
amazed me was the way he took it. He just looked
at me. And then a noise from the crowd made us
look at the ring. Sure enough there was Bill on his
back on the canvas while the referee beat time.
“All right,” said I, turning to Skinny. “Tell me
you got conscience-stricken and you’re glad we lost
our dough.”
Skinny looked at me.
“Listen, Scut,” he said, “sometimes I wonder how
you tell the time. It was me that sent the champ.’s
manager and his wife and kids to Bill. I bet all our
money on the champ.!”
“You what?” I yelled.
Skinny repeated.
“The funny part about it,” he added, “is the
champ.’s manager ain’t married!”


ROUNDABOUT
Arena.
Mr. Rufe Naylor having kindly invited us out
to behold the sport at the Arena, “Australia’s Madison
Square Garden,” we went along, hoping it might be
our additional pleasure to also behold Mr. Naylor.
It was, but somewhat distantly, where he stood in
an enclosure above the five-bob section, entertaining
us from time to time with loudspeaker reminiscences
of Donaldson, Postle and other exponents of the mer-
curial hoof, varied by occasionally dressing down the
bike-race judges in traditionally royal style.
“Come on now” —in a voice charged with brim-
stone —“let us have those results at once, and see
you’re not so slow next time!”
It seems as if they could do with a Mr. Naylor
in China at the moment; some might feel that he
would be no superfluous addition to Australian royal
commissions, either that is, of course, if such an
atmosphere would not be repugnant to him.
At any rate, he kept proceedings moving at such
a bat that competitors in races six events apart would
not have had time to nip out for a pot of fresh air
even if the dispensaries had been open. Though it
was the opening night and the Arena was largely in
a state of chaos, 28 assorted events were run on
the tick of schedule, the only competitor not on the
mark on time during the whole evening being a lady
one, which hardly counts.
Spectator.
As for our personal view
of Mr. Naylor, this was con-
siderably hampered by a mas-
sive bowler. A noble specimen
of its kind, this lid rode on his
ears like a crash helmet, or
Darby getting up in the last
stride.
It completely obliterated
the unique thinking apparatus
which qualifies Mr. Naylor to
be held far and wide in great
reverence and respect as the
Master Mind of the Turf, but that did not prevent his
winning our own heartfelt esteem by making the
shortest opening ceremony speech ever heard. He did
it in two sentences, one of which was that it gave him
“great pleasure to introduce board-
track racing to this great country of
ours,” and the other, “Now bring ’em
out for the first heat, please.”
At that peremptory invitation out
they came, representing a variety of
nationalities—a procession of young
chaps and chapesses whose limbs and
sense of humor alike are so splendidly
developed that pushing bikes is a
pleasure to them. One by one, shoul-
dering the standards of their respec-
tive countries, selected representatives from among this
assemblage of athletes then circumnavigated the track,
an effective picturesqueness later continued in the con-
quering heroes among them doing the same triumphant
circle hung with laurel wreaths.
More colorfulness supplied by the racing signals, a
whistle, a gun, a bell and a foghorn doing damage
to the welkin, so that, what with the clittering
noise of the spinning
machines, the sometimes
audible puffing of the
hurtling competitors, the
crowd rising up for last
laps and roaring its collec-
tive head off, the loud-
speaker’s running commentary, the shrilling of
the whistle, the clanging of the cowbell, the pop-
ping of the gun and the foghorn’s clownish honking,
the general gathering of gods might well have looked
down with amazement on the hullabaloo, and Mars,
perhaps, with envy.
Beat Maurice Chevalier in a beauty contest.
The “wooden bowl,” which is how its familiars
style the racing track, is a white-boarded contrivance
which to the lay eye looks like a soup-tureen after two
surrealists had had a tug-o’-war with it. Rising fan-
tastically high at the ends of its drawn-out-oval shape,
sweeping down to comparatively modest banking
along the sides, seven laps to the mile around and
demonstrated on the night to be excellent for its pur-
poses, the track encloses, inside a fence of pig-netting
(decorated with flags of all nations and bunches of
flowers), a miniature turfed oval about 100 yards long
for footrunning sprints, with a surrounding turf track
for distance running. Powerful light globes festooned
around, of course, with a string of colored lights
across the track marking the winning post. All this
set somewhere amidst the tangled wilds of Surry Hills.
On the narrow turf oval in the middle of the bowl
congregated the athletes and their offsiders, each com-
petitor apparently attended by two or three dozen
trainers. This, it should be said, in no way interfered
with the view of the sport, the centre seeming from
the surrounding heights to be sunken somewhere down
near the First Politician’s headquarters.
Representing a variety of nationalities.
The Donnybrookian assemblage down there and
the pretty large gathering of spectators perched above
the “bowl” were assailed throughout proceedings by
fast-running loudspeaker commentary on every aspect
of the sport at hand.
This wordy barrage—though, as it seemed to us,
colorful and’ competent—got noticeably on the G-
string of various boisterous spectators, who displayed
their lack of appreciation for Marconi’s gift to civilisa-
tion by waging a vigorous but losing battle against it
with enthusiastic “Shut-ups!” all evening. The com-
mentator was also freely ad-
vised to “chase himself,”
“drown himself,” “bottle it”
and “go for a walk, for
Gawd’s sake,” but he stuck
staunchly to his guns, and, as
a matter of fact, never once
sounded like losing.
Information imparted by
this means dwelt largely on
the past famous performances
of the assembled athletes:
“Harris Horder, since he left
Australia, has soared to the
highest peaks of fame that
America has to offer—sprint
champion of a great track-
racing country.” It also in-
Rufe.
eluded such evidence of the remarkable versatility
of some of them as that the French representative,
M. Faure, had beaten none other than Maurice Cheva-
lier in a beauty contest.
Leaving the merits of that performance to the
assessment of experts, we have pleasure in recording
that after he’d won his bike-race heat this versatile
Frenchman had also to sustain the amazonian charge
of a young lady present, who flung her arms about
his neck in what the loudspeaker described as “true
Continental fashioji,” clung to him like a goanna to
a gum-tree, and treated him to an embrace that would
have done credit to the technique of Greta Garbo.
In a commendably
brief space of time —as we
have said, the events were
run off with remarkable
punctuality—the obviously
impulsive leading figure of
this spontaneous little im-
promptu was up at the
microphone explaining why
she did it, in a voice as
sincere, throbbing and
soulful as any we had
ever heard, even in
amateur theatricals.
She did it, she- j
said coyly, in a loud-
Like a goanna to a gurn-tree.
speakered whisper that must have wrought havoc to
plaster ceilings throughout Surry Hills, because, “Oh, I
think he is simply wonderful, and I would like to kiss
him a thousand times.” Which delicate sentiments hav-
ing been rounded off with the loudspeaker’s stentorian
“Well, good luck, miss, and I hope you enjoy the
sport,” this idyllic scene was brought to a close, unless
it should be mentioned, by way of anti-climax, that
the gallant Frenchman and the reps, of all other
nations to boot were subsequently well and truly
licked by an Australian who had never won a beauty
contest in his life, and probably never will, and who
enjoys as well the somewhat unromantic name of
Rogers.
Meanwhile the sport was proving to hitherto un-
initiated eyes surprisingly entertaining. Against the
white background of the banked track the bike-
pedallers speeded at a pace calculated to evolve a
new, swivel-necked race of spectators within a genera-
tion. Twenty or so of them taking the precipitous
end turns together in a hurtling cavalcade that looks
like a full-dress rehearsal of imminent catastrophe
is a spectacle warranted to convert a synod of Yogis
into an eruption of yelling dervishes.
A dandy sport, this bike-racing. Certainly a big
advance on the original treadmills.
WATER-RATS
BY G.C.B.
‘ ‘ /*"* OME on, Ernest,” ses Mrs. Raggles, bustlin’
l about after lunch the other Saturday. “We’re
V' . goin’ to the meetin’.”
“Meetin’,” I ses. “Wot meetin’?”
“The Ladies’ Boat Club meetin’,” she ses im-
portant. “Miss Pilkington ’as started it so us ladies
can ’ave pleasant exercise and fresh air on the river.
We’re all payin’ in so much a week to buy Gribble’s
boatshed and rowin’ boat.”
“Wot!” I ses, starin’. “That old shed’s failin’ to
bits, and the boat ain’t got no bottom in it.”
“Exactly, Ernest,” she ses, smilin’. “That’s why
you’re cornin’. Us ladies ’ave ’ad a talk over it, and
we’ve decided that as the club can’t afford to spend
much money our ’usbands will do all the repairin’
work voluntary.”
THEM ’usbands didn’t look a bit voluntary when
I joins ’em up at Gribble’s shed. They stood
around lookin’ the picture of miserableness while the
wimmen told each other ’ow ’andy their ’usbands was
at doin’ odd jobs around the ’ouse. Sam Stedman, who
’ad been a carpenter before he took the ironmongery
shop, looked the miserablest of all; and the things
Mrs. Raggles said about me bein’ wonderful at paint-
in’ made me feel like kickin’ meself for whitewashin’
our fowl’ouse a few days before.
After the wimmen ’ad decided to make a club-
’ouse out of ’arf the boatshed, they went inside and
stood lookin’ at that rotten old boat as if it was the
Queen Mary or somethin’, an’ arguin’ wot color I
was to paint it after Stedman ’ad done the repairin’.
Pore old Stedman starts pointin’ out that the river
was choked up in parts with old tree-stumps and
things, but he shuts up quick when Miss Pilkington
smiles kind at ’im an’ tells ’im we needn’t bother
shiftin’ ’em out till we ’ad finished the repairin’.”
And then I butts in.
“There’s something I’d like to point out, ladies,”
I ses quietly. “This old shed ain’t ’ealthy on account
of the rats wot ’ave their nests under it.”
Miss Pilkington gave a little start, and Mrs.
Buxton ’olds ’er skirt tight around ’er legs and looks
about anxious.
“ ’Ow do you know there’s rats ’ere, Raggles?”
ses Mrs. Armstrong, whose ’usband is the ’ealth in-
spector.
“Me practised eye tells me, Mrs. Armstrong,” I
ses. “There ’undreds of ’em around ’ere.”
“I see,” she ses, nasty. “I must mention it to
my ’usband. You’re the ratcatcher, and you should
keep ’em down.”
“Quite right, Mrs. Armstrong,” I ses, polite. “And
when the council supplies me with a divin’ suit or a'
submarine I’ll keep down water-rats.”
“Oh, water-rats!” she ses to Miss Pilkington.
“That’s different. We needn’t worry about them —
they’re quite clean animals.”
“Fairly clean,” I agrees, noddin’. “Of course,
they grow terrible big and fat and bloated because
of bein’ in water all the time ; but if you don’t
mind a bit of noise on account of them havin’ their
’omes under your feet there’s nothin’ to worry about.”
That made ’em think a bit, and Miss Pilkington
says she don’t like the idea of sharin’ their club’ouse
with ’undreds of rats of any sort, and Mrs. Buxton
says she ain’t so keen on boatin’ anyway; but me
’opes was dashed when Mrs. Raggles tells me next
night that Mrs. Armstrong ’ad found out from ’er
’usband that there ain’t never been a water-rat seen
in the river.
“I see,” I ses quietly. “Well, if Mr. Armstrong
knows so much about rats, it’s a funny thing he ain’t
got my job. I tell you, Emma, I’ve seen them ’oles
all along the banks, and I know they’re owned by
water-rats. And, wot’s more,” I ses, firm, “I’m goin’
to prove it.”
“ ’Ow?” she ses.
“Never mind,” I ses. And that night, withoul
sayin’ nothin’, I slips away and goes up to the river to
catch a water-rat to bring ’ome to ’er.
J T was ’ard and dirty work paddlin’ about in the
I mud, diggin’ at them ’oles in the bank, and after
an hour’s ’eavy diggin’ without findin’ one rat I was
ready to drop. ’Owever, me pride as a ratcatcher
wouldn’t let me give up, and I stuck to it for another
hour, diggin’ away like mad; but in the end I ’ad
to admit meself beat.
I straightens up at last and trudges ’ome, weary
and dirty and disappointed; and when Mrs. Raggles
asks me curious the next mornin’ ’ow I’m goin’ to
prove them water-rats was there I pretended not to
’ear ’er.
But I was right after all. Them rats was there in
their ’undreds, just like I said, because they ’ad done
so much burrowin’ under the shed tryin’ to get away
from me that before us voluntary workers ’ad a
chance to start on the repairin’ work the bank give
way, and the shed and the boat slipped into the river
complete; and Miss Pilkington, after examinin’ the
wreckage sorrowful, ’ad to give up the idea of er
Ladies’ Boat Club.


a
m
and
Me
mu
ArdathS
6*
ecial
p
10 FOR 9d. ALSO FLAT AND
ROUND 50’s AND 100’s BOXES
“My friends say that Ardath
Specials are the cigarettes they
are prouder to offer —what is
also true is that ‘Ardaths’ have
a refreshingly mild —yet some-
how —a delightfully satisfying
flavour. This grand combina-
tion I have never found in any
other cigarette.”
Ardath
SPECIALS
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
7144-11.7


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
w
A ,~ s
' wr
V
BapWßiwHl
■
HHS®
■lliiii
... .. V|| ,:...,. 11 jyfi. ..... “ I
wiirirefe/ ■’.'■■ ,•*
Vi® 5g.. . ;<v •,-* i - s -s* , * s*. 4r*j> \
ffl 1 HB6ii*l brfs . .... •._ r£m. ft ft /" i«Mfc ftS&t >* aslsfafA
.f* - , '
»' i . c, ft
. ».
mi
I £
MTV’
US.
»i
'> \ «** vV’ " 1 * A > .
'. i? ’ :*. ■<: .5 ,/*■■ - .** ... ' % ft
ft-
jr „ --n
I.
1
■
j Ml
■ V
P v -& f
Hi “irlfeJl
ft- ys' ‘ |
J*
■f
Grape Picking in Seppelt’s Royal Purple Para Vineyard.


NO INVITATION.
“Buzz off or I’ll book you!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch {Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
UNCLE SAM'S SETTLEMENT.
For Australians and Maorilanders, the most signi-
ficant feature of the Panay affair is that the settlement
was effected without reference to the British Govern-
ment. The United States Government closed the
chapter without even waiting for the Japanese reply
to the British Note concerning H.M.S. Ladybird
and the tugboat which were fired on by Japanese
on the wild day which saw the sinking of the Ameri-
can gunboat. It almost looks as if the American
Secretary of State was anxious to join in the favorite
European pastime of snubbing Mr. Anthony Eden.
That glass of fashion and mould of form had, in
the House of Commons on December 22, boasted of
the foreign friendships he had formed. Thanks to
him (this was understood), Britain had gained the
love and trust of “the nations of the Balkan and Little
Ententes, whose territory - stretches from Turkey to
Czechoslovakia.” But they are not naval Powers, and
“any course of action in the Far East must depend
upon the co-operation of other nations besides the
members of the League.”
An important aspect of the situation, and perhaps
the only one to-day which can be viewed with satis-
faction, is that Britain is constantly in consultation with
the United States. Over and over again Britain and the
United States have taken parallel action, indicating
the closeness of their collaboration.
Washington bluntly replied that the U.S.A. was
“still following a course of independent action and
judgment in the Far East without contemplation of
joint action with Britain or any other Power.” That
was published on December 23.
The Japanese Note repeating the earlier apology
and pledge that the responsible parties would be
punished, and “promising to exercise the greatest
caution in every area where warships and other vessels
of America or any third Power are present, even at
the sacrifice of a strategic advantage,” was delivered
on December 24. The U.S.A. Government’s reply was
“unprecedentedly” prepared on Christmas Day. It
“observed with satisfaction the promptness with which
the Japanese Government admitted responsibility,
expressed regret, and offered to make amends,” and
conveyed “the earnest hope” that the Japanese meas-
ures would “prove effective.” Then Mr. Hull in-
formed the newspapermen that the trouble was over.
Naturally, this almost brutally frank intimation
that the U.S.A. stands alone has been wasted on the
Sydney flapper press. The ‘-‘Daily Telegraph,” which
discovered three months ago that President Roosevelt
had declared “for positive action against Japan” and
that Australia must be in it (the U.S.A.’s “positive
action” was to take the form of an oil boycott), has
now discovered that, “in the face of Japan’s con-
tinued violation of international law in China, Britain
and the United States are rapidly approaching a close
understanding.”
The year draws to an end with prospects of an
Anglo-American bloc in defence of peace and democ-
racy In foreign affairs to-day isolation is impossible.
It is this fact that President Roosevelt is trying to
impress on his countrymen.
This extraordinary paper also assures the President
that the United States is “just as interested in the
fate of Austria as in that of Panama.”
The Sydney “Sun,” always lavish, would extend
the bloc to France, the Netherlands and (of course)
the Soviet. “One more Panay incident and the Far
Eastern pot will boil over.” So its Special Correspon-
dent in London has been informed by a High Author-
ity, and the High Authority, declaring that “Britain
and America are acting on parallel lines,” summoned
up a vision of “the Artglo-American fleets converging
somewhere near Hong Kong.” Another “Sun” writer
dropped into figures and found that “the Democratic
Front,” Russia (of course!), the U.S.A., Britain and
France, had 381,000,000 people and £6,300,000,000 of
annual revenues, whereas the Fascist Front could
muster up only 180,000,000 people and £1,290,000,000.
This dismal sort of arithmetic had a vogue during the
Great War, especially during the period when it was
argued that, even if the line had been bent back a
bit, and broken in places, the Allies were “killing
Germans.” It was implied that if, at the end, the
Allies were left with two soldiers and eighteenpence
while the enemy had but one soldier and one shilling,
the Allies would have won the war.
The newspapers that want blocs and fronts —the
British specimens are more blatant than the Australian
—were wrong about Abyssinia, wrong about Spain
and wrong about China ; and they have been wrong
about Russia all along. Now these deluded rags are
wrong about the U.S.A.
It ought to be clear to the meanest intelligence
that the Americans won’t fight in Asia or in Europe
unless the existence of their republic is recognisably
at stake; and why should they? And why should
Australians and Maorilanders be dragged into a hor-
rible war to “save face” for the Chiang Kai-sheks, or
to'prop up Red rule in Spain, or to preserve the French
conquests in Africa, or to keep Czechoslovakia, “the
synthetic republic,” going a little longer, or to prevent
the “Union” of Socialist Soviet Republics from flying
apart? According to the strict letter of Geneva law,
Australia and Maoriland can be involved in war for
any or all of these purposes; but their first duty and
that of Britain is to themselves and their Common-
wealth, not to an exploded instrument which has
been repudiated on all sides.
The Geneva writ runs nowhere—not even in
Switzerland. When “sanctions” were “enforced” the
Swiss said they were neutral. The Belgians have also
declared themselves neutral. And the Danes pride
themselves on having disarmed, though they haven’t
dismissed their police force. But all hands and the
cook are willing to let Britain and the Dominions boy-
cott a rebellious member-nation or have a smack at
Germany, Italy and Japan, especially the Red Rus-
sians and the Left-Wing French.
The prowess of Russia is still the theme of effusive
articles in Australian newspapers, articles which read
suspiciously like Moscow propaganda. But the fact that
the Moscow Government, even while the Japanese are
pulverising its ally China, has renewed a disputed
fishing agreement with the Government of Japan is
more eloquent than acres of such newspaper articles.
Taken together with the frenzied shootings of Old
Bolshevists, and the ferocious suppression of seditious
movements from Karelia to the Caucasus, and from
the Baltic to the Pacific, it suggests that the Reds’
hearts are in their boots, and that in a war with the
Germans and the Japanese they know they would
crack up in a few weeks. And it is doubtful whether
the distracted French could or would do more than
defend France and try to defend their colonies. The
value of the French Air Force is seriously questioned ;
the “sacred union” of 1914 no longer exists, and an
attempt to invade Italy might lead to a repetition of
the 1917 mutinies on a more serious >6cale.
Granted that the sinking of the Panay was a more
serious affair than the shelling of the Ladybird or
the bombing of H.M.S. Scarab and H.M.S. Cricket, it
is in no wise flattering to our national pride to see
the Japanese falling over themselves to apologise to
the Americans and letting the English wait. It is a
startling illustration of how British prestige has waned
since Mr. Baldwin and Mr. Ramsay MacDonald made
the League Covenant “the cornerstone of British
foreign policy,” and Mr. Eden began performing in
the Foreign Office.
If Canning or Palmerston could revisit the
glimpses of the moon, he would marvel at the fatuous-
ness of his successor in driving Germany, Italy and
Japan into one another’s arms. Apart from being
exposed to the common danger of a deluge of civil-
war propaganda from Russia, distributed by the Com-
munist Internationale, of which Stalin is secretary,
these countries have no real bond of union. Italian
and Japanese interests are severed by half the width
of the world. As for the Germans, they can never look
with satisfaction on the Japanese occupation of the
Carolines and the Marshalls, or on the Italian posses-
sion of part of the homeland of one of the most
patriotic German tribes.
If the Italians and the Japanese attacked or threat-
ened British interests (it has never been proved that
they have done either), the Foreign Office should have
come to terms with Germany. If an accommodation
with the Germans was out of the question, it should
have kept sweet with the Italians and the Japanese.
Actually, there was no necessity to fall out with any
of them. All three nations have made repeated pro-
fessions of friendship, and it would have been better
to accept these at their face value (while keeping the
Empire’s gun oiled and its powder dry) than to let
the feeling sink in that the British Government is in-
fluenced by unspeakable prints whose favorite term
for the rulers of these nations is “gangsters.” No
country or any combination of countries wants to
fight an Empire which could not be conquered with-
out involving the conquerors in hideous ruin.
But Britain needs to return to its old policy of
minding its own business. Its business is big enough
to occupy the most gifted set of rulers, and too big
to admit of their meddling in the affairs of other
countries and backing wrong horses and rotten allies.
Wanted, a "National" Year.
With the kind of celebrations which committees think
suitable to such occasions, Australia will this month
begin to remember the 150th anniversary of its foun-
dation. Every State has now passed its centenary in
a welter of arches and symbolical floats ; the Sydney
celebration is to have larger and better floats, longer
and hotter marches and more and bigger trombones.
Before it is all over, onlookers may wish that the
venue of the celebrations could revert to its original
condition:
A spot at the head of a cove, near a run of fresh
water, which stole silently through a very thick wood,
the stillness of which had then, for the first time since
the Creation, been interrupted by the rude sound of the
laborer’s axe and the downfall of its ancient inhabitants.
The water is still there—under several feet of rock,
asphalt and cement —but it is no longer fresh. Round
the edges of the cove laborers are working in com-
pressed air on an unfinished railway, the cost of which
is kept a departmental secret. And the very thick
wood has made way for a forest of buildings into
which every morning pour half a million people. As
a sort of footnote to history, the Sydney civic authori-
ties have planted saplings in the streets — Mediter-
ranean saplings.
In the first year of settlement the colony cele-
brated the anniversary of the birth of King George
111., who had provided many of the inhabitants with
a free sea voyage and several years of free board
and lodging. On that day (in the absence of their
jubilating herdsmen) half its tiny herd of cattle set out
on a journey which ended in the establishment of the
first cattle station, 40 miles away, at Menangle. They
and their progeny were not discovered for several
years. Not long before, the Cape of Good Hope
having been taken, Australians acquired from the
Dutch commandant, a Hollander named Gordon, who
had entertained Macquarie and Bligh with his Gaelic
songs in 1788, the first half-dozen merinos.
To look back to that time is to watch the history
of several strata of sweating effort. In Macquarie’s
day there was a town, superimposed on a military
convict camp. By 1820 settlement had spread across the
Blue Mountains and some distance down towards the
Murray. Ten years later there were many great estates
on which retired officers and retired convicts lived in
patriarchal state on the produce of convict slavery.
In ten more years the convict era was dead, and Aus-
tralians were beginning to think of themselves as a
people.
They went through periods of expansion, and
periods of want like the Hungry ’Forties, when a cow
could be bought for five shillings and a sheep for a shil-
ling. They went through times of hectic prosperity like
the Roaring ’Fifties. They faced local rivalries, prob-
lems of distance, hardship, exertion, flood, fire. They
sent their young men to four British wars. In the
World War they were represented by the greatest
army ever transported for such a distance overseas,
superior in numbers and not inferior in fighting
quality to any army commanded by Marlborough,
Wellington or Raglan.
In process of time they built cities bigger than
any which had existed in the Western world,
London and Paris excepted, when Australia was
first settled. They produced pastoralists, in-
ventors, engineers, scientists, plant- and stock-breeders,
fliers, artists, writers, generals and a few statesmen.
They made Australia one of the earth’s greatest
sources of textile material, metals, grain anid fruit.
They vanquished most of the influences which
might have spelt or which still might spell ruin to white
settlement. Some remain to be conquered, and the
anniversary year would be a good one in which to
start to deal with them.
In the bullock-dray days Australians brought up
large families under conditions unbelievable to post-
war youth. They grew to nationhood toiling with
their hands in the bush. In these motor-car and
aeroplane days the tendency is to have small families
or no families at all, and to herd into coastal cities,
leaving old up-country callings to a diminishing rem-
nant. Almost the only thing which has gone bush
of late years is the old ideal of One Flag, On& Nation,
One Destiny.
It is true that there is an Australian “Common-
wealth,” but the term is interpreted by provincial
politicians to mean a national reservoir for the distri-
bution of money to feed their pomp and foster the
growth of sectionalism. Besides the Commonwealth,
which is all that Australia needs, there are six super-
fluous shows masquerading as sovereign States, each
with its Parliament, its Cabinet and its expensive
establishment, each with its transport, taxation and
education “systems” and a dozen other duplications,
each with a teeming capital, absorbing more and more
of the population.
In the growth of the excrescences called States
there has not only been huge waste but a loss of
freedom. Citizens are taxed by some exorbitant
authorities on the taxes they have paid to others. Petty
border tyrants, thought to have been scattered for
ever in 1901, have started up again. Last year the
people repelled an insidious attack on inter-State Free-
trade, but their right to travel with goods from State
to State has been challenged, thus far successfully.
Yes, the Anniversary Year will be a time for
breathing new life into and giving fresh impulse to
the grand old aspiration of Australians who are dead
and gone, making it One Parliament, One Nation,
One Destiny.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Poison-gas Journalism.
Last week a Los Angeles daily discovered “a flotilla of
alien submarines operating off southern California.”
About the same time the Paris “Figaro” learned through
an Italian correspondent in China that “not many years
will pass before the little yellow men will proclaim
their right to develop Australia’s enormous unex-
ploited riches.” And a report that “370 anti-war advo-
cates” ( i.e ., Reds) had been arrested in Japan drew
from the Sydney “Sun” the sneer that “the military
authorities who control the Government may be
trusted to quell without much trouble any outburst
of intelligence amongst the civilians.”
When Lord Halifax was about to visit Germany
on his peace mission, a London afternoon paper came
out with the assertion that Hitler had offered to
waive his colonial claims for 10 years in return for
“a free hand in Central Europe”—that is to say,
British permission to carry fire and sword into that
part of the world. In the same vein Swiss newspapers
certify that Hitler, visiting a Nazi training centre in
Bavaria, found 30 cadets guilty of “molesting girls and
women and firing pistols at crucifixes and sacred pic-
tures,” and “personally tore off their shoulder-straps.”
Anti-British Italian journals and anti-Italian British
journals swell the roar of objurgation and contumely,
and radio announcers add to the infernal din.
The League which has let the world down so
badly was described in the beginning as “a League
to enforce peace.” Perhaps the best way of enforc-
ing peace would be to gather up all the lying corre-
spondents, all the provocative chroniclers and com-
mentators and all the bellicose editors and ship them
to Tristan da Cunha for at least two years. Then the
average man and woman, who are decent and kindly
all the world over, and who do not hate unless in-
flamed, would get an opportunity for dispassionate
consideration of their relations with other members
of the human family, and true men of peace like
Lansbury could continue their labors in the atmo-
phere they need.
Spanish-war Diary.
Dec. 21. —It is definitely established that the key
city of Teruel, which the Spanish insurgents have been
defending for months, has fallen to the loyalists. The
rebels gathered in the Teruel bullring, which con-
stituted their last redoubt. When the bullring fell
loyalist columns marched through the town, followed
by the cheering inhabitants.
Barcelona, Dec. 23. —The capture of Teruel sent
Barcelona wild with joy. Fighting, however, is still
in progress.
Madrid, Dec. 23. —The Government captured
12,000 prisoners, many heavy guns and piles of equip-
ment at Teruel. Senor Negrin, the Prime Minister,
watched the attack from the start. The republican
flag is flying in most of the suburbs and several places
in the middle of the city. A seminary on top of a
hill has been converted into a fortress and is holding.
out.
London, Dec. 23. —The British Labor party sent
the following cablegram to Senor Negrin: “All lovers
of freedom throughout the world rejoice at the signal
blow struck at Teruel for Democracy against
Fascism.”
Barcelona, Dec. 23.—The loyalists have com-
pletely occupied Teruel. All resistance has ended
except on the Mansueto heights, six miles distant,
where the insurgents have taken refuge. The fall of
the Mansueto heights is expected hourly.
Barcelona, Dec. 26. —Fierce street fighting is
taking place at Teruel. The insurgents still hold a
sixth of the old city, and are strongly entrenched in
the Bank of Spain, the seminary and the barracks.
The Government believes it can enforce their sur-
render by starvation.
Madrid, Dec. 27. —Teruel is surrounded by loyal-
ist forces, and it will be only a matter of time before
the opposition is crushed. The seminary and the
Civil Governor’s residence are the only places in which
the rebels are holding out, and both buildings are on
fire.
Barcelona, Dec. 29. —The loyalists have captured
the Teruel seminary. The defenders driven out took
refuge in a convent near by. Both the seminary and
the convent are on fire.
London, Dec. 29. —Haggard and aged by their
terrible experiences, the defenders of the seminary at
Teruel surrendered at last in the face of fearful odds.
Ninety Civil Guards and their officers slouched in
dead dejection to prison. Some of the rebels man-
aged to scramble from the seminary into the court-
yard of the Santa Clara convent; however, the con-
vent, too, is afire, and cannot hold out for long.
London, Dec. 30. —A British United Press,corre-
spondent at Teruel “got within 10 yards of the semi-
nary walls to-day. Republican dynamiters penetrated
the buildings, but 1000 soldiers and 1000 civilians are
still inside. Sometimes when the dynamiters entered
rooms they were mowed down by a hail of insurgent
bullets at point-blank range. The republicans may end
this dramatic but costly form of assault by blowing
up the seminary with mines.”
London, Dec. 31. —The insurgents claim to have
smashed the Government’s left wing and centre at
Teruel. Three hundred men, women and children
emerged to-day from the blazing Teruel seminary, in
which the insurgents are reduced to the last extremity.-
The three hundred said they had been imprisoned as
hostages in the seminary cellars for over a year.
Barcelona, Dec. 31.—The bank at Teruel, where
the insurgents were holding out, has been blown up
by dynamite, and the reservoir supplying water has
been besieged and destroyed. The republicans admit
that they have fallen back under terrific pressure from
their positions to the west of Teruel. They deny,
however, that this movement has endangered the secu-
rity of the town, which is defended by the strongest
lines.
London, Jan. 2. —The fate of Teruel remains
unknown. Over the week-end the rebels issued reports
amplifying their claim that they had recaptured the
city, with tremendous loss to its defenders. The loyal-
ists declare that the relieving forces are still three
miles and a half from their goal.
The story, pieced together from the foreign news
with which Australia is favored, will have to be left
unfinished. Even in its incomplete form, judged as
an example of the art of winning wars with fountain-
pens it challenges the ‘most heroic performances of the
panegyrists of “the terrible Gofas,” “the creeping
Fanno hunters” and the Chinese Reds, those “acknow-
ledged masters of mobile warfare over a shifting
front.”
Communications in the Territory.
One of the striking features of the Payne report is
its note on railways serving the Northern Territory.
The line from Darwin to Birdum cost £2,760,000 to
the end of 1936. Its earnings that year were £33,000,
its working expenses £41,634. The deficit arrives as
regularly as the monsoon.
Port Augusta - Alice Springs cost £4,787,000.
Revenue for 1936 was £101,000, working expenditure
£138,000. These figures take no account of interest —
£124,000 p.a. on the northern section and £188,000 on
the southern, or 2\ times the revenue of both. Were
it not for new mining developments the position would
be much worse.
The southern line is fairly well served with
modern rolling-stock, which cost £476,000. But the
northern rolling-stock, including engines, “has been
in use since the railway was built in 1889.”
Most of the waste vis attributable to the begin-
ning of development in the wrong spots. The southern
line, which connects Alice Springs with Adelaide,
980 miles away, runs through the low-rainfall belt of
northern S. Australia and the sand across the border
into an area which, the Commission believes, may one
day carry 300,000 sheep.
The northern engines, which will give the Terri-
tory a chance to celebrate their golden jubilee next
year, waddle through hundreds of miles of inferior,
unproductive country before they reach a belt cap-
able of even moderate development. Of the Port
Augusta-Alice Springs Messrs. Fletcher and Payne
write: —
It seems almost incredible that this line should
have been built.
They have recommended the construction of two
other lines joining the north-west Queensland railway
to the Barkly country, and Wyndham (W.A.) to the
Fitzroy.. They seem to have come to the reluctant
conclusion that there are no alternatives.
Only One Funeral.
An Australian National Airways liner, the Lepena,
landed at Wagga (N.S.W.) on its way from Melbourne
to Sydney with two pilots and five passengers.
For the present, Wagga has one of those “aero-
dromes” which are just paddocks. It is leased by the
council from a private owner for £50 per annum, the
owner retaining grazing rights.
The pilot in charge found 50 cows disputing pos-
session of the ground. He swerved sharply, and part
of the undercarriage of his machine collapsed. The
starboard wing and fuselage were damaged, and two
out of four propellers were smashed. Luckily there
were no casualties.
As a rule, a taxi-driver meets the ’plane, and by
arrangement with the council before a landing is made
he drives the cattle out of the way. This time he hap-
pened to be at a funeral. Passengers no doubt felt
delighted that he would not have to take another day
off to attend their funerals.
Wagga has not the only “aerodrome” of the sort.
They are all to be modernised some day, but the
Defence and Postal Departments require time for
such operations. Their motto is “To-morrow is also
a day.”
Chance for Another Dickens.
G. K. Chesterton described the American experiences
of Martin Chuzzlewit as “the blazing jewel and sudden
redemption” of Dickens’s novel. Martin was inter-
ested in fever-ridden swamp land in Eden.
The Sydney Government was interested in man-
grove-swamp land on the foreshores of Homebush Bay
on which Government brickworks were built, and in a
parcel of earth at Erskineville on which Government
pipeworks arose. Evidence given to the royal com-
missioner who is inquiring into the disposal of those
enterprises suggest that if Dickens could start up in
the land to which he sent Micawber he would find
enough material for a couple of chapters that
would be “the blazing jewel and sudden redemption”
of the present inquiry.
A. E. Barton, a chartered accountant, was the
witness. He was asked by counsel whether conveyanc-
ing difficulties had been experienced in connection
with the land transactions. “In 1933,” he replied
gloomily, “I heard of nothing else. There were tremen-
dous difficulties about titles.”
Nobody seemed to know who owned the land on
which the brickworks were erected. Part of it was a
mangrove swamp, on which surveyors had to work
, for months, sometimes. up to their waists. The Rail-
ways Department ran a line through the middle of the
brickworks. The City Council erected a transformer
station and the Water Board a pumping station on the
land. A public road ran partly on the brickworks land
and partly on Harbor Trust land.' No. 2 plant was
built on land belonging to the Meat Board.
The pipeworks were built over two or three lanes in
Erskineville dedicated as public lanes but never used.
It all arouses wonder as to what complications would
arise if private enterprise in a weak moment were to
take over, say, the N. S. Wales Government railways.
Outsorts and Border Settlements.
Melbourne “Age” has been sending a man round
Victoria’s Western District. When he reached Port-
land, he found the harbor “a magnificent sheet of
water,” as many others had done before him. But
magnificent sheets of water have no attractions for
Big-City politicians unless they are within a few miles
of a superfluous Parliament House, so “there seems
little immediate chance of Portland being made a ter-
minal for handling wheat in bulk, although it appears
the natural place for a terminal.” And another
obstacle has been thought of.
A great deal of produce would undoubtedly come to
Portland, instead of going to Adelaide, from Mt.
Gambier, but for the double fees that farmers have to
pay on their own motor vehicles, if they desire to
carry their goods over the border to Victoria.
The recent history of border settlements in Aus-
tralia is full of such efforts to sprag the wheels of
progress and prevent inlanders from getting their right-
ful share of the benefits of modern invention ; and
they have been all too effective. These provincial
barriers will never be swept away until the people
decide to make freedom of trade, commerce and com-
munications a living thing instead of a scrap of paper
which Big-City politicians and boards ignore when
it suits them. And the people will have to launch
their own reform movement. Worth-while reforms
never originate with the kind of politician inflicted
on Australia nowadays.
The Aboriginal Viewpoint.
“Dungeness” : A variety of totally irreconcilable
views has been expressed of late years concerning
the future of the aboriginal in Australia and the
methods which should be put into practice for the
salving of our national conscience on a sore subject.
Anthropologists desire a system which will preserve
tribal ritual and native customs. Missions want to
replace tribal ritual by Christianity, and native
customs by white ones. Pastoralists in the Far North
see aboriginal salvation in terms of employment as
stockmen. Unionists hold that aboriginals should get
the same wages and employment conditions as
whites. And Dr. Donald Thompson, back from two
years in Arnhem Land, says that Canberra’s brick wall
of officialdom and “circumlocution that would defeat
enthusiasm and sacrifice” render the outlook hopeless.
Until the Aboriginals’ Friends took up the ques-
tion in Adelaide, it did not seem to have occurred to
anybody to elicit the views of Australian citizens of
aboriginal descent on the subject. David Unaipon,
a full-blood, Mark Wilson and George Rankine, half-
castes, all men of white education and proved ability,
expressed themselves clearly and definitely.
They consider that the whole question is one for
the Commonwealth Government. Complex and
varied conditions will have to be taken into considera-
tion at the outset, but within a generation at most
these will resolve themselves into plain and practical
shape, given a sound and continuing plan of action.
The basic problem is that of absorption into
white-race conditions, on a definite standard of educa-
tion, character and general fitness for citizenship.
Decision should be made by special tribunals possess-
ing definite knowledge of the subject, not by magis-
trates. The system should include, from the outset,
pure- as well as mixed-bloods (with whom the larger
beginning might be made), and “aboriginal” should be
the descriptive term to cover both.
Older people of the station-black type, settled in
their ways of life, should be left to observe tribal
laws and customs, but deliberate efforts should be
made to equip the younger generation for transfer
to a white environment. The same methods should
be followed with “mission natives” and the detribalised
or partially detribalised generally. They would neces-
sarily require adaptation of detail according to the
conditions existing over an immense range of
country and a complexity of outlook amongst old
and young alike. That is, at the outset. But the
outset is only the beginning, and a good start might
be made now.
The special-area idea beloved of anthropologists
simply means keeping the natives in barbarism and
ignorance, say Mr. Unaipon and his essentially Aus-
tralian colleagues. Australia’s job is to bring them
out of the vStone Age and into modern useful life.
On the Land Now.
“D.A.”: It isn’t quite “the lot austere” that it often
was even 20 years ago. It is brightened by book clubs
and Country Women’s Associations (God bless ’em!);
and the car, the utility and wireless, plus improved
roads, have done much to make bush isolation,
except in odd corners of the ranges and valleys, a
thing of the past.
To-day it is a common thing to see contingents
of outback children trekking about the cities and the
beaches. A generation ago it wasn’t necessary to
reach out to “far” points of the compass to find
lads and lasses in their late teens who hadn’t been
to a capital city. The writer was born near the Cow-
pastures, not 40 miles from Sydney, but ten miles
from any railway. There were nine in the family,
all brought into the world without the assistance of
doctors or trained nurses. The first time most of
those children saw the city was when they left their
country school and went to work.
That was the sad thing—they all left the country ;
and they were more dazzled by the city than if they
had spent part of their childhood in it. Girls
especially, in the jazzy, rapidly-changing post-war
era, seemed to dread returning to the bush.
But I have an idea that present-day children
won’t get the city craze so badly as their parents did.
Even some fathers and mothers, fed up with con-
fined spaces, would take more kindly to a country
life these days. Cars, wireless and talkies are now
doing a major national service ip country districts.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Jamwood”: A friend in
the fire-insurance business
would like to get in touch
with the builders of that
seminary in Teruel, Spain, if
they are still in the flesh —
which is doubtful. He admires
them as greatly as he de-
plores the tendency of Aus-
tralian edifices to be too
dashed combustible, es-
pecially when insured for
large amounts. “See that
piece in the paper about the
seminary?” he said excitedly
to a party in the club. “The
good old place is still in
flames. In flames, mind you ;
and I make it the fifth day.”
But that seminary is unique
for at least one other reason.
On Thursday its “rebel de-
fenders, 90 Civil Guards
and their officers, surrendered
at last”—to the “Argus” and
the “Daily Telegraph.” On
Friday “S. M. Herald” and
the “Age” “approached
within 10 yards of the semi-
nary walls,” and found
“1000 soldiers and 1000
civilians still inside.” Eight
days previously Associated
Press and the Independent
Cable Service had taken the
whole of Teruel; and “Terewth” took it
again on its own account. Astonishing
the things that can happen, when news-
papermen are about, “in a little Spanish
town.”
* * * *
“E.H.M.”: The crew of the Kyilla, the
Douglas DC3, have come to dread the
approach of a sightseer. Anxious to
exhibit. their sky monster, the owners
sent her to Rockhampton (Q.) so that
the burgesses might share their pride in
her. About eight thousand people rushed
the barriers, fought to reach the door,
clambered over the wings, smeared their
initials on windows and began to carve
their names on the wings. The entrance
steps went in one glorious crash. Still,
when the Kyilla left for Townsville all
her salient parts were intact. When she
departed from Townsville, after some-
what similar experiences, one of the
things missing was the tail-light.
“V.E.”: As a friendly forewarning to
those American naval men who are to
be in Sydney on January 26 let me
mention that this country possesses
some of the ablest and most persistent
souvenir-hunters on the face of the earth.
When H.M.S. Hood was in Australia the
pressmen aboard were not spared—one
was stripped of his toothbrush, hair-
brushes and cigarette case during an
admiral’s at-home. The Hood itself
lost some of its utilitarian parts, one of
which weighed 121 b. and was fastened
down by quarter-inch bolts. Intense was
the Royal Navy’s admiration for the re-
sourceful technique which consummated
the removals. Apropos, the Common-
wealth Government once placed a large
direction plate on a stand on Red Hill,
Canberra. It is now no more.
“Erua”: The sketch “Bush Dates”
(B. 29/12/’37) recalls that it’s not only
in the backblocks outstanding events are
used as time marks. An Australian re-
cently returned from San Francisco
found that there time was reckoned as
before or after the great earthquake. In
Rotorua (M.L.) things always are said to
have occurred before or after the Tara-
wera eruption" of 1886. And Sydney
has now caught the idea. “How long
ago was that?” a man was asked at a
semi-official inquiry the other day.
“Well,” said he after consideration, “it
was before the Bridge!”
* * * *
“Ming”: To fiction-writers on the
lookout for plots for mystery thrillers
Hyde Park, Sydney, offered a neat little
case recently. A man was found, shot
dead, lying on one of the seats of the
park, but an extensive search failed to
reveal any trace of the weapon, which
the finder of the body declared was no-
where near when he noticed the man. It
looked like a murder, and the police
were working on that theory when a
man arrived at a suburban police station
with the revolver. He had picked it up
while going to work across the park
before dawn.
* * * *
“Pat McGinty”: “Sandpatch” (B.
29/12/’37) says “next to the Pope the
“You cut that rope and I'll never speak to you again!”
world’s most important ecclesiastic is
his Grace of Canterbury.” I don’t want
to start a religious brawl, but might I
suggest it depends how you look at these
things? F’rinstance, there’s a young
fellow in Tibet who’s not only a pontiff
but a king as well. He not only rules
over all his Tibetan subjects but is also
worshipped by millions in Mongolia,
China, Siberia and even in Russia-in-
Europe.
* * * *
“Sailor Once”: Sydney’s evening sheet
was in error when it reckoned the Yankee
fleet of 1908 was “the first American
warships to visit Australia.” The
Brooklyn, a more powerful cruiser than
the British' flagship (Royal Arthur, 7000
tons) then in these waters, was in Syd-
ney in 1901, when she also visited Mel-
bourne and several M.L. ports. About
the same time two ships manned by
American naval officers and ratings were
constantly plying backwards and for-
wards between Sydney and Manila
supplying American troops in the Philip-
pines with Australian meat and other
items. Although commonly referred to
as the “beef-boats” they were units of
Uncle Sam’s navy, and were accorded
all the usual courtesies as such by H.M.
ships.
* * * *
“Double Express”: Cabled that the
War Office is equipping infantry units
with anti-tank rifles weighing 36 pounds
and firing a 550 bullet. A big powder
charge will be necessary, and in spite of
the weapon’s weight I wouldn’t care much
for the job of firing it. The ordinary
British double rifle of 500 calibre weighs
about 121 b. and the charge is about 80
grains smokeless powder with a muzzle
velocity of over 2000 ft. a second. Even
in the hands of an accustomed shooter
the weapon is a punishing one, and the
tank affair, which would require firing
much more often in action than a big-
game rifle, sounds like a weapon to let
your mate handle.
* * * *
“F. and H.”: One of our very
amiable German visitors has been telling
us that it is not correct style to call him
either “Baron von Cramm” or “Von
Cramm.” His label is not “Baron” but
“Freiherr.” The “von” must be preceded
by the “Freiherr,” failing which “Gott-
fried Cramm” may be used. It recalls the
experience of a person in the Papua of
long ago who bore a German name. One
evening, in his cups, he was boasting that
he was really entitled to the prefix “von,”
which is equivalent to the Scottish “of”
before the name of a landed estate owned
by the individual or his family, as in such
cases as the Master of Sempill and Mac-
donald of the Isles. It leaked out, how-
ever, that his name meant in German
what the press is accustomed to refer to
as “an outhouse,” and after that we heard
no more of the “von.”
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: The classic
apt reply to an examination ques-
tion in engineering circles is that
of an applicant for a steam driver’s
ticket who, told to describe the line of
action he would adopt if he found the
water level in a boiler had fallen below
the safety limit and the steam pressure
was rising rapidly, replied “Run!” A
little more diplomatic was a tram-con-
ductor who sought promotion to driver.
Set the question “What would you do
if your tram was running on a down
grade and you found that your brakes
would not act?” he wrote: “Alter
destination sign of tram to Special and
jump off.”
“Cape Blackwood”: “Colonel Bung-
starter” (B. 29/12 / ’37) gets deeper into
the soup correcting me on the subject
of the Tugeri. My first paragraph on
the subject does not say the Tugeri were
Western Papuans, as “Colonel B.” asserts.
I learned they were Dutch subjects some
40 years ago when talking in Brisbane
with Captain Butterworth, commandant
of the Papuan A.N.C., who was with
MacGregor in the famous “battle.” I
picked up further information about them
when I took up residence in Papua five
years later. “Col. B.” slips badly with
the assertion that the Tugeri were moun-
taineers and never used canoes. They
were seagoers, and all their raids into
British New Guinea and the Torres Strait
islands of B.N.G. which had been in-
cluded in Queensland territory were
made in these canoes, which they paddled
standing up. MacGregor gives some
vivid descriptions of these fleets of canoes,
which he met on several occasions, but
was able to deal with the last time only
because they stuck, with uncanny instinct,
to Queensland territorial waters where he
could not penetrate.
* * * *
“Beach Rod”: Schoolmarm at Glebe
found one of her young hopefuls was
not in attendance one morning. A lady
introduced herself as the missing one’s
mother. Young Jacky, she said, refused
to come to school and would not get
out of bed. Could teacher give any
reason? Was anything wrong at school?
Was he due for punishment? Teacher
could not say just why Jacky would not
come this morning, but advised mother
not to worry. “You’ll find him up and
dressed when you get home.” “Not
much he won’t,” retorted mamma, pro-
ducing something from the front of her
blouse. “I’ve got his pants!”
* * # *
“D.C.T.”: “General Prac.” overlooks
one great advantage in writing medical
prescriptions in Latin (B. 22/12/’37).
They can be made up by any dispenser,
whether he be French, German, Italian,
Spanish or Dutch, and that frequently
comes in handy when travelling.
* * * *
“Claremont”: If ever I have to seek
sanctuary in my old age I shall beg a
passage to W.A. for enrolment on the
books of the Old Men’s Home at Ned-
lands. I know of no similar institution
anywhere so ideally situated and where
inmates are treated with such considera-
tion. The home occupies a site worth a
fortune; the view across the beautiful
Swan to the faintly-blue Darling Ranges
can be likened to the Italian Lakes coun-
try. In my days, not so many years ago,
there were high revels at Christmas-time.
Bowling teams by day and concert
parties at night (May Holman, M.L.A.,
was a favorite performer) beguiled the
hours ; in addition the old men had a
picture-theatre of their own. William
Padbury left a sum in trust to provide
them with smokes and beer. The
Swan Brewery and other generous donors
used to weigh-in with offerings also.
* * * *
“Pfister’s Ghost”: During the anni-
versary celebrations in Sydney, I read,
“the cardinal principle to be observed all
through is historical accuracy.” I hope
Mr. Dunningham’s general history is
more accurate than his proposed illustra-
tion of the landing of Phillip—in Farm
Cove, Sydney, where Phillip didn’t land.
Phillip erected a stone at the head of
Sydney Cove (Circular Quay), intimating
that he “landed in this cove with the first
settlers of this country.” Proceedings are
to be opened with a corroboree—at 8.30
a.m., an hour at which no respectable
abo. ever held a corroboree. The “first
landing” will be by marines with fixed
bayonets. Actually, it was made by
some of Phillip’s officers. Who was
first ashore is disputed, as is the site
of the landing-spot, though it seems to
have been on a beach on the north side
of the cove. The natives in Mr. Dun-
ningham’s landing will brandish their
weapons and receive gifts; they kept out
of the way of Phillip when he first
stepped ashore. It seems that all that is
needed to make the modern ceremony
perfect of its kind is for the saxophones
to strike up when the flag is unfurled and
for the pioneers to be received by a dele-
gation headed by Jack Lang holding a
ribbon for the visitors to cut.
* * * *
“Murr”: We irrigation-blockers took
our families for a fishing trip to the Mur-
rumbidgee. We travelled 72 miles, and
three miserable catfish were the sole re-
ward of our efforts. Returning home in
disgust I walked across to my mailbox on
the far side of the irrigation channel,
and down in a rough trap I had rigged
below the gravity fall were ten of the
finest Murray cod I have ever seen, the
smallest a five-pounder.
’THIRTY-EIGHT.
Step right in! We’re glad to greet you,
Square and straight,
And uncommon pleased to meet you
At the gate.
You’ve an extra-special worth here.
Century-and-a-half on earth here,
We salute in you our birth-year,
’Thirty-eight.
With your gaily-hailed arrival
We now wait
For the pageantry-revival
Of the date
When illustrious Phillip rounded
Capes unmapped and shores unbounded,
And this burg of ours was founded,
’Thirty-eight.
You shall see the primal cleavers
Of our State
(From the bush) at work like beavers
Early—late,
Whatsoe’er their rank and station,
Laying the secure foundation,
All unknowing, of a nation,
’Thirty-eight.
Welcome, as the year we’re out to
Celebrate,
Raise an anniversary shout to,
Loud and great!
Welcome, you who come to scan us
And to bygone days trepan us,
For a memorable annus,
’Thirty-eight!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Hekite”: The M.L. Government in-
tends making compulsory the daily
dozen and all sorts of physical exercises.
And, judging by the Nelson “Evening
Mail’s” version of a speech by Prime
Minister Savage —
We have made a substantial beginning.
We will make more progress if the people
will stand behind up.
—retired businessmen, aldermen and
others will find some of the exercises a
trifle difficult.
* * . * *
“Chevroford”: Two new bridges are
to be thrown across the Yarra. One
will leap out of the city at the point
where Russell-street slopes steeply down
to Flinders-street past the State Theatre,
hurl itself across the railway yards, and,
springing lightly over the Yarra, will
descend amidst the Alexandra Gardens.
. A smaller brother will span the river a
mile further upstream. The estimated
cost is in the region of £300,000; the ob-
ject, to relieve the growing congestion
which makes Swanston-street at least
four times a day an almost continuous
queue of stationary vehicles stretching
for a mile or more into the business
area.
He * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Reported that Macao —
Cidade de Santo Nome de Dios de
Macao, in full —is in the market and that
"Hey, Maggie, slip on y'r clothes and come over. This fire's a beaut.!"
Japan is likely to be the only bidder.
Macao is a few hours’ steam from British
Hong Kong. Camoens composed his
poems there, and St. Francis Xavier re-
tired there to die in exile. The astounding
rise of Hong Kong deprived Macao of
commercial significance, the harbor
began to silt up and for half a century
it has practically been forgotten, except
by English bank clerks who sally across
on Sundays to leave their payrolls on
the gambling tables. The Chinese game
of “po,” the Macao lottery, a lot of
opium, and a few crackers and tobacco
have kept it going. It is a sleepy but pic-
turesque blend of old-world European and
Chinese architecture and of modern in-
dustry. The faqade is all that is left of
its great cathedral. Portuguese Eurasians,
who go to serve in British and American
business houses, are as important an
item of export for Macao as half-caste
stewards are for Goa in India.
* * * *
“Sandpatch”: Long experience
of nearly all the pubs between
Rockhampton and T.I. has con-
vinced me that the average nor-
therner likes his drink straight.
South-west Queensland can run
rings round the North when it
comes to mixing them. A popu-
lar concoction out there consists
of two tablespoonfuls each of gin,
French and Italian vermouths, a
tablespoonful each of cherry
brandy and Curasao, with a dash
of maraschino and bitters. It is
known as “Heaven and Hell.”
“Audrey”: Since my par. appeared
(B. 22/12/’37) there’s been yet another
piling-up off Kangaroo Island (S.A.).
An Adelaide yacht, the Stormy Petrel,
on a holiday cruise, struck one of the
island’s submerged reefs. It makes the
collection of wrecks 24.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Let me in with a fashion note,
even if it is printed in small type:
The pretty women seductively displayed
their teeth as they smiled and languorously
moved their long limbs, clothed in trans-
parent tulle. Their naked feet were en-
cased in red leather sandals, their hair
fell on to their necks in innumerable stiff
little curls. Fashion was perplexed and
continually searching for something. There
was one dominant motive, however: to
expose the feminine form, showing up the
movement of the limbs, revealing the turn
of the hips and the alternation of the thighs
and allowing the wind to press the light
envelope of muslin and organdie against
the naked body. The modiste Lisfrand
and her colleagues grew daily more daring;
underclothes disappeared bit by bit.
It would pass for a contemporary pic-
ture, wouldn’t it? Yet it is actually from
a sketch of Paris during the Terror of
1794—Friedrich Sieburg’s study of that
cowardly ruffian Robespierre.
H« # * *
“Ex-Roundsman”: The Sino-Japanese
broil has caused many a sub-editor to
curse the infernal tangle of place-names
which are continually getting themselves
mixed up in the headlines. I did come
across some useful hints for, at any rate,
making a guess at correct spelling and
locality. Pei or pe is north; nan,
south; tung, east; si or hsi, west.
Ho, kiang or chiang means river ; hu,
lake ; hai, sea. Shan means mountain.
Foo or fu is a first-rate toWn or county,
chow a second-rate one. But in a
language where one Mandarin mono-
syllable may have 25 different meanings
“ If'e don't catch somethin soon it'll be san'wiches for lunch!"
in one of four tones —not to speak of
the other three or of the other eight in
the Cantonese dialect —it seems a pretty
hopeless job.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: England holds
new risks nowadays for gay lads who,
aided by a smart car, pursue the engag-
ing sport of picking ’em up. Spotting a
pretty brunette tripping down a Wolver-
hampton street, one such emitted a
cheery hail and inquired whether she
was too proud to speak to anyone. The
lady did not reply, so he followed in a
“gutter-crawl,” repeating his inquiry.
She then informed him that she was a
plainclothes officer of police on traffic
duty, and Lothario promptly stepped on
the gas. A second applicant for trouble
wanted to know where she was going
that evening, and stopped in a number
of places, which caused inconvenience to
traffic as he pursued the subject. He,
too, made a record start when she un-
masked her guns. Each contributed three
quid in fines next day, but the shock
to the faithful old amour propre must
have hurt even worse.
#
“El V.”: Part of Melbourne “Argus’s”
leader page on Christmas Eve was given
over to a picture showing a large number
of neatly-tied parcels —“To Mother,” etc.
—lying drearily in a flat and sandy desert
with a couple of drooping palm-trees in
the background and a rising sun trying
to compete with a risen star, which looked
more like a Verey light than anything in
nature. In the centre was a conventional
card with the verse:
Christmas! and loving thoughts fly swift
Friends’ thoughts of us, our thoughts of them.
Hail, season of the kindly gift,
Sweet heritage of Bethlehem!
Bethlehem, of course, is a rocky, moun-
tainous little town with flat roofs and a
winding street. Far more appropriate
was the seasonal greeting of a comp,
from Scotland, printed on cardboard:
Wishing you a guid New Year
for
1938, 1939, 1940, 1941 and 1942.
* * * *
“T.”: I wish these newspapers would
give the word “brilliant” its long-over-
due rest. A Sydney journal trotted it
out seven times in about 10 inches of
type, awarding four “brilliants” to an
esteemed doctor whose death it chronicled
and three to tennis-players engaged in a
doubles match. However —doubtless by
a supreme effort —the paper refrained
from saying that the tennis-players “rose
to great heights.”
* * * *
“C. 8.”: One of J. F. Archibald’s best
efforts in the turning of journalistic wood
into glittering descriptive diamonds was to
write of a certain type of Scandinavian
sailorman as having a hand like a whale’s
ear. Fortified by personal investiga-
tion of two vast corpses at Twofold
Bay, one of which, as a humble puller
upon an oar, I had helped to capture, I
had the temerity to inform him that
whales don’t have ears, not at least to
show outside. “Whales have got to have
ears if they are going to be published in
this paper,” he replied grimly. “Any
earless whale goes into the basket.”
SIGNS OF THE TIMES.
“The number of divorce petitions filed in Sydney
last year was 2230 —a record.”
Where is Depression? Vanished from our ken,
One with the autumn leaves and winter
snows,
Though whether or when it may return again,
It seems, is more than anybody knows.
But here is something positively shows
Hard times have definitely run their course:
Never before did twelve brief months dis-
close
So many applications for divorce.
Years there have been, no doubt, when fewer
men
Resigned themselves to unemployment’s woes
Because their services with pick or pen,
Muscle or brain, were not required by those
Who of such necessary jobs dispose.
But never such a matrimonial force
Trampled before on one another’s toes
Bearing aloft petitions for divorce.
Were there more weddings? Did John Citizen
Array himself more oft in bridal clothes?
Were there more births per capita than when
Poverty stalked among us? Stone the crows!
In either case it’s any odds the Noes
Have it. But there’s a surer, safer source
Of knowledge how we’ve weathered For-
tune’s blows
Contained in the statistics of divorce.
When things are crook, misfitting belles and
beaus
Endure their bonds as best they can, perforce.
But when the pinch of res angusta goes
It’s hey for Justice Boyce and a divorce!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


j
ĵ
20/orl o'
10 for JK
WIBB4
All over the world Craven A
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality.
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIAL!.’
f
mmm
. m
!!!|||
THE > CO R K TIPPE
: THIS GENERATION
POLITICAL POINTS
Every Australian wheatgrower won-
dered what the devil the Lyons Govern-
ment was doing and where he came in
when he read in the cables that the Brit-
ish Government was paying £5,000,000
for an option on the entire Canadian
wheat harvest, for which a price of
£100,000,000 had been arranged. The
authority was the London “Daily Herald - ’
(Labor). Australia is flooded with
foreign news and propaganda disguised
as news from the same source, but rarely
has an opportunity of verifying it. It
was afforded one in this case. The
Canadian Government replied that there
was .not a word of truth in the report.
Half a dozen more N.S.W. Labor
worthies became candidates for expul-
sion last week. They issued a mani-
festo to the effect that the party on which
Lang has conferred his leadership cele-
brated—with the usual Victory Social —
its “ninth consecutive defeat” in October,
and that on general principles they are
fed up. After that, for a few hours, the
beating of their own hearts and then the
creaking of Lang’s expulsion machinery
were the only sounds they heard.
Though the Commonwealth will have
to convert £71,917,400 of maturing loans
next December, Stevens, according to a
U.A.P. paper, plans a loan boom on his
own account, borrowing through the
Water Board, the Newcastle and Broken
Hill local authorities, the Transport De-
partment and what not. If he tries it on
it will be the duty of the national Gov-
ernment and the Commonwealth Bank
Board to ask the nation to turn him
down cold.
The last House of Commons debate on
foreign affairs found Labor and Liberal
politicians full of mouth-valor and pas-
sionate yearnings to let the youth of the
Empire stake its life on their putrid
politics. Sir Archibald Sinclair, the
“Liberal” leader, “called for a strong
policy.”
He urged the movement of warships
to the Far East in co-operation with France
and the United States, and, if necessary,
the use of force.
Sir Archibald is positive that “public
opinion in the Dominions will not accept
a British understanding with Japan.”
The Bulletin is equally positive that'
20,000,000 white people in the Dominions
won’t let a gentleman from Caithness
whose “party” consists of twienty-one
(21) members come it over them.
All the hopelessly-insolvent N.S.W.
Government railways, of which Mr.
Hartigan publishes a melancholy list
every year, were recommended by com-
mittees of politicians who drew fees for
their recommendations, and at the post-
mortem on the Darling-Glen Waverley
(Vic.) white elephant, Beckett, M.L.C..
recalled that it was recommended by the
Railway Standing Committee. The land
was to have been free of cost to the
country, and the losses were to have been
made up by means of a betterment rate ;
but the Trust set up to carry out these
obligations failed to meet them. So the
taxpayers have had to shoulder losses
amounting to nearly £50,000 in five years,
and the Commonwealth Bank has agreed
to waive interest amounting to £7OOO.
The line cost £lBl,OOO. Nobody would
give the odd thousand for it as a going
concern.
Politicians seem very much alike all
the world over. Last week the French
Deputies awarded themselves an increase
of 7200 francs a year per Deputy and
another 7200 francs a year for a secre-
tary if the Dep. should want one. They
must have known then that another huge
strike was coming, and it came immedi-
ately—a high-cost-of-living strike of
140,000 Paris municipal employees con-
sequent on the 40-hour week. The muni-
cipal employees had been allowed the
French equivalent of 6s. Bd. Australian
per month per person. State officials,
whose political pull is greater, had been
given 13s. 4d. per month per person.
The Deputies gave themselves £lO per
month per Deputy.
“Pravda,” Stalin’s rag, announces that
the League is stronger for the withdrawal
of Germany, Japan and Italy ; and no
doubt it is stronger to Communists. To
others its strength is the strength of
mustard.
Uncle Sam could scarcely have spent
a cheerful Christmas. Certainly the
Panay affair was settled, but it was re-
vealed that a fifth of the national income
was being taken in taxes. There fol-
“ET TU, GRANNY BRUTUS!”
The handling of the Far East crisis in London has been unworthy of graduates of
a kindergarten school in diplomacy.”
“S.M. Herald’s” special correspondent, flaying Mr. Edeh.
lowed immediately another tumble in
stocks and shares, and the motor manu-
facturers began giving rrten notice at a
great rate, while the unemployed were
reckoned at 11,000,000. Yet Uncle
has tried all the ingredients of prosperity
recommended by Australian politicians
of both parties— not only swingeing taxa-
tion, but stupendous borrowing, short
hours and artificial inflation of prices.
The cuts in N.S.W. racing taxes, which
came into force on Jan. 1, led to a
characteristic Government Railway De-
partment ukase: —
The department has made slight reduc-
tions in fares to Warwick Farm and Rose-
hill. Most of the fares to these courses
have been reduced by Id. in order to facili-
tate the work of booking clerks by their
not having to handle odd pennies.
These booking clerks are never rushed ;
but it seems that their convenience is
paramount. It’s a case of Booking
Clerjcs, 1 ; Racing Public, also ran.
A threatened increase of rating in the
City of Sydney may be averted by a con-
cession wrung from the Sydney Gov-
ernment —relief from the Main Roads
Board levy. In 12 years the ratepayers
have had to contribute just on £700,000
to Main Roads Board funds, not a cent
of which has been spent within the city.
The council would rather have the
right to rate Government properties, es-
pecially those owned by the Railway
Department, which at Wynyard and
other city-railway stations has become a
landlord on a huge scale. It dodges pay-
ment of rates, though no doubt it makes
its tenants pay the equivalent in rent.
From a “Yes-Mr.-Lyons” paper:
Sales of raisins this year have constituted
a record, the A.D.F.A. having sold about
500 tons more than in any previous season.
The butter people will also report a
great turnover at improved prices. It is
just 12 months since politicians began
telling their tale that if Section 92 was
not “amended” (i.e., slaughtered by the
poleaxing of inter-State Freetrade), the
raisin-growers and the cow-farmers
would all be Rooned.
One of the objections to transport
strangulation is that it imposes unneces-
sary suffering on stock. In Westralia,
motor carriage of stock is forbidden to
farmers and graziers unless they own
the lorries themselves. Great Southern
men who send sheep and lambs to the
Wednesday sales at Midland Junction
could, by hiring motor transport, load
them at midnight on Tuesday; as it is
they have to get the woollies on the train
first thing Tuesday morning. It means
preventible cruelty and loss of condition ;
but who cares about sheep?
Carol, the Rumanian King, whose lady
friend is a red-haired Jewess, has given
a commission to a Government which is
largely Fascist. In international politics
it means another punch on the nose for
Red Russia and for France. French in-
fluence has been declining in Europe
ever since the Communists became the
predominant Paris party. Countries
which formerly relied on the French for
protection have had to reckon with the
possibility that there may now be two
nations in France, as there are in Spain.
Since the partition of Palestine was
recommended by a British Commission
and accepted by the Government and
approved of by the League, there has
been open war between Arabs and Jews,
and British soldiers have had to fight
battles with Arab nationalists. Now the
Arabs are getting so much financial sup-
port and sympathy from the Moham-
medan world, especially the all-important
Indian part of it, that “a strong section
of Foreign Office opinion” has become
seriously alarmed, and it is suggested
that partition may be dropped. Accord-
ing to an “Argus” cablegram, “the
Colonial Office wishes to stand by par-
tition, and the Foreign Minister, Mr.
Eden, is prepared to back it” ; so ' the
Colonial Office must be wrong.
The Irish Free State became Eire on
January 1. Eire is “sovereign, indepen-
dent and democratic,” and is to have a
President, two Houses of Parliament and
a Council of State. There is no men-
tion of the King in the new Constitu-
tion ; but the King is to be recognised
“for external purposes.” It will be awk-
ward if he doesn’t choose to be so
recognised.
The second Roosevelt is sending four
cruisers to Sydney, and they are ex-
pected to arrive on the 150th Anniversary
Day. Thirty years ago, when there was
not quite so much perturbation in the
Pacific, it occurred to the first Roosevelt
that Sydney, a friendly place, would wel-
come a visit from U.S.A. warships; but
he sent a battle-fleet. Theodore Roose-
velt never did anything by halves.
N.S.W. Deputy Premier Bruxner is
one of the politicians whose popularity
has distinctly waned ; but he will regain
a great deal of it if his speed limits for
motor vehicles result in the saving of
flesh • and blood. During 1937 554
persons lost their lives in N.S.W. road
accidents, which numbered 9054 as com-
pared with 7795 in 1936. Allowing that
there were more cars on the roads it was
a frightful total; but in proportion to
population Perth probably wound up
1937 with the ghastliest record among the
cities. In the Westralian metropolis 82
persons were slaughtered on the roads.
During the last twelvemonth reported
on the Commonwealth Taxation Depart-
ment imposed £54,300 in fines on tax-
payers who, over a term of years, forgot
what their income was. The highest in-
dividual amount, £4177, was paid by a
horsetrainer who . failed to include
£17,809 in his returns of income for nine
years ; and a bookmaker was socked for
£3132 for neglecting to remember a
matter of £15,954, the period being three
years. Theatrical managers, graziers,
doctors, hotelkeepers, storekeepers and
merchants are also on the list, and a
homoeopathist, a herbalist (deceased) and
a politician were of the company. The
politician was fined £3lB, “omitted in-
come” being £6106.
Of 158 taxpayers fined £5O or over by
the Commonwealth taxgatherers for hav-
ing suffered lapses of memory regarding
their income, only two were South Aus-
tralians. And one of these was a Central
Office case —a person with interests in
more than one State. It speaks well for
the S.A. taxpayers ; and Tasmania (three
fined) and Victoria (13) can also claim
good records. In these, affairs the fine is
double the amount of tax avoided.
Just as invisible exports are reckoned
up in Britain, invisible costs of govern-
ment should be annually calculated in
Australia, though it is a job which the
statisticians will never be asked to do by
the politicians. An accountant who has
been employed for years, off and on, to
assist the Stevens Government admitted
at the inquiry into the sale of the Gov-
ernment pipeworks and brickworks that
he had received 400 guineas for his work
as chairman of an advisory committee,
charging for a hundred hours. On the
same day it was announced that one of
the N.S.W. Irrigation Commissioners was
to be sent abroad “to investigate market-
ing systems.” Australia has in London
alone seven Government agencies and
boards galore, all concerned with “mar-
keting systems.”


If |
NOT OUT !
" NOT OUT!!"
" NOTOUT !!!“
*All righTj soys; if he does it again, hes out 1 .
"OWZAT?"


The pleasures, the
comforts, and service of
Canadian Pacific travel
will live in your memory.
Go this way to Europe.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly. Co., Inc. in Canada
ECONOMY
DEPENDS ON
SPARKING PLUGS
t
?£T>,
%
a
-YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
Champions
ECONOMY always results when new Champions are
installed. These better plugs give stronger sparks. They
get the full value from the fuel. Thus, fuel goes farther
and you soon save more than the cost of the plugs.
An Empire product made in Windsor, Canada
*2
m
G
&
'SjA.
■VM
RE-VITALIZE
YOUR CAR
WITH
Champions
’Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
Australia’s New Year Honors list was
made up mainly of the usual medley of
politicians, doctors, financiers, presidents
of public bodies, military and naval men
and civil servants. Earle Page, deputy
Prime Minister, joins the ranks of the
G.C.M.Gs., Dalziel Kelly, president of
the United Graziers, and Dr. C. N. Paul,
of Sydney, become knights bachelor, and
Clive Baillieu, who looks after his firm’s
London interests, a K.B.E. Group-
Captain Frank McNamara, R.A.A.F.,
Australia’s only flying V.C., who is on
exchange duty in London, and John
Duncan, Deputy P.M.G. in N. S. Wales,
become C.M.Gs. The veteran Sacred
Heart Bishop of Vunapope, Kokopo
(N.G.), is named an honorary C.B.E.—
he is a foreign subject—for services in
connection with the Rabaul eruption.
The New Year list of M.B.Es. is unusu-
ally representative. Cecil Freer, the biggest
buffalo-shooter in the Northern Terri-
tory, who has spent most of the past two
years trying to persuade the income-tax
department that buffalo-shooting is a pri-
mary industry, gets one. So does Mrs.
Christina Gordon, a pioneer hotel-
keeper. That award will be
popular in the outback. Mrs.
Gordon, who hailed originally
from North Pine (Q.), trekked
across from Westralia with her
husband half a century ago, and
since then no hungry swaggie
has ever passed her door unfed.
Other M.B.Es. include Frank
Dalby Davison, president of
the Fellowship of Australian
Writers.
The New Year brought a posthumous
knighthood for Brigadier Bourchier, Vic-
toria’s just-dead Agent-General, and
knighthoods for Sydney’s retiring Lord
Mayor Archibald Howie and C. F. G.
McCann, S. Australia’s London Trade
Commissioner.
T. F. Watson, adjutant to the gold-
fields battalion, the first Australian con-
tingent to leave for the Boer War, is
visiting Australia. Watson was on Lord
Roberts’s staff during the S’African scrap,
and Kitchener chose him as his organis-
ing officer soon after the outbreak of
the European war. He founded the
Church Duplex Society in England 27
years ago to assist in church and chari-
table work, and that body has since
raised £8,000,000 in donations. Watson's
father was a well-known architect,
Fletcher-Watson, who founded the Aus-
tralian Institute of Architects.
The P. and O. Co. has sent H. N.
Hollis to Australia to succeed A. P.
Case as its representative. Hollis has
been in the service since 1905. Begin-
ning with a few years in London, he
spent five years in Aden, four in
Colombo, which he left in 1914 to be-
come manager of the London passenger
department. Latterly he has been chief
assistant to the general manager.
The National Bank has acquired a
new London director in Lord Hutchison
of Montrose, an old soldier who served
in the 7th Dragoon Guards, the 11th
Hussars, and who holds a mass of deco-
rations and honors accumulated in the
Great War. From 1917 till the end of
the war, he was director of organisation
at the War Office, after which he became
deputy adjutant-general. In 1935, he
was appointed paymaster-general. He
was in the House of Commons for
several years, became chief Liberal Whip
and is chairman of the National Liberal
Association.
D. R. Hall was born in Victoria of
Scottish parents, learned the law at Syd-
ney University and jumped into politics
as a State M.L.A. for Gunnedah in
1901 at 27. At the end of the period,
he retired to practise at the Bar, to
which he was admitted in 1903, but at 32
became M.H.R. for Werriwa, and held
One of Holman’s Ministers.
the job down till 1912. In 1913 James
Sinclair McGowen, pressed for Minis-
terial talent, put him into the Legis-
lative Council and made him Attorney-
General. Presently Hall resigned, was
elected to the Assembly for Enmore and
was Holman’s right-hand man through-
out the war years. “Davy,” said Hol-
man, “is an orator. A lot of men can
charm a crow off a tree if the induce-
ment is sufficient. But Davy can per-
suade it to leave the inducement and fly
back to the bough.” After the war he
introduced price-fixing legislation. At
the last elections, Hall tried to stage a
comeback as a U.A.P. Senate candi-
date, but his oratory did not help him.
He has a substantial practice as a Sydney
solicitor.
J. A. Collins, who has been promoted
captain in the R.A.N., is only the second
Australian Naval College graduate to
reach that rank. He is on the Captain
Superintendent’s- staff, Sydney, and is
soon to be transferred to the Navy Office,
Melbourne.
Flags on Sydney shipping offices were
half-mast on New Year’s Eve for
C. W. D. Conacher, general manager of
the Blue Star line, a kindly, reserved,
sensitive Victorian giant who was known
and liked throughout the Commonwealth.
Born at Terang Conacher went to
Scotland with his parents and was edu-
cated at George Watson’s College and
the West of Scotland Agricultural Col-
lege, Glasgow. Then Vesteys sent him
to Madagascar and China, and in 1916,
when they made their big push in
Northern Australia, returned him to the
Commonwealth with their power of
attorney. Conacher implemented all
Vesteys’ developments in North Aus-
tralia, in the future of which he was a
strong believer. When the Blue Star
line came to Australian waters in 1934
he took charge. He had an expert know-
ledge of international affairs, and was
a friend of all movements for the better-
ment of the life of the struggling peoples
of the outback. Many a poor devil who
was down got a fresh start through
Conacher’s unobtrusive help. He was 57
at the end; it came after a long illness
against which he put up a patient and
courageous fight.
“F.S.” on a musician:
Melbourne music loses temporarily the ser-
vices of Bernard Heinze, Ormond Professor
of Music, who is off to Europe. The Uni-
versity orchestra has had a hard row to hoe
during the past decade, but with the Broad-
casting Commission it made the last season
one of the finest in local history. Heinze gave
place on several occasions to guest conductors,
but the concerts he directed were not the least
worthy. He has proved himself an able ex-
ponent of the classics, as well as an experi-
mentalist in “first performances in Australia
of the most advanced of the moderns.
A veteran of Queensland’s water
supply service, John Peart, has drawn
his last plan at 82. His monument is
Lake Manchester, the source of Bris-
bane’s water, which he designed
before he retired from his job
as engineer to the old Water
Board in 1929.
Percy Stow, dead in Adelaide
at 80, was a well-known bar-
rister in his day, with the same
striking profile as his father, a
long-ago Judge. He was junior
to the famous Symon at first,
and later senior partner to Piper, after-
wards Judge. He married Mrs. Langloh
Parker, author of many Australian legen-
dary tales.
Recently transferred from Sydney,
S. H. Donnelly is in charge of Melbourne
branch of the Tas. Tourist Bureau. A
genial Speck native, he began his career
in the Railway Department, and 22 years
ago went to Sydney to advertise the
beauties of his native island. There he
helped found the Tasmanian Society, and
was president for 14 of its 20 years.
Donnelly represented N.S.W. for many
S.H. DOMNELLY.
years on the Australian Football Council,
and was a vice-president of the North
Sydney Cricket Club before he went
south.
L. D. Edwards, Queensland’s Director
of Education, has a more complete con-
trol over the administrative side of State
teaching than any other man holding a
similar job, except perhaps the Westra-
Queensland’s Director of Education.
lian Director. Almost all the big
secondary as well as primary schools in
Queensland are under official surveil-
lance. Distance and scattered popula-
tions saddle him with a problem which
is met by a correspondence system which
extends its teaching to furthest Cape
York and the Territory border line.
Edwards has grown up in the service, and
his job is lightened by an intensive know-
ledge of Queensland and its localities.
“El V.” on a couple of diplomats :
The British Government has created a new
post as chief diplomatic adviser for Robert
Vansittart. He has been permanent head of
the Foreign Office since 1930. Tall and dis-
tinguished, Vansittart is a typical F.O. product,
with personal experience of a dozen embassies
from Teheran to Paris. He is better known
on the Continent as a French playwright than
as a diplomat, has written, too, for the Eng-
lish stage and ranks high among the numerous
civil service poets. For some time he has
left most of the administrative work of his
office to Alexander Cadogan, a son of the Earl
of Cadogan and descendant of a line of
generals, admirals and diplomats beginning
with a British commander-in-chief of the early
eighteeenth century. Cadogan is credited with
having a more practical mind than Vansittart,
has a special knowledge of Oriental affairs
and was Minister Plenipotentiary at Peiping
for a couple of recent years.
The engineering school at Melbourne
University has handed the job of study-
ing the production of local Australian
fuels to M. W. Woods, a Tasmanian
Rhodes scholar with a fine research
record at Oxford, where he was awarded
a D.Ph. for his thesis on the flow of
steam in nozzles. Woods is also an
authority on airship construction, his
work on which, written’ with Dr. Warlow-
Davies, another Tasmanian Rhodes
scholar, was published recently by the
British Aeronautical Research Society.
Obit, at Brisbane, aged 85, Walter
John Morley, Australia’s oldest contribut-
ing journalist. English-born, he came
to Queensland with his parents in the late
’fifties. After leaving school, he joined
the Brisbane “Courier” staff, and re-
mained there for 35 years, the last 15 as
editor of the “Evening Observer.” In
1900 he was appointed editor of the
“Queensland Mining Journal,” and re-
tired in 1922. But up to shortly before his
death he contributed notes and articles,
mostly on mining or sporting subjects,
to Australian and overseas papers. Gifted
with an excellent memory and a dry,
quaint sense of humor, his conversational
descriptions of Brisbane over three gen-
erations would have made an excellent
book.


SMOKE-OH!
“After 37 years of political service, Senator
Pearce is looking forward to a respite on his
property at Chinenup.”
Electors pronounce it “Chinenough.”
•p 4* 4*
“Up-to-date schools are being equipped with
an apparatus for sunlight treatment.”
—News item.
Years ago, tanning was simpler and
cheaper, but more painful.
“In Russia, lipstick is now being scented
with alcohol.”
Those comrades who escape the purges
can still get shot in love affairs.
•b
“A kangaroo farm has been established in
South Russia. — “Sun.”
To make vodka out of the hops?
•h 4*
“What is the most popular hiking song?”
asks a correspondent.
“Home, Sweet Home,” probably.
•g. .
His Bent.
“His criminal tendencies were due to ill-
health.” — Psychologist.
Wild, wicked ways to him were dear ;
All virtue he forsook.
The cause undoubtedly was clear:
The man was feeling crook!
T. W. N.
"Git another station! I'm sick of listening to that one."
“Untearable paper produced.” —News item.
Well, they can try using it for pacts
and peace treaties; but, after all, it’s
probably inflammable.
•I* 4* 4*
“These attractive modem flats are available
at a rental of £B2 per annum, inclusive of rats.”
— Advt.
At least, then, the landlord should
throw a cat in.
Supply and Demand.
“I see here,” remarked the visitor
from Mars, putting down his paper,
“that your statesmen are seriously con-
cerned over the practically world-wide
drop in the birthrate.”
“Yes,” replied the Cook’s guide.
“I suppose there is a shortage of re-
search workers, teachers, medical men,
laboratory assistants and so on?”
“Oh, no; actually there are far too
many already for the openings offering.”
“My mistake. Doubtless it is a scarcity
of manual laborers?”
“Oh, no, half
those we have
a r e u n e m-
ployed.”
“Well, what
do you want
the babies for?”
“To turn
them into sol-
diers when they
grow up.”
“Then there
is a dearth of
warriors?”
“Oh, no, we
have far too
many men
under arms al-
ready.”
“W hat do
you want them
for then?”
“Oh, just that
a declining
birthrate is bad
for us.”
“Thank you. 1 see now,” replied the
visitor from Mars.
Cloon.
•i* 4* •b ❖
“According to a Blue Book, the increasing
incidence of diseases of the stomach among
naval ratings is attributed to a tendency to
bolt meals.” — Cable.
Inclusion of nuts in the diet, then,
might prove effective.
“Thieves extract contents of chocolate
machine by means of a piece of bent wire.”
—News item.
Yes, but let them have a go with a
coin and see if they can do it.
Explanation.
“Excavators in Fleet-street came upon grim
reminders of the Great Plague of London.
Hundreds of skeletons were found, proving
that the spot was a pit at one time for the
burial of plague victims.” —News item.
The average citizen will accept this as
very interesting and then go his way
earning taxable income. We don’t.
Anyone who has had dealings with
editors, and Fleet-street is full of them,
can sense the grisly story behind that
item. And you don’t have to be one
of those goofy radio detectives to re-
construct the scene.
A bovine-looking editor with con-
tracted shaggy brows grunts “Come in.”
The haunted-looking wretch with long
hair rushes in, dumps his bundle of
poems on the desk and turns to rush
out, when —click! He of the shaggy
brows has pressed a spring beneath his
big toe and the door is locked. A few
minutes later a strangled poet goes
hurtling down the secret chute to the
secret pit below Fleet-street.
And so to-day Fleet-street gives up
its ghastly secret and the withered bones
of hundreds of poor beggars who set out
so bravely to rhyme “dawn” with
“morn” in the springtime.
And not one of them left with that
hoary old lie “The editor regrets!”
D. McM.
“Get ’im out of it, quick—that lion son a diet!”
“Scientist trying to produce a scentless
onion.” —News item.
A man like that is just as likely to try
to produce tasteless beer.
Guaranteed.
Madam ! If you are seeking to reduce
I’ll tell you of a way that cannot fail.
It calls for neither starving nor the use
Of potions liable to make you ail.
Moreover, madam, you may cease to be
A slave to weary ierks more fit for
men.
Just ape the fine example set by me,
And try to earn your living by the
pen !
T.W.N.
The Sorrows of Salesmanship.
“In accordance with a new national economy
campaign, telephone subscribers in Rome must
in future, when getting new directories, return
their old ones, which will be sold.” — Cable.
As a high-pressure salesman who has
handled pretty well everything from com-
bination fish-scalers and telescopic white-
wash brushes to noiseless, suctionless
vacuum-cleaners, I can vouch for the
toughness, as a selling line, of old tele-
phone directories.
I once lumped 40 of them around,
selling on a commission basis. At the
first house I tried the door was opened
by a skinny, bedraggled little woman.
I immediately placed my foot in the door-
jamb so that it couldn’t be closed and
started in on my spellbinding. After
about 20 minutes she said something
unintelligible and a burly navvy appeared
behind her, with soap over his face and
a blade razor in his huge fist.
“Annoyin’ a deaf, ’elpless woman,
eh?” he roared. “Nick orf, y’ ape, or
I’ll bust y’ wide open, see?” and he
slammed the door.
Did I say before that it couldn’t be
closed because I had my foot in the
jamb? It was a week before I was able
to start out again, and then only with
a pronounced hobble.
However, I did flog one directory to
a near-sighted old girl who thought she
was buying a paper-covered omnibus
volume in a first edition of Edgar Wal-
lace’s thrillers. Even at that it took an
hour’s solid magging in my most fluent
style to break down her resistance, and
I even had to read out to her the first
story —I still consider the highlight of
my selling career was the manner in
which I made that up as I went along.
After haggling about the price for an-
other half-hour she wanted to put it on
the lay-by, but she evidently sensed by
the dangerous glint in my eye that I was
becoming ripe for homicidal mania, for
she coughed up.
I nearly sold another as a Burke’s A us-
tralian Peerage to a newly-rich near-
society climber, but when like a goat I
mentioned that it was the current edition
she knocked me back, saying that if it had
been next year’s she’d have bought one,
as by that time she hoped to have her
own name in it, her husband being a
heavy subscriber to party funds. It
took me three days before I could talk
again without a trace of the Oxford
bleat.
One hefty dame with a square-rigged
bust, a cruiser stern, arms like a cane-
cutter’s and a black hirsute growth about
the jowls opened the door and in a heavy
baritone voice asked me my business.
I was just hoisting my lid to bid her
good-bye on sight when I noticed she
was wearing dark glasses, so I changed
my mind and told her I was introducing
the only unexpurgated edition-de-luxe of
Mrs. Beeton’s Cookery Book, revised
and brought up to date by the inclusion
of ultra-violet-ray dietetics and the re-
popularising of paper-bag cookery.
She seemed interested and wanted to
know if it told you how to bone a ham.
In a moment of levity I told her that
that was merely a simple matter of hoist-
ing one and slipping it inside her shirt-
waist when the grocer wasn’t looking, but
I could tell by the way her mouth went
down at the corners like a blue-pointer
shark’s that the appreciation of a little
facetiousness wasn’t her strong suit, so I
smartly made a pretence of turning up
the H in the index and was reeling off
a lot of tripe about the best way to hack
a bone out when she rudely snatched it
from me and started poring over the
tome.
The next thing I knew I was on the
broad of my back, with a plum-sized
lump sprouting rapidly on my dome where
the corner of the heavy directory had
got me. She must be about the only
woman in history who ever flung any-
thing with sufficient accuracy to hit what
she aimed at.
Unfortunately the lump came just
where my hat band should have rested,
so I had to wear my tile at an absurdly
rakish angle. I was tottering up to the
corner pub to get a much-needed reviver
and was just making for the bar door
when a heavy hand fell on me and I
was whisked into the Black Maria among
the drunks. Ten bob or two days.
Thoroughly fed up, I decided to dump
my stock. But where? I got in the
gun with the police for trying to aban-
don them in a laneway and again when
I started stuffing them into a street waste-
paper receptacle. I tried burning them,
but the edges of the covers just
smouldered for a minute and then
petered out. At last in desperation I
pushed them over the Harbor Bridge.
They fell on a passing water-police
launch, knocking one of the cops sen-
sible. “Grievous bodily harm,” I think
they called it.
My chief trouble, though, was that I
couldn’t get proper massage treatment in
clink for a twisted aorta and the slip-
knot in my lumbar vertebrae caused
through yanking the weighty directories
around on an empty stomach, in itself
no mean balancing feat when one takes
into consideration the convex shape of
a hollow stomach. However, they did
try hot air on me, but, dammit, I’d had
enough of that.
Yes, I have the greatest sympathy for
those of Musso.’s cohorts who have the
job of selling all those surplus directories.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Ped. O’M.”: “’E never sacked me —
Ah left! ” protested Choom over his fare-
well pint. “Ah said nowt to drivin’
dooble-’eader all day in blazin’ sun. Ah
never raised shindy milkin’ cows and
feedin’ pigs and poddy calves till Ah
coom near droppin’. Ah nivver groombled
about lousy toocker —corned beef and
spoods for moonths on end. But, bah
goom, when ’e coom ’awm from dance at
two in the mornin’, fair blithered, and
pulls me owt o’ boonk to light fires every
fifty yards ’long five-mile track to town-
ship to find ’is false teeth, Ah left,
Ah did and all, proper like and quick!”
* * * *
“Cudgerie”: Beer seems to have re-
placed distilled molasses as the favorite
tipple on the old mining fields in' Queens-
land (B. 24/11/’37). In the heyday of
the Bower Bird goldfield in the Clon-
curry district beer couldn’t be got, but
rum was more plentiful than water. It
came from Burketown or Normanton
by bullock-team, and each grog-wagon
carried two 400 gal. ship’s-tanks full. There
were two pubs and 500 men on the field,
and during an orgy that followed the
arrival of the teams the boiler in the
winding shed was blown sky-high. No-
body was hurt, and the enginedriver and
a few half-sozzled miners crawled from
beneath a pile of debris wondering what
on earth had happened.
* * * *
“Flight”: If anyone is looking to the
plain turkey to stem the ’hopper inva-
sion then he’s got another guess coming.
Unlike the ibis, the turk. doesn’t make
his meal of ’hoppers—he fills up on
other tucker first and pokes odd ’hoppers
in where they’ll fit. In proof of the
turk.’s inability to handle things a man
should go to the Barkly Tableland.
That country, from the Templeton junc-
tion up to the head of the Georgina, is
perhaps the most thickly ’hopper-infested
area in the North. There, too, is per-
haps the biggest plain-turkey population
in the back-country. If the turk. can’t
do it where he’s at home, and where he
hasn’t been molested since Adam was a
little boy in short trousers, then what
chance has he of saving the country
where he Only wanders in individual
units?
* * * *
“Larrakeah”: Big Bill, croc .-cum-
buffalo-shooter, whose headquarters were
on the Adelaide River plains, came to
Darwin once yearly and splashed his way
through a man-sized cheque in about a
fortnight before heading off back to the
bush. He had been on it for a steady
five days when he rolled into Bert Pike’s
tonsorial establishment and mumbled
something about a shave. Bert managed
to get him into a chair, but under the
soothing influence of the lather Bill went
to sleep, defying all attempts to waken
him. With the aid of two customers, the
comatose William was carried out to the
back room and placed on a form, his im-
mediate companions being three stuffed
crocodiles and half a dozen outsize
pythons-—Bert drove a lucrative trade
selling curios to steamer tourists. Late
that afternoon the waiting saloon cus-
tomers were startled by a bloodcurdling
scream ; the back door burst open and
Bill passed through the saloon as if the
demons of hell were at his heels. We
caught up to him at the Club Hotel bar
as he was feverishly lowering a double-
header brandy and complaining loudly
that he must be getting old. Never be-
fore had he been “seein’ ’em” with still
half his cheque intact.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Old Joe must be
close on 80, looks sixtyish, and like
many other old bushmen is very re-
ticent about it. “Ain’t when yer was
born makes a bloke old, it’s how he
feels now” is his view. He got back
from a recent Brisbane visit looking
more ancient than I’d ever seen him,
but after two strenuous days with axe
and saw on the woodpile, and tidying up
his bit of garden, he’s as good as new.
“A man’s just- like that noo-fangled
rotary-’oe of yours, Bill,” he explained.
“Once yer give the flamin’ thing a lay-
orf the works goes wrong. Keep it
graftin’ ’ard, and it’s all right. Theseyere
young chaps don’t get no hoof-paddin’
and being shook up on ’orses like we
useter. All motor-cars and bikes. Their
flamin’ insides gets stuck together.
Lotta young rustyguts they are. Look
at all them patent medsins yer see about.
Painkiller an’ Cockle’s Pills was all we
“Lady sends her compliments, sir, and hopes you haven't forgotten you're on your honeymoon!"
’ad. An’, mindyer, a drop o’ Painkiller
was flamin’ good stuff if yer run outa
rum.”
* * * *
“W.D.McC.”: When cutting through
the centre of a log at Porter’s sawmill
near Matlock (Vic.) recently the sawyers
came across a knot-hole containing
a nest and the mummified remains of
a small bird. The feathers were just
the same color as in life —by the rings on
the log it was estimated that it must
have been 75 years or more since the
fowl became imprisoned in the tree,
though how it got closed in is a puzzle,
as the log was solid at both ends.
* * * *
“Biceps”: Strength in doing manual
work is always comparative. Those big
Irish navvies of W.A.’s yesterday were
good men, but I’ve seen stringy little
runts of the same breed who could keep
up with the best 'of them. Again, take
a navvy and put him to equally hard
work, say laboring in a foundry where
heavy lifting is coupled with intense arti-
ficial heat, and watch him crack up just
as readily as a counter-jumper. Certain
work develops certain specialised
muscles; these, plus “knack,” enable'
such as “Gravelsnatcher’s” giant (B.
1/12/’37) to hoist up those big logs at
Kurrawang. Lumping wheat is much
the same: the first week a man feels
that both his back and his heart are going
to break. After that the bags seem
almost to climb themselves on to his
shoulders, and he’s set. There’s one
job, though, that few men can endure —
climbing all day long up and down a
flight of steep stairs with a load on the
shoulder. A hod-carrier does it. Inci-
dentally, a job that looks easy but isn't
is driving a baker’s cart. The strain of
continually lifting the whole body up
into the driver’s seat after the serving
of each customer —multiplied by hun-
dreds—is something that has to be ex-
perienced to be appreciated.
* * * *
“Toheroa”: Probably the stoats and
weasels imported into Australia to deal
with the rabbit pest (B. 22/12/’37) met
the same fate as their relatives dispatched
to M.L. on a similar mission. The im-
portations were strictly protected by law,
but it was not long before they gave
evidence of an entire lack of interest in
rabbits and a lamentable predilection
for native birds and their eggs. They
even penetrated to towns, and began to
nibble sleeping infants, until enraged
citizens rose to wage war on the immi-
grants. At first the Government tried to
justify its attitude, but popular feeling
was against the pests, which were soon
openly killed whenever caught. The law
protecting them is probably still on the
M.L. statute book, but it’s one that gets
little observance.
* * sk ¥
“H.A.L.”: Officials of the State De-
partments of Agriculture have to be
patient when handing out advice to
people of the type who are hard to con-
vince, but even they ’ have their limits.
At one meeting a member of the audi-
ence wasted a lot of time by arguing
with the Government dairy expert;
finally that harassed officer said: “For
further information on these matters I
must refer you to the department’s goat
expert.” The argumentative one wanted
to know what he would know about
dairying. “Not much,” admitted the
official, “but he’s the man you want.”
* * V *
“Nor’-west”: Round about Yampi
Sound and Camden Harbor, nor’-west
W.A., the seascape is one vast archi-
pelago. In carrying on sea communica-
tion the abo. hereabouts uses a queer
craft, the catamaran. Six or seven white-
mangrove poles, each about 10ft. long
and running from 4in. diameter at the
butt to a tapering point, .are fastened
together by means of sharp hardwood
pegs, butts all one way, points the other.
Two such rafts form the complete craft,
one overlaying the other with tapered
ends to butts (why the builder doesn’t
lay butt to tapering end alternately in
constructing each raft is a mystery).
Bone-dry from lying on the beach, these
catamarans are as buoyant as cork, and
will readily support four adults, a
couple of piccaninnies and an odd dog
or two. In shallow water propulsion is
accomplished by poling with a long fish-
spear, the poler being ready to instantly
reverse spear and strike at any sizable
fish encountered. In deeper water, sitting
flat and paddling with short boards or
pieces of bark is the method. Consider-
able distances are often travelled, Binghi
as a wise seafarer usually taking advan-
tage of the tide, though this occasionally
results in the objective being missed and
a long voyage out to sea. But the, next
flood tide invariably brings the cork-
like craft back, though strong land
breezes have been responsible for many
a catamaran and its crew never making
an offing again.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: “No sharks to-day,”
said the lifesaver. “Look at the por-
poises. They’ll give the Jack Clarks a
go.” He’s a fine lad, but no fisherman.
The dolphins which we miscall por-
poises have no chance in a fight with a
shark, and are, in fact, frequently eaten
by them. A 15ft. tiger shark taken off
Moreton Island (Q.) some time ago held
four, all neatly severed into two or three
pieces. The relatively weak, peglike
teeth of the creatures couldn’t even
penetrate a shark’s armor-plated hide,
and, anyhow, they are peaceable, warm-
blooded animals that feed entirely on
small fish and squid, and cannot live
under water for many minutes. If there
is anything in the legend of safety from
sharks when porpoises are about, it is
the porpoise, not the shark, who has
taken the requisite precautions to avoid
any risk of a meeting.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: Those bush sports-
meetings where the draught-horse race
was the event of the day are gradually
becoming things of the past. A pity,
because they provided all the excitement
of a race-meeting with the thrills of a
buckjump show thrown in. You
mightn’t see many carefully-groomed
thoroughbreds, but after the second or
third event, when the owner-jockeys had
paid a few visits to the booth, stirrups
were shortened, and fresh whips cut from
the nearest wattle, the resulting hard-
ridden finishes would have done credit
to Bobby Lewis in his prime. In Gipps-
land (Vic.) once the stewards got wind
of some funny work to be attempted in
the pony race. They borrowed a couple
of hacks and, armed with stockwhips,
ranged up on each side of the favorite
and flogged it in front of the field from
flag-fall to winning-post. That was the
day George “Tod-Sloaned” it on the
old creamy pony and pulled up with his
saddle-flaps cut to ribbons by his spurs.
* * * *
“Dougal”: We were building a house.
George, mixing mortar, had been tor-
mented by a hornet, and it kept buzzing
around him. After swiping at it with
the shovel he lost his temper. “I’ll fix
the -!” he shouted, and dashed into
the camp, to reappear with his Win-
chester repeater. Going down on one
knee, he took aim at the insect, which
had alighted on the heap of mortar. A
sharp crack and the world’s first hornet
to die by rifle-fire had passed on.
A CONVENIENT BLOOMER.
Old Dan McGee knocked out his pipe. “You
take it, son, from me,” he said,
“They write a lot o’ blasted tripe, these meat-
pie novelists I’ve read,
About ’ow wimmen, once they’ve got their
claws dug deep into a man,
Will bust ’is friendships up scone-’ot —with
other blokes, I mean,” said Dan.
“Stiffen the dingoes! wot about me china plate,
old Mick Malone?
Was ’e content to take the clout an’ sneak orf
somewhere on ’is own
When I got tied? Not on your life! It made
no diff’rence, in ’is view,
Whether or not I ’ad a wife —’e stuck like
good Australian glue.
“F’r donkeys’ years on minin’ fields in nearly
all them ‘golden’ States
We’d been together chasin’ yields—we sometimes
got among the ’weights.
But not long after I’d been hitched old Mick
packs up an’ does a float;
I’m frantic, thinkin’ I been ditched; then,
’struth! one day I gets a note.
“It seems that Mick’d done a duck to try some
joint ’e’d ’eard was rich.
’E tells me ’e’s among the luck an’ that ’e’s
got a snifter pitch,
An’ would I come? I wires ’im straight:
‘My oath. Will I come on me own?’
An’ then I gets one from me mate: ‘Don’t
bring the missus—Mick Malone.’
“Since then we’ve worn out many a spade.
But, spare me days, the funny thing,
’Twas due to a mistake Mick made, becorse,
between the ‘don’t’ and ‘bring’
To put a full-stop ’e forgot (or says ’e did).
Still, any , man
Might slip on just a lousy dot. Thai’s friend-
ship for you, now,” said Dan.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


The idea of putting rum
in one’s boots, mentioned in a recent par.,
is by no means restricted to old battlers
on the track. When I first acquired the
peculiarity of the foregoing initials there
was an ancient messenger about N.S.W.
Parliament House who remembered old
Sir John Robertson, five times Premier
of the State. He told how, after a late
sitting on a winter’s night, John would
breast the bar and call for three rums —
one for each of his boots and one for
himself. “That ought to keep it out,” he
would remark, alluding to the cold with-
out. It probably did, for, despite much
travelling in a one-horsepower contrap-
tion that would kill off a man of this
softer age long before the allotted span,
the old-time pilot of the Ma State lived
to a ripe age.
# * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: It is distinctly un-
usual for the dingo to be regarded as a
useful member of society, but the man
who shoots or poisons one in the fruit-
growing areas north of Brisbane will re-
ceive no medal from local orchardists
for his feat. The reason is that, with
no sheep to worry, and dairy cattle out
of reach, the animal has reverted to its
natural prey of wallabies and bandi-
coots, who are themselves among the
“That the Unbreakable Tool Company? Gimme the Complaints
Department.”
fruitgrowers’ worst enemies. A bandi-
coot will sample half a dozen ripe pines,
spoiling the lot for market, and then
spend the rest of the night digging holes
which loosen the roots. Poison is no
good, and traps not much. The wallaby
eats off the bottom hands from banana-
bunches which it can reach. Possums,
too, sit on the green bunch and pick
what they fancy. Crows are also great
hands at sampling green pineapples, half
a dozen or so on a visit.
* * * *
“Ellenvale”: Curious accidents? A
Victorian pig-farmer was taking a spring-
cart load of porkers into the township
when a wheel slipped off the axle and,
careering ahead, sped down a slight in-
cline to the main street. It skittled the
local policeman, hurtled through a shop-
window and, after handing out a frac-
tured jaw to the shopkeeper, came to rest
on the remains ~f a pricey china dinner-
set. It cost the owner of the wheel about
20 quid to square things; besides, his
false teeth dropped out during the ex-
citement and were smashed to pieces by
his horse’s hooves.
* * * *
“Man Cook”: Elderly, long-isolated
boundary-riders have their pet, hurried-
affluence ideas. One with whom I was
flood-bound told me his was to lease a
big stretch of the ironstone-gravel downs
thereabouts, net-fence and plough it,
muster some hundreds of the emus and
put them on the fallow to pick up all
the rubies, sapphires, emeralds, opals,
gold nuggets, etc. When their craws
looked good prospecting he would open
their hardware stores, take out the easy
money, sew them up again, and turn
them out on the lease for more. When
I suggested bower-birds, because they
would put the wealth in heaps in their
playgrounds, he delightedly shook my
hand as a brother-scientist. It took him
four days’ hard thinking to decide that
I was only a shallow thinker and Hare-
brained crank, and he told me that the
day I was leaving. After he had ex-
plained quite seriously that, while his
emu-mining was quite practical, he de-
risively asked me how the hell I would
muster the blankards on the wing, catch
’em, drove them on to the lease, hold
them, etc.; he was so serious about it
all that I was mighty glad when the rain’s
ceasing let me escape.
* * * *
“E.A.8.”: “Curate’s Egg’s” parrots
(B. 1 /12/’37) recall the one held in trust
for her sailor nephew by the dear old
lady in our street. Owing to the rich,
fluent phrases that rolled off its rounded
tongue it spent Sundays with its cage
covered, so as not to shock sensitive
ears. One Monday morning Polly had
just been uncovered when the vicar was
seen coming up to the front door. The
bird was hurriedly covered up again, but
just as the vicar was shown into the
room a hidden, outraged voice
squawked: “ ’Struth! ’S been a
short week!”
* * * *
“Hanko”: When it comes to noise-
making various and startling, some of
our birds take walloping. The soul-sear-
ing screech of the powerful owl will
jelly the backbone ; the sudden lash and
crack of the whipbird will entangle the
tonsils; the eerie call of the mopoke
will set the neck hairs a-bristle, and the
rip-rasping clatter of the friar-birds will
promote a prime frontal headache. And
there are plenty more noisy ones, but, to
my mind, the greatest din-fnaker for its
“Are you the gentleman who wished to make a complaint?”
size is the scissors-grinder. How so small
a bird can produce the sound of a bushel
of wet pebbles being stirred round in an
iron bucket has got me licked. Thanks
be, it’s a midget.
* * *
“D. Thomas”: When I referred to
outback folk declining to eat what they
called “offal” (B. 15/12/’37), I had in
mind not the blacks or the folk up at
the station homestead, but the hands
working on the run. In my day in W.Q.
any station-hut cook offering his clients
fried liver or kidneys stood a good
chance of having the stuff poured over
him, and even swaggies would scornfully
refuse a free handout of the sort.
“Tam,” in reply to my par., says that
the only “offal” not used at the head-
station but sent to the blacks’ camp was
the bullock’s head and tail. The tongue
and cheeks and the tail are delicacies, in
the bush or out of it, and the blacks
were fortunate.
* * * *
“A.J.A.”: The Parkinsonia trees that
“Gidyea George” (B. 24/11/’37) men-
tions as growing at Maxwelton station
(Q.) are still doing well. They can now
be found many miles down Alick’s
Creek from the homestead, and have
also spread to bore-drains on the run.
When they get to a certain size they
die off. Incidentally, a remarkable thing
has happened on Maxwelton. The
galahs have stripped every leaf from a
patch of whitewood trees, with the ex-
ception of a small patch over a magpie’s
nest. It looks as if they had consider-
ately left this for shade over the nest;
but the presence of a fierce old maggie
is probably the reason.
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: I want to invoke the
sympathy of the League for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Illuminating Insects.
To have a strong lamp shining on a
locust, for instance, is the sheerest cruelty,
and I am moved to protest against this
being done in Grey-street, East Mel-
bourne, night after night. The lamp throws
a glare into the tree where the locust
dwells, and the unfortunate orthopterous
insect thinks it is the sun. For 24 hours a
day he sings insistently his plaintive song
and never gets any sleep. People who
live behind the big double windows oppo-
site don’t sleep either, but they have
civilisation on their side, and I’m not
concerned about them. What I say is
that science and humanity are treating
the locust with brutish inconsideration,
and the league whose duty it is to see
that insects are not lit-up should act at
once.
* * * *
“Bert”: The boss of Fairview station
(W.Q.) had been having a lot of trouble
with his bore-drains. For years they had
been all that drains should be, but sud-
denly they developed the habit of unex-
pectedly flooding, cutting out the banks
in the process. Coming to the obvious
cause of one overflow, a piping conduit
that was conducting very little water be-
neath its road crossing, he was about to
shove in a hand to clear away the ex-
pected bundle of rubbish when a move-
ment made him pause. An old-man
goanna had solved the problem of get-
ting his tucker with ease and comfort —
tucked snugly away in the cool pipe, his
mouth was ready waiting at the entrance
to collect the little bore-water fish that
drifted down.
' * * * *
“Pisces”: I watched an ink-fish the
other day in dead-calm water. That
fellow was floating there, changing color,
only his opalescent eyes shining with the
same hue. Something disturbed him,
and, gathering in his bunch of trans-
parent carrots which were his tentacles,
he shot away ilke a pricked meteor, leav-
ing a cloud of inky water behind him.
That opaque patch seemed to draw to-
gether again, whirl a bit and twist, and
when it settled down to some semblance
of a shape I’ll be hanged if the thing
wasn’t the shadow of the bloke who had
made it and who had fled!
* * * *
“Snorter”: The ear accustoms itself to
noise almost as quickly as the nose gets
dulled to a persistent scent. A stockman
can hear cattle bellowing in the yard
or sheep bleating in the brake only if
he actually listens for them or if they
stop the din. Though the case-hardened
cove doesn’t realise there’s a row on, a
newchum might toss and roll for nights
in a vain effort to sleep. The same thing
applies to people who live near the
shore —they can’t hear the waves break-
ing on the beach unless they listen for
them. Perhaps the outstanding case of
that sort was at Charters Towers (N.Q.)
when it was in its boom in the mining
days. The noise of those stampers would
raise seven bells. They went day and
night. People used to sleep as soundly
as if soothed by lullabies. And when
those stampers used to stop at midnight
on Saturday everyone would wake up
with a bang, to toss and cuss, unable to
get a decent sleep until the racket started
again 24 hours later.
* * * *
“Ettamogah”: The Australian abo.
missed out on something more important
than the bow and arrow (B. 15/12/’37).
Archery is only a recent innovation com-
pared with the wheel, but the abo. never
tumbled to the notion until the coming
of the white man. It’s strange that with
so many hefty and almost perfectly
round trees at his disposal Binghi couldn’t
nut out the idea of a couple of rollers
and evolve therefrom a pair of wheels.
Still, a cart or chariot wouldn’t have
been much use with only a ’roo to pull
it, although an emu might have done
the trick.
* * * #
“Cudgerie”: “Dougal” (B. 8/12/’37)
errs when he asserts that the roots of
citrus-trees prefer the soil near the sur-
face. Actually they have long taproots,
and if planted by an inexperienced
orchardist will generally die on reaching
the clay subsoil. Arboreal suicide is
common unless the root is diverted, this
being done by means of a sheet of iron
or a large flat stone placed at the
bottom of the hole in which the young
tree is planted. The taproot, once it is
turned, will frequently grow towards the
surface. For centuries orange-growers
in southern Europe have cultivated
citrus-trees with horizontal roots.
A TOUCHING RITE.
I had looked at him, wide-eyed and puzzled,
when, having a drink by himself,
The stranger gave one laugh that rattled the
bottles on Ticklebrain’s shelf;
Then, draining his pint with a relish, he
solemnly made for the street,
Leaving me, a lone customer, drinking in the
old Dingo Trapper’s Retreat.
“Now you see that there bloke?” said
McSweeney, as he polished the bar with
his rag,
“Well, he’s known from The Rock to Bal-
ranald as old Ticklish Ted, and a dag
If ever there’s one. Now that ’orseplay you
just seen him get orf his chest
Is a drinkin’ routine that ’as made ’im a sort
of a figger out West.
“You see, at a big country meetin’, ’e once
won a wad on the mokes,
But Ted is a bit of a shrewdy, and ’e’d ’eard
o’ these, light-fingered blokes;
So ’e ducks round behind a big gum-tree,
determined to make it a cert,
An’ stuffs all ’is notes in a waistbelt, which
he fastens on under ’is shirt.
“Now y’ see, it’s like this. Ted’s a feller who’s
got a reel sensitive skin;
The slightest touch sends ’im all shriekin’, he
kicks up a helluva din.
Well, they’re lined up for one o’ the races,
when over the length o’ the course
There rings out a great burst o’ laughter that
stampeded every ’orse.
“He was stiff, that there pickpocket joker who
musta seen Ted plant the dibs,
For one touch made Ted let out a holler, and a
mounted cop lumbered ’is nibs.
And that’s why, whenever ’e’s boozin'", ’e’ll
let go one laugh that’s ’is pride
And straightaway grab up ’is handle and drink
to his own tender hide!”
N.S.W.
BO.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.)
Tables or Seats may be reserved by. •’Phone. M4OOl. . . . . * ~
LUDOWICI LEATHER
• - .■
■
Gives many years of Trouble-free Service
Ludowici Leather Belting of all types gives long
life and absolute dependability even under the
most difficult operating conditions.
Made from Ludowici tanned and matched first-
grade leather, and with all joints and plys water-
proof cemented, every Ludowici Leather Belt is
guaranteed replacement free against defective
workmanship and material. Made and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 York Street, Sydney
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M, J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361.
THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
E., S. and A. Bank
Net
Busi- Profit on
ness Old De- Dividends. Written Re-
June, Profit, posits. p.c. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926 522,308 750 281,250 82,000 2,374,472
Royal Bank absorbed.
Net additions to reserves, £400,000 .. 2,774,472
1927 540,988 1250 295,313 95,000 2,926,397
Premiums on shares, £379,249 .. 3,305,646
1928 588,769 63 375,000 148,500 3,370,978
1929 591,263 375,000 159,500 3,427,741
1930 532,736 375,000 120,000 3,465,477
8 p.c.
1931 261,657 240,000 8,487,134
5 p.c.
1932 142,720 150,000 3,479,854
1933 214,327 150,000 50,000 3,494,181
1934 216,566 150,000 50,000 3,510,747
1935 238,580 150,000 50,000 3,549,327
1936 247,460 150,000 75,000 3,571,787
7 p.c.
1937 266,126 171,935 80,000 3,585,978
The size of its deposits and advances
places this Anglo-Australian institution
fourth on the list of the 10 Associ-
ated trading banks in Australia. More
than half its total business, which is
spread all over the Commonwealth, is
done in Vic. During the post-war de-
cade the management adopted a vigorous
policy of expansion, by absorption and
otherwise —the London Bank of Aus-
tralia and Commercial of Tasmania were
taken over in 1921, and the Royal Bank
of Australia, with solid Victorian connec-
tions, was welded into the organisation
in 1927. With the help of high prices
and satisfactory seasons a run of 12} p.c.
divs. was paid for the eight years to the
close of accounts in 1930. The rate
dropped to 8 p.c. in ’3l, and to 5 p.c.
in the following year, and then remained
steady until the last term, when a good
season, brisk trade and high prices
enabled a couple of points to be added,
making 7 p.c. for the year.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, a sharp rise in the value
of exports provided better pickings for
the banks in the exchange market, while
continued expansion of trade locally
helped to swell earnings, too. Still, bad
debts are made in good times, and, as
the chairman points out, a wise man
seizes the opportunity to make provision
during the fat years against the lean ones
which are sure to come. So, after making
an unspecified provision for contingen-
cies, the board figured that the spring in
gross earnings was £78,767:
1930. 1936. 1937.
Gross earnings .. £1,587,758 £1,102,713 £1,181,480
Exes 827,941 748,709 772,544
Taxation . . . . 227,081 96,544 132,810
Net profit.. .. 542,736 257,460 276,126
The growth of £23,835 in exes, was due
mainly to statutory wage increases. The
rise in the tax bill was £36,266. After
sending £lO,OOO to the staff fund, there
remained a shade over 4 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined), or 8.8 p.c. on the £3,000,000 of
capital alone as against 8.2, 7.9, 7.2, 7.1,
4.7, 8.7, 17.7 and 19.7 p.c. back to 1929.
After paying the higher div. already re-
ferred to, and openly whisking away
£50,000 for contingencies and striking
£30,000 off the book value of premises
(together £BO,OOO, shown as written off
in the table), the £14,191 that remained
lifted the visible lay-by £585,978 higher
than paid capital.
The div., which is paid in sterling, is
subject to a deduction of 3s. 6d. in the
pound on account of English income tax.
Allowing for this and exchange at the
present rate, 7 p.c. is worth 7.2 p.c. in
Australian currency.
Impressed by the rise in commodity
prices, especially for metals and wheat,
the market lengthened its bid for the
co.’s £5 shares paid to £3 from £6 at the
end of 1936 to £6 12s. in March last.
Since then lack of confidence in the
European situation, developments in
Asia and the possibilities of reaction
from the American position have brought
about an all-round revision of market
estimates, and the scrip fetched £5 Bs. 6d.
at the close of ’Change. The return at
£5 Bs. 6d. is 4 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
Visibly the cover is £6 11s. Bd. in net
tangibles.
When the books closed the bank was
well equipped to further extend its lend-
ing connections:
Liabilities.
J. 932. 1936. 1937.
Notes .. .. £1,028 £1,012 £l,Oll
Bills, etc. .. 1,878,911 2,036,948 2,768,960
Fixed deposits. 19,403,465 19,710,035 20,937,315
Free deposits.. 9,968,820 13,183,214 14,345,344
Total .. £31,252,224 £34,931,209' £38,062,630
Assets.
Liquids .. £14,196,155 £13,689,954 £18,576,117
Advances .. 24,762,786 29,112,249 27,350,619
Premises .. 711,103 733,760 761,464
Total .. £39,670,044 £43,535,963 £46,688,200
The big lift in export income is reflected
in an expansion of £2,389,410 in de-
posits, a contraction of £1,761,630 in
advances and a growth of £4,886,163 in
liquids. Liquids amounted to 48.8 p.c.
of liabilities to the public, and cash and
Treasury bills together were equal to
17s. 9d. of every pound of demand de-
posits. The bank was holding only £4
9s. lid. of the public’s money for every
pound of its own funds, including
£1,872,966 of perpetual stocks. It is a
very strong position, but it means low
earning power.
National Mutual Life Association
Added
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* to Funds.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 4,378,799 1,882,250 372,850 2,123,699
Added to Investment Reserve, £7226.
1928.. 4,930,596 2,075,058 414,361 2,441,177
Added to Investment Reserve, £7898.
1929.. 4,941,130 2,093,781 447,084 2,400,265
Added to Investment Reserve, £31,222.
1930.. 4,983,877 2,559,111 450,974 1,973,792
Added to Investment Reserve, £8299.
1931.. 4,755,450 3,317,599 400,804. 1,037,047
Added to Investment Reserve, £7OOB.
1932.. 4,477,015 3,030,862 393,708 ) fi99 Q cu
Trans. Invest. Res., £429,451 f ’
Added to Investment Reserve, £16,091.
1933.. 4,662,815 3,043,709 404,215 ( ,
Trans. Invest. Res., £153,145 j I’Uol’'4o 1 ’ U01 ’' 40
Added to Investment Reserve, £14,615.
1934.. 4,902,114 2,857,242 437,039 1,607,833
Added to Investment Reserve, £15,161.
1935.. 5,018,296 2,924,349 474,689 1,619,258
Added to Investment Reserve, £8446.
1936.. 5,237,786 2,995,222 520,563 1.722,001
Added to Investment Reserve, £6981.
1937.. 5,605,733 3,126,050 568,675 1,911,008
* Excluding income tax.
Last year was a fat one for Australia.
Bigger production was consumed by a
growing demand at home and by ex-
panding sales at increased prices abroad,
while abundant credit was available for
all sound and legitimate enterprises, and
unemployment was reduced to a low
level. In these circumstances the
National, second-largest of Australia’s
five big mutual offices, put' a record
amount of new business on its books
(£12,193,321, up £844,743). Deducting
reassurances (£69,389) and the tax bill
(£123,874), gross income was £367,947
better at £5,605,733, of which £3,880,446
(up £332,166) was in respect of premiums
and consideration for annuities and
£1,725,287 (up £35,781) interest, rents,
etc. After paying all legitimate claims
and exes., £1,911,008 (up £189,007) was
added to the assurance fund, making it
£42,794,134. This fund, which exceeds
actuarial liabilities under policies, has
the support and assistance of an invest-
ment fluctuation reserve, into which
£6981 was dropped from somewhere, last
term, raising it to £1,130,587. Returns
from the investment of this reserve are
available to supplement the income from
the assurance fund, and therefore help
to swell the margin available for distri-
bution among policy-holders as bonuses.
Although the actuary makes an annual
overhaul of the business, and bonuses
are declared each year, the office still
clings to the old-fashioned idea of send-
ing out its valuation figures triennially.
The next lot, now in preparation, are due
early in the new year. For the three years
to the close of accounts in 1936 the
rate of bonus on whole-of-life policies
was steady at the handsome rates of
from 40s. p.c. on contracts one year in
force to 68s. p.c. on those 35 years old
or more. Chief factors affecting bonuses
are margins in connection with (1) cost
of handling the business, (2) interest
earned and (3) rate of mortality.
Last year exes, (excluding taxes) took
14.8 p.c. of premium income and con-
sideration for annuities combined as
against 14.4 p.c. for the previous term.
The proportion allowed by the actuary
in 1934 was 15.2 p.c. The amount paid
in death claims last year was only 51 p.c.
of the amount expected according to the
mortality table used. After deducting
the tax bill, the net rate of interest
earned on the mean assurance fund was
£4 4s. 2d. p.c., or 3d. less than for the
previous term. The rate has come down
from £5 Bs. lid. in 1929. The office
assumes that the assurance fund will turn
in only 3 p.c. So the association still
shows satisfactory margins in all those
matters upon which the progress and
prosperity of a life office depend.
The chairman’s plea that the Govern-
ment should extend to life offices the
same freedom from taxation that is given
to friendly societies, superannuation and
mortuary-benefit funds and savings banks
has much to recommend it. Over the
last 10 years the Government has taken
from the National, and therefore its
policy-holders (there are no share-
holders), nearly £1,800,000 in taxes. A
still more urgent need is comprehensive
Federal legislation for the control of life
assurance in Australia. Under existing
conditions it is controlled by half a
dozen widely varying State laws, none
of which gives the policy-holder the pro-
tection he deserves. A bill along the
right lines was put in the cupboard by
the Senate in 1929, and has remained
there since.
The £44,540,109 of funds controlled by
the National at Sept. 30 was invested
in this way:
, 1936 s , 1937 ,
p.c. p.c.
Freeholds .. ..£1,745,535 4.1 £1,759,048 4.0
Public securities . . 20,261,045 47.6 21’,532,651 48.3
Mortgages .. .. 9,187,679 21.6 9,624,383 21.6
Foreclosures .. 356,876 0.8 404,208 0.9
Loans on policies. . 5,646,535 13.3 5,470,994 12.3
Other assets .. 5,372,081 12.6 5,748,825 12.9
The year’s surplus went mainly into
Government securities (up £1,271,606),
mortgages (up £436,704) and other assets,
chiefly cash, etc. (up £376,744). Another
encouraging feature is the reduction of
£175,541 in loans on policies.
Greater J. D. Williams Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividends. senes. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 18,382 10 p.c. = 18,051 331 64,867
1928.. 21.211 10 „ „ 21,341 64,737
1929.. 28,144 8 „ „ 27,654 490 65,227
1930.. 2,658 Nil 2,658 67,885
Loss.
1931.. 401 Nil 67,484
Profit.
1932.. 478 Nil 478 67,962
Claim charged to reserves, £2674 .. 65,288
Loss.
1933.. 226 Nil 65,062
Profit.
1934.. 1,231 Nil 1,231 66,293
Net addition reserves, £2190 .. 68,483
1935.. 1.107 Nil 1.107 69,590
1936.. 1,512 Nil 1,512 71.102
1937.. 1,459 Nil)
Doubtful debts, £lOOO j 459 71 > 561
This is one of the four holding cos.
(Spencer’s, Wests and Amalgamated are
the other three) through which the public
is interested in the tangled and depressed
group of Union Theatres, which is one
of the two leading organisations (Hoyts
is the other) operating picture theatres
throughout Australia. Paid capital is
£397,029, in front of which is a mort-
gage of £38,000 and £692 coming to
sundry creditors, etc. Chief asset is
shares in Greater Union, Australasian
Films (Holding), Union Theatres (in
liq.) and Australasian Films (in liq.), m
at £470,473. The auditors accept no
responsibility for this figure. Remaining
assets are the Melba Theatre, Bourke-
street, Melbourne, in at £33,639 ; fittings,
£560 ; cash and debtors, £4363. The co.
has received a cash offer of £135,000 for
the theatre freehold, but wants £150,000,
which would enable it to repay the mort-
gage and leave £112,000, subject to exes.,
including compensation to Greater Union
for cancellation of the lease, which has
about 5| years to run.
The eight years’ drought for share-
holders is due to the operating cos.
having paid no divs. since 1929. Such
profits as this holding co. has earned
have been derived from rentals from
the Melba Theatre, etc. However, there
have been changes in the control of the
operating cos., and their earnings are ex-
pected to increase, but their debt to the
bank will stand in the way of dividends
for a while.
The scheme whereby shareholders in
the four holding cos. were to exchange
their scrip for shares in Greater Union,
thus giving them a direct voice in the
control of the chief operating co., ■ has
been shelved for the time being; it is
to be revived when Greater Union earns
“satisfactory profits.” Meanwhile, five
apparently superfluous subsidiaries—
British Empire Films (East), Australasian
Films (East), Greater Union (Tas.),
Greater Union (Management) and Brick-
field Freeholds —are to be wound up, the
aim being reduction of overhead and
more efficient control of the group. It
will then consist of four major cos.:
Greater Union, to deal with the exhibit-
ing ; Cinesound Productions, for produc-
tion of Australian pictures ; British
Empire Films, to deal with distribution
of British and American films ; National
Theatre Supply Co., to handle the
supply and distribution of theatre equip-
ment.
The arrangement whereby for the last
five years Greater Union and Hoyts have
pooled their interests in city theatres
throughout the State capitals on a 50-50
basis ran out at the end of 1937 and
will not be renewed. General Theatres
Corp., which was formed for the pur-
pose, will continue to function as a
separate co. (still jointly owned on the
same basis) because during the period
of partnership it acquired interests in
the Embassy, Empire and King’s Cross
theatres, Sydney, and in the Ambassadors
Theatre, Perth, all of which it will con-
tinue to operate. The other 36 theatres
under the corporation’s control will pass
13 to Hoyts and 23 to Greater Union.
Hoyts, however, are building a number
of new theatres, which means that com-
petition will get more of an edge on it.
Earnings of the Greater Union group
compare as follows for the four years
to June 30, 1937: —
TQO4 -lQQff ino*. * 1 QQ'7
Greater Union .. £6,043 £21,751 £24,982 £21,060
Oinesound .. 8,796 4,742 2,680 5,254*
Brit. Empire Films 242 2,292 8,634* 15,706*
Nat. Theatre Supply 217* 447* 738* 8,934*
Group profit .. £14,864 £30,338 £ 18,290 £8,834*
* Loss.
Since the close of accounts Cinesound
and British Empire Films have turned
losses into profits, and National Theatre
Supply has reduced its losses to £l5OO
for the six months to the end of 1937.
The .committee of management appointed
to conduct the business of Greater
Union has “budgeted for a net
profit, exclusive of taxation, of £48,823
for the year ending December 31, 1938,”
and it reckons the estimate is on the
conservative side, subject, of course, to
trading conditions, including the course of
competition and the supply of first-class


fNOBEq
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
iNOBED
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH. W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited,
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith Ss Company, Limited.'
DARWIN. N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty„ Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Monro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
Public Notices.
The Producers* Co-operative
Distributing Society Limited.
NOTICE.
Sydney.
NOTICE is hereby given that the TWELFTH
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of Share-
holders in THE PRODUCERS’ CO-OPERA-
TIVE DISTRIBUTING SOCIETY LIMITED
will be held at the SOCIETY’S HEAD OFFICE,
QUAY & VALENTINE STREETS, SYDNEY,
on FRIDAY, 21st JANUARY, 1938, at 2.15
p.m. sharp.
Business:
To receive Directors’ Report and Balance Sheet
as at 30th September, 1937.
To elect Directors.
To elect Auditors.
To transact any other business that may be
brought forward in accordance with the Rules
of the Society.
Dated the 10th day of December, 1937.
By order of the Board,
R. BLACKET, F.C.1.5.,
Secretary.
ARCOLEUM RUBBER COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
(In Liquidation).
(Formerly The Australian Rubber Co., Ltd.)
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a First
and Final Dividend, being return of capital of
lOfd. per share, has been declared in this
matter. On production of Scrip Certificates
to me, a cheque for the amount of such divi-
dend will be forwarded by return.
D. R. S. McGREGOR, Liquidator,
430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
INVENTORS.-—-Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELIAS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals.— Advt.
* * * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company. Limited, 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills,
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammers,
etc. Write to us for particulars. —Advt.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“YelgabMelbourne.
“PUMPMOBIL”
(PORTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION IN PRICES.
..PUMPMOBIL"
Extensively used by Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete. . 1201 b.
Capacity .. .. 12,000 gallons per hour
Consumption .. Benzine or
Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
Country and Interstate Agents Wanted.
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
j
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The- ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
films. The £48,823 is equal to 4.2 p.c.
on the aggregate paid capital (£1,146,752)
of the four holding cos. But there is the
overdraft (£348,873, or about £20,000
below the limit) calling for reduction,
which means that dividends are pushed
into the future.
The market prices Greater J.D.W.’s
fully-paid pound shares at 65., at which
figure the return would be 6.6 p.c. on a
2 p.c. div. basis.
Mineral Output of N. S. Wales
Including the output of quarries,
mineral production in N. S. Wales over
the last nine years compares as follows:
1929. . £14,573,783 1934. . £10,267,717
1930.. 11,350,106 1935.. 12,200,528
1931.. 8,189,748 1936.. 13,109,000
1932.. 7,987,666 1937*. 15,500,000
1933.. 8,880,953
* Approximate.
The spring of nearly £2,400,000 in last
year’s figure, which is the best since 1928,
is due mainly to the rise in prices, es-
pecially for base metals in the early
part of the year.
At the Barrier, which is the largest
silver-lead-zinc field in the world, the
five big operating cos. had an aggregate
of 5230 names on their payrolls at the
end of November, compared with an
average of 4095 for 1936. The quantity
of crudes raised was 1,450,000 tons, up
95,000 tons. The value of concentrates,
etc., dispatched was put at £5,360,000, up
£1,375,000. This is the value accruing
to N. S. Wales only. When the value
arising from treatment of concentrates,
etc., chiefly at Port Pirie (S. Aus.), and
exchange are taken into the reckoning,
the Broken Hill mines make a very sub-
stantial contribution to the national in-
come. Good progress is being made with
the development of the l southern exten-
sion of the lode on New B.H. Consoli-
dated’s property. Zinc Corp., which has
added substantially to its ore reserves,
is reconstructing and enlarging its mill,
and so is the North, while a new slime-
treatment plant commenced work on the
residue dumps at the old Proprietary
mine as the year closed. Also, owing to
the high prices of metals earlier in the
year, a lot of prospecting has been car-
ried out beyond the northern fault in
the line, thus far without any conspicu-
ous success. The year opened with
lead averaging £27 4s. 3d. per ton in
London for January ; the figure rose to
£36 7s. 6d. a couple of months later,
since when there has been a steady re-
cession, the year closing with the price
at £l5 11s. 3d.
The coalmining industry did a little
better, thanks to increased consumption
and a slight rise in prices. The year’s
output was 9,900,000 tons (up 700,000
tons), valued at £5,720,000 (up £598,000).
The average price was about 11s. 6d. per
ton as against 17s. 7d. in 1927, when
more than 11,126,000 tons, valued at
£9,782,000, was produced. Few in this
still-sick industry are now able to squeeze
much, if any, profit out of the business,
and it is difficult to say when they are
likely to.
The output of coke, 940,000 tons (up
47,000 tons), valued at £938,000 (up
£137,000), was a record, thanks to
stronger demand on account of increased
steel production.
Gold production, never great, was
68,600 fine ounces (up 7800 oz.), valued
at £A600,700 (up £A73,300); the quantity
won was the largest since 1918. The 1938
figures should receive a nice lift from
New Cobar, recently brought to produc-
tion, and from dredging units, etc., in
the Wellington, Gulgong and Hill End
districts, which should commence pro-
duction early this year.
Cement producers had a better year,
the outturn being 388,000 tons (up 88,000
tons), valued at £1,261,000 (up £275,000).
But aggregate plant capacity for the State
(approximately 800,000 tons p.a.) is cap-
able of taking care of double the volume
of business transacted last year.
The value of the output of minerals
in Tasmania for 1937 was £3,244,000-
odd, which eclipses all previous records.
In 1905 and 1906 it exceeded two and a
quarter million pounds ; for the succeed-
ing 30 years the figure was fairly steady
around one and a half million; during
the depression years 1931 and ’32 it fell
back to less than a million. Last year’s
figure would have been better still but
for the coalminers’ strike, which is still
on, the three largest pits in the State
being out of production. Mt. Lyell and
the Electrolytic Zinc Co.’s mines at Mt.
Read-Rosebery were the chief producers.
Figures for the State were: Copper,
13,309 tons, £1,008,838 ; zinc, 23,704
tons, £664,036 ; silver, 1,102,4020 z.,
£124,395; carbide, cement, limestone,
395,598 tons, £444,318 ; gold, 20,8190 z.,
£183,243 ; lead, 9300 tons, £270,928 ;
tin, 989 tons, £302,758 ; wolfram, 293
tons, £108,852; osmiridium, 5470 z.,
£12,341.
* * * *
Bulolo Gold Deposits, formed in 1932
to take over properties along the Wau
and Bulolo, New Guinea, finished the
year to June 30 last £3355 to the good,
thanks to its tribute over N.G. Goldfields’
Koranga property, which yielded a net
profit of £3845. On the co.’s own leases
results were disappointing, 206,600 c.y.
being sluiced for a gold yield of £7205,
an average recovery of 8.3 d. per yard ;
all-in mine costs worked out at 7.6 d. per
c.y. Work on the Bulolo terraces has
since been discontinued, and the plant
shifted to the Morobe Deposits lease,
taken over during the year for £2lOO,
payable £5OO down, balance over two
years. Recent recoveries from this area,
estimated by the manager to contain
2,500,000 c.y., are claimed to have aver-
aged 22.3 d. per c.y., and “values are im-
proving as work is extended.” Testing
of the property by shaft-sinking com-
menced in May, but so far nothing has
been said about results, beyond that in
the Morobe Deposits and neighboring
Morobe Alluvials blocks “approx.
5,000,000 c.y. of payable ground” is
available. Shareholders’ prospects de-
pend mainly on how these two areas pan
out; the Alluvials lease yielded the
vendor an average of 2s. 3d. per c.y.
from 44,995 c.y. Production at the rate
of 360,000 c.y. annually is forecast in a
few months. An option over an alluvial
proposition at Graytown (Vic.) has been
abandoned. At June 30 the co. had cash
and bullion on hand totalling £4766
liabilities at the same date were £1829.
The 25.-paid shares, of which 47,842 are
issued, have slipped from 2s. 2d. to Is.
2d. in the market over the last 12 months.
* * * *
Sulphide Gold (Junction Reefs), Ltd.,
has had no luck with its show at Man-
durama (N.S.W.). Chief bugbear has
been the treatment and recovery prob-
lem. To provide for new plant, etc.,
227,500 20 p.c. 2s. cum. prefs. were
issued, and mostly left on the hands of
the underwriter, Mt. Morgan Develop-
ments, during the last half of 1936. The
five months to the beginning of Decem-
ber, 1936, were devoted to reconstruction
of the plant, and expenditure for that
period (£13,684) was charged to capital.
During the seven months to the end of
June last, the co. treated 11,097 tons
of sdwt. ore for 17510 z. fine gold, which
realised £13,805, or a shade under
255. per ton of ore. Another £l5 was'
gathered in rent, etc. Expenditure
amounted to £15,401, or a shade over
275. per ton of ore, leaving the balance
£l5Bl on the wrong side. The co. has
now handed itself over, practically lock,
stock and barrel, to Mt. Morgan De-
velopments, which has been appointed
general manager at £4OOO a year. Out of
this the g.m. will provide the co. with an
office and secretary in Sydney. The De-
velopments co. has been supervising
operations since the middle of April, and
has reduced the rate of loss at which the
co. is operating. Nothing is said about
ore reserves, which were put at 233,400
tons, averaging over sdwt., a couple
of years ago. Doubtful whether share-
holders will ever get anything out of the
venture, the market prices the scrip at
6d. or thereabouts.
* * * *
Knight F. H. Hamilton, chairman of
Associated Mining and Finance, Ltd.,
and a director of Wiluna, made some
interesting remarks on the mining posi-
tion of the latter at the former co.’s
meeting in London. He said it was
difficult to take clear-cut views regarding
the future of a mine which during the
last 6} years had produced gold to the
value of £A6,000,000 and which seemed
at one stage likely to become the largest
gold-producer in the Commonwealth.
Certainly the time had not yet come to
abandon hope of more favorable de-
velopments. Wiluna was large, reserves
of developed ore were considerable,
while an extensive area, especially to the
south, remained almost unexplored. In
this connection he recalled that a bore-
hole drilled 1229 ft. south of the main
shaft at the end of 1936 encountered the
east (main) lode at a depth of 2100 ft.,
or 300 ft. below the deepest existing level.
Width of lode disclosed was 16ft., and
assays averaged 4.2dwt. Approximately
10ft. of this lode averaged s.2dwt. Still,
it would be foolish to ignore the signifi-
cance of the progressive impoverishment
that had persisted for so long. The
average of last month’s developmental
exposures shows no improvement.
By contrast, Wiluna’s northern neigh-
bor, the Moonlight, operated by Gold
Fields Australian Development, is ob-
taining encouraging results from develop-
ment, but at shallower depths than
Wiluna has reached. Moonlight’s ore
reserves at the end of last year stood at
338,000 tons of 6dwt. grade. Production
has increased to about 8500 tons a
month, and, although smelting has been
interrupted more than once and a big
pile of untreated concentrates accumu-
lated, a satisfactory margin of profit is
being earned. Two other properties in
which Gold Fields Australian Develop-
ment is interested (Yellowdine and
Comet) are producing profitably and,
according to recent official reports,
appear to be looking well. Wiluna holds
a big interest in Gold Fields Australian
Development.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Labor member Bill Marshall’s
bill to abolish the system of mining
reservations passed the Westralian
Assembly despite vigorous opposition by
Minister for Mines Munsie. The Coun-
cil suggested a compromise whereby
reservations would be granted subject
to supervision by Parliament, which
would have power of cancellation. This
proposal was adopted at a conference of
representatives of both Houses, with an
additional proviso limiting areas of
occupancy t 6 300 acres.
* * * *
Minerva Centre, Ltd., the co. which is
putting up two all-purpose theatres at
King’s Cross, Sydney, announces that its
issue of 53,500 £1 ords. has been over-
subscribed. The builders are already at
work on the Minerva site, and work on
the Paradise one is expected to start at an
early date. The 25,000 7 p.c. preference
shares which the co. is also offering will
be available to the public on January 14.


JA V A
This land of countless attractions awaits you
ancient temples—beautiful scenery—native customs
and colourful bazaars. Your luxury liner visits many
interesting ports along the smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious decks, restful
lounges, a tiled swimming pool, and talking picture
equipment.
At your request, we shall be
pleased to fonvard Folder No. 61.
BUMS, PHILP
& CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 7901
m
,• V
mi
si
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
31 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE 332 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
And at TOWNSVILLE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
Patents.
CLOSURE CAP FOR BOTTLES AND
THE LIKE.
THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
21332/35 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
anc( Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
JUDGMENT-
voSJ^VBJTy
in investment is paramount, especially when your capital
is small and cannot be easily spread for safety. That is
why you should investigate FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT
TRUST CERTIFICATES. They give you a “spread”
over 20 famous companies, prospects of capital appreciation
plus a yield of over 6% p.a. Sums of approx. £22 and
upwards accepted. Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Action to-day will be wise—and profitable. Write for Booklet No. 1
to the Managers: —
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: B5294.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Neon Sign Cos.
Throughout Australia and Maoriland
shops and buildings are growing more
gaily decorated at night by reason of the
popularity of gas-filled electric signs.
Brilliant glowing colors have rapidly
taken the place of painted signs where
five years ago the neon article was con-
sidered a novelty. Practically every
capital-city Stock Exchange offers an
opportunity of buying shares in a neon-
sign-leasing co., and in the vicinity of
half a million of capital has gone into
the business.
In buying shares in a neon-sign co.
the average investor is liable to put his
foot well in it if he interprets it as a
grocer’s-shop proposition or an ordi-
nary hiring-out business.
To start with, the neon part of the
sign has to be tailor-made —made
to a particular name, design and speci-
fication. It is leased, not sold. When
the lease is up, and McGillicuddy,
the lessee, is rubbing his chin and “con-
seedering” whether he will renew
it, he may not overlook the fact
that “McGillipuddy’s Boots” in orange
and blue lettering may be difficult for
the co. to hire out elsewhere without ex-
tensive alteration. He may therefore
make a take-it-or-leave-it offer for the
next leasing period ; and the co. may be
obliged to accept the offer, though it has
an advantage over a new tenderer in that
the sign is already made.
A couple of hypothetical cases of sign
contracts will throw light on the finan-
cial and profit-earning basis of some such
cos. Usually a sign is leased for five
years when it is first made. The crux
of the profit-earning position depends
on how much the sign cost to make, ex-
pressed in so many years’ rent. If the
cost equals two years’ rent, then there is
three years’ rent for gross profit, assum-
ing that the lease isn’t renewed and the
sign has no break-up value —equal
to 30 p.c. p.a. on cost over five years.
If the cost is three years’ rent, gross
profit is two years’ rent, dropping pre-
cipitously to 13 p.c. p.a. on cost. Cost
may represent capital outlay only; in
such a case selling, maintenance, office
exes, and taxes would have to be charged
against gross profit before the net figure
could be estimated.
It is apparent from the accounts of
most sign cos. that initial capital outlay
is heavy. It is equally obvious that most
of the expenditure is represented by
signs leased. The question should arise
in the minds of investors as to whether
they consider the majority of the signs
will maintain their rental values after the
initial leasing period is up, and whether
they will continue to function satisfac-
torily without considerable upkeep ex-
penditure.
These questions should also arise in
the minds of the management of the sign
cos. when estimating profits for the year.
Some mention allowance for “amortisa-
tion” of signs, others “depreciation” ; the
matter is of sufficiently serious import-
ance to shareholders, however, to war-
rant the publication in the annual ac-
counts of the specific basis on which
capita] outlay is being written off.
Assume that a co. put out signs solidly
for four years (cost equal to three years’
rental), and then sought no new business.
If it wrote the cost of each sign off over
five years it would be able to show about
13 p.c. p.a. gross profit on outlay over
that period ; after that an increasing
proportion of the signs would stand in
the books at nil, which would mean that
necessity for depreciation would decrease
and profit-margins increase—provided
always that maintenance costs didn’t rise
and rentals didn’t fall. After nine years
all signs should stand in the books at
nothing.
But if uneconomic competition springs
up in the neon-sign business it may mean
lower —and injurious—rentals. On the
other hand, those cos. which were early
in the field may have sufficient rentals
already tied to them to see them through
a long period of onslaught by com-
petitors, who could easily cut their own
throats in two or three years if they
made rent-slashing too hot.
War and possibilities thereof have now
taken the place once occupied by real
and imagined grievances against money
systems in the minds of many people. If
there were no wars on the horizon the
betting is 10 to 1 that the erratic develop-
ments relating to finance and industry
during 1937 would have represented a
major subject for public discussion. As
gambling on the possibilities of war-
spending had a good deal to do with the
ups and downs in world prices during
last year, ordinary economic factors have
been more or less submerged. Human
nature finds it much easier to think in
terms of supply and demand than in ex-
change parities, consumer buying-power
and the relation between costs and prices.
Nevertheless the peculiar problems of the
United States, a country which exercises
considerable influence on world finance,
are largely divorced from war matters, and
in the financial columns, if not in the
general pews, the economic barometer
in the USA. forms a subject of keen
study. It is usually acknowledged that
in that part of the world trade is more
than a bit ragged. Despite, or because
of, enormous public spending, confidence
isn’t everywhere evident in the States. As
we know in this country, confidence is
one of the great factors in reviving busi-
ness and employment.
* * * *
The Commonwealth national debt at
June 30, 1937, was £1,262,871,000, up
£8,000,000 during the year. Since 1933,
more by force of circumstances than
political willingness, the growth has been
slowing down. In the 12 months to
June, 1934, £18,000,000 Was added to the
slate, £19,500,000 in the next term, and
£12,500,000 to June, 1936.
By reason mainly of Mr. Bruce’s well-
handled conversion of London loans to
lower rates of interest, our bill for ser-
vicing the national debt has dropped
from £46,515,000 p.a. in 1932-33 to
£44,952,000 in 1936-37. The average
rates applicable to those two years were
£4 2s. Bd. per cent, and £3 16s. per cent,
respectively. The rate paid in London,
ignoring exchange, has come down from
£4 9s. 6d. p.c. in 1932-33 to £3 18s. Id.
p.c. in 1936-37.
Growth in population in 1936-37 for
once in a way caught up with the swell
in the national debt. At £lB4 18s. lOd.
a head on June 30 last, the debt compares
with £lB5 6s. lid. a year earlier.
* * * #
Our commercial airways are growing.
In the 1936-37 financial year 85,574 fare-
paying passengers were carried, up 25,000
(40 p.c.) on the figure of the preceding
year. Mails handled weighed 167,6011 b.,
up about 38 p.c. There was actually a
fall from 228 to 214 in the number of
registered civil aircraft, but if the carry-
ing capacity were recorded there would
undoubtedly be an increase—the huge
new Douglas and Stinson liners must
be equal to half a dozen light aircraft.
Licensed commercial pilots rose in num-
ber from 236 to 265. Mileage flown by
all types of civil ’planes lifted from
5,819,751 to 8,731,612 over the year.
Guinea Airways and Qantas are among
the few cos. in which Australian inves-
tors are directly interested, but through
Adelaide Steam and Huddart, Parker the
progress of the big Australian National
Airways is of concern to them. A great
speeding-up and unification of eastern-
State services has recently occurred.
* * * *
Swan Bitter, Jonesville (W.A.), having
got on to something that looks bigger
and better than any of the small quartz
enrichments handled to date, the 4s.
shares (140,775 issued) lifted to above
3s. in Adelaide, after dropping to
around Is. at one stage last year. A
number of people burnt their fingers in
the syndicate float; Mt. Morgan
Developments abandoned some sub-
options from the co. in April, 1935, and
there were fears for the worst by many
holders. However, a second 3d. div. was
paid last month, and creditors are
down to a minimum. Very low costs to
date have beaten the low grade.
* * * *
An undesirable method of talking
about ore reserves of goldmines has be-
come fairly common lately. So many
ounces of gold, worth so much, without
regard to the quantity of dirt and rock
mixed up with it, means no more to the
mining investor than an estimate of the
value of gold in the Pacific Ocean —
there is a lot of it there, but extraction is
unpayable. So when a mining engineer
or director gets off a train or boat and
is asked for the latest “dope” by press
reporters, he would be doing a service if
he kept his mouth shut, unless he was
able to talk about grade as well as total
estimated gold content. Another thing
sometimes done is to include a lot of
unpayable values with highly payable
stuff, the average coming out on the pay-
able side. Shareholders should be told
what different blocks of ore in different
zones assay at each balance day, because
often the rich stuff is worked out first.
Even if it is used to sweeten the low-
grade ore the question must arise as to
whether it wouldn’t be better to work the
mine as a small high-grade proposition
than a large low-grade show that calls
for a high capital and expensive plant.
* * * *
“Real” wages —wages based on their
power to buy household necessities —in
mid-1937 were higher than the averages
for 1927 or 1928, generally conceded to
be years of “prosperity.” The Redd-
away increase came after mid-1937 ; since
then there has been an increase in the
cost of living, but the advantage has not
yet been all lost to the worker—it would
have been tough luck indeed if it had.
However, there are indications of sudden
rises of prices in some cases. During the
heat and crowds of the Christmas season
a Sydney seaside milk-bar doing a roar-
ing business pasted a “5d.” notice over
the “4d.” sign on its price-board. For
the sake of the whole country it is to be
hoped that extra pennies don’t start
adhering to charges for the things we
eat, drink and wear.
* * * *
Building activity has always been an
indicator of employment and business
conditions, and construction figures for
Commonwealth capital cities and suburbs
appear to be in step with trade-union
returns. In the first nine months of 1937
12,327 new buildings and dwellings went
up in the six metropolises, the value being
£19,089,500. Corresponding figures for
the first nine months of 1936 were 11,703
buildings, value £17,673,000.
* * * *
Real-estate turnover in N. S. Wales
for 11 months to the end of November
totalled £33,768,000, easily a post-depres-
sion record, being £222,000 higher than
the total for the preceding full 12 months.
Mortgages entered into during the 11
months (£21,831,000) were also up on
figures for the preceding 12.
* * * *
Since the beginning of 1937 there has
been an unbroken rise in the amount of
wages paid by principal N. S. Wales fac-
tories. The average payrolls of 42 of the
largest for 1937 worked out at 12 p.c,
higher than for 1936. Towards the end
of the later year the increase in wage-
rates had something to do with it, but
there was an actual increase of about 7
p.c. in employment, and the term finished
strongly.
* * * *
Britain periodically has odd “invest-
ment” offerings as well as Australia,
which has seen pine-trees, tobacco and
banana acres, coalmines and Angora-
rabbit farms sold in the form of “bond”
or share propositions. In England there
was a craze for silver-fox farms for a
time —some were offered almost in the
familiar cat-and-rat-farm terms- —and
now there are offers of mushroom-beds,
with suggestions of a 10 p.c. return. The
President of the Board of Trade has said
that he was satisfied anyone investing in
mushroom (literally) cos. was taking a
very great risk.
* * * *
One boomlet in the markets of the
past year concerned wolfram, to mine
which a Melbourne co., King Island
Scheelite, was floated two or three
months back. At 31s. stg. per unit early
in 1937, the stuff soared to nearly 130 s.
when hostilities broke out between China
and Japan. The Chinese, who produce
most of the world’s wolfram, had a lot
of forward sales to complete when trouble
started, and fears that shipment might
be impossible sent the price sky-high.
But delivery was effected through Hong
Kong and from stocks held in New York.
The metal has since flopped to about 655,
per unit in London.
Wolfram and tungstic acid are practi-
cally synonymous terms. Tungsten is
used for hardening steel and in electric-
lamp filaments. The King Island (Bass
Strait) co. counted on profits of £17,850
p.a. with the metal at 60s. London, or
£51,600 p.a. at 120 s. The sharemarket
has been disappointed with recent de-
velopments as regards price, and the co.’s
scrip is now below par.


AUST RALIAfM
WOMANS MIRROR
A “Bulletin ” production
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
The Phantom—Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
ĵ
The Long White Cloud
“We’re This Near!”
Crossing the Tasman by air and by
sea, the Empire flying-boat Centaurus
and the Union liner Awatea each reduced
existing records on the same day. The
flying-boat made the Sydney-Auckland
hop in 9 hours 11 minutes, and the
Awatea the Sydney-Wellington trip in
2 days 7 hours 47 minutes. The records
were “only incidental” to the success-
ful completion of service trips, for this
is how Imperial Airways also regarded
the flight of its Centaurus.
To laymen on both sides of the Tas-
man, the Centaurus flight can mean a
great deal. It emphasises the fact that,
but for inter-Government wrangling,
Government, commercial and private
correspondence could even now be pass-
ing between the two countries as swiftly
as from Perth to Adelaide, or from
Adelaide to Brisbane, via Melbourne and
Sydney. The service flying time on the
Perth-Adelaide jaunt of 1453 miles is
nine hours ; it is approximately the same
over the 1408-mile route regularly fol-
lowed by machines on the dovetailing
sections of the Adelaide-Brisbane trip.
Imperial spokesmen, taking the inter-
national view, have been urging closer
Maoriland-Australia co-operation in de-
fence. Nothing could further this ideal
more quickly than the early inaugura-
tion of the trans-Tasman air service.
Modern long-range bombing machines
could take the Tasman in their stride,
especially with the use of the radio direc-
tional aids and the weather services
which must be operating before the Tas-
man airmail can become a bi-weekly
fact.
“Mak”: Although 1937 was a year of
exceptional wage lifts and working-hour
concessions, it was a bad one for Maori-
land in the matter of industrial troubles.
In the nine months until September there
were 42 holdups compared with 32 for
the same period of the previous year;
they lasted for a total of 272 days, com-
pared with 79, and cost 9677 malcontents
£22,577 in wages as against the £9236
lost by 6445 workers in 1936. Coal-
miners, watersiders and freezing workers
were those most affected. Labor Minister
Armstrong has repeatedly warned union-
ists that his Government will not suffer
dictation from any section of the com-
munity ; but other political Labor leaders
constantly tell the world, not only of
what they have done for the worker in
such a short time, but of the host of
ideals they still plan to realise. Coal-
miners and watersiders are inclined to
take such blurbs at their word-value, and
fondly believe that any demands they
may make will be furthered by a sym-
pathetic Government. This year will hold
more trials for the Government than a
mere election.
* * * *
“Xo”: Not many years ago the arrival
of a new teacher at any rural school was
an event of considerable social specu-
lation, and Maorilanders who fondly
imagined that distance-eating motor-cars
would reduce departmental-wedding de-
fections have changed their minds. And
now the schools can be robbed of their
dental nurses as well as their teachers.
The Waikato has reported a sharp de-
crease in the number of schoolchildren
who received dental-clinic attention over
the last six months ; nearly 800 eligible
children were spared the doubtful satis-
faction of having their baby teeth oper-
ated on because Wellington couldn’t
supply trained nurses quickly enough to
meet matrimonial resignations. Now
there are sages who actually blame the
car for the heavy marriage mortality
among these youthful near-dentists. They
say it gives the city boy friend the oppor-
tunity to make competition keener in
country districts.
* sf * *
“Motu”: Nearly 200 King Country
Maoris shared the pleasant Christmas
box of £2500 as a result of the settle-
ment by arbitration of a compensation dis-
pute with a timber-cutting company.
Native owners of the bush blocks sought
a higher compensation rate —and a
woman got it for them. The dispute
looked like fizzling out, so she staged a
personal sit-down strike on the railway
line which the company uses to deliver
its logs to the mill. She sat for three
days and three nights, and, contrary to
the best American lumber fiction, not
one enginedriver absentmindedly ran
her down, nor did a single mill boss take
“Now I Wonder what ’e wants”
a potshot at her. Official Maoriland
deigned to notice Te Kuiti’s Mrs.
Gandhi, and the dispute was aired in
Parliament. Arbitration followed, and
the Maoris got their extra cash just be-
fore Christmas. The she rail-sitter? She
was probably well rewarded ; the Maori
is a generous fellow.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: The North Island accident-
indicator produced by Maoriland’s
Semple-inspired Transport Department
does little more than emphasise the fact
that most road accidents occur on the
busiest highways. It is a road map on
which chunks of main highways where
motor smashes occurred between March
and November are outlined in heavy
black. The worst sector is the arterial
road leading from Hamilton to Auck-
land ; the Hamilton-Te Aroha-Tirau
route through the Waikato’s closely-
settled dairying acres is no more black
than the new Plymouth-Hawera stretch
in similar Taranaki country ; the Napier-
Hastings run and the Wanganui-Palmer-
ston North-Takapau highway also figure
on the Semple holiday-warning sheet. But
because these roads N must carry streams
of converging traffic, they are necessarily
well surfaced; and I’ll bet there’s some
more Maoriland hot-air about Govern-
ment-sponsored “speedways.” Actually,
ambulances and breakdown wagons
would have a lot more work if these sec-
tors were as not well formed and as
excellently signposted.
* * * *
“Korero”: Imagine the consternation
in the office of Maoriland’s Labor “Stan-
dard”—stout champion of higher wages,
shorter hours and every other Savage
Government experiment—when this small
par. was discovered in the week’s front-
page feature story on how speedily a
mechanised P.W.D. is completing the
South Island main trunk railway line:
Conditions on the job have been vastly
improved, hours of work have been in-
creased and the workers and their families
are housed in model townships.
It also mentioned that the 20,000 em-
ployees “are a happy band of men, giving
of their best in the service of the coun-
try, knowing their their chief [Minister
Semple] is always their friend, so long
as they give a fair day’s work for the
wages they are receiving.” After this
pen-picture of contentment, the reference
to increased working hours couldn t be
left undenied, so next week an inch or
so of the front page was used to describe
it as an “unfortunate typographical
error,” and to add that it was the wages
that had been increased, the hours being
chopped to 40 a week.
• * * *
“Fergus”: Benefits of the native hous-
u , , , .
mg scheme boomed by Government
spokesmen are being limited to Maoris
capable of meeting interest and sinking-
fund charges in addition to ordinary
maintenance expenses. A couple of small
houses have been completed in Poverty
Bay and four more are to be built early
this year; but all are for Maori families
with sufficient land rentals to meet costs
that are well beyond the means of tribes-
men really in need of better housing.
Still, these poorer natives are getting
something out of the scheme. Native
labor is being employed where possible ;
Maori carpenters do the actual building
and the timber is coming from a mill
established on Maori land, cutting Maori
trees and employing Maori hands.
* * * *
tITT . . .
.”! 1 ' claim for winning the
Maori War, after Hone Heke cut loose
at Kororareka in 1844-46, is new to me.
At that period the 99th Regiment was
stationed at Sydney, and drafts had been
sent to the North Island to deal with
the Maoris. A Captain G. Mann, in
1845, found in the stores at the barracks,
Sydney, piles of shells. He con-
structed a brass mortar for these shells,
formed a detachment from the 99th and
practised with the weapon in the
Domain. A dozen of these mortars were
cast and taken to Maoriland by a com-
pany of the Bombay Artillery. Field
guns used against our cannibal brothers
had not been able to drive them from
the palisaded pahs, but the mortars, lob-
bing bombs over, did the trick, and Heke
skied the towel.
* * * *,
“Kohi”: Otaki, less than 50 miles
north of Wellington, has another church
with unusual architectural features (B.
29/12/*37) and a history that reaches
back to the earliest days of white settle-
ment in Maoriland. It is a wooden struc-
ture standing among tombstones bearing
inscriptions in Maori and year-dates re-
calling skirmishes with the natives. In-
side, its carved altar-rail and woven-reed
designs tell of the peaceful fusion of the
two races; these are the work of district
craftsmen, themselves descendants of the
warring chief, Te Rauparaha, who used
Kapiti Island, a few miles off the coast,
as his stronghold. The main pillars of
the church rise about 40ft. from the
aisle and are simply the rounded trunks
of huge totara-trees. The main panels
in the walls are cut from similar trees,
and along single surfaces some 30ft. by
4ft. are the marks of the axes used to
shape them,
* * * *
“M”: Australians who demand better
libraries for the people should be inter-
.,.,. T , , •
<f? d m * ° Government is
dom B- The old s S' slcm ol small > lndlvl-
dual subsidies for country libraries has
been discarded in favor of what amounts
to a national library with headquarters
in Wellington. Under a national direc-
tor, field librarians will now distribute
regular loan supplies of carefully-chosen
bo B oks to rura n ibraries in th / ir terri .
tories. In effect, existing libraries are
to enjoy the exchange facilities at present
the privilege of their own subscribers but
on a national scale. It looks to me like
a n idea that would suit Australia’s
widely-separated country towns, many of
which are years behind their Maoriland
counterparts ,n the matter of libraries,
* * * ... *
“W.C.R.”: The authorities in Maori-
land are fully alive to the results of past
lunacy in liberating deer, chamois and
thar . and the prob i em is being grap pied
t- c . , A
Wlth - Frcc from nalLlral e ™ es - ,hese
animals have increased beyond belief,
hke other aliens, such as rabbits, spar-
rows, gorse and blackberry. They first
attack the small trees forming the forest
fl oor T be spongy humus goes dry and
the rains, running unchecked, start de-
nudation and sudden floods. A wise
Maori once said that the white man was
forming a continent in the Tasman with
our best soil. The report of the official
deer-slaying parties gives a total of 34,000
deer, chamois and'thar destroyed in a
year. Top prices rule for deerskins, which
go to the U.S.A.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Mares and three-year-olds continue to
win a power of races. At Caulfield on
Boxing Day the principal handicaps fell
to Dunloe (Hopetoun), Iva (Malvern),
Amiable (Christmas) and Bush Bee
(Juvenile). At Flemington on New
Year’s Day Amiable (Standish) continued
her sequence of victories; all three
places in the Stradbroke Stakes were
filled by fillies; Elanage—like Amiable,
a three-year-old bred in Maoriland —got
home in the Bagot Handicap, and
Damalis in the Welter. Damalis was
reckoned a Derby —and Cup —proposi-
tion till it was decided not to persevere
with his spring preparation.
At Randwick on Thursday Brown
Baroness won the Carrington Stakes,
Silk Felt the Denman Handicap, Dame
Nellie a division of the Maiden Handicap
and Senora the Juvenile Stakes. Dame
Nellie is a three-year-old, and so are
two other Randwick winners that day—
Ilissus in another division of the Maiden
Handicap and Glenora Boy in the Pace
Welter. And on New Year’s Day two
three-year-olds, Bodley Head and Pan-
aster, were first; another, Troy, divided
first place with an older horse, and a
fourth, Bourlon, was an unlucky second
in Tatt.’s Club Cup. Moreover, mares
and fillies got half a dozen minor places.
Brown Baroness (12 to 1) is owned and
trained by Frank McGrath. She hadn't
raced for months, and only McGrath
and his friends fancied her; but she
jumped out in the lead and was never
caught; in fact, nothing even looked
like catching her. Hamurah was second,
three lengths behind the little daughter
of Brazen-Tribute, and Jocular third;
Hammerhead, who got away badly, was
fourth. One of the dismal failures was
Bodley Head, who finished eleventh in
a field of 13. It was a rather miserable
day—very miserable for backers —and
the going was a bit dead ; but Brown
Baroness contrived to run her “six” in
Imin. 12|sec.
In the light of subsequent events the
Denman Handicap is worth describing.
In a field of five Prittle Prattle was
favorite at twos ; the others were Billy
Boy (3 to 1), Holbein (7 to 2), Silk Felt
(5 to 1) and Masterpiece (7 to 1). At
the beginning Billy Boy hit the front, but
the chestnut was passed by Silk Felt, and
the Spearfelt mare soon had a lead of
half a dozen lengths, Holbein and Billy
Boy running second and third. She
never came back to them, and when the
procession ended she was at the head
and Billy Boy at the tail —three lengths
to Holbein (second), four lengths to
Masterpiece (third), two lengths to Prittle
Prattle, a neck to Billy Boy; time,
2min. 61sec.
Naturally Billy Boy went right out of
favor for the Tatt.’s Club Cup on Satur-
day. The Ring tried to lay him at
twelves and fifteens, but had to let him
go to twenties. At that price “Macgill,”
one of the owners, took £lOOO to £5O,
and Jack King, his partner and trainer,
had £7 10s. on.
Billy Boy made a tardy beginning, but
Shean, who rode 31b. overweight—he
had also ridden the nag in the Denman
Handicap—gradually worked him into a
good position. At the entrance to the
straight Billy Boy was third to Country
Party and Sidcup. At the furlong pole
he had dashed to the front, and it
seemed to be all over. Bourbon emerged
from the ruck and gained rapidly on
the leader, but Billy Boy was doing the
better of the pair at the finish.
For a few moments there was an
ominous silence. Then, from flat, Leger
and paddock there burst the loudest and
longest hooting heard at Randwick for
many a year. Angry people of both
sexes collected at the weighing-enclosure
fence and hurled insults at King. He
very foolishly replied by shaking hands
with himself in full view of the demon-
strators, and naturally the cries broke
out afresh. At his instance the stewards
straightway opened an inquiry into Billy
Boy’s running. They must have done it
in any event.
Really Billy Boy’s improvement on his
Thursday’s showing was no greater than
that of Bodley Head, whose success in
the Flying Welter brought a round of
cheers. In that case, however, jockeys
had been changed. Billy Boy was sold
out of Fred Williams’s stable because he
was an in-and-out customer. The going
is blamed for the animal’s sorry per-
formance on the Thursday, but at least
one observer came to the conclusion
that Shean rode a poor race.
With an equal allotment of luck Boui-
bon would have scored. This first of the
Tipplers to stay lost about five lengths
when the barrier was released. His rider,
Billy Cook, appeared to take matters too
lightly when the field streaked away five
furlongs from home ; anyway, Bourbon
made up no ground, and was still last
turning for home. He came with a won-
derful run in the straight, and Billy Boy,
all out, beat him by a neck only. The
time was exceptionally fast —2min.
30isec.
Little Sal Volatile ran a nice race and
got third, ahead of Prittle Prattle, Jour-
nal and Mananui. Mananui was favorite.
He did not look quite ready to run out
a mile and a half, and he should do better
in the Anniversary Flandicap. Country
Party and Sidcup travelled well as pace-
makers, but stopped suddenly. Sidcup
has been a sad disappointment in Sydney.
In the Flying Welter Bodley Head (5
to 1) got up in the last stride. Misnomer
had done most of the leading, and she
struggled on gallantly. Rosmead finished
fast in third place ; had he got away a
bit better he might have beaten both. Let
Slip surprised by running fourth. The
well-backed Stalin began smartly, and
was on the outside of Bodley Head
rounding for home, but he soon turned
it up.
Don Caesar (10 to 1) and Troy (6 to 1)
could not be separated at the finish of
the New Year’s Gift. Night of Love set
up a big lead, but subsided into third
place, and the favorite, Mark Antony,
was never going comfortably.
Munson, the Randwick trainer, re-
turned to the winning list through the
agency of Roving Robin (11 to 2), who
captured the Nursery Handicap from
stablemates Feminist and Anpapejo. A
handsome black colt by Christopher
Robin-Chulan, Roving Robin was ex-
pertly ridden by Andy Knox, making his
reappearance after a spell. Norman was
the pacemaker, but he is too small to
carry weight, and was beaten two fur-
longs from home. Rancher, one of Percy
Miller’s, was made a warm favorite. He
ran greenly, and finished fourth, but he
will do better.
Panaster (10 to 1), trained at Rosehill
by Sarcherie’s mentor, M. Webster, won
the Trial Stakes comfortably from Jeanne
D’Arc and Jester’s Lady, a South Aus-
tralian-owned and -bred mare. Appren-
tice riders got their chance in this race,
and the son of Pantheon and Poetaster
was handled in capital style by Fellows,
who deserves more opportunities to show
his skill. The favorite, Jan, from New-
castle, failed to run out the mile. He
seemed to be just cantering as they turned
into the straight, but was settled a fur-
long from home.
Forestage (10 to 1), a stablemate of
Bodley Head —both are trained by Noud,
who once prepared Lady Medallist —took
the Alfred Hill Handicap from Valbeau
and Coolspell. He had the race in his
keeping three furlongs from home. Sedu-
num, the favorite, beat two home. There
was good money for Lord Bine, but he
lugged badly on the turn, and wound up
seventh. Valbeau had to concede the
winner 381 b., and, considering that the
mile was run in lmin. 36fsec., it was a
creditable performance on the Newcastle
chestnut’s part.
* * * *
Pity there are not more gallopers as
honest as Misnomer about. In the
Sefton Handicap at Warwick Farm on
Monday the bonny little chestnut amply
compensated William Kelso for de-
feat at Randwick two days before.
Brazandt showed great pace for half a
mile ; but Misnomer cut him down and
went on to win nicely from Jocular and
Some Boy. Jocular finished under the
judge’s box. He has never run a bad
race since Cooper bought him, but
always contrives to meet something too
good at the weights.
sic Jfc ♦
Amiable (Lord Quex - Agreeable),
owned by the M.L. sportsman W. R.
Kemball, who lives for the greater part
in Melbourne, registered her third suc-
cessive victory by taking the Standish
Handicap at Flemington on New Year’s
Day. In her previous series of three
starts she scored a win and a second.
The black filly is maturing into a sprinter
of more than average class.
Kemball’s luck on the Victorian turf
has not been commensurate with his
enterprise, for he keeps a big team in
work and employs two trainers. In 1936
Kemball began the New Year by taking
the V.R.C. Bagot Handicap with Green-
horn, who was a rank outsider and car-
ried no stable money. Amiable, by con-
trast, was in only half a point less de-
mand than the 5-to-2 favorite, Beechwood.
Punters at first declared for Amiable,
but transferred their support to Frank
Musgrave’s candidate. When Amiable
vanquished Beechwood by half a neck
at Caulfield on November 20 she was in
receipt of 271 b.; the difference between
them in the Standish was only 121 b.
Beechwood was beaten as soon as they
entered the course proper.
Stoic, a Heroic colt from the stable
of Dick Bradfield, attracted favorable
notice by leading for half a mile. He
had not raced since early in the season,
and will benefit by the outing. There are
few better-looking thoroughbreds than
Stoic in training.
Dave Maenamara, the one-time St.
Kilda footballer, ran second in the Stand-
ish with John Wren’s Irish-bred stallion,
Soltoi, a 20-to-l shot. Soltoi has been
difficult to train, and went wrong in the
. spring, when fancied for the Cups. This
fellow is almost sure to be a Newmarket
Handicap boom. He won a Maiden Plate
at Ascot as a three-year-old and was in
winning brackets twice last season, the
company being weak, Soltoi might stand
up to a Newmarket preparation, but it
would be risky to bet on it.
Third money in the Standish went to
Kemball through the agency of Prince
Quex, his second string, unfancied at 50
to 1. Amiable is trained by Hawthorne ;
Prince Quex by Hilton. In the spring
of 1936 his owner had hopes of Prince
Quex—who then was in the stable of
George Jones —being up to Derby form
and shining over a distance this season.
Apparently the present objective is an
event such as the Newmarket or Don-
caster.
Bailey Payten’s brilliant filly Bush Bee
lost the Stradbroke Stakes by a neck to
Gay Dell (Gay Lothario-Delicious), who
had been unable to get within coo-ee of
her at Caulfield on the Monday. As
Gay Dell was meeting the Sydney flier
on 31b. worse terms at Flemington
backers naturally fought shy of her. Bush
Bee figured at 5 to 4; Gay Dell at
twenties.
Percy Foster, who trains her, always
has claimed that Gay Dell can begin
faster than any galloper on the Mel-
bourne tracks. This asset stood to her
in the race down the straight. A furlong
from home Bush Bee seemed to have
the race in her keeping if the calm de-
meanor of jockey Ray Wilson was any
guide ; but his mount and Gay Dell were
wide apart, and Wilson may have over-
looked—until too late the speed at
which the winner was travelling on the
inner rails.
When Elanage (5 to 2) won the Bagot
Handicap and covered the \\ miles in
2min. 29|sec., he shaved quarter of a
second off the record for the distance
established by Gothic (imp.) in the spring
of 1928. Dictator (15 to 1) and Lihrene
(33 to 1) were having a thrilling set-to
when Elanage swooped down on the out-
side. The M.L. colt has progressed by-
leaps and bounds, his last six starts yield-
ing four wins, a third and a second.
Lou Robertson probably did not give
Dictator more than a rough chance in
the Bagot, but there was nothing uncer-
tain about the manner in which Damalis
—also owned by A. T. Creswick —was
backed for the Welter Handicap. The
Thracian colt firmed from sixes to 5 to 2.
Damalis seems .quite sound now. He
made his rivals look cheap by coming
with a late run to beat Barapic (25 to 1)
and the improving Courage (tens) at his
ease. Keith Voitre handled the winner
in quite his old style.
Neither Wallace Drake, favorite for
the New Year Hurdle, nor Two Kings,
who paralysed wagering on the January
Steeple, was equal to gaining a place.
First-named event went to Nevizes (16
to 1), with Turf Boy and Orford in the
minor places. Conde, old enough to
vote, outpaced Strobus at the end of the
crosscountry race.
Ins and Outs
There were few bright patches in the
holiday cricket. At Melbourne Victoria
beat N.S.W. by 231 on the first innings,
and in Adelaide South Aus. defeated
Queensland by eight wickets. Big scores
were made by Bradman (246), Fingleton
(160), Brown (132), Barnes (97) and
Queensland left-hander Rogers (181);
Rogers, who hit 20 fours, was the most
interesting of the lot. The best bit of
bowling was Fl.-Smith’s six for 96.
For the New Year week-end they
changed over, N.S.W. and Queensland
coming to Sydney, S.A. and Vic. showing
in Melbourne. Cook, opening for the
Queenslanders, was out for 17, made in
131 minutes. Immeasurably more enter-
taining was Rigg’s 118 for Victoria.
Queensland gave N.S.W. 206 runs to
chase; N.S.W. made 241. S. Aus. put
on 304 (FI.-Smith 9 for 135). Victoria
got to 364 (Grimmett 6 for 95).
{Continued on next page.)
Recent contention of a Bulletin
scribe that Australians get their sport
cheaper than any others in the world
gets strong support from the board-track
arena put up by Rufe Naylor in Surry
Hills on behalf of sundry Sydney cycling
bodies. Events are run off at such a bat
that one lot of competitors is scarcely
off the track before the next lot fs
shoved off, and for the three bob, two
and one that lasts from eight o’clock till
about 10.30. Patrons in the three-bob lots
sit soft on ex-theatre leather pews, and
a clear view of the racing is had from
any part. A new line at last Saturday
night’s show was the Amateur Derby,
“human-paced” over a mile. Gray won
his heat with ease, but could only man-
age a fair second to amateur champion
R. Porter in the final. Porter broke the
track record for the last 220 yards
(12.25ec.). L. Rogers, who’d won 12 in
a row at the past few meetings, was com-
fortably making it 13 in a row when he
punctured. He had better luck in the
International Scratch Race, winning from
Beer and Parsons. Striking form, the
Dane, Dissing, rode splendidly to take
the Aces Scratch event from Faure
(France) and Rogers. Dissing also took
the Flying from Horder. The lilywhites
also figured in an Olympic Teams Pur-
suit run over 4000 metres, a team led
by Porter winning.
* * * *
“Loom”: Ayres, who is to coach the
Maoriland rowing crews for the Empire
Games, is well known in Australia. A
fine oarsman in his day he has a great
name as a coach, and Australians who
recall how the 1925 M.L. rowing team
mopped up every event from eights to
sculls it started in in Australia under
his guidance will confess he knows his
job. He was also in charge of the
Maorilanders at the 1930 Empire Games
in Canada.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The amateur-status
ass is raising its head in connection with
the Empire Games. Victorian cyclist
Guyatt has been tossed out of the selec-
tion because at 16 —he is only 17 now
he competed in obscure professional
events. The fact that he has been re-
instated didn’t save him. A Queensland
runner has also had to stand down for
the same reason.
* * * *
“Blade”: The Australian oarsmen for
the Empire Games are now gathered in
Sydney to get into shape before their
races on the Nepean on February 9. For
the first three weeks they train in Syd-
ney, under the eye of coach and selector
Keary, from the Sydney R.C. boathouse
at Abbotsford. After that they go to
the Nepean to top off. Turner will be
the sculling representative.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Roi Sion ; next, Fort Cello.
Peter Moore Cup: Tuckiar;
next, St. Constant.
Moorefield Handicap: Celebrate ;
next, Hope.
Flying Welter: Harlowe; next,
The Jilt.
FOR EPSOM.
J. L. Reilly Stakes: Pooley
Bridge ; next, Lilirene.
Moorabbin Handicap: Dazzling
Star; next, Eastern Maid.
Frankston Welter: Garrio ; next,
Cry Havoc.


"silver edge*
BRAKE LINING
wmrnm
TRADE MARK 1/ REGISTERED .TH E RAYBESTOS CO.
SAVE
There is never any true economy in cheap articles;
particularly does this apply to your motor vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of vnnr hrakps
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” Brake Linings have main-
tained a name for quality, building up a reputation for consistency of
product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove cheaper in the long run
f you ask for your brakes to be relined with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne. Vic.
For YEARS of
r
•i»V:
An accurate tyre gauge is a real asset. A gauge
you can rely on for years is worth far more
than one that is unreliable after a few
months’ use. Pay an extra shilling or
two for a Kismet “CADET"
and enjoy those extra
years of accuracy. •
7 6
m
K
T
CAPET
TY
AUCE
Calibrated 0-501 b. in
lib. units clearly
marked. In neat
leather wallet.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
P.O. Box 71,
Melbourne, Australia.
Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER &
BRO., LTD.,
Eyre Works, Sheffie’j,
England.
Ins and Outs
“Glenelg”: Bradman passed the 6000
mark in inter-State cricket when he
scored 246 in the game against Queens-
land in Adelaide. Bradman has always
been a headache to Queenslanders, among
his scores against them being 131 and
133, 452 n. 0., 253 and the latest, 256.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: The benefit match for
Grimmett and Richardson panned out
much better than the attendance led any-
one to expect. Subscriptions were solid,
and the pair have been handed cheques
for over £lOOO each.
Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: The next Walker Cup
tourney between British and American
amateurs will be played on the old St.
Andrews course on June 3 and 4, sub-
sequent to the British amateur champion-
ship at Troon, which starts on May 23.
Britain has yet to win the Walker Cup.
The British “open” is down for Deal in
June, and alterations reducing the
number of qualifiers and those eligible
for the last two rounds have been an-
nounced. Last year 140 players, includ-
ing all tying for the 140th place, could
qualify, and the first 40 took part in
the last 36 holes. This time 130 only
will be allowed to qualify. As members
of the Australian amateur team in Eng-
land will be taking part in the tourney,
the changes are of interest on this side.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: How wonderful are the
instincts of the brute creation! Reports
from Victoria tell us that a contempla-
tive cow was disturbed in her meditations
by a number of strangely-dressed humans
going through weird antics and uttering
purposeless cries. Disgusted with the
spectacle, the intelligent animal chased
some of the offenders into holes in the
ground and up trees, finally retiring in
triumph. Biased press accounts allege
that the cow was trespassing on a golf
course and had forced the rightful pro-
prietors to evade her wrath in bunkers
and elsewhere. Writer for one is pre-
pared to subscribe for an illuminated
address and a bale of lucerne to be pre-
sented to this bovine Boadicea.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: After raising Cain to
have a match between Von Cramm and
Budge allotted to it, the N.S.W.L.T.A.
did some more raising Cain afterwards.
Budge played like a hardcourts junior,
and the German beat him 6-1, 6-3. Still
the money-mad association should have
been consoled by the attendance (10,000)
and the gate (£2400). It is noteworthy
that the crowd took the American’s per-
formance in much better part than
some of the tin gods, whose remarks were
in dashed bad taste. Budge tried to. ex-
plain that in America players of his
calibre are not serious about exhibition
matches. Many of the public are philo-
sophically ready to admit that the lad
must get dog-tired of playing tennis
all the year round, and having to meet
deadheads and gate-hungry promoters
everywhere.
“Zake”: Budge showed his anxiety to
soothe the ruffled brows of the tennis
heads by asking Crawford to play an
exhibition match with him on the last
day of the Sydney tourney. Generously
received by a bumper crowd, he gave of
his best, to beat the Australian 7-5, 6-1,
6-2. Quist, who has shown improved
form with each match, downed Henkel
6-2, 6-4, 6-2, and Von Cramm proved
too good for Bromwich, though the
latter fought doggedly throughout.
Scores: 6-2, 7-5, 10-8. Bromwich and
Quist again combined splendidly to win
the doubles against the strong German
combination, 6-1, 4-6, 6-4, 8-6.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: In the Von
Cramm-Budge match the umpire gave the
German’s first service a fault, and he
prepared to send along his second.
Budge, however, crossed to the other
court, indicating that, in his opinion, the
service was a correct one. Von Cramm
stood pat. Though Budge waved him to
cross over and begin a new service the
German refused to shift, compelling the
American to return and take his second
in the original court. It was a fine exhi-
bition of courtesy and discipline on the
German’s part, and all who witnessed
the happening are not likely to forget it.
* * * *
The star turn of the American-German
tour, the triangular tourney in Melbourne
between Australia, Germany and the
U.S.A., commences to-morrow with
singles between Mako and Henkel and
Von Cramm and Bromwich, with
doubles between the Americans and Aus-
tralia to follow. On Friday, the singles
will be Henkel-Quist and Budge-
“ Understand, young
Woman, I will not
have the dignity of
this office tarnished
by your coming here
in tennis dress”
Bromwich, with America and Germany
clashing in doubles. On Saturday the
singles will be Mako-Quist and Von
Cramm-Budge, with Germany meeting
Australia in the closing doubles. Quist
and Bromwich will represent Australia
throughout.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: The third match between
the American and Australian tennis girls
in Melbourne was won by the Yankee-
ettes by 3 rubbers 8 sets 79 games to
3 rubbers 6 sets and 76 games.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Budge’s parents have
told interviewers that they have done all
they can to persuade their son to cash in
on his tennis ability. They point out
that the family is not well off, and that
any day such an accident as that motor
smash from which he came unscathed in
California may end the lad’s money-
making ability. Taking a line on
Vines and Perry it is estimated that
Budge would be worth £20,000 in a
couple of years if he turned professional,
and he could then settle down to a profes-
sion if he wished. A particularly sane
exposition of Budge’s status comes from
“Sports Illustrated,” an authoritative
Yankee sporting journal. This urges
Budge not to worry about selling him-
self to a professional syndicate since he
has already sold himself to the American
L.T.A. The difference is that whereas
he would get a big cash price from the
syndicate he gets nothing from the
L.T.A. but the glory.
Miscellaneous
Dead in Sydney, Dr. H. H. (“Bert”)
Bullmore, a Macquarie-street specialist,
who in the days of his youth was a
Rugby footballer of tonnage. A Queens-
lander, he learned the game at Ipswich
Grammar, and later played as a member
of Past Grammar. He figured as a
centre three-quarter for his State against
N.S.W. at Sydney in 1894, but dropped
out of the game next year after a
match in which the P.G.S. trounced the
N.S.W. team in Brisbane. Going to
Edinburgh for his medical studies he
found his way as a forward into the
Edinburgh University side, all the mem-
bers of which were capped for Scotland.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: The Kangaroos ended
their tour of the North of England when
the match against Hunslet club was can-
celled through bad weather. The last
match actually played was against
Broughton Rangers, a Manchester club,
which beat the tourists 13-0 in a heavy
fog. This made the figures for the tour
25 matches played, the Kangaroos win-
ning 13, losing 11 and drawing one.
Gates have shown a heavy falling off, and
the divvy for the players and the Aus-
tralian League may be the smallest on
record.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: The invasion of Aus-
tralia by Dominion athletes for the Em-
pire Games at Sydney in February is in
full swing. South Africans and
Rhodesians are already here. Afri-
kanders number 12: two cyclists, six
boxers and four swimmers—three of
them women. Also there are four ofli-
cials, which seems an intolerable lot of
sack to a mingy issue of bread. I. G.
Emery, an ex-Victorian who is secretary
to the Afrikander Olympic Committee,
manages. The team’s boxing adviser is
a Queenslander who has been in S.A.
since 1901.
The Rhodesians are six in number:
two athletes, two boxers and two swim-
mers —both girls, Valerie Aitken and Rita
Baker. Manager and captain is I. M.
Barratt, a pole-vaulter.
There was an unusual happening in
connection with the S.A. team. Chris
Nel, a not-chosen wrestler, stowed away.
He offered to work his passage, but his
mates raised the fare. The S.A. selec-
tors refused to allow him to join the
team, however, so Nel had to wait in
Fremantle for the first boat back to
South Africa while his friends came east-
ward.
The Trinidad team has sailed via
Panama, and is due by the Awatea on
January 29. It contains a hot-sprinting
proposition in Cumberbatch, who re-
cently won the West
Indies 100 and 220 cham-
pionships. in 9.6 sec. and
21.8 sec. res p e c tively.
Manager-trainer is M. E.
Joseph, secretary of the
Trinidad A.A.A.
The prize shipment as
far as numbers go seems
to be the Canadian con-
signment of 78, including
21 women and 17
officials. Of course, one
lady, sprint champion-
ette Montgomery, missed
her train and kept the
Aorangi waiting while
she flew from Winnipeg.
In addition to a horde
of Australian bowlers,
wood-rollers from M.L.,
South Africa, Rhodesia, England, Scot-
land, Wales, Ireland, Fiji and Canada are
with us or on the way. The South
Africans and Rhodesians (two) number
14. Two of the Afrikanders, Appleford
and Cooper, were over for the Mel-
bourne centenary bowling events in 1934.
Lastly, the British rifle team, though
not over specially for the Games, will
compete in the shooting section in
March, in addition to showing in the
various States. They landed in good
condition at Fremantle and are shoot-
ing their way east.
* * $
“Soor”: Dead in England, at 34,
Carclew, a Waler pony that was the
Bradman of pigsticking. Carclew was
owned by the C.O. 4th Hussars, and spent
an honored old age as a pensioner of the
regiment. The pony carried the winner
of the Kadir Cup, the blue ribbon of
pigsticking, to victory on four occa-
sions, three of them in succession, and
thus brought undying fame not only to
his rider but to the regiment. The 4th
is one of the cavalry formations listed
for mechanisation, and any pigsticking it
does in future will have to be on motor-
cycles.
* * * *
“Spare Knox”: Australia will be in-
vaded by a monstrous regiment of
women during the early half of 1938.
Five rowing girls and a cox from Eng-
land are to make their splash in the Aus-
tralian women’s championships. They
had hoped to compete in the Empire
Games, but there are no rowing events
for the sex in that show. From the
U.S.A. a women’s hockey team arrives
in April, and is to engage an Australian
side on April 23. The team will be about
six weeks in Australia, and will visit
N.S.W. country districts and perhaps
Melbourne.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Night Must Fall”
Robert Montgomery, Rosalind Russell.
Here is a film that can be recom-
mended without qualification. It has the
tense, gripping quality of great drama
superbly acted. It is in the class and
kind of “Petrified Forest.”
To see it after some such lauded pic-
ture as “Souls at Sea” should be to
appreciate the difference between merely
superior melodrama and that authentic
drama which ennobles the actor’s art,
and has been for centuries the true glory
of the stage.
Without heroics, without what are
called “spectacular” scenes —it is con-
ceived, directed and acted on a note of
understatement, if anything—it has an
emotional magnetism that takes hold on
you and makes you not a mere spec-
tator or one sitting back asking for en-
tertainment for your money, but one
involved and sharing in the action and
all the light and shade and inevitableness
of the drama’s movement.
Not having seen the stage original,
this film-taster doesn’t know how much
it has been departed from, but he sur-
mises that the departure would be ex-
tremely little. Once the camera goes
wandering through an ominously
grotesque, dripping wood at night—mag-
nificent photography, as is that of all the
film—but generally the film version is
acted out as the play could have been
acted on stage. It is nearly all indoors
and played by seldom more than three
people at a time.
It begins with murder done, but there
is no mystery about this as far as the
audience is concerned. Neither here nor
at any other point does the playwright
depend on false leads to sustain suspense.
The baby-faced young man who did
the murder comes and blarneys himself
a job at the house Where a girl he has
got into trouble is a slavey. The rest is
acted by the murderer, the spoilt old
woman who owns the place and gets
about in a wheel-chair, though there’s
nothing much wrong with her, and her
niece, who does some secretarial work
for her and who, while finding out that
the man is the murderer, is yet emotion-
ally attracted to him. Before the end,
the murderer has also done for the old
girl, and is about to murder the young
one when he’s interrupted through the
playwright’s one resort to fictional
devices.
Knowing all this in advance and other
parts of the narrative that could as easily
be related will make no difference to any-
one going along to view the film. Its
quality is in its study of the psycho-
logical character of a murderer, which
the dramatist represents as a cold ruth-
lessness sustained by a fatalistic conceit.
It is a rich part for a good actor. It
requires that the one playing it must
convey that in life he is really acting;
that he is in a false world of his own
constructing. He must ring just a shade
false to the audience, while still making
it feasible that, despite that falseness, he
could be accepted without suspicion by
all but one of the people into whose
hitherto starved lives he intrudes.
Montgomery does not once slip. He
sustains the representation with arrest-
ing originality, too, except that the man-
nerism of holding his arms stiffly seems
a copy from Bogart’s performance of
the Dillingerish shooter in “Petrified
Forest.” Apart from that one item he
is an original, all his gestures, his walk,
his inflections of voice, the cigarette in
the corner of his mouth, the way he
wears his clothes —everything in the
representation completely convinces.
Miss Russell manages an equally
memorable stretch of acting as the sex-
starved young woman with a touch of
mysticism in her make-up. It calls for
an even finer shade of subtlety than
Montgomery’s part. She has to make
her intuitive suspicions convincing and
also evoke sympathy for her attraction
to the murderer. She does it all most
effectively.
Support includes Dame May Whitty
in a sterling representation of the old
lady.
Others are more than efficient, except
for the detective, who seems a false
note, though his part is so minor that
that doesn’t really matter. The two
slaveys are just about perfectly cast and
act admirably.
Showing at Sydney Lyceum, the film
gives that theatre’s programmes for this
year something to live up to. Certainly
it is a welcome change from the Lyceum’s
recent dreary affairs.
“Wee Willie Winkie.”
Shirley Temple and Victor MacLaglen.
This f.a.q. cute-kid item at Sydney
Regent has little connection with Kip-
ling’s yarn save the title and the use of
Kipling’s name.
Willie, as far as this commentator can
recollect, was a freckled boy with a
perennially scratched face, which wouldn’t
suit Shirley a little bit. So the darling
wee tot is a girl.
She wheedles her way into the heart of
the old colonel (Aubrey C. Smith) a la
“The Kentucky Colonel,” and is rigged
out by an adoring sergeant-major (Vic.
MacLaglen) in a full suit of Highland
regimentals, including sporran. ’Twould
be a funny sort of Scot would put a
sporran on a lassie, but let it pass.
Dear wee Shirley drills with the regi-
ment (the British Army, you know, fairly
revels in such musicomedy touches).
An Afghan chieftain (Cesar Romero)
wanders through the fantasia. Shirley
Garbo, Chas. Boyer, Reginald Owen, in “Marie Walewska,” at Sydney St. James.
visits him in his mountain fastness, and
melts his feral heart, so that he ceases to
war upon the English, and is last seen
attending a pink tea or something in
cantonments.
Another attraction is a drummer boy
(Douglas Scott), of the Freddie Bartholo-
mew type. Romantic sentiment is pro-
vided by June Lang and Michael Whalen.
Shirley refrains from tap-dancing for
some unexplained reason, and bursts into
song only once, when Vic MacLaglen
lies a-dying. She quavers “Auld Lang
Syne” to orchestral accompaniment, and
if this scene doesn’t dampen handker-
chiefs this commentator will eat his.
“100 Men and a Girl”
Deanna Durbin.
This catchily-titled comedy with voice
and music at Sydney State also has in
it such people as Mischa Auer, Adolphe
Menjou, Leopold Stokowski and other
good ones, but it is the young girl’s film,
and certainly she is not hard to take.
Said to be only 14, she has an extra-
ordinary voice for her age. In this film
she sings three or four operatic arias
with almost unbelievable power. Also,
carrying the whole show, she proves her-
self a dandy little actress and as unspoilt
a youngster as the films hold outside the
blokes of “Our Gang.”
She already acts so well that, even if
her remarkable soprano doesn’t hold, she
should still do well enough to carry most
films. The voice would not have to swell
and improve very much for her to be a
world-beater.
Auer, Menjou, etc., manage well
enough, but they have comparatively
insignificant roles. Auer is especially
badly treated in an almost straight part
which gives his fine comedic talent
scarcely any scope. Menjou is better
served, as is Stokowski conducting a
splendid orchestra through some of the
more glorious patches of opera.
The story is a light affair about a
trombone-player and 99 other out-of-
work musicians who are at last made
famous as an orchestra through trom-
bone-player’s daughter’s earnest endea-
vors.
Very brisk in action, first-rate on the
musical side and with a special quality of
freshness, it makes most agreeable light
entertainment, and should be popular.
"The Perfect Specimen”
Errol Flynn, Joan Blondell.
Blessed are the simple of mind, for
they should enjoy this sentimental
comedy at Sydney Plaza.
Mr. Flynn has been brought up to
the apparent age of about 30 in a vast
house, set amidst a vast estate, sur-
rounded by iron-spike fences 20ft. or so
high, hung with enough warning-off
notices to do a zoo.
He’s ruled over by a despotic old lady
who aims at producing in him the perfect
male specimen and has on hand the
young woman with whom he will mate
when he attains to the requisite state of
perfection.
The standards of idealism being
American, a fortune also awaits Mr.
Flynn, and he spends his time doing
gymnastic exercises on the limb of a
tree and filling his mind and having it
filled with excerpts from encyclopaedias
and such idealistic working knowledge
as how to drive a motor-car and use his
fists.
The perfect specimen, in fact, can do
everything Mr. Flynn himself can per-
sonally do, and tags of information
about Chinese bulbs and suchlike evi-
dences of complete education mark him
just about perfection when one day Miss
Blondell drives her car through the pro-
tective fence to look him over.
Before she leaves Mr. Flynn has been
convinced that there’s something missing
from his life. That night, on her advice,
he reads Don Quixote, and next day he
sets out after her, takes her for an ex-
tensive car ride, spends the night with
her at a roadhouse —in separate rooms,
of course ; this is still a terrific sensation
of the flicks—has a fight or two between
bursts of reckless car-driving, and other-
wise fills in time while police, at the
behest of despotic old perfect-specimen
producer, scour the landscape trying to
bag him and the 25,000 dollars reward.
The last word in banality and arti-
ficiality on the sentimental side, it yet
makes quite good comedy through the
sparkling efforts of Miss Blondell as the
wicked influence from outside, May Rob-
son as the old dame and Eddie Horton
as old dame’s sec.
Flynn’s part is to stir feminine bosoms
with synthetic thrills. He’s billed in the
ads. as “the perfect answer to a maiden’s
prayer,” and his adorers should be grati-
fied by the number of mountainous close-
ups of his smiling features. Also, he acts
the romantic-hero stuff seriously enough
to be satisfying.
“Forty Naughty Girls.”
James Gleason and Zasu Pitts.
Save that the legs of forty chorines
are part of the scenery, the title has
nothing to do with the story, which is
a back-stage murder thriller with James
Gleason as Inspector Piper and Zasu
Pitts as Hildegarde Withers.
In earlier picturisations of this series
of detective yarns the wisecracking Helen
Broderick was a Hildegarde quite plaus-
ibly as shrewd as she was eccentric.
Miss Pitts gives a general impression of
amiable idiocy. She goes poking about
a theatre-prop, store in the dark, and of
course a figure in armor hits her with a
club.
Flashes of innocent, if ancient, humor
of this sort keeps holiday audiences
laughing at Sydney Regent.
“Sophie Lang Goes West”
Gertrude Michael and Lee Bowman.
Reformed jewel thieves, and some that
haven’t reformed (Buster Crabbe, who
becomes more criminal on each new
appearance, is in that category), abound
in this machine-made thriller.
C. Henry Gordon is a saturnine sultan,
doing his durndest to get a huge diamond
stolen so that he can claim insurance.
Of course there’s a duplicate, and the
characters spend their time, more or less
happily, pinching original and duplicate
impartially and planting them in flower-
pots, champagne ice-buckets and each
other’s pockets.
At the fadeout Lee Bowman (a
Georgeraftish newcomer) and the hard-
boiled Miss Michael are headed for
matrimony. At Sydney Civic.
T arzan.
To shoot holes in a Tarzan film is like
telling an eight-year-old there’s no
Father Christmas, but all the same the
current offering at Sydney Capitol falls
short of previous efforts. Plot is much
the same as usual. It transfers the ape-
man to Guatemala with a bunch of
treasure-hunters, and gives him room to
go trapezing through the trees, race with
crocodiles, tussle with maneaters and
slaughter anything up to 40 savages in
one go.
Herman Brix is an athlete, and makes
a fair figure of a man ; he can do most
of the Tarzan stunts, but he wasn’t cut
out for an actor, and makes a poor
showing after Weissmuller. Except for
the monkey, the rest of the cast is stilted
and doesn’t help very much.
Guatemalan jungle scenes are splendid,
and there are a few good shots of
monkeys. A tame monk, raises a couple
of laughs ; one with his investigations
of a woman’s make-up box and another
when he frightens six months’ growth out
of himself by turning off an electric
light.
For those who like Tarzan the show
Las its points, as was demonstrated by the
yelling and excitement of a theatreful of
youngsters, who didn’t and won’t give a
hoot what this Showman thinks or says,
provided they can see the apeman up
to his usual stunts.
“The Lady Fights Back”
Support at Sydney State, this length of
sentimentality is all about Kent Taylor
as a young engineer who could win prizes
as a first-class prig unless he had the bad
luck to come ut> against someone like the
younger Fairbanks.
Kent goes up a river in U.S.A. to dam
the stream for a power company and
encounters there a girl who runs a fish-
ing club for N’Yark millionaires and the
like and who doesn’t want her beloved
salmon snubbed by a wall of concrete.
Man and girl clash, of course, the film
differing slightly from most others of its


p M 0 T T ' S
LI V | N G
P I C T U R
i
HI
Wr!
mm
m
ill
V»V I #
vta°22
Beryl Mavis
Cummins.
Age
1 3 months.
Ur ing t L
pli °tograil* pas t half
reared B of * a// Wun, n
4r no[t . s fr °«. the g*. Vlgoro ° :; r 40,000
*«£z a•»"
*°«**vg ,
147 htor ‘l>e ad s
Str eet>
He dfer n
a BedJ 3 Se * din S th e nl
t* ‘»°mhs rr °Z r °o' U “ hi ab y sin
°°r n 04/ Uj r lSc ui ts p . er o n
e h °s th, Cff " *!*?' ■%. /? he
V/,/,
.
y ° Ur * *T hfu “y.
' Ciw *'v* r .
kind only in that the man gets both his
way and the girl. He does ttois by means
that would have him blackballed from a
gangsters’ club on the ground of rotten
sportsmanship, but that seems to make
him all the more acceptable.
The impossible business is clumsily
directed, but some spots of humor relieve
the slush.
Lyceum Shorts .
Prelude to “Night Must Fall” the
Lyceum has a mixture of newsreel, “Our
Gang,” colored cartoon and, a bit longer
than these, an affair entitled “Something
Soon.”
This last film is billed as a romance.
If that’s how it’s meant to be taken it
is one of the most childish on record.
Taken as a burlesque on such produc-
tions, it is an uproar from start to finish.
It will probably win both ways ; to
the sloppy it will be beautiful slops, while
others will find it tasty as a nice bit of
ridicule.
The “Our Gang” brevity doesn’t give
these excellent youngsters scope to show
their best, but even their tenth-best would
be a thousand times better than the per-
formances of the simpering, smirking
little beasties of most cheild fillums.
Australian Newsreels.
Loud applause for one of these—a
Movietone effort —seen at Sydney Plaza.
Its subject-matter was only f.a.q., except
for an interesting, though far too re-
stricted, shot at piecing together the out-
standing events of 1937. More compre-
hensively done, that would make a top-
notch annual film.
The applause is intended for the com-
mentator, who did his job interestingly
throughout without resort to the forced
wisecracks and poor puns—the strained
effort to be funny at all cost —through
which so many newsreels become a
painful earache.
This Movietone chap just commented
in a direct, entertaining manner, and
thereby lifted merely ordinary material
into as good newsreel as we get. An
agreeable change from the smart Alick
stuff. May his tribe increase.
“Missing Witnesses,” support at Sydney
Plaza, is something present film-taster
had not thought possible—an American
crime picture that touches the limits of
tediousness. It is even dull in dialogue,
which is an unusual complaint to have
to make about an American picture, and
otherwise it is unspeakably uninteresting
—a long-drawn-out business of trying
to induce victimised tradesmen to
testify against gangsters. Hang it all,
there isn’t even a decent bit of rut-tut-
tut-tut-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-tut in it.
“Guardians of the Air,” at Sydney
Capitol, is a dust-up between an Ameri-
can border patrol and a bunch of crooks
who smuggle aliens across the Mexican
border. Charles Quigley, as a young
gent, of the patrol, turns pilot of the
“Honeymoon Express,” an aerial
adjunct to a Gretna Green idea, and
mixes in with the smugglers and Rosa-
lind Keith, reporter. Gent, is kidnapped,
but goil helps him escape, and both are
rescued by the patrol. With easy, breezy
acting it’s a slickly-done film, and makes
good average entertainment.
“Okay for Sound!”
There’s certainly plenty of noise in
“Okay for Sound,” officially described
as a revue, which the Firm has launched
at Melbourne Majesty’s.
As the programme has it, the show is
a Musical Spectacle of Filmland and the
Making of a Movie. To permit introduc-
tion of as varied a series of acts as
Melbourne has blinked at in one night,
the supposed movie enjoys the all-
embracing name, “The International
Revue.” This legalises anything, and,
again according to the book of words,
there are 120 artists and 23 “shots” to
see before you can go home.
There’s a lot of really good fun and
some striking acts. Nirska introduces her
lovely “Wings of Love” butterfly dance,
and its personally-designed scenery, cos-
tumes and lighting effects—mostly light-
ing effects —help a clever artist through
an interlude of quivering beauty; a
darkened stage, a mirror-like floor and
great fluttering wings reflecting every
color of the rainbow.
Then there’s the chap with the chew-
ing-gum feet, James Evans, who juggles
cylinders, chairs, bedsteads and anything
else round the place with his uncanny
tootsies. In acrobatics, the Demnati
troupe of Arabs turn on the dinkum
thing.
A Portsmouth Navy Week spectacle
and a stage-skating scene in colorful cos-
tumes and including four Shetland
ponies are among the best of the more
heavily-populated acts. The ballet girls
work hard all night, and they work well.
The three comedy teams required to
help out the scenery-shifters are good in
parts; but “Okay for Sound” must have
had a long run at the London Palladium
to have allowed so many of its gags to
get to Australia before it.
The Montague Show.
Something after the lines of the Marcus
Show—a hurly-burly of songandance, in-
terspersed with fair to good vaudeville
turns and comedy playlets. Entertain-
ing in its way ; but the Marcus Show left
all successors something to live up to in
speed, humor and all-round brightness.
The Marcus crowd, however, had the
advantage of the comparatively big stage
at the Royal; the Montagues are at the
Mayfair, which used to be Fullers’ before
being turned into a film house. More
populous than the Marcus show, the
Montagues seem far too crowded on this
Mayfair acreage to give of their best.
For the vaudeville items it’s well enough,
but it makes the spectacular efforts—
like the Coronation scene —look hope-
lessly jumbled.
The show is at its strongest in dancing,
especially that of the Madame Damora
troupe, with some good harmonising by
a bright quartet of blokes calling them-
selves the Blenders helping make it agree-
able to the ear.
Humor is largely raw and suggestive ;
present showman prefers it not so crude,
or at least with an occasional sparkle of
wit among the coarseness. That may be
only a matter of personal taste, but on
the night the show opened comedian
Doonan had the crowd most completely
with him in a turn that was almost singu-
larly “clean” —a political address turned
into a monologue.
Until that happened along the show
had been running for getting on an hour
without a single joke not mostly dirt —
mere unimproved variations on private-
circulation stories, and not even recent
ones.
Another form of stickiness was men
repeatedly mugging each other.
In favor of the comedy side and the
show altogether it should be said that
Doonan and the rest of them worked
like Britons to make the thing go.
Doonan has-a good offsider in Jimmy
Jewell, and between them they did some
bright enough stuff in those comedy
playlet affairs that end with a snap and
a blackout.
A really good item of the show —it
would be a good item in any show what-
ever —is the burlesque dancing of the
£>awn Sisters, a brace of authentic
comediennes, warranted to make a
golfer laugh throughout a wet week-
end.
Regent, Midnight.
Confirming present chronic deadhead’s
idea that the Montague show would be
twice the show it is if it had twice the
stage it has at the Mayfair, a couple of
its good turns came on and made merry
at a New Year’s Eve midnight-and-after
show at Sydney Regent.
Both turns — the extremely clever
Dawn Sisters and the pretty good har-
monising Blenders quartet — looked in-
comparably better in this roomy setting.
In such space the populous scenes and
exotic dressing of the show as a whole
would have had a chance to override the
crude humor. The spectacle not being
worth a hoot as presented at the May-
fair, the crudeness of the humor gets
such an overwhelming emphasis as to
leave the false impression that the whole
show was based on the idea that the way
to succeed with a stage offering in
Sydney is to give ’em dirt. In this show-
man’s idea that impression wouldn’t
arise if the stage permitted the other
things in the revue to so override the
“humor” that it would be a merely inci-
dental instead of a dominant feature.
For the rest, the Regent’s midnighting
was Mickey Mouse and a delicious
comedy called “The Awful Truth,”
which won’t be in circulation for a week
or two yet and will be reviewed here
later.


Overseas visitors to
LONDON
desiring hotel accommodation
are recommended to stay at
HOTEL
GREAT CENTRAL
Marylebone Road, N.W. 1
Cables: Centellare, London
or
HOTEL RUSSELL
Russell Square, W.C.I
These hotels have a high reputa-
tion for comfort and efficiency and
meet all ihodern requirements.
Bedroom, bath and breakfast
from 11/- per day.
Inclusive terms from 21/- per day.
Adjoining each hotel is an Under-
ground Station that links up with
all parts of London.
Tariffs can be had on application to:
“The Bulletin,” Box 252188,
Sydney.
j
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling last Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you your own transport, or did
you catch a taxi on New Year’s Eve?
In any case you were among the lucky.
Merrymakers who set out early in the
evening to speed 1937 and welcome
1938 were not nearly so blithe, though
more full of spirit, about travelling long
stretches of the homeward track per
boot. Still, say what you like, it was a
good night. Every dancing floor in the
city ran hot. Balloons exploded, toy
whistles blew loudly. Normally sedate
citizens brushed one another’s bald pates
with ticklers. The Yacht Club at Kirribilli
seemed to float on a sea of light; the
Show Boat moved goldenly about the
harbor ways. From Luna Park rockets
cascaded into the first moments of 1938.
The Music Revel at Hordern Brothers’
knew some glad, mad moments.
Revellers from the Imperial Service Club
drove home by the light of dawn. The
Legacy Club’s welcome to 1938 over-
topped expectations. So 1937 took off his
worn-out shoes, let his alarm clock run
down and went to sleep. Time bothers
him no longer. Bright-eyed and alert
1938 leads on! Here’s fun to you, and
fun to me!
With the dawn of the New Year the
wives of Dr. Earle Page and Dr. Norman
Paul have become Ladies and their hus-
bands Knights. The Red Cross, N.C.W.
and Y.W.C.A. are three movements
which engage the wife of the leader of
the Country party. The gardens of the
Page home at Grafton also take up much
of her time. Another doctor’s wife,
Mrs. W. H. Read, of Wahroonga, can
now pin a well-deserved 0.8. E. on her
blouse. She is president of the Rachel
Forster Hospital, has held the presidency
of the Women’s Club and is president of
the North Shore Auxiliary for Crippled
Children, besides being very active on a
number of other committees. Every-
body knows Mrs. F. J. Davy’s bright
smile. N.S.W. Women’s Hockey Asso-
ciation is her special sphere. She has
been secretary for love- of the game for
21 years, and has managed every touring
hockey team. And there never has been
one unpleasant incident on these over-
seas tours. From about nine o’clock on
New Year’s Eve, when the news began
to leak out, the Davys’ telephone rang
incessantly with congratulations on Mrs.
Davy’s M.B.E. New Year’s Day brought
telegrams by the bushel. Former
Mayoress Hagon is among the M.B.E.
recipients. She was a great war worker,
and still is active for soldier causes. The
Legacy Club knew her kindly presi-
dency for two years.
Richard Lygon’s coming-of-age was a
very swagger affair even for London.
Earl Beauchamp and his daughters, the
Ladies Lygon, gave a dinner dance in
honor of the occasion. Or, rather, there
were two dinner parties, for one was
hostessed by Lady Sibell Lygon at the
Ritz. There were 40 at this, all seated
at a great round table. At the family’s
house in Belgrave Square Earl
Beauchamp and Lady Dorothy Lygon
entertained 50 people, seated at two
tables. Earl Beauchamp sat at the head
of one, and at its end sat Lady Dorothy
Lygon. Lady Mary Lygon was at the
head of the other table, and opposite was
the cause of the celebrations. His birth-
day actually fell on Christmas Day, 11
days or so after the city “do.”
Over 400 came to the dance, and the
guests’ names sound like pages of
Debrett. Among the glitter were the Earl
and Countess of Feversham, the Earl and
Countess of Antrim, Lord and Lady
Stanley, Lord and Lady Oranmore, Lady
Warrender, the Countess of Rosse, Lady
Dufferin. Lord and Lady Elmley were
others who gave dinner parties preceding
the dance. Among the guests were Ran-
dolph Churchill, Lady Betty Baldwin,
Ruth Chatterton and David Smyth, who
was so popular in Sydney. With the white
lilac and yellow chrysanthemums of the
ballroom were delicate trails of gum tips,
and mingled with the jonquils and yellow
daisies in the dining-room were sprays of
wattle. All the rooms were lit by candle-
light. The real coming-of-age party was
a huge affair at Madresfield on Christmas
Day.
The old woman who lived in a shoe
might have taken a lesson from Helen
Mann, the companionable lady under
whose rule life moves brightly and sweetly
at the King George V. Playground. This
is set in an arid enough district close
by Sydney’s Bridge, on the city side, and
not by the dozen but by the hundred the
young things of the neighborhood flow
in and out its gates. Here are welcomes
for all, and, better still, something to do.
There are ball games, and, if you don’t
know how to play them, somebody to
show you. There are swings and climb-
ing rings, seesaws and slides for the
small ones ; folk-dancing, embroidery and
all sorts of handicrafts for the older
ones. On Saturdays and Sundays and
all through the holidays there’s a con-
stant programme of games and enter-
tainment.
Sometimes Grace Stafford brings down
a company of child players, and then the
courtyard at the back of the recreation
hall becomes a theatre. This is usually
brisk with ball games, for the long wall
of the bridge approach rears above it like
a high rampart. Not only the children,
but the mothers come and make the
place a sort of open-air club. Along the
pathway outside the council has laid out
flower borders. Never once has there
been a complaint about a child plucking
or damaging flower or leaf. Oh, yes,
Miss Mann and her companions could
teach the old woman something. They
don’t have to whip the youngsters and
send them to bed. Their children are
good because they are active and happy.
Photograph from Peter Pan.
Another note about the coming of age
at Madresfield Court tells of a silver box
(lovely example of the silversmith’s art)
being presented to Richard (Dickie to his
family) Lygon by the Mayor and Cor-
poration of Worcester. The lawns rang
with a meet of the Croome hounds, which
was a rally of the county families. A
dance for the household and an evening
cinema show were followed by a supper
for Dickie’s sporting friends. A gigantic
Christmas-tree was the centre of a gather-
ing of the estate and the household. After
tea Lord Beauchamp handed each of
nearly 200 guests a present.
It’s too bad that just as everybody had
mastered the rumba it should have to be
thrown into the discard with all other
dance-steps. The Big Apple is the only
thing being done in America, according
to Annette Kellerman’s latest letter. She
says it is the dance craze of a decade.
Annette was in Chicago when old friends
Flo Reed and Laurence Grossmith
opened in the naughtycal play “Yes, My
Darling Daughter! ” The three had a get-
together, and the human mermaid made
the acquaintance of Sydney’s Agnes
Doyle, who takes the part of the sophis-
ticated cheild in the play. Agnes has
taken the critics by storm, and all pre-
dict a brilliant future for her. Annette
cannot get to Australia until May, owing
to heavy bookings in Florida. Miami
will see her all the U.S.A. winter. Before
rushing off to the millionaires’ playground
Annette was lecturing at the St. Louis
and Minneapolis Unis. She had just
heard and met Sergei Rachmaninoff. But
the fiery Russian of her imaginings did
not materialise. He wore a pale brow
and a melancholy air, but magnificent
was the word for his playing.
Christmas letters from Marjorie Ham-
bridge tell of the safe arrival in England
of mother and father. The whole family
was together for Christmas at Lawrence
Hall, Ham Common, which was at one
time a girls’ school to which royalty itself
went. In the New Year Mr. and Mrs.
Hambridge go to Eastbourne, and Mar-
jorie settles down to still more hard
work in her studio flat in Wigmore-street.
She had been practising six hours a day
in preparation for some lessons from
Sydney’s old concert friend Szigeti, who
has been giving a series of recitals in
London. In the spring Marjorie goes to
Paris to study with this master. Rhodes
Hambridge is excited over coming to his
home town with the Empire Games eight.
He will row for England in the regatta
on the Nepean in February, and is look-
ing forward to joining up with his old
friends from The King’s School.
The organ at Manly kirk will swell
out to-night rich and sonorous in Guil-
mant’s Sonata in C Minor and numbers
by Widor, Weber, Handel and Bach.
Alice Bryant will be the organist and
Marie Brown the singer providing this
musicianly programme. The church debt
will be lightened thereby.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite is very
concerned over the Montague show at
the Mayfair. She’s surprised S’Africa
allowed it; and, anyway, hasn’t the coun-
try any Bird Lovers’ Society? Why, after
seeing the miles of gorgeous plumes
trailed by the Montague girls she reckons
that every ostrich in South Africa must
be bald. She is very excited over the
living chess. She says that if flesh-and-
blood players were one half so smart in
their moves as the chess men and ladies
the game would be almost as active as
cricket. She says that she supposes it’s
because we live in a new country that
all jokes are so old before they reach us.
Not only with the Montague, but with the
Marcus and nearly every show she goes
to, she has heard lots of their wisecracks
months before. She wants the autograph
of the man whose job is that of always
being sacked to placate irate customers,
and she wouldn’t mind a few of those
diamente butterflies that caught the float-
ing chiffon sleeves pf Mrs. Sep Levy’s
black frock on the opening night, or a
constant supply of sprays of gardenias
such as those that nestled soothly on
Mrs. E. J. Tait’s black laces.
This is the very latest picture (by Peter
Pan) of Mary Whidbourne, who is still
smiling because she is back in our sunny
days and ways. Mary originally came to
Australia for a year or two to teach
eurhythmies at Frensham. She stayed
four. Went back to England, interlarded
her work with trips to Switzerland ; but
still craved for Sydney. Her studio in
Rowe-street is to ring with a house-
warming before the end of the month.
It’s not often the health-builders in
Macquarie-street have such a legacy be-
stowed on them as fell to the lot of Dr.
Oscar Diethelm. Balanced against that,
however, is the loss of his friend, W. A.
Parker. Mr. Parker, a retired solicitor,
one time of Mosman, left his estate of
£38,284 to Dr. Diethelm subject to pay-
ment by him of three or four legacies.
Mr. Parker was a bachelor.
The Queen’s Club is housing one of
the first distinguished visitors to our
150th anniversary. She is the alert Dame
Maria Ogilvie Gordon, and she is famed
as a scientist and social worker. She is
a keen supporter of the work of the
N.C.W., and particularly lauds its work
for peace. Before the illuminations are
touched off and the bunting unfurled,
Dame Maria will be the guest of Lady
Gowrie at Canberra. She is anxious to
see every phase of Australian life, and
she will glimpse station homes under the
best conditions when she visits Dalkeith,
the Frederick McMasters’ Cassilis hold-
ing.
Weather or no weather Rushcutters
Bay courts were the Mecca of tennis fans.
They positively burned with their ardor
on sunshot days. The form of Cramm
and Budge and Crawford was as keenly
and impersonally noted as that of
the racers at Randwick. The game's
the thing. Naturally the president of the
Lawn Tennis Association, Bryan Fuller,
and Mrs. Fuller were always on the spot.
Mrs. Fuller has displayed quite a nice
line in spectator sports attire during the
season. When she entertained the
Consul-General for Germany and Mrs.
Asmis at the Australia-Germany games,
Mrs. Fuller’s outfit was coolly blue and
white. Her white hat was upturned of
brim, but, since the day was cloudy, that
did not matter. Mrs. Asmis watched
the play in the correctness of an Assam
silk suit. The Frederick McMaster lady
brought red and blue to the group
frocking.
White rooftrees sprang up overnight,
like gay mushrooms, and dotted the
landscape and sea line with canvas cities
for the duration of the Christmas holi-
days. Record crowds took the road with
their trailers and their tents at the New
Year. As Peter Dawson sings, everyone
seemed to be travelling the road “Who
Cares?” Nearly 36,000 vehicles passed
over the George’s River bridge alone
during the Christmas week-end. Some
ambitious campers got within coo-ee of
the borders of other States. Canberra,
as well as every mountain resort, was
bursting with humans all intent on ac-
quiring sun-tan and lungfuls of sea or
mountain air. Probably another year or
so will see this State rolling and bowling
with as many caravaners as California.
After a few hours’ rest to restore the
tissues enthusiasts went either to the
Highland sports or to the races. Rand-
wick was in brightest holiday mood.
Frocks were light and white, shoes were
mostly gay little sandals. Mrs. Mal-
colm Mackellar achieved distinction as
well as coolness in her suit of Assam silk
and her rose-wreathed hat. A wide rustic
straw hat and white frocking kept Philippa
Stephen cool. Black-and-white was
Barbara Knox’s choice. Randwick itself
has never looked lovelier. Bright sward
and brilliant flowers were spread be-
neath a sky of softest blue. Mrs. Alan
McGregor’s white suit with its blue
stripes and her big white hat fitted neatly
into the landscape. Flowered white
coolness was worn by the McKelvey
lady, and Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones was
another attractive figure in navy and
white. Mrs. D. Clayton also proved
that blue and white were the right com-
bination for a hot day.
Mrs. Sarah Thomas, of Burwood,
reached a hale and hearty hundredth
birthday last week. "She attends to her
own household shopping every day, and
every Sunday walks to and from church.
She is Premier Stevens’s oldest constitu-
ent, so he sent her an embroidered
cushion. Burwood Methodist Church
congratulated its oldest attendant at a
party in the church hall. At the cutting of
the cake there were four generations of
the Thomas family. The youngest was a
great-granddaughter aged nine. The cen-
tenarian arrived in Australia in 1857 and
for some time was at Moonta (S.A.).
Then she followed the gold trail to Vic.,
and later to N.S.W.
Latest word from Kathleen Collins, one
of artist Albert Collins’s daughters, is that
she is enjoying quite a good job with
Askew and Younge, who are among
London’s big advertising firms. Kath-
leen is doing layout work, which in
countries other than Australia is mostly
done by men. She has a flat which she
shares with Patricia Cole. Patricia was
one of the Independent group, and her
parts were nearly always comedy. You’ll
remember her as the telephone switch-
girl in “Counsellor at Law.” Kathleen
has had a glorious tour of the Rhine
under the banner of the Workers’ Travel
Association. These tours are done at a
remarkably cheap rate. The Sydney girl
was interested in some of the reconstruc-
tion work done on centuries-old build-
ings. She says her German was not up
to reading the brass plates, but she
thought it was done in the name of the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Castles. Patricia has had a job in Aus-
tralia House, also a jaunt to Geneva as
secretary to some political bigwig.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY
BULLETIN BUILDINGS,
252 George Street, Sydney
(Near Bridge Street).
The leading Exhibition of
Australian Art—latest works
by the most prominent
Australian Artists always on
view and for sale.
OPEN DAILY,
ADMISSION FREE.
Telephone: 87971.
The Kieliarrison Chain Hotel
ĵ
j
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
Melbourne
Chatter
The New Year had a noisy welcome in
Melbourne —crowds in the streets, hun-
dreds packed round the Elizabeth-street
post office waiting for the midnight
chimes; the bells of St. Paul’s ringing
over the town from the time that audi-
ences started to stream out of theatres
and picture shows. At St. Kilda a multi-
tude took the opportunity of a warm
night to do their serenading of 1938
along the waterfront.
Among private festivities was a late-
afternoon affair given by Mrs. Harold
Clapp, who leaves for the U.S.A. this
week in the Mariposa (the Commissioner
of Railways is accompanying his wife as
far as M.L.). This party was large and
lavish and enlivened by the real thing
in Scottish pipers, who, with their pipes,
were collected impromptu by some of
the guests in the spirit of goodwill to all
men.
0
The Fred Raes’ New Year party took
place at their home in the bushy pre-
cincts of the Botanic Gardens. Among
the. guests were the Norman McKenzies,
the Basil Buller Murphys, the Esmond
Downeys, Mrs. Downey wearing a pat-
terned gown with a background of black
satin, and the John McCauleys, who
are being transferred from headquarters
to Laverton early in the new year. The
Bill Davies and Charles Nightingall
couples also shared in the celebrations —
the menfolk of this foursome are by
now in the midst of a fishing holiday at
Jamieson. They took neither collars
nor ties with them, but had a lot of fun
buying fishing tackle and trooper helmets
and hopefully coddling tins of wriggly
worms in Jheir respective back gardens.
Waders are not included. Mr. Nightin-
gall says he refuses to walk upstream for
any fish.
Down along the Ocean Highway holi-
day weather was not always kind to
swimmers, who on several mornings dived
out of a half-gale into an icy wave and
were pleased if on returning from their
swim there was a cosy fire to take the
chill out of the air. At Anglesea the
Stanley Macmillans, of Inverleigh, are
settled in their roomy house, where they
occasionally have 20 people for meals.
As well as various cars parked up their
drive their well-known truck is often
requisitioned for visits to the beach, the
store or the milkman. Among their
guests for the holidays were Betty Par-
rington and the Frank Majors, a couple
who are making a radical change in their
summer customs. It’s the first time in a
decade that they haven’t stayed at the
Anglesea Hotel. Jervis Belcher, of Gee-
long, who was made welcome at the Mac-
millan stronghold when he arrived unex-
pectedly one night, slept' contentedly on
the only mattress available, though it
would have been better suited to the size
of a child of six or thereabouts.
The folk from Anglesea often meet the
Lorne people on the links at Eastern
View, where it’s only those in very good
nick who can climb the hill at the fifth
hole without getting puffed ; or they meet
at Airey’s Inlet, where perfect strangers
have been known to play draughts with
cakes of soap on the bathroom floor;
or they’ run up against one another as
far afield as Torquay, where the pub
at this time of year is likely to produce
crayfish suppers gratis, and where once
upon a time a young woman from Mel-
bourne drank beer out of a liqueur glass,
for she had only a halfpenny left in her
purse and that was the barman’s ration.
During the holidays Gerald Haynes
sailed his 18-footer Wanderer down to
Geelong with supercargo lan Turner, but
without Doug Sharp, an old-established
member of the crew. At Geelong Gerald
and lan picked up a car, drove to Angle-
sea, where they arrived round about 1
a.m. with two enormous crayfish which
they persuaded some friends to share.
Among others who spent part of the
holidays in the same seaside locality were
the Dick Clarks, Dick receiving sympathy
for his sprained ankle, which improved
rapidly in the salt water, and Mrs. Dick
wearing attractive sports ensembles of
shirts with shorts or slacks. Theo Tucker
called in on the way home after he’d
been washed out of his tent and blow-
up rubber mattress in a sudden rain-
storm.
Other visitors included Nancy Webb,
with black slacks and black-and-
white-striped blouse as part of her beach
wardrobe, and Peggy and Clive Speeding,
poor Peggy almost a cot case in the early
tomato-sauce colored stages of sunburn.
Clive drove down in his well-known truck,
which can carry a dozen people as com-
fortably as it transports livestock at home
on the farm. Once this famous vehicle
collected a puncture while carrying two
enormous champion pigs, and there was
consternation at Ringwood, for no one
could jack up so many pounds of bacon.
Portsea and Sorrento were more for-
tunate than most places in the weather
for the earlier part of the holidays. On
several days more children than usual
were seen on the Back Beach. Among
those noticed in the vicinity of the Pier
were the Keith Halleys, who have a
house near by; the Keith Allens, who
are at the Nepean Hotel; Mrs. Fred
Dennett', who enjoys aquaplaning in her
sunburst-yellow suit; Ken Moore, who
is with his family in their house on the
Back Beach road ; the Neuendorf twins
and their sister, Mrs. G. Austin. On the
familiar ground of Frankston are Dr.
and Mrs. John Kennedy, of South Yarra,
and their family, Mrs. Kennedy wear-
ing neatly-tailored linen frocks, Pat in
shirts and shorts and the younger children
in a variety of playsuits.
Broothorn pictures here Dot Stevenson,
who with Thelma Coyne represented Aus-
tralia in the women’s Test matches against
the U.S.A. Miss Stevenson’s form at
present is such that critics consider her
well in the running for selection in the
women’s team to be sent abroad in
March. She is the fourth-youngest among
the 10 prospective candidates, has the
tournament temperament and is very
quick on her feet. Incidentally, she
always looks very attractive on the court.
The Mariposa’s passenger list this
week includes the names of Mrs. Harold
Clapp, Dr. Emma Carr, on her way back
to America after visiting her sister, Miss
G. Carr, on loan to Melbourne’s
Y.W.C.A., and Jessie Brookes, who con-
tinues studying social service in the
U.S.A. Jessie, who has an arts degree,
has been interested in this type of work
for some time. Other passengers will be
Professor and Mrs. Bernard Heinze, who
find it hard to part with their young
family, even though the children are
in the competent care of Mrs. Heinze’s
sister, Mrs. Ray Connelly, who has a
home with a big garden in Como-avenue.
Schedule for the Heinzes’ trip abroad
is not cut-and-dried, but is certain to in-
clude a stay in the U.S.A. and visits to
most of the important musical centres of
Europe, meetings with famous musicians
and possibly, unless they are reclusing
in some impassable wilderness, discus-
sions and cups of tea with the Percy
Graingers. Professor Heinze, who is
Ormond Professor at the Uni. Con. and
conductor of the Symphony Orchestra,
also a talented violinist, was given a
farewell dinner by members of the or-
chestra. His bon-voyage present from
them was neither suitcase nor travelling
rug, but a pair of Chinese vases, for the
collection of Oriental antiques is one of
his hobbies.
Lewis Lewis and his fair-haired bride
will reach Melbourne shortly in the Largs
Bay to pay a visit to Lewis’s parents, the
Ben Lewises of Sandringham where
doubtless many family friends will be
introduced to Marya. The couple are
accompanied by a wedding present in
the shape of a Cairns terrier puppy of
very blue blood, who will come out of
quarantine soon after Marya is settled
in her new home at Port Pirie (S.A.).
On shipboard the honeymooners wit-
nessed an exciting incident in the Bay
of Biscay when their ship sighted a sea-
plane bobbing about on the waves after
having made a forced landing. The
’plane was abandoned, and the crew,
who turned out to be Franco’s men,
were rescued and put ashore at Gib-
raltar. ,
Many friends regret the sudden death
last week of Matron Briggs, of the
R.V.1.8. Mrs. Briggs, who was trained
at Royal Melbourne, was very popular
with both young and old, and was known
to thousands of people, for she had at
various times lectured to some 180 auxil-
iaries. During the 17 years she was
matron at the institute there were no
very serious cases of illness among the
children under her care.
In the Broothorn portrait is Mrs. W.
H. Gallaher, by birth and parentage a
Russian, by marriage and naturalisation
an American. Mrs. Gallaher is at
present staying at Chevron, awaiting the
return from New Guinea of her husband,
a geologist in the Vacuum Oil Co., who
has recently flown many thousands of
miles in the Mandated Territory in con-
nection with his work. As he is particu-
larly interested in tennis Mr. Gallaher
is at the moment probably wishing that
he could get out and push the old Mon-
toro so that he’d get to Melbourne in time
to see Cramm and Henkel in action at
Kooyong at the end of this week.
To Mrs. Gallaher her journey out of
Russia is a bad dream of the past,
achieved by luck, help for herself and
friends from a nephew of the White
Russian General Wrangel and by two
months of travel in a crowded truck. It
was in Constantinople that she met and
became engaged to Mr. Gallaher, after-
wards going to the U.S.A. to marry him.
When he was asked to go to South
America, a place of stringent and fussy
passport regulations, Mrs. Gallaher
applied for American citizenship and
passed her test in English without much
trouble.
While in Bolivia the couple found
their mutual sense of humor a great
help, for there were few comforts
in steamy jungles filled with fighting
insects, rivers alive with crocodiles, long
journeys on mules, on foot or by canoe.
Since then they have lived in many
countries. They come to Australia after
several years in Batavia and Palembang
(Sumatra), and will probably be off to
California at the end of January. Both
are good linguists, and when together
they usually speak French. Mr. Gal-
laher’s Russian is fluent enough, but his
wife can never resist laughing at his
accent. Their favorite sports are golf
and tennis, and they are both keen about
contract bridge.
Australians will like the South Afri-
cans and Rhodesians who arrived in
Sydney last week for the Empire Games.
Chaperon of the women’s teams, Mrs.
E. McDonald Clark, originally an Aus-
tralian, was a war nurse, and made a
previous trip to this country in the As-
canius, when she was demobbed after
the Armistice. She was here again six
years ago with her son. A memory
which she means to revive during, her
visit is watching a sunset on the
Hawkesbury River. Mrs. Clark talks in
thousands of miles, so great are distances
in South Africa. Chaperoning a girls’
team last year, she and the competitors
travelled 5000 miles and made a detour
through the interesting National Park
game reserve.
Javelin - thrower Tony Robertson
(otherwise Antonia Heloise) travels 260
miles from her home on a lonely farm
to Port Elizabeth to take part in com-
petitions. Until recently Tony, who is
21, had no training, but copied the style
of the natives, throwing spears into
lucerne patches.
Carla Gerke, who was born in Am-
sterdam and has lived in Pretoria for 10
years, is a breaststroke champion and a
dress-designer. She designed all and
made most of the costumes worn by her
team-mates for the fancy-dress ball on
board the ship. Among the men com-
petitors Eddie Thacker, high-jumper,
is also a champion shot. At Luna Park,
on the night that the team had passes
until 10 o’clock, Eddie astonished by-
standers by potting 12 ducks with 12
bullets.
In Norway motorists are temperate.
Any person who imbibes at a party
either walks home or gets someone to
drive him, for, if involved in an acci-
dent, a blood test is immediately taken,
and if it spells alcohol the culprit, no
matter what his position is, immediately
goes to gaol for a fortnight. When
people disappear suddenly without ex-
planation they usually turn out to be
behind a padlock. The E. A. Alstergren
couple (Mr. Alstergren is a Norwegian),
who have just returned from a year
abroad, most of which they spent in
Norway, think the alcohol tests are an
excellent idea in a country where the
roads are so perilous and the motorists
so rash.
The Alstergrens’car, which they shipped
from Australia and have brought back
with them, stood up nobly to blizzards
and snowstorms. Once in the country-
side near Flekkefjord (about a day’s
journey south of Oslo) the travellers lost
their way and had to back down a hill
for several miles in a snowstorm. Mrs.
Alstergren felt her hair get stiff with
icicles, for she had to put her head out
of the window and direct her husband.
She kept her fingers from freezing with
an heirloom, a pair of gloves 200 years
old, given her by her mother-in-law.
She had not expected to put the gloves
to such urgent use. The couple even-
tually abandoned their car and took
refuge in a house, where they were
treated with exceptional hospitality while
snowed-in for two days and nights. The
roads being impassable, their car was
finally sent home by train.
Mrs. Alstergren found that travelling
with five children was not nearly as
worrying as it sounds. The four eldest
went to school in Flekkefjord for several
months, and their education cost nothing,
for schools and universities are free in
Norway. Signe, aged twelve, was one of
the interpreters at a rally of 17,000 Girl
Guides at Mandal, where eleven different
nations were represented. Mrs. Alster-
gren knew little Norwegian before she
went away, but now, like the children,
she speaks fluently.
(i Continued on page 32.)


-v
When
Woman
tells you:
Well,
worth
that perhaps she
should not boast,
but her teeth are
very white,
and she has used
nothing but
Calvert’s since she
was twelve,
don’t you think it is
trying for your teeth i
tug
yA
Legal Notices
Frederick Vincent Angell.
PURSUANT to an order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice in Eng-
land dated 15th November 1937 and made in
an action in the Matter of the trusts of the
Will and Codicil of Nathan David Angell
deceased (late of Westpoint Ashwell in the
County of Hertford who died on 9th March
1932) Angell v. Angell 1937 A. 1563 WHEREBY
the following enquiry was directed viz.: 1. An
enquiry whether Frederick Vincent Angell (a
son of the abovenamed Testator Nathan David
Angell) is living or dead and if dead whether
he died at a date prior to the date of the death
of the abovenamed Testator Nathan David
Angell and if so whether he left any and what
children him surviving and if he died subse-
quently to the death of the Testator who are
his personal representatives (if any) NOTICE
IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons claiming
to be entitled under the said enquiry are on
or before 14th April 1938 to send by post
prepaid to John Hugh Williams Idris of 71
Lincoln’s Inn Fields London W.C.2 England
their full Christian and surnames addresses
and descriptions and full particulars of their
claims or in default thereof they will be ex-
cluded from the benefit of the said order unless
the Court or Judge on application otherwise
orders. Wednesday 27th April 1938 at 2.30
o’clock in the afternoon is the time appointed
for adjudicating upon the claims before Master
Newman at the Chambers of the Judge Room
No. 162 Royal Courts of Justice Strand Lon-
don England.
A claimant not residing in England or Wales
must send with particulars of his claim the
name and address of a person in England or
Wales to whom notices to the Claimant can be
sent.
DATED this 14th day of December, 1937.
TREVOR C. NEWMAN,
Master of the Supreme Court.
Note. —The said Frederick Vincent Angell is
stated to have been born on 10th April, 1885.
He went to Australia in 1917.
MESSRS. TREDGOLDS & IDRIS, 71 ’
Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London, W.C.2, Solicitors
for the Plaintiff.
IN THE GLOUCESTER COUNTY COURT.
In the Matter of the Trusts of the Will of
GEORGE JONES Deceased late of Cin-
derford Gloucestershire England.
In the Estate of WILLIAM CORDWIN De-
ceased late of Cinderford Gloucestershire
England.
TAKE NOTICE that application having been
made in the County Court holden at Glou-
cester by Maurice Frederic Carter Solicitor
of Newnham in the county aforesaid a creditor
for the payment out of court out of certain
funds lodged there by the trustees of the said
GEORGE JONES deceased in November 1905
it is ordered that the sum found to be due after
taxation be paid out of court to the said
creditor together with the costs of the said
application Any person claiming to have an
interest in the said funds should give notice
to the Registrar of the said Court within three
calendar months from this day.
DATED this 22nd day of November, 1937.
O. J. WILLIAMS,
Registrar.
In the Matter of “The Public Curator Acts
1915 to 1924”
And
In the Matter of the Estate of late ALFRED
JOHN TEAS late of Katherine laborer
in the Territory of North Australia.
NOTICE is hereby given that BELLA WEBB,
CISSY WEBB and REG WEBB children of late
MATILDA WEBB daughter of the abovenamed
deceased or any person knowing their where-
abouts are requested to communicate with
THE PUBLIC CURATOR OF QUEENSLAND
Brisbane on or before the Tenth day of March
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight
and that after the expiration of that date
The Public Curator of Queensland will pro-
ceed to distribute the assets of the said de-
ceased amongst the persons entitled thereto
without regard to any claim by the said children
of the late Matilda Webb.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
The Public Curator of Queensland,
Brisbane.
Bankruptcy Notice.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
The Bankruptcy Act 1924-1933..
IN THE COURT OF BANKRUPTCY-
DISTRICT OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
• No. 55 of 1937.
Re DESIREE STAFFORD a debtor
Ex parte WUNDERLICH LIMITED a
creditor.
IN THE MATTER of a Bankruptcy Petition
dated the 13th day of December 1937.
TO DESIREE STAFFORD of “Kentucky”
Guildford Road Belmont in the State of
Western Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that a bankruptcy petition
has been presented against you in this Court
by Wunderlich Limited of Lord Street Perth
and the Court has ordered that the sending of
a sealed copy of the petition and order by regis-
tered post addressed to you at the above
address and publication of this notice in the
Commonwealth Gazette and in one issue of the
“West Australian” newspaper and “Bulletin
shall be deemed to be service of the bankruptcy
petition upon you AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that the said petition will be heard at
this Court on the 22nd day of February 1938
at 10.30 o’clock in the forenoon on which
day you are required to appear and if you do
not appear the Court may make a sequestration
order against you in your absence. The peti-
tion can be inspected by you on application at
this Court.
DATED this 23rd day of December, 1937.
(1.5.) G. J. BOYLSON,
Acting-Registrar.
DOWNING & DOWNING, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 39 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
The new pathology block at St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital is something fpr scientific
minds to dream about. As part of the
ground floor there are an office, library
and lecture-room. The lecture-room
with its parquet floor and glare-proof
lamps is for the use of medical students
attached to the hospital. By folding
doors it can be divided into two rooms,
for at both ends there are lecturers’
desks, blackboards and special window
gadgets fitted into the walls for the
demonstration of X-ray plates. The
library, well lit with daylight windows,
has a middle table where journals can
be found without trouble. Under a glass
top are pigeonholes for the stacking of
numbers of each particular publication.
The stairs have a green-and-yellow
color-scheme, a change from the drab
greys and browns in the musty clinics of
the past. On the first floor are half-a-
dozen laboratories, all well lighted and
ventilated, with a generous allowance of
taps, gas-jets and electric plugs. A use-
ful adaptation of sun-protector blinds is
used for the largest windows. The blinds
are outside the glass, and may be moved
at will by the twist of a handle on the
inside wall. Each student will have a
locker for his microscope and other
possessions. Dr. Andrew Brennan,
brother of Jennie and Eileen, is the
director of the path. lab. New assistants
who commence duties in the New Year
are Phyllis Rountree, Miss Fitzgerald
and Miss Vance.
Commendable ingenuity is shown in
the physiotherapy department of the
Alfred Hospital, where, on an average,
120 patients are treated per day. Re-
cently the department has increased its
staff of masseurs in order that some
members of its permanent staff may be
released to attend the little “polios” in
After-care Ward 12. Among some of
the exercising gadgets which one of the
hospital’s handymen made out of odds
and ends are a series of wooden bars for
strengthening fingers, a wheel something
like the steering-wheel of a ship by which
the patient can see as well as feel what
progress his arm muscles are making
towards freer movements, an apparatus
resembling a mangle for hand exercises,
for knees and legs a set of steps the
same height as tram-steps, a stationary
bicycle and a variety of sliding tobog-
gans. In the gymnasium near by plinths,
rubber mats and knee-pads are prac-
tically the only furnishings not home-
made. Electrical apparatus is a different
story, for the initial cost of ultra-violet
and infra-red lamps, diathermy and hot-
air machines doesn’t quite stop when the
purchase prices are paid, for there is
always the thought that no machines last
for ever and that newer inventions are
from time to time being put on the
market.
Physiotherapy departments do a lot
of good in a quiet way. When wage-
earners are ordered treatment special
efforts are made to get them well in the
shortest possible time. If patients have
no money to spare for tram, train and
bus fares an almoner looks into the case
and, if necessary, taps one of the hos-
pital’s sources of income. As in all
outpatients’ departments, physiotherapy
waiting-rooms have their romances.
Many of the regulars get a kick out
of seeing the same people every day,
from a chatty spot of gossip and from
finding someone to listen to the story of
their lives. There is also the excitement
of surmising over newcomers or over
the exclusive folk who prefer to sit alone.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
There was a gathering of the
McLachlan clan at the South Australian
when Mrs. H. P. McLachlan, of
Glenelg, and her two daughters-in-law,
Mrs. Byron McLachlan, of Paratoo
station, and Mrs. lan McLachlan, of
Knightsbridge, gave a cocktail party for
their friends to meet the Alec McLach-
lans, who were married in Melbourne
recently. The bride was no stranger,
being the youngest daughter of Dr.
W. A. Verco, of North Adelaide.
Joy, younger daughter of the F. W.
Crittendens, of Morphett Vale, was mar-
ried at Christ Church, North Adelaide, to
Grantham, only son of Mrs. C. Grant-
Williams. The bride’s white embroidered
organdie was cut on period lines with
full skirt, short puffed sleeves and
turned-down collar, and she wore a
large picture hat. Mrs. Dorothy Wake-
field, matron of honor, attended in white
organdie embroidered in apricot and
delphinium blue. She chose a blue hat.
Toasts were drunk at the Grosvenor.
Kathleen Sauerbier, well known in
Adelaide art circles, went to Melbourne
(St. John’s, Toorak) for her marriage to
John Bryce. The bride had just returned
from a trip to Fiji. After the ceremony
there was a small party at Mr. Bryce’s
flat, followed by a dinner at the Aus-
tralia.
The retiring secretary of the Adelaide
Women’s Club, Mrs. J. Somerville, who
transfers her services to the R.S.P.C.A.,
was given a farewell dinner. The whole
of the table appointments were in amber
glass and mixed flowers decorated. The
president, Miss Lamb, paid a tribute to
Mrs. Somerville on behalf of members.
Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Cave, accom-
panied by only daughter Mary, returned
after an absence of two years abroad, a
sad homecoming because of the recent
death of Cecil Bray. Mrs. Bray is
Mrs. Cave’s only sister, and they have
always been very attached to each other.
The Caves have a beautiful home at
Victor Harbor, and will go there for
the summer. More than half Adelaide
was at Victor Harbor during the holi-
days, getting into bathers (topless ones
are permitted).
Yvonne Richardson, of Urrbrae, Glen
Osmond, who scored a success in the
Adelaide production of “Viktoria and
Her Hussar,” is now appearing profes-
sionally in “O-Kay for Sound” in Mel-
bourne. She plays the part of Lady
Hamilton, and wears a very becoming
period frock. Her father, Prof. A. E. V.
Richardson, has been appointed to a
position in Victoria, and with Mrs.
Richardson will shortly be leaving for
the eastern State. Mrs. Richardson will
miss the beautiful old garden with its
wealth of flower.
WESTRALIA.
The Naval and Military Club gave a
housewarming party in its spacious new
premises in National House. Mrs. Mar-
golin, in mouldings of oyster satin
sprayed with orchids, helped her colonel
husband to receive the guests, and Mrs.
Lionel Logue, recently arrived from
London, looked statuesque in a full-
length white net coat veiling cyclamen-
printed white taffeta. Mrs. Arthur
Jacoby swung o.s. caped sleeves from her
white crepe girdings, Mrs. John Love
tucked rosebuds behind her ear to match
rose-patterned floral ninon, and Dorothy
Temperley banded silver lame with jade-
green and violet velvet.
From Ceylon comes news of the wed-
ding of Alwynne Lynn, of Perth, to
Robert Howie, of Travancore, India. An
early-Victorian note was struck in the
bridal raiment of flounced ivory lace, be-
trained with net-ruched palest-pink ninon
and veiled with old Honiton caught with
lilies-of-the-valley. The bride’s dainty
little sister-in-law, Mrs. Theo Lynn,
swayed confetti-spotted white net frillings
over rustling pink taffeta, and the Geoff
Lynns’ small daughter June carried the
train in billowing white organza over
pink taffeta, with a demure Dutch bonnet
to match. A number of Westralians went
along to the Galle Face afterwards to
drink a toast.
The E. G. Lumbs’ daughter Dorothy
pabed the long aisle of St. George’s
Cathedral in flowing draperies of white
satin beclouded with tulle veilings to meet
Brian Simpson, of South Perth, at the
altar. A trio of ’maids, Sheila Gill, Betty
Cuthbert and Joan Toogood, formed a
misty retinue in lilac chiffon with tops
cut Grecianwise and skirts gracefully
draped to the front. Semicirclets of
palest flowertips to match bouquets en-
circled their dark curls. The Karrakatta
Club Hall housed the after-rejoicings,
where Mrs. Lumb did the honors in
black ninon V-yoked and beaded in a
flower design with tiny black and pink
beads.
Mailboat welcomes at Fremantle are
becoming a Tuesday fixture. Recently-
returned travellers are Pat Saw, after an
eight months’ sojourn in England, the
Jack Coxes and Mrs. J. Scadden from a
prolonged holiday in India and Dorothy
Balstone, who has returned to the bosom
of her family after junketings in India.
Old Westralian families were well
represented at Mrs. King Atkins’s party
for recently-arrived Lieut.-Col. and Mrs.
de Castilla. Tall gladioli and bowls of
hydrangeas backgrounded the hostess’s
flowered black French crepe, and remi-
niscences of old days circulated with the
cocktails.
Premier J. C. Willcock’s daughter
Elaine is sporting brand-new diamonds,
the gift of William Moylan, Mount
Lawley.
TASMANIA.
Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Clemes and their
two girls, who live in England, are pay-
ing the parental roof a visit. The W. H.
Clemeses gave a reception for them, when
about 70 guests rolled up. Amusements
included a treasure hunt and a delightful
musical programme arranged by Madame
Helen George. Floral decorations were
mainly in blue and pink, with the candle-
lit supper-room all in yellow-brownish
tones. The hostess wore black chiffon
velvet, and her daughters, Mrs. A. Pal-
freyman and Ruth Clemes, helped her
entertain.
Parties took on all sorts of shapes and
sizes in the last few days of the year.
Rymer Maxwell, Mrs. Alex. McGregor
and Mrs. C. N. Atkins combined in an
all-day shivoo at Brown’s River as a
welcome-home to the James Murrays and
the Barclay girls. The commodious sea-
side cottage which marks Miss Maxwell’s
second home sported real mistletoe as
part of its decorative scheme. Guests
enjoyed a buffet lunch, and played bridge
afterwards.
The T. Sampsons ran a gay party for
son Dick when he attained the dignity
of 21. There were dancing, table tennis
and a supper, in which a huge birthday-
cake was a feature. Guests were chiefly
young people. Mrs. Sampson’s black
lace frock had red carnations on the
shoulder.
Brenda Walch was hostess at a linen
tea for her cousin, Pat Walch —one of
the many pre-wedding parties which
have been given for this popular girl. A
day or two later Mrs. Charlie Walch
gave a luncheon party for the same
young bride-to-be.
The Fred Downies, Glenelg, gave a
sherry party at Hadley’s, when daughter
Margaret’s engagement to Hugh Walch
was announced. The hostess was in
blue, with lace blouse. Margaret wore
a floral frock and most becoming hat.
Mary Andrewartha, of Hobart, and
Fred Churcher Wells, of Auckland
(M.L.), announce their engagement.
Artistic little Adye Bailey is paying
Hobart a visit and looking up old friends.
She has been studying commercial art in
Sydney.
Mrs. Nora Field, whose four months’
trip on the mainland has been not only
for pleasure, but has included a lot of
study of methods of drug-dispensing and
other matters connected with her job; is
home again.
Authoress Marie Bjelke-Petersen is
back in the Speck and intends writing an-
other book with a Tasmanian setting.
She spent months in Queensland getting
local color for her latest novel , Jungle
Night, which has been well received in
England.
The Edgeworth David lady is staying
with her daughter, Mrs. W. K. Mein-,
tyre, Launceston.


tcvolt/
Don’t let your life be domina-
ted by pestilential flies and
other insects—destroy them
utterly with Insectibane...the
powder that positively cannot
fail. Safe and non-irritating,
unable to stain or taint,
INSECTIBANE is the ideal
weapon for eliminating
insect pests. Sold by chemists
and stores everywhere: just
•ay “ Insectibane.”
INSECTIBANE
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.
DiyORCE.
TO ERIC RONALD LAMB whose last known
address is Ellingerrin Station near Geelong
in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice to
you to appear and answer the charges in the
petition of ELEANOR JANE LAMB of Port-
land in the State of Victoria praying for dis-
solution of marriage IN DEFAULT of your
so appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said petition proved and pronounce judg-
ment in respect thereto AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid before the 12th day of February
1938 an appearance must be entered at the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania
Macquarie Street Hobart.
R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you
price for the original.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Dick Tafone”: Brisbane’s city fathers
recently expressed to several hundred
ratepayers their Christmas wish that life
should strew its richest blessings upon
the recipients. The message was con-
veyed upon an admirably-drawn pencil-
picture of the ex-million-pound City
Hall. Unluckily it has aroused feelings
of quite an opposite nature to those
which it conveys among a particularly
articulate section of ratepayers, the
master printers. The card was printed in
Melbourne! Ludmayor Jones hastily
disclaimed all knowledge of the matter,
advancing a Southport alibi in support.
The Town Clerk referred darkly to “cir-
cumstances in connection with the matter
of which the council had been unaware.
Had these circumstances been known, the
result would have been otherwise.” A
further mysterious detail is that the card
does not carry the name of the firm which
printed it. Meanwhile, master printers
and the printing unions are combined in
the grim purpose of having someone’s
blood for it.
* * # *
“M. Turlutu”: With 22,000 trees of
hundreds of varieties, Brisbane claims
to possess, at New Farm Park, Aus-
tralia’s largest and finest rose-garden.
Eighty-five years ago it was a very dif-
ferent scene, one of dense bush inter-
spersed with swamps and claypans, sur-
rounding a circular racetrack a mile in
circumference, railed off with saplings on
forks. Accommodation for lookers-on
and the saddling-paddock were in a clear-
ing where the lower end of Sydney-street
now is, and the finishing point was close
to the dressing-shed of the present-day
sportsground. Most of the racegoers
walked or rode to the course, but
steamers brought contingents from Ips-
wich and the Brisbane Valley districts
as well as from the lower river, landing
them on the steep bank adjoining the
course. New Farm succeeded the origi-
nal meetings at Cooper’s Plains in 1852,
and lasted till 1863, when the Eagle Farm
track was opened by the Q.T.C.
* * * *
“K.P.”: The casual mariner again!
As the Port Montreal was passing down
the Brisbane River outward bound for
Noumea an A.B. fell overboard. Grab-
bing the lifebuoy which was let go on
the call of “Man overboard,” he struck
out for the Shell Co.’s wharf, some 60
yards away, and was seen from the ship
struggling through the mud under the
wharf. A passer-by saw him soon after-
wards, attired in a mud-soaked singlet
and pants, climbing the high fence of
the wharf, and the lifebuoy was found
by the water police in the foreshore
mud. But of the seaman himself no
trace was available.
* * * *
“Grassy Hill”: None of these boast-
ful banana-eating champions of the South
ever came anywhere near to the per-
formance of Mick Fienn, still an admired
resident of Cooktown (N.Q.). A quarter
of a century ago Tom McLean backed
his nephew, Tom Baldwick, against Mick
for £5O. Barney Worth, the world’s fat-
test cabman, made a three-hander of
the contest with a start of six dozen.
Standard 6in. to 7in. bananas were used
in rounds of a dozen. Mick led off.
Barney, even with his start and size, was
full at the third round. Baldwick held
on pluckily to the end of the tenth,
though swelling visibly. Mick finished
strong at the end of his eleventh. Bald-
wick, full of pluck, made a gallant effort,
got down his 121st banana, and then had
to gasp acknowledgment of defeat. Mick
was unmoved, completed his twelfth
dozen, and amid excited plaudits went on
to gain the world’s record with 13 dozen
and two. We chaired him round the
town, decked with sausages..
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Innisfail (N.Q.) has a
last and latest trouble in the way of giant
“ ’Course all this'd be before your time ”
toads neglecting their proper job and
taking to city life. It is not so much a
matter of the lure of the lights as one
of appetite. They like the largest, most
brilliant lights because they attract the
most beetles, and beetles are the gastro-
nomic hobby of giant toads. They like
frogs as diet, too, so much that frogs
are invading local houses for shelter, to
the great annoyance of residents. Innis-
fail has a whole lot of frogs. Worse still,
the big toads are poisonous to inquiring
dogs who pick them up for sampling,
and greyhounds are particularly inquisi-
tive. Innisfail is in the grip of coursing
to-day, and every local owner of a tyke
with a turn of speed is getting anxious.
Apart from that the yells of citizens upon
whose chests a pound of cold frogmeat
falls at midnight are quite noticeable.
"Australia Jane's" Budget.
Large masses of humanity departed
joyously to the seaside for the holidays,
and the beaches burst into exotic color.
Huge umbrellas blossomed everywhere,
and all the colors of the rainbow were
woven into the kaleidoscopic pattern of
the beach parade. Many owners of
yachts and launches invited house-
parties. The Byrne Harts had their
launch anchored just off their cottage at
Labrador, and in the Broadwater were
the W. Hamiltons, the Eric Sparkeses,
Gordon Archibald and a party of guests,
Mr. and Mrs. F. Bruce, Mr. and Mrs.
J. H. Hancock and Mr. and Mrs. Huy-
bers and the family, all with a crowd of
sun- and surf-worshippers aboard.
Caloundra is packed, for the v.-r.
party are in residence, and accommoda-
tion is taxed to the limit. Staying with
her aunts, Misses N. and B. Palmer, is
Mrs. Bill Pueregger (Marjorie Bulcock
that was, whose grandfather was one of
Caloundra’s pioneers), with her husband.
There were dances and dinners, cocktail
parties and supper parties in hotels and
private homes.
Toowoomba girls entertained their
friends at a Christmas ball in the
pavilion at the Show Grounds and
decked the place with fairy lights,
flowers and green garlands. The com-
mittee members were Charmian Bernays,
Janet Nelson, Shirley Lloyd, Mary Nel-
son, Joan Connal, Lorna Richardson,
Margaret Murray and Mary Henderson.
About a hundred other, debs, and their
slightly older sisters were included
among the hostesses.
Two Brisbane girls hit on an unusual
way of spending their holiday vac.
They started gaily off to Dalby on horse-
back. Their luggage went by rail, and
at night the girls stayed in townships.
Esther Bedford parted company With
her travelling mate, Olive Clark, at
Dalby and took both horses on to
Ducklo, where she stayed with Mrs.
Miller. Olive is staying with friends at
Jandowae.
Mr. and Mrs. A. V. Logan left for
Sydney by boat on New Year’s Day.
They took their car with them, and after
a few days in Sydney are going on to
Bowral. Mabel and Daisy Midson, who
always have been inveterate travellers,
go to Sydney early in the New Year and
on to Maoriland. They will be away
for about two months.
Mary McMinn, one of the leading
spirits in the Business Girls’ Club, went
off to China some months ago to take
a position. She got some first-hand
experiences of life in the war zone and
is thankful to be home again at her old
job with the City Council. Bombs and
machine guns woke her up one morning,
and she took refuge with a crowd of
other folk in the Peiping legation quarter,
which was guarded by British, French,
Italian, American and Japanese soldiers.
She joined the International Women’s
Relief Committee, which looked after
the hungry, half-clad people who
thronged Peiping.
Over 100 children from the Spring Hill
and Valley playgrounds were entertained
at a seasonable party, and Miss M. J.
Bedford, to whom goes the credit for
beginning the playgrounds movement in
Brisbane, was at the door to greet them
and their parents. Sprigs of holly, fes-
toons of greenery and colored streamers
decorated the big room at the Spring
Hill playground.
The dance arranged by Sheilah White
to swell the funds of the T.B. Sailors and
Soldiers’ Association, held at the Belle
Vue Hotel, was a huge success. A bunch
of mistletoe hung over the doorway, to-
gether with a notice to “please observe
the custom.” There were witch-bowls
of red and white flowers and chains
of fairy lights. A floral frock in
shades of black, green and white
was worn by Sheilah, who was offi-
cial hostess. Stuart James, president
of the association, and his wife took
along a big party.
Elizabeth, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
R. Sellars, of St. Kilda, Melbourne, and
formerly of Brisbane, was married in
the Littlejohn Memorial Chapel, Scotch
College, Melbourne, to Albert, eldest son
of Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Carlyle, of Hei-
delberg. Eileen Byrne, Helen Mackin-
tosh and Joan Grinblat were the ’maids.
After the honeymoon the newly-married
pair will make their home at Too-
woomba.
Friends in N.S.W. and Queensland were
interested in the wedding of Winifred,
daughter of Mr. W. V. Buzacott, of
Strathfield (N.S.W.), and Edward King,
of Cunnamulla, second son of Mr.
Edward King of Toowoomba. Amy King
was bridesmaid. The wedding was cele-
brated at the Strathfield Congregational
Church. Bridegroom is a member of the
family who held Gowrie when it was the
show station of the Downs. The new
home will be at Cunnamulla.
During the holidays a C.W.A. party
went to Amity Point, and entertained
all the kiddies from the P.E.I. camp
at a lavish spread. Sailing men
of a past generation wouldn’t know
Amity if they saw it now. The road
to Pt. Lookout has been completed,
and early in the New Year the P.E.I.
workers start on the construction of a
road to Dunwich which in time will
stretch as far as the Brown and Blue
Lakes.


VITA- LICK
AS GOOD FOR CATTLE
AS FOR SHEEP.
Mr. M. F. Swan, Mgr., “Kangatong,"
Hawkesdale, Vic., writes, 6112/’37: —
“For the past 5 years I have used
Vita-Lick for both sheep and cattle.
Undoubtedly it has improved the wool
growth of the sheep, and we always
have a big percentage of lambs and
well grown.
“I find Vita-Lick most satisfactory for
breeding cows. The calves show a
splendid bloom and are a well-grown,
healthy lot, and keep this bloom right
through till we sell at three years old.”
VITA-LICK LTD.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney
MANAGING THE DRY SPELL.
“Tri-cal”: Don’t forget in your dowp-
heartedness because you have had to
move your sheep so far for pasture that
they can do well on the feeding stuffs
available in dry season provided that they
are given a good phosphate mixture.
A liberal use of Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is
of great assistance, enabling the stock
to make the best use of the poor, coarse
fodders which are generally low in feed-
ing value. The simple Tri-cal-os and salt
mixture I think has helped to maintain
my sheep in all-round good condition,
and it can do as much for yours. I got
MoJi
the folder about using it from Davis Gelatine (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
Tell them you are interested in wool. Old Farmer.
TILLEY LAMPS
300 CANDLE POWER
Obtainable
from your local
British made. Fool
proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on
lj pints of kerosene.
Three times the life of
ordinary mantles. All
lamps fitted with
PYKEX Globes and
insect proof fittings.
Model EX4 All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated,
may be used as a
Storm Lantern, Hang-
ing Lamp, or Table
Lamp. Height, 19in.
Price, 50/-
Complete.
Write for Catalogue of
Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
W. KOPSEN & CO.. LTD..
70 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Wool Substitutes.
“C.V.S.”: World wool-production has
increased by only 1 p.c. per year over
the last 15 years, while the wool-using
population has shown a much larger in-
crease.
Lanital, made from casein, is the best
of the many overseas substitutes; it
closely approximates in chemical com-
position to wool, but it does not dupli-
cate. the vital cellular construction.
An extensive press campaign created
a demand for lanital, but Italy’s prob-
lem has been to maintain the supply. Her
hoped-for production of 18,000,0001 b.
per year by 1936, which anyway would
be only a drop in the textile bucket,
fell far short actual output was
3,000,0001 b. The Italian dairy-
ing industry supplied little more
than half its theoretical maxi--
mum casein, and the price, im-
ported from France, Holland
and Argentina, has risen.
Germany’s production of
wollstra has increased rapidly
from 9200 tons in 1934 to an
estimated 90,000 tons in 1937,
while her purchases of Aus-
tralian wool have decreased
from 100,000,0001 b. t o
37,000,0001 b. in four years. As
with casein, the price of wood
pulp is up, but the cheapest of Ger-
many’s artificial fibres sells for under
half the price of wool —in Germany.
Meanwhile Germany and Italy are
competing more strongly in the wool
market than last year. From July 1 to
Nov. 30, 1937, Australian wool exported
to Germany amounted to 74,814 bales
compared with 38,847 bales for the same
period of 1936. Exports to Italy are
49,743 bales and 25,722 bales for the
same periods. It appears that the wool
industry has little to fear as yet.
Our Wool Competitors.
“Ghanam”: Australia’s two main com-
petitors in the world’s wool markets are
looking forward to a prosperous season.
The Argentine has a little less wool
than last year, 380,000,0001 b. —about
44,800,0001 b. of merino, 97,000,0001 b.
fine crossbred, 75,000,0001 b. medium
crossbred and 94,000,0001 b. low cross-
bred. Prices, though lower than last
year, have kept up well.
S’Africa is not getting last year’s
prices, but nevertheless figures are highly
satisfactory. Prices for spinners’ weft-
type fleece have ranged round and
for warp-type of the same counts round
The total quantity received into
store to November 30 is 293,000 bales,
while the quantity offered at auction was
248,000 bales. The market is improv-
ing in line with Australian improvement,
and on December 17 was firm. The
average value per bale in Australian cur-
rency was about £l7 9s. and per pound
roughly 14d.
Another Revolution.
“Hubback’s Uncle”: Latest develop-
ments in refrigeration and flying lead me
to wonder how far they will revolution-
ise the breeding of stock within a decade.
It has for long been practical to trans-
fer seed from a stallion or a bull to a
female of the same species and produce
offspring, so long as the job is done
quickly. But by judicious cooling animal
seed can now be kept active for several
days, the period differing according to
species, and the aeroplane brings con-
tinents within reach of each other for
breeding purposes.. When the trans-
atlantic air services are in operation, it
will be possible for U.S.A., Canadian
and Argentine breeders to fertilise
females from British bulls; and this sys-
tem, already operating fairly extensively
experimentally in Europe, should have
an important effect on the bull-export
trade and on the fabulous prices which
American buyers now pay for British
cattle sires.
When the time by air from London to
Australia has been halved, Australia will
also be in the zone, and the new tech-
nique may well revolutionise the quality
“I keep on dreamin' about foxes!”
of Australian cattle and put the beef
export market on its feet. I do not
know what the record fertilising of a bull
is—the best within my experience among
front-rank animals was the showing of
Arthur* Lomax’s Queensland champion,
Grand Duke of Clifton, which fathered
114 calves in a season. But by the arti-
ficial system, I should imagine that any
one good and vital bull could have a
family of many hundreds a year.
The Animal Research Institute at Cam-
bridge (Eng.) is studying the whole ques-
tion. One calf which it is rearing
has a Dutch Friesian sire which has
never been within 200 miles of the dam.
It is several weeks old, healthy and
normal.
It is only a short step forward to the
stage at which seed from leading animal
sires can be kept for long periods. When
that is accomplished the words “inbreed-
ing” and “line breeding” will acquire
new meanings.
A Good Udder.
“5.8.”: The best all-round udder is
one which will carry the animal’s flush
yield of four, five or six gallons with-
out undue stretching, and do so up to
12 or 14 years of age.
Most large udders are either fleshy or
begin to break down by the fourth lac-
tation. The really good bag does not
show out until the cow is five or six
years old, and then it does not appear
massive. It fits well into the body, be-
tween wide hind legs, and on to a flat
abdominal floor which is deeply angled
between the legs.
Any vessel which hangs low comes in
for much unnecessary buffeting, and is
always filthy—both often lead to
mastitis.
Sore Teats.
“Silky Bag”: “Sandy’s” cure would in
many cases be worse than the complaint
(B. 22/12/’37): the Condy’s irritates the
sore at each milking.
At least 80 p.c. of teat sores are not
cowpox, but are due to faults in the
cow’s anatomy or bad milking technique
and uncleanliness. Disinfectants do not
“cure.” They merely reduce the bac-
terial contamination, and allow the
animal a chance to repair the broken
tissues.
Many sore teats are the result of bul-
bous-type teats combined with small
nipple openings. The milker has to use
more than normal force to get the milk,
and the skin breaks.
Often small nipple openings are caused
by chronic infections and respond to
daily bathing in warm boracic and a
mild ointment, say a creamy paste of
bismuth subnitrate and castor oil.
If sore teats are the result of tender
skin it’s best to sell the cow. Usually,
however, the line of sores runs around
the base of the teat and results from
hair-pulling there, plus contamination by
dirty hands. It pays to clip these hairs
every couple of months or so.
Again, many sores are caused by filthy
water and/or wet milking. The latter
cases can be cured by milking teats
smeared with vaseline. Soft texture of
the teats is important.
Cowpox is not as common as is be-
lieved. C.P. sores are raised hot, hard
pimples, which come slowly and break
only after some time, if at all. The usual
sore teat is a flat, ulcerous wound.
Herd-testing in Victoria.
“Mookau”: In Victoria 2350 herds,
covering 80,000 cows, are now being regu-
larly tested, a small figure when it is
considered that 4,500,000 cows are now
being tested throughout the world, mostly
in Anglo-Saxon countries.
The average Victorian production is
still only 1601 b. butterfat as against
Maoriland’s 3001 b. per cow. In all Vic-
toria there are only 20,000 cows which
produce more than 3001 b. b.f.
W. J. Yuill, who supervises the State’s
herd-testing, estimates that most Vic-
torian dairy farmers have a capital in-
vestment per cow of £lOO and a main-
tenance cost per cow of £3. One male
worker, according to Yuill, can handle
15 cows, and he has'tabulated the effect
of yield on maintenance charges:
Annual Cost of Production Per Pound.
Yield b.f. per cow 1601 b. 2001 b. 2501 b. 3001 b.
d. d. d. d.
Interest, 5 p.c. 7.4 6 5 4
Labor .. .. 14 11 9 8
General mainten-
ance, £3 per cow 4.2 3.3 3 2.2
Cost per annum
per pound .. 25.6 20.3 17 14.2
This is on an average annual cost per
cow of £lB. If these figures are valid a
lot of farmers must be losing heavily.
Every item responds to improvement.
Double the carrying capacity of the farm
and interest charge comes down ; double
output per cow, and return per cow goes
up substantially.
A combination of improvement in pro-
duction per acre and production per cow
means, as Yuill remarks,' “the difference
between hopeless slavery and satisfactory
living.”
The present position is doubly exas-
perating to those who have studied it
for years because there is scarcely a herd
in coastal N. S. Wales or in the dairying
districts of Victoria which could not be
brought up to the 3001 b.-per-cow level
with judicious breeding and pasture im-
provement.
Blistering a Horse.
“Stump Jump”: A blister is not just an
irritative ointment to be rubbed on a
swollen part. The idea is, by a process
of winter-irritation, to increase the cir-
culation deep in the affected area, so
aiding the blood to dissolve inflammatory
fluids and reduce growths.
A blister should not be applied to a
freshly-raised swelling which is hot, in-
tense and sore. The initial puffiness
must first be removed by bathing, hot
cloths or rest. Hair is best clipped from
the area, as it invariably falls out after a
good blistering, and hinders rubbing.
Of the blisters available, the red (mer-
cury iodide), brown (cantharides) and the
red-brown (a mixture of both) are best.
The red is slower but more sustained in
action than the brown.
The degree of blistering varies with
individual horses and with the rubbing-
in. It is best to apply the ointment
lightly and rub for a few minutes, noting
effects after six to twelve hours. If there
are no blisters, apply again and rub in
thoroughly.
The horse’s head must be tied close
to the feed stall to prevent his licking
the ointment, which irritates the urinary
passages even in small doses. More
than two legs should not be done at
once, and the others no sooner than
three weeks after the first operation.
Do not rub much blister in during
hot weather, when its effects are stronger.
Too heavy an application can be washed
off with warm water, and mild antisep-
tics like dettol, hexol, etc., applied. The
skin at the back of joints must never be
blistered, as it can crack easily and may
be hard to heal. Also, any cuts or sores
must not have ointment rubbed-in, as the
drugs are easily absorbed into the system
in this way.


TTie'^xxlletML
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
ĵ
V
you’re wanting
comfort
Not just for good fitting, but for soft, roomy, cushionlike comfort, try this new Abbey
Capless Boot.
When you feel the soft wallaby-skin upper mould around your foot, and your toes
spread naturally in their easy-fitting fronts, you realize what comfort really is.
An Abbey model in Black Wallaby Skin, made in full and half sizes, and also in wide
and extra-wide fittings. Price 37/6
“IF ITS AN ABBEY SHOE ITS A GOOD SHOE.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
j
ĵ
Demco Diesel Tractors Burn Crude Oil
BUILT IN TWO SIZES, 18/38 and 30/50.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
DEMCO MACHINERY CO.,
243 Cleveland Street, Redfern, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
jOUnHIMKHr
TO
PERSONAL
ATTENTION.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
abort holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
l
VS*
V
E3A
%
m
i e
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD., King St„ Sydney
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Friday .
Farm Trials.
“Hortus”: Old cultivation land at
North Berry Jerry (N.S.W.), a red granite
loam, was disk-ploughed 4in. deep in
July. In October it was spring-toothed,
then scarified in February. On May 12
it was sown with five wheats.
Bencubbin was the best yielder with
49 bushels, then Duchess 44, Dundee and
Baringa 43, and Ford 42.
The same careful cultivation was car-
ried out with five oats —601 b. seed and
841 b. super, were used. The yield was
Belar 59, Kareela 58|, Burke 55, Gidgee
51 and Fulghum 50| bushels.
With even better cultivation a light
red loam had an exceptional return. Fol-
lowing a crop in 1936, the land was
worked with a sundercut in January. It
was harrowed in February, rolled and
scarified in March.
A combine sowed the five wheats on
May 6. A bushel of seed and 801 b.
super, filled the bill. Bencubbin came
first again with 50. Then the order was
Dundee, Duchess, Ford and Baringa—
all fairly equal.
The oats result, with 601 b. seed and,
801 b. super., put Guyra first with 78,
then Algerian 76, Weston 73 and Belar
72i bushels.
Trees.
“K.Mc.”: “Q.Y.’s” advice that no
growing timber should be ringbarked or
destroyed “within two chains” of any
still or running water (B. 15/12/’37)
leaves me cold. Grasses and perennial
legumes, not trees, are the most efficient
soil-binders.
The destruction of trees has helped
the blowfly and grasshopper pests—not,
as suggested, through the loss of bird life,
but simply because neither sheep for
the blowies to trouble nor grass for the
’hoppers to eat could be cultivated in
the green timber.
As to birds putting it over poison in
’hopper destruction, thousands of blue-
martins swarmed over the egg beds in
the Mudgee district last spring, the most
I have ever seen, but the young ’hops
emerged so fast the birdies filled up with
them. Brain bait, on properties where
a determined effort was made, accounted
for 90 p.c. kills.
One District Succeeds.
“X.T.”: Warialda (N.S.W.) P.P. Board
distributed ’hopper poison free at an
early stage of the 1937 invasion, with the
result that, while some other surrounding
areas were eaten out, the swarming round
Warialda was on a comparatively small
scale, the areas most affected being
those near the boundaries of other
districts.
It is time now to prepare for the next
’hopper season. If intensive organisation
were developed under State auspices in
N. S. Wales, Queensland and S.A. and
bran-bait depots laid down to be ready
for the next spring hatching, most dist-
ricts could have the same results next
year.
It would cost a good deal to rigidly
enforce the Noxious Insects legislation
against the belief of many farmers. But
it would pay for itself five times over.
Flax Culture.
“Marsh”: Over 30 years ago attempts
to grow flax profitably in Australia were
a failure. With the introduction of a
new variety, Liral Crown—it has a
greater fibre content than Riga and is
an earlier maturer —results from crops
harvested in Victoria are more promis-
ing.
In the Birregurra district (Vic.), one
farmer has harvested two tons per acre
from 170 acres, and with the formation
of a company, which is offering £5 per
ton for crops reasonably free of weeds,
a market is assured. The co. distributes
Liral Crown seed to growers at half the
cost of importation.
To date the binder has been used in
Victoria for harvesting, a cause of weed
prevalence, but with the introduction of
the Italian pulling machine better results
would be had. Grasses and edible weeds
left behind would then be available for
pasture.
Mexican Poppy.
“Bluey”: Except that the prickly
leaves and stems are blue, Mexican
poppy resembles milk thistle.
A mature plant grows from one to
three feet high. The flowering period
lasts from October till late February.
The flowers are large, cup-shaped and
cream. They develop into long, fat pods
packed with seeds about the size of
turnip seed.
Mexican poppy spreads rapidly on
newly-run, loose surface or poorly-
grassed country. It likes river or creek
beds and banks. No stock except goats
will touch it.
Mowing and digging are good methods
of control. Pulling is effective when
the ground is moist; but gloves must be
worn as a protection against the
poisonous spikes. »
As plants are easily missed, don’t
expect to get rid of the pest in one
season.
Carrot Weed.
“Mulyan”: Carrot weed, regularly
grazed by dairy cattle, imparts an ob-
jectionable flavor to cream, butter and
cheese. The weed is the common wild
carrot that sprinkles pasture lands from
the N.S.W. South Coast to the Tweed
River. Mixed with native grasses it is
relished by horses and cattle.
When fed down, it sprouts again. In
appearance, .it is somewhat similar to
the cultivated carrot, but has a thin,
fibrous root, and the leaves when
crushed have a strong carroty smell. It
is hardy and spreads in drought, when
it is not so hampered as in good seasons
by grasses.
Constant heavy grazing tends to spread
other weeds as well as wild carrot. At
present the most thickly-infested parts
are the Hunter and the Clarence River
districts, but, according to A. M. Brown,
the senior N.S.W. dairy instructor and
butter-grader, it has this year infected
the product of practically every factory
in the coastal districts.
Short of pulling up the weed, a for-
midable task, the best way of checking it
is to spell the paddocks by rotational
grazing. Up to a few years ago, it was
kept in check by bandicoots, possums,
fat kangaroos and koalas. Another in-
stance of upsetting the balance of
nature.
“M.N.”: A comeback ewe at North
Wakool, sold at Echuca, produced four
lambs, which were hand-fed for six weeks
and then left with the flock until ready
for sale. Two of them brought 255. each
and the other two 225. The ewe cut an
81b. 15d. fleece, so that her total earn-
ing for the season was £5 4s.
“Cockyson”: Powdered charcoal, if
administered in time, is a remedy for
strychnine poisoning. The charcoal must
be fresh and reduced to fineness. Directly
strychnine poisoning is suspected a hand-
ful of the powder should be forced down
the dog’s throat. If no charcoal is avail-
able a handful of broken-up green grass
will often induce vomiting.
“Jumbuck”: Visitors to Sydney Anni-
versary Show won’t see any sheep. Of
course, the jumbucks have their own
show later in the year, but overseas
visitors can’t be expected to know that.
Any agricultural and pastoral show with-
out jumbucks is about as interesting as
one without horse events.
“Pappamosca”: Another pig disease
hitherto unknown in Australia has turned
up in southern N.S.W., where a farm has
been quarantined for swine erysipelas. It
is a particularly serious matter in a cli-
mate such as ours. Affected animals are
certain to be condemned. Farmers who
have the slightest suspicion of the
disease’s presence should report imme-
diately to the nearest stock inspector.
Unless the situation is handled promptly
a spread of infection may cost them
every pig they own.
S.A. wheat harvest, which was offi-
cially estimated at the end of November
as likely to be 38,750,000 bushels, has
had the odd 750,000 knocked off by
heavy rains at the beginning of
December.


THE ONLY RECEIVER
tde DISCRIMINATING
LISTENER..,
listeners who demand the most exacting
quality in their Radio quiekly discern and
appreciate the perfection of the Ultimate
Receiver.
Ultimate Receivers are designed for your
enjoyment. Their unusual power makes
them unrivalled for world-wide reception.
You can tour the world at will, delight in
music and entertainment from numerous
foreign countries, with the same smooth
reception as your local stations.
Other features that make Ultimate the
perfect Radio are the increased- sensitivity,
absolute accuracy in tuning, and the
glorious tonal realism.
DO YOU KNOW THAT NO
FEWER THAN 798 VERI-
FIED STATIONS HAVE
BEEN LOGGED ON A
STANDARD ULTIMATE
RECEIVER?
PRICES
FROM
£29/15/-
ULTIMATE
SOLE AUSTRALIAN CONCESSIONAIRES,
OlTAld "03 S NM0H8 039
Electrical and Industral Engineers
Write for full particulars:
267 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Telephone: M2544 (2 lines).
Build the
POCKET
SUPER REGENERATOR
FROM A
RADIO MAC
KIT.
Complete Kit of Parts ready
to be built into a cigar-box, in-
cluding Valve, Batteries and
Headphones.
NETT
£3
F.0.R..
SYDNEY.
PRI E S RADIO SERVICE
(D. G. McINTYRE),
S and 6 Angel Place, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
TWO POCKET PORTABLES.
The idea of a pocket super-regenerator
for reception of local broadcasting sta-
tions is not new, and through the years
many receivers using one or two valves
in compact form have been designed. It
should be understood that no pocket
portable designed around one or two
valves can bring in distant stations, but
it is possible, by making use of the
super-regenerator, to make up in very
small dimensions a receiver that will
tune in the local stations with volume
somewhat better than a good crystal set.
Fig. 1. — Circuit, with values, of a single valve super-regenerator for
broadcast reception, using a frame aerial.
There is no need for any external
aerial. Dimensions of the grid inductance
of the tuner are made as large as pos-
sible to increase direct signal pickup, and
it becomes, in effect, a loop or frame
aerial. A super-regenerative detector is
many thousands of times more sensitive
than a plain regenerative detector. Re-
ceivers of similar type are used very
successfully in connection with police
radio communication in some European
countries.
Range is limited, but reception is effec-
tive within that range, and that is all
that is needed. The receiver outlined in
Fig. 1 (from “Radio News,” U.S.A.) was
built recently by the writer, and found to
do just what was claimed for it. Any-
where around Sydney, and even in a
heavily-screened city office, it will tune
in all the Sydney stations on headphones.
It has the advantage that the stations
can be tuned in without the overlapping
present with an ordinary crystal set.
One must, however, become familiar
with the tuning, for regeneration plays
an all-important role, akin to that of
the usual regenerative detector.
Since a single valve of the 30 type
is used, dry cells for A and B battery
will run the little receiver for several
months’ ordinary use.
There are few components.
The Frame Aerial.
For use with the .00016mfd. tuning
condenser specified (Raymart or Formo)
convenient dimensions for the frame
aerial (grid and reaction coil) work out
at 56 turns of 32 D.S.C. on a rectangular
former measuring 7in. by 3fin. by Hin.
This former is the outside of the ply-
wood box holding the entire receiver,
with the exception of headphones. The
turns for the aerial are close wound, 28
on each side, leaving a gap of about
|in. for the tuning and regeneration con-
denser spindles. Two plain knobs are
used, these controls being at the top of
the receiver, and a headphone jack, com-
bining filament switching, is fitted at one
side.
Midget variable condensers are essen-
tial in order to get everything inside a
box of such small dimensions, but if
somewhat larger size is no objection it
is a simple matter to build up the re-
ceiver in a larger box and to experi-
ment with turns of insulated wire for
the frame aerial.
In the circuit LI is the aerial —
nothing more than the familiar Reinartz
coil, tapped for reaction. The tapping
is taken to the rotor of the ,00016mfd.
tuning condenser, 15 turns from the
plate end, to which is connected the
.0025mfd. reaction condenser. A
.OOOlmfd. variable condenser can be used
here, and the tapping position varied
along the coil to suit.
Circuit Details.
This form of super-regenerative cir-
cuit is designed to oscillate at two fre-
quencies. Operation is similar to the
super-regenerator with a separate
“quenching” valve, but only one valve
is used. The valve oscillates at the fre-
quency of the received signal and at the
same time at a lower frequency just
above audibility.
Signal frequency oscillation is varied
by means of the tuning condenser, and
the interruption frequency is adjusted by
the proper balance of the tapped choke,
L 2, and the fixed capacity across it.
In the receiver tried .004 was found to
be most suitable, but it may be desir-
able to vary this capacity up or down,
depending upon the particular R.F. choke
used. Variation is necessary if a con-
stant audio squeal is heard. Usually the
capacity of the condenser is too large
and should be reduced. The choke, L 2,
calls for an inductance of around 20
m.h., tapped about one-third of the in-
ductance.
The writer connected three slot-wound
broadcast R.F. chokes in series and
tapped from the junction of the first
and second. The R.F. choke in the plate
of the valve is a four-section honeycomb
of 2.1 m.h. inductance (Eddystone make).
Filament current for the 30 valve is
supplied by two Ever-Ready
cells, type R. Small cells are essential
if the small-receiver dimensions are ad-
hered to, but the l|-volt standard cells
are an advantage where more space is
available. With this three-volt filament
supply a 15-ohm resistor is included to
drop the voltage to two for the 30 valve.
Plate supply is 18 volts, from two Ever-
Ready nine-volt C batteries in series.
The placement of the various parts is a
matter for the individual, but if the cir-
cuit is wired up correctly there should
be no trouble.
Tuning is rather unusual, as there is a
certain amount of interaction between
the tuning and reaction condensers. A
little practice soon shows the best ad-
justment. Although this is strictly a
local station receiver, the range can be
extended by using a short external aerial
of about 6ft. If this scheme is tried, a
tapping should be made about 10 turns
from the grid end of the frame aerial for
connection. If an external aerial is
attached directly to the grid end, the
valve will not oscillate at all.
Fig. 2 shows another circuit for a
similar receiver in which grid-leak and
condenser detection is employed. The
writer has not tried this circuit, but it
should prove somewhat better than that
of Fig. 1.
If more headphone volume than is
possible with either circuit is wanted,
and extra A-battery drain is no objec-
tion, it is a simple matter to hitch on
Fig. 2. —An alternative arrangement
another valve as audio amplifier. A type
49 in space-charge connection would do
nicely, without any increase in plate
voltage.
It should be clearly understood that
a broadcast receiving license is needed
for sets of this kind, just as with any
other form of receiver. They are in-
tended only for outdoor use and are not
recommended for use in crowded locali-
ties. A super-regenerator without an
aerial coupling valve is a bad re-radiator,
but it is extremely unlikely that interfer-
ence would be caused with other re-
ceivers in the vicinity with the circuit
of Fig. 1, owing to the fact that low-
plate voltage is used. That of Fig. 2,
however, would be a serious offender if
used with an external aerial, owing to
the higher plate voltage. But both re-
ceivers are purely experimental, and will
appeal mainly to the one-valve-set en-
thusiasts of radio clubs who like to take
very lightweight portables on walking
expeditions.
D.B.K.
Lightning's Trickery.
Of recent weeks in Australia a few
deaths have been caused by lightning,
and in one instance an unearthed radio
aerial appears to have been mainly re-
sponsible.
A lightning discharge takes the path
of least resistance, but observations
made in General Electric’s laboratory
and outlined in “Radio Digest’ show
how long this resistance path may be. In
one case, lightning came down a 90ft.
pine-tree, and ploughed a furrow in the
ground until it reached a pole supporting
telephone wires. It went up the pole,
leaving splintered wood behind, and
finally found its ground after passing
through the telephone wires.
In a case in New Hampshire, U.S.A.,
lightning passed down a tree, travelled
a distance of approximately 50ft. over
the earth to climb another tree, then
jumped about a foot to a lighting circuit,
from which it dissipated itself in light-
ning arresters in the power circuit.
It is because of the possibility of such
pranks that earths for transmission
towers, power stations or lightning-rod
conductors on high buildings are pro-
vided by driven rods, buried wires or
pipes, often covering a considerable area.
Lightning discharges into such a low-re-
sistance system without damage.
There is no need for alarm in the case
of a properly protected radio installation.
If an external aerial system is used, or
for that matter an internal one inside a
roof-top, a good low-resistance earthing
system is a safeguard. It is definitely
proved that a well-earthed lightning-rod
conductor on a high building will pro-
tect the building from serious damage,
and that persons inside such protected
buildings are in about as safe a spot as
it is possible to find during a severe
lightning storm. •
“Thor”: At Tumbulgum, N.S.W.,
lightning struck a tree to which a wire-
less aerial was attached and passed into
the receiver. Taking the path of least
resistance, this should haVe been the end
of its journey, assuming that the receiver
had an earth wire. But the discharge
killed a girl sitting opposite on an old
metal-frame car-seat which had been
converted into a lounge. The metal
structure of the seat may have been the
reason for this unexpected passage of the
discharge to earth. Whatever the cause,
it points to one outstanding fact: The
wireless aerial entering the house pro-
vided the path of entry. Trees are
notorious collectors of lightning dis-
charges, and wherever an aerial is
attached to a tree, and thence to a house,
it should have definite provision for
earthing outside the house. A simple
lightning arrester is a safeguard, but
better still is the fitting of a switch to
change the aerial over direct to earth
when thunderstorms are in the vicinity.
The effect of a direct hit by lightning is
encountered so rarely that the risk is
apt to be overlooked, but it is always
there.
Radio Comment.
“Norwood”: Recent developments in
television indicate a breakaway from
the idea of home entertainment, which
was once the exclusive aim. The other
day the 8.8. C. projected a programme
on to a full-size talkie screen 30 miles
from Alexandra Palace. The vision and
definition were equal to that of ordinary
commercial direct projection. Many
possibilities are opened up ; one that the
present duplication of film and projec-
tion apparatus may be scrapped in the
future, a single central transmission from


6a*Z
Somebody's buying
a Better Radio now/
Milliard
MASTER RADIO
Price, from £1219 ti.
j
Thousands .
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of W.A. . . .
Listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West . . .
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
"R A DIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe ctirect and be sure of
your copy!
safe
m
ifi
m
■£
\ l
The test oi time has
proved the consistent re-
liability of Radiotron valves
throughout the world. Be sure
to always . . .
B E-VALVE Wlfj
■
THE WORLD'S STANDARO
RADIO VALVES
Arrange for our technician
to give you an expert
report on your radio.
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRICS
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
& ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
a television station serving the screens of
any number of picture shows simul-
taneously from a solitary film positive.
Resistors for Air Cells.
It is essential in air-cell receivers to
employ the correct value of resistance
so as to reduce the voltage of the air
cell, which is considerably above two
volts, to a voltage low enough to be
safely applied to the filaments of the
valves, while at the same time not being
so low as to cause loss of emission from
the filaments.
Since the voltage of the air cell drops
steadily but slightly, it is necessary to
arrange that the voltage on the filaments
is maintained between optimum limits
during the life of the cell. The Ever
Ready and A.W. Valve cos. have co-
operated in laboratory tests in order to
determine the optimum values for re-
sistors in this application. The table
below is the result, and it is strongly
recommended that these values of resist-
ances should be employed in air-cell re-
ceivers using valves with the current
drains specified:
Nominal Series Resistor
Drain. (Including Lead Resistance).
600 milliamperes. .595 ohms.
540 „ .685 „
480 „ .81 „
420 „ .96 „
360 „ 1.10 „
While it is possible to vary these resist-
ances to some extent without apparent
effect, the best results from both the air
cell and the valves will be obtained when
these values are used. The resistances
are given in terms of filament current,
and it is only necessary to tabulate the
types of valves used in the receiver, to
insert the filament current of each type,
and to add these together to obtain a
total current which can then be applied
to a table.
The use of these resistors will give
slightly over two volts on the filaments
of the valves for the first portion of the
life of the air cell, remaining between
two and 1.95 volts for a long period. The
voltage is maintained sufficiently high to
give excellent results from all valves in
the receiver until the point is reached at
which the voltage of the air cell begins
to drop very rapidly, beyond which point
no appreciable advantage would be ob-
tained in using a lower resistance value.
ERVC.
Amateur Chatter.
A station heard recently was calling
“CQ VIS” on 40-metre C.W. apparently
with traffic of an urgent nature. The
use of VIS for Sydney, VIM for Mel-
bourne and so on is incorrect for ex-
perimental stations. It is a left-over habit
from earlier days, and is frowned upon
by the R.I. VIS is a commercial call-
sign, and its misuse is liable to lead to
confusion in these crowded times. If a
country or inter-State station wishes to
reach Sydney for reasons urgent or
otherwise, it is better to use a “CQ Syd-
ney” and be on the safe side.
W9FM, leader of the 56mc. DX
seekers in U.S.A., has a suggestion in
connection with the 1938 56mc. contest
organised by R.S.G.B. It is that efforts
should be made for contact between
U.S.A. and Australia on 56mc. on
Saturdays and Sundays in January and
February. He considers that the most
appropriate time would be about 2200
G.M.T. (8 a.m. E.A.T.). This sugges-
tion fits in well with that made by
R.S.G.B. for the same months, and as
little early-morning investigation has yet
been done at this end it may be worth
while putting in some week-end time on
56mc. between 6 a.m. and 8 a.m.
The all-year 56mc. contest is something
worth striving for, but in order to be in
the running entrants will have to keep
at the job. A monthly report of the
station’s 56mc. log must go to R.S.G.B.
headquarters, and it is obvious that
those who take the contest seriously will
have little or no time on the lower fre-
quencies. In Sydney VK2MQ has a
new 56mc. T.R.F. receiver in action with
three stages of tuned R.F., all ganged!
VK2AZ is finishing off a new trans-
mitter, and VK2EM’s new 56mc. station
is also nearing completion.
A well-known VK2 U.H.F. man re-
cently made some interesting discoveries
about the increasingly popular R.C.A.
808 valve. One was used as a doubler
to 56mc., and driven with another 808,
doubling from 20 to 10, the ten- to five-
metre doubler showed a resonance dip
from 250 to 14ma. unloaded with 1250
volts on the plate. Loaded to 55ma. at
1000 volts, it gives a grid current of
lOOma. against a bias of 230 volts in the
grid circuits of a following amplifier.
This gives actually a better plate effi-
ciency from the 808 as a five- than a
ten-metre doubler. The 10-metre doubler
requires 60ma. on the plate at 1100
volts to give the same grid current in the
final.
Maorilander Tom Danks, formerly
ZL3BK, recently arrived in VK, has gone
over to commercial broadcasting, having
A striking B.B.C. study of “Britain’s most popular
broadcaster.” Big Ben at night.
joined the staff of 7BU in Tas. No
doubt spare time, if any, will find him
signing a VK7 call in the near future.
This list of U.S.A. c.c. 56mc. stations
should be worth keeping:
W6OFU, Jerome, Arizona . 56.8mc.
W9CLH, Elgin, Illinois 56.58mc.
W3EZM, Langhorne, Pa 58.32mc.
W9DN (Portable), Illinois 56.7mc.
W9TXU, Chicago, Illinois 56.92mc.
W9UAQ, Oak Park, Illinois 56.58mc.
WBCVQ, Kalamazoo, Mich 58.15mc.
WBCVR, Marshall, Mich 58mc.
W9ZBX, Chicago, Illinois 56.01mc.
W9SO, Milwaukee, Wis 56mc.
VK2NO.
"Radio Digest."
The first issue of “Radio Digest,” a
magazine issued by the publishers of
“Radio,” U.S.A., has arrived in Aus-
tralia. Although a fair amount of topi-
cal material is included, the articles are
primarily of interest to advanced radio
engineers. There are excerpts from such
important publications as “I.R.E. Pro-
ceedings,” “Electronics,” “Communica-
tions,” “Bell System Technical Journal,”
“Bell Laboratories’ Record,” “R.C.A.
Review,” “General Radio Experimenter”
and “Radio Engineering.” Not every
radio technician has access to all these
authorities, and “Radio Digest” fills a
big gap. Subscription is 10s. 4d. (plus
exchange in Australia) for 12 issues, and
the address 7460 Beverly Boulevard, Los
Angeles, California.
56 M.C. DX Tests.
The complete text of the message giv-
ing particulars of a 56mc. DX test, in B.
22/12/’37, has now been received from
N.Z.A.R.T. headquarters. The message
came to N.Z.A.R.T. through ZL4FO,
G2MF and W2IXY, originating at
W9FM, E. H. Conklin, the u.-s.-w.
editor of “Radio”:-
All arrangements for a five-metre DX
test made for period January 15 to Febru-
ary 27, 1938, week-ends only. U.S.A.
stations will listen for first 15 minutes in
every hour and transmit for second 15
minutes. United States will listen week-
ends only between 15 and 16 G.M.T. for
Europe and Africa, and between 21 and
24 G.M.T. for Australia and South
America.
This DX test is apart from the all-year
R.S.G.B. contest, and is the first organ-
ised U.S.A. attempt to secure DX re-
sults from overseas. A letter from
W9FM says that at least two “beacon”
stations will be in action in U.S.A.
Prominent 56mc. stations notified are
CNBMQ, ZS2A, ZSIH, LUIEP, XEIAY,
VK2GU and VK2NO.
"Radio," December, 1937.
Highlights of the current issue of
“Radio” include an informative article
on “Rotary Flat-top An-
tennas” by John D. Kraus
(WBJK) and a discussion on
“Ground Systems for Effi-
ciency” by W9FM. Applica-
tion of military methods in
“Surveying an Antenna Loca-
tion” are shown by W9KWP,
and a useful article deals
with the problem of mobile
power supplies, describing
the making of an A.C. gen-
erator from old motor-car
lighting and charging genera-
tors. Two 808 Radiotrons
are used in a final amplifier
for a quarter-kilowatt input
by W9VHR, and John Rein-
artz (WIQP) shows some
new applications of the fre-
quency meter for amateur
use. There are three com-
plete advanced transmitters
for those contemplating a
rebuild: “R.F. by the Pan-
ful,” by W6SJ ; “Phone and
C.W. 500 Wa t t : s,” b y
W6DHG, and “40 Watts on
Six Bands” by W6OMP.
For the first time, 6L6’s are
applied as Class-B modulator
drivers. “Radio” is published
in Los Angeles, California,
and can be subscribed to,
18s. 6d. annually, through
The Bulletin office, Sydney’
The Question Box.
(1) I notice that several items from broadcast-
ing stations are recordings of events which
took place some hours previously. How is the
recording done ? (2) Part of a battery set is
supplied with current of low voltage and part
with high. Is the high-voltage current passed
through the valves or is it taken up after the
flow passes through them ? (3) Some valves
in a set are covered, others exposed. Why ?
(4) There are many instances of two broadcast-
ing stations working on the same wave-length.
Is it possible for these stations to put out
different programmes at the one time and have
satisfactory reception ? (5) My receiver has the
dial marked in frequency. Is this more im-
portant in tuning than the wave-length ? (6)
/ notice that wave-length increase will always
be followed by a corresponding increase in fre-
quency. Is this necessary or just the practice ?
(7) How does the selector take one desired
wave-length from all the others? —62l.
(1) In the same way that gramophone records
are made, by a , stylus on a master disk, the
electrical impulses energising the stylus being
taken from an amplifier connected to the source
of sound. Another system uses a steel tape
which is magnetised temporarily. (2) The high
voltage and low voltage are entirely separate
in origin. The high voltage is supplied to the
anodes of the valves and the low voltage to
the cathodes (filaments). (3) Valves are
screened in circuits carrying radio-frequency
energy. It is not usually necessary to screen
audio stages or rectifier. The rectifier has the
hardest job in an A.C. receiver, and, particu-
larly if of the glass type, should not be sur-
rounded by a screen. The metal valve rectifier
dissipates heat easily despite the metal struc-
ture. (4) Such stations are widely separated
geographically, and normally do not cause
interference in their own coverage areas. Inter-
ference will be noticed between two such
stations at night or under good daylight con-
ditions where a distant observer is attempting
to tune in one or the other. (5) It is more
correct technically, but the term “wave-length”
suits the layman better. Radio engineers do
not use any other method than frequency
measurement. (6) Incorrect. The higher the
wave-length the lower the frequency, and vice
versa. 200 metres is 1500 kilocycles per second,
and 500 metres is 600 kilocycles per second.
(7) Simplest explanation is that the receiver
is assumed to have a band-width of 10 kilo-
cycles. If the signal circuits are tuned to a
position at zero inside this narrow band, any-
thing skc. either side will be cut off. If a
receiver had a band width of lOOkc. it would
be hopelessly inselective for modern require-
ments, and adjacent stations would overlap.
Philips Slide Rule.
Philips have designed a unique slide
rule for performing quickly many calcu-
lations occurring in radio engineering. It
consists of a fixed and a rotatable disk
with scale divisions, as well as a trans-
parent celluloid disk carrying an indi-
cator line, all mounted in an aluminium
pocket case.
Scales provided are: (1) For multipli-
cation and division ; (2) a quadrate scale ;
(3) for indicating the relation between
frequency and wave-length ; (4) for the
relation between frequency, self-induc-
tion and capacity, and (5) a scale of
decibels for the amplification of voltage
and power.
The advantage of the circular design
is that the disk can always be turned in
the same direction when multiplying or
dividing. Designed for high-frequency
technique, it should be a help to labora-
tory radio engineers.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
: The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from’the inside ■ back • cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Gentleman wants seat in car or truck, Mel-
bourne to Sydney or Brisbane, returning in
two weeks.—BoB9.
Biographical details concerning poetess named
Elsa Barker. —7808.
Information Sought.
What are the major and minor fouls as de-
fined by the N.Y. State Athletic Commission,
under rules in force at the recent Carroll
v. Jannazzo contest in Sydney? —Bl4s.
The major fouls, which incur disqualifica-
tion, are: (1) Hitting an opponent while he is
down or as he is getting up after being down,
(2) using the knee, (3) purposely going down
without being hit, (4) failure to obey the
referee, or performing any physical action, other
than what is considered fair sportsmanlike
boxing, that may injure an opponent. The
minor fouls, for which referees are required to
penalise an offender after one warning has been
given with the loss of all the round in which a
foul is committed, are: (1) Holding an
opponent, or deliberately maintaining a clinch,
(2) hitting with the inside, or butt, of the
hand, the wrist or the elbow, and the so-called
backhand blow, (3) hitting or flicking with the
open glove, (4) wrestling or roughing on the
ropes, (5) striking deliberately on that part of
the body over the kidneys, (6) using the pivot-
blow or rabbit punch, (7) hitting on the break-
away after being ordered to step back, (8) land-
ing a low punch.
V * * *
(1) When and where was Tommy Farr, the
British heavyweight champion, born? (2) When
did he begin boxing? (3) From whom, and
when and where, did he win the heavyweight
championship of Great Britain ? (4) Has Farr
a very good record? —8160.
(1) Tonypandy, Wales, on June 17, 1914.
(2) He began as a flyweight in travelling booths
when 15 years of age. (3) He beat South
African Ben Foord (on a nine-rounds knockout)
for the heavyweight championship of Great
Britain at London on May 27 last. (4) Apart
from his losing fight with Joe Louis for the
world’s heavyweight championship in New
York on August 30 last (reports of this con-
test make out that he was entitled to at least
a draw), Farr has defeated three former
champions of the world —light-heavyweights
Tommy Loughran and Bob Olin, and heavy-
weight Max Baer, and his record is a very good
one.
* * * *
(1) Are Ford cars and tractors imported td
Australia manufactured completely at the Ford
works in England? (2) Number of employees,
British, American and Canadian, at the English
works ? —7703.
(1) Eight- and ten-h.p. English light Ford
car chassis and Fordson tractor sold by the
Ford organisation in Australia are completely
manufactured in England, and enjoy the re-
duced registration fees applicable to English
cars, which call for a 97i per cent. English
content. The bodies of these units are manu-
factured by the Ford Co. of Australia at Gee-
long (Vic.). No parts are of foreign manufac-
ture. The V 8 Ford chassis sold in Australia is
manufactured by the Ford Motor Co. of
Canada, and a very small percentage of the
chassis is of foreign manufacture. These units
qualify for and enjoy the benefits of the
British preferential tariff. Such items of equip-
ment as springs, bumpers, tyres, etc., are pro-
curable from Australian sources. Statistics are
not obtainable in Sydney, but it is understood
that the Dagenham works are almost exclusively
staffed by English workmen.
* * * *
Value of motor-cars, motor-trucks and acces-
sories purchased in Australia in the year ended
June, 1937 ? Amount actually sent out of
Australia to purchase imports of motors, etc. ?
—7803.
No statistics available as to gross total of
purchases. Imports of motor vehicles and
parts into Australia for 1936-37 were valued
at £6,534,873. The number of registrations
of new vehicles in Australia were as follows:
Motor-cars 48,548, commercial vehicles 24,878,
motor-cycles 7406. No details are available in
respect to the value of these new vehicles.
* * * #
(1) Do the grain sailing ships which recently
arrived in South Australia carry passengers?
(2) Have they agents in Sydney? —8001.
(1) Yes. (2) No Sydney agents, but full par-
ticulars can be obtained from Crosby, Mann
and Co., of Adelaide, South Australian agents
for the Erikson line of sailing ships.
* * * *
(1) Has Russia ever been conquered? (2)
Has Denmark ? —Bll3.
(I) Not since the Tartar invasion of 1223
and the subsequent rule of a Tartar dynasty.
Russia has frequently been defeated in war—
notably by the French under Napoleon in
1812; by the Turks and their Allies in 1856;
by Japan in 1905, but never permanently occu-
pied. (2) No. Charles Gustavus of Sweden
came near a conquest in 1658, but the terms of
peace left Denmark an independent State. She
also survived defeat by Prussia in 1864.
* * * *
Have attempts been made to grow New Zea-
land flax (Phormium tenax ) in Australia ? —Bl2O.
Attempts have been made at various times,
and with some success; the plant may be found
in not a few Sydney gardens at the present
time. The idea of Australian cultivation
cropped up as early as 1823, when Capt. Pat-
rick Wood, a settler in Van Diemen’s Land,
wrote to Governor Brisbane about it. Possibly
because the commercial utilities of this plant
are very limited its extensive cultivation in Aus-
tralia has never been undertaken.
* * * *
Has anything been discovered concerning the
cause of the 11 years’ cycle of sunspots?—
8123.
Research on the subject is proceeding, but
very small headway is being made. The only
recent, contribution to a solution of the problem
is the observation of Prof. Sanford, of Palo
Alto,. California, that the planets nearest the
sun—Mercury, Venus and the Earth —appa-
rently influence sunspots to move to the side
of the sun opposite them.
* • *. * *
Is Hungary a monarchy or a republic? —Bl32.
It is officially a kingdom, but has had no
king since 1918. In 1920 Admiral Horthy was
elected Regent, following the short-lived Bolshe-
vik regime of Bela Kun. King-Emperor
Charles, now dead, unsuccessfully attempted
to get back the throne which he abdicated in
'l9lB.
* * * *
What is the lightest solid known to science ?
—8129.
For all practical purposes balsa wood is the
lightest solid commonly obtainable. An Ameri-
can scientist, Dr. Rumbaugh, of the Franklin
Institute, has concentrated the lithium isotope,
the atomic weight of which is six. This sub-
stance, less than a fourth the atomic weight
of aluminium, is the lightest solid yet dis-
covered.
* * * *
Has glass ever been used as a cutting
material ? —8142.
Hitherto the brittle character of the material
has prevented its use in this way, but recent
methods of toughening glass have enabled a
firm in Czechoslovakia to manufacture glass
blades for safety razors.
* * * *
What is the smallest dimension that can
be accurately measured? —8150.
In engineering, even when the greatest pos-
sible precision is essential, the effective limit
is about one ten-thousandth of an inch. But
in the laboratory scientists now use such
instruments as the electric ultramicrometer,
which, it is claimed, can measure displace-
ments as small as one thousand-millionths of
an inch.
* * * *
To what, extent is the German Nazi policy
(National Socialism) socialistic ? How is
Labor treated under the Hitler regime ? How
are wages? —Bl36.
To the extent that it places the welfare of
the State before all sectional interests the
Nazi policy has an element of socialism. But
the Nazi State is a capitalistic one, and, while
it may control them (and under the four-year
plan it aims at much tighter control), does not
operate the means of production, distribution
and exchange. As to Labor matters, the princi-
pal aim of Nazi policy is to avoid friction
and dislocations of industry. Arbitrators with
full powers settle disputes, and workers and
employers have equal representation in the one
big union, the Labor Front, which covers
practically all industry. Non-industrial workers
are represented in the Reich Estate of German
Commerce. Wages, fixed by the State in each
industry, are comparatively low. At a recent
estimate 97 p.c. of the workers were receiving
under £5 per week.
* * * *
(1) Over what area did the Holy Roman
Empire extend, and why has it been said that
it was not holy, Roman, or an Empire? (2)
How did it compare with the Roman Empire ?
—BlO6.
(1) Germany, Austria, Hungary, Bohemia,
Netherlands, Lorraine and, at times, various
parts of Italy, including Rome and Naples. The
holiness of the German conquests was naturally
not universally conceded; the German hold on
Rome was tenuous and often disputed, and at
no time was the authority of the Emperor over
his Empire as safe and as absolute as was the
power of Rome in its palmy days. (2) At the
zenith of Roman power the Empire of the
Caesars included Italy, France, Austria, Hun-
gary, parts of Germany, Syria, Macedonia, parts
of northern Africa and England.
* * * *
(1) Particulars and object of Sir Oliver
Lodge’s “ether and matter” experiment?
(2) What did it prove? —Bl34.
(1) Its object was to ascertain whether there
was any mechanical connection between ether
and matter, or when bodies such as the earth
moved through space they dragged any ether
with them, or whether the motion of matter in
ether was free and without friction. A split
beam of light was reflected in opposite direc-
tions by mirrors three times round a square
between two 3ft. disks which rotated at 6000
r.p.m. If the ether were slightly dragged
round by the rapid motion of the disks one-half
of the beam would have been retarded and the
other half accelerated. (2) That, although the
disks were rotating so fast as to be in danger
of flying to pieces, they exerted no drag upon
the ether at all. The same result was given
by the similar Morley-Mitchelson experiment.
* * * *
(1) How did the treatment of human dis-
eases by wireless waves begin? (2) Description
of the method? —8148.
(1) The discovery that the waves have healing
properties was accidental. It was found that
engineers in some American radio stations de-
veloped big rises in temperature, and this was
shown to be due to the proximity of large
electronic valves. Medical scientists made use
of this fact as a method of creating artificial
fevers, so imitating the device used by Nature
to destroy many infecting agents. (2) The
patient is placed in an electric field, activated
by wireless waves, tuned-in and controlled in
much the same way as in a wireless set. The
wave-length is about 30 metres, with a fre-
quency of 10,000,000 oscillations per second.
The body temperature is kept at a height of
from 103-106 deg. for several hours.
* * * *
(1) How can I obtain taxation clearance pre-
paratory to a voyage to M.L. ? (2) How obtain
passport? (3) Are there steamers running direct
to the South Island from Sydney? —Bo23.
(1) Make application to the Commission for
Taxation in the State in which you reside. (2)
Passports are not required by British subjects
travelling between Australia and M.L. Aliens
must be in possession of a passport, obtainable
from the Consular offices of their country. (3)
There are no steamers running between Syd-
ney and the South Island, but there is a three-
weekly service from Melbourne to South Island
ports. ...
**. * *
. Brief biography of the late «7\ G. Masaryk ?
—7853.
Thomas Garrigue Masaryk, born in Moravia
in 1850, was apprenticed to a blacksmith at
an early age, but owing to his mother’s in-
fluence was withdrawn and educated with a
view to becoming a schoolteacher. In 1878 he
married Charlotte Garrigue, who helped him
in all his work until her death in 1923. After
teaching for some time he was elected an un-
salaried lecturer in philosophy at the Univer-
sity of Vienna. In 1882 he became professor
of philosophy at the new Bohemian University
of Prague. In 1891 he entered Parliament in
Vienna, resigned in 1893, but returned in 1907
as a representative of the Realist party. In
1914, after the outbreak of the war, he fled to
Italy, and from there and ii? Switzerland,
France and England carried on a ceaseless
propaganda on behalf of the national aspira-
tions of the Czechs and Slovaks. He became
professor at King’s College, London. Two
years later, in 1917, he went to Russia and
then to the U.S.A. and secured recognition of
the Czech National Council, of which he was
president. On Nov. 14, 1918, he was elected
President of the newly-formed Czechoslovakian
republic, re-elected in 1920 and again in 1927,
and held the position until his death in Sept.,
1937.
* * * *
(1) For how many years after a British poet’s
death do his copyrights extend ? (2) Are the
poems of Canadian poets, dead or living, free
for selection in Australia ? (3) Are there any
copyright restrictions in Australia on the work
of U.S.A. poets, dead or living ? (4) Is the
Australian copyright law similar to the British
as regards poets ? —7890.
(1) Copyright under the Imperial Copyright
Act of 1911 and various Copyright Acts of
the Dominions extends, in the case of poems,
for the life of an author and a further period
of 50 years. (2) As Canada is a member of
the International Copyright Convention, ajs
well as the whole of the British Empire, copy-
right in poems of Canadian origin extends
throughout all Convention countries, including
Australia, for the period described in (1), and
any use of work in which copyright subsists-
must be authorised. (3) U.S.A. is not a party
to the International Copyright Convention, so,
unless publications of American poets have
been published in a country of the Convention
simultaneously (within 14 days) with the first
American publication, copyright cannot be
claimed in any countries of the Convention.
If these formalities have been observed then
the rights afforded to American authors are
the same as those afforded to citizens of the
country in which the work is first or simul-
taneously published, and consequently through-
out all countries of the Convention. (4) The
Imperial Copyright Act of 1911 forms the
schedule to the Commonwealth Copyright Act
1912, and, with the exception of certain domes-
tic legislation which, in the case of the Com-
monwealth, for instance, provides for registra-
tion (optional) and for summary remedies to be
adopted by registered proprietors, the main
provisions of both Acts are identical.
* * * *
Is it a legal obligation to have leases in N.S.W.
stamped? Has it any advantage? Fees payable
for annual amounts ranging from £5O to £4OO ?
What is the increase for leases for one year,
and thence yearly? What is the basis of in-
crease for a term of years ? Within what period
must a lease be stamped (if to be stamped) ?
Names of firms which supply printed leases,
drawn up to cover farms and residences? —
7977. , , , ,
A lease might be unstamped, but before it
could be produced in court as evidence it
would have to be stamped and a fine paid for
the delay. Where the agreement is for a year
or less and the rent does not exceed £5O the
duty is 2s. 6d. and for every further £5O or
part 2s. 6d. in addition. A lease not stamped
within one month after execution may, however,
be stamped subject to a fine of 20 p.c. on the
amount of duty, or if not stamped within two
months then to a fine of 100 p.c., but not ex-
ceeding £5. You can obtain printed forms
at any city stationers such as Penfold and Co.
* * * *
(1) Is it essential to employ a patent attorney
when making application for a patent ? (2)
Where must patents be lodged? (3) Fee on
lodgment? (4) Where are forms and full par-
ticulars obtainable ? —8092.
(1) No, but it is generally advisable. (2) Must
be lodged by being left at or sent by post to
the Patent Office, Canberra, or at any of the
Patent Sub-Offices in the capital cities. (3)
The fee prescribed on lodgment of an applica-
tion accompanied by a provisional specification
is £l. (4) Forms may be obtained from the
Patent Office or from the Patent Sub-Offices in
each of the capital cities, where also a copy
of the Patents Act and regulations thereunder
may be inspected.
* * * *
(1) When does the Queensland University ex-
pect to establish a School of Medicine? (2)
What Australian Universities already have a
Faculty of Medicine? (3) Length of course?
(4) Fees?—' 7993.
(1) A Faculty of Medicine was established
at the beginning of 1936. (2) Queensland,
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide. (3) Six
years. (4) Particulars are obtainable from the
universities upon application.
* * * *
How did the term “bluestocking” arise? —
8138. , . .
As applied to a woman who has, or anects
to have, literary taste, the term originally
related to certain evening parties given, about
1750, by the London hostesses Mrs. Vesey,
Mrs. Montagu and Mrs. Ord As women of
wit and intellect, they wished to replace the
universal card-playing of the _ day by some
more interesting mental exercise. At these
Catherines the guests dressed very simply ,
fnd one B of them, Benjamin Stillingfleet, habitu-
ally wore common blue worsted, instead ot
the fashionable black silk, stockings. The
coterie was thus christened the Bluestock-
ing Society,” allegedly by Admiral Boscawen
Boswell refers to “Bluestocking Clubs, ( and
Hannah More wrote a poem, Bas Bleu, upon
the subject.
Does Anybody Know?
Agent for the Improved Moorkool Cold Air
Fresh Food Preserver? —8041.
Brief Answers.
C.W.H.: (1) If the fence in question is a
dividing one, half the cost of which has been
paid by your neighbor, it would be necessary
to obtain His sanction to its removal and the
substitution of a brick wall. (2) It would not
be safe to erect the wall as you propose with-
out a proper professional survey of the land
being made, and this would involve cost and
the risk of'your measurement being found in-
correct .... Banked: Pamphlet hasn’t come this
way so far....R.P.: Write to the Registrar,
Aberdeen University, Aberdeen, Scotland
R.A.M!: See the Australian Authors and
Artists’ Handbook, published by Richard
Geraint, 79 Pitt-street, Sydney....l.D.: See
the Peaceful Army, edited by Flora Eldershaw,
and published by Whitcombe and Tombs, 154
Castlereagh-street, Sydney; price 6s. J.G.C.:
Write Secretary, Air Board, Defence Depart-
ment, Melbourne... .J.H.: The batsman is
“not out.”, The decision is governed by Law
33 b: “If. the - ball, whether struck with the
bat or not, lodges in a batsman’s clothing, the
ball" shall become ‘dead’ ”... .R.C.: To be use- .
ful this, drug requires careful preparation and
standardisation, which implies considerable
botanical and chemical training and expensive
apparatus. Better to buy anything of the kind
at the chemist’s R.D.: Get in touch with
the Senior Research Officer, Division of Wood
Technology, Forestry Commission of N.S.W-;
96 Harrington-street, Sydney... .J.F.D. : Ink
has been acted upon and destroyed by chemi-
cals contained in the varnish or other finish of
the wood, and so cannot be restored. Keep the
bat in the dark or. cover with transparent tissue
if it is to be handled by admirers R.V.P.:
The Sydney agents for the “Justrite” carbide
lamp are Atkins, Maclean, Ltd., 301 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney A.C.: (1) Know of no manu-
facturers of vacuum flasks in N. S. Wales. (2)
Sydney University would be able to supply the
information required... .L.J.8.: If the estate
does not exceed £7OOO the duty would be £245.
~.. J.8.8.M.: Prepared whalebone is doubt-
less required, and such is apparently unpro-
curable locally at present owing to the use of
substitutes and synthetic materials in manu-
facture. Ordinary steaming and binding into
position would be the simplest method of bend-
ing or shaping whalebone... .H.J.M.: Burr’s
30 Oil will remove rust from the barrel of a
rifle; obtainable from Cowles and Dunn, 71
King-street, Sydney; Is. 6d. per bottle....
D.H.: She was the daughter of Thomas Rad-
mall H.W.: Consult the Chamber Magis-
trate at Newtown, who will inform you of the
provisions of the statute relating to the licens-
ing of auctioneers... .E.L.1.: Write Secretary
to the Government, Perak, Federated Malay
States J.D.: (1) and (2) Canvass booksellers
or insert an advt. in a literary journal. (3) He
is still alive G.0.G.: Get in touch with the
Workers’ Education Assoc., Edward-street,
Brisbane J.M.C.: Write Mitchell Library,
Sydney, or Prime Minister’s Dept., Canberra.
. ...8.5.R.: See Commonwealth Official Year-
Book, available all public libraries D.P.C.:
Communicate with the Immigration Agent, Box
1448 T, G.P.0., Brisbane... .H.C.: There is no
economical way of removing salt from drink-
ing water J.E.L.: No benefits are payable
except to contributors to the fund. As you
are now in retirement you cannot become a
contributor, and therefore could not receive
any benefit D.W.J.: There is a constant de-
mand for good-quality asbestos in Australia.
Forward samples to J. Hardie, Ltd., Asbestos
House, York-street, Sydney, or Bell’s Asbestos
and Engineering Supplies, Ltd., 226 Sussex-
street, Sydney. Inferior asbestos is of little
or no value... .C.M.G.: There is no complete
list of clan societies published, but there
appears to be no McGillivray Society anywhere
in Australia, and no such society in Scotland.
The MacGillivrays have for centuries been one
of the branches of the great “Clan Chattan
Confederacy” (Mackintosh, Macpherson, etc.).
It is claimed to be a sept of Clan Chattan;
and, as there is a Clan Chattan Association,
you might get in touch with that organisation
and learn as to the activities of Clan McGilliv-
ray. The secretary is A. Macpherson-Grant,
Ascot Gate, Ascot, London... .8.H.M.: The
resultant ash from burnt motor-tyres contains
appreciable quantities of zinc oxide, a sub-
stance poisonous both to plants and to animals.
The ash has no fertilising value. Motor tubes
contain this poison also, and in addition they
usually contain poisonous antimony sulphide.
. ...H.J.K.: The Pleasant Career of a Spend-
thrift, by George Meudell, is obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney; 7s. 6d
R.D.S.: Try the Mitchell Library, Macquarie-
street, Sydney J.F.: (1) The collector value
of a penny of 1797 in best condition is three-
pence and that of a farthing of 1861 is one
penny. Dealers’ prices would be lower. (2)
J. Tyrrell, 281 George-street, Sydney, or Lyster
Ormsby, 78 Hunter-street, Sydney J.S.: Ex-
termination of both the bulldog ant and the
sugar ant is best effected by treating the nest
with carbon bisulphide. Pour about one table-
spoonful down each of the main entrances to
the nest, and then close them up. Carbon bi-
sulphide is inflammable, and lights must be
kept away from it S.H.D.: E. Dixon and
Co., 200 Crown-street, Sydney; Abrams
Brooms and Brushes, John-street, Glebe, Syd-
ney; A. Wyld, 131 Eveleigh-street, Redfern,
Sydney; Excelsior Broom Co., Park-street,
North Fitzroy, N. 7, Melbourne; South Aus-
tralian Brush Co., 167 Flinders-street, Adel-
aide ; and West Australian Brushware Co., Fre-
mantle W.H.: It would scarcely be profit-
able to raise Angora goats in N. S. Wales;
far more profitable to run sheep
J. 5.8.: Australia has 13,900,000 head of
cattle and the United Kingdom (including Eng-
land, Wales, Scotland and Ireland) 8,600,000.
J.D.: The eldest of the brothers should
apply to the Equity Court for administration
of the estate. In Vic., when the estate is
worth more than £5OO, the administrator must
either do the work himself or employ a solici-
tor. Should he attempt to do it himself it
would be necessary for him to advertise his
intention to apply for probate and to file affi-
davits with regard to the death of the de-
ceased, the fact that deceased died intestate
leaving property in Victoria, its value and so
on. Also he would be required to execute an
administration bond to the Chief Justice, the
object being to ensure due collection and dis-
tribution of the assets in the estate. In view
of the many details involved it would be wise
to place the matter in professional hands.
Cannot forecast duty and costs, which would
depend on the ultimate net value of the estate.
....(Many others mailed.)


j
ĵ
Each year strain on your vital organs increases.
More and more you risk Illness and Breakdown
through Kidney, Bladder, Acid, Blood-Pressure,
Rheumatic and Urinary Ills . . .
The cause of that rapid decline in health, comfort and
power which starts towards middle age, and gains speed
increasingly, is, primarily, Kidney-Bladder Acid Weakness.
“Mystery Pains,” Rheumatic Attacks, Nervous, Dizzy
Spells, Swellings and Urinary Irregularities are early signs.
Dire ills can follow if neglect persists. Why take the risk?
Weary Bodies Revive—YOUTH RETURNS ai
Causes of Decline are Conquered by
HARRISON'S PILLS .
Harrison’s Pills safely and surely strengthen Kidneys and
Bladder, Expel Uric Acid, Kill Germs and Revitalise all
the Vital Organs.
This famous Remedy produces surprising improvements in
health and vigour. See the end of limb weariness, of
haggard appearance and despondent outlook. Note the
end of constipation. See a betterment even in your vision.
Feel yourself become a good ten years younger as
Harrison’s Pills end the causes of ageing ills and instil new
power into every nerve and sinew; say good-bye to your
aches, pains, inflammation and stiffness. Feel your step
gain new youthful elasticity; hear your friends remark at
the vast improvement in your spirits and in your bearing.
For the vast majority of people, Harrison’s Pills provide
the most effective method known of prolonging useful,
healthy, pain-free life.
And, in the added
years, who knows what
further astounding
marvels of rejuvenation
science may devise?
Young Men—Middle Aged Men-
and even Very
Old Men-
ALL NEED THIS
Special Help
SO®
o
«#2
pe'
M ■ /V ’ l/' ? p
,<,e Jv & o^i^ n
I<o
0&
0 r °
K' d bif’ ,n
CO'” /
Age
itself
means little
WHEN
Kidney.
Ai.:j -
H ASSOCIATED
Troubles are
. V<*'
: . -s¥w< v-%. YHs
'• ' y t,\ ’ >
■*. ■• .■•. •;
>:*x :
sms
JH
MSIII
Conquered
This Safe, Sure Way
kv-ir
a
m
m
Diaqram shouuinq Tqpes of
Needle-point Uric Acid Crqstals
Like splintered glass, Uric Acid
Crystals tear nerves and muscles.
Tiny painpoints that with every move
make you gasp and limp—weaken
you and spoil life. Rheumatism is
deadly. It starts with kidney-failure.
Cleanse your system of the trouble-
causing acids, crystals and germs;
heal your raw, weakened kidneys by
taking Harrison's Pills. This remedy
effectively reaches the spot. In quick
time sufferers who have failed to get
benefit from other remedies find
Harrison's Pills bring grateful ease.
HARRISON’S PILLS Restore all the
VITAL ORGANS: The one great and undeniably
effective Remedy for thoroughly
reaching and permanently removing the most insidious causes of ageing ills
is that authorised by the distinguished Dr. Harrison, of London, whose signa-
ture appears on every package of genuine Harrison’s Pills.
j
Harrison’s Pills combine tbe most valu-
able known agents for combating the
incidence of Blood Pressure, Glandular
Disorders, Groin Pains and Swellings,
Excessive or Painful TMnation, Bladder
Distress, Rheumatism in Joints, Hands,
Feet, Arms or Legs. Cramp, Arthritis,
Neuritis, Sciatica, Lumbago, etc. Harri-
son’s Pills conquer Kidney, Bladder vind
Blood Germs, Acids, Poisons, Crystals
and Deposits. Action is sure and entirely
SAFE. Puffiness beneath the Eyes,
Pallor, Muddy Skin, Broken Sleep,
Blurred Vision, and Head. Neck and
Shoulder Pains disappear. A new sense
of REAL fitness comes. A NEW LEASE
OP VIGOUR IS GAINED . . .
THIS IS GUARANTEED:
HARRISON’S PILLS bring benefit at
once. Increasingly, they free you from
your weakness and pain. Try a single
package. If it doesn’t help you—money
back! Chemists and Stores sell Harri-
son’s Pills. 3 sizes: 2/-, 3/- and 5/-. If
preferred, order by post from the Aus-
tralian Distributors —Amalgamated Lab-
oratories, Sydney.
HARRISONS PILLS
|ii§
ill
SI;
££Si


Cooler in a “Calcutta”
When it comes to cool headwear, you cannot beat the
Genuine “CALCUTTA” Indian Pith Helmet. Covered
with white linen drill, with red silk lining and self pug-
garee, the “CALCUTTA” is obtainable in Australia only
from Pike Brothers. Price 22/6
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
Street
of Queen
Brisbane
The Man Who Fought Three Champions
For years a prosperous Melbourne
publican, Bill Lang has returned to the
Game as referee. Thirty years ago he
was a promising young heavyweight, and
for two or three subsequent years he
was decidedly the best Australian at the
weight. It was his unique destiny to
meet three world champions, and to put
up good fights with all three.
In Westralia, where he spent some
time, and in his native Melbourne, Lang
(Langfranchi, really) was a footballer
before he turned boxer. It was a poor
preparation for his ring career; foot-
ball develops the wrong muscles and
doesn’t make for speed. Old-timers used
to recommend boat-pulling as a means
of developing a knockout punch, but
never football. They would have whole-
heartedly condemned Ambrose Palmer’s
attempts to combine his devotion to that
pastime with the profession to which he
is returning.
It is almost forgotten, nowadays that
Jack Johnson visited Australia the year
before he took the championship from
Burns. The big negro arrived in Sydney
in January, 1907, under engagement to
James Brennan, a racing man who had
become a boxing promoter. Johnson
wanted to fight Bill Squires, who was
then managed by John Wren; but Wren
had other views for William. .
Visions of honest Squires going to
California and knocking the stuffing out
of Jeffries and then explaining to a
dazzled newspaper press how he had
done it—“l ’it ’im with me ’and on the
jaw,” Bill’s invariable formula on these
occasions—dominated Wren’s mind, to-
gether with entrancing pictures of the
fortune to be cleaned up by both. He
would have saved himself a lot of money
had he let Squires meet Johnson, and
would have been spared the mental agony
which lacerated him and the company
of Australian boxing reporters when
there arrived from Colma, California, in
July, 1907, the laconic message “Burns,
one round.”
Unable to get Squires, Brennan
matched his coon with another, Peter
Felix, at Sydney. The difference be-
tween the two men was astonishing.
Felix looked half a head taller, but his
shoulder and arm development was not
in the same class as that of Johnson,
whose arms and shoulders were of the
size and glossiness of a pure-bred Clydes-
dale’s hind legs. Felix was as black as
a parson’s new hat. Johnson was brown.
The black man gazed fixedly at those
gigantic brown arms and shoulders, and
assumed a worried expression. He com-
menced the scrap with his tail most obvi-
ously between his legs. At the first col-
lision, he bumped Johnson’s left with
his stomach and fell over it, describing a
half-somersault. Up again, he tried to
make use of his long reach, and suc-
ceeded in tapping Johnson’s chest and
gloves. Johnson closed in, Felix
smothered, and Johnson, with a playful
right, sent him to the boards. Up once
more, Petah touched Johnson on the
forehead with the tip of his glove, and
the brown man, smiling, let a left upper-
cut go as Felix came in a trifle close. It
snicked Felix on the point and down he
went. Then he turned over on his
stomach, and was counted out. He stag-
gered to his feet amidst a storm of hoots
and looked round the howling house with
the pathetic expression of a motherless
foal.
In spite of this exhibition of Johnson’s
quality, Lang accepted a match with him
and gave him a real fight. It took place
on the Richmond (Vic.) racecourse, and
20,000 people rolled up and stood in
pelting rain, which ran down inside the
clothing and fairly spouted from the
boots. The black man was taller and a
stone heavier than the white, and as he
shuffled flatfooted along the wet canvas
it was plain even to the mugs in the
crowd that the conditions favored him.
When the disturbance started Lang
was a mass of nerves. A few stiff
punches steadied him in more ways than
one, and the second and third rounds
saw him put up a vigorous fight. But
thus early in the piece the experienced
Johnson was clearly his master. The
negro smote him where and when he
pleased—jolted him on the ribs and
uppercut him repeatedly on the jaw.
“Provide against Johnson’s uppercut,
and you got him buffaloed,” Jeffries had
said. Lang couldn’t provide . against it,
nor could Jeffries when his time came.
LANG PUTS PELKEY ON THE
FLOOR.
Novice as he was, the Melbourne man
was dead game. For six solid bounds
he took his punishment stoically, vainly
hoping for a chance to knock out his
cleverer and bigger opponent. In the
ninth round his seconds threw in the
towel. As he sat disconsolate in his
corner Johnson patted him cordially on
the back. Ever afterwards the negro
spoke with great respect of Lang.
Johnson was the champion to come.
Lang fought the actual champion,
Tommy Burns, at Melbourne in Sep-
tember, 1908, a fortnight after Burns had
slugged out Bill Squires for the third
time.
The affair had been arranged to begin
at 11 o’clock in the morning. At 11.45
a smiling stage manager announced that
Mr. Burns had unfortunately left an
armband or something at Menzies Hotel,
but was expecting it to arrive at any
moment. At 11.50, Lang was permitted
by the management to enter the ring.
There he had to wait, cooling his heels
and reflecting on his insignificance in the
eyes of the mighty Mclntosh, before the
star consented to appear on the stage.
Then Mr. Burns imposed more strain on
Lang’s anxiety by dawdling and putting
on airs, until at last there wasn’t an Aus-
tralian in the crowd who didn’t wish
from the bottom of his heart that the
modest, unassuming fellow in the oppo-
site corner would knock Tommy’s in-
flated head off.
It was not to be. All the fighting
was forced by the bull-necked, heavy-
shouldered, thick-waisted Burns. The
more elegantly proportioned Australian
dodged round on the defensive, as a rule,
and was seen to be at a great disadvan-
tage at close quarters, where it was a case
of punch-as-punch-can.
But in the second round Lang gave
the champion a dreadful shock. He
shook himself free, and with a beauti-
fully-timed left hook on the chin knocked
the Canadian clean off his feet. It was
no fluke punch, nor was Burns unlucky
in getting it as he did. On the contrary,
he was lucky in falling easily from a blow
which otherwise would have downed him
very uneasily. Both his feet were off the
ground at the instant that his chin re-
ceived the shock.
Burns recovered quickly, and in six
rounds Lang was settled. In those days
Tommy knew too much for Bill.
At Sydney 19 months later Lang
showed in a return match that he had
learned a lot. Burns on that occasion
weighed 12st. 131 b., a stone more than
when he had lost his title to Johnson,
and Lang was 71b. heavier. Burns opened
the battle by dancing a jig round his
taller adversary. He jigged and ducked
and closed the round without having
made a solitary attack. But when he
came up again he began to ply busy
fists, and though he continued to skirl
round he bashed and roughed like 17
devils. For nine solid rounds he piled
up points, smashing Lang repeatedly and
getting little in return.
The tenth saw a change. Lang got
Burns on the nose, uppercut him twice
and landed the left heavily on the side of
the face. He came in to do more dam-
age, but ,a wallop on the jaw sent him
back. During the eleventh, twelfth and
thirteenth rounds the punishment re-
ceived by Burns exceeded what he gave,
and in the fourteenth Lang went for him
savagely, banging him on the jaw three
times. The Australian slowed down in
the fifteenth. He cut loose once more
in the sixteenth, doing considerable
damage. At one time Bums was groggy.
In the twentieth and last round Burns
made a supreme effort, but Lang sur-
vived.
When the gong soupded Mclntosh,
who was referee, remarked “Burns wins.”
Then people howled that Lang had been
robbed, and called upon their Maker
to understand that they would attend the
Stadium no more. No doubt Mclntosh
was influenced by the fact that Burns
had done most of the fighting and sup-
plied most of the entertainment. Had
Lang gone after Burns he would prob-
ably have won, for fye was the stronger
man, had the longer reach and could
be as quick as lightning when he liked.
Burns thought faster, and that was what
won him the fight.
Lang had in the meantime knocked
out Bob Fitzsimmons, the third cham-
pion with whom he exchanged blows, at
Sydney on Boxing Day, 1909. Burns
backed Fitz. for that fight, and the loss
of his money and of his reputation as
a picker rankled. Fitz. himself bore no
malice. When revived in his corner he
testified that Lang had fought “a most
gentlemanly fight.” Lang, for his part,
rushed over to see that the old man was
all right, went away quietly to his dress-
ing-room, called on Fitzsimmons in his,
and invited the ancient to join him in
a glass of champagne. Which Fitz. did.
After the second encounter with Burns
Lang went abroad. He boxed a no-
decision six-rounder with the gigantic
A! Kaufmann, who had stood up to
Johnson for 15 rounds—the limit—and
Bill was at the ringside at Reno when
Johnson licked Jeffries. He was one of
a band of champions, present and past,
introduced to the vast crowd. A London
“Times” man, commenting on that as-
sembly of celebrities, dryly remarked
that only one of them had a Presence. It
wasn’t Bill, though Bill was by no means
a bad-looking fellow; it was John L.
Sullivan.
Going to London, Lang stopped Jack
Burns, another Canadian, in 12 rounds,
and lost in six rounds to Sam Langford.
Sam was getting all over him when Lang
came to light with a clean knock-down
punch. A bit dazed before he delivered
it, and all excitement afterwards, he
struck at the black shape before Sam was
actually on his feet, and was disqualified.
Lang had some exciting tussles with
Bill Squires, for whom he was always
too good; but the most thrilling fight
of his career was fought towards the
close of it —on April 5, 1914. His op-
ponent was Arthur Pelkey, one of the
White Hopes.
Lang displayed a fathom of himself
when he stood up in the ring, and Pelkey
was an inch longer. Lang had a reach of
11 \ inches, Pelkey one of 78 inches.
Lang’s normal chest measurement was
42 inches, Pelkey’s 43 inches ; and there
was 13st. 131 b. of Lang, 14st. 81b. of
Pelkey.
Pelkey assumed the offensive, and tried
to bury his right in Lang’s interior. As


PAINS ALL OVER
HIS BODY
Kruschen Made Him Feel
a New Man
Rheumatism is an insidious complaint' that
strikes without warning. It attacks an arm or
a leg, and frequently the pains spread to all
parts of the body, unless something is done to
check them. That was the experience of this
man, who had rheumatism so badly that at
times he was prevented from working.
“About 10 months ago,” he writes, “I suf-
fered terribly with rheumatism and neuritis.
The pains were all over my body, and some
days I could not even get up from bed to go
to work. A friend visited me and suggested
that I should try Kruschen Salts. I did so, the
result being that the pains seemed to gradu-
ally disappear. I have been going to work
ever since without a break, thanks to Kruschen
Salts, and I feel a new man.” —A.R.
Rheumatic conditions are the result of an
excess of uric acid in the body. Two of the
ingredients of Kruschen Salts have the power of
dissolving uric-acid crystals. Other ingredients
assist Nature to expel these dissolved crystals
through the natural channels.
Take one minute now to sign
an application for life assur-
ance with the Equitable Pro-
bate and General Insurance
Co., Ltd. You will save your
wife and family many years
of hardship should you be
taken from them.
BE PROTECTED
EQUITABLE
PROBATE AND
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD
Head Office —371-373 Queen St.. Brisbane.
Wingello Mouse, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS. General Manager.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL .. £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
ĵ
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
“AWATEA”
SYDNtY
AUCKLAND
(UcLCINGTO
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2i DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc. .
The "Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
he thwacked it home he carefully eluded
Lang’s left lead. A couple of Pelkey
punches caught Lang on the top-piece,
and Pelkey was feeling like a country
house, with a park and a grouse moor,
when Lang drove a straight left, and
Pelkey’s head shot right back.
The opening of the second round saw
Pelkey get all over Lang; but the Aus-
tralian kept plugging away with a straight
left, and somehow Pelkey kept pushing
his nose against it, to the detriment of
that organ. In the third, a right smash
to the head dazed Lang, and when he
realised the fact Pelkey sent along a
blizzard of right and left swings. The
floor rose up and supported Lang. At
“eight” he scrambled up, and Pelkey
rushed in with all his heart and soul and
both fists. Again the floor rose up and
SYDNEY STADIUM PERSONALITIES
IN ITS GREAT DAYS.
Fred Flowers, one of Holman’s Ministers
and afterwards President of the Leg.
Council; Dick Meagher, the Speaker,
and Hugh D. Mclntosh.
supported Lang. But he was full of
sand, and he hit Pelkey on the nose and
managed to keep on his feet till the gong
brought respite.
The way Lang brightened up during the
minute’s spell was wonderful. Pelkey,
rushing in to finish him, was met again
and again with that straight left till he
began to grow dizzy. Just on time, Lang
swung a right that made Pelkey feel
dizzier still.
Thereafter it was mostly heavy but slow
hitting. The luck changed. They bat-
tered away at one another with varying
success, but with Pelkey slowly getting
the better of it, and occasionally con-
necting with heavy ones which shook
Lang to his foundations. In the eighth
round Lang weathered a cyclone of
uppercuts that would have laid out a
mule.
In the eleventh, Lang’s straight left
inflicted a lot of damage on Pelkey’s
countenance, but at last the Canadian
got past it, and a terrific right jolt had
the Australian in a bad way. With a
right to the body and a left to the head,
Lang turned the tide.
Pelkey began to tire; in fact, he be-
came deadly slow. But he was so far
ahead that only a knockout could bring
victory to the weary Bill. Lang tried
desperately for it.
In the seventeenth, Pelkey was in full
flight, with Lang crowding after
him. The same scenes were witnessed in
the eighteenth. In that
round Lang all but got his
man, but the gong came
to the rescue.
Half-way through the
nineteenth, Pelkey pulled
traces of himself together
and attacked with a left
swing. Lang countered
with the right, landing
fair on the chin. Pelkey’s
hands dropped, his knees
resigned and he went down
in a heap like baggy pants.
He struggled up at “eight.” Lang rushed
at him and smote good and hard. Then
Pelkey was out, and Lang was receiving
the best ovation of all his career.
Lang’s courage was the outstanding
feature of the scrap. The amount of
punishment he received was tremendous.'
Over and over again he was all but done,
and only by sheer will power did he
force his legs to resume their job and
his sagging fists to strike.
Seen after the fight, a rub-down and a
rest, Lang smiled cheerfully across a
glass of champagne while he held court
amidst a throng of admirers. He was
thoroughly pleased with himself, as he
had good reason to be. His showing was
one of the most telling bits of evidence
as to the value of a straight left ever
seen at the Stadium.
A MIXED GRILL.
Last year the Privy Council announced
that it would grant leave to appeal from
Australian High Court judgments only
in cases of urgent public importance. It
has nevertheless granted leave to a man
who was expelled from the Rosehill race-
course, and who sued the club for £5OOO
damages, claiming that he had bought a
ticket, and that the ejection was equiva-
lent to assault. It seems odd that the
Judicial Committee should let this matter
go to a third appeal when it refused to
hear the group of transport cases which
affect the interests of whole border
communities and the rights of the entire
Australian people under Section 92.
* * * *
Three years ago the U.A.P.-C.P. Gov-
ernment at Sydney and the Labor Gov-
ernment at Brisbane went to the country
together, and, because of Lang, were on
unusually cordial terms. Circumstances
will prevent their being as friendly next
time. Challenged to defend his Govern-
ment’s maintenance of high unemployed-
relief taxation when the Sydney Govern-
ment has reduced its corresponding im-
post, Forgan Smith says he is not going
to imitate “a Government which pays
the whole of the collections into revenue
and spends only half for relief purposes,
calling upon loan funds to keep down
relief tax”; in effect, “charging the bill
to posterity.” It is true enough, but this
is one of the occasions on which the
truth hurts.
* * * *
“Bundeena”: There is only one sure
method of protecting surfers from shark
attacks, and that is to see that they bathe
inside sharkproof enclosures. Meshing
is meeting with fair success off Sydney
beaches; but if it accounted for a thou-
sand of the brutes weekly the danger
would only be slightly diminished. A
shark can have a satisfying meal of
surfer at noon and two hours later be
telling the missus about it 20 miles away.
* * * *
“N.M.”: One of the interesting produc-
tions scheduled on the official sesquicen-
tenary programme is Eris O’Brien’s play
“The Hostage.” This deals with the early
days of the Catholic Church in Sydney,
and its drama centres in what is now the
site of St. Patrick’s on Church Hill.
One of the descendants of the original
Davis family, in whose home on the hill
Catholics gathered to worship (before
they had a church, will have a part, and
producer John Gould hopes that many
other pioneer families will be represented.
The last act is in blank verse, flowing of
line and noble of sentiment. Rehearsals,
appropriately enough, are in full swing
almost on the very spot where th
original Davis home stood.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: Critics of the N.T. Com-
mission’s proposal to make Darwin a
free port have overlooked the fact that
Queensland in its protectionist days
opened one on its own at Port Albany on
the n.-e. extremity of Cape York Penin-
sula. That was in 1866, and the Act
of Parliament constituting the new port
stated that the idea was to encourage
settlement in those parts. The experi-
ment lasted 10 years.
$ ♦ ♦
In Tasmania, W. F. Truscott has been
added to the list of blind holders of
University degrees. Truscott, who began
to study while working in the factory of
the Tas. Blind, Deaf and Dumb Society,
has become a B.A. and has completed
two-thirds of the teachers’ training
course.


oA CLUSTER of BEES
by
TARLTON RAYMENT, F.E.S.
With Introduction by Professor E. F. Phillips, D.Ph.,
Cornell University, U.S.A.
A remarkable monograph of 750 pages in which
every genus of Australian Bee is delineated in a
manner never before attempted. The book contains
65 plates, which have necessitated hundreds of
microscopical dissections, and 150 text figures. Over
new species are described.
Specimen Plate from “A Cluster of Bees.”
STRUCTURAL DETAILS OF MEROGLOSSA.
,<££ gc>
J &
m
v
ITpplton Pavme
ixD
An authoritative work on the many hundreds of
bees indigenous to Australia which no library,
museum or nature-lover can afford to overlook.
Only a limited edition, beautifully bound.
I
PRICE, plus 6d. postage.
Post This Order Form To-day.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward to me cop of “A Cluster of
Bees," by Tarlton Rayment, for which l enclose £.......
NAME
ADDRESS
Parents! Give Your Girl a Practical Education! She Can Study at Home.
Distance Is No Bar.
Commercial Art
Showcard Ticket Writing
Mail Order
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Nurses’ Educational
Architectural Work
Advertisement Writing
Dress Cutting
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Accountancy
Book-keeping
Shorthand
Typewriting
Correspondent
Salesmanship
University Exams.
Window Dressing
Gut, and Mail This Coupon to
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGES,
96-100 Russell St.. Melbourne, or 70 Pitt St., Sydney.
CUT HERE
I am interested in
My N ame
Address ■ ..
S.B. No. 6
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to, the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
Sol: A spark of humor is its one redeeming
quality.... Babbling Brook: The whole story
of an honorable profession in two lines:
A “babbling brook’’ —a slang term for a cook;
Other names given him would fill a book.
. ...J.H.: As privately amusing as ever; pity
you just miss print... .D.G.: What makes you
think your poem would cheer him up?
N.C.: No, “Home Links” wasn’t used, and
the latest doesn’t pass muster, either...-J.V.:
You have the idea, but your verse just jingles
along M.L.8.: Don’t care for “Irishman
and German.” Send along some more
Patmak: Has a fairish line here and there,
but it’s strained as a whole J.E.: Runs
chattily along, but doesn’t say very much
J. 8.: In future please enclose two aspirins with
poems in praise of whisky and soda
B. : Well, at least there’s feeling in it,
though the verse is as rough as the Bight
T.R.: Something in “Curlews,” but the verse
lets it down Ora B.: Date, page and pen-
name will do when claiming. But you’ll need
to do better than “Beery Bill’s Device”
H.W.C.: “Hobart” fails to overcome the bane
of blank-verse effort —monotony. Others are
knocked out by such lines as this of raindrops:
They drip with wicked glee down sailors’ necks.
J.A.: Has its moments, but miles too long
for U5....A.E.C.: Doesn’t strike us as a very
natural monologue... .C.E.D.: Idea lurking in
it, but it makes wooden reading... .Ensign:
“Celebrations” poem reads like an omen of a
trying year ahead G.S.: Afraid you’ve a lot
to learn about yarn-spinning A.F.D.: The
Scotchmen arrived on New Year’s Eve; we
read the first page—then we went out for a
drink L.S.: So that’s what you do with
spare time “down on the farm”... .R. 0.: The
handsome young man who donned his skates
and speeded off to rescue the gal ran into a
patch of thin ice S.S.: And your “bronzed
giant” surfing hero was dumped T.C.: “The
Certainty” never left the barrier E.L.C.:
You think our “one typically Australian paper
would publish this story.” You’re right;
we had it, word for word, a couple of years
back... .W.J.H.: Now think of a plot
C. : We don’t mind manuscripts being
handwritten provided they’re in ink and are
legible; that one was neither J.R.: We
lost track of half the characters before tne
third page... .F.P.: Con Drew has cornered
the market for that sort of thing.. .H.M.T.:
Too morbid for us C.M.: It might make a
par 8.C.: Neat little sketch, bur it’s better
suited to a woman’s paper R.A.S.: Doesn’t
rise above jingle P.D.M.: Not up; but we
want bush vefse that is P.R.D.: Don’t care
for what it’s all about, but it has a genuine
versifier’s ring in it... .Grit: All too faint....
T.E.Mc.: Come in and get it off your chest:
My heart it is broken entirely,
For the voice of the singer is still,
And now we have nothing but crooners,
Who make me quite blue and so ill.
With their booing and cooing and mewing
No tomcat or cow can compare;
Some call it mu-sie.
And, faith, I agree with them there,
For sure it would sicken the Muses —
The poor girls would sure lose their hair.
May these crooners all soon go to Hades
And cease from polluting the air.
K.V.R.: That verse stutters... .T.L.E.:
Your ode reads like prose, and very poor prose
at that C.L.G. :
If only I could find some far-flung isle,
Untouched, unknown by the world.
If only R.G.T.: Not bad verse, but too
heavy for these pages N.N.T.: So the dawn
still “flashes like a blazing sabre over the roll-
ing purple hills” and “night draws a spangled
veil over the harshness of the day” out your
way C.L.N.: Painfully rhymed platitudes.
... .K.P.N.: “The Coming of Patrick McPhee”
meant nothing to us... .T.L.H.: So “he hied
himself to the station and took a train to the
remote village of Bungdalama.” Well, why
didn’t he stay there? P.S.E.: “In Three
Parts” fell to pieces in the middle... .P.L.A.:
You clamber awkwardly over improbable situa-
tions L.D.C.: “He crept stealthily along the
passage. A shot! Toppling over the railing
he fell and sprawled grotesquely at the foot
of the stairs. The villain peered from behind
the curtain.” Left peering N.D.S.: That’s
the worst of this year’s plague of New Year
yarns C.F.C.: We’re not a correspondence
school; you had best study our style until
you get an idea of what we want T.D.K.:
You show promise, but stick to subjects with
which you are familiar 1.M.P.: Your friends
may have liked the yarn, but we don’t
G.8.T.: Too much material there for a short
story... .C.M.Y.: Horrible S.M.S.: If you
dig that hole much deeper it’ll fall in on top
of you M.R.P.: It’s the skeleton of a
yarn, but it needs some meat on the bones
P.E.T.: “Thoroughbred” couldn’t hurdle the
w.p.b 8.L.N.: Your “rosy little effort”
was born to blush unseen.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS,
L.P.: From what children’s comic did you
lift that pair? J.L.: Chap with wooden
leg found a resting-place in the w.p.b
D.S.: That wheeze was born at the time of the
construction of the overland telegraph line
J.C.: Gave that drill-sergeant his marching
orders 20 years ago P.T.: Have you ever
seen an abo.? S.P.: A fine sheet of
drawing paper spoilt P.G.: One thing:
the sun is north-east but the shadows are fall-
ing to the south-east R.M.D.: Looks as if
you used Jacobean table legs as models
P.Y.: Tired of seeing that drunk searching for
his likeness in a hairbrush A. 8.: You can
draw a double bed, but you made a hash when
you tried its occupants... .A.L.W.: Border of
holly-leaves looked seasonal... .E.N.: Try us
after that five years’ course C.F.: The ancient
might pass for an Australian swagman in a
Czechoslovakian newspaper, but not here
R.W.: Go back to the slate and slate pencil....
M.F.: Neat, and it shows promise C. 8.:
After sitting for an hour with a wet towel round
our head we decided that the sketch had some-
thing to do with the Spanish situation... .OJ.:
You belong to the hit-or-miss school E.S.H.:
Take away the gent, with the gout and the lady
with a goitre... .C.S.: Cross hatching is ugly,
and the perspective is out of gear... .8.L.:
Spoonerisms can rarely be illustrated G.G.:
Scorfield anticipated you years ago F.T.M.:
We know scores of ten-year-olds who could
knock that drawing into a cocked hat... .L.A.:
Where have you been that you don’t know
that Parkhill is out? ... .G.H.: A Sunday-school
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment 1 of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
magazine might consider the jest, but no one
would look twice at the drawing... .H.D.: You
should dp well when you grow out of that
freakish style.. . .R.C.T.D.: That eyesore
ruined an otherwise happy day....J.F.: Con-
tains more promise than most first efforts we
have seen lately.
“Mataranka”: Last time there was a
world war inlanders came out of
it with flying colors, providing, in par-
ticular, a large quota of snipers from
among kangaroo- and dingo-shooters. In
the next scrap it looks as if we spinifex-
eaters are going to live up to our reputa-
tion. Take Alice Springs. There are
about 300 residents, male and female,
and there are 75 active members of the
rifle club, which three Diggers started.
If any big city in Australia can match
that proportion, I’ll shout its Lord Mayor
a pint.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Still more competition for
Australian pearlers is developing in
the Arafura Sea. By next season 200
Japanese vessels will be operating off the
Australian coast, and lately 20 Dutch
boats have turned up, to the surprise of
the crew of the Larrakia, who fell in
with some of them between the King
River and Elcho Island, off Arnhem
Land. One of them had been there for
2\ months without contact with the
world. One of the Larrakia’s greatest
difficulties in locating vessels inside the
three-mile limit is the natives’ friendli-
ness towards the invaders. So soon as
the patrol boat appears signal fires go
up along the coastline. This sort of
thing will never be stopped until there
are a road across Arnhem Land and a
regular coastguard system.


j
A FEW OF MANY
WHO IN 1937 PRE-
PARED TO MEET
THE CHALLENGE.
sth July, 1937. —“Naturally, there
have been a few occasions when certain
episodes have occurred to upset, tem-
porarily, the smoothness of life, but J
called Pelmanism into action and it
worked.’’
I.oth July, 1937. —“I am building a
Scheme of Life on Pelman lines. I have
no doubt that this Scheme will be
challenged innumerable times, but 1 am
quite confident that it will survive and
be strengthened as time goes on.”
29th July, 1937.—“ My appointment,
although in part the reward for much
hard work, is also to a very great ex-
tent a tribute to the excellence of your
Training, since it taught me how to get
the most out of that work, and I consider
myself very much in your debt.”
30th July, 1937. —I have just learner
that I have passed my final exams, with
three credits and one pass. This is the
best I have done so far.”
22nd February, 1937. —“At my em
ployment, I find that I am being gradu-
ally given more responsibility—more
trustworthy duties to carry out.”
22nd February, 1937.—“1 now' find no
difficulty in giving a quarter of an hour’s
debate in a firm voice, and with very
few notes.”
3rd November, 1937. —“When I do have
something to worry about I do not indulge
in dull, negative thinking, but deal with
it by reasoning and by constructive re-
flection.”
17th October, 1937.—“1 passed the
Police Entrance examination.”
Bth October, 1937.—“ Doing the Course
has raised my abilities in my dad’s eyes
a 100 per cent.”
13th October, 1937. —“It has taught
me to respect my job. I have a greater
respect for money and am better off
financially than I was before taking up
the Course.”
24th October, 1937.—“! do not fee)
nervous of my superiors and consequently
am a better worker.”
October, 1937. —“I lacked the know-
ledge of how to apply my will power to
obtain the best results. To me, this
lesson has been worth the whole cosi
of your tuition. I feel very grateful.”
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
The Challenge
of 1938
DURING the past thirty years application for a free copy of “The Efficient
Mind” has proved the turning point in the lives of thousands of men
and women in Australia and New Zealand.
An inclination, however slight, to know more about the training of the
Mental Powers and the extending of the Personality is sufficient reason for
getting a <;opy of “The Efficient Mind.” Copies are free, and application
personally or by letter places the applicant under no obligation whatever. We
have no outdoor representatives, and having read “The Efficient Mind” the
enquirer is free to approach us again or to let the matter drop.
This does not preclude the applicant,
again without obligation, from telling us
his needs or intentions in an interview
or by letter. Many people do this, and
our response is complete and helpful.
We want people to know, before enrol-
ling for the Pelman Course, as much
as we can tell them about it.
“The Efficient Mind” is not a mere
catalogue. It is a real book of 76 pages
containing approximately 25,000 words.
It has considerable literary value and
is a good example of ordered arrange-
ment, proper organisation of material
and objective thinking.
If the reader wishes to know what is
said about Pelmanism by a world's
notability or by an Australian or New
Zealand Pelmanist, or about the com-
ponents of concentration, the function
of memory, the development of the
will, the value of social contacts, or the
place of courage and self-confidence in
a happy and successful life, he can find
it as quickly and as easily in “The
Efficient Mind” as he will find a familiar
name in a Telephone Directory.
To ihose readers who are already
Pelmanists we say that each challenge
during 1938 to his or her scheme of
living will be an opportunity for the
display of courage and resource, for the
toughening of the moral fibre and for
an increase in strength and power.
To those who are not Pelmanists,
whether they have yet read “The
Efficient Mind” or not, we say that this
notice is itself a friendly challenge to
decision and action. The former are in
possession of the material for coming
to a decision. The latter can get it by
obtaining a copy of “The Efficient
Mind.” To do so they can use the
coupon in this announcement, write
fully, call in, or telephone MU2355.
The Pelman Institute
for the scientific development of
Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (cnr. Market St.)> Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide organisation of 40
years’ standing. Its headquarters are in London. The
Institute in Melbourne has been established for 30 years.
There are over half a million world Pelmanists, of whom
over 39,000 have enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
International awards to the Pelman Institute include:
Liege 1930, Nancy 1932, Geneva 1933 and Paris 1933.
“Efficient
Mind,”
Please.
ĵ
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
j
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy o c Bulletin every
week for one year so tnat 1 do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
&
* " o°
•O* J> ,
y(y>
<$
v^r' 4
•s£&%* *
v>-
<* 4 dts »\V®
vs s
K * e Vv v °
e V AA 6^
\o S S^A C '
c V 6>
rvv'^V
,\\>° v


!•»
■
m.
m
'
11
OHM
v ■' ;v
„
ssSS
m
:
m i
s&s
I
I
Mi
MM;
I
i
m
Yy>/-:
,
•^V'-
MSS
»Vv^
3 OTj-
a*-
C/^
* .%• • ' *%*•••
* •%
5&?
m
jf/:v. */••:;••; v ••
"4<*~
.T.
"H T*i
**
?v
tgSj&f *.*.•/
3&4
xv
/
*•/
*6
*£*/
✓
■en
ft*
3#
l-M?
///
«S. >&£
V . C/ ? c 'o. 'vi,. /
<«*%»*//
The original GILBEY process established
the reputation of GILBEY’S GIN over
three generations ago.
That same exclusive process is used
throughout the Gilbey Distilleries in
England, Canada, America and Australia.
No matter where you drink it, GILBEY’S
is the same in purity and quality the
world over.
GILBEY’S, the world-famous gin, now
costs no more than ordinary gins.
NOW AT THE NEW
REDUCED PRICES
£umt JoalQLw, Jay—
