

m
k
9
4
< ...
#
f
"■ JK
M
■vfe«
, ;v
m
v ,
*1
»
n
i
§
s
SIX-20 BROWNIES
What more seasonable
thought than one of
these smart modern-
istic Brownies! That
they’re better picture-
makers than ever goes
without saving. From
14/6
KoJI2
f x m
FINEST VALUES!
Six-20 and Six-16
Kodak Juniors— the
cameras of distinc-
tion. An invest-
ment that "ill re-
pay hundredfold in
clear bright snaps.
See them. From
1®
fii
FREE!
New Book-
let— “SUC-
CESS WITH
YOUR
PICTURES”
Write for
your copy.
' KODAK
the Christmas Gift
that always “clicks”!
Welcomed by young and
old as a happy promise
of thousands of fine snap-
shots . . . from Christmas
morning onwards, a year-
round reminder of your
thoughtfulness.
Baby Brownie, 6/-
Folding-style Kodaks from 12/6
Miniature Kodaks from £B/107-
Kodak Home Movies from £ll/19/6
Write for the Kodak Gift Booklet .
Of all Kodak Dealers and KODAK (Aus-
tralasia) PTY., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Launceston, Toowoomba, Townsville,
Rockhampton, Ballarat, Newcastle. And KODAK NEW
ZEALAND, LIMITED, Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin. Christ
church.
The Bulletin
Limerick A/o. 6: The Prizewinners
Vol. 59.—N0. 3066.
Wednesday, November 16, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
BRITAIN AND GERMANY.
Being concerned with lasting national and inter-
national issues, Sir Edward Grigg’s Britain Looks at
Germany (Nicholson and Watson), written and pub-
lished before the September crisis, is more worth
reading to-day than ever. Nothing the British M.P.
author had to say in advance has been upset by
events, which, instead, have considerably strength-
ened his argument. He is not out to nail a few more
palings to the barriers of misunderstanding between
the two countries, but neither is he blind to the need
for Britain to strengthen itself, in defence and gener-
ally as a national force.
We do not want either to exercise or to suffer
domination; and we must therefore have a balance in
Europe which gives security to all. The Germans will
respect us for taking their measure correctly, even
though they find us unwilling to enthrone them as
the arbiters of European civilisation; but they will
despise our sloth.
There are, he argues, two conditions, and two
only, on which Britain can maintain a friendly and
honorable relation “with the other great branch of
the Teutonic race.”
The first of them is that we should appreciate Ger-
many’s need of wider political and economic scope and
should not set ourselves against her national aspirations
merely because we dislike the character of her Gov-
ernment. The other is that our endeavors to reach a
stable understanding with her should be manifestly in-
spired by a desire for justice and fair play rather than by
fear of falling out with her.
Britain, he contends, must not be content with
any definition of justice which suggests that demo-
cracies are always right and dictatorships always
wrong ; it must have a code which will guide it honor-
ably between the perils of isolation on the one hand
and unlimited obligation on the other ; must retain
an absolute discretion to act as it thinks right in the
circumstances of the time “when any crisis arises
short of an armed invasion of France.” While it
cannot abandon Europe to the pressure of armed and
arbitrary force, Britain must nevertheless not be
dragged into conflict over every challenge to the status
quo, or resist on principle every claim advanced by
Governments of a type British people may dislike.
By far the largest export of this country [Britain]
since the dictatorships became strong has been denuncia-
tion, and I am so deeply convinced of the danger of
continuing to abuse other countries without understand-
ing them that I beg for attention to a less Pharisaic
view of international sins ■ and sinners. We shall do
nothing for peace and a great deal for war by simply
making broad our phylacteries against peoples we regard
as transgressors, and I would plead that now at long
last, when the habit has brought us to the edge of
another Armageddon, we should abandon it in favor of
a more understanding attitude towards them.
He pictures Britain’s position in the world as that
of a Dives, and therefore as naturally taking the view
that the present distribution of the world’s good things
is just. As a great world Power it has all the eco-
nomic opportunity, the range of political influence,
the scope for spreading its language, culture and poli-
tical ideals that any Power, however great, could pos-
sibly desire. It is therefore easy for it to be on the
side of Law in international affairs, and, he com-
ments drily, “no foreign Power can have any doubt
upon the importance we attach to that; Justice and
the Rule of Law are the constant burden of all our
comment on world events.” But mere insistence on
Law, coming from a country so favorably placed,
cannot but be treated with contempt by other coun-
tries if, as thsW think, the real merits of the case me
ignored.
War is a certainty if means cannot be found to per-
suade Germany that the diplomacy of force will
encounter resistance so formidable that she has nothing
to gain by challenging it, and also to convince her
that she can obtain without force the markets and raw
materials which are necessary to enable her to convert
her present war economy, with its concentration on war-
like production, into a more profitable peace economy.
Unfortunately, no one can maintain that up to
now _o r) a t any rate, up to Mr. Chamberlain’s visits
to Germany—any attempt whatever was made by
Britain or any other country to demonstrate that Ger-
many could get anything at all except by resort to
force. That is irrefutable historical fact, stretching
over a period of 20 years, and German power politics
of the last few years is the direct outcome of it. Sir
Edward Grigg proceeds:
We cannot in fairness deny to the German people,
with all their industry and organising capacity, a sphere
of political and economic influence comparable to that
enjoyed by the other greatest Powers—Britain, the
United States, France, ‘ Italy, Japan and Russia. To
attempt to do so would be to make an explosion inevit-
able.
Though he is thus writing with an eye all the
time on Germany, and with a good part of the purpose
of his book an encouragement of a real understand-
ing of that country, his main object is to urge upon
Britain thoroughgoing organisation for defence. He
is, however, not so thoroughgoing as to advocate
compulsory military service, though he argues
favorably for it. He points out that “in training and
organisation for the service of a cause” Britain is in-
ferior not only to the dictatorships but to other demo-
cratic countries.
Democracy has certain notorious weaknesses, but
military inefficiency is not necessarily one of them —
witness France, Scandinavia and Switzerland.
Nor can it be maintained that the compulsory train-
ing of youth in service to the State is prejudicial
to° democracy—witness not only France, Scandinavia
and Switzerland but Australia and New Zealand, in both
of which Dominions a variant of the Swiss system
cadet and militia training was made compulsory t>y
general agreement before the last war. .... .u_
No one has yet been found to maintain that tn
Australians of our day have suffered some diminution
of independence and virility of mind by the training
through which they passed when they were young, rso
one furthermore can suggest that the democratic charac-
ter of Australian Governments was weakened or
impaired. We make ourselves ridiculous by ignoring
such democratic examples as hers and denouncing in
every proposal for citizen training of our youth the
sinister and awful shadow of the Prussian sergeant-
major. The long Australian stride remains unchanged,
and there is no part of the world more free than the
Australian continent from the goose-step order or ideas.
Nevertheless, he does not directly argue for adop-
tion of compulsory military training. He appears to
believe Britain can become strong enough through
such measures as a Register of Citizens, to enable
the whole of the adult population to be classified and
so organised that there would be no overlapping and
waste of man-power, which would be instantly brought
into compulsory service if war broke out. Such a
Register might do good not only in having the
nation organised and ready, and not only in Britain.
The common good sense of the general run ol people
there —as in Australia, Maoriland and elsewhere in
the Empire—is a powerful restraining influence
against quarrelsome interventionist crusaders. That
influence would not be weakened, but probably enor-
mously strengthened if the certainty of compulsory
service, envisaged in the idea of a Register of Citizens,
applied to every able-bodied man and woman without
exception, and every one of them had a lively appre-
ciation of exactly what that was going to entail for
himself or herself individually.
Evolution of an Australian.
Eric Lowe has published his big novel, Salute to
Freedom (Cassell), out of its due time. Had it hap-
pened years ago when the hue-and-cry after the “great
Australian novel” was at its height it would no doubt
have been acclaimed as the long-expected master-
piece. It has the bulk, the scope, the faqade, the self-
conscious comprehensiveness that goes with the role.
And to-day it would have lain as still on the shelf
as the other putative masterpieces.
The secret of its weakness is that it attempts too
much. The theme is the evolution of an Australian
from his boyhood on his father’s station, through
love, married and otherwise, war, business, more love,
to death in Spain before a firing squad and a last-
minute conversion to Communism. It might well have
been called “Pilgrimage to Communism,” for this
finale seems to imply justification for all the trials and
sufferings of the hero.
Robin Stewart is made to tread a via dolorosa
throughout 670 pages. As a boy his consuming pas-
sion was the land as personified in his station home,
Malwa. He was an only son, and his future seemed
settled. In a heart-to-heart talk his father said to
him:
“I and my father and my grandfather... .have built
up an inheritance for you and your sons. Is it a lesser
thing than a house of commerce? Is there a profession
that is creative? You need never be ashamed that you
win your living from the soil. There can be no finer
way of life than that of the pastoralist and the farmer;
and when it is all boiled down a nation’s final and only
lasting asset is her land.”
But at 21 Robin fell in love with Myrna, seven
years his senior, and proposed marriage. His parents
oposed the marriage, but Myrna, who had been jilted
by one man already, held on. The marriage took
place, and Stewart, senior, disinherited his son. Robin
bought a property, speculated and acquired the classic
and inevitable mortgage.
War broke out. As a married man with two
little girls and an encumbered property, he did not
see his way to enlist. The iron entered into his soul.
By this time he was in love with Nancy Mcßride, a
brave and cheerful comrade. He decided to sell the
remains of his property and go to the war.
In the war episode—perhaps the most lively in
the book —Robin was cheated once more. He arrived
too late to take part in the fighting, and the nearest
he came to action was the shooting of the veteran
horses in Egypt. He returned to Australia a week
after Nancy had died in giving birth to his child. He
thought his life was ruined. He racketed round the
country setting his hand to this and that until his
father, on his deathbed, persuaded him to return to
his wife. , , , .
He made it clear to Myrna that he had only
come for the sake of the children and that he loved
her no more. The life was too much for Myrna’s
weak mind; she broke down into hopeless insanity.
Robin was at a loose end again, but gradually social
interests came to fill the void in his heart, and he
fell in love again ; but this time platonically. His
eldest daughter, now a nurse in England, wrote to
tell him that she was going to Spain with the British
medical unit. Robin followed her there, with fatal
TeSUl falute to Freedom is an infinitely expanded novel-
ette with a moral. It is large, vague and conventional,
and the characters are, without exception, stock pieces.
The pictures of Australian life are equally stereotyped,
and their mere multiplication does nothing to increase
their validity.
A Droll Journey.
A few years ago Frederick Howard —known in
Melbourne journalism —scored a multiple-edition suc-
cess with The Emigrant, a story of a young English-
man's Australian experiences. Followed two more,
neither as satisfactory as the firsthand now comes
The Negroes Begin at Calais (Heinemann), set m
Europe, and a remarkably good piece of work.
It is not merely the hilarious specimen of insular-
ity the title suggests. It is better than that, for the
satire is subservient to a very real and sensitive undei-
standing of human nature. The name comes from an
article by Henri Beraud:
Alas, the great Italian who knows so many things,
can he have forgotten that for every self-respecting
Englishman, for every well-bred Islander, in short, for
every real gentleman, the negroes begin at Calais?
The story concerns a pilgrimage through Europe
of seven well-intentioned persons: Peter Piper, “a
fair-minded Englishman, the editor of a precious
weekly” ; Dorothy, his handsome but sensible wife ;
Georges Sanet, an elegant Frenchman of belles-lettres
quality ; Dr. Carl Zucker, a German scientist, earnest
and high-minded ; his sister Linda, a pleasant woman
who has so far —and she is well into middle-age —
missed the good things of life ; Benito Brocci, an
assertive Italian with an inferiority complex; Sir
Tasman Meddicate, a veteran journalist without
regrets.
Lady Rhoda Robinson, who financed them, called
them the Fellowship of Understanding Neighbors and
sent them forth to gather material for a book on the
troubled state of Europe, a book which she hopes will
lead to a mutual understanding and the solution of
all troubles. Lady Rhoda is an optimist who can
afford it.
The tale of the journey is that of the ten little
nigger boys with modern embellishments. Dr. Zucker
gets a job in Russia, where the laboratories are big
enough to satisfy even his scientific heart; Linda
finds an elderly but quite satisfactory beau there in
the Heavy Industries Department and stays to marry
him ; Brocci leaves the party to go to Bucharest to
superintend the broadcast of his operetta, which has
been bought by a millionaire biscuit manufacturer to
advertise his product. There he is involved in a super
operetta of real life, is shot in mistake for another
man, gets into the headlines and marries the heiress
to all the biscuits.
Sir Tasman, who is down to his last pound and
beginning to realise that his adventurous days are
over, discovers his youth again in forging a passport
for a fair refugee from Russia and finally deserts the
party to go war-corresponding in Addis Ababa. Only
Peter, Dorothy and Sanet arrive back in England.
Sanet has fallen in love with Dorothy, so he, too, in
a way, is out of action. There is no book and neither
is there any better understanding of Europe. All the
pilgrims have done is to discover themselves and
have some absurdly appropriate adventures.
Looked at from one angle The Negroes Begin at
Calais is a parody of all those earnest books, so popu-
lar at present, that set out to map a troubled world.
It mocks, but not inordinately. It manages to be
natural and true in the midst of its self-created
absurdity.
Race characteristics are exhibited with a little, not
unfriendly, grimace: “A curious race, the British.
When they were strangers, sitting opposite you in a
bus, they gave the impression of staring at you with
their throats.... Their patriotism consisted of venerat-
ing the past, being mildly annoyed at the present and
expecting catastrophe in the future.” The French
are credited with “a capacity for calmness in other
people’s troubles.” The Germans, Russians and
Rumanians are similarly remarked upon. Howard is
nothing if not witty.
Psychology of Revolution.
The War in the Marshes (Faber) is Robert
Young’s first book and it has that curious imagina-
tive bloom that some first novels have ; that too great
eagerness, that trick of bolting away into poetry. It
is a fable of revolution in England, an attack on
Liverpool from the Welsh mountains by a small band
of desperate men.
A more highly-developed bump of salesmanship
would have led Young to attach his tale to one or
other of the great factions and make it a political
novel with propaganda on the side. But The War in
the Marshes has no platform, no overt theory or ideal
behind it. Young sets out to portray the psychology
of revolution, and by stripping his narrative of poli-
tical significance he isolates this phenomenon.
The many and diverse characters make a whole
and are all members of one body. They are the
revolution. There are the two protagonists ; Cargoe,
the intellectual, and McGregor, the man of action.
Cargoe is always striving after the perfect image of
revolution, always searching and questioning:
Fascism, Communism, Liberalism, all were useless.
To build the new world which he coveted he wanted only
a single-mindedness of aim and an urgency of desire,
and without them he was lost. Single-mindedness!
Urgency! ' The words beat a tattoo in his mind and gave
him no rest. Urgency followed him, single-mindedness
sidetracked him; one had to harness them both and
drive the team to the furthermost limits of the spirit.
His questioning, right up to the brink of action,
has its recoil in exhaustion and despair. He knows
that they must fail. He cannot guide life because he
is dazzled by its complexities. Yet he goes on and
is trusted. McGregor is the opportunist who trusts
to the inspiration of the moment.
McGregor had a curious resemblance to Mr. Baldwin,
and like Mr. Baldwin his face seemed vacuous without a
pipe. Artistically it was necessary that there should be
a line around his mouth, if only to relieve the terrifying
monotony of his features.
In the end Cargoe and McGregor amount to
the same. The long cogitation of the one and the
empirical dash of the other lead them to the same
impasse. Behind them are their followers massed like
a picture by Rembrandt with a figure highlighted here
and there —Gardiner, who read Beaumont and
Fletcher while bivouacked in the snow ; Benjie, the
young aeronaut who never looked beyond his work ,
Paddy, the super oaf ; Andrewes, who would like “to
play at revolutions and spend the day firing machine-
guns and the night in bed telling his wife what a good
fellow he is” ; Liliencron, the Austrian who dabbled
in suicide and for whom revolution was a form of
(Continued on page 8.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—aIways.
THE SENIOR STORE,”
ox tor
££2222$
WEAR RESIST
HALF HOSE
All wool, except the ornament!
These designs in Grey, Blue.
Brown or Navy Sizes 10 to
12 inch. At Anthony Horderns'
per pair 1
Or three pairs lor 5/6
ALL WOOL
HALF HOSE
In a better make Smart and
durable wear. Of all wool,
except ornament. Grey, Blue-
Grey, Brown or Navy. Sizes
10 to 12 inch. At Anthony
Horderns', per pair 2/6
Or three pairs lor 2/3
.
m
/W-
It
I
•*s!>
:rw
T
*?
m
"Stylryte" Half Hose
One of Australia's best in quality
sox. Included are some ot the
smartest designs for new season's
wear. Colours are Grey, Green,
Blue-Grey, Brown or Navy. Sizes
10 to 12 inch At Anthony Hor-
derns', per pair ■■■•■ 4/8
Or three pairs for w*
"BURLINGTON'' SOX
Plain All-Wool, with embroidered
clox to tone. A popular make:
Grey, Green, Brown or Navy.
The clox are hand-embroidered in
silk. Sizes 10 to 12 inch.
At Anthony Horderns', pair 4/6
Or three pairs for ; 13/-
GARTER TOP SOX
"Stylryte'' make. One needs r.o
garters with this popular make.
Checks," spots or jacquard designs
in Grey, Green, Blue, Brown or
Navy tones.. Size 10 to 12 inch.
At Anthony Horderns', pair 4/S
Or three pairs lor . :. 13/-
Sr - - j
1
Eft
y*s
I
s£l
i
giflS
as
SiißilHl
Wkmm
lm
mm
■Mali® ll !
tW*-'**
ENGLISH "JAEGER"
Fully fashioned quality Sox. 6-3
ribbed finish. Assorted stripe and
fancy designs m Grey. Brown or
Navy tones. Sizes 10 to 12 inch.
At Anthony Horderns', pair 8/6
Or three pairs for 24/3
"HOLEPROOF"
Super'quality Pure Silk Halt Hose
with lisle tops, toes and heels.
Smart new wrap stripes and iig-
ured eftects. In Blue, Grey or
Brown tones. Sizes 1C to 11| inch.
At Anthony Horderns', pair 4/8
Or three pairs tor 13/-
"HOLEPROOF"
Siik Half Hose by Holeproof.
Pure and Ari. Silk mixture, with
lisle ioes, heels and tops. New
check' or strjpe elieci. *ln Grey.
Blue or Brown (ones. Sizes 10 to
lit inch. At Anthony Horderns',
per pair . 3/6
Or three pairs for 10/-
"Hordura" (Regd.) HALF HOSE
“Hordura" (Regd.) Half Hose. All wool, except
the ornament. Guaranteed and recommended
by Anthony Horderns'. We have- thirty dif-
ferent designs to tone with all the new
suitings. Let us know the shade of your
suit, and we will be pleased to select for you.'
Sizes 10 to 1H in. At Anthony Horderns'. 2/11
Or three pairs for 9/5
Sizes 12 and 13 in. At Anthony Horderns', 3/6
Or three pairs for . 10/-
Size 14 in. At Anthony Horderns', pair, 3/11
Or three pairs for _ _ 11/3
• Men’s Mercery Ground Floor George Street.
Freight paid to all ritilu-ay stations in N.SW. and
seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHON
FAMO
RDERNS
PRICES
WHILE I LIVE I'LL GROW
WJ
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.
'Phone: M 2401. Day and Nighf


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for “The Bulletin’s” Short Story
Competition are:—
First £7O
Second .. . £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
AH stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
"The Horse —An Intelligent Animal, hut Otherwise Almost Human”: Mrs. Parsley
OUR SPORTING CORACLE
BY WAROLD MERCER
DRAWINGS BY ARIA.
44 I HE horse is an intelligent animal but other-
wise almost human,” remarked Mrs. Parsley
I sententiously. “Still some of the things that
are done on the racecourse shouldn’t be
allowed. When one of them jockeys pulls a horse’s
head off, as I was told once, it is time that the
Society for Providing Cruelty to Animals interfered.”
With talk of racing in the air at this season this
outburst from Mrs. Parsley was natural. She had
paused in her work to consult me about the prospects
of her fancy in the Cup. Obviously her ideal was a
favorite that would start at a hundred to one.
“I learnt a lot about racing from Mr. Cuttup,
who was Number 10, when he was here,” pursued
Mrs. Parsley reminiscently. “He depressed me as a
racing man from the moment I saw him, with the
horseshoe tiepin he wore, and he told me that a filly
he had met on the stairs had directed him to my flat,
which of course racing men always talk like that.
Though when I found out that the filly was that Miss
Perry I didn’t think much of his judgment.
“ ‘lf you care for a tip for the handicap on Satur-
day, Mrs. Parsley,’ he said after we had finished the
pulmonary canter, as he called it, which was paying
his rent, ‘I can give you something good. Right from
the horse’s mouth.’
“He was just telling me that Crooklegs was the
horse when Mr. Slompack came along.
“ ‘You’re interested in racing—the Sport of
Kinks?’ says Mr. Slompack. ‘Cuttup? Not related
to Jack Cuttup, the trainer, are you?’
“ ‘Uncle,’ says he slowly, as if he doesn’t want to
admit it. ‘I don’t usually mention it. Y’see, when
people know a man’s related to a trainer, and his
brother is a jockey, they expect to get inflammation.
If too much inflammation is given, it cramps the odds,
naturally.’
“All the talk about them diseases was of course
fugitively speaking, as they call it. I was glad that
Mr. Slompack seemed quite pleased with the new
tenant, having had the idea that he was not the style
of man he would like. ‘Our sporting coracle,’ he called
him only the next day.
“As it was, Mr. Cuttup was ‘Jim’ to everybody
in the establishment in a couple of days. A very
popular indentity he seemed to be, with everybody
asking him for tips.
“A reading man, he seemed, always talking about
the books, and his room always littered with sport-
ing papers. He knew all about the pedestals of them
horses, and used to talk about putting ponies and
monkeys on them as if he owned a zoological gardens.
But, of course, that was more of his fugitive language.
4 4 R- CUTTUP wasn’t what you would call an
IVI oil painting; and it was a surprise to me to
find that quiet Miss Tulip, who was Number 14, be-
coming quite friendly with him. It was not until Mr.
Hardman, who used to take her out regularly as the
clock works, came to me that I really noticed. A big
feller and very direct was Mr. Hardman.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley, what is all this, can you tell me?’
he says. ‘This is the second night this week Miss
Tulip slipped me up. I rang her up twice to-day. If
there’s anybody else’
“He didn’t say what would happen if there was
anybody else, and he went away when I told him that,
not being my brother’s keepsake, I had no idea where
Miss Tulip was; but he looked like one of them ex-
pressed volcanoes. That’s what made me notice when
Miss Tulip came in with Mr. Cuttup, after the pic-
ture shows were out.
“ ‘Oh, Mrs. Parsley,’ says she when I drew her
aside and told her, ‘if Mr. Hardman asks you, you
needn’t tell him that I was out with Mr. Cuttup. It’s
not that Mr. Cuttup is anything to me, but Alec is
so terribly in earnest, and so crude in his methods.
“ ‘He looks as if he could fight,’ I says.
“ ‘Yes ; that is just the trouble. Alec thinks that
strength is everything— not that I’m not fond of him.
Not that if I really cared for anybody else he would
not take it well; but he would call Mr. Cuttup a
little squib.
(“Which,” remarked Mrs. Parsley in parenthesis,
“is concisely what Mr. Hardman did call him after-
wards.”)
“ ‘Of course, Mr. Cuttup is really nothing to me,
only I think .it dreadful to see a young man like him
devoting his whole life to gambling. I went to the
pictures with him to-night because he told me that
otherwise he was going to a gambling school. What
I want to do is to make him see that there are better
things in life than gambling.’
“As Shakspeare says ‘Can a leper change his
spots?’ though what them lepers drink I do not know,
and I don’t see why it should be so hard for them to
try something else. But it’s a good motter ; and I
told it to Miss Tulip. Her idea was, though, that, as a
Christian, she ought to do her best to deform a man
like Mr. Cuttup even if it was running him the risk
of being hurt by expressed volcanoes.
“And what she said about Mr. Cuttup losing his
money was quite right; now and again he used to
owe his rent because of it, which, as I told him, was
hardly respectable, in spite of him getting inflammation
right from the horse’s mouth, as he called it. And
even when the horses he spoke about won, and Mr.
Slompack and Mr. Wassail and the Major and the
others would be saying what a good tipster he was,
and it being a good thing they’d got the oil, as they
called it, from him, he’d come home looking glum
and saying he’d lost his money on something else.
“ ‘I was a mug not to keep to my inflammation,’
he’d say. ‘I got the tip that there was this outsider,
So-and-so, that might just pip our horse. I took four
hundred frogskins to twenty an’ the chance of a good
win.*
“The money he lost like that was terrible.
“ ‘He is very foolish,’ said Mr. Slompack. ‘Fancy
a man with the opportunity of getting the inflammation
he does giving it to others and not taking it himself.
Ah, well, he’s only young; he’ll learn sense. Experi-
ence does it, you know, Mrs. Parsley.’
“Which is very true, although it hasn’t always
saved me from being owed rent.
“‘Anyway, with his uncle and his brother, he is
a regular turf coracle,’ says Mr. Slompack. ‘Wassail
and myself have decided to take a long shot on Queen
Mab, which he says is a good thing for the Cup. It’s
not even mentioned in the betting yet, but as Jack
Cuttup is the trainer young Jim probably knows
something. We’ll put on anything you want, Mrs.
Parsley, with ours, if you want to make one of those
heavy turf investures of yours,’ he says.
“Of course, it made me take a lot more interest
in the Cup, having my two shillings on so early. Mr.
Slompack said if Queen Mab won I would win ten
pounds. Even Mr. Slompack got a little excited when
that Queen Mab started winning some races. ‘lt’s
working into place as one of the horses to be con-
sidered, Mrs. Parsley,’ he says.
4 «'"THERE were others in the flats had backed Queen
1 Mab ; but that wasn’t the only excitement, be-
cause Mr. Hardman had found out about Miss Tulip
wanting to deform Mr. Cuttup, and he came to the
flats once or twice, very angry, to find him, and say-
ing such things as that he’d flatten the little rat.
“ ‘Mr. Hardman,’ I says, ‘you will have the good-
ness not to raise your voice in my establishment. That
sort of thing is only allowed to married couples, which
can’t be prevented, who are tenants. And I want
you extinctly to understand that nobody will be flat-
tened in these premises except over my dead corpse.’
“He said something about being sorry for losing
his temper; and Miss Tulip was very angry with him
as she took him away. That Mr. Cuttup was usually
out when Mr. Hardman came, but on Fridays and
Saturdays, when he came home singing, he’d stand on
the top of the stairs and call out ‘Bring out your Alec
Hardman, an’ I’ll show you what I’ll do with him.’
And when I got one of the men to get him to his flat
he’d tell them all he was going to do to Mr. Hardman
When he saw him. It was them nights that Miss Tulip
Went out with Mr. Hardman, which she still did,
although she was angry with him; so it seemed fairly
safe. That was until she decided one Friday to go out
with Mr. Cuttup to keep him from getting drunk.
“ ‘Miss Tulip wants to deform me, Mrs. Parsley.
Do you think she’s got a chance?’ says Mr. Cuttup
as he waits for her. I didn’t like his silly grin, and I
told him so ; at least I told him he ought to think
himself very lucky that there was a young woman
who wanted to save him from making a fool of him-
self.
“ ‘l’m a sport, you know, Mrs. Parsley ; a bit of
a hard-doer,’ he says as if he was proud of it.
“It put me on one of them tender hooks, as the
saying is ; I looked out for Mr. Hardman to get hold
of him before that Miss Perry, which I was sure had
made all the trouble, her being one of them sort of
women who, being left on herself, didn’t like to see
a young woman getting more than her share. Come
Mr. Hardman did, too. I tried to tell him that Miss
Tulip had been called away to a sick relative, which
she hadn’t asked me to say, but I didn’t want any
of that flattening and smashing when Mr. Cuttup came
back later in the night.
“ ‘You might tell Minnie, anyway, that I’ve got
some inflammation that might interest her about her
prodiggy,’ he says.
“ ‘Don’t you use terms like that about one of my
lady tenants,’ I says, shocked at him, because he was
decent enough in what he said usually. But he went
away quietly; which I was glad of that.
“ ‘You might warn that squib that a woman’s
looking for him. He ought to know what that means.
She says she’s his wife,’ he says as he was going.
(if F ever there was a bolt from a balloon! It gave me
1 quite a shock. I knew that Mr. Cuttup was one of
them probables _who wasted his money on righteous


living, putting ponies on horses when he couldn t pay
his rent, but I had never had no auspicions that he had
a deserted wife who might nearly pull the place down,
like some of them do.
“Not that some of the nicest of men haven’t got
wives chasing them. Why even that quiet Mr. Brown,
who had taken Number 17, told me that if any woman
came asking for him I was to say I had never seen
him ; and he was a man who didn’t even bet on horses.
He said, when they was all talking about it, that it
was a fool’s game.
“Mr. Slompack said that Mr. Hardman might
only have said what he did in the rage of jealousy,
which everybody knows that jealousy is a green-eyed
lobster that bites whom it devours ; and as I didn’t
see Miss Tulip when they came in I didn’t think it
necessary to say what Mr. Hardman had said.
“But it seemed that the flats were in the fire
when, the next day, a woman came, very expensively
dressed, but very common I would call her, and asked
if 1 had a Mr. Cuttup living in the flats. ‘I know he’s
here. A Miss Perry told me ; and I met a Mr. Hard-
man a few days ago,’ she says. ‘l’m Mrs. Cuttup.’
“I am not one of them Ananiases and Sapphires
that was killed by lightning for telling lies ; but I feel
it my duty to protect tenants from angry wives, which
I have found have a habit of breaking the furniture.
‘There is a Mr. Cuttup ; but he is out. He is nearly
always out.’
“ ‘When will he be back?’ she asks.
“ ‘He’s almost certain to be back next Friday
week,’ I says, which was the truth, though I didn’t
mention the other times he might be back.
“ ‘Oh! ’ she says. ‘As far as I’m concerned he
can be where he likes, but when I hear of him galli-
vanting about with another woman it’s my business.
That is, if he starts spending money on her.’
“She went away quite reasonably, which is more
than other wives I have met do ; but it was like having
the sword of that Oclees (which Mr. Slompack always
uses a swear word in front of the name) hanging over
you to have that woman likely to come at any time,
and Mr. Hardman likely to arrive in one of them
flattening moods. I thought anyway that Miss Tulip
ought to be warned.
“I happened to catch them Mr. Cuttup and her
—in the lobby at the top of the stairs, and I went
straight to the point, not being a believer in that pre-
varication which is the thief of time.
“ ‘Mr. Cuttup,’ I says, ‘a lady who says she is
your wife called this evening.’
“ ‘What wife?’ he cried.
“ ‘lf you have more than one wife,’ I says, ‘that
is your business. This lady says she is Mrs. Cuttup.’
“ ‘I haven’t got a wife,’ he said, turning to Miss
Tulip. He blustered so much about it that it made
quite a scene, and Mr. Brown, coming up the stairs,
asked what was the matter.
“ ‘A woman has been here claiming to be Mrs.
Cuttup,’ says Mr. Cuttup. ‘l’m just saying that I
haven’t got a wife.’
“ ‘Oh, your name is Cuttup?’ asked Mr. Brown;
he hardly knew anyone, keeping very much to him-
self. ‘Not the jockey? I happen to know that Joe
Cuttup, the jockey, is married.’
“ ‘He’s Joe Cuttup’s brother,’ says Miss Tulip.
“ ‘Oh, I don’t know about a brother. I never
heard of Joe Cuttup having a sister-in-law,’ says Mr.
Brown.
< ‘ \ A ISS TULIP went on being friendly with Mr.
' *1 Cuttup ; perhaps she wanted to deform him
from deserting his wife if he had a wife. But there
always seemed something likely to happen with all
them implications ; and then there was the report
that Queen Mab had gone lame after winning a race
and wasn’t likely to start. More than that, that Mr.
Cuttup comes home talking about having lost twenty
pounds on a horse, when the one he’d told Mr.
Wassail and others had won,
and telling me he’d have to owe
the rent, which made two weeks.
“ ‘I was just telling him that
he would have to pay up or go,
being already sick of all the
trouble and that being the last
camel’s back that was broken by
a straw, as they say, when he
suddenly dashed away from me.
And there was that Mrs. Cuttup
—and Mr, Hardman, talking
about flattening people, with
her.
“It looked like a guilty
conscience that needs no ex-
cuses when Mr. Cuttup went
like that directly he saw her.
“ ‘Where’s my husband?’
says Mrs. Cuttup. ‘Oh, I know
his flat, Number 10. I’m going
to find him.’
“ ‘You can’t stop her goin’
up, Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr.
Hardman. ‘He rang his wife
up to say he was going to Mel-
bourne ; and he hasn’t gone.
Minnie —Miss Tulip—says she’s
going to marry him. And the
swine’s married! Ah, here’s
Minnie! ’ he cries. ‘Minnie, you
can’t go on with this. This
Cuttup mongrel is married.’
“‘I don’t believe it. He swears to me he’s not,’
she says.
“ ‘His wife’s here,’ he argued.
“ ‘I don’t believe she is his wife,’ she retorted.
“ ‘What in any case do you want to marry him
for? He’s a waster’
“ ‘By marrying him I think I can deform him,’
she says. ‘I feel it my duty. It is the only way.’
“If ever there was a pretty kettle of fish, that
was one, with Mrs. Cuttup hammering at the door
of Number 10 and telling Mr. Cuttup to come out
and face her like a man, and them two arguing, him
sometimes pleading and sometimes talking about
breaking necks. It was making all the flats curious,
as flats do get when anything like that goes on. The
only thing for me to do was to open the door with
my house key when he didn’t open it himself.
“He wasn’t there ; not even under the bed, where
Mrs. Cuttup said he often got when there was trouble.
He must have dashed out of the back entrance.
“ ‘We’ll come back again,’ says Mr. Hardman and
Mrs. Cuttup. Miss Tulip ran up to her flat crying.
“'-THEY say it never rains but a lot of water runs
' under the bridge ; and there was Detective Car-
mody and another of them detectives when I went
downstairs.
“ ‘We want to see Mr. Cuttup,’ says Mr. Car-
mod y.
“ ‘lf it’s about his wife,’ I says, ‘she’s just been
here and she couldn’t find him. He’s not in his flat.’
“ ‘He’s got a wife, has he?’ asks Mr. Carmody.
‘Well, it’s not about her. We’ll come back again.’
“And come back again they did, both lots of
them, time after time, till they was the worry of my
life. And Miss Tulip was another worry, too, always
asking me if I had seen Mr. Cuttup. But Mr. Cuttup
was one who didn’t come back.
“ ‘lt’s a most mysterious thing, Mrs. Parsley,’
said Mr. Slompack. ‘He’s a young scamp, of course,
and he seems to have got himself into a lot of trouble.
A reckless fool.’
“ ‘lf he doesn’t come back by to-morrow,’ I says,
‘l’m going to move his things out and let the flat.’
“ ‘I don’t blame you ; hope deferred —about rent
and other things—maketh the heart shick,’ says Mr.
Slompack. ‘He had some good tips, though. That’s
natural considering his relations. It’s a pity he didn’t
follow them himself, though they did fail sometimes.
We still have a chance over that Queen Mab.
“ ‘lt might pay me back for the rent he owes,’
I says.
“ ‘Not much of a chance, I fear,’ says Mr. Slom-
pack. ‘Queen Mab is any price now. Still you never
know! ’
“That Mr. Cuttup remained like a vanishing
trick; and even them people got tired of coming ask-
ing for him. It was no use worrying about the money
Mr. Cuttup owed me, so I tried to forget it; but I
couldn’t help thinking of him when I turned on the
wireless in my flat to listen to the Cup and the other
races being run.
“ ‘Not that I ever can listen to them, what with
how the tenants go on whenever there’s anything like
that. As that poor Miss Tulip, who was still moping,
was at home, I thought she might as well listen, and
invited her to my flat.
“ ‘And then they all seemed to come together.
When I saw that Mr. Hardman, having heard she had
stopped away from work, looking for Miss Tulip, I
told him he could go into my flat and see her.
“Coming back from telling the tenants in Number
20 that if they wanted to fight they would have to
be quieter about it, there was Mr. Wassail and Mr.
Slompack at the top of the stairs. With them was
a man who looked to me like one of them under-
takers.
“ ‘This gentleman wants to speak to you, Mis.
Parsley,’ says Mr. Slompack.
“ ‘Ah —Mrs. Parsley?’ says the undertaker man.
‘lt is about a Mr. Cuttup I want to speak to you. I
want to settle for him and collect his belongings. And
while I am here I want to speak to —ah —let me see
—a Mr. Comeback and a Mr. Weasel.’
“ ‘Mr. Slompack and Mr. Wassail,’ I says.
They were curious as the cat that was killed ; so
they all came into my flat, where I’d forgotten about
Mr. Hardman and Miss Tulip being in it. I was just
thinking that that Mrs. Cuttup should be there, too,
when there she was!
“ ‘I heard you talking about my husband, so I
thought I was entitled to follow you in,’ she says.
“The undertaker-looking man acted as if he had
been shot.
“‘Your husband!’ he proclaimed. ‘Are you his
wife? Is this another of his misdeeds?’
“ ‘l’d rather you didn’t call me a misdeed,’ she
says, as pert as you like.
“He took no notice of her, but turned on Mr.
Slompack and Mr. Wassail.
“ ‘I hope you gentlemen are ashamed of your-
selves,’ he said.
“ ‘Ashamed! ’ they cried, very indignant.
“ ‘You have encouraged a well-brought-up young
man to think and talk of nothing but horseracing, to
gamble his money—his employer’s money. It was
through you he became a thief; he was arrested, but
I think I have arranged matters’ ——
“ ‘Through us, sir! ’ cries Mr. Slompack. ‘Who
the devil are you, anyway?’
“ ‘I am Jim Cuttup’s uncle —Cuttup is my name,’
he says.
“ ‘You’re not Jack Cuttup, the horse-trainer?’
says Mr. Wassail.
“ ‘You’re in Melbourne. The papers say that,’
I said.
“But this Mr. Cuttup was as angry about being
thought a horse-trainer as if it was the seven deadly
sins of them foolish vergers; and he was even more
angry that anyone should think there was a jockey in
the family. He was head of a religious book com-
pany and a deacon of his church, he said; and Jim’s
father had been a mission clergyman. Jim was his
only nephew.
“Then Mr. Slompack got going and said a lot
of things which made Mr. Cuttup apologise.
“ ‘Your nephew, if you say he is repenitent now,
is a liar, sir,’ he said. ‘He told us —same name you
{Continued on page 7.)
them two arguing, him sometimes pleading and sometimes talking about breaking necks.


"Git Out When Y’ Punch Is Slower. Y’ On’y Got” —
SO MANY FIGHTS
By A.C. Headley
DRAWING BY JOHN MILLS.
MICKY TYE grinned, waved his hand to the
crowd, and climbed down from the ring.
Applause followed him along the aisle until
it was shut out by the door of the dressing-
room. There was a brief wave of it even when the
other boy pushed his way into the room.
Micky looked at him as he came in, conscious
that his fists had brought about that leaden tiredness in
the other’s face, the mouth swollen to double its
usual size, and the steady trickle of blood from the
corner of his mouth. He looked down at his knuckles
and grinned. They were set-ups, most of the boys he
was meeting now. He was still grinning when Mac
came over and pushed him back on the rubbing table.
“Still topplin’ ’em,” said Mac.
“J’m not stoppin’,” Micky told him.
“That’s the stuff,” Mac commented, stroking
his legs; “you’ll have a belt to wear with y’r pants
before y’ finished.”
“How was it?”
Mac considered. “I can’t git over it, you’re so
much like Jimmy Everitt. You got everything the
same, y’ stance, y’ style, everything. When I see that
right cross of yours snap it makes me think I’m seein’
Jimmy again.” He paused. “There was a fighter f’r
y', Micky. I see ’im give away two stone against
Jimmy Miller and belt the daylights out of ’im. There
wasn’t no one could beat ’im until near the finish.”
Micky lay back and stared at the ceiling.
They said he was like Jimmy Everitt. He liked
hearing them say it and reading the bits in the papers
about it. It was something he wanted to believe.
There had been a glamorous magnificence about
Everitt’s career. The time he had kept his unbeaten
record by fighting through ten rounds with bones in
both hands broken. The fight with Jimmy Miller.
And those other stories of his finish, drink and
women. Flash Jim they sometimes called him. That
had been thirty years ago, but people still talked
about Jimmy Everitt.
Lying there, feeling the smooth slap of Mac’s
hands, Micky wondered how long people would
remember him.
“Mac,” he said suddenly, “he must’ve been a
great fighter.”
Mac’s hands kept up their rhythmical slapping.
“’E was the best I ever saw.” He rolled Micky over
on his stomach.
There were half a dozen men talking at the end
of the rubbing table and Micky lifted his head to
watch them. Borthwick, his trainer, was with them,
and presently he detached himself from the group and
perched on a corner of the table.
“Listen, Micky,” he said, “I got you a fight—a
good fight. A main bout at the Olympia. You ought
to be able to take it. Ocky Ford. Ten rounds.”
Borthwick lifted his hat and wiped the sleeve of his
coat across his forehead. “Ocky’s a southpaw, but you
ought to be able to take ’im all right. You got a
week to train, an’ it’s worth twelve quid.”
Micky's neck was beginning to ache from the
strain of holding it up and he let it fall on to his
arms. “I’ll take ’im orright, Joe.”
It was pleasant to think of twelve quid for a
fight. It took him four six-rounders to bring in that
much, and here it was twelve quid for one fight. Ocky
Ford. He closed his eyes and reflected pleasantly
just what he would do to Ocky Ford.
Mac’s voice disturbed a short right that was
travelling to Ocky’s stomach. “There y’ are. You’ll
do.”
Micky twisted round on the table.
“Mac,” he said, “was Jimmy Everitt ever matched
against a southpaw?”
Mac considered. “I can't say as I know,” he said
at length, “but it wouldn’ make no difference, Jimmy
would’ve whipped ’em anyway. Even if they used
their feet.”
Micky grinned. “I’ll take ’im.”
UT now Ocky was taking him. It was funny
reaching out and almost touching that right glove
with his left. There was something wrong in the way
it kept stabbing past his arms, in the way it snapped
dully into his face. He tried to shift and let it carry
past his shoulder, but there was a left to chop his
cross down and move hard and short into his body.
The first round had been his, but now Ocky had
taken them all to the seventh. Micky’s mouth was
cut, the side of his head dull from the consistent
propping of that right. Back in the corner Borthwick
kept telling him to move in, carry the fight. But that
right was keeping him out, or the left rattling his body.
The extra rounds were beginning to tell. It was the
first time he had been the distance, but whenever he
felt the weariness in his legs he bunched his muscles
and fought it away.
Over the last couple of rounds he had been
shaping better. Somehow the sting seemed to have
gone out of Ocky’s punches, and Micky’s right had
snapped in more than once. With the eighth he was
finding it easier to move in. He was starting to fight
back hard and fierce. Ocky’s glove was still clipping
into his face, but the sharp hook of Micky’s right
was sapping its sting. He grinned when he came back
to his corner, hurting himself with the swift twinge
of his lacerated mouth. “It’s in the bag, Joe.”
Then he was out under the lights, fighting hard.
He was slipping Ocky’s right now, stabbing and cutting
off the jab. The power that he had wasted over those
early rounds seerped to have come back to his gloves.
He stabbed hard to the body, and felt his punch dig
deep in flesh. His left clipped hard on Ocky’s chin.
Ocky’s feet were dragging. Micky could hear the
roar of crowd noise, and he was punching madly now.
He hooked a short left to Ocky’s chin. Hooked again.
Ocky’s arms dropped, and the right that was like
Jimmy Everitt’s swept in a vicious arc.
There was no need of the referee’s count to tell
him that he had won. It was in the brief quiet of the
crowd, before they began to cheer. Micky moved
across the ring and helped them carry Ocky to his
corner.
It was not until he lay on the rubbing table with
Mac slapping at his muscles that he realised how
tired he was. It was good to lie there feeling the
soothing slap of Mac’s hands. He twisted towards him.
“Did I remind you Qf Jimmy Everitt, Mac?”
Mac paused in the slapping. “Jimmy would’ve
took ’im in the first,” he commented shortly. “But
you put up a pretty good show over the last bit.”
HTHERE were other ten-rounders after Ocky Ford.
Ten-rounders against orthodox fighters who came
sliding forward over the white canvas with a left
propped out to meet him. He knew how to deal with
them, and discovered not a great deal of difference
between them and the boys he had been fighting in
the sixes. There was the question of condition over
those extra four rounds, but he was growing harder,
not letting weariness abate his fighting.
They were telling him he was like Jimmy Everitt,
and he was beginning to look like the picture of the
old champion. His nose had started to flatten, and
his jaw was spreading, getting heavy. There was talk
of a champion match, and all the time he was making
fairly good money.
Mac discovered Jimmy Everitt.
“Listen, Micky,” he said, “ ’e’s livin’ in Redfern.
I could take you over to see ’im if y’ like. ’E’s got a
room over there. We could drop out after trainin’.
’E’d like it. Y’ know what these old-timers are like.
They can smell the liniment on y\”
It was a mean street, a mean house, the walls
unpapered, dirty from the grease of years. As they
climbed the stairs Micky could feel the dirt of the
house on his fingers. Mac knocked on the door at
the top.
“Come in.”
They almost filled the tiny room. An old man
was sitting on the side of a bed covered with old
coats. This couldn’t be Jimmy Everitt. This old man
staring stupidly at them. Micky saw the knuckles of
flesh at the sides of his head, the white scar over one
eye, and the nose and mouth almost flattened together.
But Mac was calling him Jimmy and introducing
him.
“ ’Ullo,” commented the man on the bed, and
Micky saw him screw his eyes open as though he
could not see clearly. “ TJllo.”
Mac was talking now, telling him about Micky.
Everitt did not seem interested, but he sat silent,
listening.
“I can’t git over it, you’re so much like Jimmy
Everitt. You got everything the same, y’ stance,
y’ style, everything.”


see —his uncle was a trainer and his brother a jockey.
He used to talk of putting ten and twenty and even
fifty pounds on horses”
“ ‘He assured me that the largest amount he ever
put on a horse,’ said this Mr. Cuttup, ‘was five shil-
lings—it was usually two shillings—but even that
ruined him. He stole his employer’s money from the
petty crash. Through my influence they will have
him back again ; the charge against him will not be
depressed. But he lives with me in the future.’
“‘How much did he bamboozle?’ asks Mr.
Wassail.
“Mr. Cuttup looked at a slip of paper.
“ ‘Three pounds fifteen and sixpence,’ he said.
“ ‘Listen! ’ I said.
“There had been all that jumble of talking like
a Bethlehem let loose, with Mrs. Cuttup trying to
have a say about it being the jockey Joe Cuttup who
was her husband, and trying to show a photograph
of him, so that nobody had taken any notice of the
wireless. And there was the Cup being run. When
they became all silent it was heard.
“ ‘Yes, that horse is Queen Mab,’ said the an-
nouncer. ‘Practically an outsider —hardly in the bet-
ting. A moment ago she was second-last; but she is
coming round the ruck at a great pace ; now she is
seventh. Lullaby holds the lead at the two fur-
longs’—
“ ‘Why not turn that machine off so that we can
talk?’ says Mr. Cuttup, impatient-like.
“‘Turn it off! Be damned to you! We want
to listen to this!’ cries Mr. Slompack.
“ ‘Queen Mab is simply flying! She’s third now —
second! Here comes Astrakhan! He passes her ; no,
they’re together! They pass Lullaby as if he’s stand-
ing.’
“That Mr. Cuttup looked as if he expected the
world to rock off its inches, as they say, when he saw
me throw my arms round first Mr. Slompack and
then Mr. Wassail, which 1 daresay I shouldn’t have
done, but I was that excited when the wireless said
Queen Mab had won.
“ * A ND that old wowser said that young Jim picked
his tips by putting the names in a hat!’ says Mr.
Wassail. ‘He picked a Cup winner months ago
like that! ’
“ ‘And we believed in him. Our coracle! ’ laughs
Mr. Slompack.
“This was afterwards when that undertaker-
looking Mr. Cuttup had settled everything and gone.
He was candalised again before he left, I except, be-
cause he nearly fell over Mr. Hardman and Miss
Tulip in the hall. They was so busy embarrassing one
another that they didn’t notice who was passing.
“ ‘Well,’ I says, ‘thank goodness that Mrs. Cuttup
didn’t find her husband here. She won’t come again.’
“ ‘She won’t come again,’ says Mr. Slompack ;
‘but Joe Cuttup was here. I wouldn’t let you see that
photograph because I thought you’d let her know
you recognised it. I did. It’s Mr. Brown!’
“Well, you could have knocked me flat with the
last straw! No wonder that Mr. Brown looked queerly
at Mr. Jim Cuttup when he heard he was claiming to
be his brother.”
Mrs. Parsley seized her broom with a recollec-
tion of work waiting to be done.
“If that Mr. Brown, who really did know about
horses, had ever talked about them,” she said, “I
don’t suspect he would ever have inferred to Miss
Perry as a filly.”
Then suddenly they were in the days of the Miller
fight; of a dozen others. Everitt was talking, his eyes
blinking at the backs of his oversize hands. Micky
watched the new light that had come into his face.
“Mac says y’r like me. I was good, wasn’t I, Mac?
1 was good, but it gits y’, son. Y’ got so many good
fights in y’. If y’ good, they call y’ the champ. If
y’ ain’t y’ might still be the champ, but it takes more
rights, an’ it’s that what finishes y’. Git out, son,
before you turn. Git out when y’ punch is slower an’
y' legs is ’ard t’ carry. It’s the tryin’ t’ stay in that
finishes y’. Y’ got so many good fights in y\”
Outside in the street Micky said: “Mac, you can
let this fight business beat y’—but not if you got
brains.”
'"T HERE were good fights left in Micky. Joe
* Borthwick was matching him against the good
boys and he was winning. The championship was
getting closer. Then suddenly the papers carried
pictures of him signing the contract and weighing in
at two o’clock on the day of the fight.
The champion might have fought his good fights.
Micky took him in the eighth with that right that was
like Jimmy Everitt’s. It was great to hear the crowd,
then, the way they stood up and cheered long after
the fight was over. It was great to lie back in bed the
next morning and read the streamers across the sport-
ing pages of the papers. He was in the money now.
Six hundred quid for a fight. The side of his head
was numb, but what did that count against the money
he could take out of the championship?
But there was someone riding the lists with him —
Ocky Ford. Since Micky had defeated him he had
kept coming. There were boys Micky had beaten,
good boys. Ocky had taken them too. But Micky
was confident when they fixed up the match. Title
bout.
“Mac,” he said, “I took ’im once. I can take
’im again.”
“You don’t want to take ’im too easy,” Mac
commented. “ ’E’s come on a lot.”
ICKY was not taking him easily. He had trained
** * hard for the fight. But somehow things were not
going right. The early rounds had been even, and now,
when Ocky should have been tiring, he was fighting
back stronger than ever. The right was carrying to
Micky’s face with menacing directness, and the left
chopping into his body. He came out for the eighth
filled with a determination to batter his way into
range.
He led with his left, letting Ocky’s right carry
past his shoulder, and thudded into Ocky’s stomach.
He was close now, punching hard to the body, but
suddenly Ocky was away, and the clip of a right spun
Micky. He came in again, but this time the right
took him flush. He shook his head and hooked a
left, but it carried him on to Ocky’s jab.
Then suddenly his iegs were heavy, and Ocky’s
fists were menacing. He ducked that right, moving
away, and felt the sear of ropes on his back. Ocky
had moved in. Micky’s glove lifted to fend a right,
but instead a left battered into his face. Another.
His arms seemed dead, and he let his head fall into
them.
He was done. He knew it as he lay back in his
corner. An old cut over his eye had opened, and his
eye was filled with a red mist, but that was nothing
against the dead weariness of his legs.
Now he was fighting again, trying to escape those
heavy deadening fists. But Ocky was tiring. He could
feel it in the lessening power of his punches. Maybe
something would happen. His right sank into Ocky’s
body, but it brought forth a flurry of punches that
moved him round the ring.
Last round. He came out of his corner hard and
tight, trying to forget the weariness in his legs. But a
punch took him and released all that pent energy. He
felt it flow out of him. He tried to fight back, but it
was difficult to keep his arms moving . . .
Back in the dressing room Mac worked on him,
but there was no comfort now in the rhythmical
slapping.
“Mac,” he said suddenly, “I’m gonna get drunk
to-night.”
Mac stopped rubbing. “Listen, kid, don’t let it
git y’ like that. You just ’ad a bit of bad luck.”
“I’m gonna get drunk.”
nr HE lights were low, and in the gloom a spot cut
* a circle in the patch of dance-floor. There was
noise, the shrill voice-noise of half-drunk people, the
steady clink of glasses. Mac looked at the ex-
champion across the small table. The boy was drunk.
It hadn’t taken much. He was staring now across
the floor, his mouth hanging foolishly open, a
cigarette drooping from its corner. He lifted dead,
heavy eyes to Mac. “Why di’n’ya tell me ’bout this
place b’fore. I like it.”
“These places ain’t any good, Micky.”
Micky swung his arm. “I’m good, ain’t I, Mac?
I’m gonna win that title back. I’m good, ain’t I?
I’m like Jimmy Ev’ritt, ain’t I? I’m gonna win it
back, ain’t I? I’m good.” His voice trailed off.
Mac looked at him thoughtfully. He was think-
ing of Jimmy Everitt back in the little room, the
coats on the bed, and dirt under your fingers. “Sure,”
be said, slowly, “you’re like Jimmy Everitt.”
PADDY LENNY
BY HENRY G. LAMOND.
ONE of the most famous men on the Barkly
Tableland was Paddy Lenny, whose body was
found beside the track to Top Spring on his
way to Darwin during ’2O or ’2l. Lenny him-
self was a legendary figure; his horses were real.
In his younger days Lenny had been a good
blade shearer without actually being a “gun.” He
was a big man, rawboned, ready for a fight, a heavy
drinker, with a love Of horses amounting to a passion.
He had a respect amounting to adoration for the Kil-
gour brothers, then owners of Herbertvale and other
properties in the far nor’-west. William Kilgour, later
general manager of Dalgety and Co., was a man
whose word was law with Lenny.
During the early ’nineties Kilgour held some
country on Lorn Greek, between Avon and Alexan-
dria Downs, which he later surrendered to the two big
stations. Lenny could never be convinced, even years
after Kilgour had died, that he did not still own
that area with all rights over it.
About ’94, or a little earlier, Kilgour gave Lenny
the right to take his stock and live on the Lorn
country. The stock then consisted of about 15 mares,
fairly well bred, and a stallion. That was Lenny’s
start; from that nucleus sprang the mobs of horses
which were referred to as “Lenny’s brumbies.” Really,
they were not Lenny’s horses. In that unfenced area
horses were continually going bush, breeding indis-
criminately. Though the then manager of Brunette
had over 300 horses, all running bush, and there were
others with herds, as Lenny was the only man with
no right to the land on which his horses pastured all
wild stock were called Lenny’s.
Paddy would never sell a horse. “Johnny-Cake”
Miller, then buying for Kidman, was reported to
have made Lenny an offer of £8 per head for 150 of
them. Lenny didn’t even consider the offer. Had
he a wife, he would sooner have sold her than part
with any of the nondescript brumby rubbish of which
he claimed ownership.
His horses roamed over Avon Downs, Alexan-
dria, Brunette, worked down the river as far as Lake
Nash. They were unbranded, except in isolated in-
stances, entires, mares and foals. They destroyed
waters reserved for cattle, took their toll of the pas-
tures, lured other horses from drovers’ and station
camps to join their mobs.
The man himself was a study. Though he re-
tained his rawboned appearance, he shrank visibly
through years of hard living. Once a big man, later
he was barely medium-sized. Unshaven, gaunt,
dressed in remnants, with the haunted look of a
hunted animal in his eyes, he was without proper
food nine-tenths of his time, and without money all
the time. He wandered alone, made no friends, dis-
trusted everyone, was hated by the blacks ; his life
was a mystery.
No one has ever solved the problem of how he
lived. A wonderful bushman with a mind as reten-
tive as a ledger, he had bottles of water stored in
hollow limbs of trees on the dry areas. When he did
have rations, which was when a drover handed him
a helping of flour, tea, sugar, Lenny hid them in the
shell of a dead bullock. He knew they were safe there
and that no one would touch them. He rummaged
old camps for cast-off clothing, spare boots, anything
at all which was Worth picking up. The blacks claimed
he killed and ate their goannas.
Many legends grew up about Lenny. It was said
that no man could yard a mob of his horses without
Lenny putting in an appearance. Lenny had once or
twice received notice of intention to muster and had
gone along ; he may have fluked an occasional shot:
it is obvious that in that stretch of country Lenny
could not cover a hundred miles or more at a
moment’s notice.
The mystery of why Paddy Lenny lived also re-
mains unsolved. His horses were frankly rubbish —
as all brumbies are. Stockmen ascribed magical
powers to Lenny’s horses, though they knew in their
hearts that they were of no better quality than, if as
good as, thousands of other wild horses which ran
down the Georgina in Queensland. One generation of
mismating will destroy the lineage of a thousand years.
Lenny’s horses bred indiscriminately for six to ten
generations. After about twenty years they were de-
veloping that unmistakable mark of the brumby the
mule stripe, the small, pricked and pointed ears.
Fencing of the stations about 1915 spelt the end
of Lenny’s horses. They were harrfed, chivvied,
hunted from waters and fenced off. Lenny himself,
a ghostly figure, bearded, in tatters, riding in a saddle
tied together with string and faith, was occasionally
seen drifting over the downs. It would be harsh to
say he was insane ; it would be correct to describe his
condition as mad with grief. Lenny had known what
it was to look down the muzzle of a rifle ; other men
have known what it was to have Lenny at the other
end of the weapon. The wonder is, in those disturbing
days, that Paddy did not run amuck and shoot some of
his pet enemies.
After continuous harassing the law stepped in: a
pound yard was erected at the Rankine police station,
a poundkeeper was appointed ; an effort was to be
made to clear Lenhy from the country, yard his horses.
More than 300 were yarded. Men boasted of what
they would buy at the auction on the morrow, arranged
not to bid against each other, arranged to buy the
old man’s horses at a bob a dozen.
During the night someone —and it could only
have been Lenny—destroyed the back of the yard
which was the pound. Those three hundred-odd
horses were again free, with that much wisdom added
to their stock of knowledge, making them that much
harder to yard next time!
Several other sporadic attempts were made to
yard and sell mobs of Lenny’s horses. Lenny’s star
was on the wane. Men yarded his horses where they
could.
Paddy, an old man, broken with worry, drained
by hard living, could not stand the harassing to which
he was being submitted ; he could not remain a pas-
sive spectator of his beloved horses being destroyed ;
without the spirit and strength of his youth, he could
not combat it physically. Darwin was about a thou-
sand miles away. It was the seat of government.
There were roads for part of the distance, tracks over
some of it, nothing but a bushman’s instinct for hun-
dreds of miles. Top Spring was the first stage. Paddy
started out to seek justice, but he never completed
the long ride.


RUBE ROID AGENTS
are equipped to give you a complete roofing
and flooring service—to quote you for any
type of Ruberoid Roof and to undertake the
work promptly and efficiently.
RUBE RO I D ROOFING
&EVERWEAR j, F LOOR INC.:
EVERWEAR
FLOORING
Permanent floor covering in
three finishes: Red, Grey,
Mica. Guaranteed waterproof
and unaffected by white ants.
Can be laid on any floor
surface, and Is specially suit-
able for verandahs, bath-
rooms and passages.
Representative
Mr. G. L. Wilms, Box 368755, Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents:
BRISBANE: Asphaltes & Allied Products, Ltd., P.O. Box
1139 p. John Reid & Nephews, P.O. Box 198 c.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
PERTH : Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE: A. W. Sandford & Co., Ltd., P.O. Box 418 c.
MELBOURNE: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., 384-96,
Little Collins Street.
SYDNEY: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., Box 3302 pp.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES
throughout New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
hysteria ; Twm, the faithful. To every man the revo-
lution means something different, but all fall under
the hypnosis of violence. It sets up a craving in them
that at last overrides reason.
The action of the story, the plotting in a country
house, the deadly playacting of gun-running, the
attack on Liverpool, a confused battle in the snow on
the Welsh hills, dispersal, flight and the slow inexor-
able rounding up of the fugitives, is a series of scenes
strung loosely and incoherently, but the reader is
aware to the full of the urgency and desperation which
inform the whole.
The end is failure, and failure is an aesthetic neces-
sity. What could the author possibly do with a suc-
cessful revolution ; how end his book? Failure gives
him his finale. All is blackness like the end of a
towering Elizabethan tragedy. One way and another
all the principals are killed except Cargoe, and his
punishment is escape.
The book has quality and imagination and a very
spate of brilliant prose which carries it along at full
speed. Sometimes it is overwritten, especially when
Mary, Cargoe’s wife, and the only woman in the
book, is on the stage. It is a young and headlong
book, well worth reading.
Doctor's Orders.
With its scarlet dust cover and slashing white
lettering Surgeon Extraordinary, by Dr. Loyal Davis
(Harrap), looks like a front-page story of some tre-
mendous scientific discovery, and it also looks rather
like an advertisement for a patent medicine.
The latter illusion is heightened by a testimonial
from a grateful patient—Dr. A. J. Cronin. The book
is the life story of Dr. J. B. Murphy, a leading Ameri-
can surgeon, and Dr. Cronin, thanking Dr. Davis for
letting him read his book about Dr. Murphy, says:
Dr. Davis has a style which is miraculously vital
and a subject which I can only describe as magnificent.
Had this biography come to me in novel form I should
have classed it with such memorable portraits as Arrow-
smith and Elmer Gantry.
That is nonsense. Eve Curie’s life of Mar it
Curie, reviewed on the Red Page some weeks ago, was
miraculously vital in style, magnificent in subject.
Axel Munthe’s Story of San Michele was magnificent.
Cronin, who wrote well himself in Hatter’s Castle,
should know that Dr. Murphy, arrogant, avaricious,
brilliant, hated, could have been made magnificent by
an imaginative novelist, but that in Surgeon Extra-
ordinary, because of the lack of vitality in Davis’s
style, he is remote and colorless.
There were great moments in Murphy’s life for
a jbiographer. His surgical discoveries, mainly ob-
scured in the Tartarus of the abdominal cavity, have
not the ready appeal to the layman of experiments
with radium or monkey glands, but his public life was
full of storm and drama. His first great chance came
when Chicago strikers bombed the police, and Murphy,
working all night long, operated on case after case.
He was accused of publicity-chasing for insisting on
attending to all the patients himself, and was publicly
and privately attacked from that day till the end of his
life. When, powerful and famous, he treated Theodore
Roosevelt for a bullet wound caused by a would-be
assassin, he was brought before the American Medical
Association on charges of unethical conduct. Nothing
came of the trial, but the accusations against him of
limelighting and extortion continued.
Dr. Davis gets his facts out, and the facts are
interesting ; but he is no biographer. He is too gener-
ous to Dr. Murphy and Dr. Cronin is too generous to
Dr. Davis.
Nobody's Autobiography.
There is only one Gertrude Stein and that is a
very good thing a very good thing indeed. But not a
very good thing in a malicious way or only partly in
a way that is malicious but because of time, if time
is passing and it is all in a hurry we have no time to
think about time being passing, that is why Gertrude
likes detective novels the hero is dead and they go
with such a rush, but Gertrude is never in a rush and
so we have time to think about time and about
Gertrude and we have no time at all for that these
days no time at all.
But only partly in a malicious way. When this
review of Everybody’s Autobigraphy (Heinemann)
was beginning to be begun a tall man came in and
said have you got an umbrella. It was raining and he
had no umbrella, there was no umbrella here just
now and we said there is a difference between having
an umbrella and not having an umbrella and also a
difference but perhaps not quite the same difference
between not having an umbrella and having an um-
brella. Umph! Why not? Umph Umph Umph
Umph! He said yes the difference is that you get
wet.
So he went away and bought an umbrella and
came back with the umbrella that he had bought he
brought the umbrella that he had been going out to
buy and he said an umbrella makes you feel like a
man of substance, he was wishing he had spats too.
So the difference between not having an umbrella
and having an umbrella is not that you get wet but
that you either do or do not feel like a man of sub-
stance.
That is very important oh yes it is very impor-
tant and it shows that there is something in Gertrude
Stein there must be if she makes you think like that
and besides it is important sociologically and also
important because of identity which worries Gertrude
a lot. One is not one just like that one is one with
an umbrella i.e. a man of substance or one is one
without an umbrella i.e. a person of no importance
probably without a car too. One is not one one is one
with one’s boots on or off in George-street not to
mention one’s trousers and one is one with one’s
employer and one with one’s wife and one with one’s
boon companions, so it is important because of
identity.
Gertrude had an aunt talking of ones who always
used to count in them, that is if she wanted to count
up to ten she would go one one one one till she got
there. Gertrude also talking of umbrellas knew a
woman who had the only wooden umbrella in Paris,
it would never open of course and it wasn’t the slight-
est use no use at all but it was the only wooden
umbrella in Paris.
But to come back to identity Gertrude only knows
she is she if she is because her little dog knows her
and that is pretty good too, that is good psychology
about identity and about marriage'too. If one goes
home to one’s little dog or one’s little wife and one’s
little dog or one’s little wife says one is not one what
is one to do. Knock at everyone else’s door and ask
if one is home and if one isn’t? However.
Everybody’s Autobiography is like that, about
Gertrude and about time and about identity and a lot
about the world being all covered over with people
now so nobody is anybody nothing to speak of any-
how and so anyone is everyone and that is why her
autobiography is called Everybody’s Autobiography,
and that is why too because nobody is anybody and
everybody is nobody this review is called “Nobody’s
Autobiography.” And only partly in a malicious way.
The only difference between men and animals is
that men can count and animals can’t and men count
money so you can’t count what can’t count money
men.
That bit just slipped in. We were going to tell
about the Autobiography what it is about if it is.
Well it is. It is about Picasso and Mary Pickford
who wouldn’t be photographed because of Gertrude
getting too much publicity and Carl Van Vechten and
her brother and about Mrs. Roosevelt who does or
doesn’t have to curtsy to the Queen but anyhow.
When Gertrude went to White House she says they
had a cup of tea and Mrs. Roosevelt talked about
something and people kept coming and going and
then she went away. Gertrude did.
Well it is all in the Autobiography. About the
French being frightened of the Spanish civil war so
they won’t be having any civil wars themselves just
now probably not just now and about the Chinese ser-
vant who was lonely and said he wanted a comrade
and so they told him to write and get one and he did
he did write and the comrade came and it turned out
to be a big fat Bretonne woman the fattest Gertrude
had ever seen. Well well.
Do not forget that everything is as it is even if it is.
The awful thing about it is that it is. It is all a
question of the outside being outside and the inside
being inside and when everybody is being young and
being pleased about Lo the poor Indian whose
untutored mind shaves off his whiskers and dis-
appoints the wind or being seizing Picasso by the
lapels of his coat and shaking him like a terrier a rat
to make him stop writing bad poetry and get on with
his painting or asking the reporters in America all
about who they are and who their parents were and
how their parents are because it is more interesting
asking questions than being questioned and being a
lion and being back home and glad to be back home
because of the little dog being emphatic about identity
it is all very amusing.
Everybody is in it there is no doubt about that
it is Everybody’s Autobiography and there is a nice
malicious wit so that one has to laugh out loud and
if one isn’t one then there is a stranger in the house
guffawing madly in our armchair and perhaps if he
is he isn’t even if he is. Well anyway.
Reviewed Briefly.
General . . .
Black River of Tibet: John Hanbury-Tracy
(Muller, Ltd.). Interesting travel in Tibet, of the per-
sonal order of such books, the author being more
concerned in conveying the effects of the adventure
on himself than in objective description. He has a
sense of humor and other qualities that make him
good company from page to page.
The Universe of Science, by Prof. H. Levy
(Wafts). Addition to the very good, inexpensive
Thinker’s Library. A clear, but not a mere “popular,”
exposition of what science is about, the part it might
play in human life and the part it does play.
Guide to Sydney (N. S. Wales Bookstall Co.).
Latest edition shows this handy little block, of a book
so well done that it’s interesting to look through quite
irrespective of whether the reader wants to find his
way somewhere or not. It is engagingly illustrated
with sepia-tinted full-page photographs, the collection
of which will give even most Sydneysiders a surpris-
ingly agreeable idea of the place they are lucky
enough to inhabit. Then there are plentiful folded
maps and well-written descriptions. Uncommonly
good value for 2s.
Youngsters’ Fare . . .
Little Pink Crystals: Grace Huxtable (Bodley
Head). Magic, giantesses, cats big enough to ride on
and other results of eating little pink crystals. A well-
told story, reading as if its marvellous occurrences
not only could have but must have happened.
The Magic Train (Bodley Head). The camera
enters into the child-entertainment business and makes
a great success of it. A minimum of letterpress helps
the large page-photographs to tell the story of David
and Joan getting to know a railway guard and going
off for a train ride up in the skies. The fine photo-
graphs include some excellent natural child studies,
and the blurb advertises large copies of them for sale
separately.
Trudi and Hansel: Averil Demuth (Dent).
Quaintly illustrated in color and black-and-white by
Nora Lavrin, this is a charming story of child life
and adventure in the Austrian Tyrol. The writer has
a nice touch of humor and gives it expression through
the behavior of dog, goat, cow and other residents of
the village from which the youngsters set out to
interview a giant, a most surprising giant as it turns
out. A tale of fine quality, quite out of the ordinary.
Penguins . . .
A second vol. of Selected Modern Short Stories.
with stories by Peter Fleming, Richard Hughes, John
Collier, James Hanley, John Gloag and other good
ones, has been added to this capital paperbacks
library. Other additions: Charlton, the autobiography
of Air-Commodore L. E. O. Charlton, finely written
from the viewpoint of a disinterested onlooker ; Nora
Wain’s well-known account of China travel, The House
of Exile; Anne Morrow Lindbergh’s account of her
airman husband’s North Atlantic survey flight; The
Centaur (fiction), by Algernon Blackwood ; and vol.
I of Edward Shanks’s Queer Street.


-t —THE PLAYS OF EURIPIDES. Ten
X complete plays in one volume. Trans-
lated by M. Hadas and J. H. McLean,
499 pages, bound in handsome cloth, with gilt
lettering. Size 9jin. x 2l- for 10/6
(post. 10d.). . ,
The ten plays contained in this volume are a
representative selection. Euripides is seen in all
his versatility as a dramatist. Of all the artistic
creations of Classical Greece the theatre of
Euripides speaks most directly and most intelli-
gibly to the modern man.
—THE CONFESSIONS OF ROUSSEAU.
L Translated from the French by W. Conyng-
ham Mallory. Complete and unabridged. A
fine edition, one of the very few Rousseaus wdh
good readable type. Nicely bound in red cloth,
with colored lettering piece; 1034 pages. 21/-
for 10/6 (post. 1/2).
The Confessions of Jean Jacques Rousseau re-
mains to this day a unique achievement, and will
most probably remain so for ever. Written by the
man himself, it will always be an unsurpassed and
unequalled record of a human life, if only for its
utter frankness.
'j —THE WORKS OF RABELAIS. With
J illustrations by Gustave Dor£. Published by
the Bibliophilist Society. 639 pages, beauti-
fully bound in black cloth, with gilt tooled back.
Size x 6Jin. 30/- for 15/- (post. 1/2).
Large type library edition of the complete
unabridged Rabelais. Faithfully translated and
illustrated with all the drawings by Gustave Dore,
that capture in a very special way the robust
quality of the story.
4— THE GREATEST AUTOBIOGRAPHIES.
Five Sinners and a Saint. The Unexpurgated
Autobiographies of Pompadour, Cellini, De
Quincey, Rousseau, Franklin, St. Augustine. Six
books complete and unexpurgated in one volume,
with six full-page illustrations, black cloth, with
gilt lettering and red top. Size x 6in. 21/-
lor 10/6 (post. lid.).
Few men—or women—have dared to disclose
their inner thoughts or publish a true account of
their private conduct. Of these few, six names
shine like jewels among the world’s literary trea-
sures—Rousseau, Cellini, De Quincey, Pompadour,
Franklin, St. Augustine.
r —THE LIFE OF BENVENUTO CELLINI.
3 Written by himself, edited and translated by
J. A. Symonds, with a biographical sketch of
Cellini by the same hand, together with an intro-
duction upon Benvenuto Cellini, Artist and Writer,
by Royal Cortissoz, with portrait. Two vols. in
one. A handsome volume of 746 pages in red
cloth, with gilt lettering. Size 9£in. x 6iin.
21/- for 10/6 (post. 1/-).
J. A. Symonds in his Introduction says: “His
autobiography is a record of action and passion,
suffering, enjoying, enduring, working with restless
activity; hating, loving, hovering from place to
place as impulse moves him.”
Horace Walpole says: “It is more amusing than
a novel.”
—DROLL STORIES. By Honore de Balzac,
with illustrations by Gustave Dord. Pub-
lished by the Bibliophilist Society, handsomely
bound in black cloth, with decorated back. 682
pages; size lOin. x 6|in. 30/- for 15/- (post. 1/1).
This edition is unexpurgated and is the only
complete authentic edition in the English lan-
guage. It contains all of the characteristic illus-
trations by Dore—an ideal collaboration between
author and artist.
n —THE ADVENTURES OF PEREGRINE
» PICKLE. By Tobias Smollett, M.D., Com-
plete in one volume, with 20 illustrations
by Alexander King, and a most decorative color
jacket by J. A. Maxwell. 648 pages, handsomely
bound in red cloth, with gilt lettering. Size 9|in.
x 6|in. 42/- for 15/- (post. 1/2).
Peregrine Pickle is an extraordinary story about
a delightful fun-loving scoundrel ... a handsome,
swaggering, swashbuckling fellow who sows his
wild oats with an utter disregard for everything but
the intense pleasures of the moment.
8— THE FORTUNES AND MISFORTUNES
OF THE FAMOUS MOLL FLANDERS.
By Daniel Defoe. With eight full-page illus-
trations by John Alan Maxwell and decorative
end-papers. Published by the Bibliophilist Society.
300 pages. Cloth, gilt. Size 9iin. x 6£in. 21/-
for 12/6 (post. 9d.).
This is a most spirited, beautifully and com-
pletely illustrated edition of Moll Flanders. The
artist has captured the charming vulgarity, the
fire, the inescapable human qualities of the heroine.
This edition, which was prepared for the Biblio-
philist Society of New York, is complete and
unexpurgated.
9— BOCCACCIO’S DECAMERON. The
complete and unabridged edition of the
Decameron, illustrated with many fine
plates from etchings. Published by the Biblio-
philist Society. Decorated cloth binding. 320
pages. Size lOin. x 6£in. 30/- for 15/- (post. 1/1).
For the first time the great work which pro-
duced so marked an effect on the romantic litera-
ture of modern Europe is laid before the English
AMAZING
VALUES!
BEAUTIFUL EDITIONS
Nineteen of the World’s GREAT
Books offered to you at GREAT
savings! Each volume in absolutely
new condition, splendidly printed
and handsomely bound.
All to clear at special
reduced prices!
m
/• &
m
>js
-
Sod
reader in a garb which at least does not misrepre-
sent its original features. The edition is complete
and unabridged. Large omissions have been sup-
plied, and brief critical and historical notes have
been appended to most of the novels.
-I —R OXANA, THE FORTUNATE
AU MISTRESS.. By Daniel Defoe. Illus-
trated by John Alan Maxwell. Introduc-
tion by R. Brimley Johnson. Published by the
Bibliophjlist Society. 322 pages, bound in black
cloth, with gilt lettering and decorated end-papers.
Size 9*in. x 6iin. 21/- for 10/6 (post. 10d.).
Defoe drew his heroine from a living model,
the eminently evil Lady Roxana, a creature of the
eighteenth century. The book itself is now firmly
established as one of the classics of the English
language. This elegantly illustrated edition is wholly
unexpurgated.
—RIMSKY-KORSAKOFF. My Musical
Life; a Panoramic View of the Golden
Age of Russian Music. Translated from
the Revised Second Russian Edition by Judah A.
Joffe. Edited with an introduction by Carl Van
Vechten, with 16 fine portraits. A handsomely
bound volume of 360 pages. 25/- for 12/6
(post. 10d.).
Rimsky-Korsakoff: is Russia’s most celebrated
and beloved composer of music. This is his own
story of his dramatic rise to fame, told frankly,
subtly and with beauty.
1 ~ —MEN AND MEMORIES, a History of
X L the Arts, 1872-1922. Being the Recol-
lections of William Rothenstein. Two
volumes in one. 96 illustrations, 795 pages, hand-
somely bound in black cloth, with gilt lettering.
Size 9fin. x 6iin. 31/6 for 15/- (post. 1/4).
With 96 beautiful collotype illustrations of por-
traits, sketches and cartoons by Whistler, Lantree,
Sargent, Max Beerbohm, Rothenstein and others.
A vast storehouse of reminiscences, filled with
names of artists, writers and men of the world.
—THE BROWNINGS. A Victorian Idyll,
Xj) by David Loth, with six full-page plates,
306 pages, bound in red cloth. Size 9£in.
x 6£in. 15/- for 8/6 (post. 9d.).
To-day the Victorian age means antimacassars
and velvet-covered albums. Yet let ah author like
Strachey or Loth flash the searchlight of his style
upon it and the outmoded exteriorities merge
into an intense and moving picture.
-t 4 —THE CELEBRATED CRIMES OF
It' HISTORY. By Alexandre Dumas. Trans-
lated by I. G. Burnham. Illustrated by
Jacques Wagriz, of Paris. Eight volumes, 2284
pages, nicely bound in blue cloth, with emble-
matic gilt tooling. Size Bin. x s£in. £4/4/- for
30/- (freight 2/6).
One of the strangest and most enthralling works
ever published is Dumas’s “Celebrated Crimes, ’
tales of historic crimes, told as only Dumas can
tell them, of love and hate, intrigue and treachery,
mystery and revenge; tales of amours, assassina-
tions, poison schemes and abductions gleaned
from secret archives.
1 r*—FREEBOOTERS AND BUCCANEERS.
JL J Novels of Adventure and Piracy, by Daniel
Defoe, complete and unexpurgated; Being
the Account of the Lives and Adventures of Cap-
tain Singleton—Captain Avery, The King of Pirates
—Jack Sheppard—Jonathan Wild—John Gow—Six
Notorious Street Robbers—The Cartoucheans in
France—A New Voyage Around the World. A
handsome volume of 1138 pages of clear type and
attractively bound in blue buckram; size Biin. x
s*in. 21/- for 10/6 (post. 1/-).
Defoe’s account of the exploits of the famous
criminals of his time, were they not written in such
forceful style, so rich in imagination, might be
taken for actual authoritative records.
1 /-MICHELANGELO THE MAN,
XU by Donald Lord Finlayson (Assistant
Professor of Art, Cornell University). With
20 full-page illustrations. 366 pages, beautifully
bound in black cloth with gilt medal design and
lettering. Size 9*in. x 6iin. 22/6 for 10/6
(post. 10d.). _
The biography of one of the giants of the
Renaissance is aptly titled. Much has been written
about the artist, and great examples of his art
remain; Michelangelo the man has remained
unknown.
n— MASTERPIECES OF ADVENTURE.
Strange happenings in strange places; tales
of conflict and daring by the greatest
authors of all time. Including O. Henry, Hardy,
Bret Harte, Dickens, Jack London, Poe, Steven-
son and many others. Four volumes containing
28 stories, handsomely bound and enclosed in
attractive box. Four vols. 15/- (post. 1/2).
1 q—MASTERPIECES of mystery.
Xo Stories of criminals and the guardians of
the law. Ghost Stories. Blood-curdling
tales tinged with mysticism. Stories mixing mirth
with murder. All from the pens of master writers.
Conan Doyle, Wilkie Collins, De Maupassant,
Mark Twain, Chekhov and many others. Four
volumes containing 37 stories, handsomely bound
and enclosed in attractive box. Four vols. 15/-
(post. 1/2).
THE NATIONAL
ENCYCLOPAEDIA
Usually £l2/10/-
Now
xtrns. **»». XtSXto W* W» W«a<K )*»»: *>W* •«:**:.
'4<sm> mm& ' -xxim- w#**' kxw- Wm* W%* »*»»
AMAZING OFFJER —the National
Encyclopaedia. An up-to-date complete work of reference—with many
beautifully colored full-page plates, maps and thousands of illustrations
in the text. 10 VOLUMES, 6000 PAGES —size 1 x Bin., and
2in. thick. Large clear type; handsomely and strongly bound. £l2/10/-
for 84/-—-only a limited number of sets available at this astounding
low price.
ORDER FORM
Angus & Robertson, Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Please send me the book I have encircled below:
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 16/11 /’3B.


A gift in keeping with Yuletide... send your friends
in England a case 0f ...
FAMOUS AUSTRALIAN
WINES
SEPPELTS ARRANGE DELIVERY... No freight charges to pay!
-
K."
KW :
m
wsm
lilM'iviiii
UJ lil s i f s * i
UPSBIIiIMS
» « l
KX
mm
i
i
MB
f
'
IS
111
*
...
*
BS
. ■
i§
3
mm
I
From Big Ben, showing Westminster Bridge, with London County Council building on left and St. Thomas’s Hospital on right.
Both at home and abroad, Seppelts* wines enjoy a wide
reputation for excellence and purity. They are always
welcome . . . especially are they appreciated on any festive
occasion. What finer or more appropriate gift could you
choose for friends or relatives in Britain? A gift of a case
of Seppelts’ assorted wines carries with it the correct atmo-
sphere of good cheer and fraternity that symbolises the spirit
of Yuletide.
The cases are assorted, containing dry, still and sparkling
wines to your selection. Delivery is made from Seppelts’
London House; thus you have no freight charges to pay.
To each hamper will be attached a card or letter bearing
your personal message.
Prices commence at 36/-, and full details can be obtained
from any of Seppelts Houses.
For full information ring or Write to :
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD
Interstate Branches:
King William Street, Adelaide. Collins Street, Melbourne. Sussex Street, Sydney.
Queen Street, Brisbane. Packenham Street, Fremantle. Crystal Street, Broken Hill.
London- Office: Australia House.


THE THINKERS.
“Africa to Australia in two days. Doesn’t it make you THINK?"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings. 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. ( Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months. 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America. 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4a.
HOMILIES v. DEFENCE.
“People talk as if defence was someone else’s business,
as if the responsibility rested with the Government and not
with the individuals.” — W. M. Hughes.
It would not do from Mr. Menzies, and it will not
do from Mr. Hughes, either. Next we shall have Mr.
Lyons, who was one of the Goverriment which wrecked
Australia’s organisation of trained man-power, tell-
ing Australians that the blame is entirely theirs if
this country is as incapable as China of putting up
a fight against an invader.
If Australia is thus incapable it will be for one
ol the same reasons that apply to China’s unhappy
pickle—that the available man-power has not been
organised, trained and shaped as a fighting unit for
home defence.
In China other conditions apply which are not
applicable to Australia’s case. Taken in the mass
the Chinese is no fighter. That is not necessarily a
disparagement of a noble race ; in a possibly idealistic
conception of mankind it could be praise. In a realistic
conception, however, that is the fact. Even so, the
Chinese w'ould have made a fight of it less contra-
dictory to the Stunt Press boosting of their martial
capacities if only they had been —or could have been
—organised and trained as fighters.
The Australian is under none of the natural or
inbred disabilities of the Chinese. No centuries of a
philosophical outlook which is the complete negation
of the martial outlook have conditioned the national
mind of this new country. On the contrary, for ninety-
nine Australians out of a hundred it has been the
order of conflict from the word go. It is not sur-
prising, in view of this, that we must plead guilty to
a measure of cultural backwardness, and that is no
doubt as deplorable in its way as the martial back-
wardness of the Chinese, who were a highly-cultured
people when the rest of the human race, or most of
it, were barbarians. But there is no question as to
what the order of conflict has done to the fighting
spirit of the Australian character.
The Australian is a fighter born. With no spec-
tacular traditions before them the Diggers proved it.
With the tradition the Diggers established, and the
stirring use that has been made of that tradition, it
is quite on the cards that the inborn fighting fibre of
the race has since become stronger and tougher than
ever. Challenged, with that tradition now at the back
of them, Australians would put up such a fight against
any invader as would stir the world and ring through
history.
There is nothing much wrong with a race of
which that can be said without any sense of boast,
but as a plain matter of fact, supported by the only
sort of proof that has any validity on a battlefield—
the honors of past battles, the appraisals of enemy
leaders. These are fact, worth a ton of theory. They
are so recent as to have a direct influence. There
are still thousands of Diggers walking the earth, and
their sons and other youth of their same quality are
the generality of Australians.
This fighting character is still important.
Machines —guns, ’planes and what not —have altered
the superficial nature of warfare, but it is yet to be
demonstrated that they are everything. The fighting
spirit must be there ; and when Armageddon comes —
as it will —it will be won by the fighters. The machine
will count, but not so much that the man with it will
be of no account.
On that score Australians have a great advan-
tage to begin v/ith. But that, plainly, is not enough.
To let Australians go forth to defend this country
as they are, unorganised, untrained and unequipped,
would be murder. To imagine that invasion could
be delayed while the organising and training were
effected is criminal folly. Organised, trained and
equipped, Australians, by the nature that conflict has
given them, could be depended on for a fighting per-
formance the equal of any ever known. Going forth
to battle in their present state they would be a sacrifice.
It may be a matter of opinion as to what that sac-
rifice would be. The implied —if not the direct con-
tention of sundry political spokesmen is that it would
be a sacrifice to national casualness. That there is a
measure of casualness in the national character few
will deny ; but few, too, will agree that that is the
whole story of Australia’s unpreparedness in man-
power, or even half of the story. In fact, the poli-
ticians’ awareness of that national shortcoming is
itself a major condemnation of their failure as states-
men. Though so aware of the national characteristic
of casualness that they blame it in their everlasting
homilies on Australia’s defencelessness, they are not
statesmen enough to insist that here is a reason why
statesmanship must lead and not merely pad along in
the wake of a supposed national bent, more con-
cerned about a safe seat than a safe country.
No, gentlemen of the legislatures, it won’t do!
You hold, as your utterances prove, that the hopeless
unpreparedness of Australian man-power is the result
of that casualness; yet you are agreeable to letting
this state of things go on, in preference to taking
whatever risks may lie in implementing the mandate
you clearly have. Your Mr. Lyons makes almost a
pious slogan out of his determination that national
service will never be reintroduced while he holds the
reins. You, his supports, make just as pious display
of your echoing approval.
Meanwhile, Australia goes on under a volunteer
arrangement which all the speeches of all the poli-
ticians who are castigating Australian casualness
clearly declare to have been a failure. Because Aus-
tralians are a casual lot, the volunteer system is a
failure ; nevertheless, we, your statesmen, will stick to
the proved failure rather than reintroduce the measure
which made the A.I.F. possible. It is donkey’s logic.
Millions and millions are being spent as the
measure of past neglect of merely necessary arma-
ments. There is a risk, with the prevailing hysterics,
that a lot of it will be foolishly spent, but the need
for considerable expenditure no one questions, and
no one grumbles at the burden. When it is all spent,
and millions more on top of it, Australian defence
will remain a mockery ; a shell of pretence without
backing.
Homilies, Mr. Hughes, are not enough. Your
volunteer system, Mr. Lyons, is a washout. Without
the proper organising and training, as well as the
equipping, of Australia’s available man-power there
will never be defence.
Another for Roberts.
Mr. Roberts, the political professor and professorial
newspaper-writer, is at it again. Mr. Roberts wrote
a book, (“the manuscript left my hands on June 1,
1937”), in which he committed himself to a series of
cocksure pronouncements and prophecies. With start-
ling suddenness events made them ridiculous.
Hitler has achieved only one diplomatic victory—•
the Saar. None of the other lost lands have been won
back. Indeed, the prospect of their reincorporation
has never been worse.
Schuschnigg achieved a great success.... Austria
wants Germanism but not Hitlerism Gone is the
fighting faith in an Anchluss [union with Germany].
It is indeed doubtful if the great mass of Sudeten
Germans would favor a secessionist movement against
the Prague Government If Germany persists in want-
ing to absorb the Sudeten Deutsche [Germans] it means
war.
Old Garvin, of the “Observer,” warned his
countrymen repeatedly that “Czechoslovakia, whose
very name is artificial, will either exist on terms of
friendship and co-operation with Germany or cease
to exist.” But to Mr. Roberts “such fantasies were
absurd.”
Czechoslovakia is enormously wealthy and strong
Her Slavonic populations are bitterly anti-Nazi.
Imaginative strategists talk about a German invasion
breaking down Czech resistance before France and Russia
could come to their aid They completely fail to take
into account the consolidation of power and morale in
Czechoslovakia in the last 15 years. Czechoslovakia
is far more likely to hold the ridges from Eger to the
Oder.
Hitler’s activities have drawn his enemies more
closely together than ever before... .To-day Germany
stands encircled.... Russia and France and Czechoslo-
vakia are closer friends than ever If ever there was
a country without friends, that country is Germany
to-day.
Rubbish from the first line to the last; and “the
Slavonic populations” which Mr. Roberts found so
bitterly “anti-Nazi” are falsifying his account of
them at a great rate. But, instead of hiding himself
in a hollow log, this exploded “authority” on foreign
affairs continues to pose as Sir Oracle in public prints.
He does the leading article—the only leading article
—for the Sydney “Mail,” and a strangely complaisant
senate permits the lucubration to be identified with
its Alma Mater —a line spread across a page certifies
that it is “By Professor S. H. Roberts, Challis Profes-
sor of Modern History, the Sydney University.”
On October 26 the Great I Am discussed the pos-
sibility of an “aerial attack” on Australia.
This, like gas attack, is fortunately remote. If enemy
bases come no nearer to Australia than geography allows
them at present, we appear to be safe.
Within twelve days the Vickers-Wellesley bombers, by
flying non-stop from Egypt to the Commonwealth,
had made nonsense of that.
In the issue of November 9 Mr. Roberts returned
to the more congenial subject of the dictators and
their associates, such as “the fat, beribboned” Goring,
“the warped little Dr. Goebbels, so unpopular and
detested,” “the somewhat arrogant and intolerant”
Ciano, “headstrong and humorless,” and Vittorio Mus-
solini, “carousing with Hollywood celebrities.” “One
problem,” he asserted, “is intriguing many people.”
What would happen if any of the dictators were to
meet a natural or, quite as likely, an unnatural death?
By the nature of things, dictators are even more liable
to encounter a sudden end than most people. In the
seventeenth century an English political pamphleteer
wrote a tract entitled “Killing No Murder,” and is there
one amongst us who has not wondered why some Parlia-
mentarian has not killed Mussolini, and some Com-
munist or Jew disposed of Hitler?
There must be many “amongst us” who would
disdain to indulge in that morbid kind of speculation.
They know well enough that an anti-Cromwell fanatic
wrote “Killing No Murder” ; but they know too that
assassination as a political weapon has been aban-
doned by British peoples for centuries, and they expect
the same standard to be maintained by other civilised
nations. In the time of the Romanoffs an oft-
inebriated English poet wrote of Russian politics that
“Night has one red star, Tyrannicide.” The line was
flatly condemned by the public, and the poet was
rejected by the Court.
While this Roberts article was in the press, a
Jewboy who had soaked his mind in newspaper reports
of Nazi atrocities and, according to an angry Hitler,
British politicians’ speeches shot the secretary to the
German Embassy in Paris. The official is dead, and
there is the devil to pay. In Germany synagogues
were fired and shops were wrecked. Savagery breeds
savagery, as even a Roberts might be expected to
know.
Newspaper failures and amalgamations and radio
competition have been hard on trained journalists,
and those who are unemployed grow bitter when they
see so much newspaper space which they could fill
competently handed over to university professors,
'hired and billed as such. University senates evidently
take the view that this professorial competition in a
restricted field is no business of theirs. But it is
their business —and it also concerns those who vote
public money to universities —especially when their
institutions are dragged into blurbs for or introduc-
tions to professorial articles, and are thus associated
with writings like’those of Mr. Roberts. Sydney
University permits the newspaper employers of Mr.
Roberts to use its name to advertise his articles. Can
it possibly regard the stuff he has perpetrated as an
advertisement for the university?
No Longer Isolated.
Five years have witnessed a revolution in non-stop
flying. In 1933 the best performance was 4500 miles.
Squadron-leader Gayford then set a record of 5340
miles with a Fairey military transport machine —
from England to Walfisch Bay, in S. Africa. French-
men extended the distance to 5637 miles. That figure
stood until Russians flew across the Pole to Cali-
fornia, 6305 miles. As a nonstop effort this has been
questioned, though accepted at the time by inter-
national authorities.
The record now belongs to the R.A.F. men who
flew two Vickers-Wellesleys from Ismailia to Darwin,
7162 miles, in a trifle over 48 hours. A third machine
landed at Koepang after breaking the Russian record,
and came on to Darwin. Vickers-Wellesleys are not
large in military terms, though in wing span they are
sligntly bigger than any land-transport aeroplanes in
use in Australia. Among the battle bombers they are
quite small fry. Single-engined, they are not nearly
so fast or so formidable as some of the first-line
fighter-bombers which have recently been built in
England, but to Australia they introduce something
new in aerial warfare.
They are the first geodetic machines built on
the Wallis principle. This involves a basket-weave
method of construction, enables all stresses to be
carried on the body surface, and eliminates the need
for internal struts and stays, thus lightening the
machine immensely and giving it a greater available
cubic content and wider range.
Mention of these machines was here made nearly
three years ago. Since then they have been put
through exhaustive experimental tests, and the method
on which they are built will doubtless be applied to
much faster and larger machines, some of them with
a greater range than 7200 miles.
The arrival of the Vickers-Wellesleys brings home
to Australians that their country, from a defence point
of view, has ceased to be isolated by the sea. Hitherto
it has been barely possible for very large aeroplanes
with careful preparation and special reconstruction
to fly from Singapore to the Australian coast and back
without refuelling. But these single-engined ’planes
can do the job as a normal performance with a margin
of 2000 miles.
On their flight, the Vickers-Wellesleys ’left the
Federated Malay States round about 11 a.m. eastern
standard time, and were in Australia 16 hours later.
Machines capable of 200 miles an hour could have
been over northern towns in the same time. Leaving
Asia late in the afternoon for a bombing raid next
morning, they would have been able to fly back with-
out landing.
Stratosphere flying will make raiding squadrons
bound on such errands almost impossible to detect.
And within five years we shall have to reckon not
only with growing range and speed of air vessels, but
with vaster size. A design for transatlantic airliners,
submitted by one of the five leading aircraft con-
structors in the U.S.A., envisages a ship of 168,0001 b.
weight, capable of carrying 120 passengers at a pinch
and ranging over 5000 miles at 200 m.p.h.
A squadron of this calibre, operating from Singa-
pore, and backed by freight-transport ’planes, could
land a battalion a night, fully armed and fed, in popu-
lated eastern Australia.
EL VERDUGO.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Reconstruction at Canberra.
No reconstruction of the Ministry would have pleased
the New Journalism, which issued so many contradic-
tory demands for the appointment of this person and
the dismissal of that, and it is very evident that Mr.
Lyons did not try to please it. Indeed he kept Mr.
Thorby in the Cabinet in defiance of the New Jour-
nalism, though Mr. Thorby has been relieved of actual
control of the fighting services, and of munitions
supply. For these Mr. Street, M.H.R. for Coranga-
mite since 1934 and recently named Parliamentary
Secretary for Defence, is to be responsible. After
long experience of Defence Ministers who have seen
nothing of war, Australians will be relieved to have a
Defence Minister who knows a good deal about it,
having been in the A.I.F. from the beginning to the
end.
Mr. Thorby is to be Minister for “Civil Aviation,
Defence Works and Other Works.” He is full of energy,
though short of tact, and he can expect a fair deal
from the nation, though he won’t get one from the
New Journalism. Mr. Cameron, who was Assistant
Minister for Commerce, becomes Postmaster-General.
Like Mr. Thorby, he is a Country party man, and for
that reason metropolitan newspapers and blah mer-
chants have got him “set.” His showing as Assistant
suggests that he is the makings of a good Minister.
Senator McLeay has also deserved promotion ; he has
been named Vice-President of the Executive Council
and will lead for the Government in the Senate.
Then, obviously in consultation with Dr. Page,
Mr. Menzies and Mr. Casey, the P.M. decided that
there should be “an Inner Cabinet, to deal with
matters of high policy.” It is not a bad idea, for in
all Administrations three or four men do nearly all
the thinking and planning, but it led to an immediate
rumpus.
It was given out that the Inner Cabinet would
consist of Messrs. Page, Menzies, Casey, Hughes,
Thorby and the P.M. At once there were protests
that it would be ridiculous to include the Minister for
Defence Works and exclude the Minister for Defence ;
and Mr. Lyons agreed that the Minister for Defence
should go in. Then Mr. White, the Minister for Trade
and Customs, was heard from. Mr. White had been
sworn in again as Minister for Trade and Customs,
but he wanted to know why he had been left out of
the Inner Cabinet and also why Mr. Casey, the
Treasurer, had been given precedence over him. When
the House met, Mr. White was found sitting on a back
cross-bench.
Granted leave to make a statement, Mr. White
read a letter to the Prime Minister stating that his
position had been made “untenable” and that he had
resigned. Then Mr. Lyons read a letter to Mr. White
stating that “the resignation would be accepted as on
and from to-day,” and mentioning that “at Govern-
ment House you indicated your annoyance at the
Treasurer being placed above you in the order of
precedence.”
Both gentlemen were very angry, but next day
they had calmed down and each testified to his great
respect for the other. Perhaps the impertinences of the
New Journalism had left the Prime Minister bewildered
as well as resentful. Anyway, Mr. Perkins is now in
Mr. White’s place, and Mr. Harrison is an Assistant.
One result of the reconstruction is that Australia
is to have a seventy-fourth Minister. Another Com-
monwealth appointment may be justified, but in
common justice to the taxpayers it should be accom-
panied by the sacking of at least ten State Ministers.
News from Prague.
“Reviewing the overseas news service supplied to Associ-
ated Press members and subscriber newspapers and to radio
stations during the year, Mr. Keith Murdoch said that the
best test of its value was the reputation the service had
earned.”
Precisely, Mr. Murdoch ; but there is room for other
tests. For example, tests might well be applied to a
“final balance sheet,” taken from a “Prague news-
paper,” and communicated to the Australian public
by Associated Press organs.
Before the Munich agreement Czechoslovakia com-
prised 364,000 square miles, with a total population of
15,300,000. Of those totals, 73,000 square miles, with
3,600,000 population, have gone to Germany, 3100 square
miles, with 1,000,000 population, to Hungary, and 2600
square miles, with 230,000 population, to Poland.
In other words, before Munich Czechoslovakia
was about as big as Germany, including the Saar, but
not Austria (181,699 square miles), Italy (119,714
square miles), England (50,874 square miles) and Bel-
gium (11,775 square miles) put together.
The Statesman's Year Book, 1938, gives the area
of Czechoslovakia before Munich as 54,244 square
miles. But what’s an error of 310,000 miles or so to
our Glorious Press? And why shouldn’t it give the
Germans lj times the whole country if some unnamed
person in Prague hears a vague rumor to that effect?
Communism Comes of Age.
November 7 was the twenty-first birthday of the
U.S.S.R., and as such it was —and still is—celebrated
by writing men, lady politicians, dilettantes and pro-
fessional agitators throughout the world.
Few of the heroes who made the revolution were
present at the anniversary. Lenin, Sverdlov, Dzerzhin-
sky, Zinoviev, Bukharin and a dozen more who were in
the front line are dead—bulleted, for the most part,
by comrades whom their initiative placed in power.
Trotsky and others are in exile with prices on their
heads. Men who were in the second and third ranks
have come to the front. But there is unceasing
“liquidation” of men and of policies.
Plans and planners come and go. The Red Army
itself has a new lot of leaders, the old lot having been
found to be “Trotskyist wreckers” and “Fascist spies.”
It may still be capable of defending Russians against
Russians, but for its boasted striking power Europe
and Asia alike have recently exhibited boundless
contempt.
After 21 years the U.S.S.R. is a collection of alleged
Republics run by Asiatics for Asiatics. In its outlook
on the rights of individuals and on the sanctity of
human life, it stands somewhere between the Europe
of King John and that of Henry VIII. No organisa-
tion since the world began has expended so much
money or so much effort in advertising itself and its
alleged virtues as the Russian Communist party. No
organisation has shown such anxiety to liquidate other
peoples’ politicians and rulers, blow up other peoples’
cathedrals, destroy other peoples’ Constitutions.
Wherever it has established itself formidably—in
Hungary, Italy, Germany, China, Spain, Czecho-
slovakia —Communism has brought civil war, desola-
tion, dissolution or —for itself and its dupes—defeat.
It is hated and despised most by neighbor-nations of
the old Russian Empire, by democratic little Finland
above all. In Finland to be a Communist is to be an
outlaw.
Transport in Queensland.
Queensland has acquired a new Transport Act, and
is to have a Transport Commission of three members,
with “a definite transport policy.” Personnel and
policy have yet to be announced, but the Premier has,
in effect, informed employees of the Railway Depart-
ment that they can no longer regard themselves as
privileged monopolists and must be prepared to sell
service. The recommendation of the 1936 royal
commission that the Commissioner of Railways should
have control of traffic routes is definitely rejected.
Other desirable attributes are powers for the limi-
tation of driving hours and the formulation of pre-
cautions for securing safety to passengers. A ghastly
smash-up of a licensed truck carrying week-end pas-
sengers to a seaside resort occurred while the bill
was in the committee stage, and emphasised the latter
need. Certificates of driving competency may be
cancelled or withdrawn by direction of a Judge or
magistrate. A rather sketchy clause admits the im-
portance of road transport under war emergency.
Other new provisions are less reassuring. Intra-
State water-borne traffic is brought under the com-
mission’s control, and water traffic routes may be
declared. A rather vaguely expressed duty of the
commission is that of “recommending” provision for
air-services for the community “in cases of emer-
gency” and “within the limits of its authority to ensure
that air travellers are protected against unnecessary
risks.” Which looks rather like an attempt to hedge
on the recent legislation which handed over such
matters to the Commonwealth.
And the new Act embodies all the dragnet
powers with which the former Transport Strangula-
tion Board was armed. There is to be no appeal from
the commission’s decisions, nor will the commission
be under any obligation to justify them ; and there is
no provision for public hearing of applications to
operate services. The commission may seize and sell
vehicles in default of fees or fines, irrespective of com-
mercial or common law. The Act provides for fines
up to £lOO where no other penalty is specified, and
to £lO daily in continuance. Fees can be anything
the commission likes.
In that it seems to afford a reasonable hope of
getting rid of an utterly tyrannous system of control,
the Act is welcomed by Queensland motor-transport
people. Except in routine matters, no decision of the
commission is to take effect until approved by the
Minister. The Minister is Mr. Dash, who achieved a
certain fame through the activities of the Transport
Strangulation Board, and who recently announced
that road motor competition with Government rail-
ways does not really exist. It will thus depend wholly
upon Ministerial policy and decision whether or not
the Queensland public is to have speedy and con-
venient road-transport with all its valuable effect upon
settlement, industry, distribution and marketing of
perishable food materials, and the many other ameni-
ties which the Government railways do not and cannot
provide in full measure.
The Father of His Country.
Written by a man who met him:
The death of Kamal Ataturk creates new problems in
the Middle East, because nobody can guess what Turkey
will be without its ideal dictator.
Kamal, a Salonika Mussulman, began life in a side street.
He became an able scholar and officer, but he was regarded
as a political failure in the days of the Young Turks, and
when the Great War broke out he had been relegated to a
minor job as military at Sofia. Though known to be
against the war, he was sent to the Dardanelles in command
of a division, the 19th. The Anzacs can testify to his
qualities as a soldier and to his sportsmanship.
But his success won him nothing, since Enver Pasha hated
him. He reached 1918 apparently a discredited man with no
future. Within three years he was on the way to build
a new country out of a Turkey which had been stripped of
more territory, proportionately to its size and population, than
any other belligerent country.
Lloyd George was backing the Greeks. They swept into
European Turkey, and held as well the most fertile parts of
Asia Minor. Kamal met the Greeks on the Sakaria River,
which flows by old Nicaea, south of Bithynia. There, at the
end of a three weeks’ battle, the Greeks broke and the new
Turkey was born.
From 1923 onward Kamal was in complete control of
what at first seemed an unhopeful destiny. All that was left
to Turkey was the Anatolian Peninsula. Most of it was
bleak, 4000 ft. high, swept clean of timber, the soil eaten out.
The bulk of the rural inhabitants lived in one-room mud
huts. The towns were disease- and crime-ridden aggregations
of hovels; the industries of the richer areas along the coast
—raisins in particular—were facing new competition.
Of the two great cities, Smyrna had been sacked and
Constantinople had lost 500,000 people within a few years.
In four years there was a new capital at Ankara, and
there was an efficient gendarmerie. Kamal had made the old
roads safe and was building modern highways. He had
established markets and set up clinics. He had abolished
plural marriage, the fez and the yashmak. Inhabitants of
Constantinople who had looked on amazed at a workman in
a pot-hat repairing the interior of St. Sophia’s dome were
treated to the even more extraordinary spectacle of young
Turkish girls with uncovered faces selling lottery tickets to buy
aircraft.
The old Turkish alphabet gave place to a Roman one.
Universal education came in. The law was based on the
Swiss code, and Kamal’s writ ran from one end of Asia Minor
to the other. The compulsory health measures gave Turkey
a great increase of population.
It has been the fashion to brand Kamal as a ruthless
despot. In the brief period of the Greek war and in the
pacification period he was sometimes cruel by European, but
not by Turanian, standards. He achieved his success without
swashbuckling.
He was tolerant to ex-enemies. British residents who had
fled the country at the outbreak of war were received back
as friends. Three years after the Greek war Greeks were every-
where in Turkish commerce, and treated with consideration.
Kamal sought no return of territory from the Allies; he had no
pan-Turkish or pan-Turanian programme; he was content
to make the best of the constricted area which the war had
left him to mould. All his later contacts with the outside
world tended towards peace. Met half-way he renewed the
old friendship with Britain. He refrained from interfering
in the politics of the Syrian, Iranian and Palestinian mandates
which contained millions of old Turkish subjects and whose
disturbances must sometimes have proved a great temptation
to an ambitious man.
Kamal is dead, and the New Journalism brands him as
“vicious and licentious” in his private life. Well, he didn’t
look it. When I saw him in 1927 he seemed in the pink of
physical condition, and would have passed for a man 10 years
younger. Piercing grey eyes, clear skin, athletic body carry-
ing no superfluous flesh, he might have stood as a model
for an ancient Greek. And his tastes were simple. When
he was in Istanbul you could see him knocking round the
Bosphorus, shirt-sleeved, in a modest open motor-boat, looking
much like any Sydney motor-boatman on the Harbor.
In Defence of the Jew.
It was written in Sydney':
“M.S.” (B. 2/11/ ’3B) does not like Jews. Here’s one Jew
that does not like “M. 5.,” and here’s why. •
“M.S.” sneers at Austrians who expressed relief at
arriving in Australia. But if they included the man who, when
he asked the Nazi whither he might turn for refuge, was told
“The road to the Danube is open—and the Danube is deep,”
or if they included some of the women who were forced to
strip off their own garments and wash out the public lava-
tories or merely those who had a hundred yards of main road
to wash with a toothbrush, they may have been sincere.
He says the Jews “put a higher valuation on money-
making than do other races.” But do the Americans and
Germans and French, quoted as non-persecuted people, despise
moneymaking? Does “M.S.” himself protest when the boss
gives him a rise? Outside of the priesthood (of many denomi-
nations) I have yet to meet many men who did not value
moneymaking, if only as a game.
It is true that Jewish artists make money by playing,
perhaps the compositions of Gentiles; and Gentile artists make
money by playing, perhaps the compositions of Jews. Are
either the less admirable for thus exploiting their virtuosity?
The parable of the middleman’s nephew is entertaining
but not apt. Nephew had literary ambitions, which evaporated
when he inherited uncle’s business. This seems to have
annoyed “M.S.” or, at least, to have reduced him to incom-
prehensibility. Would he have liked the nephew better if he
had turned over the estate to the Master in Probate (or
perhaps to “M.S.”), the while declaiming “No, I will con-
tinue to try to find the greater happiness that will come when
I can write ‘one little poem’ ” ? Clearly being an intelligent
man, nephew stuck to the fortune and bought his little poem!
Finally, “M.S.” accuses the Jew of isolating himself.
Doesn't he believe that there are countries where the Jew
would welcome a little isolation? But what does he mean?
“M.S.” gets closest to being constructive when he asks
that the Jews search within themselves for reasons why they
are persecuted. This is an analysis that I am prepared to
make if he will permit me to take the whole of history as
my laboratory and not merely Germany, where Jews share their
unenviable distinction with many a conscientious Quaker or
other nonconforming citizen of that country, where all must
conform or perish.
Over the whole of history, then, it is widely agreed that
Jews have been subjected to persecution because, firstly, of
their religious difference from the majority. The Blood Libel
dies hard. For this difference, they were segregated in their
Ghettoes. They were debarred from owning land or entering the
trade guilds. But they were offered occupations which were
either disdained by the cultured Christians or forbidden them
by the church. Thus the Jews became traders and money-
lenders, and their inherited skill in these occupations offends
all the “M.S.’s.”
Another cause of offence —and so anti-Semitism —is their
astuteness or cunning or intelligence debased solely to the
pursuit of money. (Shades of Hertz, Ehrlich, Freud and
Einstein—in so far as they have shades—forgive me!) In the
countless massacres to which the Jew was subjected, who was
it that escaped? The strong of arm? The fleet of foot? No,
the nimble of wit. The survival has not been of the fittest,
but of the brainiest—and brains have, it would seem, bred
true to type. Once again, then, circumstances of which he
was not the chooser are recorded against the Jew as offence.
There is still a third major factor —and this one is the
fault of the Jew. He does not conform. Where the Gentile
bares his head and prays on Sunday, the Jew dons a cap
and prays on Saturday. The flesh of the pig is good enough
for the Gentile; the Jew dares to say that it is unclean. And
so on, and so on . . . Well, these things are true, generally if
not universally, but there is a reason for them all. And
reason, or cold logical examination, scarcely suggests that they
are adequate reasons for pogroms, whether physical or mental
or merely literary.
The Jew does not, as “M.S.” suggests, exhibit his self-
pity and look for sympathy. He doesn’t even ask the police-
man to have arrested the fellow who dislikes him! He asks
the world which has permitted him to survive for 4000 years
to let him live on in peace, or, if “M.S.” prefers it, in isolation.
He asks for no privilege that is not given to any other member
of the human race —and to most of the domestic animals.
Will “M.S.” deny him?


Soiety
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T.”: I can’t get used to the flapper-
papers’ fashion of referring to cricket-
girls by their surnames when they refer
to tennis-girls by their Christian names
or pet names. This is the kind of thing
I mean:
Archdale opens the innings for Comp and
Kent and keeps wickets for Comp....
Belton is a fast bowler Collins is one
of the most promising of the younger
players Morgan, is a much-improved
wicketkeeper. Is a steady batswoman
Lowe is a medium-pace bowler, and played
for Midlands v. Australia.... McLagan is
an all-rounder, an opening bat and slow
bowler. She is a member of the Cuckoos
Club, so called because of the cuckoos
heard round the ground Hide and Mc-
Evoy are of medium pace.
“Of medium pace.” Somehow it doesn’t
sound right.
* * * *
“Rastus”: Melbourne’s latest inno-
vation is canned dog and cat dinners.
The idea arose out of necessity. It
appears that the butchers of a suburb
got together one day at a picnic and
found they were all suffering from the
same complaint. They each had several
customers who bought nothing but dog
or cat meat. It got so bad that some
of the more “service minded” were
slicing into the best cuts for the pets.
The trouble was particularly bad on
busy Saturday mornings when roast-joint
customers were kept waiting until the
pets were catered for. One of the party
got the bright idea of canning enough
pet meat to last a week or so. A little
company was formed, and was successful.
At first its products were to be bought
at butchers’ only, but now all manner
of shops—even chemists’ —are selling it
briskly.
* * * *
“Mac”: These war-scarers! Poster
displayed outside evangelists’ canvas
tabernacle in our village bears the
startling announcement: “Armageddon
—When? Where? —Here Next Sunday.”
* * * *
“Mossy”: John Henniker Heaton (B.
9/11/ ’3B) did his town-clerking at Parra-
matta before he had reached his
eighteenth birthday, which probably
accounts for his brief tenure of the office.
He found employment shortly after-
wards on the outside staff of Sydney
“Evening News,” and it was then that he
met and married a daughter of the
wealthy Bennett family, owners of the
prosperous sheet. A baronetcy two
years before his death crowned his
political career, in the course of
which he represented Canterbury for 20
years. Henniker Heatons used to
occupy much space in old-time navy
and army lists. One member of the
clan was a shipmate of “Bubbles” James
(now Admiral Sir William) in a former
Australian flagship ; his brother, at about
the same time, was a C.O. cadet on the
Governor of Fiji’s staff.
* * * *
“Kandy”: It’s hard to stop this doping
of runners. Just before a race at our
up-country school sports a determined-
looking lady dashed into the dressing-
shed and demanded “Where’s Georgie?”
“Here I am, Auntie,” replied an under-
sized youngster. “Open your mouth,”
commanded Auntie ; “swallow these! ”
She fumbled in her handbag, thrust
something into Georgie’s mouth, and
stood by while he gulped. “What’s that
you’re giving him?” asked a near-by
parent with interest. “Just a coupla
aspirins.” said Auntie, departing. “They’ll
buck him up wonderful.” Georgie, a
rank outsider, won, and the only stall-
holder on the ground was astonished by
a sudden rush for aspirins, which he
didn’t stock. But he will next year.
* * * *
“Cairngorm”: An up-country family
recently acquired a cook who came frae
north o’ the Tweed. Economy with her
was a cardinal principle. On her first
day Janet was called upon to deal with
an egg the yolk whereof was unfit for
use by reason of a black clot on it.
Janet carefully separated yolk and white,
put the yolk on a saucer, used the shell
and what adhered to it for clearing the
soup for dinner, beat up the white to top
“Our broadcast will take the form of a Welcome home to Spike Doogans, who is returning for another
twenty years."
a meringue, and invited the grocer next
day to view the defective yolk. He
immediately provided another egg. Janet
has a job for life.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: “Jaby,” in his paragraph
about the rescue of Varischetti from a
flooded Westralian mine over 30 years
ago (B. 9/11/ ’3B), says that Hughes was
“the only available miner who had ex-
perience as a diver.” But, as far as my
memory serves, Hughes wasn’t a miner,
nor was he on the spot or anywhere
near it. He was requisitioned from Fre-
mantle, along with the necessary diving
apparatus and one or two others who
knew how to use it. Harry Gregory,
then Minister for Mines at Perth, and
now a Federal M.H.R., received a
decoration from the Italian Government
for the promptitude with which he had
acted in the matter —he was made a
Chevalier of something-or-other. Hughes
got a lot of nine days’ hero-worship and
much less financial reward than a suc-
cessful cricketer may count on these
days.
* * * *
“K.Mc.”: Revolqtionary reform is
taking place in the police administration
of country areas in N. S. Wales. Con-
stables in charge of one-man stations are
being removed and these districts con-
trolled from their inspectorial centres by
wireless patrol cars similar to those used
by the'city police. When called by head-
quarters, patrols will hook up telephonic
apparatus on the nearest telephone line
to reply. In this way officers will be
continuously within call. Patrolling
police will attend to office work at
stations from which resident police have
been removed. Theory seems to be that
police stationed at one centre for years
have too often turned a Nelson eye to
offences like s.p.
“Ike Hollar”: An advertisement invit-
ing Australian verse-writers to send along
efforts suitable for musical settings to a
London firm excited my curiosity, and I
posted some verses. The reply was
prompt; two of the efforts would make
good songs and the firm would have
them set to music and market the
result if I would forward £l6 to cover
the costs of one, or £3l for the two.
If I had £l6 I wouldn’t be a poet.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: When dirty-
faced kids come begging for “a penny
for the grotto,” I always feel a fresh
spot of sympathy for the unlucky chap
who started the confounded November 5
show, and has been execrated for 333
years as the biggest criminal in English
history. A Yorkshire gentleman, and a
distinguished officer in the Spanish Army
of Occupation in the Low Countries, with
a well-earned reputation for courage and
integrity, Guy Fawkes was made a scape-
goat for the real villain, Catesby, and
framed by the treacherous Francis Tren-
cham. The anonymous and ambiguous
letter which warned Mounteagle is still
to be seen in the Public Records Office
in Gray’s Inn-road. It was timid, lolling-
tongued King Jamie who guessed what
was meant by it. The “grotto” is a
mystery to me—does it symbolise the
coal-store in which the explosives were
laid? In my small-boy days it was
“a penny for the guy,” and there was no
grotto in the picture.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The longish arm of coinci-
dence enabled F. Ashworth, of Mel-
bourne, to do a service for an Austrian
Jew. The Jew, a banker of Vienna,
wanting to come to Australia, re-
membered that a relative named Borer
had preceded him many years ago.
Looking up a Melbourne directory he
found the name of the firm of which
Ashworth is principal and addressed his
letter to “Mr. Borer, Borer and White
Ant Exterminating C 0.,” asking his rela-
tion to support his application for a
permit. Ashworth replied by cable:
“Borer supporting permit. Hopeful of
success. Love to all. Borer.” This
satisfied the Viennese authorities, and a
few months later the Jew and the Aus-
tralian were shaking hands on the wharf
in Melbourne.
* * * *
“Plotolog”: The Plot Genie men-
tioned by “H.W.” (B. 2/11/ ’3B) may
have aroused longings in the minds of
pen-chewing writers for such an easy
way of finding matter upon which to
base a story. Sigh no more! Any
writer who needs one can easily make
a very efficient “plot catalogue” if he
possesses Roget’s Thesaurus and a pin.
Take the Synopsis of Categories to be
found in the first few pages of that work,
and, having found the suitable category
for each of the plot requisites, locale,
lover, beloved, complication, predica-
ment, crisis, climax or whatever you con-
sider the essentials —make a blind stab.
The result will be a story which only
needs to be written.
* * * *
“Dhas”: When a revolver suddenly
bangs in a play or a woman screeches
in a talkie thriller, I always feel that it’s
an unscrupulous attack on my nerves
and too easy a way of creating tension ;
but eight loud bangs in a Sydney play-
house the other night upset all my canons,
It was the play “Boyd, of Boyd Town” ;
the principals of the prologue were
holding a sort of shire-council meeting
on the stage; suddenly there was a
terrific explosion, all tjie lights went out,
a woman in the audience screamed.
Then the lights came on, the stage was
a ship, the actors were talking. Bang!
went unoiher gun More talking. Bang!
went another gun. More talking. Bang!
went another gun. Thinking it over
later, when I was skulking in safety
under the bed at home, I realised that
the bombardment was not meant to
create alarm, but had merely been a
realistic representation of the salute fired
to welcome Boyd’s yacht as she sailed
up Sydney Harbor. It made it all the
more piquant that the play had been
staged on Guy Fawkes night,
*** * •
“Ex-Mister”: “Golden Mile (B.
2/11/’3B) considers that use is everything
in not being scared by heights, but per-
sonal experience indicates some deeper
factor, psychological or physical. There
is no job aloft that I haven’t done in
square or fore-and-aft rig, day or night,
in any weather, and without a thought
of height or risk. Ashore, too, I could
stand with toes over a 100 ft. parapet, or
walk a girder in a breeze with any bridge
hand. Then, at 44, staying with a N.Q.
friend who had swallowed the anchor,
I crossed on the sleepers of a single-
track skeleton railway bridge which
afforded a short cut across a deep rocky
gorge. Half-way over I glanced down into
the 50ft. drop and got my first experience
of height-fear. He had to come back
and help me through the other half.
The return journey was pure funk-effort
and the hopeless courage of despair. I
can tackle heights fairly well now, but
never with the same unthinking confi-
dence. A possible explanation is that I
was convalescing from a bad dose of
malaria when it happened.
* # * *
“Perry”: The inspector was visiting
our up-country school and, being in the
wheatbelt, was trying to induce the
children to give him the life history of
a grain of wheat. He had got as far as
the ripening. “And now what does your
father do when the wheat’s ripe?” he
asked, addressing a damsel of eight or
thereabouts. “He don’t do nothing at
our place,” replied she with devastating
candor. “He run away with the bar-
maid at the hotel last year.”
* * * *
“Fitz”: Recent Bulletin references to
Melbourne Savage Club’s “drag” remind
me that Sydney in the long ago boasted a
Four-in-hand Club. Its first meet was at
Government House in 1873, when five
splendid turnouts rolled up. Drivers
were the Governor, Sir Hercules Robin-
son, president of the club, John Lamb,
F. G. Want, R. Rouse and Mrs. E. K.
Cox. The route taken, after leaving
Government House, was down Bridge-
street, along George-street, and thence to
Botany. After a picnic luncheon the
party, at 6.50 p.m., started for Sydney,
and arrived at The Stables, in Bligh-
street, 25 minutes later.
A TIGHT PLACE.
“Mr. White, after resigning from the Federal
Jabinet, said that the dictatorial influence of certain
prominent Ministers upon Mr. Lyons and their am-
bitions towards leadership had been remarked by
others besides himself.”
“Few know the toiling statesman’s fear or care,
Th’ insidious rival and the gaping heir,”
’Twas thus illustrious Johnson phrased it, Joe,
A matter of two hundred years ago,
A memorable sentiment because
It’s just as true to-day as ever it was,
As many a “toiling statesman” could attest,
I’ll guarantee—and you among the rest.
Consider Asquith and how he was pitched
Out by the colleague who, in turn, was ditched
By those he led—and got thereby his dues —
And, nearer home, consider Billy Hughes.
No front attack availed their course to check,
Each got his punch a tergo in the neck,
Where Caesar felt the envious Casca’s blow—
-1 wonder who will be your Brutus, Joe?
Hard it must be to sleep o’ nights in pace
With chaps around like M s and like C y,
Each so unfortunately near the throne
You toiled to make and aimed to keep your
own.
Even the sprightly and loquacious P e
Who shares with you the centre of the stage
May feel assured conviction in his heart
He’s better fitted for the leading part.
Withal your gilded job you still may hold
If you continue doing as you’re told,
Never presuming to make up your mind
Save in compliance with a shove behind,
Not an impressive form of leadership,
And one would give a sturdier soul the pip—
Yet it’s the only sort we ever had
Or may expect to get from you, old lad!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Mac Hoots”: In a review of Femi-
nine Figleaves on the Red Page recently
was quoted the slanderous assertion that
women leave the radio burbling all day
because they like to have a man’s voice
pursuing them around the house. That
may or may not be true, but I am sure
that some of Sydney’s radio “news”
sessions are addressed to women, and that
the dramatisation of events and the thun-
derous denunciation have the same
simple appeal to the emotions as have
the talents of a Gable. Certainly the
only person I have heard really enthuse
over one of the sessions was a woman,
and it wasn’t logic or erudition she ad-
mired but “the way he ticks them off.”
That may be all very well when it’s a
matter of schoolroom fires, but surely
comment on foreign affairs should be
calm and reasoned. Star Gable in an
anti-Nazi drama and you’d get exactly
the quality of these radio histrionics.
* * * *
“S.”: One more example of the sweet
press jargoning, from a Sydney “Sun”
leader: “Every well-employed unit, liv-
ing in reasonable comfort and reasonably
content in his job, is an asset to the
nation to which he belongs.” No doubt
we hapless wage-slaves are merely “units”
in the vast scheme of things; but the
word, like “ult.” and “prox.,” is the worst
of jargon. The day they call me “No.
317,” as they do in some of the big Eng-
lish stores, I shall retire to the Domain
and bitterly grow a beard.
* * * *
“Zero”: Mention of setting watches
by Brisbane’s town clock reminds me that
in* the dear dead days when beer was
3d. a pint and the pubs closed for 10
minutes at 6.30 a.m. to allow the drunks
to be hauled out to the backyard and
hosed, the Brisbane citizens took their
time from the “one o’clock gun” which
was fired on Observatory Hill above
the town each day. One fatal day
the gunner got full of hops and fired his
piece without removing the rammer —it
is an old muzzle-loading carronade that
probably served under Nelson. Revolv-
ing rapidly the thing passed over the
town, and for a few moments there was
panic. The noise of the passing was
taken by many for that of the Angel
of the Judgment, and only the fact that
no document of the kind could be found
in all Brisbane gave time for reflection
and the decision to put off the signing
of the pledge until next time.
* * * *
“Murray Flat”: Chronologically and
otherwise, there have been queer coinci-
dences in the lives of the Tom Playfords.
The founder of the family, as South Aus-
tralia knows it, fought for King George
at Waterloo, and a hundred years after-
wards his great-grandson, who has
become Premier of S.A., was on his way
to Europe to fight for another King
George —he served in France and
Flanders. The first Playford was a
Methodist minister in Adelaide for 30
years ; the second Playford was a market
gardener at Norton’s Summit; so is the
present Playford. And, like his grand-
father and his great-grandfather, the
present Playford neither drinks nor
smokes. In 1868 grandpa (“Honest
Tom”) became member for Onkapa-
ringa; 1878 found him Commissioner
for Crown Lands; in 1888 he was
Premier and Treasurer. In 1894 he went
to England as Agent-General and in 1898
he returned. He entered the Senate, and
became Minister of Defence under
Deakin. The Min-
istry lasted till
November 13, 1908,.
but Playford had re-
signed in 1907, hav-
ing lost his seat at
the 1906 election.
His grandson’s first
sniff of office was as
Commissioner for
Crown Lands. Now
grandson becomes
Premier and Treas-
urer, like grandpa 50
years ago.
* *
“Captain Pintle”:
A sight for old
sailors’ sore eyes was
the 100-ton schooner
Henrietta, close-
hauled into a south-
easter on her way
down to Melbourne.
A typical first-rate
Grand Banks fisher-
man, 140 ft. overall,
she spreads her
snowy kites from
two 64ft. masts, and
can log 14 knots in a good driving breeze.
Massachusetts-built, she worked the
Banks for 20 years before she became a
film star in “Captains Courageous.” She
is now owned and skippered by Captain
Sawyer, an American sea officer who
married a Melbourne girl and has trained
her as navigator of the Henrietta. Most
of the crew of seven are university men,
three of them, as well as Mrs. Sawyer’s
girl friend aboard, Australians like her-
self. And they can certainly handle
schooners. They left Gloucester (U.S.A.)
18 months ago, rounded the Horn, put in
a year in the Pacific, and, having seen
the Cup. propose to do another year in
Australian waters before leaving for the
Sawyer home port.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: The so-called visual edu-
cation instituted by Victorian State
authorities was advanced a stage the
other day when 1000 children at Windsor
(Melb.) witnessed the screening of films
dealing with the physical, industrial,
mineral and agricultural resources of
Australia. The stunt, and it is little
more, reminds me of the time when an
energetic director of education in S.A.
started lessons in (a) making paper
models, which was supposed to have
something to do with architecture, ( b )
modelling in clay, which was to turn us
into sculptors, (c) 14 other things,
“Chuck us up a match, Joe!”
“What the blazes did you hit him for? Now you'll never get him to
believe We've got him bluffed.”
ideas seeming to burst out of his restless
brain as easy as winking. The last straw
came when boys as well as girls had to
learn sewing. Nine out of ten of the
boys thought that sewing was sissy.
The result in my case was that
whenever I saw a thread and needle
afterwards they were a memory of the
canings I got because I could never make
the thread find the eye of the needle
until the lesson was three-parts over.
sk * * 4*
“C. 8.”: The worst indulgence of one
of Melbourne’s biggest financial magnates
is a seven-and-sixpenny cigar, of which
he keeps a stock in his Toorak mansion.
Recently he found his supply was mys-
teriously dwindling. After eliminating
all possible malefactors in his household,
he was left with nobody but his nine-
year-old daughter. It was incredible to
suppose that she was a secret smoker,
but one day she was observed exchang-
ing an aristocratic weed with the vege-
table John for a couple of bananas.
$ $ * *
“Papa”: I used to think old maids
were the principal repository of wisdom
concerning the upbringing of the human
young, but apparently they have their
male counterparts. A
benevolent medico,
lecturing to Sydney’s
Soroptomist Club
(possibly an associa-
tion of female op-
ticians), recently laid
it down that there
are four types of
home from which
the “problem” child
may come —(1) the
slovenly home, with
anti-social parents ;
(2) the indulgent
home, in which the
child is not given an
opportunity to de-
velop its own char-
acter ; (3) the broken
home, in which one
of the parents has to
bring up the child
alone, and (4) the
home in which the
child is bullied
and develops an in-
feriority complex. I
don’t doubt all those
sorts of homes can
produce, and have
produced, unruly
youngsters, but so
has every other sort
of home, from
bishop’s palace to
one - roomed tene-
ment. And it isn’t
only the parents who
don’t take their re-
sponsibilities seri-
ously who are thus
troubled. Every child
is more or less of a
problem; most are
amenable to com-
monsense and some
sort of an attempt
at understanding, but
to put ’em in dog-
matic categories and sling all the blame
on their parents is about the most hope-
less way there is of approaching a com-
plicated subject,
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: Monash boasted that
the Diggers had the best discipline of all
—fighting-Hne discipline; but it was a
affair from the int of view of
Parade-ground disciplinarians. Sometimes
duffers were undeservedly made officers,
and members of their platoon were apt
tQ discipline them. When our brand-new
pip-artist bungled matters, Steve, oui
sergeant, told him off. Pips reported the
matter, and the C.O. had to take notice.
“Strictly speaking, he told the rough-as-
bags but definitely-good-soldier sc, gcant,
y° u should lose one of your stupes,
Steve cordially agreed. But in the line
we dont speak strictly, do we sir? he
suggested. Steve was recorded as ad-
monished , the inefficient >1 P S
shunted to a job where he would not
S lve annoyance to real fighting men.
Topsy-turvy from the point of view of
root-and-branch disciplinarians, -the
system wor ked well.
* * * *
“Psalmist”: One of Sydney’s city
churches, St. Barnabas, George-street
West, gets off a racy quip on its street
notice-board: “The Gospel doesn’t do
much good; neither does soap if you
don’t use it.”
*,, *,
C.O. remembers:
... , v , . t . , t .
Wednesday was the twenty-fourth anniversary
o£ t h e da y w h en y on Muller, of the Emden,
Steamed into Cocos with an extra dummy
funnel sticking up on his raider. Unknown to
Von Muller Australians and Maorilanders
bound for Egypt were only 50 miles distant and
h ad b een j n constant communication with the
wireless station at Cocos. The popular account
is that the vessel was first seen by a wireless
niaa early-morning duty. Actually it was
spotted by the Chinese cook, who had wandered
down to the beach to look for shellfish.
Preparations had long since been made for
Von Muller’s possible arrival. Spare batteries
and instruments had been buried in various
parts of the island, and the only man who knew
w jj ere was English superintendent, D’Arcy
Farrant. When the landing party' approached
the electrician took his clothes off and got
under the shower, as a means of saving him-
self being asked awkward questions as to the
identity of the cables. In the meantime, the
Australian wireless operator, G. H. K. La
Nauze, of Adelaide, was pumping out the
warnin ’ g which the Sydney picked up and which
j ed to the Emden’s destruction. The English
and Australian staff went to their instruments,
but were politely ordered out, and the Germans
proceeded to smash the equipment.
At 9.30 a.m. the Emden was fleeing for its
Jjf e> and the abandoned landing party was
marooned on the atoll. The members frater-
nised with the staff, exchanging cigarettes and
binoculars, and the representatives of both
nations sat on the roof of t he quarters and
watched Australia’s first naval battle. When
the issue was no longer in doubt the landing
P art y seized Governor Ross’s schooner, which
was anchored in the lagoon, and set off for
Arabia, taking the cable company’s stores, but
leaving sufficient to save the staff from star-
vation or even discomfort. Before they were
well over the horizon the cable, men had
already partially restored communication, the
ra j d ers having wasted most of their time sawing
through cables which were only laid a few
miles out to sea for preservation purposes.
By nightfall more cables were put into com-
mission by the simple expedient of fishing up
tk e broken ends and joining them across an
anchored ship’s boat. Von Muller’s effort,
plucky as it was, had been completely futile;
and in any case there were other channels of
communication with Australia. Australian busi-
nessmen found the usual London cable lying
on their desks at the usual time that morning.
OUR HEROES.
“They have been the guests at fine English homes ,
they have eaten game and pate d<e foie pros ana
caviare as you or I might eat roast beet or
mutton.... They have wined and dined with
people the average individual could never hope .o
meet.... A tew months ago they ate from gold
plates as guests of the Lord Mayor of London.
—Sydney “Sun” on the returned cricketers.
A trip to England with the kings of cricket,
How rich it is in honors and rewards,
Atop of those for which one earns a ticket
For pasting bowlers all around the wicket
At spots like Leeds or Lord’s!
Six hundred in itself seems fairly ample
A wage for prowess with the ball or bat,
But goodlier pastures have been theirs to
trample
And tributes to their eminence to sample
More glittering than that.
Sweet are the public’s plaudits, sweet the
thunder
Of lusty cheering from the crowded stands
But sweeter far to dwell grand rooftrees under
With earls —and countesses, I shouldn't
wonder—
To grip your sunburnt hands.
How the mouth waters and the palate quivers
To think, while you or 1 assailed a piece
Of steak, or fed on fish with spuds in slivers,
These lucky chaps were lunching on the livers
Of overfatted geese!
Caviare they tackled with abandon willing,
And venison and grouse, I doubt not, too,
While hunger’s calls we lesser folk were stilling
Perforce and facial orifices filling
With tripe or Irish stew.
And, crowning fame —how surely it belittles
All other things of their achievements told.
In cracking sixes or in making skittles
Of stumps—in London once they munched their
victuals
From plates of solid gold!
Salute them, brothers! And from all censorious
And carping words ’twere fitting to forbear.
Ev’n if they’re not returning all-victorious,
They couldn’t have enjoyed a time more glorious
It’s obvious, if they were.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


10 for 9d...20 for I'6
E 1869
CRAVENA
1/ouU appuciaU tkelt
cutituMfUmp (puditu
•jL***^
?
??
?
PREVENT
MOB
POLITICAL POINTS
The Ministry, as reconstructed to the
dissatisfaction of our Glorious Press,
consisted of five Victorians, all with full
portfolios (Menzies, Casey, White,
Street and McEwen), five N.S.W. men,
two without portfolios (Page, Hughes,
Thorby, Perkins and Thompson), two
South Australians (McLeay, to lead
in the Senate, and Cameron, promoted to
P.M.G.), a Queenslander (Foil), a
Westralian (MacDonald), and a Tas-
manian. As reconstructed again to the
dissatisfaction of our Glorious Press, it
consists of six N.S.W. men (Harrison’s
in), four Victorians (White’s out), and the
others as stated. The Tasmanian re-
mains P.M.
Curtin can say a mordant thing when
he likes. At Kalgoorlie, when told that
Tommy White was out of the Ministry,
he said he had no doubt that “the eager-
ness with which Mr. White resigned was
equalled only by the alacrity with which
Mr. Lyons accepted the resignation.”
That appeared in early editions of Great
Dailies, but was cut out of late editions,
possibly at Curtin’s request.
Just before Thorby ceased to be
responsible for the A.M.F. he announced
that enlistments in 1937-38 numbered
10,005 and discharges 9913, leaving
35,137 on the strength. Street, the new
Minister, is to be responsible for rais-
ing the strength to 70,000. Thorby is
lucky to be out of it.
The Victorian League for Peace and
Democracy, so called, is showing what
it describes as “a film of the amazing ex-
ploits of the Eighth Route Army,” a Com-
munist show, in China, and the “film
organiser” protests bitterly that the
masterpiece has been cut. But “the amaz-
ing exploits of the Eighth Route Army”
couldn’t have been shown in their en-
tirety. For one thing, the photographers
could never catch up with it, the Eighth
Route Army being half across Asia by
this time.
President of the Newspapers Confer-
ence this year was young Mr. Denison,
of Sydney “Sun,” whose pa, now abroad,
was the subject of a fearful philippic in
young Mr. Packer’s paper, the Sydney
“D.T.” Said young Mr. Denison:—•
During the recent international crisis
the press of Australia rose magnificently
to the occasion... .Without exception the
metropolitan newspapers are actuated by
the highest patriotic motives, without regard
to cost.
Young Mr. D. must have pardoned
young Mr. P. for what young Mr. P.’s
paper printed about pa.
Roosevelt has won the Congressional
elections again, though his majorities in
both Houses have been reduced —very
substantially in the Representatives. His
party lost Massachusetts, Oregon, Kansas,
Ohio and Michigan, but held California,
Maryland and Illinois. It also prevailed
in New York. But Dewey, the Republi-
can, polled very well, and may be his
party’s candidate for the Presidency in
1940.
Downing-street has “abandoned all
plans for the partition of Palestine” and
is inviting Jews and Arabs to discuss the
future of the country in London —the
Grand Mufti excepted. The first parti-
tion plan provided for a corridor. Par-
titions and corridors have a luckless
history.
Alexander Borthwick, a Sale farmer
and stock and station agent, has won
North Gippsland for Dunstan’s Country
party, and the Government therefore
gains a seat. But nearly two-fifths of the
Cocky vote went to Gilchrist, of the
Liberal C.P., which shows how very
foolish the Cockies are to quarrel among
themselves.
Cullinan, the Labor candidate for
North Gippsland, led the field of five
narrowly in the first ballot, but prefer-
ences settled him. While it lasts, the
alliance with the Dunstanites will settle
Labor’s chances of gaining the Treasury
benches with a party majority. Yet
Labor has far more supporters in Vic-
toria than any other party, and, with
vigorous leadership and a fair measure
of electoral reform, it could get a
majority.
Lyons has admitted that while Senator
A. J. McLachlan was P.M.G., as well as
chairman of directors of Hume Pipe
(Aust.), Hume Pipe (Aust.) landed tenders
amounting to £17,926 from the P.M.G.’s
Department, and Hume Steel, of which
“Mr Hughes is planning a national campaign, designed not only to raise the strength
of the militia from 35,000 to 70,000, but to ‘awaken a vigorous national spirit.’”
“Fall in and follow me!”
McLachlan is also a director, tenders
amounting to £1561. The contracts ex-
tended over a long period and at no time
did a word of protest come from the
Ministerial press. If Senator A. J.
McLachlan had been a Labor man it
would have roared its head off.
Casey is asking Australian investors
to convert £68,000,000 of maturing loans
and to subscribe £4,000,000 of new
money. “S. M. Herald” on the relative
importance of the requests:—-
Though the amount asked for defence
is far smaller than the amount due for con-
version, the purpose to be served by the
new money renders the defence portion of
the issue the more important of the two.
Which shows what nonsense can be
written by an Old Girl when she has
war on the brain. At a pinch, a Govern-
ment with an annual income round
£80,000,000 could get £4,000,000 in the
required time by cutting salaries and sub-
ventions (they amount to at least
£6,000,000 p.a.), but if it were refused
conversion of the £68,000,000 it would
have to default. And then there would
be an almighty crash.
Stevens’s influence is waning, even at
UAP. conferences. At the latest of
these powwows he said:
Our party has instituted successfully a
system of multiple candidatures which give
to the public the widest choice and to the
political aspirant an unfettered chance of
election.
The reference was to the innovation of
declaring certain seats “safe,” which re-
sulted in five U.A.Ps. and four others
coming out for Wollondilly. A few
minutes after Stevens praised it, the dele-
gates turned it down by 140 to 95. After-
wards Stevens’s protege W. C. (“Young
Bill”) Wentworth was howled down for
denouncing Lyons’s handling of defence.
A copper was about the premises, and
the Liberator’s grandson and namesake
desisted only when Minister Martin
called for the copper.
Pre-selection is again U.A.P. policy in
N.S.W. It will mean that the party will
lose more seats to so-called independents,
whom it will make haste to admit as true-
blue. A reversion to the open go in
“safe” electorates has given those elec-
torates better candidates and interesting
contests. But it has weakened the power
of the machine ; and compared with the
machine the people are considered small
potatoes.
Chamberlain has lost a by-election,
Dartford having transferred its allegiance
to a lady politician—Labor, of course.
Industrial developments in the electorate
have led to a rapid increase in popula-
tion, as witness the fact that the Labor
vote increased from 35,596 to 46,514, and
the Conservative vote from 38,242 to
42,276 ; but the lady politician says she
won “because the electors are ashamed
of Mr. Chamberlain’s betrayal of Czecho-
slovakia and democracy.” What the
Dominions have to take into account is
that nearly all British electorates are pre-
dominantly feminine.
“Mad dogs like Hitler and Mussolini
are running loose,” said Semple, the
Maoriland Minister of Works, to a meet-
ing of Government railwaymen. The
Government has apologised to the Ger-
man and Italian Consuls and the Minister
has apologised to the Government.
Bevin, the British trade-union secretary
and M.P., visited Australia for the Com-
monwealth Relations Conference and
went on to Maoriland. He found gov-
ernment “more efficient there than gov-
ernment in Australia.”
It was most evident at the time of the
crisis that Australia was hindered and con-
fused as a result of having seven Parlia-
ments.
It is evident at all times, but members
of the seven Parliaments and the seven
Governments and the seven-and-seventy
departments, boards and commissions
seem to be of the opinion that the ocean
would divide and swallow Australia if it
went in for national union under one
Parliament.
Forde, M.H.R., with a horseshoe in
his glove:
Mr. Lyons was not only a member of the
Government that suspended compulsory
military training, but for seven years has
been the leader of a Government which
has refrained from reintroducing the system.
The worst of it is that it is true.
FitzSimons, the Sydney Health Min-
ister, and his Milk Board are giving
grave thought to the problem raised by
the sale of Victorian cream in Sydney in
the exercise of the sellers’ rights under the
Australian Constitution. It is expected
that Victorian cream will be declared
“foreign” in Sydney, lotteries run in other
States being “foreign.”
Micawber, whom Dickens sent to Aus-
tralia, left many descendants, and some
have found their way into superfluous
Parliaments. In Victoria it has been
found that “at least 2300 farmers are
in need of assistance” and the Govern-
ment —one of seven —is borrowing
£500,000 from the Savings Bank to re-
lieve the immediate necessities of the
worst cases. The £500,000 is to be “re-
paid at the rate of £125,000 a year”—
out of loan money!
True to its policy of never tackling
awkward public questions, if it can
get a Judge to report on them, the Sydney
Government asked Justice Browne
whether he could see “any reason for
Parliamentary action to prevent phar-
macy chain stores being established in
N.S.W. by Boots,” or to clip the wings
of concerns like Washington Souls. After
14 months Mr. Browne has reported in
the negative. Cost of the inquiry and
number of words given in evidence
are not mentioned.
From “S. M. Herald” (9/11 /’38):
“By the nature of things,” writes Pro-
fessor S. H. Roberts in the “Sydney Mail”
this week, “dictators are even more liable to
encounter a sudden end than most people.
....Is there one amongst us who has not
wondered why some Parliamentarian has
not killed Mussolini and some Communist
or Jew disposed of Hitler?”
-Same paper (12/11 /’3B), a Jew having
“disposed of” a Hitler man:
Germany to-day presents the spectacle
of a people whose anti-Semitic temper is
being deliberately inflamed because of the
assassination of a Nazi Embassy official
in Paris an isolated act of vengeance.
Orgy of violence organised destruc-
tion racial ferocity looting out-
rages. .. .excesses... .incendiarism .... law-
lessness and savagery hopes of Euro-
pean pacification grow faint indeed.
Australians remember their own Jews,
and hate to think that Jews should have
suffered even 5 p.c. of the things re-
ported to have happened to them in Ger-
many after the shooting in Paris. But
it has to be admitted that the European
Jew has some very clumsy champions.
N.S.W. expenditure for four months
of 1938-39 exceeded revenue by just on
£2,773,000, totals being £18,627,700 and
£15,854,800. It is now suggested that the
Government will be a million to the bad
at the end of June. This was one of
Stevens’s presents to Mair, now Treas-
urer, when the New Journalism’s pet
rushed in with his demand for “a Drive
for National Efficiency, an Advance on
All Fronts,” the only result of which was
an advance of £14,000 p.a. in Ministers’
and members’ salaries, with four months’
back pay.


THE SLOGAN IS “NATIONAL FITNESS.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. • • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. -. • • • • 1,000.000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
113 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
* * 'ptnlvp
f)}l%Wo3r' 3Al}o3JjO£
??
This is a fact now for hundreds of investors. Every man and
woman possessing approx. £2O and upwards can shelter their
savings profitably in FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST,
which combines the shares of 20 Companies to give you real
Collective Security. Custodian Trustee: Union Insurance
Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
'Phone 85294.
A new shipment has just arrived
featuring the latest shapes and
shades in 2s, 2\, and 2§ inch
brims. Silk Lined 63/-
Unlined 59/6
PIKE BROTHERS. LTD..
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Melbourne sassiety is eagerly awaiting
the advent of the State’s new Governor,
Sir Winston Dugan. He is its ideal of
what a British general should look like,
and besides looking like a general has a
high reputation as an authority on
strategy and tactics. Moreover, he has a
judicial side to his equipment, or he
would not have been selected to act as
president in the celebrated Baillie-Stewart
court-martial. He started his career as a
private, and served in the Boer War. In
the Great War his brigades were found
fighting alongside Australians in some
particularly hot engagements. The usual
army sportsman, he gave up polo and
football owing to his war wounds. A
good mixer, he has made himself popular
during his S.A. term of office.
Melbourne’s new Lud Mayor, A. W.
Coles, had the chain of office placed on
his shoulders last week by retiring Lud
Mayor Campbell. The chain is estimated
to be worth £BOO, the links having been,
contributed by successive incumbents
until the gaud now weighs close on 91b.,
which is a heavy burden for a city father
to carry, even one as young as Coles is.
Coles has been in the drapery business
all his life, except during the war period,
when he served on Gallipoli and in
France and got his commission in 1916.
He has been a councillor for a bare four
years, and is president of the Master
Drapers’ Association.
Captain I. L. Lloyd, commander of the
liner Duntroon, was born in Devon 59
years ago. He joined up with the Mel-
Captain I. L. LLOYD.
bourne S. S. Co. 34 years ago, and what
he doesn’t know about the Tasman Sea
and the Indian Ocean wouldn’t take long
to write. Will be 60 next year.
Australia’s new Minister of Defence,
Geoffrey Austin Street, unlike his im-
mediate predecessors, has had military
training and has seen active service.
Though he now breeds Polwarths in
Vic., he was born in Sydney and
educated at Sydney Grammar and
Sydney University. He enlisted in 1914,
was at the Gallipoli landing, and carried
on in Egypt, France and Belgium right
through the war, coming out a brigade
major with M.C. He has represented
Corangamite, Vic., in the Federal Lower
House since 1934, and has been colonel
commanding the Third Cavalry Brigade
since 1935. His resignation of his com-
mand followed immediately upon his
Ministerial appointment.
John Arthur Perkins, M.H.R. for
Eden-Monaro, who takes the portfolio of
Customs laid down by T. W. White, has
latterly been assistant Minister in that
department. He has had farming experi-
ence, and has been in the bookselling
trade, which may or may not have some
effect on the book censorship. Born at
Tumut (N.S.W.) 60 years ago, Perkins is
a pillar of Oddfellowship. He had a
term in N.S.W. Leg. Assembly before
entering the Federal Parliament.
Dr. Maloney, known to tens of thou-
sands in Victoria as “the Little Doctor,”
is to be presented next year with a
farm in recognition of his 30 years’
tenure of the Melbourne seat in
the Federal Parliament and of his work
in providing free milk for school-
children and milkers for charity. The
farm will cost £5OOO and carry a cow for
each year of the Little Doctor's life —he
will be 85 next birthday. There should
be no difficulty about raising the money
—there are few poor homes or needy
individuals who haven’t had a helping
hand from Dr. Maloney, either as a
medico or a public-spirited citizen.
Frederick Albert Coghlan, who was
Auditor-General of N. S. Wales from
1914 to 1928 and retired from the public
service in the latter year, ha's passed over
in Sydney, where he was born,
at the 79th milestone. He en-
tered the civil service in 1875,
and was Registrar of N. S.
Wales’s first Public Service
Board, and for a while chair-
man of Fire Commissioners.
He had a pension of £lOOO p.a.
and deserved every penny.
Adelaide has lost its ex-
Lord Mayor, Jonathan Cain,
at 71 ; he was at a corpora-
tion picnic two days before.
He held the mayoral chair
from 1933 to last year, cover-
ing the Duke of Gloucester’s
visit and the S.A. centenary;
had 22 years in all of council
service and earned a title by
it. A shrewd businessman, he
held about every possible
municipal post—Health, Abat-
toirs, Tramways, Fire Brigade,
National Park, Botanic
Gardens, Zoo, etc.
Vic.’s Chief Justice,
Frederick Mann, was on the
Full Court Bench recently
when his elder son, James Gil-
bert, was admitted to the Bar.
James Mann began by being
dux of Geelong Grammar in
1931, and continued a prize-
winning career at Melbourne University,
where he made his mark in cricket and
football and won the billiards chamnion-
ship. Chosen Victorian Rhodes scholar
in 1935, he went to Balliol, Oxford, and
pulled a lusty oar. He was admitted to
the English Bar early this year.
A doughty little defender of Binghi is
Englishwoman Mrs. Daisy Bates, whose
The Passing of the Aborigine is not the
first spear she has flung on his behalf.
But, unlike some of his advocates, she
has been fair enough, and her first refer-
ence to his case was her refutation in
the London “Times” of allegations of
ill-treatment of the black in W.A., written
on her arrival in the country 40 years
ago. In 1919 she settled at Ooldea,
where she watched the nomad child of
nature become a cadger for the shillin’
and the tobacco. She was invited to
Canberra to discuss abo. welfare with
the Department of the Interior in 1933,
and in the same year got the C.8.E.,
which knight George Murray, in his
preface to her book, says was never
more worthily bestowed.
Ben Chaffey, owner of Manfred and
president of the Victorian Amateur Turf
Club until his death last year, cut up
for £87,221, subject to probate. Will and
codicil provide that the estate, which in-
eludes his grazing property at
Woodlands, Oaklands Junction,
shall be held in trust for the
widow and daughter, and after
that be divided among nephews
and grandchildren. Ben’s large
stable had been pretty well dis-
persed just before his death, and
his remaining horses were valued
at only £1627.
In R. D. Wright, Melbourne
University gets a young Tas-
manian to fill the physiology chair
vacated by Prof. Osborne. Wright
was born and educated in the
Speck, and completed his medical
course at the Melbourne institu-
tion. His promise got him a re-
search fellowship in the pathology
department at Oxford under
Florey, who has added his recom-
mendation to that of Wood-
Jones, the former Professor of
Anatomy. Wood-Jones calls him
a natural research man and an
unusually gifted teacher. He
is 31.
After being handed from one
provincial centre to another, the
centenary habit in Victoria is
now being picked up by private
institutions. The Union Bank, of
Melbourne, led off last week when
Lud Mayor Campbell unveiled a tablet
to the 100th birthday of a bank which
began (as the Tamar Bank) in such a
humble way in Tasmania that a depositor
who removed his account of Spanish
dollars in a wheelbarrow nearly wrecked
the institution. The Union was set up in
Melbourne on October 15, 1838, by the
first manager, William Highett. The
names of John Pascoe Fawkner and John
Batman were inscribed in the first ledger.
The present general manager, A. W.
McNicol, is Melbourne-born, and was
educated at Essendon Grammar School.
He has been two years in his present
position, after 40 years of service. The
Melbourne manager, F. C. Bishop, is
on the eve of retirement, after 47 years
of it. The Union has paid a dividend
for every year of its century, including
one memorable one of 40 p.c., and it
was one of the three banks which did
not close their doors when Government
granted a holiday in the 1893 catastrophe.
A third brother from the notable Gray
family of Orroroo (S.A.), F. V. Gray,
has left for England as a scientist. E.W.
is a history lecturer at Oxford, J.H. is
an anatomist at University College, Lon-
don, and F.V. goes to do biochemistry
research work at Cambridge under a
grant from the Commonwealth’s Science
and Industry Endowment fund.
The wife of Edward Hawker is dead
at Clare (S.A.). She was a daughter of
William Stawell, a long-ago Chief Jus-
tice of Victoria, and her brother Richard
was a noted Melbourne surgeon in his
day. Edward Hawker, still hearty at 87,
is the head of the great pastoral family
of that name and is one of the few sur-
vivors of his generation. Charles
Hawker, the M.H.R. who perished in the
Kyeema, was a nephew.
Gympie-born A. R. Mulholland, sur-
veyor, engineer and bushman, is on his
way to Venezuela, where he will take up
a position on the engineering staff of the
Caribbean Petroleum Co. For years he
was with the F.M.S. Railways, and later
conducted water-supply investigations at
Darwin for the Department of the In-
terior. Jack Mulholland, consulting
engineer, of Brisbane, is a brother.
George Francis Davis, modelled by
Frith, is a 54-year-old Maorilander who
has his fingers in many pies. He came
to Sydney 21 years ago to plant a branch
of the Davis Gelatine Co., founded by
his father, and is now chairman of
directors of the Australian concern, also
of the Cockatoo Dock Co. He promoted
the Newnes shale-oil enterprise and is
chairman of National Oil. He’s the
G. F. DAVIS.
(Modelled by Frith.)
youngest of three brothers, all in the
gelatine business. Takes a keen personal
interest in the people who work for him.
and although he has been paying dues to
the Australian Golf Club for quite a while
he hasn’t yet found time to chase the
little white pill.
Died in Brisbane at 62, after a very
brief illness, Thomas Joseph Barry,
managing director of Barry and Roberts.
He was born in Cork, but came to Aus-
tralia as a child, when his parents
migrated to Ipswich (Q.). He com-
menced business at an early age in
partnership with Samuel Roberts, now
dead, and the concern expanded fiom
a small shop to its present substantial
prosperity. A bowler and a golfer, Tom
Barry was also a member of the Rota-
rian and Tattersall’s clubs. He was
chairman of directors of the Brisbane
business of 1.0. A., and was a very live
member of the committee in charge of
the Crippled Children’s Scheme.
T. A. LeMessurier, dead in Brisbane,
was one of the well-known Port Adel-
aide family ; he went north for health
reasons a few years back and lived to
be 82. His strong point was mathematics,
and his favorite memory the coaching of
Ross and Keith Smith.
The death occurred in London recently
of Archie Emmett Adams, one of the
most successful song composers Australia
has produced. Adams, who was born in
Sydney 48 years ago, left prior to the
war to reside in England, where he com-
posed the popular war-time song “God
Send You Back To Me.” Another of
his successes is “The Bells of St. Mary’s.”
At Dandenong (Vic.), William Fenton
Roulston, a past-president of the Vic.
and Australian P.P.As., has passed over
at 66. Roulston’s father established the
Dandenong “Journal” 65 years ago, and
the son carried on after his father
dropped out, retiring a year ago owing
to failing health. Masons, Rotarians and
Oddfellows will miss a staunch member.


State Express
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
“Absolutely Unique in Their Qualities 99
fk
/ I
33jy
ft*
$e
W
m
:• Dm
£
9
5*
w
: :
m
■y,m
ft
:
Mt
PI
tP?
i>
WmMos&
K
<sr
e
STATE EXPRESS 333 FIXE VIRGINIA CIGARETTES (Cork Tipped & Plain)
9 _6d.; 18-I'-: 27-l ; 6: Also Flat Fifties, Square Hundreds and Round Air-tight Fift_i.es,,


ABORIGINALITIES
“Ellenvale”: He was a smiling youth
with obviously marcelled locks; his pull-
over was simply lovely, and his blue
slacks were undoubtedly tailor-made.
When I met him he was driving—no,
not a sports car, but a bullock team on
a bush track in the timber country, a
few miles from Melbourne. His load of
logs was down to the axles in a boggy
crossing, and I settled myself in expec-
tation of a quarter of an hour’s quiet
amusement watching this bright-hued
fledging mishandling his team into a
proper tangle. Of course, 1 intended to
give him a helping hand later in the
piece ; after reading Such Is Life there
was little I didn’t know about bullocks
and bullockies ; and, besides, wasn’t an
uncle of mine one of the best flamin’
drivers (or so he said) who ever pushed
a half-broken team of steers over the
Divide? Strangely enough, the beautiful
youth appeared not at all concerned at
his predicament. He simply walked the
length of his team, patted the polers and
scratched his leaders behind the ears;
stood back and, in an ordinary conver-
sational tone, said: “0.K., boys—
scram! ” They immediately scrammed to
such good purpose that the load was out
of the bog before I could assist the opera-
tion with even one helping swearword.
It was a disgusting exhibition of ox-
conducting ; no bad language, no yell-
ing, not even a single whipcrack. I
wasn’t surprised to see this modern bul-
locky imbibing freely that evening in the
milk bar of the neighboring timber town.
* V *
“Valencia Creek”: Old Bill, a retired
navvy who lives down on the creek, may
be a back number in many ways, but
he is a stickler for etiquette. When he
didn’t make his usual appearance at our
Sunday dinner-table I cantered down to
see if there was anything wrong. “No,”
he assured me. “I’m all right; jist couldn’t
find some of me gear. I’ve always been
a dressy cove, y’ know, an’ a feller don’t
like to go about lookin’ anyhow on a
Sundee.” He shook his head when I
made tactful inquiries about missing
trousers. “If you must know,” he said,
“I’ve mislaid me best pair of bowyangs.”
* * * *
“Knit Tog”: One of Melbourne’s
largest wool-and-grain stores has a vast
army of cats on the staff, and every now
and then all these feline employees meet
in some secluded corner of the store.
For half an hour or so they sit in solemn
conclave, and new arrivals are inspected.
Apparently there is some sort of cat
committee that has power to deal with
matters affecting the general well-being
of the community. Sometimes offending
members are well and truly trounced by
the gathering and then permitted to
return to their duties, but expulsions are
not uncommon. It is a heartrending
sight to see the expelled animal slinking
away from the free-and-easy store life to
the trials and uncertainties of back-lane
Suburbia.
* * *
“Miro”: This keeping still when con-
fronted with wild beasts (B. 26/10/’3B)
certainly has something to commend it.
Some years ago two portly gents of
theatrical-management fame were seated
in a small room behind a M.L. theatre
discussing the latest show. The room
had one door, and was lighted by a
skylight. Suddenly one of the guests
dumped his mug of beer on the table and
stared, petrified, at the door. The other
did likewise, and the two sat, silent and
unmoving, gazing at the enormous lion
that blocked the exit. It was the famous
lion of Carter the Magician, both known
on vaudeville circuits the world over.
Switching his tail and growling at inter-
vals, Leo stood regarding the two trapped
humans for what seemed to them like
hours ; then his master’s voice sounded
in the passage, and he turned and ambled
off with a lamblike air. With Carter the
lion was docility itself; but two perspir-
ing citizens felt thankful that fright had
kept them protectively still.
* * * *
“Skull Creek”: Can any of the Coun-
cil advise a good and sufficient reason
for swinging a freshly-made billy of tea
round and round at arm’s-length? Most
bushmen observe this ceremony. Some
have no idea why they do it; others say
that the idea is to make the tea-leaves
sink to the bottom—a poor theory this,
for the leaves will sink in any case. 1
admit having observed the rite myself
for years until one memorable day when
my billy handle broke and the scalding
tea landed on the rump of my horse.
During the subsequent 15-mile walk
home I pondered deeply on the matter;
and unless some bush sage can produce
“ What's Wrong with his eyes ?”
“Nothing at all, but I really can't let the cigarette-ash get into them.”
a good argument I shall hold to my
belief that this> billy-rotating business is
just another senseless custom.
“Marlin”: “Pisces” * (B. 2/11/’3B)
being of the species should know the
habits of fish ; but his alligator-gar. is
not in it with the swordfish for speed in
cutting through the water on its tail. I
was out in a small sailing-boat with a
native crew off the coast of Santo, New
Hebrides, when one of the “boys” called
out: “Look out, master! Sor'fish he
come!” It did, at a terrific pace, half
out of the water and cutting through it
like a knife, heading for the boat.
Luckily, the big fellow miscalculated our
movement, and instead of striking amid-
ship, caught the rudder, piercing it and
leaving 6in. of his sword firmly embedded
as a memento.
* * * *
“Padslogger”: The method of polish-
ing cows’ horns given in “Service Dept.”
(B. 28/9/’3B) may be all right, but here’s
how my old-timers did it. No amount
of rubbing with emery-powder will bring
out the real hidden beauty of the horn,
the depth of color and delicacy of fibre.
Scraping is needed, the operator using a
razor-edge of glass, for no knife-edge
will stand up to horn. Broken bottle
was used, there invariably being an
adequate supply around the camp. Work-
ing from tip to butt the coarse outer
layers were scraped off, the process being
slow, since horn is tough. When
whittled right down so that the horn
began to show semi-transparent, polish-
ing with either olive or neatsfoot oil
and whiting completed what had now
become a thing of beauty. To join the
horns together a piece of sapling of the
required diameter was generally used,
the ends being burnt off, which gave the
necessary shortness and taper to drive
up firmly into the hollow butts. The
junction was then finished off with vel-
vet, plush, silk, or even gold or silver
tinsel. Some of my old-timers spent
weeks over a single pair—but then in
those days no pub, homestead or even
shire hall was considered complete with-
out one or more sets of polished horns
adorning the walls. And some of those
horns had a wonderful spread, for no
genuine artist would waste time on a set
of scrubbers.
* * * *
“Bill Boredrain”: Tell “Cornisher” (B.
19/10/’3B) that the flock pigeon is by
no means extinct. Only yesterday 1 saw
a flock of easily 1500. At this season
of the year here (open downs, n.-w. Q.)
it is quite a common sight to see three
or four flocks of that size during a morn-
ing’s ride. However, these birds are so
shy that a man would have to chase them
in a ’plane to get a shot at them.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Jimmy Su Si, gardener,
presented himself to a hospital not 100
miles from Balranald (N.S.W.) and saidf
“Neck sore. You fixum.” An examina-
tion revealed very bad tonsils. Jimmy was
told he must have ’em out immediately.
“Nex’ week,” said Jimmy ; “more better
fix business firs’. Me come FI idee.” On
Friday a denimmed Celestial duly arrived
at the hospital, was seized, his protests
ignored, anassthetised, detonsilled and put
to bed. When he came to his lamen-
tations were loud, and it gradually
dawned on the staff that this was not
Su Si but a mate who had merely come
to tell them that Su Si would be unable
to keep the appointment. “Why couldn’t
he come?” wailed a distracted matron.
“Him float too muchee sore,” the patient
managed to explain.
* * * *
“Hollowlog”: In “Tired Tim’s” list of
rations (B. 19 /10/’3B) it was undoubtedly
the onion that kept scurvy at bay on
Gallipoli. Have known many a bushie
or prospector to keep hard and fit on
a corned-beef-damper-onion-and-tea diet,
with a few murphies now and again for
a change. But cut out the raw onion
and watch the beriberi and Barcoo-rot
get to work!
* * * *
“Dominic”: There must be some
peculiar virtue in the waters that wash
the coast of N.S.W. Take the oyster,
Sydney rock or Bellinger River. En-
sconced in its solid porcelain-lined shell,
it opens easily, neatly and cleanly, the
succulent content a dish for the epicure,
ideal for the late supper or the oyster
bar. Take other oysters! Up near
Point Cloates (W.A.) we sat on the reefs,
equipped with a bottle of vinegar, a
canister of pepper, bread and a slab of
butter —and dined sumptuously. But
were those shells hard! And the grip
they had on the reef! Lumps of reef
came away along with the bivalve. And
it required a hammer and chisel to get
at the mollusc inside. Tasty and suc-
culent enough but not marketable ; Perth
won’t have them. Far to the south, be-
tween the Leeuwin and Albany, we
dined again—and again sumptuously —on
oysters the size of a man’s hand. But
here the shells were too soft. Limy,
crumbly, they broke before the mollusc
inside could be induced to relinquish
its hold. The two extremes, and no
happy mean; so Perth continues to
favor the Bellinger River. Still, there
ought to be an opening for an oyster
cannery somewhere on that 1500 miles
of coast.
* * * *
“Hanko”: It was close to dark when
Choom staggered wearily into the kitchen
and drew up a chair. “Master says to
give Oi haricot lamb an’ all,” he gasped
weakly. Mrs. Cornbag eyed him per-
plexedly. “To give you what?” she
asked. Then a great voice roared out
of the gloom: “Come orn, blarst yer,
with that hurricane lamp.”
* * >i= *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Arrived at Ben’s
camp to find a plateful of raisins covered
with ants. “Yairs,” he said, “they’re
full of weevils an’ little grubs. The
ants’ll clean ’em for me.” Later, when
he brought them in, weevils and grubs
were gone. 1 accepted without proof his
statement that the ants didn’t leave any
taste.
* * * *
“No. 1 Bench”: With due deference to
those blokes whose trees grow bodily up-
wards, carrying wire fences and other im-
pedimenta with them— just how does
growth take place? Botany informs us
that upward growth takes place only at
the extreme tip of the main trunk or up-
ward-shooting branches, a tender sappy
projection, partly bark, partly wood,
emerging from previously formed tissues.
Outward growth, of course, takes place
all over the tree. But even at that there
is remarkable difference between tree
forms. With Australian eucalypts, for in-
stance, the growth process is almost en-
tirely confined to the outer layers, to the
rings of sapwood that lie just under the
bark. Which, again, is why eucalypts
are quite often unsound in the heart, for
there lies the oldest wood. On the other
hand, with pines the main source of
growth is right in the heart; this is shown
in the bone-hard knots encountered in
deal boards, such knots being young
sprouting limbs, springing right from the
heart of the wood. With eucalypts such
sprouting finds root only in the sapwood,
as can readily be demonstrated in the
comparative ease with which young
growth can be broken off. This again
demonstrates Nature’s economy, since
the young eucalypt branch never in its
life-history is called upon to carry almost
overwhelming loads of snow.
* * * *
“Duckbill”: Flying foxes haunt my
N.Q. beach camp at night, but don’t
touch the only cultivated fruit, pawpaws,
for which the bats would usually pawn
their souls. Nothing else to eat but the
little seeds in the nuts of the casuarina-
trees or the bottle-brushes on the
banksias. The camp cat frequently
brings in a young fox, not only at night,
but in the morning long after they have
flown. Apparently the fruit-gorging bats
carry their young and leave them in cer-
tain trees while feeding.
LAKE CALLABONNA.
From Donkey Corner you look across a wide
and bull-dust plain
Where once the diprotodon had his lair, but
will never come again.
It was there he sluiced his scaly back and
dipped his horn in mud,
And once in a while for a change of food left
vegetables for blood.
The dingo howls where the dippy died ten
thousand years ago,
And the wild donks. and the camels wild now
bray and bellow their woe
Outside the fence where there’s nothing east
and nothing to the north,
And the last of a darker race than ours to his
last hunt has gone forth. »
There, where the Blanchewater horses ran,
where the T.E. horses played,
The saltbush is dead and the camels die, the
homesteads have decayed.
A mouldering horseyard stands to-day where
the fence once ran to the lake,
And to nightly thunder of ghostly hooves the
ghosts of the dippies wake.
Burke he died two hundred north of Dippy’s
ancient lair,
And Eyre turned back from a Hopeless Mount
when he was almost there;
But 1 have been in dust and heat, and will not
go again—
For the whopping lake the maps paint blue is
a salt and bull-dust plain.
S.A.
LAN MUDIE.


“Mat’s Mate”: Big Mat, tramping into
Penola (S.A.), hailed a passing motorist
who not only ignored his signal for a
lift but made a popular, though offen-
sive, gesture. Three miles further on
Mat came upon the motorist sweating
and cursing over an engine that refused
to budge. The big bloke took an interest
in the proceedings for a while, then
shouldered his swag. “Y’ know,” he said,
“it’s just as well I didn’t take the lift y’
offered me back there. I wanter get inter
Penola before dark.”
* * * *
“M. 8”: “What do y’ think of Nuffield
now?” the mob cried to Norm as he
came in after Melbourne Cup day. “I
still think he’s a beaut,” said Norm
calmly. “You fellows skite about Bour-
bon, but you want to remember it only
took one horse to beat him —it took
twenty to beat my bloke!”
* * * *
“Puffinus”: Many beautiful kinds of
Australian pigeons are seldom to be seen
nowadays, even in places where they
were common twenty years ago. The
wonga has gone ; so has the whitehead.
The bronzewing is mostly a memory.
One brave little chap seems to have
escaped or eluded the fate of his larger
cousins—the small bronze-green one with
the portentous scientific name of Chalco-
phaps chrysochlora, which really only
means bronze yellow-green golden
pigeon. When the fruits of the scrub
trees fall he and his more modestly attired
wife soon arrive to the feast, calling to
each other with a queer melancholy
bellow which comes surprisingly from
such neat, retiring little folk. They ex-
tend right up to the Moluccas, New
Hebrides and out to New Caledonia, as
well as through most of eastern Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
“Huglow”: For real sport, let those
who crave for a less one-sided way of
getting their game try stalking hares with
their bare hands. It can be done, but
it calls for endless patience and silent
creeping. The beginner must be pre-
pared to spend much time in unsuccess-
ful attempts, but practice makes for
greater efficiency. Don’t be self-con-
scious about getting down to snake-
wriggling, even when a great distance
away from the bag. Always stalk Bunny
up-wind, and, above all, watch his ears ;
when they flatten back freeze, and stay
frozen till he relaxes again. Impatience
and the almost uncontrollable desire to
finish the hunt in one wild leap loses
more game than anything else. One hare
secured in this way will give even the
most ardent sportsman more satisfaction
than a successful day with a gun.
* * * *
“Elfir”: Nearly all replies to my par.
referring to shock and bullet velocity
miss the point I tried to make. By h.-v.
I meant speeds well in excess of 3000 ft.
per second. “Copper Jacket” (B.
5/10/’3B) says I extol the Mauser .311
at 2075 ft. per second. I don’t; and it’s
now far faster than that, anyway.
“J.D.P.” takes the gold-plated bun for
foolishness with his statement that the
greater the velocity the less the shock.
He compares the 174-grain bullet of the
“Are you any good at undoing knots, pal?”
.303 with the 750-grain of the 12-bore
Paradox, but speaks of them as if they
were the same weight. To show the effect
of velocity, the .220 Swift bullet has a
speed of over 4000 ft. per second, and
on anything up to the size of a man and
perhaps larger kills like a stroke of light-
ning, yet it weighs only 45 grains. If
the 174-grain .303 bullet could be given
this same speed it would outrange and
outshock any of the (comparatively) slow
big-game rifles which depend for their
killing power and shock on their bullet
weight. The following condensed extract
from the Textbook of Small Arms seems
pertinent:
Experience of wounds in the Great War
has shown that, as an effect of increased
velocity, explosive wounds are seen up to
ranges of 600 yards.
* * * *
“0.T.W.”: “’Oo’s th’ bloke?”
answered Bung, thoughtfully pulling his
mo. “Well, I ’ardly knows; sez ’e’s
a writer bloke up ’ere fer local color.
Bit gorn I’d say.” Bung tapped his fore-
head. “I’m down under them gums by
th’ river yesterday when ’e comes up.
After a bit ’e starts pullin’ at them
streamers o’ bark ’angin’ down from th’
limbs. ‘My man,’ sez ’e. ‘You cut the
bark from trees to kill them, do you
not?’ ‘That’s right,’ sez I. ‘That, I
perceive, will not be necessary in this
instance,’ sez ’e. ‘These trees are already
committing a slow sort of suicide.’ Well,
1 arsks you!”
* * * *
“Atrax”: “Insect voices” is a stock
phrase among writers of romance, but
actually there isn’t a single real voice
among all the crickets, cicadas, bees,
death-watch beetles, blowflies, grass-
hoppers and the rest that are accused of
owning them. Voice, according to the
Oxford Dictionary, is a matter of sound-
vibrations of the larynx. To work a
larynx—which insects haven’t got —you
need lungs, which no insect possesses.
They do all their sound-expression by
friction, percussion or vibration on built-
in instruments. Cicadas whang a real
drum with a couple of legs. Death-watch
beetles get their percussion effect by
banging their hard, solid heads on wood.
Humming insects vibrate their wings with
tuning-fork results. Some gentlemen
spiders put up a genuine violin serenade
with legs and palpi which even the
clumsy human ear can hear.
* * * *
“Rain Belt”: That curious belt of
semi-tropical and tropical vegetation
which runs down the east coast of Aus-
tralia far into Victoria is a botanical
curiosity. It is found at intervals on the
South Coast of N.S.W., on the Northern
Rivers and past Brisbane, where it finds
its actual and spiritual home and merges
into the northern tropics. Other un-
accounted-for curiosities in this line are
the baobab-trees only found in n.-w.
Australia and in East Africa and the age-
less palms which flourish only on the
top of Tambourine Mountain, in Queens-
land, and far away to the westward in
the Finke Valley.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: In describing Binghi’s
preparation of his pituri chew most ob-
servers give the impression that any sort
of ashes is used. Not so, for the abo. is
just as particular about quality as is the
South Sea islander of the kind of lime
that he mixes with his betel-nut. Out
beyond Mt. Margaret (W.A.) we watched
an expert at work. Selecting a patch
"Which is right 'n' which is left in these parts , pleeceman? We'm strangers."
of hard sunbaked
loam he brushed and
blew it free from
dust and grit. Then,
selecting a shrub
with small leaves,
silvery white on the
underside (our
botanist named it as
a grevillea), he burnt
sufficient branches
to cover the pre-
pared ground with a
thick layer of fleecy
ash. In the mean-
time the dried stems
of the pituri had
been vigorously
masticated and now,
done to a turn, were
mixed with the ash,
the whole being
squeezed and
kneaded until just
right. The mass was
then divided into
small balls, sticky
and stringy in con-
sistency. Binghi then hospitably offered
us some and, by the relieved grin on his
dial when we declined, evidently reckoned
we were damm' fools for refusing such
excellent dope.
* * * *
“Western”: Ingenious as Nature is in
seed distribution, she does even better
in seed-preservation over periods of
drought. Take the grass-seed of W.A.'s
central deserts. In dead-dry years these
plains carry no grass whatever ; in years
of light rainfall a thin feathery growth
that soon withers, throwing a light fluffy
seed that blows everywhere with the
wind. But given abundant rain the
desert blossoms with an entirely different
grass. Lush green blades spring up
which at a mature two-feet-tall cover the
country for hundreds of miles like an
immense field of wild oats. Ripening,
this tall grass throws a torpedo-shaped
seed, needle-pointed at one end and with
a long tail at the other. In dropping,
this tail ensures that the point enters the
ground. Then, first sticking upright
like a miniature blade, the tail slowly
curls into a tight spiral, the action being
such that the seed is screwed deep into
the soil. There it lies, safe from the
winds that presently will dry to dust
and scatter far and wide every vestige
of the parent grass. For 10, 20 years
such seed may lie buried, ignoring any
light rainfall that would fail to bring
their grass to maturity, but responding
to a really wet season. And so power-
ful is this screw action that I have seen
sections of old weather-beaten timber,
left lying on the ground, literally brist-
ling with seed spirals where the heads
had been driven into the spongy wood.
# * * sf
“Mandurah”: The wife of a visiting
U.S.A. anthropologist has paid W.A. the
compliment of acclaiming the local cray-
fish as the best ever, both in flavor and
cheapness, and much superior to the
American lobster. Oddly, although
heavily fished for, the
Westralian cray is on
the increase, account-
able for in the decrease
of the deep-sea fishes
which use the crustacean
as an article of diet.
Snapper, jewfish and the
sea kingfish are the cray
hunters, the adult of any
of the three species being
able to readily account
for a good-sized cray,
especially a 25-301 b.
jewie, which, with a
mouth opening on the
instalment plan, could
easily swallow the big-
gest cray that ever
graced a fish-shop win-
dow. But the increase in
crustaceans hardly com-
pensates for the loss in
large edible fish. Deep-
sea anglers are chiefly to
blame. Have been out
with parties who filled
sugar-bags with tiny
squire, no bigger than a
hand, each one of which
might have grown to a
101 b. snapper. Baby king-
fish and tiny jewfish are
fished for the same, the
kindergarten school, with
infantile hunger, biting
continuously until prac-
tically the last one is
hooked. To put a check
on this before it becomes
too late the W.A.
Fisheries Department is
absolutely closing certain
known breeding-grounds
for an indefinite number
of years.
THE IRRECONCILABLE.
“Y* know,” said old Barty, “these saym s they
rammed down our throats in our youth
Are often as not just a washout; they don t
’old a skerrick o’ truth.
No doubt they were thought up by jokers in
love, a bit batty or shot.
An' they’re looked on as pillars o' wisdom,
but most of ’em’s just flamin’ rot.
“Take ‘Murder will out’ now, f’r instance;
more often than not it’s a lie.
Is ‘No news is good news’ a comfort to some-
one ’oo’s waitin’ to die
While marooned on an ice-pack, way south.
But, strike me! I get orf me bike
Whenever I think of the bonehead ’oo first said
that ‘Like attracts like.’
“Why, shiverin’ frogs! that’s boloney. The
truth o’ that sayin’ gets ditched
Ev’ry time that some mug to the altar gets
kidded along to be switched.
If you keep your mince-pies fairly open I’ll
bet you a quid to a sneeze
That you’ll find ev’ry couple that’s yoked is
diff’rent as chalk is from cheese.
“Jus’ screw at this districk, f’r instance. There’s
Micky Muldoon an’ ’is wife;
Mick’s peaceful an’ small; but ’is Biddy is
hefty an’ chock-full o’ strife.
An’ Johnson from down near the gully; ’e’s
fat, with the ways of a Turk,
An’ ’e bullies ’is skinny ole woman, ’oo ’as to
do most o’ the work.
“The Tonkins are others. She's lively an’ wants
to be out ev’ry night,
But to sit with ’is feet on the mantel an’
dream—that’s 'er Jimmy’s delight.
Ole Martha McCulloch’s a trimmer; goes by
with ’er scone in the air
Because they’ve got cash; but ’er 'usband —
’is socks with a swaggie ’e’d share.
“I could go on an’ name ’em be dozens; no
two of ’em sees eye to eye.
I reckon meself this attraction they speak of's
for opposites. Why,
My missus ain’t bad, as they make ’em, yet
some of ’er notions are queer:
There’s one in particular strikes me —she’s got
quite a derry on beer!”
H.S.W.
S. W. K.


?
made
u
r
Sometimes there is hesitation in making a will
because it is regarded as a final and irrevoca e
step. But a will may be altered or changed com-
pletely any number of times during the life of its
maker.
In all cases it is advisable to engage ' * e
of a solicitor, and, in appointing THE TRUSTEES
EXECUTORS & AGENCY COMPANY LTD. as
Executor, you avail yourself of the services of
Australia's oldest trustee company. It has more
than 60 years' practical experience in estate
administration
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves
and Undivided Profits, £959.810.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
1-5 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY
TRUSTEES CHAMBERS. 401 & 403 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
- o Blackwood
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) r
W. D. Stewart N S . w . Manager: I. W. Russell French
Manager: K. M. Hughes
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
’ HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering. Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Producers and General Finance
, —' Dividends N Towards
Pref. lte-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Goodwill, etc., £111,235 111,235
Establishment exes., etc., £14,096 •• 125,931
1937.. 63,440 7853 14 p.c. = 47,183 8400 117,471
Unexplained addition, £l2B . . • 117,843
Loss.
1938.. 67,881 4375* Nil 189,59-9
* Half-year.
This co.’s accounts, etc., and the report of
C. A. Le Maistre Walker, the public
accountant recently called in to examine
the position and suggest a remedy, dis-
close a shocking state of affairs. Busi-
ness has been passed from one co. to
another, large sums have been paid for
goodwill, a 14 p.c. div. was handed out
for the co.’s first year, and now, a couple
of years or so after commencement of
trading, the ords. are faced with loss of
at least £273,826, or half their capital.
At the beginning, which was the early
1930’5, there was formed in Sydney the
N.Z. Investment Trust, Ltd. In March,
1934, this so-called investment trust (paid
capital £34,766) was taken over by Cran-
wells (A’sia), Ltd., which had been
formed for the purpose, for £69,532;
and in the following year Cranwells
bought the remaining assets (debtors’
balances with a book value of £548,000-
odd) of the Primary Producers’ Bank (in
liq.) for £200,000. After that Cranwells
increased its capital from £174,994 to
£250,000, discharged its liabilities in con-
nection with the P.P. Bank deal, and then
committed hara-kiri by splitting itself in
twain —Hamiltons (A’sia), Ltd., was
formed to take over the share “broking”
(co. was not a member of the Sydney
Stock Exchange) part of the business, and
Producers and General Finance was
registered to take over the rest of the
business.
For this Producers and General paid
£312,500 (including £105,000-odd for
goodwill) in scrip—four ords. plus one
7 p.c. cum. pref. for every four Cran-
wells shares—and commenced trading in
June, 1936. During the next 12 months
it bought the shares, or all but a fraction
of them, in Bear and Co., retail fur-
nishers, and Colonial Finance at a com-
bined cost of £81,993, paid £20,000 for
the discounting rights of Bear and Co.,
ventured into the cash-order, hire-pur-
chase and general-finance business, and
made a public issue of 223,717 new £1
ords. at par. This new share-issue was
made in February, 1937 ; in the previous
month the board declared an interim ord.
div. of 1\ p.c. and a special bonus of
2\ p.c., together 10 p.c. For the next
half-year 4 p.c. was paid, making 14 p.c.
for the year.
In its report of August 16, 1937, the
board said, among other things:
The final div. in respect of ord. shares
is at a lower rate than the interim div.,
but this reversal of the usual order of
payment will be recognised by shareholders
as arising out of the co.’s purchase of assets
last year from a former co. in which the
majority of our shareholders were mem-
ber* The future policy of the board will
be to maintain even rates of half-yearly
divs.
Bear and Co. proved an excellent addi-
tion to our operations, providing a large
and profitable volume of hire-purchase
business, together with a full return by
way of dividends. Colonial Finance proved
an excellent channel for employment of
your capital... .The return on the capital
employed in this manner has fully justi-
fied acquisition of this co.
The cash-order field, while highly profit-
able, has not the security offered by our
other operations.
Reviewed as a whole, the several spheres
of your co.’s activities have to date been
in every way satisfactory, and your direc-
tors view with confidence the continued
expansion of . the business along sound
and profitable lines.
The profit claimed for the year to June
30, 1937, was £63,446. In February, 1938,
shareholders were told that trading for
the six months to the end of December
was satisfactory, but no interim div. was
paid to the ords., funds being applied to
meet the growing demands of the busi-
ness, and the directors expected “increas-
ing profits” at the end of the year. After
providing £70,676 for possible and prob-
able losses in respect of debtors’ balances,
including accounts of Colonial Finance,
the restult of operations to June 30 last
was a declared loss of £67,881.
In their report, dated Nov. 3, the
directors say:
Presentation of the annual accounts was
deferred until the consulting accountant,
in co-operation with the co.’s auditors,
completed his investigations, and his re-
port, confirming your directors’ views, that
the ord. capital of the co. be written down,
probably by 10s. per share, is now sub-
mitted.
Revenue from cash orders and hire-pur-
chase discounting was higher, but returns
from subsidiaries were lower. Returns
from advances ex Primary Producers’ Bank
were substantial last year, owing to the
favorable realisation of certain accounts
which had been treated as bad and doubt-
ful, and to injerest charged. This year’s
p. and 1. account has not benefited from
these sources.
The cash-order business had not reached
the profitable stage —this could not be ex-
pected under two years. It was apparent
that with the funds available to your co. it
would be necessary to concentrate on the
development of cash-order and hire-pur-
chase discounting and the retail business of
Bear and Co. To give effect to this policy,
lending in the motor-vehicle department
was suspended and the operations of
Colonial Finance restricted.
Perplexed shareholders will get a clearer
view of the co.’s position from the fol-
lowing comparison of balance-sheet
figures before and after a dose of Epsom
salts: —•
After
Recon-
Paid capital- 1937. 1938. struction.
Pref £124,999 £125,000 £125,000
Ord 437,523 , 479,730 205,910
Overdraft . . . . 08,891 57,285 57,285
Sundry creditors 1 _ J 19,071 19,071
Tax reserve .. j 9(030 9 030
Sundry advances .. 370,555 322,990 208,690
Shares and advances
subsidiaries .. .. 171,881 160,446 136,024
Equipment .. .. 13,774 13.838 10,000
Cash, etc, .. .. 647 3,428 1,581
C. A. Le Maistre Walker found the busi-
ness overcapitalised. He recommended
that advances, including old P.P. Bank
accounts, be written down by £54,300,
reducing the figure to £268,690 ; that all
the shares in Colonial Finance, in at
£21,993, be written off, and that £2429
be lopped off advances to that co., re-
ducing shares in and advances to sub-
sidiaries to £136,024 ; that the balance of
unexpired contract rights (£16,000) be
written off; that £3838 be lopped off the
book value of equipment, and that pre-
payments (£1667), preliminary exes.
(£1845), establishment account (£12,851),
goodwill (£93,735) and the p. and 1. debit
(£65,168) be wiped out of the books.
Total amount involved is £273,826, or
10s. per ord. share. As a final observa-
tion he adds: “The mere writing down
of assets does not wholly protect your
capital and ensure dividends. The con-
duct of your business in the future, and
the ability of those in charge of the
undertaking to conduct it profitably, is
of the greatest importance to the pro-
prietors.”
The future of the undertaking will de-
pend mainly upon successful handling of
its cash-order and other lending busi-
ness, upon how collection of the old
P.P. Bank debts (they are largely in the
wheat areas) pans out, and upon the
operations of Bear and Co.
For the 12 months to June 30, Bear’s
gross earnings were £95,336, of which
£6860 was claimed to be profit. That
was after reserves totalling £7173 were
used to provide for doubtful debts and
other contingencies, no charge being
made against p. and 1. figures for the
purpose. The capital (£105,167, of which
Producers and General owns £99,977),
reserves (£5163) and undistributed profits
(£6867), together with £56,294 coming to
sundry creditors, were represented by
stocks (£46,814), debtors’ balances
(£22,590), cash (£427), leasehold and
equipment (£22,600), and goodwill and
other intangibles (£81,060). Capital was
thus represented by net tangibles with a
book value of £36,137. During the year
branches were opened at Wollongong
and Katoomba, and another has been
set up at Newcastle since the close of
accounts.
The market for P. and G.’s scrip
strengthened a little after publication of
the investigation report. Last week-end
the prefs. fetched 12s. lid. and the ords.
6s. Allowing for writing-off of capital
as recommended and for intangibles in
Bear’s accounts, the net tangible cover
per pound of paid capital was £2 4s.
lid. prefs. and 15s. Id. ords.
On the board are knight Harry Budge
(chairman), A. H. Pellow (managing)
and H. W. Allen. During the year J.
Woolcott-Forbes (former managing direc-
tor) and A. J. McLachlan (not the
Senator) resigned.
Beard, Watson and Co. (Sydney)
f Dividends
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re— Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.e. 8 p.e. 7 p.c. serves, serves.
£ ii £ £ £
1927.. 47,382 2100 4200 26,703 14,379 6,807
8 p.c.
1928.. 50,756 2100 4200 30,515 13,938 20,745
6 p.c.
1929.. 34,030 2100 4200 22,901 4,829 25,574
1930.. 7,156 2100 4200 Nil 856 26,430
Loss.
1931.. 25,203 Nil Nil Nil 1,227
Deficit.
1932.. 17,757 Nil Nil Nil 16,530
Profit. 18.1 p.c.*
1933.. 7,711 5434 4200 Nil 18,453
5.4 18.9 24
p.c. p.c.* p.c.
1934.. 23,787 1627 9923 9,542 2,695 15,758
6.2 p.c. 4 p.c.
1935.. 27,944 1627 3255 15,268 7,794 7,964
5 p.c.
1936.. 31,713 1027 3255 19,084 7,747 217
6 p.c. 6 p.c. Reserves.
1937.. 39,030 1800 3255 22,901 11,074 10,857
5.4 p.c. 5 p.c.
1938.. 20,850 1627 3255 19,084 2,884 13,741
* Including arrears.
High-grade furniture, furnishing drap-
ery and china are difficult lines at the
best of times, as the co.’s irregular earn-
ings during the boom years show. For
nine years following reconstruction in
1920 (31 ords. were handed out for
every 16 previously held, and the pref.
divs. were lifted a point), the ords. aver-
aged 6.3 p.c. ; the next four years were
dry ones. Meanwhile, old high-priced
stocks, which were responsible for most
of the trouble in 1931 and 1932, were
cleared, the range of stocks was
widened, more attention was given to
overhead, display and prices, the shop
was kept open on Friday nights, and
earnings responded as conditions im-
proved, the div. reaching 6 p.c. again
in 1937. Under the N. S. Wales In-
terest Reduction Act, pref. divs. are sub-
ject to a 22\ p.c. cut, reducing them to
5.4 p.c. and 6.2 p.c. respectively, with
the right to advance with the ords.
beyond these points to their original
contract rates.
During the last term, there was
no slackening in flat-construction and
home-building activity and the furnish-
ing that goes with it, and the co. got its
fair share of business offering. Yet
there was a sharp drop of £12,180 in
declared net earnings. That was mainly
because values of certain imported
stocks were written down (amount un-
specified) to present-day market condi-
tions ; also, wage and other costs con-
tinued to rise. The £26,850 netted was
5.7 p.c. on total capital (pref. and ord.
combined) as against 8.4, 6.8 and 6 p.c.
for the three preceding terms. A point
was chipped off the ord. div., reducing
it to 5 p.c., and payment to the first
prefs. was, of course, automatically re-
duced from 6 p.c. to a minimum 5.4 p.c.,
while the seconds continued to receive
their minimum 6.2 p.c. The profit
claimed was sufficient to have paid the
prefs. their full contract rates, together
with 5 p.c. to the ords., and leave £1466
for reserves, which, at £13,741, are none
too stout a prop for capital—goodwill
(£67,660) is not treated as an asset herein.
There was little change in the finan-
cial position:
1930. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Capital .. £464,187 £464,187 £464,187 £464,187
Liabilities* .. 141,131 131,810 132,370 133,903
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 190,876 272,252 272,252 272,252
Machinery, plant,
etc. .. 47,521 36,573 32,568 31,272
Stocks .. 304,992 207,890 222,829 222,748
Book debts .. 85,462 84.446 88,215 91,339
Cash, etc. . . 6,047 8,511 7,522 6,203
* Including provision for taxation.
The book value of stocks was only £Bl
lighter than at the previous balance, but
was £82,244 less than the figure of eight
years ago. Debtors’ balances were up
£3124. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£186,387)
was £l9l.
As for the current term, trading
promises to be a bit more difficult, and
costs remain on the up-grade. Still,
provided the writing down of stock values
{Continued on page 24.)


jg
a
A
W' 'ft*
ESSENTIALS
OT A GOOD
INVESTMENT.
SAFFTY—RETUKN
AFETY because you cannot afford
to lose money and Return because
you want your money to make money—
day in, and day out.
That is why you can’t overlook Common-
wealth Bonds when it comes to a good
sound investment. The interest is regular,
the return is 3f per cent., and the security
is absolute.
As an investor, you must consider the
advantages of the new £72,000,000 Cash
These two points you naturally look for when investing
money and rightly so.
and Conversion Loan, which includes
£4,000,000 for Defence.
Should you have any bonds maturing on
15 th December next, decide to convert
them into the new issue. Conversion is
quite simple it really means renewing
your old Bonds. If you have money to
invest, then subscribe to the new Loan
which is mainly for Defence.
Your support will do two things—provide
yourself and your dependents with the best
possible investment and assist the Govern-
ments of Australia in their big task.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra, A.C.T,
Treasurer.


Your estate will be wisely administered
. . _ „ . „ T • -r? will vnnr
If you have appointed Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, Executor of your M ill, you?
Estate, on your death, will be in safe hands. It will be administered firmly and correctly, but
with sympathy and understanding, and in a personal and friendly way. The Company would
not have grown to be one of the largest Trustee Companies in the world if its service had been
mechanical or impersonal. An interview with a Senior Officer of the Company is suggested, or,
perhaps, you would prefer to write for explanatory booklet?
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS;
T H Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. Cureton, anager.
Trust and Agency Funds Under Administration Exceed £54,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
AUXILIARY KETCH YACHT HURRICA V.
Designed
Nicholsons
at Berry’s
by MR. CHARLES NICHOLSON, of Messrs. Camper and
, Gosport, Hampshire, England. Built by Wm. Ford, Junior,
Bay, North Sydney.
?
Cost £lO,OOO.
Will accept £3500 Nett.
Now lying at Williamstown.
Length overall, 58ft. 3in.
Beam, extreme, 14ft.
Draught, loaded, 7ft.
Length between perpendiculars,
48ft. Bin.
Water-line length, 41ft. 9in.
Lead on keel, 10 tons.
Lead inside, trimming ballast,
about li tons.
Engine, Gardner 3 D.C.R.,
36 H.P.
Propeller at present shipped,
2 blades, 24in. diameter, 16in.
pitch.
Another propeller, aboard, 3
blades, 24in. diameter, 16in.
pitch.
Full equipment of sails, and
3 anchors, 2 chain cables and
1 coir cable.
Two dingheys.
For Particulars, Enquire:—
CHARLES FORRESTER & CO. PTY., LTD.,
15 Queen Street, Melbourne, C.l.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Wasted heat costs you money! Have all boilers
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free copy of our latest General
Catalogue.— Advt.
- * * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
•—Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
BE COOL THIS SUMMER
IN SANDALS
??
I6 7 ii
PER PAIR.
Do away with hot, tired feet in summer
Suit your footwear to the weather,
time by wearing Sandals.
They’re sensible and comfortable; just the things to wear to give you ease
and comfort. And as they are Abbey Sandals they would give long, true wear.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
already referred to was adequate, pros-
pects of the co. being able to make a
better showing than for the last term
seem bright enough.
On the market the ords., which fetched
17s. 9d. earlier in the year, are now at
13s. 6d., at which figure the return is
7.4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The first
and second prefs. at 21s. 6d. and 21s.
return 5 p.c. and 5.9 p.c. respectively on
the basis of last year’s distributions. The
net tangible cover is £l5 16s. 7d. firsts,
£8 9s. 6d. seconds and 20s. 7d. ords.
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 13,680 9,pi.c. = 9.900 3786 41.74 S
1929.. 15,541 10 „ ~ 11,000 4541 46,289
1930.. 15,441 10 „ „ 11,000 4441 50,730
1931.. 11,675 7 „ „ 7,700 3975 54,705
1932.. 9,168 6 „ „ 6,600 2568 57,273
1933.. 8,712 6 „ „ 6,000 2112 59,385
1934.. 8,962 6 „ „ 6,600 2362 61,747
1935.. 9,109 6 „ „ 6,600 2509 64,256
1936.. 11,630 7 „ „ 7,700 3930 68,186
1937.. 12.762 10 „ „ 11,000 1762 69.948
1938.. 12,180 10. „ ~ IT.OOO 1180 71,128
Chairman F. N. Yarwood always has
something interesting to say at this co.’s
annual roll-up. At the fifty-first, last
week, he gave a number of very useful
hints to testators, illustrating the care
necessary if hardship to beneficiaries is
to be avoided, and also the need for
revision of wills already made, especially
where legacies and annuities are in-
volved. He also drew the attention of
the Federal authorities to the fact that at
present gifts under wills for military or
naval defence purposes are exempt from
duty only under State law. As the
country’s defence is a matter for the
Federal Parliament, it is obvious that
every encouragement should be given
for such gifts, and the Federal Govern-
ment would do well to follow the lead
of the State authorities in this direction.
The business of the trustee cos. grows,
and seems likely to continue to do so,
as the advantages of the corporate over
the private trustee becomes more widely
known and appreciated. During the
12 months to September 30 last, the
volume of new business put on the Per-
manent’s books exceeded the value of
estates wound up by £505,174:
Exes. p.c.
Gross of Gross
Trust Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910.. £3,029,970 £11,743 £4,930 42.0 p.c.
1920.. 6,349,668 24,948 15,689 62.9 „
1925.. 9,895,117 42,950 27,771 64.7 „
1930.. 15,975,572 61,899 45,858 74.0 „
1931.. 16,777,007 61,944 49,669 80.2 „
1932.. 17,909,175 57,881 48,114 83.1 „
1933.. 18,150,645 54,663 45,350 82.9 „
1934.. 19,048,865 54,142 44,580 82.3 „
1935.. 19,613,027 54,410 44,700 82.1 „
1936.. 20,191,487 60,662 48,431 79.8 „
1937.. 20,612,149 65,875 52,513 79.7 ~
1938.. 21,117,323 70,121 57,341 81.7 „
Gross earnings from all sources were up
£4246, but exes., including a bonus to
the staff, took all the gain and £582
besides, owing to installation of new
accounting machines, bigger taxation,
etc., and an extra £lOOO for directors’ fees.
The net amount available for share-
holders was 11 p.c. on capital, as against
11.6, 10.5, 8.2, 8.1, 7.9, 8.3, 10.6 and 14
p.c. back to 1930. The distribution was
kept at 10 p.c.—2 p.c. of it was labelled
bonus —and, unless something very un-
expected happens, seems likely to remain
there, for a while at any rate.
The £llO,OOO of paid capital, of which
£50,000 represents transfers from re-
serves, is in 200,000 £5 shares paid to
11s. each. On the market buyers offer
19s. 3d. and sellers ask 20s. for the scrip.
On a 10 p.c. div. basis the return at 20s.
is 5.5 p.c., which is a very satisfactory
yield from a sound trustee stock. The
cover is 18s. sd. in net tangibles.
The co.’s own funds, together with
£9387 coming to sundry creditors, are
invested £55,321 premises, £86,265 mort-
gages, £34,727 Government securities,
£l5 debtors and £22,290 cash.
After meeting all charges, including
royalty (£11,473), development (£24,427),
depreciation (£9877), and setting aside
£4500 for taxation, Loloma (Fiji) netted
£83,792 for the year to July 31 last, and
distributed £82,500 of it in two divs. of
Is. per share each. After difficulties in
connection with the oil-burning com-
bustion chambers at the roasters were
overcome, continuous production began
about the end of September last. From
then until July 13 last, 18,036 tons ore,
average head value 27.9dwt., was treated
for 22,074.50 z. fine gold and 5588.60 z.
silver. Average rate of extraction was
87.6 p.c., leaving 3.ldwt. in the residue.
Mining, milling and administrative costs
were 435. 3.4 d. per fine ounce, royalty,
etc., 10s. 5.8 d. and development 10s. 9.7 d.,
making average all-in cost per fine ounce
645. 4d. After the plant had been run in,
toward the end of the term, extraction had
lifted to 93.7 p.c., and the average all-in
cost for the last six months was 595. Id.
per fine ounce. From the beginning of
1939 the management hopes to maintain a
throughput of 2100 tons a month, and
savings in costs are expected to follow
erection of the new jetty, sinking of a new
shaft, and production of limestone from
the co.’s own quarries. Also, a six-cell
flotation plant is being installed to treat
the residues. Ore reserves are figured at
138,815 tons, averaging 25.6dwt—109,715
tons, averaging 27.29dwt., positive, and
29,100 tons of 19.3dwt. probable stuff.
Although values in the northern shoot at
the 224 ft. level have been disappointing,
there is a chance of more pay-ore being
developed further down. Appearances are
that the co. will have no difficulty in
maintaining Is. per share quarterly, with
possibilities of a trifle more if things go
as expected.
* * * *
Earlier this year Mt. Coolon (Q.)
directors forecast curtains for the mine
about the end of September. However,
the co. is still milling above 4000 tons
monthly, and a 6d. div. (£15,000), the
first distribution since Dec., 1936, is to
go out on Dec. 9. That will lift total
returns to shareholders £45,000 in ex-
cess of paid capital—£3oo,ooo, of which
the public put up £220,000. For
the 34 weeks to November 8, the co.
treated 37,038 tons of its own ore and
3973 tons sands, together with 4812 tons
of tributors’ ore, for a gross yield of
15,1960 z. gold, worth £132,637. Costs
aren’t mentioned, but in the preceding
term they worked out at 465. a ton for
mining and treatment, excluding £34,194
spent on development. Market for the
scrip stands at Is. 6d. At December 31
surplus liquids, taking 50,000 f.p. shares
in Morning Star (Vic.) in at present
market valuation, were equal to approx.
Is. 2d. a share. Extensive exploration post-
poned the demise of the mine three years
ago, when mill-feed was estimated at
only six months’ supply, but luck this
time so far appears to be against the co.
* !S * *
With the dams now full to overflowing,
production returns of Tableland Tin, the
Malcolm Newman show at Mt. Garnet
(Q.), should shortly commence to filter
through. Pending construction of the big
plant, the reconstructed Return Creek
dredge, capacity 1,000,000 c.y. annually,
should be able to show nice profits in its
first year with lib. ground to dig through.
The £1 shares paid to 12s. 6d., which are
tightly held, were unofficially dealt in
last week a trifle below paid-up value.
B.H.P. is at present boring in the same
district.
* * * *
With its new plant treating above
rated capacity of 9000 tons monthly,
Triton, the Cue (W.A.) producer, has put
through 66,398 tons in the first seven
months of its current term. Compared
with the last financial period, when net
earnings ran to 16s. per ton of ore
treated, recoveries have been 2s. or so
a ton better, while costs at the begin-
ning of the term had been got back from
an average 355. 6d. to 325. The co. is
at present drilling Western Gold’s Rand
leases, three-quarters of a mile north of
its own Mararoa mine, preparatory to
laying out an underground development
programme. Under arrangement for
joint development of the leases, Triton is
to put up 90 p.c. of working capital and
Western Gold 10 p.c. The latter will
take 20 p.c. of any profits until it has
received £lOO,OOO, and thereafter 10 p.c.,
the balance belonging to Triton.
* * * *
From re-treatment of Great Boulder’s
slime dumps by hydraulic sluicing on a
50-50 profit-sharing basis Golden Horse
Shoe (W.A.) will pay a sixpenny dividend
shortly. A distribution of 2d. a share
was made last January. According to
monthly figures, the 651,080 (up 127,600)
tons treated in the 12 months ended
September yielded 6s. Id. per ton Aust.,
as against 4s. sd. in 1937 ; treatment cost
was a trifle lower at 2s. 6d. a ton.
Working surplus on joint account was
£A102,885, as against £A39,808. A
year ago working surplus on joint
account was estimated at approximately
£A220,000, after providing for redemp-
tion of the initial payment (£A62,536).
Re-treatment was likely to extend over a
period of 4\ years. At Sept. 30, 1937, the
co. had £74,910 cash, £25,351 invest-
ments, debtors £17,351 and stores £3359.
There was £12,297 coming to creditors.
The board’s reply to a request for further
return of capital—ls. a share was
returned in Sept., 1932 —was that it
would give the matter consideration when
it was satisfied that capital expenditure
had come to an end, that all the slime
had been re-treated and that no further
stocks of tailings were available for pur-
chase.
* * * *
Two of Westralia’s smaller gold-
mining set, Carbine and Groundlark,
had a talk with shareholders in Adelaide
the other day. Each holds a parcel of
Blue Birds, and each has options on areas
near the Blue Bird, at Norseman. Car-
bine claims to have exposed a reef in
shallow ground, with values up to 15dwt.
a ton, and Groundlark says that it has
got hold of something showing gold
which has “not been developed to any
extent.”
* * * *
Near-neighbor of Lady Shenton at
Menzies (W.A.), First Hit put through
7508 tons of ore and sands for the year
ended October 31. Gold yield was
55380 z., worth £49,659. In the previous
term 6658 tons yielded £39,193, of which
£7772 was clear profit. Over ore and
sands combined, latest result is equivalent
to 14.7dwt. a ton, as against the 12dwt.
valuation placed on ore reserves
(12,107 tons) a year ago. Three 3d. divs.
went out during the year, making total
distributions to date £18,643.
* * * *
London-controlled Tindals (W.A.) has
started erection of its treatment plant,
which is expected to be ready “at an
early date.” Driving on ore of over sdwt.
value is proceeding at No. 4 and No. 6
levels, and a diamond drill, put out west-
north-west from the end of the north
drive at No. 4 level, has stabbed a 7ft.
lode, assaying 6|dwt. per ton. The
property has fair prospects, but owing
to the big wad of issued scrip (4,480,000
2s. shares) divs. are likely to be small.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) now estimates
ore reserves at 175,000 tons blocked,
averaging 5.23dwt. a ton, and 96,000 tons
probable, averaging s.lldwt. a ton. Six
months ago the respective figures were
186.300 tons, averaging 5.66dwt., and
101.300 tons, averaging 5.44dwt. For
some years ore estimates have shown
little alteration in tonnage, but there has
been gradual diminution in value.
* * * *
B. O. Schonegevel, chairman of Lon-
don-controlled Edjudina Consolidated, is
visiting Westralia. Response to the co.’s
recent offer of 80,000 10 p.c. cumulative
£1 prefs. was so disappointing that
cheques were returned to applicants
and the board talked of liquidation. The
chairman has seen the mine, but is silent
regarding its appearance, or prospect of
capital being obtained in any other way.


out
*o~°*
SIZE 7Zx6O
:4
B
I
ISaaf-
| ',. wc~.ua-,, ftp
„ iirsigP'
Established 1863.
Newington College
Preparatory School for Boys - Stanmore, N.S.W*
The New Preparatory School, within the grounds of Newington College, will be
brought into use in the first term of 1939, and scholars are now being enrolled.
Completely self-contained and with its own play areas, the new school
embodies the maximum of teaching facilities and domestic comforts which
modern educational practice can suggest. Early Application is Desirable.
All particulars may be had from P. R. LE COUTEUR, M.A. (Melb. et Oxon.)
Telephone: LM 5355.
SMOKE-OH!
Many better halves give their husbands
no quarter.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“New hat fashion resembles a bird on a
bough.”
Husbands fear it will be a bird with
a big bill.
•F *F *F *F
“Young army corporal dodges landlady.”
—News item.
Evidently aspired to become a lieu-
tenant.
•F *F *F *F
“He had a fine moustache of lightest red.”
—Extract from novel.
Sounds like a case of pink toothbrush.
•F •> *F *F
Talk is cheap ; but then most wives
are bargain-hunters.
•F *F *F *F
“The Government should not be allowed to
waste relief money on building tracks for
goats.”— Sydney alderman.
Why not? Many motoring roads have
been built for hogs.
•F *F *F *F
“Chairman of Canberra’s Advisory Council
objects to men wearing bathing trunks, and
adds: ‘I do not bathe myself, and I do not
go to the beaches.’ ” — “D.T.”
Still he can always get washed-up by
going to the dogs.
•F *F *F *F
“A traffic-law says that, for any vehicle
causing undue noisd, ‘a properly-constructed
silencer in good condition must be provided.’ ’"
— “Truth.”
If this is unavailable, however, a well-
delivered backhander will help quieten
the back-seat driver.
•F *F *F *F
Fate.
He was intensely superstitious. He
wore lucky charms, blessed by the special
Yogi system, and he never made a bet
without consulting the Lucky Chinaman.
Once he unconsciously walked under
a ladder, and, on realising what he had
done, nearly died of shock. Broken
mirrors and umbrellas opened indoors
were anathema to him.
In spite of all his caution, he met his
fate one day at a busy intersection, being
knocked flat by a bus as he was trying
to pick a pin off the roadway for good
luck.
T. W. N.
*F *F *F *F
“ ‘Drink,’ says a medical specialist, ‘is often
conducive to blindness.’ ”
Brings spots before the eyes, so to
speak,
Certainly not. Don’t they have to
nurse a whole constituency, run for
Parliament, jump on interjectors and
wrestle with problems? When, after
fighting for every vote, they get into Par-
liament they have to plunge into corre-
spondence, chase division bells, catch the
Speaker’s eye and move resolutions —
sometimes a Herculean task.
The politician has to dig up facts for
his speeches, mow down his opponents’
arguments and be in the swim in every
movement in his electorate. He must
“Sling us down a coupla bob quick, or I'll break yer neck."
also push local interests, join in drives
for funds, and help to swing public
opinion.
And if he fails to cut any ice with his
electors he’ll bite the dust at the next
elections.
H. M.
•F *F *F *F
“Public Servants Abroad.”— Daily heading.
And many of those at home are all at
sea, too.
*:• * + *
Apparent Error.
“His wife stated that when she objected to
his calling the co-re. his ‘queen,’ he struck
her on the head with a poker.”— Divorce item.
A bit confused, he must have been,
By tangled married life.
He called the other woman “Queen,”
And yet he crowned his wife !
Straightening the Curve.
“The modern girl eats very little; she thinks
of her figure rather than of satisfying her
appetite.”— Radio beauty talk.
When dining, the modern young charmer
is wary ;
She shuns all the pastry ; of spuds she
is chary.
For gastronomes ( tragic assuredly the
case is)
Are prone to expand in unauthorised
places.
So when comes temptation to eat and
to eat,
True to her creed she says “Grace before
meat !”
LEON.
I Was a Legionnaire.
IX.
In checking over my gear prior to go-
ing on active service I found that the
white-ants had got into my firewood ;
such had been their depredations, in fact,
that when I was strapping it on my
back it crumbled to pieces. Then I
noticed a peculiar thing. The termites
which fell out bounced as soon as they
hit the floor, and kept on bouncing.
Immediately I deduced how they came
to be there, for termites must have
moisture: my water-bottle! They had
eaten through the rubber stopper, this
accounting for their unusual resiliency.
It was too late to pinch anyone else’s
firewood, as it was almost time for the
“fall-in,” but if I were to appear on the
parade ground minus my firewood ration
I would be liable to five years’ hard
labor and harder rations in the Penal
Battalions!
Unslinging my axe from between my
shoulder blades, I set out on a swift
scrounging expedition. Suffice it to say
that I turned up on parade with my full
quota of fuel —and fuel, moreover, with
no knots, splits, shakes or scorpions in
it, as has the ordinary stuff issued by the
Q.M. I have often idly wondered since
what the Colonel said when he came
back to find his legless table resting on
the floor, the Commander-in-Chief’s
portrait in oils in the officers’ mess look-
ing rather naked without its ebony frame
and 10ft. missing from the regimental
flagstaff.
it was a proud day for us when,
headed by the famous Legion band, we
swung out of the barracks to the rollick-
ing tune of the “Dead March” in “Saul”
played in six-eight time.
Owing to the good offices of Corporal
Tszrlz I was given charge of Mustapha,
on whom I was mounted. A 20-gal. keg
of absinthe on one side of the oont was
partly balanced by a 10-gal. keg of vin
ordinaire on the other. These I used in-
stead of stirrups.
Owing to the disparity in the weights,
and to keep Mustapha on an even keel,
I was compelled to lean well out over
his starboard side. Perched right on the
apex of a camel and leaning out at an
angle of 120 degrees hour after hour
under the pitiless African sun may be
easier than marching, but I doubt if it
is as comfortable. I didn’t mind the
side roll so much, but it was the con-
tinual pitching and tossing that turned
me up, and I got horribly seasick. I
realised then why they refer to cartels as
“ships of the desert.”
Some uncanny instinct must have
warned Mustapha that the human who
was carrying on a feud with him was
on his back, for he suddenly swung his
head around and made a vicious bite at
my leg. All he did was to bark his teeth
on the iron band of the keg. In apparent
vexation at this failure to connect properly
and at the sardonic raspberry I gave
him, he started to pigroot. The brute
was asking for retaliation, and he got it.
Crawling out on to the heaviest keg, 1
sank my tombstones into his hump. His
squeal could have been heard in Figuig.
We did only 150 miles the first day,
owing to strong headwinds all the way and
four fierce siroccos which the troops had
to dig themselves out of.
Now it might be supposed by those
who have never taken part in one of
the Legion’s awful desert campaigns that
legionnaires would be allowed a slight
rest after kicking 150 miles off their heel-
plates ; but the Legion doesn’t recognise
fatigue, and iron discipline and routine
are maintained even though the men
may stagger where they stand. The
eternal astiquage must be performed even
in the illimitable desert, and woe betide
the soldat whose bandolier is not spot-
lessly pipeclayed, whose kepi is not
meticulously brushed, or whose boot-
eyelets or pull-through are not burnished
within an hour after making camp.
After this was finished we were free
to prepare our own meals with the camp-
oven and firewood which each man
carried with him.
With the object of conserving my iron
rations I looked about for some game
to shoot, but there appeared to be a
regrettable absence of animal life. How-
ever, I was able to bag an aasvogel that
was grazing among some bones in the
sand. The officer seemed slightly
annoyed at the false alarm my shooting
caused.
I cooked the bird in the whale oil
which every legionnaire is issued with to
soak his feet in after a long march. I
debated with myself whether I’d soak
my feet in it before cooking the bird or
after, finally deciding on the latter
course, as the oil would then be hot and
would penetrate better.
I cooked it, feathers, inside and all,
as I hold the theory that this keeps the
goodness in. Moreover, the quills, per-
meated with the succulent juices, make
excellent chewing.
It wasn’t until the rest of the camp
was well asleep that I deemed the bird
edible. It had taken the whole 10ft. of
flagstaff and the C.-in-C.’s portrait frame
to cook it.
Judge of my chagrin, then, when I
broke my top plate on the first and only
mouthful I took.
S. W. K.


m
Bank of New South Wales
47 Berkeley Square,
London, W.l.
i, m
ilte «<
*1 '©l i.®
Hi
===--. •
\iv;
* Hi
r
w
m
Bank of New South Wales, Darwin.
Since the days of the bullock waggon and stage coach,
the ever widening services of the Bank of New South
Wales have assisted every phase of Australia's develop-
ment.
To-day, travellers by modern air liners find full banking
facilities at the Bank's Berkeley Square branch in the
heart of London, at Darwin on arrival in Australia and
at the Bank's branches on all the air routes in Australia
and New Zealand.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED
??
IN THE y£AE i«»?
4Q8C.1938.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwr.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.TV. DIRECTORS:
F E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon. K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: .Tames Ividd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Wool (and Other) Hopes
During the five days’ selling last week
the average price realised for wool
sold at the Sydney auctions was lid. a
pound, as against 10.7 d. and 10.4 d. in
the two preceding weekly periods. Aver-
age prices may not be true indicators of
trends without knowing the quality of
the clip offered during the different
periods; but it seems definite enough
that buying support is improving. Clear-
ances at the ruling rates have been excel-
lent, competition being well sustained.
The recovery in wool, which a short
while back was below lOd. a pound, is
in keeping with the firmer trend of
metal prices the last few months. Wool
was slower to fall during the 1937 slump,
and it is following along the upward
path taken by metals and some other
commodities—but at a distance. Being
an article that is not overproduced, wool
is always likely to react favorably as
soon as absorption is stimulated by world
industrial activity. Metals move first,
and more hesitantly, because they are
subject to more intense speculative
analysis. Often they move in advance
of the demand itself. Wool futures
aren’t nearly so interesting to the specu-
lator.
Australia is looking for an improve-
ment in world trade to bring back reason-
ably remunerative prices for its staple
product. The only valid reason for
Australian industrial-share prices fol-
lowing American Stock Exchange quotes
upwards, as they did last week, is that
U.S.A. investors may have accurate fore-
knowledge of how business is going to
shape in the States during the next few
months. Usually accuracy and reliability
represent the lesser parts in
reasons prompting Wall-street
sharemarket behavior, but just
at the moment there are un-
doubtedly signs that the heavy
industries are picking up, and
that the U.S.A. automobile busi-
ness is anticipating increased
sales. That monstrosity the New
Deal cannot continue to blight
the financial outlook for ever.
The Roosevelt Administration,
never popular with manufac-
turers or traders, has lost some
support even among working-
people.
The mercurial nature of New
Deal “recovery” in 1936-3 1 is
reflected in U.S. imports from
other countries. When things
are going well at home Uncle
Sam is inclined to become
genial and expansive, even to
the point of buying Australian
wool (as happened in 1936,
when we fluked a favorable
balance of trade with the
States for once in a lifetime);
when things are going badly
imports are cut down at a rate
that has no parallel in Austra-
lian economy. During the pres-
ent export year, for instance,
the U.S.A. has maintained its
overseas sales, but, conditions
being not so good at home,
purchases of raw materials outside of the
U.S.A. have been cut to a skeleton of the
1937 figures. This sudden change in
the American economic attitude had a
great deal to do with the precipitous
slump in commodity prices that seems to
have reached bottom about three months
ago. At least, the fervent hope is that
bedrock has been reached, and that the
present revival will be sustained.
The city editor of London “Daily
Mail” on October 24 defined the Ameri-
“By the look of y' anyone would think this rock Was hard."
can situation in terms very similar to
those used here of recent weeks: —
The rise in prices in New York is a re-
flection of better business conditions.
American trade is improving, the huge
influx ol gold irom Europe is having a
mildly inflationary effect on the banking
system, and sentiment is more optimistic
than for a long time past. United States
rearmament plans will add greatly to Gov-
ernment expenditure and, in addition to
that already earmarked for public works,
should help the heavy industries.
Apart from the more active conditions
being seen on Wall-street, the prospects of
a continuous upward trend ol American
trade is a matter of great importance to
other countries. This is largely because
of its helpful effect on commodity prices.
The prices of many leading products, such
showTng 6 recovery. r ’ O.he'rfarf'ike'.ylo
follow, with the result that world purchas-
ing power will be increased.
Trade revival in America should also
lead to larger American purchases of other
countries’ goods. •
This authority, however, sounds that note
of caution heard in these pages a couple
of months back when Australian
’Changes were blindly chasing the Dow-
Jones index up and down. He questions
whether Britain will benefit to any great
extent by possible American recovery.
The “Times” points out that U.S. busi-
ness recovery is more anticipated than
actual so far, and that “what ought to
be fear, but is for many the hope, of a
rapid credit inflation has come to take a
prominent place in people’s calculations.”
So far as Australia is concerned, it can
at least be said that we, as a primary-
producing country, stand a better chance
of benefiting from a possible U.S. re-
covery, because it is raw materials that
stand to be influenced most favorably.
There are many problems ahead of the
new—or partly new—Mt. Morgan board.
In fact, it isn’t often that conundrums
in the shape they take at Morgan are
ever seen in Australian goldmining ex-
perience, possibly because large-scale
opencut mining is a rare thing, particu-
larly the saucer style of opencutting that
i *___ / mmo
}l as T^° n u Queensland Bune.
The West Lyell cut at Queenstown (Tas.)
would seem to be a trifle by compari-
son, though it has to yield much more
ore per year. At Mt. Morgan as the
° . ,
workings go down there is a tendency
for the ore faces to be, overwhelmed un-
less the overburden faces are battered
well back. Last year the ratio of over-
burden removed in comparison with ore
milled was 4.42 tons to one, as against
2.2 tons to one in the preceding
term. What are the ratios likely to
be over the next five years? Last term
nearly 45 p.c. of the overburden was
dumped, the rest being treated, with the
result that the grade of sulphide ore was
diluted to 3.lsdwt. gold, against 3.43dwt.
It should be possible for the board to
give an approximate estimate of what
the overburden ratios are going to be
for the next few years, even though the
metal content, if any, of the overburden
cannot be estimated without boring.
Though the co.’s plans describe a section
0 £ overburden as being “auriferous,”
. , ' A . . .
it doesn t necessarily mean that it is pay-
able even as a dilutant. A big low-
grade show jj ke Mt. Morgan shouldn’t
“ . ,
represent such a guessing game to share-
holders as it does at present.
* * * *
While Woolworths ord. shares are
being bought on the basis of a return of
xc , , •
L- 17s. P er cent, (the ss. shares being
at 215.), G. J. Coles ords. keep near 80s.,
to re turn £4 7s. sd. per cent. The Wool-
worth enterprise has by far the more
glamorous history ; it has been a money-
spinning wonder of the age—after an un-
nrnmkina <Unrt tnn The Poles concern
promising start too. Ine Poles concern
has grown with the assistance of cash
subscriptions from shareholders to a
larger extent than Woolworths, which
as financed expansion to a far greater
degree out ot profits. Hence part ol the
F eason f° r Woolworths lavish bonus
issues and luxurious divs. in the past;
a * die moment Coles is paying the higher
div. (17 j p.c.), Woolworths rate being
1“ P- c< Both lots of ords. are about four
times > P ar value in the market. Woo -
worths paid capital is £1,388,999, Coles s
>226,265. Though Woolworths dis-
played a lower profit than Coles last
} erm ’ an equity in the undistri-
buted earnings of a string of prosperous
subsidiaries. Thus there is some difficulty
making comparisons. Ihe Vic. off-
ast we fk announced an ord. div.
°; p.c. double the previous year s
distribution. The Maoriland pup declared
against 15 *
T n Melbourne last week-
‘ n Melbourne last week.
resolution to return the £60,000 of 8 p.c.
pref. capital.
Gordon and Gotch ords. mounted to 555. 3d.
a^ a ‘ n ' n ant * c *P atlon of a div. announcement
s ° rt y ' , , x
Holeproof ords. came down 6d., to 225. 6d. ;
then buyers offered that figure, with no sellers.
Austin Distributors shares, ex rights, kejSt
very firm at 40s. A while back, before the
new issue was announced, they were around
345. Cars are still selling well, and a new
8-h.p. Austin is finding a popular market,
king Island Scheelite, now producing con-
centrates on the island in Bass Strait, had a
market for its shares at par (45.).


Drug Houses at 225. 3d.
Offering at around 225. 3d. fol-
lowing the report of Browne, J., on
chain-store pharmacists (like an-
other notable of long ago, he could
find nothing adverse to report to
the multitude), the shares of Drug
Houses of Australia have been
stricken by market anxiety lest
Boots, of Great Britain, should buy
out W. H. Soul’s and enter the
wholesale and retail drug business
in Australia. D.H.A. is already in-
terested in chain-store pharmacies
through Hallam, Ltd., in Sydney,
and in any case it has been long
enough in the business to have laid
a pretty solid foundation. Return
offering from D.H.A. at 225. 3d.
is £5 6s. Bd. per cent.
Company Meeting.
THE UNITED INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
The Seventy-sixth Annual Meeting
of the United Insurance Company, Ltd., was
held at the Head Office of the Company, cnr.
George and Hunter Streets, Sydney, on Friday,
November 11, 1938.
In addressing the Meeting, the Chairman, Sir
Thomas Buckland, drew special attention to the
general improvement in the Company’s position,
which he illustrated by comparison with the
figures of the previous year as follows:
As against £51,050 in 1937.
To which is added balance from iast
year 7,469
Giving a total of £66,652
From which deduct Interim Dividend
paid in April 18,000
Leaving an available balance of .. £48,652
As against £40,469 in 1937, an in-
crease of £BlB3.
This balance the Directors recommend be
disposed of as follows:
To Final Dividend for the year at the
rate of 9 p.c. per annum .. .. £20,250
To General Reserve (making £265,000) 10,000
To Reserve for Equalisation of Divi-
dends (making £25,000) .. .. 2,000
To Contingent Account .. .. 2,500
To Officers’ Provident Fund .. .. 5,000
To Balance carried forward to next year 8,902
The Directors stated their pleasure in recom-
mending the Final Dividend for the year at the
rate of 9 p.c.
The business of the Company continues to
expand, and whilst losses were severe the Under-
writing Results were very satisfactory.
During the year the Total Assets increased
by £41,672.
The retiring Directors, Mr. O. E. Friend
and Mr. Orwell Phillips, were re-elected.
The retiring Auditors, Mr. F. N. Yarwood
and Sir George Mason Allard, were also re-
elected.
The Shareholders carried a hearty vote of
thanks to the Directors and Staff. — Advt.
HIM©
• • •
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service .
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in is.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
GIANT MILEAGE
■ Jjmi.iJIMMMBS
mm
xstamim
mm , '
Wsm
mi
ALWAYS ON THE HOAD. WATS FOBS VS/
THE TRUCK THAT EARNS CONSISTENTLY
Long, Economical, Trouble-
free Life. Because of the high quality
materials and methods of construction
used in Ford V-8 Trucks, units which have
been examined after running six-figure
mileages show negligible wear in moving
parts. Features like these are the rea-
son for Ford V-8 long life, dependability
and all round economy: Mirror-finished
cylinder walls; cast-steel crankshaft; pre-
cision-set valve assemblies; 41 ball and
roller bearings used throughout; torque
tube drive and radius rods.
Power to haul Your Loads.
With the V-8 engine developing 170 ft. lbs.
torque over a wide range of road speeds,
rugged transmission (including Centriforce
clutch and full-floating rear axle), option
of two-speed rear axle giving 8 forward
speeds, and sturdy frame construction.
Ford V-8 Trucks are equipped to handle
the most gruelling jobs efficiently and
dependably.
Prove Ford V-8 on Your Own
Job. Your local Ford Dealer can supply you
with a model to test on your own job. Get in touch
with him. Easy purchase terms available.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
FORD V'B.'--TRUCKS
Banking on an adverse report by
the investigating accountant (C. A. Le
Maistre Walker), there had been some
overconfident short-selling of P. and G.
(> y dne ; y) shares the last few weeks. After
4s. 3d. had been touched in the share-
market tor the ords. and 10s. for the
prets. holders ol the scrip seemed more
p eased than otherwise that a putative
value of 10s. had been put on the ord.
shares, even subject to qualifications ; and
owards last week-end brokers began to
experience great diflficulty in delivering
scrip on behalf ol oversold clients,
1 erS p .u* 31 we jy a *°°f- O n Thursday a
sale ol the ords at 4s. 7d was followed
by another at ss. 3d., with buyers still
in evidence ; Friday saw 6s. go up. The
prets. ran up to 13s. Bd., with 14s. paid
tor prompt delivery. A weakening of
6d, a share in both cases took place
on Saturday. It is to be hoped that
old shareholders who paid up to
475. 6d. lor their ords. eventually get
more than ss. or 6s. a share out of the
ghastly mess. They will be called upon
to make decisions of their own at the
election of directors.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell’s disclosed earnings for the
year to June 30 were disappointing to
the sharemarket for the second year in
succession. Electrolytic copper averaged
£44 17s. sd. sterling a ton during the
financial year, compared with £6O Bs. 3d.
in the preceding term. Net earnings were
disclosed at £150,830, compared with
£343,852. This page, in B. 12/10/’3B,
suggested that £170,000 to £200,000
might be the figure for this year. Appar-
ently costs have been swelling, and the
lower production (down about 14 p.c.)
had an effect, too. Instead of a final div.
of Is. 6d. (which would have made 10
p.c. for the year), only Is. goes out on
Dec. 19, making 7j p.c. The scrip, above
30s. lately, dropped to around 295., but
under Dow-Jones influence recovered to
30s. later.
* * * *
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd., the Fiji copra
and general-merchandising concern, has
declared an interim ord. div. of 6 p.c.
p.a. For the preceding full term 8| p.c.,
including bonus, went out. The interim
that year was the same as in the current
one. The ord. shares firmed to 28s. last
week in Sydney. Copra is still under £lO
a ton in London.
* * * *
Carlton and United Breweries, Mel-
bourne, is exhibiting a net profit of
£493,668 for the year to June 30, com-
pared with £453,997 in the preceding
term. Carlton Brewery, a listed holding
co., has a 32 p.c. equity in C.U.8., and
its share of the present profit is in the
vicinity of £158,000 —about 19.3 p.c. on
Carlton capital. Carlton also has a rents-
and-interest income equal to about 2}
p.c. on capital after charging all office
exes. Its distribution of 15 p.c. p.a.
therefore looks quite safe. A final dis-
tribution is not due until March next.
* * * *
In Sydney, Kandos Cement shares are
having a run of unprecedented popu-
larity. In post-depression periods, when
speculation in industrials was at its most
energetic, the highest prices were below
the best quotes of recent months. Just
before the war-scare Kandos 165.-paids
touched 275. 3d. There was a fall to near
245. later, but last week quotes of 275. 6d.
buyer, 275. 9d. seller, followed sales at
275. 3d. The Bs. contribs. changed hands
at 13s. On a 10 p.c. div. basis the fully-
paids return 6 p.c. at 275. 3d. The yield
is the same as that obtainable last week
from Australian Cement (Melb.) £1
shares at 335. 6d. Though both Kandos
and A.C. have equal shares in a principal
working asset, Kandos is somewhat better
situated than A.C.
* * * *
A luscious 22.2 p.c. on ord. capital,
comparec j with 19.1 p.c. in the preceding
yearj was all Melb Herald and Weekly
■jj mes was ab j e j 0 s h o w shareholders in
tbe annua j a ccounts presented last week,
bonus of 2 p.c. (making 14 p.c.) was
added t be d j v . ;in the preceding two
y ears y 2 p.c. went out. “Herald” shares,
however, haven’t been at all buoyant for
some months. Certainly there has been
a f) rm j n g from the low point of 545.
touched a few weeks back, but appa-
rently because of undigested parcels of
estate scrip floating round recovery has
generally had an uncertain side to it.
Last week 595., cum Is. 7d. div., was
accepted for the shares. The yield that
" e "« wilh the was a shade under
’
* * *
Myer ords. have been another Mel-
bourne stock suffering in the sharemarket
from a barrage of estate-selling. This
frequently happens with the passing of
heads of families largely interested in a
concern from near the date of its flota-
tion. Myer Emporium has only about
one generation of sharemarket history
behind it. Later on the scrip will become
better distributed.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Spanish Deadlock.
[A general review of Spain as it is to-day, in a state
of stalemate as its war-weary but still bitterly opposed
people face up to the dread prospect of their third year
of civil war, this condensed article from London
“Times” (24/10/’3B) was written by that newspaper's
special correspondent lately returned from Spain.]
The civil war continues fiercely to consume the
heart of Spain. The flower of her youth, the bulk of
her wealth, many of her artistic treasures perish as
weeks, months, and years of strife follow in sad suc-
cession. Twenty-seven months of fierce fighting, with
countless obscure assassinations as well, have not ex-
hausted the belligerents in Spain. The conflicting
ideologies still appear irreconcilable. The uncom-
promising Iberians who profess them are so sturdy in
their beliefs, so bitter in their hatreds, that it seems
hardly possible that a mediator could hope to shake
the one or mollify the other.
The withdrawal of foreign units from both sides
is proceeding, but even if completed it would not in
itself end the struggle unless means could also be
found to bring the parties together. The “leaky dam”
of non-intervention, in Mr. Eden’s phrase, has
prevented international complications so far, but has
contributed little towards settling the internal dispute
that set one half of Spain at the throats of the other.
On the contrary, imperfect non-intervention seems to
have embittered the quarrel.
If and when the foreign legionaries whose presence
served so long to stiffen resistance on both sides
have departed, the Spaniards remaining face to face as
at the beginning of the struggle may pause to reflect.
During the years of strife, parallel with the fighting,
political evolution has gone irresistibly forward. In
the initial upheaval of 1936 revolution assumed the
form of devastating violence on the Governmental
side. After months of chaos order was gradually
restored, and, so far as stress of circumstance allows,
reigns in the Republican camp. The urge for social
justice and popular reform is now strong throughout
the country. Thus it is that, apart from his duties
as military dictator, General Franco is constrained
to take the lead in a social revolution which, though
coming later than the Republican, bears traces of be-
coming none the less profound. A single ideal of
service to the people is at the base of government on
both sides. Cool-headed recognition of this character-
istic of the situation would bring the end of the war
appreciably nearer.
The misery of innocent victims of the strife
deserves universal commiseration at the beginning of
a third winter of privations. In the Nationalist zone,
where there is no actual want, the sight of depleted
villages where only old folk, women and children
remain watching and waiting saddens the traveller.
The prison ships are still moored in Barcelona Harbor
under constant bombardment; one hesitates to attri-
bute their presence to intention on the part of a
civilised Government; it may rather be another in-
stance among many of unconscious cruelty in the
Spanish war.
Though at present obsessed with herself, Spain is
not altogether impervious to outside influences. The
recent European upheaval echoed across the Pyrenees.
When war seemed imminent in Europe the hard-
pressed Republicans saw light dawning; they thought
that General Franco would side with Germany and
Italy, so that in self-defence France would seek their
assistance to defend her Pyrenean frontier. The pros-
pect of a general conflagration brought consternation
to the inner councils at Salamanca and Burgos, for
General Franco, though he had no wish to forfeit
German and Italian goodwill, expressed so tangibly
during the past two years, realised that he would risk
ruin to his cause in the end if he engaged in war
against the side holding mastery of the seas and of
the Pyrenean frontier.
The Munich Agreement brought relief to Burgos,
shelved many complications, and enabled General
Franco to turn his undivided attention to the task of
winning the war. While delighting Burgos, Munich
and its apparent consequences infinitely depressed
Barcelona. The narrow outlook of the Spanish union
leaders impeded understanding of the spirit behind
the Czech Government’s refusal to force the issue
of war. President Benes became Benes the traitor,
of whom few harder things have been said than
appeared in the Barcelona press when his resignation
was known.
Although both camps are becoming to some ex-
tent exhausted, there is still an abundant stock of
hatred that makes it impossible for either side to
envisage any solution by mutual agreement. For a
one-sided victory they will fight on, if left to them-
selves. There exists in Governmental Spain a large
group which is alarmed at the increasing destruction ;
it would favor peace provided it were not followed
by massacre and persecution. It would negotiate a
truce if it could, but it is up against the intransigence
of the Nationalists. The Nationalists say that which-
ever Government secures peace will need to exert
absolute authority and cannot be shackled by con-
ditions. They refuse to offer terms which they would
never seek themselves.
The numerous Monarchists in the Nationalist
ranks are quietly preparing. King Alfonso, although
he steadily refuses to abdicate his rights to the throne
until the situation becomes clearer, might withdraw
in favor of the Infante Don Juan, who served some
time in the British Navy. In this scheme it would not
be necessary for General Franco to disappear; he
might play Mussolini to Don Juan’s Victor Emmanuel.
Many Spaniards desire peace but have no means
of saying so. The police, the censorship, and the war
itself see to it that they remain dispersed. They have
no means of meeting to discuss a peace programme
or form a peace party. Unknowingly they pass each
other in the streets, for to silence one’s intimate
thoughts has become a golden rule to those who
would avoid prison. Now that there appears to be
some prospect of foreigners withdrawing, the nations
might perhaps atone for some of the harm their inter-
vention has done by contributing to secure a peace-
ful referendum in Spain.
A K.C.’s Break with Labor.
[ln resigning from the British Parliamentary Labor
party, of which he had been a member for 20 years
and for which he had twice stood as a candidate, Mr.
Hector Hughes, K.C., wrote to the secretary of the party
the letter here condensed from Manchester “Guardian.”)
“1 disagree so profoundly with the present policy
of the party that I can no longer conscientiously
remain available as a candidate, or even remain a
member.
“The chief objects of the Labor party under its
constitution are the well-being of the people at home
and the maintenance of international peace. Recently
these fundamentals have become eclipsed by concern
for the rights of various foreign nationals, for whom
it is not clear whether the party desires us to wage
war or not.
“An instance of both of these features is the
ambiguous motion proposed in Parliament by the
Labor party, expressing relief at the avoidance of war
but disapproval of the policy which ‘led to the sacri-
fice of Czechoslovakia under threat of armed force
and to the humiliation of oiir country and its exposure
to grave dangers.’ These terms are vague, not clearly
intelligible, apparently inconsistent, and, in my view,
indefensible.
“On the other hand, the unrealised ideals which
the Labor party once emphasised and so persuasively
presented seem to have crossed the floor of the House
of Commons, enhanced by an effective realism.
“Events have made clear that the Prime Minister
is the practical and courageous idealist of to-day in
both aim and method. He seems to act upon the
axiom, apparently overlooked by both of the two
Oppositions, that the first duty of the Government of
any country should be to preserve its own people and
to preserve them in peace.
“The Oppositions continue to oppose; more
dangerously, their recent speeches indicate a line of
thought involving, among others, three points which
are unsound and contrary to the best interests and
wishes of our people and of civilisation.
“First, they call the recent avoidance of war a sur-
render. Secondly, they persist in urging the tem-
porary nature of this peace and the inevitableness of
ultimate war. Thirdly, they have all, except the leader
of the London. Labor party, failed to demonstrate
convincingly, if at all, in favor of that urgent and com-
plete rearmament and mobilisation of national re-
sources which the nation has a right to expect.
“We are not concerned with what happened in
the past, except to learn from it, but we are urgently
concerned with the present and future of national well-
being and defence. In the present circumstances, it is
futile to refuse to appreciate the strength, unity of
purpose and other qualities of the dictators, and to
negotiate with them.
“The best way to avoid war is to unite in increas-
ing the defences of this country as much and as rapidly
as possible and in negotiating as many no-war agree-
ments as possible with potential enemies, whether they
be dictators or democrats.
“We should, refraining from abuse of potential
enemies, unite in creating an atmosphere of inter-
national appeasement. All this is, it seems to me,
precisely what the Government is doing alone and
independently, and it is to assist in this great work
that the Prime Minister, rejecting the disintegrating
expedient of a general election, appeals to all parties
in the State, as they now stand, to unite in forming a
completely impregnable national front.
“To me it seems to be right to obey that call. I
trust that the Oppositions will, for the moment, forget
that it is one function of an Opposition to oppose and
will remember that their higher duty is to subordinate
party politics to national safety.”
Jewish Achievement in Palestine.
[Leaving aside for the moment the grim aspects of
the general Palestine scene —the Jewish settlements sur-
rounded by barbed wire stockades, the searchlights
cutting through the night, the patrols of armed police
and British soldiers, the whole reign of terror, the
enormous difficulty still facing Britain in trying to find
a peaceful solution of a problem the Arab-Jew parties
to which seem to be separated by viewpoints as wide
apart as the Poles —this (condensed) London “Sunday
Referee” article by Rushworth Fogg has its own interest
as a record of achievement.]
Have the Jews, as their enemies assert, prospered
at the expense of the Arab peasant, taking his land
and turning him into a propertyless laborer? The
facts and figures make that claim sound ridiculous.
True, Jews have bought Arab land. In the areas
around Jaffa and Tel Aviv they have paid as much
as £3OO and £4OO an acre for land that was previously
worth £lO an acre. Arab peasants took such offers
gladly ; they mostly bought cheaper land elsewhere ;
they certainly did not become landless laborers.
One survey last year showed that 53 per cent, of
the land bought was from absentee landlords who
live in Syria, 25 per cent, from rich Arab landowners.
In 1929, only 700 Arabs could be found in all
Palestine who, having sold their holdings to Jews,
were landless.
Where, then, does the 320,000 acres of Jewish
cultivated land come from? The answer is that the
Jews made it into cultivatable land. They drained
malarial swamps, they irrigated the desert, they fer-
tilised spent land. What the Arabs could not do with
their primitive methods, their wooden ploughs drawn
by camel, mule, or ox, the Jews achieved by deep
ploughing by the use of tractors. They made the
desert blossom like the rose —but with field-crops,
orange-trees, grapefruit, vines and olives.
They produced five or six crops of grain on land
where Arab methods had produced one or two crops.
By scientific breeding and importing good strains,
they made their cattle provide ten times as much
milk, their hens lay three times as many eggs as had
the Arab stock.
Some Arabs learned from the Jews. For them,
Jewish prosperity meant Arab prosperity. Here are
significant figures. Palestine supported 55,000 Jews
and 500,000 Arabs in 1918. There are now 400,000
Jews, 900,000 Arabs. The Arab population has in-
creased most in the areas where the example of the
Jews has shown them how to make a decent living
out of the land. In the areas where there are no
Jews to set the pace, the Arab peasant scratches the
sand with his wooden plough, and pays up to two-
thirds of his produce in rent to his feudal landlord —
a fellow-Arab.
The Jews have developed Palestine’s great citrus
fruitgrowing industry. In 1918 there were 6000 acres
of orange groves. Now there are 32,500 acres. Where-
as 1,000,000 cases of oranges and grapefruit were ex-
ported in 1920, this figure increased to 11,000,000 in
1936-37.
Do not think the Jew came empty-handed,
begging favors, to Palestine. The immigration regu-
lations alone would have prevented that. It is esti-
mated that there is £95,000,000 of Jewish money in-
vested in the country —£20,000,000 in industry, most
of the rest in improving the land. One-third of the
population, the Jews actually pay 60 per cent, of the
taxes.
They have built towns, cities. The biggest city
in Palestine is Tel Aviv, a Jewish creation entirely.
It is one of the wonders of the world. It has sprung
out of the desert, created out of nothing. About
150,000 Jews live there. Then there is the New
Jerusalem outside the walls of the ancient Holy City,
inhabited by 70,000 Jews. Haifa has doubled in popu-
lation, increased its prosperity many times, thanks
to Jewish trade and industry.
The Jews have established hundreds of factories
and works. Textiles, clothing, chemicals, soap, wines
—these are only a few of the products. Because Jews
throughout the world poured their money into
Palestine, the country was shielded from the financial
and economic crises which have afflicted the rest
of the world. The Arabs have had their share of
this benefit.
The Arab worker may complain that the Jews
prefer to employ their own people. But the Arab has
not suffered. His wages and standard of living are
two or three times as high as they were in 1918.
Jewish money has gone into the great electricity and
irrigation schemes in the Valley of the Jordan and of
the Yarmuk, the great potash works which are exploit-
ing the chemical waters of the Red Sea. Without the
Jews, Palestine would still be poor, backward, un-
healthy, and of no importance in the world.
Churchill’s Doctrine of Despair.
[Naming Mr. Churchill, among others, Herr Hitler,
speaking at Munich last week, said: “I warn Germany
that I see a war campaign being started against her.”
That he is not alone In seeing the workings of a war
party in Britain is demonstrated by this (condensed)
London “Sunday Times” article by Lord Elton, who
argues for the Chamberlain policy against the “policy of
destruction and despair” advocated by Mr. Churchill and
others.]
Any comprehensive policy of reconciliation must
assume, firstly, that there need be no inextinguishable
quarrel between Germany and ourselves for the mere
reason that we are a democracy and Germany is not;
and, secondly, that the universe contains room enough
for both a powerful Germany and a powerful Britain.
Mr. Churchill’s recent broadcast to America was
an assertion of a doctrine of destruction and despair.
Mr. Churchill thundered out the familiar catalogue of
the vices of the Nazi regime, warned the world-wide
legions of democracy to be ready for the inevitable
death-grapple with their implacable foe.
Is it really true that, sooner or later, we must
inevitably fight Germany—because Germany is gov-
erned by Nazis? Is it really true that it is immoral
to come to terms with the Germany of Hitler ; or,


<2i
Dunlop saves motorists
3's in every tyre £/--
so# a i
a money saver
at every turn
©UNIOP PERDRIAU
iftUBBER CO. LTO.
‘I INCORPORATED
IN VICTORIA*.
Casing is built with
WEFTLESS
CORD
The Dunlop 9-T-l gives in-
side safety as well with
Weftless Cord casing. This
cord (exclusive to Dunlop) .
gives longer casing life and
cooler running. ms-32
SAVINGS IN PRICE
Based on the popular sized tyre —the 6.00 x 16—Dunlop 9-T-l saves
3/6 in every tyre £. Saving on other sizes approximately the same.
EXTRA MILES
Dunlop 9-T-l is the greatest mileage value ever offered. You
can be assured of thousands of miles of extra wear from these
sturdy well-built tyres.
NON-SKID Safety
The tread pattern of Dunlop 9-T-l, modelled on the same
lines as Dunlop Silent “90”, gives the same protection both
from forward and side skids.
SILENCE without loss of safety <
Modern cars being quieter in operation, Dunlop 9-T-l incorporates a
Silent Tread pattern which eliminates irritating noise so noticeable
with ordinary tyres.
i THROUGHOUT THE RRiTiOH EM Pi RE MOST PEOPLE RiOE OH DUNLOP TYRES j
for that matter, with the Italy of Mussolini? There
are those who think so Was it not from the front
Opposition Bench, not so long ago, when the Prime
Minister was expressing the hope that we might soon
be on better terms with Italy, that Mr. Alexander
irrepressibly ejaculated “Never!" Did not the Bishop
of Durham eloquently assure the House of Lords last
summer that sooner or later there must be a Holy
War against Despotism? And was not the Liberal-
Labor alliance in the Oxford by-election, in fact if
not in theory, the first tentative emergence of a war-
party? I, is. indeed, a doemne of des.mc.ion and of
p ir ‘
After the last war there were those who were only
too anxious to attack Russia—because Russia was
governed by Bolshevists. In that madness also Mr.
Churchill was a protagonist. Wrangel, Denikin, Arch-
angel—shadowy and melancholy memories, what did
they all avail? To rivet the fetters of Bolshevism on
Russia; that is all. When will our bellicose idealists
learn that military despotisms thrive on threats? It
is only in times of assured peace that liberty becomes
contagious.
T ,.,. , , _ .
e primary object of the Prime Ministers
toreign policy is not to extend democratic principles,
but to preserve the safety, honor and welfare of these
omimons. But if the extension of democracy were
his prime object, his, and not Mr. Churchill’s, would
be the only hopeful method of achieving it. Do the
believers in this ideological death-grapple really sup-
pose that after a year of air-warfare on the grand
scale democracy would survive—anywhere?
The Prime Minister's opponents would, further.
reject the view that a powerful Germany and a power-
ful Britain nan m nvief • thie ic
promising imperialist^
{*, , ® ! St uncompromising
believe U the Naif naw
e e, the Nazi regime must pass lrom aggression to
aggression, until, inevitably, sooner or later, it chal-
lemres thf* vppv Af Rritioix p ’v,, a c
lenges the very existence of the British Empire. As
to which, it may be admitted that no one can say for
certain whether the tale of violence and threat has yet
been fulfilled-although, to be honest, we must re-
remember that, from the peace of Versailles to the
Franco-Soviet-Czechoslovak alliances, we and our
allies have done a good deal to provoke force by
f orce
f i .
The doctrine that a powerful Germany and a
powerful Britain cannot co-exist is but another way
01. saying that there must needs be a world war in
every generation. And that, too, is a doctrine of
despair. There will be awkward corners to round
before we can come to a permanent accommodation
with Germany, but there is surely no eternal law of
nature to prevent their being rounded.
Aliens in England.
(Condensed from an article in London “Sunday Express.’’)
There are more aliens living and working in
Britain to-day than ever before, and every day more
are landing to swell the army. There has been a big
influx of Austrian refugees; now England is seeing
the first wave of what may possibly be a much larger
influx from Czechoslovakia.
How to absorb them, what to do about them is
becoming one of Britain’s greatest problems. It is
not possible to slam the door against them for humani-
tarian reasons, but at the same time there is no dis-
guising the anxiety felt among British people against
whom they are now competing for a living. In six
months this year the total number naturalised has
almost reached the total for the whole of 1937.
How the stream of foreign workers is growing
may be realised from these figures for permits granted
during the past five years:
1933 8,584 1935 1 1,344
1934 10,286 1936 11,390
19.37 21, .31!)
Where do British people suffer most from the
competition of these alien arrivals? When one starts
to investigate this matter the most extraordinary facts
are turned up. For example, it seems incredible, but
it is a fact, that aliens who can hardly speak English
are now driving London taxi-cabs and forcing British
drivers off the streets.
The textile industry attracts many aliens. Aus-
trians, Germans and Poles have established a firm
footing in it. The fur trade is largely controlled by
foreigners, mostly Russians and Poles. Aliens figure
prominently also in the gown and millinery trades.
Thousands of hats and dresses are made in the East
End, whole families working at them. They work
under very different conditions from British workers
and they undercut British workers. Cut-price gown
shops are also being opened right and left by aliens.
Often they start by employing British sales girls, who
are later displaced by newly-arrived foreigners, often
disguised— to get over regulations—as relatives.
Influential aliens do not hesitate to put pressure
on British firms to employ foreigners for whom jobs
are necessary. Here is one case. A firm was
approached by influential friends of refugees with a
request to give them employment. The firm replied
that there were no vacancies. The immediate answer
was that unless jobs were found certain lucrative con-
tracts which these influential friends had placed with
the firm would be cancelled. Two employees were
dismissed and the refugees got their jobs.
Here is another example of foreign methods: An
Englishman, competing on an equal basis against a
number of aliens, was refused a supply of goods by
the warehouse with which he usually dealt. When he
asked the reason he was told that his competitors
threatened to withdraw their substantial support from
the warehouse if he were allowed to buy.
Hairdressers, too, are becoming anxious. Mr.
G. H. Murphy, the registrar of the Hairdressers’ Regis-
tration Council, said: “Foreigners are coming over and
ousting British employees. We had one case in
London last week of two aliens who cannot speak
English being given employment in a foreign-owned
shop in place of two Englishmen.”
Doctors —strongly as they are organised—are
alarmed by the influx of doctors from Austria, Ger-
many and Czechoslovakia. This is what Dr. A. Welply,
secretary of the Medical Practitioners’ Union, says:
“I have investigated personally cases of threatening
letters sent to doctors on hospital staffs who have
opposed the admission of foreigners as colleagues.
There have been cases of the dismissal of a British
doctor without adequate explanation to make room
for an alien of no better qualifications. There are
hospitals now almost entirely staffed by alien doctors.”
Dentists are suffering equally. Of 200 refugee
dentists registered in Britain in the past few years 85 —
all Germans—have been given permission to practise
here, and the remainder, armed with British creden-
tials, have found work in the British Dominions and
colonies. British dentists complain—as do doctors —
that many foreign dentists do not observe the high
ethical standard expected here.
Domestic servants, of course, form a huge pro-
portion of the alien army in Britain. They are
not supposed to work in hospitals and similar public
institutions, but numbers manage to drift into these
jobs, which carry better pay. Many alien women take
posts as domestic servants merely as a means of enter-
ing the country. Often they are unsuitable for the
work and have never been in service before, but, once
here, friends and powerful organisations soon find
them better posts.
Shipping, of course, employs many aliens. It is
estimated that at the moment, when British sailors
find it difficult to secure berths, there are at least 7000
aliens in British ships. Some of the ships trading with
Spain under the British flag have not a single Briton
on board except the wireless operator.
The aliens who are flocking into London are
colonising definite districts rather than spreading hap-
hazard over the town. In some of the streets in dis-
tricts in the north of London English is the least often
heard of all European languages.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Manolive’s victory in the Williams-
town Cup was as clear-cut as those of
Buzalong in the Caulfield Cup and Cata-
logue in the Melbourne Cup. Queens-
land jockey Fred Shean rode all three.
He made turf history by so doing,
though Ashley Reed’s performance in
landing the Toorak Handicap, Caulfield
Cup and Melbourne Cup of 1937 on the
same horse will be more difficult to
eclipse.
Shean likes to have a race won far
from home. His methods aren’t those
of the “going-for-the-doctor” type, yet
they contrast widely with the last-run
tactics of Frank Dempsey, for instance.
Shean falls short of real greatness when
it comes to a tight finish. Breasley out-
rode him when Cyclist downed Tarpati
in the V.R.C. Ottawa Stakes.
Course backers got sixes about Man-
olive early in the afternoon, when Young
Idea was a 4-to-l favorite; but a flood
of support brought the prad from W.A.
down to half his original price. He
started at 7 to 2, Young Idea drifting
to 11 to 2. The only others at less than
double figures were L’Aiglon, El Seno-
rita and Ortelle’s Star.
Leading past the stand Manolive made
his own running for the remainder of
the journey. El Senorita’s attempt to
wrest control from him near the six-fur-
longs pole was abortive. Andy Knox
kept persevering, but the little mare
knocked up.
Shean asked Manolive for maximum
speed at the half-mile. The result was
astounding ; his mount opened up and
more than maintained a five lengths’
gap. This was the official winning
margin, but the judge had made a con-
servative estimate. Young Idea struggled
into second place, two lengths in advance
of Queen of Song, who finished sur-
prisingly well.
Covering the 1| miles in 2min. 28!sec.
Manolive took 2|sec. off the course
record established by Yarramba six years
ago. The Australasian record is 2min.
27|sec., put up by Palfresco in the Caul-
field Cup of 1935. On two successive
Saturdays time figures were made by
Manolive: on the final day at Fleming-
ton he had lowered Phar Lap’s Aus-
tralasian record for 1| miles.
Harry Telford engaged J. O’Sullivan to
ride Tarpati in the Rawdon Stakes.
Substitution of this jockey for Shean did
not have the desired result. Meteorical
(fourth) had been unable to pace it with
Tarpati (second, beaten a neck) in the
V.R.C. Ottawa Stakes. Meeting that
rival on the same terms and over a
similar distance on Saturday, she beat
Tarpati pointless by a length.
Tarpati was at 9 to 4 and Meteorical
at tens. Winner is by Gay Lothario, and
belongs to her breeders, Guy Raymond,
of the V.R.C. committee, and H. B.
Ranken.
The success of Meteorical followed that
of another outsider, Bas Rhin, in the
Cup Hurdle. Bas Rhin (20 to 1) squeezed
home by a head from a 7-to-2 favorite,
Kerry Bay, whose jockey lodged a pro-
test for interference that was promptly
dismissed. Bas Rhin is by Lorrain, a
stallion that Frank Bullock trained in
France and sent to the care of his
relative F. H. (“Son”) Lewis in Mel-
bourne. Lorrain had bad feet, and did
not stand up to a preparation.
Phildean, trained by A. C. Ling, who
was foreman to P. T. Heywood in the
days of Artilleryman and long before,
put in a fine finishing effort in the Altona
Trial. He went out at sixes, and was
followed home by Only One (sevens) and
the favorite, Quicksilver, a 5-to-l shot.
With Dempsey up, Atticus started at
evens for the Seddon Handicap. He
shaped wretchedly. The race went to
Sir Harold (Burnewang-Mirambeek),
backed from 20 to 1 down to twelves.
Bill Burke, his trainer, sent Sir Harold
across for the A.J.C. Derby, but the
Derby distance was too far for the colt;
journey on Saturday was a mile and 55
yards. Sir Harold looked as if he could
have gone much farther. He may be
acquiring stamina, and was untroubled
by lOst.
Fearnought is owned in W.A. and
trained by H. J. Morrison, who was first
jockey to W. R. Wilson in the palmy days
of the St. Albans team over which C. L.
Macdonald presided, and H.J.M. had a
belated winning turn with the Beau Fils-
Redgrass gelding in the Ozone High-
weight. Late rush for Fearnought reduced
his quota from sevens to fives. Just when
W. R. Kemball’s Beau Pere gelding
Hilton had mastered the heavily-backed
Pine Peak, he was challenged by Fear-
nought, on whom J. O’Sullivan scored
by half a neck. Pine Peak was third.
This Page’s tips for the last four
Williamstown Cups are interesting: 1935,
Garrio (first, sto 1 s.p.); 1936, Bustard
(second); 1937, John Wilkes (first, 7to
2); 1938, Manolive (first, 7to 2).
“And how Was the Flight from Egypt accomplished?”
“In one hop!”
The Victorian racing calendar is being
relieved of a long series of spring Cups.
Those at Woodend and Williamstown
were disposed of last week. To-day the
Bendigo Cup is set down for decision ;
then comes the Ballarat Cup.
Naturally the provincial Cups are far
less valuable than those in the metropoli-
tan area. Winner’s share at Woodend
was £155 and a £2O trophy. It went to
O’Brien, the paddock bookmaker, who
has been very lucky in ownership of
racehorses. O’Brien bought Alan-a-Dale
at the dispersal of Alan Cooper’s prads,
and was reimbursed by that colt’s suc-
cess on Caulfield Cup day.
Keeping Watch, like Alan-a-Dale, is
trained by Steve Murphy, who had
charge of Gay Lover when that horse
was first past the post in the Epsom of
1936, but lost .to Capris on a protest.
Murphy began his turf career as a pony
jockey, and piloted Ambrosia to victory
in an Ascot (Vic.) Thousand for horses
of all heights.
There is one point in common between
the records of Keeping Watch and The
Trump, hero of the 1937 spring meetings
in Melbourne. Each was victorious at ex-
tremely long odds over a sprint distance
at Moonee Valley. Events proved that
both possessed speed as well as stamina.
Keeping Watch followed up his Valley
surprise by taking the V.R.C. Royal
Handicap in June, setting lmin. 12isec.
for six furlongs, and beating Spinifex
when in receipt of only 31b., Spinifex sub-
sequently acquitted himself creditably in
the Doomben (Q.) Newmarket and Cup.
Even though ridden by an apprentice
who was making his debut, Keeping
Watch was backed down to 7 to 4 at
Woodend. He led throughout to score
comfortably from The Pioneer (7 to 2)
and Bustard (tens). Bustard is the horse
that, when owned by J. S. Feehan, was
twice placed in the Williamstown Cup
and beat Sylvandale at weight-for-age on
that course.
Galvano, trained by Fullarton and
ridden by that wizard over obstacles, gave
Woodend punters a good beginning by
capturing the Cup Hurdle, for which he
started in prime demand at twos. Odds
of 15 to 1 went begging when Galvano
landed the Hurdle Race at Kyneton on
October 26, Fullarton then being on Dol-
phin, who ran unplaced. Apparently it
was a case of “harboring an angel un-
awares.”
Only really favorable result for ring-
men at Woodend was when Miss Park-
wood (20 to 1) won the J. C. Keating
Handicap, narrowly defeating the favor-
ite, Raeburn, with Threelake a good third.
Raeburn, a M.L.-bred colt, has cost his
connections a lot of money in the past
few months. He hung in more than once
after turning for home.
Larry Resta credited W. T. Hazlett
with the Craigie Maiden Plate. The team
of Hazlett had been out of luck since Sir
Simper won the Woodend Cup of 1937.
Three years before that Sir Simper appro-
priated the Toorak Handicap and fin-
ished third in the Caulfield Cup won by
Journal. As a hurdler Larry Resta failed
repeatedly, and this was his first win of
any kind in several seasons.
Mares keep on winning in Sydney. At
Canterbury Park Moaenza (Flying),
Constant (Canterbury Handicap) and
Roginer (Highweight) carried off the
races on which most of the wagering was
done.
A. G. Papworth has useful mares in
his Rosehill stable. One is Morning
Gift, who won three races in succession
but had to strike her colors to Constant
in the chief event at Canterbury. Another
is Moaenza, who won the Flying Handi-
cap at Canterbury. Favorite was
Royal Ensign. Moaenza started af fixes.
Moaenza had to overcome obstacles
to success. She was hurdled off at the
barrier —a disadvantage on this course.
However, her rider, Watterson, had her
moving when the webbing went up, and
she was first away. Royal Ensign on the
rails dwelt slightly, and had to be hurried
to get to the lead. He battled on well, but
had no chance with Moaenza at the
weights. Samurai, third, surprised by
finishing stoutly. Aureus was fourth.
He was ridden by Bartle, who went for
a run on the rails at the home turn and
was disappointed.
Hickey’s fine horsemanship helped
little Constant in the Canterbury Handi-
cap. She started at fives, the crowd
going for Darby .Munro’s mount, Cid.
Morning Gift set a solid pace through-
out, but Constant had her beaten at the
top of the straight. Then Cid made a
fast run, but Constant was doing better
near the judge, and beat him by a neck ;
Morning Gift, who raised another effort
on the rails, was a head away. Alan
Verde was fourth. He was squeezed out
at the start and could never reach the
leader.
The two-year-olds Tobasco and Wai-
reka, winners at Rosehill, won again.
Tobasco (evens) led all the way in the
division for colts and geldings, and
Waireka (4 to 1 on) was never in danger
of defeat in the fillies’ division. Actu-
ally, Waikare’s big daughter scored by
eight lengths from Figurine and Hari-
nesta, and ran five furlongs in lmin. 2sec.,
equalling the track record; Tobasco’s time
was a second slower. Both will run in
the Kirkham Stakes at Warwick Farm.
Pastoralist J. J. Leahy bred and races
Bringa, who outstayed Unafraid and
Carinya—stablemate of Morning Gift
and Moaenza —in the Park Stakes.
Bringa ran a useful race in the last Aus-
tralian Cup, where he finished fifth, and
he may be a lightweight possibility for
the Summer Cup. Favorite at 5 to 2, he
ran the 11 furlongs in 2min. 22|sec. —
half a second outside the track record,
held by Tapestry.
Roginer beat The Card at Moorefield,
but looked a trifle lucky. They met
again in the Highweight on Saturday.
The Card (evens) could not get far away
from Harlowe, and, when the latter
dropped out at the home turn Roginer
(4 to 1), expertly ridden by Munro, flashed
up on the outside. She beat The Card
by 2| lengths. Harlowe was a poor
third ; the others were outclassed.
Outclassed also were the opponents of
Friar’s Switch in the Campsie Handi-
cap. Imbiber was second and Lucky Kid
third. Nine-ten told on Lucky Kid, who
was favorite, but it didn’t look as if she
would have had a chance with Friar’s
Switch at level weights. Hurdling has
improved him.
Tipping for four races only, The
Bulletin gave Constant and Friar’s
Switch. Sixes could be got about Con-
stant, and twos Friar’s Switch.
* * * *
There were four offspring of Spearfelt
among the 16 starters for the Queensland
Cup at Eagle Farm, and punters could
have shown a great profit by backing the
four both ways. Certainly only one, Will-
wear (Spearfelt-Ambertrumps), figured in
the finish, but Willwear won at 50 to 1,
his dividends (for 10s.) being £2B 19s. and
£9 3s. Seven Fifty was favorite at 7 to 2,
and The Buzzard’s son made a gallant
effort to lift the cup for W. A. Tucker,
but he was no match at the finish for
Willwear, who proved himself a true
stayer and cut out the two miles in 3min.
22sec. Consistent but unlucky Princess
Rivoli was third.
Willwear was ridden by Briscoe. He
is owned and trained by Abrahams, an
elderly Toowoomba tailor, who has been
interested in racing for half a century.
Remembering Corrigan’s explanation of
his Atlantic flight, Abrahams said he had
left his horse in the Cup “by mistake” ;
but the shrewd old party knew 'what he
was about, and didn’t forget to back the
noble animal.
* * * *
“D.E.”: A dozen acquaintances have
told me for a positive fact that the horse
that won the Melbourne Cup was not
Catalogue at all but Willie Win, and I
suppose the mugs who believe it can
be numbered by the thousand. If it is
true, Willie Win must have been brought
from Maoriland to Melbourne and taken
back immediately in a seaplane fitted with
a horsebox, for he ran at Motukarara,
Banks Peninsula, on October 29 (the
Cup was run on November 1), and at
Wellington on November 5. Long ago
a horse called Massinissa, who won a
Toorak Handicap and ran second in a
Caulfield Cup, was alleged to be really
Parthenopasus, a steed that had been
rubbed out the previous season after win-
ning a last race at Flemington. There
was as much foundation for that yarn
as there was for the Willie Win-Cata-
logue narrative. It might be remotely
possible to ring in an obscure horse from
another country in a Cup race at Flem-
ington, Caulfield or Randwick; but it
would be impossible in the case of an
animal with good local performances.
Yet, I suppose, simpletons will go on say-
ing from time to time that it has been
done.
(Sporting Notions continued on page 32.)
FOR CAULFIELD.
Eclipse Stakes: Young Idea;
next, Manolive.
Ormond Handicap: Hilton ; next,
Lautus.
Rosstown Plate: Manrico ; next,
Aurie’s Star.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Horsley Handicap: Manilla’s
Pride ; next, Hammerhead.
November Handicap: Osculum ;
next, Journal.
Leumeah Handicap: Lord Val-
entine ; next, Chicola.


#
1
With a Major
improvement
w
§
i
i
i
FOR EVEN GREATER SAFETY P
AND MILEAGE . . .
Latest of a long line of Goodyear-pioneered improve-
ments, Double Breaker Strip Construction brings to
Goodyear users greater safety and greater mileage
than has ever before been possible in a tyre. Speci-
fically, the advantages are:—
1. Greater protection against bruises and fractures.
2. Greater protection against tread separation.
3. Greater protection against carcass cuts.
No matter which Goodyear tyre you choose, you get
the right tyre to meet to-day’s motoring needs —at the
right price. Fit new Goodyear Tyres now.
t
£
/
n
S 3
m
r &
l
a
S 6
Si
*/
w
G 3
17/6
27/6
Double Breaker Strip Construction is now standard in all Coodyear Tyres
5—Cl3-38


. 'WI
Plan
your
tour
now!
The bracing climate, the easy accessibility to its famous scenic and
historic attractions, the facilities afforded by the Department,
ensure the utmost enjoyment and benefit from a Tasmanian holiday.
TASMANIA FOR SCENIC SPLENDOUR
is world famed. Decide now to spend your next vacation there.
Call or write for sailing dates and tour itineraries.
TASMANIAN GOVT. TOURIST DEPT
■SYDNEY 4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.O.
BRISBANE - - - IP6 Adelaide -Street
PERTH A.M.P. Building, William St.
MELBOURNE - - The Block, Collins St.
ADELAIDE 12 Pirie Street
HOBART - - Macquarie & Murray Sts.
iIfIOMIANI
CKV-Vip-
'9o6l
3 OUtS
maiOKiAxi
INVINCIBLE Marine Motors
18 Improved 1039 Models: 3 to 160 Horsepower. 1,2, 4,
6, S and 12 cylinder sizes: all 4-cycle types. Prompt
Deliveries: 300 Engines always in stock. Five Years’
Guarantee. All Spares Available.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues To-day.
Thousands of Invincible Marine Engines are in satisfac-
tory daily use all over the world, many of them for over
30 jears. Invincible Marine Engines hold a record for
Economy, Durability and Reliability; they are, size for
size and quality for quality, the lowest-priced Engines on
the world’s market to-day.
Before you decide on a new Engine for your Boat, investi-
gate the “Invincible”; you will never regret having
selected one.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George St., Sydney; and at Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Established in 1906,
SOUTH AFRICA
i
S3^?
K
■
m
fo'
BREATH TAKING
eve
Above:
The mighty Victoria
Falls the world's
greatest twice as
wide, and over two
and a half times as
high as Niagara.
The New 2 7,000 ton Shaw
Savill M. Vessel, “Dom-
inion Monarch,” largest
Liner to enter Australian
trade, sails from Sydney
2 7 th April, 1939.
Information
obtainable from all offices, of
DRLGETV & CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
Agents for South African Railways throughout Australia and New Zealand
M.Q. and Rafferty
The Alabama Kid’
In a night of assorted scrap at Leich-
hardt Stadium under Benny Bear guid-
ance, the Alabama Kid (list. 9|lb.)
proved far too hot for the second oppo-
nent he’s been matched against since
reaching these shores. The opposition
was Billy Wiseman (12st. 2|lb.), a
Bananaland champ. Billy certainly gave
no evidence that he wasn’t in good nick,
but he did look as if he’d been dieting
well on the fruits of his native heath. He
is tough and game, and in the two rounds
and a half he lasted he managed to get
home a few solid punches. He simply
wasn’t good enough.
Just how good the Kid is remains to be
shown. His first opponent was Starr,
brought along as Vic. champion. Meet-
ing Starr at the Sports Ground, he
knocked him in the first round. Before
he did so, however, Starr had hit him
with everything about the place, the
punches evidently lacking power, or else
the Kid adds toughness to his manifest
attributes.
One of the few pugs outside the gallant
figures of the old steel engravings to sport
a mo., the Kid smokes cigars, bands and
all, and yCt looks as if he could fight
for a fortnight. A very colorful personal-
ity apart from his natural hue, he’s a
powerful two-handed puncher of the
southpaw persuasion. Starr, for the little
time he was on his feet, had the right
idea of attack against that sort of fighter
—to go after him with the right hand.
But Starr succumbed very quickly to the
two-handed battery when the Kid,
manoeuvring him out of position, turned
that staggering offensive loose.
Wiseman depended on his toughness,
smothering against the onslaught and sud-
denly breaking the smother to let loose
haymaker swings. After the first half-
minute it was only a question of how
long his toughness would enable him to
keep on his feet. By the second round he
had become barely more than a punch-
ing block, with the Kid standing in and
over him and smashing his guard aside.
In the third the Queensland rep. was
down for eight, then down again. This
time the ref., after counting for a bit,
thought he heard the bell, and signalled
the fighters to their corners. Spotting his
mistake, he ordered them out again, but
Wiseman was in no state to continue, and
no one was sorry to see it thus ended
without his having to take more punish-
ment.
Neither of these scraps resolves how
good the Kid may be. He completely
outclassed the opposition in each case,
but neither Starr nor Wiseman is a top-
notcher. It is possible the Kid realised
that and fought accordingly. On the
other hand, it is a clear certainty that
if he went in to fight Richards in the
same unguarded fashion a right cross
would be on his jaw and the fight over
at once.
As for well-matched boxing, the high-
light of the Leichhardt evening was a
dandy scrap between Les Jobson (9st.
41b.) and AI Thomas (9st. 61b.). Billed
as a six-rounder, it was over in the fifth,
by when Thomas, though he’d put up a
capital showing, had had plenty. Jobson
“Now for a rhino, Major, and then We'll call it a day."
proved a nice boxer, counter-punching
in fine style and using his left, straight
and in hooks, as that noble implement
should be used. The crowd pronounced
its verdict by pelting the boys with coin
of the realm.
Chance for Prime Aus. Beef
Eddie Scarf, Empire Games champ,
and Olympic rep., threw his amateur
status to the winds and got into the
Rushcutter Bay ring last week to attack
one Assod Batros. Assod, however,
thought better of it in the dressing-room,
and so without a blow struck Eddie
moved on towards being hailed profes-
sional wrestling champ, of Australia.
Nobody in sight is likely to get between
him and that position, and if he can hold
his own against the imported grapplers
there should be good money in it for
him. Whether Eddie would be up to
those he’d be called on to meet is an-
other matter. Good wrestler as he is,
there is the serious matter of weight. He
tips the beam at a bit over 14st., but
from 15st. up to 17st. is the poundage of
the U.S.A. pros., and most of them are
pretty expert wrestlers into the bargain.
There should, however, be a great
chance for a hefty Australian in the
game. He’d need to be over 15st. and a
bit above 6ft., to learn how to put on
holds and break ’em, and to get himself
into good hard nick. Billed as Australian
champ, and good enough to live up to
the title, he would be a certain draw, and
should be' able to put aside a tidy roll in
a season. There should be plenty of the
right sort of material round about the
wharves or wherever toil is tough.
What sort of wicket the right local lad
would be on can be examined at the
Rushcutter Bay address every Monday
night. The season now approaching its
end has broken records. One night, at
least, there was the remarkable spec-
tacle of the “standing room only” up at
the back of the gods occupied all round,
and it has been a rare Monday night
through the season that there has not
been a good house.
One thing should be said for the mat-
men —they put on a good show, and
they’re always there on the tick, with
none of the postponing business that
afflicts boxing these days. The time
when Australian boxers were eager to
get into the ring against all-comers seems
to be over. There are at the moment not
less than four good American scrappers
in Australia apparently having the great-
est difficulty in finding anyone to fight.
No doubt in desperation, managements
are arranging for these chaps to fight
each other. Even that is better than the
present dearth of good scraps, but it’s a
sorry comment on the state of boxing in
Australia.
Ins criid Outs
“Mid-Leg”: The press attitude towards
athletes, particularly cricketers, becomes
more fulsome each year. In a welcome
home in Sydney Barnes was smothered
in butter, one speaker, who should have
known better, telling him his name would
rank as “among the greatest batsmen the
world has produced.” Writer has heard
almost that very phrase applied to one
or two other young phenomena of
cricket. Names that come to mind are
Robinson, Bromley and Badcock. Paste
’em in your lid, Barnes!
* * * *
“Hotham”: Melbourne newspapers and
canons —one canon, anyway—are froth-
ing over the criticism levelled by Oldfield
at Barnett’s ’keeping in England. Bert
was just as rough on Walker, but the
S. Aus. press is wisely saying nothing.
After all, Oldfield spoke, not as a
cricketer —he has retired —but as a paid
critic who had given his honest opinion
instead of slabbering verbal duco all
over the place. And as for the players,
criticised and otherwise, it must be re-
called that they are public performers,
and that the public has every right to
throw bouquets or eggs at them, as the
occasion requires.
=is $ * *
The Sheffield season starts with the
Queensland-N.S.W. match at Brisbane
from November 25 to 29. From
December 9-13, the M.C.C. centenary


“KING t °h f e ROAD’
BATTIUIS
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
.\V e<
to* 0 ’
0^
N 5
Va
91*
W
w,
m
WM
H
m
Your quests wi/f
favour t/our
OLD
COURT
FIRST QtMUTV
AUSTRALIA'S OLDEST
FINEST SMOOTHEST
WHISKY
Spread death and destruction
among the insects that pester
you—lnsectibane powder will
do it with devastating effect.
And Insectibane is safe, non-
irritating, can neither stain
nor taint! For positive results,
INSECTIBANE is your
weapon against every insect
pest. Chemists or stores
throughout Australia can
supply you: ask for Insec-
tibane !
INSECTIBANE
match will be played on Melbourne C.G.,
the Australian XI v. The Remnants.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Brisbane opinion is that
the only good thing in the N.S.W.-Q’land
Colts match in Sydney was the bowling
of the young Queensland left-hander,
Fitzgerald, who might turn out a worthy
successor to Hornibrook. The North
could do with a real left-hander. Indeed,
Australia is in the same box, for White
is not likely to get another chance after
his poor showing in England.
* * * *
The English cricketers have seven
games against the provinces before the
first Test at Johannesburg, which begins
on December 24. The others are: Cape
Town, beginning December 31 ; Durban,
January 20-24 ; Jo’burg, February 18-22 ;
and Durban, March 3-7.
* * * «
“Huon”: Tassie is early in the hunt for
new Australian cricket prodigies. It is
satisfied that in Thomas, of South Laun-
ceston, it has a worthy successor to
McDonald. A double hat trick is a recent
Thomas performance, and according to
local critics he can make the ball flight,
swing and do everything except give its
candid opinion of the Stunt Press.
* * * *
“Lancaster Park”: The annual report
of the M.L. cricket heads is doleful read-
ing. Heavy loss attended the tour of
England and Australia last year, the sum
dropped being just on four figures. Of
the special reserve fund for touring, care-
fully built up for some years, only £223
remains. Matters would have been worse
save for the generosity of the Australian
States in forgoing their share of gates.
Much is hoped from the visit of the
Julien Cahn team.
* * * * .
“Five Ways”: Christy, who announced
his retirement from the active side of the
game a couple of years ago, says he is
coming back to play against the Eng-
lishmen. Christy was brought over from
South Africa in 1932 by the Queensland
C.A., being one of its experiments in pro-
fessional coaches. Like Ducat, whom he
succeeded, the Afrikander couldn’t fit in,
and asked for cancellation of his con-
tract about half-way through. Since his
return to Africa, Christy has been a pro-
fessional coach. A good all-rounder at
home he did little with the ball in Aus-
tralia, either with the Africans or for
Queensland.
* * * *
“Whitecoat”: Even Jove nods.
Borwick, reckoned the best umpire in
Australia, was asked by Balmain’s
skipper, Winning, whether, if he closed
the innings when Balman was 140 be-
hind, with one wicket to go, Randwick
would have to bat again. Borwick said
Randwick would, and Winning, desiring
to get Randwick on a bowler’s wicket,
withdrew his last man and prepared to
field. Marks, Randwick’s skip, objected,
pointing out that in a two-day match the
margin was 100 runs and Balmain there-
fore had no right to order Randwick in.
The Laws were looked up and, after
hearing counsel for both sides on the
legal point of whether closing an innings
was “completing” one, Borwick admitted
he had been wrong in his decision.
Marks allowed Balmain to bat on, but
no more runs were scored and the wily
Balmainites had to bat again on the
mudheap.
Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: The Victorian G.A.,
which has been giving clearer definition
to the rules of “amateurism,” has now
adopted the new St. Andrews rule that
amateurs will be permitted only two
samples of a new ball from the manu-
facturers. It has been the practice in
the past to present prominent players
with anything up to a case of pills. Ball
manufacturers generally have agreed to
abide by the rule, so another little bit
of funny business is ended.
* * * *
“Kingston”: Victorians, like the
Queenslanders, have always made much
of their annual caddies’ tourney, and the
result has been the discovery of top-
notch players. The eighth annual cham-
pionship will be held at Cheltenham on
December 6 over 36 holes of stroke, and
contestants must be able to better 90 on
their own courses. There are special
prizes for youngsters under 18, and clubs
have been asked to each nominate two
boys under 15 to compete in another
special event. Entries close at Royal
Melbourne Club on November 24.
Racquet and Bawl
Yes, Budge has signed up as a pro.,
and for £18,750 Australian for a year,
with the option of taking a percentage
of gates. Local tennisers are yelping that
it makes Australia practically a moral
for next year’s Davis Cup. It’s well to be
warned that we’ve been pipped by un-
knowns before.
* * V *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Australian
Tennis Council is wording the States as
to whether Australia should challenge
for the next Davis Cup. One thing,
the prospective team should be freed as
much as possible from the proprietors of
performing circuses who work them to
death.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: There is a touch of
humor in Hopman’s report on the Davis
Cup team. He tried hard to get the
Americans to send along a side to play
in Australia this season. Riggs, Cooke,
Sabin and Shields were all keen to come,
but the tennis towkays said “no” em-
phatically through their noses. Riggs
was blocked because it “came to official
cars” that he had been playing fast and
loose with the laws of amateurism. Then
the authorities relented, and said they’d
unchain Riggs if Hopman could pick out
a chaperon for him. Hopman suggested
Shields, whereupon the towkays went off
in a dead faint and had to be revived
with Old Bourbon. Sabin is also doubt-
ful, and Cooke put himself out of court
by letting Hoppy beat him before the
Australian started for home.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Good to see Hopman’s
opinion that during the coming tennis
season the utmost attention should be
given to the footfault question. Unless
Quist gets out of his swinging over and
jumping faults every umpire abroad will
be watching for him. Hopman advo-
cates as the only cure that a rigid foot-
fault umpire attend every match Quist
plays in. He says Bromwich, McGrath
and Schwartz are by no means guiltless
of footfaulting.
The council of the Victorian L.T.A.
has resolved to “dissociate itself com-
pletely from any suggestion that the
conduct of Adrian Quist during the
Davis Cup challenge round had in any
way been unsportsmanlike.” There were
reports to the effect that Quist squealed
v/hen footfaulted. All the members of
the team deny that there was any squeal-
ing, and that is good to know. Squealing
is foreign to the tradition and practice
of Australian travelling teams in all
branches of sport.
Miscellaneous.
“Blade”: The N.S.W. eight-oared
championship on the Nepean should be
a great sight, for an armada of eight
boats will face the starter. The crews
are Balmain, Haberfield, Mosman,
Shore, Pittwater, Police and two from
Sydney club. Police is the heaviest;
averaging 12st. 7flb., with the two Syd-
neys next, each a trifle lighter. Haber-
field, which won the State fours in great
style, is lightest but 6ne, at list. 51b.
Pittwater is just short of list. 21b.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: There is a large fat
laugh in the news that the Olympic Con-
ference at Cairo has sanctioned 3s.
a day spending money, and, in special
circumstances, payments to wife, mother
or father, without loss of amateur status.
After all, it is only coming out in the
open. For years many of the European
countries have paid daily allowances of
varying amounts —England allows 3s. a
day to athletes only—but in America
and elsewhere the sky’s the limit.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: As expected, the confer-
ence between the Australian National
Football Council —which is the V.F.L. —
the V.F.A. and the Victorian Amateur
F.A., with a view to establishing a uni-
form code for Australian Rules football,
died untimely. After the usual twaddle
the conference ajdjourned, though, as
usual, “the door was not closed against
further efforts to bring about co-ordina-
tion.”
* * * *
“Old Q.”: A “body-in-the bag” tragedy
was enacted at the N.S.W.R.U. annual
when an apprehensive delegate from
Westralia introduced a shrinking motion
in favor of an Australian R.U. to take
the place of the N.S.W. junta which tries
to run the show. There was the usual
dull thud, followed by a shriek, and the
lifeless motion was interred until some-
one has the nerve to dig it up again. The
funeral notice was issued later —it was
to the effect that a meeting of Australian
delegates will be held some time to con-
sider the matter.
“Stand Off”: At the N.S.W.R.U. meet-
ing, L. B. Callaghan, who can speak with
some authority, said that the standard of
Australian Rugby was rotten. He urged
the Union to revive the old-time forward
play, which vanished when the R.U. rules
were merged with some of those of the
professional League. A fearful lot of rot
is talked about “dashing, open play.”
Unless the forwards make that possible,
the backs can stand all the afternoon
wondering what they are there for.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: George Nepia, men-
tioned in a recent Bulletin, is not the
only footballer with a high opinion of
his own value. Mr. Reardon, of Bris-
bane, was asked his price for a transfer
to a Sydney club. Mr. Reardon was the
star turn of the recent rather nebulous
Kangaroo galaxy in England, and, after
considering the matter, he issued his
terms —a three years’ contract at £5OO
p.a., a £6 a week job and free board
and lodging. The Sydney crowd are
still sunk in coma.
* * * *
“Gate”: Sydney Rugby Leaguers are
sighing for the good old days when a
successful team dished out to gladi-
ators as much as £l5O in a season. The
best earnings this year amount to £5l
for three players of Canterbury-Banks-
town who played 16 matches. St. George
could pay only 14s. a match, while
Eastern Suburbs, whose players once
sniffed at anything under £l2O a season,
coughed up £2 per match.


o-tu-'vs^
1.'.1d I:'.' 'I :i. H
Twice. Daily-230-3
AT THE.
?
SWING
IT,”
Frank Neil presents
with
LARRY
ADLER
and New Oversea All Star Acts.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: Cent. 928-929.
New Oversea Stars,
THE CHANG
SHOW
EMILE
BOREO
PEG LEG
BATES
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: M 6835.
FREE SAMPLE
SENT OF RE-NU
LIQUID NU-METAL
Just deposit thru plug holes; reconditions any engine while-U-drive. Saves
rebore ends piston slap, oil. petrol waste; restores compression, new power, top-
speed ’ zip, etc. Guaranteed good for 10,000 miles. Harmless finest engine.
TRI4.L TUBE, 6/6; or we send C.O.D. Advice. Literature, free. RE-NU, LTD.,
opp. Richmond Station, Melbourne. Agents required; 20 other lines. Free samples.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Festival of Remembrance.
The outstanding thing about this
annual production at Sydney Town Hall
on the evening of Armistice Day is that
it is dinkum.
The production has been developed or
has evolved into a clear-cut form. It
opens on a light note reminiscent of the
beginnings of the A.1.F., and for a while
runs along in that fresh and carefree
style, with a good striding movement, the
swagger of martial music and a right
recollection of the fact that if there was
one thing the A.I.F. was never without it
was a lively sense of humor.
So far it has the character, and many
of the original items, of a good A.I.F.
concert party. As it goes on items
steadily become more serious, until by
the time the production’s ritualistic
climax is reached the audience has been
brought to a proper mood for feeling its
significance.
With the audience standing—this, no
doubt, has its beginning somewhere, but
there is no order for it, the audience
seeming to rise involuntarily—there is a
trooping of A.I.F. colors up the aisles to
the front of the platform ; trumpeters,
naval guards and others enter from dif-
ferent points and form up across the
stage; lights are dimmed and a cross
appears as a focal point high against the
organ pipes, in tiers at the foot of which
stand the white-shirted boys’ choir ; there
is the sounding of “The Last Post” by the
trumpeters, a brief solo ringing out from
the organ loft, the speaking of a frag-
ment of Laurence Binyon’s “To the
Fallen,” “Reveille,” the combined sing-
ing of “Abide with Me,” and over all
this the dark, whispering fall of 100,000
poppy petals, one for each Digger who
lost his life in the war or died since.
It is a striking piece or ritual with the
singular merit of not becoming maudlin.
It is impossible for feeling not to be
strongly moved by it, but it is kept clean
and bright both by the brevity of it and
its conclusion in “Reveille,” with a lively
air immediately after.
In all respects so far touched on the
production is so steeped in the authentic
Digger character that in its own nature it
amounts to a positive piece of genuine
folklore. All the more remarkable, there-
fore, one thing missing from it.
There was a band composed of Aus-
tralians —and no doubt others —including
Diggers, and in their dress they did honor
to the great traditions of the Scots. There
were naval men who did honor to the
Navy. There were trumpeters and others
in the blue and red artillery uniform.
There was not a sign of the uniform
of the A.I.F.
What is wrong with that uniform, can
anybody explain? Purely as a uniform,
apart from being an essential and positive
part of A.I.F. tradition, it had merit.
Isn’t it worn any more?
Success of the Ballet.
Ernest C. Rolls, assisted by the most
impressive array of international talent
in Melbourne theatrical history, has cer-
tainly made a do of Russian ballet, and
a very good do into the bargain. Packed
houses have been the rule at His
Majesty’s.
Last week “The Hundred Kisses” was
bestowed on delighted audiences, who
went into ecstasies of admiration.
Guila Bustabo.
Guila Bustabo, on her return visit
to Sydney, gave at the Town Hall the
most enjoyable recital of her tour.
The evening’s highlight was Wieniaw-
ski’s Second Concerto —not perhaps
music of the. Parnassian heights,
but full of feeling, splendidly suited
to the fiddle, and affording the
young player opportunity not only
to display her grace and agility in
ornamental passages, but her beautiful,
sonorous tone and silk-smooth legato in
the “Romance” section.
A violin transcription of Debussy’s
platinum blonde, a Gluck operatic
melody and the “Dance of the Der-
vishes” from Beethoven’s “Mount of
Olives” were unusual and welcome con-
tributions.
Miss Bustabo’s final recital had as its
kingpin the “Kreutzer” Sonata, which she
played cleverly and clearly, with a dash-
ing opening and a whirlwind of sparkles
in the concluding tarantella. A grand
ovation closed her Sydney season.
Fine Amateur Play.
Once in a blue moon amateurs re-
store faith in the theatre, as in the New
Theatre performance of Irwin Shaw’s
“Bury the Dead,” at Melbourne Apollo.
Shaw presents his anti-war statement
tellingly, and Florence English, the
producer, and the forty or so amateurs
gave such a good rendering that it is
almost unnecessary to single out players
Mickey Rooney (aloft), Freddie Bartholomew (on the way down), Terry Kilburn
(“Ai, hut it’s easy, load!”), and bos’n Herbert Mundin, in “The Boy from
Barnardo’s” at Sydney Liberty.
for approval. David Gofflin, Alex.
Anderson, William Isaacs, Lilian
Diamond, Gwen Millard, Janet Murray,
Jane Chesterton, Muriel Goode and Jean
Davies carried the longer parts with
distinction.
“The Boy from Barnardo’s.”
Freddie Bartholomew, Mickey Rooney.
Good acting, good sentiment and a
pleasing lot of people playing pleasing
parts make this main M.-G.-M. offering at
Sydney Liberty tiptop film entertainment.
If the branch of Barnardo’s depicted is
as represented, it must be one of the most
understanding, sensible and human
schools for boys on the face of the earth.
It is that for shaping youngsters for the
mercantile marine, and it’s shown making
good men out of all manner of material.
The film is otherwise notable for the
total absence of what usually passes as
“feminine interest.” There are only a
couple of women in it; one of them is
a crook, the other a matronly person at
the home. Calf love or anything re-
motely resembling it is kept out. Apart
from one inexplicable moment, when no-
good lady embraces young Bartholomew
in a style that would do in a seduction
scene, it is a masculine yarn of boys
and men, just sentimental enough to be
common experience.
Bartholomew does his customary
expert stretch of acting as a snob associ-
ate of jewel crooks, he being nabbed
and sent to the home after they have
got off with a valuable bauble. They
and the bauble enter again before the
end to make a story of it; but the best
of the film is his conflict with the boys
and heads at the home and the gradual
humanising of him. His performance is
equalled, if not capped, by that of
Rooney ; perhaps the casting of Rooney
as leading honor boy of the school makes
as plain as anything could the masculine
sort of school it is. Anyway, he does
a capital job ; and for the rest, M.-G.-M.
have got together a splendid lot of young-
sters. One with a broad North of Eng-
land accent looks like a real comedy find.
“Four’s a Crowd.”
Rosalind Russell, Olivia de Havilland, Errol
Flynn, Pal lie Knowles.
Fast and snappy comedy is something
at which the Yanks excel —in fact, half
their humor gets across by reason of the
quickfire method —and it is sheer speed
and vigor that make this offering at Syd-
, ,
ney Regent such a dam good enter-
tamer.
Rosalind is a news-sleuth —not the
usual Hollywooden variety, but a gay
gossip-monger and scandal-hunter, and
therefore more or less credible. Patric
controls the sheet, which is nearing the
rocks. No good to Rosalind, who knows
the very man to save their bacon-Errol,
of course. His forte is inducing million-
aires to make philanthropic gestures to
ensure being remembered as public bene-
factors. Errol in due course is elected
managing editor of the fast-failing rag,
even though relations between him and
Patric are slightly strained.
Olivia, considering Patric as a pos-
sible spouse, is the daughter of an eccen-
tric millionaire who won’t fall for Errol’s
wangling. To complicate matters further
Olivia falls for Errol, but still keeps Pat-
ric in mind ; Rosalind has also fallen
for Errol, who can’t make up his own
mind ; Patric has fallen for Olivia, but
thinks Rosalind has fallen for him, and
can’t make up his mind, either.
Except, perhaps, the Russell, none of
them has any particular outstanding his-
trionic ability and none of their roles
calls for it; they work on their parts for
all they’re worth, seemingly intent on giv-
ing everyone, themselves included, a
good laugh. Witness Errol in bathing
trunks sprinting along millionaire’s
garden path to escape a score of cavern-
mouthed hounds; also the other three
all doing their bit equally well, particu-
larly when trying to sort themselves out
for the final marriage ceremony.
There’s no let-up on the pace from
start to finish, and whenever it threatens
to lag there’s Walter Connolly —a better
comedian and providing more and better
comedy than any of them —as the much-
pestered but still-stubborn millionaire;
Melville Cooper as his long-suffering
attendant, and Hugh Herbert as a
muddled J.P. performing marriage cere-
monies while pleading with the victims to
remain unspliced.
“Rose of the Rio Grande.”
John Carroll.
A little more spit and polish and this
length of musical Mexican banditry at
Sydney Capitol would have humped
itself into the class of film-fare that is
heralded all over the landscape on half-
acre hoardings.
The filmsmiths would have done better
in giving Mr. Carroll more opportunity
to air his warbling. Without being much
of an actor he’s a fine cut of a man,
knows it and swaggers accordingly but
effectively, and pours out a rich, pleasing
baritone.
For the rest it’s derring-do in Old
Mexico when the soldiers rebelled and
killed the ar-/m7a-crats, some of whom
escaped to go bush and to take to sniping
off the soldiery by way of revenge.
Mr. Carroll follows that pastime, and,
in between warbling, shooting with
pleasant abandon and masquerading
among the soldiers, he dallies with a pert
little Mexican minx called Movita, who
won’t have anything to do with him
because she’s an ar-reesta-crdt in dis-
guise, and because she loves a dashing
bandit she’s never met, who is really
Mr. Carroll all the time.
Worth a visit just to hear Mr. Carroll’s
warbling.
“Crackerjack.”
Tom Walls.
Wherein Mr. Walls is presented at
Sydney State as a Robin Hood and
Raffles rolled into one. An English
production, it contrasts more than favor-
ably with the Hollywooden effort which
features on the same bill.
Mr. Walls pinches somebody’s pearls
and then has to clear his reputation of a
moider committed after he bad per-
petrated his felony. In between he enjoys
the company of a baroness who is out
to put him behind the bars or, perhaps,
marry him.
There have been quite a few films of
this class popping up lately, and it’s a
healthy sign for the British-made brand.
“I Am the Law”
Ed. G. Robinson, Otto Kruger.
Ed. G. Robinson, at Sydney Cameo,
is a law professor called in to clean
up city’s racketeers ; nacherally they think
he’s dumb, and nacherally he isn’t. That’s
about all there is to it, except that the
young lawyer who helps him in the good
work, John Beal, is Otto Kruger’s son,
and, not having been to the talkies much,
doesn’t know that smiling Otto is gang-
ster in chief.
Robinson is more entertaining when he
isn’t the Law ; but he is as convincing
as usual, and his performance holds the
piece together. There’s a liberal sprink-
ling of humor, and a moment of real
drama when a witness for whom Robin-
son is sending a car steps into the wrong
bus and is “taken for a ride.”
“Mr. Moto f s Last Warning.”
Peter Lorre.
The adventures of the intrepid Mr.
Moto form a substantial addition to any
programme, especially when, as at Syd-
ney Regent just now, the staple attrac-
tion is light comedy.
For the latest episode the setting is
Port Said, where the British fleet is await-
ing the French fleet’s arrival for joint


THE PRIZEWINNERS.
Sixth Limerick Competition.
FIRST PRIZE, £4O.
Mrs. M. M. Lennon, 37 New South
Head-road, Vaucluse, Sydney.
TEN £1 PRIZES:
E. Beaton, 53 Lincoln-street, Largs
Bay ((S.A.).
J. Gough, 6 Power-avenue, Haw-
thorn (Vic.).
Helen Hughes, Waratah House,
Bayswater-road, King’s Cross,
Sydney. ,
Mrs. J. H. Nicklin, Pleystowe Mill,
Pleystowe, via Mackay (N.Q.).
E. J. Gorman, Myall Downs, Cooia-
tai, via Inverell (N.S.W.).
C. P. T. Throsby, 17 Ranfurley-
road, Edgecliff (N.S.W.).
G. E. Douglas, Scottsdale (Tas.).
D. K. Ramsay, No. 10, Agincourt,
572 Old South Head-road,
Bellevue Hill, Sydney.
Alan A. Dean, P.O. Box 361,
Cairns (N.Q.).
H. Daniel, c/o F. S. Brown, 16
York-street, Sydney.
k
X-v--
. . . THE FRIENDLY
SATISFYING CHARM OF BARNEYS
Men talk about Barneys almost as if it were human, as though it had being . . . “friendliest
of all Tobaccos,” one smoker called it. One enthusiast got close to the heart of things
when he said: “There are times when a man needs not exactly a companion but a
sense of companionship . . . and Barneys supplies this need.”
How true this is can only be realised fully by those to whom the need is greatest . . .
amongst them those Barneys smokers in the lonely places of the earth! Just ponder this
. . . from a Barneys smoker exiled in the Arctic: “Up here in the far North comforts
are few and far between, and for me at least Tobacco ranks ‘number one’ —and only
the best is good enough.”
Limerick Competitions
EIGHTH COMPETITION
£5O Prizes
The announcement of the Eighth
£5O Limerick Competition appears
in this issue on Page 41 (Radio
Page).
Particulars of the Seventh Competi-
tion are repeated.
If you have found the Tobacco which takes
the place of friends—and sometimes, if needs
be, of food and drink ... be thankful . . .
don’t think of changing. But if you are still
seeking the Tobacco which measures up, in
goodness and smoking satisfaction, to all that
a good Tobacco can . . . try cheery, chummy,
honest Barneys. There are three strengths,
all equally good. No other Tobacco has won
such praise from smokers well qualified to judge.
Each is sold in
the patent “Everfresh”
tin. 2 ozs. for 2/7.
c At all good tobacconists .. . ask for
Barneys
(medium)
Parsons Pleasure
(mild)
Punchbowle
(full strength)
jßarnejJs
The Ideal Tobacco
?
manoeuvres, and where some doity furrun
Power, wishing to strain relations be-
tween the two countries, has planted its
agents to blow up half the oncoming
French fleet.
Mr. Lorre and an associate or two deal
with the dastards in the approved manner.
Adelaide Reps.
“Dodie” Smith’s “Service,” Adelaide
Repertory’s tenth and last play of the
year, is a sort of modern version of the
Book of Job.
Gabriel Service, head of an old-estab-
lished firm of universal providers, is in
difficulties all round: sales falling off,
a cheap-selling rival firm about to buy
him out —and his incredibly cynical
young second wife leaves him. Then the
pendulum swings. His son and daughter
and various unconsidered employees
rally round surprisingly.
Robert Matthews was the competent
Job of the story, and some 30 others
gave clever character studies.
Harold Abbott’s Show.
Harold Abbott, one of the younger
generation of Sydney artists, trained by
Julian Ashton, shows some fulfilment of
the promise of a prizewinning student
career in his show at the Macquarie
Galleries.
Most notable of the exhibits are the
portraits. Mr. Abbott has secured com-
missions from various Society folk, and
the results are happy. A big picture of
Miss Jcanie Ranken is well-posed, nicely-
balanced and smoothly-painted, and it is
an excellent likeness. Portraits of Joan
Stirling Levis and of various children
(especially “Dick”) are conscientious in
their workmanship. “Pamela,” a por-
trait of Mrs. Blake Pelly, suffers from a
blue-red color scheme.
Flower and still-life studies which
buttress the portraits are competently
done, but not outstanding. A chalk
drawing, “Richard,” demonstrates the ex-
cellence of the artist’s draughtsmanship
in portraiture.
Norman Lindsay Etchings.
Melbourne connoisseurs of Norman
Lindsay’s etchings are surveying a rep-
resentative collection at the Fine Arts,
comprising prints (not proofs) of the most
characteristic examples from 1918 to
1924. From the point of view of re-
production they could hardly be distin-
guished from the originals.
A fact that seems evident to any ob-
server who has been taking a course of
Russian ballet is that Lindsay owes a
great deal of his inspiration to the
theatre. “Ballet Entrance” is an instancp.
If a ballerina at His Majesty’s entered
after the fashion of Lindsay’s ladies there
would be a riot, but the general concep-
tion, especially the fragments of dainty
clothing scattered arbitrarily about the
figures, irresistibly suggests the ballet. So
does the impish, pompous or self-con-
scious expressions of the dwarfs, gnomes,
satyrs and other human properties of the
Lindsay pantheon. They all look as if
they are playing serio-comic parts under
the spotlight.
Ambrose Hallen’s Pictures.
Ambrose Hallen, a great-grandson of
Lawson the explorer, studied art in
France and is considered there to be a
French artist, having exhibited with lead-
ing Parisian societies. His first Victorian
show is at Riddell’s Galleries, Melbourne,
and comprises oils and water-colors. He
uses pigment with such a fine disregard
for economy that there is somewhere
about enough paint on one of his can-
vases to serve a more frugal painter for
a whole exhibition.
His French landscapes more or less
fulfil the modernist fashion, and in one
or two of his seascapes he has felt the
shock that Nature sometimes gives us,
but he appears to lack the skill or the
patience yet to deal with the more subtle
nuances of the Australian scene in an
interesting manner.
Painters in Adelaide.
Lionel Lindsay’s show at the Society
of Arts Gallery, opened by Hans Heysen,
“introduced” by Will Ashton, is a notable
affair.
The traveller has ranged through Spain
(pre-war), Venice, Northern Africa and
India, and set them all down faithfully
as they live —mainly bathed in sunshine.
Etchings and woodcuts, such as those
which brought him fame at last year’s
Paris Exhibition, are masterly as ever,
and the more novel tinted drawings allow
his draughtsmanship full play.
The National Gallery of Adelaide has
bought two of these, Spanish, including
a brilliant moonlight effect; also a water-
color from Venice.
SIXTH LIMERICKS.
Sixth Limerick Competition
brought easily the largest number of en-
tries to date, and it also brought an un-
usually bright lot of lines. An extraordi-
nary number of competitors entered so
thoroughly into the spirit of whimsicality
at they sent in their lines without names
or addresses, and one wild humorist from
Westralia sent in his coupon without
name or address and also without his
line.
The first prize of £4O went to Mrs.
M. M. Lennon, of 37 New South Head-
road, Vaucluse, Sydney. The complete
Limerick with her last line reads:
A speedhog when trying to show
What a demon his car was to go
Ran it far up a gum,
And remarked, looking glum,
“What a bore! I must change into low!”
The pleasantly mad little picture of the
motorist stuck away up the tree and non-
chalantly driving on was submitted by a
number of competitors; Mrs. Lennon
expressed it the most happily. She takes
the last of the £4O first prizes that will be
awarded in these competitions, as for the
seventh and subsequent Limericks, though
the total prize-money of £5O remains
unaltered, the first prize has been reduced
to £2O to allow more £1 prizes to be dis-
tributed among the entrants.
The 10 £1 prizes in the Sixth Competi-
tion were awarded as follows:
One each to E. Beaton, of Largs Bay
(S.A.), and J. Gough, of Hawthorn (Vic.),
for the same sort of notion as took the
£4O prize. Mr. Beaton suggested:
Did she do it in top, do you know?
Mr. Gough:
Well, that’s as high as she’ll go.
Helen Hughes, of King’s Cross, Syd-
ney, like another competitor who put it
just less amusingly, had a tilt at a well-
known painter of gumtrees:
If Hans Heysen’s about it’s a blow.
Mrs. J. H. Nicklin, of Pleystowc
(N.Q.), put it:
That reminds me, it did say “Go Slow J”
E. J. Gorman, of Coolatai (N.S.W.),
and C. P. T. Throsby, of Edged iff
(N.S.W.), sent the lighthearted efforts:
Now I’ve grafted her on, will she grow?
and
The tree’s just a trifle “de trop.”
G. E. Douglas, of Scottsdale (Tas.),
said:
The lawns about here want a mow.
D. K. Ramsay, of Bellevue Hill,
Sydney, touched the true injured inno-
cence of the motorist: —•
These trees ought to learn to go slow.
Alan A. Dean, of Cairns (N.Q.), had
one of the sprightliest lines of the lot:
How absurd! Ask some bird for a tow.
Scores of entrants had the fancy that
the car would make “a nest for a crow ’ ;
H. Daniel, of York-street, Sydney, caught
an appropriate tone of gloom:
It might make a nest for a crow.


HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAIHFUL
BACKACHE
Caused by Tired Kidneys
Many of those gnawing, nagging, painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can
be relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are one of Nature’s chief ways
of taking acids and wastes out of the blood.
A healthy person should pass about 3 pints a
day and so get rid of more than 3 pounds of
waste matter.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, this poisonous waste stays in
the body. It may start nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Don’t let it lay you up.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
duick relief and will help to flush out the 15
miles of kidney tubes. So be sure you get
LOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
Plan Now
For
Comfort
in London.
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Bachflat, Lesquare, London.
100 bedrooms, with bathroom
and ’phone. Fully licensed
restaurant open till midnight.
Special rates for Overseas
visitors.
Details from
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Wednesday.
mr
f
If
r'
TtifM/MOROF
MOD HF/UTH*
Good health is the secret of a clear
skin. Yeaston Tablets bring you the
health - inducing, system - cleansing
goodness of active yeast in pleasant
form.
YE ASTON
TABLETS
3G«w2' 100/77# 4'b
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
For two minutes on a day last week
the pulse of the city stopped. Staffs
in offices and shops ceased work, and
people going about their business in the
city streets stood with bowed heads. In
Martin-place 7000 people had gathered
for the Armistice Day service. Many
had come early. They had seen the four
sentries take their places, and with arms
reversed stand on guard at the Cenotaph.
They had seen the sun flash on the
bayonets carried by sailor, soldier and
flying man as detachments from the three
services had marched into position. The
lowering of flags to half-mast had been
watched with quickened breath.
Just before 11 o’clock the Governor
and Lady Wakehurst arrived. At the
hour the only sound in the crowded
street was the rustle of the tender green
leaves of the slim young poplars that
stand sentrylike at each side of the Ceno-
taph. The “Last Post” sounded. The
Governor placed his wreath of poppies
and laurel at the base of the Cenotaph.
Soon the memorial was massed with
(lowers. Seven thousand voices sang
“O God, Our Help in Ages Past.” Flags
were raised slowly, reaching the mast-
heads as the last notes of the “Reveilld”
died away.
The sale of poppies this year was
phenomenal. The sellers, 5284 of them,
all voluntary, were out on the streets as
early as 6 a.m. Many of them were
women who had done voluntary war ser-
vice, and they worked as untiringly on
Friday (they were still at their posts at
6 p.m.) as they had done in 1914-1918.
A quarter of a million poppies are
made every year at the poppy factory run
in conjunction with the R.S. and S.L. Its
staff consists of a soldier’s widow, a
Digger and a Digger’s son. This year
it made wreaths, and the Premier’s and
other official wreaths came from the fac-
tory. The Governor’s was the work of
Mrs. Crosby, widow of a blinded Anzac,
Sergeant-Major Crosby.
The invitation to the unveiling at the
Royal Prince Alfred Hospital of a Statue
of the Egyptian god of medicine
Imhotep had all Sydney guessing. No
one seemed to have heard of the Egyptian
deity before, and the, hospital wasn’t
giving out much information. But on
the day the mystery was solved. In a
neat and complete little brochure, a copy
of which was handed to every visitor,
Dr. Schlink tells all about him. He was
a highly-trained and efficient magician
who lived in the time of Pharaoh Zoser.
He held the highest religious and civic
offices, he was responsible for the Trea-
sury, the Army, the Navy, the Interior,
Agriculture and the General Executive.
He was the Chief Lector Priest, and the
“Supervisor of that which Heaven brings,
the Earth creates, and the Nile brings.”
He was the earliest philosopher,
astronomer, poet and wise man known
in the world’s history. But it was his
fame as a healer that raised him to the
rank of a medical demigod.
The day of the unveiling was so hot
that even reading about Imhotep’s activi-
ties made one dizzy. It was so hot it
deserved the title of an Egyptian day
given it by Lady Wakehurst as she pulled
the cord that released the Australian flag
that veiled the statue. It was so hot
that earlycomers took up their position
under the trees, in doorways or in any
scrap of shade provided by the buildings,
and left the chairs for the late arrivals.
It was so hot that the policemen
tried to stand in each other’s shadows
to escape the glare. It was so hot that
even while the speeches were being made
people's thoughts turned to the cup of
tea that they knew was waiting them
in the marquee on the lawn at the back
of Gloucester House.
The official guests were lucky in that
they viewed the ceremony from a balcony
of Gloucester House, but perhaps the
large garden umbrellas under which they
were grouped did not afford them as
much comfort as the onlookers below
imagined. After the unveiling Dr.
Schlink presented Lady Wakehurst with
a miniature statue of Imhotep. Among
the importants of the afternoon was
Matron Dun.
This is Bobby Goulston, who was just
getting a foothold in London when
rumors of war forced her to face home-
wards. At least, it was the agitated cables
from a distracted father and mother,
the S. J. Goulstons, of Lang-road, Cen-
tennial Park, that decided her to sail on
the Orion, due in Sydney to-day. Bobby
is now 21. Before leaving for England
two years ago she had her B.A. degree,
and had had training in toe-dancing at
the Lightfoot-Burlakov studios. At the
Royal Academy, London, her teachers
were Alban Jeynes, A.R.A.M., and Ann
Baker, A.R.A.M., and she took classes
in drama, mime, reading and classical
dancing. Both teachers speak highly
of the young Australian’s work,
especially in connection with chil-
dren’s programmes, and a letter from
a L.C.C. school tells of the success
that attended a short course in
elocution which she gave to a number
of its small pupils. But there was no-
thing childish about the recital she gave
in London, entitled “Comedy and
Tragedy.” Shakspeare, A. P. Herbert,
Kipling, W. S. Gilbert, Masefield are
some of the names that appeared on this
programme. Under the same title Bobby
will give a recital at the Forum Club on
November 24. A Monte Luke photo-
graph.
Dr. A. W. D’Ombrain and that other
good Australian the gum-tree are not
only acquaintances, they are intimate
friends. The friendship began when the
doctor, some years ago, was making his
daily round by car in the Hunter River
Valley. There the beauty and variety
of the gum-trees fascinated him, and he
wanted to be able to call each by its
own particular name. But he found
that no book illustrating and naming
them was in existence. So he set about
making a book of his own which would
give the appearance of the whole tree,
its shape, color, foliage and bark.
He and the artist Tydfyl Evans, whose
lovely illustrations were painted at such
addresses as Four Mile Creek, East
Maitland, Banks of the Hunter River,
Bolwarra and Tocal, are to be thanked
for this Gallery of Gum-trees.
The doctor’s writing has the lyric note
of the true lover warming the concise
clarity of his words. From this book
it would seem that if the bush were alto-
gether without other blooms our land-
scape would be rich in beauty. The
slender beauty of the sugar-gum and
the lemon-scented gum have the delicacy
of a ballerina when compared with the
strong qualities of the Tasmanian blue-
gum and the ironbark.
Dr. D’Ombrain married Edna, one of
the clever Fergusson Murdoch sisters.
Before becoming Mrs. D’Ombrain she
was a lecturer in psychology at the
Teachers’ College. Edith was a practis-
ing barrister in London when she met
the New York barrister, John Tirie. Now
she lives in New York and is a well-
known magazine and newspaper writer,
while Marjorie ie attached to Blackfriars
Nursery School.
Harold Abbott has done portraits of
so many people you know that going
into his show at the Macquarie Galleries
is like going into a room filled with
friends and acquaintances. There is the
very large portrait of Jeanie Ranken ;
there is Mrs. Blake Pelly—Pamela Laid-
ley Dowling that was —her head rising
from a cloud of sky-blue draperies;
there is Joan Stirling Levis, in the inner
room, a glorious shade of pink in her
blouse and a spot of the same shade
on hair and checks. Jeanie and loan
were both there, seeing themselves
through the artist’s eyes ; and, judging
from the look of Mrs. Laidley Dowling’s
face, the portrait of her daughter found
favor in her eyes.
The Gordon lady made the opening
speech and afterwards left with the
artist’s mother. Eugenia McNeill’s pink
frock was a nice spot of color ; her small
black hat had roses nestling in the up-
turned brim. Cecil Weston looked cool
in navy-and-white ; so did Joan Water-
house in her geranium-red linen suit and
large white hat. Mrs. Wilfrid Fairfax
had so many friends to greet that it is
doubtful if she managed to see any of
the pictures. Mrs. K. Jamison’s bolero
was grass-green, and was worn with a
white frock.
The sympathy of everyone in the room
went out to Mr. and Mrs. Nelson, who
with daughters Phyllis and Midge had
motored down from Dubbo to see the
portrait of their son Wallace. Wallace,
himself a just-beginning artist, had died
on the Sunday after an operation.
Wallace, even as a youngster, was an
admirer of The Bulletin artists, and he
always remembered the friendly encour-
agement he received from Ted Scorfield
and Frith when he started his studies.
On Friday a welcome-home party was
given by Mrs. C. E. Williams, of
McMahon’s Point, for her daughter Billie,
who had arrived home that day in the
Pierre Loti. Billie, who had been away
just on twelve months, arrived at the
Chelsea Club looking very sunbrowned
and gay in a London tan frock and hat
to match. Sister Edna, who helped Mrs.
Williams to receive the guests, wore
royal-blue romaine.
Billie is another Sydney girl whose stay
in Europe was cut short by rumors of
war. She boarded the Eridan at Mar-
seilles. This took her as far as Noumea,
where she had to tranship for Sydney.
Coming this route it took her just seven
and a half weeks to reach home. But
she saw something of the French West
Indies. Curasao, in the Dutch West
Indies (no, the liqueur is not made there ;
it is made in Amsterdam from the skins
of the bitter Curasao oranges), she de-
scribes as “neat and trim,” and the
Panama Canal as picturesque. Papeete
she found “carefree and noisy.” An-
other port of call was Port Vila in the
New Hebrides. Many of the migrants
who travelled out with her (some as far
as Noumea only) the Sydney girl found
charming, but she was surprised that,
although she came out on a French liner,
German was practically the only
language spoken.
On November 3 Dorothy Webb, the
slim blonde daughter of The Bulletin’s
editor, got married with the faintest
whisper of orange buds at St. Matthew’s
Church, Marryatville, South Australia.
Dorothy was in that State for a holiday
and turned it into a honeymoon by be-
coming Mrs. Archie Thompson. The
’groom is the eldest son of Mr. and Mrs.
M. Thompson, of Mosman. Mosman girl
Maud Reynolds was the bridesmaid.
In spite of the sunshine which Lady
Wakehurst thinks encourages one to drop
pen and book and go out and enjoy the
beaches and gardens, her speech at the
luncheon given to her by the Women
Writers and her talk afterwards to vari-
ous members proved that she was not
only a reader of books but that she kept
in close touch with the work of the news-
paperwomen of the city. In her speech
Lady Wakehurst described herself as a
jack-of-all-trades and a master of none.
This was after she had confessed that her
secret ambition was to be a writer, but
that the nearest she had got to this was
being the wife of an author and the half-
sister of another—Margot, Countess of
Oxford and Asquith, a deep admiration
for whom has lasted since childhood.
Summer hats on parade could best de-
scribe those worn by members of the
society. Lady Wakehurst’s black hat was
small and boat-shaped, its only adorn-
ment two golden half-opened water-
lilies tucked in the front of the upturned
brim. Her frock of French-blue crepe
with its narrow binding of black satin
made one forget the sizzling sunshine
outside the door of the Carlton. Morna
Mackenzie wore crepes the color of ripe
corn. Dame Mary Gilmore, who wel-
comed the guest, and Mrs. Aronson, who
thanked her for coming, were the two
other speakers.
In Orange the big excitements of last
week were the Greek Ball given by the
Greek community for some of the local
welfare work, and the races. The course
is prettily situated. Just now it is very
green, it is circled by trees, and in the
blue distance the Conobolas looks over
its massive shoulder. Mrs. ,Leon Lyons
from Sydney, very smart in a sort of
French mustard-colored suit, was among
the racegoers. She had been staying at
Duntry League. So had the Archie
Rankens, who were there with their golf-
ing daughter. Myra and Sheila Dalton
came with father. Myra’s frock was a
night-sky-blue linen. Its clever pattern—
London by day and night—shows St.
Paul’s, the Tower Bridge, Piccadilly and
so on. The Percy Warrens and the
Garnet Hallorans were Sydneyites at
the races.
For her concert on Tuesday Guila
Bustabo wore maize tulle over taffeta.
This was sashed with narrow jade-green
velvet. The Town Hall was comfortably
filled and the dressing was a mixture
of day and evening clothes. Among
the pointed-outs of the night was Mrs.
Marshall Sumner, wife of the accom-
panist (this was her first concert since
her marriage). Under her summer
ermine coat was glimpsed a frock of
water-green floral taffeta. The T. H.
Kellys were there; so were Mrs. Muscio,
the Rupert Scammell couple and Helen
Thomson, whose white crepes were
flower-patterned. Dorothy Tremlett was
graceful in white lace. Mrs. Phillip
Rudder’s many-striped satin frock was
one of the successes of the night. She
was with her mother, Mrs. B. S. B.
Stevens, and sister Lorna. Lute Drum-
mond sat in the front row with Mrs.
Burley Griffin —she, by the way, leaves
at the end of the month for a visit to
her own country, the U.S.A. A.B.C.
Commissioner W. J. Cleary, Mrs. Cleary
and Joan were among those who went
around afterwards to congratulate the
young player.
Out and in again through the long
glass doors of the ballroom danced the
young things at Cranbrook on Friday. ,
Out on to the flagged verandah to get


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1652 of 1938.
B MARY BLACK Petitioner
And THOMAS BLACK Respondent.
TO THOMAS BLACK.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JOYCE MARY
iirTcHr»,i ia ii Co^ mence(J a Slllt a B ainst you in
this Honorable Court on the grounds of deser-
tion without any just cause or excuse for a
TAKF NDT?rp i e ? rs and u P wards AND
iAK.t, INUIICE that you arc required to enter
a PP eara n ce .l° the said suit at the proper
of this Honorable Court on or before
the Jhirty-hrst day of January One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the event
ot your not doing so in the limited time or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion tiled herein may be had on application to
the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this First day of November, 1938.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALLAN E. CUPIT, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1776 of 1938.
BETWEEN KIRSTINE FRELENGOS Peti-
tioner
And DEMETRIUS FRELENGOS Re-
spondent.
TO DEMETRIUS FRELENGOS late of Dar-
linghurst Sydney in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KIRSTINE
rRELENGOS has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of wilful desertion without just cause or excuse
lor a period of three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before the
Third day of February One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-nine and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of November, a.d.
1938.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
M. B. BYLES & CO., Solicitors for Peti-
tioner, 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1488 of 1938.
BETWEEN FRANK HATHAWAY SMITH
Petitioner
And HILDA MAY SMITH (formerly
Hilda May Johnson or Hilda May John-
ston also known as Hilda Nelson Johnson
or Hilda Nelson Johnston) Respondent.
TO HILDA MAY SMITH.
TAKE NOTICE that the said FRANK
HATHAWAY SMITH has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse; and take
notice that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of
this Honorable Court on or before the Eighth
day of February One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-nine and in the event of your not
doing so within the time allowed or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of November
1938.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. K. MANNING, Solicitor for the Petitioner
112 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILLIAM BAKER, Aylesbury, England. Last
heard of in Queensland about 1930. Will any-
one able to give information communicate with
D. BAKER, 250 Streatfield Road, Queens-
bury, Harrow, England?
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts or
able to supply any information concerning MISS
FLORENCE HENRIETTE BALE, who left
Sydney for England by the s.s Barrabool in
1934, please communicate with PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-39
Hunter Street, Sydney?
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
r What a wonderful
surprise!” i
she said
wmm
SBS
mm
s3sgg
mm
amt
m.
m
m
m
m
&V'S#A
1
tsm
“Just when I was
feeling dreadfully home*
sick , who should come
out of the blue but you!”
HE SAID
44 Enter the bad penny, at
just the right moment!
Let’s find a shel-
tered spot where
we can sit and
smoke.”
SHE SAID “dn Maurier as l|
always! You haven’t changed a hit
and I don’t blame you. There’ll never
be a cooler cigarette.” 2
64 You’re right. To my
mind du Maurier have the one
thing that improves the flavour of
good Virginia tobacco a perfect
filter tip! ”
HR
i
w'
mm
m
m
m
m
n
20 to. I '6
du MAURIER
THE EXCLUSIVE FILTER TIP CIGARETTES
Also obtainable : 10 for 9d., 50 for and 100 for j! 6
ISSUED BY THE MANUFACTURERS OF DU MAURIER CIGARETTES
G.C.35.
cool, back again into the ballroom when
the music proved irresistible. The night
was hot, but moon and stars shone out
over the harbor, a breeze blew up from
Manly and the buffet supper was an
informal outdoor affair. In the grounds
Chinese lanterns swayed, and red, white
and blue electrics (the school’s colors)
flashed a welcome from gate entrance
and doorway to the visitor. In the ball-
room were tall spikes of flowering peach.
Chief of the school, Major-General
Mackay, and Mrs. Mackay smiled a wel-
come on all. Her black crepes were
printed in red flowers. Mrs. M. F.
Bruxner wore silver lame. Mrs. Coup-
land Winn’s shell-pink chiffons were
sashed with burgundy velvet. Jessica
Chard wore three real water-lilies —lilac,
green and mauve—with her primrose
chiffons. Fairlie Anderson tied a cherry
ribbon round the waist of her sky-blue
organza. Evelyn Bowker’s period frock
was of forget-me-not-blue lace.
Crystal-clear, Gladys Verona’s voice
filled the Con. one night last week. For
the first half of the recital she wore a
net frock in fuschia tonings, its spread-
ing skirt banded in black lacquered satin.
For the second part she dressed in cos-
tume for scenes from “Traviata,” “The
Marriage of Figaro” and “The Daughter
of the Regiment.” In these she was
assisted by Alfred Willmore and Fraser
Coss. Charles Philip was the pianist,
and Frederick Hyde the accompanist.
In the audience were Marshall Sumner
and his young wife. They came with
Latvian Consul Norman Macleod and
Mrs. Macleod, with whom they had
dined. Mrs. Macleod wore black satin,
Mrs. Sumner a pink-and-white-candy-
striped sheer. Mrs. Florence Taylor
hostessed a large party, which she after-
wards entertained to supper. Mrs.
Charles Philip was there ; so were Pro-
fessor and Mrs. Sauer, the Greek Consul,
Dr. Kocatakis, and Mr. and Mrs. Claude
Plowman.
Queenslander Jean Rigby (Mrs. W. M.
Shaw) wore coral-red chiffons for her
recital at the Australia. The frock, which
was full and long, had gold scrollings at
neckline and waist. Jean’s accompanist,
Yvonne Deschamps (Mrs. H. H. Palmer),
sported green taffetas the same shade as
the singer’s gloves. The frock, with its
Victorian off-the-shoulder neckline, had
tiny frills on skirt and bodice. Pianist
John Douglas Todd (he looked nearly
seven feet high) was the assisting artist.
As good husbands should, both Mr.
Shaw and Commander Palmer stood by.
The hostesses of the evening were mem-
bers of the women’s committee of the
N.S.W. Musical Association, among
them the president, Mrs. Hope Gibson,
and the hon. sec., Mrs. Harold Bott.
Others in the audience were Mrs. John
Holmes, Mrs. Vern Barnett, Mrs. W.
Arlom, Mrs. Charles Moses and Dr. and
Mrs. Robert Paterson.
Three cheers for Joe Moxon, organ-
iser of the Child Welfare Exhibition
held in the basement of the Town Hall
last week. Not once did he lose his
temper, not even when he found that the
date of his concert (Salvation Band and
C. of E. boys’ choir) and that of Guila
Bustabo’s clashed. He just arranged for
a series of Morse-like signals from above,
and when Guila went off his show went
on.
The exhibition, which was opened by
Minister for Health FitzSimons, was a
demonstration of what the different social
organisations are doing to make the
children under their care healthy in mind
and body. The exhibits, made by the
children, ranged from the homely pickle
and jam to the, most exquisite lace
trousseaux. The only exception to the
“For Exhibition Only” was the Crippled
Children’s stall. Here could be bought
the most delicate hand-made flowers and
articles made of leather and wood, all
very suitable for Christmas gifts. Every
afternoon, too, there were demonstra-
tions by the children in dancing, rhyming,
miming, playacting and singing.
Lady Wakehurst dropped in informally
one afternoon for a look and a cup of
tea. The hockey girls who were running
the tea department were in a dilemma.
Easy enough to burnish up the tea-tables
—but there wasn’t a teapot in sight, and
no time to secure one. Consulted that
magician of the Town Hall Joe Ander-
son. Ten minutes later Mrs. Davy and
her girls were smilingly welcoming their
guest to a tea table fit for the first lady
of the State. Joe had dashed upstairs and
commandeered his wife’s best silver tea-
pot, sugar basin, etc.


High Blood
Pressure...
THE TRUTH AT LAST
High Blood Pressure, giddiness,
pounding and trembling are now
being successfully treated in a new
way that is safe, natural and scien-
tific. Specialists have now traced the
cause of Hyperteusion (High Blood
Pressure) to self-poisoning, i.e., a
elogged colon. As a result of inac-
tivity of the colon (large intestine)
fragments of food waste encrust on
the colon walls and there putrefy.
Virulent poisons, acids and lime salts
that should be evacuated seep into
the blood stream. Normal “alkaline
reserve” is overthrown and the
arteries undergo a fibrous change due
to deposits of lime salts and blood
impurities. They lose their elasticity,
become rigid and narrowed in
channel. The same amount of blood
has then to be “forced” through the
narrowed arteries. This places extra
effort on the heart which results in
the many alarming symptoms ex-
perienced by blood pressure sufferers
—such as headaches, shortness of
breath, giddiness, hot flushes, heart
pains, ear-ringing, trembling, un-
steadiness when walking, exhaustion
and pufliness.
To relieve high blood pressure you must re-
move the encrustations on the colon.
Normal bowl movements cannot do this—
the walls of the colon become inactive.
Opening medicines only purge the lower
end of the colon. Drink warm water and
‘Coloseptic’ every morning. This simple
plan cleanses the colon, tones up the walls,
giving them back their power of norma!
movement. ‘Coloseptic’ alkalinises the blood
and helps dissolve the lime salts and blood
impurities from the arterial waits. The
arteries then bcome soft and flexible per-
mitting the blood to circulate without in-
creased heart effort. ‘Coloseptic’ further
stimulates the action of the kidneys, skin
pores and lungs — vital organs which
eliminate poisons from your system. Get
‘Coloseptic’ from your chemist to-day.
Individual size, 2/9; Economy size, 5/6.
PBBB SAMPLE
Send 3d. stamps for postage; a liberal Free
Trial Sample and interesting, intimate book
will be sent you. COLOSEPTIC (AUST.)
LTD., 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Sales of Flanders poppies on Armistice
Day and the day before exceeded expec-
tations. The times seem to have
brought people down to realities; they
felt it their duty to buy a poppy, and
they bought one from the first box-
holder who approached them on their
way to the day’s work. Replenishments
ran out, and on Friday several busy inter-
sections were without flower-sellers from
early afternoon onwards. In the suburbs
and country poppies also sold by the
thousands, and schools helped consider-
ably, the children parting with their pre-
cious ice-cream pennies with the gener-
osity of the young. There was neither
wind nor rain to mar the service at the
Shrine, which commenced at 10.30, when
the Air Force guard of honor and band
took up positions at the south steps. At
eleven, warning sirens heralded a two
minutes’ silence, and the world of com-
merce and industry was stilled for brief
meditation.
When Mrs. John Buchan gave a cock-
tail party last week the warmth of a
summer evening made the balcony of her
flat at Stonehaven Court a popular spot
tp which guests carried short drinks, long
cold drinks and later on hot coffee. As
dusk descended the lights were turned on,
those in the dining-room shining from
grouped brackets of stags’ antlers, which
unique pieces of workmanship were pro-
cured many years ago by Mr. Buchan in
Germany. Other unusual possessions
which give Mrs. Buchan’s flat the air of
a collector’s home are some interesting
vases, a grandfather clock and another
tall Swiss clock mounted in an elaborately
carved wooden pedestal.
Among guests at the party were the
Ronald Buchan and the Graham Tucker
couples and Lieut, and Mrs. Guy Ashley-
Brown (she in white muslin pin-spotted
in blue and a wide-brimmed white hat).
Others in sunny-day millinery included
Mrs. Gordon Blanch (her hat as red as
the cherries that have just come into
season) and Mrs. John Cox (hers white
and accompanying a “shy”-blue frock).
She is down from her country home near
Ararat on a flying visit; the newest addi-
tion to the family is only a month old
and much too important to leave for
longer than necessary. Among the small-
hatted people were Mrs. Charlie Alsop.
Her piece of millinery was of folded
white petersham with a black veil to
match her frock. The “mediums” in-
cluded Marjorie Strong, who was all in
sky-blue, with her hat a blue sailor, and
Mrs. “By” Gowan, who also had inclina-
tions towards the sailor family in the
white top-piece for her black frock.
BaJJet audiences keep up, and houses,
which diminished slightly near race-time,
are up again, though the long season is
drawing towards its last nights. To one
programme last week Lady Huntingfield
and Mrs. Helme Pott came along un-
aided and a deux to manipulate opera-
glasses from the front row of the circle.
The same evening Mrs. Stuart Brunton,
elegant in a long black taffeta coat with
her lovely white hair arranged in a row
of soft curls, had her heart warmed by
a number of “Welcome homes” in the
foyer. Dr. Esme Anderson also looked
well in a black ensemble, gown and little
bolero of lace with elm leaves twined
into the pattern and a pink rose upon
the shoulder. Basil Buller Murphy was
there, doing the honors for one of his
stepdaughters, Mrs. Mac Knox. Mrs.
Herbert Lillies, the Bradford and the
Hornabrook twins and the Lem Calla-
ways were among others who enjoyed
the programme.
A very young couple (the bride is only
19) married yesterday (15th) were Peggy
Johnson and Larry Watkins. It was an
all-white wedding. Peggy’s frock of
organza had a rustling double skirt and
sleeves like butterflies. Little petersham
bows were scattered upon the long full
skirts of the four ’maids’ white moire
frocks. The four all gave parties for the
leading lady. For hers, Greta Harrison
mixed cocktails and kitchens, and every-
body brought presents varying in size
from salt- and pepper-shakers to a luxury
labor-saving device, a laundry basket on
wheels with peg-basket attached, a gift
from Larry’s mother, Mrs. F. Watkins.
Margaret Cock made her party a pantry
tea, and Lorraine Kimberley and Noel
Gambetta kept cocktail glasses filled
while the guests of honor unwrapped
parcels of leisure for winter evenings—•
books and yet more books to fill the
shelves already furnishing the rooms of
their home in Brighton. The bride’s
photograph from Athol Shmith.
The Temple of the Winds in the
Botanic Gardens has a counterpart in
the decor used for last week’s new ballet,
“Papillons.” The Greek temple in the
background is part of a moonlit wood-
land scene in which the ballet dances in
white and gold frocks with wired skirts,
many frills and butterfly wings snipped
off later for coy little shawls and capes
to protect maidenly shoulders while being
escorted home from the carnival ball.
Conductor Antal Dorati was in the
foyer before taking up his baton for the
“Midsummer Night’s Dream” overture.
Madame Dorati had a whole branch of
rhododendrons upon the shoulder of her
cyclamen coat. Mrs. Douglas Carnegie’s
jewel-green cloak, which she wore over
a black frock scattered with pinky
flowers, made a vivid dash of color in
the circle. A Hobart visitor, Mrs. K.
Brent, accompanied Mrs. W. R. Burston.
Mrs. Fred Gamble’s mist-grey frock and
cyclamen sash were covered with a
Jacob’s coat of many colors in blistered
crepe. Joan Ramsay wore a black velvet
wrap and lily-of-the-valley. Win Moran,
also in black velvet, had sable furs slung
over her shoulders. Dr. and Mrs. Mick
Healy were there; also the Hubert
Jacobys and Mrs. G. P. Potter in a fur
cape. Valerie Purves exchanged her
apple-green hair ribbon bows of a night
at the Ballet earlier in the week for a
butterfly of moonlit sequins.
When members of the Hunter family
foregather there is usually some talk of
horses and races. Mrs. Robert Hunter
likes the races and knows a good horse
when she sees one. One of her daugh-
ters is Mrs. Harold Bartram, who with
her daughter Mary has won more eques-
trian prizes than she has room for in her
home. Son Alec, of North Wood Park,
Seymour, is the owner of Ena. It was
natural, therefore, that the conversation
at Mrs. Robert Hunter’s tea-party last
week touched now and again upon every-
body’s luck at the Cup. The party was
at the Windsor, now Mrs. Hunter’s per-
manent address, and was given in honor
of her daughter, Mrs. J. S. Dane, and her
daughter Paula, on a visit to Australia.
This trip Pat and Primrose stayed behind
in the family’s tall home, which climbs
upwards and not outwards, storey by
storey, as do so many London houses.
Mrs. Dane’s friends found her looking
as well as ever after several years’
absence, and they also approved of her
cyclamen gown worn with a black sheer
coat and a black Tonkinese hat in full
feather upon its crown. Paula might have
stepped out of a Paris shop in her blue-
wren suit with a couple of crossed wings
stretching upwards from her black jockey
cap. There were also exclamations of
admiration about the roses on the tea
tables and the rhododendrons around the
room fresh from the mountain air ; they
came from Mrs. Alec Goldie’s Woodend
garden. Mrs. Dane and Paula will stay
with Mrs. Goldie (she’s a sister of Mrs.
Dane) for a while before settling down
in Melbourne Mansions until January,
when they are off overseas once more.
Brides who don’t change their initials
with marriage are lucky in the matter
of monograms, book-plates, etc., but Noel
Lane hasn’t even to learn a new signa-
ture —if she writes the old one in an
absentminded moment all will be well.
Last week in All Saints’, East St. Kilda,
she married Charlie Lane, whose family
tree is not even distantly related among
its roots to her own. The bride, whose
photograph comes from Athol Shmith,
is the elder daughter of the Robert T.
Lanes, and the ’groom is the eldest son
of the Charles J. Lanes, of Ardoch.
The home-to-be is a flat in Dandenong-
road.
The Lambeth Walk, speeches and
champagne were part of the reception at
No. 9 following on the wedding of Lane
to Larie. The Rev. “Plum” Warner, who
married the couple, was also master of
ceremonies; he’s an old friend of the
family and at one time was one of the
staff in Robert Lane’s firm. On his lively
speech he was congratulated with songs
in and out of tune. Another of the even-
ing’s speech-makers was Jack Strong, who
used to be noted for his fast play in the
football field, and who made equally fast
work of wisecracks while proposing the
health of the bride’s parents.
The bride’s going-away color fantasy
was an evening gown of petunia
crepe and a coat of green slipper
satin. ’Maids Helen Lane (bride’s
sister) and Sheila Lane (’groom’s
sister) wore frocks of pink marquisette
over taffeta. Noticed among the guests
was Mrs. Duncan Fraser Smith, a nest of
robins in her hair, but they were cycla-
men robins, having changed their plu-
mage to suit the prevailing fashion.
Athalie Cuming went away from flowers
with the beaded bow which ornamented
the corsage of her misty-blue satin gown.
Everybody wore Flanders poppies on
the first afternoon of John Rowell’s ex-
hibition of pictures in the Athenaeum,
declared open by Mrs. J. D. G. Medley.
Mrs. Medley arrived early and had the
beauty spots upon the walls pointed out
to her by Mr. Rowell. Her address was
short and well spoken; she has the kind
of voice that carries easily. She didn’t
talk about art, but expressed approval
at Australian artists going abroad when
possible and bringing back to their
country fresh ideas and impressions to
transpose into a national art. Included
in the exhibition were glimpses of Corn-
wall and of Nuremberg, and the Corona-
tion picture painted by Mr. Rowell from
sketches he made in the Abbey during
the ceremony.
Among visitors who were more inter-
ested on the whole in the Australian pic-
tures than those painted overseas were
Mrs. J. R. Roddick and her daughter,
Mrs. lan Connell, who arrived from Eng-
land last September. Mrs. Roddick wore
black with a dash of royal-blue upon her
hat, and Mrs. Connell, who is tall and
slim, looked well in a flat black hat worn
with a black edge-to-edge coat over a
figured frock. An amount of interest
was caused by Mary Patterson’s coat in
grey Manchurian ponyskin, which she
bought in Vienna. It has sway back,
square shoulders and a very smart touch
of black upon collar and pipings for
pockets.
Another visitor with a penchant
for grey was Mrs. C. R. Duncan.
A grey veil to match her tailored suit
was wrapped around and about her black
hat. Mrs. Medley’s coat and hat played
an interesting color duet in powder-blue
and cyclamen respectively. Mrs. Rowell
had a whole palette of colors in the pat-
terning of her frock, made with raglan
shoulders and a halter neck effect with a
high collar made from rows of cord. The
exigencies of a psychology exam, pre-
vented daughter Joan, who is now 18,
from being present. Those who were at
the opening were invited to remain for
a buffet tea party served in the gallery.
Wilbur Reed and Bill Staughton are
still carrying upon their anatomies some
bruises from “Two White Arms.” Marie
Balfour, owner of the arms, as Alison
Liston, wasn’t responsible for the war
wounds. Wilbur and Bill as respectively
Cary Liston and “Mac,” a mechanic, had
a nightly dust-up on the stage during
the Gregan McMahon season, and the
former in addition got one on the chin
from Marie Rendle as a little “bit,” name
of Trixie. Gwen Izzard, who played a
widow with tactics, is rejoicing in a
compliment unwittingly paid to her by
some strangers in the audience who one
night happened to be sitting behind her
father. Conversation about his daugh-
ter (as herself, not the widow) which
penetrated father’s surprised ears was
that “She knows a millionaire and she’s
bled him of every penny.” Miss Izzard
says she only wishes it were true.
Cosmopolitan audiences are visiting
“The Cherry Orchard” during its seven
nights season ; the intelligentsia, the dilet-
tanti, the Bolsheviki, the pink socialists
and the plain average people with open
minds about Chekhov. The Russians
call “The Cherry Orchard” a comedy,
which goes to show that everything is
relative. It contains no murders, and the
only death is a quiet slipping away with
the final curtain of faithful old footman
Firce, forgotten in the deserted house
(on that note the audience goes home ;
there are no bows, flowers or speeches
to ruin the world of fantasy). Varya
doesn’t get the man she wants ; he always
forgets to propose. Madame Ranevskaya
loses the orchard through her improvi-
dence, and will lose everything else she
ever receives for the same reason. Except
for a few isolated cases of restlessness at
the Russian mode of verbosity and get-
ting nowhere, the first-night audience
received the play with interest and con-
centration, all a compliment to Dolia
Ribush, who must be the most thorough
producer in this country.
For eight months the cast studied
Chekhov, his work and his characters ;
for a further seven months they re-
hearsed, on recent Sundays and public
holidays from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m., the result
being an extraordinarily clever inter-
pretation of a difficult play, the players
being so steeped in their roles that they
lived rather than acted them. Scenery
and costumes (of 1904) were designed by
Florence and Kathleen Martin. Particu-
larly appealing for its depth of color and
perspective was the backcloth used in the
pastoral second act, in the foreground of
which there were a lawn of real green
grass and trees growing from hidden
pots. No detail is too small for Mr.
Ribush. For instance, the orchestra heard
out-of-doors but far away in the distance
is prescribed as “Two violins, a flute and
a double bass,” and that’s what it consists
of. Rolls of prop, money are not stage
pounds, but stage roubles.
In the first-night audience was Mrs.
Dolia Ribush, wearing petunia crepe and
a trellis of pink roses upon her shoulder.
She shared a box with Mrs. Harvey Wil-
kinson, Arnold Haskell and Vladimir
Launitz, who crossed the street from His
Majesty’s during the ballets for which he
wasn’t required as assistant conductor.
Mrs. Eric Booth, whose husband played
the part of Uncle Leonid, wore a Chinese
coat of fingertip length. Mrs. Stanley
Dobson swathed herself in blue velvet,
and Mrs. Bryan Page had two sunflower-
sized daisies upon the shoulder of her
chiffon frock. Mrs. Frank Andrew was
there ; also the Russell Grimwade couple,
Mrs. F. D. Brockhoff and her son Jack,
Keith Allen wearing a cream duveton
mess jacket, Mrs. Miles Cox and Mrs.
Guy Bakewell, spending the evening in
lilac, her frock of a pastel satin and
gloves verging on a deeper violet.


mmmm
r^uns
£$ A'a~
VS,
021
*4
\t
38—1
X
Z 3
ame
is
U/CalLum’s
VA
CHJiisl
e
m
zyjs
_ , , w Distributors for the House oj McCuuum:
MelboSie “d ' SydneJ '' Uo “‘ S * , ““ * ' Frem “ U
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobart
-nr '’TS'S-SI
•v. ; - ••••••
MAPPING OUT
A TRAVEL ITINERARY
When mapping out an itinerary for a trip overseas,
it is equally important to make certain that you
can obtain money at ports of call and on ship-
board. The safest and most convenient method of
so doing is to obtain Travellers’ Cheques and a
Letter of Credit. For small amounts, Travellers’
Cheques are recommended. These are issued in
denominations of £2, £5, and £lO. For larger
amounts, a Letter of Credit should be obtained.
Full information and advice will be gladly given
at the Bank’s Branches and its Overseas Agencies.
THE NATIONAL BANK
oj Australasia TAuiitcd (Incorporated in Victoria)
53/12/38
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Wings Over Darwin
Two of the R.A.F. Vickers-Wellesley
bombers which left Ismailia (Egypt) at
1.55 p.m. on Saturday, November 5,
landed at Fannie Bay aerodrome,
Darwin, at 2.2 and 2.5 p.m. respec-
tively on the following Monday.
They had flown 7162 miles in just over
48 hours, cutting the Russian long-
distance “record” (“Aeroplane” doubts
that it ever was a record) by 856 miles.
Landing at Koepang through petrol
shortage, the third ’plane still managed
to break the record by 300 miles, and
hold it for three hours ; it reached Dar-
win at 5.36 p.m.
Darwin turned out to welcome, and
even laconic Territorians managed an
occasional cheer as the camouflaged
green-and-brown ’planes broke through a
cloudy horizon, circled the ’drome and
made a good landing.
They had run into a storm over the
Bay of Bengal, but otherwise made a
fairly comfortable passage. Their crews
were mostly small men, casual but
thorough; orders made them reticent.
After the quarantine doctor had finished
with them they spent their first half-hour
in Darwin attending to their ’planes and
ensuring that sealed records of the flight
would be dispatched to London for
official recognition. They snoozed in the
afternoon, surrounded a cocktail or two
on board the French sloop Rigault de
Genouilly, and attended a dance in the
evening.
Administrator Abbott accommodated a
squadron-leader and a flight-lieutenant at
Government Ffouse.; the rest of the crew
moved into staff quarters at the garrison.
All had a good word to say for Darwin,
and Darwin returned the compliment.
“Qwert Yuiop”: Queensland is preen-
ing itself on having passed the million
mark on June 30. According to cold
statistical figures, a large seasonal tourist
influx was really responsible, and the
genuine residential millionth citizen did
not arrive until the end of July at earliest.
To such carping critics, Bananaland
replies that its natural increase of 10,000
yearly compares more than favorably
with that of any other State, and that it
also attracts more permanent immigrants.
The population of coastal tropical
Queensland has, during the last two
censal periods, grown much faster than
that of any other major section of Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
“Boong”: White Russian peanut
farmers on the banks of the Katherine
River near Katherine (N.T.) are having
a rough spin. Refugees from the revo-
lution, they retain some of their old ways
-—meet one and, shaking your hand, he
clicks to attention and bows slightly;
some of them can’t speak English. Even
in good times they are up against the
en/bargo on imported nuts, since they find
S’African seed essential. Now peanuts
are below 4d. per pound, and the growers
find it more profitable to leave their
farms and go north after clearing con-
“All We need now is a coupla gas-masks, Ma, and We're set."
tracts and anything else that offers a
living. These settlers are industrious
workers and have hung on to their hold-
ings long after others have thrown in
the towel; if ever there is a market for
vegetables in the N.T. they should make
a good job of irrigating their land and
producing the goods.
* * * *
“Dorret”: “Dungeness,” who ap-
plauds my bringing the Devil’s Marbles
to notice (B. 26/10/’3B), will agree that
another N.T. curiosity meriting publicity
is the “magnetic” anthills. Your ordinary
anthill palls after a while, but the small
red chaps on the Barklys are fascinating.
They occur in groups of thousands, 3ft.
or 4ft. tall, and so closely packed that it
would be almost impossible to drive a car
through them. An old-timer gave them
a pleasantly apt description, “black-
fellows’ cemeteries.” Beating north along
the O.T. line you strike them orange, and
slightly larger; towards Brock’s Creek,
and further north, are the light-brown
20ft. giants, some of which show a slight
tendency to point due north and south.
Then, about 12 miles from Darwin, are
the “magnetics.” There must be over
100 of them on a small treeless area:
they are battleship-grey, about 2ft. thick,
Bft. long and 12ft.-15ft. high. They are
wedge-shaped, and have serrated tops
something like a cockerel’s comb ; and
every one of them points due north and
south. I’ve heard only two explanations
—that the ants build them to expose as
little face as possible to the northerly
winds and rains, and to expose as much
face as possible to the sun as it passes
from east to west.
“Qwert Yuiop”: Brisbane’s Tree of
Knowledge, which for three-quarters of
a century has cast its cool mantle of
shade over the triangular plot where
Creek and Eagle streets meet, is an Indian
banyan. Two dinkum Aussie Cunning-
ham figs flank it, but they are small fry
beside its great gnarled trunk and wide
crown of glossy green which lasts the
year through. It is the only tree in
Queensland perhaps in Australia—
which has its own telephone number.
Its wide-arching span forms the assem-
bly-place of Brisbane’s vandrivers, and
a callbox is attached to the massive bole
for their collective use. Address a letter
to Bill Jones, Vanman, The Tree, Bris-
bane, and if there is a Bill Jones among
them he will get it as certainly as if you
addressed it to his house. And, if you
mention the Tree to any true Brisban-
ite, that is the tree of which he will think.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Few spring seasons pass
without some country youngsters in S.Q.
having to be rushed to hospital with
“shivery grass” seeds stuck in mouth or
throat. The things are admirably de-
signed for their purpose of being trans-
ported in the skin coverings or insides
of animals or birds in order to reach new
ground, but they certainly do not agree
with the human young when following
its natural tendency to taste any interest-
ing object. An 18-month Warwick
youngster tried grazing on a “shivery
grass” tuft; four seeds lodged in his
throat, and it needed quite a trouble-
some fishing job to get rid of them after
he had been rushed to hospital, blue-
faced and whooping. A few days later
a nine-month infant tried a similar
change of diet and got a seed stuck well
and truly under its tongue.
“Tired Tim”: The Brisbane River has
more U bends, bears more merchandise
down to the sea in ships and took more
finding than any other Australian stream.
Both Captain Cook and the meticulous
Matthew Flinders failed to discover it,
although the former knew by the dis-
colored waters of Moreton Bay that it
was there. Lieutenant Oxley, in search of
it, had first to find an escaped convict at
large in a continent to show him where to
look. A later discoverer was Tom
Clarke, of “Marriage at 6 a.m.,” who
extolled the panorama of the city and
the river, as viewed from One Tree Hill
—a name which, as you might expect, wc
have changed to the hyphenated Mt.
Coot-tha.


*OR Tfi #
(EMPIRES MILLIONS
YOUR MONEY
That’s why 6A>I has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
State —so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
St. George’s House,
St. George’s Terrace,
Perth,
Western Australia.
GO
UIUI
ao
3<
jS
S*
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands ana .
nerves function well you will be vigorous anti!
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure_remed\
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or write
direct for 'particulars of this MODERN
TREATMENT.
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
"RADIO DIGEST”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of '‘RADIO’’ (U.S.A. ).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but “RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most important radio
publications.
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
from the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
56mc. Super-Gainer.
Further Details.
This ultra-short-wave superhet, out-
lined in B. 29/6 / ’3B, has since been put
through its paces by the writer, and a
few tips on construction should be of
value.
The circuit diagram, with all resistor
and capacity values, is again reproduced
as a guide. Although the 6H6 twin
diode is used as a noise-limiter across
the audio output, this is not absolutely
essential, unless the receiver is in a par-
ticularly bad location for interference
from motor-car ignition. Fundamentally,
this is a three-valve superhet, but, despite
this apparent paucity of valves, it gives
the precise results that Jones claimed in
his original description in “Radio”
(U.S.A.).
There are two important features
which need watching: the intermediate-
Figure 1.
frequency channel is provided by high-
gain iron-cored I.F.Ts. at 1600 kc., and
the high-C oscillator section is used with
a low-C detector. If an attempt is made
to use anything but a very small tuning
capacity in the detector portion of the
6JBG mixer, results will be indifferent,
with lack of the
essential sensitivity.
Although a sensi-
tive I.F. amplifier
is provided with
the special I.F.Ts.
now available, the
mixer plays an
equally important
part in the overall
gain. Hence the
necessity for track-
ing the high-C and
low-C tuning cir-
cuits. This is by
no means difficult,
as the receiver is
designed to cover
only 56mc. to
60mc.
Figure 2 shows
the receiver from
the oscillator-
mixer end, the
oscillator section
being nearest to
the front panel. The coil for the
oscillator consists of four turns of
14-gauge copper wire, |in. inside
diameter and spaced to take up fin. This
is tuned by a Raymart 15mmfd. variable
condenser. Normally this low-C ratio
would fall short of 56mc., so, in order
to cover the band with this small coil
and to provide high-C tuning, a 50mmfd.
midget variable condenser is used as a
padder or “band-setter” in shunt with the
coil and 15mmfd. tuning condenser. This
padder can be seen mounted vertically
alongside the oscillator coil in Figure 2.
Once the padder is set for the band
it must be locked in position, and the
shaft can be fixed by running sealing-
wax or Chatterton’s compound around
the spindle where it enters the bearing.
Because of the high frequency, it would
hardly be possible to set this padder
condenser accurately by knob-control,
owing to hand-capacity. The condenser
spindle is therefore cut short and slotted
with a metal saw for bakelite screwdriver
operation. As with the tuning con-
densers, good insulation must be used in
the padder condenser. There are several
older types of 50mmfd. midgets which
can be suitably revamped by using
WT/22 insulation material ; they are
likely to be stiff in action, an advantage
in this case.
Ganged with the oscillator-tuning con-
denser, and with its coil on the other
side of the small vertical screening parti-
Figure 2. — End-on view of the completed 56mc. Super-
Gainer superhet, showing the tuning assembly.
tion, is the detector-tuning condenser,
which is also a Raymart of originally
15mmfd. capacity. This condenser is
doctored to provide a spacing of 3-16 in.
rotor and stator, the capacity
then being in the vicinity of 7mmfd. The
grid coil is of 14-gauge copper with seven
turns of iin. inside diameter, with turns
spaced a little more than the diameter
of the wire. Although on paper it may
appear impossible to get detector and
oscillator circuits to track with such
widely different constants, this is not so.
The aerial is coupled through a
3-30mmfd. trimmer condenser, and in
Figure 3. The new 1600kc. I.F.Ts.
made by Tasma Radio. These are now
available to experimenters.
practice it is found that variation of this
small capacity in series with the aerial
has quite a bearing on the tracking.
To ensure that the receiver is cover-
ing the band, switch on the crystal oscil-
lator of a 40-metre or 20-metre trans-
mitter near by, and use the harmonic,
which should be readily picked up in the
receiver. The harmonic will be heard
strongly at two points, differing by the
intermediate frequency. In the case of
the receiver illustrated the circuits were
found to track better by using the lower-
frequency harmonic. A calibrated ab-
sorption meter can be used as a rough
guide to the band in proximity to the
oscillator coil.
I.F. Transformers.
The 1600 kc. I.F.Ts. were made
specially by Tasma Radio, and are par-
ticularly well designed. Trolitul low-loss
R n —soo,ooo ohms, >/ 2 wot*
Rio —50,000 ohms, i/ 2 watt
Rjx—2o,ooo ohms, l/ 2 watt
R 12 —50,000 ohms, l/ 2 watt
Ris —25,000 ohms, V 2 watt
Rm —50-ohm c.t. resistor
IFTj, 2 —Midget 1600-ke.
iron-core i.f. trans-
former
Lj, L2 —See text
Ld —40 turns, l/ 2 " dia., no.
28 d.s.c. jumble wound
material is used for the assembly and
the cols are wound with Litz wire on a
new type of iron core. Only a small
shunt capacity is used, and the windings
are peaked at the frequency by the vari-
able permeability screws, which are
reached through the holes in the shield
can. Remarkably high gain is obtained
with these I.F.Ts., and since the first
pair was obtained for experimental work
on this receiver Tasma has made them
available to experimenters at a very
reasonable price per pair.
Such I.F.Ts. open up a new field, not
only in the construction of ultra-short-
wave superhets, but in superhets for
general short-wave reception. Main
advantage is the freedom from image
interference in comparison with 460 kc.
Similar I.F.Ts. have since been produced
by Radiokes.
Although these 1600 kc I.F.Ts. are
lined up accurately in the factory, it must
be realised that there will be a difference
in the peaking when they are wired into a
receiver. This is because of the effect
of wiring and valve capacities at the
higher frequency. They will, however,
be near enough to obtain some kind of
a signal from a modulated oscillator, and
if any signal is heard at all with the
receiver they can easily be lined up.
Where there is a somewhat noisy recep-
tion background, the I.F. channel can be
lined up on the background noise quite
easily. First thing to do after complet-
ing the receiver to the details given in
B. 29/6/’3B is to get the I.F. channel
“on the nose.”
BFO and Noise-limiter.
The noise-limiter described by Jones
is very effective, but it must be under-
stood that this is not essential to the
performance of the receiver. Were
there is little or no interference from
electrical circuits or car ignition, the
noise-silencer can be omitted. In any
case, it is found that this form of
limiter definitely cuts down on the audio
gain, but this would be immaterial it an
extra audio stage is incorporated tor
speaker reception. Without the limiter,
local 56mc. signals are so strong that
a permag. speaker can be operated com-
fortably straight from the output of the
6A6 second detector-audio.
No trouble should be experienced with
the regeneration in the second detector
portion, provided that the I.F. amplifier
is correctly peaked. Regeneration here
is very important, as it contributes
materially to the overall sensitivity of the
receiver.
A 1000-ohm potentiometer is specified
across the cathode coil, but this can be
any value from 400 to 2500 ohms.
Advancing this potentiometer should put
the second detector into oscillation for
c.w. reception just as smoothly as with
any conventional oscillating detector.
Unless this control is smooth, the per-
formance of the receiver will suffer.
With the detector oscillating for c.w.
the advantages of the high-C oscillator
are at once apparent. Crystal-controlled
Figure 4. —Front view of the 56mc.
superhet. The two knobs are for I.F.
gain and second detector regeneration.
stations show a T 9 carrier of rock-steady
nature fully comparable with lower fre-
quencies.
Figure 4 shows the front of the
receiver, and it will be obvious that a
tuning dial completely free from back-
lash or slip must be employed. In-
different dials can be used with super-
regenerators owing to the broad fre-
quency characteristics, but not with a
receiver of this kind. As may be seen
in Figure 2, the dial is insulated from
the tuning gang by a length of erinoid
rod. This is good practice with any
short- or ultra-short-wave receiver, as
noises from metal dial mechanisms can
be eliminated. The 6JBG mixer-oscillator
valve is mounted on a Raymart ceramic
octal socket on stand-off pillars
above the chassis. By this means, wiring
can be kept very short and rigid.
It is planned in the near future to
build another version of this receiver
employing an R.F. stage with an 1851 or
1852 valve, plus extra audio for loud-
speaker operation. Such a receiver
should represent the last word in modern
56m.c. receiver practice.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
Writer has recently had the oppor-
tunity for testing a Hallicrafter Ultra-
Skyrider, a receiver representative of
the best American practice. It is de-
signed to cover wave-lengths between
3.5 metres and 53 metres, with electric
bandspread over the complete range. The
dial is a large-diameter, engraved-metal
affair, calibrated directly in megacycles.
On five metres stations normally difficult
to hear on a good super-regenerator
were audible at full speaker volume.
Receiving aerial for this test was a ver-
tical 33ft. wire with series tuning, and
the receiving position at sea level with
bad screening. I.F. channel, as with all


0
1*
\
P 0 A 4
f 4 l
wfif! ft
Iff Iff
o . /.
fi 's f
F>
*a.6
0 o
f, t'
U
m A .
•IffA.
A.
I
?
Radiotron valves are supplied in factory-sealed
cartons—your guarantee that the valve you buy is
new. The carton must be destroyed to remove the
original valve.
For better and brighter radio entertainment . . .
D tninipimHO
n lav) NE W MICRO-SENSITIVE (7 Ml m
HflU 1u Inu ll u
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.)
EimericK
Competitions
For Each of These Competitions £5O in Prize-money
Seventh Competition:—
£5O PRIZES
First Prize £2O
Second Prize £lO
Twenty Other Prizes £1
Closing Date November 23.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space provided for the
purpose, cut out the whole coupon, and post to reach
"Limericks No. 7,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than November 23.
Results of this Seventh Limerick Competition will be
announced in “The Bulletin” of November 30.
Any competitor may send in as many entries as he or she
wishes for this or succeeding competitions, but each entry
must be filled in on a Limerick Coupon,
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
is eligible to compete. Otherwise these competitions are open
to all, free of any entrance charge.
SEVENTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
/ have heard politicians protest
That the good of the State is their quest.
So when holding such views
They raise their own screws
Eighth Competition
£5O PRIZES
First Prize £2O
Second Prize £lO
Twenty Other Prizes £1
Closing Date December 7.
Prize-money for the Eighth Limerick Competition is the same
as for the Seventh: First Prize £2O; Second Prize £10; and
20 £1 prizes.
It will close on December 7 and results will be announced
in “The Bulletin” of December 14.
This announcement will be repeated in “The Bulletin” of
November 23 and November 30, and coupons may be filled in
from those issues or from the present one.
For the Eighth Competition, add a last line to the Limerick
in the coupon below, cut out the whole coupon and post to
reach
“Limericks No. 8 y ” Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than December 7.
EIGHTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
A cricketer fielding at Cue
Was the worst at a catch that 1 knew ,
For when offered a “ sitter ”
He'd nervously titter
The Sixth Limerick Competition Results are announced on Page 35.
modem American communications re-
ceivers, is 1600 kc., with crystal filter.
Visiting Sydney at the week-end was
Joe Kilgariff, of Adelaide (VKSJT). He
handles the Hallicrafter line of receivers
in Australia, and, despite the relatively
high price by the time duty and freight
are added, finds it difficult to fill orders.
Several of the A.A.M.S. stations are now
equipped with Super-Skyriders.
That summer is here is evident by the
preponderance of static on all bands;
QRN is strong even on five metres. On
20 metres DX is patchy prior to reversal
of conditions in accordance with sun-
spot activity relative to the 11-year cycle.
The time is fast approaching when
elaborate rotary beams and the like will
be of little avail. Stations so equipped
may get through for longer periods, but
when the band folds up conditions will
be impossible. The average amateur,
therefore, should be content with a
general purpose multi-directional radiat-
ing and receiving system. Rotaries will
be no more than ornaments for the next
six years or so.
Those who have found the single-wire-
feed Jones antenna a useful all-round
system will be interested in the dia-
grammed version by an American. It
might be termed a double single-wire-
feed antenna. W9ZPG already had in
use the conventional Jones system, 66ft.
long with feeder lift, off centre. It
was an easy matter to string another
66ft. wire parallel to the original 33ft.
below it, and to run a straight wire from
the lift, off-centre poiqt of one to the
other. A single feeder was then con-
nected at the mid-point of the bridging
feeder and run straight into the operat-
ing room. A parallel-tuned tank circuit
was link-coupled to the final of the trans-
mitter and the feeder tapped on in the
Double s.-w.-f. antenna referred to here.
usual manner. Gratifying results were
obtained from the start. DX is worked
more consistently than before, with re-
ports averaging two S points higher. It
seems worth a trial. The same idea can
be applied to end and centre-fed zepps.
Remarkable that so few VK2’s are
using 28mc. with Ws at R 9 from 7 a.m.
to noon. During the afternoon VK6’s
are strong, and around 9 p.m. English
and Continental stations can be heard
and worked. Perhaps most of the 14mc.
gear doesn’t perk so well at 28mc., or
many receivers lack sensitivity at that
frequency. Next year will show a big
decline in 28mc. signals.
VK2NO.
Clyde Battery Production
Manager.
Well-known battery expert E. Ash-
worth has rejoined the Clyde Co. to
control battery production at the Gran-
ville (N.S.W.) works. His experience in
storage battery manufacture covers a long
period. Commencing with the U.S.L. Co.
in 1922 he was from 1924 to 1926
E. ASHWORTH.
Clyde production manager, and in 1927
was supervising Melbourne and New-
castle factories of A.G.E. Followed a
period with the Century Co., and then
seven and a half years with Vesta. Mr.
Ashworth is a draughtsman-engineer and
a member of the Electro-Chemical
Society of U.S.A.
The Question Box.
What, besides a bin. circular saw, jig-saw, air-
compressor and spray-gun, with power from a
i-h.p. electric motor, would you suggest are
needed in a home workshop ? —729.
A power-driven bench drill for drills up to
iin. and a small back-geared metal-working
lathe would be useful. Indispensable tools are
a robust metal vyce, electric soldering iron and
a supply of smooth and rough-cut metal files.
* * * *
(1) In the Preselector Unit described B.
10/8/ ’3B how many turns of 9/40 Litz wire
would be needed to cover the broadcast band
on Draloperm pillbox type core using a
.0005 mfd. variable tuning condenser ? (2) Could
No. 30 enamelled copper wire be used suc-
cessfully? (3) Should the coil be screened?
(4) Could a Preselector coil be satisfactorily
wound on a pillbox type iron core? —733.
(1) Approximately 70 turns. (2) Efficiency of
the coil will not be so high as with Litz wire,
but satisfactory results can be obtained with
30-gauge enamelled wire. (3) and (4) Yes.


HITS
LrS
9k
proof.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
-• .
•*v.f
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS." `
Sydney Wool Sales.
“Ghanam”: Sydney sales have indi-
cated a firm market though with little
tendency to rise much, and despite that
there was a fall of Id. in tops prices last
week the outlook in Bradford is regarded
as more hopeful.
The average price for Sydney sales is
over 10yd., but clean cost is sadly down
on last season, though the margin is
gradually being closed up. Over 90 p.c.
of all wool offered in Sydney was sold.
So far, export figures to October 31
were the lowest for any season since 1934,
as was the wool realisation, although
more bales were sold.
Last year in Sydney, 297,000 bales in
the first three months brought £5,651,000,
an average of 14.9 d.; this year sales were
338,000 bales for £4,439,000, an average
of 10.2 d. Deliveries into store to Novem-
ber 4 were only 712,848 bales since
July 1, against 846,000 the year before.
The volume of manufactured trade in
Britain is below last year’s level. Still,
the prospects of better Japanese and
U.S.A. buying and an increase in Euro-
pean demand for uniform cloths, which
will come with defence expansion going
along at its recent rate, all give cause for
hope.
New Treatment for Fly-strike.
“Bungaree”: A new method of pre-
venting fly-strike developed by the Stock
Inspector at Charleville (s.-w. Q.) is at-
tracting some attention. Whereas the
Mules operation aims at removing breech
wrinkles without interfering with wool-
growth, this, the Manchester method,
removes the wool permanently from the
breech.
The wool is first sheared from the
crutch as close to the skin as possible.
The ewe is then held on its back and the
vulva protected, preferably by holding
a wide-mouthed bottle over it. The
breech area as far as the udder and also
the tip of the tail are then swabbed with
methylated spirit, after which a 20 p.c.
solution of caustic potash is swabbed on
the area. This forms a scab which falls
off in three to four weeks, leaving a
patch of bare skin. Wool will not grow
again on this area, and the breech should
thus be always dry and unattractive to
fly-
The method requires a fair amount of
time and handling of sheep, and the
treatment appears to be severe. During
the time between the application of
caustic and the falling off of the scab,
sheep would require constant attention,
as they would then be particularly vul-
nerable to fly-attack.
There is need, too, for the utmost care
in handling the caustic solution. Not
only are the animals’ genital organs likely
to be injured by contact with it, but a
sheep might easily kick some of the liquid
into the eyes of the operator or holder.
Whether the treatment will pay on a
large scale remains to be seen. In any
case, it affects only the treated animal.
There is still need to concentrate on
breeding out wrinkles.
“Albarmount”: Dr. G. Watt, of Wel-
lington (N.S.W.), is “blueing” the crutch
of 1000 ewes for the third year’s test of
his color repellent for flies.
Studmasters McMaster and George
Mack are also carrying out tests, and the
C.S. and T.R. is interested.
If the summer rains continue it should
be a good year for testing the scheme.
Last year Dr. Watt treated 250 ewes and
had 750 untreated for controls. Several
of the non-“blued” sheep became fly-
blown, but not one of the treated ones
was struck. After dressing, the struck
sheep were “blued” and none was re-
blown.
Fluke and Black Disease.
“Bungaree”: Now is the time to take
precautions against black disease. It is
closely associated with liver fluke in
sheep ; losses are usually dependent on
fluke ravages. All sheep in a flock may
be infected with b.d., yet there may not
be a single loss if they are kept free of
fluke.
The campaign may be divided into (1)
destruction of the freshwater snail
“Me missus? Cripes, boss , meant to tell yer she bounced off bout six mile back."
Limnea brazierii ), which is the host of
the young fluke ; (2) drenching sheep to
eradicate fluke already picked up, and
(3) inoculation of sheep with b.d. vac-
cine.
The permanent eradication of fluke on
a property is almost impossible. Though
(1) and (2) are thoroughly carried out
reinfestation may occur through sheep
being sent to agistment on fluky country
or other infested sheep being brought on
to the property.
Also, where a creek, spring or swamp
heads outside the boundary (1) can give
only temporary protection.
Fluke eggs are passed in the faeces of
the sheep, and if dropped near a marshy
area the young fluke searches round for
a small water-snail, whose body it enters.
Eventually it leaves the snail, climbs a
blade of grass and is swallowed by
sheep.
To destroy the snail (and fluke) copper
sulphate crystals in small bags should be
suspended in creeks at the point where
they enter the property. Springs and
swamps should be cleared of the snail
by broadcasting powdered bluestone
mixed with sand (one part bluestone to
four parts sand) over the wet areas. There
is no danger of poisoning stock, but the
work must be carried out in late winter
or early spring to be effective.
Drenching is needed to kill the fluke
already in the sheep, and the best drench
is carbon tet. Single-strength drench (one
part carb. tet. to four parts white oil) is
effective against fluke, but double-strength
(two parts carb. tet. to three parts white
oil) is effective against the large stomach
worm as well and is preferable.
The dose for grown sheep is 5 c.c. and
it is best to buy the drench ready mixed.
Carbon tet. weighs twice as much as
white oil, and the two should be com-
bined in a mechanical mixer for best
results. One dose of drench will kill adult
fluke only, and further drenchings are
needed to reach the younger pests.
’Hoppers Again.
“J. Want”: ’Hoppers are at it again
this year, but in some districts, in N. S.
Wales particularly, baiting has had good
results —done thoroughly.
Control is a legal obligation in N. S.
Wales under the Noxious Weeds Act;
but with one district having a thorough
clean-up and the next indifferent, ’hoppers
will never be wiped out. What is needed
is a State-wide survey of grasshopper
areas and wholesale handling of the
problem for a season or two.
W.A. is the latest victim of the pest.
Last year the ’hoppers appeared for the
first time in the Midland Railway area.
They are worse there this year. One
station has lost 14,000 acres of pasture,
others up to 90 p.c. of their feed.
Pasture v. Blackberry.
“Zedo”: Maoriland has done a deal
more to replace blackberry with pasture
than has Australia. The pest is being
wiped out in districts round the Bay of
Plenty where it had almost taken pos-
session of rich, drained swamp lands.
The problem is made easier because
the lands are mostly level. The black-
berry is first rolled down in late spring
or early summer with a tractor —some-
times the growth is 6ft. high. Then a
disk plant is hitched on and the weed is
cut to pieces, allowed to dry and fired
in December.
So soon as new shoots and crowns
begin to appear, a heavy stocking of dry
ewes is put on and kept there till well
into the autumn. In March the ground
is thoroughly disked again and put down
with 301 b. perennial rye, 81b. paspalum
and 21b. white clover.
The essential factor is the heavy
summer stocking. Sheep suffer some-
what under the treatment, hence the
choice of dry ewes with no load to carry.
They need to be fairly well in condition,
and if they tend to go off should be
rested for a week or two on grass.
Wimmera Rye with Lucerne.
A recent M.O.L. objection
to lucerne was that it did not check
erosion ; in time it thinned out, and the
bare ground between the stools became
loosened by the trampling of stock.
Another objection is that within a few
years the ground between the lucerne
stools becomes smothered with barley
grass.
In S.A., on country where the rain-
fall ranges between 15in. and 18in., the
trouble is caused by too heavy a seeding
in the first place, sowing on other than
a well-worked fallow, and neglect to use
Wimmera rye grass to prevent other
plants from gaining a footing.
The best results are obtained by work-
ing the fallow just as carefully as for a
wheat crop. No more than 31b. of inocu-
lated lucerne seed p.a. is sown, with oats
as a cover crop. The oats are cut green
for ensilage or a little later for hay, and
the paddock is given a light grazing just
as the lucerne is coming into flower to
save the young plants from the strain of
making seed.
The following autumn the annual top-
dressing of a bag of super, per acre is
applied with a drill, and at the same time
21b. of Wimmera rye p.a. is drilled in. The
rye grass prevents near-useless stuff, like
barley grass, from getting a footing,
balances the pasture and doubles the
carrying capacity.
If more than 31b. of lucerne seed is
used, the stand is too thick in the first
year, and the bigger proportion of the
young plants die. out from competition,
making the stand too thin thereafter.
The same thing results if sown on stubble
instead of a well-worked fallow.
An example can be seen on G. T.
Butler’s Ben Lomond property, north of
(“ Land” continued on page 44.)


SUCCESS and SUNSHINE MACHINERY GO TOGETHER
The NEW No. 8
SUNDERCUT
I Stump-jump
DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
??
Always supreme for its efficient cultivation, light draught and long life, the Sundercut now has, in addition, far better control
than any other such implement. The eight new refinements are:—
1— Extended frame to rear wheels.
2 Improved design of steering.
3 Rigid draught.
4 Draught adjustable for height as well as laterally.
5 Front wheel independently adjustable.
6 Lifting lever on each upright, giving easier and finer
depth regulation.
7 Easy lever control—all lifting levers are fitted with
balancing helper springs.
8— Lengthened teeth on jump mechanism for longer
service.
10, 12 and 14 disc sizes. Discs are 18in. and 20in.; or 20in. and 22in.
range of wheels to suit any conditions.
Equipped for horse or tractor haulage. Wide
\l \i
The NEW Patented
SUNDUKE
STUMP-JUMP SCARIFIER
The Sunduke is the only scarifier with all the draught gear above
the frame. There is nothing to touch it for clearance; in addition
to the obstruction-free height of 18 inches from the ground to
frame, it has exceptional space in every direction between the tynes.
Yet the tynes are so placed that all weeds are cut, the ground is
worked uniformly over the full width, and a level bottom is left.
The Sunduke will do excellent work in all conditions, including
heavy stubble.
Many improvements have recently been added to the Sunduke, including
levers of greater convenience for. easy handling.
14-tyne 7ft.
JO-tyne Bft.
cut
cut
18-tyne
20-tyne
Oft. cut
10ft. cut
Equipped for team or tractor haulage. Screw lift is available for
tractor work.
The SUNTYNE
mm
WHY THE
SUNTYNE
HAS NEVER
BEEN EQUALLED
From hopper to seed-
bed—even distribution.
The feed-run is precision
manufactured to fine
limit's, ensuring positive,
accurate and uniform
sowing on a firm, level
*-»o^bed.
COMBINED
GRAIN AND
FERTILIZER
DRILL AND
SPRING TYNE
CULTIVATOR.
!i»V>MwtViVmMi i ii» mT***
Australia’s outstanding “combine”! A great success when
first introduced, and so constantly improved ever since that
it has always held the leadership by a wide margin. Used by
most progressive farmers, including the majority of crop
competition winners.
The latest Suntyne is more definitely than ever “Australia’s
Champion Combine.” Seven sizes: 8-row cultivates sft.;
12-row cultivates 7^ft.; 14-row cultivates ft.; 16-row
cultivates 9^ft.; 18-row cultivates 10 2-3 ft.; 20-row cultivates
12ft.; 24-row cultivates 1 4ft.
The NEW
SUNLEA
Stump-jump Rigid Tyne
CULTIVATING DRILL
This entirely new machine has patented bridle draught of
unique design. It is the only “combine” that is absolutely
draught controlled. Has already been proved a complete
success, especially for work in stumpy and stony country.
16-row size cultivates 9^ft.; 20-row size cultivates 12ft.
Equipped for team or tractor haulage. Can be fitted with
screw lift and depth control for tractor work.
mm&T
Ask your local agent for full details; or Write direct to nearest branch.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Victoria.)
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE. CONCORD WEST (near Sydney). 95-97 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE. Corner
MURRAY and KING STREETS, PERTH. Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay, Massey Harris (Qld.) Pty., Ltd. (Sunshine Section),
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


■
A*
$
ft*
•ftv*
©
v-
V
%
LA
NZ
PUEL
COSTS
£i
Write for booklet, "How
Angus Saved £l5O on his
Tractor Costs." It gives
some amazing but true
figures.
With the LANZ, Farming Pays
Despite Low Wheat Prices!
Who couldn't make farming pay with an average yearly
operating cost of 3.21 d. an acre?
When a land-owner becomes a Lanz-owner he has
found the key to more profitable farming, for the Lanz
puts his whole operation on the most economical basis.
With fuel costs cut down to a third, away goes the most
expensive item in tractor work.
Here is an example:— 7th Sept , t 1937>
"Please find working costs of my new Model 'N' Lanz which replaces
a model HR4 supplied to me in October, 1928; this had done enormous
work and was sold for £3OO with pneumatic tyres, minus the steel wheels,
which is more than half the original cost.
"Good as the old tractor was, there is a vast improvement in the
new model, such as the oiling system, throttle control governor, clutch
and hot bulb. We have not had the slightest trouble and consider the
Lanz the most reliable, economical and durable tractor procurable.
SOME WORK DONE RECENTLY:
Acres Hours Gals. Fuel Oil (Pts.)
Harrowing—B Shearer .... 422 52 64 20
Cultivating 856 102 135 41
Seeding (24 Horwood and 6
heavy harrows) .... 691 143 193 60
Fallowing (14 Shearer King
Disc) 1,002 334 447 149
TOTAL .... 2.971 631 839 270
Cost of fuel and oil landed on farm, £39/1/4; average cost. , „
per acre,
(Sgd.) A.V.P. (Name on application).
?
s u o i 3 v a i
7*4)
aomina.
DISTRIBUTORS:—
New South Wales:
Tractors & Machinery
Pty. Ltd.,
131-133 Palmer Street,
Sydney
Victoria & S. Riverina:
Geo. W. Kelly & Lewis
Pty. Ltd.,
304-308 Spencer Street,
Melbourne
South Australia:
Waymouth Motor Com-
pany Limited
42 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide
Queensland:
General Farm Machinery
Ltd.,
134 Albert Street,
Brisbane
Western Australia:
Kelly & Lewis (W.A.)
Pty. Ltd.,
William and Forbes Sts.»
Perth
Be Your Own Agent!
Save the middleman’s profits by
buying all your
TOBACCO
DIRECT FROM THE FACTORY
These EmpiVe-grown Tobaccos are of high quality
—specially blended —aromatic in flavour and
smooth smoking.
With all orders over £1 in all lines, you are
offered.
FREE
a Briar or Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch,
Cigarette Lighter or Holder.
Per lb.
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
COMBINED GROWERS'
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
12 COMMERCIAL RD., VALLEY, BRISBANE.
Kapunda (S.A.), where lucerne-rye grass
pasture has been established by the fore-
going methods. One 230-acre paddock had
been cropped continuously for 50 years
and was starting to wash away In 1936
n the fdiowfttgyea^t 8 last
season it averaged two sheep to the acre
and fattened a B m ob of cattie.
Victorian Wheats.
“Geedee”: Since its establishment six
years ago the Vic. Agricultural Depart-
ment’s Mallee Research Station at Wal-
peup has done much really good work
in the development of hardy wheat
varieties suitable for the low rainfall
areas of the north-west Mallee.
The newest variety, Regalia, a cross
of Ranee and Free Gallipoli, closely
resembling Ranee 4H in appearance and
grain quality was released last season
after showing an average of 31.7 bushels
over the past three years. It has proved
itself better than any of the established
early-maturing wheats, and is superior
to Gurkha in baking quality.
... . . ° , , ,
Walpeup returns, too, have focused
attention on the possibilities of Baldmin
and Bencubbin for Mallee planting.
Baldnun topped all the standard varieties
In last years plots with a yield of 13
bags to the acre, but was beaten by four
new crosses
rnrL-L.. ;o virtAri.'e „,~ cf „ nn „i,r
sssfssis
with an improved selection which has
consistently outyielded ihe original by as
much as 4.8 bushels per acre. It is taller
than the original Gurkha (a big advan-
tage in stumpy ground), has a slightly
larger grain and is of a much better
baking quality. Last season it yielded
up to 40 bushels to the acre.
Premium Wheats.
“A.A.D.”: The highest premium wheat
commercially grown in N.S.W., the
Indian variety Pusa 4, has in the north-
west this harvest upset all previous ideas
0 f j ts yield capacity, many crops goin"
~ , 0 15 b to , he acre At North
Star ~ won (he fle , d whea( competition
™< s h a » a PP a ™‘ * 45 bash “
a lSl ace 4 ffi S” d .ftNarrabn with 46
StM
now paying an added 6d. for all good
samples.
Despite the excellent results at North
Star and Narrabri (north-western plains),
the wheat will not be eligible to compete
for the Flourmillers’ Association’s special
prize for Pusa 4 at next Sydney Royal,
This because of a condition that the ex-
hibits must be grown in areas recom-
mended by the Department of Agricul-
tme, which confines competition to the
north-western slopes,
-^ s th e ° n Y hall-marked variety o[
s long W 1! e , c ass recommended to
growers, it has been pronounced suitable
°. n or a cw localities on the northern
slo P e , s - These anomalies will need to be
ie ctihec in hie annual revision ot
va . r / e £l es and ar * as for hl< * the V are
suitable, now under consideration.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
„ _ . , , „ ,
, Ekib : Sucker lambs need careful
handling. If travelling by road take some
of the ew es with the mob to the trucking-
yard. Don’t lift ■& lamb by the skin;
ho T he- &ss
. ~ _i * .u ui „
™" s * f h i° market wlth the bloom
11
“Karaway”: When fastening wire-net-
ting to posts, run a piece of thick plain
wire through the meshes opposite each
post, and nail or staple that on. This
prevents meshes being pulled out of
shape, and keeps the whole width straight
and even. For corner or other posts,
where a coil is started, a piece of lath,
nailed over the netting, is best.
“Dimon”: Half a pound of washing
soda, applied to the roots, will clean
citrus trees of black smut and scale.
“Murrawong”: Nicotine sulphate is
not always sold by weight (B. 2/11 / ’3B).
The well-known brand I buy is sold in
tins containing 16 fluid ounces. The
bluestone and nicotine drench ready
mixed in bottles may suit a man with
only a few sheep to drench, but the cost
is excessive. A mixture of 16 fluid ounces
of nicotine sulphate to lib. of bluestone
would drench over 400 grown sheep.
Even if only half that quantity of drench
is mixed at a time, it is a very small
flock that will have fewer than 200 sheep
to drench. There are all sorts and grades
of nicotine sulphate on the market.
Color does not matter —nicotine sulphate
is supplied in light and dark grades—but
sediment may cause trouble. A good
test is to mix one part of nicotine sul-
phate to 20 parts of water and let it
stand in a bottle for a day or two. There
will always be a certain amount of sedi-
ment, but it should be fine in texture
and should leave the mixture clear, not
cloudy.
“Southdown”: W. M. Gibbs, who
specialises in export lambs on his irri-
gated holding at Griffith (N.S.W.), is
satisfied that motor-lorry transport of
lambs has advantages over the special
trains now provided. This season he has
sent drafts of fat lambs by floats to the
Melbourne market, and 98 p.c. of his
consignments has been graded “A” and
sold at top prices. Gibbs won the dis-
trict’s “master-farmer” competition.
“W.D.Mc.”: My father, when manager
of Wunnamurra (N.S.W.) for the late
Frederick Sargood, once marked 22,000
lambs in five days. He had eight men
catching and one man earmarking, while
others yarded up. And there were no
special marking instruments in the ’six-
ties, except knife and tooth.
“A.8.H.”: A Milk Board inspector
came to tell me that the a.m. milk was
a point below the N.S.W. Milk Board
standard in butterfat, yet above the Pure
Food standard. The p.m. milk had a
very high butterfat content, bringing the
average of the a.m. and p.m. milk to
well over Milk Board standard. Result:
trouble! Since the milk we supply is
sold to Sydney in bulk, is it unreasonable
to suggest that it might be tested in bulk?
“Karaway”: One disadvantage of the
electric fence is that sheep and cattle,
after a couple of “stings,” are afraid to
approach a wire of any kind. This
makes more work in getting the animals
from one paddock to another and
through gates on the stock route. Sheep
are troublesome enough at gates anyhow.
“Pinto Pete”: R. S. Souter has been
doing valuable work in his experiments
on the Darling Downs (Q.) to find a
genuine rust-resisting wheat. He has
2500 varieties and crosses, and hopes for
success with a Pusa-Hope cross. Souter has
been interested, too, in improving milling
qualities. A wheat of his breeding (Pusa-
Flora), grown by G. J. Will, won the
Australian championship at Sydney
Royal last year, securing the “possible”
for gluten content and going 6841 b. to
the bushel.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
( Transferred, from Service Department .)
Because of low wool prices I’m thinking of
selling wethers which produce a good merino
wool — I’ve a small place in central west N.S.W.
—and changing over to fat lambs. What do
you think ?—51425.
Don’t, unless you are in a good rainfall
district. The success of fat-lamb breeding de-
pends on a certainty of green feed. One alter-
native is the breeding of crossbred ewes, a
better proposition for the central west. Good
crossbred ewes are scarce and really good ewes
are necessary to make fat-lamb breeding profit-
able. If the wethers are aged the price realised
might buy only a third of that number of cross-
bred ewes. They could be replaced by merino
ewes of a suitable type which would still give
adequate wool returns and by breeding with
long-wool rams —preferably Border Leicester or
Romney Marsh—would find a good market for
the ewe portion of the drop.


EVERY GARMENT
GUARANTE E D
TOP DOG
P ROD U C T I O N.
When it’s
MEN’S WEAR
MEN SWEAR
by
«p%Po Q
V
►V
I
?±,
X
m
1
otJo
&
RECD
ON WITH
THE SHOW?
MEN ! EVERYTHING IS
READY. HOW ABOUT
YOU? YOU'VE JUST
TIME TO GET THOSE
MERCERY NEEDS . . .
HERE . . . NOW I
mm
m
WE SHOW
THE LATEST
IDEAS IN HATS.
SHIRTS. TIES. SOX
AND MANY OTHER
LINES YOU'LL WANT
mm
CALL IN AND COMPARE OUR VALUES;
YOU’LL SEE HOW WELL WE PLEASE
IN THIS DEPARTMENT.
TOP DOG PRODUCTS
COOL
PANAMAS
FOR MEN
AND BOYS
ELMETS
FOR MEN
AND BOYS
HARVESTERS
FOR MEN
AND BOYS
Obtainable in a
variety ol qualities
TOP DOG
0 N S
Cjh
%zao
PLAIN DARK GREY
gabardine
A REAL WEARER
Your Local Store will
be pleased to show
you the latest in
TOP DOG
PRODUCTIONS
FOR HARD WEAR
v w
v/*'. V *
mim
i
••
$
TOP
DOG
WORKSHIRTS
—unequalled for rouqh
heavy work.
Cut on generous pro-
portions—giving absolute
freedom.
TOP DOG
Every Garment Guaranteed


• SHORT STORK
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn
in Spare Time!
The most thorough and practical'
Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School oS Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
1937
The BENGALL Hand Forged Blue Steel RAZOR
Hand. Forged
by craftsmen
with a lifetime’s ex-
perience in the art of
Razor forging.
Bengali Razors have Correct Heat Treatment, the
most important process in the manufacture of a Razor.
Try a BENGALI, BLUE STEEL RAZOR.
Sizes, lin., fin., 2in., Black Handle .... 12/6
„ „ „ „ Xylo. Handle .... 15/-
Obtainable from all Wholesale and Retail Houses.
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The rigid of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Fitzgerald’s Famous Australian Crimes (two
vols.). —1505.
Information Sought.
(1) Name and particulars of the first mechani-
cally-propelled boat to ply between Sydney
and Parramatta? (2) Date of first trip? —1514.
(1) The horseboat Experiment, so called be-
cause the mechanical propulsion was by means
of four horses which rotated the paddle-wheels.
This boat was capable of carrying over 100
passengers besides 20 tons of cargo. It was
about 60 tons burthen and had a draught of
only 2ft. when laden. (2) October 5, 1832, when
the boat reached Parramatta despite some initial
trouble with the horses, which did not take too
kindly to the motion.
* * * *
Are German electors given only affirmative
ballot papers, so that, if they wish to vote “no,”
they must ask for a different ballot paper? —
1463.
No, on every ballot paper at German elec-
tions there are two circles, one for “yes” and
one for “no.”
# * * *
What is the meaning of the dollar sign ? —•
1526.
For several centuries practically the whole
coinage of the European world came from
Mexico, where a mint was established in 1535.
From this mint were issued “Spanish dollars”
or “pieces of eight.” The sign ($) now used to
signify the U.S.A. dollar is supposed to derive
from the Spanish “pillar dollar” of eight reals;
the curved portion of the sign is a rude eight,
and fhe vertical strokes are a symbol of the
pillars of Hercules, an emblem of the Spanish
Empire.
* * * *
(1) When was Parramatta founded? (2)
Exact location of the first site selected? (3)
Why was the settlement first known as “Rose
Hill” ?— 1524.
(1) On November 2, 1788, Governor Phillip,
with the Surveyor-General, Baron Alt, two
officers and a small party of marines, went by
water to the head of the river to select the
site and mark out the ground for a redoubt
and necessary buildings. (2) The first area
cleared was the hill in the park on which the
Governor’s house was later erected. Cultiva-
tion was begun immediately with hoes, each
convict’s task being to dig 16 rods daily. (3)
After Sir George Rose, one of the Secretaries
of the Treasury.
* * * *
What were the earlier names of Australia? —
1521.
In 1606 De Quiros discovered the New
Hebrides and, believing it to be part of a
great continent, named it “Austrialia del Espiritu
Santo.” The mainland, when first discovered
by the Dutch, was vaguely known as “Terra
Australis” and later as “Nova Hollandia,”
which title was its official designation for nearly
200 years. When Phillip founded a settlement
in the regions annexed by Cook, all land east
of 135deg. E. long, was called “New South
Wales,” while the land to the west of this
line still retained the old name of “New Hol-
land.” As early as 1804 Flinders used “Aus-
tralia” to include the whole continent, which
word, after some opposition, was eventually
adopted, although the mainland was still offi-
cially known as “New Holland” as late as
1849.
* * * *
Some information regarding the Legacy Club
of Sydney? —1528.
The club was formed on June 10, 1926. It
is a body of ex-servicemen who have accepted
responsibility for the physical and moral welfare
of children whose fathers were killed in the
Great War or who have died since. It is non-
sectarian and non-political, and receives no
financial assistance from any Government.
Children receive gymnastic training each week
and have at their disposal reading, rest and
games rooms. Chief object of the club is to
find employment for its junior, members.
* * * #
(1) Number of prison farms in N.S.W.?
(2) What classes of prisoners are usually sent
to them ? (3) Number of prisoners sent to
such farms each year? (4) To what degree are
such farms self-supporting? —1437.
(1) One at Emu Plains and four prison
afforestation camps at Mannus, Bombala, Glen
Innes and Oberon respectively. (2) Emu
Plains, specially selected prisoners under 25 years
of age who have not been previously im-
prisoned ; Mannus, specially selected prisoners
over 25 years who have not been previously
imprisoned; Bombala and Glen Innes, spe-
cially selected prisoners who have been pre-
viously imprisoned; Oberon, specially selected
prisoners who have been previously im-
prisoned, drawn mainly from those under 25
years with previous convictions. ' (3) Emu
Plains 300, Mannus 100, Bombala 60, Glen
Innes 100, Oberon 130. (4) The average net
cost of maintaining each of these establishments
during the last financial year was £4190. The
camps and farm are self-supporting in vegetables
and milk, and the farm produces all its own
forage. Camps are reducing meat costs by
killing their own cattle and pigs and forming
a national asset by pine plantation.
(1) When was construction of the French
Maginot line begun ? (2) How far does it ex-
tend ? (3) Approximate number of fortresses ?
(4) Deepest section ? (5) Why the name
Maginot? (6) English pronunciation? (7)
Heaviest guns? —l49B.
(1) About 1930. (2) Firstly from the Swiss
to the Belgian border, then later extended
to the North Sea after the Belgian declaration
of neutrality. (5) After Maginot, the
French War Minister responsible for the con-
struction of the fortified line. (6) Mah-gee-no.
(“Gee” is an approximation; “shee,” the “sh”
being softened, would be more cprrect.) (3),
(4) and (7) Not available.
* * * *
(1) I served with the B.E.F. (R.F.A.) in
France during the Great War and have since
lost my discharge certificate. How may I
secure a duplicate ? (2) 1 have never received
any medals. How may I obtain them? — 1363.
(1) Submit an application with a brief account
of service in letter form, together with a statu-
tory declaration showing the circumstances
in which the document was lost, to the
officer in charge of the records of your former
regiment in the British Army. (2) Apply to
the Under-Secretary, War Office, London,
giving full particulars of regimental number,
rank, name and dates of service in the regiment.
* * * *
(1) Who controls the Queensland police
force? (2) Complement of the force? (3)
Recruiting system ? — 1535.
(1) The Commissioner in Brisbane. (2) At
the year ended 1937 it contained 1401 officers,
including 49 detectives, 38 trackers and two
women police. (3) Entrance is by examination
held annually, the standard being equivalent
to the seventh grade of the State primary
schools. Subjects are English, mathematics
and geography (principally Queensland). Can-
didates are selected in order of merit, with due
care that the requisite number of horsemen
and bushmen are obtained. Recruits are given
three months’ schooling and specialised training
at the Police Depot, Brisbane, before being
sworn in as constables. There is also a cadet
system under which youths of about 18 years
are enrolled to perform clerical work and re-
ceive instruction in Italian. On attaining 21
years they are sent to the Police Depot to re-
ceive the usual three months’ training before
being made constables.
* * * *
Total number of migrants to Australia and
M.L. for each year since 1919? Humber of
British migrants? Italian? — 1232.
. Australia ■ v —■ Maoriland
Brit. Ital. All. | Brit. ltal. All.
1919 .. 10,997 -476 166,303
1920 .. 17,931 -144 27,606
1921 . . 17,630 804 17,525 9,495 39 9,689
1922 ..34,729 2702 40,157 11,358 48 11,695
1923 .. 35,154 1348 39,714 8,992 17 9,288
1924 ..36,114 3924 46,069 11,311 48 12,058
1925 ..32,369 4854 39,801 12,903 258 13,758
1926 . . 38,482 2729 44,783 14,583 87 15,287
1927 ..39,872 6516 51,580 6,849 56 7,182
1928 .. 24,746 1374 30,054 392 30 443
1929 .. 10,268 90 11,820 2,625 28 2,796
1930 . -7,538 -156 -8,530 4,280 20 4,238
1931 . -6,640-1076-10,094 -1,172 -8 -1,409
1932 . -2,454 -139 -2,997 -3,148 -18 -3,331
1933 .. -134 454 214 -3,491 a 7a-3,586a
1934 .. 807 863 2,280 -3,299 b 11b-3,150b
1935 . -2,139 1421 -289 -1,392 c 34c-1,114c
1936 .-1,080 913 1,497 -832 b 3d -353 and
1937 .. -411 1815 5,203 |
A 1933-34. B 1934-35. c 1935-36. and 1936-37.
* * * *
(1) Could I join the R.A.A.F. as a student
mechanic with only a limited experience in
motors? (2) Is a diploma necessary? (3)
Would a school course in Diesel engineering
be of any help? (4) Wages? —l39l.
(1) No. (2) A full-term apprenticeship of
fitting or turning is necessary, and the applicant
must satisfy the medical and dental standard.
(3) Not unless you have the qualifications
mentioned in (2), (4) For full particulars, write
the R.A.A.F. Selection Board, Richmond, for
the Blue Book.
* * * *
(1) How many flying hours are necessary
for a B-class commercial flying license ? Other
qualifications ? (2) How many flying hours
were logged by (a) Kingsford Smith, (b) Bert
Hinkler, (c) C.’J. Melrose? (3) Are the flying
hours of pilots still on the fob kept private?
If not, how many have been recorded by
(a) Keith Virtue (A.O.A. chief), and (b) Norman
Croucher (at present, l believe, with Australian
National Airways) ? —l3Ol.
(1) 100 hours solo flying; pass medical ex-
amination and written examination in engines,
flying machines, air pilotage, meteorology and
the Air Navigation Regulations; pass tests in
altitude, crosscountry, night, instrument and
general flying. (2) ( a) 7000, (b) not available,
(c) 800. (3) (a) 9000 hours, ( b) 4500 hours,
* * * *
(1) What qualifications are necessary to be-
come a marine wireless operator? (2) Where
can experience be gained? (3) How long to
qualify? (4) Chances of employment when
qualified? (5) Would it be difficult for a man
of 45 to obtain employment? —l4l4.
(1) A second-class commercial operator’s
certificate of proficiency, issued by the P.M.G.
Department. (2) Marconi School of Wireless,
97 Clarence-street, Sydney. (3) 21 months to
two years. (4) Fair. (5) Younger men are pre-
ferred.
Descriptions of the Cape Otway lighthouse’s
system of flashing? —l43l.
This lighthouse, height 300 ft. above high
water, visibility 24 miles, gives three flashes a
minute on the following system: Flash 3sec.,
dark 6sec.; flash 3sec., dark 6sec.; flash 3sec.,
dark 39sec.
* * * *
Particulars of the Clive Lord Memorial Prize
offered by the Council of the Royal Society
of Tasmania? —ls46.
A prize of £lO is offered for the best essay
on some aspect of the history of Tas-
mania, the natural history or geology of Tas-
mania or the value of fauna and flora protec-
tion and the functions of a national park.
Essays should consist of not more than 5000
words, and should be clearly written or typed
on one side of the paper only. The council
has absolute discretion whether or not an
award is made in respect of any thesis sub-
mitted. Essays should reach the secretary not
later than January 31, 1939, and the successful
entry becomes the property of the society.
* * * *
Same particulars of small birds known as
chats?— ls34.
The name “chats” is applied in Australia to
an endemic family of small perching birds,
quite distinct from the chats of Europe and
Africa. They are small'and mostly ornamented
with bright colors, and are often found in small
parties in open country with scattered bushes.
They build cup-shaped nests in low bush or
tufts of grass and line them with hair. To
entice intruders away from their nests they
employ the same device as do ducks and
plovers—fluttering away from the nest and pre-
tending to be wounded. They vary in color
from the white-fronted, crimson-breasted chats
to the orange, yellow and brown-and-yellow
desert chats.
* * * *
(1) What amount in stamp duties would have
to be paid for a man to transfer two farms
to his two sons? (2) What probate duties would
have to be paid on an estate of £5500? —1502.
(1) Write to the Stamps Duties Office,
150 Phillip-street, Sydney, and give definite de-
tails as to the proposed disposal of the property
and overdraft. (2) In N.S.W., where the
final balance of the estate is over £IOOO and
under £61,000 the duty is 2 p.c., plus } p.c.
for every £IOOO or part thereof by which the
balance of the estate exceeds £IOOO. Half-rates
of duty are allowed on all property passing
to the widow and/or children under 21 years
in estates of value not exceeding £SOOO. In
the case of the Federal Government, where
the total value of the estate, after deducting
all debts, exceeds £2OOO, the duty is £l, together
with an additional percentage of 4s. for every
£IOOO or part thereof exceeding £2OOO. Where
the estate passes to a widow, children or grand-
children these rates are subject to a rebate
of one-third.
* * * *
(1) Is an insurance policy (£IOO payable at
death), held by a person who receives full pen-
sion, expropriated by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment after death ? (2) Is the same person
entitled to pension while in hospital? (3) If
not, is it advisable to pay into a hospital fund?
(4) Definition of a “public hospital ’’ ? —1442.
(1) The Department of Invalid and Old-age
Pensions makes no claim on the estate of a de-
’ ceased pensioner unless he has, through misrep-
resentation, received pension instalments to
which he was not entitled. (2) Section
45 of the Invalid and Old-age Pensions
Act provides that when a pensioner be-
comes an inmate of a hospital his pen-
sion is automatically suspended. When
discharged, however, he is entitled to
payment of a sum representing not more
than four weeks’ instalments of the pen-
sion, if the suspension so long continued.
If he remains in hospital for 28 days he
receives, upon expiration of that time
and so long thereafter as he remains
an inmate, a pension not exceeding 6s.
per week. (3) Whether he subscribes to
a hospital fund or not the provision of
Section 45 of the Act will be enforced.
While he receives the hospital pension
the hospital authorities are paid by the
department a sum representing the dif-
ference between the hospital pension and
his normal pension. If he subscribes
to a hospital fund he should apply to
the hospital authorities for a refund of
the amount paid by the department for his
maintenance. (4) Under the Invalid and Old-age
Pensions Act “hospital” means any hospital
which is wholly or partly maintained by con-
tributions from a Commonwealth or State con-
solidated revenue fund, and which is proclaimed
by the Governor-General to be a hospital for
the purposes of the Act.
* * * *
(1) How to treat brown scale which has badly
affected gardenia and daphne shrubs ? I do
not know how long the pest has been there.
(2) Formula for kerosene emulsion? —1540.
(1) Brown scale, which exudes a sweet fluid
attractive to ants, should be sprayed with Volck.
It may require three or fo\ir treatments at
weekly intervals to clean them up. To get
rid of the ants, spray with Black Leaf 40 or
place bands of fly-paper around the trunks of
the shrubs. Renew the paper every week. (2)
Kerosene emulsion is made by boiling |lb.
cohimon soap in one gallon of water. When
tepid add one pint of kerosene and stir vigor-
ously. Use i-pint of emulsion in four gallons
of water for spraying. Protection for the face
while applying is a necessary precaution.
* * * *
Is Griffo still alive ? If not, when and where
did he die?— l423.
Griffo died in New York on December 6,
1927, aged 56.
* * * *
(1) What are the longest bare-knuckle fights
on record? (2) The shortest? —1530.
(1) One between James Kelly and Jonathan
Smith lasted 6hr. 15min. It was" fought near
Melbourne in November, 1855. Bill Hayes and
Mike Madden fought for 6hr. 3min. at Eden-
bridge, England, on July 17, 1849; and John
Fitzpatrick and James O’Neii took 4hr. 20min.
to settle their difference at Berwick, Maine,
On December 4, 1849. (2) The fight in which
Watson knocked out Alf Anderson at Langley
Broom, England, on April 25, 1789, in two
minutes.
In a recent cricket match the watches of the
umpires differed. One called “time" when the
batting side needed two runs to win. The other
umpire’s watch showed there vi’fli four minutes’
play left. Who had the right to decide? —1549.
The instructions to umpires definitely state
that they must consult and agree upon their
watches before play begins. If this was over-
looked then it is a matter to be decided by your
cricket association. Probably if the trouble
cannot be smoothed out the association would
be justified in ordering a replay or calling it
a drawn game and allotting points. The
umpires certainly deserve censure for their part
in the trouble.
Brief Answers.
F.H.C.: Figures on feeler gauges represent
thickness, in thousandths of an inch, 25 being
25 thousandths or 1 -40th inch, and 10 being 10
thousandths or 1- 100th inch... .H. 8.: This
office does not do job printing. Any large Bris-
bane printer will quote you a price for the work.
A.C.S.: Opinions differ, but Madame
Curie, Mrs. Pankhurst and Evangeline Booth
would no doubt be included among first ten.
Biographies of all will be found in N.S.W.
Public Library, Sydney... .F.P.: Write Director,
National Insurance Commission, Canberra,
A.C.T F.W.: Cannot recommend any par-
ticular firm; the well-known ones in Sydney
are all quite reliable... .J.R.L.: Bernard Cronin,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders-lane, Mel-
bourne... .H.N.L.: The specimen submitted
for identification is botanically known as
Tropoeolum pentaphyllum, which is a tuberous-
rooted variety. It very much resembles
Tropceolum jarrattii, but the foliage is darker
in color, although the flowers are the same
shade. Both are indigenous to South America.
The plants are perennial, though in severe cold
climates they are apt to die down during the
winter months A.8.F.: The William-street
(Sydney) Post Office was transferred to the
present building on April 23, 1927... .H.E.8.:
A fireproof cement for setting brickwork is
available from McKinlay Fletcher, Ltd., 277
Clarence-street, Sydney; the material bears the
trade name of “Refractite,” and is in paste
form, between 3501 b. and 5001 b. of the paste
being required to lay 1000 bricks. The material
is packed in 701 b. tins or 3£cwt. drums, and is
sold at 375. 6d. per cwt., f.o.r. Sydney. A fire-
proof cement for setting brickwork is also re-
tailed by the Newbold Silica Fire-brick Cos., 77
York-street, Sydney J.A.: Write Technologi-
cal Museum, Harris-street, Sydney... .C.D.L. :
The use of birdlime for trapping birds is
prohibited by law S.L.H.: Have them treated
by a picture-restorer. There are several ip
Sydney who are reliable and could do the
necessary work, among them John Young, Mac-
quarie Galleries, 19 Bligh-street, and Samuel
Holden, 86 Hunter-street... .A.G.J.: Write the
Genealogical Society, 91 Phillip-street, Sydney.
R.D.M.: See An Historical and Statistical
Account of N.S.W., by Dr. J. D. Lang....
M. The Alsatian is the result of crossing
the Wurtemberg shepherd dog with the Thur-
ingian shepherd dog, both of Germany. Rin
Tin Tin was born in the trenches during the
Great War; his mother was a German shep-
herd, as was his sire....L.C.: The egg is most
probably that of one of the dotterel or sand-
pipers, but several other shore birds lay eggs
which would fit the description. Dotterels lay
three or four eggs on the sand, without any
attempt to make a nest other than a slight
depression. Seagulls lay their eggs on sand
or grass, or under tussocks of grass on the
seashore, on islands off the coast, not only ol
N. S. Wales but of other parts of Australia....
G.L.: Get in touch with the N.Z. Government
Trade Commissioner, Colonial Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin-place, Sydney... .G.S.: Use
boiled linseed oil of good quality. 11 it has
been standing long it may become covered
with a dry skin, which should be removed and
not worked up with the brush. The oil must
be even in texture, and should flow freely irom
the brush. When putting on the first coat, a
little turpentine may be added as a drier and
to spread the oil for quick penetration....
J.H.: Very difficult to make such preparations
economically for yourself, but any of the com-
mercial sprays advertised are efficient against
both fleas and silverfish. Sprays of cresol or
crude oil emulsion are lethal to fleas, as is
the sprinkling of naphthaline on floors (espe-
cially in the cracks between boards).. . .C.J.8.:
Fibrosis of the lung is a condition in which
the normal lung tissue, in large or s'mall areas,
becomes transfcfrmed into fibrous tissue. It
often follows upon long-standing bronchitis,
broncho-pneumonia, lobar pneumonia and other
pulmonary affections. The complaint is com-
monly associated with embarrassment in breath-
ing, and was a not uncommon consequence ol
the inhalation of toxic gases during the Great
War... .P.C.L.: There are now several surgi-
cal operations advocated for this malady, but
the details you require could be obtained only
from the hospital authorities. In view of your
age, very careful consideration would be neces-
sary. ... D.W.P.: (1) Prospects good. (2) Apply
S. S. Mowder, c/o Dr. Scholl’s Foot Comfort
Service, Farleigh, Nettheim and Cos., Foveaux-
street, Sydney. (3) Length of apprenticeship
varies with the ability of the student. (4)
Females £3 10s. per week, males £7 J.L.H.:
Don’t know of any Jacobite club in Australia.
Write to C. C. Bagnall, Private Bag, Welling-
ton, M.L A.P.L.: Dept, of Agriculture
(N.S.W.) states that this water may safely be
used for drinking purposes. Boiling or the addi-
tion of milk of lime will diminish the hardness
but not the salinity. If you send a sample to
the department (about one pint) a full analysis
will be made and any necessary advice given
free of charge... .F.T.: Write to the hon. sec.,
Stammerers’ Club of N.S.W., c/o The Green
Inn, 129 Phillip-street, Sydney H.8.W.:
Jones Sewing Machine Cos., Ltd., 72 Druitt-
street, Sydney T.F.: Yes, The Bulletin.


Learn ' .
Story
Writing
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU !
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Navie
My Address
S.B. 538
BRAN DALEYS
a**
PeNs
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations,
a brahdauer * co. Ltd. Birmingham, eng
USED TO WAKE UP
WITH A HEADACHE
Now Fresh and Lively Every
Morning.
Here is a man who woke up every morning
with a dull headache. Imagine the gloom that
prevailed at breakfast time —no cheerful “Good
Morning” from him! Then Kruschen trans-
formed his days. Read his letter:
“I used to wake up in the mornings with
a dull headache. A year ago I started taking
Kruschen Salts regularly. To-day 1 wake up
fresh and lively and can do my day’s work
without any exertion. I can recommend
Kruschen for anyone suffering from headaches
and constipation, and for putting new life into
you. I have just bought another three bottles,
and intend to continue with Kruschen for the
rest of my life.” —E.P.
Headaches can nearly always be traced to a
disordered stomach, and to the unsuspected re-
tention in the system of stagnating waste
material which poisons the blood. Remove
these poisons—prevent them from forming
again—and you’ll never have to worry any
more. And that is just how Kruschen Salts
brings swift and lasting relief from headaches.
NEW
THE
"Porthed
Somerset"
Poley
Saddle
£l5/3/9
(Mounted).
The seat is
of hogskin and
the flaps of best
qual. kip.
N.S.W. Rail Freight Paid for Cash
with Order.
WALTHER & STEVEMSOM E?J:|
39S CEOBCE ST. SYDNEY
GILLETTE
SAFETY RAZOR SETS
•-Vf
z
V/
k
w'i
No. 77 set. In attractive
coloured hygienic
moulded case,contains
two-piece Gillette
razor, three Blue
Gillette blades and two
blade holders + /
Complete for D / "
No. 4 TRAVELLING
set. In red mottled
folding case, contains
two-piece Gillette
razor, five Blue
Gillette blades, two
blade sheaths and
two mould rite tubes
containing Gillette
shaving brushandstick
ofshavingsoap/> /
Complete for Z\J/“
No. IS SET In hand-
some nickel-plated
case, contains Gillette
Aristocrat “One-
Piece” razor and ten
Gillette blades in
specially designed
blade holder.
Complete for j O
No. 19 PIGSKIN SET.
Contents similar to
above, but in pigskin
case with gold-plated
razor an(
blade sheaths. JO
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
There’s only one real test of a shaving system. Does it give you a
clean, close, smooth shave ? It is because Gillette passes this test
so capably that it is preferred by millions of men in every country
of the world.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, noi to members of the staff personally.
L.S.: Weaklings H.W.: Tell the typist,
B.J.: Pale LJ.: Keep at it, but keep
off sentimentality. Ever tried prose?....
r-w . a
MW.. A cup that mildly cheere ....
R-F.0.: When did you ever see a car meet
a hill with a “thrilling bound”? ... .H.C.P.:
“What's wrong with it?” Theme’s ancient,
execution languid... .E.E.: Forget those
“battlers,” and change that perky style....
F.McD.: “Hiawatha” and water... .T.E.McC.:
Sublime, as usual... .H.O’S.: Ornithologists
might be interested in parrots that “emit their
shrill lay”... .M.V.F.: Too late... .8.W.:
“Dead Weight” is heavy G. 8.: Merely de-
scription... .S.McK.: Poem would send Cham-
berlain off fishing again... .Acco : Would never
have guessed that you “worked at the damn’
thing for days and days” J.W.H.: It’s an old
story J.Q.: Just a puff of powder... .L.G.:
“Ever Onwards,” alas! is coming backwards,
J.D.: Worth rewriting C.A.J.: “Mystic
phonograph” isn’t the most awe-inspiring of
images... .C.L.G.: “Skeleton in the Cup-
board” needs a bit more meat to hold it to-
gether... .N.F.R.: “Swansong” flat... .L.F.T.:
Vigorous, but your reasoning doesn't hold
water... .G.R.C.: Plaintive peregrination....
L. R.: See you again in about two years time.
. ...J.P.T.: l know what I m unving ai.
Well, that's something... .N.T.D.: “Lily of the
Day” fell and died years ago H.N.R.:
Bright, but flimsy G.T.: Must you?
F. : Try the Service Department
8.R.L.: This year, next year, sometime
8.R.P.: “Treasure Ship” never sighted port,
K.F.R.: You’re wasting your time
G. Won’t have “Tragic Orphan” left on
our doorstep 8.T.R.: "Is this any use?”
We'd know if we could read it... .G.8.R.: So
that’s the way they play cricket down your way.
H.N.D.: “Some friends reckoned I wasn't
game to submit this to you.” You’fc game,
all right V.T.R.: Accept no responsibility,
but do our best if return postage is enclosed
. ...K.G.V.: “Where is my wandering boy?”
Left here immediately after his arrival....
M. : Would like to see something a bit
lighter J.T.G.: Nothing funny in any
human deformity... .T. 8.5.: You don’t
“thunder” very well 8.R.C.: Thanks for
the warning... .L.T.S.: Is that all you have to
say? T.8.D.: There are a dozen better ways
of handling that.... K.F.: Build yourself a
pulpit M.G.T.: Basket fodder A.N.D.:
Don’t know where he is, but you can’t pinch
his paddock C. 8.: Have you never heard
of a comma? ... .G.8.D.: We are not amused,
.. .. 8.R.5.: It’s not bad of its kind....
H. : Yes, he makes pleasant light reading,
but it’s a fatal mistake to try to copy him
D.C.: No landing permit for “Migrant”
8.D.C.: Off our beat 8.M.R.: Vague, but
don’t give up 8.V.D.: Quite a few people
feel like that without worrying much afiout it.
••••J.D.R.: Don t want female s.p. bookie on
these premises H.R.S.: Tied a brick round
t j ie G f “Lassiter’s Cat” and drowned it
j n the w.p.b H.F.: Try reading first
L.R.P.: Have to see the yarns first... .H.L.C.:
“Horatius Keeps the Bridge,” and you keep
Horatius... .8.F.5.: Piffle... .N.P.T.: Don’t
actually object to covering letters, but at least
make them shorter than the yarn... .N.R.C.:
Best thing about that “Brook” is that it doesn't
go on for ever... .8.R.D.: Cut and try again,
... .F.G.O’N.: Neat, but it’s been said before.
V.D.R.: Not overjoyed with the prospect
of a dozen more in that vein... .8.D.P.: Idea
not bad....8.R.T.: Managed the first half,
then gave up “The Ghost”... .R.R.P.: Fair
enough, but not for us N.D.P.: Just a
trickle.. . .8.D.L.: Identical prospectors have
been finding identical nuggets in an identical
manner and expiring of an identical complaint
for the past 50 years N.M.F., H.G., L.P.S.,
R.C., D.S.W. and P.E.J.: Send them elsc-
where J.L.C. and P.K.: Thin.
.
to ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)-
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.P.F.: A photograph of that three-legged
freak should earn you a fortune H.H.: Mel-
bourne Cup cartoon much too late this year
and too soon for next J.W.: Miniatures in
faint pencil arc awaiting you under a paper-
weight R.J.0.: In an office guessing com-
petition to determine what it was the Man-
on-the-Land editor took the prize for suggest-
ing a horse. Was he right?.. . .G.T.B. : Pretty,
pretty; find someone with fairy stories need-
ing illustrating G.D.: A brighter gag might
have seen it through... .D.A.S.: You’re still
wandering in a wilderness of cross-hatching.
V.S.: Jockey appears to be passing the
post on a clotheshorse... .S.T.M.: What is
it—an earthquake in a junk store?... .P.L.:
Linework is not bad, but wash is dreadful
V.R.: Caricatures recogmsiible only by their
names... .L.S.L.: Framed it over the strong-
room to frighten burglars away G.8.M.:
Next thing you’ll be making us laugh....
D.T.S.: As a humorous artist you d make a
good roof-painter... .K.D.: Bathing beauty
appears to have been chipped out of granite
with a pneumatic dri11.... L.S.: Have yet to
see a dog run with four legs on the ground
simultaneously... .J.S.: Recognised the cab-
horse gag, but couldn’t distinguish between
horse and cab... .L.C.8.: Airship resembles
an elephant on the wing T.T.G. : Drawing
of five mountainous close-ups looks like a
cloudy sky.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Though the Maoris are popularly sup-
nosed to be a dying race, they showed a
population increase of 0.99 p.c. during
the ten years to April, 1937, whereas
increase of European population was
0.91 p.c. Perhaps the white Maori-
landers are the dying race, though you
would never think it to see them play-
ing football. In 1936 there were 50,304
more white Maorilanders over 60, and
22,100 fewer children under 10, than
there were in 1926. Unfortunately these
tendencies are common to all English-
speaking democracies, and the moral is
that mere preservation of the forms of
democracy is not enough.
* * * *
One Harlow, a wandering American
professor, called at Adelaide the other
day and burbled that “Soviet Russia is
the only consistent and fully-sustained
democracy in the world to-day.” This
was too much for Adelaide, and even
Stalin would be hard put to swallow it.
Anyway, Stalin has been saying that food
is scarce in the towns, and industry in
such a condition that “the country’s
whole economic life is in danger.” He
blames “the callous bureaucratism, negli-
gence, corruption and incompetence of
Communist-party leaders and departmen-
tal heads.”
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: The fall of Hankow and
the flight, of refugees to the ex-British
settlement recall a more or less peaceful
invasion of the area a few years ago.
The Chinese were then demanding the
recession of all leased territories, and
Hankow came in for their attentions.
While negotiations were going on a mob
attempted to enter the settlement. Men
of the British regiment in charge were
ordered to link arms and hold the barrier,
but on no account to shoot. For six hours
they stood firm while howling fanatics
hurled abuse, threw missiles, spat in their
faces and even bit their hands. Eventu-
ally the order came to retire, the troops
formed fours, and the mob rushed in
to take possession of the foreign pale.
China must be regretting its acquisitions
now. With the destruction of Chinese
Shanghai by the Japanese, the blowing-
up of Canton and much of Hankow by
the Chinese themselves, and the indis-
criminate bombing of other towns, there
will soon be nothing left standing in the
Flowery Land save the few neutral areas
that the European Powers refused to re-
linquish to Celestial patriotism.
r * * *
“O.”: “S. M. Herald” announced that
Kipling’s widow “has presented to the
National Library at Canberra the manu-
script of Five Nations, a collection of
poems published in the ‘Times’ in thq
Diamond Jubilee year, 1897, and con-
cluding with the universally-known
‘Recessional.’ Australia,” it is added,
“has a special interest in Five Nations
because it includes a poem, ‘The
Young Queen,’ written to commemorate
Federation.” Somebody seems to have
got very mixed here in his dates and
other things. If Kipling’s Five Nations
had been published in 1897 it could never
have contained “The Young Queen,”
which wasn’t written until November,
1900, when it appeared in the “Times”
and was cabled to Australia perhaps
the first instance of a poem travelling
across the world in this fashion. The
book containing the poem was published,
as far as my memory serves, in 1903. It
is probably the MS. of “The Young
Queen” alone that the poet’s widow has
presented to Canberra. Few writers of
a book of varied poems would leave all
the MSS. behind them.


CHOOSE THE
FOR EVERY
JOB
2
taoum
s/y//
k
-c
i
ALLISCHALMERS
AIA/<£ TIME.. OH THE
TURNS..ON STEEP HILLS
ON THE STRAIGHT AWAY
• •
MODEL
M
Model “M” Crawlers for Sure-footed Traction
goes where you cannot follow it .. . Ideal
moderate-sized Farms, Tank Sinking, etc.
for
ONE Q’LAND OWNER OF 9 “M” TRACTORS STATES:
“For sheer dependability, robust construction and low operating
and maintenance costs the ALLIS CHALMERS ‘M’
TRACTOR is unsurpassed. My Fleet average under one
gallon of fuel per hour on all operations.’'
THE IDEAL TRACTOR FOR
TANK or DAM SINKING.
Headquarters
- House -
CDW4RD SI
BRISBANE
??
N-QBranch
STURTS!
TOWNSVIUE
ENGINEERING Supply C9of AUSTRALIA L™
ONE-THIRD REDUCTION
ON RETURN TICKETS
FOR ALL COUNTRY JOURNEYS
Return Tickets at Single Fare and One-third (minimum
fares 2/8 first class, 2/- second class) will be issued for travel
ANY DAY, BY ANY TRAIN,
between stations in New South Wales, except for journeys
wholly within the Metropolitan or Newcastle Suburban areas.
HOD
A
A DELIGHTFUL ONE-DAY EXCURSION
SYDNEY TO BATHURST
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 27
Special Trains from Sydney, commencing 7.40 a.m.
Four Hours at Bathurst
Picnic Ground, Entertainment, Motor Trips
Return Fares from Sydney (total 298 miles):
Adults, 13/-
Children, four and under 14, 6/6
(Including reserved seat in each direction.)
Reservations may be made now at Sydney, Strathfield and
Rockdale stations, and at Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
W. H. Newman,
Secretary for Railways. (88)
The Pastoral Parson
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
DURING Parramatta’s celebration
of its 150th birthday two early
pastoral pioneers, dead, about a
hundred years, came in for a
good deal of honorable mention. John
Macarthur, who began his sheep-breed-
ing at Elizabeth Farm, just outside the
old town that has recently become a city,
and Sam Marsden, the bluff and burly
Yorkshire ex-blacksmiths striker, who
was very nearly as good a woolgrower
as the turbulent Rum Corps captain,
were much in the historical limelight up
at the head of Port Jackson.
Samuel Marsden, like John Macarthur,
had several sides to his picturesque char-
acter. He was always as ready for a
fight with anyone, from the Governor
down to a female convict, as he was to
spread the gospel among the Maoris or
deal out discipline to the two-legged, leg-
ironed flock that was his other pastoral
charge.
Prison chaplains have often been rough
diamonds, and what isn't typical of the
early-day pastoralist m Sam Marsdcn's
career is very typical of the magisteria
re -tor of a parish which was more or
less felonious, with parishioners w o
were mostly gaolbirds.
The Rev. Samuel Marsden came to
Sydney in the beginning of 1794 as an
assistant colonial chaplain, and when the
principal chaplain, the Rev. Richard
Johnson, went home to England was
given control of all religious affairs in
New South Wales. But he had other jobs
also, being appointed magistrate for the
district of Parramatta and Superinten-
dent of Public Works there and at Toon-
gabbie, where there was a large convict
labor establishment. This meant that
every convict in the district came under
, •
Jus superv • , -
They found the Rev. Samuel a hard
taskmaster. He was not at all squeamish
about employing the cat-o’-nine tails to
accelerate and stimulate their efforts. But
he did not devote all his time and energy
to superintending prisoners—it was not
long before he became a compara-
tively wealthy landowner. Governor
King described him as “the best prac-
tical farmer in the colony,” and
by the end of King’s term of office he
owned nearly 3000 acres of land and
grazed a flock of 1400 sheep on them,
jj e was ab sent on leave during the
g bgb rebellion, but a letter of John Mac-
arthur’s to his wife, written from Lon-
don j n November, 1809, pretty well in-
djcates which side he would have been on
had he been here: “It will not surprise
y OU a t honest Sam Marsden has dis-
played more than his accustomed activity
j n propagating the most diabolical false-
hoods for the purpose of creating favor-
able opinions of the virtues of his friend
Bligh and his party he has blackened
the character of myself and the opponents
of Bligh by the most scandalous reports.”
Macquarie’s policy of “forgive and for-
get” in the case of emancipated convicts
did not appeal to Marsden. He always
opposed it. Nevertheless, he and the
gov,“norra name,i ongood temjjtor
Rev. Samuel much assistance in
b j s Maoriland missionary enterprises,
However? by 1817 they had beco me
mu { uaby hostile. Macquarie believed
that Marsden traduced him in Downing-
street, and drew the attention of the
Colonial Office to the unusual severity
of the punishments inflicted by the Senior
Chaplain in his magisterial capacity.
Marsden certainly was rough. In 1800
he nearly flogged to death an unfortu-
nate, and probably innocent, Irish prisoner
to get him to reveal the whereabouts of
a number of pikes said by an informer
* 0 be concealed somewhere in the neigh-
borhood of Parramatta,
t In 1801 Macquarie dismissed him from
the Bench. Mr. Commissioner Bigge re-
ported that he was “less sensible than
he ought to have been to the impropriety
Q £ com bining operations of a mercantile
na t ure with the duties of his profession.”
Governor Brisbane took him to task for
“his daily neglect of the spiritual con-
cerns of his parish for the sake of attend-
ing to his own multifarious temporal
affairs,” and also dismissed him from the
magistracy, to which he had been restored
on the arrival of Macquarie’s successor.
Earl Bathurst, the Colonial Secretary,
ordered Brisbane to censure the chaplain
privately, and to “intimate to him my ex-
pectation that he will for the future re-
press the vehemence of temper which has
too frequently marked his conduct of
late and which is as little suited to his
age as it is to the profession to which
he belongs.”
One undoubtedly true story of the
Rev. Samuel is worth recalling. Riding
one day to the Hawkesbury, he called at
the farm of an emancipated convict for
whom he had procured a wife from the
Factory, the depot for female prisoners
at Parramatta. How had she turned out?
“Lazy and useless,” said the farmer. So
the redoubtable chaplain called her out
of the hut and gave her a sound thrash-
ing with his riding-whip, telling her she
would get another if he hadn’t a better
report of her conduct when next he
looked in.
A distinctly forthright person and
parson was the Rev. Samuel Marsden,
Senior Chaplain of His Majesty’s Terri-
tory of New South Wales. And a good
sheepbreeder.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Bohemian”: The Maoriland “Edward
Bellamyites,” who model their political
views on the socialism of Looking Back-
ward, are going to ask the Government’s
permission to give Bellamyism a trial on
the Great Barrier Island. They claim
that they can get the present residents
to agree. The island is in Priminister
Savage’s electorate.
* * * *
In sincere flattery of Curtin, Heffron
started a no-confidence debate in
Macquarie-street, Sydney, while the
Curtin affair was petering out. Only
half a dozen Assemblymen heard Heffron
to the end, and he himself was absent
when the vote was taken, the motion be-
ing “defeated on the voices.” Red sup-
port and the coal-strike fiasco have
settled Heffron’s party.
* * * »
“Adelaide”: The King Frederick,
recently at Port Adelaide, has an odd
history. She was one of three vessels
built in China just after the war by the
Hong Kong Dock Co. for a Greek
owner, who called her Trialos. AH
three have been bought by the King
Line, renamed accordingly, and put
under the British flag. The King
Frederick brought bitumen to Australia
and takes wheat back.
# * * *
Consumption of gas and electricity in
Sydney has kept at an extraordinarily
high level this year; the index is de-
cidedly one of those that have not shown
any sign of “recession” so far. Quantity
of power and gas used in August was
the greatest on record. The fifth Test
match was played in August.
“Moleskin Bill”: Re that Parramatta
anniversary (B. 9 /11 / ’3B). Have been look-
ing at a photograph of the procession in
the main street. The middle of the pic-
ture is taken up by a ragged team of half
a dozen steers drawing a wagon on
which are two or three females and a
box or two. The driver was a dream.
He wore a beautiful and recently-blocked
wide-brimmed hat, A.I.F. breeches and
“Hessian” boots-—not “jack” or plain
“knee,” but the “Hessian” our dandies
of the Regency affected. He had a pass-
able whip, but I could see no sign of an
offsider. The fact that the entourage
was passing a pub may have accounted
for that.
* * * *
“Bogantungan”: Of course the an-
nouncement that the Duke of Kent is to
be G.-G. has flooded the English news-
papers with particulars of this country,
correct and otherwise. One of the other-
wise deals with the persistent nuisance
caused to golfers by snakes, which have
“to be flayed with mashies.” Such mis-
leading tripe should not be allowed to
circulate. Everyone knows that since
the decline in the price of wool snake-
skin has come into keen demand, with
the result that serpents are rigidly pro-
tected. Since they may not be slain, save
in the National Abattoirs at Homebush,
every golfer carries in his bag an abori-
ginal musical instrument known as a
didgeridoo. When a snake is seen the
caddie immediately grabs the didgeridoo
and plays the opening bars of Rubin-
stein’s Melody in F or some other minor
measure. Snakes are notoriously averse
to the minor key, and after a few notes
they take flight into the waratah thickets.


THE OHTER
FELLOWS
MIND.
The First Prize of £3/3/- offered for this week’s Other Fellow’s Mind Competition
has been awarded to a Victorian for a simple statement of an arresting fact.
Every week there is a first prize of £3/3/-, in addition to A.J.A. rates paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be
an additional prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster. Applicants will be
judged on their contributions to these pages, so they should keep their cuttings.
The quarterly prizes of £lO will not necessarily be awarded to winners of weekly
prizes. All contributions published during the quarter will be carefully considered
again.
A New Literature
The Melbourne Sales Tax Office
features a notice —displayed above the
counter —as follows:
Official Publications for Sale.
Federal Income Tax Explanatory
Handbook 7s. 6d.
Federal Income Tax Depreciation
Booklet 6d.
Board of Review Decisions, per
volume 3s. od,.
Ready Reckoner 3s. Od.
Sales Tax Law, 1930-35 15s. Od.
Sales Tax Law Supplement, 1937 .. 12s. Od.
Sales Tax Law Supplemenl, 1938 .. 13s. 6d.
Acts, Regulations, Commissioner’s
Sales Tax Rulings and Income Tax
Orders Various Prices
Australia’s first industry is developing an
extensive literature of its own. —F. L.
-Fitzpatrick (Vic.).
Three guineas, plus 2 Id. a line, for the
writer of the foregoing. It came from
a Melbourne suburb, and Mr. Fitzpatrick
is requested to send his full address.
*
Outworn Nicknames
City-bred Australians still refer to
Australians from the backblocks as “hay-
seeds,” “bushwhackers,” “yobs,” etc.
The advent of cars and radio pushed
the country-dweller far ahead of the Dad,
Dave and Mother of “Steele Rudd’s”
enjoyable “Selection” yarns. The average
farmer of to-day is as shrewd and alert
as the businessman-about-town, and his
daughter can dress up to style when she
likes. Why the legend of their dullness
and ignorance persists is a mystery to me.
Perhaps it’s just a harmless habit, but
those ugly names do sometimes express
contempt. Anyway, their use will never
help to bridge the gulf of social distinc-
tion which lies between those who culti-
vate the soil and those who enjoy the
fruits of cultivation.— Arthur Falk
(Vic.). _
Augmenting Artesian Supplies
I believe that the artesian supplies of
Central Queensland could be consider-
ably augmented by the destruction of the
worthless timber on the “desert” intake
area stretching from the Drummond
Range to the Downs. This would still
leave the country nicely shaded with use-
ful timber and edible-fodder trees, and
would increase the sheep population by
some three or four millions and the
human population by a considerable
number. As for building dams and
digging tunnels into the ground, Nature
has already made tunnels in the “col-
ander” country which swallow whole
creeks and flats of water through holes
in the ground. Such country abounds in
the wilderness or so-called “desert”
country of the central districts. —J. R.
Lewis (Q.).
Our National Spirit
Some of Australia’s politicians, leader-
writers and other wise men have appar-
ently been endeavoring to convince Aus-
tralians that they have lost their former
national spirit and energy. They even
argue that our Australian patriotism was
created by a war, and that it could very
well be re-created by another.
The truth is that Australia did not lack
national-minded men before the war any
more than it does now.
Most of us love our country, and have
a pride in its achievements as well as a
readiness to defend it, whether we are
conscious of it or not. Have we no
“national spirit” simply because we don’t
shriek against “Fascism,” and refuse to
grow warlike on any flimsy excuse? Are
we wanting in “national energy” because
our Government (the poor best of the
choice offered' us) has not the enthusi-
asm found with freshness, or any quality
making it a national rather than a bob-
bing and shifting political body? We
have no statesmen because we have too
many able politicians. Australia’s head,
not its heart, needs a tonic. Axe
(F. C. T.). ’
Mobilise Once a Year
I have talked with many young fellows
about joining the militia, and their im-
pressions of military service are, in many
cases, surprising. If they are ever called
up they will be shocked and astounded
at the way they will have to live, eat,
work and soldier generally. The people
left behind will find that a situation
amounting nearly to chaos will result if
all men have suddenly to be called to the
colors.
I think that the most effective way
of bringing home the benefits of peace
would be to mobilise all men and re-
sources for one week a year. The dis-
comfort and upset would cure quite a lot
of the bellicosity of the fire-eaters, and
the training would be of immense value
in an emergency.— Admiral (Q.).
Plea for Honest Doubt
May the gods preserve me from every-
one who knows something or believes
in anything fanatically! This prayer has
become more urgent during the last two
months, when I have heard and read more
stupid nonsense than ever before. I
know Australia has been suffering, too,
with every Tom, Dick and Harry know-
ing (from the “Daily Screamers,” of
course) exactly what was happening in
Europe and what we should do to the
“Huns.”
But, in addition, we in Maoriland have
been having an election. In the papers,
over the air and at every street corner
the inanities of those who know have
been shrieked at us. We have had to
listen to the dogmatic assertions of
people who know that all Nationalists
are bloodsucking capitalists and all
Laborites saviors, or that Laborites are
low-class Communists and Nationalists
pure altruists.
Probably most people decide first of
all from which party they stand to gain
most. They then lap up every argument
and stupid rumor that bolsters their self-
interest. Reason counts for little. I
opine that not 1 p.c. of those who
solemnly voted did so with disinterested
rational thought of the country’s wel-
fare. An even smaller proportion would
vote with any judicious doubt as to
whether or not they were making fools
of themselves. They knew.
Let people want to believe, and they
will do so fanatically, without any of
the intelligent scepticism that alone can
protect them from the suggestion of
emotionalism. All told, it is not difficult
to understand the drawing-power of an
Aimee McPherson or a Colin Scrim-
geour of the “Friendly Road.” — Here-
taunga (Maoriland).
Moneylending Philanthropists
Picking up a newspaper one cannot
but be astonished at the number of phi-
lanthropists that are repeatedly offering
to lend a working man any amount up
to £lO without security.
The radio is also continually blaring
out tempting invitations to take advan-
tage of a loan easily repaid, and enact-
ing dramas about little Winifred’s par-
ents, who, by consulting a certain finan-
cier, were able to start her on her career
to fame, or how Jack Brown and his
wife with six starving kids were saved
from being cast homeless and penniless
into the crool, crool world.
Wages that are relatively low com-
pared with high living costs have forced
struggling families to resort to a loan,
which very often they are repaying for
years. Many worried wives dare not tell
their husbands the extent to which they
have become involved with a money-
lender.
As a first step towards combating the
tendency towards usury the Government
should fix maximum interest rates and
make it obligatory to have the joint sig-
nature of husband and wife to loan
agreements. — Peter Piper (N.S.W.).
Strange Bedfellows
The queerest thing of all about these
shrieks for alliance with Soviet Russia
and Red Spain is that many of them come
from God-fearing people.
Russia’s official “religion” is atheistic
Communism. To put it plainly, Russia
is anti-God, so that the future genera-
tion may be “good” atheists. While the
Reds had control in Spain, hundreds of
churches were destroyed and many re-
ligious people tortured and killed.
In spite of this, the cries for action
against Franco’s nationalists go on. And
bishops attend meetings of the Society
for Cultural Relations with Russia. —
J. E. Ryan (N.S.W.).
Teach First-aid
Nowadays every school-teacher must,
at least, be on bowing terms with the
principles of first-aid. If it is good
enough for the teacher, why not pass it
on to the pupil?
A street accident resulting in several
casualties, and in which nobody knows
what to do, is all too common in our
cities.
In the past, numerous lives would have
been saved and much suffering avoided
if more people had been familiar with
first-aid.
Why not make it a compulsory subject
in every school? It could well be sub-
stituted for some of the useless subjects
that are taught at present. The average
schoolboy is conversant with the in-
ternal parts of a motor-car, but is en-
tirely ignorant concerning his own body.
A knowledge of first-aid will remedy
this ; in addition, it would be of inestim-
able value in the event of sickness or an
accident.
If the subject were included in the cur-
riculum, the nation’s health could not
but benefit from the adoption.—A. Daly
(S.A.).
Radio Announcers* Pronunciation
An irritating and unnecessary fault ap-
pears quite commonly in Australian
broadcasts.
It is the inability of announcers to
pronounce the names of well-known
towns in N. S. Wales. I wonder if other
States are similarly afflicted. This fault
appears mostly in announcing rainfalls
and heights of rivers.
At first these stumbling errors are
humorous, but frequent repetition be-
comes annoying, and prompts the thought
that a little study or inquiry on the part
of these gentlemen would not go amiss,
especially as their voices are heard all
over the land, and in many cases quoted
as an authority.
Common errors include Canowindra,
Mungindi, Barraba, Murwillumbah, etc.
—Condobolin (N.S.W.).
Home-consumption Standards
A. Wood (B. 2/11/’3B) may be half-
right, but in a country which, by means
of tariffs, creates an artificial price for
its secondary products, an equivalent
method of creating a price for primary
products (other than that fixed by world
parity) is imperative—that is, if the land
men are to have a standard of living
which will enable them to buy the manu-
factured goods.
When a surplus of any commodity
exists the surplus has to be exported. If
that surplus is sent to a market where
the consumers are on a lower standard
of living than Australians, then the price
is necessarily lower than the Australian
price. Since Australians cannot com-
pete on equal terms with cheaply-pro-
duced foreign products, the Australian
community is expected to contribute
towards the cost of exporting the sur-
plus, either by way of an increased local
price or by bounty. It might not be
economics, but at least it is compara-
tively equitable.
As far as quality is concerned, Aus-
tralia must export on a basis of com-
petitive quality as well as competitive
price. Since every country exports its
highest quality, Australia must do like-
wise—as a result local quality is not
always up to export standard. It is to be
regretted, but it cannot be overcome —
farmers don’t deliberately produce an in-
ferior product for local consumption. —
Egg Farmer (N.S.W.).
Charity Begins at Home
It is difficult to understand the men-
tality of people who wish to send large
sums of money to Spain. The time has
come when these collectors should be
given to understand that no more Aus-
tralian money is available for such a pur-
pose. One collector proudly informed
me that W.A. had already bought one
ambulance for Spain, and that they
hoped to supply another in the near
future.
These enthusiasts, or fanatics, seem to
entirely disregard the existence of many
organisations throughout the Common-
wealth which depend to a great extent
upon public contributions. To mention
only one worthy cause, the A.I.M.
Aerial Ambulance Service —probably the
greatest organisation of its kind in the
world —is in need of funds for the pur-
chase and installation of more trans-
ceivers. When this was pointed out to
one collector the answer was typical of
their outlook—“ Let the Government take
care of that.”— Mike (W.A.).
Emergency Power Supply
Cables lately gave some details of the
design of a bombproof power-station in
England. Similar schemes, I believe, exist
in Germany. It can hardly be too soon or
too repetitive to draw attention again to
the necessity of, at least, beginning to
think of such a form of defence in Aus-
tralia. If it was not for the protection
given by distance, this country is possibly
the worst-placed in the world in this
regard. If distance ceased to protect, as
it probably will in the near future, our
widely flung, centrally supplied systems,
scattered disconnectedly over our big
areas, could be very easily dislocated,
and great confusion would follow.
We can hardly hope to rival the
United States, which has already had
dress rehearsals in this sort of thing
prompted by floods. During one flood
in the Ohio Valley, in June, 1937, a
50,000-h.p. plant was inundated, but
interconnection from other stations gave
every consumer who wasn’t flooded also
all the power he wanted. In another
case a 112,000-h.p. plant (in Virginia) was
flooded out for a week. Meantime cus-
tomers were unaffected, being supplied
from other stations which could join up.
Here such extensive interconnection
would be a big problem, but it seems
that it may be worth while, in addition
to trying to protect our stations, to in-
vestigate some form of State and inter-
state interconnections which would com-
bine country electrification and defence.
There are some remote parts which can-
not afford power lines. If join-up lines
for military purposes had to go through
some of these parts it might make power
supply to them possible. We are about
to spend huge sums in defence if we
can do something generally useful at the
same time so much the better. —F. M. C.
(Tas.). _
Women and Wool
Many of the arguments put forward
by women against the wearing of woollen
undergarments —that of being “bulky,”
for instance —may be thrust aside as of
no account. But two reasons advanced,
expense and laundering, cannot be dealt
with so easily.
Fine woollen lingerie is costly, and to
get the worth of the outlay the washing
of it must be carefully attended to.
Women working the whole week
who do their own washing have only
week-ends for drying purposes, and
woollens should be laundered on a satis-
factory day for good results to be ob-
tained. Thus, definitely, for female
workers, who rightly want their week-
ends free for enjoyment, woollen under-
wear is off the market.
Many leisured women, otherwise
patriotic where woollen garments are
concerned, refuse to patronise woollen
stockings. Here again “appearance” is
quoted.
One representative of a firm said:
“There is no demand for woollen stock-
ings. It is my opinion that it is only
when a woman is dying on her feet that
she will mar her appearance by wearing
them.”
I fail to see that point. An ankle is
slender or otherwise no matter how
covered.
Perhaps the manufacturers might do
something about it. Self or contrasting
“clocks” or such unobtrusive ornamenta-
tion could be utilised, or a publicity;


campaign conducted, with, as keynote,
the subtle suggestion that only women
with graceful legs dare wear woollen
stockings.
However it goes, “to wear or not to
wear,” I am prepared to be an indepen-
dent party of one and maintain stub-
bornly that no smart woman is correctly
dressed if, with a heavy topcoat, she does
not don woollen stockings. —A. M. M.
(N.S.W.).
Not Fair to the Duke
The columns of slush appearing in the
Flapper Press throughout Australia con-
cerning the “Royal Duke and his Beauti-
ful Princess” must nauseate intelligent
Australians and tend to create an unfair
prejudice against the persons eulogised.
This result is, I admit, not rational, but
it is a tendency in human nature to feel
a prejudice against a person unduly slob-
bered over.
The Duke is a fine, handsome, whole-
some young Englishman without any pre-
tensions to intellectual eminence, a type
of which happily there are many thou-
sands on whom no newspaper eulogy is
expended. His wife is apparently a
charming little lady of mixed European
nationality, who has made herself very
popular in Britain.
To talk of these young people coming
to this country as “lifting Australia to
pre-eminence among the nations of the
Empire” is pure rubbish. Australia
stands on its own feet, and its position in
the world is not affected by the fact of
its Governor being a Royal Duke or
a Jewish lawyer.— Arthur Griffith
(N.S.W.).
“Freedom of the Press”
“M.K.” (B. 2/11 /’3B) points the wrong
moral from the events of the last few
months —the true moral is that we should
strongly oppose any attempt to further
muzzle our press or radio.
It is my opinion, based on sources not
confined to daily newspapers, that our
press did not materially mislead us. But
in any event I do not think the Austra-
lian public is so credulous and liable to
panic that it must receive its news in the
form of pre-digested pap produced by
some Governmental wet-nurse.
A friend who was in Germany on busi-
mess for some weeks prior to the crisis
says that during his stay the German
people had no idea that war clouds were
gathering. The German press and radio
news suppressed all mention of the posi-
tion in other countries, and was confined
to anti-Czech propaganda. A chance
meeting with a newly-arrived American
acquaintance a few days prior to the
Munich agreement put my friend wise to
the situation, and he caught the next
’plane to Paris. The Fiihrer had been
playing his cards without their consent
or even knowledge.
This state of affairs would doubtless be
applauded by “M.K.,” but if this country
is ever involved in war I for one want to
know what it is all about. I do not pro-
pose to be pushed blindfolded into the
firing line by any blundering bureaucrat
who might be then reigning king of Can-
berra. —A. H. Robinson (Vic.).
Mail Tenders
The practice of calling tenders where
large sums are involved, as, for instance,
in bridge- or road-building jobs, may be
all right. But where smaller sums are in
question for mail-carrying, sand-carting,
haulage of timber, etc., it is all wrong.
The poor man is never given a chance.
The chap who tries to make a living
with a lorry and his hands goes under
nine cases out of ten. A man with a few
big boys can afford to do it for prac-
tically no profit, as it is only a sideline
or cost-reducer to him.
The tendering for outlying mail car-
riage outback is a recognised disgrace.
Under this system mails are often car-
ried at a loss for the Government, and
the poor boundary-rider is charged Is.
for a loaf of bread so that the mailman
can make up out of the cartage.
The square boss, and the one who gets
best results, is the man who asks for a
job to be done and pays a fair price
when it is finished. —R. Austin (Q.).
Compulsory Training
It’s pretty obvious that if there is a
war in which we Australians are in-
volved there won’t be the question
“Will you go?” There will be no choice ;
conscription will be inevitable. I’ll have
to go, and John Smith and Tom Brown
and every available bit of man-power we
can muster. We’ll all go.
Personally, I’m 25. I haven't done a
day’s military training; I’ve never used
a military rifle in my life. And those
fellows John Smith and Tom Brown are
the same. If (and when) war comes we
won’t be given any warning. Our enemy
won’t say, “Go into training. We’re
going to attack Australia next year. Get
ready.’’ So we three are going to be
great assets in the army, aren’t we?
Of course there’s no reason why I
shouldn’t join the volunteers now. Un-
doubtedly it is my duty to do so. But
Smith and Brown (and the rest) haven’t
joined up, have they? Why should I,
and what difference would my little con-
tribution make anyway? Aren’t my
week-ends fully occupied already—just
as are those other fellows’? Much less
trouble to play golf, go to the races, or
spend Saturday afternoon in the bar, as
Brown always does.
So we three, upon whom Australia
must depend in emergency, forego military
training because to do so is the easiest
course to take. Myself, I continue every
Saturday to improve my golf, and Smith
is becoming psychic almost in his ability
to “pick ’em” for Randwick. But that’s
not going to help much in a crisis, is it?
Smith, Brown and myself are repre-
sentative of thousands of men. There is
a job to be done, a country to safeguard,
but we’re not taking the onus on our own
shoulders. And this is the point: We’ll
continue to shove responsibility on to
the willing few until we’re compelled to
do otherwise; until the law of this coun-
try makes us train for defence.
That’s my argument for compulsory
military training.— Matmed (Q.).
Lavish Endearments
“Dears” and “darlings” are lavishly
used these days, and it seems the accepted
thing for people to ask “Where is Pitt-
street, dear?” and such questions,
although the person confronted may be
a perfect stranger.
I think this is unnecessary and most
unattractive, and fosters a carelessness
and familiarity of manner which is far
from admirable. — Fieldash (N.S.W.).
Government Reform
How about changing the system to
elect the Government? Here is a very
rough outline: Why not, instead of vot-
ing for a party, vote for a policy on a
referendum basis? A general policy on
the main vital questions could be formu-
lated by both sides, just as it is at
present, and a simple majority would
determine which view should prevail.
A Cabinet consisting of a small num-
ber of practical, mature-minded men of
proved ability in their vocations (profes-
sors and theorists barred!) in each
sphere. Pooling of the salaries of the
hundreds of politicians thus eliminated
would enable salaries to be paid which
would attract such men, a necessary
qualification being that they should be
Australian-born and domiciled here.
The English Parliamentary system of
separate electorates originated when each
district had very varied interests and the
horse was the chief means of communi-
cation and transport; but why stick to
an outworn system, especially as repre-
sentatives now vote strictly on a party
basis, thereby confessing their vote (and
themselves) unnecessary?
This would not be dictatorship by any
means, but a much more efficient and
less expensive way of carrying on what
is being dope at present; and public
opinion would be just as much a safe-
guard against any unwarrantable action
as it is now. And, of course, it follows
that all questions of national importance
should be taken out of the hands of
State Parliaments and the latter reduced
to the status of local councils. —J. N.
Rookledge (N.S.W.).
Scaremongers and Pessimists
We read daily of the opinions of the
“great thinkers” of the day. “Civilisa-
tion is doomed,” “British Empire is
doomed,” “Europe’s Unprecedented State
of War Preparations,” are a few of the
very many newspaper headings that have
appeared recently.
But didn’t the Puke of Wellington,
upon his deathbed, confess that he was
glad that he was not to live to witness
the fall of England, which was to come
in the near future? Nor was he the only
one. History is full of such predictions.
An article which appeared in the Lon-
don “Chronicle” as far back as 1744
asserted that Europe had become “an
immense republic of armed men ; every
country carries such a military appear-
ance that the whole seems armed for the
destruction of the rest of the world
To a philosopher who reflects on the
miseries of human life alone, this appears
very dreadful.”
But the world was not destroyed and
civilisation still progressed towards its
distant goal. Is it not time that news-
papers and scholars, profiting by these
idiotic prophecies of writers, thinkers and
soldiers of the past, assumed a more
cheerful —and truthful —attitude to the
future? —F. B. Oakey (S.A.).
The Toorak Accent
Are other Australian cities inflicted
with an accent corresponding to the
“Toorak accent” of Melbourne’s social
suburb? Having heard the speech of the
royal family and prominent politicians of
England, surely Toorak does not still
imagine its accent is English? Will the
Kents grasp the meaning of “Hoe do
yor door?” when introduced, and will
they realise that a “roand” object is
round?
Perhaps they will think it is pure abo-
riginal.
As befits our climate and our grand
country, the Australian manner of speech
and expression is an easy and comfort-
able one. Why spoil it with something
so completely artificial? — Clothilde
(Vic.).
Where Are They?
On a par with the asinine utterance of
an age-enfeebled mind that the youth of
to-day is not as good as the youth of
yesterday is the oft-quoted expression
“She’s a fine girl; make a man a good
wife, Not like the silly creatures you
see too often nowadays.”
Who are these silly creatures? Where
do they go? For the expression is only
used to describe young girls. Surely Jt
does not refer to the girls returning from
some place of amusement, happily laugh-
ing and singing. Happiness is not silly.
Every day in every city, town, suburb
or village, men and women are marry-
ing. These women must be the silly
creatures, and the men will soon regret
the step they are taking.
See them in a few years’ time. They
will have families then, and the country
will be proud of them.
Then where are these silly creatures?
In the brains of the crabby old fogies
who, finding that youth is leaving them,
rather than admit that they would gladly
change places decry the very actions they
would gladly perform.—W. H. W.
(N.S.W.).
Bachelor Tax
I am tired of reading articles like
“R.G.P.’s” in B. 26/10/’3B. Why should
a single man over 35 be taxed extra?
Many such men support aged parents or
single sisters. And married people with
one child; why should they have more
than one child if that is all they can
fairly have and give it a reasonable
education and start in life?
How would “R.G.P.” (say with one
child) care to work alongside a mate
doing the identical job and receive, say,
£lOO less per year because his mate had
four or five more children than he?
It would lead to discontent. Besides there
are people born lazy who would rather
breed indiscriminately for the bonus of
£25 per child than work, and if they had
eight children they would earn far more
by bonuses than ever likely in wages.
Taking all in all, the size of a family
is for the parents to decide, not the
State. —M. J. Locksley (S.A.).
Scrap G.P.S. Preference
As in England (but there they’ve
always had class snobbishness) there’s an
undesirable preference for G.P.S. men in
every trade and profession, and in every
arm of Australia’s defence programme —
even as cadet laborers. Some ex-G.P.S.
lads are well worth their salt, but I have
found far too many with “social” lean-
ings at an age when they should be more
interested in hard work, and others pre-
occupied with their own adolescent self-
importance, and lacking in the true spirit
of goodfellowship.
What’s wrong with the State-school
man? Has his accumulation of know-
ledge been soiled because of financial
struggles? Or is it the old, old story
that this barrier is raised because State-
school education is provided free and
the G.P.S. is bought with parents’ money?
Scrap G.P.S. preference and give all
an even chance. Then the State-school
man won’t be left behind if it’s brain or
man-power Australia wants. —S. S. (Q.).
Farmers and Farmhands
In nearly every paper these days one
reads protests against the low wages of
farmhands, but no one seems to look
at the farmer’s side of the question. It
is true the wages are too low.
In this district (Stanthorpe, Q.) our
chief crops are peas, beans, tomatoes and
fruit. The freight on a ton of peas or
beans from Stanthorpe to Brisbane is
30s. Added to that there is the cost of
seed, fertiliser, spraying materials, bags
and cases, and labor. Often our produce
sells for 2s. a bushel, sometimes less;
sometimes it is dumped. It would seem
that there must be something wrong
with the working of the Queensland Rail-
way Department if it is necessary to
charge such high freight rates for such
a short distance.
As to the living costs, I suppose some
will say, “Why not send to Brisbane for
supplies?” But the country storekeepers
must live as well as other folks; also,
unless one is able to buy about £5O worth
of goods at a time so that he can travel
by the classified freight-rates, the saving
in cost of purchase is eaten up by freight
charges.
As to the labor question, a good deal
of it here is done by the farmers’ wives
and children; that is, picking and pack-
ing. In plain English, that means un-
paid labor. If we could be assured of a
steady and reasonable price for our pro-
duce we could employ many more men
at better wages than they now get in-
stead of working our children for more
hours than any child should work
Cocky’s Wife (Q.).
Holidays for All
“The 0.D.” is right (B. 2/11/’3B). Aus-
tralians should have the opportunity of
touring their continent cheaply and ex-
tensively. As a preliminary step, I sug-
gest that all our patriotic politicians sur-
render their gold passes, to be distributed
by an appointed committee to impecu-
nious families whose previous taste of
travel has been an infrequent excursion
to the seaside.
Secondly, it is time the manufacturing
of automobiles was commenced in this
country and a light car placed within
reach of the family man’s purse.
There is nothing healthier than a vaca-
tion spent camping out in the peaceful,
refreshing atmosphere of the Australian
bush; and many, families risk a long
country trip in ancient and second-hand
hooded death-traps that are a menace to
their own and others’ safety.
No expense should be too great to give
every Australian a travelling holiday at
least once a year.—Peter Piper
(N.S.W.).
Sex Equality
Whilst women in the cities make the
welkin ring with their cries for “sex
equality,” and whilst column upon
column of the press is devoted to this
subject, the women of the bush are giving
a splendid example of service to their
menfolk. Not for these women of the
outback the beauty parlors, the theatres,
the cinemas or any of the false attrac-
tions that give the city-dwellers their
exaggerated sense of importance.
Despite the many movements and in-
stitutions incorporated with the idea of
improving female standards, the fact re-
mains that a woman is still a woman,
and, if to herself she be honest, then
she must admit her dependence on the
male of the species.
It would be well if these imaginary
pictures and sex delusions were treated
logically and on strict fact; then woman-
kind in general would understand that,
for all their romantic ideas, women are
still the weaker sex, and those in the cities
might well profit by the examples and
lessons shown them by their staunch-
hearted sisters of the outback. — Reg. W.
Gaskin (Q.). t
Dealing with Crime
In the States curative treatment of
delinquents through gaols is looked on as
necessary. But prevention is cheaper than
cure, especially so when the prevention
may be made reproductive. Epitomised,
the solution of most delinquency is ob-
tainable through employment, and em-
ployment returns dividends to the
States. There seems to be no branch of
research regarding “criminal elimina-
tion,” and a Commonwealth Bureau
might do a good job if it established a
scheme of this variety.
The question is not whether we can
afford the expenditure, but whether we
can afford not to do something. Patho-
logical treatment may be required, or it
may not, if sufficient employment be
made available. The occupation of the
body and the mind naturally tend to
eliminate those thoughts which obtrude
in the mind regarding the supposed bene-
fits of getting one’s hands firmly placed
on a neighbor’s goods.— Quercus (W.A.).


9
f
DEFT NAHM
Fof Constipation Leads
to Endless Trouble
Nature has decreed that the Bowels shall
operate regularly —at least once a day.
Defiance or neglect of this law leads to many
kinds of suffering, including Headaches, Bad
Breath, Biliousness, Indigestion, Pimples, etc.
Constipation also makes you look and
feel dull, bad tempered and livery.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
proved remedy for regulating the Bowels
and restoring the system to proper working
order in a thorough yet gentle manner.
A course will convince.
Dr. Morses
i
m
M
a
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
jhaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
lymptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
??
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
GIVE AUSTRALIAN BOOKS FOR XMA
A STOCKTAKING BARGAIN
ORIGINALLY PRICED AT 5/- & 6/- EACH
NOW ANY FOUR FOR 5/-
Giving Amber Her Chance
The World Is Yours
Stories by “Kodak”
Pearls of Papua
Blue North
Jungfrau
Karangi
&
O*
0^
V 1
<l-:
0*
£
cs>- W**® v
0°
* «■#>
>,V'
o*
••' , ** S*V
..•• <$ vo •v^V*-
.••'' C^,^>'b«‘ c >'-'’ 0


The Finest MANTEL RADIO
EVER OFFERED IN AUSTRALIA!
:■
; ■
n
y:>
m
im
8
*
"WHS
m
mt
■
V-
The BRITON
“THEATRETTE”
In the "THEATRETTE," Briton Radio have produced a
new design that is entirely unique. This design is
fashioned after the proscenium of a theatre and will add
an unusual smartness to whatever room it graces.
• The “THEATRETTE” is but five inches in depth and
is therefore truly a MANTEL model. Imagine its com-
pactness ... a depth equal to the width of an ordinary
novel.
• The “THEATRETTE” is a radio engineering triumph,
for, whilst achieving the compactness of the “THEA-
TRETTE,” the Briton engineers have maintained all the
essentials of the console models. A full Bin. console-sized
speaker is incorporated. This is a revolutionary advance
in mantel radios.
® The “THEATRETTE” has NO chassis. This remark-
ably-designed set has all component parts mounted
direct on the bakelite cabinet, eliminating unnecessary
weight, thus enabling this model to be much more easily
handled. Among the “THEATRETTE” models, there are
both broadcast and dual-wave receivers.
FOR COUNTRY LISTENERS.
For country listeners the “THEATRETTE” battery-operated model
is available. This is highly powered, gives excellent reception and is
specially designed to provide ECONOMICAL operation.
to
Messrs. BRITON ELECTRICAL & RADIO PTY.. LTD..
152-156 PARRAMATTA ROAD, PETERSHAM. N.S.W.
KINDLY SEND ME FULL
PARTICULARS OF YOUR
SPECIAL OFFER
ON THIS UNIQUE RADIO
NAME
ADDRESS
NOTE—THIS COUPON MUST BE
ATTACHED WHEN SENDING FOR
PARTICULARS.
BRITON ELECTRICAL AND RADIO PTY. LTD.
152-156 PARRAMATTA ROAD, PETERSHAM, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
