

FREE CREDIT ROND
WHAT IT 15... HOW YOU OBTAIN IT
...WHAT YOU GAN DO WITH IT
Highgates Credit Bond is a parchment document
presented free of charge to every Highgates
customer.
It enables you to buy out-of-income at Highgates
bedrock cash prices free of interest and all other
extra charges.
It costs you nothing to secure a Highgates
Credit Eond. . . . All you do is to register your
name and address and you can make your
purchases on it at once. Nothing could be easier.
Highgates Credit Bond is issued in amounts of
£l, £2. £3, £4. £5. £7. £lO. £l5. £2O.
For all your purchases, you simply pay a shilling
in the pound weekly on the value of your Credit
Bond. For example, if a Credit Bond for £3 is
sufficient for you, all you pay is 3/- weekly, and
so on.
There's no bothering about "Lay-by" with
Highgates Credit Bond—you take your purchases
home with you immediately. Mutual trust and
confidence are the foundation stones of
Highgates.
You carry your Credit Bond in your handbag
or in your pocket when you go to Highgates to
buy and your purchases and payments are
entered on it. You always know how much you
have spent and what your balance is.
As a Highgates Bondholder, YOU ARE NOT
CHARGED INTEREST AND YOU PAY NO
DEPOSIT. Highgates credit is FREE credit 1
You can buy your Furnishings and Manchester
goods at Highgates and pay for them out-of-
income weekly without interest.
Very soon, you will be able to purchase ALL
your requirements on a Highgates Credit Bond
when Highgates general merchandise stores are
opened. One of these is now under construction
at 332-336 Pitt Street, Sydney (near Liverpool
Street), and another is at Hurstville watch for
opening announcements.
Highgates Furniture and Furnishings Warehouse
is located at 257 Clarence Street, and on orders
of over £5, you can pay out-of-income over a
period of 52 weeks entirely free of interest.
On general Furnishing orders of £2O and over,
you are entitled to Highgates FREE LIFE
ASSURANCE POLICY, and in the event of the
death of the customer, if he or sh£ is the bread-
winner of the family, Highgates cancel all
future payments and pass the ownership of the
goods over to the next-of-kin without further
charge. The only condition is that the payments
have been regularly maintained. Fire insurance
also is free 1
You can apply for your Credit Bond at any time.
Just fill in the Request Form below and post it
to us or ring Mr. Miller at MJ 4691 and he will
send a Special Representative to explain
Highgates Credit System.
Highgates New Credit System—invented in Australia and
copyrighted throughout the British Empire, is the easiest,
fairest, cheapest and best Credit System in the world.
ft I
| ro‘li 0 ‘li
,'• ' : ::
55?
1
sfigs*
r'~;
v w£&&gom
: eg%*
V» 'ZzS&i.'SS*
l\\i !SJS*'•”" “"
To Highgates Limited,
I wish to obtain a Highgates Credit Bond for £
Name in full ...
(State Amount)
(State whether Mr., Mrs. or M/ss. and give Christian names)
Address in full.
Nearest Post Office Occupation
Usual Signature: Date
-f/iefhqciielL
CREDIT /CHAIN /STORES OF AUSTRALIA
FURNISHING WAREHOUSE AND ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES:
257 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY (Between Sydney
Town Hall & Market St.). Telephones: MJ 4691 (6 lines),
Telegrams: "Highgates-Sydney". Box 14a, G.P.0., Sydney.
The Bulletin
VoL 59.—N0. 3030.
Wednesday, March 9, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, •N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to: —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Short-Story Competition
Winners of
“The Bulletin’s” Prizes.
First Prize (£3O), “Mail-run East,”
by Gavin S. Casey, 21 Lawler-
street, South Perth (W.A. )•
Second Prize (£l5), “Quiet Lies
the Land,” by E. Mary Gurney,
Cockle Bay-road, Auckland
(M.L.).
Third Prize (£5), “Angel,” by Steve
Bennett, 66 Homebush-road,
Strathfield (N.S.W.).
Brief Story Prize (£5), “Five Silver
Pieces,” by E. Dithmack, The
Ranch, via Boonah (Q.).
TOTAL ENTRIES, 973.
The Red Page
SHORT-STORY COMPETITION.
Results published on this page are of The
Bulletin section of the remarkably successful short-
story competition run in conjunction with the Aus-
tralian film producers, Cinesound Productions.
The prize-winning stories, together with a swag
of others selected for publication and others still
which appealed to the judges as possible film material,
will now be sent to Cinesound to compete for its
prize of £100 offered for a yarn that could be made
into a good film. Rejected MSS. will be returned, if
stamps accompanied them, after Cinesound announces
its decision.
As the addresses of the four Bulletin winners
indicate, entries represented writing effort in all parts
of the Commonwealth and Maoriland. Practical
encouragement of that effort is the main idea in these
literary competitions which The Bulletin runs from
time to time. In this respect the just-judged short-
story competition is supplementary to the annual
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize competition, which is
usually restricted, as it is this year, to novels. The
Prior Prize competition closes annually on June 6,
and this year’s award will be £200. That is apart
from what the author may make out of the publica-
tion of the winner in book form and of payment for
serial rights.
Extra payment, of course, also goes along with
the short-story competition prizes. The prize-winners
are bought at ruling Bulletin short-story rates, and
the same rates are paid for all entries accepted for
publication. In short, The Bulletin counters the
increasing use of cheap syndicated matter in Aus-
tralian journals by sticking to its policy of publishing
only original work by writers in Australia, M.L. and
hereabouts, with these literary competitions, as stated,
by way of additional encouragement.
Of this latest short-story competition prize-
winners, the third-prize story—“Angel,” by Steve
Bennett —has already been published (B. 19 /1 / ’38);
so has the brief-story prize-winner—“Five Silver
Pieces,” by E. Dithmack —printed in the January 5
issue.
The first-prize winner—Gavin S. Casey’s “Mail-
run East” —will be published in next week’s Bulletin.
“Quiet Lies the Land,” by E. Mary Gurney, will
appear a week later.
Gavin S. Casey is, of course, well known to
Bulletin readers. His “Short-shift Saturday,” pub-
lished in the last Christmas number, was the finest
short story written in Australia for years. As he made
clear in that story and others appearing from time to
time in The Bulletin, and as he proves again very
soundly in his prize-winning story in this competition,
Casey is in touch with life ; his characters live and
their surroundings are clearly authentic. He is pictur-
ing the Australian scene as he knows it, and it and
its people ring true to Australian readers. Especially,
he has an intimate knowledge of the goldmines of the
West and of the life generally on the goldfields. Usually
it is of that life he writes, but in his prize-winning
story he breaks new ground. The story has to do
with the driver of an outback mail-car service and
the two men who drive a truck transport. The drama
of it is sound, and the whole yarn faithfully true
to life.
Second-prize winner E. Mary Gurney is already
well known for her fine depictions of the Maoriland
scene, usually, in her stories, well populated with
horses. To her horses have a definite and singular
personality, and in all the best of her stories she
conveys that feeling for them to the reader. She has
the added quality of a distinctive prose style and
gets a curious mystic atmosphere into her descriptions.
Steve Bennett’s world —in his prize-winning story
and others —is that of the sea and sailing craft; he
knows sail as if he were born in the shadow of a
wheel. Hard to say which has the better quality—
his salted, rough-cut humor or the racy expression of
his feeling for the sea.
The author of the other already-published prize-
winner, E. Dithmack, made her literary gem by
sketching the feelings of a little girl in a poorer-class
district.
The judges report that the short-story competi-
tion was completely successful for having brought in
those four excellent stories. It brought along as well
many other good readable short stories, some of
which have appeared in The Bulletin in the past
month or two, with a very sound lot still to be
published.
Highly "Hi-de-hilarious."
With such matters offering as policemen leaping
to turn off the tap of a crooner’s voice at a Diggers’
gathering in Sydney, not because he was a crooner,
but because it wasn’t a week-day, there is plenty of
scope for satire in the Australian scene. To Robert
Benchley, who in After 1903 What ? (Harper) makes
hay while the sun shines on American idiocies, the
poster out King’s Cross way describing a talkie as
“The most hi-de-hilarious show ever” might be such
a commonplace as to cause merely boredom or exas-
peration, but the Labor party’s uneasy game of
“Follow my Leader” would certainly move his pen.
Astrology, Dorothy Dix, and international news
cables offer endless opportunities for fun ; or, crossing
the Tasman by that liner in whose lounge proud labels
command admiration of the expensiveness of the panel-
ling (Benchley records with jubilation that the Queen
Mary has eight more quoits on the games deck than
has the Normandie), he might find it entertaining that
the M.L. National party, thundering disapproval of
taxation that amounts to £2 2s. per head, announced
that on assuming power it would “immediately abolish
the wages tax on women.”
After 1903 What? is the sort of book that
London’s “Beachcomber” and “Nathaniel Gubbins”
produce—reprint of skits from a daily’s humorous
column. Benchley, one of America’s most highly-paid
columnists, keeps up a steady level of laughter, and
without ever becoming merely piffling as English
columnists tend to do, is capable of reproducing the
surprise of “Beachcomber’s” famous
MY MENUS FOR ALL.
Afternoon tea:
BEER.
He satirises beautifully the “Punch” tradition of
humor, and the only time he slips into the style him-
self, he does it very well: “Little children, climbing
over my knee and into my hair.”
Australians, who don’t like “Punch’s” bright brats
and dear old ladies, and who usually like to laugh at
someone falling off a building and breaking his neck,
should find his tests for drunken drivers both topical
and to their taste. The prohibition of petrol sales to
drunken drivers was suggested, and Benchley’s guide
to the proprietors of service stations as to when a man
is over the edge includes:
When the driver points to the gas-tank and says: “A
pound of liver, please.”
If the driver insists that the gas-station man takes
the driver’s seat while he (the driver) fills the tank,
first exchanging hats.
When the driver goes into the rest-room and doesn’t
come out.
When the driver is alone and is stark naked.
When there is no driver at all.
The last touch is reminiscent of Stephen Leacock’s
slick wisecracking. Benchley admits his debt to
“Beachcomber” by quoting the lovely “Welsh Song”:
Wirion digon gul noch noch
With a hey down derry and a ddwpllwdpoch
Ei gsith och deb nam rydidd gam
With a hey derry di-do caethion pam
And that, incidentally, probably owes something to
Ezra Pound, who, like T. S. Eliot (who coined the
“pneumatic bliss” phrase borrowed by Huxley in Brave
New World), is a good humorist gone wrong, and
who wrote: —•
Winter is i-cumen in,
Lhude sing goddam.
To Leacock he does owe a great deal. One of the
professor’s brightest efforts was about a man on a
camel being pursued across the desert: “Nearer and
nearer they came, nearer and nearer, nearer and nearer,
never getting any further away.” And there’s some-
thing of the same snap and lunacy in Benchley’s sug-
gestions for the wise employment of leisure:
Stringing wire paper-clips together to make a chain
hundreds and hundreds of feet long. The longer the
chain the less leisure time you have to kill.
Tooting an automobile horn in a stalled car.
Running just as fast as you can to the end of the
room and back.
Fishing without bait.
Walking up and down the aisles of a train, scanning
each passenger’s face and asking him, in a whisper,
if he can tell you the lucky number.
Following fish up and down their tank in the
aquarium and driving them crazy.
Counting your fingers, omitting every second one.
But Benchley, because he doesn’t insist on hurling
wisecracks at you in every sentence, is much easier
reading than Leacock. The tabloid merriment comes
all the more strikingly because it is sandwiched
between pages of the sweet irony of his “Clean Sport”
type:
Well (looking at watch), the International Canary
Show at the Crystal Palace should be just about over
by now. I wonder how the American contingent came
out. If pluck and determination had anything to do
with the result they won by a comfortable margin, for
a gamer bunch of canaries I never saw than were
assembled here in New York last month preparatory to
sailing for London. The occasion I saw them working
out was the Eighth Grand National of the Empire
Cage Bird Association, and what a time that was!
Birdseed all over the place! It was four-thirty in the
morning when 1 got home, and even then I couldn’t
sleep.
American Pioneers.
A few months back it was noted on this page
that direct contact between Australia and literary
America was developing, successful Australian books
to be reprinted in America and American books
reprinted here, under arrangements similar to those
existing between American and London publishing
houses. Several Australian writers have benefited
from access to American markets, and there is
promise of Australian readers having a wider choice
of American literature than that afforded solely
through English publishers’ selections.
The first fruit of the new development is to hand
in Northwest Passage, by Kenneth Roberts (Angus
and Robertson), a very long novel covering the period
when colonial Americans, under British officers, were
waging a backwoods war against the French and the
Indians. The French line extended from Quebec and
Montreal out into the Indian country of what was
then the American West. The prize, as well as Canada,
was the rich fur-bearing lands of the Ohio River
valley.
Prominent in the struggle was Major Rogers, an
Indian fighter of long experience. He dressed pic-
turesquely, imposed iron discipline on his turbulent
band of backwoodsmen, led daring raids into disputed
territory. This is the historic hero of Roberts’s book.
The fictional hero is Langdon Towne, a young Yankee
in homespun, anxious to be an artist depicting the
then “vanishing” red man, and, through force of cir-
cumstances, Rogers’s lieutenant, not only in the “Old
French War,” but also later in terrible privation while
they were trying to find a north-west passage to the
Pacific.
Langdon Towne, son of eminently respectable
New England parents, is requested to leave Harvard
following a drunken party. Later, he speaks his mind
too freely in a tavern on the touchy question of the
British Government, and this leads to his departure
for the wars against the French and Indians. His
indiscretions and his artistic ambitions are both
strongly disapproved by the parents of Elizabeth, his
youthful love, and Elizabeth sides with them.
Adventures follow appropriate to such a begin-
ning. After a session among the backwoods fighters
Towne finds himself in London helping Rogers
arrange financial backing for the North-west Passage
expedition. It is the London of Johnson and Hogarth,
of debtors’ prisons—in one of which Rogers is landed
for a spell. Roberts paints that London with a full
palette. It is there Towne meets Ann, who is to
compensate him for the defection of Elizabeth and
who provides feminine interest during the remaining
backwoods adventures.
As all this indicates, Northwest Passage is right
outside the main current of modern American litera-
ture. It is a throwback to Winston Churchill and
Richard Carvel, in some respects even to Fenimore
Cooper and The Last of the Mohicans. But it’s good
of its kind. The thread of interest, provided the
reader can still accept stock romantic situations, is
well maintained. The main characters are sympatheti-
cally drawn and the minor characters, of whom there
is a swarm, have the authentic tang of the American
backwoods.
This commentator found it impossible to avoid
comparing Northwest Passage with Penton’s Land-
takers and Inheritors, Australian books that have been
reprinted—and well received —in America. Like
Northwest Passage they deal with the early days of
their country of origin, but where Roberts fosters the
romantic illusion Penton tears it aside. While North-
west Passage is not an authentic part of the
current American literary effort it has its roots in a
a native literary tradition, just as Penton’s books have,
through men like Favenc and Marcus Clarke; a
tradition very dissimilar to the American one.
A Spanish Liberal.
Of interest equal to the main contents is Manuel
Chaves Nogales’s prologue to his book of short stories
of the Spanish Civil War, And in the Distance a
Light .... ? (Heinemann).
Nogales, besides being a novelist and short-story
writer, was editor of the Madrid newspaper “Ahora.”
At the outbreak of war he made it clear to the Council
of Workers that took over his paper that he believed
neither in them nor their opponents. He had faith
only in evolutionary social progress. He offered his
new bosses loyalty only so long as it was compatible
with “loyalty to himself.” It says something for his
character and public standing that he was allowed to
remain at his post for four months and was given safe
conduct to the frontier. He left when his position as
an “anti-killer” ceased to be tenable.
He is bitter in his exile. The Spain he adores no
longer exists. The resort to force has created opposing
force, and the very ideals for which men are fighting
are being devoured. He sees the contending parties
only as two aspects of the same thing, and says that
his countrymen were temperamentally open to. being
“caught unawares.” Seeds “germinated elsewhere’
have had a “fantastic flowering” in Spain. “It is use-
less to blame any particular sector of the social life of
the country.” For a time when a man of liberal mind
will be able to live happily in Spain he looks forward
a quarter of a century.
The ideas set forth in the prologue furnish the
motif of the half-dozen long short stories in the book,
stories of more than average literary merit. In most
of them a man is pursuing an aim that either evades
or destroys him. The circumstantial detail always con-
vinces as part of an authentic Spanish war picture.
In the title piece a sentry in Madrid sees a star flicker-
ing intermittently and realises that he is watching
(Continued on page Si)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
“THE SENIOR STORE .
' IN PYJAMAS
L , ***,
m
i.-. « fr-i
m
■’SSSV >
C*
.'V
xi
&S
*
OF GENEROUS PROPORTIONS
Horderns
Choose a
wide range, irero ent^ oroiot
to your mam req
Silk and
ll er-gtade 3^/
A super gr v : atna s. * 35 /,
3 et-grade AustraUan
irZlCv Horded
44
Anthony ri
Hordura” Pjf l *”!? \\ &
and “ft An'hony Horderns - ■
« DoU b\e
“ Hor k r ! 1316
“Horrockse 0 f time , t W eave
stand the r ne \ette *
n ''■'Double Warn 13 1 6
“Horrockses Q f time a eave
vrill stand * t ftannelett ,3/6
wear- E f ”„ge of stripes-
in a S°° d ’? Horderns
At Anthony m
2216
Ceylo i- cloth. ra i\ge
P° wfar, H a go° d a nd outsits- 22/6
season w sm aH, rneo
stripes, an r derns ■ ■ '
At An*ony
wear in dressy ®^ att , 0 »y »<»»““
an d outsires-
“Viye" a ” £'„* n A; 42'6
t4t-3aa-s.su
™.w-"AS .» J »r””
■*”*
„.J l» O" s
ANTh KM RNS
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
’PHONE DAY OR NIGHT, M 2401 INSTANT SERVICE


A Good Spiel
COROOKS on DUGQNG ISLAND
By FREEMAN SANDOM
DRAWING BY SUCH.
I WATCHED Charlie Thompson stride up and
down the beach waiting for me. From the set of
his bare shoulders and the stiffness of his walk he
was clearly enjoying himself adding the extra kick
that makes all the difference to a bottled-up and spark-
ling grievance. The cork blew off as I, having fished
my trap, rowed ashore and dumped the hook, stepped
out of the flattie.
Though I wanted my breakfast I listened patiently.
Charlie is like the marshfly. Brush, it off, it comes
back for more. You must swat it, or nothing.
“But why blame me?” I asked at the finish.
“You brought the feller along.”
“I didn’t know him. When I found him out I
warned you.”
“You didn’t,” cried Charlie. “That’s wot I’m sore
about.”
“Your leg should be sore. I kicked it hard
enough.”
“You damn near broke me shin,” Charlie com-
plained. “But who the hell could know wot you
meant?”
“Also I set you a good example ; I went to bed.”
“And left me to lose eighteen quid to that damn
crook,” he growled.
Eighteen quid! In a sense I was to blame. But
the tall, well-dressed bloke on the wharf yesterday—
I was getting ready for the return trip to Dugong
Island —had seemed all right. His eyes, grey, cool
and lazy, looked straight at you, and I liked the
humorous twist to the corners of his mouth. He
wanted to spend the week-end on the island. I did
not want his money, but time drags now and then out
there. A yarn or two in good company is a welcome
change. So I said “Hop in!”
That night—Charlie and old Peter Holzkopf had
turned up, of course —we sprawled on the cool sand
of the beach.
Spot Curtis talked. He had travelled in many
countries, and he made us see what he had seen. At
last old Peter went home to bed and we adjourned
to my place. I opened a bottle of lager. Curtis
got a pack of cards and showed us tricks. The cards
flew from his hands like spray from the back of a
comber, so I said no when he proposed a game of
poker. Presently he took three eggcups and a French
bean from the shelf and began to shift the cups about,
making the bean slip in and out under them.
He spoke, fast and in a soft, sing-song voice:
“Where is the modest little bean? Now you see it
and now you don’t. Why? Because the hand is
quicker than the eye. If you don’t think so, have a
try to guess where the modest little bean is. A dollar
won’t break you. A dollar won’t make you. You
must speculate to accumulate, friends. Where is the
modest little bean?”
I knew the spiel. I had paid for my knowledge.
I said I was sleepy, which was true, but before I retired
I kicked Charlie’s shin under the table, although I
hardly thought the warning necessary.
And now Charlie was blaming me. So after
breakfast I tackled Curtis. He was stretched out in a
deck chair, feet on verandah railing, cigar in mouth,
half-shut eyes watching smoke rings climb roofwards.
“Spot,” I said, “I want to talk to you.”
He turned friendly, lazy eyes on me. “Spit it out,
brother,” he drawled.
“Charlie complains you’ve robbed him.”
Spot was visibly amused. “Robbed? It was a
fair game of chance and your cobber lost.”
“Spot,” I said, “is the shell game fair?”
“Is anything fair? The best boxer makes the
knock-out, the smartest businessman collects the
boodle, and the slickest gambler takes the pot.”
“As my guest, you cheat my cobber.”
“I offered to pay for my keep.”
“I’m not running a boarding-house.”
“I’m a gambler, Bill. I can’t afford sentiment.
Every man for himself is my motto.”
“Every man for himself, eh? Can you swim?”
“I can’t.”
“Suppose you fell overboard, would you shout
for help?”
“As loud as I could.”
“Why? If it’s every man for himself, it would
be useless.”
“Not at all. Don’t you know the world is full
of mugs? Besides, I would pay my rescuer for his
trouble.”
“You would expect him to bargain for a fair
price before he pulled you out?”
“To drive as hard a bargain as he could, yes.”
“What about right and wrong?”
“Right?” asked Spot. “H’m! Dugong Island
has put cobwebs in your brain, Bill. Brush ’em off!”
“I will,” said I. “Now, I want to put my motor-
boat up on the beach before the tide goes out —have
to give her bottom a coat of tar.”
'T'HE tar had not dried properly by Monday morn-
-1 ing, so I had to use the sailing flattie for the trip
to town with Curtis. He did not mind. His father,
he said jocularly, had been a ship’s steward, so the
salt was in his blood.
“Sing-ho for a life on the ocean wave,” said
Spot. “Hoist the main-topgallant sails, and let her
rip, skipper!”
A fresh northerly was blowing, and the shallow
flattie was breaking white. With mainsail and jib set
we made great strides for ten minutes or so.
* It took me months to live down what followed.
The general opinion is I was drunk. Old Peter Holz-
kopf, who witnessed the accident from the beach,
sponsored that theory.
“No mans,” said Peter, “can von boad so
schtoopid sail unless he droonk is—or vood vrom
der negg ub berrabs.”
With the wind dead aft, the sail somehow jibbed
over. Spot Curtis jumped to the other side to keep
the boat on an even keel. So did I, unfortunately.
Our combined weight sent the combing of the cranky
vessel down into a creaming roller, and we shipped
a lot of water. Foolishly, I had let the tiller go. She
swung broadside to the seas. A comber broke over
the side, and the next one swamped us.
I had just time to throw the anchor overboard
and unstep the mast. In the water I rolled the sails
up on the latter and tied the whole to a thwart. The
oars were already securely fastened down. Spot’s
suitcase was safe —though wet —in a locker. No sense
in losing good gear through want of forethought.
Accidents will happen.
We clung to the swamped craft in silence, Spot
on one side, I on the other.
“Well,” said he at last, coolly, “what next?”
“Scared?”
“Wondering,” said he. “Funny way it happened.”
“Cobwebs,” I explained. “I was brushing ’em
away, forgetting my job.”
“I see. Well, what next?”
“Swim ashore.”
“You know I can’t swim.”
“Then here’s your chance to learn.”
He chewed on this for a while. “And the alterna-
tive?”
“Drown. Or wait for a passing boat.”
“How long?”
“God knows. A lugger might happen along in
a week or two.”
“H’m. Many sharks hereabouts?”
“Droves of ’em. Keep your legs tucked well under
the boat.”
He peered into the water below him. “Too
muddy to see much —nothing to do but wait for the
nip, eh?” He jerked his head shorewards. “What
about the feller in there?”
I shook my head. “That’s old Peter Holzkopf.”
“Well, he can’t help his name. Won’t he come
to the rescue?”
“He knows I can swim.”
“Does he know I can’t?”
“He doesn’t worry. Used to sail with Bully
Hayes, they say. He is known as Cash-on-the-nail
Holzkopf.”
“I see,” said Spot. “And the price?”
“Eighteen quid. He never charges less than
eighteen quid for a lifesaving job.”
He whistled. Hanging to the combing with both
elbows he brought a water-soaked wallet from an
inside pocket, counted banknotes and passed a bundle
across. “It was only seventeen-five, you know, but
eighteen is near enough.”
With the wallet still open he eyed me curiously.
“There are more where those came from, skipper.”
“That’s lucky for you,” I said, folding the notes
and ramming them into the watch pouch on my belt.
(I had forgotten to bring the watch.)
He laughed. “Some of the cobwebs are left
behind. That’s lucky for me, too.”
DETER was waiting at the edge of the surf.
* “Are you droonk, Pill?” he asked enviously
as I wrung out my shorts and put them on again.
“Nefer haf I so schtoopid sailing seen.”
“I want your motor-boat, Peter. Juice enough
in the tank?”
“Ya, blendy. But vy for?”
“To rescue Curtis from drowning.”
“Drowning? For vy he walk nod ashore mit
you?”
“He can’t swim,” I explained, starting to make
tracks towards the anchorage.
“Schwim?” I heard him behind me. “In dree
feed ov vater! Gott im Himmel! Der mans is
droonk like von lord.”
On the way to town we wrung out Curtis’s clothes
and swung them from the mast to give the sun and
wind a chance to work. They were reasonably dry
when we arrived in Barrierville.
“No hard feelings, Spot?” I asked on the wharf.
“Not a bit,” he replied heartily. “Fair enough
—you played my own game. But next time I make a
spiel on an island I’ll know how to swim. If I thought
it any use I’d offer you a partnership. That ship-
wreck stunt could be worked again.”
“By the way,” I remarked, “you said Charlie
lost seventeen-five. That right?”
“To a penny. It was all the cash he had on him.”
We shook hands. I never saw him again. He
was a full-blown crook, but I liked him.
CHARLIE was very pleased when 1 handed him
the money and explained. He counted the notes
carefully, twice.
“All there, Charlie? Sure one didn’t stick in my
pocket?”
He eyed me suspiciously and counted again.
“Eighteen quid—all c’rect.”
“That all you lost —eighteen exactly?”
“Eighteen to a penny. Say, if that crook had a
big roll on him why the devil didn’t you sting him for
more?”
Charlie has his good points, but give me a full-
blown crook to a half-blown one any day of the
week!


A Tale of the Boer War
HENDRIK
BY
J-H-M-ABBOTT.
ILLUSTRATED BY PERCY LINDSAY.
HENDRIK VANDEVENTER lifted himself
slowly from the rocks. His head throbbed,
he felt very weak. There was a bloody mess
under his right arm. His shirt was torn
and wet. He ached as a Kaffir aches after a sjam-
boking. So heavy was his head and so full of pain
that for many dizzy minutes he was only able to
support his battered body upon hands and knees.
Stars glittered overhead, countless stars, flashing
and burning and making minor lights as they flashed
and burned and twinkled in peaceful times above his
father’s farm. The cool night wind swept upwards
from the veld, sweet with the smell of new grass.
A hum of life came with it, a faint, far-away sound
of voices, the smell of cooking food. There were the
neighing of horses and the sharp staccato tapping
of mallets upon picket-pegs.
Far down in the darkness twinkled a gathering
of little fires. Flickering points of flame made a
glow that hovered above the camp. Dim shapes of
black, incomprehensible form moved amongst the
lights. To the wounded man it was like a great
fireworks display. Trailing lights of rockets whizzed
upwards. Showering fountains of sparks flashed and
danced and made myriad jets of light that reflected
themselves in his fevered brain. The universe spun
rapidly, with Hendrik Vandeventer as its centre.
Slowly—very slowly—things as they were came
back to him. The little fires in the camp below
ceased to fly upwards, a little wacht-en-beetje tree
upon the edge of the kopje halted in its mad flight.
After the trees the stars themselves stood still. He
leant upon an elbow and saw half-guessed shapes
about him. There was the cannon, the good Krupp
cannon which he loved so well. It looked out into
the night from between its sturdy wheels as one who
kept watch. With a great effort that caused his side
to ache and his head to throb again he crawled
towards it and sat up against its trail the thick,
strong trail that gave it strength in action. A dead
man sprawled across it below the gun’s breech.
And then, in one bitter taste of nauseating
recollection, it all came back to him the hellish
afternoon, the thunderous roar of the bursting shells,
the hissing and cracking of the shrapnel amongst
the rocks, the hum and spin of the flying fragments,
the smell of fresh blood and reek of powder, all
the dreadful, nerve-shaking crash of battle. All the
world had been wiped out. He alone remained to
realise the afterwards. He had a burning thirst-
such a thirst as a man can endure only once.
He felt for the
waterbottle that
hung from his
shoulders by a
strap. Its side was
ripped out, and his
left hip was damp
where the water
had run away. He
groped for the
bottle of the dead
man who lay below
the gun and found
it. It was full, and
he drained it dry.
The dead man
would not mind so
long as it quenched
the thirst of a good
Boer.
Now he was
clearer and could
remember every-
thing. Allemach-
tag! What a day
it had been!
YESTERDAY —or was it
1 to-day?—he had come
with his cannon and the Wak-
kerstroom commando to hold
this kopje. It seemed years
ago—years and years ago. He
remembered piling up earth and stones before the gun.
They had cut bushes and planted them about. in
front, and then they had smoked their pipes and
waited until the silly Englanders marched in their
great thick formations over the patches of burnt
grass. And how they had cannonaded the rooibaatjes !
You could see the scatter and run of the soldiers as
each shell spouted its column of dust in the midst
of their absurd formations. What a bad half-hour
they had given to the Englanders! How good it all
was!
And then he remembered the awakening—the
crouching hour when he had seen each man of his
gun’s crew go down before the pelting hail that
whined and howled and vomited sudden death in a
rain of devastating steel and lead and iron.
A battery—a whole battery of six British guns—
had come into the plain. Joyfully he had turned
his single piece upon them. As the teams trotted
back to cover with the limbers, his first shell had
dropped amongst the horses of the right-hand gun.
It was characteristic of these foolish rooineks to bring
their artillery out in bunches of six into the open
veld, affording an easy and unmistakable mark.
They would never learn sense —but that was the good
luck of the men who were fighting them, and it was
their business to profit by such luck.
But the six British guns had opened fire, and
the first shell a bad shot, but a lucky one had
fallen into his team behind the kopje and wounded
all but one of his horses, so that they were not fit to
haul the gun and limber. And then had come the
deluge!
Shell after shell crashed and roared about his
position. Hans Larsen, the Swedish uitlander, had
been hit by a fragment of flying rock, but mercifully
the good God had not permitted him to live long
in misery.
It had become infernal, and the Englanders had
found the range so well that each shell burst above
or beside or just behind his gun. He had
seen the cowardly Wakkerstroomers run
back over the crest of the kopje, white-
faced and yelling, demoralised by panic.
He had stopped Erasmus Kranz, their veld
cornet, and had begged him to lend horses
to harness to the gun so that it might be
saved. But no, the coward wished rather
to save his own wretched skin than the
cannon, which was worth much more to
the Republic than ever the life of Erasmus
would be. He had cursed the running
Boers and fired his revolver after them—
but nothing could check their flight. And
then he had turned grimly back and had
fought his gun to the end, praising God
and thanking Him that his crew were not as those
who had deserted their posts.
Savagely they had replied to the overwhelming
torrent of iron and the killing hail of shrapnel.
Doggedly they had worked the smoking cannon,
firing perpetually at the distant line of little guns
and the specks of men who worked them. Hans
had been the first to fall; then came a plunging
missile that took the legs from Sarel Prinsloo.
McManus, the Irishman, had crawled behind a rock,
spitting blood and whimpering, and had there died
miserably. Young Piet Schmidt had fallen in a heap
behind the wheels of the gun-carriage. Then came
a cracking, rending explosion in the air above his
head, and that was the very last that Hendrik remem-
bered.
'T' HERE had been a dream —a quiet, peaceful dream
* of grassy veld and a white cottage and an orange
grove. He had stood upon the stoep of the cottage,
looking out over the land the dear, sunny land
which their fathers had won for them by the sweat
of their brows and the accuracy of their rifles from
the savage Chaka and the wicked Moselekatse and
all the hated impis of the vile and worthless Kaffirs.
The blue sky looked down upon him, and the sun
was warm and bright. There was a smell of flowers
and the droning of bees and all the peacefulness of
summer days by the Crocodile River, where the air
is sweet and fresh and balmy and so different from
this vile smell of burning powder. He seemed to
have come to the stoep and still to have the reek
of bursting shells in his nostrils.
He remembered the savage earnestness of the
first minutes of that terrible bombardment how
they had toiled and sweated and dripped blood
about the gun. He remembered the hopeless dis-
heartenment of seeing his crew struck down one by
one, the anguish of knowing that he fought a losing
fight which no exertion of his might turn into a
victory. The bitter realisation of having been
deserted by his escort, the glad exaltation of knowing
that at least his men were faithful unto death, the
dreadful feeling of dissolution when his own turn
came.
Dimly he groped among such things as he might
hope to understand. Why, then, was he here in the
He stirred it with his boot. It rolled over and sat up.


midst of his dead comrades? Firstly to be realised
amongst all else —he had not been slain. The iron
storm had spared him. He could move about,
weakly and painfully, but yet he could move. But
why had not his cannon been captured by the Eng-
landers? If their camp was in the veld below, their
pickets must be out beyond him. They were never
closer to their camp than two miles —these vigilant and
wakeful people who fired their rifles if a breeze
rustled the mealie stalks. Why was there not a
sentry standing watchful on the kopje? How came
he here alone when the Wakkerstroom men had fled
and the British had won the position?
He leaned against the gun-trail and pondered
all these things feebly, as a sick man considers the
lights and shades of days that filter through drawn
blinds. He had had all the energy, all the courage,
all the determination to stem the British advance.
But because of the cowardice and faintheartedness
of the men of Wakkerstroom his sacrifice had been
for nothing. His gun’s crew had paid away their
lives and had had nothing in return. He knew that
he, at least, was a brave man. He knew that his
dead comrades were brave also but of what avail
was it?
Defeat, defeat! But had he suffered a defeat?
A slow thought kindled in his awakening conscious-
ness. Was he quite beaten? He had still his cannon,
his cherished Krupp. Doubtless there was yet
ammunition in the limber, if he could only get to it.
He put out his hand and felt the lanyard hanging
from the breech. Ach! So! Here was his chance.
Perhaps he must die —he would die rather than
become a prisoner, a poor exile to be sent overseas
and treated as a dog. He heaved his aching body
round and crept towards where he knew the limber
of the gun had stood at the back of the kopje’s flat
top.
Painfully he crawled to it and found it all a
wreck. It had exploded. He shed tears as he dragged
himself back to the trail. In the darkness he did not
bear correctly and brought up against one of the
wheels of the gun-carriage instead. He leaned against
it, sitting up, and put out a hand to steady himself.
His fingers touched a box, a wooden box filled
with conical things live shells. The box was a
hand magazine, a means of transporting ammunition
from the limber to the gun. It had rope handles
at each end. Allemachtag! Here was God’s good-
ness !
Hastily he dragged one of the shells out of the
box. Groping below it he found the tin cases which
contained the charges. With his penknife he ripped
the paper binding from a tin, took out the silk-
enclosed charge and dragged himself, with shell and
charge in the crook of his arm, up to his feet behind
the gun. He opened the breech as one in a dream
and shoved in the shell, using a long stone to' push
it home. He knew from the feel of it that it was
percussion shrapnel. He put the charge in behind
it. In a box on the carriage were the little detonating
things that fired the charge. He adjusted the lanyard
to one of them and then, more by touch than sight,
fixed the elevation of the gun to about a thousand
metres. He crawled clear of the recoil and pulled
the lanyard with the quick jerk that gunners use.
There was a roar and a sheet of yellow flame
and the gun jumped upon its wheels. The shell
rushed away into the night, howling a diminuendo
of shrill sound. Hendrik strained his eyes to see
where it would burst.
There was a flash of flame amongst the lights
in the camp, and presently came back the bang of
the explosion. It was without doubt a very lucky
shot. He felt exultantly that the battle was mot over
yet. He would give the accursed Englanders a
nightcap, as they used to say in Jo’burg before the
war.
Once again he crawled to the box beside the
wheel, and again came back with shell and charge.
Again he loaded, laid the gun and fired. This time
the shell burst beyond the lights. The gun had
altered its position with the recoil of the first shot
and would need to be run up again ; but Hendrik
was too weak to do it. He fired a third shot at them.
The exertion had been too much for him, and
the camp’s lights became rockets again. The stars
danced and rushed together, and then came again
the dream of peaceful days and blue, sunny skies,
and he sank down behind the wheel across Piet
Schmidt’s stiffened corpse.
. “Damn it!” grunted Lieutenant Casey of the
Australian Bushmen as he bruised his shins amongst
the rocks on the crest of the kopje. “There’s no one
here. They’d ha’ been blazing into us five minutes
ago if there had been.”
“Here’s a gun, anyway, sir,” said the sergeant-
major .out of the darkness. “Here’s the gun that
shelled the camp.”
They clambered round the brush emplacement,
breathing hard. The starlight glittered faintly on
fixed bayonets. There was the panting of many men
and the grunting of oaths.
“So there is!” said Mr. Casey. “This is a rum
go—beats me completely. Here’s the gun, but who
the devil fired it?”
“Couldn’t ha’ fired itself, sir. There must be
someone planted in these rocks. Come up here, you
blokes. Come up.”
9 “But our outposts are out there in front of us.
I posted ’em myself. How on earth could we have
missed this gun? It must be the one that gave the
battery so much trouble this afternoon.”
“The outposts must ha’ missed it, sir. They
rode round the kopje instead of over the top. That’s
how it was.”
“There must be someone hiding. Search all
round, you chaps, and see if you can find anyone.
Lord! Here’s a dead man.’
“Here’s another, sir,” said the sergeant-major.
He stirred it with his boot. It rolled over and
sat up. • Instantly the sergeant-major had it by the
throat.
“Who the devil are you?” he roared.
“Hendrik Vandeventer, lieutenant, Staats Artil-
lerie. I have not hands-upped. Go to hell! I have
not fly white flag. Go away. Voetsak!”
“Did you shell the camp to-night?” asked Mr.
Casey.
“Ja! Haf I made good practice?”
“Fine, old sport. I congratulate you, Mr. Van-
deventer. Splendid! Where are the rest where’s
your gun’s crew?”
“Dead. It was only I —Hendrik Vandeventer.”
“Well, I’ll be damned!” exclaimed the sergeant-
major.
“He’s a public nuisance,” came a discon-
tented Australian voice out of the darkness behind
the gun.
SPRING WAS ALL ABOUT
BY DON EDWARDS.
I”T~\HEN he came out from the cool interior of
\X / the hos Pi morn i n g sun threw a warm
V V cloak about him. He stopped on the porch
and breathed deeply of the crisp air. An
optimistic confidence seized him. It was grand to
be alive.
Slowly and with great care he shuffled forward
a few paces, and with his first uncertain movements
his feeling of confidence gave place to one of terrible
despair. This wouldn’t do at all. He stopped, and
again was keenly conscious of the warm sunlight and
the sharp, invigorating air.
Edgar was a long while coming. He should
have been out here by this. Very slowly he moved
forward again, and once he felt weak and helpless.
With every step he felt more insecure. A sudden
confused fear seized him, and he called, at first quietly
but soon with quickly increasing loudness, “Edgar.
Edgar. Edgar.”
He turned at the man’s approach and gripped
his arm, smiling and murmuring apologetically, “I’m
sorry. I guess I’m not quite the man I was before
the accident.”
It was a few seconds before the man replied.
“That’s all right, Harry, old chap. Things will im-
prove quickly ; but you shouldn’t try to go off with-
out my help.”
There was no anger in his voice, nor any pity.
Harry didn’t want pity. Things were bad enough, but
at least he was standing on his feet and facing the
world again. Certainly he still needed help, but after
a time he might not need that.
“Come on,” he said ; “let’s get away from here.”
He grasped Edgar’s arm and carefully went down
the six steps to the waiting car. Once in the car
he leant back and relaxed, feeling safe again.
“Open up all the windows,” he said ; “I want to
feel the wind.” Then he laughed harshly and added:
“If only it could blow away the memory of the last
few months!”
“Time will do that for you,” he heard Edgar
say; but instead of consoling him it made him
despondent. The present worried him enough, but
the thought of the future almost drove him mad.
He must concentrate on the present and not let his
thoughts wander into the hopeless future.
“You have a lot to be thankful for.” “It was
a near thing.” “You must make the best of things,”
they had said to him. How could they hope to
understand? But at least he would endure this alone,
and not inflict himself on others. The thought
brought his mind back to his wife.
He knew that Edgar didn’t agree with what he
was doing, but he couldn’t see it any other way. It
was going to be hard enough without letting his
thoughts dwell on it.
“Go round by Hill-street and the park, Edgar,”
he said.
“That will take you past your home,” he heard
him reply.
“Yes ; but I know that way so well,” he said. “I
know every house and tree and rut in the road.” He
paused for a few seconds. “I want to see them all
again.”
The car swung out of the busy road and com-
menced the long climb up Hill-street. He wondered
whether he was being quite honest with himself or
whether this was only an excuse for passing his
home.
“You will call in and see Paula?” Edgar said
to him appealingly.
“No,” he replied sharply. Then, as if to reassure
himself, “No. It’s better not to call in.”
“Paula wouldn’t want it this way.”
“Not now, perhaps, but later,” he said. Then,
as if the hopelessness of it all had suddenly struck
him again, he shouted bitterly: “Can’t you realise
how I feel? Can’t you understand?”
“Perhaps I can, Harry,” Edgar replied slowly,
“but I still think you’re wrong. I know Paula.”
He sat there silently within the prison of himself,
thinking of his wife. He felt his resolutions weaken-
ing. What if Edgar were right? Suppose Paula
really did want him! But he must be sure, and that
was impossible. He couldn’t go on living with her,
uncertain always of how she felt. No, he was doing
the only possible thing.
HE car slid off the asphalt street on to the rougher
road within the park. The wind swept about him
more strongly. He could smell the roses and hear
the birds chirping. He felt that it was good to be
out again.
“The roses are looking fine, aren’t they?” he said.
“Yes, they are indeed,” Edgar answered.
“And the park is beautifully green and the river
is running over the weir.” He was like a small boy
commencing a holiday trip. He hardly heard Edgar s
slow reply : “It has been a pretty dry season, Harry.
The park could be greener.”
“Yes,” he said quickly, as if to stop Edgar from
continuing; “but it is all beautiful to me. It will
always be perfect, as it was on the happiest day of
my life —when Paula and I drove home this way after
our honeymoon.” He was silent for several minutes.
“That was just four years ago. It was a lovely morn-
ing like this. The roses were out, everything was
green and fresh,'and spring was all about.”
The car quickened on the long slope towards the
exit of the park. There was a catch in his voice as
he said appealingly: “The trees are looking well, and
the lawns too, Edgar.”
He felt a hand grasp his shoulder. “Yes, Harry ;
everything looks perfect. It has never looked better.”
He leant forward eagerly. “Not far to the house
now, is it?”
“Only a few hundred yards,” he heard, and he
quivered with excitement, as if he was returning
home after a long absence. But he was not returning
home. In a few minutes he would be past the house
and going away from Paula. The thought killed his
excitement and left him more despondent than ever.
She would call for him this afternoon, and at the
hospital they would tell her that he had gone with
Edgar. She would try to find him, but he would
keep away from her. That was the best way.
Edgar’s voice broke in on his thoughts. “I can
see Paula sitting under the elm-tree on the lawn.”
The car slowed. He did not reply, nor did he
turn his head, but in his mind he could see his wife
sitting in her favorite position under the elm-tree.
He felt a strong desire to get out of the car and
go to her, but he fought against it. He had not
thought it would be as difficult as this. If only he
could be sure that Paula would want him now, and
go on wanting him! But how was he ever to be
certain?
The car went even more slowly. Edgar was
talking to him. “You should go in, Harry. You feel
this way now, but later you will be sorry.”
The car stopped. He sat there thinking, and
slowly he came to a full realisation of his future
loneliness and solitude, imprisoned within himself.
Without Paula he had no hope of any happiness.
“Come on,” he said. Slowly he got out of the
car. Gripping Edgar’s arm, he shuffled down the
side path of the house. On the edge of the big lawn
he stopped. “You wait in the car,” he said ; “I can
make it all right from here. She hasn’t seen us, has
she?”
Slowly he walked across the soft turf. If neces-
sary he could go away with Edgar after he had met
Paula. Somehow he knew he would be able to tell
whether this had altered her. He found himself
hoping desperately that it had not. Perhaps that was
why he had been afraid to meet her.
He was somewhere near her now, but he had
lost all sense of direction. He felt about with his
hands, suddenly afraid, as he had been on the porch
of the hospital. His fear mounted.
“Paula!” he called. “Paula!”
He heard her cry “Harry, my dear!” and felt
her arms about him.
“Oh, my dear, you are back again, and now I
can look after you always!” he heard, and his fear
vanished, for he knew she wanted him, and now,
because of his blindness, he needed her more than
ever before.


MEMORIAL FUZE
Closing Date June 6, 1938.
JtSOO
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
No entry having been considered
worthy of the Prize last year the
amount goes on to this year’s award,
making the total £2OO. Details can
be had on application to “The
Bulletin,” 252 George St., Sydney.
"Boxers and Strong Men Don’t Mix”
SAMSON
By CON DREW
DRA WING BY SCORFIELD.
I HAD a half-share in a strong man
once, but never again. At that
time me and Shakspeare Joe was
in Sydney arrangin’ to take a boxin’
team out on the road. We’d collected
a good bunch of scrappers and was goin’ to board the
rattler for Inverell next day when Shakspeare says to
me: “Come for a stroll along to the gym. I’ve got
somethin’ I want to show you.”
“What is it?” I asks.
“Somethin’ that will interest you,” says Shak-
speare.
Thinkin’ he might have invested in a new type
of punchin’-ball or somethin’, I followed him up to
the gym. When we lobbed there I thought it had
been rainin’ ironmongery. Scattered all over the floor
was iron weights and bar-bells, and in the middle of
it all a brawny gent, was playin’ pitch and toss with
a blacksmith’s anvil. He dropped the anvil after a
bit and yanked up a bar-bell that looked to weigh
about three-quarters of a ton.
“That’s what I brought you up to show you,”
says Shakspeare. “This bloke is the strongest man
in Australia. He don’t know his own strength.”
“He’ll find out the strength of that bar-bell if he
drops it on his toe,” says I. “If he’s lookin’ for
work why don’t he take on a jdb? There’s no sense
in liftin’ things only to put them down again.”
“Oh, ain’t there?”
“No, there ain’t,” says I. “What does he get
out of liftin’ them iron bars?”
“It ain’t what he gets out of it,” says Shakspeare ;
“it’s what we’ 11 get. I’ve arranged to take him on
the road with us to-morrer.”
“You’ve what ?” says I.
“I’ve signed him up,” says Shakspeare. “He’ll
be the star turn of the show.”
“He’ll be the end of the show,” I come back.
“Boxers and strong men don’t mix.”
“They’ll have to mix,” says Shakspeare. “People
want fresh turns these days, and we’ve got to keep
abreast of the times.”
I didn’t say nothin’, and Shakspeare says: “Well,
what about it? Are you agreeable?”
“If you’re keen on takin’ him with us I’m agree-
able,” says I, “but he’s sure to cause us some trouble.”
“That’s settled, then,” says Shakspeare. “I’ll tell
him to pack his gear.”
('""JOIN’ up in the train next day Shakspeare gave
me an earful of the wonderful lifts that his strong
man had done. “We’ll call him Samson,” says he.
“It’ll draw like a linseed poultice.”
. At Inverell we unloaded our two wagons and
gear and pushed off towards the Queensland border.
The country was havin’ a good season, and at some
of the places we showed at we did pretty good
business.
I must admit that Samson went well. He’d
begin his act by tearin’ in half two packs of playin’
cards. And it was dinkum, too. After the card
business Sam would do a series of showman lifts
and foller them up by makin’ a wrestler’s bridge and
lettin’ three men stand on him. His curtain act was
to bang himself on the back of the neck with a bar
about an inch thick and bend it almost double. It
was a lead bar, of course, but the act always brought
down the house.
Yes, Sam went pretty well, but he couldn’t
stand corn. As soon as he seen he was makin’ a bit
of a hit he started to give himself airs. He commenced
by sayin’ he ought to be billed bigger in the towns
we showed at. Shakspeare done that for him because
it was all to our good. Next he wanted higher wages.
When he found there was nothin’ doin’ he sulked
for a week. Then he started failin’ out with the
boxers. There was a flyweight in the team called
Joe, and him and Sam was always havin’ arguments.
To keep the pair as far apart as possible Shak-
speare made them travel on different wagons. It didn’t
do much good. As soon as they got together again
they was at it as bad as ever. The climax came one
day when, after an extra-hot argument, Sam grabbed
hold of Joe and nearly broke his neck.
Shakspeare thought it was time to step in.
“Listen, you great big stiff,” he says to Sam ; “you’ve
done nothin’ but make trouble since you joined the
show, and it’s got to stop.”
“I ain’t the only one that’s makin’ trouble,”
Sam come back.
“Oh, ain’t you?” says Shakspeare. “Well, you
leave that flyweight alone, you hear? If I catch you
interferin’ with him again I’ll hang a punch on that
destroyer jaw of yours and dump you out of the
show.”
And he’d have done it, too. There
wasn’t a better all-in fighter than Shak-
speare in New South Wales.
After that things was quiet for a bit,
but I knew there was trouble brewin’.
Joe wasn’t the sort of bloke to stand
bein’ nearly killed without gettin’ even, and I said
as much to Shakspeare.
“Oh, everything’ll be all right,” says he. “I’ve
told Joe I won’t stand for no more nonsense, and he
won’t be game to pull any funny tricks.”
“I hope you’re right,” says I, “that’s all.”
We were in Tenterfield at the time. Two days
later we crossed the border at Texas and set a course
for Goondiwindi. It blew so hard in Goondiwindi
that we couldn’t put up the tent, so we engaged the
local hall for the night. There bein’ no counter-
attraction the place was packed when it was time to
start the show.
Shakspeare put the boxers on first and told them
to make it snappy. “If the show takes on I’ll book
the hall again for to-morrer night,” says he, “and it
might mean a bit extra for you.”
They made it snappy all right. Our star welter,
Goodliffe, got so enthusiastic when the last three-
rounder was in progress that he put his opponent out
for keeps. The crowd was delighted.
Then it came to Samson’s turn. The usual thing
was for Shakspeare to offer a tenner to the man who
could lift weight for weight with Sam. Not that any-
one ever took him on. Shakspeare made the announce-
ment as part of the ballyhoo. He thought it sounded
well. We were a bit surprised when, after Shak-
speare had finished his say, a bloke stood up in the
body of the hall and accepted the challenge.
“Ah,” says Shakspeare, “I’m glad to see there’s
a gent, in the audience who is willin’ to match his
strength against Samson. Will you come up on the
stage, Mr.”
“Jackson,” put in the bloke.
“Thank you, Mr. Jackson,” says Shakspeare.
“Will you please come up here?”
The bloke came up on the stage and took off
his coat. He was a deep-chested chap with solid
underpins and looked to be fairly powerful. We
heard afterwards that he was the strongest man in
the town and had been practisin’ weight-liftin’ for
years. Shakspeare introduced him to Sam, and the
trials commenced.
The first test was a two-handed Continental jerk
of 2001 b. It wasn’t much of a hoist, and both of
’em done it easy. The next was a fairly solid right-
hand jerk, and they both done that. This was fol-
lered by a left-hand swing of 1401 b., and it takes some
doin’. Sam swung the weight without much effort,
but it was a bit of a task for Jackson. They did a
militarv nress after that, then Shakspeare gave them
the final test.
It was a dead lift of 4901 b. I’d seen Sam lift it
several times, so I wasn’t surprised when he brought
the weight off the floor. Then it was Jackson’s turn.
With his legs spread a bit to give him the proper
purchase he gave a heave at the bar. It didn’t move.
He tried again, but still it didn’t budge. This left
him one more try, and he put everythin’ he had
into a heave. I seen the blood run into his face
with the strain, but the task was beyond him. “I’m
beat,” he said, and put on his coat.
“The test is over, gentlemen,” says Shakspeare.
“Mr. Jackson has failed, but he is to be congratulated
on the good showin’ he put up. We will now con-
tinue with Samson’s act, in which he will bend
a bar an inch in thickness by strikin’ himself on the
back of the neck.”
Jackson was just about to step down off the
stage when Shakspeare said that, and he pulled up
short.
“Rats!” he said. “Your strong bloke might be
able to beat me at weight-liftin’, but there ain’t a
man in the world who can do what you said.”
“Oh, yes, there is,” says Shakspeare. “You’ll
see Samson do it in a minute.”
“If he does,” says Jackson, “I’ll fine meself a quid
and give it to the local hospital.”
“That’s the spirit,” says Shakspeare; “and to
show that I appreciate good sportsmanship I’ll go one
better. If Samson fails to bend the bar I’ll donate
a tenner to the hospital. All right,” he says to Sam-
son, “show the audience how it is done.”
Sam picked up the bar and held it a foot away
from the back of his neck. He was a good showman
and he knew how to get the best effects. For a time
he held the bar suspended while he steeled his muscles
for the strike, then he brought it down with terrific
force fair on the back of his neck.
I’ve seen a few poleaxed steers, but nothin’ that
ever went down so sudden as Sam did. He didn’t
topple over as you see men do when skittled in the
boxin’-ring. He crashed down on the floor as if the
roof had fallen in on him. We was all so surprised
that we just stood gapin’ until Shakspeare dashed
into the wings and lowered the curtain. After it was
down he went out in front and told the crowd that
the show was over. “There’s been a slight accident,”
he said, “but nothin’ serious.”
Meanwhile we’d been workin’ our hardest on
Sam, but it wasn’t until Shakspeare came back' that
we brought him round. When we helped him to his
feet he was still as groggy as a five-day-old calf.
“Where am I?” he says. “What happened?”
“You hit yourself with a dinkum iron bar,” says
Shakspeare ; “and it don’t take no Nick Carter to
know who rung it in.”
We all looked around for Joe, the flyweight, but
he’d smoked himself away. And, what is more, he
ain’t never been sighted since.


someone signalling by torch. The traitor is caught in
the act, and the chain of signals followed up by one
devoted and implacable man until he comes to the last
light, the spurt of a gun. The feeling of night-
enshrouded Madrid is well done.
“Anvil” is the story of a huge and heroic work-
man —symbolic, it is to be gathered, of the common
men of Spain—drawn against his natural wishes into
war, fighting heroically and at last dying with two
weeping women to mourn him. “Massacre” deals with
the “Fifth Column” —sympathisers of one side behind
the lines of the other. Some are shown ready to risk
something for their sympathies, others willing to save
their skins by serving their enemies in an extremity.
Nogales is interested in the tragic human wastage.
One night 125 officers of the old regime are lined up
in a prison yard to be shot as a reprisal for a rebel
air raid. Reprieve is offered any of them willing to
serve with the Government forces. They prefer, to a
man, to be machine-gunned.
“The Iron Column” gives an effective picture of
the confusion that arises during civil war. It also,
embodies an ironic flick at foreign volunteers. George,
an Englishman, joins up in Madrid with a band of
marauders whom he believes to be part of the Gov-
ernment forces. He sets out with them on an expedi-
tion, and at an isolated village they are met with a
little resistance by the local fathers. Says the
marauders’ leader, in effect, “The Fascists are in charge
here, we’ll have to tune ’em up a bit.” While negotia-
tions are going forward George, who was drunk the
night before, falls asleep. He wakes to see armed men
running by and inquires what they are doing. “Fight-
ing the Fascists,” is the reply; “they’re occupying the
gaol.” This is good enough for George. He joins
them, and there is a desperate fight before they force
an entry and George finds himself face to face with
his former comrades.
Fang-shu and Archibald MacLeish.
It is three thousand years from Archibald Mac-
Leish’s new verse play for radio to the peasants who
were plucking the white millet when Fang-shu arrived
With three thousand chariots,
With banners shining bright,
With leather-bound nave and metal-studded yoke,
His eight bells jingling,
Wearing his insignia—
The red greaves so splendid,
The tinkling onion stones at his belt.
And yet, through the accident of the Sino-Japanese
war, Fang-shu, who lives in The Book of Songs, trans-
lated from the Chinese of 800 b.c. by Arthur Waley
(Allen and Unwin), could be made into a play as
topical as and more colorful *and more interesting to
radio listeners than MacLeish’s diatribe against
Fascism.
MacLeish, in the tradition of Prufrock and “The
Dance of Death,” is desperately topical. Decoratively
presented by Boriswood, the play, The Fall of the City,
is a poetic version of Sinclair Lewis’s It Can’t Happen
Here, driving home the moral that it can happen here
by the impact of a mob-scene against a vaguely
Grecian background of smoke and high priests.
An announcer, taking the place of the Greek
chorus, delivers a running commentary explaining and
clarifying the symbolism, and by employing him Mac-
Leish has made a technical discovery of real value.
Purely poetic plays, as distinct from Shakspearean
plays, where the method is that of prose, rely entirely
on symbolism, and, unless that is explained, have no
chance of ever becoming popular. Use of the an-
nouncer, a legitimate and customary device in radio,
makes it possible to supply the explanation in a normal
way, and the radio verse-playwright has over the
writer for the ordinary stage the enormous advantage
that the chorus is unseen. The announcer fulfils the
same function as Box and Cox in Auden’s play with-
out any of their Punch-and-Judy incongruity.
MacLeish, in an interesting introduction, claims
that since the announcer is available, and since radio
depends for its effects solely on the spoken word, com-
mand of which is the poet’s essential attribute, there
is a future for poetry in plays of this type, and, as
far as his technical ideas go, there is a lot in the
contention.
It is possible, too, that plays of “The Fall of
the City” type could bring poetry into favor again
with that section of the public which eats war-scare
headlines with its bacon every morning. The ideolo-
gical hysteria that inspired “The Waste Land,” “The
Dance of Death” and the present play is as fashion-
able among intellectuals as was colitis among Axel
Munthe’s patients. And unlike Auden’s verse, which
jazzed its way to hysteria, MacLeish’s is musical and
competent, and he has caught the exact rhythm of the
contemporary nervousness:
The terror that stands at the shoulder of our time
Touches the cheek with this: the flesh winces.
In a time like ours seemings and portents signify.
Ours is a generation when dogs howl and the
Skin crawls on the skull with its beast’s foreboding.
But doing the world to death in verse has been
done to death. To those who find the ailments of
intellectuals boring, and to the mass of the public,
which, by approving of “Romeo and Juliet” as a talkie,
showed that verse still can be popular, a radio recital
of Waley’s translations could be made more interest-
ing than MacLeish’s drama. MacLeish lacks the sense
of historical continuity that gives literature balance
and deep human excitement. He mirrors a period ;
but Waley, in his excellent translations, has caught
the whole spirit of the human adventure. His book
of songs, ranging from 800 b.c. to 600 b.c., covers
every phase of life ; the poems are classified under
headings such as Courtship, Marriage, Battles, Agri-
culture, Building, Hunting, Moral Pieces, Lamenta-
tions, and every one is as topical as this morning’s
paper. The year 1938 isn’t the first time troops
marched in China:
The king’s hosts swept along
As though flying, as though winged,
Like the river, like the Han,
Steady as a mountain,
Flowing onward like a stream,
Rank on rank in serried order,
Immeasurable, unassailable;
Mightily they marched through the land of Hsu.
And whether there was war or peace in China
they made, as the Japanese did, too, the most delicate
poems imaginable from the ritualistic simplicity of
their daily lives:
See, she gathers the white aster
By the pools, on the little islands.
See, she uses it
At the rituals of her prince and lord.
Her tall wig nods
At dawn of night, while she plies her task.
With tall wig gently swaying
Here she comes back to her room.
Sound Period Piece.
Though a little lacking in dramatic content, They
Are Transformed, by Seton Peacey (Macmillan), is a
very sound job. It is the middle book of a trilogy
dealing with two branches of the Cargoe family,
middle-class English folk, and after a brief study of
the genealogical chart can be taken as a complete
novel. In five parts, 1860 .to 1892, stepped-off in
approximately equal paces, it portrays the mid-
Victorian mentality developing toward Edwardianism.
Sir William Cargoe, recently deceased at the
opening of the book, had married twice, first to a
P. G. who lately added “VH-UXX”
(reviewed R.P. 23/2/38) to his fine accounts
of adventurous flying by Australians. His
latest book takes the reader behind scenes with
Ulm; “Pacific Flight” was a vividly descriptive
account of Taylor’s flight with Kingsford Smith
from Australia to America.
harum-scarum girl by whom he had two daughters,
Drusilla, who had an illegitimate son, Mark, who
became an A.R.A., and Anne, a gentle, repressed girl,
sufferer in a hopeless love.
Sir William bequeaths most of the unentailed
portion of his estate to the children of his second
marriage, Hugh, Elizabeth, Maud, David, Constance ;
a typically conformist middle-class group. The author
gets interest out of the implicit comparisons between
the first and second family and the rancor that arises
out of the division of the estate. One member of the
second family is reputed to be the child of Sir
William’s brother, Captain Adam Cargoe, of Black-
gang, father of the second Cargoe branch. It is one
of the skeletons hidden from the public in the closets
of the ultra-respectable, and in the intimate circle of
the families is not taken very seriously.
They Are Transformed has the usual furniture
of the period social study. A member of the family
is killed in the Crimean War; another is with
Kitchener on the march to Khartoum; Tennyson
and Beaudelaire are spoken of in the present tense ;
young Mark, in his student days, speaks with enthu-
siasm of the work of a young American artist,
Whistler. The book, however, does not rest on these
things. Peacey makes up for what his story lacks
in dramatic tensity by his feeling for the changing
outlook and also by considerable ability in charac-
terisation. As he takes up each person in each of
the five parts and there are a large number of
characters —each speaks his piece very convincingly.
Even when he glances at minor characters they have
sharpness of feature for the moment.
Most interesting are Drusilla, who —through her
own irregular position in society as the mother of an
illegitimate though admirable son —becomes something
of a feminist and reformer: Jonas, who, as the
youngest son of the junior branch, starts with every
handicap and creates for himself a successful business
career, and Mark, whose early enthusiasms for the
rising painters of his day are well done.
Mark’s artistic weakness—as a friend tells him —
is his social amenability. In late life he comes to
realise it rather bitterly. The last view the reader has
of him is in his studio, slashing a large and very
successful regimental picture to ribbons.
Russian Novel.
The abortive Russian revolution of 1905 —follow-
ing the Russo-Japanese War —is the string on which
Valentine Kataev, in Lonely White Sail (Allen and
Unwin ; translated by Charles Malamuth), threads a
series of vivid glimpses of life in Odessa and vicinity
from the viewpoint of a couple of wide-awake boys.
One, Peter, is the son of a professor who permits
a sailor, a runaway from the mutiny aboard the
cruiser Potyomkin, to hide under the seat of a coach
in which they are returning from a holiday on the
shores of the Black Sea. The other, Gavrik, Peter’s
friend, is a gamin who lives with his fisherman grand-
father on the outskirts of the city ; a sort of Russian
Huckleberry Finn. His elder brother is an active
revolutionary who helps conceal the fugitive sailor
from authority and provides the link between the
boys and the revolution which is swirling about them
but which, in other circumstances, might not have
directly affected their lives.
Lonely White Sail is not a juvenile novel. In the
main, it deals with a mature world of place and event;
but these things are seen through young, impression-
able minds, and that enables the writer to give, both
to the happenings of the revolution and the contrast-
ing scenes from everyday life, an unusual degree of
freshness. A very readable book.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
Sparrow Farm : Hans Fallada (Putnam). Rural
fantasy in which the lovers and others are changed
into sparrows and sparrows are endowed with speech.
Fallada’s vein of fantasy is in a tradition difficult for
the non-German mind to appreciate. His characters
are too humanly substantial for their fairyland adven-
tures to carry conviction.
Five Proud Riders: Ann Stafford (Hamish Hamil-
ton). Five children and their ponies on a trek through
the New Forest. Adventures equine and human and
some instruction in the care of riding stock.
The Master of Chetwynd: Joy Baines (Harrap).
Children’s revolt against a father who subordinates
their welfare to his ambition for the headship of a
provincial university. A good medium-weight.
Clear the Ice, Please!: Hugh Talbot (Dent). A
novel for ice-skating enthusiasts. One tournament
after another, with fair Carol Considine winning all
the way and falling in and out of love as she goes.
Sky-Rocket: Mary Pitt (Nicholson and Watson).
Maryse’s promising film career interrupted by a murder
at a garden party in her honor. Solution both logical
and grisly.
The Persian Journey: Elgin Groseclose (Harrap).
An American preacher in Persia abandons his expen-
sively-equipped mission for staff and sandals and the
sermon preached by the wayside. A tract thinly
disguised as fiction.
Joy for Two, by E. Morchard Bishop (Cape),
gives matrimonial shipwreck a new twist. The book
purports to be autobiographical, written by a young
man, David, after divorce which he didn’t want, but
for which he gave legal justification because every
possibility of happiness for himself and his wife
seemed exhausted. David writes the yarn after the
bitterness of defeat has worn off a little, when he has
had time for reflection. Through this the book
reaches its highest achievement, for it slowly becomes
apparent that he has saved much from the wreck.
General . . .
Sunset House: Lady Fortescue (Blackwood).
Further impressions of village life in Southern France
by the author of Perfume from Provence. This one
tells of the purchase, rebuilding and occupation of a
picturesque cottage. Pleasantly done.
A Black Civilisation : W. Lloyd Warner (Harper).
A weighty and highly technical contribution to anthro-
pology ; the fruits of three years, 1926-1929, among
the Murngin tribe in Arnhem Land. Warner is
Associate Professor of Anthropology and Sociology
at the University of Chicago. A foreword records his
warm admiration for his hosts and thanks for hospi-
tality received.
Boadilla: Esmond Romilly (Hamish Hamilton).
A fairly readable account of service with the Inter-
national Column during the first few months of
fighting in Spain. There is local interest in the
character of Whately, an Australian. His peculiarities
were that he took his boots off to rest his feet as
often as he could and “he didn’t talk at all.”
A Bonfire of Leaves: David Whitelaw (Geoffrey
Bles). Recollections of childhood, Bohemia, magazine
editorship, American travel, hobnobbing with popular
celebrities of literature and art. Pleasantly written,
but takes figures like Harrison Fisher, the American
painter of magazine covers, and Sax Rohmer, English
author of Oriental thrillers, a little too seriously.
The Political Aspect of Religious Development:
Dr. E. E. Thomas (Unicorn Press). Has an atmo-
sphere of profundity, and has a great deal to say
about history, but it is concerned merely with a
theoretical examination of the political byways of
religion and deals nowhere with concrete facts, nor
with the obvious aspects of the subject that occur to
the ordinary mind.


TRIUMPH
after
FOR
TRIUMPH
Grateful reports, from
former sufferers who have
been made well again by
this Wonderful Natural
Tonic, provide striking and
positive proof that Hutuwai
is giving genuine and per-
manent relief and restoring
health to thousands of
Australians.
HUTUWAI eradicates
aches and pains and fur-
nishes new vigour to the
nervous system . . . the
brain becomes more active
and clear and the body
glows with vitality and
vigour.
Read these Remarkable
Reports:—
“I am now 77 years of age, and
want you to know that Hutuwai has
given me entire relief from pain and
has given me new life.”
(Mrs.) ELLEN AMOS, Croydon.
“I was told my daughter had
INCURABLE PSORIASIS ... A short
course of Hutuwai has given amazing
results . . . She has lost all her sores,
and her health is greatly improved.”
(Mrs.) MARY TURNBULL,
Campsie.
“We are deeply grateful to Hutu-
wai. People who saw mother when
she came to me eighteen months ago
cannot get over how well she now
looks.”
—(Mrs.) W. E. BAKER,
Home Hill, N. Q’land.
“Now my hands (which were previ-
ously dead, twisted and entirely use-
less) are better, my limbs are flexible
again, and I have taken a new lease
of life again, thanks to Hutuwai.”
—ELIZABETH STEWART,
Forest Lodge, N.S.W.
“Since taking Hutuwai I am no
longer troubled with BLOOD PRES-
SURE and HEADACHES, and feel
like a new man.”
—J.K.
“1 am now relieved permanently of
all my Rheumatism, Neuritis and
Kidney Trouble sufferings.”
—(Mrs.) S. B. WOODWARD.
HUTuWAI
The Wonderful Natural Tonic That Everybody’s Taking
“HUTUWAI WORKED ABSOLUTE WONDERS.”
Mia Mia Street, GIRRAWEEN, N.S.W.
Messrs. Hutuwai Distributing Co., 7th October, 1937.
Dear Sirs,
As I consider my case has been one of an extremely bad nature, and only
by taking your Hutuwai have I made such a marvellous recovery, I am setting
out the history of my case in the hope that it will help others to regain their
health also.
In 1917 I was a Driver in the 3rd Divisional Train of the A.1.F., and was
discharged from the Army with NEURASTHENIA. In June, 1936, I had to be
carried home from work as a Ganger on the road. When the doctor came he
said I had ANGINA PECTORIS, and sent me to Hospital, where I was told
I had only three days to live. My wife decided that if I was going to die she
would rather have me at home. I lay in bed for over nine months, during which
time RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS set in; I was too weak to move, and had to
be spoon-fed and lifted in and out of bed. The pains were very severe, and my
joints would lock and would have to be forcibly straightened by my wife. One
Mr. Frank Clarke.
day my wife heard over the wireless where
Hutuwai was giving great relief for any Rheu-
matic complaints; and my old Army complaint
NEURASTHENIA had developed again to such
an extent that I would often lay in a coma for
days, that my wife decided to give me a course
of Hutuwai. At this time, too, I was just skin
and bone. Hutuwai soon started to give me
relief; in fact, it worked absolute wonders. After
the fourth bottle ALL MY PAINS DIS-
APPEARED, and I was able to get in and out
of bed and walk, about the house by myself, and
I can now do many little odd jobs about the
place, such as mending the children’s shoes; and
1 take my walk night and morning.
My nerves are now very steady again; in
fact, I can thread a needle; as a matter of fact,
Hutuwai gave me such a new lease of life that
I felt like dancing for the sheer joy of living.
During my illness my weight was reduced to
about 6st., and I am now about Bst. 71b.; and every day I am improving in
health, strength and vigor. I have had about 25 bottles, and intend continuing
to take it, if only as a tonic.
I am very well known in this District, and friends who saw me at my
worst are very surprised at the amazing improvement Hutuwai has made in
veritably lifting me from what was thought was my deathbed to a return to
normal, healthy life.
I have recommended Hutuwai to many others, and shall continue to do
so, as my experience proves what a wonderful Remedy and Nerve Tonic
Hutuwai is; and will gladly interview any person wishing to see me and to
hear my story from my own lips.
Yours, full of new life,
(Signed) FRANK CLARKE.
What HUTUWAI
has done for Digger
Clarke and thous-
ands of other Aus-
tralians it can also
do for YOU.
HUTUWAI
MUST
DO
YOU
GOOD
Further Proof of the Health-
giving Power of Hutuwai
“I feel like a new man . . . X-ray
photo has failed to reveal the slightest
sign of the DUODENAL ULCER.”
—L. F. HUNT, Darlinghurst.
“I was seriously affected in both
feet and almost in despair of ever
being right again. Hutuwai is truly a
DIVINE, HEAVEN-SENT REMEDY.”
—H. MATTHEWS, Master Mariner.
“Expected her to die . . . now plays
usual games with other children.”
—MARY PETHYBRIDGE, Brooklyn.
“Thought I was going to die . . .
now I can walk for miles with plea-
sure.”
-—(Mrs.) ROSE HYMAN, Narrabeen.
“HUTUWAI IS WORTH ITS
WEIGHT IN GOLD ... I am recom-
mending Hutuwai to all my friends
and sufferers of Neuritis.”
—ALICE C. McMULLEN, Bankstown.
The powerful, natural medicinal pro-
perties of the Herbal Plant Juices
contained in
HUTUWAI
explain why HUTUWAI NATURAL
TONIC is achieving such amazing
results every day.
1*
mmm
Every day brings NEW EVIDENCE that HUTUWAI
succeeds where others have failed in the treatment of
ARTHRITIS, RHEUMATISM, NERVES,
BLOOD PRESSURE and KIDNEY TROUBLE.
f
df
Pronounce
HOO-
TOO.
THE BEST TONIC ON THE MARKET... BECAUSE IT IS NATURAL
Large Bottle
4/6
Also in 3/- Size.
Valuable DIET
CHART FREE.
Sold and recommended by CHEMISTS
and STORES throughout Australia.
If UNOBTAINABLE LOCALLY, SEND DIRECT TO HUTUWAI
DISTRIBUTING CO., DEPT. 84, 210 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
—Telephone, 82145; or 485 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
Cl—Telephone, MU4155. Post Free within N.S.W. and Victoria.
Elsewhere in Australia, Postage 1/- extra per bottle.
POST FREE IN N.S.W. AND VIC.
USE THIS COUPON
Hutuwai distributing Co.,
Dept. 84, 210 George Street, Sydney ;
or 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Please send me . bottles ox
Hutuwai. I enclose Postal Notes tor
NAME
ADDRESS


9
.X*
mm
-
m
i
I
-
- ~
8
m .,.
' *Wm
» XV | f
& HH
■
81:'
-
I> A
a
HP
SI
Jtaft!
§
7
■' ■ '~ f 'j
;
■
i i
f
S
vw<
■*l
IK
-
m
':i
:
v
.
1
■
/},
i
■■ mm
■I
I
fcv
,
:
' * V
1
\
■
: ..:
n
" . ■> _ '•
m
v ■-.
%Sllili
\ 1 .....
: >■■
*
Sft
m
mk
*S
\ !
\
a


COMMUNISM ENLIGHTENING THE WORLD.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6 d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the■ British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
STILL "UP TO THE HILT."
Mr. Lyons and the Government he leads in the so-
called “foreign policy” of “Tune in with Britain”
have fair cause to feel aggrieved when former news-
paper champions of that credo now turn and demand
a show of independence.
While it suited their pro-League book, these
journals had no complaint against Australian foreign
policy being reduced to such a formula. On
the contrary, they held it to be most admirable, and
when Mr. Lyons pronounced Australia to be with
Britain “up to the hilt” —in sanctions, in keeping the
League of Nations the “cornerstone of foreign policy”
and, in truth, in any foolhardy business that a tem-
porary English politician favored—they called him a
statesman and a patriot.
At least Mr. Lyons and his Government deserve
credit for being consistent. They have managed so
far without a foreign policy, other than “Yes, Mr.
Baldwin,” “Yes, Mr. Eden,” “Yes, Mr. Chamberlain,”
and they propose to go on managing without one.
They have not changed face. They are no different
now from what they were when they let Australia
in for the stupid experiment of sanctions, without a
protest or a constructive suggestion. They fell for
that —even to the shabbiness of sacking Mr. Hughes
for his since-justified doubts on sanctions —not because
they felt to a man that it was something well worth
risking another generation of Australian youth to
uphold, but only because that happened to be Britain’s
foreign policy at the moment.
Britain having learnt something from that experi-
ence and come to realise that it was merely, in the
phrase of Lord Halifax, “drifting along in dangerous
times,” with the certainty of the 1914 shambles over
again if it kept on drifting along, the brake has been
urgently applied: Except on the point of consistency
in doing nothing, the Commonwealth Government
merits no praise in now obediently falling into line.
The action is welcome, as it happens, but that does
not make admirable figures of the actors. In this
drama of foreign policy they are the same dumb
mutes of the sanctions scene.
In these circumstances their former most stalwart
newspaper champion cuts a comic figure in blaming
Whitehall for allowing the impression to gain ground
that “in any emergency Dominion opinion must fall
in behind the British Government because, in the last
resort, it can have no other choice.” That impression
was felt by many at the time of the sanctions folly,
but few were so foolish as to lay the blame on Whitehall.
It can safely roost at Canberra, where, ever since Mr.
Lyons made it the catch-cry of his Government’s first
election, “Tune in with Britain” has ruled in lieu of
the vigorous Australian foreign policy which Aus-
tralians have a right to expect, and should demand,
from their Commonwealth Parliament.
Australians have a right, also, to be impartially
informed on changes and proposed changes in British
foreign policy affecting them. Especially is that neces-
sary while their Commonwealth Government is satis-
fied to hold them committed to follow that policy
blindly. Impartiality is about the last thing to be
expected from cable services, or from radio services
which merely repeat cable-lies elaborated with such
dramatic effects as editors and other broadcasting
spruikers have the talent to perform.
The demand for impartial information —reason-
able enough coming from the ordinary man bewildered
by the welter of lies and contradictions—has even.been
uttered by one of the Great Dailies. In the same
issue—prominently displayed, with large-type head-
ings—it published the latest London “Daily Herald”
scare-concoction on the Spanish threat to Gibraltar,
of a piece with the slightly-earlier “News-Chronicle”
story of Mussolini’s 50,000 new troops for Spain, the
“Daily Sketch” fabrication of an Italian plot to sink
the British Navy and the rest of the regularly-featured
lying reports which the other day caused London’s
“World’s Press News” to protest:
In the golden age of journalism, which we seem to
be leaving behind, it was the news that mattered, not
what the particular desires of the proprietor of a paper
happened to be.
While that is, if anything, an understatement of
the position in Australia, a timely frank statement on
foreign affairs should be an Australian Prime Minis-
ter’s regular contribution to the sane guidance of
this country. Mr. Lyons is contributing nothing, either
towards the guidance of Australia or the upholding of
truth, when he states, as he did last week, that there
has been no change in British foreign policy. Of
course, there has been a change —a tremendous change
for the better.
Having no foreign policy of their own, Mr.
Lyons and his Government would cut a better figure
by acknowledging that plain state of affairs, taking
the country into their confidence instead of relying
on palpable misstatement to cover up their momentary
confusion, and making a public resolve to rebuild for
Australia a loyal independence of outlook in foreign
affairs that would serve as a brake against the repeti-
tion of any such catastrophe as Mr. Eden.
With such a policy Mr. Lyons could rely on
Australia being with him “up to the hilt.”
Where Australia Lags.
In the midst of Australia’s general progressiveness it is
curious—it has struck expert investigators as inexplic-
able —that this country should be lagging far behind
almost the whole of the rest of the world in one
respect. That is in the establishing of free public
library services, regarded in most countries to-day as
an indispensable part of modern social life. Australia’s
lag in this has been put down to be as much as 50
years behind the times. One expert has estimated that,
given adequate funds, it would take us three years to
develop a library system up to the standard of those
functioning in England 20 years ago.
With a cause that must commend itself to every-
body who thinks about it, the Free Public Library
Movement here is certain to achieve results in time,
but for the present the position is much the same as
when the Munn-Pitt report—as drastic a criticism as
was ever penned to jolt a country awake —was pub-
lished some years back. It may yet turn out that
those critics were among the greatest benefactors Aus-
tralia has had. Geelong (Vic.) can be instanced as
an example of results through their jolting. They hit
nowhere harder than Geelong. Its library, they
reported, was one of the poorest in Victoria, the book
collection so completely out of date that it attracted
only 55 subscribers from a district of about 40,000
inhabitants. No new books had been added in five
years; it had been starved into a state of uselessness.
Last year the Vic. Library Association “Journal”
reported an up-and-doing Geelong Free Library
Committee, with £5OO of its own and a Government
grant of £lOO to spend on books immediately, and
£l2OO earmarked towards bringing the library up to
date.
That, however, is Geelong ; it is not at all repre-
sentative of Australia.
What the Free Library people are mostly up
against is an apparently almost unshiftable com-
placency. A good example of this is the statement
in the Sydney City Council’s elaborately-printed 150th
Anniversary publication that “the city is served by four
well-equipped public libraries.” The latest Common-
wealth, Year-Book is just as complacent. Sydney’s
“well-equipped public libraries” are the Fisher, which
belongs, of course, to the University; the Mitchell,
which is a splendid storehouse of Australiana, but in
no sense a general public library ; the Municipal, which
does good service considering its .limitations, but has
been accurately enough described as “two rooms over
a wineshop”; and the Public Library, to describe
which as “well-equipped” is to wildly abuse even a
Bumble’s license.
Outside these the library position is so wretched
that only the other day the latest of a battalion of
experts who have commented on it added another
trenchant report to the pile. Having toured inspecting
overseas libraries at the Carnegie Corporation’s expense,
this expert —F. Bell, of the Municipal Library—declared
the utter neglect of public libraries by the suburban
municipalities of Sydney to be almost incredible. He
reported that to get into line with municipalities else-
where the Sydney suburbs would need to raise
£lOO,OOO, so great is the lag.
Viewing the whole Australian scene as represented
by available statistics, another expert —E. Salter
Davies, Director of Education in Kent (Eng.)—told
the New Education Fellowship at Canberra last year
that “Australia is by far the most backward of all
the British Dominions in the provision of reading
matter for its citizens.” He countered the usual argu-
ment that because of Australia’s glorious climate the
people here do not want to read by instancing Cali-
fornia, with an equally good climate and an admirable
system of county libraries; Los Angeles, about the
size of Sydney, has 48 libraries. He mentioned as
well that Manchester, which has about half the popu-
lation of Sydney, now has 25 libraries, and “spends
more on free library service than Australia does.”
That particular critic went close to touching on one
of the most urgent reasons why up-to-date free public
library services are especially needed in Australia when
he said that in certain eventualities he could imagine
“the isolation of Australia from Great Britain becom-
ing its greatest danger.” That this is a standing danger
has been well demonstrated over the past half-dozen
years, in which time this country has been shockingly
misinformed on foreign affairs. No country in the
world is so vulnerable to tendentious propaganda as
Australia is, and one world event after another has
proved how wildly Australians have been misled
in these past few years. The reason Mr. Eden’s
resignation and the present direction of British foreign
policy have been a surprise, and even a shock, to many
apparently thinking Australians is simply that for years
cables from which most of them draw all their infor-
mation have been loaded to the hilt with propaganda.
The need for knowing all sides of matters that
are troubling the world has become vital to this
country. Free public libraries up to the standard of
those functioning in other parts of the world are one
sound means of supplying that need.
Ballarat.
With the 150th Anniversary an occasion for Sydney
celebration, and the Melbourne and Adelaide centen-
aries still recent, there is a chance that the 100th
birthday of Ballarat may not receive the national
attention it deserves. This would be a pity, for the
nation owes much to Ballarat.
The democratic nature of its political structure
may not date from the Eureka Stockade, but demo-
crats rightly cherish the memory of what was done
there in 1854. For Victoria it was the beginning
of a better system of government, and in Ballarat
itself the affair of the Stockade had effec/s which
have endured. The diggers defended themselves
because their sense of justice was outraged by the
insolence of Melbourne officialdom; and through
the years Ballarat has retained varying degrees of this
independence of Melbourne and of the rest of
Australia
Between 1851 and 1936 Ballarat produced
£82,000,000 worth of gold. But it realised before
1870 that it could not live by goldmining alone. The
lesson was forced upon it: in four years, 1866-1870,
the population dropped from 58,000 to 42,000. In
1869-70, Ballarat goldmining scrip slumped in nominal
value by an amount equal to two-thirds of the total
revenue of Victoria for that year. One era was end-
ing, but another had already begun.
Actually, the anniversary Ballarat is celebrating
this week is that of the arrival in February, March
or April 100 years ago—the month is disputed, but
the year is not —of William Cross Yuille, the first
pastoralist. Discovery of gold 13 years later drove
wool production very much into the background;
but by 1865 there had been sufficient revival to
encourage the formation of what is still Australia s
only provincial bank. Most of the early business
of the Ballarat Banking Co. was confined to the
discounting of bills, and this sound little concern still
conducts a class of business different from that of
other banks.
By the time the bank was established there were
flourishing business houses to cater for the population
attracted to the diggings. Tunbridge, Tyler, Crocker
and Davis, to name just a few of them, made their
own overseas contacts, and the Ballarat drapery and
furnishing concerns still carrying these names are
to-day dealing with many of the descendants of the
U.K. manufacturers with whom those arrangements
were made 70 to 80 years ago. This commercial
independence had far-reaching effects on a later
Flinders-lane ; more and more Victorian country busi-
nesses began to follow Ballarat’s early lead as soon
as populations justified direct importation. Now
many of the larger overseas manufacturers conduct
their own Australian agencies.
The development of the greatest importance to
modern Ballarat was the changeover from alluvial-
to quartz-mining, which began late in the ’fifties.
Sinking of deep leads in quest of gutter-gold below
the basalt turned diggers into miners, while increased
use of machinery set up a demand for mechanics.
Industrial Australia, as well as industrial Ballarat,
had its genesis in the new mining technique.
To supply the machinery requirements of the
mines, foundries sprang up ; and they kept going when
mines closed down. The Phoenix and the Victoria
began making railway engines; in Victoria, Westralia
and Maoriland a few old Ballarat locos, are still burn-
ing coal. When Governments began to establish their
own railway workshops, the Ballarat foundries were
hard hit, but men they had trained then laid the
foundations of the industries that enable Ballarat to
support a population of 43,000 in 1938 when, with
the exception of a few out-of-town mines, the only
gold is produced by fossickers.
The present head of the John works, valves from
which are part of steam, water, air, oil and gas services
in all parts of the Commonwealth and Maoriland,
served his time in the Phoenix before the works that
bear the family name were started in 1896. The 60-
year-old Cowley’s Ironworks, bossed to-day by another
John, sends boilers and engines all over Australia.
Ronaldson and Tippett farm implements are likewise
on properties in every State. Ballarat beer, Ballarat-
cured ham and bacon, Ballarat-made textiles, flour,
biscuits, tannery products and tiles all go well beyond
their city of origin. About 320 Ballarat factories,
employing some 4000 people, are estimated to produce
Australian manufactures valued at more than
£2,500,000 a year.
In 1870 Ballarat opened its School of Mines.
Graduates from the Ballarat School of Mines have
helped to develop fields in every part of the globe.
It was in Ballarat that H. V. McKay began
making the harvesters which every wheatgrowing
country knows. The Sutton who founded the inter-
state musical house sold concertinas and fiddles from
a Ballarat tent in 1853. Snow’s inter-State business
originated in Ballarat. Forebears of the Walkers now
making locos, at Maryborough (Q.) were associated
with one of Ballarat’s early foundries.
Modern Ballarat justifiably prides itself on being
an industrial, agricultural, educational and cultural
centre. It points to its six public schools, to its
statues, its South-street competitions—they grew out
of an eisteddfod started by Welsh miners in 1855 —
and to the many notable Australians it has produced
and educated: statesmen, writers, artists and musi-
cians, as well as engineers and counting-house kings.
Ballarat has been an inspiration to the multitudes of
its sons who have gone to other parts of Australia
and the world; loved for its beauty as well as its
history and their association with it. It is a city of
noble park lands and gardens, public and private ;of
spacious streets and lovely trees. Its builders built
well.
So this week the national hat should be off to
the Ballarat which outlived the gold that made it.
Even though the real arrival-date of the first settler
is somewhat doubtful, it is another Australian occasion
well worth celebrating.
L. M.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Fruits of the Forty-hour Week.
At the Queensland Labor Convention, held at
Mackay, advocates of the 40-hour working week tried
to force their nostrum down Premier Forgan Smith’s
throat. He said he would accept it “if the Govern-
ments in Victoria and New South Wales” accepted it
also, but not otherwise. If either of those Govern-
ments introduced the 40-hour week independently, as
he was urged to do, it would “live to “rue it.”
Introduction of the 40-hour week would mean
in Queensland State departments alone an increased
annual expenditure of £700,000. It would mean also
that “labor costs in every section of industry to which
the new principle would apply would be increased
by 8.9 per cent., compared with labor costs in any
other State.” That would, of course, lead to increased
imports from other States, “to the detriment of Queens-
land workers.” The Convention shuddered, and
passed on to the next business.
Maoriland has a 40-hour week in Government
departments, factories and workshops. The effect
has been such that value of imports from Aus-
tralia has soared, from £2,571,000 in 1931-32 to
£6,944,000 in 1936-37, while value of exports to Aus-
tralia has risen only from £1,445,000 to £1,824,000.
And even while Mr. Forgan Smith was holding forth
on what the reckless adoption of the 40-hour week
would do to Queensland in increased costs and loss
of trade, Maoriland Labor was completing arrange-
ments for imposing heavier duties on “66 categories”
of manufactured goods imported from Australia.
The new tariff came into force on March 1. In
36 cases, while there is no increase of duties on
British goods, another 10 per cent, goes on Aus-
tralian soap, boots and shoes and other leather goods ;
another 10 per cent, on artificial-silk piece goods,
stationery, woodware, ironmongery and the like;
another 15 per cent on hosiery and rubber goods,
and another 20 per cent, on hats, caps, storage batteries
and wireless sets. Five per cent, has also been added
to the duties on some Australian articles, such as
fancy goods, jewellery, brushes and brooms, which
have hitherto been admitted at lower rates than corre-
sponding goods imported from other Dominions;
similarly, another 10 per cent, has been clapped on
electric cooking and heating appliances. And increases
of 5 per cent, on woollen piece goods and of 10 per
cent, on toilet preparations, paint and varnishes, ink
and pickles will make those duties higher than
the duties to which other Dominions are subject. It
is a queer time to be doing that sort of thing, and
it also seems strange that the duty on Australian still
wines should go up from 4s. to ss. 6d. a gallon.
The new tariff was the subject of negotiations
with Canberra. Australia would probably have fared
better if its Government had been less potato-minded
when the old subject of potatoes and oranges came
up. The Wellington negotiators intimated that they
were prepared to admit Australian oranges from dis-
tricts other than those infested with fruit-fly, and,
“subject to satisfactory marketing of Maoriland and
Cook Island citrus fruit,” their Government is going
to do so. But Canberra was adamant about spuds,
being still of the opinion that the walls of the Com-
monwealth would topple if Australians could buy
M.L. potatoes at a fair price. Still, even the Canberra
gentlemen should have contrived to learn from what
the Maoriland gentlemen told them that the 40-hour
week brings with it trouble in different forms and
considerable quantities.
Twenty-one More.
Moscow has been the scene of another set of State
“trials.” The 21 victims emerged from prison in the
usual confessional mood. Most of them were charged
with espionage for Britain and Germany under the
orders of Trotsky—a fortuitous circumstance at a
moment when Britain appears likely to make friends
with Germany arid Italy. Others, doctors, confessed
to the murder of, among others, the ancient writer
Maxim Gorki. ,
Rykov, one of the 21, sat in many Ministries.
Bukharin, who looked as if he wouldn’t hurt a cock-
roach, was the author of the Communist Manifesto,
the bible of every true believer. The Communist
Manifesto has circulated in tens of millions, and two
special editions have been printed by the Australian
Communist party.
On the eve of the trials a conference of the
anti-Lang Labor faction met in Newcastle. There
are Communists in this faction, and, partly for that
reason, it isn’t doing well. The conference was opened
by Mr. A. Outteridge, president of the Newcastle
Trades Hall Council. According to the “new” “Labor
Daily,”
Information was received that the chairman, Mr.
Outteridge, had been selected by members of the New-
castle branch of the A.R.U. to attend the May Day
celebrations in Russia. The announcement was warmly
applauded, and Mr. Outteridge received the congratu-
lations of the conference.
Other members of the faction are also going to
Moscow for May Day. It is to be hoped they wilt
remember not to mention Bukharin’s bible or express
a desire to place a wreath on the spot where he got
the bullet in the back of the neck.
--
Electioneering.
Narrabri is part of the Commonwealth electorate
of Gwydir. Gwydir was lost last year to Mr. W. J.
Scully (Labor) in spite of U.A.P.-U.C.P. assurances
that the U.A.P.-U.C.P. had “given” the electors of
Gwydir boons reckoned at £1,308,504, and that initial
work on “the great Namoi and Gwydir water schemes”
alone would cost £2,000,000.
Narrabri is also part of the State electorate of
Namoi. In Namoi three years ago Mr. Scully made
things interesting for Mr. Sinclair, now State Minister
of Lands. In the Narrabri subdivision of Namoi the
voting was 1513 for Scully and 1392 for Sinclair.
Visiting Narrabri exactly three weeks before the
State general election, Mr. Spooner, the Minister of
Works, promised the local council £16,000 towards
waterworks, £24,000 towards sewerage works, £5OO
towards a clubhouse for the local bowlers, the same
for improvements to the aerodrome and £750 for
showground improvements.
The principal U.A.P. newspaper records that Mr.
Spooner was accompanied to Narrabri by Mr. Sinclair
and by the Chief Secretary, Mr. Chaffey.
Boggabri is also part of the Namoi electorate.
There Mr. Spooner promised £2OOO towards the cost
of improvements in Central Park if £5OO were made
available by the Narhoi Shire.
Mr. Spooner also agreed favorably to consider
a substantial grant available to the trustees of
the showground to erect new buildings.
This is liat —electioneering. Possibly the Greeks had
another name for it: the Greeks were downy birds.
Foreign News.
From raw material to finished product:
Most overseas news published in Australian newspapers
is rehashed from the columns of British and American dailies
and from material supplied by British and American news-
agencies. Before dispatch from the country of origin messages
are often colored by censorship demands. There is official
“supervision” in the U.S.S.R., Germany, Italy, Spain, Portugal,
Poland, Austria, Hungary, Balkan States, Japan, parts of
China, Brazil, Siam and some of the foreign-owned African
territories. Degrees of censorship exist in other European.
African, Indian, Central and South American territories.
British and U.S. countries, Sweden, Norway, Finland, France,
Mexico, Argentina and Chile are relatively free from news-
interterence.
U.S.S.R. news appearing in foreign newspapers is subject
to constant censorship, open or underground. The same
applies, in varying degree, to news from Italy, Germany, Japan
and Spain. Unless correspondents in these countries risk
deportation, they cannot always tell what they know. They
can’t argue with the censor, and if their stories offend the
officials on whom they rely for tips it is “good night.” Within
the major “supervised” countries there is equally close cen-
sorship. On some domestic as well as all foreign events, the
Soviet authorities dictate Russian editorial policies. Italian
editors get a daily guide, per confidential Government circular,
as to policy trends and the handling of certain news. German
journalists must belong to a guild, and Hitler’s lieutenants
hold the right to expel members whose attitude or opinions
are at all displeasing. In each of these countries news flowing
in from the outside world is edited to fit home policy.
Paul Julius Reuter founded the first news-agency. The
service still carrying his name is a British one which has
never received a Government subsidy; its object was to
collect news from all over the world and sell it to newspapers
in every country The U.S.A.’s Associated Press, United Press
and Hearst services operate on similar lines. Under Hitler,
the bureau which succeeded the pre-war German agency of
Wolff’s, the French Havas, Italian Stefani and Japanese Domei
receive different proportions of financial encouragement from
their home Governments, and each writes a proportion of
home policy into the “news” messages transmitted to over-
seas newspaper subscribers. In brief, each is wholly or
partly propagandist.
Latin-American States offer the best examples of European
agency competition. By reason of Government subsidies,
European agencies have been able to undersell the privately-
owned U.S.A. and British services which practically cornered
the South American market after the war.
As many Australians have found out for themselves, there
are often propaganda slants to newsreel releases and short-
wave radio programmes. Most radio propaganda comes by
short wave, with musical trimmings—and between January,
1936, and January, 1938, world short-wave stations increased
from approximately 100 to almost 300. At time of writing,
Australia is represented at an international communications
conference in Cairo. One ticklish job ahead of the Cairo
delegates is the finding of methods satisfactory to the majority
of countries represented at conference of policing the ether
sufficiently to prevent warring propagandists from cutting into
air-corridors which, under international agreement, should be
the exclusive talking territory of other countries.
This is the newspaper-radio news dissemination back-
ground. Intense nationalism is awakening old prejudices
and creating new ones. Reasonably correct interpretation of
world news demands constant vi<ni ance anc j extertsive study of
well-informed periodicals published at home and abroad.
Otherwise, news from overseas will continue to resemble a
boarding-house stew.
What Is Privilege For?
On January 20, Mr. John Thomas Lang gave what
he was pleased to call “evidence” at a very expensive
public inquiry into his charges against all and sundry
touching the sale of the N. S. Wales Government
pipeworks. He had described that transaction as a
“swindle perpetrated by members of the Inner Group
of the U.A.P. for the pecuniary benefit of those
members,” and mentioned names.
It was suggested to the witness that he might
have repeated his charges in the newspaper he then
controlled. He was astonished and indignant. “What
is Parliamentary privilege for?” he asked.
Justice Halse Rogers conducted the inquiry under
royal commission. In substance he reported that
“there is no foundation for any charge of fraud or
corruption against any of the persons named by Mr.
Lang in Parliament, or by his counsel before me.”
He exonerated the Minister, Mr. Spooner, and declared
that “a good price was obtained.”
Similar charges were made by Mr. Lang in respect
of the sale of the State brickworks and the State metal
quarries. They also were categorically dismissed. “It
cannot be said,” his Honor remarked, “either that the
brickworks were given away or that friends of the
Premier—even in the widest sense —received any
preferential treatment in respect of the brickworks
sale. Mr. Lang alleged “mystery, secrecy and sup-
pression.” His Honor was unable to discover any
trace of “mystery, secrecy or suppression ; so far as
I can see, there never was any reason to cloak or
suppress anything.”
The same with the metal quarries sale: “The
negotiations were initiated openly and on a business-
like footing; there was no secrecy, no cloaking, no
mystery.” And “on the question of whether accept-
ance of the tender was honest, the answer must be in
the affirmative.”
There were features of the pipeworks sale which
ought to be carried further. Employees who became
members of the purchasing syndicate and went on
working received what seems to have been grossly
extravagant compensation, and on their behalf there
were made what Halse Rogers, J., describes as “defi-
nitely misleading representations, which created a false
impression upon the members of the Tender Com-
mittee,” as to the extent to which employees would be
interested in the new concern. There was “deliberate
evasion of the requirements of the Crown Solicitor” ;
in fact, “deliberate deception.” But here again Justice
Halse Rogers reported that the evidence “entirely
disproved” the Lang charge that “the Minister got
in touch with the syndicate’s agent and obtained from
him a declaration as a ‘blind.’ ”
“What is Parliamentary privilege for?” The
N. S. Wales Parliament will have to ask itself that
question in a spirit very different from the spirit in
which it was put to counsel by venomous old Lang.
Parliamentary privilege becomes an instrument of the
rankest injustice when used for the publication of base-
less libels on private citizens, with complete protec-
tion for the libeller. Preserved, and employed in that
degraded form, it may imperil the existence of Parlia-
ment by exposing that institution to hatred and con-
tempt.
A Word for Binghi.
At Darwin last week an aboriginal walked into a
house, attacked a white woman, attacked another
who stood in his way as he was trying to escape, and
then took to the bush.
Had this happened in New Guinea there would
have been no national stir. In the Mandated Terri-
tory scarcely a sitting of the Criminal Court passes
but a flogging is prescribed for a coon who has “in-
sulted” a European woman. The unpleasant affair at
Darwin led to talk of lynching and an outcry
against Government laxity.
The case is a rare one. Even in the earliest days
it was recorded that, though plundering by natives
was rife round Sydney, they rarely resorted to violence
where there was no resistance. Cases of criminal
assaults on white women were unknown. The same
has been true right through the continent. Time and
again white women have been captured by blacks
after shipwreck and have not been molested. It has
not been possible to say the same about the treatment
of native women taken by whites.
On the whole, Binghi’s record of behavior has
been a remarkably good one. When he has killed
whites it has generally been because they deprived him
of his hunting-grounds or invaded his sacred places
or interfered with his women or prevented him from
using water in a countryside where water was scarce
But his killing was generally a clean job. He had
none of the liking for torture which characterised the
Red Indian.
In civilisation his record has been as good. Pure
abos. rarely figure in the kind of crimes against women
which sometimes disgrace whites, even when they
have acquired most of the other vices of civilisation.
In this, they are almost unique among savage peoples.
The Slump in Wool.
Eric Hitchins, from Cranbrook (W.A.):
The 1938 wool slump appears to have served one useful
purpose; it has prompted the average woolgrower to use his
own brains as never before.
Having been induced to accept the 1929-33 years as inevit-
able, and to believe that salvation lay in “meeting the market,”
we gave good wool away, ostensibly to undersell artificial
substitutes —and watched those industries flourish while our
own went broke.
The “better times ahead” promised as a reward for this
needless sacrifice proved only a dream. The losses and debts
of thousands of financially-crippled graziers are the concrete
facts.
There can be no real prosperity for the wool industry
until there are provided marketing safeguards that will involve
a complete change of policy. This has been the view of the
smaller Westralian growers for years. They believe that the
present auction system gives no protection whatever against
the highly-organised buying trade. They have fought for a
minimum reserve price for the Australian clip. Failure to
obtain it is mainly due to the opposition of the Australian
Woolgrowers’ Council, which has each year turned the proposal
down, just as it turned down the Wool Inquiry Committee’s
report—virtually the same recommendation.
The Commonwealth Government has, of course, taken all
this as a heaven-sent opportunity for doing nothing.
Now, at long last, the smaller growers and the Farmers
and Settlers’ Association in N. S. Wales have put similar
proposals before the council. This time the matter was deemed
worthy of consideration; but it is to be referred back to
affiliated organisations. Then, some months later, it will be
decided in London whether there shall be a wool-marketing
committee in Australia to put a reserve price on Australian
wool. Could Gilbert and Sullivan beat it?
Instead of wool prices recovering immediately, as would
assuredly have been the case if buyers had been made to
realise that the old state of affairs was at an end, an assurance
has practically been given that there will be no change this
season—and buyers have, in effect, been warned of a possible
future danger.
Will the majority of woolgrowers be given proper oppor-
tunity of voting? Reference to graziers’ associations may mean
anything—or nothing. Consideration —of a sort —could be
given by an executive composed of half a dozen old Tories
who have opposed this very thing for years.
Again, in the event of the Wool Marketing Executive
being set up, it is not too early to ask all woolgrowers how
it should be elected. It would be possible for present repre-
sentatives of graziers’ associations to meet and elect each other.
And however highly one may regard these gentlemen, the
cold fact is that they are no good for the job.
One would not expect a brewery owner to advocate pro-
hibition, or the governors of the Bank of England to champion
Douglas Credit. Neither can these old leaders implement
doctrines they have always condemned.


Society
" AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Xo”: Descendants of old identities
who have been invited to Ballarat’s cen-
tenary celebrations have probably been
blaming the printer for the appearance
of two “a’s” in the middle of the muni-
ciple handle. Ballaarat, however, is the
official spelling, and Ballaarat it is in
official circles and on official communi-
cations. According to -some Vic. his-
torians, William Cross Yuille, the Glas-
gow settler whose arrival is now being
celebrated, called his run Ballarat. Years
later, when the town began to establish
itself, Ballaarat was adopted, the authori-
ties of the day claiming that Yuille’s
v/ord came from an abo. term meaning
bent elbow, and therefore required the
extra “a.” The derivation doubtless ap-
pealed to early gold-chasers, who were
pretty good at elbow-bending.
* * * *
“Jury”: Despite a vast bulk of ex-
hibits, ranging from hundredweights of
old iron to bottles of soft drink, the
prosecution of four men in Melbourne for
the murder of truck-driver Demsey was
unsuccessful, the Judge directing the jury
to acquit. An unusual feature was that
three of the accused went into the box.
The three were re-arrested on charges of
pilfering old iron ; the fourth was already
on remand on a similar charge. Sen-
sational rumors dished up by newspapers
concerning secret consignments of valu-
able cargo had no place in the trial.
* * * *
“Esters”: “Wodgil” claims that the
Italian vin ordinaire Chianti is a claret
(by which he means presumably a Bor-
deaux type, since there is no such wine
as claret) “on the evidence of my eye
and palate.” No doubt that is so, but
I am of opinion that the evidence would
go to pot under cross-examination. I
can think of no Australian red wine out-
side the class reserved for vinegar-mak-
ing which resembles Chianti. Let “W.”
get a bottle of Hunter River red wine, a
flask of Chianti (any Greek or Italian
merchant in Sydney can supply this last)
and a bottle of a recognised Chateau
Bordeaux and submit them to the judg-
ment of a few peers. No one could fail
to spot the vital difference. I believe
the statement of “W.” that the Italian
sailors took away a lot of Australian
red wine, but doubt it reminded them of
Chianti. More likely they wanted some-
thing to take the taste of the Italian stuff
out of their mouths.
* * * *
“Simmer and Jack”: “Mac Murphy”
(B. 23/2/’3B) must be blessed with the
national gift of second-sight if he can find
in my par. about the kilt anything sug-
gesting that the Scots Guards wear it,
especially as I never mentioned the Low-
land regiment. My acquaintance at first
hand with the 3rd Foot Guards goes back
close on 40 years, and apart from their
pipe band, which does wear the fillibeg,
I never heard of the Highland petticoat
in connection with them. I am thor-
oughly in accord with the curse hurled
by “M.” at the idiotic craze for assuming
the kilt which has broken out in the
C.M.F. and with his animadversions on
the damsels who prance about in male
garb.
* * * *
“Mak”: If Ballarat (Vic.) municipal
electors had voted with the one-track
purpose of having a typical city council
for their centenary year, they couldn’t
have bettered the 1938 position. The
Town Clerk and eight of the dozen coun-
cillors, including the Mayor, were born
in Ballarat, three of them in the ’sixties.
Two of the four “foreigners” have been
there for 48 and 53 years respectively,
and the average age of the whole coun-
cil is close on 65. But on the other
hand, Ballarat’s member in the State
Assembly has been the youngest in the
House for years.
* * * *
“S ”; pj ve thousand Maoris from all
over M.L. are about to descend on King
Koroki at Ngaruawahia, where a house
has been built for him and is to be
ceremonially opened. A feature of the
shivoo will be the launching of an ancient
canoe which Princess Te Puea had recon-
ditioned after it was recovered from the
Waikato heads, where it had been sunk
in the Maori wars. A good time will
probably be had by all except Koroki —
“Hold on a mo; you've forgot y'r change."
he is only a boy, and at the Waitangi
celebrations slumped along with his head
down, apparently not taking the slightest
interest in the proceedings. The Gover-
nor-General is to be asked to Ngarua-
wahia. At Waitangi there were polite
speeches in English, and sage remarks in
Maori, from natives who realised that
the treaty whose centenary they were
celebrating sealed the loss of their land
to the pakeha.
* * * *
“T.”: Doctors have been saying alarm-
ing things about the increase of
gonorrhoea among young people in
N.S.W.; and they blame nigger-dances
and the spotting habit. It may also be
a by-product of the manufacture of
smut, and of the exploitation of sex in the
popular press. The semi-nude young
female has become the staple of the
illustrated section in even “respectable”
papers. Big-hipped, big-bosomed and
often striking an attitude designed to
exaggerate frontal development and
abdominal curves, she grins at the public
from almost every page. And there are
writers, as well as photographers, only
too ready to minister to the vanity of
minxes who pose in scraps of rayon,
and to spread the legend that Our Girls
are all beautiful and wonderful. This
sort of thing must go to the silly heads
of brats of both sexes, and when one
or other or both become sozzled the v.d.
clinic may be the grim sequel.
* J * * *
“Pawang”: The Dean of Canterbury
showed a profound ignorance of human
nature when, sponsoring an appeal
against the flogging of two young men
in England for robbery with violence,
he gave as his reason that “public
satisfaction at the sentence is due not to
the belief that society is made safer, but
to deeper emotional satisfaction at the
thought that pain will be inflicted.” In
other words, the eminent ecclesiastic
accuses the English public of being sadists.
A sadist is an individual who, owing to
some early emotional experience, has
pleasant associations around the inflic-
tion of pain. Sodeman was in this cate-
gory. He admitted that he felt a sensa-
tion of delight when he committedl his
murders, and firmly believed he must
go on committing them. How many
people would have a similar feeling?
Not one motorist in 10,000 can leave
even a wounded dog writhing on the
road and have a good conscience about
it. Despite the dean, public satisfaction
over floggings is due to the belief that
society is made safer thereby.
* * *
“Pierjumper”: With the present boom
in scrap metals some of the “heads”
around Fremantle must feel like kick-
ing themselves. Just a few years ago
half a dozen big steel hulks, including
the County of Caithness, the Thornlie-
bank and others of equal tonnage, were
taken outside Rottnest and sunk. Only
by the barest margin has the Samuel
Plimsoll escaped the same fate. The
reason given for such massacre of good
useful metal was that Fremantle simply
had no place where a disused hulk could
be laid up. Just outside the harbor a
fine Swedish vessel, the Lygnern, a few
years ago grounded on reef. Bought
finally for £25 she looked like becoming a
liability to her owner until the present
boom set the oxy torches to work. Now
only a few feet of plate show above the
waves. Scrap steel is even hauled 400
miles from Kalgoorlie to the coast.
* * * *
“Lowan”: If “Crash” has sighted four
Jewish A.Bs. (B. 2/3/’3B) he has wit-
nessed a rarity. For my part I’d sooner
comb Pitt-street for pterodactyls than
beat the fields of manual labor for a
brace of Jews. In clearing, sawmill-
ing, cockying, droving, shearing, sweat-
ing in engineering shops, stone-cracking
and mining—all of which generally carry
cosmopolitan assortments of workers —I
have never encountered or heard of a son
of Abraham.
“Onam”: “Crash” has never heard of
a Jewish master mariner or mate. Writer
can swear to one. For years he kept a little
tobacco-barber business at the Wharf-
street end of Queen-street, Brisbane No
one then connected him with the sea-
faring life. Years later a launch turne
up at Tamata Government station in-
Papua to say the Governor, Judge and
other potentates from the Merrie Eng-
land would be up next day. e c ap m
charge was my old . , barb . er ' t s >b^c^° l^ ls
acquaintance. He told me he had held a
masters ticket before taking o s p
and, peezness having been ro en, au
gone back to the sea as first mate ot the
M.E.
• *;
“Texter”: The aversion of Jewry to
th e sea seems to be of old standing. The
Bible concernec i a lmost exclusively with
h ’ istory of Palestine, has not a good
J f
word .? V . p refuse from the
Noah built h.s ark as a refuge from me
sea. »as heaved be
of
h There is scarcely a reference to
New Testament that
V l6 ot,edl . p i „
<£« not refer to its dangers. Paul was
snipwreckea. * * *
* „ YT „ m o/t/’trt ; n his
AC. . X.T. ? (B. 2/3 '3B) n
sketch of Lennon s Hotel, Bnsban , n
the long ago overlooks one important
feature. Situated just opposite the
Supreme Court buildings in George-street
it was the home from home of the lega
fraternity of all sorts and sizes down to
newly-indentured articled clerks. In the
easygoing nineties more than one
Judge dropped in there tor a quick one
when the days toil was over. Lennons
was then renowned for the high quality
of its barmaids. Two of these at least
married into the profession and saw their
husbands elevated to the Bench.
# * * *
“Uncle Tom”: Katharine S. Prichard's
“Marlene” (B. 16/2/’3B) was timely.
Only the other day officialdom was
ordered by Perth’s head magistrate to
release its hooks from a quadroon
woman, 37 years of age, educated to
State school standard, with all the ap-
pearance of a pure white and eminently
capable of earning her living, though ham-
pered by the persistency with which her
employers were told they were employ-
ing an “aboriginal” and could do so
only under license.
* * * *
“Tham”: Where do burglars go for
the week-end? The gentleman who
called at my commodious King’s Cross
flat' (one gas-ring and four hairclips left
by previous tenant) is presumably
flaunting it somewhere with his tart, en-
joying the suitcase, bathing costume,
pyjamas, dressing-gown and shavmg-
soap which his discriminating taste led
him to select. Obviously it was a week-
end outfit he required; I’m relieved
that he spared my valuable plate, which
was parked in a glass of Milton for the
night.
HOW?
“How can girls go to boxing and wrestling matches
and still pretend to be feminine?”
—From letter to Sydney “D.T.”
Where two prognathous bruisers, beetle-browed,
Stand up to buffet one another’s frames
And earn from an appreciative crowd,
T hrilled by the speed and sureness of their
aims,
Enthusiastic masculine acclaims
For vicious jabs and shrewdly-planted blows,
You might conclude here was no place for
dames
Or damosels, but, there, one never knows.
When wrestlers twain, with brawny bulks en-
dowed,
Meet in these comprehensive modem games
Where hardly anything is disallowed
Save gouging, and a thund’rous roar pro-
claims
Some savage scissors grip that stings and
shames
Has brought the meaty melee to a close,
One hardly features dainty Mauds and Mames
Around the ring, but, then, one never knows.
The ladies of King Arthur’s Court were proud
To watch the blokes they counted as their
flames
In knightly jousts. Unflinching and uncowed
They gloried in their visored champions’
fames
And feats of skill, and who is there that
blames
Their partisanship? But in days like those
No gallant Called the ref. unseemly names
Or stopped a wattlesnoozer with his nose.
What lure i& there where rises long and loud
The yell of fight fans when the claret flows
For those to gentle womanliness vowed?
It has me beat. A fellow never knows.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Lespy”: A crowd was waiting for
the tram when a milkcart came round
the corner at high speed and tipped clean
over. We all gave a hand to put it right
side up, and as we stood looking at the
pool of milk spreading on the road a
man who had driven up in a car asked
the milkman if he would have to pay
for the wasted milk. The milko nodded,
whereupon the other took oft his hat,
dropped a florin in it, and turned to the
crowd saying, “What about a bob in?”
We all put in, and the milko seemed very
grateful. The tram showed up then,
and the others got aboard. I waited for
the next, saw the bloke who started the
bob-in drive away, and then asked the
milko if he knew who he was. “Yes,”
he said. “That’s the boss.”
* * * *
“Elgee”: Are the notices “Trespassers
will be prosecuted” worth the wood
they’re painted on? According to a
finding of Vic.’s C.J., Frederick Mann,
“Trespass is not a punishable offence
until the trespasser has been ordered to
leave and has refused to do so.” Also,
the Act gives owners no excuse to take
the law into their own hands and remove
trespassers with force and violence. All
the owner appears to be able to do is to
prosecute if a trespasser refuses to leave
after being requested to.
"I' m sick of hearin' about y'r first husband. Here, take this an' join him”
“Sakit Prut’’: Whether we like it or
not, a lot of us are going to take an
active interest in such actuarial matters
as lifework-values when the money has
to be raised for the national insurance
scheme. For example, the productive
working life of a healthy man averages
.40 years, from 20 to 60. Productives and
non-productives before and after these
ages cancel each other out. In each
year 52 Sundays, 52 half-Saturdays and
14 days of holidays, illness, etc., are non-
productive ; 3680 days, that is, out of
14,610. The balance, 10,930 productive
days, is your healthy man’s full life’s
working value if he is in employment
throughout it. If he survives to 70, he
will have lived 25,573 days, for 18,323
of which he has not worked but has been
supported by the value of his or some-
one else’s work. Add to this unemploy-
ment, unemployableness, strikes, war-
risks and rapid increase in the over-
-60 age-group, and one gets some
idea of the complications involved in
devising any successful scheme of the
kind.
“Rob Roy”: ThoSe old-time
outback girls had plenty of spirit.
Met an old chap on the track a
few years ago who was marked on
his back with an early-day station
brand. The story was that when a
young newchum jackeroo years
ago on a Queensland central-
west holding he had played fast
and loose with one of the boss’s
daughters, and when things be-
came serious decided to do a skip.
The night before his departure he
awoke from his sleep with a yell
and a terrific burning on his back.
There stood the girl with a hot sta-
tion brand in her hand. “If you
won’t marry me,” she said, “you'll
carry my brand.”
“Ex-Mister”: There’s history in house-
flags, even Australian ones. It is 51 years
since the red and blue triangles of the
Australian Steam Navigation Co. and the
white St. Andrew’s Cross of the Queens-
land Steamship Co. were combined to
form the present A.U.S.N. indicator. The
A.S.N. had grown out of the Hunter
River S.N. Co., floated in 1840; the
Q.S.S. was founded 20 years later by
“Bobby” Towns to assist his N.Q. in-
terests. Under the Mcllwraith immi-
gration scheme of the 1880’s, the British
India Steam Navigation Co. arranged a
merger through Gray, Dawes and Co.,
of London, whereby the A.S.N. was
bought out in 1886 for £294,000. The
combination was the A.U.S.N., managed
at first by the 8.1.5. N. (whence the 8.1.
funnel-markings), and acquired in 1915
by Macdonald, Hamilton and Co., of
Brisbane. Since the partners died, cen-
tral management has been transferred to
Sydney.
* * * *
“Passenger”: The s.s. Kingswood is
back in S.A. ports loading grain after
making marine history. In January,
1937, she was lying at Port Pirie (S.A.)
when a 15-ton donkey-engine exploded
and was blown right along the hulk
wrecking everything and passing out
through the bow plating. After she had
been patched up locally, a Dutch salvage
tug took her to England for recondi-
tioning. The tow, which started by tak-
ing 23 days from Pirie to Fremantle,
lasted in all 4£ months, and is held to
have been the longest on record. In the
Tyne she has been fitted up, and even
improved.
* * * *
“S.T.S. ’: A true good-fairy story has
come out in court in S.A. A printer in
a country town pleaded guilty to having
understated both his sales and his in-
come for Federal taxation purposes. He
was doing quite a small local business,
he said, when he somehow got the con-
tract to print tote tickets for S.A. Trot-
“Take it easy, Joe; you know what you're like after a few beers ."
ting Association. Shortly he was print-
ing over half a million weekly (820,000
in one splendid week); also, as he got
better known, the tickets for about a
dozen country race clubs. The official
estimate of his recent income at £3721
was not disputed. “Run off my legs.”
was the plea in . defence; “tax return
prepared largely on guesswork.” He was
fined £77, and advised to engage an
accountant
* * * #
“Country Fed”: The sudden craze for
the topee in Victoria this summer —men
and women, boys and girls are wearing
them everywhere—reminds me of a hat
advertisement I discovered in the “Vic-
torian Gazetteer,” published in 1865 by
F F. Bailliere, Publisher-in-Ordinary to
the Vic. Government. The ad. simply
referred to “washing hats with zinc
blocks, composed of linen quilted on
woollen fabrics, made by Ford Bros.,
J ’
421 King-street, Melbourne. The cream
was in a subjoined testimonial from a
Dr. Richardson, who wrote: “I have
worn your hats since their first introduc-
tion, and find the latest improvement of
the thick crown tends materially to keep
out the sun’s heat. I am frequently ex-
posed to it for hours while riding and
driving on the hottest days, and can con-
fidently call them the hats for this
climate.” Summer was summer in the
’sixties, not like the mixture of to-day—
105deg. one day, 65deg. the next. It is
doubtful whether anyone could invent
a hat that would suit all the vagaries
of the new-style summer-time.
**' * *
“Scotia”: A Melbourne hostess has a
way of her own of bringing new people
together and making them at ease with
one another. Before dinner each guest
is given a card on which will be seen
something of this sort: “To your left will
be seated Mrs. A. Blank, whose husband is
alive and an eye specialist in Singapore.
They are neither separated nor divorced.
Her special interests are old china and in-
terior decoration. Her travel experiences
are amusing. She is the mother of three
girls, all married.” And on the other
side: “The lady on your right is Miss
Thelma Arpeggio, only daughter of Dr.
A., the eminent scientist. She has re-
turned recently from a search for Scot-
tish antiques in Palestine. She suspects
all men of being fortune-hunters unless
they listen patiently to her two conver-
sational topics, Futurism and Insanity.”
Women guests are handed cards purvey-
ing factual matter about the mere males
who will be sandwiched between them at
the meal. The idea is new to Victoria,
and seems to be taking on, but Lord
knows what will happen if there’s ever
a mix-up of the tickets.
* * * *:
“Kerys”: The only drug-store in our
village is run by a kindly chemist, old
enough to have added some psychology
to his other qualifications. When a wild-
eyed young woman entered and an-
nounced her desire to buy sufficient
strychnine to poison a cat he sized up
the situation immediately. Handing her
a small packet he said briskly “Sign
here, please,” collected the cash and
watched her exit. Then he sent his assis-
tant to keep an eye on the lady and report
progress. “She’s in the park, sir,” said
the assistant returning. “She sat on a
seat and licked up that stuff you gave
her, and she’s still there.” Half an hour-
later she had disappeared, but she called
in next morning. “I’m grateful to you,”
she said. “I was terribly worried about
something, but I feel now I can face it.
What did I sign?” “Just a book I use in
such cases,” said the old gentleman
gently, tearing out the signed page and
returning it to her with her cash.
* # # #
“Scram”: One of the Mariposa tour-
ists holds the belief that a visiting-card
can be made to do a lot more work than
state a name and address. Here’s his
effort:
“Howdy, folks! E. T. Rodgers, of
Tiffin, Ohio. Newspaper publisher. Presi-
dent and general manager of the “Adver-
tiser-Tribune” Co. Bachelor. Travel for
pleasure. Dance and drink some. NO
BRIDGE. Call me ‘Tap.’ That’s all.”
A NEW NAME FOR IT.
“A malady known as ‘Effort Syndrome,’ mentioned
before the Workers’ Compensation Commission
(Sydney), was defined by medical witnesses as a
form of neurasthenia which caused a desire to
avoid heavy work.”
Life’s ills get incessant additions,
All listed in intricate terms
By watchful and learned physicians
As products of modern conditions
Or still unidentified germs.
And here’s a new label undoubted
For an ailment as ancient as Rome —
Who is there that’s never been outed
By “effort syndrome ’?
In realms where the pick and the hammer
Are emblems of manual craft
The words have a definite glamor
Unfound in the curt Katzenjarnmer
That means mere aversion from graft.
It’s something that’s most unhygienic
Afflicting your legs and your dome,
A pest of the type neurasthenic,
This “effort syndrome.”
It’s an evil more palpably eerie
Than the languor which creeps o’er the limbs
On jobs where the Willies are weary
And toil is a penance that’s dreary
For tired and somnolent Tims.
It may pick for a victim the slacker,
Or catch in its odious comb
The fellow who revels in yacker,
The “effort syndrome.”
We versemakers, too, have our tussles
For the guerdon from work that accrues,
The same as the army that hustles
For its tucker with Vulcan-like muscles
And its beer with inflexible thews.
So, this struggle for rhymes being a terror,
I’ll chuck it and head me for home,
A victim —too right and no error! —
Of “effort syndrome.”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


20/0/16
10 for 9 d
For real quality Tobacco...
and for your throat’s sake
-smoke
W 1874
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
CIGARETTE
THIS
GENERATION
>( ,
III!
7WBL,'
m
POLITICAL POINTS
Germany, Japan, Poland and Britain
were implicated in the “confessions” of
the latest collection of butchers of the
revolution arraigned by their fellow-
butchers at a Soviet “trial.” In the pres-
ence of the British Ambassador, ope
Ivanoff gave the substance of a conver-
sation with Bukharin in which that
worthy said that Britain had agreed to
help in overthrowing the Soviet for the
prize of concessions in North Russia. A
masterpiece of mendacity, even for a
Communist.
Every exhibition of Soviet “justice”
starts the civilised world marvelling at
the readiness of the accused.to confess
themselves traitors and tell the most fan-
tastic stories by way of proof. One
theory is that they do it in the hope of
saving their families and preserving their
estates from confiscation ; but in view of
the merciless character of the Stalin Ad-
ministration this is scarcely credible. A
more plausible theory is that they lie
for the mere pleasure of lying. Lying is
part of the Sovi t system, and has become
so ingrained in their nature that they go
on lying even when hope of life is lost.
Hughes must have thought he was
pleasing his colleagues when he sug-
gested that the Italian Government
should apologise and pay compensation
to the unnaturalised Italian said to have
been bashed aboard its cruiser at Port
Melbourne. Actually he annoyed some,
and after the affair had been discussed
it was given out that Cabinet would “do
nothing for the moment.” This means
that it will do nothing at any moment.
Although there are two Labor groups
and U.A.P. competition for what are
called “safe” seats, only 191 persons
weighed in with nominations for the
N.S.W. Assembly elections. Nineteen —
six U.A.P., three U.C.P., eight Lang
Labs, and two Industrial Labs, who were
Lang Labs, for ever so long—were re-
turned unopposed. One of the non-
starters is Mason, K.C., who beat the
“official” U.A.P. candidate in Woollahra
last June. His brief experience con-
vinced Mason that State politics are un-
real and unnecessary; and obviously
many other New South Wales people are
of the same opinion.
While the latest Soviet trials were rag-
ing, the Victorian part of the Society for
the Promotion of Cultural Relations with
Soviet Russia held its annual meeting in
Melbourne. It must have been rather
a gloomy affair, but a lady teacher, just
back from Russia, made an attempt to
brighten it by describing Russia as “a
land where there is purpose and direc-
tion.” No doubt of that; Stalin’s “pur-
pose” to exterminate his enemies who
were friends for so long has been abun-
dantly demonstrated, and the “direction”
of his firing squads is flawless. They
never miss the back of the neck.
According to Canberra’s reading of
the Constitution, a State Parliament
can’t nominate a successor to an elected
Senator who dies before he can take his
seat; so the Victorian people will have
to put a man in Jack Barnes’s place.
Labor would like a walkover, but Tom
Brennan swears it won’t get one.
Curtin has made nonsense of young
Holt’s statement in Melbourne that his
Government had “very serious reasons”
for not being ready to meet Parliament,
one of the “reasons” being that the Labor
leader had asked it not to introduce
contentious legislation till July. All last
week Curtin was demanding that the
Government should* call members to-
gether to discuss the foreign situation.
By way of rubbing it in, he pointed out
that since January 1, 1937, the Repre-
sentatives have had only 29 sittings.
Ogilvie, the Tasmanian Premier, was
in Melbourne last week appearing as
private advocate in an arbitration case.
While there he no doubt met Bussau, the
Victorian farmer A.-G., who has been
appointed to the London office but isn t
going till April—in March he will have
qualified for a life pass over all the in-
solvent Government railways. The moral
is that State Premiers and Attorneys-
and Agents-General are alike superfluous.
Perhaps fired by the example of the
Sydney Government, which has spent
£60,000 on royal commissions in two
years, the Government at Melbourne has
appointed a royal commission “to investi-
gate industrial assurance.” A select
committee could do all the investigating
that may be necessary, and it would cost
nothing ; but select committees have gone
“Washington Post For Mr. Anthony Eden.” —Kiteflying newspaper headline.
“Waal, I guess this’ll kinda make him feel at home.”
out of fashion. The tendency in all these
Parliaments is to do less and demand
more for doing it, the ideal being the
maximum of reward for the minimum of
exertion.
often as tbey have been bowled out,
tbe “Cronk-News” and the “Daily
yeller” are still drawn upon for a large
proport i on 0 f the foreign “news” served
to Australians. The “Daily Yeller”
tin the mou th of a Spanish Nationalist
general a spee ch to the effect that “the
Rock now shelters criminals and pirates. ’
wi|l soon releasc Gibraltar from
these blackguards and deliver it to its
legitimate owners. We must imitate the
Italians, for one Italian is worth two
Spaniards.
The last sentence alone should have made
readers incredulous, for the Spaniard,
whatever his political complexion, is too
proud to allow that he is 50 per cent, in-
ferior to any race. The yarn was brought
up in the Commons, and Chamberlain
said he would have inquiries made. The
next step was a call at the Foreign Office
from the Nationalists’ representative in
London, who gave the “Yeller” the lie.
After all the fuss, the industrialist
“party” has dug up only half a dozen
candidates in N.S.W. Though it claimed
to be supreme on the coalfields, it is run-
ning only one man on the coalfields —
against Baddeley. Curtin has wisely
refused to speak for the “party,” and
Ministerialists will be very foolish if they
give its melancholy half-dozen their sup-
port. Better the Lang mob than that lot.
When Fabianism became fashionable
in England, H. G. Wells complained
that socialists treated Lady Warwick
with a deference suggestive of village
yokels touching their hats to Squire.
Sydney “D.T.’s” attitude to the Russkis
is rather like that. Announcing that
Stalin had rounded up another lot of his
.old pals, it described them as Famous
Men, “some of them formerly most
famous men.” History will dismiss these
famous men, killers and killed alike, as a
set of ruffians.
Not long before the Empire lost its
wise and kind old George V., young
Labor gents in Oxford announced in a
series of resolutions that they would
refuse to fight for King and country.
Attlee, the interventionist Labor leader,
who has given his name to a battalion
of the Red Spanish Army, visited Oxford
the other day, and young Labor gents
carried him shoulder high, shouted
“Down with Chamberlain,” and marched
down High-street singing “The Red Flag.”
This suggests that the young Labor
gents’ pacifist sentiments have changed,
but perhaps it only means that they are
better singers than fighters.
Though Chamberlain has promised no
concessions, being committed to no more
than conversations, the Labor bosses in
England have had the gall to parade
their “uncompromising opposition to
any agreement with either Fascist Italy
or Nazi Germany on the basis indicated
b> the Prime Minister.” This was too
much for Labor Lords Arnold and
Ponsonby, and Lord Arnold has re-
signed. It is doubtful whether other
British Labor elements will support the
crazy stunt of Attlee and his pals, and
Australian Labor can’t without making
a meal of all Curtin’s pronouncements on
foreign policy.
S.A. Labor is not contesting nine of
the 39 Assembly seats. In the other 30
it is for the most part advising the faith-
ful to give their No. 2 or No. 3 votes to
Independents so that no preferences will
go to Government candidates. In The-
barton it has marked Blackwell, the
breakaway member, last of four; i:ii
Adelaide Bert Edwards is last of six.
Edwards used to be an Adelaide Labor
M.L.A., and was willing to be one again,
but the party had other ideas.
It would seem from “S. M. Herald”
that Britain has been getting its impres-
sions of Australia’s attitude to the Eden
business from “S. M. Herald.” The
“Age” expresses Australian sentiment
with greater authority, and the “Age”
applauds “the Chamberlain policy of
looking to the future.” Edenism “has
failed to achieve anything approaching
harmony and security,” and “the great
majority of Australians regard the change
with favor and hope.” And the “Argus,”
for once, agrees with the “Age.”
The “Daily Sketch” writer who fer-
reted out the secret of Mussolini’s plot
to wipe out the British Navy and sent
the late Campbell-Black from England
to Egypt to remove the evidence, con-
tained in a Black Box, has produced an-
other revelation —that Mustapha Kemal
offered to place 800,000 men at Britain’s
disposal. Perhaps H.M.A.S. Sydney, on
reaching the Mediterranean from Aus-
tralia, the route the “Daily Sketch-er”
chose for it, would have convoyed the
800,000. In point of fact, Mustapha is
so bent on renouncing war that he has
fixed up a 10 years’ treaty of friendship
with his old enemies the Greeks.
It is held by Forgan Smith and his
friends that a resolution passed without
debate at the Mackay Labor Convention
has spiked the Protestant Labor group’s
gun. Introduced by the Premier himself,
and seconded by Duggan, M.L.A., it “re-
affirms” that “primary education in the
State schools shall be free and secular.”
For good measure, it was added, at the
instance of Ministers Hanlon and Cooper,
that “the first plank of the education
platform shall be State education, secular
and free, from kindergarten to the uni-
versity,” but for lack of finance the uni-
versity part is thus far merely a pious
aspiration.
A language master at St. Peter’s Col-
lege, Adelaide, is in trouble with the S.A.
Jews. Invited by the “Advertiser” to
contribute an article on the Austrian
situation, he wrote, all unsuspectingly,
that “the richest Austrians are invariably
the Jews,” and that they are to be seen
in all the fashionable places—“some-
times gaudily dressed and very noisy....
extremely friendly, fat and interesting.”
There are only 10 per cent, of Jews in
Vienna, but they own well over 70 per
cent, of the capital. Half are refugees
from Galicia who made a fortune during
the war when our men were at the front.
The gentleman is only a couple of
months out from Vienna. He will learn
in time that Australians take Jews as
they find them and that their sentiments
are altogether friendly.
A week after his resignation Eden was
“more than ever convinced that I was
right.” So was his deputy Cranborne:
“I was never more certain that I am
right.” The truth is that these young
gentlemen consider themselves as infal-
lible as the sectaries rebuked by Crom-
well (“I beg you to admit the possibility
that you may be wrong”), and it explains
in part why they fell.


' t
SPEAKIN FROM DOOR. YOU A.N Al_F
NICK ROUND, An'DONT* FORQET THE BEER
REST CURE.
“‘Go out to the movies with some other woman/ Dorothy Dix (Sydney ‘Sun’) advised a woman who complained that her husband’s one fault was going to
sleep after dinner."


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
BEEBE
ALL STEEL
Portable
Winches
With
Holding
Yokes.
For use where Power is not Practical or
Available. Especially suitable for Log Haul-
ing, Timber Getting and Mill Work.
2-ton capacity, weight .. 661 b.
5-ton capacity, weight .. 1101 b.
Illustrated folder with full particulars
obtainable from: —
Nelson & Robertson Pty. Ltd.
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
Top of the world.. Banff,
Lake Louise, Emerald Lake,
You’ll see 600 miles of the
best of Canada’s Rockies
if you go to Europe via
247 George Street, Sydney
54 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly. Co., Inc. in Canada
WAR!
Declare war on insect pests
—use INSECTIBANE
powder ... It cannot fail.
Insectibane positively kills
flies and other insect pests
but is harmless to humans
and animab: it lasts longer,
too! Sold everywhere in
Australia by chemists and
stores: buy insectibane and
banish insects!
INSECTIBANE
PERSONAL ITEM S
Gerald Marr Thompson, who died at
his home in Sydney aged 81, was
musical, dramatic and art critic of the
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” from 1883 to
1891 and the Sydney “Morning Herald”
from 1891 to 1925, and for a longer
period than that, save during his visits to
London, no Sydney “first night” was
complete without him. A Londoner
born, he was educated at London Uni-
versity College, and, like most followers
of the Inky Way, drifted into journalism
after trying less congenial paths. He
arrived in Australia in 1881, following
two medico brothers, and after a short
term of bank-clerking in Adelaide moved
to Sydney. He was a kindly critic, with-
out losing a sense of proportion and
perspective.
One of the reasons the Lang-bossed
Labor crowd in N. S. Wales cuts so little
ice in politics is that it has quarrelled
with so many of its ablest members.
One of these is newspaperman Tom
Mutch, who was in Parliament for 13
years as Botany’s rep., and was Minister
TOM MUTCH.
of Education for seven of them, in the
Storey, Dooley and Lang Ministries.
Mutch stood Lang for 11 months and
then parted brass-rags, finishing his Par-
liamentary term as an Independent. This
year he’s hopping into the arena again as
U.A.P. candidate for Bathurst, now held
by Lang-Labor nominee C. A. Kelly.
Mutch’s" most recent newspaper experi-
ence has been with The Bulletin.
F. A. Macarthur-Onslow, carried off
by a heart attack at 58 last week,
was a great-grandson of the father
of Australian woolgrowers, Captain
John Macarthur. F.A. was a son
of Captain A. W. Onslow, R.N.,
was born at Camden Park (N.S.W.)
and educated at Oxford. He saw service
in the S. African War, and diversified
his activities as a grazier and company
director with ownership of a stud farm
and the running of a racing string. Poly-
crates, a Newmarket winner, and Flying
King were among his imported horses.
Among the Mariposa tourists who
arrived in Melbourne last week are two
lofty pillars of the Mormon Church,
Elder Rufus K. Hardy, president of the
Council of Seventy, and Elder George A.
Smith, one of the quorum of the Twelve
Apostles. They are making an advisory
inspection of Mormon missions in the
Pacific, and claim that some of the
best men of their church were Aus-
tralians— Joseph Ridges, builder of the
Great Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, was
one. The social preoccupation of their
church these days is relief of unemploy-
ment.
Leonard Maddern, fifth and present
manager of the Ballarat Banking Co.,
Australia’s only provincial bank, must
be the solitary Commonwealth example
of a bank manager who was a home-town
auctioneer and estate agent for 30 years
before he entered the manager’s office
of the local bank three years ago.
He was a director for seven years
before that, and his managerial appoint-
ment is explained by the fact that the
bank does a lot of mortgage business.
It was to Mafidsm’s father and uncle,
by the way, that H. V. McKay, of har-
vester fame, once offered a half-interest
in his concern for a badly-needed £6OO ;
bank-manager Maddern tells the tale with
a wry grin.
Dr. R. S. Rogers, veteran scientist,
O.C. at Keswick Hospital during the war
and a recognised Australian authority on
orchids*, has handed over the presidency
of S.A. Medical Board to A. M. Cud-
more, one of the leaders of the profes-
sion in Adelaide, and with a fine war
record.
Bora in Ballarat 58 years ago of a
Welsh father, M. B. W. John is now a
leading citizen of the old Victorian town.
John, senior, soon found there was more
gold in his trade than in the streets, and
became a foundry engineer for the
Phoenix loco.-making establishment; his
son, M.8.W., went through the same
shop, and in 1896 helped his late father
start the valve works of which he is now
managing director. Three sons, M. 8.,
J.T. and W.O ~ are departmental heads
and directors of the firm, while a fourth,
David L., is also in the business. A
nephew, L. A. Perkins, is firm secretary.
The boss is also a director of such old
Ballarat concerns as the Gas Co., Trus-
tees and Executors Agency Co. and the
Ballarat Banking Co.; he’s president of
the local orphanage and the Ballarat Ex-
hibition Commission, and is Govern-
ment rep. on the council of the School
of Mines, which he himself attended.
A Sydney artist who has a right to
rejoice over this year’s Archibald Prize
award is J. S. Watkins, teacher of Nor-
mand Baker. Watkins was also the mem-
tor of Henry Hanke, so he has taught
two N.S.W. winners of the Archibald,,
which has mostly gone to Victorians.
W. W. Warren, dead in Adelaide at
77, claimed to have been one of the
founders of Melbourne Co-operative
Brewing Co. and also of the Walkerville
B.C. in his own State. A noted horse-
breeder, too, at the Blair Athol stud in
pre-war days.
They bred them tough in the good old
days. Tom Luckey, the 83-year-old clerk
of Sydney racecourses, recently returned
to duty after beating off a severe attack
of pneumonia. Among horses all his
life, Tom has been knocked about a bit,
his worst injury being a badly-smashed
leg received when a hurdler called Jupiter
fell with him at the old Homebush
course. The limb was in such a crushed
condition that the hospital medico was
preparing to remove it when another
doctor made a timely entrance and called
off the amp. Half a century back Tom
was a clever show rider, one of his feats
being the piloting of his horse Cremorne
over the high jump, minus saddle and
bridle. His active association with Rand-
wick dates back to 1873, when he rode
a mare named Alice in a pony race.
The directorship of Cambridge’s
Cavendish Physical Research Laboratory,
held for many years by Maoriland s
Lord Rutherford, has gone to the 48-
year-old William Lawrence Bragg, born
and educated in Adelaide. Bragg’s
father has been Fullerian Professor of
Chemistry at the Royal Institution and
Director of the Faraday-Davy Research
Lab. since 1923. Before that the elder
Bragg had been a professor at Adelaide
University from 1886 to 1908, and a
Quain Professor at London University
for eight years. He was president of
the Royal Society in 1936, and is one
of the few scientists to hold the Order
of Merit. Shortly after his son left
Adelaide University to go to Cambridge
the pair began a highly original research
on crystal structure in its application to
X-ray principles. This earned them the
Nobel prize for physics in 1915, the
younger Bragg being then only 25. The
latter was Langworthy Professor of
Physics at Manchester University for
several years;, and is an F.R.S. He has
been Director of the National Physical
Laboratory for about a year.
Paul Hoge, who becomes president of
the Brisbane Stock Exchange for the
third time, should know something about
his job, since he was brought up in the
shadow of ’Change. His father was sec-
retary, with one short interval, from 1892
to 1928. Paul himself secured his seat
shortly after the war, in which he served
in the 3rd Machine Gun Company.
HOOKE, THE OPTIMIST.
He hopes to unseat Lang in Auburn.
In A. D. Mackenzie, 43 years old and
a Digger, the Victorian Country Roads
Board gets a shrewd and energetic mem-
ber to replace F. W. Fricke, who has
been promoted to the chairmanship.
Mackenzie is engineer for ports and har-
bors, and has been chairman of many
State boards, including the Victprian
Tourist Committee. He has been in the
public service since 1912.
Ballarat is particularly faithful to its
own sons, and T. T. Hollway, one of
it's younger legal men and a grandson
of the Hollway who started what is still a
TOM HOLLWAY, of Ballarat.
thriving plumbing and tinsmith business
there in the early ’fifties, has been its
rep. in the Vic. Assembly since 1932.
Now 32, he has been the youngest
State politician at the top o’ Bourke-street
since he reached the House, and he’s
named in some quarters as a likely
successor to Opposition-leader Argyle
when the U.A.P. people really take the
bit in their venerable teeth.
It isn’t often that an ecclesiastical dig-
nitary takes a stop down, voluntarily or
otherwise, but that has been the choice
of Dr. Donald Baker, Bishop of Ben-
digo, who has resigned his see after
18 years to become principal of
Ridley College, Melbourne. The
stipend is smaller, but Dr. Baker
feels that he can give better service
in his new post. Though born in
England, he was the son of Arch-
deacon Baker, of Nelson (M.L.), and
spent his boyhood in Fernland. He
graduated at Cambridge, and his first
parish was Balmain (Sydney), where he
was curate in 1906. His appointment as
Archdeacon of Geelong follows his resig-
nation of the Bendigo bishopric.
Some comments in C. E. W. Bean’s
early press dispatches from Egypt didn’t
exactly make the First Div. Diggers want
to fall on his neck and kiss him. He
was new to the hearty ways of the general
run of men then, and high spirits break-
ing over a bit startled him; but the more
they saw of him the better the Digs,
liked him and the better he liked them.
He was a familiar spectacle on Gallip.,
well in the thick of it, and the bulk of
the splendid descriptive writing in his
contributions to the sterling A.I.F. history
which he’ll finish editing this year is
based on first-hand observation. Austra-
lian-born, son of the Rev. Edwin Bean,
sometime headmaster of All Saints’ Col-
lege, Bathurst, he was educated there and
at Oxford, where he graduated. His Litt.D.
comes as a gift of grace from Melb. Uni.
Originally a lawyer (he was associate
to Justice Owen in Sydney for three
years), he joined the “S. M. Herald” staff
in 1908, and was a leader-writer when
the Great War broke out. He was
official war correspondent throughout the
hostilities, and has since been mainly
occupied as a historian, six of the 12
volumes of the History coming from his
pen. Married, 58, and still plays cricket.


BIGGEST TYRE NEWS OF 1938
PI VI will VIV 111
NEW GOODYEAR
Goodyear Dealers
throughout Australia
are eager to show the
new R-l, Goodyear’s
smash-hit right in the
centre of the bull’s-eye
of tyre value.
The R-l, built for the
motorist who wants a
quality tyre at the
lowest cost, outvalues
any other tyre selling at
the same price.
As a contribution to
economical motoring,
the new R-l is on its
own—and your Good-
year Dealer is READY
NOW to show and tell
you about this great
new Goodyear Tyre.
SEE IT TO-DAY!
XT'*
I
i
St
THE NEW “R-l”
GIVES YOU THESE
NINE GREAT FEATURES
1. Handsome, streamlined side-
walls.
2. High, non-skid, diamond blocks.
3. Thick Centre-Traction tread.
4. High, broad shoulders.
5. Supertwist Cord in every ply.
6. Full size in all dimensions.
7. Flat, wide, long-wearing tread.
8. Long, irouble-iree. non-skid ser-
vice. ,
9. Famous Goodyear quality.
Available in all popular sizes
for motor cars, including 5
NEW SIZES, at these record
low prices.
3 GREAT GOODYEAR TYRES
A price for every purse and purpose
G-3
Heavy
Duty
G-3
Standard
Heavy Duty
and Standard
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: “Tom the Liar” bor-
rowed a boat from Kulkyne to pull down
to Tapalin (Murray River). It was new,
copper-riveted, and Kulkyne’s manager
was proud of it. “That’s a real boat;
take care of it,” he adjured the hirer.
Next day came a ring from Tapalin.
“That was a real boat, all right,” came
T. the L.’s voice. “Of course she is!”
replied the manager. “I said was!” said
the ’phone. “Y’ see, some silly cow left
it tied up at the landin’, an’ the Marion
[river steamer] pulled in an’ they didn’t
see the boat an’ —well, y’ might be able
to do somethin’ with the seat; the rest
of her ain’t much good”- The
manager yoked his chestnuts and drove
furiously westward, cutting the arc of
the great bend below Tapalin. At sun-
down he came out on a high bluff just
as a man in a bright new boat pulled
in to camp for the night. The manager
sneaked close to the camp and said, “Did
you say !is’ or ‘was’ a good boat, Tom?”
But Tom was swimming rapidly across
the river.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Touching that “when-is-a-
-heifer-a-cow?” dissension (B. 23/2/’3B),
many who should know can’t tell just
when a lamb becomes a hogget. My
statement is that the hogget stage is
between the first and second shearing.
* * * *
“Sandpatch”: “Garlic’s” yarn (B.
16/2/’3B) of the old German farmer who
rushed off to put on his trousers so that
he could talk to a lady on the ’phone
reminds me of one important S. Aus.
civil servant who, on a blazing hot day
in Central Aus., asked for his coat before
calling up his superior in Adelaide per
medium *of the O.T. Line. Asked why
the blazes he wanted the garment, he
replied that he never presumed to speak
to his superiors in his shirtsleeves.
* % * *
“Cudgerie”: The pre-wedding cere-
mony conducted by “Tripod’s” abos. (B.
23/ 2/ ’3B) reminds me of an old buck on
the Starcke River (N.Q.), suspected of
marital infidelity, who faced a tribunal
of armed warriors. Each nig.—and there
were about 10 of them —had a handful
of spears, whilst the old buck had only
his wommera. He successfully deflected all
spears except the second-last. This passed
completely through his chest, penetrating
the left lung and protruding several
inches beyond his back. The spear-
throwing ceased. One of the tribunal
broke the barb off the spear, rolled the
shaft in his hands to loosen it in the
flesh and removed it. The two gaping
punctured wounds were then filled with
clay, and the nig. removed to the shelter
of his yamba. I saw him about a fort-
night later. He was still spitting small
quantities of blood, but was well on the
way to recovery. He complained of his
“plurry bad cough” and asked me for
tobacco.
*****
“Gryllus”: Every night for weeks past
a spider has been fishing for moths on
one of our orange-trees. She builds no
web, only a sort of cable bridge from
which she works her self-made angling
gear. It is a silken thread, an inch and
a half long, with a glistening globule at
the end, smaller ones above it. Holding
it out with one foreleg, she waits until a
small moth sails by, then waves and
shakes it to attract the quarry. Flutter-
ing up to investigate the strange object, it
touches the shining drop and is instantly
stuck fast. The fisher hauls in the line,
sinks her fangs into the catch, wraps it
up in a ribbon of silk, and sucks it dry.
After a short digestive rfest, she spins
another lure and line, and resumes her
fishing. Well named the Imperial, or
Magnificent, Spider, she is a handsome
person, quite regal in her disregard for
inquisitive watchers with electric torches.
* * * *
“Naturalist”: Among bush creatures
that have suffered from the claws and
teeth of domestic cats gone wild is the
handsome but curious-looking brush-
tailed rat. Once numerous on the Banana-
land coast, the diminutive fowlhouse-
raider is now seldom seen. He usually
selects a moonlit night for a raid, which,
however, causes more commotion than
actual damage among the chooks, though
repeated raids may decimate the chicken
population. A brush-tail will sometimes
take cover under a molested fowl’s wing.
5jC * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Cheetahs, with
an alleged timed speed of 40 m.p.h. over
a furlong or so, have been getting a lot
of blurb in English papers as the world’s
fastest-running animals. They certainly
look it in action, but when one compares
times put up by racehorses carrying
“No good for Australian conditions. Not enough ground clearance."
from nine stone up and doing four fur-
longs in 45 seconds—which is also 40
m.p.h.—the good old gee-gee has it all
over the big cat. The cheetah gets up to
top speed in a couple of flying bounds;
the racehorse, weighing at least 10 times
as much and carrying another 10 p.c. on
its back, requires at least several seconds.
At some part of the journey it must do
well over the 40-m.p.h. mark in order to
attain that average for half a mile. For
fair comparison the cheetah should carry
a corresponding load, say from 10 to 15
pounds. Even without it it is sunk as a
champion speed merchant.
* * * *
“Bill Bowyang”: The blacks carve
their wells from solid granite by fire.
Living in N.Q. for the past 50 years, I
have often watched them at work. A
depression in the granite was selected,
and if there was a small crack in it so
much the better. On this a huge fire
would be started ; and when the ashes
were red-hot water would be poured on
them, causing the sides of the depression
to expand and flake away. The fires were
kept going until the hole was the required
depth. There are others who can do it
besides Binghi. Bill Ryan, who “beach-
combs” near The Gap (Bowen, N.Q.),
blew in from outback when his age en-
titled him to collect the old-age pension
and erected a hut near the beach. With-
out tanks he had no way of storing drink-
ing-water, so he selected a likely spot on
a large granite outcrop near his hut and
started fires on top of it. When rain
came, six months later, he had a 6ft. hole
in the granite.
* * * *
“Huglow”: There is no coincidence in
“Awani’s” pigs being born without feet
(B. 2/2/’3B). “A’s” sow may have con-
tracted hydatids from rabbits fed to it.
A sow with hydatids invariably farrows
footless piglets. Too much molasses given
in the brood sow’s daily ration may also
cause this fault.
* * * *
“Stoo”: Maori generosity (B.
23/2/’38)? I was staying with an old
couple in a whare north of Auckland
one time, and they told me about a white
man whom they had fed for six weeks
until one night he stole away with the
blankets they had lent him and all the
food and crockery he could lay his hands
on. The old wahine’s comment was:
“He must have needed them to take
them. Any time he come back to stay,
that orright. He can have them if he
want them.” I, too, had to depart by
moonlight, not because I’d any loot to
conceal, but because the Maoris, after
sharing their food, tobacco and pitifully
few pence with me, touched the peak of
generosity with the offer of a dusky and
husky daughter—and a hint at matri-
mony.
#**>■-
“Mag”: Our gander takes his parental
duties seriously. While Ma was sitting
on her eggs he waddled up and ordered
her off. She went meekly. Then the
old bird nosed the eggs and, sorting two
out, with flat-footed back-kicks hurled
them against the fence. The aroma ex-
plained why. In due course, the remain-
ing eggs hatched, and later came the
rains, converting the near-by dry water-
course into a strong stream. In this Ma
took her willing brood. Then he came,
with battle in his eye, sailed out and
violently shepherded the flock to shore
and safety. The licking he gave the
imprudent Ma would have brought a
man three months’ anywhere.
Hi sjc # *
“Kerriki”: The ordinary tent is the
most poorly-ventilated contraption I
know of, turning into a standard oven
under summer conditions. It was origi-
nally invented for service in cold
climates, and the fundamental notion was
to keep heat in and cold out at all costs.
For adaptation to Australian conditions
I make additions to the bought artk'e.
Along the roof, on both sides, two semi-
circular holes, about 6in. across, are cut
and cased. A piece of canvas is made
into a half-cone to cover each of these
apertures, with a semicircle of rope
hemmed into the bottom and fastened to
the tent at each end to hold it out from
the fabric. The rest is just sewn over the
aperture. These ventilators look after
themselves, falling open automatically
when the tent is erected, and closing
down of their own accord when it is
folded. They are rainproof, and give an
adequate air circulation at all times.
* * v *
“Flight”: Someone asked recently why
wagtails don’t attack mopokes lining a
bough of a tree. Two reasons, and the
first is immobility. If the owls moved
the willies would dive into them lively
enough. In fact, all birds mob them if
they move in the daytime. The next is
eyes. Take any animal, males for choice,
and see them when they meet eye to eye
with another of their kind —rams, dogs,
stallions, roosters, bulls, cats, human and
others. There’s a fight listed straightway.
So it is with the little dick-birds. If the
owl moved his eyes to follow the flight
of a willie, or if that move was notice-
able to the little chap, he’d go for him.
Take note of the next bird being chivvied
and see how he works his eyes at his
attackers, then remember that the mopoke
doesn’t show enough eye to swear at in
the daytime.
“Huglow”: The mopoke owes less to
camouflage than to gameness as a fighter
to gain him immunity from other fowls.
I have seen one settle on a water-trough
in among magpies and peewits, and,
although the latter made a terrible fuss,
not one was game enough to start any-
thing. The same magpies, peewits and
even jackasses have had a hand in kill-
ing other specimens of night-owls round
the same trough.
* * * *
“Ida D.”: Tell “Billy See” (B. 9/2/’3B)
that an edible fungus peels cleanly from
the outer edge to the middle. If it
doesn’t 100 to 1 it’s a poison. Living
for years in cow country, where mush-
rooms and “toadstools” were plentiful
twice a year, we faithfully followed this
rule, and I never heard of anyone mak-
ing a mistake.
* * * *
“Huglow”: I’ll back the N.Q. iron-
wood against “Bluey’s” yellow-box (B.
9/ 2/ ’3B) as the hardest timber to kill.
This tree will stand any amount of
suckerings, while even the chips which
get buried during clearing will shoot and
grow vigorously. The only way to get
a clean kill is to remove all chips,
branches, etc., and use poison on the
remainder. Incidentally, the ironwood
makes the best railway sleeper for white-
ant country. It is so hard that axemen
can’t use a thin-edged axe on it. Apart
from the sapwood, it is immune to rot
and white-ants for 20 years and more.
* * * *
“Zoofeend”: Spiders that develop an
alien taste for breadcrumb and beer may
be able to get away with it, likewise the
jumbuck who occasionally dines on de-
ceased rabbit and the skeletons of its own
kind left over from the last drought, but
Whiskers, the tricky four-year-old seal
in the Perth Zoo, wasn’t so lucky. Hav-
ing developed a taste for stone fruit
Whiskers omitted to spit out the stones.
A recent post-mortem revealed 36 mixed
apricot, peach and plum stones, fib. of
palm nuts, a sizable piece of glass and
a handful of small stones. Obviously
Whiskers died of indigestion, a victim to
experimentation in dietetics.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: For sheer ear-filling din I’ll
back a colony of nesting gulls against all-
comers. Thousands of individual cries
unite to form a continuous penetrating
scream which drowns all other sounds.
But when the ear becomes accustomed
to the noise there is experienced an eerie
effect of complete silence which even the
firing of a gun will fail to shatter.
THE FILLY.
Beyond the yard the moonlight strikes
White on the saffron thistle spikes;
Beyond the yard across the sky
Complaining plovers wheel and cry.
The captive filly, still as stone,
Forgets that she is pent alone,
Forgets the heavy sullen gleam
Of sliprails and the plover’s scream.
One star lower, frailer
Than its shining peers
Flickers farther, paler,
And the filly hears,
As when a foal she lay at ease,
The wilgas singing in a breeze.
Or with her fetlocks in the cool
Clear stillness of a brackish pool
Caught in a narrow rocky crack,
She sees her image looking back,
And marvels that the mane windblown
And shaggy head can be her own.
And then beneath the sweltering face
Of noon, the savage throbbing chase
With thud and clang of iron hoofs,
And in the dusk —the station roofs.
She trembles in the ash-pale night
Remembering with sudden fright
The headstall rough upon her cheeks.
The thistles gleam, a plover shrieks.
The captive filly whinnies shrill,
Then wild-eyed listens, statue-still;
But only Echo from the deep
Dry creekbed answers, half-asleep.
N.S.W.
T. Rose.


Snips”: One hundred pounds (moneyl
awaits the wizard who can stick for 30
consecutive seconds in a hunting saddle
aboard Rocky Ned. This assortment of
horse and bad-temper has been pelting
£lOO aspirants at the ground for 29 years.
He was foaled in 1907, and in a Monaro
(N.S.W.) town one recent evening he in-
serted a plug of dynamite under nine
locals in about as many minutes. He is
buckjumping’s oldest inhabitant.
* * * *
Kwakprak : Helped by his stalwart
son, Mick Kelly limped into the surgery
and sat down heavily. “If I can only find
the young devil that threw that stone,”
he announced, gingerly rubbing his left
calf, “I’ll skin him alive.” “Did you find
the stone?’ I asked, remembering our
new bitumen street surface. “That’s the
funny part,” said Mick ; “Jim and I both
had a good look, and there wasn’t a sker-
rick of anything to show what hit me,
but, by cripes, I felt it all right. Got me
just as I stepped on the kerb, helluva
crack, fair on the back of the calf.” It
took some explaining to satisfy Mick
that no stone and no boy had had any
part in the affair, but only a long thin
muscle and tendon lying between the
two big .calf-muscles, plantaris by name.
As he stepped on the kerb it had snapped,
producing the sensation of a heavy blow.
French surgeons call it “Coup de fouet.”
Tennis-players often suffer that way.
Strapping, a raised boot-toe and rest
will have Mick right in a month.
“ There's on’y the bridal suite left , Dad.”
"Then we’d better go to another joint I promised Mum I’d ’ave nothin’ '
to do with the sheilahs.”
“Levels”: The par. about animal-track
finders (B. 23/2/’3B) reminds me that
Boyes, a noted East African elephant-
hunter, said that when the first Uganda
rails were laid down the surveyors soon
tumbled to the fact that in the hilly coun-
try which made up much of the terrain
“Aw, go away — you're cricket mad!”
the elephant tracks invariably followed
the easiest gradients. Elephants are still
very numerous in Uganda. Recently
they increased so much as to become a
menace to native crops, and special
hunters were engaged to shoot them.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: A ferret’s curiosity is
stronger than its scent, and with charm-
ing trustfulness the slim bunny-chaser
will sometimes calmly slide up to a dog
and deliver a sharp-toothed nip, just to
see what will happen. It never finds out;
the happening is so sudden. Dogs are
very hard to charm.
“Old-timer”: Earned my share on
bluestone at Mildura, limestone at Hope-
toun (Vic.), and on granite at Junee
(N.S.W.), and never wore bowyangs (B.
23/2/’3B). We napped with the pebbles
between our feet as we sat on the heap.
My mentor, a veteran, put it this way:
“Don’t hit ’em too hard. Give one sharp
tap in one place, an’ if they don’t crack
turn ’em over. It’s somethin’ like splittin’
mallee stumps—y’ have t’ find the grain.
I alius wear a mask over me face made
out of gauze nettin’; it protects yer
peepers.” Got plenty of pricks and stings
on arms and bare chest, but never felt
anything on the shins, probably owing to
their position in relation to the stones
being napped.
* #
“F.Y.7”: An optimist named Lefroy
is advocating the employment of inden-
tured colored labor in the Westralian pas-
toral industry. In the long ago it was
tried in Queensland. When the Darling
Downs was first opened up Chinese were
employed as shepherds, and later
Kanakas were put on the same job in
other parts of Q. Neither importation
seems to have been tried at any other
station job apart from shepherding, and
when the fences went up the colored folk
went out as far as sheep work was con-
cerned. In the ’seventies and a little later
some of these Kanakas were kept on as
station house-servants, and good ones
they were. They were devoted to chil-
dren, and, though writer and his brother
and sister had a white nurse in charge
of them about the homestead, their walks
abroad were always taken under the
escort of a big ex-cannibal from Tanna
who, save for his complexion, was a
white man in all respects.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Unlike most women the
missus takes a real interest in the time-
keeping qualities of her wrist-watch, and
treats the gadget with affectionate con-
sideration. When it became erratic,
and finally stopped, she was genuinely
annoyed. The watchmaker’s report has
just come in, with the watch in its
normal condition of accuracy. He found
a very small white spider, still alive,
which had got itself mixed up with the
hairspring. As the case is watertight, and
had not been opened for at least a year,
how did the spider get in?
* * * *
“Naturala”: Line-fishing out from
Esperance (south coast of W.A.), I felt
that peculiar fumbling at the bait that
often betokens the nibbling of a crab.
But there was more than 100 ft. of water
under us. I jagged, and had it. It felt
like pulling up the bed of the ocean. It
was a crab—what a crab! The claw
that waved menacingly looked as big and
as strong as a man’s arm. The body was
as big as a bucket. How to get such a
monster up and over the gun’l looked a
problem. But the skipper simply reached
over, took hold of the great claw and
hoisted the crustacean inboard. “He
might have taken your hand off,” I said.
The skipper placed his finger in the open
claw. Feeling the touch the crab closed.
But beyond a slight pinch it could do
no injury. In a crab or any fish brought
up from such a depth the release of pres-
sure produces paralysis, much as excessive
pressure brings on paralysis in a human.
At its natural depth the crab could nearly
take a man’s hand off in one pinch. This
outsize in crustaceans measured 16in.
across the carapace: its large claw, 17in.
in length ; weight, 301 b. Packed full of
firm white meat, it was better eating than
any lobster or cray. I don’t know
whether this crab actually abounds in
the waters of the Bight, but it has been
found right from Bass Strait to the cray-
fish grounds west of Rottnest Island.
* * . * *
“Splodger”: Speaking as one who’s
been there I reckon the most agonising
part of a perish is the swollen tongue —
which starts as soon as a man begins to
dry out properly. It fills the whole of
his mouth, protrudes between his teeth,
gags him effectively and is undiluted
hell. But at the first touch of water,
even if it’s only a wet finger, it subsides
like a pricked bubble. As soon as it’s
gone a man can drink ; previously he
didn’t have a dog’s chance of doing any-
thing. But the agony of thirst doesn’t
leave as quickly ; after a thorough dry-
out it might be three days before satiety
is reached, no matter how much water
is imbibed. Perhaps this is due to the
necessity for the whole system to be re-
plenished.
* * * *
“Jindivick”: Those eels in the Clar-
ence River (N.S.W.) never spawned there
—they perform that duty on reefs far
away at sea. All European and American
eels come from the Challenger Ridge in
the Atlantic, and it was supposed, for
lack of knowledge concerning any other
ground, that all eels originated there.
They leave their spawning ground as
elvers, 4in. in length, and travel to all
parts of the world. For seven years they
wander about, around coasts, up rivers
and creeks, across country to ponds, and
finally the survivors make their way back
home to spawn and die. I have seen
eels crossing dewy meadows from rivers
to ponds. Let doubters explain why it is
that the Murray, ’Bidgee, Lachlan and
rivers within the big mountain ranges
have no eels.
* * * *
“Wang”: When the family returned
from the local show there was consider-
able discussion at the tea-table relative
to the weight of the fat bullock ; it had
been announced that a prize would be
offered for the nearest guess. Unfortu-
nately, a little while after it arrived at
the ground, the animal had collapsed and
died in its pen. Dave felt annoyed ; he
reckoned he could have clicked for the
prize. “How much d’you think it
weighed?” asked Dad. Dave told him.
The new hand opined it was heavier.
“What th’ devil would a towny like
you know of th’ weight of that bullick?”
roared Dave. “A darn sight more than
you,” replied Herbert warmly. “I hap-
pened t’ be in th’ pen examinin’ it when
it dropped dead on top o’ me!”
“Scylla”: I’ll put up the frog as mak-
ing the fastest movement of anything liv-
ing. Watch one stalk a fly. Creeping up
within six inches of it, the amphibian
will make a vicious jab with its hinged
tongue, swat the insect and bring it back
into its mouth. The movement is too
quick for the eye, and a fast camera will
just show the tongue as a faint blur.
BALLADE OF A NOT-SO-BAD
BLOKE.
You 11 hear it lightly tossed around,
This phrase that amply signifies
The one discussed is not renowned
For virtues which the world may prize.
It seeks his sins to minimise
With admirably-used restraint;
It’s summed up mostly in this wise:
“ ’E wasn’t what you’d call a saint!”
In shed or camp where men are found
Who’re tolerant, and realise
That human weaknesses abound
In all of us, they’ll not despise
Excessively nor criticise
Too harshly any moral taint;
But thus one’s faults will summarise:
“ E wasn’t what you’d call a saint!”
Although society may have frowned
On deeds which it must needs chastise,
The human wreck that’s run aground,
The rake who likes to villainise,
Will get few words that stigmatise
Beyond a castigation faint.
A lot or little this implies:
E wasn’t what you’d call a saint!”
L’Envoi.
There are worse labels, I’ll be bound,
I'll kick nor make complaint
It they should scrawl above my mound:
E wasn t what you’d call a saint! ”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ADAMS’ (TATT£RSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner lrom 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M4GOI.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1980-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cvanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.— Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling nrices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company's
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port liembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery, Port Kembla.
The BENGALI Hand Forged Blue Steel RAZOR
fd
A Creation of
Scientific Heat
Treatment . . .
Unique and attractive in appearance, perfect in
construction, it gives better and longer service
than any Razor you have ever used.
Sold with a definite Guarantee of Satisfaction.
Sizes, lin. gin., iJin., Black Handle 12/6
Xylo. Handle 15/-
Obtainable from all Wholesale and Retail Houses.
Are you travelling this year?
If 3'ou are going abroad and require expert management of your affairs during your absence,
you cannot do better than appoint Perpetual Trustee Comipany (Limited) to act as Attorney
or Agent. The Company offers the services of a staff highly qualified to manage all details
of your affairs. It can "arrange to make regular payments to you in any part of the world.
You are invited to make an appointment with a senior offlaer of the Company to discuss its
methods and charge. You might prefer to write for an explanatory booklet?
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Agent, Etc.
DIRECTORS
T H Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.,
E. R. Knox, K. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope.
H V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds under administration exceed £52,961,000.
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.
, Dividends N
6 p.c. Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Ordinary. serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 786,876 89,084 12 p.c. - 696,354 45,182
Co. reconstructed; shares in sub-
-12 m’ths sidiaries written up £2,324,131,
to and that amount capitalised.
Oct., 64 p.c.
1928.. 916,506 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 7,659
1929.. 1,011,307 96,507 11 „ ~894,791 27,668
1930.. 1,074,672 96,507 12 „ ~ 976,135 29,698
1931.. 747,927 96,507 8 „ „ 650,757 30,361
1932.. 585,299 96,567 6 „ ~488,068 31,085
1933.. 585,611 96,507 6 „ ~ 488,068 32,121
1934.. 585,850 96,507 6 „ ~488,068 33,396
1935.. 585,950 96,507 6 „ ~488,068 34,771
1936.. 667,761 96,507 7 „ „ 569,412 36,613
Special div. subsidiaries, £307,170 . . 343,783
Cash bonus (3J p.c.), £305,042 . . 38.741
1937.. 911,386 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 40,174
A statement of the finances incorporat-
ing figures of the subsidiaries in aggre-
gate is published for the first time. Share-
holders in the controlling co., it appears,
are owners of Capstans galore and have
tobacco and leaf virtually to burn ; stock-
in-trade (at or below cost) runs into
£6,205,747, representing 51 \ p.c. of the
tangible assets. Here and there around
Australia the business generally is owed
£1,181,292, and there are some small items
that might easily be overlooked if you
were in a hurry—£927,3Bs in Govern-
ment securities, £14,247 in shares, and
£80,298 in cash. Also, the concerns own
a bit of real estate (£1,075,062 —cost), and
plant—they use that to make the Cap-
stans with —at or below cost, is shown
at £1,312,121. These fixed assets aggre-
gate £2,387,183, and against them is a
reserve of £1,871,198, which could, if an
actual writing-down occurred, reduce
them to £515,985. Goodwill figures at
£2,693,164, after deducting some inner
reserves created by valuation of inter-
company shareholdings below par.
There was £1,347,065 of free reserves
at Oct. 31 ; £162,689 was paid out later
in a final div. Outsiders were owed only
£639,317. In balance-sheet form the
position appears as follows:
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Paid capital. . £9,619,186 I Freeholds . . £1,075,062
Outside shares 12,550 | Plant, etc. . . 1,312,121
Free reserve. . 597,474 j Stock . . 6,205,747
P. and 1. . . 749,591 | Debtors . . 1,181,292
Spec. reserve 1,871,198 j Investments. . 941,632
Liabilities* . . 639,317 | Cash . . 80,298
j Goodwill, etc. 2,693,164
£13,489,316 | £13,489,316
* Including tax provision, etc.
On these bare figures, allowing for the
final div., net tangible assets amount to
no more than 20s. lid. per ord. share,
and £6 13s. 6d. per £1 pref. That is in-
cluding the provision against freeholds
and plant as a true reserve.
The assets appear to be of a very good
kind, fairly shrinking with modesty in
the books. Last year they turned in 10
p.c. on the parent co.’s ord. capital, and
that, apparently, isn’t all the story —an
aggregate p. and 1. account is not pub-
lished. In the preceding term the co. in
which the public is interested showed
7 p.c. on ord. capital, as against 6 p.c.
in 1935.
The organisation is made up as
follows:
British Tobacco Co. (Aust.), holding.
Subsidiaries:
W. D. & H. O. Wills
(i Capital, £6,112,465).
British Australasian Tobacco.
(£7,150,918).
States Tobacco Co.
(£303,418).
S. T. Leigh & Co.
(£233,985).
The subsidiaries are interested princi-
pally in making cigarettes, tobacco, cigars
and packing equipment, etc., respectively.
For 13 years to Jan. 1, 1927, 12 p.c.
divs. were paid. A two-for-five bonus
issue then went out, and the div. dropped
to 10 p.c., lifting to 12 p.c. again in
1930. Slump and increased competition
caused the shrinkage shown thereafter in
the table. A special bonus of 3| p.c.
went out from accumulated profits of
subsidiaries in Jan., 1937, in addition to
the 10 p.c. declared in respect of last
term.
The current term should be as profit-
able as the last. Employment, a big item
in the consumption of tobacco and cigar-
ettes, continued to grow right up to the
end of 1937. It is difficult to look far
ahead, but, though there may be setbacks
later, at the present price B.T. scrip -looks
a fair investment. The future, however,
isn’t likely to be so gilded as the past.
At 50s. the ords. show 4 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. At 31s. 6d. the 6Jr p.c.
prefs. yield 4.1 p.c.
Associated Newspapers (Sydney)
, Dividends ■,
Net Pref.* Towards
Sept., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. Reserves,, Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Goodwill, etc., “Guardian,” £577,470 .. 577,470
Preliminary exes., £15,073 .. .. 592,543
1930.. 102,453 95,312 Nil 7,141 585,402
Added preliminary exes., £7B ..■ .. 585,480
44 p.c.
1931.. 66,631 66,914 Nil 585,763
74 p.c.
1932.. 106,153 106,710 Nil 686,320
8. Bennett shares written down,
£465,500 .. ~ .. .. 1,051,820
Reserves.
Ord. capital written off, £1,052,121.. 301
5 p.c.
1933.. 155,793 80,811 52,635 22,347 22,648
Reserved for depreciation, £20,000 . . 2,648
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1934.. 175,651 89,412 63,162 23,077 25,725
Reserved for depreciation. £20,000 .. 5,725
1935.. 176,771 89,437 63,187 24,147 29,872
Reserved for depreciation, £20,000 . . 9,872
From depreciation reserve, £7500 .. 17,372
1936.. 184,551 89,491 63,568 31,491 48,863
Bonus div. Sun Newspapers, £126,343 .. 175,206
To staff fund, £8729 166,479
Building- renovation reserve, £3OOO . . 163,479
Nominal
7 p.c. 7 p.c. Reserves.
1937.. 238,365 104,459 74,993 58,913 222,392
Staff fund, £2OOO 220,392
* Pref. div. subject to statutory cut of .224 p.c. from
October 1, 1931, and to special tax (2s. in £)
on income from property.
The year, taking into account the un-
distributed profits of Sun Newspapers
in the preceding term, resulted in net
earnings £73 better than in 1935-36.
Reserves in that table are subject to
goodwill and establishment account
(£1,683,878).
The Sun co. is now incorporated with
Associated Newspapers, which was
formed in 1929 to acquire control,
through shareholdings, of the “Sun” pro-
prietary (capital £900,000) and S.
Bennett, Ltd. (capital £425,000), which
put out the “Evening News” and other
papers. Associated paid £3,135,930 in
its own scrip for control. The daily and
Sunday “Guardians” were then bought
from “Smith’s” outright by Associated,
£400,000 in prefs. and £175,000 in cash
changing hands. Slump came, earnings
fell, and shareholders became noisily
critical. The “Guardian” and “Evening
News” were given an aniesthetic from
which they haven’t yet wakened. The
“Telegraph Pictorial,” which the “Sun”
had previously taken under its wing, was
issued again.
Finances reflected difficulties in the
publishing department, and in 1933 10s. a
share (£1,052,020) was cut off ord. capi-
tal. The ords. got a first div. (of 5 p.c.)
that year, “Sun” earnings being respon-
sible.
The “Telegraph” was sold early in
1936 to the Theodore-Packer co., Con-
solidated Press, which to date hasn’t paid
an ord. div. Associated accepted 125,000
Consolidated ords. The same people paid
£95,000 cash for the “Evening News”
building and another 35,000 f.-p. ords.
for the plant, so Associated is sitting on
160,000 Consolidated ords. Consolidated
publishes also the “Women’s Weekly” ;
Associated, “Woman.”
During last term Sun Newspapers,
Ltd., was put into liquidation, and its
assets have been largely merged with
Associated ; the move was all to share-
holders’ benefit, because it clarified the
position. In this table the 1936 “Sun”
and Associated figures have been com-
bined by the “Wild Cat” ; the 1937 figures
were already merged in the published
accounts:
1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. ..£2,546,031 £2,563,601
Outside interests aubsid. . . 9,250
Overdraft .... 1 f 289,694
Other liabilities . . }- 631,537* -j 144,065*
Provident fund j [ 8,243
Depreciation reserve .. 345,915 365,983
Land and buildings .. 640,909 645,128
Plant, etc 631,333 698,297
Shares subsidiaries ) onr . ivr S 12,229
S’hares other cos. j j 176,996
Stocks 225,500 293.437
Debtors, cash, etc... .. 356,769 160,921
* Including tax provision.
The date is Sept. 26. The working-down
of debts owing to the co. by £195,848
(to £160,921) helped in the reduction of
£188,535 in outside liabilities (£443,002,
including provident fund and unstated
provision for taxation). The liquid posi-
tion is quite comfortable, though hardly
flush.
Shares in other cos., including Consoli-
dated, figure at £189,225. S. Bennett,
Ltd., appears at only £11,982, and a final
clean-up, with some surplus, is looked
forward to.
It is plain enough that the daily “Sun”
(Sydney’s only evening paper) and “Sun-
day Sun,” with what goodwill they can
command, are the main assets of the
business. “Woman,” “Wireless Weekly,”
“World’s News” and the latest, “Pix” —
for people who can hardly read—are
sidelines. The value of the shares in
the co. depends almost entirely on earn-
ing-power of the daily and Sunday edi-
tions. Even if the depreciation reserve
(£365,983) be taken in as accumulated
profit, and Consolidated ords. be re-
garded as worth 20s. each (the prefs.,
on ’Change, are below par), then the
1,492,275 prefs. in Associated are covered
by 19s. 7d. in net tangibles on book
values; the ords. have only earning-
power behind them.
After providing £50,078 for deprecia-
tion, net profit was shown by Associated
last term at 12.5 p.c. on ord. capital,
after allowing for the prefs. Profits of
the two cos. in the preceding year were
virtually the same. The div. was lifted
1 p.c., to 7 p.c. It was a year of keen
competition among newspapers.
For the current term the outlook isn't
clear. Newsprint and wages have gone
up, and morning papers are cutting into
the drapery ads. Early in the piece the
“Sun” had a short and sharp dispute
with newsboys and newsagents which
didn’t improve its goodwill or income.
At 225. 3d. the ords. yield 6.3 p.c. on
a 7 p.c. basis; the prefs., now paying
7 p.c. also, at 255. return 5.6 p.c.
Yellow Cabs of Australia, Ltd.
Net Towards Re-
June, ' Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£> & & £
1928.. 20,580 Nil 20,580 37,770
1929.. 14,173 5 p.c. = 20,061 31,882
Capital returned, £100,305.
Loss on sale of assets, £2500 .. 29,382
Loss.
1930.. 8,309 Nil 21,073
Capital returned, £37,810.
1931.. 20,408 Nil 665
Deficit.
Loss on sale of assets, £5492 . . 4,827
Loss on investments, £2484 .. 7,311
1932.. 9,348 Nil 16.659
1933.. 2,893 Nil 19,552
Profit.
1934.. 2,932 Nil 16,620
Reserves.
Capital returned, £26,310.
Capital written off, £78,931 . . . 62,311
Written off freehold, £24,525, and
cabs, etc., £37,786 .. ..
1935.. 6,572 34 p.c. = 5,525 1047 1,047
1936.. 6,121 34 „ „ 5,525 596 1.643
1937.. 11,915 6 „ „ 9,472 2443 4,086
A div. at rate of 8 p.c. p.a. was paid
on March 3. The co. now leases its cabs
to drivers, and in Sydney, anyway, the
general arrangement is a penny a mile
rent from cabmen and a percentage
of the takings. With sesquicentenary
celebrations on there has been exhilara-
tion in the market for the scrip, which
lifted from 6s. for the 7s. 6d. shares in
November to Bs. 6d., cum div., last week.
Great talk has been heard in Mel-
bourne, where the co. also operates and
where a lot of scrip is held, about bulg-
ing revenue and imminence of higher
divs., and there has been a whispering
campaign among punters concerning the
gilt-edged nature of yellow-colored cabs
in general. Well, cabs did a wonderful
business in Sydney at the height of the
celebrations, and the shilling-flagfall-and-
sixpence-a-mile charge in that city has
made taxi-travelling a popular conveni-
ence at all times. It is one of the most
appreciated developments for a long
while.
Still, the cheap fares were in force dur-
ing Yellow Cabs’ financial year to June
30 last, and Anniversary celebrations
don’t happen every year. In the last
completed (1936-37) term profits prior to
allowance for depreciation showed a spec-
tacular rise, from £19,200 to £43,719
more than doubling. All the increase
didn’t go into net profit; depreciation
allowance lifted from £14,256 to £32,532,
the latter sum representing 55 p.c. of
the average written-down value of cabs
and equipment. In the three preceding
years the percentages were 23, 13 and
8, which takes us back to 1934, when net
earnings were less than 1 p.c. on capital.
Net profits for 1936-37, including reserve
movements, were 7.5 p.c. on capital, and
a 6 p.c. div. was declared.
New cabs are now being added to the
fleet continually, replacing old ones.
On a fleet of, say, 400 cabs (the number
in use has fluctuated from above 500
to below 400), each unit costing perhaps
£3OO, last year’s depreciation allowance
would write them out of the accounts in
four years. It is obvious that last term
a lot of old written-down cabs were
standing in the books, making the depre-
ciation provision seem high, and it re-
mains to be seen by how much the newer
cabs bump up takings.in order to meet
depreciation costs. The old fleet was
written down by £37,786 out of capital
in 1934.
The position really isn’t very clear to
outsiders if outsiders take it upon them-
selves to say that the 1936-37 deprecia-
tion allowance was higher than really
necessary. If the policy of the co. is to
keep a modern fleet of cabs in use, the
actual call for depreciation is going to
be heavier than in former years, though
possibly no higher than the sum allowed
last term. In the absence of full know-
ledge of what the cabs cost and their
mileage life, outsiders’ conjecture is
speculation indeed. It seems, however,
that 8 p.c. for the current term is as-
sured, with 10 p.c. a possibility.
Finances were in the following shape
at June 30 last:
iqoq IQQd 1 non IQQ7
Paid capital. . £401,219 £263,104 £157,863 £157,863
Overdraft . . r— 3,051 7,713
Sundry creditors 4,381 3,067 13,068 8,566
Freehold . . 154,657 129.981 105,510 117,318
Cabs, etc. . . 177.083 69,393 58,820 58,785
Garage equip-
ment .. 12,587 3,662 3,755 3,323
Tyres, uniforms,
etc. . . 12,398 5,204 6,110 5,987
Stocks . . 24.051 9,787 3,292 2,827
Book debts . . 25,567 2,172 2,054. 1,916
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 45,283 29,635 4,107 4,568
The outside debt was £l6O higher at
£16,279. Freeholds rdse £ll,BOB, mainly
by reason of additions to the Darling-
hurst (Sydney) garage —increasing busi-
ness made this necessary. Other items
in the balance sheet are mostly odds and
ends.
The best way, it would seem, of ap-
praising Yellow Cab scrip is to acknow-
ledge that business is profitable just now,
that a 10 p.c. div. is possible this year,
but that more than one year’s good show-
ing is necessary to demonstrate earning
capacity under the new conditions.


'Sk-3A
Fv
y\
i
A HOLIDAY
THAT'S DIFFERENT
Qm\t
email
€uvoj)e)r Happiest Holiday fawd
where both the welcome and
Hospitality from the people, the
unique individual beauty of scenery,
and a wide choice of different
surroundings will bring health,
happiness and lasting memories to all.
The 60% reduction in rail fares and
special Travel Mark exchange facilities
help to give the greatest comfort
at very moderate charges. Thus a
visit to Germany by rail or road,
air or sea, will prove a fitting
climax to your European travels.
For full information and free descriptive literature, apply:
>GERMAN RAILWAYS INFORMATION BUREAU
4Qept, Q.V.), I? Regent Street, London, S.W. I or recognized Travel Agencies,
Rail Trips at Easter
NUMEROUS EXCURSIONS
From the Country to Sydney
From Sydney to the Country
On specified dates applying to each district
during the two weeks preceding Good Friday.
Anywhere to Anywhere
in New South Wales
Daily until April 23.
*
From and to Other
Mainland States
From April 4 until April 23.
Printed handbills, obtainable at all stations, and at Challis
House, Martin Place, Sydney, explain the various
schedules of excursion fares, the trains by which holders
of excursion tickets may travel, and the period for which
the return ticket is available.
GO BY TRAIN—IT’S SAFER & CHEAPER
W. H. NEWMAN,
Secretary for Railways, N.S.W. (78)
if any illustration in "THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson, Ltd.
t Dividends
, Prefs.* —,, Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 10 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 75,139 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 38,550 42,670
Profit on sale of freehold, £17,681.. 60,357
1928.. 74,094 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 38,800 79,961
1929.. 72,701 13,500 2190 15 „ „ 38,700 98,272
Portion of goodwill sold to subsi-
diary, £7140 .. .. .. 105,412
Transferred to contingency reserve,
£15,000 90,412
1930.. 54,117 13,500 2190 10 p.c. = 25,800 103,039
Transferred to bad debts reserve,
£5OOO 98,039
F. A. Henriques, Ltd., absorbed;
added goodwill, £9384 .. .. 88,655
1931.. 43,412 13,500 2190 Nil 116,377
To tax reserve, £16,547 .. .. 99,830
Unexplained addition, £5925.. .. 105,755
Portion goodwill sold, £5588 . . 111,343
1932.. 48,919 11,222 1820 5 p.c. = 14,281 132,939
Added goodwill, etc.,* £Bl6 .. .. 132,123
1933.. 44,096 10,463 1697 6i p.e.= 18,565 145,494
Intangibles disappear, £3292 .. 148,786
1934.. 56,836 13,500 2141 9p.c.= 25,705 164,276
1935.. 76,170 13,500 2190 10 ~ ~ 28,562 196,195
To contingency reserve, £5OOO .. 191,195
1936.. 89,907 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 222,569
To contingency reserve, £6OOO .. 216,569'
1937.. 93,240 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 251,276
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October, 1931.
M.B. and T. isn’t the only co. in the
Commonwealth that sells bottle-seals, but
its Crown brand is perhaps the best
known ; it isn’t the only wholesaler of
vinegar and yeast by any means, but its
Champion’s vinegar is a standard line,
and bakers have been buyers of its yeast
for generations.
Then there are malt, corks, shop-fit-
tings, refrigerators and other lines, all
handled on a profitable basis. In short,
the co. has a really wonderful business,
in spite of competition that has been
attracted since the accounts were first
published a little over 10 years ago. Ser-
vice to customers has built up a heap
of goodwill.
The accounts under review were pub-
lished as far back as September, but at
present there is special market activity—
it is interim-div. time. The usual thing
is a 5 p.c. interim and 10 p.c. final, mak-
ing 15 p.c. If nothing better comes to
light this month there need be no heart-
burnings ; provided trade holds up, addi-
tional benefits must come. And, mean-
while, the buyer at 725. 6d. gets a yield
of 4.2 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. He
could be doing a lot worse. The pre-
mium over the par value of the ords. is
misleading. Net tangibles are visibly
equal to 375. 7d. per ord. share, and the
earnings of 27.2 p.c. on this class of
capital last year, allowing for the prefs.,
when taken in conjunction with the
steady piling-up of cash assets, suggests
that the whole story of the subsidiary
cos. isn’t revealed in the parent’s p. and
1. account and balance sheet.
The 27.2 p.c. shown on ord. capi-
tal compared with 26, 21.2 and
14.4 p.c. back to 1934. After paying
15 p.c. to the ords. and looking after the
prefs. (they call for £15,690 p.a.), there
was £34,707, equal to 12.2 p.c. on ord.
capital, left for reserves. These, at
£251,276, are made Up as to £45,000 by
depreciation account, £47,100 by div.
equalisation, £163,000 general reserve
and £37,356 p. and 1. carry-forward—
the lot less £41,180 trade-marks and
goodwill. The “Wild Cat” has no com-
punction in regarding the net figure as
being represented by undistributed profit.
The co.’s profits are written in one
line, with a footnote to the effect that
subsidiaries’ profits have been taken in
only so far as declared in dividends. The
co. trades in N.S.W., Queensland and
M.L. under its own name ; in Vic., S.A.
and Tas. as Harrison, San Miguel Pty.,
owning all the capital in that co.; and in
W.A. as F. A. Henriques (Perth), Ltd.
The scrip is listed only in Sydney. The
equipment of milk-bars has helped earn-
ings.
Finances must cause a feeling of light-
heartedness in the board-room. Nowa-
days the co. hasn’t any use for' banks,
except as a depositor and trader:
1928. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £429,900 £457,520 £457,520 £457,520
Sundry creditors 94,142 44,909 46,846 107,480*
Freeholds .. 169.545 209,083 209,083 209,083
Plant, etc... 37,192 34,463 37,798 45,809
foanfsSd.} 88 ’ 544 224 > 016 241 > 193 { 2 n,m
Stocks . . 128,845 82,231 98,759 124',471
Book, debts.. 152,460 57,082 78,573 59,079
Mortgage .. 64,000 51,130 51,130
Cash, etc. . . 8,837 94,130 88,756 163,528
* Includes provision for taxes and contingencies,
£47,950 at June 30, 1936.
Most interesting item is inscrutable —
shares in other cos., £239,502. This also
includes a holding in Australian Seal Pty.
and in Champion’s Vinegar (Aust.).
Amatice Refrigerators is a branch of the
parent’s business.
Freeholds, “at cost,” haven’t moved
up for years. Plant, at £45,809, is a
slender item. Stock, “at or under cost,”
rose £25,712 last term, which was in
keeping with the trend of prices and
trading activity. Book debts were down
£19,494, mainly because of separation of
sums (£11,211) due from subsidiaries.
Because of the repayment of a £51,130
mortgage due to the co. and the effect
of undistributed earnings, the co.’s hold-
ing of cash (£163,528) lifted £74,772.
Sundry creditors at £107,480 this term
include provision for taxation, staff bene-
fits and contingencies. In the previous
term the item was shown separately at
£47,950, and it had been gvowing.
The market is looking for a bonus
issue. The co. should have an excellent
year to June 30 next, and if trade pros-
pects then are still favorable there will
be something in favor of market argu-
ments.
Lancefield (W.A.) G.M., N.L.
At depth Lancefield’s lode has such a
sharp northerly pitch that surface-bore-
holes No. 1 and No. 3, put down well
inside the pitch indicated by the work-
ings down to No. 12 level, missed the
lode altogether.
Nos. 7, 8 and 9 levels had yielded over
150,000 tons of good-grade ore to June
30 last, and Nos. 10 and 11, still being
worked, promised to yield their quota.
No. 12 level at the north and south
ends showed a tendency to pinch out,
and no more than 100,000 tons was ex-
pected from this section of the mine.
The ore above No. 11 level, which was
what the co. started with in 1933, is ex-
pected to give out about the beginning of
1939. Hence the co.’s recent efforts to
define and develop the lode at depth.
But though 850,000 tons of ore was esti-
mated to exist below No. 11 level in
September, 1936, the unexpected be-
havior of the lode caused managing-
director Ridgway to mention in the last
report that
I would not feel justified in estimating
that more than 400,000 tons of average-
grade ore will be obtained between No.
12 level and the line of boreholes; this,
however, may prove a conservative esti-
mate.
The boreholes had found ore down to
1269 ft. vertical, 400 ft. below No. 12
level.
As a result of the 1937 report, Lance-
field shares slumped in fluctuating stages
from above 10s. to below 4s. In January
Dr. Moss was called in to make a geo-
logical survey. Meantime a north drive
on No. 13 level was continued, the lode
channel for a time being very disturbed.
Shallow bores were stabbed along this
drive for some time with negligible re-
sults. Then last week the sharemarket
became suddenly stout of heart on the
following report:— f
No. 13 level at 280 ft. north, hanging
wall, diamond drill bore at 17ft. encoun-
tered lode, continued in ore to 28Jft.,
highly mineralised lode, awaiting assays.
The shares rose from 45.. 6d. to 6s. 6d.
in Melbourne last Saturday morning. On
Monday 7s. 3d. was paid—values go
12dwt.
Values in this north drive until that
bore found the lode had been very erratic.
Exactly what the new discovery means
in tonnage and values won’t be known
for some time yet. But the thickness of
the lode drilled seems to correspond
favorably with dimensions at higher
levels. The market apparently hopes
that the disturbed section of the lode is
now being passed, and that values and
quantities will be picked up again, only
further north. To work the ore an in-
cline tunnel is being driven from the
main shaft.
Lancefield has 1,000,000 shares of 4s.
each. Excluding income tax, the mine
showed a net profit of about £1 a ton
on ore milled during the term to June 30
last. For the current term, partly because
of slightly lower returns, the margin
isn’t likely to be quite so good.
At 9s. 3d. per 10s. share, market valua-
tion of Triton’s Mararoa mine (Cue,
W.A.) is around £222,000. For the year
to Sept. 30 last a profit of 225. 6d. net
per ton of ore treated was cleared. Ore
reserves stand at 223,000 tons (grade
up 16,000 tons. If the
anticipated saving in costs of 4s. a ton
materialises when the new treatment
plant (capacity 9000 tons monthly) gets
into full swing in April, then on the basis
of past milling experience profit in sight
from proved ore is sufficient to repay
present market valuation, with some-
thing to spare. That leaves out
of the reckoning the possibilities of
Nos. 7, 8 and 9 levels, to be
developed during the current term. At


£C,r. •'“in!
'•; ,
'
X 1
:
.V
3K
m'
‘ ' ■',' '■
v
•ini!!
.
i‘ ,
JTfK
b'encLva
'I
Spend your life in
GOOD CHEER
HAPPY the men who have covered the risks of life and
death with enough A.M.P. assurance. They can look
the world in the eye and laugh at it. They can spend
their surplus money enjoying things; yes, and in other ways
that add to length of life.
Recently one of these cheerful souls was in hospital to have
his appendix removed. “Go ahead, he said to the surgeon. Go
ahead! 1 have four policies in the A.M.P., and if anything should
happen, the little woman and the youngsters will be all right.”
Could YOU say that, reader? Would your little woman and
youngsters be all right? You had better make arrangements with
the A.M.P. if you have any doubt about it. An average of one
family in two in the Commonwealth and New Zealand is now protected
through the A.M.P. About £21,000 every working day is paid out to
members and their dependents: £6,500,000 a year.
Don’t delay. A motor car may get you any time. Make proper
arrangements with the nearest A.M.P. office and then go on enjoying
life.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, Chairman of the Principal Board.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of tho Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 573 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
CONVEN
*6
■*s
•*v
;
A current account with the National Bank is a
positive convenience, a time-saver, a money-saver,
and an energy-saver. You can make payments from
your desk at home instead of wandering round the
town, spending time waiting at cashiers’ desks.
When you open a current account you are made
a participant in all the many services the Bank
provides. Obtain the free booklet, “Services and
Facilities,” from the nearest Branch of the Bank.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited ( Incorporated in Victoria)
49/16/38
No. 6 horizon grade and size of ore-
body have been well maintained. Also,
following geological examination, the
Emu South section, hitherto not much
help as an ore-producer but lately yield-
ing payable stuff at 135 ft., and other
areas are to be tested by the drill at
depth, after which Triton will decide its
intentions re the Rand leases, to the
north, concerning which a working agree-
ment has been entered into with Western
Gold. The slip of £6850 in last term’s
net result reflects higher costs, following
introduction of a shorter work week, and
milling interruptions owing to plant
additions: —-
Yield, Costs. Net Dividends—,,
S'ept., Tons. Ton. Ton. Profit. Share. Amt.
1936.. 77,715 6.94’dwt. 33/11 £91,078 -/6£24,000
1937.. 75,825 7.11,, 37/5 85,228 1/- 48,000
Of the £85,228 (= Is. 9d. per share)
cleared £45,000 is to go towards cost of
plant additions and £3175 is to be
written off old plant. During the year
two sixpenny divs. were paid. A third
has gone out since the close of accounts,
a fourth is payable next month and the
board hopes to be able to make two
similar distributions before the close of
1938. Special development expenditure,
etc., in the current term is expected to
run off with £20,000. For the first four
months 24,975 tons has been milled;
recoveries have been down to 6.1 dwt.,
but that reflects switchover to the new
plant.
* * * *
Yankee-owned and -controlled Big Bell
has within a few months of kicking-off
got into the front line of Westralian gold-
producers. January yield was worth
£50,000 Aust., making total revenue to
date £140,000. Before an ounce of gold
was won the co. spent three-quarters of
a million in plant and development. Ore
reserves down to 650 ft. vertical are esti-
mated at 3,500,000 tons.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Admirers of First Hit, Lady
Shenton’s near-neighbor at Menzies
(W.A.), are whooping about an “excel-
lent addition to ore reserves” in the
Queensland Menzies section of the prop-
erty. No mention, however, is made of
what such addition represents in tonnage.
When the last annual report was issued
(Oct. 31) there was very little ore de-
veloped or on the surface, but there was
stated to be £17,250 worth of residues.
A 3d. dividend was paid recently.
* * * *
Kunanalling (W.A.) is again broadcast-
ing. This time its recent purchase, the
Premier, is described as something
which appears to be worth having. If
so, a 10-head mill will be erected on the
property in preference to continuing on
the neighboring Blackett blocks, which
the co. is and has been working for two
or three years.
* * * *
Linden Gold (W.A.) now claims,
through its local director and man-
ager, H. Annear, to have ore in sight
worth £75,000 and to have a larger and
better proposition than earlier reports
indicated. In one of these T. R.
Victor (director) reckoned that, although
the mine, for which £lO,OOO and a
share-interest were given, was not a big
one, its gold-carrier gave promise of liv-
ing at depth. Crushing has been started
and a cyaniding is expected this month.
At date of balance sheet, Oct. 31, cash
at bankers amounted to £1099; but the
co. owed £3918.
* * * *
Continuation of the ore-body, showing
good values, below 800 ft. has produced a
rise of 10s. (to 505.) in Wattle Gully,
principal Chewton producer and Vic-
torian div.-payer. At the higher figure
investors and others are placing a valua-
tion of £150,000 on the mine, which
appears to have life ahead of it.
At present much of the mill feed
is coming from the 575 ft. and 655 ft.
levels. No estimate of ore reserves or
grade has been broadcast, the full
extent of the lodes here having not
yet been proved. Owing to the drop in
grade of ore, operations during the latter
half of 1937 resulted in a profit £6887
lower than for the first six months:
Tons Recovery, Net r~ Dividends
Half-year. Treated. Ton. Profit. Share. Amt.
Dec., 1936. 3614 10.4 dwt. £9,540 1/- £3,000
June, 1937. 8646 14.2 „ 39,064 10/- 30,000
Dec., 1937. 9589 11.8 „ 32,177 10/6 31,500
The result was still sufficient to
cover the increased distribution of 10s.
6d. per share, and a further 3s. has been
declared since. A cash reserve of £7OOO
—£lo,ooo is the ultimate aim—has been
accumulated to provide for future de-
velopment ; among other things, a second
shaft is mentioned. At balance date sur-
plus liquids amounted to £11,390.
J* * 3*5 *
Bright Valley Gold Estates (paid capi-
tal £25,000 in ss. shares) appears to have,
made a good start. The co. is dredg-
ing along the Ovens (Vic.), a few miles
from the Adelong plant. These are now
the only two operating cos. in a district
in which 40 small bucket-dredges were
once digging. Since operations com-
menced in October Bright has dug over
200,000 c.y. for an average yield around
2gr. Best weekly return was 730 z. from
14,000 c.y. So far rated capacity of the
dredge (18,000 c.y. weekly) has not been
attained owing to minor mechanical
troubles and the usual difficulties in open-
ing out a working face. The prospectus
spoke of 8,000,000 c.y. averaging l|gr.,
dredging depth ranging from 7ft. to 28ft.
* * * *
Mineral Explorations, Ltd., is regis-
tered in the Straits Settlements, but its
shares are listed in Sydney, where they
bring 9s. 6d. each. Chief interest at
the moment is a 76,000 ss. shareholding
(increased from 60,000 since the accounts
closed) in Hill End Alluvials Pty., Ltd., a
Hawkin’s Hill (N.S.W.) gold-sluicing
proposition which it is financing in con-
junction with Oriomo Explorations.
There is said to be some 1,342,000 c.y.
measured up, averaging 7s. sd. Aust. A
further 2\ million c.y. is also stated to
be available, which the co. is “prac-
tically certain” can be worked at
a profit. With one sluicing unit working,
annual profits of £40,000, to be split
equitably between the two holding cos.,
are mentioned on a turnover of 150,000
c.y., which indicates a nine-to-ten-year
life. A 30-million-gallon dam has been
built, and production has commenced.
As there is no overburden to remove,
investors should shortly get some idea of
the project’s possibilities.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.TJ.: (1) Depends on price. Sound enough
concern, but investments nearer home are
easier to keep an eye on. See “ ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,” Nov., 1936. (2) Leave a10ne....
G.E.J.: Can’t say. No open market for shares.
Ask secretary of each co. if he can find a buyer.
Making further inquiries re sign and other
cos WJ.H.: Speculative. Shares have
priority as to capital, and are entitled to a non-
cum. 6 p.c. and half of remaining profits after
ords. have had similar whack. Land would be
more easily negotiable should you desire to sell.
.... D.T.: H01d... .R.B.Q. and C.M.A.: Re-
viewing proposals shortly.... Small Investor:
Look elsewhere if safety of capital first essen-
tial. Reviewed B. 1/9/’37. Interim div. passed.
... .K.C.: High-grade manganese ore (minimum
assay, 43 p.c. manganese) fetches £3j-£4 a ton
delivered works, Sydney. Assaying is only
means of testing metallic content. Several de-
posits exist, most important in N.S.W. being
at Niangala and Grenfell. Write O. T. Lem-
priere and Co., Bowden-street, Alexandria;
McLeod and Co., Ralph-street, Alexandria; F.
Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Norman Hill and
Co., 11c Castlereagh-street, and Louis Burkard,
250 Pitt-street—all Sydney... .A. J. 8.: Bond-
holders have option of redeeming for cash or
converting into new 10an... .E.M.: Information
not available. Colonial Sugar, Colonial Gas
and Carba Dry Ice are among Eastern States
producers. Send prospectus of S.A. venture
for criticism D.V.W.: Australasian Paper or
Cumberland Paper ords. for preference....
W.1.A.: See par. this week. Suggest selling if
the price rises above 75.; you may do better
if development at depth turns up trumps, but
that is something of a gamble, though it has
been a good mine up to the present... .H.R.1.:
Don’t recommend.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
For all Pump Repairs and Replacements, get in
touch with William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence. Street, Sydney. Agents for WORTH-
INGTON PUMPS for all services. Write for our
latest General Catalogue.—Advt.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
{lncorporated in Victoria.)
O'CONNELL STREET
ACTS AS
SYDNEY
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwv.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
«iA B^ ant X Chairman >- Hon - Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
oir oranam Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
df
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO YEARS’
FREE SETTING
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. All
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
k Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle 21/-
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, to fit f and § blades, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney
SMOKE-OH!
An Old Game.
“The game of draughts was played in Egypt
as early as 6000 b.c.” — “S. M. Herald.”
When Antony ’gainst Cleopat with cun-
ning moved his men,
’Twas but to find that nimble lass too
shrewd for him again;
In fact, with love’s swift moves poor
Marc was well and truly floored,
Which proved that she wot up to every
move upon the board!
McM.
4 4 4 4
“Drinking plenty of water prevents you from
becoming stiff in the joints.”
—Physical culture journal.
Yes, but Sydney “joints” don’t serve
water.
4* 4* 4 4
“Some members say that a politician’s job is
a big strain on the pocket.”— Sydney paper.
And we know whose pocket!
4 4* 4* 4*
“Hitler has forbidden the use of white
bread.” — News item.
Sooner have a bread that leaves a
Nazi taste in the mouth.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The girl who won the hog-calling com-
petition in U.S.A. has been offered a hand-
some contract in vaudeville.” — News item.
That’s a better way of bringing home
the bacon.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Shunting operations interrupted Mr. Lang’s
address to railway workers.” — “Sun.”
Shunting operations appear to be
Jack’s main worry just now.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In the roaring days of the gold rushes, one
hard case swapped his wife for a horse.”
—Sydney paper.
Fair enough—one nag for another.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Contradiction.
“She declared that she left her husband be-
cause he was always intoxicated and refused
to bring food into the house.”
—Divorce Court.
What curious cases oft we meet!
This lover of the festive cup
Would ne’er bring home a thing to eat,
And yet his wife became fed up!
Nat.
4* 4* 4 4
“Although a doctor’s diagnosis and treatment
may be wrong, as long as his error is an
honest one he is entitled to his fee.”
—Sunday paper.
It’s one of the risks doctors run that
deceased may have left no assets.
4 4 4 4
“Soviet Ready to Meet Gas with Gas.”
— “D.T.”
All Gas!
4 4 4 4
“Stalin’s nickname,” says a returned visitor
from Soviet Russia, “is ‘Dog-face Joe.’ ”
According to a leading Moscow dog-
fancier, it will be at least four genera-
tions before the resultant hypochondria
now rife among Russia’s canines can be
eliminated.
4 4 4 4
“Most of the property which he had said
he owned was found to be non-existent.”
—Bankruptcy case.
Evidently it wasn’t real estate.
4 4 4 4
Even Euclid must have realised that
you can’t have a good line without
curves!
4 4 4 4
“A Connecticut (U.S.A.) barber has put up
a record by giving a man a haircut in 96sec.”.
In the accompanying running com-
mentary he got through the international
situation, last night’s fight, the weather
and a homily on the advantages of hav-
ing a singe after each haircut, but he
couldn’t get beyond the tips first
five races for the next day’s meeting.
Election day in N.S.W. will find every
politician all out to get in.
•I* *2*
“Farquharson’s cruel lips closed in a thin
straight line. ‘Can you guess how I did it?’
he asked cynically.” —Short story.
We can’t —unless he spoke through his
ears.
4 4 4 4
“Miss Stella ’s pretty vile frock aroused
envy in some feminine hearts.”
—Social gossip.
Somehow envy doesn’t seem the right
word.
Progress.
“I defy you to put me out,” shouted a grey-
haired woman, waving a stick, when a Donny-
brook broke out at a Sydney U.A.P. meeting.
When lovely woman stoops to poli-
Tics, and finds men hard to quell,
What art can soothe her melancholy
Except to kick up hell as well?
Stoo.
4 4 4 4
“Hitler Explains Mishap at Yallourn.”
—Daily poster.
It looks as if there’s nothing that
Adolf can’t explain.
Some Little-known Facts About
Australia’s Early History.
VII. — Land Ahoy!
The expedition having arrived at Point
Hies, the question arose whether it
would take a left-hand turn and go to
Tasmania or a right-hand turn and dis-
cover Botany Bay.
Joe Banks and Dan Solander wanted
to go south and see if the Tassie apples
were really so big that a bucket would
hold only two, as Abe Tasman had said
and the Apple Islanders have been say-
ing ever since. Jim plumped for north.
It was nearing the end of April and get-
ting cold, and he dreaded the thought
of chilblains. Moreover, he always got
a red nose in cold climates, and to have
facetiously-minded A.Bs. come up and
pretend to warm their hands at his glow-
ing proboscis was scarcely compatible
with the dignity of his position as leader.
On top of that, despite rigid instructions
to his valet not to rub them too hard,
his cotton underwear was
getting thin.
Charlie Green, as he him-
self said, “cared not a con-
tinental if he never sighted
land, so long as there were
sky above and telescopes at hand.” Never-
theless he threw in his lot with Jim,
shrewdly taking no risks about doing in
his deferred pay in case Jim got nasty
when they got home again.
It was deadlock, so Cook suggested a
toss of the coin—heads north, tails south.
All agreed. North it was, thanks to
Jim’s double-headed brown, though Joe
grumblingly remarked on the leader’s
phenomenal luck at tossing.
Thus it was that on April 29, 1770,
the lookout man sighted the headlands
of a bay, and they woke the navigator
up to tell him. Jim was enjoying a
snore-off after a good Sunday dinner and
was annoyed at being disturbed. By the
time he’d had umpteen yawns and a
good scratch, pomaded his hair and re-
placed a broken bootlace the strong
southerly had taken them up as far as
Bondi.
Owing to niggardliness on Lord Sand-
wich’s part, the brig hadn’t been fitted
with a reverse gear, so the explorer had
to tack back against the wind, eventually
sailing in between the heads to the cat-
calls and raspberries of the abos. lining
the cliffs. Jim’s weatherbeaten counten-
ance went a bright red as one lusty buck
sang out: “Baal sailer that pfeller, mine
tinkit!” and the rest roared with laugh-
ter.
The cap’n, slfghtly rattled, gave the
order to let go the hook and thus im-
press the natives with the white man’s
magic. But the leadsman happened to
be standing on it, getting the depth, and
he disappeared with it. By the time
they’d frantically fished him out the abos.
were helplessly rolling around doubled
up with mirth.
Cook decided it was time to boot
Momus overboard and call on Dignity,
so, gorgeous in naval panoply, he got
into the long boat accompanied by Joe,
Dan, Chilla, Tupia the Tahitian seaman
and Mrs. Cook’s cousin, Isaac Smith, in
that order of importance. As Jim said
to Chilla, a man couldn’t get away from
his missus’s relations even on a voyage
of exploration.
As they neared the shore the abos.
signalled them to a place to land, and
Cook gratefully made for it. Jim decided
to give the honor of making the first
landing to Isaac. Besides, if the niggers
started any funny business —well, if he
had to lose one of his herd of relatives
by marriage he would bear the loss with
what fortitude he could muster. So he
said: “Jump out, Ike.”
His relative, who was a bit thin-
skinned and hard of hearing, thinking
Jim had said “Jump out, tyke,” whirled
around angrily and shouted: “Doost
think thee’rt bein’ darm foonny, air?”
The frail craft lurched dangerously as
Ike turned and, tripping over the navi-
gator’s sword, took a header in. By the
time the boat reached the point where
the natives were congregated the inhabi-
tants were barely able to keep upright.
Cap’n Cook, realising the need for an im-
pressive landing, adjusted his three-
cornered tile and, hand on sword,
stepped on to the rock indicated by the
chief.
As his weight came down on it Jim
realised too late that it was a “floater,”
and before he could draw back one leg
had sunk to the thigh in the viscous
mud. While the abos. clung to each
other and shrieked till they wept poor
Jim had to be pulled out of his sea-
boot.
Then followed the most embarrassing
minutes in the explorer’s life. With one
foot visible through a large “spud” in his
sock he stood there, muddy and miser-
able, while the chief slapped him on the
back and howled with merriment.
S. W. K.
Zoo Woology.
“A tiger in the Berlin Zoo was provided with
socks because it was suffering from cold feet.”
It reminds me of the time I was a
zoo keeper.
I had a devil of a job one severe
winter. The elephant got a frostbitten
toe, so I measured him up for socks.
None of my old ones would fit him, and,
“Lend us y'r hankie, Spike, before the lights go on.”
not having a wife, I had to knit some
myself.
I did them in a basket-weave stitch,
using six-ply wool and a pair of walking
sticks as needles. What with one thing
and another I didn’t have them ready
until next summer. Now, an elephant
never forgets, and he had it in for me
for not getting them done for him toot
sweet. I’ve had four suits shrunk on
me and two bouts of pneumonia from
the deluges he gave me.
Then next winter the boa-constrictor,
which had contracted hay fever, had to
have a woollen singlet, and I was the
goat again. Over 20ft. long it was, and
I had to knit in circular motion. I had
to knock off every few inches owing to
the giddy spells. When it was 17ft. long
I found that I had put a purl where a
plain should have been in the third row,
and had to unravel it and start all over
again. I was just casting off the final
stitches when the damned reptile died.
By this time the hippopotamus had
contracted kidney trouble, and the
curator suggested a woollen abdominal
belt. Seventeen square yards it would
have panned out at; 734 skeins, using
six needles. He thought it would look
well in a cable stitch, and wondered if
I could work its nacrePi-ctagenet—
into the pattern.
But I had had enough. \Y a a few
well-chosen words anent the destination
of my ex-job I departed.
BO.


FLOORS BEAUTIFUL!
HUDSON'S ARTISTIC PARQUETRY FLOORS
m
mm
V
m
■: l
Hi
■■■
*
ni
v
r_. * - > *
»'
Jggji
gaar?>. $
v;
’ & ■ * »• •
I A
»• * m~~ i
Wmrsgl
",~f " u#l||[l#
■'. V ■
k
U
m
■
0m
,: ; i’
M
Mi
: :
They are practically everlasting and very easy to keep clean.
Hudson’s Parquetry Floors have well earned their reputation
for utility and lasting economy.
GEORGE HUDSON PTY., LIMITED,
Glebe.
Many artistic panels on view at our Showrooms, 7 Castlereagh Street,
near Hunter Street, Sydney.
Telephones: 8W1451, MW2771, MW2781, MW2791 (3 lines each).
North Coast Steam.
The North Coast which this ship-
ping co. plies to is that district of
N. S. Wales where Norco butter
comes from. The co.’s only seri-
ous competitor is the Railway De-
partment, which is no new factor.
North Coast Steam shares have
dropped to 365. 6d, down about
6s. 6d. on the 1937 “high,” and they
return £4 7s. per cent, on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. That is a good yield
from a concern that never paid
less than 8 p.c. during the slump.
Finances are in fine shape.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Market Leaders and Pointers
With uncertainty all about, particu-
larly in the daily papers, it is worth
while running an eye over develop-
ments in relation to leading sharemarket
stocks. In the case of base-metal shares,
prospects vary from day to day with
fluctuating metal prices ; in other cases
a longer view can be taken.
The following cos. are representative
of a number of classes of business. In
most instances trading results indicate im-
provement right up to the present.
Bank of N. S. Wales. —Profits of what
is considered one of Australia’s best-
buttressed banks last term were dis-
closed at 6.2 p.c. on capital, which seems
out of step when compared with the
Commercial of Sydney’s 7.2 p.c. and the
National’s 6.5 p.c. The Australasia, a
very strong bank, shows earnings to Oct.
31 at 6.7 p.c. on capital, practically no
change on the preceding year’s results.
There seems to be no immediate pros-
pect of big div. lifts, though bank clear-
ings suggest profits of a higher ratio than
at present being generally shown by trad-
ing banks. When Canberra defines its
attitude towards the banking commis-
sion’s report the institutions may embark
on a bolder policy of div.-distribution.
’Wales shares are a holding proposition,
and most bank scrip is the same.
Broken Hill Prop. —Steel output to
date is up 10.9 p.c. on last year’s figure,
and that leaves out of the reckoning any
increase on Australian Iron and Steel’s
account. Prices were lifted by from ss.
to 20s. a ton as from January 1. Wages
have risen, on the other hand. There is
still a shortage of steel in the Common-
wealth, and at the moment construction
activity is high, though liable to slacken
before the end of this year.
B.H.P.’s paid capital last balance day
was £4,982,014. On average capital
26.4 p.c. was earned during that term.
On August 31, 1939, paid capital will
have reached £6,971,652, and on that
figure last year’s profit would have
amounted to 17 p.c. With output on the
increase and the new issue of shares not
yet fully paid up, a good showing in
relation to capital should be assured
when the books close on May 31.
In the two years to May 31 last B.H.P.
increased the book value of sharehold-
ings in other cos. to the extent of
£2,404,652. About a third of this was in
respect of the A.I. and S. deal. The rest
represents investment in associated indus-
tries, many of them, like the A.I. and S.
plant at Kembla, not yet turning any-
thing in. Over the same period B.H.P.’s
debtors rose £1,752,772, to nearly four
times the 1935 total. This increase is
hardly on trade account; it also mainly
represents assistance to affiliated enter-
prises, and at present may be earning
little or nothing. For a sum in shares
and debtors representing more than half
the share capital to be earning little or
nothing is hardly the eventual aim of the
board ; these investments should give
handy assistance to earnings later on.
Carlton Brewery. —Most frequently-
dealt-in counter of the holding cos. that
control Carlton and United, the big Mel-
bourne brewing combination, Carlton
scrip has been much firmer lately at
around 665. ex div., as against 635. not
long ago. On a 15 p.c. div. basis the yield
is £4 11s. per cent., well above that
offering on Tooths (Sydney). C.U.B.
earned 15.5 p.c. on its capital in the year
to June 30 last —rather ancient history
now —and results for the current year
should be every bit as good. Last div.
was 12} p.c. p.a. The Carlton holding
co.’s accounts, made up to Dec. 31,
showed 16.6 p.c. on capital; a final div.
of 1} p.c., paid on March 1, made 15
p.c. for the year. Whatever div. rate is
declared by C.U.8., it is worth roughly
“Tchillin' —parkin fee."
an eighth more on Carlton’s capital.
Carlton usually shows about 4 p.c. on
capital from other income, and exes, aver-
age about 1.5 p.c. In spite of big divs.
paid, C.U.B. has expanded for 15 years
without the aid of further share capital,
and its finances are cosy.
Goldsbrough, Mort. —Wool sold in
Sydney last week at just below 12d.
Average for the season to the end of
January was 13.7 d., against 16.1 d. for the
1936-37 season. To compete with co-
operative cos., woolbrokers generally
have been rebating something like 20
p.c. of commissions lately ; that is one
reason why profits haven’t lifted to 1925-
29 averages. G.M. balances on March
31 ; in its last term it showed 8.6 p.c.
on capital and paid 8 p.c. An interim of
2 p.c. was paid, as usual, in December.
It seems most unlikely that a 6 p.c. final
will go out in June. If the year’s total
handout is 6 p.c., return at the current
market for the scrip (315.) would be
slightly under 4 p.c.
Adelaide Steam. —Australia’s largest
inter-State shipping concern, Adelaide
controls about a third of the tonnage
in the trade, fleet and fixed assets stand-
ing in the books at £1,409,618 on June
30 last. Consols and cash were shown at
£1,0L3,534, and all other investments, in-
cluding those in coal, appear in the
books at something around £500,000. The
position shows great strength.
Concerning conditions in the trade,
the comments of, Melbourne Steam’s
chairman are interesting:
The inter-State shipping trade is deriv-
ing benefit from the general activity in
the Commonwealth. Cargoes are plenti-
ful, although at no time has the volume
been greater than the ability of the inter-
state companies to provide the tonnage
necessary.
Passenger traffic, which had suffered from
slackness owing to the paralysis epidemic,
in the holidays had returned nearly to
normal. However, until the epidemic is
completely stamped out it seems that the
tourist traffic will continue to be affected.
Adelaide scrip should be excellent for
holding. It has had a firm market lately.
British Tobacco. —Accounts are re-
viewed in the “Wild Cat” column.
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber, which last
year earned 8.4 p.c. on ord. capital and
paid 7 p.c. (interim 3 p.c., final 4 p.c.),
has declared an interim of 3} p.c. Barnet
Glass, controlled by Dunlop’s, has lifted
its interim from 3 p.c. to 3 } p.c. The
motor trade continues to do a brisk
business.
Yarra Falls. —Australia’s largest textile
co. has maintained its interim at 10 p.c.
p.a. Davies, Coop has lifted its to
7 p.c. p.a., while Holeproof Hosiery,
Bradford Cotton and H. B. Dickie also
show improving business.
North Broken Hill. For the eight
months to Feb. 28 lead averaged £lB
14s. Bd. in London, spelter £lB ss. 7d.
Comparisons are best expressed as
follows:
Lead, Spelter, Profit.
Year, ton. ton. N.B.H.
£ s. d. £ s. d. £
1935- .. 16 4 5 15 311 636,940
1936- .. 23 2 9 20 2 1 910,628
8 mths.,
July-Feb. .. 18 14 8 18 5 7
Price
March 3 .. 15 7 6 13 17 6
In 1936-37 North’s profit was helped by
the sale of 7846 tons of lead out of
stock, and there was 13,192 tons on hand
at the end of the term. The mine’s pro-
duction S 3 far this term is on a scale
slight!' higher than in 1936-37.
Statistics generally show that business
in Australia is still good. Employment
is increasing in N. S. Wales and Queens-
land, building activity continued to grow
up to the end of 1937, factory output
and sales are the best ever, and motor-
car registrations are a record.
The growth in imports and fall in ex-
port values may affect the banking posi-
tion somewhat later on. Credit certainly
isn’t likely to be so free unless the out-
look for land-products prices improves.
As regards production, wool and wheat
at this early stage promise to show an
increase in the new season.
The greatest danger, to a continuance
of Australian prosperity, apart from what
may happen outside, revolves around the
point of costs. Costs determine whether
prices are payable or not, and whether
confidence or lack of it will prevail.
Base metals slumped again last Thurs-
day in London. Barriers were very quiet,
in spite of the big splashes in the press
about Britain’s rearmament programme.
Just at this time last year —John Bull’s
Budget time —the same sort of talk sent
base metals soaring for a month or two.
This year the markets aren’t having any.
Holders of Barriers will see better prices
than those quoted last week, however,
* * * *
Howard Smith ords. (B. 2/3/’3B) lifted
a shilling last week, yielding about 4,6
p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. A lot of
buying is going on in anticipation of the
annual accounts. Revenue, even from
cement interests, has picked up.
* * * *
Interim ord. div. of Davies, Coop,
Victorian cotton-spinners and weavers
and mercery-makers, is at the rate of
7 p.c. p.a., which is better than last
year’s average of 6 p.c. This stock was
picked here as offering attractive oppor-
tunities when around par. Last sale was
at 255. 3d.
* * * *
The yield on Consols maturing after
1944 is approximately Bs. p.c. lower than
a year ago, when £4 per cent, was looked
for.
* * * *
The ords. in Berlei, Ltd., Sydney corset
manufacturers with ramifications in all
States, Maoriland and Britain, keep
steady at 405., buyer, after sales at that
quote. Last div. was 10 p.c. out of earn-
ings disclosed at 15.6 p.c. The subsidiary
across the Tasman is very popular on
M.L. ’Changes, 655. being paid for the
£1 ords. there in return for a 11} p.c.
div. Berlei businesses have been effi-
ciently run, and finances are kept in as
good shape as the modern miss. Finance
is something that an otherwise efficient
manufacturer can easily fall down on.
* * * *
The fully-paid £1 shares of Bradford
Cotton (N.S.W.) may be bought at 41s. 6d.,
and seem very good buying. If 12} p.c. is
paid on old and new scrip this term, the
yield offering is £6 ss. per cent.; if 15
p.c. goes out, £7 10s. per cent. The co.
has an excellent business, capitalised low
and expertly managed.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
After declaration of a 5 p.c. interim, Yarra
Falls shares recovered 9d. to 38s. 9d. They
are still attractive to the general investor.
Loloma shares rattled up to 235. and then
came down to 225.
George Farmer paid the half-yearly div. on
its pref., which, slightly below par, show a
yield of over 8 p.c. There are market possi-
bilities in these shares.


-®«i f
■t
m-
„&MK jSS? ;
' m:m?
jM:- I -o%gg»g™
x.
*ssr ; i.: ;^
CK»
usva
■■■■^ppiiiis
siiiflowsaio
JOl nuui M3U t
„ T //. 7 r f
iiii
/?•• ~
Here’s a feature of the new 1938 Oldsmobile that gives
you even greater safety and protection the new
Oldsmobile Instrument Panel ! Every instrument is at
eye-level, grouped in line with your view of the road.
There’s no need to turn your head, no longer any risk of
momentary “blind-spots” caused by dazzle during night
driving. Light indicator, speedometer, ammeter, oil,
petrol and heat gauges are always in plain view, and this
new dash is SMOOTH . . . there are no sharp edges,
no projections at all ! It’s a great new feature you’ll
appreciate the minute you take the wheel !
You’ll find a new thrill, too, in Oldsmobile’s Independent
Front Wheel Springing, Cross Centre Control Steering,
Super Hydraulic Brakes and the mighty power and
flashing performance that’s yours to command ! You’ll
thrill to the luxury, safety and perfection of its gleaming
Unisteel Holden Body ... to the quality that keeps the
car’s condition ... to the economy that makes every
other feature more attractive.
Every mile you drive will increase your pride and
pleasure in this great new car. Why not take one on
the road . . . TODAY ? Your dealer will arrange a
demonstration to suit you.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
THE N E W 1938
\
“AIR CHIEF” CAR RADIO.
“Air.ChieF’ is the only set you
should consider when you
decide to install a car radio.
Provision has been made in
the design of Oldsmobile to
accommodate car radio and a
special “Air Chief” model has
been developed for this in-
stallation. The controls match
the other furnishings of the
instrument panel—the Speaker
(an eight-inch dynamic type)
fits flush with the roof lining
and the Receiver Unit, which
gives 9-valve performance,
fits right out of the way under
the dash panel.
The “Acoustinator” is an
additional feature which pro-
vides the best possible repro-
duction of every type of
programme.
Ask your dealer for a demon-
stration^
© If you are visiting
England, special facili-
ties enable you to trade
in your present car in
Australia and take de-
livery of a new Olds-
mobile in England. See
your local dealer for
details.
Use the Confidential G.M.A.C.
Payment Plan
your money goes further in a General
Motors Car
OLDSMOBILE
Consult your Local Authorised Dealer
Sold and Serviced by Oldsmobile Dealers all over Australia
Emperor and Loloma
The two big Fiji mining propositions
in which E. G. Theodore is interested are
now in the throes of large-scale produc-
tion. Loloma, first to start, had trouble
with the roasting section of its plant;
tonnages and recoveries were both affected
to begin with. The designed capacity of
500 tons a week hadn’t been quite
reached even in the clean-up to Feb. 23,
though the first crushing was made in
October.
Reported enrichment at the 224 ft. level
stimulated speculation in the scrip last
week in Melbourne.
At luly 31 Loloma’s estimated ore re-
serves were 138,960 tons, averaging
26.83dwt.:
Proved, 110,340 tons, grade 29.26dwt.
Probable, 12,620 tons, grade 16.60dwt.
Possible, 16,000 tons, grade 18.12dwt.
The last three four-weekly clean-ups have
given the following results:
Dec. 22. *Jan.29. Feb. 23.
Ore, tons 1700 1663 1875
Gold, fine oz. .. 1999 1790 2408
Dwt. a ton .. 23.53 21.03 25.69
Silver, fine oz. .. 755 591 459
Tailings, dwt. .. 3 4 1.5 1.75
* Mill shut down six days to convert elevator
housing from wood to steel. Operations
affected by wet season.
Chairman P. F. Cody, at the meeting in
Melbourne on Dec. 15, said the plant
was now running satisfactorily. The
board was confident that 95 p.c. extrac-
tion and better could be achieved. No
further trouble was expected with the
roaster.
The board could not definitely state costs
because of difficulties in the early stages.
Costs should be in the vicinity of 40s. a
ton, including 2s. 6d. a ton for develop-
ment redemption.
As regards the burning question of
dividends: v
With continuity of treatment and the
maintenance of the expected extraction
from now on, I see no reason why the
first dividend should not be declared be-
fore Easter, and thereafter at regular inter-
vals.
In the five clean-ups since crushing
commenced, 8098 tons has been treated
for 90940 z. Assuming that 15 times
as much ore remains for treatment (say
120,000 tons) as has now been milled, and
future recoveries average the same, there
would be something like 136,5000 z. gold
in sight, worth, at £8 10s., £1,160,250
(Aust.). If costs were 40s. a ton a profit
of about £920,000 would be indicated. If,
including all overhead, taxes, etc., they
were 60s. a ton, then the figure would
drop to £BOO,OO0 —at all times ignoring
the small revenue from silver. On the
same basis, profit to date would be about
£53,000. At 225. a share the market
values the show at £907,500. Obviously
much depends on what, mining, roasting,
cyaniding and other costs do eventually
run out at, whether recoveries keep up,
and whether later development gives
shareholders more than the mere pros-
pect of a chance of getting the market
price back over a period of five years.
Emperor has lately had the second
clean-up of its new plant ; less initial
trouble has been experienced here. Ore
reserves were stated as follows as at
Sept. 4: ; —
Proved.
Tons. Assay.
Oxidised .. .. 444,600 6.Bdwt.
Semi-oxidised .. 133,600 B.ldwt.
Sulphide .. .. 255,100 10.9dwt.
833,300
Prospective.
Sulphide .. .. 73,000 *lodwt.
Total .. .. 906,300
* Probable.
The first clean-up in the following table
is from the pilot-plant only. When
large-scale throughput started, grade
dropped heavily:
Dec. 25. Jan. 26. Feb. 23.
Tons crushed .. 2400 11,426 12,113
Head value, dwt. 8.8 6.8 6.8
Yield, oz. (est.) .. 951 3,044 3,798
Dwt. a ton .... 8 5.33 6.27
Tailings, dwt. .. 0.63 0.53
The new plant seems still to be working
slightly short of maximum capacity
(3000 tons a week). The fall in head
values has been attributed to the milling
of some 3dwt.-4dwt. overburden as break-
ing-in feed for the mill. There should
be no complaints against such a policy,
as a new plant absorbs a lot of metal in
its first run. Shareholders are hoping,
however, that opencut mining doesn’t
necessitate a lengthy period of ore-dilu-
tion —and low values. Mt. Morgan (Q.),
-which has a different sort of opencut, has
had great trouble over ore-dilution.
How the plant will manage oxidised,
semi-oxidised and sulphide ore is a ques-
tion. Director T. R. Victor (he also
spoke at the meeting of Golden Plateau,
Q ) says total costs will be about 17s. 6d.
Fiji, or 20s. Aust.
If costs, including taxation, came to
30s. a ton, and recoveries averaged 7dwt.
from the 906,300 tons of proved and
prospective ore going an all-over B.4dwt.,
then about £225,000 p.a. might be ex-
pected, in six years aggregating
£1,350,000, as against last week’s market
mine-valuation of £1,066,000 —at 13s. per
10s. share. Chairman W. H. Smith, at
the meeting on Dec. 11, said the value of
the gold content of ore reserves, less
mining costs, including development re-
demption ahd local taxation, was equal
to approximately 235. per share. But
gold content means nothing until extrac-
tion in regard to every class of ore has
been demonstrated. Also, expenses are a
vague item until the last bills for audit-
ing and taxation are paid at the end of
the year.
The boxing-writers who appear to be
guardians of the foreign policy of the
daily press are gaping at .a spectacle
beyond their Comprehension; in their
own words, Britain proposes to meet
Mussolini at a time when Italy is reputed
to be in financial and other difficulties.
Assuming that the difficulties are there, is
there any good reason why Britain should
not want a bad debt the size of Italy on
its hands? National bankruptcy usually
means social revolution and chaos in
trade. War talk apparently being mostly
bluff and bogey, anything Britain can do
in the way of lending a helping hand to
save a major Continental country may
prevent another world slump. Sick Men
in Europe have always been a curse.
Ailing France is bad enough.
* * * Me
Commonwealth Bank statistics show
increasing imports into Australia, with
no check in the flow ; exports, mainly by
reason of exceptionally good harvests,
etc., are just about keeping up to the
1936-37 standard of values, in spite of
lower export prices. If both import and
export averages are maintained, and the
wool clip is sold, a favorable trade bal-
ance of about £15,000,000 sterling is in-
dicated for the whole of 1937-38. This
would be less than half the previous
year’s showing, and about £7,500,000
sterling short of Government overseas
debt-service charges. London funds at
June 30, 1937, were £72,000,000 sterling
—helped by a bumper export year.
»■ * * *
As anticipated here, Castlemaine Per-
kins scrip has lifted now that the
rights have been taken. The Sydney
market was around 245. 6d. last week,
after being near 235.
* * * *
Australian Knitting Mills, which used
to be associated with Yarra Falls, has
declared an interim div. of 3d. on its
7s. 6d. shares. This is the same as for
last year, when (7.2 p.c.) went out
for the full term. At 10s. 3d. the yield
is 5.4 p.c., as against 5.2 p.c. from Yarra
Falls scrip at 38s. 6d.
The Federal bounty of Is. a gallon
on fortified wines exported from Aus-
tralia is to be continued for another
five years—until March, 1945. Last year
3,466,980 gallons of wine was exported
under bounty conditions.
* * , * *
Cocks Pioneer Gold and Tin, Eldorado,
Vic., got the permission of shareholders
last week to lift the face value of the
scrip from 10s. to 15s. A call of Is.
has been made. The co.’s 4.8-acre sluic-
ing area is to be worked in June. Mode
of treatment of another near-by area is
still being considered. Overburden is
the problem. Buyers offer 4s. 6d. for
the shares after sales at 6s.
* * * *
Australian beef, lamb and butter were
among the few items that ended 1937
with a better world price than at the
year’s beginning. And at present each
is bringing prices better than the 1937
averages.
* ¥ * M-.
The export value of Australian raw
sugar in February was a shade under 7s.
a hundredweight, as against an average
of Bs. in 1937. Growers and millers in
Queensland will be affected if the de-
pression in prices continues. Fairymead
and Gibson and Howes are growers and
millers.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Marmont (1904), Realm (1907), Wal-
lalo (1914) and Lempriere (1915) were
genuine hurdlers to land the Australian
Cup, in which Pooley Bridge gained a
place last year and again this autumn.
Latest winner of the 2|-miles handi-
cap, Marauder, opened his list as a
jumper in a Maiden Hurdle at Ascot
nearly six months ago.
It wasn’t until he joined the stable of
Bill Burke that the brown son of The
Buzzard started to give Wallace Mitchell
a return on the 500gns. which he cost as
a yearling. Marauder now is rising six.
With advancing age he has developed the
stamina inherited from his sire, who
comes from the Carbine family through
Spearmint.
After his hurdle victory Marauder was
given a six weeks’ holiday at Monomeith.
He next sported silk on January 26 in
a H-miles Epsom Purse, and smothered
his rivals at the close of the journey.
Stable hopes of an Australian Cup tri-
umph were then formulated. Ever opti-
mistic, Bill Burke declared that Marauder
would win the 2i-miler by “as far as
you can see a white cow in a bog.”
Ante-post speculation on the New-
market and Cup was confined to doubles.
Fancying Ajax, the owner of Marauder
coupled his horse with the flying son of
Heroic to win £15,000. On the day that
weights were issued Mitchell obtained
1000 to 7 and 1000 to 8, but much
shorter odds were accepted later.
Marauder leapt into Cup favoritism
after winning the Autumn Handicap on
March 2, shortening from eights to 3 to 1,
at which he started. But for being a
dyed-in-the-wool stayer the gelding prob-
ably would have finished near the tail
of the field. He didn’t look to have a
100-to-l chance five furlongs from home.
Finding that his mount would not
stretch out near the rails, Jack O’Sullivan
took Marauder to the outside of the
field. Facing for home the favorite had
a tremendous task in front of him, but
it was discharged with amazing courage.
He cut down Pooley Bridge and went
on to score by three-quarters of a length
from the plodding Old Rowley, who
deprived “Pooley” of second place by
a neck.
The credit of a new Australasian record
being established belongs to Young Cru-
sader, who set the pace until within a
measurable distance of the winning post
and headed the unplaced division.
Nadean’s Flemington record was low-
ered by 3|sec., while the 3min. 47|sec.
represents a reduction of 2£sec. on the
time for 2\ miles which Phar Lap put
up at Randwick in the Easter of 1930.
Undoubtedly the hero of the Fleming-
ton meetings was Ajax. Other supposed
champions suffered dethronement, but
Musgrave’s three-year-old won the New-
market Handicap with the heaviest im-
post ever carried to victory by a horse
of his age and annexed the C. M. Lloyd
Stakes on Saturday in thrilling style.
Starting at 7 to 2 on for the Lloyd
Stakes he stretched out in earnest over
the last couple of furlongs and won by
six lengths from Evening Mist, who was
nearly as far in advance of the tiring
Damalis. Ajax covered the mile in lmin.
35J-sec. —only a fourth of a second out-
side the course record which he put up
in the spring.
Ajax promises to be an unusually mas-
sive four-year-old. Even now, according
to Frank Musgrave, the trainer, he is
bigger than Heroic, the sire, was at any
period of his career. Judged on achieve-
ments Ajax is a galloper of the Woorak
type, who was peerless up to a middle
distance. Yet it would be hazardous to
assert that the magnificent chestnut can-
not stay. Charles Wheeler, who handled
many wonderful performers, maintains
that Ajax ought to have won the Vic-
toria Derby.
Hua’s guilty secret is out. He is not
a real stayer. He has proved that he
can go a mile and a half and finish
strong, but beyond that distance he
begins to labor. A few shrewd people
divined the truth when, as whips were
cracking, the Heroic colt ran wide in The
Trump’s Melbourne Cup —Carradale did
the same in Nightmarch’s Cup —but it
was not made plain to the multitude until
Tuesday of last week at Flemington.
The King’s .Plate distance was a mile
and -three-quarters, and, with only two
opponents, Damalis and Elanage, Hua
was favorite to 15 to 8 on, Elanage being
20 to 1 against. For a mile and a quarter
Hua had things all his own way. Then
Damalis tackled him, and when each
had run the other weary the Maoriland
colt came along and settled both —
Damalis by three lengths, Hua by an-
other five lengths. The race was solidly
run —the time was 2min. 58^sec. —and
when Hua was plainly beaten Wilson
took things easy on him. Afterwards he
expressed the opinion that Hua had had
enough racing for a time, but that doesn’t
alter the fact that the pride of Scobie’s
stable failed to stay.
Before this race M. Steinberg refused
3000gns. for Elanage, who was a wash-
out at the spring meetings in Melbourne,
but has advanced with leaps and bounds
since then. “I want to buy good horses,
not sell them,” remarked Steinberg. He
represents a big American paint firm in
Maoriland and has plenty of pelf.
Nuffield is another colt with a
clouded reputation. Though the familiar
excuses were made, he seemed fairly and
squarely beaten by Tactical (14 to 1) and
Pandava in the Ascot Vale Stakes, for
which his price was 6 to 4 on; and it
took Tactical lmin. 13 sec. to run the six
furlongs. El Golea (6 to 4), with 121 b.
more, had run out the Elms Handicap
mile in lmin. 37sec. Punters have an
enhanced respect for the Eastern Mon-
arch three-year-old.
His C. M. Lloyd Stakes defeat indi-
cated that Damalis has had enough of
racing for the present, and the Thracian
colt will not visit Sydney at Easter. El
Golea may go across for some of the
minor events at Randwick. Unfortu-
nately, he wasn’t entered for the Don-
caster.
Jack Holt’s troubles as a trainer are
multiplying. Avenger injured himself in
the Woodcliff Handicap on Futurity
Stakes day at Caulfield. The Pantheon
colt won’t be able to take on his Sydney
engagements and, indeed, may never race
again. It remains to be seen whether
Nuffield can do himself justice at Rand-
wick. He had two severe outings at
Flemington.
Coming from last at the two furlongs
pole, Regular Bachelor (8 to 1) over-
powered the leaders in the Leonard
Stakes and won by If lengths from the
consistent Amiable, with King’s Head,
a stablemate of Ajax, in third situation.
R. P. Trihey, owner-trainer, considers
that Regular Bachelor would have been
first home in the Newmarket if ridden in
similar style.
As was seen when he appropriated the
A.J.C. All-Aged Plate, Regular Bachelor
requires time to find his legs. He wasn’t
nominated for the Doncaster, and may
remain in Melbourne for races which
Trihey reckons will be easy to win with
the crack gallopers out of the way tem-
porarily.
Valhalla, trained by Bailey Payten,
was served up a 7-to-4 favorite for the
Gibson Carmichael Stakes. The Excite-
ment colt went under by a head to Sol
Green’s Brethren (tens), with Kingdom,
half a head off, an unlucky third. Val-
halla, a puller, will be a good ’un when
he settles down.
The 1936 Caulfield Cup winner, North-
wind, was backed from long odds down
to eights for the Farewell Handicap. He
cleverly vanquished Lolorua, who shifted
out towards the end and might have had
to survive a protest if he had won.
Mohican, the favorite, was skittled at the
start and in frequent trouble afterwards.
Bookmakers and punters all over Aus-
tralia are still discussing the Soltoi affair.
Soltoi was to have been one of a dozen
runners for the Bourke Handicap at
Flemington. Before the Ring knew any-
thing was wrong, he was favorite at 9 to
4, it being 5 to 2 Evening Mist and 6
to 1 bar the two. Then Soltoi fell in his
stall. The club vet. was called in;
“Cramp in the abdominal muscles,” he
said; and acting on this opinion the
stewards permitted the owner, John
Wren, to scratch the horse. Then the
fiat went forth: “All Soltoi money to be
returned ; all other bets to stand.”
Naturally the bookmakers objected.
They had laid a false price against
Evening Mist, and if she won they would
be substantial losers. They pointed out
reasonably enough that the day was
young—it was 25 past 4 —and there was
plenty of time for the race to be run
without incommoding trainers, jockeys
or public, if all money were returned and
speculated afresh. The stewards held
to their decision: Evening Mist came to
evens and won easily.
In these matters the stewards have dis-
cretionary power. According to a V.R.C.
rule, they “may declare all bets off when
they have permitted a horse to be with-
drawn after the time for scratching has
elapsed, and before he is under the
starter’s orders.” Bookmakers who pay
licenses and taxes when the army of
illicit operators neither have a right
to be considered, and it certainly seems
a case in which discretion should have
been exercised. As it was, the licensed
and taxed operators had to pay out on
a 5-to-2 or 3-to-l basis, whereas evens
was the illicit army’s price.
* * * *
With increased age and size the former
14-2 pony Blinky Bill has most decidedly
come good. Blinky Bill made hacks of
half a dozen opponents in the Brighton
Handicap at Moorefield. It was a good
betting race —9 to 2 Speardale, the favor-
ite, 5 to 1 Blinky Bill and Strathisla,
sixes to sevens the others.
Blinky Bill led throughout, and at the
winning post he was going better than
his immediate followers, Strathisla and
Morning Gift. Let Slip and Fern-
acre failed to stay the mile, while
Speardale ran the worst race of his
career. Bartle, who has won on Spear-
dale, was engaged weeks ago to pilot
the Menangle-trained horse, but through
a misunderstanding Findlay was posted
as the rider. The stewards took a hand
and decided that Findlay should have
the ride. Strathisla is the unluckiest
horse racing in Sydney—he has run 15
seconds.
“Ride him without whip or spurs,
Ted,” said owner-trainer Jack Cush to
McMenamin before Journal went out for
the Moorefield Handicap. Ted did as
he was bid, and Journal, outstaying The
Jilt and Tizarro, had the race won turn-
ing for home. The Caulfield Cup winner
was backed from sevens to 9 to 2. Clean
Play, a Queensland horse, was promi-
nent for a mile. Viceroy lugged badly
all the way, and After Six was all at
sea on the turns.
It was a great day for McMenamin
—four winners and two seconds. On
Bull Chase, who was 7 to 2 for the colts’
division of the Juvenile Handicap, Mc-
menamin’s smartness decided the issue at
barrier-rise. A slick son of Bullhead-
Redmyre, who carries the Billy Boy
colors, Bull Chase was out lengths from
No. 1 position when they had settled
down. Geebung ran on well to get
second place, and Aristocrat, a Queens-
land-owned and -bred colt, was third.
The fillies’ division proved a good
thing for June (5 to 4), a daughter of
Heroic-Winter, raced by trainer A. G.
Papworth and Cash —the former Talking
combination. Bonnie L., third (Areas was
second), is a half-sister to Crucis, a Syd-
ney Cup winner.
A good horse came to light in the
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap, the
Newcastle-owned and -trained Red Ensign
(7 to 1). Weiss rode the black a patient
race, and when he allowed Red Ensign
to run along at top speed it was all over
in a few strides. Gold Spark was second,
Dutiful —not yet ready—third. Careerbra
was tried in front; he tired in the last
furlong, and seemingly is not much good.
Red Ensign is a four-year-old stallion by
Royal Son-Red Leaf.
Backers were well on the mark in both
divisions of .the Flying Welter. In the
first division Electron (5 to 4) was too
speedy for Überous and Table Talk ; in
the second, Fan Tan (7 to 2) gave
McMenamin an armchair ride: To-
morrow and Fraulein chased his mount,
but were outclassed. Fan Tan is a
Maoriland-bred filly by Night* Raid-
Dresden China.
* * * *
Considering Ena’s fine form at Flem-
ington and the proved success of her sire,
who is a son of Windbag (and his sire
was Magpie), Liberals went cheap at the
Newmarket (Vic.) sales. Alan Cooper
got a couple of fillies (Liberal-Danubia
and Liberal-Cykanne) for 270 guineas
the pair. Nor was there much demand
for Windbags, the highest price paid for
an offspring of that horse being 350
guineas for a bay colt by Windbag-
Rolandra. Manfreds sold a bit better ;
Pat Nailon went to 600 guineas for a
bay colt by Manfred-Mount of Olives,
and Bailey Payten to 550 guineas for an-
other bay colt out of Scotch Song. One
colt by an Australian-bred sire did fetch
a substantial price; the brothers Mc-
Donald, of Mortlake (Vic.), paid 1400
guineas for a beautiful chestnut colt by
Heroic’s brother Thracian out of Queen
Consort. However, three buyers bid the
same 1400 guineas for colts by Lo Zin-
garo, imported by Sol Green and stand-
ing at Bacchus Marsh —one is a brown
out of Freezia, another a chestnut out
of Polyxena, and the third another chest-
nut with Virginal for dam. The progeny
of another new: imported sire, Porto-
fino, were also in demand, a colt by
Portofino-Waltzing Lily being knocked
down at 1050 guineas.
The sale demonstrated that, though in
the last' two or three years Australian-bred
sires have beaten importations out of
sight, the prejudice against them has by
no means been overcome.
* * * *
In spite of Dunningham, the interfer-
ing Minister, the A.J.C. is going to race
at Randwick on April 9 instead of at
Warwick Farm. The committee’s de-
cision has the approval of at least 99
p.c. of the racing public, and the Minis-
ter got the snub he went looking for.
* * *
Ken Richards, of Cowcumla, Coota-
mundra (N.S.W.), is dead. Riding a
horse near his homestead, he was
thrown, and as he lay on the ground the
brute kicked him on the head. A fine
polo-player in his young days, Richards
served in the war with a British regi-
ment. He owned some good racehorses,
and won the Albury Cup with Orange
Bitters. He was the father of the Rich-
ards girl who married the Earl of Jersey
and divorced him.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The tote had a problem in
a small meeting at Darke’s Peak (S.A.).
Only two starters; only one ticket (25.)
in the machine; the horse backed does
not win; the backer therefore tears up
his ticket. It was worked out this way:
The tote holds, after taking its commis-
sion, Is. 6d. to pay somebody; there
being no backer of the first horse, the
second must get it; the ticket-holder
hunts up the pieces and collects.
“Brass Addler”: The Empire Games
management expects to drop £5OOO over
the show, but as the Government guaran-
tee was £lO,OOO the management is los-
ing no sleep. Rowing was the most ex-
pensive item ; the cost is considered “out
of proportion to the value of the event.”
The next Games will be in 1942 in
Canada, with England to follow and,
perhaps, Maoriland after that.
* * * *
“Spike”: The cables have been making
a fuss because Glen Cunningham, the
American, has run a mile in 4min.
6 7-10 sec. It is claimed as a world’s
record, but the fact is it was run under
cover, and only spins in the open are ad-
mitted to the record books. Moreover,
the runner was paced by relays of peds.
The world’s record, established last year
by Wooderson, of England, is 4min.
6.4 sec. This was ratified by the Inter-
national A.A. Federation only a week
before Cunningham’s run.
C Continued on page 30.)
FOR CAULFIELD.
St. Kilda Handicap: Mananui;
next, Prince Quex.
South Yarra Handicap: Amiable ;
next, Aurie’s Star.
Kooyong Welter: Courage;
next, Sunraysia.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
March Handicap: Perimond or
Holbein ; next, Haut Monde.
Denham Court Handicap: Sala-
myne; next, Delmestor.
Edensor Park Handicap: Peri-
mond or Dutiful; next, Duke
Caledon.


Be a Diesel Engineer
Earn f’s Weekly EXTRA
through practical training in spare -time home study
*••1=
u
'■A— r m
*
w
k
Pm
YOU
can quickly qualify by prac-
tical correspondence training
in your spare hours for a well-paid position
in Diesel engineering—the coming profession
for trained engineers with specialised technical
knowledge. Never were opportunities so
great as in this relatively new and uncrowded
field of engineering.
BIG DEMAND
For Trained Men
More and more, the advantages of Diesel
power are being realised in all departments
of industry. Power users are changing
rapidly to this cheaper and more efficient
form of power. The demand for the skilled,
trained man has never been so great.
The College can teach anyone about Diesels,
even those who know nothing about internal-
combustion engines.
EXTRA Earnings
Here is your chance to capitalise on these
opportunities. NOW is the time to get into
Diesel engineering and qualify for the big,
well-paid positions that await the expert Diesel
engineer.
Expert Instruction
The scientific instruction offered by the Diesel
Engineering College, which specialises exclu-
sively in Diesel training, is your guarantee of
success in this fascinating profession.
If you are really ambitious—if you want to
earn more —if you want to get ahead of the
next man —to stand out by virtue of your
knowledge send in your enquiry to-day
regarding the Diesel Engineering College
courses.
It doesn’t matter how far away you live, you
can qualify just as easily as the man in the
city through these well-planned, comprehensive
courses.
Over 700 Students
Throughout Australasia
The Diesel Engineering College has over 700
students in all parts of Australia, New Zea-
land, Federated and Mandated Territories,
New Guinea and the Pacific Islands. This
vividly illustrates the fact that our course of
training is well and favorably known and our
practical service to all of our students has
shown successful results.
FUEL INJECTION nozzle
CMNK CASS
frtrtw G/stf
■ponr
U, WATER
'JACKET.
Section through 2-stroke Com-
pression-Ignition Engine.
Above is one of many Diagrams used in the
Course of framing, and very fully described
in the Paper dealing with this matter. Every
subject is fully explained and illustrated with
diagrams similar to the above.
Primary Course
The Diesel Engineering College engineers,
after years of research, have prepared a com-
prehensive course for the beginner in the con-
struction, operation and maintenance of Diesel
engines. The lessons are set out in the simplest
manner, with countless illustrations, diagrams,
etc., and are checked by competent examiners
who help) the student. This course covers two
main sections of Diesel engineering, either or
both of which may be selected: TRACTION
DIESEL (tractors, lorries, motor-buses, etc) ;
STATIONARY DIESEL (power plants
for factories, farming, electricity, etc.).
Advanced Course
(Including High-speed Diesels)
For mechanics, engineers, and those who
already have a preliminary knowledge of this
interesting and coming motive power.
This Advanced Course is covered by 12
lessons, and is plainly written, with all neces-
sary charts and diagrams, enabling the student
to make a comprehensive study of this im-
portant subject. All phases of research and
latest developments are covered from operation
to installation.
The many intricate Diesel problems which
occur and will continue to crop up are
thoroughly and comprehensively dealt with in
this Advanced Course, and the students 5
answers to the questions in the Lessons are
carefully checked and commented upon by
engineering experts.
Diploma Given
The student of the Advanced Course should,
upon its successful completion, be possessed of
all the necessary technical knowledge required
of a competent DIESEL engineer, and, in
recognition of the fact, is awarded the Diploma
of the College.
FREE BOOK
A free book has been prepared to give you
complete details of either course in which you
may be interested (whether Primary or Ad-
vanced). Send for it to-day.
Specially prepared by the Principal of the
College, Mr. W. Kingsford Smith, it tells you
simply and clearly of the opportunities in
Diesel engineering and gives full details of
the Diesel Engineering College courses, terms,
etc. The fees are low, and may be paid either
in cash or by easy instalments.
Remember, on sea, land, road, in factories and
in the air, the cry is for Diesel power and for
Diesel-trained engineers.
Find Out NOW
what opportunities Diesel engineering offers
YOU. Learn how you can, in your own time
and as you wish, study under the guidance of
qualified experts. And remember, it’s the
TRAINED man that gets the highly-paid
job.
It Costs Nothing
for you to send in your enquiry—and there is
no obligation. But it may be the turning point
in your life may show you the way to a
successful lifetime career. So write now
to-day.
Note. —The College has just moved to much
larger and more commodious premises at the
address shown below.
Offices at SYDNEY Newcastle
MELBOURNE.
Remember! There is no obligation if you
write for the Free Booklet.
Be sure and advise, when you write, whether
you require particulars of the Primary or the
Advanced Course.
DIESEL ENGINEERING
DEPT. 14, 255 a GEORGE STREET,
COLLEGE
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


INSTANT IGNITION
Price 5/- each.
Made in Australia under
Bosch Expert Supervision
PYROX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
"silver edge 4 '
BRAKE LINING
wmmrn
TRADE MARK, ff REGISTERED. THE RAYBESTOS CO. *
SAVE MONEY/
There is never any true economy in cheap articles,
particularly does this apply to your motor vehicle s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” Brake Linings have main-
tained a name for quality, building up a reputation for consistency of
product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove in the long run
if you ask for your brakes to be relined with “RAYBESTOS.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.r.O. Box 71. Melbourne. Vie.
FLUSH OUT
15 MILES OF
KIDNEY TUBES
Win Back Pep . . . Vigor . . . Vim
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 MILES of tiny tubes or filters
which help to purify the blood and keep you
healthy.
If you have trouble with too frequent blad-
der passages with scanty amount causing
burning and discomfort, the 15 MILES of
kidney tubes need flushing out. This danger
signal may be the beginning of nagging back-
aches, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, get-
ting up nights, lumbago, swollen feet and
ankles, puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic
pains and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait. Ask
your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE KID-
NEY PILLS . . . used successfully the world
over by millions of people. They give quick
relief and will help to flush out the 15. MILES
of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Miller Nearly Knocked
For a double champ. —bantam and
feather —Micky Miller is a busy little
scrapper. He’s probably too busy. He
faced the music 15 times last year, and
has kept up the rate over the last two
months. Shaping up to Joe Hall in their
latest Sydney Stadium engagement, he
looked white about the gills, and his
showing wasn’t a patch on the scrap he
put up against Covelli a few weeks back.
Micky can be a punishing fighter, but
he failed to inflict anything of a grievous
nature on Joe, who, by comparison,
looked like an ad. for a health tonic. Joe
had wanted the title tacked on to the
scrap, but Micky declined. With each
tipping the beam at a fraction over 9st.,
the fight resolved into a matter of Micky
lunging his way past Joe’s guardian left
and letting wallops loose at Joe’s tummy,
mostly stopped by arms and elbows.
Meanwhile Joe let off uppercuts or right
jabs as Micky came in, content to let
Micky make the fight and wear him-
self out.
Micky obliged in a lackadaisical
fashion for 11 rounds, with Joe blocking
quite up to Test-match standard, never
in trouble and occasionally shaking
Micky with a good clean punch. Micky
came out of his corner for the last round
with the air of a man condemned' to
take his wife shopping, and instantly
ran into a right wallop to the jaw which
all but settled him. With bent knees
and expectorating prodigiously, he clung
to Joe like a brother. Shaken off, he lit
out for the Far West, and only the ropes
prevented him from breaking the non-
stop record to Bourke. Pinned against
the ropes he bottled up and somehow
weathered a fearful onslaught, Joe stand-
ing a foot off him and slugging with
neither mercy nor direction. There was
still about a minute to go, and they
fumbled and hugged their way through
it. Decision to Joe.
* * * *
Former lightweight champion Jack
Read has compiled a rattling good “Aus
tralian Boxing Annual” for Mick Sim-
mons. It gives the detailed record of
every Australian boxer of any note, with
records of the world’s champions as well.
Also thrown in for the eighteenpence are
a world’s championship history, a glance
at the bare-knuckle fighters, pointers on
judging boxing and other articles and
pugilistic information by Read and other
experts. The records are complete up
to the beginning of this year, giving each
boxer’s age, birthplace, weight, measure-
ments and fights year by year. Dipping
into these records brings to light some
curious items. As an example, Fred
Henneberry, since he started fighting in
1930, has won six and lost two of his
scraps on fouls. Both these losses were
against Ron Richards ; those he got the
verdict on a foul against include Ambrose
Palmer. The best Australian fighter on
deck at present, Henneberry is one of
the only two who ever knocked Carroll.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: The N.S.W. amateur
golf championship will be late this year,
dates being September 10-24 instead of
the customary fortnight in June. The
event will thus follow the Australian
open meeting, which begins in Adelaide
on August 13. The N.S.W. close cham-
pionship will be held on October 7 and
8, and after that will come the P.G.A.
open championship with its £lOOO purse.
* * * *
“Mounted Foot”: N.S.W. A.I.F. golf
tourney for 1938 was won by F. L.
Snowden, of North Brighton club, but
not until he had tied with S. Cork, of
Moore Park. Snowden, with a six handi-
cap, finished 1 up on Cork, who was on
the 13 mark. The best scratch score,
72, was recorded by Mackenzie, the Aus-
tralian club’s professional. He was 3 up
at the turn, but faded in the run home.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Though it was at first
understood the Australian amateur golfers
to tour Britain would play only in a
series of unofficial matches against club
teams, it now turns out that the tourists
may be stacked up against both British
and American Walker Cup sides, a pro-
gramme which will try' them to the
utmost'. Individual members will enter
for the British amateur and open, and for
the Scottish Silver Tassie trophy, won by
Jim Ferrier.
* * * *
“Lakeside”: The first big U.S.A. golf
tourney since the new American rule for-
bidding more than 14 clubs took place
at Miami. Most of the star Americans
played, and, though one man had to dis-
card 18 clubs from his. pack, they
seemed to do as well with the smaller
“Sorry, listeners—afraid I've missed 'em — you'll have to Wait — no, by jove, I've got something! That last
horse Was Flatiron."
number as with the former multitude.
The winner was Revolta, who cut out
six clubs and finished with the low score
of 282. Thomson and Horton Smith were
among those who showed the change
made no difference at all to their play,
their totals being 283 and 285 respec-
tively.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”: The Australian Davis Cup
team leaves Sydney on June 9 or June
24. Cabled that the American zone final
must be over by August 15, the inter-
zone final by August 20 and the chal-
lenge round by September 7. It has not
yet been settled whether hard or grass
courts will be used.
The visit of the Australians to
Wimbledon was considered as settled, but
the A.L.T.A. has announced that an in-
vitation to do so for the fiftieth anni-
versary of the English L.T.A. has been
declined. Wimbledon has offered only
£125, and the amateur spirit has revolted
at its parsimony.
“Hotham”: The A.L.T.A. has flatly de-
clined to allow our Davis Cuppers to
play Mexico in Mexico City. Last time
the high altitude played Old Harry with
the condition of our players. Turn about
is fair play, and it is suggested that
Mexico come down to play on grass on
the East Coast of the U.S.A. about the
first week in August. If the Mexicans
are not agreeable the U.S.A. is to arbi-
trate.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Tennis tipsters
who consider that Budge is the whole
American Davis Cup team are due for a
shock by the time the challenge round
comes along. The American critics make
no bones in rating the 19-year-old Cali-
fornian Riggs as very little behind the
champion, to whom he is ranked second
on the U.S.A. list. Riggs is considered
certain to be the team’s second singles
player, and Sabin may replace Mako as
Budge’s doubles partner. Riggs’s handi-
cap is his extreme “chestiness,” as the
Yanks put it. Beside him Perry was a
shrinking violet.
“Kooyong”: The Melbourne health
authorities who recently prosecuted the
Melbourne C.C. for overcrowding are
now after the scalp of the State L.T.A.
for the same offence during the progress
of the international matches. The
health upholders bumped a snag when
they found that the L.T.A. could not be
legally prosecuted through its secretary,
as was originally attempted. The Crown
Law heads advised that the “blue” must
be handed to the committee. There are
70 members on this, and the prosecutors
are now trying to find out if the presi-
dent and a couple of vices won’t do as
well.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: The M.L. tennis heads are
taking so ill the Budge-Mako demand
for £2O each before showing in Auck-
land that they are reporting the matter
to the U.S.A. The rules on the subject
are rather vague. Rule 28 of the Inter-
national L.T.F. says such payments can
be made only when the player has been
officially selected to represent a national
association in a recognised championship
or representative competition (Sub. c).
Subsection ( d) enjoins that the receiver of
the expenses or the payers must have
previously obtained permission from the
receiver’s association.
*** 9 *
“Antbed”: The first Australian hard-
court championships will be held in Syd-
ney in June. Queensland started the idea,
and the A.L.T.A. has approved. The
N.S.W. hardcourt association will run
the show, which should draw a huge
entry, since the great majority of Austra-
lian players are mudhoppers. The cham-
pionships will be held on one or other
of the many fine Sydney suburban asso-
ciation courts. The N.S.W. hardcourt
association will pay the expenses of
players from other States, in striking
contrast to the attitude of their opposite
numbers of the grass variety.
Miscellaneous
“Aigburth”: In spite of rejoicings over
the omission of the dreaded Grim-
mett, the English cricket press is, to
quote London “Observer,” “petrified by
the very thought of the Australians,
while shameless newspaper presentation
panders to these regrettable misgivings.”
One man who doesn’t seem to have done
his block is Surrey’s skipper, Holmes.
He tips England for a win on the ground
that the Australian team is “more un-
balanced than those of previous years.”
Many in Australia will agree with
Holmes.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: It is like old times to
read the palaver held by the V.A.L. to
find out why the professional ped. game
has gone off again after a brief boom in
Victoria. Without exception all the ex-
perts laid the blame on peds themselves.
One man said it was generally known
that men ran dead if required, and an-
other that only a percentage of the
starters in a field were triers. The
same tricks killed the game in the long
ago, when it flourished like prickly-pear,
but gaffers were as much to blame as
their runners. Many gaffers were so
crooked they could sleep on a corkscrew,
and crossing, double-crossing and the
treble variety were as common as fleas
in North Sydney. The late George Hill,
a “sport” of the golden ’nineties, summed
it all up after an unusually bad stinging
over a Botany Handicap. “Never again,”
said George, “will I back anything that
can talk.”


COWLES & DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 3388. TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “CODUN,” SYDNEY.
HIGH-GRADE FISHING TACKLE.
■ l 1
/ :
r,■■■ ■
. .
V
m
# j
■••nt
RL77—THE “SUPER MONTAGUE” BIG GAME REEL
is the latest specially designed over and under reel to meet the
requirements of game and shark fishing in Australian waters.
Manufactured from a new alloy, 90% of the strength of steel and
60% lighter, 70% stronger than aluminium, non-corrosive, stainless
and absolutely immune to salt water action.
Guaranteed to stand up to the hardest test necessary.
Simple to take down and assemble with spanner
provided. Capacity 1000 yards. 36 cord, ratio 2
to 1, and guaranteed by the makers with
full service £ 21/15/-
“ATALANTA” BIG GAME FISH ROD.
The “ATALANTA” is a one-piece rod with detach-
able chromium—plated metal butt, and is constructed
of three strips of specially-treated treble-built split
cane to ensure maximum strength, and three strips
of carefully selected guaranteed second growth hickory
to give flexibility and life.
Dimensions are: Tip, sft. 6in. ; Butt, for
fishing with reel above rod ; Butt, lOlin..
for fishing with reel below rod. Price. . £lB/18/-
Used and highly recommended by Mr. Zane Grey, in
whose opinion it is the strongest, most beautifully
finished, springiest, and most enduring of all the
rods he has used.
GILLIES “BLACK PRINCE” GAME FISH
ROD.
Built of specially hardened treble built Tonkin cane.
Length of Tip, sft. 2in. ; Butt, 22in.
Weight of Tip, 23ioz £l5/15/-
“VIKING” GENUINE CUTTYHUNK LINE.
Made of best quality Belfast Flax, 39 cord, natural
colour.
500yds. 800yds. 1000yds.
30/- 48/- 60/-
Guaranteed manufactured from 50’s Lea Thread and
to comply fully with the rules set down for the
Anniversary Big Game Angling Contest.
BIG GAME CATALOGUE POST FREE.
fd
"GILLIES" |
fd
fd
f
df
df
d
fd
“Black and Whites* are just the
cigarettes for people like myself
who have to take great care of
their voice and throat . . .
99
N
v
t.«r
mi
IDENTICAL WITH THE
BLACK & WHITES YOU
BUY TODAY
9 for 6d. — 18 for I/-
CORK TIPPED OR PLAIN
fd
“Cash Amateur”: A strong plea for
the encouragement of amateur athletics
in country centres is put up by J. B.
Ashley, of the Dubbo (N.S.W.) athletic
club, in a letter to the Sydney press. He
says that only a couple of N.S.W. country
towns have such clubs, and points out that,
while young athletes are trained as ama-
teurs at school, they have no recourse
save to the paid variety of athletics
after leaving. He suggests that an
organising campaign by a paid official in
the country might discover youngsters
who would help to recover the prestige
lost by Australians in the athletic sec-
tions of the Empire Games.
* * * *
J. H. (“Jack”) Whereat, dead in Bris-
bane at a ripe old age, was a notable
disciple of Father Noah, though the craft
he designed and built were not on the
lines of the Ark. Many of Brisbane’s
most famous fliers came out of his shed
in the days of the 22’s, the Bulletin, for
some years champion in that class, being
the best of them. Later Whereat special-
ised in the 16’s, and the winner of the
recent inter-State championship was one
of his models.
* * * *
“Ace”: Though widely played in Aus-
tralia, that fine game squash rackets has
not a good press. Many were surprised
to read that the two Australian profes-
sional champions, Gordon and Jim
Watson, have applied to the Australian
squash authorities for permission to visit
Europe and take part in international
matches as well as the British profes-
sional and open championships. Gordon
Watson, who has recently been in Eng-
land, considers our men would have a
good chance against the best of the
Britons. The game has a great vogue
m the U.K., and a tour should help to
increase its popularity in Australia.
*** * .
“Birkenhead Park”: Irish Rugby foot-
ball is having a bad trot this season.
Beaten 36-14 at home by England, the
Irish lost to Scotland at Murrayfield, the
Scots scoring 23-14. This left Scotland
with two wins to one each by England
and Wales and one match to play against
England. Eire will have to down Wales
in its last international of the season to
score a point.
* * * *
‘Fitzcray”:. The Rugby Union game
continues to make some headway in Mel-
bourne, Adelaide and Perth. It has been
suggested that a triangular tourney be
held this year in Perth between Vic-
toria, South Australia and Westralia.
The Westralians suggest the last week
in August for the tourney, but South
Australia would prefer the middle of
July. The hurdle here will be the pres-
ence of the All-Blacks in Melbourne
during that month, and the later date
may be adopted.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Tom Pauling, who gave
such a fine display at centre three-quarter
in the first Sydney match against the
Springboks, is dropping out of the game,
and will referee in future. In this he
follows the lead of his dad, one of the
finest All-Black forwards this country
has seen. Tom senior got his first All-
Black colors in 1896, and came to Aus-
tralia the following year with the M.L.
side. Settling in Sydney later, he played
for N.S.W. for a couple of seasons before
faking to the whistle.
* * * *
“Gate”: The Rugby League’s grandiose
scheme for bringing a French League
team to Australia tailed; the French-
men declined the invitation. It’s a good
bet that most of the League officials are
breathing prayers of thankfulness, for
there is little doubt that such a tour, on
the form shown by the Frenchmen
against the Kangaroo side, would have
been disastrous financially. The League
is now talking of bringing out one ot
the League clubs from the North of
England or a “Welsh” team. No'League
is played in Wales, and to get a Welsh
side the ex-Union players bought by
the Lancashire and Yorkshire clubs
would have to be picked out of the 30
clubs composing the English League.
There is no chance of the clubs risking
their expensive purchases on a tour of
the kind, and just as little hope that the
shareholders and directors of any indi-
vidual club will allow it to tour Aus-
tralia and M.L. during the five months
of the League off season.
* * * *
“Stoush”: N.S.W. Rugby League
officials continue to bemoan the falling-
off of their code in popular estimation.
One frank delegate at a recent meeting
advanced a novel idea for making the
game more attractive. He scouted the
s.p. betting excuse, and advocated the cut-
ting out of “scrums, free kicks and the
paltry attitude of the referees towards-in-
dividual breaches of the rules.” There
is a lot to be said for his scheme. Foot-
ball under Rafferty rules or none at all
would certainly draw the mob. The
mcb would sooner watch a willing all-in
than all the scientific stuff ever served up.
* * * *
“Gate”: The St. George (N.S.W.)
Rugby League club has had an unusual
experience. The first-grade players’ divi-
dend panned out something under double
figures for the season. The juniors, on
the other hand, collected over £3O each.
They have announced their intention of
putting up for club administrative offices
and showing the seniors how to run
things.
* * * *
“Pineapple”: A long-drawn-out barge
among Queensland Soccer players has
ended in the formation of a State Soccer
League in opposition to the Queensland
Association. The new body will run its
own competitions; it' is supported by
most of the Brisbane clubs. The Ipswich
clubs, recruited like those of Newcastle
(N.S.W.) from the colliery workers, are
standing behind the original bodv.
* * * *
“Shinty”: The Indian hockey team
from the Mandavar club which is to
tour M.L. will probably stage a few
matches in Australia. If so Queensland
hockey players intend to do their
darnedest to get the side to Brisbane. The
Bananalanders have shown that they can
hold their own with the best of the other
States, yet they were passed over on the
two previous occasions on which the
Indians came this way.
*•* * *
“Blue Chalk” : During his recent match
with Lindrum McConachy discov-
ered that the table was an inch or two
lower than regulation size. On his return
to M.L. Mac blamed the table for his
defeat. No judge of billiards in the world
would give him a hope with the cham-
pion on level terms on any table that
ever was made.
* * * %
‘Shell”: A whip-round is being made
on the N.S.W. Northern Rivers for a
fund to send Paddon to the U.S.A. to
tackle Pearce. Some time ago Pearce in-
vited Paddon to come to Canada for a
series of elimination spins with himself,
Phelps and Barry to decide the world’s
championship. These take place in
October. If the money comes in Paddon
will be there.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
English and U.S.A. Film
Comedy.
Sydney Embassy’s current All-British
bill illustrates some differences between
English and American comedy.
In the main offering, “Sparkles,” the
cheerful ring in the Matthews voice and
the lightness with which she and the film-
makers take her dancing make a refresh-
ing antidote after a severe attack of
croonanhoof —the maundering moaning
and toe-and-heel tapping that go for sing-
ing and dancing in Gahd’s Own.
Also, the film avoids the Hollywood
recipe of jumbling up light comedy with
the slushiest of slops. Hollywood insists
on having in the lightest offerings of this
sort a deadly-serious sticky lurv in-
terest, with the whole future of the
human race dependent on whether a
crooning flapper will click with a tap-
dancing taxi-driver. In the English recipe
there’s the same thread of interest, but
at least it isn’t taken with the Yanks’
crude solemnity. The job in hand being
to turn out a dish of froth, the English
chefs insist that, whatever it turns out to
be, it at any rate won’t be a sod. Because
of the lumps of sentimental dough Ameri-
cans apparently call for in their comedy
trifles, these are mostly, in this respect,
grievously sodden to behold. If nothing
else could be said in their favor, the Eng-
lish film-makers can at least turn out a
job that runs on a note of light comedy
all the way.
The Yanks win easily on snappiness
and speed. Their comedy has a vigor
and vitality that shows up strongly against
the mildness and overpolish of the Eng-
lish effort. Their dialogue is very often
extremely clever; the English brand
rarely more than smoothly amusing. Now
that most of the Yank screen voices have
been filed they are mostly as easy on the
ears as the English, though the English
still have a bit on them in this respect,
and never inflict on a helpless audience
anything comparable with the dulcet
sounds beloved by the admirers of Joan
Blondell.
Both go in heavily for snob appeal,
but the English still take the bays in this
line. It’s not enough in “Sparkles” for
Barry Mackay to be an Oxford product
working as a detective at Scotland Yard
when the film opens ; before he starts
on the trail of the notorious international
lady jewel-thief of the piece it’s necessary
for his cousin to pass out, leaving him
an earl with manorial estate in the back-
ground. Sassiety connection isn’t so
necessary on the feminine side; good
looks, nice manners and the fact made
clear that, though she appears to be a
lady’s maid, Miss Matthews is really
nothing of the kind are quite enough
there. After all, the ballay old female
can always be lifted to the uppah crust,
what! It’s done, y’know.
One thing the Yanks have mostly
grown out of is trying to get a laugh out
of human deformity, but it* seems to last
well in England. In “Sparkles” there’s
little of it—the fat office-boy makes only
a short appearance—but in the support
English picture, “Said O’Reilly to Mc-
Nab,” the fatness of a woman is a real
loud ha-ha —or is so intended.
The English laugh at the Yanks also
gets a good run in both these films. In
“Said O’Reilly” the go-getter, though
Irish, has learnt his job in America and is
brought from there to Scotland to prac-
tise it; in “Sparkles” the attack is more
direct, the scene deliberately shifting from
London to N’Yark for the skit on Ameri-
can gangsterdom and the like. There’s
also a savage comment or two by the
way on American films, which no doubt
hit the English producer in a sore place.
The general reference to England in
Yank films, on the other hand, is that ab-
ject nostalgic reverence out of which the
American writer Thomas Woolf made
two interminably long novels. It must
be said for the Yanks that they generally
prefer to laugh at their own national in-
stitutions and foibles, and when they
have a skit on films, which is often, it’s
their own they pillory.
One bright instance of the English
turning the laugh on themselves is when
a dancer chap barges in on Scotland Yard
and is met with “Why don’t you try the
Foreign Office? I believe they dance
divinely.” But generally they hit hardest
when the target isn’t English.
“ Sparkles ”
Jessie Matthews.
Apart from what’s said about it in the
foregoing comparisons of English and
U.S. comedy, this Gaumont production
Sydney Wheeler threatens Don Nicol and Gaston Mervale challenges the Red Shadow (Robert
Halliday ) in the Firm’s revival of “Desert Song” at Sydney Royal.
at Sydney Embassy is a cheerful stretch
of light entertainment, dominated by the
pretty bundle of fluff who dances, sings a
bit, wears her fringe very perkily, laughs
very lightly and makes little round
mouths and surprised big eyes all the
way through it.
There are a few other ingredients, in-
cluding a male lead who has talent and
appearance enough to hold some of the
interest even with the Matthews present,
and a lively patch of indoor shooting in
the film’s skit on N’Yark ; but it’s the
Matthews who makes the show: a gay
little bundle of vivacity, a clinking
dancer, and with a catchy lilt in both her
singing and her talking voice.
For the rest, “Sparkles” is the lightest
of frothy comedy, with Barry Mackay
amateurishly sleuthing on the track of
lady jewel-thief and being drawn to Miss
Matthews by suspicion and held there by
lurv, what time the scene shifts about a
posh London pubbery, on to an Atlantic
liner, to finish up with a burst of shoot-
ing in N’Yark, with handcuffs —police
or matrimonial —for all. The Matthews
has had better mediums —it seems sheer
waste to keep such a pair of pins as hers
under long draperies—but She sparkles
brightly, and the whole thing ripples
along at a pace in keeping with its kind.
“Said O’Reilly to McNab.”
Will Mahoney, Will Fyffe.
Support at Sydney Embassy, and an
uproar. English-made, it’s a length of
straight comedy of a kind that rarely
comes out of an American studio.
Funny, not smart, is the word for it.
But mainly it’s different from American
comedy effort in that, though there’s a
thread of lurv interest in it, this never
gets within coo-ee of being taken seri-
ously. It’s something that just happens
to be going on, and though the plot
centres on it, and the principals even
play an astounding game of golf over it,
there’s no suggestion that posterity will
wrap itself in sackcloth if the mooning
pair don’t click.
The principals and the Irish-Scotch
clash suggested by their names and the
title of the opus dominate the proceed-
ings. Best of the humor comes from their
attempts to take each other down, typi-
cal national characteristics getting a good
run in this.
They also have a dancing contest —
one of the funniest things to be seen on
any of the films showing just now —in
which Ireland wins in a canter. In fact,
Ireland takes most of the tricks on the
way, but Scotland has the best of it in
the long run.
Each of the principals does a capital
job, but nobody else in the cast
matters, except a small boy who’s
a pain in the neck —that, for a change, a
tribute to his acting. A really nasty small
boy is a pleasure after Hollywood’s sim-
pering little snobs.
The English picture-makers don’t give
anything approaching the care that the
Americans give to minor support. Some
dreadful things are to be suffered
from Hollywood pictures, but at least
you don’t catch the Yanks featuring in
a romantic lead anything like the hulk-
ing broth of a bhoy who figures in this
film and whose acting ability, on this
showing, consists of well-pastured brawn.
“Stage Door”
Katharine Hepburn, Ginger Rogers, Adolphe
Menjou.
Theme of this part-fiction, part-fact
comedy-drama at Sydney Regent is
mainly tragic, with moral attached. It
has nothing like the savage presentation
of facts in “Dead End’’; nothing stark
or morbid. Everything is carried out on
a note of whimsical pathos and trimmed
with sentiment.
The male isn’t entirely neglected; all
the qualities of a good screen play are
there, including a continuous stream of
wisecracks. These are essentially feline,
but razor-edged, well-barbed and de-
livered with a forcible nicety and candor.
But in the main it’s the ladies’ party.
Menjou is the only man whose appear-
ance in a role of any importance is neces-
sary, and he, like the rest of the film,
is taken from the feminine viewpoint.
With the foregoing borne in mind the
film will stand up to any amount of
examination.
The story, or study, is of a score or
more actresses in a New York lodging
house, and among them they give a
pretty complete picture. For a while the
film rambles along concerned mainly with
presenting various characters those
waiting for their “big break,” others who
have had it and can’t get another, some
taking the easy road, some taking the
hard, but every one of them wanting her
name in six-foot illuminations and going
her hardest in her own way to get it.
Most of them realise that the odds are
half a million to one against, but they
go ahead with Micawberish optimism,
cloaking their feelings under a hard
veneer of wisecracks.
Plot takes definite shape when Miss
Hepburn enters as a wealthy young per-
son determined to work her way up.
That she succeeds in landing a leading
part and how she does it are the most
improbable parts of the film, but they
serve their purpose, which is to show that
as one goes up another comes down. Her
success marks rock-bottom for another
little actress, who, with fifty times the
ability for the part and a similar number
of reasons for wanting it, makes her exit
from a lofty window to a concrete pave-
ment. The catastrophe so affects the
Hepburn lady that her soulful reactions
change her from a cer-
tain flop to a headliner.
Though tragedy is
glossed over and the
story acted on a note of
carefree optimism, the
film concludes with the
implication that the cir-
cumstances and their
results are in the natural
order of things and will
continue to be so as
long as human nature
is what it is.
That alone is a note-
worthy achievement,
considering the nature
of the film and in view
of the fact that more
ambitious productions
—“Dead End,” for in-
stance • — have fallen
down on their job
when the fadeout ap-
proached.
A very effective bit is
when the actress who
loses her part to the
Hepburn lady is climb-
ing the stairs to the
window, and the sound
of the voices and clap-
ping that accompany
the rise of the curtain
are audibly presented
as her thoughts. It’s
been done before, but
mostly artificially. Here it emphasises
the meaning of the part and has the
authentic touch of drama.
Also, the film refrains from making
anything of the songandance possibilities
suggested by the presence of the Rogers
lady and by the fact that the characters
represent most branches of the stage. It
forgets, too, all about lurv interest—
Menjou dallies with Misses Patrick,
Rogers and Hepburn in turn, but the
associations are of a purely superficial
and mercenary sort.
Miss Hepburn walks off with acting
honors, giving her part just about all the
meaning that could be asked for ; the
Rogers lady’s hard-skinned battling tap-
dancer is as good as anything she has
done to date, and Menjou is admirably
suited to the role of a philandering pro-
ducer offering assistance to aspiring stars
in return for friendships with no strings
attached.
“Wells Fargo ”
Joel McCrae, Frances Dee.
Even casual filmgoers must have seen
other depictions of most of the events
in this 25- or 30-years canvas of American
pioneering history from 1840. Opening


Mining Notice.
TRITON GOLD MINES, NO LIABILITY.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend (the
sth) of Sixpence (6d.) per share has been de-
clared on all the issued shares in the capital
of the Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the
Registered Office of the Company on Friday,
the 22nd day of April, 1938.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will close
at 5 p.m. on Thursday, the 24th day of March,
1938, and reopen at 9 a.m. on Saturday, the
26th day of March, 1938, and shareholders
registered on Friday, the 25th day ol March,
1938, will be entitled to receive the dividend.
By Order of the Board.
L. EDWARDS, Manager.
Collins House, Melbourne,
March 3, 1938.
TRUCK OWNERS!
Ride the road that leads to
COSTS
• TREAD and CASING protected
by heavily ARMOURED
WALLS.
• GREATER RIM STABILITY
because of twin Bead Wires.
©MORE MILES AND SAFER
SERVICE because of greater
constructional strength.
MT.90.30.37.
i
■i
m
I
■
■■l
9K
;:
::
m
m&maci
Barnet Glass
TRUCK TYRES
are your greatest Profit Builders
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD., INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
up the western States, beginnings of Cali-
fornia, Civil War, hazardous job of get-
ting the Californian gold to Washington
for war purposes—it has all been done
and done again, both in the lump in big-
canvas pictures and piecemeal in hun-
dreds of minor films, before Paramount
made this Sydney Prince Edward offer-
ing.
It’s only a month or two since Sydney
Capitol had the gold-coaching story,
as good as identical, as main thread of
a Western. Even the turning-point of
the fictional plot—the break between
young gold-carrying hero and heroine
wife over a letter she wrote spilling the
beans to the Confederates about the nev/
gold-coach route —has had an airing be-
fore this.
Familiarity apart, it is a well-con-
structed film, leaving a solid impression
of the opening up of a big country, with
originality in its central narrative of the
part played by commercial transport in
that pioneering. It is based on solid
human values, the sterling qualities of
genuinely heroic men and women of the
kind who do things. Extra rich in its
leaven of humor, crowded with incident,
threaded on a sound story and so well
directed that it fairly sweeps along, it
makes excellent entertainment.
McCrae has a part right into his
hands as the young man who, for most
of the film, is getting the mails and gold
through to and from the pioneers for
the transport company of Wells and
Fargo. His wife makes an equally sound
job of the emotional side, and support
is exceptionally solid. So much so that
the film holds nothing better than the
humor of Bob Burns and his grunting
Indian offsider. Burns’s humor has the
genuine Mark Twain quality, remark-
ably different from the wisecracking
which is modern America’s chief export.
“Under the Red Robe.”
Annabella, Conrad Veidt.
Main offering at Sydney Mayfair this
is a British New World production,
and a thoroughly good film by any
standards. It makes no claim to be any-
thing but a stretch of Dumasesque melo-
drama set in seventeenth-century France,
and it’s that right to the letter.
It has one fault; somehow the musical
accompaniment to several pieces is a little
discordant and noticeable instead of
being heard and not noticed. On two
occasions in particular when the char-
acters and acting have supplied all the
necessary suspense the scenes are dam-
aged when the music crashes in suddenly
to spoil the climax.
Still, it would be a carping critic who
made much of that, and, anyway, the
photography is of such an excellent
standard that it could compensate for
half a dozen such faults. Most of the
action takes place in or around an ex-
pansive castle, and the camera has been
so capably handled that many of the
situations and even some of the acting
get most of their value from the photo-
graphy.
Without the color of “Wings of the
Morning” Annabella loses some of her
charm, but she is very satisfactory, ex-
cept that her features will not stand the
close-ups which the directors seem to
insist on giving her. Veidt, as a some-
what dissolute hero, fills the bill to per-
fection, and Raymond Massey’s Riche-
lieu is nicely done and quite suited to
the story.
“Jericho.”
Paul Robeson.
Picture has obviously been made for
Robeson’s fans among the American
negroes, whose inferiority complexes
must be pleasantly tickled by seeing him
continually outwit, bully and even
throttle white men.
Negroes, too, would revel in the
attempt to build up this large dark gen-
tleman into a Gable-Colman by tenth-
rate derring-do in the desert. Present
poor white liked the opening scene
where Robeson sang a negro spiritual,
and thereafter saw nothing of any human
interest till on the way home he spotted
the gorgeous person who advertises the
show at the door of Sydney Lyceum
walking home in all his scarlet finery,
pathetically alone in the dark.
Supports include Gordon Harker in
“The Frog,” which is mildly funny,
mildly mysterious and only very mildly
clarified at the finish.
Sydney Capitol.
If it doesn’t look out the management
at this address will be besieged by a
crowd of youngsters with a signed peti-
tion.
Main item on this week’s bill, for in-
stance, is a Western in the approved style,
with villains as vile as ever and a dainty
little minx for their victim. But the
hero
Admitted he pokes a blister in the
eye a couple of times, burns the dust in
front of a lynching posse and lassoes
the crooks just before they can cash a
cheque obtained from the goil under
false pretences. But he doesn’t blow a
single person full of holes, and when he
should be spending his spare time ridin’
like mad around the countryside, leapin’
40ft. chasms and shootin’ up»the land-
scape in general, where is he?
Shades of Bill Hart and Tom Mix!
He’s warbling at a fancy-dress ball or
strumming a guitar and yawping to the
moon!
Dash it all, that won’t do! Neither
will the supporting feature, in which a
gentleman wrongfully accused of moider
has only five days to vindicate his inno-
cence. One person who might lend a
hand is bumped off and another is run
down by a carful of crooks, but, without
even pulling a gun, the detective solves
it all by yawning five times a minute and
by boozing and dozing in between.
If this sort of thing goes on the young-
sters will be thinking about doing their
homework on Saturdays and saving their
pocket-money for the collection on
Sunday.
“Desert Song” Revival.
The Firm is filling in a couple of
weeks’ gap at Sydney Royal with a par-
ading of this hardy veteran.
Chief point of fresh interest is the
appearance of Robert Halliday, who was
the Red Shadow of the original N’Yark
production. He has a likeable person-
ality and can act, which can’t be said
for some previous Red Shadows. He
makes an effectively romantic central
figure in a handsome show.
Another good item is English com-
edienne Marjorie Gordon. An authen-
tic funny one, this lass; the brightest
fallabout girl seen in these parts for many
years.
She has a good partner in Don Nicol.
A pity he makes effeminacy such a big
item of his stock-in-trade. It’s a sickly
business at the most, and Nicol can be a
good comedian without it. There’s origi-
nality in his style, he can dance, and he
knows how to hold an audience.
Arthur Clarke, Mayne Lynton, Sydney
Wheeler and co. make a scrofulous-
looking bunch of Arab cutthroats, so
heavily dressed and disguised that the
parts could conceivably be played as well
by any dozen members of a synod or
licensed-victuallers’ conference.
Outside the excellent Miss Gordon and
the sinuous Azuri of Gwen Brown, who
is both a good dancer and a good actress,
the show’s weak on the feminine side.
Margret Adams has voice, but too
severe control of her countenance and
coiffure for the wreckage she’s supposed
to work in male torsos. Yvonne Ban-
vard, who was responsible for one of
the best-acted bits in “Balalaika,” is badly
cast in this. She is excused in advance
for dancing at the funeral of whoever put
her into the rigout she wears.
“High Flyers”
Wheeler and Woolsey.
The breezy pair do their best with the
usual piece of triteness at Sydney Cameo
and Civic, but their brand of humor is
becoming a little familiar and seems just
about played out.
This time they are mixed up with dope
smugglers, jewel thieves and a canine
kleptomaniac. It offers scope for their
line of damfoolery, and they take it for
all it’s worth. And they certainly keep
things moving at a helluva speed. Any-
one who can’t raise a chuckle at
Wheeler’s impersonation of Chaplin must
have frozen ribs.


M^ x \
/
\
jo
zSS
A
When
a MAN
tells you:
that he is thankful
to Calvert’s Tooth
Powder for a life-
time free from
dental trouble and
for white teeth in
his old age——
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth!
c >^AR/f
v^ 4
tf liH 1 -
- ..I.® 1
TW'Si**-
Position Wanted.
TYPING. Authors’ MSS. quickly, neatly,
accurately prepared for press. ’Phone X 6770.
To Businessmen and Others.
WHEN undecided on any important or
serious matter, business or personal, con-
sult me for expert advice. As I only
advise on matters that I am competent
to deal with, I guarantee satisfaction, or
money refunded. Fee from 5/- for inter-
view and advice. No Advice, No Charge.
Call, ’phone 8W6115, or write.
Everard Hedemann,
General Adviser,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BRAN DAU ERA
m
c*
t*"*
2*
GOT
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDAUKR * CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There was a pretty masquerade in the
gardens of Vaucluse House last Sun-
day, when Miss and Mrs. Sydney and
their cavaliers of 1820 and onwards for-
gathered at the invitation of Mr. and
Mrs. Wentworth. Crinolines, bustles,
polonaises and old coaches made the
lawns and the approaches pictorial.
Caroline Chisholm, a bit of anachronism
bustled up, in the Rankin carriage. The
H. C. Blaxlands represented their fore-
bears, the Gregory Blaxlands. Rosalind
Kennerdale made an attractive Mrs.
Martin, wife of the C.J. of his time.
This afternoon party, judging by the
scores of onlookers, was one of the cele-
bration’s successes.
If you had been lucky enough to see
the police march through the city on
Friday (and if you were short it took
some wriggling, there was such a crush
of Force fans) you went out to the Police
Carnival on Saturday. Those dashing
cadets in their “creams” were a certain
draw. This was the vice-regal fixture for
the afternoon, and Lord and Lady Wake-
hurst seemed to enjoy themselves as much
as any. In spite of the autumn fashion
shows, the vice-reine wisely shaded her
face with a wide-brimmed black hat, and
wore a cool dress of beigy-pink. The
cycle events and those intelligent police
dogs were the star turns of the afternoon
for one onlooker. In addition to
criminals, what do they feed those dogs
on? Would have asked Chief Commis-
sioner Mackay, but he and his wife were
busy entertaining the importants. Dahlias
of prize size from the garden of Ser-
geant Booth were presented to Lady
Wakehurst and to Mrs. Mackay. The
Mayoral Nocks, the Brigadier-General
Hardies, Captain A. G. Scott and Mrs.
Scott were among the thousands who
saw the march past.
Nearly a decade had dimmed this
Letter’s memory of “The Desert Song.”
After fighting her way into an evening-
dress in the hot stickiness of Saturday,
it was a relief to find how really good
the show is. There seem still to be a
thread or two missing as to why Pierre
had to be alternately the Red Shadow
and Mr. Hyde, but who cares in a show
where romance runs footloose? *
Present were the Bertie Kellys and
Mrs. Alan McGregor, whose white-and-
gold jacket topped a slim black frock.
Petal pink and ostrich fronds distin-
guished Mrs. Florence Taylor. Jade-
green and Mrs. Talbot’s russet hair were
a nice contrast. Black lace was worn by
Mrs. E. J. Tait, and midnight blue by
Mrs. Tonking. Currant-red satin was
sleek on Mrs. E. Baume. Among young
things enjoying the revival were Kath-
leen O’Neill and Marie Connelly.
All the women guests at the A. C.
Godhards’ parties wore the latest thing
in autumn millinery. It all had an up-
ward sweep. There were berets and haloes
and Cossacky headwear, and nothing
meek or lowly about any of it. Mrs.
Godhard herself went hatless, and on
the second day of the merrymaking wore
a deep-blue frock of silk grosgrain. The
flat, which is really two turned into one,
was massed with the pink of roses and
the blue of delphinium, making a nice
color harmony with the ivory setting.
Large expanses of the harbor, which is
seen from every window, glittered bluely,
and just under- the lounge window rode
the Henriqueses’ yacht. Mrs. Henriques,
who was at the first reception in a suit
the color of a pale-pink hyacinth, told
how she was now busy planning a minia-
ture garden. A suit of ciel blue was
worn by Mrs. Albert. A soaring beret
suited Mrs. E. Baume, Mrs. E. Grace
was there ; so were the Frank Chaffeys
and Mrs. Godhard’s mother, Mrs. Bul-
lock. At each party there were between
80 and 90 guests.
Artist Eileen Pearcey (now Mrs. Ram-
say Moon) is back in Australia after
seven years of study in London and
Europe. She attended the studios of lan
McNabb, the celebrated etcher, and
Andre Lhote. Last year she showed at
the Artists’ International Association, and
at the Paris Salon her chalk sketch of a
ballet dancer received excellent notices.
Eileen did many of her ballet sketches
backstage at Covent Garden, and on
the last night of the season found Daryl
Lindsay there busy sketching. The Aus-
tralian girl’s sketches of the Hindu
dancers who fascinated London theatre-
goers are characteristic and vivid, and she
will include a series of them in the show
she is planning for Sydney in June. This
photograph is by Monte Luke.
Still another island of health has been
added to the Prince Alfred colony of
healing. It’s the Psychiatry Pavilion. The
opening of it brought a flurry of poli-
ticians, among them Federal Minister for
Health Earle Page, William Morris
Hughes and State Minister for Health
FitzSimons. But don’t think now that
the Gloucester House, the Nurses’ Home
the X-ray Department and all the other
recent buildings are in full swing, that
the trowel and the hammer are to be
superannuated. During the speeches (the
ceremony of getting the pavilion opened
took nearly an hour) Dr. Bertie Schlink,
chairman of P.A.’s directors, announced
that the board looked forward to an-
other half-million’s worth or so of ex-
tensions. Dr. Earle Page, once on the
P.A. staff, told how he met his wife,
then a young nurse at the same hospital.
Love’s flame, it appears, was lighted
simultaneously with an accident with
methylated spirit.
The Hans Meyers, direct from Europe,
have decided to stay awhile in Sydney
and show us the latest in ballroom danc-
ing. They gave an exhibition of their
art at Hopewood House last week while
200 pairs of eyes followed every move-
ment. Both are slim and lithe, and Mrs.
Meyer, whose good looks are dark and
vivid, showed to advantage in a frock
of white crepe, finely tucked to the hem.
The skirt had gold inlets, and the same
shade gleamed in the shoulder-straps.
The reception to welcome the newcomers
had five hostesses and an unofficial M.C.
in the person of Albert Collins.
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, one of the
hostesses, of course, made a speech,
which was replied to by Hans. In spite
of the warmth of the night, the deep-
toned dahlias which decorated the ball-
room told that autumn was upon us. A
touch of autumn, too, was in the frock-
ing of Mrs. F. J. Davy, another hostess.
Violet Roche, who also helped to re-
ceive, wore black and gold. Lacquered
satin gleamed on Mrs. Claude Plow-
man, who soon travels to Europe. Mrs.
A. Chartres, one of the hostess quintet,
had a green ostrich frond or two at
the waistline of her wine-colored sheer
frock. Hopewood House principal, Miss
Nancy Jobson, had a black net cape as
addendum to her flowered crepes. The
Julius and the Fuller ladies were there.
Margot Ruthven’s candy-striped chiffons
were a bright spot.
Ardent Australians could have wished
to see a better attendance at the Con-
servatorium for the night given over to
our home-grown composers. This was in
every way an interesting programme.
Three girls took part in it: Miriam Hyde,
playing the piano part of her own con-
certo in conjunction with the orchestra ;
Isolda Hill, who sang three of her
father’s songs; and Heather Kinnaird,
singing in the Roy Agnew composition.
These three presented complete contrast.
Miriam, her graceful dark head rising
from a russeVTed frock, had a pensive,
statuesque look. Heather, tall and slim,
all pale lilac shining through white silk
gauze, would have pleased an Aubrey
Beardsley. Isolda Hill, dagger-slim, was
vivid, her beige chiffons boldly arabesqued
in black and gold.
In the audience were the Bertie Kellys,
who brought a party. Their great
moment was the playing of the flute
serenade by Bertie’s brother, the late
F. S. Kelly. Bertie, by the way,
looked sensible and cool in his well-
cut white dinner suit. Mrs. Harold Bott
was a front-seater. Her white taffetas
were scrolled with gaily-colored flowers.
Near by sat Mrs. Hope Gibson in black
and gold. The Kelso King lady and
daughter Hazel were there ; so were the
Alfred Hills. Dr. and Mrs. Burnard from
Kirribilli were other eager listeners. The
doctor had one of his works on the bill.
Jean Rofe was one of the reasons of
the success of the party for the Royal
Alexandra Hospital for Children. Jean,
just past schooldays herself, manne-
quined in one of the 1925 period frocks.
To-day she sails in the Orontes for Eng-
land. Mother Mrs. Wyndham Rofe and
grandfather Shand will make up the
family party. Photograph from Rene
Pardon.
Highlights of the Period dress parade
at the Trocadero were Anne Morell,
wearing mother’s Court dress; Joan
Levis, in a ruby-red Empire frock
of 1838 ; Jessica Chard, in a crinolined
souffle of white net brightened here and
there with posies of French hand-made
flowers ; Jean Rofe, dressed for an after-
noon of 1925 ; and Joan Hartigan, as a
sports girl of 30 years ago. There were
bustle and polonaise and pompadour
periods. Many of the frocks had be-
longed to Morell ancestors. Some of
them were from the designs of Mrs. Gil-
bert Graham. These fashion pages of
bygone years were arranged by Mrs.
Sterling Levis.
Fashions of to-day and to-morrow
(they were just as smart as that) were
interspersed with song numbers by Ray-
mond Beatty, Heather Kinnaird (in
sky-affer-rain-blue chiffons) and Clem
Williams. The Trocadero was crowded
with Sydney’s smartest, and none smarter
than John McKelvey’s lady. Her slim-
fitting skirt was navy, her fitting jacket
of white sharkskin, her wide-brimmed
and Breton-sailorish hat of white felt.
One of the brightest parties was hos-
fessed by Mrs. Athol Chard. Mrs. 1.
Mackay, in black and white, was a JV in "
terested onlooker; another was Mary
Makinson. Her sharply-upturned hat was
of shiny black straw. Mrs. Harold Dew
was president of the petticoat progress,
which will benefit the building fund *?. r
a new school for crippled handi-
capped children at the Children’s Hos-
pital. -
Mrs. Bainton arrived in Sydney rrom
her English journey last week, and as
soon as she had cleared the Customs alter
the Ceramic berthed she was booked tor
welcomes-home. One of the first P a^h es
was given by Mrs. Harold Bott and Mis.
Hope Gibson. This was a Friday after-
noon tea-drinking in the Australia. Helen
and Guenda came with mother. The
wife of A.B.C.’s chairman Cleary was
present. Mrs. Moses was another at the
red-rose-decked tables. Mrs. Malloch,
whose daughters Joan and Lynn are
students in London, listened intently
when Mrs. Bainton spoke of her meeting
with the two North Shore Line girls.
Joan is at the London School of Interior
Decoration. Lynn is getting a Royal Col-
lege of Music polish on her violin-play-
ing. Hazel King and Mrs. Waterhouse
were among the guests.
The Dr. David Knox couple, of North
Sydney, flung their doors wide last Thurs-
day, and in stepped a hundred guests.
They came with congratulations on the
twelfth anniversary of the wedding of
their host and hostess. Mrs. Knox bright-
ened her all-black raiment with old
Italian gold clasps at the neckline and
gold bracelets of the same grape design
mooring her black gloves. There were
buffets in three rooms, and one in the
garden. The savories, all made at home,
were tinted pink, blue and amber, and
toned with the candles and flower pieces
of their respective rooms. Small daughter
Anne, not yet seven, darted about, a
small sprite of helpfulness, in green.
The story of “Spring Tide,” put on at
St. James’s Hall by the Dajonian Reper-
tory Society in aid of the funds of the
British Drama League, concerns eight
young things who went to London to
seek their fortunes and found them. Old
stage favorite Nellie Ferguson played the
part of the landlady who functioned as
fairy godmother. The dressing in the
third act was as sumptuous as a manne-
quin parade. Jill Gaywood, one of the
successful girls, donned a black cylinder
frock with cummerbund waist, covered
it with a black skunk cape, and crowned
the whole with a black Schiaparelli hat.
In the audience were the Gordon lady,
president of the B.D. League, the C. L.
Jones couple and half fashionable
Sydney.
Anthony Horderns’ ushered autumn
into the Trocadero midway through
last week. Green, pencil-slim dresses
popped into the parade fairly fre-
quently. Many of these had narrow
dull leather belts. Patent leather, too,
adds a smart touch to the season’s wear.
Fur sleeves and fur pockets gave promise
of comfort when the present humidity is
chased by the cold westerly. Somebody
is going to look very attractive when
winter nights come in a ground-length
evening coat of black velvet with white
flat fur sleeves. The high heel again has
it for evening wear.
A man remarked to this Letter the
other day, “Between devil shoes and
halo hats it’s just Hades for the plain
woman.”
These devil shoes were given quite
an important place in the dress shows
last week. They are peaked at instep
and heel in the Mephisto manner.
Another hurdle for the woman Who looks
as though she does not regard her daily
meat as so much rank poison is the cum-
merbund. Cyclamen lipstick is very new.
Penny tan, shocking pink (a sort of rich
cyclamen) and carnation red are the
season’s variations on the old dyepot,
and still black reigns supreme. Apart
from the extreme which points the style
rather than is the style, the autumn
displays remind one of the woman in
“Call It a Day” who, after bemoaning
that she always had to wear a last year’s
dress with a new coat, groaned “Oh, to
be naked, with a cheque-book!”


ir
Eucalyptus Extract
1
V.
z
K/
$5
\
z
A
\
r
On account of high quality, great strength
and its sweet, fresh smell DOUBLE “D”
Eucalyptus has become the most popular
Eucalyptus in Australia. Always keep
DOUBLE “D” in your medicine chest it’s
the remedy of a dozen different uses.
DOUBLE “D” is a splendid antiseptic and
should always be used on burns, bruises and
all kinds of injuries. DOUBLE “D” also
makes a splendid mouth wash and gargle (a
few drops of DOUBLE “D” in a tumbler of
water is quite sufficient). Save the circular
from around your next bottle of
DOUBLE “D” —it will tell you a dozen
other different uses.
Fight FLU 3 Waps
wv Mith
Double D
isiuxUfhtuA Sxtiatt
Don’t be misled into thinking a cold is unimportant because it is common to most of us. Science
has discovered that a cold may have far-reaching consequences. Complications can be traced to it
for 10 or even 30 years. Don’t take risks with ’Flu. Fight it with the DOUBLE “D” Three-way Treat-
ment and destroy it completely.
l
z
3
TAKE 3 drops of DOUBLE “D” on a lump of sugar.
RUB chest and back thoroughly with DOUBLE “D.”
INHALE 15 drops of DOUBLE “D” in hot water when retiring.
DOUBLE “D” is double distilled —is guaranteed free from phellandrene and all irritating aldehydes—
and contains over 70% Cineol. For your own safety demand DOUBLE “D” and take no other.
9d. ENORMOUS SALES 1/3
THE PURE , STRONG EUCALYPTUS WITH THE SWEET, FRESH SMELL


You
Will
Enjoy
ll
ii
TM
m*r.
A Stay at the Wentworth
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality. You
are treated with the consideration you would meet with in
your own home. Although close to business and social
centres, the Wentworth is situated in ah elevated position
away from trams, trains and other annoying influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms have just been added and a
24-hour hot-water service.
WENTWORTH HOTEL
SYDNEY
C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
J. S. LEVY, Manager.
a
fd
Write for Booklet
Suite 601 K, City
Hunter and Bliah
115 Collins
and PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeai
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing aid. Non-electrica
—Practically invisible—
No wires—No batteries
—No head-bands.
Obtainable direct from new
Sydney consulting rooms.
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Mutual Building, corner
Streets, Sydney; and at
Street, Melbourne.
Melbourne
Chatter
With the races, polo and parties that
are all squeezed into a brief eight days,
March Race Week is apt to leave Mel-
bourne rather breathless and inclined to
go to bed early and stay there late. When
it’s all over the social world draws in its
horns and gets out its knitting, prepared
to be subdued until winter activities get
going. The country folk go home again
to the quiet contentment of their stud
sheep ; and the sparrows which flit from
State to State or from one side of the
world to the other are planning a few
rustic week-ends before hopping off to
Sydney for the things that happen at
Easter.
Races and polo took place on alter-
nate days, and the late afternoons were
celebrated with a giddy cocktail or two
at private homes or hotels, with dinner
dates somewhere else and dancing in yet
another direction. One of the most elabo-
rate private parties was given by Mrs.
H. F. Creswick at Yarrien for her niece
Helen Wood. When considering novel
innovations with which to entertain her
guests, Mrs. Creswick banked on the
assumption that there’s a bit of child-
hood left in each and every one of us,
that in all grown-up memory-boxes are
pinpricks of the bright lights, wheezy
mechanical organ and jigging horses of a
merry-go-round. The thrill of the hurdy-
gurdy was worth one of Voronoff’s mon-
key glands. There it was, a revival from
a village fair, in the garden of Yarrien,
with the one and only organ-grinder tune
and grey steeds, fiery of eye with the
same handfuls of tough ropelike mane
that gave joy to young hearts long before
the folk who went a-riding that evening
were born. Ajax, Marauder, Nuffield,
the horses soon had names and backers
as coat-tails and fluttery gowns of the
jockeys streamed out behind them in the
breeze.
Mrs Creswick wore palest-pink mush-
room lace, her daughter Sheila was in
white taffeta and her cousin Helen, feel-
ing herself a lucky girl to be guest of
honor at such a party, was in a gown
of palest-blue satin, ornamental with
fairy-fan pleatings.
A north wind, a sultry sky and a warm,
sticky morning were the factors which
persuaded women that they would rather
chance a deluge than die of heat, so that
it was dark clothes but lightweights that
came to the second V.R.C. meeting. As
punctual arrivals in the luncheon-room
swallowed a last oyster pridr to starting
on the turkey, the wind changed and the
temperature dropped six degrees in the
same number of minutes. The rain came
down with the afternoon-tea, so that m
the long run the minority who went out
in suits were most comfortable after all.
Among them was Mrs. Bill Seymour,
in a beautifully-tailored grey suit, who,
with Valerie Crowther, had a share in
a communal umbrella during the first
shower. It was at that time that Freda
Connolly found her despised man’s um-
brella useful; for the only kind of gamp
she takes to the races is one built for use
if not for beauty. Suntanned Win Moran
wore pearl earrings and necklace as the
only relief for • her ginger-brown color
scheme. Louise Moran’s navy-blue dress
had embroidered motifs upon the short
sleeves; with it went a navy taffeta hat
turned up over one ear.
Also in navy, a favorite choice for the
day, was Mrs. Jim Sargood, wearing a
plain skirt and tunic jacket pat-
terned in white, with scarlet buttons
attached to the cuffs of the short
sleeves. Mrs. Eric Mcllwraith’s black
coat had Oriental furbishings in
green, red and purplish-blue, repeated
exactly in the rainbow across the crown
of her felt hat. The Jim Fairbairns hur-
ried away before the last race, Mrs.
Fairbairn’s optimistic protection from
the weather being a black frock over
which scrambled ice-blue roses. Piping
up hopefully of next spring were butter-
cups and daisies in a gay yellow half-
moon round the front of Mrs. Fred
Gilder’s navy hat. Mrs. Geoff Grim-
wade’s all-mustard turnout was another
cheery note in the mist-strewn landscape.
A Ronald Esler camera here portrays
Anne McAuley, who has recently become
engaged to Jim Sutherland. Anne and
Jim have been pals for years since the
days when Anne was known among her
friends —and the nickname still sticks—
as Nipper. The hunting season starts in
a few weeks, which is good news for this
couple, who love the sport even more
than the races. Last year the season for
Anne was cut short when on horseback
she was kicked in the knee by a friend’s
frolicsome mount.
Members of the Wallace Mitchell
family who watched the race from the
finishing post reacted in various ways to
Marauder’s win in the Australian Cup.
Mrs. Mitchell took off her hat to dab
a hankie upon a damp forehead. Betty
in the top stand gave a war whoop or
two, and Jean wept copiously, all for
joy. As part of the large profits to
father on his double, Ajax-Marauder, his
two daughters and six sons get £5OO each
for their bank accounts.
If the horse hadn’t won the family
were off to Frankston for a late-afternoon
swim. The dinner party and flow of
champagne, a proviso of the win, the
Hotel Australia started to prepare as soon
as the result of the race was known. A
decorative banner with a horse’s head
and “Congratulations, Marauder,” was a
timely prop at hand to hang up over
the balcony. Afterwards guests went on
to the Spider Web for dancing, but the
host and hostess slipped away round
about 2 a.m., so quietly that no one had
the opportunity of saying “Thank you
for a lovely time.”
Those who suspected the weather of
turning dog on .them brought umbrellas
and waterproofs to the Australian Cup,
hoping that such a cautious move would
keep the rain away as surely as a wet
forecast does the same trick. The idea
turned out trumps, and the only moisture
seen or felt was upon fevered brows.
Among the many black frocks was Mrs.
Douglas Graham’s, slimly fitting, with
twists of royal-blue wool cord around
the throat. Mrs. Tom Guest, also in
black, and Mrs. Bryan Page, wearing an
oranges-and-lemons coat over white, were
among the many who carried glasses of
something cold and quenching out of
the scrimmage of the buffet to the com-
parative calm of the terrace. Betty
Crozier had been far and wide for her
ideas —a hat from Texas, a belt from
Mexico and the peasant weave of her
oatmeal-colored frock from (perhaps)
Albania. For its smartness, Mrs. Stewie
Hancock’s natural-colored suit was in-
debted to brown oddments of tassels and
stitchery. Mrs. Bruce Mead was all in
black, small hat with anchorage ban-
deau round the back of the head, and
black coat with tiny four-leafed clovers
for buttons running races down the front
panels.
The Eve Ray photograph is of Valerie
Palmer, of Dalvui, Terang, who, with
Lorraine Cumming, of Camperdown, is
leaving in the Orontes to have a look
at the other side of the world. The
prospective travellers have had a busy
week at the races, the polo, saying good-
bye to Western District and other friends
and accepting invitations for final flutters
with cocktails and to luncheons, dinners,
teas and dances.
There is always at least one good day
for the polo in every season, but this
year the weather outdid itself, present-
ing players, ponies and spectators with
three perfect days, the first warm, the
second coolish, the third warm again,
with not enough wind to upend big hats.
On the first afternoon, under a tradi-
tionally hot sun, those who came to
watch took off their coats, if any, put
on their largest and darkest protective
glasses and were unanimously compla-
cent about the ice containers in their
picnic hampers. In the unpretentious
grandstand sat a bunch of notables, who
assured their hosts that they were just as
happy with chairs on the grass and a
piece of shade cast by the galvanised-iron
roof as they’d have been in a luxury stand
with a scarlet-coated waiter always within
hovering distance. In these seats of
honor were Lord and Lady Gowrie, Lord
and Lady Huntingfield, Colonel and
Lady Janet Bailey and Curtis Skene, who
is proud that his own polo record has
been eclipsed by his son Bob, recently
ranked as the world’s No. 5 polo player.
Although Caramut defeated Melbourne
Hunt A by 13 goals for the Huntingfield
Cup, played from scratch, the vanquished
team got their ears back and fought
gamely all the way.
There was never a chance that the
Caramut men would not keep their flag
flying On the second day the victorious
Charlie Kelly, Jack de Little, J. E. F.
Mann and A. K. Urquhart annihilated
Melbourne Hunt B in the Stradbroke
competition with 22 goals against the de-
feated team’s solitary orphan, hit by
Colonel Pott to an ear-splitting clamor
of motor-horns.
On the final day Caramut completed
its un-in vie lory against Hexham at the
fifth chukka, when the game was aban-
doned after Charlie’s Kelly’s collision
with the goal post. The lead was a run-
away one ; the Caramut men had hit 17
goals to the unimproved 11 given in the
handicapping to the young Hexham lads
R. Bryant, J. R. Allen, J. R. McDonald
and Neville Palmer. So Caramut got off
with all the silverware (except the prize
for the defeated teams, and was entitled
to the extra swig of champagne from
the depths of both targe vessels passed
round in customary fashion at the con-
clusion of the matches. Caramut won
the Stradbroke Cup for the first time in
1936, and can gaze on the Huntingfield
Cup for ever, having ridden away with
it three times in succession.
On the second day of the polo dress-
ing was mixed —summer frocks with or
without lightweight coats, a few tweed
suits and a number of hatless heads of
snail curls or page-boy bobs for the very
young. Emerald-green (of which we
expect to see a lot this winter) was chosen
for her hat and belt by Mrs. Horton
Browne, whose ensemble otherwise
matched her name. Mrs. lan Currie and
Mrs. Charlie Kelly were in parchment
linen tweed suits, Mrs. Jack Edgar mixed
navy and white and Mrs. Jack de Little
collected scarlet accessories for her blue
suit.
On the final afternoon all car allot-
ments were occupied, as were all seats
along the edge of the ground.. It was a
noiseless gathering; even voices were
quiet, and not a horn tooted until the end
of the last match. A very small number
of enthusiasts clung to the game with
both eyes and field-glasses, but any folk
who seethed with excitement did so in-
wardly without any sign of palpitating
pulses. Charlie Kelly’s accident caused
a questioning murmur, and a few inti-
mate friends were soon sprinting across
the field as if competing in the 440 yards.
The ambulance came out and did its job,
but the casualty was soon up and about
saying he was feeling fine and only had
grit in his eye.
Mrs. Rupert Downes presented her
usual sang-froid, though she must have
been warm in her grey flannel suit, its
accompaniment being canary-yellow
gloves. Daughter Valerie was also grey-
suited. Mrs. Campbell Chomley was in
navy and white. Mrs. Jim Paxton and
her white cap were noticed in the driving
seat of a car, a similar position further
down the line of traffic being occupied
by Catherine Neylon, whose navy skirt
had the complementary part of a figured
tunic, its predominating color of the
same bright red as Melbourne Hunt
Club’s shirts. Tom Guest was noticed
as a spectator, having ceded his record
for v topweight in equestrian sports to
Aubrey Gibson.
A very striking mother and daughter
were Mrs. Charles Armytage and Sheila,
both choosing green tailored frocks, Mrs.
Armytage’s of an olive tint and tall, slim
Sheila’s of a brighter emerald, allied with
scarlet upon cap and scarf. Faith Power,
in black-and-white speckles and red
belt, and Katie Weir, in green and
hiding behind dark glasses, followed the
game from something long and low in
sports cars. Betty Adams came out in
spots, navy strewn with white for the
skirt and the reverse aspect for swing-
back tunic. Among onlookers alert for
the points of ponies and horsemanship
were Mrs. J. O. Robertson and Ailsa.
Ailsa saw so much first-class polo in
India that she is something of a judge
of the technicalities of the game.
Among other parties of the week were
a dance at Darling-street given for their
daughter Valerie by the Alex. Sloane
couple, of Mulwala station, N.S.W.; a
dinner at Menzies given by the George
Armstrongs for Pamela; another dance
at No. 9, when guests were welcomed by
Mr. and Mrs. Clive Currie and daughter
Sheila, of Gala, Lismore. Susan Gullett's
party was at Orchard Cottage, where the
garden twinkled with glowworm lights
and the tingle of autumn in the air was
so mild that canvas spread over the ter-
race was an unnecessary precaution.


COMING TO ENGLAND?
STAY IN THE HEART OF LONDON.
Choose wisely ... the MAPLE TON ... in
the midst of theatreland and fashionable
shopping centres. 100 luxurious bedrooms,
each with bathroom and ’phone. Central
heating and every modern comfort. Favour-
able terms for Overseas visitors. Send for
full details.
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Bachflat, Lesquare, London.
Positions Vacant.
“ENGINEER.” —We have a vacancy on our
staff for a well-qualified mechanical engineer,
preferably with University and Works train-
ing.
Good prospects for suitable man. Apply by
letter only, giving full particulars of age, edu-
cation and previous experience. Address en-
velope
“Engineer,”
Nestle and Anglo-Swiss Condensed Milk Com-
pany (A’sia), Limited,
G.P.O. Box 161988, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY. LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EICHT
“Mundowie”: It is proposed that
Canberra should send native teachers to
travel among tribes which have had some
contact with whites, presumably to wean
them finally from barbarism. Two things
are likely to happen. If the teacher is not
kin to the tribes he is to teach, the Gov-
ernment might just as well send a Hakka
Chinaman or a Filipino dancing girl. The
tribes will receive the stranger politely,
feed him on the best they have and,
when he has gone, invent a brand-new
corroboree in which he will achieve im-
mortality through his peculiar methods
of putting on his pants and his dainty
ways with kangaroo entrails. Nothing
more will come of it. But if he is of the
same people, it will not be long before
the Government misses a teacher. Hav-
ing sent a search party and followed the
local smoke-fires and “lu-luings” far into
the sandstone, they will find him naked,
unashamed, sitting in the ashes with a
new lubra and thoroughly enjoying his
reversion to nature.
* * * *
“X.T.”: When we Darwinians sur-
veyed the world at Christmastime and
perceived what a kindly Administration
had done for us during the year, we
felt that life must be very nearly com-
plete. From motor-driving to the shorts
which Administration girls had begun to
affect everything had been looked over
and brought under Regulation XYZ, ex-
cept alien shell poachers. It remained for
the arrival of the Chinese New Year to
show us that something had been for-
gotten. For 50 years the Darwin Oriental
has made his New Year’s Day an event.
A few years ago the celebration used to
be one of the sights. of Australia, and,
though the good old days are over, it
remained something of a celebration —
until this year, when the edict went forth
that there must be no fireworks. Pre-
sumably the explosions might wake a
civil servant somewhere.
* * * *
“Mataranka 1 ’: Part of a combatant’s
account of a minor war in Darwin:
“Complainant said ‘l’ve a good mind to
crack you one.’ I said ‘Oh, yeah?’ He
then called me a blanky police pimp, which
I considered a big insult. He said ‘You
blank, blank, blank, I’ll knock you cold.’
He drew back his fist to knock me cold,
-so I shot out my left and dropped him
He’s twice my size.”
And after that a magistrate proceeded
to prove that civilisation has come to
Darwin, remarking that, if the defendant’s
story were true, his victim got all that
was coming to him; “But,” he added,
“you should not have lowered yourself
to the level of scum and struck him.
You should have sought protection from
the police who were near by.” That,
of course, has always been a habit with
Australian gentlemen when people twice
their size are observed drawing back
their fists to knock the victim cold.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: King Canute and
Mrs.. Partington have both come down
in history on account of having failed
bravely in their respective attempts to
control matters at the seashore, but
(neither of them has anything on the beach
inspector of the Nerang (Q.) Shire Coun-
cil. Instructed by his employers that no
trunk-wearing bather should longer be
permitted to disfigure and demoralise its
beaches, he went heroically forth to en-
force the cause of sartorial wowserism,
single-handed. It was no fault of his that
he failed. There were hundreds of the
malefactors, and they wouldn’t even
take him seriously. They linked hands
and did joyous dances round him, im-
plored him to get out of those hot
clothes and be happy, formed a body-
guard and repeated his orders and pro-
testations in thunderous chorus to other
grinning sinners, and were completely
disrespectful to the cause of mid-Vic-
torian morals. He has reported to the
council that he will need strong rein-
forcement to carry out its wishes. Report
received.
“Tropik”: Once again North Queens-
land has been cut off by rail from the
south. It happens every year with mono-
tonous regularity. If the Burdekin and
the Mulgrave behave themselves and stay
beneath the rails, there are sure to be
half a dozen others running a banker.
The local press gives an annual cry of
anguish, but that is as far as it goes. As
soon as the rains subside the trouble is
forgotten until next year—except by those
passengers who found themselves
stranded and the business houses and
civilians who suffered the inconvenience
of late mails. Perhaps in another 100
years the Railway Department may deign
to build high-level bridges right through
“Quick, Ma, ’ere comes the inspector. Shove ’Lijah under the seat."
from Brisbane to Cairns; but then again
it may not.
* * * *
“Qwert Quiop”: Our vastly expensive
Department of Posts and Telegraphs is
in the habit of uttering loud whoops of
self-praise concerning the success of its
telephone services. Really its business
methods are childish. In the Brisbane
street-block where I live are 38 houses.
A tobacconist’s shop has the only tele-
phone, for racing news and to attract
custom. Telephone lines pass every
house. If the rent were dropped to £1 p.a.
I would instal one at once. So would 22
other residents of the block to whom I
have spoken on the subject. All agreed
that call costs were fair enough, but that
the rent rate was too hot on top of calls.
Yet the lordly department chucks away
a sure extra income from rents alone,
not to speak of extra call-fees. The same
silly loss applies on an immensely larger
scale to Sydney and Melbourne—not to
speak of elsewhere.
* * * *
“Western”: In write-ups connected
with the N.S.W. sesqui. celebrations
small-boat navigators Bass and Flinders
and Bligh have received considerable
mention; here’s a voyage, long lost in
the mists of the casually-happened, that
matches the best of them. In 1865 seven
S.A. surveyors found themselves stranded
at Adam Bay, east of Darwin and the
then proposed terminal of the O.T. line.
Anxious to get home, they fitted out the
only craft available, a 24ft. cutter, which
they named the Forlorn Hope. Sailing
on May 7 they made first for Camden
Bay in the W.A. nor’-west, a kick-off of
about 600 miles. They found the settle-
ment abandoned. Roebuck Bay, now
Broome, was the next promise. But a
willy-willy intervened, and the seafarers
passed by 200 miles out on the Indian
Ocean. Blown far south, they pushed
on to Geraldton, reaching it after a
voyage of 83 days. On the last
leg from Camden Bay they were
50 days without making a landing. So
crammed was the tiny craft with
water-tanks and food that mostly they
slept where they sat. Geraldton
offered no ship to Adelaide, so the ad-
venturers decided to push on to Fre-
mantle, and completed a journey of quite
2500 miles. Concerning their hardships
they were silent, but short rations was
the rule most of the way. A full account
is no doubt entombed in the records of
the S.A. Surveys Department.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Betty Loxton, of Heather, Bollon, is
engaged to L. Moody, of Binda station,
and is holidaying in Brisbane with her
mother, Mrs. C. D. Loxton.
Another engagement from the Bollon
district is that of Darby Smith, of Yun-
nerman, who is to marry Rita Loch.
Back in Brisbane after six months in
the U.S.A., P. J. O’Shea and sister Ella.
They visited most of the famous race-
tracks, were entertained lavishly at coun-
try clubs and in private homes, and had
a wonderful time. American women,
Miss O’Shea says, are wearing their skirts
14 inches from the ground, a mode which
ladies of tonnage should avoid, though
it is all very well for sisters built on
greyhound lines.
Betty McDonald, only daughter of the
J. A. McDonalds, of Longreach, had a
packed church to wish her luck when she
married, in her home town, Robert Bruce
Reid, of Arrolla, Cloncurry, son of Mr.
and Mrs. R. Reid, of Geelong (Vic.).
Ida and Lucy Rule, in hyacinth-blue and
carrying deep-red roses, were an attrac-
tive pair of ’maids. Bridal garment was
of white chiffon. Honeymoon is being
spent motoring to Melbourne and Adel-
aide.
Bob Willcocks, of Strathfenella, just
back from England and the U.S.A., spent
a lot of time studying conditions affect-
ing the wool market overseas, and blames
central heating rather than wool substi-
tutes for the decreased demand for Aus-
tralian wool. People who live in heated
homes, work in heated offices and travel
in heated trains and buses don’t need
woollen garments.
St. John’s Cathedral heard the Voice
breathe for John Macarthur Cameron
and Sylvia Anne Johns, and Archdeacon
Stevenson tied the
knot. The bride wore
a white Empire gown
and wreath and veil.
Thelma Johns and
Beverley McNeven
’maided in Grecian
frocks of a delicate
shade of blue.
Paddy Bergin and
Scott McLeod Walker,
married at St. Ig-
natius Church, Too-
wong, had friends
from all over Queens-
land as well as from
the South to wish
them luck. Bride is
the daughter of Mrs.
J. F. Bergin, and
Scott Walker is the
son of the late Percy
Walker and Mrs.
Walker, of Glenlyon.
Bishop Dixon was
the celebrant at the
wedding of R e g,
eldest son of Mr. and
Mrs. Alfred Bright,
of Sorrento and East
Melbourne, with
Beatrice, daughter of
the late T. Behan and
of Mrs. Behan, of
Bilbah Downs, Black-
all. F. W. de Little
gave away the bride,
who was all in white,
with two white-clad
bridesmaids, Joyce
Hay and Muriel Reid.
After a reception at
the Gresham Hotel,
bride and ’groom left
for Melbourne by
car.
Dorothy Bick and Stanley Jackson,
after their wedding at the Albert-street
Methodist Church, started off on a tour
of the southern States in a motor caravan.
Bride is the younger daughter of A. J.
Bick, Curator of the Brisbane Botanical
Gardens, and Mrs. Bick, and ’groom is
the son of Mr. and Mrs. T. L. Jackson,
St. Clair, Dalby. Dulcie Bick and Leslie
Jackson ’maided.
Andy Carrodus, president of the
Queensland Game Fishing Association,
had the honor of catching the first marlin
to be gaffed in Queensland waters dur-
ing the 150th Anniversary game-fishing
competition—a black marlin, weighing
2091 b., gaffed six miles off Point Look-
out. The fish fought for an hour and a
quarter before it was brought to the
side.


T^ama
EAL holiday
Plan your Easter
tour now!
To ensure choice of berths on
interstate and overseas liners book
your Easter tour with the Tas-
manian Govt. Tourist Bureau early.
Inclusive cost covers your holiday
from port of embarkation and
return. Take advantage, too, of
FAMOUS
COLOUR-LINE TOURS
See Tasmania under sunny Autumn
skies to the best advantage. Call
or write now for details of sailings
and booklet of Colour-line tours to
suit your holiday period.
TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAUX
SYDNEY: 4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.O.
MELBOURNE: The Block, Collins Street
ADELAIDE ----- 12 Pirie Street
PERTH: A.M.P. Bldg., William Street
BRISBANE - - - - 196 Adelaide Street
HOBART ------ Macquarie Street
Get a bottle of
WICKERS
V GIN^
mmm
KS ■
H
m
m
V 'V
* v - I
4».%’ : '0
• sSws. 'A
; %
\’ m m
i-, m
It's invigorating, has a deli-
cious flavour. (Quantities
given are for two people)
Take one cocktail glass
Vickers Gin, one-half table-
spoon Powdered Sugar, one-
quarter cocktail glass Lemon
Juice. Shake well and
strain into a long tumbler.
Add a lump of ice and fill
up with soda water.
that is a Vickers
CORIO QUENCH
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Friday .
Personal and Missing Friends.
LARCOMBE.—If RICHARD GARNALD
WESLEY LARCOMBE, son of Richard Lar-
combe, late of Echuca, will communicate with
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY, 472
Bourke Street, Melbourne, he will hear some-
thing to his distinct advantage. He was last
heard of in 1931 in the district of Gilgandra,
New South Wales.
FORBES.—MISS ELSIE LINDA (daughter of
Mrs. Rose Alice Forbes, of 201 Victoria Parade,
Fitzroy, Victoria, who died on the 28th June,
1936 —sometimes known as Mrs. Rose Hughes).
Please communicate with THE TRUSTEES,
EXECUTORS & AGENCY COMPANY, LTD.,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2015 of 1937.
BETWEEN EDITH LILIAN McMANUS Peti-
tioner
And TERENCE EDWARD McMANUS
Respondent.
TO TERENCE EDWARD McMANUS.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDITH
LILIAN McMANUS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Sixteenth
day of May one thousand nine hundred and
thirty-eight and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit will
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this 18th,day of February, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. E. BARKELL, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
WEAK MfN UNO WOM£N
Loss of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age
and weakness. dO
doses. Price 10/6.
Write to-day for par-
ticulars of this NEW
treatment.
81l
GLAND
TONIC
TABLETS
T. JONES eCO.il
319. Geopge Street.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide society flocked to St.
Michael’s, Clare, for the wedding of
Betty, second daughter of R. E. H. Hope,
of Wolta Wolta, Clare, to her English-
man, John Demetrius Ritchie. The
decorations in flame and yellow dahlias,
gladioli and pale-green foliage made an
effective setting. The bride was gowned
in magnolia chiffon velvet, cut on fitting
lines, the bodice shirred from the low-
cut neck to the waist, the sleeves long.
The train was shirred into a pannier effect
at the back. The Limerick bridal veil, worn
by brides in the Hope family for over a
century, was held in place by a coronet
of cream velvet leaves. Bridegroom wore
the full-dress uniform of a British artil-
lery regiment, and his sword was used
by the bride to cut the wedding cake.
There were four bridesmaids Mary
Hackett and Josephine Dawson in
golden-brown Liberty velvet, Jean Salter
and Anthea Weaver in dahlia-red velvet.
All wore close-fitting velvet caps to match
their frocks. The 9th Light Horse pro-
vided a guard of honor under Lieut.-Col.
Pascoe. A reception was held at Wolta
Wolta after the ceremony.
The entertaining of the commander of
the Italian cruiser, Captain Alberto da
Zara, and his officers was all in one day,
starting with a civic reception in the
morning at the Town Hall. Italian
Consul G. Amerio assisted to receive,
and with his wife introduced those of the
officers who could speak English to the
girls present.
Followed a luncheon at Parlia-
ment House, and then the captain and
officers of the Raimondo Montecuccoli
gave a late-afternoon party in their ship
at the Outer Harbor. There was no
dancing, but there were two buffets for
refreshments, one on deck and the other
in the officers’ smoking-room. The
Premier was among the guests, who were
received by the Italian Consul, the cap-
tain and Mrs. Amerio. Quite a Conti-
nental touch was the presentation of
flowers to the women guests. Two sailors
carried round huge silver salvers with
floral sprays of roses and carnations
from which the women selected posies to
match their frocks.
The engagement is announced of Mary,
only daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth
Steele, Glenelg, to George F. Ingersoll,
second son of Mr. and Mrs. R. Sturgis
Ingersoll, of Philadelphia (U.S.A.). Mary
met her fiance when on a trip to the
Orient with her mother.
Although the weather was wet, stormy
and wintry, there was a gay gathering at
Mount Lofty House, at Crafers, when
Mr. and Mrs. J W. Richardson gave a
large dance for their daughter Mimi and
their son Robert. The garden was hung
with colored lights, but it was too wet for
the guests to wander there. Dancing was
in one of the reception-rooms and on
the enclosed verandah, decorated with
zinnias and dahlias. The host and
hostess received with their son and
daughter.
A polo wedding was celebrated at St.
Peter’s College chapel, the parties being
Enid, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H. G.
Lillecrapp, of Eden Valley, and Colin,
son of Mrs. J. P. Heggie, of Angaston,
and the late Mr. Heggie. The bride-
groom is a member of the Mount Craw-
ford polo team, and the bride plays for
the South Australian women’s polo team.
The bride’s magnolia satin was self-
patterned, the panelled skirt merged into
a train and the bodice finished with a
Medici collar. Her tulle bridal veil was
worn over the halo, and she carried a
sheaf of white gladioli and gerberas.
Bridesmaids Phyllis Lillecrapp (sister of
the bride), Edna Padman and Margaret
Heggie (sister of the bridegroom) wore
v/hite ninon patterned in pale pink and
silver, the fitting skirt having a slight
train and the bodice made with cape
effect. Their ice-blue tulle veils were
held in place by haloes of silver leaves.
WESTRALIA.
Nor’-westers were in evidence at
Beryl Kopke’s wedding to Leslie Sel-
lenger, of Fremantle, as Beryl is the only
daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs.
F. A. H. Kopke, of Yaringa station, Car-
narvon. Canon Henn tied the knot, and
Mrs. Henn lent her South Perth borne
for the health-drinking afterwards,
where their elder lass, Mary, now Mrs.
Alan Kopke, helped in the hostessing.
Deep-cream ivory satin shimmered in
classic folds round the bridal figure, and
a coronet of diamente leaves glistened
above filmy tulle veilings. Muriel Horne
’maided in picture frockings of flower-
scrolled white organza, with bouffant
skirt, puffed sleeves and frilly bertha all
in keeping. Her o.s. headgear was of
fine white straw swathed with tulle.
For the Lauri-Dorothy Kennedy con-
cert at the Assembly Hall, Dorothy Ken-
nedy’s lame frock, figured with silver
palm leaves, gleamed in the subdued set-
ting of the lamp-lit stage, where a huge
brass bowl of massed dahlias provided
the only splash of color. In the audi-
ence, conductor E. J. Roberts had wife
in tow, trailing diaphanous pink chiffon
full-length coat over her floral ninon
frock, and Mus. Bac. A. J. Leckie es-
corted daughter Mrs. Harley Morrison,
looking cool in tucked white georgettes.
Mrs. Cecil Mason draped a lame top
over black satin skirt, Mrs. Rosenberg's
blouse was of pearl-grey satin, and
fiddler Margaret Sharpe set a deep-
cream lace bertha above her bouffant
woodland brown taffetas.
Visiting the Jack Morrison couple, her
daughter and son-in-law, is Mrs. Basil
Murray, who has forsaken Perth for
Melbourne during the last few years.
Son Tony’s studies at Melb. Uni. pro-
vide the reason. A round of parties to
welcome her began with bridge at Mrs.
Charlie Kendall’s Mount-street flat, which
is part of Mrs. Murray’s old home.
Mrs. Roy Mitchell ensconced her guests
in a setting of roses and hydrangeas
when she presided at a tea-drinking, and
Mrs. H. J. Gray set up mah-jongg and
bridge tables in honor of the same guest.
Owing to the temperamental behavior
of the m.v. Gorgon’s internal workings,
intending passengers Tor Singapore were
delayed for several days. Mrs. Vincent
Nolan had time for extra farewells with
offspring at boarding-school before re-
turning to husband and home in Penang.
After rounds of parties Doris and Molly
Walsh, of St. George’s Terrace, packed
trunks for a Singapore holiday, and
skipper Ward-Hughes has reserved the
seat on his right for daughter Nancy,
who is off to stay with friends in
Malaya.
As a finale to Country Week cricket,
the Nor’-west and Murchison team,
which carried off the premiership of the
“B” section, issued invitations for a
moonlight river cruise. The Emerald
was chartered complete with illumina-
tions, and dancing on the top deck was
interspersed with presentations of
trophies won during the week. G. W.
Miles, M.L.C., and Mfs. Miles did the
honors as guests came aboard, and
A. L. B. Lefroy, Pastoralists’ Association
president, made the presentations.
Yet another Perth lass has been
snapped up by a t’othersider. P. C.
Anderson, Scotch College’s head, will
hand over daughter Vans to Norman
Wilson, of Melbourne, some time this
year. Vans is holidaying with future in-
laws at the moment.
Another exchange-of-vows-to-be is that
of the eldest member of the Sydney
Atkinsons’ trio of girls, Una, and Colin
Rowley, of Wagin, only son of Mrs. B.
Rowley, of Mosman Bay.
The full-length play competition con-
ducted by the N. S. Wales Sesqui. Cele-
brations Committee was won by Mrs.
Henrietta Drake-Brockman, of Perth,
with “Men Without Wives.” She is a
daughter of the late M. E. and Dr.
Roberta Jull, and married Major Geof-
frey Drake-Brockman, W.A. Govern-
ment Commissioner for the North-west.
Mrs. Drake-Brockman’s novels Blue
North and Men Among Pearls were first
published as serials in The Bulletin.
The second was renamed Sheba Lane for
book publication.
TASMANIA.
Government House and its grounds
were looking their best on the day of
the garden party given by the Governor
and Lady Clark in honor of Lord and
Lady Gowrie. The huge throng was
able to disperse all over the grounds, so
that at no time was there a crush. Lady
Gowrie wore a navy-and-white sheer
frock and big picture hat, and later in
the afternoon added a fur wrap. Lady
Clark’s dress of brown lace was topped
by a brown Bangkok straw hat with
orange and brown feather mount. After
the party Lord and Lady Gowrie and
his Ex. and Lady Clark motored to
Tarraleah, where Lord Gowrie opened
the first section of the great Tarraleah
hydro-electric undertaking.
The Consul-General for France, M. de
Tremoulet, and Commandant J. C.
Plante gave a sherry party in the Rigault
de Genouilly. Guests included the Pre-
mier and Mrs. Ogilvie, Dr. and Mrs.
Goddard, Col. Durrant, Chief Sec. and
Mrs. D’Alton and many others.
The Royal Air Force Ball at the City
Hall was a gay affair, and about 900
dancers footed it. Propellers and other
illuminated flying emblems figured among
the decorations. The Governor and Lady
Clark were received by president and
Mrs. Broun. Lady Gowrie accompanied
the v.-r. party wearing a green gown and
a diamond-and-pearl tiara. JLady Clark
was in fine black lace. Six debs, were
presented by Mrs. Eric Bowden Hazel
Bayles, Joan Bennison, Patricia King,
Mary Moore, Joan Peck and Esme Reid.
Princess Melikoff looked striking in black,
Rear-Admiral and Mrs. Lane-Poole and
the commanding officers of the warships
in port were present.
The Matrons’ Ball, a relic from the
days when too large private dances were
standing dishes in every Hobart season,
was a beautifully run affair. It was held
at the Continental, and about 400 guests
enjoyed it. Decorations were entirely
floral. Twenty matrons (town and coun-
try) were on the committee, with Evelyn
Butler as hon. sec. Seven debs, looked
like a little flock of pigeons in their
white frocks. They were Mary and
Dorothy Radcliff, Barbara Steele, Deidre
Giblin, Diane Ensor, Mary Harris and
Mary Crozier. Lady Clark came on
after the dinner party at Government
House, and the Rear-Admiral and
numerous officers from the Australian
Squadron and visiting foreign warships
made plenty of partners for the dancing
girls.
The high spot in recent northern social
doings was the Gatenby-Page wedding at
the Church Grammar School chapfel.
Ann, eldest daughter of Mrs. Keith
Brodribb and the late O. A. Page, is one
of the most popular of the Speck’s pretty
girls, and Roy Gatenby is the only son
of the Norman Gatenbys, Cressy House,
Cressy. Pink and blue was the color
scheme for decoration, and the bride’s
dress of white chiffon was brocaded in
silver. The bodice was tightly moulded,
sleeves short, and the white tulle veil
fell from a cluster of tuberoses on the
head to the hem of the long court train.
Six ’maids followed—the bride’s two
stepsisters, Prudence and Margaret Brod-
ribb, Katherine Macleod, Nan Mac-
kinnon, Pat Gatenby and Ardyn Smith.
They wore tulle frocks in very pale pink,
with waistbands of deepish-blue velvet,
and their large leghorn hats had bands
of the same shade of velvet ribbon and
were tied under the chin with a delightful
old-style effect. Their frocks were very
full, and they carried bouquets of del-
phiniums and pale-pink roses. About
200 guests gathered at the Brisbane after-
wards, and in the evening, later, the
P. B. Grubbs wound up the fun with a
dance at Strathroy.


“KING
ROAD
OF
THE
BATTER
1
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—*a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
“You want a good yield
but—Y O U C A N’T
AFFORD TO RISK
YOUR CAPITAL.”
<-
t
I always recommend clients with
large funds to spread them over as
wide a range of enterprises as pos-
sible. This is difficult for people
like you with only £22, or a few
hundred pounds at the most. How-
ever,
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
will solve your problem as it has
done that of other small investors.
It gives you an interest in 20 lead-
ing Australian companies and your
funds are protected by Custodian
Trustees,
Union Insurance Society of Canton,
Ltd.
Free Booklet No. 1 is yours on
request to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS
PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
The Long White Cloud
“Goss”: That flood at Kopuawhara,
besides causing the loss of 21 lives, did
£50,000 worth of damage to the railway
on which the men were engaged, and
work on the line will be set back at least
three months. The oldest Maoris in the
Gisborne district can remember nothing
like the flood, and proof that it’s the
biggest for 68 years at least is given by
the fact that native fortifications which
had been used as defences against Te
Kooti, and which had stood untouched
since 1870 on the hillside where the camp
was located, were silted up by the flood-
waters. The river washed away a bridge
which had three steel and concrete spans,
each weighing 50 tons, and another
bridge which had stood for 25 years.
* sS * *
“R. Wort”: February may bring the
storms to Maoriland (B. 2/3/’3B), but
blame the destruction of the forests for
the floods. In the 1936 floods, for in-
stance, Taranaki, which is drained by
dozens of rivers and streams, suffered tre-
mendous damage that would never have
occurred if the water-holding bush had
not been cleared from the upper reaches
by Mount Egmont. Though I don’t
know if it applies to Kopuawhara, where
the latest tragedy occurred, destruction
of forests in high backblocks country
was often useless as well as dan-
gerous, because the land was
never fit for farming. Landslides
on the East Coast and the
bracken growing over the aban-
doned slopes above the Awakino
River tell the story of waste.
M.L. is trying to replace the
bush, but divided control —the
State Forest Service, the Lands
Department and the Internal
Affairs Department all have a
finger in the pie—is hampering
the work. Fires which efficient
supervision might have prevented did
great damage this year at Taupo and in
the Tararuas, and the Waipoua State
Forest, with its magnificent kauris, had a
narrow escape.
* * * *
“Ikwi”: “Kiwit’s” prophecy that the
iron deposits at Onekaka might be the
scene of another national development
scheme looks like coming true. Labor
has introduced an Iron and Steel In-
dustry Bill making the industry a com-
plete State monopoly, and revoking min-
ing rights held by Onekaka Iron and Steel.
Industries Minister D. G. Sullivan says
the State enterprise will provide work
#or 1200 men. Production is being
planned on M.L.’s requirements for sheet,
bar and wire products, and about 85,000
tons of finished steel is reckoned on
for the first year. Haven’t seen any ref-
erence yet to plans for developing Tara-
naki’s ironsand, but if the Government
sets up a plant with the process that has
recently been tried successfully overseas
the unemployment figures should drop
again.
“Mac Hoots”: Labor’s superannuation
and health-insurance scheme, which was
to be the feature of the new session, has
been shelved, Mr. Savage having come
to the conclusion that the matter needs
investigation by a Parliamentary com-
mittee. Since the scheme was an election
promise, the Government should have
had plenty of time to think about it, and
in any case the possibilities were ex-
plored by a departmental committee in
1935 under Coates-Forbes. This is an
election year, and Labor, already in hot
water for failing to reduce taxation,
would hardly like to ask the taxpayer to
dip deeply into his pocket just now.
* # * *
“Tham”: Those who like to attribute
longevity to vegetarianism, to hiking or the
use of dumb-bells will find in Maoriland
that entering the meenistry is as good a
“But, ma, this is a later model than yours ”
specific as any. The death of the Rev.
Alexander Grieg in his 100th year at
Dunedin inspired a statistician to dis-
cover that the Presbyterians have nine
ministers over 80 years of age. The
winner is the Rev. W. Hain, who still
adorns the pulpit at 94. C. of E. has
the Rev. Robert Young, retired at the
same age, and Archbishop Julius, who is
90. The Rev. Thomas Fee, at 87, holds
up the banner for the Methodists.
* * * *
“Dhas”: Maoriland architects can be
added to the list of those who ignore the
native culture. Not that it’s suggested
that bungalows should be replaced by
raupo huts, or public buildings by the
long, low meeting-houses with their
ancestral fleas and totems, but, as C. W.
Wood pointed out in a presidential
address to the Institute of Architects,
Maori art used as ornament would be
both attractive and distinctive. The
earthquake menace is forcing M.L. archi-
tecture into a severe economy of line,
and scrollwork of Maori design to re-
lieve the monotony would certainly be
preferable to incongruous gargoyles that
jut, like rabbits popping from their bur-
rows, from pink stone.
£ $ * *
“Dhas”: Sunday Island is paradise for
the simple-lifer, according to Alfred
Bacon, whom the Maui Pomare recently
brought home to M.L. for a business
visit. Bacon first settled on the little surf-
beaten island 48 years ago, but came
back to the mainland to rear a family,
and just two years ago finally returned
to the goats, grapes, kumaras and turtles
of the island. Now that five dissatisfied
settlers have returned to M.L., there is
not even a mosquito to worry him. But
if there’s no income tax, there’s also no
tea, and it must be a whale of a distance
to any place where there’s anything
except the sea with foam on the top of it.
* * * *
“S.A.D.”: Von Luckner isn’t the only
German war-prisoner at present visiting
Maoriland. Over from Fiji for the
Catholic centenary celebrations is Father
Bernard Wobken, who saw service in
the Imperial Guards against the Austra-
lians at Paschendaele and Ypres before
being taken prisoner by the Canadians
at Langemarck. Like his raider com-
patriot, he found prison dull and, when
he was still held after the war finished,
made a break for Holland. His escape
started with a 36-hour hibernation under
a floor, and ended abruptly when he
walked into a Chinese working camp.
He joined the priesthood after the war,
and learnt his English at St. Pat.’s Col-
lege, Wellington.
* * * *
“M’Lud”: M.L.’s Chief Justice Myers
has made legal history in more important
matters than horses (B. 2/3/’3B). The
recent session of the Supreme Court at
New Plymouth brought him into the
headlines when the grand jury, at his
suggestion, recommended that M.L.
should adopt an Infanticide Act on the
lines of the English Act, which provides
that, where a woman causes the death of
her newly-born child and at the time of
the murder the balance of her mind is
disturbed by the effects of giving birth
to the child, she is guilty of a special class
of felony. The recommendation arose
from a case where a young woman,
against whom infanticide was alleged,
was charged with murder.
* * * *
“Koura”: Like the State houses in
Melbourne (B. 2/3/’3B), the houses
erected by the Labor Government in
M.L. were let at an “economic rent”
which put them beyond the reach of the
workers for whom they were intended.
It was the Government’s own forcing up
of wages and prices which increased the
cost of the dwellings and necessitated the
high rents. Having tried out building
houses itself, the Government is about
to revert to the old system of advancing
loans from the State Advances Corpora-
tion for homes, and Mr. Nash is ex-
pected to announce details of a big plan
on those lines when Parliament re„r
assembles. The corporation has been
lending at 4| per cent., and there’s a pos-
sibility that still cheaper money will be
available.
* * * *
“Dhas”: A historical work on which
T. Lindsay Buick was engaged at the
time of his death (B. 2/3/’3B) was a life
of Baron de Thierry, who by setting up
an independent kingdom in north Auck-
land provided one of the brightest chap-
ters of M.L.’s early days. A rather
hollow sort of book about him by Robin
Hyde (Check to Your King ) hinted at
scandalous land transactions by certain
of the missionaries, and Buick’s book,
which is believed to be nearly enough
finished to be published, should, if he
had ferreted out the full story, be ex-
tremely interesting.
sf * * *
“Stoo”: With Lord Nuffield about,
philanthropy’s in the air, and a very
pleasant cloudburst of it has descended
on M.L. in the shape of £lO,OOO for
poor boys in Wellington and Christ-
church from J. R. McKenzie, who first
saw the sun at Yarrawalla, Vic. He was
in business in Melbourne and Hobart
before settling in M.L., and now, in the
intervals of directing a chain of depart-
ment stores, watches his trotters’ successes.
Rotary clubs are to administer the fund.
* * * *
“Timepleese”: Judging from recent
political pronouncements N. S. Wales
liquor laws are not likely to be altered
without a referendum, and fn M.L.,
though in the early days of the Labor
regime there were some mutterings led
by Mr. Parry, who realised that the
present regulations are irritating to his
tourists, to say nothing of those who
merely live in the country, reform seems
equally remote. Just how great is the
need for a review of the whole position
is indicated by the 400 pages of magis-
trate J. H. Luxford’s Liquor Laws of
New Zealand. Judge Ostler in a fore-
word says delicately that the law is in a
“somewhat chaotic” state, and the pre-
face says the regulations consist of clip-
pings from the liquor laws of every part
of the Empire.


HOTSPOTS FROM HISTORY
THE REAL REASON
WHY SHEBA j|
VISITED SOLOMON^
Jr* -V'
\{ft
-AT
A
Sa °^oC
// 0
IVORCt
APERS I
SHE WANTED
TO HEAR
OMEOfTUE
AUDIOSCOPIC
SOLD ONLY BY PHILIPS
ACCREDITED RETAILERS
Fill in this coupon and post to
PHILIPS RADIO. SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE.
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE. BRISBANE or PERTH
Please arrange free demonstration of
a Philips Radioplayer.
Name
Address
'ALSOSENDB-PACESTATioNBOOk
For Radio Constructors.
A limited number of issues of “Aus-
tralian Radio News” (formerly published
by The Bulletin) is available at The
Bulletin Office.
1933 and 1934 issues contain a large
amount of useful short-wave and broad-
cast constructional articles.
Get a Sample Copy Now.
3d. each, including postage.
Business Going West!
Yes to 6AM
»
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a pull
in the country districts
of W.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
3
Somebody's got
Better Radio
Mow 1 .
Milliard
MASTER RADIO
Prices front £l2 / !f) / (i.
f
pgsiplispsi
siiiittiirtSf
«l|9
■Mi il
MOTORISTS!
The Set you’ve been looking for,
THE “CROYDEN”
Bakelite Universal Mantel Model.
Works off a car battery or off 240 volts A.C.
£lB/18/- Retail.
Particulars from
ECLIPSE RADIO PTY. f LTD.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Television Plans for Sydney.
When the Alexandra Palace station in
London settled into its stride it became
evident that television had passed from
the peepshow stage to something really
worth while. British television went
ahead so quickly and methodically that
it outclassed the Continental systems
and shook the U.S.A. into action. Some-
what parallel with the British system is
that of R.C.A., covering New York from
the summit of the Empire State build-
ing. Australian radio authorities return-
ing from overseas have said that tele-
vision is a certainty of the future, but at
least several years ahead for Australia.
But if the report of an interview between
a pressman and John L. Baird as he
boarded the Strathaird for Sydney can
be relied upon it seems that television
may be nearer than was anticipated.
Baird is Britain’s pioneer television
worker. The London television station
of to-day, although it now uses a rival
system, was the culmination of Baird’s
work. He is reported as stating that he
brings with him £20,000 worth of trans-
mission and reception equipment to start
the television bail rolling in Sydney, com-
mencing with a small station costing
somewhere around £lO,OOO. With that
under way, he intends to establish, with
the co-operation of radio and financial
interests, a £250,000 station.
In London regular television pro-
grammes are on the air, commercially-
manufactured television receivers are
selling well, and a vast army of television
home-constructors is busy following in-
structions in technical publications and
making up its own receiving equipment.
Reception ranges were originally esti-
mated at around 25 miles, by virtue of
the ordinary limitations of ultra-short
waves, but photographs are shown of
television pictures on the screens of
home-made receivers 70 to 90 miles from
London.
The question of a station for Sydney is
an important one. If a station is erected
in the heart of the city, half the radia-
tion will be wasted to the horizon limit
of the Pacific Ocean, and suburban
“viewers” will get the rest. It would be
confined strictly to Sydney and the imme-
diate surroundings. Examination of the
records of ultra-short-wave radio com-
munication by Sydney radio experi-
menters will show that a much greater
portion, embracing much of N.S.W. sur-
rounding Sydney, can be covered with
ease from suitable positions in the Blue
Mountains. Merely by sensible attention
to transmission and receiving aerials it is
possible to communicate from Mount
Victoria with Sydney, on a wave-length
of five metres with power as low as 25
watts, with an unfailing full-strength
signal. In these circumstances the signal
reaches Sydney with all the intensity of
a local broadcasting station.
But it is not a question of reaching
Sydney alone where television is con-
cerned. A television transmitter with a
10-kilowatt rating situated somewhere in
the mountains could, by means of cor-
rect aerial design, take in not only the
city of Sydney, but all the towns where
240 A.C. is available in a wide sweep
north, east and south. Parramatta, Liver-
pool, Windsor, Penrith, Campbelltown,
Camden and possibly Gosford and New-
castle would receive the signal strbngly
in addition to the whole of Sydney. That
is assuming that a station is placed this
side of Mount Victoria. If a duplicate
aerial system is arranged on the other
side, it should be possible to reach
western districts, such as Lithgow and
quite possibly Bathurst.
This is no idle conjecture; amateur
radio experimenters can demonstrate it
at any time. If television is to come to
Sydney, as it inevitably will some day,
this consideration should be borne in
mind.
D. B. K.
Efficient Earthing Systems.
A frequent cause of weak reception
is a poor earth-connection and excessive
hand-capacity where the receiver is of
the small experimental kind. Apart
from the need for using a good earth-
connection with the small receiver, it is
essential with the mains-operated re-
ceiver because of the regulations affect-
ing the installation of electrical equip-
ment.
There are various ways of obtaining
a good earth-connection, and, in the case
of a commercially-manufactured receiver,
the dealer doing the installation usually
makes sure of this important point.
Where, however, a receiver is of the
home-made experimental variety a few
tips regarding earthing will not go amiss.
In the first place, the earth lead should
be as short as possible to a good earthing-
point. Too many “earths” go trailing
around when, with a little more atten-
tion, a much shorter route could be
taken. The wire should be not less than
7/22, but a much heavier gauge of
stranded wire may be used with advan-
tage. Stranded wire is more flexible and
less likely to break than single wire.
Water Pipes.
A very efficient earthing-point, and
perhaps the simplest and easiest where
possible, is a water-pipe. The earth wire
should be connected at the point where
the pipe enters the ground. It is not
always possible to find a water-pipe situ-
ated just under the aerial lead-in, but
that is the ideal arrangement. If it
is known that there is a buried water-
pipe anywhere near, it is worth while
digging down to it to make the connec-
tion.
If possible, the earth lead should be
soldered directly to the pipe, but to do
this properly means cutting off the water
supply and draining the pipe. Water in
the pipe will conduct the heat away from
the soldering-point, making it almost im-
possible to do a good job. Next best
thing to soldering is to use an earthing
clip, obtainable at most radio stores.
Clean the pipe and the inside of the clip
with sandpaper and then screw the clip
on as tightly as possible. The earth wire
can either be soldered directly to the clip
or attached by means of the terminal
screw provided.
It is a good plan to wrap the whole
joint with adhesive insulating tape as a
deterrent to corrosion.
With iron pipes it may be necessary
to go to a little more trouble. The
screwed joints in iron pipes are usually
bad electrical connections, and joints
should, therefore, be short-circuited by
means of two earth clips and a piece of
wire. Better still, a wire strap can be
soldered across the joint. In no circum-
stances should gas-pipes be used for
earthing. They rarely run direct to earth,
and can be dangerous for obvious
reasons.
Earthing Plates.
If a suitable water-pipe is not avail-
able a metal earthing-plate may be used.
This can be of copper or galvanised-iron
two or three feet square, and buried at
least three feet deep in the ground as
near as possible to the receiver. If there
is a patch of damp ground or a creek
near by it may be worth while to make
the earth lead longer to take advantage
of improved conditions.
A shallow trench a few inches deep
can be cut to the moist ground, and bare
stranded wire run along to the earthing-
plate, which can be buried there. Con-
nection to the plate should be made by
riveting and soldering. Where the earth-
ing-plate is buried just outside the house,
it will help the conductivity of the earth
if a few pounds of rock salt is packed
around the plate and mixed with the
earth when filling in. Or a piece of
pipe may be left projecting above the
ground and ending in a heap of coke in
the centre of the plate. If the end of the
pipe entering the pieces of coke is per-
forated, water poured down the pipe will
greatly improve the earth connection in
dry weather. A quantity of salt dis-
solved in the water will further improve
matters.
Multiple Earth Connections.
If there is a suitable patch of ground
under the aerial an earth-mat can be
made up by burying several parallel
lengths of copper wire, joining them at
intervals of a few feet with cross-pieces of
wire with soldered joints. Although this
is a method applied mostly to transmit-
ting stations, it is also suitable for recep-
tion.
Another way of obtaining the desired
earth efficiency is to use a number of
earthing-plates, spreading them out under-
neath the aerial and connecting them to-
gether. These two suggestions apply
mainly to country listeners with ample
ground space available, and can hardly
be adopted in a suburban garden.
If the earth is to be of a temporary
nature a good system can be arranged
by driving several pieces of metal tubing
into the ground at intervals of a few
feet and soldering the earth wire to each
in turn. The projecting portions can,
after the wire is connected, be driven
beneath the surface of the ground and the
connecting wire laid in a cut made with a
spade If the ground is
r„ e p „; h^h hemecanbeu / dasa t pe "
A variation of this earthing system,
described by an English radio experi-
menter, is interesting. Materials neces-
sary are a crowbar and about 100 feet
of bare aerial wire. Several holes are
sunk with tb ® r S^ as f loop °of
sible and are P • of
V means of h a stick with
lllc “v. iy nnll „|. w : re beine left
a notch ’ JL . the °radio
loose to . , pushed
apparatus. P .• the
down into *e nextfK" 8 “j
P ro^f- ss . . , ‘ -v. holes are
»“ l and the connecting wir£
then filled “ done
buried ln . P j sntdered ioints
«* a few ntmuts, no soldered p.Ms
=»« necessary, one unbroken length ot
wire Dein § use •
Earth Screens.
Sometimes an earth screen (or countei-
poise) may be more convenient than a
direct earth. It consists of running a
carefully insulated wire, or wires, in
form of a second aerial, directly under
the aerial and about Bft. above ground
to clear obstacles. The counterpoise may
often be found useful in cutting out soiul
forms of electrical interference, and will
in most cases give greatly improve re
ception, particularly with small receivers,
it is no protection against electric shock,
and cannot in any circumstances e use
to earth electrical apparatus. A lec
earth somewhere about the place will
be necessary and the counterpoise should
be connected to this, together with the
aerial, when not in use. If the counter-
poise can be made up of a number of
P running „ e f under the aerialj
spaced » £, w feet ,so much
h h - to transmis-
. ’. receoti on
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
Calculated to boost ultra-short-wave
stock in this country is the announce-
ment that television pioneer Baird is not
only to visit the radio convention, but
will make a start with television for Syd-
ney. Two stations are planned, the first
of an experimental nature, and the sec-
ond similar to that at Alexandra Palace,
London.
Good as were the results obtained on
56mc. mobile days in Sydney three short
years ago, infinitely better performance
could be expected now that some home
stations can provide a better and stronger
signal for observation at distant points.
Transmitters are available at several sta-
tions in which the efficiency and per-
formance is equal to that on lower fre-
quencies. There would be no doubt
about hearing such stations at points
much further distant than in the tests
of three years back, and it is planned to


Z» ■*« s&
BM
W°
l«
Tic**'* -
$*
•N *l» MU. MCtrrlM
, u n
U 0 '°t' <3 ato
put
of « e '
\avQ' r,q Ve t° n S '«
.xf • r* **v* °- d
V‘ s xH® «vt»l° - .. cot* uoC '
r<: 5* -° tc
°* ' a . k i
C EU- * a *'*
t „w- at of W» ob '*'So SE^' C
tu°
MR . woub\e'f ea ; t «v\C\^ G '
A"
not* 0
fust
the
th>e^
v/hat
whet®
onvet"
you
„ of
ettce ot e< j
radio
ate
sitoav
A 8
EVEREADY
Air
Cell
• THE EVER READY CO. (AUST.) PTY., LTD., Sydney.
"RADIO DIGEST”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but “RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most important radio
publications.
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
from the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office. 252 George Street,
Sydney.
Nobody blames their shoe
when the sole wears through,
so why blame your radio
when the valves wear out —
just . . .
dfVALVE WlT H
radio valves
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (jjjjp (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ||| ELECTRIC)
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
& ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
get together in the near future a num-
ber of N.S.W. experimenters.
Those who have wailed for so long
about the absence of American ’phones
between 14,150 kc. and 14,250 kc. should
welcome the return of the organ-recital-
like din of hundreds of ’phone carriers,
but the cluttering-up of the band appals
the hardened DX man. All the more
The new 809 Radiotron, which is proving
so popular with VKs.
reason why the ultra-shorts deserve at-
tention. Too many stations are back-
fence yarning on 20 metres. This, and
duplexing locally, should be a future sub-
ject for world-wide regulation if com-
fortable DX working is to be preserved.
It has been noticed recently that Ws
are workable on C.W. in the early morn-
ings in eastern VK as late as 7 a.m.
South Africans can also be worked as
late as 6 a.m. W3AWH told the writer
that he is anxious for 80-metre QSOs
with VK. DX on that band is a reason-
able possibility for country stations but
quite an achievement in these times for
city-suburban stations, hampered by B.C.
harmonics and steel-building absorption.
There are almost 50,000 amateur sta-
tions in U.S.A., and it is probably just
as well they are never all on the air
together. Best time for Europe just now
on 20 metres seems to be around 3 a.m.
Sydney time, but although European
stations are easily heard they are by no
means so easy to attract for replies to
calls.
All is not well at Cairo. Japan has
never been enthusiastic about amateur
radio, and has now proposed washing
out the 160-metre band, reducing the 80-
and 40-metre bands to a mere 100 kilo-
cycles, reducing 20 metres to 200 kilo-
cycles, sharing these with fixed and
mobile services, and completely eliminat-
ing amateurs above 28 megacycles. It
is most unlikely that any country would
be successful in restricting amateur radio
so much as suggested in these proposals,
but the attempt is a glaring example of
what is likely to happen if amateur radio
is not organised.
VK2NO
A.W.A.'s Exhibition Display.
During the 1938 Radio Exhibition,
held in Sydney Town Hall, Amalgamated
Wireless had a comprehensive display of
the latest equipment for broadcast re-
ception and radio transmission. Radiola
models included the new “press to tune”
receivers. An aircraft transmitter and
receiver of the type now being installed
on all passenger ’planes to comply with
C.A.B. requirements showed sturdiness
combined with compactness and light-
ness. This equipment is capable of in-
stantaneous transmission on any of four
wave-lengths, 45, 116, 120 and 925 metres,
and the receiver operates on any of these
wave-lengths. A control panel is mani-
pulated by the pilot for wave-length
change of transmitter or receiver, also for
changing from speech to telegraphy. The
type of small transmitter and receiver
used by Sydney Central Ambulance was
available for inspection, and other com-
munication equipment included a stan-
dard marine transmitter as carried in
most Australian ships, an automatic dis-
tress transmitter for small vessels, and a
direction finder.
Empire Broadcasting
Service.
The following frequencies have been
notified for use by the Empire station at
Daventry:
Frequency, Wave-length,
Me. Metres.
GSA .. .. 6.05 49.59
GSB .. .. 9.51 31.55
GSC .. .. 9.58 31.32
GSD .. .. 11.75 25.53
GSE .. .. 11.86 25.29
GSF .. .. 15.14 19.82
GSG .. 17.79 16.86
GSH .. .. 21.47 13.97
GSI .. . . 15.26 19.66
GSJ .. .. 21.53 13.93
GSK .. .. 26.10 11.49
GSL .. .. 6.11 49.10
GSN .. .. 11.82 25.38
GSO .. .. 15.18 19.76
GSP .. .. 15.31 19.60
GST .. .. 21.55 13.92
Programme details are given in Green-
wich mean time. Time difference for
Australia is as follows:
Australia. Hours.
West .. + 8
South .. .. + 9|
Queensland .. .. .. .. +lO
New South Wales +lO
Victoria .. .. .. .. + 10
Tasmania .. +lO
What's What in Radio.
Among overseas delegates and guests
to the World Radio Convention to be
held in Sydney will be Australian-born
J. D. McGee, M.Sc., Ph.D., who is
attached to the Research Department of
E.M.I. McGee has been directly con-
nected with the development of the
Emitron camera, one of the main reasons
why 8.8. C. television is so outstanding.
Another visitor will be R. Milward
Ellis, vice-president of the Radio Manu-
facturers’ Association of Great Britain.
He is joint managing-director of Pye
Radio, one of Britain’s largest radio-
manufacturing organisations.
* * *
“Querex”: In central N.S.W. recently
I took the opportunity of looking at 2CR
and its 660 ft. vertical radiator. I was
told that on occasions the huge metal
structure can be heard distinctly “talk-
ing.” This reminds me of early broad-
casting days in London, when workmen
engaged on the erection of a building
close by the old 2LO station were
amazed to hear music coming from a
crane. As 2LO was in those days only
low-powered in comparison with modern-
day stations, it is evident that some queer
effects are likely to be encountered
where any metal structure is in the
immediate vicinity of a broadcaster.
Even with my owrf low-powered ama-
teur station, my voice is reproduced
clearly by the water-pipes in the laun-
dry when using telephony on frequen-
cies of 14mc. and higher.
"Radio Handbook" for 1938.
This year’s Radio Handbook (previ-
ously Jones Radio Handbook ), issued by
the publishers of “Radio,” U.S.A., is re-
markably complete and up to date. The
antenna section has details of every
known type of directive radiator; the
chapter on receivers goes from simple
dual-valve regenerative types, through the
super- and ultra-gainer series to the latest
de-luxe communications receiver, and the
transmitter section covers everything that
the C.W. and ’phone amateur will ever
need to know. Valve charts and tables
are provided throughout the publication,
which takes up 512 profusely illustrated
pages. It is available from McGill’s
Newsagency, 183 Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne Cl (Vic.); 9s. 6d., plus 9d.
postage.
"Radio Digest,"
January-February Issue.
The fourth issue of the new “Radio
Digest” is to hand, and contains features
of interest to both layman and profes-
sional radio engineer—“ Forecasting Sun-
spots and Radio Communication Condi-
tions,” “Television Problems: A Descrip-
tion for Laymen,” “Converting Broad-
cast Superheterodynes for Communica-
tion Use,” “Radiotelephony: Its Origin
and Development,” “U-H-F Negative
Grid Triode Oscillator and Amplifier,”
“Dynamic Symmetry for Better Radio
Design,” “Instantaneous Recording
Needles” and “External Cross-modula-
tion.” Subscription is 16s. per year,
through The Bulletin office, 252
George-street, Sydney.
Latest in the Trade.
Low-impedance cable of the 72-ohm
kind suitable for radio transmission pur-
poses has not been available in Aus-
tralia hitherto, and aerial feeders of the
twisted-pair type have been confined
mostly to substitutes involving the twist-
ing together of lengths of insulated wire
of various kinds. Cable of the E.0.l
type, as widely used in U.S.A., can now
be had in Sydney from John Martin
Pty., Ltd., 116 Clarence-street. It con-
sists of two specially-insulated 12 B. and
S. gauge copper conductors lightly
twisted in a glazed outer covering, water-
proofed and designed to stand exposure
to the weather for a long time. Price is
only Is. 6d. per yard.
* *
Negotiations between Aerovox Cor-
poration of New York and Ducon Con-
denser Pty., Ltd., of Australia have re-
sulted in the Australian co. becoming
attorney and exclusive licensee for Aero-
vox in this country. Ducon has recently
purchased the whole of Continental
Carbon Co.’s condenser plant and stock.
* * * *
From Amplion (A’sia), 66 Clarence-
street, Sydney, this Page has received
details of a new power charger for home
use. This is known as the Model 100,
and delivers six volts at 100 watts.
As may be seen from the illustration,
it is a combined petrol engine and
generator, and is admirably suited for
country homestead work. The engine is
of the four-cycle, air-cooled, single-
cylinder type, with ignition supplied from
a built-in flywheel magneto—wholly en-
closed and moisture-proof.
The generator is fan-cooled and
equipped with automatic circuit breaker.
The whole outfit weighs only 461 b. and
takes up a space of 15£in. by 9|in. by
13yin. It is not necessary to bolt it
down, as the mounting has rubber-
padded feet and there is no vibration.
Once filled with petrol and oil it is ready
to run anywhere, and is supplied com-
plete with charging leads, terminal clips,
tools, starter rope and all instructions.
Obvious uses are the charging of two-
and six-volt radio batteries as well as
car and small lighting batteries. This
unit, by reason of the economy of the
single-cylinder engine, appears to be an
ideal extra outfit for battery charging
as distinct from the regular 32-volt
home-lighting plant. Price and further
particulars can be had from the Amplion
Co.
Seventy-eight amplifiers, installed by
A.W.A., were used during the progress of
the Eucharistic procession at Newcastle
(N.S.W.). The largest amplifier in Aus-
tralia was in action, giving an output of
200 watts and feeding 60 of the loud-
speakers simultaneously.


X
V
! !
18 MB*
‘5
mmm
SK:
»
!! !« !
JM
i .■
Electrically Tempered
BLUE GILLETTES
shave better
because their cutting edge
« is harder
• is stronger
• is keener
• lasts longer
Packet of Five 1/6
BLUE GILLETTE
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED BLADES
d
GILLETTE RAZORS
AND BLADES are
made for each other
NEW PICTURES By THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
When in Sydney Visit
The-Australian Art Exhibition
<<c Uhe <sXCaclecd Gallery”
252 G eor § e Street
(Near Bridge Street).
Admission Free.
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S.
Arabs and Indian Moslems
How much support would Britain have
got from Lawrence’s Arabs under the
Eden regime (B. 2/37’38)? The answer
is just as much as Lawrence ever got,
provided they were handed £600,000 in
gold as the price of their assistance, such
as it was, in Arabia. Little mention is
made of this payment in the many eulo-
gies of Lawrence. Full details of it were
asked and given in the Commons, and,
though Lawrence himself does not adver-
tise it in his Revolt in the Desert, he
does, to do him justice, make brief refer-
ences to doling the stuff out in instal-
ments as he received it. Without that
cash Lawrence, who previously had little
experience of- any Arabs save laborers
on his arctueological jobs, would not
have lasted a week among the murder-
ous and venal Bedouins.
And it is doubted in the same article
if the 80,000,000 Indian Moslems would
have continued their old allegiance.
From the little the writer knows of them
he is prepared to say they would just
carry on as before. There is a gulf as
wide as that between certain Christian
sects between the Moslems of India
and the Arab variety, the former being
divided, not only into sects, as is the
case with the Arabs, but into many dif-
fering nationalities as well. Indian Mos-
lems did not turn a hair when the Caliph
pronounced a jihad in 1915 and called
on the Faithful to muster under the
Black Banner to Turkey’s aid, and they
are just as little concerned with the
Arabs’ troubles. Lastly, if Islam is to
endure in India save as a persecuted and
downtrodden faith it can only be as a
firm and unswerving ally of Britain. —
Yours etc., Ibn el Issar.
Law Schools
According to Prof. H. Bailey, Dean
of the Faculty of Law at the University
of Melbourne, “the most loyal Aus-
tralian must admit that university law
schools here are not adequately equipped
for their task when judged by North
American standards.” Must this be ad-
mitted?
Inadequate as they may be, our Aus-
tralian law schools teach a respect for
justice and professional dignity. Do U.S.
law schools? It is questioned by maga-
zine critics and makers of talkie films
that reach this country.—K. M. (Vic.).
The Land of Regulations
N.S.W. regulations governing the label-
ling of manufactured articles of food are
annoying a MX. businessman who is
trying to establish a new line over here.
They differ not only from those else-
where in the Commonwealth, but from
the rules in force anywhere else in the
Empire; insistence on the word “imita-
tion” where “artificial” is usual is only
one of the petty differences that are forc-
ing him to load the cost of new stationery
on the public. After a fight in which
departmental officials insisted that the
strict letter of the regulations be com-
plied with, the businessman made a tour
of the shops and returned to the depart-
ment with specimens of six brands of
his product, all on sale in Sydney, not
one of which complied with the regu-
lations.— S. D. (N.S.W.).
Dumtan’s “Relief Tax”
Taxation would be impracticable for
raising rehousing money, Vic. Premier
Dunstan says, as “imposts on industry
may cause unemployment.” Hear, hear ;
but Mr. Dunstan doesn’t hold the same
views on an unemployment tax which
has long outlived most of the reason for
its introduction. —K. (Vic.).
Communist Propaganda
Peddlers of Communist propaganda
are never idle in North Queensland. They
are so “employed” even during the crush-
ing season, when work is plentiful. If
any householder refuses to buy—and
many do —they are asked to take a pam-
phlet without paying for it. A refusal
to do so is met by arguments, and even
abuse.
If I were to go from house to house
pestering people with my religious con-
victions or my Utopian politics I would
probably be arrested as a public nuis-
ance.
There is a sufficient police force in our
district very efficient in catching the
cigarette-behind-ear brigade which per-
sists in having two bob on Whatsthis in
the Flying. At the same time there is
an organisation collecting to import
Spaniards. Those of us who are old
enough know that Italians who give their
fellow-countrymen a bad name up this
way, and who are detested by decent
Italians and Australians alike, were
wished on us during the influx of 1924-
25, when Mussolini became a bit free
with the castor-oil bottle. Are we going
to have the same class now from Spain?
—W. B. (N.Q.).
Teach ’Em to Think.
“The greatest menace to any status
quo is a thinking population.” So said a
Melbourne teacher at the Teachers’ Union
conference. That is no reason why chil-
dren shouldn’t be taught to think. Only
the superfluous growths adhering to Aus-
tralia’s system of democratic govern-
ment can be menaced by thinking. The
basic principles of this democracy should
not be threatened while the only alter-
native systems of government appear to
be the two broad forms of dictatorship
in existence overseas. Each of these is
alien to the Australian character. Neither
allows people the freedom of speech and
constitutional action by which Australia
can learn what its teachers believe—and
what they intend doing about education.
—M. L. (Vic.).
Mechanical Alliance
It is the fashion in Australia, as else-
where in the Empire, including Britain
itself, to depreciate British achievement.
This is particularly noticeable in respect
of aeroplane performance. Australian
Defence authorities order American
machines for our air forces, and when-
ever a distance, speed or altitude per-
formance is put up by any country out-
side the Empire it gets loud publicity.
It comes as a relief to find that there
is something to be said sometimes for
the despised British designer. For a
week Australian papers gave consider-
able space to the flight from Spain to
Brazil of a squadron of Italian aero-
planes. Those ’planes were powered with
British-Bristol Pegasus engines. Ail-
eron (N.S.W.).
Into the Pigeonhole
Payne and Fletcher reported drastically
on the North Australian railway and the
Central Australian railway, but recom-
mended that two other railways should
be built to the Barkly Tableland and
Fitzroy country, which districts together
they decided would carry 2,250,000
sheep. One line was to run from
Dajarra, 160 miles in Queensland and 60
miles in the N.T., mainly through level
country with few difficulties and bridges.
The other was a line to serve the Ord
River and the big cattle stations of the
north-west—ls.o miles in W.A. and 50
miles in the N.T.
The commissioners’ main reasons for
recommending these lines, though they
are emphatically against new railways in
general:—
The railways in sheep districts are among
. the best-paying lines. Sheep contribute a
large volume of high-grade traffic capable
of paying relatively heavy rates. They con-
tribute also substantial backloading
We are of opinion that a combined cattle
and sheep railway in each of the localities
• mentioned would pay its way and prove
an investment of great value to the nation.
Moreover,' these valuable tracts of country
cannot be developed by any other means.
Now opinion is expressed in Canberrra
which, among other things, casts doubts
on the accuracy of the forecasts on which
the railway recommendations were
based.” The Minister, himself a Vic-
torian farmer, should let it be known
whose opinion this is.
An objection thus voiced against the
new lines is that they would “divert
traffic from the North Australian line.”
The North Australian line, according to
the Payne Commission, “traverses poor
country of low productive capacity, and
with each extension the loss has in-
greased.” So little traffic is there that
the engines and rolling-stock date from
1889. • Its biggest year of goods and
livestock traffic—it is 316 miles long—
since 1931-32 yielded it £13,674 gross, its
smallest just over £7OOO, the average
under £lO,OOO p.a. An average of nearly
£20,000 comes from passengers, and
figures have been temporarily inflated
through, the mining boom.
With a revenue of about £30,000, it
has been losing an. average of roughly
£lO,OOO a year, and on top of that has
to meet an annual interest bill which in
1935-36 was £124,000. Yet its oldest
section has been working for 48 years. It
carried only a total average of 5000 tons
of livestock and goods in 1935-36. In
some other recent years the figure has
been down to 3000-odd tons, and the
annual number of passengers ranges
round 3000. There would not seem to
be much traffic to take away from it.
In any case, two more experienced
men than Payne and Fletcher could not
have been picked, and their report calls
for better treatment than being shunted
into a Canberra pigeonhole.—E. H. M.
(Q-).


LYS
4. -
PROOF
t«W«Hwaal
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
H Mi
i m
.. is
■
. - »
'‘; .'■*
3K
• *
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty, Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY " LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Quality Before Yield.
“Geelong”: Both spinning quality and
yield should receive consideration in the
classing of merino and crossbred clips,
but when necessary a slight sacrifice of
yield should be made in favor of quality.
Heavy conditioned lines are always
necessary in merino, but often very light
fleeces slightly off in quality are forced
into the sup. comb, line because of their
yield. The brightest fleeces in a merino
clip from light country are often thin-
stapled, and these, too, are sometimes
placed in the top line. This is a mistake,
as the sup. comb, must be fine, even in
quality and length, deep-stapled, sound
and reasonably high-yielding, though
yield should not predominate. In cast
lines of styleless wool a mixture of
spinning quality is allowable.
Because of variation, crossbred clips
can seldom be classed “right out,” but
all stylish wool should be kept even in
quality, close counts being mixed in the
second lines, according to the discretion
of the classer, who should watch market
tendencies.
Carbon Tetrachloride Poisoning.
“Bungaree”: There are two forms of
carbon tetrachloride poisoning.
One, resulting in
the almost immedi-
ate collapse of the
affected animals, is
caused by faulty
drenching. If the
drench enters the
windpipe and the
lungs it causes suf-
focation.
Dose sheep stand-
ing, and do not
force the head back
or hold the lower
jaw or tongue.
The other type is
more common. So
far the actual cause
of death has not
been fully ascer-
tained. Deaths do
not occur for three
or four days after
drenching, and may
occur during the
next week. Symp-
toms are mostly
connected with in-
ternal pain ; scour-
ing occurs. Many
animals recover at this stage, but in a
week or two the affected sheep will com-
mence to shed their wool.
Post-mortems reveal severe inflamma-
tion of the fourth stomach and small
intestines, with haemorrhages there and
under the skin. The liver is darker than
normally, and parts of the body show
yellow-jaundice stains.
The blame has been laid on the
drench ; but although there may be oc-
casionally ground for such complaints
losses have occurred where the purity of
the drench was beyond question. Care
should be taken to use only brands of
carb. tet. certified to conform to British
Pharmacopoeia 1932 standard.
Where carb. tet. has not been used
previously, a test drenching on a few
selected sheep of different ages should
be carried out 10 days before general
operations. This is important with ewes
heavy in lamb.
Sheep to be drenched should not be
fed on meatmeal or linseed meal or
concentrates for at least a week before
and after drenching.
Do not drench in cold or wet weather,
and, if a sudden cold change should
occur, give the treated sheep all shelter
available.
Sheep should not be yarded overnight.
Bring them in early and allow them to
cool off for an hour or so before
drenching.
A theory which is being investigated
is that lack of lime may render carb.
tet. toxic. Where such a possibility
exists, sheep should be supplied with a
lick of 70 parts dicalcic phosphate or
bonemeal to 30 parts salt.
If there are losses inform the nearest
vet. or stock inspector.
“Hundred and three! I'm sure you could tell an interesting story."
"Aye! 'Ave y ’ 'card that 'un 'bout little Audrey?"
Preparing Bellies.
“C.V.S.”: Though very good bellies
are little inferior to fleece wool except
in yield, most belly wool is of poor color,
with a “crushed crimp,” thinly-grown;
appearance. It usually carries burr.
Bellies should not be torn up and
branded “Pcs.” or mixed with good
pieces. This deceives nobody and
renders bulk-classing or other subsequent
handling difficult.
If they match, bellies may be mixed
with ordinary pieces to make a bale.
Otherwise they should be sold apart.'
When ringing wether bellies, care
should be taken to remove all stains.
Sweaty fribs should be skirted from
good light bellies, and, where they show
great variation in length and style, a
first and second line may be made if
there is enough wool.
T • , ° r
Laying three or four bellies on one
another, then rolling into a ball, is un-
e essary. When first opened the bale
oo s bright, but buyers soon tear the
woo apart. Sorting, too, is hampered,
particularly if bellies carry heavy burr.
P.* mn lxr
P mply Gut in Sheep.
“Corriedale”: Although it is not pos-
sible to secure 100 p.c. clean-up of
nodule worm, once sheep are dosed effi-
ciently, and not run with (or shortly
after) infested animals on the same pas-
ture, they can last out three to five years
before treatment is again necessary.
Sheep become infested only from larvae
that hatch in droppings of other sheep.
Reduce the infestation, generally, and
fewer animals pick up, a severe dose of
nodule worm.
The time of treatment has a lot to do
with the success of the enema. Nodule-
worm larvae live in the gut-wall “pimples”
for anything from a week to three
months, and in this stage no drug can
harm them.. They must hatch and become
adults in the large bowel itself before
the sodium arsenate is effective, and this
stage does not happen for some weeks
aftei feed has dried-off in summer. At
this time no fresh larvae are being con-
sumed to maintain the infestation.
Sheep dosed in early summer and
moved immediately to clean ground— i.e.,
paddocks which have not run flocks for
some months—will remain tolerably free
from nodule worm. They must, however,
be kept always on clean country.
When dosing in the moist season
larvae are still living in the soil and
grass-mat, and consequently are con-
sumed heavily. The enema treatment
is waste of time, as so many larvae are
protected in the pimples.
Draft Before Shearing.
“C.V.S.”: In mixed clips too small to
warrant professional classing much may
be done by drafting sheep before shear-
ing.
Some small growers with flocks of
merino or comeback carrying a small
proportion of crossbred shear all sheep
together and arrange for store classing.
Greasy merino clings to crossbred and
should be separated. Otherwise fleece
wool may be treated this way; but by
drafting out the crossbreds the pieces
may be separately picked.
A hundredweight of crossbred pieces
mixed through a four-bale lot of 12001 b.
could ruin its sale and necessitate bulk-
classing. If separated, the balance would
be even enough for sale, leaving only the
hundredweight for treatment. At |d.
per pound, the saving amounts to
£2 17s. 3yd.
Draft all sheep before shearing (lambs
also where possible), and bale the wool
separately or keep sections in the one
bale apart with paper divisions. Bulk-
classing brokers may then examine wool,
treating what they consider necessary and
interlotting other small even lots at a
lesser charge.
It is possible that all small lots will
be treated by the bulk-handling or bulk-
classing method in the future.
One disadvantage would be that the
owner cannot withhold his wool from
sale once it is treated. At present, the
bale-for-bale method of interlotting is
preferable for the owner of small even
lots.
Taking Care of the Sadd!e.
“Liss”: The best treatment for saddles
(B. 16/2/’38)? Never use either mutton
fat or castor oil on anything but team
harness, and not then if it can be
avoided; it only clogs the surface and
collects dirt.
For sweat-flaps and girths use neats-
foot, applied sparingly and rubbed well
in with a rag, using only as much as
the leather will absorb. This treatment
should be repeated once a week while
the saddle is new, first removing all
sweat and dirt with a nail-brush, fairly
warm water and saddle soap. No grease
or dressing except polish should be used
on the seat, and for the rest an occa-
sional application of saddle soap, rubbed
well in with the fingers after the surface
has been cleaned, is enough.
A saddle’s life depends on quality and
the use it receives as much as on the
dressings applied to it, and for this
reason certain simple rules should be
followed. It should never be dropped
on the ground. It should always be
hung up when not in use, preferably by
the crupper dee, on a hook on the ceil-
ing. If a rack is preferred the rack
should be padded.
When polishing, rub the surface down
well with a cloth after using the saddle
soap, then apply the polish.
Here are two useful recipes:
Saddle soap. —Two quarts water, \\
quarts warm fresh milk, 1 quart draught
castor oil, 2 quarts fresh dripping con-
taining no salt, 1 scant pint kerosene,
1 large bar best common soap, flaked.
Simmer for at least 12 hours, stirring
occasionally till cool. Keep in airtight
tins or jars.
Saddle polish. —Two ounces dripping,
6oz. beeswax, 6oz. powdered sugar, 2oz.
soft soap. Dissolve the soap in 1| pints
of water, add the rest and melt. Add
loz. turpentine. If for black harness
add with the other ingredients loz'.
lampblack. Apply with a sponge and
polish with a brush.
Checking Soil Drift.
“Videre”: Splendid results have been
obtained with lupins, oats and barley in
checking soil drift in W.A. The affected
(“Land” continued on page 44.)


3998.
S/V*
» ; \m
/' / VrgJ
I T\
TRY THEM ON FOR APPEARANCE
Wear them for comfort.
There’s one thing about an Abbey Riding Boot, it feels as good as it looks.
The high-polishing, strong calf is soft and supple, moulding to the foot like
leather half its weight. Made in Brown Willow Calf in full sizes. Leather-lined
throughout.
Brown, Price 39/6.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.’’
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
EXPLORERS
O F
AUSTRALIA
a.v
mm
/X
/v/ r/.c/ v/
mm
Captain Matthew Flinders r./y.
Professor Scott, iti his “Australian Discovery by Sea,”
says:
“Captain Matthew Flinders ranks next to Cook for the
importance of his maritime discoveries in the south,
and even before that great navigator for the scientific
thoroughness that characterised his work.”
Commissioned by the Admiralty to explore the southern
coast of New Holland, as Australia was then known, Flinders
in the ship “Investigator”, put into King George’s Sound in
Western Australia. Sailing eastward from there along the
coast he discovered Spencer’s Gidf and St. Vincent’s Gulf.
He proved that New Holland was not divided into two large
islands as some people had imagined.
The following year he sailed around the continent, and he
was the first to suggest that it be called Australia, but it was
many years before the name was officially recognised.
Even for some years after the Bank of New South
Wales was established in 1817, the continent continued
to be known as New Holland, the colony of New South
Wales then embracing the present States of Queens-
land, New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania and about
half of South Australia and Northern Territory.
ESTABLISHED 1817
311F.1938
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
area is ploughed in April; then, to en-
courage grass growth, the edges of the
drift are topdressed with 901 b. of super,
per acre. Next the area is sown with a
601 b. mixture of Guyra oats and Cape
barley and 41b. of blue lupin seed, and
harrowed. Any parts where the seed
does not come up very thick are planted,
with sub. clover and Wimmera rye.
Stock are not allowed on the treated
area for the first season, and great care
is taken to see that the fences will keep
out rabbits and stock. The necessary
firebreaks are also- made.
Lupins for summer feed, being rich in
proteins, add to the grazing value of the
land. The treated areas carry more stock
each year, and have been gradually re-
stored to their former fertility.
Mint Weed.
“Peter Paw”: Some of the blacksoil
areas of northern N.S.W. and S. Queens-
land are being gripped by a pest which
threatens to be as bad as Bathurst burr —
mint weed, an importation which has cost
Kansas (U.S.A.) and neighboring States
millions.
The small seeds germinate in myriads
under conditions in which most other
pests and grasses die. Even the most
sticky and churned-up land seems to be
a good breeding-bed.
From a tiny area the weed has spread
in 10 years from northern N.S.W. to
Blackall (s.-w. Q.). Deaths of stock, due
tc poisoning, have resulted from eating
the weed, a loss of 600 out of a mob of
1200 bullocks being the greatest to date.
Stock brought up in an infested dis-
trict avoid the plant and are not often
victims, but travelling stock may seed on
it and go loco. Its spread is very rapid
on neglected cultivations, stock routes
and overstocked grasslands.
A check may be effected by careful
husbandry, intelligent stocking of grass-
lands and spelling, as far as possible, of
infested routes, thus giving the natural
grasses a chance.
The invasion has assumed such pro-
portions that its eradication is entirely
beyond the finances of local authorities.
Hay from Native Grasses.
“Mulyan”: Many native grasses be-
sides Mitchell make good meadow hay-
blue, kangaroo, wallaby, silvertop, brown
top, satin top, Wyuna and native oat.
All are hardy, fattening and drought-
resisting, and are relished, green or dry,
by horses, sheep and cattle.
Blue grass stands cutting two or three
times in a season. It grows five or six
feet high and, as a pasture grass, carries
more sheep to the acre than any other.
Starving stock pick up quickly on the
hay.
Wallaby and kangaroo grasses are
next best to Mitchell for hay-making—-
the former the better of the two. Horses
work through a month’s hard mustering
on this hay, and many a good racehorse
is trained on the hay and chaff.
Native-oat grass has a grain very
similar to the cultivated oat. It runs
five to nine feet high. It must be cut
when grown and succulent. Silvertop
and Wyuna grass should be cut in the
flowering stage. Others can be cut at
any time.
J
Egyptian Corn.
“Sandpatch”: If there’s any difficulty
in growing sorghums or millets give
Egyptian torn a trial. A trial plot on
poor sandy soil 10 miles from Grafton
(N.S.W.) has done well this season, and
the seed is being saved for further plant-
ing. It has also given good results at
Mackay (N.Q.). At Forrest River
(W.A.) it did well: The soil is diffi-
cult to work, and sets like cement after
rain, while the torrential rains and ex-
treme heat leach out all the humus.
Seed is a bit larger than millet, and
plant is; a heavy bearer. It is a valuable
milk-producer. So far, the only pests
to worry it are parrots, which are ex-
tremely partial to the hard white seeds,
something like a miniature barley in
shape.
The plant grows 7ft. high and ratoons
freely. The grain is a useful poultry
food, and is the staple article of diet
among the Egyptian peasantry, who
either grind it into flour or eat it as a
porridge meal.
It will, moreover, stand longer dry
spells than any of the existing millets.
Late spring is the best time to plant.
Judging by the way cattle eat the green
stalks, it should make good silage.
“Fore Royal”: Not surprising that
there were no taproots to “Jindivick’s”
citrus-trees (B. 19/1/’38); they would be
cut off before planting. Most nursery-
men now cut the tap of citrus-trees
before sending out an order, but a few
orchardists still grow and bud their own
stock and plant their citrus on a stone.
The object in both cases is to prevent the
tap —where this is left —from striking
down and to keep the lateral roots near
the surface, thus promoting the ready
absorption of fertiliser. Again, no
orchardist should plough any deeper than
is necessary to turn in any green fer-
tiliser crop or weed growth. Applied fer-
tiliser should be hoed in, and on modern
properties, both for this work and for
general orchard care, the rotary hoe is
fast displacing the plough.
“Sheep Cocky”: “Hornsby” (B.
16/2/’3B) says more failures occur
through shallow sowing of lucerne than
through deep planting, and recommends
on heavy, self-mulching soils a depth of
l|in. to 2in. My experience has been the
opposite. A wide old gardener once
told me: “Sow seeds at a depth cor-
responding to 2j times their own size.”
Generally speaking, I have proved this
correct; also, that seeds like the soil well
packed. I can recall many failures from
deep working and deep sowing in # loose
ground. In preparing the paddock, work
the surface to a fine tilth, leaving a very
firm seed bed, sow on the top and roll.
Roots of young plants quickly come in
contact with the undisturbed soil. The
means vary with season and country.
Do not graze during the first 12 months.
“Atrax”: Most farmers regard lady-
birds as pest-destroying friends, but the
leaf-eating species is a serious enemy of
potatoes, melons and pumpkins. They
are about |in. long, with an easily-recog-
nisable coloring of black spots scat-
tered thickly over a yellow ground on
wing-cases and thorax. The eggs are
yellowish, long-ovalish in shape, and laid
in clusters on leaves. Larvae are yellow,
larger than the adult form, with rows of
branching dark spines on the back. They
devour the under surfaces of leaves. The
pupae attach themselves to the leaves or
stalks. From egg to adult takes about
four weeks. Lead arsenate, to 50
gallons of water as a spray, or diluted
as a dust, will scupper them in potato
crops at any stage, but should not be
used after melons or pumpkins are
formed, owing to poison risk. Dry ashes
are the best substitute then.
“Bull-ant Bill”: A really sharp, well-
set saw, hand or crosscut, is a blessing
on any wood job, and it is not difficult
to sharpen. Fix it in a firm vyce or
clamp, handle to the right, and lay a
straightedge along the teeth. If uneven,
run a mill file along the points until it
touches each one. If not, or thereafter,
set each alternate tooth towards you,
taking care not to go below the middle
of the tooth. Adjustable sawsets can be
bought from 3s. 6d. up. Turn the saw
and repeat down the other side. Then
(not before), with a suitable size file in
a good handle, sharpen each of the teeth
set towards you to about 45deg., hold-
ing the file level. Turn the saw in the
clamp again, and sharpen the alternate
teeth. The job is best done in sunlight to
see the glint of the filed surfaces. Later
on, teeth will have to be shaped and gul-
letted, but with previous practice on a
new saw the job will not be difficult.
“B-gar”: Wool willeying— i.e., the re-
moval of dust, dirt and a deal of other
foreign matter from wool—has been
meeting with success in S. Australia.
Little attention has been paid to willey-
ing in Australia, but it should be profit-
able for a company to establish a
machine at several of the big wool-load-
ing centres. Here all low-grade heavily-
sanded or dusty wools could be treated.
The saving in freight would more than
pay costs.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is it against the law to have tobacco grow-
ing in a Q’land city garden ? —58695.
Tobacco plants must be registered both by
the Department of Agriculture and Stock and
the Customs Department. The latter needs an
annual return showing the quantity of leaf
produced and particulars of its disposal. No
fee is payable.


A RECORD YEAR ... AND A WORLD’S
RECORD IN LIFE ASSDRANCE
The Australasian Catholic Assurance Co. Ltd. established what is
believed to be a world’s record by paying bonuses out of profits
earned in its tenth year. It is purely an Australian office, and 90 p.c.
of the profits earned are set aside for policy-holders’ bonuses.
“The Bulletin,” having analysed the accounts from
the inception of the institution, recently remarked:
“The business was set on its feet by E. J. Mooney, its
managing-director, in 1921. Ten years later bonuses
to policy-holders, whose interests have been placed in
the foreground, and dividends to shareholders began
to flow. This is a creditable performance for a young
life office which entered an already-crowded field. The
business, which continues to grow, is now spread
throughout the Commonwealth, offices being estab-
lished in all the State capitals.
“Policy-holders scored, actuary Bremner recommend-
ing increases in reversionary bonuses ranging from
5 p.c. to 11 p.c. of the previous bonus declaration, and
making present rates £2 15s. p.c. on whole-of-life
(payable in the first year) and £1 17s. p.c. on endow-
ment assurances. They are very satisfactory rates,
considering the age of the business.”
Accounts for the year to June 30, 1937, disclosed
the most satisfactory year in the history of the
A.C.A.
A surplus of over
£150,000
was shown, and the total assets of the company
now exceed
£1,000,000
Interest earnings in relation to funds, one of the
A.C.A.’s chief sources of bonuses to policy-holders,
at £4/10/- per cent, net showed a large increase when
compared with the 1 936 figure of over £4/7/- per cent,
net on the mean Life Fund. A wide margin over the
assumed rate of £3/10/- per cent, enabled bonuses
to policy-holders to be still further increased.
> S'
Mg
s
36
n
T
jsj£S£
r
3?
***wi
—m% T /
S
"V
- -
*-i«
gojp
rsaMgag^aa^
I m»P
3e
.
3T3?
3ESfS
"
e ~«:
ssir
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE CO. LTD
Head Office:
A.C.A. BUILDING, 66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices
VICTORIA:
A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
1 3 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
QUEENSLAND:
A.C.A. Building, 270-272 Queen Street, Brisbane.
R. F. McHugh, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
B. Murphy, Resident Secretary.
THOMAS J. PURCELL, Esq.
Directors:
EDWARD J. MOONEY, Esq., Chairman.
PATRICK J. RYAN, Esq., J.P.
DESMOND J. MOONEY, Esq.


Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
GeWeral Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South AVales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the Woild,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
m Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written 1
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Our Seryice Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Digester-house foreman, Q’land, dry ren-
dering system, two years’ exp. fertiliser milling
and compounding, do own repairs, will accept
permanent position.—B7B7.
Woodworker, N.S.W., can build bodies on
spring carts, tip-drays, undercarriage and
bodies on wagons, do all kinds of solder-
ing and welding, wants position on station. —
8823.
Blacksmith (45), Vic., shoeing, jobbing, rough
carpenter, wants position bush mill or station.
—BBl4.
Words of recitation entitled “Walk,” popular
on vaudeville stage about 1914 and 1915. —
8813.
Information Sought.
(1) Results of the first Test matches played
between South Africa and Australia in South
Africa ? (2) What have been the results of
all Tests between Australia and South Africa ?
—8844.
(1) First Test at Johannesburg, October 11-14,
1902, drawn ; Australia 296 and 7 for 372 (in-
nings closed), S. Africa 454 and 4 for 101.
Second Test at Johannesburg, October 18-21,
Australia won by 159 runs; S. Africa 240 and
85, Australia 175 and 309. Third Test at Cape-
town, November 8-11, Australia won by 10
wickets; S. Africa 85 and 225, Australia 252
and no wickets for 59. (2) Australia has won
18, South Africa 1, drawn 5.
* * *
(1) When were the first cricket clubs formed
in Sydney? (2) Where were the mdtches
played? (3) First match played on the Sydney
Cricket Ground ? —8836.
(1) The first club formed was the Military
in 1826; other clubs which followed were the
Australian, Currency, Citizens, Marylebone,
Union and Victoria. (2) On Hyde Park on the
north-western corner near Park-street. (3)
Between the Audit and the Government Printing
Departments for the Civil Service Challenge
Cup in October, 1877.
ijc s|e
(1) When the English XI was in Australia
in 1936-37 how many different players repre-
sented Australia,? (2) Is it a fact that Brad-
man and McCabe scored as many runs as the
rest of the players ? (3) What were the full
bowling figures of O’Reilly ( Australia ) and
Voce ( England ) in the five Tests? —8828.
(1) 18. (2) No; 16 players scored 1386 runs
against 1301 by Bradman (810) and McCabe
(491). (3) Voce’s figures were 159.5 overs, 20
maidens, 580 runs, 26 wickets, average 22.30;
O’Reilly’s efforts were 247.6 overs, 89 maidens,
557 runs, 25 wickets, average 22.28.
* * * *
What were the match-results of the 1908 Aus-
tralian Rugby League team that went to Eng
land? The Test-match scores? —8834.
Played 45; 18 won, 21 lost, 6 drawn. Points
for, 125 tries, 93 goals (561 points); against.
105 tries, 76 goals (467 points). First Test was
drawn (22 points each), England won the second
Test by 15 points to 5, and the third Test
by 6 points to 5.
* , * * *
(1) When did Jack Carroll have his first
fight? (2) When and where was he born? (3)
Hor many contests did he take part in during
his career, and how many of these did he win,
lose and draw ? —8826.
(1) Early in 1924. (2) Born Kensington,
Vic., February 3, 1906. (3) 99 contests (includ-
ing the Melbourne one with Jimmy Leto on
February 22) for 84 wins, 10 losses, three draws,
one no decision and one “no fight.”
* * * *
A few details concerning a flower, said to be
the largest in the world, which bloomed in New
York last year after careful cultivation for
many years? —B773.
The largest flower in the world, Amorpho-
phallus titanum, a native of Sumatra, which
has bloomed only twice at Kew, London,
bloomed last year for the first time in the
New York Botanical Gardens. The greenhouse
containing the flower had been maintained at
a temperature of 96deg., and tropical rains
simulated by pouring many gallons of water
over the roots every day. After it had lain
for five years apparently dormant, except for
the production of three leaves, it bloomed
on June 8, 1937. The flower rose to a height
of Bft. sin., with a stem 17in. high and 17in.
in circumference. The spadix or central spike
was 6ft. 1 Tin. tall, and the bloom itself, which
resembled an inverted bell, was 12ft. lOin. in
circumference. It was yellow and green out-
side and maroon inside; the spadix was yellow;
and the stem was dark blue and green, with
yellow spots. The flower emitted an over-
poweringly offensive odor.
*■ i * *
Writer of the open letter entitled “J’Accuse”
and the circumstances under which it was
written ? —8770.
It is the title of a " letter written by Emile
Zola to the President of the French Republic
and published in “L’Aurore,” in which he
fiercely exposed the official attempts to con-
ceal the facts in the notorious Dreyfus affair.
The letter was published on January 13, 1898,
just after the acquittal of Esterhazy, and Zola
was in consequence prosecuted; and though
defended by Labori and Albert Clemenceau
(brother of Georges Clemenceau), he was con-
victed and sentenced to a year’s imprison-
ment. He subsequently took refuge in Eng-
land for a time.
* * * *
Australian exports to and imports from the
following countries last year: (1) France, (2)
Soviet Russia, (3) U.S.A., (4) Germany, (5)
Italy and (6) Japan? —B7Bs.
(1) Imports £865,919, exports £A7,932,789;
(2) £120,338, £A20,721; (3) £12,959,343,
£A18,763,152; (4) £3,596,584, £A4,239,026;
(5) £410,002, £A5,331,528; (6) £4,004,465,
£A9,705,738.
* * * *
(1) What goods did we import from Soviet
Russia last year, and (2) what goods did we
export to the same country? —B7Bl.
(1) Figures are as at June 30, 1937, and
are as follows: Fish £32,583, flax £18,074,
dressed furs £27,514, cushions, etc., £lll2, hair
and fibre £1286, hides and skins £20,978, oils
in bulk £10,798, staves £652, veneers and ply-
wood £6O, wood manufactures £3491, drugs
and chemicals £1385, all other articles £2405;
total £120,338. (2) Cattle hides £A15,394,
greasy wool £A5237, all other articles £A100;
total £A20,721.
* * * *
(1) Names of ships of the Royal Australian
Navy ? (2) Is a ship belonging to the Royal
Navy stationed in Australian waters? (3)
When was the construction of the Canberra
begun? When completed? When did the
vessel arrive in Australia? —8691.
(1) Cruisers, Canberra, Australia, Sydney,
Adelaide; flotilla leader, Stuart; destroyers, Ven-
detta, Voyager, Vampire, Waterhen; seaplane-
carrier, Albatross; sloops (minesweepers), Yarra,
Swan; surveying ship, Moresby; depot ship,
Penguin ; oiler, Kurumba. (2) No. (3) H.M.A.S.
Canberra was laid down by J. Brown and Co.,
Clydebank, in 1925, launched on May 31,
1927, completed in July, 1928, and commis-
sioned on July 9, 1928. The ship left Ports-
mouth for Australia on December 4, 1928,
arriving at Fremantle on January 25, 1929,
and Sydney on February 16, 1929.
* * * *
(1) Population of each State of Australia?
(2) Population of the capital of each State and
the percentage of the population of each State
living in the capital ? (3) Approximate popula-
tion of Australia living within 20 miles of the
coastline? (4) Percentage of the population of
some other countries living in their capitals ?
(5) The size of the metropolitan area of Syd-
ney and of the rest of N. S. Wales ? —8446.
(1) N. S. Wales 2,681,736, Vic. 1,851,862,
Q’land 982,134, S. Aust. 589,312, W. Aust.
451,557, and Tas. 235,059. (2) Sydney 1,267,350
(percentage of metropolitan population 47.26),
Melbourne 1,018,200 (54.98), Brisbane 313,430
(31.91), Adelaide 316,860 (53.77), Perth 212,150
(46.98), Hobart 61,500 (26.16). (3) Not avail-
able. (4) The following are the percentages of
the population of some of the chief countries
living in their capitals: England and Wales
21.00, Scotland 9.35, New Zealand 9.53, France
6.75, Germany 6,27, Italy 2.77 and Japan 8.48.
(5) The size of the metropolitan area of Sydney
is 438,388 acres (685 square miles). The area
of the whole of New South Wales is 309,432
square miles.
* * * *
Details of pirate Benito Bonito, mentioned
in Society columns of Bulletin, 24/11 / ’37 P
Has a book about him been published in Eng-
lish ? Who was the author of a book about
him in Spanish, published many years ago ?
—8496.
Few certain details. It is known that Cap-
tain Thompson, of the Mary Dear, escaped
from Lima with the cathedral treasure in 1820,
and is said to have buried it on Cocos Island
(Pacific). Being now a registered pirate, Thomp-
son began buccaneering, and, meeting with
Benito Bonito, then a notorious pirate, joined
forces with him. It is not known whether they
had separate ships. Stories vary. Thompson
was overtaken by the British frigate Espiegle,
and all but himself and one companion are said
to have been shot or hanged. Thompson
escaped, and is alleged to have returned to
Cocos to recover the treasure, but failed, and
disappeared from history. Bonito, according
to another story, escaped with his ship and
crew to be captured and hanged later by the
Spaniards. Know of no book exclusively
about Bonito, but see Doubloons, by Charles
B. Driscoll (Chapman and Hall, London).
Know of no book about Bonito in Spanish.
* * * *
(1) Brief particulars of rubber cultivation in
the New Guinea Mandated Territory ? (2) From
whom could I obtain reliable first-hand know-
ledge as to conditions on rubber plantations
there ? (3) Particulars of rubber cultivation in
Papua? (4) From whom could local informa-
tion be obtained? —8798.
(1) At June 30, 1937, the areas in the several
districts of the Territory of New Guinea planted
with rubber were as follows: New Britain 280
hectares, New Ireland 20 hectares, Madang
494 hectares, Kieta 180 hectares and Morobe
100 hectares; total, 1074 hectares. However,
no rubber is, nor has been, exported from the
Territory. The majority of the foregoing areas
were placed under cultivation many years ago,
but none of the trees has been tapped. It is
reported that the rainfall and soil in various
parts of the Territory are suitable for rubber
cultivation, but when rubber planting was com-
menced suitable seed was not avalable, and
experiments. with certain Varieties were not suc-
cessful. (2) From the secretary, Planters’
Association of New Guinea, Rabaul. (3) At
June 30, 1937, 10,270 acres of land were under
rubber cultivation in the Territory of Papua,
and during the year ended June 30, 1937, 1112
tons of rubber of a value of £124,174 was ex-
ported from the Territory to Australia. (4)
From secretary, Planters’ Association, Port
Moresby.
* * * *
A few details concerning Maximilian Harden,
the German journalist? —B7B3.
Bom on October 20, 1861, in Berlin, he
founded the weekly “Die Zukunft,” which ran
for 30 years. During the Great War he pub-
lished some daring articles in this periodical,
notably one eulogising the British effort in the
Gallipoli campaign. Through Harden’s attack
on court corruption, Prince Eulenburg had to
leave the country in 1907. During the Great
War articles by Harden had world-wide fame.
In July, 1922, he was seriously injured in a
Berlin street by an attack made by two men.
He wrote My Contemporaries, published in
1926. He died in Berlin on October 30, 1927.
* * * *
Meaning of the following electrical terms:
(1) Volt. (2 )-ampere, (3) watt? (4) Can a six-
volt accumulator be charged from a 12-volt
dynamo ? (5) Conversely, can a 12-volt accu-
mulator be charged from a six-volt dynamo ?
—8776.
(1) Unit of electrical pressure or electro-
motive force. (2) Unit of electrical current.
(3) Unit of electrical power. The power,
in watts, is obtained by multiplying volts
by amperes. (4) Yes, if a suitable resist-
ance is placed in the circuit whose value will
depend upon the charging rate. (5) No; the
charging voltage must be appreciably greater
than the accumulator voltage.
* * * *
Brief biography of the short-story writer O.
Henry 3—8520.
O. Henry, whose real name was William
Sydney Porter, was born at Greensboro, North
Carolina, U.S.A., on September 11, 1862. After
a brief schooling, he worked in a drug-store in'
his native town until ill-health compelled him
to try life on a ranch in Texas. In 1884 he
secured a post in a bank and later in the Texas
Land Office. In 1891 he became teller in the
First National Bank of Austin, and in 1894
bought and edited a weekly publication,
“Brann’s Iconoclast.” It was a failure, and in
1895 he began woric on tlje “Houston Texas
Post.” In 1896 he was arrested oh the charge
of embezzling some of the funds of the Austin
bank in which he was last employed. The
episode was never entirely cleared up, but Porter
was sentenced to five years’ imprisonment in
the Ohio Penitentiary. This was reduced to
three years by good behavior. While in prison
he settled down to the serious business of
writing, and manuscripts sent out under the
nom de plume of O. Henry earned him wide
popularity. When he was once more a free
man his first stroke of luck came when the New
York “World” gave him a contract to supply
one short story per week, at a fee of 100 dollars
each. Despite his rather intemperate habits,
he was a prodigious worker, and volume after
volume of his short stories was issued. He
died in New York on June 5, 1910.
* * * *
(1) Cost of course for analytical chemistry at
Sydney University ? (2) Duration? (3) Pros-
pects of employment for an analytical chemist ?
(4) Are honors any advantage, financial or
otherwise, in the leaving certificate prior to en-
tering the University ? —8706.
(1) £llB 4s. for courses extending over three
years, and £l3B 7s. for courses extending over
four years. (3) Three years for a pass degree;
four years for an honors degree. (3) A person
who lias achieved an honors degree in chemis-
try would have no difficulty in securing a good
position. (4) The gaining of honors at the
leaving certificate examination enhances the
value of the pass and may also be helpful in
increasing the aggregate marks for the con-
sideration of the award of a public exhibition.
* * * *
Particulars of this year’s Laura Bogue Luff-
man Memorial Prize ? —8777.
The committee offers a prize of £lO for the
best original essay on “The Life and Work of
Laura Bogue Luffman” or “The Life and Work
of a Pioneer Woman in Australia or New
Zealand.” Entrance fee is Is.; length of essay
not to exceed 2000 words; a list of sources
of information should be attached; MS. should
be signed by a nom de plume, and a sealed
envelope containing real name and address of
the writer should accompany MS.; entries close
on October 1, 1938, and should be sent to
Miss P. Harwood, 34 Edward-street, North Syd-
ney, N.S.W.
* * * . *
How to stiffen silk in the making of arti-
ficial flowers? —8713.
The best paste is the common flour paste;
place one-half cup of flour and a teaspoon of
starch in a small basin; blend with cold water
to a smooth paste, then add boiling water until
it turns or cooks into a rather transparent mass.
It can be placed over the fire and brought to
the boil if the boiling water does not quite set
it. If required to be kept, add of
powdered alum and the same quantity of oil of
cloves; stir well and keep in screwed jars. To
apply the stiffening, pin the material wrong side
up on a board or table and paint on the paste
with a wide brush. Allow to dry, then repeat
until the material is stiff enough. The paste
is best kept on the thin side to start the work.
* * * *
(1) Where can I purchase luminous paint?
(2) Recipe ? —B7lB.
(1) It can be bought wholesale from A. P.
Barncastle, Ltd., 117 York-street, Sydney, or
retail from leading watchmakers. (2) Make a
varnish of Kauri copal 6 parts, oil of turpen-
tine 24 parts, the copal being made into a
molten state and then dissolved in the turpen-
tine. The solution is filtered and mixed with
10 parts pure linseed oil, the oil being well
heated and allowed to cool before the copal
solution is added to it. For white paint—lo
parts of the varnish, 1+ of calcium carbonate,
3 of white zinc sulphide, 1| of barium sulphate,
9 of luminous calcium sulphide. For yellow
paint —12 parts of the varnish, 2 of barium
chromate, 2\ of barium sulphate, 8£ of luminous
calcium sulphide. Dry materials should be
ground before mixing, and the grinding surface
should not be of iron. Luminous calcium sul-
phide is made by mixing 50 parts of lime with
20 parts of flowers of sulphur and heating in a
closed crucible until fumes cease to be evolved.
The residue, which is calcium sulphide, must
be powdered finely.
Does Anybody Know?
Whereabouts in Emerson’s Essays does the
following passage occur: “Wherever snow falls,
or water flows, or birds fly, wherever day and
night meet in twilight, wherever the blue heaven
is hung by clouds, or sown with stars, wher-
ever are forms with transparent boundaries,
wherever are outlets into celestial space, wher-
ever is danger, and awe, and love, there is
Beauty”? —8796.
Brief Answers.
C.C.: Particulars of the names and addresses
of the various Consular representatives, as well
as their rank and year of appointment, are con-
tained in a publication issued by the Dept, of
External Affairs, Canberra, entitled “List of
Consular Representatives of Foreign Countries
in Australia and Territories under its Adminis-
tration” E.J.L.: (1) 4oz. beeswax, loz. white
soap, 1 pint turpentine, 1 pint water which has
been boiled, and 1 dessertspoon cloudy am-
monia. Pare the wax and soap finely, pour on
the turpentine, and let stand all night to dis-
solve into a paste; then add the water and
ammonia, stir well, bottle and shake until it
is white and creamy. Apply with a flannel,
and rub to a polish with another clean piece
of woollen cloth V.R.D.: Larwood’s bowl-
ing figures before the 1932-33 tour in Aus-
tralia were,455.1 overs, 2731 balls, 78 maidens,
1273 runs", 31 wickets; average, 41.06
GJ.D.: Seven runs. Overthrow runs are
added to the score already made A.F.K.:
Fingleton has never previously toured Eng-
land with an Australian X1....C.R.: Admiral
Sir Harry Rawson was Governor of N. S.
Wales from May 27, 1902, to May 27, 1909.
P.M.H.: See Rio Grande and Other
Verses, by “Banjo” Paterson A.M.: No
market value, though a collector of such curio-
sities might give you a few shillings for it
D.S.W.: Quite reliable and recommended by
many well-known people. It should be able to
improve your memory to a very large extent.
G.E.: Write Secretary, Naval Board, De-
fence Department, Melbourne.... J.S.N.H.:
Write Robertson and Mullens, 107 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne G.L.: Beabula means
“two black cockatoos”; Bunnerong “sleeping
lizard” ; Canawatha, “pine trees” ; Demondrille,
“place of spear reeds”; and Jiloong, “a small
waterhole” J.D.C'.: (1) Very few outside
of Government reporting staffs or “Hansard.”
(2) Salaries up to £6OO p.a. (3) Only as stated.
(4) Apply to N.S.W. Public Service Board, 21
Elizabeth-street, Sydney. (5) Shorthand speed
not less than 150 w.p.m. to commence —more
preferred. Necessary to hold Victorian short-
hand writer’s license for Commonwealth em-
ployment. See Mr. Walker, chief reporter,
State reporting staff, Wembley House, cnr.
Hunter and Phillip streets, Sydney, or Mr.
Baker, chief “Hansard” reporter, Parlia-
ment House, Macquarie-street, Sydney
C.W.H.: The mixture mentioned would be of
little use for the purpose, besides being very
hazardous to handle. It is suggested that the
use of a standard low-power explosive would
be most satisfactory. Information regarding
supplies and use could be obtained from the
local agents, Dalgety and Co., or R. N.
Kirk and Co. —both Sydney T.H.: Birth
certificate can be obtained at the General
Register Office, Somerset House, London, on
payment of fees amounting to ss. 1d.....
J.S.M.: From secretary, Incorporated Society
of Authors, Playwrights and Composers, 11
Gower-street, London, W.C.1.... J.S.: Garool-
gan is a N.S.W. abo. place-name meaning “a
fighting man”.. . .C.F.: Membership of the
six leading religious denominations in Canada
at the 1931 census was as follows: Roman
Catholic 4,285,388, United Church 2,017,375.
Anglican 1,635,615, Presbyterian 870,728, Bap-
tist 443,341, and Lutheran 394,194... .A.J.S.:
Dirk Hals (1589-1656) was a Dutch genre
painter, brother of Frans the Elder, and a pupil
of A. Bloemaert. Examples of his work are
at Amsterdam and Copenhagen. His pictures
can be traced from 1624, usually representing
cavaliers, women and young people drinking,
dancing, listening to music, or talking, as in
“A Party of Ladies and Gentlemen,” “Three
Musicians” and “Two Persons Dancing.” His
pictures have recently been highly appreciated.
K.B.: (1) The words of the song “A
Broken Doll” were written by Clifford Harris,
and the music composed by Jas. W. Tate.
(2) It was sung by Minnie Love in “Cinema
Star” E.A.S.: All depends on terms of
auctioneer’s letter. If you made him your
agent for sale you are liable for commission.
If not, you are not liable... .S.G.: The matter
is entirely in the hands of the police, \Vho may
prosecute or not as they see fit. “Jones” should
be very careful, or he may become involved in
the compounding of a felony T.P.0.: The
landlord may apply to the police court and get
a warrant evicting you, in which case he
may obtain the help of the police in executing
the warrant. He may alternatively, as you sug-
gest, remove the roof or walls, or, in fact,
remove the whole hut... .E.A.: Get in touch
with the Australian Broadcasting Commission,
Adelaide, or any of the leading music stores in
that city... .W.G.: Half-inch standard insulite
acoustic board nailed to 2in. by lin. battens,
18in. centres, obtainable from R. H. Corke and
Co., Timbply House, 114-120 Day-street,
Sydney; price 355. per 100 sq. ft J.E.H.:
Write N.Z. Tourist and Trade Commissioner,
14 Martin-place, Sydney... .W.0.C.: (1) From
any leading Sydney bookseller. (2) Book was
not published this year, but it will probably be
issued early in 1939... .W.K.: No railways are
being constructed in Queensland at present.
J.E.H.: (1) Rate of M.L. customs duty
chargeable on a bicycle entitled to admission
under the British preferential tariff is 10 p.c.
ad valorem. (2) Sea freight to Auckland from
Sydney is Bs. 3d. if it accompanies passenger
or 13s. 9d. if unaccompanied. A bicycle cannot
be carried in an American vessel.


#tiossings are
dangerous...
m
m
I
There are no crossing cords (wefts)
to cause dangerous wear
from heat and friction in
DUNLOP
Weftless cord*
tyres
Weftless Cord is exclusive to Dunlop interests in Australia.
Ensure INSIDE SAFETY too!
fit \
DUNLOP BLACK MOULDED TUBES
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD., (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Casing construction of ordinary-
tyres. Notice how threads (wefts)
cross casing cords.
Weftless Cord Casing: All Cords
run parallel, completely encased
in rubber.
r///////////////////////////M
F. 509-30
A MIXED GRILL.
“T.”: “Cavalcade,” one of those orna-
ments of the New Journalism whose ‘ sen-
sations” are cabled to Australia, has been
socked for substantial damages. It
printed a signed general indictment, and,
after looking up a street directory, attri-
buted it to a retired admiral, prefixing
his title. Though the retired admiral
replied indignantly that he had never
written any such stuff, the paper per-
mitted another correspondent to com-
ment. An enlightening example of the
methods of the New Journalism.
* * * *
“K. 8.”: Buses are a useful means of
transport in Palestine ; but according to
Dr. Sylvia Young, of Melbourne, now
on her way back to the Holy Land,
strangers never get quite used to see-
ing charabancs with “Bethlehem” or
“Jerusalem” in both Roman and Arabic
lettering. Dr. Young says that the Arab
women who work in the fields do not
cover their faces, but those in the towns
are always veiled if they are Mohamme-
dans. Many of the wealthy Mohamme-
dan women attend social functions such
as Government House parties in Euro-
pean clothes, but wearing veils of trans-
parent black chiffon. The Christian
Arabs have even a better time: their
faces are uncovered, they may wear Paris
hats, and those with influential or wealthy
fathers or husbands regularly attend tea-
dances at the King David Hotel.
* * * *
“Morehead”: Last year I delivered
about a dozen lectures on Australian
literature before an assortment of Syd-
ney societies. There invariably jumped
to their feet after the subject was thrown
open for discussion: (1) Earnest young
man with red tie who wanted to start a
Trotsky-Stalin argument; (2) elderly
gentleman who spoke for quarter of an
hour on the “good old days” ; (3) matron
who would enter into a rapturous descrip-
tion of her last trip abroad; and (4)
spinster who deplored the manners of
the Australian male. It never seemed
to occur to the chairman that none of
the speakers had anything to say relevant
to the subject of my speech. This year
I have doubled my lecturing fee.
* * * *
“Mere”: Lands confiscated from
natives after the Maori Wars are still
the cause of bad feeling in M.L., and
there has lately been a fresh conference
about them between the Maoris and the
Lands Minister. When the lands were
confiscated, payment of compensation in
the form of perpetual rent was arranged
in many cases, but this, though generous
enough, was no good to Hori, to whom
the actual possession of land is a psycho-
logical necessity ; many of the natives
were so incensed that up to the present
date they have refused to accept the com-
pensation. I struck one case of an old
Maori woman in South Taranaki who,
after holdjng out for 50 years, was forced
by the depression to capitulate,, and
claimed —and got—a fabulous sum in
back rent. Others in the same district
are still refusing to accept the pakeha’s
money.
* H* *
Dividends paid by Westralian gold-
mining cos. in 1937 totalled £1,213,154,
compared with £1,109,219 in 1936. It is
over 25 years since the 1937 distribution
was equalled.
* * * *
“Plum Kelly”: That dignitary of the
Post and Telegraph Department who re-
cently told the world that Australia has
the best letter-sorting service in the uni-
verse ought to take a screw at what we
get in our S.Q. locality in the way of
roadside delivery. The mail-contractor
is a prosperous storekeeper who de-
putes the work to his 18-year-old son, a
nice lad, but temperamental. When
young Bill gets a shine on a damsel, as
he does every month or so, he goes all
over woozy, and the unromantic detail
of whose mail goes into whose box
affects him not at all. Most of us do
what we can to adjust mis-deliveries, but
it’s difficult at times over six miles of
bush mountain road.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An odd four-sided railways
argument —Commonwealth and three
States interested —is proceeding, with
Adelaide as its centre. The Perth-to-
Mel bourne journey formerly treated
Adelaide as just a dinnner stop, but the
new and shortened Port Augusta line
gives travellers from about' midday in
that city until the 6.35 daily express
leaves for Melbourne. The local busi-
ness people say “Why not?”—but some
through passengers object to the delay.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
N ° n ° tlce Except °J a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
A-S.: W0011y.... M.C.: Familiar miracle.
■ Tour mountains are sugarloaves.
....WH.M.: Dustman’s biting it R.G.H.:
Read Blunden’s “Water Moment”; yours is a
bit too watery... .G.P.: Mine’s yours again....
C. : Too literary... .M.S.P.: “Passion” not
for these chaste pages... .C.K.: “Westward
Bound is only too true 1.M.: “Smoke,”
but no fire... .D.C.: No punch in that lot.
... .R.M.0’8.: Sorry you ate half a grub, but
why send us a half-pie poem of the rest of
it? T.T.R.: Shrank from the fangs of
“mirth-mouthed eternity” B.B.: “Austral
Bards”? “Zephyrs”? We wot them not
W.N.: Pleasant, but pale R.D.T.: All the
fruit has been picked from that bush long ago.
. ...P.L.S. and C.T.Y.: Have ordered tomb-
stones... .M. 8.5.: Whatever caused you to
suppose we need fairy stories?.. .8.F.5.: Long-
winded speeches cramp a short story as surely
as do flowery descriptions J.R.W.: Lunacy
is not a subject for humor R.P.L.: Find
something to write about, then try us again.
... ..F.T.1.: Dispatched in haste G.T.C.: A
six-page letter and a four-page yarn. Out!
F.L.T.: Suspense was provided only by
absence of the last pages F.A.T.: Slush
R.P.Y.: Idea fairish, treatment poor
D. : First contribution to the autumn sur-
feit of bellerdrammer T.N.F.: Piffle
R.S.T.: There was no need to tell us that that
was written 20 years ago H.D.C.: Even
the office boy rejected it after reading the first
page... .M.S.T.: Quite fair, but far too long.
. ...S.L.M.: We’re sick and tired of returning
corpses of prospectors who died in the desert.
. ...C.V.T.: Cut the first three pages and try
a daily R.C.F.: A flapper mag. should
lap up both... .F.R.W.: There wouldn’t be
much of that left after the weak spots were
eliminated... .L.D.: “Exposure” needed better
development... .N.C.P.: Not interested in
“Breeding Mice for Money” D.R.M.: For
the 8,695,437 th time, we never knowingly use
a yarn that has been already published any-
where... .8.H.5.: Raised a laugh here and
there, but it’s too slight G.L.C.: Nearer.
....J.F.V.: Try your hand at something less
gloomy... .F.N.T.: Went as far as a second
reading; finish on a brighter note or try a
daily... .H.D.8.: Animal yarns have to be
very good to attract any attention.. . .T.Z.A.:
Nothing fresh in that batch 5.W.8.: Fail
to see the connection between Nordic folk-
The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
tales and a “rousing epic of Australian out-
doors”... .T.P.S.: Why tell the yarn back-
wards? ... .S.T.: And why tell that one at all?
. ...R.P.S.: Further contributions should send
us running for cover D.S., G.H.T., L.D.C.
and P. 8.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC lAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.M.P.: What made you think we had
hanging space for the Canon? C. 8.5.: Any
sideshow would snap up those freaks... .D.L.:
Pity you can’t draw any better; your ideas
have something in them S.S.: Growing
very weary of that posthole joke J.T.: It
wasn’t worth the trip south G.R.: Fact
that you’re ambidextrous makes you a double
menace to art editors H.T.: You can’t
tempt us with those scrawny females... .J.M.:
Might place it in an autograph book some-
where G.W.: A drab bunch A.N.: You
can start digging the grave, the drawing is dead.
. ...8.R.: No admiration for the spider webs.
. ...J.M.M.: A faint gleam of promise amoijg
the pen drawings E.M.:.Not the week’s
worst, but perilously close to it N.C.:
Anatomical details are wrong and the humor
suffers from malnutrition E.R.A.: An
American magazine published much the same
gag recently... .L.R.: Sketches are amateur-
ish as yet, but lessons should set you on your
feet... .P.G.: “Split in the Labor Party” car-
toon is an overlarge and dreary effort....
H.T.W.: The lady makes a sour remark, the
gent, says “Nuts,” and you call the whole a
joke. Begone! ... .R.F.: We could name a
hundred and one reasons for rejection, but one
will suffice —the gent.’s feet C.W.: Admire
your patriotic fervor, but not your draughts-
manship L.S.: Why is he pulling the boat
the wrong way? D.N.: Lopsided figures built
from an untidy mass of niggling scratches
G.S.A.: Can’t place the fat old lady floating
around the top of the mountain P.H.:
When you learn to make your figures a little
less stilted you’ll score O J.: Capital and
Labor see-saw gag has had its day J.F.:
Mary looks like a Harlem belle and Jacky
like a stray from Zululand... .E.A.P.: Refused
admittance to stage Irishman with balloon tied
to his lips... .H. 8.: That’s stale news....
F.M.: Don’t submit faint pencil drawings
done on colored letter paper... .H.C.: Make
gags terser and brighter and drawings less
harsh... .A.J.F.: At the moment you’re merely
making paper boomerangs S.H.: Joke was
on duty in the late ’nineties... .K.G.: Chief
fault is a tendency to overcrowd drawings....
R.C.L.: Bad drawing takes the eye away from
what should be the focus of interest N.Q.:
It got within one rung of the top of the ladder.
....F.C.: An inky mess.


M
iMMH;
CV-jiii'ii |;i| iliiiiijii! *;i] ••':!::•
t . * •• •••.*. kVA.-. -V. \'s/fA//r.-.■.-.■A-eii --.-.•. .i'iV£j
. l ;
r "'■'
&15f
&JP
*d§
f {'W && y\
i
f h f/k Jg\ .
Mrrl| 1
■Z^rfa f * siSnl
Jla
gsK^!»
>'<-r*vr!-f
y
i
|f J&jSL j j
#iife|i
4 SCI
i-j v x
/*
y"
: r
>.•*-; « A
>
\ixr.
&
y§P
ijljmWliM*!
•••--
AX
A
HI
■
■ms
JJasneis
(P c Collums
X UaisAy/s-
Distributors for the House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - -
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. -
- Fremantle
- - - Hobart
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
MARCH ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
Foreign Affairs and the Investor
N.Z.’s New Tariff
Investment Prospects
What to Buy and Sell
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED .
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
IV.
The Lord Mayor was out of town,
and his place as chairman was taken by
the senior alderman present, Mr.
Hammer, who had himself been Lord
Mayor.
Mr. Hammer* was in the butter trade,
and owned shares in a line of coastal
steamers. He was not liked by the Labor
aldermen, and his opening remarks were
interrupted from that quarter.
“Rotten ole boats!” said Alderman
Bill.
“Order! ”
“Rotten ole boats!” Alderman Bill re-
peated. “Leaky ole tubs! But insured
to the lasht barnacle—l mean binnacle.
Or do I? Ish’t binnacle or —hie—bar-
nacle, Larry?”
“Dry up!” said Alderman Larry.
“Are you referring to the steamers in
which I have the honor to be interested?”
asked the chairman with dignity.
“Course I am!” Alderman Bill re-
joined. “Rotten ole boats. Leaky ole
tubs. Not fit to drown a cat in. But
insured for thoushand per shent. more’n
they’re worth, eh? Betcha life!
“Order! ” said the chairman with
edifying composure. “The beer’s talk-
ing. Let us get on with the business.”
The Town Clerk rose to read a report
in the manner of a person who must read
something or burst. An elderly Eng-
lishman of full habit, he had a magnifi-
cent disdain for monosyllables and short
sentences. Before he came to Australia
he had mastered the art of making
minnows talk like whales.
There had, it seemed, been “difficulties
of an administrative character with cer-
tain Licensed Hawkers of fruit, vege-
tables and fish.” Not all the Licensed
Hawkers by any means: “a more reason-
able section,” the Town Clerk boomed,
“clearly evinced their predilection for
order, regularity and absolute fair play
all round.
“Their action was all the more recog-
nisable and appreciated from the fact
that, as a section, those comprising it very
soon realised that, in colloquial lan-
guage, my bark was worse than my bite,
and that it was my earnest endeavor to
inspire a spirit of confidence and reliance
on my actions in letting them see that all
were treated alike and that no sugges-
tion of favoritism or partiality in the
allocation of stands, or treatment gener-
ally, or any matter connected there-
with” —
“Whasat?” asked Alderman Bill.
“Or any matter connected therewith,”
the Town Clerk repeated, “would be per-
mitted under any circumstances or con-
ditions.”
“You couldn’t get half of that off your
chest, ‘Bugwhiskers’! ” Alderman Larry
interposed.
“Bugwhiskers,” an independent aider-
man, smiled feebly through his beard
and the fragments of lunch which
adhered to it.
“On the other hand,” the Town Clerk
went on, “there was at the same time a
distinct manifestation of strong and most
determined, even factious, unruly, dis-
orderly and most unreasonable opposi-
tion—opposition degenerating on occa-
sions into extreme license, bordering on
larrikinism—on the part of the more
noisy, objectionable and extremely dis-
gruntled hooligan section. This opposi-
tion at times on the part of a section of
the barrowmen, liberally endowed with
disturbing elements and seeds of disorder,
and whom —who, I should say—l must
admit occasioned considerable trouble
and gave cause for incessant worry, tried
by every means possible to break down
the system and enable the whole of the
barrowmen to ply their calling without
let or hindrance, at their own sweet will,
and without the slightest vestige of con-
trol, coming and going when they liked,
doing just what they pleased, throughout
the city, this determination being of
such a pronounced character as to justify
the most extreme measures being taken
by me to preserve order and maintain
regularity. In this connection”
“Rotten ole boats!” said Alderman
Bill.
“In this connection,” the Town Clerk
proceeded, “having, it may be, implied,
but not direct, plenary authoritative
powers from the Council, I unhesitatingly
took the risk, and cancelled and withdrew
licenses for misconduct, for disorder, for
breaches of agreement, for breaches of
various regulations, for personation, for
misappropriating allotted stands, for ob-
taining licenses by misrepresentation and
fraud, for making false declarations, for
giving false addresses, for fraudulently
taking part in the ballot, for using threat-
ening, abusive, filthy and obscene lan-
guage, for wilfully inciting to disturb-
ance and disorder, for improperly inter-
fering with officers in the discharge of
their duties, for selling unsound fruit, for
fraud in delivering less quantity than
advertised, and for many other pertinent
reasons, equally sound and tenable ; and
when these individuals perceived, and,
after much tribulation on my part, actu-
ally realised, that I would not temporise
and that I not only cautioned, threatened
and reprimanded, but was prepared to
take, and actually did take, drastic action
at a minute’s notice, when necessary,
without delay or parley, the disturbing
and discontented opposition ceased for
the time being.”
Here the Town Clerk stopped to lay
in a fresh supply of free air, and Aider-
man Bill hailed a member of the audi-
ence who had just come in, addressing
him in a stage whisper as a silly ole
natural child.
“Order!” said the chairman.
“Whassup?” asked Alderman Bill.
“Can’t one bloke talk to another in a
friendly way?”
“The opposition, however, it was fre-
quently made apparent, only slumbered,”
the Town Clerk proceeded, gazing stonily
at Alderman Bill.
“It was quite ready to break out in
open hostility and revolt against control
and regulation at any sign or suggestion of
weakness or indecision on my part beijtig
manifested. It was scarcely necessary
for me to say that should I have per-
mitted this to occur, in the absence of
firm control and inflexible will, disin-
tegration would speedily have followed
and the whole fabric which had been
carefully built up to the position it had
attained by sheer force of will-power
would inevitably be brought to the
ground, and the last state might, and in
all probability would, be worse than the
first.”
“Going to put all that in your annual
report?” Alderman Larry inquired.
The Town Clerk paused again till he
had recovered his breath. Then he said:
“In conformity with established custom,
and in accordance with the general in-
structions issued and the specified un-
restricted authority directly conferred by
Council under resolution, in terms of a
minute issued and adopted by Council
at the instance of the Hon. Alderman
Woggle, M.L.C., when Lord Mayor, with
regard to absolute freedom of analysis,
criticism, comment and observation being
vested in and exercised by the Town
Clerk under certain defined circumstances
and conditions, I certainly propose to
do so.” And he did.
“Is that your great speaker?” Molly
whispered.
“Ho,” Terry replied ; “but he’s a bit
of a wonder, isn’t he, the old boy? No ;
my speaker’s Alderman Dan. You’ve
seen his portrait in the papers, haven’t
you? That’s him getting up now.”
Alderman Dan was a much-sought-
after man. He was a member of Parlia-
ment as well as a city father; and he
was an agent of sorts and a recognised
after-dinner speaker.
The cares of business and politics sat
lightly on his forehead. On Coliseum
nights he was invariably to be seen in a
ringside seat smoking the fattest cigar
that money could buy.
Alderman Dan had eloquence of a sort
that was going out of fashion, and a
prodigious stock of quotations. His
enemies said he could talk the leg off an
iron pot, his friends that he could charm
a bird from a bush. They agreed on
only one point—that in moments of ex-
citement or exertion he sweated pro-
fusely.
“The old windbag has taken a lot of
me toime,” he whispered to Alderman
Larry, “but Oi’ll do me best.”
A Council committee had recom-
mended the cancellation of a shop license
issued to a man who sold birds and
animals, and Alderman Dan rose to
move that the recommendation should
be adopted.
The bird-animal shop was, it seemed,
next door to a hotel, and had become a
nuisance. The squawks and screams and
barks were so persistent and so annoying
that habitues of the beershop could no
longer drink in comfort. But that was
not all, though, to minds not cankered
with prejudice against the toiling masses,
it was enough.
“The right of the workers, the creators
of all wealth, to enjoy their beer in the
contemplative fashion of which the poet
sings is sacred,” Alderman Dan thun-
dered, “and it is one of those rights that
I will champion as long as I have tongue
to utter the thoughts that arise in me.
“But I demand not only justice but
mercy. Mercy for the caged cockatoo,
the imprisoned parrot, the faithful Irish
terrier chained as Prometheus was
chained to his rock. Friends of man all,
yet condemned to servitude —blasted for
the sins of capitalism.
“It was not always so. The Egyptians
worshipped cats. The Romans remem-
bered to the last day of their Empire that
geese had saved the Capitol.”
“Hear, hear!” said Alderman Mick.
“It has been well said,” Alderman Dan
proceeded, “that the Puritans hated bear-
baiting, not because it was cruel to the
bear, but because it gave pleasure to the
spectators. Labor is different. Labor
loves birds”
“Boiled or roasted?” asked a Reformer.
“Labor loves birds and beasts because
a fellow-feeling draws it to them. The
worker, his daily task done, repairs to the
hotel —I forget its name —which adjoins
this licensed haunt of inhumanity. A
foaming pint is laid before him. What
makes him pause when that well-earned
pint is half-way to his mouth? The cry
of a feathered creature in torment. The
howl of a four-footed thing in agony.
It withers his heart; it withers moine
here and now.


FRIENDS MARVEL AT
HER JFIGURE
Since She Lost 45 lbs.
of Unwanted Fat
Less than a year ago this woman weighed
12 stone 10 lbs. But she found a way to get
rid of her ugly fat —yes, 45 lbs. of it —and get’
back her girlish vigour. Here is her letter:
“After giving Kruschen Salts a very good
trial, I take this opportunity to tell you the
way in which it has restored to me the good
health I used to enjoy as a girl. For many
years I was a victim of rheumatism, resulting
in a lot of expense for various treatments. I
also put on weight. Less than 12 months ago
I was 12 stone 10 lbs. Now I am down to 9
stone 7 lbs., and all my friends marvel at my
figure. They say, ‘You must have that
Kruschen feeling,’ and I reply ‘That is just
what I have got, for I have taken Kruschen in
real earnest and now I would not be without
it.’ ” —(Mrs.) E.M.G.
Kruschen is a saline —not a drug; it is an
ideal blend of mineral salts found in the
aperient waters of those European Spas which
have been resorted to from time immemorial
for the relief of various ailments, including
obesity.
■
THE
'GARVAN'
All-over
Pigskin
Saddle,
£l6/19/6
(MOUNTED)
The Panel is leather-
lined.
N.S.W. Freight Paid
for Cash with Order.
IMPERIAL RUBBER
AND GOLD, OR
SILVER - MOUNTED
SHOW HARNESS.
Write for Full
Particulars.
WALTHER & STEVENSON Pty. Ltd.
395 George Street, Sydney.
tflLufijfayoiiackmm
Familiar words to-day—familiar because people have found
that a cheque account provides the most efficient and con-
venient method of paying accounts.
Tradesmen, salaried men, housewives—in fact people in all
walks of life—find that to pay by cheque is just as convenient
for them as it is for large business organisations.
You can transact your business most safely and conveniently
by cheque . . . and it is a simple matter to open a cheque
account at the Head Office or any branch of this Bank.
Interest-bearing Fixed Deposits from £5 and upwards are
also accepted.
Rural Bank
9 f NSW SOUTH WALES
Head Office : MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners :
C. R. McKerihan (President), H. Rogers, P. Kearns.
11l
• •
m
mm
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
“Deputy-Lord Mayor and fellow-alder-
men of the City of Sydney, this musi
not be. You shall not press down on the
brow of Labor this crown of thorns.
You shall not crucify the dumb creation
upon a cross of gold.
“To us, Deputy-Lord Mayor and
fellow-aldermen, the birds and beasts in
this den of infamy next door to the hotel
whose name I cannot remember, these
dogs and budgerigars and cockatoos cry
‘Give us liberty or give us death.’ ”
“I move the adoption of the com-
mittee’s recommendation that the license
be cancelled,” said Alderman Mike.
“You’ll second it, won’t you, ‘Bug-
whiskers’?” asked Alderman Larry.
“Bugwhiskers” seconded it, and his
vote decided the matter. Exit the bird-
and-animal man.
“There’s one of the aldermen winking
at us,” said Molly. “Now he’s beckon-
ing. It must be you he wants.”
“It’s Alderman Larry,” Terry replied.
“He’s getting up and looking round.
Mind if I leave you for a couple of
minutes and see what he wants? He’s
a pretty big man in the Movement.”
“Go ahead,” said Molly.
Alderman Larry greeted Terry cor-
dially and led the way to a cosy room
in which an ancient orderly in the uni-
form of the Solomon Islands artillery
stood guarding a table laden with bottles
and glasses. A stout man sat in one
of the comfortable chairs.
“Introjuce him,” said Larry, address-
ing the orderly and motioning to Terry.
“I don’t need to be introduced to
Mart,” said Terry with a grin. “How’s
things, Mart?”
“It’s only a manner of speaking,”
Alderman Larry explained. “It means
‘Have what you like—everything’s on
the house.’ But meet Mr. Mullaney,
Terry. Mr. Mullaney; Mr. Mac Sherry.
Mr. Mullaney’s a generous supporter of
the Movement, and believes in every
plank of the platform, the nationalisation
of the liquor traffic especially.”
“If it’s Guvvernmint pubs ye mane,”
replied Mr. Mullaney, “Oi dawn’t. Back-
in’ the honesty of a mahn behoind a
beer-ingine. Run along wid yez! ”
“I’ll have to run along,” Alderman
Larry said, “but Mart’ll look after you
both. Stay as long as you like and drink
as mach as you like—not that Terry’ll
drink much, unless he’s changed.”
“Glad t’ know yez, Terry,” said Mr.
Mullaney, “and Oi’ll be deloighted t’ see
yez anny toime ye loike t’ call. Oi own
the Sligo Cow, that’s next door to that
parrot-an’-puppy joint, an’ good riddance
to it; and me sister has the loicense.
Wasn’t it a gr-rand spache Alderman Dan
made about them bir-rds and bastes?
Worth a hundred o’ anny mahn’s
money ; yis, or anny woman’s.”
Terry joined the Coliseum staff and
became a member of the Clerks’ Union.
The Clerks’ Union seemed rather
short of clerks, but it had plenty of
agents and lawyers. It was a refuge for
gentlemen who wanted to be in the
Movement but couldn’t qualify for
membership of any craft organisation
or of the A.W.U.
One of the few members who never
missed a meeting was a large man with
a thin, high-pitched voice which had a
tendency to become squeaky. He was a
house-agent who had got in for a subur-
ban division at the last Assembly elec-
tion. Regularly as he attended, he con-
tributed little to the discussions, rarely
smiled and never responded when some
comrade suggested that the meeting
should wind up by “selling a horse.”
A bold spirit once referred to him
as “Jack.” This liberty was received by
Mr. J. D. Bang with such obvious dis-
favor that it was never repeated.
Mr. Bang’s forte was said to be finance.
Another M.L.A. who belonged to the
Clerks’ Union was little Paddy Moyni-
han, the manufacturer. Being rich and
generous with his gifts to the Cause, Mr.
Moynihan was treated with great defer-
ence by Mr. J. D. Bang and the other
Clerks —all except Joe Merrilees. Joe
Merrilees was an evolutionary socialist,
and he sometimes muttered, though never
in the presence of Mr. Moynihan or Mr.
Bang, that the Movement was getting too
damned borjoice, and that if he had
his way he’d bundle all the bosses out
of it.
A day was to come when Mr. Moyni-
han and Mr. Bang would fall out and
engage in furious competition for the
same seat. For the present they agreed
well enough, and, though the Labor Gov-
ernment vvas finding the going somewhat
difficult, it felt that it could rely upon
their votes.
And on a Sunday afternoon in the
Domain, that fairest of settings for
safety valves, Terry made his first public
speech.
The thing had been arranged with a
good-natured veteran of the Movement,
Jack Burke. On that Sunday afternoon,
Jack Burke was to be chairman on the
Labor platform in the Domain, and at a
suitable moment he was to recognise
Terry in the crowd and invite him to say
a few words.
“Nothing flowery, lad,” Comrade
Burke counselled. “Just something brief
and to the point. Plain words and short
sentences is the secret of public speak-
ing as I understand it. ‘lf you’ve got a
thing to say, say it —don’t' take half a
day.’ ’Twas a writer’s advice to writers,
Terry, but it applies equally to speakers ;
and it’s me that’s found it good.”
Jack Burke was very religious ; so de-
voted to Mother Church in fact' that he
couldn’t keep his devotion out of his
oratory, which his party sometimes found
embarrassing. Politics and pugilism were
his secular enthusiasms. He knew all the
Coliseum boxers personally, even the pre-
liminary boys, and had struck up a great
friendship with Jimmy Carrie, the re-
cently-arrived American —as handsome a
fellow as ever stepped into a ring but
hopelessly improvident. Jack, an ageing
bachelor, was cared for by two sisters
who thought him the greatest man in the
world.
In Sydney autumn is the loveliest of
the seasons, and to Molly, who had
accompanied him to the Domain, Terry
remarked nervously on the beauty of the
day. Looking west beyond the Labor
platform he caught sight of St. Mary’s
Cathedral, towering above trees. Look-
ing north, he received enchanting im-
pressions of the harbor, though the
Moreton Bay figs in that quarter were
thick, and over the road which they
flanked lay the Botanic Gardens.
Mention of his name brought his wan-
dering gaze back to the Labor platform.
Jack Burke had pronounced it.
“Terry Mac Sherry, the great middle-
weight!” said Jack Burke. “I see him
down there among the people, where he
should be. Terry I know for a good
unionist and a good Labor man ; and
Labor needs the services of all its sons in
the fight for social justice and the
emancipation of those who toil. I am
speaking to Terry Mac Sherry. Come up,
Terry, on this platform—the platform of
the grand old Labor party —and pro-
claim the faith that is in ye.”
“Yes, come on, Terry! ” others shouted.
Others again cried “Hear, hear” ; and
there was vigorous handclapping.
Thus encouraged, Terry made his way
to the platform, where the sight of him
brought the heartiest round of applause
that had been heard that day.
Jack Burke introduced him, and
whispered, as Terry moved forward,
“Remember, lad ; simple words and short
sentences.”
“Mr. Chairman and fellow-workers.”
That was easy, but what would he say
next? Good God, he had stagefright!
“Mr. Chairman and fellow-workers.”
Again the words wouldn’t come.
“Bog into the Liberals, Terry,” shouted
a sympathiser. “Lead with the left' and
cross with the right.”
“When are you going to fight Durkin
again, Terry?”
He’d answer that and then, perhaps,
the words would come
“Fight Durkin again, you say? Well,
I don’t know about that —Durkin’d be
terribly hard to beat. But I wouldn’t
mind having a go at a Liberal johnnie.”
This brought a laugh ; and the sen-
tences began to form in his flustered
brain. He said his glovefighting days
were over; but there were other ways
of fighting, and other fellows who de-
served punishment more than the boys
who ducked between the ropes at the
Coliseum. They were the Liberals, as the
fellow-worker in the audience had said,
and the capitalists, who kept the Liberals
going, and all those who lorded it over
the masses and were too big for their
boots. Yes, it was true he was a union-
ist and a Laborite, as Mr. Burke said,
and he was going into the fight for Labor
with all his heart and soul. And he
would be in that fight till 10 was counted
over him by the Referee whose decisions
nobody could ever dispute. He had heard
that the Americans had a motto, “My
Country, Right or Wrong.” His motto
was “Labor every time.”
“Good on y’, lad. ‘Labuh ev’ry
toime.’ ”
“Yes, that’s it, Terry—‘Labuh ev’ry
toime! ’ ”
Jack Burke was delighted, and Terry
became a frequent speaker in the
Domain.
(To be continued .)


ELEGANT EXTRACTS
CESAR’S WIFE!
Black suede bag, English born, 63/-.
— Ad. in “S. M. Herald” (Sydney).
OUR VERSATILE DON
Like nearly all of us, Don feels a bit
of a grudge against nature ; he would
like to be bigger than he is. You know
how it is; brunettes wish they were
blondes, people with blue eyes wish that
they had brown eyes. (Don is a blue-
eyed blonde.)
—“Daily Telegraph” (Sydney)
CHARACTERISTIC
It is said that when in office Mr. Eden
worked 16 hours a day. A story is told
that when he was married to Helen,
daughter of Sir Gervasse Beckett, who is
associated by marriage with the Earl of
Warwick, his young bride had to forego
a honeymoon because her husband had
plunged into some political project that
he would not, or could not, let go. That
is characteristic of him.
—“ Courier-Mail ” {Brisbane).
HOBART TURNS
Fears already have been expressed
that one international celebrity will not
come to Tasmania this year because of
the reputation of our halls and the re-
semblance of their atmosphere to our
winter climate. That is not surprising
when one remembers that at times audi-
ences have been so desperately cold they
have scarcely been able to pay attention
to what was being played or sung.
It is not going too far to say that one
of the needs of Hobart is a new and
modernly-equipped concert hall.
—“ Mercury ” {Hobart).
O TEMPORA
Lieut.-General Shunroku Hata, who is
regarded as a bitter diplomat, and able
to deal with foreign representatives more
satisfactorily, will replace General Matsui.
—“ Sun” {Sydney).
WE STAND ALONE
Criticism of Australians as non-intel-
lectual aroused Alderman Farrell (Labor)
to protest at yesterday’s meeting of the
City Council.
“It is only a remark, but it is offen-
sive,” he said. “Why, we stand alone as
intellectuals.”
—“Daily Telegraph” (Sydney).
EARLY SCRATCHINGS
We agree with “Socrates,” although
we are sorry for the ancient philosopher
whose name is so basely misused, that
some people are getting emancipated;
that there are parasites clinging to the
back of the labor movement, but con-
sole ourselves that shortly they will be
deposited back in the waste-paper baskets
of the capitalist press where they belong.
, — “Workers’ Weekly” (Sydney).
DIGGERS’ CONCERT
A uniformed policeman prevented
Arnie Hartman, the American crooner,
from singing a song in the Randwick
Soldiers’ Memorial Hall.
Hartman announced that he would sing
“Every Little Doggy Has His Day.”
Before the song began, a policeman
walked from the back of the hall and
said he could not sing it, because it was
not a classical or sacred song.
—“Daily Telegraph” (Sydney).
SOUNDS GOOD TO US
I have been keeping company with a
girl for six years, and engaged to her for
two. She has just returned from a fort-
night at Terrigal, and when I met her on
the station the night she returned she
would not even kiss me. She said she
had found another. What can I do? I
am broken-hearted. Is Terrigal a bad
place?— Letter in “Telegraph” (Sydney).
NOW, LISSEN, MARIE
Sunday pleasures, parental indifference,
and the decline in birthrate were factors
contributing to the serious reduction in
juvenile church attendances, stated a re-
port at the Methodist Conference.
— “Sun” (Sydney).
TRUTH'S STAR BOARDER
Lang has quarrelled with his own
Ministers ; his own fellow-Labor mem-
bers in Parliament; has disrupted two
Labor Governments, and at this moment
has provoked such discord in the branches
and the unions as to make all earnest-
minded workers wish him down at the
bottom of the well. — “Labor Daily” (Syd-
ney), turning on its late joss.
YOUR TURN, DAVE
“I think I can claim that Paxton is the
most travelled rabbit in the world,” said
Mrs. Bootle-Wilbraham yesterday. “My
friends told me that I would not be
popular bringing a rabbit to Australia.
But I could not think of coming without
my pet. He is house-trained, and,
although he has his own hutch in the
cabin, he mostly runs free, and follows
me around the cabin. I am very fond
of animals, and find rabbits are great
company.”
— “S. M. Herald” (Sydney).
EXODUS
A few extremists would have the whole
of New Zealand one big farm, forgetting
that it would as a result support per-
haps only about half a million people.
The remainder of the population could
then be asked to leave the country. —
Manufacturers’ Federation letter in
“Dominion” (M.L.).
QUALITIES OF A DIPLOMAT
Even the United States, for years
openly doubtful of British sincerity, be-
gan to warm towards the Old Country.
They liked Eden. They approved the cut
of his clothes and the twinkle in his eye.
—Editor of “Sunday Sun” (Sydney).
“OUR WAR CORRESPONDENT”
A war between two tribes in New
Guinea last year was stopped by a bull-
terrier. The dog belonged to Michael
Leahy, goldminer. Both were watching
the battle. Four arrows whizzed past
Leahy’s head. The bull-terrier decided
that the party was getting rough and
dashed into the thick of the .fight, upset-
ting the natives by throwing his heavy
body against their legs. So many men
fell that the attacking party withdrew.
—“Sunday Sun’’ (Sydney).
JSEFUL
MOSCOW.
Eleven veterinary workers were sen-
tenced to death at Ordzhonikidze for
having caused the death of 90,000 cattle
since 1932 by spreading typhus bacilli,
resulting in the mass poisoning of civilians
and soldiers.
Two others had their death sentences
commuted to 25 years’ imprisonment be-
cause of their “full confession and the
fact that they can still be useful as
specialists.”—“ Advertiser” (Adelaide).
IMPULSE (Male)
Robinson is a good natural cricketer,
and most interesting to watch. He is
full of the primitive impulses of life.
—“Daily Telegraph” (Sydney).
IMPULSE (Female)
Two stranded girls, aged 19 and 20,
who followed the Louisville from Mel-
bourne, have been temporarily lodged by
the Adelaide women police in a home.
A Sydney youth, aged 19, who camped
at Outer Harbor for two days in a fruit-
less search for his sister, aged 17, and an-
other girl, aged 20, has reported to the
police that the three had “hitch-hiked”
hundreds of miles, following the Louis-
ville to Melbourne, and that he had come
on to Adelaide, thinking that the girls
had done 50....
One of the Melbourne girls, who is en-
gaged to a young man in Melbourne,
was at a loss to explain her impulse to
follow the cruiser.
— “S. M. Herald” (Sydney).
The Rum Regiment
(BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.)
THE Government of New South
Wales which succeeded that of Cap-
tain Phillip was the quaintest this
country has known. Major Francis
Grose has the distinction of having raised
a body of troops quite unique not only
among the early garrisons of Australia
but in the whole story of the British
army.
He got £3 a head for every recruit,
and was in no way fussy as to their ante-
cedents. Any sort of man who could
pass the doctors was good enough for
Major Grose, and the Major succeeded
in collecting as diverse a mob of gaol-
birds as has ever been got together. They
were almost to a man “King’s bad bar-
gains,” of a sort that Britain was fortu-
nate in getting rid of. The officers, with
a few exceptions, matched the rank and
file, and officers and men succeeded in
the 43 years of the battalion’s existence
in establishing a reputation for the
N.S.W. Corps that has never been
rivalled.
Nevertheless, the Rum Regiment con-
trolled the destinies of Australia between
Phillip’s departure in 1792 and the arrival
of Macquarie at the end of 1809.
It was during Grose’s
as Lieutenant-Governor after Phillip’s
return home that the rich lands of the
Hawkesbury were first occupied. There
were over 400 settlers on the river in
1795, and their farms extended for 30
miles along both banks in the neighbor-
hood of the Green Hills (Windsor).
Grose granted over 10,000 acres to his
friends of the Corps in a couple of years,
and his successor, Lieut.-Colonel Pater-
son, nearly 5000 in nine months. Pater-
son gave every private in the regiment
25 acres—usually sold to their officers,
who soon built up large estates, for a
few gallons of rum.
In the working of these estates Grose
did all he could for his brother-officers.
Ordinary settlers were allowed one or
two convicts, clothed and fed by the Com-
missariat, to develop their land —officers
of the Corps might have a dozen. Not
an acre of country was cleared for public
purposes between Phillip’s departure and
Hunter’s arrival in 1795, nor were public
works of any sort undertaken.
The officers were not, for the most
part, enthusiastic soldiers. They had
usually volunteered for the particular
duty which was the reason for the bat-
talion’s establishment either because they
were in debt or had made their own regi-
ments too hot to hold them, and were
altogether intent upon the pursuit of the
Main Chance. One of the first means
they discovered and exploited in this
direction was the importation of rum
from India, Brazil and the West Indies.
In retailing it they made enormous
profits," selling it at exorbitant prices to
soldiers, and paying with very little of it
for the extra labor of convicts. They
entirely neglected military duties for this
profitable business, and so completely
absorbed in the rum trade was the Mess
of the Corps in 1797 that its members
entered into a mutual agreement neither
to underbuy nor undersell one another.
Every successive Governor after
Phillip tried to check the rum traffic and
the power of the Corps, and each of
them failed. Hunter suggested, that the
N.S.W. garrison should be periodically
relieved, as others on foreign service
were, but his advice wasn’t taken, for
the Mess had friends at court. He tried
to remedy matters by giving licenses to
a limited number of dealers, and by cut-
ting down the amount of spirits allowed
to be annually imported. So the gallant
officers became smugglers. Finally, John
Macarthur, the leader of the military
traders, engineered Hunter’s recall.
Governor King was a stronger man
than Hunter, but the officers of the Corps
were too much for him also. He pre-
vented thousands of gallons from being
landed, but they countered with illicit
stills. He established a Government
brewery at Parramatta in 1804, but it
had little effect on the rum trade. King
was succeeded by Bligh in 1806, who had
been specially chosen to control the
Corps. He did his best, but was as un-
successful as the others, and finally the
Rum Regiment deposed him.
That was the beginning of the end for
the N.S.W. Corps. When Macquarie
arrived he had orders to send the bat-
talion home. Four hundred returned to
England, 300 joined Macquarie’s regi-
ment, the 73rd, and 100 remained as
settlers. A “Veterans’ Company” was
formed out of old soldiers of the regiment
which survived for many years. It did
not close its books until 1833. Those
who returned home were reorganised as
the 102nd Regiment, which was finally
disbanded in the second decade of the
nineteenth century, after an inglorious
career which never included any active
service other than the dispersal of the
convict rising at Castle Hill, near Parra-
matta, in 1804.
Willy-willy.
“Nor’-west”: The day broke hot, the
sky cloudless, but dingy and sullen like
the inside of an unscoured copper
pot. Flies were bad. After midday a
bank of heavy black clouds appeared in
the north. Heat became almost unbear-
able, flies persistent beyond belief.
Towards 4 p.m. the bank of clouds sud-
denly commenced to mount in the sky.
Hurriedly we drove extra pegs for the
tent and built a strong breakwind. Over-
head clouds rolled and billowed like the
legions of darkness. But beneath a dead
hush had fallen —even the flies ceased
to buzz, only continuing their desperate
efforts to crawl into every crevice, living
or dead, for shelter. First came little
puffs, with dead calm between. Then
stronger and stronger until by its roar-
ing we realised that the willy-willy had
arrived. As though plucked from above
by a giant hand the tent went, ripping to
a hundred ribbons in its passing.
Crouched beneath the breakwind we en-
dured the rain that now came pouring
down. Darkness had fallen, so intense
that the world was wrapped in a thick
black blanket —that split for a flashing
second as a giant thunderbolt shattered
the sky. Above the roar'of the rain rose
the raging of the sea scarce a hundred
yards to windward. Visions of a tidal
wave haunted us, but there was nowhere
to seek refuge with visibility limited to
a foot ahead. Water soaked through the
rugs which were our only shelter ; ran in
rivulets down our spines, into our boots,
and out again. We became sodden, inert,
helpless, shivering with the intensity of
the cold. Hour after hour wind roared,
rain crashed down, the sea thundering
above it all. Dawn at last brought relief
—for, after all, it was only a short blow
—a willy-willy on the Exmouth Gulf,
nor’-west Westralia. Measured in the rain
gauge at the not-distant Bullara station
9in. of rain fell that night.


— *
Vw v**V***^»w*v%*'' / '
VV '^ / ' | VVv^AAAy^AAA ,^^
%FOOLISH
FORTIES
Are Sometimes Serious.
When we reach the forty-year mark, many of us are inclined to be
humorous about it. We talk about “the foolish forties,” and refer to ourselves
as the older generation.
Just the same, reaching the half-way mark in life is not funny. Some
people are inclined to try to keep young by doing the foolish things they did
in youth. Others feel melancholy and take little interest in life. A few are
sensible, adjusting their pleasures to their age and enjoying the companion-
ship of their family and friends.
But the great majority, even the sensible few, do not recognise the great
danger of the forties. They realise that they sometimes have little endurance
or energy, that their nights are frequently sleepless, that their complexion is
poor, that they wake feeling tired. But they blame their ailments on
middle age.
They are only partly right. The real probability is that they are slightly
and continually constipated. Their constipation is due to their age—to a
slowing down of physical activity—to altered habits or mode of living—
sometimes to changes in bodily constitution. And the danger is that their
lowered vitality reduces their resistance to serious, or even fatal, diseases and
ailments.
The first essential to health and happiness in the forties is proper
elimination. The number of bowel movements necessary each day varies with
different people, but should not be materially less than in youth. When they
are less, you should act at once. Do not wait until your constipation becomes
chronic.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills afford an excellent relief from middle-age
constipation. They are made entirely of herbs, containing no harsh salts or*
synthetic drugs. You can easily regulate the dosage to your requirements,
with entire safety and freedom from pain or griping.
Try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills when next you feel the symptoms of
constipation. They are more than a good laxative. They stimulate the
digestive organs and assist your system in getting back to normal.
DrJMORSES
k
1
A\ADE IN AUSTRALIA
For Simple Constipation
i
PILLS
and Attendant Ills .
No More Work
Roughened Hands
To keep the hands soft and white
it is essential that they should not be
wetted too frequently. Household
duties of all kinds, to say nothing of
factory work, are detrimental, and
once the hands are thoroughly
roughened it is a difficult matter to
restore the natural softness and
whiteness, and still continue work-
ing. However, with care and atten-
tion a great deal can be done to
prevent an unsightly appearance.
After any hard work they should be
well cleaned with good soap and
warm water, and when thoroughly
dried Mirpil rubbed well into the
skin, repeating the operation two or
three times on each occasion.
Mirpil is also soothing for Sun-
burn, Windburn, After Shaving, and
provides an excellent powder base.
Try rubbing on soles of sore, tired
feet before retiring at night.
Obtainable from all leading
chemists and stores or from The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lapg
Street, Sydney, N.SiW., or 6 Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/6
per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
f
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of ''’he Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and ' New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
so"
cnQ *. V\o^
* %r**j>jy:dt
jt'jr
i & r
<- f * 5 '
t*%£V 0°
~e &e»>
<$ C
S©’
n^ 1 . fiP ■'*’
<ps
#*■
o<
# ss
.• * * 'j o^
* \o 'V^S'V 1
.••V.^rV’ 0


Australian farmers
ALL-AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTS
tr
K.
S'
V'
(W
S\
avfca®-
f.I>A4 —■
BRAND.
\ /-W
“WAR AT AH”
FENCING PRODUCTS
For Complete Satisfaction
Fencing problems are easily solved when you buy from Rylands’ Waratah
range of fencing One hundred per cent. Australian—from the ore
to the fence—they meet the successful farmer’s every need. For the buyer’s
protection every coil of wire and roll of netting bears Rylands’ identification disc.
WIRE NETTING
FENCING WIRE
STAR STEEL FENCE POSTS
HINGED JOINT FENCE
“Waratah” Wire Netting is carefully woven from high-grade wire and hot
galvanised after weaving with pure electrolytic zinc. Supplied in a wide range
of gauges, meshes and widths. Rylands’ “Waratah” Fencing Wire in black or
galvanised finishes is made from selected high-grade B.H.P. Steel. “Waratah”
Star Steel Fence Posts are more economical than wooden posts. A man and
a boy can erect 200 posts in a day. They are fire and ant proof and are
available in a variety of sizes and spacings. “Waratah” Hinged Joint Fence is
particularly suitable for fencing sheep, cattle and pig enclosures. The special
woven construction withstands many conditions which would wreck other fences.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DISTRIBUTORS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Made at Newcastle, N.S.W., from B.H.P. STEEL by
RYLANDS BROTHERS (AUST.) PTY., LTD.
Works, Newcastle, N.S.W. Head Office, 422 Little Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Write for Our Farmer’s
Hand Book—lt’s Free.
RYL AMDS’
STAND
BEHIND
THEIR
PRODUCTS
