

/ST
"NO TNANKSI
n> PATH IP NAVI
A CAPSTAN MILD
O ~*'VJ ££ W i __i
S £*
/
.//*
/
LssJ 1
#?
X
5N
£
ii
\
1 1
JK.
r
v<
!t«
&
>\
I l '/*
y 9
-
11 » v^i
4
* * >
*• <
X \\ \ x
' Vv xO,.®
A golf cup looks nice on a sideboard but a Capstan
Special Mild makes you feel good all over. There never
has been a cigarette at ten for sixpence that had so much
of what it takes to make a perfect smoke. Cool and
mild, smooth and satisfying, Capstan Milds (in the
handsome red packets) are to*day’s best sixpenny worth
of smoking enjoyment.
f *€M£
CAPSTAN Ueeud MILD
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3052.
Wednesday, August 10, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
"ON AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE."
C. Hartley Grattan, Carnegie Fellow in Aus-
tralia he returns to America in September—-has de-
livered a series of lectures to the W.E.A. at Sydney
University, and one of them, “On Australian Litera-
ture, 1788-1938,” is printed in the “Australian
Quarterly.” The treatment is selective rather than
inclusive, but it is interesting as a sample of the cloth
that will go into his forthcoming books on Australia.
He shines as a literary historian, pointing out the
enduring significance of past Australian writers, men
like John Dunmore Lang, William Lane and Daniel
Henry Deniehy, whom Australia is disposed either to
undervalue or entirely neglect. As his survey
approaches the modern scene his opinions become
less acceptable. Here he can never be quite sure of
tuning in to the Australian wave-length.
He says that in thirty years Australia has pro-
duced five poets —O’Dowd, Maurice, Baylebridge,
Brennan and Neilson- —who have “something to say
and can say it efficiently.” He dismisses Hugh
McCrae as a poet “of the purely decorative variety.”
In an essay he wrote in 1927 Grattan likened McCrae
to certain early American poets who fled from the
harsh realities of their days to an imaginative Purple
East. He sticks to that. His comment throughout—
in respect of other writers besides McCrae—indicates
a liking for the direct attack on life. He doesn’t see
that McCrae’s frank and joyous carnality can be
taken to express something essentially Australian.
By implication he won’t allow that the Australian
poet is an heir of the ages and that if his imagination
functions best in a world of myths and ancient heroes
he is as much entitled to them as Australian children
are to Father Christmas. McCrae’s decorative quality
is an aspect of his work, not the whole of it —-it is a
means, not an end —and his validity as an Australian
poet rests on his acceptance by his countrymen.
When Grattan turns to look at fiction in Aus-
tralia he points to something significant in saying,
“Most fiction imported is minor and is, for Austra-
lians, in view of the real and cultivated nostalgia
for England so common in this country, escapist in
character as well.” He places Brent of Bin Bin among
three Australian writers “who do not seem to me to be
minor in relation to Australia’s literary development” ;
the others being Henry Handel Richardson—noted as
outstanding—and Katharine Susannah Prichard.
Without undervaluing the romantic Brent it is to
be suspected that Grattan misses noting a serious
omission from his work. Brent’s earlier books record
nothing of the tentative gropings among the first
generation of native-born for a sense of nationality—
see Collins and Lawson —and the last novel, except for
the figure of an opera bouffe general, fails to record
the effect of the Great War on individuals of the third
generation—serious gaps in work that essays a pano-
ramic sweep from the early days to the 1920’5. (Com-
pare, in respect of this, the anti-romantic Penton.)
Around Katharine Prichard he groups—reserving
individual comment—Kylie Tennant, Dymphna
Cusack, Leonard Mann, Brian Penton, Norman Lind-
say, Dal Stivens, Godfrey Blunden and Xavier Her-
bert as writers who desire “realistically to assess the
Australian scene.” Agreed ; only when, a little later
on, he refers to Australian urban life as “the step-
child of Australian fiction,” the suspicion arises that
he is prepared to overlook a wide disparity of achieve-
ment provided he can endorse the subject matter.
Criticism of the social structure ranks high in his
scale of points.
The urban scene, though not the first love or
Australian novelists, is not a stepchild to the degree
Grattan implies. He says, “If further discrimination
is required, I should say that Jungfrau and A Murder
in Sydney are resolute attempts to deal with aspects
of Australian urban life” —overlooking The Swayne
Family, by Vance Palmer, and Max Flambard, No
Armour and Only the. Morning, by John Dailey, who
was forerunner for most of the others and a biting
satirist as well.
He dismisses Palmer with a mere wave of the hand ;
yet Palmer’s achievement, apart from the intrinsic
interest of his work, is of genuine importance “in rela-
tion to Australia’s literary development.” Palmer’s
easy acceptance of nationality and of his country-
men as readers defined the attitude of the Australian
writer to his subject matter and his public at a time
when many other Australian writers were being ex-
planatory for the benefit of an overseas audience, or
trying to achieve international significance by the
mechanical trick of writing about overseas people
domiciled in Australia. Further, just as Henry Handel
Richardson has set a standard of major achievement
in the absolute sense, Palmer has set a standard of ex-
cellence in sensitiveness, prose style and technical
skill.
M. Barnard Eldershaw’s A House Is Built is only
“staid and competent,” Plaque with Laurel is just
“light and witty.” But its wit is a garnish. It is a
study of brotherhood, and takes off from Lawson’s
doctrine of mateship. What Lawson affirmed with
fervor, Plaque with Laurel subjects to austere inquiry.
The emphasis is tragic. Phillip of Australia, remark-
able for its penetration of Australia’s European genesis,
is noted, but comment is withheld. Of my own work
he says: “He wrote his best book, Man-Shy, before he
became a sophisticate.” I did, but I also wrote my
worst, Forever Morning, at the same time. I was
committed to becoming a sophisticate. Man-Shy
limns the shadow of the “urban scene” advancing
over the earth. Grattan’s scale of points wouldn’t
allow for that.
Christina Stead “has made a series of experiments
which have failed.” That’s disputable in respect of
The Salzburg Tales, at least. Martin Boyd “can write
really witty drawing-room comedies, example, The
Picnic.” Surely Grattan is forgetting The Montforts,
a remarkably solid pudding, and one of the best early-
day novels.
These are some debit entries against Grattan’s
critical capacity ; the credit entries are more numer-
ous. Overriding all is the fact that he has promoted
critical discussion —always a spur to production.
F.D.D.
The Mind of a Communist.
The class war, deliberately calculated to reach
its climax in massacre, is expected and approved in
Marxian theory, so that the preliminary slaughter in
Russia, the terrorism in Italy and Germany and the
horrors of the civil war in Spain are perfectly normal —
according to that theory.
To pre-war intellectuals who guided the Second
International and other “proletarian” organisations,
the tragedy was not that there was bloodshed, but that
the bloodshed failed ; that Communism invariably split
into inept and angry factions, and that, while these
fought and intrigued against each other, reaction,
springing from its own ranks and armed with a varia-
tion of its own doctrines, marched into power.
Mussolini and Stalin, Fascism and Bolshevism are
the tragedy to Angelica Balabanoff in My Life as a
Rebel (Hamish Hamilton). The death of her sister
from starvation after the Russian Revolution is dis-
missed in a sentence, as of no fundamental importance.
Though she knew and worked with Mussolini, Lenin,
Trotsky, Gorki and Stalin, her book is less interesting
as a portrait of those worthies than as a demonstra-
tion of an ideal tainted with violence crashing in
violence, and as a study of the mind of a Russian
intellectual —humanity shut out by inflexible abstrac-
tions.
Personal hatred of Mussolini, expressed in unvary-
ing contempt though she worked with him as a friend
for ten years, is as prominent in the book as her
impersonal love for “the masses.” “Mussolini is the
most despicable man I know,” she says. She first
met him in Lausanne when she was speaking at a
Socialist meeting:
I found my attention distracted throughout the
meeting by one individual in that large and attentive
audience. He was a young man I had never seen before,
and his agitated manner and unkempt clothes set him
apart from the other workers in the hall. The emigre
audiences were always poorly dressed, but this man was
also extremely dirty. I had never seen a more wretched-
looking human being. In spite of his large jaw and the
restlessness in his black eyes he gave the impression of
extreme timidity.
Throughout the book this personal attack con-
tinues. Mussolini whines, weeps, is hysterical, is a
coward. She puts him on his feet, and when the
Great War breaks out he betrays his trust as editor
of the Socialist “Avanti” by writing a leader in favor
of Italy supporting the Allies. She attacks him in
the psychoanalytical manner as a man trying to escape
from his inferiority complex by hysterical exhibi-
tionism.
It is so obviously impossible that the Italian
Socialists would have left the unbalanced weakling
she makes him out to be in charge of their official
newspaper for so long that her failure to mention a
single point in his favor is highly suspicious. Her
analysis of his states of mind is possibly correct; but,
even if it is, it’s meaningless—anybody who wins a
V.C. or writes a Ninth Symphony may be running
away from his “inferiority” just as is a gentleman who
commits a public suicide from a New York building.
If Balabanoff fails there to see how the personal
has mingled with the political, she is a more acute
observer when she tells why she left her comfortable
middle-class home in Russia to work for Communism:
Once when I saw some peasants on our estate kiss
the border of my father’s coat I cringed with shame.
My first realisation of inequality and injustice grew out
of those experiences in my early childhood. Probably
because of my rebellion against my mother, who ruled
my life and who for me personified all despotism, I
instinctively sided with those who had to obey her.
That is honest writing, but she’s careful not to
follow the line of thought to the logical conclusion
that the “necessary” killing of a dominant bourgeoisie
is, in effect, the rather unnecessary liquidation of
dominating parents. She was happy in her doctrinaire
world until the war; then came Mussolini’s defection,
the voting of war-credits by Socialists, the failure of
plans for a general strike. As first secretary of the
Communist International during the war she fought
her cause hopelessly against nationalist sentiment,
propaganda and censorships, until the Russian Revolu-
tion broke out and she and her kind saw in it the birth
of the new world.
She was in Switzerland. The German Govern-
ment provided a train for her and a group of fellow-
exiles to return to Russia. She stepped out of the
train at the Finnish-Russian border carrying a red
scarf tied to a stick, and wept for joy at the crowd
singing the “Internationale.” She knew her family
was in trouble, but would not go to them in case her
enthusiasm for the revolution should be doubted.
When her sister found her and begged her to save
her son being pressed to fight for the Bolsheviks, she
would not help. She worked with Trotsky, “brilliant,
arrogant, bitter, unpopular” ; with Zinoviev, “with the
airs and manners of a Tsar” ; with the wily Lenin
and the “insignificant” Stalin. The people were starv-
ing ; she was asked to address workmen, but refused
to do it because she knew that they wanted not words
but bread. There were mass murders. An attempt
was made on her life. Gradually the terror sickened
her. When she complained to Lenin of “the senseless
cruelty of the Cheka” he thought her childish. She
came to the conclusion:
The tragedy of Russia, and indirectly of the revo-
lutionary movement in general, began when the terror
. became a habit rather than an act of self-defence. The
leaders had become accustomed too soon to follow the
path of least resistance—the extermination of opposi-
tion in any form. The trials and executions of the past
two years which have dishonored not only Russia but
the whole revolutionary movement may cancel in the
memory of mankind the gigantic social and technical
achievements of the Revolution. The crimes did not
begin with Stalin. They are links in a chain that had
been lorged by 1920.
For opposing “unnecessary” bloodshed she was
expelled from the Communist party. For 40 years
she had been in the centre of the complicated pattern
of Communist intrigue, working for the “necessary”
bloodshed from which the “unnecessary’’ was bound
to develop. In her closing chapters she demonstrates
the same rigidity of mind and the same refusal to face
facts by applauding the Communist intervention in
the struggle in Spain but deploring the factional mur-
ders among the Reds.
With Uncle Sam's G-Men.
The commonly-held theory that slums are the
main breeding-ground of criminals comes in for
some debunking in Persons in Hiding (Dent), a forth-
right, vigorously written and in other ways remark-
able book by J. Edgar Hoover, chief of Uncle Sam’s
G-Men.
It is true, he says, that slums breed a tremendous
amount of crime, but the great percentage of U.S.A.’s
worst criminals have been products of small towns.
Only a few of his long list of desperate characters
“can truly be said to be the products of a big city.”
Therefore, it would perhaps be more sensible if we
who seek to eradicate crime ceased to brush the subject
away with the mere statement that slums are the cause
of all crime or that big cities are the only breeding
spots, and looked at the truth, which is that crime is
a state of mind, whether it be in the most crowded of
tenement districts or in the broad expanse of meadows
and brooks and beautiful vistas.
The small town, “with its sleepy atmosphere and
air of quiet, has come in for much beneficial adver-
tising about morality,” but records show that “the
fellow who reaches a state of mind in which he
believes he can get away with murder often goes forth
from just such surroundings.” Also—in U.S.A., at
any rate—“a great part of our desperate criminal
population spends much of its time in rural hideouts,”
shooting birds and game, for a change, or fishing.
An even more popular notion debunked by Mr.
Hoover—the films are without any question chiefly
responsible for it—is that U.S.A.’s great army of
ruthless criminals is mainly of alien birth or descent.
In almost every Hollywood crime-picture the chief
gangster, his lieutenants and most of his crew are
obvious southern Europeans. The publicity given to
A 1 Capone is another cause of the fallacy. The
G-chief lists the more dangerous bank-robbers, “who
have blasted for themselves a bloody trail from one
end of America to the other”:
Here we find such names as Keating, Holden, Nash,
Miller, Gunn, Kent, Simons, Floyd, Doll, Holland,
Gilmore, Underhill, Brady, Heady, Short, Cooper,
Melton, Reece, Austin, Maroon, Kelly, Bates, Hansen,
Gordon, Sullivan, Wynne, Daniels, Mease, Lloyd,
Marlow, Venable, Carroll, Phillips, Sadler and even
Smith. Only occasionally does one find a foreign name,
such as that of Richetti, or of Eddie Bentz, both of
whom were American born.
Let us look at the records of that outlaw crew
known as the Dillinger gang. Here were Makley,
Hamilton, Fox, Burns, Pierpont, Green, Carroll, Gillis,
Van Meter, Reilly, Cherrington, Steve, Williams, Hall,
Cochran, Perkins, Cassidy, O’Leary, Gray, Kerwin,
McCarthy, Gannon, Finerty, with perhaps four other
persons, all minor offenders, possessing names which
might give them the classification of foreign extraction.
And of all these and others, declares Mr. Hoover,
only a few, such as Baby Face Nelson (Gillis), have
been big-city products. He places first among causes
of the criminal state of mind the belief that the person
committing the crime “can get away with it,” for
implanting which idea parents —especially mothers—
are very often responsible. “Were I to list what I
believe to be one of the greatest present-day con-
tributors to our growing crime annals, I am afraid
that I should be forced to lay the blame squarely
,at the door of parental over-indulgence.” As witness
to this he instances “Mother Barker”:
The United States came to know her brood as the
most vicious, cold-blooded crew of murderers, kid-
nappers and robbers in recent history. And their edu-
cation began, not in the slums, nor in “bad company,”
but in the very place where there should be guidance
and help and assistance towards clean living—at their
mother’s knee. Were the instance unusual, it should
not be worth quoting. Sadly enough, however, the
record of practically every “made criminal” —that
is, the violator who is of normal mentality—contains
somewhere symptoms of rebellion which, if not due to,
can be traced almost directly to influences in the home,
or those which became active because there was no
home. In the case of this witness, home and mother
were pre-eminent, factors which represent the causations
in a large number of criminal cases, especially in that
pathetically enormous grouping which contains nearly
20 p.c. of our major criminals, all of which percentage,
male or female, are of less than voting age.
Even admitting the strength of Mr. Hoover’s
general argument on these lines, it will be felt that
Mother Barker is an exceptional case, since she figures
in U.S.A. crime records as the most vicious, dangerous
and resourceful criminal brain of the last decade ;
and that, as anyone reading Mr. Hoover will see, is
a pretty fair performance.
As Mr. JToover tells of her, Mother Barker is a
character worthy of inclusion high up among the
very worst criminals of all time. She headed what was
known as the Barker-Karpis gang of “hoodlums, high-
waymen and kidnappers,” of which pretty and
extensive nest only Karpis was of foreign birth or
extraction, and he was brought up from earliest child-
hood in U.S.A.
Of Mother Barker’s four sons, one became a
mail robber, another a hold-up man, and the other
(Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Always.
THE SENIOR STORE/’
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
s4l
f\
/
L-
HR <1
wm.
mm
-. ■
*•■ m
«p:
Ml
mmm m
HH
a
V 3 "
mk
mm i
1
iiISP
1
READY TO WEAR SAC SUITS
Authentically tailored by Anthony Horderns’ under expert supervision!
The suitings are of all wool, in Blues and Greys; and the quiet conservative
patterns will appeal to every man. At Anthony Horderns . . 59/
596
HYGIENE CAMPAIGN
FOR BETTER AND CLEANER BEDDING.
WE WILL GIVE YOU UP
TO £1 FOR YOUR OLD
MATTRESS OR QUILT
ENQUIRE FOR PARTICULARS.
GABARDINE
RAINCOATS
75'-
These smartly tailored Raglan-style raincoats
will go a long way towards lifting your wet-
weather depression! The Navy All-Wool
Gabardine is splendid quality, and they are
lined with Art. Silk for extra warmth.
At Anthony Horderns’ . . 75/-
47/6 TASMANIAN
BLUEY O’COATS
A grand Overcoat for
country wear! They are
warm, waterproof and
very serviceable. Made
in our own workrooms, hence the reason-
able price. (The special reduction is for a
limited period only.) Anthony Horderns’
Regular Price 47/6
Special Price 39/6
39'6
GOOD, TOUGH WEARING
“Hordura” Twist Trousers
These Trousers have a State-wide reputation for wonderful wear. In
Dark Grey, Fawn or Olive Green, cut full with high hody rise. Sizes
30in. to 46in. waist. At Anthony Horderns’ • • 14/6
146
Strong British Twill Overalls
Useful Bib and Brace style Overalls, in Navy or Khaki British Drill—they
wear marvellously.
At Anthony Horderns’ 4/11, 7/11, 9/6, 10/9, 13/6, 14/6
/
, V
9 Men’s Wear—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to, all railway stations in N.S.W. ana
seaports in the Commonwealth.
WHILE I LIVE I'U CROW
m
\
m
■i
1111
■ m
1
-
9
j
iiil
■
: m
■
ai
I «
X\
p mii i \ \
\ | \
Wm
msm
MM
H g
■a
Hni
Bill
m
■ : ,
.
IS d
m
m u
j W: > W'
I L .* v \s?m
It if p |a 111
f '! i’'/*
/. & ■
\(r ; M,
aiiißßi
I 1111 l 1
i '<WP :
ißjlMlllib;;
‘ 7 ‘ *5
'm
i 7 i
F m
t •' •'";>
w
■>■■■•"
M
H


Sydney’s Growing-up
OUT OF THE PAST
J .H.M. ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
The First Lieutenant
44 I HAVE recently been reading in an Indian news-
I paper,” wrote the Baron Von Big in July, 1846,
I “of General Gough’s decisive victory over the
Sikhs near the village of Sobraon, on the left
bank of the River Sutlej, and among the fatal casualties
on the British side was grieved to notice the name of
my old friend Lieutenant-Colonel Patrick Calder, who
died at the head of his regiment whilst gallantly lead-
ing it into action. It is almost thirty years since I first
made the acquaintance of the deceased officer and his
two boon companions, Lieutenant Gregory Wicks, of
the Royal Navy, and Mr. Arthur Moorfield Pilking-
ton, of the Commissariat. Never shall I forget the
impression made upon me by these three delightful
gentlemen, or the quaint adventure which marked the
beginning of my relations with that redoubtable trio
of brave young men.
“I arrived in Port Jackson at the beginning of
1817, and when the Hydaspes, which had carried me,
together with a large passenger list of convicts, from
Gravesend to Sydney Cove, had dropped anchor in
that beautiful harbor, I became aware of H.M.S. Emu,
a brig-of-war, lying about a cable’s length from where
we had taken up our moorings. Trim and taut she
looked, and I was standing upon the poop admiring
her outline against the dark forests of the North Shore,
resolving in due course to make a courtesy call upon
her commanding officer, when a boat put off from
her, came alongside the Hydaspes and disembarked
upon our quarter-deck a good-looking and athletic
young officer with a pleasant, cheery, sunburnt face.
He caught sight of me standing above him, and im-
mediately ran up the poop-ladder. Saluting, he
addressed me cheerfully, holding out his hand, which
I was glad to shake heartily, much appreciating this
genial welcome in a strange land.
“ ‘Good morning, Captain,’ he said. ‘I trust you
have had a good voyage. Permit me to introduce
myself as Gregory Wicks, first lieutenant of his
Majesty’s ship yonder. I’ve come across for our
mails.’
“ ‘Sir,’ I replied, ‘you are under a misapprehen-
sion. I am merely a passenger. The Baron Augustus
Von Big, at your service, if you will allow me. The
captain is below, and if you will permit it I will be
glad to conduct you to him.’
“ ‘Thank you, Baron’ —he laughed at his mistake.
‘1 am very glad to meet you. Yes, if you will be so
good.’
Outlined against the dark
forests of the North Shore.
“Thus began a friendship which I have always
recollected with extreme pleasure.
“We went below and found Captain Bates busy
with the harbormaster in the Great Cabin. The mails
for H.M.S. Emu were duly handed over, and Mr.
Wicks took his leave. On the quarter-deck he turned
to me with a smile after bidding adieu to Captain
Bates.
“ ‘Sir,’ he said, ‘I have it from Captain Piper, the
Naval Officer, whom you just met in the cabin, that until
after the Governor’s inspection of the convicts —which,
since his Excellency is absent at Parramatta, cannot
fake place until to-morrow —no one is to be allowed
to land from this ship. I fear that you may find the
time hang heavily on your hands this afternoon and
evening, and it would give me the very greatest
pleasure if you would come aboard my ship and dine
with me. I may be able to give you some useful
information about Sydney and its inhabitants. Can
you come with me now in my boat? I assure you
that you will confer a favor upon my messmates and
myself by consenting. A new arrival from Europe
is a treasure indeed.’
“This so charmingly-expressed invitation was not
to be refused, so, after acquainting Captain Bates
with my intention of accompanying Lieutenant Wicks
aboard his ship, I presently found myself saluting her
snowy quarter-deck and being introduced to the officer
of the watch, and afterwards to the captain. Mr.
Wicks then took me below to the wardroom, .where
we sat down to an excellent repast, very agreeable—
with its fish, poultry, fresh meats and vegetables— to
one whose stomach was almost in revolt against the
meagre and stale provision available aboard a convict
transport at the end of a voyage of many months’
duration. I did full justice to the good food and the
good wines that went' with it, to say nothing of my
great appreciation of the lively and witty company in
which I found myself.
“AS the sun was sinking we smoked our cigars
upon the poop, whilst my companions
enlightened me on sundry aspects of life in New
South Wales, told me stories characteristic of the
motley collection of inhabitants of the colony, tales
of his Excellency Major-General Macquarie, then
Governor-General of the Australian territories, and
gave me more or less authentic accounts of the
singular flora and fauna of this peculiar country.
When the short twilight had ended and the bright
stars of the Southern Hemisphere were reflecting
themselves in the placid waters overside, I suggested
to my host that perhaps I had better return to the
Hydaspes if he would be so kind as to have a boat
piped away for me.
“‘Well, my dear Baron,’ he replied, ‘the night is
yet young, and I don’t see why I should deprive
myself of the pleasure of -your society for a few
hours yet. What would you say to coming ashore
with me and meeting one or two of my friends? It
would give me the greatest satisfaction to make you
acquainted with Ensign Calder, of the 46th, and with
Mr. Pilkington, of the Commissary-General’s depart-
ment.’
“I protested that
nothing would give me
greater pleasure, but re-
minded Mr. Wicks of the
Naval Officer’s order
that no one was to go
on shore from the
Hydaspes until after the
I Governor’s inspection
on the morrow.
“ ‘Pooh! ’ he laughed.
‘That’s only old Johnny
Piper. We needn’t take
much notice of him.
We’ll go ashore and he’ll
be none the wiser, and I
can leave orders for our
boat to pick us up about
midnight, when I can put you aboard your ship just
as though you’d come direct from the Emu. Pray
do come, Baron. I can assure you you’ll find Sydney
at night a much more interesting place than you’re
ever likely to find it in the daytime. You’ll be in
excellent company, Baron. They are both delightful
fellows.’
“It did not require much pressing to prevail
upon me to fall in with my host’s proposal, and in
half an hour or so I stepped ashore in Sydney for
the first time, in the excellent company of the first
lieutenant of H.M.S. Emu. I have often been in
worse and seldom in better.
“CTYDNEY in 1817 must have been one of the
Vw ' strangest places in all the far-flung realm of
his Majesty King George the Third. Within the
next week or two I became quite familiar with all
the aspects of the quaint little capital of the South
Seas, which at that time boasted a population of
under 7000 inhabitants and was not quite thirty
years in existence.
“The place had a peculiar charm of its own
even in those primitive days—such a charm as no
alterations and improvements have been able, or ever
will be able, to take from it. The Government
House, a building of whitewashed brick and stucco,
stood on rising ground to the south-eastward of the
Cove, surrounded by a demesne of about four acres.
Passing down into the valley of the Tank Stream
from its situation, one had on the left the homes
and offices of the Judge-Advocate, the Commissary-
General, the Rev. William Cowper and the Surveyor-
General. Crossing the stone bridge over the rivulet,
you passed the Lumber Yard, where worked most
of the convict artisans, and it stretched as far as
George-street, the main thoroughfare.
“On the opposite site stood the large building,
in a big garden, of the Orphan School. The junction
of George and Bridge streets was about the centre
of the town. St. Phillip’s Church, with its round
tower, was built on the rise called Church Hill, a
little nor’-west of this junction. Along the ridge
of York-street stood the huge military barracks, with
the gaol a little north of it. To the south the town
stretched for about a mile along the rising valley.
Scattered cottages then led to the Brickfields, where
bricks, tiles and pottery were manufactured by
convict potters. This, in a few words, was the Sydney
whose acquaintance I made in 1817.
“It’s two principal characteristics were its convict
and emancipist population, rigidly divided from the
military, official and free-settler class, and it's extra-
ordinary drunkenness. There existed at the time
some fifty-two licensed taverns, and the consumption
of alcohol was very great and quite universal.
“Lieutenant Wicks led me through Macquarie-
place, across the bridge, up the rise into George-
street, and northward along Sydney’s main highway.
There was no street lighting, and visibility was
afforded only by the not infrequent public-house
lamps above each disorderly doorway and the gleam
of candlelight through small-paned windows. From
the inns came a sound of untuneful singing and
bacchanalian discords. Now and then we passed by
a cutlass-armed watchman or constable loafing along
the dusty sidewalks or leaning lazily against house-
walls in a perfunctory fashion of looking after a
non-existent law and order. And now and then we
almost ran into small free fights in which various
ruffianly persons of either sex seemed to participate
with more or less good humor, because such diversion
was fashionable rather than malicious.
“To pass through Sydney on a summer evening
in 1817 was an entirely unique experience—one that
might possibly have been a little terrifying to a timid
stranger but was quite innocuous to persons capable
of minding their own business and not desirous of
interfering in matters that did not concern them. The
loafing constables were evidently all of this descrip-
tion, and the last place to look for any of them
would have been in the vicinity of a disturbance.
“Opposite the gaol a walled oblong above
which the roofs of a couple of interior buildings lifted
against the dark background of The Rocks and the
starlit sky —we were crossing the open door of a
tavern within the walls of which there seemed to be
less revelry going on than in similar establishments
we had passed since coming out of Bridge-street.
My newly-found friend halted in the candlelight
streaming out into the roadway, clutching me by the
elbow, so that I, too, came to a standstill.
“ ‘Just a moment, Baron,’ he said. ‘I think we’ll
go in here and take a dram. ’Tis the Spotted Dog
Jnn, and there is just a possibility that my friends
may be inside. They—that is, we —sometimes for-
gather here. Quite a decent place, kept by an almost
respectable old lag called Timothy Naylan.’
“We had to stoop our heads to enter the low-
cejlinged bar-room that opened on the street. In the
dim radiance of a couple of candles stuck in the
necks of bottles standing on the counter we became
aware that the room was empty, though the sound
of voices in quiet conversation was audible through
an open door that led to the back premises of the
frowsy little building.
“ ‘What-ho! ’ shouted Mr. Wicks. ‘Where are
ye, Tim Naylan? Here are two good customers


awaiting ye. Come on out here, ye red-headed black-
guard, and attend to your business.’
“Into the room came a fiery-topped stout man
in slippers. His face was red and his manner a little
flustered, so that I had instantly an idea that we were
intruders of an unwelcome sort.
“ ‘Ha, Tim,’ asked the seaman, ‘are the lads
here?’
“‘Sh-sh! 1 half-whispered the stout man a little
fearfully. ‘Sure, thin, they are, sorr. But ’tis busy
they are, an’ they’ve tould me for to let no one
dishturb thim.”
“ ‘Oh, well —that can’t refer to me. Their busi-
ness is mine too. What’s all this weighty business?
‘“’Tis Black Tom Nutting, sorr —bad luck to
him.’
“‘Black Tom! What’s he want with ’em?’
“ ‘ ’Tis a matther that’s privit, sorr. Privit be-
twixt ’em. Sure, I’d lave the gintlemin alone, Mr.
Wicks. They’d not like for to be interrupted.’
“ ‘Oh, damn their privacy. Those two can have
nothing private from me. Come along, Baron. They
can suspend their private business until I introduce
you!’
“I followed him through the low doorway, and
came upon as varied a trinity of human beings as I
have ever encountered, seated about a rough round
table on which guttered a tallow candle and stood a
rum-bottle and glasses.
“First I was attracted by as handsome a Regency
buck as I ever saw, most immaculately dressed, who
leaned back in his chair and quizzed the pair of us
languidly through an eyeglass. On his right was a
subaltern officer —an ensign—of H.M. 46th Regiment,
then in garrison in Sydney, wearing uniform. Oppo-
site them sat scowling as ill-favored an individual as
I have seen in a long life. He had one eye, and a
black patch over the other, and a sabre or cutlass
slash disfigured his right cheek. He was ugly and
wicked-looking and altogether in striking contrast
to his two young companions. I was yet to learn
the strange lack of class distinction obtaining in the
colony, save only between ‘bond and free.’
“ ‘Brummell,’ said my nautical friend, addressing
the exquisite, ‘this is the Baron Augustus Von Big,
just arrived in Sydney; and this soldier-man, my
dear Baron, is Ensign Patrick Calder, an ornament
of the 46th incidentally, I may. say, much more
ornamental than useful. Now you know one another.
Be careful of them, Baron —they are not all they
look.’
“Somewhat pointedly he refrained from intro-
ducing me to the third party, and unwisely I remarked
on the circumstance. ‘And your other friend, Herr
Lieutenant?’
“ ‘Oh, damme, Baron, the fellow’s no friend, of
mine. That’s Black Tom Nutting, the biggest villain
in Sydney—and that’s saying a good deal. A
rogue if ever was one!’
“ ‘God damn my soul! ’ growled the ill-favored
recipient of this testimonial, half-rising from his chair.
“Peremptorily Mr. Wicks waved at him a warning
hand, and the fellow obeyed with an ill grace, mutter-
ing obscene oaths. ‘You stay where you are, Black
Tom,’ enjoined the naval officer. ‘lf you don’t I’ll
spread you out —and you know I can do it.
“ ‘Brummell’ —he turned to the dandy—‘what on
earth are you and Patsy doing in this scoundrel’s
company? ’Pon my soul, I’m ashamed of you.’
“ ‘Well, you thee, Panthy,’ drawled Mr. Pilking-
ton —so I subsequently learned the gentleman was
named—‘Tom Nutting’th got one of his wencheth in
trouble, and he’th twying to put it on to Patwick
here. Talkth of going to Colonel Molle and to
Macquawie about it. Demandth money fwom Pat-
wick to shut hith mouth. Oh, a lovely piethe of
blackmail.’
“ ‘And what’s Pat Calder got to say about it?”
“‘A cursed lie!’ cried Mr. Calder indignantly.
‘I know the girl, of course, but’
“Mr. Wicks looked severely at his friend.
“You’re no damn’ saint, Patrick —we all know that.’
“So help me God, it’s the truth. It’s a put-up
job on the part of this ruffian. I’ll take my dying
oath on that.’
“ ‘Well, laddie,’ said Mr. Wicks after a reflective
pause, ‘your dying oath wouldn’t be any good to me
if anyone beside Tom Nutting were the accuser.
Who’s the lady?’
“ ‘That wed-headed piethe Fanny Downth,' volun-
teered Mr. Pilkington.
“ ‘Oho! ’ said Lieutenant Wicks. ‘So that’s it, is it?
You beauty—oh, you beauty!’ he said to the man
Nutting. ‘Stand up, damn you—stand up!’
He whipped off his epauletted tail-coat, undid
his sword-belt, laying the weapon on the table, and
kicked off his shoes.
“ ‘Stand up! ’ he roared again to the shrinking
Nutting. ‘Stand up, you garbage!’
“Nutting made no move, but his single evil eye
was fixed balefully though fearfully upon the young
officer. With a curse that gentleman strode to the
back of his chair, seized him by the coat-collar and
jerked him violently into a standing position. Then
“Stand up!” he roared again to the shrinking Nutting.
“Stand up, you garbage!”
he released him and, quick as lightning, gave him
left and right with his lists in the (ace. The ill-
looking ruffian simply collapsed in a heap on the
looxing ruman y y
° or “ ‘Oh I thay Panthy,’ expostulated Mr. Pilking-
ton, rising to his feet and peering over the table at
the heap on the floor, ‘you thyouldn’t have done
that Maybe you've killed the blackguard. Get
thome bwandy, Timothy.’
“‘Brandy be damned!'’ cried Mr. Wicks. ‘Let
him lie where he is.’
“Why’d you hit him like that?’ asked Ensign
Ca l der
“ ‘Why? I’ll tell you why,’ replied the naval
officer heatedly. ‘ ’Tis only yesterday Bill Rogers,
Boatswain's mate in my ship, came to me for five
pounds of his back pay to provide tor his prospecU«
offspring by sweet Fanny Downs. Told me Nutting
had demanded a§ the girl ’ s on ly relative in Sydney.
I gave him the money. But that’s not enough for
the brave Tom Nutting. He must try
Pat Calder. The sweep! Twill be yout lain
next, Brummell. But I don’t somehow, think hell
P ick °" me - T do"' 1 (hmk he llkes me well en ? Ugh ‘
“‘Tim Naylan,’ said Mr. Pilkington, pway
wemove the carcath. And bwing a bottle of your
betht Madeirwa. We mufflt dwink Bawon Von
Big’th health after intwoduthing him, tho to thpeak,
to the pwetty wayth of Thydney Town. Lothe no
time, my good Tiniothy.’ ”
NUMBER FOUR
BY CON DREW
IT was Friday night, and Cracker was drunk. He
zigzagged over to the kerb and shut one eye iO
focus a lamp on the opposite side of the street.
It was a good lead over, and bracing himself for
the journey he stepped on to the roadway. Then
round the corner whizzed a motor-car. It swooped
down upon Cracker and hurled him into the air.
Cracker felt himself falling through leagues of
space. Down he fell, gathering momentum as he went
until finally he landed with a thud, and darkness came
upon him.
< ‘ l_J ELLO,” said Sate, giving Cracker a prod with
*1 his fork. “Another one from King’s Cross.
Well, well, well. Business is looking up.”
Cracker looked at the smoke-blackened ceiling,
then his eyes wandered to the gridiron where a score
of welshing bookmakers were undergoing their evening
singe. “I’ll have to turn up the booze,” he muttered
dazedly. “I’m gettin’ them again.”
“You’ll get more than you want directly,” said
Sate. “Here, you!” he yelled at a short, stout devil
who was leaning dejectedly on a fire shovel. “Show
this man into Department Four. In an hour’s time
you can bring him back to me.”
Dropping the shovel, the little devil grabbed a
flaming torch and led the way down a rocky incline.
Fifty paces further on he plunged into a darkened
tunnel which seemed to lead into the bowels of the
earth. Above them swung dozens of half-fried punters
strung up to the roof like sides of bacon. A couple
of hundred yards along the guide turned into a side
corridor and finally came to a stop outside a huge
iron door. Shooting back the bolt, he opened the
door and thrust Cracker across the threshold.
Cracker gave a gasp of amazement, and stood
rooted to the floor. In the centre of the lofty place
in which he found himself, a score or more of men
were playing two-up.
Pulling himself together, Cracker crossed the
asbestos floor and came to a stop on the outskirts ot
the ring.
“Hello, Cracker,” said a voice at his elbow.
“You’ve got here at last, have you? ’
Cracker turned to face a little rat-faced person
with ears so large they might have been mistaken for
jug-handles. “Cripes, if it isn’t Spadger Mojris! he
exclaimed. “I hardly knew you at first. You had
a moustache last time I saw you.”
“That’s right,” said Spadger; but moustaches
don’t last too long here. It’s as a man can
do to keep the hair on his head intact.”
“What’s the strong' of this two-up?’ queried
Cracker.
‘Oh, the old boy lets us boys in Number Four
have a bit of a game on Friday nights,” returned
Spadger. “He reckons it freshens us up for the grid-
iron on Saturday morning.”
“But they’re playin’ for cash,” said Cracker.
“Money’s no use to anyone here. ’
“Oh, ain’t it?” laughed Spadger. “Money is good
anywhere, my boy. A dollar to the head stoker will
get you let off the gridiron for two or three hours.
Coin’ to have a game?”
Cracker shook his head. “1 never have any luck
at two-up. If they were playin’ poker I’d hop in.”
“There’s a game of poker in the next room if
you’d like to take it on,” said Spadger ; “but it’s a
pretty tough school.”
“It can be as tough as it likes,” laughed Cracker.
“Is it dead square?”
“It’s got to be,” Spadger returned. “That’s patt
of the penance.”
“That’ll do me,” said Cracker.
SPADGER led the way across and pushed open
a door, from which came the hum of low
voices.
Cracker shot a glance at the players who were
seated at an iron table with eyes for nothing but the
game. Hard-bitten fellows they were, whose chief
occupation in life had been reaching over for poker
chips.
The dealer looked up then. “Hello!” he
exclaimed. “Some new blood, eh? Care to sit in
for a game, brother?”
“I don’t mind,” answered Cracker. “How are
you playin’?”
“Two-bob rises.” The dealer turned to the man
seated next to him. “Move up, Ted, and give this
gent, a seat.”
Ted made room, and Cracker sat in. He got no-
thing for a while, then Aladdin rubbed his lamp and
he was dealt three sevens. There was nothing to back
them up, but three hooks are always worthy of
respect.
“I’m in,” said Cracker, pushing two shillings for-
ward.
“So am I,” said a bloke called Nasty Bob.
The others threw in their hands.
“Cards?” said the dealer.
Nasty held up a finger and was dealt one card.
Cracker bought two. Then, holding the five cards
close to his ribs, he squeezed them out fan-shape.
A miracle had happened. He had caught another
seven.
Nasty ruffled his cards and looked across the
table at Cracker. “It’s up to you,” he said.
(Continued on page 7.)


Another Sesquicentenary Prize-winner
IN
THE
SUN
by
Margaret Trist
DRAWINGS BY PHILLIPS
I.
I IFE was very important.
There was something
I about it that made
you want to dance
and sing ; made you want
to run madly down the asphalted city footpaths, tap-
ping with your hands on telephone-posts as you went,
or to fling yourself down in the garden and lie in the
sun.
It wasn’t a very large garden ; just a few square
yards between the verandah and the front fence. The
fence had a paling missing, and the gate swung open
because the catch was gone ; and on the gate was a
small oval place cleaner than all the rest where a
number had once been. The narrow path leading
beside the lawn to the verandah was made of faded
red cement with large cracks in it.
On the verandah the mats were lying in a doleful,
shabby mass, waiting to be shaken—you were supposed
to be shaking them ; and the ends of the faded blue
lace curtains in mother’s bedroom draggled through
the partly-opened windows and the tassels tapped
dismally against the woodwork. These things were
depressing, so you gave them one glance, then turned
your back on them and stared at the hydrangea
bushes.
Hydrangeas were the only things that grew in the
garden apart from the gaillardias, and they had
become so mixed up with the lawn that they didn’t
count. But the hydrangeas were very beautiful —blue,
mostly, almost as blue as the sky. So you let your
eyes fall on the things you liked, forgot about the
mats and let vague thoughts of all the years ahead
go through your mind.
You were seventeen now, so there was quite a
lot of time ahead. Then you would either get a job
or marry someone or be a moving-picture star or a
famous authoress or a poor, lonely spinster or some-
thing or other. That was the best of life —something
was bound to happen.
You wondered what Lizbeth was doing now.
Lizbeth had been one of your friends at school.
You’d promised to go and see her after the Christmas
holidays were over, but so far you hadn’t managed
to get together the two-and-eightpence that was
necessary for fares. Two-and-eightpence was a lot
for fares. When you got a job you’d be able to go
and see her.
Lizbeth was very nice. You liked her. Some-
how, on that last day at school you’d been closer to
her than in all the years that had gone before it.
You’d gone round together saying good-bye to teachers
and friends. Lizbeth was very neat and tidy, and she
had smooth, gold-brown hair and a fair, clear skin.
It made you realise that your own was rather sallow
and that, whereas Lizbeth’s was quite clean, yours
had ink on it somewhere. After you’d said good-bye
to everyone you’d walked together down the path
and out through the gate for the very last time.
That things could end as definitely as that hurt,
and so you cried and got all messy, and Lizbeth cried
too, and looked very nice doing it. Then she’d
cheered up and said that as the weather was fine there
ought to be good surfing over the holidays. Lizbeth’s
thoughts were always very orthodox, but, then, she’d
never had to go to school with the elbows through
the sleeves of her blouse or the soles of her shoes
wearing thin. At the tram-stop you had said good-
bye, and felt that you loved her a great deal. Of
course you still loved her a great deal, though you
hadn’t seen her since.
”"F HE sun was getting hotter. It got into your eyes
1 and made you blink. Father blinked a lot lately
because he needed glasses, and glasses cost a lot of
money. When you got a job it would be better,
though Mother seemed to want you at home for a
while. Five children younger than you were a lot to
look after.
There was something very nice about Father,
though his face was sombre-looking under his dark
thatch of hair. At home he was always preoccupied.
The only time you really saw him was at meals, when
he sat hunched up at the head of the table and
scarcely noticed anyone. Mother sat down at the
other end and talked all the time about how she
gave up everything for Father and the children and
how nobody was grateful, and how the children’s
clothes were all wearing out and that last quarter’s
gas bill wasn’t paid yet, and that life was very dull
when you could go to the pictures only twice a week.
Sometimes Father would look up and see you,
and when you smiled he would smile back, a smile
that tilted the corners of his mouth and crinkled the
hollow places under his eyes. You didn’t know why,
but something would beat inside you and you loved
him, loved him with every inch of you.
Helping at home wasn’t as nice as it had sounded
when you left school. There was so much washing-
up. The china was thick and ugly, and the knives
and forks always seemed to have egg stuck to them
or be sticky with honey or jam, and the wiping-up
cloths had a habit of being damp or soiled. Sweep-
ing floors made your back tired, and making beds
was a never-ending job. But washing-day was the
worst of .all. The dirty, sorted-out clothes lying on
the laundry floor silks in one place, coloreds in
another, socks by the door —the steam rising from
the copper.
Still, with all its disadvantages, staying at home
meant that you could sometimes lie in the sun. The
sun shone on you and the breeze played with your
hair while the hydrangeas swung above you, and the
mats, in their drab, unshapely mass, lay forgotten
on the verandah.
11.
THE sun came in the office window, falling in slant-
ing rays on to the nearest pale-oak tables and
making diagonal patterns on the shiny brown
linoleum-covered floor. Outside the window were
dingy buildings and then, beyond, the breath-taking
smooth blue that was the harbor. You noticed the
harbor more than the buildings when you leant out
the window —the harbor and the red-tiled houses that
covered the green slopes on the other side of it.
You shouldn’t be leaning out the window, because
of the work that littered your table and the unfinished
letter still in your machine, but typing made your
fingers ache and blurred your eyes so. Besides, you
couldn’t go on working for ever and for ever. The
girls were all looking at you, and there’d be a terrible
row if the boss came out of his room and caught
you. Still, he mightn’t come out, and you didn’t
care about the girls, anyhow. They didn’t like you,
and thought you were too young and silly for anything
except to make fun of and to palm work which they
didn’t like on to, or to blame you when things went
wrong. You really didn’t mind, though. There was
always the sunshine spilling in the window, and the
things you could think of over your work.
And you were very lucky to have a job. It
hadn’t been easy to get. You had walked about for
days and days, and quite often you hadn’t had any
»unch. You had stood in queues, and when it came
to your turn the man had just looked at you—not
really at you, but at your silk frock that had got a
bit bedraggled, showing at the bottom of your last
winter’s coat. As soon as the man looked at you
you knew you weren’t wanted, and you’d had to start
all over again. It wasn’t so bad walking about the
streets, but you felt dreadful at tea-time when Mother
kept on saying how much your fares had cost.
But at last you had got a job. When you thought
of how lucky you were to have it, you felt uneasy
about the work waiting for you to do. You got
twenty-five shillings a week. Ten shillings for board,
three shillings for fares and twelve shillings for your-
self. The twelve shillings would have gone a long
way only for stockings always wearing out and the
way shoes had of turning over at the heels.
You wished you were like Lizbeth and could
keep your things good for ages and ages, and always
walk properly so that your shoes wore out gradually
and evenly. Lizbeth, too, managed money very well.
If you went out together just before payday Lizbeth
often had to lend you money. She never ran out
of it, and she had explained how she managed it, but
it didn’t seem to work the same way with you.
j IZBETH was very nice. You liked her a lot,
even better than you had at school. You had
known such a lot of girls there, and now there seemed
to be only the two of you. You had run into her
one lunch-time, and she had kissed you and you had
both almost cried. Then you had planned lots of
things together; you had even joined a dramatic
society together. Not that either of you could act
very well, but the weekly meetings were good fun.
First you had tea together, not in a cafe, but on the
stairway in some building. You crouched in the
darkness and ate meat-pies and buttered rolls, and
flattened yourselves against the wall if anyone
happened to pass up or down the steps. The dramatic
society met in a little room on the third floor of an
old building. The room was used by art students
during the day and on most other nights of the week,
and when you went in it smelt heavily of oils and
all the meals of fried eggs and coffee the boys had
ever had in it. But through the windows you could
see the harbor and the bridge lights and, above you,
through the wide skylight, the stars and the dark
night sky.
You liked one of the boys there. He was terribly
good-looking and very clever. You thought he liked
you a little bit, too. It gave you a hot, queer feeling
to think that, and you shivered deliciously when he
looked at you. His name was Donald, and he wrote
plays. He had produced five one night. You and
Lizbeth had gone along to see them, and though you
didn’t understand them you thought they were very
wonderful and had been annoyed at the unkiiid things
the paper said next morning.
You really ought to be working, but it was nearly
lunch-time, so you’d just stay a bit longer and make
up for it afterwards, though you were going to Liz-
beth’s place for dinner to-night, and having dinner at
Lizbeth’s place always made you so excited you found
it hard to work beforehand.
You got to Lizbeth’s place by boat. It was
always so peaceful gliding over the water in the late
afternoon ; not like the train with its rush and roar
through the underground and its clatter out to the
suburbs. You hung on where you could and lurched
and swayed as it tore along; or, if you did manage
to get a seat, you had to start fighting your way
to the door two stops before your own station. Still,
in a way it was fun, and you did see interesting
people, like the boy who sometimes stood beside you.
You didn’t, of course, ever really look at him, and
you pretended not to hear when he said “Hullo,” but
you were beginning to wonder if there could possibly
be any harm in your answering him, like Father
insisted there would be.
You’d like to live in a house like the one in
which Lizbeth lived, with a garden all round it. The


“Oh, the usual two bob,” said Cracker carelessly.
“The limit,” said Nasty.
“Cripes!” exclaimed Cracker in mock surprise.
“It looks as if you had ’em. Oh, well, you might be
only foxin’—the limit again.”
“And again,” growled Nasty.
“Whew!” whistled Cracker. “And you only
bought one card? Well, I hate to do it, but I’ll have
to bounce her back. The limit again.”
“And once more,” said Nasty.
Cracker laughed. “I thought you stood behind
them when you opened up,” he observed, “and now
I’m certain. Still, I’m in for so much, I might as well
follow you. She’s up again.”
“And again,” said Nasty.
For a time they hoisted each other. Then Cracker
leant across the table and said: “It’s no good you
and me foolin’ around like a pair of old women at a
bunfight. You fancy your hand, don’t you?”
“I do,” answered Nasty.
“All right ” said Cracker. “What’s wrong with
us havin’ a decent bet? My hand against yours for
a quid.”
“Bah!” jeered Nasty. “I thought you wanted to
bet ?”
“Make it two quid, then,” suggested Cracker.
“Three quid would suit me better,” said Nasty.
“All right, three-pounds-ten,” returned Cracker.
“It’s all I’ve got, but I’ll give it a fly.”
Cracker scooped the money into a heap in the
centre of the table. Presently he turned to Nasty.
“Well, what have you got?” he queried.
‘‘Only four little sixes,” drawled Nasty. “They’re
terrible crook hands to have, am t they ? His hand
went out towards the pile.
Cracker grabbed his wrist and Jlung it aside,
“They’re not in the race,” he said. “Not with four
sevens.
“Oh, you little beauties, he cried. You little
snifters. I’m off the gridiron for at least a day and
a half.”
He was reaching out for the money when a
strange feeling of listlessness came over him. Nasty s
face became suddenly blurred, and a yellow haze
hung over the table. Someone touched his arm, and
mechanically he pulled it away.
“Yes, he seems to be coming round now,” said
a voice which appeared to be leagues away. Give
him an other sniff of that stuff.”
A w hiff of something that stung unmercifully
invaded Cracker’s nostrils, and he turned his head
aside.
“Yes, only a slight concussion, nurse, I think,”
said thg v ’ oice “When he recovers his senses put him
in Number Four.”
hjs eyes . Then h(J sa( up s 0
suddenly that the nurse went back a step.
No you don t, doc, he exclaimed. You don t
put me in no Number Four. Ive just come up from
there. You can have it on your own.
house was nice inside, too, and Lizbeth had a room
all to herself, and a wardrobe in which to hang her
clothes. You had to hang yours behind a door, and
they were always getting knocked down and crumpled.
Lizbeth was very lucky, but her father wasn’t as nice
as yours —not that he wasn’t a very nice man, and no
doubt he couldn’t help going to sleep the moment
dinner was over. Your father did a lot of terrible
things, but he never did that.
You didn’t like to invite Lizbeth to your place.
It made you go cold all over thinking of her walking
down the narrow hall and into the room which you
shared with Nancy and June. It was a very ugly
room. You’d never thought of that until you’d seen
Lizbeth’s room, all pink and cream and flooded with
sunlight. There was no sunshine in your room —only
a very little that filtered in late in the afternoon and
rested on the scratched top of the dressing-table and
the cracks in the linoleum. Still, you were lucky to
have a room. A lot of people didn’t; but it was so
hard to remember that.
You liked working in an office, yet there was
something about it that depressed you. The walls
stood about you, guarding, limiting you to a narrow
space. And the work piled up on your desk, filling
up the hours that hadn’t even come yet. You were
caught. Life had placed its restrictions upon you the
minute you had entered it, and in place of freedom
had given you a patch of sunlight by an invisibly
barred window. Still, it was good to have the sun-
shine and only to be half-conscious of the bars to
the window.
111.
VOU hated him! You hated him! Every bit of
you hated him. Your nose was pressed down
among the new spring grass, and your tears
went down into the ground, bringing out the
queer, earthy smell that you loved. But you couldn’t
thing of the earth-smell, because you hated him so
much.
You couldn’t look into the sunshine. It reminded
you of all the sunshine you had wanted to take to
him, of all the tender, loving gestures you had been
so willing to give to him. And he hadn’t wanted
them —not the ones you wanted to give. You’d been
silly of course, but you hadn’t known. You hadn’t
known. You’d only wanted to walk in dark places
because of the darkness itself —warm, friendly dark-
ness that wrapped about you and touched you with
its long dark fingers of mystery. You liked lonely
spots because of the wind in your face and the trees
and the grass; and when you were silent it was
because of all things, because of the whole wide
world. You were so glad to be in the world, glad of
your life, glad of everything—but you hated him.
You hated his name even. Donald. It would make
you wince now every time you heard it, and you
would think of him. Him and his hot hands and
stifling kisses. That wasn’t what you had wanted.
You hadn’t even thought.
Perhaps you were a prig, but you’d been taught to
be a prig. You didn’t know what was right, but you
knew what you ■ believed to be right, and somehow
you thought you were right now.
You hated him though, hated him because of the
shadow he had cast over the years.
You felt as if a little piece of your heart had
gone cold and would never get warm any more.
Never! Never!
IV.
L Tr7 ,BETH was burrowing in her haversack after
sausages and tomatoes while you cut up
onions on a plate and wept, but still managed
to keep half an eye on Lizbeth and the other
half on the stretch of ocean beneath you. You were
conscious, too, of David and John, gathering sticks
for the fire in the near vicinity.
Far out at sea a boat passed, a queer little black
speck going rapidly away from you over the edge of
your world. Your world was so very small. Your
home ; the office ; coming home in the train at night
with David —you’d answered him one night when he’d
said “Hullo,” and you’d come home together ever
since. He was very nice and Father liked him.
The smell of the onions cooking was very nice,
and the smoky smell from the fire wafted about you
and clung in your hair. You would like to live like
this always—just you and David walking from place
to place and cooking odd meals when you felt like
them. Living and laughing and lying in the sun.
That would be taking all the good things of life and
not sharing in the responsibilities. But why couldn’t
you escape running for the train in the morning,
and washing stockings, and wiping up the dinner-
dishes at night? But you couldn’t! You couldn’t!
You felt annoyed that you couldn’t, yet deep down
in you you knew that you couldn’t because you didn’t
want to. You wanted the things you knew, security
of shelter at night and certainty of meals. Adven-
ture had been bred out of you and you were afraid
of all that was unknown, and most of all you were
afraid of uncertainty.
LYING on the hillside was very peaceful. You
weren’t very important among the vastness of sea
and sky and the long grassy slope. You were sub-
merged by the things around you. They were big
and you were small; they were important and you
were not. They were confident in their own strength
and alone you were useless. But it didn’t matter.
You were quite content that way.
David was bending over the fire putting it out
with the cold tea left in the billy. He was frowning
over his task, doing it carefully with a small-boy
earnestness. David always did little things well. He
had a sunburnt face and sun-bleached fair hair.
He had on brief khaki shorts and an old
khaki open-necked shirt. You looked at him,
his frowning forehead, his thin legs—they made
you want to laugh, his legs. You laughed, and
then suddenly you stopped laughing because he was
looking at you. You forgot to be mocking or mis-
chievous, or any one of those moods you’d reserved
for him all the months you had known him. You
forgot to be anything but yourself, and as he came
towards you you suddenly turned and hid your face
among the grass and waited.
The sun shone with a fierce intensity, and, though
David never so much as touched you, you knew he
was bending above you and that all the sunshine in
the world had gathered and imprisoned you both.
V.
IT was queer being twenty-one. Somehow it
shocked you to be such an age. The last few
years had been one quick flash, not like when you
were small and all the months between Christ-
mases had been such ages.
You had found out a lot of
things in the last few years,
like that the right side didn’t
always win and you weren’t
frightened of your mother
and father any more. You’d
found they were just ordi-
nary human beings. You’d
heard Mother tell Father a
lie one day. You couldn’t
believe it at first, then you
had gone and sat on the ver-
andah away from every one
till the tumult in your brain
died down.
Some day you were
going to get married. You
didn’t know when. You had
to wait till David saved up
and you’d managed to gather
sheets and towels and things
for your home. It would be
funny living in any house but
this one. You had always
lived here. You could re-
member when the number
had been on the gate, and
when Father had made at-
tempts to keep order in the
garden. He never tried now
and the grass was very high,
so high that the hydrangeas-
were almost choked out.
The grass was nice to lie
in. You were lying in it now,
and the sun was shining on
you. You shouldn’t be, of
course. You had determined
that when you were twenty-
one you would give up lying
in the sun. There were so many things to be done.
You had to learn to cook and mend, and you had to
work doyleys and tea-towels for your trousseau. But
you couldn’t help being lazy sometimes, and your
embroidery was never much of a success. It didn t
keep clean like Lizbeth s did.
Sometimes you felt sorry for David, because
David thought you did everything so perfectly and
he was such a blind person he’d never even know that
you d i d n’t. You hoped that you’d treat David
squarely and never tell him lies. It was a terrible
thing to tell anyone who trusted you lies,
xhe sun made you dr owsy. It made you that
you d j dn ’ t want to think. The warmth got into you
and be j d you cap ti V e, and you lay dreaming while a
million things waited to be done. But you were so
drugge d you couldn’t remember these things; little
things escaped you ; all you could remember was life
jt se ]f Life, the warmness and sunshine inside you
was and every of life, was terribly, fright-
fuuy important,


two were highwaymen, kidnappers and wanton mur-
derers. To a great extent their criminal careers were
directly traceable to her ; she pampered them, raised
Cain when they began to strike trouble for offences
committed as juveniles, and subsequently advised and
directed them, with the rest of the gang that gathered
to her, in major crime. “One of the easiest weepers
in the history of criminality,” she liked to hum hymns,
while she made a life-business of keeping open house
for criminals and, “with the calm of a person ordering
a meal, brought about bank robberies, hold-ups or
kidnappings, or commanded the slaying of persons
who, only a short time before, had enjoyed what
they thought was her friendship.”
She gave nearly half her lifetime to defiance of the
law and died three years ago, still hating it, a bullet-
heated machine-gun in her aged hands.
She and her son Freddie were finally run to earth
in a luxuriously-furnished, expensively-built house on
the shores of Lake Weir, Florida. As the attacking
G-Men found out during the hot engagement, the
beautiful white house was an arsenal; its armaments
included two machine-guns, two shotguns, three
automatic pistols, drums of ammunition and five
bullet-proof vests. With Mother Barker and Freddie
making a last-stand defence, the G-Men surrounding
the place riddled it with bullets till the answering fire
ceased. Even then, such was the well-merited repute
of mother and son, there was a precautionary bomb-
ing of the place with tear bombs before the G-Men
went in, to find that Freddie had been pierced by
11 bullets, Mother Barker by three. Her machine-
gun, still hot, lay across the grim old woman’s body ;
her pocketbook contained 10,200 dollars.
Wild days followed. Thousands of persons jammed
into the little town of Ocala, 16 miles from the scene
of the battle, crowding about the mortuary where the
bodies had been taken. Ropes were ineffectual to hold
them back. Police were shoved aside. Morbidity rose
to high pitch. The house of Oklawaha was ransacked
by souvenir hunters; finally the owner charged admis-
sion, and the curious paid, as though this were a circus
instead of a tragedy of misused lives.
Meanwhile the husband of this grim old girl and
father of her monstrous brood had throughout been
a decent, peace-abiding citizen, who had left his evil
marital nest after his repeated protests against the
way the lads were being shaped had been laughed
at, and who now is a frail ancient, doddering about the
job of handyman at a roadside filling-station. He
reckons they were good boys when they were little
coves.
Apart from Mother Barker, the most striking
of all the fantastic list is probably Bentz, “almost a
legendary figure in the criminal world.” Bentz, who
“regarded Pretty Boy Floyd as a cheap thug and
John Dillinger as an upstart,” was often paid a con-
sultant’s fee by hardened criminals for examining
their plans for hold-ups. For years his annual intake
from outlawry seldom ran to less than a hundred thou-
sand dollars. One bank he held up for a million
dollars, forcing its liquidation. All golfers have a
certain affinity with him ; he adored the game and
pretty well carried through his ambition to play on
every worth-while course in America. Collectors, too,
are in their hobbies his brethren. He visited book-
shops from coast to coast adding to his fine library
of rare books and old editions. Art held his interest;
so did old coins, amateur photography and the theatre.
In a quarter of a century or so of major crime he
carried his choicest gleanings from those fields about
with him in five large trunks —and, of course, deep
underneath, his four revolvers, his steel bullet-proof
vest, and sometimes a machine-gun.
One thing which Mr. Hooper insists needs to be
grasped is that the criminal does not look upon him-
self as such. His viewpoint is: he wants something,
and that ends the matter. Wanting it, he feels he
should have it.
The old excuse “I did not stop to think” was never
true, although this alibi for crime has worked to the
amelioration of sentences until it is threadbare. The true
statement, which is rarely voiced, is: “I did not stop
to think —of anyone but myself.”
That thought forms the foundation of crime, and it
often is foundational with over-indulgent parents’
egotism; for their children are theirs, the offspring can
do no wrong; to those anointed in selfishness all inter-
ference is persecution. This easily graduates into a
defence complex, which in turn gives way to a viewpoint
akin to that of men at war.
From these or whatever causes, Uncle Sam’s
criminal crop is an enormous one. This head of the
G-Men—U.S.A.’s counterpart of Scotland Yard, if
such a violent rough and tumble can be so classed —
mentions that there is some sort of crime committed
every few seconds in Gahd’s Own Country, and that
one out of every 25 persons in U.S.A. has been finger-
printed for crime. The total of Uncle Sam’s criminal
army, against which the G-Men are at continuous
war, is four million, to which is to be added “a
cemetery of homicide victims, growing at a rate
of a thousand new graves every month.”
Marriage by Arrangement.
Charles Plisniers Nothing to Chance (Boris-
wood ; translation by Pamela Morris) is the first novel
from outside France to win the Prix Goncourt.
Plisnier is a Belgian, but a Belgian may also be,
racially, a Frenchman, and Nothing to Chance, set
in a provincial town between Lille and Amiens, is a
typically French masterpiece.
It is a hard, logical, brilliant piece of work.
Fabienne Fraigneux at 22 had three broken engage-
ments behind her. It is a situation to be met by the
family in council. She must marry at once to save
face; at least she must announce an engagement
before her last ex-fiance could announce his.
Among them, Fabienne. her father and her uncle
the notary choose the head salesman in the father’s
boot-factory, the coming young man. He will not
be able to refuse ; he will safeguard her property.
Fabienne begins the task of subjugating Maxime
Salambeau. He endures agonies of embarrassments,
of pride, of shame. There is the problem of his
unpresentable father the carpenter, of his even more
socially impossible mother. In his new position an
impeccable front must be presented to the world.
Salambeau is made manager of the factory. After
the marriage he grows more confident, reorganises
the factory, edges his father-in-law out of his own
business. He agrees to buy him out, persuades him
to a false valuation as window-dressing for the
taxation officials, then holds him to the letter of the
contract. He has brought the old man to compara-
tive poverty and dispossessed Fabienne’s brother, who
was in Africa.
Fabienne, forced to choose between father and
husband, sides with the latter, for he has control of
the property. She finds marriage with a social inferior
irksome ; he finds his marriage disappointing and
within the year is unfaithful to his wife. His in-
fidelities become an open scandal, and at last Fabienne
discovers that he has been draining the profits from
the business into a private reservoir, that he plans
to leave her with the crippled business, to run away
with his typist and open another factory in Spain.
Humiliated and furious, her mind turns to divorce.
The family council intervenes. She cannot divorce
him ; there is the property. The best that can be done
is to contract for an equal division in the case of
separation.
Fabienne sees at once that whatever happens she
cannot let him go with half her money. She resorts
instead to poison. The doctor whose prescription she
has forged is forced for his own sake to support her.
There is a gratifyingly correct funeral and no sus-
picions. Afterwards Fabienne visits the grave with
widowly correctitude in the profoundest of weeds, and
reflects that by now corruption has made exhumation
impossible. , ,
Fabienne is flanked by two other figures, her
cousins, Marcelle, the notary’s daughter, and Christa,
the banker’s daughter. Among them they form a
comment on marriage, after the manner of Hogarth.
Marcelle, disappointed in her husband, whose exquisite
manners do not extend to his love-making, passes
helplessly from one affair to another, and her romantic
but still unsatisfied harshness contrasts with the grasp-
ing aridity of Fabienne’s life.
Christa is the happy and satisfied woman, and
characteristically has the smallest part in the book.
In youth she ran away with a married man and was
cast out of the family in the approved style, and even
marriage and subsequent respectability could not rein-
state her in that narrow and rigid society. Of all the
characters, Fabienne’s father, who is humiliated by
his daughter at every turn, is perhaps the masterpiece
of the book. He alone evokes pity.
Nothing to Chance is at one with its title. A,
powerful piece of writing, it moves like a diabolical
machine that, once set in motion, cannot be stopped
until it has completed its cycle.
A King of Scotland.
Evan John, best known as a writer of historical
plays, has turned off a large novel, Crippled Splendor
(Nicholson and Watson), which arrives in Australia
labelled with evidence of success overseas. It tells
the story of James I. of Scotland, great-grandson of
Robert Bruce, from the death of his father, Robert
111., in 1406 —an event that was hastened by news that
the 12-year-o!d James had been captured by the Eng-
lish —till his assassination in 1437.
The author dedicates his novel to his hero, and
in the short inscription sets the tone of the book:
“Dedicated to the memory of James Stewart, first of
that name to rule in Scotland, companion-in-arms to
Henry the Fifth, prisoner, poet, musician, soldier, law-
giver, lover and king, of whose strange life and
terrible death the tale is here re-told.” It is a vivid
story. John’s romantic imagination has allowed him
to heighten all the colors and raise everyone’s stature
an inch or two, but a scholarly conscience has pre-
vented him from falsifying historic fact except in
one or two very minor details* to which he confesses
in a postscript.
Although the book is long it is quick-moving. He
gives the history of England, France and Scotland
during a lifetime, the death of Henry IV., the acces-
sion of Henry V., the Hundred Years War from the
battle of Agincourt to the rise of Joan of Arc, quar-
rels and intrigue in France, intrigue and robbery in
Scotland, James’s romantic meeting with Lady Jane
Beaufort, who became his queen, his triumphant return
to Scotland after 18 years’ captivity, his reforms, the
closing net of hostility among his dispossessed nobles
that led to his murder and the famous incident when
Katherine, the Queen’s waiting-woman, barred the
door with her arm.
There is a full quota of pennants, chargers and
knightly gestures, but now and then honesty forces
the writer to raise the handsome cloth and show the
grim reality underneath. War in the fifteenth century
was no less grim than in the twentieth:
Rich citizens could be seen grubbing up dock leaves
in hope of nourishment; girls who had held their heads
high that spring now sold their bodies for a slice of
stale bread. Then those who ate but could not fight—
the old, the women and the children —were thrust out-
side the gate. The English would not let them pass,
and they stayed to perish between the lines. Babies
were born in no man’s-land, hauled up the ramparts
to be christened, and let down again to die in their
mothers’ arms. A few survived, perhaps on un-
authorised scraps passed to them from the English
trenches, and on Christmas Day Henry sent them and
the garrison a meal.
Such was the siege of Rouen; brutality and sen-
timent were nicely blended in the fashion of the day.
Narrative rather than character-drawing is Evan
John’s forte. His people are life-like without being
real. James, like Daviot’s Richard in Richard of
Bordeaux, is made sympathetic by a liberal share of
the virtues fashionable to-day rather than of those
most esteemed in the reign of Henry V. Most' of
the characters are men, and this is fortunate, for
John’s romanticism quite overcomes him when he
mentions women. As for Joan, “She came from, or
rather brought with her, some realm of unimaginable
purity, unmatchable splendor.”
The book ends, rather futilely, with an apology
for “exposing some extremely damaging flaws in the
old tradition of English excellence and honesty, those
acts of cruelty and bad faith which generally disfigure
the relations of a strong nation with weaker
neighbors.”
Reviewed Briefly.
General . . .
Cobbers: Thomas Wood (Oxford University
Press). One of the finest books so far written by any
visitor to Australia, Cobbers has been through eleven
impressions and is now issued in a new edition, re-
vised throughout to correct misstatements of fact, but
with nothing essential altered. The handsome little
edition will sell in Australia at somewhere about ss.
The Army: Brigadier R. H. Dewing (Hodge and
Co.). Uniform with the Navy and Air Force vols.
issued earlier in this series of booklets on Britain’s
national defence. Brigadier Dewing shows how dan-
gerously John Bull’s forces had been weakened
through the pacifist campaigning which followed the
war, and explains how much still remains to be done
before even normal defence safety is achieved.
Flower Portraits: Blanche Henrey (Country Life).
Large-page reproductions of fine photographs of
flowers in striking groupings. A very charming book
for flower-lovers, and one likely to hold considerable
interest and instruction for artists, designers and others
as well.
One-man Caravan: Robert Edison Fulton
(Harrap). Travel per motor-bike over Europe, touch-
ing on Greece and Turkey, thence to India, China and
Japan. A good lively account, with a bright variety
of scene and people.
Punch Summer Number. Norman Mansbridge’s
picturing of an old salt racing through breakfast with
one eye on the clock and pounding along the road to
be on time for staring over the seawall is the funniest
thing seen for donkey’s years. The rest, largely in
color, has the tripper, the dear old lady, Canute,
Squoire and all the famous old company except the
plumber. Perhaps, after leaving “Punch’s” taps on
for 20 years, he’s drowned at last.
Various Verse
Entreaty.
Summer come soon and turn the sickness from my house,
which from sour early darkness, damp wind, spiteful rain,
took shelter beside our fire, and through these months has
lain
like a tame cat on the beds or crept up like a mouse,
or stood at doorways like a stranger’s unwanted dog,
mangy and treacherous —ill comrade to be found
at play with children. So the comfortless time goes round;
and evening coughs cold air and dawn is phlegmed with fog.
Until it seems we must be utterly dispossessed,
unless on the world’s shoulders that swing with the poles and
dip
summer comes cantering south to crack the sun, his whip,
about the lean hindquarters of my yelping, unpleasant guest.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Let Them Be Thanked and Cursed.
Let them be thanked and cursed
Whose deathward blood of gold
So fierily through them coursed
I was afraid, and cold.
Who struck with bloody fist
Mouth sweet as a new frond,
So nothing worse was faced
In all the black beyond.
Who ciushed with hooves of bull
The lilies round that lake
As quiet as a dark bell
Left yet to chime and shake.
Who tramped my sands to rock,
To rock in whose deep ire
Clenched stronger for the wrack
My core of crystal lire.
Thanks, curses for my scars
To those huge golden shades
Whose bones the white wind scours.
Their mirrored memory fades:
Glitters too hard to pass
The diamond pride that scores
My name in time’s cold glass.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
A Spider.
Just as my fingers close about the pen
A spider, smaller than a grain of sand,
Proceeds from nail to knuckle; pauses; then
Starts the vast exploration of my hand.
Tinily tramping through warm wastes it goes
Careless of scimitar hairs and furrowed skin,
Earthquakes of muscle, great volcanic throes
Of blood and flesh beneath; scorning the din
Of steamy nostril-gales that blast its way
From wrist to elbow, where the marble ascent
Of the world-column starts. “Now fail!” 1 say.
It does not pause to wonder what I meant,
But moves up through an atmosphere grown colder
Towards the uncharted mountain of my.shoulder.
11.
No halt, no haste, no passion to return
Distinguishes its going; what it sees
Is not blank heavens where the planets burn
Remote among their stars and centuries,
But swathes and veils and draperies of air
That sink in warmth below it, as it moves
Through these to me invisible, these fair
Textures of space it neither loathes nor loves.
Blessed with design, its life is round and brief —
Movement, creation, hunger, union, death —
Wrenched by no doubt, distressed by no belief,
Troubled a moment only by my breath
Which now, forced hard with sudden jealous laughter,
Hurls it towards the floor it hunted after.
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.


NEW OFFER TO “BULLETIN” READERS
£lOOO in Prizes
Three Big Competitions
£lOOO is to be won by “Bulletin” readers during the next six
months in literary and popular competitions, beginning with:
£lOO Short Story Competition
First Prize £7O
Second Prize . . . £1 5
Third Prize £lO
Brief Story (up to 1500 words) £5
£lOO “Other Fellow’s Mind”
Competitions
Weekly Prizes £3/3/- each
Bonuses £lO each (two)
Payment for all published entries.
£5O (each) Limerick Competitions
First Prize (every competition) ..... £4O
Ten Others (every competition) £1 each
Conditions
*
£lOO Short Story Competition.
Entries can be sent in any time from now till January 31 next. Stories should not exceed
approximately 6000 words, but this limit is not rigid. Entries will be read as they come to
hand, and all considered suitable for publication in “The Bulletin” will be paid for at once at
“The Bulletin’s” high short-story rates. This payment is in addition to the competition prize-
money; prize-winners will get the sums stated, plus this usual payment. The brief story (up
to 1500 words) will be eligible to win any of the other prizes as well. Stories not considered
suitable for publication and given no chance of prize-winning hv the judges will be returned from
week to week, as read, provided stamps are enclosed. Stories accepted, paid for and
published prior to the closing date (January 31) will come up for final judgment along with
those not by that date already published. All accepted stories will have an equal chance of
prize-winning, and any writer may send in as many entries as he or she wishes. There is no
entrance charge.
Begin Sending in Short Story Entries Now.
£lOO "Other Fellow's Mind" Competitions.
These are weekly competitions, with a prize of £3/3/- for the best entry published each week,
a special bonus of £lO for the best entry published in each three months, and additionally
payment at space rates for all entries which are published. "The Bulletin is setting aside up
to a page a week for a selection of the best entries. Literary craftsmanship does not count
in “Other Fellow’s Mind” competitions. All that counts is that the one sending in an entry
really has something to say—something practical, informative and
generally interesting. Competitors can write about anything whatever
on which they feel they have something worth-while to say. The line,
of course, is drawn at indecency, attacks on religion and personal
attacks. No entry should exceed 500 words. Opinions expressed need
not agree with ‘’Bulletin” policy. These competitions are continuous;
therefore “Bulletin” readers, no matter where located, all have the
same chance of winning the weekly £3/3/- prize or the special bonuses.
Any reader may send in as many entries as he or she cares to write.
Begin Sending in “Other Fellow’s Mind” Entries Now.
£5O (each) Limerick Competitions.
The first of these Popular Competitions begins in next week’s Bulletin.
To give readers in distant parts an equal chance with those living nearer
Sydney these will be fortnightly competitions. Thus the one beginning
in next week’s “Bulletin” will close on August 31 (in time for announce-
ment in “The Bulletin” of September 7). For each of these Limerick
Competitions, with a First Prize of £4O and 10 other prizes of £1 each,
an unfinished Limerick will be given and readers will have to add a
last line. What is considered the best concluding line to complete the
Limerick will win the £4O first prize in each competition, and the 10
next best will be awarded £1 each.
See Next Week’s “Bulletin” for the First £5O Limerick Competition.
* 3*,
Vo.
6,
‘lf
SXS/h
4f 0 < o?f <A '<* *
J o(i,
tythe/.. . '" l#
>th tb e
*****
»e L., “ ] >Hcl lat Hon . " w; e £
o/
****
Ue „. fi °^6/ e
’«4/i
'V »
ee<*
" e A (
Si-0
n -«v
**&&Skr**«^
C??* 6?'jrV o<4 'v
*««»
"°6/p
' a «(/ /
■'ll 1
e A
th- It ~, Put /„ "'itfflT'bed » * dt-av'
pApt* *Qd # +t ton P*t **" . l G *W/V,° o^
V^?sA*22«r
ilofilo^ : <T,.r
thefy Lyyttf* the 1 Vo * *° b e
; V'°
X Wsf'fe' o, „
£‘*> uS tb *t S rih A k >oe,*o u % «4
iSSSC'^ISsCL'*
• ?«» „ t/,
*«*2* *""*•
THIS IS THE £5OO. FIRST-PRIZE NOVEL "A HOUSE IS BUILT," BY FLORA ELDERSHAW AND MARJORIE BARNARD.
ABRIDGED BY "THE BULLETIN" FOR SERIAL PUBLICATION.
&
t*
B
•3
CHAPTER 1,
Soundings
AT daybreak oa June 10, 1837, hi*
Majesty's'shipi Intrepid made Port
Jackson, one hundred and ten days
out from Portsmouth, .Her quirfennaster,
Jamea Hyde, waa one of the-first to leave
the ship on shore leave. With his friend
Jacob Jeffries he strolled along the quay,
sampling the wares of the inns aS in honor
bound.
They worked their way to the left, to
the rounded- grassy, hill outside the town;
the one a equate, ruddy man, powerful and
Sine; the other of * lean and melan-
aspect.With a lohs, pale face. They
walked in silence, one thinking .of the
future, the other ofvthe past, after their
w- Norman Lindsa/.
below him the harbor waters glinted in the and tbrnun on the Spot was the man for hiph. It jjas roofed^
winter sunlight. Its great expanse seemed.them: He must get- his own Wharf .f he pamtcd brown ana
almost crowded with the motley craft that could* so that he might be on the waterfront by the • «tretched towards the
lay moored within its sheltering heads, ■'yet • not far from the markets where all . nhrti&Uv enclosed astone-flagged
Square-rigged whalers from the East and the live stock and fodder changed hands. water and Partmlly enclosed a
.South Pacific lay anchored close, to the Afternoon found him' nrowlme *Rs-«*rlv courtyard.
wrhnrv*4 *n«l •«*— *■- —“
No entrance charge whatever is being made tor any of these competitions, and no employee of The Bulletin
Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., is eligible to compete in any of them.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
1
■ 4fcMT WISM
’V, Tx}, ILirS? PC^m-it&ssrx?}&*l*i'* i
llli
;: -:i
BBflflßßl
H 9 two*
„ wwnMlllW
,i,- s ':.
Bi ■
MMI
n
: - •'•• • ; -
H| ■: im
m
■'ll
H^H
mmmmm
i i nra
%
M|HUjj| ■I; : *;■>: \ :; : :;K ; ;SI a .-; Sf.| : j|’
*
a
4
il
II
. ' : ■■ " v
J§l||
-\t >L/' T ~ r ‘ .. 4
mam l
ME*l
ill
filial
m
mm
am
_ .
if.
1
IBHi
*
SStIS
W&WX*
i
s*
-
M
mwdmmSmmm,
.
2
■
M i
■
<■■/1 %V; >■■ - * t- % - i
IgSliigliil
M
iltl,liiM
H
11
m
'■.■i.i :
:
' S|H
■Hi
:• ■;: ■ •• ■ ■■■ ■; . - ■
ssslllii ■ ! : - Bill l jiilii sis sill |iSiiSss|§p
:
,
BHH mm Hi HI H H BIBH BI
Hf;'
. /I
Interior View of One of the Many Vast Storage Cellars ,
c H£ri£'cfWie mellcmiej^xmdImtq/uet


MORAL SUPPORT ALWAYS ON TAP.
“Up you go, Bruin! We’ve told everyone you’ve taken the hill; now take it!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
ALIENS COME; BRITONS GO.
For 11 months to May 31 arrivals in Australia of
migrants from Europe exceeded departures by 6007.
Of the 6007, 2782 were listed as Italians, 1135 as
Greeks, 641 as Yugoslavs, 587 as Poles, 508 as
Germans, 316 as Albanians, 117 as Russians and 69 as
Czechoslovaks. There were no Britons among them ;
the dreary tale was repeated that there had been an
exodus of people of British birth, net loss being 677.
June figures brought that number to 768, and took
the net increase of foreigners for the full year to
7284, of whom 2896 were Italians.
Immigration is one of the matters attended to
by Mr. Thompson, the lone Minister at Canberra.
Alarm having been expressed at the disclosure that the
“net” migrant is a foreigner, Mr. Thompson replied
in effect that there was nothing to worry about; if
the 6000 who arrived in 11 months went on the dole
the effect would be trifling. He added blithely that the
Department of the Interior was being snowed under
by applications from European refugees, “far more
than it can possibly grant” ; that his Government had
no evidence that the landing money required of aliens
was deposited for them by others and lifted when they
were safely inside the country, or that some of the
foreigners made fast time towards relief jobs; that
he anticipated a boom in migration of Britons, and
that if it didn’t happen his Government would have
to undertake a “special investigation,” presumably by
royal commission; and so on.
Mr. Thompson was fallen on heavily from several
quarters. Mr. Curtin told him that in every State
recent arrivals had increased the worries of Ministers
who had to find relief work or “sustenance.” Mr.
Forgan-Smith declared that landing money was sent
to the alien when he had set out on his voyage,
perhaps to Colombo, being transmitted by bank draft
made negotiable at the point of destination. The
Canberra correspondent of the Melbourne “Herald”
group of newspapers, hitherto kind to the Government,
took up the parable.
The landing-money requirements have been virtu-
ally discarded. The department has admitted that it
permits guarantors of alien migrants to provide their
nominees with the required £5O because of the difficulty
of taking money out of Italy and certain other Euro-
pean countries.
Such a migrant does not enter Australia as a man
proved to be of good record and industrious habits.
He can be penniless, and, in such a case, he is a vassal
of those to whom he owes his admission, bound to their
service to work for little or nothing until he has cleared
himself of the obligation.
No official announcement of such an important
change of policy was ever made, either to Parliament or
to the press. The facts have come to light purely by
accident.
About the same time trade-union leaders in Melbourne
and the Chief Industrial Magistrate in Sydney held
forth pertinently on the violation of industrial stan-
dards by aliens, employers and employees, in city and
country. The industrial magistrate declared that
“honest Australians” had been “pushed out of many
industries” because of their inability to compete with
foreigners who broke awards ; that basket-shoe people
had a particularly bad record (this was mentioned also
by two of the Melbourne men); that fines imposed
for breaches of awards had had no effect, and that
the Industrial Court had no power to imprison. In
reply the N.S.W. Minister of Labor (Mr. Mair)
stated that “in 12 months 286 convictions for
breaches of awards have been obtained against aliens,”
and that fines amounted to a mere £6OO, but he implied
that if the average fine was only £2 the Court
was to blame. He pleaded, moreover, that “heavy
penalties” had been inflicted on basket-shoe offenders
and that “in the enforcement of the penalties” some
employers were made bankrupt and others had been
served with warrants and writs of injunction.
In brief, this whole business of alien immigration
has ugly and alarming aspects. Ministers’ own state-
ments raise doubts whether the central Government
can be relied upon to keep undesirables out or local
Governments to protect Australian standards when
undesirables are let in. And there is nothing to warrant
the belief of Mr. Thompson that Britons will come
thronging to Australia ; nor will there be any occa-
sion for a “special investigation” or any other sort of
inquiry if the statistician reports a year hence that
there has been another loss of population of abso-
lutely the best sort.
Australia could get and keep people from
Britain if its Governments adopted commonsense
measures touched with imagination.* In particular
it could get numbers of elderly and not-so-elderly
men retired on pensions from the Royal Navy, the
British Army, the Army in India and the colonial ser-
vices. The climate suits such Britons, and those who
come here, as some have done, find country and con-
ditions, food and people congenial. And to persons
whose income is round £3OO p.a. sterling the favorable
exchange should be an attraction; and an attraction
it would be if they were allowed the whole benefit
of it in a large-minded way. But they have first to
reckon with the fact that £375 Australian will go no
farther here than £3OO sterling will go in Britain—
for one reason, because cost of living in Britain is
not increased by sales tax. And then there is the
question of income tax.
Heavily as rich Britons have to pay in income-tax
and surtax for the privilege of being rich, the
British Government, whatever its party complexion,
is considerate to persons with small and moderate
incomes. For example, a family man with two
children is exempt from tax on a pension of £3OO p.a.,
or on that amount of income from investments. If
he has three children, the exemption rises to £350.
Suppose such a pensioner or investor comes to Aus-
tralia under the comfortable impression that exchange
will give him 25 p.c. more and that exemption from
tax will continue. In a winter of discontent he will
learn that by receiving remittances he has qualified
as a “resident,” and that for residents the Taxation
Departments have rods in pickle. These among
others, as expressed on departmental papers:
Federal income tax is levied on income which is
exempt from income tax in the country in which it is
derived.
N.S.W. special income tax is levied on all income
derived by a resident from any source.... Income from
ex-Australian sources should be attached to the State
return.
Assessable income must be expressed in Australian
currency. Accordingly, the benefit derived or derivable
from conversion to Australian currency of assessable
income from sources outside Australia is taxable, and
any benefits of exchange so derived must be specially
shown.
If the resident stays long enough to receive assess-
ments for the two taxes, he will learn that the special
tax is imposed on gross income, plus exchange, no
allowances being made for Federal tax, life insurance
premiums, doctors’ or dentists’ bills. As a rule, he
doesn’t stay. Yet it is only reasonable to suppose
that he would come, and stay, in thousands if Aus-
tralia gave him the exemption that Britain gives him
and let him make his nominal profit on exchange.
Apart from the cultural and moral strength that
Australia would derive from such immigration, Aus-
tralia would get a bit of legitimate tax-money on every
pound the immigrant spent.
And, if Governments went the right way about it,
Australia could get plenty of sturdy Britons who could
make things that the nation wants and must have.
It needs, for example, ships of all kinds, from
launches and trawlers to cruisers and passenger
steamers for the Pacific trade ; and on the Tyne there
are unemployed thousands, of the tough and enduring
North Country breed, who know how to build them.
Ineffectual attempts have been made by kind-hearted
southrons to alleviate the misery of those stout-
hearted Geordies. Melbourne adopted Villers-Bret.
Why shouldn’t Australia adopt Jarrow, and bring its
whole body of Geordies out to Newcastle or Port
Kembla or Portland or Bowen or Port Pirie or
Albany or the Derwent to build ships for the Govern-
ment on contracts that would keep them occupied for
at least four years? It would mean a wonderful
new life for those stricken people and for Australia a
material addition to its population and its industrial
strength. The British Government would assuredly
help, and active assistance could be expected from
the eminently efficient Australian companies which
are contributing to the manufacture of aeroplanes.
And for finance and administration there could be
no better model than Amalgamated Wireless, whose
progress has never been impeded in the slightest degree
by sealing wax and red tape, although the Common-
wealth holds half the shares plus one.
"Still the Good Work Goes On."
To hand from the Japanese Consulate-General,
Sydney, a transcript of an official document dealing
with Japanese welfare work in occupied parts of
China, and concluding:
These items do not exhaust the list of philanthropic
works carried out by the Japanese in China, and still
the good work goes on.
Another document, also from Japanese sources
in Sydney, embodies the “Case for China” along
with the “Case for Japan”!
As published originally in “Asia” the two “cases,”
presented side by side, begin:
Japan’s Case.
Japan could not possibly follow any course different
from its present policy towards China.
China’s Case.
China could not possibly follow any course different
from its present policy towards Japan.
The deadlock that represents is echoed through both
statements to an extent which indicates that it is going
to be many a long day before real peace returns to
the Orient if each side sticks to what is stated on its
behalf.
For China it is stated that every Chinese feels
that his country’s case against Japan is so clear as
to be self-evident to the world: China is the plain
victim of the aggressions of a militarised neighbor
whose passion for economic and political dominance
over China is a fundamental element of its national
policy. Despite its high officials having repeatedly
disclaimed territorial ambitions, Japan, by concocting
or taking advantage of petty incidents so easy to be
found in provoking circumstances, overruns more and
more of China.
In 1931 a small section of railway was reported
to have been attacked by a few Chinese; practically
overnight the whole of Manchuria was seized by
Japan; it was a planned coup. Then, following the
destruction of Chapei in 1932, Japan advanced into
Jehol and North Chahar in 1933, established puppet
.regimes in Hopeh and Chahar provinces in 1934-35,
invaded Suiyuan in 1936 and last year launched a
savage body-blow at China on the flimsy excuse of
the incident at Lukouchiao, described by London
“Times” as “in all the circumstances, a paltry and
excusable affair, which could have been adjusted with-
out much difficulty.”
On China’s behalf it is also stated that to the
seizure of China’s Manchurian and adjacent provinces
the Chinese people will never become reconciled. It
is admitted that anti-Japanese sentiment has been
intense in China, this being described as a spontaneous
development attributable to unlimited provocation
over decades; and, Japan’s claim to a unique position
and mission in Asia being emphatically rejected, it
is insisted that, further attempts to placate Japan
amounting to a courting of complete national enslave-
ment, China had no option but reluctantly to meet
force with force.
That, briefly, is China’s case, stated so fairly in
this unique Japanese document that Chiang Kai-shek
himself would not hesitate to put his name to it. It
is a case clearly based on moral grounds, and it must
strongly influence all who place moral considerations
above all others.
Japan’s case is bluntly, even grimly, factual. Its
spearpoint is trade, with terrific forces of struggle for
existence backing it. China is a vital factor in Japan’s
commerce. Japan has 80 p.c. of its foreign invest-
ments placed in China ; to Japan trade between the
countries is absolutely necessary to existence. Japan
would be quite satisfied to trade peaceably with China ;
it wants no Chinese territory; it prefers to co-operate
with so important a nation as the Chinese; it would
really like to see China united and peaceable. In this
line of policy Japan finds itself frustrated by frequent
trade boycotts, by a deliberately fostered provocative
attitude, the threatening of Japanese lives and prop-
erty by mob action and the mobilising of armed
forces, the killing of Japanese officers and civilians
legally stationed in China, the violation of trade and
other agreements.
It is argued that, in view of the foregoing, which
was the state of affairs when the China “incident”
occurred last year, Japan had no option but to make
China’s leaders realise the error of their ways and
to not merely chastise but eliminate the anti-Japanese
elements in China. In the case for Japan also figures
the matter of defence; Japan’s fear of a powerful
alliance against its Empire between China and Russia
through the spread of Communism. In this aspect the
invasion of China is a safety-first measure ; an attempt
to stay China’s plotting against Japan, playing off one
foreign country against another to Japan’s detriment,
eventually joining another country in war against the
Japanese Empire.
Admitting that all this Japanese case might have
truth in it, the validity of it is still unacceptable to
those who place simple moral considerations above
all others. The other considerations —those which
make China trade absolutely vital to Japan, and there-
fore the real forces backing the spearpoint of attack
on China —have in them elements of compulsion
against which moral issues are always liable to
crumple. They have increasingly determined Japanese
policy for at least 10 years.
To-day Japan’s population exceeds 68,000,000,
crowded into a living area of 147,000 square miles
and increasing at the rate of a million a year. It is
already the most crowded area in the world in terms
of persons per unit of arable land ; on this basis, twice
as densely populated as China. As far back as 1925
it had already found its industrial markets saturated ;
but the population increase which was the direct out-
come of industrial growth continued, and the abnormal
position now is that every year Japan has a million
additional mouths to feed and 250,000 new jobs to
find. Where saturation point has not only been reached
but is of 10 years’ standing already, all that increase
doubling in the meantime, the pressure force
represented is plainly irresistible, moralities or no
moralities.
That in the final analysis is the real basis of
japan’s case. It means that Japan’s invasion of China
is far from being the mere wilful militarist adventure
that superficial observers represent it to be. It is a
grim symbol of struggle for existence, a terrific form
of pressure which, because it is already there in Japan
and therefore nothing else can be done to allay it,
must continue to shape Japan’s foreign policy in the
direction of economic expansion, even though another
war with Russia —the beginnings of which are hope-
fully described by newspapers every time there is
shooting in debatable land —be one of the conse-
quences.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
They Want a Russian Alliance.
Mr. R. W. G. Mackay, formerly a Sydney solicitor,
returned recently with the report that the Chamber-
lain Government is the worst that Brtain has had since
the days of Lord North, and that Australia will have
to return New Guinea to Germany. Though of no
Labor note in Australia, Mr. Mackay three years ago
stood as a Labor candidate for the Frome division of
Somerset and was defeated by one of the nine ladies
returned at that election. Presumably he has been
nursing the electorate since.
The reference to New Guinea caught Mr. W. M,
Hughes’s eye, and the old man replied in good set
terms. On that question he can still take care of
himself in any company, and the young gentleman
from Somerset chose not to tackle him.
Mr. Mackay was next heard from over the air.
The gates of radio stations are always open for Left
Wing pilgrims, Pink professors and the like, though
defenders and even expounders of the Chamberlain
appeasement policy, supported though it is by Mr.
Lyons, Mr. Butler and Mr. Forgan Smith, don’t seem
to be wanted. The returned-for-ten-minutes
wanderer boasted that British Labor would win 100
to 150 seats next time. In a burst of candor he
described the Conservatives as nationalists and the
Laborites as internationalists, adding that, while the
nationalists were for the nation’s minding its own
business (he didn’t put it that way, of course), his
internationalists were in favor of an alliance with
Russia.
How utterly mad this would be was illustrated
when Russians and Japanese started fighting for a
disputed hill on the Manchuria-Siberia frontier. An
alliance with Russia would mean that Australia
would be a bewildered party to a war arising out of
any such obscure scrimmage, and for Russia it would
assuredly flame into a war on two fronts. In a war
on one front, Russia was horribly beaten in 1914-16.
It mobilised Poles, Letts, Estonians, Finns and
Lithuanians then ; it would be without such auxiliaries
if it took on Japan and Germany, and without all
the marshals and generals whom the Red Govern-
ment has been shooting.
In language strikingly reminiscent of that em-
ployed in the same quarters in 1914, newspapers have
been cracking up the Mighty Soviet War Machine,
ignoring the moral factor. They have also been
spreading the tale that Japan has exhausted itself in
its campaigns in Ghina. It was made painfully evident
at Changkufeng that this is very far from being the
case. The truth seems to be that the Japanese
have been fighting Chiang Kai-shek and his Com-
munist allies with second-class troops and reserving
their strongest forces for a struggle with Russia. This
probably won’t happen, for Japan can scarcely want
it, and, although the Red propaganda machine went
into action at once, if Stalin and his military advisers
sought to avenge the loss of Changkufeng by starting
a war on the grand scale they would be quite mad.
But the British Commonwealth of Nations must
be freed from the danger of being involved by the new
interventionists in a war for the defence of the power
that cracked up so suddenly in the Crimea and in
Galicia, and which is still Tartar when scratched. One
way of averting this peril would be for Mr. Lyons to
give Mr. Mackay a message to carry back to his inter-
nationalist friends, by stating publicly that Australia
will in no circumstances be a party to an alliance
with the Red republic.
Too Much Taxation.
Victoria's 1936-37 surplus, of £21,000, was the first
for eight years. Mr. Dunstan reports that there was
another, £30,000, in 1937-38, and he is budgeting for a
third —£29,000. The people from whom he expects to
collect it are not turning handsprings at the prospect.
Last year there was a 20 per cent, reduction in
unemployed-relief-tax rates. Nevertheless, collections
amounted to £1,971,000, and though the money was
used in all sorts of ways expenditure was less. There
is to be another cut of 6 p.c., which is not nearly
enough.
In taxation of incomes £3,977,000 was dragged
from the pockets of the people—£43B,ooo more than
the estimate—and £4,100,000 is the estimate for 1938-
39. It is far tod much. But the thought that the
people can make a better use of the money taken un-
necessarily from them than Government can never
occurs to Australia’s unnecessary Dunstans.
Soil Erosion in N.S.W.
The N.S.W. Government has entered on pioneering
work to deal with erosion, and not before it was time.
Reckless destruction of timber and injudicious methods
of ploughing on heavily soiled slopes have turned a
lot of good land into waste. Overstocking has every-
where had an effect on some lands; but the west and
the mid-west have suffered most. In the western
division, scourged by droughts, sheep numbers have
fallen from 16,403,000 to under 5,000,000 within 40
years.
The Government’s measures aim first at preserv-
ing vegetation in the catchment areas of Hume.
Wyangala and Burrinjuck. Lighting of fires ana
destruction of timber will be controlled. In districts
subject to erosion, demonstrations of correct methods
of ploughing will be given to groups of farmers. A
special erosion service will be created under a director,
with a skilled staff. Until this is formed and a
thorough investigation is made of the whole problem,
the course which the Government will take will not
be fully determined.
The job is not easy. Matters have gone so far
in some districts that nothing short of restoring the
subsoil would make the land worth while again.
In most districts which suffer, however, the
farmer himself can do more than the Government to
protect- the soil —by pasture improvement, limitation
of stock, rotational grazing, care in ringbarking,
preservation of shelter belts of timber and skilful
contour ploughing.
In Europe little erosion is seen. There they have
learnt to value soil. In England there is not a creek-
bank which is not carefully protected against wash-
aways.
In Australia, as in U.S.A., there has been no
policy of conservation. Parts of other States have
suffered as much as N.S.W.—particularly the Mallee
in Victoria and areas of S.A. where the rabbit has
had a long innings. Soil protection is really a national,
and not a provincial, matter.
Two Gardiners.
The light that beats on industrial-law enforcement in
N. S. Wales, faint as a rule, has flashed suddenly
and powerfully on two Gardiners —Mr. Reuben Gar-
diner and Mr. J. H. Gardiner.
Mr. Reuben Gardiner runs what he is pleased to
call the Plaza Hotel, a congeries of cafes, bars and
bottle joints which forms what not only prohibitionists
but artists regard as the most hideous feature of the
hideous entrance to Wynyard station, A
weatherbeaten sign on that eyesore proclaims that this
is the site for the new Hotel Plaza,” but for years
Wynyard station travellers have given up wondering
when the Hotel Plaza will start rising above one storey
and who can be held responsible for the ghastly
appearance of the station entrance. What deepens the
mystery is that the Railway Department itself sells
cooked food and wine at Wynyard.
The light that flashed on Reuben was connected
with a case in the Industrial Magistrate’s Court. He
was charged with having worked two cooks and a
kitchenman from 3 a.m. to 9 p.m. on Anzac Day.
with breaks only for meals. For the union it was
said that he had been convicted again and again for
breaches of industrial awards. He pleaded guilty, and
the Chief Industrial Magistrate fined him £3O and
£3 15s. costs. Said the Chief Industrial Magistrate:
I have grown weary of this man's excuses. He has
a most unenviable record for breaking awards. On
the last occasion I warned him that the next time he
appeared I would order an injunction against him.
This time I will take into consideration the fact that
it was Anzac Day and will not order the injunction.
Next time I will have that unpleasant duty to perform.
Mr. J. H. Gardiner is chairman of an alleged
County Council which sells electric light and power
in Sydney and adjoining neighborhoods and charges
more than a private company in the same business.
A comparatively recent improvisation, it has been
noted chiefly for employing Personality Girls tor
advertising in a Labor paper published in Adelaide
(where it has no customers), for keeping an advertising
staff going, though it is getting advertising done
through outside agents, for whining that con-
tractors who provide it with gear put their heads
together and for demanding the removal of protective
duties. At the beginning of the week it was believed
to be about to give a German concern a contract for
which Britons had tendered.
Mr J. H. Gardiner’s “County Council” struck a
blow at the Returned Soldier Preference Act by
placing a 20-35 age limit on jobs for which it invited
applications, and during the week in which Mr.
Reuben Gardiner appeared before the Chief Indus-
trial Magistrate Mr. J. H. Gardiner came out as an
impudent critic of preference.
On August 4, the 24th anniversary of the Empire s
entrance into the war, Mr. J. H. Gardiner was thus
quoted by the “Daily Telegraph”:
These soldiers may have gone away and fought 24
years ago, but what does that matter? This is o
and we want efficiency in business.
Then why doesn’t the County Council practise it?
It was only a war and there will be other wars.
Why should we have to give preference to men who
fought in a war when I was a kid?
One very good reason is that it has been accepted
by the Australian people as a fair thing. A second
reason, which ought to appeal to even County Coun-
cillors, is that it is State law.
“I do not employ any returned soldiers in my
own business,” said Mr. J. H. Gardiner finally. Mr.
J. H. Gardiner is in the oil business, Mr. Reuben
Gardiner in the neck-oil business.
Mr. Reuben Gardiner’s case calls for an amend-
ment of the licensing law which would admit of
convictions for breaches of industrial law being
endorsed on the license —at least in the case of hotel-
keepers conducting businesses on Government property.
If Mr. J. H. Gardiner persists in flouting the
re turned-soldier preference law, in the spirit or in
the letter, his “County Council” should be struck off
the list of what Mr. Stevens calls “semi-Government
authorities” ; and the sooner the better.
"Jews as Immigrants."
The writer of this thoughtful letter, a Sydney man,
prefers to be anonymous:—-
Surprising though it may seem, it is a fact that many
Australian Jews find in your articles on Jewish migration
much with which to agree. This is quite logical since, should
an undesirable element enter the country on this present wave
of sympathy, the main sufferers would be the members of the
present Jewish community, whose status must inevitably be
affected.
But in B. 27/7/’3B you suggest that none of the countries
represented at the Evian Conference was willing to do anything
beyond “passing the buck” to Empire countries. That is not
true. The South American republics, the U.S.A., France,
certain Balkan States and Scandinavia amongst other non-
British countries have, even within the past 1- months,
accepted more Jewish migrants than would come into the
whole of the Empire in a generation.
Next you ask whether any Australian has ever seen a
Jewish “slavey.” Passing over the rather gratuitous use ol
that unhappy term, one can reply affirmatively. There arc
some in Australia to-day who could say that they have
doctors of economics or of philosophy thus employed; and
this correspondent can, with equal truth, refer to a Jewisi
domestic employed some 20 years ago in the strictly Aryan
home that he then occupied.
You write of Palestine and confine your remarks to
statistics without attempting to interpret your own figures
You show that over 15 years the Moslem population increased
to the same extent (though in lower ratio) as did the Jewish
population. The Jews, we know, came mainly with Zionist
assistance under the British declaration; why did the Moslems
come? In how many years —or centuries previously did the
Moslem population increase by more than a quarter ot a
million? Is it unreasonable to suggest that the Moslems cam
in the wake of the prosperity created by the Jews. It that
is the case, it is not unique; history has noted that prosperity
follows the Jews. ~ ,
Your list of Jewish revolutionaries cannot be disputed,
it might well have been longer. There have been Jews at the
head of many a revolution in the past. One Jew, Jesus ol
Nazareth, headed a most far-reaching revolt in Palestine nearly
20 centuries ago. But if you press that point, you must
also admit that there have been as many or more Jews at or
near the head of the counter-revolutionary movements. Disraeli,
a Jew by birth and breeding, was not the least conservative
Prime Minister to serve Great Britain.
If vou aim merely at the exclusion of “undesirable Jews,
every Jew in Australia will applaud you. If the list of desu-
able qualifications be drawn without any question of religion
entering, then the Jews will assist The Bulletin in the drafting
and, you may be assured, they will demand a higher standard
than would you yourselves.
Fix your quota where you will; make it as high as you
can for humanitarian reasons, and also because a good Jew is
a good citizen. Then, when you have arrived at your quota,
leave the selection of the individuals to the Jews themselves.
You will have no need to fear the importation of a Trotsky or
a Radek—rather may you hope for sober, industrious and
skilled craftsmen of varied trades ready to obey the laws ol
their country of adoption, ready, as soon as those laws permit
to seek naturalisation, and ready to serve that country at all
times and in whatever manner may be required.
Unification and One Capital.
When it became evident that, as a measure of safpt),
administrative headquarters in New Guinea should
be moved from Rabaul, a committee consisting of
Brigadier-General Griffiths, a former Administrator,
W. C. Thomas, a Treasury officer, and L. C. Thornton,
a civil engineer, traversed the Mandated Territory
from end to end in search of a new capital site.
It recommended that Lae, on the Markham
River, should be the capital, that Salamaua, 20 miles
away, should be a subsidiary port connected with Lae
by road, and that a road should be built up the Mark-
ham Valley, where there is good country and grades
are easy.
But all its recommendations and warnings have
been tossed overboard.
The committee chose Lae as a capital because it
possesses abundant land, terraced and suitable foi
European occupation ; plenty of building material in
the neighborhood ; height enough to be out of reach
of tidal waves; and a vast natural aerodrome from
which virtually all the heavy machinery now in use
on the goldfields has been flown. It is free of fevei
The committee’s report on Salamaua as a capital
site is devastating. The harbor “is not good,
it can be made reasonably effective; the town is built
on a “low-lying isthmus,” there being insufficient land
for expansion incident to the establishment of admini-
strative headquarters; the terrain, which lies at
the mouth —and partly on the old bed of the
Francisco River, is subject to tidal waves. It is a
native tradition that the isthmus on which the main
town stands was formed by one in 1888. Guinea
Airways rejected the aerodrome area as their main
airport because it became a quagmire in rain, and in
order to lift heavy loads over the mountains it was
necessary for ’planes to go out to sea to get elevation.
The committee declares that “this aerodrome
area and, to a lesser extent, Kila are, in spite of
anti-malaria measures, definitely and continuously
malarial.”
The type of malaria is a malignant sub-tertian with
a tendency to the development of blackwater fever.
And on this spot Mr. Hughes and his satellites
would dump down the administration offices and
bungalows at a cost of £350,000. Also, Parliament has
approved of a guarantee for a loan to build a road
from Salamaua to Wau, which may be up to 100 miles
long. The committee estimated the cost of 20 miles
of road over comparatively easy country from Lac
to Salamaua at £150,000. Mr. Hughes proposes to
build a road which will climb 5000 feet in a few
miles, and then skirt the precipices at 5000 to 7000
feet, for from 50 to 70 miles, for the same amount.
What his chances are may be judged from the fact
that 12 miles of 12ft. track, with grades of 1 in 9,
between Wau and Edie Creek cost £24,000. And the
new road will do nothing to open up the interioi-
lands of the Ramu or the Markham, and haulage on it
is likely to cost much more than the 2|d. per pound
at which freighting contracts from coast to gold-
fields can be had from Guinea Airways.
This sorry blunder should go no further. The
two territories should be united —they would make
a respectable dependency—with Moresby as the safe
and natural capital.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.E.”: At the inquiry concerning the
death of the miner killed by a fall of
coal in the Aberdare Central pit, N.S.W.
(B. 27 /7 / ’3B), the Cessnock coroner
praised the rescue work of the poor
chap’s mates. (Bullocking away under a
threatening mass of coal, they saved his
brother, who was buried for eight hours.)
He went on to say that such efforts richly
deserved Royal Humane Society medals,
but none ever came to Cessnock.
During 20 years on this field, no awards
have been made for rescue work in the
mines.
Actually, on the day of the inquest two
Victorians, one a constable, shared in a
distribution of Royal Humane Society
awards for going down an abandoned
shaft and bringing up a body. Still, it
is true that fellows who pull surfers out
of the ocean have a far better chance
of getting medals and purses —infinitely
so if there’s a girl in it —than miners who
labor for hours in imminent danger of
death in one frightful form or another,
showing in the noblest shape what
Napoleon called two-o’clock-in-the-morn-
ing courage. And, of course, they get
stacks more newspaper publicity. Per-
haps that’s the explanation. Miners are
not dashing figures of romance. Black
with coaldust or foul with mullock, and
cased in togs at which flappers and knuts
would shudder, they lack sex appeal.
And yet it has never been alleged of any
rescue party of miners that an imprisoned
mate gasped out his life while they were
engaged in a local equivalent of a beauty-
chorus stunt, as it was alleged that a
poor devil was drowned o*ff a beach on
which lifesavers were doing their Greek-
god stuff.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Hoarding of gold by
Asiatics (B. 3/8/’3B) is not “a relic of
the white man’s financial methods since
the days of John Company in Asia,”
but is an age-old custom which gives
world finance a headache to-day. It was
one way of dodging the “help yourself”
taxation methods of the Oriental poten-
tate, for it could be, and is to this day,
buried at a moment’s notice. India is
the gold sink of the world. Yearly huge
shipments of gold bullion go to India.
There it disappears from circulation.
Some of it is supposed to go to the
secret reserves of bankers. The rest
is probably added to the vast hoards of
princes.
“Liq. Strych.”: Tell “T.” (B. 3/8/’3B)
that doctors use Latin in prescriptions—
or at least some of them have told me
so—because it is the nearest thing to a
universal language in existence and its
use ensures that a prescription given in
Macquarie-street can be made up in
Santiago or Buda. Something in that I
dare say, but it does not explain why the
cabalistic signs for quantities which are
part Latin and part faithful depictions
of the spirochete are also employed.
sjc *
“Old Q.”: That reference (B. 3 /8/ ’3B)
to the publisher of Burkes Landed Gentry
who is canvassing the Australian county
families for inclusion in his volume —
for a consideration reminds me that
an enterprising chap worked Queens-
land in the same way in pre-war years.
He confined himself to the squattocracy,
such as it was, and asked £25 down as a
preliminary fee before enrolling his man
—arms, pedigree, etc., were to be pro-
duced on payment of further fees—and
a final £25 was asked on completion of
the book. In past days Queensland had
been full of scions of old county families,
but the years, plus droughts, had weeded
most of these out. Still, their tradition
remained, and the glorified cockies and
storekeepers who replaced them came
at the bait eagerly. It is sad to reflect
that after having collected some hun-
“’ E's bin goin' to them mannequin parades .”
dreds of family details and several thou-
sand pounds, the genealogist fled, leaving
no trace behind of his great work or the
cash he had collected for it.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Premier Ogilvie, of
Tasmania, has set an example which is
well worth the attention of other States,
and of Canberra. His Government has
bought the ketch Eveline May, and is
having her converted into a teaming
craft for teaching practical seamanship
to unemployed lads. She will earn a
useful living at "fisheries investigation,
tourist trips, and entertainment of dis-
tinguished visitors who like a spot of
fishing, but her main and essentially
valuable job will be that or reviving and
training that spirit of seamindedness
which, in past days, led so many Tas-
manian boys to develop into first-rate
deepwater sailormen.
* # *
“T.”: In a thumbnail biography of
Jack Dunningham, a Bulletin para-
graphist mentioned that he was the only
N.S.W. bookmaker who had become a
Cabinet Minister, and the only N.S.W.
bookmaker recommended for a knight-
hood. In England there died not long
before Dunningham an Australian book-
maker who, in his way, rose as high as
Jack o’ Randwick. Perth knew him in
the nineteen hundreds as Bert Gutmann.
He had a partner, Charlie Watson, from
Cockaigne, and largely because of their
fine personal qualities—Gutmann was a
very likeable Jew with the competence of
his race —they had the most prosperous
business of its kind in the West. Gutmann
sold out and went to India, where he
made more money at his calling. He
turned up in England before the war,
changed his name by deed poll to Good-
man, and did a spot of soldiering. In
1931, as Colonel Goodman, of Camber-
ley, and squire of Old Dean Hall, he
entered the Commons as Conservative
member for North Islington, being re-
elected in 1935. A previous Commoner
who had held the bag was Gully, the
fighting man. But, wealthy as he became,
Gully was denied one distinction reserved
for Goodman —membership of the exclu-
sive Carlton Club.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Dangerous as the
job looks from below, accidents through
falls are rare amongst the nervy gentry
who stroll casually along six-inch girders
a hundred feet above the ground,
shouldering a heavy tool, or swing non-
chalantly from a crane, one hand on
the wire rope and one foot in a loop.
The same applies to their brethren of the
High Places who admire the view from
little seats hung by a rope to the top of
a lofty smoke-stack, or hop casually
on to a narrow sill to clean the windows
of a skyscraper building. The greatest
risk in Blondining, as they call girder-
walking, is wind —not while it blows,
because the walker leans into it to keep
his balance, but when it stops suddenly
and he can’t recover his balance
sufficiently quickly. They can keep the
job, so far as I’m concerned, high wages
and all.
* t *
“Oran”: Yet another correction for
Idriess. Writing on the north-west he
mentions the “distant barking of station
cattle-dogs.” “I’d like him to know,”
says an indigenous cattleman indignantly,
“that we don’t use dogs for cattle in the
West Kimberleys. The cattle are rounded
up by stockmen. If he heard dogs they
were down at the blacks’ camp.” He
had just made a visit to the camp and
ordered the removal of the majority of
the 70-odd dogs he found there, iso
nobody need doubt that Idriess heard
barking.
:J4
“S.T.S.”: S.A. has had a preliminary
taste of what must be expected when
countless passengers by air get careless
about dropping things overboard. A
lin. nut deeply dented an iron roof in
an Adelaide suburb, and was sent on for
examination at the Parafield aerodrome,
which disowned it as not being marked
like those used for aircraft. However, as
it certainly fell, and as the Melbourne
’plane was certainly passing overhead at
the time, “it is believed that the nut
might have been left on the floor of the
cabin and fallen out.”
* * * *
“Shep”: Souvenir hunters, is it (B.
3/8/’38)? With the thaw after the big
Somme freeze-up we came back to the
outskirts of Delville Wood, and had our
first experience of the tank in motion.
Others we had seen around Flers were
ruined monuments to the crews who were
caught in them. This tank was plough-
ing through the mud, and at the end of
our sunken road petered out of petrol
just about dusk. One of the crew was
left to guard it, the others departing for
the warmth and comforts of further back.
But, despite the guard, it was discovered
in the morning that someone had neatly
gouged out a disk from the copper petrol
container in the innards of the fighter,
and the tank had to stay put till a new
container was secured from miles back.
Probably the souvenir, duly inscribed,
now adorns some Digger’s mantelpiece,
where the kids can see what Daddy did.
*!• v -k $
“Pawang”: There is only one way in
which the young man in New York could
have been prevented from throwing him-
self from that 17-storey building. Traffic
should have been stopped out of his sight
by barricades, all sightseers, cameramen,
broadcasters, psychiatrists, psychoana-
lysts, alienists and suchlike fowl kept
rigidly at a distance, and well-intentioned
relatives warned off with machine-guns.
A few selected individuals on foot or
in motor-cars should have been sent along
the street to convey to the wretched man
that the world was still spinning, oblivious
of his unique individuality. He would
very speedily have lost hope of making
a hit by dashing his heated brain out
on the pavement. By announcing his in-
tention to suicide and climbing out on
the parapet, he had committed himself.
To maintain his prestige in his own eyes
he had to go through with it. Everything
that the idiots did who clustered round
him, imploring him to desist, was to
confirm him in the necessity for justifying
his first impulse, which was merely dic-
tated by the universal human desire to
make an impression on other people.
* $ * *
“Don Alfonso”: Though there are
comparatively few Spaniards in Aus-
tralia (about 1200 all told), they are linked
with its aviation history. Spanish Bene-
dictine monks established New Norcia
(W.A.), which has outposts at Drysdale
and Forrest River. The Benedictines at
Drysdale were instrumental in saving the
lives of Bertram and Klausmann, the
two German fliers who were lost on the
nor’-west coast. Turn to Melbourne,
where the father of the Spanish colony
was Stephan Parer, who arrived in 1856,
and sold pies to the late birds. He was
followed to Australia by two brothers,
and they all took over Duke’s Hotel in
Bourke-street, where they opened a
restaurant, still in existence. It was a
descendant of these Parers who flew with
Mclntosh to Australia in 1920.
“S.T.S.”: Something quite new in
pram-pushing has been done by ; a young
couple from St. Kilda (Vic.) who, each
wheeling one, conveyed their belongings
and their babies (18 months and six
months) the 600 miles to Adelaide. They
took six weeks over it, and arrived badly
in need of new shoes. Some work at
Portland (Vic.) and Millicent (S.A.)
helped them on, the weather was good,
and milk and a night’s shelter for, at
any rate, the babes were offered every-
where. Also, the press publicity given
to their feat brought them a shower of
gifts on their arrival in the Adelaide hills.
“S.”: The anti-bed crusader in Sundry
Shows (B. 3/ 8 /’3B) who pointed out the
epidemic of the objects in current talkies
has my sympathy, especially after seeing
in Sydney “I Met My Love Again,”
where it wasn’t a glamorous bride in
flimsy but a dear old mountainous aunt
in calico who leapt exotically from her
couch. Not the beds, but the barrage of
buttons, got my goat in the second half
of the programme —“The Divorce of
Madame X.” Like most people who
prefer to tunnel into their pyjama coats
or half kick their legs off trying to get
rid of their shoes, I have a phobia about
buttons and bootlaces dating from an im-
patient childhood, so that when Merle
Oberon rushes into bedroom, undoes one
pyjama-coat button, tears into bathroom,
undoes it again, gallops back to bedroom,
repeats, and then doffs, dons, doffs, dons
slippers 27 times I begin to eat my pro-
gramme in my fury. I’ll bet myself a new
zip-fastener that you can’t see a talkie
these days in which someone or other
doesn’t start laboriously to disrobe. It
doesn’t really matter to me, except that l
hate to suspect that talkie directors are
getting completely button-minded.
TEN BOB A TIME.
“The Speaker of the N. S. Wales Assembly said
that it had come to his knowledge that outside
persons were prepared to write speeches at 10s. a
time for members to deliver on any bill.”
A mere ten bob for a stirring speech
Is a price that’s clearly within the reach
Of the humblest legislator-birds
Who’re slow at clothing ideas in words.
A mere half-quid for a crisp harangue
Debunking Stevens or flaying Lang!
Why, it’s even less than the figure that
A bottle of whisky’s valued at.
What a matchless chance for a bargain prime
At the bagatelle of ten bob a time!
It matters little what themes or things
Are being discussed by our Ninety Kings.
From soil erosion or hawking shares
Right down to the duds the surfer wears
(Or should), be you Nat. or Cocky or Lab.,
You can always purchase a decent slab
Of dialectical pork and beans
From some shadowy bloke outside the scenes,
And dish it up, when it’s conned by rote,
As your own production—for half a note.
You’ll hear them murmur, admiring friends,
You’ve the crux of the thing at your fingers’
ends,
And foes will listen in mild amaze
To the telling point and the well-turned phrase;
While your stock will rise, it’s as sure as fate,
With the “Hansard” scribes and the Fourth
Estate,
And electors deem it a lucky day
When they turned you into an M.L.A.
So, rung by rung, the ladder you’ll climb
For the modest fee of ten bob a time.
Though, left to yourself, you might hem and
halt,
There’ll be wit and wisdom and Attic salt,
Logic and zip in the stuff you buy
From the trusty souls who such goods supply.
Sound sense will flow from your mobile mug,
As beer comes gurgling out of a jug.
If you fee those chaps that the Speaker knows
For practised dealers in vibrant prose,
Who’ll frame a speech on whate’er they’re bid
For the honorarium of half a quid.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Mac Hoots”: Never in all ma life
have I had such miraculous pocketfuls
of bawbees as in Sydney. In such heathen
countries as Maoriland and England the
wee bit’s about as rare as the farthing,
but here, every time I dip my hand for a
bob for a biter, oot pops a ha’penny. I
presume it’s because the daily papers
cost Iyd. that there are so many coppers
in circulation, so let those who criticise
the press remember that this week alone
their co-operation has enabled me to miss
two hot baths and drink cold water for
breakfast on the same two mornings
through having a pocketful of ha’pennies
but not a thing that would fit the gas-
meter. The coins are useful, too, when
you don’t want to use a public telephone.
* * * *
“Avon”: The experience of a Sydney
weekly journal (not The Bulletin) which
sent a subscriber a copy of the paper
with one page blank is a reminder of
the perturbation occasioned in a ML.
daily’s editorial sanctum when someone
posted back the previous day’s issue with
a covering note that said, “Evidently
there’s a screw loose somewhere in your
paper.” Visions of libel actions and
heavy damages were dispelled, however,
when the paper was opened out. Em-
bedded right in the middle of the editorial
page was a small screw, mashed nearly
flat, which evidently had gone right
through the Hoe press.
'■'* * . * *
“Louden”: There appeared on a
hoarding in our suburb a Liquor
Trades poster urging Vic. voters to
oppose prohibition. It read: “Vote No
(X) on October 8.” During the night
some anti-booze enthusiast got busy with
brush and paint, and the poster now
reads: “Vote No XXX on October 8.”
* * *
“Kwakprak”: Except for a few
pygmy strains and a smaller fraction
of giant ones, the normal stature
of the whole human race does not vary
more than 15 inches. The reason is a
little piece of tissue under the base of the
brain, called by anatomists the pituitary
gland, and only the foremost few grains
of it at that. If the tiny amount of
secretion which it puts into the blood is
deficient, its proprietor will be a dwarf.
If it is excessive, he or she either becomes
a giant or develops the condition called
acromegaly, which is a sort of partial
giantism. If my pituitary gland had gone
wrong, I’d sooner have had it lie down
on the job than overdo it. Dwarfs are
far happier, cheerier, brighter people than
giants, and acromegaly is an uncomfort-
able kind of complaint. The same little
gland also controls the bodily and mental
changes at puberty, the secretion of milk
before and after childbirth, and quite a
few other important human details.
Cancer-researchers are paying a lot of
attention to it and its precise pos-
sibilities.
* * * *
“Old Pro.”: Sydney newspapers have
been giving space to correspondents who
say that after a motor accident a per-
fectly sober man may show symptoms in-
distinguishable from those of alcoholic
intoxication. They are quite right, as any
racing cyclist can testify. It was a com-
monplace of track experience in the days
when I gyrated round asphalt saucers
that a lad who took a spill involving a
smart rap on the head might be expected
to behave like a fighting drunk when he
got on his feet again. These were chaps
in training and therefore teetotal. There’s
another aspect of the matter that com-
plicates judgment in such cases the
sobering effect of sudden shock. I have
“ Don't worry, mate; I'll get it right if I have to do it a hundred times."
“I know you sailors, Captain. Don't tell me you didn't do that on purpose!"
in mind a case where a man was so
drunk when he took his seat in a car
(he wasn’t the driver) that he couldn’t
sit upright on the seat. Brakes gave way
on a hill, and death loomed for five
minutes or so. The car crashed a hill-
side near the bottom and overturned.
Nobody was hurt beyond a few
scratches, but the alcohol had oozed
right out of the drunken passenger, who,
beyond a certain pardonable shakiness,
would have passed as stone-sober.
“Surviving Pedestrian”: It would be
heresy to doubt the veracity of those
eminent motoring authorities who say
that speed is not a prime cause of motor-
ing accidents, and that a speed of 50 or
60 miles an hour is more often than not
safer than half that velocity. The animus
of Judges, juries and magistrates against
drunken drivers, of course, is due to the
well-known fact that persons under the
’fluence can’t drive fast enough to be
safe. If they were going fast enough
they wouldn’t be able to climb on to the
footpaths and slay old women and chil-
dren there. T’other morning in Sydney
there was a regrettable case of tardy
driving. Two youths who had borrowed
a total stranger’s car were chased by a
police-patrol chariot. They were being
rapidly overhauled when their vehicle
collided with a telegraph pole, and flew
into bits, some of which plumped through
the wall of a house 40 yards away and
knocked two young ladies clean out of
bed. One of the fugitive youths was
killed; the other was badly injured.
Something must be done to stop this
disastrous habit of slow driving.
* * * *
“Fiona”: I can assure “Nakhoda” (B.
3/8/’3B) that it’s quite a habit with Syd-
ney women to walk abroad with their
worldly wealth attached. In a large pro-
portion of the bag-snatching reports it
is revealed that the lady had in the lost
bag not only her money, but her watch,
sundry rings and a bracelet or two. I
know a woman who has for years car-
ried a £5OO string of pearls in a com-
partment of her handbag. It is not only
fear of burglary that causes owners of
valuables to carry them round instead
of leaving them in empty flats and houses,
but a dread of fire.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Is modern athletic
youth becoming physically over bred, too
highly specialised to stand up to physical
strain other than that to which they are
trained? Six feet of footballing, swim-
ming gymnast, a 20-year-old nephew,
came up to us for a holiday from the city
office. With axe and crosscut he put in a
willing if unskilful morning on the wood-
heap, remarking that it was wonderful
training, and earning the solid approval
of the real ruler of this household. In
the afternoon we took an eight-mile walk
over the range, partly to let him see how
the timber-getting lads earn a crust with
such tools. Certainly we got wet through
on the way back, and Bill’s feet gave out
because they were used to city pavements,
not rough ground. He spent next day in
bed, but why should I have been accused
of working the poor boy to death? “You
forget,” said the ruler after Bill’s later
effort at postholes, with like result, “he
only plays games.” Which seems to
explain these alwavs-ailing cricketers.
$ V ; i : #
“Mak”: Fifty years ago archery was
popular among some people in Mel-
bourne as well as in Adelaide (B.
27/7/’3B). The late Frederick Sargood
ran an archery club at his Elsternwick
home almost up to the time of his death. t
Richard Allen, one-time Melbourne City *
Councillor, then carried on the sport at
his home in Gladstone-parade, Elstern-
wick. Melbourne architect Kingsley
Henderson knows the Yarraside history
of archery, for Richard Allen was his
uncle. It was on the archery lawn at
Rippon Lea, the Sargood home in
Elsternwick, that Kingsley Henderson’s
father first met his future bride, more
than 60 years ago.
* * * *
“Napog”: The idlers who till in time
by watching workers tinkering with jobs
(B. 3/8/’3B) are easily outdone as public
nuisances by many of the jobs that they
watch in Sydney. It seems that anyone
now can erect scaffolding across the
pavement while his premises are being
built, pulled down or improved, and
bricks, sand, etc., may be thrown across
the pavement while to-and-froers dodge
by as best they can. This is all in spite
of the fact that in the nineties the Sydney
Municipal Council declared it was illegal
“to discharge, sweep, raise or carry dust,
dirt, or rubbish upon or across any street
between the hours of 8 a.m. and 7 p.m.”
That by-law is still supposed to be in
force.
* * * *
“Toto”: It isn’t only newly-arrived
foreigners who experience linguistic
difficulties. Worked for years in a chemi-
cal factory where all sorts of tricks were
tried on newcomers. Have seen a recruit
walking about with a crate looking for
the stock of “blue atmosphere.” Later
he spent an hour in the attic anxiously
searching the sky for low-lying clouds
which he had been told were wanted for
a batch of cloudy ammonia. He was fed
up when the boss sent him for a pint of
“essence of smoke,” and returned with a
smouldering twig in a pint bottle. The
boss was not amused, and the bewildered
youth spent the next few weeks carrying
out the craziest instructions with meticu-
lous care. He decided that, if pyrolig-
neous acid could be essence of smoke,
anything could be anything.
A RECIPE.
One may have builded ballades in loads,
And stately sonnets and lilting odes,
And yet failed to master the subtle trick
Of aptly tailing a Limerick.
There are but syllables eight or nine
To be deftly packed in the Missing Line,
But there’s need of words that will stir and stick
For the crowning grace of a Limerick.
It must bring the triumph and breathe the zest
Of the winning hit in a hard-fought Test
Or the vital goal in a football kick,
The final touch to a Limerick.
A cogent climax will fill the bill.
An anti-climax is better still,
And a play on words, if it’s smooth and slick.
Is all-right stuff for a Limerick.
On the list’ning ear it should linger long,
Like the closing notes of some mellow song;
It should hit the spot like a well-aimed brick,
The perfect end of a Limerick.
Wade in, you fellows who smite the lyre
With fertile fancy and forceful fire!
Somewhere or other arc rhymes that click
With the most refractory Limerick.
Good luck to all in this modern phase
Of the age-old quest for the poet's bays!
Out with thesaurus and rhyming die.,
There’s a guerdon waiting for him who’ll pick
The cutest tail for a Limerick.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


-»4
€*
10 for 9d. 20 for I^6.
E 1865
It's their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA"
&'v '
MADE
PREVENT
SORE
T H R
ATS
POLITICAL POINTS
A circus is touring the NX at the
same time as the McEwen Ministerial
show. The circus is paying its way.
v During the 1935-36 year Australian
exports to Japan were valued at
£14,100,000 sterling, and imports from
Japan at £4,969,000. In the eleventh
month of that year Gullett arrived with
his trade-diversion stunt. For the
twelvemonth to June 30, 1938, exports
to Japan were valued at £4,769,000
and imports from Japan at £5,349,000
so it was poor old Australia that got it
in the gullet.
Five N.S.W. Labor Assemblymen
from the northern coalfields have an-
nounced that they will never desert Lang
unless the members of their unions de-
sert him. Young Watkins, who suc-
ceeded his father as M.H.R. for New-
castle, is much more positive. Watkins
got in for Federal Labor against a Lang
man in 1935, and was re-elected with
Lang support —the old factions having
been reunited—in 1937. Now he says
he has “no intention of going over to the
rebels.”
Practically all the Great War gen-
erals of brigade and division and bat-
talion commanders in Maoriland have
signed a declaration in favor of “the re-
establishment of universal military train-
ing.” Reasons given are that a “force of
, even 9000, the peace-time establishment,
is grossly inadequate if the country is to
discharge its obligations,” that “only
about 3000 attended camp last year,”
and that “of the 3000, not more than
one-third” are old and strong enough for
active service. This is the veterans’ reply
to the “disciplining” of the Four Colonels
and to the blither of a Labor member
that “the Minister should have stripped
them of their peacock feathers.”
On August 1 Forgan Smith made
political history, having been in office,
continuously, longer than any other
Queensland Premier. He was sworn in
on June 17, 1932, and with six years one
month and 15 days he drew ahead of the
previous continuous record —Griffith’s.
Theodore runs third with five years four
months and three days. Griffith still holds
the record for total length of Premier-
ship with seven years two months and 15
days, but it was divided between two
separate periods.
Although actual carriage didn’t begin
till last week, three-halfpenny postage on
Maoriland letters for Britain, borne
across the Tasman by steamer and the
rest of the way by flying-boat, dates from
July 26. Postage on Australian letters,
borne by the same flying-boats, was
then Is. 6d. per half oz.; it is now sd.
Meantime Minister Thorby was reported
as saying that “the people of Australia
should consider themselves very lucky
that they have a Government which has
been able to arrange for the reduction”
—to fivepence, and which still charges
tuppence for the land delivery of a letter
which may not travel a hundred yards.
Lucky!
Earle Page left Britain saying that
Chamberlain was “true to the Chamber-
lian tradition —sound as a bell on Em-
pire trade and the need for building up
the Dominions.” Doesn’t tally with news-
paper impressions, but facts and fountain-
pen fancies are often Poles apart these
times.
A reconciliation has been effected be-
tween Chamberlain and the Old Lady of
Hunter-street, Sydney. When Eden
dropped out Grandma fell on the P.M.
with teeth, claws and gamp. Now she
allows that “the Chamberlain Govern-
ment’s policy of avoiding provocation
while the nation is rearming is associated
with active steps to remove both the im-
mediate and the ultimate causes of war.”
If it has been unduly patient with out-
rage in Spain it has striven for a real
agreement with Italy and is seeking an
honest settlement of the Sudeten-Czech
problem. British strength and goodwill
are still potent forces for peace.
Truly a notable conversion. Have another
drop of gin, old dearl
Whether because the combatants are
growing old or because their Younger
Sets have tamed them, the Lang-Heffron
faction wrangle is being conducted in a
comparatively ladylike fashion. N.S.W.
can recall when the Langs and Loughlins
closed in battle shouting the political
equivalents of “Tear their livers out!”
and “Skin ’em alive-o!” Now there is
nothing even remotely resembling the
ferocity of 13 years ago. Even the
faction newspapers seem to be more
interested in other topics. True, the “new”
“Labor Daily” mentions now and then
"The latest N.S.W. Labor faction fight is being conducted with astonishing urbanity.”
“After you, mossoo !”
that the Fight Is On, but it gives far
more space to film offal and portraits
of half-naked tarts; and during the
week in which Lang announced his in-
tention of Carrying the War into the
Enemy’s Camp—reading a speech or two
at Broken Hill—his “Century’s” poster
read “Joan Crawford Tells All.”
Victoria’s unlucky Government rail-
ways dropped another £239,000 last year
(a surplus of £lOOO had been estimated
by Dunstan), and if £30,000,000 of capi-
tal hadn’t been “written off” in the Aus-
tralian politician’s unique way—interest
remains the loss would have been
£638,000. The infantile paralysis epi-
demic is blamed for most of the deficit.
An ineradicable preference for other
modes of transport isn’t mentioned.
Another deficit—of £lB2,ooo—is pre-
dicted for the Victorian Government rail-
ways, whose “capital indebtedness” has
been “reduced by £30,000,000,” though
interest on the £30,000,000 will have to
be found by the taxpayers ; and the Won-
thaggi coalmine is expected to increase
the loss by £153,000. Wonthaggi went
£152,000 to the bad last year, and hasn’t
shown a credit balance since 1930-31.
Yet Miners’ Fed. Communists threaten
to include the Wonthaggi men among
their strikers.
Reviewing a book on Jules Cambon,
by Madame Two-Blues, the source of so
much foreign “news,” “S. M. Herald”
notes that Madame was Cambon’s “niece
by marriage.”
A genuine piety has restrained that ten-
dency towards sensationalism, if one may
call it such, which sometimes marks her
work as a writer on international affairs.
One may call it such. A genuine chivalry
has restrained one from using harsher ex-
pressions.
At the end of July Sydney “D.T.”
reported that “the Polish Government”
had “sent a note to the Czech Govern-
ment protesting against ‘Czech toleration
'of Communist propaganda against
Poland.’ ”
Simultaneously the Polish press bitterly
attacked the Czechs, declaring that a wide
gulf of antagonism separates the two
nations.
At the end of May the same paper
asserted that Warsaw had Saved Europe
by telling Berlin that Poland as well as
France and Britain would fight for the
Czechs: “Europe Saved by Poland’s
Stand.” This flapper paper can’t have it
both ways. If the July account is cor-
rect—and this is not questioned—the May
version was mendacious moonshine.
To beat up public sympathy for the
coal strike they talk of, the bosses of
the Miners’ Federation held “a memorial
service to victims of recent mining
fatalities,” and the gentleman who con-
ducted it (he is not a clergyman) “said
there were 73 deaths last year.” Pre-
sumably he referred to all mines and
to all Australia, and it is certainly a
tragic total; but the casual Sydney reader
might take it to refer to fatal accidents
in N.S.W. coalmines. Government
statistics are always belated; those given
in the latest N.S.W. official Year-Book
show 69 fatal accidents in N.S.W. coal-
mines in six years. In the same period
94 “other miners” were killed, all in
N.S.W.
The so-called National Travel Asso-
ciation has become as expensive as a Gov-
ernment department; last year’s subsidy
amounted to £20,000. It was an inexcus-
able waste of money, since the taxpayer
maintains seven expensive London
offices, a herd of Trade Commissioners
m foreign parts and six State Tourist
Bureaux in Australia that could, and
should, do everything this show does.
He has to put up with a lot of costly
duplication for which the Federal sys-
tem is made the pretext, but this other
sort of duplication is too glaring.
Sydney’s insufferable “County Council,”
which began by appointing Personality
Girls to “demonstrate” flatirons, is now
attacking soldier-preference. Gardiner,
the chairman, blithering to the “Daily
Telegraph”:
I am grateful to the men who fought
for me when I was six, and I hope that
they will be grateful to me in a few years’
time when I fight for them.
Diggers might feel safer if they were
fought for by Personality Girls.
A Sydney “Herald” leaderwriter on the
fighting south-west of Vladivostok:
Local Japanese forces resisted Russian
preparations to fortify the hill of Changku-
feng.. . .launched a strong offensive and
captured the hill, with neighboring high
ground. Repeated Russian attempts to re-
cover these positions... .the Japanese claim
to have repulsed, with heavy Russian losses,
including the destruction of many tanks —
a weapon proved highly vulnerable to anti-
tank guns in Spain. Two main facts
emerge—the serious fighting was started
by the Japanese, and they have had the
better of it.
On the same page Granny printed a
budget from the effusive Edgar Ansel
Mowrer conveying the impression that the
Japanese (“total 1,500,000”) had so ex-
hausted themselves by their efforts against
the wonderful “Eighth (formerly Com-
munist) Route Army” and other “masters
of mobile warfare over a shifting front”
that they couldn’t beat an egg.
Somehow, when the Commonwealth
sends trade commissioners to foreign
countries trade with those countries starts
to slump, and the same fatality seemingly
attends trade agreements. In 1936-37
Australia had favorable balances with
japan (£5,349,000) and Czechoslovakia
(£505,500); last year the favorable bal-
ance with Czechoslovakia was reduced
to £53,000, and value of imports from
Japan exceeded value of exports by
£580,000. Also, the adverse balance with
Canada increased from £4,264,000 to
£6,354,000, and with the Dutch East
Indies from £4,781,200 to £6,340,000.
There are trade agreements with Japan,
Canada and Czechoslovakia and trade
commissioners (with staffs) in Japan,
Canada and the Dutch East Indies.
“Nine scientifically-trained officers will
be appointed to the staff of the Agri-
culture Department.” So Vic. Premier
Dunstan said in his Budget speech last
year, and he as good as said it again
last week. Actually eight men were put
on in the twelvemonth.; the ninth would
have been working had Werribee’s dairy
technology school been completed. By
a 1937-38 reclassification of 14 key men,
the drift of brains into private employ-
ment was checked. Addition of eight
officers and the dairy technologist should
bring the department near to its neces-
sary strength.
According to a Red paper, the “mar-
tyred” Kisch was elected in the Commu-
nist interest during the Czechoslovakian
municipal elections which led to so much
war talk. In Australia Kisch denied that
he was a Communist until the cheers of
Sydney Domain comrades betrayed him
into giving the Red-Front salute. At
Fremantle, outward-bound, he clenched
his fist again and shook it at the crew of
a German freighter then in Fremantle
harbor —a safe gesture, there being about
100 yards of water between.
A Melbourne “Age” correspondent
has discovered a paragraph printed in
that journal in 1874 which recounts how
a State Minister of Lands, asked for the
reservation of a rifle range, replied that
he didn’t think it worth while because
“new discoveries may render the rifle
useless from a military point of view.”
What a Commonwealth Minister of De-
fence was lost there!


NOT ACCORDING TO PLAN.
Italian brides, married by proxy, are arriving in Australia at the rate of 100 a year, but they don’t always elect to live with the husbands they see for the first time.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued . . . . 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
112 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WILL SHARE AND COMMODITY PRICES HOLD?
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING
SURVEY OF METAL MARKETS
MINING DEVELOPMENTS ALL FIELDS
August Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.j Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
HAND
PLAITED
KANGAROO
SKIN BELT
w Hit new
vinjifastener^
PRICE- ij^(
MUBRORHISua
. in, Queen St. Brisbane
PESONNAL ITEMS
Melbourne has lost the Last of the
Duggans who entertained it and the rest
of Australia for so many years. Eugenie
Duggan (Mrs. William Anderson),
heroine in a multitude of melodramas,
died a year or two ago ; now brother
Edmund has followed her. He was 72.
As an actor Edmund figured in the
original “On Our Selection” cast with
Bert Bailey, and he was no mean play-
wright. In earlier and less lucky years
he was a flickering star in Bill Ander-
son’s No. 2 company. One of his actor-rs
asked him for the loan of a pound. “A
pound?” Edmund repeated. “Laddie,
if 1 had a pound I’d start a No. 3 com-
pany!”
Charles Chase Ray Nobbs, who died
at Norfolk Island the other day in his
78th year, was a grandson of George
Hunn Nobbs, who arrived at Pitcairn
in 1829, and who became virtually ruler
of the island when the patriarch Adams
died. George Hunn Nobbs was of Irish
extraction, and entered the Navy and
made a voyage to Van Diemen’s Land
at 14. He served under Lord Cochrane
in Chile’s War of Independence, and won
a commission in the Chilean Navy. Later
he escaped from a Mediterranean wreck
in an open boat, and was one of four to
survive an expedition to Sierra Leone,
and narrowly evaded death from fever.
His grandson, who died the other day,
was educated at the King’s School, and
after some commercial experience in Syd-
ney took up land at Norfolk Island,
where, until recently, he was President
of the Executive Council.
The Queensland Bar admitted its first
local university law graduate the other
day—Lex Dunn, who took his L.L.B. in
1936.
Otway Falkiner is one of the most
picturesque of Australian sheepmen. His
wide hat, his sturdy frame, the youthful
vigor and the zest for life which never
deserts him make him a personality who
brightens up any company. He shares
with other members of the Falkiner
family partnerships one of the soundest
capacities for fine-sheep breeding in Aus-
tralia. No need to tell any sheepbreeder
the world over that his address is
Boonoke North. To ram buyers Boonoke
OTWAY FALKINER.
and Wanganella are names as well known
as Paris to a Kansas City tourist. In
his spare time O.F. gives a good deal of
attention to Randwick ; he is also often
to be met with a gun in his hand.
John Henry Macartney Abbott,
modelled with plasticene and without
mercy by Frith, broke into The Bulletin
in 1897 jvith a poem, “Lord, Think of the
Lambs,” and has been a consistent
Bulletin scribe ever since. Son of
knight Joseph Abbott, sometime Speaker
of the N. S. Wales Parliament, and a
brother of Senator Macartney Abbott,
Jack was born in Maitland, N. S.
Wales, 63 years ago, and educated at
JACK ABBOTT.
King’s School, Parramatta. Served in
the S. African war with the Ist Australian
Horse, emerging with six clasps to his
medal. He has studied so deeply the
history of the early days of the oldest
State that Lachlan Macquarie is a far
realler figure to him than is Premier
Stevens. Jack has, of course, published
a whole raft of books.
As in the case of padre Parkinson,
who resigned six months ago, King’s
School, Parramatta, N.S.W., has gone to
England for its new head. Parkinson,
born in M.L., was an Englishman by 22
years’ residence only, but H. D. Hake,
the new man, who will arrive early next
year, was born in the Old Dart, son of
a schoolmaster at Bournemouth, in whose
academy he had his early education.
After war service in India and Mespot.
Hake graduated at Cambridge, where he
took blues in hockey and racquets and
played cricket with distinction. He’s now
a housemaster at Haileybury, but he has
had some “colonial experience” in S.
Africa, and brought a covey of English
schoolboys to Australia in 1936. He will
be the first headmaster of King’s who
wasn’t a clergyman.
S. H. Drew, passed on in Brisbane,
where he managed the Patrick Line, was
a Devonshire man who served his early
years as navigating lieutenant on a
North Atlantic cable ship. Australia
first saw him before the war as mate
and master of Currie liners, in which
Capt. Patrick also served. During the
war Drew commanded a supply ship,
and later joined the North Coast S.N. Co.
He started with the Patrick Line in 1923.
One of the best-known members of
the Tasmanian Bar, Tasman Shields, has
taken silk. The new K.C., who is 61 and
was born in Launceston, was admitted
in 1894. He is now head of the
legal firm of Shields, Heritage, Stack-
house and Martin. He represented his
home town, Launceston, in the Tas. Leg.
Council for 21 years, retiring in 1936,
and in collaboration with Premier
Ogilvie, then Attorney-General, he pre-
pared the famous “Case for Tasmania”
for presentation to the Federal authority.
He is president of the Northern Law
Society and the Northern Tas. Football
Assn., a vice-president of the Society for
the Care of Crippled Children and a
member of the committee of the Tas.
R.A.C. Also a trout-fishing addict.
Lionel Venn Brown, of Sydney, dead
at 51, was one of the brightest products
of Sydney Technical College, where he
secured an associateship in mining and
metallurgy in 1907. His achievement in
developing and applying a process for
the recovery of scheelite from its associ-
ated garnet rock in the King Island
deposit is classic in annals of Australian
mining. In spite of having to start from
the grass roots and contend with
the rigors of a Bass Strait winter,
he had King Island Scheelite on the
dividend list seven months after land-
ing on the island. Later, in associa-
tion with Dr. Elliott, he developed
the manufacture of bismuth carbon-
ate, and was at the time of his death
general manager of Bismuth Pro-
ducts, Ltd., and consulting engineer
at the chemical works of Elliotts and
Australian Drug, Ltd.
The Bulletin will miss Capt.
Selwyn Mitchell Day, gone west at
Turramurra, Sydney. He was a fre-
quent visitor to 252 George-street on
matters dear to his heart —the de-
fence of Australian shores and the
training of Australian boys for sea
careers. Born in England 65 years
ago, he first visited these parts in
the sailing ship Macquarie, which
afterwards became the coal hulk
Fortuna in Sydney Harbor. His next
visit was in 1932, when he was sec-
retary of the Sea Lion training ship,
London. He had a distinguished
war career, and was awarded the D.S.O.
in 1917 and the C.B. in 1922. Settling
in' Sydney about five years ago, he be-
came known as a prolific writer and
speaker on nautical subjects. He pub-
lished two books, Australia’s Imminent
Peril and Sea Training of Merchant Sea-
men.
John Devoy, chairman and managing
director of Castlemaine Perkins, the
Brisbane brewery firm, is, as Gall’s
sketch helps to indicate, one of the few
captains of the XXXX industry who
JOHN DEVOY.
really look the part. He started his
career as a lad with Quinlan, Donnelly
and Co., became secretary of Castle-
maine Perkins, and later was for a while
g.m. Nowadays he has as aides J. F.
Lonergan as g.m. and Col. F. A. Hughes
as secretary, both of whom have been
41 years with the firm.
With plenty to interest him J. J. Liston,
of Melbourne, grins happily. As director
of the Liquor Trades Defence Union he’s
running the “vote wet” campaign in pre-
J. J. LISTON.
paration for the Vic. No-License poll on
October 8 ; as president of the Vic. Foot-
ball Assn., he’s watched the throw-pass
innovation give his organisation’s games
a new lease of life. J.J. has nursed liquor
interests in all of Vic.’s five past noils
since 1904, and has been L.T.D.U. direc-
tor since 1916. He’s been V.F.A. presi-
dent for 14 years, but isn’t narrow-
minded about it, as he’s also president
of the Soccer Assn. Racing men know
him as Williamstown R.C. president, as
owner of an Oaks winner, Lineage, and
as breeder of other horses. Liston was
born at Williamstown, was a local coun-
cillor for 30 years and mayor seven
times ; he missed being Lord Mayor of
Melbourne by an informal vote in 1931,
and was a Melbourne City Councillor for
10 years. In spite of many demands upon
his time, he’s managed to build up one
of the best private libraries in Victoria.
No one on the staff in Bulletin
memory possessed a more pleasantly
obliging manner than “Dix” —Ernest
George Dixon. Son of an old East
Maitland (N.S.W.) family, he was with
the Railways for a start. Later he got a
job in The Bulletin’s advertising branch,
and for many years, up to his death last
week at 49, he was advertising manager.
Good Australians in every sense, the
Croydon family of which Dixon was the
head are well known in N.S.W. Scout
circles. One of Dixon’s seven sons was
lost for a time with a party in the Blue
Mountains a few years back, and “Dix”
was an anxious searcher until all was
found to be well. There was a big attend-
ance of young people at his funeral.
Hobart-born, Oliver Morrice Williams,
whose career closed at the 80th milestone
at Toorak, Melbourne, last week, started
with the Bank of Australasia, in Mel-
bourne, on leaving school, transferred
much later in life to the Chartered Bank
of London, as inspector, and eventually
became general manager of that bank, re-
tiring in 1916 to devote his whole time to
work on behalf of Australian soldiers. He
became hon. treas. of the Vic. Red Cross,
and was first deputy chairman and execu-
tive chairman of the Repatriation Trust.
Later he become president of the Aus-
tralian Red Cross and was a vice-chair-
man of the Lord Mayor’s Fund. He was
also prominent in cricket, football and
tennis administration and a staunch
member of the Anglican Diocesan
Council.


M| nMM wm 11 ■ mu |
i—IMP
STI
i I
■ -
V;
•'■•■■■ HR
I:
\ - /
JP*
T!n
>.
\
■:
’
a
piy
BU
<r!F
Sk
m
/.^•o
Jh
&pp
I I
-
V
m
m
■
r£
■i
*
am
A
ii
■
v ;
To the Young Winner
—and the White Horse
Here is the full answer to exertion for the girl who loves
living —smooth, soft White Horse.
Here, too, is the first choice of the young man —the
mellow flavour, the peaty aroma of White Horse.
And as for the older man, he says —“Down the years I’ve
found no whisky which can compare —
I can tell it blindfold. ”
WHITE HORSE V
WHISKY ~
Screw-cap Flasks of convenient sizes on sale everywhere.


ABORIGINALITIES
"Pittosporum”: Old man O’Brien
grows and hawks potatoes. He sold some
lo Miss Smith, and a fortnight later
called for the return of the empty bags.
To his disgust he found them being used
as coverings on the kitchen floor.
“Cripes!” he told us later, “there she
was with a man’s good spud-bags under
her feet as if she was a blanky queen!”
* * * *.
“Wang”: “Talkin’ of royalty,” re-
marked Dan, laying aside his paper, “one
“Who will you have to take you away, take you away, take you away?"
time when I was on the wallaby I struck
a long-whiskered, wild-eyed ole bloke
camped under an ole wooden bridge
over a creek. I ses ‘G’day,’ p’lite-like.
The ole coot glared at me. ‘ls that the
way to come inter the presents?’ he ses.
.'What presents?’ I ses. ‘Mine,’ he ses;
I’m Alexander the Great!’ I sees the
ole coot was a hatter, so I humors him,
an’ we soon got on quite sociable. Pres-
ently a heavy vehicle comes on to the
bridge. Next thing we know half the
deckin’ comes tumblin’ down on top
of us, an’ a coupla dray-wheels shows
through a gap in the bridge floor above
us. Then a pig the size of a young
elephant lumbers down an’ falls inter
the fire. He gives a squeal, then picks
hisself up, an’ goes limpin’ off inter
the undergrowth. Two minutes later a
scared-lookin’ young chap comes slidin’
down" round the edge of the bridge. ‘The
King,’ he ses, agitated-like—‘is he hurt?’
addressin’ me. The ole coot steps for-
ward an’ bows. T thank yer fer yer
inquiry,’ he ses, ‘but I am quite unin-
jured.’ The young bloke glares at him,
savage. ‘Go an’ drown yerself,’ he
barks ; ‘it’s me pig I’m askin’ about, the
champeen Berkshire boar of the district —
King Canute of Billibilli!’ ”
* * * *
“Williami”: As every game-hunter
knows, a rabbit’s leg is always broken
when the trap-jaws (Snap on bunny's
peds. If a rabbit with three whole legs,
and sometimes only two, can climb up
and over a straight wall, what is there re-
markable in his ascending a tree? Rab-
bits can climb like cats, but they inhibit
this ability until the need to exercise it
arises. Knew a gang of trappers in the
Galong (N.S.W.) district who locked up
a couple of hundred underground jurn-
bucks in an old skeleton house for a
big kill on market day. The walls were
of stone, 12ft. high. The roof was miss-
ing. So were the rabbits when the trap-
pers arrived with their morning catch to
prepare the carcasses for the freezing-
works. That is, they had all gone bar
the last six, which were going over the
top in the wake of the 194 others.
* * * *
“Komediak”: Recent mention of
sheep tallies reminds me of a wanderer
who dropped in at an East Gippsland
cocky’s in search of work. “No, I ain’t
never had no practical experience in
countin’ sheep,” he replied, in answer to
the boss’s queries. “But I’ve ’ad insom-
nia for years and know all about it in
theory.”
n: * :$e
“Watt Nextt”: The Forest Commis-
sion of Victoria has labelled the faithful
old stringybark with the mushy, sodden
name of messmate. Stringy is good for
a hundred serviceable purposes—bridge-
building, wharf-piles, fencing. But mess-
mate —well, the first half of his name
describes him. There isn’t a foot of
sound wood in a whole tree, and it is
so waterlogged, even when recently dead,
that it will not burn. “Messmate” in
Victoria is used for veneers in high-class
furniture factories. The commission dis-
plays brilliantly-polished examples in
panels and tables and chairs and cabinets
—all stringybark, of course. A furniture-
maker persuaded a lady to part with a
log for £5O. He sliced half of it into
veneers and made £lOOO profit. The
other half will net him another £lOOO.
My last hope of the commission revert-
ing to the proper name was crushed when
I discovered that all myrtle trees in Vic-
toria bore the official misnomer of beech.
* ❖ # 0
“Splodger”: “Tom Willie’s” stone-
bruise (B. 20/7/’3B) as an agony-jerker
isn’t a shade on the jarred bone, which
is the only thing that has ever made me
watch the clock all night. It starts with
a semi-opaque kernel forming at the seat
of the trouble. Like a pin-point of fire
and irritating to the point of being ex-
cruciating, it gradually rises nearer the
surface. As it does the ball of flame
spreads; the arm begins to swell, rising
to hideous dimensions, and the throbbing
agony of the thing takes full possession.
The worst of it is that there’s no relief.
It has to ripen in its own time. That
might take three to four days. And,
oh! the blessed relief of the probe when
it’s time for the knife.
“Tussock”: Did “Salmon Gums” (B.
22/6/’3B) see that mare and all her sub-
sequent foals which showed traces of the
donkey, or did he hear about it from a
bloke who worked for a cocky whose
uncle knew a fellow who heard about it
from a drover who came from Queens-
land? Like the mark on the trunk or
the fence attached to the tree climbing
up with the tree, it simply doesn’t happen.
Sir Everett Millais, over 30 years spent
in making thousands of experiments with
all sorts of animals, found not one case
of telegony. In Brazil, where mules
were bred in hundreds of thousands, it
was the custom, after two or three cross-
ings of mare and ass, to put the mare to
a horse, yet a pure-bred foal resembling
ass or mule has never been produced. I
have met scores of breeders who firmly
believe in the theory of “saturation,” but
I have never known one who could say
that he had seen an actual case.
* * * *
“Wandi”: Restricted to far-northern
jungles, and of rather handsome appear-
ance, the kajalga, or Queensland poison-
tree (.Erythrophlorum laboucheri ) is
claimed to be the most poisonous tree
in Australia, if not in the world. It has
a very hard and nicely-grained wood, but
every part of it—leaves, flowers, beans,
sap, bark and wood —is deadly to stock.
A Qld. drover came upon a patch of
young plants, and 4000 of his mob of
10,000 sheep died quickly after eating
the leaves. The blacks declare that even
the smoke from the burning wood is
dangerous. For that reason they never
use the wood, no matter how dry, on
their fires.
s£ :!«
“Golden Mile”: Dotting the gibber
plains of the Centre are the hills left
after erosion, flat-topped mounds 50ft.
to 100 ft. in height, composed of sand-
stone capped with quartzite. These hills
represent what was at one time the
general level of the country. But the
erosion that has stripped the land down
to the gibber plain is only secondary, or
even tertiary, in the levelling-off process.
The sandstone of the residual hills was
in the first place stripped from the higher
mountains. The Centre even contains
mountains of sandstone, notably the
Krichauff Ranges, south of the MacDon-
nells. The study of crystals gives a
better key. The comparative size of a
crystal depends largely upon its rate
of cooling—the crystal from the heart
of a mountain, itself built by the up-
thrust of molten or semi-molten rock,
will be larger than the crystal from the
summit. Thus, when the ridge which
forms the Golden Mile (W.A.) was first
discovered, it stood at its highest not
more than 100 ft. above the surrounding
plain, yet crystals taken from the sur-
face rocks disclose by their size that they
probably were formed in the heart of a
mountain quite 15,000 ft. in height. The
oldest land surface on the globe, the
western half of our continent has seen
its mountains dwindle from the snow-
line down to mere hillocks.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Of the drab birds, five of
them generally, that accompany the re-
splendent blue wren, one is his wife and
the others his sons and daughters. Wren
pere carts them all along, and thereby
gets himself classed a polygamist (B.
27/7/’3B). Like the males of the flame-
and the scarlet-breasted robin clans, the
lads of the blue wren persuasion don’t
acquire colored plumage until their
second season. Pop wren is a decent
little bloke for all his gay perkiness.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: A word for the maligned
“dead-finish” tree of the outback (B.
27/7/’3B). This grows in seemingly im-
penetrable clumps in W.Q., where writer
knew it, but horses and cattle soon drive
dark alleyways through it, where in sum-
mer they find grateful shelter from heat
and, above all, from flies. Also, it is
a fine protection from winter winds. The
wine-red wood makes beautiful stock-
whip handles. In my youthful days on
the Barcoo an old stockman friend who
had been a lag and learned to carve
and inlay with bone or mussel-shell in
exquisite fashion in the various jugs
which had sheltered him made me more
than one of these handles, and always
from “dead-finish.”
* * * *
“Bill Bowyang”: The drunk who was
in an N.Q. town from an outback farm
carried with him a covered treacle-tin,
the sort that swagmen use for billycans.
After many drinks at the first pub on
the way to the township, he, invited
near-by residents out on the grass to
“have a piece of him.” “If they beat me
they can’t beat me mate in this ’ere tin,”
he repeated every few minutes. When
nobody seemed eager to accept his chal-
lenge he tried hard to remove the lid
from the tin, but it had been pressed
down tooi tightly. “I’ll show you what
me mate can do,” he said. Failing to
remove the lid, he staggered to the next
pub, a mile away, still looking for
trouble, and here a hefty constable col-
lected him. “I ain’t goin’ without me
mate,” yelled the beery cove. At the
watch-house the tin was taken from him,
but not before he fought hard to pre-
vent its leaving his possession. The police
removed the lid, and found within a
very annoyed and half-suffocated death-
adder which tried hard to stick its fangs
into the hand of the constable nearest
it. The reptile was destroyed, and the
“drunk” put in a couple of days reducing
the size of the watch-house keeper's
wood heap.
“Western”: “Bull-ant Bill” gives ex-
cellent instruction on the setting of a
gun-trap (B. 13/7/’3B), but omits one
vital point: when departing from the set
gun always walk away to the rear ; never
try to step over the trip line. A year or
two ago a W.A. dogger did it, and caught
just the tip of his boot on the line. The
gun went off, the shower of shot shat-
tering one of his legs so badly that before
starting on the miles-long crawl to assis-
tance he, in desperation, completed the
amputation with his skinning-knife. Then,
with the stump bandaged with portions
of his shirt he completed the crawl. But
it was still 50 miles from a doctor, and
long before blood transfusion could be
attempted the hardy spirit had departed.
* * * *
“Billy Bong”: That prad that toils in
Melbourne’s Fitzroy Gardens (B.
20/7/’3B) must be an outsize one if it
took eight hours to shoe him. During
more than 40 years of shoeing horses
1 have not had one —not even a yearling
for the Show, and that’s no easy job—
that took anywhere near that time. The
largest-footed horse I shod took Bft. of
iron to make a set; that was with rooled
heels and toe-bars. I also shod a geld-
ing dray-horse in Tasmania that turned
the scales at one ton.
* * *
“Plasterer”: Staring unwinking at the
sun has nothing on making egg-boxes.
Conversation at one smoke-oh while we
were building a school south of Adelaide
centred in what we did in the Depresh. 1
once tackled making egg-boxes for two-
pence a box and managed to whack up
10 bob a day. Twenty branded slats of
white Swedish spruce and 75 nails went
into each box. When I picked up the
paper at night I could see nothing but
“24 dozen eggs” in front of me wherever
I looked. My cobber and I gave it up
at the same time. We were beginning
to acquire the hen-fruit’s vacant looks.
* * * *
“Ayeff”: Hungry sheep will come at
almost anything, but some of them, at
least, are particular about what they
drink. On the W.A. wheatbelt during a
dry year I was watering a mob from a
very brackish well. Most of them drank
after a bit of fuss, but one old ewe re-
fused, and eventually died, after four
weeks without a drop of water.
¥ * *
“Sami”: Bill, wanting to go from
Marton to Wanganui (M.L.), lacked the
necessary, but on the station he picked up
an old ticket. Getting on the train, he
rambled through two or three carriages,
collecting en route a hat whose owner
was temporarily absent. Finally settling
down in a carriage with a number of
other people, he started to hold forth
about safe ways of carrying one’s ticket,
and put his old one in the band of the
pinched hat. As he put it on he leaned
out of the window, remarking to all and
sundry that his cobber had a farm there-
abouts. As he drew his head in again
the wind whisked the cady away. When
the guard came through a number of pas-
sengers were able to testify that Bill had
accidentally lost his ticket and hat.
ALMOND-BLOSSOM IN ADELAIDE.
Was there a shower of snow last night,
Lying light along the bough—
A faery frost that powdered white
The morn’s immaculate brow?
Whatever white dew fell last night
There’s only blossom now.
Whatever angel walked that cool
World lit by far star flashes,
Scattering the brittle frost like wool,
The hoar frost like pale ashes,
There’s nothing now but beautiful
Boughs gemmed with rosy splashes.
So like a laggard snowfall, blent
With silver shreds and sherds,
The almonds build a blossomy tent
Of creamy sprays and curds,
And write Perfection’s testament
In white and lovely words.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


“Ellenvale”: When I went across to
help him load a fat sow for market,
Long Bill explained that he never seemed
to find time to build a proper race, but
he had fixed up a makeshift that would
do. Three planks resting on the back
of the cart slanted down to the pig-pen.
One side was flanked by a kind of wire-
and-timber entanglement; the other was
protected by a heavy gate, which I had
to hold up and at the same time help
to shoo the pig into the cart. Bill held
the horse while Bill, Jnr., hunted the
backfatter out of the sty. It was half-
way up the race when Bluey, the cattle-
dog, overcome with excitement, nipped
a piece out of Bill’s leg. Bill yelled,
jumped into the air, and came down
mixed up with the reins; the horse
hauled forward, the planks and gate fell
on me, while the pig left for other parts,
hastened by the enthusiastic Bluey. We
managed to yard the sow again after an
hour’s cursing and hard running. An-
other eternity was spent trying to per-
suade that prime porker to enter the
race, with no other result than grunts
from all present. We resented Mrs.
Bill’s cheerful appearance on the scene.
Amiably she waved her apron once, said
“Up you go, piggy,” and the beast walked
quietly up the planks into the cart. “Isn’t
she a lovely piggy?” Mrs. Bill remarked
brightly. Bill didn’t say anything, but
did the only thing possible in the circum-
stances. He gave Bluey another hiding.
* * * *
“Buck”: Our outback Queensland
station was cursed with a plague of fleas.
Though the days were hot, blankets were
necessary at night, and these literally
swarmed with the pests. After one neces-
sarily restless night Choom was moodily
contemplating the activity of an ant
colony; for some reason he deduced
they were ravenous and, thinking they
mightn’t be averse to a diet of the leapers,
he tossed his blanket across the antbed.
“If that edden out o' plumb , Mai Other, 's' time for me to see a eye doctor."
Those frenzied toilers went through the
blanket with the speed and efficiency of
a vacuum-cleaner. Choom’s stocks have
now risen sharply.
* * * *
Sa Tiko : I shall hide my hurt from
Onam (B. 27/7/’3B), but between our-
selves I am deeply wounded. What I
wanted to know was where the taro could
be bought on this rim of the Pacific.
The likes and dislikes of any person with
a foreign palate doesn’t interest me. I
stated my own fancy for the taro, and
explained that it was a complete diet for
Fijian natives. Naturally, I didn’t expect
anyone to plumb its interior for a ready-
made fruit-salad. All I claim is that it
contains the qualities of bread, meat and
fruit. Is there any other vegetable that
can be eaten three times a day, year in
and year out, without producing mal-
“Miss Crosspatch arid I feel that We are responsible for each and every one of you."
nutrition and scurvy? I have lived among
the Fijians and have eaten their taro with
the greatest relish. Of course, you don’t
eat it raw like you would a horse-radish
or an oyster. You must boil it or bake
it. And if there is anything more de-
licious than boiled taro sliced and fried
in butter, I would travel to the ends of
the earth to sample it, even if it meant
encountering “Onam” laboriously getting
knowledge first-saloon on a luxury liner.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: In pre-war years scien-
tists, pseudo and otherwise, used to exer-
cise their imaginations in proposing
methods whereby the tremendous wasted
energy of the tides could be harnessed
to human service. To-day Yampi Sound,
nor’-west W.A., offers the opportunity
par excellence. There the tide, year in
and year out, has a mean rise and fall
of 30ft. twice in every 24 hours. Washed
by this tide are the feet of ironstone
hills, possibly the richest in the world,
which by electrical energy could be trans-
formed into steel. It merely remains for
some genius to transform this immeasur-
able tidal energy, or even a fraction of
it, into electricity.
“Bogaduck”: “I see,” said Old Dan,
“where these C.S. and I.R. blokes is
wonderin’ why they didn’t have better
luck with that rabbit-virus disease on
Wardang Island. ’Strewth! They know
''nothin’ about ’em. First they puts strange
rabbits into the colony. Any kid who’s
kept pet bunnies could’ve told ’em that
it don’t work. When dogs is after it, a
rabbit will dive down any burrow, but
otherwise it don’t dare go into any but
its own warren ; it gets chucked out if
it tries. If you want to study how rab-
bits move about, pick a bit of country
where there’s colored rabbits —blacks or
sandies —in some of the warrens. You’ll
find rabbits don’t go outside their own
bit of country as long as there’s a bite
of feed on it, and be all accounts there
was whips of feed on Wardang. But it’s
different when tucker’s short; then they
all mix up. That’d be the time to let the
disease rip among ’em; when there’s
plenty of feed just catch one from every
warren and give him a dose. You ought
to write to them scientific jokers and
tell ’em to employ an old bloke who’s
trapped bunnies all his life.”
**. * *
“Sou’-west”: It all depends on what is
called “badly-infested termite country”!
“Naturalist’s” bloodwood and stringy-
bark (B. 13/7/’3B) wouldn’t last 50
years in termite-ridden country such as
parts of the N.T. That’s the place for
the wood-devourers. And one needn’t
wander far from the track between
Barrow Creek and Darwin to see plenty
of their castles. The western portion of
the central plateau, which extends as far
as Southern Cross, isn’t too bad, either.
I’ve seen the termites doing a lot of
reconditioning around Kalgoorlie, for
instance. Thousands of salmon-gum
stumps, left when the country was cut
over to provide firewood for the mines,
were eaten right out within a few years.
All over the W.A. goldfields the
timbers of an abandoned mine soon
go. I’ve seen sets of poppet-legs
completely ruined after only a short
spell of neglect. In the same
locality I’ve found termites in the
large mushrooms that spring up
after a good rain. They do the
same in the Territory. Actually,
the termite is the Territory’s great-
est obstacle in the way of agricul-
tural development. They even eat
the carrots and the cabbages!
“Crotalus”: Cut the vipers out when
commenting on non-social snakes (B.
27/7/’3B). These creatures have a curi-
ous habit of congregating in large num-
bers, but whether for hibernation or for
mating purposes has never definitely been
settled. The European varieties, includ-
ing the British adder, share the habit
with the American rattlesnakes and their
relations. If any reader recalls that
strange novel Elsie Venner by the
American Holmes, he will remember the
bloodcurdling description of the rattle-
snake assembly.
* * * •
“Beck”: Let me assure “First Blue”
that the maggot advertised by British
fishing magazines originates in the same
way as the gentleman who devours our
sheep alive, and is not spontaneously
engendered from meal (B. 13/7/’3B). I
know because I have manufactured them
by shooting a currant-stealing blackbird
in an English kitchen garden and hanging
him up with a tin half-full of oatmeal
underneath. The meal removes the slime
and smell. As a bait for chub and other
wary coarse fish, the gentle is in the first
class, and I blush to say that I have
found trout disdainful of fly, minnow, or
worm, highly appreciative of him.
“Antonio”: Frogs are not the only
aquatic creatures guilty of cannibalism
when confined (B. 6/7/’38): the crayfish
will also eat his fellows, though only
in special circumstances. When taken
from the sea the cray is usually unfit for
market, being full of partly-digested food.
To produce the delectable whiteness so
esteemed by epicures the crustacean is re-
immersed for a week or more in a crate
with salt water as its only sustenance.
During this starve the crays, of which
there may be hundreds, don’t molest one
another, and will indeed starve to the
bitter end, as sometimes happens when
an odd one constantly evades the net
that dips each week’s market quota out.
But let a piece of meat be placed in the
crate, and right away the starve is off.
With food, hunger awakens, and in
course of time, if left to it, there will be
only one cray in the crate.
* *■ * *
“Bogaduck”: The winner of insect
battles is often the one which would
appear to have no chance at all. The
scorpion, with his formidable pincers
and long tail-sting, looks the terror of the
insect world, yet he’s at the mercy of
things a quarter his size. The bulldog
ant will settle him in two ups; even
the centipede, seemingly immune from
the scorpion’s poison, finds little trouble
in dispatching his fierce opponent. At
first sight the big sugar-ant may appear
as yellow as his color scheme, but when
cornered he’ll fight his way out and show
himself to be the deadliest scrapper in
the ant world. The jaws of most species
of ants are made to grip, but those of
the soldier sugar-ant cut like scissors,
and he can trim all the legs off another
ant in a second.
* * * *
“Wang”: “Narrerest escape I ever ’ad,”
said Dan, “was when I was trampin’
lookin’ fer work one time in Gippsland.
A humdinger of a storm comes up as
I’m making towards a farmhouse, so
I ’ops inside a tree with a hole on the
lee side of it, draggin’ me swag with
me. Next thing a extra-’eavy gust hit
the tree, art’ over she went, with the gash
I’d entered by lyin’ flat on the ground,
shuttin’ me in. I tried burrowin’ out,
but the ground’s as hard as goats’ knees.
I was in a mess, proper. Bein’ a stranger
there nobody would know I was missin’.
Four days later the cocky the paddick
belonged to came along with his son to
clear away the fallen tree. Be this time
I hadn’t the strength t’ raise even the
faintest cry. They gits to work with a
crosscut saw on the butt, an’ I lay there
on me stummick lis’enin’ to the saw
gradually tearin’ its way down towards
me. I’d ’a’ been a goner, too, on’y for
the bottle I carried in me hip-pocket.
It was the musical sound made be the
saw as it cut across it that made ’em
roll the tree over.”
THE BUSH SCHOOLTEACHER.
The school wasn’t one of the G.P.S.,
And we hadn’t an old school tie;
Of Latin and such we thought much less
Than the chance of a smoke on the sly.
The building itself was a wooden shed
Some eighteen by twelve inside,
So it wasn’t a post that a present-day ped.
Would view with old Jonathan’s pride.
Old “Jono” was head, and his class, 6A,
Was also 18, truth to tell,
While he did what he could on the girls’ sewing
day,
Taught cricket and singing as well.
He was “scotty” and strict, and his arm was
strong,
And his tongue wasn’t smooth or polite,
But he used his block when a kid did wrong
If he thought that the boy meant right.
Old “Jono” has long put down his pen,
But, just as he said it would,
A new brick school with a staff of ten
Stands where the old one stood.
No tablet built in the front facade
Tells what the old bloke did,
But something warmer than stone is laid
In the heart of at least one kid.
N.S.W.
B.A. KER,


Are Yon a
BUSINESS
or
PROFESSIONAL MAN?
If so, your days are possibly so fully occupied
that you find it difficult to devote the
necessary time to your personal affairs. The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited is in its 61 st year of experience as
Attorney or Agent and is well qualified to
relieve you of worry in arranging invest-
ments. It will be glad to suggest how it can
be of assistance, if you will call or write at
your convenience.
TOE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
C. AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated In Victoria, June 14, 1878)
(Registered in New South Wales, 1907)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA, NOW IN
ITS YEAR OF SERVICE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Proflls,
£955,806.
101 & 103 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. 1-5 BLIOH ST.. SYDNEY.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
Maj.-Cen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0.,
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
W. D. Stewart.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
R. T. Ililder.
ft.S.Vi. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Doable Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends. Written
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. Reserves.
1928.. 355,019 15 p.e. =185,937 30,000 1,690,486
Premiums on new shares, £250,212.. 1,940,698
1929.. 391,624 15 p.e. =223,438 30,000 1,994,190
Premiums on new shares, £237,149.. 2,231,339
1930.. 389,841 15 p.e. =260,937 20,000 2,255,549
Premiums on new shares, £76,600.. 2,332,149
1931.. 308,450 11J p.c.=220,569 20,000 2,315,336
1932.. 199,670 5 p.e. =lOO,OOO 10,000 2,320,312
1933.. 213,634 5 ~,,100,000 20,000 2,329,252
1934.. 209,154 5 ~,,100,000 20,000 2,333,712
1935.. 228,458 5.8„ „ 116,667 20,000 2,340,809
193 t!.. 234,481 5.8„ „ 116,667 25,000 2,348,929
1937.. 247,435 6.6,, „ 133,333 25,000 2,353,337
1938.. 262,384 7.1,. „ 141,667 30,000 2,359,360
Prefs. have had 4 p.e. (£84,694) each year.
The business, which is well spread
throughout the Commonwealth and
Maoriland, is strongest in Victoria, the
co.’s home State, where it gathers about
half its deposits and makes about half
its advances. Despite the fall in the
price of wool and wheat, the year to
June 30 last was better for the banks
than the one on whose heels it trod.
Locally trade and industry continued to
expand, interest rates strengthened a trifle,
and the heavy flow of imports helped to
swell earnings in the exchange market.
After the board had made whatever
provision was considered necessary for
contingencies, the spring in the C.B.A.’s
gross earnings (£1,053,540) was £58,083.
Exes. (£791,156) were up £43,134. The
net result was thus £14,949 better at
£262,384, which was enough to pay 4
p.e. (£84,694) on the £2,117,350 of pref.
money, and then show 8.8 p.e. on the
£2,000,000 of ord. capital as against 8.1,
7.4, 7.1, 6.2, 6.4, 5.7, 11.4 and 16.9 p.e.
back to 1930. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the
£262,384 was only a shade over 4 p.e. as
against 6.7 p.e. in 1929 and 7.3 p.e. in
1927. Obviously there is not the profit in
banking that there used to be, owing
mainly to the contraction of interest
rates and other margins and the rise in
costs.
The div., steady at 15 p.e. for the
decade to the close of accounts in 1930,
was lifted from 6.6 p.e. to 7.1 p.e., the
final being at the rate of 7.5 p.e. p.a.
it needs to be remembered, however,
that of the £3,808,682 subscribed by
shareholders since 1920 only one half
was called capital, the other half being
share premiums. That explains most of
the visible reserves and makes the actual
return to shareholders equal to no more
than half the declared rate of div. on
all but £95,659 of the ord. capital. The
prefs. participated in the new issues,
which were in the nature of bonuses to
shareholders, because of the premium
the scrip commanded in the market.
In the market the scrip is still under
the shadow of proposed Federal banking
legislation, the possible effects of which
have been roundly condemned by many
captains of trade and industry. The fully-
paid £lO prefs. at £9 Bs. yield 4.2 p.e.
The lOs.-paid ords. are at 16s. 10|d. as
against 18s. 6d. a year ago. At the
lower figure the return is 4.2 p.e. on a
7.1 p.e. div. basis, or 4.4 p.e. on a 1\ p.e.
distribution. The net tangible cover is
£3O 11s. lOd. prefs. and 21s. 9d. ords. It
is thus plain that investors, who back
their opinion with so much of their
money as they choose to employ, think
the co. isn’t earning a reasonable re-
turn on its total funds.
It is as a lender that the co. renders
its best service to the community. Last
year £2,559,810 was added to advances,
owing partly to demand from importers
and partly to the growing needs of
primary producers, especially toward the
close of accounts:
Liabilities.
1936. 1937. 1938.
Notes •• •• £14,981 £6,195 £6.188
Bills, etc. .. 1,306,628 1,362,586 1,602,530
Free deposits.. 11,583,116 13,565,641 13,390,860
Fixed deposits 14,280,550 13,728,136 16,662,014
Assets.
Liquid assets.. 10,370.658 13,926,565 12,374,631
Advances . . 22,211,474 22,124,707 24,684,517
Premises . . 1,178,436 1,190,986 1,196',504
The growth of £239,944 in the bills item
reflects the briskness in local trade.
Liquids were drawn upon for £1,551,934,
while there was a contraction of £174,781
in current accounts and an expansion
of £933,878 in interest-bearing deposits.
When the books closed depositors and
others could see a shade over 39 p.e.
of the amount coming to them in liquids.
Advances were equal to 82.1 p.c. of total
deposits as against 75.5 p.c. at the pre-
vious balance, and the co. was holding
£4 17s. 9d. of the public’s money for
every pound of its own. It is a strong
position.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney)
Reserves
Transferred
June, Profit. Dividends. to Capital. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 49,153 10 p.c. = 25,500 20,000 89,427
1929.. 57,453 10 „ „ 27,500 15,000 104,380
To Reserves.
1930.. 24,909 7 h„ „ 21,740 3,169 107,519
1931.. 23,412 74 „ ,, 21,745 1,667 109,216
1932.. 22,689 74 „ ,, 21,750 939 110,155
1933.. 22,551 74,, „ 21,750 801 110,956
1934.. 34,262 74 „ „ 21,750 12,512 123,468
1935.. 23,218 74 „ ,.21,750 1,468 124,936
1936.. 29,381 10~ „ ,, 29,000 381 125,317
Contingencies reserve disclosed,
£36.716 162,033
1937. . 42,674 124 p.c = 36,250 } 2 >424 164>457
Pension fund, £4000 )
1038.. 29,404 10 p.c. = 29,000 404 164,861
Earnings of this well-dug-in wool- and
produce-broking and stock- and station-
agency business fluctuate according to
seasons and prices. The board doesn’t
broadcast the physical or financial
volume of its turnover, but for the 12
months covered by the latest accounts
Sydney wool clearances (1,095,022 bales)
were down 151,779 bales, and the cheque
(£17,762,421) was £8,358,673 lighter than
for the previous season, the average per
bale being £16 Is. lOd. as against
£20 16s. 8d. for 1936-37. Fewer sheep
and cattle passed under the hammer at
Flemington, too ; cattle prices were satis-
factory, ' but sheep fetched irregular
figures. In the produce section business
continued to expand.
After paying all exes., rebating 10 p.c.
of commission charges (compared with
20 p.c. in previous term), striking off
£464 for depreciation and adding £2921
net to the staff fund, the board figured
profit on trading account at £18,499 (down
£16,373), while £2875 (up £45) was
gathered in interest on fixed deposits and
£8030 (up £58) came in from Consols,
making total profit for the year £29,404
(down £13,270). No visible provision
was made for taxation, whereas £3000
was so set aside in the previous term.
The £29,404 (over one-third of it came
from outside the business) was 10.1 p.c.
on capital, compared with 14.7, 10.1,
8, 11.8, 7.7, 7.8, 8, 8.4 and 20.9 p.c.
back to 1929. The 24 p.c. bonus sent
out in the previous term was dropped,
leaving the div. at 10 p.c.
The market, which expects the 10
p.c. to be maintained, prices the pound
shares at 45s. as against 48s. a year ago.
At the lower figure the return is 4.4 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis, with prospects,
governed by seasonal conditions and
prices, as already pointed out. The cover
is 31s. 4d in net tangibles, and assets are
well worth their book value.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it: —
1935. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £290,000 £290,000 £290,000 £290,000
Overdraft .. — 43,490 54,304 208,530
Sundry creditors 69,030 132,087 75,399 28,213
Freeholds, etc. 154,240 153,769 154,174 154,250
Advances, etc. 90,219 163,250 161,667 256,824
Liquid assets 260,382 300,000 300,236 301,116
The strong demand for accommodation
is reflected in a growth of £95,157 in
advances. To meet the outlay and chip
£47,186 net off the amount coming to
sundry creditors, £154,226 was added to
the overdraft. Including advances, the
contraction in the more or less liquid
surplus (£321,197 = 22s. Id. per share)
was £11,003, due to payment of the pre-
vious year’s bonus, etc. Liquids consist
mainly of fixed deposits (£100,000) and
Consols (£200,000); together equal to
20s. 8d. per share.
As for the current term, recent rains
have improved the outlook; still, the
clip promises to be lighter. Much will
depend upon the course of prices, in
which connection the agreement with
Japan is expected to help.
£quity Trustees Co. (Melb.)
» _ To Re- Re-
dune, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 15,801 18 p.c. = 13,500 2,301 36,894
Profit on sale of freehold, £23,613.. 60,507
1929.. 24,224 18 p.c. = 13,500 10,724 71,231
1930. . 17,964 18 „ „ 13,500 4,464 75,695
Share premiums, £15,000 .. ., 90,695
1931.. 12,277 16 p.c. — 14,099 — 88,873
1932.. 10,072 12 „ „ 10,800 — 88,145
1933.. 11,760 12 „ „ 10,800 960 89,105
1934.. 14,951 12 „ „ 10,800 4,151 93,256
1935.. 11,973 12 „ „ 10,800 1,173 94,429
Staff fund, £844 .. .. .. 93,585
1930.. 12,875 12 p.c. ” 10,800 2,075 95,660
Staff fund, £1339 . . . . }
1937.. 15,925 12 p.c. = 10,800} 1,255 96,915
Written off premises, £2531 I
Staff fund, £1499 . . . . ]
1938.. J6,259' 12 p.c. = 10,800 } 1,185 98,100
Written off premises, £2775 J
The Equity, which has a pleasing
history, a solid financial structure, strong
connections, and has provided from
among its former directors half a dozen
members of the Victorian judiciary and
the present Chief Justice of Australia,
celebrates its 50th anniversary by show-
ing the best profit for the last eight
years. Indeed, only on three occasions
( 27, ’29 and ’3O) since the co. was
iormed has it done better. It does not
disclose the volume of trusts on hand,
nor separate in the published accounts
amounts received in interest and rents
from commission earnings, etc. Still,
there is a steadily-growing recognition of
the advantages of the corporate over the
private trustee. This and complications
associated with the administration of
estates are driving more business into
the expert care of the cos. these days.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the Equity’s gross earn-
ings from all sources stepped up £2454,
reaching a record £57.415:
Gross Exes. p.e.
•June, Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910 .. £17,131 £11,328 66.1
1920 .. 20,673 14,775 55.3
1930 . . 52,328 34,364 65.6
1931. . 47,338 35,061 73.6
1932 . . 43,454 33,382 76.9
1933 . . 45,244 33,484 74.0
1934 . . 49,857 34,906 70.0
1935 . . 50,300 38,327 76.1
1936 . . 51,527 38,652 75.4
1937 . . 54,961 39,036 71.0
1938 . . 57,415 41,156 71.6
Exes, took £2120 of the increase, leaving
the net result (up £334) at a wink ovei
18 p.e. on the £90,000 of capital, com-
pared with 17.7, 14.3, 13.3, 16.6, 13, 11,
14 and 23.9 p.e. back to 1930. That
leaves out of the reckoning £1499 sent
to the staff fund and £2775 written off
premises. The div. remained at 12 p.e.,
and has done so since 1932, the average
over the last 30 years being 15 p.e.
sweetened with £50,000 of gift capital.
Over the same period shareholders put
up an extra £30,000 in cash (one half
capital and the other half share pre-
miums), and when the books last closed
reserves were heaped £BlOO higher than
paid capital.
At the end of June the capital, re-
serves and a mortgage of £31,612 (there
was nothing coming to sundry creditors)
were represented by freehold, £140,247 ;
debtors’ balances, £71,633 ; Government
securities and cash, £16,007.
The 50s. shares paid to 10s. —the other
40s. is a reserve liability callable only in
the event of liquidation—fetch 255. 9d.
on the market as against 275. 9d. a year
ago. The return at the fower figure is
4.6 p.e. on a 12 p.e. div. basis, with pos-
sibilities as a holding proposition. The
cover is 255. in net tangibles.
Hume Pipe (Far East), Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928 . . 11,301 10 p.e. = 4000 7,301 3,802
1929 . . 11,699 15 „ „ 6000 5,699 9,501
1930 . . 12,074 15 „ „ 60(10 6,074 15,575
1931 .. 11,001 15 ~ „ 6000 5,001 20,576
1932 . . 1,679 10 „ 4000 18,255
1933 , . 2,413 6 „ „ 2400 13 18,268
Written off, £365 .. .. .. 17,903
1934 . . 3,627 6 p.e. = 2700 927 18,830
Written off, £3286 15,544
Currency adjustment, £14,118 .. 29,662
1935 . . 1,610 3 p.e. = 1500 Ufi 29,772
Unexplained additions, £3281 .. 33,053
1936 .. 14,345 5 p.e. = 2500 11,845 44,89 S
Share premiums, £351 . . . . 45.249
1937 . . 18,664 10 p.e. = 5625 13,039 58,288
Loss Shanghai plant, £3765 } c flCn R!> An „
1938.. 16,6$ 10 p.e. - 7500 } B>OSO 8 > OSO 62 ’ 60 °
Shareholders in this £75,000 co. —it is
the smallest and most successful unit in
the Hume organisation—have agreed to
the board’s proposal for amalgamation
with the parent (paid capital now
£500,000) on the basis of three f.-p. 1\
p.e. cum. prefs. for every two shares now
held. The declared aim is to take some
of the sting out of heavy double tax-
ation, for which purpose the Far East co.,
at present registered in Melbourne, is to
be registered in Malaya. Its pound
shares were at 295. 6d. on the market
when the proposal was announced. Last
week-end they fetched 345., on which
basis the purchaser is paying 225. Bd.
apiece for the new prefs. At 225. Bd.
the yield is 6.6 p.e., and the backing,
according to the last published balance-
sheet figures of the two cos., was
over £6 in net tangibles. The p.e.
will call for £8437 p.a. (= 11£ p.e. on
vendor co.’s capital), which was over
eight times covered by last declared net
earnings of the two cos. combined.
Over the last 11 years, the Far East co.
paid divs. averaging 9.5 p.e. from profits


2% fflnmmmtal Hanking (Enmpang
of Htmtipii
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Limited)
Board of Directors:
JAMES ASHTON, Chairman. EDWARD R. KNOX, Deputy Chairman.
OWEN E. FRIEND. SIR WILLIAM VICARS, C.B.E. ORWELL PHILLIPS.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
30th JUNE, 1938.
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting
to be held at the Head Banking House, 343 George Street, Sydney,
on Friday, 12th August, 1938.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders the Balance Sheet as on 30th June, 1938, with a
copy of the Auditors' Report thereon. A copy of the Profit and Loss Account is annexed.
The profit for the year after payment of all expenses of
management and taxes, and provision for rebate on
current bills and accrued interest on fixed deposits, and
for bad and doubtful debts and other contingencies,
amounts to £365,975 0 6
To which is added the amount brought forward from 30th
June, 1937 119,231 15 9
making a total of £485,200 16 3
from which the Directors have made the following appro-
priations :
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended 31st
December, 1937, at the rate of 7 per cent, per
annum paid on 28th January, 1938 £105,865 8 9
„ Reduction of Bank Premises Account amount
written off for depreciation 35,000 0 0 200,865 8 9
leaving a balance of £284,341 7 6
and now recommend—
Payment of a dividend for the half-year ended 30tli
June, 1938, at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum ‘£165,865 8 9
leaving the amount to be carried forward 118,475 18 9 284,341 7 6
The Directors desire to place on record their appreciation of the valuable services of Mr.
A. T. Creswick, who, after having been a member of the Board of Management for Victoria for
more than ten years, retired in October last.
The Meeting is called upon to elect a Director consequent on the retirement, in terms of
the Articles of Association, of Mr. Owen Esmond Friend, who is eligible for election, and has
given the requisite notice that he is a candidate.
It rests also with the Meeting to appoint Auditors and fix their remuneration.
The Auditors, Messrs. Francis William Hixson and Cecil Howe Doyle, now retire; Mr. Doyle,
being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. Notice of intention to nominate Mr. Harington
Burrough Cowper, a former Auditor of the Company, to the office of Auditor, has been given by
a member to the Company pursuant to Section 113 of the Companies Act, 1936.
During the year, branches of the Bank have been established at Burcher, Manly and
Roseville in the State of New South Wales, at Malanda in the State of Queensland, and at
Warragul in the State of Victoria.
JAMES ASHTON,
Chairman.
BALANCE SHEET, 30th JUNE, 1938.
LIABILITIES.
Capital— ~ s ‘ d-
Authorised 12,000,000 0 0
in 480,000 shares of £25 each.
Issued—379,l2l shares of
.£25 each .. 9,478,025 0 0
Less:
Reserve
Capital of
£l2/10/-
per share . 4,739,012 10 0
Paid up 4,739,012 10 0
Reserve Fund
(wholly
used in the
business of
the Bank) . 4,300,000 0 0
9,039,012 10 0
Notes in Circulation 13,621 10 0
Bills in Circulation 1,349,094 4 3
Deposits and other Liabilities—
including provision for con-
tingencies 54,659,193 16 6
Profit and Loss Account .... 284,341 7 6
• £65,345,263 8 3
WILLIAM VICARS. /
E. R. KNOX. )
Directors.
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Coin, Bullion, Australian Notes
and Cash at Bankers 6,440,567 17 11
Money at Short Call ... 1,440,000 0 0
Short dated Treasury Bills of
the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia 6,000,000 0 0
British and Australian Gov-
ernment Stocks and other
Securities at or below market
value (including £4,000
lodged as security with
Public Authorities) 5,303,894 10 0
Bills Receivable in London and
Remittances in Transit ... 2,523,919 18 0
Notes and Bills of other Banks 636,528 8 4
22,344,910 14 3
Bills Discounted and other
Debts due to the Bank—
after provision for ascer-
tained Bad and Doubtful
Debts 41,795,387 14 0
Bank Premises—at cost, less
amounts written off 1,204,965 0 0
£65,345,263 8 3
JAMES ASHTON, Chairman of Directors.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet and compared it with the books at the Head
Office and with the returns from the Branches. We have verified the Bills and counted the
Cash at the Head Office. We have obtained all the information and explanations we have
required, and in our opinion the Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true
and correct view of the state of the Company's affairs according to the best of our information
and the explanations given to us, and as shown by the books of the Company.
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the Company is required
to keep by law or by its Articles have been properly kept.
F. W. HIXSON. ] Al](1Uor „
Sydney, 22nd July, 1938. C. H. DOYLE. t auditors.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Interim Dividend for tne
half-year ended 31st Decem-
ber, 1937, at the rate of 7
per cent, per annum, paid
on 28th January, 1938 £165,865 8 9
„ Reduction of Bank Premises
Account 35,000 0 0
Balance proposed to be dealt
with as follows :
To Dividend for
the half-year
ended 30th
June, 1938, at
the rate of 7
per cent, per
annum £165,865 8 9
„ Amount car-
ried forward.. 118,475 18 9
284,341 7 6
£485,206 16 3
WILLIAM V T CARS. \
E- K. KNOX. 5
Directors.
By Amount brought forward
from 30th June, 1937 £119,2?, 1 15 9
~ Profit for the year ended
30th June, 1938, after pay-
ment of all expenses of man-
agement (including Directors’
Fees, £3,000) and taxes and
provision for rebate on cur-
rent , bills and accrued in-
terest on fixed deposits, ,nd
for bad and doubtful debts
and other contingencies ... 365,975 0 6
£485,206 16 3
JAMES ASHTON, Chairman of Directors.
C. DARVALL, G neral Manager.
FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY: This advertisement is not cm invitation to the
Public to subscribe for shares, the whole of the shares having already been fully
subscribed for.
CONSOLIDATED FIBRE
PRODUCTS LIMITED
{To be incorporated under the Companies Act of Victoria.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £150,000 divided into
50,000 72% Preference Shares of £1 each, ranking
pari passu £50,000
100,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each . . £lOO,OOO
£150,000
THE PRESENT ISSUE:
25,000 7-2 % Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each £25,000
(The whole of this issue has been fully
subscribed).
ORDINARY CAPITAL TO BE ISSUED:
65,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each, fully paid . .
HELD IN RESERVE:
25,000 Preference Shares of £1 each
35,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each
£65,000
£25,000
£35,000
150,000
£150,000
DIRECTORS:
SUSMAN MELTZER, 321 William Street, Melbourne, C. 1, Managing Director.
WILLIAM GORE NORMAN, 101 William Street, Melbourne, C. 1, Solicitor.
DAVID ALEXANDER PRENTICE, 409 Collins Street, Melbourne, C. 1, Stock
and Share Broker (representing the Preference Shareholders).
BANKERS: The Bank of New South Wales.
AUDITOR: Arthur Henry Etherington, Chartered Accountant (Aust.), of the
firm of J. S. Eastwood & Co., Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
440 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C. 1.
SOLICITORS: Whiting & Byrne, 101 William Street, Melbourne, C. 1.
CERTIFYING ACCOUNTANTS FOR THE ISSUE:
Flack & Flack, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 128 William Street,
Melbourne, C. 1.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
CHARLES EDWARD MILES, Chartered Accountant (Aust.), 321 William
Street, Melbourne, C. 1.
UNDERWRITING BROKER:
DAVID ALEXANDER PRENTICE, 409 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l,
Member of the Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The Company is being formed for the principal object of purchasing as
a going concern as from the 31st day of December, 1937, all the undertaking
and assets, including goodwill, of Consolidated Fibre Products, Limited (the
Vendor Company), subject to all liabilities. The Vendor Company was
incorporated in Victoria on the 21st day of August, 1935, for the purpose
(inter alia) of acquiring all the issued shares of Egg Fillers and Containers
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd., the Carton Company Pty., Ltd., and Vickery Engineering
Proprietary, Limited, and controlling the respective businesses of these
Companies.
The Company will carry on the business of Pulp Moulders and act as
Distributors and Managing Agents of the manufactured articles and com-
modities of its above subsidiary companies.
The purchase price is £55,000, to be satisfied by the allotment to the
Vendor Company or its nominees of 55,000 fully-paid ordinary shares of
£ 1 each.
AMOUNT REQUIRED FOR PAYMENT OF PREFERENCE
DIVIDEND.
The yearly amount required to pay the dividend on 25,000 l\°/c -
Cumulative Preference Shares is £1875, and reference to the report of
Messrs. Flack & Flack shows that over a period of three years, taking the
average net profits (with taxation paid) at £7266, the yearly dividend is
covered approximately 3f times.
With the introduction of the new capital it is anticipated that the net
profits will appreciably increase.
‘ ASSETS BACKING FOR PREFERENCE SHARES.
Taking into account the new capital of 25,000 l\ c /o Cumulative
Preference Shares, less promotion expenses, and the allotment of 55,000
fully-paid ordinary shares of £1 each to the Vendor Company and the issue
of 1 0,000 fully-paid ordinary shares in reduction of the shareholders’ Advance
Account in the books of the Vendor Company, the net tangible asset
backing for the preference capital is £81,869/11/11, which is equivalent to
£3/5/5 per share.
Application will be made to the Stock Exchange of Melbourne after
allotment of the present issue for official quotation of the preference shares.
averaging 19.8 p.c. on its capital, which
had the support and assistance of £62,503
of reserves at the end of March. Before
striking off the remaining book value
(£3765) of the Shanghai plant (the build-
ing is now occupied by Japanese as a
repair depot), profit for the 12 months
to March 31 was 20.6 p.c. on capital,
and the div. was maintained at 10 p.c.
For a more or less assured return and
immediate gain in income, together with
a probable capital gain on the market,
shareholders have transferred their rights
to future benefits from the business, as
indicated by the co.’s high earning power
and its mounting reserves, to the ords. in
the parent co.
Last year’s earnings, or all but a frac-
tion of them, came from Malaya, where
two large contracts were held up, and
where further expansion of sales is ex-
pected, despite lower output and prices
for tin and rubber. The steel pipe-
making plant at Kowloon (Southern
China), taken over from Hume Steel, is
expected to “ultimately earn satisfactory
profits.”
The year’s growth in the book value of
fixed assets was £30,839 —a concrete-
pipe plant was erected at Penang, and
another is going up at Kuala Lumpur
(F.M.S.):
1930. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. £40,000 £50,000 £75,000 £75,000
Sundry creditors .. 2,637 44,494 37,006 60,002
Land, buildings and
plant .. .. 21,694 91,826 87,907 118,746
Stock 13,307 19,158 53,925 66,542
Book debts .. 5,506 26,175 43,631 26,021
Cash, etc. .. 25,979 7,985 743 820
Of the outside debt (up £22,996) £18,218
was coming to the parent. Including
stocks (up £12,617), the contraction in
the more or less liquid surplus (£33,381)
was £27,912.
The parent, whose business is spread
through the Commonwealth and Maori-
land, has not yet sent out its accounts
for the 12 months to June 30. For the
preceding year it netted £55,936 (up
£21,931), or 11.2 p.c. on capital, and paid
6 p.c. as against 5 p.c. for the previous
term.
Hastings Deering Service, Ltd.
The keynote of successful business
to-day is efficient service, which depends
largely upon accurate anticipation com-
bined with frictionless routine, and that
calls for imagination, together with prac-
tical care for detail. Judged on this basis,
this one of the Hastings Deering group,
which set up at Sydney early in August,
1935, has thus far given a very good
account of itself. It is in the motor ser-
vice-station business, deals in Ford pro-
ducts and Exide batteries, does full-circle
tyre remoulding and retreading, etc., and
trades on a semi-co-operative basis.
After paying exes, and making what-
ever provision for contingencies is con-
sidered necessary, the co. distributes sur-
plus profits in excess of 7 p.c. on capital
(pref. and ord. combined) among share-
holders, according to their purchases from
the business. Also, for a fee of £3 (£3
10s. to outsiders) those on the share-
register can have their cars inspected
after each 500 miles of running, and
lubrication and the usual service adjust-
ments attended to up to a total of
10,000 miles p.a.
No goodwill or preliminary exes,
figure in the accounts, and the co. is trad-
ing within its resources. Profits, which
have been earned from the jump, con-
tinue to step up as the volume of busi-
ness expands, and the prefs. have had
their 7 p.c. regularly, while “purchasers’
dividends,” or rebates to shareholder
clients (amount not disclosed in the pub-
lished accounts), have been sent out quar-
terly.
Here are trading results, etc., in tabloid
form:
t ——T) i vi (lends
Net Pref. To Re- Re -
Aug., Profit. 7p.c. Old. serves, serves.
1936*.. £127 £lO5 Nil £22 £22
1937 .. 2701 735 Nil 1969 1991
Feb.,
1938 t • • 2029 1016 Nil 1013 3001
*l3 months, f Six months.
Profit for the six months to the end of
February was at the rate of £4058 p.a. : —
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
20.2 p.c. on ord. capital. But money
was wanted in the business, and the ords.,
(i Continued on next page.)


*
au
m
m
m
m
WX&8&8!®
%
• ■ ■
d
Id
*m
w
XV-
y.\
*vi .iMlL'* ■/■*■'■'
wmmmmmm
1000 couples to marry
THIS WEEK
About iooo couples will marry in Australia this week. Are you,
reader, to be amongst the venturers? If you are, here is a
suggestion for your happiness.
Marriage is a romantic business, but money plays an important part
in it. You should plan for financial security. Love is not enough. There
must be a home, and provision for rainy days, and peace of mind
about the future.
A young man, about to marry, came to one of the Society’s offices recently
to assure his life for a further £5OO. (He already had a policy for £250.) He
said that, when he was born, his father had taken out for him (the son) an
A.M.P. policy that had recently brought him over four hundred pounds. That
money enabled him to marry. He now wanted the help of the Society in provid-
ing his bride-to-be with protection. The suggestion we have to make, reader, is
that you provide adequate protection for your bride-to-be, or your wife if you
have married.
A yoting man, marrying at 26, can assure his life for £5OO for an annual
investment of £ll/3/9, about 4/4 a week. Where is the young husband, in
work, who cannot afford to make that provision for the girl who has linked her
life with his?
A book, "Investing in Happiness," will gladly be sent to any address. Write
for it to-day.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.T.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
D. E. Walker, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydnev,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* % * :i:
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B.* Davie*.
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney .—A ovt.
: i : *>' &
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. Write
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
'Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
i . W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
not being hungry, were again passed by
—their div. is limited to 7 p.c. p.a., with
the possibility of other benefits later—
leaving £lOl3 to put on the shelf. After
31 months’ trading, shareholders could
thus see the whole of their capital intact
and £3004 besides, subject to intangibles,
it any, in Hastings Deering Building, Ltd.
At the end of February paid capital
was £53,175 in 61,585 first 7 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 10,000 ords., all of £1 each—
there was £18,410 to come (then un-
called) on the prefs., and £2528 had been
deposited on unallotted shares. The
ords. (except 100 held by each of the
three directors) are owned by Hastings
Deering Pty., in which H. Hastings Deer-
ing (founder of the Deering group) holds
92 p.c. of the issued capital.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
Aug’., Feb.,
1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. .. .. £34,73*5 £53,17*5
Deposit on shim- 617 2,528
Sundry creditors 2,577 7,777
Plant 3,200 4,902
Stocks 7,631 11,156
Debtors 15,566 18.517
Cash 1,947 5,363
Loan 7,000 10,075
Investment' 6,500 20,007
Investments consist of shares in, and the
loans are to, Hastings Deering Building,
Ltd., formed by Mr. Deering to put up
the fine new six-storeyed island service
station, etc. (cost £125,000 or there-
abouts), just off the city end of William-
street, which is the main traffic artery to
the Eastern Suburbs. The Service co.
has taken a lease of this building at an
annual rental equal to 8 p.c. of cost, and
intends to take up another 10,000 shares,
making its total holding 40,000 —the loan
has been applied to purchase of scrip.
To help finance further expansion of the
business and supplement facilities to share-
holders and clients —the co. now intends
to discount its own hire-purchase sales,
etc. —45,000 new second prefs. are now
offered. Ranking immediately after the
firsts, they carry a fixed cumulative 7 p.c.,
with priority as to capital, but no voting
power, except in matters connected with
alteration of their rights or winding up
or sale of the business. When fully sub-
scribed and paid, they will, together with
28,415 firsts and 5000 ords. issued since
the close of last accounts, make paid capi-
tal £150,000 in 90,000 first and 45,000
second 7 p.c. prefs. and 15,000 ords. In-
dividual pref. holdings are limited to
500 shares, the aim being to increase the
number of shareholder customers.
When the present issue is all taken and
fully paid, and subject to exes, in con-
nection therewith, the net tangible cover
will be approximately 335. 4d. firsts and
265. Bd. seconds. Although the pre-
ponderance of pref. capital makes the
pref. rights, especially of the seconds,
largely nominal, the shares have a definite
appeal to car-owners, to whom the 7 p.c.
div. will be worth more according to
their purchases, and therefore rebates,
from the co.
Consolidated Fibre Products, Ltd.
This is a Melbourne float to take over
as a going concern, as from December
31 last, a business of the same name.
The vendor co. owns all the issued capital
of Egg Fillers and Containers (Aust.)
Pty., the Carton Co. Pty. and Vickery
Engineering Pty. The new co. will carry
on the business of pulp-moulders and
act as distributors and managing agents
for the foregoing three working cos. Pur-
chase price is £55,000 (including £6130
for goodwill), payable in f.-p. ords.
To finance expansion of the business,
public has been offered 25,000 £1 74 p.c.
cum. prefs. at par. The issue was under-
written and taken firm by D. A. Prentice,
Melbourne sharebroker, at a commission
of Is. a share.
Egg Fillers and Containers is engaged
in the manufacture and distribution of
egg-packing material for the local and
export trade. The co. turns out both
fillers made of wood-pulp in conjunction
with cup flats, and Keyes egg trays under
arrangement with the Keyes Fibre Co.,
of New York. The carton co. manu-
factures multicolored printed and un-
printed cartons, and the engineering
offshoot, which has just completed instal-
lation of pulp-making plant for Egg Fil-
lers and Containers, is engaged in general
and constructional engineering. Prospects
for all three cos., located in leasehold
premises in William-street, Melbourne,
are reported bright.
Accountants Flack and Flack report
combined profits for the group, after pro-
viding for depreciation and taxes and
eliminating inter-company profits, of
£6864, 1935 ; £7460, 1936; £7474, 1937.
That was before charging £6B, £1076 and
£1793 respectively in interest, which it is
expected the new issue will largely save.
The new co. will acquire net tangibles
with a book value of £48,869. Loans from
old shareholders will be reduced by
£lO,OOO by the issue of f.-p. ordinaries
at par, and the balance of shareholders’
advances will be left with the new co.,
free of interest, and repayable within two
years. Allowing for these and minor
adjustments, the position after the present
financing will be as follows:
Capital—Pref. . . £25,000 J Plant, etc. .. £55,745
Ord. .. 65,000 I Leasehold .. 1,642
| Stocks .. .. 31,373
Sundry creditors 12,875 | Debtors.. .. 3,527
Shareholder's’ loans 8,617 J Cash, etc. .. 14,709
Tax provision .. 3,634 I Intangibles . . 8,130
£115,126 j £115,126
On that basis net tangible backing for
the new prefs. will amount to £3 ss. sd.
per share. Plant and machinery, which
appear at valuation of A. T. Richardson
and Sons, Melb. engineers, are reported
in full working order and modern. Addi-
tions have been recently made by all cos.
The pref. charge on 25,000 shares will
call for £1875 annually—four times
covered by last term’s declared net earn-
ings, before charging interest. Pref.-
holders have representation on the board
—D. A. Prentice is their first director —
and prior rights to capital and a fixed
74 p.c. div., whether declared, earned or
not, down to time of any liquidation,
without further participation in profits
or assets ; also voting rights when their
div. is three months in arrear, when a
capital reduction or sale of the business
is proposed or their interests are at stake.
No shares are to be issued in priority to
the present issue without pref.-holders’
consent, and the ratio of ord. to pref.
capital is not to fall below 2 to 1.
Management of all cos. is to remain in
the hands of Susman Meltzer. The scrip
will be listed.
The decision of Tronoh Finance to
exercise its option over Beechworth Allu-
vials’ Harrietville property, where some-
thing like 60,000,000 c.y. was estimated
to be available, will provide Victoria with
its third major alluvial gold proposition
—Cocks Eldorado, in the same district,
and Victoria Gold Dredging, which has
just reached production at Newstead, are
the other two. An offshoot of Tronoh
Mines, Ltd., a London concern with large
Malayan tin interests, the Finance co. is
to float a £350,000-£375,000 co. to work
the property. Beechworth is to get
£15,000 in cash, a £25,000 fully-paid share-
holding (plus 10 p.c. of any capital in-
crease above £375,000) and right to take
up £lO,OOO worth of scrip in the operat-
ing co. at par. The cash and free-share
consideration are together equal to 6s.
per Beechworth share—present market
valuation of the scrip. Other strings to
Beechworth’s bow are a Freeburgh (Vic.)
area of 7,629,000 c.y. of 10.7 d. wash
(down to 24ft.), which Tronoh Finance
is also investigating at depth, and a
Tuross River (N.S.W.) proposition
where scoutboring is in progress. At
Dec. 31 the Beechworth co.’s only tan-
gible asset was 77,800 shares in Reedy
Creek Alluvials which a disappointed
market prices around 9d. each.
* * * *
Ore reserves at South Kalgurli (W.A.)
at March 31 last consisted of 186,300
tons of 5.66dwt. stuff blocked and
101,300 tons of 5.44dwt. probable ore.
Estimated reserves six months previously
were 183,300 tons of 5.72dwt. blocked
and 98,400 tons of s.sldwt. probable.
At March 31, 1937, the figures were
194,600 tons s|dwt. blocked and 84,000
tons 5.63dwt. probable.
lindals (W.A.), which recently raised
£25,000 sterling in London for plant and
also induced the State Government to
guarantee a bank overdraft to the extent
of £A30,000 for development, has ordered
a 5000-ton-a-month mill from Ruwolts.
There is reckoned to be enough sdwt.
ore in sight to keep the mill working to
capacity for upwards of five years. There
are 4,480,000 2s. issued shares, including
1,980,000 taken by the vendors.
* * * *
Latest annual report of Yellowdine
Gold Areas (W.A.) shows that (1) there
is nothing to justify commencement of
borehole prospecting for the extension,
if there is any, of the rich Yellowdine
shoot, (2) invitations to take options
over and/or invest funds in three other
shows have been turned down, (3) the
co. has looked for and failed to find a
mine at Mt. Sir Samuel on the East
Murchison field, (4) an option has been
taken over a new auriferous find 42
miles north of Bullfinch on the Yilgarn
field which, according to official reports,
promises to be a good thing, and (5)
£13,499 is in hand.
* * * *
Hannan’s Hill Amalgamated gave
Barbican Corporation a cash-and-share
option over the Hannan’s Reward-Mt.
Charlotte leases, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), and
later Barbican assigned the option to Mt.
Charlotte Gold Mines, Ltd. When the
latter wanted to pay up and take over the
property, Hannan’s Hill Amalgamated
refused to sign the transfers. The Kal-
goorlie warden said the refusal was un-
warranted, and ordered the execution of
the deal.
* * * *
North Kalgurli United, one of the De
Bernales Westralian group, had a pleasant
afternoon roll-up in London the other
day. Ex-Governor Campion (chairman)
said the year’s developments warranted
the belief that work at the 600 ft. and
700 ft. levels would result in location of
valuable gold-carriers, and that efforts
were being made to obtain finance for a
treatment plant.
* * * *.
Swan Bitter, N.L., has received a report
from its manager on the Broken Bond
goldmine at Magnet (W.A.). He is en-
thusiastic about prospects, and expresses
“certain belief” that the option held by
the co. will be duly exercised. Mean-
while all plant and equipment, with the
exception of the battery, has been moved
from the old mine at Jonesville to the
Broken Bond—the battery will follow
later if sufficient inducements offer.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.P.F.: You are entitled to inspect the share-
register at the co.’s headquarters on payment of
a small fee, or gratis if you are a shareholder
yourself, or you may go to the Registrar-
General’s office Ringey: (1) Yes. (2) There
are about a dozen tax-free issues listed, but
the stock is tightly held by those with large
incomes. (3) Any broker will endeavor to buy
for you... .D.A.W.: No open market. Write
secretary and ask if he can find a buyer for
you G.T.C.: Until scheme of realisation is
made known, it is difficult to say what divs..
if any, are likely to be paid. Chances of realis-
ing anything approaching prospectus estimates
arc not bright.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
1
IH
illlllll S
Hill
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms* Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
06363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Bull in a Radio Shop.”— “D.T.”
“Bull” seems to be inseparable from
radio.
4* + +
“It is now a hundred years since canary-
breeding began in the Hartz Mountains of Ger-
many.”
That’s something to make a song about.
4* 4* 4* 4»
“Dr. Sargent Is Frank.” — “S. M. Herald.”
He isn’t; he’s Malcolm.
4* 4* 4* 4
“A Sydney milk-bar advertises its coffee:
‘Big Fat Pots Made as You Like Them.’ ”
But Mrs. Jones read it differently, and
took her husband along to have him
slimmed.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mrs. Poole opened the door, but instead of
being greeted in husband-like fashion the fowls
were thrown in her face.” — “Truth.”
He gave her the bird, so she brought
him before the Beak.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The most impressive expression of a poet
is to be found in the ode.” — “S.M.H.”
Especially if it is owed to a landlord.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Before such luxuries can be enjoyed fortunes
must be made. The man who wants them must
make his money first.” —Lecturer on sociology.
And then, of course, the trouble is to
make his money last.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Saxophonist Finds Halls, Public, Cold.”
—“D.T.”
Blew and became blue, in fact.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“We Could never get on without an adequate
police force,” states a Sunday paper.
It is certainly very useful in a pinch.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Anti-betting Bill is a fraud.”
—Sporting weekly.
In a manner of speaking, SPurious.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She took in the gaping idlers, the drab
huddle of shops and houses, and was silent.”
—Short Story.
Naturally, she was too full for words.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Permanent waves originated in Hollywood,”
declares beauty expert.
But not permanent wives.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Vegetable Matter.
“This cult claims that it can cure most ail-
ments with a vegetable diet.” — Woman’s paper.
Dr. Rue Barb turned wrathfully on
Mrs. Ponybeer.
“How dare you come here and tell me
I’m giving your husband the wrong
treatment!” he roared.
“And I stiff say it,” shrieked Mrs.
Ponybeer. “Only last night he bucked
at doing the washing-up, swore that he
wasn’t going to be saddled with my work
and that he intended to kick over the
traces.”
Dr. Rue Barb stumped out of the
room.
Two days later Mrs. Ponybeer rushed
in and wildly waved a note under the
doctor’s nose.
“Listen to this, you fool, and then say
who was right!” she snapped.
The doc. read:
“Good-bye, old hoss. I have taken the
bit in my mouth and decided to bolt
with a little hoofer from the variety
stage.”
Dr. Rue Barb was silent. He had made
a ghastly mistake in putting old Pony-
beer on the horseradish cure'
D. McM.
A Question of Size.
“It is the little things that count with a
woman.” — Woman’s paper.
Striving to waken a response in the
hard heart of Angela, I bought her huge
bunches of flowers ; she merely nipped
my advances in the bud.
I gave her huge boxes of chocolates,
but they failed to make her sweet on
me.
Then I realised the importance of little
things, and very soon Angela was cling-
ing round my neck. Yes, the little things
counted all right. They were a diamond-
ring and a pair of pearl earrings.
T. W. N.
•F *F *F *F
Just because a sailor knows all about
knots it doesn’t say that he won’t get into
a tangle!
•F «F »F »F
“Football official says that it is disappoint-
ing for footballers to play to empty benches.”
When there is a crowd, of course, it
cheers them.
•F *F *F *F
“Son for Empire Billiards Champion.”
—News item.
Some nursery play is indicated.
“Just you wait there , dearie, an I'll run an git a doctor .”
“Fillet steak is not eaten by the poor."
‘Labor Daily.”
It is a cut above their purses.
*F *F *l* *F
“Her husband declared that she had received
presents from three other men as well as the
co-respondent.” —Divorce Item.
Apparently he had a very gifted wife.
4* + 4 1 .♦
“We must get back to the time when actors
had to speak plainly, use their hands, and act!”
—Peter Sergei, producer.
To-day, unfortunately, actors often
have to speak quickly, use their wits and
run.
•F * *F *F
When Pan puts down his pipes and sighs,
And grey clouds drift across the skies;
When leaves are falling in the rain.
’Tis time for rum-and-milk again!
McM.
“Unemployed gent, like to meet unemployed
lady, view friendship.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser” agony ad.
There’s equality of the sexes for you.
4« 4* 4* 4*
A correspondent says he is now certain
the motor-car is replacing the horse. He
found a piece of rubber tyre in a sausage,
4* 4* 4* 4*
The more housekeeping money a
woman receives the less she keeps to the
house.
.j. 4. 4.
Own Mechanic*
B Mechanic.
VI. Reassembling.
The secret of good reassembling is
to be methodical. Work back in ex-
actly the reverse order to that employed
in dismantling, i.e„ start on the distribu-
tor and finish up with the cylinder heads,
To avoid mixing up the various pieces
that have been taken apart it is a good
plan to number the pages of a book
from 1 onwards. As each part is taken
off the full technical name is entered
on the page allotted and the correspond-
ing number put on the part, thus: No. 1
—Flat gadget, looks like cork, 1 of;
No 2— Black things that fit somewhere
near distributor, 3 of; and so on. Num-
bered metal tags can then be lightly sol-
dered on to the corresponding part.
For those who don’t wish to incur this
expense the numbers can be painted on
the parts but don’t use paint of a con-
trasting color, which is unsightly. Think
of the humiliation later if the garage-
man, when greasing your car, happened
to see “No. 14” splashed in gold paint
across a nickelled split-pin! All you will
need will be black paint for the black
parts, rust-colored paint for those parts
that have gone rusty, and nickel paint
for any nickelled parts. It mightn’t be
quite so easy to see the numbers, but
at least it will look tidier.
You might experience trouble in get-
ting the distributor head on again, as
it is necessarily a very tight fit. Try
warping it on first with, say, a shoehorn
or a tyre-lever. Should this fail, don’t
waste time fooling around. Take a bit
off the inside rim with a hacksaw, after
which it should go on easily. If it is
then too loose, you will have to pack it,
for it must be water- and airtight. Should
you be out of quick-drying cement or
shellac, strips of an old shirt soaked in
office-gum and rammed in tightly Will
prove effective.
Now push all the pistons and valves
j 3ac j c j n j 0 place again. Some of these,
following your cleaning and grinding
efforts, may not be an exact fit. Here
jt will be as well to abandon the “corre-
sponding number” system. Just shuffle
them all up together with your eyes
closed and pop them in anywhere. Re-
member that a valve slightly out of shape
that won’t fit into its original port might,
with a bit of juggling, fluke another. The
misfits left over can then be treated
according t 0 their peculiarities. Remem-
her t j iat hammer should be resorted
to to force them in only when all other
methods have failed,
The valve that has had too much
joggling up and down in the valve-
grinding paste and has become worn a
bit will present no difficulty ; it can easily
be dropped in, with room to spare. It
is the one that has been pushed out of
shape when you cleaned it with the coarse
file that is likely to give trouble. How-
ever, a simple yet sound principle of
physics can here be enlisted to your
advantage.
As metal inevitably expands under
heat, play a blowlamp on to the valve-
port until it has expanded sufficiently to
allow of the valve’s being forced in. Once
it is in you’ll be set, as, with the with-
drawal of the heat, the metal will con-
tract, thus holding the valve in firmly,
When you have been compelled to
chip pieces off what you thought was
part No. 66 so as to get it to fit in, and
later discover that it was part No. 99
upside down and that it is now so small
that it wobbles around in its proper
niche, don’t fly off the handle. Reflect
calmly that the part must have been
nearly worn out, anyhow, and that you’d
have had to buy a new one shortly in
any case.
To get the half-full sump on again first
take the superstructure off the kid’s billy-
cart and get on your back along its
chassis. Now balance the sump on your
chest, hold the steering cords tightly and
your legs rigid, and get the kids to give
you a push. Guide yourself under the
car until you reach the sump position ;
then relinquish the cords and grab the
crankshaft. After having manoeuvred
yourself into the correct position hook
your toes in some convenient part, other-
wise the billycart chassis may move.
Now arch the back so as to press the
sump against the car chassis ; by main-
taining the pressure you will leave your
hands free to strike matches so as to
see where the bolt holes go. With
ordinary luck, three tjoxes should be
sufficient.
When on this job keep the kids within
easy roaring distance so that, when you
have tightened every nut up on the sump
and, as you crawl out to ease your
aching back, you see the nuts off the
big ends that you forgot to put back,
they will be available to help you again
when once more you have to dismantle
the sump.
Having got everything back as nearly
as you can remember, switch the engine
on, step on the self-starter and listen
intently. As it engages there will be a
rattling, grinding sound, a few slight
pops, a smell of burning rubber and then
—silence.
S.W.K.
A Poor Theory.
“According to a psychologist, the man whose
time is fully occupied can never be miserable.”
A sea trip I was bent on, so that winter
cruise I went on;
It was beautiful —until the Heads we’d
passed.
On the boat-deck I was strolling when
the damned ship started rolling ;
At that sea so turbulent l looked,
aghast.
When my innards started turning and
1 felt an urgent yearning,
1 went green about the gills, and cursed
the boat.
Then I felt extremely dizzy, and was
afterwards kept busy :
But I proved that that psychologist’s
a goat!
BO.


THE EQUITY TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
472 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS':
STR EDWARD F. MITCHELL, K.C.M.G., K.C., Chairman.
SIR STEPHEN MORELL. K. 8.. Vice-chairman.
STR ALAN CURRIE, K. 8., M.L.G.
E. F. HERRING, Esq., K.C. ALLAN SPOWERS, Esq.
RT. HON. R. G. MENZIES, P.C., K.C., M.P.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS:
Foi Presentation to the Eighty-third Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on Thursday,
the Uth day of August, 1938.
The Directors regret to report the death on the 11th February last of Mr. C. T. Martin, who became
Manager of the Company upon the retirement of Mr. Joel Fox in 1933.
Mr. Martin gave more than 35 years of notable service to the Company, the Directors’ appreciation
of which they desire to place on record.
It will interest shareholders to know that this is the Company’s jubilee year, it having been
incorporated on the 27th March, 1888.
By order of the board,
F. R. WOOD, Manager.
“Companies Act 1928.”
BALANCE SHEET AT 30th JUNE, 1938.
Authorised Capital—
-200,000 shares of
£2/10/- each . . £500,000 0 0
Less unissued . . 50,000 0 0
£450,000 0 0
Less uncalled . . £300,000 0 0
Capital paid up in money .. .. £90,000 0 0
Mortgage of Company’s freehold and
accrued interest • • • ■ • • 31,611 11 3
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 80,000 0 0
Profit and Loss Account . . . . 26,270 2 11
£227,887 14 2
Overdrawn Trust Accounts with
Bankers, secured by the assets of
the respective Trusts (see
contra) £130,937 9
Guarantee Fund held by the
Treasurer of Victoria
Commonwealth Government £5OOO
4 per cent. 1938 Stock, at cost ..
Ileal Estate, Bourke Street property,
less amount written off ..
Cash in hand and at Bankers
Sundry Debtors for Commissions,
etc. (after providing for bad and
doubtful debts)
Fixtures, Fittings, Office Furniture,
and Chattels (after providing for
depreciation)
£lO,OOO 0
5,037 3
137,500 0
970 9
71,033 9
2,746 12
0
0
0
5
7
2
£227,887 14 2
Moneys advanced to Trust Estates
tor which assets of the Trusts
are held by the Company (see
contra) £136,937 9 5
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1938.
To Directors’ and Auditors Fees,
Salaries, Advertising, Stationery,
Office and other Expenses .. .. £36,337 11 C
To Rates and Taxes, including Federal
and State Income and Land Taxes 5',479 10 10
To .Mortgage, Interest, etc. .. 1,33 S 15 0
To Staff Provident Fund .. . . 1,499 2 0
To Balance, Net Profit for year,
carried down.. .. .. .. 14,760 3 8
£57,415 9 0
193S —Ist February.
To Interim Dividend of 6 per cent. £5,400 0 0
1938—30th June.
To Balance ..
26,276 2 11
By Commissions, Rents, Interest on
Investments, etc., after providing
for contingencies £57,415 9 0
Tl/p Certificate by Directors and the Auditors’ Report and Certificate, required by the Companies Act 1928
accompany the Official Report and Balance Sheet.
QUALCAST”
Australian made
MOTOR
MOWER.
16in. cut,
a n d it
drives as
it cuts.
Price £34/13/-
In Seaport Capital Cities.
Australian made "Qualcast” hand mowers
have captured and now hold the Aus-
tralian market by their efficiency, dura-
bility and cheapness. History is repeat-
ing itself now in regard to the Win.
“Qualcast” Australian made Motor Mower.
Write for particulars to any leading
Hardware Store or direct to the Manu-
facturers
QUALCAST (AUST.) PTY., LTD.,
Sunshine Road, West Footscray,
Melbourne, W. 12, Victoria,
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Quiet SharemarAets
There is a spirit of resignation shroud-
ing the Australian Stock Exchanges at
the moment. People who hold shares
in their own right, and who don’t have
to rely on the grace of bank or broker
in carrying their investments, are show-
ing signs of a “to-hell-with-everything”
temperament. They’ve tried this, had
a go at that, and made a few bob
out of the other; but anticipated mar-
ket rises in some shares haven’t come
to pass, while, on the other hand,, the
bottom hasn’t fallen out of everything
in spite of the everlasting talk of war
and the never-ceasing white-ant action
of taxation authorities.
July was the best month of 1938 for
most brokers. Dow-Jones influence from
the U.S.A. was responsible. But, though
that index has continued firm lately,
keeping near the highest point reached
in recent months, Australian ’Changes
have had their flutter on that, and it is
no longer a novelty or an attraction.
Speculation isn’t the sauce to invest-
ment that it was from 1934 up to 1937.
People buying shares just now belong
more to the investor class; hence in-
terest in slow-moving but remunerative
stocks like Melbourne Steam, Arthur
Cocks, Gordon and Gotch, Australasian
and Cumberland Paper, Holeproof,
Yarra Falls and Australian Drug.
There is also a pretty firm under-
current for front-liners. British Tobacco,
Henry Jones, Adelaide Steam, Huddart
Parker, Australian and Kandos Cement,
Colonial Sugar, Australian Glass, Drug
Houses and Amalgamated Wireless are
all near their recent highest points. Still,
the rather ragged nature of the market
is indicated by the weakened support for
Broken Hill Prop., Burns Philp, G. J.
Coles, Woolworths, David Jones and
most hotel shares.
Recent balance-sheet figures, starting
with 8.H.P., have been better almost
without exception. Here are some of last
week’s batch:
Profit to Ord.
Capital.
* .--Ord. Div.T'
1936- 1937- 1936- 1937-
37. 38. 37. 38.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Mick Simmons .. 9.1 9.6 6 7f
Carreras 76.6 37.3* 33.3 33:3
Olympic Tyres .. .. 25.3 26.4 f 12£ 13|
John McGrath 13.1 14. Sf 12 12
Berlei, Ltd 16.9 18 10 10
Commercial of Sydney 7.2 7.7 6J 7
Commercial of Aust. 8.1 8.9 6.7 7.1
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell .. 6.3 8 5 6
Meggitt, Ltd 12.5 13 10 10
Peters Arctic .. ..11 11 8.3 8.3
Mort’s Dock .. .. 4.2 9.8 4 6i
Equity Trustees .. 16.2 16.4 12 12
Johns and Waygood 20.5 26.5 17£ 20
Austin Distributors .. 30 32.2 f 15 15
N.S.W. Monte de Piete 8.8 9.8 8 9
Cascade Brewery ... 13.8 14 11J 12
* Ord. capital quadrupled during year,
t Capital increased during year.
Divs, for the most part are flowing out
at an increased rate, too. Stock Ex-
change activity seems to have come to
the point now where punters are well
in the minority, investors in the majority.
Overseas, world commodity prices are
trying to snatch their second wind.
Statistics appear to be against some, how-
ever, especially wheat; wool seems to
be in better shape. Rayon, wool’s latest
competitor, has taken a sharp knock
in the U.S.A. and Britain.
On Dec. 15 £71,000,000 of Common-
wealth loans will fall due for repayment
or conversion. It is a big figure, but it
may be taken for granted that a large
proportion of present holders will be
prepared still to stick to Consols as an
investment, Consols having satisfied them
in the past. Of the sum involved,
£65,000,000 carries 4 p.c., and though
this issue, allowing for interest accrued,
is now around par the market price is
no true guide as to what interest-rate will
be offered on conversion. A loan that
has nearly run its course always comes
close to the redemption price, irrespective
of what interest it carries. Holders will
probably be asked to convert at some-
thing better than the ruling rate of in-
terest on current loans, taking the term
of those loans into consideration ; perhaps
£3 15s. or £3 16s. per cent, will be offered.
To see the conversion go through
smoothly and quickly should be the aim
of everyone. It will not add to our debt
(though the half-yearly new loan may go
through about the same time), and there
should be a saving to the country in
interest.
si: sit * *
Average employment in Australian fac-
tories during 1937-38 has been estimated
at 554,000. Value added to raw materials
in process of production during the year
is put at £188,000,000, an increase of
£10,000,000 on the preceding year.
* * * *
Ords. in Australian Drug, shareholder
in D.H.A., were pointed out in B.
33/7/’3B when at 12s. 9d. They sold at
15s. last week, up 2s. 3d.
Drug Houses shares have lifted to
275., the highest quote for several
months. This page has been one of
the stock’s few supporters, its idea being
roughly, “Boots or no Boots, this chemi-
cal merger is bound to progress.” The
co. has a strong grip, on the pharmacy
trade, and at 275. the shares yield a
shade under 5 p.c. on a 6| p.c. div. basis.
The £2,439,912 of capital, big though
it is, is better supported by assets and
earning power than it was at the time
of the amalgamation nine years ago.
Finances have been showing steady im-
provement.
H* * * *
Base metals and b.-m. shares were
very quiet last week, prices keeping com-
paratively stable all round. Tin and
copper were the most interesting.
* :K * *
The Australian goldmining industry,
taken by and large, could do with less
hope and more science. There has been
an enormous number of flotations since
the price of the metal rose following Em-
pire currency devaluation, but only a
Fraction of the shows has produced more
than “specimen” gold, and a still smaller
percentage has reached the div. list. It
hasn’t been only in prospecting cos.
that speculators have often found pro-
moters’ optimism a false lure; the most
staggering thing has been the way in
which milling, sluicing and other ex-
traction plants have more often than
not failed to cough up the values in-
dicated in “engineers’ reports.” In not
just one case, but more like a hundred,
recoverable values have been much
lower than the “ore values”; a little
concentrating work on this hundred or
so cos. will bring to light a smaller num-
ber of really “nuggety” cases —cases in
which “ore reserves” and “ore at grass”
haven’t existed in the claimed quantities,
in which bore values of sluicing and
dredging areas have been utterly false
indicators of general values, or in which
“reefs” have turned out to be leaders
or isolated veins. Goldmining is a chancy
occupation at any time, but recent years
have produced far too big a crop of
instances where high values and indi-
cations of large quantities have been
published in weekly development reports,
and then shareholders have been told
that values can’t be found in ore going
through the mill —and told nothing else.
A case for the stewards, perhaps? There
are no stewards to look into mistakes in
the mining game.
$ $ $ Jfc
Australian Glass having acquired “a
very substantial interest” in the Masonite
Corp., W. J. Smith has joined the board.
The contributing ord. shares (in which
the public is interested) have just had a
2s. 6d. call made on them, payable
August 15. That will make them 17s. 6d.
paid. The market raised its quote for
the scrip to 14s. 6d. last week, up 2s. 2d.
in three days. The C.S.R. is associated
with Masonite on the marketing side.
* * * *
One of the enigmas of Melbourne
’Change, Holeproof ords. took to the
high road last Thursday, following a
firmness evident for some days; 265. 6d.
was paid for the shares, after a long
sojourn near 245. After a setback in
the earnings of Prestige, Ltd., support
for all Vic. hosiery cos. faded, but Hole-
proof seems to have been doing well
enough meantime, notwithstanding the
depressed sharemarket. Capital has been
increased during the term, but the 10
p.c. div. is likely to be maintained; an
interim is due for payment next month.
The financial year closes Dec. 31.
* * * *
Yellow Cabs’ distribution for 1937-
38 has been interim 4 p.c., final 4 p.c.,
bonus 4 p.c.—total 12 p.c., and double
that for 1936-37. Accounts come out
this week. Sesquicentenary celebrations
in Sydney are partly responsible for the
bonus. The co. works in co-partnership
with drivers, taking a penny a mile and
about 50 p.c. of the meter registration.
■ * * * ■* *.
In the 43 weeks to July 29 Cocks
Eldorado, dredging in the Ovens Valley
(on Reedy Creek), Vic., had put through
1,542,360 c.y. for 9285.50 z. gold and
158.5 tons tin, worth £103,987. Value
of recoveries has been 16.25 d. per cubic
yard so far this term (against 10.16 d.
last term, when 1,899,816 c.y. went
through at an average cost of 4.91 d.);
there is nine weeks of the financial year
still to go, accounts closing on Sept. 30.
If 40,000 c.y. a week goes through until
then, total treatment should run to
approximately the same figure as in
1936-37, and net profit may be £90,000,
as against £41,590 in the preceding term.
Water-shortage has at times held up
operations this term. The co. has already
handed out divs. of £68,750 on a paid
capital of £137,500. A good life seems
ahead.
* * * *
Olympic Tyres, Melbourne, the co.
which swimmer Frank Beaurepaire man-
ages, continues to spin money. Manu-
facturing only quick-selling profitable
lines of rubber goods, it showed £82,346
of net profit for 1937-38, compared with
in the preceding term —26.4 p.c.
on average capital, against 25.3 p.c. in
1936- Div. is 13i p.c. on the in-
creased capital, compared with \2\ p.c.
Latest sale of the shares at 475. compares
with a lowest of 41s. in June.
* * * *
Carreras, Ltd., manufacturers of
Craven “A” cigarettes and other tobacco
lines, showed a profit of £81,452 for
1937- compared with £45,130 in the
preceding term. On an ord. capital
account that was increased by £150,000
last year (half cash, half bonus), the
showing represented 37.3 p.c., after de-
ducting the prefs.’ 10 p.c. Of recent
years the co. has been remarkably suc-
cessful. This year’s ord. div. is 33 1-3
p.c. The public owns only the prefs.
* * * *
Profits of John McGrath, Ltd., Syd-
ney and Brisbane motor-distributor, rose
from £19,659 in 1936-37 to £25,831 in
1937-38. Div. charge (12 p.c.) lifted
from £lB,OOO to £21,025. Trading has
been brisk, and the co. is heavily stocked,
values on hand having lifted from
£77,579 to £295,869 in two years. At
41s. 3d., cum div. and bonus, the fully-
paid shares return 6 p.c. The co. has
about £70,000 in subsidiary and other
cos.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Broken Hill Prop, shares showed a steady
recession, notwithstanding the improved profit
exhibited for 1937-38. They finished at 595. 3d.,
to yield about £4 7s. per cent., allowing for the
div. accrued.
Yellow Express Carriers declared a div. of
5 p.c. for the year, which represents a lift of
one half of one per cent, compared with last
term. The scrip faded somewhat in price
following the announcement. Despite the 12
p.c. div., shares in Yellow Cabs dropped
slightly on wide profit-taking.
Gordon and Gotch ords. were keenly sought
after at 555.
Carlton Brewery shares returned £4 13s.
p.c. at 665. 6d. Interim div. was maintained,
at rate of 15 p.c. p.a.
Sudden activity took United Provisions
ords. up to 7s. 6d.


Winchcombe, Carson.
With a 71 p.c. div. for 1937-38
on increased capital to its credit,
shares in the Winchcombe, Carson
wool-broking concern, of Sydney
and Brisbane, return £5 ss. per cent,
at 295., allowing for the final div.
It is one of the most attractive of
pastoral stocks. Woolbroking con-
cerns, though they seem to have
future possibilities limited to the
expansion in the wool clip, offer a
fairly steady div. income, especially
in this case.
BALANCE SHEET of
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria)
AT 30th JUNE, 1938.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £5,000,000 (Divided into 300,000 Preference Shares of £lO each and 4,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10s. each).
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Issued Capital—
-211,735 Preference Shares paid in cash to £lO per share
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares paid in cash to 10s. per share
4,211,735 .
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the Bank)
Exchange Adjustment Reserve (used in the business of
Bank)
Profit and Loss Account
Liabilities, including provisions
Notes in circulation
Bills Payable and Other
Contingencies
Government Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest ..
Bearing Interest
Other Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest ..
Bearing Interest
Balances Due to Other Banks
Contingent Liabilities (as per contra in regard to obligations of Customers and
others on Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc.)
£6,594,057 16
6,188 0
152,874 12
14,852 17
1,587,678 10 4
1,371,804 16 0
£39,627,456 12 11
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New Zealand
Notes, Cash at Bankers and at Short Call in London ..
Short-dated Commonwealth Treasury Bills .. ....
British, Australian and New Zealand Government, Municipal
and Other Public Stocks and Funds and Other Deben-
tures (at or under market value) ..
Bills Receivable in London and Balance of Remittances and
Drafts in Transit
Notes and Bills of Other Banks
Balances Due from Other Banks ..
Stamps
£4,241,911 15
1,770,000 0
4,053,496 19 7
2,087,543 6
177,790 0
25,730 3
18,158 10
-£12,374,630 15 11
Bills Discounted and Other Advances (less provision for Bad or Doubtful
Debts) .. .. .. • • .. .. .. .. .. ; 24,004 p I / j
Real Estate,'consisting of Bank Premises (at cost, less .amounts written off) .. 1,196,503 15
Liabilities of Customers and Others on Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees,
etc., as per contra .. •• L 371 ’ 804
(The Balance Sheet figures are stated in Australian currency.)
£39,627,456 12 11
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries and Allowances (Head Office and 550 Branches and Agencies) .. £634,522 18
~ Rent and Other Charges .. .. .. .. •• •• 156,633 2 9
„ Net Profit for the year .. . ■ . . . . ■ . • • • • • • -6-.,383 17 3
To Reduce Bank. Premises
„ Interim Dividend at 4 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares paid
February, 1938 ..
„ Interim Dividend at 6 2-3 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares paid
February, 1938
„ Balance
By Amount of Profits, after deducting Interest Accrued on Deposits and Rebate
on Bills Current, and after making a transfer to Provisions for Contin-
gencies, out of which account an amount has been provided for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, fluctuations in investments, and other contingencies,
and after making provisions for Income, Land and other taxes .. .. £1,053,539 18 -
£1,053,539 18 2
£103,337 12 7
262,383 17 3
£365,721 9 10
£226,707 16 6
By Balance from last Year
„ Net Profit for the Year
By Balance
I Percy Frederick Graham Gordon General Manager of the Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve Fund the Exchange
Adjustment Reserve and accumulated profits are used in the business and that the accompanying Statement and Balance Sheet of the Bank is, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
true m every particular ti f the persons w ho are the directors'of'the Company at the date of the Statement: John Langley Webb, Shipowner, Melbourne; Robert
Chancellor Meares Melbourne; Achalcn Woolliscroft Palfreyman, Manufacturer, Melbourne; William HoweU Swanton, Merchant, Melbourne; Arthur Sydney Badlieu, Investor,
J . dedaration conscientio usly believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making
a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury. , _ _ , , . , , , , f
Declared at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 27th day of July, One thousand nine hundred and thnty-eight. rrmnnN
Before me—R. L. G. McCOY, P. F. G. GORDON.
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and
We, Webb Arthur" Sydney Baillieu and William Howell Swanton, of Melbourne, being Directors of The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do hereby certily
that in our opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state ot the Company s affairs.
Dated at Melbourne this 27th day of July, 1938. 0n behalf of the L WEBfi
ARTHUR S. BAILIJEU,
W. H. SWANTON.
Tndustrial prosperity depends largely
on employment. People in jobs create,
through their spending, jobs for others.
People thrown out of work, by reason
of their reduced spending, tend to throw
others out of work. This is one reason
for the “trade cycle” in which a great
number of people believe. A thing that
often starts a setback in employment
is lack of balance between costs and
prices; “passing on” increases in wages,
etc., can only be carried out so long as
people are prepared to pay prices inflated
by wages and other costs; and often
there are sections of the people which
do not participate in increased wages,
but have to bear the burden of increased
prices for things they use and consume.
Any country that depends on exports
for a large part of its income (and that
means virtually every nation in the world)
is at once made specially vulnerable by
soaring costs and internal prices ; it re-
quires only an upset in the world’s mar-
kets to reduce the price of some or all
types of commodities, and, with costs
internally high and income externally
low, exporters (in Australia’s case
primary producers) see their profit-
margins shrink and their buying-power
fade. Usually that starts price-cutting
in manufacturing industries, and the
shrinkage of spending-power spreads,
with the further aggravation of falling
employment. Such troubles might be
adjusted more swiftly than is usual ex-
cept for the personal interests involved
and the pulling and straining of sections,
such as between employer and employee.
Australia is in comparatively good shape
yet, but—rather than keep on. watching
things overseas to excess, let us take
the matter of mounting wages, costs,
“All right, I’M the mug; but Wot’s the good of moanin' over spilt milk?"
taxes and internal prices very seriously.
Most other distractions are of little im-
portance compared with these.
* * H=
Wage-cuts in the U.S.A., and hopes
of more, have been partly responsible for
the improved tone on Wall-street in re-
cent weeks. The ensuing cut in steel
prices also helped. All this, of course,
is “agin” the New Deal.
* * * #
Berleis (Sydney), the corset people,
earned just under 18 p.c. on ord. capital
in 1937-38, against 16.9 p.c. in the pre-
ceding term. Div. stays at 10 p.c. Stocks
are up, but plant is still a low figure
at £10,382.
* * * *
Working profit of Yellowdine (W.A.)
for the 12 months to May 31, 1938,
amounted to £243,177 (Aust.). Anglo-
Australian Gold holds a one-fifth in-
terest, standing in A.-A. books at £28,971.
Yellowdine since its beginning has pro-
duced £610,720 (Aust.) in gold, and has
paid £208,806 in divs.
* He :js *
Adelaide Cement has paid a 25 p.c.
div., compared with p.c. in 1936-37.
**■ * *
With the accounts just closed (July
31), Myer Emporium ords. have firmed
to 325. 6d. They return 5.5 p.c. on the
preceding year’s div. basis.
* * * *
Claude de Bernales speaking (at
Anglo-Australian Gold's meeting in Lon-
don, July 15):
We have returned to the Crown the Apex,
Wheel of Fortune and Billjim leases; the King
of Creation mine offers little hope of becom-
ing a payable proposition, and we understand
that the Beryl mine is not opening up as satis-
factorily as was anticipated. On the other hand,
we possess our interests in Yellowdine [one-
fifth share] and Comet; and your board has
acquired interest-earning convertible notes in the
Gladiator mine, a property with promising possi-
bilities and which is a subsidiary of Great
Boulder Mining and Finance. The property
should be producing by the end of this year.
In the case of Yellowdine, we have already
received in the form of dividends an amount
greater than the total capital subscribed by us,
and the Comet mine [£9200 invested —a ninth
share] has already earned a profit on ore treated
above the 30ft. level of £67,991, and machinery
to treat the sulphide ore, which has now been
proved to a depth of 170 ft. carrying high values,
is in course of erection.
I think we are entitled to congratulate our-
selves on a much improved position as compared
with the one the company occupied last year.
We have cut away the wreckage, and have two
excellent interests, Yellowdine and Comet, both
of which are profit-earning and whose develop-
ment during the past year has been strikingly
encouraging. We have £49,973 cash in hand.
The proceedings terminated “with a
cordial vote of thanks to chairman, direc-
tors and staff.”


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Gravest Menace to Peace.
[This article by Viscount Rothermere, condensed
from London “Daily Mail,” is commented on in the
panel item on this page under the heading “Czech
Jitters.”]
Of all blunders by the men who made the peace,
Czechoslovakia was the worst. The penalty for it
may easily prove to be another European war.
A new mongrel State of 15,000,000 people was
formed around a nucleus of only 7,000,000 Czechs.
If the peacemakers had been content to reward the
Czechs by giving them independence in the province
of Bohemia, where they live, there would have been
nothing to say against it.
But the Czechs had as their representative at the
Peace Conference one of the cleverest intriguers living,
Dr. Benes, now their President. He knew that, by
themselves, the Czechs could not form a nation of any
importance. He set himself to eke out their numbers
by bringing subordinate minorities of other nationali-
ties under their yoke. Using various devices he got
the frontiers of his hybrid country so drawn that they
also included 2,500,000 Slovaks, 3,500,000 Germans,
750,000 Hungarians, 500,000 Ruthenians, 100,000
Poles.
The Slovaks were tricked into this political
Noah’s Ark. Many people of that race live in the
United States. Dr. Masaryk, afterwards President of
Czechoslovakia, induced the leaders of these Ameri-
can Slovaks to sign, on May 30, 1918, a document
called the “Pittsburg Agreement.” In this the Czechs
promised that, if the former Slovak subjects of
Austria-Hungary would join with them to form a
State, they should have a Parliament of their own
and local self-government.
That pledge has never been fulfilled. The Czechs
have kept control of the country in their own hands.
The 3,500,000 Germans protested strongly against
being handed over to the Czechs, and demanded to
remain as part of Austria. Their appeal was over-
ruled. The Hungarians have never ceased to claim
to be returned to the nation from which they were
ruthlessly severed.
When the Czechs revealed their plan at the Peace
Conference, the Slovaks sent a delegation to Paris to
denounce the humbug of bringing the proposed bogus
State into existence. They addressed a memorandum
to the Allied statesmen, beginning with the words:
“We are not Czechs ; we are not Czechoslovaks ; we
are simply Slovaks, and Slovaks we wish to remain.”
They demanded a plebiscite. It was refused.
For 18 years the Czechs have had it all their own
way. They have kept the country under the heavy
hand of their police. By banning the languages of
the subject-races, by depriving their members of
opportunities for public service and employment, they
have tried to suppress their national sentiment. All
“Czechoslovaks” have to pay the same taxes, but the
country’s revenue is spent in overwhelming proportion
upon the Czechs alone.
The Czechs, who are cunning propagandists,
bamboozled British opinion by glib talk of their de-
votion to “democratic principles.” The “democratic”
nature of their methods may be judged from the fact
that when, in 1929, a Slovak leader, Professor Tuka,
called attention to the non-fulfilment of the Pitts-
burg promise of autonomy for Slovakia, a Czech
Court condemned him to 15 years in penal servitude,
where he still remains.
At last, however, one of the subject-races of
Czechoslovakia found a champion. As Germany grew
strong under Nazi rule, she began to interest herself
in the fate of her kinsmen living just across the
Czechoslovak frontier. Hope started to revive among
the dispirited victims of Czech tyranny.
The Czech Government grew alarmed. It already
had an alliance with France ; in 1935 it made a mili-
tary alliance with Soviet Russia. By doing this the
Czechs prepared their own doom. The Bolsheviks
are the natural foes of Nazi Germany. That they
should obtain a footing in a country which is thrust
like a deep wedge into the very heart of Germany
was intolerable to the German Government. From
that day retribution has been rapidly overtaking the
despotic Czechs.
_ The sudden annexation of Austria to the Reich
last March opened their eyes to the peril they have
brought upon themselves. The western end of Czecho-
slovakia, including Prague, the capital, is now bounded
on three sides by the formidable race to which the
largest of the oppressed minorities belongs. The
German jaws are closing upon Czechoslovakia.
The Czechs, in their alarm, have begun to talk of
reforms. For many weeks past their Government has
professed to be preparing a new “statute” for redress-
ing the grievances of the minorities. This is mani-
festly no more than a device for gaining time. The
Czech Government hopes that some unforeseen turn in
the international situation may provide an escape from
the penalties of its past misdeeds.
Meanwhile, business in Britain and throughout
Europe is being kept under the cloud of a grave war
danger. Czech obstinacy is helping to increase unem-
ployment and lower prices in Britain. It has done
even more than the troubles in Palestine to depress
our trade.
If the question is not settled to the complete satis-
faction of Germany by the end of September, no
astute observer of European affairs will consider Czech
independence to be worth three months’ purchase.
The Czechs have been the petty bullies of Cen-
tral Europe long enough. They have not a single
friendly neighbor. Their French and Russian allies
are far away. As for Britain, the Czech Government
will have a rude awakening if it imagines that Great
Britain will ever lift a finger to save Czechoslovakia.
Whatever the future fate of that political patchwork
may be, it is no concern of ours. If Czechoslovakia
becomes involved in war, the British nation will say
to the Prime Minister with one voice: “Keep out
of it!”
John Bull Aloft.
{Condensed from a London “Sunday Referee ’ article
by Leo Condon .)
A chorus of Dismal Jimmies inside and outside
Parliament has for months been croaking a funeral
dirge over the “corpse” of British aviation. All the
while the “corpse” has been tingling with life and
vitality.
Squadron-Leader Gillan recently flew from
Edinburgh to London in 48 minutes, at an average
speed of 408 miles an hour —faster than any land-
plane had ever gone before. It was just an ordinary
service machine carrying a full war-time load, no
special preparations had been made, the flight was
carried out in the difficult conditions of darkness.
It is not recognised as a record by the Air
Ministry because it was not made under record-
breaking conditions. The official record is held by
Germany with a speed of 376 miles an hour —twenty-
eight miles slower than the Hurricane.
Realise that the other day a British ’plane flew
from Southampton to the outskirts of London in
seven-and-a-half minutes, and you will understand
how swiftly Britain’s aircraft could strike in time of
crisis. The R.A.F. does things that no one else has
ever done before ; does them as a normal part of its
routine ; and the only people who sit up are the Tech-
nical Intelligence Departments of foreign Air
Ministries.
The other day eleven Hawker Hurricane fighters
each broke the record from Paris to London, making
the journey in fifty-one minutes. A day or two
previously the same eleven machines had broken the
record from London to Paris. They didn’t mean to
break any records. The pilots were not picked men,
the machines had normal loads. They just happened
to be going to take part in a French air display.
It was in just the same casual way that a few
days earlier four Vickers Wellesley aircraft broke the
record for a formation non-stop flight by going 4300
miles on a tour from Cranwell to Ismailia, Egypt.
These four aircraft were actually making a little
trip in preparation for another flight later in the year
when one or more of them proposes really to try to
break the long-distance record. The flight will be made
from Cranwell to Singapore, or possibly even to
Darwin in Australia, in a single hop.
We have been speaking with awe for several
months about Germany’s great air strength. People
in this country have been terrified as to what Germany
may or may not’do. The German machine that broke
the speed record was specially tuned, stripped of
excess weight, and flew only a very short distance.
It is not yet in the German Air Force. We have
better machines than that already in the hands of
R.A.F. squadrons. The order for 1000 Spitfires just
announced will put us still further ahead, for the
Spitfires are even faster than the Hurricanes. When
Lord Nuffield has completed this order we shall with
the Hurricanes have something like 2000 machines,
every one faster than any landplane has ever been
before, every one of them capable of smashing the
“record” which Germany strained so hard to achieve
with a single special machine.
When Flight-Lieut. Adam a year ago rose over
ten miles in an aeroplane to capture a height record
that still stands, he flew in the teeth of a raging gale
at half past five in the morning. At 50,000 feet, with
the temperature minus 48.9 deg. C., he cruised round
for half an hour trying to reach maximum height.
Suddenly a crack like a pistol shot sounded above
his head. He managed to screw his neck round until
he could see a corner of the roof. It had cracked
under the terrific cold. *
Adam carried on until the altimeter read 55,000
feet and he could go no higher. There was hardly
any petrol left in the engine. He shut off and glided
down through the banks of cloud, got his bearings,
and alighted exactly where he had started.
Adam made a careful report to the Air Ministry,
and went into the mess for breakfast. He had taken
an aeroplane higher than any aeroplane had ever been
before —55,000 feet. Just to allow for any inaccu-
racies in the altimeter the Air Ministry reckoned he
had gone only 53,000 feet. Still, even that beat the
previous record by a handsome margin.
Adam, burly, dark, heavy-lidded, former student
at a theological college, is still a flight-lieutenant.
He hasn’t even been given promotion to squadron-
leader. It was all part of his job. The R.A.F. is
building a tradition to perform superhuman feats as
part of the daily round.
When we have such a spirit running through the
service, when we have such men and such machines,
what have we to fear from other countries?.
Nothing in the world.
Palestine’s Terror Grows Worse.
[ln a recent single week there were over 200 Arab
and Jew casualties; two more battalions have just been
rushed from Egypt, and the 32,000-ton battle-cruiser
Repulse, carrying four seaplanes and 1181 men, has also
been added to the controlling forces, which find it more
and more difficult to keep control. The mandate is
easily John Bull’s worst nuisance job; of the articles
here' condensed the “Daily Mail” leader frankly declares
it hopeless, and the statement of the Arab case and the
Jewish case, secured from respective leaders by the
“Observer,” would seem to support that view.]
The Arab Case
The Arab case was put in this way:
For 20 years Palestine has been in a state of
turmoil and disturbance because the Mandate by
which it 1m been governed has been proved to be
unworkable.
The Mandate was framed in 1922 so as to estab-
lish in Palestine a National Home for the Jews, in a
country already inhabited and possessed. The result
was that an endless struggle has been going on between
the incomers (the Jews), trying to possess as much as
they can, and the inhabitants (the Arabs), trying to
keep what they have.
It is futile to think that a scheme of partition
would relieve the situation. The Arabs maintain that
Palestine is an Arab country and must remain so. It
is true that the Jewish people have always been
attached to Palestine through the Bible, but this must
be limited to spiritual, and not political, connections.
From the Arab point of view, the National Home
promised to the Jews in the Balfour Declaration has
been fulfilled. It was never specified that a Jewish
State was intended.
The only solution the Arabs can maintain is that
the people who are already in Palestine, Jews and
Arabs, should be the trustees of the Holy Land, and
make that country live up to its name. All Pales-
tinians, independent of race and religion, should have
equal civil and political rights ; a National Govern-
ment should be formed having all sections of the
population represented according to their proportion,
with full minority rights guaranteed.
The Jewish Case
The Jewish case was stated thus:
From the beginning of the disturbances in Pales-
tine the Jewish authorities have appealed for self-
restraint on the part of the Jewish community, despite
the terrorism and violence to which the latter was
being subjected. There were naturally some, especially
among the younger members of the community, who
felt that the answer to violence should be violence.
As a result of the recent incidents the situation has
become very tense, but in responsible Jewish quarters
it is felt that only by the continuance of the policy of
restraint can it be prevented from degenerating into
chaos.
The Government’s failure to suppress terrorism
during the past two years is naturally the subject of
considerable criticism —and not only from the Jews.
Moreover, the fact that the headquarters of the
terrorist organisation, which is still associated with
the ex-Mufti of Jerusalem, is located outside the boun-
daries of Palestine is an additional complication. The
French have not yet been induced to take really effec-
tive action to check the subversive activities being con-
ducted from Beirut and Damascus.
Apart from this the greatest need in Palestine
to-day is that there should be some clear definition
of policy. The present uncertainty adds greatly to the
tension. The Jews must feel that they are being per-
mitted to take their full share in their own defence.
Accordingly, the Jews are anxious to be associated,
to the greatest possible extent, with the authorities in
the task of defending life and property in Palestine.
But, above all, their answer to terrorism lies in con-
structive work. In it lies the surest guarantee for the
maintenance of effective discipline among the Jews,
Czech Jitters.
As these pages go to the printer Australian
dailies are playing up the Russo-Japanese clash and
Czechoslovakia is back-page news, if there is any
mention of the place at all. In fact, save for one
wild burst of extravagance, when Sydney “Sun” had
Britain, Prance and Russia as a resurrected entente
“warning Germany” and Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
had Poland, of all countries, “saving Europe” by
speaking sternly to Berlin, the Czechoslovakian
menace to peace has been, if anything, understated
in cables.
Instance the most recent of Czech scares, about
mid-July. The King was on the eve of his Villers-
Bretonneux visit at the time, and that and other
affairs took the big headlines in Australian dailies.
But in London they were jittery enough, as a few
of one day’s headlines (17/7/’3B) indicate: “Berlin
Starts a Scare. Britain Acts” (“Sunday Graphic”);
“Mobilisation Report Startles Europe. A Night of
Alarms and Denials” (“Sunday Dispatch”); “Czech
Mobilisation Mystery. Germany’s New Plans for
March on Prague. Ruthless War for 14 Days”
(“Reynolds News”); “Germany Tries to Jitter
Europe” (“Sunday Express”).
One or two of those are notorious scare rags, but
it is true enough that Czechoslovakia represents the
gravest of all present dangers to peace. Propaganda
in favor of the ruling section there has been
extremely clever, and this, with much recent trumpet-
ing also of British-French ties, plus France’s positive
commitments to the hybrid country, helps to drag
John Bull right into the mess.
Therefore another article on the jigsaw
country is given in these pages, under the heading
“The Gravest Menace to Peace.” Written by Viscount
Rotherniere, it presents the “Keep out of it!” case,
supported by information on the actual state of
things in Czechoslovakia worth bearing in mind for
when another scaring comes along, which is prac-
tically certain, or the troubles there come to a smoky
head, which is not much less probable.


REDUCE YOUR
WAIST!
TRY A GOVERNA BELT
FOR 7 DAYS AT OUR RISK
\ bulging waistline
endangers your health
and well-being. The
GOVERNA CORREC-
TIVE BELT will give
you a slim, athletic
figure. Fitted to your
individual measure
without laces, hooks,
or buttons. Supports
correctly the delicate
organs, and, by its
gentle changing pres-
sure, banishes waist-
line fgt and bulge
with every move you
make.
Try the GOVERNA
BELT AT OUR RISK
—in seven days your
waistline will be 3ins
smaller 3ins of
strain and bulge gone
ds
—or NO COST. Write for full details of
FREE TRIAL OFFER and Illustrated Folder
Mention this paper. GOVERNA BELT GO.,
Bathurst House. 209 A Castlereaeh Street.
Sydney.
3
h 1
JJ ''
W &
4408.
IF YOU’RE WANTING COMFORT.
Not just good fitting, but soft, roomy, cushionlike comfort. Try this new Abbey
Capless Boot.
When you feel the soft wallaby-skin upper mould around your foot, and your toes
spread naturally in their easy-fitting fronts, you realise what comfort really is.
An Abbey model in Black Wallaby Skin, made in full and half sizes, and also in wide
and extra-wide fittings. Price 37/6
“IF IT’S AN ABBEY SHOE IT’S A GOOD SHOE.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY.”
mm
m
THE
"TUMBA"
"PRIDE
OF THE
ROAD"
£lO/15/-
(MOUNTED).
A high-grade
Saddle with the
narrowest possible
grip and non-chafing
seat. First-class material and work-
manship throughout.
N.S.W. Rail Freight on Saddles paid
for cash with order.
WALTHER i> STEVENSON KS:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDHEY
and of the restoration of law, order and ultimately
prosperity to a sorely-tried country.
“Jar o’ Whisky”
(Condensed from London ( '‘Evening Standard. )
Scores of members of the Zionist Revisionist
organisation are being arrested in Palestine on sus-
picion of urging retaliation and provoking Arab
attacks.
The Revisionists’ leader is Vladimir Jabotinsky, a
Russian Jew. They have long been on friendly terms
with Italy, and are allowed to run a training ship at
Civita Vecchia.
Mr. Jabotinsky is a fine orator. But he can
usually only sway Jewish crowds. Once he addressed
a meeting in the House of Lords, which was not im-
pressed when he-banged the table with his fist. In the
early days of the war he served as a private in the
British Army. He later raised the Jewish regiment
which fought at Gallipoli. Soldiers used to call him
“Jar o’ Whisky.”
Britain’s Intolerable Position
(Condensed from London “Daily Mail”)
Murder and bloodshed again run riot through
the towns and villages of Palestine. Passions have
been fanned to an ever-rising pitch of hatred. The
death-roll increases day by day.
After 18 bitter years, in which this dreadfully
familiar story has been endlessly repeated, Britain
finds herself in the intolerable position of being sub-
jected to arraignment before the bar of world opinion
to account for her governance of Palestine.
What, beyond constant trouble and growing dis-
credit, is there to show? Nothing but the ever-present
problem of the incalculable effects of this plague-
spot upon Islam. Within the British Empire are
80,000,000 Moslems. The ferment aroused through-
out these vast communities is a danger to which this
country cannot remain heedless.
The prophecy of Sir Henry Wilson that “there
is disaster ahead of us in Palestine” still stands as a
warning to the British Government. British people
are entitled to ask how much longer they are to be
saddled with this onerous burden.
Year after year British lives and money have
been spent without stint in the hopeless task of main-
taining peace between the 1,000,000 Arabs and
400,000 Jews who now inhabit the country. Such is
the price of the incompatible promises made by
British statesmen to the two races in 1915 and 1917,
such the result of undertaking a mandate which should
never have been accepted.
The sooner Britain is quit of Palestine the better.
She has enough to do in building up her own security
without pouring out strength and treasure in such a
thankless cause.
“A Call to Jewish Youth”
[London “Times” Jerusalem correspondent reports
that a pamphlet is being circulated in Palestine entitled
“Colonel Wedgwood Calls Jewish Youth to Revolt,”
and embodying the extraordinary letter of which the
gist is given here. Colonel Wedgwood’s letter was dated
May 30, and was addressed from the House of Commons
to the Jewish Former Army Officers’ Association at
Tel-Aviv.f
I am afraid that mere asking for justice or asking
for my help is useless. In my experience, especially
in times of difficulty, Governments give way only to
actions. Demands backed by nothing but a sense of
justice play little part in modern history. The Czechs
would be under Nazi rule to-day if they had not
decided to fight or die. So would the Spaniards.
Arabs, or those who are troublesome, get their way
in Palestine because they act instead of petition.
I do not think reprisals in the form of murdering
innocent Arabs is morally justifiable. When ordinary
law breaks down lynch law generally takes its place.
That is better than murdering innocent people; but I
cannot advocate that, nor can I judge its necessity.
But I think you are morally entitled to arm to defend
yourselves and your outlying colonies and erect such
defences as are possible.
There remains such passive resistance * as Gandhi
put into practice in South Africa and India. Such
action needs solidarity and the will to suffer by going
to prison. I think it needs also a social boycott and
giving up normal relations with the Government. You
cannot dine and denounce.
Passive resistance takes several forms: (1) The
occupation of land and the refusal to leave except by
force of law —going to prison ; (2) refusal to pay
taxes, breaking the law —going to prison ; (3) refusing
to plead in the courts or recognise their jurisdiction-
going to prison ; (4) attending demonstrations which
have been declared illegal; (5) distribution of illegal
literature ; (6) picketing and boycotting the disloyal.
Last year some Jewish illegal immigrants were
marched in chains to Acre gaol. I think if you had
freed them on that march, even by violence, British
public opinion would have supported you and it would
never have occurred again.
Now Jews are sent to concentration camps and
gaol without trial or charge, and no protest or demon-
strations are made by 450,000 Jews in Palestine. You
expect me to protest in Parliament. I am not going
to do so any lt is for the Jews in Palestine to
stop that sort of thing. The same applies to Jews
arrested for carrying arms. The Bastille was pulled
down for less than this.
The pamphlet embodying the foregoing docu-
ment ends: —
Jewish youth, we present here a letter
from Colonel Wedgwood, the friend of Zion-
ism and an M.P. Will you awake after all
and read in this letter the pathway to revolu-
tion and success? (Signed) Young Zealots.
Interviewed on the matter by a “Times” reporter,
Colonel Wedgwood said that he was absolutely
against terrorism. He added that “in regard to the
situation in Palestine to-day he would be rather more
firm in his opinion that murdering innocent Arabs
was as much a matter of crime as the murder of inno-
cent Jews.”
Meanwhile Britain continues the thorny and
thankless job of administration of the Mandate, young
British lives continue to be lost there, the Commission
is by now back in London, the Terror in Palestine
continues to become more bitter and violent and no
solution to the problem of maintaining British rule
over riot, vendetta and rebellion is yet in sight.
Both Sides in Spain.
[The state of feeling and the military prospects on
both sides as Spain’s civil war goes doggedly on in its
third year, summarised from an article by a London
“Times” special correspondent.]
Inhabitants of Nationalist territory continue to
feed well, while in Governmental Spain great in-
equality and in general great scarcity prevail; the
vast majority of the population of the large towns go
hungry; Madrid hovers on the brink of tragedy;
starvation rations have been the order there for a
year and a half.
Although Vittoria, Burgos, Valladolid and Sara-
gossa, as well as, very occasionally, Seville and Sala-
manca, have been raided, their inhabitants have suf-
fered nothing like the blood-baths inflicted on Madrid,
Barcelona, Bilbao, Valencia, Alicante and small
towns far behind the line in Governmental terri-
tory. The balance of destruction lies overwhelmingly
on the civilians of Governmental Spain. One reason
is that the Nationalists have constantly been attacking.
There has been a noticeable check to indiscrimi-
nate bombing of large cities since the protests of Great
Britain and France. Direct advices from Valencia
and Barcelona acknowledge this. Nationalist airmen
have obviously been concentrating more on harbors,
airports and manufacturing centres.
Physical sufferings in Governmental territory
continue to be increased by spiritual deprivation, for
there are undoubtedly many people, comprising all
classes, who would like to worship openly according
to the Roman Catholic ritual. Facilities are being
given to priests to visit prisons and to enable the con-
solations of religion to reach the battlefield. Mass is
tolerated in private dwellings, and decimated com-
munities of religious folk may try to reassemble with-
out open risk of their lives. None of their property
has been restored, nor has any generosity been shown
to enable them to find opportunity to engage in the
teaching and good works which was (and in law still
is) a legitimate occupation for them. Refugee Basques
have opened a chapel in an upstairs room of one of
the buildings they occupy in Barcelona, but nowhere
in Republican territory is there yet a Catholic church
and parish in public function, so far as is known to
travellers who have paid extensive visits. Cults other
than Roman Catholic are unmolested.
In Nationalist Spain the prolonged presence of
foreign auxiliaries has begun to be resented. Italian
arrogance and Spanish pride in particular clash. The
Germans (like the Russians and other indiscriminate
helpers of many nations who flocked to Governmental
Spain) show more discretion. A Spain for Spaniards
is sighed for by both sides. While few Italians oi
Germans (except those invalided) appear to have left
Nationalist Spain, for some time past Russians have
been quietly decamping from the other side.
Military progress made during the first year of
war by the Nationalists has been singularly enhanced.
General Franco has gained new laurels. Advance has
been steady. The Generalissimo has bided his time.
His methods are slow but sure. Unchecked they will,
finally give him supremacy. Resistance, however, has
constantly stiffened. It has been overcome only at a
rising price in destruction, so that triumph, if it comes,
threatens to leave a great part of Spain in ruins.
To end the war rapidly a stroke at Catalonia is
indicated, but entails a gamble. To complete the con-
quest of Spain piecemeal may prove longer but surer.
Valencia captured, the state of Madrid becomes par-
lous. There is a large army there, most probably
over 100,000 men. They are troops trained in defence,
excellent to hold the vast entrenched camp Madrid
has become, but of unknown value and quite possibly
unequipped for operations in the field. They are
being immobilised to-day probably by a vastly inferior
force. Valencia once captured, the Nationalists might
march on down the coast to seek a junction with their
forces in Andalusia, as certain to reduce Madrid that
way as by direct attack. But Valencia has not yet
been captured.
There has been much peace talk of late; far
,more outside than inside Spain. The adversaries seem
no nearer a settlement by agreement.
There is, in sum, little to show that a victory for
Franco is imminent. For force alone to prevail months
of fighting appear to lie ahead. Those who have seen
the Army of the People forged, who know the
Basques and Catalonians, so different but equally
determined for their liberties, who have witnessed
proletarian and middle-class enthusiasm awakened in
a hundred ways by clever propaganda, are forced to
realise that there is a spirit inspiring what remains of
Republican Spain that appears indestructible.
If a place is not found for this spirit of liberty in
the New State that should arise from the ruins of war.
then the prospects are that another outbreak will
follow.
Britain’s Shipbuilding Flops.
(Condensed from a London “Daily Telegraph" article)
by Hector C. Bywater .
This year, for the first time in history, the British
shipbuilding export trade will show an adverse balance.
In 1929 Britain was building £20,000,000 worth of
tonnage for foreign customers. The corresponding
figure for 1938 is, at present, £3,500,000.
At the same time British owners have placed
with foreign yards, mostly German and Danish, con-
tracts for £5,000,000 worth of new tonnage. This
will result in an adverse balance of £1,500,000.
Not so long ago the position was completely
reversed. It was the proud boast of our shipbuilders
that they built ships for the whole world.
On the Continent very different conditions pre-
vail. German, Dutch, Danish and Italian yards are
building almost to capacity and still booking large
contracts. Lloyd’s Register returns show that about
45 per cent, of Germany's output is for foreign
owners, including British, while 94,000 tons of Italy’s
current production of 136,000 tons is for foreign
account, as is about 70 per cent, of the Swedish and
Danish output.
In official figures showing the comparative cost
of a large, high-class cargo vessel as quoted in Great
Britain on the one hand and in Germany or Denmark
on the other, the difference is so enormously in favor
of the Continental yards as to put British competition
completely out of the question.


'^4
The World's Smallest Effective
Hearing-Aid-No Cords, No Batteries.
3 0 Home' Trial Vibraphone
Z'r'toikift!" NATHAN HEARING AIDS
Suite coi£,®o Hunter St., SYDNEY
The BENGALL Hand Forged Blue Steel RAZOR
1937
Hand Forged
by craftsmen
with a Lifetime's ex-
perience in the art of
Razor forging.
Bengali Razors have Correct Heat Treatment, the
most important process in the manufacture of a Razor.
Try a BENGALL BLUE STEEL BAZOK.
Sizes, liiu, Jin., 2m., Black Handle „ 12/6
~ „ ' m Xylo. Handle 15/-
Obtai'riabJe from all 'WholesaDe and Retail Houses.
Medical.
MEDICAL PRACTICE (vacant by death) for
sale at North Qld. country town on rail. 9000
pop., elevation 1000 ft. Net av. income £lOOO.
Price £5OO. Residence also for sale. Apply
Professional Practices Sales Agency, Griffiths
House Box 1052, G.P.0., Brisbane.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Dress Suit (Stand By-Brevadale), bred
and owned in South Australia by T. S.
Ryder, registered his second successive
success in the Australian Hurdle on
Saturday and credited Ryder with 1000
guineas—the winner’s share of the £l5OO
stake was fixed, rather strangely, at
£lO5O.
When Dress Suit scored 12 months
ago he had Fullarton as jockey. This
time the mount was entrusted to Jen-
nings, who would have ridden Blackford
if the latter, a stablemate of Dress Suit,
had not injured himself while exercising
on the previous day. Fullarton was on
Pooley Bridge.
In a field of seven Dress Suit started
at 16 to I—more than twice the odds
offered against any other candidate.
Recent public form did not suggest that
he had more than a remote chance. On
June 18 he ran a poor third (at 20 to 1)
when Restford scored over the Fleming-
ton battens, but he gave a miserable dis-
play in the G.N. Hurdle and was last
all the way in a flat race at Ascot on
July 27.
Dress Suit was a horse of another
color at Caulfield. Without loitering at
any stage, he moved up into a nice
position after entering on the final cir-
cuit and took charge at the half-mile.
There Dornford, the pacemaker, had
shot his bolt and Giant Killer was pal-
pably done with.
Fine courage enabled Pooley Bridge
(7 to 2, favorite) to get within a length
of Dress Suit at the last obstacle, but
“Pooley” tired visibly in the run to the
post. Checked at several points of the
journey through the jockey endeavoring
to save ground and running into “dead
ends,” Koke King came home very
strongly to wrest second honors from
Pooley Bridge by a long neck. This Page
chose him to win, and the Mt. Gambier
horse might have done so with better
luck.
The Moondah Plate victory of The
Trump excited far more enthusiasm than
that Of Dress Suit over obstacles. This
wonderful little horse landed six races
on end last year, beginning with the
six furlongs Derrimut Handicap at
Moonee Valley. Among them were the
Toorak Handicap, the Caulfield Cup and
the Melbourne Cup.
Knee weakness —an old complaint
with the son of Manfred —caused The
Trump to be thrown out of training for
six months. If his recovery of sound-
ness proves permanent “Darcy” Eccles’s
champion will be among the spring stars
again. Manrico (10 to 1) was 10 lengths
in advance of The Trump three furlongs
from home, but as soon as Ashley Reed
gave him rein in the straight The Trump
bounded along in thrilling fashion and
scored by two lengths, with Beechwood
It lengths behind Manrico. Twelves and
tens were called about The Trump, but
11 to 2 was the best on offer when they
were lined up.
Manrico, like The Trump, is by Man-
fred. Jack Holt trains him for J. M.
Niall, the breeder. More important mem-
bers of Holt’s string, in Avenger, Nuf-
field, Young Idea and Courage, were
brought to the course and attracted ad-
miring inspection. All looked in bloom-
ing health. Injury to the sesamoid bone
of his off foreleg caused Avenger to be
withdrawn from last year’s Victoria
Derby; he appears to be O.K. now.
This Page tipped The Trump (Aurie’s
Star did not start) and split its vote for
the Crimea Trial between The Egotist
and Campaspe. The race had to be run
in two divisions. Cecil Godby didn’t
accept for The Egotist, but Horrie Leek
produced Campaspe for the second divi-
sion, which the Verbius gelding won by
a head from Fort Belvedere (sevens),
with Phildean (12 to 1) a close third.
Campaspe started at 20 to 1 and paid
£5 10s. 6d. for each ss. in the tote win
pool, while his place div. (also for 55.)
was £1 9s. 6d.
First division of the Crimea Trial was
won by Hoot Sai, a Beau Fils gelding
owned by Captain Bennett he is
skipper of a steamer trading between
Melbourne and Tasmania. Appreciably
supported at eights, Hoot Sai won with
a lot in hand from Karoo and Con
Naru. Dam of Hoot Sai claims relation-
ship with Manfred.
On a wretched day for backers Lady
Kooringal (15 to 1) ran away with the
Balaclava Stakes. Riders of other horses
were accused of execrable judgment in
allowing her to lead by 20 lengths with
only five furlongs to go. Pursuit was
hopeless then. Irving (5 to 2, favorite)
knocked up and ran last. Aided by light
imposts, Son of Aurous and Gerald, 15-
to-1 chances, filled the minor places.
Ben’s Fort (9 to 4) was the solitary
favorite to catch the judge’s eye. He
beat Kashgar by half a head in the
Steeplechasers’ Flat, and had to survive
a protest for interference.
Backed down to threes for the Morn-
ington Welter, Sun Beau finished fourth.
The winner was Ortelle’s Star (eights)
from Lautus and The K.C. Since last
spring, when placed in the Oaks, Ortelle’s
Star had disappointed Cecil Godby on
several occasions. She may go on win-
ning now.
Melbourne newspaper proprietor “S. A.
Rawdon” has won another Hunt Steeple-
chase, staged this time by the Yarra
Glen and Lilydale Club. “Rawdon”
was its M.F.H. for several seasons
until, like A. T. Creswick with the Mel-
bourne Hounds, advancing age com-
pelled abandonment of a favorite sport.
After running third to his stablemate
Deckard in a similar event at the G.N.
meetings, Niello looked a “stone cer-
tainty” for the hunters’ event. Admirers
of the Lanius gelding got 5 to 4. His
starting price was a shade shorter. Only
other candidate backed at all consider-
ably was Evasive, a half-brother (by
Peter Pan’s sire) to Liberal, a Victoria
Derby winner. Fullarton, the champion
crosscountry horseman, trains Evasive,
and turned him out in fine fettle; but
Evasive couldn’t extend Niello over the
last half-mile. Honour Badge, by
Valiant (son of Valais), might have made
the finish more interesting if he hadn’t
crashed opposite the stand in the second
circuit.
Moonee Valley punters had the un-
usual experience of iseeing three first
favorites and an equal first favorite roll
home in successive events. North Cape
started at 6 to 4 in the Trial Hurdle,
Georgeous Hussy at 5 to 2 in the Olinda
Handicap, Kagawa at fours in the Cave
Hill Handicap and Niello at 10 to 9.
North Cape, who once changed hands
at 12£ guineas, easily accounted for
Bridge of Dee and Firewood, two
12-to-l chances. He has scored three
times over the battens at the Valley in
as many weeks, and ought to shine in
better company. The field included
Stylist (Stand By-Brevadale). This
brother to Dress Suit had not sported
silk for 12 months. He gave an indif-
ferent display.
Gorgeous Hussy, the Olinda Handicap
winner, was bred by “S. A. Rawdon,”
and is by imported Parenthesis, whose
stock are useful. She has the distinction
of having won the first three-year-old
event of the new season in Victoria.
Solidly supported at fives, Mantalini
(Manfred-Stephanite) finished half a
length away, and possibly would have
bowled over the favorite but for veering
towards the inner rails at a critical stage.
Plymouth Hoe, another product of the
“Rawdon” stud, shared favoritism with
Kagawa for the Cave Hill Handicap.
These horses are owned respectively by
Newhouse and O’Brien, the Melbourne
bookmakers. Plymouth Hoe seemed un-
able to handle the heavy going. (It took
lmin. 184 sec seconds outside the
course record —to cover six furlongs.)
Kagawa, over whom O’Brien has landed
a small fortune in wagers lately, scored
gamely from Ngapuna and Fortissima.
Gerald, favorite for the Flowerfield
Handicap, ran out wide when leading,
and lost so much ground that he finished
only sixth. Morvren (sixes) gave Paren-
thesis a further stud advertisement by
reaching the judge 3 } lengths in advance
of Bunnegal, who had been last for
nearly half the journey. Gold Nugget,
the original favorite, tailed the field.
Lou Robertson’s smart apprentice Mc-
Lauchlan rode Morvren. He followed
up by capturing the Yerinberg Welter
on Pertiosa, a Beau Fils mare that Jim
Pengilly trains for Mrs. A. *M. Tuck,
wife of a master baker at Hampton.
Pertiosa receded from threes to fours
because of a late rush for Great Saint
and Grand Hero. At no stage did Great
Saint look dangerous. Pertiosa won
brilliantly from Grand Hero, who will
not always do his best, and the Rampion
gelding Ramwill.
* * * *
In the boom days of Sydney racing, J.
M. C. Forsayth had a colt called Royal
Roue with which he hoped to win the
A.J.C. Derby and other big races. Those
days were recalled when Cheery Jack
won the Maiden Handicap at Rosehill,
for Cheery Jack is raced by J. M. C.
Forsayth and was bred by his son-in-law,
Leo Falkiner. Cheery Jack is by David
from Cheerio. That mare, when put into
training to carry the Forsayth colors, was
found to be in foal, and Cheery Jack was
the consequence of the illicit manoeuvre.
He is not a bad horse, and there was no
fluke about his win on Saturday; he
easily defeated Pantheon King and Gold
Pan. He was backed from tens to sixes.
Bonnie Legion seems to be back to her
two-year-old form, which was excellent.
Ragged in appearance for a long time,
she looked trained to the minute on
Saturday, and she was backed down to
5 to 2 for the Flying Handicap. Mc-
Carten let her drop in behind the pace-
maker, Bim Boy, and then dashed her
away at the home turn. After that there
was only one in it. Micawber (12 to 1),
after meeting with interference, ran on
well in second place, ahead of Coolspell,
who is a miler, not a sprinter. Moon-
ray and Brown Baroness, fourth and
fifth respectively, were slow to leave the
barrier.
Bonnie Legion has 7st. 121 b. in the
Epsom. There is a doubt whether she
can go a mile; but that has been said of
many ex-sprinters.
Little Cooranga (7 to 1) ran away from
her opponents in the Rosehill August
Handicap. She was ridden by an appren-
tice, Davis, and that was the reason the
odds were so good—Davis had never
ridden a winner. The daughter of Dun-
ottar was second-last half a mile from
home, but she came fast in the straight
and won in convincing fashion from
Gold Spark and Gimme, with Plutus
fourth. Apparently Plutus is only a
plodder, but he can stay.
Cooranga has 7st. 41b. in the Metro-
politan. She failed badly in the Doom-
ben Cup, but there was nothing wrong
with her effort on Saturday, and she is to
be trained for the long race at Randwick.
Fearless (5 to 1) made no mistake in
the Three- and Four-year-old. Mack
Sawyer’s Constant Son horse ran past
the pacemaker, Kai Tere, commencing
the last furlong, but he lugged badly and
Kai Tere almost came down. It made
no difference to the result, but McMena-
min, the rider of Fearless, was suspended
for two months. Oration, the favorite,
finished strongly to run second. Fear-
less has 7st.' in the Epsom, and with his
pull in the weights is a likely lightweight.
Sonny Tip (8 to 1) was expertly ridden
by J. Kelly, one of William Kelso’s many
good apprentices, in the Novice. The
lad kept his mount on the rails, and got
a nice run in the straight when several
horses went wide. Officer and Baldmon
filled the places; the favorite, Tella-
weepy, missed the jump.
The Menangle-trained Speardale (7 to
4) gallops well at Rosehill. He had a
very easy win in the Parramatta Mile—
Lucky Kid and Own Folk were his near-
est attendants at the end of the journey ;
Tickle, who led for part of the last fur-
long, tired into fourth place. Sidcup was
obviously too much for his apprentice
jockey, but his fifth will be remembered.
He came home strongly after being in the
rear division.
Thanks chiefly to reduction of taxes
and admission charges, racing took a turn
for the better in Sydney last year, and
with modest pride the A.J.C. announces
a credit balance of £10,300. For the
year to July 31, 1937, there was a loss of
£9600. Last season, the club distri-
buted £89,110 in prize-money at Rand-
wick (15 days) and £15,985 at Warwick
Farm (eight days). The average was far
in excess of any proprietary concern’s
average—that is, in Sydney. In Mel-
bourne, however, seven metropolitan
clubs distributed just on £265,000, the
V.R.C. coming first with £90,050 and the
V.A.T.C. second with £68,980.
Tote receipts continue to be far better
in Melbourne than in Sydney. In'
1937-38, the V.R.C.’s turnover amounted
to £761,218, the V.A.T.C.’s to £715,536,
and Moonee Valley’s to £557,172. Rand-
wick pulled in £700,368 and Warwick
Farm £90,660 10s. Warwick Farm’s
total was exceeded in Melbourne not only
by Moonee Valley, but by Williamstown
(£220,643 155.) and Ascot (£219,669 10s.).
* * * *
McMenamin’s record for the last seven)
or eight months must be almost unique.
At the end of December he was sus-
pended for two months ; and, back in.
the saddle for another two months after
he had served his term, he was outed for
another two months. This notwithstand-
ing, he was a close second to Bartle for
pride of place on the jockeys’ list;
Bartle rode 92 winners during the season
and McMenamin 91. Now the un-
fortunate young man from the Riverina
has been suspended for another two
months. He took his previous mis-
fortunes philosophically, but this time he
avers that the too-sharp crossing for
which he was punished was an intractable
animal’s fault, not his.
* * * *
The anti-s.p. measure introduced in the;
Sydney Assembly makes hotels, boats,!
billiard saloons, public halls, theatres
and any enclosed or unenclosed land not
being a licensed racecourse “places”!
within the meaning of the Act. It strikesl
heavily at tipsters and radio-stations..
Tipsters are not allowed to cry their!
wares or radio stations to cry them, and
every sort of printed advertisement is
forbidden to the tipping gentry. Nor)
may any person, group or company!
“communicate or convey by any means
whatever, either directly or indirectly,”
any information concerning the betting
before “the actual starting time of the
last race.” Penalties for all breaches are
up to £lOO for a first offence and not
less than £lOO or more than £5OO for a
second or any subsequent offence. In
the cases of persons alleged to be tip-
sters or street bookmakers, the onus of
proof that they are not is to fall on them.
This will be objected to, and a number
of U.A.P. members threaten opposition
to the bill on other grounds. But the
barks of these persons are, as a rule, far
worse than their bites.
“Pineapple”: Queensland Soccerites
are preparing for the visit of the Indian
team. Unless further altered the tourists
will open their State programme against
Northern Downs at on
September 5. Queensland will meet the
visitors by floodlight on September 7,
and the second Test against Australia
comes off in Brisbane on September 10.
On September 13 the Indians play a
good-bye match at Ipswich.
(Continued on page 32.)
FOR CAULFIFLD.
Malakoff Stakes: Avenger; next,
Manolive.
Australian Steeplechase: Pooley
Bridge ; next, Koke King.
St. Aubin Welter: Sun Beau;
next, The K.C.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Rockdale Mile: Silver Standard
or Brown Baroness; next, Hope.
Moorefield Handicap: Televise ;
next, Sidcup. *
Flying Welter: Brown Baroness
or Lolorua ; next, Gymkhana.


Pill
M
m
§m
aa
a
x
v
\
gVSXq
•X:v.
..
A/%
<wSW
ssssss
I, •:»
$ ?$&
m
:
ft . V
Pis
J-^C
Si?
rX
, i
MS'
>i
ftiiiin
rA
lllilliivi
! h&mm
2fef»
H
tx(
{>r
X:
F
r=
W®:
«
h
y.v>
*
• « •
RECHARGING
OF BATTER IE S- NEEDS NO
ATTENTION WHATSOEVER!
For years the man in the country has wanted a radio like this—a set especially
designed for use in districts where electric power is not available—yet every bit as
convenient as an all-electric model.
Equipped with an Ever Ready AIR CELL, instead of a troublesome accumulator,
it is the nearest thing to the "city set" ever offered the country listener,
because this new type battery needs NO RECHARGING AND NO ATTENTION
WHATSOEVER! With normal use, it delivers an even flow of current for twelve
months, and THERE IS NO FALLING OFF IN POWER until the last day of its life.
Just think what this means to you if you live outside a power area. Radio that
you can rely on, that has no blank periods while accumulators are being recharged,
and that virtually runs itself. Practically every radio set manufacturer in Australia
now produces Air Cell operated models. See your local dealer NOW for a
demonstration.
ItADIOLA: Model 265. 6-valve
World Range Air Cell operated
Model 3# guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 20 gns.
Model 330. 5-valve Dual
Wave Air Cell operated Model.
Price 33 guineas.
Other Air Cell operated Models priced
from 27 guineas.
II
*** * i
WESTINGHOUSE: (Above) Model 458.
5-valve Dual Wave Air Cell operated Model.
Price 38 guineas.
Other Air Cell operated Models from 32 gns.
TASMA: (At left) Model 585. 5-valve
Dual Wave Air Cell operated Model.
p r j ce 37 guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 29 guineas.
(Prices slightly higher in W.A.)
BREVILLE: (Above) Model 111. 5-valve
Triple Wave Air Cell operated Model.
Price . 35 guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 31 guineas.
(1 guinea higher in Qld., S.A. and W.A.)
BANDMASTER: (At right) Model
458D8. 5-valve World Range Air Cell
operated Model 33 guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 20 guineas.
Other well-known makes of Air Cell operated Radio include:—Aristocrat (E.S.M.),
Batyphone, Briton, Calstan, Crammond, Croydon, Genalex, Howard, Kriesler, Lekmek, Para-
mount, Velco, Weldon, Zenith.
STROMBERG - CARLSON:
Model 780. 6-valve Dual Wave Air
celt operated Model, 38| guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 28 gns.
(Prices slightly higher in W.A.)
i .. >
h H-. $ >
llliii wM
S.T.C.: Model 523 D. 5-valve Dual
Wave Air Cell operated Model.
Price 35 guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 20 gns.
(Prices slightly higher in Q’ld.)
Cquipped toitk an pVER READY Air-Cell


INSTANT IGNITION
X
Price 5/- each.
Made in Australia under
Bosch Expert Supervision
PVHOX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
2/3/37
M.Q. and Rafferty
Richards on a Foul
Ron Richards had his weight down to
list. Bflb. for his Leichhardt (Sydney)
engagement with Syd Brown, a con-
siderably darker son of the British Em-
pire, hailing from Jamaica and tipping
the beam at list. 7|lb. Even so, Ron
looked far the bulkier of the pair, and
he began using his weight as soon as
they got going, leaning on Brown as they
closed and holding.
Inside the first half-minute Brown
showed signs of temper. Ron caught
him with a swift left to the jaw, and
Brown grimaced at him, stood beckon-
ing Richards towards him with both
tight-closed gloves. Richards leapt in
with a clean right to the jaw, defended
his body well with upright arms and well-
packed elbows against Brown’s powerful
counter-assault, and got home a nice
right uppercut before they broke. Brown
was boring in, forcing the fight, and a
few of his heavy body blows got home,
but Richards picked him off with true
punches, chiefly rights, with a nice left
hook for variety.
Those who allot points for mere
bustling would have called it Brown’s
round, but Richards was fighting coolly,
well within himself, scoring repeatedly
with fine, true punches. He won it all
the way.
Brown opened the second round with
a pretty fair right to Richards’s jaw, and
following it in landed some solid body
stuff. Then Richards made him miss by
a foot with a right, feinted and planted
his own right flush to the jaw.
A clinking punch, it shook
Brown visibly. Another right
to Brown’s jaw, two left upper-
cuts, a long right swing to
the body, and, as Brown
crouched, a vicious right
driven down from above on
to his jaw made it look like
Richards easily.
Richards himself may have
thought so, for he came out
slackly in the third and Brown
waded furiously in, forcing
him across the ring with a
fusillade of right and left
swings. Richards steadied the
onslaught with a right upper-
cut, a right cross and another
right, but Brown kept on at
him, letting them rip for the
body. This was far and away
Brown’s best round, and Richards closed
with him at the opening of the next,
stopping a fair ration of body punish-
ment in doing so, and also having his
mouth damaged, by, he said later, a
head bump, but from present scribe’s
viewpoint there looked to be a glove
on it.
Then, as Brown was again coming at
him, Richards saw the chance he might
have been coolly waiting for. His right
shot home short and true to the jaw, a
staggering punch, bettered by a peach
of a left hook and then a deadly rip with
the same hand to the body. Tough to
take it at all, Brown was rocked, and
hit out blind and low. Richards doubled
up and ref. Lacey spoke severely to
Brown. After a second or two Richards
straightened up; they touched gloves by
way of indicating no hard feelings, and
at once Brown let loose another low
punch, and then another, whereupon
Lacey, very properly, called it a foul.
A pity. It was beginning to look like
working up into a good fight, with
Richards shaping as the probable winner,
anyhow.
Irish Beats Max Richards
Since the days of Nipper Peakes, Billy
Williams, Tim Hegarty and Jack Mc-
Gowan, Melbourne has always been keen
on featherweights, and American
“fedders” have found it a second home.
The latest of the U.S.A. line is “Kid”
Irish, and against Max Richards at the
Stadium on Friday night the “Kid”
proved himself a busy and tough little
boxer.
He was always on top of his man,
and seemed to thrive on the punches
that Richards landed on him. They
were not numerous, and the Queenslander
scarcely won a round. Max was cautioned
several times by the referee —Jack Car-
roll —for not keeping ’em up, and was
disqualified in the tenth —he had struck
the “Kid” when ordered to break.
Ins and Outs
“Witherin’ Tyke”: A crooner robbed
of his yelps is a circumstance to a Lan-
cashire man who has paid down t’ brass
and got nowt i’ return. The English
Board of Control has had to ask legal
help because of the furious demands of
North Country folk for the return of
Manchester Test-match money. There
was no guarantee of a game on the
tickets, but it is claimed there was an
implied one in the opening of the gates
and in the payment of entertainment tax
by the Board of Control for an entertain-
ment that wasn’t provided.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Wooller, of Glamorgan,
is, like his captain, a Cambridge double
blue —Rugby and cricket —and a Welsh
Rugby international. He was chosen for
Wales while still a schoolboy at Rydal,
and has been one of the mainstays of
the team ever since. His name does not
“If’s no good , Bill — We'll 'ave to carry 'im .”
appear for Glamorgan in last year’s
Wisden —he went down from Cambridge
last year. He is only 26.
fje * c
Rain spoilt the Glamorgan match.
Dyson and E. Davies found the wicket
easy at first, and had 71 up before Waite
had Dyson caught by Bradman. After
lunch, on turf drying under a hot sun,
Davies, mishitting Waite, was caught by
stumper Walker for a good 58. Brierley,
caught by Barnes off Waite, reached 22,
and Waite took his fourth wicket when he
sent back D. Davies for 11 with Brown’s
help. Then skipper Turnbull jumped in
to drive White, and Walker removed
the bails when he was absent from home.
Smart was not out 8 and sundries at 11
when rain again washed out the day’s
cricket with the county score at 178 for
5 wickets.
Swansea is a first-class “stand,” as the
buskers say, and the bank holiday crowd
before lunch was a cricket record. Tak-
ings have been below those of the pre-
vious tour to date, and with only one
Test to so drv weather is urgently de-
sired from now on.
Play on the last day was not possible
until 4 p.m. Turnbull closed with 5 down
for 148, and three of our best batsmen
were out for 61 when more rain closed
the game. Bradman was stumped by
Brierly, off Clay, for 17. Hassett again
shaped well for 26. Barnes was 5 n.o.
The team then chased off to Dundee,
where a two-day match against the men
of marmalade and woolbales engaged
them, followed by a one-day show at
Glasgow. After that came another two-
day fixture against Durham, the only
second-class county to meet the tourists.
Then back to the more serious side with
Surrey at Kennington, starting August
10, and a match with Kent beginning on
Saturday, August 13, at Canterbury. A
picnic game with the Army at Aldershot
precedes the fifth Test, which opens on
August 20.
“Cymry”: Pity the Glamorgan match
was not played under decent conditions,
for the county opening batsmen at least
showed none of that fear of the Big
Bad Kangaroo which has been so evident
among their brethren of other county
teams. It is true that Bradman made
things easy for the county by omitting
O’Reilly and F.-Smith, but Waite seems
to have bowled like a tradesman, and a
knowledgable one at that. In any case
the match was a useful illustration
that the tourists have only two men
worthy to be called match-winning
bowlers—-O’Reilly and F.-Smith. And, as
the old Scotsman said when asked if his
sister was as sure of heaven as himself,
“Ah’m no that sure aboot Janet” —other-
wise Smith.
* * *
Scotland, the alleged land of rain and
mists, greeted the Australians with the
brightest, warmest weather they have
seen for some time. An interesting
feature of the match at Dundee was the
inclusion of Gibb, the Yorkshire-Cam-
bridge player who has twice been selected
for this season’s Tests. This season Gibb
has shown that he is a tough proposition,
and now that we know he is a Scottish-
Yorkshireman there is no need to go
further. Another interesting Scot is the
West Indian Hunt, who is a professional
with a Scottish club. The West Indies, the
Barbadoes especially, are full of the de-
scendants of Scots who were sent there
by Cromwell and, after the T 5 and the
’45, by the early Georges.
Perhaps the brightest item in the
cabled account of the match is that many
of the spectators wore kilts. This is
proof conclusive that they were south-
rons —probably trippers, who throng
north under the auspices of Messrs.
Cook at this season of the year. One
would be just as likely to see in Con-
naught an Irishman with knee-breeches,
a dhudeen stuck in the band of his hat
and a thundering big lump of a black-
thorn shillelagh in his fist.
When the Australians reached Dundee
they were met at the station by Barnett,
who had gone on ahead, wearing kilts.
It is understood that he is being kept
under unobtrusive observation while the
Board of Control is being communicated
with.
The weather had become cloudy
when the Australians, led by McCabe
in Bradman’s absence, won the toss
and batted. Hassett, Chipperfield, Mc-
Cormick and, of course, Barnett were
omitted. The order of batting was turned
upside down, Walker opening with Bad-
cock. Both went for 19, and then Barnes
(31), Fingleton (30) and McCabe (62)
knocked the bowling about, McCabe’s
contribution being characteristically dash-
ing. Waite (30) and White (19) helped to
take the score to 213, Symon (5-33)
and Laidlaw (3-79) bowled well on a
good pitch.
Scotland could not stomach the bowl-
ing of O’Reilly (2-3) and F.-Smith (4-21)
- they were taken off early and
managed only 88 (Gibb 26, Hunt 22).
Fingleton and Barnes blossomed out as
bowlers, the pair snaring 2-17 apiece.
• • * •
The Australian second innings realised
320, Ward (71), Fingleton (69), Waite (43),
Badcock (42) and Brown (26 n. 0.); La id-
law, 5 for 128. There was a sweep for
sixers, Ward collecting with three*
The home side made a draw of it with
8 down for 185. The visitors staged some
burlesque bowling—Badcock, for instance
—and the Scots battled doggedly. To
quote “Marmion” —adapted to the occa-
sion :
The stubborn batsmen each made good
Their dark, impenetrable wood,
Each stepping where his comrade stood
The instant that he fell.
To quote the poets again, “From scenes
like these auld Scotia’s grandeur springs.”
At Glasgow, where a one-day game
was staged, the Australians had to com-
pete with an international exhibition, and
their opponents, billed as “Gentlemen
of Scotland,” had also an international
flavor; two, Walker and Wensley, are
English professionals. Australia 143 (Mc-
Cabe 35, Barnes 49, Fingleton 28 ; Paris
3-24, Symon 3-44); Scots, etc., 82 (Gibb
15, Wensley 20; O’Reilly 7-39, White
2-18). Australia won by 68 runs.
* $ * *
“Hoo’s Yon?”: Though the Scots do
not do their blocks over cricket, they
play plenty of it, and quite well, too.
Peebles, who played in a couple of Eng-
lish Tests as a Middlesex bowler, came
out of Scotia. The cables tell us that
Tobin, who played for South Australia
and was pretty useful both with bat and
ball, is in Scotland as a pro., having
drifted there from the Lancashire League.
Tobin now bowls fast right and slow
left, freakishness he did not indulge in
in Australia. The mighty Wilfrid Rhodes,
now 60, has been playing with Perthshire
for some years.
# * * *
“Kennington”: English cricket selectors
have at last wakened to the fact that
their past policy of picking a new cap-
tain for every Test helps to defeat. Not
only has Hammond been appointed
skipper for the remaining Test, but the
ex-professional will lead the English team
in South Africa next season.
if * * *
“Aigburth”: One Australian batsman
who seems to have inherited Syd
Gregory’s capacity for playing good
cricket on a bad pitch is young Hassett,
who has done notable things on rain-
affected pitches during the tour. On
no occasion has he made a big score,
but his 26 n.o. against Glamorgan was
marked by all the certainty and con-
fidence which won the fourth Test for
Australia with that unforgettable stand
of 33 while men of greater fame were
being skittled all round him. It is too
little realised that the maker of a huge
score is not always the victory-bringer.
Barnett’s 57 in the first innings of the
Leeds game had much to do with Aus-
tralia’s success, but even that would
have been futile if Waite had not helped
Bradman to his three figures with a long
but practically runless stay at the wicket,
thus exemplifying the old adage—slightly
sub-edited—“they also serve who only
stand like Waite.”
Footbrawl
After Saturday’s V.F.L. series, Rich-
mond dropped out of the likely “four,”
which now consists of Carlton, Footscray,
Geelong and Melbourne —Geelong and
Melbourne separated only by percentages.
St. Kilda was responsible for Richmond’s
downfall, snatching a three-point surprise
win by 7-14 to 7-11. Geelong’s excellent
teamwork beat Footscray, 13-15 to
10-10. Carlton overwhelmed Fitzroy,
19-12 to 11-10. Collingwood scored
against Hawthorn, 18-15 to 12-11 ; Mel-
bourne downed South Melbourne, 14-15
to 9-16 ; and North Melbourne shocked
Essendon, 16-8 to 13-9.
In the Vic. Association’s second semi-
final the strong and well-coached Bruns-
wick side was too steady for Brighton,
although the baysiders crept up to
within a point of ’em in the third spell.
Final scores were 16-11 to 10-5.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: There was a real old-time
Melbourne football “moosh” at Victoria
Park when Collingwood was beaten at
home by Carlton. The crowd didn’t
approve of the umpire’s decisions, and
hundreds jumped the fence after the
match to discuss the matter with him.
Mounted and foot police brought him
safely to the dressing-room. One man
was run in for hitting the arbiter, but
was released with an apology on his
statement that he was a rabid Hawthorn
barracker and therefore had no reason


mT
V..v>-
•: .
|§p%^, a
ll&sy
f/ie most famous ship
in history. Nelson's
Flagship. The Victory
Nelsons flagship. The Victory, launched in<|
1765 (fifteen years after Vickers was launched)
stands for the great British "Hearts of Oak
tradition, still one of our dearest heritages.
Vickers guards its heritage too-a heritage
of unchanging strength and undiminishing
quality. You drink in the great tradition
when you make sure of Vickers.
Tickers
GIN jmm di/nc&1750
Distilled from the original recipe under licence from J. 6 J Vickers 6 Co. Ltd.. London.
HOHNER
Makers of the Famous
Auto-Valve-Harp Series of
MOUTH ORGANS
Present the NEW
AUTO-VALVE
VANPER
at all music and fancy
goods stores.
Learn in a
Few Hours!
Anyone can learn to play a Hohner——
no previous musical knowledge is
required —a few hours practice, and
you will be playing popular tunes.
• BLUE BOX -4/6
Easy to play, because of its wide air
slots. Like the Vamper, it reproduces .he
tones of the Violin.
• RED BOX . . - - - * 6/6
One octave lower in tone than jne
Vamper or Blue Box. with a beautiful
mellow tone representing the Viola.
• BROWN BOX . - - - • 7 6
Gives body to the band. Two octaves
lower than the Vamper or Blue Box, it
compares with the 'Cello or Bass.
INSTRUCTION
IS FREE!
Send 4d. in stamps to Dept. S.B.f),
Box 855 K, G.P.0., Melbourne, for
illustrated Mouth Organ Tutor and
attractive Hohner Badge Pin. Our
musical and technical expert will
be pleased to advise you on your
mouth organ problems.
1
SATISFIED!
We should say he was!
You will also be agreeably satisfied by the
smooth smoking and aromatic flavour these
Empire Tobaccos give. But more satisfying still
are the ridiculous prices at which we are able
to supply the public. These Empire-grown
tobaccos are manufactured at our own factory
and come direct to you—no middle profits.
A Briar or Cherrywood Pipe. Tobacco Pouch,
Cigarette Lighter or Holder is included with all
orders over £l. ALL LINES BOTH IN PIPE
AND CIGARETTE BLENDS.
Per lb.
. 6/3
6/3
. 6/3
. 6/3
. 6/3
. 6/9
. 6/9
• 7/3
7/9
• 8/-
• 8/.
. 8/-
10/-
10/-
11/ -
8/6
10/9
• 11/-
■ 11/-
• 8/-
■ 6/-
First crop, mild . .
All British, mild
Riverhead Gold, medium
Old Peter, medium
Cavendish, strong
Beech Nut, medium
Africa, mellow and mild
Soldiers’ Own, mild
Normandie, medium
Winning Post, medium .
Three Bells, strong
Bird’s Eye, medium
Latakia, in pipe only .
White Lodge, medium .
White Lodge, light
Barlock Flake, light and
Cahills, medium
Union Leader, medium .
Tender Leaf, medium
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only
Special Heavy Extra . .
dark
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild 7/6
“Skipper,” medium 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong . . 7/6
“Three Sailors” . . 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” . . 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 slicks . . 6/6
“P.M.” Dark Plug 6/6
Zig Zags . . . . 5 for 1/-
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
COMBINED GROWERS
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd
r* VERCIAI, ROAD. VALLEY. BRISBANE
For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO (imported). Amazing
introduction. Climbs to 20ft. on trellis,
fence, netting. BEARS THROUGHOUT THE
YEAR. Yields TWO BUSHELS large (3*in. x
2+in.) red, meaty Tomatoes per plant, AMAZ-
INGLY PRODUCTIVE. SOW NOW. Gov-
ernment tested seed (93 per cent, germination in
7 days), 2/6 packet, posted.
Exclusive Distributors for Southern Hemi-
sphere:—
N.S.W. SEED CO.. 17. v Pitt Street, Sydney.
to desire the blood of one who had offi-
dated a? f Carhon-SlHngwood clash.
ciated at a Carlton uoinngwu
et „ ■ ' . „ ' ... t L p vy es _
Cottesloe : The Y* . h
tralian footballers to Melbourne nas re
suited in a blackguard rush of g e
scouts trying o sigmThe
Melbourne clubs. Expecting this they
have had some in the past-the WA.
authorities made each playei
tract that, as a condition o g g
a free ride to Melbourne an ,
would not respond to Melbourne over-
tures lor two years. It is dou
the consideration is 8° ocl m • ■ f
any case there are a kundre y ,
getting out of such undertakings, and
Victorians know them all.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Westralian and South
Australian footballers who have been
visiting Melbourne are loud in their
astonishment at the Capuan delights in
which players and officials wallow by
Yarra’s side. In Westralia a man, if
extra good, may get tram fares, while
rarely are there more than half a dozen
officials running a club. The only people
paid are playing coaches. In Melbourne
heavy weekly payments, in addition to
“honiiQPQ ” on Ir, nlavers while anvthine
un to » 25’ officials binder the working of
X, nrinrimf clubs ' wTth iSSm
van and o 'general Thes!
Deoole are* not naid but the jobs are
rashed hv wouMbe -Politicians and
other, y pohticans and
'* * *■ *
The second Maoriland-Australia match
at Brisbane provided a big crowd with
one of the finest football spectacles seen
there foi many yea is. The visi r
goaV/a 3 S iJ3a£ £ndty
Save for a neriod in the first half,
& oai. save jor a puiioa in
the tourists showed none of the suprem-
•»cv seen in ihe Svdnev Test and during
fhe stages of the game They were
fighting fortheir lives Thescorn was
16-14 in the All-Blacks’ favor shortly
before time, when Morrison nicked a
field goal. Leaving that out, the scores
fairly represent the tenor of the play,
though in the last few minutes the Aus-
tralians were storming the All-Black
line.
The Australian forwards, a stone a
man lighter, held their own in scrums
and second-half lineouts. Stone got
plenty of the ball and Ramalli served
in sterling style, while Collins was a
star at five-eighth. Ide at centre and
Rankin at full played great football.
The big hit was Carpenter, who scored
2 tries and 2 goals, and was chaired off
the field. So good was the pack that
it has been left intact for the third Test
in Sydney on Saturday.
The Maoriland backs were not this
time given the license of earlier matches,
but Mitchell again showed himself one
of the best Australia has seen. Taylor,
at full, pulled his side out of the fire on
several occasions, and Sullivan was an-
other danger. In the pack the fair-haired
Bowman led his mates.
At Jo’burg Great Britain went down
to South Africa in the first Test of the
tour: S.A. 26, G.B. 12.
* * X *
The All-Blacks made light work of a
strong Darling Downs side at Too-
woomba, winning by 36-6 —7 tries, 3
converted, and 3 penalty goals to a try
and a penalty goal. Dick, the winger
who was left behind with measles but
has rejoined the team, played a dashing
game on the All-Black wing.
* * * *
West is back at the old address, second
on Sydney’s Rugby Union list. On Satur-
day St. George, which had ousted the
Westerners the previous week, went down
11-6 to Gordon, while West beat Uni.
23-17. Randwick, too good for Parra-
matta (13-6), holds tightly to its top
position. North scraped home, 14-10,
ahead of East, and Manly, with Kelaher
back, managed a point greater margin
over Drummoyne, 14-9.
* * * *
“Swan”: Westralian R.ll footballers
have done themselves proud of late. Not
only has a Westralian performed with
distinction for Australia against the All-
Blacks, but the State side has twice de-
feated a visiting Victorian team. It is
true the visitors were not the strongest
Victoria can put forward, but the two
victories, by 28-11 and 26-14, were con-
vincing.
“Stand Off”: The R.U. match between
N.S.W. and the Rest served to show
that N.S.W. has other players beside
Ramalli who have nothing wrong with
their football except the deadly one of
being young and “inexperienced.” Rut-
ledge and Whitehurst, the two best backs
in the match, played in G.P.S. football
before joining grade this season, and if
a hefty lad cannot pick up “experience
there he never will anywhere else. All
season Ma has beeil wailing because
she cannot muster a good centre three
and five-eighth. Rutledge showed un-
mistakably that he is a master in
either position. Whitehurst, last year at
St. Joseph’s, is a winger who caught the
public eye at the start of his first senior
season this year, but received little recog-
nition from the selectors. On Bank
Holiday he ran rings round Wansey,
whom the State selectors thought good
enough to pit against the All-Blacks,
%** r *
“Right Half”: The Australian Soccer-
ites have decided to play all their Syd-
ney matches with the Indians on the
Showground, since the churlishness of
the Rugby League barred them from
Sydney C.G. The Indians are due at
Fremantle on August 16, and open their
tour aga inst the South Australians at
Adelaide on August 20.
Nineteenth Hole
. , ,
“Marino”: When the hurly-burly of
the Australian golf championship in
Adelaide is done, Von Nida will stay
behind to link up with the South African
visitor Locke, who is due early next
month. The pair will then tour An-
traliat giving exhibitions and playing
challenge matches. They should provide
a great show.
“Amateur Pro.”: The Victorian Golf
Associatioilj whjch led the way in re .
quiring entrants for amateur. events to
sign a *eir amateur
status, nas asKea its jn.s.w. coDner to
join it in forbidding the giving of boxes
j • f n tonrnevs NSW
p* calls as prizes in tourneys, jn.s.w.
has declined on the ground that custom
has sanettfied the practice.
.. « .
Racquet and KQWI
“Cut Shot”: The Australians will find
the Japanese, whom they meet at Mont-
reai this week-end, a tougher proposition
than (he Mexicans . An encouraging
dem j s f j le g Cod showing of Schwartz,
wbo defeated Hernandez in one of the
second string of singles in three straight
§ets
A boil-over was the German defeat
of the Yugs in the European zone final.
This was largely due to the defeat of
the Yug star, Pallada, by Metaxa, who
until recently was an Austrian. The Ger-
mans will meet the winner of the Japan-
Australia tussle on or about August 17
in the U.S.A.
It is now announced that in view of
their defeat the invitation to the Yugs
to visit Australia has been cancelled.
Not very sporting.
Miscellaneous
“Ride Off”: N.S.W. polo season
reached high-water mark with the finals
of the Dudley and Hordern Cups at
Kyeemagh. The Dudley Cup was taken
by Scone Blues by 7 goals to 6. Scone
was a goal ahead when Cobbitty evened
with a free hit; an extra chukka saw
Munro seize a chance to score the win-
ning goal. The strong Assamander team
gave Town and Country 2\ goals in the
Hordern Cup decider, and won by 7
goals to 4\. The two Skenes dominated
the play throughout.
* * * =i=
“Hotham”: Victorian swimmers are
alleged to owe N.S.W. some £2O, and
have been ordered by the Australian
body to pay up within a month or be
disqualified. The feud between the two
States is an old one, and arises mostly
from the Victorian refusal to recognise
N.S.W. as the head and front of Aus-
tralian sport. More than once it has
invited overseas athletes to Australia on
its own account.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The abandonment of
the ban on “artisan” oarsmen by the
Henley authorities (B. 27/7/’3B) was fol-
lowed by an invitation from the Henley-
ites to the Australian Rowing Council to
send an Australian crew to the centenary
regatta of the club on the Thames
next June. Only once has an Australian
crew —other than in war-time, when the
restriction was lifted —been allowed to
compete at Henley. This was in 1912,
when Fitzhardinge’s eight won the Grand
Challenge Cup. An attempt by the
N.S.W. Police crew that competed at the
Berlin Olympiad was met by a “better-
not” hint, but now the horniest-handed
son of toil may drag an oar at the re-
gatta. Australia should accept, start col-
lecting the funds and assembling the
nucleus of a crew at once, as was done
long before the last Empire Games.


BRANDXUER’S
G"
*
i
PENS
Every .point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRUiDAPKB * CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
{lncorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—• .
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwfcys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K,8.E., MX.C.
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant, Colm A. So
Mnnaeer: .T. G. H. Shipway. _
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
THE
iiNiTf n
UHI I EU
iNsuRANcE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE U HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON. T. 0. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
No Crooners?
Talkie addicts need to touch wood.
They have been enjoying an extraordi-
nary paucity of crooners—too much so
for the wildest optimist to hope it could
last. Nemesis is sure to be just round
the corner, probably camouflaged as a
chef or hamburger juggler.
Meanwhile, Sydney State has “The
Bad Man of Brimstone,” good honest
tough hombres. There was a time when
any of this bunch could have been de-
pended on to drill holes in a crooner
on sight, but something has happened
to the fibre of Uncle Sam’s citizens since
then. Now, if a nasal moaner barged into
even such a place as Brimstone they’d
probably all stand about moonstruck,
and there’d be close-ups of Trigger Bill
and Black Jack registering soulfulness.
It’s taken for granted in talkies—there’s
some evidence that it isn’t altogether
exaggeration—that whenever a crooner
opens his or her mouth every person
within hearing will remain transfixed,
gaping immovable till the aural bath is
over.
Happily, no crooner comes among the
citizens of Brimstone to unman them.
As for the crime opus which is support
on this bill, crooning may have been
omitted from it on the ground that it
was trying enough already. The nature
of the crime for which a young man
has just done three years in a reformatory
when this opus opens isn’t stated, but
a cynic’s suggestion can be safely ruled
out. They don’t gaol ’em for crooning
in U.S.A.—not yet.
St. James has “Three Comrades,”
which excellent trio sing beautifully out
of tune, but, at any rate, they sing.
There’s a spot of crooning in one of
the support items, but most people will
resort to hashish in order to forget this
item as a whole, so its major line of
torture will be forgotten with it.
Lyceum, at time of writing, still has
George Formby performing in top fettle
in “I See Ice,” which, being English, is
fairly clean of crooning. Despite a recent
cable to the effect that the King had
had a crooner running loose at some
royal party, thereby shaking present pat-
riotic subject’s loyalty to the foundations,
crooning isn’t among the more outstand-
ing offences committed in English films.
There is this to be said of the English,
however —when they do croon, they excel
at it: that is to say, they do it most
abominably.
Lyceum’s support has some vocal
moanings in it, but is quite unfortunate
enough without alleging crooning among
its ingredients.
Capitol has Mickey Rooney in “The
Scrapper,” tough kid stuff, and quite pas-
sable Rooney. Capitol is not a notorious
offender in the croon line ; they go in
for hearty action stuff, staunch melo-
drama and the like ; it’s the more pre-
tentious houses turn on the bulk of yawp.
Embassy’s bill is elsewhere described ;
no croon there. This witness hasn’t seen
the Plaza’s present support, but in
“Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs,”
which continues its long run, even
Grumpy and, more remarkably, Bashful
refrain from crooning.
There is a little spot of croon in the
Regent’s “Vivacious Lady,” which lady,
the excellent Ginger Rogers, actually
makes her entry yawping according to
the very worst tradition. But thereafter
Ginger, most astonishingly, lays off the
moan and performs agreeably.
Century’s present support is another
not yet witnessed, but there would have
to be an abominable amount of croon-
ing in it to do any damage to the main
offering, “The Divorce of Lady X,” Eng-
lish light comedy in color photography
which is excellent entertainment.
All this to the good notwithstanding,
audiences would be well advised not to
throw away their earflaps or other croon-
raid precautions. This, alas! is only a
lull.
Bad News from Texas.
In regard to the foregoing, the most
foreboding of news has come along
Frithian impressions of the Tauber show at Sydney Town Hall: Vaughan Hanly,
Richard Tauber (singing one Hew to him, hence the specs., stand, etc), Percy Kahn
(at piano), and responses to an item from “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.”
from the land where, according to
films, the hardboiled and the parboiled,
the sentimentalist and the cynic, the
magnate and the street-sweeper all alike
stand gazing with calfish eyes whenever
a soft-faced torturer opens out.
In Gahd’s Own Country— and in Texas,
of all places—one W. Lee O’Daniel is
crooning his way into the Governorship!
It was a strictly business venture with
Mr. O’Daniel to begin with. Roping in
his two innocent sons —Mike, a banjo
tormentor, and Pat, a fiddle scraper—he
began to croon over the radio in the
interests of flour, one of the commodities
in which he trades. In no time he was
better known throughout Texas than the
most boosted of coast-to-coast radio stars.
He went further —recited poems about
“Mother,” written by himself. He also
crooned sentimental songs written by
himself, interspersed with the Ten Com-
mandments paraphrased by himself. In
one of his crooning perpetrations he
happened to have worked in a line to
the effect that things were goin’ all wrong
in dear old Texas, so he guessed he’d
better run for Governor. Within a week
he had received 54,000-odd letters from
worshippers of his crooning efforts
promising to vote for him.
So he became a candidate for the
Governorship of Texas, and by latest
advice to hand was an even-money
favorite for that event. He decided to
make three speeches daily, accompanied
by crooning, but he got so many encores
that he usually makes a dozen of his
radio appearances every day. His
croon numbers include such efforts —all
O’Daniel compositions—as “My Million
Dollar Smile,” “Beautiful Texas” and
“We’re in Politics Now.” He doesn't do
much speaking; his loyal supporters
don’t want to hear his politics, they
want to hear him croon.
This, it may need saying, is not a re-
view of a sentimental film, but a record
of fact. With such an inspiration Holly-
wood can be expected to renew the
lamentable offensive at any moment.
Murder at the Embassy.
The current bill at Sydney Embassy
is murder, not speaking sarcastic.
Support is a straight crime-and-sleuth
opus called “The Perfect Crime,” ex-
cellently made by the Warner people
and competently acted by a good crew
headed by Hugh Williams.
It shifts from a city office where a
clerk puts through a carefully arranged
safe-robbery and gets away on a liner.
There is no mystery about this; the
audience is in the know all the way,
with interest in how the ex-penpusher
will get on, an interest that’s heightened
by his cabin mate being a detective
and still more by his falling heavily for
goil aboard.
The plot thickens through the presence
aboard of a couple of professional bad
lots and a spot of moider, and the whole
thing is extra well put together. Also,
it doesn’t—as do 99 in any 100 crime
films —go to pieces at the finish.
Main Embassy offering also has
moider in it, but the main business is
comedy of “The Awful Truth” variety,
the film being made by the same people
who turned out that opus—Columbia.
It has Joan Blondell in what she doesn’t
often get, a part that really suits her.
She is nitwit wife of d. who gets tired
of sleuthing at a salary and tries branch-
ing out on its own, disastrously. He
having returned to his former official
job, leaving the bankrupt show to Joan,
she at once gets a client, through whom
the doings move on into a nice little
tangle of liaisons. Joan is very funny;
so is her offsider, Melvyn Douglas.
The bill is in no way outstanding, but
anyone who wants an evening’s bright
entertainment should find it just the
thing.
“Cocoanut Grove.”
A swing-band, and it soitainly deserves
to swing. It’s broke, because leader Fred
Mac Murray has socked boss on jaw, so
the gal suggests they go Hollywood, win
Cocoanut Grove competition, and be-
come famous, so they do go and do
become, and gal marries Fred and his
orphan cheild. “Chestnut Grove” would
have been a better title. Between sock
and embrace the band plays well, there’s
funny business with a rattletrap car, and
one good fallabout dance.
In support at Sydney Prince Edward is
“Prison Farm,” with a good gal and a
bad hombre in jug together. The gals,
flinging wash tubs and washing around
when they go on strike in the prison
laundry, are a cheerful sight, and the
whole thing’s pretty fair of its kind.
Tauber in Sydney.
At the Town Hall on his opening night
in Sydney Richard Tauber found waiting
for him the hearty ready-made welcome
the city confers on all visiting celebrities
—house packed from doors to organ-
pipes, and as tremendous an ovation on
the celebrity’s first appearance as at any
subsequent stage in the proceedings.
It is good policy. Unless the per-
former is one of those untouchables who
live on the icy summits —like Heifetz—
he visibly warms and expands under the
sunny beams of approbation and does his
best to deserve them—as Tauber did.
Tauber’s voice, as everyone who has
listened to his recordings knows, is clear,
powerful and warm in timbre. He excels
in the middle register, where he displays
almost baritone masculinity, and, though
there are people unkind enough to call
his high head notes falsetto, those notes
are very skilfully managed. His platform
manner is pleasant and engaging. He
has poise, his enunciation is good and he
sings easily.
Musically, he is unlike any other noted
tenor who has visited Australia, in that
he lives in three worlds, those of grand
opera (a field which he does not over-
cultivate on the concert platform), art-
songs and light opera. His lieder-singing
(on his opening night in Sydney he
roamed through half a dozen moods of
Schubert and Grieg) is delightful by
reason of its good taste and facility of
expression.
But he really enjoys himself best and
gives his audience best value for its
money in operetta-music the sort of
catchy melody the leading man sings in
the moonlit garden while wooing the
glamorous leading lady. His repertoire
in this line must be enormous, and, being
well acquainted with the requirements, he
has himself written some very clever
songs of the sort.
Assisting artist is a young Australian
violinist, Vaughan Hanly, who makes a
good impression. He has firm hands,
phrases well, and gets a good even tone
all the way from the open G to the high-
est stops of E, which is more than could
be said for some eminent visiting fiddlers
in recent years. Vern Barnett, his ac-
companist in Sydney, is all that an ac-
companist should be. Tauber, in Percy
Kahn, is also admirably suited.
At his Sydney Town Hall concert on
Saturday night the tenor did sing excerpts
from grand opera, but nothing well-
known. Korngold’s “Dead City” and
Kienzel’s “Evangelist” were the sources
of two impressive arias.
In addition there were lieder by Grieg
and Richard Strauss, a graceful “Ave


HOLD EVERYTHING -
mr. Sc/iutr--Mitsui
m
Good brushing is important
but teeth can’t really
sparkle without the right
tooth paste. End Scrub-
Hard disappointment! Get
real results by daily brush-
ing with Pepsodent con-
taining IRIUM. Irium wins
flashing natural lustre for
your teeth. Dingy film
loosens and floats away like
magic. Try it today!
RFCAUSE of irium • • •
Pepsodent gently floats film
away —instead of scraping it off.
-ThoUfUXjk' 1 -
because of irium •• • p
Pepsodent reqmres NO SOA q
...contains NO G* l * • .
pumice. oafte •
• •
recause of irium
BECAUSE Tooth
yoEr mouth feeling dean and
wholesome. !
PEPSODENT
ALONE among dentifrices CONTAl NS
THE 2/- SIZE
IS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL
1R; 11H Ml
:Z HE PEPSODENT CO - (*UST.) PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
AU 138/13 E
MADE FOR EACH OTHER
/<?•
The accuracy with w||*sGHletto
blades fit Gillette razees makes
these two together the finest
shaving system in the world.
All day long the Gillette factory concentrates upon
the scientific production of Gillette razors and
blades. Blade and razor are made side by side.
Both are made to the same fine limits of accuracy.
Both are made under the same strict supervision.
Obviously they should always be used together.
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
BLUE GILLETTES: ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED BLADES 1/6 FOR 5
Maria” composed by accompanist Kahn,
a bevy of songs from operettas of Lehar
and Zeller, the Spanish-American “Ay-
ay-ay,” and an item from “Snow White
and the Seven Dwarfs.”
Tauber employs a myriad changes of
facial expression, fluttering of hands and
shrugs of shoulders. Frith, who went
along to draw the tenor, found he hadn’t
to deal with one Tauber but a hundred.
Spanish Night.
With the frequently faint but always
persistent drumlike rhythm back of most
Spanish music, and the clack-clacking of
castanets, Nati Morales danced herself
into Melbourne favor at the King’s on
Saturday night when, with pianist Pedro
Vallribera, guitarist Angel Ferrera and
singer Carmen Martinez, she opened a
Spanish visit under the direction of
J.C.W.
The girl dancer makes the show.
There’s little of Hollywood’s synthetic
senorita about her; none of Hollywood’s
overdone Spanish languor in her dancing.
She isn’t even tall and drooping and
lazily voluptuous. Indeed, she’s short
and near-plump ; dark, vital and all the
time absorbed in the provincial folk
dances that occupied most of her 11
appearances on opening night.
Probably because they are folk dances,
there’s a living and natural vigor in most
of her interpretations. None of them
are “leggy” ; when she does the gipsy
dance of the Cordoba, she is a gipsy and
dresses accordingly in ankle-length dress
and underskirt. So, too, with the folk
dance of the Andalusian province, with
the colorful one of Cadiz, with the more
sophisticated Soleares of Seville, with the
lively dance of the old Cuban Spaniards
and the lusty, joking ones of Aragon
and Toledo. Her Fire Dance from the
ballet “L’Amour Sorcier” is an excep-
tionally fine item.
Vallribera is an accomplished pianist
• —he’s a prof, at the Barcelona Conser-
vatoire and the boyish Ferrera gets
more from his big guitar than most
people would believe possible. Carmen
Martinez sang only three pieces ; these
were pure enough tonally, but without
the inspiration that characterises the
dancing of Nati Morales.
Accompanist Turns Conductor.
Edwin McArthur, who accompanies
for Kirsten Flagstad, directed the forces
of the A.B.C. Orchestra through the final
Flagstad programme at Melb. Town
Hall.
Concert was one of the most dis-
tinguished presented in Melbourne for
a decade. McArthur is a composer of
unexpected talent. One of his composi-
tions sung by Kirsten on a previous
evening was as nice as anything in the
programme.
He left nothing to chance as a con-
ductor. Taking so little notice of the
scores that he turned several pages at
a time, he controlled every phrase of the
“Freischutz” overture of Weber, Wotan’s
“Abschied” and the “Fire Music” from
“The Valkyrie.” The “Ah Perfido” of
Beethoven and Isolde’s “Love Death”
placed him in his old position as accom-
panist to the singer, but with an orchestra
to control instead of the piano.
The second half of the programme—
Siegfried’s Rhine Journey, his death and
the Immolation scene which closes
Wagner’s “Gotterdammerung”—was the
highlight of the evening. There was no
need for any scenery with the Flagstad
on the platform. She looked the part
of the remorseful and triumphant Brunn-
hilde to perfection, her voice kept pace
gloriously with the orchestra even in its
most soaring moments and her pretty
little curtsies at the finish brought the
audience down to earth and humanity
with complete satisfaction.
Conductor and soloist formed an ideal
combination. One of their distinguishing
attributes is their absorption in what they
are doing while they are doing it, and
their spontaneous enthusiasm afterwards
for each other’s achievement. Other
combinations have affected the same in-
terest without conveying it one whit to
the audience.
Sargent Conducting.
Malcolm Sargent took a packed house
at Melb. Town Hall on Saturday On a
musical excursion as far back into the
past as Haydn’s Concerto No. 6, played
by harpsichordist Mancell Kirby and the
strings of the Symphony Orchestra, could
take it. The elegance of Mancell Kirby’s
playing, the suave bowing of the violins
and the sensitiveness of Malcolm Sargent’s
conducting provided a performance
which would possibly have completely
satisfied Papa Haydn.
The Beethoven Symphony No. 1 was
a unique experience for most of the audi-
ence, but as Sargent drew its beauties out
more in the modern manner, with all his
vitality and intensity of feeling, it went
down well. Sargent revelled in the en-
cyclopaedic charms of the Dvorak Sym-
phony No. 4, which occupied the re-
mainder of the evening.
German Art.
A lady from Delbruck, Germany, has
a strange travelling show in Adelaide,
sponsored by S.A. Society of Arts. It
contains first-class reproductions of great
paintings and modern work which is less
good.
Yet some of the modern work, in
black and white, is intriguing, especially
the weird imaginings of one Beier, who
shows Nativity and Crucifixion, each in
infinite detail, with a host of figures of
the Dickens type disposed about a strange
landscape of rocks and tunnels in the
S. H. Sime manner.
Also Richter shows the whole life of
Christ in panorama on one canvas, in
resolutely primitive style.
The show, with its clever critical lec-
tures, has attracted many, and the
National Gallery has enriched its black-
and-white section.
Eileen Pearcey’s Art.
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, hold a
mixed grill of drawings and paintings by
Eileen Pearcey.
There are pencil and chalk studies
from the nude —excellent studies ; draw-
ings of a Hindu ballet, some very
spirited; and, most importantly, some
very vigorously painted oils.
There are two excellent heads of a
lady who may be Hindu or gipsy—this
critic is no ethnologist—a nude study of
a brown lady of some other tribe and a
striking portrait of a European blonde
(No. 3), a girl in black velvet against a
cleverly-painted red and black tapestry.
These are so matured in technique and
sophisticated in conception and expres-
sion that it is difficult to credit that the
same brush produced very ordinary still-
lifes and the crude portrait “Girl in
Black” (No. 5). “Street in Fowey” and
“The Queer Little Tree” have an imag-
inative flavor, present also in many of
the ballet drawings.


Don't Suffer
with Piles
NO need to suffer the tor-
menting irritation of itching
or bleeding piles when you can
get quick relief by beginning at
once to use Doan's Ointment.
This special pile prescription is
healing and soothing. Even stub-
born cases which have resisted
other treatment quickly yield to
this preparation. Let Doan's
Ointment give you the relief you
so sorely need. Refuse all sub-
stitutes. Get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
INININIO S.NVOQ
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a lew hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne,
Book Wanted.
“The House of Dr. Edwardes,” by Francis
Beeding. ’Phone Drummoyne 103 or write N.
ANDERSEN, 30 Dening Street, D’moyne.
COMING TO ENGLAND?
ST A Y IN THE HEART OF LONDON.
Choose wisely . . . the MAPLETON ... in
the midst of theatres and shops. 100 bed-
rooms, with bathroom and ’phone. Fully
licensed restaurant open till midnight. Special
terms for Overseas visitors. Details from
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Bachflat, Lesquare, London.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The flight of the Camilla, which marks
the beginning of the three-times-a-week
air service to England, coincided with the
Queen’s birthday, so there were gay do-
ings on the harbor front. Warships
were dressed, and 21 guns boomed out
in honor of the royal lady. At Rose
Bay the new air base was officially
opened by Acting-Governor-General
Lord Huntingfield. Union Jacks and
Australia’s flag added color to the pro-
ceedings, and there was great excitement
among the assemblage when Lord Hunt-
ingfield finally cut the red, white and
blue ribbon that tethered the Camilla to
the shore. The Camilla rushed off and up,
circled over the watching thousands, and
went its way escorted by aeroplanes from
the Royal Aero Club.
There was a special mailbag aboard
the Camilla with letters for the King, for
the P.M. and for the P.M.G. Many of
the women who gazed after the flying-ship
have menfolk actively interested in fly-
ing. Mrs. Hudson Fysh, whose husband
is head of Qantas Empire Airways,
braved the wind in dyed squirrel. Mrs.
Lester Brain, whose husband is com-
mander of the Camilla, was an intent
looker-on; so was Mrs. Robert Gurney.
Mrs. Charlie Ulm was noted. The Pre-
mier and Mrs. Stevens, Mayor Nock and
his Mayoress, the E. C. Johnstons (he’s
Controller of Civil Aviation), Minister
for Defence Thorby, Postmaster-General
McLachlan, Fergus McMaster, of
Qantas, and Archbishop and Mrs. Mowll
were there to give parting blessing.
Wattle-trees that have been crowning
mountain and North Shore gardens with
a shy blooming for weeks past burst into
a great golden smile by August first. This
was their day, and they seemed anxious
to make friendly advances to all true
Australians. Trim men and grim men
wore a spray of the yellow fluffiness as
they came to their offices. The trades-
men, too, sported it. A message-boy
wore a slender plume of it in his hat.
Trees were planted by the Australian
Wattle League. On Henry Kendall’s
grave in Waverley Cemetery, it being
the anniversary of his death, school-
children placed wreaths of wattle.
Storks hovered over the ball in aid of
the Crown-street Women’s Hospital.
Some of them were enormous chaps, cap-
able of carrying quins, and they were all
made of flowers, stocks and sweet-peas
proving ideal for their outline. There
was a table-decoration competition, one
prize being offered for the most artistic
table and one for the most original.
Hospital’s secretary May Mitchell won
the latter —her effort was a ship of
flowers, its cargo baby dolls, its sailing
orders “Steer straight for Crown-street.”
Mrs. Bertie Kelly, Mrs. A. J. Gibson and
Dr. Poate were the judges. They awarded
Matron Shaw, of the hospital, the prize
for the most artistic arrangement. Mrs.
Maurice Gulson’s table wore two pyra-
mids in honor of her two sisters, who
have just returned from Egypt.
The Frederick Waley lady (she and
Dr. Muriel Mcllrath were joint treas-
urers) was one of the night’s handsome.
Her black crepe frock was lit at the
shoulder-line with her initials in
diamonds. Mrs. Robert Dixson, the
president, wore black embellished with
a spray of —well, you don’t need three
guesses ; of course it was some of the
famous garden’s orchids. With her
almond-green frock Mrs. Harold Bott,
who entertained a party of 18, wore one
of the new ostrich-feather capes. It
curled about her shoulders in tender lilac -
to-lavender fronds. Minister for Health
FitzSimons and Mrs. FitzSimons and the
mayoral Nock couple were the night’s
guests of honor.
Sydney, with the lovely line of Larry
Tibbett’s “Sylvia” still in its ear, turned
out in last week’s Antarctic blast to listen
to Tauber’s nightingale note. All the
world loves a tenor —so much lavender
and old memories and ghosts of young
romance in the music he sings. So in the
Town Hall last week the chairs were
filled with benign and prosperous elderly
gentlemen and their wives, with Middle
Age, a little smug, a little disappointed,
with crowds of youth who turned en-
chanted ears. Where did all the hearts
find themselves loitering as the Austrian
tenor sang “Wayside Rose”?
The vestibule of the Town Hall,
pleasantly warmed, was quite a meeting
place before the concert. It was a good
place, too, to see the trailing satins and
velvets, the white fur wraps (almost a
procession of these) of the women who
were making for the best seats in the
house. The famed chandelier twinkled
merrily. It caught the green and gold
on Mrs. Robert Dixson’s black satins,
the flowered ivory velvets of Mrs.
Clement Chapman’s sweeping coat, the
silver design worked on Mrs. W. J.
Cleary’s Madonna-blue frock. A tall
Gemmell-Smith girl in a floor-length,
fitted and slightly-flaking parchment coat
was attractive, and Jessica Chard was
picturesque in hyacinth-pink caped in
ermine. Mrs. Tom Vincent mingled blue-
greens and cherry in her noteworthy out-
fit ; Mrs. Sep Levy was true to black. She
wore it in velvet allied to pink camellias.
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar, Mrs. Wallace
Horsley, Noreen Dangar and a sprinkling
of Osbornes were there. Florence
Bennett’s jade-green velvet coat with its
shirred sleeves and Mrs. F. J. Davy’s
blues and silvers made pleasant harmony.
Lucille Jansen was all black velvet
and silver fox.
But it was Mrs. Tauber’s dress that
held every eye. This had been flown to
Sydney in time for the concert. It was of
rose-white marquisette, its full skirts pat-
terned in moonlight-blue paillettes. With
this she wore a cape of white Arctic fox,
white flowers in her piled-up red curls
and a high-voltage sapphire ring. In the
interval she stood in the vestibule, sur-
rounded by men of the A.B.C. The tall-
est of them confided to this Letter that
Diana did not like being looked at. Hus-
band Richard, by the way, wore a
sparkler or two on his fingers.
Pretty Cecily Wheelihan’s skates are
having time off. Their owner is busy
organising a bridge party for the benefit
of the Mater Misericordiae Hospital,
North Sydney. This is one of the many
causes which have Cecily’s active in-
terest in the intervals of her golf and
tennis and winter sports. The bridge
party is dated for August 18 at Bernly,
Darlinghurst. Photograph from Mont-
gomery Dunn.
Switzerland celebrated its National
Day in Sydney by a late-afternoon party.
This was in Cahill’s in Pitt-street, and
the stairway was hung with the emblem
of the land of William Tell. This is a
white cross on a red background; and
very handsome it looked worked in white
hyacinths on a field of red sweet-peas
on the official table. It occurred at inter-
vals about the room, and seemed to glow
very resolute and undaunted when
Consul-General Hedinger made his
speech on the aims of the Motherland.
This was the 647th anniversary of the
founding of their Constitution, and over
200 members of the Swiss community
came along to commemorate the fact.
Gay Swiss airs were played while cock-
tails and savories with a national flavor
were handed around. Mrs. Hedinger,
smart in black, stood with her husband
at the head of the stairs to receive the
guests. Among them were the E. J. Ker-
stings, newly arrived in Sydney, the
Alfred Wunderlichs and Mrs. Henri.
The George Cheekes said good-bye to
Sydney friends in Oswald Cheeke’s flat
last week. The two are now on their
way to Vancouver, where their family
awaits them. The party that started at
tea-time went on to cocktails. Mrs.
Cheeke wore a bright lame blouse with
her black woollen suit, and her clear
Canadian complexion seemed to have put
on an extra sparkle with the cold day.
Ella Shields was among the many guests ;
so were Hera Roberts, who is a cousin,
and Olga McLean, of Brisbane. Later
the party finished up at the wrestling
match at the Stadium.
On August 18 Sydney will have for
the first time the chance of seeing Hindu
art in ballet—at the Con. Some years ago
this became a London craze, though
there, of course, the dancers were
Hindu. Sydney will see these move-
ments expressed by its own girls. The
girl in this photograph, Joan Spiller
Brandon, will be one of the leads in
the new ballet, “The Blue God.” In this
a number of the dances of North and
of South India will be shown. When
Louise Lightfoot, of the Lightfoot-
Burlakov ballet school, went abroad she
spent a good deal of time in India taking
lessons from an Indian dancer in the
North and from an equally celebrated
one of the South.
The dance of the North is flowing and
undulating, but that of the South has
correct stylised movements. Every move-
ment of the hands and of the fingers has
a definite meaning. There is as wide
a difference between the two as between
the dancing of ancient Greece and
Egypt. The settings, music and costumes
are authentic. One of the props, is a
realistic cobra in brass. Much of the
scenery comes from the brush and brain
of Colin Mclntyre)
Students of Sancta Sophia remembered
that Wattle Day was just around the
corner when they gave their yearly at-
home. The golden emblem of Australia
was repeated throughout the decorations
—very jocund it looked in the supper-
room and the rooms where the dancers
kept busily at it. The night was one of
Sydney’s coldest, and there were no sit-
down strikes. Nearly 300 guests were
greeted by the girls in residence. Senior
student Helen MacDonald, who helped
to receive the guests, had the support of
Mrs. Walter Burfitt and Miss Kate Egan.
Helen’s bronze taffetas shone warmly in
the bright lights; so did the bright, con-
fetti-like coloring in Mrs. Burfitt’s frock-
ing. Dame Constance D’Arcy, the Tas-
man Lovells, principal of St. Andrew’s
the Reverend Cumming-Thom and his
wife, Camilla Wedgwood and Mrs. Leon
Lyons were in the official group. Beatrice
McGirr wore delphinium-blue mar-
quisette with happy effect.
To-night in Grace Brothers’ auditorium
Stephanie Edye will give a dance recital
in aid of the Far West Children’s Health
scheme. Stephanie has been giving re-
citals in this cause since she was about
nine years of age. She is tall and dark
and specialises in Spanish dances. These
she studied with the flashing-eyed Brunel-
leschi in London. She has a costume
wardrobe that might easily be envied by
any actress. In the designing she has
had the advice of Brunelleschi and of
Thadee Slavinsky, of the De Basil com-
pany. Her mother, Mrs. Ben Edye, has
made some of them, notably a Russian
costume embroidered with 16,000 pearls.
Much good lace goes to the making of
these costumes. The many-flounced ones
of Castile and Madrid are worn with
mantillas. One mantilla which will be
worn by Stephanie to-night has been lent
by the wife of Spain’s Consul-General
Baeza.
When Mrs. Elink Schuurman flew off
to Java the other day she took with her
the copy of the French play in which she
will appear on September 2. She returns
to-day, and it is expected she will be
letter-perfect for the first rehearsal. Mrs.
Bertie Kelly’s experienced hand is mixing
the ingredients of this evening, which
will be French both in its drama and its
music. Two one-act plays, given by a
French cast, will be surrounded by trios
and duets for violin, ’cello and piano.
Bertie Kelly, whose knowledge of period
and chamber music is very sound, is
arranging the programme, and will him-
self be one of the players. Gladstone
Bell, Mary Charlton and Frazer Coss will
be others on the brilliant bill. France’s
Consul-General Tremoulet has given his
patronage.
Last Saturday was a red-letter day at
Riverview. It marked a football victory
over “Shore,” and in the evening the
old school saw its first dance. This was
held in the school' hall —all giddy with
bunting from the 30th Batt. Drill Hall.
Carloads of sisters and sisters’ friends
were driven up by fond parents, and
altogether the school pavilion fund
benefits by about £5O.
Thanks to E. W. Wills, of the Elliotts-
Australian Drug Co., the eyes and
mouths of the Westmead orphans were
stretched almost beyond endurance. He
left them speechless while demonstrat-
ing the extraordinary effect liquefied air
has on various articles, and they were fur-
ther amazed to find that this effect is
only temporary. In an atmosphere of
awe the boys watched an ordinary egg
treated for a few seconds and then used
to hammer a nail into wood, while a
sausage became as hard and as brittle
as cast-iron. Unlike the egg, which took
kindly to the test and returned to its
normal state, quite edible, the sausage
was “not at all nice about it” and turned
sour. A rose stiffened ere crumpling to
fragments, yet, strange to relate, retained
its fragrance. Rubber tubing hardened ;
a rubber sponge almost evaporated with
fright; while common boot leather re-
mained supremely unaffected.
Mrs. Tauber during the week has worn
different furs at each of her husband's
concerts —furs that cause the eye of the
ordinary woman to blink. One night
Arctic fox was snowy about her
shoulders. Ermine with puffed sleeves
of beige fox warmed her on another.
Waist-length silver fox kept the breeze
off on Saturday night. A cap of blue
sequins ornamented her head. Joan and
Ruth Cleary were at the concert with
mother; Mrs. Ernest Lashmar wore coat
and frock in her favorite bronze tones.
Baroness Von Oertzen’s white chiffon
frock was all narrow pleats. Mrs. W.
Parsons wore a pale pink ostrich cape
with her ruby velvets. Violinist Vaughan
Hanly’s Lorna McKean was among the
applauders ; so were Mrs. H. Bott and
Thelma Houston. Miss Agnes William-
son was one of the handsomely furred.
Dr. David Knox made his first public
appearance since his car accident. With
him was Mrs. David, all in black velvet.
A pretty little Spanish dancer, Nati
Morales, without a word of the English,
appeared in Sydney last week. She
arrived with members of a Spanish com-
pany complete with singers and guitar
players. Nati is something out of the
box and does all the national dances
of the most distressful country, as well
as the classic. Some of the company
have been in Spain quite recently;
others, Carmen Martinez, for example,
have not seen it for almost a year. But
though the ruins of that fair land are
great they shrink by comparison with
the ruins of French syntax left lying
about when guests (this Letter among
them) at a tea-party in the strangers'
honor tried to bridge silence with the
Gallic tongue. Nati and her com-
panions passed on to Melbourne. But
they return soon to delight Sydney.


£
is
s\\V
'7 m
w
w/,
l\v
\
Wtfr^sS
I
I
wm
m
An
Mill
I* V v \ ~
vv'Ayu
> i ik
X.
1 1 r .ii'i i ""i mi,
”, K ■
M^W v Vl\ W\\ 1 Mi ll ,l ■
I 1 | ‘ M
{. r*
• '.* » 11 '
!J V ' ■ 7
.*• ' \’
SON 'RIPENED OATS
BRING HEALTH TO YOUR GLASS /
■yOOHEYS Oatmeal Stout is brewed
* from the rich, ripe oats of our own
sunny country — brewed for Australian
conditions and climate. It is the national
tonic food.
In Quarts, Pints, SPOTS.
II "
1^35
m
i < i
! • i!i»
ll ' ‘ 1 . U
TOOHEYS
OATMEAL STOUT
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD
AGENTS:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, PHilp & Co., Ltd.,
Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND —Dalgety & Co.,
Ltd., Rockhampton.
BREWERY, SYDNEY.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Dalgety & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA —Milne & Co.,
Perth.
TASMANIA —Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.
HERES TOEE


ORANGE JUICE
HEALTH TALK No. 2.
That Tired Feeling.
The earliest symptoms of scurvy, the
wasting disease, are tiredness and lassi-
tude. The average diet that includes fruit
and vegetables may contain enough vita-
min C to check the development of active
scurvy, but not enough to prevent that
vague out-of-sorts feeling which is often
a symptom of mild or incipient scurvy,
due to insufficient vitamin C.
Tests in the U.S.A. and Great Britain
have shown that a daily glass of orange
juice supplied the vitamin C deficiency that
exists in the ordinary diet and gave the
patients an increased capacity for work
and play without fatigue.
Orange juice is the richest and the most
convenient source of vitamin C. . By
modern methods of analysis orange juice
is shown to contain from two to three
times as much vitamin C as other fruits,
volume for volume. It, therefore, supplies
the vitamin C requirement without adding
unnecessarily to the bulk of the food con-
sumed.
A daily glass of fresh orange juice will
give renewed vigor to the jaded system.
New Recipe Books, Post Free, From
Victorian Central Citrus Association,
422 Collins St., Melb. Central, 8895.
Legal Notice.
RE ANNIE MARION COOKE deceased and
re ROBERT TEMPLE THOMSON de-
PURSUANT to directions given by Mr. Jus-
tice Morton in actions in the Chancery Division
of the High Court of Justice re ANNIE
MARION COOKE deceased Darby v. Thom-
son 1938 C. 1767 and re ROBERT TEMPLE
THOMSON deceased Treffry v. Thomson
1938 T. 886 REGINALD JOHN TEMPLE
THOMSON or any of his issue are to send by
post prepaid so as to reach Harry Joseph
Charles of 12 Russell Square London W.C.I
Solicitor on or before the 15th November 1938
their full Christian and surnames addresses and
descriptions or in default thereof they will be
excluded from participating in the property the
subject of the above actions.
Friday the 18th day of November 1938 at
2.30 o’clock in the afternoon is the time
appointed for adjudication upon the claims be-
fore Master Newman at the Chambers of the
Judge Room 162 Royal Courts of Justice Strand
London.
Note. —The said Reginald John Temple
Thomson is stated to have been married at
Sydney, Australia, in 1918 to Doris Thomas.
He was last heard of in South Africa in 1930.
DATED this 20th day of July, 1938.
TREVOR C. NEWMAN, Master.
FREEMAN & COOKE, Solicitors for the
respective Plaintiffs, 12 Russell Square, London.
W.C.I.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1105 of 1938.
BETWEEN GWENETH DOREEN SHUTE
(formerly Gweneth Doreen Smith) Peti-
tioner
And IRWIN RUSSELL SHUTE Respon-
dent.
TO IRWIN RUSSELL SHUTE formerly of
Douglas Street Ryde Shearer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GWENETH
DOREEN SHUTE has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the ground of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Twenty-sixth day of
October 1938 and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had an application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Second day of August, a.d.
1938.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
W. J. ENRIGHT, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
467 High Street, West Maitland: whose Sydney
Agents are MESSIEURS TAYLOR & KEAR-
NEY, of City Mutual Building, Hunter and
Bligh Streets, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1172 of 1938.
BETWEEN OLIVE VICTORIA WATSON
Petitioner
And WILLIAM MACKENZIE WATSON
Respondent.
TO WILLIAM MACKENZIE WATSON
formerly of Wyong in the State of New
South Wales but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said OLIVE VIC-
TORIA WATSON has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
praying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of your desertion of her for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before the
Third day of November One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-eight and in the event of
your not so doing within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of August One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
S. G. SOMMERS & STEWART, Solicitors,
197 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Sitting on top of a Swiss alp with snow
in your eyes and icicles in your hair
couldn’t be much colder than Earl’s
Court during the Swiss Ball. Outside the
wind blew and the rain came down in
sheets, which fact affected the attend-
ance slightly but not enough to deflate
the enthusiasm of choir and yodellers.
The Swiss Choir, in national costume
with embroideries of edelweiss, held the
stage at intervals upstairs and down be-
low just after supper, where nutriment
ran to wines, beer, half-a-dozen kinds of
Swiss sausages and salads flavored with
garlic. The dance was in celebration of
the Swiss national day and the 647th
anniversary of the foundation of the Swiss
Confederation. Special guests were the
Consul for Switzerland and Mrs. J. A.
Pietzcker.
A charity group that works so quietly
that it is scarcely ever -heard of is the
Royal Melbourne Hospital Almoner
Auxiliary, which had its fourteenth
annual recording last week. Among
speakers was Dr. Newman Morris, who
ventured to hope that some day the hos-
pital would have, instead of its present
staff of four almoners, the 20 or so
which it really needs. In his address
Dr. Kaye Scott, of the deep therapy
department, recalled the beginning of
the service in 1924, when a social bureau
was formed as a result of a nurse going
out to their homes to see why patients
had not come in for treatment. He
remembered, too, the auxiliary’s first
ambulance, an ancient Ford which rattled
its old bones over 120,000 miles carry-
ing patients between their homes and the
hospital. Those were the days when the
R.A.C.V. was also helping with trans-
port, but before there was any hope of
purchasing the present ambulance at a
cost of £527. The debt on this vehicle
has been paid off, and it has more than
justified its existence by making 1216
trips during last year.
At the meeting Jocelyn Hyslop, of the
Board of Social Studies, was in the chair.
In her address she mentioned the grow-
ing concern for social welfare and the
number of girls anxious to study and be-
come qualified in social work. But train-
ing facilities are so poor at present that
not enough of these recruits can be en-
rolled as students.
Helen Speeding scored trumps with
her plucky effort in giving a concert —
plucky on account of all the
musical celebrities we have had and are
having, and also on account of the frosty
nights which make leaving warm fires
a heroic subjugation of the spirit. Helen
played in peacock-green chiffon and kept
her fingers flexible offstage at the gas-
fire in the Moderator’s room of the
Assembly Hall. Her baskets of flowers
and fruit and boxes of chocolates gave
tc the platform, already decked with
early fruit blossom (and not the cus-
tomary aspidistras) a cheerful air of
spring. The hall, too, was warm enough
for comfort with its steam heaters and
the size of its audience. Among the
listeners were Mrs. Victor Wischer, Mrs.
J. M. Pittendrigh and her sister Miss
Kennedy, Mrs. B. C, Lewis wearing
ospreys as a lightsome touch for her black
coat, and daughter Margaret in red, feel-
ing fine and dandy after a ski-ing holiday
and only a few bruises at Buffalo. Mary
Baillieu wore a Parma-violet frock under
her black wrap. The Milner Arnolds
were there; also Arnold Shore, Peggy
Campbell in black velvet, Mrs. John
Shaw, Mrs. H. McL. Duigan, Mrs. D. D.
Jamieson and Betty Tweddle, wrapped
from neck to hem in a fur coat.
Cann’s got in early with their fashion
parade for young women and business
girls, who, judging by what they saw,
will be spending the summer with an iron
in one hand and a damp cloth in the
other, for so many of the new skirts are
pleated all the way round. Those that
are flared are wide enough to make last
year’s skirts afraid to be seen in such
company. A petrol-blue woollen coat
over a wine-red figured dress and a lilac
linen bolero suit with wide sash of tur-
quoise and damson-red showed how in-
teresting such color combinations can
be. Clothes are getting more and more
feminine, and girls who can’t afford the
expensive dressing of Edwardian heads
can indulge their desire for allure with
rustling taffeta petticoats and the hems
of their evening frocks, where bands of
velvet ribbon are all in place and wider
bands of stiffened horsehair (dyed and
otherwise disguised) give an old-world
air of being really dressed up to frocks
of net, gauze or taffeta.
In the Jack Cato photograph is Mrs.
J. G. Whitaker, one of the ticket secre-
taries for the Automobile Club Ball to-
morrow night. Dr. Whitaker has also been
a help in ticket propaganda, for he’s an
honorary at the Children’s Hospital, and
the ball is in aid of a kindred cause, the
orthopaedic section of the Children’s Hos-
pital at Frankston.
The operetta “Crescent Moon,” which
rises at the Princess on Monday week, is
(though not intentionally) propaganda
for a policy of appeasement. The story
deals with carnival and rejoicing at a
world peace five years hence, and the
scene is laid in Geneva. The large cast,
90 per cent, of which is amateur, is being
gradually worked into shape, a difficult
job, for the amateurs can’t get down to
the habit of punctuality for rehearsals.
An untiring member of the committee is
Dr. Deborah Buller Murphy, who has put
Lordello at the disposal of the cast for
meetings, costume fittings and so on.
There, at an afternoon-tea party last
week, Mona Nugent was seen in the
black velvet gown in which soprano Con-
cita goes as Anne Boleyn to a fancy-
dress ball. Elinor Willis changed into one
of the frocks that the ballet will wear, of
pleated white satin with lilac sash and
frilly little pants. (It was Elinor’s big
day, for that evening her parents, Mr.
and Mrs. H. A. Willis, gave a dance for
her at No. 9 Darling-street.) The girls
are either having their costumes made,
hiring them, making them themselves, like
Peggy Churton, who is clever that way,
or borrowing them. Vaire Wilkinson is
wearing Fay Compton’s white “Victoria
Regina” gown. Peggy Tronson, though
only a young thing, has kept her eyes
open, and has a feeling and imagination
about clothes. Judging by what has been
seen so far she has made a good job of
designing the costumes for the show.
Among others in the cast who were
present at the party (most of them in
the ballet, chorus or gallery of pictures
by Old Masters) was Paddy Wilkinson
in a knockout of an old-and-new hat, a
street hat, not a “Crescent Moon” one. It
was quaint and old-world in a wide-
brimmed bonnet shape and the Ed-
wardian veil, and up-to-to-day in the
fact that it was of felt in bright London
tan, trimmed with an enormous bow of
emerald-green satin ribbon. Virginia
Synnot’s headpiece was a plot of flowers,
Penelope Little’s a severe roll of hair
and a sailor-boy beret, Bunty Govett’s
an Edwardian coiffure upon which she
hadn't placed a hat all the week. The
Japanese ladies and their wooden pillows
haven’t anything on a modern maid and
her nest of snail curls.
Nati Morales, the Spanish dancer,
small, slim, dark, aged 26 and for the
present unmarried (according to a
promise made to her manager), who with
her co. made her Australian debut at the
King’s on Saturday night, is no linguist.
She speaks no English and only a few
words of French; her greeting is a smile
and her thanks or farewell “enchantee.”
Guitarist Senor Angel Ferrara can say
“How do you do?” “Good-bye” and
“I love you.” Singer Carmen Martinez
knows no English; neither does the
pianist Pedro Vallribera (known as “The
Professor”). It is the Russian manager,
Alexander Levitoff, who is the interpreter
for the travellers, but as his Spanish is
limited conversation is never general.
Thus the language difficulty is an easy
let-out for the Spaniards refusing to dis-
cuss the political situation in Spain. When
Levitoff is questioned as to their sym-
pathies his reply is a tactful parry: “They
are artists, they live for their work—poli-
tics?” and he shrugs his shoulders.
Senorita Morales and “the Professor,”
who used to be on the staff of the Bar-
celona Conservatorium, left Spain eight
months ago, but so far are reticent about
the manner of their exodus.
A Broothorn camera is responsible for
this portrait of Mrs. T. J. Ryan, a J.P.
many times over. She has been sworn in
to sit on the Bench for Victorian baili-
wicks, for Q’land, W.A., Tas. and the
F.C.T., and this week will make a similar
pledge in respect to Papua. In no place
except Victoria has she, up to date, un-
dertaken Bench responsibilities ; her work
is rather the signing and witnessing of
documents. Even the policemen on point
duty know her, and recently an officer at
a busy intersection directed an inquirer
with a pocketful of documents to “the
lady J.P. at the Queensland Tourist
Bureau.” As accommodating as the value
of Mrs. Ryan’s signature is her reaction
to climate —she’s one of the few lucky
people who feel their best no matter
what the temperature. She loves the
Barrier Reef in summer, and now, when
everybody’s teeth are chattering with
cold, she has only words of praise for
“these invigorating frosty mornings.”
A woman trumpeter is something new
to Australia, and something in that line
as well worth knowing as hearing has
arrived in the person of Grace Adams
East, who goes to Brisbane this week to
fill a broadcasting engagement. She’s a
“nice American,” which means she’s
quite charming, and she has a classical as
well as a lighter repertoire. One of the
greatest compliments paid to Miss East
came from out West, where most of the
people in her audience were the real thing
in cowboys. Said one husky lad: “Well,
ma’am, we have fights up here, and they
sometimes last three rounds, but I’m
thinking you lasted nine rounds.” This
American Gabriel always dresses to
suit the delicate gold-plated instrument
which is her most precious possession.
Her frocks are always long and are either
white or black-and-gold. On one occa-
sion she had an expensive new gown to
wear when playing for the Easter service
on the steps of the Capitol, Washington,
but the rain came down in torrents, so she
left the frock at home, put on a long
white raincoat, white rubber boots and
a white hat and played with the rain
streaming into her eyes. It didn’t hurt
her trumpet, and that was all that mat-
tered. Miss East first took up the trumpet
for her health, and has found it fine for
breathing and for posture. She has no
trouble with an expanding diaphragm and
eats what and when she likes. Owing to
long years of practice in front of a mirror
her playing looks deceptively effortless.
Owing to Court mourning for Queen
Marie of Rumania there were no vice-
regal representatives present at the
Maimed and Limbless Soldiers’ Ball at
Earl s Court —a great success as it always
is, with an old-time dance thrown in now
and then just to take the Diggers back a
few decades. General Brand, not long
back from Brisbane, called in for the
early part of the evening. John Web-
ster and Roy Laraghy found things in
common to talk about and wore their
respective insignias of C.M.G. and 0.8. E.
J? Lynch, of the Blinded Soldiers’ Asso-
ciation, was there with his wife. Tom
Grey, who is such a good worker for
“Wingies,” came alone ; his wife is still
abroad. James Bell was an early arrival,
and stayed the distance till the end. He’s
a committeeman of the Aero Club, and
is loyal to his hobby by doing all his
travelling between Brisbane and Perth
by ’plane.
Gippsland is interested in the visit of
the Reginald Jowseys, who are staying
at Fernhill, the rambling old country
home which has belonged to the Whit-
takers family for many years. Before
her marriage, which took place 18
months ago, Mrs. Jowsey was Maudie
Whittakers. The couple arrived last
week from England, and are returning
there in November. Their home is at
Scalby, and they call their house Tulaba,
Mrs. Jowsey’s choice, after an old abo.
who used to work for her father.


INVESTIGATE
BEFORE
INVESTING
Obviously, this is the logical
procedure when your money,
no matter how much, is
involved.
Therefore, you owe it to
yourself to investigate im-
mediately an investment
considered by the world’s
leading financial experts to
be of the soundest.
Write for free Booklet
No. 1 to:
AUSTRALIAN
FIXED TRUSTS
PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 85295. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandulat
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
*Xv>
m
LAND OF VIVID
CONTRASTS
'Visit intriguing South
Africa where native cus-
toms, strange animals,
and awe-inspiring scenery
blend together in a ivorld
of adventure and romance.
Travel through this Gol-
den Land where civilized
comforts may he yours
in a setting of nature's
exotic marvels. A modern
transport system has
been developed to afford
you the utmost in speed,
comfort, and convenience.
A WOMAN OF
ZULULAND
Obtain full particulars to-day from all offices of,
DALGETY & CO. LTD.
(Incorporated In England)
Agents South African Railways throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
1
i
i
mmm
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Where Did Leichhardt Die?
“N. Cubby”: For about the eightieth
time in history the discovery of skeletons
outback has led to the belief that
the Leichhardt mystery has been un-
ravelled at last. This time the find has
been made in the Simpson desert, in north-
ern South Australia, about 30 miles from
the Finke River. There, Edwin Lowe, a
pastoralist, and his son came upon seven
skeletons, grouped as if round a camp-
fire, and another two miles away.
The S.A. Government is fitting out
an expedition to determine whether they
are the bones of the Leichhardt party or
not. Perhaps they are; but if Leich-
hardt succeeded in getting his bullocks
and horses across the Diamantina
country, which was flooded in his year,
and across the Simpson Desert, he must
have been a much better bushman than
he is given credit for being. It is gener-
ally accepted that his outfit consisted of
five whites and two blacks.
It is possible that the bones found by
the Lowes were those of a party of pros-
pectors speared in the old Territory gold
days, and travelling from the Finke, not
to it. And they may have been Chinese
—skeletons of Chinese have been found
in all sorts of strange places in outback
Australia.
The report that a Sydney party was
to look for Leichhardt’s remains in Lake
Massacre, near Innamincka, brought an
interesting communication from E. H.
Hely, whose father was sent by the N. S.
Wales Government to look for the ex-
plorer in 1852. The elder Hely returned
with about the likeliest story yet told.
At Surat (S. Queensland) Hely was put
in touch with blackboys from beyond
Mount Abundance, where Leichhardt
had last been heard of. These Binghis
related a circumstantial story of
how natives some years before had sur-
rounded a camp of white men in the
dawn and killed them all. They volun-
teered a description of the route followed
by Leichhardt to Mt. Abundance, which
proved to be correct.
The murders, they asserted, were a
result of interference by two of the ex-
plorer’s blackboys with gins, and they
pointed out one boy in the Hely outfit
who resembled one of the offenders. He
was found to be a brother of one of
Leichhardt’s Binghis.
Other blacks met on the way told the
same circumstantial story, and some
added corroborative details. One gin
mentioned two camps. Both were found,
and each was marked with the letters
XVA.
Fresh tracks of a few cattle were also
seen, and eventually some natives were
discovered with axes made from saddle
trees. But no natives would take Hely
to the site of the massacre.
The younger Hely says he knows of
only one copy of his father’s report. The
S. Aust. Royal Geographical Society re-
published it in 1914-15, and it is in most
public libraries.
New Guinea
The report on the administration of
New Guinea for 1937 was presented to
the League last April and to Australians
—as usual—some time later. Many
pages deal with criminal statistics, the
incidence of diseases and the like. The
“After you with the dorg, Ma ; me feet're like ice.”
very vital matter of general development
takes a back seat.
New Guinea is a little larger than Vic-
toria, but is immensely more difficult to
develop, mainly because of its scattering
of islands, its variations of climate and
its rugged mountains, which make com-
munication expensive, and its volcanoes,
which make life uncertain.
Agricultural leases total 125,000 acres,
and there are three small pastoral leases.
However, production is such ( that this
land yielded £1,300,000 of export revenue
last year, and another £2,020,000 came
from goldmining. There is no mineral
industry outside gold, nor any cow-farm-
ing, although the kind of country opened
up during the last few years by District
Officers’ Patrols gives opportunities for
beef production. Tea and cinchona may
also be grown on the mainland, if the
high plateaus which stretch along the
head waters of the Ramu, and down the
Markham valley to the sea from Mt.
Hagen, live up to experts’ opinions.
There is not much chance of extensive
white settlement in those regions, which,
generally speaking, are high and well
watered and have a temperate climate,
even though the Markham valley alone
is computed to have 750,000 acres of
river-flat land suitable for agriculture.
The native population is too large. But
there should be abundant opportunity for
increasing the output of native agriculture
and of developing wealth and trade be-
hind the goldfields.
The growth of the Territory since ex-
propriation is shown by its public
finances. The revenue of £193,000 in
1920-21 has increased to £481,000. Ex-
penditure in almost every department
has trebled or quadrupled ; nevertheless,
there is a steady surplus. Indeed, the
Administration has a credit balance to its
trust funds of £238,900, and a public
debt of only £39,000, having in a few
years performed the commendable feat
of paying off £lOl,OOO out of £140,000.
Half the debt is due to trust funds, the
rest to the Commonwealth.
The Administration has hopes of mov-
ing to its new capital in a few months.
The Commonwealth Treasury is guaran-
teeing loans to pay for the transfer and
connections, and £500,000 is mentioned,
This is sheer guesswork. General New
Guinea opinion is that the cost will be
nearer a million than half a million
before the job is done.
“Copper’s Nark”: I note on a list of
“criminal offences” of which Europeans
in New Guinea were guilty last year the
following: “Being the owner of a dog
which attacked a person, driving a car
without a license, permitting an un-
authorised person to drive, exceeding
speed limit, failing to pay current wages,
failing to provide native laborers with
beds, failing to exhibit charges for
meals, and failing to maintain roads.”
As for Brown Brother, it has become
“criminal” for him to be of unsound
mind and to ride a bicycle without a light
or on a footpath. A few years ago his
peccadillos were almost entirely either
violent or lewd, but now coons are
booked for motoring offences, for using
dynamite without a permit, for being
under the influence of liquor, for ior-
gery, perjury and conspiracy and false
pretences. One dusky lad has been con-
victed of owning knuckledusters.
*** * „ .
“Reformed Adjutant : It Kaloa (B.
3/ 8 / ’3B) is correct, then the sooner we
hand our mandate over New Guinea
back to the Germans the better. An
Administration which permits its uni-
formed officials to wear brown Sam
Brownes and black boots at one and the
same time is unworthy of the sacre
trust imposed in it.
* . * . * , *
“Qwert Yuiop : Brisbane has more
abo. place-names than any other Austra-
lian capital, some of them delightfully
musical in sound. Yeerongpilly, running
water, comes from the river s ripple and
murmur past the rocks and sandbais of
the big bend. Coorparoo is an exact
rendering of the wood pigeon’s call. Boo-
roodabin is place of oaks, Kurilpa place
of bandicoots. Bulimba, heart-shaped,
derives from the near-by river loop,
Curiously, no satisfactory explanation or
translation of the best-known of them
all, Woolloongabba, has yet been forth-
coming.


Tff#
EMPIRE'S MILLIONS
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month: 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
PRE-SELECTOR UNIT FOR INSELECTIVE B.C. RECEIVERS.
This inexpensive accessory is more useful than a wavetrap, and can
improve considerably the selectivity and sensitivity of many of the older
type broadcast receivers.
Many listeners, especially in country
locations, are still using old-type tuned
R.F. receivers, and the question of over-
lapping stations and inselectivity gener-
ally is an important one. With stations
more numerous and more powerful than
they were a few years ago, the user of
a receiver of early T.R.F. design situated
close to a local station may find it im-
possible to tune in distant stations even
if the receiver is sensitive enough. In
the case of complete overshadowing by
the local, a wavetrap can be effective,
but it does nothing to improve selectivity
in the tuned circuits. With a receiver
using a regenerative detector, some
measure of selectivity improvement is
present, but there are many old receivers
in use minus regeneration on the de-
tector.
Selectivity can be obtained in the
T.R.F. type of receiver in two ways: the
number of tuned circuits can be in-
creased and the R.F. resistance of the
tuned circuits can be reduced. The first
is not practicable i.n most receivers owing
to space limitations, but the second can
be achieved by the use of coils wound
with Litz wire on iron-dust cores such
as Sirufer with appropriate shielding.
Not a Wavetrap.
The pre-selector described here is quite
different in action from the wavetrap.
Radio experimenters of earlier days will
recall the three-coil tuning arrangements
using plug-in honeycomb coils of large
diameter, with a variable-tuned aerial
coupling coil. This pre-selector does the
same thing in a more convenient and
effective manner. It adds to the selec-
tivity of the receiver by virtue of the
tuned and loosely-coupled circuit. It is,
of course, another tuned circuit to
Fig. 1. —An external pre-selector of this
type is a useful addition to an inselective
receiver. It costs only a few shillings to
construct.
handle, but the results make it well worth
while. In nine cases out of 10, the
receiver can be vastly improved in gen-
eral performance by tuning the aerial,
What it lacks in sensitivity can be made
up for by putting into it the strongest
possible signal from the aerial. Tuning
the aerial, as with a pre-selector such
as this, raises the signal-to-noise ratio,
and full use can be made of a really
good outside aerial without undue trouble
lrom the local station. Some years ago
the writer used a pre-selector of this
type with a simple regenerative detector
and one audio receiver in a Sydney
suburb. Almost under the shadow of
the 2BL transmitter more than 50
stations were logged, and this with a
lengthy outside aerial.
Circuit Details.
The diagram of the circuit, Fig. 2,
shows the principle of the unit, and
from this and Fig. 1 it will be seen that
Fig. 2. —Circuit diagram of the pre-
selector unit. It must be completely
screened for best results.
[ it is simply and inexpensively con-
, structed. The coil L 2 and the variable
| condenser C are the usual combination to
tune over the broadcast band. L 2 is
tapped for two alternative aerial con-
nections, this being necessary owing to
varying aerial lengths and capacity. The
first connection, Al, is tapped half-way
along the coil, and the other, A 2, about
two-thirds the number of turns from the
earth end of the coil. When in use these
alternative connections are tried tp deter-
mine which better suits the aerial. Al will
be used with a particularly long aerial.
The coil LI consists of six turns of any
fine gauge insulated wire, wound on a
layer of insulation tape over the top end
of L 2. The turns are wound in the same
direction as those on L 2, and the in-
side end is left open with no connection.
Any of the various size formers with
the correct winding and tuning con-
denser can be used for L 2, and if one
of the old 3in. diameter 26 D.S.C. formers
is on hand this can be tapped and used.
If the usual l|in. diameter former is used
as in the original pre-selector of Fig. 1,
L 2 will have 102 turns of 36 D.S.C. tapped
at 51 turns from the top for Al and
34 turns for A 2. The variable con-
denser should have a capacity around
,00036mfd., but if a 3in. coil is used
.0005mfd. will be needed. A plain knob
is sufficient for the tuning control.
Screening Box.
The assembly is built into a metal
screening box—a square biscuit tin or
even a large-diameter round coffee tin
will do. Four terminals are fitted, three
insulated and one earthed to the metal.
The latter is for connection to earth,
in conjunction with the receiver earth
connection. Mounting of the variable
condenser depends upon the fixing pro-
vided with the particular type. The rotor
is earthed to the screening box and the
condenser mounted in such a position as
to clear the box with the rotor plates
open. The coil assembly may be placed
in any convenient position, and in the
original it is seen bolted to the inside
top of the box. A convenient size for
the box is 6in. by sin. by with a
cover-plate to fit over the bottom.
Operation.
The aerial lead is removed from the
receiver and connected to one of the
two terminals, Al and A 2. Connect a
lead from the earth terminal of the
receiver to the earth terminal of the pre-
selector, the two thus being earthed via
the earth lead already connected to the
receiver. Another wire is connected from
the terminal providing the coupling from
the pre-selector to the aerial terminal of
the receiver, and the unit is ready for
use.
Tune in a powerful local station on
the receiver and then adjust the pre-
selector control. The “soread” of the
local station should be narrowed down
considerably without any loss of volume.
At the lower end of the tuning range
stations which previously may have been
hopelessly jumbled together should now
be cleared up. Tuning procedure is
always the same —receiver first and pre-
selector afterwards. If the two aerial
tappings on the pre-selector coil do not
provide a balance between the two, inter-
mediate tappings should be tried. Prac-
tice will soon familiarise the user with
the operation of the unit, which in effect
is a “selective aerial tuner.” It is a
useful accessory for use with the Ash-
box Midget, described in B. 15/6/’3B,
though for most purposes that little re-
ceiver is amply selective.
Parts for this pre-selector or the com-
plete unit can be obtained from Reco
Radio, 9 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
D.B.K.
Measuring R.F. by
Illumination.
Radiotronics No. 88, issued by A.W.
Valve Co., contains details of a method
for measuring the R.F. output of an
oscillator or transmitter by coupling a
pickup coil to a suitable lamp.
The lamp should be of a type giving
good brilliancy. An identically similar
lamp operated from a D.C. supply and
having a voltmeter connected across the
terminals should be placed close to the
first, and the D.C. voltage adjusted until
the two are equal in brilliancy as judged
by the eye. Differences between lamps
can be checked by interchanging the two
lamps and noting the difference in read-
ing. A calibration curve may be drawn
for a particular lamp showing the watts
against volts used in the illumination of
the checking standard. A D.C. ammeter
or milliammeter will be needed for this
calibration. The lamp used should have
as small an inductance as possible, and
the zigzag type filament is to be pre-
ferred to a coiled filament. For small
oscillators a small pea-lamp having a
single-loop filament could be used, but it
may be necessary to select two lamps
which are suitably matched.
As an alternative method, a photo-
graphic exposure meter or illumination
meter may be used under suitable con-
ditions to measure the light given by the
lamp actuated by R.F., the reading of
the meter being calibrated under known
conditions by the first method. A still
further variation is to use only a single
lamp, which must first be calibrated for
watts against volts. This is then used
as a resistive load on the transmitter,
and the voltage across it is read by
means of a suitable diode valve-volt-
meter. An indirectly-heated valve hav-
ing a grid brought out to the top of the
bulb may be used as the diode, the re-
maining electrodes being connected to
the cathode, or as an alternative any
valve having diodes may be used.
A 0.35 megohm load resistance is suit-
able, and should be shunted by a
.OOlmfd. condenser. With this load re-
sistance the peak R.F. voltage is approxi-
mately 350 volts per Ima. D.C. This
voltage range is suitable for a 240-volt
lamp and a milliammeter reading Ima.
full scale. A tapping on the coil in the
tank circuit may then be arranged to
give a suitable load on the transmitter.
This method does not actually utilise the
illumination of the lamp for measure-
ment purposes, as the lamp acts as a re-
sistive load of high dissipation and low
inductance. It is reasonably accurate at
frequencies up to 15mc., but should not
be used at higher frequencies.
V.C.
What's What in Radio.
The 10-kilowatt station VUD at
Bombay, India, transmits on 90.8 metres
at night and on 49.3 metres during the
daytime. The new Delhi station, VUD4,
will be on 31.41 metres during daytime
and on 19.62 metres at night.
* * * * *
The Iranian Government is erecting a
20-kilowatt broadcasting station near
Teheran. Beam aerials are to be erected
specially for directive transmission to
North America, Australia and Europe.
* X * X
Large-screen reception of the Derby
television broadcast was successfully
demonstrated in London by the Baird
system and also by the Scophony
mechanical system. This is a step fur-
ther in the fulfilment of J. L. Baird's
prophecy before the Radio Convention
in Sydney early this year that large-
screen television is imminent.
t'fi *
In an address in Sydney, E. T. Fisk,
chairman of A.W.A., said that Austra-
lian radio receivers are as efficiently de-
signed, well produced and reasonably
priced as in any country and that in some
cases Australian apparatus is considered
superior. Receivers are installed in more
than a million homes, and 99 p.c. of the
equipment used is designed and made
in Australia. The Australian radio in-
dustry gives direct employment to
approximately 30,000 people and pro-
motes the circulation of at least
£7,000,000 per year. Greater part of
this goes in wages and salaries. Power
used in the operation of broadcast re-
ceivers in homes contributes £500,000
per year to the electricity undertakings.
In an ordinary radio receiver, there are
from 700 to 1000 parts, which means
that between 140 and 200 million sepa-
rate parts are made in Australian fac-
tories every year,.
Radio Comment.
“R.H.A.”: When adjusting speech-
amplifiers and similar voltage amplifica-
tion stages it is better to use a milliam-
meter in series with the cathode of a
valve than to put a voltmeter across the
bias resistor. Where high-gain triode or
pentode stages are 1 used, even high-resis-
tance voltmeters introduce error, and the
current, method is much better. If the
value of the bias resistor is known
accurately it is easy to compute the
voltage developed across it by the
familiar I (in ma.) times R (in ohms)
over 1000. This assumes that the by-
pass across the resistor doesn’t leak.
Naturally, if this condenser is faulty and
is acting as a parallel path, there will be
Televising the repulse of a mock air raid
on Alexandra Palace, headquarters of
the B.B.C.’s television service. Viewers
saw the defence preparations of the Terri-
torial Army’s First Anti-Aircraft Divi-
sion during daylight and the work of
the unit after dark, when the “aerial
attack” was made. Vivid pictures of the
display were obtained, viewers being
able to watch the searchlight beam pick-
ing out the attacking aircraft and the
operations of the gun crew, while hearing
the output of the sound-locating device
and the orders and reports of the defend-
ing officers and observers.
error. With no audio voltage on the
valve, milliammeter readings should be
the same irrespective of whether the
condenser is in circuit or not. If change
is noted discard the condenser.
* :!= *
“R.H.A.”: Hum was found much
stronger in one speaker than in its mate


You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is the ONLY STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONIiY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
Prince s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
m
*'C
9
I
m
$
Hi
r
m
m
w
The same valves that bring speedy help by
ambulance are the best tonic for your radio
set. A regular overhaul of your radio will
give better and brighter programmes. See
your local supplier and . . .
be sure to Re-valve with new m icro-sensitive
RADIOTRONS
iAdvertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.)
in a set of “duals.” By reversing the
connections to the voice-coil (from the
terminal strip on the speaker frame) the
hum dropped to a satisfactory level. The
cones were then found to be out of phase.
Remedy: putting the voice coil leads
back to the original position and revers-
ing, instead, the hum-bucking coil leads.
* * * *
“VK6WZ”: A small fixed condenser
of mica type of about 50mmfd. capacity
serves admirably to cut down the effec-
tive range of large tuning condensers.
Where these are used in a receiver there
is no difficulty in covering the broadcast
band and, with the mica condensers
switched in series, the short-wave bands
are not too cramped. This method also
improves the efficiency of old tuning con-
densers, since the fixed condenser reduces
the minimum as well as maximum
"capacities. It is also possible to use lower
C in tuning circuit for the utmost signal
voltage on the grids of valves.
* * * *
“Buz”: The current ratings of power
transformers need to be studied with
care. In most receivers condenser-input
filter is the rule, and it should not be
forgotten that the input condenser passes
a lot of “double frequency” ripple, which
represents a considerable part of the
transformer’s output. Under these con-
ditions and where a transformer is
actually rated at its maximum, it is im-
possible to secure that figure as a reading
of rectified and smoothed current with-
out the transformer running warm. Some
makers allow for condenser-input and its
increased strain upon the transformer,
but it is as well to assume that such
allowance has not been made. Experi-
menters who make up their own power
units should also bear this point in mind.
Amateur Chatter.
The full report on the Cairo confer-
ence in the July “QST” makes interesting
but disquieting reading. The next inter-
national squabble for frequencies will
take place five years hence in Rome,
and, if Cairo is anything to judge by, ama-
teur radio will be fortunate if anything
of its original status is retained. Nations
hostile to amateur radio are, as defined
at Cairo, Italy, Japan, Germany, Swit-
zerland and Soviet Russia. Known friends
pf the amateur are the U.S.A., the
British Dominions and the Scandinavian
countries. Britain, in the summing up,
is antagonistic. Many of the restric-
tions enforced upon European amateurs
from September, 1939, may not affect
Australians, and reflection upon the privi-
leges of VKs in comparison with Gs and
others should prompt observance of regu-
lations to the letter. “Imitation broad-
casting” is not in the best interests of
amateur radio in this country. All VKs
with a thought for the future should do
their utmost to discourage those who are
undoubtedly giving the authorities reason
for further tightening of restrictions.
During the present winter season it is
easier at night to secure QSOs with Ws
on 7mc. than it is to work with any but
the nearest of local stations. After
nightfall the band is characterised by
weak and fading country and inter-State
signals, so that for such work the 3.5mc.
band is the logical place. The 7mc. band
has always behaved badly during the
winter in previous years, but the no-
signal blanket seems to be denser than
ever this year. A station of unknown
origin, signing R9DC, was heard CQ-ing
on C.W. at the high-frequency end of
the band, but repeated replies brought
no answer.
C.W. schedules on 56mc. with ZL and
southern VK during the morning and
afternoon of 31/7/’3B brought no results,
but these DX tests are to be run continu-
ously each Sunday. The transmissions
for ZL commence at 11 a.m. Sydney
time and run to noon. VK2NO calls ZL
for alternate five-minute periods, listen-
ing for replies in between. As a bi-direc-
tional beam is used it is hoped that some
observation of signal may be noted by
BERSI9S, located at Powell Creek, N.T.
The receiver used at Powell Creek is the
original Ultra-Searcher (B. 3/8/’3B). The
afternoon transmissions on Sundays are
directed south-west for tests with
VK2DN, Deniliquin, and VKSZU, Pros-
pect, S.A., transmission commencing at
3.30 p.m. and running until 4 p.m. Syd-
ney time, with alternate five-minute
periods. It is hoped to maintain a check
on possible results on 7mc., but the
inter-station QRM on this band makes
contact difficult. Very little activity is
noted on 56mc. on Sunday evenings in
Sydney at present. Only stations on the
band on 31/7/’3B were VK2EM,
VK2AJH and VK2NO.
Recent visitors to Sydney
were VKs 2PE from Bourke,
N.S.W., and 3YP, the latter
passing through on his return
trip from Cairns. VK3YP
was one of the first to tackle
10 metres in the early days
and is concerned mainly with
10 and 5 metres. Old hand
VK4WH, formerly of Long-
reach, is now in charge of
the aeradio station at Clon-
curry, N.Q., and has conse-
quently had little time for
experiments. Commercial
equipment for which he is
responsible is at present a 100-watt affair,
to be replaced shortly by 400 watts.
VK4WH got a pleasant surprise when
the skipper of one of the Dutch ’planes
turned out to be PKIVX with a pocket-
ful of QSL cards for VKs with whom he
has been QSO. VK4LK, of Cloncurry, is
operator at the A.I.M. station in the dis-
trict.
The 160-metre band available to
VKs is scorned by metropolitan ama-
teurs because of possible BCL QRM. It
is just as workable as 80 metres during
winter months, and should be particu-
larly useful to stations in some country
districts. There is no reason why any
more QRM should be caused with B.C.
receivers than on 80, but the main point
is that QRO is not at all necessary. Ten
watts can work wonders on this band
at times. Possibly the main objection is
lack of space for the erection of a funda-
mental type aerial system. The band
should be used, or it is likely to be ear-
marked as a commercial frequency.
Members of the British Long Distance
Listeners’ Club are compiling a black
list of amateurs who do not respond with
a QSL card when an International cou-
pon or a stamped addressed envelope is
enclosed. A large number of amateurs do
not seek reports from S.W.Ls. Perhaps the
best thing to do in that case is to make
an announcement after every transmis-
sion to the effect that “this station does
not expect reports from short-wave lis-
teners.” If operating on the key, a short
“SWL rpts not wanted” should suffice.
The position is difficult for many ama-
teurs, for the number of SWL reports
reaching an active station grows to a
formidable pile in no time. But the con-
scientious amateur will do his utmost to
answer all reports, for the S.W.L. is a
potential amateur himself.
VK2NO.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Of chief interest since the last log
have been the good signals from GSG
and, sometimes, GSJ. W3XAL has also
been good copy at night. DJB is usually
strong by 9.30 p.m., and conditions point
to an early return of summer 19-metre re-
ception. YDC on 19.8 metres is always
good in the morning, commencing at
9 a.m., but only fair in the afternoons and
very irregular at night. PCJ on 19.7
metres is the best station on this band in
the afternoons. After breakfast, Daven-
try, Berlin, Paris, Moscow and Java all
come in, with GSO the best.
The best 25-metre stations in the morn-
ings are TPA3 and 4, GSD, 2RO, RNE,
DJD, W2XE, WBXK and WIXAL.
CSW (30.7 metres) is easily the best of
the 31-metre stations in the mornings;
then come Paris and GSB. VK2ME and
VLR often fade by 8 p.m., though
warmer evenings have brought improve-
ment.
Recently I picked up ZBWS in Hong
Kong on 16.9 metres at good volume.
Time was 9.45 a.m. here, and the signal
weakened considerably by 10.15 a.m.
This station has only been heard once
previously, in September, 1937, in Towns-
ville.
ZHP, Singapore, was heard on its
opening night at 9.40 p.m., E.S.T. Wave-
length is 30.96 metres: simultaneous
transmission takes place on 225 metres
through ZHL. At 8.45 p.m. WBXAL on
49.5 metres was stronger than VK9MI
(M.V. Kanimbla) relaying to 4CA. This
was the strongest signal ever heard from
WBXAL. At 9.15 p.m. GSJ was stronger
than GSG in a rebroadcast of the royal
visit to France. There was no sign of
“This city life's good-oh, though at first / did miss the smell of the cows .”
RNE at 9.30 p m. and at 10 p.m. XTJ
was only fair.
K. B. G., Thargomindah (Q.).
“Mac”: Loose sockets are the most
common bugbear of the non-technical
listener. They are hard to recognise and
diagnose, though easily cured when found
by twisting all the prongs slightly out-
ward from the centre of the valve-base.
Usual symptoms are: Intermittent
crackle ; crackle when a loose board is
stepped upon ; crackle which requires a
smart rap on the cabinet; irregular in-
terior lighting of valve; sudden muting
of set at intervals ; looseness of valves in
socket, obvious to the hand.
The Question Box.
(1) Where can 1 procure a copy of “Radio
World" ( U.S.A .) containing article on electric
fencing, summarised B. 27/7/’3B ? (2) I have
a six-valve A.W.A. battery receiver which is
three years old. Results are excellent, but
tuning is broad. Would a wavetrap cut out
some of the interference? —7oB.
(1) The article is in the June, 1938, issue,
obtainable from Swains, Ltd., Pitt-street, Syd-
ney. (2) The pre-selector unit described in this
issue is recommended.
* * * *
(1) Having completed a 25-watt experimental
transmitter, using an 809 in the final and a
Class-B modulator with 46’.?, I am uncertain as
to the best method of coupling the modulator
to the transmitter. What is the difference
between straight output transformer coupling
and a choke-capacity coupling? (2) Correct
values for choke-capacity coupling? —7o7.
(1) and (2) Diagrams A and B show the dif-
ference between the two methods, with shunt
feed to the modulated amplifier at A. This
keeps the D.C. for the modulated amplifier out
of the output transformer secondary. The choke
L should be 30 henries at least, preferably
more, with a 150 ma. rating. Condenser C
should be at least 2mfd., and rated at 1000
volts or more. No extra apparatus is needed
with the simpler form of coupling, as in B, but
the low-frequency response of the transformer
may be cut down. The transformer must be
capable of carrying the modulated amplifier
plate current.


Less cosily than a horse-team
iiili
H
... and capable of far more work
TN every way the English Fordson is
a more economical proposition than
a horse team. ,It costs less to buy. It
costs less to run. With the puliey-
_ wheel ; as .standard equipment, the
Fordson is adaptable to all stationary
erigine jobs around farm or station-
operating saws, threshing,
etc. —as well. as handling field-work
speedily and efficiently.
Fordson is far lower in price than
tractors using low-grade fuels. The
amount thus saved, in purchase price
alone will buy sufficient power kero-
sene to plough up to 6,000 acres of
wheat land with your Fordson. 1 .
Investigate Fordson. It is a thoroughly
sound investment. The Fordson dealer
near you will gladly arrange for you to ;
test Fordson on your own property.
Exceptionally easy purchase terms are
provided by the Fordson finance plan.
FORDSON FEATURES: heavy-
DUTY TRANSMISSION • GOVERNOR
CONTROL • OPTIONAL SPEEDS •
STATICALLY AND DYNAMICALLY BAL-
ANCED CRANKSHAFT c • 1 EXHAUST
VALVE INSERTS • BOSCH MAGNETO
IMPULSE STARTER
'■ ’) S'. ,
The English
TRACTOR
DISTRIBUTORS
New Sooth Wa'es:
MOTOR TRACTORS TTY., LTD.
Corner Bridge and Young Sts., Sydney
Queensland: *'
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND) LTD.
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane j.
Victoria, Riverina and Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE LIMITED,
' 'f - City-Showrooms: , -
601-603 Little Street, Melbourne
South Australia: '-
POWER PLANT LTD., 98-100 Currie
Street. Adelaide
Western Australia:. ;
LYNAS MOTORS LTD.,: Hay Street,
• • .Perth - • r
—° R D R COMPANY OF A_U_S T R ALIA PTY. UT D. ,0. N-C ORP O R A..T~ EO? I N V■Oxn p . . »>
Public Notice.
Triton Gold Mines, No Liability.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend (the
6th) oi Sixpence (6d.) per share has -been de-
clared on all the issued shares in the capital
ol the Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the
Registered Office of the Company on Friday
the 9th day of September, 1938.
Transfer Books and Share Registers , will
close at 5 p.m. on Thursday, the 18th day of
August, 1938, and reopen at 9 a.m. on Saturday,
the 20th day of August, 1938, and shareholders
registered on Friday, the 19th day of August
1938, will be entitled to receive the dividend
By order of the board,
• L. EDWARDS, Manager.
Collins House, Melbourne,
August 4, 1938.
THE
WOMAN $ MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68—page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Every month six to nine patterns
are given away free for a penny-
stamp for postage.
Published by
1 he Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
m
m
FREE TO YOU!
This book may be the gateway to your
success! Its 32 pages are beautifully
illustrated and contain important infor-
mation ; about Cartooning, Posterwork
and Advertisement Illustrating. It tells
how these subjects cam be studied at
, home under 15 of Australia’s leading
Artists.
Most important are the special Question-
naire and the Test Drawings, which carry
< with them the offer of an EXPERT
CRITICISM free of charge and without
obligation. ’
•Write now for your copy, mentioning
“The Bulletin.” , •
Art Training Institute
80 Swanston Street, Melbourne, Vic.


nrrs
LYS
pßoor.
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Neiting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
&
:
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WI R E.W IRE NETTING, ETC.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
Rugging Grows in Favor.
“Ghanam”: There is a growing pile of
evidence in favor of sheep-rugging in
suitable districts. S. Williams, of Golds-
brough Mort, Adelaide, has gathered the
experiences of 50 growers with rugged
sheep during 1936-37. Gains in wool price
were as much as 6d. per lb., and average
3d.
Eighteen of the experimenters checked
wool weights and found an increase of
from 141 b. to 241 b. per head. The cost
of rugging averaged over the 50 about
2s. 3d. per head, including attention dur-
ing the rugging period ; the gross extra
income from rugging averaged 4s. 6d.,
leaving a profit of 2s. 3d. per head.
Much depends on proper adjustment of
the rugs and on the period for which they
are left on. All-the-year-round rugging
produces wool too heavy in condition. It
is best to rug after shearing and keep the
rugs on for five or six months. Winter
rugging gives good results when the sea-
son is cold and wet.
Sheep evaporate moisture through the
mouth and rugs do not increase body
heat. In fact, it is possible that in
summer sheep may be cooler with the
rugs on. R. C. Scott, of the S. Aus-
tralian Agricultural Department, cites a
case in which temperature near the skin
of a rugged sheep was 15 degrees lower
than that of an unrugged one.
It was found that rugs soon water-
proofed themselves through absorbing
wool grease and that they caused no
trouble in droving, lambing or drafting.
Several successful trials have been
made in N. S. Wales, and in some of
them, apart from increase in body and
wool weight and improvement in wool
quality, it has been noticed that the rug
helps protect against the fly.
Cotton duck seems to be about the best
material for rugs, and the price should
be reducible with expansion of use. At
a pinch, however, almost any durable
material suits. One N. S. Wales lamb-
raiser gave his Shropshire lambs five
weeks under old super, bags. They aver-
aged 21s. lOd. at sale against 17s. Id. for
unrugged controls.
Fat Lambs in Queensland.
“Clifton”: Strenuous efforts are being
made by the Queensland Agricultural
Department to promote the fat lamb in-
dustry on the Darling Downs. Border
Leicester, Southdown, Shropshire, Dorset
Horn and Romney Marsh rams have
been distributed among farmers on loan,
but heavy, strong-woolled merino lines
suitable for producing a crossbred flock
of dams are scarce. When a supply does
become available, there will be variety of
lambs for exporters to choose from.
The department might do better to
make up its mind what type is most suit-
able. Romney Marsh or Lincoln on
cast ewes from the western fringe of the
Downs should provide the right type of
mothers, but it is probable that southern
practice, which is gradually turning to
Southdown rams for breeding on cross-
bred ewes, will need to be varied. South-
down crosses call for unchecked growth
from birth to block. The Dorset Horn
seems to be a fairly safe bet for the D.D.
country. It is early-maturing and hardy,
and is more likely to prosper in the
Downs climate than any of the others.
Shearing Economies.
“Murrawong”: Depleted sheep num-
bers through drought have resulted in
smaller shearing teams, and several N. S.
Wales stations which ordinarily employ
a classer and an expert are engaging one
man to carry out both duties and go over
the board. For five stands and under
that is quite feasible, provided the gear is
in fair condition and the man is capable.
But several graziers who intend to dis-
pense with a classer are likely to regret
their dicision.
In a good season, well-grown wool is
always sought after, but the margin be-
tween it and a straight line of wool is not
so great as in shabby types. The poorer
the classing and the more mixed the clip,
even if well grown, the lower the price.
When wools are thin, wasty, dusty and
“The ole cow! She's always the same in traffic."
shorter-stapled, with all the hall-marks of
drought on them, they need more careful
preparation. Certain flocks may have
suffered more than others, and if they are
not handled by someone with a good
knowledge of the uses these various types
may be put to the owner will certainly
lose. Mixing sound, fairly well-nourished
fleeces with wasty, tender wools will not
help. Each type has its own particular
buyer, and the mixture is useless to any-
one except the repacker or speculator.
Without a classer the shedhands are
left much to their own devices in skirting
and piece-picking. Woolgrowers will find
it bad business to sacrifice the get-up of
their clip at a time when the highest pos-
sible return from their wool is most
needed. There is an excuse for the owner
of a small clip of 50 bales or less not
having a classer. Better to send the en-
tire clip to a reliable city firm for re-
classing.
Marking Lambs.
“Tryit”: By marking lambs in a
freshly-built yard in the paddock, sheep
and lambs get knocked about less, and
the system is a safeguard against tetanus.
The lambs don’t bleed so much and don’t
have to be driven after marking.
I found I could run up a yard and,
after use, remove it quicker than I could
take a strong mob to the main yards. Use
netting only and iron standards placed in
a corner of the paddock. Wire one
standard across two others near where
the sheep come into the yard as a mark-
ing rail. On one end wire the lid of the
boiler to hold instruments not in use.
No plain wire is required. The netting is
tied to standards placed 6ft. apart and
driven through the bottom of the netting.
Be sure to place netting on the inside of
standards. Slant them in towards the
yard for additional strength. Burn the
tails before leaving and choose a differ-
ent spot next year.
Tanks—a Growing Need.
“Brigalow”: A great deal of the
trouble with bore-water (B. 3/ 8 / ’3B) is
that so little of it is used effectively.
The Queensland Land Board reports
that
it has been computed for the typical
Cunnamulla-St. George (flow bore) area
that the stock drink only 3.6 p.c. of the
water which Hows from the bores. This
waste of water is involving industry in
much needless expenditure of capital.
A census is now being taken of bore
areas, and an attempt will be made to
devise a conservation scheme. The board
is thinking of pipelines.
This seems a fair suggestion when
brigaded with tanks not so large as to
court wasteful evaporation, but small
enough and at frequent enough intervals
to allow rationing of water during
It should be possible to muzzle off
the bore supply to a diminished flow
and keep it at non-wasteful level.
With an up-to-date ' caterpillar a
2000 yd. tank can be ripped out and
c • / . ■ • i , c ■ ,
fiti.shed tns.de a week from peggtng to
silt hole. As an example of what can be
?°1 e i",^^ ale .r rk ’ E - E f r J- of
WaIg(N.S.W.), not long ago put down
a 15,000 ft. tank, using a Diesel tractor
and a 3vd. hydiaulic scoop, inside 20
da y s - . _
The usual procedure is to peg the lines
of t it tank, then take a plough round the
edge behind a tractor, making a full
circle turn outside the tank area at each
corner. Three more cuts are made in-
side the first, each deeper than the one
before—the gauge shoe being raised to
its top point in two rounds and then
removed. This process provides the right
batter. A five-point ripper is then turned
on to break up the inside area —it handles
a sft. strip of ground at a time. A foot
of top soil can then be scooped off the
surface and packed outside the tank-
edge, at least 2ft. from the outside
plough cut. The first series of operations
is repeated until the correct depth has
been reached.
If all the water which comes out of a
bore with a flow of 500,000ga1. per day
could be used without loss or evapora-
tion, it would keep a million sheep going
comfortably through anything. There
are 10 bores in Queensland which
provide enough water to carry through
the whole sheep population at a pinch—
theoretically, at any rate.
Feed for Production.
“Silky Bag”: Give the higher-pro-
ducing cow the bigger ration. The aver-
age cow needs about 31b. carbohydrates
and fib. protein for every gallon of milk
produced in addition to her ordinary
body-maintenance ration. Consequently,
a 4gal. cow on the same ration as a
2gal. cow is being done out of the equiva-
lent of 91b. bran or 101 b. ground oats
each day. She has to make it up from
pasture with extra foraging.
Portion out food accurately. If the
pasture is first-class mixed stuff there is
little need to worry, but even when light
feeding has to be done it pays to give
it to the good cows. The lgal. cow may
not improve half-a-pound with extra
feed, but the 3gal. one, even if she comes
up only a lew pounds, will be kept in
better heart for the rest of the lactation.
A full standard ration is 31b. per gallon
of milk produced of a mixture of two
parts bran or ground oats and one part
peanut, linseed or cottonseed meal.
Pigs and Wheat.
“Berk-Tarn”: .The pig helped many a
wheatgrower over the stile during the
four-year slump of 1931-35. In the 1931-
32 season the return was about Is. Bd. a
bushel on the farm, and in the years that
the market hovered about 2s. to 2s. 9d.
the pig became increasingly popular in
the western and southern N.S.W. wheat
belt. Thousands were raised as far out
as Hillston.
Even without milk feeding the pig has
proved a profitable subsidiary in inland
mixed farming and a means of turning
cheap wheat into a payable product.
Wheat fed to pigs returned the equivalent
of 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. a bushel. In large-
scale operations on a Gunningbland
(Continued on next page.)


EXPLORERS OF AUSTRALIA
M
A
HAiV^v
The aim of Hann's expedition was to explore the southern
portion of the Cape York Peninsula. He left old Fossilbrook
Station, south of Chillagoe, in June, 1872, and in the following
five months he discovered the Tate, Walsh, Palmer and Coleman
Rivers. He also explored a river that Kennedy had crossed in
1848 and named it the Stewart.
Hann discovered gold on the Palmer River, but he was not
convinced that it existed in payable quantities. Prospectors,
attracted by his report soon reached the area, and in 1873
found rich deposits on the Palmer nnd its tributaries. Gold to
the value of over five million pounds was taken from the field
within a few years.
The development of the Palmer River goldfield led to the
establishment of the town of/Cooktown in 1873. It was the
port for the district.
The Bank of New South Wales, the pioneer bank
in Australia, opened a branch in Cooktown in
1874, thus providing full banking services to the
miners developing this field, 1800 miles away
from Sydney.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
l ST.
I*l7
336 C 1938
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin' has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tC2 return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations ~ . . . . . . „ 15
Sheep bought „ 20
Wire netting „ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1938 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and your account book wfll be forwarded to you.
ffufsxxl2elx/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
property, for instance, many thousand
bushels of wheat, as stated at the time by
the owners, reached 4s. to 4s. 6d. a bushel
when “marketed on the hoof” at the pig
sales.
When wheat soared to ss. and wool
and lambs recovered, the pig disappeared
from the picture.
The pig certainly is worthy of more
recognition and of a place in a more
thorough system of animal husbandry. It
is claimed that wheat-fed pork or bacon
is superior to maize-fed in flavor, texture
and color. Anyway, the Commonwealth
can do with more pigs in all suitable
areas, provided feed is regularly grown
and reserved on the farm.
Lachlan Lucerne.
“Yarrunga”: There is no N.S.W. in-
land area better suited for fodder con-
servation than under-developed Lachlan
Valley. An impetus might have been
given to irrigated-lucerne growers had the
Government made any attempt with
works to distribute the water that has
been stored in Wyangala dam in the last
three years. It is only recently that a
start was made with construction work in
connection with the Jemalong water
supply and irrigation district, comprising
223,000 acres.
Part of Jemalong station embraced
in this area has been offered to the Gov-
ernment for closer settlement, and some-
thing may be doing hereabouts with
Wyangala water in another couple of
years.
Pumping water from the Lachlan for
the irrigation of 300 acres or more of
lucerne, Jemalong has consistently con-
served hay every year since the late
’nineties.
The station made history in 1902-03
with an experiment under Government
supervision in which sheep in yards were
maintained for four months on a drought
ration of green lucerne cut daily. Store
sheep, fed at the rate of 75 per acre of
lucerne, were healthy throughout, and
even put on a little weight. A neigh-
boring station expended more than
£200,000 during that drought in the pur-
chase of fodder —and lost most of the
sheep.
Jemalong this year brought in starving
stock from the west to handfeed them on
the spot. The practice in the past was
to truck the hay to outstations in the
Mount Hope country.
In recent years F. W. Hughes, at
Booberoi, below Condobolin, has irri-
gated 7000 acres of fodder crops, lucerne
and improved pasture with water diverted
from the river. This has enabled him to
carry the normal amount of stock in dry
times and to defy drought.
Treating Fevered Feet.
“Horsey”: Once a horse has had
fevered feet the trouble may recur,
especially when changing its coat. It
is usually a sudden attack, the feet be-
come hot and inflamed, and the horse
can hardly move.
Remove the shoes, rest the animal
until cured, and wrap wet swabs re-
peatedly soaked in the following mixture
round the feet: Powdered potassium
nitrate, loz.; powdered ammonium
chloride, loz.; methylated spirits of
wine, 2 fl. oz.; water, 1 quart.
Dissolve the solids in water, using a
little at first. Stir well, then add the
spirits. If the lotion can’t be obtained
at once, if possible stand the horse for
long periods in cool running water.
Give a mild aperient. Feed on sloppy
mashes and green feed.
Quick action is half the cure.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mt. Boppy”: When making silage of
pasture, lucerne, maize or oats, allow
the material to mature without becom-
ing dry. If the crop is not fully de-
veloped the silage will be sloppy and
will lose much of its food value.
“Dungeness”: Don’t throw away the
burner and its socket from a broken or
rusty kerosene lamp. Next time a 21b.
tin of jam needs opening get the missus
to let you do it by making a hole in
the top the size of the socket, and scoop
out the contents with a fork. Wash and
dry the inside thoroughly, clean off the
label, and solder the burner socket into
the hole. Cut a strip of tin wide,
turn in the edges, and solder it on the
tin as a D-shaped handle. Clean it all
up with a drop of oil and emery and
you’ve got as effective a handlamp as
you could buy anywhere.
“Bull-ant Bill”: You can cut a sheet
of corrugated iron across easily enough
with tin-snips, but try doing it length-
wise. The saw will do the job and
remain as good as ever for wood. Line
out the cut, support the sheet solidly,
put the end of the saw in your armpit,
guide its handle with the other hand
along the marked line, and use only the
last tooth, nearest the handle, to scrape
a lengthwise cut. Repeat the operation
two or three times for 26g. iron, oftener
for heavier. Then bend the sheet length-
wise along the cut a few times and it
will crack and come off with a clean
edge that no cold chisel could ever beat.
All the part of the saw used is the top-
most tooth which you never use on wood.
Another useful idea is to file out a few
teeth on a saw-back for use on nails.
“Valerin”: Seeding lucerne, sub. and
other small grains is generally done
through the manure-box, the seed being
mixed with the super., but getting an
even mixture is troublesome. Use an
BxB tarpaulin. Pile the weighed super,
in the centre. Take the corners, pull
towards you and roll back. Repeat the
performance from the sides. Keep going
till seed and super, are well mixed, and
bag. Never mix more than half a day’s
seeding ahead.
“Emel”: “Silky Bag” (B. 13/7/’3B)
goes to a lot of trouble to make his cows
come to top production. Perhaps our
cows don’t reach their fullest flush, but
their yield certainly increases rapidly to
its maximum. We find it best to wean
the calf at birth wherever possible. The
cow is easier to milk, since her teats are
not cut or bruised by the calf’s teeth, and,
never having suckled a calf, she has no
reason for holding up milk. The calf
can be taken away without fuss, and it,
too, is easier to manage, often learning
to drink alone on the second day.
“Drover”: “Huglow’s” assertion that the
eating of bauhinia leaves by sheep “fre-
quently causes blindness” (B. 20/7/’3B)
reminds me that during the ’34-35 drought
in north-west Q’land, when over hundreds
of square miles of country a man couldn’t
have found a straw to clean out his pipe,
a couple of scrub-cutters were told to
start in on bauhinias on the gamble that
the jumbucks might just as well be blind
and alive as dead from starvation. Those
sheep were all right when rains brought
along a bit of picking. There are others
who had a lot to thank the bauhinia for.
“Jayem”: H. O. Cox, of Kangaroo
Valley (N.S.W.), has solved the soil-
erosion problem by pasture improve-
ment. The river almost encircles his
farm, the banks being steep in some
places. Cox cut bracken and blackberries,
topdressed the paspalum pastures and
scattered clover and rye-grass seed on
bare portions of the banks. Each year
he repeats the topdressing, using a bag
of superphosphate an acre. The banks
are now covered with dense pasture,
and there is no sign of erosion. And
further down the South Coast N. S. Bate,
of Bodalla, has put in perennial rye,
cocksfoot, red, white and subterranean
clovers. Topdressing is at the rate of
2cwt. of superphosphate annually, and
there is no sign of erosion, even on hill
country. Pasture growth is heavy, the
surplus being mown and conserved as
hay and silage. Bate’s herd of Austra-
lian Illawarra Shorthorns had an aver-
age production of 3521 b. of butterfat last
year, compared with the State average of
1501 b.
“Bungaree”: A new Victorian Act
requires every manufacturer or importer
of stock medicines to apply to the Agri-
cultural Department for registration.
Formulae of prescriptions must be sup-
plied. A similar bill to cover stock
medicines and foods is in preparation in
N. S. W.
“C.V.S.”: Tasmanian breeders are ob-
jecting to the ruling of the Australian
Meat Board which excludes from com-
petitions fat lambs from ewes contain-
ing no merino blood. Most Australian
fat lambs are grown in conjunction with
wool production, and the rule is sound,
as it guards against wool deterioration,
a real danger when Downs blood is in-
discriminately bred from. This may not
apply to rich-soil Tas. farms, where wool
is of little importance, but elsewhere a
compromise is necessary. The remedy
seems to lie in the formation of a new
class for purebreds, a suggestion which
would have other advantages.


SHEAF STOUT
AT NIGHT.. BRINGS
IN THE MORNING
A glass of Sheaf Stout is the
pleasant way to ensure sound sleep
YOOVMt’S
SHEAF
STOUT
IN BOTTLES, HALF BOTTLES AND BABY BOTTLES


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F REELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers ... You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Jo avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
righ Lß f flection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to oeii or lo Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
used to typing authors’ manuscripts, seeks work.
—475.
Young man, N.S.W., exp. garage work, wants
employment anywhere. Refs.—462.
Gentleman, Sydney, will prepare income-tax
returns, keep books, etc.—4s2.
Capable Japanese teacher is desirous of
obtaining names of students and others in N. S.
Wales who would take lessons in Japanese.—
500.
Youth (22), well grounded in mathematics,
wants apprenticeship under Government-
subsidised scheme in electrical, metal or Diesel-
engine trade; electrical trade preferred. Athletic,
teetotaller and non-smoker. —470.
To buy The Ridge of White Waters, by
Norman Giles. —504.
Jo buy The House of Dr. Edwards, by
Francis Seeding.—sll.
Words of Longfellow’s poem “My Lost
Youth.”—492.
Information Sought.
Names of books discussing the White Aus-
tralia policy? —399.
Arguments for and against are given very
briefly in a couple of debaters’ manuals— Pros
and Cons, by M. I. White, published by George
Routledge, London, and the Art of Debating,
by Baggeridge and Masel, published by Robert-
son and Mullens, Melbourne. A good general
account of the subject is given in the Aus-
tralian Encyclopcedia under the heading of
“Immigration Restriction.” More important
works on the subject are E. W. Foxall’s Color-
phobia: An Exposure of the White Australia
Fallacy, published by R. T. Kelly, Sydney,
1903; P. D. Phillips and G. L. Wood’s Peopling
of Australia, published by the Melb. Uni. Press,
1930; Myra Willard’s History of the White
Australia Policy, published by Melbourne Uni.
Press, 1923; Fleetwood Chidell’s Australia —
White or Yellow, published by Heinemann,
London, 1926; and H. L. Wilkinson’s World
Population Problems, published by King, Lon-
don, 1930.
* * * *
(1) Some of the stars displayed on certain
national flags have five points, others have seven
and nine. Is there any significance attached to
this? (2) Why is it the stars depicted on the
M.L. flag have five points while those of the
Australian Commonwealth flag have seven? —
453.
(1) Generally speaking, no. Nearly every star
appearing on a flag has five points, the chief
exceptions being Irak and Transjordan (seven
points) and the Sultan of Johore’s standard
(nine points). (2) Before 1908, the large star
on the Commonwealth flag was six-pointed to
symbolise the six Australian States. In 1908
the seventh point was added to represent the
Territory of Papua. Maoriland conforms to
the general practice and has five-pointed stars.
* * * *
(1) Which regiments carry colors? (2 ) How
were they evolved ? (3) What was their
object ? (4) When were they last carried in
action ? —5Ol.
(1) Standards are carried by the Household
Cavalry and Dragoon Guards, guidons by
Dragoons. Hussars and Lancers, being formerly
light cavalry, carry neither standards nor guidons.
All infantry regiments, except rifle regiments,
carry two colors, the King’s and the regimental.
(2) Standards and guidons were evolved from
the banners of the knights of the Middle Ages.
(3) To serve as a visible rallying-point on the
battlefield, it being otherwise impossible to dis-
tinguish the leader in the dust and confusion of
battle. (3) At the disaster of Iswandhlwana
(Zulu War of 1879), when Lieuts. Coghill and
Melville gave their lives to save the 24th Regi-
ment’s Queen’s color, which the regiment still
possesses.
* * * *
Will a man and his wife and children receive
benefits under the national insurance scheme,
or will only the worker himself be covered? —
403.
The National Health and Pensions Insurance
Act does not provide for benefits or pensions
for an insured man’s wife or children, except to
the extent that dependent children’s allowances
are complementary with benefits such as sick
and disablement pay, widow’s or old-age pen-
sions. If, however, he dies leaving a widow
and dependent children, a widow’s pension of
12s. 6d. per week (increased after the first five
years the scheme has been in operation to 15s.
per week) and a dependent child’s allowance
of 3s. 6d. per week for each child under the
age of 15 years are payable. It would be
necessary, however, for the insured man to
have been insured at the date of death for
not less than 104 weeks and to have paid not
less than 104 contributions, with an aggregate
of not less than 78 contributions in the three
years preceding date of death, before his widow
would be entitled to the pension. If he were to
die after 26 and less than 104 contributions
had been paid, his widow would be entitled to a
sum of money calculated according to the
number of contributions paid. It is anticipated
that a voluntary scheme of insurance for the
dependent wives and families of insured men
will be introduced at an early date, but the
details of this have not yet been determined.
* * * *
(1) What are the chances for a Queenslander
of getting employment in N.S.W. as an electri-
cal welder? (2) Any difficulties in joining the
union covering the trade ? (3) Has electrical
welding injurious effects on the health, especially
the eyesight? —l7B.
(1) Opportunities for employment are avail-
able. (2) No particular difficulties. The N.S.W.
Boilermakers’ Union admits any qualified trades-
man who is in employment. (3) The Chief
Inspector of Factories, Sydney, reports that
there is a danger of participation in this trade
producing injurious results on the eyesight of
workers. The infra-red rays greatly irritate
the retina when they are intense, and may even,
according to some experts, provoke cataract.
The ultra-violet rays are also harmful, produc-
ing inflammation of the anterior part of the
eye known under the names of “electric oph-
thalmia” and “snow blindness.” Welders
should have their eyes protected against the
action of the ultra-violet and infra-red rays,
and against glare by a screen or by suitable
glasses.
* * * *
We have an old house with brick walls which
sweat and become very damp on the inside in
wet or foggy weather. What can be done to them
to make them dry ? The outside has been covered
with waterproof cement, which seems to turn the
water. Would several coats of paint on the
plaster have any effect? —422.
Before attempting any treatment, it is im-
portant to ascertain the exact cause of the
dampness. As it does not come from the out-
side, examine the following likely causes: Leaks
in gutterings and downpipes, which should be re-
paired; bad ventilation under the house; soak-
age from the ground upwards, necessitating the
insertion of a slate dampcourse in the brick-
work ; condensation from cooking or water-
heating in the house, which can often be cor-
rected by good ventilation in the rooms and
cross-draughts. Sometimes walls which have
absorbed damp over a long period, never really
dry out, and become worse in wet weather.
Before treatment, they should be thoroughly
dried, either by a long spell of dry weather or
by fires; they may then be treated with two
coats of good size, followed by kalsomine or
yvashable paint. A more expensive treatment
is to size the walls twice, cover with a com-
mercial tarpaper, with the black side to the
wall, and finally, when all is dry again, paper
in the usual manner.
=N * * #
When was Halley’s comet last visible from
the earth? —431.
At its last return Halley’s comet was dis-
covered photographically in September, 1909.
W. E. Raymond observed it at Sydney Observa-
tory in November, 1909. It was visible to the
naked eye for some weeks in the first half of
1910. The next return is expected about 1985.
* * * *
(1 ) Nationality of Boccaccio? (2) Race? (3)
Period of his writing? (4) Is it correct to say,
as does one commentator, that his work has
the same relation to Italian as Chaucer’s has
to English literature? (5) What gives his
“Decameron” its permanence ? —267.
(1) and (2) There is uncertainty about Boc-
caccio’s birthplace, but many authorities be-
lieve that he was the illegitimate son of a mer-
chant of Certaldo and a Frenchwoman named
Jeanne, and was born at Paris in the year 1313.
Salvini, Manni and others give his birthplace
as Florence. He is known to have lived as a
young man in Naples and other Italian cities.
(3) Wrote many prose tales, pastorals and poems
in early manhood, but was at the height of his
powers between 1348-58, when he produced
Decameron. (4) and (5) The influence of
Decameron on Italian literature has been pro-
found and lasting. Like Chaucer, Boccaccio
found his plots among the popular fiction of his
day, has consummate narrative skill, and trans-
forms his material with rich poetical senti-
ment. The permanence of the book is partly
due to the fact that it combines the two
great tendencies, the classical and the romantic,
in a manner hardly to be found elsewhere. It
has been an inspiration not only to Italian,
but to French and English writers and poets!
Chaucer, Sidney, Tourneur, Marston, Fletcher,
Shakspeare, Dry den, Keats, Tennyson, Long-
fellow, Swinburne and George Eliot have all
found subjects in the pages of Boccaccio.
* * * *
(1) What are the functions of the Sydney
Chamber of Commerce, and what benefit is
derived from the deliberations of this body?
(2) What power has it to enforce its decisions ?
—393.
(1) Its objects are to promote and protect the
internal and external trade, commerce and
shipping and the manufactures and industries of
N. S. Wales; to consider all questions con-
nected with such; to promote, support or
oppose legislative or other measures affecting
such; to collect and circulate statistics and
other information relating to such; to undertake
the settlement by arbitration of disputes aris-
ing out of such, and/or to act as arbitrator
therein, and to form a code of practice whereby
the transactions of business relating to the afore-
said matters may be simplified and facilitated.
The constitution of the chamber provides for
the formation of sectional committees such as
transport, railway or taxation sections, which
are composed of men with special knowledge of
those particular matters, and from the delibera-
tions of these sections the council of the
chamber is able to obtain first-hand and accu-
rate knowledge of any particular subject, and
based on that information can decide what
action may be desirable in the interests of the
community. (2) The chamber is not a statutory
body, and as such has no powers to enforce its
wishes. It, however, is part of a world-wide
organisation, has generally a high place in
the regard of Government, and its representa-
tions are, therefore, given proper consideration.
* * * *
(1) What is an aneroid barometer, as distinct
from a mercury barometer ? (2) Derivation and
meaning of the word “aneroid” ? (3) Approxi-
mate cost of one? —451.
(1) It consists of a shallow sheet-metal
chamber corrugated in rings and exhausted of
air. The upper surface of this chamber rises
or falls according to the pressure of the atmo-
sphere, this movement being communicated to
an indicating needle by a system of levers.
These instruments are used in aviation, moun-
taineering, etc. The mercury barometer con-
sists of a vertical tube, about 3ft. in length,
the base of which is dipped in a vessel contain-
ing mercury. On account of its great height
its use is confined chiefly to the laboratory. (2)
From the Greek “a” (not) and “neros” (wet).
(3) From 30s.
=? =K *
(1) How to caseharden miners’ drill steel
with potassium or sodium cyanide ? (2) Any
literature dealing with this subject ? —449.
(1) Sodium cyanide, which has been found
superior to potassium cyanide, is heated in a
steel pot to 1580-1740 deg. F., according to re-
quirements. The steel is first thoroughly dried
by warming, and is then placed in the bath
and kept there until the required depth is
obtained, when it is quenched in water. Both
potassium and sodium cyanide are highly poison-
ous even if they only come in contact with
broken skin or scratches, and if the object is
not thoroughly dried before placing it in the
bath a violent explosion will result through
the expansion of the steam formed by the mois-
ture. (2) See the June, 1936, issue of “Heat
Treatment and Forging,” published by Steel
Publications Inc., 108 Smithfield-street, Pitts-
burg, P., U.S.A.
* * * *
(1) Where can I obtain a 2in. diameter lens,
about 28 in. focus, corrected for spherical and
chromatic aberration ? (2) Would it be possible
to regrind a fully-corrected short-focus com-
bination to a longer focal length without up-
setting the correction ? (3) Book dealing with
the testing of reflecting telescopes? —3ll.
(1) From E. Esdaile and Sons, 42 Hunter-
street, Sydney. (2) No, regrinding would upset
the correction, which was based on the original
focal length. (3) Amateur Telescope-making,
published by Scientific American Publishing Co.;
175., from leading booksellers or from Esdaile.
* * * *
(1) How to mix oil and water so that they
remain in this condition? (2) Book on analyti-
cal chemistry, cost, and where obtainable ?
448.
Ordinary oils are not suitable, and a special
type, known as “soluble” oil, must be em-
ployed. These oils are sold in various grades,
each one of which has its own particular uses.
Full details may be obtained from Shell Co.
of Australia, Ltd., Shell House, Carrington-
street, Sydney. (2) A Manual of Chemical
Analysis, by G. S. Newth (Longmans, Green
and Co.); Practical Chemistry, by R. K.
Murphy (Oxford University Press), may also be
of assistance. Prices are 14s. 9d. and 2s. 3d.
respectively, from Dymock’s, Sydney.
* * * *
Is gastric' ulcer curable? Treatment? What
part does molasses take in treatment of this
complaint ? —367.
Often curable if subjected to proper treat-
ment at the outset. Diet is very important in
acute cases, and consists largely of milk, prefer-
ably citrated, as a beginning, and followed later
by beaten-up eggs, custards, jellies, Benger’s
food and boiled rice. With further improve-
ment, lightly-cooked eggs, minced fish or
chicken may be given, as well as liberal allow-
ances of cream. The drugs employed are small
doses of the bicarbonate of soda and the car-
bonates of bismuth and magnesia. Tobacco
should be interdicted except in strict modera-
tion. In chronic cases of long standing, surgi-
cal operation is often the only method of treat-
ment, the object being to short-circuit that por-
tion of the stomach wall which is ulcerated.
Molasses plays no important part in treatment.
* * * *
(1) What is ammoniated tincture of quinine ?
(2) How prepared? —49B.
(1) A mixture of sulphate of quinine, alco-
hol and a solution of ammonia in water. (2)
To prepare, mix two parts of sulphate of
quinine with 90 parts of alcohol (60 p.c.). Add
10 parts of solution of ammonia. The quinine
precipitates on adding to water, but is suspended
by the addition of a few grains of tragacanth.
The addition of syrup of orange makes the
preparation more palatable. Should be kept
in darkness to avoid loss of color.
* * * *
(1) Some details of the complaint known as
cystitis? (2) Can it be cured? —412.
(1) Cystitis signifies an inflammation of the
wall of the urinary bladder. It may be either
acute or chronic in nature. The causes are
many. The complaint may be asociated with
venereal disease, with inflammatory conditions
of the kidneys, with prostatic enlargement,
with pelvic disorders of women, with disease
of the spinal cord, etc. (2) Cases of the acute
type are frequently cured by the use of irriga-
tions, various urinary antiseptics and vaccine
therapy. The cure of the chronic varieties de-
pends upon adequate treatment of the under-
lying cause.
* * * #
(1) Are there non-electric clothes-pressing
machines on the market, and, if so, how are
they driven ? (2) Where obtainable, and in what
sizes? (3) Cost? —461.
(1) Yes; both foot-operated machines and
machines operated by compressed air are avail-
able. In both types the heating medium is
steam supplied from a small boiler employing
gas or coal fuel. (2) From Capron Carter,
Ltd., 86 Liverpool-street, Sydney; available in
lengths varying from 18in. to 50in. (3) £l5O
to £2OO.
(1) Is charcoal necessary when repotting
make 'it?—so3 HOW ° Suburban gardener
. (1) Yes, charcoal should be included in pot-
ting compost; its value is that it keeps the
soil pure and assists drainage. (2) Put twigs of
shrubs and plants in a tin (in which holes have
been made) and place it in a stove for a couple
of hours or until the wood is carbonised. Next
day break the charred wood into small pieces
and mix with the soil. The charcoal will retain
its food value for at least 12 months.
Brief Answers.
G.K.: Monty Noble, the ex-international
cricket captain, was born on January 28, 1873,
and first played for N.S.W. in 1896-97 N. 8.:
In 1926 King George V., on the recommenda-
tion of the Home Secretary, authorised the
issue of a badge to be worn on the left side
of the coat by Knights Bachelor. Hitherto
Knights Bachelor had received no insignia of
their rank... .5.R.8.: Get in touch with any of
the patent attorneys advertising in the “Wild Cat”
pages of The Bulletin C. 8.: Write W. H.
Paling and Co., 338 George-street, Sydney....
D.C.M.: Study the shipping and advertising
columns of the daily newspapers and canvass
companies M.L.L.: Mitchell Library, Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney, may be able to assist.
. ...K.D.F.: Symptoms not sufficiently de-
scribed for diagnosis L.W.8.: Try the
“Photoplayer,” 103 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
. ...W.T.R.: Harold Williams, 16 Kenton
Court, Harrow, Middlesex, England; Horace
Stevens, 8 Wembley Court, Toorak-road,
South Yarra, Victoria; Peter Dawson, c/o
Midland Bank, Ealing Common, London,
W.5....G.D.: (1) The area of Liechtenstein is
65 square miles; population, of German origin,
10,213. (2) The population is in great part
agricultural, the chief products of the country
being corn, wine, fruit, wood and marble.
The industries are cotton-weaving and cotton-
spinning, leather goods and pottery. The rear-
ing of cattle, for which the fine alpine pastures
are well suited, is highly developed G.T.:
Permit mail fee applies to printed circulars
signed by hand or personally addressed, posted
in sealed envelopes. Printed matter rates (Id.
per 40z.), plus for each article, cover this
section... .J.C.D.: The Australian and N.Z.
Ski Year-Book, 1938, obtainable from N.S.W.
Ski Council, Box 50CC, G.P.0., Sydney....
T.S.: Bjelke-Petersen Bros., Market and Castle-
reagh streets, Sydney 5.8.: Get in touch
with any of the following: Burns, Philp and
Co., 7 Bridge-street, W. R. Carpenter and Co.,
19 O’Connell-street, New Guinea Goldfields,
67 York-street, and Bulolo Gold Dredging, Ltd.,
Wingello House, Angel-place—all Sydney;
Steamship Trading Co. and British New Guinea
Trading Co., Ltd. —both Port Moresby, Papua;
and British Phosphate Commissioners, Henty
House, Little Collins-street, Melbourne
C.V.8.: Write Director, National Art Gallery
of N.S.W., the Domain, Sydney E.M.:
There are no special schools which supply
entrants to the Royal Military College, Dun-
troon. Entry to this college is very similar
to that for a university. Provided an appli-
cant reaches the required medical and edu-
cational standards, which can be ascertained
from the military headquarters in each State,
the school at which he has been educated is
not of importance. No detailed record is kept
of the schools which provide entrants each year.
.... D.Y.F.: (1), (2), (3) and (4) No registration
of the names given to private residences is re-
quired. The name Anzac is not barred for a
private residence. (5) A permanent building
would have to be approved by the local council,
but a temporary shelter during building would
not, probably, be objected to, but see In-
spector of Nuisances P.M.C.: No; the
deposit was in part-payment for the articles
already received D.C.: There is a brief
history of Cobbitty in the Royal Australian
Historical Society’s “Journal,” vol. XXII, p.
342 and p. 338. Also in vol. XIV, p. 362,
there is an article on Heber Chapel, Cobbitty.
.... J.R.P.: (1) Education should be to the
leaving certificate or to the matriculation stan-
dard. (2) Amount of premium varies. In
States where there are recognised schools of
architecture it is not customary for any premium
to be paid, the system of training by architects
being virtually obsolete. (3) There is no age
limit... .A.C.: (1) The originator of Cash’s
woven names was a J. Cash who lived about
200 years ago. (2) The process of weaving the
names is not patented. (3) Australian agents
of the firm are J. and J. Cash Australian
Weaving Co., Callaghan House, 393 George-
street, Sydney H.H.H.: The funds are being
made available by the Rural Industries Agency
of the Rural Bank of N. S. Wales. Communi-
cate with the agency J.T.: The Orvieto
sailed to Australia on her second voyage in
1910, leaving Tilbury on March 18, 1910, and
arriving in Sydney on April 29 G.L.: The
correct way to sharpen an auger for boring
wood is on the top side of the main cutting
edges and the inner side of the side cutters....
R.M.: (1) “Aircraft,” 62-74 Flinders-street,
Melbourne, C.l. (2) 10s. per inch minimum.
P.M.: Selfridge and Co., Oxford-street,
London, W.l J.T.: Write Hemingway and
Robertson, Barrack House, 16 Barrack-street,
Sydney T.R.M.: Write either Osborne and
Chappel, Station-road, Ipoh, or Anglo-Oriental
(Malaya), Ltd., 2-8 Java-street, Kuala Lumpur
—both Federated Malay States... .J.F.C.: No
knowledge of any method of preserving worms
for bait. The following procedure is, how-
ever, frequently adopted to preserve prawns
for this purpose. Dissolve one heaped teaspoon
of salt mixed with three teaspoons of brown
sugar in a cup of water. Remove the heads
from two quarts of prawns and place in this
solution in a fruit-preserving jar fitted with a
rubber ring... .P.S.: Add a little turpentine,
let stand all night, then work together again
with a stick, adding more turpentine if neces-
sary. Can sometimes be formed into a block
again by melting gently over a closed fire and
stirring in a little turps before setting; very
inflammable,...A.D.: (1) No difference. (2)
The public could not be supplied with liquor
legally. (3) Breweries are licensed only to
make beer; they cannot supply it direct to the
PUDIIC.


“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
A “Bulletin” production
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
The Phantom—Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Rooks.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
HI
kSSR
it
>\
llou can depend on
CHAMPION 3S
"A for SAFETY
Many accidents are avoided by
cars that can dart out of danger-
ous situations. Keep your car
alert. Install new Champions at
regular intervals and enjoy the
safety and pleasure of quick ac-
celeration, abundant power and
speed. Champions pay for them-
selves in the fuel they save.
An Empire product—made in Windsor. Can.
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
Jenolan Caves for
f ■• i ' . >. •• . '
the School Vacation —
Take the children to see
the Wonderful Caves, the
Birds and the Animals of
the Jenolan Sanctuary.
Children’s rates are
applicable to daily tours
from Sydney, and there
is a specially reduced
tariff at Jenolan Caves
House.
Ask for Free Pictorial
Folder and Booklet “All
About Jenolan Caves,’’
sent post free.
Full Information and
Booking at
N.S.W. Government Tourist Bureau
Challis House, 8 Martin Place, Sydney.
Branch Office at Wynyard Station .
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
R.L.: Not here, but you should unload it
elsewhere... .R.J.P.: You’ve a great deal to
learn D.C.: Better suited to a daily
D. : Very nearly... .R.H.: Uncle Ezra’s
a little stodgy... .M.D.: Another of the un-
funny curate school... .C.W.S.: Obvious....
E. Yours, t 00... .G.H.H. (Derbyshire):
Don’t like women whose only companions are
pet cobras V.C.S.: Like “the backwash of
Hong Kong” a little less bloody G.H.E.:
Read to where the ink-spot started to speak
and then went out for a noggin J.M.:
Think not... .A.V.H.: No time for “those
rather eerie crimes committed by the savage
inner self of a normally temperate person”
J.F.H.: Pity Frank didn’t realise it
H.R.S.N.: Doesn’t get anywhere... .D.A.C.:
Not up H.M.8.: Labored 8.0’R.:
Flapper fodder... .J.R.: No laughs in that lot.
F.S.: Thin... .E.W.: Can’t let those two
old cronies rest here... .H.S.R.: Well done,
but we don’t want gloom in our stories
R.T.M.: Send Letitia Jane to a flapper magazine.
... .R.J.0.: Sacked the 10t.... J.R.T.: Com-
monplace. ...W.M.M.: Off our beat... .R.C.:
Might make a par....V.F.: Childish
R.E.C.: Misses.... R.McK.: Skittled....
F. : “Concussion” case needs a doctor....
A.S.M.: Forced rhymes this time M.K.:
Verse, too, is “battling way up north”
G. : Dead cat at rest... .K.W.: Weaklings.
T.L.S.: Pale, but it shows a glimmer
E.E.: Prosy 0.5.: Tore our hair at
“Honor’s shattered locks”... .J.McK.: The
right road... .M.P.: John wouldn’t be happy
here... .P.F.D.: Excellent moral in execrable
verse... .G. 0.: Thin... .R.C.8.: Not up....
A.F.: You might place it elsewhere S.H.:
People don’t talk like that....J.McL.: Try it
with a book publisher or women’s magazine.
W.J.: Not for us... .R.B.McK.: Not
enough meat on those sucking pigs D.A.
(Missouri): Australian rights of story first pub-
lished in “Sweetheart Stories” regretfully declined.
. ...E.F.C.: Dodging “Fatal Allure” J.S.:
Hopeless, really J.C.M.: No cash for those
jewels A.O’F.: Sorry for the girl whose
hands were like sprays of fern F.S.: Not
that batch D.A.S.: Got our tame baboon to
usher that umbrella-waving female off the
premises H.G.W.: “Afternoon Tea” too
weak and stone c01d... .M.T.: Not here you
can’t “send echoes of song reverberating down
city streets” G.J.: The tobacco-chewing
tramguard is in need of a bath E.F.: Away
with “this pipe dream, this inspired ideal, this
poem in prose” C.S.M.: Afraid not
E.0.D.: Another borderliner... .T.E.G.: You’re
not getting any nearer... .J.R.G.: Of course
you’re right, but give it to the girl herself....
N. 8.: Began well, but you were struggling be-
fore the second page... .8.H.8.: Nothing new
in Daisy.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.J.: You’ve streamlined your cockles too
much... .W.D.: We’ve sighted that amorous
fireman jumping from that window before....
E.L.: Drawings possess slight merit; gags are
hopelessly old-fashioned H.R.: If it ever
had a point the postman must have mislaid it.
G.F.: Figures look like a couple of strays
from a nineteenth-century waxworks... .H.8.L.:
Anything but a straight fine is beyond y0u....
N.K.: Send it to a temperance journal....
P.G.: You need to unlearn a lot J.T.: Gags
requiring three questions and three answers
before they reach the point are no use here.
A.W.: Promising; pay more attention to
posing R. 8.: Shadows fall in the wrong
direction D. 8.: Shaping figures out of
squares and rectangles won’t carry you far
H.F.: Half-dressed curate on antheap is a
variation of a much-exploited theme G.C.:
Why crowd half a dozen people into a picture
when two would have sufficed? J.M.: Ideas
are muddled H.W.: You might make an
excellent builder of snowmen, but you’re no
artist 8.W.: One-legged ghost is now caus-
ing terror to the other occupants of the w.p.b.
... .L.T.: This week’s most cheerless effort
M. 8.: Linework too hesitant P.Q.: Scratchy
style, and the jest is a tenth-rate pun
L.S.: Gags need to be brighter M.K.: Race-
horse looks like a retired Clydesdale, and the
rider like a stone cherub from a suburban
front lawn M.F.S.: You’ve a long way to
go before you’ll even get within coo-ee of the
front-rankers W.G.: Not dipping into our
pockets for the Zulu you’ve tried to pass off
as an abo.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Future of commodity prices? Lord
Hirst speaking, at the A.G.E.’s annual
meeting in London: —
The armament programme brought up in
the minds of people the fear of shortage,
and they rushed to buy stocks of raw
materials and finished products beyond their
requirements. Part of the recession talked
of this year is due to a temporary lull re-
quired to absorb the surplus stock. I have
gained the impression during the last three
or four weeks that many of the shelves
now require replenishing. Under these con-
ditions I see no excuse for pessimism.
There is a good deal of logic in the state-
ment. Prices went too high at the be-
ginning of 1937, and it was natural that
they should go too low. Some people,
however, still have a fear that currency
problems will have a depressing effect on
prices.
* * * *
Arthur Griffith: It is a vast pity that,
... . . . 3 ’
while slandering an individual can be
punished by law, slander of a whole
people can be indulged in with impunity,
Lancelot Hogbin in his book Half-Caste
(advocating the fusion of the white and
... £ ,
colored peoples of the world) quotes
Australia as a standing example of the
efficacy of this idea,
In Australia where more than 90 per
cent - °f the population ignorantly claims
P ure British descent black and yellow
“poisons” have circulated extensively. The
majority of Australians are unmistakably
branded by the sign of miscegenation: the
taller stature, the elongated face, the dark
pigmentation, which is becoming increas-
ingly darker.
This means that the whole of the people
G f t h e Commonwealth carry the smear
of the tar . bmsh . A S a matter of fact,
there is hardly a nation in the world of
as p Ure Caucasian type. Latest statistics
sbow that our half- and quarter-castes
ag g re g a te less than .005 of our popula-
tjon
* * * *
From an old fellow-traveller:
Harry Batterbee, who goes to Maoriland
“**“ High Commissioner, is a tall, dark,
rather blase-looking Englishman with a quiet
drawl and a concentrated energy. I met him
when he was political secretary to the admiral
on the Atlantic Fleet’s world tour. The naval
men looked at him askance when he came
f board ’ bu i a few A we t k a mad i him , an a l most
legendary figure. Anybody with a difficulty or
a social problem could always get it settled for
him by Batterbee, and at handling newspaper-
men he was about the world’s best. Later on
he had charge of all the preliminary details for
the tour of the present King and Queen when
they came to Australia. If he doesn’t make
good in Maoriland I shall be astonished.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: There is a big contrast be-
tween the careers of Dr. Sunderland,
appointed to the anatomy chair at Mel-
bourne University, and that of Wood-
Jones, the previous occupant. Still in the
twenties, Sunderland has a high reputation
for scholarship, and is a member of vari-
ous international societies. At the same age
Wood-Jones was knocking about Asiatic
waters in cable-repair ships or lancing
the sores of cable operators on Cocos
Island, and in between was brooding on
coral formations and the habits of the
spectral tarsius of Borneo. When many
years later his book on the coral insect
and another on the link between man and
the lower animals appeared, his name
was practically unknown in scientific
circles.
* * * *
“K.”: Mrs. Alec Tweedie, who is a
noted writer and has published several
books on her travels, popped in and out of
Australia about 18 months ago. When she
arrived in Sydney her bathroom was filled
with W.A. wildflowers, which she was
nursing as a mother might a young baby.
She was intent on keeping them alive till
she had painted them. When she came
to Sydney she did some sketches up the
Mountains. The result was a show in
London, where the flower-pieces sold
rapidly. Mrs. Alec has now given two
of these flower pictures to Australia.


mm
m
m
0
BETTER
hoi
T
«
0
kV*
Sf-
f?si
One Owner Who Has Bought No
Less Than NINE
MODEL“M”TRACTORS
Reports: Exceedingly economical on fuel, averaging
under 1 gai. per working hour. Remarkably free from
Breakdown or any Mechanical Troubles. Always on
the job and No Time Lost.
THE IDEAL TRACTOR FOR
TANK or DAM SINKING.
Headquarters
- House -
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
NQ-Branch
* STURTS!
TOWNSVIIIE
ENGINEERING Supply c«?cE AUSTRALIA L TD
POWER
Ai\d
M©
STILL
7k
mamssk
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCallum, Ltd., 96 Murray Street,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 58-62 Hinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
aw SYDNEY.
Moody & Company, 15 ; Gpulbnrn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Elphinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA 1 W. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
XXIII.
The lettei was written on U.S. Army
paper, and addressed to “Dear pal
Terry.” Mac Sherry looked at the signa-
ture before he began taking in the eight
closely-written pages; it was signed
“Doughboy Rafferty (Eddie to you).”
Rafferty had left Australia needing an
operation, and must have gone under the
ether and the knife before he joined up.
Good boy, Eddie! Most generous of
fellows and one of the greatest of middle-
weights, though not so great as Durkin.
He had made plenty of money during
the boom in Australia ; but, like Carrie,
he had gambled it all away.
Yes, 12 months of punting, cards and
dice had taken the lot. When he signed
up for his last fight in Australia —it was
with Albert Jones —Rafferty was reduced
to backing himself with his share of the
“gate.” Because of his physical dis-
ability, he really shouldn’t have gone into
the ring ; but, as he confided to Terry,
he had to fight because he was broke, and
it wasn’t in his nature- to duck through
the ropes without having something on
himself.
That night he showed all the old Raf-
ferty skill and precision of punch, but
not the old Rafferty force. He was in
bad shape, and after a few rounds every
blow he landed hurt him more than it
hurt the enemy. So, although he knocked
Jones over two or three times with the
left hook which only Durkin had mas-
tered, the younger man, who was
superbly fit, scrambled up each time and
sailed in again. During the last 10 rounds
of 20, Rafferty could do little. Forcing
all the time, and finishing strong, Jones
got the decision. ,
Then, for the first time in Australia,
Rafferty showed temper. He thought he
had won, and he realised that the ver-
dict for Jones had left him without a cent
in the world ; and his emotions over-
whelmed him. But only momentarily.
He advanced to the ropes with both
gloved hands raised above his head, thus
silencing the noisy crowd. “Sports,” he
said, “I reckon it was my fight, but I
should have been a good loser. Sorry 1
look it so bad.” Then, going to his
opponent’s corner, he patted that warrior
on the back, saying, “Good luck to you,
Jones —go straight and you’ll do well.”
And before he left the Coliseum he asked
Terry to convey his apologies to the
management.
Yes, Rafferty was a real man. Intelli-
gent, too. He might have done well for
himself in some profession *if he hadn’t
been a born fighter.
“Dear pal Terry,” the letter ran. “Well,
here I am in the United States Army and
about to go wandering again. To France
this time. Before you get this I expect
to be Over There.
“Nearly all the pugs are in the Army,
the Navy or the Flying Corps. All, per-
haps, except Jack Johnson and Jack
Dempsey. Johnson is God knows where.
Dempsey, I hear, is a Deep Thinker, as
you say in good old Aussie.
“They tell us the war will last all next
year and well into 1920, but I can’t see
how the Germans are going to stand up
against all the soldiers we are sending
across the Atlantic. There are millions
of us in camp, and the ships we are
building—wooden ones, mostly—and the
guns and munitions we are turning out!
“All the factories have been placed on
a war basis. The Government has taken
over all the railways, and all the in-
ventors have been mobilised, as they call
it —and you know, Terry, we have some
dandy inventors in these United States.
“And they have done wonders already.
They have invented what is known as
the Liberty motor, and they are fitting it
into 22,000 airplanes. Twenty-two thou-
sand —yes, sir. And with those airplanes,
Terry, they are going to darken the skies
and carry destruction to the heart of
Germany.
“I ain’t kidding you, Terry. What I
just wrote is what all our public men are
saying Secretary Baker especially.
Those Liberty motors are going to do
the trick.
“And the dollars this country is raising
to pay for them and for everything
else! So far there have been three
Liberty loans, and they have all been
oversubscribed. The figures would
knock you all of a heap—53,035,226,850
in June, 1917; $4,617,532,300 in Octo-
ber, 1917; and $4,176,516,850 in May
of this year. How do I know? They
tell us all these things in camp and ask
us to spread the news.
“They are taking no chances with the
Enemy In Our Midst. Victor Berger,
one of our Congressmen from Wiscon-
sin, has been arrested for disloyalty and
sent to the penitentiary. Big Bill Hay-
wood —you must have heard of him —
and 96 other I.W.W. leaders were con-
victed, like Berger, and sentenced in the
same court. It has got to be done,
Terry, for they have been throwing
emery dust in the machinery, and putting
bombs in munition factories, and things
like that. There are 4,000,000 enemy
aliens in this republic ; and the women
are as bad as the men.
“And we have got to guard our Presi-
dent. Sixty-five aliens have been arrested
for threatening his life. He is a wonder-
ful man, this President, Terry, and loyal
people are daffy about him. The only
thing for which he is blamed is not
letting Teddy Roosevelt take his Rough
Riders to France.
“In case you haven’t read them in
Australia, I am sending a copy of the
President’s Fourteen Points. All the
Doughboys think they are marvellous.
“Did you hear that some of our fel-
lows fought alongside, the Australians
at Hamel on the Fourth of July? Our
newspapers were full of it. There was
a piece in one of our Oshkosh papers ;
it said, ‘The Australians, who are notori-
ous for not being too gentle in their
methods, say that Americans are good
soldiers, but a bit rough.’
“Just as well you were not at the
Coliseum when I called to say good-bye
or I might have relieved you of $5O.
However, pal Terry, you would have got
it back. I won that and the transpor-
tation money Joe Wongie lent me play-
ing craps aboard the Mariposa Lily, and
I was out of pal Joe’s debt as soon as
I could arrange a remittance.
“I should like to return to Australia
some day, but it’s France first, and then
England if I come through. I am in
the pink again, and there ought to be a
fight or two left in me if the enemy don’t
get in first with a bullet or a shell.”
Rafferty reached France in time to see
a bit of fighting in the Argonne, but he
never saw any of those “22,000 air-
planes” that were to have “darkened the
skies.” Not one ever went into action.
All the American airmen who dropped
bombs and fired machine-guns sat in
French and British ’planes ; and on land
the American armies fired French and
British guns and used British tanks.
Rafferty came out unwounded and was
next heard of boxing at the Allied Games
in Paris. Still a middleweight, he was
pitted against the British heavyweight
champion and was beaten on points.
Afterwards he crossed the Channel, and,
there being now another British heavy-
weight champion, Eddie tackled him.
Again he was overcome by a younger
and more powerful man, and, returning
to the U.S.A., he passed out of the Game
and out of Terry’s ken.
Mac Sherry kept the letter and the
newspaper cuttings, and long afterwards
he read them again and pondered on the
Fourteen Points.
Open covenants of peace, openly arrived
at, after which there shall be no private
international understanding of any kind,
but diplomacy shall proceed always frankly
and in the public view.
Absolute freedom of navigation upon
the seas....
The removal as far as possible of all
economic barriers and the establishment of
aft equality of trade conditions among all
the nations consenting to the peace and
associating themselves for its maintenance.
Adequate guarantees given and taken
that national arrhaments will be reduced to
the lowest point consistent with domestic
safety.
A free, open-minded and absolutely im-
partial adjustment of all colonial claims.
Montenegro should be evacuated ; Serbia
accorded free and secure access to the
sea, and the Dardanelles permanently
opened as a free passage to the ships and
commerce of all nations under inter-
national guarantees.
A general association of nations must be
formed under specific covenants for the
purpose of affording mutual guarantees
of political independence and territorial
integrity to great and small States alike.
The poor, paralysed, broken 28th
President! “It is as a prophet he should
be regarded,” somebody wrote when he
was still “king of all the world”; and
the prophet was stoned. And Lloyd
George and Clemenceau, themselves
laden with spoils, offered him the man-
date over Armenia!
Still, he had his hour and his dream.
(To be continued.)


&
When
a Woman
tells you:
that people often take
her for years
younger than she
is owing to her
white teeth,
that she’s used no-
thing but Calvert's
since she left
school—
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth 1
O
<&77c fo2
1
lit
-.>o°
SSSS*
m
I
1
&
8
The Canadian
Australasian route to
Europe blends delight-
fully the vibrant,
youthful vitality of
Canada and the lan-
guid, unspoiled charm
of the South Sea
Islands.
Monthly sailings
via New Zealand,
Fiji, Hawaii and
Canada.
For full information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.),
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Safe into Harbour...
150 years ago Captain Phillip brought his ships safely into
harbour, to found our Nation. Only clear imaginative vision,
sincere and practical forward planning and honest sustained
effort could have brought so brave an adventure to success-
ful conclusion.
You, too, have a great adventure to plan, the adventure
of life; and to it you must bring much of the spirit of those
great pioneers, if the ship of your dreams is to come safely
to harbour.
Plan with a savings account, the most convenient aid to
material progress. Free, helpful and sound Savings Bank
service is available to you, wherever you may live in
Australia.
At! K
6 fIU I n G S
Of AUSTRALIA
r
s
%
PIONEERS of BEER
BY J.H.M. ABBOTT.
NEARLY eighty million gallons of
beer are brewed every year in
Australia, so it may be presumed
that beer-drinking has become as
much a habit with many Australians as
eating breakfast. Some of them may
shudder when they learn that this country
actually existed as a British possession
for seven long and dreary years before
any beer was brewed within it.
Whilst the first white inhabitants almost
literally swam in rum—paid in it, and
shopped with it, besides swallowing it—
there wasn’t a pot of beer to be had any-
where, unless it might be from the stale
"Ha! Yours turn up in the front.”
dregs out of barrels that had made a
voyage of about 12,000 miles as part of
a ship’s stores.
Let us consider with proper respect the
pioneers of Australian beer.
Soon after his arrival as Governor of
N.S.W., Captain John Hunter, R.N., en-
tertained several ladies and gentlemen of
Sydney by taking them for a water-picnic
to Parramatta, and on the way up the
harbor the excursionists landed a little
way above the present railway bridge at
Ryde, where they had lunch. Tradition
has it that while his Excellency sub-
sequently dozed with his back against a
tree one of his fair guests won a pair
of gloves by kissing him, so he name
the place “Kissing Point,
Thirty acres thereabout was granted
to James Squire. It is this gentleman
who should receive the homage of pos-
terity as the original pioneer of beer
in Australia, for in 1795 he brewed there
the first of it ever produced in this coun-
try. It was made from maize, with im-
ported hops or horehound.
In 1812 Squire grew a crop of hops,
and in 1819 he was able to describe him-
self as having held a brewer’s license from
the Government for many years. Whether
his brew was a good one or not seems to
have been a matter of opinion, for on
a tombstone in old St. John’s church-
yard at Parramatta are inscribed a couple
of lines which hint that there were doubts
on the subject:
“Ye who wish to be here
Drink Squire’s beer.”
However, Squire made beer popular,
and in order to combat the evils of the
universal drinking of bad and costly
rum —it was retailed at 10s. a bottle
Governor King established a Government
brewery at Parramatta in 1803, which is
recorded as still going strong in 1806,
though it did not function very much
longer.
But beer had come to stay. In 1827
Thomas Farnell ran a brewery —possibly
as Squire’s successor —at Kissing Point,
and five years later there were four
others going in Sydney. Charles Bones
was licensed for the Union Brewery at
33 Pitt-street; John Terry Hughes for
the Albion in Elizabeth-street, and James
Wright for the Australian in Castlereagh-
street; whilst Thomas Cadell ran the
Hawkesbury Brewery at Windsor.
Although Governor Macquarie encour-
aged Squire in the good work of hop
cultivation by presenting him with a
cow, it never became any sort of an
institution in New South Wales, and
gradually died out.
“J.H.M.A.”: A hundred years ago the
stocks and the treadmill were still familiar
to Sydney people, and sentences to both
were ordinary police-court routine —the
former for “drunks,” “the mill” for
delinquents with convict records. In
the “Sydney Herald” of August 3, 1838,
M. R. Merton, Superintendent of Carter’s
Barracks, where the treadmill operated,
advertised that, its machinery having been
recently overhauled, he was prepared to
grind wheat into 30, 20 or 10 p.c. meal at
the rate of Is. per 1001 b., and that grinding
without dressing could be done for 9d.
Maize would be dealt with at the same
rate. The treadmill, worked by con-
vict labor, must have been more than a
trifling grievance to the millers who did
grinding by means of picturesque wind-
mills on the crest of “the Rocks” and on
the heights of Woolloomooloo Bay, just
beginning to be known as Darlinghurst.
* He * '*
“Western”: A palm that undoubtedly
would have established itself on this con-
tinent had its seed been capable of ocean-
travel is the date. Anywhere from Perth
northward on the western coast it will
flourish and produce fruit. And it is
doubtful if there is a more delicious
berry than a ripe date straight off the
palm. The stones germinate readily, but
the seedling is credited with requiring 25
years to reach fruit-bearing. Two sexes
also are needed. These, however, will
both string from the one handful of
stones —as is shown on several nor’-west
stations where long ago someone with
faith planted a few and to-day there
flourishes a grove of palms. Along the
Fitzroy Valley, periodically flooded and
never absolutely parched, is the place
where date palms should even now be
laying the foundations of a solid Aus-
tralian industry.
COULD NOT KEEP
FOOD DOWN
Drugs Proved Useless
for His Indigestion
For eight years now this man has enjoyed
perfect health, yet at one time he had become
a physical wreck through indigestion. Read
how this remarkable change was brought
about:
“Ten years ago, I was a physical wreck with
gastric indigestion. Aftfer taking treatment
which included numerous drugs without obtain-
ing relief, I got into a hopeless state. It was
so bad I could not keep food down. Finally
I tried Kruschen Salts, and for eight years now
I have enjoyed a state of perfect health. I
am supervisor in a world-famous motor works,
and though I am 65, I pass for 50.” E.T.
Kruschen is a combination of six salts, each
of which has an action of its own. The first
effect of these salts is to promote the flow of
saliva and so awaken the appetite. The next
action occurs in the stomach, where the diges-
tive juices are encouraged to pour out and act
correctly upon the food. Again, in the intestinal
tract, certain of these salts promote a further
flow of those vital juices which deal with
partly digested food.


BUSH CONVERT
by KATHLEEN ELLIS
DRAWING BY SHELLEY.
GWADBU lay on his fat belly on the ant-bed
floor of the corrugated-iron building in which
he had been locked and put his eye to a nail-
hole through which was streaming a ray of
bright, friendly sunshine He could see the small
white buildings of the mission station, squarely fac-
ing the straight squared paths lined with coconut-
palms. Everything was neat, bare and inordinately
clehn. Though not a mission boy, Gwadbu had visited
the mission with the bush blacks at Christmas-time,
and he knew what each building was for.
On one side of the compound he could just see,
by pressing his eye close to the hole, the dispensary
where the “poor pfeller sick pfeller” were given medi-
cine and had their wounds and sores “tied up longa
rag.” A little further along was the maternity ward,
empty now, but clean, white, cold and fearsome.
Gwadbu shuddered involuntarily; he was thankful
that he had not been born a lubra. Next was the little-
f girls’ dormitory with its barred windows and heavy
door from which hung a padlock ready to shut the
girls in for the night. A little further along was the
big-girls’ dormitory, also with barred windows and
padlocked door.
Gwadbu shifted his position slightly so that he
could see straight along the compound. There was
the church with its tall bamboo steeple. Gwadbu had
been into the church once, but he was afraid of it.
It was so huge after the paper-bark mia mias „ and
bough shelters he was used to. And the hard con-
crete floor, like stone, reminded him of the sacred
cave in which the tribe hid the bones of dead war-
riors. Everyone looked so stern and unhappy when
in church, and the big box they called an organ sang
like the wailing of the north-west monsoon or the
angry waves beating on the shore.
Gwadbu did not like looking at the church ; he
quickly moved his position and looked to the right
of the compound. Now he could see the little-boys’
dormitory, the big-boys’ dormitory and the soup
kitchen. Behind them, peeping through palms and
banana-trees, as if keeping an eye on the kitchen, was
the mission house where lived the superintendent and
his wife. There was .another building almost Out of
sight. Gwadbu flattened his face against the hot iron
and turned his eyes as far as possible. Yes ; there
it was! A white galvanised-iron building where Miss
Batchelor, the schoolteacher, lived all alone.
The sun was very hot this afternoon; shining
through the hole in the iron it hurt Gwadbu’s eye and
made him blink. He moved from his peephole,
turned over and sat crosslegged on the floor. He was
glad that he had been able to see Miss Batchelor’s
room. Not that he was fond of her —far from it.
Like all the other bush blacks and mission boys he
was very much afraid of her. ..But there was admira-
tion mixed with the fear. She was so strong, so stern,
so fearless.
Gwadbu grinned ruefully as he thought how only
that morning she had caught him stealing pawpaws
from the mission garden. He, Gwadbu, who had
already passed the first stages of initiation and would
soon become a fully-initiated warrior! He looked
proudly at the newly-healed scars that crossed his
chest, the burns on his arms and feet. He had not
flinched or whimpered when the stone knife cut
deeply into living flesh ; he had walked without fal-
tering on the red-hot coals of the initiation fire ihe
old men had called him “strongheart” “Bull-bull
derit-derit.” But this morning his heart had turned to
water. As though he were a piccaninny Miss
Batchelor had chased and caught him, boxed his ears
till they sang like mosquitoes and locked him up in
this dark building. She was very strong, like a man,
and was afraid of nothing.
WADBU crossed to the back of the building and
hunted for a nail-hole in the opposite wall. There
was no hole low down ; he had to stand on his toes
to look out of the only one he could find.
There was the mission garden green with vege-
tables and fringed with fruit-trees. Gwadbu’s mouth
watered at the yellow clusters of bananas and paw-
paws, the juicy black mulberries, the oranges, mangoes
and custard-apples. But they were for the mis-
sionaries. Only at Christmas-time or on very special
occasions did the mission blacks taste them. Of
course, sometimes they were able to steal them, but
not often ; the garden was out of bounds, and a mis-
sionary or native teacher was always on guard when
the boys worked in the garden.
Beyond the garden was the wide, sluggish river.,
And across the river lay the deep forest and the bush-
blacks’ camp where Gwadbu belonged. Gwadbu
sniffed burning gum-leaves and thought longingly of
roasted emu, of yams and lily-roots baked in the ashes,
of mussels and billabong crabs —all more satisfying
than the tin of thin vegetable soup he had been given
for dinner.
The padlocked door rattled and creaked as some-
one opened it. Gwadbu was sitting on the floor as
though he had not moved when the caller entered.
It was not Miss Batchelor, but one of the native
teachers. Gwadbu sighed with relief.
The teacher carefully locked the door after him
and came to sit crosslegged in front of the prisoner.
“What for you bin stealum pawpaw?” he asked.
“Me hungry pfeller too much belonga fruit.”
“You savee only wicked pfeller steal?”
“1 no more tink allabout catchum me.”
“But him wicked even if allabout no more
catchum you.”
“No more!” exclaimed Gwadbu incredulously.
“Allabout wicked pfeller longa bush,” continued
the teacher. “More better you sit down longa mis-
sion.”
Gwadbu shook his head. “By-an’-bye medicine-
man point death-bones and sing me dead-pfeller sup-
posin’ me no more finishum corroboree.”
“Death-bones can’t hurt you,” the teacher said
contemptuously. “Him all gammon. White man
God properly strong-pfeller.”
“Debil-debil strong pfeller, too,” added Gwadbu
cautiously.
“Yu-i; but two pfeller bin fight and God bin
knockum down debil-debil.”
“How you know?”
“Him there longa book. I bin readum.”
Gwadbu was still unconvinced.
“Me finishum corroboree first time,” he said cun-
ningly, “then debil-debil can’t growl. Mightbe me
joinum mission by-an’-bye.”
“No more good talk that one; wicked pfeller
talk like that! Christian no more ’fraid anything.”
Gwadbu thought of the white schoolteacher and
hesitated. Miss Batchelor was certainly very brave,
if it was God made her strong it wouldnY do to
offend Him. Gwadbu was very much afraid of the
spirits of legend and myth, but if God was
stronger
“You bin seeum God?” he temporised.
“No more yet. When me die me seeum. But
you no more bin seeum debil-debil neither!”
Gwadbu admitted that was so. But in spite of
the teacher’s coaxing he hesitated. It wouldn’t do to
change sides till he Was sure which one was the
stronger.
The teacher rose to go.
“You try think,” was his parting thrust. “More
better you join mission. God properly strong pfeller.
Black-pfeller magic can’t hurtum Christian.”
I EFT alone, Gwadbu fried to decide what was best
1—- to do. From his peepholes he looked again at
the mission buildings and the forest across the river.
If he joined the mission he would incur the anger of
the medicine-man and the old men of the tribe. He
would lose his freedom. When the bell rang he would
have to work in the garden or attend school or
church. But he would be given red cloth for a sulu
and food three times a day. He would learn to read
and some day he might become a teacher ; or if he
returned to the bush-blacks’ camp with his superior
knowledge he could insist on the best food, a life ol
ease, the pick of the young lubras for wives.
On the other hand, he could finish his initiation
and become a warrior. He would not have to listen
for bells, or dig, or sit in a stuffy schoolroom; he
would hunt when he wanted to, eat when he was
hungry, sleep when he was tired. But it was cold in
Wet Season. The driving rain beat through the paper-
bark mia mias and put out the fires, and often the tribe
sat and shivered with cold till morning. Sometimes
food was scarce. The white man’s cattle frightened
away kangaroos and emus, and more than once the
hunters had come back empty-handed from a long
day’s hunt.
Slowly the sun set, shadows lengthened, darkness
crept into the building and wrapped itself around
Gwadbu as he sat crosslegged on the floor. The
sound of singing drifted from the church, and, from
across the river, the faint tap, tap, tap of boomerangs
and the dull boom of the sacred bull-roarer. It was
not nice being locked up alone at night. Gwadbu s
eyes rolled from side to side; he listened for ghostly
noises with every nerve strained, yet earnestly hoping
that he would not hear them. When he peered through
the hole in the iron all he could see was the twinkling
of fireflies and the flicker of a hurricane-lamp as one
of the missionaries walked to the river and crossed
over to the other side in the dinghy. He stood on
tiptoe and watched the light disappear when the boat
reached the other side.
A lubra pattered by the building. Gwadbu called
softly to her. “Gnalalee, sister, who that one
gottum light?”
The lubra answered in a whisper. “That one Miss
Batch’lor. Camp boy bin stealum kitchen lubra.
Teacher go fetchum back. Mightbe she beltum boy,
too!” , ,
“Prop’ly strong pfeller that one Miss Batch’lor!
Him no more ’fraid—nothin’! ” exclaimed Gwadbu in
admiration.
GWADBU waited, his eye glued to the peephole
overlooking the river. After a long time he saw
the light coming back. He watched it cross the river
and flicker along the path to the big-girls’ dormitory.
There came the slam of a heavy door, the rattle of
chain and padlock, and the light moved across the
compound, swinging with the long manlike strides ol
the white teacher.
The native teacher came back and spoke to
Gwadbu without opening the door. “You sleep now.
To-morrow you choose between God and debil-debil.
More better you sit down longa mission.”
“That one Miss Batch’lor bin fetchum back
lubra?” Gwadbu was consumed with curiosity.
“Yu-i; him beltum boy and takum away lubra.”
“Why him no more ’fraid?”
“ ’Cause him Christian,” said the native teacher
simply.
Gwadbu felt more than ever inclined to become
a Christian. Surely no debil-debil could withstand
the white man’s God! He opened his mouth to speak.
Before the words were uttered a fearful scream came
from Miss Batchelor’s room. Again and again it
rang out, the high-pitched, penetrating scream of a
terrified woman. The native teacher rushed away in
the direction of the sound.
Gwadbu felt his blood run cold with fear. It
must be something terrible, something awful to make
the fearless Miss Batchelor scream like that. Perhaps
the debil-debil had come for her. Gwadbu was glad
he had not quite decided to become a Christian. He
would wait before he finally decided one way or the
othen he scr£ams died away . After a long time the
native teacher passed the building on his return and
Gwadbu called anxiously to him.
“Was that the debil-debil?”
The man laughed. “No more :
big pfeller rat bin fall down longa
Miss Batch’lor bed.”
“A rat !” gasped the astonished
Gwadbu. In that instant his hesi-
tancy disappeared.


Iks masterpiece is (Perfection —„ r
Zj ike spirit he always serves.
W
i) •
.-*r^
%
i
trie
s
h.vu
tgu;
SSSt
5T
\lk
er
s>
11
&•
(D c Calluin‘s
X (1/A/sAy Js-
6^
'7}„/eCiX<0r
Wyri>^
OrCaUums
i
Scots (Übislcy
*>6'MY*
( rov-f»* >§oyJ
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
'iSk
St
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/* (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS .
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection of
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone.
(Postage 2d. extra)
Obtainable
only
from
£Xi\e
,1 v' v
...
# ss
*4
*>V* 0
#•’
xs '


■
f
SUFFERING FROM NERVES AND
DEPRESSION
Go down to your chemist or store and buy a bottle of Bidomak
if your husband is showing signs of irritability. Nine times out of
ten nerves” are the cause of bad-temper, and nerves are caused
by ‘‘mineral starvation.” Perhaps that may seem strange to
you —but people who have tried everything else have been
amazed at the immediate, quick, happy results which come from
the use of a mineral food supplement such as Bidomak.
Bidomak contains the vital food minerals without which,
leading dieticians tell us, life would be impossible. Its use as
directed changes grumpy, tired men into fit, well, vigorous
personalities again.
HOW MINERAL STARVATION
CAN BE RECOGNISED
The loss of mineral elements in the
body is due to the strain and stress
of modern life and the fact that
these losses are not replaced by
our daily food supply. To begin
with, they show themselves in
an insidious loss of energy and
vitality. The power to concentrate
is lost. Then other symptoms
crowd upon the sufferer. He loses
his spirit, the desire to exert him-
self fails, his appetite weakens,
he gets over-sensitive and quick-
tempered.
Sometimes he becomes the victim of
indigestion, neuritis, headaches, and sub-
ject to fits of depression.
Altogether the mineral-starved man
becomes a less efficient member of society.
The more youthful jump over his head
in business. Socially, he becomes a back
number. Thus, through lack of vital
mineral food he loses his ability to enjoy
life and to win success. No wonder he
"snaps,” even at those most dear to him.
What a tragedy this is! But it need be a
tragedy no longer. Bidomak can now
replace the vital minerals and bring the
sufferer back to vigour and vitality.
Energy returns —life looks brighter—
daily tasks become easy—-the power of
concentration returns—temper improves
and irritability vanishes confidence
grows quickly as vigour and nerve
strength return. It is like a miracle how
the iron, calcium, sodium, potash, phos-
phates, glycerophosphates and sucrose in
Bidomak combine to provide a new
savour to life, even in the worst cases.
NO DANGEROUS
DRUGS
Remember, too, that Bidomak is a food.
It contains no bitter, dangerous narcotic
drugs nor opiates. On the other hand,
Bidomak is safe for the youngest children,
who take it readily because of its very
pleasant flavour. Get a bottle from your
chemist or store TO-DAY.
Children Take
BIDOMAK’S Safe
Foods Readily
Bidomak is no old-fashioned medicine
with a nasty taste. Modern research has
enabled the discoverer to provide a palat-
able tonic which ends at the time of
taking the emotional “scenes” which,
authorities say, often lead to serious
digestive disturbances, destroying the
value of the mixture. Bidomak is
pleasant and contains no dangerous drugs,
opiates nor narcotics. It is safe for even
the youngest children, who learn to ask
for it because they like it. So get some
to-day and give it to all your family if
you want them to be fit, vigorous, happy
and well!
SB
i
m
m
ill
PROOF
POSITIVE
Read these amazing extracts
from letters by people who
were once never really well, but
after taking BIDOMAK are
now on the high road to
vigorous, happy health. What
Bidomak has done for these
people it can and will also do
for you.
"I Felt So Terribly Weak
and Depressed That I
Actually Broke Into
Tears ..."
“I was in such a rotten state of nerves
that I hated to talk to people. I’d just
snap their heads off. My nerves were all
shot to pieces, and 1 felt so depressed
and weak that I would burst into tears
for apparently no reason at all.
“1 couldn’t sleep at night, and I lost
my appetite completely.
“When 1 had taken three bottles of
‘Bidomak’ the difference was marvellous.
“I was a new being—l can eat anything
now, and I sleep like Rip Van Winkle.
The rash is nearly gone. It’s absolutely
wonderful what a difference ‘Bidomak’
made to me. I love life once more, and
I thank you for your wonderful tonic.
Yours truly,
“(Signed) J. Hay don.”
Loss of Confidence
and Nerves Ended
“Dear Sirs, —Over two years ago I
had a severe nervous breakdown. I
had been under the doctor’s care all
the time, besides taking other nerve
tonics and pills, also having a month
in hospital as a rest cure, as I always
felt very depressed and weak and
tired and unable to sleep. After I
had taken the first bottle of
BIDOMAK I felt a different man.
Now I /eel so well and happy that I
am always speaking to others of the
wonderful tonic.
“(Signed) R.P.W.”
MONEY BACK
Guarantee TRIAL OFFER
So many nerve sufferers have obtained immediate
relief from BIDOMAK that, if you do not benefit by
taking it, we will refund your money within 14 days
of purchase on return of the nearly empty bottle to
your nearest distributor. Thus, we guarantee you
positive relief or you pay nothing.
SCIENTIFIC CONTROL
Attached to the laboratories of the Douglas Drug
Company are three fully qualified chemists and a
Doctor of Medicine, who graduated at the Universities
of Edinburgh and Glasgow.
LISTEN IN TO
ELLIS PRICE IN
NAT GOULD’S
“THE DOUBLE EVENT”
This scintillating drama of the race-track is brought
to you over the following stations by the proprietors
of BIDOMAK:—*
2GB, Sydney; 2HD, Newcastle; 3UZ-SR-YB-UL, Vic-
toria; 4BH, Brisbane; SKA and SAU, Adelaide ;
6IX-WB, Perth; 7EX, Launceston; 7HT, Hobart; and
7UV, Ulverstone. See your local papers for the times
and days.
Get a Large Bottle
TO-DAY.
3/-
All Chemists
and Stores.
N. Zealand, 3 7 6.
B/DOMAK
The Tonic of the Centurvfor Nerve. Brain and that Depressed Feeling
