

7 lut/ indie, 9 Sit of 1!mI 'ditti/x
iJht yfj&t&t 9 JuJkt *fto limv*' ••• •
The fascination of a Feftex floor grows stronger as
you live with it and discover more and more its
good points. Feltex, in plain colours or marbled
effects, lends luxury to floors, is silent and soft to
the tread, and makes “Home Sweet Home.” Feltex is
economical too—don’t forget, it’s 50 inches wide. It
is easily cleaned with FELTEX DUAL CLEANER and is
reversible.
See the range at any good furniture store, or write for free
pattern card to Department SG, Box 3281 PP., G.P.0., Sydney.
Insist on Genuine FELTEX—Look for the Name !
FG24S
'a' V ' V S 'f
BBIiSIUBii
WWW
mw
' ;
mm
: ;;
i
s > \f ~ y
•*i m- p;. ; s
m
■ *.«
wM,
w/%i A
■ Hlpi
Wm
■
*
• ■•
•*.s&
• r-
M&m
*r>
ra» r ~ y&v _***<&/<
<■■■■„
Wm
...
;
■
'
% ft H /•
MOTH '
PROOF
>
a
CJ_>
%
<?
P
L\
:
H -
■ f.
m
The Bulletin
Limerick No. 9: The Prizewinners
Vol. 59.—N0. 3072.
Wednesday, December 28, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
HENRY HANDEL RICHARDSON'S
NEW NOVEL.
The Young Cosima (Heinemann) is in Henry
Handel Richardson’s great tradition; fruit from the
same tree as The Fortunes of Richard Mahony and
Maurice Guest. It has, in the evolution of her art, a
subtle relationship to both these books.
Richard Mahony is the story of a man’s life in
its entirety, a heavy and relentless stroke drawn from
youth to death across the map of life. Maurice Guest
is the complete story of a tragic love. One explores
exhaustively a narrow track through the whole of
life ; the other cuts out one phase of life and sifts it to
the last grain. In The Young Cosima, the story of
Liszt’s daughter, who married the pianist-conductor
Hans Guido von Biilow and left him for Richard
Wagner, the theme of love is laid down on a fully-
developed background of general living.
The author has taken a mould from history, and
in so doing has put another restriction on her art. She
has accepted a ready-made story with rigid lines and
poured into it her own interpretation. Further, she
has retreated into a period, the middle of last century,
which she can know only through books. The first
chapter or so suffers from this; it is stilted with con-
sciousness of the period, overburdened with its inci-
dentals, but the book soon sweeps out into the main
stream of its author’s genius, and it doesn’t falter again.
The story is a tragic one. Cosima, whose child-
hood was made unhappy through the quarrels of her
parents, married at 19 the poor, sickly but talented
Von Biilow. The marriage was of her seeking, and
was inspired by pity rather than love, and the belief
that by sacrificing herself to her husband, adding her
gifts to his, she could make a great man of him. She
fought his battles, soothed his nervous distress, nursed
him in his numerous illnesses, endured the acid criti-
cism of his mother, bore him two children that he
did not want.
At last sacrifice reached saturation point. Cosima’s
youth recoiled from the sickly husband who demanded
so much from her and gave so much to his friends,
who absorbed all her sacrifice in order to sacrifice
himself to the two men he loved most in the world,
Cosima’s father, the great pianist-composer Liszt, and
Richard Wagner, erratic, vigorous, irritating, selfish,
lovable, who was the antithesis of Von Biilow. Wagner
drew Cosima to him as by the power of gravity, and
from disliking and resenting him she came to love
him. Then the long agony began.
Under the protection of her husband’s name
Cosima bore Wagner two children. Von Biilow, dis-
covering the relationship, could neither let Cosima go
nor forgive her. He sacrificed his secret pride to
appearances before the world. She remained bound
to him by his weakness, by his position, which a
scandal would ruin, and by Wagner’s irresponsibility.
Henry Handel Richardson probes this intolerable,
long-drawn-out situation to its ultimate dregs. Von
Biilow and Wagner remained bound together by their
music in a friendship and alliance that Cosima had
made insupportable. Von Biilow, the weakest in
character, suffered the most. For the other two the
tragedy was not so complete ; it did not wipe them
out; they worked their way through it and went on
with life.
The major theme of the book is perhaps the
futility of sacrifice —sacrifice as another aspect of
rapacity. Cosima, painted so fairly as brave and good,
destroys the man she didn’t really love but wanted
only to help. Their essentially false relationship could
end only in disaster. This motif is repeated again and
again. Von Billow’s mother, who had sacrificed
everything for her only son, was a tyrant who sapped
his spirit. Liszt, also, was the victim of Princess
Carolyne, who claimed that her only motive in life
was to advance his career, and in return exacted the
most usurious toll from him. Von Biilow himself
was the slave of his friends, and everyone suffered
for it.
The emotional tangle is not all that the book
contains. Behind, unforgotten, are creation, music,
the struggle to live. Although Cosima’s love story is
the main subject, the book seems to take it in its stride.
There are comparatively few minor characters.
All these struggling people, so long dead, are dis-
played without prejudice, with a relentless understand-
ing that is neither sophistication nor cynicism.
Australian Verses.
Judging by what comes into The Bulletin and
what is appearing in other journals there is still that
dearth of good verse in Australia that was referred
to on this page about a year ago. But if there is
little new writing, an extraordinary number of books
of verse of genuine quality are being published. In
Adelaide, in Melbourne and in Sydney verses that
appeared in periodicals a few years ago are being
collected into book form.
Among books of merit in the last few months
there was a slim sheaf from Shaw Neilson, Ronald
McCuaig’s Vaudeville, and poems from Rex
Ingamells, Leonard Mann and Mary Finnin. Four
new books, all of interest, have been published
this month. One is an exquisite booklet from Aus-
tralia’s finest lyrist, Hugh McCrae; another a
generous collection from T. Inglis Moore, who took
second prize in the sesquicentenary poem com-
petition ; the third, verses by the late John Neilson,
the father of Shaw Neilson, has historical as well as
literary interest; the fourth is a selection from the
Queensland poet, Victor Kennedy. A new volume by
Robert D. FitzGerald, whose To Meet the Sun was
published 10 years ago, and whose “Essay on Memory”
won the sesqui. poem competition, is to appear in the
near future.
McCrae’s poem, The Mimshi Maiden, is not a
new one. It was published in the “New Triad.” It
is a delightful fantasy, full of delicate laughter and
delicate loveliness, and a poem that is gay and incon-
sequential is doubly welcome to-day when a dreadful
seriousness is stifling the English lyric tradition.
McCrae, instead of grim intelligences from Spain or
the factories, announces
Round the island of Zipangu,
Crowned with lilies, silver-sandal’d,
Through the amber bending bamboo,
In a rickshaw many-candied,
Rode a tiny Mimshi maiden.
And, of course,
Through the thickets strolled a yellow,
Onyx-taloned, whisker-curling,
Evil-omened tiger-fellow.
Eighty or so lines of fear and delight, the scattering
of the guard and the carrying off of the maiden, and
then the happy conclusion
Mimshi felt she must adore him
(Such things sometimes do grow fixtures),
Loved the tiger, and she bore him
Little Mimshi-tiger mixtures.
The booklet has been charmingly presented,
something after the style of a Faber “Ariel Poem,”
by Angus and Robertson.
John Neilson’s book, Men of the Fifties, which
has previously been referred to on the Red Page,
comes from John Gartner, of the Hawthorn Press,
Melbourne. One hundred copies have been printed
for private distribution. Neilson, who died in 1922,
was not the poet his son is, but he wrote
verse that sometimes hardened to good balladry, and
sometimes, as in “The Last Time,” rose to a lyricism
that Shaw Neilson would more than approve: —
And other eyes than ours, my love, shall see
Tire white moon wither in the western sky,
And other eyes than ours shall look their last
Across the waves to see the red sun die;
While, like some half-forgotten childhood rhyme,
They speak the words we speak, “For the last time.”
Victor Kennedy’s Light of Earth is another limited
edition from the Hawthorn Press, hand-set and hand-
printed on all-rag paper. Kennedy writes a pleasant
verse, sometimes singing in a manner reminiscent of
Rod Quinn, sometimes, as in “Earth Mother,” writing
philosophy in sensuous imagery. His “North Again”:
’Twere well, the colors of life are there,
Blood’s red; the brown of mould;
And souls are swept to its atmosphere
Of filtered sun-rays’ gold;
Fine, fine is the depth of amber air
Where jungle roots have hold.
In a book of about 100 pages, published by Angus
and Robertson, Inglis Moore has collected his
poems written over some years in Australia and
abroad. Adagio in Blue is a book that cannot fail
to give genuine pleasure both to those who ask that
a poem should convey beauty of speech and image,
and to those who ask that it should be written with
contemporary —not “modernist” —technique. Some of
the poems have been published in The Bulletin and
in other Australian journals.
The careful technique, the insistence on beauty,
the occasional profundity of thought and the de-
liberate employment of Australian imagery command
respect for a craftsman who takes his job seriously and
does it well. Here is “Carillon Avenue”: —
Hushed as a lover just fulfilled,
The city lies, its clamor stilled,
In the cool arms of night, aswoon
Under that marigold the moon.
Carillon chimes with mellow note
Softly from hells like petals float
Down hollowed silence, silver sound
Rippling the golden calm around
The fig-tree, as its branches dark
Break the pooled moonlight of the park.
Throughout the book the felicity of the line
“Under that marigold the moon” is repeated: —
And clematis stars on myrtle trees
Clustered in creamy Hyades.
In “Strangers”: —
Though we float in still
Waters of jade at peace, you do not know
Whither my gipsy thoughts a-roving go,
Nor I what strange, warm dreams your brown eyes fill.
Breast unto breast we lie, flesh-linked yet far
As star from incommunicable star.
Adagio in Blue is not always so successful. The
poem on Sydney Bridge, with the heavy line “This
bow of will notches twanged arrows sped” is an essay
in technique—Charles Madge’s arid method —and it
doesn’t come off. In some of the romantic poems the
decoration is overdone. But the book’s faults in-
dicate its merits —technical alertness and a vivid
awareness of beauty in landscape or emotion.
A Wombat in Sussex.
Tough! They took Rastus at six months old to
England. Not the first of his kind to go there in a
private capacity, either. Rossetti, it appears, had a
wombat, but “his was a blase Chelsea specimen, who
used to sleep on the epergne in the middle of his
master’s dinner-table and cultivated expensive tastes
in the way of cigars as an article of food.”
There is nothing of the parlor Bohemian about
Rastus. Taken at that tender age to Sussex, washed
and brought down to the drawing-room, “the most
aptly named ‘Digger’ that ever left the Common-
wealth” early showed proof of his character by snort-
ing and kicking out backwards when stroked.
Promenades on a dog-lead affording him little idea of
the surrounding countryside, he one day went a.w.l.
A handsome reward was placed on his rotund form,
but six long months passed before it was claimed.
Then he was reported gambolling idiotically with a
herd of young pigs, was collared in a Rugby tackle
and ignominiously borne back to captivity in a sack.
Yet he had accomplished something: he had come
hale and hearty through the rigors of an English
winter, unattended and out-o’-doors.
But the taste of liberty was too much for this
exile: he was soon off again, and for another long
stretch no one saw or heard of him, “though the cow-
man, the pig-man and the gardeners would notice
certain tracks and say in good Sussex, according to
whether they loved or disapproved of the hairy little
wanderer: ‘There’s that there wommy-bat again.’ ”
Craving for society eventually drew Rastus back
in from England’s great open spaces, like a boundary-
rider come down to the Smoke for a break. “One wet,
blustery evening when the rain drove everybody in-
doors to throw extra hissing logs on to their fires,
there came a loud and determined knocking on the
kitchen door.” Rastus. There he crouched on the
doorstep very wet and bedraggled, his small eyes
dazzled by the glare. With a determined shuffle he
entered. “Someone offered him a hunk of bread and,
as if it were the most natural thing in the world, the
animal seized it in its curiously human hand, and
devoured it without haste and alarm: then as calmly
turned and waddled off into the night.”
Now each evening, anywhere between 6.30 and
midnight, he turns up, to pummel and bump the back
door till it’s opened. One night, when nobody heard
his knocks, he almost gnawed the door through. “The
maids love him, and if he does not arrive up to time
they come wide-eyed to say that ‘Rastus has not been
yet, sir; do you think anything can have happened
to him?’ ”
One more sample of the enchantment that belongs
to Sidney Rogerson’s The Old Enchantment (Ivor
Nicholson and Watson). This is old Cockle, a farm
worker, who has asked about the prices of cars and
been told that “that big saloon will have cost not less
than £2500.”
Up till then Cockle’s expression had been one of
puzzlement. Now it changed to one of incredulity mixed
with indignation. “£2500! No, sir! No, sir! ’Tisn’t
right, it isn’t! £2500!” There was a pause and then
the question, “Do you mean that that there great old
car is worth more than Green Farm?”
“Yes, I suppose it is worth about half as much
again.”
“No, sir! No, sir!” This time Cockle shook his
head vigorously. “That don’t make no sense. Do you
look here, sir,” he adjured earnestly. “Green Farm
kept your grandfather. It kept your father and it’ll
keep you if you treat it right, not to mention me and
other men. That it will. But that old car,” he jerked
a short, stubby thumb contemptuously in its direc-
tion
The Old Enchantment is a book grown out of the
very soil of England. There is both a gnarled strength
and a mellow fruitfulness about its chapters. It is a
collection of sketches, each standing its own ground,
but all knit together by being, as Lord Halifax has
it in an introductory note, “instinct with that sort of
subtle understanding which comes only with deep
affection.”
A Sitwell in Rumania.
In Rumanian Journey (Batsford) Sacheverell
Sitwell records a journey through a little known
country that is much in the news. The book has no
political intention ; it is a rich and colorful descrip-
tion of a country which the author, approaching it as
a scholar and an artist, saw as an earthly paradise.
He describes the great fertile plains with their
fields of sunflowers ; the wooden villages where the
peasants still wear their national costumes without
self-consciousness ; the towns and cities echoing with
native music which after a little time became a fever
in the foreigner’s blood; the monasteries that still, as
in the Middle Ages, are the repositories of culture;
the ancient aristocracy with their Byzantine culture;
the peasantry who are the salt of the earth ; the long-
haired Laetze gipsies, a people of Biblical appearance,
mysterious origin and infinite chicanery. Of the oil-
fields he has only one paragraph:
After a while the dead plain is reached, with curious
wooden pyramids standing in hundreds in the distance,
denoting the oilfields. They look like the pawns in some
prodigious game, and this, indeed, it is arguable,
they may be. No human habitations surround them, and
they seem to exist in solitude, working by themselves,
rather suggesting in appearance those machines in
which the Martians made their landing in the novel
by H. G. Wells. They are cranking, cranking without
ceasing for a moment, pouring out the black oil from
the depths of the earth, crushing it from the black
shale or gravel in which it is dormant. They are
machines that have been set to work by the taskmaster,
and that have neither the curiosity nor the means to
question the reason.
Reading Sitwell you feel that the oilfields are
just a regrettable accident in a pleasant land, some-
thing quite outside its character and the main stream
of its life. The author of a book recently reviewed
on this page pointed out that in Poland and Hungary
peasant crafts were dying out, but in Rumania,
according to Sitwell, they thrive and grow. Art is not
segregated in galleries and museums, nor is it a matter
of personal specialisation ; it is an integral part of life,
expressing itself in folk music, festival dancing, the
decoration of common utensils, the clothes of the
people.
Sitwell takes a scholar’s delight in tracing influ-
ences, and found Rumania a palimpsest of Turkish,
Russian, Polish and Byzantine cultures—influences
absorbed unself-consciously and blended into the
national pattern. Everything pleased him, from the
climate to King Carol, whom he describes as a model
ruler, educating his heir to be the perfect democrat-
according to a system of his own —with a group of
(<Continued on page 7.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— always.
saske^£
Bn av-wi-^ 1
screendoc* 5
WINDOWS
4-
e**
HIP
In this page will be found all the material needed to build
strong, serviceable screen doors and windows. Flies are a
dangerous enemy of man .. they are direct germ and disease
carriers. Be wise, keep them outside your home! Take every
precautionary measure.
Corner and Centre Door Bracket (Xu
202). At Anthony Horderns'
PRICE, set of 6 1/10
Antique Coppered Door Handles At
Anthony Horderns'.
PRICES, each 2d.. 5d.. s*d.. 6*d.
lapanned Screen Door Hinges At
Anthony Horderns'.
PRICES, pair 7d.. 1/2
Brassed or Cadmium Door Hinges At
Anthony Horderns’. PRICE, pair. lOd.
dsf
Telescopic WINDOW SCREENS
With Galvanised Gauze, to open up
to 36x12 36x19$ 42x19!
PRICES, each 3/9 4/9 5/3
With Bronze Gauze. At Anthony
Horderns’
PRICES, each 4/9 6/- 7/-
Screen Door Catches. Bronzed, lor Flyproof Doors.
Opening Outwards (Xu3). At Anthony Horderns'.
PRICE, each 2/7
2/2
With Lever Handle At Anthony Horderns'
PRICE, each —— ~
Snappy Catches. At Anthony Horderns .
PRICE, each - l°d-
DOOR OR GATE SPRINGS
Spiral Door or Gate Springs. Japanned, with
Screws At Anthony Horderns'
Lengths, ins 9 10 11 12 14
PRICES, each 9d. lOd. 1/1 1/4 1/9
Nickel-plated 1/6 1/8
WA/s
nSw«
os.
vSO
it
: Y.Y'^
*S
n
//
6?
WOVEN WIRE (Fly & Mosquito Proof)
ZINCOID
0
SCREENDOOR CHECKS
• Rega" Door Checks and Closers, for screen doors and light
interior doors Adjustable to right or left-hand doors without
making any changes whatever A turn of a valve instantly
adjusts to different weight of doors At Anthony Horderns
PRICE, each - 7/ "
.7
'^4o
7ft x 3ft
13/3
MATERIALS FOR MAKING DOORS
We supply these in sets comprising.—
1 set Dressed Timber and Beading
1 set of six Corner and Centre Brackets (Xu 202).
1 pair Spring Hinges; 1 Door Handle
Brads and Tacks and sufficient Woven Wire to complete.
FOR DOORS 6ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in.. 6ft. Bin x 2ft Bin
Oregon Timber and Zincoid Woven Wire—
At Anthony Horderns' PRICES, set—
-12/3 12/6
Oregon Timber and Bronze Woven Wire
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICES, set—
-16/9 17/3
By using the corner and centre brackets supplied
mortising is required, thus enabling the amateur to ..—-
a Fly Door equal in every way to any Fly Door on the market
NOTE.—The Timber in these Sets is cut for approximately 7ft. x: 3ft.
doors. Before setting up. measure off the size required for YOUR
door and cut accordingly.
• Department —Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Delivered Free anywhere within our Delivery Area.
19/3
with sets, no
make and fit
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.
HORDERNS
LOW PRICES
'Phone: M 2401. Day and Night
THE SENIOR STORE.'


The Pages of History Thrown Open
THE REACHER-OUTER-BRINGER-BACKER
By J.B. BLAIR
MAPS , PLANS AND
ATMOSPHERICS
BY UNK WHITE
WE are all familiar with the type
of writer who is for ever
lamenting the paucity of the
information handed down to
us about the past. You know the sort
of thing. “If only Julius Caesar were
able to come back, what couldn’t he
tell us about the Rome of his day! If only Good Queen
Bess were here to-day,” and so on. Idle lamentations
for the most part, for if these two (or any other
notables of history) were by some means given a fresh
start now they would have their time and their interest
entirely taken up in learning to dodge trams and
motor-cars and to operate telephones, electric-toasters,
vacuum-cleaners and modern systems of sanitation.
I had been reading a newspaper article repeating
the same old “if onlys,” and I remarked something like
the foregoing to Eddie Rumpelmayer, expecting his
highly scientific mind to agree with me. It did—in part.
“Of course,” he said. “Where they make the
mistake is wanting to bring the bodies back. We
don’t want the bodies. All we want is their voices.”
I goggled, but it was wasted on Rumpelmayer.
Not being a reader of popular fiction he didn’t recog-
nise it.
“And that,” he went on, “is a simple matter. I’ve
done it myself.”
“How? What do you mean?” I asked in some
excitement.
“Oh, years ago. Briefly I’ll explain it like this. A
voice as we know it is merely a series of sound vibra-
tions impinging on the ear.”
“Yes.”
“Well, those vibrations don’t cease merely because
we’ve heard them. They go on and on through space,
becoming fainter and fainter and getting further and
further away.”
“Don’t they ever fade away altogether?”
“No. Fainter and fainter, imperceptible perhaps,
but dead, no.”
“And you reckon you can bring them back?”
“Not exactly, but that’s near enough for your un-
scientific mind. Now look. Sound travels at eleven
hundred feet per second.”
He clapped his hands together and continued.
“The sound of that handclap has gone off into space.
If I had some means of reaching out into space faster
than eleven hundred feet per second I could overtake
that clap and we should hear it again. Reach further
out and catch it a second time and we should hear
it once more, and so on.”
“A great idea for a retired actor,” I observed.
“Wireless,” resumed Eddie, “gives me that power.
Wireless waves travel at a hundred and eighty-six
thousand miles per second. They enable me to bring
back that handclap almost instantaneously. They give
me the sounds of a year ago in a matter of seconds.
In ten minutes I can bring back the Armistice Day
cheers of nineteen eighteen. A few minutes more and
the bells are tolling for Queen Victoria’s funeral. A
little further”
“I know,” I broke in. “We’re going to find out,
what Gladstone really said in eighteen eighty-two.”
“Nothing could be
simpler.”
“And do you mean
to tell me you’ve heard
all this?”
“Er —not exactly,”
Rumpy replied. “You see, I
made the instrument a good
many years ago and the cal-
culations were the obstacle.
I brought back all sorts of
sounds, but couldn’t tie them
down to any particular person
or period. Anyway, the whole
thing’s up at my Aunt Lucy’s if
you’d care to have a look.”
C\N the way to Aunt Lucy’s Eddie
became quite enthusiastic. “You
know,” he said, “I’m glad you brought this
subject up. I’d forgotten all about this thing,
and I reckon that after all these years I might
be able to use it. Those calculations were the
trouble, but now I’ve got Rumpelmayer’s Patent Cal-
culator to fix them ; and Rumpelmayer’s Quintessence
Microphone should make the whole thing perfect.”
Aunt Lucy turned out to be a dear old soul. She
regaled us with afternoon-tea and reminiscences of
Rumpy’s childhood —his early childhood, to be pre-
cise, since she didn’t seem to realise he had graduated
from that blissful state.
“Oh, you’ll be wanting your toys,” she said when
Eddie broached the subject of his invention. “I’ve
kept them all for you. They’re locked in your play-
room.”
The inventor shuddered at this description of
his workshop, but made no actual protest.
“Well, I’ll leave you two boys together,” said
Aunt Lucy after she had found the key of the play-
room. “Don’t forget to tidy up after you’ve finished.”
“This is it,” said Rumpelmayer when we were
alone. He waved his hand towards a jumble of
apparatus which conveyed very little to my untutored
mind. “What’s that for?” I asked, pointing at random
and endeavoring to appear intelligent.
“Oh, that’s got no-
thing to do with it,” re-
plied Rumpy. “That’s
just a combined egg-
boiler and bean-slicer.
Handy, but nothing to do
with this job.” He cleared
away some of the gadgets
and started tinkering
with the apparatus. Half
an hour later he an-
nounced that he was
ready for a demonstra-
tion.
“Just something
simple,” he said. “We’ll
listen in to yesterday’s
debate at Canberra.”
He twisted a pointer
on a huge globe to the
position of Canberra.
“That’s just approxi-
mate,” he said. “It’s this
latilonger of mine that
ensures accuracy.” A
finely-graduated instru-
ment was next carefully
set at the latitude and
longitude of Canberra.
Rumpy then spent a few
minutes with a pencil and
a book of tables, did
something to a map of
the stars and something
else to a huge machine
similar to the one he
called his latilonger.


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for "The Bulletin s Short Story
Competition are:—
First £^o
Second £l5
Third £l®
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
“My spatial positioner,” he explained. More cal-
culations, much adjusting of dials.
“Switch her on,” he ordered then, pointing
towards the door. lobeyed. A dynamo in the corner
began to hum, the valves glowed and the loudspeaker
spluttered. .
“She takes a little while to warm up,” exclaimed
Eddie anxiously. “Here it comes!
“Five to one, bar one. I’m laying five to one
A string of race-track talk came from the loud-
speaker. I looked at Rumpy.
“A little bit out,” he said. “It’s the calculations.
That must be Flemington or Randwick. Yesterday s
meeting, I suppose. The time’s right, but the place
is wrong.”
We listened again.
“Phar Lap, seven to four on* Twenty-five to
one White Nose!”
“White Nose!” I said. “You must be a long
way out. That’s the nineteen thirty-one Melbourne
Cup.”
Rumpelmayer switched off. “It’s no good,” he
said ; “we’ll have to get my Calculator on to it.
“No good!” 1 answered. “Boy, it’s wonderful.
Our fortune’s made. Once you get that thing under
control there’ll be no holding us. We 11 put it oyer
big. The sponsors’ll be breaking their necks to sign
us up ‘Voices from the Past’ we’ll call it. Millions
Now Dead Will Never Die!’ ‘Hear Napoleon say
farewell to his steed through the courtesy of Kleenum
Toothpaste!’ ”
'T'HE next couple of weeks Rumpy spent most of his
I time at Aunt Lucy’s and I spent most of mine on
the doorstep of 2AZ broadcasting station. The
manager was still feeling a bit let-down over some
of our previous ventures, and took a lot of persuading
before he would even agree to look at our proposi-
tion. *
Rumpy gave him a demonstration in which he
heard several gruff voices speaking in a foreign lan-
guage. According to the indicators it should have
been Stanley greeting Livingstone in Darkest Africa,
but the calculations were apparently a few miles or a
few years out. As none of us was a linguist we
couldn’t say whether we had stumbled on a Cabinet
meeting of President Kruger or upon Paul Robeson
inquiring his way to King Solomon s mines. Any-
how, Longwave, the radio man, was quite impressed
and promised to get us a sponsor.
“What do you call the thing?” he asked.
“I thought of christening it the ‘Rumpelmayer
Spatial and Temporal Eliminator and Multiphonic
Re-creator,’ ” admitted its proud inventor.
“Far too long. You want -something snappy.”
“Well,” protested Eddie, “you’ve got to have a
name that conveys that it reaches out through time
and space and brings back”
“0.K.,” I chipped in. “Call it a Reacher-Outer
and Bringer-Backer.”
Rumpy didn’t like the idea, but Longwave sup-
ported me and Rumpelmayer’s Reacher-Outer-
Bringer-Backer it became. The R. 0.8.8. for short,
and in affectionate moments Robbie.
Eddie kept working on it day and night with
varying success. Some days he’d be bubbling over
with excitement at having snatched back from the
past a fragment of recognisable conversation, and at
other times he’d be very much down in the dumps,
having set a trap for a speech by Disraeli or Lincoln
and captured instead some doleful chanting from a
Tibetan lamasery.
At last Longwave announced that he had got
us a sponsor. Sea Dog Cigarettes had been planning
a series of radio plays, “Famous British Naval Vic-
tories,” and were prepared to give Robbie a chance
at bringing back the actual thing.
“Next Friday at eight-fifteen,” said Longwave.
“They want the Battle of Trafalgar. Fifteen minutes
including sales talk. Can you do it?”
“What, the sales talk?” asked Rumpy.
“No, the bringing-back part! The sales talk
will be slotted in. I’ll see to that part. Can you
manage the battle?”
“It’ll be pretty difficult,” replied Eddie, “but I
think we can do it.”
“Good! I’ll rely on you.”
“He’s set us a big job,” Rumpy confided to me
after Longwave had gone. “We can find the latitude
and longitude of Cape Trafalgar all right, but we ve
got to remember the fleets were shifting about during
the fight. And if we pick up one ship, are we to stick
to it right through the fight or get a kind of running
commentary by switching about among the fleets?
It was certainly a tough problem, so we went and
interviewed the proprietor of Sea Dog Cigarettes. The
problem was tougher still when we left him. He cer-
tainly wanted money’s worth for his fifteen minutes.
“Gimme the Victory during the last quarter-hour of
the fight,” he said. “You know, while Nelson was
thanking God he’d done his duty and asking Hardy
to kiss him.”
We tried to persuade him to take pot luck with
the fleet, but he stuck to his guns.
“It’s drama I want,” he said. “Drama and action.
If you don’t want to do it, say so.”
We promised to deliver the goods.
“I’ll do it,” said Rumpy when we got back to
Aunt Lucy’s. “I’ll get the general field of battle by
accurate calculation, then I’ll cast about by trial and
error till I strike the Victory, chase her up till I get
the ‘Kiss-Me-Hardy’ scene, note the position care-
fully, and I’ll be all set to pick it up again on Friday
night.
“Another thing to remember,” he said, “is the
difficulty of synchronising our reception with the time
for the broadcast. October the twenty-first, eighteen
hundred and five, is a long way back. By now the
tumult and the shouting of Trafalgar is something like
eight hundred and seventy-three million, eight hun-
dred and ten thousand miles away in space, and even
at the speed of wireless it’ll take a little while to
bring it back.”
“How long?” I asked.
“Robbie can do a century in just under fifty-nine
minutes. That means seventy-eight minutes to bring
back Trafalgar, so we’ll have to switch on seventy-
eight minutes before eight-fifteen to be in time for the
broadcast.”
THE rest of the week was a nightmare to poor old
Rumpelmayer. He lived in a world of round shot,
cheers and gunfire. The clank of grappling-irons and
the crash of falling masts were for him merely a
background against which he might discern husky
nautical voices cursing in French, Spanish or Eng-
lish. If the first or second assailed his ears he would
immediately pass on, combing the sea in search of
another ship, and if good English curses greeted him
he would linger with them until some fragment of
conversation revealed the name of the vessel or at
least proved it was not the Victory.
“I thought I had her to-day,” he confided on
Thursday night. “I heard a sailor say ‘Look at the
silly old standing up there with all ’is medals
on,’ but I found out a bit later he was talking about
Collingwood, not Nelson. Still, I’ve been over the
area pretty systematically and I’ll get her by to-morrow
night all right.”
At three o’clock on Friday afternoon he was still
scouring the seas for the Victory. I suggested locat-
ing her where she now lies at Portsmouth and work-
ing back from there, but he pushed me out of the
workshop and locked the door. At five 1 rang him up.
He’d located her. At least he felt pretty sure it must
be her because he’d already contacted every other
vessel in the two fleets. “There’s no doubt about
Nelson’s strategy,” he said. “I suppose by the time
the enemy found him they used to be too exhausted
to fight.”
Half an hour later he rang to say he was defi-
nitely on board Nelson’s flagship. “It seems to be
anyone’s fight so far,” he reported. “The Victory’s
having an all-in scrap with the Bucentaur, and some-
one’s just warned Nelson that the Redoubtable is
closing in, too. It’s going to be a great fight. You
ought to be here.” He rang off.
At six o’clock he was on the ’phone again telling
me with a sob in his voice that Nelson was wounded.
“Poor old Nelson! ” he said. “It’s a bad wound,
I’m afraid. They’re all pretty glum about it. Poor
old Nelson!”
“Cheer up! ” I told him. “After all, it s been
going on for a hundred and thirty-three years now,
so he ought to be used to it.”
“Yes, I know’” replied Eddie, “but I can’t help
feeling sorry for him. I feel as if I’d killed him
myself.”
“Gee! He’s not dead yet, is he?” I asked
anxiously. “Stop him. We’re not due on till eight-
fifteen.” MTni .
This brought Rumpy to his senses. 111 just
follow him through to the end,” he said, then care-
fully note my positions, make allowance for the next
two hours and have the whole thing ready to come on
the air exactly after the splurge talk at eight-fifteen.”
“Good! I’ll be at the studio.”
SHORTLY after eight o’clock I arrived at 2AZ.
Longwave was there with Bumper, of Sea Dog
Cigarettes. The land line had been put through to
Rumpy’s workshop and everything was ready for
the hopover.
Longwave led us into the little auditorium. “This
is great!” he whispered to me. “We’re on a fortune
if it succeeds. Bumper will sign up for a big contract
and other firms’ll simply rush us.”
Bumper interrupted us. “Are you sure this
thing’s dinkum?” he asked. “I’ll look a big Alick if
it’s a fake.”
I hastened to reassure him.
“Hush,” said Longwave. “The session’s starting.”
The studio orchestra was playing “Hearts of
Oak.” With a final flourish the music gave way to
“We are bringing to you through the courtesy
of the proprietors of Sea Dog Cigarettes an imperish-
able page from the glorious history of our Empire
The Battle of Trafalgar. This is not a play, listeners.
This is the real thing. For the first tune on any
station the years will be rolled back, the curtain ot
the past drawn aside and you will hear with your own
ears history in the making. So, ladies and gentlemen,
light up your Sea Dog Cigarettes, which, I need hardly
remind you, are on sale at all tobacconists at sixpence
the small packet of nine and one shilling for the
large, cellophane-wrapped packet of eighteen, and
listen to The Battle of Trafalgar.”
Fanfare of trumpets and a rumble of guns. “By
Jove, it’s started,” I muttered.
“Not yet,” said a voice beside me, “that’s just
the studio effects. The real thing’ll be here any
moment.”
It was Rumpy.
“What are you doing here?” I asked in alarm.
“You ought to be over at Aunt Lucy’s.”
“That’s all right,” he said. “I set Robbie going
seventy-eight minutes ago. He’ll be on time all right.”
I was not so sure. For the moment there was
dead silence in the studio. The atmospheric prologue
had ended and Robbie evidently hadn’t begun. Long-
wave looked anxious, Bumper aggressive. Then we
all gave a simultaneous sigh of relief as a terrific
crash came from the speaker, followed by a confused
jumble of voices.
“That’s it,” said Rumpy. “That was the mast
falling. Nelson’s already wounded and dying.”
An explosion rang out, scattered shots, the tramp
of hurried feet, heavy breathing, then, faint but un-
mistakable, “Kiss me, Hardy.”
“Marvellous,” murmured Longwave.
“The real thing,” said Bumper.
“Hush,” cautioned Rumpy. “There’s more to
come.”
For a moment there was silence, then another
crash. An explosion, shots and confused sounds as
before, then the voice: “Kiss me, Hardy.”
“Gee,” said Longwave. “That’s something the
history-books didn’t tell us. He must’ve said it twice.’”
Silence again, then a third crash.
“ ’Strewth ! How many masts did the Victory
have?” asked Bumper.
“Sh-sh!” this from Longwave.
“Kiss me, Hardy.”
Crash! Voices, shots, hurried steps—“ Kiss me,
Hardy.”
The strain was terrible. “Why doesn’t he kiss
him and put the poor old admiral out of his misery?”
asked Bumper.
“Too stiff-necked, I suppose. Frightened bf look-
ing sissy in front of the men.”
Crash! Voices . . .
“Hang it all! She can’t have any more masts”
“Kiss me, Hardy.”
“There must be something wrong,” said Long-
wave as the next crash came. “What is it, Rumpel-
mayer?”
There was no reply except from the radio, which
remarked imploringly “Kiss me, Hardy.”
Rumpy had gone. I rushed out, leaving Long-
wave to smooth things over with Bumper as best he
could. A taxi got me to Aunt Lucy’s just as Rumpe!-
mayer was entering the gate. In silence we approached
the playroom.
Crash! we heard as we reached the door.
Rumpy put the key in the lock. While he was
turning it there was a loud explosion, followed by
scattered shots, but, undeterred, we opened the door
and entered. Hurried footsteps rushed by us. We
heard heavy breathing, then the faint voice, “Kiss me,
Hardy.”
Eddie turned the switch just as the mast was
about to fall for the fiftieth time.
THE explanation, shorn of its technical terms, was
quite simple. Robbie had reached out into space
all right and had captured the death scene, but instead
of standing by, as it were, to intercept subsequent
happenings as they caught up to him he’d kept follow-
ing those poignant moments further and further on
their journey through the ether, thereby repeating
them ad lib. like a cracked gramophone record.
“Merely a simple adjustment needed,” said
Rumpy cheerfully.
“A simple adjustment might fix, that thing up,”
I said, “but what about our contract with Sea Dog
Cigarettes?”
“There’ll be plenty more if we lose that one. ’
I didn’t feel so optimistic. I’d seen Bumper’s face.
We left the workshop and walked through the house.
“What! Going already?” asked Aunt Lucy,
meeting us in the passage. “Won’t you stay for
supper? I’ve got a nice sponge-cake. I know you
boys like sponge-cake.”
We mumbled something about having to get
along.
“Well, look after yourselves. Don’t get up to any
mischief. Good-night.”
“Good-night.”
“Aren’t you going to kiss me, Eddie?”
I braced myself for the crash, but no mast fell.
Rumpelmayer turned back and did his duty.


WEIGHT
BY H.C. McKAY
** ENTLEMAN waiting to see you, sir,” said
f "“I Mr. Hercott’s secretary, putting her head
V-J round the door of the great man’s sanctum.
“His name!” shouted Hercott. Con-
found the woman! Would she never learn?
“Mr. Ringle-Smith, sir.”
“I’ve told you before I won’t see that miserable
crawler! Throw him out! Yes,, even you could do
it —he has no more spirit than a worm!”
The secretary withdrew hastily and Mr. # Hercott
sat fuming. That damned inventor. He’d get nothing
further. Hadn’t he, Hercott, taken up the man’s in-
vention, a fluorescent lighting globe, patented it,
financed it, advertised it, exploited it, made quite a
decent job of it? All Ringle-Smith had supplied was
the idea. The fellow had been thrown a few pounds
for that, and was idiot enough to sign away all further
rights. Let him stew in his own juice. Ringle-Smith
carried no weight in the community. On the other
hand, he, Hercott, was a man of weight in more senses
than one.
A terrific crashing and shuffling in the outer office
broke in on his musing. He pushed the buzzer on
his desk peremptorily, and after some minutes Hanni-
gan, one of the junior clerks, entered, collar awry and
breathing heavily.
“It’s all right now, sir,” he panted. “We threw
him out, gadget and all.”
“What the devil are you talking about?”
“That man Ringle-Smith, sir. He was standing
outside your door with some kind of contraption he’d
plugged in to the radiator point. It was sparking and
whirring like mad. Jones and I reckoned he was up
to some mischief, so we just grabbed him and tossed
him out, and his gadget after him. It fell on the stairs
and burst like a packet of crackers. He gathered the
pieces up and yelled back at us Tell the—er—the fat
old fool that he’ll feel the effects in twenty-four
hours! ’ ”
Mr. Hercott went suddenly cold. What the devil
did Ringle-Smith do with that machine? A lunatic
inventor with a grievance would stop at nothing. A
sense of panic invaded him, but he controlled it.
“Thank you, Hannigan,” he said coldly. “You
did the right thing. See that the man does not enter
the office again. I am going out now and will not be
back till after lunch. Tell Mr. Walker to ring Mel-
bourne as usual; and fix up that contract of Shaylor’s.”
A S he left the office for the lift Mr. Hercott noted,
with a shudder, portion of some mechanism lying
at the head of the stairs. But a little later, leaning
comfortably back in an easy chair at the Billions
Club, a stiff whisky beside him, he felt better. Ringle-
Smith be damned! The man hadn’t the spirit of a
louse. The whole thing was bluff. He put it from
his mind. Two members near at hand were talking.
“I tell you, professor, it puts a new aspect on the
notion of ‘mass.’ If what this man says is true it is
possible to vary mass quite simply by varying the
electric field in its neighborhood—in other words, to
alter the normal weight of any substance.”
Hercott snorted with disgust. Scientists with their
jargon! University professors! What right had they
in a businessman’s club? All sorts of freaks were
getting in lately. The men went on talking. “What
did you say the man’s name was?”
“Ringle-Smith. An inventor, I believe. Now
the concept of ‘mass’ ”
But Hercott did not wait to hear more. He left
the club as hurriedly as his bulk would allow. The
mention of Ringle-Smith’s name had revived his former
fears. He solved them in a heavy lunch, got back
to his office, did a lucky stroke of business, and went
home in a cheerful mood.
That night he felt particularly well, ate a huge
dinner, went to bed early and slept a remarkably
heavy sleep. Next morning he had forgotten Ringle-
Smith entirely. He entered his office blithely and
passed to his inner sanctum. A little later Miss Cressy,
his secretary, went in with the correspondence as
usual. She came rushing out, her customary aloof
air and diction vanished, screaming “For God’s sake,
have a look at the boss! He’s taken a stroke or some-
thing!”
Members of the staff, pushing eagerly in, found
the big man slumped in his desk chair, hands out-
spread on the desk, purple in the face, eyes set fixedly,
and breathing in slow gasps.
“Get a doctor—no, a taxi!” shouted Walker, the
head clerk. We’ll get him home. Ring his house,
Hannigan, and tell them to have a doctor there. Give
me a hand, Jones, to lift him to that couch.”
They each took an arm and tugged and strained ;
but Hercott was immovable. “Good Lord, he’s
heavy! gasped Walker. Young Hannigan, who fan-
cied himself as an amateur weight-lifter, now added
his strength to the combined pull, with as little effect.
“He seems to weigh a ton,” panted Jones. “What-
ever, can have happened to him?”
“Cripes, the old bloke’s glued to his chair!” piped
the office boy, and was promptly kicked out. That,
however, gave Hannigan an idea. He seized Hercott’s
chair from below and gave a mighty heave. The chair
suddenly slipped sideways from under Hercott, and
Hannigan fell backwards with it.
The result was astounding. Hercott fell to the
floor like a mass of lead. The impact shook the
building, plaster showered from the ceiling, the floor-
boards split beneath him and he lay wedged in the
splintered crater his weight had made.
Men came pouring up from the office below,
adding to the curious excited crowd round Mr.
Hercott, »but they could do nothing. A combined pull
on the fallen magnate proved as fruitless as former
efforts. Walker collapsed in a chair, almost weeping
over the plight of his chief. “Can’t someone suggest
a way to get him out?” he pleaded.
“I can,” said a newcomer in a quiet voice.
“Ringle-Smith!” gasped Walker.
“At your service. This man now weighs approxi-
mately sixteen tons. Send for a travelling crane, knock
the wall out of the building, attach a belt, hook and
chain, and heave him out as you would a steel safe
or locomotive.”
Eyes goggled, but no one replied to this extra-
ordinary suggestion, so Ringle-Smith went on. “As an
alternative I suggest that you leave me alone with
him for five minutes. His plight is an electrical matter,
and only I understand it. Do this, and I promise to
restore him to normal. Otherwise you’ll have his
corpse on your hands. He’s settling slowly through
the floor. If he crashes below he’ll be shattered —and
probably so will the building!”
HTHERE seemed nothing else for it. The crowd filed
out and left Hercott alone with the inventor.
“Now, Hercott, how do you enjoy my little scientific
joke?” chuckled Ringle-Smith. “To talk, hold your
breath a few seconds. The extra expulsive effort
works the heavy vocal cords, you know.”
“You —damned—scoundrel!” exploded Hercott.
“Ditto to you. Or shall we say two successful
businessmen? I’ve become one overnight. I’m now
going to do a little business with you re the Ringle-
Smith electric globe. For my full rights, twenty thou-
sand pounds. Show me where your chequebook is.
I’ll fill in the amount, and show you how to sign it.”
“I’ll—see —you—damned—first! ”
“No, no, my dear chap, it’s the other way about.
I’ll see your damnation first. To be precise, in a few
minutes ; you’re half-way through the ceiling below
now.”
A look of helpless rage flashed over Hercott’s
face. He gasped out the necessary directions, Ringle-
Smith made out the cheque, got Hercott’s left hand
clasped on his right wrist and slowly, ponderously, the
signature was made out.
“And now,” said the inventor, “call in your man
Walker and tell him to hop up to the bank, cash this
amount and transfer it to my account. We business-
men are a bit treacherous. You might stop payment,
you know.”
Hercott gasped out the directions to goggle-eyed
Walker, who left with the cheque, and then panted,
“Your promise! You said you’d get me out of this!”
“Dear me, I forgot to tell you. My machine for
creating a local gravitational field was a chance com-
bination of gadgets. I’ve quite forgotten the hook-
up. To lessen your weight I’d only to reverse the cur-
rent through it. But your man Hannigan hopelessly
smashed the apparatus when he threw me out yester-
day.”
“You mean—l’ll stay like this —for ever?”
“ Till Walker comes back,” replied the inventor
cryptically.
Walker eventually arrived, his mission accom-
plished, and handed the credit slip to Ringle-Smith.
Hercott, rolling piteous eyes, again implored for
release.
“Get up, you fool,” shouted the inventor. “The
effect’s been off the last five minutes. It could only
last a couple of hours anyhow!”
Shakily the magnate, helped by the obsequious
Walker, rose from his crater of splinters and tottered
to a chair. “Ringle-Smith, you scoundrel!” he sud-
denly shouted in his normal voice. “I’ll have you
prosecuted for this!”
“Hercott, you scoundrel,” retorted the other, “I
don’t doubt it, but a brighter idea would be to take
me into partnership.”
The new firm of Ringle-Smith .and Hercott is
noted for its shrewd deals and close-to-the-bone coups,
but so far the partners have skilfully evaded trouble
in the courts. Hercott has now dieted himself down
to eleven stone. Sometimes at lunch friends ask his
previous weight, and he replies “Sixteen.”
“Stone?”
“Tons!”
Then everyone laughs except Hercott, who goes
on eating his lettuce and vinegar, for, after all, it is
not his joke but his partner’s—and of late Ringle-
Smith has gone back to his electrical experiments once
more.
THESE DIHBOLICAL DIARIES
BY “TUROAR.”
MY family signalised Christmas Day by present-
ing me with a diary, one of those suede-
covered things lettered in blue and gold which
you can slip handily into a vest pocket.
I was at first delighted with what I considered a
charming gift. Now I realise that my relatives couldn’t
have done anything worse or crueller. The only benefit
I have received from the diary is the solution of a
problem which, up to then, had greatly puzzled me.
I had often remarked on the queer fact that all
busy people possessed diaries of either the office or
pocket type and asked myself why it should be. I
know now it was no coincidence. As soon as a man
gets a diary the diary gets him. He is instantly meta-
morphosed into a busy man. That he had previously
led the idlest of existences makes not the slightest dif-
ference. Once he has a diary he is doomed.
The trouble with diaries is that they are packed
with directions, notes, tables, hints, rates, instructions,
rules, guides, formulae and information of every kind.
Consider my own case. I was a normal man,
loving nothing more than doing nothing at each and
every opportunity. Yet within five minutes of getting
my diary on Christmas morning I was a being reft
relentlessly of contented idleness.
The first page, entitled “Identification,” had three
blank spaces respectively headed “My name is,” “My
address is” and “In case of accident or serious illness
please notify.” I quickly understood I was required
to fill in these spaces, but—for lam a thoughtful
person what in heaven for? Why should I have to
make a record of my own name and address, some-
thing with and in which I both eat and sleep? I could
comprehend those facts being noted in someone else’s
diary the landlord’s, for instance, or the wireless in-
stalment collector’s —but not in my own.
As for the third —“In case of accident or serious
illness please notify”—why the publishers did not
go on and finish it with “the nearest doctor” I do not
know. Perhaps they think that all owners of diaries
are doctors.
Pondering over that first page spoilt Christmas
Day for me. Intent on the three blank spaces, I forgot
to look for any thrippences in the pudding and missed
two rounds from the nine-gallon I had brought home"
the day before.
Next to Identification is a list of “Fixed and
Movable Festivals,” St. George’s Day, Ash Wednes-
day and all the rest. I had not known there were such
things as movable festivals, except going fishing with
a party of the boys. Nor, as a sensible man would
expect, does the diary provide a list of handy pubs
from one to another of which you could move the
festival as and if desired.
The toil incumbent on Movable Festivals —the
continual chasing round the pubs to make sure you
are not missing one —pales into insignificance, how-
ever, besides that pertaining to Postal Information, of
which there are eight pages in my diary.
A typical example is the item declaring that for
one penny per ounce it is possible to send patterns or
samples to all places within the British Empire or
fractions thereof. I first had to compile a list of all
such places; then I had to find the patterns or
samples. Remembering that this is the off-season for
agricultural shows you will get an idea of the job.
Another heavy burden of work is imposed by
the “Rates of Exchange” arranged in alphabetical
order from Argentina to Yugoslavia. Strangely, three
countries are omitted—China, Iceland and Tibet.
With bitter irony I ask why. If I must start exchang-
ing with other countries I might as well make a
thorough job of it.
My big problem in exchange is the medium.
Until the kids’ moneyboxes give out I am doing a
fair job with pennies and ha’pennies, mostly the latter.
All the same, the strain of rendering ha’pennies into
ticals for Siam and drachmas for Greece and so on is
worse than working out your income tax.
Following on the Rates of Exchange is the “Useful
Information.” Here you learn anything from how
many pins can be made from a ton of steel to what
to do in the event of apoplexy. As a consequence I
am continually dashing off to resuscitate the appar-
ently drowned, revive the seemingly poisoned or
loosen the clothing of the fainting.
And when I am not so engaged, I am stepping
around all the circles of my acquaintance, for there
is a useful note stating that to find the diameter of a
circle you multiply the circumference by .31831, and
before I can do any multiplying I’ve got to find the
circumference first. Then I multiply the answer by
3.1416 in order to make sure I stepped the circum-
ference correctly in the first place.
All the foregoing, however, bad though it is, is
but a pipe-opener to the diary’s main purpose, the
recording of appointments and reminders for each
day of the year.
My diary provides space for ten appointments a
day; that is, 3650 appointments a year, bar leap year.
Being an ordinary man, I shall have to make my
dentist, my doctor, my lawyer and my s.p. man bear
the brunt of it all. And, though I can’t be worried by
their troubles, they may get rather peeved at having to
make two and a half appointments with me every day.
Of course, being such a busy man, I should find it
impossible to keep these appointments ; so as soon as
I have finished thinking up reasons to make them I
will have to start inventing excuses for dodging them.
I don’t know how I am going to get everything done.
But I do know that the end of the year will see the
end of my toil. I cannot wangle it with this diary ;
but the very first entry I shall make in my new diary
will be: “Reminder: burn this dam’ thing at once.”


children culled from every class in the community. A
special feature of the book is the beautiful, numerous
and well-printed photographs.
A Feminine "Ulysses."
Dorothy Richardson has given her life to the
making of one book. It has just achieved its twelfth
volume, and, as far as can be seen, there is no reason
why it should end there.
Pilgrimage (Dent ; Cresset Press) is the life story
of a woman, Miriam, the actual events of which could
be enumerated quite easily on a postcard. Miriam
travels to Switzerland —surely the longest train journey
in all literature —returns to England, passes through
an infinitely subtle entanglement of love, brushes
against the social questions of the day, and is still
going forward.
Events matter very little, and they are so deeply
embedded in the substance of the book as to be almost
imperceptible. It is the exquisitely sensitive reproduc-
tion of the surface of life and of all those layers of
memory and feeling that lie immediately beneath per-
ception in a highly-organised human being that makes
Pilgrimage outstanding. The reader feels that Miriam
is the author’s doppelganger, not herself but her other
self, and although the book is written in the third
person it has the intimacy and immediacy of the first
person.
It owes something perhaps to Proust and some-
thing to James Joyce, but that does not prevent it
from being sharply original in the sense of being an
image of life at first hand. It is sensuous in an ex-
quisite and fastidious way, feminine in quality and
so keenly realised in every detail that the written
word practically coalesces with the physical or emo-
tional experience described. Its stream of consciousness,
so delicate and transparent, is never for a moment
muddied or perturbed. Twelve volumes cannot blunt
the cutting edge of the author’s mind.
The reader’s chief and most sustained pleasure in
reading Pilgrimage is in the acclamation that every
page, almost every paragraph, wrings from him : “That
is true ; that is exactly how I would have felt.” Any-
one who has known the commonplace experience of
alighting from a noisy train at a wayside station will
almost experience relief at finding it so perfectly
recorded:
The solid air began to be intensely cold. B,ut in
its cold there was no bitterness, and it attained only
her face, whose shape it seemed to change. And all
about the station were steep walls of starless darkness
and overhead a blue-black sky, stars oddly small and
numerous, very sharp and near.
Into the exact statement there is always mixed a
little strangeness, a little poetry. It is drawn through
the fine mesh of a highly-perceptive mind, and imagina-
tive values are recorded as well as sensuous ones. Its
prose alone would make Pilgrimage a remarkable
book. The 12 volumes to date are now available in
a four-volume set, packed in a case, complete with a
16-page brochure explaining the work.
Clydebank Romance.
Clyde Valley (Arthur Barker), a first novel by
Catherine Gavin, is a pleasant piece of work >vith the
stamp of youth on it.
Lenny Gordon, the leading character, is -a
shepherd’s daughter who grew up a wild child of
nature in her father’s lonely cottage near the head
waters of the Clyde. She was ambitious, and her first
novel won a prize offered by a Glasgow publisher,
Sir Frederick Carmichael. He took her into his office
and fostered her talent. When the old man died his
son Kennedy, a professional soldier, inherited the
business—and Lenny. Their first meeting strikes a
chord: —•
Then she heard a train creep up on the other side,
and looking round saw that the express itself had
been stopped. She was looking into a first-class com-
partment, where a tall man, his hair shining under the
light, was standing by the open window. His hands,
in pale hogskin gloves, were clenched on the 5i11....
Thus, on that black eve of Hogmanay, above the dark
river, Lenny Gordon and Kennedy Carmichael saw
each other first.
They worked together in the office and through
a by-election in which Kennedy successfully contends
for his late father’s seat. They fall in love. (At first
kiss Lenny swoons right away.) But Kennedy already
has a hard, indifferent, fashionable wife. They try
to say good-bye for ever, but can’t, and at last Ken-
nedy determines to ask his wife to divorce him, though
it will mean the end of his career in Parliament and
the army. ,
Lenny’s side of the affair is complicated by the
rigid piety of her parents, who consider divorce the
rankest sin and have already disowned their only
son, the pride of their hearts, because he married a
divorcee. Incidentally, the mother, a monster of self-
righteous jealousy, is the best character in the book.
Things happen until Kennedy is drowned and
Lenny is left to repair her broken life by taking refuge
in her gift for writing.
To this ingenuous tale the author has given a
background of modern Glasgow, its sufferings when
the shipbuilding industry is depressed, its swing back
to normality when work on the giant Cunarder
whose vast shape broods over the narrative is re-
sumed. The book is hardly a success, but there is
the feeling that the author might do much better
when her talents have matured.
Unrest on the Farms.
D. J. Hall’s first novel, No Retreat, was set in
Rumania, his second, Perilous Sanctuary, in New
Mexico, but now in his third, This Other Eden
(Harrap), he brings his muse home. .
Not only is the setting, the Berkshire-Wiltshire
border, “the cradle of England,” but in the times, 1830,
15 years after the end of the Napoleonic wars, a
period of intense economic unrest, Hall sees a rough
parallel to the present.
The story is taken direct from history and deals
with an obscure peasant rising out of which Lord
Melbourne made a ruthless example. In 1830 an
agricultural laborer’s wages were seven shillings a
week, food was scarce and dear, and savage game
laws which could transport a man for 14 years and
even hang him for supplementing his larder by poach-
ing did not help much. When, added to this, the
laborers saw themselves being thrown into unemploy-
ment by reaping and threshing machines, they rose in
desperation, smashed some machines and burnt a
few ricks. The military quelled the disturbance and
135 prisoners were condemned to hanging or trans-
portation.
Hall dramatises these happenings in a little group
of characters: Sir John Benham, an average squire,
who, without being cruel or tyrannous, cannot see
the men’s point of view ; Raymond Hope, his nephew,
who is experimenting in co-operative agriculture as a
remedy for social ills ; William Winterbourne, a man
unjustly dispossessed of his land by the system, who
becomes the embittered leader of the peasants ; Mark
Oakley, Winterbourne’s friend, an independent crafts-
man of the village.
The slow fomenting of trouble, the battle of
characters as well as of ideas, the crisis of the rising
and its tragic end make the framework of the novel.
The strongest scene is that in which Raymond Hope
offers Winterbourne a solution of all his personal
difficulties —a co-operative farm on his estate —and
Winterbourne 'refuses it because he cannot desert his
mates or the soil on which he grew up. This is the
only moment in which the book takes fire and the
characters really live. For the rest it is like a well-
planned and well-written tract. The characters are
created to illustrate the varying viewpoints of the time.
The natural scene, as always in Hall’s books, is
beautifully portrayed, and the furnishings—among
which may be numbered the female characters —are
accurately depicted. It is a well-considered book as
far as its argument is concerned, but all this worthi-
ness and earnestness cannot make it live.
Hall is a romantic still, albeit a romantic dabbling
in realism. Hope and Winterbourne are both heroes
in the romantic tradition. Hope’s love for his cousin
Cordelia, his reluctance to speak because his fortune
does not match hers, her innocent wiles to bring him
to the point and her pure devotion are all of the
romantic vintage.
Nor can Hall resist a happy ending. Winter-
bourne dies in noble resignation, but a newer and
happier world is born. Hope creates his little Utopia
with the help of Cordelia, and Oakley, returning from
penal servitude, marries Winterbourne’s widow, whom
he had always secretly loved.
Othello in Khaki.
As Humphrey Chesterman’s novel Bolden
(Harrap) carries the sub-title, “A Novel of a Modern
Othello,” and opens in India, the reader not unnatur-
ally expects to meet a dark gentleman, but the con-
nection with the Moor of Venice is that of jealousy,
not color.
Captain Bolden, a competent and popular officer,
brought a young wife, Madge, to the frontier station
at Chamkanni. They were very happy until he went
away for a month’s elephant hunting in Burma. In
his absence Madge spent a good deal of her time with
a young flying officer, Neill Montague —and the sta-
tion began to talk.
Madge was no Desdemona, and it was not her
fault that the friendship remained as completely inno-
cent as it was. When her husband returned, however,
Madge was quite willing to forget Neill, but she was
afraid that some of the malicious gossip that she knew
was going about would reach his ears. She deter-
mined to forestall it, but in her nervousness her ex-
planation sounded like a confession and suspicion
entered her husband’s mind for the first time. He tried
to suppress it, but it found fuel for itself in a score
of details.
Summer came and the wives left for the hills. In
loneliness, discomfort and exasperation Bolden’s
jealousy festered. A film at the garrison theatre
chimed in all too well with his own story. He dis-
covered what he thought was evidence against his
wife and, getting leave, rushed to the hills to confront
her with it. Madge told him that she was going to
have a baby. He denied paternity and returned to
the station with the fixed intention of shooting Neill.
Madge telegraphed Montague to warn him, and
the wire arrived just as he was setting out on forma-
tion flying practice. He crashed and was killed, but
whether or not the telegram was a contributing factor
is left to the imagination. Madge, unable to convince
her husband, died in giving birth to her baby.
There the book might well have ended, but the
author has, ill-advisedly, added another story to it.
Bolden, on leave, visited Germany and fell in love a
second time with an English girl student, Judie Hender-
son. After being rather dazzled by the older man’s
attentions Judie decided that she loved a fellow-stu-
dent, Paul Montague. The coincidence of the names
was too much for Bolden’s reason ; he trapped the boy
into suicide and then disappeared.
The two melodramas neutralise one another, and
the second half of the book spoils the effect of the
first, which, standing alone, would have been a quite
convincing piece of work.
Chesterman knows his India —he served there in
the R.A.F. —and his pictures of Indian life ring true.
There is not too much of the sahib touch, and at least
the white man’s burden is not romanticised. He
offers a glimpse of the caste system that is significant
of his attitude:
A caste system prevailed in the cinema: Indians
occupied the benches in front; British soldiers sat
behind them on hard-seated chairs without arms; still
further to the rear were chairs with arms for the
n.c.os. and warrant-officers; and at the back of the
hall was a raised dais on which sofas and easy chairs
were arranged for the officers.
Bolden is a first novel.
History of Literature.
William A. Amiet’s Courses in Literary History
(Angus and Robertson, Ltd.) is not intended for
general reading, but should be extremely useful to
the specialist and the student. His aim, tersely accom-
plished, is to enumerate the literary histories of the
world.
No language of any importance —not even
Esperanto —is omitted. Australia and Maoriland are
mentioned ; the Asiatic and European literatures, and
such oddments as Nicaraguan and Faroese. Mr.
Amiet lists only books that are fairly readily accessible.
Quoting half a dozen Australian literary histories, he
says that Maoriland letters so far have been neglected
by the historian. Perhaps someone is brooding over
such a work for the centenary.
Mr. Amiet has done a good work, incidentally, in
listing a number of books of interest which are nor-
mally encountered only by the student; there is an
American Negro Poets and Their Poems, C. F.
Cox well’s Russian Poems in English, an Outline of the
Japanese Drama and a “beautifully illustrated”
Masterpieces of Japanese Poetry. Jack Lindsay on
the medieval Latinists and James Cowan on the Maoris
are not unknown, but the translated Poetry of the
Afghans was one out of the box.
Reviewed Briefly.
Youngsters’ Fare . . .
The Wonder Book of Would You Believe It ?
(Ward, Lock). If anything, a shade better than its
forerunners, this year’s issue of the now famous annual
deals with all sorts of curiosities of the world past
and present —strange people, plants, animals, insects,
fish, birds, boats, buildings ; not freaks so much as
wonderful achievements of creation. Finely illus-
trated, chiefly with photographs, there are few publi-
cations that can be so unreservedly recommended.
The Compass Points North: M. E. Atkinson
(Bodley Head). Another capital novel for boys or
girls by the author of Mystery Manor, set this time
round about the Scottish Border. A good piece of
writing and packed with adventure.
The Picture Book of the Wild West (Ward, Lock).
Bronco-bustin’, steer-throwin’, Red Indians and other
ranch affairs, told mainly by large colored pictures.
Tiptop pasture for boys up to about Q.C. age.
The Circus Is Coming: Noel Streatfield (Dent).
Plenty of reading—and good reading —for boys or
girls up to 15 or more in this pleasantly told account
of two youngsters who run away to avoid going
into an orphanage, join their uncle who clowns in a
circus, and thenceforth enjoy the adventures of circus
life, moving from place to place by caravan.
Characters are good and general atmosphere excellent.
Tales from the Storyteller’s House: Thornton
Burgess (Bodley Head). A book as charming as its
title. The stories are of deer, rabbits and other of the
gentler creatures, very prettily told. Illustrations in
color by Lemuel Palmer are uncommonly lovely, ex-
quisitely designed and drawn. For any youngster—or
home, for that matter —with a taste for graceful
beauty.
There’s a Story to Tell: Blanche Winder (Ward,
Lock). Old and New Testament stories, with 24 large
color plates.
Larky Legends: Norman Hunter (Bodley Head).
Told through the 8.8. C., and the best fare to hand
this year for youngsters endowed with a sense of
humor.
The fifteenth Duke of Squelchways sat with the
Duchess in Squelchways Castle, staring at rows ot
paintings of bygone Dukes of Squelchways. And the
more they looked at them the more they didn t like
thC '“They’re worth a lot of money,” murmured the
Duke
“Then why don’t we sell them?” said the Duchess.
“My dear!” protested the Duke, “one can’t sell
the family portraits. It simply isn’t done. Besides,
nobody would buy them. I’ve already tried.
Told in that vein the stories are bright and lively
entertainers, with tiptop adventure and other quality
apart from the humor.
General . . .
Through Lands of the Bible: H. V. Morton
(Methuen). Will need no recommending to those
who liked In the Steps of the Master. Morton here
undertakes a Christian pilgrimage from the Euphrates
to the Nile and into Sinai, eking out his account by
putting in the background of Bible and history to
what of Christian note is thereabouts to be seen to-day.
The Verge of Lakeland: William T. Palmer
(Hale, Ltd.). About the English Lake country, by
one who evidently knows it and its historical asso-
ciations very thoroughly. A plain record without
literary trimmings.
The Mountain Way : edited by R. L. G. Irving
(Dent). Another of the several excellent anthology
books done by Dent’s this year. This one is 600-odd
pages of selections from all manner of writings about
mountains, as seen from secure footing or in pre-
cariously climbing them. It makes a book of both
beauty and excitement that should have something of
a religious appeal to all mountain-climbers and will
hold the interest, too, of anyone who likes travel and
adventure reading.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
A FORT
FORT BELVEDERE.


“....FLAMES NEW DISASTER FOR THE RACE OR CAN IT BE THE DAWN?”
“The foreign policy of the Government has been right. The Labor party’s attitude would have involved us in war simultaneously with Japan, Italy and Germany, and,
perhaps, with Franco’s Spain... .We are going to Rome with the general desire to improve relations by a better understanding of one another’s point of view, and through
personal contact to strengthen confidence between us—confidence which must necessarily contribute to general stability.”—Chamberlain.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street. London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d :
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2s ;
3 months. 11s.
HATE OR FRIENDSHIP?
Twelve months ago The Bulletin pointed out that
1938 would be the hundredth year of German settle-
ment in Australia, and suggested that a gift of farm
produce to the poor of Germany during the northern
winter would be an appropriate way of commemorat-
ing it. The amount of £lOO,OOO Australian was men-
tioned ; during the hundred years distressed Austra-
lians of British descent have received the equivalent
of that, and more, from good-hearted Australians of
German descent in their happy and well-kept homes.
There is no lack of goodwill at Canberra, but
there is lack of imagination ; so The Bulletin was
not astonished when its suggestion was ignored. Yet
such a gift, offered and received in the right spirit,
would have been one of the incidents of 1938 to which
both nations could look back with unalloyed pleasure.
And the effect in Germany might conceivably have
been greater and more lasting than the impressions
produced by our Government’s defence programme,
with its increase of expenditure by fits and starts, and
by Mr. Hughes’s performances as a seventy-four-year-
old recruiting sergeant.
Another northern winter has set in, very severely
by all accounts, and the Germans are again reported
short of foodstuffs of which Australia has a super-
abundance: wheat and wheaten flour, butter, eggs,
beef, mutton and fruit. In some quarters, judging by
headlines, Australians are expected to rejoice at this,
but those who harbor such notions of Australians
don’t know them. It is not in their nature to rejoice
at the spectacle or idea of hunger in any part of
the human family; on the contrary, it has always
been their instinct and practice to give a hungry person
“a feed.” Even now the great majority of them would
approve if the Government could find a way of send-
ing a cargo of wheat and wheaten flour, butter, eggs,
beef, mutton and fruit to the poor of Germany, irre-
spective of race or locality. Unfortunately, with “war
thundering at our gates,” the Government on
December 8 put Parliament out of action “for Christ-
mas,” and may not call it together till “some time in
March.”
Of course, Australians are told repeatedly, in
newspaper articles, radio broadcasts and stump
speeches, that it is their duty to hate Germany, and
also Italy and Japan. These countries are very formid-
able military Powers, and, as Mr. Chamberlain and
Count Ciano have informed us, they would have been
allies had it come to war in September. But hate is
the “policy” to which the maddest mischief-makers
would commit us, although none of the three coun-
tries has done any part of the British Commonwealth
any actual harm, and although Australians are natur-
ally a friendly people whose national interests would
be served by a foreign policy as friendly and unafraid
as that of the Swiss, the Danes and the Swedes.
The head and front of the hate campaign is the
N. S. Wales Labor Council. Strangely enough, this
very concern wanted to quit when the Germans were
winning the Great War. In the eleventh volume of
the Official History, Ernest Scott has preserved the
resolution it adopted after the Germans had crushed
Russia and Rumania, had defeated the Italians at
Caporetto and invaded Italy, had worsted the British
and French armies and were on the Marne again:
On May 16 [l9lB] the Sydney Labor Council resolved,
after protracted debate, that “the greatest service we can
render to the men at the front, their loved ones at home
and humanity in general is to stop the war.
Had this Labor Council had its way it would have
had to sing small for the rest of its existence where
Germany is concerned. The war having been wop for
it by valiant men, it considers itself free, through its
various organs, to denounce Italians as gangsters, Ger-
mans as murderers, Japanese as butchers, Mr. Cham-
berlain as an associate and Mr. Lyons as a tool of
bandits—this in the intervals of laughing loudly at
Ministers’ efforts to prepare Australia for the possible
consequences of its policy.
When Mr. Hughes, replying to Dr. Goebbels,
quoted a Burns couplet that every child knows (“O
wad some power the giftie gie us Tae see oorsel’s as
ithers see us”), the Labor Council’s sheet, now called
the “Daily News,” boisterously announced that he
had called the “deformed fanatic and sadist” a
“louse” ; and the old Minister’s protest was met with
a repetition of the insult, with impudence added. The
new Postmaster-General, for his part, was stigmatised
as a humble instrument of Dr. Asmis, the German
Consul-General, whose deportation was noisily de-
manded, with additions so abusive that the Prime
Minister felt obliged to apologise.
Variations on these themes were nightly bellowed
from the Labor Council’s broadcasting statiop, 2KY.
After due warning, Mr. Cameron retaliated by sus-
pending its license; and there straightway arose
agonised squeals which were heard throughout the
Commonwealth.
But of all the hate-mongers the Sydney “Morning
Herald’’ is the most influential, because of its past
and because of the public to which it appeals. Since the
Czechs and Slovaks accepted the inevitable, the
“Herald”—which positively announced that their
“virile republic” was about to have a proud celebra-
tion of its twentieth birthday, and in serene reliance
on its powerful allies was ready to fight—has been
beside itself with rage. In special articles and
editorials, as in cables, nothing is too bad for it to
say about the Italian and German Governments. On
the word of “an Austrian refugee now in Sydney,”
it alleges that fifty victims of the Nazis, of whom its
“refugee” was one, were confined for a month “in
a room which would normally be considered big
enough for four,” overworked, nearly starved, mal-
treated “and shot down like rabbits” when*goaded
into striking “the guards.” Among them was:
One of the highest Judges in Austria. His teeth
had been knocked out, his nose was broken, his ribs
were fractured and one of his ears had been torn off.
There were many respected businessmen there, as
well as high officials, lawyers and doctors, including one
whose name and learning, as well as his generosity and
humaneness, were renowned far over the borders.
No names or places are mentioned, which is just
as well. But there is a reference to a “young Nazi,”
who “gave me two cigarettes and matches.”
The fifty of us smoked these cigarettes with great
pleasure after midnight.
Fifty “of us” smoked two cigarettes! But it is
time to turn to Memel, which “now more nearly
resembles a plum ripe for German plucking.”
The technique employed to secure its return is likely
soon to be applied to Danzig and eventually to the
Ukraine... .The Czechoslovakian territory had never
belonged to Germany. Grievances of the Memel
Germans, who number about one-half the population,
are being magnified.
The truth is that the districts handed back to the
Germans are traditionally German. Carlsbad and
Marienbad are as German as Bath is English. The
Sudetenland was German when the first James’s
son-in-law was driven out of it, and German when
the French beat the Austrians in 1805—incidentally,
the defeated Emperor was “Emperor of Germany”
to them and to all Europe. As for Memel, it was
founded in 1252 by the Grand Master of the Teutonic
Order, and it was the last refuge of the King of
Prussia after the French victories in 1806.
Of the makeshift State called Lithuania, the
Statesman’s Year-Book says:
The Lithuanian Government claims that Lithuania
consists of (6) the territory of Klaipeda (Memel).
The assertion that the Memel Germans number about
one-half the population was answered on December
17 by the “Morning Herald” itself in one of its cables.
The official result of the Memel election was that
the Germans won 25 seats and the Lithuanians four.
Some regard for contemporary facts and a nod-
ding acquaintance with history should surely be part
of the equipment for even a hate campaign.
Passing Show of 1938.
At a general glance it must appear that Lord Nuffield
was as far astray last January in predicting “brighter
times” for 1938 as his namesake was in the Mel-
bourne Cup. But the year had its brighter moments,
with the bulk of people bearing up remarkably well,
considering the prodigious increase in professional
Jeremiahs and such steadying disclosures as that the
earth, as well as narrowly avoiding a visitation of
Mars in September, had narrowly missed collision
with a planet, named the Runaway Planet, in October
of the previous year.
Tipsters of all kinds were much discredited by
events. Taking the year through, they all had far the
worst of it, including those who, once a fortnight,
predicted the return of Mr. Eden to the British Cabinet,
or, less frequently but more expansively, that he would
shortly succeed Mr. Chamberlain. Then there were
those who, in a month heavy with fate, failed by only
a matter of hours to bring off a prophecy of such long
standing that it is now permanently established and
taken for granted, like any other classic. The deep
disappointment of these prophets would seem to have
been definitely expressed by a racing tipster who, in a
moment of insupportable gloom, poisoned himself.
Impervious to his example, those prophets who
operate in the sphere of international affairs have given
off so much heat that the whole atmosphere has be-
come affected, one striking result being that Sydney
lately suffered the most appalling elemental roasting
in its experience. To the same overheating might
perhaps be attributed the things Mr. Thorby has been
saying about Mr. Curtin.
Good fuel for the universal furnace has been
provided at small cost or gratis by press, radio, films,
politicians and professors of most countries ; special
awards for notable stoking to Mr. Semple, of Maori-
land, embracing the leaders of two nations in the
generous term “mad dogs,” and Mr. Gallacher, of
Great Britain, calling a party leader in another country
“a butcher.” This last may or may not have guided
the aim of a Canberra lady who hit a butcher with
a stick she had thrown at a dog; but all such utter-
ances —and the year has been singularly prolific in
them —have helped to confirm the conviction of the
growing number who believe that nothing else is
wrong with the world except that it has been
anaesthetised with hot air and has had its sense of
humor removed.
Support for this idea might seem to be provided
by such matters as Herr Hitler sending greetings to
the Robert Burns Society, a New South Wales youth
sentenced to two months for kissing a girl, Bernard
Shaw’s refusal to play marbles and a young man in
Victoria drowning himself in a waterhole, though em-
ployed in a brewery. Perhaps, too, it says more for
the wide distribution of the maternal instinct than
for prevalence of a sense of humor that a man in
Maoriland should have kept an egg in bed with him
for 25 days until he hatched a chicken out of it; and
Gandhi, joining the legions of tipsters by predicting,
in April, his death within a year, might not be con-
sidered conclusive evidence of a true sense of fun.
Also there were such similar borderline cases over
the year as the stripping of an anti-Nazi editor in
U.S.A. and painting him with swastikas ; a student in
Iraq shooting at his examiners before committing
suicide ; an Italian in Paris shaking a fist at a figure
of Mussolini before doing himself in with a dagger ;
a Viennese inventor constructing an electric-chair
and electrocuting himself in it; and a man in Sydney
climbing a 170 ft. wireless mast to pinch an electric-
light globe.
A man at Wollongong (N.S.W.) who was hit on
the head with a bottle gave possible proof of possess-
ing a sense of humor by surviving the news that he
had been a victim of mistaken identity, and some sense
of fun must have been present to sustain a man who,
in the same State’s French’s Forest, fired at a snake and
shot himself. Evidence of the right sort present also
in the record of such happenings as a visiting All-
Black being recognised by a monkey at Taronga Zoo,
and an Irishman at Darwin escaping from his cell,
borrowing money from a local John Hop for drinks,
and then returning to the hatch (case dismissed).
Political circles, though generally giving heavy
support to the notion of a world robbed of its funny-
bone, contributed a few saving touches, among them
the spectacle of a New South Wales M.L.A. pursuing
and catching a thief who had stolen his trousers ; an
all-in fight at a U.A.P. meeting ; the destruction of
silverfish by gas at Canberra, and a yawn which dis-
located an Adelaide woman’s jaw.
Proof either of an astonishingly strong sense of
humor or an extraordinary lack of it appears to reside
in such happenings as a French woman securing
a divorce on the ground of her husband’s snoring ; a
matador continuing to fight during an earthquake in
Mexico ; pickpockets in Egypt agreeing not to operate
on the occasion of the King of Egypt’s wedding ; a
barman in a South African cocktail bar inventing a
new bomb ; two men in Sydney sentenced for robbing
a policeman ; and the fining in the same eventful city
of a woman shoplifter who stole a coat, found that it
did not fit and returned to the shop to change it.
A wide rather than a humorous application might
perhaps be found for the assertion of a doctor that
many people are unconsciously blind in one eye, and
also for the case of a man who, representing himself
as a peace delegate of an international organisation,
rode for 15 hours in a Sydney taxi and was eventually
taken to the reception house. And only Villon, per-
haps, could have properly appreciated the case of a
woman slashed with a razor and an onlooker who
helped to staunch the blood stealing her handbag.
In the other sphere in which the illustrious French-
man exercised his talents Australia had nothing in
the course of the year quite comparable with the 150
killed and 500-odd wounded in riots in Rangoon over
the publication of a book, but the fact that a baby
attacked by a bull at Wingham (N.S.W.) came out of
the engagement uninjured helped to show that in other
respects there is nothing much wrong with the fibre
of the race. That women retain their cunning was
demonstrated by a girl of 15 who deceived five medi-
cal specialists ; the digging up in this same fair land
of a fossil fish 50,000,000 years old was a conclusive
retort to the reported successful growing of peas
which had lain in Tut-ankh-Amen’s tomb for a mere
4000 years; a proper reverence for tradition was
shown both in the performance of the three-card trick
at Randwick and the stealing of a gold brick from a
mining company’s offices: while, as evidence of pro-
gress founded on tradition, there was the bringing of
a sick stockrider from Goodooga to Sydney by ’plane,
and the discovery in the scrub near Gordon (N.S.W.)
of a two-up school with a cafeteria attached.
Against such signs of national well-being it must
be recorded that our four-footed citizens let us down
badly in producing nothing to compare with the
(cabled) account of an Alsatian carrying an SOS for a
Japanese commander and killing eight other dogs en
route, a performance to which that of a greyhound’s
passing the post a winner tail-first can scarcely be
regarded as a satisfactory rejoinder. Neither was the
granting in N. S. Wales courts of 304 divorce decrees
in 17 days a suitable answer to the London perform-
ance of 100 decrees a day ; but the surprise an Eng-
lish congregation experienced when the incumbent in-
troduced dancing after services to ensure brighter
religion must have been at least equalled by the sur-
prise experienced by Australian clergy when one of
their number made his suggestion for brighter religion
by describing their habitual clobber as “drab, dull and
miserable.” The element of surprise in neither of these
cases, however, equalled that experienced by a Mullum-
bimby (N.S.W.) resident through an electric shock,
which caused hair to sprout on his bald head.
Two other matters of note from the passing show
of 1938: (a) Australians achieved the distinction of
being the world’s second-largest consumers of kip-
pered herrings ; ( b ) Mr. W. M. Hughes, visiting New
Guinea, rated by the natives as No. 1 Chief, and since
performing so uncommonly like one that the bells, fog-
horns and tooters presently ushering in the New Year
will need to be in top form to blanket the tom-toms
and war-drums that he, and many with him, conjure
up as the more appropriate tocsins for awakening
unpredictable 1939.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Chamberlain's Perfect Retort.
In the game of gibe-and-retort that constitutes party
politics it has seldom been given to any statesman to
have so perfect an answer for his critics as has
Mr. Chamberlain. To all the points made by Dr.
Dalton, of the Silliest Labor Party in the Empire, by
Sir Archibald Sinclair, of the lost Liberals, by Mr.
Churchill, Mr. Lloyd George and the hostile news-
papers in the last full-dress debate on foreign politics,
Mr. Chamberlain had the unanswerable counter “Your
policy means war!”
It hurts. Sir Archibald at once “disputes” the sug-
gestion. The Last of the Bards “deprecates” it. “S. M.
Herald,” feeling herself wounded, tut-tuts “Those who
are less certain that the Government’s policy has
always been right hardly deserve to be branded as
partisans of war.”
Not one of them has an effective answer to the
charge. Even Sydney “D.T.,” which has shrieked
against Chamberlain as loud as any of them, admits
that “the only possible criticism of Munich would
be that it bought peace to-day at the price of war
under conditions more favorable to the enemy to-
morrow.” Sydney “Sun,” which is sensibly grateful
for peace now and hopeful for its continuance, said
what The Bulletin has said all along: “The
one looks back on the events of 1938, the more one *
must feel thankful that Mr. Chamberlain, and not his
critics, was at the helm of Britain’s foreign policy.”
There is a feeling about Mr. Lloyd George’s
“deprecating” that he objected to the retort not only
from a debating point of view, but because it brought
an ungentlemanly seriousness into party politics.
Naturally, he resents being called a warmonger. But
all he could say in defence was that he doubted
whether the Prime Minister was a match for the
“astute, crafty and unscrupulous dictators.” Even
when the issue is peace or war the old demagogue
can’t resist the false and shabby gibe. Does Lloyd
George expect anyone to believe for one moment that
Chamberlain, himself an able man, hasn’t the advice
of the keenest brains in England?
The truth is that Mr. Chamberlain, not a debater
but a responsible statesman, has transcended the gibe-
and-retort game. If his critics and not he had been
in power in September myriads of people in Britain
and the Dominions who have been celebrating Christ-
mas with their families would be rotting in their graves.
A United Front.
For three days of last week the Sydney broadcasting
station known as 2KY was off the.air. It is con-
trolled by a Red mob, and its attacks on foreign
countries that Moscow hates, and on Australians who
don’t crawl to Moscow, have been unscrupulous, out-
rageous and, in a measure, dangerous. The last
Postmaster-General suffered it to carry on in this
fashion, as well as to make night hideous with the
self-commendation and blatant claims of illiterate louts
of tipsters ; but Mr. Cameron is made of different stuff.
Mr. Cameron warned the station on November
28 that, operating under Government license, as it
was, it wouldn’t be allowed to go on calling all its
aversions everything that occurred to it to say. The
warning was impudently ignored, Red invention being
piled on Red invention and insult on insult. Under
the Wireless Telegraphy Act and regulations, the
Minister is authorised “to revoke or determine any
license by notice in writing,” and this contumacious
licensee was informed that its license was revoked.
Then a curious thing happened. Communists
incessantly clamor for a United Front, and on this
occasion they got one. Our Glorious Press thundered
at the Minister. Newspaper knights whose concerns
control chains of radio stations lined up with Labor
Council Muscovites. At one end of the line were
limelighting U.A.P. politicians ; at the other end were
blatherskites like Denford, secretary of the N.S.W.
Ironworkers, who threatened that all the defence
works would be declared “black’ unless 2KY was
relicensed.
But there were some notable absentees. Mr.
Curtin remained above the battle. Lang Labor
charged in on the other side. Its organ, the “Century,”
came out with an article headed: 2KY DROVE
ITSELF OFF THE AIR. Of Denford’s threat, it
said: “If Cameron’s action is Fascist, this proposed
reply is Communist sabotage.” It went on to refer
to “the gross misuse” of the license “over a long
period.”
Night after night it has been used to smash the
Labor movement, filling the air with false and malicious
abuse of Labor party leaders and with irresponsible and
harmful comment upon national affairs.
The committee controlling 2KY apparently deter-
mined wilfully to risk the Labor Movement’s license in
the cause of the Communist party's foreign policy and
of a petty and vindictive campaign.
In the end it was admitted on the station’s behalf
that it had circulated damaging untruths, and it pub-
lished an apology to the Minister. He thereupon re-
issued the license.
Mr. Cameron did a necessary thing courageously.
But he has touched only the fringe of the commercial
radio business, which will have to receive the early
attention of Parliament.
Why Not British?
“Ysbrantsz”: I saw five vessels carrying 5000
migrants for Libya pull out of Naples on October 30.
The Naples waterfront could not have been better
flagged for a royal procession. Guns boomed, sirens
shrieked and 20,000 spectators waved farewell from
the piers. It was a fine piece of publicity and made
you feel that Italy really was moving south. And
this was only a third of the show, for 10 other vessels
left Genoa the day before, and the whole fleet, carry-
ing 15,000 men, women and children, met at Gaeta
for the voyage.
It was a contrast to the way in which such British
migrants as there are for Australia ooze out of the
country. For that matter there was no fuss about
the Italians who shipped out of Naples for the
Commonwealth, but that was not to be expected. Like
millions of Italians before them they were going
foreign, though, as things are now, Italy can still
spare them.
Italy’s one-day migrants equal the number of
refugees whom the Commonwealth has agreed to
take over the next three years. When and how are
we getting the British migrants to balance the foreign
influx?
While much of the English countryside is cer-
tainly underpopulated there are corners in Scotland
and Wales which could spare people, especially in the
Hebrides and the wShetlands, where trawling threatens
the living of the line fishermen. And as the people
are draining out of the countryside anyhow, would
it not be better for them, and for the Empire, to go
to Australia instead of swelling the population of
London and other already overgrown cities? That
is, of course, if they can be prevented from simply
adding to the congestion of Sydney, Melbourne and
other proportionately even more overgrown cities in
the Commonwealth.
That is just the trouble with many of our foreign
migrants. The Italians and the Greeks who come
here are mostly peasant stock. The Greeks come
largely from Leucas, Cythera and other remote islands.
But in Australia they settle for the most part in the
cities and towns. To do any good in getting the right
kind of British migrants in worth-while numbers the
Commonwealth has to act quickly, in a big way and
on a continent-wide plan. And if we arc not going
to do it our publicists and blowhards might as well
stop talking so much about it.
On Burying the Hatchet.
“Ardrigh” : Captain Ewan Cameron, of the R.M.S.
Orford, is sponsoring a movement for the union of
all the Camerons and then all the clans in the cause
of peace.
The world, the captain says, “is in a mess ; the
League of Nations has failed ; there are Cameron
men in every country. Let all Camerons and all clans-
men work for international brotherhood and a general
burying of the hatchet.”
No clan has done more to earn a bit of peace
than the Cameron clan. Its most famous fighter was
Black Ewan. He was born in 1629 and died at ninety,
with all his teeth and both his eyes in perfect order,
shouting that the Camerons had become a lot of
sissies. Sixty years earlier he had bested Cromwell
in a series of fights so bloody that he had had to tie
a brother to a tree to be sure of preserving an heir
in case of his own decease, and so hard on the ammu-
nition that he had been forced to polish off a stubborn
adversary with his teeth.
It was Black Ewan who —being then 61 —stood
outside the pass of Killiecrankie and advised Dundee
to “fight even if you are only one to three, because
our men’s only fear is that the enemy will escape.”
And he it was who, a minute afterwards, whipped off
his boots and led his men in a torrent against the
astonished and soon-defeated army of General
Mackay. His son, “Gentle Lochiel,” added 800 clans-
men to Prince Charlie’s 400 stragglers at Glenfinnan,
marched on Edinburgh at the head of the 1200, took
the capital and pushed on to Derby. He came back,
gathering Hielanmen in his wake, till he fell wounded
at Culloden.
The Camerons of old were always ready to bury
the hatchet —in somebody else. The supporters of
their arms were two gentlemen with hatchets ; and,
though Herr Kisch could not have translated it, their
slogan in English meant “Sons of the hounds, come
here and get flesh ” The last neck in which an English
king buried a hatchet was that of Dr. Cameron in
1757. But this did not quell their fighting spirit.
The first colonel of the Black Watch, oldest of
Scottish regiments, was a Cameron, and its latest
colonel is a Cameron. The Cameronian Regiment
was founded by a Cameron, and when the Grand Old
Duke of York sought to divide it up its founder said:
“You may tell your father, the King, that he may send
us to hell, and I’ll go at the head of the men ; but he’ll
no drauft us.” And he didn’t.
If there has been any more warlike clan 'than the
Camerons it must have been off this earth. The whole
boiling, including the septs of Clark, Kennedy, Mac-
Phail, Chalmers and Taylor—descended from a
offshoot known as Black Tailleur with the Axe —have
done more than their share of battle, right down to
Queensland’s Donald Cameron and Tasmania’s St.
Clair Cameron—who fought with Roberts at Kandahar
and with Birdwood at Gallipoli—and Archie Galbraith
Cameron, sometime of the 27th Battalion A.I.F.
During a brief career as Commonwealth Minister,
Archie Galbraith Cameron has shown that he is
not afraid to fight the Prime Minister, the Speaker,
lock Garden, the female in industry, the Labor party,
station 2KY or Auld Nick himself.
If Camerons are ready for world peace, as the
almost equally turbulent Norwegians who once block-
aded the borders of Lochaber have shown that they
are, there is hope for the world, and lesser people
need feel no shame in putting away the dirk and
powderhorn.
Fear or Fashion?
“Lord Luvus” goes to a meeting:
I attended the opening of the recruiting campaign in
Melbourne Town Hall. The curtain-raiser was a march ot
1600 militiamen, 800 of them converging on the Town Hall
from one end of Collins-street and 800 from the other, with
bands playing. . .
The hall was crowded, but not as crowded as it is at a
Saturday-night symphony concert.
A double row of important people, with their wives, sat
on the platform, and behind the brown curtain was a military
band in red coats and white topees.
The proceedings followed the lines of the recruiting meet-
ings made familiar during the Boer War and the Great
War, though, in the absence of W. M. Hughes, a picturesque
element was missed. The speakers, especially Mr. Street,
the Minister of Defence, were heckled, and replied in good
platform style. Mr. Lyons repeated his assertion that if the
whole nation did not respond “then let me tell you clearly
that we face disaster.” Mrs. Lyons added an emotional
appeal and got an immediate response from her audience, to
the delight of her lord and master.
The band played a selection and disappeared behind the
curtain, which parted again to disclose the organ and a young
lady who sang “Land of Hope and Glory,” the audience
rising and singing with few exceptions. One exception was
a young man who thought better of his impoliteness when he
found himself surrounded by militiamen. He may have been
the reactionary type of individual who thinks he is demon-
strating some principle by not standing up when the National
Anthem is played.
The impression conveyed to me —I am open to convic-
tion —was of something extraordinarily hollow about the whole
proceedings. Neither the politicians nor the audience gave the
feeling that they were on a ship in the middle ol a cyclone,
which was the impression intended to be conveyed by some
of the speakers. What struck me was that Mr. Lyons and
his colleagues were following a fashion, and that the audience
was responding to their enthusiasm.
There are fashions in national feeling as there are fashions
in art. Almost every intellectual young man and young
woman in Melbourne is wearing a particular kind of yellow
because Van Gogh is in the fashion. If you told
the young men and women that their preference for this
color was conditioned by Van Gogh’s penchant for the same
rather pleasing shade they would think you were insulting
them. But how is the present fashion amongst politicians for
asserting that the country is in peril conditioned by the fact
that newspapers, radio and university professors have been
talking about the frightful perils that are alleged to beset
the countries of Europe?
What is the peril and where is the disaster we are facing?
Are the Japanese coming in our direction or are they pushing
further and further into China? Are we in more danger from
them than they, perchance, may be from America or Russia?
Not a word on the realities of the international situation
was mentioned at the Melbourne recruiting meeting, any more
than anything about the realities of art is even thought of
by the young men and women who wear sunflower-yellow
jumpers and pyjamas. All that the young men and women are
feeling is that they are in the artistic fashion, and, in my
opinion, all that Mr. Lyons is feeling as a politician is that
he is in the political fashion. He no more feels as he and all
of us would feel if a hostile fleet were approaching than he
would feel that a P. and O. liner was sinking if the captain
and officers called a meeting of passengers in the saloon and
told them in a series of addresses, interspersed with selections
from the ship’s orchestra, that the ship was going down.
Aldermen Prefer Elms.
Every year Australian cities become more un-Aus-
tralian in appearance. Buildings follow the latest
fashions of U.S.A., Germany and Britain —sometimes
India —and imported trees are planted.
Sydney’s main streets until a few years ago were
as bare of trees as Sturt’s Stony Desert, save for a few
venerable Norfolk Island pines and some date palms.
Latterly, there has been an orgy of tree-planting. Look
out any window in Darlinghurst and you may see
plane trees from Turkey, varieties of Juglans —butter-
nut and walnut —from U.S.A. and peppertrees from
Athens. Macquarie-street, Bridge-street and other
streets have been recently “decorated” with new
timber —lines of feeble European elms of various
kinds ; elms which in England are being eliminated
from city streets because they tumble down so often.
Last year, in gales and storms, they killed more people
than all the other street trees put together.
It isn’t as if there are not native trees available.
There are at least a dozen in N. S. Wales alone which
would lend both beauty and native character to town
and city streets.
Australian myrtles have big possibilities. The
Eugenia tomlinsi is about the most suitable of them.
A luxuriant, leafy fellow, it changes its leaves in spring,
moving through all the hues of red and brown and
gold to a tint of green which makes European trees
look drab.
It is the flowering trees, however, with which
most could be done. Macquarie-street, Sydney,
ablaze with three-quarters of a mile of flowering
Brachychitons —the acerifolia and the discolor (Illa-
warra flame trees), scarlet and rich dark-pink—would
send home tourists to talk of one of the world’s most
breath-taking sights; and an avenue of full-grown
Lagunarias, in summer flower, would be something
to stick in the memory.
This good N. S. Welshman favors a silver-grey
hue for his leaves. He is a Digger among trees when
he is bare of blossom, standing straight and wiry and
tall. In early summer he comes out all over in a
rash of delicately-pink blossoms, a sight of matchless
beauty. In long avenues he would be superb.
There are other trees worth while —the umbrella
tree of N.S.W. ( Tieghemopanax elegans), the lesser
myrtles, the gums and —for compliment to Maoriland
—the red-flowering green-and-grey pohutu-kawa, of
which a few have been planted near the Rose Bay
(Sydney) flying-boat base.
But, generally, the attitude to them is typified for
Eastern Australia in the new Sydney planting schemes
and in Canberra, where there is one characteristic
example. Though there is an almost identical N. S.
Wales elm in leaf, bark and form, the authorities
have chosen the Chinese elm ( Ulmus chinensis ) to
decorate the long footpath of the main road outside
the Hotel Canberra, the main tourist resort and the
approach to Parliament House.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
*T.”: Tn July, 1839, Henry Parkes
arrived in N.S.W. ; so there ought to be
something doing in Sydney in July next
year. Henry was 24 when he stepped off
the boat. He got a job in “the iron store
of Mr. Burdekin” and then in “Russell’s
foundry.” Afterwards “he established
himself as a toy-maker, then as a dealer
in toys, in Hunter-street.” Jn 1850 he
started the “Empire,” and he became an
M.L.C. in 1854, but 18 years were to
elapse before he formed his first Ministry.
’Enry could remember Canning and was
a contemporary of Domett. Both
Premiers, I suppose, wrote better verse,
but neither equalled ’Enry’s rhapsody
on “Ragged Jane”:
I would not give my Ragged Jane
For all the peacock ladies going;
She knows the way to banish pain:
What she don’t know is not worth'knowing.
Priceless!
* * * 3fC
“Sailor Once”: H.M.A.S. Hobart, nee
Apollo, which saluted the flag of Rear-
Admiral Custance in Sydney recently on
joining the fleet under his command, is
not the first British man-o’-war to be so
named. The French ship Revenge, cap-
tured in a sea-fight in 1794, was renamed
Hobart, and under such title saw service
in the British Navy until broken up some
eight years later. Her name was a com-
pliment to Lord Hobart, then Governor
of Madras ; the Speck’s capital wasn’t
founded until after the ship finished her
career afloat. Tasmania was first recog-
nised by the navy when a destroyer was
christened in her honor.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: When, in 1895, the
Australian-born Dr. Bruce used arsenic
in the treatment of sleeping sickness,
he originated one of the most far-
reaching investigations in the drug treat-
ment of disease that ever have been made.
Out of it grew Ehrlich’s work on organic
arsenic compounds which has practi-
cally conquered syphilis, yaws and re-
lapsing fever, and done wonders ;for
chronic malaria. Now the prontosil
derivatives, originating from a search for
a fast dye for woollen materials 25
years ago, are providing a weapon of
immense power against septic infections.
They are failures for wool, but dye the
bodies of streptococci with fatal results,
thereby arresting septicasmia. The slain
streps, release toxins which might im-
peril a weak patient, so a dose of anti-
strep. serum is given with the prontosil.
It does not kill staphylococci, the main
abscess-formers, but a derivative, Pron-
tonsil-S., which does has recently been
found. Curiously, neither is much good
for killing bacteria outside the body.
* 4! * *
“Literateur”: The gent, who circular-
ised M.L. business firms at Christmas
acknowledging the “close and intimate
co-operation” afforded in the past and
hoping that this would continue (B.
14,/12/’3B) recalls a Brisbane contractor
who was, I fancy, in the same line of
business. To his circular was always
appended a bright and cheerful piece of
verse. I speak with knowledge, since
during an unusually hard-up period I
wrote some of the verses, charging
double the rates asked for mere prose,
however impassioned.
“C.R.”: Four men haled before the
Beak at Terang (Vic.), and charged with
being on licensed premises after hours,
advanced an up-to-the-minute plea. They
said that owing to the drought producing
a domestic water shortage, beer was all
they could get to drink in Terang. An
unsympathetic Bench fined them five bob
a thirst.
* * * *
“Moturoa”: A dozen medicoes were
just concluding a consultation at a M.L.
public hospital when a bright young
lellow, fresh from medical school, blew
> n - For his benefit the symptoms of a
facial nerve trouble were briefly re-
counted. The newcomer, with swift
decision, asserted: “The first thing the
patient should do is to have his teeth
extracted—all of them!” Professional
calm was shattered when the patient re-
moved both top and bottom dentures
and placed them on the table.
* * * *
“Dhas”: Though Shaw wrote a tre-
mendous epilogue to the play “Pyg-
malion” to prove that the poor girl
couldn’t possibly marry the professoi
who dragged her and her accent out of
the gutter, the talkie version at Sydney
Victory ends with prof, telling Eliza to
"Now, remember, Higgins—the raid ll start the moment you throw your arms round the leader of the band."
fetch his slippers, which would be evi-
dence of marital intent in any breach-of-
promise court. There was one significant
cut in the dialogue near the end. In the
talkie, prof, says “Five minutes ago you
were like a millstone round my neck.
Now you’re a consort battleship.” But in
the play he adds “You and I and Picker-
ing will be three old bachelors together
instead of only two men and a silly girl.”
The happy ending, as it happens, is per-
fectly appropriate, and the epilogue to
the play was just Bernard being Ber-
nard. But since he must have agreed to
the twisting of the talkie’s closing scene,
it’s pleasing to recall the epilogue’s tirade
against “lazy dependence on the ready-
-mades and reach-me-downs of the rag-
shop in which Romance keeps its stock
of ‘happy endings’ to misfit all stories.”
Shaw must admit that the slippers touch
means matrimony, and so either he’s ad-
mitted the epilogue was all wrong or else
he’s gone shamelessly commercial.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Brisbane’s recent
heat-wave brought out a few bold re-
formers in the rational-dress line. One
was a stately and massive figure in a
gaudily-figured Malay sarong topped by
an athletic singlet, but elastic-side boots
and a beard rather spoiled the general
effect. Two bright lads who affected
bathing trunks attracted police attention,
but were allowed to continue their stroll
after adding zipped upper-storeys which
they thoughtfully carried with them. The
only individual who seemed really to
enjoy the infernal swelter wore a bib-
and-brace overall, chopped off at the
knees, thus allowing a continuous up-
draught without any belt-interference at
the waist. Two capacious pockets fore
and aft each contained a bottle of cool
beer.
* * * *
“D. Floor”: A recent remark by
W. M. Hughes about his stage life lacks
the intimate detail of the account which
he gave at a stage and press lunch in
Melbourne in 1920. “I was an actor
once,” he said. “As such I rubbed shoul-
ders with that fine Shakspearean actor
George Rignold. At least, we did not
exactly rub shoulders, but he put his
foot on my stomach at the siege of
Harfleur and said, ‘Once more into the
breach, dear friends, once more.’ ”
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Melbourne enthusiasm for
succoring the Jews has had some queer
repercussions. A building contractor in
a suburb received a demand that prefer-
ence in employment should be given to
Jewish refugees. There are 12,000 mem-
bers of the Vic. Builders’ Laborers’
Union and there is not one Jew amongst
them.
* * * *
“Clio”: The story of the ground that
had to be encouraged with gelignite (B.
21/12/’3B) before Premier Dunstan
could turn the sod recalls another in-
genious method of overcoming unrespon-
sive nature. A Blue Mountains pleasure
resort, whereof the chief attraction was
a temperamental waterfall, was to be
opened by a State Governor, and as the
ceremony was to take place in view of
the fall, which was dry owing to drought
conditions, the organisers felt something
had to be done about it. They built a
temporary dam out of sight above the
fall, deflected the town water supply to
fill it, and released the liquid with due
e ff ec t when the proper moment came,
so that a beautiful cascade greeted the
vice-regal company. If the Governor
hadn’t insisted on going to another point
to get a better view of the fall all would
have been well. As it was, he saw the
water suddenly peter out and a large
bare rock stand where the torrent had
flowed. A man of infinite tact, he merely
looked in the opposite direction and said
polite things about trees and gullies, but
the slopes re-echoed with the ribald
laughter of the locals.
* * * *
Chev : People flying across the
country to be at the bedside of sick
relatives have become a commonplace,
but the case of Mrs. Menzies Sharp goes
further than most. Advised in London
that her father was seriously ill in Mel-
bourne, she booked aboard the Eng-
b s b mail, arriving at Darwin seven days
later. She was in Melbourne three days
a f ter that.
* * * *
“Seal Tee”: Port Augusta (S.A.)
historians while going through old news-
papers and records to prepare a souvenir
for the Port Council jubilee discovered
that their forefathers had more than a
hope that their city of creeping sand
would be chosen as the Federal capital,
One writer stated: “With the capital situ-
ated at Port Augusta, the immense dis-
tances between east and west would be
halved. Westralia would never feel
alienated-, for the capital at the head of
the gulf would stand like a beacon light
redeeming the immensity of the distance
between east and west.” Another scribe
declared that “Nature, in her inscrut-
able designing and handiwork, has cleft
the southern shores, and deposited the
waters of Spencer’s Gulf in their present
bed, to allow an avenue of intercourse
to a capital within the island continent
of Australia.” Port Augusta might have
been no worse a capital than Canberra at
that, but outside of Port Augusta it’s
doubtful if it was ever considered.
* * * *
“Oran”: On one of Sydney’s more
secluded beaches which boasts no pro-
fessional lifesavers, the beautiful damsel
had just been rescued from the wild sea
by a good-looking stranger, who was
still endeavoring to bring her round. A
flapper-friend approached. “I think I
ought to tell you,” said she in a loud
whisper, “that her top teeth are artificial.
Oughtn’t we to take them out?” It was
agreed that this was the safest policy,
and the friend began operations. That
she desisted was due to the very hard
bite the rescued one gave her. Jn two
seconds the patient had struggled to her
feet, coldly thanked her rescuer, soundly
smacked the face of her officious flapper-
friend, and gone off to look for new
excitements.
* * * *
“W.E.F.”: The electoral-roll describes
him as a “salesman,” but a more fitting
appellation would be‘“fixer.” He sells
insurance, but more of his time appears
to be taken up in “fixing things” for
people. Do you want a couple of free
tickets? He can generally get them for
you. Do you want to read the latest book
banned by the censor? He’ll produce a
copy within 24 hours. I’ve known him
in the course of one day to get a youth
a job on a farm, recover some stolen
property for a friend, help a chap to
sell a car, persuade a straying husband
to return to his wife, and save a friend’s
dog from tick-poisoning by rushing it to
the McMaster Animal Health Labora-
tory. Enemies say he does these favors
to establish goodwill in his insurance
business, but that’s not true. He seeks
his insurance prospects outside his large
circle of friends. I can’t decide whether
he is merelv an overcrown Bov Scout or
a bloke with an inferiority complex who
wants t 0 be thought a thoroughly good
f e ]]ow
“C. 8.”: A man whose house I once
rented was the most eccentric of land-
In an outhouse he kept hundreds
of broken electric-light bulbs, boxes of
empty cotton-reels, crates of tenantless
matchboxes, rows of hairpins, hatpins and
scraps of brooches, and dozens of other
varieties of domestic flotsam and jetsam.
When I asked him the whence of the
collection he told me that it was utterly
impossible for him to pass anything lying
on the beach, in the street or floating in
the water without picking it up. If he
passed some object without submitting it
to inspection he would be suffused with a
terrible feeling of anxiety, which in-
creased the more he struggled against it.
1938-1939.
Thirty-Eight, you’re sliding gently
To your fate,
Being wiped incontinently
Off the slate!
All but finished is your tally,
Pretty nearly in, your alley.
Vale! In alternant vale,
’Thirty-Eight!
’Thirty-Eight, I’m not professing
Here to state
That you brought us boon and blessing
Overweight
In the period assigned you,
Still, we’re not ungrateful, mind you,
As the curtains close behind you.
’Thirty-Eight 1
Thirty-Nine step in! We greet you,
Hope you’re fine;
Infinitely pleased to meet you,
I and mine.
In your honor we’ll be ringing
Joy-bells soon and staves a-singing.
Now - 1 wo nder what you’re bringing,
’Thirty-Nine?
’Thirty-Nine, I pray you plan us
And design
To be ranked mirabilis annus
In your line.
Aye, here s hoping, blithe newcomer,
Welcome as long beers in summer,
•‘fiat you’ll prove a rumpty-tummer,
Thirty-Nine.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Nakh”: Country doctors get some
queer requests. A somewhat alcoholic
and battered young man turned up at
the local medico’s in a Vic. mountain
town and told him a sad and tangled
tale. He had been to a dance hall with
his girl friend, and on his way home met
a couple of male friends. The two
pals began making derogatory remarks
about the girl, which so enraged the
swain that he swung a dirty left at
the nearest. Unfortunately, he missed
the fellow and knocked out the girl
friend. All their chivalrous instincts
aroused at this unprovoked assault
on a fine specimen of Australian woman-
hood, his two cobbers went for the
luckless lad, leaving him unconscious on
the road. When he came to he found
that the girl had disappeared. “What do
you want me to do?” asked the g.p.
“Well,” said the battered youth, “I’d like
you to square things up for me with the
girl friend.”
* * ■* *
“Dungeness”: Fresh Sydney rock
oysters can now be bought in Singapore,
4730 miles from their place of upbring-
ing, cheaper than in many a Sydney
restaurant. The Singapore-Sydney exten-
sion of the Imperial Airways flying-boat
route brings three of these 18-ton craft
along it every week, one way or the other.
The oysters prefer, for air-travel, to re-
main in their shells, packed in wet sea-
mud, and when so treated retain all their
flavor, texture and juiciness until well
after arrival in Singapore. They are in-
comparably better than any oyster obtain-
able in Asia, and, more important still,
consumers can be sure of the fact that
they have been grown, collected and
packed under clean and healthy condi-
tions. If any Asiatic oyster should claim
for himself these desirable qualities of
sanitary upbringing, he lies in his shell.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: A Melbourne businessman
recently acquired a painting by a verit-
able Old Master for the modest price of
15 bob, although its authorship is well
authenticated and the artist’s fame is
world-wide. The picture depicts a stream
flanked by pine trees, a bridge and what
looks like a village church, and could
pass for an Italian primitive. The
painter was that master of crime
Frederick Bailey Deeming, and it is dated
1883.
* * * *
“McSporran”: Experiences brought
about by Sydney’s hurricane, coupled
with an ancestry of Aberdeenish flavor,
have led me to meditate on the high cost
of civilisation. Sydney’s electrical train-
cwm-tramways system, costing Lord
knows how many millions, broke down
and stranded me in North Sydney, six
miles from home. Borrowed an elderly
bicycle, value approx. £4 10s., and got
home not more than five minutes later
than usual. Found transmission and
house wires connecting my cottage with
electric mains had been torn away by
falling trees. They stayed down for four
days, during which period the lack of
about £2OO worth of electrical equipment
—lighting, cooking, water-heating, etc. —
was covered by a spirit lamp, retail price
KHd., and about two bobs’ worth of
metho. This boiled water for tea, fried
sausages, etc. For more ambitious cook-
ery a fireplace was made outside with
old bricks and iron (capital value, .if any-
thing, under 6d.), and fuel cost nothing,
being brushwood brought down by the
storm. Lighting was supplied by a couple
of hurricane-lanterns that drank six-
penn’orth of kerosene and three or four
“Of course it's safe, Prendergast — I've seen it done at the circus many a time!"
candles —possibly Bd. worth. There
seems to be a moral kicking about some-
where.
>!? >jc * *
“Ek Dum”: Vic.’s police reached the
zenith of their career as protectors of civic
morals when one of their number walked
into a bookshop, bought a copy of A. P.
Herbert’s innocuous divorce polemic
Holy Deadlock, and presently carried the
volume gingerly before an S.M., because
the police had been told the book was
obscene by someone who had read it.
The magistrate, slightly bewildered, said
he couldn’t see anything improper about
it, and ordered it to be handed back to
the bookseller. The Vic. police now have
the honor of being the first force in his-
tory to hale a member of “Punch” staff
before a Beak on a charge of naughtiness.
“Punch” is sometimes dull, often feeble
to Australian minds, but St. Paul himself
did not lead a more blameless literary life,
and the idea that any of its Writers should
descend to “obscenity” is enough to
shake the Empire to its foundations.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: A Melbourne seadog
just retired tells a story of his old sail-
ing-ship days. He was standing on the
poop enjoying the fresh air after break-
fast as his ship approached the Westralian
coast and was idly looking for’ard along
the deck when he saw a seaman, who
had been amicably chatting to another,
suddenly give his companion a terrific
swipe which laid him on his back.
Before the astounded skipper could in-
tervene the two cronies were at it ham-
mer and tongs. When he was able to
sort them out he asked the aggressor
why he had started the war. “1 didn’t
start it, sir,” he said in an aggrieved
tone, wiping the blood off his nose. “I
was standing ’ere talking friendly-like to
Bill when he ups and hits me a helluva-
whack on the cheek.” And he showed
his cheek in evidence. “I never touched
the liar,” asserted Bill. “No more he
did,” said the puzzled skipper. “I was
watching you both. You must be drunk,
my lad.” Then his eye lightened as he
bent down and picked up a flying-fish
from the deck.
* * * *
“Phil Wal”: When singing “Auld
Lang Syne” this New Year, don’t per-
petuate the error “And gie’s a hand o’
thine.” The fourth word is not “hand”
but “haud,” meaning “hold.” An error
in typesetting in an early edition of
Burns has been perpetuated ever since.
* * *■ *
“El V.”: George ‘Five’s method of
remembering old naval comrades (B.
7/12/’3B) may have amused the knowing
onlooker, but it saved him from the kind
of embarrassment which bcfel one of our
vice-regal great, who used to tell the yarn
against himself in fruity naval language.
“They ain't exactly sheer, but they'll be better'n bare feet."
Before laying a foundation stone he,
as usual, made meticulous inquiries about
his Worship the Mayor, who, he was
told, was a retired old gentleman de-
voting his declining days to the perfection
of a rotary motor engine. So when
his Ex. stepped out of the nearly-royal
train and beheld what was obviously a
mayor, decorated with chain, et al., he
barged straight up to him and boomed:
“Ah, Mr. Mayor, I have heard so much
of your work. And how is all your—ah
—interesting apparatus getting on? Ido
hope we shall be through in time for you
to show it to me.” And he did not under-
stand the gurgle which shook the nearer
ranks of Tuscany till a blushing aide
whispered to him later that the Mayor
was ill and his deputy was the sanitary
contractor.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: In saying that
“Diver” Hughes wasn’t a miner “Ox-
mead” (B. 16/11/’3B) is both right and
wrong. Hughes was really a naval
diver. Arrived in Kalgoorlie, he worked
first at the Kalgoorlie Foundry, where
I knew him; then Morgan, of the
South Kalgoorlie G.M. (a brother-
Welshman), offered him a job under-
ground. Never a proper diorite-puncher,
he acquired a good underground
knowledge which, when the crisis arrived,
made him the only possible man for the
relieving of the entombed Varischetti.
It was the two regular divers employed
by the Fremantle Harbor Trust that
brought along the gear and attended to
the essential details. Hughes at the time
was on the South Kalgoorlie.
* * * *
“Burglar’s Improver” : Now the boss is
outa quod again, I gotter bit o’ time ter
read up on me per-
fesh an’ its pros-
pecks, an’ I tell yer
the flamin’ prospecks
ain’t too good wiv all
these yere scientific
blokes stickybeakin’
in everywhere.
Strike, ther way they
goes on tippin’ orf
the flamin’ Johns
about gettin’ yer
fingerprints orf bits
o’ clobber an’ all
kinda things what
they usen’t ter know
’ow, yer’d think no
one but scientific
blokes never got
jobs done on ’em,
they’re that stinkin’
nasty about it. An’
wot reg’lar, I arsts
yer, ’ud think uv
pullin’ a job orf pore
’ard-up cows like
them? W’y, ’e’d be
wastin’ ’is time an’
wearin’ out ’is tools
fer noth ink. Jest
flamin’ narks they
are. ’Ate ter see a
bloke makin’ a livin’.
Either that or there’s
some crook work
goin’ on.
FED UP.
“O’Reilly, Fingleton and Chipperfield are ‘fed up
with cricket’ after the strenuous English tour....
Bradman, on whom ‘the strain imposed by captaincy
was terrific,’ is a candidate for the Melbourne Cricket
Club secretaryship.”
Don’t think it’s all hopjuice and skittles,
The eminent cricketers’ “lurk”!
When you’re playing a game for your victuals
It gets to be mighty like work.
With axes or picks you may struggle
And fail to appreciate at all
It may be as tiring to juggle
With bat and with ball.
We’re the pick of the lusty and strong uns
Selected for doing our bit
In shrewdly detecting the wrong ’uns
To block—and the right ’uns to hit.
Wherever was glory to beckon
We battled witli zip and with zest,
And now we* determinedly reckon
It’s time for a rest.
These Tests, more intensive and torrid
Each season than ever they were,
Arc things to put lines in your forehead
And grey in what’s left of your hair.
With boundaries coming in fast time
Enough for the taste of the mob,
Then cricket, once counted a pastime,
Is changed to u job.
We’re back from the oversea clashes
With a pretty fair record, we trust,
For we haven’t surrendered the Ashes
And we’ve collared our whack of the dust.
But we’ve come to the end of our tether;
Front the barrackers’ bellow and yell
At the impact of willow on leather
We’re due for a spell.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


sss
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVEN'A
awiiii'fi
n
10 for 9d...20 for V 6
£1866
SPECIALLY
33
PREVENT
E3E
T H R
POLITICAL POINTS
Direct communication by radio ’phone
has been established between Australia
and the U.S.A., and Bruce was one of
the early talkers over it. Manchester
“Guardian” improved the shining hour
by announcing that he was returning to
Australia to succeed Lyons, that states-
man being all broken up. Any words
to that effect invariably effect an imme-
diate cure in the P.M.’s lodge ; anyway,
Joseph at once protested that he was
“as fit as a fiddle.”
What a picnic Lyons’s Parliamentary
job is compared with Chamberlain’s!
Eleven days after Joseph thanked the
Speaker, Ms.H.R. and officials for their
attendance during the session, Chamber-
lain was triumphantly defending his
foreign policy in a full-dress debate for
at least the twentieth time this year, and
that on a Monday. Monday sittings are
vetoed at Canberra. And though war
was “thundering at the gates” at the be-
ginning of the month, and “peace was
hanging on a slender thread,” Lyons
intimated two days before Chamberlain’s
Monday speech that the adjournment
“for Christmas” would last till “about
the end of March.”
The House of Commons has lost one
of its lady politicians, the Duchess of
Atholl. Member for Kinross and West
Perth, and returned three years ago as
a Conservative with a 5000 majority over
a Liberal, the Duchess resigned as “a
protest against the Chamberlain foreign
policy.” With Churchill’s blessing she
stood again as a representative of the
Gingerbeer Group, and though she
doubtless got all the Lib., Lab. and
Gingerbeer Group votes, and although
the electorate has 3000 more women than
men, she was beaten by 11,808 to 10,495.
The worst of it is that the winner owns
to the plebeian name of Snadden.
John Quirk’s widow is to be the
Labor candidate for Rozelle (N.S.W.).
Like her late lord she is for Lang. The
Heffron “party,” which is backed by the
Reds at the Trades Hall, talked of pick-
ing a man from a multitude of alleged
aspirants, and the Langist “Century’s”
statement that “2KY drove itself off the
air” gave it a chance to run Morley,
the 2KY commentator. But the Heffron
“party” squibbed it.
The Full High Court, upholding Jus-
tice Rich’s decision, has refused to allow
the Sydney “Sun” people exemption
from tax on “portion of £86,500 paid to
E. G. Theodore and D. F. H. Packer”
for not publishing a rival paper. Some
of the terms of the judgment, as delivered
by the C.J., rub salt into an old A.W.U.
wound.
The money was paid to Packer and
Theodore for the purchase of their Sydney
newspaper, the “World,” when it was
strongly rumored that the “World” in-
tended to publish an evening newspaper
and sell it at a penny..
From the first pre-war phase to the last,
which was devoted to championing the
lost cause of the Theodore group, a ton
of A.W.U. money was locked up and
lost in the “World” ; and many of the
good fellows who subscribed it now
sleep in A.I.F. cemeteries. But Theodore
did very well out of the “World.”
Obit, the Sydney “Mail,” aged 78.
Another blow to journalists of the old
Australian school, and it is partly a
result of commercial-radio competition,
as they bitterly reflect. While the “Mail”
was breathing its last, Cameron, the
P.M.G., administered a salutary check
to commercial-radio excesses and imper-
tinences ; and the New Journalism black-
guarded him for doing it.
From “1902 Cub”:
Though the U.A.P. couldn’t get along with-
out the Country party, the Country party is
hated by the Sydney daily papers, and they
never miss a chance of attacking it. Minister
Thorby, who rarely opens his mouth without
cramming a foot into it, gives them oppor-
tunities which are eagerly availed of. One
came last week, when, in the hearing of Sydney
reporters, Thorby made characteristic Thorby
comments on some mild remarks of Curtin
about air-accident inquiries. An outburst
attributed to him was: “1 hope the time soon
will come when I’ve got power to put traitors
like that up against a wall and shoot them.”
Thorby’s version was that ‘‘informal remarks
made after the press interview closed were ex-
“People of Australia, the dark clouds above you are becoming darker every moment.”
W.M. Hughes, at a recruiting rally in Martin-place, Sydney, on one of the hottest
days of the year.
A MODERATELY TRUE BILL.
aggerated.” But he had put himself wildly in
the wrong, and in the end he telegraphed an
apology which the generous-natured Curtin
accepted. Then the pack turned on Cameron,
the P.M.G., howling, not that he had said too
much but that he had said too little.
Although Churchill’s Gingerbeer Group
and the British section of the Stunt Press
exude sympathy for foreign Jews, they
are doing their darnedest to oust the
Jewish War Minister, Hore-Belisha. So
far they have failed, and, as Chamberlain
is not the man to go back on a steady
supporter, it is unlikely that they will
succeed. At this distance Hore-Belisha
seems a very active Minister, though
doubtless fond of the limelight. Aus-
tralia could do with a man like him —
certainly Victorians who know the record
in war and peace of Colonel Harold
Cohen, M.L.A., would feel easier .in their
minds if Caulfield lent him to Canberra
as a financial watchdog who would see
that Australia got value for the
£63,000,000 the Government has arranged
to spend on defence.
Are lottery tickets from another Aus-
tralian State “foreign” in N.S.W.? Are
milk and cream from another State like-
wise “foreign”? Sydney magistrates have
decided, in effect, that they are. Both
points are to be referred, tediously and
expensively, to the High Court. They
and a thousand like them could never
arise if national union under one Parlia-
ment existed in this country, as it does
in Maoriland, South Africa and Britain
itself.
Democracy’s worst enemies in Aus-
tralia are not Nazis or Fascists (they
scarcely exist), but those of its “cham-
pions” who loaf on it.
“Earthquake Rocks N.Z.” But the
damage was a bagatelle compared with
what a dreaming Labor Government has
inflicted, though its motives were as pure
as the snow on Cook’s summit. One odd
result is that Maorilanders in Australia
can no longer get their country’s currency
taken in banks, Government departments,
public vehicles or pubs.
Drummond, the N.S.W. Minister of
Education, who has been in the wars —
he has fallen out with one of his officers,
and with Canberra because it won’t give
him a huge grant —has been gladdened
by the arrival of the Canadian he named
First Director of Physical Education in
N.S.W. The newcomer mentions that
he was “director of physical education at
the Y.M.C.A. in London.”
Australians will be interested to know
that my place in London was taken by an
Australian, Hector Kay. I worked in close
collaboration with another Australian, Dr.
Arthur Lamb, of McGill University, who
is regarded as one of the best experts on
physical education in Canada and the
United States.
Australians are interested. Especially as
this Canadian was engaged in Canberra
on the recommendation of two members
of Drummond’s staff. Evidently they had
never heard of Kay or Dr. Lamb. Per-
haps it would have made no difference if
they had.
Marzorini, the Victorian Secretary for
Labor, has given this as the employment
position in his State:
There is a serious shortage of skilled
female labor in almost all trades in which
females are employed.
There is a general surplus of all classes
of skilled male labor.
Apparently the only thing for surplus
men and lads to do is to disguise them-
selves in skirts and learn women’s work.
Canberra will have to be careful about
those 15,000 alien refugees. They won’t
all be plaster saints. The enthusiasm of
“advanced” trade-union leaders, hitherto
dead against all forms of assisted immi-
gration, is suspicious, and so is that of
avowed Communists; a substantial re-
cruitment of foreign Reds and Pinks is
evidently expected. The least that the
Government can do is to lay it down
that membership of any subversive
organisation, open or disguised, will dis-
qualify, whether discovered before or
after admission.
Melbourne “Age,” hard put to it to
find excuses for voluntary enlistment—it
had no use for the thing in 1916:
For purposes of comparison in methods
and instruments of warfare, the year 1914
is almost as remote from us as is the year
1066.
Come, come! Imagination boggles at
the idea of Our Joe and his housecarls
making a last stand on Mount Stromlo
while Thorby tries to yank an arrow
out of his eye.
Last year Charles Hawker carried 24
subdivisions in Wakefield (S.A.). Butler
headed his two opponents in three small
subdivisions only ; one of them —a new
one —is named Hawker. The discom-
fited ex-Premier even failed of a
majority in Norton’s Summit, where his
successor, Playford, has a farm.
Raymond Watt, whom the Lyons
Government sent to Geneva to placate
the League of Nations Union, of which
he is N.S.W. secretary, has been named
secretary of a so-called emergency
council formed by sympathisers with
refugees from Germany ; and already he
is issuing instructions to Canberra:
The refugee'problem is urgent, and the
Government must help in its solution.
When at Geneva Watt was photographed
grinning at and being grinned at by Lit-
vinoff. Why isn’t Litvinoffs Government
helping?
A Special Representative of “S. M.
Herald” announces that Churchill has
found a new ally for us —Poland. In the
same issue, a Special Correspondent ex-
plains what a trustworthy ally Poland
would be:
During the Anschluss crisis, Poland pre-
sented an ultimatum to Lithuania and
won her demands. During the Czecho-
slovakian crisis, she again fished in troubled
waters and extracted from them Teschen,
Oderberg and a large slice of other Czecho-
slovakian territory. In 1934, she frankly
suggested to France that an excuse should
be found for a war to crush Germany.
The Poles, it seems, are governed by “a
small authoritarian party” given to “ruth-
less adventuring.” Churchill must be off
his chump.


THE FOSTER PARENT.
“A man in the Waikato Hospital (M.L.) took an egg to bed with him and hatched it in 25 days."


SECURITy FOR
yOUR SAVINGS...
Careful investors will consider
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
which spreads funds over ..the
shares of 20 Companies. • '
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
■ W iror a Free Baekfet to
the Managers a/ the Trust ;
BOX 4028 VV,
* TELEPHONE: 8 5294
o
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WHAT SENT GOLD UP?
WILL PRICE HOLD?
OUTLOOK FOR SECURITIES
MINES AND METALS
December Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
■
MS
A
Oi,/
c
SIZE 72*60’
PERSONAL ITEMS
Eric Lowe, author of the marathon
novel Salute to Freedom, portion of
which ran in The Bulletin as a serial
not long ago, is back in Australia after
an 18 months’ visit to England and Den-
mark. Lowe writes about a life he
knows. For many years the Lowe family
were big runowners in the Dunedoo and
Mudgee districts of N.S.W., and young
Eric was known as one of the best horse-
men in the Central West. He has also had
first-hand experience of mountains and
climbing em, a subject which features
laigely in his book. He is climbing com-
panion of Dr. E. P. Dark (husband of
novelist Eleanor Dark), who is rated Aus-
tralia’s No. 1 mountaineer on rock.
Alister Clark, of Glenara, Bulla, Vic.,
is known everywhere in the world where
roses will grow. There are few people
who can work such magic in the
hybridising of roses and daffodils. Vic.
National Rose Society handed him a gift
the other evening in recognition
years’ service. He pleased two of his
eulogists (W. H. Dunallen and T. A.
Stewart, editor of the “Rose Annual’’)
by announcing that next year he would
produce two new roses, to be christened
the W. H. Dunallen and the Editor
Stewart.
Ihe “Last Post” has sounded over
Charles Longden, the last remaining
Crimean War veteran in Australia, and
citizen of Brisbane for more than 70
years. He arrived early in 1868 as special
constable in charge of immigrants on the
Quetta. In the 1870’s he started Brisbane’s
first omnibus service. A cheerful and
genial soul, he celebrated his 105th birth-
day on April 13 in company with 24
friends whose combined ages, added to
his own, totalled 1938. The unregenerate
will rejoice to know that he enjoyed his
pipe and an occasional spot of rum up
to his last days, just as he had done for
nearly 90 years.
The name of Charles Henry Hunt,
who died at Pymble (N.S.W.) last week
at 81, looms large in the early history
of black-and-white art in Sydney. He
was one of that small group of artists,
including Samuel Begg, William Mac-
leod, Montagu Scott and Alfred Clint,
who drew for The Bulletin before
W. H. Traill imported Livingston Hop-
kins (“Hop”) and Phil May. B.orn in
England, Hunt studied at Heatherley’s
School, gained experience with a litho-
graphic firm in London, and arrived in
Sydney in 1879 at the age of 22. He
contributed to the “Illustrated Sydney
News,” the “Town and Country Jour-
nal” and the “Sydney Mail,” did a Syd-
ney page for the Queensland “Punch”
and was associated with Arthur Colling-
ridge and Ernest Blackwell in establish-
ing the “Centennial Magazine.” In the
Mitchell Library, Sydney, there are
reproductions of double-page drawings
of the embarkation and also the return
of the Sudan Contingent made by him
for the “Illustrated Sydney News” in
1885, but his Sudan sketches never at-
tained the fame achieved by “Hop’s”
“The Roll Call,” drawn for The Bul-
letin. Hunt was among the first mem-
bers of the Art Society of N.S.W.,
founded in 1880 by the brothers George
and Arthur Collingridge.
Albert lohn de Baun, the barrister
chosen for a seat on the N. S. Wales
Industrial Commission, is the son of
John de Baun, a notable figure in the
roaring days of the Westralian goldfields,
and spent most of his youth in Perth.
\i> e A Was first ma^e graduate of the
vV.A. Uni. His LL.B., however, comes
trom Sydney Uni. The new Judge, dur-
ing his 18 years of legal practice in
Sydney, has acquired a reputation as a
specialist in industrial law, and latterly
has appeared almost exclusively in in-
dustrial jurisdictions.
A. B. Foxcroft, who died at sea off
Auckland while returning to Australia,
was assistant-librarian of the Melbourne
Public Library. He had visited Europe
and the U.S.A. after being awarded a
Carnegie Visitor’s Grant. A quiet, re-
served man, noted for his scholarship, he
published two books on the Incunabula
in the Melbourne Public Library, and at
the time of his death was working on a
new system of classification of Incuna-
bula.
SIR GRANVILLE BANT OCR.
“El V.’’ discourses on a figure in the
public eye:—-
He sits at the right-hand end of the Trea-
sury Bench when the Federal Parliament is in
session, a long, youngish, sandyish man, solemn,
sporting the only moustache in the Ministry
except Mr. Casey’s and W. M. Hughes’s. He is
sunburnt, his long, solid legs stretch out in
front like ironbark logs and terminate in a
pair of substantial tan boots which look as if
they have always been firmly on the ground.
He has none of the groomed air which usually
distinguishes staff captains. Sometimes he rises
up like a growirig pine-tree and says as much
as two words together. They are always echoed
by a sound like the kelp rushing down the
Sound of Mull before a north-wester —the surg-
ing indignation of Joe Gander’s faithful
chorus. Then the Minister sits down and looks
more than ever like the farmer that he is,
and apparently goes to sleep, arms folded,
while the tempest calms itself. Nobody who
did not know would recognise him as Archie
Cameron, Digger, Postmaster-General and —
in the Labor Council litany—Fascist destroyer of
broadcasting, stations, traducer of womanhood
and enemy-in-general of democracy as it is
known in the Trades Hall. But he does look
like a man who has clear-cut opinions and is
not- afraid to voice them, which is more than
can be said for some colleague.
J. D. Fischer Sobell, of Melbourne
Uni., has crowded a lot into a few short
years. He graduated in languages at the
University and was the P. W. Mollison
student of 1934 the Mollison student
being obliged to study some language in
the land where it is spoken. He studied
languages at the Universities of Genoa
and Bonn, and philosophy at the Sor-
bonne and Cambridge, and can now ex-
press himself in 11 tongues. The British
Commercial Diplomatic Service, the De-
partment of Overseas Trade and the Air
Ministry Consulate now use his talents.
He has just got his commission in the
RAF. Sobell is a son of the late Pro-
fessor Sobell, of Melbourne, and is 24.
Most of the Santa Clauses in Sydney
shops this year were old-stagers with
upwards of 40 years’ show experience.
Fred Climo and Ward Lear, of Far-
mer’s, were once well-known to Aus-
tralian vaudeville audiences, but the prize
lor varied experience must go to Charles
Weatherly, of David Jones’s, who started
qualifying for his part well over 50 years
ago. He commenced cleaning out the
monkey cages in a circus, graduated to
lion-taming and horse-breaking, played in
London music halls as “Dezano, the
Human Knot,”
managed comic
opera in India,
played Gilbert and
Sullivan in the
Philippines, and
brought the first
troupe of perform-
ing elephants to
Australia.
William Victor
McCall, who repre-
sents Martin
(N.S.W.) in the
Reps., being young
enough for military
service (30), has
joined the 36th Bat-
talion as a private.
He and his friend
Defence Minister
Street, while in
Canberra, keep
themselves fit by a
three-mile walk and
a swim before
breakfast. The new
recruit, born in the
Sydney suburb of
Chatswood, where
he still lives and
carries on business
in wool and skins,
was educated at
Sydney Grammar,
and while at school
and afterwards did
six years’ training
with the militia. He
proposes this time
to study for a com-
mission.
Acting-Judge Moffitt, whose term on
the N. S. Wales Bench expired on
December 23, is better known to
Bulletin readers as Herbert W. Moffitt,
whose signature has appeared at the
bottom of many drawings in this paper.
’Sonah spent most of his youthful years
mustering cattle with his dad around the
Upper Shoalhaven (N.S.W.), where he
was born. There he observed Binghi,
swaggies and other picturesque people,
whom he portrayed for various journals.
As a youth he taught in a small bush
school until Peter Board, then Director
of Education, transferred him to the city
to chalk blackboards for more than 20
years. He collected 8.A., M.A. and
LL.B. degrees as an evening student at
Sydney University, his call to the Bar
coming 15 years ago. For a while he
was English master at the Sydney Boys’
High School, where he introduced Shak-
spearean plays with students as actors.
Moffitt established himself in law, and
built up a large practice. Out of his wig
he is a first-class raconteur and amateur
actor, and a popular fellow among Syd-
ney writers and artists.
Some January birthdays:
Artist Daryl Lindsay, 49, on Ist; Prof. Gil-
bert Murray, 73, Premier Stevens (N.S.W.), 50,
A. D. McGill, K.C. (Brisbane), 53, Wing-Com-
mander L. J. Wackett, 43, and Bishop Henschke
(Wagga), 47, on 2nd; Vic. Crown Solicitor
Menzies, 47, and Vic. Gov. Lord Huntingfield,
56, on 3rd; author R. H. Croll, 70, and Judge
Lukin (Fed. Bankruptcy Court), 71, on 4th;
N.S.W. Auditor-General John Spence, 61, Prof.
H. Tasman Lovell, 61, and painter Arthur
Burgess, 60, on 6th; knight Graham Waddell
( N.S.W.), 62, bird-artist Neville Cayley, 52,
W. J. Hutchinson, M.H.R. (Deakin), 35, Dan
Mulcahy, M.H.R. (Lang), 57, and baritone John
Brownlee, 39, on 7th; Federal Labor-leader
John Curtin, 54, and Justice Nicholas (N.S.W.),
61, on Bth; artist Sydney Ure Smith, 52, Canon
Crotty (Melb.), 60, and High Court Registrar
J. G. Davies, 61, on 9th; Bishop Batty (New-
castle), 60, and Harbormaster Hill (Syd.), 63,
on 10th; W.A. Senator Johnston, 59, on 11th;
Vic. lax Commissioner Chenoweth, 53, and
Jas. McDonald, M.L.C. (Speck), 62, on 12th;
Essington Lewis (B.H.P. Co.), 58, and Tom
Smith (N.S.W. Fire Board), 49, on 13th; George
Pearce, 69, on Nth; shipowner W. A. Mackay,
56, geologist W. G. Woolnough, 63, and J. H.
Starling (Canberra), 56, on 15th; Brig.-Gen.
C. H. Foott, 63, and violinist Daisy Kennedy,
on 16th; knight Clifton Love (Syd.), 71, and
painter John Rowell (Vic.), 45, on 18th; platy-
pus authority Harry Burrell, 66, and Vic.
Senator Cameron, 61, on 19th; Judge Phillips
e^t,Gumea) * 49 ’ on 20th ; K - R- Cramp
Educ - De Pt), 61, Justice Webb (Q.),
52, Federal Defence Minister Street, 45, and
Moses (A.8.C.), 39, on 21st; former
LV S i W ' -£ rernier biller, 78, Col. J. M. Arnott
(Syd.), 70, and Archbishop Gilroy (Syd.), 43,
on 22nd; former Vic. Police Commissioner
Blarney, 55, Vic. Min. for Educ. Dr. J. R.
Harris, 71, and Ethel Turner, on 24th,; Arcli-
P«hpP Wand, 54, and Capt. C. H. Peters
(Melb.) 50, on 25th; Prof. A. J. A. Waldock
(Syd.), 41, and Westralian C.P. and Opposition-
Jeader G. C. JLalham, 57, on 26th; painter
Julian Ashton, 88, on 27th; Justice Kenneth
Street (NS. W.), 49, Bishop Feetham (N.
Q land), 66, baronet Hugh Poynter (Syd.), 57,
and A. Grenfell Price (St. Mark’s Coll., Adel.),
47, on 28th; Bishop Norton (Bathurst), 48,
t. L. Frazer (Vic. Parliamentary Librarian), 47
weather-prophet Mares (N.S.W.), 60, A S le
Souef (Taronga Park, Syd.), 62, and Prof. C. A.
Scutt (Melb.), 50, on 30th; baritone Peter
Dawson, 57, and Guy Innes (Aust. Assoc. Press,
Lond.), 57, on 31st.
The death at 95 of Mrs. Nina Russell,
of Auckland (M.L.), severs a link with
Edward Gibbon Wakefield. When Wake-
field and his daughter Nina were in
Portugal the latter formed a girlhood
I riendship with a daughter of Senor Jodo
Simones de Oliveira. This girl was
adopted by Wakefield, who had her
educated, and, being unable, as intended,
to accompany her to M.L. some 90 years
ago, placed her in charge of a medico
and his wife. On the voyage out she be-
came affianced to a young passenger
named James J. Taine. They were mar-
ried in M.L., the groomsman being E.G.’s
brother, Col. William Wakefield. Mrs.
Russell was a daughter of this marriage.
Recently appointed Registrar-General,
Registrar of Titles and Registrar of
the Supreme Court of Victoria, Eric
S. Vance commenced official life in the
Vic. Titles Office as an examiner of titles
in 1929, after a short association with
Madden, Butler, Elder and Graham, Mel-
bourne solicitors, and a longer partner-
ship with Hurry, of Kyneton, ex-M.H.R.
for Bendigo. Now in his early forties, the
new Registrar, in addition to being a
Master of Laws, holds accountancy quali-
fications. He takes an interest in tennis,
having been treasurer of the Kooyong
body at the time when H. A. Pitt, former
Vic. Director of Finance, was helping to
mould the destinies of the ball and
racquet brigade.
Of the eight First Classes won by
Rhodes scholars at Oxford in 1938 three
went to Australians, who number just
one-tenth of Oxford’s R.S. enrolment. Of
the three two, G. A. de C. Hillman and
R. J. Rossiter, were from Westralia.
Both took Firsts in Natural Science. The
other First, in the B.C.L. (law), went to
J. G. Mann, of Vic.


■
n
A
V£
ll
X
A
n
the M H
c0
M
V>
%
*5
A,g
<^Xc
00
<?
'T
m
0°
“S
a®
iffl
dO
iH
Os
&
i?
iX
m
&
Wz\
87S0B-9-8
Better buy Capstan
They’re blended better!


ABORIGINALITIES
“What do I get to the gallon? About fifty silly flamin' questions!"
“Wang”: Dave and the hand were
driving home from the Hospital Ball,
with Mary seated between them. The
hand had his arm around Mary’s waist.
“It was a great turnout,” remarked Dave.
“Who d’you reckon was the best-lookin’
girl there?” “Mary, here,” said the hand
promptly. “Her!” said Dave scornfully.
“ ’Struth! She wasn’t a patch on Hetty
Brown.” “Yes, she was,” said the hand
loyally; “she knocked Hetty inter a
cocked hat.” Mary giggled delightedly,
and snuggled hard against the hand.
“Yer batty,” retorted Dave, with
brotherly unconcern for Mary’s feelings.
“No, I ain’t,” replied the hand stoutly ;
“Mary was the best-lookin’ an’ best-
dressed girl there.” “Well, anyway, she
ain’t got Hetty’s figger an’ nice-shaped
legs,” said Dave in a nettled tone. “Yes,
she has,” replied the hand; “Mary’s got
a bonzer figger, an’ her legs was the best-
shaped there t’-night.” Mary leaned her
head on the hand’s shoulder, and Dave
lapsed into sulky silence. It was just
breaking day when they reached home.
Dad met them on his way to the stables.
He was in a bad mood and looked it.
So yer home at last,” he said sourly.
Well, youse blokes had better hurry up
an get inter yer workin’ togs.” He turned
to Mary, and stood eyeing her standing
in her finery, then burst out angrily, “An’
you, shift that ugly carcass of yers, an’
get them flash duds orf yer. The sooner
1 see yer with them skinny shanks
clamped round a milk bucket the better
I’ll be pleased.”
* * * *
“Turon River”: A trapper with a
chaff-bag slung over his shoulder sets out
along his line ; in front of him waddles
a young pup almost as wide as he is
long who beats him to each trap and
scruffs every rabbit. Grinning, the trapper
murmurs: “The little flamer . . . 1
wonder” Comes a burrow with an
empty “set”—trap pulled up and dragged
away ; the pup sits awhile and ponders,
then, small head down, he sets off on the
scent. Later comes the rattle of a trap
plate and the “little flamer” has landed
his mutton. So are trap-dogs created.
**. * *
“W.P.T.”: “We waste nothing out
here,” old Tom remarked as he stripped
the sinews from a kangaroo’s tail. He
cut the best steaks from the carcass, the
two hams were salted and hung up the
old chimney to cure and after the sinews
had been taken out of the tail for boot-
laces the rest of the tail went into the
soup pot. From the skin he reckoned he
could cut a pair of boots for his dog, a
belt and a pair of braces for himself, a
hat-band, a fly-veil for his horse and one
for himself and a tobacco-pouch.
* * * m
“Dungeness”: Yes, the outback is still
resourceful. A far-west Q. cattleman got
sick of having his truck stuck up in a
five-mile stretch of sandhills when he
went in for supplies. Being a handy
mechanic he made a set of caterpillar
treads from heavy canvas reinforced with
old tyres, and mounted them on drums
clamped outside the wheels clear of step
and mudguards. They take 20 minutes
to fit, but he reckons it’s a lot better
than hours of hard labor getting the
truck out of the sand. Their track over
the sand is barely visible, he gets through
at 10 m.p.h. and hasn’t had a stick-up
in six months. Apropos, why is it that
one can’t buy caterpillars in Australia
any more? They will negotiate sand and
mud country that no tyres could even
take a look at. They are common enough
in the south of France, or were two years
ago, and I saw a few in England doing
farm jobs in soft Fen country.
* * * *
“D. Ficit”: Now that I have seen a
gumtree growing on the Acropolis at
Athens just in front of the Museum that
stands beside the Parthenon, I live in
hope that some picturesque writer will
describe Plato as walking beneath groves
of gums in the Academy. After all, there
is an even better gum anachronism in
Pamela Frankau's little book on Jezebel.
She describes Ahab returning from Tyre
and Sidon, well before the time of Plato,
and passing through the forests of
eucalypts after crossing Mt. Carmel.
After that A. E. W. Mason’s touch in Fire
Over England is a very minor post-
dating. He describes his hero, going from
Lisbon to Madrid in 1588, as travelling
along a road lined with giant eucalypts.
It is a pity that this cannot be taken as
relevant evidence for that Portuguese dis-
covery of part of Australia before 1540
of which there are various scattered hints
in the Dauphin world-map of 1536, the
world-map which Jean Rotz (John Ross,
a Franco-Scot) gave to Henry the Eighth
in 1542, and in other maps of the Dieppe
school. For that matter the Portuguese
could have had eucalypts from Timor
and other East Indian islands which they
visited early in the sixteenth century;
but there is no evidence that they took
’em. The first eucalypts grown outside
their natural limits seem to have been
reared in Mauritius in 1793.
* * * *
“Monger’s Lake”: 1 dunno about a
tortoise putting snails on the menu, but
the molluscs are welcomed by the fresh-
water turtle. And the female freshwater
turtle, given the tiniest pond for an
occasional immersion, can reside out of
water indefinitely. Round about Perth
the swamps and lakes used to be well
stocked with the species, the females,
about the size of a dessert plate, coming
on land periodically for the laying of
eggs. Knew several derelicts who in
season did quite a trade collecting these
ladies for consumption by the local
Chinese, John knowing a good thing
when he got it. White appetite, however,
used rather to balk at the odor of shell-
backs—a trifle that nevertheless passed
to a large extent during the depression
years, many a stone-broke white dining
royally on turtle soup. And that has
been largely responsible for the diminished
turtle population of the swamps and
lakes.
* * * *
“Flight”: Hats off to “Baby .Snatcher”
(B. 14/12/’3B), who presents the kooka-
burra in his true light. If that mas-
querader in feathers is really laughing,
then he’s got a queer sense of hilarity.
I’ve seen that bloke giggle fit to split his
sides when a magpie had dealt him a
father of a hiding. With his feathers
knocked all ways, his hat over one eye
and one optic bunged, he certainly acted
like a stage comedian. I’ve also known
him to guffaw inanely when coming to a
tank that should have had water, and
didn’t. There was nothing funny about
that, as Jack was just as dry as I was.
I had enough sense to go and look for
another waterhole. The fool bird stayed
there. He might be there yet.
* * * *
“Bill Boredrain”: A flock of about
1000 corellas have been visiting our
Queensland station every day for the
last month. I don’t object to their
playing swings on the telephone line,
although they cause it to sag ; nor do
1 mind when they use the wheel of the
big mill as a merry-go-round when it is
turning slowly; but I do object when
they pull the nails out of the boards
that constitute the platform, 40ft. up the
mill tower. Nearly broke my neck
yesterday by leaning back against the
board at the back of the manhole as I
went up to oil the mill. Investigation
revealed that the birds had chipped the
wood away from around the nailheads
with their beaks, and then pulled the
nails —and some of them were a few
inches in, too.
* * * *
“Ornithos”: I was clambering up a
conical stack of oaten sheaves when a
large and energetic tornado materialised
from nowhere in particular, sent me
spinning down the stack, and passed on
into space with a swish of wings. Subse-
quent investigation revealed a black
duck’s nest in the uppermost sheaves.
The tornado was ma making her get-
away. A mile and a half from the
nearest water, and it contained 10 eggs,
of which a broody Orpington hatched
four. As soon as the ducklings were
able to fly they departed to join their
mates in freedom.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Bill McCarthy,
ganger on the Merredin-Nangeenan
section (W.A.), was a stickler for effi-
ciency ; so when he came across five of
us getting in each other’s way on one
side of a truck while Bill played a lone
hand on the other side, he nearly threw
a seven. “Two av yez swap over t’ Bill’s
side,” he bellowed. “Ye an’ Harry'll
do, Tom.” “I’m the wrong hand for
that side,” Tom protested. “I can’t
shovel left hand.” “Phwhat?” snarled
Mac. “An’ yez cahl yeself a gravel-
snatcher. Git out av the pit. Ye’re
sacked! C’n ye shovel left-hand,
Harry?” Harry admitted he couldn’t,
and got his time, too. It looked blue
for the rest of us, but fortunately he
picked on Cock next. Cock, who carried
the sound of Bow Bells in his heart,
spoke confidently and moved over behind
Bill. His first swing sliced through just
behind Bill’s ear; his second scattered
gravel all over us. Mac stopped him
before he killed someone. “Left han’s
not yer best han’, is ut, Cock?” he
asked. “No,” Cock admitted. “But I
can use it.” “Well, that’s all right,”
Mac nodded ; “Oi just wanted ter know.”
* * * *
“Bucko”: Homing instinct of animals?
Our neighbor, trying to lose the family
cat, put it in a bag and, tramping miles
across country, released the prisoner.
Some hours later when he straggled in
behind the cat his wife asked, “What did
you drive the thing home again for?”
“Drive it home!” he echoed savagely.
“If I hadn’t followed the blasted thing
I’d never have found my way back!”
* * sfc *
“Bogaduck”: Our part of S.A. has
been suffering from an unusually severe
attack of cutworms, which have, played
havoc with the vegetables. Making a
sortie one night to deal personally with
the pests, I found that the job was being
done for me in a most effective way.
Bulldog ants were climbing all over the
plants, seizing the cutworms and cart-
ing them off. Henceforth my domain
is a sanctuary for those much-maligned
ants.
* * * *
“Hayband”: Braidwood (N.S.W.)
crows have grown weary of waiting for
drought to spread the table. One sheep-
man thereabouts swears, to it that the
black anathema now alights on the backs
of healthy sheep and, flapping vigorously,
rides the animals till they fall. Eyes
first, of course.
* * * *
“J.M.C.”: “They say the city’s tough,”
said Bill, “but don’t you believe it. Last
time I was down 1 was flat broke and
damn’ hungry. But that didn’t interfere
with me philanthropic instincts. I savv
two kids outside a cafe looking as if they
could eat everything in sight an’ the pro-
prietor chucked in, and I soon had ’em in-
side puttin’ away a square feed. While
they’re polishin’ the last course off I
asked the boss if a lady had been in
askin’ for Mr. Jones. No, he didn’t mind
watching the kids for a minute or two
while I went down the street to look for
their mother. I hope those kids found
their way home all right.”
p # * *
“Tired Tim”: When three of us got
in a five-gallon keg for the Season of
Goodwill, at last a use was found for
the old quartpot. For so long had the
relic been neglected that we temporarily
forgot even its moniker and imagined
we were drinking pints. Consequently,
not only did supply peter out unex-
pectedly very early on Christmas morn-
ing, but the bottle of rum we had in re-
serve proved after an hour of search and
another of meditation to be but a myth
engendered by the first few quick ones.
Say what you like about our Queensland
beer, those pints were the best malt
liquor ever brewed.
YOUNG HORSES.
“All the young horses were handled to-day.”
—Extract from a station diary.
Over the river, by gravel and gum,
To a thunder of hoofbeats, hard-driven, they
come,
A host of young horses, and riders who sway
Like reeds to the wind, and are round and
away
When they find that the brumbies have broken
again
To challenge their wl)ips to the width of a
plain.
But soon they swing in to the red raddled roofs;
In the clouds of the dust dies the song of the
hoofs
When the bark of the whip and the bite of the
lash
Have taken their toll in a venomous flash
Of the leaders that balk to do battle, too late,
For the freedom that fades at the fall of the
gate.
Here they are yarded. Some mare of the strain
Has thrown a black colt to the color again
Of the gallant old stallion whose paces were
known
Wherever great horses, in harness, were shown.
And here there’s a filly, a fine little bay—
From her head to her heels she’s a winner they
say;
And down by the stall there’s a Saracen colt—
His mother was one of the blood of Revolt;
While down by the gateway, all lathered in
dust.
The geldings are waiting, the roan and the rust,
That by virtue of breeding are fated from birth
To the grip of the saddle, the gall of the girth.
A host of young horses; their coats gleaming
bright
With the sheen of their strength and the glance
of the light;
Puzzled lips pricking the hard-bitten rails,
Tender feet treading the pad of new trails,
And wistful eyes watching the shadows that run
Away to the west in the wake of the sun.
Their prison’s the paddock. Their home was
the plain,
Their kindly companions the wind and the rain,
That together at even to exiles will bring
A breath of the hilltop, the bird on the wing,
And a memory of pastures, imprinted with pain
On hearts that will never know freedom again.
QUEENSLAND.
E.R. MURRAY.


“Mat’s Mate”: One Christmas me and
big Mat was sinkin’ a well on a station
on the Wakool (N.S.W.), and the boss
put it up to all hands that, instead of
canterin’ into the town and doin’ our
cash at the pub, it’d be better to com-
mission him to buy the necessary and
have Christmas on the station. I’ll re-
member that day till I die. There was
lashin’s o’ beer an’ turkey an’ plum
puddin’, an’ the boss handed round
cigars an’ wanted to fight or race any-
one under nine or over 90 on the place.
An’ there was Mat, next mornin’, all
bandaged up, bruises and cuts all over
him, an’ one wrist broke. “You was
lucky to get out of it so light,” I told
him. He couldn’t remember what had
happened. “You climbed to the windmill
tower an’ said you had wings,” I re-
minded him, “an’ you had us all bettin’
whether you could fly from there to
the hut roof, an’ when all bets was set
away you went.” He got pretty wild.
“Fine sort o’ mate you are,” he growls ;
“why didn’t you stop me?” But when I
explained that I had a quid on him bein’
able to do it he quietened down, an’
the boys came in with some more beer
an’ we started all over again. An’ they
found the bloke from Booberoi crawlin’
round the cookhouse with a pair o’
daggin’ shears swearin’ he was Jacky
Howe an’ would shear the flamin’ cat
to prove it. Up at the homestead they
had a lot of that pampas grass stuff in
vases, an’ when the boss ordered Little
Curl to burn it ’cos it was full o’ snakes
the missus reckoned the Christmas was
over an’ put the boss to bed and sent us
back to the hut. An’ that cow Mat was
still moanin’ over me lettin’ him jump
off the windmill. An’ me with a quid
on him!
* * * *
“Toheroa”: A Bulletin writer re-
cently mentioned an Australian pigeon
with the polite habit of rising and bow-
ing to anything passing it. This i$ like-
“Come t' tell 'ee I cant come's mowin', Cap'n. I'm 'ome with a awful
pain in the stummick."
wise a characteristic of Maoriland’s tui,
which likes nothing better than to have
an audience watching its antics and lis-
tening to its mimicry. Even more than
its melodious notes the onlooker appre-
ciates the bird’s endearing manner of
stopping suddenly, spreading its wings
elaborately, and bowing to the watchers.
"I'll have a ride if you pick me out a quiet one."
In between times it dances and goes
through all manner of fantastic exercises.
The ancient Maoris are supposed to have
managed to make the tui talk by slitting
its tongue, but that cruelty, like keeping
the birds in cages, is a thing of the past,
and nowadays anyone injuring the well-
protected bird would get short shrift.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: Well, it came to pass!
A while ago an Aboliar, commenting on
the establishing of a sewerage system in
Kalgoorlie, opined that some odd gold
or gold reefs were likely to turn up in
the course of digging operations. The
other day the lady licensee of the Palace,
hastening out of her back gate, slipped
and fell among the rubble of the newly-
started excavations. And, behold! when
she arose, not undistressed from her ex-
perience, her hand clutched a small gold
nugget, in which were embedded frag-
ments of quartz. A floater, no less! Now
the problem is, Was that nugget acci-
dentally dropped long ago in that much-
used rear lane, or was it shed from a
reef somewhere in the vicinity but as yet
undiscovered? All the old-timers are on
the watch; it holds possibilities. And
certainly the sewerage excavations will
give the Kalgoorlie town site a “costeen-
ing” that shouldn’t leave much uncovered
—that’s if there’s anything there!
“J.M.C.”: “Cam Cove’s” conversa-
tional method of handling dogs (B.
30/11 /’3B) has landed me in hot water.
As I was busy with the mills I told my
kelpie to attend the muster at McWoolly’s
and bring home any of ours. When he
failed to come home that night I found
he was in the cooler charged with assault.
It appears that he had had words with
old Mac about a sheep whose mark was
defaced by a shear cut and had finally
done his block. As he was my agent, I
am liable for damages.
* * =p *
“Plain Bill”: During the 47 years I’ve
kicked around N.S.W. and Queensland,
from Cobar to the Gulf, I’ve met hun-
dreds of lone travellers —drovers, boun-
dary riders, musterers, rabbit-fence in-
spectors, land rangers and packhorse
travellers —and seldom met one that was
not equipped with his quartpot, whether
round, oval, flat-sided or the Jack Shea
type. I’ll bet any of these Martin-place
outbackers who have been condemning
this handy utensil
that every real bush-
man, before leaving
the cook’s galley of
a morning, has his
quartpot, with tea
and sugar, tied to one
side of his saddle
and his lunch in the
saddle-pouch on the
other side. Anyone
who ever raced after
a mob of scrub cattle
or lively wethers in
timbered country
with a billycan tied
to his saddle would
alter his opinion of
the disparaged quart-
pot when he found
the billy on the
saddle seat when he
wanted to get there
himself to dodge an
overhanging limb.
Nearly every man on
station work in the
back country has to
carry his lunch or go
without a feed all
day, and that is
where the q.p. comes
into its own. Boiling
the pot is another
matter —if you make
a fire and put it on
the fire it will boil,
but if you put it
alongside of the fire you must be pre-
pared to wait. Getting it off the fire
when boiled is too simple to warrant any
comment.
“Bull-ant Bill”: “Blow me if I’d ever
’ave done like ’Arry the Nut did,” said
Old Joe, “an’ ’ave a flamin’ crow support
me. Y’see, ’Arry finds a crow nest made
uv fencin’ wire, and sells it ter a traveller
at Kelly’s pub fer ’arf a quid as a curio.
’E’d tipped the young ’un out, and w’en
’Arry comes staggerin’ ’ome ’e sees it
’oppin’ along ahead showin’ ’im the way
’ome. Next day ’e gives it a bit o’
tucker, an’ soon it’s callin’ ’im a ruddy
blankard, plain as me or you could, an’ ’e
wus, too. Desprit shook ’e got on the
cow, alius teachin’ it more bad lang-
widge, until the council starts payin’ a
thrummer bounty fer crows’ ’eads, an’
’Arry reckons the flamin’ crow’s got ter
earn its livin’. So ’e gets ’is gun cleaned,
takes the crow in a bag, an’ gets set in
a bit o’ cover near the old slaughter-
’ouse. Then ’e starts pinchin’ the crow,
an’ after a bit it knocks orf swearin’ and
lets out a squawk wot brings all the crows
fer miles around ter see what’s the
matter. ’Arry lets go both barrels an’
bags a quid’s worth o’ crows in one go.
Lived on the game fer years after, till ’e
got on the pension. Then ’e sends in its
’ead fer the last thrummer.”
* * * *
“Ingeli”: “Nakhoda” may laugh (B.
7/12/’3B) at the idea of orang-outangs—
the name is merely “wild man” translated
into Malay—being trained to throw hand
grenades. All that is wrong is that the
cable liar has chosen the wrong monk.
If he had said baboons, I might myself
have fallen for the tale. And if “Nak-
hoda” doesn’t believe me, let him heave
a rock into the middle of a community
of blue-sterns on top of a well-gibbered
kopje. I won’t ask him to go and apolo-
gise afterwards, because afterwards, prob-
ably, there will be no “Nakhoda.” The
trouble about using orang-outangs for
the job is that they are not gregarious
and there would be trouble in col-
lecting a platoon of them; but there
is no reason why any muscular monk,
should not be trained to heave bombs.
All simians share with man a gift not
given to the ordinary run of animals —
that of being able to achieve sharp eye
focus on both near and remote objects.
The ancient Egyptians trained baboons —
which take their name from an Egyptian
god—to pick fruit.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: This year is the centenary
of the arrival in Australia of John
Gould, then 34, to study and systematise
our native birds. No job of natural
history was ever better or more
thoroughly, done. Travel was slow, com-
fortless, and full of risks, abos. were
still dangerous, and few Government
amenities were available for his assist-
ance. In 18 months he collected, de-
scribed and mounted 1858 specimens,
including over 200 new species, at a cost
of £2OOO to himself. Returning to Eng-
land, he published his great work, The
Birds of Australia, in seven volumes,
with 600 plates, all hand-colored, at £ll5
the set. A supplement with 81 plates
followed present price around £ll2.
The British Museum refused to buy his
collection for £lOOO, or even to take it
as a gift if they bought 25 copies of
the book, so it went to America. Gould’s
works on birds of other countries totalled
over 50 volumes, but the Australian work
was his greatest. His self-chosen epitaph
was “John Gould; The Bird Man.”
A MATTER OF COMPARISON.
“With another day at 119'deg. , Marble Bar
recorded the highest reading for the Commonwealth.
—Meteorological report.
When inland temperatures soar t
And fiercely burns the sun, with ne er
The slightest zephyr to restore
Some movement to the sizzling air;
While men are gasping in the glare
They may reflect, though parched they are,
That, while it’s like an oven there,
It’s hotter still in Marble Bar.
About one hundred and a score
In Zululand may be “just fair,”
But here to most of us ’tis more
Then we can reasonably bear.
And so it’s comforting, I swear,
When roads are lakes ot boiling tar,
With calm and reason to compare
The place you’re in with Marble Bar.
Let bushfires leap like sea to shore
And singe your roof off, or your hair,
Let west winds through the garden roar:
Though they are tough on wear and tear
Rage not, nor moan in black despair,
But gently thank your lucky star
At least you’re not obliged to dare
The atmosphere at Marble Bar.
L’Envoi.
Prince, every citizen elsewhere
Knows somewhere else that's worse by
far —
But here’s a poser, fair and square :
What do they say at Marble Bar ?
, N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Latest Parisian Oval Plaited Leather
Sports Belt. Very flexible and
comfortable; with a new Chromium
Interlocking Buckle. Price 10/6.
Please give your waist measurement
when ordering.
PIKE BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 6.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived.—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddom K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
113 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of New Zealand
Net To Re- Re-
• March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 209,803 14 p.c. = 280,000 2,165,572
1929.. 209,582 14 „ „ 280,000 2,155,154
1930.. 259,017 12 „ „ 240.000 19,017 2.174,171
1931.. 194,286 10 „ „ 200,000 2,168,457
Exchange and contingencies, £50,000.. 2,118,457
1932.. 163,836 7 p.c. = 140,000 23,836 2,142,293
Exchange and contingencies, £40,000.. 2,102,293
1933.. 102,448 4 p.c.= 80,000 l .
Written off premises, £lO,OOO J 12,448 2,114,741
Exchange and oontingenoies, £40,000.. 2,074,741
1934.. 121,674 4 p.c. = 80,000 ) „ ...
Written off premises, £lO,OOO J 31,674 -,106,41 a
Exchange and contingencies, £530,000.. 1,576,415
1935.. 118,949 4 p.c. = 80,000 38,949 1,615,364
1936.. 88,594 4 „ „ 80,000 1 _ ln , OM
Written off premises, £lO,OOO ( 1,613,9.>3
1937.. 88,838 4 p.c. = 80,000 1 , rl ,
Written off premises, £lO,OOO \
1938. . 91,727 44 p.c. = 80,833 [ ao , Iri „ ron
Written off premises, £lO,OOO ) 894 1,613,690
There is not the profit in private bank-
ing in the Dominion there used to be,
and, since the outlook is obscure, it is
difficult to say when, if ever, bank earn-
ings are likely to recover their old robust-
ness.
As the “Wild Cat” long since pointed
out, it was the rise in national income
from exports that enabled the Govern-
ment to continue so long its programme
of vigorous spending on public works,
increased social services, guaranteed
prices for dairy produce, higher wages
and shorter hours without mishap to
either trade or the currency. Now that
there has been a sharp contraction in
export income, without any curbing of
costs, and since advances to the Govern-
ment from its own Reserve Bank have
mounted rapidly, Maoriland’s economy
has received a jolt. The first effects
have been a heavy demand for London
credit; so heavy, indeed, that the Gov-
ernment has been obliged to suspend the
statutory obligation of the Reserve Bank
to give sterling, when demanded, for its
notes. At the same time, exports are
to be licensed and imports controlled.
The immediate purpose is to ensure that
Maoriland will not default on payment
of interest on its overseas debt, and to
provide funds for payment for essential
imports.
By licensing exports the Government
seeks to ensure that sterling funds
obtained from the sale of exports will
become part of the Government’s
London funds, thus preventing, so far
as it can, establishment of an independent
exchange pool—experience shows that a
“black” market, fed partly through exter-
nal investments, almost invariably springs
up under such conditions. Control of
.imports means control of the demand on
London funds. The Reserve Bank’s hold-
ing of sterling fell from £18,278,000 at
May 30 to slightly more than £5,000,000
during the last week in November. It
is estimated that about half the decline
was due to seasonal influences, about a
third to excess imports, and the remain-
ing sixth to export of capital. The excess
imports and export of capital reflect the
fears of some people as to what might
happen, especially in connection with
costs and the currency.
The declared intention of the Govern-
ment is to import less and to increase
both primary and secondary production.
But primary and secondary outputs are
not likely to increase unless producers
are satisfied they can make a profit. So,
whether exchange control, etc., will prove
to be a temporary expedient or the fore-
runner of further difficulties will depend
largely upon how Government activities
affect the fundamental economic prob-
lems involved. If the Government tem-
pers its public works and social schemes
with caution, and puts the brake on taxa-
tion and wage increases, and provided
satisfactory prices are obtained for ex-
ports, sterling balances sufficient to cover
service of the overseas debt and normal
trade requirements can be expected to
accumulate, and confidence in the out-
look for trade and the currency will be
gradually restored. The next testing point
will be the terms and conditions and
public response to the proposed internal
loan for public works early in the new
year.
In point of size the London-controlled
National ranks next after the big B.N.Z.
Shareholders received a steady 14 p.c.
for the decade to the close of accounts
in 1929. Then slump brought the rate
down to 4 p.c., and political and other
developments kept it there until the close
of accounts in 1937.
After providing for contingencies and
sending £14,000 (same as in previous
year) to the staff-pension and gratuity
funds, the board figured net earnings for
the 12 months to the end of March last
£2889 better at 4.5 p.c. on capital, or a
mere 2.5 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined). The
div. was lifted half a pqint, making it
nominally 4| p.c., the final being at the
nominal rate of 5 p.c. p.a. Hitherto divs.
have been declared free of income tax,
but the one for the latter half of the
last term was subject to English income
at the rate of 3s. Bd. in the pound, which
makes 5 p.c. worth only a shade over
4 p.c. sterling, or 5 p.c. in Maoriland
currency.
The market prices the £7 10s. shares
paid to £2 10s. at £2 10s., or. thereabouts,
as against £3 a year ago. Visibly the
cover is £4 10s. 4d. in net tangibles, or
about £2 more than the market value,
and the inner strength is believed to be
substantial. It is a striking commentary
on the low earning power of the business
and upon what the market thinks about
the outlook.
Judged ns a lender, which is its chief
use to the community, the co. is render-
ing excellent service, as the following
comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows:
1934. 1937. 1938,
Paid capital .. £2,000,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Notes .. .. 1,111,225
Bills .. .. 1,313.405 1,488,045 1,334,170
Deposits .. .. 15,595,880 13,751,541 13,908,007
Liquid assets . . 12,288,558 0,840,237 5,144.798
Advances, bills, etc. 9,248,240 11,431.238 13,117,050
Premises .. .. 030,128 021,507 035,513
To meet the growth of £1,685,812 in
last year’s advances and of £14,006 in
premises, liquids were drawn upon for
£1,695,439, reducing them to 33.7 p.c. of
liabilities to the public as against 44.9
p.c. a year earlier. Advances amounted
to 94.3 p.c. of deposits, and the co. was
holding £4 4s. 4d. of the public’s money
for every pound of its own. The co. will
not be able to extend its lending con-
nections much further without getting in
more deposits, and they might become
increasingly difficult to attract.
Clifford Love and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.t
£ £ £ £
1928.. 32,337 124 p.c. = 25,599 6,738 73,976
1929.. 32,958 12j „ „ 26,423 6,535 80,511
1931.. 25,539 10 „ „ 21,138 4,401 86,122
1932. 23,125 10 „ „ 21,138 1,987 88,109
1933.. 25,320 10 „ „ 21,138 4,182 92,291
Premiums on shares, £5250 .. .. 97,541
1934.. 25,506 10 p.c. = 21,336 4,170 101,711
1935.. 26,688 10 ~ „ 22,050 4,638 106,349
1936.. 26,586 10 „ „ 22,188 4,398 110,747
1937.. 26.340 10 ~ „ 22,188 4,152 114,899
1938.. 26,880 10 „ „ 22,188 4,692 119,591
f Subject to trade-marks, etc., now £72,500.
This co., which is in the dry-goods trade,
turns out some high-grade and well-
established proprietary lines, including
oatmeal, cornflour, starch and rice, and
handles tea and other Asiatic lines as
well. A glance at the table explains why
the market has a high opinion of the
scrip. Ever since the public became
interested in 1922, when Brown and
Poison’s business was absorbed, share-
holders have had a steady 10 p.c., de-
spite slump. Further, the 10 p.c. was
sweetened with a 24 p.c. bonus for the
half-dozen years to the close of accounts
in 1930, plus some new share-issues at par,
which were also in the nature of bonuses
to shareholders because the scrip com-
manded a high premium in the market.
The new capital was used to help pay
for new plant, which has been very
helpful so far as costs are concerned,
and that means much these days.
Trading conditions were mixed last
year. Still, after setting aside an extra
£lOOO for taxation (£9000) and openly
reserving the usual £5OO for bad debts,
there was enough to show 12.1 p.c. on
capital as against 11.8, 11.9, 12.1, 11.8,
11.9, 10.9, 12, 13 and 15.5 p.c. back to
1929. That leaves out of the reckoning
£lO3O added to the insurance reserve
(£13,150) and £5451 net to the reserve
for contingencies, depreciation, etc.
(£134,074), so the co. may have done a
bit better than was claimed.
At 50s. (565. a year ago) the fully-
paid pound shares return 4 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis, with possibilities as a
holding proposition. Including the in-
surance and contingency reserves,
together equal to 13s. 3d. per share, the
cover is 445. per share in net tangibles.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1985. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. .. £221,884 £221,884 £221,884
Mortgages arid overdraft 4,4:11 2,963
Trading debts .. .. 24,603 27,829 29,195
Properties 163,123 175,675 170,049
Machinery, plant, etc... 143,913 150,568 151 093
Stocks 76,752 76,749 72,912
Hook debts . . . . 32,305 36,995 42,960
Cash and sundries .. 3,984 9,377 16,920
The year’s contraction of £3837 in the
book value of stocks and growth of
£5965 in debtors’ balances and of £7549
in cash, etc., are healthy movements.
When the books closed more or less
liquids exceeded outside liabilities by
£103,603, an improvement of £11,274
over the twelvemonth.
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing
„ . _ _. . To Be- Nominal
sept., 1 roht. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 29,972 10 p.c. = 29,063 909 37,777
1929.. 51,511 124 „ ~ 39,488 .12,023 49,800
1930.. 34,027 74 „ „ 25,397 8,630 58,430
1931.. 24,302 6 „ „ 21,000 3,302 61,781
3 932.. 32,538 8 „ ~28,000 4,538 66,269
1933.. 26,575 7 „ „ 24,796 1,779 68.048
1934.. 35,861 8 „ „ 29,600 6,261 74,309
1935.. 39,481 9 „ „ 33,800 6,182 80,490
1936.. 43,948 10 ~ „ 37,000 6,948 87,438
Share premiums, £8692 .. .. 90,130
J 937.. 47.690 10 p.c. = 39,178 8,512 104,642
1938.. 51,875 11 „,. 44,000 7,875 112,517
The board’s Christmas-box to share-
holders is an addition of 1 p.c. to the
div., making 11 p.c. for the year, and
lifting the average for the last four years
to 10 p.c. The co.’s history has been one
of steady expansion, while those on the
register have shared in the growing har-
vests ; and, what is more encouraging
still, the co. is well equipped to win what-
ever profits are to be had from the trade
in high-grade canned foods, condiments,
etc.
During the decade to the close of
accounts in 1929, £200,000 of fresh capi-
tal was gathered at par, £25,000 of bonus
scrip was issued, and divs. averaged 13.3
p.c. Over the same period, new lines
were added to the list of manufactures,
the factories at Richmond and Bendigo
(Vic.) were enlarged, new factories were
erected at Rosebery and Windsor
(N.S.W.), Adelaide (S. Aus.) and Risdon
Park (Tas.), and a growing trade with
Britain, Canada and Southern Asia was
opened up. Then slump interfered, but
the div. never dropped below 6 p.c., and
meanwhile a controlling interest in
Jonathan Reeve Pty., Ballarat (Vic.), was
acquired, and another factory, to treat
berry fruits, was erected at New Town
(Tas.). As conditions improved, earnings
and divs. responded.
During the last term sales, both in the
local and export markets, continued to
expand, and so did costs. The effect of
rising costs, however, was partly offset
by the adoption of more organised
methods and other labor-saving devices.
The spring in gross earnings was £18,400:
Manufacturing Written off
Profit, etc. Expenses. Plant, etc.
1915 .. £44,1G4 £28,601 £2 <>46
1920 .. 65,811 44,256 5,833
1929 .. 180,982 114,990 14,625
1931 .. 133,613 99,637 10,102
1932 .. 143,322 97,686 13,067
1933 .. 132,241 93,928 12,307
1934 .. 143,134 96,209 11,528
1935 .. 155,934 105,422 11,469
1936 .. 173,390 118,255 11,531
1937 .. 178,572 118,723 11,017
1938 .. 196,972 134,628 11,118
Including £ll,llB written off plant, etc.,
exes, took £15,406 of the increase. After
allowing for minor reserve adjustments,
the declared net result was £4185 better at
12.9 p.c. on capital as against 12.1, 11.8,
10.6, 9.7, 7.5, 9.2, 6.9, 10 and 16.3 p.c.
back to 1929. The £7875 that remained
after payment of the div. lifted the vis-
ible lay-by to £112,517, equal to approxi-
mately ss. Bd. per share.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1930. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Capital .. £350,000 £370,000 £400,000 £400,000
Creditors,
deposits, etc. 150,187 15,878 42,457 49,678
Property, plant
and goodwill 241,039 228,153 236,271 239,121
Stock.. .. 261,088 202,264 203,749 286,925
Debtors and
bills .. 70,880 73,037 79,420 89,384
Cush, invest-
ments, etc. 5,007 0,224 10,831 1,767
The property and goodwill figure at
£197,611, and plant, etc., at £41,510, a
very modest figure considering the size
of the business. A year ago the chair-
man said the value of the co.’s fixed assets
was approximately £500,000, or more
than double their book value. Goodwill,
although not stated, does not appear at
a very substantial figure in the books ; it
is included in the £40,000 originally paid
for the old co.’s assets. Including stocks
(up £23,176), the improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£328,398)
over the last 12 months was £10,849.
Although costs are still on the up-
grade, and Maoriland’s import restrictions
may affect the co.’s trade with the
Dominion, repetition of the 11 p.c. div.
for the current term may not prove
beyond reach.
At 41s, 6d. the pound shares return
5.2 p.c. on an 11 p.c. div. basis, with pos-
sibilities later on. The net tangible cover
(book value) is 255. Bd.
Victoria Palace, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1928.. 19,975 174 p.c. = 19,015 960 35,144
Premiums on shares, £30,800 .. 65,944
1929.. 24,432 15 p.c. = 21,010 3422 69,366
Premiums on shares, £4400 .. 73,766
June,
1930*. 11,887 15 p.c. = 11,770 117 73,883
Premiums on shares, £BBOO .. 82,683
Written off, £6OOO .. .. .. 76,683
1931.. 14,275 10 p.c. = 17,880 73,578
1932.. 13,064 7 „ ~ 12,320 744 74,322
1933.. 20,929 10 „ „ 17,000 3329 77,661
Written off, £5O .. .. .. 77,601
1934.. 15,251 10 p.c. = 17,596 655 78,250
Share premiums, £BBOO . . . . 87,056
1935.. 19,717 10 p.c. = 18,607 1110 88,166
Ronus scrip issued, £48,400 .. 39,766
Special depreciation, £20,400 .. 19,366
1936.. 22,305 8 p.c. = 19,360 ) IQ .,
Staff fund, £lOOO J 1945 21,311
1937.. 25,578 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) „ 798 109
Staff fund, £lOOO ( 2/98 24,199
1938.. 22,655 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) o 7fi 04484
To staff fund, £5OO j 37j 24,484
* Half-year.
This Melbourne “dry” hotel, which
began as one of the coffee palaces of the
’eighties, caters largely for country visi-
tors, with whom it remains very popular.
The properties, which provide accommo-
dation for about 850 people, consist
partly of freehold and partly of lease-
hold, and adjoin the Melbourne Town
Hall, with a frontage to Little Collins-
street and an entrance from Collins-street.
The freehold, or centre block, which was
largely rebuilt in 1934, figures in the
books at £246,258. The building lease,
obtained from the Baptist Church, and
on which a nine-storeyed extension of
the premises was erected in 1927, runs
out in 1993. At June 30 it figured at
£97,623, and provision is made for


Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Lite
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. \Y rite
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy. — Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab” Melbourne.
BON VOYAGE!
Jfl-
-0 R I
C 3
L
T
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY LIMITED
I N
tNCORPORATED
ENGLAND
redemption through a sinking fund. The
lease of the ground floor of the Clyde
building, used as a cafeteria, runs out
in 1940, and figures in the books at £1434.
Over the last 11-£ difficult years share-
holders have put up £154,000 of fresh
capital, which brought with it £74,800 of
share premiums, £48,400 of reserves has
been capitalised, and the average declared
rate of dividend has been 11.5 p.c. Dur-
ing the last term, there was a bit less
money about, owing to the fall in prices
for agricultural and pastoral products,
and, after allowing £11,415 (up £214) for
depreciation, £7759 (down £1384) for
taxation and spending £l2OO (down
£6945) on maintenance, etc., the board
figured net earnings £2923 lighter at
£22,655, or 9.3 p.c. on capital, as against
10.5 and 9.2 p.c. for the two preceding
terms. The div. was kept at 9 p.c. Pros-
pects of a bit better showing at the end
o| the current term appear to be encour-
aging, notwithstanding that costs, includ-
ing taxation, remain on the up-grade.
The national insurance slug has been
postponed for the moment.
The market, which looks for nothing
better than 9 p.c. at present, prices
the f.-p. 10s. shares at 16s. 6d. as against
19s. 3d. a year ago. The return at 16s.
6d. is 5.5 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. Ihe
cover is 11s. in net tangibles.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1930. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Capital .. £174,857 £193,000 £242,000 £242,000
Liabilities .. 50,230 117,141 99,490 94,182
Freeholds . . 105,017 204,037 250,707 240,258
Leaseholds .. 102,984 102,092 100,288 99,057
Plant & furniture 41,024 39,757 23,804 21,12 a
Stores . . 007 952 734 840
Debtors . . 505 101 222 127
Investments & cash 0,000 1,819 3,975 7,830
Of the liabilities £84,392 (down (£3457)
is on mortgage. Including this, the excess
of liabilities over more or less liquids at
June 30 last was £85,385, an improve-
ment of £9lBO over the twelvemonth.
N. S. Wales Mineral Output, Etc.
The drop of about £526,000 in the
value of the mineral output of N.S.W.
for 1938 (approximately £15,000,000) is
due mainly to the fall in prices for base
metals and to the stoppage on the coal-
fields in September and October.
Although an extra 77,760 tons ore,
making 1,545,400 tons in all, was raised
and treated at the Barrier, the estimated
value of the lot was only £4,063,200, or
about £1,300,000 less than for 1937. The
average London spot quotes for metal in
sterling compare as follows:
Electrolytic
Period. Lead. Spelte”. Copper.
1925-29 .. £27 311 £29 17 2 £69 19 5
1930-34 .. 13 110 14 410 42 511
]93f, 14 5 5 14 2 2 35 14 1
1930 .. 17 12 10 14 18 6 42 17 8
1937 . 23 411 22 4 0 60 1 7
1938 (11 mths.) 15 4 8 14 0 0 40 16 C
The drop in the 1938 average (11 months)
for lead was £8 os. 3d. (34.4 p.c.), for
spelter £8 4s. Od. (36.9 p.c.) and for elec-
trolytic copper £l9 ss. Id. (32 p.c.). The
earnings of the silver-lead, copper and
spelter cos. suffered, of course. Prices
strengthened a little toward the close of
the year, and hopes are that more settled
conditions in Europe and a revival of
trade activity in the U.S.A. will give a
little further genuine stiffening to quotes
in the new year.
The output of coal (9,600,000 tons)
was down 451,000 tons, and the cheque
(£5,800,000) was £23,400 lighter. Exactly
what the future holds for the industry, in
which there are still too many producers
for the volume of trade available, it is
difficult to say. Competition threatens to
keep profit margins fine, and poor divi-
dend prosp. ts keep the scrip of 13 of
the 14 cos. listed on Sydney ’Change at
a discount in the market.
With the new Wilputte ovens at Port
Kembla in operation, coke production
was the best yet, being 1,139,000 (up
199,000) tons, valued at £1,143,000 (up
£233,000). The demand for cement was
a little better, too, the output being
430,000 (up 7000) tons, valued at
£1,370,000 (up £20,000). The 430,000
tons, however, was only about half total
plant capacity for the State.
Ownership of Hannan’s Reward and
Mt. Charlotte, two Kalgoorlie goldmines
of promise, is still in dispute. In the
Warden’s Court, Hannans Hill Amal-
gamated, N.L., claimed that Barbican
Corp. and Mt. Charlotte, Ltd., two Lon-
don cos., were in wrongful possession.
Mt. Charlotte contended that the proper-
ties mentioned were placed under option
by Hannans Amalgamated to Barbican
Corp., and that such option was later
exercised by Mt. Charlotte as the nom-
inee of Barbican Corp. After a pro-
tracted hearing, the warden decided
against Hannans Hill Amalgamated,
and a Supreme Court Judge upheld
his decision. Hannans Hill now pro-
poses to appeal to the High Court against
the Supreme Court’s decision.
* * * *
Chairman C. S. Beale was in a bullish
mood at the Paringa (W.A.) meeting in
London on Dec. 17. He claimed that
there was plenty of ore available, and
that many of the ore-bodies now being
opened up were entirely new finds. He
added that both mining and milling would
be expanded, and that the co.’s future
was assured for many years. After these
words shareholders will naturally look
for deeds to match. The first, a final
dividend of 2\ p.c. and an interim of 1\
p.c., in all 10 p.c., on Is. shares, is here
placed to the credit of the co.
* * * *
Production at Youanmi (W.A.) is
steadily mounting. Since reopening and
equipment two years ago, the mine has
produced approximately quarter of a mil-
lion pounds’ worth of bullion in Austra-
lian currency. Ore reserves are reported
well ahead of the mill and increasing.
The property was formerly held by You-
anmi, Ltd., which had H. C. Hoover as
chairman and his brother, T. J. Hoover,
as a director. This concern carried on
as a producer with occasional breaks for
about 12 years, and then gave up on
account of refractory ore and inability
to raise further capital. The State, busi-
ness houses and wage men benefited, but
shareholders got nil.
* * * *
At the annual roll-up in Perth the other
day, chairman J. L. Paton urged share-
holders of First Hit (W.A.) to be of good
cheer. Small but regular dividends are
being paid, and, according to the chair-
man, there are no indications of any
diminution in the width and value of the
mine’s gold-carrier as it goes down.
Directors’ fees were increased from £350
to £4OO a year.
* * * *
In a report on the Blue Spec goldmine,
Nullagine (W.A.), Bewick, Moreing and
Co. says further development is justified.
Consolidated Gold Areas, which decided
to try its luck at Nullagine after meeting
with reverses on Hampton Plains, pro-
poses to float a subsidiary to operate the
Blue Spec if it gets a turn up there.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
5 i
i IS
till
n
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METRO? OLE," Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“A healthy man should sleep like a top.”
—Tonic ad.
What we object to is the man in the
next room sleeping like a humming-top.
* * * *
All we need now is one of the flapper
dailies to publish a turf guide to the turf
guides.
•b b b b
“England introduces telephone capable of
carrying on 200 conversations simultaneously.”
It is inventions such as this that make
village postmistresses sour.
b b -I*
“He was extremely intoxicated at the time of
his death.” —Medical report.
Died on the spot, as it were!
-b
Holiday visitors are now being taken in.
b b b
“There are men who, when they find them-
selves married to a suitable woman, can go
far.” — Women’s paper.
Others, finding themselves married to
unsuitable women, go farther.
*1" * * *
“Butcher fined for having sold adulterated
tripe.”
The flapper press needn’t be alarmed
—its tripe is unadulterated.
b b b b
“He married a waitress.” — "Sun.”
And, of course, she served him right.
b b b b
“On some islands, natives make a pastry
with ants and flour.” — Anthropologist’s report.
Seems to be a favorite .recipe with
week-end campers, too.
b b b b
“There are few people who can really play
the oboe.” —Overseas musician.
An ill wind that nobody blows any
good ?
b b b *b
“Like his father before him, he became a
journalist.” —Extract from short story.
True to type.
4* b b
“Women use the word ‘little’ more frequently
than any other.” — Women’s paper.
Except when biting the old man for
some cash.
b b b b
“Boxer and Actress to Marry.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
When a footlighter marries a light-
footer she must be tempted to lead him
a dance.
b b b b
“Even amid the chaos of the modern world
men and women still like to spoon.”
— Women’s paper.
But the women now make sure the
spoon is gold-plated.
<b b b
“It is not possible to obtain a marriage
license in Turkey to-day unless you can show
a certificate proving you know the country’s
new alphabet.”— “World’s News.”
And if a wife finds any strange letters
on her husband she soon teaches him
his p’s and q’s.
Very Gripping.
“It was certainly a close contest.”
—Boxing report.
Having witnessed the fight 1 will sadly
agree.
To think of it now makes me flinch !
’Twas the close type of contest where all
one can see
Is a lengthy and wearisome clinch !
T. W. N.
•I* 4*
Muscled Out.
“Now about this new world crisis,”
snapped the editor of the Great Daily.
“Did you get me the views of the Bishop
of Dingo Gully?”
“Yes, chief.”
“Good! And what Sebastian Crackus,
the Left-wing author, and Lena Lump-
head, the film star, think of it? And the
heavweight champ, and Mrs. Bopp, the
society leader, and the negro comedian
at the Tiv.?”
“All here, chief.”
'The editor rubbed his hands with satis-
faction. “They should make a splash on
the front page. I can’t think of anyone
else of importance.”
“Well, there’s the Prime Minister,” said
the reporter. “I thought I’d get his ideas
on the affair while I was about it.”
“Gripes,” said the editor, “I forgot all
about him. There’s not enough room in
to-night’s issue for ’em all. We’ll hold
his stuff over until to-morrow.”
Joe.
“Not so fast, Dave.
“ What's the matter, Myrtle? Ain't afraid of me, are yer ?”
“All women like to sing together.”
— Women’s paper.
Men prefer to join in shouting.
What a simple matter it would be for
a chucker-out to conduct a stay-in strike!
•f* *l* "b
“He had had 17 years pf life.”
Sun.
Exactly!
•I* *S* "i*
According to Euclid.
“Geometry is a popular subject with most
girl students.” — Vic. educational report.
She knew that he moved in the best
circles, and readily encouraged him when
he admired her curves and.tried to do a
line with her. At first, he was on the
square, and by degrees their romance
progressed to a point where love ruled
their very existence. Then one day she
saw him from a different angle. He had
been double-crossing her, for there was
another woman within the radius of his
arms. Not wishing to be drawn in as one
side of an eternal triangle, she left him.
I Melton.
“Beautifying the face should _be looked on
as an attractive game.” — Women’s paper.
Or a parlor-trick.
New Year.
A bright New Year comes in at last.
Whatever is its fate
Let’s hope that we have really passed
The Nineteen Thirty Hate.
H.M.
I Was a Legionnaire.
XV.
If I had been amazed at the sight of
Septimus Spinnaker, my old managing
director, among the new batch of recruits,
he positively gawped, his mouth opening
and shutting like a newly-landed fish, to
see his old cashier barking out military
orders to him. Septimus, who is 16 stone
of bubbles, has three chins, two necks
and a face the color of uncooked silver-
side. When he recovered his composure
he gasped out, “Why, if it isn’t Stupid! ’
At the sound of that affectionate nick-
name, a wave of nostalgia for the old
life swept over me, and I was on the
point of striding forward to wring his
hand (in my old bank days I would have
liked to wring his necks) when 1 suddenly
remembered where we were. Instead I
contracted my brows and called on all
my reserve lung-power. I would impress
the fellow with our reversed stations.
“Silence, you shapeless mass of scrofu-
lous worm-provender!” I roared. The
concussion of my voice shattered one
recruit’s rifle, unwound the puttees of an-
other and spun Septimus, who had been
used only to the soft, obsequious voices
of his underlings at the bank, completely
around. As he looked dazedly about him
to see where the ammunition dump had
exploded, I thought of the many times he
had carpeted me. Telling him that his
daily fatigue duty would include scrub-
bing the mud floor of my cubicle, I dis-
missed him. I also made a mental note
to detail him to look after Zubrik, the
most vicious camel on the line.
As Legion discipline forbids the enter-
ing into private conversation between a
sergent and a swaddie under pain ot
reduction to the ranks and ten years in
the penal battalions, I waited until he
was on fatigue duty next day before I
broached the subject of affairs back
home.
Spinnaker wiped half .a gallon of mud
from his eyes before getting up off his
knees. He seemed slightly piqued as he
looked at me. “Can’t” you use your influ-
ence, Stupid, to get me something easier
to do, like sweeping a few sandhills
level?” he asked.
Hard old soldier that I had become,
his use of my old nickname softened
me, and I promised I would see the
Generalissimo about it on his next visit.
Then he got talking, and I learned that
his joining the Foreign Legion followed
his absconding with half a million. When
I asked him whom he’d murdered, he
said “Nobody.”
“Then how did you get into the
Legion?” I asked.
“Pitched ’em a tale ; said I’d strangled
four women!”
I looked at him with the contempt the
honest man must ever have for the liar.
Moreover, this was a slur on the Legion’s
honor. I was just about to denounce
him to the authorities when he mentioned
that he had planted his wad, which he
would recover when he had served his
time in the Legion. He thought that by
that time the scandal would have blown
over, and he would start an s.p. business.
I decided then to postpone my denuncia-
tion of him till later. He asked if 1 had
mine hidden. “It was £480,000, wasn’t
it?” -
“No, all mine’s gone,” I said. “And
it was £380,000,” 1 corrected.
“Of course, of course,” he replied;. “I
remember now. I altered it after you’d
gone and kept the difference. You don’t
m j n< y OU ? After all, it couldn’t
affect you. Anyway, by Jove! you must
have gone the pace to get through that
in five months.
Oh, I have always been a lair
spender, I said mo est y.
In the weeks that followed life flowed
p|casant|y fm . m< _ 0n ~d
p er j cou | ( j now a ff or d many little
] uxur j es denied the ordinary legionnaire,
Moreover, it enabled me to pursue my
wooing of Blanquette, the fille du regi-
merit, with greater confidence. At first
I progressed so well that she used to
sneak me out an extra hall-gallon ot
vin ordinaire from the canteen alter lights
out. I always waited till that hour to see
her, for she was easier on the eyes then,
But the course ot true love rarely runs
smooth, and ours hit a rocky patch. For
a start, she must have shaved of a morn-
ing, so that by “lights out” her face was
like a bass broom. Her annoyingly play-
ful habit of rubbing it against mine soon
had my dial red raw. On top ot that
she was always eating pickled onions,
But the thing that annoyed me most
was her habit of bursting out at mcongru-
ous moments with a bass-soprano laugh
right in my ear. When, after I had
remonstrated with her for this by kicking
her on the chin and she had spitefully
retaliated by cutting my free wine down
to a pint a night, I began to get fed up
with this love business.
But worse than this was to befall me.
One morning when Septimus was doing
his scrubbing, I asked him, in the course
of casual conversation, what particular
bone orchard they’d planted the missus
in. After all, it was a natural enough
curiosity. I’d murdered her, so I was at
least entitled to know where she was. But
Septimus only appeared stupefied until I
kicked him into consciousness again of
my question.
“Planted nothin’!” he at last answered.
“Why, she’s as healthy as you are! I
saw her just before I left. As a matter
of fact, she”
Ye gods! Alive, after swallowing a
pound of diamond dust! What a stomach
the woman must have had.
But my astonishment soon gave way
to my perception of a double danger.
If it became known I was not the double
murderer I had claimed on joining I
might be debarred from the Legion, which
is jealous of its reputation. And if my
wife found out where I was the entire
French African Army couldn’t stop her
from getting at me.
Then I thought of Spinnaker’s hidden
wad, of Blanquette’s cooling towards me,
of the sand, sun, flies and the time I was
taking to become a generalissimo.
My old managing director, I knew, was
fed up. He often complained bitterly
that he hadn’t tasted caviare for months,
and that there wasn’t a chiropodist in the
whole of North Africa.
I therefore suggested that we desert.
In return for my guiding him across the
Sahara to safety he could divvy up his
wad with me. We haggled about the divi-
sion, but in the end we agreed, and began
concerting plans for our escape.
S.W.K.


Patent.
Improvements in Electron Device.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
29800/30 is prepared to negotiate tor the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth, ot Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
\f
/#
W£/
A Gift to
Make You Happy,
A Beverage to
Keep You Fit!
AUTHORISED BY
WINEMAKERS’ ASSOCIATION OF VICTORIA
Business,Rollery,Etc.
We Survive
The mere mortals of the world, if they
ever have time to wonder these days,
might sit back as the Old Year goes out,
ponder on the events of the past 12
months, and ask: How did we ever man-
age to create such a turbulent, treacher-
ous 1938?
It has been a wild year, with the old
order fast changing and the new still in
a nebulous, uncertain shape. Underneath
it all human nature remains much the
same ; but the things that human nature
has had to contend with have varied or
sharply altered with the rising and setting
of each day’s sun.
Until the beginning of 1938 the de-
pression was the world’s last important,
milestone ; with the closing of 1938 a
new milestone has been set up—the Sep-
tember war scare. Other international
difficulties of the preceding three years,
though they may have led towards the
September deadlock, were of minor im-
portance by comparison. Few people
will remember that Italian aeroplanes
first bombed Adowa in October, 1935,
but few will forget that Mr. Chamber-
lain flew to Munich in September, 1938.
The vast force of human emotions at
work during the past year could not but
affect every aspect of life and living in
nearly every country. By reason of
many things—regimentation of industry
in Germany, Italy and Japan contrasting
with regulation of industry and infla-
tion in the U.S.A., France and Maori-
land, for instance —the world was already
out of step financially in September.
Seventeen months previously a light-
hearted view of the possible consequences
of a world war had added a frothy crest
to a wave of recovery in commodity prices
that persuaded people finally and defi-
nitely that the depression was dead and
that happy days were here again. The
crest of the wave broke, and a world-
wide slump in commodity prices was
evident for more than a year afterwards.
Metals, sharpest in rising, were heaviest
in falling. Great economic difficulties
in the U.S.A. and France helped to pre-
cipitate a collapse that was the natural
reaction to overspeculation around the
subject of the influence of rearmament
expenditure on prices of all materials
and foodstuffs.
So 1938, from an economic and politi-
cal aspect, has not been harmonious.
Australia has experienced more peace of
mind than most countries, but the force
of controversial issues even in this coun-
try has had a disturbing influence on
business and politics. Still, the Com-
monwealth went through a period of
extravagant indulgence in whims and
fanciful ideas during the slump, and
Reds who now want war with Germany,
Italy, Japan or any other country that
suggests “Fascism” to them, or who
want strikes or strife within our own
country, are mostly given the cold shoul-
der. Governments are tolerated as the
best of a poor lot offering, but every now
and then some individual member is
singled out at the polls and “made an
example of.” Judgment is handed out
in a slow but certain way.
In spite of the disturbance caused to
Australia’s basic economy by lower world
prices for wool and wheat, particularly
as regards the tightening of credit facia-,
ties owing to shrinkage in London funds
and to the reduced spending of landmen,
the comparatively moderate rise in in-
ternal costs and prices has enabled the
nation as a whole to function at a rea-
sonably prosperous level. Employment
isn’t quite so good as it was, but though
improvement here has been checked, the
decline has so far been very slight. Aus-
tralian economic stability up to the pres-
ent has been outstanding in comparison
with other countries, and contrasts
brightly with Maoriland, where costs have
got completely out of hand owing to a
fanatical Government policy that is kill-
ing the worker (and the country) with
ill-judged “kindnesses.”
On the Stock Exchanges the inter-
national events of 1938 have played up
and down the scale to a very wide ex-
tent. In Australia investors have been
periodically sidetracked by false issues,,
such as indexes of rises and falls in
share prices on the New York Stock
Exchange. Some few were driven to
panic while the Czechoslovakian affair
was at its worst, and there had been
scares before that. Considering the com-
plete lack of speculative interest in any
class of investment
at the moment,
however, the in-
dustrial share?
markets are main-
taining a remark-
ably sound tone,
even if quiet. For
1939 the wool
markets will open
with moderate
prices but with a
demand that will
leave no carryover.
f
The persistent
flow of gold to the
U.S.A. and the rise
in the dollar com-
pared with sterling
are largely ac-
counted for by
America’s big and
favorable balance
of trade during
1938. For the 10
months to Oct. 31
there was an ex-
port surplus of
£292,025,000 stg.,
compared with
£11,864,000 for the
corresponding part
of 1937. This great
swing against the
trade of other
countries is largely
accounted for by a
reduction of no less,
than £307,765,000
in U.S. imports. Ex-
ports actually fell
away £27,604,000,
so the favorable balance is largely a result
of tightening-up, and not by any manner
of means due to buoyant trading con-
ditions. During the first 10 months of
1938 £310,000,000-worth of gold entered
the U.S.A.
* * * *
Cocks Eldorado, working on Reedy
Creek (Vic.), has published final results
for the year to Sept. 30 ; they are slightly
larger than a total of the weekly clean-up
indicated. From 1,846,660 yards dredged
a recovery of 10,5990 z. gold and 181
tons tin concentrates was made, the lot
valued at £120,364. Net profit rose from
£41,590 to £71,001. Average value per
cubic yard was 15.64 d. (against 10.16 d.),
costs were 4.68 d. (4.91 d.), and net profit
was 10.96 d. (5.25 d.). This page for some
time prior to publication of the accounts
tipped a profit of between £70,000 and
£BO,OOO. The 4s. div. absorbed £55,000,
and a nice little pile of liquid assets is
mounting up. Boring has shown the
mine’s working life to be longer than
originally estimated.
* * * *
Carpet Manufacturers, Ltd., formed in
Sydney about two years ago, turned out
its first piece of carpet on June 3 last.
Skilled keymen were brought from
overseas to supervise manufacture, and
the product being turned out promises
to reach a standard of excellent quality.
The trade is receiving the co.’s carpets
well. There are 72,847 £1 shares issued,
£13,394 on which was uncalled or unpaid
on June 30 last, and £6l of calls in
advance, making paid capital £59,514.
Capital outlay on factory and plant runs
to £40,767, stocks, etc., figure at. £4197,
cash at £3658, and intangibles (including
goodwill) at £14,058. The co. owes only
£3166, so with the uncalled capital at its
disposal it is in pretty shipshape con-
dition to go out with its order-book
and look for business. Prospects are
encouraging.
* * * *
Though Meggitt, Ltd., maintained its
interim ord. div. at 10 p.c. p.a., the
sharemarket response wasn’t noticeable.
The scrip kept at near 295. 6d., cum div.,
yielding 7 p.c. Investors are guessing as
to future activity in the building trade,
which Meggitt largely supplies with
linseed oil.
* * * *
A fortnight ago in London Colonial
Secretary Malcolm MacDonald said he
didn’t think any section of British opinion
was disposed to hand over to any other
country an acre of Britain’s colonies or
mandated territories.
, .......
That view is shared by the Government.
We are not discussing this matter. We
are not considering it. It is not now an
issue of practical politics, and if we were
ever to come to the discussion of this
S?°hav?'?o e be'borne'Tif m'lff W “ ch
.
That should dissipate any leeling of
jitters concerning Australian investments
in Mandated New Guinea. Possibility
of returning the territory to Germany
has been a bogey so far as Bulolo Gold
Dredging and Placer Development are
concerned ; confidence on this question
should now be fully restored.
* t .j* c it, * •
Edments, Ltd of Melbourne, runs six
chain stores, including one in Perth. Ihe
“ Don't look now, but I think We're being followed .”
co. is in a small way yet, but it has
promise; the earnings of 11.8 p.c. on
average capital last year covered the 10
p.c. div. Paid capital is now £52,500,
and finances are comfortable. Prospectus
estimated earnings at 15 p.c., and in
Nov., 1936, the shares soared to 595. 6d.,
falling to 255. 6d. when the 1937 accounts
showed earnings at only 5.3 p.c. p.a. on
capital. In Feb., 1938, a one-for-two cash
issue helped to make things look a bit
better for shareholders who had paid
high prices for their scrip. The organisa-
tion is doing an increasing business dur-
ing the current year.
* * * *
Manton and Sons, a Bourke-street
store founded in 1925 and established on
the old Theatre Royal site in 1934, has
become an increasingly important
operator in Melbourne’s drapery trade.
Public interest is confined to 140,000 7
p.c. cum. prefs., raised in 1936, and
which are at 275. on ’Change. The ords.
get 10 p.c. p.a. now, and distributions
are well covered by current earnings. The
co. has £30,000 (cost) in Sydney Snow,
Ltd., Sydney, and during 1938 Mantons
joined up with a “well-established over-
seas buying organisation.”
* * * *
That first-class geological mystery
Gold Mines of Papua (Misima Island)
has shown a loss of £9lBl for the five
months to June 30 last. It has been
another sharemarket shock. There are
540,000 shares of ss. each issued. In
November, 1935, it was “confidently
anticipated” that blocking-out would
show more than 400,000 tons of ore
above drainage level. On later develop-
ment this was defined as 250,000 tons
oxidised ore going about s.7dwt. and
150,000 tons sulphides. Of the oxides,
120,000 tons was said to have been com-
pletely blocked out in October, 1937. Re-
coveries of 90 p.c. (41s. a ton) and work-
ing costs of 21s. a ton were then men-
tioned. On the basis of treating 3000 tons
a month “the annual profit should be in
the vicinity of £36,000 Aust.” However,
though the plant was started up this
year, capacity hasn’t been reached, nor
have values been anything like those
mentioned in the 1937 annual report.
Working costs, which averaged 41s. 3d.
a ton for the first five months, have
been got down to 225. a ton, and further
improvement is looked for. Battery
sampling, which showed head values
ranging from 4.95dwt. to 5.05dwt., has
been described by engineer D. F. Scott
as unreliable owing to the mixed size
of the ore. Recoveries have been more
like 3dwt. Better values seem to be indi-
cated in the mine’s lower levels. But the
sharemarket is down in the dumps now.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Stock Exchanges closed firm.
O. Gilpin, chairman of O. Gilpin, Ltd.;
which runs a chain of stores in Vic., N. S.
Wales, S.A. and Tas. country districts, and
has a largely female staff, announced that he
would offer a parcel of 200,000 of his ord.
shares to the public at a price of 225. 6d. each.
Pref. shareholders will be entitled to take up
one for two. The ord. div. dropped from
10 p.c. to 8 p.c. this year, but the ord. issue
is likely to be rushed.
Associated Pulp and Paper announced the
manufacture, at its Burnie (Tas.) factory, of
its first lot of U-Clypt brand printing paper,
made from 100 p.c. eucalyptus woodpulp. The
entire works are now in successful operation.
Emperor shares recovered to 10s.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Sad Case of Madame Tabouis.
[The ludicrous vaporings of Madame Tabouis have
or years been served up by Australian newspapers as
a eading part of so-called foreign affairs information,
with only The Bulletin ever questioning the trust-
woithiness or authority of Madame’s statements. In
the article here condensed from London “Tablet” the
historian Christopher Hollis conclusively exposes this
voluble darling of the cable columns.]
Madame Tabouis, whom we are so often and so
loudly called upon to admire as the possessor of
recondite secrets upon international policies, has pro-
duced a book called Perfidious Albion—Entente Cor-
diale, which offers us a fair opportunity of seeing
whether Madame Tabouis does really know so very
much more than the rest of us or not.
It reveals that Madame Tabouis holds the fol-
owing strange beliefs: An “ineffaceable mark” was
left on French character by the memory of “the
Burghers ol Calais.... begging for clemency from a
King of England, the aftermath of Agincourt, bloodi-
est battle of the Middle Ages” (p. 22). The Battle of
Agincourt was in 1415. The episode with the Burghers
ot Calais was in 1346, and the King of England at
that date not Henry V., but Edward 111. Belgian in-
dependence (p. 30) Madame Tabouis imagines to have
been achieved in 1811. 1761 instead of 1763 for the
Treaty of Paris, Louis XII. for Louis XIII. as the
brother of Henrietta Maria, may be slips of the pen.
But with each fresh instance we grow more aware
that here is writing which fits very lightly to her
history book.
She imagines (p. 39) that the American Declara-
tion of Independence was in 1766. The British states-
man of the French Revolutionary War who is known
to history as Grenville is known to Madame Tabouis
(p. 43) as “Glanville,” the treaty which concluded
that war, to others the Treaty of Amiens, to Madame
Tabouis (p. 45) the “Treaty of Antwerp.”
In the post-Napoleonic world we are told that
England kept out of Europe—which is, roughly speak-
ing, true enough—but, as example of this abstention
and its consequence, given (p. 54) the surprising refer-
ence to “the French naval victory over the Turks
at Navarino.” Navarino happens to be the only battle
in Europe, naval or military, in which the British did
take a part in the generation after Waterloo.
On page 94 we are told that “after the events of
1871, Bismarck and Cavour had no objections to a
French colonial expansion.” Madame Tabouis omits
to give us the most convincing reason why this is per-
fectly true of Cavour —which was that he died in 1861.
But, if she means that Italian policy after 1871 had
no objection to French colonial expansion, that Italian
policy, for instance, did not object to French acquisi-
tion of Tunis, then her ignorance is so Himalayan as
to be almost unbelievable. For it was, of course, this
dislike of French expansion in Africa which drove
Italy into the Triple Alliance, and it is no exaggera-
tion to say that a writer who does not understand
this does not understand anything at all about the
politics of the last half of the nineteenth century.
From page 100 it seems clear that she thinks that
Mr. Joseph Chamberlain was Prime Minister of
Britain at the beginning of this century. On page 124
she quite explicitly states that Lord Haldane shared
Lord Morley’s views concerning the war of 1914,
and resigned from the Cabinet along with him at its
outbreak. On page 151 she tells us that M. Clemen-
ceau came into power in 1913, instead of 1917. On
page 194 she speaks of Russia and Germany as, in
1920, at the time of the Russian invasion of Poland,
“almost allied since the 1919 Treaty of Brest-Litovsk.”
The Treaty of Brest-Litovsk was signed in March,
1918. Diplomatic relations between Germany and
Russia were broken off by Prince Max of Baden in
November, 1918. So far from Russia and Germany
being “almost allied” at the time of the Russian
invasion of Poland, it was the confessed intention of
the Russians to carry their invasion on through Poland
and attack the German Government, had fortune
favored them. The Rapallo Agreement, by which
one might perhaps say that Russia and Germany
became “almost allied,” was not to take place until
1922.
Madame Tabouis’s geography is hardly more fault-
less than her history. From page 218 it appears that
she thinks that Kiel is on the Rhine. She confounds
it, presumably, with Kehl. The story of Locarno, as
told by her on pages 224 and 225, is of a confusion
quite unbelievable. She begins the story with a mes-
sage from a German attache in Paris to M. Herriot
“on February 9, 1928.” Stemming from that, we are
told of a speech by Sir Austen Chamberlain on March
24, 1925. “This vainglorious speech roused mis-
trust in France. Nevertheless, M. Herriot esteemed
that there was a possibility for French diplomacy,”
and went off to Chequers to see Mr. Ramsay
MacDonald.
Now the facts are that M. Herriot visited Mr.
MacDonald at Chequers in the early summer of 1924.
At the end of 1924 there was an election. Mr!
MacDonald went out of office and Mr. Baldwin came
in. Sir Austen Chamberlain was Mr. Baldwin’s
Foreign Secretary. Needless to say, he was not in
office under Mr. MacDonald. Madame Tabouis
ascribes M. Herriot’s visit to Chequers to a speech of
Sir Austen Chamberlain which was not delivered until
some ten months after that visit took place. On page
244 we are told that Mr. MacDonald put forward an
“original theory to the effect that the subjects of any
country of less than ten million inhabitants were no
better than natives.” It need hardly be said that he did
nothing of the kind.
We are told in explanation of France’s reluctance
to pledge herself fully to British support over Abys-
sinia that “England had betrayed the principles of
the League of Nations when Germany remilitarised
the Rhineland.” As everybody knows, the Sanctions
against Italy were decided in October, 1935, and the
militarisation of the Rhineland followed in March,
1936.
On page 278 we are told that, when Mr. Baldwin
began the rearmament programme, “the British public,
as one man, was behind” him. He was, in fact,
strongly opposed by the Labor party. On page 289,
Madame Tabouis professes to quote Mr. Chamberlain’s
words at the Cabinet of February 29: “It would be
more opportune,” he said, “to detach Italy from Ger-
many.” What is her evidence that he said that? Was
she hiding under the table? The source of her infor-
mation upon this mysterious meeting is the more in-
teresting because there was, of course, no such day
as February 29 in this year. On page 290, she tells
us that “the Duce sent a flamboyant congratulatory
message to the Fiihrer” on the occasion of the
Anschluss. It was universally noted that his message
contained no word of congratulation. On page 300,
she shows herself to imagine that the Abyssinian
debate at Geneva succeeded the May weeß-end scare
of a German invasion of Czechoslovakia. It preceded
it by a week.
Her solution for the Czechoslovakian question is
that President Benes should have asked President
Roosevelt to mediate between the Czechs and the
Sudetens. What President Roosevelt was expected to
do if Herr Hitler had rejected his award, she does not
discuss, and it shows an ignorance of the world that
is truly amazing to imagine that American opinion
would ever have allowed the President to undertake
such a task. Yet, if one were to start challenging
Madame Tabouis’s judgment, one could continue this
article almost indefinitely. But it is waste of time to
debate upon the interpretation of the facts of one
who is clearly entirely unacquainted with the facts
themselves. Spreading herself over a generous canvas,
Madame Tabouis has in this book ample opportunity
of proving that there is no era of history and no coun-
try of the world upon which she is not incompetent
to write. We must be grateful to her for giving us
the proof, for there can, indeed, be few other living
writers who are as ignorant of anything as Madame
Tabouis is of everything.
It is not out of offensiveness, or a desire to hurt,
that I write thus. But it so happens that Madame
Tabouis’s preposterous interpretations of current his-
tory are splashed about in newspapers of England,
France and the United States [and Australia]. It is,
most seriously, one of the gravest of contemporary
international dangers that this rubbish should be lapped
up, in these difficult times, by people who are not
competent to assess it. There are many matters upon
which it is, to-day, unfortunately, inevitable that people
of goodwill should differ, but surely they can unite,
if on nothing else, in their condemnation of such
writing as that of Madame Tabouis.
Germany Strikes Out for Trade.
[Condensed from the introduction to an arresting
series of articles by a special correspondent in London
“Times.”]
At the outset we should be prepared to recognise
that Germany has it in her power to win for herself
a commercial supremacy in certain parts of the world
far more complete than any she gained before the
war. If this were not so, indeed, peace would be
impossible, for it is clearly dependent upon the success
with which the topheavy warlike economy of Ger-
many can be adapted during the next few years to
serve a large export trade.
Perhaps the most unfortunate misconception about
Nazi economics is to think that, because the facade
of capitalism has been retained, there has been no
real change in the structure itself. It is true that often
the same owners are in charge of a business as before
Herr Hitler became leader, that profits are made and
dividends, though limited, are paid out of them. Never-
theless, the profit motive does not operate in the new
Germany in the sense understood in Britain and other
capitalist countries. Every economic activity is strictly
controlled by the State. Industries operate only as the
State orders or permits them. All incomes, including
profits, are centrally controlled in order that the whole
economic system may be mobilised for purposes deter-
mined in advance by the central planning organisation.
Thus with Germany it is fallacious to distinguish
between the political form and the economic content
of the State. Business and nation are one. It is hardly
too much to say that an “economic collapse,” as com-
monly envisaged, was never possible in the Nazi State.
Where all economic functions are in the last resort
controlled by the Government no permanent break-
down of the mechanism need be feared ; only the ulti-
mate disaster, the fall of the standard of living below
the tolerable level, could strike the system at its root,
through a social upheaval. Germany in her foreign
trade comes before her customers as one great com-
mercial company, and the State acts in effect as the
sole exporter and importer.
Here, indeed, lies Germany’s chief strength in the
campaigns that are to come, and it is a curious reflec-
tion that this and most other elements in her new
technique of foreign trading are the fruit of adversity
and the struggle to rearm. Had there been no shortage
of raw materials or of currency to pay for them Ger-
many might never have devised her barter arrange-
ments. In her technical resources, too, Germany has
gained much from the mobilisation of her industrial
system for rearmament. If a quantitative standard is
taken the aggregate of her technical resources is greater
than at any time in her history. Her labor resources
also have been immensely strengthened by the huge
scale on which rearmament and public works have
been conceived and effected. The number put to work
since 1932 exceeds 7,000,000. The success of her
public works system is not to be measured alone by
the boast that soon some 2000 miles of roads and 2500
bridges will have been built; it means also that large
numbers of workers will have learnt or regained their
manual skill and that they will be available, if oppor-
tunity should arise, for work in other directions.
To cope with the requirements of the rearmament
programme the heavy industries have been developed
on an unprecedented scale. Steel production is now
half as large again as in 1928 and 1929 ; and in 1937,
for the first time, it exceeded the level of output (about
twice that of the United Kingdom) attained by pre-
war Germany. The development of domestic sources
of raw materials has been an even more dominant
objective, iron-ore production is already half as high
again as the peak recorded in the nineteen-twenties ;
and when the Hermann Goring works are in full
blast it may surpass the pre-war record of 28,600,000
tons, achieved when Lorraine belonged to the Reich.
The quest for self-sufficiency has also developed
and increased the speed of normal achievement in
many of the industries which are still to some extent
in the experimental stages. Germany has been some-
thing of a pioneer in, for example, synthetic petrol,
plastics, aluminium and magnesium alloys, by-products
of coking plants and the extension of industrial gas-
grids and synthetic rubber. The strength of her indus-
trial resources and her ability and willingness to mobi-
lise them to the full for any national purpose provide
the foundation upon which great achievements may
be based.
Such is the nation standing, as will be hoped, on
the threshold of a new career of peaceful foreign com-
merce. It is not difficult to foresee what forms her
economic expansion will take. She has indeed no
money to invest abroad, but she has skilled labor,
technical knowledge and the unified control that can
conceive vast plans and carry them out. Above all,
she has the kind of harsh experience which enables
her whole people to face difficult tasks with enthusi-
asm and discipline, conscious of “equal hope and
hazard” in every enterprise. Her ploughshares, beaten
from swords, will be no less formidable.
Review of Britain’s Navy.
[Lt.-Commander Hugh Longden, in the article here
condensed from London “Daily Mail” (1/12/’3B),
touches instructively on one of the many reasons why
the most aggressive of nations will still think deeply
before attacking a nation so well equipped and now
daily improving its defences.]
The United States is taking steps to become the
mistress of the seas, and is already mistress of the
Pacific, but Great Britain is still mistress of the other
six seas.
Great Britain has 12 battleships and three battle
cruisers in commission, five battleships building (due
to be ready in 1940), and two more authorised and
about to be laid down. Thus in two years’ time we
will clearly be superior to the United States fleet in
capital ships, though they will have caught up with us
by 1942.
Starting with the future and working backwards,
we have the Lion and Temeraire, the two battleships
authorised by the 1938 programme, but not yet
ordered. They will be of 40,000 tons —slightly smaller
than the two unborn but projected American ones,
which will be of 45,000 tons and the biggest in the
world. Britain’s 40,000-ton battleships will mount
16in. guns.
Last year we laid down the five known as the
King George V. type. They consist of the King
George V., the Prince of Wales, Anson, Jellicoe and
Beatty, which will be 35,000-tonners mounted with
Min. guns and 21in. torpedo tubes, and will carry
aircraft. It is officially stated that “their anti-aircraft
armament will be extensive.”
Then we come to the latest battleships in com-
mission, the Nelson and Rodney, twins, both just
under 34,000 tons. These are, of course, the most
powerful battleships in the world; they each cost
£7,500,000 to build, and the annual cost of their main-
tenance in full commission is approximately £350,000.
They are the only ships in any navy with torpedo
tubes of more than 21 in. The range of their guns is
sea miles, and the cost of firing one triple salvo
is £7OO.
Next in order of seniority we come to our three
battle cruisers, the Hood, Renown and Repulse, of
which the latest is the Hood, completed in 1920 —the
most powerful battle cruiser in the world. She was
built under the War Emergency programme at a cost
of £6,000,000, or £145 per ton, as she is 42,000 tons.
The Renown and Repulse are smaller, 32,000 tons.
Next are the five Royal Sovereign class, the
Ramillies, Royal Sovereign, Royal Oak, Revenge and


82891
nyijx
TRY A DERBY TOP THIS SUMMER.
Probably different from the type you already wear, but extremely smart and
comfortable. Special imported single soles of heavy Continental sole leather.
Stocked in full and half sizes in Black or Brown Calf. Price 37/6
AVrite for a Catalogue.
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND • . 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Resolution, completed in 1916-17. Finally we have the
five good old ships of the Queen Elizabeth class—of
Jutland fame—the Queen Elizabeth, Malaya, Valiant,
Barham and Warspite. They all carry four aircraft,
with catapults, except Barham, which carries one. They
have been considerably altered and modernised.
We have five aircraft-carriers in commission, in-
cluding the Ark Royal (just finished), and five build-
ing, including the Implacable (just ordered). The new
ones will be 23,000 tons—slightly bigger than the
Glorious and Courageous —and they will each carry
about 50 ’planes.
As for cruisers, we have 15 mounting Bin. guns,
and 45 mounting 6in. guns, as well as 14 building and
seven ordered. Of destroyers we have 157 and
32 building (most of which will be ready late next
year). Lastly we have 52 submarines and 12 building,
and eight M.T.Bs. and 24 building.
Italians in Abyssinia.
(Condensed Irani an article by a London “Times”
correspondent lately in Abyssinia.)
Taking into account the vastness of the territory
—five times as large as Italy —a high standard of public
security has been reached. The present writer recently
motored over 4000 miles in Italian East Africa and
only on one occasion—and that for half an hour—
was it thought necessary for the car to join a motor
column accompanied by a lorry mounting a machine-
gun. The officer in command remarked that he had
been chaperoning that column for eight months and
had never had any trouble. British officials on the
Sudan and Kenya frontiers report a welcome cessation
of raids for cattle and slaves
One of the first difficulties of the Italian Govern-
ment was to get men to administer the new Empire.
On the whole the most successful have been officers
of the regular army who had served with native troops.
At present all the Governors of the five provinces,
with the exception of those in Somalia and Addis
Ababa, are generals who have served in Libya.
Every Resident and Vice-Resident has under him
native chiefs who are responsible for order in their
villages ; so far as they do not conflict with civilised
standards every effort is made not to interfere with
local customs. For the natives “going to law” is both
an intellectual entertainment and a sporting event.
Nearly all the cases concern the possession of a piece
of land which both sides will claim has been in the
family since the days of the Queen of Sheba. Often
it would need the wisdom of a Solomon to disentangle
the statements of the witnesses, who generally base
their evidence on what their grandfather’s grandfathers
are reported to have said. One wearied commissioner
spent many hot day listening to long speeches by the
disputants, their advocates and witnesses, and finally
gave his verdict. The next morning he was told the
loser wished to see him. Far from being crestfallen
the man remarked cheerfully, “You know I had a
very bad advocate, but I want to thank you all the
same ; I had a very good run for my money.”
At least half of all conversations in Abyssinnia
turn on the roads, finished, half-finished or lacking.
The terrain presents every natural obstacle from moun-
tains thousands of feet high to plains flooded in season.
Those who knew the miserable bridle-paths before the
war or drove over the hastily constructed military
tracks will regard what has been accomplished with
deep respect.
With the exception of Massawa, nearly 1000 miles
from Addis Ababa, no natural harbor is to be found
along the whole coastline on the Red Sea or on the
Indian Ocean. Docks capable of berthing 10,000-ton
steamers are being constructed at Assab to be ready
in 1940. The question of railways is hardly yet in the
realm of practical politics. It may be settled eventu-
ally by the local mineral resources. If steam coal
were found it would encourage the building of rail-
ways ; if petrol were found, the decision would prob-
ably be for roads only.
The popular exuberance which followed the con-
quest of the Empire, and the uninformed statements
which represented it as an immediate outlet for thou-
sands of colonists, are things of the past. Time must
elapse before large numbers of emigrants can enter
the country. At present experiments are being con-
ducted at the agricultural centres near the provincial
capitals to ascertain the types of crops and vegetables
suited to the soil and the climate at different altitudes
and promising prosperity to future farmers. Every
effort, too, is being made to induce the natives to
improve their primitive methods of cultivation and to
grow more grain in order to reduce the large quantity
which has to be imported to feed the 250,000 resident
Italians. Cattle have always represented the chief
wealth of the country, hides being one of the most
important exports. In some districts the stock is very
poor, and in all districts totally uncared for ; veterinary
surgeons are trying to stamp out disease and to teach
the elements of stpck breeding.
Three types of colonisation are planned. The
first is demographic, in which chosen families from
the same districts in Italy will be settled in newly-built
villages. Three advance parties of about 100 men
each have already arrived and are clearing the ground
and building houses. The second type is industrial,
concessions being given to firms or individuals capable
of supplying the necessary capital. The third type
may be described as “individual,” small grants of
land suitable for market gardening being made to
soldiers and road-makers who ask to be demobilised
in the country and who have the necessary experi-
ence. Two flourishing colonies of ex-service men
already exist near Addis Ababa.
The present watchword is “patience.” Nowhere
was the news of the Anglo-Italian agreement received
with more pleasure than in Italian East Africa, not
merely because it is expected to bring an increase of
trade with the Sudan but because it is clearly realised
that the development of the Empire depends on a long
period of peace in Europe.
Winter Comes to Spain. ,
[So badly has Spain’s Civil War been reported in
cables all along that a clearer insight into the real posi-
tion is provided by this descriptive fragment than in
whole columns of the views nowadays served up as
news. The item is by London “Times” Hendaye corre-
spondent.]
• Snow is falling on the Spanish mountains. The
nation stands on the threshold of the third consecutive
winter of warfare.- Bitter winds that sweep over
Aragon and Castile —an enemy more relentless perhaps
and more feared than most modern instruments of
war—are gathering strength. They bring back mem-
ories of last year’s cruel struggle for Teruel, of agonies
that must be repeated. Troops that struggled naked
to the waist over the sun-scorched hills around
Gandesa are now huddled into rugs and greatcoats.
While Nationalist bombers are keeping the Repub-
licans guessing by bombing first one region and then
another, the Spanish countryside is the scene of great
military activity. Troop trains and supply convoys
are on the move. Much reorganisation has proved
necessary since the Nationalists carried the great
struggle on the banks of the Ebro to a successful con-
clusion. The old army in the north has been split into
two parts, the army of Catalonia and the army of the
Levante. The former will hold the front from the
Pyrenees to the Ebro delta. The latter will operate in
Southern Aragon and Valencia.
It is not in the higher commands thatTeorganisa-
tion has proved necessary. The divisions, battalions
and companies which were hurled into the Ebro in-
ferno have returned for reorganisation. These victori-
ous units must be rested and reinforced. The work
is proceeding apace.
The Nationalists, convinced that the privations of
the winter must fall with terrible effect on the war-
weary populations in Madrid and Barcelona and sap
their strength, are facing the future with unusual
optimism. The civilian population have deprived them-
selves of virtually all manufactured textiles for the
benefit of those fighting at the front. The fact that
a certain measure of rationing has been introduced and ,
that tinned foods are gradually being withdrawn from
the market is interpreted as an indication that the •
Nationalists expect soon to be feeding a greatly-
increased number of mouths. It is said that in one
village near the Madrid front there has been stored
enough food to supply the whole Spanish capital for
two weeks. Similar stores are being concentrated on
other fronts.
Communist Arrogance.
[The two letters here condensed from Manchester
“Guardian” are representative of a good deal of strong
feeling on similar lines, though aimed at different objects,
now being given expression in the English press. The
specific object in this case is to reply to one Ivor
Montagu, who had set up the now somewhat hackneyed
bellow of “Fascists!” over the proposal that London's
Old Vic. players should tour in Italy. Whatever system
Mr. McEwen has for selecting Australia’s pending
import of 15,000 European Jews, it will be very much to
the good if it operates to exclude the Montagu variety.]
If it is excellent to confirm and increase cultural
relations with one ruthless dictatorship, Russia, why
is it abominable to confirm and increase them with
another ruthless dictatorship, Italy? Mr. Montagu
believes that the proposed visit of English actors to
Italy will “lead to more dead Spaniards and a bigger
chance of dead liberty.” Very well. Does he then
agree that a visit of English players or theatrical
enthusiasts to the Moscow Drama Festival condones
Soviet policy, means more dead Russians, if any still
dare to have a mind of their own, and liberty in that
quarter even deader than it is?
This country is still a fairly tolerant democracy
whose citizens can choose for themselves and do not
have all their movements and decisions dictated by
commissars. Why should Mr. Montagu and the
culture-sanctionists be so eager to put them out of a
job? This discussion actually began with the mon-
strous suggestion that playgoers should boycott the
Old Vic. —that is, bankrupt it and cause distress and
even ruin to all connected with it, so that outsiders
might dictate its policy and use it as an implement of
their bellicose brand of pacifism. The callousness of
this plan is not altogether surprising. On a recent
night in the House of Commons a quorum could
scarcely be raised to discuss our own distressed areas.
No doubt our Left-wing patriots were all busy making
speeches about the honor of England, now so dear
to the Communist party, and forgetting about that
simpler matter, its hunger.
Mr. Montagu has gone out of his way to pro-
claim himself a Communist Jew. I suggest that he is
doing neither Communism nor Jewry much service by
this attitude to the people of his adopted (and still
tolerant) country. Culture-sanctionism (like com-
merce-sanctionism) is an easy way of virtue. Its high-
minded advocates sit back and tell other people to
lose their job or their trade. But all those who have
written to me privately make it evident that far more
people than I had imagined are getting tired of the
spitfire pacifism of which we have had such a dose in
this unhappy year.— lvor Brown (the playwright and
dramatic critic).
*****
The discussion discloses, above all, Mr. Montagu’s
Communist intolerance, the poison which has vitiated
European relationships for several years past. It is
this arrogance of the extreme Left that has excited,
provoked and let loose the violent Fascist elements
which have now overwhelmed about three-quarters of
the countries of Europe —from the Polish border to
the French frontiers —and it is not certain at the
moment that France will be capable of withstanding
the deluge.
Mr. Montagu ought to realise by this time the
result of the challenge of his Marxist doctrine to the
democracies of Europe. Although the vast majority
of the peoples of European countries dislike both
Fascism and Communism, it is fairly obvious that
they have reluctantly come to the conclusion that the
only answer to Communist intolerance is nationalist
Fascism. Let us hope that the people of our own
country will not be called upon to make such a foul
decision, in spite of Mr. Montagu’s provocation.
Extremes always beget extremes. Russian Com-
munism is the answer to the cruelties of Tsardom,
and Italian Fascism and German Nazism are the
illegitimate children of that Communism. There would
be no anti-Comintern in the world were it not for the
existence of the Comintern in the first instance, and
there would probably never have been a Herr Hitler
were it not for some Ivor Montagu.— Rhys J. Davies
(M.P.; Labor).


ft
KING THE ROAD'
SJfffiß
SPORTING
Under the Whip
Bradford, favorite for the Villiers at
Randwick (at 6 to 4, after 9 to 4 had been
laid), was beaten, but beaten very un-
luckily. Putting in a wonderful run from
opposite the Leger stand, he gained on the
leader, Fakenham, with every stride. To
people in the Leger and the public stand in
the paddock his final effort seemed to
have landed him the winner by a neck at
least. But the favorite was on the out-
side, the angle is deceptive, and the
judge rightly gave it to Fakenham by a
head. Then thousands of disappointed
Bradford backers hotly declared that the
jockey, O’Sullivan, had thrown the race
away.
O’Sullivan, it is explained, rode to in-
structions. If so, the instructions were
too rigid, and the boy obeyed them too
dutifully. On the other hand, McMena-
min made full use of an advantage he
gained for Fakenham at the start. He
drew the whip, and, thus urged, his
mount paced it with Early Bird to the
home turn. There the filly had had
enough, and Fakenham bounded away;
he was so far ahead of Bradford, who
had to be pulled to the outside, that it
was really remarkable that the Newcastle
horse should have so nearly caught him
at the end of a mile run in Imin. 36sec.
—“every furlong in twelve.” Geebung was
third, two lengths away, Jan Baz fourth,
Delmestor fifth and Perimond sixth.
Fakenham started at 7 to 2; some
backers got sevens. His showing was a
great improvement on his sixth in the
Dundas Handicap at Rosehill, where Del-
mestor and Let Slip beat him “out of
sight,” and some people didn’t forget to
mention it. Fakenham is owned by a
Barraba pastoralist, C. P. Wilson, and is
trained at Randwick by E. D. Lawson,
who won the Villiers with Bachian in
1934. Fakenham has done duty as a
hack, and less than 12 months ago he was
regarded as a hopeless proposition for
racing. He has been in training for five
months, and his condition was a credit
to Lawson. When prepared by Fred Wil-
liams the Magpie gelding won two small
races. He has won four good ones for
Lawson.
Beau Mari, who carries the colors of
W. S. Glenn, a name familiar in Maori-
land football circles, is a smart son
of Beau Pere-Betrothed, though not
as good as stablemate Esperanto.
He was backed with confidence for
the December Nursery—from 5 to
2 to 5 to 4—and, though he missed
the jump, he had sufficient pace
to be in the lead at the end of the first
furlong. Even there it was all over, and,
going easily for Bartle, Glenn’s colt won
by lengths from Bel Oiseau and Figurine.
Grand Billy and Crosspatch threw their
riders and delayed the start; Grand Billy,
though called a starter, took no part in
the race, which was rough on his backers.
Beau Mari ran the “five” in a fraction
over the minute, and could have cut it
had he been pushed.
Each division of the Novice Handicap
produced a finish complimentary to the
handicapper, G. F. Wilson. In the first
division Desert King (10 to 1), flat out,
beat Tartanus by half a head and John
Laird by another length ; in the second,
Trimmer, who cost 45 guineas as a year-
ling, showed plenty of pace and determi-
nation in winning from High Dividend
and Rudyard. A three-year-old by Pen-
theusr-Little Mutt, he was favorite at
3 to 1.
Mildura (Manfred-Miss Meadows) gave
promise as a two-year-old, and is justify-
ing it at three years. A.J.C. committee-
man E. J. Watt’s colt had an easy success
in the Highweight Handicap, for which
he was second favorite at 3 to 1. He is
trained by Price, and a stablemate,
Troy (7 to 1), was second, Bradford’s
brother Leeds being third. Favorite was
Aladdin. He essayed to lead throughout,
but he was in trouble a furlong, from
home and missed a place. He looked in
need of the race.
In the past Holiday Handicap run-
ning has often thrown light on the
Summer Cup race, but Sedunum, winner
of the Holiday Handicap on Saturday,
wasn’t in the Summer Cup, though
Battye, who trains him at Warwick Farm,
has him in Tattersall’s dub Cup.
Young Crusader made the running, not
too fast, and that suited Sedunum, who
wore the 1936 Metrop. horse down from
the top of the straight. Red Sails was a
fair third, Cannoli, from Queensland, an
interesting fourth, and Bristol fifth.
Bristol was favorite; Sedunum’s price
unaccountably eased from 9 to 2 to sixes.
Young Crusader is not exactly a big
horse, and his last three seasons on the
turf have severely tested his stamina and
courage, since, in a long series of dis-
tance races, Tie has been called upon to
make his own running. But he has rarely
looked better than when he came out to
do his preliminary for the Summer Cup,
and he made a most gallant attempt to
carry it off for the second successive
year. Red Sails was second most of the
way, and a furlong from home the black
had passed the chestnut, who is two years
older. Young Crusader came again, and
actually got his head in front; but he
faltered, and was beaten by half a
length. The outsider Bringa was a good
third.
Bristol (9 to 4) and Young Crusader
(4 to 1) were the favorites; Red Sails
went out at 7 to 1. Bristol doesn’t seem
to thrive on racing, and he never threat-
ened danger. Cannoli would have done
better had he had a month in Sydney in-
stead of being rushed down from the
north —he left Brisbane on December 18.
Unafraid failed to stay.
Red Sails is a four-year-old stallion by
Pantheon-Sweet Land, trained by Joe
Cook for James Carr. He was ridden
by Duncan, who had a very profitable
day, being on two other winners—Bonnie
L. (5 to 1) in the Wilton Park Handicap
and Eastern Maid (20 to 1) in the Chis-
holm Handicap. For the latter race Bon-
heur de Pere was at even money in a
field of eleven. She finished second-last.
The first day at Rantiwick was in favor
of those who backed favorites, but on
the second day the Ring won on every
race—and there were seven races. Cer-
tainly, Esperanto, one of the favorites,
won the December Stakes, but the bet-
ting on that race was 3 to 1 Esperanto
and Waireka, 7 to 2 Beau Mari (Esper-
anto’s stable-companion), 4 to 1 Reading
and Bonny Loch (second). A bookmaker
who couldn’t show a profit on such prices
ought to hand in his bag.
On December 14 The Bulletin said
it liked Bradford for the Villiers and
Red Sails for the Summer Cup; and
that should have been the winning
double. Unfortunately, Bristol in the
meantime showed one of his deceptive
glimpses of form, and in consequence
Red Sails was here placed second to him
for the Summer Cup. Sometimes this
Page wishes Bristol had never been
foaled.
* * * *
With no racing in Melbourne last
Wednesday, the meeting at Cranbourne,
within easy reach of the city by train
and motor, received good patronage.
Except in one instance, fields were of
excellent size.
Hardwood, who captured the Cran-
bourne Spring Handicap at fours, easily
accounted for Bustard and Great Legend.
He ran nine furlongs and 132 yards in
2min., which is a record for the course.
Beau Ham, who whipped-in the field, was
favorite. He belongs to H. Mitchener, a
Flinders-lane businessman.
Frank Manning was foiled in his efforts
to win a big race with Aitchengee in the
spring, and his luck has not been at all
good since then ; but Star Leaf brought
some grist to the mill by annexing the
Welter Handicap at the nice price of
5 to 1.
Compensation due to the owners of
courses that were delicensed in Mel-
bourne years ago has been reduced so
slowly that Saturday meetings have been
set apart this season to speed up liquida-
tion and get rid of an interest burden.
First of these Saturday fixtures was held
at Williamstown on Christmas Eve. An-
other is scheduled for January 7 at
Moonee Valley. There was an excellent
attendance at the seaside course. Only
one first favorite won, but punters came
out on top, as the remaining five winners
met with heavy support
Percy Padfield, who prepared Sir Prim
for a Grand National Steeple success in
1919, landed the Trial Hurdle with
Stylist, a brother to the dual Australian
Hurdle winner Dress Suit. Backed from
Ives to threes this gelding vanquished
:he 6-to-4 pop Erua by half a neck.
Erua and Stylist took the final obstacle
oractically on terms. Realising that the
iisposition of Erua to hang out might
eriously hamper his own mount, Maher
mlled Stylist over to the rails. In the
un home he outrode Fullarton. Not
>ften does Fullarton come out second-
best in a battle of tactics.
In the race won by his stable-com-
panion, Maid of Athens, at Mdonee
Valley on the previous Monday such
great promise was shown by Cairnsmore
(Melfort-Headgale) in finishing second
that punters did not look farther for the
winner of the Two-year-old Handicap at
Williamstown. Death-knock quote was
11 to 4.
Taking control early, Cairnsmore
scored in fine style from Sir Romeo and
Captain Kettle. Last-named belongs to
V.R.C. chairman Alan Currie, who paid
900gns. for him as a yearling. Captain
Kettle (Madagascar-Contempt) is a
half-brother to High Disdain, the horse
that did such good service for “Grafter”
Kingsley on Sydney courses.
Cairnsmore is raced by P. B. Quinlan
in conjunction with the N.S.W. sports-
man, F. N. F. Lansdowne. He cost
650gns. at the Easter sales in Sydney, and
promises to be more profitable than Fort
Regal, who carries the same colors. Oh
his juvenile form Fort Regal was re-
garded as a formidable Derby contender,
but he went to pieces, and has been
gelded.
Ashley Reed did not derive much
pleasure from piloting Cairnsmore to
victory. Called before the stipes Ashley
was suspended for a month for forcing
Divinity across two other horses at the
half-mile. Reed had just completed a
post-spring holiday. Now he is taking
an enforced vacation.
Swettenham was closely pressed by
Marianne in the Maiden Plate wagering,
their respective quotes being 7 to 2 and
fours. So far Swettenham hasn’t done
much to justify his relationship with
Panto. In an even struggle Marianne
beat him by a length.
W. R. Kemtall, the M.L. sportsman,
has a big string of horses, and did not
win out of his turn with National in the
Three-year-old Handicap. At fives,
National was in a point less demand than
Sir Harold and Mukama. The burden
of nearly lOst. anchored Sir Harold. His
co-favorite lost ten lengths at the start,
but made up a lot of ground, and mustn’t
be condemned.
National was little troubled to beat two
fast-finishing outsiders, David Spear
and Kingswear. He is by Siegfried, sire
of Wotan.
R. P. Trihey, owner of Regular
Bachelor, won the Fund Handicap with
Beaustone, whose sister, Waltzing Nellie,
was successful in the V.A.T.C. Debutant
Stakes of 1933. Equal in demand with
Mutable at fours, Beaustone defeated
Elmdale, the original favorite, by a head.
Elliot’s turn to catch the judge’s eye
did not come until the last race, the
Welter Handicap, which he won on Fear-
nought (fives) from Ogwell (20 to 1) and
Dueladder. The result disclosed that
Ogwell is no back number. Ogwell was
retired to the stud, but has been put into
training afresh.
Demotic has taken a long time to
strike form, but Caulfield saw him at his
top. Favorite —at 9to 2 —for the Hope-
toun Handicap, the old Burrabadeen
gelding trailed Jakin most of the way,
and took charge in the straight. There
nothing gave him any trouble, but
Avenger might have been dangerous had
his mind been set on racing instead of
biting pieces out of Donaster. In the
circumstances, Donaster beat Avenger
for second place, Jakin being fourth.
In the Chdsterfield Handicap at Ascot
on Dec. 17, Finch and Evening Mist
came down. It was then thought that if
they had stood up one or other would
have defeated Baryta, the winner. In
this faith, a multitude of trusting punters
backed Evening Mist (9 to 4) to beat
Baryta (3 to 1) in the Malvern Handicap
at Caulfield ; but the mare could only get
third. Baryta (3 to 1) proved much too
fast for Evening Mist and Monford
(second).
Finch, also seemingly none the worse
for her fall at Ascot, was a starter in the
Christmas Handicap at Caulfield. Not
greatly fancied, she was beaten into third
place by Aurie’s Star (2 to 1) and Ami-
able (3 to 1). Patrons of the S.A. bet-
ting shops who have followed Aurie’s
Star at Caulfield must be a bit ahead
of it —for the time being.
FOR RANDWICK.
Carrington Stakes: Gold Rod ;
next, Eastern Maid.
Maiden Handicap: Toy Time ;
next, Klimop.
Pace Welter: Mildura or Alad-
din ; next, Beau Ercil.
Denman Handicap: Sedunum ;
next, Highborn.
Tatt.’s Club Cup: Sedunum, 1 ;
Red Sails, 2 ; Young Crusader, 3.
Mildura (New Year’s Gift and
Alfred Hill Handicap) and Publicity
(Flying Welter) may be worth tot-
ing on Monday.
FOR MENTONE.
Sorrento Handicap: Finch ; next,
Coronation Day.
Summer Handicap: Elmdale;
next, Windmar.
Talgarno Welter: Fearnought;
next, Fancifort
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Standish: Aurie’s Star; next,
Amiable.
Bagot: Avenger ; next, Donaster.
Welter: Evening Mist; next,
Panax.


Sheffield Shield Cricket
QUEENSLAND v. N.S.W.
N.S.W. Cricket Ground, December 31, January 2, 3 and 4, 1939.
Play commences 11.30 a.m.
ADMISSION: Outer Ground—Adults, 1/6; Children, 6d. Grandstand —Adults, 2/6; Children, 1/-
Half-prioe to all parts after 4 p.m.
H. HEYDOX. Secretary, N.S.W. Cricket Association. 255 a George Street, Sydney.
V-.
a®
m
Since
1765
The foundation of the House of Hennessy's
has a romantic rather than a businesslike
setting. Richard Hennessy, a wounded
soldier of the "Irish Brigade," stationed in
Cognac in 1765, finding the local product to
his liking, saw the possibilities of a great
enterprise.
Adopting France as his country, and Cognac
as his home, he started an industry that has
passed in sequence through six generations
of the Hennessy family. The result of 174
years of unceasing activity to give the world
the purest and most delightful brandy is
adequately expressed in Hennessy's to-day.
Obtainable everywhere in Bottles, Half
Bottles, Quarter Bottles, and Eighth Bottles
Joint Sole Agents for N.S.W.
GOLLIN AND COMPANY PTY. LTD.,
HARBOTTLE BROWN AND CO. PTY. LTD.
ENNESSY’S
•cr ☆ ☆
BRANDY
M.Q. and Rafferty
Henneberry to Meet Richards
Can Fred Henneberry regain the
middleweight championship from Ron
Richards? They have been matched for
a Sydney Sports Ground contest ; un-
fortunately, Richards will be out of
action until a broken finger mends.
Henneberry is in fine form, but he has
lost his last two Stadium bouts on fouls.
He fights with head forward and chin
in; he is almost continuously on the
aggressive, boring in for the infighting at
which he’s an adept. So a head bump is
always on the cards.
Fred is an unaccountably slow beginner
tor these days of short engagements ; he’s
really a natural 20-round scrapper, a
generation after his proper time. Against
Woods, a fine, cool boxer, a solid trades-
man, he opened even more leisurely
than usual, content with making Woods’s
right miss by head shifts of a fraction of
an inch, but unable to prevent the Ameri-
can calmly picking him off with light
straight lefts.
Evidently aware that he had a lot of
leeway to make up and intent on making
it, Henneberry charged at Woods in the
ninth round. There was a crack of skulls ;
Woods drew himself stLilly erect and
moved back ; a red streak appeared on
his forehead slightly on the right side of
centre; and Joe Wallis instantly gave
him the decision.
Richards Trounces the Kid
If ever the Alabama Kid was knocked
out it must have been by somebody
getting a very lucky one square home
on his jaw with an axe. Ron Richards
couldn’t do it with rights that turned
the Kid completely round, knocked him
two or three yards backwards across the
Sydney Sports Ground ring, or looked
like lifting his head up to the overhead
lights. Though at list. 81b. Ron was
giving away half a stone, he handed out
the heaviest and the worst trouncing any
of the visiting American battalion has
taken, and among them they’ve taken
plenty. At the end of it the Australian
champion was unmarked, but tired from
hitting ; his right hand must have felt
the size of a dozen.
Despite that, it was so far from being
a walkover that it had the big open-
air crowd keyed up from go to whoa.
The Kid would take a right uppercut
or a right cross that should have
crumpled him to the boards,, and it
would be only an incentive to him to
fight back stronger than ever. He won
the merely sparring opening round ; then,
though fighting strongly all the way, he
didn’t win another till the eighth, in
which, as in the half-dozen before it,
he stopped repeated heavy uppercuts and
crosses as weighty and cleanly driven as
even Richards has ever let loose. Yet
the Kid won that eighth by sheer fighting
spirit, had looked dangerous in every
round up to it—never more so than
when a roof-lifting uppercut could do no
worse than rock him—and continued to
look dangerous to the end, though he
never won another round and was more
and more heavily punished as it went on.
The Kid’s performance was all the
more remarkable because Richards is
now punching harder apd generally fight-
ing better than ever before. In this
affray Ron once or twice exercised more
caution than a champion has any right
to. In the fifth, especially, he had the
Kid out on his feet to a heavy left hook
and right cross. Instead of going in, Ron
allowed himself to be held at arm’s
length by the southpaw’s extended right
—an exhibition of languidness the Aus-
tralian champ, often displays. If he
wasn’t just now so much in a class by
himself he’d pay heavily for it.
That apart, Richards fought beauti-
fully. The Kid is of the rushing, two-
handed-battery brand of scrappers, so
the Australian did a good bit of his
scrapping while forced against the ropes.
There, to those privileged to be close
enough to see it, his work was something
pretty to look at. By sheer weight of
hitting the Kid sometimes broke his
defences, but mostly Ron, by the alert-
ness of his lightning-quick movements,
was safer in there, when he looked to be
taking it, than when out in mid-ring
trying to move to close quarters in past
the Kid’s projected right. Hard against
the ropes, he’d let the Kid unloose his
terrific two-handed stuff, blocking it or
nullifying it by imperceptible rapid
shifts ; then, when he looked to be
crowded into an impossible position for
any hitting, one of his uppercuts would
rip up into the Kid’s forward-bent
face, and in the hitting room made by
that jolt there’d be a left rip to the body,
a hook to the side of the head, or a
peach of a cross driving the Kid back to
the defensive.
It was beautiful fighting ; the engage-
ment as a whole a rugged and vigorous
battle, lightened by as pretty a display
on Ron’s part of the right uppercut as
anyone could hope to set eyes on.
Ins and Outs
Facing the mammoth tally of 600 for 8
at Adelaide, N.S.W. did well to amass
390. Heroes of the innings were Barnes
(117) and the evergreen Chipperfield, who
specialises in these surprises —his contri-
bution was 154. None of the others did
much; Grandpa Grimmett (7-116)
wouldn’t let ’em. But Ma’s second shot
yielded only 155 (James 42 ; Grimmett
4-59), so South Australia won by an
innings and 55 runs. Eleven wickets for
Grimmett: not bad for a light of other
days too far past his game to be given
a chance with the last Australian XI.
* * * *
Victoria beat Queensland by three
wickets ten minutes before time. That
is something like cricket. A hundred and
ninety-two behind, the Bananalanders
made a great start in their second knock,
Brown (99) and Rogers (104) hoisting
181 before Brown went. Allen obliged
with 136 and two were out for 250. A
short and lively 19 by Tallon was fol-
lowed by scores of 58 (Cook), 51 n.o.
(Baker) and 23 n.o. by Guttormsen. This
made the visitors’ score 510 for 5, at
which Brown closed, hoping to get rid
of the opposition and win outright. It
was a sporting attempt of a kind too
seldom seen in our big matches to-day.
Rigg (49) and Lee (34) gave their side a
good start, and then reasonably fast
scoring by Gregory (77) and Hassett (73)
decided it; 7 for 322. .Fast-bowler Dixon
snared 4-67 for Queensland.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Uneasy lies the head that
wears a crown, and Don Bradman, King
of Cricket, is finding that so. Since he
came into fame as a cricketer he has been
offered, and mostly discarded, half a
dozen big jobs. When he joined a firm
of Adelaide brokers, we all thought him
set for life. Now it is announced that
he is applying for the £lOOO-a-year sec-
retaryship of the Melbourne C.C., which
he is by no means certain of getting,
Bradman should wait a bit. In a short
time Australia will be wanting a new
Prime Minister, and hd might do worse
than have a prod at that. There is one
thing about him —he does things.
* * * *
“Aunt Sally”: A frightful lot of bosh
is being spoken and printed about the
horrible effect the captaincy of Don
Bradman has upon his batting and will
have in the near future. There have been
temperamental captains. The worst I
ever saw was Jack Blackham, when his
side was in a losing possie. But the aver-
age leader in big cricket suffers little by
reason of his job. For one thing he hasn’t
imagination.
* * * *
“White Waters”: The English cricketers
struck a snag when they met the Southern
Transvaal at Klerksdorp, being forced
to a draw. Batting first, the locals ran
to 428 for eight wickets before closing
(Mitchell 133, Viljoen 97, Langton 58
and Briscoe 42 ; Fames 4-93 and Wilkin-
son 4-78). Hutton’s Yorkshire head was
not proof against a bumper from Davies,
a fast bowler who did little in games
against Australian teams ; Hutton retired
and England was all out for 268 (Ames
109 ; Davies 6-82). The home side had
run to 174 for two before it petered out.
The Afrikander team for the first Test
provided no surprises, though the unusual
notice was issued that eight of the eleven
would play in the second game at Cape
Town.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The death of Harry Moses
calls up many memories. Some 55 years
back he was a mere stonewaller, Jack
Lyons a mere slogger. Then the one
learned to attack, while the other learned
some defence —though each remained
true to his general principle; and it
might be difficult to say which was the
more useful to Australia. At home, that
is; Lyons finally established his fame
at Lord’s, but Moses would never go to
England, as he should have done three
or four times in the frequent trips—
every second year —then prevailing. I
ventured to ask him why, long after-
wards, at lunch with President Teece at
the Sydney Cricket Ground, about 1922.
“Well,” he said, “my wife didn’t want
me to go ; and my firm didn’t want me
to go ; and, on the whole, do you think
I was wrong?” And, looking at his suc-
cessful business career, and at the public
help which many of his less-thoughtful
contemporaries had to ask for in their
old age, one could only think that he
was right.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Cremin and Von
Nida have departed for Manila, where
Von hopes to retain the open champion-
ship of the Philippines won last year.
The pair have now determined to play
in the M.L. championships, and then
go on to Britain for the Open. After
that a tour of American courses, if all
goes well.
On their way to Manila Cremin and
Von Nida played two Brisbane men for
£25 a side and took a horrible hiding,
8 and 7. Cremin is national professional
champion and Von Nida is rated the
finest professional player in Australia.
Their conquerors, Walker and Anderson,
are just two Queensland professionals,
but their putting was marvellous.
# * # *
“Hoylake”: R. A. Whitcombe has
brought balm to the hearts of many
suffering golfers in his book Golf’s No
Mystery, just published. He routs out
a score of fetishes which have made the
existence of the average mug on the
links a day of humiliation. Golf is a
natural game, he says, and the player
should forget all the bosh that has been
written about it and play it in a natural
way. Whitcombe is keen on physical
jerks and deep breathing ; “Breathe your
way to scratch,” he writes. Certainly a
series of deep-breathing exercises after
a lunch of Gorgonzola and onions should
clear the way to anything.
* * * *
“Divot: Digger”: Conditions for the
annual N.S.W. golf tourney for members
of the A.I.F. have been altered again.
Last year the affair was spread over three
days, with the result that little interest
was shown ; now there.is to be a return
to the old one-day method, and the affair
will be held at Manly on February 15.
It will be conducted against par, with
players hitting off in batches of four. To
relieve the expected congestion 5.45 a.m.
will be the zero hour for the first quartet,
and volunteers for the earlier hop-overs
are earnestly requested. Only entries
from members of recognised golf clubs
will be accepted.
Miscellaneous.
“Splash”: N.S.W. swimmers have
come forward with a grandiose scheme
for a sort of an Olympiad in Sydney to
celebrate this country’s swimming jubilee.
The world is to be invited to send repre-
sentatives. There is not one male swim-
mer in Australia who, on Olympic and
Empire form, would have a hope with
the importations. It wasn’t so once.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Cabled that Miss Irene van
Feggelen, of Amsterdam, has set a new
world record for 200 metres backstroke
by covering the distance in this painful
fashion in the brief period of 2min. 39sec.
A shark could do it in a quarter of the
time, if report be true, and it would have
a definite biological purpose in view. But
I can’t see the significance of a human
being trying to do a thing badly that a
shark can do so well, and with no bio-
logical or artistic purpose in view. Most
sportsmen would regard rolling a peanut
up a hill with the nose and one stock-
broker pushing another from Melbourne
to Sydney as vulgarity. Some forms of
sport are complete mysteries to me.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: The Olympic Council
has hopped in early with qualifying
figures for the field events at the next
Olympic Games. As usual, they are far
below what the actual Games will re-
quire. The standard for the high jump,
for instance, is sft. 7{in. ; the Olympic
record is 6ft. 7£in. As before, the danger
is that people who haven’t Buckley’s
chance of winning at Olympia or any
other tourney of its calibre will be
shoved into the team.
* * * *
“Stand Off": The Rugby scrum trouble
which has been a problem ever since the
three-in-front formation was adopted
years ago is on the job again. Forward-
ing the films “Hooking the Ball” and
“Infringements” to the Dominions, the
British Rugby Board concludes it is im-
possible to hook the ball legally as the
present rule stands, and adds that special
legislation may be required. As one who
has played both methods in first-class
company, writer considers that all that is
necessary is to cut out the third man and
return to the old system of two in front,
under which the scrambling, congested,
penalty-earning attempts at getting the
ball back which are now the general rule
in Rugby would be wiped out at once. The
third man makes speed and cleanness in
clearing impossible. He is nothing but
an obstruction. For that reason the fast
and clean two-men method had to be
abandoned by such teams as the All-
Blacks because, if he could not get the
ball out speedily and cleanly himself, he
could jamb any efforts of the opposition
to do so.


COMING TO ENGLAND?
STAY IN THE HEART OF LONDON.
Choose wisely . . . the MAPLETON ... in
the midst of theatres and shops. 100 bed-
rooms, with bathroom and ’phone. Fully
licensed restaurant open till midnight. Special
terms for Overseas visitors. Details from
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Bachflat, Lesquare, London.
<xjl
fds
AT THE.
TIVBIILI
fds
“SNOW WHITE” in the Flesh.
(Adriana Caselotti.)
and New Oversea All Star Acts.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: Cent. 928-929.
“SWING IT”
with Larry Adler
and Big New Company of Stars.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: >16835.
Musical.
SONG-POEMS and SONGS REQUIRED for
early publication. Known or unknown writers
invited submit original MSS. —PARAMOUNT,
LTD., Dept. CD, 9 Denmark Street, London,
W.C.2.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Carefree”
Ginger Rogers, Fred Astaire, Ralph Bellamy.
And a carefree offering it is—an alto-
gether pleasant and wholly palatable
effervescence, with Fred and Ginger
bowling along in their customary light
and airy fashion and whipping up a pre-
scription to cure Sydney Regent patrons
of any Christmas hangover.
It snaps right into action with a well-
sozzled Mr. Bellamy negotiating, with
some trepidation, 18' storeys of express
elevator and seeking consultation with
Doctor Astaire. That doctor being a
psychoanalyst, Mr. Bellamy’s fiancde
being a little queer in that she can supply
no definite reason for not marrying him,
and that peculiar miss being Miss
Rogers, it’s a comfortable certainty that
doings of general interest will follow.
As they do, with Doctor Astaire pre-
scribing Gargantuan repast of chicken,
lobster, cucumber, etc., that Miss Rogers
may dream and so provide him with
something to psychoanalyse. Miss
Rogers dreams what she shouldn’t and
tells doctor what she didn’t, and he pre-
scribes what he shouldn’t. So on, while
Ginger discovers she loves Fred, which
he prescribes against until he discovers
that he loves Ginger and has the devil of
a pother undoing all his prescriptions.
A good deal of light humor is made
of Miss Rogers’s preposterous behavior
while in various stages of trance. When,
for instance, she is persuaded by means
of anaesthetic to act exactly as she pleases
her inclinations are towards anything
except a law-abiding course. It’s not so
much the situations the filmsmiths make
for her as her method of carrying them
out. She perpetrates such familiar out-
rages as cop-kicking and clearing a
sassiety country club at the point of a
double-barrelled gun deftly and with an
infectious enthusiasm.
There is nobody better suited to this
kind of fight-hearted frolic than the
Astaire-Rogers combination, and there
is nothing better suited to them.
Velly, Velly Ni.
To top off an absolutely tophole bill,
Sydney Regent has on stage Professor
Lau Fu Chung with four honorable asso-
ciates and three youngsters to assist him
in his Oriental acrobatics.
A clever troupe, their turns include an
exhibition of ball-walking and juggling
thereon, with bright humor from junior
members ; spectacular juggling with fire-
stick, and some astounding acrobatics,
displays of strength and work on the
horizontal bar.
One of the youngsters, a girl, has to
be seen to be believed. She (1) balances
base over apex above another member
of the troupe, with only a splint of pencil
thickness held between their teeth to sup-
port her; (2) stands on a light trestle
balanced on a table and doubles back-
wards to seize with her teeth a tumbler
of water about 18in. beneath the trestle ;
(3) clambers up an 18ft. bamboo
balanced on an associate’s chin and per-
forms an array of acrobatics that make
even the Indian rope-trick seem possible.
“There Goes My Heart.”
Fredric March, Virginia Bruce.
This Sydney Century item aims at the
high standard set by the best Hollywood
comedies of 1938—“ The Awful Truth,”
“Merrily We Live,” “Topper,” “Bring-
ing Up Baby” and a few others.
Miss Bruce and March, however, take
their jobs too seriously, while the yarn
has more whiskers than a barbed-wire
fence, it being the old one about the
heiress who worked incog, in a depart-
ment store and fell for a reporter who
fell for her while he was bearing all guns
on the heiress.
March is definitely a fine actor and
merits something more in keeping with
his ability.
“Edge of the World."
An English production in the genre
of “The Challenge,” this Sydney Vic-
tory support has been mentioned as even
finer than “Man of Aran.” Film tech-
nique has gone on improving at such a
rate that it’s always risky to rely on
impressions left by films seen several
years ago, but as well as memory serves
that is praising it extravagantly.
It resembles “Man of Aran” in
the beauty of its similar rugged
setting, excellence of photography,
soundness of values, impressive
quietness—good heavens, how arrest-
ing in their quietness alone these
George Formby putting the It into "It’s in the Air” and the breeze up the sarn-
major, at Sydney Lyceum.
sterling English productions are after
the shrill, piercing, raucous, blatant, bel-
lowing, cackling, crowing, bawling
Let it go at that, or we’ll be competing
with Mr. Shaw.
General resemblance to “Man of
Aran” agreed to, it relies too much on
fictional story plot to equal that natural-
istic masterpiece. In “Man of Aran”
the depiction was of the community life
of the people of that isle off the Irish
coast. How they won a rough existence
against the mostly antagonistic forces of
nature was the main business of the
film, not something incidental to it.
In “Edge of the World,” in which the
setting is a similar island off the western
Scottish coast, the life of the crofters is
merely background for the story of one
or two of their number.
The fictional plot is one of the most
among stories set in Scotland
and thereabouts —that of the stern, un-
bending father most illogically and un-
justly, with the singular mulish and
almighty sort of mean obstinacy which
in the Scots of fiction is paraded as a
virtue, holding out against the marriage
of his daughter. The number of stories
about the Scots in which the male parent
is represented as a stupid mule and a
grand mon as weel must outnumber even
Australia’s desert-gold yarns by twenty
thousand to one.
In this case the old man turns mule
after the loss of his son through a
peculiar island method of settling a dis-
pute, in which the son was the challenger
and wholly to blame. The depiction of
this event —a climbing race up a cliff
is badly done, the dice being too heavily
loaded against the loser for it to have
any dramatic value. The old man, of
course, as in all these stories, had been
represented before the event as a most
upright, churchgoing leading member of
the community. Equally in the tradi-
tion, he’s subsequently represented as
softening miraculously when he learns
that the lover he’s been responsible for
driving off the island has left behind
him a prospective mother.
The worst trouble with all of this
story is that there’s not nearly enough to
it to stand up to the emphasis it’s given.
The audience is put into two minds —is
forced to give its chief attention to the
story, and yet is asked to bear the sus-
pense patiently while the film’s makers
attend to depicting the primitive life of
the people of the setting and showing the
forces of progress, mainly in the guise
of steam trawlers, making even the bare
existence they endure no longer possible.
With the G. B. Shaw “Pygmalion” film,
however, it makes an engaging bill at
the new Sydney theatre.
“Penny Paradise”
The English makers of this Sydney
Lyceum support have another shot at
providing England’s answer to America’s
crooners, and the result is even more
lamentable than what it replies to.
It’s an ill-made picture, anyway. When
they’re in a mood for it these English
producers can turn out a marvellously
clumsy job. Their material here is pretty
good, too —a Liverpool tug skipper who
does the winning answer for a football
pool competition (apparently it’s worth
upwards of £20,000 if you bring one of
these things off), and the effects of that
on himself and those about him over the
next day or so.
Though the film isn’t up to much, it
would be spoiling it altogether for any
prospective viewer to go into further de-
tails of the plot. Enough that the skip-
per’s first reaction is to throw up his
job, but the offer of the post of skipper
on the company’s brand-new tug exer-
cises a heavier pull on him.
Material there for a great character
study, and it must be said that, so far
as the filmsmiths’ obsession with their
generally worthless rigmarole of a story
allows him, Edmund Gwenn makes a
really good job of it. He is the stocky,
good-humored skipper to perfection—a
representation as credible as it’s likeable.
If some of the immaterial rest could be
cut away so as to leave his part standing
out as both its place in the story and
his acting of it warrant the film would
be changed from a clumsily-made sup-
port to be among the fair number now
coming along that are a credit to Eng-
lish production.
Main offering on the Lyceum’s bill,
however, is a much better class English
product—in which George Formby puts
the It into “It’s in the Air.”
“The Living Marionette .”
Distributing rights in old-time Christ-
mas fare appears to have been taken over
from the theatre by the department
stores, but Sydney’s Collegium Musicum
put up a gallant five-nights’ rearguard
action at the St. James Hall sector of
the old front with this charming offering.
On the night The Bulletin looked in
the audience was composed, except for
two stray juveniles, entirely of adults. It
might have been that no special effort
was made to rope in the youngsters, or
perhaps only that the youngsters had as
much as they could absorb or time would
permit them to attend in the excellent
shows put on at Anthony Horderns’ and
other like addresses. Certainly young-
sters would have enjoyed this show enor-
mously, unless all that is said of their
hard modernity is true.
Though authors are named for the
play it’s pure folklore, set “in the heart
of Europe in olden times” to the theme
of a wooden marionette who comes to
life under his maker’s hands, steals the
heart (displayed on the end of a piece
of string) of the marionette-carver’s
daughter, and leads her, her boy lover
and neighbors a dance until the heart
is found and restored, and the mischiev-
ous marionette goes back into the tree
out of whose wood he’d been carved.
Such incidental matters as a blustering
marionette-showman and suggestion that
all the animals of the locality have
escaped and taken charge of the village
keep the atmosphere both bright and
lively, and a mute.d accompaniment of
music—delightfully played by an orches-
tra arrayed in Tyrolean braces —enhances
the whole pretty thing.
Karina Gotsch gave a capital per-
formance as the marionette, and Sydney
de Vries barnstormed notably as the
showman. Robert Mace and Lila Vin-
cent gave the exactly right renderings of
the songs that come in regardless of the
action and therefore with curious ap-
propriateness to the folklore character of
the piece. The rest of the amateur cast
were well suited by the nature of the
play. Being pure folklore, it seemed to
be all the better for the little histrionic
crudities.
An Amended Comedy.
The languid reception accorded that
expensive treat “I Married an Angel” at
Melbourne Majesty’s shows how little
producers learn from experience.
It began as a smart, witty, cynical Pari-
sian comedy at Budapest. American
buyers, tickled to death but not knowing
exactly why they were tickled, took it to
America, where they shaved, cleaned and
polished it for American audiences.
It was then picked up by the Firm,
which further deodorised and denatured
it for Australian tastes. It lost its Pari-
sian zip and gained nothing of romance.
Consequently it fell between two stools
into ineptitude.
The same thing was done with Noel
Coward’s “This Year of Grace” in Mel-
bourne. The producers cut out the very
things they liked. The subsequent failure
was blamed on the taste of the Australian
audience.
Cinema Amateur’s Success.
James A. Sherlock, of Sydney, has
received a cable from Hollywood
announcing that for the second year in
succession he has won the Grand Prize
in the competition for the best film pro-
duced by an amateur anywhere in the
world. The contest is organised by the
American Society of Cinematographers.
The winning film, “Nation Builders,”
reviewed on this page a few weeks ago,


Limerick Competitions
ELEVENTH COMPETITION
£5O Prizes
The announcement of the Eleventh
£5O Limerick Competition appears
in this issue on Page 35 (Radio
Page).
Particulars of the Tenth Competition
are repeated.
iff
,lj
England and the Continent
via United States and Canada
ON your trip to England follow
the Pacific Route. See the South
Seas, Honolulu, California, New
York City, and a full range of scenic
wonders en route to an Atlantic
crossing in Britain’s Masterpiece,
R.M.S. “QUEEN MARY” (81,235
tons gross), or in the “AQUI-
TANIA” (45,647 tons), “BRITAN-
NIC” and “GEORGIC” (27,000
tons), or one of the five 20,000
tonners and 10 other ships forming
the largest fleet operating on the
Atlantic and providing an un-
equalled variety of splendid accom-
modations in Cabin Class, Tourist
Class and Third Class. Sailing be-
tween British and Continental ports
and New York, Boston and Mon-
treal every few days.
The new “MAURETANIA”
(33,000 tons) sails on her maiden
voyage from New York on the 6th
July, 1939, and the “QUEEN
ELIZABETH” (85,000 tons) will
further strengthen the Company’s
fleet in the Summer of 1940 —the
Cunard Centenary year.
The year 1939 offers special
attractions to this route in the San
Francisco Golden Gate Exposition,
opening 18th February, and the
New York World Fair, commenc-
ing 30th April. These are additional
high spots in the glorious, glittering,
fast and fascinating route to
Europe.
If you are travelling via Suez or
the Cape to England, make your
return via North America on identi-
cal special rating arrangements
available per all the regular Lines
out of Australia. Eastwards or
Westwards, as part of Round-the-
world bookings, an Atlantic cross-
ing can be included at a surprisingly
low fare, and the Suez, Cape and
Pacific Lines, besides the trans-
American Railroads, accord generous
abatements throughout the year.
All intending travellers should in-
quire concerning this way of making
a Round-the-world circuit and ex-
periencing the standards of com-
fort and service set and maintained
by us for nearly one hundred years.
Cunard While Star
ON THE ATLANTIC—THERE IS NO BETTER WAY
Full information on application to:—
BRISBANE:
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED.
SYDNEY:
PORT LINE, LTD., AND DALGETY &
COMPANY, LIMITED.
MELBOURNE:
CUNARD WHITE STAR, LIMITED,
AND DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD.
And all Travel Agents.
(Incorporated in
epitomises the history of Australian
colonisation. The 1937 Grand Prize was
won by Mr. Sherlock with “Ships of
Sydney,” a color film that includes
achievements that have surprised even
the American experts.
Melbourne Philharmonics.
Melbourne Philharmonic’s 120th per-
formance of “The Messiah” drew a huge
audience to the Town Hall, although the
night was sweltering. Some of the crowd
was allowed to wander in between the
items, according to the unfortunate prece-
dent set at the free midday concerts,
and if conductor George English did not
feel like a tightrope-walker who is asked
by a bystander for a match it says much
for his aplomb.
The interpretation was very fine. En-
thusiasm for the singing of the choir
twice rose to a peak after the “Unto Us”
and the “Hallelujah” chorus. Of the solo-
ists, trumpeter John Robertson came in
for most applause for his soul-shaking
rendering of “The Trumpet Shall Sound.”
Soprano Strella Wilson sang with feel-
ing, but less in the oratorio tradition than
contralto Etta Barnard, whose voice was
small but round. Chief honors went to
bass Stanley Clarkson, whose singing of
“Why Do the Nations So Furiously Rage
Together?” had all the emotional force
that was lacking at the recruiting meeting
in the same hall. Lewis Dawe’s tenor
was musical.
Although English is primarily a con-
ductor of choirs, he handled the A.B.C.
orchestra uncommonly well.
, ■--■■■■ N
The “Cinderella” Ballet.
With the grace of Baronova, the
artistry of Riabouchinska, the excellent
grotesquerie of Lazovsky and the mim-
ing of Algeranoff, the Ballet at Sydney
Royal has been able to make a success
of its light offerings. “Les Femmes de
Bonne Humeur” —a periwigged comedy
of manners and “La Concurrence”—
a satire, on the feminine passion for a
bargain that was heartrendingly timely at
the season of Christmas shopping—were
both amusing. But it can be argued
against them that they were unscrupu-
lously artificial.
“Boutique Fantastique,” not yet pre-
sented, and “Jeux d’Enfants,” on the
current programme, are not artificial in
the same way, but, since they are both
about toys, are liable to the imputation
of childishness. “Jeux d’Enfants,” with
its pretty notion of the formation of soap
bubbles, was a delightful little thing, but
it is the lightest of entertainment. The
Ballet can do more impressive things than
that.
- “Cinderella,” making its first appear-
ance in Sydney, was the sort of comedy
and the sort of childishness that is wholly
justified. Out of the Snow White fairy
tale (what an enchanting ballet could
be made of it) Disney made a film that
could be regarded seriously, if a trifle
paternally, as a work of art. When there
are beauty and fantasy adults can legi-
timately be offered an excursion into
fairyland, “Cinderella” had the requisite
beauty and fantasy.
Apart from the introduction of a faith-
ful cat, the ballet is the same as the tale
everyone knows: Ugly Sisters (first-class
characters for the ballet), Fairy God-
mother, Prince and Pumpkin and all.
Witnessing the dainty spectacle on Christ-
mas Eve gave it every chance to succeed
as a fantasy, but the splendid decor and
the mingling of comedy and charm would
have carried it through even on the Ides
of March.
But trips to fairyland, however
pleasant, could never make a complete
programme. It was sound sense to put
on the same programme as “Cinderella”
and “Jeux d’Enfants” two of the
lightest ballets one could see “Les
Presages,” which is a grim drama of
the soul. Based on Tschaikowsky’s Fifth
Symphony, the piece portrays man’s
struggles with his destiny, a terrific con-
flict of good and evil ending in a triumph
over the passion of war.
Honors of the night went to Riabou-
chinska, who was to the fore in all three
ballets, and as Frivolity in “Les Presages”
gave a most notable performance.
Vic. Travelling Scholarship.
The results of the annual struggle for
the Vic. Nat. Gallery travelling scholar-
ship of £225 and two years’ residence in
Europe are hanging in the gallery
students’ room. The scholarship goes to
Oswald F. Hall, son of the late director
Bernard Hall, who also won the £5O Ber-
nard Hall memorial prize last year.
M. Goetz submitted a striking nude, A.
Coleman a picture of a girl in a ball
dress and a young man with a sheet hang-
ing from his shoulders, and H. Matthews
a nude girl looking in a mirror. An un-
signed picture portraying men drinking
in a bar while a cat protests and a dog
drops envious saliva on the floor may
have been marked down because it is
tainted with the modernist heresy, but
it has the saving grace of humor.
Helping Australian Films.
Whatever may be thought of the pro-
posed new method of doing the job in
N. S. Wales, there’s' a good case and
excellent reason for legislation to give
the Australian film business a helping
hand.
Under the latest bill the Treasurer
will have power, if local producers can
show “they have a reasonable chance of
success,” to guarantee them amounts till
they can get a market for their pictures
that will give them a profit.
It wasn’t explained how that is going
to get over what appears to be the worst
hurdle—getting the local pictures shown
on an equal footing with the American
product in screening, advertising and the
rest of it. How present arrangements
operate against the local article was made
clear by the N. S. Wales Premier.
After the last bill was passed a year
ago, said Mr. Stevens, it was hoped that
those people who. trade with the local
industry and take hundreds of thousands
of pounds of profit from it might have
tried to help ; “but they sought not to
help it, but to shelter behind a constitu-
tional difficulty and take from it the
miserable pittance that had been spent
in trying to help a struggling industry.”
Legislation would not have been brought
before the House, he added, if people
in the industry had behaved in a normal
way.
Mr. Stevens said he had no apology
to make for help extended to the British
film industry, which help had been pro-
tested against as ultra-hard on importers
of American films. There was not one
Australian picture on the American mar-
ket ; the Australian picture producer was
regarded by Americans as just a little
fly buzzing around ; the English market
seemed to be the best hope for the Aus-
tralian picture-maker.
Straying to the open spaces of com-
parative film merit, Mr. Stevens said it
was true that many of the average pro-
ductions from Britain had not reached
the perfection in entertainment of some
American productions. It would be ex-
traordinary if “average productions” were
up to the standard of “some produc-
tions,” but there’s certainly no longer
any need to speak apologetically of
British films. In the last two or three
months they have included such gems
as “Owd Bob,” “The Divorce of Lady
X” and “The Challenge,” every one of
them an entertainer of the first order,
and incomparably finer on all grounds
than Holly wooden superficialities —which
is to say, at a most conservative estimate,
five American films out of every 10 im-
ported.
As for Australian films, trying flat out,
with a full parading of the mawky sen-
timent, the callow acting of minor parts
and the clumsy efforts at humor that
have distinguished a number of them,
they still couldn’t plumb the depths of
inanity that are a common level in
Hollywooden support pictures. Lately
Australian films have shown steady im-
provement, and if only for the means
they provide of countering the cheapest
and worst American influences by set-
ting up against that the Australian
character, scene and outlook they de-
serve solid encouragement.
NINTH LIMERICKS.
The first prize of £2O in the Ninth
Limerick Competition goes to a ruthless
rhyme reminiscent of the ferocious “Bab
Ballad” about the survivor of a ship-
wreck who had eaten his companions
and so was “a bosun tight and a midship-
“I’ve used up the last of me mate."
mite and the crew of the captain’s gig.”
Mrs. C. Armati, of Stanton Hill, Towns-
ville (Q.), is the winner, and the com-
plete Limerick with her last line reads:
A fisherman old and sedate
Once fished for three weeks without bait.
When they questioned him why,
He would gravely reply
“I’ve used up the last of me mate!”
The second prize of £lO goes to Mrs.
J. A. Barker, of Charlton (Vic.) for a
brilliant observation, the truth of which
will be admitted by every fisherman with
pride, and by every fisherman’s wife with
exasperation. Mrs. Barker found a per-
fectly logical reason for the baitless
marathon by making the fisherman ex-
plain
“Fishing isn’t an act —but a state!”
Among the winners of the twenty £1
prizes, Mrs. D. Clark, of 287 Water-
works-road, Ashgrove, Brisbane, was
another to find a very good reason for
the angler’s long sojourn ; she gave him
the joyous response
“I’m on bottle one hundred and eight!”
C. N. Watson, of 21 Blakesley-road,
Hurstville (N.S.W.), suggested
“I’m testing my patience—it’s great!”
The likeliest reason of all was sub-
mitted by N. R. Walker, of 207 Gipps-
street, Abbotsford, N. 9 (Vic.):
“Each question’s a ‘zac’—there’s the
plate,”
but far from improbable explanations,
possibly based on long and bitter ex-
perience, were offered by W. P. O’Neill,
c/o Bunyan P. 0., via Cooma (N.S.W.),
with
“I catch them at just the same rate,”
and by P. H. Berthold, of 49 Spencer-
street, Bunbury (W.A.), with
“Well, with or without, it’s just fate!”
With the line sent by James Sheehan,
of Tabbita (N.S.W.), the matter became
suspicious:
“I’ve been thinking it over of late.”
Possibly, as was indicated by H. Bacon,
of Kotri, Bogantungan (C.Q.), it was
mere absentmindedness. Mr. Bacon had
the venerable gent., when they pointed
out to him that he was fishing without
bait, exclaiming with relieved surprise
“Now THAT’S why I’ve had such a wait!”
Similarly, but a bit more suspiciously,
Mrs. N. Greenwood, of 37 Rupert-street,
Footscray (Vic.), referring to the bait,
put it
“Why THAT must have been what I ate!”
And L. Durbin, of Donnybrook (W.A.),
had the guileless charm of
“I could never find out what they ate.”
With the line from D. O. Negus, of
Rainworth-road, Rainworth, W. 2, Bris-
bane, the suspicion suddenly became an
unquestionable certainty:
“Don’t disturb me; I’m Alfred the Great!”
Into the same category went the lines
from Mrs. Jean Hall, of Derani,
Clarke-road, Hornsby (N.S.W.),
“I don’t want them to know why I wait,”
from James Plimsoll, of 18 Castlefield-
street, Bondi (N.S.W.),
“No matter! No fish here of late!”
from R. H. Atkinson, of 27 Rathay-
street, Victoria Park (W.A.),
“I’ll starve ’em to death at this rate,”
and from P. Wyld, Box 14, Canowindra
(N.S.W.),
“They’ll be tickled to death if I wait.”
The remainder of the £1 prizes went
to: Wallace Johnson, Box 174, Ingham
(N.Q.),
“What odds? There’s no hook, trace or
weight!”
W. Matthews, 167 Davey-street, Hobart,
“I’m letting them grow while I wait.”
“Bottle one hundred and eight.”
C. B. Newham, Hunter-street, Indooroo-
piiiy (Q-),
“For a change I am making THEM wait.”
E. W. Harris, 17 Currie-street, Adelaide,
“L can’t find a worm to stay straight.”
Mrs. I. Downey, Dunmore-avenue,
Katoomba (N.S.W.),
“Why live at this mad modern rate!”
Frank Nathan, 53 Craigend-street, King's
Cross, Sydney,
“Well, I’ve noticed no fish here of late.”


Relieve Eczema
and Itching Skin
JF you suffer from Eczema or other
' itching skin complaints, don't delay
proper treatmentanother day. When
care is not taken, there is a tendency
for the continued irritations and un-
sightly eruptions of the skin to spread
and become chronic. Doan's Oint-
ment will give you quick relief, for it
penetrates to the true skin where
inflammation lies. It is antiseptic)
healing and quickly allays the irrita-
tion. Be sure you get. Doan's Ointment
to-day.
DOANSOINTMEKT
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Personal and Missing Friends.
FAHEY, MICHAEL—aged about 52 years, a
painter, last heard of about 16 years ago m
Queensland —will hear something to his advan-
tage if he communicates with NATIONAL
TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
INFORMATION is required by PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Adelaide, South Australia, as to
the whereabouts of HENRY JAMES A. KING,
boundary-rider (last heard of near Ivanhoe,
New South Wales).
Legal Notice.
ELVINA EMILY IRENE GREG, deceased.
PERSONS claiming to be next-of-kin to
ELVINA EMILY IRENE GREG, late of The-
barton, South Australia, Widow, deceased,
who was a daughter of William Ormsby Irwin,
of North Richmond, New South Wales, Car-
penter, and who died at Adelaide on the 4th
day of October, 1937, please communicate with
the undersigned or with the PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, Adelaide. It is believed that the late Mrs.
Greg had relatives named Skuthorp.
SCAMMELL, HARDY & SKIPPER,
Selborne Chambers, Pirie Street, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the Public Trustee.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The open-air theatre in Phillip Park
is an ideal setting for a Christmas play.
The trees and shrubs were alternately
bathed in light or sunk in shadow when
“Adeste Fideles,” a rhythmic play
arranged by Heather Gell, was presented.
For the taste of some there was too
much elaboration. The evergreen story of
Christmas might be more simply told. But
the whole was pictorial, and moments
such as when the lilies burned whitely
in the Annunciation scene and when
along various paths converging on the
stage came white-robed companies bear-
ing lighted candles were effective under
the night sky.
Some of Mary Whidborne’s pupils
were among the dancers, and some of
Heather Gell’s and of Rachel Lewers’s.
Thelma Thomas had designed the color-
ful costumes. Harry Tighe was the
announcer, and the artist Bim Hilders
gave a hand. This was one of Christmas
week’s most appropriate play offerings,
and had large audiences on three nights.
It was interesting to see a group of
Lascars, probably from one of the ships
off Woolloomooloo, sitting watching the
play intently. One wondered what they
made of it all. Minister for Education
Drummond was among the applauders.
There was one touch of sadness in this
Letter’s Christmas mail. Amid the usual
pile of gay nonsense lay an envelope in
the writing of a dead man. The writing
was that of Lord Beauchamp, and the
letter had been posted in New York
before his death. His greeting card is a
reproduction of a portrait of the Comte
de Toulouse, who lived from 1678-1737.
The painting is by Mignard.
Funny how the most innocent citizen
trembles to be found by the police with a
glass in the hand after six o’clock. Saw
two well-known Sydneyites slip their
martinis on to an unobtrusive table when
the police arrived at Doris Fitton’s party.
That’s not so peculiar as it sounds. Mr.
and Mrs. Mason (she’s Doris Fitton)
were giving their own Christmas party
in the Independent Theatre clubrooms,
and Doris arranged to have the club
Christmas raffle drawn there, so, of
course, according to regulations, two
members of the Force came along. The
Commissioner had done the Indepen-
dents proud, and had sent along two of
his handsomest.
The first prize was a painting by Joe
Collins, the second an order on David
Jones’s for £5 (won, I think, by a Maori-
lander). There were also a camera, a
hamper and a pound’s worth of books.
Doris looked very French (which she
isn’t) in a new hairdress, a slinky black
satin skirt and an apricot lace blouse.
Ailsa Sutherland was in pale-honey
colored crepes, and Ethelwyn Kirk
looked as though she might be under-
study for an angel in a Christmas play,
so blue her long, girdled frock, so golden
the short flat curls of hair. Sumner
Locke Elliott was there. His revue was
the club’s Christmas play attraction. Ken
Lawson told his latest story of Bondi
beach. Somebody gave this Letter the
recipe for a cocktail called Mother-in-
law —mostly stout and bitter. Joe Collins
was among the blithe. Mrs. Trafford
Whitelock’s hat was a shallow little boat
of red roses.
The P.E.N. Club is getting pleasantly
excited over arrangements for the club’s
dinner to H. G. Wells. It will be inter-
esting to find what H.G. is like, now
that he has become, so to speak, a
graduate of the Mechanics’ Institute.
Probably the heart and the emotions
that went into Kipps and Ann Veronica
will still palpitate somewhere. H.G. is
to give at least one lecture here. Dan
O’Connor is over from Maoriland to
make arrangements for it. That is going
to be one of January’s great nights.
The Wells dinner was the subject of
discourse after the P.E.N.’s general
meeting. That resulted in Elliot Napier
being elected president for the third
time. Jeanie Ranken, who put in an ex-
cellent treasurer’s report, did so against
a rather surprising background of wine-
bottles. They were the club’s property,
but the poor things—a row of them —•
couldn’t find a home in the cellar. Jeanie
resigned her office, and Ruth Bedford’s
secretarial duties will now be in the
hands of John Preece. Winifred Birkett
will look after the cash.
Grace Adams East has returned with
her trumpet from Maoriland, which she
toured under a broadcasting engagement.
She reports Enzed as lovely but rather
“drippy”; apparently no moth can
thrive in the umbrella across the Tas-
man. The American paid a special visit
Dunedinwards to see Southland’s bloom-
ing of heather and gorse. Yesterday she
sailed off on the beginning of her voy-
age home. On the way she will look in
at the Near East, South Africa and
England, and then California, her own
bit of America, will claim her for
a time. Grace didn’t tell me this
last bit. A Maorilander reports that
her striking looks and clothes caused
quite a sensation in Auckland. She will
come back our way in 1940.
Patricia Gibson has returned to Syd-
ney after four years in Europe. Most
of that time she spent studying the harp
with Gwendoline Mason, one of the
best-known harpists in England. Before
going to London Patricia had studied at
the Con. for nine years ; and now she
is an associate of the Royal College of
Music for harp and pianoforte. Back
to Australia with her in the Port Alma
came a splendid Erard harp. While in
London she played in orchestral works
led by Sir Thomas Beecham, Malcolm
Sargent and Eugene Goossens.
Here is pictured Mrs. Norman Nock,
wife of Sydney’s Lord Mayor. Mrs.
Nock’s looks speak for themselves. The
charm and efficiency with which she
handles her civic duties are famed. Falk
photograph.
Do you know the geebung, the bauera
or the wonga-wonga? These, with all
the other flowers that blow in our bush-
land, have been painted in six panels by
Margaret Preston for the Australian
pavilion at the World’s Fair in New
York next year. They look as though
they are growing under a burn-
ing sun, and although grouped in bowl
and vase they have the native abandon of
things that grow around Mrs. Preston’s
Berowra home.
Here are ofchids, red gums, coral,
blue smokebush, pink myrtle, boronia,
banksia, Christmas bell, tea-tree, waratah,
flannel flower and rock lily, painted by a
master brush.
To go with each group is a numbered
list of the flowers contained in it. These
numbers have been cleverly worked by
the artist into a decorative outline for
her flower-pieces. Thus the numeral 1
points to waratah, which is No. 1 flower
in the indfex panel.
The Commission is so pleased with
Miss Preston’s work that it has asked
her to do four more panels of the same
size, 4ft. by 3ft. But, unlike the first
order, which stipulated “as many species
as possible in each canvas,” each of
these panels is to be devoted to one
flower only—namely, flannel, banksia,
waratah and gum-blossom. The four
panels are for the San Francisco Golden
Gate exhibition.
Margaret Preston’s flower panels will
be in artistic company in New York.
It is claimed that 32 artists have been
engaged by the Fair, and that 102 murals
have been commissioned. Linoleum, all
the metals and ferro-enamel are some
of the materials which will be used in
the carrying out of the design. The
place should be gay with its rainbow
color scheme. The buildings will be
grouped in color zones. Blues, yellows,
violets and greens will be softly shaded
into one another. The murals planned
for these buildings range from the classic
to the modern, and are of great dimen-
sions—2oft., 27ft. and 60ft. high.
Lena Ward, once again secretary of
the Central Council of the Associated
Music Clubs of Australia, loves nothing
better than to tell of the progress this
movement has made. Eleven years ago
the venture was launched by Oliver
King, and this idea of having the best
music brought to their doorsteps appealed
so much to suburbs like Rose Bay,
Wahroonga and St. George that there
are now nine metropolitan clubs and
one each at Bathurst, Newcastle and
Kempsey. On an evening when the
concert of their local club is taking place
you couldn’t lure the members away
from their particular suburb. They
know that the music provided will be
of the highest order. Very often visit-
ing artists of the calibre of Moiseiwitsch,
Paul Schramm, the Spivakovskys, and
singer Charles Benson appear. May
Moore made the portrait.
This decentralising of the arts is a
good thing. In addition it is much
cheaper for the music-lover to attend
a good concert when it means only walk-
ing down the pleasant, garden-lined
streets of his own suburb. The journey
to and from town is often, too, a deter-
rent to older members of the family.
Among the movement’s patrons is Lady
Gowrie, who often visits the clubs. Sec-
retary Lena Ward also has the right idea
about the personal touch, and visits each
centre at least once a year. Every year
there is a scholarship of £25 open to
members or sons and daughters of mem-
bers. This year the violin was the win-
ning instrument under the talented pilot-
ing of Joyce Abraham, a pupil of Gerald
Walenn.
The Literary Circle of the Lyceum
Club held its Christmas tea-party (a
hardy annual) on a hot afternoon re-
cently. The circle’s president, scholarly
Mrs. Gore Newell, cut the Christmas
cake,, which stood four-square and
teemed with candied compliments of the
season. Veteran pressman Leighton
Bailey, his wife at his side, unloaded
reminiscences of the Inky Way in the
days when he was sub-editor of the now-
dead “Evening News.” Mrs. Marion
Darsow and vice-president Elizabeth
Allan were at one end of a crowded
table. Hon flower lady of the club,
Laura Teague, took the top seat after
decorating the tea tables with garlands of
flowers from her Turramurra garden.
Knight Tom Gordon’s Christmas
cocktail party on the 21st filled the
Australia’s banquet hall with city men
who, if they didn’t know one another
when they came in, were all boys
together when they bid their host good-
night. Cocktails of all hues, from cham-
pagne to martini, sped the evening along,
and a bar in a corner provided Tooth’s
and Toohey’s best for those who had
other ideas about what constituted the
life of a party. Invitation cards said
from 5 till 7, but some wives didn’t hear
their husbands sneaking in until around
the witching hour. Gordon Wharton, the
sharebroker, left for home with two rifles
clutched in his arms; but it was all
right—they were in cardboard boxes, and
intended as Christmas presents.
How many Chinese children will un-
knowingly bless Milano Garti as they
stick their little beaks into steaming
dishes of rice? Milano put on his musi-
cal play “Cosmopolitan” to aid the relief
of distress among Chinese children. The
Australian Hall was packed, and net pro-
ceeds were about £45.
Guests at Pat Macken’s cocktail party
are still talking of the Christmas trees,
green and glittering, which were part of
the decorations. The party was in the
Mackens’ Bellevue Hill home, and there
were about 90 to sip the Macken brew
and to exclaim over the ices which were
moulded as Santa Claus. The Austra-
lian bush’s offering to Christmas found a
place in the decorations, which featured
bush and bell. The young hostess was
charming in black sheer sprayed with
gardenias. Mrs. Macken, who helped
Mrs. Sullivan to entertain, wore an ankle-
length frock of black lace.
Annette Kellerman (Mrs. Sullivan) and
her husband will arrive in Sydney early
in the New Year. They come from
America by way of England. One of
the spots they look forward to visiting
is Newry Island in North Queensland,
where Annette’s sister and her husband
run a tourist resort.
Went to see “Tuttifaentchen,” the
marionette made out of the wood of a
fir-tree. The fairy story of how he was
given life, and then bewitched the small
Trudel (the toymaker’s daughter) to
throw away her heart, because if you
haven’t a heart nothing worries you, is
as evergreen as the fir itself. How true
love found the heart, and how Tutti-
faentchen found the fir-tree from which
he had been cut, and grew into it again
was told, at St.. James’s Hall, against an
orchestral background. Pretty effects
were gained by the small children repre-
senting fir-trees. Scenery, too, was effec-
tive ; -and the final orchestral burst sent
the audience away, a Christmas hymn
literally on its lips.
Captain Evan P. Cameron, R.D.,
R.N.R., F.R.A.S., who is the origina-
tor of the Clan Cameron movement
now spreading all over the world,
entertained Dame Mary Gilmore, Lieut.-
Col. Claude Cameron (president of the
N.S.W. division of Clan Cameron) and
J. R. Cameron at a luncheon in the
Orford. In the evening he gave to an
interested audience an account of the
rally held in Scotland, illustrated by a
cinema record of the proceedings.
Captain Cameron is the writer of the
book Good-bye, Russia, to which John
Masefield wrote an appreciative foreword.
He is now calling upon the Cameron
Clan to preserve the ancestral lands in
Lochaber, with the secondary aim that
the Cameron movement shall spread to
the other clans throughout the world
whose descendants and septs now number
millions, so that these may be united
finally in the cause of world peace.
Mary Gilmore has had reunion with
son Bill and his wife Dorothy. They
motored all the way from Cloncurry. The
trip was done in a fortnight—heat, tor-
nados, fires, bad roads and all.
Kate Baker, whose efforts have been
successful in keeping Joseph Furphy’s
Such Is Life before the public, has come
to Sydney to make her home with Miles
Franklin. Before leaving Melbourne she
was farewelled by many literary friends,
prominent among them being members
of the Bread and Cheese Club, one of
whom wrote a tribute to her. It was
autographed, framed and presented by
the club. Edward Harrington is the
author. His work has appeared in the
columns of The Bulletin.


MANY STUDENTS EARN £6, £7, £7lOl-
- WEEK After Few Months’ TRAINING
■
V
l
r
m
TRAIN AT HOME
For An Interesting Position In
DIESEL ENGINEERING
Many Diesel Engineering College students have
completed their courses in as short a period as four
months—qualifying for £6, £7, £7/10/- a week
jobs.
To-day is the Diesel Age! Mines, ships, buses,
trains, aeroplanes—more and more power-users
in every industry are changing to Diesel, the
modern, highly efficient, more economical power.
As a result, new, well-paid jobs are opening up
every day to Diesel-trained men. Still more men
will be wanted in the future in Diesel operation,
service, maintenance and sales, and positions in
other power fields will become scarcer. Post the
coupon below NOW for free booklet explaining
this new motive power, and get the facts about
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE home
study course . . . See how YOU can fit your-
self for a position in this new industry of to-day
and to-morrow by qualifying for the D.E.C.
Diploma.
NO EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
No Previous Engineering Knowledge Needed
Because of the professional standing of the
College, the practical method of training
and its proved record with 1400 students
throughout Australasia, the D.E.C. course
offers the surest way to success in the
Diesel field.
The lessons in the course are briefly and simply written
by highly-qualified and specially-trained engineers. They
are illustrated with clear, easily-understood diagrams, etc.,
which everyone can follow. You can read them as easily
as your newspaper. Each lesson is checked by competent
examiners, who take a personal interest in every student,
and to whom students may write about any problem
connected with the Course.
Join the band of 1400 Successful D.E.C. Students
Remember the motor industry, radio, talkies! Those who
got in early got the best jobs. YOU can get in early in the
Diesel field if you act now. The simple act of sending for
this free Diesel booklet may be the turning point in your life.
The D.E.C. Primary Course deals with the whole subject from
the ground up. It covers the two main sections of Diesel
engineering—TßACTlON DIESEL (tractors, motor buses,
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE IS AUSTRALIA’S
LARGEST DIESEL SCHOOL
lorries, etc.) and STATIONARY DIESEL (mining and other power
plants). The fees are low, and may be paid by easy instalments or
in cash, whichever you wish.
Get This
FREE BOOKLET...
This interesting booklet by Mr. W. Kingsford Smith,
Principal of the College, provides you with full particulars
about this simple and efficient Training Course. Sending
for it means no obligation to anyone, but you owe it to
yourself to have the facts. Tear off and post the
coupon NOW.
"Sf'ywwi,
✓
/
The Only College
Teaching Diesel Only.
Therefore Concentrating on Diesel Students.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 28/12/’38..
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
BRISBANE.
PERTH.
NEWCASTLE.


3
m
B
Qfl
A Melbourne holiday for the family in
Australia's largest non-licensed hotel
is yours at the new Victoria Palace.
Kiddies are welcomed, too, and all
arrangements will be made for their
care whilst parents visit or shop.
Accommodation and cuisine are first-
class. "Room-only" tariffs: 4/- to
7/6 for single rooms; 8/- to 16/- for
double rooms.
VICTORIA PALACE
215 LIT. COLLINS ST. (next Town Hall)
MELBOURNE
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1784 of 1938.
BETWEEN NORA TERESA WHYMS, Peti-
tioner,
And GEORGE DENNIS WHYMS Re-
spondent.
TO GEORGE DENNIS WHYMS late of
Shellharbour in the State of New South
Wales
TAKE NOTICE that the said NORA
TERESA WHYMS has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds that
you did without just cause or excuse wilfully
desert the said Petitioner and without any such
cause or excuse continuously left her so de-
serted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Thir-
teenth day of March One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-nine and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. Copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Thirteenth day of December
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) N. J. PHILLIPS,
Clerk in Divorce.
THOMPSON, BRADFIELD & FINCHAM,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 9 Martin Place,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2097 of 1938.
BETWEEN WINIFRED MAITLAND
TAPLYN Petitioner
And RICHARD MARK TAPLYN Re-
spondent.
TO RICHARD MARK TAPLYN late of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WINIFRED
MAITLAND TAPLYN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of your desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Sixteenth day of March One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Nineteenth day of December,
1938.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
G. M. STAFFORD, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TO ARTHUR HARRY NEALE HAMMOND
formerly of Hastings in the Dominion of
New Zealand, but now of Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at
New Plymouth citing you to appear and answer
the petition of MAREWA HAMMOND of
Hawera in the Judicial District of Taranaki in
the Dominion of New Zealand Married Woman
wherein she prays for a divorce from you on
the ground that she the said Marewa Ham-
mond and you are parties to an agreement for
separation AND such citation intimates that
in default of your so doing the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said petition and to pronounce
sentence therein notwithstanding your absence
NOW THEREFORE take notice that for the
purpose aforesaid you are within thirty days
after the date of this publication to attend in
person or by your solicitor at the Supreme
Court Office at New Plymouth and there to
enter an appearance without which you will
not be allowed to address the Court at any
stage of the proceedings. A copy of the said
citation and petition will be supplied to you
on your applying for the same at the Supreme
Court Office at New Plymouth.
DATED this 15th day of December, 1938.
L. W. LOUISSON,
Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
ALFRED AUGUSTUS BENNETT is the
Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address for
service is at the offices of MESSRS. NICHOL-
SON, BENNETT & KIRKBY, Solicitors, Devon
Street, New Plymouth, in the Dominion of New
Zealand.
TO THOMAS JOHN LEICESTER DAVIES
Salesman formerly of 44 Park Street South
Yarra in the State of Victoria but now
of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife VIOLET
MARGUERITE DAVIES has instituted pro-
ceedings for divorce against you on the ground
of a repeated act of adultery UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court at Melbourne
on or before the Fifteenth day of January
1939 the suit may proceed in your absence.
K. CARGILL RANKIN, of 17 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Melbourne
Chatter
Fish eaten out of shells or hot to the
palate straight from the frying-pan were
part of the Christmas Day menu for the
McCoy Society, spending the festive
season in pursuit of science on Sunday
Island on the east side of Wilson’s
Promontory. Three or four women are
included in the batch of 15 or so students,
under the leadership of Professor of
Botany J. S. Turner, who left for Port
Albert by car 10 days ago, then em-
barked in a small boat for the island,
some hours’ journey from the mainland.
Even the good sailors were hoping for
fine weather. The Bailey Sawyers offered
their famous yacht Henrietta for the ex-
pedition, and, although arrangements
couldn’t be made in time for the Sunday
Island voyage, advantage is being taken
of their co-operation, and a further ex-
pedition will set off in the middle of
January for several uninhabited islands
of Bass Strait.
The McCoy people, who are living
under canvas and in two fishing shacks,
included saltwater soap among their
stores, for the water on the island is
limited and there might not be much to
spare for ablutions. Professor Wood
Jones was one of the founders of the
society (called after Professor McCoy,
Melbourne’s first Professor of Biology)
and was a whale for rooting the students
out of their warm bunks at break of
day to get on with their flora and fauna
hunts. The object of the society, which
is three years old, is to train students in
field research. So far its activities have
been confined to islands, but eventually
its members will make a biological survey
of the continent.
The present expedition wasn’t much
favored by geologists (the rocks of
Sunday Island being scientifically un-
attractive to them), but it collected
botanists, zoologists, insect people and
med. students with interests varying
from serpents of the sea to birds of the
air. The scientists won’t have too many
chores to do, for they took with them a
cook and a keeper of the commissariat.
They are expected back in civilisation
during the second week in January.
Moira Madden and Bert Hallenstein
had a very fussless morning wedding, a
festive luncheon with a few relatives, and
in the afternoon were on the mat at
Menzies ready to welcome a couple of
hundred friends to a cocktail party. The
bride’s choice for the party was palest
pink satin, very full and long as to skirt,
which she wore with a little tulle coat
and no hat, but a pink bow in her sleek
dark hair. Her mother, Mrs. Guy Mad-
den, was in purple-grape satin, and small
sister Toinette wore all white to her toes.
It was quite an informal party, and only
one health was proposed, that of the
bride and ’groom by Dr. R. H. Morrison.
Among many women present who were
distinctive in black was Mrs. Stuart
Murray, and of those who looked par-
ticularly well in white was Mrs. Frank
Stuart. Others who agreed that such
pleasant weather was worthy of ensembles
included Betty Trenchard, whose color
contrast was a large black hat, and Mrs.
Vivian Wiltshire, wearing a white hat
whose uplift brim carried “rabbits’ ears”
of black taffeta. Mrs. Keith Colquhoun
was her vivacious self in rose-dust crepe,
black gloves and hat. Part of a burnished
copper picture was Yvonne Atkinson, the
white background of her linen frock
hand-blocked with a leafy design in
exactly the same shade as her auburn
hair.
The bride and ’groom, who have
gone to Sydney for their honeymoon and
will later make their home in Adelaide,
received presents of superb quality, in-
cluding Sheffield plate, Georgian silver, a
mahogany cabinet of cutlery and a
dressing-case fitted with tortoiseshell and
silver brushes, powder bowls, etc., for
the bride.
Christmas Eve was an important date
for three Melbourne teachers, Miss I. C.
Ryan, of Melbourne High School, Miss
E. M. Luke, of M.L.C., and Miss A.
Pitman, of Macßobertson Girls’ High
School, who left on that date in the Kamo
Maru for Japan as specially invited
guests of the Japanese Foreign Office,
Railway Ministry Board and Tourist De-
partment. By their degrees and qualifica-
tion (they have studied Japanese at Mel-
bourne University) the three teachers are
considered to be particularly suitable as
liaison officers for friendship between
Nippon and the Commonwealth, the idea
being that when they return in March
they will impart correct information
about Japan to their pupils and the
general public. •
One institution which they are sure to
visit is Mrs. Matoko Hani’s Jiyu Gakuen
(Garden School of Freedom) at Mina-
masawa, a country district outside Tokio.
Here several hundred girls and a smaller
number of intermediate-standard boys,
for the most part the children of the “in-
telligentsia,” are taught to be their own
disciplinarians. Each child has certain
days when she is responsible for the
conduct of her young fellow-citizens
Public speaking and discussion are con-
sidered important, and even the small
children address the whole school on their
ideas, their appreciation of or difficulties
in certain studies, etc. Art, music, the
drama and gymnastics are included in the
curriculum.
Thursday is “English Day,” when the
children practise their knowledge of
that language. There are no servants
at the school, the pupils doing all
the cooking and housework. They
wear European dress, and may express
their individuality of taste, for uniforms
are not essential. An interesting point
about the policy of the school is that it
is run on Christian principles. The day
commences with an assembly in the audi-
torium for prayers and hymns and
addresses by teachers and pupils. Mrs.
Hani, who is a remarkable woman, has
written many books on religion and edu-
cation, and was Japan's first woman
journalist.
Among the busiest people in the cast
of “The Women” are American Debby
Dare, Queenslander Mary Duncan and
Barbara Smith, who comes from Sydney,
for as well as their own parts and their
understudying they are the three assist-
ant stage managers. The two young
Australians are delighted at the oppor-
tunities afforded them for studying
timing and lighting as well as training
their memories'and powers of observation
regarding props, and personnel.
Miss Duncan (subject of this Spencer
Shier portrait) is the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. R. F. Duncan, of Rockhampton, and
has always been interested in drama, but
this is the first chance she has had of
using, histrionically, her executive ability.
She went to school at Frensham, N.S.W.
Among her favorite relaxations are riding
(she has a mare of her own up in Queens-
land) and fishing around the islands off
Emu Point, a few miles from Rockhamp-
tQn. She’s a good sailor, and hauls in
the big fish with equanimity no matter
how much the small boat rocks. An-
other of her pleasant holiday memories
is turtle riding down the beach and into
the water for the first few laps of the
turtle’s break for the open sea.
Friends of Dick Sherlock and Pat Mills
are offering congratulations and saying
welcome home all in one breath. Dick
has been abroad for a few years, and Pat
went away 10 months ago. Though not
engaged officially, the pair had been pals
for a long time, so no one was surprised
when they went off and married each
other in London round about the middle
of the year. 'Mrs. Vivian Price, who is
Pat’s aunt, has lent the young couple
her home in Landale-road, where they
will live for the present.
Last March Mrs. Ken Menzies brought
her daughters back home from their
finishing school abroad, and now she and
Joan (a recent debutante) are preparing
for another sea voyage, this time not so
far afield. They will board the Narkunda
on January 10 for Colombo to meet Mrs.
Menzies’s mother, Mrs. Yencken, on her
way back to Australia.
Staying in Sydney at the Bondi Hotel
are the Ken Leicesters, whose method of
travel was the Spirit of Progress, trains
being a holiday to Ken while cars are
all in the day’s work. The couple will
return to Melbourne after the holidays
to see their green, burgundy and off-
white furnishings materialise in the flat
they leased in Dandenong-road. For
this newly-married pair (the bride was
Coral Spiers) there will be no aftermath
of exchanging wedding presents, for none
of their friends seemed to think alike,
and they received no duplications among
their gifts.
Farewell parties will soon be under
way for Wendy Tudehope, who with her
mother, Mrs. H. C. Tudehope, leaves
by the Strathaird in February for Eng-
land, where her marriage will take place
to Hugh Stanley Walduck, of Hatfield,
Hertfordshire, and of Gloucester Gate.
Miss Tudehope (her photograph is by
Broothorn) met her fiance when she was
abroad earlier in the year.
Though not nearly such an occasion
as the conferring of degrees held early
in the year the December graduation at
the University has its own attractions.
It’s a smaller, friendlier affair at which
visitors are practically all directly inter-
ested in one or more of the students re-
ceiving their degrees and diplomas, when
the Wilson Hall can accommodate the
visitors and not just the very early arrivals
or those with special entree cards. Medi-
cal students ready to become residents at
the various hospitals early in the new
year predominate at the December
graduation. Next come the legal men
and women, who have professional
reasons for wanting to get the keys to
the courts of law into their pockets.
This year there were also a number of
arts students and a sprinkling of science,
engineering, dentistry, commerce and
agricultural science people among the
199 successes. Those sharing in con-
gratulations included James Essington
Lewis, a son of the managing director of
8.H.P., who is now a Bachelor of Metal-
lurgical Engineering. Newly-fledged
medicoes are J. R. Stawell, son of the
late Richard Stawell, and J. O. Lavarack,
son of Major-General Lavarack. Peter
Mitchell, stepson of Mrs. Weber, M.L.A.,
became a B.Ag.Sc.
Standish Falkiner, who is the son of
the late Norman Falkiner, and Valda
Mendes, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Louis
Mendes, chose a plain early-afternoon
wedding at Christ Church, after which
they entertained on board the Orama
friends who came to see them off on
their honeymoon voyage. Their destina-
tion is first Colombo and later India, with
a visit to Madras, where they hope to see
a lot of the Tom Rutherfords. On their
return at the end of February they will
take charge of Mrs. Norman Falkiner’s
possessions at 15 Coolullah-avenue while
she is abroad.
A host of friends and relatives and
thousands of young folk who read her
old books and her new ones (one a year)
are interested in the return to Australia
in January of Mary Grant Bruce, who
will be accompanied by her husband,
Major Grant Bruce, and their son Jon.
Jon’s a bright and popular young man
who did well at school and at an agri-
cultural college. A second son, Pat, who
lost his life in a shooting accident when
only 13, would have been perhaps even
cleverer. He could read (not just nur-
sery rhymes) when he was three. Mary
Grant Bruce was not a station child ;
her father was a surveyor in Sale. Her
friends remember her as a long-legged
little girl who developed a fine carriage
attributed to her habit of walking to
school with her books balanced upon her
head. She didn’t change her name on
her wedding day —she was a Bruce and
married a Bruce, her father’s cousin—but
when she started to write, for the sake
of euphony she became Mary instead of
Minnie. The Grant Bruce family will
probably settle down for good on a
Vic. country property.


f
"MEEKA"
POLEY
SADDLE,
£ll/14/-
(BARE)
£l2/17/6
(MOUNTED)
and
Is full “Somer-
set” type and
is made of best
quality Kip. The
flaps and skirt are in
one piece. The tree
is strongly made
has a solid gullet plate.
WALTHER v STEVENSON ETI;
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
C -IN-ONE
U DENTAL CREAM
Dissolves film and stains
Never scratches Enamel
“AWfiTEA”
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
I
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Some Do Their Jobs
“J.E.8.”: Vital statistics just issued
confirm the right of the tropical north
to sue for libel when it is called “effete”
or “decadent.”
The Queensland Statistician has divided
the State into three. In the Brisbane
metropolis, well-housed, with access to
every comfort and the best medical atten-
tion, there are 318,430 people. Their
birthrate last year (1937-38) was the low-
est in the State —15.7 per 1000, against
18.2 in sub-tropical cities, 21 in sub-
tropical towns and shires and 20.4 for
the whole sub-tropical area.
For the tropical area, above Capricorn,
the rate was 21.1. In the tropical towhs
and shires it was over 22.5. So that
252,000 tropical people produced 5339
new Australians, while 318,430 Brisbane-
ites had only 4996. The 422,665 sub-
tropicals, outside Brisbane, added 8622
gross; and these figures far from tell the
whole story.
Expanding increase depends on female,
not on male, numbers. For every 100
females born, Brisbane produced 113.3
males, sub-tropical rural districts, 114.3
males and the tropics only 107.7 males in
the second quarter,of 1938.
Townsville, Charters Towers, Mackay
and the tropical cities, as a group, bred
more girls than boys.
In tropical towns and cities the
marriage rate is higher by over four per
1000 than in the capital. But for the
whole of the sub-tropics it was only 7.1,
against 14.4 in the sub-tropical cities
last year. Possibly, this is due to the fact
that many couples come to town to be
married.
Deathrates reflect no more credit on
the big city than the birthrates. While
the Brisbane rate was 10.9, despite its
health facilities, that in sub-tropical
towns and shires was only 6.9 —surely a
world record—which left them with a
natural increase of 14.1, against the
metropolitan increase of only 4.8 per
1000. The whole of sub-tropical Queens-
land, including its cities, had a natural
increase of 12.5, or going on for three
times the Brisbane rate.
And that “white worker’s grave” N.
Queensland, as some orator called it dur-
ing the Black Labor Campaign of ’99?
Its deathrate was nine, two points below
Brisbane—towns and shires B.l—against
7.4 last year. Its natural increase was
12.1, and its infantile mortality rate in a
bad year was only 41.2 per 1000 live
births, against Brisbane’s 44 and sub-
tropical rural Queensland’s 35.1.
Net Population Stakes, 1937-38.
Net Increase
—Births
Population. Over Deaths.
1. Rural sub-trop. .. 422,226 5305
2. Tropical North .. 252,805 3058
3. Brisbane .. .. 318,430 1521
So Brisbane was a bad third.
“X.T.”: Defence activity is not being
confined to the cities and the coast. The
N.T. “Gazette” contains notice of the
reservation of 298 acres for defence
purposes at Alice Springs.
* * * *
“Fillup”: Even the benefits conferred
on it by Minister McEwen’s far-reaching
changes could not have cheered Alice
Springs more than the latest “important
development.” Beer is down from Is. to
9d. a pot, bottles and glasses in propor-
tion. With summer over Centralia and
"Too late , Ma, Christmas is over."
the annual race meeting due, a beer strike
was in the air, but Bung played Father
Christmas.
* * * #
“K. 57”: When Minister McEwen said
that transport costs in the N.T. would be
“substantially reduced” (B. 14/12/’3B) he
certainly meant it. Cost of landing
southern goods at Wave Hill, in the Vic-
toria River district, was £24 2s. Id. per
ton ; at Anthony’s Lagoon, on the Barkly
Tableland, £l7 175., of which the Govern-
ment paid half. Under McEwen’s new
scheme of co-ordinated shipping, rail and
road-train services, Wave Hill charges
will be reduced to £ll 95., and fencing
material for “developmental” work will
be landed at Anthony’s at £6 6s. 4d.
* * * *
“Philp”: Fortune smiled on the R.A.F.
Vickers-Wellesley bombers on their
record-breaking trip from Egypt to Dar-
win, but has frowned on them since they
reached Australia. One ’plane knocked
itself about in a forced landing at Wind-
sor (N.S.W.), and Authority is wondering
if it’s good enough for the R.A.A.F.
Trouble in an oil-pipe brought the second
'plane down on a saltpan about 100 miles
nor’-east of Derby (W.A.). A party from
the Walcott mission rescued the crew,
but the ’plane’s fate is doubtful —there is
no room for it to take off, and salvaging
would entail dismantling and carting by
packhorse. I trust the crew of the third
bomber are not superstitious.
* * * *
“Derrot”: A K.N.I.L.M. Lockheed 14
was flown from Darwin to Sydney, 2482
miles, in 11 hours 40 minutes and back
again in 11 hours. Trouble with the
retractable undercarriage caused a delay
before crossing the Timor, and the ’plane
arrived in Sydney 27 hours late. Captain
de Graaf took off at 5.15 the following
morning and averaged 226 m.p.h. to Dar-
win. Both trips were made with normal
equipment, and on each the ’plane carried
its full complement of seven passengers
and freight. But while commercial avia-
tion is bringing the north closer to the
south the Postal Department is evidently
doing its best to keep them apart. After
9 p.m., when the Darwin telegraph station
closes and Adelaide switches off, wireless
is Darwin’s sole connection with the
south. When the flying-boat Coorong
was blown ashore the post office tried for
two hours to raise Adelaide on the line.
Finally the wireless station had to broad-
cast a general call, which was picked up
and delivered to the Adelaide G.P.O. It’s
a sorry state of affairs for “the front door
of Australia.”
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: N.T. is to have a native
police force, culled “from the best and
most intelligent boys,” and under the
control of district officers and patrol offi-
cers, whose organisation, like the police,
is to be based on New Guinea. There
will be a permanent head and an anthro-
pologist from New Guinea, who will be
a stranger in a strange land, with about
as much insight into the Australian native
mind, if he depends on his island train-
ing, as an Eskimo would be expected to
have into the mentality of Lancashire or
Tatarbazavdjik. Every type of native is
not suited to be a policeman, and what
the policemen are needed for, anyway, it
is hard to understand. Considering num-
bers and opportunity, there is little native
crime in the N.T. of which the basis is
not interference with native rights or in-
trusion into native spheres. Wild and
semi-wild natives are much better able
to look after the civic morality of their
own people than any hybrid lot of un-
comfortably-clothed constables. If the
experiment is to go ahead, the best plan
would probably be to recruit a few of
the educated Central Queensland blacks
as a nucleus. They are much more suited
for police by temperament, apart from
their racial experience with whites, than
the Territory tribesmen. And, having a
certain amount of civilised background,
there would be no chance of their repeat-
ing the solecism of an old-time North
Queensland troop, which was discovered
breakfasting on a cut off a Chinese
prospector.
* * * *
“Milne Bay”: There is talk at Can-
berra of fortifying Port Moresby. The
place has a fine harbor, but it is off the
main road, so to speak, of any likely
invaders. Somewhere about Samarai, on
the mainland, or in the adjacent islands
is the place. Samarai is the key to China
Strait, through which all sizable ships
desiring to pass from the Western to the
Eastern Pacific must go. The narrow
strait is commanded on each side by
ideal big-gun positions, though the little
island itself need not necessarily come
into the scheme of things. There is plenty-
of shelter for shipping and good anchor-
ages between East Cape and Rogeia.


*o* Tff#
EMPIRES MILLIONS
You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is the ONLY STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONLY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
St. George’s House,
St. George’s Terrace,
Perth,
Western Australia.
o° h U^ t 2ced Y /
Doctors say that it your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will de
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure reme \
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or write
direct for particulars of this MODERN
TREATMENT.
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney
’’RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
1.4 Volt Valves.
it is anticipated that early in 1939
radio receiver manufacturers will start
with the production of receivers using
the new 1.4-volt series of valves. It
must be emphasised that care is neces-
sary in operation even more so than
with two-volt valves. The filaments of the
1.4-volt valves are necessarily more deli-
cate. The merest flick of the filament
leads on to voltage sources higher
than that of the filament requirements
will ruin the valves. With receivers of
the experimental kind this can easily
happen. If the valves don’t immediately
burn out the filament emission will suf-
fer. No doubt manufacturers will take
due precaution to ensure that there are
no trailing leads from the filaments to
be dropped carelessly across the B
batteries. The solution seems to be in
containing both filament and plate bat-
teries in a box with non-interchangcablc
plugs and sockets.
The suggestion was made to the writer
that an alternative filament lead be pro-
vided, with a series resistor to permit the
use of a two-volt accumulator. There is
no reason why this cannot be done, but
why should it be attempted? Primarily
the 1.4-volt valves are designed for dry-
cell operation, and if a two-volt accumu-
lator is to be applied, then the valves
may just as well be two-volt types. Dry-
cell operation and long life, plus con-
venience, are the advantages of the new
valves.
An interesting sidelight on small re-
ceivers for standby short-wave reception
is referred to in the current issue of
“Electronics” (U.S.A.), and the arrival
of the 1.4-volt valve makes the sugges-
tion even more attractive. During a
recent New England (U.S.A.) hurricane
great sections of the north-east were cut
off from all communication. There were
no power, no mail, no radio. In a New
Hampshire farm, however, a one-valve
battery-operated short-wave receiver
brought in, hour after hour, the prin-
cipal European short-wave stations, in-
cluding London, Paris, Berlin, Prague,
Rome and Warsaw. It is suggested that
radio manufacturers should work on the
idea of a one-valve short-wave receiver
for every home as a stand-by in case
of public emergency.
There are many radio publications
dealing extensively with small receivers
of the one- and two-valve type, and
when the 1-4-volt valves are actually
available in quantity in Australia this
Page will give detailed descriptions of
simple receivers to. run entirely from dry
cells for long periods. Such receivers
will be inexpensive and easily constructed.
Above all, they will be of great value to
the man outback. Drovers and workers
in road-construction camps have ample
use for small and easily-transportable
receivers with plug-in coils for short-
wave and broadcast reception.
DON B. KNOCK.
Radio Comment.
“R.H.A.”: A good method of reducing
the voltage output from a power pack
using a standard 385-385-volt trans-
former is to place an extra filter choke
ahead of the first filter condenser, con-
verting the filter to choke-input. Fre-
quently it is found that under low drain
conditions and where low resistance
chokes are used in place of the more
usual speaker field the output voltage is
excessive. Choke input saves wasting
power in heat in the voltage divider and
gives cooler operation of both trans-
former and rectifier and lengthens the
life of the latter. A drop as great as
100 volts may be obtained by this
method.
* * * *
“VK6WZ”: Celluloid for coil con-
struction can be taken from scraps of
clean motor-car side-curtain material to
be had for the asking at a motor-trim-
mer’s. This is usually of a thickness
suitable for coil supports, while small
chips dissolve readily in acetone or amyl
acetate to make “dope.” Thinner cellu-
loid for wrapping around receiver coils
RADIO IN DEFENCE.
A Hal Williamson picture used in N.S.W. on recruiting literature for the Militia
Signals Units. The complete installation shown is a battery-operated wireless-
telegraphy-telephony set of portable nature used in military operations. Signallers
are needed for the militia units. Intending recruits will be welcome on parade
nights at any unit orderly room.
to insulate windings may be had by
scraping the emulsion off used films.
* * * *
“Vic Parc”: Collie (W.A.) Municipal
Council is urging the authorities to recon-
sider the decision not to grant a B-class
license in the district. Councillors say
that previous applications have been
refused on the grounds that an earlier
venture in the sou’-west (at Bunbury)
failed. They contend that Collie’s pros-
perous district and potential audience of
17,000 warrant an addition to Westralia’s
existing eight commercial broadcasters.
* * * *
Radio licenses in force throughout the
Commonwealth at the end of November
numbered 1,099,272; experimenters
1963.
* * * *
“West VK”: Inexperienced experi-
menters using receiving-type tubes and
components, plug-in coils and chassis-
type construction are likely to overlook
the need for measuring equipment.
Modern exciters and transmitters look
very much like receivers, but their effi-
cient operation (and P.M.G. regulations)
call for the use of meters. A lamp in a
loop of wire cannot tell the operator
much. The small “portable” type of
multi-purpose meter popular a few years
ago is an economical means of check-
ing performance. Fitted with a cord
and plug it can be plugged into succeed-
ing stages as a transmitter is tuned up.
An alternative is the use of a reliable
0-1 milliammeter with suitable shunts
switched or plugged into the various
metering points.
Amateur Chatter.
At the Westralian W.I.A. meeting held
13/12/’3B, details were given of schedules
to be undertaken by VK6WI and
VK6BB. The institute transmitter will
operate for half an hour every Sunday
morning, commencing 7.30, on 7000 kc.
on C.W. telegraphy. These transmissions
will provide a news bulletin of division
activities, serve as code practice for
students and provide calibration from
the 7000 kc. signal. VK6WI is also oper-
ated on Wednesday evenings by the
station manager (VK6NL). VK6BB’s
schedule is for 56.744mc., a crystal-con-
trolled transmitter to be run with about
7|-watts input on speech and music
between 9 and 10.30 p.m. each Wednes-
day and Thursday (W.A. time). Antenna
will be non-directional (vertical dipole),
and reports are requested.
Advice from the R.T.’s office in Sydney
indicates that all long-term portable
licenses are to be cancelled in view of
widespread abuse of such callsigns. Too
many licensees have allowed unauthor-
ised persons to use their calls. Permis-
sion will still be granted for genuine
portable experiments, but weekly appli-
cation will have to be made for renewal
during the period of the experiments.
Nothing has been done by the writer
on 56mc. during the last three weeks,
but it is reported that several new
stations are on the band around Sydney.
From these reports it appears that the
newcomers are using obsolete gear of
the “19 transceiver” variety, with result-,
ant widespread interference in receivers.
In the U.S.A. modulated oscillators and
super-regenerative receivers are no longer
permitted on 56mc. The chief reason is
the proximity of the television bands
and the fact that in the near future
portion of the 56mc. band must be shared
with such services.
During the big blow in Sydney, the
new WBJK vertical array at VK2EM,
Killara, N.S.W., was blown down and is
now being reconstructed. The writer’s
station escaped with little damage, but
the absence of leading stations from the
band suggests thtit the gale may have
taken several beam arrays in its stride.
During the week-end of 18/12/’3B a
landline message from a ZL2 reported
the logging of VK2NO a week previously
on 56mc. in Wellington, M.L. There is
a mistake somewhere, for the writer at
that time was fniles from Sydney on the
road back from Brisbane.
Leaving Sydney is VK2JX, Peter
Adams, of the Federal W.I.A. Council.
He goes to Wellington, M.L., to take up
a business appointment. His VK gear
is being taken along, and it should not
be long before a new ZL2 call is heard
on the bands. VK2JX was responsible
for his own version of the WBJK beam,
rearranged to give' all-round coverage.
In practice the scheme worked excel-
lently, giving particularly good results on
28mc. DX.
VK2NO.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Location, Thargomindah, Queensland.
Receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-waver,
described B. 28/4/’37.
There is plenty of good reception still
to be had in the early mornings, but after
7 a.m. quantity and quality diminish.
Best 49-metre stations have been GSA,
DJC, ZRH, ZRK and one on about 48.9
metres.
On 31 metres, Ankara is to be found
with GSB, Moscow, Paris, WIXK, 2RO,
DJX and an Italian just about 31.03
metres. At 7.15 a.m. GSC starts up and
is superior now to GSB.
On 25 metres VLR3 is the best, but
RNE runs a good second.
Besides the usual stations on 19
metres there are several unrecognisable
foreigners, and on 13 metres GSJ is very
fine. At 6 p.m., GSD is stronger than
any of the regular broadcasting stations.
On Sunday nights VK2ME is among the
best, and at 10.30 p.m. the Delhi station
is now very strong.
One of the best stations on the air is
DJA from 5 p.m. onward, strength at
6.15 p.m. being almost equal to VLR3
and GSD. At times, the Calcutta station
can be heard just clear of ZBW.
American stations were good during
the early part of December, W2XE being
outstanding on 25.36 metres.
Taken all round, winter reception is
to be preferred. Then Daventry, Berlin,
Moscow and Paris can be heard well on
the news sessions during the daytime.
From the results still being obtained,
the old T.R.F. receiver is not yet worn
out after 22 months of service in various
locations. On one occasion it was
toppled out of a guard’s van. It may be
possible to design something better, but
I doubt it.
K.B.G.


LimericK
Competitions
For Each of These Competitions £5O in Prize-money
Tenth Competition
£5O PRIZES
First Prize £2O
Second Prize £lO
Twenty Other Prizes £1
Closing Date January 4.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space provided for the
purpose, cut out the whole coupon, and post to reach
"Limericks No. 10,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than January 4.
Results of this Tenth Limerick Competition will be
announced in “The Bulletin” of January 11.
Any competitor may send in as many entries as he or she
wishes for this or succeeding competitions, but each entry
must be filled in on a Limerick Coupon.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
is eligible to compete. Otherwise these competitions are open
to all, free of any entrance charge.
j TENTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
! NAME
I (In block letters)
ADDRESS
I An eccentric old person named Deare
Remarked, “/ will start the new year
By giving up shaving
{ And cycling and saving
j
Eleventh Competition
£5O PRIZES
First Prize £2O
Second Prize £lO
Twenty Other Prizes £1
Closing Date January 18.
For the Eleventh Limerick Competition the prizes are: First
Prize £2O; Second Prize £10; and 20 £l prizes.
It will close on January 18 and results will be announced in
“The Bulletin” of January 25.
This announcement will be repeated in “The Bulletin” of
January 4 and January 11, and coupons may be filled in
from those issues or from the present one.
For the Eleventh Competition, add a last line to the Limerick
in the coupon below, cut out the whole coupon and post to
“Limericks No. 11,” Box 252188, G.P.0. , Sydney.
not later than January 18.
ELEVENTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
A militia recruit had a craze
For manoeuvring in curious Ways.
At “Form Fours!” shouted tartly,
He'd somersault smartly
t
1
The Ninth Limerick Competition Results are announced on Page 29.
VK2EM, Killara, N.S.W.
The experimental station VK2EM is
owned and operated by A. F. Sutton at
Killara, N.S.W. Sutton took out his
license in 1936, and has devoted his time
to experimental work with modern equip-
ment on 56mc. Before moving to Killara
he was working from sea-level at Darling
Point, and obtained some unusual results
from that relatively poor location.
Although the transmitter used at the
time was a low-powered modulated oscil-
lator, and the receiver a simple super-
regenerator, VK2EM was heard in 1937
at R 5 by VK2ZC, of Newcastle, and suc-
ceeded in bringing in the Newcastle
station. Airline distance was approxi-
mately 70 miles, and visual range did
not play any part ip the communication.
Useful aerial design was responsible,
both stations using high-gain Bruce-type
beam arrays. At the time VK2BP was
active in Hazelbrook, N.S.W., no diffi-
culty was encountered with two-way
communication with VK2EM, though
signals then had to pass clear through
the massive steel structure of the Syd-
ney bridge.
After the change to Killara the station
was completely redesigned on modern
lines. The transmitter now in use is a
three-stage type, with e.-c. 6L6G oscil-
lator doubling in the plate from 10 to
five metres. This is capacity coupled to
an 802 buffer, and this exciter unit is
VK2EM, with himself at the controls. Left to right—lo to 80 metres
Super-Gainer with R.F. stage; 809 Class-B modulator with Regal
microphone, five-metre T.R.F. receiver, and three-stage five-metre
transmitter.
linked to two 809’s in push-pull with 50
watts input. C.W. and ’phone trans-
mission is provided for, the modulator
being a Class B system with 809’s
operating at zero bias. Audio and power
transformers are all of Gladstone high-
quality type.
The receiver in use at present is a
T.R.F. type with 956 acorn R.F. amp-
lifier, 6K7 e.-c. detector (with 76 inter-
The W8JK five-metre beam before
erection.
rupter for super-regen. operation) and 41
audio. A new receiver, a Jones 56mc.
Super-Gainer, plus 1851 R.F. stage, is
planned.
Several aerial arrays have been tested,
and the one now in use is the vertical
WBJK type illustrated. The design of
this particular array gives the advantage
of extra height without the troubles
associated with many arrays in high
winds. Althpugh VK2EM is well
screened from the south, the array puts
a maximum signal to stations in this
direction. It is a two-section type, fed
by a quarter-wave stub and 600-ohm line,
and accurately matched for resonance and
feeder termination. Being bi-directional
and possessing a fairly sharp horizontal
In the clear. The WBJK five-metre beam
array at VK2EM supported by a handy
turpentine tree.
angle, rotation is necessary, this being
done directly from the operating room,
A system of ropes and pulleys runs from
the beam to a small ship’s steering-wheel
alongside the operating table, and it is a
matter of seconds to aim the beam array
in any direction.
This experimental station compares
more than favorably in results and work-
manship with many commercial installa-
tions. Now 50 years of age, A. F. Sut-
ton served as dental officer with the
A.I.F. at Gallipoli and in France.
VK2NO.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) Can I add an extra valve to the three-
valve Go-Getter receiver, described in “Aus-
tralian Radio News,” 20/5/’33, without de-
creasing selectivity ? A six-volt accumulator
is used with a Philips eliminator. Detector
valve is a 615. (2) Would the four-valve
battery-operated receiver described B. 28/4/’37
be selective enough in Sydney with so many
high-powered stations ? —742.
(1) An R.F. stage in the form of a pre-
selector can be added before the detector.
This will call for another set of coils and
tuning condenser. A suitable valve is the 6D6,
and the stage can be wired in accordance with
any of the preselectors in the handbooks pub-
lished* by “Radio” (U.S.A.). A pentode audio
stage could be added alternatively, but this
depends upon individual audio needs. If
there is sufficient audio gain now, the R.F.
stage would be the better. (2) No; although
a fair degree of selectivity can be obtained if
the receiver is totally screened and uses a
screened aerial tuning unit such as the one
described in B. 10/8/’3B.
* * * *
By connecting the B-battery leads of my
seven-valve receiver to the 110-vofi direct cur-
rent mains I can get good reception, but there
is a loud hum. How can this be reduced if
not entirely eliminated? —741.
Needs only a filter in the D.C. mains leads.
This can consist of a 30-henry choke, rated
at 100 milliamperes, with two Bmfd. electro-
lytic condensers. The choke will be included
in the positive 110-volt lead, and the two
electrolytics connected, one before and one
after the choke. Be sure to connect the posi-
tive terminal or lead of the condensers to the
positive D.C. lead, and the can, or negative,
to the negative lead. The leads from the re-
ceiver will connect to the output from the filter.


EY
PROOf,
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
i ?*;<&**: .
■ ’J* ;
t. s m mm
I (T .^‘S,
'.&slb
i i
■ v ysS- ': " "jr-s
fc ''Wf
**
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
" LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
S. Australian Lambs.
“Ghanam”: S. Australian lambs are
earning a fine reputation at Smithfield.
Recently they took first place in the All
Australian Lamb Competition there. The
winner was T. Ridgway, of Fitzroy
River, Broughton, who tied also with
a display by Prentice and Sons, South-
brook, Darling Downs, for second place.
Muir Macfarlane, Port Lincoln, won the
third prize. In every competition since
July, S.A. has scored.
One draft of 1418 Suffolk crosses from
H. L. Miles at Wiiliup, in the s.-east,
averaged 35flb. recently at works, and
93 p.c. were graded first quality. Another
consignment of 1368 head, sired by
Southdowns on Romney-merino crosses
from R. L. Vincent’s property at Worn-
beena, averaged 401 b. ; 97 p.c. of them
were graded as Royal Downs, super
choice, the balance being all first class.
One London butcher who bought stock
from the first lamb competition of the
season wrote to the Australian Meat
Board of “his admiration for these
wonderfully finished carcasses.... they
proved most satisfactory, showing little
waste and giving every satisfaction. Of
imported lamb at this time of year, Aus-
tralian is second to none, and if London
were given a consistent supply it would
be in great demand.”
Would that somebody were able to
write the same of the bulk of lamb from
N.S.W. and some other States; beef,
too!
A Veteran Wins.
“Ek Dum”; C. E. Prell, a pioneer of
modern grazing-pasture improvement,
carried off the R.A.S. large-scale cham-
pionship this year with his Gundowringa
property, near Crookwell (N.S.W.).
The country is not naturally good. It
is cold in winter and low-carrying for
its latitude and longitude. Before he
improved it Prell’s bit of land carried
less than one sheep to the acre. The
3042 acres which used to be good for
2700 sheep in a fairly average season
now regularly feed 6270 ewes and 5300
lambs; and the grown sheep cut an
average of over 131 b. of wool per head.
Sub. clover went in first with super.,
but other grasses now are being added
to the pasture —perennial rye and cocks-
foot among them. Prell scored 592
points out of a judge’s card of 750, and
his record would have been miles ahead
of other competitors had he held a large
store of hay or silage. On that score
he was awarded only seven points out
of 80.
The second prize went to T. E. Hood,
of Tantallon, Orange. He has a 3200-
acre farm, 2770 acres under pasture-
sub. clover and super, again have the
main credit for the soil improvement.
There is 600 acres of lucerne. Over 6000
sheep ewes, lambs and hoggets are
carried, and the sale turnover every year
is 2500 fat lambs and 200 cattle.
J. N. Barrett, at Edgeroi, who was third,
depends largely on wheat and lucerne
as his staple, but his country is favored
with a normally strong winter growth of
herbage.
i
Points in Export Beef.
“Mookau”: Buyers of beef stores can
help to create the right type of export
animal by being consistent in a demand
for certain points.
The ideal chiller is at youngest possible
maturity four- and five-year-olds are
beyond the fair age limit. The animal
should have square back and top lines
and be as nearly square as possible at
the ends ; also low to the ground. Leg
beef is second-class beef. Width counts
heavily. Depth of chest usually means
good health, as does a clear eye. Ribs
must be well sprung, giving a well-fleshed
back like a table.
Evenness, symmetry, compactness,
health, youth are the essential features
of the export beast. Graziers’ associa-
tions in cattle-breeding districts could
organise community bull service for the
wiping out of the leggy undesirable types
which now predominate among outback
“Here comes a cop. Let's hide!"
cattle in particular. With stud and herd
bull prices reasonably low the present is
a good time to begin the job, particularly
as the Queensland Land Administration
Board and other authorities in the main
beef areas are eager to help stock im-
provement with leasehold and other con-
cessions.
Victorian Wheat Trials.
“J.W.”: This year’s Victorian wheat
trials were held as usual on the black
soil of the Wimmera at Longerenong
College.
Conditions are among the most favor-
able in Australia—over 10 years the
average output of Wimmera wheat land
has been 18.75 bushels per acre, and 35-
and 40-bushel crops are not uncommon.
The rainfall is 16.5 inches; more than
two-thirds of it falls in the growing
season.
About 120 acres has been set aside at
Longerenong as a wheat laboratory, and
2000 plots and stud rows are in use.
The seasonal tests in the last two years
included a wheat variety trial with six
standards and 22 new crossbreds—tests
sown on June 30 with 751 b. seed and
lcwt. super, per acre.
Though Baldmin topped a two years
average with 52 bushels, against Ghurka s
49.7, Ghurka is likely to remain the
favorite Wimmera wheat. It is flag-smut
resistant, free stripping, seasonally mid-
period to late, and gives a stocky straw,
but it is low strength in flour quality.
It is recommended again lor main sowing
both on black and red soils, together
with limited sowings of Free Gallipoli,
Baldmin and Nizam on black country,
with Ranee and Dundee added on red
soil.
This year Ghurka increased to 60 p.c.
of all sowings from 55 p.c. last year ; Free
Gallipoli from 15.4 to 18.4, Ranee 4H
from 8.9 to 10.6 p.c. Dundee fell off
from 13.9 to 4 p.c., but is coming back
to favor on the red ground.
A time test on sowing has been worked
with five plots to show the effects of early
and late sowing. Varying quantities from
451 b. to 1201 b. were used. There was a
variation of two bushels to the acre, the
heaviest seeding, 1201 b., giving 39.1
bushels on early sowing. The best early
crop (41 bushels) was off the 601 b. plant-
ing, the second-best with 901 b., but gener-
ally the divergence was only fractional.
The difference in every case was in favor
of early sowing—with a 451 b. planting,
the advantage was 5.7 bushels.
As seeding became later it was found
profitable to increase the quantity of seed
used. In the late tests—July—9olb. plant-
ing topped the score with 38.3 bushels,
and 1201 b. was second with 37'8 bushels.
The 451 b. July sowings were a minimum
of 2.6 bushels worse in yield than any
other quantity.
A grazing trial was of interest to lamb-
breeders. In 1937 a section planted with
three leading varieties, including Ghurka,
were fed off in early August and early
September, having been planted in three
seed quantities—6olb., 901 b. and 1201 b
and checked against ungrazed plots,
Free Gallipoli came out best. Its yield
held its own after grazing ; in all other
varieties in two years, falling off after
grazing was substantial—sometimes as
much as six bushels.
Manurial tests have been conducted
since 1912. The average figures show
that even on the best wheat land in the
country super, pays. The unmanured
check plots over the whole period have
given an average of 34 bushels, bumped
up to 38.7 bushels with 561 b. super., to
40.2 bushels with lcwt. super, and to
41 bushels with 2cwt. super.; in no case
has super, lcwt. plus lime or nitrate
given results as good as lcwt. super,
“straight.” Neither has farmyard
manure.
The results show clearly that it does
not pay to use any fertiliser other than
super. With wheat at 3s. bushel average
and super, at £4 3s. 7d. per ton, |cwt.
super, increased the net return per acre
average over 26 years by 10s. 6d., lcwt.
by 12s. lid. and 2cwt. by 11s. 2d.
Bencubbin’s Year.
“A.A.D.”: The substitution of Ben-
cubbin for Nabawa in the official N. S.
Wales wheat-variety recommendations
(B. 23/11 /’3B) is likely to result in a
wide demand for seed. Every entry of
Bencubbin in the R.A.S. championship
crop competitions gained pure-seed
points—lB or higher—which attests the
standard of purity of the wheat.
Bencubbin, too, demonstrated convinc-
ingly its superiority over Nabawa in these
competitions. It figured in all five sections
of the contests, 15 representative crops
giving an average yield of 37 bushels.
First and second places were gained in
Riverina, first and third in the central-
western slopes, and second in the western
area. The judges emphasised the resist-
ance of the variety to dry conditions, and
commended it as a very useful type for
the moderate-to-low rainfall areas. This
season it has shown a marked extension
in the western areas in particular, even
penetrating into sections in which
Nabawa had not been looked upon with
favor. .
Pastures at Kybybolite.
“Mouton”- Much work on pastures
has been done in s> _ e< S . Australia. The
Kybybolite Experimental Station, near
the Victorian border, has been experi-
menting for over 20 years. Originally
the land carried about half a sheep to
an acre, but by extensive and regular
topdressing and the introduction of im-
proved plants the station now feeds over
two sheep to the acre and a large dairy
herd.
The Kybybolite district is more highly
deve loped for pasture than any other
part of sA . E> c. H. Schinckel, who has
kept care f u i records, has 1600 acres on
which he maintains 4800 sheep and lambs
(Continued on page 38.)


CHOOSE THE
FOR EVERY
JOB
y
w
s/"/
k
c
MAKE TIME. .oh the
TURNS..ON STEEP HILLS V
.. ON THE STRAIGHT AWAY
ALLIS-CHALMERS
MODEL
M
r
Model “M” Crawlers for Sure-footed Traction . . .
goes where you cannot follow it . . . Ideal for
moderate-sized Farms, Tank Sinking, etc.
ONE Q’LAND OWNER OF 9 “M” TRACTORS STATES:
“For sheer dependability , robust construction and low operating
and maintenance costs the ALLIS CHALMERS M'
TRACTOR is unsurpassed. My Fleet average under one
gallon of fuel per hour on all operations
THE IDEAL TRACTOR FOR
TANK or DAM SINKING.
HeadqMarters
- House -
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
Z&gA
N-QBranch
STUPT S’
TOWNSVI Lit
ENCINIEPINO Supply C90f AUSTRALIA L TD
A MESSAGE
TO INVESTORS
For persons of moderate means,
as well as the wealthy, a Fixed
Deposit in the Rural Bank is an ex-
cellent form of investment. Interest
is paid half-yearly at a definite
rate and the money invested is
repaid in full at the end of the
specified time, or the deposit may
be renewed. Amounts from £5 up-
wards are accepted at all branches.
And an interest-bearing Fixed
Deposit in the Rural Bank is a
lawful investment for trust funds.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE - - - MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
The Rural Bank is YOUR Bank—Serving you, Serving the State
Kosciusko in Summer
Golf a Mile above Sea Level — Tennis —Trout Fishing
Horse Riding on Alpine Lakes Trail—Wonderful Scenery
A Splendid Climatic Change
u •
wxtm
W **
m
m
.
sa
gpEf.f'iffW
ife**
sir
• •••<,>
Hotel Kosciusko
17/- per day £4/4/- per week
Full Information and Reservations
N.S.W. Government Tourist Bureau
Challis House, 8 Martin Place, Sydney. Telephone: 8W4471
BOOKS AS GIFTS!
Three Delightful Novels
SWi
PAGEANT
By
G. B. Lancaster
Price, 6/6.
Postage 4d.
LANDTAKERS
By Brian Penton
Price, 7/6.
Postage 6d.
ds
And the Finest Novel of Australia
Ever Written !
Miles Franklin’s Brilliant Prize-winning Novel
“ALL THAT SWAGGER”
Winner of the 1936 S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
for Australian Literature, “All That Swagger”
has been acclaimed the real Australian story. A
brilliant work in sheer writing, planned and carried
out on a grand scale and covering one hundred
years. “All That Swagger” adds memorable
characters to Australian literature, has a stirring
dramatic quality in its story and a splendid theme.
Price 6/- (postage 5d.).
PUBLISHED BY
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth, Wellington (N.Z.) and London.


LET
ATLAS i
CARRY THE
l BURDEN )
f
Kt
Established 1808.
Investments in Australasian Securities
Exceed £1,200,000.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
BRANDALERS
S«S
m
a*
PENS
*
nt
gu
ran
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAUKK M CO, Ltd, BIKMLHGHAIt, ENG
JJuffyzille&rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
TOBACCO, TOBACCO, TOBACCO
Smokers, Look —
No Increase in Prices.
DO YOU WANT GOOD VALUE
AND QUALITY?
Then figure on these beautiful smoking blends
that give that extra satisfaction and coolness
which makes all the difference. Made from the
finest Empire-grown leaf.
We Make It Good—Smokers Make It
Popular.
At practically half the price you are paying
elsewhere. ORDER NOW! Direct from the
manufacturer to you. . •
With orders over £t in all lines, a Briar or
Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch, Oigarette
Lighter or Holder is included.
PIPE TOBACCO & FINE CUT.
Per lb.
First crop, mild . . . . . . 6/3
All British, mild . . . . 6/3
Riverhead Gold, medium . . 6/3
Old Peter, medium . . . . 6/3
Cavendish, strong . . . . 6/3
Beech Nut, medium . . . . 6/9
Africa, mellow and mild . . 6/9
Soldiers’ Own, mild . . . . 7/3
Normandie, medium . . . . 7/9
Winning Post, medium . . . . 8/-
Three Bells, strong . . . . 8/-
Bird’s Eye, medium . . . . 8/*
Latakia, in pipe only . . . . 10/-
White Lodge, medium . . . . 10/-
White Lodge, light .. ..11/-
Barlock Flake, light and dark .'. 8/6
Cahills, medium . . . . 10/9
Union Leader, medium . . . . 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium . . . . 11/-
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only . . 8/-
Special Heavy Extra, pipe only. . 6/-
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild .. .. 7/6
“Skipper,” medium . . . . 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong .. .. 7/6
“Three Sailors” . . . . 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” . . . . 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks . . 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks . . 6/6
“P.M.” Dark Plug . . . . 6/6
Zig Zags .. .. 5 for 1/-
Postage paid ip N.S.W. and Queensland.
6d. per pound extra to other States.
COMBINED GROWERS’
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
12 COMMERCIAL RD„ VALLEY, BRISBANE.
all the year round. Originally the farm
carried 1000 ewes and 200 lambs.
Schinckel estimates that one ton of super,
will maintain pasture at a high level
on 20 acres. The increase in carrying
capacity is 2j sheep to the acre, or 45
sheep to the ton (£4) of super.
Near Hynam, which joins Kybybolite,
W. Staude produced 100 bales of wool
from 800 acres. Estimating the bales to
weigh 3001 b. net, this represents 351 b. of
wool to the acre. This farm before the
pastures were developed carried approxi-
mately one sheep to the acre, or 91b. of
wool. Allowing lewt. of super, to the
acre, this means an increase of 5201 b.
of wool to the ton of manure.
These results were not obtained until
the pastures had been sown down several
years and regularly topdressed. .Sub.
clover and Wimmera rye have proved
the most successful pastures, as usual.
The rainfall is about 23 inches, chiefly
during winter and spring. Annuals must
be grown, because perennials would not
live through the long, dry summer.
Native Grasses Flourish.
“Zedo”: Native grasses are regaining
some of their popularity, as it is recog-
nised that they are naturally drought-
resistant.
The Queensland Agricultural Depart-
ment reports that Curly Mitchell is in
demand. But, though Queensland is the
greatest Mitchell-grass State, most of the
seed has to come from N.S.W. Blue
grass, too, is becoming more popular,
again through N.S.W. seed.
There should be more chance of suc-
cess if local seed were obtainable. Every
grass shows considerable variations
according to the seasonal nature of its
home country. There is as much differ-
ence between some of the Mitchells as
there is between Mt. Barker and Dwal-
ganup sub. clover.
Tomatoes from Morocco.
“J. Want”: Growers are showing in-
terest in Moroccan tomatoes, particularly
the unstaked early Range de Marmande
tried out by John Douglass, of the N. S.
Wales Agricultural Department.
Most of the Morocco varieties are of
small cluster type. The R. de M. is an
early-maturing Chinese type which will
pollinate under varying weather con-
ditions. Planted in the warmest parts of
N.S.W. North Coast in recent unfavorable
winters, it has given particularly heavy
crops.
The fruit is excellent in type, but so far
no tests have been made for disease resist-
ance ; and since R. de M. has been
confined to the North Coast, where it is
grown unstaked, there is no certainty
that it will stand up to heavy winters in
other parts or that it will be successful
in glasshouses.
Scientific Weed Control.
“Marrar”: The coolamon skeleton
weed “specific” (B. 9/11 /*3B) is revealed
as a home-made manurial mixture and
not a plant destroyer. Used as a stimu-
lant to the sown crop to smother the
weed it consists of 121 b. blood and bone
and lewt. wood ashes and farmyard
manure per acre, spwn through a drill.
Investigators are not impressed with the
formula, but it is to be submitted to a
series of field trials at Wagga Farm.
Great importance is attached to four
years of scientifically-planned and ex-
haustive experiments at Wagga in fur-
nishing authentic data of skeleton-weed
control, now on the point of completion.
The results establish that a supply of
nitrogen is of paramount importance in
effective control of the weed.
Barley Records.
“Ager”: The Tasmanian Barley
Growers’ Association marketed a record
crop of 153,000 bushels last year. All
barley averaged slightly over 4s. Id. Best
malting went to ss. per bushel.
It was graded as follows:
Best malting barley, bright: Al, 17,586
bushels; A 2, 11,046; A 3, 681.
Malting barley, discolored: 81, 23,739;
82, 41,760.
Feed barley: FI, 52,080; F 2, 5982.
About 65 p.c. was graded malting
barley.
Members receive a first dividend on
receipt of barley into store. This year
dividends ran: 3s. a bushel on all malt-
ing barley, 2s. on sound feed. Is. 6d.
on damaged feed. Final realisation was:
Al, 55.; A 2, 4s. 4d. ; A 3, 4s. ; 81,
4s. Bd.; 82, 4s. 3d.; FI, 3s. Bd.; F 2,
2s. Bd.
Last year average price realised by
growers ss. o|d. The year before
it worked out at 3s. 2^d.
Several growers had yields as high as
100 bushels per acre.
Beating Bracken.
“Ben Boyd”: The bracken-eradication
advice given by G. F. Young (B.
7/12/’3B) might be applied on the far
N.S.W. South Coast, where much former
grazing and dairying land is monopolised
by the pest.
In these districts, from Moruya to
Eden, there are instances of men buying
at 20s. to 255. an acre, clearing the fern
and laying down improved pasture to
make it worth £lO to £l5.
Ploughing where possible, growing a
crop of oats and then sowing to rye
grass, cocksfoot and clovers has proved
the most successful method.
Wattle Farming.
“Mulyan”: The wattle-bark season
lasts from the beginning of December
till March in the Lithgow-Sunny Corner
area (N.S.W.). One contractor dispatches
40 tons a year to {Sydney. The current
price is £4 15s. a ton. Bark is stripped
in patches in other places, including S.A.
and W.A., but most of it comes from self-
grown trees, and when they are cut out
the industry is gone. S. Africa has about
300,000 acres of wattle plantations, from
which large quantities of bark have been
exported annually to this epuntry, where
the seed was originally obtained.
Wattle farming should have an im-
portant place in every State of the Com-
monwealth. The trees need no attention
after the ground has been ploughed and
planted. They grow well on waste
ground along creeks and gullies. An
acre carries 500 trees, planted between
9ft. to 10ft. apart each way; some
growers plant as close as 6ft. about
1200 to the acre.
Trees yield from 301 b. to 601 b. of wet
bark, which loses about a third of its
weight in drying—an average of 10 tons
of dried bark from 750 trees.
With proper management there is little
waste in the properly cared for wattle-
tree. The blossom is saleable. The wood
—light, soft and elastic—is used for cask-
staves, spokes and felloes, axe- and pick-
handles, and for other purposes requir-
ing a tough and durable grain. Bentwood
furniture is also made with it, and the
dry wood is an excellent fuel. The tree
also yields a palatable gum, used in con-
fectionery. At one time the raw gum
was sold in Sydney shops.
Trees are stripped when they are five
or six years old. Some planters strip only
every third tree at one harvest and re-
plant the sections as they are cleared. A
greater yield is got off the second and
third harvests, when the trees are older.
When stripping is finished, the planter
sells faulty timber for firewood.
The trees arc grown from seed, which
must be put in water and brought to the
boil, then left till the water has cooled
before sowing. The young trees are easy
to transplant, but the best way is to drop
the seed in the plantation rows.
Get Rid of Flies.
“Corricdale": House and stable flies
travel only two miles at most. If neigh-
bors co-operated in clearing out breeding-
grounds—manure piles and rotten car-
casses—there would be little fly worry on
farms or stations. Dispose of manure
from stables, pigsties, cowyards, etc.,
every six days. Manure can be harrowed
finely over pasture, but it is best placed
in a closed concrete or wooden bin,
where it can heat for about ten days.
Each lot may be covered with news-
paper, with fine earth on top. The pro-
cess gives the best fertiliser known.
Animal urine poured over it improves
the manure and kills maggots.
Rotting, flyblown carcasses or pieces of
meat should be burnt or dusted with
borax. House flies breed only in fly-
blown meat. Also, they need to feed off
meat to fertilise their eggs.
“J.W.”: Queensland Agricultural De-
partment has issued a warning against
wild sunflower, which is seen all through
districts from the Maranoa to the coast.
Normally stock will not touch it, but
tackle it when feed is scarce. It pro-
duces a condition like pneumonia, and
it was found easy to poison stock with
comparatively small quantities.
“F.U.F.”: The lambs displayed by the
Australian Meat Board at the Glasgow
Exhibition were grown by R. E. Burges,
of Hunting Lodge, Meckering (W.A.).
Burges established the first Southdown
Stud in W.A., and the lambs were bred
from Southdown rams and long-wool
merino cross ewes. The pioneer Burges
followed hard on the heels of Lieut. Dale,
who in 1931 led a party across the ranges
and established the York agricultural dis-
trict—the first inland settlement in W.A.
The original York testate, Tipperary, is
still in the hands of the Burges family.
“Nabawa”: The new wheats evolved
by Dr. W. L. Waterhouse (B. 23/11 /’3B)
are attracting attention in the N.S.W.
north-west, mainly for their high resist-
ance to stem rust. That character in
these newcomers has overshadowed the
important consideration of baking
quality, of which nothing has been heard.
There is a great variation in the two
Fedwebs. One is of quite good flour
strength, about equal to Florence, and in
the premium class. The other is distinctly
weak, and on a par with the banned
Free Gallipoli. Farmers 'should dis-
criminate as to which they grow.
“A.A.D.”: The Agricultural Depart-
ment advises farmers in the N.S.W. wheat-
belt to sow more oats. There are 10 recom-
mended varieties which supply all the
needs of varying conditions and purposes.
Seven of these, including Sunrise, Belar,
Buddah, Mulga, Gidgee, Burke and
Lampton, have been produced by J. T.
Pridham, of Cowra Farm. These have
displaced all introduced varieties but
Algerian, Fulghum and White Tartarian.
Palestine is the latest discard. Belar is
classed as the great all-purpose oat, and
Burke has been advanced for grain as
well as grazing in the outer drier areas.
“Namoi”: Noel Barrett, of Edgeroi,
north-west N.S.W., this season tried out
the first all-bulk harvester made in Aus-
tralia. The combination is an auto-header
with a 50-bushel grain box which empties
direct into a bulk motor-truck. As the
truck is filled the wheat is delivered to
the railway siding and loaded direct into
bulk trucks by means of a blower
operated from an 8-h.p. baby tractor.
The header driver and motor-truck driver
did as much work as seven men under
the usual method of bagging and
emptying the grain.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to cure itch in a horse’s tail and mane
caused apparently by an insect living on the
roots of the hair? —St9ol.
Itch may be due to mange or lice, but the
commonest form —coastal or Queensland itch
—is a type of eczema, the exact cause of which
is not known. Applications of waste sump oil,
sometimes broken down 50 p.c. with kero-
sene, act as a palliative but not as a cure.
Bathing with disinfectant such as 5 p.c. milk
oil fluid or Jeyes’s fluid gives relief, but the
condition continues to recur. When using ex-
ternal applications, the animal should be given
casily-digcstiblc, nourishing foods and placed
on a laxative diet for the next week or two.
* * * *
(1) When should l start to feed young duck-
lings? (2) What to feed to them? (3) What
water is needed in a run ? Must there be a
swimming pool? (4) Best method of covering
at night in Central Queensland? —SIBOS.
(1) Give no food until about 24 hours after
hatching. Before that give coarse sand and
drinking water. (2) From two days to four
weeks, pollard 101 b., maizcmcal 81b., dried but-
termilk 21b., bonemcal Jib., fine salt 2oz.
Moisten the amount required immediately be-
fore feeding. Give several meals daily—as much
as the ducklings will clean up in about half an
hour. (3) Do not provide a pool, but clean,
cool, fresh drinking water day and night. Lack
of water is the cause of most duckling losses.
(4) Ducklings are easily brooded in any suit-
able box with ample straw on the bottom, no
covering being needed during summer. The box
must be large enough to permit of having a
water vessel placed in it, or it should be open
to allow the ducklings access to water.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
DISLOCATED ELBOW
LED TO NEURITIS
Could Not Straighten Her
Arm.
Four months ago this woman dislocated her
left elbow. Although the elbow was properly
set, she developed neuritis and could not
straighten her arm. She was ordered to take
Kruschen—with the happy result described in
this letter:
“I had an accident four months ago, and
my elbow was seriously dislocated. Fortu-
nately, it was set right there and then, but
afterwards I could not straighten the arm
to its full extent. It was X-rayed, and the
surgeon specialist told me I was inclined to
be rheumatic. 1 was ordered to take Kruschen
Salts —one teaspoonful in a glass of hot water
on waking. Now I am getting along famously.
The pain in my elbow is better, and daily
I am able to extend the arm more easily.”—•
(Mrs.) P.
Rheumatic conditions are the result of an
excess of uric acid in the body. Two of the
ingredients of Kruschen Salts have the power
of dissolving uric acid crystals. Other in-
gredients assist Nature to expel these dissolved
crystals through the natural channels.
THE
lIAIITCIVNSUrance
UHI IC U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The United is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. 0. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
INSIDE
AND OUTSIDE
AUSTRALIA
rT
WWB
Carry
bank
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
419
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
R.S.A.: Possibly within the next 10 years,
T.F.: Yes, “awfully cute” P.D.N.:
“I don’t know what to do with this.” Neither
do we G.W.: You have a remarkable fund
of Biblical, classical, foreign and other quota-
lions, but they don’t make a yarn... .J.T.8.:
Not even a chuckle F.L.G.: The spring
gets a lot of people like that C.D.S.:
“Speedhog” collided with the bottom of the
w.p.b L.C.E.: Try something lighter
B. Nothing in that batch... .A.S.: Du 11....
C. Not far off A.M.M.: Under-
nourished M.M.: And yours is thin
H.A.P.: It’s got nothing new to say W.F.:
You have our wishes J.S.: “Dust. Dust
within and dust without.” Yes, just dust
V.L.T.W.: The red rooster didn’t go on our
Christmas menu R.W.V.: Not for us
R.C.: Nothing to it W.L.: Thin, but call
again M.W.Q.: Medical department is in-
specting throat “choked with syllables un-
broken”... .E.C.: “Beware” was an excellent
title S.G.M.: Don’t doubt that you can
“supply one each week”; but must you?
Condense it to eight lines and try it
on “Smoke-0h”... .G.J.W.: The last quatrain’s
all right, but it’s a gloomy production
L.F.8.: “Where the Lachlan Waters Flow”
won’t get in till the Lachlan waters flow
backwards; but you’re young J.A.S.: What’s
an “unjovial cup”? Cocoa?... .W. 0.0.:
Notice you’ve literally given it hell, but it still
misses J.M.R.: It would take a Homer to
do justice to the day when “Stevens spoke
fair words to Lang”... .Don: “Officers of
Ours” cashiered H.R.R.: Just “Clouds.”
T.I.P: Christmas comes but once a year,
but Christmas poems twice a day M.R.:
Try it elsewhere S.C.: See if Billy Hughes
will sing it R.G.: “But I never did like
Tubby.” Tut! L.E.0.: Would a bellbird
“sound his gong” (a) if he knew what a dinner-
gong sounds like, ( b ) if you didn’t need him
to for the sake of rhyme? F. 8.: Patch
“Old Cloes” and resubmit 8.G.: It’s been
done 8,765,432 times before... .G. 8.: You’ve
recooked the cadences of Wordsworth’s
“Cuckoo” R.H.A.: “Destiny Row” is the
nearest E.K.: Pretty; that’s all W.H.J.:
Sea-chanty with a touch of mal de mer
D. O’C.: You’re going to have a deuce of a
job to be at Mount Cook and in Hamilton at
the same time... .M.E.8.: We don’t reprint....
J.G.: This is the wrong number for verses
trying to rhyme “’phone” and “home”
P.K.: Lord luv “A Duck!”... .F.8.A.: The
line is correct.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.S.: Didn’t fancy your abo. who ate the
Chinese c00k.... W.W.: The idea is old and
the drawing p00r... .F.R.: Stop borrowing your
gags D.G.: Lady cyclist now pedalling her
way home H. 8.: Shoot the stocxricier with
the shrunken face L.T.: Not exchanging a
cheque for any of that bunch A.R.W.:
Work is getting better, but you still have a
long journey ahead of y0u....H.C.: Looks
like something a small boy would chalk on a
footpath P.D.: We suspect that the fat
fellow is Stevens, but we can’t recognise any of
his cobbers... .N.L.: Yes, you bear the same
initials as Norman Lindsay S.J.: That de-
crepit effort was wheeled into the office tomb.
R.W.B.: Linework is splintery, and the
wheeze is twoscore years 01d....M.N.: Grow-
ing a little weary of kerosene-and-fire-extin-
guisher gag F.M.L.: Did you soak that
wash drawing in a mud puddle before sending
it along? AJ.: Don’t want any insane asylum
jokes, thank y0u....N.8.: A lot of excite-
ment about something that can’t be dis-
covered in the drawing E.H.: You’ve used
a fine expanse of Bristol board to no good
purpose T.H.: We would prefer that you
employed your idle moments otherwise
R.E.: Not much mirth in it P.P.: Impos-
sible to tell from the cartoon whether you are
for or against K.D.: Suggest you devote
the whole of 1939 to study.
JOHN HUNTER
BY J.H.M. ABBOTT.
IN the celebrations with which 1938
marked Australia’s 150th birthday
the memory of one man who had
much to do with this country’s begin-
nings was strangely neglected.
Captain John Hunter, R.N., command-
ing officer of H.M.S. Sirius during her
Australian career and afterwards Gov-
ernor of New South Wales between 1795
and 1800, was little more than a figure, a
theatrical super, one of the crowd, an
“also ran” in the pageantry which had to
do with the establishment of British settle-
ment on these shores. He deserved a
good deal more notice than he got, for
none of the earlier Governors had a
harder row to hoe than his, and although
Downing-street rather unfairly reckoned
his administration a failure it wasn’t alto-
gether such when the circumstances come
to be considered.
Hunter was a Scots sailor who had
served under Rodney, to that exacting
admiral’s satisfaction. When he was
chosen as second-in-command to Phillip
all the navy knew the latter had got a
good man. The first charts of Port Jack-
son and Broken and Botany bays were
his, and he did a good deal of inland ex-
ploration also. By a voyage to the Cape
of Good Hope in September, 1788, he
saved the new colony from actual star-
vation, and when the Sirius was wrecked
at Norfolk Island 18 months later his
character as a seaman was fully vindi-
cated by a court-martial after his return
to England in 1791.
When Phillip went home on leave, and
subsequently resigned the Governorship,
Hunter was appointed to succeed him,
and arrived in Sydney in September, 1795.
Between Phillip’s departure in 1792 and
Hunter's arrival, the colony had been
fully exploited by the officers of the
N.S.W. Corps during the Lieutenant-
Governorship of their C. 0., Major Grose.
The new Governor found that he had
not only to administer a starving and for-
gotten province but also to protect it
from the depredations of the only men
to whom he could turn for support in his
Government.
Grose had permitted the growth of a
system of trade in which his officers held
quite unjustified monopolies, and as the
principal article of this commerce was
rum it is easy to grasp Hunter’s diffi-
culties.
“Here iniquity abounds,” wrote the
London Missionary Society’s refugees
from Tahiti, “and those outward gross
sins which in Europe would render a
person contemptible in the public eye,
and obnoxious to the civil law, are be-
come fashionable and familiar—adultery,
fornication, theft, drunkenness, extortion,
violence and uncleanness of every kind.”
One of the first and foremost of the
new Governor’s opponents was John
Macarthur. Macarthur left nothing un-
done to thwart his efforts, or no word
unsaid that could prejudice the Colonial
Office against him.
Anonymous letter-writers abounded.
Against one Hunter protests to the Duke
of Portland —“Let me live upon bread and
water with a pure and unpolluted con-
science, a fair and respectable character,
in preference to rolling in wealth ob-
tained by such infamous, such shameful,
such ignominious means as this letter-
writer alludes to.”
There is a story of the old seaman
told by Dr. Lang in his History. One
of the anonymous letters was sent back
to Hunter by the Duke of Portland with-
out comment, and one day the Governor
showed it to an officer who was dining
with him. “You will surely notice this?”
said the guest. “No,” Hunter replied.
“The man has a family, and I don’t want
to ruin them.”
The worst that may be said of Gov-
ernor Hunter is that he was too much of
a gentleman for many of those he
governed.
“F.S.”: On all appropriate official oc-
casions the Dunstan Government loudly
asseverates its belief in culchaw for the
people. How much consideration culture
would get in Victoria if it were left
to the politicians may be judged from the
experience of the Nat. Gallery. Accord-
ing to director J. S. MacDonald, the ac-
commodation is bad, the lighting is shock-
ing and out of the £7OO provided by the
State for contingencies £250 goes in pay-
ments to models ; there is not enough left
for buying frames for pictures. And there
might be no pictures if a certain Alfred
Felton had not left the institution a quar-
ter of a million out of his private pocket.
* * * *
Perth Mint continues to do fair busi-
ness as a buyer of old jewellery, mostly
gold coins, chains, rings, brooches and
watchcases. The amount paid out on
account of this year’s purchases, which
included two trinkets bartered by Deem-
ing for cement at a Southern Cross store,
and a gold nugget alleged to have been
one of the first waterbagful specked by
Paddy Hannan at Kalgoorlie, is round
£13,000.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Every Razor '
Fully Guaranteed.
“BENGALL” RAZORS
Will I,ui
fbt IV or*.
The Barber’s Friend.
Full Hollow-grround Blade.
NEARLY 200 YEARS OLD.
Obtainable jrom All Wholesale
and Retail Stores. ’
1764
__ Combining
all the latest improvements.
File-cut and grimpted for firm handling.
Specially
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Journalist, Sydney, will undertake revision of
stories, articles, plays and novels; moderate
fee. —1914.
Young man, Sydney, secretarial exp., organ-
ising ability, good approach, trustworthy, refs.,
requires position.—l9l6.
Portraits of Australian authors; must be in
good condition and suitable for reproduction.—
1912.
To get in touch with practical miner with
small sluicing plant; gold, , New England
(N.S.W.) old field.
Whereabouts of Mrs. Charlotte Alice Mc-
Gregor Chong, who is entitled to an interest
in a deceased estate. (Reply to A. S. Boulton,
Lane, Rex and Co., 12 O’Connell-street, Syd-
ney.)
To buy Beyond the City Gates, by Jack
Moses.—l 939.
Information Sought.
What is “reductio ad absurdum” in logic?
—1925.
The method of disproving a thesis by pro-
ducing something that is both obviously deduc-
ible from it and obviously contrary to admitted
truth, or of proving one by showing that its
contrary involves a consequence similarly
absurd. A reductio ad absurdum of the
theory that the less one eats the healthier one
is would be “consequently, to eat nothing at all
gives one the best possible health.” The
proof by reductio ad absurdum is the form
often used by Euclid, e.g., in I. vi, where the
contrary of the thing to be proved is assumed
and shown to lead to an absurdity.
* * * *
(1) From whom is the reigning family of
Tunis descended? (2) When and how did it
become a French protectorate? (3) Area? (4)
European population ? (5) Native popula-
tion ?—1938.
(1) The reigning family of Tunis, occupants
of the throne since 1705, descend from Hus-
sein ben Ali, commonly believed to be a native
of the Isle of Crete, who made himself master
of the country, acknowledging, however, the
suzerainty of the Sultan of Turkey. (2) After
the French invasion of the country in 1881,
the Treaty of Kasr-es-Said placed Tunis under
the protectorate of France. (3) About 48,300
square miles, including a portion of the Sahara.
(4) According to the 1936 census, the total
European population was 213,205, including
106,068 French (exclusive of the army of occu-
pation) and 94,289 Italians. (5) 2,395,108, of
whom 2,335,623 were Arabs.
He * 3 *
1 have been told of the existence of an in-
visible ink the writing from which can be ren-
dered legible by the aid of a pair of specially-
made spectacles. If correct, name of a firm
of opticians which could supply both items? —
1878.
Have never heard of such an ink, and if it
exists leading Sydney opticians cannot supply.
There are many invisible inks in existence
which are rendered visible by chemical agents or
by heat. Thus, ammonia applied to writing
done with a solution of copper sulphate will
turn the letters blue. When the am-
monia volatilises the writing will disappear,
but may be revived by repeating the process.
Another ink that will show bluish-green when
heat is applied, but invisible when cold, is
made by dissolving cobalt in diluted spirits of
salt. s'
* He * *
A few particulars concerning painter John
Longstaff ? —1927.
Born March 10, 1862, at Clunes (Vic.), he
was educated at the local State school, and
won the first travelling scholarship given by
the Victorian Government in 1897 for painting
“Breaking the News.” He has been an ex-
hibitor at the Paris Salon since 1891, and the
Royal Academy since 1893. His pictures in-
clude “Burke and Wills at Cooper’s Creek,”
“The Sirens,” “The Lady in Black” and
numerous portraits, including King Edward
VII. and Queen Alexandra in Sydney National
Gallery, Henry Lawson and knights Frederick
Darley, Edward Knox and John MacFarland.
He has won the Archibald Prize four times,
is trustee of the National Gallery, Melbourne,
and a foundation member of the Australian
Academy of Art.
* * * *
How many prints can be taken from the nega-
tive of a motion-picture film, and how many
are usually taken ? How many prints are gener-
ally taken for the Australian market? —1943.
From an original negative, an almost un-
limited supply of prints may be taken, pro-
vided the negative is kept in perfect condition
and handled with care. As a general practice,
300 to 500 prints are taken for the United
States and more for other parts, the actual
numbers depending on the requirements of the
countries concerned. In some countries, such
as Australia, a second negative, known as a
“violet negative,” is imported, and the requi-
site number of prints is made locally. In Aus-
tralia, the number of prints for a feature film
ranges from six to 12, the average being nine.
* * * *
If my son takes a degree in economics at
Sydney University, and does not follow up the
banking career for which he is intended, in
what other capacity would he find the degree
useful ? —1859.
An increasing number of business firms re-
cruit young graduates in economics as trainees
for executive positions. Candidates for trainee
posts must be young men of good general
qualifications, and a few years of experience in
business or official life arc necessary in addition
to the economics degree. A man whose ex-
perience had been obtained in a bank would
be well recommended by that fact. There are
also opportunities for men with the economics
degree in the Commonwealth Public Service.
The Commonwealth Public Service Board takes
in a number of graduates from the Australian
universities each year. There are also oppor-
tunities in other branches of official life. Your
best course would be to call at the office of
the University Appointments Board, Sydney,
for fuller information.
* * * *
When were the following Sydney Great Pub-
lic Schools opened: (1) The King’s School,
(2) Sydney Grammar School, (3) Newington
College, (4) Sydney Church of England Gram-
mar School, (5) Scots College, (6) St. Joseph’s
and (7) St. Ignatius, Riverview ? —1790.
(1) 1832. (2) Formally opened in 1857 under
its present name, but it dates back under
another name to 1835. (3) In 1863 at Newing-
ton on Parramatta River; moved to its present
site at Stanmore in 1880. (4) 1889. (5) 1893.
(6) 1882. (7) 1889.
* * * *
How many representatives are elected from
the various States to the House of Reps., and
has the member for the Northern Teritory a
vote ? —1947.
N.S.W. 28, Vic. 20, Q’land 10, South Aus.
6, West Aus. 5, Tas. 5. In addition, one repre-
sentative of the Northern Territory is elected
to attend and participate in debates without
having the right to vote except on a motion
for the disallowance of any ordinance of the
Northern Territory or an amendment of any
such motion.
* * * *
From whom could I obtain building plans
for a small outboard motor-boat? —1891.
Modem Mechanix Publishing Co. has pub-
lished How to Build Twenty Boats, which in-
cludes an outboard motor-boat, cruisers, duck,
sail and row boats. Price is 3s. 10d., post free
from Dymock’s, 424 George-street, Sydney. If
not suitable, submit full details to W. D. Bailey,
naval architect, 7 Barrack-street, Sydney.
* * * *
Where and when was the ship Ly-ee-Moon
wrecked, and how many lives were lost? —1937.
Off Cape Green, during a fine night, on May
30, 1886; 76 lives were lost. She was said to
have been recklessly navigated close to the
shore.
* * * *
(1) Where and how to apply for a position in
the Sydney Central District Ambulance Ser-
vice? (2) Do ambulance officers receive award
wages and conditions? (3) Are appointments
difficult to obtain? (4) What credentials or
certificates are necessary? —l944.
(1) Apply to the secretary, Central District
Ambulance Service, Railway-square, Sydney.
(2) Yes. (3) No, provided there is a vacancy
and the applicant is suitable. (4) An applicant
must hold a St. John Ambulance first-aid certifi-
cate and produce satisfactory credentials as
to character, as well as a medical certificate.
* * * »
(1) How is the lubrication of the crank bear-
ings effected in the B.S.A. 600-c.c. motor-cycle ?
(2) Type of bearings used on this machine?
(3) Name and address of Brisbane agents? —
1716.
(1) The system is called “dry-sump lubrica-
tion,” the oil being pumped from the tank
through all the bearings and drained into the
crankcase, from where it is pumped into the
reserve tank and again circulated. (2) Big-end
and connecting rod, roller; drive side, ball-
race; timing side, plain. (3) C. Crowley and
Co., Ltd., 474 Ann-street, Brisbane.
* * * •
(1) What is the h.p. of a double-acting two-
cylinder steam engine of the following specifi-
cations: Boiler pressure 120 lb. per sq. in.,
stroke s ft., area of each piston 380 sq. in.,
r.p.m. 25 ? (2) How is this figure obtained ?
1536.
(1) Cannot say with certainty unless the mean
effective pressure is known, this being obtained
from an indicator diagram. Assuming this
pressure to be 601 b. per sq. in., the h.p. will be
345. (2) Divide “PLAN” by 33,000, where “P”
is the mean effective pressure, “L” length of
stroke in feet, “A” area of both ends of piston
in sq. in., “N” strokes per minute. There being
two cylinders, multiply the answer by 2.
Thus 60 X 5 X3BO X 2 X 25 = 5,700,000,
which divided by 33,000 = 172. There being
two cylinders, the h.p. will be approx. 345.
(1) Where and when was the Fellowship of
Australian Writers founded? (2) Who were its
first officials? (3) Names of (a) presidents and
(b) secretaries since establishment? (4) When
did the Fellowship amalgamate with the
Writers’ Association ? —1930.
(1) At a meeting of writers in Sydney on
November 23, 1928, presided over by Mary
Gilmore. (2) J. Le Gay Brereton (president),
Mary Gilmore, Walter Jago, Steele Rudd, F. J.
Broomfield, George Portus and S. A. Rosa
(vice-presidents), Marjorie Quinn (secretary)
and Arthur Crocker (treasurer). (3) (a) J. le
Gay Brereton, Walter Jago, George Mackaness,
T. Inglis Moore, Flora Eldershaw, Frank Dalby
Davison and Bartlett Adamson; ( b ) Marjorie
Quinn, Frank Clune, Will Lawson, W. E. Fitz
Henry and Catherine Lindsay. (4) February
16, 1938.
* * * *
(1) How many women police are there in
the N.S.W. police force? (2) What are their
duties? —1931.
(1) Eight. (2) They give particular attention
to the welfare of women and young girls, and
in many instances have rescued young women
from downfall. They meet country trains
coming to Sydney and warn girls whose actions
render this course necessary. At functions
such as the Royal Agricultural Show, where
thousands of people assemble, they give pro-
tection to lost children. They render assistance
to the detective and plainclothes police in the
investigation of crimes against women. They
are responsible for bringing many juvenile
offenders before the Children’s Court, ar-
range in other cases for the offenders to be
placed in homes without the necessity for court
proceedings, and make inquiries concerning
girls rpissing from home. Escorting female
prisoners forms part of their duties, as does
attention to persons posing as fortune-tellers.
* * * *
(1) What anthologies did the late Bertram
Stevens edit? (2) When did he die? —1924.
(1) An Anthology of Australian Verse (1906),
Bush Ballads (1908), The Australian Birthday
Book (1908), The Golden Treasury of Aus-
tralian Verse (1909), A Book of Australian
Verse for Boys and Girls (1915), and The
Bulletin Book of Humorous Verses and Reci-
tations (1920). With George Mackaness he
edited The Children’s Treasury of Australian
Verse (1913) and Selections from the Australian
Poets (1913). He died on Sydney on February
14, 1922.
* * * *
/ am engaged upon a study of the writers
and artists who have contributed to The Bulle-
tin since its establishment. Can you furnish a
list of books and other references which will
give me biographical and bibliographical details
concerning them; also, books containing anec-
dotal references? —1921.
Naturally, you will find the files of The
Bulletin and the “Lone Hand,” which can be
seen at either the Mitchell Library, Sydney,
or the Bulletin office, indispensable.
Volume I of the “Lone Hand” (May-Nov.,
1907), which contains J. F. Archibalds The
Genesis of The Bulletin” in serial form, and
the Jubilee Number (January 29, 1930) of The
Bulletin are useful sources of reference, ror
a start you should consult the following works
(others will come under your notice as your
studies progress): The Bulletin Story Book,
Australian Short Stories, edited by George
Mackaness, and An Australian Story Book,
edited by Nettie Palmer; An Outline of Aus-
tralian Literature, by H. M. Green, Australian
Writers, by Desmond Byrne, The Development
of Australian Literature, by H. G. Turner and
Alex. Sutherland, An Introduction to the Study
of Australian Literature, by Zora Cross, Aus-
tralian Literature, by C. Hartley Grattan, Modern
Australian Literature, by Nettie Palmer, and
Essays in Australian Fiction, by Barnard Elder-
shaw; A Bibliography of Australasian Poetry
and Verse, by Percival Serle, and the bio-
graphical notes in anthologies edited by
Bertram Stevens, George Mackaness, Walter
Murdoch, Percival Serle, A. G. Stephens, Alex.
Sutherland, J. J. Stable, Douglas Sladen, George
Barton, “Banjo” Paterson and others; Mac-
leod of the Bulletin, by Mrs. William Macleod,
and Hop of the Bulletin by Dorothy J. Hop-
kins ; Victor Daley, Henry Kendall, Chris
Brennan and The Red Pagan, by A. G.
Stephens, Those Were the Days, by George A.
Taylor, The Romantic ’Nineties, by Arthur W.
Jose, and Henry Lawson by His Mates; The
Australian Encyclopedia, Fred Johns s Notable
Australians and Who’s Who in Australia also
recent editions of the last-named edited by
Errol Knox and J. A. Alexander, and Diction-
ary of Australasian Biography, by Phillip Men-
nell; The Story of Australian Art, by William
Moore, Phil May in Australia and On the
Hop, both edited by A. G. Stephens, Phil
May, by James Thorpe, and Modern Carica-
turists by H. R. Westwood. You will also
find an unpublished volume, which is in the
Mitchell Library in manuscript form, entitled
Autobiographies of Australian and New Zea-
land Authors and Artists: Collected by A. G.
Stephens, The Bookfellow, . 190 MZ 24 ’- nf ° f
great value. Should you require further infor-
mation the Service Department will be pleased
to assist.
* * * *
A few particulars concerning Arnold Zweig,
German novelist ? —1940.
Born at Gross-Glogau, Prussia, in 1887, he
was the son of a saddler. He received a uni-
versity education, specialising in modern lan-
guages and German literature. During the
Great War he was a private m a labor bat-
talion in northern France and Serbia, and from
1917 till the Armistice was in the press section
of Ober-Ost. After the war he lived in Upper
Bavaria, and left his home after the Hitler
putsch of 1923. He lived in Berlin till 1933,
when he was expelled. After some months of
European migration, he went to Palestine,
where he now resides. His principal works are
the novels Claudia, The Case of Sergeant
Grischa, Young Woman of 1914, De Vriendt
Goes Home, Education Before Verdun and
Crowning of a King.
Brief Answers.
R.J.D.: Get in touch with any of the patent
attorneys advertising in this issue... .A.R.G.:
Consult the Statesman’s Year-Book or
Whitaker’s Almanack S.W.L.: Apply De-
partment of Defence, Melbourne... .R.M.:
Players who have scored more than 4000 runs
in Sheffield Shield are Bradman (6771), C. Hill
(6274), V. Richardson (6148), Kippax (6096),
Ponsford (5413), Noble (4996), Armstrong
(4993), Ryder (4613), Bardsley (4171)... .8.K.:
Queensland entered Sheffield Shield matches in
1926-27. The holders of the Sheffield Shield
have been N.S.W. (21), Victoria (16), South
Australia (5)... .R.A.D.: In Test cricket the
captains before tossing must give each other a
list of the eleven selected to play, together with
the emergency fieldsman. Afterwards no altera-
tion shall be made in either eleven or emergency
player without the consent of the opposing cap-
tain J.W.: His Bulletin verse has not
appeared in book form... .A.E.: No openings
in Australia and only openings in the U.S.A.
are for highly-trained men. Competition is
very keen, and an inexperienced outsider would
stand practically no chance J.L.: Write
Burns, Philp and Co., 7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
J F F.: None that can be recommended.
i.^M.L.W.: If you forward Christian name,
occupation and date he left MJL. a “Wants
notice will be inserted... .D.M.R.: The bowls
referred to are made from lignum-vitse....
RAD • Get in touch with Star Machinery,
Ltd , 204 Lawrence-street, Alexandria (N.S.W.).
p.A : Write Secretary, Land Administra-
tion Board, Brisbane....L.C.: London, Gam-
age’s, Ltd., and Harrod’s, Ltd. ; New York,
A G. Spalding and Bros., and Abercrombie
and Fitch D.T.W.: You are eligible under
clause Or) of Rule 5 of the League’s Federal
constitution for membership of the K.S.S.i.l.a.
.WF.H.: The area referred to should be
ploughed up and the following mixture sown
with lewt. superphosphate per acre: I crenniai
rye 81b., subterranean clover 21b., cocksfoot
31b., and red clover 21b *L R ;;. Ge , l * n
touch with Cowles and Dunn, 71 King-street,
Sydney....P.W.: (1) For a very simple will,
about a guinea. (2) You make a direct bequest
(gift) to your niece. The money would go to
your next-of-kin only in the event of your
making no will. The bequest excludes them
should you have no other property... .W.J-.C.:
Write or call upon E. J. Paxton, Ltd., 11
Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .F.A.L.: German
and Italian Consul-Generals in Sydney will fur-
nish information upon application.... I B.B.:
Agricultural Department, Sydney, will forward
you a leaflet on the subject....G.C.: fry
C. F. Laseron, 4 Bond-street, Sydney... -M.M.:
The first two-thirds were published in Ihe
Bulletin as a serial under the title 1 Sold
My Horses”... .W.C.M.: Douglas Reeds In-
sanity Fair was reviewed in the Red Page,
September 28, 1938... .W.J.L.: Moore s
Almanack and N.S.W. Post Office Directory
contain full list. Prime Minister s Department,
Canberra, could also furnish list... .R.1.M.:
The lad appears to be well suited for the trade
mentioned. Best idea is to canvass firms which
apprentice youths to that trade. The college
he attended, also Department of Labor and
Industry, should be able to assist him to find
employment....W.J.H.: (1) Maori words
could be used without fear of copyright in-
fringement. (2) Chances of infringing copy-
right are remote, but it would be wise to ascer-
tain whether the translation was copyrighted,
in which cass words could not be used with-
out permission. (3) Quite in order and the
safest plan; don’t let similarities worry y0u....
R H.R.: The preparation of pure culture mush-
room spawn is briefly described on page 7
of the N.S.W. Agricultural Department s bulle-
tin on mushroom culture. Anyone unacquainted
with bacteriological and mycological technique
is liable to experience considerable difficulty in
the preparation of pure culture mushroom
spawn free from contaminations of various
mould fungi... .L.J.8.: Can find no record o!
the land having been owned by a Mr. Joseph-
son C.C.: Stations, Gentlemen! by H. E.
Gatliff (9s. 6d.), obtainable from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney... .A.M.F.: Write to any
of the following: Miss Barnes, 16 Wentworth-
avenue, Randwick; Mrs. Sellars, 7 Dalrymple-
avenue, Lane Cove; Mrs. Whitehouse, Syl-
vander, Francis-street, Randwick all
W.C.: In the case of an unmarried old-
age pensioner who is in receipt of the maximum
rate of pension and has £lO in the bank and
no other assets (apart from the home m which
he permanently resides) the receipt of a legacy
of £lOO will cause a reduction of £6 per
annum to his pension rate. In the case of a
married pensioner where the husband or wife
is not a pensioner there would be no reduction,
but if both husband and wife are pensioners the
reduction would be £3 per annum. The Deputy
Commissioner, Invalid and Old-age Pensions,
Brisbane, should be notified immediately a
pensioner becomes possessed of any additional
assets L. 8.: In a town of 4000 people a
first-class library kept up t<? date should suc-
ceed and provide a fair living for the owner.
Probably 75 per cent, of success would depend
on the owner and 25 per cent, on the books.
W E.M.: All butter factories in Queensland
manufacture ice for the purpose of icing the
railway wagons used for transporting butter.
The same machinery is used, so there seems to
be no reason why this ice would not be suit-
able for household purposes, provided the
blocks were cut to the required size. ...
C.M.L.: “Reading the bumps on the head as
a means of determining a child’s special bent is
obsolete, and of no more worth than the cast-
ing of horoscopes. But it is possible, by con-
sulting qualified psychologists, to get expert
vocational guidance of value in choosing
a career....J.E.A.: Nothing can be done, as
anything strong enough to clean the pipes would
nrobably be objectionable to plants and animals.
The flavor disappears in time; if water is free
or cheap, flush the .pipes as often as Possible
with garden waterings S.S.: Small Boat
Navigation, by F. W. Sterling (6s. 9d ) Coastal
and Deep Sea Navigation, by C. A. Lund (9s )
and A Manual of Modern Navigation, by S. M.
Burton (95.).


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The First Prize of £3 3s. goes this week to a Coogee (N.S.W.) contributor for
a pithy protest against the leave-it-to-the-Government attitude.
Every week there is a prize of £3 35., in addition to A.J.A. rates —paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be
another prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster. Applicants will be
judged on their contributions to these pages, so they should keep their cuttings.
Why Blame the Governments?
Although I agree that there is too
much meddling and muddling on the part
of our several Governments, I am of the
opinion that we, as citizens, are really to
blame for many of the shortcomings that
are laid at the door of politicians. A
hue and cry goes up whenever we find
that we are lagging behind the rest of
the world in any particular activity, and
everybody wants to know what the Gov-
ernment is going to do about it. Why
wait for the Government?
Military training can be introduced by
forming voluntary units without any in-
terference or subsidy from the Treasury.
The Boy Scout movement and the Boys’
Brigade are illustrations of what can be
done. As for poor librae facilities, if
we really wanted libraries we could
have got them simply by forming them.
Had we taken advantage of the friendly
societies that are already in existence
(and, moreover, flourishing), the un-
reasonable National Health Insurance
Act would not have been necessary.
We cry in vain for the Governments
to break up trade combines when by
forming co-operative societies we could
protect ourselves. —W. H. W. (N.S.W.).
“W. H. W.” is William H. Webber, of
16 Pauling-avenue, Coogee, N.S.W. He
wins the £3 35., and will receive 2 id. per
line in addition.
Importance of Weather Forecasting
As rain is the most important thing
in the whole of this country, and as the
ability to prepare for it and make use of
it is the key which turns the lock of
success, it seems to me that all possible
attention should be devoted to meteoro-
logical forecasts. On radio programmes
professional tipsters have been getting
10 times the periods given to the
weather. Inigo Jones may or may not
be on the right track. At least he is
doing something ; he is breaking away
from hit-or-miss weather forecasts,
and he, or someone else like him, should
receive every encouragement and assist-
ance. — Cumulus (Q.).
Juvenile Delinquency
The present epidemic may have had
its roots in the depression, but we
handling it the right way? The delin-
quents presented at court, in some States,
are daily increasing in numbers; this
clearly shows our methods somewhere
are wrong. One youth movement, on
seeing three juniors getting together,
worked on the weakest and got him a
job out of town. The other two, finding
that the “gang” had had a loss, were not
feeling quite the same, and therefore
were more willing to take work. With
the work came less desire in all three
for delinquency. It was found possible
to “cure” 95 p.c. of the cases by this
means. The whole idea was to substi-
tute happy, healthy employment, with
an immediate wage, for hopeless inac-
tivity.
The cost to the public of the employ-
ment scheme is infinitesimal compared
with the cost of reformatories, prisons
and delinquent farms. In America it has
been found that the herding together of
delinquents in all stages is detrimental to
the well-being of over 90 p.c.; some
authorities say “detrimental to all.” With
this expei ience and with logic to guide
us it is peculiar that some well-intentioned
individuals persist in regarding the re-
formatory farm as a cure. — Observer
(W.A.).
Work in the Territory
Since returning after three years’ wan-
dering in the Northern Territory I’ve
been reading quite a few articles about
developing the North. To my way of
thinking the North will develop itself
if given a fair go by the Government.
J say definitely that the Administrator
should be an experienced Territorian.
There are men there capable of doing the
job.
As for mining administration, on some
of the best fields genuine prospectors are
pushed out to the fringe, and likely-
looking shows are held by men who
never attempt to work them, only
holding on so that they can sell if ever
there is a boom. Working conditions
could be improved and wages increased
on Government jobs and stations. Wages
on road jobs must be the lowest in Aus-
tralia when one considers the high cost
of living. Is it any wonder workers fight
shy of the Territory? Dajarra
(N.S.W.).
“What does white man do when missus Wont talk ?”
“He thanks his lucky stars , son.”
Unification
T
A Bulletin reader since 1882, I was
considerably interested in your able sub-
leader in a recent issue re Unification.
At thp time of the Federal Referen-
Hum Twr Rin i FTiM with other naners
sZI FedefaHon fi wS
main!/ through this that I and many
electors votedf or the bill Y
We ridiculed George Dibbs’s pessimism
about future political entanglements, yet
all of that wise old man’s predictions
have come to pass. If he could come to
life again and read in your article about
the political and industrial morass Aus-
tralia is in through conflicting State and
Federal laws, could not he remark with-
out any exaggeration, “I told you so”?
-J E (NSW)
‘ v
Defence and Unemployment
Of late it has dawned upon many of
us who travel through country districts
that our wheat-, wool- and fruitgrowing
industries would be in a sorry plight
were it not for our army of “unem-
ployed.” An orchardist, for instance,
who works his 10-acre block mainly on
his own must have eight to twelve extra
hands for the three weeks’ apricot har-
vest. Multiply by thousands, and we see
the importance of having a big supply
of cheap labor on tap, particularly from
November to April.
Many who take these harvest jobs are
too proud to go on dole rations; the
purpose of existence for them is to save
enough from one job to sustain them-
selves while searching for the next. This
indispensable section of the public is en-
titled to the chance of earning at least
the basic wage throughout the year.
I suggest a permanent defence force
recruited from the unemployed, with pay
equivalent to the basic wage. In addi-
tion to military training, engineers
and artisans among the recruits could
undergo special preparation for the
manufacture of tanks, ’planes and other
munitions in case of emergency. From
the defence force men could be
supplied when necessary for roadwork,
etc., and for harvest operations ; in the
latter case the wages bill to be shared
by the producers and the Government.
Some embittered unemployed have
assured me that, in spite of the feeling
of being regarded as so many cattle
under the scheme, it would be like heaven
in comparison with the misery they are
enduring now. A further advantage
would be the greatly-improved market.
—F. J. Bowen (S.A.).
Child Labor
Child labor, abolished in most civilised
countries during the nineteenth century,
still flourishes in parts of Australia.
The dairying industry figures promi-
nently, with the wheat industry a good
second. In the former, from the time the
child is six or seven, it is expected to
assist with the milking, separating, feed-
ing of livestock and many other jobs on
the farm.
One W.A. school-teacher, puzzled as
to why some of her pupils invariably
went to sleep in school, made a few
innnjrips anH frmnd that mntt nf the
inquiries and round that most ot the
youngsters were up between four and five
tbe ™°r m . n8 ’ w ° rkir }S until school-
time > and that on returning home in the
afternoon they would have to set to
work again. Provided there was no
hitch > their da y’ s work would P robabl y
at 7 p.m. Home lessons, of course,
could be done after tea.
None will deny that a certain amount
of useful employment is necessary in the
trammg of a child, and because of this it
15 bard to co P? Wltb * be Problem, for
wh ,° 15 * whei ? rl . Bht „ ful employment
e . nds and slavery begins? The depres-
* lon and consequent inability of the
farmer to hire help were primarily re-
sponsible for this state of affairs. But it
is still a problem that needs looking into.
— Cassius (W.A.).
Make Marriage Cheaper
Needless and ridiculous expenses are
connected with getting married and set-
ting up a home.
The stupid business starts with the
buying of the engagement ring; cost
averages £l5. The church charges for
giving a blessing to the contract, the
bridesmaids receive gifts and the bride’s
parents often have to scrape to meet the
cost of the reception.
Is it any wonder that we have a de-
clining birthrate? Who can afford more
than a child or two in such circum-
stances? All this stupid cackle connected
with marriage could and should be cut
out. The vast proportion of wedding
presents are a tragic joke; make it the
fashion to give the thing which is really
needed —cash.
It is a fact that those who start off with
little in the way of furniture and a simple
home have the best chance of happiness.
If a few bold spirits would give a lead,
the rest of the human sheep would soon
follow. With a bit more cash to spend,
many young couples would merely buy
radios, cars and have a general good
time ; but others would be equally cer-
tain to go in for an extra baby or two.
—H. A. L. (S.A.).
Australian Songs
Recently there was held a competition
for Australian song-writers, a very good
idea. But will any Australian song be-
come popular? Not while Australian
radio dishes up American “jungle music.”
Those very few popular Australian songs,
such as “Gundagai,” are sung with the
same gusto as the latest “hits” from Tin
Pan Alley, whenever a crowd of young
people get together, so there is some
hope.
Every European country has its own
music and folksongs, and is distinguished
thereby, but we slavishly follow the
Yanks.—P. A. M. (Q.).
Dad’s Struggle
This land business is only a tucker job
at the best. Dad has his hands full
to feed and clothe his family and give
them some sort of secondary education,
which to-day is
necessary in any
walk of life.
If, as his sons
grow up and stay On
the farm, he has to
pay them wages
equivalent to what
they would receive
in another job, or
give them each a
slice of the farm,
someone would be
going short some-
where. No doubt
Mum would be to
the fore in this and
would have to be
content through life
to put up with all
the inconveniences
of an old-fashioned
home, such as pump-
ing water and no-
thing but smelly
kerosene lamps to
light her way
through the dark-
ness. There cer-
tainly would be no
money for what are
now common com-
forts in any city
home.
A farmer who can
give his sons enough
education to get them into a bank or
Government position finds it a much
simpler job than setting them up on the
land. The son also finds it a much
simpler job than wresting a crust from
the “good earth.” Moreover, only those
who have lived it know just what a dull
struggle this life on the land is, and I
doubt if there are many sons who wish to
follow in their dads’ footsteps if there
be a cushy city job open for them. —W.
Doherty (Vic.).
Australian Friendliness
Apart from Australian friendliness (B.
9/11/’3B and 30/11/’3B) being shown in
our own land, the Aussie is known all
over the world for his hail-fellow-well-
met attitude.
I know that in Chile, Peru, Argentina,
Uruguay, West Indies, U.S.A., England,
S’Africa, India and other places the
Aussie is noted for his goodwill towards
his own countryman. My experience was
that it didn’t matter whether I was wear-
ing a collar or if the collar was in pawn,
my wandering countryman always re-
garded me as a human.
In Argentina especially I have had
Aussies travel considerable distances to
have a chat with a fellow-Australian
whenever they heard that one was within
riding distance. — Patkay (Vic.).
Contraceptives and Abortion
There has been an immense amount
of talk about our declining birthrate.
Many reasons and theories have been
evolved, but I can’t recollect having read
one article which actually referred to the


cause of the trouble, namely, the use of
contraceptives and the practice of
criminal abortion.
This country is greatly in need of popu-
lation, and our best immigrant is the
Australian-born baby. Therefore our
politicians (superfluous and otherwise)
would be doing a national service if they
introduced legislation to:
(1) Prevent the manufacture, importation
or sale of any form of contraceptive.
(2) Make criminal abortion a capital
offence.
(3) Make all abortions reportable with de-
tails, just as infectious diseases have to be
reported to-day, and then have cases
that are suspect thoroughly investigated.
All the various means adopted so far
to increase the birthrate, such as baby
bonuses and child endowment, will be
of little avail while people still have the
means to regulate the number of off-
spring they care to bring into the world,
especially when contraception is prac-
tised so extensively among the more in-
tellectual classes, who are the very ones
from whom the increase in population
is so urgently required.— Tasmanian
Observer (Tas.).
Decentralise Military Training
Apart from a few of the larger country
towns no provision is made to train
countrymen. A large number of willing
men of the right type is scattered through-
out the country, and, although it is im-
practicable to form them into large
groups for training, some means of
obtaining that training should be made
available to them.
If the Government appointed officers
to travel through the various districts
giving periodical instruction in the use
of machine-guns, for instance, there
would be, in the case of a national
emergency, a considerable number of
men who would require but little addi-
tional training to form them into an
effective unit of defence. There is no
need for such a scheme to be costly, as
cheap serviceable uniforms could be pro-
vided. Many of these men at present
spend their week-ends in idleness and
would welcome any such plan. — Mike
(W.A.).
Train the Older Ones, Too
It’s a strange thing that our Labor De-
partments have a vocational guidance
branch for boys and youths, but for the
human flotsam who collect in our capi-
tal cities there is nothing. I am not re-
ferring to the old chaps who are habitues
of the game. There are numerous young
and youngish middle-aged men still
about who represent depression victims.
They don’t want to trek here and there,
sleeping in dosshouses, frequenting
parks, foraging a meal when and how
they can. They just can’t do anything
right; mentally left-handed, as it were.
They know it and resign themselves, be-
cause they never get a chance to break
out of it.
There are a few obstinates who simply
won’t go down and who work cheaply
for a time, attempting to create oppor-
tunities. But there’s darned little satisfac-
tion attached to a pound a week and
keep. Somehow that pound won’t even
help create a small opportunity. I know,
because I am an “obstinate.” It’s useless
to point out men who have succeeded
on less, because all men are not men-
tally equal.
An acquaintance of mine has worked
for 10 years trying to find his level. He
has never earned more than 30 bob and
keep, mostly less. Yet he is a very
capable man. No prospective employer
realises it because his personality doesn’t
inspire confidence.
Some day the Governments will have
to come to the aid of his kind. If he was
given productive work to suit his indi-
vidual make-up, drawing an honest wage,
he’d pay his taxes cheerfully, value his
own existence and in time of emergency
would gladly help defend his country.
We speak of our modern age, but we
are not sufficiently modern to try to give
a helping hand to these men after their
own efforts have produced only a pessi-
mist, cynic and misanthropist.—H. F. H.
(N.S.W.).
The London Wool Market
Woolgrowers in Australia, with anxious
eyes on the wool market, have just seen
(Dec.) what they have so often seen
before —a gradual firmness and rising
tendency developing in the Australian
market countered by a huge offering in
London, dumped on to the market there,
and at a period of international tension
at that. The brokers here do a good job
in regulating and building up the market,
but their good work can be largely offset
in London and Antwerp.
Is there foundation for the growing sus-
picion of the Australian woolman that
London is jealous of the influence of the
Australian market, and that English
brokers tend to view the wool trade more
with the buyer’s eyes than the grower’s?
The only thing the Australian grower
can do about it is to ensure that every
possible bale of Australian wool is offered
in the first instance in one of the Austra-
lian markets. Here he will get the bene-
fit of Japanese competition, which is lack-
ing in London, and generally he will get
his wool cheque much sooner, and so
benefit business here. Here he can see his
clip displayed, and can meet buyers, and
from them find the mistakes he is mak-
ing in the breeding and get-up of his clip.
He can also learn just what sort of wool
is required. Furthermore, he has a far
greater control of his clip than if it is
sold 13,000 miles away by a firm whose
principals he never sees. — Norman A.
Nicolson (Tas.).
These Group Movements
Half the trouble in the world to-day
comes from what may be classified as
“group movements.” Some of these may
be good; but the vast majority are
breaking up the combined strength of our
national life. We do not think of the
nation as a whole but as a jigsaw puzzle
combined of sections that often do not
fit. A man or woman is not content to
hold an opinion and leave it at that. No,
they set off in a mad dash to revolu-
tionise the world. We find it in politics,
religion, literature, art —I could continue
ad infinitum. Groups flourish while the
thing itself wanes.
How about getting back to first prin-
ciples, and be content to fashion our own
lives according to the highest standards,
without holding up the job while we dash
round converting others? Great changes
are produced quietly, good lives are built
slowly, and world civilisations are the
result of the slowest evolution. Let us
get away from this mob instinct and mob.
hysteria in order to give, each one of us,
our best individual contribution to the
world in whatever sphere we live and
work. Life is made strong that way—
and it is upon that strength nations are
built.—N. B. (N.S.W.).
Australian Friendliness
“Restoration” (B. 30/11/’3B) gave the
man’s angle ; mine is the woman’s. We
came out 16 years ago. Australia was
always my dream-country. On the trip
out, with a three-months baby, everyone
was friendly and kind. On landing, the
same hail-fellow-well-met feeling con-
tinued. We were helped to jobs, unskilled
though my husband was. Every woman
I met was willing and ready to teach me
to cook and to housekeep, and the help
was given always with a smile.
The delightful kindness did much to
make the first hard years bearable. If
that is the average Australian’s only re-
ligion, may I say I think it is a great
one? Those who find fault and grumble
at their failure have only themselves to
thank, probably owing to their inability to
adapt themselves and to lack of staying
power. There is a point of tedium in
everything worth while that has to be
survived. Australia more than repays
anyone who survives it, and Australians
are the dinkum sort everywhere.—M. A.
(W.A.).
“Bulletin” Policy
I am compelled to buy The Bulletin
for its literary content; it is admitted
that there is no other publication even
attempting to compete either in style,
scope or quality. Even so, I am not
compelled to accept Bulletin politics as
gospel. Here, briefly, is the essence of
my grudge.
Bulletin fortunes, ebb and flow, have
been built up over historic years largely
upon the paper’s foresight in discerning
and insight in appealing to the Aus-
tralian national character —a character
largely determined by what may be
termed the unthinking, independent,
casual spirit of (Australian) democracy.
There is no occasion to stress that term
“democracy”—l realise it has been some-
what overdone. Ostensibly, then, Bul-
letin policy has been to uphold the
democratic spirit.
Yet for some time past there has been
apparent an (almost) undue hardening
towards the policy of the extreme Right.
Criticism of totalitarian matters appears
to be guarded, whilst the pale Pinks
even receive the destructive criticism
only normally—and rightly—applied to
the ruddy Reds. Most of the pale Pinks,
it must be remembered, are definitely dis-
owned by the Reds, and, in their way,
are only striving for a greater measure
of social justice.
Newspaper policy is, admittedly, open
to intolerant criticism at all times. I
have no wish to be considered intolerant,
yet I view with misgiving the present
policy. A hardening of Rightist govern-
ment in Australia with its tendency to-
wards authoritarianism must eventually
prove a Frankenstein monster to such
papers as The Bulletin. I will leave it
at that—there may be a thought in it.—
T. Palmer (N.S.W.).
“Freedom of the Press”
The press is one of those institutions
of which it may be remarked that its
shadow is more noticeable than its light.
Perhaps it is on this account that some
are honestly troubled and regard the
press as one of the misfortunes that
afflict mankind. But we have progressed
too far for a life without newspapers.
The press has become one of the most
important parts of modern life, and the
existence of nations without it can hardly
be imagined.
The press bridges time and space in
reporting daily happenings. It links up
mankind daily and hourly with the sur-
rounding world beyond the range of
vision. The newspaper is the mirror of
our age, and the press is always the focus
of all big events.
It has been proved that the expression
“freedom of the press” is one of the
loudest of empty phrases which have ever
fogged the human brain. For example,
take the Czechoslovakian crisis. It may
be remembered that when Mr. Chamber-
lain returned from his first visit to Ger-
many he gave no indication of the
specific nature of the conversations, but,
behold! nearly every newspaper knew all
about it; some even went so far as to hint
at certain actions. Of course, this went
on until the announcement of the Munich
agreement, when it was reported that
there was great rejoicing—it was a great
relief from nervous tension.
Contrast this aspect with that of the
German people, who did not show such
strong reaction. The German press is a
controlled press, and during the days of
the “crisis” all that they were told was
that negotiations were in progress (and
that is all that anybody knew outside of
the negotiators) and consequently were
not affected so strongly.
If the press could be used as an in-
stitution for expressing those ideas which
are beneficial to the whole community
instead of being the opinions of indivi-
duals, it could be directed into edu-
cational or popular enlightenment chan-
nels and bring about a tolerance which
is born of knowledge.—B. M. S. A. (S.A.).
The League
The League of Nations is dead and
awaits burial. Politically it has failed,
and proved highly incompetent to deal
with world problems. Many Gov-
ernments have drafted the remodelling
of the League, but no satisfactory solu-
tion has been found yet. The League
should attack the point from a new
angle: the social and economic one.
If the League of Nations would set
its business to bring about in the course
of time such social changes as a univer-
sal language (say Esperanto) and touch
on economics to the extent of encourag-
ing a universal monetary and weights
and measures system, the removal of
customs and exchange barriers, then the
League would assert its presence and
justify its existence. —V. Horace Palmer
(Q-). __
State Parliaments
The Bulletin has for years advocated
that State Parliaments should be abol-
ished, and I am sure a large majority of
the public are with The B. in this respect.
However, it seems the time is not yet.
In the meantime, perhaps we could
get some improvement if, in the first
place, payment of members ceased.
The right class of man would then prob-
ably make himself available. If any
electoral district was anxious for some
special individual to represent it, that
constituency should pay him.
To reduce the cost of government the
numbers in the House could be reduced
by half. To infuse some brains into the
House it should be compulsory for each
aspirant for political honors to produce
some evidence of education or other
qualification. If this were in force it
would be interesting to see how many
of the present members could hold down
their jobs.—M. K. (N.S.W.).
A Job for the Duke
Cables report that the Duke of
Windsor has appealed to King George
for something to do —“this boredom is
killing me.” Probably incorrect so far
as the appeal goes, but profoundly true
in poiat of fact, I’ll bet. The boredom
part, I mean.
Now, is this not an occasion when our
Mr. Lyons (who, his very good press
told us, gave Chamberlain the idea of
the Berchtesgaden meeting and Mussolini
that of the Munich gesture) could put in
a word for Edward, P., by nominating
him as No. 2 in the list of Royal Brother
Governors-General and giving him to
Canada?
The Duke of Windsor owned property
in Canada, he is immensely popular there
and in U.S.A., the Duchess is American,
and he knows the deputy- or pannikin-
royal job from A to Z. What could be
more fitting? It would give a useful
man work he could do well and be
something to offset the vindictive ham-
mering he got for kicking over the royal
traces and into the double ones of a
marriage which Uncle Baldwin did not
approve.
Canada might be shy about suggesting
the thing, but Our Joe might bring it
off. Wasting a man of unique experience
and diplomatic skill is just silly. And in
his farewell speech he did offer. —
Louis M. (N.S.W.).
Australian-made
Much criticism has been levelled at
the consumer for his (or her) failure to
use Australian goods more extensively.
Here's my experience.
A broken chaffcutter necessitated re-
placement of a complete mouthpiece;
yet, despite the fact that cheeks and plates
were ordered together, they t were not
fitted, and on assembly the holes for set-
screws in the plates were more than the
width of holes out of position. Inquiry at
the local agency brought forth the assur-
ance that this was a common occurrence,
a handful of plates and a request to try
my luck with these, and if none fitted
they would get more from the city.
I ordered a stub axle and box for a
hay-rake ; both came tied together (not
fitted), and it wore out two files and
wasted most of a day to get them to fit.
My head is no more subject to expansion
than the average individual’s, yet I can
wear hats from 6i to of various Aus-
tralian makes without any trouble.
“Scrubber” Junior’s blouses are another
bone of contention. Of two brands
bought the same day and same marked
size, one was l|in. longer, 2in. greater in
girth and \\n. “extra” in neck.
All these are Australian-made —the
quality is satisfactory, but the finish de-
plorable. Storekeepers resent our buy-
ing at the door off hawkers, but until
some system of standardisation and effi-
cient control is set up we must see what
we buy.— Scrubber (S.A.).
The “All-Female” Policy
The Bulletin leader of 30 /11 / ’3B is
certainly a sweeping attack on the female
worker. In a job-snatching age the suc-
cessful competition of women is a serious
question ; but why follow the big-stick
methods of other countries in dealing
with it? Why not advocate payment
for wives and mothers? Why should
home-making and child-rearing be denied
their proper status as the most important
work a woman can undertake? Why
should the comfort, efficiency and often
the health and happiness of a woman
depend not on her motherhood but on
the position her husband occupies in the
community something which is quite
apart from her contribution to the
national life?
If children are the country’s best
immigrants, the mother should receive
practical recognition, as she would if
holding down a job in industry. No
question as to which women would
choose if the problem was treated in a
sane, sensible way, though until the right
man materialises girls in the main must
seek jobs wherever they are to be found
in order to live. If there was a pay
envelope for the mother as such, the
result would be fewer neurotic women,
fewer unemployed men, fewer illicit part-
nerships with accompanying evils, more
happy homes and no birthrate decline.
Girls are charged in the Bulletin
article with patronising imported
materials for dress and make-up, but
the responsibility for this must rest with
the men who, in the great majority of
cases, choose the smart, fashionably-
made-up flapper in preference to her
unadorned sister. Many employers also
expect their female employees to be
“smeared and sprinkled.”
I think it is rather unfair to single out
the female sex as being the only con-
sumers of Hollywood and Tin Pan Alley
stuff. Males are nearly as bad.—L. T.
(Q).


~Jhis masterpiece is —.
j the spirit he always serves.
i t
a
3*
o=z
tr'yf'
m
m
m
7A
m
w
W
rr"
§§S3i
4
Uwa»umm MMMii rjtn«u»uni>^M^mn>..r«.»«»««^>-rH<4 ) nuMV{n«rm»<iimrm«tmi Miww>»wtTnu>n»»mimgJWfW
(D c GUluro's
yAo u/A/sAyjs- r
(D c Cdllums
Scots (Übislty
x>.
m ( r»v-«M •*•»)
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
fsd
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
o°,
„s®V
\\evt
,^ s ...••;>^$r°'
..•* ..•• . of \°
# 0^ v i
No. 2 BOOK NOW ON SALE
The PHANTOM
A PICTURE-SERIAL FULL
OF ADVENTURE,
MYSTERY AND
THRILLS. C°
68 Pages for 6d.
(Postage 2d. 1
extra.)


Walk the deck
in comfort . . .
ride in the car
at ease!
'TO
need now to fear sickness due
to sea, land or air travel, because
a Britannia Shield will enable you
really to ENJOY going places. Wear a Britannia Shield
and do without pills or drugs! The Britannia Shield has
never been known to fail in giving immunity against all
forms of travel sickness.
The Britannia Shield is made in sizes for men, women,
and children . . . worn next to the skin it gives scientific
support to the nervous centres affected by travelling. The
Britannia Shield has been thoroughly tested, and its success
in even the most susceptible cases is assured. Before you
start on your journey by land, sea or air ... wear a Britannia
Shield and say good-bye to travel sickness.
<%s
4
Y/a'a
m
■&L
\\
No more travel sickness...
ENJOY your cruise or tour
BRITANNIA
Obtainable from Farmer and Co., Ltd., David Jones, Ltd.,
and Mick Simmons, Ltd., all branches.
3
POST FREE
-—from Britannia Shield Co.,
Box 4292 Y, G.P.0., Sydney.
When ordering state chest
or bust measurement^
For Men, Women and Children
Never known to fail for sea, car or air sickness.
