

Life
Assurance
The Balance Wheel of
Life.
For the
BUILDING OF
YOUR HOME,
EDUCATION OF
YOUR CHILDREN,
LIQUIDATION OF
THE MORTGAGE.
Full particulars will
be forwarded on
application.
."••i
; i! " : • v ; : W;
ft
■
11
ill
7*
y
'■ r h
m
*
*
fef
w
t
/
Mill
swill
: ■
ri
■■ V:
•svi •:
Life
Assurance
The only Business
Certainty
For the
PROTECTION OF
ESTATE OR
BUSINESS,
FAMILY INCOME,
SALARY CON-
TINUATION.
Full particulars will
be forwarded on
application.
CITY MUTUAL CORNER,
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
U/)e
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Purely Mutual, All Profits Belong to the Policy Holders.
Operates only in the Commonwealth of Australia.
Unsurpassed Reserves. Pays the Biggest Bonuses.
REPRESENTATIVES REQUIRED. WM. BENNETT, Managing Director.
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3031.
Wednesday, March 16, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to:—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE.
In the London “Times” Australian supplement
to celebrate our 150th Anniversary, literature receives
its dole in the second-last page—if not in the van, it
is at least in the cart.
Professor Murdoch devotes two columns to “The
Literary Output: Laying the Foundations.” He begins
with what is virtually an apology and ends on a no
of tepid hopefulness.
Ambitious young writers are apt to flee to London,
where a number of them have achieved success—but
their talent has been lost to Australian literature. All
honor then to the stay-at-homes who are struggling
against heavy odds to lay the foundations of an Aus-
tralian literature and to give a voice to their country!
The foundations have been well laid; already there are
things both in prose and verse which will some day win
recognition from the outer world —“Few but roses.”
Between these poles Professor Murdoch’s points
are (1) “Australian literature does not begin wit t
infantile stammerings but with highly sophisticatec
imitations of English classics.” (He expends a colum
attempting to substantiate this.) (2) Lawson was th
first Australian writer, and Such Is Life —though
cannot be described as a novel —is an Australia
classic ; but The Fortunes of Richard Mahoney is th
only Australian novel “on an epic scale.” (3) Hop
for the drama—there is no Australian drama, bu;
some day there may be, and perhaps it will be good
(4) Comic and satiric elements are still absent from
Australian literature.
This seems an inadequate treatment of the sub
ject, since it is almost entirely negative. It is api tv
that this opportunity of telling the world about Aus
tralian literature has been cast away, the more so a
Professor Murdoch evidently considers “recognition
from the outer world” the greatest palm that we cai
win.
The article underestimates and misrepresents Aus
tralian literature, which is, and has been for mam
years, a positive, not a negative, national function
It is true that the first settlers brought their British
heritage with them, but it is also true that Australia has
had, if not “infantile stammerings,” a folklore period
That many of the pioneers were illiterate helped rather
than retarded this. They were the more open to the
influences of the new environment. An Australian
vocabulary, more closely adjusted to local life than
imported English words could be, grew up, and with
it an anonymous store of campfire stories and bush
songs developed—and still exists in odd corners not
regularly reached by pictures and wireless —to. form
a cultural reservoir comparable in its way to the
myths and legends that formed the common fund of
the Greek poets and dramatists. (Davison’s Man-Shy,
for example, grew out of a campfire yarn.)
This fund of story, rooted in the lives of the
people, not in overseas culture, was the background
of the group of short-story writers and balladists that
grew up round The Bulletin. It is apparent in the
work of the humorists —non-existent, according to
Professor Murdoch —like Lawson, Dyson, Steele Rudd
and Tom Collins. Satire, by the way, does exist —in
the novels of John Dailey, for instance. But satire is,
for the time being, a side-issue.
Of the novelists of the Australian literary Renais-
sance, the group whose spearhead of success was A
House Is Built, winner of the first Bulletin novel
competition, Professor Murdoch says not a word.
Katharine Prichard, Norman Lindsay, Vance Palmer,
Brian Pen ton, M. Barnard Eldershaw, Brent of Bin
Bin, Kylie Tennant, Eleanor Dark, Miles Franklin,
Martin Boyd, Velia Ercole, G. B. Lancaster, Seaforth
Mackenzie, Leonard Mann —to name a few that come
quickly to mind —have reproduced Australian rhythms
in terms of Australia, and have, individually and in
the aggregate, a literary power and standing of which
no country would need be ashamed.
No mention is made of poets like Hugh McCrae,
Christopher Brennan, John Shaw Neilson, Mary Gil-
more and none of critical writers who have helped
shape the course of Australian literature —A. G.
Stephens, Nettie Palmer, H. M. Green, Hilary Lofting
and that host of reader-commentators who have made
the Red Page a clearing-house of literary ideas for
half a century. Colorists like Idriess, C. E. W. Bean,
Jack McLaren, Alfred Searcy, Carl Warburton, Myrtle
Rose White, Mrs. Gunn, Duncan-Kemp, Hatfield and
others are overlooked —writers whose work has given
the race a common imaginative background.
These people have given Australia a voice in
literature, put Australia in a position where it is neither
in need of an apologist nor dependent for expression
on some future hypothetical plays or satires. In view
of this —and referring back to the novelists’ achieve-
ment —the following from Professor Murdoch’s article
seems rather fatuous:
It is to the younger writers now living and working
in Australia that we must look for the first Australian
novel that shall depict the soul of Australia for us.
Already there are signs that we may not have to look
long in vain.
There would be less justification for taking Pro-
fessor Murdoch to task for his “Times” article if it
were an isolated instance; but only recently in the
“Sydney Morning Herald,” in an article purporting
to survey the Australian literary achievement to date,
he took a column and a quarter to say, in effect, that,
while he knew something about Boldrewood and Ken-
dall and the earlier writers, he really knew nothing
about the modern effort. If Professor Murdoch
intends to speak at home and abroad for Australian
literature it’s surely time he made good the gap in
his knowledge.
Billet for Ballet.
There was the same rather futile charm about “La
Boutique Fantastique,” which Colonel De Basil brought
to Australia and M.L., as there is in Edith Sitwell’s
slightly skittish creations in verse. As a goosegirl, a
dairymaid or even a parrot, Edith Sitwell has a frozen
sprightliness, like that of a figure painted on porce-
lain, which for all its artificiality has real aesthetic
value. For instance:
Bird-breasted flutes by the green waterfalls
The green bird-bosomed waterfalls
Sound where the roses, flaxen fruits, sing madrigals.
The Sun, that blackamoor, dark page,
Plays on his flute till through the golden cage
Of the bright wind beneath your window tall
The gilded spangles fall.
That, with its colorful decor and its fantastic pup-
pets, is so exactly the atmosphere of the more artificial
of the ballets —the dancing and miming of the toys
in “La Boutique Fantastique,” and even of the dreamy
loveliness of “Le Spectre du Rose” or the nightmare
movements of “Les Presages”—that it is hardly sur-
prising to learn in Cyril W. Beaumont’s monumental
Complete Book of Ballets (Putnam) that Miss Sitwell’s
six poems entitled Fagade have actually been danced
as a ballet. “All these dances,” says Mr. Beaumont,
“were conceived in a spirit of light burlesque with
little satirical touches which accord exactly with the
spirit of the music ; everything is up to date, frivolous
and as light as a chocolate eclair.”
In his 1100-page history of the ballet from the
days of Didelot (who started the ball rolling in the
early 1800’s, and whose description is quoted as “thin
as a skeleton, had a very long, red nose, wore a light-
red wig with a laurel wreath on his head, and danced
with a lyre in his hand, with great success”), Mr.
Beaumont mentions another ballet which is up to date
in a very different sense from Miss Sitwell’s. That
is the “Ballet Mecanique,” which was first presented
in the Hollywood Bowl in 1932. The ballet drama-
tises the rhythms of an iron foundry, the dancers
representing units of machinery. Into an immense
stage reflecting a red furnace-glare, enters the Dynamo,
a danseuse in gleaming silver, who whirls out her skirt
to the form of a wheel. She is followed by another
Dynamo, a male dancer dressed in black, scored with
silver spirals and bound at the waist with a red sash. The
groups of dancers, dressed in metallised fabric, weave
patterns on the stage in accordance with the pound-
ing rhythms of Mossolov’s “Spirit of the Factory.”
As Mr. Beaumont tells it, it sounds an exciting
composition, and points to a future for the ballet
which it could never have while it presented merely
the frivolous or the fantastic.
Colonel De Basil’s troupe, when they attempted
comedy, were appallingly feeble, and, though the
charm and novelty of the performance might hold
the public for a season or two, any wise man, unless
his wife insisted on making a white-tie occasion of it,
would dodge the ballet to watch any of the brilliant
tap-dance comedians the talkies provide.
Where the ballet makes its strongest appeal is
in the presentation of sentimental loveliness, as in
“Le Spectre du Rose,” or of beauty, or of violent
emotion, as in “Les Presages,” but in Mr. Beaumont’s
exhaustively and almost exhaustingly painstaking
review there are literally scores of light ballets, based
on childish folk-tales, the presentation of which would
be immensely dull. Comedy is out of place at a
Menuhin recital, and it seems equally inappropriate
to demand it from an artist as great and as tragic
as Nijinsky:
There was another tour of South America and then
Nijinsky and his wife returned to Europe and settled
at St. Moritz. There he began to develop strange
moods. He would draw at lightning speed weird
figures—butterflies which resembled himself, and spiders
with the face of Diaghilev. There were other untoward
incidents, culminating in a dance recital, where he
astonished and terrified the audience by his attempt to
express in dancing the war with its misery and horror.
He was found to have lost his reason.
Instead of folk-stories, which really have a com-
manding appeal only to the “folk,” who are all pretty
thoroughly dead by now, and instead of the Edith
Sitwell touch, which appeals only to a few, the ballet
could retain its popularity by concentrating on the
fundamental human passions. It does this now in the
interpretation of great music, and the field could be
widened by including the dancing of great poetry.
Oddments of Shakspeare, “The Lady of Shallott” and
Mallarme’s “L’Apres-Midi d’un Faune” have already
been presented successfully, and from “Paradise Lost”
to Roy Campbell’s silver gum-trees there are a hundred
other themes of drama or beauty waiting to be danced.
With the company as waves in silver in the back-
ground, this poem of Yeats’s would make a perfect
pas deux : —•
Although you hide in the ebb and flow
Of the pale tide when the moon has set,
The people of coming days will know
About the casting-out of my net,
And of how you have leaped, times out of mind,
Over the little silver cords,
And say that you were hard and unkind,
And blame you with many bitter words.
Bagpipes and Beetles.
It is probably courting a horrible death by bag-
pipe to compare a passion for the Highlands with an
intellectual interest in beetles, yet two recent books
of verse justify the idea. In The Fifth Element (R.P.
23/2/’3B) J. Griffyth Fairfax made the profound
assertion:
Men worshipped anciently in Khem
Beetles as symbols of the soul;
But lizards have more life in them:
More life is an immortal goal.
The second poet, Sir George Rowley Hill, Bart.,
telling in Mull and lona Poems “how the Macleans
came back to Duart,” can hardly be said to deal with
such odd livestock as Mr. Fairfax, but the two do
resemble each other by revealing, each in his admit-
tedly minor verses, a cultured and pleasant person-
ality, a mind totally removed from ordinary exist-
ence, interested not in the world as it seethes in 1938,
but in life’s timeless curiosa.
Both, in their apologetic prefaces as well as in
their verses, call to mind a poet by the name of John
Wager, who dwelt in total and contented obscurity in
Leeds during the last century, and in 1871 bowed in
his poems to the world with:
From early days the love of nature and poetry has
been to the author a source of constantly recurring de-
light. But while, on the one hand, this love of nature
and song has prompted in him also the endeavor to
sing; on the other, the knowledge acquired of the
works of our great bards, and the deep, appreciative
reverence he bears for them, have sufficiently taught
him that the world can very well spare the effusions
of his lowly Muse. But trusting that a faint spark of
heavenly fire has been granted....
The world is very well served with such “lowly
effusions.” Not only does Wager, like his modern
counterparts, occasionally write a really pleasing poem
—he observed that on his “dear rude old trees” the
mosses and lichens were like “elfin language”—but the
remote simplicity in which he moved caused him fre-
quently to produce a real gem for the collector of
charming oddities. Any poet is allowed a bee in his
sonnet —a Maoriland poetess once got away with a
whole “cummerbund” of the insects about a pear-tree
—and Mr. Fairfax has contrived to translate the beetle
usually associated with brows and cliffs to actual
wriggling reality, but John Wager’s sensibilities were
such that even a snail could stir him to verse:
Where art thou roaming to, wonderful Snail,
With thy beautiful house on thy back?
Outstretching thy soft horns, and leaving a trail
Of fine gauzy pearl on thy track.
Unlike Wordsworth or Southey, for the snail is
surely a lineal descendant of little Peterkin, Wager
saw the humor of his enthusiasms, and the poem
goes on:
A hermit, self-doom’d to prostration and peas,
In a cold cell with no clothes on his back;
A cosmopolite, ever at home and at ease;
A poor pedlar bowed down with his pack.
He could joke ; but first and last he was, as he’d have
put it, a follower of the Muse, and he quickly recovers
his proper gravity, the fire of his inspiration pro-
pelling the poor snail to the extraordinary energetic
existence of a globetrotter:
The gipsy of Nature, unfetter’d and free,
Idly roaming the green earth art thou;
Pitching thy tent in the lane ’neath a tree,
, On the moor or the lone mountain’s brow.
The snail is a long way from Scotland, yet the
feeling moving the poets is fundamentally the same.
As pants the Bart, for Highland streams, Wager pines
for Nature. And both of them, if they don’t succeed
in writing very great poetry, do perform one feat
which (except in the poems of Davies, and perhaps
Yeats), owing to the modern shame of the person, is
regrettably rare in verse to-day. They reveal them-
selves as pleasant personalities.
One might trace back through Wordsworth to
the boisterous Elizabethans and as far as Chaucer the
history of character in poetry. Most of the modern
writers put themselves forward deliberately as pure
impersonal ideas, but Wordsworth, lying so exquisitely
“vacant” on his couch, or chatting to the spiritual
twin of old Kaspar and the other village idiots when
their work was done, appears with splendid clarity as
a person. There is a picture of him, shortly after his
brother was drowned, in a letter in Llewelyn Powys’s
Somerset Essays: “As for the ladies, Ido what I can
to comfort them. Every day for an hour I sit and
weep with them.” And both beetles and personality
in verse go back to Donne, who, in a remarkable
poem entitled “The Flea,” pointed out to his coy lady
that in the insect, which had bitten them both, “our
two bloods mingled be”:
Oh, stay, three lives in one flea spare,
Where we almost, yea, more than married are.
New American Novelist.
Easy to read and well worth the time is This
Man Murray, by William Corcoran (Dent). The
author is a new American writer who—says an accom-
panying publicity leaflet —led a knockabout life as a
youngster and now pours the essence of his experi-
ences into a fictional mould.
His hero is a typical American youth—or typically
Australian for that matter —well set up physically,
likeable, game, fond of a sociable time and, in the
way of earning a living, willing and able to turn his
hand to most things. He learns his trade as a sheet-
metal worker, and then goes for a walkabout, sending
casual letters to his people from “places all over the
nation,” just to say he’s all right and not to worry
about him.
At one “burg,” in lack of work at his trade, he
takes a job spreading ballast on the railway. He
comes near to settling down in this place when he
meets the blonde American-born daughter of his Polish
{Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
‘THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS
New Season's Styles
FOR MEN
! mm
m
B H nnni
mmm
/ ...... i. ' ,
Uni
iK
ran
if
! fffCTOM
1
1 I
■
*1
SB
HH|I
.
Hk
f /■*
cr \
Best Quality
English Overcoats
“As smart as a well-dressed English-
man’’ is recommendation indeed.
This can be applied to you if you
wear one of these overcoats.
BURBERRY’S. £l2/12/-
AQUASCUTUM £lO/10/-
RODEX. ..£B/8/-
AQUATITE From £6/6/-
DEXTERFrom£6/6/-
j.BARRAN’SFrom£S/5/-
English Style
DRESS SUITS
147
You will want to
look well on that
important occa-
sion. These Dress
Suits are tailored
in the latest English styles from fine
quality Black Dress Coatings.
Designed with braided trousers.
At Anthony Horderns’ .... 147/-
SAC SUITS
89-6
Sac Suits tailored
by Anthony
Horderns’ to fit
anyone from 10
to 1 6 stone.. We
can fit you perfectly, instantly with
a well-cut, smartly-tailored suit. The
material is All Wool Worsted in
Blues, Greys, Fawns or Browns.
At Anthony Horderns' 89/6
I
M '
s
VS
1 :
JODHPURS
Dispens e with
leggings— use these
strong Riding Twists
cut and made for
hard saddle wear.
2,4
They will give long service.
At Anthony Horderns’ .... 21/-
USE THE
D.P.S.
Secure any item* from
Anthony Horderns’ by
putting a deposit of 47-
in fche £ on it. Continue
payments in weekly or
monthly instalments. Take
possession after final pay-
ment.
m
Si $
. I 9
m
m
u
n
2-P’ce SUITS
Irish Donegal
Two-piece Suits.
Real Irish
Tweed, tailored
by Anthony
79e
Horderns’. Patch pockets and
tailored back. Trousers can be
worn with belt or braces.
At Anthony Horderns’ ... 79/6
• Mens Clothing—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.IV. and seaports in the Commonwealth
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Gavin S. Casey’s Prize-winner
MAIL-RUN EAST
By GAVIN S. CASEY
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
THE old man was becoming talkative. Behind a
pot that was never empty and never full he
spoke of glories that were gone.
“I been through here with camels,” he
announced. “I was through when there wasn’t any
road, an’ I was through a dozen times when the track
was just a camel-pad.”
Sayers and the barmaid didn’t pause in their
conversation. Young Williams, sitting opposite the
old man under the kerosene lamp, stared at him
glumly and made no remark. Outside there was
steady rain, big drops alighting dispiritedly on thirsty
red soil that devoured them and cascading off the
gables and into the tanks of the little pub. The bar
was warm and airless as a cave.
“It was different then,” the old man insisted,
rattling his pot for attention. “It took men to git
through in them days. There wasn’t no roads or
motor-cars, or pubs to stop at. There wasn’t nothing
between town and the Border Find.”
“It must have been tough,” said Williams.
He was watching Sayers and the girl, who had
their heads together. His mate’s big shoulders were
hunched over elbows on the counter, and he was
enjoying himself. He always enjoyed stops at the
Ninety Mile. Millie giggled enthusiastically, and
Williams’s scowl blackened. The old man looked
at the pair with drunken gravity and at his companion
maliciously.
“Women!” he snorted contemptuously. “There
weren’t no women then. Where there was women
there was trouble. None o’ them fellers would sit
back an’ see someone else have all the luck.”
But Williams ignored the implication. He
crouched over the table, trying to convince himself
that it was because of Mrs. Sayers that he was begin-
ning to hate her husband. Those stops at Ninety
Mile, of which she must learn something soon! Tom’s
swagger and booming joviality and effortless deceit!
The big chap had all the luck, all right!
Halliday, who drove the mail-car, came in out
of the night with a bag over his head and water
falling from all. over him.
“Hell! She’s cornin’ down,” he said.
“Rain!” said the old man scornfully. “It wasn’t
water we was frightened of in the old days. It was
the lack of it. But we never let that stop us. We
never let nothin’ stop us.”
Sayers rolled out his ready laugh. “This is not
stopping us, either. You’ll see all the water you want
in the morning, Dig.”
“We’ll be all right in the car,” said the mailman.
“But how will you blokes go with the truck?"
“You won’t catch us on the y:ay in,” said Sayers
confidently.
The rain hit the roof harder, in a swirling shower
that drowned out conversation. Millie hugged her
shoulders with her scarf and shivered. The woman
who, with her husband, was the remainder of the
mail-car’s human freight appeared in the bar and
bought brandy in a bottle.
“How is he now, Mrs. Vincent?” asked Halliday.
“He’s no better,” she said. “I wish we could go
on.”
They all looked through the window into the
pattern of tumbling drops. The hood of the mail-car
glistened with wet, and the great truck looked like a
drowned sea-monster. The bulk 01 its
huge load of mining machinery towered
over the hotel verandah, gleaming and
rusting in the window-light under the down-
pour. There were bags over its bonnet and
stuffed into a broken window of the cab.
“It’d do him more harm than good to be out
in that,” said Halliday. “It’s only an open car,
Mrs. Vincent, and if we slid off the road we’d have
to spend a wet night. It’ll be all right in the day-
light.”
Sayers, characteristically, was examining the
woman with interest.
“Me an’ my mate could take you through in the
truck, madam,” he offered. “It’s got a closed cab.”
“Don’t be a damn’ fool!” said Halliday. “You’ll
find it hard enough to get that awkward brute of a
load through to-morrow.”
Williams was startled. “Joe’s right. I wouldn’t
like to take it through in the dark.”
“I know you wouldn’t,” said Sayers contemptu-
ously. “But I wouldn’t mind, and I’ll do it if the lady
wants me to.”
The woman was admiring and grateful, but in
doubt. Millie wore a rebellious, resentful look. They
all waited for an answer.
“Thank you,” said the woman. “Thank you, but
I don’t know. He’s at least comfortable where he is.
Perhaps he’ll be better to-morrow.”
.She went out with her bottle, and Halliday, red
and wrathful, turned on Sayers. “I’ll take anything
on wheels where you will, but I’m not a fool an’ I
don’t show off.”
“That can’t be so,” said Sayers calmly, “or you’d
be where I’d be now if I was driving that little crate
of yours—right at the Border.”
There was tension in the little room. Williams
found himself ranged against his mate ; he wanted to
see the grin wiped off Sayers’s face, but he knew that
neither Halliday nor himself could do it. Behind the
big man he could see Millie, wordlessly approving
whatever Sayers did. He stood up, and his eyes
unashamedly sought out something heavy and easy to
swing. Halliday was in front of Sayers, with hate
and hesitation in his face.
The old man suddenly became shrilly voluble.
“Teams!” he said loudly. “Hell! We didn’t let
nothin stop us when we was pullin’ the plant in to
the Border Find. Them that wasn’t up to the job was
discovered later, naked an’ dead, on one o’ the dry
stretches—not squabblin’ about how good they was
in a comfortable pub.”
Halliday and Williams turned on the old man
together.
“Pity they didn’t find you dead somewhere!”
yelled Williams. “For hell’s sake shut up!”
“They couldn’t kill me!” yelped the old man,
rising in alcoholic indignation. “An’ that ain’t
because better men than you blokes haven’t tried.”
Waving his lean old arms he advanced menacingly
on the entire party, and, though he was ridiculous,
Halliday and Williams were disconcerted and
ashamed. But Sayers was gleeful. Amusement
rumbled out of him.
“You an’ me’s the same sort, Dad,” he said.
“Come over here an’ have a pot with me.”
Disgusted, Halliday made for bed, and Williams
went on to the verandah. The parched ground was
full, and gutters were starting to run. The vast tyres
of the truck stood in a shallow pool that stretched out
of sight. There were no stars, and the black outlines
of trees were vague in the rain. There was little
wind, and the only noises were those of falling and
trickling water. The red road that had replaced the
camel-nads would be a morass for most of the
hundred and ten miles between the Ninety Mile ana
the Border. Williams went in, and in the bar there
was now only Millie, cleaning up hastily.
“I’ll have another one, Millie,” he said.
She was whistling as she worked, hurrying
eagerly, and she served the drink carelessly and con-
tinued wiping and dusting.
“It must get on your nerves out here,” he sug-
gested.
“Yes,” she said briefly. “It’s not very gay.”
Normally, Williams guessed, she would respond
eagerly to any suggestion of sympathy. But he only
came to the Ninety Mile in company with Sayers.
She had never worried to be more than polite to him.
He moved along the passage towards the room which
he and Sayers shared when they stopped at Ninety
Mile.
Sayers was in the passage talking to the woman
who was taking her sick husband to the doctor at
the Border Find. Expressing regret, offering help,
swaggering as usual. The woman seemed impressed,
eager to talk and keen on his company. Williams
wondered. None of it was his business, anyway. He
climbed between the sheets and lay thinking of Tom’s
wife, ahead at the Border, and Millie. The rain was
still falling. It patted the roof gently now ; friendly,
thought Williams, to every living thing in the bush
except men who drove heavy trucks.
THE morning arrived without sunshine, and the
truck left early, squelching through mud. Halli-
day’s three passengers took longer to eat and arrange
themselves. They came out at last to where he was
smoking and waiting on the pub verandah.
He’d hardly seen Mrs. Vincent’s husband on the
previous night when he had picked them up about
ten miles from the pub where a car-owning neighbor
from their north-country settlement had left them.
Now he saw that he was a poor thing, all skin and
bone and a racking cough. The old man was spry
and lively. Halliday stowed them among papers and
parcels and tools he was delivering to the Border.
The dirty car headed along the road, slithering and
bumping.
“The teams,” said the old man as his aged limbs
rattled over a set of vicious potholes, “was slow, may-
be, but they was comfortable. A man travelled like
a human bein’, not like a parched pea on a hot
shovel.”
“You can still get teams,” said Halliday, “but 1
don’t see you travellin’ with one.”
“Nothin’ could stop ’em,” said the old man. “We
struck just this sort o’ weather with the Border stamps
aboard, an’ we used thirty beasts an’ never stopped
unless we wanted to.”
“Oh, I hope we don’t have to stop,” said the
woman.
“We’ll be right, Mrs. Vincent,” said Halliday. “I
been. takin’ the mails through Border and around
Yangarrie for eight years, an’ I’ve seen it as bad
before.”
He drove confidently, and where the slush was
deep he always knew a detour. The road was
straight, and the rain entered on the driver’s side. He
and the woman on the back seat were soon wet. The
woman would not change places with the old man
and leave her husband.
They watched the windscreen-wiper diving errati-
cally to and fro across the glass in front of them
and the sodden bush swishing past. Often they had
to crawl at five miles an hour, and the old car com-
plained at the bumps. But the miles spilled away
behind them. They were bogged once, but half an
hour spent unloading and five minutes of Halliday’s
juggling with gears and motor saw them free. Then


S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date June 6, 1938.
«t2OQ
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
No entry having been considered
worthy of the Prize last year the
amount goes on to this year’s award,
making the total £2OO. Details can
be had on application to “The
Bulletin, 252 George St., Sydney.
the big truck loomed ahead, and Halliday began to
congratulate himself on having given it three hours
start and caught it at half-way. Closer, he perceived
that its great wheels were sunk in mud, and he smiled
at the memory of Sayers’s swagger. ploughed
his lighter car through the muck beside the wagon
and stopped ahead.
“Well,” sang out Williams ruefully 'we’re in
this time! She’s dropped right through the road.’
“Bunk!” contradicted Sayers. “We’ll have her
out in no time. I been in worse than this, and I’d
never have got caught this time only”
He began to make explanations to which no
one listened. They all, except the woman and her
husband, inspected the truck.
Sayers had been cutting saplings, and Williams
had dug through the mire around one wheel. He
had dug deeply, to reach the bottom of the tread.
They looked at the great, still mass standing in the
rain.
“We’ll have to get a move on,” announced
Sayers. “She’s too heavy. She’s going further
down.”
“We can’t throw the load off,” said Williams.
“Look at it.”
They looked. It was a solid five-ton structure
of iron.
“Took a dozen men an’ a steam crane to put it
there,” said Williams glumly.
“A few beasts,” mumbled the old man critically.
“A good team o’ horses would pull her out o’ there
in no time.”
“I’ll give you a pull, anyway,” said Halliday,
looking at the truck without hope.
“You’ve got mails to deliver, an’ a man to get
to the doctor,” said Williams.
“It won’t take half an hour,” said Halliday. “If
she doesn’t come I’ll have to leave you, though.”
The man in the car coughed and spluttered and
spat.
“Aw, we’ll be all right,” said Sayers. “We got
tucker, an’ we won’t be short o’ water.”
“Gimme a shovel,” said the old man, grabbing
a tool he understood but was past using.
\ \ J ORKING in the rain, wet and uncomfortable and
* * covered with mud, they trenched deeply beneath
the whole four wheels and laid sapling tracks as fast
as Sayers could cut the trees. The half-hour doubled
itself, and the sick man wanted to get out and help,
and struggled with his wife and fell back on the seat
gasping and shaking.
“He’s got guts, anyway,” said Sayers. “I didn’t
think he was worth a cracker.”
The old man shivered and wheezed, too, but the
work reached an end and a rope was strung between
the vehicles. Williams and the old man hung over
the rear guards of the car to help wheel-grip. Sayers,
in the truck’s cab, roared his readiness, and with
both engines throbbing the rope tightened.
Timbers creaked and splintered, and the driving-
wheels of the car gripped and slipped and gripped
again. Sayers, from the cab, roared oaths that could
not be heard above the din at such clumsy driving.
Murdering the clutch of the great truck, he felt his
own wheels bite, and opened the throttle cautiously.
Mud oozed and bubbled between logs on to which
many tons were climbing. Sayers yelled with glee.
Then suddenly the wagon was sliding back, slipping
and slithering down the foot of incline it had gained.
Its weight reached the lower saplings, and their muddy
ends rose from the mire and erected themselves on
each side of the wheels, separated from one another.
More deeply than ever the truck sat in the mud.
The rope was slack, and a cloud of blue smoke
that had belched from the exhaust of the mail-car
hung in the air. Halliday scrambled out of his seat
and went to the rear of his vehicle.
“What the hell’s wrong?” bellowed Sayers.
“We’ll never get out now.”
“Not behind the car, anyway,” said Halliday.
“The diff.’s gone.”
The man in the car was shivering and coughing.
His wife peered over the side.
“He’s bad,” she said. “How long will it take
to fix the trouble, Mr. Halliday?”
The men looked at each other.
“Quite a while,” said the driver. “It’s an awk-
ward thing, I’m afraid.”
“Don’t be a fool,” said Sayers. “Tell her the
truth. There’s only a hundred-to-one chance we’ll be
able to fix it at all, madam. We’ll have to get the
truck out if we want to move from here, and you and
your husband had better get in the cab, where it’s
warm and dry.”
The woman looked at Sayers thankfully and with
confidence and accepted his advice. Williams and
Halliday wondered who had got them into the jamb.
“Now we’ve got to get her out,” said the big
man. “We’ve got to get the load off.”
“That’s a nice idea,” said Halliday. “But how
are we going to do it?”
“We’ll take it to pieces,” said Sayers.
“Rivets?” asked Williams.
“We’ll cut them out.”
“Horses’d never break nothin’ like that that you
couldn’t fix,” said the old man forlornly. “Y* don’t
break nothin’ with a team that you can’t patch up.”
“Won’t someone come along?” asked the woman
anxiously. “Won’t there be other cars on the road?”
“Not this weather, nor for days after,” said
Sayers.
He was on his knees among the tools, selecting
a cold-chisel and hammers, various spanners. Water
was running down the brim of his hat, and his boots
were enormous with the gluey mud that adhered to
them. The rain was lighter but persistent, and a chill-
ing wind had arrived. Soon they were hammering and
wrenching, absorbed in cruel, urgent work that ate
up the hours. The old man dropped off the rear
of the truck and went to the car. He came back
and stood in the road with the wind flattening his
sodden trousers against his skinny shanks. He had
a little bundle and a determined look.
“I ain’t much use around here,” he said, “so I’m
goin’ off for help.”
They paused, and felt the cold wind as they
watched him.
“Don’t be silly,” said Halliday. “It’s fifty-six
miles.”
“It ain’t,” said the old man. “It might be be
road, but Davis Downs station’ll be about forty north
through the scrub. I used to do it in a day once.”
The dripping scrub behind him seemed to meet
a cloudy, vague horizon a million miles away. The
sun was low, peeping through a silvery crack in rolling
black billows. Williams thought of the endless muddy
scrub and laughed.
“That was a day or two ago, old chap,” he said.
“If anyone’s got to do it it’s a job for one of us
young chaps now.”
“I can still walk,” said the old man violently.
“I can still drag me own weight even if I can’t lift
them plates you’re chuckin’ about. I’m goin’, see?”
He set off into the bush, and Williams and Halli-
day watched stupidly. Sayers vaulted down and
chased him. He got the old man by the back of the
neck and bellowed at him.
“They got a hundred miles o’ these roads t’ come
round from the Downs to get here!” he roared. “If
you want to be useful light a fire and get some tucker.”
“The woman can cook,” said the old man, wilting
but defiant.
“A woman light a fire in this! ” Sayers indicated
rain and soaking sticks in a gesture. “If you’re as
good a bushman as you reckon you are you will,
though. Now hop into it.”
"P HE old man became busy with paper from the car
1 and dripping twigs, coaxing a feeble glow in the
shelter of a fallen log.
It was becoming dark, and Williams arranged
the spotlight of the truck to shine on the job. There
were a few plates and rods piled on the ground now,
and he noticed that his hard fists had been broken in
getting them off. His limbs ached, and now that he
had stopped working he felt the chill of his wet clothes
in the breeze. Sayers, behind him, was toiling like
a beaver, and Halliday was cutting saplings and bind-
ing them into a framework down which to slide the
heavier parts of the load. The rain had "stopped but
the wind was colder, and no one was dry except the
sick man in the cab. He was moaning, and the sound
was an urgent demand for haste. Williams felt sorry
for his wife.
“Here’s tea,” said the old man with justifiable
pride, coming from his little patch of red light across
the dark.
o Continued on page 7.)
Timbers creaked and
splintered, and the driving-
wheels of the car gripped
and slipped and gripped
again. Sayers, from the cab,
roared oaths that could not
be heard above the din.


"I Believe in Marriage in Moderation” —Mrs. Parsley
THE MARRIACE EPIDEMIC
By Harold Mercer
DRAWING BY ARIA.
<4 r— VEN if he did feel like suicide,” said Mrs.
I'—' Parsley, pausing in her dusting as if she had
I suddenly remembered something, “I’m sure
Mr. Wassail would not have married if it
had not been for that honeymoon couple.
“You know there’s always something about a
honeymoon couple. It made me feel all of a quiver
myself. They still had rice in their hair and confec-
tions hanging on their clothes.
“ ‘You’re a honeymoon couple,’ I says.
“They looked at one another an’ laughed, and
then looked at me and laughed, squeezing one an-
other’s hand which they had clasped between them.
“‘Oh, Mrs. Parsley, how did you guess?’ she
cried.
“If I’d known as much as I know now I wouldn’t
have had them near the place. I believe in marriage,
but I believe in marriage in moderation.
“They became Number 24, which isn’t as nice
as I would have liked for such nice people, as I told
them.
“ ‘Oh, Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr. Poppet, ‘all we
want is love in a cottage.’
“Which, if they liked to call a flat two floors up
a cottage, was very well; they seemed to think that
it was all the better to go up two flights, instead of
one, with their arms round one another’s waists. They
was so affectionate you never saw them but they was
holding hands. I suppose it was because they was
so young and so happy, always singing and laughing,
that made people notice them.
“ ‘I hear you’ve gone in for keeping lovebirds,
Mrs. Parsley,’ says the butcher when I called in for
the meat. I didn’t understand till he added: ‘They
were in here. I don’t know that being married is so
bad.’
“He gave a look at the girl at the cash register
which made’ her turn all red.
“That was the way of it. People used to go to
the doors of their shops or look out behind the cur-
tains of their windows to see them as they passed.
Even Miss Perry, although she said it was disgusting
for people to do their love-making in public, used
to ask if they had gone up to their flat, as if the idea
gave her a thrill.
“ ‘You can’t suggest they’re not married,’ I says,
because that is what Miss Perry used to expect about
all married couples if they seemed fond of one
another.
“ ‘Of course I don’t. Didn’t I see the confections
on them when they came?’ And then she sighed. ‘I
sometimes wonder whether I did right in refusing
my opportunities to get married.’
“Mr. Slompack looked in on his way up the
stairs while we were talking.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley,’ he said, ‘if I see much more of
those lovebirds you’ll have me getting married
myself.’ Then he saw the way Miss Perry was look-
ing at him, and he scurried away as if he was scared.
“Miss Perry came out in more finery after that,
and had her hair done in a new way; and she always
seemed to be about the stairs when Mr. Slompack
went out in the morning or when he came in at night.
The poor man used to come in by the back stairs to
avoid her. Then she took up Mr. Wassail, who was
still heartbroken over finding out all about that Mrs.
De Beaufrils.
“ ‘There is something in life for all of us,’ I over-
heard her telling him one day.
“ ‘Thank you for giving me that assurance, Miss
Perry,’ said Mr. Wassail in that deep voice he had
adoptioned ever since he had become heartbroken.
‘*'7"'HERE wasn’t a person in the place that didn’t
* seem to be defected in some way by the presence
of them lovebirds, as most of them called them. I
was a bit afraid that
Mr. and Mrs. Cog-
gins, who had been
Number 16 for ages,
would object, them
being very strait-
laced people.
“‘Wei 1, cer-
tainly, Mrs. Parsley,
it is not quite the
right thing,’’ says
Mrs. Coggins, ‘for
people to go about
embracing each
other in public ; but
they are so young
and charming it
seems natural.’
“Even the little
old - age pensioner
who lived in Num-
ber 12a came home
on pension day with
a boy friend, who
was a gentleman of 74, droring the old-age pension,
too ; and she began to hint in a few days that she
might be getting married soon.
“ ‘Do you know, Mrs. Parsley,’ says Miss Perry,
coming in excited one afternoon, ‘that Dumbbell, the
butcher down below, is going to marry that girl cashier
of his? After eight years, mind you! It seems that
these Poppets going in and out, looking so much in
love, has made up their minds for them.’
“That wasn’t really the start, because Mr. Carroll
had told me only that morning that he was going at
once, He was going back to his wife, and that was
almost the same as getting married. Then Miss Tiper
had given notice that she would give up her flat the
next week.
“ ‘l’m going to be married, Mrs. Parsley,’ she
says. ‘Mr. Peters. If people can be as happy as that
couple upstairs—why, so can we.’
“I like people to be happy, and marriage is very
respectable ; but I didn’t like the idea of losing tenants
like that. Fortunately I had let Mr. Carroll’s flat,
which nearly faced Number 24, almost immediately.
“ ‘Dear Mrs. Parsley,’ says Miss Perry, looking all
girlish, ‘do you think I should marry Mr. Wassail if
he asks me?’
“ ‘lf he asks you! ’ I exclaims.
“ ‘I feel sure, from what he has been saying, that
he is going to,’ she giggles. ‘He’s elderly, of course ;
and I’m only a pore, lonely girl, with no one to advise
me.’
“Pore, lonely girl! Mutton made up to look like
lamb if ever there was.
“ ‘He’s coming up the stairs now,’ she whispers,
all thrilled, \
“So he was. And behind him was a big woman
with red hair. I didn’t want him to tell me that she
was a barmaid, which I found out later I was right.
“ ‘This is the lady we have to thank for our
happiness,’ he says, seeing Miss Perry. ‘But for her
encouragement I would never have had the courage
to propose.’
“Miss Perry was just staring at the woman as if
she’d never seen red hair before in her life.
“‘My wife —Miss. Perry, Mrs. Parsley,’ he says.
‘We got married this morning. We will go on living
in my flat, Mrs. Parsley. You’ll excuse us, won’t
you? I want to show my lovebird her nest.’
“Silly he looked, and he looked sillier when he
tried to go up the stairs with his arm round her waist.
He seemed to think they ought to behave like those
young lovebirds ; but they weren’t built the same way.
“ ‘Don’t be a silly old fool, Bert,’ she says primly.
‘Everybody looking at us!’
“And she pushed away his arm and went ahead.
“Miss Perry just stared after them. Then she
rushed to her flat and slammed the door. She seemed
to be slamming the door every opportunity. And
once during the night she had a screaming fit and
threw things about the flat. Regular historical she
was ; which shows the mistake of trying to put a
young head on old shoulders, which the Bible says
is impossible.
“The door-slamming stopped next day ; and that
evening she went out to the pickshers with Mr.
Snazzle, the young man who had come to the flat
Mr. Carroll had left.
“A roomantic young man he seemed. Them
Poppets had got him, too ; he said he felt inclined to
write a story about them, and asked all about them, as
if he couldn’t hear too much. I never saw a man
who seemed so roomantic.
BEGAN to feel that them lovebirds, much as
* I depreciated their billing and cooing, as the
Bible calls it, had done enough damage when I got
the idea that the Wassails would be leaving me. Mr.
Wassail was one of my real old tenants, and always
paid regularly.
“In spite of being a barmaid that Mrs. Wassail
was a real nice woman ; only she didn’t like Mr. Was-
sail going on with her as if he was young Mr. Poppet.
She only called him an old fool and told him to
be his age when he tried it. I think" it was a dis-
appointment to Mr. Wassail.
“ ‘I might have known! ’ I heard him roar at her.
‘Marry a barmaid and nothing will do her but you
must buy a hotel and put her in charge! ’
“‘I don’t want to be idle. I only want you to
make yourself comfortable for life, Bert,’ she says.
“ ‘I was comfortable enough till I got married,’
he says bitterly.
“Mr. Wassail was wearing a worried look like a
man whose hopes were blighted in the bud, as the poet
says. But I was thinking that really I would have to
ask them Poppets to leave before this marriage
epidemic got any worse.
“The nastiest shock of all I got when the Cog-
ginses asked me into their flat. There was a regular
spread on the table, and they asked me to join them
in some cake and wine.
“ ‘We’re going to let you into a secret, dear Mrs.
Parsley,’ says Mrs. Coggins. ‘Nobody must know
but yourself. Tom and I got married this morning.’
“ ‘Married! ’ I almost shouts. ‘But you are
married! ’
“ ‘No,’ says Mrs. Coggins; and there he was,
standing with a sheepish grin on his face, saying no-
thing. ‘We hadn’t thought it necessary before. You
see, Mr. Coggins was married before. His wife was
in Melbourne and he didn’t know whether she was
dead or not. But with those dear young people the
Poppets in the flats, we felt ashamed.’
“ ‘I thought we might as well take a risk,’ says
Mr. Coggins, speaking at last.
“ ‘And we’ll be leaving, Mrs. Parsley, sorry as
we are to go,’ says Mrs. Coggins. ‘We’re thinking of
buying a home in the suburbs and settling down.’
“If ever there was a nine days’ wonder that was
one! The Cogginses! I’d always thought them the
most straight-laced people in the house. But you never
know till the numbers go up, as Shakspeare says.
“Then it seemed as if, after making all the upset,
quite innocent like, that the Poppetts wanted to leave.
Young Mr. Poppet paid up a week’s rent, quite hand-
some, and they went at once.
“And then that Mr. Snazzle left, too. Someone had
locked him in his flat, and he was angry about it,
although I told him he ought to watch his key better.
I suspected Miss Perry, but I didn’t like to tell her
that that was no way to treat a man she was deter-
mined to marry, not knowing for sure.
“She had another fit of slamming doors when she
found he had gone. But then things began to settle
down again, and the empty flats filled up ; and I was
glad that them lovebirds had left, although the place
did seem a bit empty without them.
“Mr. Wassail took to his old habit of drinking,
and his wife didn’t take it as well as you might think
she would, having been a barmaid herself. Always
quarrelling they seemed. One evening, months after
the lovebirds had gone, they came in arguing like one
o’clock, him with a paper in his hand. And they
come to my flat.
“‘They weren’t married at all!’ yells Mr. Was-
sail as if he thought he was Gable’s horn, which is
enough to wake the dead. ‘l’ve been married under
false pretences.’
“ ‘l’m sure I’d never expect you of it, Mr. Was-
sail,’ I says, took aback. ‘You was always so respect-
able.’
“It wasn’t until I looked at the paper he had
banged on the table that I understood "what had upset
him. It was full of photos, of the big Dunbar divorce ;
and there was the innercent bride, that I thought was
Mrs. Poppet, photographed as the despondent, Mrs.
Dunbar, whose real husband, by his picture, was a
big fat man.
“And the picture of Mr. Snazzle was there, too,
as ‘the private detective who gave evidence this after-
noon.’ It must have been them Poppets who locked
him in his flat before they left.
There was a letter, too, Mrs. Poppet had writ to
a friend in which she said, as if it was a joke, how
they had covered themselves with rice and confections
to look like a honeymoon couple.
“There was enough evidence without calling on
anyone in these flats, it seems.
“After that I’ll never believe in honeymoon
couples again, not if they have rice on them and
wheat and barley, too, and old boots tied on to their
clothes. Them doing a thing like that!”
Mrs. Parsley resumed her dusting with an angry
energy suggesting that she was mentally sweeping
bogus honeymoon couples from the shelves.


There was a big billy, steaming and good, and
they drank it almost boiling. It gave them new life,
and the woman took some to her husband. The men
were grotesque in the firelight, their limbs big with
caked mud and their hands stained brown and red.
The woman’s face was lined with fatigue and anxiety.
“He gets worse all the time,” she aid. “I’m
afraid we’ll be too late.”
“Let me have a look at him,” said Sayers. “Per-
haps there’s somethin’ I can do.”
He went off with the woman, a steadying hand
on her shoulder somehow conveying even in such a
situation that he had achieved an intimacy with her
that other men were denied. It was typical of him,
Williams thought. In the dark Williams’s hands
suffered more often under the hammer. He envied
his mate even the few moments in the dry cab. But
Sayers came out, and worked more furiously than
ever. The old man stoked the fire and started pain-
fully shovelling and struggling around the wheels.
“Good on you, Dad,” said Williams over the side.
“Aw, go t’ hell!” chattered the old man.
The rain came sweeping through the bush again,
stinging their faces. They scrambled about the job,
numbed with cold. Halliday went far into the scrub,
finding tall saplings for shear-legs, and the coarse rope
in the block-and-tackle tore at the damp, frozen skin
of their hands.
There was more tea, after what seemed like a
couple of days, when the old man’s watch said ten.
The sick man was groaning again, and Williams hoped
that the hot drink would quieten him for a while as
the last one had done.
“We’re doin’ fine,” said Sayers. “We’re a good
team, boys. I got the beef, but I can’t waggle them
spanners like you do, Dick, an’ I doubt if either of
us could’ve got them sticks up as quick as Joe has.”
It was just some of Tom’s talk, Williams
thought, but his tired mind glowed. Whatever Sayers
was in town, he had always been the right kind to
work with. It was going to be a long, hard job.
There was not a quarter of the work done yet. He
was already fatigued. But he was going to keep
going.
“Dad’s got two of the wheels dug clear as well
as you could do it yourself,” he said.
“Dad’s doin’ all right,” said Sayers.
“Aw, we had t’ dig ourselves out sometimes even
with the teams,” said the old man.
'T' HE night wore on, the rain fitful and decreasing.
A Their rough structure of logs and posts and rope
grew, and with it they swung great iron parts out on to
the ground. Their eyes were red and they were
bruised and stiff. There was a glow in the east.
“Rain’s going, boys,” croaked Sayers. “She’ll
dry out in a few hours. Once we’re out of here
there’ll be nothin’ on the road to worry us.”
They were down to the bed-plate, the heaviest
part of their load.
“She’d pull this out, Tom,” said Williams wearily.
“She might,” said Sayers. “I wouldn’t try to
drive her clear till daylight, though. I’m drunk and
seeing double. I’d ditch her -again.”
“Let’s leave it an’ get some sleep,” said Halliday.
“No. We’ll be sure,” said Sayers. “It’s the last,
and we’ll pull it off.”
It was tougher than they had expected. It was
going to break the shear-legs, but Sayers was obstinate.
“We’ll lift one end if we can’t manage the lot,”
he said. “Then we can swing her and topple her
over the side.”
The rearmost end rose slowly as they dragged on
the rope. Hauling, they heard the posts creak, but
at last the great lump of iron was almost vertical.
They wearily lay back for a moment’s respite, and
were shocked to alertness as something under the
truck gave way. One of the splintered logs that had
suffered when it rolled back into the bog. The jerk
“They couldn’t kill me! An’ that ain’t because better
men than you blokes haven’t tried.”
had swung the bed-plate towards the cab, and the
leg that took the strain that way was bowing. The
plate would roll over the cab! It would smash it in
and kill the occupants! Halliday sprang for another
post, but it was Sayers who saved the cab.
While the mailman sprawled through the mud
the big trucker placed his shoulders under the plate.
With knees and arms braced against the back of the
cab he heaved hopelessly, but sufficiently to delay the
breaking of the post. When it splintered, Williams,
Halliday and the old man all had light props under
the plate. Its weight could descend only an inch at
a time.
But inexorably it came, in a slow progress more
terrifying than a sudden tumble. The old man’s stick
broke, too, and Sayers’s face in the bright glare of
the spotlight was livid. The big vein that showed in
the centre of his forehead was black and prominent,
and his teeth were bare. Slowly the bed-plate tilted
until his chest was pressed against the roof of the
cab. Then with a final exertion he budged it the
necessary inch, and instead of falling over the cab it
rolled sideways off the truck and fell squelching on
to the mud.
"F HE bush was grey by then, and with only itself
* to pull the truck came out of the mud with com-
parative ease. But Sayers did not live long enough
to see it struggle triumphantly over the saplings in
the trenches the old man had dug. He had been a
muddy corpse with crushed lungs when he had toppled
off the truck with the bed-plate. He lay at the road-
side, and the woman, shocked and tear-drenched, was
making a fuss of his memory, as her sex always had
of the man when he had lived.
Halliday’s eyes were red with weariness, and he
was staggering. His mind was flickering among the
jumble of incidents that had occurred during the long
night of work. He remembered how Sayers had led
and driven them. He forgot the Sayers of the pub
at Ninety Mile.
“He was all right,” he said.
Williams had longer memories of his big mate.
There would be the dead man’s wife and Millie and
a few others who would take the news hard. There
would be men who would receive it without much
grief. His wife would remember him as a better man
than he had been. In a way it was a relief to
Williams himself that he would not again have to
play second fiddle on the outback roads to a boasting,
swaggering, half-civilised partner. But he would
always remember him as a fine mate in a pinch.
Pleasant memories of Sayers were already crowd-
ing out of his mind recollections of black, resentful,
unhappy moments. There were three years to think
over. He wondered if he had really got to know
Sayers in the time. He said nothing.
The old man had little talk left in him. He was
gazing at the brown scrub, thinking with regret of
the camel- and horse-teams of forty years earlier and
the tough, wild men who used to drive them.
“Him and me was the same sort,” said the old
man. “The big bloke said that in the pub, didn’t
he?”
IN THE BAG
BY G. C. B.
1 EETOTAL lectures is all very well for wimmen,
f because there ain’t nothin’ looks worse than a
v -J 'woman wot’s ’ad a drop too much ; but when
Miss Pilkington of the Good ’Ealth.Club
brtngs down Miss Lightfoot, a teetotal lecturer, nothin
would suit the wimmen but to drag their usbands up
to ear er. Mrs. Raggles points out that I ought to
be glad to go because there’s a free concert before
each lecture ; but after I ’ad been to the first one
I couldn’t make up me mind wot was worse—listenin’
to Miss Lightfoot screamin’ abuse at a good ’olesome
drink wot she ’adn’t even tasted, or to young Florrie
Russel screamin about the Sands of the Desert Gettin
Cold and other select music items.
If it ’ad stopped at lectures and concerts I
wouldn t ave minded so much, but after a while Mrs.
Raggles gets so earned away that she starts givin’
me lectures at ome about Beer, the Ome Wrecker,
and callin me dear frtend just as .f we wasnt
marrie • .
I got that way I could ardly enjoy me drinks
on account of them remindin me of wot l was goin
ome to; and then when I gets ome one evenin , weary
and wore out after a ’eavy day’s ratcatchin’, and
Mrs. Raggles tells me she’s goin’ to invite Miss Light-
foot around occasional to ’ave a ’eart-to-’eart talk
with me, I gives up the struggle and done wot she
wanted—promises not to ’ave a drink in the Shelterin
Palm for a ’ole month to see if I’d lose me taste for
beer.
If I’d known ’ow ’ard it was goin’ to be on account
of Miss Lightfoot’s suspiciousness I wouldn’t ’ave
done it. It was bad enough bein’ weighed down ..with
bottles in me bag without ’avin’ ’er follerin’ me about
starin’ at it and remarkin’ on the funny shape of me
traps. She was so curious that one mornin’ while I’m
in the florists investigatin a new smell there she goes
through me bag wot I ad appened to leave outside.
You’d ’ave thought that wot she found in it—a
trap wot was set would ave been a lesson to er, but
unfortunately it only made ’er worse, because when
I gets ’ome that evenin’ I finds ’er there with two
fingers bandaged and lookin’ spitefuller than ever.
“Ernest,” ses Mrs. Raggles, very grim, “Miss
Lightfoot tells me she ’as reasons for thinkin’ you
ain’t keepin’ your promise.”
“Wot!” I ses. “Why, I ain’t ’ad a drink in the
Shelterin’ Palm”
“I ain’t interested in the Shelterin’ Palm,” she
snaps. “I’m interested in wot you ’ave in your bag.
Why do you carry it about when you ain’t on duty?”
“Emma,” I ses quietly, “a ratcatcher’s always on
duty, just like a doctor. Do you think if Dr. Biles
seen someone in the street with a leg broke, or even
a couple of fingers, he’d”
“Excuse me,” ses Miss Lightfoot, jumpin’ up
sudden and sniffin’ ’ard. “ ’Ow long ’as your ’usband
been fond of aniseed, Mrs. Raggles?”
“Aniseed!” gasps Mrs. Raggles. “So that’s why
you’ve been chewin’ that stuff!”
“So I ain’t even allowed to ’ave somethin’ for a
dry throat now,” I ses bitter. “Look ’ere, Miss Light-
foot, I’m keepin’ me promise, and wot’s more I’m
tryin’ to ’elp your work along. Why, I’m even goin’
to do a turn at your concert to-morrer night.”
“Wot can you do?” ses Mrs. Raggles, starin’.
“I ain’t tellin’ no one yet,” I ses. “I’m keepin’
it as a surprise.”
“I don’t want no surprises,” ses Miss Lightfoot,
sharp.
“Very well,” I ses quietly. “But you’re makin’
a big mistake. You’d be surprised ’ow many blokes
L at ’ave never been to your lectures, bachelors mostly,
wot would come up if me first performance is a
success.”
“H’m,” she ses doubtful. “Still, I must know wot
your turn is.”
“I want to surprise everyone,” I ses firm. “But
I’ll tell you all about it just before I goes on, and if
you ain’t satisfied I won’t do it. ’Ow’s that?” •
Well, she couldn’t complain about that, and she
thanks me and goes off quite friendly after promisin’
to let me in the side door of the School of Arts next
night on the quiet.
T ’AD a bit of trouble persuadin’ Mrs. Raggles to go
* on ahead to the lecture, not wantin’ ’er to see me
preparin’ me trained rats wot was goin’ to give the
performance; but in the end I persuades ’er, and
after takin’ a lot of trouble with me rats I pops ’em
in me bag and follers ’er.
It wasn’t till Miss Lightfoot was openin’ the door
that I remembers ’ow interested she was in me bag,
and I slips it down quick beside the steps, not wantin’
me rats interfered with. She didn’t seem to notice it,
and after she ’ad greeted me polite she invites me
to go up and watch the other turns from the side.
She spoke so nice and friendly that I give ’er a few
aniseeds, pointin’ out ’ow good they was for the throat
before speakin’, and then I pops up and stood watchin’
young Bessie Bonney doin’ a dyin’ swan dance.
But I’d ’ardly got interested when there’s a terrible
screamin’ down below, and the next minute Miss
Lightfoot comes tearin’ on to the stage, ’er eyes
stickin’ out, trips over young Bessie wot was just
dyin’ very graceful, and sprawls over the stage yellin’
like a lunatic.
“Rats!” she ’owls. “Oh, oh! Rats!”
I gives a gasp and rushes downstairs, ’orrified,
and there sure enough was me pore pet rats scamper-
in’ about scared out of their wits.
I ’ad put in a lota work gettin’ them rats ready,
paintin’ ’em pretty colors and makin’ neat little top-
’ats with elastic bands, but I was so disgusted with
that woman that I shoves ’em in me bag and walks
straight ’ome.
I meant to ’ave a few words with Miss Lightfoot
as soon as I seen ’er again, but as it ’appened I didn’t
see ’er no more, because Miss Pilkington ’ustled ’er
off that very night and told ’er never to show ’er face
again.
And after I ’ad ’eard a few things I wasn’t sur-
prised. After all, when a teetotal lecturer starts
screamin’ in front of a big audience that she ’as seen
’undreds of pink and green rats with top-’ats on, and
losin’ ’er temper when no one believes ’er, it ain’t a
good advert, for the Cause, especially when ’er breath
smells strong of somethin’ wot’s good for takin’ other
smells away.


boardinghouse-keeper. “Polack,” he calls her, and
she calls him “Irish.” She cuts cold lunches for the
other boarders, but every noon she takes “Irish” a
warm lunch to where he is at work and sits with him
while he eats, just to be with him a little while. She
gets run down one day by a special express. Joe
sees it coming up behind her, but she can’t hear it
because of the noise of another train.
He takes to the road again—this time to get away
from an image that is always before his eyes. Another
girl gets him eventually. He doesn’t want her par-
ticularly, but she is a clinging, wheedling little thing
and unhappy in her home life. They set in a three-
room flat with furniture on time payment, and, gener-
ally speaking, Joe is satisfied with his new way of
life. Then he loses his job at the same time that a
couple of million other men lose theirs. Terry, his
wife, who has continued working to get the home paid
for, manages to keep her job. Joe is living on her,
and doesn’t care for the role. He gets temporary
jobs in near-by towns, with long intervals between.
In the end he loses heart, sends Terry what money
he has, together with a letter telling her to forget
about him, and jumps a train out of town.
Follows a story of hobo life ; of a youngster
growing more and more hopeless of getting work,
souring mentally as he broods over the past. Without
fully realising what is afoot, he teams up with a
couple of amateur desperadoes. They hold up a
garage and a man is shot. Joe is in hiding in a distant
town when Terry unexpectedly arrives. If he is going
hobo she is going hobo, too. Whatever happens they
are going to meet it together—and this they set out
to do.
Corcoran is not the complete novelist. He leaves
his pattern of life half finished, for, while Joe, when
he marries Terry, buries his memory of Helen, he
buries it alive. There is the feeling that the Helen
motif, probably in the person of someone else, will
burst into the light at some future time. The emotional
moment when Terry rejoins Joe is the end of a chapter,
not of a book. This does not condemn the yarn, for
Corcoran has strong feeling for life in detail and a
natural style.
Although the last half offers ample opportunity,
This Man Murray is remarkable for its complete lack
of social criticism —as if Joe and his author are iden-
tical in being thoroughgoing individualists who would
scorn to blame their troubles, or any portion thereof,
on society.
Colliers of Glamorgan.
In Bidden to the Least (Hamish Hamilton), Jack
Jones, portrayer of the Welsh scene, gives a picture
of industrial life in Glamorgan, particularly among the
colliers of Merthyr Tydfil, from 1865 to the early
years of this century. The title refers in part to the
introduction of English and Irish workmen at a time
when the supply of labor was below the demand and
wages comparatively high. The “foreigners” lived in
colonies of their own and were not popular with the
Welshmen.
The story traces the lives of members of one
family, the menfolk pitworkers and the two girls
brickyard laborers. The father and two of the sons
are killed in the mines ; two other sons emigrate to
America ; one of the girls becomes a singer of inter-
national repute ; the other—she stayed at home to look
after dad and the boys—curls in on herself, though
she unfolds a little toward the end when the singing
sister, of whom she was profoundly jealous, dies and
she is free to develop a friendship with the dead
woman’s husband. The youngest of the sons escapes
the pit with the help of his sister. He gets a white-
collar job with an auctioneer, and is the pride and
marvel of colliers’ row because “he can make a living
without working.” There is a small army of second-
ary characters, each standing for something in the
life of the community, but glimpsed and gone before
the reader has time to get well acquainted with them.
The book is ambitious in its scope, but best in its
lesser detail: a woman sobbing in her doorway as
she watches her youngest, aged eight or nine, going
off to be his father’s “butty” down in the pit; brick-
yard girls singing part-songs during their lunch hour;
the flooding of a pit; a glimpse of a collier working
on his side at an eighteen-inch coalface ; the mine
timberers’ pride of craft; the lives of pit horses; a
small boy minding a door for the coal-haulers and
fighting rats in the dark ; miners drinking themselves
stupid on Saturday nights and repenting before the
Lord on Sunday mornings. There are some good
close-ups, too, of the amusements of the earlier years ;
the small, dimly-lit wooden theatres where feasts of
melodrama were provided. A player coming before
the curtain to touch a match to the footlight candles
meant that the show, was about to begin and was a
signal for an anticipatory outburst of clapping and
stamping from the audience.
The book has the fault of being overloaded. The
author surveys Welsh religious and musical life, labor
troubles, the growth of a Parliamentary Labor party,
inter-racial squabbles, the exodus to America, the
rise of the steel industry, the development and decline
of the coal industry It is done in the guise of fiction,
of course, and is good stuff by a man who knows his
field, but from the ordinary reader’s standpoint it
breaks the back of the story.
Ancient Egypt Revised.
Winged Pharaoh, by Joan Grant (Arthur Barker),
reaches Australia supported by a record of immense
popular success overseas.
The story is of Sekeeta, an imaginary princess,
daughter of the Pharaoh Za Atet, told by herself
while she was still in her early girlhood. She became
joint ruler of Egypt or Zam with her brother Neyah
on the death of her father in battle against the
barian Zuma. By her father’s wish, because she had
mystical gifts, she stripped off her royal rank and
entered the long and arduous training for the priest-
hood. This brought her after initiation into the highest
rank of kingship, that of the Winged Pharaoh. There-
after her life as a mortal woman was absorbed into
her virtual godhead—except for a very small, bitter-
sweet love interest.
There is very little story ; its place is taken by
detailed descriptions of ancient Egyptian life, the rites
of birth and death, of marriage, of the dealing out of
justice, of the receiving of tribute, royal progresses,
banquets and hunting, and long dissertations on the
art of healing, the meaning of dreams, etc. The piece
de resistance is the description of Sekeeta’s initiation
into the priesthood, a terrible ordeal in which she was
sealed in her tomb for four days and forced her
quailing spirit upon that grand tour of hell and
heaven that completed her wisdom. All this is strange,
new, and will probably be fascinating to many readers,
though scarcely the main attraction of the book.
Winged Pharaoh is a novel of escape, a conso-
lation prize. The country portrayed is more like
Avalon or Utopia than the ancient Egypt of history.
The age is the Golden Age. For every ill there is a
mystic cure, redress for every wrong, a righteous law
for every occasion ; even death is sweet, gentle and
to be desired. Practically all the characters are
presented as beautiful and noble, without spot or
blemish. The Pharaoh Za Atet is really an uncon-
scionable prig.
Father’s judgments were always right. When he
ruled, Justice and Pharaoh and the Scales of Tahuti
were three ways of saying the same thing. He had
all these thousands and thousands of people to look
after, yet everyone who talked with him felt that they
alone filled Pharaoh’s heart. His soldiers were his
brother warriors: he knew their names, even if he hadn’t
seen them for years, and he remembered how many
children they had, and where their homes were A
child could talk to him and be as sure of his under-
standing as if he were a child himself.
Where there was no rational way round difficul-
ties there was always a north-west passage by dreams
and magic—a magic smothered in jargon. Such sub-
jects as the marriage of royal brothers and sisters are
explained away as purely ritual and symbolic. This
was not so ; it was a device for securing the purity
of the succession, and the Pharaohs’ stock was so hardy
that it stood this inbreeding for centuries —a much
more interesting phenomenon.
Winged Pharaoh is the perfect fairy-tale written
in a style as smooth, transparent and colorless as
glass. It should appeal irresistibly to patrons of
fortune-tellers.
Goya on War.
From Allen and Unwin a series of 85 etchings by
Goya, The Disasters of the War. The reproductions
are of the original size, well printed and with the titles
in English and Spanish. The subjects are rugged,
passionate, living in treatment, and apt.
They depict war shorn of political significance ;
war in its human implications. Realism and symbol-
ism are welded together. They are at once universal
and strongly individual. Man is shown as avenger
and martyr. The cruelty that is behind him and the
heroic nobility that his imagination has touched are
fused in Goya’s bitterness. He sees man as equally
tragic in his depravity and his sublimity. Every picture
has the air of having been drawn from life, all are
instinct with movement, a swirl of desperate activity
under a low stormy sky.
The book fascinates the imagination, each picture
bursting with a detonation on the mind.
Journalism with a Kick.
Wandering through the cavalcade of Australian
journalism at the Fisher Library celebration show,
one shuddered to think what those tough lads who
pioneered our Inky Way would have said about the
noble knights who sponsor Bungeye the Sailor and
“Nix,” or whatever they call it.
When O’Shaunnessy, ex-convict, slipped into the
editorial chair of the “Sydney Gazette,’’’ John Dun-
more Lang’s “Colonist” ran five columns of brevier
demanding to know why this scoundrel, still suffering
from the itch of the leg-irons, was in a position to
force his opinions on the gentlemen of early Sydney.
It would add a bit to general gaiety if the editor
of the “Labor Daily” strolled up “Granny’s” marble
stairs to settle a little variation of opinion with a
horse-pistol or horsewhip. This was just an old
editorial custom in early Sydney.
The “Satirist” was about the hottest thing that
ever saw a printer’s press in Australia. The editor
and his assistant were given 12 months in the cooler
to relax from the strenuous duties of early colonial
journalism. Mr. Justice Dowling was referred to as
Just-ass Dowling.
An early-day Elegant Extract:
Jane was yesterday sent to the mill for six
days. Jane cheeked her master and demanded brandy
for her Christmas pudding.
M.McD.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
No More Ancestors : Lewis Robinson (Nicholson
and Watson). Crime in a garrison town. Sleuthing
mixed with a clash between two brothers, a love
interest and broad satire at the expense of the military.
Holds together as a yarn and provides a chuckle
or two.
Commander of the Mists: D. L. Murray (Hodder
and Stoughton; Moore’s Bookshop). A romance
of Bonnie Prince Charlie moving between London
and Edinburgh. Murray has qualities to suit a lot
of readers —dependable historical background, accept-
able literary style and strong plot interest.
General . . .
Country Matters: Clare Leighton (Gollancz).
Village life in England, illustrated with woodcuts by
the author. Good on both the artistic and literary
side, the latter livened by a touch of humor.
Snow on the Equator: H. W. Tilman (Bell). Gold
prospecting, elephant hunting, mountain climbing and
finally a 3000-mile bike ride across what used to be
Darkest Africa. A good adventure yarn.
Battling with Sea Monsters: F. A. Mitcheli-
Hedges (Duckworth). Angling for excitement in West
Indian waters, the writer hooks sawfish, leopard rays,
sharks and other man-eaters. He tells a good tale.
Everyman’s Literary Guides (Dent). Twenty
pamphlets bound in one volume, telling the literary
associations of towns and counties throughout the
British isles; the map, showing the Lorna Doone
country in Devon, Macbeth in the far north and the
Brontes and even the Venerable Bede in Kent, would
be valuable to the tourist. Publication, which is free,
shows the geographical range of the excellent Every-
man’s Library; the series includes at least one classic
located in every principal county.
Art Without Epoch, compiled by Ludwig Gold-
scheider (Allen and Unwin), contains 140 photographic
reproductions of graphic and sculptural art. Several of
the examples, exhibiting what moderns call the prin-
ciples of expressionism and impressionism developed
to a very high degree, date back 3000 years and more.
Chinese and Japanese art is not neglected, and there
are excellent reproductions of little-known paintings by
Goya and Velasquez and of figures by that wonderful
Italian sculptor Guido Mazzoni. Even the “bird’s-eye
view,” familiar in these days of aviation, is not
new. Leonardo da Vinci drew such a scene in 1508.
“Giglamps”: St. John Ervine, reviewing Best
A ustralian One-act Plays in London “Observer,” opines
that some of the plays are not good enough for
inclusion in a book of this kind, but thinks that those
that are good can bear comparison with the best from
anywhere. He ranks Sydney Tomholt’s “Searchlights,”
Vance Palmer’s “Ancestors,” Edgar Holt’s “Anzac
Reunion” and Betty Roland’s “Morning” as the best
of the collection. Of the book as a whole he says
that Australians, judged by their playwrights, have
found the Greek despondency about death but not the
Greek joy in life.
An exhibition of Oils, Water-colors and Etchings, etc., by leading Australian artists, at the Macleod Gallery, 252 George Street, Sydney.
Admission Free. Open Week Days, 10 a.m. until 4.30 p.m. ; Saturdays, 10 a.m. until noon.


Wappiness
IS WITH
NOW!
mm
W®
m
SB
mm
m
i mMW
m
mm
m
m
m
mm.
w\
m
4
rr
U
—and we are going to ensure that happiness stays with us by retaining
the Stevens Government. Its prosperity - bringing policies have proved it
the most efficient Government this State has known, and its programme
is certainly the most progressive ever submitted to the electors a
programme that will bring about still greater prosperity and happiness in
the whole community.”
RETAIN THE
tevens CLovernment
AND
PRO
PER I T Y
Authorised by H. W. HORSFIELD, 30 Ash Street, Sydney.


ROYAL
PURPLE.
PARA
■' I
. :«
5 1
Wmmmm
■I
* ■ '
.
wmm
miWimMMmMmSmMmSi
mmm
■:9 k WW<
HiilS
Sill*
a m
.
Wiii 1
V ■■
■
H
■
HU
HHI
■
;:::
■' B
mmmm
9^ c 9
mm
. : .
■
■Mil
1181
Sr!
i'A
mum*. ~;
■
■
:# ; -
• 'A •
m
v
1 R 8
Another Interior View of One of the Huge Storage Cellars .


POLITICS FIRST.
‘British bluejackets, one of whom was killed, heroically rescued 366 souls from the sinking rebel cruiser Baleares; but pro-Valencia papers which have published yards
of atrocity stuff were noticeably cold.”
“Hey, you mustn’t save HIM. He’s on the wrong side.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .). Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New, Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British ■
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
NO INTERVENTIONIST WAR !
Australians who refuse to be drugged with daily-
newspaper dope have learned with astonishment that
New South Wales doesn’t, after all, shelter the silliest
Labor party in the Empire. Events have demon-
strated to them that Attlee Labor is sillier than Lang
Labor, and, if it reaches the Treasury benches, may
involve them in trouble greater than even interest-
• repudiation, the Savings Bank smash, the attempted
levy on capital (a “Labor Daily” mortgage excepted),
State bankruptcy and the fear of civil war.
But the Sydney “Morning Herald” sticks to its
idea that Lang Labor is “the limit.” As soon as the
N.S.W. election date was fixed, it began hitting Lang-
ism to leg in its old fashion. At the same time, the
substance of its articles on the Anthony Eden affair
has been used by Attlee Labor in support of the
craziest course of action on which a British party has
ever embarked.
The “Morning Herald” is pro-Eden. It is, of
course, entitled to take that stand in its editorial
department, but pro-Edenism has been smearing itself
over columns supposed to be reserved for news, and
no newspaper with a tradition of fair reporting can
get away with that sort of thing. Even when the
Prime Minister carried his party with him in the
House of Commons, the boomed Eden failing to get
a single Coalition supporter except the exploded
Churchill (and he wasn’t game to vote), the “Herald”
showed a singular reluctance to let the Chamberlain
dogs get the better of it.
In the Adelaide “Advertiser’s” report of the
debate “Mr. Chamberlain made a great fighting
speech.” On the other hand, “Mr. Lloyd George’s
attack on the Government fell far below the level of
earlier days,” and “Mr. Churchill likewise dis-
appointed.” The words “great fighting speech” and
the criticism of the Lloyd George and Churchill
efforts did not appear in the “Morning Herald’s”
version. According to the “Advertiser,” “Mr.
Chamberlain’s trenchant declaration of the new
foreign policy and the boldness with which he wrote
down the League’s value, as it at present exists,
showed him, ordinarily the coldest and most imper-
turbable of men, capable of fiery indignation, and as
possessing the quality of great leadership.” The
“Morning Herald’s” version was the same down to
the word “exists” ; then followed the words “recap-
tured his followers,” which give an impression very
different from that produced by the “Advertiser’s”
report. And instead of “the quality of great leader-
ship,” the “Morning Herald” had “qualities of
leadership not seen before.”
There followed in “Morning Herald” leaders a
series of snarls to the general effect that Australia
was shocked at “the circumstances surrounding Mr.
Eden’s resignation,” and was annoyed because its
Government hadn’t been consulted about it. The
shock and the annoyance were confined to the
“Morning Herald” office and to the haunts where
ladies and gentlemen of the League of Nations
Union pursue shadows and dream dreams. The
“Age” and the “Argus” supported Mr. Chamberlain’s
action from the beginning, the “Age” saying that
“the great majority of Australians regard the change
with favor and hope.” But the gist of “Granny’s”
disgruntled articles was cabled to London and quoted
as evidence of “Dominion discontent.”
Knowing, no doubt, that the “Morning Herald”
draws a lot of its foreign news from Attlee Labor’s
“Daily Herald,” the London “Daily Telegraph”
blamed the “Socialist Opposition” for having “rather
disquieted Australia” (i.e., “Granny”), “thanks to the
effect of exaggeration and misrepresentation.” It
added that if the “absurd” idea that Mr. Chamberlain
would sacrifice Imperial interests to purchase Italian
compliance were really entertained in Australia (i.e.,
“Granny’s” office), the fault was attributable less to
“the Australian public” ( i.e ., “Granny”) than “to the
extravagance with which British socialists, who are
not the foremost defenders of Imperial interests, have
conducted their agitation.” But Attlee Labor wel-
comed its strange ally with delight.
Attlee Labor had already thrown off the mask.
In a manifesto to which the Trade Union Council
subscribed, it “reaffirmed its uncompromising oppo-
sition to any agreement with either Fascist Italy or
Nazi Germany on the basis indicated by the Prime
Minister” —who said nothing more than that he pro-
posed to enter upon conversations. This completely
mad refusal to treat with Germany and Italy because
of their forms of government—for that is what it
amounts to —was at once denounced by the Labor
Lords Ponsonby and Arnold, and Lord Arnold and
the old blind Labor Lord Sanderson have resigned.
Mr. Lansbury, who led the party before it went off
its head, is also horrified at its descent to a wild
Muscovitism which preaches hatred of and talks fight
to Powers not in the collective-security business, in
crazy reliance on a set of politicians at Paris and
another set —even more discredited —at Moscow, who
were to prove utterly helpless when their bluff was
called.
Having thus laid it down that there must be no
peace by negotiation, Attlee Labor turned against
rearmament. When the Government’s defence policy
was debated —the Prime Minister said it comprised
protection of Britain, preservation of trade routes,
protection of British territories overseas and co-
operation in the defence of allies, if any—the Attlee
Laborite Lees Smith invited the House to “condemn
the provision of immense armaments to further a
dangerous and unsound foreign policy.” The “Morning
Herald” says “members of the Labor party were
not well represented.” The “Age,” which gets the
same service, made it “Labor members only sparsely
attended,” adding, as did “Granny,” that “Mr.
Chamberlain, looking at their seats, said, ‘Labor
wants to vote against defence, but does not think it
prudent to go to the electors and tell them.’ ” Although
there are 160 Labor members and 21 “Liberals” and
a Communist, the amendment was defeated by 351
to 134.
Oi# the same day, the Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
came out with an article by the gentleman who gave
his name to the Major Attlee battalion of the Red
army in Spain, and whose visit to Spain for the chris-
tening has been recorded in Communist press photo-
graphs and panegyrics all the world over. The “Daily
Telegraph” has been keen on “positive action against
Japan,” and Mr. Attlee is anxious to oblige.
I suggest action at once along the following lines:
The United States, France, Holland and the British
Empire should agree to refrain from granting any credits
to Japan.
As a next step, all Japanese imports should be
banned.
The Powers could put an embargo on the export
to Japan of all goods definitely classed as war
materials [wool among them, no doubt].
Joint action on these lines by a group of nations
which included the British Empire, the U.S.S.R., France
and Holland, with the United States taking parallel
action, would soon force Japan to halt in China.
This relegation of the United States to “parallel
action” rather suggests that the gentleman really
wrote “The U.S.S.R.” and not “The United States”
in his fijrst point, and that he or the “Daily Tele-
graph” has blundered. In any case, he envisaged the
U.S.S.R., ruled as it is by merciless savages trembling
for their skins, as a powerful ally, and he boasted
that if the Japanese resisted “We would soon teach
them sense.” In the light of what had happened on
the Yangtze, at Washington and at Moscow, and of
what Hitler must have already decided upon when the
Attlee article appeared and what he has now accom-
plished—the Nazification of Austria—only an imbecile
would suggest such an alliance and such a war.
But imbeciles can be dangerous, and this imbecile
is the leader of his Majesty’s Opposition. And the
Nationalists have been in office since 1931, and the
British electorate is preponderantly female ; moreover,
it has been fed for years on provocative newspaper lies.
The Government has been losing by-elections; it may
be forced to consult the constituencies, and in the
constituencies it might be unable to persuade vast
masses of noodles that —the only alternative being to
go on drifting to war —it had to drop the League and
let that dear handsome Mr. Eden go.
Already the friends of Eden are raising the cry
that the German invasion of Austria is an effect of
the dropping of their idol—or dupe. Actually, it is
a consequence of his fatuous foreign policy, and, in
particular, of his alienation of Italy, the one Power
that was in a position to send an army into Austria
that the Germans could not stop, and thereby to
make Hitler pause.
History will laugh at the infatuated proceedings
of Attlee Labor in the imminence of a crisis of which
full warning was given. In the compass of a few
days it demands intervention in Spain (Mr. Cham-
berlain mentioned this in his speech on defence) and
intervention in China; it denounces peace by nego-
tiation ; and, having striven for years to leave Britain
without the means of defending herself, let alone her
Empire, it votes against rearmament. At the end
of the few days the Germans march to Vienna and
the Brenner Pass, thereby tearing another page out
of the Book of Versailles.
But for the people of Britain and the Dominions
it is no laughing matter. An Attlee Labor Govern-
ment is a real peril. Meanwhile a serious situation
has arisen, and the Dominions will have to decide in
good time what they are going to do about it.
The Australian decision should, of course, be
that this Commonwealth is flatly opposed to participa-
tion in any interventionist war or in any other kind
of war save a war for the defence of the British
Commonwealth of Nations.
March, 1919—March, 1938.
When the leaders of the Russian Bolshevik revolu-
tion had established themselves, their next step was
to place their movement on an international basis.
Accordingly the first World Congress of the
Communist International met in Moscow on March
2, 1919, to adopt a “manifesto” and a “programme
of world revolution.” The work of drafting the new
charters of freedom was handed to Bukharin,
the trusted henchman of Lenin.
On March 6, 1919, the manifesto was adopted
by the Congress and was signed by the presidium or
managing committee. “We, Communists, representa-
tives of the revolutionary proletariat of the different
countries of Europe, America and Asia,” declared it
to be their task to
cleanse the movement of its admixtures of opportunism
and social patriotism and to unite the forces of all true
revolutionary proletarian parties in order to further and
hasten the complete victory of the Communist revolution.
The manifesto dwelt on the “immeasurable vile-
ness” of the rulers of France, Italy, England and
the United States. It proclaimed that “the imperial-
ist war which pitted nation against nation has passed,
and is passing into civil war which lines up class
against class.” It called for the disarming of middle-
classes and the formation of Communist armies
throughout the world.
Communist parties were formed in many coun-
tries. The Australian one came into existence in
1920. It published the manifesto as the basis of its
constitution; published also Bukharin’s officially
recognised Communist Programme of World Revolu-
tion. These, with his A.B.C. of Communism, which
was an official textbook for training young Com-
munists, became the testaments of the new movement.
No phase of Communist philosophy could be ex-
pounded without their use —Fulop-Miller, for
instance, in his monumental Mind and Face of Bol-
shevism, quotes Bukharin, sometimes at great length,
11 times.
The presidium consisted of Rakovsky, Lenin,
Zinoviev, Trotsky and Fritz Platten.
Nineteen years to the day after the meeting of
the Congress which began their work, the last of the
propounders of the new doctrine and the new era
were dragged out of a Moscow dungeon in which
they had been languishing for months.
Lenin, of course, was not among them. Neither
was Trotsky: Trotsky was a fugitive in Mexico under
sentence of death, to be executed without further for-
mality should he ever return to Russia. Zinoviev
was not there either. Having become president of
the Communist International, having had a city and
the main training university for Communist pub-
licists in Leningrad named after him, he had been
caught up in the toils of the organisation which he
built, and shot as a traitor. Fritz Platten, too, had
disappeared, carried off in the revolutionary slime.
But the remaining signatory to the manifesto,
Rakovsky, and its author, Bukharin, were present,
confessing to the evilness and rotten hypocrisy of the
regime which they built up.
Rakovsky had been sent to England, as “official
agent” of the U.S.S.R., to mitigate that country’s
“vileness.” According to his own story, he was at
once blackmailed into joining the British Intelligence
Service, though he joined with the approval of Trot-
sky: and for British Intelligence, according to his
unbelievable yarn, he continued to work until he was
arrested. In prison he was moved to confession
because he “was so shocked at the Fascist aggres-
sion in Spain and China that he realised the enormity
of his crimes.”
Bukharin had written in 1919 that Communism
meant the “redemption of the world from plundering
wars and savage looting,” and was a “measure” which
he considered “worth a life-and-death struggle.”
But in 1938 Bukharin said in the witness box
that, in the year before he began to spread the doc-
trine outlined throughout the world, he was
already plotting to arrest Lenin, along with Stalin,
under whom he has been employed in high offices for
nearly 20 years. He also “confessed” that since
1928 he had been working for the restoration of capi-
talism in Russia. So the curtain was rung down
on the existence of the man who made the word
“liquidate” known to millions as an expression to
signify the blotting out of inconvenient enemies.
With these last active founders of the inter-
national Communist movement, there was a fine
museum of terrorist talent in the box. Two men had
been Ministers, friends and associates of Stalin:
Yagoda and Rosengolz, both marked out for steady
promotion in the Communist party and in the U.S.S.R.
Government since Lenin’s death. Another was “chief
physician at the Kremlin.” The chief physician at
the Kremlin testified that Yagoda had suborned him
and other physicians to murder poor old Maxim
Gorki and his son.
Murder by poison ; murder by acid mist; murder
by placing ground glass in butter; murder for private
ends, such as acquiring somebody else’s wife, and
ruthless assassination for political ends—these were
among the crimes admitted by various persons among
the 21 prisoners. Some of the ruffians confessed their
guilt of spying for England, Germany and Japan ; of
treason against the Communist party and the Govern-
ment ; of sabotage and of a scheme for giving general
short weight to workers as a means of creating discon-
tent. No crime was too black, no perfidy too deep, for
them to acknowledge. No doubt they are all liars
and all scoundrels; whether they are worse liars and
viler scoundrels than the associates who are “liquidat-
ing” them history will determine.
There is one thing certain: a country in which
lying and hatred are part of the system, and in which
treachery and butchery are almost daily common-
places, is the rottenest of allies for the British Empire,
Yet there are Australian newspapers which recently
advocated, and British public men who still advocate
an alliance with it.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Hitler in Vienna.
To understand aright the rapid march of events in
Central Europe, it is necessary to remember that the
Austrians are Germans. E<xcept that since 1918 they
have had no political association with their brother-
Germans. they are as much German as the Westralians
are Australian.
Five years ago, though everyone knows that if
trouble came to Australia they would be among its
foremost defenders, the Westralians voted nearly two
to one for secession from this “indissoluble Com-
monwealth.” Had they been told as a preliminary
that the referendum would be taken in three days,
and that only people of 24 years and upwards would
be allowed to vote, there would have been great
organised protests and tumultuous scenes, even in
peaceful W.A., and it is pretty certain that the
Premier would have had to call off his referendum.
Something very like that happened in Austria.
Dr. Schuschnigg, the Chancellor who made the
Berchtesgaden agreement with Herr Hitler, announced
on March 10 that on March 13 he would ask the
people of Austria, young people under 24 excepted,
to make “ a public profession of faith in their home-
land” —to declare that they were for “a free German
independent Social Christian and united Austria.” He
added that “the sole responsibility for the decision
to hold a plebiscite is mine.”
The “Reichpost,” the official Government journal,
came out with the statement that all voting papers
would be printed with the word “Ja” (Yes) on them,
and would be counted as Yes papers even if “Nein”
(No) or another word was written on it.
Persons wanting to vote “No” must ask for a
special paper.
Then things happened in quick succession. The
issue of the “Reichpost” was confiscated on the ground
that “the instructions for voting” were “not complete.”
Paris newspapers arrived —they assured Schuschnigg
that he had outwitted Hitler, and had “wisely cut
out the Votes of turbulent youngsters by fixing the
age limit at 24.” The turbulent youngsters demon-
strated, and there were counter-demonstrations of per-
sons sporting red carnations. German troops began
to move towards the Austrian frontier. The Schusch-
nigg Cabinet resigned, and a Nazi Cabinet was in-
stalled ; and the German troops marched to a blood-
less occupation.
The independence of Austria was guaranteed by
the peacemakers of Versailles, but at the violation of
that independence the startled world merely looked
on. France, once more without a Government and
torn between Fascism and Communism, could do
nothing. Russia, in which the leaders of the Revolu-
tion are still butchering one another, was equally
helpless. Italy had been thrown into Germany’s arms
by the foreign policy of Mr. Eden, and embittered —
as were the Germans themselves —by the insults of the
British Labor and Liberal parties and their news-
papers. And without active and powerful allies it
would have been madness for Britain to do more than
deliver “a strongly-worded protest,” which its Govern-
ment, of course, did.
It is a very unpleasant business altogether. But it
need not bring war if the German leader respects the
present French and Italian frontiers, as he says he
will do, arid restricts his Czechoslovakian policy to
legitimate efforts to secure for the German minority
rights equal to those enjoyed by the German Swiss.
The world is naturally sceptical of his assurances; but
the British Commonwealth of Nations should not
accept war unless war is literally forced upon it.
Shocks for Crusaders.
Shock after shock has been administered of late to
newspapermen and others who professed to consider
war inevitable, and comfortably reckoned up how
many British Empire men, Americans, Russians and
Frenchmen there would be on one side and how
many Germans, Italians and Japanese on the other.
The first shock came when the Americans refused
the role for which they were cast, and began with-
drawing part of their forces from China, after accept-
ing the Japanese apology for the sinking of the gun-
boat Panay. Then their chief admiral informed the
Senators that unless the Navy was substantially
increased, and that without delay, it could not guar-
antee the safety of the U.S. coasts, let alone attack
an enemy in his waters. This after the Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” had ascribed to President Roosevelt a
declaration for “positive action against Japan” and
demanded that the Commonwealth should fall in
behind him.
Last week brought a succession of shocks. First,
the statement that the latest “liquidation” of old
Bolsheviks in Russia was in part designed to stifle
separatist movements all over the place. This strongly
suggested that in a war against “the Fascist Powers,”
a war in which the British Empire was benevolently
included in advance, the Red Republic would be hard
put to it to defend its own territories, let alone do any
attacking. That this would also be the case with
distracted France was indicated by the resignation
of another patched-up Paris Government—that of
M.. Chautemps. Then Mr. Chamberlain, “in a remark-
ably frank statement on British defence policy,” said
that “Britain’s strength lay in its great staying power.”
The maintenance of naval bases at strategic points in
various parts of the world is not as vital as the defence
of our own country, because, so long as we are unde-
feated at home, even if we sustain losses overseas,
we may have an opportunity of making those losses
good afterwards.
This was interpreted to mean that, if war came,
Britons would have to concentrate on home defence
and leave the Dominions to look after themselves.
It does not necessarily mean that, but parties who
blithely contemplated the prospect of Australians
crusading for Red China and Red Spain and —on
general principles—against “Fascism” were consider-
ably startled.
Though not one of those parties, the Labor
Premier of Tasmania was shocked into proposing “the
introduction of universal physical and home-defence
training” to the State Labor Conference at Burnie.
His arguments shocked conference into recommend-
ing unanimously that “universal physical and home-
defence training” should be a plank in the national
Labor platform; affirming also that “the defences of
Australia should be strengthened as speedily as is
possible.” For The Bulletin this reversion to pre-war
Labor policy was a pleasant shock, and it is prepared
to experience more of the same kind.
Lastly came the shock of the bloodless German
invasion of Austria. It found France without a
Government and the U.S.S.R. with a Government
whose members were busy shooting one another. Our
other “ally,” the U.S.A., said, in effect, that it was
sorry for Austria, but it couldn’t interfere. This seems
rank ingratitude to the Sydney “Daily Telegraph,”
which pointed out to the President that “in foreign
affairs to-day isolation is impossible,” and that Austria
is as important to him as Panama.
S.A. Has an Election.
South Australia will dash more political hopes on
Saturday than ever before, for 129 candidates are
contesting 39 Assembly seats and 21 ten seats in the
Council. Mr. Butler, leader of the Liberal and
Country-party Government which succeeded Labor
at the tail of the depression, predicts that his Admin-
istration will be returned for five years. Mr. Lacey,-
leader of the Labor party, predicts that Mr. Lacey
will become Premier for at least three years —he is
against five-year Parliaments. But there are 61 Inde-
pendent candidates, and Mr. Butler and Mr. Lacey
are rather worried about them.
Commonwealth Minister Thorby (C.P.) has
informed Adelaide people that the Independents are
“political opportunists.” Victorian C.P. members are
apt to apply the same term to Mr. Thorby and other
C.P. members of composite Ministries. Like the Labor
people, most of the S.A. Independents are opposed
to five-year Parliaments, and many are against the
betting-shops. In some districts arrangements have
been made for the swapping of Labor and Indepen-
dent preferences.
The nomination of so many Independents points
to serious dissatisfaction with the way things are
going. This dissatisfaction is not confined to South
Australia, and sooner or later it will result in the
organisation of a movement to abolish the six costly,
cumbersome and unnecessary State Parliaments and
Governments.
Good Old Royal Navy!
In a sea-fight off Cartagena, a Nationalist cruiser,
Baleares, was torpedoed. According to a naive Barce-
lona account, there was a terrific explosion, the
cruiser listed badly, firing ceased, and, “to prevent
confusion among their own ships,” the winners with-
drew. Five hours afterwards, as a Red Government
communique reported, they were back in Cartagena.
Boreas and Kempenfelt, two British destroyers,
were on anti-piracy-patrol duty that morning. Sight-
ing the sinking Baleares, they found her deserted and
the crew in an appalling plight. She had been tor-
pedoed three times, her oiltanks had burst, and in the
slimy waters men who had dived overboard could not
swim. Lifelines flung from the British destroyers
slipped through others’ hands.
The gallant British seamen, despite their utmost
efforts, had to watch a mass of humanity drown before
their eyes.
In this extremity Kempenfelt was navigated right
up to the doomed cruiser, from which huge volumes
of smoke were rising, while Boreas stood close by.
Thanks to this heroic manoeuvre “scores of men from
the Baleares leaped on the decks of the Kempenfelt.”
While the rescue work was proceeding Red air-
men arrived and began dropping 500-pound bombs.
Two other Nationalist cruisers came up and opened
anti-aircraft fire. In the perilous job of transferring
survivors to one of them, three Boreas men were hit
by a Red bomb splinter, and one lost his life.
The Baleares sank with most of her company,
but the destroyers landed 38 of her officers and 328
of her men at Gibraltar.
A truly noble chapter in the grand old story of
the Royal Navy ; but it left an atrocity-mongering
press singularly cold. No resentment was expressed
at the insolence of the Red War Minister, who said
to a correspondent that he couldn’t see why British
warships should go to the rescue when there were
rebel warships about. Nor was there any sign of
indignation when Red airmen bombed two other
British destroyers, Blanche and Brilliant, after the
fight. But in one of its issues Sydney “Sun,” an-
nouncing the arrival of the 38 officers and the 328
men at Gibraltar, put up this headline:
SAVED FOR FRANCO BY BRITISH.
And the boss of this insulting rag is a pillar of
the Royal Empire Society!
Some Improvement.
Japanese buying has helped to improve the wool
market, which fell in November to its lowest level for
three years, and which continued to decline till the
end of February. During that month the price aver-
aged only £l4 13s. Id. per bale, against £2l 19s.
last year and £l9 os. 4d. in 1935-36. At Sydney sales
last week values increased to £l5 12s. 6d., or 12.5 d.
per pound. And the fairly brisk competition promises
further rises.
Nevertheless, in the past eight months only
1,795,000 bales were sold, as against 2,126,000 bales
in the same period of 1936-37 season. The money
return was £30,061,000, a fall of over £13,400,000.
At this time last season there were only 418,000
bales awaiting sale in store; now there are 831,478.
On present prices they should realise another
£13,000,000.
Generally speaking, the worst seems to be oyer.
Russia has been buying wool fairly heavily in Eng-
land —2,000,0001 b. was exported thither from Brad-
ford in January. Stocks are down everywhere.
Unemployment in the British wool trade is 17
p.c. But some British firms have been buying tops for
delivery in 1939, which suggests that they believe prices
to be at the bottom of the well.
Aboriginal Police.
“Askari”: The proposal to form a police force from
the aborigines to control the semi-civilised natives of
such outposts as Darwin is an excellent one. In the
long ago Queensland had such a force, apart from
the black-trackers attached to the mounted white
police. The officers were whites, many of whom
achieved some distinction in later years as members
of the magistracy and officers of the regular police
force.
As late as the early ’eighties patrols of this black
force were in evidence in the far west of Queensland
—I can recall them on the Upper Barcoo. But they
are best remembered for their work among the wild
tribes of North Queensland.
The suggested force for Darwin —it might be
extended to other far-northern centres as efficiency
was worked up—would be raised to do ordinary
police duties among the natives. In South Africa a
special force of this kind exists. Before the Boer War
the republics and the two colonies maintained black
police who kept order among the natives in the
“locations.” In general their work was satisfactory,
though they had to be watched by their white officers
to prevent blackmail and extortion.
Nowadays a native police force is a feature of all
the African colonies. In some of these they perform
such duties as traffic control in the larger towns.
Smartly-uniformed and highly-trained, these men are
in the main keen and efficient.
It is scarcely necessary to refer to the Armed
Native Constabulary of Papua as an example of what
can be done by patience and training with what some-
times appears hopeless material. The Armed Native
Constabulary is a military force rather than a civil
one. Papua also possesses the village constable, who
may be regarded as the civil native constable in
excelsis. These men, dealing only with native atfairs,
are the backbone of the native administration.
It is true that the Papuan is a stationary agricul-
turist, and the Australian a hunting nomad. But,
with some knowledge of both, I am convinced that,
given time and patience, the aboriginal constabulary
could be wrought into a force which would help to
solve many of what the southern Australian dismisses
as aboriginal problems.
This is especially true of the native with white
blood in his veins. Many of these would afford ideal
material from which to mould a caste of non-com-
missioned and even junior commissioned officers in
a force which might in days to come garrison small
outlying posts throughout the Northern Territory, as
did negro regiments in the days of the Indian wars
in the U.S.A.
Rutherford, Bragg and Others.
Two Antipodeans have established a unique record
in science. One was Ernest Rutherford, a Maoriland
farm boy, grounded at Nelson College.
Rutherford went to Europe in his very early
twenties, with no money and no influence. At 37
he had won almost every great distinction available
in the sphere of science, including the Nobel Prize
for chemistry. His work on the atom revolutionised
physics and particularly the application of radio-
activity. He joined the very small band of scientists
on whom peefages have been conferred. He died
director of the great Cavendish Laboratory at Cam-
bridge University.
The university was faced with the formidable
task of replacing him. Having surveyed the world,
it chose the Adelaide-born William Lawrence Bragg.
Bragg is 47. He went to St. Peter’s College and after-
wards to Adelaide University ; then to Cambridge as
an Allen scholar. At 24 he was a Fellow and lecturer
in the natural sciences. At 25 he was the youngest
scientist ever to win a Nobel Prize up to that day—
for work done, in conjunction with his father, on
crystal structure and X-rays.. At 29 he became Lang-
worthy Professor of Physics at Manchester University.
The work of these men and their progress are in
keeping with Australian and Maoriland standards of
ability and originality of thought. The pity is that
these countries lose such sons as Rutherford, Bragg,
Grafton Elliot Smith, Griffith Taylor and Gilbert
Murray.
Half-an'-half Milk.
Melbourne people are again eyeing their milk with
suspicion. According to Dr. John Dale, the city
health officer, only half the metropolitan supply
measures up to “very moderate bacteriological
standards.”
The Health Commission says it is a Department
of Agriculture responsibility. Department of Agri-
culture spokesmen point to legal limitations and to the
fact that in 1936-37 there was an almost 90 per cent,
compliance with departmental standards —which must
be considerably lower than city standards.
As for the Milk Board, it has been conducting
campaigns to increase consumption of milk that,
according to Dr. Dale, is only half as good as it
should be.


“AND IT'S PRINTED
with WIMBLES INKS"
“Tovarisch”: In the entrance to the
aristocratic Ritz in London a dozen years
ago I noticed a lean young man in a
baggy grey suit who strolled in with a
baldish, worried-looking person whose
clothes also had seen better days. They
looked like a pair of commercials steer-
ing towards a quick one after the day’s
work, but they were merely the King of
Spain and the ex-King of Greece, who
dwelt modestly in Brown’s Hotel round
the corner. As they made the entrance,
glory emerged from the pub, a group
arrayed as the lilies —silk hats, spats,
canes, braided morning coats, lemon-
colored gloves—save for one individual
who looked like an Armenian banker
and sported the black Homburg which
Anthony Eden has since made popular.
They stepped aside politely to let the
kings pass. I often wondered if those
kings knew that they were bowing back
to M, Rakovsky, the U.S.S.R. official
agent, who with a few of his destitute
pals had stepped across from the humble
£25,000-a-year flat which Arcos officials
shared in Devonshire House in those days
to quaff the heady nutriment of social-
ism in one of the world’s most expensive
hostelries.
* * * *
“Damascus”: Probably the most dis-
tinguished Hebrew who ever went
down to the sea (B. 2/3/’3B) in
sail was Rufus D. Isaacs, afterwards
Marquess of Reading and Viceroy of
India. He served a term before the mast
in his young days. Jews do go to sea,
but usually not as Jews, and they don’t
become captains in large numbers be-
cause they usually share Dr. Johnson’s
views about the ocean and get back to
land as quickly as possible.
* * # *
“Ex-Imp. Off.”: An officer can’t do for
himself (B. 2/3/’3B) because boots and
buttons have to be cleaned, and there
is strong caste feeling in the Old
Country about boot-cleaning. Even
at Sandhurst, in war-time, we had lackeys
to do our boots. In addition, full-dress
uniform necessitates a great deal of
looking after —with pipeclay and what
not. In the Tank Corps they don’t wear
an elaborate uniform, and a few civilian
handymen could look after a whole unit
of officers.
* * * *
“Six”: Political lawyer Mackay, who
went to England and is now described as
“the first English solicitor to break away
from tradition by having his office estab-
lished in his home,” has merely reverted
to an ancient Sydney tradition. Fifty
years ago and earlier a huge percentage
of the houses in Castlereagh, Elizabeth
and Phillip streets were the homes of legal
lights with their offices on the ground
floor. If the head of the firm chose to
live elsewhere the above-stairs residence
was usually given to a managing clerk;
and legal advice was on tap day and
night to those needing it urgently.
“Scotia”: That Sydney magistrate who
was “bitten” (B. 2/ 3 / ’3B) reminds me.
As Judge Woinarski was leaving Vic.
General Sessions he was accosted by a
laddie who asked for a couple of bob.
The Judge looked round for an arm of
the lav/, but his petitioner assured him
that there were no “splits” in the offing.
“Why should I give you a couple of
bob?” the Judge wanted to know. Back
came the retort: “Last time I appeared
before your Honor you gave me a couple
of years. ’ ’Sonor conceded that that
made some sort of claim, and parted
with a florin.
* * * *
“Sealed Pattern”: I see the War Office
is again experimenting with fancy uni-
forms for Thomas Atkins. Innovations
include ski trousers buttoning at the
ankle for dirivers of motor-equipped units,
and tunics with zip fasteners instead of
buttons. This last is the most daring
departure from tradition. How is the
Officer of the Day inspecting a new
guard to get off the time-honored gag
about a man with a button undone com-
ing on parade being “half-dressed”?
“Don't get shirty, missus — I’m on'y keepin' the seat warm fr yer .”
What will the Q.M.S. do when button-
sticks are abolished and Brasso with-
drawn from issue? Worse than all,
what is to become of the girls seeking
buttons for souvenirs of the loved one
when the regiment goes on active ser-
vice? Even Thomas Atkins, who had to
provide his own needles and thread for
sewing on buttons, will miss them. There
is a fascination about a well-polished
button that far transcends the awesome
aura of even a brass-hat.
“Trefor”: The medico in our village
was puzzled about what was happening
to his petrol. Though he filled the tank
religiously he would run out of juice on
any call that took him far afield. One
night on hearing stealthy potterings in his
gatage he went to investigate. The visitor
boldly walked down the path to meet the
doctor. “I have not been feeling too well
lately,” he remarked lugubriously. “I
didn’t come in the front way because it
was after hours.” Sawbones was suitably
sympathetic, and said he recognised the
symptoms. “You’re going to be a very
sick man,” he remarked after an exam-
ination in the surgery, “but I’ll give you
a prescription, and the worst may be
averted.” His prediction was correct.
The patient was as sick as the most hor-
rible emetic in the Pharmacopoeia could
make him, but he paid up his half-
guinea without a murmur.
S; * *
“Jawa”: In a Sydney suburban rail-
way carriage some ardent Communist
bungled his job rather badly. The usual
anti-Japanese notice was plastered over
a blanket advertisement, not quite cover-
ing it, however, and the result was “Boy-
cott Japan and make ‘good-night’ a cer-
taintv”
* * *
“Kilt”: Old MacPherson is the weal-
thiest man in our district, but likewise the
closest, so when it was represented to
him that his youngest son, aged 12, had
a talent for music, it was very, very
reluctantly that he consented to stand the
youth a trial quarter. After the first
few lessons a delighted mother re-
proached Dad for his lack of enthusi-
asm. “Ye’ll no be able to say Wully isna
good at the piano,” she said. Old Mac
smoked stolidly. “Ay he said at last,
“he brings doon the lid wi’ a fine bang.”
* „ * c * *
Kerys : When a Sydney woman w s
m hospital in Yokohama a couple
years ago she was startled one evening
to see the nurses busy with swathings of
black with which they draped windows
and lights. There was to be, they ex-
plained, a mock air raid that night. Over
the lightless city the raiding ’planes could
be heard above the popping of anti-air-
craft guns, and when a deep rumbling
was added to the din and buildings
rocked alarmingly the astonished popu-
lace exclaimed, “But they didn’t say they
were going to drop real bombs! ” They
hadn’t, but nature, during the “black-
out,” had staged the most severe ’quake
since the big disaster. Only the fact that
the citv was prepared for thrills saved
a considerable panic.
“Apelles Jr.”: Looking over press
reproauctions of some recent Sydney art-
show exhibits, I have been struck by
the deadly monotony of the subjects and
the persistent adherence to the canons of
art which are really little removed from
photography. When are we going to
get a Surrealist exhibition? I have just
been reading some explanatory comment
by one of the masters of Surrealism on
an exhibition which has startled Paris.
He says—
There exists at a certain stage of the spirit
in which life and death, the real and the
imaginary, cease to be perceived in contra-
diction. It would be vain to find any other
motive in Surrealism than the hope of de-
termining this stage.
This great ideal seems to me to be real-
ised as in a lightning flash by the ad-
mitted masterpiece of the show. It de-
picts' a huge soda-water siphon in a
sandy and rocky desert, flanked on one
side by a fried egg and on the other by
a 10-franc piece and a peanut. Away
with your signboard schools. Heil Sur-
realism !
* * * *
“Bill O’Costs”: Perhaps my old-
fashioned professional blood boils at low
temperatures now. But I stagger when
I think what the late Sam Griffith, C.J.,
would have observed if I had informed
him, as “Avon” (B. 2/3/’3B) does Bully
readers, that Myers, C.J. of N.Z., had
“handed down” a judgment about some-
thing. British Judges don’t “hand down”
decisions; they deliver or pronounce
them. Writers and “hand” things
an urge nowadays
about, always accomp .
more or less incongr P P •
They hand down ju g > ,
charity or the contents of a revolver,
hand in their checks and introductions,
hand across the butter and hand around
anything which might just as well be
passed.
* * * *
“Wang”: When our township’s new
had was completed the member of Par-
jjament for the district was invited to
open it Th j s he did; then, though elec-
don day was yea rs ahead, he corn-
menced a political oration that lasted
tdl a j oud voice f rom the rear cried: “I
say , m j ster> that’s pretty dry tack y’r
gi v j’ n ’ us> What about turnin’ it on for
th’ blokes here?” The great man glared
tQwards the j n t er jector, and replied pom-
pously, “My friend, I have to confess
P ft Q know the mea ning of that
burning it on.’ ” “No,” came a
, dotft seem t ’ kno w
meanin , Qf < turnin > it o ff either.”
_ #
* T Wll
Hass : In a Melbourne couit an in-
teflocutory judgment was set aside on the
ground that the writ on defendant was
not properly served. Evidence was that
the server had gone to the building on the
fourth floor of which the defendant co. s
office was registered, f ound it unoccupied
save for workmen who were reconstruct-
ing it, left the writ on the ground floor,
and made an affidavit of service. Plain-
tiff argued that this was legal service,
but Justice Martin disagreed. “Service”
is a fine point in Australian cities. In
other countries they make the Court
responsible for proper delivery of sum-
monses to appear before it.
* * * *
“K.Mc.”: It was at a tourists’ camp
on the N.S.W. South Coast. Miss Nine-
teen and Master Seventeen, with four
tiny tots in tow, at the little store near by
for the day’s supplies. The soft-voiced,
gentle proprietress beams benignly at
Miss Nineteen. “Well, dearie, and what
can I do for you to-day?” At Master
Seventeen she casts incredulous eyes,
then surveys the kids. “What lovely little
children!” More perplexed than ever,
she now turns back to Miss Nineteen:
“You weren’t even married when you
were here before, were you, dearie?”
* * * #
“0.L.”: My decease in the near future
can be chalked up to the debit of “Sakit
Prut.” His comprehensive statistics (B.
9/3/’3B) inspired me to take pen and
paper and lose myself in a whirl of
figures. I compiled tables giving irre-
futable proof that in the 365 days of a
year I have minus five days’ leisure. In-
vestigating further I discovered beyond
reasonable doubt that should my allotted
span stretch to 60 years several months
of that time will be taken up in exchang-
ing inanities with neighboring flattites.
But what led to my buying a cheap re-
volver was the prospect, if I lived a nor-
mal life for another 40 years, of undoing
and doing up at least 750,000 buttons.
MARCH, 1938.
We have all our favorite seasons, for sound or
shadowy reasons
Often, I think, depending on where we were
born and bred;
Each month, from Jan. to December, brings
something good to remember
Along with some discomfort from which we
would fain have fled.
But the time of year that I sense with least
zip and could best dispense with,
When foreheads need extra mopping and col-
lars soon lose their starch,
Is the one when most hearts grow glummer at
the kick of a dying summer,
The vicious kick of a summer that lasts too
far into March.
Does it give you a scrap of profit, do you get
any comfort off it,
To learn that it’s really autumn in the lexicon
of Mares,
And those mythical hounds whose places should
be hard upon summer’s traces
Have lost their proper keenness for seasonal
affairs?
For me, instead of contentment, it fills me with
more resentment,
In days that scorch and wither, in nights that
melt and parch;
It seems like a sharp and gingery insult atop of
injury,
Officialdom’s reminder that summer is stopped
by March.
No doubt it’s a joy and pleasure, this generous
extra-measure
Of sun for the crowds whose leisure is spent
by the ocean’s hem,
Or the ices-and-soft-drink sellers to tourists and
seaside-dwellers,
Or even the Bungs and brewers —it’s all very
well for them;
But I sometimes fancy, mark you, there’d be
less to irk and nark you,
Even in smoky London, from the Bank to the
Marble Arch,
Than where summer, recreant unto the schedule
it’s timed to run to,
Laggardly loafs and lingers too long in the lap
of March.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Wodgil”: “Accidental death” was the
City Coroner’s finding in the case of the
Rodney, which went down with 19 poor
creatures in Sydney Harbor on Feb. 13.
It can’t possibly be accepted as the last
word on the tragedy, especially as the
coroner said that the master of the Rod-
ney had “broken a regulation in allow-
ing too many people on the top deck,”
and on that head had “disregarded the
advice of passengers.” People who use
the harbor —and in the course of a
twelvemonth more than a million do —
will want to know more about harbor
regulations and responsibility for observ-
ing them. The Rodney was licensed to
carry 211 passengers—lsl on the main
deck and 60 on the top deck, and regula-
tions were complied With when the crew
consisted of a master and a deckhand.
Police evidence was to the effect that
there was no decided list till the launch
capsized. And it was established that
she was never in the Louisville’s wash.
* * * *
“T.”: In the lowering of journalistic
standards exhibited in the prevalence of
provocative fiction labelled foreign news,
and of illustrations reminiscent of the
dirty photos, sold by dirty niggers at
Port Said, chivalry has suffered. When
I became a police-court reporter (at 17)
it was a standing rule that names of
“drunks” should be left on the charse-
sheets unless there were previous convic-
tions. I remember giving the benefit of
this wise tolerance to a champion pug
—“from the Green Isle of Austria,” he
said he was —and his gratitude was
almost pathetic. Nowadays any young
man “in the news” can expect to see his
name in print if it has been taken by
“Station XY? in that last exercise did the instructor say touch your
KNEES with your CHIN or vice versa ?”
a John after a night out. A recent case
was that of a representative cricketer
who attended a valedictory to the Aus-
tralian Eleven and fell foul of a con-
stable going home. He denied that he
had had a skinful, and the case was dis-
missed ; but that didn’t prevent an after-
noon rag dishing up a column about it.
.The New Journalism’s troubles if it got
a decent youngster the sack!
“Avon”: News from M.L. that the
Waikite geyser has resumed geysing is
reassuring. The failure of so many well-
known and formerly-respected geysers to
do so has been doing much to impair
parental discipline throughout Fernland.
About the earliest moral lesson any
Enzed kid gets is the tale, solemnly told
by mum or gran, of the Three Bad
“Y’ can't say a man don't love y' w'en 'e names ’ees barge after y '!”
Children who were taken to see Wai-
mangu, at Rotorua. Their mother bade
them stand well away, but heedless of
her counsel they stepped right up to the
brink of the thermal fountain, which
forthwith erupted several million gallons
of Boiling Mud. No trace of the dis-
obedient children was found for years
and years, when one day the mud shifted
and three small skeletons, the bones
gleaming eerily, were revealed to an
aghast world. A strongly dramatic story,
but it’s no use telling it if the kid is
going to read in the newspaper next day
that Waimangu hasn’t erupted since Bill
Massey died.
“Carouse”: The weather was hot and
the ship was in light trim when we left
Sydney on our c-ruise to Lord Howe
Island. The gentle swell did things; the
long steamer chairs on deck were clut-
tered with people who muttered
“And this is a holiday!” when you
sympathised with them, and then en-
treated you to fetch a bottle of soda-
water. Bragg was in his element. “Tea
or coffee this morning, lady?” he’d
burble coming on deck. “And would you
like two or three pork-chops?” Ghastly
faces would turn into the pillows, ahd
Bragg would light a cigar and tell how
his ship once nearly went down in the
Bay of Biscay. The day after leaving the
island, sports were going on among the
quick and only half-dead, and Bragg, a
committeeman, was being hollered for.
He was on deck two hours later.
“Must’ve got a touch of the sun on Lord
Howe,” he explained thickly. “Got a
head like a concertina.” He was
down for dinner, but when the steward
was later feeding those in “the morgue”
on deck some pineapple took his eye. He
grabbed a piece and ate half of it. He
stood up, fell oyer a chair, and caused a
wild scatter as he raced to the open end
of the deck. The “seasicks” sat up in a
body and cheered almost joyously. They
were nearly all up and about next day.
Bragg was the quietest man on the ship.
* * * *
“Xo”: The city councillors aren’t the
oldest things in Ballarat (B. 9/3/’3B).
There’s a walking-stick in the Spielvogel
museum which was cut from a eucalypt
found 180 ft. below surface and under
100 ft. of basalt. Geologists say the basalt
flow occurred about a million years ago,
and local historians reckon the wood of
the walking-stick must be as old as any
unpetrified wood in the world. A faded
statement attached to the stick and
signed S. H. Walker explains that, m
1883, it was cut from a tree the length
and girth of which the Haddon Mining
Go. diggers didn’t bother to waste time
finding out. But it was a big one.
“Au Lait”: A threat by Syd-
ney’s milk-bar kings to boycott
the cow and sell only fruit
drinks, because the price they
pay for milk has been raised
from Is. 6d. to Is. lOd. a
gallon, raises a wild hope that
somebody with a right to de-
mand an answer will put the
hard word on the milk-and-
malt gentlemen and ask them
just how much milk there is in
a milk-shake. The preparation
of this tipple fascinates me.
The girl, diving rapidly into
various bins, takes a pinch of
Horlick’s, a pinch of something
else, a small dab of ice-cream
and a small dipper of milk,
hooks the container to an elec-
tric stirrer and 10 seconds
later produces about a pint of what is
miles and away the cheapest drink avail-
able over a counter —two sizable glasses
full for fourpence. 1 don’t grudge the
trade any profits it makes out of it. But
I would like to know how it’s done.
* * *
“Angsax”: There’s a nice hearty
hands - across - the - sea - blood-is-thicker-
than-water flavor about the equipment of
Pitcairn Island with an up-to-date radio
station. The descendants of the Bounty
mutineers had been rubbing along for
years with a crystal receiver and a non-
descript transmitter made out of odds
and ends, when an American radio engi-
neer visited the island. When he got
back home he described the outfit in a
technical journal, and the hearts of
American radio folk, both commercial
and amateur, were touched. The trade
weighed in with a first-class modern two-
way telephone set, with a wind-driven
electro-motor, and the amateurs sent two
of their number over to instal the
apparatus. Pitcairn Island can now hear
from and speak to the whole Pacific.
Nice work, and it would be churlish to
suspect that Uncle Sam, indefatigable col-
lector of air bases in those parts, had any
motive but kindness.
* * * *
“D.E.”: When ladies can write and
their feelings are aroused their newspaper
controversies are much more interesting
than those of the other sex. “S. M.
Herald” has rarely published a pithier
letter than that written by Miss Una
Suttor in refutation of “thp statement
attributed to Dame Mary Gilmore in
your issue of March 4 that when she
was a child she had seen aborigines mas-
sacred in hundreds.” “I am not so des-
perately young myself.” said Miss Suttor
with charming candor, “and I never
learned of massacres perpetrated in New-
South Wales in my time.” But that
wasn’t all.
An elderly lady whose childhood years
ran more or less parallel with Dame Mary
Gilmore’s spent her childhood in the Wagga
district, and I understand that on her
father’s station property the Cameron child
who has become Dame Mary Gilmore re-
ceived some of her early education. This
lady assures me that she never saw an
aboriginal in that district in her child-
hood, either alive or massacred.
My father and his brothers had consider-
able experience on stations which supported
aborigines on the Lachlan and in the far
west; my grandfather could speak the lan-
guage of the Ba’thurst blacks; my father,
• the late Hon. W. H. Suttor, was for many
years a member of the Aborigines’ Pro-
tection Board —now unpopular, it seems—
and he loved the aborigines, as his father
had done before him. My mother’s experi-
ences at Borambil, on the Lachlan, com-
menced in 1862 with her marriage—three
years, apparently, before Dame Mary Gil-
more was born.
And there were “no massacres” in Mrs.
Suttor’s experiences. By way of reply
Dame Mary asked “Granny” to “permit
me to mention some of the places where
I have seen the dead.” Permission
granted:
“The Poison Waterholes”... .The bones
of over 200 blacks were gathered and
buried under those mounds.
The massacre written about by a man
(over his own initials) in the “Worker” is
one where I saw the dead all over the
place. The “hunts” by the railway-
workers on the Hay-Narrandera line I
heard all about at the time. The Fiery
Creek massacre we heard of in letters from
friends when it occurred. The head of an
Australian National Gallery told me he
remembered being taken out by his nurse
to see the dead. Had the killers known
that his family was at home they, too,
would have been killed as friends of the
blacks At Butchers’ Flat (Yea), the
lush grass was still full of skeletons when
we saw it.
The referee’s decision is “I can’t separate
these two ladies.”
SMOKE-OH!
“The number of smart women who are smoking
pipes is increasing”— London fashion note.
A cigarette, poised between dainty lingeis
Or lightly by alluring lips entwined,
Helps to create a memory that lingers
Arrestingly in any lover’s mind.
Fags offer blondes with cheeks ot cream and
roses
Dashing brunettes oi any other types
Ot womankind a chance for graceful poses,
Artistic gestures, too, but —Holy Moses 1
What about pipes?
Think what poetic fancies would be stamped
on, ~ ~
How damped the furnaces of bardic hres,
If rows of pearly ivories were clamped on
The stems of corncobs or of bulldog briars .
Those tiny smokes from which faint spirals
taper
Are fairylike, admitted, in theij way,
But who finds fays—even in a flapper paper
Emitting clouds of nicotinish vapor
From yards of clay?
Women, be warned and definitely banish
That quaint delusion of these modern days,
The notion to be femininely mannish
(Or boyish, anyhow) is one that pays.
Confess the herb that good old Walter Raleigh
Brought from the present home of Stars and
Stripes
Lacks any real appeal for Sue and Sally,
From duchesses to ladies of the ballet —
Leave us our pipes!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


2(W16
10 for 9*
WIBB4
All over the world Craven
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality.
&o*ne4i4j(kh
A
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
it
i
ii
mm
Hi
23$
m
..
THIS
TIPPED
um
GENE R A T I
POLITICAL POINTS
How vain are the hopes and decisions
of man the political animal when they
come up against things like race! Not
19 years ago, Lloyd George, Clemen-
ceau and other politicians, gathered at
Versailles, decreed the eternal separation
of the Reich Germans and the Osterreich
Germans. And now
Thus the “Thunderer’s” Rome corre-
spondent, reporting what he learned in
“unofficial circles”:
The Anglo-Italian talks came too late.
Had Britain not postponed them for so
long, the Hitler-Schuschnigg talks would
not have been held.
A quotation from B. 5/1/’3B should
come in here:
If Canning or Palmerston could revisit
the glimpses of the moon, he would marvel
at the fatuousness of his successor in driving
Germany, Italy and Japan into one an-
other’s arms. These countries have no real
bond of union.... The Germans can never
look with satisfaction on the Japanese
occupation of the Carolines and the Mar-
shalls, or on the Italian possession of part
of the homeland of one of the most pat-
riotic German tribes.
The events in Austria at the week-end
rounded off the story of Anthony Eden’s
failure and of the insensate folly of our
anti-Italian press.
There are Independents in each of the
37 Assembly electorates being contested
in S.A. —two in some divisions and three
in others. Never has the Central State
seen such a swarm of Inds. The party
organisations are uneasy, feeling that it
may represent a public revolt against the
betting shops. The L.C.P. introduced
them, and the A.L.P. approved.
Stevens says his Government is going
to “eliminate all taxes on incomes
below £250 a year in respect of persons
with dependants” and to “eliminate wages
tax and special income tax, leaving only
one tax upon income.” Date of elimina-
tion is unspecified, but the boon is to be
conferred “as rapidly as possible.”
According to Forgan Smith, Queens-
land unemployment during Labor’s
period of office has been reduced from
19.9 p.c. to 7.2 p.c. In fact, there are
more persons employed in Queensland
than ever before. So Foggy is taking a
whole tuppence in the pound off the un-
employed-relief tax.
Forgan Smith has disclosed that he, as
well as fellow-Premiers Stevens and Dun-
stan, “studied the extraction of oil from
coal at first hand” when abroad, and
"learned that the point has not yet been
reached where oil can be produced from
coal economically, but ” The other
trippers reported to the same effect, even
to the “but.”
Nomination of British immigrants is
being revived in parts of Australia, and
Pearce has repeated the old cliche, “Aus-
tralia must populate or perish.” About
the same time Ernest Fisk, of A.W.A.,
was saying this :
It is better to have a small population of
high intelligence, integrity and good techni- .
cal equipment than a large population
without them.
And Ernest Fisk is an Australian by
adoption. Perhaps if two in a hundred
immigrants nominated were Ernest Fisks,
even Labor politicians would abate their
hostility to immigration in all forms.
It is hard to pick up a sporting paper
these days without reading that some
black or brown bruiser is coming to Aus-
tralia again—it is generally again—
‘under contract to So-and-so.” Didn’t
the Commonwealth Government once
pass legislation forbidding importation of
contract labor? It ought to be resus-
citated to prevent importation of coons
whose labor is cheap, and whose rela-
tions with white women are often nasty.
Butler showed greater shrewdness than
any of the other provincial Premiers when
he refused to introduce an unemployed-
relief tax on income, preferring to increase
his ordinary income tax rates. Along with
the huge Commonwealth grants he has
been getting, it has enabled him to claim
in the constituencies that in S.A. a basic-
wage man, with wife and child, is exempt
from tax on his pay, whereas Queens-
land Labor taxes him £4 2s. a year, Tas.
Labor £3 55., Westralian Labor 19s. 6d.
and the Victorian C.P. —“kept in power
by Labor”—£l 12s. 7d. This statement,
“ Don’t ride the old moke too hard, Tubby. He’ll do us for a lot more
campaigns yet.”
repeated in Queensland newspapers, has
embarrassed Forgan Smith, but he says
he is going to exempt £4-a-week men
from tax.
One Heffron, a Sydney M.L.A., was
permitted by A.B.C. to bore people for an
hour on the ground that he leads a party
—the “party” is running six (6) candidates
for the N.S.W. provincial elections. How-
ever, in the 12,000 words or so that he
read there was material for a laugh:
We propose to reconstitute the present
Divorce Courts into a Court of Domestic
Relations to bring parties together rather
than to separate them.
As a rule, Divorce Court Judges are mild
men, but if “the policy of the Court”
were changed, as Heffron proposes, they
would need to adjudicate with a six-
shooter in each hand.
N.S.W. is witnessing a mortal struggle
for the Namoi Assembly seat, held since
1932 by Colin Sinclair, now Minister of
Lands; and the Money Masters are
already reeling under the strain. The
Government has promised the electors
waterworks, sewerage schemes, club-
houses and showground buildings regard-
less of cost. Lang is countering with a
whole catalogue of “works for the north-
west, of which the Keepit dam is the com-
mencement.” So far he has chosen to
keep it dark what the dam will cost and
what damfools will finance him.
Lang is out with a Great Development
Policy. He says he will “develop—the
Government lottery to the fullest extent.”
With the obvious intention of crabbing
the Anglo-Italian negotiations, “it is re-
liably reported that 5000 Italian troops
landed at Cadiz.” “Reliably” is the
favorite term of Red and Pink war
reporters, but they really ought to put
an “r” in it.
The Alberta cases have shown that
the Canadian Constitution gives the
national Government much greater
powers in an emergency than Canberra
possesses. Three Have-a-heart measures
designed to squeeze “the national divi-
dend” out of the banks —inter-pro-
vincial concerns —bring them under
Social Credit control and chloroform the
newspapers were unanimously ruled out
by the Supreme Court, “which also up-
held the authority of the national Gov-
ernment to veto the acts of any provin-
cial Legislature.” A Government which
the nation felt it could trust to act
nationally could get a grant of those
powers in Australia.
Radio Corporation Prop., one of the
concerns hit by Canberra’s trade-diver-
sion “policy,” challenged prohibition of
imports by regulation in the High Court.
It was beaten, but Justices Dixon and
Evatt dissented from the majority judg-
ment of their learned brethren, saying
that “the regulation with which the Court
was concerned was so expressed that it
left the Minister with a complete dis-
cretion and did not define the grounds
or purpose of its existence.”
Can anyone believe that in 1901 Parlia-
ment intended to transfer or delegate to the
Executive such a large measure of its
authority to regulate foreign trade?
Nobody can believe that the people
in 1901 would have voted such vast
powers as have been exercised by Minis-
ters and officials if they had been specifi-
cally asked to vote them.
It’s queer to find the usually well-
informed Canberra correspondent of the
Melbourne “Herald” group of news-
papers writing of the Sydney “Herald’s”
pro-Eden campaign as if it had embar-
rassed Lyons dreadfully, and quoting
“the Prime Minister of South Africa” as
having “issued a statement strongly sup-
porting the Eden policy.” What Hertzog
said was this:
Mr. Chamberlain has my full support,
both in respect of the policy pursued by him
and in respect of the methods by which he
seeks to carry out that policy.
That appeared in the Adelaide “Adver-
tiser.”
Blunt old Garvin, of the “Observer,”
told England before Hitler’s coup that
“Czechoslovakia, whose very name is
artificial, will either exist on terms of
friendship and co-operation with Ger-
many or cease to exist.”
Czechoslovakia is a medley ruled by a
minority. The Germans in it were promised
equality on Swiss principles.
How much equality they are getting is
revealed in the admission of Benes,
President of the synthetic Republic, that,
though they amount to 23.3 p.c. of the
population, only “12 p.c. to 14 p.c. of
the officials are German.”
Supporting the toast of the Australian
Eleven in Melbourne, Attorney-General
Menzies recalled that in 1930 and 1934
he supported a similar toast, “and on each
occasion Australia won the Ashes.” Next
time Bob’s Government has a James case
it should arrange to have it heard in a
cricket year and get the Australian Eleven
to drink success to the Government.
“Pantile,” his protest:
As a reader for 45 years I object to the
statement (9/3/’3B) that Bukharin wrote the
Communist Manifesto. Who in the name of
the long-dead Karl M. put that over? Buk-
harin, in collaboration with Preobrajenski,
wrote the A.B.C. of Communism, which all
aspiring “emancipators” had to read and accept.
The Communist party has repudiated the
A.B.C. of C. —not in so many words, but its
appearance is no longer obtrusive—and now
Bukharin is going, too.
Bukharin wrote “a” Communist mani-
festo, not “the” Communist Manifesto.
But does it matter a dump when the
author is as good as dead and damned?
Not so long ago the Dutch in Java
were sending Communists to their New
Guinea colony. Since the Red tail went
down there has been a suspension of the
war against Dutch as well as British “im-
perialism,” and a Communist Deputy at
The Hague has demanded that the
Netherlands East Indies should be pro-
tected against Japan. Doubtless the
gentleman would be charmed to see Aus-
tralians doing some of the protecting.
Matters of policy being now left to
boards and commissions Neale, the new
N.S.W. Transport Commissioner, has
taken upon himself to announce that
“trams in the Manly district, on which
£203,548 has been lost in 10 years, will
be replaced, probably next year, by Diesel
buses, which will reduce the annual loss
by £4000.” That will mean that the
public will still have to find an annual
loss of £ 16,000-odd, besides going into
debt for the capital expenditure and pro-
viding superannuation benefits for un-
necessary employees. It would be infi-
nitely better to let private bus owners do
the job—in that case street transport
mightn’t be a financial burden —but this
alternative never occurs to anti-socialist
Governments.
From an Australian in London:
1 lunched a few days ago with a Spanish
banker. He told me the civil war would be over
in a month if the French frontier, closed in
theory, were closed in practice. He said his
reports were that 80,000 fresh troops, made
up of men from mapy countries, had crossed
the French frontier to assist the Reds in five
weeks; and, as for supplies and munitions, they
have been pouring across. In our papers not
a word is ever said against France.


“BE KIND TO ANIMALS”—BUT NOT TOO KIND.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
m 1
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY,
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
POWER DEPENDS ON SPANKING PLUGS
■ y s£S on Champions
POWER to climb hills. POWER to *
cover the ground quickly. POWER to
give your car greater speed with less
effort, less vibration, less expense. Get
POWER the way racing champions
get it... with CHAMPIONS.
Empire product —made in Windsor, Canada
I ®m:y A
g§
Mil
**
m
**
xjrw*
WJJi
axxMuu
yjTjjjj
yyjjjjjj
JJ J JJJ7S
7 jjj/rr.
jjj'f/A
UJffl
TjSi
31
./Jr**
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERTQNAL ITEMS
A tablet in honor of Bernard O’Dowd
was unveiled recently at Ballarat. It is
the poet O’Dowd who is commemorated
and not his other self, the lawyer who
drafted hundreds of bills for the Vic-
torian Parliament. It was perhaps fit-
ting that a mistake in the spelling of
O’Dowd’s name should have been recti-
fied by Parliamentary action. When his
birth was registered, the Registrar re-
corded the name as Dowd. For many
years it was so printed in the annual list
of civil servants. However, when in
1912 a public service reclassification took
place a bill to legalise the recommenda-
tions was submitted to Parliament, a full
list of officials was appended as a
schedule, and opportunity was taken to
give the poet his correct surname. The
tablet was presented to Ballarat by R. A.
Crouch, ex-M.H.R.
A man of parts is the new Presbyterian
padre at Maroubra (Sydney), Rev.
J. H. G. Auld. A product of Sydney
Uni. and New College, Edinburgh, he
served as chaplain with Australian forces
in the S. African War and the Great War.
He is one of the Australian kirk’s great
authorities on Greek, and has been ex-
aminer in that subject for the Home
Missionary Department for 20 years. He
has been State Moderator, and during
his long pastorate at Nowra, where he
spent 18 years, he made a name for
himself as a water-diviner.
Chairman of directors of Vacuum
Oil, Hugh Hamilton is a Bannock-
shire Scot who came to Australia in 1900
when he was 25. For a couple of years
HUGH HAMILTON, of Vacuum Oil.
he fought the big drought on a Darling
Downs (Q.) property in which he was a
partner; after that he joined Vacuum
Co. as a clerk. Soon he was g.m. for
Maoriland and a director of the com-
pany. He has studied the oil business in
the United Kingdom, Europe, U.S.A.
and South Africa, and has been a force
in Vacuum’s development in Australia
and Maoriland these last 36 years.
To be skipper of either the Maori or
the Wahine, the two fast turbine steamers
on the Lyttelton-Wellington run, is to
become a public character in Maoriland.
R.J. HEFFRON, member for Botany,
who leads the Parliamentary Labor rebels
against Lang in N. S. Wales.
Capt. Robert McKinnon Kane, passed
over at 48, had a term on each towards
the close of his 24 years’ seafaring in
the Union S.S. Co.’s employ. Dunedin-
born, he served his apprenticeship in
sailing ships and qualified as second
mate before going into steam. He gained
his master’s ticket in 1925, and was well
known and well liked on both sides of
the Tasman.
Dead in Brisbane at 77, H. F. Hard-
acre, who shared with King O’Malley
the distinction of being one of the few
men born under the Stars and Stripes to
make his mark in Australian politics. He
was the last survivor of Andy Dawson’s
short-lived Labor Ministry. A quiet,
stocky man who turned up in Queensland
in the early ’eighties, he joined the
Butchers’ Union and soon became secre-
tary. In the middle of the troubles of
’93 he got into Parliament for Leich-
hardt, and stayed there until T. J. Ryan
gave him a seat on the Land Court
Bench in 1919, after he had been Minis-
ter for Public Instruction during four
war years. He was a busy student of
early history, and wrote an exhaustive
pamphlet on the development of settle-
ment in Australia before the crossing of
the Blue Mountains.
“Jeames”: The Earl of Perth, Ambas-
sador to Rome, is, like Viscount Halifax
(Viceroy of India when Baron Irwin),
better known by his title before he suc-
ceeded. As Sir Eric Drummond, Secre-
tary-General to the League of Nations,
he was a very important figure. He is
the second son of Viscount Strathallan,
entered the civil service in 1900 and had
his apprenticeship to the secretary busi-
ness as p.s, tp Asquith, Sir Edward Grey
and Balfour. The Drummond family is
of Hungarian origin, and dates back to a
nobleman who befriended Edgar Athel-
ing at the time of the Norman invasion.
At one time or another the family has
been able to claim relationship with the
kings of England, Spain, France, Italy,
Denmark, Sweden, Rumania, Prussia,
Saxony, Bavaria and Wtirtemberg.
Drummond’s elder half-brother, heir to
the Strathallan title and to the Perth earl-
dom (which comes from a distant cousin),
died after the Ambassadorial appoint-
ment had been given to Sir Eric.
A. S. Kenyon is one of Melbourne’s
handful of authorities whose range of
knowledge and willingness to hand it on
earns them the regard of pressmen. He
solves Vic. historical problems, passes
expert opinion on old coins and acquaints
reporters with Vic.’s water-supply sys-
tem and the idiosyncrasies of the Murray
and its islands. Born in the Home-
bush of the gold-rush time, he
moved with his people to the Wimmera.
An aptitude for mechanical designing
altered an early intention to become an
artist, and in what he describes as an
accident he entered the Public Works
Department, where, in 1887, he was its
first engineering pupil. After engineering
work on Vic. rivers and harbors, he had
a spell with the water-supply section of
the Department of Agriculture, and was
later appointed a member of the State
Rivers and Water Supply Commission.
On retirement about three years ago, he
moved into the National Gallery, where
for the previous 10 years he had looked
after the coin collection. Now he’s boss
of the coin section and keeper of
antiquities.
Walter Angel retires from the Savings
Bank of S.A. after 48 years in its service,
the last five as manager. R. J. H. Pedler,
who has had 32, succeeds him at the top.
With Angel has been farewelled Wallace
Sandford, Adelaide merchant, who leaves
the Savings Bank board to contest a Leg..
Council seat.
C. H. Willmott, pictured here by Frith,
is one of the best known advertising men
in Sydney. Willmott’s Advertising Agency
was established at the same time as the
Commonwealth of Australia. In the
37 years since C. H. Willmott has
held almost every office in State and
Commonwealth advertising organisations.
Nowadays, he is chairman of directors
C. H. WILLMOTT.
of Willmott’s and Broadcast Advertising
Pty., and director of several mining cos.
Born in England, he came to Australia at
an early age, was educated at Geelong
College, and is a vice-chairman of the Old
Boys’ Association. He is a Fellow of the
Advertising Association of Australia.
A Dutchman who has seen the world
and likes Australia best is K. H. Hemkes,
Commodore HEMKES, of the
K.P.M.
commodore of the K.P.M. line for the
last three years, but with quarter of
a century of service with the same fleet
before that. Hemkes, who is retiring
this month at 47, lives in Melbourne
when not at sea, and now, after
a visit to Hollywood to see his daughter,
a somebody in the film world, he intends
to return and settle down by the Yarra,
with a spot of tennis occasionally to
keep him fit.
C. W. Rix, who exalted the old “tip-
staff” to “superintendent” of the Supreme
Court of S.A., has retired ; he came from
England in 1914 on the invitation of
Chief Justice Way, who died a few
months later. In addition to his duties
at headquarters, Rix has managed (on
the lines of Ferguson with international
cricketers) the transport and baggage of
all S.A. Judges on circuit.
A Royal Geographical Society plum
has gone to a Maorilander, Dr. Ernest F.
Thompson, who has been appointed
hydrologist to the Bermuda Biological
Station. Born in Auckland, Thompson,
after graduating B.Sc., became assistant
director of Canterbury Museum, and
while holding that post took his M.Sc.
degree at Canterbury College. A scholar-
ship took him to Cambridge, and as a
result of his post-graduate studies there
he was appointed biologist in charge of
the Egyptian Government’s research ship.
His doctorate was gained by a thesis
written on the basis of that experience.
He will be stationed on a research ship
for the next five years.
An academic record for Sydney Uni.
has been made by Dr. A. F. Janes, of
North Sydney. He graduated in medicine
12 years ago, being in active practice
ever since, and this year received his
sheepskin from the Law School. He
intends to seek admission as a barrister,
and will specialise in workers’ compensa-
tion cases. Dr. Todd, a former secretary
of the N.S.W. branch of the 8.M.A.,
held both degrees, but he graduated in
England.


fa
■u^
w
Special Virginia Cigarettes
NOW IN TINS OF
2 O FOR VB
ALSO
LAUBE BOXES OF 10 FOR 9d. FLAT AND ROUND 50's AND 100’s
?624 -3 S»


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Dan selected on the Yar-
riambiac Creek, near Warracknabeal
(Vic.), and built a home of sun-dried
bricks moulded from the mud and
roofed with corrugated iron. It was
solid, cool in summer and snug in
winter. Five years passed. Then floods
in the Wimmera backed the creek up
around Dan’s home. Dan slept on the
table. On the fourth morning I rode
by and saw that one corner of the hut
had collapsed, the mud having dissolved
in the water, leaving a hole big enough
for a cart to pass through. Framed in
the hole stood Dan. “Stiff luck,” 1
offered. “Oh, well,” he answered, “the
old hut always was a bit stuffy, any-
how.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Miles Franklin, author
of All That Swagger, should be inter-
ested in a story from the south concern-
ing a station called Towga, “situated in
extremely wild, mountainous country
near the Shoalhaven River and within a
few miles of Tallong.” Only means of
access, it is said, is by horses —and sure-
footed ones. Musterers leave the home-
stead mounted, with sufficient food for a
day, and ride as far as possible. Then
the nags are turned loose to return, and
the mustering is done on foot, “often on
hands and knees,” as the men crawl up
precipitous cliffs and then “slide and
slither down gorges and gullies.” No-
thing is said as to how the sheep manage
to stay upright. The story came out
when wool samples 12in. long from a
four-year fleece were handed in at the
office of Braidwood (N.S.W.) “Dispatch.”
Old Danny Delacey’s ghost should be
hovering about there somewhere, mut-
tering “The moind! The moind!” as it
watches the mountaineering musterers
hard at it.
* * * *
“C.J.8.”: In the small outback
Queensland school that I preside over
the favorite sport of the kids is goanna-
hunting. They search among rocks and
grass until up jumps a “g 0.,” disturbed in
the midst of his midday siesta. The
reptile promptly makes for the nearest
ironbark. More often than not he is sur-
rounded ; then, to ecstatic screams from
the girls, the boys perform the coup de
grace before “go.” has time to get up on his
hind legs. Occasionally, when the goanna
is up on top of an ironbark, I’m given the
honor of a shot (probably to provide
them with more fun when I miss it). If
I kept all the offerings of defunct snakes,
lizards, etc., that my hardy young pupils
make I’d be poor from buying metho.
in which to preserve them.
* v- * *
“Quebe”: That baboons attack goats
in S’Africa (B. 23/2/’3B) has been known
for many years, and it is true enough
that the things tear the udders of ewes
and nannies for the milk contents. It is
possible, too, that the “bobbiejons”
sometimes eat their catch. While hunt-
ing for inyama meat I saw an old-
man baboon in East Africa collar an
impala, which squealed as the bab.,
grunting and hugging the struggling
buck, disappeared with it. The natives
in Portuguese East Africa, with whom 1
lived for a good time, told me that the
old solitary baboon has a partiality for
buck. The old baboon living on his own
is a dangerous customer and has a dif-
ferent outlook on things from the ones
keep in droves.
* * * *
“Mossie”: “Notaden” (B. 23/2/’3B)
must have been reading the textbooks
about mosquitoes. But he omitted that
bit where it is stated they don’t make
more than a quarter of a mile up-wind
from the water in which they’re bred. As
for going 20 to 30 miles against a steady
and strong wind—that’s ridiculous.
Surely “N.” isn’t serious when he sug-
gests that clouds of mosquitoes, cover-
ing hundreds of square miles of country,
bred in my waterbag during a night on
a dry camp?
* * * *
“Jindivick”: As finder of the original
mussel pearl on the ’Bidgee (B. 2/3/’3B)
let me assure “D.P.” that the two cul-
tures are dinkum articles. I took mine
to the Australian Museum, where the
authority on shells and pearls declared
it to be the best specimen of a fresh-
water pearl she had seen from this coun-
try. Its color and lustre are of high
quality, features most noted for their
absence in pearls recorded to date, and
its shape is regular. In size it is about
|in. to l-6in. in diameter. The other
pearl, found shortly afterwards, is much
longer—about as big as a shirt-button —
but flat, grey and possessed of two
“ Careful, Major! Don't rain his pelt!"
spikes which protrude from its upper
surface. Pearls are regularly fished from
the Ohio and Mississippi rivers in
U.S.A. and are worth up to 5000 dollars.
Since the Murray and Murrumbidgee are
muddy, sluggish streams like the Ohio,
etc., our rivers may contain hidden
treasures of like worth. It is known that
the abos. used to come upon “stones” in
food mussels.
“Lapi Lapi”: Freshwater pearls? Cen-
turies ago Scottish mussel-pearls from the
rivers were in great demand, a pink variety
bringing high prices. Early in the cen-
tury the discovery of pearl-bearing mus-
sels in the Mississippi River gave rise
to an industry which flourished for some
years. Some sea-mussels also provide
valuable pearls, and there was once a
considerable fishery in the Papuan Tro-
briand group.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: March 21 brings the
autumnal equinox in the Southern Hemi-
sphere. Thereafter the earth’s surface
will receive less and less sun heat with
each shortening day, and will lose more
and more of its stored warmth until the
June solstice and later. The great glit-
tering river of the Milky Way runs
almost north and south, and the Zodiacal
Light rears its nebulous cone in the
western sky towards the meridian. Venus
is low in the west as yet, but as the
winter months approach she will rise and
shine until she becomes the most bril-
liant object of the night sky. On March
20 Mercury will pass near her after
emerging from behind the sun. Neptune,
remotest of the greater planets, was near-
est to the earth on March 11, but still
invisible to the naked eye. The Pleiades
show plain, seven of them the limit for
most unaided eyes, but more, even up to
an alleged 13, for extra-keen sight.
* * ■ * *
“Notaden”: One of the strangest fea-
tures of the vast coral rampart of the
Great Barrier Reef is that the outermost
rim which bears the constant shattering
onslaught of the Pacific surf is formed
by a small seaweed. The bare, wave-
swept rough-water structure is a very
different affair from the tourist notion
of a coral reef. Those fragile, beautiful
growths in protected waters would not
endure for a minute under the smashing
force of breakers which, in even a mod-
erate gale, smite the reef’s rim with blows
of 40,000 tons for every 20 yards, re-
peated five times each 60 seconds. But
the Lithoamnion seaweed secretes lime
from the sea water, and welds itself into
a dense, compact, rocklike pink sheathing,
artfully streamlined to deflect the crash-
ing onfall. Transferred to calm waters it
reacts to the easier life by shedding much
of its marble protection and puts out
long delicate branches.
* * * *
“Bowyer”: The yeomen of England
aimed their arrows over the closed fist
clasped round the bow (B. 2/3/’3B) be-
cause of the feathering. If they had
crooked a finger round the arrow-shaft,
as do South Sea Island bowmen, accu-
rate shooting would have been impos-
sible. Island arrows are never feathered,
and the bent finger has nothing to catch
on as the smooth shaft leaves the string,
The reason the Islander likes to tip his
arrows with iron bolts, as “Cooee-bird”
says, is that this makes the featherless
arrow fly straighten Before iron was
available arrows were headed with bone,
shell or heavy wood for the same reason,
•
“Nor’-west”: There were Malays and
Malays. The true Malay should be the
native of the Malayan Peninsula and
adjacent islands, but in early Northern
Territory days any seafarer from the
north, other than the Chink, was classed
as Malay. Thus Javanese and Koe-
pangers were included in the list—indeed,
comprised the greater bulk of such visi-
tors and trespassers. And the Javanese,
always in close touch with the Hindus,
knew all about the bow and arrow,
though it may have fallen into disuse
when the Dutch took over the reins of
government. But there is evidence that
long before the Dutch discovered the
Spice Islands those islanders visited
North Australia to gather pearls and,
judging by the strength of one armada
which appeared in Camden Sound (nor’-
west W.A.) as late as the sixties of last
century, to kidnap slaves.
* * * »
“Digger”: Some Aboite recently
claimed that 30 miles is a long day’s ride
in Bananaland’s coastal north. Before
the war it was the custom for three of
us settlers at Millaa Millaa (Q.) to ride
in to play football at Atherton and return
the same night—62 miles in all. Our
horses were good ones, but grass-fed, and
it was heavily-timbered country. In
Palestine our squadron of Light Horse
on many occasions travelled 40 miles a
day for two or three days at a time,
sometimes without water. Incidentally,
the pace of a L.H. squadron was that
of the slowest horse, and every horse
would carry its own rations and that of
the man, to say nothing of equipment.
The average weight of a L.H. man at
the war, including rifle, ammunition,
food, blanket, etc., was approximately
15 stone. In my case it was 18 stone.
* * * *
“Antibuzz”: Old Dan’s method of
killing flies (B. 16/2/’3B) probably was
efficacious, but it sounds much like burn-
ing down a hut to roast a pig. Here’s
something a lot simpler and just as effec-
tive. From the rafters of stable, feed-
mixing room, etc., hang a few loops of
wire. Then, when festooned with flies
at night, scorch off with a flaring news-
paper torch. Repeat for a week and note
the population decline. The flame burns
off wings instantly—and a wingless fly
is a dead one.
* + * *
“Ex-Leadline”: During 10 years’ resi-
dence on the Noosa River (Q.) I have
had no iodine-tainted whiting (B.
2/3/’3B), and I have caught thousands.
Moreover, that “Pandanus” talks through
his hat is proved by the fact that the
Brisbane market for this excellently-
flavored fish is largely supplied from
Noosa.
“Discus”: The octopus, with legs
about three feet long, had been impaled
by a spear, dragged from the reef, and
for an hour or more had been hung out
to die and dry. It was obviously dead,
without even a convulsive tremor, so out
of curiosity I poked my ihdex finger
against one of the cups on its tentacles.
So strong was the suction that blood was
oozing from the finger when I pulled it
away—and I’m a horny-handed son of
toil!
* * * *,
“Abdul Rahman”: “Tripod” (B.
2/3/’3B) says that cane-cutters don’t wear
their shirts outside their trousers for ven-
tilation, and then proceeds to explain it
is to keep the waist of the shirt dry!
Well, how is that done except by ven-
tilation? All over the East Moslems
wear their shirts outside their pants for
ventilation. If the cane-cutter left off his
shirt there would be less ventilation, be-
cause the flapping tail creates a flue up
which the air rises—just like a chimney.
*.* * * ,
“Erua”: Six men who were camped
in the track of one of the sudden fierce
floods that have been devastating parts
of Maoriland owe their lives to the dogs
and cats they kept in the camp, the
animals, sensing the approaching cata-
clysm, set up a great commotion, where-
upon the men climbed some near-by trees
and escaped certain death from the hurt-
ling logs and debris. They managed to
get their dumb pals up with them, and
held them there until, after five hours,
rescue parties came along.
A BALLADE OF BACKFATTERS.
“Porkers and baconers were in good supply, but
there was a shortage of backfatters.”
—Radio market report.
At eventide I sit at ease
And hear upon my radio
The buzzing of a million bees;
The snorting of a buffalo;
The fadings as of summer snow —
All these are things of little matter.
One problem racks my fevered brow,
“Pray, what the devil’s a backfatter?”
The abject crooner’s whining pleas
Rival the atrabilious crow,
And nimble as performing fleas
The brisk announcers come and go.
The social flapper’s fluent flow
Of blither taints the ether, drat her,
While Yank comedians mop and mow —
“But what the devil’s a backfatter?”
The urger’s burble of the gees
Calling on mugs to do their dough ;
The politician’s fulsome wheeze;
All these, alas, too well I know,
Porkers and baconers also.
But till I’m mad as any hatter
The question sways me to and fro,
“Now, what the devil’s a backfatter?”
Envoy.
Golconda’s wealth I may bestow
On him, though clothed in rag and tatter,
Who’ll tell me in my depths of woe
Just what the devil’s a backfatter.
N.S.W.
J. B. H.


“Salmon Gums”: We pulled in at
Rockingham (W.A.), and as we had
ladies on board asked the barman for
the loan of some glasses. He supplied
them without question, but any notion
that the proprietor was “easy” was dis-
pelled when we read an inscription in
frosted, ineradicable lettering: “This
Glass Was Stolen from the Rockingham
Hotel.” They went back all right.
* * * *
“Bunny”: Agree with “Nor’-west” that
white cockatoos can make an impressive
scene, but a flock of galahs near Gerald-
ton (W.A.) showed me something I’d
never seen or imagined. A slight wind,
bringing in long blue-ancf-white rollers
and sending up a scurry of white from
the sandhills, was dappling a field of
ripe wheat, when a cloud of pink-and
grey swept out from near-by trees. The
movement and color, with the good clean
smell of sea and grain, was one of those
brief flashes which make art seem cheap
and, as the novelists put it, have suffi-
cient beauty to hurt.
* * $ *
“Ring Four”: What’s all this about
fiddling with maul and wedges or cart-
ing fence-posts to make hard work?
Either job is a tea-party compared with
some of the sweat-raisers that crop up
underground. Bogging sticky dirt on a
wet level is one of the toughest, and
“There edden nothin' t' see 'ere, Mawther, only bit o' sceriry."
there are worse than that. Was cursing
over a banjo with a mate who had pushed
his way around the globe at the useful
end of a shovel. “Young fella,” he said,
“you’ll only find two jobs ’arder than this
—stokin’ a floatin’ coffin or shovellki’
wet cement for eight hours a day.” And
I’ll take his word for it.
* * * *
“Fossicker”: My notion of a holiday
in Hades is a spell on the Mitchell or on
the Tate (N.Q.) when the March flies are
doing their stuff> They come in hordes
“Excuse me, sir, but you don't use chopsticks with the soup."
for two or three days at a time, and,
at their worst, reduce the daily routine to
grabbing a piece of corn-an’-damper and
diving with a howl of rage inside the
mosquito-net again. The horses snatch
a mouthful or two of feed and then go
straight for the nearest waterhole, where
they stay immersed to the muzzle for
hours. A red-hot syringe squirting
vinegar about sums up the bite.
4* 4* 4*
“Mat’s Mate”: Just had a letter from
the big bloke, who is fruit-picking in
Mildura (Vic.). He says the cost of liv-
ing down there is the same as in Sydney
—“sixpence a pot”!
4* 4: * #
“Hello”: “Garlic’s” par. about the
German farmer whose sense of propriety
forbade him speaking to a woman
through the ’phone until he had climbed
into his pants (B. 16/2/’3B) reminds me
of a yarn that was current in Westralia
after the inauguration of the tele-
phone service between Perth and Fre-
mantle. A citizen returning to the port
one Saturday night missed his walking-
stick and concluded he must have left it
in a city pub. He rang up the landlord
and a slightly-sozzled Bung came to the
’phone. “Left your stick here, did you?”
he queried. “Wait till I have a look in
the bar.” A minute later he returned,
“Found three,” he announced. “Say,
old man”—holding up one to the instru-
ment—“is this yours?”
“O’Caollaig”: The huge sharks seen
on the west coast of Scotland (B.
16/2/’3B) have never proved a menace
to bathers and never will, for they are
of a deep-sea variety. Yearly they
migrate in thousands along the western
shores of Great Britain and Ireland,
many of them being 30ft. and 40ft. in
length. For generations the pampootie-
shod natives of the Aran Islands, using
the old hand-thrown harpoons, have
hunted them in frail curraghs. On these
islands oil from sharks’ livers is still used
for lighting purposes, and it was used,
too, in the slush-lamps of hundreds of
Connaught cabins before the famous
Shannon scheme electrified Eire some
years ago.
* * * *
“Ellenvale”: Bowyangs have other
uses besides protecting wearers from fly-
ing granite splinters (B. 23/2/’3B). Old
Tom, a retired navvy who lives on a
small block near our outback Vic. selec-
tion, walked across the other night and
presented us with a couple of dozen of
fine ripe peaches. Someone asked the
old chap how he had managed to carry
them, there being no sign of the usual
sugar-bag. “Where else but inside me
flannel,” Tom replied; “nothin’ like it
for carryin’ fruit. But, mind you,” he
continued, “I’d have lost half of them
there peaches only I was wearin’ me
bowyangs.”
* * * *
“Naturala”: It is a curious fact that
many large and ordinarily inoffensive
animals readily recognise the human
female and, while they would flee from
the human male, soon show that they
won’t stand nonsense from “her.” A
W.A. bushwoman dressed in riding
breeches and a man’s shirt rushed to
the rescue of her dogs, who were
receiving a rough handling from a
boomer ’roo that they had brought to
bay. With a man, and tormented as he
was by the dogs, the boomer almost
certainly would have remained strictly
on the defensive; but, recognising a
female despite her attire, he leaped to
the attack. A month in bed was the
result —and it probably would have been
a funeral had not the lady’s screams
brought her brother, at the sight of
whom the ’roo took to flight. I have
seen much the same attitude adopted by
a pugnacious rooster.
$ $ $ ' V
“Edjudina”: Being much taken with
“Scylla’s” account (B. 2/2/’3B) of the
“thorny devil” (mountain devil we call
it in W.A.), may I, as an earnest seeker
after truth, put a few queries? Is
“Scylla” aware that the thorny one will
do the same with half a saucerful of beer
—absorb it through its skin like a blotter,
becoming gloriously shick as the result?
Would he believe that Spinifex Sam of
this village habitually wears one of these
lizards on his shirt-front as a pet and a
decoration ; and whenever Sam is lucky
enough to score a snifter the intelligent
little creature directly afterwards strolls
across Sam’s whiskers, daintily mopping
up the froth? Would he believe that Mick
Doolan, of the Six Mile, imitating Sam,
has a flock, or herd, of the cactuslike
creatures patrolling his bar-counter, sav-
ing Mick all trouble in mopping up the
slops, at the same time discouraging the
flies, and also giving an extra kick to
the jim-jams of any customer sufficiently
cashed up to attain to the d.ts.? And
that this herd of “thorny devils” over the
busy week-end habitually absorbed so
much slops that a visiting Yankee, study-
ing their method of soaking it up like
a blotter, immediately invented the word
“blotto”? He took it to the States and
sold it to the vaudevillians for a large
sum of money—and what dead-beat
vaudevillain ever since failed to get a
laugh out of it?
# * s= *
“Turoar”: “One night,” said old Bob,
“me an’ Tarry Tom was after cod in
th’ Goulbin. We slung a few ’andlines
in an’ squats down fer results. Alluva
suddin, Tarry gits a bite. Th’ line nilly
jerked outa ’is ’and. ‘Cripes! ’Ere’s a
beaut.,’ Tarry says, an’ digs ’is ’eels in.
I wanter give ’im a ’and, but Tarry says
’e c’n ’andle ’im on ’is own. It’s no
good, though. Tarry’s almost inter th’
water when I grabs th’ slack an’ takes a
turn er two round me belt. Talk erbout
a ’elluva fight! One minit we’re up on
th’ top uv th’ bank, an’ th’ nex’ we’re
’angin’ on with teeth an’ fur an’ nails
ter stop bein’ drowned. But weight tells,
an’ after ’alf an hour or so we begins
ter win th’ battle. But we can’t let go
th’ line even ter change ’ands, an’ so we
’as ter back right away frum th’ bank.
Me an’ Tarry reckons we struck th’ big-
gest cod in th’ world. But ’tain’t thatatall.
There’s a coupla blokes on th’other side,
an’ their line got tangled up with ours.
Yair—we’d yanked ’em clean across th’
river! ”
4s :I< sk *
“C. 8.”: An old Italian canefarmer in
N.Q. who employs only his own country-
men and has exact notions of what con-
stitutes a fair day’s work has solved the
problem of supervision without exertion.
When young Antonio gets a job chipping
cane he is provided with a large white
straw hat. “II padrone” is thus enabled
to see from the cool of the verandah
what progress is made in any of the pad-
docks.
*Js 4»
“M. U. Ray”: Muscovies in deep
water (B. 23/2/’38)? On Tapalin during
the T 7 flood in the Murray, the ducks
nested in hollow gums about the home-
stead. Flood came between laying and
hatching. One nest in a hollow was
about 15ft. above the water, which was
a good Bft. deep there. The Muscovy
brought her newly-hatched brood to the
hollow entrance, then pushed them over
one by one. The balls of fluff tumbled
to the water, righted themselves and
swam round eagerly till Ma joined them.
The Muscovies on Tapalin spent most of
their time on the river.
FALLOW TIME.
There’s an early-morning bustle at each home-
stead on the plain, ~
There’s a clatter in the stable and the stall,
For the long grey fields are softened by the
soaking summer rain
And the fallowing is calling to us all.
So the team* will soon be moving through the
grass and stubble land „ , ,
While the drivers, in a haze of dust and
dreams,
Find a state of strange contentment only they
can understand
Who have driven out the summer tallow
teams.
So throw the leather on ’em, boys,
And bring along the gear,
Look well to coulter and to disk
And point the delving share.
Old Captain, Bess and Rosalie,
Their sorrel sides agleam,
Are waiting in the stable yard
To lead the fallow team.
Bring the youngsters from the pasture —colt-
hood days are over now,
Time to learn the ways of chain and swingle-
bar ;
They must pace it with the workers in the
harrows and the plough
Through the paddocks where the mile-long
furrows are.
Soon the sturdy chestnut filly and her snorting,
kicking mate,
That come racing to the yard with tails
astream,
Will be plodding with their mothers who for
years have pulled their weight
In the vanguard of the summer fallow team.
So stick the collars on ’em, boys,
Lay axe and spade aside;
We’ll have to leave the clearing now
And let the fencing slide.
For seeding time will soon be here —
Too close at hand it seems,
When half a thousand acres broad
Await the fallow teams.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


Are you a
TRUSTEE?
If so, do you not find that, in this capacity, the
demands made upon your time are too great,
or the duties too exacting?
Are you aware that a Trustee is presumed to
know the law relating to Trusts, and may he
held responsible for mistakes made during
a dministration ?
Moreover, the intricacies of Estate administra-
tion often lead to the neglect of the Trustee’s
own affairs.
Should you wish to surrender a Trusteeship,
or act in an advisory capacity only, it would be
advisable to consult The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Limited, which is in its
60th year of experience in the problems
attendant upon the administration of Estates.
An appointment may be arranged at any time.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
£. AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria, June 14, 1878)
(Registered in New South Wales, 1907)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA, NOW IN ITS 60th YEAR
OF SERVICE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £955,806.
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE • 1-5 BLIGII STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
W. D. Stewart. R- T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager! J. W. Russell French.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
Maj.-Ceii. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0.,
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce.
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes,
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Huddart Parker, Ltd.
, Dividends ~
"ref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.f
£ £ £ £ £
1927. .153,881 30,000 14p.c. = 105,000 IS,BBI 684,923
1928. .133,801 30,000 10 „ „ 75,000 28,801 713,724
1929. .132,077 30,000 10 „ „ 75,000 27,077 740,801
1930. .103,969 30,000 8 „ ~ 60,000 13,969 754,770
1931.. 70,644 30,000 5 „ ~ 37,500 3,144 757,914
1932.. 71,860 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 4,360 762,274
1033.. 73,078 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 5,578 767,852
1934.. 85,740 30,000 7 „ „ 52,500 3,240 771.092
1935.. 78,059 30,000 7 ~ ~ 52,500 766,652
1936.. 91,108 30,000 7-1 „ ~ 56,250 4,858 771,516
1937. .116,46 S 30.000 11 .. .. 82,500 3,968 775,478
t Excluding- specific reserves, £421,357 at Dec.
31, 1937.
The Wanganella, a cheap purchase, com -
plete but new, in the Old Country a few
years back, has done good work in
shareholders’ interests in the Tasman ser-
vice. The Westralia plies around the
coast from Brisbane to Fremantle, and
the Zealandia is still on the run from
Sydney to Hobart. The Tasmanian
Steamers Pty. vessels, Taroona and Nair-
ana, run a regular service from Mel-
bourne to Launceston and Burnie ; H.P.
has a half-interest in this co.
Huddart Parker’s other shareholdings
are also important. The principal cos.
are enumerated hereunder, but the exact
interest isn’t known in all cases:- —
Hebburn, Ltd. —four-sevenths interest (£400,000).
Metropolitan Coal Co.-—-controlling interest,
J. and A. Brown Abermain—S'eaham.
Tasmanian Steamers Pty.—half-interest.
Bay Steamers—-controlling interest.
Melbourne Steam.
Amalgamated Wireless.
Australian National Airways Pty.—one-fifth interest
( £49,999).
Amalgamated Wireless has increased its
div. from 11 p.c. to 12 p.c., the outlook
for N. S. Wales coal cos. is slightly better,
Melbourne Steam is earning much more
(though not handing it out), and the Bass
Strait and Hobson’s Bay cos. should be
at least holding their own. H.P.’s cargo
vessels are well occupied.
Including £1872 added to the insur-
ance funds, net profit for the year to
Dec. 31 is shown at £116,468 —up
£15,360 —and that figure represents a little
over 11.5 p.c. on ord. capital, allowing
for the prefs., compared with 8.1, 6.4,
7.4, 5.7, and 5.5 p.c. back to 1932. In
1926 21.2 p.c. was shown—that was be-
fore the new Matson liners entered the
Tasman trade. Last term the div. was
lifted steeply from 1\ p.c. to 11 p.c., and
£3968 was carried to reserves, which now
stand at £771,510, excluding £421,357
(down £1200) in a blanketed item, “re-
serve for contingencies, taxation, repairs
and maintenance, boilers and renewals,
superannuation fund, etc.” How much
of this reserve is necessary to offset
actual depreciation, etc., it is impossible
to say, but the fleet, etc., plus shares in
other cos., is in at “book value,” and that
value last term dropped £91,102.
Here is as much detail of the assets as
the accounts disclose:
1924. 1936. 1937.
Ships, shares, etc. £1,055,442 £1,359,415 £1,268,313
Investments .. 1,283,256 1,294,986 1,405,922
Cash .. .. 35,127 19,587 43,978
Book debts .. 159,817 91,824 107,290
Stores .. .. 54,441 37,604 37,840
Total assets .. £2,588,083 £2,803,416 £2,863,343
Less liabilities.. 311,052 314,349 356,507
Net assets ‘ . . £2,227,031 £2,489,067 £2,506,836
Investments, exclusive of shares, rose
£110,936, to £1,405,922, last term. This
item seems to be mainly Consols. The
more or less liquid surplus amounted to
£1,238,523 —only about £11,500 less than
the total paid capital. This strong liquid
position is partly due to the fat returns
won during the war and early post-war
period, and to the sale of surplus tonnage
when prices were at their peak.
Last term there were no serious labor
troubles, and with business conditions
generally prosperous the improvement in
earnings isn’t hard to understand. In-
vestments have been, and should con-
tinue to be, a help, though how much the
Airways holding is turning in at the
moment isn’t known. Still, last years
showing from all sources was highly
satisfactory, and, if a few of the co.’s
investments be regarded as provision for
future comfort only, immediate prospects
look happy enough.
There is no sign of a trade recession
as yet. If costs and prices within Aus-
tralia are not allowed to creep up to
unhealthy levels there is no good reason
why something near the present standard
of business earnings shouldn’t be main-
tained. In any case, the market at
present buys Huddart Parker ords. on
a sound basis. At 475. 6d., allowing for
accrued div., the yield is £4 15s. per
cent, on an 11 p.c. div., £5 3s. p.c. if
the rate rises to 12 p.c. Taking a chance
(slight), and including the £421,357 of
contingencies, etc., reserves, the net tan-
gible backing amounts to 51s. lid. per
ord. share, £4 18s. prefs.
Australian Gas Light Co. (Sydney)
Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. (All Shares). serves, serves.
.£ £ £ £
1928.. 348,362 8 p.e. = 303,316 45,046 81,316
1929.. 278,182 S ~ „ 324,204 35,294
1930.. 310,573 S „ ~ 328,800 17,067
1931.. 297,938 7 .. ~ 287,700 10,238 27,305
1932.. 254,647 fij „ „ 256,875 25,077
1933.. 284,448 6 „ „ 246,600 37,848 62,925
1934.. 270,625 6 ~ ~ 246,600 24,025 86,950
1935.. 247,024 6 „ „ 246,600 424 87,374
Dec.,
1935*. 235,464 6 „ „ 246,600 77,499
1936.. 209,740 6 „ „ 249,320 37,919
1937.. 265,825 6 .. ~ 258,371 7,454 45,373
* Balance date changed; 12 months’ figures, includ-
ing six months of previous term.
Gas-co. scrip has been in demand lately,
the rush to fixed-interest securities (the
present high price for Consols is an
example of the phenomenon) having
prompted the inquiry. Pref. shares have
been popular also. This big Sydney gas
co. pays 6 p.c., and it isn’t likely to pay
more without amendment of the govern-
ing Act. Costs are against any substan-
tial reduction in the price of the product
such as might soften a Government’s
heart to the extent of permitting higher
divs. for meritorious management.
The div. has just been paid, and at £7 9s.
the A shares, £6 paid and £6 callable in
a wind-up, return £4 16s. 7d. per cent.,
as against £3 15s. 6d. per cent, offered on
the last Commonwealth loan and 4.1 p.c.
obtainable from British Tobacco 6j p.c.
prefs. Australian Glass 9 p.c. prefs.
return about 4.4 p.c.
In 1935 Gas A shares were as high,
as £8 3s. Then came a lengthening in
interest rates, and they have been as low
as £7 os. 6d. For the nonce interest,
rates are shortening. Unless our over-
seas trade balance improves, however, it
is likely that dearer money will be in
evidence later this year.
Under the Gas and Electricity Act this
co. can ask the inevitable “commission”
to fix the price of gas at a figure that
will allow divs. of 6 p.c., after meeting
all exes., including interest on borrowed
money, and after setting aside not more
than 3 p.c. of the net book value of build-
ings and plant for depreciation and not
more than one-half of 1 p.c. of the
share and loan capital combined for
special purposes. Last year it asked for
and received permission to lift the price
to the user. How this lift, which aver-
aged about 2|d. per 1000 c.f. over the
sales of the full term, helped to offset
outgo in total and per thousand sold is
seen in this analysis:
, 1936 —y-- —1937
Per Per
1000 c.f. 1000 c.f.
Sales:— s. cl. s. d.
Gas.. ..£1,787,323 5 2 £1,905,883 5 41-
Residuals . . 209,677 7 224,779 71
Meter rents, etc. 37,052 1-| 34,436 1-}
Total ..£2,034,052 5 101 £2,165,098 6 U
Manufac. and
distrib. exes. £1,234,558 3 61 £1,284,707 3 7-1
Other charges 235,085 8 253,828 81
Interest . . 115,216 3f 113,455 81
Depreciation, etc. 239,454 8 247,283 81
Total outgo. £1,824,313 5 2J £1,899,273 5 4J
Gas sales totalled 7,071,871 thousand
cubic feet, a rise of 161,933 thousand c.f.
Wages were lifted by “prosperity” and
other awards during the term, and the
cost of making the gas and piping it to
householders and factories lifted by l|d.
per thousand. Management exes, rose
by per thousand, and the depreciation
allowance was up'id.—a lift of 2d. alto-
gether. Income rose 3d. a thousand ;
the penny-a-thousand gain achieved,
coupled with increased output, caused
profits to rise by £56,085, covering the
increased div. requirements (30,000 new
shares were auctioned last September)
and leaving £7454 to spare. In the pre-
vious term the surplus was £39,580 shy
of the sum required to pay 6 p.c.
Residual products, which are princi-
pally coke, tar and ammonia, all sold
better last term. Tar reached a record
figure —there is a return to bitumen road-
making. Better income from these side-
lines helps to keep gas charges down.
By reason of outlay on new mains, an
additional gasholder and a new retort,
the book value of the undertaking rose by
£216,056 to £7,179,659. Stocks and float-
ing assets, at £771,217, were £125,461
higher. Finance was found by lifting
capital (£4,440,000) to the extent of
£lBO,OOO (bringing in £29,925 of pre-
miums), raising £36,829 temporary loans
(£384,029) and allowing £70,582 to accrue
on other debt accounts (£392,070). Loan
capital remained unchanged at £2,250,000.
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane)
To
Jan., Profit. Dividends. - Reserves. Reserves.
£ a £ £
1928.. 8,360 Nil 8,360 35,387
Loss on Maryborough branch, £12,247.. 23,140
1929.. 10,358 5 p.c. = 13,812 19,686
1930.. 19,651 7 „ „ 19,337 314 20,000
1931.. 4,949 2i „ „ 6,906 18,043
1932.. 12,207 4 „ ~ 11,050 • 1,157 19,200
1933.. 18,283 6 „ „ 16,575 1,708 20,908
1934.. 25,027 7 „ ~19,337 5,690 26,598
1935.. 35,506 7 .. „ 20,410 15,096 41,694
Profit on sale of property, £13,121.. 54,815
1936.. 45,868 7 p.c. = 25,640 20,228 75,043
1937.. 49,786 8 ~ „ 29,454 20,332 95,375
1938.. 51,740 10 ~ ~ 37,033 14,713 110,088
Excellent accounts are presented. The
old-established business has made won-
derful recovery over the past half-dozen
years, and, while shareholders have par-
ticipated, in the shape of increased divs.,
in the growing profits, finances have
benefited by the surplus kept in the busi-
ness. A great change has swept over the
structure and outlook of the concern.
New management has done a lot for
shareholders, and the public itself has
helped. There is a concentration of shop-
ping around the Queen-Albert-Adelaide-
Edward-street block, which encompasses
Coles, Woolworths, Penneys and several
picture-shows; Finney’s sit nicely in
about the centre. Allan and Stark’s are
in the next block. But position isn’t
everything, as some shopkeepers in the
area have to acknowledge.
Last term more customers were served,
and there was nothing wrong with profit-
margins. Gross earnings (£250,961)
lifted £11,915, and ordinary trading exes.
(£170,846) took only £4234 of the in-
crease, representing 68 p.c. of gross, as
against 69.7'p.c. in the preceding term.
An extra £5720 (£28,368 altogether) was
put aside for taxation and contingencies ;
allowing for this slug, the net result was
£1960 better at £51,746, representing 14
p.c. on capital, as against 13.5, 12.5, 9,
6.6, 4.4 and 1.8 p.c. back to 1931. The
div. was lifted 2 p.c. to 10 p.c., and
£14,713 (down £5619) Was carried to re-
serves (£110,088). This lay-by is now
nearly 5| times the figure of 1933, and
all except £13,121 of the improvement
represents undistributed profit.
Shareholders averaged 8.1 p.c., plus
£54,512 in bonus scrip, during the dozen
years to 1921. Over the next decade 5.6
p.c. was paid with an effort. During the
last seven years 7.3 p.c. has been the
mean annual offering, with plenty left
over to oil the financial workings.
The extent of the recovery is seen in
this comparison of balance-sheet figures:
1928. 1934. 1937. 1938.
Capital . . £275,993 £276,243 £368,176 £370,328
Liabilities .. 173,032 102,057 73,732 42,082
Freehold . . 128,037 153,940 257,349 263,188
Want, etc. . . 31,529 38,828 79,448 81,127
Stocks . . 191.586 158,039 189.966 176,350
Book debts, etc. 126,828 39,156 56,338 53,358
Cash and in-
vestments . . 6,431 44,505 9,671 10,708
Last term profit was written after valu-
ing stock at £13,616 less, which indi-
cates, among other favorable possibilities,
that lines didn’t stick to the shelves over
Christmas. The general trend of prices
at the moment is upward. An extra
£7518 net was added to the book value
of fixed” assets, a reduction of £2980 oc-
curred in debtors, and £1037 was added
to cash items. The outside debt
(£42,082) was cut down £31,650, and the
more or less liquid surplus (£198,334)
finished £16,091 strongerat the closing
of the books on Jan. 31.
The lift in the div. (the interim had
been unchanged at 8 p.c. p.a.) surprised
the market, and when the accounts came
out last week Sydney dealings in the scrip
lifted 2s. (to 325.). Allowing for the
final div., the yield at the latest
market is 6.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis,


YOUR NEW HOME
■ ■ SSgHjrag
1111
MH
li
m
“ALLUSTRE”
Coloured enamelled Iron
Fireplaces and surround,
the latest from London.
McClary Electric Cooker, the
latest in electric cooking.
Mcdary Gas Cooker.
Sanitaryware. White or coloured.
NEEDS DANKS’ LATEST FITTINGS
Wallpapers for every room.
Neo-Chrome Toilet Cocks.
New shape. Smooth sur-
face, easy to clean.
Bath Heaters.
Streamlined,
enamelled for one
or many points.
dxf
“Hush” Silent
Pedestal Pan
Flushers.
Neat and
secure
designs in
Builders’
Hardware.
“Esse” and “Otto”
Slow Combustion Coke
Room Heaters.
• EXCLUSIVE # INEXPENSIVE
Call and inspect without obligation.
’Phones: Sydney, M 650 5; Melbourne, CB3BO.
0 MODERN
JCHN DAN'rSiSCN
i Incorporated in Victoria) PROPRIETARY LTD.
324-330 Pin STREET, * SYDNEY.
39 1 - 403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
HONGKONG
Wonderful holiday four fo this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forzvard folder No. 78.
BURNS,PHILP
S. CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 790!
Wm.
r
fPSIsP
i
i *
in m
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
The Union Bank of Australia, Limited
■ ■ *
BALANCE SHEET, AUGUST 31, 1937.
LIABILITIES.
Capital authorised ..£12,000,000
Capital issued . . 12,000,000
Less: Reserve lia-
bility thereon .. 8,000,000
Paid up ..£4,000,000 0
Reserve Fund.. 3,250,000 0
Currency reserve 1,600,000 0
Balance of un-
divided profits 281,247 7
Circulation .. £ 7,565 0
Deposits . . 37,328,084 8
Bills payable and
other lia-
bilities . . 1,549,562 8
0
0
0
7
- £9,131.247
0
9
5
- £38,885,211
7
17
7
NOTE: The Australian and New
Zealand assets and liabilities
are included at the par rates of
exchange, and the net difference
which would have arisen had
they been converted at the rates
ruling at the date of the
Balance Sheet is covered by
Currency Reserves.
£48.016,459 4 9
ASSETS.
ipecie on hand and cash balances £6,842,655
bullion and advances on bullion.. 114,488
Money at call and short notice
in London . . . . .. 360,000
Commonwealth and New Zealand
Treasury Bills .. .. .. 1,870,000
Investments: —
British, Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand
Government Securities .. 3,475,050
Balance of Remittances and Drafts
in transit, and Bills Receivable
at London office .. .. 2,991,803
13 10
7 11
0 0
0 0
4 1
17 9
£15,054,598 3 7
Bills discounted, loans and other
securities at the branches and in
London (after making provision
for bad and doubtful debts and
contingencies) .. .. .. 31,923,736 11 5
Bank premises in Australia and
New Zealand at cost, less
amounts written off .. • • 360,200 0 0
Loudon leasehold
premises at cost £142,304 19 4
Less : Reserves
against same
and accrued
interest .. 64,380 9 7
77,924 9 9
London, January 11, 1938.
£48,016,459 4 9
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of undivided profits on August 31, 1930
Less: Dividend, January, 1937...
. . £266,863 17 2
. . 120,000 0 0
Aug. 31,
1936.
£502,919
123,083
9,000
2,688
48,606
173,985
Leaving a balance of
Profits of the past year, after making provision in respect of
bad and doubtful debts, and other contingencies .. .. £1,170,937
Less:
Salaries and allowances to’ the Australian
and New Zealand staff . . '.. .. £525,328 5 5
General expenses in Australia and New
Zealand —including rent, rates, stationery,
etc 132,326 16 0
Directors’ fees .. .. ..£9OOO 0 0
Income tax paid thereon .. 3000 0 0
12,000 0 0
Salaries of London office staff, audit fee,
rent, rates, stationery and general
expenses .. .. .. .. 47,697 9 11
United Kingdom, Australian and New
Zealand taxes .. .. .. .. .. 199,201 4 8
.. £146,863 17 2
6 5
916,553 16 0
£860,281 254,383 10 5
Balance of Undivided Profits at this date .. .. • ■ .. ■ . • • • ■ ■ • £281,247 7 7
JOHN H. DAVIDSON, HUGH FLOWER, A. T. MAXWELL, Directors.
F. H. McINTYRE, Manager. S. F. GARDNER, Accountant.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 1929, we
report to the Members as follows:
We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the books at Head Office and
have had access to the Branch Accounts transmitted to the Head Office from Australia
and New Zealand. We have verified the correctness of the Cash, Money at Call and
Short Notice, Investments, and the Bills of Exchange held in London, and having
obtained all the information and explanations we have required, we are of opinion
that such Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view
of the state of the Company’s affairs according to the best of our information and the
explanations given to us and as shown by the books of the Company and the said
Branch Accounts.
London, January 11, 1938. WHINNEY, SMITH & WHINNEY, Auditors.
AUSTRALASIAN ESTABLISHMENT.
General Manager for Australasia A. W. McNICOL
HEAD OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA: MELBOURNE.
Manager at Melbourne
F. C. BISHOP
and the backing 265. in net tangibles per
£1 of paid capital. The scrip is lair
buying.
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. serves, serves.
1927.. 34,965 20 p.c. = 24,000 10,965 296,284
19 9 8 28 570 20 „ ~ 24,000 4,570 o00,8.)4
1929:: 32,158 25 ” !, 30,000 2,158 303,012
1930.. 26,053 25 „ „ 30,000 299,065
1931.. 32,659 22.9„ „ 27,500 5,159 304,224
1932.. 38 364 25 ~ „ 30,000 8,364 312,588
1933 31,737 25 ~ ~ 30,000 1,737 314,325
1934.. 36,069 25 „ „ 30,000 6,069 320,394
Freehold sold; added reserves, £41,873.. 362,267
1935.. 40,034 27.1 p.c. = 32,500 7,534 369.801
1936.. 35,804 25 „ „ 30,000 5,804 375,605
1937.. 40,395 27.5„ „ 35,000 5,395 381,000
After retaining the largest amount of
business written since 1929, this office
in its last term proceeded to show the
biggest profit in its recent history. Un-
derwriting doesn’t always work out that
way; it is very easy to fall in with acci-
dent and workers’ compensation policies.
But the Australian Mutual Fire continues
to show a fine flair for selecting risks and
avoiding the unpleasant stuff.
Last term the profit from insurance
business was £23,465, up £4211. Claims
were actually heavier; it was economy
in management that did the trick. That
is another indication of a well-handled
office.
Income from investments was rele-
gated to second place in the p. and 1.
accounts. The total increased by £4BO
to £19,930; relevant taxes (£3000) were
£lOO heavier. Gross, the return was 16.6
p.c. on capital. Including the under-
writing surplus, there was £40,395 to
show to shareholders, up £4591, and
equal to 33.6 p.c. on capital, compared
with 29.8, 33.3, 30, 26.4 and 32 p.c. back
to 1932. The div. was lifted per
share—to 27.5 p.c. The average over
a decade has been about 25 p.c.
The following table gives a bird’s-eye
view of underwriting figures in aggre-
gate :
Loss. Expense.
Premiums. Claims. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1900. . £33,888 £8,131 £13,765 24.0 p.c. 40.7 p.c.
1910.. 41,845 9,890 18,748 23.6 „ 44.8 „
1915.. 60,538 24,518 28,498 40.5 „ 47.1 „
1919.. 73,861 20,941 33,886 28.3 „ 45.9 „
1927.-. 114,440 46,007 56,288 40.2 „ 49.2 „
1929.. 117,143 48,143 59,869 41.1 „ 51.1 „
1930.. 106,336 40,165 67,986 37.8 „ 63.9 „
1931.. 98,886 30,312 63,018 30.9 „ 64.3 „
1932.. 95,965 29,441 49,941 30.7 „ 52.0 „
1933.. 94,292 32,835 52,255 34.8 „ 55.4 „
1934.. 99,759 32,149 54,339 32.2 „ 54.4 „
1935.. 100,140 26,316 52,770 26.2 „ 52.6 „
1936.. 104,668 35,834 52,480 34.1 „ 50.1 „
1937.. 110,565 38,322 51,778 34.6 „ 46.8 „
Not for many years have expenses been
kept so well in hand, although over the
last four accounting periods there has
been a steady reduction in this class of
outgo.
With reserves totalling 635. 6d. per £1
of paid capital, it is natural that the co.
should have a pile of investments. They
are a fine lot; including money on
deposit, they return the co. nearly 4 p.c.
gross: —•
1926. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £120,000 £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Liabilities .. 15,089 16,432 15,312 18,531
Freeholds .. 142,771 6,771 6,771 6,771
Mortgages .. 45,990 173,746 167,637 157,712
Investments .. 157,545 242,881 234,673 254,573
Cash .. .. 82,663 166,723 122,835 123,604
Debtors .. 15,440 8,613 9,001 11,853
In 1935 the co. sold its King-street, Syd-
ney, freehold at a disclosed profit of
£41,873. Last term the most noticeable
movements were a lift of £19,900 in Con-
sols, debentures, etc., and a drop of £9925
in mortgages. There is £123,604 in cash.
Policy-holders can see net tangibles of
A 1 quality equal to 455 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums. They are usually satis-
fied with 150 p.c.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£> £ & £
1927.. 50,488 8 p.c. = 49,867 621 50,737
1928.. 60,983 8 „ „ 49,867 11,116 61,853
1929.. 46,281 8 „ „ 49,867 68,267
1930.. 39,501 64 „ „ 40,516 67,252
1931.. 28.739 6 „ „ 24,298 4,441 61,693
Reduction in reserves, £4026 .. 57,667
1932.. 10,470 6 p.c. = 10,200 270 67,937
Reserves disappear, £l6OB .. .. 56,329
From inner reserves, £10,40S .. 66,737
1933.. 4,666 6 p.c. = 10,200 61,203
Reserves disappear, £lO6B .. .. 60,135
1934.. 5,901 64 p.c. = 11,050 54,986
Reserves disappear, £1204 .. .. 53,783
1935.. 11,151 7 p.c. = 11,900 53,034
From tax reserve, £5258 . . . . 58,292
Written off, £3268 55,034
Insurance claims, £2300 .. .. 52,734
1936.. 12,956 7 p.c. = 12,495 461 53,195
Share premiums, £752 . . . . 53,947
Insurance claims, £2107 . . . . 51,840
1937.. 13,771 7 p.c. = 15,258 50,353
The ss. shares at 6s. lOd. are priced to
give a yield of 5 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
The scrip, ex rights to the last new issue,
has been as high as Bs. Shares of small
denominations often run up to flattering
premiums before speculators realise it,
and on occasion high premiums have been
paid for this co.’s scrip.
The great days for shareholders were
in the early part of this century; bonus
issues and healthy divs. were the rule
then. Of recent years the best, perhaps,
that can be said of Sydney Ferries as an
investment is that it paid nothing less
(Continued on next page.)


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £25,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,500,000
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday. 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M4OOl.
The LUDOWICI ALL-STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
I
Possesses much greater
STRENGTH RIGIDITY
ACCURACY LIGHTNESS
ACCESSIBILITY
I. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd.
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY, 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE
„ —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ilassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.’
* ♦
DAVIES & COLLISOH, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
He sfJ jjs
ORES.—Try 0. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
ETD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Seders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company, Limited, 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammers,
etc. Write to us for particulars.— Advt.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne,
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
thdn 6 p.c. during the slump ; the worst,
that on last year’s showing the 7 p.c.
div. isn’t secure, and that the auditor
makes reservations about the profit
declared, So long as ferries are
necessary on Sydney Harbor the co.
should pay divs. But on the experi-
ence of the immediate past the scrip is
about as interesting as a gas stock under
disabilities, and at that the management
seems to have had plenty to do in order
to keep revenue up and costs down.
Ferries have been modernised, engines
have been changed from steam to Diesel
in some cases, the vehicle ferry Koon-
dooloo has been converted into a tourist
steamer and “showboat,” while new runs
have been opened up. Luna Park’s open-
ing a few years back brought increased
traffic. Opening of the Harbor Bridge
had slaughtered the principal service, but
shareholders had been looked after by
the management as regards capital;
partly by charging a special fare prior
to the Bridge’s opening, 15s. per share
was handed back in cash.
Special depreciation allowance had re-
duced the book value of ferries, etc., to
£29,921 in 1932. Recent alterations to
the fleet have made heavy call on the
co.’s purse:
1929'. 1932. 1936. 1937.
Paici capital.. £623,332 £170,000 £201,154 £245,613
Liabilities ..* 65,520 41,478 19,720 21,269
Landed property 42,520 28,434 26,211 25,583
Ship property 212,413 29,921 77,641 132,271
Wharves and
waiting-rooms 26,278 1,000 1,000 1,000
Plant & machinery 6,696 4,787 6,549 6,921
Fuel, stores, etc. 13,725 7,942 8,125 9,882
Shares in other
cos 107,000 107,000 107,000 107,000
Sundry debtors 24,018 36,909 47,249 37,427
Public securities,
etc 330,528 62,251 4,483 4,325
Cash . . . . 8,572 2,271 2,157 700
Over the past two years £75,613 of new
capital was got in, and £68,795 went out
on ship property, £54,630 of it last term.
Those have been the 4 most important
alterations in the accounts.
Last term building of the Quay station
interfered with traffic, but takings were
generally better, especially in respect of
the Showboat. However, wages were
lifted during the year under the Redda-
way award, and this heavy item of outgo
affected the expected increase in earnings.
Net profit—making no allowance for de-
preciation or taxation—increased only
£Bl5, to £13,771 (after charging £2107
workers’ compensation claims to the in-
surance fund, treated as a reserve herein);
that figure was equal to 6.3 p.c. on the
average (increased) capital, compared
with 7.2, 6.6 and 3.4 p.c. in the three
preceding terms. Reserves were drawn
on for £1487 in order to maintain the
7 p.c. div.
The co. contemplates lifting fares in
order to meet increased costs. The
auditors say that “the incidence of
the allowance made by the taxation
authorities for depreciation of ship
property renders current profits non-
taxable.” Some people are wonder-
ing whether this means that the
amount the taxation people would
have permitted the co. to charge for de-
preciation was greater than the profit
claimed in the accounts. The profits of
the subsidiary, Harbor Land and Trans-
port Co., were taken into Sydney Ferries’
books (except £32), together with £413
from the pup’s insurance fund. This
shareholding is valued at £107,000 in
S.F.’s books, and there is £32,238 on
advance.
Net tangible backing amounts to 6s.
per ss. Sydney Ferries share.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd.
At the end of March, 1937, this
afforestation co. had planted 169,311
acres and sold 148,264 bonds, represent-
ing a face value of £4,273,923. In Dec.,
1935, the bondholders formed a realisation
co. to take possession of the forests.
Now, after protracted negotiations, a ten-
tative agreement between Perpetual and
N.Z. Forests Products, subject to
approval of Bondholders’ Incorporation
Commission (the body appointed by
the M.L. Government to referee these
affairs), has been arrived at regard-
ing the sum Perpetual is to hand over in
discharge of its maintenance, etc., lia-
bilities. This sum, it is considered, should
also help in preparing for the early stages
of the formidable task of realisation.
Later, of course, additional finance will
be required for plant, etc.; an issue of
£1,700,000 of preference capital has been
mentioned.
Full details of proposals have not
yet been broadcast. The last balance-
sheet of Perpetual, however, showed net
tangibles of £1,401,134, and in a circular
to shareholders the directors now inti-
mate that after the deal goes through the
co. will be left with tangible assets of
£555,000 —cash £230,000, book debts
£190,000, and shares (4500) in the Pro-
ducts co. £135,000. This shareholding,
all but 560 of which represents early
planting, will give Perpetual a direct in-
terest in the future of the realisation co.
On book entries, the lot' is equal to £2
16s. per £1 of Perpetual capital, subject
to liabilities not aggregating “any con-
siderable sum” and to the demands of
the taxgatherer. In addition, under reso-
lutions passed in 1932, shareholders indi-
vidually are entitled to 14,107 bonus
shares in N.Z. Forest Products.
As at the formation of the realisation
co. the bond issue was limited to 170,000,
Perpetual has now all but completed the
purpose for which it was formed. For
the present, however, the object is for the
co. to continue in business, collecting its
own book debts and outstanding bond-
holders’ balances for the Products co. on
“a reasonable commission basis.” Later
shareholders will be called together to
decide the co.’s future. Meanwhile, the
directors hope “to continue the payment
of an annual dividend as heretofore.”
Also, some of the subscribed capital is
to be shortly returned in cash.
Perpetual shares have been privately
traded at widely varying figures on both
sides of the Tasman. In the Dominion,
the price of the £1 paids has moved up
from 38s. since presentation of the last
accounts to around 50s.
Hitler’s Coup and the Markets
The Australian sharemarkets opened
with no show of excitement on Monday.
In Sydney, Commercial Banking Co.
scrip firmed slightly, as did C.S.R. Tooth
shares were a little weaker, which was
the general trend of the market. Barrier
silver-lead stocks slipped a bit, Zinc
Corps, at 925. 6d. seeming a particularly
good purchase.
The consensus of market opinion,
pending a lead from London, seemed
to be that an alliance between Germany
and Austria was bound to come at some
time, and, if it happened without blood-
shed or international entanglements, so
much the better.
North Kalgurli
In the first two months of 1938 North
Kalgurli has treated 22,102 tons for gold
worth £75,481 Aust. The average return
of 68s. 3d. a ton is a few pence above
the 1937 figure, and costs are down a
shade. In 1936 a working profit of
£163,056 Aust. was shown ; for 1937 this
lifted to £265,278 on the milling of 10
p.c. more ore (133,265 tons altogether).
The biggest' scoring point in 1937 was
better recoveries and reduced costs;
mine profit (395. lOd.) was 10s. a ton
better than in the preceding term. North
Kal. has 1,100,000 shares of 2s. stg. each.
In the past three calendar years (which
are also the financial years) divs. have
been paid in sterling as follows:
1935. 1936. 1937 T
June 28, 9d. Aug. 18, 6d. Apr. 30, 6a.
Dec. 12, 9d. Dec. 28, 9d. Aug. 10, 9d.
Dec. 10, 9d.
For 1937 net profit', allowing £15,000
stg. for office exes., £20,000 for develop-
ment and depreciation, and £45,000 (up
50 p.c.) for taxation, might work out
at £130,000 stg., as against £72,000 stg.
in 1936. In any case, the £llO,OOO (100
p.c.) declared in divs. is obviously well
covered.
In January North Kal. reported the
discovery of 9dwt. values over a width of
53ft. on its Croesus block. These and
other developments of late represent ore
in addition to the 632,360 tons positive
going 7.6dwt. at date of last annual re-
port.
“Throgmorton,” London: Lake View
and Star has issued another cheering
quarterly report. Co.’s properties take in
about half of the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile, but not all of them are producing.
Several lodes are being worked in the
Chaffers, Horseshoe, Ivanhoe, Lake View,
Hannan’s Star and Associated mines with
consistently satisfactory results. The
deepest point of operations is a little
more than 3000 ft. vertical, and values are
persisting there and underfoot. Divi-
dends of 50 p.c. (2s. a share) have been
paid regularly for the past five years,
supplemented by a bonus of 1\ p.c. in
1933-34 and of 2\ p.c. in 1935-36. The
decline in profits of £38,500 shown last
year was largely the outcome of the latest
labor award and expenditure on new
plant. It is worth noting that for the
first seven months of the current finan-
cial year working profits have recovered
by £12,833 compared with the same
period of 1936-37. At the worst, then,
shareholders are safe to assume that the
50 p.c. dividend will be maintained.
Restoration of the p.c. bonus would
require only £14,000, but as profits were
fully distributed last year the board may
want to strengthen finances.
* * * *
Accounts of Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd.,
the Aust. co. which operates the Wiluna
mine, and the whole of whose shares are
held by Wiluna Gold Corporation, show
a net profit for last year of £267,846,
compared with £439,893 for the previous
12 months. Credit balance (£188,065)
brought in increases the total to
£455,911. Deductions comprising excess
development and exploration (£211,996),
special development and exploration
(£61,120), and taxation reserve (£11,201)
uggegate £284,317, leaving a credit of
£171,594. Heavy expenditure on addi-
tional plant, etc., however, absorbed the
whole of this and left nothing for distri-
bution. On the co.’s board are an
accountant (C. H. Lamb, chairman),
three mining engineers (C. H. Prior,
managing director, R. Hamilton and H.
E. Vail), and a solicitor (R. F. Cook).
All are local men. Claude de Bernales,
J. A. Agnew and others are on the direc-
torate of the holding co.
* * * *
C. Rubinstein has issued another cir-
cular in London concerning South Kal-
gurli. This time he complains about
the date (May 26) fixed for an extra-
ordinary meeting to consider his sugges-
tions ; he has to return to Australia
before then. But competent representa-
tives will, he says, attend the gathering.
Reasons given why Rubinstein and others
on the Australian register consider a
change of policy desirable have already
been mentioned here. Rubinstein and
Beattie have powers of attorney or
proxies representing more than 50,000
shares —about a fifth of South Kal.'s
issued capital.
* * * *
First accounts (13£ months to Dec. 31)
of Tingha Alluvials, tin-sluicing at
Tingha (N.S.W.), disclose net' earnings
of £4OlB. Available cash has been largely
used in buying an adjoining property
and reconditioning the second-hand plant
on it. Recoveries averaged 1.791 b. t.o.
from 78,460 c.y., which realised an
average of 2s. 10|d.; costs worked out
at Is. 6j d., leaving a surplus of Is. 4d. a
yard. Holdings now embrace 4,000,000
c.y.; of this, 1,025,000 c.y., which may
be supplemented by further testing, has
been proved to average 1.51 b. t.o. With
metallic tin at £lBO in London and costs
at, say, Is. 3d. a yard, that lot should
be worth £50,000, subject to overhead
costs, on a 72 p.c. assay basis, compared
with a present market capitalisation
(50,000 ss. shares) of £22,500. Some of
the lower-grade ground may prove profit-
able if metal prices improve. Both plants
are reported in “first-class order,” water
is plentiful and treatment of 175,000 c.y.
is looked for in the current term. A
first clean-up of 39,000 c.y. in February
yielded 27} tons t.o. and showed a £lBOO
surplus, which suggests to shareholders
the possibility of early divs. if metals
hold. Many shareholders had similar
ideas during the currency of the past
term, and were disappointed because
profits were wanted for purposes other
than divs. From double the through-
put in 1938 they may reasonably look
for something, especially as the debt
amounts to only £1495.
* * * *
Gold-dredging in Mr. Savage’s domain
is experiencing that Kruschen feeling.
Compared with three in 1926, 21 cos.
were operating in 1936, winning £295,078
of bullion, of which £62,335 was passed
on to shareholders. Last year three new
plants—Barrytown, Clutha and Moly-
neux—reached production, and an addi-
tional five are expected to commence
digging in the current year. Details of
these eight, most powerful units in the
Dominion, are:
Monthly Res.—,
Issued Dredge ’OOO Aver.
Company. Capital. Capacity. C. Yards. Gr.
Austral N.Z. ..£206,750 250,000 c.y. 56,000 2.5
Barrytown . . 128,750 200,000 c.y. 22,000 3.3
Clutha River .. 200,000 120,000 c.y. 23,000
Molyneux . . 122,500 120,000 c.v. 80,000
Grey River . . 285,000 375,000 c.v. 63,000 2.0
Kaneiri .. 205,000 400,000 c.v. 55,000 3.1
Ngahere . . 205,000 350,000 c.y. 48,000 3.2
Arahura . . 205,000 400,000 c.y. 48,500 3.2
Three—-Kaneiri, Arahura and Ngahere—
will dig up to 400,000 c.y. monthly from
80ft. If the new enterprises turn out as
expected, value of alluvial production
should soon exceed the peak-year figure
of £505,000 —earned by 167 dredges in
1906. Rimu, with divs. of £lOO,OOO from
an output worth a million to its credit,
has done best. American-bossed, the co.
still has several years’ life ahead.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
M.D.; (1) and (2) Don’t recommend any
dealings. _ (3) Don’t know co. of that name.
W.T.F.: Regular bonuses to policy-holders
not yet m sight. It’s a public co J.E.D.:
(1) Hold the prefs. (2) Debentures too specu-
lative H.H.S.: Trust is the much sounder
and more easily negotiable investment, particu-
larly as your capital is limited. The managers
undertake to buy back the sub-units on three
days notice at proportionate net market price
of the underlying securities, less a small service
charge....T.H.R.: Was the old Crystal Palace,
now the Century, under Hoyts control. Situ-
ation‘is George-street, a few yards from both
Hoyts Plaza and Regent.


9MI ¥
*■■■ $
mm ommcoßDiAVs
mmmmmmimifiWmmvmitst a wvmmm
Oidi7hi£knaui£oifS
Bseezsi
We keep nearly 100 cows in regular
employment providing our milk and cream.
It’s a big |ob, this Victoria job. You ask Straw-
berry—her quota is just 600 gallons Of course
the Victoria is the largest, most modern hotel
in Australia It accommodated a quarter million
guests last year* Tariff from 4/- to 7/6 Single
room. 8/- to 16/- Double room
201-229 tit COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE. C 1 (Nem Town Hall)
VICTORIA PALACE
SMOKE-OH!
“A Sydney man claims to have whistled con-
tinuously for an hour and a quarter.”
And still he couldn’t get a taxi.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Any cough,” says a doctor, “should always
be attended to immediately.”
Waitresses, please note!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“According to a specialist, it is unwise to
eat a hearty meal just before going to sleep.”
That rules out listening-in to broadcast
election speeches timed for about 7 p.m.
4* 4» 4* 4%
“Jobbing gardener becomes film star.”
—Talkie publicity.
Specialising, no doubt, in slow-motion
pictures.
4* 4* 4* ,4*
It is when a man becomes wrapped up
in a girl that she has him on a string.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In divorce a man said that his wife kissed
him only when she wanted money.”
Surely no man wants to be kissed more
often than that ?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Tubby or not Tubby —that is the
(N.S.W. elections) question.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Her only friend was a musician, who came
from Melbourne to help her.”
— Woman’s paper.
Flute to her assistance, so to speak.
4* 4- 4* 4*
Will it be regarded as a sign of a
growing spirit of friendliness if U.S.A.
throws Bridges across to Australia?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“At one time or another, before he was mar-
ried, he had been engaged to over a dozen
women, all employees of his firm.”— “Sun.”
Apparently a fellow who went about
ringing his hands.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Her husband was never home before 4 a.m.
or 5 a.m.” — Divorce Court report.
Having the latest thing in husbands
may have been some consolation.
Bird Sense.
“In experiments conducted by an American
professor of music a canary remained dumb
while jazz was being played, but invariably
burst into song when classical pieces were ren-
dered.”
The inability of the bird to shudder
violently, grind its teeth or swear while
“At Rhumba Time My Sweetie’s a Real
Hoofhound” was being strained through
17 saxophones explains why the unhappy
creature had to remain dumb.
It was when the prof, injudiciously fol-
lowed that number up with the new
swing hit “Maybe My Baby Ain’t So
“Like ter change ’ ands , Bill? This one goes too fast fer me .”
Ga-Ga After All” _ that the feathered
songster swayed on its perch and started
to show the whites of its eyes. Its reason
was only saved by the immediate playing
of Beethoven’s “Rondino.”
Tragedy, however, marred the experi-
ments, for while “Jazzing the Classics”
was being played by Paul Violet and his
Harmony Boys the canary gave a startled
squawk and fell dead.
With its beak wide open under the
aesthetic urge to sing while classical music
was being played, yet stricken dumb- by
the awful cacophonous syncopation
which accompanied it, the unfortunate
bird was strangled by a discord.
80.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Germans are taught to march when they
are little more than babies.” — “D.T.”
It is then that they learn the goo’s step.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The churchgoer can tell the changes of the
season by the hymns.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Perhaps! albeit it’s easier still
To judge the season by the hers.
For when the winds blow bleak and chill
They go along to church in furs.
Bird’s-eye Views.
You can’t afford to be a gay old bird
unless you’ve feathered your nest.
There are some tough eggs found in
lovenests at times.
Landlords have discovered that many
queer birds can fly without a feather.
When chickens come home to roost
the neighbors begin to cackle.
Hatching plots is foul work.
McM.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He suffered almost continually from internal
pans.”— “Sun.”
Doubtless that’s the reason why he
rattled when he walked.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mr. Daley is a great believer in oysters.
He never lets a day go past without eating a
plateful.”— “S. M. Herald.”
The local fishshop knows them as “the
Daley dozen.”
•J*
“He declared that he became a gangster
because his wife was unfaithful.”
—Crime magazine.
Wouldn’t that make anyone go crook!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Some physical defects are very hard to bear
philosophically.” — Medical journal.
Baldness, for example, gets some
people’s hair off.
Breakage.
Men break records here and there;
Breakneck speeds they have to use,
Till their good luck breaks —and then
Someone else must break the news.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Some Little-known Facts About
Australia’s Early History.
VIII. — Flight from Botany Bay.
An incident which threatened to de-
velop unpleasantly almost marred Cook’s
first landing in Australia.
Embarrassed by ignorance of the abo.’s
method of salutation, the explorer on
reaching the shore held out his hand to
the local king, who was so tall that he
didn’t notice it. Jim, as he himself ex-
pressed it afterwards, “felt a bit of a
bletty gawt with me mitt hoong oot
to dry,” until suddenly he remembered
the Maori nose-rubbing ; so, with face
upraised, and standing on tiptoe, he took
a step forward to perform the act of
courtesy, but the king’s bunion got in the
way of his No. 10.
The king gave a howl and leaped
several feet. A buck who was standing
near by, seeing the explorer’s chivvy
reaching up to his royal master’s, and
hearing the yell, took it to be a canni-
balistic attack and promptly slung a
gibber at the king-gnawer. But it was
not for nothing that Jim had once been
first slip in the Whitby Tearshirts team.
Deftly catching it, he hurled it back, but
the rock merely bounced harmlessly off
the abo.’s dome. When it came back,
to be caught skilfully again, Jim aimed
lower and got him on the shins. With
the buck’s consequent retirement from
the contest the incident was regarded as
closed, but it undoubtedly establishes
Cook’s claim to be the first white man
to discover a coon’s physical vulnera-
bility.
The cap’n, to square off for the hurt
suffered by the king, politely offered him
his snuffbox, which the monarch handed
around among the tribe. It was during
the mass-produced sneezes which fol-
lowed that Jim made the mistake of pro-
ducing his tobacco pouch. Thereafter
during his brief stay the navigator
couldn’t move without a bunch of bucks
and gins, headed by the king holding his
huge dried-mud pipe, chanting “Gibit
’bacca!” He tried soaking the nigger-
head twist in bilge-water, galley grease
and asafoetida, separately and combined,
but they came at it with greater enthu-
siasm than ever.
The “gibit” epidemic started to get
really virulent after the abos. had looked
on at a game of two-up among the crew
at Kurnell, and they soon nipped the
generous Cook for every bean he had.
Picking the game up quickly, the king
had a trot of eleven heads and broke the
school. Coming on top of the ceaseless
cries of “Gibit tchillin’!” “Gibit ’bac!”
“Gibit bully!” it settled the already rest-
less crew, who urged Jim to get a move
on.
He was willing. The rum supply was
close to low tide, and he was getting
bored with the place anyway.
Mrs. Cook’s cousin, Isaac Smith,
worded Jim to name the bay after him,
but the leader decided that Ike Bay would
be too much of a nomenclatural neckpain
for future Sydney suburbanites. He
thereupon called it Botany Bay, owing to
the complete absence of any flora upon
the terrain, except nut grass and stunted
castor-oil trees. As a sop to the two
botanists, who had been sulky over their
disappointment at not seeing the Tassie
apples, Cook named the headlands after
Joe and Dan. As he pointed out, even
famous fashion-designers could have only
dresses named after them, but their
names would be perpetuated in capes.
They were no sooner out into blue
water again than “Limejuice Jim,” as the
crew referred to him, yanked out his
favorite beverage and made them all
have a double issue.
The cap’n’s great faith in this tipple
dated from a few days after leaving Eng-
land when, during an altercation on deck
between two A.Bs. he overheard one
call the other “a scurvy blankard.” Hor-
rified at the prospect of having the crew
ravaged by the dread disease, he dosed
the suspect up with the first stuff that
came to hand, which happened to be
limejuice. The signal success of his ex-
periment when his patient was in robust
health after a week decided Cook that
that was the stuff to give ’em —and he
did.
Shortly after the Endeavour left
Botany Bay, they came abreast of what
looked to Jim like the entrance to a
harbor. Zachary Hicks thought it was a
bay, Dan plumped for a gulf and Ike
said it was a lake. Bets were being laid,
and Jim was just diving into his pocket
to get set when he remembered that the
abos. had cleaned him out. Looking a
bit silly, he sternly said that the question
wasn’t worth discussing, and gave orders
to the helmsman to keep on his course.
This was a lucky thing, otherwise the
now famous port might never have been
called Port Jackson.
S .W.K.
Kid Stakes.
“Little children are being initiated into the
whys and wherefores of the gambling game.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
The little innocent you see a-playing at
the corner,
Keeping watchful eyes on cops, is little
Jacky Horner.
Mary went and sold her lamb, she’d
heard a “moral” winner,
Bad luck dogged poor Mary and the
s.p. had a “skinner.”
No longer Georgy Porgy chases girls to
make them cry ;
He studies form and tells them when to
give their treys a fly.
No more does Mistress Muffet on her
tuffet sit so staid,
For very often she is nabbed in some big
betting raid.
And Uncle Blotto’s children’s hour is
greeted with a roar —
For Unc. once tipped a winner that
romped home at six to four!
D. McM.
Proof Positive.
1 read somewhere the other day
That women have a better way
Of backing out of things than men.
! do not know whose dying pen
It was that wrote that par.;
But I’d be overjoyed if he
Would call at my garage and see
My wife back out the car.
BRLX.
Conquistador.
“When phenomenal floods occurred at Los
Angeles, Robert Taylor rode home on a horse ”
—Cable
Preferring not to swim or paddle
Robert Taylor sat a saddle.
Though he had no fins or flippers
You’d have thought with all his flappers
He’d have swum it like a seal;
But while his praise the dailies peal
Who am 1 to snigger coarse
At Robert Taylor on a horse ?
STOO.


FLOORS BEAUTIFUL!
HUDSON'S ARTISTIC PARQUETRY FLOORS
m ■
' .
", t
’ ■:
a
*
■
SO
aasmi* *
-iBB
■ iMiiwa
HI
% m
■
They are practically everlasting and very easy to keep clean.
Hudson’s Parquetry Floors have well earned their reputation
for utility and lasting economy.
GEORGE HUDSON PTY., LIMITED,
Glebe.
Many artistic panels on view at our Showrooms, 7 Cast'lereagh Street,
near Hunter Street, Sydney.
Telephones: 8W1451, MW2771, MW2781, MW2791 (3 lines each).
Australasian Paper.
The ords. in this co., to which
reference is made elsewhere, are
again going at about 315., cum
9.6 d. div. payable on March 18.
The yield is a well-backed 5 p.c.,
with possibilities in the not-distant
future.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
The Trade Balance
Australia’s overseas trade balance has
slipped ingloriously for the first eight
months of 1937-38. And though this
time last year we were adding hand-
somely to an already substantial credit
entry, just now improvement on the flea-
bite surplus established to Feb, 28 is of
a very anaemic nature.
To begin with, we shouldn’t let the
fact be overlooked that export values,
in total, are no worse than for the pre-
ceding year. Though wool, wheat and
base metals have slipped in price, butter,
meat and a few other items have lifted
in export value, and gold production has
risen to the occasion in hearty fashion.
Quantities in some cases are also bigger.
Imports are the problem—goods bought
overseas, a large proportion of which
could be, and may have to be
shortly, made in our own country, with-
out ruffling anybody’s hair in the coun-
tries to which we export.
For the seven months to Jan. 31 total
exports, including new gold mined, were
£1,323,000 stg. better, but imports were
actually £12,515,000 stg. higher, and the
favorable trade balance less than a third
of the previous corresponding period’s
at £4,264.000 stg.
For the eight months to Feb. 28 pro-
visional figures show merchandise ex-
ports £2,255,000 stg. lower at £73,586,000,
but gold output is up £1,768,000 (at
£9,216,000), and the total £487,000 lighter
at £82,802,000. Imports at £76,344,000
are £15,506,000 higher, and the favor-
able balance is down £15,993,000 at
£6,458,000. Compared with a month
earlier the balance has improved only
£2,194,000. In February of 1937 the
improvement was close on £7,000,000
stg.
Six and a half millions to the good in
eight months as against millions!
There are four months of the fiscal year
yet to go, with prolonged wool sales,
certainly, but also with prices of the
staple down to below 12d. (Aust.), as
against 16.1 d. averaged for the 1936-37
clip. The Commonwealth Bank has esti-
mated that, if imports keep up their
present rate and the rest of the wool clip
is cleared at current prices, then there
should be a surplus of around
£16,000,000 sterling at June, 1938, com-
pared with £35,502,000 for 1936-37.
Annual overseas interest requirements
on the Commonwealth and States public
debt alone is about £21,000,000 sterling.
That excludes public-body, municipal
and private commitments. Then there
are charges in the way of tourists’ ex-
penses, repatriation of capital, shipping
costs, divs. payable to British share-
holders, against which inward tourist
revenue, inward divs. and capital may be
offset. Usually the balance on private
account, especially if capital items are
excluded, is against us, too.
At June 30, 1937, our total overseas
London funds, including the sterling
backing for the Commonwealth note
issue, amounted to £72,000,000 sterling.
If the Commonwealth Bank’s computa-
tions are realised Ys regards imports and
exports for the rest of the period, and
total overseas interest, etc., commit-
ments work out at £25,000,000 stg. net,
then those funds may be tapped for
£9,000,000 this year. In the preceding
bounteous term they were added to by
£25,000,000 sterling.
Those 1936-37 additions were very ac-
ceptable. They occurred just after a
long draining period on trading banks’
funds, during which interest rates were
lifted and credit generally tightened. Few
people interested will forget the fright
that occurred eai'ly in 1936 when the
Bank of N. S. Wales lifted its deposit
rates by half of one per cent.
One reason for the tightness of money
at that period was the low state of
London funds. However, between June,
1936, and Jan., 1938, the deposits in
Australia of the nine trading banks ex-
panded by £30,000,000 (Aust.), as against
a growth in advances of £14,000,000.
Obviously the position became much
easier as export values increased and
London credits grew. With a movement
the other way now, it isn’t unreasonable
to expect at least something of a slow-
ing-down in the granting of new credit
facilities by bankers. Much will depend
on how export values shape in the new
season. It is plain that we can’t go on
living beyond our income, as at present,
for ever.
The shocking failure last week of
Richard Whitney and Co., Wall-street
brokers, may well represent one of the
financial curiosities of this age. The
firm was a broker to J. P. Morgan and
Co., and Richard Whitney, “hero” of
the 1929 market crash, had been five
times president of the New York Stock
Exchange. He has stated that he person-
ally withdrew 400,000 dollars from the
accounts of two customers of the firm,
and accepts responsibility for the failure,
which is attributed to an attempt to
corner the market in a distillery stock.
Whitney has been “indicted on charges
of grand larceny.” The closing of the
firm’s doors reminds that we have had
several Australian Stock Exchange
failures in varying degrees of messiness,
some of which happened more than a
year ago, and hardly one man in the
street knows what developments have
taken place in the affairs of the embar-
rassed ones since.
* =t- t * *
Over two-thirds of the season (which
starts on July 1, though auctions don’t
commence until the end of August) to
Feb. 28, the total Australian wool sold
amounted to 1,795,441 bales (greasy and
scoured), compared with 2,126,088 bales
in the same period of 1936-37. The
drop.in volume of turnover represents
18.4 p.c. Greasy wool has averaged
13.2 d., against 16.3 d., and the cheque has
fallen £13,437,070, to £30,061,070. It
looks as though offerings will be continued
almost up to June 30 —about 1,300,000
bales are still to go. Sydney prices were
a trifle better during the week to 'March
12 ; the average was 12.5 d. a pound, as
against below 12d. a short time earlier.
* * * *
Though Huddart Parker and Adelaide
Steam scrip has been very firm of late,
Melbourne Steam scrip has weakened to
295., after sales at above 30s. On a 7 p.c.
div. basis (6| p.c. went out last term)
the return offering is 4.8 p.c. It is an
attractive proposition, and worth any-
body’s attention.
* * * *
Bank clearings throughout the Com-
monwealth during 1937 were almost
level with the figures for 1928, the year
before slump really started. With the
general price level still below 1928 stan-
dards, the inference from these figures is
that business turnovers, etc., are on a
considerably greater scale. So far as
bank earnings are concerned, however,
these institutions deal in money as other
merchants do in stocks, and a pound (in-
ternally) to them to-day means just the
same as it did 10 years ago. At least,
that’s what most people think, and they
wonder why bank earnings generally are
still less than half 1928 totals when the
circulation of money has revived to such
an extent. Perhaps the margin between
borrowing and lending rates isn’t so wide
now, and Britain isn’t showering loans
and goods (and exchange pickings) on us
at pre-slump rates, but there seems to
be good reason for bank shareholders
asking “Why?”
*** ' *
In Melbourne Myer ords. have weak-
ened to. 335. again, returning 5.5 p.c. on
a 9 p.c. div. basis. Last term an interim
of 3 p.c., final 3 p.c. and bonus 3 p.c.
went out. Interim for the current term
is maintained. The infantile-paralysis
epidemic, which affected shopping in Mel-
bourne for some months, is now declared
to be virtually over.
* v. * *
The interim div. of McWhirters, Bris-
bane, has been declared at 2\ p.c.
In the preceding year a total of 4?
p.c. went out, so indications are that this
term nothing worse need be expected.
On a 4| p.c. div. basis the yield to' in-
vestors at 15s. is 5.7 p.c., allowing for
the interim accrued. '
* * * *
Olympic Tyre shares (B. 23/2/’3B)
were in demand last week in Melbourne
after a period of weakness. The scrip
rose Is., to 48s. This co. is still doing
excellent business. The lower profit of
the Goodyear co. (Sydney) was due to
the writing-down of stocks following the
fall in crude-rubber prices.
X * * HE
The business of Australian Paper
Manufacturers, which turns out Kraft-
paper and cardboard, has to find divs.
for the following issued capital:
1,000,000 6 p.c. own prefs.
228,500 A.P. & P. 8 p.c. prefs.
1,226,601 A.P. & P. ords.
208,111 Cumberland 6.2 p.c. prefs.
239,528 Cumberland ords.
A div. of 6 p.c. on A. P. Mfrs.’ own
prefs. and an all-round 8 p.c. on the
issued capita] of Australasian Paper and
Pulp and Cumberland (some of it isn’t
yet called up) would call for £212,219.
In the term to June 30, 1937, after set-
ting aside £85,394 for depreciation,
£218,179 of net profit was disclosed, and
at this stage the operating co. had
£690,021 lying idle in cash. This money
is to be used to establish a pulping mill
at Maryvale (Vic.). At present most pulp
is imported. During the current term the
operating co. is increasing the capacity
of its Fairfield (Vic.) Kraft-paper machine
by about 30 p.c., and a new 50,000-ton
board machine is scheduled to start at
Botany (N.S.W.) next month. When the
pulp mill begins operations at Maryvale
near the end of this year another large
wrapping-paper machine is to go up
alongside it.
The div. requirements of the holding
cos. and the 6 p.c. on A.P.’s million prefs.
won’t nearly require the full £212,219
this term because capital isn’t fully called.
But earnings should improve, and if the
pulping mill starts to schedule the 1938-
39 term should begin to show real benefit
from the at-present unproductive new
capital, on which divs. are being paid.
Boiled down, the position seems to be
that divs. are well looked after by
present earnings,. and that when the new
plant starts working there will be pos-
sibilities of div. lifts.
Ords. in' the chief co., Australasian
Paper, were recommended here last De-
cember when near 30s. They rose to
335. 6d., but with a parcel of scrip on
the market they have slipped back to
31s.
* * * r
Sales of gas and electricity in Sydney
are notching new records. Consumption
in 1936 was 3.8 p.c. up on 1935, and the
1937 figure was 6.2 p.c. higher than 1936.
The present year has opened with further
increases promised. Last year’s figure
was 19 p.c. better than the average for
1929-31.
* * * *
The ords. of Holeproof, Ltd., ex rights
to the new issue, were weaker at 275. last
week in Melbourne. On a 10 p.c. div.
basis the return offering is high at 7.4
p.c. Considering the co.’s trading posi-
tion and its high earning power that,
yield looks very attractive.
* * * *
Last week’s recommendation at 365.
6d., North Coast Steam shares are being
sold out of a deceased estate, and alto-
gether a fairly large parcel is on the
market. Buyers have been absorbing the
offerings slowly, as is often the case
where something is going cheaply for
no obvious reason ; hence the good yield
(4.4 p.c.) offered. The downward move-
ment in North Coast scrip has been
rather anomalous. At the moment people
“buying interest rates”—such as pref.
shares and gilt-edged ords.—have been
bidding up in price and accepting lower
returns in view of some uncertainty re-
garding the outlook for more speculative
stocks. North Coast Steam paid 8 p.c.
right through the slump, and that no
more is being distributed now doesn’t
mean that the co. isn’t sharing in the pre-
vailing prosperity. Though somewhat
seasonal, perhaps, the butter industry,
with its stabilised internal price, helps
to make any kind of trade with the
N. S. Wales North Coast profitable.
The shares in Illawarra Steam, trading
from Sydney to the South Coast, are in-
teresting also at 405., yielding 4 p.c. on
the present (8 p.c.) div. basis. The co.
showed nearly 12 p.c. earnings last term,
and Port Kembla activity must be a help.
* * * *
Sydney building activity is at as high
a rate as ever. Permits issued for the
last quarter of 1937 and covering the
metropolitan and seven adjoining shires
were up £1,100,000 (at £4,629,604) over
the corresponding figures for 1936.
* * * *
Meggitt ords. (B. 2/3/’3B) have lifted
Is. 4d., to 325. 4d. Accounts aren’t due
until August, but the 10 p.c. p.a. interim
has been maintained, and yield at last
week’s market is £6 ss. per cent. A
holding of the scrip should be worth
while in a spread of investments. Foun-
dations of the business, largely because
of the advent of the lino, industry in
Australia, are much solider than they
used to be, but the link with the building
trade makes investors ask for an extra
1 p.c. return.
* * *
In Melbourne last week:
Lancefields (W.A.) opened at 7s. 3d. and
rose to 7s. 6d., following announcement of 12dwt.
values in the new borehole, then receded to
6s. 3d. on heavy profit-taking, and showed a
tendency to steady around 6s. 9d. towards the
week-end.
Loloma shares went as high as 245. 6d. on
glowing press reports and apparently favor-
able development at the 224 ft. level. High
values are being found over good widths,
though quantities at the present stage are a
matter for conjecture. The milling position
and an estimate of profits was published in B.
9/3/’3B. Following remarks made by chairman
P. F. Cody, the market will be disappointed
if a div. isn’t forthcoming “before Easter.”
Earnings at the present rate should warrant
a div. soon, provided finances weren’t strained
prior to commencement of milling.
It was announced that Victoria’s 1937 gold
yield of 145,799 fine oz. was the best since
1920. Wattle Gully (Chewton) now has first
position among producers, displacing Morning
Star (Wood’s Point).
Business was done in Davies, Coop ords. at
265. The interim-div. lift has been appreci-
ated by the market.
Montana Western Extended shares were
slightly firmer at 3s. Id.
King Island Scheelite shares changed hands
at 3s. sd.
Buyers offered 9s. for Wiluna shares, after
sales at 9s. 6d. North Kalgurlis remained
the most favored Westralian issue.
Normanby Tin was in greater demand and
the scrip lifted to Is. 7d., double the price of
a few weeks back. Manager Scott recently
stated that “the property [near Cooktown, Q.]
is rich in tin values, and requires only the
application of slightly different mining methods
to make it a highly profitable producer.”
Actual recoveries so far have been disappoint-
ing.


AUSTRALIA'S CONCEPTION OF A REALLY EFFECTIVE SMALL CAR
2?Ai££ia*tt
NEW VAUXHALL WYVERN’
Companion to the Popular Vauxhall 14 and 25' Models
THE MOST ECONOMICAL TEN IN THE WORLD
★ OVER 40 MILES PER CALLON .. REVOLUTIONARY RIDE
WITH INDEPENDENT SPRINGING. .60 65MILES PER HOUR
3-SPEED SYNCHRO MESH GEAR ROX FOR SILENT, EASY CHANGING • OVERHEAD VALVE
ENGINE • HYDRAULIC RRAKES • HOLDEN RODIES • ALL-STEEL TURRET TOP SALOON • •
BEAUTIFUL LINES • LUXURIOUS INTERIORS • GIANT LUGGAGE TRUNK • ARMOURPLATE
WINDSCREEN AND SIDE WINDOWS —aid the CALECHE*.. AUSTRALIA’S SMARTEST OPEN CAR
To-day Vauxhall enters the field with an entirely new kind of
small car . . . with economy features never before available in
the 10 h.p. field. The combined resources of General Motors-
Holden’s Ltd. and Vauxhall Motors Ltd. have created in the
‘Wyvern’ the ideal small car for Australia.
VAUXHALL ENGINEERING has given the
small car owner a 10 h.p. engine with the
amazing petrol consumption of over 40 miles
to the gallon ... an economy on a par with
or better than cars of less horsepower ... a
fact all the more incredible when you realise
the ‘Wyvern’s’ lively acceleration —its amazing
bill climbing ability—its speed of 60 to 65
miles per hour.
Vauxhall has given a new riding comfort
. . . replacing the usual small, car’s bucking,
bumping ride with the billiard-table glide of
Independent Front Wheel Springing. It has
added the ease of control of a three-speed
Super Synchro-mesh gear box . . . the safety
of Lockheed Hydraulic Brakes . . . the greater
rigidity of an ‘X’ braced chassis of big car
design.
HOLDEN BODY ENGINEERING has supple-
mented these Vauxhall developments with
bodies specially evolved and designed to meet
the needs of the Australian public. The saloon
body is made from the very minimum number
of pressings. It is roomier. It has better
head room . . . better leg room . . . better
vision with its Armourplate ‘V* windscreen
and 6 side windows ... it is better equipped,
with the biggest built-in trunk compartment
that you have ever seen on any car of this
size—with the spare wheel well protected and
easily accessible without removing luggage.
The Caleche is the smartest, sportiest and
most practical open car for Australian motor-
ing. Normally a two-seater, but the. roomy
rear compartment is specially designed to
take a removable rear seat and cushion (avail-
able at slight extra cost), transforming the
car into a four seater at will with the same
comfort and roominess as the Saloon.
COME AND SEE IT. You will find that the
new ‘Wyvern’ overshadows in features, per-
formance, and economy any other small car
you have ever driven. Any comparison will
show that your money buys more in the
‘Wyvern.’
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
■\
‘AIR CHIEF’ CAR RADIO
is a companion you will always appreciate. It provides a whispering
background for conversation, entertainment for all passengers, company
for a long lonely trip, and fun at a picnic. Specially designed for Vauxhall
‘Wyvern/ it features controls to harmonise and give a ‘built in’ appearance
—a 6-inch Dynamic Header Bar Speaker and the ‘Acoustinator’—a
device which obtains the best reception of all programmes under all
conditions. Ask your dealer for a demonstration.
)
ENGLISH VAUXHALL ‘WYVERN
Consult your local Authorised
Vauxhall Dealer
mM
*The ‘Wyvern* Caleche
( pronounced, Cal-aish)
fust run your eye over it! Isn’t it a beauty !
The word Caleche was selected because it is a
peculiarly apt name meaning a light, low-
wheeled travelling carriage, having an adjust-
able hood. The hood on the Caleche is, of
course, adjustable, folding down into the lines
of the car and giving it an additional touch
of rakishness.
The removable seat and cushion available for
the rear compartment is another novel Holden
feature. It means that you can employ your
car as a 2- or 4-seater at will, fitting the rear
seat in the car when friends accompany you
or leaving it at home if the rear compartment
is used for luggage.
The ‘Wyvern’ de luxe Saloon
The smooth flowing lines of the ‘Wyvem’
characterised by the sloping ‘V’ windscreen,
the Turret Top and the large built-in trunk
are allied with the Holden features detailed
below to create a Salobn body exactly suited
to the needs of the Australian small car
motorist.
The . All Steel Turret Top ‘Wyvern’ Saloon
Body is engineered to give inches more head
and leg room ... the doors are shoulder-
width, making entering or leaving the Saloon
easier than with many big cars. There is the
comfort of the Multi-adjustable Driver’s Seat
. . . Relax-o-form Seating, with its springs
sprung on springs ... a. large size parcel
ledge at the back of : the rear cushion . . .
No-Draught Ventilation. And finally there
are those relatively small but highly practical
advantages, sound insulation, fume proofing,
dust and draught sealing.
\ • ••-
mm
V
The Position Viewed from Britain
Australia is vitally interested in world
prices for wool, wheat, butter, meat and
metals. The prices affect not only the
actual producers of those things, but also
the welfare of people in other industries
who sell goods or services to primary
producers. Bankers, who borrow from
and lend to land-men on a large scale,
are also involved deeply in the question.
World prices mostly depend on the
ability of world peoples generally to buy.
How are those peoples faring? Edwin
Fisher, chairman of Barclay’s Bank, Lon-
don, on Jan. 20 had something to say
about trade in the more important
countries:
The year has seen British industrial produc-
tion and the employment of insured workers
raised to record high levels, also advancing
wages and company profits, and rising internal
and external trade. It has not been, how-
ever, without its anxieties. The outlook
abroad has remained clouded, and the situa-
tion has been disturbed by the continuance of
civil war in Spain, and by the outbreak of
hostilities in the Far East between China and
Japan.
In the United States there has been a definite
decline in business activity, which, in view
of the economic importance of that country,
must be taken into account in considering the
prospects for world trade. It would appear
that the reasons underlying much of the re-
cession in business on the other side of the
Atlantic have been domestic rather than in-
ternational, and it is to be hoped that lost
confidence will soon be regained, and that
private enterprise will be encouraged to exert
its influence towards the betterment of trade
in that country, which is so important a factor
in world prosperity
A prosperous America, with her great popu-
lation, her wide territory, and her natural re-
sources, could do much to promote a greater
degree of well beine among the other countries
of the world.
That trade is gooo in the United Kingdom at
the moment no one will deny. But the very
existence of this satisfactory state of things
causes some people to look with unwholesome
persistence for the “slump” which they feel
must of necessity be round the corner. We
must count ourselves fortunate that we in this
country have a measure of general prosperity
which is by no means universal. But no
country can prosper in isolation, and every
effort should therefore be made to widen the
circle of well-being, so that all nations may
share in the improvement "which scientific and
technical developments have made possible.'
Confidence is the breath of life to business,
and its absence produces that state of hesita-
tion and half-heartedness which lowers the
general system, and has a paralysing effect on
all enterprise.
Recently there has been some fall from
the high levels of production and employ-
ment attained earlier in the year, due in part
to seasonal influences which appear to have
been more marked in 1397 than in recent
years, and in part to a setback in some indus-
tries which have been particularly affected by
the severe decline in prices of their raw'
materials.
The heavy industries, which include iron and
steel, engineering and shipbuilding, may be
expected to remain active, and, although natu-
rally the Government’s rearmament programme
has affected them favorably, there are other
factors which have helped to make the heavy
industries, as a whole, leaders in the general
prosperity which is being enjoyed.
The armaments programme, superimposed
upon an already high level of industrial activity,
naturally caused a* certain degree of disloca-
tion of production until the necessary adjust-
ments could be made. Outlay on aimaments
must be classed as unproductive expenditure,
Our aim must be to ensure that, as the work
is completed, other work will be ready to take
its place and that preoccupation with produc-
tion for defence purposes does not cause us to
neglect our overseas markets.
Overseas trade is a vital necessity to this
country, and, although the substantial rise which
took place in our exports last year is encourag-
ing, it was overshadowed by a still greater
increase in imports.
In the architecture of our island economy
the export trade might justly be regarded as a
keystone, and, in appreciating the value of this
keystone to the general structure, it is our duty
to see that nothing is done to impair its
Strength. The need for exports has never been
greater than it is to-day, and of all the prob-
lems facing us it ranks amongst the foremost
in impol tance.
A comment by Lord Colwyn, ol
Martin’s Bank, made the same week, has
particular interest for Australians: —
World supplies of wheat are not excessive,
and the trading position is satisfactory. In
the wool textile industry a period ol activity
met with a setback in the autumn. Buying for
home trade has since adjusted matters, and the
outlook is good, but world complications are
disturbing features.
His Lordship on the general outlook:
In Britain there should be little justification
for pessimism when we observe the results of
the majority of trading concerns and the spend-
ing power of the wage-earners.
If there are ways of passing from prosperity
to quieter times less violently than hitherto
let us adopt them, if we can do so without
interfering with fundamental principles, but
the essential requisite is a wider world col-
laboration than we possess at present. There
is no reason to suppose that in this country the
position is not closely watched, and that wise
steps are not being taken to deal with eco-
nomic problems. We have proof of this in our
national position to-day.
Speculative investors are wondering
how Wilcox, Moffiin, Ltd., is doing now
that prices of wool, hides, etc., have
been against buyers for some months.
Wool has fallen from above 18d. to
below 12d. since the close of last season.
The co.’s 11s. shares have dropped from
14s. sd. early in 1937 to 10s. 9d. last
week. Over the past five years average
earnings have been 16 p.c. p.a. on paid
capital, and in 1935-36 and 1936-37 9.1
p.c. divs. were paid. At June 30 last the
co. was heavily stocked up; it had
£215,926-worth on hand, up £58,475 over
the twelvemonth. Circumstances since
don’t seem to have been favorable to
realisation. Accounts aren’t due until
September, and a final div. only is the
custom.


“Mtenzol is an constituent
« ifif/p/ii used first grade motor
snirit on thjs Australian market***
“SYDNEY MORNING HERALD,” March 3rd.
tb
crui
iS6\» n
&D
ceb
onal
ad
S be
benzolX uEL '
-otH.uent'
son
[sent
/hen
of
un
giris
i toe
pro- \ sld 1
« *\n \ *irv
ir
Jd ldely .SmS 1 ' tetTS pr T ° t P d ne Sdcb pt<
Fy l AU£traba Brok t*td- va i\able
. \ a —■— ~TtT~ JOI
tion
in
» C"
the
duce
Auetralia
•d
ed
islet
/
\ is tc-
i i ;ell
l ld \higfr
“to
.speed
en gin es
Melb° MrnC
"Aig MS
■ ■ March 3rd
Plus
BENZOL
~\
/
BEU A I
■ I ■ il 4L I
Only C.O.R modern petrols con-
tain benzol. C.O.R Plus Benzol
is sold everywhere at the red,
white and blue pumps. It’s the
Benzol that makes the difference!
C O.R Super Plus also contains benzol.
Cll2/48/SP
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED (Commonwealth Government &. Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Incorporated in Victoria with branches at MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
AUSTRALIA’S OLDEST POSSESSION.
(BY “E.V.”)
Norfolk Island, which lies 14 degrees
east of the Australian coast, in about the
latitude of Lismore (N.S.W.), celebrated
the 150th anniversary of its foundation
during the first week of the month.
Five miles long and three miles wide,
hemmed in by forbidding cliffs and ris-
ing to a peak 1000 ft. high, Norfolk is
Australia’s oldest colony. One of
Phillip’s first tasks was to take possession
of it. This was done in March, 1788, and
its first Commandant and Lieut.-Gov-
ernor was Philip Gidley King, whose de-
scendants still thrive in Australia. The
little band of colonists consisted of three
officers, six free men and nine men and
six women convicts, stocked with six
months’ provisions and protected by a
local navy consisting of one four-oared
boat. Livestock was not forgotten —half
a dozen Cape ewes, some pigs, chickens
and a goat.
King found governing Norfolk Island
a hard proposition. His convicts tried
to mutiny twice during the first year.
Cultivation was not sufficient to supply
the needs of the little community, and
there was famine in N. S. Wales. The
Sirius, which came with supplies, was
wrecked.
Martial law was declared by the new
Lieutenant-Governor, Major Ross. On
January 9, 1789, the first child was born
on the island. Some convicts died from
starvation; for a time the community
lived largely on mutton-birds. It was
during this starvation period that Wil-
liam Charles Wentworth, greatest of
early Australians, was born on the
island.
Major Foveaux’s appointment as
Lieutenant-Governor in 1800 had a
curious effect on Australian prosperity - ,
for his absence compelled him to sell his
Toongabbie flock of 2000 Cape ewes to
his trustee, John Macarthur. John
Macarthur was thus enabled to hasten
the development of his own flocks and
found the Australian wool export in-
dustry.
From 1825 onwards Norfolk became
Australia’s Devil’s Island: the hopeless
spot to which the lowest type of untam-
able convict was sent; “a place of ex-
tremest punishment short of death.” But
the tales of official brutality which belong
to that era have been greatly exaggerated.
Mutiny was always round the corner.
Once or twice it broke out openly and,
as there were sometimes as many as
2000 incorrigibles in the place, the little
band of soldiers found the task of keep-
ing them in order no light affair.
In 1856 the convict era ceased. About
200 Pitcairners, descendants of the
Bounty mutineeis, were carried to Nor-
£olk and )eft to make their destiny under
Q- own colony rule, with 3000 head of
livestock to help them feed themselves,
These simple, happy, religious people
turned Norfolk into an Arcadian Isle,
They have always been law-abiding and
industrious and in every way decent citi-
zens. Norfolk Island was taken over by
,he Commonwealth in 1914. Since the
homes , here and , he js , and has increased
]n j m portance-
now carr j es a fairly prosperous com-
munity of 1200, grows oranges and pas-
sionfruit, sees a lot of tourists and has
been thought worthy of being governed
by one of Australia’s greatest soldiers,
Charles Rosenthal.


A Specialised Service to Sportsmen !
Shooting Repairs
m
MICK SIMMONS LTD
712-22 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
Branches: City, Suburbs and Newcastle.
Don't take your favourite gun to a blacksmith
to have it repaired. Its mechanism is almost as
delicate as the movement of a watch, and should
only be placed in the expert hands of men who
have devoted years of training to know what
to do and how to do it. Mick Simmons' Repair
Workshops are composed of such men. Head of
this department is Mr. Dan McCarthy, expert
armourer, who can boast of a lifetime of experi-
ence in gun work. Your damaged
gun or rifle is safe in his hands!
Mick Simmons’ Repair Charges are
the Lowest Prevailing in Sydney.
SPOTTING
MOTIONS
Under the Whip
Regular Bachelor, the Queensland
stallion with which R. P. Trihey won the
Caulfield Futurity Stakes and Newmarket
Handicap of 1936, has returned to his
very best form. After establishing a
Flemington record of lmin. for six
furlongs in the Leonard Stakes on March
5, he equalled the Caulfield record of
lmin. lOFsec. for a similar journey by
capturing the South Yarra Handicap last
Saturday.
Keith Voitre, who earlier in the after-
noon had had a win in the Orrong Two-
year-old on Battle Song, has discovered
how to ride Regular Bachelor to the
greatest advantage. As in the Leonard
Stakes, he allowed Trihey’s candidate to
drop back at the outset. Four furlongs
from home Regular Bachelor was only
ninth in a field of 13 and fully ten lengths
behind the flying leader, Aurie’s Star.
Those who had taken 2 to 1 about
Aurie’s Star felt that their courage would
be rewarded when the S.A. sprinter
bowled into the straight two lengths in
advance of Ajax’s stablemate, Beech-
wood (sevens), but Beechwood wore him
down at the furlong post. Nearer home
Beechwood struck his colors to Amiable
(second favorite at 11 to 2).
At this juncture Regular Bachelor came
like a bolt from the blue. Shooting
past Amiable in the final stride, he
scored by a neck.
Despite his rise in weight of 51b. to
9st. 41b., sixes was a nice price about
the Bachelor fellow. It may be lucky
for Doncaster aspirants that he wasn’t
entered for that event.
Alan Cooper dropped a good deal of
cash over Brushwood, in the Narong
Hurdle, but he met with ample compensa-
tion when Mananui annexed the St. Kilda
Handicap. The Limond stallion appears
partial to Caulfield, where he vanquished
Avenger in the Woodcliff Handicap on
Futurity Stakes day. Two signal failures
at Flemington followed that achievement.
Lady Mauve was in equal demand with
Pantoon at one stage of wagering on the
St. Kilda Handicap, but death-knock
quotes revealed the M.L. colt a clear
favorite at 11 to 4, Archie Crofts’s filly
receding to 9 to 2, with Mananui half a
point longer (better odds could be got)
and the W.A. gelding, Apollo, at sixes.
Rank outsider in a field of eight, The
Pioneer tried to steal the race. Pantoon
collared Ned O’Dwyer’s chestnut with
three furlongs to go. Stable connections
reckoned that Bailey made his run too
soon. Pantoon led by \\ lengths at the
distance, but had nothing in reserve when
Mananui, Apollo and Lady Mauve joined
issue.
Fred Shean rode Mananui right out
with the whip to stall off a belated chal-
lenge from Lady Mauve, and scored by
a head. Apollo, who ought to pick up
a stake or two before he goes back to
Groperland, was a mere neck behind
Lady Mauve.
It doesn’t look as if either Mananui
or Apollo will be dangerous in the Sydney
Cup. C. P. Barden, who trains Apollo,
won that rich prize in 1931 with The
Dimmer.
Pantoon is a stable-companion of the
King’s Plate hero, Elanage. Latter will
have a shot at the A.J.C. St. Leger
before competing in the Sydney Cup.
His owner, Steinberg, intends using
Elanage at the stud eventually, and
attaches more importance to a classic
victory than success in any Cup.
Elanage did not run in the V.R.C. St.
Leger because his nomination, posted
from Maoriland, reached Melbourne two
hours after the closing of entries. If
Elanage, instead of Pantoon, had opposed
Hua for three-year-old laurels at Flem-
ington, the Leger result might have been
vastly different.
Caulfield punters reckoned the bet of
the day to be Valhalla in the Orrong
Two-year-old. At Flemington the Ex-
citement gelding had dead-heated with
Tactical for first in the March Nursery,
and lost the Gibson Carmichael Stakes
by a head. Best odds about Valhalla
at Caulfield were 13 to 8, at which he
started.
Following the pace set by Rosado (25
to 1), Valhalla assumed control at the
straight entrance, but over the last fur-
long he was no match for Battle Song
(King of Mirth-Vermonious), who
reached the judge with two lengths to
spare and a lot in hand. Battle Song,
trained by Pat Quinlan for two Adelaide
sportsmen, was backed from 15 to 1 down
to sevens, and took a lot of money out
of the ring.
Courage, the brother to Cereza, which
Jack Holt trains for E. L. Baillieu and
his Anglo-Australian racing friends, W.
S. Robinson and W. Clark, firmed to twos
for the Kooyong Welter and looked home
and dry at the furlong pole, but Harold
Badger was obliged to ride him right
out to defeat Sunraysia (eights) by a
neck. Northwind (11 to 2) finished ex-
ceptionally well in third place, and at
Easter may be in better trim even than
when he carried off the Caulfield Cup
of 1936.
Turf Boy led home the Narong Hurdle
field, and was one of three winners to
carry No. 1 saddlecloth. The others
were Mananui and Regular Bachelor.
Carrying just under 12st., Turf Boy did
his best work at the finish, and reached
the judge well clear of David Quex, with
Sarokos third. On a slightly holding
track he covered the two miles and 65
yards in only a second outside record
time for the course.
David Quex, runner-up to Turf Boy,
is in the same stable as Green Cape, who
was the elect of backers for the Gordon
Steeplechase. A blunder at the last
fence, when striving to overhaul The
Shaughran, took the steam out of Green
Cape, who faded out of a situation. The
Shaughran (sevens) won handsomely
from old Montargis (25 to 1) and Picador
(9 to 2).
Tackling three races only, this Page
chose Mananui, Courage (with Sun-
raysia second) and Amiable.
* * * *
Swiftness off the mark is a great asset
at Warwick Farm. Hamurah, who is in
the Doncaster with 7st. 91b., was one of
the smartest to begin in the Denham
Court Handicap on Saturday, and over
the last half-mile there was only one in
it. Hamurah was favorite at threes. She
is a four-year-old black .mare by Salma-
gundi-Hamurana.
Moaveil was second to Hamurah, and
Bradford third. The latter came very
fast at the finish. Aureus disappointed,
but Denis showed pace, and will be no
33-to-l chance when something easier is
picked for her. Buzalong, a quiet tip for
the Doncaster, ran a nice race. He
looked very healthy,' though not quite
ready.
Florida, an elderly Magpie gelding
bought by A. E. Cooper for hurdling,
broke up the field in the Warwick March
Handicap. His apprentice rider, Vickers,
got a break of 10 lengths going out of
the straight, and as no other rider went
off in pursuit till it was too late the out-
sider —he was 12 to I—won1 —won easily from
little El Senorita —also unbacked —and
Rossjoy. Kirrang, the favorite, was set
an impossible task. Her fourth in the cir-
cumstances was no disgrace, especially as
she ran off the course turning for home.
After winning, Florida bolted for an-
other two rounds of the course. He must
have heaps of stamina, as, after being un-
saddled, he did not appear to be dis-
tressed. He is in the Sydney Cup with
6st. 71b.
Peter Pan's half-brother Brazilian was
another good winner for the Ring in the
Edensor Park Handicap; he started at
tens. The race was run to suit him.
Montague and Duke Caledon cut at each
other, and Billy Cook did not ask
Brazilian a serious question until the turn
was in sight. When Duke Caledon was
•beaten, along came Brazilian, and he out-
stayed Montague; Jester’s Lady was
third. On the strength of good track
work at Rosehill Golden Chance was
supported heavily. He ran last. Yet he
looked well enough.
Pastoralist Jack Leahy won the Farm
Novice with Silver Wave (6 to 1), one
of his own breeding—by Silverado-
Bravery. But Silver Wave was lucky to
beat the favorite, Vestal, who, in all
sorts of trouble at the beginning, failed
to get clear until the race was practically
over. Flying Ace was third. Glenesk,
after making the pace, dropped out from
the turn.
The mating of Heroic and Winter has
given the turf some fair horses. June,
the latest of their offspring to race,, is
improving, and may give Nuffield and
Pandava cheek in the two-year-old events
at Randwick. Starting at fours, she
romped home in the first division of the
Nursery from Triceps and Khancoban.
Adios, who eased in the betting from 6
to 4 to threes, did not impress. Diamond
Wedding, who carries the colors of A.J.C.
committeeman Reg Allen, led through-
out in the second division. She started
at 16 to 1. This filly is by El Cacique
from Golden Wedding, and it will sur-
prise if she does not stay. Beau Verre
and Orontes filled the places; neither
ever looked a danger to the winner.
Trainer J. T. Jamieson sprang a good
galloper on the public when Kai Tere, a
well-developed three-year-old gelding by
Wotan’s sire, Siegfried, out of Vigilance,
took the first division of the Maiden
Handicap. He was made favorite at 5
to 2, though it was his first start in Syd-
ney. Kai Tere was left flat-footed at
barrier-rise, but he unwound a fine run
and justified the plunge. Pat (20 to 1)
scored in the second division, beating a
poor lot.
Post positions for events were posted
at the Farm before the first race. The
innovation was greatly appreciated.
* * * *
“What’ll Ajax get in the Doncaster?”
the racing world asked when Phar Lap’s
successor up to a mile and a quarter had
won the Newmarket with 9st. The ques-
tion has been answered by the A.J.C.
handicapper, and it must have occa-
sioned him profound thought, for he
was a day late with his weights.
Ajax got 9st. 51b. —21b. less than Gold
Rod, 11b. less than Pamelus, 51b. more
than Sarcherie and Prince Quex, 61b.
more than King’s Head and Mala, 81b.
more than Lough Neagh, Gene Tout and
Mohican, 91b. more than Silver Standard
and Valbeau, and 101b. more than Even-
ing Mist.
Whittier won the Doncaster with 9st.
51b. Certainly he was a four-year-old,
but he was only a little horse. Ajax is
much bigger, and Easter is late this year.
On performances he is assuredly 101b.
better than Valicare, and Valicare won
the Doncaster with 8st. 91b. without
being seriously challenged. So the weight
was anything but prohibitive; all the
same Ajax is not to start.
Caesar looks rather nicely treated with
8st. Before he met with his mishap in
the spring, the late Colin Stephen’s horse
made Ajax go his hardest in the Rose-
hill Guineas, and, though his autumn
form in Melbourne was not wonderful, he
may race better the Sydney way than the
Melbourne way. Mohican and Evening
Mist must be considered. Soltoi (7st.
111b.), Silenus (7st. 51b.) and Bradford are
likely lightweights. Bradford beat Ram-
din at Randwick before that good trial
horse won the Villiers, and Bradford has
only 7st. 31b.
The Trump tops the Sydney Cup list
with 9st. 31b., being reckoned lib. better
than Allunga and 21b. better than Sar-
cherie ; but, of course, he won’t start.
Hua has 8st. 91b., Avenger 8st. 81b. (he
is another non-starter) and Elanage 8st.
51b. Northwind gets 8st. 41b., Sir Regent
8st. 31b., Old Rowley the same and Young
Crusader 8st. 21b. Mananui, who was
favorite last year, will have to carry
8st. lib. Mestoravon, who won with
7st. 51b., goes up to 7st. 121b. Sir Ross
who was second, has the same.
Three-year-olds other than Elanage
who impress are Bourbon (7st. 111b.) and
Bristol (7st. 71b.), but Bristol may not be
ready in time. Brazilian has a nice
weight—7st.
Bradford and Elanage is an attractive
double, with Allunga a second Cup
choice.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Tommy Farr has fallen from grace ;
in swift succession the elderly Braddock
and the night-club-clown Baer have
outpointed him. Another case of suc-
cess going to a pug’s head.
* * -t *
Fighting in great fettle, as he has done
since coming back after his long spell out
of the ring, Ambrose Palmer (12st. 71b.)
had a good win over negro Tom Chester
(12st. 61b.) in a 12-rounder at West Mel-
bourne Stadium. From the bell Palmer
fought as if he had an early appointment
he wanted to keep elsewhere. He
crouched and went for the negro’s bingey,
a sector in which this negro is extraordi-
narily well armored. Shifting the bar-
rage higher up, Palmer cut the black’s
right eye and ear with swift hooks.
Chester fought gamely, but he was no
match for the Victorian’s speed. Though
the negro can hit hard, Palmer came out
of it with his hitherto fatally troublesome
left eyebrow practically, undamaged.
With Henneberry claiming the middle-
weight title and Palmer, in his present
form, a likely contender for the heavy-
weight belt, Ron Richards has a couple
of tough scraps ahead if he wants them.
0 Continued on page 30.)
“Ride Off”: Next month will see a
polo team from Maoriland in Sydney.
Seven players, not yet chosen, and 25
ponies will cross the Tasman. Auckland
Polo Association is running the show,
and the players will be drawn from the
Auckland district, which this year holds
the national championship. One of their
objectives will be the lifting of the Aus-
tralasian Gold Cup.
* * *
“Gezireh”: An English cricket team
which includes Wyatt and Chapman is to
play a short season in Egypt. There is
a fine ground at Cairo, and a solid team
can always be raked up from the British
garrison and the British members of the
civil service, many of them ex-University
players. I cannot recall an Egyptian
player of note, though the Egyptian
is keen on Soccer football and pretty
good at it.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Moonee Ponds Handicap: Lady
Mauve; next, Apollo.
The Knoll Handicap: Courage;
next, King’s Head.
Sherwood Highweight: Heros ;
next, Sunraysia.
FOR HAWKESBURY.
Highweight Welter: Electron or
Lucky Kid ; next, Strathisla.
Windsor Handicap: Arabia or
Electron ; next, Salamyne.
Autumn Handicap: Brazilian;
next, Holbein.
Clarendon Handicap: Arabia or
Dutiful; next, The Jilt.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
"silver edge*
BRAKE LINING^
BRAKE TROUBLES
/
The majority of brake troubles are due either to poor brake
lining or mal-adjustment.
Unless your brakes are adjusted so that the work is distributed equally
on all wheels then the wear is certain to be rapid and the braking poor.
If your brake material is poor in quality then all the effort and
expense of careful adjustment is wasted, for unless the lining
is consistent throughout then the wear cannot be uniform
and the brakes are soon out of correct adjustment.
Use only “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LINING—
the quality lining.
BAYBESTOS-BEIACO, LTD.,
LONDON, ENG.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic
w
&
9T
&
9*-
m
urn
Aircraft Maintenance.
(“C” Ground Engineer’s Licence).
Aero Engine.
(“D” Ground Engineer’s Licence).
W. KINGSFORD SMITH, Principal
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET.
COLLEGE OF CIVIL AVIATION
255 a George St., Sydney (opp. Bridge St.).
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the* original.
M.Q. and Rafferty
A Lively Scrap
A pretty ball of muscle was Joe Hall
(9st. 3ilb.) when he stepped into Sydney
Stadium ring for his engagement with
Dommy Ganzon (9st.). Joe looked liter-
ally in the pink of condition and, like a
cray in a cooking-pot, became progres-
sively pinker round by round.
This is a peculiarity with Joe ; at the
end of a scrap, though unmarked, he
looks like a prime lobster, extra well
developed as to torso and biceps. Blocky,
of upright stance, curly thatch and a
strong, fairly intelligent dial about com-
pletes the picture. He has a muscular
development that would not disgrace a
middleweight, short arms which he packs
close to his body and a good balance not
often seen in these days of pugilistic tap-
dancers. He can fight aggressively when
he has no feelings of inferiority, or when
the spirit moves him, which is seldom.
On the strength of his win against
Miller a week before Joe was quoted at
odds that Ajax wouldn’t snort at. Any-
way, the Filipino had done nothing much
since his arrival in these parts. He’d
only outed a second-rater at a Sydney
suburban address and had an unsatis-
factory meeting in Melbourne with an-
other import, Lou Farber.
Still, as he shed his drapery he looked
a promising bit of work. Taller and of
lighter hue than most of his kin, he
appeared to have the constitution of a
steel spring. So he turned out. Unlike
recent lamented import Stuhley, who
gave fancy gymnastic displays—there’s
even a short movie going the rounds of
him doing a turn with comedian George
Wallace and a bevy of young ladies —
but who woqldn’t train and was made
look cheap by Henneberry, Ganzon
proved to be as finely trained as his
appearance suggested.
That won him the fight. Hall beat
Miller by letting that washed-out little
scrapper waste himself in fruitless on-
slaught. Miller was tired out when Joe
launched his delayed offensive. Joe tried
the same tactics with Ganzon. By the
seventh round the Filipino’s pantherish
springing in to score with his punishing
right—a beautiful clean weapon this—
or a left hook flashed up sometimes from
the crouch, reminiscent of Henneberry,
had given him a lead which made the
odds-layers feel goosey in the pit of the
stomach.
This part of the scrap was a matter of
them facing each other, keyed up and
watchful; then, nearly always, the Fili-
pino leaping in with a left aimed for the
body and a right aimed for the head.
Joe didn’t always accept delivery, but
he did often enough to give Ganzon a
commanding lead.
Joe started fighting in the eighth. He
fought well, too, particularly in one
ominous-looking offensive when he had
the Filipino in a corner dealing him out
a heavy body battering. Joe is a brisk
two-fisted attacker when he gets going,
and there was some fine fighting in this
and the next few rounds. Often they
stood head to head, each going for the
body with rips and uppercuts. Joe’s
punches looked to carry the most dyna-
mite ; the Filipino’s belonged more to
the fireworks class.
Joe won this section of the fight well,
but Ganzon’s sound training brought him
through it fresh as a colt, and he came
out to win the last two rounds still with
the quickness of a spring in his attack.
Altogether it was a nice scrap to look
at, all the better on the occasions when
Joe remembered to bestir himself and
go in and fight. Every round had enough
lively moments to satisfy most, and some
of them might have even consoled those
who sank their dough on Joe.
Ins and Oufs
“Aigburth”: In future amateur and
professional members of English Test
teams will be quartered together at the
one hotel instead of making their own
arrangements. This is expected to en-
courage the team spirit. It is to be hoped
that the Marylebone C.C. will go a step
further and pay the pros.’ hotel bills. In
the past the pro. had to do this out of
the money he got for playing, and with
a match running to nearly a week this
was a costly item.
* * * *
“Maitland”: South Africa has decided
to adopt the Australian eight-ball over.
Only the West Indies and India have
now to join up. There can be no doubt
that the change makes for a saving of
time, while the extra strain on the
bowlers, at first alleged as a drawback,
has been proved to be non-existent. I
can now recall the passing of the four-
ball, five-ball and six-ball over. Each
change was opposed by the diehards as
the beginning of the end of the game.
* * * V
“On the Nod”: A little bird has an-
nounced that the agreement to which the
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne and Adel-
aide Cricket Ground managements are
“Which 'orse do y' Want doped , Mr. Crookleigh?”
parties, and whereby membership tickets
for one are good for all, is to be can-
celled. At a cricket meeting in Adel-
aide it was stated that when the fourth
Test was played there last year there
were 1500 members of the Melbourne
C.G. present.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The English selectors for
the Test matches are Warner, Perrin,
Sellers and Turnbull. The captains or
captain of the Test teams will be co-
opted and have a vote. Warner and
Perrin are old hands. Sellers is the very
successful captain of Yorkshire. Turn-
bull is captain-secretary of Glamorgan.
* * * *
Dead in Maoriland at 74 L. T. Cob-
croft, who held the unique distinction of
having captained both N.S.W. and Maori-
land cricket elevens. He was a sound
all-rounder. Most of Cobcroft’s Sydney
cricket was played with the old Ivanhoe
club and, when district cricket came in,
with Glebe. He led a N.S.W. side to
M.L. in 1895-96, and later, having taken
up his quarters over there, returned to
Sydney as leader of a Maoriland XL
After his playing days he became a
coach and umpire. He made many visits
to Sydney, where he had a wide circle of
friends.
Footbrawl
“Preston”: The Victorian Football
Association begins its season on Easter
Saturday, April 16, with a second round
on Easter Monday. There will be 16
games in the series, and it is expected
that a match between the clubs north
and south of the river will be played on
King’s Birthday.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The missionary bug seems
to have bitten some of the Melbourne
League football clubs. South Melbourne
has been negotiating with someone or
other in Maoriland in the hope of mak-
ing a tour of that Rugby-obsessed coun-
try in 1939, while St. Kilda is said to
be thinking along the same lines. If the
Melbourne clubs s are going over in the
hope of winning the M.L. population
from Rugby, they are due for a horrid
disappointment. The cost of such a tour
would run far into four figures, and it is
doubtful whether, after a , “curiosity
crowd” to see the first game, the trip
would pan out £5O in gate-money.
“Gale”: What promised to be a
bumper season for all the football codes
in N.S.W. is showing signs of shrinking.
The Soccer folk thought they had all
clear for a visit from a South African
team, but it is now doubtful whether it
will come off. The Rugby League had
high hopes of a French tour, and when
that failed tried to get Salford, one of
the North of England professional clubs.
Salford has declined, and now the only
outside opposition to the Rugby Union
All-Black attraction is a visit from a
League team from the Auckland district.
Even that is not certain.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Rugby Union and
Rugby League are having their seasonal
clash. Because Sydney Cricket Ground
has been leased to the League the Union
has had to ask the professional body to
confer on the question of fixing dates
which will enable both to stage their star
attractions at the ground without cut-
throat competition. The Union desires the
use of the ground for its games against
the All-Blacks, and until dates are decided
on and approved by the trustees cannot
fix up the itinerary of the visitors. The
League will also have a team over from
M.L., and will need the ground for that
and for the inter-State matches with
Queensland. The Union will stage its
games with Queensland and Victoria at
North Sydney, and will require the big
ground only for the All-Blacks.
*** - *
“Huon”: The Union game seems now
well established in Tassie. The T.R.U.
has invited a combined Gordon-North
Sydney side to play m Hobart against a
local side and the Melbourne R.U. club,
which will be in Hobart at the same
time. These trips by N.S.W. clubs to
Tassie are becoming regular affairs.
Western Suburbs, which had a good
time down there last year, intends pay-
ing another visit this season. Victorian
clubs make the trip regularly nowadays.
* * * Jk
“Stoush”: What the N.S.W. Rugby
League thinks of the rebellion in the
ranks of the Kangaroos, is seen in the
annual meeting’s rejection of Bob
Savage, one of the Kangaroo joint man-
agers, as vice-president, a job he had
held since 1935. Savage has been club
official, delegate, chairman of the
management committee and deputy-
member of the Board of Control. Hi«
fellow-manager and co-sinner Sunder-
land is a Queenslander, and so safe from
N.S.W. action. He is, however, a mem-
ber of the Board of Control.
At the League’s annual meeting it was
announced that North of England clubs
had again agreed to stop poaching Aus-
tralian and M.L. footballers. The am-
nesty is to last until the end of the 1940
season. In 10 years 52 Australian and
M.L. players have been signed on by
British R.L. clubs.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: N. S. Wales Rugby
League has had another bad year, drop-
ping £lll5 on the 1937 season. There
is a disposition to blame s.p. betting for
the falling-off in attendances, but this
does not square with the experience of
the Rugby Union, which last year drew
bigger gates to its club matches than in
any season since the war, and made a
comfortable profit. Obviously the League
administration needs overhauling.
* * * *
“Gate”: N.S.W. Rugby League is like
the chap who got the bull by the tail
and was not so confident about letting


6
o'-
a
i
M
V v
S'*'
is
lH
////'
$
@
»:
m
Cup^'
cost a
little
more but
it's WELL
worth it/
Gordon’s
Gin
in £mdm,
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
TANQUERAY, GORDON & CO.,
LTD. LONDON, ENGLAND.
dhe fohgett gin diAtitlehA in the woild
SHE DREADED GOING
UPSTAIRS
Woman’s Fear of
Rheumatic Pains
C .2 of the many troubles that afflict rheu-
mr.tic sufferers is the difficulty of getting up
a d down stairs. Such was the case with this
v.o.nan before she started taking Kruschen,
but now she finds it no trouble. Read what
she says:—
“I have been taking Kruschen now for over
12 months, a half-teaspoonful in hot water
first thing in the morning, and I feel a new
woman. I had very painful rheumatism in my
knees and back, and also my head was getting
very bad. I used to dread walking upstairs; now
I am very thankful to say it is no trouble at
all and I scarcely have any pains. I feel better
in health than I have done for years.”—(Mrs.)
G.M.
Two of the ingredients of Kruschen Salts
are effective solvents of uric acid. They swiftly
dull the sharp edges of the painful crystals,
then convert them into a harmless solution.
Other ingredients of these Salts have a stimulat-
ing effect upon the kidneys, and assist them
to expel the dissolved uratic needles through
the natural channel.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN ART
EXHIBITION
The Macleod Gallery,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street).
Latest Pictures by leading Aus-
tralian Artists. Gallery now
reopened after renovations and
rearrangement.
ADMISSION FREE.
Tel., 87971.
\\\"
wvv
m.
■%
Y'/
%
m
wM
wm
m
tm H
iv::,
:'. ...'
i
fiP
The
lilile
fellow
the M
Job
Less than long, ignored for most of its
life, the Schrader valve plays a vital part as
guardian of the air in your tyre. All it needs to
help it do its job is five minutes of your time once
a week; for regular Schrader-testing is essential if
you are to get the best out of your tyres.
Brakes, steering, springing,
road-holding, comfort—all these
depend on the cushion of air
between wheels and road, con-
trolled by the Schrader valve.
g'civrjyp^
SSPeP®® 15 . heading
T e\iabiW - gcAiradei naT ne
u cue tt>e _„ a van-
name
than «■“ See tb® g Via van-
§££» ",i5' 5 o ' > '”
teC Vgavagcs.
than
See
Gauge.
Lunges
Schrader
SCHRADER-TEST YOUR
TYRES EACH WEEK-END
Schrader Scovill Company Pty., Ltd.,
26 Market Street, Melbourne, C.l.
go. The Kangaroos’ refusal to return from
France on the date fixed in Sydney was
sent by the managers after a conference
in which the entire team backed them
up. It is suggested that one way of bring-
ing the rebels to heel would be to with-
hold payment of the bonus —if any —on
the conclusion of the tour. But action
of the kind might provoke a strike. With
a Maoriland side coming and the best
of the N.S.W. players taking direct
action, there would be the devil to pay
and no pitch hot.
Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: The Victorian golf
heads have cut down to 14 the number
of clubs a player under its jurisdiction
may carry. Their decision followed on
receipt a letter from St. Andrews asking
the Victorian opinion on limitation.
N. S. Wales is not following the Vic-
torian example.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: The question of the ama-
teur status in golf has set all Britain by
the ears. Matters have become so
tangled that no one knows just what con-
stitutes professionalism, so St. Andrews
has written to all the leading golfing
bodies of the Empire asking for their
opinion. The Australian organisations
are now engaged on the tricky job.
Films and radio, coupled with the craze
shown for inviting golfers who are not
professional journalists to write on the
game for payment, have greatly compli-
cated the issue.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Australia got a
shock when the cables announced that
tennis-player Cramm had been arrested
soon after his return to Germany. Great
secrecy was maintained, even his mate
Henkel, up to parting with his friend at
Munich, knowing nothing of the matter
until his return home. Cabled accounts
are conflicting as usual, but all seem
agreed that the arrest was made under a
section of the German criminal code
dealing with sexual crime. Cramm made
many friends in Australia, and everyone
will wish him a happy issue out of his
trouble.
:p * * *
“Top Spin”: The annual meeting of
the International Tennis Federation in
Paris this week will discuss the pro-
posed change which would entail the
holding of the Davis Cup fixture every
two years instead of annually. Though
England backs the change, America is
against it, and there is little doubt that
the proposal will fail of the necessary
two-thirds majority. India has put for-
ward a suggestion for international
mixed doubles. There is already a fix-
ture of the kind at Wimbledon, and
the Indian proposal will probably also
get the axe.
Miscellaneous
From I. G. Emery, manager of the
South African Empire Games team:
I saw on arrival at Adelaide the issue of The
Bulletin in which you vindicated my team.
On behalf of the team I thank you. Your
paper is one read in S. Africa, and we will
take several copies to show we are not such
swine as the Sydney “Sun” made us out to be.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: This year’s Stawell
(Vic.) Easter Gift will be worth £750,
with another £6OO split among other
events. The Victorian pedestrian event
is the last survival of professional run-
ning, and this has been due to the un-
tiring efforts of the Stawell controllers to
ward off crooked influences which have
destroyed the game elsewhere.
i[: # sjc
“Pairs”: One result of the Empire
Games has been to awaken interest in
double sculling, a sport general in other
rowing countries and on the programme
of the Olympic Games. With the idea
of getting local clubs to encourage it,
the N.S.W. rowing authorities have
appointed a committee to inquire into
the cost of building the type of boat re-
quired and to sound the clubs as to their
willingness to take up this form of row-
ing, which is directly descended from the
doublel-scuHed wh , ’ rri ‘^ c that nlied for
hire up and down the Thames up to the
middle of last century.
* * * *
“Hawthorn”: The Victorian crew for
the King’s Cup race on the Yarra will
be chosen from among 18 oarsmen. A
new scheme is to be tried. Selected men
will be formed into two crews, and the
men in these will be changed from one
boat to the other if form makes it ad-
visable. Three countrymen are in the 18.
* * * *
“Blade”: Those members of the
G.P.S. rowing control who opposed the
transfer of the races from the Parra-
matta to the Nepean have been finding
fault with that river on the ground tha.
there is danger in the bend at the finish
and the possibility of a clash if eight
crews should be rowing neck and neck
at the bridge. This last possibility is
remote as that of Lang becoming presi-
dent of the U.A.P. To placate the ob-
jectors the course, which has proved good
enough for the inter-State eights, the
Empire Games rowing and several Aus-
tralian championships, has been altered,
and the finish will in future be. 200 yards
south of the bridge.
* * * *
“Stretcher”: Sydney agents of the
Canadian National Exhibition have in-
vited Paddon to go over for an elimina-
tion test with scullers Pearce, Phelps and
Barry. They offer two-way transporta-
tion and £lOO, which is not good enough.
At a meeting in Woodburn over £5OO
towards a fund to send Paddon over to
challenge Pearce for the title was
promised. With stake-money and ex-
penses £l2OO will be needed, but no
trouble in raising this is expected.
* * * ■*
“Third Base”: It is likely that a base-
ball team from Sydney City Houses will
click with an invitation to visit West-
ralia in July for a series of games.
City Houses can muster a fairly high-
class team, and should give the Gropers
a good go for it. Matches may also be
played in Melbourne and Adelaide. Tours
of this kind are all to the good.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Double Wedding
William Powell, Myrna Loy.
This Page's special cork-tipped crown
seal, for only the second time in history,
is hereby awarded to this M.-G.-M.
comedy at Sydney St. James. We will
even go so far as to award it on this
occasion—not to be taken as a precedent
—with the bottle still adhering.
At the same time, we don’t want
people who have been rash enough to
go to the St. James coming round here
afterwards complaining that they had not
been warned. There are good bone-
setters up in Macquarie-street, specialists
in cracked ribs and guffaw-aches, and if
their rates seem a bit stiff, is it our fault
if you won’t pay your lodge fees?
If the effect is badly distorted fea-
tures or lockjaw brought on by the
ha-ha, we shall be happy to recommend
other shows in town which will soon
correct that.
Since that remedy, however, is
desperate even to think about, we would
suggest precautionary measures.
Ladies, even if you don’t wear them as
a general rule, do so to this film. There
you have the drop on men, so to speak.
Or on most men, at any rate. It must
be wonderful to sit there and laugh away
inside a good stout set with a feeling of
absolute security, even though Mr.
Powell is an artist with a hooped shirt
worn outside his trousers, moujik
fashion, in a car-trailer caravan and Miss
Loy goes through the entire film without
once smiling—a blouse-busting laugh in
itself.
For men we would suggest that all
buttons be double-sewn and glued, with,
in addition to braces, a greenhide belt —
preferably one made from a whole hide.
Adopt a posture with elbows pressed
in close to the sides, wrists crossed in
front of torso and fists clenched, as at
the dentist’s. Keep the thoughts occu-
pied as completely as possible with the
number of losers you’ve backed since
January 1, or will back before the rapidly
approaching day of your patron saint.
Imagine yourself in Tophet, with nothing
but water to quench your thirst. Picture
Mr. Stevens congratulating Mr. Lang on
having won the elections. Anything de-
pressing will help.
Remember, it may save your life.
Finish by laughter—as far as we can
make out, having been close to it —is no
more desirable than any other sort. If
only the confounded rabbits had a sense
of humor a great use could be made of
this film.
The theatre has doubled its strength of
trained nurses and tame medicoes and
has police cadets masquerading as its dis-
mounted postillions for carrying out the
casualties. We deprecate, however, the
canard spread about that a woman car-
ried out on the opening night with five
damaged ribs and her face seriously dis-
located by an outsize giggle was a mem-
ber of the Mosman Women’s Council.
That was simply exaggerated theatre
propaganda. The film isn’t as funny as
all that.
At the same time it cannot be too
greatly emphasised that it is not one to
be taken lightly. Shock-absorbers are
available at the box-office to all but total
abstainers, university professors and
“S. M. Herald” leader writers, and
patrons are strongly advised to secure a
few as they go in.
It is not, of course, suggested that Mr.
Powell and Miss Loy are shocking in
the true Mosman sense. Mosman ladies,
it really won’t offend your susceptibili-
ties. Your Worship the Mayor of Mos-
man, we earnestly assure you that,
though, in their way, these two Powell-
Loy clowns are tradesmen, they show
nothing but their respectability. There
isn’t a bare brisket in the whole length
and breadth of the performance. Beside
this show a demolition job in your august
suburb must look like a positive sink of
iniquity.
No; the shock absorbers so kindly
provided by the management are simply
to protect the diaphragm from its pre-
dictable abnormal reactions to the
Powell-Loy titillation of the risible
faculty. The absorbers, it may be added,
•vet also as mufflers of escaping noises,
such as the hearty ha-ha and the Gar-
gantuan guffaw. This is only humane.
Without this precaution, while the film’s
run lasts, there could be no more sleep
down at the Public Works Department.
Alfalfa, King of Crooners.
Up till now that distressing nasal
moaning, interspersed with the extra-
ordinary ejaculation “Boo-boop-a-doop! ”
which is called “crooning” and passes
for singing in Gahd’s Own, had been
treated in films with the intense solem-
nity with which your Yogi contemplates
his girth.
Film after film had been wound on
the assumption that, when some goitred
or otherwise providentially equipped
cigar-chewing or hip-swinging genius of
the American race began to utter that
astounding noise which curlews would
William Powell receives Myrna Loy’s opinion of his portrait of her in “Double
Wedding” at Sydney St. James. Above, Alfalfa, King of Crooners.
regard as dismal and flying-foxes take
fright at, everyone within hearing would,
as a matter of course, sit about mes-
merised in a moonstruck gape.
Good-bye to all that! In an “Our
Gang” at Sydney, St. James the sorely-
tried and sad of spirit may enjoy the
spectacle of the deified vocal disorder
knocked flat from its pedestal.
Enter, Alfalfa, billed “King of
Crooners”: enter yourself, and take the
pleasure of hearing him pitch into
America’s principal and most disreput-
able export.
He does it by outcrooning all crooners
whatever. He must have one of the most
awful voices ever erupted by the human
throat. With the subject crooning, that
is a tidy claim, but he substantiates it.
There’s an edge on his voice that would
chip an emery-wheel.
His struggles against the importunities
of those who would have him croon when
he’s intent on keeping his “voice” for his
“art” would do credit to a fiction
heroine’s defence of her virtue. But
croon in the end he does, and a million
hearts will warm to him for it.
That, while he’s about it, he gets in a
biff to the higher solemnity of opera
should warm towards him at least an-
other million.
“The Bride Wore Red.”
Franchot Tone, Robert Young, Joan Crawford.
Another good M.-G.-M. film.
The bare bones of it could not be more
trite. Its plot has whiskers, its theme is
wish-fulfilment, its central appeal is
identical with that of countless thousands
of romantic novels.
A count having a night out in Trieste
unloads some muddled all-people-
are-equal theories on the young chap
who’s with him, and insists on being
taken to the most disreputable dive in
the town. There the young chap leaves
him, and the count calls on the grubby
boss of the joint to bring a girl to his
table—any girl; the girl thash singin’.
So Joan Crawford makes her appear-
ance. She emerges from a dirty-dishes
background looking like the personifica-
tion of pernicious anaemia, appallingly
crooning a most heartrending ditty,
Who wants love,
Something to fill the heart with? —
every word, of course, in the crooning
manner drawn out on a dying note to 37
times its natural length. She mentions,
too, that whoever wants lllloooovvvveeee
she’ll manage without it, and so moan-
ing comes to the count. Here she shows
the spirit that’s in her in a few well-
chosen spitfire words, and the upshot is
that the count arranges her a fortnight’s
stay at a sassiety alpine resort, ward-
robe and all exes, found.
The rest, as far as the framework goes,
is easy guessing, and, catering well for
the public that will fall most heavily for
that line of appeal, the directors have
had the wisdom to make perfectly clear
what the ending’s going to be, with sign-
posts pointing to it at every step. Arrived
at the mountain railway station Joan en-
counters Tone, in the role of a ro-
mantically-minded postman, so favorably
projected at first sight that the closing
clinch is as good as there.
Joan, of course, has to weather
her fortnight at the hotel, meet a
pleasant - mannered young aristocrat
(Robert Young) and get within an ace
of pinching him off his fiancee before her
masquerade is uncovered, leaving her to
fall back on poetic postman.
Nothing very wonderful about all
that, certainly ; yet the film, done as it is
on a consistent fresh note of comedy,
fairly sparkles. No chance is lost of in-
jecting humor into it. Time after time
the brake is thus put on to emotionalism.
Settings are always either beautiful or
interesting, with such natural incidental
additions as a night festival in peasant
costumes. Photography has a sparkling
clarity ; there are shots of such subjects
as tables set with flowers and glasses that
are very lovely still-life studies. Pleasant
theme music makes a sound background
as agreeable in its way as the mountain
scenery, and acting all round is tip-top.
Joan—thank heaven —refrains from
singing any more after her first direful
outburst. She puts on gawkiness too
heavily for one brought up in the
sharpening school of a cheap cabaret,
performing like a rustic maid when
translated to the posh pubbery. She
improves greatly before the end, and no
doubt her whole interpretation will seem
quite in order to those for whom the film
is mainly intended.
At' any rate, she can handle a love
scene without letting it slop over, and
in Tone and Young has two agreeable
chaps for the purpose. So good a dra-
matic actor as Tone may seem rather
wasted in such an opus, but he fits in
well with the comedy note and gives one
or two glimpses which suggest that he’d
do a straight-comedy part brilliantly.
The main object of the film being to
convey to the general run of humans —
especially female—a compensating illu-
sion for inaccessible romantic luxury,
it gains considerably through being
shown in such a suitable setting as
Sydney State.
“Ticket to Paradise ”
Roger Pryor, Wendy Barrie.
Support at Sydney State, and a tiptop
entertainer in the best Hollywood comedy
style.
Of course, in the American manner,
lurv is made to hang in the balance
throughout, though not nearly so moistly
as usual, the comedy element being so
abundant that it wouldn’t matter greatly
if the side issue was trailing in molasses.
Neither does the basic yarn matter
much. It’s the old one of the chap who
loses his memory in a taxi accident in
Chicago, lands in N’Yark with his mind
a blank and on his way back to normal
meets goil who takes an interest in see-
ing him through. It’s the crowd of
things that happen on the way that
makes an audience shake.
One of the funniest things in it for
Australian audiences is the use that is
made of Australia. Though pa, wishing
to get rid of the young man, shouts to
his tame sleuth to “Get him anywhere!
Get him to Australia!” or words to that
effect, and the motif is repeated at later
points of the film, it’s humor without a
trace of bite in it. Or so it struck present
Australian, and the audience altogether
accepted it as a capital joke. Yet it
probably wouldn’t be funny at all, but
just damn’ superior, if it was in an Eng-
lish film.
Anyway, it’s a laugh in this American
one ; and the number of laughs in the
film altogether, plus those in the main
picture, will put a severe test on the
State’s comfortable pews.
“Navy Blue and Gold”
Seen at Sydney Capitol, this is
a more ambitious attempt than usual
to attach a stretch of drama to foot-
brawl, and, although M.-G.-M. have gone
to work with their usual thoroughness
and included Lionel Barrymore, James
Stewart, Robert Young and Tom Brown
to help with the job, it turns out to be a
poor stretch of entertainment.
The first half gives some interesting
snatches of the training of midshipmen
cadets for the navy. According to the
film these lucky young beggars are
selected on their merits from anywhere
and everywhere to enter a training col-
lege fit for a ballay old Aytonian. When
not engaged in footbrawl they are in-
structed in everything from fencing to
building battleships and taught how to
maintain the dig. of Uncle Sam’s navee.
That much, revolving around the col-
lege activities of three grads.—one an
earlier football pro., one from a ship’s
engine-room and one from the uppah
stratah —is bearable, but thereafter the
film rings as falsely as a dud two-bob.
Lurv interest enters at its stickiest, fic-
tional devices and coincidence are
stretched beyond breaking point and
large junks of mush, such as Mr. Young’s
five-minute tear-sodden monologue with
a bronze statue at midnight, crop up
with embarrassing frequency.
Naturally it all has to work up to a
finish with Mr. Stewart being cleared at
court-martial in time to assist the navy in
a victorious football match which must
be won lest the ailing Barrymore pass
out from a broken heart or something.
Taken all round the film is about as
artificial and plagiaristic an effort of its


wsawT 9
TOM
QnnijS»«^F
t)oi J-TLA
In . FINANCIER.
“GREATER THAU LEMIri
- "SCANDALS** ARRANGED C
SHORTEST NOTICE- * .
MO FOUNDATION necessary
n
pi
n
Tj
rf
h
x
m
HAPPY FAMILY*
THE
’ftkr
Th is is the alternative offered to sound,
enterprising, country -minded Government!
AND CONSIDER THIS:-
Like a political Rock of Gibraltar,
the Country Party has stood solid
and immovable throughout!
For 18 years it has faithfully represented the country
districts in Parliament, never varying in its allegiance to
its original ideals, loyal to its leaders, loyal to the people
who created it, loyal to all the best traditions of our country.
No intrigue has ever sullied its name; its members are men
of wholesome type, of whom any party might be proud.
Broadly sympathetic in their understanding of life —and
country life in particular—no truthful word of scandal has
ever been uttered concerning them.
And in 18 years 80 per cent, of the
things they set out to achieve have
been translated into practical
fact. That’s the acid test.
And the rest is coming!
For stability in government, honesty and intelligence in
local representation, and unswerving loyalty and integrity
there’s NO alternative to the Country Party
Don’t quarrel with your own Bread and Butters be true to yourselves and
VOTE COUNTRY PARTY
(Authorised by E. J. Munro, General Secretary, United Country Party, Bridge Street, Sydney). Voting
kind as has weltered across the screen for
a month or two, and meagre helpings of
Barnett Parker’s funny stuff come as
three drops of rain in a drought.
Accidents Will Happen ”
Ronald Reagan, Gloria Blondell.
Support to “Stage Door” at Sydney
Regent, this deals at some length with
organised swindling of insurance com-
panies, a racket already aired in one of
the “Crime-Does-Not-Pay” series.
A gentleman in a comfortable set of
offices plans and directs accidents, human
and otherwise, at the rate of a dozen or
so per week, and rakes in a tidy sum on
the insurance. For the purposes of the
story his activities are limited by a snoop-
ing company detective, who, however, is
framed with aid of his wife and booted
from his job.
How he reinstates himself and cleans
up the bunch of crooks is a long-winded
business, but quite according to the tradi-
tions of this sort of fillum.
Features of the offering which help it
most are the general likeableness of
Reagan and the Blondell lady, and such
malicious satisfaction as is *o be derived
from witnessing a meaty left hook to the
point of a piece of nastiness.
“Border Cafe”
Harry Carey, John Beal, Armida.
Deals mainly with our old friend the
wealthy young “playboy” who lights out
from parental boodle and starchiness for
the freedom of the open spaces and effects
his reformation along with a dash of Iurv
and a spot of bother with cattle-thieves.
There’s no reason to form a queue
from the Quay to the Capitol, but it’s
quite an unpretentious offering, mildly
funny in patches, has a bit of bang-bang-
bang and John Beal (young gent.), Harry
Carey (old rancher) and J. Carrol Naish
(villainising as usual) are satisfactory
enough.
The branch of crookdom exploited—
that of bumping off cattle from a moving
truck, then loading the carcasses aboard
and delivering them to a chain of
restaurants —is new to this showman, as
is Armida, a perky little Mexican minx
who supplies the heart interest and earns
a cheer for putting as much life and en-
tertainment into a couple of songandance
numbers as the average moaning hip-
snaker could put into 10,000 feet of
celluloid.
Lauri Kennedy.
An audience that should have been
larger woke up to the exceptional bril-
liance of Australian ’cellist Kennedy at
his final recital at the Assembly Hall,
Melbourne.
His principal subject matter was the
Beethoven sonata in D, op. 102, and the
unaccompanied sarabande, bourree and
gigue from the Bach suite in C major. In
the first-named the harsh sounds of the
initial movement and the easy melody
of the slow second gave Kennedy all
the opportunity he needed for showing
his skill at interpretation. His opera-
tions with the “thrown” bow on a rondo
of Boccherini earned respectful admira-
tion from the local instrumentalists in
attendance. His wife is a sound accom-
panist at the piano.
Kennedy’s ’cello is reported to have re-
ceived a call across the world for the
renowned Toscanini, who lately refused
to conduct an orchestra unless the Aus-
tralian was in it.
Minnies, Grown Up .
The show of photographs, American
and European, which decks the walls of
Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries (Sydney)
looks like any other show of artistic
camera work until you examine it a bit.
Then you notice that in the mount of
each of these big pictures (24in. by 15in.)
is inset something that looks like a
postage stamp —a print from the original
negative, lfin. by £in.
The quality of the enlargements helps
to explain the popularity of the modern
miniature camera —literally a vest-pocket
affair. Its tiny dimensions give it great
depth of focus, and modern lenses, some-
times as big as f2, bring .night scenes and
pictures of objects in rapid motion within
its scope.
Of special interest to “minnie” enthusi-
asts are the pictures from the cameras of
A. F. Baumann and Dr. Paul Wolf,
pioneers in the small-camera field. They
prove in close on a hundred ways that
the modern instrument, little bigger than
a matchbox, will do all that the cum-
brous old teak-and-brass field camera,
weighing up to 201b., could do.
Baumann’s pictures “Niagara Falls,”
“New York from the Air” and “Train-
ing Ship” stand out even in this fine
collection.
“Okay” in S.A.
“Okay for Sound,” at Adelaide Royal,
could be called “O.K. for Color.”
Elizabethan costumes are followed by
those of Nelson’s time, and those by a
blaze of modern searchlights.
For the rest, it is all a very good
variety show, ranging from Arab acro-
bats to roller-skating. Nirska, from the
U.S.A., has the biggest chance in her
butterfly, ballet (with the electricians
prominent here as all through the show);
and the S.A. girl Felicia Francis has a
good singing part.
Asia in Adelaide,
At the John Martin Gallery, Carl
Shreve shows his brilliant studies of Java
and Bali.
Bold work and vivid color are his
strong points, yet the work will always
stand close examination. From temples
to barns he follows the local builder’s
art, and the scanty national costumes
give his figure-work full scope.
This critic likes an impressionist vol-
cano crater, flaming in reds and golds
like a flower-study gone mad.
Amateurs and Charities.
The last show of the Adelaide Musical
Comedy Co., “The Vagabond King,”
made a profit of nearly £500. Alan
Chapman, the producer, and J. S. Ren-
dall, Adelaide manager for the William-
son co., did the financing, and have
divided the profit among seven local
charities.


Overseas visitors to
LONDON
desiring hotel accommodation
are recommended to stay at
HOTEL
GREAT CENTRAL
Marylebone Road, N.W.I
Cables: Centellare, London
or
HOTEL RUSSELL
Russell Square, W.C.I
These hotels have a high reputa-
tion for comfort and efficiency and
meet all modern requirements.
Bedroom, bath and breakfast
from 11/- per day.
Inclusive terms from 21/- per day.
Adjoining each hotel is an Under-
ground Station that links up with
all parts of London.
Tariffs can be had on application to:
“The Bulletin,” Box 252188,
Sydney.
s
Jj\Zer<ronic
| PILLS
Rouse your liver with the pill of the century.
Banish Constipation. Headaches, Bad Breath, etc.
Restore that youthful appearance and vigor with the
pill without the pain. Sold at all chemists, 1/6 for
40, 3/6 for 120 pills. Send 6d. in stamps for sample
of 12 pills, post free, to convince yourself. Bos
1182HH, G.P.0., Sydney.
KIDNEYS
CAUSE OF
MANY BACKACHES
Flush Out 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 miles of tiny tubes or filters which
strain the waste and acids from the blood. A
healthy person should pass 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous,
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. It may
lay you up for many months.
Don’t wait I Ask your chemist for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . used success-
fully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney dis-
orders. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes. So be
sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Warwick Farm netted society in its
race crowd on Saturday. Lady Wake-
hurst took out a party which included
her guest, Lady Moira Lyttleton, who
had sons Julian and Anthony and
daughter Rosemary with her. The Hon.
Henrietta Loder and Miss Maclean, of
Ardgour, also twinkled about, the one
in grass green, the other patterned in
navy and white. Mrs. Alan McGregor
in white and Mrs. Tom Owen in black
were two of the day’s smartest.
The March of Time Ball, which was
preceded by several moneymakers, the
principal of which was the music party
held in the home of the Greek Consul-
General a few nights earlier, was the end-
of-the-week social event. The cause
was the Limbless Soldier. The president
of the committee was Mrs. George
Parkes. Dame Enid Lyons came to
receive the debs, lvory-and-silver satin
brocades were trailed by Dame Enid,
who was impressive with decorations.
The presentation of the debs, was a
picturesque affair. The four girls,
partnered by officers of the R.A.A.F.,
and led by the Julius lady, stepped down
from the stage to the notes of “Advance
Australia Fair,” made their curtsey, and
were duly launched on their social flight.
Living pictures, representations of
famous paintings, had been arranged by
Josephine Marks. Margaret Ruthven
and Dorothy Browning (“Fidelity” and
“Madame Pompadour”) received great
applause ; so did the dignified “Duchess
of Devonshire” portrayed by Jocelyn
Taggart. “Mardi Gras,” “The Sea Hath
Its Pearls,” “The Angelus,” “Youth and
Beauty”, and “Vanity” were striking
groups. The whole ended with soprano
Gladys Verona as a glittering white-and
silver Titania, her fluent notes as silvery
as her robes. The Julius lady’s ice-blue
lace revealed the pale gleam of satin.
Mrs. D. G. Macdougall’s crepes were
beige-pink. Golden laces were worn by
Josephine Marks. Mrs. Norman
Macleod’s sapphire-blue chiffons were
sashed in cerise.
Director of the National Gallery Will
Ashton went to Manly one night last
week to unveil one of the two pictures
by Charles Bryant given by the late
artist’s family to the Manly Gallery. It
will be remembered that Charlie did much
to found this home of art on Manly’s
harbor front. His brother Marcus un-
veiled the second picture, and his two
sisters were honored guests at the cere-
mony. Mrs. Harry Twigden arranged a
programme of music, and she herself'
played piano numbers by Chopin and a
composition from her own pen, as grace-
ful as her own frock of honey-colored
lace with its cluster of mauve orchids.
Later the Hermon Slades took' a party
on to their home, where they showed
pictures of their recent travels, all in
color.
If you were a music-lover you braved
the purple and silver of the lightning-
split night sky and went to the
Showground to hear the choir of
5000 voices or to the Conserva-
torium to hear Dino Borgioli. As
far as the women were concerned the
tenor had a strong following. His pro-
gramme positively crackled with the elec-
tricity of emotion. “Caro Mio Ben,” the
dream aria from “Manon” and “Moon
of My Delight” flowed out with
artistic charm, unfolding fields of fair
romance. The Con. was crowded, and
the tenor's wife was an early arrival.
Nan Garvan was in the audience ; so was
Mrs. Walter Burfitt, her frock green and
gold patterned. Ruby Adams was dis-
tinguished-looking. With her black frock
she wore a short jacket of heavy ivory
lace collared in mink. Harry Tighe and
composer Roy Agnew and Mrs. Roy
were attentive listeners, pianist Lawrence
Godfrey Smith another. Rose-red
glowed Beatrice Wines’s frock.
Next Friday music-lovers will cover up
the baby grand, case the violin, hang out
the oboe and rush off to the Australia.
At three o’clock there’s to be a meeting
in connection with the coming series of
celebrity orchestral concerts. Of the
eight proposed concerts, six will be con-
ducted by George Szell or Malcolm
Sargent. Richard Tauber is to be one of
the concert plums, Guila Bustabo
another.
Feminist leader Mrs. Kenneth Street
went off to Europe in the Orontes. With
her went daughter Philippa, just out of
Sydney Church of England Girls’
Grammar. Before mother and daughter
left on this journey, which on Mrs. Ken-
neth’s part is to be a sort of unofficial
survey of women’s interests, they were
guests at a monster rally of the United
Associations. This was in David Jones’s,
and a packed house applauded Philippa’s
speech (her maiden one) almost as loudly
as her mother’s. President Mrs. A. W.
Keighley received in cool-looking floral
sheer. Lieutenant - Governor Philip
Street’s wife and granddaughter Belinda
were at the farewell.
Sydney is going to miss a lovely figure
in her ballrooms this winter, for Mrs.
Theophilus, of this Falk picture, goes
back to England in the Orford. Tall
and slim, and with a sort of cool prim-
rose prettiness, Mrs. Theophilus has been
one of the ornaments of the Navy set.
Now her husband, Paymaster-Lieutenant
Theophilus, is to rejoin the R.N., and
they leave us in May. They have both
enjoyed the life in Sydney, and will make
good unofficial ambassadors for Aus-
tralia.
The garden party at Elaine, the Double
Bay home of the Hubert Fairfaxes, was
the second one within a few days that
had starred Lieut.-Colonel Gordon and
Mrs. Gordon, of Northern Ireland. The
Colonel, as you remember, came to Aus-
tralia as one of the celebration’s honored
guests. In between formal functions the
pair made many friends. Among these
was Carlotta Doyle, secretary of the
Women Pioneers, and in the clubrooms
Carlotta the other morning spread an
11-o’clock tea-drinking for them. Mrs.
Fairfax’s out-of-doors gathering drew
the workers for St. Luke’s, among them
the urbane Archdeacon Charlton. There
were over 100 at the party.
There was sorrow in cricketing and art
circles last week for Arthur Mailey when
they heard the news of his wife’s death.
Mrs. Mailey was Maud Hinchcliffs
before she became Mrs. Mailey just two
years before the war.
From the enormous crocs, just inside
the door to the small pots of cultivated
bushland flower and shrub the exhibition
of Australian flora and fauna is packed
with charm. The basement of the Com-
monwealth Bank is not exactly ideal as
a show place for these wares, which could
be seen to so much better advantage by
daylight. There’s a feast of color and
romantic dreaming in a case of shells
burning with the iridescence of mother-o’-
pearl, faintly rose, pomegranate pink.
Here are horned shells through which
mermen might blow There's a placard
that reminds that shel s are a national
asset. Their beauty alone makes them
that J
, ... £ ~ , , ....
There s a display of birds (mercifully
Nothing puts this writer
so much m a rage as caged birds. Every
singer or chatterer o£ Gum Tree Flats
or garden suburbs is on the walls. The
cockatoos are an individualistic family.
There’s one with a palm frond on his
head, and near by a husky fowl who has
just pulled on a football jersey. A bril-
bant green butterfly has its wings nar-
rowly edged with black. In one corner of
iS , ° ne ’ lu ° ra ” Se “ mgS Tt
stretched. In another corner is one like
a daffodil. Woods, too, have their
beauties. Polished blackbutt, tallow,
mahogany and pine glow mellowly in
their own alcove. Topaz, emerald and
gold gleam the beetles. Minister for
Education Drummond opened the show,
which will Jast a fortnight, and which
is the special offering of the Zoological
Society for our 150th Birthday cele-
brations.
This is Joan, youngest daughter of
the artist Albert Collins couple. She is
following in father’s footsteps both in
her devotion to art and to the amateur
theatre. At the age of 10 she wrote a
revue which brought in £8 for the Crippled
Children’s Society. She frequently plays
small parts with the Independent group,
and is always on hand when there is a
job of making hessian look like Gobelin
tapestry. With sister Kathleen and father
she worked on the illustrations of Harold
Blake’s All the Way to Barcelona. She
designed one or two striking floats in
the celebrations procession. Late in
April Joan is going to fit a honeymoon
into her scheme of life. Husband-to-be
is Robert Osbiston, journalist, of Cre-
morne.
Trust Mrs. Pankhurst Walsh and the
Women of the Guild of Empire to pro-
duce an original idea. On Saturday, the
26th (election day), the Guild is holding
a conference on housing. Instead of tak-
ing a stuffy hall that might have a
lethargic effect on both speakers and lis-
teners, the Guild has hired a ferry, and
the conference will be held on board.
There will be tea for the mothers and a
Punch and Judy show for the children—
ice-cream, too. A vital feature of this
conference is that the people most con-
cerned in the problem under discussion
will be on the spot to take part in the
for and against. Women from Erskine-
ville, Waterloo, Woolloomooloo will be
present, and the question of flat versus
house is not an academic or aesthetic
one to them. A. J. Brown, a member of
the Housing Board and a past president
of the Architects’ Association, will be the
first speaker. Mary Edmonds, who has
just published a book on architecture, will
follow.
Sydney is proud to recognise the debt
it owes to the fine philanthropic work
and the scholarly attainments of Jewish
women citizens, so the city’s Mayoress
gave a reception to the delegates to the
Conference of the National Council of
Jewish Women. At the reception, Dr.
Fanny Reading, the Australasian presi-
dent of the movement, was the principal
speaker, and Mrs. Silberschmidt from
Cincinnati gave an illuminating though
brief survey of the work done by the
266 branches of the society in America.
Delegates came from Melbourne, Adel-
aide, Geelong, Ballarat, Perth, Brisbane
and Kalgoorlie, and from Maoriland. In
the afternoon the grounds of Elaine, the
Hubert Fairfax home, were gay with a
garden party in honor of the visitors.
The Maccabean Hall was the conference
centre.
Another bright and entertaining person
leaves our shores when Mrs. George
Rayner embarks (there’s no other word
to fit the luxury of the liner) in the
Empress of Britain. Mrs. Rayner, mother
of the srhiling Lord Gifford, who was
aide to Sir Philip Game, came to Sydney
for three weeks, and liked us so much
she has stayed for six years. She mightn’t
have been going away yet, but the chance
to travel by the Empress of Britain, she
says, could not be missed. All the
Empress boats are the last word in ele-
gance and solid comfort. Mrs. Rayner,
who has given so many parties, is now
the subject of a regular round of fare-
wells.
The invitation from the N.S.W.
Hockey Assoc, to send a team to Aus-
tralia during the sesqui. celebrations
reached New York towards the end of
last December. The American hockey
girls replied with a whoop, saying “Aus-
tralia could not have given a better
Christmas gift.” So now the girls are
busy packing their bags. They will
arrive here in the Mariposa, 16 of them,
on Easter Sunday. No less a person
than Gertrude Hooper, president of the
U.S. Field Hockey Assoc., is coming
with the team, the manager of which is
Martha Gable. All these players are
university graduates. Many of them are
physical training teachers; one is a lec-
turer in botany. All are associated with
the most important girls’ colleges in
America.
The city’s quite sentimental over the
engagement of Joy Barrington to
Lieutenant Stephen S. Daunis, of U.S.S.
Louisville. Joy and the young man met
when the U.S.A. cruiser visited Sydney
during the sesquicentenary celebrations.
The formal proposal came by cable, and
Lieutenant Daunis’s naval academy ring
was sent by the Awatea to seal the vows.
The real engagement ring is to be a
replica of this one, sapphire and all, and
will be made by Tiffany. The young
man comes from Boston, Mass.; Joy lives
with her mother at Edgecliff. She leaves
in the Monterey towards the end of
May, and will be married at Long Beach,
California.
The French library is very proud of
its latest possession. It is the journal of
La Perouse in several volumes, together
with accompanying maps. These are ex-
quisitely printed—it’s no wonder our
forebears didn’t need many spectacles—
on hand-made paper. 1796 is the year
and Paris the place of origin. Mrs. Ivy
Moore, who is in charge of this little
corner of France, is very pleased with
a recent mail from overseas which
brought her acknowledgment from the
secretary of Queen Mary and the Lady-
in-Waiting to Queen Elizabeth of the
copies of her book of verse Australian
Violets. These copies had been specially
bound in violet suede. Poet Laureate
Masefield and “Bartimeus” have written
acknowledging their copies.
It was exhilarating to watch Mrs. Hans
Meyer’s red shoes tapping out the tempo
of the polka, as sophisticated a sister to
the old romp as a Hollywood glamor girl
might be to “Little Orphant Annie.’’
Worn with the red shoes at the Indepen-
dents’ party was a frock of heavy white
crepe and red gloves. The color scheme
fitted in with the tango and the swift
swoop of the waltz which husband and
wife demonstrated. The Australia was
the scene of action, and Indepen-
dents came along in small groups and
dropped their five shillings into the box
for the health of the theatre. Clever
Sumner Locke’s “Charlotte Russe,” a
burlesque on the Brontes, would have
gone even better if the players had given
more attention to Wordsworth.


TRAVEL
ENGLAND
11X
m
x ■ H
m
■
m
il
mi
I
m
■ X * v
\ •
i
■
H.
&?y. ■ : v ‘Xyesx
?**
og<£ut. BAY LINER
THE WHOLE SHIP IS YOURS
THE One-Class Bay Liners have
recently been remodelled. A large
number of new single, two and three
porthole cabins have been provided,
also a new entrance lounge. In addi-
tion to the cabins mentioned above
there are a number suitable for families.
Travel ONE-CLASS and have the run
of the whole ship—the use of all decks,
lounges, smokeroom, etc. There is a
playroom for children. A well-stocked
library, sound films, dancing, swimming
pool (in the tropics), and other features
combine with the happy atmosphere of
comfort and friendliness to make every
moment of your stay on board enjoyable.
You select your cabin when you book.
The route is via Suez, and special
arrangements enable you to make shore
excursions at moderate cost. If you
wish you may leave the vessel at Port
Tewfik, visit Cairo, and rejoin her at
Port Said.
ONE CLASS ONLY
ABERDEEN & COMMONWEALTH LINE
For sailing dates, fares, etc., apply
DALGETY AND CO., LIMITED, ABERDEEN & COMMONWEALTH LINE, LIMITED,
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney or 17 O’Connell Street,, Sydney
Offices in all Capital Cities.
{lnc. in England).


■
9h
my m
m/i*
m f
Vi ■ i
THIS FREE COUPON
or a copy of same to be
sent with your name and
address and 3d. stamps. Mrs. HUDSON: Please send
me, free, your full information and instructions to
banish superfluous hair. Address: Frederica Hudson
(Apt. H.9), No. 9 Old Cavendish Street, London,
W.l. England.
IMPORTANT NOTE. — Mrs. Hudson belongs to a family
high in Society and is the widow of a prominent Army
Officer, so you can write her with every confidence to the
above address j where she has been established since 1910.
Who could tell that 8
once suffered from
SUPERFLUOUS HAIR?
NOW IT IS GONE FOR EVER
Looking at me now, with my clear, un-
blemished skin, who would ever guess
that once I veiled my face to hide the
hideous growth of ugly, disfiguring hair?
Yet that is so. For years my life was a
misery. As the young wife of an officer
in India I suffered the agonies of shame.
I had a distinct moustache, almost a
beard. Nothing did me any good. Even
the expensive, painful electric needle
brought nothing but a few days’ relief.
Always the ugly, disfiguring growths
came back again stronger than ever on
my face and body. Then, almost in a
day, my clouds were lifted in a most
amazing way. My husband saved the
life of a humble Hindoo soldier. In his
gratitude the Sepoy breathed to him the
closely-guarded secret of the Hindoo
religion which keeps the women of that
race free from any sign of superfluous
hair. I tried it in desperation. From
that day—now years ago—l have never
seen a sign of superfluous hair. I
watched for it daily for months, never
daring to hope that it was gone for
ever. But it was! I was cured com-
pletely. I was a normal woman again.
Mince then I have told many other
sufferers of my experience, and the secret
recipe has brought joy and freedom in
every case. If you, too, suffer, let me
help you. Let me tell you how I suffered,
and let me pass on to you the secret
that saved me. I shall gladly send it free
if you will send me coupon, or a copy of
it, to-day with your name and address,
stating whether Mrs. or Miss. All I ask
is that you send me three penny stamps
to cover my outlay for postage. Address:
Frederica Hudson (Apt. H. 9), No. 9 Old
Cavendish Street, London, W.l, England.
Melbourne
Chatter
Bright scarves, “skullie” cap soup?ons
on the backs of the heads of the very
young, raincoats and brogue shoes laced
around the ankles were among the utility
bits and pieces seen upon the damp Caul-
field lawns for the March meeting.
Among the rain-coated brigade were Mrs.
Darren Baillieu, whose protective outer
garment was chequerboarded in green
and beige, and Mrs. U. J. Nicholas,
whose oatmeal-colored coat had a
frivolous counterpoise of Paisley ker-
chiefs tucked around neck and crown
of hat. Mrs. Basil Fitchett kept her ankles
snug in stormproof booties. Mrs. John
Grimwade was among the many who
chose that useful steady of all seasons
the grey tailored suit.
There were wonders for all ages and
both sexes at the Chemical Exhibition.
The Alchemist was not always at home
in his cave (maybe he belongs to a trade
union), but his tools were there, and by
the look of his furnace he may have in-
dulged in a spot of glass-blowing. Spec-
tacular landmarks in the Glaciarium were
a tower of soap bubbles, a snowstorm of
rockwool (the flakes look like cotton-
wool, but they’re mineral and their job
is insulation) and a “polaroid disk” which,
whirling around, discovers gorgeous
colors in colorless tissue. Of interest
to folk who possess a fruit tree
or two in their back gardens was a lay-
out of stuff looking like honeycomb tape.
Bought by the foot and wrapped around
fruit trees it’s a booby trap for codlin-
moths. Among synthetic substances
shown were rubber (gloves, mugs,
buckets, etc.) and an unbreakable and
colored-to-taste material used for a
variety of domestic implements, includ-
ing telephones and kitchenware.
Womenfolk were intrigued with what
looked like good-bye to moth-ridden
woollies, to ruined rain-spotted frocks,
and to the hot stuffy feeling of wearing
rubber-lined raincoats. The knock on the
head for the insectivora is a powder.
Only one treatment is necessary, after
which the garment may be washed re-
peatedly, but never again will it be palat-
able to moths or silverfish. At one stall
ink was being poured over silk stockings
without damaging them, for it ran off
like rain over a roof. At another stall
streams of water were kept running over
a dress fabric which never became wet.
The demonstrator of this liquid-proof
German product, a colorless paste, told
those interested that the responsibility of
“proofing” dress materials (a method too
involved for home use) has been given
to a Melbourne firm of dry cleaners,
whose charges are in accordance with the
weight of the garment. He explained
that there is no difference in appearance
between pieces of the same material
treated and untreated. Both look and
feel alike, and the pores don’t close up in
the treatment, so there is no discomfort
from lack of ventilation.
There was a cake show in the lower
Town Hall last week. Cakes of all kinds
were exhibited. Many of the iced speci-
mens were monuments of patience and
craftsmanship, though some of these in
the wedding section seemed as over-
elaborate as a profiteer’s mausoleum. In
the birthday section were many creditable
one-tiered entries, and in the open sec-
tio for original ideas there was a field
for humor as well as beauty. One all-in-
sugar prize-winner was a set of books
and book-rests, one volume promising
information upon “The Use of Steam in
the Puff Up of Push Pastry.” On a
white sugar dish were three little pink
pigs, complete with an extra set of
trotters and later development in saus-
ages. Some chocolate elephants went
through their circus tricks, and sugar
roses were realistically full blown upon
thin wire stems invisible in the sugar
vases. A clever thing was “The Ides of
March,” a sugar plaque wherein Julius
Caesar in sepia tones was pictured the
night before his death.
This is the season when crowded ships
leave every few days for abroad, when
friends rush down to Station Pier or Vic-
toria Docks to fight their way along con-
gested decks and into cabins filled with
flowers and no vases, with luggage and
no owners, and out again for a scrambled
embrace with an often-tearful departing
one, to clutch streamers and hats in the
wind, and finally go home and chal-
lenge the arithmetical progress of young
sons and daughters in calculating the
number of streamers consumed at one
sailing hour. Among those who went
off in the Orontes, which sailed yester-
day in a squall of streamers and over-
loaded with flowers and glazed cover-
lets of fruit, was Lorraine Cumming,
of Camperdown, who is bound for Eng-
land and some beauty spots of Europe.
Eve Ray photograph.
In the spirit of one artist’s appreciation
for another artist’s work. Margaret Mac-
lean has done a good Girl Scout action
by offering William Ricketts the use of
her gallery for his first exhibition. With
his ceramics, Ricketts, a recluse of Olinda,
has produced something out of the box.
It is regrettable that Professor Baldwin
Spencer is no longer alive to see the
legends of the Arunta tribe of abos,
illustrated with such sympathy and deli-
cacy of touch. Many of Ricketts's
“pitchi” vessels are baked, but unglazed
and uncolored save for small groupings
at mouth or handle of “Churinga Talk”
or other fanciful illustrations of the
Arunta’s theory of evolution. One of
the stories from which Ricketts gathered
his inspirations is about two young picca-
ninnies who lay in the sun, which burnt
them so that they changed color. They
grew up, and eventually had long whis-
kers which they stroked, when out of
them sprang two “euros” (kangaroos).
Eventually the piccaninnies became old
men, but before they died they cut off
their whiskers, which floated away to the
clouds and turned into the rainbows, and
it is these rainbows that prevent the rain
from falling and filling the billabongs.
The doings of Wahwea, the water
monster, have also given Ricketts ideas
for his stories in clay. His work has
charm and meaning, and is executed with
a delicate balance of design and color.
It may have caused something of a stir
if more people had known about it when
the Commonwealth Government was
keeping its eyes open for Australian
exhibits to be sent to the Glasgow
Exhibition.
There are some virile posters on view
at the exhibition in Riddell’s galleries,
but the show, as a show, is submerged
in the intensity of propaganda, so that
the effect on the whole is of large head-
lines rather than the work of the artists
and their skill with brush and pencil. The
Spanish Government forces are as lambs
at the slaughter; the Nationalists are the
big bad wolves, with clawed hands and
nailed boots. There is a rather puzzling
map, England, France and Czecho-
slovakia in white, the rest of Europe
black and near-black, which is intended
to illustrate what would happen if all
the lambs are gobbled up by the hungry
wolves. The word Fascism, appears
everywhere, but there’s never a whisper
of Communism in the lamb’s studbook.
In the Broothorn portrait is the Wal-
lace Mitchells’ elder daughter Jean, who
left Melbourne last week to spend a
holiday in Sydney. Jean is sharing in
her family’s pride and rejoicing over
Marauder’s success in the Australian
Cup, which success, owing to the youth
of most of the folk in the Mitchell house-
hold, was celebrated with much noise and
vigor. Jean is 18, the baby’s two and
the complete total of children numbers
eight.
One evening last week, as early as a
quarter to eight, a stream of people
mounting the steps of the Assembly Hall
met a current coming in the opposite
direction —soon all were one stream,
those turned away with not even stand-
ing room in the hall. The interest was
caused by Mrs. Fabian Chow and Mrs.
Elsie Soong, who were lecturing upon
China under the auspices of the League
of Nations Union. These Chinese dele-
gates are certainly a great success in the
mission entrusted to them. They speak
with dignity but without rancor, and
they look so charming that they are
propaganda in themselves.
If imitation is the sincerest form of
flattery then Mrs. Chow should consider
herself a great success in something quite
dissimilar from the serious purport of
her mission. It’s her style of hairdressing.
Since she and Mrs. Soong arrived here
Melbourne women have been trying to
explain to their hairdressers exactly how
they want their hair waved with twin
rolls, perpendicular, and high at the back
of the head behind the ears.
Mrs. Chow came to the party in a
black gown shot with a narrow gold
thread. Mrs. Soong’s national costume
glowed with several shades of brown.
Most of the other guests seemed to think
along the same lines in the matter of
navy and white apparel, marching orders
for such an alliance being given by Mrs.
Herbert Brookes, Mrs. A. S. Wilkinson,
Mrs. Alan Brockhoff, Reba Shearer
(off to England in the Strathmore) and
a number of others. Alison Reid s dress
and hat put in a word for scarlet, while
Alison herself discovered what a small
place the world is after all. On inquir-
ing of Mrs. Soong about the only Chinese
she knows in the whole of China, she
heard that he is an acquaintance of Mrs.
Soong, that he is quite well and carry-
ing on his work notwithstanding the war.
In an address last week at the Inter-
national Club Mrs. Fabian Chow com-
menced with “Ladies and gentlemen,
when, seeing that there were only a couple
of men present, she proceeded to break the
ice with a tale of the day the Women’s
Federation of America was entertaining
Mary Pickford in New York. Mary’s then
husband, Douglas Fairbanks, was the only
man present on a stage fluttering with
women. Things went along all right
until the chairman, in a moment of
absentmindedness, introduced Doug as
“Mr. Pickford,” whereupon he jumped
to his feet to say that, although he’d mar-
ried the world’s sweetheart, he really had
hoped to keep his maiden name.
The dress shows have come and gone,
filling hearts with envy and heads with
ideas. Black is on the very crest of
fashion —you can wear it for morning,
afternoon and evening, but when the
lights are low it should shimmer with
sequins, even unto those the size of a
penny. Among tweed suits there is a
division of opinion about coats, for some
are short, snugly fitting, beltless and but-
toned all the way, and others are knee-
length, with swing backs and shoulders
pqdded to look square but without the
bulgy gathers of last year. Zippers are
everywhere, down the backs of dresses
and up the fronts of coats. Hats can do
anything they please as long as they do
it on high. Some are shaped like the
pitchers in which the Egyptians carried
water from the well; others are as the
folded caps which the bishops of the
Middle Ages placed upon their bald
heads. For evening the sequinned veil
has a charm in inverse ratio to its useful-
ness. The house coat has come to stay—
it’s the smartest and most comfortable
thing so far in the evolution of indoor
garments.
If Elizabeth Darling and John Bail-
lieu had specially ordered their wedding-
day weather it could not have been an
improvement upon the blend of sunshine
that shone upon the fairy weights of
white tulle worn by the bridal retinue
and the faint breeze that carried the per-
fume of flowers between the garden at
Warrawee and the festively-arrayed
rooms within the house.
A feature of the reception was the
absence of speeches, “The King” and
“The Bride and Bridegroom” being the
only toasts honored. After the latter the
’groom stood up, said “Thank you” and
sat down again, amidst applause. Among
the guests was Wallace Anderson (he
and the ’groom were at Cambridge to-
gether), who stepped out of a Sydney
’plane at Essendon half an hour before
the ceremony, and who arrived at the
church complete in morning-coat and
companionate regalia half a minute
before the bride’s arrival. It was an
afternoon wedding, and in the evening
about 120 of the younger folk returned
once more to Warrawee for dancing. At
the hospitable party nothing was for-
gotten: from champagne to English
salmon. The newly-wedded couple are
spending their honeymoon at Portsea at
the M. H. Baillieus’ house. Their first
home will be within coo-ee of both golf
and swimming. It’s to be the Mark Gard-
ner domicile at Sandringham.
Even the gods in the old Apollo were
fully occupied on the solitary night of
“The Unguarded Hour,” for the Power
House people, who work for the Somers
Camp, and Terence Crisp, who produces
for them, were all for the short and the
merry in lieu of a longer season that
might have flopped towards its close.
Honors for acting went to Duncan Col-
quhoun-Kerr as the gentleman from Scot-
land Yard, and, in his first bewigged
court scene, to prosecuting counsel
Hector Alcock, but the climax of the
evening was Merrie Hart’s frock. Among
spectators were Councillor Campbell,
who smoked a quiet cigarette during the
interval in the foyer before rejoining the
Lady Mayoress and some younger mem-
bers of the Campbell family _in a box.
The Kent Hughes couple were noticed ;
also Mrs. Montague Cohen, she in a fur
coat, Dr. Ron Rome, Gwen Williams
emitting not a single shiver in her
diaphanous white chiffon gown, Sue
Broadcast wearing a small black hat and
white camellias, Margaret Swinburne in
a successful diffusion of midnight-blue
organza over emerald taffeta, and Nancy
Gollin wrapped to the chin in a fur coat.


EXPERT ADVICE given on Business
or Personal matters. Satisfaction guaran-
teed or money refunded. Fee from 10s.
No Advice, No Charge.
EVERARD HEDEMANN,
Expert General Adviser,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6115.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Friday .
ONE
FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATE gives your
1. An interest in 20 of Australia’s lead-
ing companies.
2. Liberal income yield.
3. High margin of Capital security.
For as little as £22 (approx.) you cai
secure an interest in 20 sound enter-
prises, known throughout Australia.
Income is paid twice yearly. Custodian Trustees for investors;
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD,
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
ssge
2®
AVJS
20
pan'^- s
COM
Listen in to the “Romance of Industry” session
each Wednesday night at 9.30 from IUE.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
carried on in the best traditions of the
outer Hebrides of Scotland. There is no
element of surprise in them —the armies
can be heard miles away, swearing as no-
body ever swore in Flanders. Eventually,
they line up opposite each other in less
clothes than Eve ever wore. Each side
outdoes the other in mimic insult and
abuse. Then a few spears fly and there
may be a nulla nulla charge if the exer-
cises in objurgation in which the infantry
has been engaged have not fatigued them
too much. Sometimes a few people mis-
guidedly get in the way of weapons, and
when a little blood has been drawn the
invaders retire to await the return visit
which the invaded invariably pays. A
little more blood is spilt, the visitors go
home. Perhaps half a dozen not-so-good
warriors, who, anyway, are getting a bit
long in the tooth, are wiped out, to the
relief of everybody. There are no peace
treaties, no Leagues formed, no indemni-
ties, no Defence of the Realm Act and
no war loans to be paid off. There are
things in which we can learn a lot from
Binghi.
* * # *
“Jindivick”: The boys, full of beer and
with plenty more in the car, were going
to a lodge ball in our part of Queensland.
“El V.”: N. W. Lockyer, a candidate
for the Toowong Assembly seat, can cer-
tainly boast that he is all-Australian. His
grandfather, Major Edmund Lockyer
(born 1784), arrived with the 57th Regi-
ment in September, 1825, and was imme-
diately sent to explore the Brisbane River,
which he navigated for 121 miles from its
mouth. He discovered the first coal in
Queensland. The Lockyer district is
named after him. On January 21, 1827,
he founded the first settlement in W.A.
He was afterwards P.M. at Parramatta,
and settled on his grant at Lockyer s-
leigh, Goulburn (N.S.W.)j before becom-
ing sergeant-at-arms in the N.S.W. Par-
liament. His son, Nicholas, born in
1855, joined the N. S. Wales civil service
in 1868, knew all the great figures
of the Wentworth-Parkes period, and
had spoken to men who were acquainted
with Macquarie and John Macarthur and
with an old lady whose father had sailed
with Captain Cook. Nicholas became
Comptroller of Customs, member of the
Inter-State Commission and a Repat.
man. He died in 1933, so that the lives
of father and son stretched over 149
years. Young Nicholas is 36, and has
been in business in Brisbane for many
years.
* * $ *
“Nagoh”: The wet season in North
Queensland is not the best time to be-
come ill. In the Ingham district dur-
ing very heavy rain, 15in. of which
fell within three days, the ambulance
received a call to Mt. Fox, 40 miles
away. The patient had to be brought
a distance by first one lorry and then
another, and was then transferred to the
ambulance car, which was held up at
Stone River on the return trip on ac-
count of flooded creeks. The manager
of Victoria mill then sent out a small
rail car. It, too, was stopped by flood.
Another ambulance was dispatched from
Ingham, and the bearers succeeded in get-
ting their charge aboard. Before reach-
ing Ingham, however, the car was bogged
and had to be pulled out by a tractor.
* * si:
“M. Turlutu”: Brisbane City Council
is scratching its head over land values.
In June, 1936, it sold a disused park at
Hamilton with 540 ft. of river frontage
to a firm which wanted it for a wharf.
Price was £3250 —say, £6 a foot. Adjoin-
ing the park is an also-disused street-end
leading to the river, vested in the Lands
Department. An offer for it, made by the
buyer of the park, was submitted to the
Land Court. After excluding any aug-
mentation-value, the Court fixed the fair
price at £l6 per foot.
* >? * *
“X.T.”: Central Australia has been
enjoying the old-man flood of all time
in the Alberga region, north of Oodna-
datta. The Alberga runs out of the
Musgrave Ranges into the north of
Lake Eyre; and picks up the spare flood-
waters of the Finke and one or two
other streams (when there are any) be-
fore it reaches its mouth, which is only
a few miles from where the Diamantina
comes in from the Queensland side. Nor-
mally, it is a sandy bed with very occa-
sional small waterholes. The average
rainfall of the region is about 4i-in., and
the surrounding sand is so porous that,
when rain does fall, it usually soaks
away in a few hours. However, this
year’s burst brought the river over its
banks, and at Lambinna station it was
almost up to the tops of the giant gums
which overhang the stream bed.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Civilisation has spread to
such an extent in Australia that it isn’t
possible any more to conduct the peren-
nial Arnhem Land war which used to
take a regular seasonal course without
the great white cities hearing about it.
Sportin’ little events these shows are,
“Watch y's step, lad; snakes is bad in 'ere.”
The roads were rough but dry ; no rain
had fallen for about three months. When
the journey had extended about eight
beers’-lengths, one of the lads noticed
that the countryside was somewhat
strange. “Looks to me,” he said, “as
if it’s been raining round here; look at
them ruts full of water over there. Where
are we?” “Lord knows!” grunted the
driver. “Perhaps we’d better follow them
ruts —they must lead somewhere!” So
they followed, bumping and bucking ter-
ribly. In the dim dawn a carload of
half-dozen revellers was awakened by an
irate engine-driver who demanded to
know what the blazes they meant by
parking their car on the railway line.
* * H= *
“Quebe”: Cassowaries must be get-
ting scarce nowadays if they found
only in Cape York Peninsula (B. 9/2/’3B),
as their habitat was formerly much
further south. I saw them 45 years ago
at the Cuttaburra Creek, on Maranoa
cattle station, then owned by old “T.Y.1.”
Jimmy Tyson, and also on Boorara
(s.-w. Q.), but there is none in those
districts now. All the ground-nesting
birds are gradually being exterminated
by the imported pests, such as pigs and
foxes.
* * ¥
“Sandpatch”: The Flinders River
(n.-w. Q.) isn’t the only inland stream to
be visited by sharks. In one of the large
waterholes of the Fitzroy River, close to
Jubilee Homestead (West Kimberley) and
some 300 miles from the ocean, are to be
found not only sharks but swordfish and
stingrays as well. The water is quite
fresh, but the strange assortment is there
all the year round, though cut off from
any chance of communication with the
ocean except during the wet season.
* * * *
“Huglow”: On a motoring trip along
a W.Q. road I was doing an even 40
m.p.h. when an emu loped out of the
bush at the roadside and kept pace, peer-
ing into the interior of the car. Coming
to a rabbit-fence cattle-grid, I passed
through without slowing up, but the big
bird, too busy satisfying its curiosity,
knocked itself cold on the grid post.
* * * ♦
“Amateur Pro.”: The Queensland
Rugby Union has refused the affiliation
of the Brett-Windsor club, which had a
good season in the senior ranks last year.
The reason given is that the club, spon-
sored by a Brisbane firm, has been re-
cruiting its players from the League ranks
by finding them employment on their
joining the Union organisation. Really,
the practice has flourished for many
years in Queensland and N.S.W., though
never as openly as in Brisbane.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Programme at the concert arranged
to help stock the Lady Mayoress’s stall
at the Government House fete for the
Bush Children’s Health Scheme and the
Red Cross included dances, vocal and
instrumental items and amusing little
sketches. Mary McNeish was the hon.
sec., and Doreen Gray the treasurer. The
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress brought
a party.
, j tt t r, . j
Margeiy Short and Hugh Preston de-
cided on March 16 as their wedding
rv/q «n he n£ w bome be at Moree
(N.S.W.), so Margery bade a group of
til I°r? n a tareweb tea «
the R.Q. Golf Club. There was a golf
competition, which was won by Mrs. R.
Adams and Mrs. P. Ward, and a guess-
ing competition, the prize for which
went to Mrs. G. Green.
.
Eleanor Rivett, M.A., principal of the
Union Mission High School, Calcutta,
is spending her furlough in Brisbane with
her sister, Dr. Christina Rivett. Nina
Brentnall, who is acting as principal of
the Women’s College while Freda Bage
is in U.S.A., is an old friend, and there
was a joyful reunion. Eleanor Rivett is
keen on old Indian art, and has encour-
aged her high-school pupils to design
borders for their saris in which almost-
forgotten patterns are used.
The two McLeod girls, not long back
from an overseas trip, entertained the
members of the Victoria League at a
private screening of their travel films.
Miss Jarrett lent the assembly hall at
Somerville House for the party. The
Imperial War Veterans’ Fund benefited.
Military sports drew a large crowd at
Bishop’s Park, Toowoomba, carloads
hurrying in from as far afield as Bris-
bane. At night the 11th Light Horse
held their camp dance, Major A. E. G.
Campbell and Mrs. Campbell, the lady
in marine-blue cloque, receiving the
guests.
At the annual meeting of the Southern
Division of the C.W.A. in Toowoomba,
Mrs. E. E. Farmer again was re-elected
president, unopposed. Mrs. Graham
Mylne, the State president, and an army
of representatives from north and west
were in Toowoomba for the meeting.
The garden party arranged by the
ladies’ committee of King’s College
always is a cheery affair. The grounds
are delightful, and the big, shady old
trees make a cool canopy for the tea-
tables. About 200 guests went along
this year.. Mrs. W. Webb, president of
the committee, and Mrs. H. H. Trigge,
wife of the college principal, greeted the
visitors. Archie Day arranged the musi-
cal programme, and the stalls soon were
cleared of their wares.
The new Home for Crippled Children
soon will own curative baths. Two new
fireproof dormitories, provided by
George Marchant and Lord Nuffield,
were officially opened by Sir Leslie
Wilson, and the Premier did a little
speechifying. Rotarians have done a lot
for the Home, and raised the cash to
build the baths, plans for which are prac-
tically completed. Only five years old,
* be institution has done good work
among children, and over 100 patients
have either been restored to complete
health or so improved that they have
been able to return ho me. R> p Tunley
mac } e and presented a doll’s house, a
delightful miniature villa, which was dis-
posed of during the afternoon. The
wee house even had electric-light fittings,
and sat in the midst of a |reen lawn
an d a garden
wr » ,
k ai }s p ountl J Womens Club
began the business of the year with a
debate on “Can women successfully com-
bine marriage and business?” President
Merna Gillies was of opinion that women
in business or practising a profession
cannot make a success of both job and
home.
Guests who attended the wedding of
Commander R. B. A. Hunt and Jean
Douglas came from all over the place,
Judith Marshall, who is to marry the
bride’s brother on April 2, was among
them, and stayed with Annis Mathewson.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 361 of 1936.
BETWEEN MICHAEL ALLAN SWEENEY
Petitioner
And JOSEPHINE MARGARET
SWEENEY Respondent.
TO JOSEPHINE MARGARET SWEENEY
late of 48 Upper Pitt Street Kirribilli.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MICHAEL
ALLAN SWEENEY has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the second day
of June One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
eight and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or' obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of March, a.d. 1938.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
R. C. TISDALE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 250 of 1938.
BETWEEN ARTHUR WILLIAM BOSTICK
Petitioner
And MARY MENA BOSTICK Respon-
dent.
TO MARY MENA BOSTICK late of Corri-
mal New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that your husband
ARTHUR WILLIAM BOSTICK has com-
menced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a disolution of your
marriage on the grounds that you have deserted
him without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the First
day of June One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-eight AND in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of March, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
McINTYRE, CONLON & CO., Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
FORBES.—MISS ELSIE LINDA (daughter of
Mrs. Rose Alice Forbes, of 201 Victoria Parade,
Fitzroy, Victoria, who died on the 28th June,
1936 —sometimes known as Mrs. Rose Hughes).
Please communicate with THE TRUSTEES,
EXECUTORS & AGENCY COMPANY, LTD.,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria,
RZfPATRICOAMES RYAN, late of~Hard-
grave Road, West End, Brisbane, in the
State of Queensland, deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that DANIEL or
THOMAS RYAN, father of the abovenamed
deceased, and all persons claiming to be next-
of-kin of the abovenamed PATRICK JAMES
RYAN, late of Hardgrave Road, West End,
Brisbane, in the State of Queensland, deceased,
who died on or about the Thirteenth day of
August, 1937 A.D., at Hardgrave Road, West
End, Brisbane, in the said State, are hereby
required to forward proof of their relationship
to THE PUBLIC CURATOR, BRISBANE,
on or before the Thirty-first day of May, 1938.
And that after the expiration of the last-
mentioned date The Public Curator will proceed
to distribute the assets of the said deceased
amongst the parties entitled thereto, having
regard only to the claims of which he shall
then have had notice.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of February,
1938.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Public Curator, Brisbane.
William Ballarat Barker.
IF WILLIAM BALLARAT BARKER, a
brother of Septimus John Barker, late of
Armstrong Street North, Ballarat, in Victoria,
Investor, last heard of in Sydney, communi-
cates with the undermentioned Company he
will hear something to his advantage.
THE BALLARAT TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
& AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED,
101 Lydiard Street North,
Ballarat, Victoria.
A. R. HAMILTON, Manager.
Divorce Notices.
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO SUSAN CAROLINE MEECHAM for-
merly of 37 Westmoreland Street Glebe
Sydney in the State of New South Wales
but whose present whereabouts are un-
TAKE WI NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane m the State or
Queensland numbered 454 of 1937 by ROBERT
FRANCIS MEECHAM your husband in which
he claims a dissolution of his marriage with
you and by his petition filed herein he alleges
that since about the month of September 19//
you without cause deserted him and have con-
tinuously so deserted him for five years and
upwards AND IT HAS BEEN ORDERED
that service of the petition and writ ot sum-
mons on you be effected by the publication ot
this notice once each in the “Telegraph Bns-
bane the “Sydney Morning Herald” Sydney and
the Sydney “Bulletin” Sydney and by posting in
prepaid letters a copy of this notice addressed
to you respectively at 37 Westmoreland Street
Glebe Sydney and at 21 Queen Street Newtown
Sydney IF YOU DESIRE TO DEFEND this
action YOU MUST within forty-four days from
the date of the last act done as aforesaid enter
an appearance at the Registry of the said Court
and in default of such appearance judgment
may be entered against you.
DATED the Eighth day of March, 1938.
(L.s.) J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy Registrar.
STEPHENS & TOZER, Solicitors, 236 George
Street, Brisbane. ,
in”” the supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2191 of 1937.
BETWEEN MARIE GRACE HUNT Peti-
AneTcLEMENT VINCENT HUNT Re-
spondent.
TO CLEMENT VINCENT HUNT formerly
of Newcastle. „ „
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARIE
GRACE HUNT has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of habitual drunkenness and habitual failure to
support for three years AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Sixth day
of June next and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of March, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, 2 York
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 386 of 1938.
BETWEEN MARGARET ASHLEY Peti-
tioner
And CHARLES WILLIAM ASHLEY Re-
spondent.
TO CHARLES WILLIAM ASHLEY formerly
of Mayville near Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARGARET
ASHLEY has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Sixth day of June One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-eight and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of March, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; By their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, 2 York
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2203 of 1937.
BETWEEN HAROLD JOHN KELLY Peti-
tioner
And DORIS ANN KELLY Respondent.
TO DORIS ANN KELLY late of Adelaide in
the State of South Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HAROLD
JOHN KELLY has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is' applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Ninth day of June One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
Dated this Tenth day of March, One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
By the Court,
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
R. M. EWING & BADHAM, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
LARCOMBE.—If RICHARD GARNALD
WESLEY LARCOMBE, son of Richard Lar-
combe, late of Echuca, will communicate with
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY, 472
Bourke Street, Melbourne, he will hear some-
thing to his distinct advantage. He was last
heard of in 1931 in the district of Gilgandra,
New South Wales.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Despite its historical interest as one
of the oldest settlements in W.A., Guild-
ford was without a Town Hall until the
present civic fathers planned an imposing
new edifice. Knight James Mitchell
opened the building, surrounded by Par-
liamentary heads and representatives of
old Guildford families. A civic ball at
r.ight showed off the full glories of the
hall. Mayor E. A. Evans had his other
half, dad in rose taffetas veiled with
cobwebby black laces, to help him do
the honors. Mrs. Pat Maxwell, who used
to be Elvia Hamersley, of one of the
original Guildford tribes, scattered o.s.
pink blooms over her draped silver faille,
and Mrs. Herbert Hamersley (of the
Harper clan) perched a silver-strand
evening cap on her dark curls above
clinging black crepes. Mrs. Harry Calder
swung floor-length floating draperies
from cloudy amber crepe swathings,
Carol Harper mingled rainbow tints in
her pleated Grecian ninons, and Cecily
Priestley sprinkled gold coin spots over
bouffant pink taffetas.
The tiny Soldiers’ Memorial Chapel in
St. George’s Cathedral saw the exchange
of vows between the only lass of Dr.
and Mrs. Myles, of Moora, and R. Chad-
wick. The petite bride wore her mother’s
lovely wedding frock of deep-cream
Limerick lace over deeper-toned satin,
A full basque was encircled with a pearl
girdle, and the tight-fitting bodice and
sleeves were finished with folds of cream
net. A tulle veil of the same vintage
was held on her dark locks with a dia-
mente tiara. Swinging a basket of
dahlias, two diminutive flowergirls pre-
ceded the bride up the aisle, clad in Kate
Greenaway froths of cream net sashed
respectively with deep rose and wood-
land green, to carry out the color scheme
of the bridesmaids. Valmai Wood,
whose next appearance at a wedding will
be as the leading lady, ’maided in petunia
cloque, turbaned to match, and with a
lei of gerberas and asters falling to below
the waist. Ursula Burt’s contrasting
woodland-green crepes were also hung
with a floral lei, and auburn curls glinted
through her strapped matching turban.
Karrakatta Club members regarded
Mrs. Mollie Bowes-Kelly’s wedding with
very mixed feelings, for she was very
highly valued as the club sec. She is
a daughter of the late T. J. Davey, of
Melbourne, and Mrs. Harold Reade, of
Perth, and the ’groom is Martin, the
younger son of Mrs. H. P. Woodward,
of Mount-street. Relations and very
intimate friends were invited to the
doings afterwards, which were at Ken-
denup, the home of the Hassell sisters,
the bride’s aunts. Tailored bridal raiment
of ice-blue French crepe coated with
belted navy broderie anglaise was topped
with an upstanding French beret to
match, bewinged with ice-blue and navy
plumage.
At the Inkpen-Clarke nuptials two very
old Westralian families were united. The
bride, Constance, is the fourth of the
F. J. Inkpens’ bevy of daughters, and the
bridegroom the only son and heir of the
George Clarkes, of Bunbury.
Margaret Montgomery, one of a brace
of Albany sisters recently returned from
Coronation junketings and presentations
at Court, has announced her engagement
to an Englishman, J. W. Phillip, of
Surrey. The family packs trunks almost
immediately for the return journey via
U.S.A., and wedding bells will ring in
London in July.
The J. A. Collisters, of South Perth,
who are doing a leisurely motoring tour
of the E.S., have acquired a prospective
son-in-law on the way. Joyce, one of
their twin daughters, has said “Yes” to
Alton Marsh Lillie, only son of Mrs. A.
Law and stepson of Dr. Law, of Toorak.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The marriage of Helen, second daugh-
ter of Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Solomon,
Rose Park, to Keith, son of Mr. and
Mrs. S. K. Levy, of Bellevue Hill, Syd-
ney, took place at the Synagogue. The
bride was gowned in white satin, and a
coronet of silver sequins held her tulle
veil in place. Matrons of honor were the
bride’s sister, Mrs. Norman Levy (Mel-
bourne), and Mrs. J. V. Christophersen,
both frocked alike in ice-blue and silver
lame, with short tulle veils attached to
Juliet caps of silver sequins. A reception
was afterwards held at the South Aus-
tralian. The newly-weds are both law
graduates.
There was a large gathering of past
and present students of the Elder Con.
in the Elder Hall when the director, Dr.
Harold Davies, celebrated his twentieth
year in office. Prof. Davies and his
wife received the guests. A short musi-
cal programme was followed by supper
in one of the classrooms.
Invitations have been issued by Mr.
and Mrs. Gerald O’Dea for the marriage
of their elder daughter Rosemary to
John, the only son of Senator and Mrs.
Walter Duncan, of Parkside, on March
23 at Scots Church, North Terrace.
Mrs. Don Bradman motored to N. S.
Wales accompanied by her sister, Mrs.
R. Gillam, who came to Adelaide to
travel back with her. Before their de-
parture friends took them for a night
flight in a Guinea Airways ’plane. Mrs.
Bradman will be the guest of her parents
at Bowral, and later will stay with her
two sisters in Sydney.
Mrs. J. Harder, sister of the Misses
Beck, Pillaroo, Grange, after residing
for many years in China, arrived recently
on a visit to relatives accompanied by her
daughter, Mrs. Howard Mays, and her
daughter’s young son Charles Mays.
Mrs. Harder has left another married
daughter behind her in China.
Dr. and Mrs. Malcolm Cockburn gave
a cocktail party at their home at Walker-
ville, when the guests were entertained in
the garden, refreshments being served on
the lawns, amidst the flowers, especially
gay at this time of year.
Cordelle Mason, who some years ago
took up interior decoration as a career,
is leaving for England in the Orcades.
She previously studied there, and, return-
ing to Adelaide, has been practising her
profession for the last five years. A
further term of study in London is her
intention.
Mrs. Charles Todd, of Wayville, and
her sister-in-law, Lorna Todd, who fre-
quently take trips to England and back,
have just returned after an absence of 12
months. They were the guests of Sir
William Bragg, their brother-in-law, who
was a professor at the Adelaide Univer-
sity.
TASMANIA.
The Governor and Lady Clark enter-
tained about 400 guests at the ball at Gov-
ernment House, not such a crush as usual.
The hostess was in all-black georgette
and lace. Sixteen debs, made their bob,
looking fresh as daisies in their snowy
frocks. They were Pat Brettingham-
Moore, June Wilson, Shirley Maclean,
Joan Davis, Patricia Best, June Mullen,
Mary Crozier, Diana Freeman, Keir
Chisholm, Barbara Fooks, Margaret For-
syth, Andrea Stokes, Dorothy Gray,
Nathalie Little, Beryl Walker and Betty
Donelly. The night was fine and warm,
and the grounds looked lovely. Naval
uniforms added color to the scene.
A committee of matrons and maidens,
with Mrs. S. H. Findlay as treasurer,
and Mrs. F. X. de Bavay and
Betty Pringle as joint secs., ran a highly
successful dance at the Continental.
Dressing was chic, and the massed deco-
rations of dahlias and gladioli in every
shade made the rooms a blaze of color.
Hostesses wore little triangular badges.
The captains and officers of the Austra-
lian warships and the Louisville were
among the guests.
The Hobart Rep. Soc. has given its
first 100 per cent, local show. The play,
“Rain on Our Lips,” was written by a
member, H. B. Richard, produced by a
Hobart resident and acted by a local
cast. For the first time on record the
call of “Author” sounded in the Theatre
Royal. The play is a bright, witty
comedy, the dialogue sparkling and up
to date, though the thread on which it is
all strung is dangerously thin. His Ex.
and Lady Clark attended the last per-
formance of the three-night season.
The Arndell Lewises’ dance at their
home, Abernaut House, was one of the
best-run functions of the season. About
120 guests enjoyed the dancing. The
garden was hung with fairy lights and
lanterns, and two fountains were in play.
Luckily the night was warm and fine.
The hostess’s pale-pink tulle frock had
a slight train, and a glittering halo orna-
ment on her head was very becoming.
The Don Von Bibras*, Beaufront, Ross,
have started on a trip to England. Before
leaving, the Henry Reeds, Mt. Pleasant,
Launceston, threw a farewell party for
them, when about 80 of their friends
took the opportunity to wish them good
travelling.
Mary Watchorn, elder of the Erskine
Watchorn girls, Lower Sandy Bay, and
Gordon Gray, Malvern (Vic.), were the
principals in a very pretty wedding at St.
David’s Cathedral. Autumn flowers were
used in the decorations. The wedding
garment of deep cream georgette was
worn with a lace veil which had been
worn by the bride’s great-great-grand-
mother and was 150 years old. ’Maids
were Avenel Gray (’groom’s sister), Mar-
garet Watchorn (bride’s sister), Helen
Crisp, Esther Fysh, Diana Thompson,
Pat Rex and Una James, ail in jade-green
georgette frocks, closely moulded and
worn with wreaths of cream begonias.
Festivities followed at the Imperial Hotel.
Molly Nettlefold came down the aisle
of St. David’s Cathedral as Mrs. Eric
Gray wearing an old-style frock of ice-
blue and silver lam£ with a design of
tiny violets in it. A row of tiny buttons
fastened the tight little bodice, and the
skirt was very full. The sleeves were
short and puffed. Two little blue birds
were perched on her head, holding in
place the short blue tulle veil. Mrs. Len
Nettlefold, matron of honor, and two
’maids, Gwen Fitzgerald and Anne
Paton, attended in frocks of pale-pink
net, sunray-pleated, with double velvet
ribbon waistbands in a darker shade of
pink and little close caps of the- same
color. Mr. and Mrs. Nettlefold wel-
comed about 130 guests at Hadley’s after-
wards.
Alys Jones’s display of needlework,
held at her sister’s (Mrs. Sampson’s) home
iu Davey-street, was a revelation of what
a needle can do in an artist’s fingers.
Proceeds went to the Child’s Welfare
Association and the Hospital Auxiliary.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL .. £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
vxc
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
ANAEMIA
p
V
DEBILITY
WEAKNESS
MALNUTRITION
NERVES
If you feel listless, tired and depressed and find
your daily task a burden, you may be one of the
thousands of women who suffer from Anaemia with-
out knowing it. Anaemia is not an ailment that
gives drastic warning symptoms. It develops slowly
and insidiously and unless proper measures are
taken, will surely sow the seeds of ill-health m
later life. Start to-day to restore your lost energy and
joy of living by taking ROBOLEINE, the most
wonderful restorative food and blood regenerator in
the world. For ROBOLEINE not only supplies con-
centrated nourishment to the starved nerves and
tissues, but it contains Red and White Bone
Marrow, the richest blood-forming elements known
to science. Even after a few doses the red
corpuscles increase at an astonishing rate, the
appetite improves, the digestion becomes stronger
and soon all the distressing symptoms of weak- 1
ness, lassitude, palpitation of the heart, faintness,
giddiness and shortness of breath disappear like
magic. There is no tonic under the sun which will
rehabilitate the impoverished blood and restore
your health and vitality so effectively in so short
a time at so small a cost as ROBOLEINE.
The Governor of the largest English Hospital said,
“The effect, of Roboleine on Anaemic Children has
been magical.”
In 60z., 12oz. and 360 z. glass jars.
msm
(Made in England)
The best blood-making
and health-restoring food
Stteet
- Sol
«. Hell 1
C
■gent
ten* “
stainP s ,
°,uvi boo
lA*
3 Vdet
PtS- ~
f enclose
VoboVejf
.pftcvencS-
with
Qd. 111
togethet
; VencS
inU>le
Deft®
iron
jjom®
sS -
5.8.17
The Long White Cloud
“Dhas”: No one, after seeing the
newsreel of Von Luckner in Maoriland,
now showing at Sydney theatres, could
possibly suspect him of harboring the
sinister missionary designs he was
credited with. He looks as frank as the
day, and is obviously having a whale of
a good time revisiting his old haunts.
His naive enthusiasm before the camera
had Sydneysiders chuckling sympatheti-
cally, which is a tribute to the camera-
man as well as the Count. There should
be a good newsreel to come from his
recent visit to Motuhihi Island, where
he was imprisoned during the war. On
the walls of his old room he wrote: “My
old room, which I entered again after 19
years.”
* * * *
“Tham”: Lack of good building stone
and the absence of any settled tradition
have, it is true, handicapped Maoriland
architecture (B. 9/3/’38), but the new
Napier, rebuilt after the ’quake, shows
that, there are men about who can do a
fine job. The clean, colorful, low build-
ings, done mainly in a sturdier version
of the “Spanish mission” style, give a
sense of light and freedom recalling the
best-built quarters of Paris, and there’s
a complete lack of the gargoyles that
annoyed “Dhas,” the reason being that
in a ’quake gargoyles fall off and bite
people in the street. The only other
Fernland town with a harmonious archi-
tecture is Christchurch, where the Can-
terbury pioneers put up some really fine
Gothic. They were so keen on building
a new England that they actually
erected a school with the classrooms
facing south for the sun.
•i* $
“MacHoots”: Amateur medical
science in M.L. has a way of break-
ing into the news with startling and
faintly comical discoveries. The
latest effort comes from Foxton,
where employees at a woolpack and
textile factory declare that goitre
in that salubrious air fades away
and dies. Not so long ago a farmer
inspired a newspaper splash by claim-
ing to have discovered the origin of
infantile paralysis. He said it was
allied to distemper in dogs and sprang i
from some evil influence emanated by
perennial rye grass. Maoris aver that a
decoction from the herb kumarahou,
which tastes like seaweed, cures chest
complaints, but in one case where I saw
it thoroughly tried out it seemed only to
act as a mild tonic. And, incidentally,
I once saw a gentleman at Porirua bend
down and lap up sea water.
$ •!'
“S'.”: M.L.’s 40-hour week is blamed
by Bishop Bennett for an increase of
waipiro-swallowing by the Maoris, who,
like the pakeha, are tempted to spend
their increased leisure in the pubs instead
of daintily poi-dancing as the Labor
visionaries hoped. High wages and the
splashing of Government money among
the natives are probably more to blame
than the shorter working week, how-
ever. Money is no good to a type of
Maori; as soon as he gets it he has to go
on a spree of some kind, and, if the pub-
lican doesn’t get in first, car salesmen
score. I’ve seen Maoris on the half-
yearly rent-day collect up to £200 and,
throw the lot away by nightfall.
“Goss”: A paradox of the last M.L.
election was that many conservative
voters helped Labor into power by re-
fusing to vote for the Coates-Forbes
see-saw because it had swung too far
towards socialism. Those Onekaka iron
deposits which Labor has taken over (B.
9/3/’3B) are a case in point. Coates an-
nounced in 1935 that the Unemployment
Board had been negotiating with the
company holding the Onekaka rights,
and, though nothing came of it then, there
was every chance of Onekaka becoming
a State or semi-State enterprise. The
“new” Nationalists, who are the old
Nationalists • under a new leader, must
find criticism pretty awkward at times,
even if they have repented.
* * * *
“Trol”: Though the Treaty of Wai-
tangi (B. 9/3/’3B) sealed the Maoris’ loss
of M.L. as a whole, it reserved pretty
generous areas to the natives, and an at-
tempt by Labor to deprive them of the
mineral rights, which the Nationalists
say were protected by the Treaty, is caus-
“Gimme the No. 2 axe, caddie .”
ing a Parliamentary Donnybrook. Before
it established the recent State monopoly
of iron and steel deposits, Labor collared
oil for the State, and one highly con-
tentious clause of last year’s Petroleum
Bill, providing for the payment of
petroleum royalties to the Crown and for
compensation to the landowner for sur-
face damage only, is now being debated
jin accordance with a Government
promise to the Nats. Opposition-leader
Hamilton, who put the case both for
Maori and pakeha property-owners,
moved for the apportionment of royal-
ties fifty-fifty between the Crown and
the landowners, but Labor’s thumping
majority gave him no chance.
* * * *
“M’Lud”: Magistrate J. H. Luxford,
whose wit and wisdom add considerably
to the pleasure of court reporting at
Wellington, is influencing the interpreta-
tion of liquor laws in more direct ways
than by his book on the subject (B.
9/37’38). In two recent cases he pounced
on the police practice of waylaying all
and sundry about a hotel after hours,
holding that if every person coming out
of a hotel at night is required to give an
explanation to the police it is “a very
serious matter.” The police usually exer-
cise some discrimination, but there have
been too many instances of legitimate
guests being swooped on the moment
they happen to wander out into the street.
Even Mr. Luxford, though, couldn’t have
done anything to prevent the undignified
scene that once occurred in a Taranaki
pub when six grown men, fleeing from
a raid, were trapped in the kitchen
because a plump comrade had got stuck
in the window.
* $ # *
“Koura”: M.L. is not likely to quarrel
with the temporary shelving of the super-
annuation and health-insurance pro-
posals (B. 9/3/’3B), especially as the
P.M. has promised the legislation before
the elections. So many interests are in-
volved, and the cost will be so great,
that thorough investigation is necessary ;
and the setting up of a committee at
which interested parties can give evidence,
and which will be open to the press, is
proposed.
* * * *
“Tuna”: Having forked out three bob
the other day for the pleasure of forking
into a sole masquerading as a Maoriland
flounder, I learn with pleasure that Syd-
ney may shortly be swimming with M.L.
fish. Not long ago the Australian
trawler Alfie Cam was refused permis-
sion to fish in M.L. waters. A Wellington
firm has before the Bureau of Industry
a scheme to export fish to Australia. It
reckons on Sydney jaws dodging the bones
of 200 cases a month, and proposes to
waylay blue cod and groper in the Cook
Strait and French Pass grounds to satisfy
the demand. It should be a good thing
for the 70-odd Wellington fishermen who
at present are forced on to relief work
in the summer months, but it really
seems astonishing that Australia can’t
feed itself on Fridays.
* * * *
“Miss Smith”: Australia may have
half-naked workmen like those who
moved the Mosman Women’s Civic
Group to demand that they be shirted,
but on the other side of the Tasman
there are really horrible goings-on. In
the Blue Baths at Rotorua, males are
permitted to perform their ablutions en-
tirely devoid of proper attire, and now
the Government has granted £100 to
provide music for the clientele. Though
they are screened from the public gaze,
my imagination shrinks appalled from the
picture of large nude bathers feebly
waving their hands to the rhythms of
“The Blue Danube” or the ubiquitous
bleatings of the crooner.
* * *
“R. Wort”: That South African who
was not allowed by the authorities to
take a couple of black swans out of Aus-
tralia might have picked up a pair
cheaply if he had cabled his wants to
Maoriland. Two, originally white, in the
Wellington Botanical Gardens managed
to get coated with a scum of tar which
storm-water had washed into their pond,
and the experts didn’t give tuppence for
their chances of survival. In their
attempts to clean themselves, the birds
smeared the tar over their eyes and nos-
trils. Zoo people sponged them with
petrol, and, though at the moment Annie
Laurie wouldn’t be flattered at being
compared with them, the patients are pro-
gressing.
SF * * *
“Stoo”: Maori decoration would cer-
tainly enliven M.L. public buildings (B.
V 9 / 3 / ’38) if the Maori memorial erected
\ in one North Island borough is any
\ criterion. Commemorating the land-
1 ing of Turi, a sort of local Pilgrim
Father, the work consists of a large
concrete canoe, looking rather like a
washtub, perched high in the air
and tenanted by a number of ex-
tremely dead native gentlemen in
*•— wood and concrete. On the face of
the slab, painted a cheery blue to
represent the sea, on which the
/ canoe rests, swims a concrete fish,
I very small and lonely and symbolic.
/ The dreadful fate of a brother scribe,
I who has since fled to Australia, keeps
me from mentioning the name of the
town where the treasure reposes. On
the occasion of a jubilee he wrote up
the dilapidated buildings, the mudflats
and the local odors from a romantic
angle, and the Borough Council, which
preferred to gaze upon the town clock
and the new bungalows, raised an official
hell that called for apologies all round.


*rf/M
l-N-SS^s.-
i,
mm
/,
T-.U/s
a
AUDIOSCOPIC
REPRODUCTION
IT'S an exclusive Philips
feature, found only in Philips
.Radioplayers, and developed
in the world-famous Philips
laboratories. Why not hear
Audioscopic Reproduction
in your own home?
PHILIPS
mtm
SOLD ONLY BY PHILIPS
ACCREDITED RETAILERS
Fill in this coupon and post to
PHILIPS RADIO, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE.
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE or PERTH
Please arrange free demonstration of
a Philips Radioplayer.
Name
Address
ALSO SEND 8-PAGE STATION BOOK
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
Serving ALL of
WESTRALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
The BRIGGS & STRATTON
POWER-CHARGER
A small four-cycle, single-cylinder, air-
cooled Petrol Engine directly-coupled to
an Electric Generator having an output of
6 volts 16A amps.
M
A boon to country owners of battery-
operated Radio Receivers. Solves for all
time your radio and car battery charging
problem.
• Will provide sufficient Power to light
four 25-watt Lamps.
• Can be used as a general utility Petrol
Motor.
A quality product at the amazingly low
price of £2l/10/-.
AMPLION (A/SIA) PTY. LTD.
66 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
DON B . KNOCK'S PAGES.
Serviceman's Three-range
Valve Voltmeter.
The valve voltmeter is a measuring in-
strument capable of many applications
in connection with radio receivers, and a
design by Philips engineers is of particu-
lar interest to the radio serviceman.
It embodies a 0-2 milliammeter as an
indicator, and is capable of providing
sufficient precision for most practical pur-
poses. To be effective the valve volt-
meter must provide convenient measur-
Fig. 1.—Circuit of the three-range V.T. voltmeter.
ing ranges, such as 0-5, 0-15 and 0-50
volts, and avoid damping the circuit
under measurement (grid current in the
valve voltmeter is therefore not permis-
sible). The maximum ma. current for
the maximum measured voltage in each
range must be approximately 2ma.; and
the minimum current for zero-measured
voltage in each range should be practi-
cally zero. Milliampere current should
not cut-off before the voltage across the
input terminals reaches zero.
The circuit diagram for the instru-
ment, which is entirely A.C. operated,
shows an AF7 R.F. -pentode connected
as a triode and operating as anode bend
detector. The grid is biased negatively
by the cathode tap on the resistor R 5.
The voltage divider has a comparatively
low resistance, so that the bias remains
substantially constant when the plate cur-
rent of the valve increases. For this par-
ticular circuit a negative bias of 13 volts
is just sufficient to cut off the plate cur-
rent, and for the 0-5-volt range the valve
is thus adjusted to the most favorable part
of the curve. An input of five volts will
produce a milliammeter reading of 2ma.
For measurement of higher poten-
tials, the range of the milliammeter
would be exceeded and grid current
would flow. Thus, to permit the measure-
ment of 50 volts and still limit the milli-
ammeter current to 2ma. the bias must
be increased to at least 70 volts. Fixed
bias is not altogether suitable, as only
the higher input voltages would produce
plate current. In order to avoid this
difficulty, automatic bias is used. There-
fore a switching arrangement has been
used to incorporate bias resistors in the
cathode circuit for the two higher volt-
age ran ges. Resistance R 2 is used for
the 0-50-volt position and R 3 for the
0-15-volt range. For a no-signal con-
dition the fixed bias of 13 volts across
R 5 reduces the plate current to practi-
cally zero, and no potential drop occurs
across the cathode resistor in circuit,
As the measured voltage increases,
however, the grid
is driven less nega-
tive and plate cur-
rent flows. The in-
creasing plate cur-
rent produces an
increasing voltage
across the cathode
resistor, and a
measure of com-
pensation is
effected. Thus for
the 0-15- and 0-50-
volt ranges suffi-
cie n t additional
bias is produced to
limit the milli-
ammeter current to
2ma. for maxi-
mum deflection in both ranges. To
obtain a suitable operating characteris-
tic the potential on the plate and screen
is in excess of normal ratings. As the
plate current is limited to 2ma. the use
of high plate voltage is permissible.
Filter Circuit and Applications.
The high-tension supply for the AFT
is filtered by two 16mfd. electrolytic con-
densers and a resistance R 7 of 10,000
ohms. This resistance renders a choke
coil unnecessary and also serves to pro-
tect the meter by current limitation.
For example, when the grid circuit
switch is in position 1 the grid of the
valve will be isolated from the bias
voltage if the circuit under test is
disconnected. In these circumstances
the resistance R 7 will tend to limit
the current passing through the mil-
liammeter. Another advantage of R 7
is that it permits the use of any 0-2
milliammeter, since the internal resistance
of the meter will be small compared with
10,000 ohms. A capacity of lmfd. is con-
nected from plate to cathode so that when
measuring high frequencies the meter
will not cause a voltage drop. This con-
denser should be of a non-inductive type.
In the 0-15- and 0-50-volt ranges the
valve voltmeter is practically independent
cf mains voltage fluctuations. If the
mains voltage increases, the plate voltage
will rise accordingly, and the plate cur-
rent will also tend to in-
crease. The higher plate
current will produce a
greater drop across the
cathode bias resistor and the
plate current will readjust
itself to approximately the
original value. In the 0-5-
volt range the position is
different, as this range does
not include a cathode re-
sistor. A variation of 10
p.c. in the mains voltage
corresponds to an error of
approximately 8 p.c. in the
reading of the milliammeter.
It will therefore be neces-
sary to adhere to the mains
voltage applied for calibra-
tion on the 0-5-volt range
if accurate results are ex-
pected.
When using this voltmeter with the
grid switch in position 1, care should be
taken to ensure a conductive connection
across the input terminals as otherwise
the grid will not receive negative bias.
For this reason the grid switch should be
changed to position 2 when disconnect-
ing input leads, so that the bias is applied
to the grid by means of the three-megohm
resistance which is included to provide a
grid return when measuring voltage via
a condenser.
Although this is not an instrument of
great precision it is of considerable prac-
Fig. 2. —Circuit arrangement for measuring receiver output
with the V.T. voltmeter.
tical value, as the majority of measure-
ments are made for comparative read-
ings. It can be used for measuring A.C.
or D.C. potentials, and separate calibra-
tions are necessary for each service. A.C.
voltage calibrations can be made by con-
necting an A.C. voltmeter in parallel with
the input terminals to indicate the applied
voltage. The A.C. applied to the valve
voltmeter should be variable to enable a
series of readings to be taken for each
range. Generally, 50-cycle mains will be
used for calibration purposes, and the
supply should be reasonably free from
harmonics. If this is not the case the
calibration voltage should be applied
through a 50-cycle filler circuit. A filter
system comprising the condenser Cl and
resistance R 1 isolates D.C. potentials
when the instrument is used to measure
A.C. voltages in circuits also carrying
direct current, as when measuring the
A.C. voltage on the plate of a valve.
Insulation of Cl is important, and this
should be of a high order.
Calibration for D.C. applications is
done by applying a source of variable
D.C. voltage to the input and checking
the applied voltage on a moving coil
voltmeter. Positive side of the voltage
to be measured is connected to the grid
side of the input terminals.
The valve voltmeter is also useful as
an output meter when checking receivers.
A special coupling circuit is necessary,
and a practical arrangement is shown in
Fig. 2. Resistance R should have a value
corresponding to the recommended load
resistance of the power valve. For the
majority of pentode valves a resistance of
7000 ohms is satisfactory. Condensers
C should have a capacity of at least
4mfd., each thus ensuring a low imped-
ance to audio frequencies compared with
7000 ohms. Inductance of the audio
choke should be as high as practicable,
since the A.C. output of the valve is
divided between the choke and resistor.
An output of 50mw. corresponds to
18.7 volts measured across the 7000-ohm
resistor.
P. R.
Better T.R.F. Selectivity.
The gadget shown in the diagram,
easily knocked together, can be most
valuable for sharpening up the tun-
ing of many types of tuned R.F.
broadcast band receivers. In effect,
it is a variation of our well-tried
friend the wavetrap, and calls for
these components: One .0005mfd. vari-
able condenser with vernier dial, one
,0003mfd. variable condenser with short-
ing switch, a coil consisting of 100 turns
of 28 enamelled copper wire on a 2in.
diameter former, with tappings at every
20 turns. Instead of using a shorting
switch with the .0003mfd. variable con-
denser, a rotor plate can be bent at the
edge so that when the condenser is
meshed at full capacity it shorts itself
out.
Method of application is simple. The
unit is connected in series with the aerial,
before the aerial terminal of the receiver,
and the aerial connected to one of the
three taps marked Al, A 2 and A 3. Which
is more suitable of A 2 and A 3 must be
determined by trial. Taps Tl, T 2 and
T 3 are tried similarly. If a station is
received without any interference nor-
mally, the aerial plug can be left in posi-
tion Al and condenser C 2 shorted out
of circuit. The unit is then not function-
ing at all. Where interference is experi-
enced between stations, the condenser
C 2 is put into circuit, the aerial tried on
A 2 or A 3 and the variable condenser Cl
rotated by means of the vernier dial until
the interference is minimised.
Condenser C 2 needs no vernier dial;
a plain knob will do here. Slight re-
adjustment of C 2 and the receiver con-
trols may be necessary to obtain the best
results. It can be built up on a base-
board with a panel, or screened in a
metal box. If the latter construction is
used, the metal box should be earthed.
D. B. K.


Somebody's buying
a Belter Radio now /
Milliard
MASTER RADIO
- Pricvs frnu, HJ ti) K.
"RADIO DIGEST”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of "RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but “RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most important radio
publications.
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
from the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
For Radio Constructors.
A limited number of issues of “Aus-
tralian Radio News” (formerly published
by The Bulletin) is available at The
Bulletin Office.
1933 and 1934 issues contain a large
amount of useful short-wave and broad-
cast constructional articles.
Get a Sample Copy Now.
3d. each, including postage.
Nobody blames their shoe
when the sole wears through,
so why blame your radio
when the valves wear out—
just . . .
B fVfIIVE W| T „
RADIO VALVES
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (jjjjp (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRIC
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
& ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. all-
waver, described B. 28/4/’37; location,
Richmond, Queensland.
Morning reception is now excellent on
all bands. On 19 metres, W2XAD, GSO,
WBXK, DJL and DJQ are all good. At
9 a.m. GSO closes and is still at nice
volume, but DJQ is then stronger and
putting up a good performance. W2XAD
and WBXK are well audible at 10 a.m.,
at which time DJQ is weak and there is
no sign of a Daventry station.
On 25 metres, TPA3, DJD and GSD
are the best stations. At 10 a.m. TPA4
or TPA3 is very good on the lower
wave-lengths, the most effective appear-
ing to be 25.2 metres.
GSB is very fine on 31 metres; also
CSW and WIXK. KZRM is very strong,
but 2RO difficult to hold. The station
announcing “Radio Salamanca” has been
heard again around 29 metres, closing
at 7.5 a.m.
On 49 metres Moscow, Pretoria,
Praha, Berlin, London, Cape Town and
many others come in well. OLR2A is
how above DJC, probably being back on
49.92 instead of 49.75 metres, and with
ZRH makes a fine pair. GSA closes
between 7 a.m. and 7.15 a.m., and is
good copy all the time.
A very strong station about 49.6 metres
closes at 7 a.m. with a clock striking
12, followed by the “International.” An-
other good station is to be found on
about 49.4 metres, and there are also
lesser lights. During the afternoons I
have found DJE, DJB and DJQ as early
as 4 p.m. By 4.30 p.m. they are good,
and at 5 p.m. very strong. TPA3 comes
on at 5.15 p.m. and closes at 6.15 p.m.
At 6 p.m. a Frenchman has been noted
on the 19-metre band, just above GSF’s
frequency; so close that very careful
tuning is needed for separation. Only
French is spoken, and the callsign has
not yet been identified. He is audible
until 7.30 p.m. at good strength, but not
equal to Daventry. GSO opens well, as
do GSD and GSB ; but all the 16-metre
stations have weakened considerably ex-
cepting GSF. At 8.45 p.m. GSJ is the
best Daventry station, but the two 19-
metre stations soon improve in strength
and are at full volume by 9.30 p.m.
The German stations now put on an
excellent session from 4.30 p.m., with
news at 5 p.m. in English, followed by a
variety of good items. On 15/2/’3B PCJ
was very good on opening, but, like all
the other 19-metre stations, weakened
speedily. The 31-metre stations are all
very good but there is too much static
as a rule to enjoy the 49-metre stations.
The amateurs on 20 metres have
attracted attention again, and some strong
overseas ’phones were heard. There
were plenty of Americans, mostly 6th
district, two Englishmen, one Canadian,
one Argentinian, one Chinese, one
Burmese and a Chilean lady whom I
often hear (CEIAH, Mrs. Fysh). Others
heard included one Dominican, one
Frenchman and a Dutchman.
On 19/2/’3B W2XE on 25 metres was
exceptionally good at 7.45 a.m. This day
I got W2XAD in his news session at
9.35 a.m. WBXK was about equal
volume with DJQ about the same, but
the latter was much weaker than at
9 a.m. At 5.30 p.m. the unknown French-
man on 19.8 metres was audible at very
good volume, and stronger than TPA3,
which could be heard on 25 metres at
the same time. Night performance of
the 16- and 19-metre bands has improved,
and after midnight GSD opens with a
very powerful signal. GSH is also better
than in Transmission 2.
Besides the excellent performance of
this T.R.F. receiver on short-wave broad-
casters, it is ideal for reception of ama-
teurs. A superhet on test here misses
too many, and the 19-metre stations
show double-spotting near the high-fre-
quency end of the amateur 20-metre
band. The two English amateurs I hear
appear to be old favorites with VKs,
and a station in the Blue Mountains of
N.S.W., VK2XU, puts over a very fine
signal, as does VK2GU in Canberra on
10 metres.
Further comparisons of this receiver
with the superhet may be of interest.
Often a station will be received with the
T.R.F. at weak speaker volume when the
superhet is dumb, but when the station
has some kick in it the super roars.
Superhets must have a fair short-
wave signal or they are of little use up
here. If they could only pick up the
signal, the amplification is there all right,
but then again they have more back-
ground noise than the T.R.F.
K. B. G.
[The difference noted between the
superhet and the tuned R.F. receiver is
due to lack of R.F. amplification in the
superhet. Many dual-wave superhets
use first-detector input on the short waves
and broadcast, but some have R.F. ampli-
fication ahead of the first detector
throughout. Those with pre-R.F. ampli-
fication would undoubtedly make a
better showing, but a correctly-designed
tuned R.F. receiver still holds its own as
a trouble-free, silent-background re-
ceiver.—D. B. K.]
Amateur Chatter.
The W.I.A. is on the eve of its most
important convention, which will be held
in Sydney during the World Radio Con-
vention organised by the I.R.E. in con-
nection with the sesqui. celebrations. This
W.I.A. convention will be the first at
which there will be no proxies, delegates
from every district being in attendance.
From M.L. comes L. G. Petrie, ZL2OV,
president of N.Z.A.R.T. The agenda
paper carries about 55 items, and
the problem confronting the Federal
executive is how to get through these
in the allotted time. W.I.A. con-
ventions are becoming increasingly
important in the affairs of the VK,
and every key-puncher or mike-man who
cherishes amateur radio in Australia
should rally to the W.I.A. and give the
utmost support.
N.S.W. Division is unfortunate to lose
the services of hon. sec. W. G. Ryan,
VK2TI, who is retiring owing to pres-
sure of business. VK2TI has been one
of the best secretaries in the history of
the Division.
Jack Scott, ex-VK2NR, is reported
back in VK2 after three years in Eng-
land, during which period he gained
much experience in the design and in-
stallation of high-power commercial sta-
tions in several Continental countries.
Whilst in England he signed G6JB.
Current issue of “QST” (U.S.A.) an-
nounces the appointment of ex-Austra-
lian Ross Hull to the editorship, K. B.
Warner now devoting his time to
A.R.R.L. secretarial duties.
The idea of “rights” on the 20-metre
band becomes amusing when a VK2
’phone exponent protests that another
station is using “his” frequency, and asks
for the removal of the “offending” sta-
tion. An amateur Utopia in which indi-
vidual frequencies are allotted as sacred
’phone ground is a wild dream that fades
with the advent of the first key-puncher
with a similar crystal. Amateur radio
privileges exist for all, and not for a
favored few. In Australia experimental
investigation is given first importance,
and not DX communication, especially
by ’phone, alone.
A California press message read
that “30,000 square miles of Southern
California” was isolated, the only means
of communication being by short-wave
radio.” It is for such emergencies as this
, that the A.R.R.L. Radio Emergency
: Corps was formed. Through it ama-
: teur stations are available at a moment’s
i notice to provide a network over the
whole continent. These stations are
emergency stations in the true sense, as
they do not depend upon the regular
sources of power-supply, but operate from
batteries, petrol-engine generators, and,
in some instances, hand or pedal genera-
tors. Amateur radio could be made far
more useful in Australia than it is at
present by the formation of an emer-
gency network on similar lines. Such an
organisation should appeal to both C.W.
and ’phone men, for there is room for
both in communication emergencies,
although telegraphy is the speediest. Only
scheme now in action in VK is the
R.A.A.F. wireless reserve. An R.E.C.
similar to those of U.S.A. and M.L.
would be purely civilian in character and
amateur in administration. It is worth
the consideration of the W.I.A.
It is interesting to compare the be-
havior of the 40- and 20-metre amateur
bands over a period of years. Twenty
has all the characteristics of 40 about six
years ago, showing the most DX, but,
even so, 40 is by no means lacking in this
respect. Daybreak European signals as
received in Eastern Australia show that
just now 20 is completely dead until the
sun gets well over the horizon, whereas
many Europeans can be heard at good
strength on 40 from around 5 a.m. By
7 a.m., however, signal strength is at a
peak on 20, but has waned considerably
on 40. Forty metres will always be a
very useful channel, but it is to be hoped
that something is being done at Cairo
about the dozens of commercial stations,
to say nothing of Spanish war stations
which make use of the supposedly amateur
territory despite international agreements.
Much activity is reported from VKS
and VK3 on 56mc., but such is far from
the case in VK2. The regulars are in
action around Sydney, but no new sta-
tions have yet put in an appearance. The
tests with U.S.A. were entirely non-pro-
ductive of results, but this is no reason
for discouragement. As with 10 metres,
once DX is opened up on five metres
from Australia, the band will attract
many, but DX is not the only objective
on this band, and it is the finest medium
for local working up to 100 miles or
more that is available. The remarkable
thing is that so few realise this. The
writer has been making aerial tests on
20 metres, replacing a V array used for
several months by a Jones single-wire-
feed multiband aerial. Such a system
had been used previously for ’phone
work with U.S.A. and England, and, as
before, it proved to be an excellent all-
round system. For better communication
up to distances of 1000 miles, a 67ft.
counterpoise was erected so that the
aerial could be used against ground as
a Marconi when desired. When work-
ing with inter-State stations addition of
the counterpoise showed an increase of
two Rs in the signal in all directions, but
the presence of the counterpoise made
no difference when tested with stations in
Honolulu and New York. An advantage
is that such a combination can be used
for the lower frequencies, taking in the
160- and 80-metre bands if desired.
VK2NO.
What's What in Radio.
Two ’further high-power short-wave
transmitters are to be added to the
Empire stations at Daventry in connec-
tion with the foreign-language broad-
casts.
* * * *
The seven-metre television transmis-
sions from the Alexandra Palace in Lon-
don were recently heard clearly in Delhi
(India) at a time when the entire path
between sending and receiving stations
was in daylight.
* * * *
Good television reception of the Lon-
don programmes is reported from Soli-
hull, Warwickshire, 100 miles away, and
successful reception has also been had at
the Mostyn works of the Ferranti Co.,
200 miles from London.
H*
Control of Stromberg-Carlson (Aus-
tralasia) has now passed from American
to Australian interests, with the Ameri-
can co. retaining only a minority in-
terest, though the Australian co. will
have the use of all patents and technical
services. There will be no alteration in
the management, L. P. R. Bean being
chairman and managing director.
The Question Box.
Can yau give details of a receiving aerial to
minimise the noise of passing motor-cars ?
Ignition interference is very severe on short
waves.— 64B.
The diagram shows a simple noise-reduction
receiving aerial. It is in the form of a doublet,
with transposed feeder line to the receiver.
Suitable length for each half of the flat-top is
25ft., and the transposed feeder can be any
convenient length. The scheme illustrated shows
a tuned aerial coupling coil. This is not im-
perative, and the variable condenser can be
dispensed with, using an untuned coil. If the
receiver is of commercial make and has ter-
minals marked “doublet,” this coil is already
provided, and all that is necessary is to connect
the transposed feeders to the terminals. Trans-
position blocks can be obtained at most radio
stores. The aerial should be erected as far
away from the roadway as possible, and at
right-angles to overhead power cables.
❖ Sfc $
(1) 1 have a crystal set consisting of two coils,
one sliding inside the other. The outside coil
is s in. diameter, with about 200 turns of wire.
The earth is connected to one end and the aerial
to a sliding bar running the length of the coil.
The inside or sliding coil is 3 in. diameter,
with one end connected to the crystal and the
other through tappings to the headphones.
Fair results are obtained with this receiver, but
1 cannot separate stations. How can this be
remedied? (2) Enclosed is a piece of copper
wire. What gauge is this? (3) Would this
gauze be suitable for the coils of a crystal set?
—646.
(1) Very little can be done to effect improve-
ment. A crystal set is notoriously broad in
tuning, though there are trick arrangements
whereby a fair degree of selectivity is obtained,
at the expense of signal strength. Your set
is already what is known as a “loose-coupler,”
and should be more selective than the simple
directly-coupled set. (2) 30-gauge plain copper.
(3) No, nothing smaller than 26 gauge should
be used.
* * * *
(1) Is the Philips 506 rectifier the equivalent
of the 80 ? (2) What are the respective plate
and filament voltages? (3) Which are the cor-
rect connections to the four pins on the base,
English pattern ? —647.
(1) No. (2) Four-volt filament and 200 volts
on the plate. (3) The staggered pin is one
plate connection and the other plate connection
is the pin immediately opposite this. The other
two are the filament connections.


WmmWM
m
».
||i|;j|ii||;|iip|pg
* \' / ski
lIIIIII*
¥?:¥
wzwmm&fmsm
mmmmmm
:
P ■
KM 1 I
sszl< y.; : » ";•¥'.
\,\s » ,\' ' '
-V
38SSSSS
S*
¥>:¥:¥
¥¥•*¥*¥*<
SSS¥i'¥
msmsm
m
.
m
HI
Hi*
»»x***^
w ■
mum
. 1
1 1lZ„
waissmm
m -
MORE MILES... and BETTER MILES
Drive the performance champion of two continents
... Hudson Terraplane ... the car that was first in
the famous 2732 mile Nairobi-Rand South African
Road Race . . . that has just crossed the American
continent, 3192 miles, in 52 hours ... a new record!
No car has yet duplicated this ability to “take it”
mile after mile, at top speed. Yet you get this
performance and built-in long life in a car that is
bigger and roomier than any in its price class, a
car that has beaten competing cars again and again
in economy tests.
Come in.. . drive Hudson Terraplane, Hudson Six
or Hudson Eight. See how much more your
money buys here!
IN
style
Pe ßform
ANce
life
ZW HUDSON
HUDSON Terrafilane HUDSON Six HUDSON Eight
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
McINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
(Also 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide)
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
1016 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Brisbane Street,
HOBART LAUNCESTON
2X-NI-60.
IT’S “VALUE YEAR” IN HUDSON SHOWROOMS


a
FOR RHEUMATISM, NEURITIS , ETC.
KEEP
OfitVcnifo
00e*....
'J'ake Golcryst regu-
larly to ensure vig-
orous health. These
golden crystals of
health are pleasant
to take and tone up
the whole system.
THE PERFECT MORNING SALTS
ALL CHEMISTS 4* . 8* . ft .
Bringing on Young Stock.
“Tri-cal”: Those yearlings that took
your fancy have been getting Tri-cal-os
Bone Flour since they were 6 weeks old.
They have been on agistment—and you
must admit my pasture is good—but I
thought a calcium phosphate supplement
should be useful and so put a trough
of Tri-cal-os 40, salt 60 beside one of
grain. Well, the youngsters always went
straight to the Tri-cal-os first. That con-
vinced me that the pasture wasn’t good
enough. Now I’m proud of those little
chaps—l think they are in better con-
dition than yours, and I know Tri-cal-os
is responsible. Goodness, it’s economical
enough, and I’m Scotch, at least on one
side!
y**a£33fc.
ras. a
§
Write to Davis Gelatine (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney,
for details. Old Farmer.
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
►
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Eife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Shed- v. Store-classing.
“C.V.S.”: On large properties shed-
classing is the better, method, because
picking-up, skirting, piece-picking, etc.,
are under a professional classer; and
fleece wool comprises only about 50 p.c.
of the clip.
Shed-classing is also preferable in
smaller sheds, but the difficulty here is to
obtain good classers, though there are
more classers than can be employed
early in the season. As “Murrawong”
says (B. 2/3/’3B), the shearing season is
too short to offer steady employment.
It is regrettable that Australia’s greatest
industry has always been dependent on
“rush” methods.
In the past large sheds offered classers
and other key-position men attractive
pay, thus compensating for the short
season ; but, with the steady diminution
in the size of holdings, such jobs have
been scarce, and there has arisen the
hopelessly overworked jack-of-all-trades.
Under these conditions small clips are
apt to be badly prepared for market. In
such cases it would be better to confine
shed-preparation to skirting and rolling,
other operations to be carried out in the
store.
Present tendency, owing to smaller
flocks, is towards growth of store-class-
ing and -sorting. Stores provide classers
with eight months’ continuous work. If
they could offer full-time jobs, the danger
of indifferent classing would be checked.
The position regarding shearers is
more difficult, though an extension of
the season within climatic limits would
help, and the shearer is usually able to
take on other rural occupations.
Sheep Lice.
“Sheepo”: Several N.S.W. graziers
have been fined for having lousy sheep,
which can be an outcome of careless
dipping. One lousy sheep will infest
a whole flock ; in lice-infested country
every precaution should be taken to get
a clean muster for dipping.
After being deposited in the wool the
eggs hatch in seven days. In another 14
days, the lice are fully developed and
commence to propagate. Short-length
dips give poor results ; to destroy all lice
a long swim in a reliable arsenical mix-
ture is essential. A fortnight later, an-
other dipping is needed to destroy eggs.
In some instances travelling sheep are
lice-infested, and, although stock in-
spectors are on the watch, a lousy mob
sometimes makes contact with clean
sheep. Inspection prior to travelling
sheep entering a property is well worth
while.
Cleansing Foot-rot Country.
“Ghanam”: C.S. and I.R. experiments
in conjunction with Werribee (Vic.) State
Farm suggest that the unstocking of foot-
rot country is a useful measure in wiping
out the disease on damp or irrigated
land.
For two years before the experiments,
the heavy carrying land at Werribee had
had up to 70 p.c. of infection, and the
disease persisted throughout the year.
The sheep were sold, the country was
left ungrazed for a fortnight, and 200
clean sheep were placed in the paddocks
a year ago. They are still clean.
Four times, when taken through yards,
they have been given a footbath.
Where footrot has got a hold there is
only one way to clean it out of a flock.
Sore feet must be pared and treated with
formalin (10 p.c. solution) every three
days. Clean sheep in the flock must be
passed through 5 p.c. formalin footbaths
at similar intervals.
If this is kept up till no more disease
appears, the paddocks should become
free of infection.
Costing and Wool.
“Aerogenes”: Queensland Land Court,
with W. L. Payne as President, has con-
ducted an inquiry into the economics of
the sheep and cattle industries.
The Court expressed optimism, in view
of the general recovery in the trading
“ Travellers ?”
countries of the world, but urged caution,
to avoid incurring fresh burdens of debt
arid to shake off the old ones, which are
heavy.
Graziers’ Associations named 12d. a
pound as the average cost of wool-pro-
duction. The Court , thinks this is too
high an estimate, claiming that the figures
from the various holdings are vague and
undependable.
The Court urges graziers to adopt a
uniform system of bookkeeping—which
is a crying need in every branch of pri-
mary production. A good and simple
system of costing applied to all his ven-
tures by every farmer and grazier would
astonish him with the amount of wasted
energy that would be revealed. Many
methods, religiously practised from
habit or from the fond belief that they
are a “good thing,” are found to be in-
curably unsound. Others could be vastly
improved by a little rearrangement.
Too Many Types.
“B-gar”: Reports from Smithfield in-
dicate that fat-lamb carcasses from Aus-
tralia are too varied in type, ranging
from merinos to heavy crossbreds. The
uniformity and good quality of the few
are offset by the irregularity of the bulk,
causing a restricted demand and lower
prices for anything not up to standard.
Non-culling of breeders is a cause, but
the main trouble is too many breeds of
ewes. In Maoriland, where ofily a few
breeds are used, fat-lamb types are fairly
well standardised.
Australian fat lambs will always lack
uniformity while all sorts of crossbred
ewes are bred from.
Fruit-fly Hints.
“Hortus”: The insects reach their
maximum numbers in late summer and
autumn. They live through winter as
adults. Shelter is found mainly in citrus
trees.
Destroy all fallen and infested fruit by
burning, boiling for 10 minutes or plac-
ing in an insect-proof pit.
Continue trapping or use foliage poison
spray of the latest kinds for four weeks
after harvesting last fruit. k
It’s best to keep on trapping right
through winter. Bait traps with 6 fl. oz.
of a lure made up of one teaspoon of
vanilla essence, one tablespoon of house-
hold ammonia and three breakfastcups
of water.
Place traps in orange, mandarin and
grapefruit, rather than in lemon trees, in
late autumn and winter.
Refill traps about every 14 days in
cool weather. One trap to every eight
trees is a fair minimum.
« L- 1 * L-
Stock L.ic s.
“Corriedale”: Salt should not be given
to sheep in a mineral lick. It must be
given alone. A sheep’s blood is largely
a solution of salt in water, which needs
replenishing for normal good health.
Supplements like dicalcic and dried
blood or correctives such as mag. sulph.
can be put out separately and made
more appetising by being mixed with
molasses, bran, pollard or linseed meal,
according to the quantities needed.
Tanning Furred Skins.
“Kyamba”: Cut off the useless parts
and soften the skin by soaking. Remove
the faulty matter from the inside and
soak skin in warm water for another
hour. Mix equal parts of borax, salt-
petre and Glauber salts (sulphate of
soda) with enough water to make a thin
paste. Spread this with a brush over the
inside of the skin, applying more thickly
to the thicker parts.
Double the skin together, flesh inside,
and place in a cool place for 24 hours.
Then wash clean and brush on a mixture
of loz. of sal. soda, borax and 2oz.
hard white soap. Melt slowly, but do not
allow it to boil.
Fold the skin together again and put
away for 24 hours in a warm place.
Next dissolve 4oz. alum, Boz. salts and
2oz. saleratus in enough hot rainwater
to saturate the skin, which should be
soaked in this for another 24 hours.
Wring out and hang to dry.
Repeat the soaking and drying two or
three times until the skin is soft. Lastly,
smooth the inside with fine sandpaper
and pumice stone.
Mitchell Hay in N.Q.
« Red Wul”: Either “A.S.” (B
19/1 /’3B) is unobservant or graziers have
altered their habits since I worked on
n _ w q s heep stations a few years ago.
Then stations almost invariably stacked
sufficient Mitchell and Flinders hay to
give a small daily ration, augmenting the
standing dry feed to milkers and, per-
haps, the night horse during the last
few dry months of the year.
R was ne cessary to wait until the Mit-
cheli had seeded and the Flinders turned
red to get a beneficial hay, and with
storms threatening there was always a
devil of a rush to get a few acres mowed,
dried out and stacked,.
i s dou btful if large-scale cropping
coldd d e successful. Most of the good
o oW ns country is covered by stones and
pebbles, while the chances of a fresh
growth after cutting are remote unless
{“Land” continued on page 44.)


IF YOU'VE NEVER TRIED A
MOCCASIN-FRONTED GOLF
SHOE
v
It’s certainly time
you owned one. It’s
time you let your
feet rest easily in the
roomy toes of these
new styles. Only
then you’ll realise
what a difference the
feel of a really com-
fortable shoe makes
to your Golf.
No hard toecaps to
pinch and rub your
cxv
3098.
toes, you’ll take strokes off your round in ABBEY
MOCCASINS.
Stocked in full and half sizes.
Made in Brown Pebble-grain Calf 30/-
“If it's an Abbey Shoe it's a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
,il
.V
These rollers
corrugate the flat
sheets to the exact
standard measure-
ment.
a
vf,
LYSAGHT'S
Red Orb
Gal vani z ed
Iron is made to
the most exact specifications, and
its extreme rigidity and resis-
tance to strain makes it ideal for
roofing purposes. Throughout
Australia, millions of sheets of
Red Orb, carrying Lysaght's
guarantee, are sold every year
to confident users sure of the
long life which is built into
every sheet.
FREE a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of
useful information for ironworkers, store-
keepers, and the man on the land. Write for
your copy to John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
Box 196 D.. G.P.0., Sydney.
LYSAGHT
ORQ
AUSTRALIA
/^Tf^v
Vgt/RY«y
RED ORB
Galvanized Iron
for Roofing and
Walling.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
Australia*s Leading Financial Journal.
MARCH ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
Foreign Affairs and the Investor
N.Z.’s New Tariff
Investment Prospects
What to Buy and Sell
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
ffuf&ttlle&rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
.A Self-contained Sanitary System.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Approved by Board of Health.
HYGIENIC, INNOCUOUS.
m
No odours, flies,
germs or noise.
Provides one
amenity of City
life. Over 650
in use. Shell Oil
Co., 59 repeat
orders; Bank
N.S.W., 15. In-
stalled by Com-
monwealth ■ Govt.,
Hotels, Hospitals,
Schools. Private
Homes, Theatres,
etc. Can be installed where Septic Tanks are
impracticable. Simply installed. Cheap to run.
Automatic. Price £15/10/- f.o.b. Sydney. £16
other States. Write for free pamphlet.
1IYGEIA SANITARY CO.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
followed by adequate rain—which is un-
likely. Unless a new growth was certain
it would be senseless to crop, for the
standing grass quickly becomes a natural
hay, from which the waste, by being
trampled by stock, would not be as great
as that lost by hand-feeding methods.
One thing is certain: all stock have
an equal chance of eating standing grass.
The weak never get their share when
hand-fed. And the condition lost by
stock from the knocking about they re-
ceive, and from standing for hours on
the feeding-grounds, probably is greater
than they would lose feeding naturally
on scanty grass.
Perhaps the best fodder conservation
will come from making silage of speci-
ally cultivated sorghum and other fod-
ders, although official experiments along
these lines have so far been unsuccessful.
Finally, has “A.S.” ever worked out
just how many tons of hay or ensilage
would be needed or how many acres of
grass cropped to feed even 1000 sheep—
the number is more likely to be 10,000 —
for three months of the year?
Lucerne Moves Inland'.
“J. Want”: Twenty-five years ago it
was held that lucerne would grow only
on choice, well-limed coastal land.
To-day it is spreading inland from
the east coast at a great rate on all sorts
of soils. In Queensland, its western
fringes are now in the Maranoa, and
plantations laid down around Wallum-
billa in 1936 are doing well.
The inland has a special technique for
lucerne. Bacterial conditions must be
right, as elsewhere. Seeding should be
light—3lb. to 41b. per acre —and seed
should not go in more deeply than fin.
According to Queensland Agricultural
Department much lucerne is being put
in on old wheat fields. The best practice
is to put the seed in with the last wheat
sowing—sow the wheat first and then lay
down the lucerne, afterwards covering
with a light harrow. If the lucerne seed
were put in with the grain it would be
drilled in too deeply.
It might be worth while to give lucerne
a start in some of the river beds and
watercourse country of the Queensland
central-west. I have seen it in the drought
of 1923 along the Macintyre with roots
which had not been traced to their
bottom point at over 30ft. And if burr
will grow luxuriantly along the Barcoo,
there seems to be no reason why lucerne
should not do fairly well if properly
acclimatised and inoculated.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.L.W.”: Before using a new collar
throw it into a tub of water and leave
it all night. Next morning work the
horse in it all day. After unyoking, oil
thoroughly with a mixture of neatsfoot
and draught castor oil.
“Nothung”: Corn-ear worm trouble
has appeared in Queensland cotton again
this season. Conditions favor severe out-
breaks this month. The Agricul-
tural Dept, recommends swabbing—a
spray of lib. lead arsenate, one gallon
molasses and six gallons of water, to be
applied at the rate of 10 to 15 gallons
to the acre. Flip it on with a brush.
Repeat after five days if needed. A
dust —calcium arsenate or lead arsenate
—slb. to 71b. to the acre, is an alternative.
“Pappamosca”: A little powdered
charcoal mixed with pig feed aids diges-
tion, since Dennis is not made by nature
for rapid digestion but is nevertheless a
rapid eater when food is palatable.
Where pigs are grazed, a little coarse
charcoal in the yards provides the
animals with a chew which they relish.
“M.L.W.”: Never use a single strip of
hide as' a belly for a plaited rope. It
stretches less than the plaiting, takes the
strain and breaks, leaving a weak spot.
A plaited belly stretches uniformly with
the outside plait.
“Mookau”: Blight, which affects cattle
in the wet coastal areas of the North,
causing blindness, should be treated with
3gr. silver nitrate, lgr. morphia sulphate
and loz. soft water. Another good mix-
ture is 2 p.c. zinc sulphate and 2 p.c.
boracic acid in boiled water. Solutions
should be put in with a bulb syringe,
after eyes have been carefully cleaned.
“Lam”: When transplanting young
tomatoes in hot weather, wrap the stems
in paper. Light sheets (say, 4in. by l|in.)
can be carried on a string on the planter’s
belt. Each plant should be covered
except for the leaves. The scheme not
only prevents “burning off but keeps
out the cutworm.
“Bundalinga”: Pull briar bushes out
with a chain round the butt hitched up
to horses or tractor. If young shoots
appear, hoe them out and spray the
ground with lib. of sodium chlorate in
a gallon of water.
“Goolagimbi”: The chief disadvan-
tage with ringbarking is that just before
the tree dies it sometimes puts out a
tremendous crop of seeds. This is
avoided with poisoning, but if the poison-
ing is done when the sap is up, a crop
of suckers will come from beneath the
ring. During winter a good kill should
result. Arsenic pentoxide is on its own
as a tree poison.
“Albarmount”: Either as a pure-bred
or a cross the Aberdeen-Angus is a
favorite with butchers and show judges.
At the latest Smithfield competition for
beef crosses, A.-A. heifers gained the
championship and reserve in a field well
representative of other breeds. In all
inter-breed contests, the black polls
scooped over 88 p.c. of the first prizes.
In the carcass section, the breed took 117
points, leaving only 48 for other competi-
tors. Butchers paid on the average 2s.
7d. per cwt. more for the A.-A. beef than
for that of any other breed. The dams
were Shorthorns.
“Yeno Ham”: Kikuyu fills the bill
where soil erosion is severe. It has a
special use in contour furrows on sloping
country to reduce run-off and allow water
to soak in. Because of its long-running
stems and strong roots, Kikuyu will hold
the soil. If the eroded patch is unfertile
cowyard or stable manure will stimulate
the Kikuyu, which is all the better for
topdressing when it becomes established.
The grass should not be planted in culti-
vation paddocks, as it is difficult to eradi-
cate.
“Salmon Gums”: “Nothung” says (B.
23/2/’3B) that “in Australia, sulphate of
ammonia is preferable to nitrate ; it con-
tains more nitrogen—about 4 p.c.—and is
about 15s. a ton cheaper.” On the face
of things he’s right; but an old agricul-
tural scientist who has used nitrate with
marked success explained his preference
by the theory that the soda content acted
on the insoluble potash in the soil and
made it available to the plant. His ex-
periments definitely proved that the two
fertilisers have different effects.
“M.L.W.”: In shoeing a horse never
pare down or cut the frog. This causes
it to become shrunken and diseased.
Many people think that if the frog rests
on the ground it will become sore. This
is incorrect. The frog acts as a spring
and prevents jarring of the leg. It aids
the grip and prevents slipping and stops
the heels from contracting.
“Natural Law”: Tell “Ghanam” (B.
9/2/’3B) that the rabbit virus now under
test by the C.S. and I.R. has been tried
out on Australian fauna and on man,
monkeys, cattle, horses, rats, mice, hares,
fowls and dogs, without one proving sus-
ceptible. Further, the chance of infec-
tion being air-carried for more than a few
inches is very slight. So a double fence
with a 3ft. space between should certainly
keep the disease out of a rabbit farm
even if it might not keep the rabbit in.
“Walliew”: The influence of Brice
Henry’s coastal fattening scheme at Tully
(N.Q.) is to be seen already in the rise
in land values. For p.l. holdings that
were previously valued at £5O and £lOO
respectively £642 and £1025 were re-
cently received. With abattoirs at Towns-
ville the coastal topping scheme would
be an assured success.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What need be added to cracked maize to
make it a balanced ration for poultry ? (2)
A book of recipes for fowl feed? (3) How to
make meatmeal ? Is it just minced corned
meat ? —S8683.
(1) Maize fed to poultry has been known
to give excellent results when the fowls have
had access to all the milk they want. If this
is not possible, supplement the maize feed
with a mash of bran 301b., pollard 601b., meat-
and bonemeal 91b., and salt lib. The birds
should be given all the green feed they will
eat. (2) The Q’land Agricultural Department
has been asked to forward you a pamphlet on
poultry feeding. (3) Meatmeal is procurable
at or about 10s. per 1001b. It is not made
from corned meat, which would prove harmful.
It would be better to buy meat-and-bone mix-
ture.
* * * *
The best books on dairying for local (Tas-
manian) conditions; also on pig-raising? —
S8688.
Try R. S. Maynard’s Dairying in Australia
(Angus and Robertson) and Henry and Mor-
rison’s Feeds and Feeding (British). Two pam-
phlets, “Rations for Dairy Stock” and “The Feed-
ing of Dairy Cattle,” issued by the Stationery
Office, London, for the British Department of
Agriculture, are worth while. Regarding pigs,
suggest you write to E. J. Shelton, Queensland
Agricultural Department, for , his pamphlets.
But you should get a good deal of informa-
tion from Launceston branch of the Tasmanian
Agricultural Department.


MILLIONS STARVING
ON THREE SQUARE MEALS A DAY...
MINERALS ARE NEEDED BY
EVERY CELL IN
YOUR BODY.
CALCIUM
HE A RT, TEETH- BLOOD
\ BONES- NERVES
PHOSPHORUS
1 BRAIN. CLAN OS
' BLOOD
\FERRUM
V 1 BLOOD
POTASSIUM
[MUSCLE .. BLOOD
SODIUM
\BL OOD
BIDOMAK
contains them all ...in
an easily assimilated
a pre-dissolved liquid form
\
fifes’!
m
Once Always ILL—Now
Well Again—Thanks to
BIDOMAK
From Bedridden Invalid to Old-time
Dancer.
Twenty years a nervous wreck, with a horrible nerve rash and
a blood count of only 3,500,000, Mrs. Horne, of 136 Layton
Street, Camperdown, could not do her own housework.
Bidomak improved her red blood count to 5,500,000 red
corpuscles to the cubic millimetre.
Now at 77 she does all her own work, and even danced five
old-time dances.
During- her long and serious illness, Mrs. Horne was bedridden
for as long as eight months at a stretch, and her recovery is hailed
by friends and neighbours as a positive miracle.
Her case was checked by a fully qualified doctor.
Was Just a Walking Skeleton —Now a
Happy Child.
“Nothing more than a. walking shadow,” said a friend of
little Marie Ryan, aged four, and her mother tells how irritable
and nervy she was.
She would not play—picked at her food—her sleep was dis-
turbed —now, after taking Bidomak, she is a different child —
obedient —contented —eating and sleeping well —and scientific tests
•show that her red blood count has improved from 4,000,000 to
5,000,000 red blood corpuscles in the course of barely a month by
taking Bidomak.
A Miracle of Medicine.
“BIDOMAK has made me well again, I sleep well and can
do justice to my meals at last.”
Says Mr. G. Henry, of Camperdown.
“BIDOMAK is a miracle in medicine —it banished ‘nerves’ and
depression like a magician’s wand- —made me a new man—built up
my body—strengthened my memory—helped the blood stream to
function properly—BlDOMAK is paramount as a nerve, brain and
body builder.
“I took it after a severe nervous breakdown and months in
hospital. It made me well again. Words in cold ink are poor
expressions of my gratitude.”
Money Back Guarantee
So certain are we that you will notice these benefits quickly
that we guarantee to refund your money if the very FIRST
bottle of BIDOMAK does not benefit you and you return
the nearly-empty bottle to your nearest distributor,
addressed below, within 14 days. Nothing could be fairer
than that.
Bidomak is a product of the Douglas Drug Co., Sydney, Adelaide,
Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. Sole agents for Tasmania: L.
Fairthorne and Son Pty., Ltd., 42-48 St. John Street, Launceston.
New Zealand Distributors: Q-Tol-Fluenzol Laboratories, Wellington,
New Zealand.
Terrible diet deficiency of modern food minerals . . . Amazing
discoveries of modern medicine strike at root of Nervous
Troubles.
BENEFIT GUARANTEED
OR YOU PAY NOTHING IS OFFER MADE BY DISCOVERER OF
BIDOMAK
THE TONIC OF THE CENTURY
FOR MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN
Millions are starving on three square
meals a day! That may seem a strange
statement but it is a true one, because
many modern foods, due to over refine*
ment are gravely short of certain mineral
substances, without which the human
system cannot possibly remain in perfect
health. Therefore we say millions are
starving for these vital minerals, which
are drained from our system, through
hard work, worry, over indulgence, and
so forth; and which our normal food
supply does not replace.
Therefore we suffer from—
ikipp wpQ Sleeplessness, depression,listlessness,
anaemia, nervous indigestion, neuralgia,
nerve pains, lack of confidence, headaches and similar
constitutional disorders.
You may be suffering from some chronic
nagging complaint—headaches—nervous
dyspepsia, and the like; or you may be
numbered with the vast army of people
who are simply under par —lacking in
pep. lacking the energy and vitality
it takes to make life a pleasure and
success. You may be suffering from
the depressing influence of being con-
stantly tired—-subject to headaches, or
colds or a number of distressing minor
ailments, unimportant in themselves,
but serious in the way they slow you
up mentally and physically. BIDOMAK
has been formulated by a brilliant
research worker to overcome this min-
eral starvation, and to provide a
method of supplying energy to the
cells of the body wherever the natural
supply is insufficient to maintain the
normal activity of the organs and
glands.
BIDOMAK is a
scientific compound—
of vital mineral elements which con-
tains no harmful drugs, and which may
be taken freely by young or old. It
contains ferrum, calcium, sodium,
potassium, phosphates, glycerophos-
phates, and sucrose, as well as other
necessary elements. These are the cell
foods which are vitally necessary for
the blood to build up and maintain
the cells and tissues of the body by
activating and rejuvenating the cells —
which banish the infirmities due to
nerves and constitutional weaknesses.
BIDOMAK restores vital energy and
gives back youthful enthusiasm to
those who have been ill. It makes old
arteries young again—it tones up vital
organs which have become sluggish—
it is winning back for thousands the
zest for life, the thrill of popularity
and the enthusiasm of wonderful health
and good spirits.
Blessing of Vigorous
Health
For men, women and children of
naturally weak constitutions BIDOMAK
gives the chance of revitalised vigorous
health, whilst those who are obliged by
their work to be keyed up always have
found in BIDOMAK a most certain way
of keeping always thrillingly fit.
SIDOMAK increases
Oxygen in the blood
stream—
and thus it increases the supply ol
red corpuscles and charges the blood
and tissues with an increased supply of
revitalising life-giving oxygen.
BIDOMAK creates
new healthy nerve
cells—
and provides a full supply of healthy
nerve fluid, at the same time removing
poisons and wastes from the system.
BIDOMAK creates a storage of energy
and nerve force—overcomes every run-
down condition, every disorder not due
to germ attack but just to lack oi
energy and drive. It gives that vitality
so essential to full recovery from ill-
ness —that tonic stimulation without
which convalescence is a long drawn-
out agony of depression. It improves
the activity of every gland and organ
in the system, and supplements the
driving force of the complicated
machinery housed in the human body
whenever that force falls below the
requirements of. the individual.
Take a course of BIDOMAK and youi
whole attitude towards life will be
changed.
REJUVENATION
You will feel rejuvenated re-made
you will discover this inner conscious-
ness of well-being will create for you
a popularity you never knew before.
What a glorious satisfaction it will be
for you to enjoy the thrill of perfect
health without the aid of pow-
ders, tablets, or drugs—for this
is just the enjoyment which will
be yours when you take a course
of BIDOMAKL. Read the reports
of users, and you will catch the
spirit of their own enthusiasm—
and then go right down to your
chemist this very night and get
yourself a bottle of BIDOMAK —
you will feel it doing you good
from the very first dose.
ALL
CHEMISTS
and STORES
3/-
FOR A
LARGE
BOTTLE
NEW
ZEALAND
3/6
€7 <9
m
u... w n
d r©
hBB)]
fxv-x
SO**?
Get a
BOTTLE
of
BIDOMAK
and be
WELL
END NERVES AS YOU END MINERAL STARVATION - WITH
THE TONIC OF THE CENTO W-for Nerves, Brain onJ that depressed Feeling


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
• SHORT STORY
. WRITING
• F REELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I«C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Girl (15£), Sydney, passed inter, in shorthand
and business principles, seeks position as junior
office girl. Will continue at night-school for
speed.—8829.
Young man, S.A., leaving for England middle
of year, would like to hear of another, travel-
ling same time, for companionship.—8830.
Wanted partner for patent (industrial); good
possibilities.—8873.
Partner wanted in goldmine; have crushing
machinery and motor-truck. Good money,
small outlay.—8863.
To buy Beautiful Manly, published in 1888.
—8842.
To buy Such Is Life, by Tom Collins, first
edition. —8840.
To buy holey dollar and dump.—8841.
To buy, new or second-hand, Her Second
Blooming, by Dolf Willarde. —8869.
To buy The Kingdom of Heaven, published
in Melbourne about six years ago.—8852.
To buy copy of Wise’s P.O. Directory for
1937.—8894.
To buy The History of Botany Bay, published
in 1888 by The Bulletin. —8890.
Detailed information concerning activities and
life of late Sir Henry Wickham, explorer,
planter and pearler, during his sojourn in Q’land
and Pacific Islands in 1886 and two or three
years after. Material required for intended
biography. (To Edward V. Lane, Bee School,
Beechcroft-road, London, S.W.17).
Information Sought.
My 13-year-old boy, doing second-year inter,
this year, wants to be a ground engineer. (1)
What would be the best place to study for it,
a university or technical college ? (2) Would
the technical college pass be as good as the
university and command as good pay? (3)
About what would each cost ? —8539.
(1) To become a ground engineer a technical
school course would be adequate. If, how-
ever, it is desired to become a designer of air-
craft or to hold any scientific appointment
connected with aviation a university degree is
essential. A course for ground engineers is
available at the Sydney Technical School. (2)
A technical school diploma is a lower qualifi-
cation than a university degree, and therefore
the pay to be expected is l'ower. (3) The tech-
nical school should be requested to supply de-
tails of subjects and costs. Cost of an en-
gineering course of four (4) years at the Mel-
bourne University would be about £35 per year
for lectures and £10 per year for books, etc.
* *■ m *
(1) Length of span of Sydney Harbor
Bridge ? (2) Height of the structure from the
water at (a) road level, (b) highest point? (3)
Width ? (4) Number of roadways and rail
lines? (5) Approximate weight of steel in
structure ? (6) Date commenced and com-
pleted ? (7) Total cost ( Australian currency) ?
—8843.
(1) 1650ft. (2) ( a ) 190ft., ( b ) 440ft. (3) Main
span 160ft. Approach spans 133ft. 9in. (4)
There is one roadway, 57ft. wide between kerbs,
carrying four rail lines. (5) Main span 36,900
tons, approach spans 15,100 tons, total 52,000
tons. (6) Steel work was commenced Sep-
tember, 1926, completed January, 1932. (7)
The total capital cost of the bridge to June 30,
1937, was £9,883,055. This amount will ulti-
mately be reduced by possibly £200,000 to
£300,000 upon sale or transfer of surplus
resumed lands.
* * * *
(1) Was the Filipino featherweight boxer
Speedy Dado ever beaten in Australia ? If so,
by whom, and where did the contest take
place ? (2) Was there ever an Australian boxer
named Billy Starr, and did he meet Dado ?
(3) What were some of Starr’s fights? —8587.
(1) Yes. Dado was knocked out in seven
rounds by Mickey Miller at the Melbourne
Stadium on June 2, 1934. (2) No record of
an Australian boxer of that name, but Billy
Carr, a featherweight who was fighting when
Dado visited this country, is probablv the man
meant. Carr did not fight Dado. (3) Besides
losing close decisions to Merv Blandon, Joe
Hall, Spider Roach, Mickey Leonard, Herb
Bishop and Max Richards, Carr has drawn
with Blandon, Richards, Mickey Miller and
Roach. Carr also outpointed Blandon, Miller,
Richards, Ron Leonard, Mickey Bowers, Pat
Craig and others.
¥ * * *
(1) Length, beam, draught and weight of the
Government patrol boat Larrakia ? (2) Number
and type of engines ? (3) H.p. and r.p.m. of
engine? (4) Top speed and cruising speed? (5)
Is sail-propulsion ever used? —8408.
(1) Length 45ft., beam 9ft. 6in., draught 2ft
4|in., weight 5j tons. (2) Three aero engines.
(3) Engines are each 100 h.p., with a maximum
speed of 3000 r.p.m. (4) Top speeed 26 m.p.h.,
cruising speed 19 m.p.h. (5) No.
* * * *
How many motor-cars, commercial motor
vehicles and motor-cycles are registered in the
various Australian States, and per 1000 of
population ? —8851.
Motor vehicles registered at June 30, 1937,
were as follows: N.S.W., 190,963 motor-cars,'
62,244 commercial vehicles, 23,439 motor-cycles;
total, 280,646 vehicles; per 1000 of population,
104.23. Vic., 137,885 motor-cars, 69,025 com-
mercial vehicles, 26,663 motor cycles; total,
233,573 vehicles; per 1000 of population, 125.87.
Q’land, 68,857 motor-cars, 34,868 commercial
vehicles, 8040 motor-cycles; total, 111,765
vehicles; per 1000 of population, 112.60.
South Aust., 50,633 motor-cars, 19,209 com-
mercial vehicles, 9097 motor-cycles; total,
78,939 vehicles; per 1000 of population, 134.10.
West. Aust., 34,180 motor-cars, 19,919 commer-
cial vehicles, 6977 motor-cycles; total, 61,076
vehicles; per 1000 of population, 134.46. Tas.,
15,089 motor-cars, 4012 commercial vehicles,
3573 motor-cycles; total, 22,674 vehicles; per
1000 of population, 97.49. Northern Territory,
336 motor-cars, 704 commercial vehicles, 41
motor-cycles; total, 1081 vehicles; per 1000 of
population, 198.20. Federal Capital Territory,
1346 motor-cars, 315 commercial vehicles, 82
motor-cycles; total, 1743 vehicles; per 1000 of
population, 169.62.
* * * . *
(1) Are frogs found living in apparently solid
stones in parts of Central Queensland? (2)
If true, what is the explanation of this? —8701.
(1) Quite likely, but not so far authentically
recorded. (2) There is now general agreement
that the frog, when young and small, has
entered the rock by way of a fissure, and,
being unable to get out again, has subsisted on
insects attracted by its odor and such mois-
ture as soaks through (frogs do not drink but
absorb moisture through the skin). When the
rock is split, it separates along the existing
crack so that it would appear that the frog
has been living within solid stone.
* * * *
The book-borer ravages book libraries in
Central and North Queensland, despite borax,
book-paint and glass cases. (1) Any remedy ?
(2) Any literature on the subject? —Bs96.
(1) Fumigation is usually effective against
book pests. Carbon disulphide for a period of
24 to 36 hours, with the books stacked in an
airtight receptacle, should be tried. Spraying with
a pyrethrum kerosene spray will also help.
(2) A recent publication, Insect Enemies of
Books, by Weiss and Curruthers (New York
Public Library, 1937), contains, in addition to
comprehensive information on book pests, a 36-
page bibliography on publications dealing with
book preservation. Books mentioned in the
inquiry could probably be consulted in the
Public Library, Sydney.
* * * *
What causes the “southerly busters” that
visit Sydney in the summertime, and what are
the chief characteristics of the wind? —8912.
They are peculiar to the N.S.W. coastal
regions, south of the Clarence River chiefly,
and invariably follow hot-weather periods from
August to May, causing a temperature-fall of
from 20deg. to 40deg. in 24 hours. They are
usually associated with “V”-shaped depres-
sions, though occasionally relatively high-baro-
metric pressures in Vic. cause them. Thunder-
storms sometimes accompany them, and if the
high-pressure centres travel in high latitudes
good rains occur. During the last 20 years the
strength and number of southerlies have
diminished. This is due, it is believed, to the
extension of farm cultivation in the N.S.W.
interior.
* * * *
(1) What chemicals are used in the con-
struction of fire extinguishers? (2) How do
these chemicals operate to extinguish a blaze ?
—8909.
(1) There are three types: (a) Soda-and-acid,
in which lib. bicarbonate of soda is mixed with
2gal. water. When this type is inverted 2oz. of
sulphuric acid is added to the solution, and
carbonic-acid gas is formed at a pressure of
1001 b. to the sq. in. (6) Foam, in which bi-
carbonate of soda, glue or liquorice root is
dissolved in 2gal. water, which is placed in an
outer cylinder, while a solution of aluminium
sulphate in water is placed in an inner cylinder.
When the solutions are combined a pressure
of 1001 b. per sq. in. is generated, (c) Electrical
fire type, in which carbon tetrachloride is em-
ployed. (2) ( a ) Combined action of water and
gas; ( b ) formation of foam which extinguishes
by excluding oxygen; (c) by generation of gas
five times heavier than air.
* * ❖ H:
(1) What Commonwealth Government line oj
steamers was sold by public tender about 10
years ago? (2) To whom? (3) Price? (4)
Under what conditions? —8918.
(1) The Bay line of one-class passenger
steamers and freighters. (2) White Star line.
(3) £1,900,000. (4) Chiefly that a service equal
to that of the Commonwealth Shipping Board
and an efficient Australian organisation be
maintained.
* * * *
(1) What is the story of the Marie Celeste?
(2) Has the mystery been satisfactorily ex-
plained ? —8934.
(1) The ship, an American brig, was found
by a British vessel, the Dei Gratia, on Decem-
ber 4, 1872, 400 miles east of the Azores, under
foremast staysail and jib, and steering an
erratic course. There was not a soul aboard.
The last entry in the ship’s log had been made
ofi November 24. The vessel was seaworthy
and staunch, and her boats were on board.
There were no traces of panic or of fighting,
and the cash-box was untouched. (2) There
have been many attempts to explain it; none
has gained general acceptance.
* * * •
What are ghost sharks? —8937.
When caught, ghost sharks ( Holocephali )
are glistening silver in color. Differing in
many respects from tru# sharks, they, like
the higher fishes, have one gill opening only
on each side, instead of the sharkish five to
seven slits; and bony grinders instead of teeth.
Their skin is smooth, and they have a stout
spine before the dorsal fin; the tail trails off
into a long filament. The male has a peculiar
bony hook on its forehead. The elephant
fishes of Vic., Tas. and M.L. waters are re-
lated.
# * * *
A few particulars concerning the British
battleship Indefatigable, which was lost at Jut-
land ?— 8779.
Launched in 1911, she carried 12in. guns and
had a speed of 23 knots. On the outbreak of
the Great War she was stationed in the
Mediterranean. When the German warships
Goeben and Breslau escaped from Messina she
was stationed off Malta with other ships
watching the Adriatic, but she was sent to Gib-
raltar when no sign of the Goeben could be
found. During the battle of Jutland she was
a unit in Admiral Beatty’s fleet, but was sunk
by the German battle-cruiser Von der Tann.
* * * *
(1) How are sea sponges prepared for
market? (2) Sydney buyers of sponges? (3)
How are they sold? —B94l.
(1) The living tissue must be completely re-
moved by stamping on or beating the sponges.
They are then suspended over the side of the
boat in the water to mhcerate for a day. Then
they are once more taken on deck and stamped
upon, washed in tubs of sea water, and hung
up to dry. At the end of a week they are
taken ashore and spread on the sand to bake
in the sun, after which they are packed in
sacks. (2) G. Ripley and Co., 321 Pitt-street,
and Elliotts and Australian Drug Co. —both
Sydney. Also, a number of motor-accessory
houses deal in them. (3) At a price for each
sponge.
* * * *
How is twenty-one point casino played? —
—8950.
Same as ordinary casino, save the method
of scoring. Twenty-one points is the game,
and the usual way is for each player to take
mental count of the number of cards, spades
and other points he has made and claim game
as soon as he reaches 21. The count is then
made, and if it is found that he has not
reached 21 his opponent wins, no matter what
his score may be. If, on the other hand, he is
21, it is his game, even though his adversary
has scored more. If neither claims to be out
and it is found that both are “out” the game
must be continued to 32 points, and*so on,
adding 11 points to the score to be reached
until one player claims to have won the game.
*'* * *
What was the cause of the affair at Sura-
fend, at the conclusion of the Palestine cam-
paign, in which Australian and Maoriland
troops were involved? What happened, and
what was the end of it? —8953.
Surafend was a rest camp for the Anzac
Mounted Division —First and Second Brigades
of the Australian Light Horse and the N.Z.
Mounted Rifles Brigade. Close by was a
Bedouin village, the inhabitants of which raided
the camp by night. Protests to the High Com-
mand proved useless. One night a M.L. sergeant
was awakened by a thief who pulled the kitbag
he was using as a pillow from under his head.
He chased the thief, who turned and shot him
dead. Roused by the shot the Maorilanders
turned out and tracked the murderer to his
village. The sheik was asked to give up the
culprit and refused. The Maorilanders, sup-
ported by the Australians, passed all the women
and children out and then dealt with the men
with sticks. Many were killed, and the village
was burned. Headquarters asked for the arrest
of those responsible, but they could not be
traced. The division was paraded and Allenby
gave it the rough side of his tongue. When
decorations were distributed the A.M.D. was
ignored.
* * * *
What uses can be made in cabinet work of
(1) onion wood, (2) corkwood, (3) beefwood?
—8945.
(1) Onion wood, which is soft and easily
worked and takes a good polish, is suitable for
counters, wainscoting, furniture, doors, panel-
ling, etc. (2) Corkwood is suitable for indoor
work, but only when little strength is required.
It is light and very soft, with a close grain,
having a small neat figure when cut on the
quarter. It could be used for panelling, skirt-
ings, mouldings, sashes and flooring. (3) This
is rather open in the grain, but takes a good
polish. Not generally used, on account of its
rarity. It is especially suitable for ornamental
boxes, brush backs and cutlery and scientific-
instrument cases.
* * * *
What are the distinguishing points of the
curlew, and why is the stone-plover sometimes
called a curlew? —8923.
The curlew is the stone-plover ( Burhinus
magnirostris), and is found throughout Aus-
tralia in open-forest country. Belonging to the
“wader” group of Australian birds, it is large,
20£in. high, standing on long legs, unwebbed,
and is mottled brown and white, with large
black eyes. Building no nest, the female lays
two eggs on bare ground. It derives its
common name, as does the English curlew (to
which it is in no way related), from its melan-
choly cry.
* * * *
Details of tackle used by surf fishermen on
the N.S.W. coast?— B93o.
An Bft. rod, a free-running reel, about 200
yards of No. 6 or No. 8 gut line, a flat
sinker attached to end of line, 2oz. to 40z.,
according to the state of the surf (the lighter
sinker for the light surf). For whiting, beach
worms are mostly used for bait; for bream,
prawns and a beach shellfish known as pipi;
for larger fish such as jewfish, small fish such
as young tailer are usually employed.
* * * *
Is seaweed useful as a garden fertiliser?
How to apply it?— BB2s.
Seaweed is valuable for fortifying sandy
soils. Cut it into short lengths and mix with
equal parts of rotted stable manure, lawn grass
and leaves, and stack in a pit to decay; it will
be ready for use in early spring. The rotted
compost should be used very sparingly to heavy
soils, and only after the beds have been
thoroughly drained.
Brief Answers.
P.A.: Complete figures are not tabulated
until end of statistical year. An estimate might
be made by reference to daily papers covering
the period... .The Scribes: Not much to
choose. No. 1 most legible; No. 2 most grace-
ful... .H.M.W.: Full particulars from the
Children’s Library Movement, 185 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney S.S.: (1) Durrant’s Press Cut-
tings, 32 Holborn Viaduct, London, E.C.l.
(2) Luce’s Press Clipping Bureau, 157 Cham-
bers-street, New York.... J.L.J.: Write Miss
E. O’Neill, secretary, Lindsay Gordon Lovers
Society, Delmere, Fitzwilliam-street, Kew, Vic.
... .J.J.: Correct version is: “Quid afferre
consilii potest, qui seipse eget consilio ?” Trans-
lated it reads: “What advice can he bring to
others who needs advice himself?” The phrase
is from Cicero... .M.M.K.: The paragraph
appeared on page 14 of The Bulletin of April
14, 1937 E.G.: Cast-iron about 2000deg.
F. brass from 1570deg. to 1800deg. F., depend-
ing upon composition. (2) No, they must be
melted in a closed furnace A.J.N.: To cure a
young cattle-dog of biting high put a long light
chain on if working in sight, or a very heavy
one if out of it, so that the dog cannot get the
chain caught in obstacles, and keep it on till
the dog has steadied down. If he starts to bite
high again at any time, put the chain on again.
E.M.A.: (1) No. (2) Walt Disney Produc-
tions, Hyperion-avenue, Hollywood, Cal.,
U.S.A. (3) Apply Copyright Office, Common-
wealth Bank Chambers, Martin-place, Sydney.
(4) Yes. Write Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney. (5) Yes. (6) No.
. ...K.J.M.: The Cilento Medal is a bronze
medal that has been endowed in perpetuity
by Raphael Cilento, Director-General of Health
for Queensland, to be awarded annually to the
scientist deemed to have accomplished the best
practical work for the furtherance of tropical
hygiene and native welfare in Australia....
H.M.H.: The production of beef in Australia
during 1935-36 was estimated at 1,098,139,0001b.
The requirements of the local market absorbed
896,449,0001b., approximately 82 p.c., leaving
a balance of 201,690,0001b., or 18 p.c., which
was exported as frozen, chilled or canned beef.
....F.S.: (1) A. G. Healing, Ltd., 162-172
Goulburn-street, Sydney; Westcott, Hazell and
Co., 225 Castlereagh-street, Sydney; Bennett
and Wood, Pitt and Bathurst streets, Sydney.
(2) As above, and Stead and Baker, 743-745
Harris-street, Ultimo, N.S.W. (3) W. T.
Henley, 83 Clarence-street, Sydney. (4) Clyde
Engineering Co., 61-65 Wentworth-avenue,
Sydney; Erg Batteries Pty., 156 Goulburn-
street, Sydney... .T.I.: (1) Maffra is situated
132 miles by rail east of Melbourne and is
approximately 35 miles from the sea coast. (2)
The average percentage of sugar in sugar beets
is 16 p.c. in Vic. (3) The farmer is paid at
the rate of approx. £2 per ton for beet sup-
plied. (4) The acreage planted by individual
growers varies from 5 to 60 acres, the average
being in the vicinity of 20 acres J.R.A.:
Write Australian Gas Light Co., Pitt-street,
Haymarket, Sydney... .L.D.: (1) The taking
out of a “black eye” in a circular saw requires
expert technical knowledge and experience.
The saw will require to be hammered and re-
tensioned. Consult Henry Disston and Sons
Pty., Ltd., Salisbury-road, Camperdown
(N.S.W). (2) The operations in their order
are to strip the saw whilst in motion on the
bench, remove the saw and gullet same on a
gulleting machine, set the teeth and sharpen
same with a file.... J.L.S.: Little success can
be expected in attempting to grow frangipanni
in Melbourne without a properly-equipped glass-
house. Humidity is essential, and the sun-
room atmosphere, though it may be warm
enough, will be too dry. At the same time
they should be watered sparingly. Even with
facilities the Melbourne Botanical Gardens find
them unsatisfactory. Growth is slow and they
rarely flower, though it is not difficult to
keep them alive J.B.: (1) A person can
by will leave his property to anybody he wishes.
N.S.W. Testators’ Family Maintenance Act pro-
vides that, if a widow, husband or children
are left without adequate provision in the will
for their proper maintenance, the Court may
order such provision to be made out of the
estate. (2) That is a matter of ethics and
good behavior on which advice cannot be
given without knowing the facts. (3) A publican,
except in special circumstances, is not bound
to supply meals to any but lodgers and travel-
lers. (4) Yes. (5) Perfectly legal. .\ .J.L.H.:
Write Monsieur le Directeur, “Le Ciment,”
20 Rue Turgot, Paris, France... .C.R.: He is
looking at a portrait of his son G.E.: Write
District Naval Officer, Naval Staff Office, Beach-
road, Edgecliff, N.S.W J.M.H.: (1) No. (2)
Yes, if land is enclosed he can be prosecuted
under N.S.W. Enclosed Land Protection Act.
F.K.: Write Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney G.W.: No know-
ledge as to when the custom of souveniring
stumps, etc., at the conclusion of a Test match
began. As far as is known balls, bails and
stumps are the only things souvenired....
F.B.P.: Rapa Island is 1900 miles westward
of Easter Island, lat. 27° 36' south, long.
144° 17' west. The only service to this island
is maintained by a French warship approxi-
mately every three months, carrying stores and
provisions from Tahiti to this group. For any
further information and prospects of residing
in the island, refer to the Consul-General for
France in Sydney F.J.D.: The Union
Steam Ship Co. maintains an irregular cargo ser-
vice calling at Tahiti. The co. will supply in-
formation on application J.M.S.: (1) Ultimo
House Estate, Sydney, was bounded by Harris,
Mary Ann, Thomas and Jones streets, and be-
fore being demolished about two years ago
was part of the Technical College. (2) The
Tahiti-Grey cliff e disaster happened on Novem-
ber 3, 1927....J.R.: Care of a cattle-pup after
the age of six months consists of proper feed-
ing and handling and proper training. Food
should consist of fresh raw beef in the morning
(about ilb.), scraps for dinner, scraps and beef-
bones (raw) for tea. When 12 months old
dinner should be cut out. Mat should be a
chaff-bag stuffed with straw and sewn up at
end; put out in sun every day. Training:
Take out with old dog if possible; if not, work
at first on light line. Always feed and handle
it yourself.


SPECIAL "GENALEX" FEATURES.
Automatic Volume Control • Audio Automatic
volume control • Counterbalanced tuning
control O exclusive cabinet designs #
improved full vision dial, precision calibrated •
• “Sirufer" coils and air trimmers • extreme
sensitivity and selectivity • "Tuneray" visual
tuning indicator.
POST TO-DAY
THIS COUPON IS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE.
Please send me full information of your "Genalex" |
Radio Receivers: — I
* AC — AC/DC — Battery —Motor Car Radio—Accessories |
Name. I
Address I
(Send in unsealed envelope or paste on postcard. ■
Penny postage only in either case.
*Cross out those not required. g
with
GENALEX
RADIO
a There's a world of difference between old
™ ideas of radio reproduction and the
brilliant new standards achieved by the
Genalex. lust switch on a Genalex receiver,
and you hear for the first time all those subtle
lights and shades, which bring programmes to
life. How is it done? By constant research,
backed by the long experience of the B.G.E.
There is a variety of models from which to
choose either electric or battery operated.
They have remarkable purity of tone, a range
that is world-wide, simplicity of control and
cabinets of distinctive beauty. Hear the
Genalex at your local dealer's, or send coupon
below for full details.
" Genalex" Receivers are guaranteed by
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC
CO. PTY. LTD.
Sole Australian Representatives of the
England
“Magnet House," 104 Clarence St., Sydney
28 King St.. Newcastle
Sole Agents at .Brisbane: Norman Bell & Co. (Pty.), Ltd.
t w
cAoice a/*
rruzrti.
A MIXED GRILL.
In F. S. Alford, dead in Adelaide at 52,
The Bulletin had a contributor whom it
will miss. A practical S.A. farmer and
a busy writer, Alford contributed to the
“Land” pages for years, and in 1929
won a £2O prize for “the most useful
contribution” during the six months to
June 30. His last article, “Wheat—Aus-
tralian v. Canadian,” appeared in B.
23/2/’3B.
* * * *
“Mistresses Like Dictators,” said Mel-
bourne’s “Sun-News Pic.” No, it wasn’t
headlining another cable about Musso-
lini ; merely Mary Ann’s opinion of the
missus. Mary Ann wants a wages board.
* * * *
In 1921-22 Lloyd George, who now
wants to back the Red Spaniards and
the Red Chinese, backed the Greeks
against the Turks. John Bull sacked him
for it, and has never trusted him since.
* * * *
Speaking at a transport conference in
Melbourne, Isaac Isaacs, sometime C.J.
and G.-G., described the prohibition of
commercial road transport between Vic-
toria and the Riverina as “a reversion
to border barbarism,” and the High
Court judgment upholding the Victorian
prohibitory regulations as having
“created a tremendous chasm in Aus-
tralian citizenship.” He suggested that
the Commonwealth Government should
itself set a Privy Council appeal in
motion • but the Lyons Government has
had enough of Privy Council appeals.
* * * *
“W.K.”: M.L. Finance Minister Nash
has dug the following political howlers
from Maoriland’s “Hansard”; “Here we
are, harnessed to the chariot wheel of
that huge octopus that is crucifying
us.” . . . “When you find yourself run-
ning down hill you want to shorten
sail.” . . . “It’s like water off a duck’s
back, in one ear and out the other.” . . .
“We grasp at the shadow, the bubble
bursts and we have nothing in our hands
but sackcloth and ashes.”
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: A hard-working house
mother is lying in bed at our hospital
worrying herself about how Bill and the
kids will get on without her. Ten days
ago a capsized kettle scalded her right
forearm fairly extensively. She put on
flour and a bandage, and went on work-
ing. Next day it was painful, so she put
vaseline and washing-soda over the flour
and worked some more. Two days later
it was throbbing and raw, with a lump
in the armpit. A worried husband
brought her in just in time to allow really
serious septic consequences to be averted.
If only she had used a clean pad soaked
in cold tea instead of flour and the rest
the whole trouble would have been
avoided. Tannic acid solution, 1 to 5
p.c., is first-rate treatment for a burn. An
average brew of tea contains from 2 to
5 p.c. of tahnic acid. But don’t apply
it any warmer than bare blood-heat.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: For the main-
tenance of peace in a war-scared world
I offer as a solution the revival in im-
proved form of the belltopper hat. The
dignity which it confers would soon
abolish, by sheer force of contrast, the
variously-colored shirts upon which dic-
tators depend for their dominance. Made
of steel, the topper would be a valuable
protection against missiles from above.
Sufficient space would be available in
it for parking a light gas mask, thus rob-
bing of its worst terrors even the most
sudden of air raids upon an unsuspecting
civil population. A small supply of con-
centrated food could also be carried in
if, and it would serve admirably as a
container for beer or other nutrient
fluids in time of siege, or, on occasion, as
a boiler. Filled with earth, belltoppers
would build into effective machine-gun
emplacements. The frock-coat which
would inevitably follow upon its adop-
tion could be made of fireproof and gas-
resistant material, with a gasproof
' pocket for young infants or pet dogs,
according to taste or family circum-
stances.
* * * *
Lady Janet Bailey is on the committee
of the Elizabeth Garrett Anderson
Hospital in London, the first hospital in
the world to be staffed by women for
women. Hence the interest she has
shown at Melbourne in the Queen Vic-
toria Hospital, the only institution of the
kind in the Southern Hemisphere. During
her tour of inspection Lady Janet men-
tioned a progressive development in con-
nection with the Elizabeth Garrett.
Working for its welfare is a new Anglo-
Australian auxiliary, the members of
which are Australian women living in
England and Englishwomen who have
visited Australia.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name ana address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
Australia: Writer who salvaged H.M.A.S.
Brisbane has been sent to Wyndham....
P.W.: You don’t break any new ground
F. : Nearly, but it’s too mechanical K.S.:
Mule has staggers A.H.: Only mild wags
in those tongues... .B.McK.: “T. the R.”
beat you to it J. 8.: Crow-pecked corpse
buried tearfully in w.p.b D.M.0.: You
can’t rhyme “dumb” and “slung” K.H.:
Fair, but we’ve a whole aviary of moreporks,
all hooting “eerilly” M.H.W.: More careful
treatment would have landed “Shark”; others
should score elsewhere... .F.J.: Your “anxious
tentacles” don’t grip W.S.L.: Really, O’Riley 1
, ...G.T.C.: Pavement artist quietly moved on.
. ...C.A.: Local paper should like it....
T.E.McC.: Wobblings, not warblings... .8.A.:
“Who shall measure thy leagues, O Sea?”
Not we....J.C.: Nearly... .M.McC.: Faded
after first stanza M.L.L.: Deaf to spinster’s
wedding bells H.H.: Very much dislike
your “Rabelaisian spirit” F.H.P. (Eng-
land): No bite in your “original bit” E. 8.:
Pale D.H.: Why not write about the Wan-
ganui River? “Bombs and spitting guns” are
getting as hackneyed as roses H.C.8.:
“Wireless in the West” faded J.T-B.:
Sordid, and any meaning it may have escapes
us 0.Y.K.: Nothing in that batch for this
market, but you might land a couple of them
elsewhere G.K.: “The Big Idea” wasn’t
anything of the kind M.G.D.: You seem
to have been excavating in a graveyard....
G. : Weakened with every page
P.McK.: About five yarns per week in similar
vein have filed the edge off that idea F.W.:
“Buccaneer Blood” has some bright spots, but
the spiritual stuff is weak V.C.C.: You’ve
dipped your pen in treacle M.S.: Too long
for a par. and no good for anything else
D.G.T.: Piffle when it was thought of 50 years
ago H.S.C.: Has a very familiar ring
J.E.8.: Scratchy... .J. A.: The material seems
beyond your handling; it’s not of much use in
any case D.S.: Now let’s talk about some-
thing cheery M.M.: Has its point, but
that’s the best we can say R.K.: Idea fair,
treatment du11... .T.M.T.: Setting somewhere
in the locality of Australia, please C.R.:
No, we don’t approve N.S.M.: Nothing
new in that J.E.: “The Wandering Knight”
is still on the move H.L.: Too close to
Don Edwards’s paddock T.C.: The notion
has been worn to the bone... .N.R.N.: Nicely
done; but was there any reason for doing it?
W.H.D.: Consigned basketwards S.G.:
“The atmosphere of these lofty peaks made me
write these.” Suggest you try sea 1eve1....
F.D.: Flapper mag. might take it H.A.8.:
There’s not very much in “The Empty Space.”
... .8.C.: Not even a chuckle... .C.L.G.: Cut
it in half and leave it on a daily’s doorstep.
A.O.H.: Doesn’t mean a thing J.G.S.:
Might earn a purple certificate from Aunt
Arabella in a children’s supplement... .W.N.:
Nothing rings more falsely than artificial slang.
. ...P.N.: So that’s the way you play cricket
at Goanna Creek.... .J.F.K.: An ending must
be pretty strong if the yarn is to depend on it.
. ...M.R.C.: Since you scored with one effort
you’ve been beating along the wrong track
T.S.: Vague L.M.T.: No rake-off for
“Racketeer” M.F.T.: “He staggered from
his bed and cried ‘Away, away with your vain
dreams.’” And that goes for you, t 00....
R.L.S.: Not bad for his age... .L.T.P.:
That brat again! L.F.S.: What on
earth are you talking about? F.8.M.:
Forget about polysyllables and get down
to the yarn L.8.T.: Some persons like
working out moider mysteries, but they
like the writer to work ’em out as well.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.W.: Looks like the footprints of an in-
ebriated centipede F.W.R.: Brush up your
humor and draw with a firmer line... .C.H.M.:
Have you much to learn about art? About
all there is to know... .K.S.: Sent back
wrapped in a shroud G.T.: If that is Aus-
tralia’s P.M. our artists must have been draw-
ing another Joe Lyons... .WJ.N.: Kicking its
last in the w.p.b HJ.H.: We mistook the
Scooter Derby for a flight of grasshoppers
D.K.N.: Mistakes average about one dozen
per square inch... .A.C.B.: Pupil who guessed
udddrs instead of legs is an old friend....
J. : Centralian prospector now trudging his
way back to the “Dead Heart”... .E.V.T.: A
bold sweep about the linework, but a lameness
about the gags F.M.S.: We shunted that
engine off the line years ago... .C.K.B.:
Approach of Easter is always heralded by
the arrival of that chestnut... .J.L.: Collec-
tion of dwarfs in room built for giants
P.H.: Drawing is very promising, but jest is
as old as the elephant at the Zoo... .S.E.-J.:
You let your pen run away with itself, and your
gags are spineless J.B.: About as inspir-
ing as a page of noughts and crosses... .H.C.:
Lopsided female and gent, with drain-pipes for
legs were both shown to the door.. ..WJ.:
Neat work, but a tame batch of jests....
C.D.: Next artist who turns a map of Aus-
tralia into a face is due for the firing squad.
. ...P.B.: Not writing a cheque for that....
K. : We buy original material only; also, it
must be of a higher quality than that submitted.
. ...H.C.R.: The boy is a good copyist, but
he’ll need to learn to draw from life....A.L.T.:
The late Fred Brown explored that region with
better results... .B.W.: That fan-dancer won’t
help you to feather your nest M.G.: Pic-
ture of Chamberlain firing Eden from cannon
misses the mark by miles... .L.J.E.: Couldn’t
see the figures for the decorations, and the gags
were dull R.T.: Seeing that it is your first
offence you’re let off with a caution... .M.A.:
Might have passed in the time of Chidley, but
pointless nowadays... .C.F.: As an illustrator
you’re in the class of the person who writes
the Lord’s Prayer on a threepenny bit....
G.H.: A long way below print level.


■ '
A. LAND .-SO
remain^®'-*
tbiUf*^-
ft Sharp scenic contrasts,
hordes of quaint, unusual
natives strange wild animals
in fact all that is treasured by
an old, old land, has at last
bowed to Modern Transport.
Now South Africa welcomes you
to her wonders as you speed, in
luxurious comfort, along her rail-
roads, her highways and her sky-
ways. Learn how inexpensive the
whole glorious trip can be and
you’ll decide unhesitatingly that
South Africa is far too good a
gem to miss.
For full particulars, apply to any
office of
DALGETY & GO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England),
Agents for South African Railways
throughout Australia & New Zealand,
and to the Director, Publicity and
Travel Bureau, South Africa House,
Trafalgar Square, London.
I
in
m
m
T
tr
y
j
u
n
U
w
uvdii
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
“AWATEA
J 7
AUCKLAND
SYDNtr
-CO
UJfuINCTO
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2\ DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc.
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
V.
But local politics and the ambitions of
Mr. Mac Sherry were reduced to insig-
nificance by the great news from the
Mediterranean. The A.I.F. was in action
at last, and, in concert with the British,
the New Zealanders and the French, was
capturing Gallipoli.
The intelligence took the Australian
public by surprise. Many worthy citi-
zens had been convinced that the A.I.F.
would never do any fighting. If its
services were required in battle, why had
the first recruits been kept in the Com-
monwealth so long? Nearly three months
—an unconscionable time.
That sort of thing was no good to
the soldiers or to the country. It per-
mitted undue gratification of tastes for
beer and women. Elderly gentlemen
began to ask indignantly of soldiers who
were introduced to them, “When are you
going away?” They often closed the
conversation with a reference to their
own martial aspirations, unfortunately
thwarted: “I wish to God I were 20 years
younger; if I were 20 years younger
I would be in khaki myself and off like
a shot.”
And when these too-carefree volun-
teers had been collected at last and trans-
ported to Egypt, many of the young
beggars misbehaved. The Official Corre-
spondent had revealed the truth. He
wrote a sermon on their misconduct
which was published in all the papers,
and if there was anything in the rumor
that resentful young blackguards had
pitched him into a horse-trough,* it
showed what a scurvy lot they were. To
be hogging beer and fornicating and
ducking respectable correspondents when
British soldiers were winning the war in
France and British bluejackets in the
Dardanelles!
Yes, the Dardanelles. Having bottled
up the High Seas fleet and blown Von
Spee’s squadron to smithereens and pul-
verised all the commerce-raiders, the
Royal Navy had sent the Queen Eliza-
beth and some old battleships to the
eastern Mediterranean with orders to
train their guns on the Sultan’s palace.
And it wouldn’t be long before that hap-
pened.
The soberest of Australian dailies had
written on March 2, 1915: “The Dar-
danelles are being forced, and the panic-
stricken Turks are beginning to look
round for a way of escape. Once the
Dardanelles are open, Constantinople is
doomed.” Again, on May 18: “The in-
habitants of Constantinople are hourly
watching the horizon for first indica-
tions of the forcing of the strip of water
on which everything depends.”
And the beginning of the end of the
land campaigns was being staged in
France. “Eye-Witness” was a distin-
guished officer, as well as a Government
reporter, and “Eye-Witness” had testified
on March 15 that “our offensive at Neuve
Chapelle was attended with signal suc-
cess.” The Sydney “Morning Herald”
added on its own account: “The cap-
ture of Vauquois may be fitly regarded as
a first step in the expulsion of the Ger-
mans from Central France, as the cap-
ture of Neuve Chapelle is a first step in
their expulsion from Northern France
and from Flanders.”
A hundred and eight years before, a
certain Vice-Admiral Duckworth had
been “sent to the Mediterranean in com-
mand of the Royal George, to watch the
movements of the Turks....ln Febru-
ary, 1807, helped by a strong south wind,
the British warships passed up the Straits
and anchored off the Seven Towers. An
ultimatum was presented ordering Tur-
key, within 24 hours, to hand over the
Turkish fleet and make peace with
Russia.
“The Porte resisted. In one day a thou-
sand guns were ranged on both sides of
the Bosphorus. After a stay of 10 days
the British fleet was ordered to leave.”
It left, having no alternative except an-
nihilation, and “was considerably dam-
aged by the fire of the forts while pass-
ing down the Dardanelles.”
But in February, 1915, Mr. Winston
Churchill was First Lord of the Admir-
alty, and Mr. Winston Churchill was
positive that the guns of ten or a dozen
pre-Dreadnought battleships, plus those
of a battle-cruiser or two, could blast
Turkey out of the war. He unfolded his
plan to tongue-tied admirals and gen-
erals, and talked them into a dazed ap-
proval. Nobody seems to have men-
tioned the Duckworth experiment; but,
if anybody had, Mr. Winston Churchill
would have been ready with arguments
that it signified nothing.
The only British campaigns which had
any significance for Mr. Winston
Churchill were the campaigns of the
Churchills, famous for the battles of
Blenheim, Sidney-street and the Empire
Promenade.
Nineteen hundred and nineteen would
find Mr. Winston Churchill ready to lead
the Germans against Russia. As an
alternative his Government backed the
Whites against the Reds, as the Govern-
ment of the second Pitt backed the Bour-
bons against the Jacobins, and with iden-
tical consequences: a rally of patriotic
sentiment to the ruling ruffians and wind-
bags that gave them the victory. In 1938
Mr. Winston Churchill would be willing
to become the soul of a new Grand Alli-
ance against the Germans, the Italians
and the Japanese.
Under Mr. Winston Churchill’s direc-
tion, the successors to Duckworth aimed
two knockout blows at Turkey. Both
missed; and, although our rude fore-
fathers had decided in Duckworth’s case
that British prestige could take care of
itself, it was now discovered that British
prestige demanded a renewal of the at-
tack by land as well as sea. So, as the
pithiest of British war historians wrote
long afterwards, “Sir lan Hamilton was
hurried out to the Dardanelles at a day’s
notice,” equipped with “a pre-war hand-
book on the Turkish Army, a pre-war
report on the forts and a map which
proved inaccurate.”
Speedy as these “preparations” were, the
enemy had been thoroughly forewarned.
When Hamilton inspected his troops, “he
found that they had been so chaotically
distributed in their transports that they
had to be sent to Alexandria for redistri-
bution, thus entailing several weeks’
further delay.” And when this difficulty
had been overcome, “he had only five
divisions against six, 75,000 men against
84,000, for a hazardous landing on a
hostile shore.”
All this was, of course, concealed
from the Australian people until the
tragedy had been played out. Of The
Landing itself they were informed very
tardily, and in a curiously roundabout
way—through the medium of an ex-
change of official messages, vaguely
worded. There was a still greater delay
in giving them even a hazy notion of
what the operation had cost.
“To Australia and New Zealand,
according to Charles Bean, “the cost of
The Landing was 9000 men, of whom
at least 2500 were killed.” To noon on
April 30 the First Australian Division
lost 5000 men. But not until May 3
was the first casualty list issued to Aus-
tralian newspapers, and by May 5 the
only names published were those of 111
officers and men killed in action.
As the days went by the mournful lists
lengthened, the heroic story was told in
snatches, and an immense pride, touched
with pity, took possession of the people.
For the first time they became conscious
of being a nation.
Even the Would-to-Godders exulted.
They’d always said there was good stuff
in those lads. A little wild perhaps, but
full of pluck; real chips off the old
block. You could almost see them
bayoneting the Turks and tossing them
over the parapet —or was it the parados?
—as that English correspondent had
written. Good Old Aussies! They would
be received as conquering heroes when
they came back to dear old Australia ;
and it wouldn’t be long now.
Nobler things than ill-authenticated
feats of strength with bayoneted bodies
began to be set down. A private in the
Field Ambulance had for three weeks
borne wounded soldiers from the front
line to the Beach on the back of a com-
mandeered donkey. Every day and half
the night he had done this self-imposed
job until he was shot through the heart.
Fie had enlisted as Simpson, and the boys
called him Murphy, but his real name was
Kirkpatrick. He was one of those wild
seamen who were always going on strike ;
a ship’s fireman from Durham; a
Pommy.
A Melbourne college boy was among
the first to fall. His head full of Hen-
leyan lines, he had written some verses
when he enlisted, and a friend quoted a
stanza in a paragraph recording his fate:
The Bugles of England were calling o’er the
sea,
As they had called a thousand years, calling
then to me.
They woke me from dreaming at the dawning
of the day,
The Bugles of England; and how could I
stay?
An “On Active Service” section was
added to the Death Notices in the daily
papers, and for four years newspaper
revenues were supplemented from this
pathetic source. For the most part the
advertisements were crude expressions of
love and sorrow, but now and then they
were written with a golden pen:
A sister's tribute to Lance-corporal
Bethune, of the 2nd Battalion, A.1.F., one
of the two children of Mr. and Mrs. Wil-
* There was nothing in it. But our frank
historian admits that his “letter” —written at
the instance of -General Bridges—“was keenly
resented by the greater part of the force.”


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep —a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
88/
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and.
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6 for 50 doses. Ring
or write direct for particulars of this NEW
MODERN TREATMENT.
You may get temporary relief from rheumatism,
sciatica, muscular pains, gout or lumbago by the
use of pain-deadening drugs, but to be rid of them
permanently you must dissolve away the acids in
your system. COLOSEPTIC does this. It gently
stimulates and tones up the colon, thus restoring life
to its weakened walls. It restores normal alkaline
balance and also activates the three other important
eliminative organs—the pores of the skin, the kid-
neys and the respiratory system. COLOSEPTIC
means a permanent end to rheumatism and neuritis.
“Wonderful Relief
My husband and I have been using
COLOSEPTIC. Before using it my husband
teas drawn down one side with rheumatism.
I myself spent pounds each winter in medi-
cines for pains in the legs. Since taking
Coloseptic we have never been so well in our
lives.
Mrs. A.M.L.
(The original of this letter can be seen at Head Office.)
ENDS RHEUMATISM
AND NEURITIS . . .
UNUSUAL
SCIENTIFIC TREATMENT
ROOTS OUT CAUSE
"Rheumatism and Neuritis are
caused by self-poisoning" . . .
says Dr. Agasse-Lafont
Scientists have now traced the cause of Rheuma-
tism and Neuritis to self-poisoning. Let this scientific
treatment —COLOSEPTIC—free you from this men-
ace to your health and happiness. Let it show you
how you can at last be free from constant torture.
Rheumatism and Neuritis cannot be overcome until
the real cause is rooted out. This, Dr. Lafont points
out, is autoxima or self-poisoning. Incomplete
evacuation of the intestines caused by to-day's
demineralized and devitalised foods, leaves acid-
forming food-waste adhering to the walls of the
colon. Opening medicines cannot remedy this.
They only purge the lower end of the bowels—
leaving them irritated and weakened.
The decaying acid-forming waste in the colon de-
velops virulent poisons which seep into the blood
stream. The whole system becomes loaded with
uric and other acids. At every change of the
weather these acids crystallise out in razor-edged
deposits which lacerate the nerves at every move-
ment, thus causing the cruel pains of rheumatism,
neuritis, sciatica and lumbago.
vcx
Clogged
Colon.
Banish COLON CLOG and you banish rheumatism. The left illustration shows
how your colon becomes clogged. Acids from the decaying food waste
poison the blood stream, which affects every important organ in your body.
Regular bowel movements are no guarantee of safety. It is the encrustations
that must be removed. The right illustration shows the colon cleared by
COLOSEPTIC. All clogging waste has been removed, incomplete evacuation
is remedied because life has been restored to the walls and the basic cause
of rheumatic affections has been swept away.
Zf)
Unclogged
Colon.
AT ALL
CHEMISTS
Individual
Size . . 2/9
Family
Size . . 5/6
FREE—Liberal Sample of COLOSEPTIC. Mail the coupon for a free
trial sample of COLOSEPTIC. You'll receive it by return mail and. in addition, an interesting book
telling you more about the vital and intimate subject of autoxima will be sent to you—FREE.
CLEANNESS
-INTERNAL
* m
BETTER
»
$B.
mm
1C
-Ss
wsai
AIDS NUTRITION
HEALTH
SELF -POISONING
CHECKS
COM BAT 5
ACIDITY
BUILDS
% V° . o'
liam Bethune, o'f Canterbury (both now de-
ceased), who fell in battle May 1, 1915.
I thank God for the gift of a perfect
brother.
To the dear memory of Lieutenant Bide-
ford, Ist Battalion, A.1.F., only son of Mr.
and Mrs. J. F. Bideford, of Hornsby, killed
in action June 7, 1915.
You were our pride. We dreamed such
things for you!
God intervened —and so the dream came
true.
Terry made a point of reading the
casualty lists. An early one brought the
news that he had lost a friend, for under
Killed in Action was the name Captain
J P. Lalor, 12th Battalion.
Poor little Lalor!
They had met in Melbourne when
Terry was preparing for a fight. Over
from Perth, where he was in the Perma
nent Forces, Lalor had visited Terry’s
training quarters with a mutual acquaint-
ance, and they had become pals.
He was only a bantam, this grandson
of the famous Peter: though spry and
active anything but a fighting man to
look at. His features were small and
delicate. But in these matters appear-
ances could be deceptive. One of
the gamest pugs Terry had ever known
had a receding chin, and the most arrant
cur he could remember had a jaw sug-
gestive of South Head.
He had read somewhere that someone
was a “fiery particle”—the expression
had stuck in his mind, though he had
forgotten the name. Well, that was what
Lalor was: a “fiery particle.” Though
not in Terry’s way, a fighter from the
ground up.
Young as he was, he had lived an
adventurous life. He had fought in a
revolution in Mexico or somewhere, and
had served in the Foreign Legion.
“What was it like in the Foreign
Legion?” Terry had asked.
“Pretty multy. Nothing like that pic-
ture of it in the school poem—l suppose
you had to learn it, too:
A soldier of the Legion lay dying in Algiers;
There was lack of women’s nursing, there was
dearth of women’s tears.
“Any amount of marching, but very
little scrapping. Hot as blazes, too. I
was glad to get away from the blasted
country; but I left a bit of Australia
behind. Taught some of the soldiers of
the Legion two-up.”
Before they parted Lalor showed Terry
a weapon, nearly as big as himself: “the
Sword of the Lalors,” he called it. “It’s
been round the world with me,” he said,
“and if ever I have to fight for Aus-
tralia I will carry it into action.”
Terry hoped, for Lalor’s sake, that in
the last scene it came to cut and thrust.
That was the way the little captain would
have wanted to go out. But now he was
gone ; and perhaps some mangy Turk or
Arab had the Sword of the Lalors.
The very next casualty list published
brought a sharper regret to Terry, for
in.it he read that Lieutenant G. W. Wil-
braham, Ist Battalion, was dead “of
wounds.”
George Walker Wilbraham! He and
Terry had been cobbers ever since the
day their church school teams played
football and Terry laid George out.
They were front-row forwards, and had
given and taken sly little blows, con-
tinuing to punch after they had been
cautioned. Stung by one in the stomach,
Terry had lifted an uppercut which
landed fair on George’s nose and nearly
broke it.
Blood poured from the damaged organ.
The owner, however, only grinned and
said to Terry “That was a peach of a
punch, boy.”
The pair were sent off, Terry support-
ing George, who was groggy, though still
gay. In the dressing-room Terry applied
a wet towel to the back of the stricken
youth’s neck till the bleeding stopped.
Sitting side by side in the pavilion,
they saw the match out, and were friends
from that time forth.
George’s father was a builder in a big
way; and, when old enough, the son
was taken into the business. The father
was also a Liberal M.L.A. Though he
dropped his aitches, he had a native
talent for invective and repartee of a
rough sort; but his heir laughingly pro-
tested that the old pot’s best things were
never reported.
For example, his retort to that yap-
ping interjector Tom Finnerty. “You,"
said Mr. Wilbraham, fixing Mr. Finnerty
with his glittering eye—“when you were
born they saved the wrong thing.”
Terry had been an occasional visitor
to the Wilbraham house. The first time
he went there the son mischievously con-
ducted him into what the father called
his “library,” which was adorned with
huge steel engravings of Celebrated His-
torical Scenes—Passage of the Boyne,
Relief of Londonderry, Ginkel at
Aughrim and the like. Knowing George
by this time, Terry took it in good part.
“Dad,” George said at dinner ; “I’ve
been showing Terry your pictures.”
“Aye?” his parent replied grimly.
“Then I trust he’ll profit by them.”
Though in Terry’s presence he was
always the stern father, it wasn’t difficult
to detect that he idolised the lad.
And now George was dead, and his
home desolate.
That night Terry dipped into a book
on the Crimean War that Jack Burke
had lent him.
“I want you to read John Bright’s
speeches,” Jack Burke said; “they’re
wonderful.”
There was an officer who had gone to
the Crimea just as Lalor and Wilbraham
had gone to Gallipoli.
The stormy Euxine is his grave; his wife
is a widow, his children fatherless.
Crimea and Gallipoli; Euxine and
ALgean —no great difference, though 60
years separated the campaigns. And the
Angel of Death was abroad throughout
many lands; in Australia also you might
“almost hear the beating of his wings.”
In the Crimea men died like flies
because the organisation was rotten.
Long after the troopships had brought
the survivors back, Bright suggested that
the soldiers they had left behind were
“forgotten except by their mothers.” Was
that the way of the warlike world? In
15, 20, 25 years, would only their
mothers remember the lads whose bones
were bleaching on the grim peninsula?
That old war must have made a pro-
found impression on Australians of the
period. Balaclavas, Sebastopols and
Inkermans were everywhere, and the
Crimean veterans that Terry could re-
member were treated with vast respect.
Turkey was then on out side, and Russia
was the Enemy.
“We backed the wrong horse,” said
Lord Salisbury. Were we backing the
right horse this time?
But there was a new spirit in the air.
The army in Gallipoli needed reinforce-
ments, and they were coming tens of
thousands strong. There were 10,526
enlistments in May, 12,505 in June and
36,575 in July—nearly 5000 more than
the number of A.I.F. men who embarked
in 1914.
The night Durkin boxed Jimmy Carrie
there were 14,000 people at the Coliseum,
and they seemed to be half volunteers.
It was a great night and a great fight,
though Durkin was too powerful for
Jimmy and played light when he had
that good-looking scapegrace going.
“What do you think Jimmy has done
with the monkey he got from the Durkin
fight?” Jack Burke groaned. “Taken it
out to the saleyards and bought Oyster
the steeplechaser. Oyster’s nearly as
old as Jimmy—almost qualified to vote.
And he’s no sounder than a cracked
bell.”
In his first and only race at Randwick
in the Carrie colors, green with a dash
of yellow, Oyster came in on three legs.
“Broke again!” said Jimmy to Jack
after the vet. had done his grim work.
{To be continued.)


REPRESENTING AUSTRALIA
“Lord Luvus” points the way:
As one deeply interested in maintain-
ing the fair name of this country and
keeping its credit high among the sister
nations, I desire to warn my fellow-
Australians against the consequences
that may ensue if, as has been lately sug-
gested, our painters are allowed, without
proper supervision, to retaliate on our
Canadian kinsmen for the exhibition of
pictures recently on tour in this country.
I am ready to admit that there are
close-fisted persons in this community as
well as open-handed citizens ; that palms
are greased and that there are individuals
to grease them; but I refuse to believe
there are hands two feet long, except,
perhaps, in a few abnormal cases. But
if we accept the evidence of at least one
of these pictures, it is quite normal and
natural in Canada to be possessed of
hands so large that they could not pos-
sibly pick the pockets even of the suit
Jim Gerald finds it necessary to wear
when he appears before the Tiv. foot-
lights.
Digital extremities of this magnitude
would no doubt be of advantage to the
1938 English Test team when it enters
Follow laws that contradict the
laws that govern natural pheno-
mena in Australia: The Thinker
(Australiensis).
the field to help Bradman produce the
centuries requisite to his next record,
but if it got about that the general popu-
lation was constructed in this way Aus-
tralian hands across
the sea would have
a painful significance
for foreign nations.
The Federal Gov-
ernment and private
enterprise are at
present toilsomely
engaged in building
up aerial communi-
cations with the
world from which
we are severed by so
many dreary miles of
ocean. There are all
sorts of difficulties in
the way, such as the
risk of infection
Should be re-
quested to pro-
duce their models.
from aerially imported microbes, but if
the impression got about that the skies
of Australia were as solid and as full
of foreign substance as Canadian painters
indicate is the case in their country no
intelligent aviator would dream of try-
ing to enter the Commonwealth except by
swimming. Blind flying is a dangerous-
enough occupation when the objects en-
countered are clouds of ordinary vapor-
ous composition, but skies full of what
looked like packing-cases or lumps of
decomposing animal tissue would daunt
the bravest pilot.
It has been firmly established by
Darwin and others that, unless a species
can adapt itself to its environment or
change it, it must perish. Australians
have adapted themselves so admirably to
their environment that they can live with
equal discomfort on the west coast of Tas-
mania, where the rainfall has been 400 in.
a year, and in the centre of the continent,
where the rainfall is conspicuous by its
absence, and has to be replaced by
bottled beer. The average Australian is
so conversant with his environment and
so convinced that it only varies within
certain ascertainable limits that he can
put his foot down on a city pavement,
a ploughed field or a Kosciusko snow-
drift with reasonable expectations of the
consequences. When he crosses a street
at peak times of traffic he does it with
a fifty-fifty assurance that he will get to
the other side in one piece ; and that is
all that can be reasonably expected.
With no other aid than his five senses an
Australian can conclude that the sky
of his native land is further away from
him than the nearest housetops ; that a
chair, generally speaking, is heavier than
a cushion stuffed with feathers, and -that
it is not as necessary to his well-being to
dodge an overripe egg at an election
as a cannon-ball. But judging by
some of these pictures it is quite other-
wise in Canada; our friends of the
sister Dominion, for instance, would
probably sooner be hit by a foreign
bullet than by one of their native snow-
balls.
The conclusion one is bound to come
to after studying the Canadian exhibition
is that, if it is a true representation of
conditions in that country, the inhabi-
tants must be an entirely new species,
capable of adapting themselves to an en-
Of advantage to 1938 English Test team.
vironment where there are no relation-
ships whatever, or, if there are, they
follow laws that contradict all the laws
of relationship that govern natural
phenomena in Australia. Evidently
the Canadians have a sixth sense
that tells them that to dive into a lake
even in midsummer would be suicidal
folly, or- there would be more broken
necks in the bathing season than there
are shark tragedies in Australia.
To communicate with a race so alien
to our own experience would be prac-
tically impossible, and to visit them for
Sundowner making his way with diffi-
culty through Australian landscape.
a holiday would require an immense
amount of preparation, for the visitor
would be confronted with problems far
stranger than Wells visualised when he
sent a band of hypothetical human
beings to the moon. We have far more
exact information about the moon than
we have about the Canada depicted in
this exhibition.
In view of the importance of inter-
imperial relations, if it is decided to send
a collection of Australian pictures to
Quebec, the artists should first be sub-
jected to a rigorous cross-examination by
a body of experts. If they submit por-
traits of our fair womanhood with faces
the hues of ripe tomatoes and chins like
Jack Hulbert’s, they should be respect-
fully requested to produce their models.
This is a perfectly logical proceeding.
If a Trade Commissioner were sent to
Quebec he would be expected to be cap-
able of distinguishing between a female
face and a tomato.
If this is not done the Canadians are
likely to get the impression that we Aus-
tralians are a mixed population of dwarfs
and dolicocephalic giants who walk
about bumping their heads against skies
of corrugated iron in a landscape where
hills and trees are made of the same
material. This would be as bad for trade
as it would be for Imperial sentiment.
ANCIENT INNS
(BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.)
FOR some time in the latter half
of last year numerous contributors
to The Bulletin were discussing
the names of hostelries and taverns
in Sydney, Melbourne and other parts
.of the Commonwealth, and some quaint
titles of licensed premises existing in by-
gone years came to light.
Recently, whilst searching in Sydney’s
Mitchell Library for some information
quite different from the existence of
public-houses with queer names, the writer
read through the issue of the “Sydney
Gazette” of April 19, 1817, and chanced
upon what he believes to be the earliest
printed list of the hostelries of New
South Wales, which, of course, with the
exception of Van Diemen’s Land, was
all East Australia in the second decade
of the nineteenth century.
Sydney had 52, Parramatta 12, Wind-
sor four, Liverpool three and Castle-
reagh, near the present Penrith (N.S.W.),
one. The population of Sydney at this
time was 6695, of Parramatta 2749 and
of the whole province 15,175. There was
no pub at all at Newcastle, which then
was a very small and primitive convict
settlement best known as “the Coal
River.” Here is an almost complete
list, beginning with Sydney, together
with the names of the licensees. In
four instances the pub titles are not
recorded:
The Green Man, by John Tindall;
The Rose, Thomas Collicott; The Cherry
Tree, Isaac Moss; Saint Patrick, Edward
McDermott; The Red Lion, John James ;
Cat and Fiddle, Daniel Cubitt; Gov-
ernor King, Andrew Fraser ; The Bunch
of Grapes, Sarah Rickards; The
Feathers, Charles Clarke; The Bull’s
Head, Miles Fieldgate; King George,
William Kempton ; Labour in Vain, Ann
Whittaker; Crown and Thistle, James
Chisholm ; The Blacksmith’s Arms, Wil-
liam Davis ; The Dog and Duck, Andrew
McGuigan ; The Foul Anchor, Edward
Redmond; The King’s Arms, William
Roberts; The King’s Head, Samuel
Fowler; The Windmill, James Vander-
comb; Hope and Anchor, Patrick
Cullen; The Punch Bowl, Stafford Lett;
Speed the Plough, Mary Plowright; The
Bee Hive, Ferdinand Meurant; The
Bunch of Grapes (2), Joseph Inch ; St.
Patrick, Stephen Murphy ; Duke of Wel-
lington, William Walsh ; The Greyhound,
Sarah Hazard; The Punch Bowl (2),
Thomas Wilford ; Adam and Eve, Sarah
Packer ; Saint George, Thomas Laycock ;
The Bee Hive (2), Japhet White; The
Westmoreland Arms, Esther Bradley;
The Pine Apple, Nathaniel Lawrence ;
The Black Swan, Richard Palmer; The
New Zealander, Benjamin Morris ; The
Horse and Jockey, James Wild; The
Golden Fleece, John Laurie ; The Green
Gate, Thomas Hanson ; The Blue Lion,
William Brand; The Lord Nelson,
Joseph Salter; The Robin Hood, Francis
Whitney ; Saint Paul’s, Ann Cooper ; The
Unicorn, James Byrne; The Grapes,
Samuel Terry; -—, Henry Marr; The
Chelsea Pensioner, William Ikin ; ,
Elizabeth Cassidy; The Hope and Anchor
(2), Phoebe Tunstall; The Good Woman,
Richard Calcott; Lord Nelson’s Victory,
Henry Henry; The Pot of Beer, William
Kennedy; The Bunch of Grapes (3),
Mary Dyer.
In Parramatta The Freeman’s Arms
was kept by James Larra ; The Thatched
House, John Piesley ; The Hawkesbury
Settler, Andrew Nash ; The Red Cow,
Charles Walker; The Lord Nelson,
Robert Cable ; The Bird in Hand, John
Ellison ; , Thomas Barker ; ,
William Shewin; The Struggler, John
Lang; The Rose and Crown, Thomas
Pierce; The Glasgow Arms, John
Stephenson ; Half-way House to Parra-
matta, Elizabeth Powell.
Windsor got on with four —The Mac-
quarie Arms, by Phillip Russell; The
Royal Oak, William Baker; The Red
Lion, Thomas Dargan; The Lord
Nelson, Charles Beasley. Liverpool’s
three were —The Crooked Billet, Samuel
Pugh ; The Hope, Matthew Pears ; The
Half-way House to Liverpool, Wil-
liam Roberts. Castlereagh’s well-named
tavern was The First and Last, kept by
Charles Hadley.
There were three brewing licenses in
1817, held by Nathaniel Lawrence and
Thomas Rushton in Sydney, and by John
Jones at Parramatta. None of this trio
had such an advertisement as James
Squire, Australia’s first brewer, re-
ceived when a tombstone in St. John’s
churchyard at Parramatta was inscribed
with —
All ye who would lie here
Drink Squire’s beer.
Of all the Sydney inns mentioned,
only three names, so far as the writer
knows, are still in existence —The King’s
Head, The Lord Nelson and The Green
Gate.
Spending the Felton Coin.
“F.S.” suggests:
Instead of spending the vast sums ac-
cumulated under the Felton Bequest by
Vic. Nat. Gallery on Old Masters at
enormously inflated prices, there is a
simple, cheap and effective way in which
the gallery could be made outstanding.
, Why don’t they buy replicas of Rodin’s
statuary? Rodin is now acknowledged
as the greatest sculptor since the Greeks,
and a comprehensive collection of his
best works in replica could be obtained
for comparatively little money. Why,
too, have we not a complete set of
replicas of the Greek sculpture?
If we want to see what the Greeks did
we have to go down to the State Theatre,
where there are some beautiful examples,
in perfect reproduction, but so badly
lighted that sometimes the Venus over
the proscenium arch seems to be wear-
ing stockings. These replicas can be
obtained in Europe for next to nothing,
and some of them could replace the
dreadful Jaeger works which disfigure the
front lawn, and which are not statues at
all but cartoons in three dimensions
which the late Will Dyson would have
regarded as commonplace.
The rest could be housed in the
Museum, and the dreadful stuffed molly-
hawks and elephants could be relegated
to the University, where they would be
of use to scientific workers and would not
offend the eyes and nostrils of the visitor
to the gallery. Phar Lap ought to be
kept. He could have his neck bent and
be put on the lawn as if he were grazing.


v
Kidney Trouble
gone offer years of
suffering.
m
s m
“For many years I
suffered with my kid-
neys and was unsuc-
cessful in finding a
remedy that would
give relief until I
commenced taking
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills, which gave
wonderful relief and
cured me of dreadful
backache.” — Mrs. F.
Hadley, Brighton St.,
Richmond, V.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills end Kidney
Trouble and Backache in double-
quick time. In less than 24 hours
after taking them you will begin to
feel better.
f
Backache quickly relieved
by taking
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
Nature has an un-
mistakable way of
letting us know
when our kidneys
are weak and in-
flamed and need
assistance. It
causes them to
ache and we suffer
from what is com-
monly known as
Backache or Pains
in the sides.
BACKACHE
I
r
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are specially made to
assist weak kidneys and can be relied upon
to remove inflammation, dissolve uric acid,
and tone up vour entire system.
You must face facts!
It’s your Kidneys
which cause your
Rheumatism . , . !
It’s no use avoiding the issue by gaining
temporary relief from Rheumatism with
powders or external rubbing. These do un-
doubtedly bring temporary relief, but ... to
permanently end Rheumatism you must get
right down to the root of the trouble.
Nine times out of ten it’s your Kidneys
which are at fault. They are permitting im-
purities to escape into the blood streams, and
this is where your Rheumatism begins.
Correct your Kidneys by taking Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills —the leading Kidney
Tonic sold in Australia. Gin Pills will
filter the impurities from your blood streams
and no matter how long you have suffered
from Rheumatism they will soon bring you
permanent relief.
if 3FSHELDON’S
GIN PILLS
FOR THE RID N E ?S
:
Says: "Gin Pills
have benefited
myself, wife and
two grown-up
children."
“I am sending this testi-
monial to let you kno'A
how wonderfully your Gii
Pills have benefited myself,
wife and two grown-up
children. We
have found
them excellent
for Backache
and Rheuma-
tism, and have
been free from
illness ever
since we had
Gin Pills in
our Medicine
Chest.” — Mr. G. Christie, Gilbert Street, Gil-
berton, S.A.
Thousands of testimonials such as this one
and the fact that over 3,000,000 Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills were sold last year
are convincing proof that Gin Pills do end
Backache, Rheumatism and other forms
of Kidney Trouble.
m
....
Take 2 Pills to-night-
you'll feel better
to-morrow.
HIDDEN DANGER
Few of us realise the hidden danger that exists
if weak and inflamed kidneys are neglected.
Uric acid and other impurities, if allowed
cxv
cx
to collect in the
system, quickly be-
gin their work of
des t r u ction. Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills
will quickly remove
all inflammation
from the Kidneys—
will strengthen them
and help them resume
their normal func-
tion. Uric acid will
be expelled from the
system and dreaded diseases avoided. Immense
sales for over 30 years. Insist on the genuine
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
2i
Pills
--1/9
60
Pills
-■2/9
Sales.
immense
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONI
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
JS5=-
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/* (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
>
v, v
\ •*
. f\ vl© # -.r.e
* c °
$S
*P
v>
**
<e<
VP*
0°
s 0
*v
-<•*
oO vl
a 9 e
jt $< f#V^ v ot
, <^ x :
otf \°


and now for the
Cf/Ct^mu
DETAIL
U I L T
RECEIVERS
33 brilliant models! A 1938 range which again makes TASMA the greatest name in
Australian radio! Priced for every purse . . . styled for every purpose . . . equipped for perfect
reception at any point on the Commonwealth map . . . the new Tasma receivers reach peak
again. Mantel receivers and consoles—dual-wave all-world and broadcast receivers—electric,
battery and vibrator operated—SEE THEM! See—hear—and compare . . . your immediate
choice will be a Tasma!
tf
“ n
INTRODUCING THE TASMA
MODEL "530' '—The Tasma ‘’Princess’' is the most luxurious receiver in the medium
priced field to-day—it is the leader in the 1938 Tasma range. It brings you, through ar
exceptional 6-valve dual-wave circuit, all the thrills of overseas reception, in addition to anj
programme you may select from Australia’s 125 principal broadcast stations.
Features include Variable Selectivity (giving extended tonal range from all stations), Instan
taneous Tuning, Tasma-perfected Air Trimmers, Tasma-perfected Automatic Volume Control
Magic Eye for accurate station selection, and a host of others our distributors will be pleasec
to explain and demonstrate.
35 Guineas.
Tasma “585” Five-valve Dual-wave Battery Receiver »35 Guinea
Also Vibrator-operated Model 40 Guineas
m
m
m
:
: m
i* s'>
;
f '... %
zmsm
ft
INTRODUCING THE TASM A
Countess ”
MODEL "520"— We are justly proud of the 6-valve Countess —an outstanding
nstrument, not only from the standpoint of appearance and quality, but because flawless
technical design gives it a standard of performance never before achieved. The neces-
sity for overcoming the problem of interference, whistles, etc., inspired the release of
:his new model. The “520” gives effortless reception of all Australian States, and
includes a wealth of features exclusive to TASMA. We invite you to play it in your
own home. Its performance is astounding!
29 Guineas.
Tasma 580 Five-valve Broadcast Battery Receiver -------------- 31 Guineas
Vibrator-operated Model - - ---------------36 Guineas
“Baby ”
INTRODUCING THE TASMA
Tasma eclipses all previous achievements by the introduction of new edition
of the famous Tasma Baby Receiver. Extensively improved, and incorporating
many new features, this popular Tasma makes its appearance this year in a
well-designed and exceptionally sturdy Bakelite cabinet, with outstanding
acoustic properties. Exacting tests have revealed that the Tasma Baby
possesses not only uncanny distance-getting ability, but extraordinarily realistic
reproduction. It is the only mantel model with a large edgelit glass dial.
MODEL “505” —-5-valve A.C. Broadcast 16 Guineas
MODEL “510” —5-valve A.C. Dual Wave All-world ------ 19 Guineas
MODEL “575” —4-valve Battery-operated. Complete ----- 19 Guineas
Prices slightly higher in West Australia.
’Mm
111
DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA. HARTLEYS PTY., LTD., 270
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
John Hallway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street,
North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
SOUTH AUST . OLIVER J. NILSEN & CO-
LTD., 64 Ciawler Place, Adelaide.
TASMANIA; NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY,
LTD., 36 Argyle Street, Hobart; and 59
George Street, Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: CARLYLE & CO.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND; NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY),
LTD., 197 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
(Wholesale Distributors.)
G. J. GRICE, LTD., 90-92 Queen Street,
Brisbane; Rockhampton and Cairns.
DARLING DOWNS: ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD., Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
A Product of THOM AND SMITH PTY.. LIMITED, 29-39 Botany Road. Mascot
