

The
Metropolitan Building,
Cor. Hunter & Bligh Sts.,
Sydney.
:
i
m
mm
-
\
8
l
i
» J
l IrnMi
I
.... *"*'*•"• ■"**' ■
gJaf" * |
"'/.•.'' ’ ■'
'• ' %
i
nt
- -miff
£§*2
Payments to
Policyholders
Exceed
£1,381,550.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Queensland in 1895, the Australian Metropolitan is one of the old-
established Life Offices. It has over 40 years of faithful service to the public
behind it, and has earned a reputation for its liberal and sympathetic treatment of
policyholders.
Income in 1937 was £352,784/11/10.
At the end of 1937 the Assets were made up as follows:
Government and Municipal Securities
Loans on Mortgage . .
Freehold Properties
Loans on Policies
Cash and other Assets
58.95 per cent.
15.98 „
14.20 „
6.30 „
4.57 „
a
a
a
ASSURANCE FUNDS at 31/12/’37, £1,608,044.
DIRECTORS: DR. A. MURRAY WILL (Chairman), W. A. H. ALLWORTH, D. F. STEWART, J. A. HENDERSON, F. J. EATON.
GENERAL MANAGER: J. A. HENDERSON. GENERAL SECRETARY: FREEMAN J. EATON. ACTUARY: W. R. DAY, F.I.A.
BRANCH OFFlCES—Victoria: THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 89-91 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Queensland: THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 367-9 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
South Australia: 22 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3037.
Thursday, April 28, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to: —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
A YOUNG FASCIST PLAYWRIGHT.
The subtlety of Fascist propaganda and its wide-
spread ramifications make it most urgently necessary
for the writer to-day to proclaim his political align-
ment in no uncertain terms. Let him state his faith
and his art will take care of itself. How essential,
for example, was Archibald Macleish’s recent verse-
play against Fascism is demonstrated by A Shop-
keeper in Vienna, another verse-play by a young
writer with the most dangerous leanings towards
Fascism.
A Shopkeeper in Vienna is a cunning book. It
makes not a single direct mention of Fascism. But
the implications are there for all to read. The open-
ing, for instance, made in the significantly reactionary
form of a soliloquy, with the hero reading out a letter
to a friend:
Business is all to hell; the lender, Jew,
Forecloses to-morrow. Now if ever I need
Help, but I touch no wings away but death.
While thus he paves the way for action, the
implication being that the financial chaos of the State
calls for Fascism, the actors of a sub-plot find a
similar dissatisfaction in the times, and, lacking the
vision of a new world, hover in despair on the brink
of a violence attested by the staccato, machine-gun-
like rhythms:
The moonlight in the park is sweet,
Loll now, my pigeon. Moon and imagined music
Ambush our ears. No time for that. Decay
Is over us and our time, closed in with grossness.
The friend to whom the spineless shopkeeper has
appealed comes to his assistance and promises him
all the aid that organised hooliganism can provide.
There is to be a court case over the foreclosure of
the mortgage—in the true Fascist tradition of acting
under a smokescreen of legality—and the friend, with
a sublime disregard for the processes of law, orates:
Dark Orpheus, mover of the fixed stones,
Lights in the cottage windows, floods in Kent,
Masters the times now with a blast of brass.
My youthful and unhandled colts —O wanton —
You shall perceive them make a mutual stand.
Mounting in savagery as this blatant attack on
Jew, worker and common justice alike marches to
its shabby conclusion wherein a biased Court, actu-
ally held up to admiration, allows the shopkeeper to
be saved for his gangster friends by a woman’s shabby
pettifoggery, the piece reveals its true nature in this
masterpiece of racial invective against the money-
lender: —
Wolfish, bloody, starved and ravenous, this
Man makes me waver, Marx is dead;
Wiser in howling streets, Pythagoras
While bonfires flag the wind more splendid red
Says that this currish spirit was a wolf,
No human soul.
If further proof were needed of the real aim of
this unpleasant drama, it is readily discerned by a
study of the treatment of the masses, who appear
throughout as buffoons and clowns, the dupes and
slaves of the principals. It must have taken a truly
magnificent arrogance to imagine a servant, dimly
scenting unusual movements afoot, unable to express
himself except in this gibberish:
And they have conspired together; I will not say
you shall not see a mask, but if you do it was not for
nothing my nose bled on Black Monday at six in the
morning, only it was Ash Wednesday in the afternoon.
This, taken from its context, is puzzling, but the
intention of deriding the masses is clear.
Possibly it would clarify the whole matter to
point out that the voung Fascist author of the piece
is William Shakspeare. And that the slightly modern-
ised but essentially accurate quotations from “The
Merchant of Venice” prove either that the bard was
a very downy bird who should certainly be banned or
that the political approach to art is the silliest of all
the contemporary shibboleths.
Dots and Tigers.
There’s an old argument as to whether the best
books about foreign countries are written by the
visitor, who sees everything as fresh and exciting, or
by the local resident, who knows the land intimately.
Usually the visitor with his facile generalisations —
“Australians eat too much meat,” “Maorilanders eat
too few oranges,” “I saw little evidence of thistle-
eating in the Highlands”—is the better entertainer, but
he never tells the full story ; unseen by him there is
always a vegetarian lurking in a corner, a completely
orange-minded Maorilander, or, not improbably, a
Scot who does live on thistles.
The local inhabitant, giving a far more thorough
picture, tends to become dull, as R. H. Mottram did
in his recent Success to the Mayor, writing about
things that interest him but not the reader:
Now where I used to play with Georgie Jorrocks
in the back of his father’s butchery, the locomotives
pant and chug. Such is progress.
Hans Koester, whose Jugoslavia Hale has pub-
lished with 60 fine photographs, is the best type of
tourist; necessarily on the superficial side, he has
managed to get some of the genuine flavor of the
country into his book. He doesn’t follow Aldous
Huxley’s method of going to India to write a book
about Aldous Huxley, nor H. V. Morton’s appalling
trick of burying Scotland under a cloud of banality
about H. V. Morton and soup. He writes, quite
simply, about Jugoslavia. It is almost a guidebook.
But he feels things deeply and delicately, and the
book tastes charmingly of old stone, old wars, quiet
husbandry and the waves of the Adriatic.
A tendency towards overwriting—cattle marching
“like unalterable truths” through the streets of Bel-
grade—is a minor fault, and an enthusiastic use of
dots is another. Though he’s not a Morton to use
his three dots to lead you hastily away from a weak
pun (dotless this would be an example...) he is the
sort of intellectual one meets in highbrow English
quarterlies writing:
I opened the window. How black were the chimney-
pots . . . The rain beat into my soul . . .
And he uses the romantic dots that appear in South
Seas or Venetian love stories, like this:
How softly the wavelets lapped against the boat!
The stars were like white fire. Her little hand was so
cold, dot, dot, dot.
That trick, really, indicates the limitations of the
tourist. Unable to write a whole book about Ragusa,
he covers it in a brief chapter, closing with three dots
to act as stepping-stones to realms of ineffable con-
templation.
A book that has no need to be dotty in that
way, and which is as good a production by the local
inhabitant as Koester’s is for a tourist, is Lillian Ash-
by’s My India, done up in purple by Michael Joseph.
Far from being a tourist, she is as much an Indian
as third-generation Australians are Australians. She
•and her mother and her mother’s parents were all
born in India, and her autobiography, from the point
of view of one who loves India, and to whom India
is home, reveals a totally different world from that
depicted by globetrotting Aldous Huxleys, or by the
colonels who retire to. Kensington to swear at the
servants, write their reminiscences and furnish Low
with cartoon-fodder. . .
For the colonels who retire to Maoriland, inci-
dentally, the Tourist Department issues a special pam-
phlet requesting them not to swear at the Maoris;
but Mrs. Ashby played with natives all her childhood,
spoke their language more naturally than her own,
and regards them perfectly naturally as human beings.
Her India in the early chapters is curiously like Aus-
tralia ; superficially because of heat, snakes and in-
sects, but fundamentally because it is the story of
British people going out to a new land, not to exploit
it and retire to England, but to master it and live in
it. Her grandfather, hacking a home out of the jungles
of Bengal and breeding elephants for sale, might have
been any Australian pioneer.
But with her father’s elephants enters the touch
of fantasy that marks the difference between Aus-
tralian and Indian colonial days. The incident in
her childhood, when two cobras swayed in her bed-
room while she played “Home, Sweet Home ’ over
and over again in terror on her mouth-organ, might
be paralleled by Australian snake stories; but her
gruesomely thrilling account of a fight between a tiger
and a crocodile is something new; and when she tells
of the time when the servants stored her husband s
food in boxes that had been used to carry bubonic-
plague corpses to the funeral pyre; or when a native
walked on to her verandah carrying on a bamboo
pole the newly-severed heads of his wife and her
lover; or when she saw a mother of 16 years, who
had come to the Ganges with a sacrificial kid as a
thank offering for the birth of a son, throw the child
by mistake into the river to be torn to pieces; or
when she saw a child suckling its mother in the
market-place, wagging a tail, she moves in a world
fantastically different from the Australian scene.
There are plenty of humorous incidents to balance
the cruel and horrible stories, and Mrs. Ashby accepts
the latter so naturally that the reader does too. But
into what a delirium of dots would India drive Mr.
Koester...
Globetrotters.
The tag about travel broadening the mind can
be passed out. Travel does not broaden the mind ,
it hardens the heart; and the chief pleasure of globe-
trotting is to come home and corner some shrinking
innocent and bore him to death with a long rigma-
role about all the tedious things seen and done in
foreign parts.
“We went to Rome. Rome! We didn t see
Mussolini, but the cathedral was marvellous. Then
we went .to Naples. See Naples and die, they say.
The cathedral was marvellous, and it was awfully
funny not being able to speak Italian. 1 think it
was in Spitzbergen that the view was so marvellous,
but it might have been the cathedral. And, fancy!
we met the Murgatroyds from Mosman, and not
one of us could speak Spitz. We all screamed!”
It is to the credit of most g.ts. that they confine
themselves to newspaper interviews, which needn’t
be read, or to conversations from which one can
easily escape by hitting them with a chair or a bottle ;
but far too frequently the more confirmed among
them inflict a book on the public. There was a
gentleman named Carpenter who published his world
travels in twelve huge volumes, largely devoted to
the retailing of such exciting information as that in
parts of Australia they grow wheat, and that in
China, curiously enough, dwell large numbers of
Chinese.
Of almost equal vim, regrettably, is Ada Gals-
worthy’s Over the Hills and Far Away (Hale). It is
a record of her travels with John Galsworthy, and,
though it is carefully written, as a saga it is about as
stirring as sago. Like any other tourist, she stands
on a mountain-top and then gives a futile description
of it:
Grape juice fresh from the fruit can be had every-
where; it is a refreshing drink. The best grapes near
Merano grow on a hilltop which divides the main
valley and the Passeier valley—the Kuchelberg —it runs
high above the town and parallel with it. Along the
side of this hog’s back has been cut a very pleasant
pathway, and to pace along it of a fine afternoon brings
one nearer the peace that passes understanding. WaiKS
in general are many and delightful.
Only an extremely patient hiker could tackle
250 pages of that sort of thing, and it breeds the
conviction that all boring travel-writers should be
condemned to spend eternity looking at other people s
photograph albums. And that is a pity, because
this author seems a nice sort of person and because
if only she had concentrated on Galsworthy she
might have written a really interesting book. For
example, it is entertaining to know that someone once
wrote to Galsworthy:
Sir, your account of Lichfelder in the “Daily Mail
is damned rot and untrue, there was no such person,
and only 1 suicide ever committed. You’re worthy
of the liar who told you, ass of the first water.
But there are few such anecdotes. Nearly all
of it is a faintly waggish monologue about mountains.
There are, of course, travellers and travellers.
One’s own experiences, for instance, though singu-
larly unappreciated by the parochial-minded oafs of
one’s circle of acquaintances, are never boring. Two
of the “and travellers” class are George Digby and
Barbara Board, George’s Goose-Feathers not
“horse-feathers” being presented by Collins and
Barbara’s badly-named News-Girl in Egypt by
Michael Joseph.
A mildly impertinent blurb about George s wan-
derings, after trumpeting him in Japan, China, India
and Ceylon, declares that “the scene changes to New
Guinea, where Mr. Digby as a journalist is investi-
gating the abuses of the Australian mandate” ; but
an investigation of the investigation reveals that he
hurls the brickbats not at the present Administration
but at the board that dispossessed the German
colonists in 1920.
Digby’s career began in Ceylon, where as a
seventeen-year-old tea-planter he thrashed his coolies
to uphold the British raj and punish them for beating
their wives. After that he meets the usual likeable
adventurers and lunatics-with-a-past of the tropics and
the story has the usual tarry excitement.
Miss Board most of the time is not a “news-
girl” but just an ordinary tourist who pokes about
the sarcophagus chambers in the pyramids and is
annoyed at the tourists who poke about the sar-
cophagus chambers in the pyramids. In these
moments she is not merely boring but inflicts her
peevishness on the reader (“Abdul dragged me off
to another mosque in spite of my blistered heel”), and
since she can’t write as well as Mrs. Galsworthy
(neither can Digby) she nearly manages to make a
very bad book of it. But she went to live with a
native family, and distils from them a most authentic
flavor of superstition, drug-slavery, curious vices,
crime, dirt and human kindness.
She tells a bright story about snobbery in Khar-
toum. Meeting a solitary Englishwoman in the un-
fashionable midsummer, she remarked that the lady
must be about the only officer’s wife left in Khar-
toum.
“The only senior officer’s wife,” said the female icily.
Of the three travellers Digby is the best enter-
tainer, Miss Board next, and Mrs, Galsworthy (again,
a pity) a bad third.
Walpole's Little Worries.
J. B. Priestley let a significant cat out of the bag
when he showed peevishness because his novels were
not regarded as literature with a capital “L.” Now
Hugh Walpole—who hasn’t done so badly as far as
public recognition is concerned—admits inferentially
to one or two tender places.
His new book of short stories, Head in Green
Bronze (Macmillan), is dedicated “with love” to
George Cukor, who is also the addressee of a pre-
fatory letter that might better have been sent him
through the post.
Walpole complains to Cukor that “in these days
if you write a very serious short story, probably
gloomy and full of atmosphere, you are instantly
compared to Chekhov and there is an end.” He goes
on to say that personally he agrees with H. G. Wells,
who once said that a short story should entertain for
anything between fifteen and fifty minutes, and can
be about whatever you like. He then mentions some
outstanding short-story writers of the present day,
Bates and Coppard among them, and thinks they are
“grand.” “I don’t pretend to be with those masters,
but I do think that some of these stories are enter-
taining, and I don’t care who says nay.”
He ends with a toot on his own trumpet. After
referring to some “excellent” novels of his that are
now forgotten, “alas!” he says: “These stories have
insisted on surviving. Fifteen years after their first
appearance people say, ‘By the way, there is a story
of yours I read once.... ’So here they are.”
But did anyone ever compare Walpole to Chek-
hov? Or is he complaining at being excluded from
the comparison as a penalty for eschewing gloom?
And has anyone ever attempted to controvert Wells’s
generalisation? The trouble with the stories in Head
in Green Bronze is that though they run the required
“fifteen to fifty minutes” they don’t “entertain” ; they
drag. Every time Walpole starts a story he seems to
reach for as much paper as if he were beginning a
novel. Never a succinct writer, he seems unable to
achieve the swift movement of the short story.
“The German” is a ponderous gambol after an
English family’s dachshund pup which is suspected of
entertaining Nazi views but whose character is eventu-
ally discovered to be blameless. An amusing notion,
but calling for a nimbler technique. “The Exile” is
a story of a handsome old English actor who earns
a precarious living as a Hollywood extra and dreams
of returning to the scenes of his boyhood in Cumber-
land. Instead of going back when a small stroke of
luck puts him in the way of doing so he goes on a
(Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — always.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
df
WALTHER
Walther Model No. 1
Automatic Repeating
and Single Shot Rifle.
Length of barrel
bead fore sight, with
standard two-leaf rear
sight, walnut stock, top
slide, safety, all metal
parts well blued.
Weight s^lb.
Price £9/10/-
Walther Model No.
2. barrel,
with wind gauge and
lateral adjustment.
Weight 71b.
Price .... £lO/5/-
-PRECISIOM^H
BUILT FOR
DEADLY ACTION
59
m
by,
J*
m
/
TO
English Hammerless
QUAIL GUNS
1 15/133 —20-gauge English Hammerless
Gun, 30in. steel barrels, nitro proved,
left choke, right modified. -Made by Fred.
Williams, Birmingham. A good light,
strong gun. Price £l4/10/-
Progress Sale Price £l2/10/-
12 Gauge D.8.8.L. Hammerles's Gun
1 15/121 —Made by W. W. Greener, stamped J. V.
Needham. 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun,
30in. or 32in. barrels, both, choke, treble wedge,
fast crosbolt, the strongest breech action, nitro
proved and chambered for 2fin. cartridges. Fully
guaranteed. Price , £2l
Progress Sale Price '. £l9
12 Gauge D.8.8.L. Hammer Gun
1 15/43 —Made by W. W. Greener,
stamped J. V. Needham. 12-gauge
D.8.8.L. Hammer Gun, bar lock, treble
wedge, fast crossbolt, rebounding ham-
mers, barrels 30in. or 32in., both choke,
chambered for 2 fin. cartridges.
Price £l5/10/-
Progress Sale Price £l4
A
.303 SPORTING RIFLES
115/156 —.303-calibre Sporting Rifles.
These rifles are the long Lee Enfield cut
down and reconditioned. Price, £5/15/-
.22 SINGLE SHOT RIFLES
I I 5/1 89 —.22-calibre ‘Sure Shot” Rifle, bolt
action, 20in. barrel. Price 25/-
II 5/ 189a— .22-calibre “Sportsman” Rifle, bolt
action, 24in. barrel, grooved forearm.
Price 35/-
11 5/ 189b— .22-calibre “Marksman” Rifle, bolt
action, 24in. barrel, tangent rear sigkt.
Price 40/-
B.S.A. MARTINI ACTION RIFLE
1 1 5/190 —.310 B.S.A. Martini Action Rifle, with
25 in. barrel; also the chamber can be altered to
take the .32 ordinary cartridge. These rifles have
been used by the military and are in perfect con-
dition. Wonderful value. Price . . . 57/6
Progress Sale Price 50/-
.22 Cal. MAUSER REPEATER
115/158 —.22-Calibre Mauser Repeating Rifle, model
4208 with wind gauge. Magazine holds five cartridges. Barrel
light model. Price £B/7/6
Progress Sale Price . £8
Barrel heavy model. Price £9/10/-
Browning Trombone Repeater
115/182 — Browning Trombone Repeating Rifle, .22-
calibre (15 short or 12 long, or 11 long-rifle). Will shoot these
different cartridges mixed. 22in. barrel. Exceptionally accurate.
Weight 51b. Price . £5/7/6
Progress Sale Price £5
II Guns—Lower Ground Floor , Pitt~street. Free Delivery
City and Suburbs only.
AMMUNITION
12-, 16-, 20-gauge Grand Prix Smokeless
Cartridges. Price per 100 19/6
12-gauge Ballastite 2Jin. Price 100 .... 22/-
12-gauge Ballastite 2gin. Price 100 26/-
26/20 and 32 Black Powder. Price 100 .. 17/-
25/20 and 32 Smokeless. Price 100 21/-
210 Cadet Smokeless. Price 100 19/6
22 Savage HI Power. Price 100 40/-
22 Savage Hornet. Price 100 21/6
303 Mark VI. Price 100 10/-
22 Short Smokeless. Price 100 2/9
22 Pong Smokeless. Trice 100 3/3
22 Pong Rifle. Price 100 3/9
BROWNING AUTO-LOADING
115/166 — Browning Auto-loading Rifle, solid breech,
hammerless, will fire rimfire .22-calibre long-rifle smokeless
cartridges, 20in. round barrel. Weight 4ilb. Magazine
holds eight cartridges. Price 957-
Progress Sale Price 90/-
As above, for .22 short; magazine holds 1 1 cartridges.
Price 957-
Progress Sale Price 90/-
22 Cal. MAUSER RIFLE
115/157 — .22-Calibre Mauser Rifle, model 3408,
single shot. The standard small-bore rifle for clubs.
barrel, with wind gauge. 7flb. weight. Price, £6/15/-
Progress Sale Price £5/17/6
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Men and Drought
WEATHER
by
E. MARY GURNEY
ILLUSTRATED
BY
M. LYNN GURNEY.
WHERE the narrow road
fell away suddenly in
steep and tortuous
curves to the vast basin
of the river valley, Van Dorp
drew rein and sat awhile brood-
ing. Behind him, the flat and
arid land reached out feature-
less hands that groped with blind impotence at the
feet of mountains hazed by heat to the unreality of
dreams.
Below, the flat bottom of the valley, barred and
patched with trees, was hazed, too, with heat and
smoke from the fires that had raged along the ranges.
The red light of the morning sun danced and quivered
over the wide shingle bed of the river, where no
trickle of water ran. Even the brackish pools were
long since dried quite away, even to the grey-green
scum that had edged the burning stones.
In the stagnant air the opposite, canyonlike rim
of the wide valley stood out starkly, with the flat
immensity of the ash-grey plains reeling back from
the sheer drop. Across the land, the dust went in
little spirals, beginning listlessly out of nothing, whirl-
ing in a sudden fury that mounted up and up, like
frenzied waterspouts, to burst as suddenly back to
nothingness.
For a long space horse and rider remained limned
against the hazed and brazen sky. Out of il a speck
swung slowly, wheeling in wide circles that gradually
diminished. For a little it seemed to hang on motion-
less pinions above horse and rider, then wheeled away
in increasing circles and was gone. On the rim of
the valley the horse drooped a little beneath the dead
weight of the man, whose bronzed face, ripening
towards middle-age, bore a mask of unaccus-
tomed grimness. A big man and strong, he sagged
now in the saddle as though momentarily spent, his
hands resting upon the haft of the axe that lay across
the saddle-bow.
Brooding there above the valley, there was in his
immobility a quality as sinister as the parched and arid
land. His deep eyes brooded upon the valley—that
upper reach of it where his farm nestled against the
far cliffs of the gorgelike valley.
Not even the Maoris could remember another
time like this, when all but the deepest springs had
ceased to flow. Not until these last ten days had Van
Dorp discovered that the deepest springs were not
upon his land. The one he had depended on was on
his neighbor’s land, not six yards from the boundary,
in the lower end of the dam he and Cook had con-
structed. Building it at the beginning of that summer
about the sedgy pool, they had not been sure where
the spring was; but there was no doubt about it
now . . .
Van Dorp’s gaze moved a little along the line of
thin-leafed willows that fringed the river, and
came to rest upon a grove where Lombardy poplars
stood up straightly, unstirring above the lifeless
willows. Beyond them, from a plantation of pines
rearing their gaunt, undaunted heads against the un-
heeding sky, a thin blue pillar of smoke mounted
unwaveringly up above the rim of the valley, where
it dispersed into leisurely nothingness.
Van Dorp shifted a little in the saddle, and his
hands tightened on the handle of the axe. That blue
unwavering column of smoke rose from the chimney
of Cook’s homestead. Cook, who had been some-
thing more than a good neighbor.
Odd, thought Van Dorp, that it should have taken
so many years —nearly half a dozen —to discover what
the man really was. Fidgeting always, and those light
eyes of his were like things pursued. His wife was a
jittering woman, with a perpetual nervous giggle and a
curious sidelong look that slid across her husband’s
face to other faces. His children were wary of him
even while they pestered him. Strange that until these
hours Van Dorp had missed the significance of these
things.
In the grove beyond the poplars cattle milled —
his cattle —cut off from the pool that bubbled from
the spring at the lower end of the dam.
Van Dorp moved again, a slight, almost flutter-
ing movement of his hands upon the axe. Impossible
to believe that during his absence forty-eight hours
before Cook could have done this thing: built that
huge post-and-rail fence across the width of the dam
—the gap that had been left, of tacit consent, to give
his beasts—or Cook’s —sure access to the water.
Forty-eight hours. As much for Cook as for
himself, he had taken that journey out to the rail-
head to make inquiries about pasture in the Wairarapa
beyond the belt of the drought, returning dead-beat
and defeated at nightfall to find his cattle cut off
from water.
NOT until they were face to face did the truth
dawn on him that Cook did not intend him to
have water.
“A man must look to his own,” said Cook, and
his eyes fled about like imprisoned beasts seeking
escape.
Even then Van Dorp had not been able to believe
it.
“There’s our agreement,” he said in his slow, care-
ful English.
Cook twisted a blade of grass round his restless
hands, and his eyes darted about it as moths round
a candle flame. “We didn’t foresee this, and the
agreement was only verbal, anyway.”
“Verbal?” echoed Van Dorp. Bewilderment
shadowed the eagerness of his face.
A dark flush washed over the brick-red of Cook’s
narrow face, and an ugly look came into the shallow
eyes.
“I’ve a wife and kids!” he blustered. “You’ve
no one but yourself.”
Van Dorp said gently: “I shall not want.” He
pulled a handful of change from his pocket and looked
at it thoughtfully. “How much do you want?”
Cook shouted. “Money can’t buy what’s not
there! The spring won’t stand it, I tell you!”
Van Dorp went again to the railhead to consult
a solicitor, who shrugged, wanting everything in black
and white; and, in any case, his cattle would die
during the time it took the law to get in motion.
For the first time in his life Van Dorp lay awake
through the night. The sobbing bellows of his cattle
echoed and re-echoed through the trees that wound
with the windings of the river, and was tossed through
the thirsty branches up to the
burning stars. Before sun-up
he was away, riding up and
down the valley, but none had
water to spare. He even rode
ten miles across the plains to
Inden’s, who had a bore that
had never failed.
Inden, a little fat fanatic, was angry with his
God. He took Van Dorp to the bore which had
slowed to a dreary trickle. “I doubt He’s what my
mother taught me to believe. Why would He torture
beasts? I never liked that Cook. He couldn’t look
you in the face. God will deal with him.”
CTOCK on the plains was dying like flies. Van
Dorp passed grey-faced men —men he had known
for many years. They scarcely gave him greeting.
What weather could do to men! There was about
them a quality of stealth, of furtiveness. They slunk
past, with averted heads, as though crime lay behind
or before them. Van Dorp, wondering whether his
face was stamped with the same look, thought that
in the meantime God —or the devil —was dealing with
his stock, and that it was up to him to see that they
got a square deal.
Involuntarily his hands closed more tightly round
the haft of the axe. If Cook tried to stop him ...
He lifted the reins, and the apathetic horse woke
and moved forward in one movement, stepping alertly.
Out of the haze and heat that obscured the mountains
appeared a tiny smudge of cloud, no bigger than a
child’s hand. Van Dorp, wrapped in his unquiet
thoughts, let the horse go its own gait, a loose, shuf-
fling run, born of its own momentum down the steep
grades.
Trees came up to meet them —pines, with the
needles withering on the resinous boughs; poplars
whose broad, shining leaves rustled dryly, though
there was no breath of wind ; willows, clinging tena-
ciously to the clayey side of the cutting, clinging
tenaciously to life, though the sap was dried out of
them and the leaves curled and powdered from the
skeleton framework of the veins.
Where the road flattened abruptly to the valley
bottom, punga-trees stood up from the dry bed of
a deep creek that was spanned by a wooden bridge.
The lean horse, robbed of the urgent impetus of the
steep grade, slowed down to a steady shuffle, kicking
up the dust in little puffs, carrying its head low and
coughing every now and then, the difficult, racking
cough that is born of drought.
Lombardy poplars threw gaunt pencil shadows
upon the road that turned again between the thick
silvery boles, to pass the white picket gate of Cook’s
homestead. Cook himself leaned upon the gate, his
hat pushed back from his heated brow, his eyes
brooding upon the dusty road. Van Dorp thought
that of all the faces he had seen that day only Cook’s
retained the healthiness of color. Behind him, the
house gleamed bone-white through olden trees that
gave an illusion of permanency.
As horse and rider emerged from the hot shade
Cook looked up and turned abruptly from the gate
and slouched up the drive, his long fantastic shadow
mocking his lurching horseman’s gait.
Grief took hold of Van Dorp ; a little nagging
sorrow that could know no rest or appeasement;
disillusion that would wait upon him for ever. His


hands rigid upon the axe-haft, he rode into the brazen
sunlight that scorched the rounded stones of the river-
bed.
VAN DORP checked his horse at the gate that gave
access to the lower portion of his land. On the
opposite side of the road a hundred acres, barred and
patched with trees, rose smoothly from the river and
ended under the frowning margin of the cliffs that
enclosed the valley.
Without dismounting, Van Dorp opened the gate
and went into the paddock, where starving sheep
nibbled with hopeless hope at the hard stems of gorse
and manuka or huddled in the sparse shade of trees
long denuded of their foliage. Beneath them the
lopped branches gleamed whitely, stripped of every
vestige of bark, every twig and branch of the season’s
growth. Automatically the horse swung right, and
went along the edge of a deep drain which stank with
the rotting carcasses of beasts that, leaning over in a
vain search for food and water, had slipped in and
died miserably in the breathless shade.
They went through an open gate, and, taking a
diagonal course, the tired horse mended his pace a
thought, flicking a listless ear towards the corner where
a big mob of cattle milled with a ceaseless grunting
bellowing that had a horrible suggestion of moaning.
On the outskirts of the mob, dun-colored sheep wan-
dered aimlessly, tongues protruding, eyes fixed in a
glassy stare.
As the cattle became aware of the approach of
horse and rider, the muted rumble of their plaint
swelled to a hoarse bellowing, holding a threat that
was echoed back from the lofty crowns of the poplars
and pines that stood sentinel above the dam. Bellow-
ing sullenly, they tossed mighty heads, goring the air
with savage horns, tearing the hard earth with knife-
edged hoofs. Red-eyed, they stared unwinkingly, while
saliva drooled from their shining, twitching muzzles.
Van Dorp rode among them, and they made way,
threatening each other and the dazed, unoffending sheep.
As horse and rider passed, they closed in again. Van
Dorp rode down into the bed of the dam, which was
already baked bone-dry and beaten flat by the cease-
less vigil of a thousand restless hoofs.
On each hand the wire boundary fences came
down to the six-foot banks of the dam, but across
the dam itself Cook had erected a solid fence of pine
posts and rails; posts twenty inches through, deep-
sunk and permanent. The rails, whole trunks as thick
as the posts, were wired and wired again, and held
by staples of one and a half inch steel.
Studying it, it was born in on Van Dorp that
Cook must have had several men on the job to get
it finished in the day. Premeditated then.
Dismounting, slow wrath welled in him. He
stared over the fence to where at the lower end of
the dam a good-sized pool of slightly muddied but
sweet water gleamed in the thin, dappled shade.
Unless the spring failed suddenly there was ample
water yet —for his beasts as well as Cook’s. On the
banks under the trees Cook’s beasts, sheep and cattle,
thin but quenched, drowsed uneasily.
Van Dorp leaned the axe against the fence while
he stripped his sodden shirt off and tied it to a stirrup-
leather. Then he turned the horse loose with a smack
upon the rump. Dispiritedly it plodded away, undis-
mayed by the circle of silent beasts that seemed half-
minded to refuse it passage.
Van Dorp watched them give back before the
sudden savagery of bared teeth and swiftly striking
hoofs, and thought that if the fence fell there would
be no passage back for him. If he were to come out
of it alive the job must be well and truly done, each
post cut to a nicety that would yield to the packed
weight of the mob.
He picked up the axe and tested the blade before
moving over to the right-hand post. The sun gleamed
redly on the whirling blade, on the white flying chips
and on the strong column of his body. Behind him
the cattle tossed uneasy heads, grumbling and snort-
ing and snuffling, edging closer and closer.
Van Dorp tested the post before moving on to
the next. The cattle fell curiously silent and still,
making no sound beyond the labor of their unhurried
breathing. Van Dorp did not look round. Sweat
beaded off him ,in bright drops that grew to tiny
runnels between breast and shoulder-blade. As the
second post wavered some of the tension went out
of his lace, but his swift look in the direction of the
sound of racing hoofs held unswerving determination.
Eight posts in half a chain. Moving to the third
he did not look up when Cook, driving his heavy
mount with merciless spurs, came thundering round
the plantation. A startled beast plunged from his
path into the spring, and the unhappy horse stumbled
upon the bank and followed it, jerking the man half
out of the saddle.
Clawing himself back, a little foam came to his
lips, but Van Dorp, his gaze intent upon his
work, neither saw nor heard ; but when Cook, having
flailed his horse back to dry land, bore down on
him, he looked up for a fleeting second. The third
post rocked. Van Dorp moved on.
Cook hurled himself out of the saddle and caught
the fence with impotent hands. Beneath them it
swayed. Blind rage went out of him. For a space
he stood staring at Van Dorp, his mouth gaping, his
close-set eyes pathetic in their incredulity. Slowly
he began to climb the fence.
Van Dorp spat on his blistered hands.
“Don’t come near me,” he said.
From the bottom of the fourth post the white
chips danced, fantastic as white butterflies. With a
furtive scuffling of hoofs, the cattle came closer.
Cook shut his mouth with a clicking of his teeth
that was audible only to himself. His light eyes
were suddenly malevolent, venomous as a snake’s.
Turning back to his horse, laughter took him ; laughter
silent and deadly and not wholly sane. The drum-
ming of his horse’s hoofs died out round the plan-
tation.
Van Dorp, moving to the fifth post, looked after
him speculatively ; looked round at his cattle that were
down now, round the edge of the dam. They stared
back, with little throaty grumbling, their eyes gleam-
ing redly, their damp nostrils working unceasingly.
“He’s gone for a gun,” thought Van Dorp, and
wondered whether he would have time to cut through
the four remaining posts. Time to round up the mob
and pack it hard against the wavering fence.
I—l ALF-WAY through the sixth, it seemed to him
* * that he could hear the steady roll of approaching
hoofs, but he had the seventh half cut through before
the doubt became a certainty. Dimly he hoped that
Cook would make a clean job of it. To
die slowly would be a terrible thing.
Cook came round the bend
of the plantation. His spurs
were running red, and
there was a gun
across his saddle bow. Van Dorp glanced up briefly
and moved to the last post. Swinging the axe, it
seemed to him that a shadow went over the malignant
sun.
Cook dropped off his spent horse and stood a
moment fumbling with the gun. Then he came for-
ward a few steps and dropped on one knee, cuddling
the stock against his cheek.
The wavering of the last post and the crack of
the shot came simultaneously. Van Dorp had a fancy
that the wind of the bullet fanned the solid structure
and set it swaying. Something seemed to knock him
sideways, spinning him round to face the cattle, and
that which he saw galvanised him to tremendous
action. With his left hand —his right seemed paralysed
and useless—he drove the axe into the earth at the
top of the bank, and somehow hauled himself up
on to it; and the cattle, as though released by the
shot from some strange spell, bellowed like frenzied
things and charged down in a solid phalanx upon the
fence.
Van Dorp, propped upon his elbow, saw beneath
him a mad maelstrom of wildly tossing heads and
backs. The fence was gone without a sound, and
the mad stampede boiled over into the spring and over
it, not knowing that it was there until the spray of
it splashed up about them, cooling their unreasoning
panic, and they swung about, bellowing and fighting
for room in water churned now to hopeless mud.
Van Dorp sat up, wiping his good hand across
his eyes. Slowly the curtain cleared away from before
them, but it seemed to him that there was upon the
world some difference, some indefinable change. Hesi-
tatingly he wiped his eyes again, but the greyness
remained, and there was wind upon his face, a wet
wind, cool with the promise of rain.
Shaken, unbelieving, Van Dorp stood up and
faced the south, and saw the great inky clouds
tumbling tumultuously forward, as though they would
overwhelm the thirsty earth.
He rubbed his hand across his eyes and turned
again and saw Cook with the broken gun in his hand
dodging this way and that in a vain endeavor to save
himself from the ugly rushes of an old cow that, cut
off from all hope of water, was mad with the lust
to kill.
Van Dorp laughed. This, then, was the end - of
Cook, who had been a good neighbor . . .
A jagged arc of light ripped the sky from horizon
to horizon, and a clap of thunder that came near to
bursting the eardrums smote down upon the waiting
earth; and wind came—a mad, glad wind, with rain
upon its lips—great drops that seared and stung. It
came shouting down the valley, bringing the seething
hiss of rain before it, bending the withered trees over,
whipping the scorched leaves far up to heaven.
Cook stumbled, and the old polled cow swung her
head, and caught him a glancing blow that knocked
him off his feet. Van Dorp jerked upright, as though
some pressure were suddenly lifted from his brain.
Snatching up the axe, he began to run.
Cook stood a moment fumbling with the gun.


A World-shattering Discovery
PINTS and PALMS
DRAWING BY SUCH.
By
S. H. COURTIER
JT\ S Director of Agriculture
r | I am only too aware of
V, I the tendency of the
public —to say nothing
of the Public Service Commis-
sioner —to frown upon civil
servants who might appear to
engage in private enterprise, so
I am taking this opportunity
of airing the facts of my rela-
tions with Mr. Pensil. I feel
sure, once the truth is known,
any criticism will be swamped
by praise and well-deserved
praise too, if I may say so.
One morning Squail, my
secretary, brought me a card
engraved “Aubrey Pensil, Esq.,
Allo-Allo.”
“The gentleman says he has
an important matter to discuss,”
said Squail.
“Show him in,” I directed.
Mr. Pensil proved to be a
tall, sunburnt man, staggering
under a bulky portmanteau. He
ceased to stagger as soon as he
put the portmanteau down. I
waved him to a chair.
“Mr. Ratmuff,” he said,
“I wish to speak to you in
absolute privacy.”
I told Squail to clear out
and shut the door.
“Thank you,” said Mr.
Pensil. “Now, let me explain,
Mr. Ratmuff, that for the last
seven years I’ve been living in
Allo-Allo, a remote little island
in the Pacific. There I have
been growing coconuts.”
“Ah! Planting,”'l commented. “Prosperously,
I trust?”
Mr. Pensil was non-committal. He said that,
though the cultivation of coconuts was interesting, he
had quickly realised that the nut, as a fruit, had in its
hard shell a serious defect. This had led him to
study the propagation of the coconut palm with the
idea of producing a nut with a soft skin.
I have no need to say that I was an interested
listener.
“The advantages of a nut you could peel like
a banana, for example, are obvious,” Mr. Pensil said.
“How many times a week, Mr. Ratmuff, do you
damage your fingers opening a coconut with axe or
saw?”
I had never lacerated my hands in the way Mr.
Pensil indicated, but I quite perceived his point.
“My experiments,” Mr. Pensil continued, “con-
sisted of cross-fertilising the coconut palm with other
forms of vegetation, such as the banana, the orange,
the peach, and so on. You follow?”
“Of course. And did you succeed?”
Mr. Pensil leant towards me earnestly. “Not in
the way I expected, Mr. Ratmuff. Purely by accident
I stumbled upon a phenomenon. You know that at
a certain stage of the coconut’s development it con-
tains a milk which is quite drinkable?”
I said I did know it.
“Well,” Mr. Pensil went on eagerly, “I want you
to examine the contents of the nuts in my bag.” As
he spoke he opened the portmanteau, to reveal a
number of what looked to me like ordinary coconuts.
“To save you any trouble in opening them,” said
Mr. Pensil, “I have brought a gimlet. But I think a
glass would also be advisable.”
His serious manner impressed me. I found a
glass, and without further delay bored two holes into
a nut, from which there trickled a clear brown liquid,
enough to fill the tumbler.
An astonishing suspicion was forming in my
mind. I sniffed at the liquid, and jny suspicion
rapidly mounted towards belief. With Mr. Pensil
watching me anxiously, I held the glass to my lips.
The taste was most familiar. Delight struggled with
fear that it might not be. At last I drank slowly, and
then there was no doubt at all.
“Mr. Pensil,” I cried, “this is beer! Unbelievable,
but true!”
I hastily tapped another nut.
“Well?” inquired Mr. Pensil when I had finished
the second glass.
“Marvellous!” I said with bated breath. “How
on earth did you do it? It’s better beer than any
I know.”
Mr. Pensil relaxed into his chair. He reached for
the gimlet and tapped a nut for himself.
“Ah!” he said, wiping his lips. “I needed that.
The strain of waiting was intense, but now you
confirm my opinion I’m a new man.”
I COULD not control my excitement. “Mr. Pensil,
' what kind of nuts are these?”
He smiled. “You remember I told you I crossed
the coconut palm with various other plants?”
I nodded.
“These” —and Mr. Pensil flourished one of the
nuts —“are the hybrid of the coconut with the hop-
plant ! ”
“The hop-plant!” I echoed. “This is a
stupendous discovery, Mr. Pensil.”
Mr. Pensil accepted my congratulatory hand-
shake with pleasure.
“I have, therefore,” he resumed, “named the new
variety the hop-palm and the new beverage coco-
beer.”
I assured him both were very apt selections, and
we proceeded to open several more nuts so that we
could enjoy our conversation in comfort.
“Coco-beer is the most remarkable event in the
realm of agricultural science,” I said.
Mr. Pensil was frankly delighted.
“You don’t know,” he said, “what those words
mean to me. I’ll be able to satisfy a lifelong ambition
now.”
“And what’s that?”
Mr. Pensil’s eyes sparkled. “I’m a member of
the Field Naturalists’ Club, Mr. Ratmuff. I’ll be able
to read a paper before them that will be a sensation.
I’ll take the palm in my own line of scientific
research.”
“To read a paper? Good Lord!” I ejaculated.
“You surely don’t mean it?”
“I certainly do,” he affirmed. “And then —well,
I suppose I’ll have to return to Allo-Allo and repair
my shattered plantation.”
Again I was almost stupefied. “Your shattered
plantation?”
“Yes,” Mr. Pensil sighed. “Just prior to my
departure from the island it was swept by a cyclone.
Absolutely swept clean! The work of years ruined
•in a short hour. It has left me practically penniless ;
perhaps a few hop-palms left. So after I’ve addressed
the Field Naturalists I’ve got .to go back and start all
over again.”
I surveyed Mr. Pensil with unconcealed curiosity.
“Is it possible,” I asked, “that you regard a
paper to the Field Naturalists as your only reward
as the inventor of coco-beer?”
“Well”—Mr. Pensil’s tone was wistful —“the
paper might be deemed important enough to gain
me an F.R.C.S. or an F.R.A.M. or even an F.W.8.,
which would be very gratifying.”
“F.0.0.L.,” I said, cracking another nut —my
_sixth.
“I beg your pardon,” Mr. Pensil stuttered.
“I’m not saying so myself,” I told him, “but
there are those who’d call you one with not the
slightest hesitation.”
“What?” Mr. Pensil stared.
“Can’t you see the money in coco-beer?” I asked.
“Money?”
“Yes,” I asserted. “L.S.D.—a far better capital
assortment than those you quoted. Listen, Mr.
Pensil. You have the power of amassing what should
be the greatest fortune this world has ever seen.”
Mr. Pensil couldn’t understand it.
“I’ll, explain, then,” I said patiently. “But first,
what would you say is the natural habitat of the hop-
palm?”
Mr. Pensil became the alert horticulturist.
“Having inherited the characteristics of both parents,
its range should extend over the whole of the tropical
and temperate zones.”
“Then,” I cried, “we are made!”
“We?” Mr. Pensil queried.
“Mr. Pensil,” I declared, “I’m v<ith you in this
right up to my eyebrows. There are thousands of
individuals and corporations that would jump at the
hop-palm, there are Governments that would sub-
sidise you to the extent of their national debts for.
exclusive rights in coco-beer, and I can’t hazard a
guess at what the world’s breweries would pay to
suppress it. But they won’t get the chance. From
now on I’m handling your product.”
“I wish you’d make it all clear,” said Mr. Pensil
somewhat querulously.
I set about doing so.
AT the outset I reminded him of the world-wide
** campaign for the planting of more trees. Public
opinion was being educated to the dangers of denuda-
tion and erosion, and there was a growing demand
that our empty spaces be filled with trees both orna-
mental and useful. Such, I claimed, was propaganda
made to order for us.
The peculiar advantages of the hop-palm had
only to be pointed out to arouse a tremendous craze
for it. Governments and municipalities would vie
with one another in adorning streets, parks and public
gardens with the hop-palm as an incomparable
method of making life more pleasant all round.
“Think,” I said impressively, “of walking home
through avenues of hop-palms after a hard day’s
work. You reach up every now and then for a nut,
crack it on instruments strewn handily about for the
purpose, and I can safely leave the rest to your
imagination. Further, Mr. Pensil, every right-
thinking man will see the benefit of growing his own
beer. Instead of a man saying ‘Come and have a
look at the roses, old man,’ he’ll say ‘What about a
swig at my latest hop-palm?’ ”
The more I reflected the more I saw of the vast
possibilities of the hop-palm. The terrors of the
Dead Heart of Australia would be completely slaked
when that expanse of sand and thirst was planted with
hop-palms. Then there were the Sahara, the Gobi and
the Arabian, just to mention a few. Their owners
would be bound to follow Australia’s lead in making
the growth of the hop-palm their chief form of
arboriculture.
“To sum up,” I concluded, “there will be a univer-
sal, never-dying, always-expanding demand for the
hop-palm.”


S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date June 6, 1938.
£.200
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
No entry having been considered
worthy of the Prize last ‘year the
amount goes on to this year’s award,
making the total £2OO. Details can
be had on application to “The
Bulletin,” 252 George St., Sydney.
“It hardly seems possible,” Mr. Pensil said.
“Of course it’s possible,” I argued, “under the
slogan of Free Beer! Do you know of a more potent
rallying cry?”
Mr. Pensil did not.
“But,” he demurred, “if the beer is to be free
where’s our fortune coming from?”
I laughed. “The beer will be free, Mr. Pensil,
but the hop-palm won’t. Millions of hop-palms will
be wanted. Just think of the number needed to plant
all the streets, parks and deserts in Australia alone!
And we’ll be the only nurserymen to supply that
demand. At, say, a pound apiece, our return will be
incalculable. ‘Every man under his own hop-palm.’
We 11 be multi-millionaires.”
He was still dubious. I could not understand his
attitude till he reminded me of his unfinancial condi-
tion. He would, he said, need money to start a plan-
tation of the size we should want.
Oh, that!” I said. “You needn’t worry, old
chap. I provide the cash, you grow the hop-palm and
we share the profits fifty-fifty. Does that make every-
thing clear?”
Entirely,” said Mr. Pensil with alacrity.
Very good, then,” I said. “We’ll work out the
details.”
I first of all insisted that Mr. Pensil’s idea of
reading a paper to the Field Naturalists be dropped
forthwith. Mr. Pensil was disappointed, but acquiesced
when I pointed out that premature publicity might
result in competitors breaking into our virgin field.
We next decided that Mr. Pensil should go straight
back to Allo-Allo and put the first lot of a million
seedlings under way.
Now,’ I asked, “how much will you want to get
going—four or five hundred?”
What? ’ Mr. Pensil fairly bellowed. “Four or
five hundred! I’ll want at least £5000!”
Heavens!” I groaned, taking the blow in the
solar plexus. Then I got my wind back. What was
£5OOO to the wealth that would be mine? “A large
figure,” I went on with renewed assurance, “but you
shall have it. After all, it’s a mere bagatelle.”
Mr. Pensil caught the glow of my enthusiasm.
As you say, a mere bagatelle. So make it six thou-
sand. I can do with it. And it’s likely I’ll want more
before long. Hop-palms require a lot of greasing.
You’ll be good for all my notes, Mr. Ratmuff?”
After some hesitation, I signified my assent.
“I’ll have to see the bank,” I added.
“Splendid,” said Mr. Pensil. “I’ll start back for
Allo-Allo to-morrow with an easy mind.”
We celebrated the finalising of our arrangements
by knocking the last nut. Then we shook hands, and
Mr. Pensil departed, grasping his portmanteau. We
were both in the highest spirits.
NTEVERTHELESS, the next few months had their
1 trying moments.
Mr. Pensil made five more requests for money.
This imposed a severe strain on my resources; but,
with the accommodating assistance of the financiers
who are so helpful to civil servants, I weathered the
storm.
On the whole, however, Mr. Pensil’s letters gave
such glowing reports of the hop-palm’s progress that
I had only the happiest anticipations. The seedlings
were sprouting well.
Then came Mr. Pensil’s astounding cablegram:
“Come at once. Tremendous develops
ments. Cable £lOOO immediately.”
I secured long leave and booked my passage by
the next boat. When I had paid for my ticket I ha:d
only enough money left to send Mr. Pensil the amount
he required. t
You can imagine my dismay, consequently, on
arrival at Allo-Allo, a charming place, to find that
Mr. Pensil had left a fortnight previously. However,
when Mr. Pensil’s houseboy, a native Allo-Alloan,
handed me a letter from his master, my fears were
set at rest. I read:
Dear Ratmuff, —
So sorry I could not stay to welcome you,
but I had such a marvellous opportunity I
couldn’t let it slip. I’m off to Spain to procure
cork-bearing oaks with which to cross the hop-
palm, From this we will evolve a nut with a
cork top. This, you must agree, will be a boon
to all users. On the strength of this, l think
we can safely raise the price of each hop-palm
to two notes, don’t you think ? Till I get back
you’re in charge, so make yourself at home.
Yours till we announce the hop-palm to a
thirsty world, when we shall bask in palmy
days.
Pensil.
That was a year ago. If it wasn’t for Mr. Pensil’s
strange silence I wouldn’t have a care in the world.
Of course, I realise Mr. Pensil must be encountering
trouble in getting the oaks, Spain being so unsettled ;
but I am in the predicament of having no ready cash
till he returns. When he does, though, I’ll be ready
to cash anything. Still, as far as palmy days go,
nothing could be palmier than Allo-Allo.
LOUIS WHO COULD DANCE
BY DOUGLAS STEWART.
LOUIS, who could dance or twist his supple body
Jn acrobatic turns, sat moodily on a kerosene-
tin in front of the tent, as unaware of the gaping
r children and village loungers as he was of the
little white performing dogs that ran up to him, fawn-
ing and wagging their tails. He wished that the dusk
would come, and the crowd begin to beat like moths
towards the colored lights and the music. His fingers
drummed out a jazz tune on the tin.
He stood up and strode into the tent, but the
sight of Jo sitting there at her everlasting knitting
exasperated him, and he was about to swing outside
again when she called, “What’s the matter, Louis?
Restless again? Look, I’ve nearly finished your pull-
over.”
He kissed her casually. She was a half-caste
Maori, with a sluggish beauty that the men among
their audiences coveted as much as the women
admired the man’s dark, gipsy-like grace.
“I hate these lousy little towns,” he said. “Thank
God we’re only here a day. Even Te Kuiti will be
better than this, with the carnival on.”
He put a record on the gramophone, tap-danced
a few steps, and wandered out into the sunlight again.
At the sight of Norah loitering on the footpath,
loose-mouthed and pretty in a slipshod way, he
grinned. “Hullo, sweatheart! Just having a nose
around?”
Norah tossed her head. “Cheeky mob, you side-
show crowd!”
“How do you know?” Louis mocked her. “Been
out with some of the boys?”
“Got better than that to go out with, thanks!”
Louis showed her the caravan and the monkey,
and told her about ’Frisco and about the marvellous
bands he had danced to in the music-halls in England.
The careless way he said “ ’Frisco”!
“This place,” she said; “there’s nothing to do in
this dump!”
Louis said yes. But where did travelling get you?
It was all the same, plugging from town to town and
never any change. And in the winter it rained all
the time, and the tent was sopping, the caravan leaked ;
it was a wonder you didn’t get consumption. His
pale face and black eyes beneath jet-black eyebrows
looked more romantic than ever.
But at the big shows it wasn’t so bad. Crowds
and showmen yelling, the mugs fighting to get into
the tent and the money pouring in. Auckland, Wel-
lington ; they were the places. Especially Auckland.
Yes, she’d heard about Auckland, Norah said.
Louis looked a fair devil when that hot, bright look
came into his eyes.
“You coming to the show to-night?” he asked.
She giggled self-consciously. “Suppose I might
as well.”
“Might see you there,” he suggested offhandedly.
“I’ve got a boy, you know. He drives a truck.”
“Lose him!” Louis commanded abruptly.
She stood up and told Louis she’d have to be
going. She’d see about to-night.
"T HE clamor of cymbals and gong was hardly
needed to draw the people to the eight-o’clock
brilliance of the tent. Louis, splendid in a red shirt
and black velvet trousers, harangued the crowd from
the platform, while Jo, alluring in spangled tights,
clashed the cymbals and the rouseabout banged the
gong.
First there was the little humorous interlude with
the borrowed small boy and the sword, to whet the
people’s appetite, and then Louis began in earnest.
“You see the little girl, ladies and gentlemen.
Jo, come here and let the people have a good look at
you. That’s it, Jo ; turn right round and let the people
have a good look at you. Now, you see the little
girl, ladies and gentlemen, you see the little girl. She’s
not very big, she’s not very big. What do you weigh,
Jo? Nine-stone-four. Yes, that’s it, nine-stone-four.
That’s all she weighs, ladies and gentlemen, nine-
stone-four.
“Now! We’re prepared to back this little girl
against any man in the audience. Against any man
at all. If any man in the audience can throw the
little girl., wrestle the little lady and throw her on
her back, both shoulders flat on the mat and kiss her
on the lips inside three minutes—well, here’s a pound-
note for his trouble!”
He flourished the money.
easv 'S Wh ° T ‘° T 7
2%, fel at’
comers. Who’s going to wrestle the little lady and
win a pound-note’?”
Xhere was a moment’s un easy silence ; voices from
somewhere in the depths of the crowd grew jocular
and excited ; someone shambled to the platform; and
in a second Louis was pumping the hand of a red-
faced countr y youth, shuffling and guffawing as he
swayed half-drunk on the platform.
of b ? y ,’ S a ?J' and th ™ st ahead
£££ ”he° “be“dl
tumbled or putthe
paces, she, like the rest of the people who thronged
the smoky, animal-smelling interior, was hungry for
the excitement of the wrestling contest.
the ring, and the people began to jeer. “He’s scared.
He’s got the wind up. Come on, Charlie, show us
what you’re made of!”
The isolated cries swelled into a roar, and sud-
denly the man dived at the girl’s legs. She leapt away,
and, as he sprawled on the ground, pushed his face
into the earth. He forgot he was dealing with a
woman then, and rushed at her, but she was strong
and slippery, and broke away. As she stood panting
and smiling, he lowered his head and charged at her
like a bull. She slapped his face in derision as she
side-stepped.
The hoarse laughter of the people goaded him.
He caught the girl in a headlock, flung her to the
earth and fell sprawling across her writhing brown
limbs. His red face and beery breath sickened her,
and she scratched him till the blood came. His knees
ground down upon her shoulders, and the crowd
surged and shouted. Jo spat and bit and kicked, but
she was beaten.
“Time!” Louis shouted, leaping into the ring.
The countryman climbed to his feet, looking
dazed.
Bad luck, old man,” Louis consoled him.
Jo slipped away. The people began to murmur.
Norah could hear the man next to her muttering about
fair play. The countryman, his friends about him in
an angry cluster, was still in the ring, but Louis had
vanished.
Norah felt a cold hand on her arm.
“Come on,” said Louis. “Now’s the time.”
They were lost among the departing audience
before her boy realised what had happened.
Cold? Louis said a§ he put his arm around
her.
She tried to stop her voice trembling. “No,” she
said. “It’s a lovely night.”
HE fields beyond the town were dark, but she
felt she could have walked on for ever with Louis.
It seemed that everything would last for ever ; and
then it seemed no time till they were walking the
deserted streets of the village again.
There was something she wanted to say, but Louis
was wondering if the van was ready for the road. She
could see him staring into the distance, impatient for
the noise of the engine and the smell of the exhaust.
In the poetry of her mood she imagined the head-
lights sweeping road and roadside, pole and tree
and boxthorn hedge, past sleeping Stratford and sleep-
ing Inglewood with the white soldier of the war
memorial on guard ; over Mount Messenger and on
by the wooded banks and gleaming water of the
Awakino Valley, till daybreak saw him in Te Kuiti.
Gee, it was a marvellous life!
“Won’t Jo be wild?” she asked him.
“What of it?”
“Easy for you!” she said.
He kissed her good-bye indifferently, and with
a laughing “See you next year!” was gone. She
moved to follow him ; paused ; and then turned, and,
shaken but happy, began her solitary walk home.


m
■
■
m
m
. ■
mmmm
■
■
■
.
■
MsrnwmmMmmMmmmmmmmmm
ns i
f :
A
&
u\*
9 for 6d.-18 for 17-
cork TIPPED OR PLAIN
SSB
iw.ni
BLACK AND WHITE FINE CUT THE FINEST MONEY CAN BUY
low-spirited debauch instead, and afterwards returns
happily to the studio lot and his nostalgic dream.
Good enough psychology, but the reader leaves the
author behind, skipping by paragraphs to the end.
So also with “Having No Hearts,” “The Haircut,”
“Field of Five Trees” and others.
“The Dyspeptic Critic” is of special interest by
reason of being of a piece with the prefatory letter
addressed to Cukor. An allegedly highbrow reviewer
is inveigled by some merely popular authors to an
island where he is taught his literary manners and
induced to modify his views.
Head in Green Bronze raises the question of
whether Walpole isn’t beginning to date a little. About
half the stories are reprinted from English popular
magazines of fifteen years ago. Possibly they were
reckoned good stuff by readers of those journals at
that time. Their appearance now suggests that Wal-
pole has been sitting on his laurels so long they have
become slightly flattened.
Chicagoan Business Symphony.
In The Chute (Cassell) Albert Halper has added
another large canvas to that big-scale survey of
American life that so many of its novelists are
unconsciously co-operating to produce.
Perhaps it was Elmer Rice, in his dramatisation
of tenement life Street Scene, who led the way;
Stribling followed with his unvarnished epic of the
South ; Sinclair Lewis explored the world of small
business in the provinces; Upton Sinclair opened up
the factory ; and a hundred others have filled in the
picture. The books indicate a strong anti-romantic
movement, a recoil from that idealism that used to
saturate American literature.
The Chute gives a detailed reconstruction of a
Chicago sweatshop, the Golden Rule Mail Order
Company. The spotlight is focused on Department 2,
men’s furnishings, its numerous personnel and the
homes behind them. It is a community drama, an
essay in work rhythms not unlike a symphony by a
modern composer. The work of Department 2 is
described in great detail; it makes the fabric of the
story ; everybody’s life is subdued to his or her work.
Orders have to be packed at high speed and, at
regular intervals, when a bell rings, delivered down
an iron chute to the shipping department. The
constant roar of the conveyor belts, the whir of
machinery, the clatter of boys racing about on roller
skates, the intermittent clangor of the bells, the crises
of speed that recur and recur, and the bigger seasonal
rushes of orders with their overtime work, followed
by slack periods when dismissal becomes an over-
whelming dread in the minds of all the employees,
give the book a complex rhythm. It is a world of
fear and hope, of intense competition, an aspect of
the great and ruthless struggle for existence.
The Golden Rule Mail Order Company is itself
a victim of industrial conditions. Its struggle against
competitors in a world already overshadowed by
economic depression forces upon it a policy of
speeding-up and of expansion that eventually breaks
it. The mail-order year reaches its crisis in the
Christmas rush with its constant overtime and the
annual stocktaking that follows it immediately.
Everyone is raised to the highest pitch of anxiety
and expectation when, without warning, the vast
bubble bursts. The company closes its doors, bought
up by a bigger competitor, and all hands are dis-
missed. That is the end of the book. The reader is
left with the panorama of lives suddenly shorn away,
changed to helpless flotsam.
Halper does not confine himself to generalities.
All his characters are fully imagined. The reader’s
sympathies are centred on one family. Sam, the
father, has a small tobacco-shop which does
not pay; the mother has no thought beyond
her children, least of all for herself. Rae, the
daughter, is twenty-six and has worked in a shirt
factory for eleven years ; Paul, at seventeen, goes
into the Golden Rule Mail Order Company. He had
been the bright boy of his class, with a talent for
drawing and ambition to become an architect. He is
the pride of the family.
Rae postpones her marriage in order to save ten
dollars a week to send Paul to college, but when she
has two hundred saved the mother falls ill and has
to have an operation which takes it all. Nature, too,
takes a hand, and Rae, finding that she is going to
have a baby, marries and goes to a cramped and
hopeless life, living with her husband’s parents, a
thing she had always dreaded.
Paul has at last found a job in an architect’s
office at six dollars a week, and he is happy ; but
with Rae’s marriage he knows that his family cannot
do without his earnings. He quietly gives up the
coveted job and returns to the mail-order company,
only to learn within a week that it has gone out of
business and he is jobless and without prospects.
This is a picture of the family, at its best, on trial
in the modern world.
"Thank You, My Good Horse."
Iceland is remote in other terms than sea miles,
and Gunnar Gunnarsson’s Ships in the Sky (Jarrolds ;
translated by Evelyn Ramsden) opens a new world.
It is a child’s world in a society that has remained
primitive in many of its forms, although it is com-
posed of intellectually and emotionally mature units.
The book purports to be Uggi Greipsson’s remi-
niscences of his childhood and is part of a much
larger work, a cycle called The Church on the Hill.
So far the church is out of sight.
It is a quiet and gentle story of small happenings,
the visit of a grandfather, a journey, children’s games,
the coming of a travelling bard, an old servant’s tales,
winter and summer on a farm, portraits endless
portraits—of simple folk. All is seen through the
eyes of a child and told in the first person.
To what extent it is autobiographical it is hard
to say. The events, most of them happy, are remem-
bered in a tender mood that' borders on homesick-
ness. The charm of the book is in its remoteness ;
dramatic power it has none except in the last pages,
where Uggi’s mother dies and the child’s misery and
fear give the narrative intensity. Previous books show
that this tender and idyllic vein is not the limit of the
author’s ability.
The characters are drawn slowly, touch by touch,
but the reader comes to know them very intimately.
The central figure is the mother Cecelia, whose story
is more suggested than told. Her homely nobility is
like a warm glow in the book. Around her group
the others —the three children ; Old Begga ; Bjarni, the
smith ; Honnie, the boy who makes up in goodness
for not being very bright; Siggi, who tells the children
horrific tales ; Simon, the bard.
The foundation-stone of this patriarchal society
is equality. Master and man share the same name,
the name of their farm. They live together in sim-
plicity regulated by good manners. The animals share
in this equality and are included in the good ma: ? n^u e
Thus after a journey it was the custom to thank
horse formally, “Thank you, my good horse,
having carried me so safely.” All the sheep are in ,
viduals duly,named. “Sneggla was his best sheep, a
came of a race considered as being on an equal >
with our own. Sneggla was his darling, his idol, t
apple of his eye.” . . re „ .
The book is full of excellent domestic picture ,
all hands to the wool-carding, the smith turned
for the time being, dogs and puppies sprawled bet wee
them on the floor of the living-room. The only criti-
cism that can be levelled against Ships in the ok,
is that it is somewhat too long.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction ... .
Thirteen O’clock : Stephen Vincent Benet (Heine-
mann). Short stories ranging from the Kentucky
hills to Hitler’s Germany. Each too long for what
is in it, and full of literary echoes.
Son of David: S. W. Powell (Bodley Head).
Novelised version of the life of Christ up to His
thirtieth year. A difficult subject. The author has so
studiously avoided anything approaching irreverence
that he has also avoided anything approaching realism.
Cockroaches and Diamonds: John Goss (Bodley
Head). Love and excitement in a fictitious minor
Eastern kingdom, with some amiable satire at the
expense of British public servants. A chapter on
Eastern third-degree methods is revealing.
Mr. Pendlebury’s Second Case : Anthony Webb
(Harrap). A film star is found drowned in her bath
at a house party. Scotland Yard would have been
baffled but for the perspicacity of a whimsical amateur
sleuth.
General ...
Feminine Fig Leaves: C. Willett Cunnington
(Faber). Study of contemporary taboos in the manner
of a lay-reader proposing the toast of the ladies at
the parish bunfight. Playful.
/ Speak for the Chinese: Carl Crow (Hamilton).
Puts a case for China very well. And says if America
—not Britain this time —went to war with Japan, that
would be peace.
Private View : Patrick Bellew (Barker). A laugh
to practically every page of these drawings. Some of
the views are very private.
Vienna : Edward Crankshaw (Macmillan). Decline
of Viennese culture reflects the decadence of all
Europe. Tired but good writing, and a good but
tiring book.
Live Alone and Like It: Marjorie Hillis (Duck-
worth), is a chattily-written vade mecum for the
bachelor girl, with tips on etiquette and deportment.
Verse . . .
Under the Trees: Lionel Welsh. An Australian’s
pleasant bird and tree verses in an attractive white
booklet. Of birds’ eggs:
Bark-cradled clutches, apple-green,
And pearly white eggs hidden low;
O little mothers, I have seen
Your springtide glories and I know.
Selected Poems: Jean Irven Mackenzie (Kosmon
Era Press, Annandale, N.S.W.). First of a series to
be published in memory of a writer widely admired
in South Australia and elsewhere.


<§)
fd
AI SEA, ON LAND ami IN IDE AIR
t&Gut JIcZA/Z
AUSTRALIA* NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
4
AT
s«3s
LAO
I
IS IJ?£ A\?i
Over 470 ships have been equipped with A.W.A. wireless
installations, and 125 ships have been equipped with
A.W.A. auto-alarm apparatus.
A.W.A. regularly exports to Great Britain wireless equip-
ment for vessels building there for Australian and New
Zealand shipping companies.
The most powerful medium-wave broadcasting trans-
mitter in the British Empire the 60kw. broadcast
transmitter of 2YA, Wellington was designed and
manufactured by Amalgamated Wireless to the order of
the New Zealand Broadcasting Service.
A.W.A. established and manufactured the apparatus for
the world’s longest telephone service—between Australia
and England.
A.W.A. manufactured the wireless telephone transmitter
for New Zealand, linking New Zealand with Great
Britain and other parts of the world by means of
A.W.A.’s telephony services at Sydney.
A.W.A.-designed and -manufactured wireless transmit-
ting equipment is in operation in New Guinea, Papua,
Fiji, Samoa, Tonga, Portuguese East Africa and French
Pacific possessions.
Over 50 Broadcasting stations have been designed, manu-
factured and installed by A.W\ A. in the cities and country
towns of Australia, and at New Zealand, Papua and Fiji.
The Sydney Transmitting Centre of A.W.A. is the largest
transmitting centre in the Southern Hemisphere, over 15
A.W.A.-manufactured transmitters being operated there.
The design and manufacture of wireless equipment for
aeroplanes and for ground communication with aircraft
constitutes still another phase of A.W.A. manufacture.
The manufacturing activities of Amalgamated Wireless
provide employment for more than 1 700 Australians,
while a further 950 Australians are engaged in the com-
munication services and selling activities of the Company.
A.W.A. conducts the wireless telegraph services from
Australia to overseas countries, Papua, New Guinea, and
ships at sea. Every year public Radiograms containing
about 20,000,000 words are handled.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
i
w
ill
%
_ • . ' • ** •*
Ifty t-? 5 "
&/**■■-- • r' .m .
: m
■jJ&Lz ' • £ . ir
xV
P
25^
■ i-I.; : : :
■
" > ,:*'l
■ ■a! m
c ™r~ w 111^®
PP 3 ** f ‘~~ I ~ <, -; Jr
■ . ■ ■“#
v
y#r-
C_j
A.
:/-• ■ .j-
-1 ■
I
ijSSi
11
■ -
f l
#
Mi
&
B
191
1
>
KM
ll
I
■
■Mi
11
||l|||
H
I
i: 1
lfg||§
■
S !
H ■
■
M
■
1
■
I
■I
■■
PH
■
■
m i
■MPf
m
■
Sll
I
99
■
■
rl
i
J.
Wio:ik
'
■
1
: '
■
i i
1
II -■ |fl * V M;
*'*■'••* *H9i
• :.
■
IsSt.
iiPis ■ i hhII
H' / ' .. ... -
Hll9lll
V. .
I
:
■
■
Shipment of Para to London from SeppelPs cellars, which hold over 4\ million gallons.
midylfcuq/uel


PACT QUEUE.
“Next, please!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 8797 L
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. bd.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
UNCLE SAM'S LONG SUIT.
When Uncle Sam barged into the war that Australian
and Maoriland Diggers have been fraternally remem-
bering this week, he did an admirable job. His navy
was of great help in the anti-submarine campaign,
and his Doughboys turned out to be good soldiers.
As soon as they got the hang of things they fought
like Britons —or Fritzes, for that matter —and con-
sidering the comparatively brief time they were in the
dust-up they suffered heavy casualties. Then there
were Uncle’s moneybags, which played an even more
important part than his Doughboys, and which still
have large hollow spaces that will take generations to
refill and others that will never be filled.
There was also the conclusive psychological effect
of his entry on that rowdy stage, and there were other
related contributions from him which produced
decisive effects. The whole performance left Uncle
Sam a changed man. His name was honored in many
lands, and, being a very young actor, unused to the
plaudits of such multitudes, he was spoilt a bit.
Previously he had not been much heard of in the
affairs of nations. Now he felt that he had a right
to be heard most distinctly ; and, to begin with, he
sent along a Head Deputy armed with a substitute set
of enlarged Commandments and plans and specifi-
cations for a union of the nations dedicated to stand-
ing side by side in the upholding of everlasting peace.
From Uncle Sam’s standpoint this was purely a moral
scheme, hatched out of his elevated feelings ; and the
greater part of a world that had been hideously dam-
aged by war embraced it as a panacea and embraced
Uncle Sam as a savior.
A fresh and striking voice had been heard in
world affairs ; the voice of an idealist. A light was
held up to a stricken world, and the world —or most
of it—fell on its knees before the holder and called
his name blessed.
Such is the lasting power of kudos once acquired
that the echoes of all that still surround Uncle Sam
like a magic ring, despite all that has happened .since.
Against the power of that big-fellow magic it gets
nobody anywhere to set down the sober fact that
when the Head Deputy returned bearing the Covenant
of the League of Nations Uncle Sam repudiated both.
Still, it is easy enough to imagine what an outcry
would have arisen if John Bull had conjured up the
League of Nations idea, with moral sermon appended,
and had then retired to isolated seclusion, bluntly dis-
owning the product of his sentimental ingenuity.
Uncle Sam did not stop at that. He brought
his sermonising to the point of being a habit. He can
now be relied upon for a resounding address from
his pulpit whenever the world seems to him to be in
need of moral correction.
Thus there was a fine sermon when one appeared
to Uncle Sam to be warranted by events in China.
On that occasion Head Deputy Roosevelt let himself
go in the best Billy Sunday tradition. The world, of
course, applauded. It still likes a spirited exhibition
of pulpit-thumping, and this one was magnificent.
Parts of it led the Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” which
prides itself on having “given Australia leadership,” to
conclude that Head Deputy Roosevelt was delivering
not a sermon, but an ultimatum, with “positive action”
against Japan in the place of a moral. The Aus-
tralians were forthwith urged to take the arms out of
their teeth and “fall in” behind Head Deputy Roose-
velt in “positive action” —pronounced “war” —against
Japan.
There followed the sinking of a United States
gunboat by Japanese —the foggiest incident of a very
foggy war. Within a few weeks Uncle Sam had
accepted the Japanese apology and withdrawn part
of his forces from China.
Events in Europe indicated the occasion for
another sermon, and this time Deputy Cordell Hull
obliged. Deputy Cordell Hull dealt out right and left
to “aggressor nations” and “international anarchy.
He pointed the finger of scorn at “international law-
lessness on the rampage,” the “contagious scourge of
treaty-breaking,” the “spread of armed violence from
one region to another” and the “rule of force sup-
planting the rule of law.”
The world cheered Deputy Cordell Hull to the
echo. His sermon was declared “one of the most
statesmanlike utterances ever made by any Secretary
of State.” Deputy Cordell Hull stood pedestailed beside
former Head Deputy Wilson and present Head
Deputy Roosevelt. Particularly was Deputy Cordell
Hull applauded for stigmatising a policy of isolation
as a possible fruitful cause of war. This was inter-
preted as meaning that Uncle Sam had given over his
traditional policy; more urgently it was interpreted
as an admonishing of John Bull for inclining away
from a “policy” of intervention in everybody’s wars.
The core of the sermon—
We have scrupulously followed, and we intend to
follow, the traditional policy of our country not to
enter into entangling alliances or involvements with
other countries —
was overlooked.
Affairs in Europe continuing mixed, it was no time
after this that Uncle Sam felt called upon for another
sermon. The text on this occasion was the “urgency
of the problem of political refugees,” meaning the
Jewish minority in Austria, threatened by the union
with Germany. Uncle Sam proposed a “special
international committee to deal with the question.”
He thought that Switzerland, where a £2,000,000
edifice had gone up to hold the League gold brick,
would be a suitable scene for the committee’s meeting.
He was hurt when Switzerland “gave a cool reception
to the suggestion” and “considered that it would be
preferable for the committee to meet in some other
country, because of special problems involved.”
Switzerland, of course, has been execrated, and
Uncle Sam’s kudos has increased enormously. This,
despite the fact that Uncle made no concrete offer
that was not hedged in by bristling qualifications,
these among them:
It is not suggested that the entry of refugees into
any country taking part in the proposed movement
should exceed the numbers allowed by legislation. In
the case of the United States, there would be no enlarge-
ment of the present Austrian and German quotas, but
every effort would be made to facilitate and accelerate
entry within the now prescribed limits.
Cold comfort for those Austrian Jews who wish
to emigrate; but, from the American standpoint,
sound commonsense. It is this very core of common-
sense in Uncle Sam’s sermons which is overlooked by
those who fasten on the apparent idealism as the
feature that we should adopt—to the extent, in this
instance, of setting some portion of Australia apart
for a Jewish colony. Uncle Sam’s name for this
core of his policy is “enlightened self-interest.” From
that, for all the sermonising that is his long suit in
world affairs, Uncle Sam can be depended on not to
shift a foot.
It is not an original note in foreign policy. It
was the note struck by George Canning when he
shaped the foreign policy which John Bull followed
gloriously till Head Deputy Wilson induced him to
join the League—the sane foreign policy to which,
after perilous seasons, John Bull has had the good
sense to return.
Housing, Taxing and Raiding.
The crool landlord who used to build houses for
investment having been legislated out of existence,
the Housing Improvement Board appointed by the
Stevens (N.S.W.) Government has presented a report
in which it says it will take £30,000,000 to “rehabilitate
sub-standard housing in the metropolitan district
alone.” Needless to say, the members recommend (1)
a permanent board and (2) another tax. There are
already two State taxes on income, but the board
wants a third—of a penny in the pound. There is
also a Commonwealth tax, and there may be another.
Meanwhile, expensive houses built on what Mr.
Stevens calls his co-operative plan, the Government
guaranteeing overdrafts, are going up all over the
place. It would be safe to wager that, in three or
four years, hundreds of them will have been returned
to the co-operators, as was the case with hundreds
of N.S.W. Government Savings Bank homes, though
a discreet veil was drawn over the fruits of that
experiment.
The British system is better. In Britain, though
the Government subsidises home-building in certain
circumstances and supports it with loans in others,
the primary responsibility is on municipalities.
Since the war vast numbers of homes have
been built under municipal schemes. The aim
generally is to shift slum-dwellers to an outside ring
of suburbs, unless the nature of their work makes it
impossible for them to move. Every effort is made
to give them cheap transport (though the N.S.W.
Government owns the railways and the buses and the
trams, this, it is alleged, can’t be done in Sydney), and
the land which they have vacated is developed as a
business or industrial centre or sold.
It is not the custom in Britain to house the low-
wage worker in a heavily-mortgaged villa and
pretend that it is his exclusive property. There,
as here —though not to such an extent —large num-
bers of workers do not remain long enough in one
locality to render it advisable. Often fares are too
high to allow them to live a great distance from their
work, and when their jobs move they move.
To the end of June last year the Exchequer
contribution since 1919 towards the building of
British homes had been £178,821,000. Birmingham,
which is about the size of Melbourne, had built
43,844 homes, which are managed by an estate trust.
Only 3315 had been sold; the balance were nearly
all occupied. The rent collected totals £1,240,000 per
annum. Plans for garden-lot and farmlet estates in
the suburbs have been developed.
Housing schemes work in Britain because they
are kept away from politics. They have worked fairly
well in Australia where local conditions admit of the
building of wooden dwellings for people with steady
jobs. But where the main idea is to raise immense
numbers of brick villas and sell them on small deposits
and long terms there will be heaps of failures.
Partly by choice, partly by necessity, many Aus-
tralians are migratory, as any electoral registrar can
testify. You don’t really benefit these wanderers or the
community by trying to anchor them to £BOO or £9OO
Government houses for the rest of their days. Nor
to anyone taking the long view (which cuts out
politicians and sloppy philanthropists) is it desirable
that £30,000,000 should be locked up in the “rehabili-
tation of sub-standard housing” in one city. If Com-
munists, Trades and Labor Councils and newspaper
editors got us into a war it would be necessary to
sfiift a large part of the city population to where it
wouldn’t be easy prey for raiders or invaders.
Not At All Rickety.
By comparison with any Australian State, the jam of
population is spread very evenly over Maoriland.
Victoria can boast that five-ninths of its 1,850,000
people are tucked away in one city. It has its Ballarat
and its Bendigo, but it would be more prosperous
and less vulnerable if its city population were distri-
buted as that of Maoriland is distributed in cities like
Auckland (212,000), Wellington (149,980), Christchurch
(132,500) and Dunedin (82,000). Fourteen urban
districts contain about half the population of the
country —1,500,000 whites and 82,000 Maoris.
Port and education facilities are distributed in
the same way. Most Maorilanders have a university
within 150 miles. And every inland town in Australia
has cause to envy communities such as Nelson, with
its great school which gave Lord Rutherford his start.
The basis of Maoriland prosperity is the land.
Not having huge areas at their disposal, settlers have
been compelled to take their farms in small quantities,
and they have learned that farming is most profitable
when it becomes two industries —when feed is grown
as raw material and turned over in the shape of stock
or stock products. In other words, experience has
taught them that it pays to return farm manure to
the soil ; to sow suitable artificial grasses; to
subdivide paddocks so as to regulate grazing
and eliminate waste ;to weed out the scrub bull and
the 1501 b. butter-cow. Further back in the process
is the development of land, by intensive cultivation
and proper rotation and fertilisation, to its highest
point of productiveness and the storing away of
surplus products for handfeeding in winter and other
lean times.
Nearly five-elevenths of all occupied pastoral and
farming land —say 17,000,000 acres —is under sown
pasture or stock feed, and farm yields are such as to
stagger Australians growing the same crops. The
potato yield averaged last year 5.62 tons to the acre ;
the onion yield rarely falls below eight tons, and in
peak years has gone to 12 tons.
The number of dairy cows is double that of
Victoria ; so is the number of all other cattle. And
Maoriland possesses almost twice as many sheep as
Victoria. Over the whole of its occupied area —
including millions of acres of crop, orchard and
garden, 23,000,000 acres of tussock land, fern and
virgin bush, and nearly 2,000,000 acres branded as
“incapable of being made productive”—it carries six
horses, 1Q0.74 cattle and 632.4 sheep per 1000 acres.
Hawke’s Bay district, with 2,724,000 acres ot
occupied holdings, carries 367,000 cattle and 4,000,000
sheep. Wellington district has on 5,200,000 acres 850,000
cattle, 6,800,000 sheep and 113,000 pigs. Yet with all
this apparent stock congestion the country nearly
keeps itself in wheat.
Output of butterfat per cow has doubled since
1907, and quality has been raised till Maoriland butter
has set a world standard. “Canterbury” is a synonym
for the choicest lamb. In 1936, value of agricultural
and pastoral production was reckoned at £72,500,000.
Last year the wool cheque (there are 31,000,000 sheep)
was up £6,000,000. The Labor Government has made
mistakes, and it will make more; but it has not
committed the folly of antagonising good customers
in the hope of gaining something for Manchester or
some other distant spot where “Damn the Colonies!”
used to be the favorite imprecation.
Maorilanders object to their country being termed
“the Rickety Islands,” Certainly there is nothing
rickety about their land industries or their schooling
or their health statistics (their infantile deathrate is
the lowest in the world) or their institutions or their
achievements. And among their blessings they can
count the fact that they have one Parliament (its two
Houses have 119 members, very modestly paid), not
seven or 49. Other things being equal, one-Parliament
countries plan better and waste less than countries
with a multiplicity of Parliaments which are always
butting in.
E. V. J.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Reactions.
The Anglo-Italian agreement has been applauded by
the President of the United States, the Right-Wing
French, the Greeks and the Czechs. The Czecho-
slovakian Government is so delighted that it has
straightway recognised the King of Italy as Emperor
of Ethiopia. At the same time its President Benes
made approaches to Germany, being now anxious to
arrange with that country an agreement on the lines
of the one signed at London and Rome.
This must be a blow to Moscow, which has
hitherto felt that it had the synthetic Republic in the
bag; but of that the Australian public has not
been told. Somehow or other, the Australian
public, though kept copiously informed of the iniqui-
ties of “the Fascist Powers,” is permitted to learn
little about the. barbarities committed in the U.S.S.R.
or the defeats suffered by Moscow policy.
“Pravda,” of course, curses the .renewal of the old
friendly understanding. Its example has been dutifully
followed by the Reds of the Sydney Trades and Labor
Council, who claim to represent the sentiments of
(among other organisations) the A.R.U., the Sheet-metal
Workers and the Miners’ Federation, and by Leagues
against' War and Fascism —which nowadays don’t
seem to be catching so many good mugs as they did.
On the other side are the “Age” (“a Worth-while
Agreement”), the “Argus” (“substantial and of the
greatest advantage, immediate and potential”), the
Adelaide “Advertiser” (“happy outcome of the Rome
conversations”) and the Brisbane “Courier-Mail”
(“the terms substantiate Mr. Chamberlain’s de-
scription, a ‘full and frank settlement’; the agree-
ment has resuited from Mr. Chamberlain’s courageous
policy of grappling with immediate realities instead
of propounding theories”). Only in Sydney were
jarring notes struck by morning newspapers. The
“Labor Daily,” which nowadays reflects the ready-
made opinions of T. and L.C. Reds, was furiously
hostile to the agreement. The “Daily Telegraph” and
the “Morning Herald” damned it with faint praise.
To the “D.T.” “there remains a rather big doubt.”
The doubt is whether Mussolini “can be trusted,” and
whether he has really abandoned his alleged “dreams
of converting the Mediterranean into an Italian lake.”
So the “D.T.” sees Mr. Chamberlain engaging in a
“dangerous gamble with England’s security,” though
it allows that “history will acclaim him” if it comes
off. And to “S. M. Herald” “much more than a pact
negotiated in haste, and signed apparently consider-
ably in advance of the date on which it can come
into force, is needed to repair a friendship and rebuild
a trust which have been so sadly shaken.”
In another article “Granny” makes some charm-
ing remarks about the “brutalities of the ‘total’ war
as conducted by Italians and Germans in Spain,” and
about “this barbarous mass foray into China,” of
which “Minami and his madmen” are guilty. The
old girl seems really angry at the prospect of being
robbed of a war.
The Loan Jag Continues.
Loan Council meetings serve one useful purpose,
though in a negative way they exhibit to over-
burdened taxpayers the selfishness, blindness and
arrogance of State Governments and their increasing
disposition to meddle in national matters. Of this the
latest example was given at Melbourne last week by
a superfluous Treasurer from Tasmania, who, while
holding out both hands for huge loans and Common-
wealth grants, demanded a defence expenditure of
£100,000,000 in a twelvemonth and rather suggested
that the £100,000,000 should be expended by poli-
ticians at their own caprice, having no faith whatever
in War Office, Admiralty or Defence Department
advisers. The gentleman is 67, and his experience
of anything remotely resembling warfare has been
confined to politics, the League of Nations Union and
the Anti-Vivisection Society.
This kind of thing is merely amusing. There is
nothing amusing about the periodical demands of the
provincial Governments for easy money. Though
warned that £72,000,000 of Australian loans were
maturing and would have to be converted this year,
and that the Commonwealth would need to borrow
for defence (this is questioned, though not by them),
five Premiers emitted shrill cries to the effect that they
needed all the easy money they could get and that
the bottom would fall out of recovery if they didn’t
get it.
Particularly did the five allege that if a bit were
shaved off loan expenditure the unemployed would
be reduced to dire straits. Two of them are fresh
from elections. The tale then was that unemploy-
ment had been virtually wiped out by their masterly
skill; and much the same story was spun by another
gentleman, whose election occurred six months ago.
Before they had finished their deliberations the
Commonwealth Statistician weighed in with a report
that employment in factories is 6 p.c. greater than
in 1935-36 and 15 p.c. greater than in 1928-29 ; that
unemployment in reporting trade unions has got down
to 8 p.c., and that the number of all people in work
is larger than at any period since August, 1927 ; but
this, of course, had no effect on the “deliberations.”
As usual, the Lyons Government so-called
because it never governs—made a show of strength
at the beginning and then weakened. It agreed to
float a new loan of £10,250,000, which will raise the
borrowings for 1937-38 to £19,550,000. The “pro-
gramme” was to be £16,000,000, and the “programme”
for 1938-39 is to be £14,000,000, exclusive of defence.
The joke (or the joker in the pack) is that there are
to be “semi-G overnmental borrowings” amounting to
another £14,356,000. In Government and “semi-
G overnmental borrowings” N. S. Wales alone is to
get £10,127,000, for some of which—notably £3,000,000
for that wild spender the Water Board—John Bull’s
ear will no doubt be chewed.
In the seven years to June 30, 1937, the public
debt of Commonwealth and States was increased from
£1,100,500,000 to £1,262,871,000. The State Govern-
ments, which owe just on £876,000,000, went through
£99,000,000, chiefly in respect of “works” which hardly
ever pay, and which mostly leave wide and permanent
gaps between expenditure and receipts.
Wool prices are down ; and a drought is feared in
N.S.W. districts which normally make a great contri-
bution to national wealth production. On the other side
of the Pacific is a great country which has got into
serious trouble as the result of over-borrowing, and
the only remedy its Government can offer is more
borrowing. These petty provincial Administrations,
to which what should be the national Government
yields so meekly, are exposing Australia to the same
risk.
Not for Sale.
During the last fortnight The Bulletin has been told
by scores of people that it has been sold. In Mel-
bourne the story is that it will go into Mr. Somebody’s
stable ; in Sydney, that it will be added to Mr. Who’s-
this’s string.
For 58 years The Bulletin has enjoyed an inde-
pendence which it values. Never in that time has it
been tied to any party, so it has been free to advocate
Australian union, Protection, C.O.D. finance and the
training of youth for national defence without
troubling about politicians or votes. All the time
it has furnished a free market for Australian (and
Maoriland) writers and artists. At no time has it
been under the necessity of publishing syndicated
offal, of apotheosising Hollywood morons or Com-
munists disguised as actors, of competing with the
dirty niggers who sell the dirty postcards at Port
Said, of circulating cabled lies and half-lies, of hoax-
ing the public about the situation in foreign
countries —notably Abyssinia, Spain and China —or of
demanding that an unready Empire should hurl itself
into League wars.
Owned almost wholly by the men who produce
it and by the families of dead editors whose memory
it cherishes, The Bulletin has no interest in radio
stations, goldmines, racecourses, boxing halls, jazz
joints or publications other than those issued by the
Bulletin Newspaper Co.
Established newspapers kept out of the clutches
of wealthy groups impelled by craven fears or ignoble
ambitions have a great survival value, even in these
times of intense commercial-radio competition. Of
late years, nevertheless, Australia has seen daily after
daily and weekly after weekly, each of definite value
to the community, bought up and closed down, their
staffs being flung on the streets, many never to be
employed in journalism again. This will not happen
in the case of The Bulletin. This paper is not for
sale.
Diggers from Maoriland.
In a year of wars and rumors of world wars, Anzac
Day had more than the usual significance.
The Diggers who gathered in the cities and towns
have no illusions about war. They know that there
are things worth fighting for; but they know, too, if
theorising professors, and leader-writers don’t, that
war is so terrible a thing that only the direst necessity
can justify it. No Digger who went through 1914-
1918 wants to rush off on the wild and futile crusades
on which fireside belligerents are so eager to send
them.
If their level-headedness sets an example to the
fire-eaters, their celebration of Anzac Day, reaffirm-
ing their conviction that what they fought for was
worth fighting for, sets no less an example to the
pacifists who would not lift a finger to save their
country from destruction. Mr. Chamberlain, who is a
realist as the Diggers are realists, recognises that arms
and armies are still necessary, and that a strong and
united Empire is the greatest force for peace.
The Empire’s solidarity and its potential strength
were demonstrated in Sydney on April 25 by the
visit of two thousand Maoriland Diggers. Fighting
side by side on Gallipoli, in Egypt and in France,
Australians and Maorilanders learnt respect for each
other’s courage, and learned, too, to like each other.
The destinies of their countries are inevitably linked ;
they are three days apart by steamer, and when the
Tasman air service starts they will be separated by
a matter of hours. In defence, there is already some
co-operation: Maoriland warships join with the
R.A.N. in Pacific manoeuvres, and last year M.L.
bought £48,597 worth of ordnance stores and military
equipment from Australia. But this co-operation
should be complete ; and it should cover foreign policy
as well as defence.
Flogging No Remedy.
In Mandated New Guinea, which is governed with
due respect for the opinions of the theorists of
Geneva, numbers of bush natives are taken away from
their villages and their womenfolk to work for whites.
They and the local Brown Brother are given more
money than they ever had in their lives before-
enough to buy whisky and sometimes even rattletrap
cars. They may wander round bungalows which,
because of the climate, are mainly wide open, and
are treated by inexperienced white women as quaint
persons without any of the frailties of whites. They
mingle with brash young fellows of their own race
brought up in missionary schools, and when they get
a clip on the ear for being cheeky there is generally
a soft-hearted functionary, armed with a regulation,
to protect them.
This segregation from native women and this
freedom have resulted in more and more assaults on
white women. Though force is no remedy, flogging
has been tried.
By all accounts, things are not much better in
the Solomon Islands and the New Hebrides. Some
predict that there will presently be serious trouble in
these groups of islands. Be this as it may, the
Northern Territory has now been added to the
districts in which Black Brother has become a Terror
and a Menace.
The flapper press, ever eager when there is a
sex theme to be exploited, rushed to make capital out
of the Packsaddle case. Packsaddle, a black with
Malay blood in him, made an attack on a newly-
arrived white woman. Police say that such cases
have not been uncommon, and Judge Wells, whose
outlook on native matters has usually been common-
sense, but whose experience has been confined to the
settlement abo., sent Packsaddle to gaol for four
years, saying that he was sorry the law did not allow
him to order a flogging.
Flogging will do no good to the Packsaddle type
of criminal. He is a pathological case whose morale
has been weakened by contact with low whites and
Asiatics. The cure is to remove all natives from the
vicinity of white towns, in which presence is
merely an excuse for the provision of cheap labor.
Queensland has this policy. Where Binghi lives
in any numbers in a Queensland town it is usually an
aboriginal town, governed by aborigines for abo-
rigines with a minimum of supervision. The result
has produced communities of happy, healthy, normal
people. Anybody who suggested that the lash for
aborigines needs to be introduced in Queensland
would be laughed at.
The Commonwealth Government might do much
worse than ask J. W. Bleakley, the Queensland Pro-
tector, to look over the Territory problem. And
Hubert Murray, of Papua, could .settle the New
Guinea business if he were given a free hand.
Farewell to Talbot Hobbs.
“M.H.E.” writes it:
The death of Joseph John Talbot Hobbs removes another
of the little band of citizen generals who showed the world
that non-professional soldiers with able brains could lead
armies and win battles comparable with those of Wellington
and Marlborough.
Chauvel, White, Jess and Blarney were staff men. Gelli-
brand had had a Sandhurst education. Monash, Glasgow,
Rosenthal and Hobbs were volunteers who left civilian jobs
in 1914: Monash was an engineer, Glasgow a pastoralist;
Hobbs and Rosenthal were architects.
Hobbs first saw the light in 1864 at Chelsea, not far from
the home of Thomas Carlyle. He was sent to Merton, a
great public school. He had three years’ experience in the
British volunteers before he arrived at Perth (W.A.) to practise
his profession. Becoming a volunteer officer in the West,
he commanded brigades before the war.
In 1914 he had just come back from a special course
in England. Bridges, who thought highly of him, had him
placed in command of the First Division artillery. At the
Landing he went ashore at 10 a.m., and climbed Plugge s
Plateau searching for a place for his guns.
Slightly-built, below the middle height, reserved in manner
and with no gift of speech, Hobbs did not at first impress
Birdwood and his professional staff. They soon learned that
there was good stuff in that small parcel of English manhood.
He was eight months on the Peninsula, and, still with the First
Division, as brigadier-general, when it went to France, he was
made general of division after the Somme campaign of 1916,
being placed over the Fifth.
Hobbs was a canny fighter. He had under him as brigadier
“Pompey” Elliott, one of the best action leaders of the war,
and on his staff there was the very capable Bruche. Under
his leadership the Fifth served with distinction, especially in
Flanders and the critical operations of the spring of 1918.
After the Armistice he succeeded Monash, with the temporary
rank of lieut.-general, until the demobilisation stage was
reached in 1919.
That glorious feat of arms the recapture of Villers-
Bretonneux was mainly the work of Fifth Division men.
Iheir old general was on the way to the opening of the
Villers-Bretonneux War Memorial when —like his friend and
exemplar John Forrest 20 years before—he died at sea.
An Alpine Lesson.
A sudden storm that swept the Australian Alps on
Easter Monday cost one Melbourne University
lecturer his life. Exhaustion and frostbite sent another
temporarily to hospital after he had struggled gamely
through the snow to tell the Mt. Hotham Hospice of
his companion’s collapse. ,
Behind these bare facts is an alpine lesson that
should be widely preached by Australia’s mountain
and walking clubs before the snow season attracts to
the heights swarms of skiers and climbers with little
or no experience.
Neither of the Melbourne University hikers was
prepared for bad weather. The Bairnsdale coroner
found that Laurence Galbraith died from heart-
failure, so in this instance spare supplies of warmer
clothing may not have averted tragedy. But the fact
remains that a 60-mile mountain trip was tackled
without the warm spares that should be carried in
every alpine rucksack as a necessary safeguard against
the vagaries of mountain weather.
Maoriland mountaineers have been harping on
the importance of emergency equipment for many
years. And, meteorologically, the Australian Alps
aren’t very different from Maoriland’s mountains ;
pilots flying the Melbourne-Sydney route know how
swiftly storms can blot out the ranges.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Old Wren”: There seems to be a sort
of hoodoo on Sydney’s Anglican cathe-
drals. The first man to suggest one was
Greenway, Macquarie’s architect, who
wished to make his edifice the central
point of the city, high upon a hill sur-
rounded by a circus of imposing magni-
tude and with roads radiating from it to
every point of the colony, one of which
was to cross a Sydney Harbor bridge.
Had he succeeded in carrying out his
plan, the Sydney traffic problem would
have been considerably more easy to
handle 125 years later, but.when Royal
Commissioner Bigge heard about it he
nearly had .apoplexy. Less than 30 years
afterwards, Blackett had planned St.
Andrew’s. It certainly is only a miniature
cathedral, but there is nothing wrong
with its beauty. The sane thing would
have been to pull the whole thing down
and rebuild it to Blackett’s design on an
ample scale. Reconstructed to hold 5000
people, it would vie with any late Gothic
job in Europe.
* * * *
“Goss”: Struck a fragrantly apt piece
of house-naming during an Easter walk-
about in N. S. Wales. Adjoining a prop-
erty that was decorated with the notice
“Stud Piggery” was “Stilton House.”
* * * *
“Stoo”: Proffering sixpence to an irate
landowner when you’re trespassing (B.
21/4/’3B) is all very well in theory, but
he’d have to be a more legally-minded
cove than the farmer who turfed me off
his property on the road to Makara from
Wellington (M.L.). Was boiling the billy
on the bank of a steam when he ran
down the hill yelling that if I didn’t get
off the place he’d tear a blanky batten
off the blanky fence and knock my gory
head off. When I lingered, to finish the
tea and to admire his adjectives, he actu-
ally started to pull off a batten. Trout
fishermen in Maoriland spend their whole
time trespassing, and only once have I
known a landowner object. He added a
certain weight to his objections by allow-
ing a particularly belligerent Jersey bull
to patrol the river paddocks.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: What’s the matter with
pronouncing the Latin word “Csesar” as
“seize ’er” and vides as if it rhymed
with “provide ease” (B. 13/ 4/ ’38)? I
was at one of England’s most famous
classical schools, and in those days,
as at Eton and most of the other old
foundations, Latin was pronounced
as written, with the English value given
the letters. A little earlier a craze
rose for teaching the alleged “Con-
tinental pronunciation” derived from
the Scotch through the French, and for
years this fad continued and spread until
now English schools and universities are
going back to the old English pronun-
ciation. It was soon found that the
alleged universal Continental pronun-
ciation, which was to enable the under-
grad. from Oxford to converse on equal
terms with one from Saragossa, was a
myth, no two Continental nations, especi-
ally those of Latin derivation, pronounc-
ing the language alike. The Continental
method has no historical or etymolo-
gical foundation. No one can say with
certainty to-day that Cicero called him-
K't'ero or that Horace’s beautiful
line, dulce et decorum est pro patria
mori pronounced as spelt was
mouthed by the orator in the hideous
jargon “Doolchey ate daycorarm ast pro
partria mo-ree.”
* H* ❖ ❖
“Dhas”: My experience of Shows had
been limited chiefly to displays in Maori-
land dairying districts where the devotees
prostrate themselves before a battle-
mented pantheon of cheeses, and I dips
me lid to the rich corpulence of the pro-
duce section at Sydney. It was the
finest advertisement for Australia I’ve
ever seen, and if only it could be trans-
ported to London immigrants would
come over at a gallop. New to me, and
less pleasant, was the showing of a live
bullock as an advertisement for saus-
ages ; and new, and comical, was the
sight of a horseowner shooing steed and
jockey over the high jump by chasing
“ Couldn't y ’ see us cornin'?"
“ Yairs , but the gates Was open."
along behind them with a waddy. Pity
that the new buildings, as impressive
from the outside as those Paris put up
for the Exposition, are so nakedly
raftered inside ; the arches might have
been meant as a harbor-bridge sym-
phony, but they made you feel you were
inside an enormous culvert. And pity,
too, that Sydney can’t run to some of
those illuminated fountains that made the
Exposition at once colorful and grace-
ful. As it is, the Showsround is drab
by day and gloomy by night.
* * . •* *
“C.Q.”: “Selma” (B. 6/4/’3B) can
always remember clearly the shape of
counties in England and Wales because
of a jigsaw puzzle he had as a child.
I can’t help but visualise a date, a reign
and any important event in English his-
tory in the form of squares. As far as I
am concerned, Waterloo is a small
square near the top of a larger square
in the extreme right-hand corner of a
square 6ft. by 6ft. Charles I. lost his head
in the middle of a square two removes
of large squares from the left-hand bot-
tom edge of the big square. And so forth
and so on, back to and before William
the Conqueror. In my schooldays in S.A.
we were supplied with a large ruled
canvas which was divided into centuries
and thousand-year periods, and the vari-
ous happenings were indicated by our-
selves by means of such symbols as
crossed swords to indicate a battle and
crowns for coronations. The teacher in-
vited us to diversify this symbolism by
pictures pasted in the appropriate spaces,
The result was an aid to memory which
time has not weakened.
* * * *
“Alpha”: Combined with middle-ear
trouble, night blindness (B. 13/4/’3B) can
lead others than car-drivers into danger.
Struck a case of an employee in a dye
works who treated himself to three sue-
cessive dips in boiling vats. When the
quack found that the time of each acci-
dent was round about five on winter
evenings he tumbled to the cause.
Balance is a matter of sight and middle-
ear canals—the jokers that cause sea-
sickness and similar evils when upset —
and nothing else. With the canals out of
action, darkness means an instant fall
for the victim. Had this man ever had
occasion to stroll about at night he
would have found out for himself. The
habit of retiring at the same time as the
fowls was responsible for his scalds.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Just gone up in smoke,
Little Roderick homestead, 50 miles in-
land from Oamaru. For many years
it was occupied by Lord Kitchener’s
sister, Mrs. Parker, and there in the
seclusion of the hills K. of K. once spent
a quiet holiday. His sister later went
to stay with him when Kitchener
became Sirdar of Egypt. Mrs. Parker
died in London in 1925. It was from
the vicinity that poems from an aspiring
young man used to reach the buster at
Oamaru 40 years ago, the writer being
David McKee Wright.
* * * =>=
“Spare Skeats”: Reference to the
decadent standard of the “S.M.H.” lan-
guage in these degenerate days reminds
me that the Old Lady now wallows in
the use of the vile Americanism “Brit-
isher” when she indicates a Briton. The
beastly expression was brought from the
United States by Charles Dickens, who
introduced it in Martin Chuzzlewit,
where it fell appropriately enough from
the lips of Colonel Hannibal Chollop
and his tobacco-chewing American con-
temporaries. For a long time the baser
type of Australian newspaper has used
the abomination, but it is only of late
that the “Herald” has become contami-
nated.
• * * * *
“Yarra”: There is a new dwelling in
Yarrawonga which should receive the
blessing of Hitler or Billy Hughes. The
wife of the builder presented him with
twins; then the painter’s wife followed
her example. Now the tenant’s wife has
presented her lesser half with twins. The
owner of the house, a bachelor, has
decided against marriage.
* * * *
“Den”: A historic Sydney house that
is not likely to suffer the attentions of
the demolfsher for many years is Passy,
Hunter’s Hill, of interest as one of the
two houses on which the Barnard-Elder-
shaws based the description of the Hyde
home in The Bulletin prize-story, A
House Is Built. Passy was built about
1850 by M. Sentis, then French Consul
in Sydney. Later it was the home of
George Dibbs. It is a fine specimen of
the Australian colonial house, that skil-
ful adaptation of the English Georgian,
which would have developed into a dis-
tinctive Australian type of domestic
architecture had not its evolution been
arrested in the mid-nineteenth century by
the advent of the period of revivals.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: A recent census by a
Queensland school inspector suggests
that Australia’s most cosmopolitan and
multilingual area is that from Mossman
to Tully (N.Q.). Of 3937 children attend-
ing schools there, 727 were of Italian
origin, 142 Greek, 45 Spanish, 58 Yugo-
slavian, 51 Maltese, 45 other European
nationalities, 45 Polynesian and abo-
riginal, 34 East Indian and 70 Asiatic.
The total comprised nearly one-third of
non-British extraction. In 19 of the
schools, more than half of the enrolled
children were of non-British extraction ;
at one in the Innisfail area children of
British descent numbered six, as com-
pared with 81 non-British, and only
one British family attended a school
near Ingham composed otherwise en-
tirely of Italian-descended youngsters.
The teachers had no complaints about
the Italian kids as workers or as regards
their standard of intelligence, but there
was a tendency for Italian parents
to remove them from school immediately
they were old enough to be of use about
the place.
«i»
“Ex-Mister”: Appreciation of the
sailors’ heaven to be provided by a 40-
hour week on M.L.-registered deepwater
passenger ships doesn’t seem to be re-
flected on the faces of their crews. There’s
plenty of mor-cty in it—stewards collect
from £35 to £4O monthly, with tips on
top of that, and even such unimportant
hangers-on as masters and mates see a
trifle more in the pay envelope—but none
0 f them seems to be really enjoying it.
The catch is that the greatly-increased
crew S p ace w hich is needed even with
heavy overt j me has bitten deep into the
p a yi n g_p a ggenger accommodation, and
on Q f g enerous iy. S ubsidised
Amerjcan competition is ab ont the last
to be receiving serious consideration, and
British rates of sea-pay are by no means
heavenly. Should this be blocked by
legislation, prospects are even gloomier
for Maoriland mariners,
* * * *
“Roll Up”: Sydney’s markets, especi-
Paddy’s on a Friday night, are still
0 f color (B. 13/4/’3B). Culture can
seen there, too, as well as commercial-
ism. I once listened to an ar S u ™ ent b e .
tween a salesman and a lad T
in each hand one of those earn? n
containers, and said W y the dilt. in the
prices? ’Ere you’re arskin one an
six for the little one and on y a- boo
for the biggest an’ strongest-loolan . Ihe
merchant smiled pityingly. Yes, lady,
he said; “but”—pointing to a couple ol
pink roses on the bottom of the dearer
utensil—“y’ gotter pay f’r hart.
A RARE DISTINCTION.
“Mr. Gollan, the new Chief Secretary in the
Stevens Government, is one of those rare politicians
who can wear a top-hat uns el f-con sc i ops ly. ’ ’
—Sydney ‘payer.
Framers of laws we have —not lords, maybe,
Of language, but extremely downy birds,
Masters of artful phraseology,
Experts at clothing thoughts in fitting words.
They know what treatment diff’rent themes
require:
Low, earnest pleading, loud, assertive speech,
Logic or hot invective, ice or fire—
And keep the proper tap on hand for each.
But when it comes to their own coverings—that
Is all too clearly quite another case.
E.g., how few can wear a stovepipe hat
With quiet dignity and easy grace;
Can wear it with the absolute aplomb
That Governors and aides serenely use,
Or stately Consuls faring to or from
Vice-royalty’s delectable shivoos;
Can wear it as if nobody had said
(Or thought) *‘My oajh! It’s passing strange
to see
Him with a thing like that upon his head”—
In short, can wear it unself-consciously.
In almost any other sort of tiles
They look at home, the chaps who make
our laws,
Trim bowlers, felts of various shapes and
styles,
Topees, and even Panamas and straws.
And frills more subtle some can carry off,
From snowy vest-slips down to speckless
spats;
But few, alas! how few, can don and doff,
As to the manner born, those high plug hats!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Captain Pintle”: That embittered
American visitor who, deprived by a
heartless Customs of the shore com-
pany of his faithful canary, refused
to set foot upon Australian soil should
have trained the fowl better. My friend
Captain Pumpernickel commanded a
German freighter, and the light of his
soul was a canary named Hans, an ac-
complished bird who shared with his
master a liking for beer. I once helped
him to fill in a portentous Customs docu-
ment regarding Hans’s legitimacy, finan-
cial circumstances, marital condition and
the rest, together with a solemn under-
taking under penalty that Hans would
not be allowed to get loose and ravage
Australia or debase the currency. We
went ashore for a look round, and over
the first handle of Australian lager I
expressed the hope that he was not miss-
ing Hans’s company. “Ach, der leedle
Hans,” he twinkled ; “I think he like der
gcot Australian beer, too. Come on,
Hans.” And out of a capacious star-
“I kept bumpin' me 'ead on 'em, sir!"
board pocket hopped Hans. Making
straight for the nearest mug. he piped
his disregard for Australian Customs.
* * * *
“Squish”: The most beautiful word in
the English tongue (B. 13/4/’38)? I
plump for “marmalade,” which is as
lucently sweet and colorful as the comes-
tible it stands for. Like many of our
loveliest words, it derives from the
French through the Scots, who, all said
and done, speak the tongue of Chaucer
and Shakspeare more charmingly and
correctly than any other section of the
British race. '
“That all y' brought? Wot are We goin' to do for the Week-end?"
“Ibn el Issar”; The young English
officer in India is to be deprived of one
of his most cherished and long-existent
privileges—the borrowing of money from
native usurers at 200 p.c. p.a. or so. This
year’s Imperial Army Act forbids anyone
to attach the pay of any members of
H.M. forces for debt. The actual lend-
ing of money is not forbidden, but if
anyone thinks the pious Hindu will con-
tinue to lend without the security of a
garnishee on the Sahib’s pay he is griev-
ously mistaken. In the past the custom
was almost universal. Even in the Indian
Army the pay of a junior subaltern was
wretched, and calls for regimental pur-
poses which he could not avoid and for
an almost indispensable amount of sport
and recreation made his life a misery
unless he was holder of a solid private
income. To-day, with pay much higher
and far more generous allowances than
of yore, the necessity for the money-
lender has dwindled.
* * * *
“Mak”: Girls often enough leave
home without taking parents into their
confidence—but not many do so on their
wedding eve, and fewer still send mes-
sages that hint of abduction. Melbourne
had this brace of unusual missing-girl
stories over Easter week-end, one being
the result of a delayed postal delivery and
ihe other of a well-developed imagina-
tion. A hesitant 19-year-old bride went
to a girl friend’s home to think things
over, but her parents didn’t receive the
explanatory letter until after the holi-
days. The other girl, a 20-year-old, bor-
rowed Hollywood ideas that started a
State-wide police search. She sent a mes-
sage to the office where she worked,
arranging an appointment with herself
for the night she disappeared, and she
wrote a disguised letter warning her
parents not to attempt tracing her! Re-
ported in the city after the holidays, she
explained she had had a job at a bay-
side guest-house. Reason? She “wanted
a change.”
si: sfs si: *
“Kiwit”: Most big ports take cruise
ships for granted and leave passenger-
flattery to flapper-papers. In the case
of the Reliance, the Empress of Britain
and the Franconia, the flapper-papers
overdid it. People laughed with the leg-
pulling Empress of Britain skipper, who
so enjoyed himself at the expense of
his interviewers. They laughed at the
minx who explained she was travelling
light with 50 dresses and a few play-
suits. That sort of
thing doesn’t go down
in this country, in spite
of the efforts of the
flapper press.
* *
“Mak”: Belief that
British cars can’t com-
pete with American
makes for road per-
formance in hilly
Maoriland seems to be
dying out if the record
importation figures for
1937 are a reliable indi-
cation. Cars of United
Kingdom origin landed
at Maoriland ports —
mostly Wellington—
were valued at
£3,250,000, while those
from U.S.A. an d
Canada just topped
£2,500,000. Better road surfaces across the
Tasman have probably bumped the sales
of the nominally lower-powered British
vehicles, but it is also a fact that in recent
years U.K. car-makers have been paying
more attention to the requirements of
Dominion buyers. Earlier in the history
of the motor industry, they left this to
the Yanks. Australia contributed £3OOO
worth of motors to Maoriland’s 1937
import total of £s,7B6,ooo—which also
included a £99 Japanese car, a £449
truck from Germany and a couple of
Italian makes valued at £404.
“Kyamba”: Inquiries made in a Mel-
bourne departmental store regarding non-
delivery of goods led to a geographical
revelation. Erring merchandise was dis-
covered in the country dispatch depart-
ment ; address on label read: “Mr. J.
Jones, Hotel Windsor, Annexe.” A per-
plexed packer was delighted to discover
that the township of Annexe is in Spring-
street, Melbourne, alongside the Hotel
Windsor.
**, * *
“Kerys”: A 15-year-old damsel who
stowed away on the Straithaird at Syd-
ney might have had an undiscovered trip,
first-class, had she been content to go
ashore at Melbourne, but an ambitious
attempt to go on to Adelaide led to her
undoing. She was not as lucky as two
girls who boarded a Matson liner at
Sydney recently, slept in deck-chairs and
crossed the Tasman unchallenged by any-
one on the steamer. Had they had suffi-
cient funds to tide them over at Auck-
land they might have escaped detection,
but their unfinancial plight led to their
downfall, and “Home next trip” was the
verdict of Authority.
* * =;:
“Key”: Before the All-aged Plate was
run at Randwick, the old lady behind
me in the stand was relating to her circle
that she had dreamed the night before
she was looking at a portrait of Charles
the Second, which, she said, might be
regarded as a efream-tip. Her family
went hastily through the raeebook and
decided King’s Head was the indicated
selection. Nobody thought of Old
Rowley, who was to win the Cumber-
land Plate.
* * V *
“Xo”: Cornered at last by a Mel-
bourne salesman for one of those jabber-
ing machines that save typists from the
worries of their own shorthand, the boss
allowed himself to be persuaded into a
trial performance. “It is ready for use?”
he asked when the contraption was in-
stalled in his office. “Yes, but” and
the enthusiastic salesman started the
usual explanation of how such machines
should be operated. “Oh, I know all
about ’em, and I’m busy,” interrupted
the boss in dismissal. He hadn’t really
meant to use it seriously, but, working
back, he thought he would try it out.
With the satisfied feeling of a job well
done, he cleaned up the last of his back
correspondence and spat a final filing
instruction info the mouthpiece. Next
morning the typist informed him that he’d
neglected to switch the power on and had
been wasting breath on a dead machine!
* * , * *
“1.D.8.”: Touching the question of
diamonds (B. 13/4/’3B), how many know
that Australia also produces the gems?
The N. S. Wales stones are rare, and are
said to resemble the Brazilian stones, than
which, for purity and color, there are no
better to be found in the world. Aus-
tralian and Borneo diamonds are harder
than those from other countries, which
is a distinction, for diamonds are by far
the hardest of all natural substances. Inci-
dentally, though India produced the Koh-
i-noor, the Regent, the Orloff, the Hope
and the Sancy (which once belonged to
Queen Elizabeth), the Indian diamond
diggings have now been practically ex-
hausted, and one would have to search
far and wide among jewellers to-day to
find an Indian stone. The fall in the
price of rough diamonds is due to the
fact that the gems are now being found
in increasing numbers all over the world.
# * * *
“Koura”: People do like to look on
the bright side of other people’s misfor-
tunes. Heard a woman once, staring over
the wall at Dartmoor, probably the most
bleak and forbidding gaol building in
England, chirp “Oh, I expect they have
quite a good time in there really.”
I struck almost exactly the same thing
on a recent visit to Berrima gaol
(N.S.W.). Guide had been showing us
the cold, gloomy cells in which convicts
kept in solitary confinement had fre-
quently lost their reason, and a female
tourist, skipping upstairs to a doorway,
looked out at the sunshine and declared
helpfully: “It’s quite nice out in the
yard, really.”
BALLADE INSCRIBED TO A
SAUSAGE-MAKER.
“Ihrcugrhout Sydney Show a bullock chewed his
cud under a notice proclaiming that he had been
bought for Somebody’s Sausages.”
Vou may observe with mild surprise
Me crawl the lawn of Mon Repos,
Cropping the grass with joyous cries;
And, truth to tell, I was not so
Herbivorous not long ago,
But 1 m revolted to the mizzle.
I've seen the ad. of Chop and Co.,
And heard, alas! a distant sizzle.
A sausage on a plate that lies
Was just a sausage once I know,
And fearing not his mysteries
With gusto then I laid him low;
“Ut-—blast the ads. of Chop and Co.—
My courage wilts, my ardors fizzle,
And as for roots and weeds 1 hoe
I still hear that confounded sizzle.
I rom breakfast egg my fancy shies
Lest it in dim reproof should crow;
1 cannot meet an omelet’s eyes,
bar less the oyster’s face of woe.
Condemned to live on greens that grow
f rom messy earth and damping drizzle,
I curse the ads. of Chop and Co.,
And that confounded thought of sizzle.
Envoi.
Prince, when where you deserve to go
You make pretence you like to frizzle,
Oh then below may Chop and Co.
Cheer up your soul with sound of sizzle.
N.S.W.
DHAS.


They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
k
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
10 for
20 for 16
D 382
Ifes 4s*
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
li
POLITICAL POINTS
Mr. Stevens came back from the
Loan Council palavers rubbing his
hands. Barring accidents, he is to get
£10,000,000 or £11,000,000 from investors
in 1938-39, including something for de-
fence and farmers’-debt-relief, £3,000,000
for the Water Board and £630,000 for the
County Council—that travesty of a
good name. He worked the “semi-Gov-
ernment” oracle or political ramp again.
Posterity may bracket Stevens with
Roosevelt. That benefactor has doubled
the national debt and is proposing to
spend another $5,000,000,000,000, mostly
borrowed, having—after the doubling—
nearly 13,000,000 unemployed on his
hands. The Roosevelt-SteVens financial
god is that rather exploded theorist
J. M. Keynes.
Nearly all the provincial politicians
bound for Melbourne and the Loan
Council meetings declared that, even if
huge sums had to be raised for defence
and £72,000,000 had to be converted, they
couldn’t scratch a penny off their loan
schedules, being in favor of “a bold
borrowing policy.” Is it really bold at
such a time to run up huge bills for
vote-catching “works” and bequeath
them to the kids? “As bold as brass”
perhaps ; but the kids may regard it as
cowardly.
Butler to his fellow-Premiers and to the
too-urbane Casey, who is always so out-
spoken when the mischief is done:
During the six years to June 30, 1937,
the public debt of New South Wales in-
creased by 22.67 per cent, and the popula-
tion by 5.41 per cent. Figures for the other
States are: Victoria, 7.81 per cent, and
3.12 per cent.; Queensland, 11.42 p.c. and
7.04 p.c.; South Australia, 7.97 p.c. and
2.24 p.c.; Westralia, 20.59 p.c. and 5.10
p.c.; Tasmania, 9.85 p.c. and 3.70 p.c.
Let it stand to the credit of this South
Australian that he is the one man who
pleaded for restraint in the market-place
which the Loan Council has become.
Like Lord Roberts he “pleaded, and was
not heard.”
The Treasurer’s office at Brisbane has
been swept and garnished for its first oc-
cupant since the late “Bishop” Barnes
had to vacate it in 1932. Hitherto Pre-
mier Forgan Smith has kept the bawbees
under his own eye, and has used the
Chief Secretary’s room. Cooper, formerly
Assistant Treasurer, has been promoted
to the full job. He won’t have to manage
without loan money, and by one of
those “semi-Governmental” arrangements
which, as Casey now discovers, “threaten
the financial structure of Australia”
(though he never opposes them) Brisbane
City Council is t 6 get another million.
Politicians always exempt themselves
from the age-limits they impose on other
“Crown employees”; but if the S.A.
Country Labor group has its way and
its proposal is generally adopted they
will have to retire at 65. State
Governors, too. S.A. had a Lang Labor
“party” in the mad years, but it is now
extinct; and Lang, who will be 65 in
1941, is positively not going to emigrate
to S.A.
Arguing that Parliament was no place
for old men, a delegate to the Country
Labor conference at Burra (S.A.) men-
tioned the case of a Leg. Councillor who
was returned in March, saying that he
was 73, and that unless Butler’s consti-
tutional “reform” measure was reformed
out of existence he would be 83 before
he had to stand again. Three or four
days later, McCallum, one of the mem-
bers at whom the resolution was aimed,
was found dead at the wheel of his car.
lie was 78.
One of the brigade of ill-informed cor-
respondents whose rubbish is shot into
Australian papers discovered the other
day that Roosevelt had approved of a
Democratic M.H.R.’s plan for naming
“Germany, Italy and Japan” as
aggressors, and “requesting the President
to call a convention at which an official
international boycott would be advo-
cated.” Next day the President scotched
the story, saying, among other things,
that his Government “believes in the pro-
motion of world peace through the
friendly solution of controversies” and
that it viewed the Anglo-Italian agree-
ment “with sympathetic interest” because
“it is proof of the value of peaceful nego-
tiations.” In these matters the President
remembers that he is running a great
“For the next elections Labor must have a Federal director of organisation to prepare
a co-ordinated plan.”— Makin, M.H.R.
"Listen, you. I’m going to be the Federal director of organisation, and I’ve
got the plan in my pocket.”
nation and not a silly warmongering
flapper paper.
Reported that a battalion of Polish
Jews is fighting for the “Government” in
Spain or making good time towards the
Pyrenees. It must be true, for in an
incautious moment it was published in
one of the papers which inform their
public that the only foreigners fighting
in Spain are the Germans and Italians
and Moors who make up Franco’s
armies. And it perhaps accounts for
the passionate partisanship of Mr.
Emanuel Shinwell and the Briddish
Labor party.
Australia has known John Chinaman
for a century, and, while respecting his
virtues, has learned that he is ho fighting
man. But denationalised newspapers
which take their inspiration from Geneva,
Moscow and London persist in re-
garding John as a woqderful fighter, and
have been awarding him magnificent vic-
tories over the Japanese. The Japanese
version is that the victories are as imagi-
nary as the design attributed to them by
the denationalised newspapers and their
sources of misinformation —nothing less
than the conquest of all China.
Great Dailies refused even to publish
Japanese statements (though marked
“official”) that the Chinese “victories”
were invented at the Kuomintang Con-
gress which began its sittings at the end
of March. The same Great Dailies now
admit that the Chinese have retired from
places where the invaders suffered their
most frightful disasters, and appearances
are that the war will become back-stage
stuff again.
Latest figures give Darwin a popula-
tion of 1950, exclusive of abos.: only
1149 are whites. Parap runs to 324
whites out of a total of 581 ; Borroloola
to 50 out of 98. At Roper River half-
castes outnumber whites by 44 to 26.
Further south it is better: Tennant
Creek has 628 people, of whom 11 are
Asiatics and 28 half-breeds.
It is doubtless kind of Tas. Premier
Ogilvie and his elderly Treasurer to take
such a bustling, if belated, interest in
the defence of the nation ; but their pro-
posals have the weaknesses characteristic
of the plans of irresponsible enthu-
siasts. Mr. Gray, who has reached his
sixty-seventh year without ever having
handled a weapon more lethal than a
mouse-trap, demands “immediate and
vigorous action to make Australia safe
within 12 months,” and he is sure that
it could be done “by an expenditure of
a sum approaching £100,000,000.” *lf
mere expenditure could do the business,
Britain and the U.S.A. would be as
safe as houses; but it is obvious that
their Governments don’t feel that way.
Government control of transport in
the interests of Government ownership
has given itself a dreadful advertisement
in the County of Cumberland (N.S.W.).
Last week taxis couldn’t be got for love
or money ; trams staggered by, leaving
knots of cursing people on street corners,
and train services broke down egregiously
on Saturday and Monday. Thousands
of people who wanted to go to the Rich-
mond air pageant were delivered hours
late at Richmond and Sydney, and many
never saw it. Yet the Railway Depart-
ment had two months’ warning that
stacks of special trains would be re-
quired, and had been informed in the
meantime that 170,000 people had at-
tended an air pageant in Melbourne.
One of the periodical strikes on the
Kurrawang woodlines, whence the
Golden Mile gets its fuel, ended in an
original way. The amount in dispute was
£450, and the employers offered to pay
it to the Kalgoorlie Government hos-
pital, provided the strikers contributed
another ss. apiece from their next pay.
They agreed and went back to work. ;
The Kurrawang strike shook the West-
ralian Labor Government’s hold on
Hannans, the late Mines Minister Munsie’s
old seat. Labor has never lost Hannans,
but this time its majority at the by-elec-
tion was only 99. Had it been the othet
way, Government and Opposition
would have been equal on the floor of
the Assembly.
Continuing to revise history, the “D.T.”
discovers that a Nazi paper has likened
Hitler to Barbarossa, “a famous Turkish
pirate.” Strange that the ‘‘D.T.” never
heard of the previous Barbarossa, who
was King of Germany and Burgundy and
Roman Emperor, and whom Carlyle de-
scribes as a “magnificent, magnanimous
man.” Strange, because that Barbarossa,
like the “D.T.,” was keen on crusading—
though not by deputy—and on his
second crusade was drowned.
Tenderers for Sydney County Council
contracts continue to quote the same
prices, and County Councillors have had
the gall to suggest that the Common-
wealth Government should wipe out the
Protection they receive. It would be
better to wipe out the County Council.
The equal-price jest would scarcely be
attempted but for the general impression
that the County Council is a bad joke.
Commonwealth Auditor - General
Brown finds it “difficult to avoid the con-
clusion that many war pensions have
been granted in respect of disabilities
which have no connection with war ser-
vice.” On Anzac Day, other people found
it as difficult to avoid the conclusion
that the nation ought to be doing more
for ill-clad, ill-nourished and prematurely-
old ex-soldiers than it is doing.
Sydney “D.T.,” giving Australia lead-
ership again:
Imagine a book about A 1 Capone,
written by a survivor of the St. Valen-
tine’s Day massacre and dedicated to
“Legs” Diamond. That is the sort of
book I Knew Hitler is.
And that’s the sort of calculated insult
which may be remembered to Australia’s
injury when the “D.T.” is forgotten. It
appeared in a column which quoted with
approval the vaunt of some ass that the
defence of Madrid by an armed mob of
Reds was the greatest military achieve-
ment of all time.
“Terewth,” reviewing the Loan Coun-
cil proceedings, is satisfied on the follow-
ing points:
The people of Australia are completely
under the domination of the Common-
wealth Bank Board. Nobody realises this
more than the State Premiers, who had
to accept the board’s ultimatum and got
nothing like what they expected.
Total elimination of unemployed in all
the principal industrial centres will be en-
compassed by the N.S.W. Government as
a result of the Loan Council allocations....
A great new era of prosperity and pro-
gress will open up in the near future.
N.S.W., in addition to securing the juiciest
of the general loan morsels, obtained
approval for huge borrowings by semi-
Governmental bodies.
Loan money has been secured at a ter-
rific price. Up to, 1935 our public debt
was £1,262,871,884. We are still paying
over 5 p.c. for some of that money. That
interest has been going on for years and
will go on when most of us are dead.
A truly noble example of boxing the
compass.


OVER THE TOP AGAIN.


He’s happy because his
savings are safe and earned
over 6% last year.
YOU, too, can be happy and secure by
investing your savings in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
which are backed by the shares of 20 of
Australia’s leading Companies, held by
the Custodian Trustees of the Trust:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write or ’phone to-day for Descriptive
Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the
Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
mi! 1 siiwa
Nf
INCOME
CHEQUE
K:
ivisten in to the “Romance of Industry "
session each Wednesday night at 9.30
from 2 ÜBf.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
® Could, your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age 7 If the answer
is “No" lust consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for wlial little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD..
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
ftranrh Offices:
Victoria : A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building. 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Some May birthdays:
Vic. Crown Prosecutor C. H. Book, 43, on
Ist; former N.S.W. Senator Charles Cox, 75,
and Prof. J. R. Wilton (Adel.), 54, on 2nd;
Gerald Lightfoot (sec., C.S. and 1.R.), 61,
Justice Rich (High Court), 75, and Prof. T. H.
Laby (Melb.), 58, on 3rd; C. L. A. Abbott
(Administrator, North Australia), 52, Prof. John
McKellar Stewart (Adel.), 60, on 4th; Justice
Bavin (N.S.W.), 64, and Douglas Mawson, 56,
on sth; Bishop Fox (Wilcannia-Forbes), 45, on
6th; Harold Clapp (Vic. Railways Commis-
sioner), 63, on 7th; S.A. Gov. Maj.-Gen. Sir
Winston Dugan, 61, and James Ashton (Syd.),
74, on Bth; Dr. George Mackaness, 56, T. H.
Scholfield, M.H.R. (Wannon), 44, Bishop Burg-
mann (Goulburn), 53, and S.A. Senator Oliver
Uppill 62, on 9th; knight Claude H. Read-
ing, 64, and author N. F. Spielvogel (Vic.),
64, on 10th; Q’land Senator Codings, 73, on
Uth; Bishop Johnson (Ballarat), 49, on 12th;
Bishop James (St. Arnaud), 61, on 13th;
former S.A. Premier Lionel Hill, 57, and Prof.
J. J. Stable (Q.), 55, on 14th; Q. Chief Justice
Blair, 67, and C. A. S. Hawker, M.H.R.
(Wakefield), 44, on 16th; poet Leon Gellert,
46, and Q. Min. for Works and Education
H. A. Bruce, 53, on 17th; Dr. P. R. Cole
(Syd. Teachers’ Coll.), 59, artist W. B. Mclnnes,
49, Assistant Federal Minister J. A. Perkins,
60, and authoress Zora Cross, on 18th; A. H.
Stuart (gen. manager “S. M. Herald”), 45, on
19th; Vic. Senator Gibson, 69, F. J. Rae
(Director Melb. Botanical Gardens), 55, and
H. E. Boote (editor “Aust. Worker”), 70, on
20th; former Q. Railways Commissioner David-
son, 66, on 21st; Justice Parsons (S.A.), 66,
Judge Beeby, 69, former N.S.W. Min. for
Lands Buttenshaw, 62, on 23rd; Justice Pike
(Federal Territory Land Commissioner), 72, on
25th; Senate President Lynch, 71, on 26th;
knight Arthur Cocks (Syd.), 76, Brig-Gen.
McNicoll (Administrator of New Guinea),
61, ex-Judge Backhouse (N.S.W.), 87, on 28th;
W.A. Min. for Agric. F. J. S. Wise, 41, on
30th; Q. Senator and Minister for Repat. Foil,
48, on 31st.
Judge Rutherford, erstwhile of Holly-
wood, chief of the Witnesses of Jehovah
and a pillar of the Watch Tower Bible
and Tract Society, is visiting Australia to
get in touch with his adherents in this
part of the world and, presumably, to do
a spot of proselytising. He comes with
a prophetic message that Armageddon
is at hand, with the utter destruction of
civilisation and a particularly sticky time
generally for scoffers and unbelievers.
JUDGE RUTHERFORD.
Such sections of the Australian citizenry
as have heard the Judge’s fulminations to
date seem to have been singularly un-
moved. All Frith could remember about
the prophet, outside the cut of his jib,
when he came back from one of the lec-
tures, was ‘hat Rutherford sports a
scarlet tie.
In 1908 the Auckland (M.L.) Tram-
way Co. brought F. E. de Guerrier from
England as chief engineer for their
newly-electrified system. He came with
a return ticket, but liked the town,
the job and the people, and his one-year
contract lengthened to five years
and then to ten. Finally De Guerrier
decided to devote to M.L. for the
rest of his life the experience he had
gained in Lancashire, Spain and India.
When in the last-named country he de-
veloped a taste fqr mountaineering. and
did some lofty climbing in Kashmir. The
Southern Alps have seen a lot of him,
and he is one of the select band of Alpine
Sports dub members who have con-
quered Cook. The Auckland tramways
passed under control of the City Council
years ago, and now are vested in a Trans-
port Board, but De Guerrier cared not
who owned the tramways so long as he
engineered ’em. Now, at 65, he has to
retire.
Starting on 4s. a week as a 13-year-old
apprentice to a carpenter, William Brun-
ton, dead in Melbourne at 71, was man-
aging director by 1918 of the large hard-
ware business of Currie and Richards,
which he joined six years after he began
to be a carpenter. He became a Mel-
bourne City Councillor in 1913, and col-
lected the customary knighthood after-
having been Lord Mayor from 1923 to
1926, in which period Melbourne had
a Town Hall fire and a police strike.
Besides looking after his own business,
he was chairman of London Stores, Ltd.,
and the Australian Advertising Co. and
a director of the Metropolitan Gas Co.
A keen bowler, he had been president of
the V.B.A. for nearly 13 years.
A long, lean, typical Anzac, Major
A. D. Reid, M.C., late of the Ist Light
Horse, Country party member for
Young, becomes N.S.W. Minister for
Agriculture. He was a lieutenant on the
first of the troopships to leave Australia,
was wounded at Gallipoli, took a hand at
Beersheba, the Jordan Valley and
Damascus. A farmer of the Crowther
district, he won the Young seat in 1927,
lost it in 1930, regained it in 1932 and
has held it ever since. To date his most
notable Parliamentary effort has been
the fight he put up for the Digger prune-
growers and other orchardists of N.S.W.
W. B. Slade, dead in Queensland at
95, was the last of the great Australian
stud-masters of the ’seventies. Born in
1843, he left Sherborne School to come
to Australia in 1861, and soon made for
the Darling Downs, where he was typical
of the English county family squires
who ruled that rich bit of territory. In
1876, after several years of station
experience, he joined C. H. Marshall
as a partner in the 42,000-acre Glen-
gallan sheep and cattle stud, which
was almost as old as the Queensland
pastoral industry, having been
founded in 1842. The partnership
was celebrated by the purchase
of the 1000-guinea Mt. Gilead bull
Royal Purple 1., whose blood made the
Shorthorn stud the premier one of
Queensland for many years. Other sta-
tions became Slade properties—Glenelg,
Ellengowan and Blink Bonnie, a few miles
out of Warwick, where he lived till near
his death.
W. B. Slade was a man’s man, who
ran his properties with an old-time air of
dignity, and, though he made money, he
gave much of it away to his district. He
gave Warwick its Slade school, Zingari
Cricket Club and Slade Park, and, in an
•earlier day, played a sound game him-
self. The Anglican Church and the
D.D. show societies largely benefited
through his activity and generosity, an
he was the oldest member of the Queens-
land Club, which he joined in 1875.
Charles Longden/ of Brisbane, has
had his first illness after enduiing the
local climate for 70 years. The ill-
ness didn’t interfere with his cus-
tomary reception of visitors at his
annual birthday party, but he admitted
to feeling a little shaky on the legs. The
birthday was his 106th. He served with
the Royal Engineers in the war—-that is,
the Crimean War of 1854 —and after
10 years of varied experiences in many
lands came to Brisbane in the 1860’s as
an officer in charge of immigrants. After
a spell at Bulimba—it then had one house
and four fishermen’s huts—he provided
Brisbane with the greatest traffic sensa-
tion of its history, in the shape of a regu-
lar line of 15-passenger buses, splendidly
horsed and operated at a speed and fre-
quency which revolutionised suburban
communications as then existing. Many
an elderly Brisbane citizen wishes that
Lud Mayor Jones and his merry men
would make half as good a job of it.
Newly-appointed Surveyor-General of
S.A., Clive Melville Hambidge, was born
in Adelaide in 1888, and joined the S.A.
Survey Department at 19 as a cadet.
In a year he was head cadet; two
years later an assistant surveyor. At 23
he received his surveyor’s license. An
appointment to the Land Board came in
1926 ; deputy-chairmanship of the board
C. L. HAMBIDGE.
10 years later, and in the meantime Ham-
bidge had become a member of the
Council of the Commonwealth Institute
of Valuers and chairman of the Pastoral
Board.
Among the many annual reports which
go each year to swell the bulging pigeon-
holes of Canberra, one can always be
relied upon to be presented in literary
style. Lieut.-Governor Hubert Murray
is a first-class descriptive writer, and
his latest effort shows no decadence of
either material or treatment. Wizards,
tailed men, child marriages, strange
methods of native agriculture, oil pros-
pecting and aviation enliven its pages.
John Hubert Plunkett Murray, elder
brother of that other great Australian
Gilbert Murray, is no mere bookworm,
though. He won the Queensberry ama-
teur heavyweight boxing championship
of England before returning to his native
land and law. The Boer War made a
British major of him. Since 1904 he has
carried on the splendid tradition of Wil-
liam MacGregor in Papua.
Few Australian businessmen have gone
as far and done as much in two months
and one week as H. P. Williams, 56-year-
old head of the Melbourne jewellery and
watchmaking house of Dunkling. In
that time he has just completed the
H. P. WILLIAMS.
round-trip to England by air ; he flew to
Berlin, Amsterdam, Paris and Geneva,
attended the British Industries’ Fair and
the one in Leipzig, bought thousands of
pounds’ worth of diamonds for the Aus-
tralian market and obliged the 8.8. C.
with a 15-minute talk to the Empire on
the London Fair. But he’s been bustling
all his life. Born in Carlton, he entered
the jewellery’ business as a boy and
joined the Dunkling firm in 1900. He
was a partner by 1918, and when William
Dunkling died about 12 years ago he
acquired his interests, too. Now there
are a couple of Melbourne shops and
one in Perth, the latter being conducted
by two of six sons. He also owns to four
daughters, three grandchildren and a
staff of nearly 100 ; he’s a member of
the V.R.C., the V.A.T.C. and Moonee
Valley—and doesn’t bet.
Acting on doctor’s orders, 32-year-old
D. S. Colman, who became head of Mel-
bourne Grammar in 1936, has resigned
the job to return to England. A nephew by
marriage of Archbishop Head, he’s an
old Shrewsbury and Oxford man who
went back to his school as a classics
master in 1928, and returned to his uni-
versity in 1931 as a Fellow of Queen’s
College. He was again a Shrewsbury
master when appointed to succeed R. P.
Franklin at Melbourne. Vic. education-
ists are sorry to lose one for whom
they have been predicting a great Mel-
bourne future, and Grammar’s rowing
lads regret the going of a head able to
wield an oar in their Yarra tryouts.
General president of the A.J.A. in the
year when a new metropolitan daily
newspaper award must replace the one
which expires on May 31, Gavin Green-
lees, now with the Murdoch “Herald,”
is one of the quietest leaders the A.J.A.
has had—and one of the most deter-
mined. Back of a sound organising
ability, he has that knowledge of condi-
tions and professional wants gained only
by varied personal experience of Sydney
and Melbourne journalism. The name is
a familiar one to most Australian news-
papermen ; those who haven’t met Gavin
know brother George (Sydney “Daily
Telegraph”), or brother Dick (Melbourne
“Sun-News Pictorial”).
Only exhibitor at the Sydney Centenary
Show of 1888 who was exhibiting at this
year’s Royal Show was W. R. Hind-
marsh, of Alnwick, Robertson (N.S.W.),
who has seldom failed to make an entry
in 50 years. He has been exhibiting Aus-
tralian Illawarra Shorthorns, which he
breeds, since 1896. This year his cow%
Daisy IX. of Alnwick, won her third
successive championship.


Its Sm o **
tirSi^ e
Ajldh
a
*
NOW IN
TINS
OF
20„.1fc
ALSO LAUBE BOXES 10-9?
FLAT & ROUND 50’s AND 100’s
I'T
ff
76348-4-8


ABORIGINALITIES
“Turoar”: “Tarry Tom was th’ best
man we ever ’ad in our church,” Old
Bob said. “Things wasn’t goin’ too good,
an’ th’ parson reckons ’e ain’t drivin no
twenty mile juster git three or four treys
in th’ plate. So ’e calls a public meetin’,
an’ Tarry’s nommernated treasurer.
After that, cripes, th’ ’tendance jumps
up till we’re giftin’ ninety-six there ev’ry
Sundee reg’lar. Th’ parson’s dead pleased,
an’ wants ter know ’ow Tarry does it.
Well, it’s quite simple when yer works
it out. Yer see, th’ parson always 'as
four ’ymns, an’ there’s er thousan’ ’yrnns
in our ’ymnbook. Tarry reckons out
th’ four ’ymns with th’ ’ighest dijits is
999, 998, 989 an’ 899. Add them dijits
up an’ yer gits 105. Them with th’
smallest dijits is 1,2, 3 an’ 4, which
adds up ter 10. So ev’ry week Tarry
writes out 96 tickets frum 10 ter 105 an’
sells ’em ter th’ congergashun at er bob
a time. ’E draws th’ sweep on Saterdee
night, an’ nobody knows wot won till th'
parson puts ’is numbers up on Sundee.
Tarry keeps back er quid for cleric ex-
penses ; th’ winner takes th’ rest. It
works wunnerful, but when Tarry tells
’im the parson sacks ’im frum treasurer
an’ says ’e’s turnin’ th’ church inter er
den uv thieves, which ain’t c’rect, fer
Tarry conducks th’ sweep all square an’
sergarnio, an’ always shouts fer th’ boys
outer ’is quid. O’ course, all th’ blokes
lose inf rest after that, an’ soon we’re
back be’ind th’ pub on Sundees spinning
th’ browns like we useter before th’
revival.”
* *
“Walkabout”: “Insomnia be hanged! ”
snorted the old boundary-rider. “Yer
don’t know what goin’ without sleep is.
When I come here first 1 never slept fer
weeks ; the howl of a dingo or the noise
of a grasshopper crawlin’ on the roof
would keep me awake all night. But I
cured meself easy. Durin’ a dry time,
with the nearest water 20 miles away,
an’ me with only a few gallons left in me
ship’s tank, hang me if a blasted frog
don’t start me insomnia again by croakin
all night. ‘l’ll fix yer,’ I says, an’ roll-
in’ the tank over I let all the water run
out and got the frog. And then I woke
up that I’d have to go 20 miles to get
water fer breakfast. That knocked the
imagination outa me, an’ I’ve been
sleepin’ like a top ever since.”
“Granova”: Visitors to the Tumba-
rumba (N.S.W.) district are incredulous
when told that the stones stand on end
during the severe frosts, but it actually
happens. Owing to some freak of con-
traction stones about 3in. or 4in. long and
1 in. to 2in. thick upend and are held in
position by icicles. In stony ground the
soil is loosened up as though it has been
cultivated by the movements of stones
below the surface, but not deeper in the
soil than the frost has penetrated.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The Westralian
wheatbelt furnishes a fine example of the
erratic nature of our rainfall. I’ye
watched clouds carry badly-needed rain
over crops and dump it half a mile away,
and strips of hail-damaged crops 50ft.
wide are common. The impression holds
that rock outcrops and big belts of timber
attract rain, but my investigations indi-
cate that they take their turn with the
rest of the country. An illuminating yarn
goes that a miner, lost for days in the
bush, at last got his bearings and stag-
gered, exhausted, towards his camp. As
he collapsed at his tent the storm burst,
and washed him away down the gully to
a watery grave. The dog, unable to make
the last 100 yards, died of thirst out in
the drought area.
* * * *
“Dougal”: Who says the spirit of
Izaak Walton is no more? For weeks
workmen employed on the Nedlands
“He WOULD go down to the Show and watch the cowboys throw the bulls!"
(W.A.) foreshore reclamation scheme
have been taking it in relays to work
next the outlet of the'suction dredge. A
swipe with a shovel in the shallows behind
the retaining wall is quite as effective as
rod or line. A recent morning haul
totalled 100 cobbler, flounder and flat-
head. The record tally for an eight-hour
day is over 200.
# ❖ * *
“Kellick”: I'll back the eye as the
most inconsistent of the human organs.
Put an expert naval rangetaker on to an
object of known range, cover the range-
scale so as to prevent “fudging,” and I’ll
guarantee —on an average—that, out of
ten “cuts,” at least seven different ranges
are obtained. Probably the differences
would be no more than 200 yards at
10,000, but the fact remains that, as far
as the eye is concerned, each individual
“cut” would be perfect.
* * * *
“Mac Fergus”: Over 20 years ago a
Bulletin par. claimed a horse-breaker’s
record for Florence O’Sullivan, of
Taroorn (W.Q.). At eighty-odd, Florrie,
of male gender and complete with ear-
rings, still throws the tackle on young
’uns, and turns out a galloper or two at
local races. Enlisting for active service,
he put in some time at Enoggera camps
as mounted-orderly. Charged with mis-
stating his age on his attestation papers,
Florrie blamed an otherwise perfect
memory for the lapse.
* * * *
“Chip-flier”: I’m camped in an open
spot on the Jimna Range (Q.). One hun-
dred yards away five brother broad-axe-
men camped for nine months undei a
forked flooded gum. A couple of years
ago a falling limb from another tree split
the big fork down about six feet. With
every storm it opens a little further. Now
the men have gone and the tree will go
any minute, too. At the last camp these
same men camped under ancient wild
apples and collected only half a dozen
small, harmless limbs. There seems to
be a special Providence for bushmen.
*■ * * *
“C.J.R.”: Log-and-post-splitting Abo-
des seem to have forgotten that most use-
ful instrument the small, light bar, or
perhaps they stoically carry on without
one. When the log is opened, the last
wedge buried, and it still remains unsplit,
insert bar, lay back and heave. It never
fails, and it saves a gapped axe from
hacking about among hidden wedges. In-
cidentally, any mug who’d use a cumber-
some, top-heavy maul in preference to a
71b. steel striking hammer has never split
posts on contract.
❖ * *
“L’F.”: Grape-picking at Mildura,
Renmark and similar settlements is
nearly over, and many a worker of no
fixed abode, and others of most diverse
callings, will leave the vineyards with
eyes brighter, steps lighter, systems toned
up and some of the grouch gone from
their minds. The open-air life, steady
stretching and bending exercises, semi-
sunbathing and an unlimited fruit diet
act as a tonic and rejuvenator. In a
railway-carriage of men leaving a pick-
ing centre one claimed to have lost
rheumatism of long standing, another
that his sight had “improved a treat.”
Another, who did not admit to anything
wrong, merely remarked that “it makes
yer feel youngerlike.” The pity is that
grapes should be such an unobtainable
luxury to most of outback Australia.
* * * *
“Hanko”: I’ve had magpies and
garrulous honeyeaters assist me many a
time in a snake-hunt, but a red Leghorn
rooster was an. unexpected helper in a
chase after a copperhead. And he was
dead in earnest about it, too ; so much
so that he interrupted a hefty whack l
aimed at the slitherer. Thereupon, sore,
sick and sorry, Chanticleer retired to the
shade of a pepperina, his interest in the
massacre of the reptile gone with the
flush from his gills.
* # * *
“Huglow”: “ Langshan ” has his
butcher-bird all wrong when he labels
him a practical joker (B. 23/3/’3B). I
have watched these birds at the same
tactics, but I stayed on to watch the
results of his “chortles.” Billy didn’t
hunt his victims away for his own enter-
tainment but because he had designs on
the blossoms they were sampling; and
his chortles were not of glee but merely
calls to his spouse and family to come
and enjoy the nectar he had found for
them.
* * * *
“Kerriki”: The local dominie started
the ball rolling by asking the kids
whether it took more fencQ-posts to
cover a given distance on the level or
up and down a hill. Most of the kids
naturally plumped for the hill, but Mr.
Ghalkie disillusioned them with a
diagram showing that equally-spaced
posts would cover the same distance
irrespective of grade. Knowing the prob-
lem of old, some of us took sides with
him, but the old hands wouldn’t hear of
the idea, and demanded a practical test.
A rectangular paddock, with undulating
ground at one end, provided a suitable
field, and, sure enough, it took a dozen
more posts to get over the irregularities
in the ground that end compared with the
level corresponding fence. Science would
have been blown out of court up our
way for ever had not Mr. Chalkie
remembered to check the distances be-
tween posts with a chain-tape and found
a decrease on the rises. The cause? Well,
fencers don’t carry precision mathe-
matical instruments, and distances be-
tween posts on a grade are just measured
at the same incline instead of horizon-
tally.
* :J: * *
“Binatang”: The old belief that the
drinking of sea-water will cause mad-
ness to otherwise waterless castaways is
all my eye. Calling at Anir, a small
group of islands off the New Ireland
(T.N.G.) coast, we found three “boys”
from Ontong Java (Lord Howe group).
They were the only survivors of a canoe
expedition which had set out from there
for the Tasmans and were blown off
their course. The remainder refused to
drink sea-water and perished ; the others
drank it and saved their lives. Nor was
their reason affected.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: The sight of the average
amateur fisherman —and the average
female —cleaning fish with a blunt table-
knife and a pair of scissors moves the
expert to derision. A sharp knife alone
is necessary —and the fish should be held
by the head, not by the tail. Lay flat
and scale upwards. Then slip knife into
gill-opening and slit down to the vent.
A few slicks then remove the offal and
scrape the backbone. A cut next lops
the tail, another the head, and the fish,
after a quick rinse in brine, is ready for
the pan or the salt-cask.
“Vermin”: England has her animal
pests no less than Australia. A few
years ago the menace was the American
muskrat, which, introduced for fur-
breeding, distanced the famous rabbit
in the story as a lightning calculator. It
cost some hundreds of thousands to get
rid of the brute, and then the rabbit
came on deck and for a time became as
great a nuisance as in Australia. Now
it is the red deer; for long confined to
the Devon-Somerset moors, it has be-
come a curse in some of the south-
eastern counties. So thick are they in
West Sussex that farmers recently
organised a drive, and though many got
away numbers were killed. Apart from
the injury to the crops, it is feared that
the beasts help to spread the foot-and-
mouth disease epidemic which is deci-
mating cattle and sheep in all but half
a dozen English counties. In the same
way the wild buck in South Africa
spread the rinderpest from the Zambesi
to the Cape in the ’nineties in spite of
all efforts at quarantine.
A TALE OF WOE.
My father was a captain
In ships of sail and steam;
And all his life my fa'ther kept
Within his heart a dream.
My father was a captain
In ships of island trade;
And all his life my father loved
A brown Tahiti maid.
1 heard my father’s story —
His glory and his shame —
, From one who wags a willing tongue,
Nor spares a dead man’s name.
And if the telling thrilled him,
The hearing thrilled me more;
I have a brown half-sister
On far Tahiti’s shore.
I will not tell my mother;
She could not rest or sleep;
I will not tell my Auntie Joan
For she would pray and weep.
I will not tell my uncle —
A prig, a prude, a churl —
But, oh, at night I think of her —
My father’s little girl!
Though I was born in wedlock,
And she was born in sin,
My father was her father, too,
And she and I are kin.
And I know that she remembers,
As I remember still,
His ship that never came to port—
His ship that never will!
She swims the blue Pacific
As I the millpond swim;
Barefoot she climbs the coco-palm
As I the maple-limb.
She plays with shells and corals
As I. with marbles play;
My lithesome, blithesome sister dear,
So many leagues away!
She plucks the frangipanni
As 1 the rambler rose;
She mocks the noisy tropic birds
As I the cawing crows.
Oh, I cannot tell my mother,
For she would not understand,
But I have dreamed my dreams at night
As 1 by day have planned.
When schooldays lie behind me,
1 too must southward fare;
I shall not speak to anyone
Of why I go, or where.
But when my ship drops anchor
In a bay all rose and pearl,
[’ll find my brown half-sister there —
My father’s little girl!
QUEENSLAND.
L. M. D. O'Neil.


“Nordbo”: Few North Queenslanders
take kindly to nigger-driving tactics.
The better worker the man is, the mqre
he resents undue bossing. In Cairns
(N.Q.) recently a number of men were
shovelling coal under the cold and
constant eye of a tactless foreman. Fed
iip at one straightened his back.
“Say, Bill,” he addressed the ganger,
“what about subbing me a few bob and
giving me five minutes off?” “What
for?” was the curt inquiry. “Just want
to slip over to the saddler’s. Thought
you’d like to have a whip.” The hint
brought up a sudden thunderstorm, but
when this had passed the atmosphere
was clearer.
* * * *
“Wang”: An old cocky I knew had his
own way of telling whether an applicant
for a job would suit him or not. Hang-
ing on to a ferocious-looking tyke, he
would meet the applicant a few yards
from the house. “Hop it,” he’d yell,
“before I let th’ dog loose on yer.” One
look at the evil-visaged canine was
usually enough for the caller, and he’d
make a retreat to the main road, a couple
of hundred yards away. If he put up a
Postle-like effort he’d be hailed as he
reached the road, “Hi, come back ; y’
can start right away if y’ wanter.” “Y’
see,” he explained to me one day when
1 happened to witness one of these per-
formances, “I on’y want chaps what’s
“Hey, ez Cap'n gone ’ome t ’ breakfus' ye t?”
got plenty of go an’ energy in ’em, an’
a stunt like this gen’ally proves whether
they have or not.”
* * * *
“Mark Over”: The quality of the gun
aside, I would say that for all-round
Australian shooting from a 12-bore
nothing can beat No. 4 shot. If the
weapon is a 16, No. 6 is the pea. With
No. 4 any brand of fowl, from the big
black-and-white geese of the N.Q.
lagoons to the plain turkey, can be
downed with little chance of getting
away wounded—that nightmare of every
decent sportsman. For birds like snipe
and quail Nos. 8 to 10 are indicated. 1
have known good shots who swore by
No. 2 for geese, but have always
thought it a fad unjustified by fact. Of
course I am assuming that a real gun
and not a gaspipe is used.
"This the way to the station?"
“Railway or police ?”
“J.D.H.”: Would like to know how
“Bushy Park” (B. 6/4/’3B) managed to
have trouble with a swinglebar half-way
down a hill. The bar takes the whole
weight of the vehicle and load up a hill,
but there is no strain at all on it coming
down.
V * *
“Yarragundry”: “Jeak’s” sheep-shift-
ing motor-lorry (B. 6/4/’3B) doesn’t hold
the record for size. C. Condon, of Wagga
(N.S.W.), takes stock to the yards in a
lorry which carries 350 sheep or 24
grown cattle when loaded. He charges
a flat rate of 3s. per mile, which is
cheaper than droving ; moreover, stock
can be left in the paddock until sale
morning, and they are not knocked about
by motor traffic. This latter is becoming
so acute, particularly on the south side
of the river (Sturt Highway), that the
shires and P.P. Board concerned want
two roads, one for traffic only, the other
for stock.
* * . * *
“Scratch”: Champion itch, is it (B.
13/4/’38)? Let me enter the tiny red
spider of Papua for the world’s title.
Five minutes in jungle or grass country
will see the hapless traveller covered
with this parasite, which burrows into
the flesh at once, setting up an intolerable
itching. Once the beast has sunk his
shaft relief is difficult. A favorite
remedy in the old days was to smear
the skin with coal-tar soap, which every
store kept as a matter of course. In bad
country the sophisticated applied a coat
of this to legs and arms before setting
out on the morning walkabout, and it
helped in keeping them off.
“Colly”: Never heard of foxes eating
walnuts (B. 6/4/’3B), but don’t doubt it.
They’ll come at anything. Last summer
they carried out nocturnal raids on the
plum windfalls in our mid-west N.S.W.
orchard. When other prey was scarce
owing to drought, they lived almost en-
tirely on grasshoppers. They’ll also eat
beetles, moths and cockroaches. In Eng-
land and France, the latter especially,
fruit is a regular item on their menu.
* * * *
“Puffinus”: After a lifelong friend-
ship with all bush birds, a Ramsay (Q.)
resident is at last convinced of the in-
herent wickedness and profound ingrati-
tude of at least one specimen of the
Australian raven, miscalled crow, to the
physical and moral detriment of an inno-
cent and useful bird. The villainess in
the piece had built her nest on the top
of a tall tree near the house and had
been treated as a personal friend of the
family. She repaid hospitality by felo-
niously entering a bedroom, stealing a
dental plate and carry-
ing it off to the nest.
The tree was too dan-
gerous to climb, and the
only way to recover the
grinders was to fell it,
much against the
owner’s wish. Expert
axemanship dropped
the top into long grass,
and the teeth were re-
covered undamaged.
The sable miscreant,
accompanied by her
alleged husband and a
few friends, watched
the proceedings, utter-
ing derisive and abusive
“Gwarr-gwarrs” and
“Korr - korrs,” and
wound up with an
attempted raid on the
chicken-yard.
* * *
“Captain Pintle”: I
feel sure that which-
ever of Noah’s sons
acted as mate found
the elephants the most
troublesome job on his
hands. A famous story
of the Queensland
coast was that of the
circus arriving at the Mackay anchorage
aboard the Wyreema in thickish weather.
The preocupied mate, looking out from
the eyes of her for the fairway buoy in
anticipation of the order to let go, was
disturbed by the carpenter loudly accus-
ing the bos’n of having pulled his hair.
Hastily restoring order, he held out the
key of the patent winch behind his back
and peered again for the buoy. The
key was taken, by the carpenter as he
naturally assumed, but when the order
came to let go it couldn’t be found ; the
carpenter denied all knowledge of it,
and amidst perorations from the indig-
nant skipper the ship had to make a
fresh swing. It subsequently appeared
that an elephant on the forward deck
had been responsible in both cases and
had dropped the key overboard. The
latest illustration of elephantine humor
was on a trans-Tasman trip of the Wan-
ganella, when an elephant passenger
reached through the chief steward’s
cabin port and dropped all his bedding
overboard.
“Physalia”: Southern anglers who
want a change from rods and reels and
smelly baits ought to come up to N.Q.
and do a bit of waddy-fishing. A steady
horse and a flexible five-foot sapling
comprise the outfit, and as the sport is
a wet-season one there is not much need
to worry about clothes. When the
lagoons and billabongs fill up the barra-
inundi get out of the deep creek and
river channels after the little fish in the
shallower water. The sportsman keeps
a sharp lookout for the big fellows’
back-fins sticking up or the swirl of
their bodies. When one is sighted in
practicable depth he navigates his trusty
steed so as to get between it and the
creek, drives it into the shallows and
outs it with the waddy, provided the
horse doesn’t come down in a gutter
or the sportsman doesn’t fall off. They
run up to 501 b., and a good morning’s
catch will comprise half a dozen from
101 b. to 201 b. each.
* * * *
“Spare Walton”: The average fish is
probably a greater nark than the aver-
age sheep—and that is saying something.
Just when every fisherman and fishwife
(if that be the correct title) in Australia
was raising record sunburn and thirsts
trying to catch the heaviest marlin in
the Anniversary competition, the daddy
of the lot must come ashore and throw
in his marble at Twofold Bay (N.S.W.).
If the contrary brute had allowed itself
to be caught by one of the pot-hunters
it would have put up a record, not only
for the competition but for the world. A
black marlin, it weighed 12261 b. when
put on the scales of the Eden Big Game
Fishing Club. The world’s record is
held by Captain Mitchell, who landed
a tiddler of 9761 b. in M.L. waters some
years ago.
* * * *
“Marsh”: I’d prefer a holiday in
Hades with March-flies than a place in-
fested with the sandflies that inhabit s.-w.
Queensland during those times when the
Diamantina and Georgina rivers are in
flood. March-flies are slow-movers, and
present a good target for attack, but
neither man nor beast has a hope of
coping with the sundown and daylight
swarms of sandies, unless standing half
suffocated about a good smoky fire.
Horses will gallop for miles to gain the
shelter of the smoke, and during the
sandfly season horsetailers do their mus-
tering by lighting a fire and feeding it
with green branches in the early dawn.
In their frantic efforts to get well into
the smokescreen I’ve seen horses’ hoofs
burnt through standing on the hot coals.
In a bad sandfly season kangaroos die
in thousands, swellings from the bites
rendering them blind and helpless.
STRATEGY.
Said Ben: “The prad that gits so far in front
it looks a gift
Too often comes a thud. The race ain’t always
to the swift.
1 flopped one time through thinkin’ the reverse,
, though I don’t squeak.
Twas when they celebrated ‘Back to Tunna-
butta’ Week.
1 hey run a stunt by offerin’ a tenner to the
chap
Who d ave the best an’ thickest set o' whiskers
on is map
Within a month, an’ start from taws. With just
one day to go
Blind Freddie’ could’ve seen that on’y two ’as
got a show.
Thats me an’ Lanky Joe the cook; though
there's one picker-up
Who liked ’imself, but, ’struth, ’is ziff
... „ w 9 ul 1 d . ve disgraced a pup!
Well, judgin’ day 1 wakes to find that some-
one s cooked me goose—
Molasses through me whiskers, which is dyed
a brilliant puce!
1 m out of it, of course, an’ Joe, whose jokes
the whole shed knew,
Ts leading easy by a street—or was, until he
threw
The contents of a can to douse ’is fire, when
is moustache
An beard by petrol-boosted flames was just
rejooced to ash!
Twas some time later at the pub I ’eard a
stranger, shot,
Boastin ’e’d won a bet—the easiest quid ’e’d
ever got—
E’d not be game to pour some tack over a
joker’s mo. . . .
The picker-up? Yair, ’e’s the cow ’oo beat
us to the dough!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


HAVE YOU RETIRED
front
Business Activities?
If so, you may wish to be free from the worries
of investments, the collection of rents and in-
terest, or from the care and management of
real estate. The Trustees Executors and
Agency Company Limited, with nearly 60
years’ experience as Attorney and Agent can
be of invaluable assistance to you. Investigate
the possibilities by writing or calling upon
the Company at your convenience.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
C. AGE.V'C'Y COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria, June 14, 1878)
(Registered in New South Wales, 1907)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA, NOW IN ITS 60th YEAR
OF SERVICE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £955,806.
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE • 1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0..
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager : K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading. K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
W. D. Stewart. R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
The LUDOWSCI ALL-STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
Possesses much greater
STRENGTH RIGIDITY
ACCURACY LIGHTNESS
ACCESSIBILITY
J. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd.
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY, 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE
df
The [?]
COLUMN
Bank of Adelaide
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1928 .. 128,637 10 p.c. = 115,000 13,637 1,003,464
1929.. 145,410 10 „ ~ 125,000 20,410 1,023,874
1930 .. 138.108 9 ~ „ 112,500 25,608 1,049,482
1931.. 91,813 7 „„ 87,500 4,313 1,053,795
1932 . . 66,776 4 „ „ 50,000 16,776 1,070,571
Transferred to inner reserves, £30,000.. 1,040,571
1933.. 53,727 4 p.c. = 50,000 3.727 1,044.298
1934 . . 54,497 4 „ „ 50,000 4,497 1,048,795
Transferred to inner reserves, £25,000.. 1,023,795
1935 .. 55,201 4 p.c. = 50,000 5,201 1,028,996
1936 . . 57,973 4 „ 50,000 7,973 1,036,969
1937 . . 01,337 41 „ ~ 56,250 5,087 1,042,056
1938 . . 65,788 5 „ „ 62,500 3,288 1,045,344
There is not the profit in banking that
there used to be, owing largely to the
relatively low level of interest rates and
high and rising level of costs, including
taxation. The market for bank scrip,
therefore, remains very sensitive to any-
thing likely to retard the upward trend
of earnings. Chief cloud in the sky at
the moment is the proposal of the
Federal Government to introduce fresh
legislation based on the recommendations
of the Banking Commission. The two
bones around which the Treasury, Com-
monwealth Bank and trading banks are
stalking, all with their hackles up, are
labelled “compulsory deposits by trading
banks with central bank” and “central
bank’s right to trading banks’ London
funds.” Details of what the Government
proposes to do have not yet been broad-
cast, but the aim is to give the central
bank a statutory right to more effective
control of credit and exchange and in-
terest rates than it at present enjoys.
One objection to fixed minimum deposits
is that the trading banks would be com-
pelled to hold more idle cash, thus tend-
ing to weigh down earning capacity and
to force up advance rates and cause bor-
rowers to bear the burden. By giving
the central bank power to call upon the
London funds of the other banks when
need be the Government would sidestep
the honest method of buying • London
credits as they became available in order
to build up its own reserve there, while the
trading banks would carry the baby. The
“Wild Cat” has previously suggested that
one way for the Government to augment
its reserve of London funds would be to
use that portion of the profits of the Com-
monwealth Bank and Note Issue now
paid to the National Debt Sinking Fund
for the purpose. What the Government
needs to bear in mind is that the less the
trading banks are interfered with the
better service will they continue to
render the public.
The Adelaide’s £5-paid shares (there
is a contingent liability of £5 callable
only in the event of liquidation) fetched
£6 7s. in the market last week-end as
against £7 a year ago. At the lower
figure the return is 3.9 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible cover is
visibly £9 3s. 6d., or £2 16s. 6d. less than
the market considers the scrip is
worth —a glaring commentary on the
earning power of the bank’s funds. Until
details of the proposed legislation are
known, bank scrip will remain under a
cloud in the market. Owing to the ex-
pansion of industrial activity in South
Aus., where B.H. Prop., Imperial Chemi-
cal Industries and others are erecting
large new works, the immediate outlook
favors further expansion of earnings by
the Adelaide, notwithstanding the drop
in the price of wheat and wool.
During the last term, banking business,
both in the exchange and local markets,
was much brisker than the small increase
of £4451 in declared net earnings, which
are written after making an unspecified
provision for contingencies, suggests.
The £65,788 of profit claimed was 5.2
p.c. on the £1,250,000 of capital, or a
mere 2.8 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital .and reserves combined). In 1929
the net return on capital was 11.6 p.c.
The next comparison of balance-sheet
figures reflects a sound financial struc-
ture and increased trade activity:
1929. 1932. 1937. 1938.
Notes .. £6,713 £6.603 £6,574 £6,574
Bills, etc. 633,075 514,913 307,992 340,800
Deposits 6,177,592 6,031,331 7,**36,114 6,971.877
Liquid
assets 2,857,214 3,417,291 3,720,595 3.164,857
Advances 5,949,107 6,108,010 5,631,010 6,075,864
Premises,
etc. . . 347,434 343,117 352,382 405,125
The most encouraging movement there is
the year’s growth of £444,854 in ad-
vances. It was accompanied by a reduc-
tion of £555,738 in low-interest-bearing
liquids and of £94,237 in deposits. Bills
payable, etc., were up £32,808. When the
books closed advances amounted to 87.1
p.c. of deposits as against 79.7 p.c. at the
previous balance, and 96.3 p.c. in 1929.
Liquids were equal to 43.2 p.c. of liabili-
ties to the public, and the bank was hold-
ing only £3 3s. 9d. of outside money for
every pound of its own. In the absence
of undue interference, the bank is obvi-
ously well equipped to make further
advances, which is its chief service to the
public.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Not To Re— Re—
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 64,104 7.1 p.c. = 53,125 10,979 66,535
6- I*l 74 „ ~ 56.250 8.891 75,426
1929.. 62,995 71 „ „ 56,250 6,745 82,171
J 930. . 60,489 7-1 „ „ 56,250 4,239 86.410
.Inn.,
1932*. 56,695 53 „ „ 46,875 9,820 96,230
1933.. 52,188 6J „ „ 46,875 5,313 101,543
1934.. 38,058 5 „ „ 37,500 558 102,101
1935.. 37,158 5 „ 37,500 101,759
1936.. 42,754 5 „ ~ 37,500 5,254 107,013
1937.. '58.088 5.8 „ „ 43.750 14,338 121,351
1938 ' "~ 65,145 46,870 J 13,270 134.621
To staff fund, £5 OOO ) ’
*l3 months.
This solidly-established offshoot of the
B.P. organisation, with headquarters at
Suva, Fiji, does a large general mer-
chandising and shipping business, and
has branches scattered throughout the
South Seas. In addition the co. buys
and sells copra, cocoa, trochus shell,
timber, ivory nut, beche-de-mer, vanilla
and other island produce, and makes ad-
vances to planters and others connected
with island enterprises. From the start
(the co. took over the parent’s island pro-
duce and shipping business in 1920) the
policy has been to keep divs. moderate
and extend and strengthen the business.
Only once, in 1922, following the short,
sharp post-war price collapse, have share-
holders failed to receive a div., the aver-
age over the last 18 years being 6.1 p.c.
During the big world-wide slump,
when the London price of copra, on
which activity in island trading largely
depends, tumbled from £27 a ton (in
1928) to £7 ss. (in 1934), the div. never
dropped below 5 p.c., earned mostly by
the shipping and merchandising sections
of the business ; for a while copra trans-
actions showed a loss. Meanwhile,
costs had been largely readjusted to
altered conditions, and for the three
years following 1934 prices and trade
generally strengthened.
The last term opened with copra at
£l9 15s. a ton and closed with the figure
at £l2 10s. or thereabouts. The slip
was due largely to a falling off in demand
from the U.S.A. and Germany. Still, the
average price was profitable to pro-
ducers, two new motor vessels were added
to the co.’s fleet, and takings in the ship-
ping and merchandising sections of the
business continued to expand. So, despite
the loss (presumably covered by outside
underwriters) of an auxiliary schooner
on an uncharted reef in May last, gross
earnings sprang £23,276:
Gross Exes. p.c.
Dee., ■ Profit. Exes. of Gross.
1927 .. .. 161,785 97,681 60.4
1929 .. .. 192,137 129,142 67.2
1930 . . . . 185,060 124,571 67.0
Jan.,
1932 .. .. 169,182 112,487 66.4
1934 .. .. 147,700 109,642 74.2
1935 . . . . 137,507 100,349 72.9
1936 .. .. 153,393 110,639 72.1
1937 . . . . 180,189 122,101 67.8
1938 . . . , 203,465 138,320 68.1
Including the allowance for depreciation
(shown separately for the first time at
£33,693, or over 12 p.c. of the book value
of fixed assets at Jan. 31), exes, took
£16,219 of the increase, leaving the net
result (up £7057) at 8.7 p.c. on capital
compared with 7.7, 5.7, 4.9, 5, 6.9, 7.5,
8 and 8.1 p.c. back to 1929. Another
penny, making Is. 3d. per share (=
p.c.), was added to the div., the final
being at the rate of 6.5 p.c. p.a.
Still, influenced by the course of the
price for copra, now down to around £lO
17s. 6d., and the general weakness in the
sharemarket, investors have shortened
their bids for the pound shares from 365.
a year ago to a more rational 275. 9d.
last week-end. The return at the lower
figure is 4.4 p.c. on a 6.2 p.c. div. basis,
with prospects. Visibly the cover is
235. 6d. in net tangibles.
Here are balance-sheet figures, which
now tell a little more than they used to:
1929. 1930. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities . . 85,092 30,721 18,624 46,089
Properties, ] I
wharves, etc. j- 435,890 554,179 551,832 1 274,872
Investments J [ 266,356
Stocks, etc. .. 287,613 158,898 172',997 178,562
Book debts . . 189,962 175.498 185,785 179,788
Cash . . . . 60,048 36,662 53,110 61,132
Investments, consisting of shares in
other cos. and Government securities,
previously lumped with fixed assets,
appear at £266,356, after deducting an
unspecified amount of depreciation. On
the two items combined, £10,604 more
was written off than was spent during the
year. Including stocks (up £5565) and
investments, more or less liquids exceeded
outside liabilities by £639,749, equal to
17s. per share, when the books closed.
Kempthorne, Prosser (M.L.)
To Re- Re-
Jan.. Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 56,642 10 p.c.- •■‘>.63B 1 , nn4 168 541
Staff provident fund, £3OOO .. J 1,004
1929.. 72,810 10 p.c. - 02,9 7 4 ( 184 877
Staff provident fund, £3500 . . j 18 ’
Reserves capitalised, £53,000 . . 131,877
1930.. 71,910 10 p.c. = 58,295,) ln ...... moo?
Staff provident fund, £3500 . . S 10 > 115 141 ’ 992
1931.. 62,769 10 p.c. = 58,300 , fiQ 14 o 46 i
Staff provident fund, £3OOO . . ’ ’
1932. . 49,052 74 p.c. 43,725 , 9 997 1 4 c 988
Staff provident fund, £25.00 .. ’ ’
1933.. 47,125 74 p.c. = 43,725 \ u7lR o
S-taff provident fund, £2500 ..} ' uu 1
1934.. 48,788 74 p.c. = 43,725 \ „„ i 49 751
Staff provident fund, £2500 ..} 11 '
Inner reserve disclosed, £26.000 . . 175,751
1935.. 54,494 8 p.c. = 46,640 } - iqi in-
stall' provident fund, £2500 ..J 5 > 854 181 *. 10j
1936.. 54,454 8 p.c. = 46,640 1 r „. isjcaio
Staff provident fund, £2500 ..) i Jb0 ’ 44 '
Obsolescence reserve, £18,223 .. 204,642
1937.. 50,130 8 p.c. = 46,640 1 ~O A
Staff provident fund, £2500 .. j 990 20j ’ 63 ‘ J
1938.. 77,735 8 p.c. = 46,640 31,095 236,727
Special 12$ p.c. cash bonus, £72,875 . . 163,852
The special cash bonus of ss. per share
(124- p.c.) sent out with the 8 p.c. div.,
making 204- p.c. for the year, surprised
the market, which lengthened its bid for
the f.-p. £2 shares from 68s. 6d. to 735. 6d.
following publication of the accounts. A
year ago the figure was 765. 9d., but the
market has since revised its estimate of
future trading possibilities owing to the
fall in export prices, especially for wool,
the continued rise in costs and develop-
ments overseas. Allowing for the final
div. and cash bonus (together 6s. 9d.
per share), the net cost of the scrip at
735. 6d. is 665. 9d., at which figure the
return is a satisfactory 5 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis.
Dunedin-controlled, the co. grew up in
the drug trade, in which connection it
owns four warehouses, filled partly by
imports and partly by the products of its
own pharmaceutical factory. Also, it
now owns four large chemical fertiliser
works in the most important agricultural
and pastoral centres in the Dominion,
and the manufacture of super, has be-
come the largest part of the business.
Although turnover increased in all sec-
tions last year, it was the growth in
fertiliser sales, thanks to the lift in the
price of primary products, that put most
of the spring of £58,373 in gross earn-
ings, which were written after striking
£22,800 (down £7200) off the book value
of fixed assets for depreciation:
Gross Profit. Expenses. of Gross.
1920 ..£139,909 £100,098 71.5 p.e.
1925 . . 147,344 99,985 67.8 „
1930 .. 202,679 130,770 64.5 „
1933 .. 131,957 84,832 64.3 „
1934 . . 127,761 78,973 61.8 „
1935 . . 137,226 82,732 60.2 „
1936 . . 149,551 95,097 63.5 ~
1937 . . 156,700 106,570 67.8 ~
1938 . . 215,073 137,339 63.9 ~
The bigger turnover is again reflected in
a reduction of 3.9 p.c. in the ratio of
exes, (they include something for bad
debts and the staff fund) to gross earn-
ings. The apparent improvement in the
net result was £27,605 ; but £16,000 of
the previous term’s earnings had been
slipped into a “works obsolescence
reserve.” The £77,735 of profit claimed
was the best yet, being 13.3 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 8.6, 9.3, 9.3, 8.3, 8 and 8.4
p.c. back to 1932.
As for the current term, the immediate
outlook suggests a slight recession in
earnings at next balance. Costs are still
on the up-grade, and there has been a
sharp drop in the price of wool. Still.
{“Wild Cat ” continued on page 24.)


An Investment
Worth
♦
Considering
OSS'
‘THE GOVERNOR CAME HOTEL
Being erected in Hunter Street
SYDNEY
To be the most modern non-licensed
house in the Southern Hemisphere
Architect:
E. Hilton Long, A.R.V.I.A.
, Builder:
Alex. B. Gairn.
For Prospectus and Particulars Write
MODERN (Non-licensed) HOTELS LTD.
8 Spring Street, Sydney
The Secretary,
Modern (Non-licensed) Hotels Ltd.,
8 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Please send me Prospectus and particulars of Investment in The Governor Game Hotel.
Name
Address


AMICUS CERTUS IN REINCERTA ]
A word about
RHEUMATISM
THROUGH the A.M.P. about a million families now enjoy the
comfort of some measure of financial security. These families have
used the A.M.P. to guard themselves against the sufferings that
come with poverty and want. They have "used their heads ’ and are
reaping a fine reward in peace of mind. When the need comes they
will reap a reward in pounds, shillings and pence.
A similar use of available medical knowledge would make it
possible for wise men and women to guard against the suffering that
comes with many of our common diseases.
Take Rheumatism: There are many kinds of Rheumatism; indeed,
doctors do not now use the word, preferring to use terms (like
Arthritis, Fibrositis and what not) that define the various conditions
commonly called rheumatism.
The sufferer from "rheumatism” should consult a doctor as to
the type of it, and then follow his advice as to treatment. Gentle
exercise of the affected part will help in some types, but will harm
in. others, so competent advice is essential. Drugs should be avoided.
They may ease pain a little, but they will not cure. Consult a doctor.
What he can do to bring relief will depend on how much damage has
already been done.
Bad deformities very rarely result from “rheumatism” if the
treatment be good. When the proper treatment is begun early, the
likelihood of complete recovery is strong; the likelihood of improve-
ment and relief almost certain.
Men and women who watch their health sanely, and build up
their A.M.P. policies sanely, can enjoy a full life.
A word to the nearest A.M.P. office will bring an experienced
adviser to he*p you decide what A.M.P. policies you should have. If
you would prefer to write, ask for a copy of "Investing in Happiness.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, Chairman of the Principal Board.
C. M. MARTIN, A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Chief Inspector and Secretary. General Manager.
D. E. Walker, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Berth and Hobart.
District offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
'Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. fivielb.). — Advt.
* * * *
HARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals.—Advt.
* * * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and repaintings.
For all wooden, steel or iron structures. W ill not
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams and
Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
the markets for mutton and dairy pro-
duce remain satisfactory, and the use of
super, continues to play an important
part in raising fat lambs in the Dominion.
Considering the margin between last
year’s net earnings and the 8 p.c. div., the
latter is’ not likely to be interfered with.
The following comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows that the board will
have no difficulty in finding the money
for the special ss. cash bonus:
1930. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Capital . . £583,000 £583,000 £583,000 £583,000
Liabilities* .. 252,463 84,438 187,786 228,114
Factories, etc. 466,943 366,221 378,032 39(y942
Stock.. 373,891 274.4 77 321,878 324,659
Book debts .. 172,094 133,802 187,729 221,895
Cash, etc. .. 105,002 117,514 130,579
* Includes provision for taxation.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£449,019) was £9684.
That was after spending £41,710 on fac-
tories, etc., the allowance for deprecia-
tion reducing the net growth in the book
value of the item to £18,910. The co.’s
consistent earning power appears to be
as much due to the board’s policy of
building up the inner strength by paying
for additions to assets out of earnings
and then writing down the said addition
from the same source as to its extensive
goodwill.
lllawarra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928 .. 8,626 8 p.c. = 8,000 626 2,698
Reserves taken in, £12,500 .. .. 15,198
1929 .. 23.561 8 p.c. = 8,000 15,561 30,759
1930 .. 18,875 9 „ „ 9,000 9,875 40,634
1931 .. 10,099 10 „ „ 10,000 99 40,733
1932 .. 8,058 8 „ „ 8,000 58 40.791
1933 .. 8,050 8 „ „ 8,000 50 40.841
1934 . . 8,253 8 „ „ 8,000 253 41,094
Unexplained additions reserves, £3500.. 44.594
1935 .. 8,480 8 p.c. = 8,000 480 45.074
Unexplained additions reserves, £3401.. 48,474
1936 .. 8,346 8 p.c. = 8,000 346 48,820
Tax and bad debts reserves written
back, £2500 51.320
1937 .. 11,871 8 p.c. = 8.000 3,871 55,191
Insurance adjustment, £2llB .. .. 57,309
1938 .. 14,581 9 p.c. = 9,000 5,581 62,890
The co. is in a very snug position, finan-
cially and otherwise. Chief earning asset,
the fleet, which is reported in good
order and covered by insurance, is worth
a lot more than its book value, now
approximately half what it was 10 years
ago, despite additions and improvements
meanwhile. Also, apart from competi-
tion from road transport, the co. enjoys
a monopoly of the carrying business on
the N. S. Wales South Coast between
Nowra, where the railway ends, and the
Vic. border and Sydney. Trade earnings
were apparently little affected by slump,
and for the last decade shareholders have
had a steady 8 p.c., with a bit extra in
good seasons, making the average 8.4 p.c.
During the last term, Nature was kind,
enabling dairy-farmers and others to fill
the co.’s hulls with produce, while the
backloading of stores and returns from a
fine wad of outside investments (mainly
Consols) helped to swell earnings. After
allowing £3830 for depreciation, the net
result was £2710 better at 14.6 p.c. on
capital as against 11.8, 8.3, 8.4, 8.2, 8,
8 and 10 p.c. back to 1931. That leaves
out of the reckoning a non-recurring gain
of £2llB in respect of insurance pre-
miums, arising out of a change in due
dates. A point was added to the div.,
making it 9 p.c., the final being at the
rate of 10 p.c. p.a.
Now consider these figures:
1928. 1931. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid £ £ £ £ £
capital . 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
Liabilities* 11,282 9,815 10,518 9,279 8,034
Ship pi'o-
pevty .. 60,844 54,600 43,630 34,880 31,130
Other pro-
perty . . 2,807 2,895 2,570 2,725 2,475
Plant, stores,
etc. .. 2,645 2.078 1.409 1,434 1,423
Book debts 15,936 6,652 11,324 16,391 15,336
Consols and
cash .. 48,208 89,323 100,598 113,041 125,559
* Including provision for taxation.
When the books closed the £lOO,OOO of
capital (it includes £25,000 of bonus scrip,
scattered during reconstructon in 1920)
and £25,559 besides were represented by
Consols (£100,229, up £3010) and cash
(£25,330, up £9508), together equal to
255. Id. per share. Outside liabilities,
which include an unspecified' provision
for taxation, were nearly twice covered
by debtors’ balances alone. The fleet
consists of five small vessels, oldest age
26 years, youngest nine years, aggregat-
ing 2529 tons. It is plain, therefore, that
the co. is in a position to return a .sub-
stantial part of its share capital, or pay
a handsome cash bonus, without danger
of leaving itself short of working capital.
Thus far the board has given no hint as
to what it intends to do with the co. s
accumulation of funds.
At 40s. (435. a year ago) the fully-paid
pound shares return 4.5 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
div. basis. Visibly the cover is 325. 7d.
in net tangibles.
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd.
Net. Nom. j Net. Nom.
Dec., Profit. Reserves. Dec., Profit. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 675 56,219 1934.. 12,322 110,380
1931.. 15,975 72,194 1935.. 10,415 120,790
1932.. 12,585 84,779 1936.. 702 121,497
1933.. 13,279 98,058 1937.. 353 121,850
At 10,052,000 (up 853,000) tons N.S.W.
coal production for 1937 was 51 p.c.
higher than the 1931 output. Coal com-
pany profits, however, continue to hang
back in the collar. Chief requirement
for the rehabilitation of the industry is
a higher selling price; but there are still
too many producers in the industry for
the volume of business available. A.
Howard-Smith (Caledonian’s chairman)
puts the matter this way:
It costs thousands of pounds to hold a
mine idle, and we prefer to keep our pits
working and sell our coal at a low price.
We have found it impossible to reach
unanimity with other companies.
In 1926-27 the State railways were pay-
ing 225. a ton for large Maitland coal ;
the figure slipped to 15s. in 1931-32 and
to 10s. from ’33-36. Over the same period
export prices, on a much reduced turn-
over, fell 6s. to 18s. a ton.
Of Caledonian’s seven pits, four (the
Aberdares, on the easily-worked Greta
seam) are noted for some of the best gas-
coal in the State. Last term gross profits
sprang £15,328, reaching £45,353. Both
local and export business, particularly
with Asia, improved, and a slightly better
selling price more than offset wage lifts.
The nominal £353 of profit shown is due
to the heavier depreciation allowance
£45,000, as against £29,323 in the previ-
ous term. For the ninth successive year
no divs. were paid.
The year’s depreciation provision, to-
gether with a net reduction of £17,487
in book debts, enabled the overdraft
(£53,219 at the previous balance) to be
wiped out. Other indebtedness now
totals £116,546. The mine, etc., figures
at £1,569,751 (down £29,437) ; sharehold-
ings,. £57,631; stores, £57,443; coal
stocks, £11,536; debtors and cash,
£29,929. Thus on paper all the share
capital and a bit more is intact, but that
doesn’t necessarily- mean much in a coal
or other mining venture.
The public has a direct and indirect
interest —Howard Smith holds 70 p.c. of
the pref. capital (£464,295) and 85 p.c. of
the ord. (£1,023,599) —in the co. The
6 p.c. prefs., reduced to 5 p.c. under the
Interest Reduction Act, carrying 9s. 7d.
(= £221,752) in div. arrears, fetch
9s. 3d. in the market; the £1 ords. stand
at 2s. lOd. With the overdraft paid off
a small pref. distribution may soon be
possible, granted freedom from industrial
trouble. The minimum 5 p.c. handout
would require £23,215. Improvements
in modern steam machinery promise to
take some of the sting out of competition
from electric and oil power.
After delay in delivery of a new
bucket-band and reconstruction of the
dredge, New Kopah Tin, N.L., reached
production at the end of July last. The
co. is a reconstruction of the old Kopah
Tin co., which shut its plant down in 1931
after two years’ operations. The prop-
erty is at Takuapa, West Siam ; 38,000,000
c.y., which the old co. estimated to aver-
age around 9oz. per yard, was esti-
mated to be available 12 months ago.
For the three months to the close of
accounts in Oct., 312,000 c.y. was dug
at an all-in cost of 3.32 d. per c.y. Yield
was 61.7 tons t. 0., or 7.10 z. per c.y. Net
profit for the period was £4220, which
has been applied as to £2203 in writing
preliminary exes. and development
account off the books and £2016 for
dredge renewals. For the five months
to the end of March recoveries (4.20 z.)
have been almost halved on turnover of
549,000 c.y. Dredge capacity is put at
180,000 c.y. monthly, though so far this
figure has not been attained. At £69,573
—12,000 1\ p.c. cum. par. prefs. and
57,573 £1 ords. —capital is not big, but the
co. has only a small assessment, its quota
for the first half of 1938 being 96 tons
t.o. Neither class of scrip is listed. In
front of distributions to the ords. stand
the accumulating pref. charge (£lBOO at
Oct. 31) and an outside debt of £12,596.
Liquids at balance date amounted to
£2889.
* * * *
After cutting a 25-mile water race,
Siamese Tin Syndicate, an English con-
cern with substantial interests in Southern
Asian tin-dredging, is finding low metal
prices, shallow ground and high costs too
much for it on its St. Helens (nor’-east
Tas.) property, and is thinking of getting
out. The co. is hydraulicking with five
nozzles. Some 13,500,000 c.y. of 17.90 z.
wash was estimated to be available.
Operating on the little-worked Deborah
anticline, adjacent to the one-time rich
Garden Gully line in the centre of the
Bendigo (Vic.) field, Deborah G.M. has
been showing consistent weekly yields of
6|dwt. The ore is coming from the big
formations at the 915 ft. and 1000 ft. hori-
zons ; a large fault reef at 525 ft. is also
receiving attention. For the half-year
to Jan. 31 the 6816 tons milled returned
£19,150 (565. 2d. a ton). Net profit was
£7503, of which £3050 went out in two
6d. divs. Mining and treatment costs are
around 325. a ton, which brings 4dwt.
stuff into the payable zone. There is
close on £lO,OOO in the cashbox. Her-
bert Gepp is at the head of things.
* * * *
Wiluna (W.A.) is spending at the rate
of about £150,000 a year in search of
new enrichments at depth. So far
nothing very encouraging has been
struck, but the management is full of
hope. Better luck is being experienced
in the Bulletin lease, a mile or so north
of the main workings. There, at 1200 ft.,
a lode 10ft. to 12ft. wide, assaying lOdwt.
to 13dwt., is being opened up. This
part of Wiluna may prove a fair-sized
mine in itself.
* * * *
Perth-bossed New Golconda, N.L., has
suspended operations following Dr.
Moss’s report that to carry on would
mean disastrous loss. High costs, as a
result of the scattered nature of opera-
tions and inability to centralise work,
and failure of returns to come up to
assay values were the chief troubles. A
sub-lease of the co.’s holdings has been
given its recent manager. Cash in hand
at Jan. 31 was £Bl7.
* * * *
March production of De Bernales’s
Westralian group, about which there is
much less publicity to-day than yester-
day, was worth £107,579. Gt. Boulder
contributed £62,499, Yellowdine £23,440,
Comet £8460, Emu £8617 and Riverina
£4563. Jan.-March quarter’s output
totalled £301,920. Recent deep-level
developments in Gt. Boulder’s main
workings are reckoned impressive by
admirers. Comet prospects continue to
be lauded by the management, but little
has been broadcast lately about Yellow-
dine, Emu or Riverina.
* * * *
London-controlled Youanmi (W.A.),'
which doesn’t publish returns locally,
obtained gold worth £9288 Aust. from
4685 tons in Feb. As there are 3,492,020
ords. and 500,000 7 p.c. prefs., represent-
ing a half-million of capital, the co. will
have to do a lot better if shareholders
are to get any gilt on their gingerbread.
Australian investors obtain a little infor-
mation now and then about prospects
from reports issued by the London board.
* * * *
Big Bell (W.A.) steadily climbs the
golden stairs. March production was
74960 z. of fine gold, compared with
47240 z. in Feb. Yield for first quarter
of the year was 18,4170 z. gold and
88720 z. silver.
* * * *
Crown Mines, with Consolidated Gold
Areas, star Rand performer, does things
in a big way. During 1937 4,258,000 tons
were put through the 28 tube mills, and
at least a further 20,600,000 tons of sdwt
stuff awaits extraction. Latest net profit,
after allowing for taxes, is £1,914,100, of
which repetition of the 190 p.c. div. takes
£1,791,800. The 10s. shares are above
£l5 in London. Shortage of colored
labor—two whites are at present em-
ployed to each 17 natives—is presenting
a problem to low-grade producers.
Crown’s costs are around 18s. 6d. stg. a
ton.
.


d
fd
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
ADAMS’ (TA'iTERS ALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8'- per day: Breakfast. Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.-15 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday.
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M4OOl
5.45 p.m.).
Ihe Federal Mutual insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
SMOKE-OH!
“Shortly after he joined the R.A.N. he
swung the clubs on an occasion for 18 hours.”
—“D.T”
That’s nothing. Diggers can tell of
men who joined the army and swung
the lead for four years.
'l* »!<
“In spite of very palpable interference, which
appeared to ruin its chances, Buzzalong, mak-
ing a late run, came home etaoin ! ! !
!! ' "Sun.”
Well, the best of us come home like
that sometimes.
•I* 4*
“A small select club of some amateur dieti-
tians has been formed in Sydney. The rules
permit no fried food on its menus.”
Even the shirts of the members are
boiled.
“Bankrupt also said that he had raised a
considerable amourit of money on his sheep.”
—Sydney paper.
His I O Ewes.
•J*
“When I first met my husband he was a
land agent.”— Divorce evidence.
Love at first site.
'l* •i- *l*
“The big shipping companies report record
passenger bookings for overseas.”
—Sydney paper.
Anyway, our berth rate is not declin-
ing.
H*
“Woollahra Council has decided that the
police may retain the station premises at Rose
Bay for three years, provided they mow the
lawn regularly.”— “Sun.”
It should be an easy matter to arrest
the growth of the grass.
•b HE* *J*
“The indiscriminate destruction of trees is
nothing short of criminal, for the scientific fact
remains that dense masses of trees attract rain-
fall.’ ’ — Correspondent’s letter.
Nevertheless a much surer way to woo
Jupiter P. is to spend a half-day polishing
the car.
❖ *!• *!• *j*
The Hybrid.
“Every human being has a resemblance to
some particular animal, and possesses in a
marked degree the characteristic for which that
animal is best known. This can be tested
among our own friends.” — “Sunday Sun.”
I should like to know exactly what /
look like.
My wife says I eat like a pig and come
home like a bear with a sore head. I’m
an ungrateful dog (some of my friends
say I’m a gay one), and I have at various
times been a “bird,” a worm, a goat, a
hippopotamus (clumsy as) and a skunk.
Her manner of saying that she won’t
stand any of my monkey tricks hints that
she sees another resemblance. Also, I
drink like a fish.
I have x also been described by a man
for whom I refused to back a p.n. as
a dingo.
H.M.
Good unionists would like to see a
little more A. L. Peace.
If you suffer from ringing and buzzing
noises in the ears you’re no different
from any other telephone user.
4* 4*
Some Little-known Facts About
Australia’s Early History.
XlV.—Some Corps Commanders.
It was Major Grose who chose the
N.S.W. Corps motto, Hie! nulla hie!
boloni (“Get in for your cut”), and cease-
lessly adjured every officer to live up to
it in the spirit—or spirits—as well as the
letter. Moreover, he saw to it that they
did.
When, for instance, an officer would
ask for a grant of 1000 acres in the rich
Cowpastures country and a dozen convicts
to work them, he would invariably be
roared up by the Lieut.-Governor for dis-
playing a modesty that the Major con-
sidered was a grave reflection on the
Corps’ bad name, and be immediately
given double or, as a special punishment,
treble the acreage and convictage asked
for.
It is to Grose’s eternal credit, however,
that, instead of taking the easy way and
following Phillip’s plan of straight, wide
streets, he courageously stuck out for
narrow, crooked thoroughfares. With un-
canny foresight he visualised the future
era of fast mechanised transport, and
realised that width and straightness would
lead in time to streets becoming veritable
speedways and therefore death-traps.
The narrow, tortuous streets he favored
would, especially if kept in a bad state of
repair, be the means of preventing speed
and accidents, and unborn generations of
pedestrians would therefore live to revere
his name. Besides, he argued, was any-
thing more natural than the track taken
by a bullock? And who was he to try
to improve on Nature?
His health had been undermined by
the nervous strain of waiting sometimes
for months for a shipment of rum before
he could calculate what his profit would
be from it. Once, indeed, when a con-
signment yielded only 600 p.c. net he
threatened forthwith to resign.
But the last straw came when-a letter
arrived from Lord Dundas asking him
to furnish a return in triplicate (form
SXB) of the number of parades held by
the Corps since its arrival. The prepos-
terous supposition that the commercial
activities of the Corps should be inter-
rupted by anything so unprofitable as a
military parade would have brought on
a brainstorm had the Major possessed
the necessary organ for a storm to fasten
on to. As it was, he just sagged at the
knees, and they carted him back to Eng-
land.
Thereafter the Corps came under the
command of Captain William Paterson
(“Spit-and-Polish Bill”). A martinet of
the old school, he immediately introduced
a pressing reform —the fixing of the mini-
mum profit on the sale of rum at 1500
p.c. on cost.
Pending the appointment of a new
Governor, the Captain administered the
colony. But one thing rankled.
He was acting-Governor of a colony
now much larger and of more importance
than when Phillip had guided its
destinies, and Phillip had been
designated a Captain-General.
“Patto” therefore considered
that he should logically be called
“Captain-Field Marshal.” Con-
sequently he wrote to the Home
authorities demanding that the
traditional baton be forwarded
to him.
His request was referred to
the Quartermaster-General’s de-
partment. A clerk dictated a
reply to the effect that the regu-
lation issue of weapons was
deemed sufficient, but that if
Captain Paterson insisted on
assuming the additional duty of
policeman to the colony it would
be in the best interests of a
necessary economy if he had a
baton fashioned from one of the
native timbers, an adequate
supply of which was available.
This insult was a mortal blow
to the Captain’s not inconsider-
able vanity, and he left Port
Jackson, ostensibly to found a
settlement at Launceston, but in
reality to throw himself with
passionate fervor into the ab-
sorbing study of the digestive
powers of the Tasmanian wolf
and the domestic life of the lerp-insects.
It is supposed by many that throughout
the 20 years it was stationed in N.S.W.
the Corps performed not one act to
justify its maintenance. This is erroneous,
for on a sweltering day in March, 1804,
it covered itself with glory.
Word had come through that convicts
working on the roads at Castle Hill had
mutinied. With magnificent promptitude
the 0.C., Major Johnston, ordered a
double issue of pipeclay and brass polish.
All that day the troops toiled manfully
burnishing up their equipment. When at
one o’clock next morning the barman at
the wet canteen collapsed the O.C.
deemed that his troops were sufficiently
primed to give them courage to face the
fearful hazards, for it must be remem-
bered that they were only lightly armed
with muskets and bayonets, whereas the
convicts might be waiting in ambush with
bamboo sticks. Moreover, they mightn’t
even taste rum for at least four hours!
That the dispirited, hungry convicts
were rounded up and captured will ever
redound to the Corps’ credit.
SAV. K.
The Change.
She used to love to tell me all
She thought about and felt;
She waited, pent up, for my call,
Then into speech she’d melt.
She’d tell me, too, how much she loved
Dear me —I felt a toff;
But now, though still to speech she’s
moved,
She merely tells me off.
H. M.
Tell Me To-night.
A glorious moon beamed from a cloud-
less sky, tipping the gentle ripples of the
sea with an ever-changing silvery sheen.
Myriad lights from a thousand bayside
homes were reflected at the water’s edge.
Out on the sea a solitary light shone
meekly from a lone fishing boat.
“That’s my father’s boat,” the girl said.
“What a wonderful night, but father will
not notice it —he’ll be so intent on getting
his haul of fish.”
“It is an intoxicating night,” replied the
man.
A soft zephyr wafted her golden hair
ever so gently as she turned her head.
There was a warm pressure of hands ;
then a sudden clasping of his strong arms
around her slender waist. He crushed her
towards him and they found themselves
looking into each other’s eyes.
“Darling,” he whispered passionately,
“I want to ask you a question.”
She did not attempt to escape from his
embrace ; rather did she snuggle closer.
“Come on —the boys are doin' a stay-in strike for an extra zack an hour!"
“Yes, Claude?” she breathed eagerly.
“Judith,” he said, “how much a dozen
does your old man charge for flathead?”
TREVDEE.
Tragic Triolet.
/ am embittered by an ant,
So ask no nature-loving verse
Of bees and pigs and all that cant ;
/ am embittered by an ant.
I do not wish to rage or rant,
I’d write like Wordsworth, but — oh,
curse !
I have been bitten by an ant,
So ask no nature-loving verse.
S.
Poor Advice.
“Friendly relations between doctor and
patient should be. encouraged. It helps to put
the patient at his ease during treatment.”
—Medical journal.
All eyewash, that. I tried it on my doc.
hut got a snub.
He seemed with such effusiveness to
greet me
/ clapped him on the back and steered
him straight into a pub,
But, dammit all! he wouldn’t even
treat me !
BO.


mi
sr
sae
MAPPING OUT
A TRAVEL ITINERARY
When mapping out an itinerary for a trip overseas,
it is equally important to make certain that you
can obtain money at ports of call and on ship-
board. The safest and most convenient method of
so doing is to obtain Travellers’ Cheques and. a
Letter of Credit. For small amounts, Travellers’
Cheques are recommended. These are issued in
denominations of £2, £5, and £lO. For larger
amounts, a Letter of Credit should be obtained.
Full information and advice will be gladly given
at the Bank’s Branches and its Overseas Agencies.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited (Incorporated in Victoria )
53/12/38
National Bank at £6 18s.
The return from National Bank
£5 shares at £6 18s. on Tuesday was
£4 7s. per cent, on a 6 p.c. div.
basis. It represents one of the most
attractive yields offering in the
bank section.
EXPERT ADVICE given on Business
or Personal matters. Satisfaction guaran-
teed or money refunded. Fee from 10s.
No Advice, No Charge.
EVERARD HEDEMANN,
Expert General Adviser,
70 l’itt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6115.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
A. Cleaning-up.
Australian sharebrokers in many cases
at present are asking clients to liquidate
or reduce covered or uncovered debits
in ledger accounts. Squeezes of this
kind invariably come at the worst
time. When a market is buoyant credit
is free, and speculation therefore pro-
duces more buoyancy ; when a setback
occurs, such as the present one with its
beginnings in New York, a tightening-
up of credit facilities produces forced
selling of shares by speculators and still
lower prices. In other words, the more
forced sales there are the more there are
likely to be until the weakly-financed
are “cleaned-up.” It sounds like jungle
law, but if the get-rich-quick instinct
didn’t make “punters” of sharemarket
followers to start with there wouldn’t be
any unpleasant “cleaning-up” of punters
afterwards.
In the present case it would be hard
to call the genuine investor who bought
at high prices a “mug.” Prospects within
this country look as promising as any-
where in the world, and the effect New
York has been having on our share-
markets seems to amount to undue influ-
ence. The people who will be kicking
themselves hardest now are those who
bought more scrip than they could afford,
and it should be recorded that in more
than a few cases brokers encouraged
clients to buy more than they, could
afford. That was when lead and zinc
were over £30 a ton in London and wool
was 18d. in Melbourne.
Australian sharemarkets are under-
going an adjustment not in sympathy with
general business conditions. Stock Ex-
changes and their followers have brought
much of their troubles on themselves,
though the U.S.A.’s influence is beyond
calculation. At no time in our history
has market gambling been so prevalent
as during the past five years. The hunt
for unearned increment is certainly a
most tricky pastime.
N. S. Wales Full Court in Lovell’s
case has decided that an exchange of
shares does not come within the share-
hawking provisions of the Companies
Act. Jordan, C.J., said it was notorious
at the time when the Act was passed that
one of the most usual methods by which
share-hawkers perpetrated their frauds
was that of beguiling the unwary into
exchanging valuable shares for worthless
rubbish. “In these circumstances,” he
added, “it is deplorable that exchanges
should be left outside the purview of the
Act. This Court, however, must take
the Act as it finds it, and cannot do
violence to its language in order to bring
within its scope cases which, though
within its mischief, are not within its
words.” The Minister for Justice prom-
ises an amendment of the Act. Section
343 had been emasculated in the Upper
House in the original bill.
* * , * * '
Carrier (Australasia), Ltd., has pre-
sented accounts printed in electric blue.
Those who took up the new issue at 31s.,
and others who paid higher figures on the
market, think a deeper, darker hue would
have been more appropriate. A trading
loss of £24,605 is shown for the year to
Dec. 31 last. Profits claimed for 1936 were
£11,078, 1935 £18,391, 1934 £2573. In
mid-1937 the co.’s prospectus mentioned
possibilities of earnings “not less than 15
p.c.” on the increased capital account.
The Federal Government’s late-lamented
trade-diversion “policy” created difficul-
ties in importing essential parts of the
co.’s air-conditioning plants, contracts
were lost, and other troubles affected
earnings before 1937 closed. “More
specific details” will be given at the meet-
ing to-morrow (29th). The shares are
now around 17s. The loss was heavier
than expected when the passing of the
div. was announced earlier this year.
# ❖
The Secretary to the U.S. Treasury has
announced that his country is going to
cease “sterilising” gold. “In future, gold
acquired will be poured into the credit
arteries, as needed.” To the simple,
straightforward person, there would seem
to be two alternatives to “sterilising”
gold—“sterilising” represents taking it in
exchange for goods, securities or credits
and then burying it somewhere so that
it will have no influence on the national
currency. The alternatives are to issue
the metal in the form of gold coin or to
issue notes (or obtain credits) against it.
It isn’t likely that the U.S. will put gold
coin into circulation. Presumably it
means to issue notes against it “as
needed,” which method, so long as the
notes are inconvertible, might easily
develop into a form of currency inflation.
Britain is buying its gold on the strength
of credits or borrowed money, not by
issuing notes, and up to the present that
has been the practice in the U.S.A.
People who sell gold to the U.S.A.
obtain a credit at the U.S. Treasury.
Countries outside America, who repre-
sent the principal sellers of gold, may
use this credit to buy goods or shares,
etc., in the States. That is the ultimate
effect of the transaction. Obviously there
is a vast difference in the Treasury’s two
optional methods of financing these gold
purchases —by borrowing or by issuing
notes. The difference is almost as much
as in a case where a Government is toss-
ing up as to whether it will finance
“works” by public borrowing or by issu-
ing notes. The “almost” is necessary
only because gold is more realisable than
“works.” Expansion of the note issue
would occur just the same, and might
be termed gold inflation.
The profit on the United States Gov-
ernment’s action a few years ago
in commandeering the country’s gold
reserves and then lifting the price
of the metal is to be used for further
“pump-priming,” which is a term
for Government spending. This most
decidedly represents a form of inflation.
The currency was devalued externally
when gold was raised to 35 dollars an
ounce. Though depreciation internally
also took place at a slower rate, the
utilisation of the “gold profit” for public
spending will represent a further attack
on internal buying-power of the dollar.
Australia’s devalution of the pound
raised export prices (paid to us), but in-
ternally the same pound bought more
than when it was a golden sovereign in
1928. It still does, for which we should
be thankful.
He * *
A jury awarded the plaintiff £735 in
a N.S.W. Supreme Court action wherein
William Ross sued Montague Shaw for
£l5OO in connection with non-fulfilment
of a promise to resell 1030. shares in
Churchills, Ltd., at a premium of 10s.
The promise was denied, and it was also
pleaded , that the plaintiff never engaged
or employed the defendant to effect such
a resale.
* * * *
In the N. S. Wales Supreme Court last
week a jury awarded Cecil Osbert Cham-
bers £1250 damages in his claim for
£50,000 against Pennsylvania Oils (Aus-
tralasia), Ltd., for wrongful dismissal
from his position of sales manager. A
stay of proceedings was granted. Cham-
bers claimed that he had obtained the
right to distribute Kendall (U.S.A.) oils
in Australia, and, following negotiations
with Henry Elmer Messenger, manager
of Benson Sterling and Co., a co., Penn-
sylvania Oils (A/asia), Ltd., was formed,
which took over the agency. Windeyer,
K.C., opening the plaintiff’s case, said:
It will be alleged that Messenger wanted
Chambers to go out as a salesman to sell
shares. Benson Sterling and Co., in the
course of promotion,, took up ordinary
shares in the new company, and was selling
them at 30s. each, a premium of 10s. a
share. Chambers was asked to sell these
ordinary shares.
From the first Chambers was told that
he must not handle the correspondence
from the retailers with whom he came in
contact. He was later told that he had to
be in his office by 8.30 a.m., and leave by
10.30 a.m. Chambers found these instruc-
tions impracticable, and he was dismissed
for disobedience.
Curtis, K.C., for the defence, said that
Chambers was lawfully dismissed for an
infringement of the service agreement, in
that he refused to carry out a lawful
order.
** * * *
Broken Hill Prop.’s div., payable next
month, is at the unchanged rate of 12-g-
-p.c. p.a.
* *■ * *
General Motors-Holden’s profit, dis-
closed at £1,005,773 last week, was only
£176,000 lower than the record showing
of Broken Hill Prop, in its last term. On
ord. capital as it stood before the recent
bonus issue the result was 101 p.c., com-
pared with 73.9 p.c. in the preceding
term. On the increased ord. capital the
profit was equal ,to 56 p.c. No cash div.
is being paid this term, the £784,200 of
profits capitalised early in 1938 having
represented part -of the earnings now
disclosed. In the two preceding years 40
p.c. and 25 p.c. were paid. The co. had
a hard time during the slump.
# * * *
Briseis Consolidated, near Derby, Tas.,
has shown a profit of £9256 before pro-
viding for taxation, depreciation or de-
pletion Of property. The year ended on
Dec. 31, but only in the last half was
the mine producing, 211:5 tons tin ore
being won from 331,000 c.y.—average
1.431 b. Working costs at 18d. were close
to prospectus‘ estimates, but values
haven’t yet been fully attained, and the
price of the metal is down heavily. The
ss. shares are sluggish at ss. 6d. They
sold as high as Bs. 6d. last year. When
flood debris is cleaned out and the price
of the metal improves div. chances will
brighten. But there is £36,500 of liabili-
ties to be looked after first. Paid capital
is £150.000.
% s*e :Jc sfc
Zinc Corp. (B. 13/4/’3B and 21/4/’3B)
opened ss. a share higher after the holi-
days, changing hands at 90s. A fort-
night earlier the scrip could have been
got at 80s. Almost any time it recedes
sharply this stock is worth buying.
London quotes for some essential com-
modities :
Present A Month A Year
Price. Ago. Ago.
Rubber (per lb.) .. 5.4 d. 7.1 d. Is. Id.
Tin (per ton) .. £l6B £lB5 £296
Copper (per ton) .. £39.6 £4O £72.5
Wheat (May, 1001 b.) 6s. lid. 7s. 4d. 10s. Id.
There has been a big slide in them all,
especially rubber and metals. Wheat held
well until early this year. In the cases
of rubber and tin a further restriction
in production took place as from April
1, rubber being fixed for the second
quarter of 1938 at 60 p.c., tin at 55 p.c.
The crux of the position as regards these
two items seems to lie in the course of
markets in the U.S.A., the largest buyer
of both rubber and tin. Consumption in
the States has fallen away drastically.
Early in 1937 the tin quota was up to
110 p.c.
* * * *
Shares in Mcllrath’s Holdings have
been a disappointment. Running a chain
of grocery stores in N. S. Wales, the co.’s
scrip was listed last year, the public com-
ing in at 355., plus 6d. broker’s commis-
sion. Last week the scrip sold at 31s. 6d.
There are people who objected to the
nature of the float; the co. didn’t get the
full 355. paid for the shares. The infor-
mation offered at the time regarding the
basis of past profits was hard to analyse.
Sic s|c sic s|c
Heavy selling of picture scrip by a
Sydney broking firm has been a notable
feature of the past few weeks. Even
on a \\ p.c. div. basis (sometimes it’s 2\
p.c., paid from income on Consols, etc.),
West’s shares returned 5 p.c. at 6s. last
week; and most picture shares are
brought as a spec., not for immediate in-
come. This stock is the pick of the
Greater Union bunch, and deserves its
premium of Greater J. D. Williams
(4s. 4d.) and Spencer’s (2s. 9d.).
* * * *
Meggitt shares, mentioned as repre-
senting reasonable buying in B. 2/3/’3B
when at 315., have come through the
market setback in good shape. On Syd-
ney ’Change’s opening day 325. 6d. was
paid, and the market was firm 'On Tues-
day.
* * t- *
Yarra Falls shares sold at 375., ex div.,
last week in Sydney. A hundred shares
in this co. were bracketed with a similar
number each in North Coast Steam and
Australasian Paper ords. in B. 23 /3 / ’3B
as representing a good investment for
£516 outlay. Allowing for the div.,
Yarra Falls has lifted Is. since then,
North Coast Steam 25., while Austra-
lasian Paper has fallen 3d. Those who
bought should find it a satisfactory
bundle of shares in the long run. The
average return is about 5 p.c.
* * * *
Activity in Bankers and Traders’ In-
surance shares (paid to 10s.) was a
feature of the opening of Sydney
’Change, 300 shares passing over at 30s.
each. In its last term this co. earned
14.6 p.c. on capital, as against 20 p.c. and
17.1 p.c. in the two preceding years.
Average over the past quinquennium has
been 16 p.c. p.a., though only 7 p.c. has
gone out in divs., and at £132,863 re-
serves have grown to 40 p.c. greater than
paid capital (£95,175). Though the yield
at the current market is only 2.3 p.c., the
future of the scrip is attractive. A
bonus issue must come.
* * ■ * , *
In Melbourne last week:
The sharemarket opened less strongly than in
Sydney, ' but later bore up to the northern
’Change’s level.
Australasian Paper ords. were dealt in firmer
than before Easter at 305., and improved
again later. Associated Pulp, which is waiting
on the Government power-line to link up with
its works at Burnie (Tas.), had a weaker market
for' its ords. They changed hands at par
(205,). Both stocks were interesting.
Broken Hill Prop, fully-paids opened much
stronger (at 615.), though the demand wasn’t
quite so keen as in Sydney.
Australian Glass ords. were also weaker
than Sydney on the opening, initial turnover
being at 9,15. in Melbourne, as against 91s. 9d.
in the other centre.
H. B. Dickie, a former Bulletin choice at
a considerably lower figure, changed hands at
265. 6d. The co. makes towels and terry-cloth,
and has a good market for its products.
Henry Jones declared an unchanged interim
of 6d. a share.
Great Boulder scrip was strong at Bs. lOd.


¥*§&»iSi** ct
\
' i\«« N '.-'
m
.y.y-y
fill
»8w
with the improved
ATLANTIC ETHYL!
Australia's greatest super fuel, Atlantic Ethyl
now climbs even higher in anti-knock quality.
Introduced to meet the increasing demands of
modern engine specifications, this new Atlantic
Ethyl guarantees the greatest possible power
output and the longest distance per gallon in
any high compression car—and still has power
to spare! Test it yourself.
Atlantic Petrol is also improved! Its new anti-
knock quality is so great that it outclasses every
other fuel in the same price field—irrespective
of type! For all other than high compression
cars and trucks use the new Atlantic Petrol.
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD.
Incorporated in N.S.W. A.E.5. 48.38.
A
Use also
THE NEW. ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL
from pure paraffin base crude
fdf
df


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
A Case Against Japan.
[Stating that anti-British sentiment had “found
expression in Japan in a number of ways, including
publication and public demonstrations,” and that public
opinion in Britain “seems to be growing more
vehement against Japan,” the editor of Tokio “Orien-
tal Economist” invited Hugh Byas, Tokio correspon-
dent of London “Times,” to “give his views from the
standpoint of the average Englishman of intelligence on
the grievances which the average Japanese of intelli-
gence entertains against Britain.” Digest of Mr. Byas’s
frank reply.]
Japan has rejected every important proposal
Britain has made in recent years.
In 1935 the British Government sent its highest
economic adviser, Sir Frederick Leith-Ross, to Japan
to propose Anglo-Japanese co-operation for the
economic recovery of China. The offer was rejected.
Nevertheless, the plan succeeded, and Japan, with
others, benefited in large increase of exports.
In 1937 Britain proposed that Japan join the other
naval Powers in an agreement not to mount guns
larger than Min. on capital ships. That was the only
undertaking asked of Japan, although the other naval
Powers had accepted displacement and gun limitation
for all ships. Again Japan’s answer was “no.”
The immediate result of that refusal was the
substitution of 16in. guns for the Min. maximum that
all nations except Japan had adopted. Bigger guns
need bigger ships. Japan alleges that Britain, the
United States and France want bigger ships them-
selves, and that their recent inquiry [regarding Japan’s
alleged secret naval constructions] was a trick designed
to lay on Japan the guilt of a new naval race. But
if they now want bigger ships, the reason is that Japan
alone declined to accept the smaller gun.
The real question is security, and security depends
on many things besides the number of ships. The
Japanese Empire is grouped around a powerful
mother country thousands of miles from any poten-
tially hostile country possessed of a navy. The British
Dominions are separated by vast distances, and the
mother country is situated on the edge of the most
restless continent in the world. Does any Japanese
really feel that he is insecure unless he has a navy
as large as England’s? Is it not commonsense to
admit that the position and circumstances of a country
are the dominant element in its security, and the
number of its ships—its so-called ratio —a secondary
matter? But the British did not try to impose upon
Japan an inferior ratio. The British plan, which Japan
rejected in 1936, would have abolished ratios.
At the last naval conference (1935-36) the Japa-
nese presented a plan which they believed to be the
best. There were present at the conference America,
England, France and Italy as well as Japan. Not one
of them would accept the Japanese plan. Britain tried
to save something from the wreck, and with enormous
difficulty a scheme of qualitative limitation was de-
vised and agreed by all except Japan. (Italy did not
sign the treaty for political reasons but co-operated
up to the last, and many of the technical details of
the agreement were due to Italian inspiration.) Yet
the British plan was entirely consistent with Japan’s
principle of non-menace and non-aggression, it applied
with equal fairness to all Powers, and it abolished
the 5-5-3 ratio. No restrictions were imposed in the
British plan except a limitation, common to all, of
the maximum size of ships and guns.
British criticism of Japan’s naval policy is that it
is one of non-co-operation. It has destroyed the only
successful co-operative international effort for peace
accomplished since the World War its result is seen
in the revival of naval competition after a truce of 16
years.
As for the suggestion that England is aligning
the democratic countries against Japan, British policy
has emphatically opposed the division of the world
into ideological blocs. Far from supporting a “policy
of hate” Britain has tried to prevent the creation of
lines of division which lead straight to international
hatreds.
It is said that' England has “banged the door” in
her colonies against Japan’s peaceful expansion. How
comes it, then, that the British Empire is Japan’s best
customer, and that Japan’s trade with the British
Empire is continuously expanding? In 1935 Japan’s
exports to the British Empire were worth Y 712.4
millions ; in 1937 they were worth Y 882.9 millions,
an increase of 25 p.c. Japan’s exports to England
increased in the same period by 40 p.c. ; her exports
to British India by Y 24 millions, equal to 9 p.c.
The Anglo-Japanese commercial agreement, con-
cluded in 1911, was amended in 1932 at Japan’s
request. The amendment permitted Japan to increase
her tariffs on British goods and led to a decline of
British sales to Japan. In their commercial-treaty
relations, therefore, it cannot be said that Britain
has taken action unfavorable to Japan, but it can be
said that Japan has taken action unfavorable to
Britain.
Before the World War Britain’s average annual
proportion of the total imports to British India was
62.3 p.c., and Japan’s was 2.5 p.c. Since the war Japan’s
percentage has risen to 16.3 p.c. and Britain’s has
fallen to 38.8. Japan’s trade with the British Empire
is increasing more rapidly than her trade with any
other international group. Her sales to England alone
in the years 1925-36 rose by 100 p.c.; her purchases
from England in the same period decreased by 50
p.c. If those figures reveal obstruction or discrimi-
nation, it is not on England’s side.
Japan’s exports last year (in millions of yen):
British Empire, 882.9 ; United States, 639.4; Ger-
many, 47.2 ; Italy, 43.2. When they study these figures
my Japanese friends will agree that there is a solid
foundation on which to rebuild Anglo-Japanese friend-
ship ; and I hope they will share my astonishment at
the accusations that we are closing our door to Japa-
nese trade.
As to the British position in China, our policy
is simply that of the open door and international co-
operation. We have offered co-operation ; it has been
refused, and unrest in England concerning Japan’s
policy is due-to a fear that Japan seeks domination.
That is the fundamental issue.
“The Communists Surged”....
[This vignette of the human-interest side of leading
actors in the Austrian drama is noteworthy' for the
statement that Herr Hitler’s display of armed force was
made at the request of Dr. von Seyss-Inquart, Minister
for Security in the then Austrian Cabinet and now
Governor of the Austrian State. Dr. Seyss-Inquart’s
account is here condensed from London “Times.”]
As soon as Herr von Schuschnigg’s plan for a
plebiscite became known, we knew that the fate of
Austria lay in the hands of the Fiihrer.
Herr von Schuschnigg sat all day at his wireless
set to stifle his growing nervousness while disorder
increased in Vienna, and the Communists, armed by
the Mayor, Dr. Schmitz, surged through the streets
and the S.A. marched on the Ballhausplatz where the
Chancery stood.
I again went to him and said, “Herr Chancellor,
you must resign.” He tried to evade the subject and
talked to keep up his courage. I pointed out to him
the state of internal politics and reproached him for
breaking his word. Schuschnigg was taken aback.
He did not perceive the changed r situation. We had
become legal and he, through his own actions, illegal
and unconstitutional.
“You have become illegal,” I cried to him. Then
he sprang to his feet, as if the dawn of understanding
had destroyed his self-control, and shouted at me.
“Very well, I shall resign,” and ran into the next
room. He went then to President Miklas and handed
in his resignation.
Meanwhile, I requested that German troops be
sent to Austria, since the arming of the Communists
had reached an alarming degree and I wished to save
my country from the fate of Spain.
Fortified Frontiers.
[Condensed from an article by Ferdinand Tuphy in
London “Daily Mail," 5/4/’J3.]
Signor Mussolini’s announcement that he is
hermetically sealing the last Alpine passes negotiable
by an enemy focuses attention on the extraordinary
state of affairs that has come about on the Continent
in regard to frontier fortifications. Whole nations
are digging themselves in. Banking on mainly an
air, not a land, war, they are surrounding themselves
by theoretically impenetrable land barriers over which
the real war would be carried on in the air.
It all started ten years ago, when engineering
advisers of the French War Minister, the late Andre
Maginot, proposed the eastern frontier protective
system that has become historic. The original line
ran from Luxembourg to the Rhine and cost
£50,000,000. The point of chief importance has been
the merging of the forts and strong points in the sur-
rounding topography, so that they are as good as
invisible. Subterranean junctions and store centres
are linked together by scores of miles of galleries.
The main junctions, situated at points of highest
tactical and strategical consequence, possess every-
thing, from hospitals down, to withstand a cut-off
siege. The Maginot Line is now being extended to
Dunkirk.
Germany’s answer consists of three lines of forts
and strong points, known jointly as “Michel.” The
principal line includes the Eifel, the adjacent moun-
tainous region of the Moselle known as the Hunsriick.
and so on through the Odenwald to the western
slopes of the Black Forest. The second line runs from
the Taunus range, above Wiesbaden, to the valley
of the Neckar, behind Heidelberg. The third section
is intertwined in the Black Forest from Rastatt down
to Lorrach, on the Swiss frontier. This confronts
the French River Rhine fortifications.
Belgium’s fortified system covers about 80 miles
from the France-Luxembourg border to north of
Maestricht. In the densely wooded and hilly Ardennes
a special corps would operate. In the Eupen-Malmedy
area is a great slope on which are fortifications com-
manding the German main arteries half-way to
Cologne. Then comes the line of the Albert Canal.
But Belgians perhaps have most faith in their plan
of demolition, calculated to bar any inrush.
Holland stands by her dykes and waterways,
interspersed between which are many new batteries
and frontier garrison regiments.
In Switzerland a “Maginot” in miniature is com-
ing into being along the frontier strip considered
most vulnerable —from Bale to Lake Constance. But
the Confederation is not forgetting other areas, not-
ably the Jura, where there is a notorious “hole” facing
France. The mountain passes everywhere are, in the
Duce’s phrase, being hermetically sealed, and would
be held by specialised units living self-containedly at
immense altitudes.
Czechoslovakia’s defensive system will now prob-
ably be extended to counter the new fortifications
being begun by Germany along the late Austro-Czech
border to the south. All along the German border arc
concrete and steel pillboxes topped by cupola-shaped
steel turrets, sheltering machine-guns and anti-tank
guns.
Confronting the Czech line, the Germans have
erected a precautionary system which assumes con-
centrated form at points where danger of invasion
might lie. These fortifications are now being strength-
ened in the light of Moscow’s statement that it might
be necessary to drive a way through the 100 miles
of Rumanian territory separating the Soviet from her
Czech ally. The Czech frontier is only 130 miles
from Berlin, and the possibility, if remote, of the Red
Army appearing almost within sight of Dresden is
being taken into account.
Russia has an 800-mile western frontier from the
Gulf of Finland to Czernowitz, and 300 miles border-
ing Rumania to the Black Sea. A massive line of
strong points is under construction to guard the sup-
posedly coveted Ukraine. North and south of this,
especially north, the Soviet is relying on a belt ol
waste land, believed to be 20 miles in depth in parts.
Road and rail points would be blown up in the event
of invasion, while batteries would have a clean sweep
over the prepared (and heavily mined) defensive “no-
man’s-land.”
The Finns have built a brief fortified system
against the Bolsheviks.
Finally, on a frontier that has for a century and
a quarter gone unfortified —-the Pyrenees —the French
are drawing up plans to defend the five principal
points of ingress.
Desecration in Spain.
[Just returned from visiting Spain, Wing-Commander
James, M.P., gave the House of Commons on April 4
the account of his personal observations contained in
this digest of London “Times” report. His remarks
will not be found in cables.]
To say that this war in Spain is between Fascism
and Communism is an appalling oversimplification.
This war was inevitable, and it is not necessarily
linked with the divisions in Europe.
Bitterness has been accentuated by the religious
aspect. I made a point of going into as many churches
behind the advancing troops as possible. I did not
go into one town or village in which the church had
not been desecrated.
One of the most horrible things I have ever seen
was a cemetery which had been occupied the day 7
before I went into it. 1 had heard in Saragossa a
story of unpleasant happenings in this cemetery. It
was not an exhibit, for there was a Civic Guard on
duty, and I was not allowed in till I had got a special
permit.
A large number of the tombs had been broken
open and the coffins pulled out —in some cases they
had been pulled out just a couple of feet and the ends
torn open. Where there had been jewellery on the
body the coffin had been pulled out and the corpse
tipped out. I saw where ring fingers had been broken
off. There were gross obscenities drawn on all the
walls and inscriptions to match.
This does inflame a side which believes that it
has a religious basis.
A Rush for Gas-masks.
[By easing international tension Chamberlain foreign
policy i§ steadying the near-panic in England revealed
in this digest of a London “Daily Mail” report
(6/4/’3B), which also indicates the sweeping nature of
the new air-raid-precaution measures. (Birmingham
“Mail”: “There have been folk who have wondered
whether A.R.P. stood for Air Raid Panic rather than
Air Raid Precautions.”) Touching the panic aspect, the
London “Daily Mail” report had beside it an article
giving careful instructions, with diagram, on digging
air-raid-precaution trenches in householders’ gardens.]
There was a remarkable response to the Home
Office announcement that 30,000,000 gas-masks were
ready for immediate distribution to local authorities
with storehouses to accommodate them.
The Home Office had the biggest telephone bom-
bardment it has ever known. City, urban and rural
councils asked for further details of the plan and
Lord Nuffield Protests.
Making his first public appearance after his
return from Australia, Lord Nuffield at Oxford on
April 8 sharply attacked the English press (from
such inglorious examples of which as the “News-
Chronicle” cables to Australian dailies are largely
drawn).
Speaking of the press in relation to world con-
ditions, Lord Nuffield, as reported in London “Tele-
graph,” said: —•
“The reports received in Australia and New
Zealand, I presume, have been gathered from
the press.
“If 1 may say so, the press of our country
exaggerates conditions, and while I was perfectly
satisfied that the old country was still in a posi-'
tion to look after itself, the press was thoroughly
unfair.”
Touching on this sort of reporting as its canards
affected himself personally, Lord Nuffield added: —
“You will have gathered that I have joined
the movie industry and that / have subscribed
£1,000,000 to it. Even if / had nightmares I never
thought of that.
“The press had only to ring up Cowley to
find out that I knew nothing about the rumor.
Everyone would have known there that I had
never gone so far. It was dippy.
“The people overseas look upon our press as
giving reasonable information and that is the kind
of thing they are getting. It is literally dis-
gusting.”


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY. LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: IS Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England: Westminster Bank, Limited;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Wonderful holiday four to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BURNS,PHIIP
& CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: 87901
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington. N.Z.
■
Wi
assured the A.R.P. department that as soon as pos-
sible they would select their stores.
Two authorities—Ramsgate and Blackburn (home
of the gas-mask factory) have already secured
premises. The Home Office urges conversion
wherever possible, but in some cases it may be neces-
sary to erect a special building.
Experiments have shown that each store should
not contain more than 30,000 respirators, which means
that Greater London will require nearly 300 buildings.
The announcement that more wardens were
required to help in the distribution of the masks was
a great help to recruiting ; hundreds of men and
women volunteered at A.R.P. centres. Officials are
reconsidering using London’s tube stations as air-raid
shelters at night.
Indicating the state of public feeling generally,
Bermondsey Town Hall was the scene of a conference
11 re P resentat ives of 120 local firms, representing
30,000 men, and the borough council, and was the
nrst of its kind to be held. The town clerk said there
were 250 volunteers in the borough, exclusive of the
council staff. Another example is Nottingham, which
is solving problem of gas-mask depots by com-
mandeering old police stations, and is arranging for
, framing of the entire population, including
night* 1 ' 10 c^asses > t° be held simultaneously each
Conversation with Hitler.
• i* n book Ourselves and Germany, just published
v; ord Londonderry, for four years Britain’s
• ... r y. °‘ otate for Air, includes the points contained
! , ls ,oigest as highlights of a two hours’ conversation
1936 ] W ™ HCrr Hitler durin g his visit to Berlin in
, to now,” I said, “I have not gathered from
the German point of view whether you comnletelv
disagree with the League of Nations conception and
believe Russia is such a great and eternal menace
that the world must thereby be split into two camps.”
The Fiihrer replied that while Germany was a
member of the League of Nations the Soviet question
was not acute, as nobody then thought that Russia
would one day be admitted to membership of the
League. Even to-day, he went on, opinions as to the
advantage of the Russian membership were extremely
divided, and, as recent developments had shown, there
were States who had sat in the League with Russia
but had broken off diplomatic relations with her.
Of the League conception as such Germany did
not disapprove. But a real League of Nations could
only be a League of States whose interests and general
outlook were identical. It would be hopeless to try
to unite in one League of Nations elements which
actually differed as widely as fire and water.
“Russia,” he said, “would make use of the
League solely to strengthen her position, and through
the channels of the League to deliver moral attacks
on other countries with greater ease. Finally, she
would give the deathblow to the League itself, just
in the same way as one does not allow germ-carriers
in ordinary life to frequent the society of healthy
people, so we must keep Russia ‘at a distance. Ger-
many is not, therefore, opposed to the idea of a
League of Nations, but rather to the disguising of a
latent menace by the present League.”
He added that the League would finally become
just a paper illusion, and would be represented by
a few typewriters. Russia would then, at the con-
clusion of this process of change, stand forth as a
mighty Power, let fall her mask, and live only' for
World Revolution.
I observed that in England we did not attribute
so much importance to the Bolshevist menace, as con-
ditions actually were different. During my stay in
Germany I had gained certain impressions and could
as an old soldier, form an idea of German military
strength.
“I quite understand,” I said, “that Germany is a
great nation and must possess an armament in propor-
tion to her size.” At the same time I felt bound to
point out the fears in England over German rearma-
ment. It was a question, therefore, of discovering by
which way mutual relations might be improved.
The Ftihrer declared that the only possibility
of a mutual understanding lay in studying the men-
tality of the two countries and seeking grounds for
common agreement. He went on to refer to Russo-
Japanese relations, and stated it as his opinion that
England would in no way gain by the defeat of Japan,
but that Bolshevism would then conquer the whole
of Eastern Asia and become a menace to India.
I observed that we were afraid in England, where
there was much sympathy with German aims, that
England would find herself one day opposed by
Germany on the colonial question, and that Germany
was creating her present armaments solely with the
object of colonial conquest.
“An exact statement of German aims,” I added,
would do much to disarm the suspicion at present
existing in England.”
The Fiihrer asked me if people in England
thought Italy’s colonial enterprise had proved so
enticing as to encourage Germany to adopt the same
procedure.
I answered that I had not had in view the direct
warlike action on the part of Germany, but that for
the maintenance of friendly relations between the two
countries such fears, up to the present so disturbing,
must be removed.
“No one in Germany understands why war should
be waged for a colony,” said Herr Hitler. “But, on
the other hand, no one understands why Germany
should be active in international politics without hav-
ing absolute equality with other nations.”
Germany, he went on, did not want to take away
its colonies from any country, but the colonies which
had been taken away from her were unjustly
taken away. A nation of 68 millions had
certain necessities of life, of rights which Germany
would never abuse, but which must be taken into
consideration.
“Consideration for the necessities of life of
nations, which as such are eternal,” he declared, “is
the highest object and art of statesmanship, and in the
measure in which the understanding of these necessi-
ties becomes more enlightened in all countries, so will
international co-operation be facilitated. Germany
wants to live in close friendly alliance with England,
and for England perhaps the time will come when she
will have to consider the question whether an active
friendship with Germany, or whether the possession
of a couple of colonies which for the British Empire
are not of very great value, is the more important.”
New York’s World Fair.
(Condensed from an article by London “Times” New York
Correspondent, 7/41’38.)
The discussions for a trade agreement between
Great Britain and the United States give impetus to
the British preparations for the New York World
Fair, which will not be opened until April 30 next
year but is already well advanced. The exhibition
will be on a magnificent scale.
It celebrates a momentous American event of 150
years ago next year. On April 30, 1789, George
Washington took the oath as first President of the
United States.
The organisers of the fair, explaining their
motive, speak of enlisting the nations of the world
“in an attempt to build a new World of To-morrow
.... a fuller, happier existence for the average man.”
Fifty-four nations have already advised that they will
take part.
Optimism must be generated if the Fair is to be
a worthy foe of the recession, and it has been written
that $150,000,000 (£30,000,000) will be spent by all the
nations exhibiting and that “in 1939 50,000,000 people
will come to New York and spend one billion
dollars.” It is consoling for the promoters to know
that the Chicago Fair of 1933 succeeded in spite of the
depression, and fairs held in Philadelphia in 1876,
Chicago in 1893, and St. Louis in 1904 all opened in
bad times. To stimulate interest now in the 1939
exhibition it is proposed to have a parade through
the streets of New York this April 30, one year before
the opening.-
The site of the fair was until recently a 1200-
acres swamp, into which went a great deal of the city’s
refuse. It is on the north shore of Long Island.
Only I wo of the fair’s structures will be permanent.
The remainder will be taken down after the exhibi-
tion and the area will become a city park. The
permanent structures are a recreation building and a
marine amphitheatre. The stage for the theatre will
be an island close to the shore of a lake, and the
auditorium, seating 16,500 people, will be on the
shore,
Next to the recreation building will stand two
remarkably conspicuous objects—a steel ball 200 ft.
high beside a steel triangular tower 700 ft. high. This
will be the theme centre. The ball will have the
appearance of being supported on fountain jets, and
manipulation of lights will make it seem to revolve
in clouds as the globe might do. In it there will be
room for 1500 persons, who, from slowly-moving plat-
forms, may watch a passing panorama of the world
of to-morrow. Grouped round the theme centre will
be the buildings containing American exhibits.
A central mall will run in a straight line from
the theme centre to an oval lagoon, and on the other
side of the lagoon the foreign Governments’ buildings
will spread fanwise. To attract exhibitors, certain
nations, Britain and the Dominions among them, were
allocated free 10,000 square feet, but as the number
of exhibitors is greater than was expected there is now
a shortage of space.
The British Empire, with 140,000 square feet, has
the most space of the foreign exhibitors. Australia,
New Zealand, some of the colonies and possibly
India will share in the British undertaking, but South
Africa has indicated she will not take part and Canada
prefers to erect her own exhibits near the Federal
building. In view of the fact that South Africa is the
largest gold-producing country and America the largest
gold purchaser, her decision is a little surprising, and
from the British point of view is to be regretted.
Government departments are responsible for
Britain's representation at this fair. This was not so
at the Paris Exhibition, and efforts will be made to
render the British pavilion more imposing than it
was in Paris.
J. Bull Slips at Sea.
facts” were given in the annual
report of the Chamber of Shipping, presented at the
meeting in London on March 30. |
The total seagoing steam and motor tonnage
?wn ed the United Kingdom in June, 1914, was
18.9 million gross tons, 44 p.c. of the world’s total.
oo Jun % l936 ’ ad to 17.2 million gross tons,
28 p.c. United Kingdom tonnage is now 1.5 million
gross tons below what it was in 1914, while tonnage
owned abroad has increased by 21.4 million gross tons,
from 26.5 million to 47.9 million.
The proportion of British tonnage employed in
trade between the United Kingdom and the Empire
has dechned from 90.4 p.c. in 1936 to 89.8 p.c. in
1937, compared with 94.3 p.c. in 1913.
The decline in numbers of vessels owned in the
United Kingdom (owing to increase in average size)
even more striking, from 8587 in June, 1914, to
6903 in June, 1937. The latter figures include tankers.
Excluding these there were about 2000 fewer United
Kingdom cargo and passenger vessels than in 1914.
These facts are disquieting when it is remem-
bered that 7,000,000 gross tons of United Kingdom
shipping were sunk in the Great War and that the
United Kingdom population has increased from
45,500,000 in 1913 to 50,000,000 in 1937.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Great is the drawing power of a great
horse. The third day of the A.J.C. races
was an unpleasant early-winter day, and
for once the Royal Show was a counter-
attraction (in previous years it had ended
on Tuesday); but people wanted to see
Ajax, and they were at Randwick in pre-
depression numbers.
The champion chestnut had four oppo-
nents in the All-Aged Plate, and the ring
demanded 8 to 1. He was always in
front and never in trouble. Mohican
(15 to 1), leaving the others, crept up to
within a length of him in the straight,
but it was only on sufferance ; Ajax had
moved away another half-length when
the judge’s box was reached.
An interesting tussle for third money
between King’s Head and Evening Mist
ended in favor of the stallion. El Golea’s
good looks attracted very favorable
notice, but he galloped like a second-
rater. It was his first run at Randwick,
and perhaps that accounts for it.
Ajax’s time for the mile, lmin. 35+sec.,
equals the Australian record, which he
shares with Peter Pan, Sarcherie and
Ramdin. He could have cut at least a
second off had he been pushed.
Badger rode Heroic’s best son. It was
an eventful day for the young Victorian.
He was on two other winners, Ajax’s
stable-companion Beechwood (Bronte
Handicap) and Old Rowley (Cumberland
Plate), and on Nuffield, who ran second
to Pandava in the Champagne Stakes;
then he was suspended for a month for
having permitted Old Rowley to run out
and interfere with Northwind.
Among handicap horses, Bradford was
the great disappointment of the round.
A ton of money was lost on him in the
Doncaster and in the Bronte. In the latter
race there was an excuse for him, for he
bumped Captain Oates, and both came
in bleeding, Captain Oates just staggering
past the post. All the same, Beechwood
won so well, after cutting down the con-
sistent Herarde, that the result would
probably have been the same had there
been no collision. Beechwood is a better
horse at Randwick than at Flemington.
Old Rowley’s price in a field of six
was 20 to 1. A two lengths’ lead secured
for him by Badger at the home turn was
the decisive manoeuvre. The bookmakers
seemed anxious to lay Allunga, accepting
a price (7 to 4 on) that seemed philan-
thropic. He finished pretty well on the
rails, and many thought he had won,
but Old Rowley had beaten him by a
head.
A fast beginning gave Pandava the
Champagne Stakes, Nuffield having to
concede too much start over the last two
furlongs of the “six.” Fort Regal was
again third to these colts, and after the
race many were saying that he would
stay better than either.
The Bulletin’s racing man had to
put up with a bit of ridicule because he
picked Bristol for the Melbourne Cup.
He had the satisfaction of seeing Bristol
prove himself a nailing good colt in the
City Handicap, in which the black son
of Pantheon and Bairn, last most of the
way and third-last into the straight, put
in a hair-raising finish to win by half a
length. And behind him were some good
horses: Sal Volatile (Adrian Knox
Stakes), Silver Standard (second in the
1936 Metrop. and in the two Cups), Soft
Step (Queensland Cup), Billy Boy (Tatt.’s
Club Cup) and Sir Regent (1937 Metrop.
and second in the Caulfield Cup). It was
the performance of a real stayer, and
there will no jeers or sneers if The Bul-
letin picks Bristol for the next Mel-
bourne Cup. He was favorite at 9 to 2.
Seven Heroic yearlings, the last of the
great sire’s progeny, fetched 6726 guineas
at the Sydney sales, top price being 2300
guineas for a chestnut colt out of
Trasina. If he turns out half as good as
Ajax he will be a bargain. Ajax’s win
in the A.J.C. Cropper Plate was his sixth
in succession. Though Pandava (receiv-
ing 261 b.), King’s Head, Gold Rod and
Mohican were his opponents he was
never extended. Many backers thought
that on the soft track Pandava would get
too far in front to be caught. Ajax had
the two-year-old in trouble half a mile
from home, even though Pandava was
then two lengths clear. Turning into the
straight Bartle let the champion stride
out, and, running home at his leisure,
Ajax beat the most brilliant of the young-
sters by two or three lengths. King’s Head
was a poor third. Gold Rod looked fit
enough, but came in a bad last.
The bookmakers took 7 to 4 Ajax (it
was 2 to 1 on when they shut their bags).
The time was lmin. 13isec.
Only three starters in the A.J.C. Plate
for a prize of £1250! The A.J.C. should
really invest in a club horse. Allunga,
who won the race last year was favorite,
but he is not so well as he was then,
and Old Rowley beat him again. Darby
Munro wisely took Old Rowley to the
front from the start, and, maintaining a
solid pace throughout, the chestnut shook
off Allunga when the latter came with
the last run at the Leger. Aitchengee,
alleged to be a champion when the going
is on the soft side, was last all the way.
Old Rowley was at 2 to 1.
The state of the track didn’t prevent
Beechwood from scoring comfortably in
the Rous Handicap, his 9st. 101 b. not-
withstanding ; and he went out at 6 to 1.
Two lightweights, Rosante and Denis,
filled the places, and imported Corona-
tion Day ran on well to finish fourth.
Ctesar made a fast move at the top of
the straight, but was beaten quickly, and
his rider did not knock him about.
Cid, another substantially-built horse
with a big weight, 9st. 81b., took the
Woollahra Handicap, being well backed
at 5 to 1. Warrawing, who was sore
when doing his preliminary, looked the
winner until tackled by Cid at the Leger.
Mordent was third, and may win some-
thing easier. Sedunum (fourth) likes
matters all his own way, and didn’t get
them with Warrawing acting as pace-
maker. Palarang, a street-corner tip, was
last most of the way and beat two home.
Gay Knight (5 to 1), carrying the colors
of the Sydney Cup winner, L’Aiglon,
won the Dangar Handicap under difficul-
ties. His saddle began to shift half a
mile from home; nevertheless, young
Harvey, keeping his seat —and his head
—passed the judge nearly a length ahead
of the second horse, Northwind (El
Senorita was a poor third).
The saddle had almost worked up to
the horse’s neck at the Leger, where
Northwind ran to the front. Gay Knight,
with Harvey sitting up straight, fought
on and won cleverly. Harvey well de-
served the cheers he got. Apollo’s
second in the Sydney Cup pointed to his
having a chance, but fifth was the best
he could do. The black ran for O’Hara
and the executors of C. P. Barden, poor
Barden having died after the Cup race.
The Mudgee-owned Cragite, quoted at
20 to 1 for the Fernhill Handicap, won
that race for two-year-olds with surprising
ease. Geebung was hailed as the winner
a furlong from home, but he tired, and
Cragite, a plain-looking son of Hazrat
and Weeterina, beat him by three lengths.
Grand Hotel, one of Jim Pike’s team,
was third, after having' been in the lead-
ing division for most of the journey—a
mile. Sol Green’s Brethren, a 7-to-2
favorite, was never out of trouble.
Allunga’s stablemate Head Check (8
to 1), served by her light weight and by
Harvey’s horsemanship, won the Final
Handicap after a close finish with the
pacemaker, Blinky Bill. Speardale was
third, but the finish was really confined
to the other two. Country Party (fourth)
did not jump out cleanly and met with
more than one check at different stages.
Soft Sten was another to bump trouble.
Head Check was backed down from
twelves.
Thanks to the reduction of taxes and
charges, tote figures showed a gratifying
increase. For the four days they
amounted to £208,187, as against £165,030
for the 1937 Easter meetings. Provided
more clerks are put on, especially at the
pay-out windows, and a doubles tote is
installed, future meetings at Randwick
will show a greater increase still.
* * * *
Mentone (Vic.) racing began with a
well-earned win for Restford in the
Bullecourt Hurdle. He had lengths
to spare from Kerry Bay on the post,
but at the final obstacle Kerry Bay made
a very bad blunder which may have cost
him the race.
• ••«••
Bert Thompson’s handling of Restford
shows that this veteran horseman has lost
none of his skill and judgment. Thomp-
son’s methods differ from those of his
younger contemporary, Fullarton, who
has been a “dasher” ever since he won
a Grand National from end to end on
Sandhurst. Though he can ride a
punishing finish when occasion requires,
Thompson usually practises restraint.
Overshadowing all other features at
Mentone was Frank Dempsey’s magnifi-
cent effort in winning the Damascus
Handicap on Atticus.
From the financial angle Dempsey is
“sitting pretty,” mainly as the result of
his triumphs on Eurythmic and other
celebrities when first jockey to Jack
Holt’s stable. Indifferent nowadays as
to whether he rides or doesn’t ride,
Frank seeks the nearest safety zone
when inexperienced lads are causing a
field to jumble. Yet, given ample gal-
loping room, he makes old-timers
remember how Tom Hales, Mick
O’Brien and Ted Gorrv excelled.
• 9 * « • •
At 5 to 2 Atticus started in only a
shade better demand than Wilson’s
mount, Amplify, a handsome chestnut
colt by Marconigram, the sire of Mara-
bou. Drawing the extreme outside'
berth, Dempsey quickly had Atticus in
a favorable position. Amplify didn’t
begin so well, but a powerful run from
the straight entrance enabled him to
head Atticus 50 yards from home.
Then came a spectacle that made
tongues wag in appreciation for the
remainder of the afternoon. Glued to
the saddle and motionless except as far
as his whip arm was concerned, Demp-
sey literally outrode Wilson to register
a half-head victory.
Atticus is trained by R. D. O’Donnell
for Albert Tyson, whose uncle John died
last week. John Tyson, besides being
the owner of Geramy station, near Ox-
ley (N.S.W.), managed the sheep-station
interests of A. T. Creswick. When in
Melbourne he rarely missed an important
meeting, but he wasn’t known on the
turf as an owner.
Quoted at 15 to 1 and paying slightly
more in the win tote pool, Hardwood
(Ronsard —Lady Saracen) gave McShort-
odds his solitary turn-up for the day by
annexing the middle-distance Pozieres
Handicap. That gay deceiver Desert
Chief, favorite at 6 to 4, swung out wide
on the bend when asked to chase Hard-
wood. He failed by three lengths.
Punters made a solemn vow to wipe the
M.L. stallion off their list for ever. Two
seasons ago Desert Chief won an Epsom
Cup and the V.A.T.C. Herbert Power
Handicap. Still a good-looker, he has
developed into a bad actor.
« « » » I 9
The Dardanelles Handicap, for three-
year-olds, went to Pageant, a 5-to-4
favorite, with Mate o’ Mine (sevens) and
Devonian (tens) in the minor places.
Devonian is trained by Duncan, the
former champion jockey. Pageant
(Windbag—Gay Element) belongs to H.
E. Spry. He has thickened into a hand-
some colt, and is low-set, like The Trump
and Hostile, little ’uns that have earned
fame in Victoria.
Harry Freedman, whose visit to
Sydney with El Golea didn’t turn out
as well as was hoped, won the Gallipoli
Handicap with Sweet Memories. Her
price, 6 to 4, prevented the stable mak-
ing much profit. In charge a long way
from home, Sweet Memories scored by
a substantial margin from Silver Reign
(sixes), who cut Finch (9 to 4) out of
second money.
Hardwood carries the livery of N.
Michener, a Flinders-lane manufacturer.
His trainer, F. Hurley, took Hardwood
to Launceston in February to run in the
King’s Cup ; but the gelding went wrong
in his preparation and finished last.
Desert Chief sadly failed Fryer, but
Flying Chief, another son of Chief Ruler,
compensated the M.L. trainer by taking
the Somme Welter at 6 to 1. It was a
tight finish, Flying Chief vanquishing
Barham (6 to 1) by a head, with Ngapuna
(fives) a moderate third. The favorite,
Vocal, beat only four of her 14 rivals.
A half-sister to Garrio, she is trained by
Lou Robertson.
* * * *
John Spencer Brunton and Walter
Brunton were brothers, pals, business ,
associates and fellow-devotees of the
Sport of Kings, and death did not long
divide them: Walter Brunton died in
Sydney last week. Head of the flour-
milling business started in Melbourne
by his father, Thomas Brunton, M.L.C.,
in 1868 and extended to Sydney in 1887,
Walter was born and went to school in
the southern capital. He became a mem-
ber of the A.J.C. 40 years ago, and had
been on the committee for 20 years.
Among the good steeds he raced were
Valparaiso, Chrystal and Mangoola, and
he was the proud possessor of the
King’s Cup, won for him by Valparaiso
at Brisbane in 1929.
sic * * *
The highest price at the yearling sales
in Sydney was realised by H. A. Taylor
for a chestnut colt by imported Melfort
out of Lalaguli. Dalton, the trainer,
gave 2800 guineas for him on behalf of a
patron. Winooka is Australian-bred, so
the cheapest youngsters sold were the first
of the Winookas, and the first of the Chat-
hams did not fetch nearly as much as they
might have been expected to do. Sons
of Windbag and grandsons of Magpie,
Winooka and Chatham were first-class
racehorses and are stylish-looking sires ;
yet A. J. Matthews had to sell the two
Winookas he paraded first for 115
guineas the pair; the best price he
got was 290 guineas for a bay colt
by Winooka - Wynrich: Ajax’s trainer
bought it. Sons and daughters of
Chatham attracted rather more spirited
competition, but 16 averaged only 226
guineas. Considering the recent achieve-
ments of Marauder, L’Aiglon, Old
Rowley and Gay Knight, the progeny
of The Buzzard, that proved descendant
of Carbine, should also have brought
more. William Kelso gave 850 guineas
for a bay colt by The Buzzard-Salvia.
{Continued on page 32.)
M.Q. and Rafferty
Jimmy Leto (1 Ost. 51b.) had a points
win over Jack McNamee (lOst. b.) in
a dull engagement at Sydney Arena on
Monday afternoon. McNamee put up
a showing that surprised many. He
opened Leto’s left cheek in the third,
scored fairly well with his straight left,
and in the one or two moments of real
fighting mixed things willingly enough.
But he is an awkward-looking and spoil-
ing fighter, and it would be a rare thing
for a mill in which he figured to be
much of a spectacle. Most of the time
he was on the retreat. Leto scored his
points with left hooks, and once —in the
ninth —dropped the Victorian. When
McNamee rose Leto gave an inglorious
display in trying to finish him off.
Weathering that with ease, McNamee
came out, to give a good performance in
the final round, but Leto was too far
ahead for it to matter.
Footbrawl
Just on 100,000 people saw the six
V.F.L. games that opened the 1938 season.
A second-quarter burst in which Mel-
bourne kicked 55 points to Geelong’s 14
paved the way for Melbourne’s defeat of
the 1937 premiers by 20-12 to 17-13. The
other surprise was the licking Essendon
administered to St. Kilda, 17-17 to 12-13.
In the other games South Melbourne
got home against Footscray, 14-13 to
9-14; Collingwood staged a late-game
rally to beat Fitzroy, 14-21 to 12-15 ;
Richmond, 19-26, ran away from North
Melbourne, 9-9; and Carlton caught
Hawthorn’s first-half lead to end up
the winners, 14-8 to 11-10.
Prahran, the 1937 Association premiers,
was also downed in Melbourne, Brighton,
four points behind at three-quarter time,
winning in the last spell by 14-20 to 13-12.
Coburg surprised Camberwell, 21-15 to
17-10; Yarraville beat Sandringham, 18-
14 to 14-18 ; Brunswick left Northcote,
17-13 to 6-16 ; Preston headed Port Mel-
bourne, 18-13 to 17-17; and Oakleigh
accounted for Wiliamstown by singles,
13-28 to 14-11.
{Continued on page 32.)
FOR RANDWICK.
Denman Stakes: Might Not;
next, Moaveil.
Trial Handicap: Jamieson’s elect
(Dutiful or Kai Tere); next, The
Athenian or Aladdin.
City Tatt.’s Cup: With a start,
Bristol. Otherwise, Sal Volatile ;
next, Hope.
Club Welter: Red Thespian;
next, Sedunum or The Athenian.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
Wokingham Handicap: Sweet
Memories ; next, Barham or Finch.
Aylesford Handicap: Dignitary ;
next, Beau Ham.
Welter: Barham or Riddle ; next,
Palatinate.


r
om\
fir
xH
d
i
\v^
tss
IK
a\>
As
a
US
Ov
£
3MRK
k
■
\>
NIGHT and DAY
you’ll be glad you Kept to Johnnie Walker
No man was ever the better for mixing his
drinks, and everyone who keeps to Johnnie
Walker for an evening is glad the next
morning that he did so.
There is something essentially clean and
refreshing about the taste of Johnnie
Walker evidence of the purity and age
of the fine whiskies from which it is
blended. An evening with Johnnie Walker
is a pleasant evening and pleasant to look
back on —so always ask for Johnnie Walker
by name.
JOHNNIE
WAbKER
Born 1820 —Still going' strong
v’\
s v •
* !
fii
JOHN WALKER &, SONS LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY
J.W.85.8.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
ACCELERATION DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
DEPEND ON Champions
ACCELERATION can only be
satisfactory in an engine with per-
fect ignition. To get the kind of
“pick-up” that makes driving a
real pleasure, install a set of new
Champions every year.
An Empire product
made in Windsor, Canada
»»*
»7*
XJ2JJJJ }
jyjjj}/]
yjjjjjjj
ujjrr.
iw/
2?
RE-VITALIZE
YOUR CAR
WITH
Champions
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Under the Whip
An offer of 1000 guineas was refused
in Melbourne the other day for Brave
Mark (Bravia-Fervour), who ran away
with the juvenile event' at Epsom —his
third win on end. Brave Mark is a
grandson of Heroic, his dam being a
half-sister to Middle Watch, who in 1932
beat Ammon Ra in the two St. Leger races.
As a racehorse, Bravia proved a wash-
out ; but, if Brave Mark can be accepted
as a criterion, many good gallopers will
come from the Gippsland-district pro-
geny of Bravia. Though his stud days
have ended, Heroic’s fame as a stallion
will be maintained by his descendants.
* * * *
Seventy bookmakers, each of whom
paid a license fee of two guineas, oper-
ated at the Mornington (Vic.) meeting,
and they didn’t lack patrons. Which
shows the immense popularity of racing
in and round" Melbourne.
* * * *
Melbourne barristers have developed
an itch for racehorse ownership. “G.
Ornong,” K.C., set the ball rolling —he
has done particularly well with John
Wilkes. His example was followed by
H. Minogue, who often clashes swords
with “Ornong” in court. The latest
man of law to enter the ranks of
owners is “F. Falcon,” who won the
Trial Handicap at Mornington with Lul-
laby, a Devonshire filly trained by Jack
Sing. Apropos, Sing was on Haoma
when that horse struck its colors to
Claude Grice’s Fleetstone (owner up) in
the memorable 1924 Grand National at
Flemington. J. H. Flannagan, of Adel-
aide, who owned Haoma, fielded at Morn-
ington, and had to pay out over the odds-
on success of Lullaby.
* * * *
George Jones, trainer of
Limerick, pronounced Eurasia unbeatable
in the Maiden Plate at Mornington if she
ran up to track form. The mare wouldn’t
do her best for Skidmore, and missed a
place. Eurasia, who belongs to Alan
Currie, the V.R.C. chairman, is by
Equator-Liloise. Jones declares that she
is the fastest galloper of her sex in Vic-
toria. But what about Evening Mist?
t * * *
Fred Hoysted made a splendid bargain
when he bought Irving out of Bailey
Payten’s stable on behalf of “W. J. Pel-
ham” and his brother, C. F. Taylor.
Irving’s success atr Williamstown streng-
thened Wilson’s position at the head of
winning jockeys in Melbourne, and
placed Hoysted three winners in advance
of Freedman on the trainers’ premiership
list. Last season Freedman wrested the
honor from Jack Holt. Holt’s team in-
cludes Nuffield, but isn’t numerically as
strong as the teams of Hoysted and
Freedman.
❖ $ $ H:
La Cannette (Drake-Lagune), who
won the chief event at Mornington, is a
sister to Ruach. Ruach credited his
breeder, “S. A. Rawdon,” with the Adel-
aide Guineas and the S.A. A.J.C. St.
Leger, besides putting up a stern tussle
with Peter Jackson in the Moonee Valley
Cup in 1933.
:j« sjs ijc
“Sturt”: The Onkaparinga R.C. faces
a direct loss of £2OOO and an in-
direct loss of £4OOO by having to aban-
don its sole fixture (B. 21/4/’3B).
Its ill-luck was amazing. Till dusk on
the Friday, the course was too
hard, after the warmest autumn on
local record. Within 24 hours, the
Onkaparinga River behind the stands
was boiling up to them. By Sunday
midday, abandonment was obvious;
and the Melbourne visiting owners
hurried off home. Then Monday bright-
ened up, to prevent the club’s collecting
the £lOOO insurance which depended on
rain falling that morning. Some com-
pensation to visiting owners is talked of,
but the club’s members stand to get
nothing at all for this year’s subscrip-
tion.
Foofbrcawl
“Richmond”: Melbourne League foot-
ball clubs ate taking the secession of star
players to the Association very badly.
“Sowth” was so riled over the capture of
Nash by Camberwell that it has refused
to grant him a clearance. This has forced
the young gentleman, aided and abetted
by his new club, to cross over without
one, thus creating a precedent which
knocks sky-high the remnants of the
gentlemen’s and other agreements which
have been entered into in the past by
League and Association. *
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian F.A. is
thinking out some way of overcoming its
heaviest handicap since the League break-
away—the distance from the city of the
suburban grounds where most of the
Association clubs have their being, while
the League clubs flourish in the more
accessible inner zone. It is suggested
that the Railway Department should help
by issuing special football tickets at con-
cession rates on production of a club
member’s ticket by the applicant. It is
urged that this would not only increase
the Association gates but the rail takings
on Saturdays and holidays.
* * * *
“Rover”: N.S.W. Australian Rulers
intend to carry their game into the
wilder portions of Sydney in the hope
of converting the heathen dwelling there.
“He Was only a nuisance, anywa y!”
Arrangements have been made with the
R.U. to share Kogarah Oval for a start,
and the first game under that code in
those parts will be played there on June
13. Richmond (Vic.) and East Perth
(W.A.) will both be playing in Sydney
this season. Unfortunately, the only
available dates, July 16 and 23, clash
with big Rugby fixtures, and the games
may have to be played on suburban
grounds.
* * *
“Brass Addler”: The Maoriland
Rugby Union confesses to a net profit
of over £17,000 on the Springbok tour.
Total receipts from matches were
£26,384 and expenses £8679. Some of
the swag is to be parcelled out among
those provincial Unions which were not
allotted a match with the visitors. A
significant paragraph in the annual
report points out that the ’Boks showed
that, properly played, the international
rules lacked nothing in attractiveness in
comparison with the “amended” variety.
It is a certainty that M.L. will throw
overboard the half-caste League “amend-
ments,” and the sooner the Australian
Unions follow suit the better for the
game.
“Everton”: April 30 will see the 66th
final for the British Association Cup,
better known by its North Country title
of “T’ Coop.” No sporting event in
Britain commands a greater following,
and of late years when it has been staged
at Wembley all roads from Newcastle,
Liverpool and Cardiff converge on the
big arena. This year Preston North End
and Huddersfield Town are in the final.
North End is high up on the League
division table this year, and Town is so
near the bottom that a drop to the second
division may be its portion. The com-
petition is a knockout one,.and before
to-day an unknown club has scored.
North End won in 1888-89, and the same
year headed the League first division.
Huddersfield won in 1921-22, when North
End furnished the opposition in the final,
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The British Football
Association is talking of abolishing
“heading” the ball, or at least restricting
it to the penalty area. So common has
been the practice of late that footwork,
the most attractive part of the round-
ball game, is suffering. It is proposed
that a player must wait till the ball
bounces or until he receives it from an
opponent before he can put his head to
it. This will tend to prevent high pass-
ing and keep the ball on the ground. In
the old days of the game, before the new
offside rules, heading was a prolific
method of scoring from corner kicks.
* * * *
“Canny Lad”: The Empire Soccer
conference in London sees a noble
attempt by the Australian Soccer organi-
sation to chew a large piece off the lug
of the British Association. Among the
modest proposals is a. loan of £2OOO to
buy grounds in all six State capitals and
a cash subsidy. Britain might justly re-
taliate that, if the Australian body had had
the nous to take the risk and the profits
of the last English torn for itself instead
of making a free gift of the latter to a
body of guarantors, there would be no
need to go cadging outside Australia for
the money required.
Nineteenth Hole
“Cotter”: The Canberra open cham-
pionship was dropped by the holder,
Von Nida. Australian open champion
G. Naismith came home with a card o
147 for the 36 holes of stroke, Von Ni a
and V. Richardson running second wi
148. Tanner, who tied with Downs tor
third place with 149, won the amateui
title. The foursomes went to the youthful
Bachli and partner Doddrell, both local
stars.
* * * *
“Divot* Digger”: Golfer Von Nida
seems bent on seeking fresh triumphs
h d . At the end of the Australian
c £ ionship season he will return to
p £ ilippin P es to de f e nd his champion-
, TX .u * u ™
ship. Altei that he g
United States. There is little in
to a golfer of international promise—
and the ex-Queenslander is all that—to
stay in Australia, with its miserable
rewards for professional golfers. Von
Nida will have to face some stiff opposi-
tion from the American professional
players, but he has the right tempera-
ment.
“Sandringham”: Victoria evidently be-
lieves in keeping its professional golfers
well in hand. The V.G.U. has given the
P.G.A. permission to hold its champion-
ship this year in November, instead of
midwinter, as of yore. Last year the
final ended literally in darkness, and
there was a lot of dissatisfaction. The
G.U. has also granted the pros, permis-
sion to charge for admission to cham-
pionship matches.
* * * *
“Wanderer’s”: Bobby Locke has sig-
nalised his entry to the professional
ran j^ s by winning the South African
open title As he had a i ready won this
as an amate u r he can now claim to have
brought off an unusual double. Robert
was erdered j n this year’s British ama-
eur and open events, and will probably
p j a y j n the latter. Perhaps the jingle of
g U j nea wd i now help him to greater
heights
b
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The A.L.T.A.
is not this year to have the Davis Cup
team “trained” before departure. Last
year the team was collected in Sydney


Study for Good Han gar Job
Aircraft Maintenance.
(“C” Ground Engineer’s Licence).
Aero Engine.
(“D” Ground Engineer’s Licence).
W. KINGSFORD SMITH, Principal
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET
COLLEGE OF C/V/L AV/ATION
Dept. 14, 'i£>i>a Georgre Street, *yuney.
FREE SAMPLES SENT.
7
Re-Nu Liquid
Nu-Metal
Just deposit through plug
openings on pistons, turn
engine over a dozen times,
then let run 5 minutes,
expands 25%, reconditions engine
while running, saves costly £lO- £2O rebore,
ends piston slap, excess oil pumping, petrol
waste, rattles, noises, buying expensive parts,
restores compression, top speed, new power,
pep, zip._ Makes cars, trucks, motor-cycles,
farm engines, and all combustion engines run
like new. Guaranteed good for 10,000 miles,
when same results can be repeated; also
guaranteed harmless any part finest engine.
NU-METAL is put up in exact quantity size
tubes for each type of engine. Price, 5/- a
tube for each cylinder. Maximum price, 4,6,
S cylinder, 25/—, with extra 1 FREE tube of
Special Colloidal Nu—Metal for injection througn
oil sump for the main bearings, big ends, etc.
Send for FREE Samples 20 other lines. Agents
required. RE-NU LTD., Op. Richmond Station,
Melbourne, J 4 797. Open late Fridays.
Proved features are improved
in the new 1938 Ford V-8 Trucks
Sound engineering design
plus quality features have
built Ford V-B's reputation
for consistently efficient
truck performance at
lower cost. Recognised as
the quality truck in the
economy field. Ford V-8
had record sales in 1937.
For 1938 all proved quality
features are retained and improved. More than six
years of success and the experience of nearly a
million owners have proved Ford V-8 is the correct
engine for truck use. It develops 170 ft.
lbs. torque over a wide range of road
speeds, gives exceptional economy and
incorporates such features as: Alu-
minium cylinder heads. Engine block
with high steel content, for long life.
Cast alloy steel crankshaft. Floating-
type connecting rod bearings.
In the centriforce clutch plate pressure
is increased as engine speed increases,
eliminating slippage. Diameter is
11 in. and face area 123.7 sq. in.
df
d
This sturdy, well-designed
efficient clutch is typical of
Ford V-B's sound engineer-
ing design.
The new, self - energising
brakes are larger, give
quicker stops with less pedal
pressure. Total braking area
is 488.75 sq. in., diameter of
drums 15| in. Ford heavy duty rear axle is full-
flcating type with straddle-mounted pinion. Rugged
axle housing takes all weight, leaving axle-assembly
free to transmit power with maximum efficiency.
See your Ford Dealer before you decide on any truck.
He will gladly let you make an "on-the-job" test,
with a V-8 Truck to suit
you, with your own load-
ing and driver over your
own routes. Easy pur-
chase terms.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF
AUST. PTY. LTD. (Inc. in Vic.)
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL
FORD DEALER
fd
fd
FORD V-8
Ste
r
TRUCKS
from all over Australia. No doubt the
fattest player lost some weight, but no
team that has gone abroad struck more
physical misfortune.
* * * *
“Butcha”: The All-India tennis
serangs have passed a resolution roundly
objecting to the action of the Inter-
national Federation in throwing out the
motion that amateurs and professionals
should be allowed to meet in open
tournaments. The opposition of Eng-
land and France is blamed. Hind in-
tends to bring up the question every
year in the hope of winning its point at
last. To the dispassionate observer it is
the prominent tennis amateur who is the
greatest obstacle to the open go India
desires.
Miscellaneous
The Australasian Gold Polo Cup
makes a trip across the Tasman ; play-
ing splendidly throughout the series at
Kyeemagh, North Brighton (Sydney),
the Maoriland team, captained by K.
Peake, beat the N.S.W. Town and Coun-
try Whites in the final by 9 goals to 4.
And the losers included two of the Ashton
brothers. The Willsallen Cup final went
to the South Australians, who defeated
the N.S.W. Town and Country Blues by
5 goals to 4.
“Tenakoe”.: The Maoriland polo team
for the Sydney tourney was practically
a national venture. A large hat was
passed round, and the Government was
about the only non-contributor. One or
two private contributions ran into three
figures, and racing clubs came at the col-
lection solidly, Auckland weighing in
with £2OO and Waikato with £lOO.
Players all over the Dominion lent
ponies, and though some of these had
a bad trip across the Tasman they soon
found their land legs. They proved
themselves great little animals.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The Australian cricketers
have cast up in England after a passage
marked by less than the usual amount
of press blatherskite. They open their
trot at Worcester on April 30. The
sauce county did only fairly in 1937, and
badly missed Pataudi and Walters. The
latter is expected to appear regularly dur-
ing the coming year, and Kimpton, the
Melbourne-Oxford batsman-’keeper, will
also be available. After Worcester comes
Oxford Uni., and then Leicester, Cam-
bridge Uni. and Marylebone. By the
time this last match is over we should
have a fair idea of how the tourists will
fare.
* * # *
“Aigburth”: Two famous cricketers of
other days celebrated their 82nd birth-
day in England recently. One was
Walter Wright, of Kent and Notts, who
had the reputation of always being able
to get Billy Murdoch with his left-hand
bowling, just as in later years Horni-
brook was supposed to have the weather
gauge of Macartney. The other was
Bobby Peel, one of the greatest all-
rounders the game has known and per-
haps the best of all slow left-hand
bowlers. Peel was full of yarns of W. G.
Grace, with whom he was a special
favorite. One of them told how when
playing with a Marylebone side at Lord’s
the Old Man stopped the game while he
took Bobby off for a quick one to cele-
brate his—W.G.’s —birthday.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Queensland’s cricket rulers,
who have been trying for years to bolster
up the State’s cricket standard by import-
“ C’mon up, Ma —'ere's a possy!"
ing players from other States and over-
seas, have suffered a change of heart.
They are to propose at the next meeting
of Sheffield States that a player from an-
other State must put in two years in his
new habitat instead of three months
before he can represent it. There is much
to recommend the proposal. It would
make impossible the absurd position pre-
vailing in South Australia, where players
like Bradman, Grimmett, Badcock,
Ward and others are imported, to the
detriment of the local men.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Queensland loses a good
cricketer in Loxton. removed by business
exigencies to Maoriland. Loxton played
first after his return from Cambridge
Uni. with Queensland Uni., and last
season with the Colts. Brisbane-born
and -educated, he went to Cambridge in
1932 and won his blue for athletics,
representing the Light Blues in hurdling.
Though not a regular, he figured off and
on with the Cambridge XI.
Dead at Warwick on
the Darling Downs,
full of years and honor
—he was 95 —W. B.
(“Willy”) Slade. Cricket
never had a more de-
voted follower. Willy
Slade was one of the
founders of the Queens-
land Zingari, which
was admitted to affilia-
tion with the exclusive
English body of that
name, and played with
it for years. He was a
notable bowler in a day
when the Downs was
full of men who had
learned their cricket in
first-class company in
England, and in later
years did much by his
generosity and encour-
agement to keep the
game going.
“Hotham”: Melbourne C.C. is seek-
ing a match between the Australian
Eleven and a Rest of Australia team as
a special celebration of the club’s cen-
tenary year. The Board of Control will
probably click, especially as profits are
to go to charity, but it is to be hoped
that the match will not be allowed to
take on the atmosphere of farce these
affairs invariably do.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Cricket addicts are
much exercised as to whether last year’s
match between Westralia and N.S.W.
should rank as first-class. On that de-
pends whether the claim of Barnes to
have made 1000 runs in first-class cricket
in ’37-38 stands. A Board of Control
ruling says all inter-State matches count
as first-clasp, but the objectors maintain
in this instance that the N.S.W. team was
a second string. When Ponsford made
429 for a Victorian second eleven against
Tassie in 1922 the board classed the game
as first-class. Incidentally, Barnes is out
of action in England—a wrist fracture.
* * * *
“Spike”: Victoria’s Alf Watson, one
of the best hurdlers Australia has pro-
duced, has given the game best at 32.
He shone over the 120 and 440, and was
a first-class performer on the flat as well
as over the 100 and quarter distances.
Watson ran in two Olympiads—Amster-
dam and Berlin—and was in the Aus-
tralian team at the recent Empire Games
in Sydney. He won 23 championships, 18
Victorian, four Australian and one Irish.
For the future he will devote himself to
coaching promising talent in his club,
lvanhoe, with which he began his track
career in 1922.
* $ * »
“Toowong”: Queensland champion
eights went to the Brisbane G.P.S. club,
which beat Leichhardts on the Fitzroy
River at Rockhampton by half a length,
with Maryborough third. The time for
the three miles is given as 15 minutes,
which suggests a fast tide and current
helping the crews along. The win gives
G.P.S. the right to represent Queensland
in the King’s Cup at Melbourne on
May 7.
* * * *
“Connie Agate”: Interest in the
Anglo-Italian palavers was eclipsed in
Britain during Easter week by the 351st
world’s marbles championship, won by
the Copthorne Sharpshooters after the
holders, Tinsley Green, had taken the
knock in a semi-final. One London jour-
nal alleges that the star of the winning
team, E. Wicks, trained his men shooting
at flies lured to the ring by scattered
sugar, with the result that they averaged
75 per cent, of direct hits. On that evi-
dence the Commonwealth Government
might do worse than invite the cham-
pions to Australia for an open go at the
blowfly pest.
* * * *
“Green Chequer”: There has been a
mild argument among British pigeon-
flyers as to the record mileage per hour
of a homer pigeon. The accepted official
record seems to be a shade over 94
m.p.h., or 2768 yards per minute. Any-
one able to supply Australia’s best
authentic figures?


e€* CHILDREN
WELCOME!
Not all hotels welcome children as
their guests. The Victoria, however,
has full facilities for their accomm-
odation, including creche under
charge of trained attendant. “Room
only” tariff: 4/- to 7/6 for singles,
8/- to 16/- for doubles. Write
for illustrated- booklet to Dept. I.N.
VICTORIA
PALACE
21S LIT. COLLINS ST.
(Next Town Hall) MELBOURNE
Alii
•»»!!
in* 1
mis
n»M"!
ft lilt
H+W I Hlffl Fffl
KEEP
QkUou/u
VW..M
'J'ake Golcryst regu-
larly to ensure vig-
orous health. These
golden* Crystals of
health are pleasant
to take and tone Up
the whole system.
FOR RHEUMATISM, NEURITIS , ETC.
THE PERFECT MORNING SALTS
All CHEMISTS 4* . 8“ . 14 .
f
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers- The Union
BRANDAUER-S
P*
m
i
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations.
G BRANDaOEB * CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. KNB
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of
over 3 pounds of waste matter. When the
kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty and difficult. Instead of
being filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy,, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and .Inkles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the same
quick relief they have been giving millions
for mahy years. If backache is bothering
you dtie to tired kidneys, try DOAN'S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“The Last Gangster”
Edward G. Robinson.
Once again Hollywood has taken
Public Enemy No. 1 and built a stretch
of drama around him, but this time it
has done it better than usual. Sydney
Capitol’s current offering is a well-
constructed and soundly-acted melo-
drama with an abundance of “strong”
scenes and a measure of originality in
its treatment.
The faint sound of a machine-gun
while the camera plays on a signboard
almost obliterated by rain is all the
material used to indicate Robinson’s
methods, and remaining gunplay is at
the climax, when a revolver duel of half
a dozen shots is shown by shadows on a
wall.
Much of the story might have been
drawn from actual history. Robinson,'
with paternal passions such as those
credited to Capone, brings from Yurrup
a wife who, with limited knowledge of
English, accepts him as a law-abiding
citizen. He goes up on an income-tax
charge, as did his prototype, and in
Alcatraz receives the same treatment as
that gentleman is purported to be suffer-
ing at the hands of fellow-inmates.
Child is born shortly after parent’s.
internment, wife is enlightened by news-
paper man to whom she is eventually
spliced, and husband remains brooding
behind the bars and calculating just how
much bang-bang-bang there will be
when he is released.
That’s the set-up in a nutshell; and
from there M.-G.-Ivt. have developed a
steadily-intensifying stretch of realism
to a powerful if slightly fictional and
sentimental ending.
Best of an excellent film are its prison
scenes. Convincing, they suggest an
atmosphere of repression which assists
Robinson in building up his portrayal,
and are also the setting for tiptop per-
formances from John Carradine (spiteful
in humorous fashion), Edward S. Brophy
and Grant Mitchell. Robinson, too,
does his best work behind the bars. A
volcanic outburst when wife informs him
that he won’t see his son again is a
masterpiece.
Acting is of a fairly high standard all
round. Robinson is, of course, the
driving force of the film, and, with
plenty of opportunity, he makes the most
of it and turns in his usual top notch
performance. Not far behind is Lionel
Stander, a clever actor with natural apti-
tude for seeming to twist his part by
doing the obvious.
Rose Stradner, a newcomer and quite
an attractive lass, makes a fair job of
a familiar role and suggests she might
do better with less stereotyped material.
Other familiar and competent persons
are Frank Conroy, Sidney Blackmer and
James Stewart (fair enough until make-
up, supposed to add 10 years to his life,
leaves him an overgrown youth with a
moustache).
“Bringing Up Baby”
Cary Grant, Katharine Hepburn.
This Sydney Regent offering is well
up to the standard of the luxurious pews
and generally agreeable surroundings of
that address.
It’s a broader line of American
comedy than the other in which. Grant
la tely figured (“The Awful Truth”). Its
dialogue is as funny, but neither in this
nor in any other respect is it nearly so
subtle ; it depends far more on ridiculous
situations, and it is not above exploiting
the hilarious qualities of fallabout (the
principals together fall over a log, into
a deep waterhole and over nothing in
particular, in addition to which Mr.
Grant slips solo on, among other things,
a dropped olive).
A lot of good clean fun is made out
of Mr. Grant’s damaged top-hat and
about the collapse of the skeleton of a
mastodon, or some such fabulous beast,
Ed. G. Robinson, John Carradine and Lionel Slander in “The Last Gangster,"
at Sydney Capitol.
in the museum, where, when the film
kicks off, Mr. Grant is a youthful pro-
fessor in horn-rims devoting his life to
musty ribs and clavicles.
Into his ken floats Miss Hepburn. It
happens on a golf track where Mr. Grant
is playing a potential donor of dahlahs
for his museum. Miss Hepburn having
played Mr. Grant’s pill, they discuss the
point of ownership till they get to where
the cars are parked, whence Miss Hep-
burn drives off with Mr. Grant hanging
on the running board protesting that it’s
his car she’s taken.
On this note of utter nonsense the
film gets into its stride, and to utter non-
sense it sticks throughout. It’s a work of
art that can be specially commended to
those who have a taste for nonsense —
fun for its own sake, without any mean-
ing, point, purpose or direction what-
ever.
It would take five black-trackers and
a team of police dogs to follow out its
plot. It just keeps on going in whatever
direction the unpredictable wind happens
to be blowing at the moment. There is
something about Miss Hepburn having
.to take Baby to her aunt in the country
and taking Mr. Grant along to help, and
Baby turns out to be a leopard and Aunt
turns out to be the moneybag behind
the chap Mr. Grant was playing at golf ;
but these things don’t matter an iota,
except that they serve to keep the non-
sense running gaily along, dragging Mr.
Grant and Miss Hepburn willy-nilly with
it.
All the way it’s funny ; here and there
it’s side-splitting—as, for instance, when
Mr. Grant steps on the train of Miss
Hepburn’s evening frock and the piece
rips embarrassingly out to the waist, Mr.
Grant thereupon making the best of
things with his top-hat.
Many, no doubt, will not like it as
much as “The Awful Truth” ; nonsense-
lovers will hail it as a classic.
Mr. Grant improves in every film he
figures in ; he is a genuine comedian, de-
pending scarcely at all on any form of
comedy tricks and in no way whatever
on eccentricities. Miss Hepburn does an
excellent job with him; and then, lifting
the comedy up to new peaks at a moment
when it began to look like sagging, there
is Charles Ruggles, a big-game hunter
and all that that designation implies.
“The Return of the Scarlet
Pimpernel”
Barry Barnes, Sophie Stewart.
Main offering at Sydney Embassy, this
makes agreeable light entertainment with-
out threatening to set the town on fire.
It’s the French Revolution according
to the romantic formula of Baroness
Orczy, with Barnes in the unhappy posi-
tion of having to essay the role that a
very good actor, Leslie Howard, made
one of the brightest spots of his career.
Barnes makes a pretty Pimpernel, with
the Stewart equally pretty as his wife,
and in its pretty, artificial way their per-
formance has poise and polish. In that
and in such points of construction as hav-
ing the Pimpernel’s various disguises so
obvious that the audience can pick him
in a mob at once the film has been well
made to suit its most likely public.
A game of cricket of that day’s vintage
is so admirably done that it overshadows
the rest of the film. It represents a touch
of leisured charm and beauty peculiar to
English films.
Big-crowd scenes in Paris, though by
now familiar, are also good, and so is
the fairly generous ration of comedy.
Support acting ranges from fair to awful.
Robespierre and his chief instrument are
passable ; Talleyrand is impossible. There
is an amateurishness about most of the
rest which suggests that English film-
makers must draw heavily on the Little
Theatre Movement for their actors.
Underlying all the froth of romance
and artificiality the film preaches a solid
sermon against dictatorships. Its orgies
of executions might have been lifted
straight from the Soviet.
“The Squeaker”
Edmund Lowe.
Like most thriller films this version
of Edgar Wallace’s yarn at Sydney
Embassy carries the audience along very
nicely on a what’s-going-to~happen-next
lure till the concluding wash-up, when it
duly goes to the pack with a thud.
Lowe is the former Scotland Yard
sleuth who, sacked for going the bottle
too heavily, has his next view of inside
the Yard when he’s taken there as one of
a bunch of suspects, on the strength of
which qualifications his old chief entrusts
him with the job of nabbing the Squeaker,
a notorious fence with the pretty habit
of informing on the blokes from whom
he receives various sorts of stolen
baubles.
In this part of his contract Lowe acts
very well. He makes a naturally convinc-
ing sleuth, and neither he nor the plot
puts any great strain on credulity. But
he has also to carry through a spot of
lurv interest on the side, and in that his
performance is disastrous. His affair
with an extremely chilly heroine is as
cold as that of a couple of castaway
Eskimos, and their final embrace must
rank among the most frozen clinches
ever filmed.
Other bad acting, by supports, lets the
piece down in places, but a comic re-
porter lightens proceedings with a laugh
or two, and, as thrillers go, it can be
rated fair entertainment.
Ice Show .
Judged by the crowd that rolled up
last week when the Glaciarium opened
for the winter season, Sydney appears to
be taking to the Henie pastime with
increasing enthusiasm.
Apart from the fun of skimming about
in person, exhibitions of clinking ice-
work and bevies of lissom young
charmers displaying grace and talent of
a high order are entertainment that
would be hard to find anywhere except
in shadow on the screen.
The management has done its bit by
increasing accommodation for the bruised
and frostbitten and for those who
delight in watching such treatment being
meted out —to a forest of comfortable
pews, and, with fir-trees sprouting all
over the place, a chalet tucked away at
one end and a brace of stags’ heads


ENDURA
CONKLIN ENDURA PENS
AND PENCILS
are
Colour Combinations of
unique artistic character in the
modern modes. Smooth, easy-
writing quality. Day by day
dependability. All future re-
quirements provided by the
famous Conklin Endura uncon-
ditional and perpetual service
guarantee.
A pen for any time . . .
... a pen for all time
Imperishable beauty, unending
utility. The Gift of exquisite
propriety, Conklin Endura
Pen and Pencil Sets are avail-
able in beautiful Presentation
Cases, affording ultra-modern
distinction and style to the Set
which is bestowed as a Gift.
Pens are priced at 30/- and
40/-, with Pencils to match
25/-. Complete Sets in
Presentation Case 55/-
and 65/-.
Use Conklin Fountain Pen
Ink the best for every
Pen 4oz. bottles in all
colours, I/- per bottle.
From all Stationers, Jewel-
lers and Departmental
Stores.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MAKING SEMI-
FINISHED OR FINISHED STEEL
PRODUCTS.
THE P r °P net or of Commonwealth Patent No
491/31 is prepared to negotiate for the sale of
its rights in the above, or for the granting
or a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
& Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN PISTON RING.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No
14j 14/33 is prepared to negotiate for the sale of
its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
& Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN CLASPS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No
11194/33 is prepared to negotiate for the sale of
its rights in the above, or for the granting
or a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
& Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
HAND OPERATED POSTAL MACHINE.
P, r ? F)rletor of Commonwealth Patent No
17460/34 is prepared to negotiate for the sale of
Its n B. hts m the above, or for the grantin'-
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia
p art^ U }L rS , obtainable from Griffith, Hassei
& Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Q
begins at
v\
rrr>
mm
r
*y
ms
m
P
EM
WryJi&X
Sill ill
V
HZ32
a
((ci
mum
EB
r
£k **tts
As you pass
from City to
City the history
of
Europe’s most interesting country, is revealed. The world’s
finest art treasures await your inspection, and traditional
events are re-enacted for your entertainment. Visit the
Bi-millenary Augustus Exhibition in Rome (open until Sep-
temper 23) come and see life as exemplified two thousand
years ago.
Special TOURIST Rate of Exchange.
HOTEL COUPONS at 5/- to 18/- (sterling) a day
absolutely inclusive.
Big rebates in the price of petrol.
30% to 70% REDUCTION in RAILWAY FARES.
For information and descriptive booklets apply to:
E.N.1.T., §8 Margaret St., Sydney,
or ANY TRAVEL AGENCY.
keeping an eye on everything, the place
looks like a chunk of Switzerland.
Other additions include a general
brightening up, a couple of modern
refreshment bars, and skates as comfort-
able as bedroom slippers.
Melbourne Lunch-hour
Concert.
Though City Fathers and A.B.C. con-
spired to keep the public in the dark as
to the programme to be submitted at
the free midday concert at Melbourne
Town Hall last week, lunch-time enthu-
siasts rolled up in droves. There was no-
thing much to conceal; items were chosen
from the customary repertoire of the
A.B.C. Orchestra and included such
standard favorites as “The Bartered
Bride” of Smetana, Debussy’s “L’Apres
Midi” and the well-tried “Sylvia” ballet
of Delibes.
The dapper Joseph Post, who gets more
of the melody and less of the atmo-
sphere out of the Debussy item than
most other conductors, was momentarily
credited by members of the audience
with introducing an effect that Debussy
hadn’t thought of, but which seemed re-
markably appropriate to the woodland
tone-picture that the faun’s giddy after-
noon purports to be. This was the chirp-
ing of a bird which began in the middle
of the opus and continued insistently to
the end. When the orchestra subsided
into silence, however, the whistling con-
tinued, and critics who had unsheathed
their pencils to record their opinion of
this musical outrage were constrained to
put them away, jand speculate fruitlessly
on just where the effect did come from.
Although the audience was requested
not to ask for encores, it could not con-
tain its enthusiasm when Alfred Luizzi,
somewhat smothered in places by the in-
strumental accompaniment, essayed the
prologue to “Pagliacci.” He responded
with the “Toreador Song” from “Car-
men.”
The “Sylvia” ballet, in which Post
appeared to surpass himself as a con-
ductor, concluded the fixture and left the
crowd with a bare two minutes to get
back to their avocations.
William Ricketts — Potter.
Ricketts lives in Victoria. He models
in clay, and each of his pieces embodies
some Australian aboriginal motif and
generally, as well, illustrates some Binghi
fairy-tale. Some of his pottery is on
show at Anthony Horderns’ art gallery
in Sydney.
At which plain statement the average
art lover, unacquainted with Ricketts’s
work, will sniff, faintly but sadly.
Attempts to make abo. art decorative in
the modern sense are just depressing.
And those abo. myths are too weirdly
fantastic to lend themselves to art pur-
poses, bowdlerise them as you will.
But the objector reckons without his
Ricketts. Here’s an artist who picks out
and reveals the strong, the beautiful, the
apt in Bmghi’s million-year-old conven-
tions of line and form. There isn’t room
here for an archeological exegesis, so the
origins of Ricketts’s basic forms can’t
be expatiated on. But they satisfy, and
they are admirably in keeping with the
very beautiful embellishments with which
Ricketts garnishes them.
Ricketts, almost alone among Austra-
lian artists and craftsmen, has a gift
for miniature modelling. Some of his
tiny groups of figures are reminiscent of
the patience of Indian and Chinese ivory-
carvers. This work of his is unique.
Self-portrait, by William Ricketts, at
Anthony Horderns’ art gallery.
Beautiful at first sight, it seems capable
of standing almost microscopical exami-
nation. The texture of bark, of stone
chipped by stone, of abo. wood carving
is wonderfully reproduced.
These pieces are mostly in kilned but
unglazed clay, colored sparingly or lav-
ishly as the design requires. This com-
mentator’s only quarrel with them is that
the material is not worthy of the work.
They should be done in ivory or marble.
But then, of course, they would lose their
plastic charm.
Anyway it seems a pity that these ex-
quisite pieces, each an original, and sold
for a few guineas, should not be given a
wider sphere by reproduction. The great
English pottery firms that scour the world
for new ideas and new designs should
send their scouts out to capture Ricketts.
Sydney Eisteddfod.
The musical competitions with the
Welsh name have caught on in N. S.
Wales, and this year’s Eisteddfod in Syd-
ney brought forth a remarkable number
of competitors.
On Saturday night, at the Town Hall,
the winners showed their paces—Hurl-
stone Choral Society’s choir in an old
English madrigal ; Mildred Walker (a
glorious voice this) in an excerpt from
“Aida” ; the runner-up in this section,
Marie Ryan, in the Shadow Song from
“Dinorah.” Neville Be.vis, winner of
men’s operatic aria, gave the “Credo”
irom Verdi’s ‘'Otello” in a voice of re-
markable volume and good timbre. Val
Sullivan, this year’s champion pianist,
played Brahms’s E Flat Rhapsody with
tons of courage.
Also there were dancing and elocution,
and roars of applause when singing-
judge Stanley Oliver said that the choirs
he had heard needed only 1 p.c. more
of technique to be super-choirs.
Air Display.
Excitement reached fever-pitch at
Blacktown when train which had left
Sydney at 1.30 p.m. for the R.A.A.F. air
display at Richmond stopped for a quick
one. Interest centred on three tree-
stumps rooted in the platform. Sacred
bo trees? Or were they erected by the
Dumb Friends’ Association as scratching
posts for the local inhabitants?
After 20 minutes’ speculation train
moved on, and the three wise men who
had crossed over to the pretty-looking
pub sprinted after it, and caught it easily.
At the next stop the humorist with the
mouth-organ played “The Merry-go-
round Broke Down.”
Made Windsor cemetery at 4.30, having
come fully 35 miles in three hours.
Parked opposite cemetery for half an
hour ; moved sedately backwards for two
chains ; parked there for five minutes and
then returned to cemetery.
At Windsor station, according to one
of the Sunday papers, thousands of angry
passengers, raging at the traffic jamb
which had caught the railway people
napping, left the. train and tramped
across country to the aerodrome, arriv-
ing, patrioticaly, in time for “God Save
the King.” Thousands more, including
present hiker, strode manfully to the
oasis on the corner a couple of chains
away.
Regret at not having seen what was
doubtless an exciting display was some-
what tempered by the thought that it was
really an excellent sesquicentenary ges-
ture for the Railways Department to put
Stephenson’s Rocket on the Richmond
run. Or was it Watt’s kettle?


BOWRAL
MAGNIFICENT RESIDENCE standing on an ISLAND BLOCK of 31$
acres.
The Residence is of brick, having SPACIOUS VERANDAHS, comprising about 10 ROOMS
and MAIDS’ ACCOMMODATION, well-equipped BILLIARD ROOM, all other usual offices.
HOT WATER SERVICE. SEPTIC SEWERAGE. ELECTRICITY. GARDENER’S COTTAGE
of 3 rooms and offices at the MAIN ENTRANCE. OUTBUILDINGS include STABLING,
BARNS, TOOLSHEDS, GARAGES, etc. The whole is in first-class order; a well-kept GARDEN
surrounds the house. There are also VEGETABLE GARDEN and large ORCHARD. Ihe
balance of the land is admirably suitable for grazing purposes.
For full particulars, price, apply
RAINE & HORNE, LTD., 70 Pitt Street. 86644.
Personal and Missing Friends.
MILLS—WouId anyone knowing the where-
abouts of Adelaide M. A. Mills, daughter of
Charles C. Mills, deceased, late of Kent Town
(Southt Australia), communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Adelaide?
MAURICE WELDON, Deceased.
WILL WALTER WELDON, the son of
Maurice and Emily Weldon, late of Eccles-
field in the County of York, England, kindly
communicate with the undersigned?
WAKE, SMITH and FIELDING,
Solicitors,
11 Meetinghouse Lane,
Sheffield 1, England.
iue Kicnartison Chain Hotel
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spence* Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Kailway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There is nothing more touching than
the dawn service beside the Cenotaph.
As the years go by it strikes deeper
root in the country’s heart' and mind.
Here year after year, at this Anzac Day
service, are gathered the band of old
faithfuls. As time has gone on a band
of young faithfuls has grown up to
accompany many of them. These, so
companioned, are the most fortunate.
How lonely, how bereft, stand many an
elderly man and woman!
In this year’s cold dawn, such loneli-
ness was glimpsed among the thousands
who stood in the grey, shadowy deeps
of Martin-place, communing with their
dead. They hardly noticed, so in-
ward their gaze, when official im-
port'ants arrived. When the returned
soldiers (5000 or so of them), led
by Lord Wakehurst, had taken their
places, and the first words of the service
broke the tense silence, the crowds stirred
from their private into public prayer.
Lips cold with vigil warmed with emo-
tion. The final “We will remember
them” came a promise as triumphant as
a bugle call.
Soldiers of Maoriland had arrived on
Saturday in the Maunganqi and the
Monowai. Their first call was on the
Cenotaph, and here was set an arresting
flowerpiece—the outline of the North and
South Islands worked thickly in red
poppies on a sea-blue background. In the
procession, too, were hundreds of Vic-
torians and 32 V.Cs., 10 from N.S.W.,
the other 22 from sister-States.
At the head marched Lord Wake-
hurst ; and on his right was Major-
General Charles Rosenthal, specially
brought by the Malaita from his Admin-
istratorship on Norfolk Island. Nine
other ex-service men of Norfolk Island
had made the journey with him. At the
left of the Governor was Major-General
Andrew Russell, commanding officer of
the Enzed contingent. Altogether there
were 50,000 returned soldiers in the pro-
cession—one grew dizzy trying to reckon
as they swung past on the route from
Macquarie-street to the Cenotaph, and
then on to the service in the Domain, how
much hero-power they must represent.
The peaceful army, 12 abreast, took
nearly two and three-quarter hours to
pass. Medals and decorations shone;
the Cenotaph blazed with flowers; the
streets were thronged, and echoed to
cheers and handclaps as the once leaf-
brown army stepped along.
Prosperity is beginning to smile once
more upon the Diggers. They looked a
much-better-turned-out procession than
that of two or three years back. There’s
a swing about these Anzac shoulders that
is still enviable. But they were not all
stalwarts, these veterans. There were
many disabled in the march. Now and
again a blinded man stepped along with
his A.I.F. cobbers. Here and there a
small boy walked, sometimes with father,
sometimes with only dad’s medals.
One proud baby did the march on
father’s shoulder. At the Cenotaph, which
they passed in lines of six, the men
walked between Girl Guides on the Post
Office side and Boy Scouts on the
opposite. The service in the Domain con-
cluded the day’s ceremonies. Then came
a night of singsongs and merriment in the
streets, and the military tattoo —splen-
didly done by all hands.
All highways and skyways led to the
air pageant at Richmond on Saturday.
Literally thousands of cars took the road
from Sydney. They started off in a
blithe bustle, but speed and spirits were
somewhat quenched before they reached
the flying fields. It took some people
three hours or so to make the journey,
and of the train trip the less said the
better. But for those permitted to see
it the spectacle was well worth any
discomfort. Here, against a blue and
cloudless sky, were Seagulls, Moths,
Ansons, Avros and Demons roaring
through the air in spearhead and parallel
(something different this) formation.
Closely flying bombers showed how de-
struction rains from the air when they
demonstrated on a factory, and left it in
ruins. Lord Huntingfield motored out to
this display and was received by Group-
Captain and Mrs. de la Rue. There was
tea for specials in a marquee. Minister
for Defence Thorby took his wife and
daughters.
Dogs, it would seem, are as necessary
at a polo match as ponies. Apparently
women onlookers wake up in the morn-
ing saying “My word, it’s polo to-day ;
we’ll give the dogs a good run.” Opening
day of the Gold Cup tournament was
no exception, and out at Kyeemagh dogs
of many breeds grinned happily and
gambolled frenziedly. Anyway, the sun
shone, the grass was green, inter-State
visitors were there in contingents, and
there was a “merry let us meet” air about
the whole bright scene. Picnic lunches
and teas gave the Australian touch, but
the Tony Horderns, who had guests from
Vic. and S. Aus., spread their lunch in
a marquee. Mrs. Hordern mixed Patou
pink and navy with good effect. The
pink was in her frock, the navy in gloves,
shoes and handbag.
Singer Lawrence Tibbett, star of opera,
movie, concert and radio, stepped off the
Mariposa feeling “just grand” after his
first vacation in years. He is accom-
panied in his Australian journey by his
graceful, Irish-eyed wife, shown in this
photograph. Instead of being photo-
graphed in screen plays, he took color
films of the lovely islands visited.
Lawrence was the first established opera
favorite to make a musical picture —“The
Rogue Song.” He is mostly called on to
portray the devoted lover, and would like,
for a change, to be a rover or a rollick-
ing buccaneer. Mrs. Tibbett is content
to be the wife of a great singer. She is
a home-maker by instinct. Her great
joy is to be down on the farm which she
and Lawrence have just bought.
In a week that was just a welter of
functions and frivolities the Legacy Ball
more than held its own. To begin with
Lord and Lady Huntingfield and Lord
and Lady Wakehurst made a vice-regal
foursome, and the two ladies honored
the Legatees by wearing lovely clothes.
Lady Huntingfield’s bronze lame shone
under a coat of gold and white satin
brocade; and Lady Wakehurst’s slim-
ness was sheathed in hyacinth-pink and
silver cloque. With it she wore a ground-
length cape of black velvet. The Troca-
dero was crowded. There were 10 smiling
debs. Mrs. Sinclair, wife of Legacy’s
president, allied daffodil golds and green
in her frocking. Mayor Nock and his
wife were among the dancers. Mrs. Reg.
Mowatt and Mrs. C. R. McKerihan were
two attractively frocked. Ivory lace was
worn by Mrs. Hamilton-Lewis, and a
shimmering satin by Mrs. Leon Lyons.
Polo revelled in the best weather it
has known for years. Kyeemagh on
Saturday was a picture, with its pines
dark between the blue of the sky and
the green of the grass. The Botany Bay
fields have never seen more spirited play
than that of the Maorilanders on their
swiftly-wheeling small Not that
our own Curtis Skenes, Bragg, Horsley
and Ashtons were ever out of the scene.
Still the silver fern will take the gold cup
across to Enzed. Lady Huntingfield pre-
sented it, and the handing over was ac-
companied by the usual honors. There
was just enough breeze to make woolly
suits and topcoats the proper wear. The
Tony Horderns were out to see the last of
the play; so were Mrs. Frank Bragg,
Ashtons and all the well-knowns whose
names are associated with the game. One
of the regulars among the spectators was
Mrs. Fitz Searight, who was accom-
panied by Miss Veitch.
This year the Polo Tea, which usually
happens at Elizabeth Bay House, was
spread at Nancy Jobson’s stronghold,
Hopewood House. The first two things
which smacked you in the eye were the
beauty of a harbor that shone in the
westering sun like silver and the charm
of Jessie McMaster and Susan Spencer
receiving the guests. Hostess-ship fits
these two like a glove. There were pale-
gold tones in Susan’s tweeds and tiny
hat; Jessie’s boucle suit ran to a deep
hyacinth pink. Among early arrivals
were Mrs. Reg Stafford, Mrs. C. L.
Jones and the Jordan lady, all together.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly rustled in ruched black
taffeta; a nice touch on Barbara Knox’s
black dress was the bunch of Irish
Elegance roses.
Atmosphere was given by players who
came on from Kyeemagh wearing their
polo kit, and by two gallant ponies, one
formed from a cucumber, the other from
a marrow that frisked among the baskets
of carrots, cauliflowers and suchlike
vegetables that decorated the buffet.
There were 84 hostesses, there was an
orchestra and there was dancing. The
400 guests began to arrive at half-past
four, and were still coming towards six
o’clock. Kathleen Robinson, straight
from triumphs as an actor-manager in
London, and facing London again in
three weeks’ time, was talking to the
Bertie Kellys. Mrs. George Osborne, of
Tarcutta, Mrs. Lennox Bode and Mrs.
Roy Buckland (red birds embroidered
on her black frock) were among the
smart.
Valerie Ball will appear as Kit Abbott,
the pretty, discontented wife, in “Men
Without Wives.” How Kit learns to see
the light and determines to stand by her
husband is told in Mrs. Drake-Brock-
man’s 150th Celebrations prize play.
The Players’ Club opens in this three-
acter on Saturday.
Sport held the stage all last week.
Races, polo, hockey and ice-skating fol-
lowed one another with eye-blinking
rapidity. The American hockey girls
proved favorites from the day of their
arrival, when they motored up to the
Easter camp at Richmond and exchanged
blazers with the Sydney girls. Lady
Wakehurst gave them a morning recep-
tion. There was tea on the terrace, the
freedom of the garden and so on. The
American Society spread a lunch at
Usher’s—a koala and a kangaroo on the
menus. The girls sang their song. It
is all to the glory of their mascot, Donald
Duck. Donald is dressed as a cowboy
and has two guns in his belt. He’s known
among the girls as “Two-gun D.D.”
Mayoress Nock gave an early-afternoon
reception for them.
The N.S.W. Hockey Association wel-
comed the visiting players at a reception
in the Pickwick Club. The rooms were
massed with chrysanthemums in red,
yellow and white, and president Dr.
Marie Hamilton, secretary Mrs. F. J.
Davy and treasurer Dorothy Friend re-
ceived. Each American girl flew a white
satin name-tag. They are easy to talk
10, and have found Sydney one beauty
after another. They are still babbling
of the drive down from Castlereagh by
moonlight. The Pickwick party had, m
addition to hockey players, groups ot
hostesses who are billeting or entertain-
ing the girls from U.S.A.
The clerk of the weather put a nip and
a spatter of rain into last week’s racing
just to bring out in full woman’s winter
glories. And did the women leap at the
chance? What a parade of new furs, of
conical, comical and triangular bits of
velour, felt and velvet! Both Admiralty
House and Government House ardently
followed the races this merry Easter-
tide, and each day the ladies of
the party had something different and
well worth regarding in the way of dress
goods. Lady Huntingfield’s black top-
coat was smart with appliqued black
velvet revers. Lady Wakehurst’s grey
suit had silver fox furs and a peaked
black velvet hat for partners. Likeable
were the gold blouse and navy suit worn
by Hon. Henrietta Loder. Pamela Arm-
strong, of Melbourne, made appeal in a
rust outfit with a high beret to finish.
Real money was represented by the
grey fox that, not content to serve as
collar, ran all the way down the front
of Mrs. James Burns’s blue coat. Miss
Kate Egan and Mrs. Leon Lyons wore
furs not to be despised, and into the pic-
ture stepped Mrs. Reg Stafford’s cape of
blue fox. From Melbourne came the
president of the V.R.C., Alan Currie, and
his lady. Navy tailorings and blue fox
helped her to pick winners. The Claude
Reading lady was among the richly-
furred, and Persian lamb collared Mrs.
Dundas Allen’s black suit. One of the
week’s prettiest was Mrs. Herbert Doug-
lass, who took the eye in an unusual
caped frock in two tohes of blue. Rose-
mary Budge was a young punter. June
Robinson’s yellow felt hat was among
the attractive. The Geoff and James
Ashtons were there, and Mrs. Franc
Falkiner was among the noted. So was
the wife of baritone Lawrence Tibbett,
smiling and unaffected.
Probably Donald Duck, the American
hockey girls’ mascot, isn’t acclimatised.
Because at University Oval N.S.W. won
the'first match 6-0. Everybody praised
the sun-tan of the visitors’ legs. They
all matched to a turn, and they were
all bare to just above the ankles,
where scarlet socks blazed bravely.
Manager Martha Gable umpired, and
wore brown mesh stockings above her
hibiscus-red tennis socks. Donald Duck
sat, a pensive red, yellow and blue figure,
at the feet of U.S.A. Consul-General
Wilson and pretty Betty Fehr. Her navy-
blue trigness had a smart rouleau of red.
white and blue at the waist and a dash of
red and white at the neckline —a subtle
compliment to the Empire.
Minister for Education Drummond
and president of the American Society
Gledhill spent a happy afternoon among
the girls. Mrs. Gledhill and Mrs. Drum-
mond brought attractive sports wear to
the match. Mrs. F. J. Davy struck a
dryad note with her woodland browns
and greens; under her arm was thrust
a megaphone. President of N.S.W.
Women’s Assoc. Dr. Marie Hamilton won
commendation for her lagoon-blue hat.
A pretty moment at the Early
Colonists’ Ball was the dancing of the
Sir Roger de Coverley. All the dancers
were in the fashions that prevailed in
the days of Phillip, Burke and Mac-
quarie. The Trocadero band gave just
the right amount of decorous dash to
the old tunes. John Gould, who was
there with Mrs. John, was an impromptu
master of ceremonies for this event.
Applauding the pretty scene from the
committee table were Miss Kate Egan,
Mrs. Walter Burfitt, pretty Dorothy
Porter and the Mayoral Nocks, who had
good-looking Frank Crane for aide.
There was a large official party, and 10
debs, made their curtsies. The Troca-
dero supplied the background.


CHEMIST tells how to
save money by making your
own family remedy for
COUGHS—COLDS
. m
CATARRH
CROUP BRONCHITIS
SORE THROATS & ’FLU
■
m
COSTS 21- —SA VES £’s.
The use of this recipe gives you, for the cost of one, the equal in quantity of eight
ordinary-sized bottles of the best ready-made-up remedies for chest, nose and
throat aliments, the goodness of which is proved by the fact that it has been the
favourite family remedy for such ailments in the majority of Australian homes for
over twenty years.
In a jug make a syrup compound of four tablespoonfuls of sugar,
three tablespoonfuls of treacle or honey, one large breakfastcupful of
warm water. When the syrup is COLD (not before) pour it into a
large clean bottle, and add ONE bottle of concentrated HEENZO
(costs 2/- at any chemist or store). This wonderful money-saving
chest, nose and throat remedy is then ready for the immediate use
of all members of your family.
k
CATARRH
also COLDS in HEAD
Put a few drops of made-up
HEENZO in each nostril
night and morning.
HOW TO USE
HEENZO
IN TREATMENT OF
COUGHS—COLDS
Take HEENZO every
few hours until cured.
Same treatment as coughs.
If taken at first sign cold
will quickly vanish.
FOR ALL
CHEST AILMENTS
Take HEENZO internally.
CROUP
Four doses at HEENZO daily, also
take when cough is distressing.
BRONCHITIS
Take night and morning and
when cough is distressing.
Ask for HEENZO
Refuse all substitutes
WHOOPING COUGH
Call Doctor immediately for injections. Ease the
cough with made-up HEENZO.
INFLUENZA
Go straight to bed. Take half teaspoonful of
concentrated HEENZO in wineglass of hot
water every four hours. Ease cough with
made-up HEENZO. Keep bowels open.
df
SORE THROATS
Use made-up HEENZO as
a gargle for instant relief.
All leading Chemists
and Stores in Australia
sell
HEENZO
\HEENZO
should be used in every home & offic


IMPRESSIVE
MORE
PERSONAL
my
&
m
4°
&
«
m-m
| /'A
a
*
The world remembers Mothers’ love
and devotion and has set apart a
day in their honour.
You. too, will not forget...but how
will you send that personal greeting?
Wherever you may be. Mother is
but a few minutes away . . . by
Telegram.
New Telegram Stationery of attrac-
tive colour and design is available
without additional charge.
T E LEG R AM
ZEI
7,
Rouse your liver with the pill of the
Banish Constipation. Headaches, Bad Breath, •
Restore that youthful appearance and vigor with the
pill without the pain. Sold at all chemists, I/O
40, 3/6 for 120 pills. Send Cd. in stamps for sample
of 12 pills, post free, to convince yourself. box
1182HH, G.P.0., Sydneyc
Melbourne
Chatter
Melbourne’s Anzac Day began with
a dawn service at the Shrine of Remem-
brance, attended by 5000 Diggers and
by many women. The League's idea had
been to make the ceremony a “men only”
affair. The morning, from 10 o’clock
onwards, was devoted to the placing of
wreaths on the steps of the Shrine by
official parties. In the afternoon there
was the impressive march of returned
men to the Shrine, 18,000 participating,
headed by Major-General Gellibrand.
The service at the Shrine was undenomi-
national. The day was a close holiday in
Melbourne ; hotels closed all day ; petrol
sales were prohibited, and trams and
suburban trains ran on abbreviated time-
tables.
The Scientific Exhibition held last week
at Earl’s Court was a great success, for
the general public likes to see the wheels
go round in a pictorial demonstration of
the mysteries of physics and chemistry.
There were model kitchens with hand-
some stoves and folded-into-the-wall
ironing-boards. Also part of the domes-
tic picture was Binnie Hale, who in the
continuous movie show sang propaganda
about her cup of tea, and who looked,
in spite of her cap and apron, a pretty
chirpy tweeny. In other parts of the
building were girls working machinery to
produce pills, golf balls, etc. They
appeared healthy enough, but the
machines were deafening and their jobs
were not unlike Charlie Chaplin’s in
“Modern Times.” To the casual ob-
server it seemed that there’s a lot to be
said for domestic service in spite of the
young workers’ preference for factories.
Among other exhibits were radio-
telegraph typewriters and polite young
men who explained how honest is an
automatic telephone ; how it can’t pos-
sibly register calls that aren't made. A
corner devoted to a well-known make of
gin and its subsidiary nips of good cheer
was enlivened by a dummy gentleman in
a dressing-gown spending a quiet even-
ing at home with his drink and his
■ assorted library containing Gilrey’s Pre-
vention of Disease, Tennyson’s Poems,
Night Life in London and Paris, Past
and Present and Viscount Esher’s Influ-
ence of King Edward and Other Essays.
A mixed bag, for the assimilation of
which more than one gin might be
needed.
Snippety raincoats are on view, in
texture and design as far removed from
the past era of grim mackintoshes with
bag-of-chaff waistlines as the newest
rainboots differ from galoshes (meaning
the complete article, heel and all). Some
silk raincoats will fold up into compacts
for. one’s handbag ; others are flannel-
lined for warmth. Their patterning is
of gay little men carousing with golf
clubs, polar bears posing on icebergs or
just the usual flowers that bloom in the
spring. Some of these rain-protective
garments, instead of being overall long
coats, are two-piece coats and skirts, the
tunic tops belted and buttoned in Nor-
folk fashion. These useful additions to
the wardrobe mean that their owners
can go abroad with light hearts and their
newest clothes in all weathers.
Who wouldn’t be a child again, just to
play in the new nurseries at Flinders-
street railway station? Hygienically and
aesthetically they are perfect. Good ven-
tilation and heating and diffused light-
ing are features throughout the new
rooms, enlarged and reopened last week
after being closed for several months of
the paralysis epidemic. There are dor-
mitories containing 47 pale-blue cots
spread with fresh white linen and steril-
ised coverlets ; there’s a mothers’ room
with chintz-screened cubicles, scales and
murals all about bonnie-baby-building
foods. An open-air playground is
attached to the very large playroom with
its insulated roof, movable shutters for
winter days, collection of toys on and
off wheels, aviaries and a goldfish
aquarium built into one wall.
In the Eve Ray photograph is last
Tuesday afternoon’s bride, Rosemary
Downes, now Mrs. Jim Campbell, who
is the daughter of Major-General and
Mrs. Rupert Downes. Among recent
parties in honor of the young bride was
a cocktail gathering given by one of
the ’maids, Rosemary Wright, at her
family’s home, Coomaroo, in Albany-
road. After the honeymoon the newly-
married couple will settle with their
mahogany furniture in a flat in Sargood-
strcct, Toorak.
The Vic. railway nurseries are not only
the finest in Australia and the Southern
Hemisphere, but Mr. Clapp and Sister
Northcote think they’re in the running for
the best in the world —and they ought
to know, even allowing for pride of pos-
session. Sister Northcote, who had a
trip to her native Scotland a year ago,
saw the newest American nurseries on
her way home, and, although the equip-
ment was as fine, she thought that none
was as aesthetically planned as those of
the V.R. Sister Northcote pooled her
experience with architects and plumbers,
who pored over several designs and in-
ventions, which included a whirlaround
coat-hanger which contains 126 num-
bered pegs, but takes up a minimum
amount of space. The washroom, too,
with “Three Bears basins” (each of a dif-
ferent height) met with her approval, and
the portholes in the seascape murals of
the dormitories were her idea. The
nurse can see through them if all is well
without disturbing the small sleepers
behind the sound-proof walls, which cut
out, practically, all the din of Prince's
Bridge. Six mothercraft nurses are on
the staff with Sister Northcote. Since its
inception in 1933 55,000 children have
been admitted as casuals or regulars to
the nursery’s attendance rolls.
A feature of the new nurseries is the
murals, a joy to the mature eye, a pretty
good kick for the young folk running
about and something pleasant for the
youngest orbs of all to stare at and
translate afterwards into aesthetic taste—
for the psychologists assure us that
babies notice a lot more than we give
them credit for. These murals were
designed in the office of Stephenson and
Turner with the assistance of Reg Rowed,
who afterwards climbed the step-
ladders for their full-size execution in
paint. There are goblins, gnomes and
fairies, and in the high-ceilinged entrance
hall is a coconut grove with monkeys
wearing glasses, smoking pipes or throw-
ing nuts, a sophisticated greyhound in a
kilt and an elephant life-size, but (so
that he won’t be too life-like) with a
ribbon bow on his trunk and a jockey-
size hare upon his back.
“Stripping, trimming, grooming, sham-
pooing, minor doggy ailments —in fact,
anything for your dog.” Thus Lydia
Drexler offers home care for pets. Lydia
(whose photograph is by Broothorn)
learnt at the Winlaton and Hill kennels
and at the Animal Welfare League’s
establishment how to groom and pre-
pare dogs for shows, how to give after-
care to what she calls “minor doggy
ailments,” and the way to be kind but
firm with fractious animals. She also
had useful experience in summing up a
dog’s character and psychoanalysing his
temperament. Lydia left school a year
ago, is fond of tennis and riding and of
looking after her own dog, which she’d
like to be an Airedale but, because she
and her mother live in a flat, is only a
miniature porh.
Ruyton, 60 years a school for young
ladies, is preparing for its diamond jubi-
lee. Ruyton was founded in 1878 in
Henty House, Kew, and is still going
strong in the same building with several
modern additions, the newest including
science labs, and domestic science
kitchen. The jubilee celebrations com-
mittee, of which Mrs. W. S. Kent Hughes
is president, Miss D. Armstrong and
Mrs. A. Gunn vice-presidents, and
Gwynyth Wickham, Mrs. L. S. Di Gilio
and Mrs. T. W. Gunnerson secretaries,
is proceeding with plans for providing a
library and crafts room. At Ruyton
there are 70 “grandchildren,” and over
1200 names are on the old girls’ rolls.
The jubilee celebrations will take place
in the first week in May, and include a
church service at Holy Trinity, a garden
party, a sports day and a dinner, at
which the guest of honor will be Miss
Hilda Daniell, who has been “head” for
25 years.
Old girls from two public schools have
been meeting lately for official business
in connection with their Alma Maters.
The Old Grammarians’ Society (from C.
of E. Girls 4 Grammar) has abolished the
war scholarship in favor of what s to be
known as the Gilman Jones scholarship,
in honor of Miss Gilman Jones, who is
soon to retire from the position of head-
mistress. The new bursary will be
awarded to transfer a successful student
from the school to the University or
from the prep, to the senior school, or
may go to the daughter of an Old Gram-
marian in the school.
“Dawn Was Theirs,” a first production
in Australia, is well worth seeing this
week at the Little Theatre. It’s a thought-
ful play by Peggy Barwell and Nigel Mor-
land, a pair who sound young, whose
theme is the “sins of the fathers,” and
.whose underlying idea is that intolerance
is the most cruel influence in the world.
Bob Bennett’s picture of the country
gentleman Sir George Harbour is one of
the cleverest pieces of work he’s done.
Murielle Hearne’s portrayal of his sis-
ter Clare is smooth and well sustained.
Excellent also is H. N. Gregory as Dibbs,
the margarine manufacturer. As Mara-
day, the daughter, Gwen Stewart had a
long and difficult role to learn. It was
her first part, arid it shouldn’t be her last.
Wendy Outhwaite, who sailed off
abroad in search of adventure some 13
months ago, has kept her flag flying suc-
cessfully. In France Wendy did some art
study. She took up dress-designing in
London, and is now working for Peter
Russell’s. Several mannequins wearing
her creations swooped and swayed over
the ankle-sweeping carpets at that firm’s
last summer parade. But the excitement
was too much for Wendy; she didn’t
attend the show but had to go to bed
instead, having come out in a nervous
rash, brought on by thinking about the
momentous occasion.
Raymond O’Connell, whose concert
with associate artists Strella Wilson and
Horace Stevens will take place in the
Town Hall to-night (28th), is a lad of 16
whose musical talent is so outstanding
that he is being sent abroad in July to
study at the Royal College of Music.
Raymond, who is an unassuming lad, is
at school at St. Kevin’s, Toorak. Though
ambitious to become a concert pianist
he hasn’t a one-track mind, for he sel-
dom has more than one lesson a week
from his piano teacher, Ada Freeman.
He passed “leaving” with honors at the
age of 14, is a promising mathematician,
likes French and German, and is even
more interested in doing historical re-
search. He has a good sense of humor,
plays games, and at present entertains a
passion for the movies..
Only relatives and very special friends
were invited to the marriage of Joan
Stewart and Bill Bailey, which took place
in Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Stewart’s home
in Bourke-road. But a large number
of guests assembled afterwards at the
Windsor for a dinner-dance, where the
bridal party arrived to find their table
an all-white picture, with position of
honor given to the three-tiered cake made
by Joan’s comrades at the Homecraft
Hostel and voted by everybody very de-
lectable eating when it came around with,
the nuts and coffee. Accompaniment
for the bridal gown of satin-backed
moire was a tulle veil and a posy of
orange-blossom and lily-of-the-valley.
The latter flowers were grown in Hol-
land and packed in ice for their long
journey to Melbourne. Betty Webb,
Leslie Bailey and Noni Brown attended
in gowns of apple-green, and they car-
ried bouquets of small bell-like nerine
lilies.
Even though the speeches were many
and merry the demands from the lads
were greater than the supply ; the ’groom
who is the only son of the C. E. Baileys,
of Sandringham, seemed the only per-
son who was relieved to get his talk
over. Groomsmen Dick Bailey and
David Hope responded nobly on several
occasions, and a highly-successful effort
was put across by best man Hugh
Stewart. Hugh is a twin of Hal Stew-
art, and the pair are so unalike that
they challenge the theory of two peas
in a pod. (Many of the guests present
had also been at the wedding of Hal
and Margaret Carson last February.)
After the dinner came dancing, and a
little court assembled around the bride s
grandmother, Mrs. H. M. Sutherland, ol
Ballarat.


LOOK..
II 1 were yon...
I’d buy an AIRZOXK..
fHATS GOOD ADVICE... when you buy an Airzone you own the finest
■ radio money can buy. A set you can be sure will give you the finest
entertainment at the lowest possible cost. Yes, DEFINITELY you cannot
do better than buy an Airzone. t
AIRZONE, DEAL WAVE, 6-VALVE
Model 056
New. Advanced. Beautiful. As modern as the hour, having
these exceptional advancements.
WORLD RANGE powerful circuit,
giving extra long distance reception and
high sensitivity. EXTENDED WAVE
RANGE, broadcast 1550 KC. to 540 KC
world short wave range 16 metres to 50
metres. MASSIVE CHASSIS, BEAU
TIFUL NEW STYLE CABINET
LARGE Bin. AERO DIAL. Dual edge-
lit glass scales and built-in control
knobs. One hundred call signs marked
on dial. INERTIA TUNING pioneered
by Airzone brings tuning to a fine art.
WONDERFULLY SELECTIVE. AU-
TOMATIC VOLUME CONTROL.
NEW AIRZON E-DEV ELOPED Win.
SPEAKER. GRAMOPHONE PICK
UP for electrical reproduction of
gramophone records.
CASH
PRICE
d
EASY
TERMS
¥ «m
fell
m
m
m
m
I
M
wm
m
z z
«•;:■>■ mmm $
'-J* — C,^,
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL RADIO DEALERS AND
MUSIC HOUSES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Manufactured by Airzone (1931) Ltd., Camperdown. Sydney.
W.BJ. 38.36
AIRZON
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
Queensland, at least on the south coast,
enjoyed ideal holiday weather. Beaches
were packed, and the bay was dotted with
sails and the white shapes of motor-boats.
Several thousands of holiday folk de-
scended on Southport, and the golf club
dance was a big success. President Willis
Taylor had Tom Hall and his handsome
wife to help him receive. Same night
there was a dance at Surfer’s Paradise,
and another in the Pacific Lounge, and
some untiring young folk managed to
take in all three.
Engagements are announced of June,
daughter of the Allen Warburtons, of
Ascot, to Dr. David Jermyn, son of Dr.
and Mrs. F. D. Jermyn, Vic.; and of
Grace, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. K.
Cameron, Kelvin Grove, to Roy, fifth
son of the late A. Rose and of Mrs.
Rose, Jimboomba.
Mrs. Worsley Gray, of Sydney, has been
visiting her mother, Mrs. Frank Wilson.
Before she went off to Southport, en
route to Bowral, Mrs. Alf Huybers gave
a luncheon party at Rowe’s in Mrs.
Gray’s honor.
Merna Gillies, president of the Town
and Country Club, gave a luncheon at
Lennon’s in honor of Evelyn Gedge, who
stayed at Government House while she
was in Brisbane. Lady Wilson, in her
favorite grey, was there, and other guests
were the Blair and Glasgow ladies, Mrs.
A. E. Moore and Doris Booth, who is
vice-president of the club.
Mrs. Sarah Wiley, for years pro-
prietress of Lennon’s Hotel, is in Bris-
bane again after some years in London.
She is staying at Lennon’s, where there
is a constant stream of visitors to see
her. An older generation still has lively
remembrances of the Armistice-night
party she staged.
Heather, second daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. John Provan, of Toowoomba, and
a member of one of the oldest and best-
known of the Downs families, exchanged
vows with Charles Brownlie Henderson,
of Palardo, Dulacca, son of J. B. Hen-
derson, who not so long ago retired from
his job as Government Analyst. Mrs.
Rex Whitty was matron of honor, and
Marjorie and Ruth Provan ’maided.
There was a reception at the Masonic
Hall, after which bride and ’groom left
for the South.
The Voice breathed in All Saints’
for Sepha, eldest daughter of the
Archie Scotts, formerly of Hornet
Bank and now of Brisbane, when
she was married to Keith Glasson,
of Inverell, youngest son of Mrs.
A. Glasson, Rose Bay, Sydney. The
bride was in dusky-pink wool georgette
with brown accessories, and wore a wide-
brimmed hat of brown summer felt. Mrs.
Ruscombe Poole was matron of honor,
and Eric Glasson best man. A cocktail
party at the National Hotel followed the
ceremony, after which the newly-weds
left by car for Sydney.
Business Girls’ Club of the Young
Australia League had Marie Bjelke Peter-
sen as guest of honor at its monthly
luncheon, and gave her a posy of frangi-
panni.
The only Oriental touch at the wed-
ding of Dorothy May Goong and James
Leong, members of two well-known
Chinese families long resident in Bris-
bane, was the shattering of a glass when
the toast of bride and ’groom was
honored. St. Andrew’s C. of E., South
Brisbane, was crowded with guests, and
the reception afterwards was held at the
Queensland Women’s Club. A halo of
sequins held the bridal veil of tulle, and
the wedding gown was ivory-beaded
lame.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mrs. Lance Lewis, who was the chief
instigator of Adelaide’s Floral Day, must
have been more than satisfied with the
result. Everyone rose to the occasion,
and there was a" surprising display of
floral carpets and flags. The latter were
immensely effective on the sloping lawn
outside Government House grounds.
People flocked into the city in thousands,
and restaurants and cakeshops sold out
every crumb. Many who had been grow-
ing flowers for the occasion had their
gardens completely wrecked by storm,
but sufficient had survived to supply the
required blossom.
The social season opened with the
Mayoral Ball in the Town Hall. The
Lady Mayoress undertook the whole of
the decoration, with the aid of friends.
An innovation was the holding of the
official supper in the reception-room of
the Lady Mayoress, where the tables
were arranged with purple and pink
asters. For the other guests buffet supper
was served in the banqueting-room
throughout the evening. Tremendous flat
bunches of gilded vines with long trails
looked effective hanging from the high
windows round the hall, the front of
the stage was banked with gladioli,
dahlias and zinnias in pink and yellow,
and long mirrors were festooned like the
front of the dress-circle with gilded vine
trails. The vice-regal party arrived at
9.15, Lady Dugan in fine black lace and
a diamond tiara. In the party were Mar-
jorie Forbes, Lady Dugan’s secretary, and
the two new A.D.Cs., Captain R. E. C.
Mortimer and T. N. Steele. His Ex.
opened the ball with the Lady Mayoress,
and Lady Dugan danced with Lord
Mayor Barrett.
At the St. Peter’s College chapel
Margaret, daughter of Mr and Mrs.
Douglas Phillips, of Somerton, became
Mrs. Basil Crawford. The bridegroom
has a property at Naracoorte, near the
caves. The bride’s pervenche blue crepe
had a fine pattern in silver thread and a
wide sash in a petunia tone. Her hat of
French felt, matching her frock, turned
sharply up in front, and she wore a spray
of orchids. Bridesmaid Alison Barrett
wore a French model toilette in pale-
beige crepe and a small hat in a Michel-
angelo red. A small reception was after-
wards held at the South Australian.
Joanna, elder daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Clem W. Matters, of Glenelg, and
Roderick Barrett, brother of our Lord
Mayor and the son of Mr. and Mrs.
A. O. Barrett, of Armadale, Vic., said
their vows at St. Peter’s, Glenelg. The
Barrett family was well represented, and
there were many inter-State visitors. The
bride, who is petite, looked charming in
white self-patterned organza veiling white
satin. Two rings were used in the cere-
mony by Canon Cavalier—the wedding
ring, of platinum, and a circlet of sap-
phires and diamonds, the bridegroom’s
gift to the bride. Bridesmaids were the
bride’s sister Fayette and Athalie Cum-
ing, from Melbourne, frocked alike in
shell-pink organza over soft satin the same
tone. Their hats of black French felt
showed a bandeau on the hair in front
and were finished with a bow of pale
pink on the crown. A reception was
afterwards held at Bongala, the home of
the bride’s parents.
Mary Gunson is leaving in July in the
Orontes to spend six months in Ceylon,
where she will be the guest of Mrs. Swift
Boyle at Kalutara. Mrs. Boyle was Edith
Donaldson, of Glenelg,’ prior to her mar-
riage. Miss Gunson will later stay with
Mrs. Graham Lawrie at Penang.
WESTRALIA.
Fremantle wharf presented a gay
scene at -sunset with twinkling lights
aboard and multicolored streamers flut-
tering when the Orama carried off lots
of locals on holiday bent abroad. Uni.
Vice-Chancellor Prof. Whitfield is off
with his wife on a leisurely tour which
will take in the U.S.A. on the homeward
trek, and the Dale Pitt couple, noted for
their hospitality both in town and at the
Big Bell, Cue, had their cabins trans-
formed into floral bowers by farewelling
friends. Violet Holmes, of the pastoral
family, had a busy time at valedictory
parties before packing trunks for Euro-
pean junketings with her mother, Mrs.
J. J. Holmes.
King’s Park Club attracted crowds of
enthusiasts to watch and compete in the
Easter tournaments. Mrs. Jack Morri-
son and Margaret Officer’s entry
brought back a partnership which used to
carry all before it about 10 years ago.
Rita McGibbon and Mrs. J. MacDer-
mott watched the play in trim grey
tweeds, Verna Mansfield caped white
woollens with navy, and Mrs. Roland
Nattrass, in tan coatings, sat with her
medico husband after partnering Molly
Noble in the women’s doubles.
A retinue of four of the bride’s sisters
clad in white tulle Empire frocks with
veils held by coronets of rosebuds fol-
lowed Cissie D’Arcy when she kept tryst
in St. Mary’s Cathedral with Austin Tan-
nock, of Melbourne. The bride’s trained
ivory-embossed satin was cut on Grecian
lines, with a corsage spray of orange-
blossom held by a cluster of pearls.
Toastings were at the Karrakatta Club.
Autumn-toned woollens with brown
suede accessories clothed both bride and
’maid at Edna Thom’s marriage in St.
Patrick’s to Senator and Mrs. H. B.
Collett’s son Laurie. Bride’s sister Jean
removed the glove in a shade darker
brown than the bridal garb, and Mrs. E.
Thom hostessed a quiet toast-drinking
afterwards at her Mt. Lawley home.
Despite torrents of rain the Borgioli
concert drew the usual crowd of real
music-lovers to His Majesty’s. Marshall
Sumner officiated at the Steinway grand
and newly-engaged Kit Sherlock turned
the pages for him. Signpra Borgioli’s
heavy white laces sat beside the Mitchell
lady’s petunia and silver lames, and the
Italian Consul, Signor Constantino, and
A.B.C. heads, the Conrad Charltons,
helped to fill the v.-r. box.
A new diamond ring is being sported
by the Percy Stones’ only daughter,
Lucy, who has said “yes” to Peter Strick-
land, of South Perth. Another wedding-
to-be is that of Daphne Warwick, who
on attaining her twenty-first birthday an-
nounced the claim of Billy Stockwell, of
Peppermint Grove, to look after her
future birthdays.
TASMANIA.
Mrs. J. G. Mitchell farewelled Lady
Clark, who sails for England in the Mool-
tan at the end of this month, at a buffet
luncheon, followed by bridge and tea,
at her own home, Etham, Sandy Bay.
The Winkfields, Lady Clark’s brother
and sister-in-law, were among the guests.
Dr. Ramsay (president) and Mrs.
Ramsay entertained a big throng at the
opening of the Launceston Golf Club.
Members from most of the northern and
midland clubs swelled the crowd. The
clubroom had an all-yellow decorative
scheme. Mrs. Ramsay was in a navy
ensemble, hat to match, with veil. Lovely
weather made the function a perfect day’s
outing.
The Rupert Agnews have decided to
leave the Speck and will live at Rose
Bay, Sydney. Before leaving Launceston
Mrs. Agnew was farewelled by many
friends.
Nell Edged, marrying John Gray this
month, and Bessie Crisp, marrying lan
Maxwell shortly after, are sharing par-
ties by the dozen. Last week’s hostesses
were Sybil Lyons, Rose Courthope, the
Alan Maxwells (who gave a sherry party
at their own home), Mrs. R. G. Jackson,
Mrs. Brian Hodgman, Alison Simpson,
Mrs. Merle St. Hill and Mrs. Laurie
Murdoch.
Lady Clark was at Mary Keating’s
mannequin parade, held at Hadley’s.
Crowds of women rolled up to inspect
the models, designed by Miss Keating,
some of which were most attractive,
evening gowns especially. The show ran
during the afternoon and evening, to the
accompaniment of piano and violin,
played by Rita Fox and Linda Sheen,
and with intervals for refreshment.
Wilga, eldest girl of the Harvie Thomp-
sons, Carinya, Lower Sandy Bay, and
Harold Stanley Shone, Risdon, announce
their engagement.
“Ming”: A suburban dame invited to
a fashionable wedding-to-be set out
to attend a pre-wedding function at the
home of the bride in the next street. On
her way sh’e had to pass the back gate
of the house, and sticking from beneath
the partly-off lid of a large bin she saw
a green-rimmed object, immediately
identified as the expensive vase she
had bestowed on the bride. She
indignantly salvaged it from the rubbish
and' bore it home. At the party she
was overwhelmed with thanks for her
beautiful gift, but she knew what she
knew. She later learned that the bride
and her family were confirmed “green-
ists,” to whom that color spelt ill-omen.
The maid had been asked to quietly get
rid of the green vase.
* * * *
“Brig”: The schoolmaster who in-
sisted on an old-time impot being wiped
off before he would provide an ex-pupil
with a letter of commendation (B.
21/4/’3B) had something of a parallel
some years ago. Mrs. A, a society
dame of much tonnage,- looking
round for likely subscribers to a pet
charity, hit on Mrs. B, recently admitted
to a semi-smart set, and known to Mrs.
A only by name and repute of wealth.
The letter brought an astounding re-
sponse : Mrs. B wrote to say that if
Mrs. A would forward her cheque for
£ll, unpaid board due Mrs. B from a
sojourn in the latter’s suburban board-
ing-house some years before, a good sub-
scription to the charity would follow.
The disconcerted Mrs. A paid up, hav-
ing, like her creditor, become well-off
with passing years. Mrs. B sent along
her cheque, explaining to her social circle
that she really did not need the £ll, but
had no intention of letting “that jumped-
up cat” get away with her charitable
pose.


hl(
EMPIRE'S MILLIONS
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
CAPACITY-RESISTANCE BRIDGE.
This capacity-resistance bridge is one of the most useful pieces
of test apparatus to have on hand in the radio workshop. It is
simply constructed from readily-obtainable parts, and is of equal
value to the serviceman or experimenter. Capacities from 10 micro-
microfarads to 10 rilicrofarads and resistances from 10 ohms to 10
megohms are provided for with a direct-reading scale.
In radio there is often the necessity
for checking capacity or resistance, and
frequently the constructor or serviceman
will have occasion to use old fixed con-
densers or resistances on which the mark-
ings are illegible. Combination volt-ohm
milliammeters for measuring resistances
can be had cheaply, but capacity meters
The circuit diagram of the capacity-resistance bridge.
are usually too expensive for the amateur.
There are other methods of measuring
capacities, but the bridge method is prob-
ably the best and presents no difficulties
in the way of construction.
Either a variable condenser or a poten-
tiometer can be employed for the con-
trol effecting the balance, the poten-
tiometer method having the advantage
that the completed instrument is not
confined to capacities alone, and will
function as an accurate direct-reading
ohmmeter. It is essential to use a poten-
tiometer with uniformly wire-wound
characteristics. In other words, the two
halves of the potentiometer must have
the same ratio for all positions of the
moving contact in order to be able to
make use of a printed scale of the kind
illustrated in Fig. 3.
The circuit of the bridge is shown in
Fig. 1. It consists mainly of a 20,000-
ohm wire-wound potentiometer, two
double-pole double-throw switches, plus
resistance and capacity standards. The
source of alternating current for actu-
ating the bridge is a 500-cycle battery-
operated oscillator, and headphones are
used for measurement.
For both capacity and resistance there
are two ranges. For resistance one range
measures from 10 to 100,000 ohms and
the other from 1000 ohms to 10 meg-
ohms.
The capacity ranges cover from
lOmmfds. to 10 microfarads. Change
from one range to the other is effected
by the double-pole double-throw switch
S 2, and the other D.P.D.T. switch S 3
changes from capacity to resistance. As
shown in Fig. 1, S 2 in the one position
takes in the lower range (XI) and multi-
plies by 100 in the other position.
Although small knife switches can be
used for this purpose, a much more
businesslike job is made of the instru-
ment by using single-hole-mounting
toggle switches, which are obtainable in
D.P.D.T. form.
The two condensers, .lmfd. and
.00lmfd., also the 1000- and 100,000-ohm
resistances connected to S 2, are the stan-
dards for the bridge, which means that
these must be within plus or minus 1 per
cent, value.
The 20,000-ohm wire-wound poten-
tiometer used in the writer’s instrument
is a Microhm. This make is uniform
throughout the winding, and has a posi-
tive contact shoe running over the wire
turns along the strip. Terminals XI and
Fig. 3 .—This direct-reading scale can be cut out and used for the capacity-resistance
bridge.
X 2 in Fig. 1 are for the unknown con-
denser or resistance. Two short flex
leads are used with alligator clips for
this purpose.
Battery Oscillator.
In Fig. 2 is shown the 500-cycle oscil-
lator for energising the bridge. This is
simply a battery triode used in a Hart-
ley circuit, with a centre-tapped choke
between grid and plate. This choke can
be the primary of a push-pull speaker
transformer as supplied with dynamic
speakers for triodes or pentodes. A 45-
volt light-duty B battery provides the
plate voltage, and if the valve is a type
30 two small ly-volt cells are used with
a 15-ohm resist-
ance to drop the
voltage to two for
the filament. In
the writer’s case, a
Philips A 409 is
used with a
C battery for fila-
ment.
The oscillator is
wired up as shown
in the circuit of
Fig. 2, and the out-
put taken from the
plate through a
.smfd. condenser,
The positive and negative connections
of Fig. 2 connect to the positive
and negative input terminals of the
bridge in Fig. 1. The direct reading
scale of Fig. 3 is made full size, so that
the reader can cut it out and fix it to the
panel of the finished instrument. The
potentiometer is fitted with a pointer
knob, made simply from a strip of brass
fastened to an ordinary spindle knob.
The reader may have his own ideas
about the actual form of the completed
job, but the writer made the original up
in a plywood box measuring lOin. square
and taking a sloping bakelite panel of
that size. The oscillator is contained
with batteries in the box, and a switch
for the filament placed at the front. The
panel carries two pairs of terminals, one
pair for headphones and the other for
the test leads.
Using the Bridge.
Operation is simple. A condenser
or resistance is connected to the leads
S 2 and S 3, set to the appropriate range,
the oscillator switched on and the poten-
tiometer indicator rotated.
Balance of the bridge is indicated by
a null position in the 500-cycle tone of
the oscillator. If this null position is not
very sharp it may indicate faulty insula-
tion in a condenser. The method of set-
ting the pointer arm is simple, and the
calibration should hold good over the
whole range if the resistance and capa-
city standards in the bridge are good.
Obtain a 1000-ohm resistance that is
known to be accurate. Connect this to
the test leads with S 2 in the “multiply-
by-one” position and S 3 on R. Switch
on the oscillator and adjust the poten-
tiometer until the null point is indicated
in the headphones. Set the pointer on
the potentiometer spindle to the 1000-
ohm position on the scale and lock
securely in place. All other resistance
values should be in step around the scale.
There may be a slight discrepancy on
the capacity side in the reading of small
capacities up to .000lmfd., because the
capacity between the leads for testing
must be taken into consideration at
capacities of the order of 10 to about
Battery-operated oscillator for energising the bridge.
30 mmfds. A little practice will show
how much the pointer is reading ahead
on these smaller capacities, and allow-
ance can be made. With the instrument
made up, the scale can be covered with
a window made of cellophane as a pro-
tection from dust.
Parts needed:
One 20,000-ohm wire-wound potentiometer
(Microhm).
Two D.P.D.T. toggle-type switches, S 2 and S 3.
One ON-OFF battery switch, SI.
One 1000-ohm resistance (plus or minus 1 p.c.).
One 100,000-ohm resistance (plus or minus
1 p.c.).
One .lmfd. condenser (plus or minus 1 p.c.
Ducon).
One .00lmfd. condenser (plus or minus 1 p.c.
Ducon).
One 30,000-ohm resistor (input load).
One pair high-resistance headphones.
One centre-tapped 30-henry audio choke.
One four-pin valve socket.
One ,smfd. condenser.
One 25,000-ohm resistor.
One 50,000-ohm resistor.
One .005mfd. condenser.
One 15-ohm resistance.
One 45-volt B battery.
Two H-volt torch cells.
One type-30 valve.
Two alligator clips.
Six terminals.
Bakelite panel lOin. by lOin. and box to suit.
One plain knob (adapt for pointer).
All resistances are one-watt rating, and
wiring of the bridge is done in 16-gauge
tinned copper.
D. B. K.
What's What in Radio.
It is planned to increase the power of
the veteran U.S.A. short-wave broadcast-
ing station W2XAF to an effective car-
rier power of 1200 kilowatts. This will
be more than twice the power of any
long-wave station.
* * * $
The characteristic musical tone to an-
nounce the time of day by station
W.O.R. Newark, N.J. (U.S.A.), is so ac-
curate that it is used as a musical pitch
standard. The signal comes from an elec-
trically-driven tuning fork emitting a
pure 440-cycle tone, with an accuracy
within .002 p.c.
* * * *
Westminster Abbey, London, is being
wired for a permanent public-address
installation in which six microphones and
70 amplifiers are to be employed. So
as not to damage the dignity of the
Abbey, the loudspeakers are either totally
hidden from sight or are finished to
match surroundings.
* * * *
Two new short-wave transmitters have
been placed on the air by the British
Malaya B.C. They are ZHP and ZHO,
working on 31.48 and 49.9 metres respec-
tively.
* * * *
Two of the 10 proposed transmitters
for the Indian broadcasting system have
been in operation for some time. They
are the Philips lOkw. short-wave station
VUD and the Marconi skw. medium-
wave station VUL at Lahore. VUD,
located in Bombay, transmits on 90.8
metres at night and on 49.3 metres dur-
ing daytime.
* * * *
“Pivot”: The relatively cheap moving
iron-type milliammeter is popular with
many experimenters. As an indicator in
circuits where a mil or two either way is
not vital, it is good enough, but, once
overloaded, the needle goes hard over,
then swings aimlessly about with no
return to zero. Reason is loss of mag-
netism, and this is easily remedied. The
magnet is a small U-shaped piece of steel
at the rear of the movement. Remove
this and wind about 50 turns of 26
D.C.C. in the bend of the U. Flash the


"RADI O”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly
including special annual number; the'
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
"RADIO DIGEST”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but “RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most important radio
publications.
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
from the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office. 252 George Street,
Sydney.
©
wsr-
-8%
kV.
91
> m
MOTORING
s .\W\\
fc
AN-
CAMPING
mm
<Kv.
BY THE BEDSIDE
•ail Will*:*:!
Jhi Nature has equipped the cat with "eyes
T that see inthe dark"—but foryou to move
around safely at night, or to do any of those
countless little jobs that so often need doing
after sunset—YOU MUST CARRY A TORCH!
Dependable Ever Ready Torches—fitted with
"factory fresh" Ever Ready Torch Refills—
shed light on many a dark subject. Helped by
its friendly brilliance, the motorist fixes a "flat"
tyre more easily, the lost camper finds his
way back, the householder feels more secure.
If you haven't got a torch, BUY ONE
TO-DAY. If you have got one, keep it
loaded. You may need it to-night!
Ever Ready
TORCHES-REFILLS
EVER READY CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD., Sydney
T7A.
ends of the wire once across a six-volt
battery and the magnetism will be re-
stored. When replacing the magnet in
the meter, the angle of the legs of the U
in relation to the meter coil governs the
needle zero setting, and with the needle
reading 0 the magnet is tightened into
position by the clamping screw.
Amateur Chatter.
VKs from all the States gathered in
Sydney for the W.I.A. convention just
concluded, and met other “hams” known
A corner of the effects studio at Broadcasting House, London, during the
production of a play.
previously only by their callsigns. At
the annual N.S.W. Division dinner the
Crawford trophy for 1937-38 was pre-
sented to A. G. Henry, VK2ZK, who
earned the title of “best amateur tele-
graphist in N.S.W.”
Visitors at VK2NO during the conven-
tion included VKs SMD, 688 and 4LX
and ZL2OV. On 15/4/’3B a 56mc. test
was run with VKSZU, and, although no
contact was recorded, a chirpy
signal was heard at 10.5 a.m. Sydney
time, sending “CQ DX FIVE.” Owing to
the unsteady nature of the signal, which
originated obviously from a self-excited
transmitter, efforts to identify the call-
sign failed.
The signal varied rapidly from R 6 to
R 2. Receiving beam at VK2NO was bi-
directionally N.E./S.W. at the time.
Although the time corresponded with the
first schedule with VKSZU, it is known
that the South Australian is using a stable
crystal-controlled transmitter.
Intense sunspot activity is again re-
ported, and during the eve'ning of
16/4/’3B there was almost a complete
“blackout” on all short-wave signals.
Rumor Ms it that all is not well with
the amateur bands after Cairo, but no-
thing is known officially. So far as VK.
is concerned one band that would not
be missed is 160 metres, for it is seldom
used by any but commercial services.
So many 20-metre VKs appear to use
two half-waves in phase directional for
U.S.A. that it is a wonder they work any
other countries but U.S.A. and those
regions in the path of the transmission.
There are obvious compensations for the
“all-directional” four-lobe full-wave
aerials on 20 metres. The stations using
them are not confined to one or two
countries alone.
Most amusing S.W.L. report the writer '
has had comes from G. 8., where a S.W.L.
sends a lengthy report on VK2NO work-
ing a W 3 on telephony, adding the advice
“under favorable conditions you should
be able to contact some British station.”
VK2NO has long lost count of the many
hundreds of G stations worked with in
the last 12 years.
VK2NO.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
The Ideal Battery T.R.F. all-wave
receiver (described fully in B. 28/4/’37)
has been set up at Quilpie (s.-w. Q.), using
an aerial 70ft. high, dropping to 30ft.,
with a lead-in of about 40ft. It is pro-
viding excellent reception. On the broad-
cast band 2CR, 3WV, 2CO, 2NR and
SCL can be heard all day at good speaker
strength without any overlapping. At
night, however, it is difficult to separate
some of the stations except by using a
small indoor aerial.
Short-wave reception has been first-
rate at all hours. In the mornings
W3XAL is heard on 16 metres, and on
the 19-metre band W2XAD, W2XE,
WBXK, OLR, GSO, GSF, DJR, DJQ,
DJB, DJL and JZK come in well. The
Americans and Germans can be heard
almost at any hour right through the
morning ; also DJR, DJQ and DJB until
closing at 2 p.m. GSF closes down at 2
p.m. and is fairly good at that time.
During the mornings the 25-metre band
finds TPA3, JZJ, DJD and GSD putting
up a good show, but WIXAL is the best
station. On 31 metres OZF, OLR, GSB.
W2XAF, WIXK, W3XAU, 2RO, COCQ,
KZRM, JZI and DJN have been heard
well.
On 49 metres are to be found DJC,
ZRH and a foreigner around 49.2
metres, giving news in English at 7 a.m.
From 4 p.m. the German stations have
improved, but DJE is the only one com-
parable with the Daventry stations, which
are now a long way ahead on 19, 25 and
31 metres. GSD is the star, with GSO,
GSF and GSB in order of strength.
TPA3 commences at 4 p.m. and is now
quite good. At night GSJ is very strong
at the opening of Transmission 2, and is
consistent, being the best of the five
Daventrys. By 9.30 p.m. all are at full
volume, but GSJ appears to have the
extra kick to the signal.
All the 31-metre stations are good at
night, but the 49-metre band suffers from
static. During the afternoons VLR is
exceptionally good. A remarkable feature
of this receiver, which, after all, is only
a small job with one R.F. stage, is how
it receives the broadcast stations in day-
light. Best broadcast band performance
has been Japan and W.A. at midnight in
Townsville, and with a very poor aerial.
On 10/4/’3B morning reception was
very good, and the Kanimbla station
VK9MI, relaying to 2AY Albury (N.S.W.)
from near Adelaide, was as clear as 1
have ever heard. On 12/4/’3B RNE was
found to be very strong on 25 metres
between 7 and 9 a.m. A nine-valve
superhet is available for comparison
at Quilpie, and the results are as usual —
the T.R.F. receiver wins. Short-wave
stations can be heard and understood on
the T.R.F. in the late mornings when
the big superhet is dumb.
K. B. G.
Japanese U.S.W. Trans-
missions.
A Japanese amateur has been trying
to reach Australia with transmissions in
the amateur 56mc. band. He is K.
Yuasa, 104 3-Chome Kamome-cho,
Naniwa-Ku, Osaka. Power input is 400
watts, with frequency at 56,800 kc., and
times of transmission 0200 to 0210 and
0900 to 0910 G.M.T. daily. This corre-
sponds to noon to
12.10 p.m. and 7
p.m. to 7.10 p.m.
E.A.T. Yuasa asks
Australian 56mc.
experimenters to
keep an ear open
for signals.
Philips
"Technical
Review."
Philips “Techni-
cal Review,” pub-
lished monthly by
Philips Research
Laboratory, covers
a wide field of
scientific research.
Light and illumina-
tion, radio and tele-
vision, sound re-
cording and repro-
duction, telephony,
X-rays, cathode
rays, electro-techni-
cal apparatus and
research on ma-
terials come within
its scope, the
articles being
written or super-
vised.by the actual
experimen ting
scientists them-
selves, and set out
in such simple form
as to be readily
understood.
S u b s c r i p tion
(10s. per annum) is
payable to Philips,
Sydney, but sub-
scribers receive
their copies direct
from the laboratory
at Eindhoven, Hol-
land.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) Is it possible for one who knows nothing
about wireless to build a small set with one or
two valves for headphone use, capable of giv-
ing daylight reception of stations from Yass,
N.S.W.? (2) Would it be possible to add a
receiver for short-wave reception ? (3) Where
can complete unassembled kits be obtained? —
662.
(1) and (2) Yes. (3) Price’s Radio Service,
Angel-place, Sydney.
* * *
L don’t understand the technicalities of wire-
less, but the family wants a receiver. What
set would permit me to tune in London at a
cost that won’t bankrupt me? —66l.
This Page doesn’t make recommendations of
that sort. Any of the dual-wave mantel-type
models as advertised by reputable manufac-
turers in The Bulletin will suit. Average
price about £2O.
A rigger descending the television mast at B.B.C. Television
Station, Alexandra Palace, London. The mast, which rises to
a height of 300ft. from the ground and stands on a hill 306ft.
above sea level, carries vision and sound aerials on outriggers.
Under heavy gale conditions the knuckle-joints may flex and
allow the front radiators to fall back and foul the reflectors.
It is then necessary for the rigger to climb the mast and
realign the outriggers—demanding steady nerves and a high
degree of skill.


VITA-LICK
Produces Well-nourished,
Even Fleeces.
Mr. R. H. Fewster, Moodiarrup,
Duranillan, W.A., writes, Illllj’29:
“My sheep are fatter and better
than ever, also cutting heavier
fleeces of beautiful well-nourished
wool. I can only attribute the won-
derful condition of my stock to the
treatment and licks supplied by
Vita-Lick, Ltd.”
Vita-Lick Agents in all Sheep and
Cattle Centres.
VITA-LICK, LTD.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney.
MINERALS IN WINTER.
“Tri-cal”: Thanks for letting me know
how pleased you are with Tri-cal-os Bone
Flour. I knew you couldn’t be other-
wise. The fact that your sheep seek it
means they need it. You won’t, of
course, see the benefit immediately, but
your wool cheque should tell the story.
Yes, you were right in that argument
with Bill about the relationship between
the phosphate content of the grasses and
the growth of the grass. In young green
shoots the phosphate content is high, in
the old dry growth it is lowest. Hence
the need for Tri-cal-os in the winter
months when there is little or no growth
taking place. Tell Bill that Davis
Gelatine, Sydney, will send him'full particulars about Tri-cal-os for sheep.
It’s reliable and economical. Old Farmer.
V s
±i
WStsh.
r
nNo9
£S
A Self-contained Sanitary System.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Approved by Hoard of Health.
HYGIENIC, INNOCUOUS.
No odours, flies,
germs or noise.
Provides one
amenity of City
life. Over 650
in use. Shell Oil
Co., 59 repeat
orders; Bank
N.S.W., 10. In-
stalled by Com-
monwealth Govt.,
Hotels, Hospitals,
Schools, Private
Homes, Theatres,
etc. Can be installed where Septic Tanks are
impracticable. Simply installed. Cheap to run.
Automatic. Price £l5/10/- f.o.b. £l6
other States. Write for free pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
is!
-si
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Friday.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Wool at Sydney Royal.
“Bungaree”: This year there was a
wool exhibit at the R.A.S. The organ-
isers are to be congratulated on making
a start, but future displays, should be
more comprehensive and better ar-
ranged.
Practically the whole display comprised
showcases of wool lent by various
brokers. The exception was a central
exhibit of fleece types arranged in pigeon-
holes and handled and pulled about by
the crowds. There were no placards or
labels, nothing to explain type. or
whether it was from a merino or British
breed or the district it came from.
Most of the showcases lent by the
brokers were conspicuously marked with
the name of the clip, while the wool was
arranged to show the characteristics of
each fleece.
Some interesting specimens of rugged
and unrugged fleeces from S.A. were
shown, but the exhibit that drew most
comment —from sheepmen, at any rate —
was a case of samples from various clips
sold in the 1924 boom year: “Pomeroy,
31 bales of fleece at 45d. per pound,
bellies at ; Lugano (Boorowa)
fleece, 41d. ; Canalong (Binalong), 47d.
per pound —the 250 bales of this clip,
including locks, averaging 38|d.”
It needed only a little of- the Tabrax
(N.Q.) clip which made 514 d. to com-
plete the picture.
Blowfly Conditions.
“Warramulla”: All M.O.L. writers
seem agreed that it takes moisture in the
wool —from rain, urine or a sweaty area
such as Mules’s operation would cut out
—to make a condition attractive for fly-
strike. That being so, the strikes behind
the shoulder and across the saddle seem
hard to account for, as these places
should carry the driest portions of the
fleece.
Behind the shoulders is a happy hunt-
ing-ground at times for the fly, especi-
ally among wethers. They seem to be
very susceptible to a strike hereabouts,
and can be pretty far gone before being
detected.
One explanation is that sheep which
have been blown about the hindquarters
will rub themselves against clean sheep
ill a mob. The smell and moisture, being
transferred to the clean animal, attract
the attention of the fly. But the ewe is
usually struck about the hindquarters
and the wether about the shoulders.
Ewes and wethers are run in separate
mobs and paddocks,7 so it seems that
some other explanation must be forth-
coming.
Given suitable climatic conditions the
fly will strike blind-eyed and hit any-
where.
“G.H.H.”: Stud sheep are not more
susceptible to blowfly strike than others.
“Bungaree” (B. 30/3/’3B) does not take
into account that it is only the more
readily-disseminated water-rot among
the stud sheep, developed through fre-
quent handling, that is the trouble.
The great need is to reduce water-rot.
Droving, shearing, dipping, jetting and
clutching are more damaging indirectly
than body conformity and wrinkles ever
can be. The incidence of water-rot is
higher in wet weather than in dry, and
folds are probably the places best suited
for rapid development of the bacteria.
What Is a Hogget?
“Murrawong”: The definition of a
hogget as a sheep between the first and
second shearings (B. 9/3/’3B) is too loose
and unpractical. If it were true, how
is the animal to be known, prior to the
first shearing should that not take place
until it is 13-15 months old? ' •
From a woolman’s point of view
hogget wool is fleece from a sheep (other
than a lamb) which has not' previously
been shorn and which shows immature
staple formation and pointed lamb tip.
Looseness in nomenclature is chiefly
due to lambings and shearings at different
periods of the year. Lambs may be
whitewashed at a few weeks old or shorn
at any age up to 15 months. The fleece
of a lamb shorn at 3-4 months arid next
time a year later is more correctly
branded “wethers” and will fetch more
than if branded “hoggets.’.’ Actually, at
the second shearing, a sheep should be
termed “shirled” hogget.
In practice, a young sheep should be
known as a lamb until weaned, and from
“Interested in something for the uohite-anls, sir?"
“No, thanks—they've got enough-to go on with."
that stage until he cuts his first two per-
manent teeth as a hogget Thereafter it
is a wether or maiden ewe.
Many graziers set an arbitrary date on
which to advance the ages ,of their sheep,
and that’s why, at shearing time, there
are usually a few runs of lambs to be
shorn, the drop of the “maiden” ewes.
Autumn Lambing.
“S.-west”: With paddocks bare and
fodder reserves' low, N.S.W. inland
graziers whose ewes are to lamb in
autumn are likely to have heavy losses.
The lambing will be poor and the lambs
saved valuable.
Ewes heavy in lamb must not be allowed
to lose condition or deaths are certain.
If there is dry feed a ration of 4oz. to
Boz. of oats per day will keep them going.
During lambing hay and silage are more
suitable, as ewes with tiny lambs will
have a chance to feed.
Place the weakest ewes in paddocks
by '-themselves. A 200-acre paddock with
a green pick will carry 30 or 40 ewes and
give them a chance. Destroy all sheep
that look hopeless.
See that the ewes on dry feed get
plenty of' exercise or toxaemia of preg-
nancy may develop. When the rains
come shift, the ewes into .sheltered pad-
docks and hand-feed in earnest.
- It is good policy to leave a little grass
in several paddocks and to hand-feed
the sheep in stubble or scrub paddocks.
Paddocks that have not been flogged
right out will recover quickly when it
rains.
Oxford Downs.
: There are a few* Oxford
Downs in Australia (B. 30/1/’3B), but
not enough to make much difference to
crosses. The heaviest of the Downs
breeds, and evolved originally by mating
Cotswold rams with Hampshire ewes,
the O.D. does not possess the same
early-maturing qualities as the others.
The brown-grey wool about the throat,
breast and belly does not help the O.D.
as a dual-purpose sheep. There are
enough heterogeneous types of crossbred
wools, without a dash of color being
added. ' V " A" •
The O.D. is more, a,mutton than a fat-
lamb .producer, : but . when > mated with
Southdown rams the first cross 0.D.-
merino ewes produce good types of fat
lambs. ? V' - - v ; '
Meeting the' Market.
“Jumbuck”: If woolgrowers had - all
information relative to the market value
of their'wool at their fingertips there
might be some reason for placing
reserves on clips {B. p/4/’3B). Most
growers might be fair judges of, sheep
but not many can value their wool.
Fashions , change quickly, and so do
buyers’ limits: and even brokers don’t
claim to be able to make more than
approximate valuations.
At the Geelong sales recently Lincoln
wool sold up to per pound —sd. per
pound more than for the best merino-
and reliable valuations cannot be always
based on Bradford tops quotes. Few
products are subject to more fluctuations
than wool, and, with no knowledge ol:
buyers’ needs or limits, growers who meet
the market year in, year out will have
little to complain of.
Woolbrokers are indispensable to the
trade, and can be depended upon to pro-
te'ct the interests of their clients by pass-
ing lots in that do not elicit bids close
to their estimates. “Sell and repent, but
sell,” has a wealth of logic in it.
Combined Duties.
“C.V.S.”: An overseer-classer-expert
would be overworked by a fast team ol
three shearers (B. 6/4/’3B), especially it
he helped in penning-up and piece-pick-
ing or rolling.
Saw a three-stand shed being run by
a staff of overseer-expert to pen-up and
assist piece-pick, one picker-up, one
classer-roller-piece-picker, and one
presser-cook. The overseer was too busy
to spare much time for piece-picking,
and the classer had to work into every
“smoke-oh” on the pieces. The presser-
cook had to be dragged from his pots to
empty a bin, and everyone had bad
tucker and' temper. One extra man or
boy would have made the difference.
Though, as “Bungaree” states, the
demand is for an overseer-classer-expert
even, in five- and six-stand sheds, the
combination is not a good one. He has
not time to properly supervise skirting,
piece-picking and, pressing, and a break-
down of one machine may engage his
attention while unclassed fleeces pile
roof-high. A better way is to substitute
.a classer-roller for one of the rollers.
■ “B-gar”: Flocks of up to 2000 sheep
may‘not warrant the employment of a


%
/
tl
r /i
li
■Sfr'-
zp
i^^fclPiii
THREE DISTINCTLY
DIFFERENT CHASSES
JL THE STANDARD
for 10-12 cwt. loads.
JL THE MASTER DE LUXE
for 10-12 cwt. loads.
JL THE COMMERCIAL
for 15 cwt. loads.
THE CHEVROLET OPEN COUPE UTILITY.
The handsome Utility (illustrated above) is avail-
able with either half door or full door Coupe front
on both Master de Luxe and Standard Chasses.
Alternative body styles: Wellsides and Flareboard.
88
THE CHEVROLET STANDARD PANEL VAN.
The stylish Panel Van (illustrated above) is available
on the Standard Utility Chassis. A similar unit for 15
cwt. loads is available on the Commercial Chassis.
'
THE CHEVROLET COMMERCIAL UTILITY.
With its Roomy Platform, Coaming and Dropsides
Body and All-Steel Truck Cab, this 15 cwt. model
(illustrated above) offers the finest value in the
whole Utility field. Alternative body styles include:
Wellsides, Open, Flareboard and Panel Van.
COSTS ONLY A FEW POUNDS MORE A YEAR FOR
PETROL THAN THE SMALLEST LOW-POWERED UNIT
Chevrolet offers Australia’s Greatest Utility value for 1938 with the finest, most complete range of
low-priced full-sized Utilities on the market. Investigate competitive prices and you’ll prove
that the ultra-smart model illustrated above is the lowest-priced, full-sized Utility on the Aus-
tralian market. Body styles available are : Flareboard, Wellside, Open, Panel Van (Standard
and Commercial), Platform, Coaming and Dropsides (Commercial). Read the features listed below
and note Chevrolet’s brilliant engineering and modern equipment . . . check running expenses
and you’ll find that a full-sized, full-powered Chevrolet Utility costs only a few pounds more a year
for petrol than the smallest low-powered units. What’s more, Chevrolet money-saving can be applied
to every kind of Utility work. The wide range of Chasses and body styles available makes it
extremely easy to choose the right Utility for your job. Accept your dealer’s invitation to test one
of these brilliant Chevrolet Utilities yourself—there’s no obligation.
ONLY CHEVROLET GIVES YOU ALL THESE FEATURES:
Overhead Valve 6-cylinder Economy Engine
(which never needs replacing). Perfected “Full
Contact” Hydraulic Brakes. Synchro-mesh
Gears. Exclusive New-design Clutch. Box-
Girder Frame (steel channel frame on Com-
mercials). “Turretop” Driving Compartments
on Coupe Utilities. All-steel Truck Cab on
Commercial models. Complete equipment, in-
cluding Front Bumper and Front Shock Absorb-
ers. Independent Front Springing and Rear
Shock Absorbers on Master de Luxe models.
General Motors Holden’s Limited
CHEVROLET UTILITY PRICES
Commercial Utility 112" W.B. Chassis £239
Standard Utility 112}" W.B. Chassis - £249
Master Utility M2}" W.B. Chassis - £269
Standard Coupe Utility with Open Body £307
Commercial Utility with Open Body
and Truck Cab ... £3OB
Master Coupe Utility with Open Body £327
(All Prices Plus Sales Tax)
CHEVROLET TRUCK CHASSES PRICES FROM £255 (Plus Sales Tax)
Easy to Buy Under Confidential G.M.A.C. Payment Plan.
There’s a Complete Range of Chevrolet Trucks, factory-rated for i-ton to 9-ton payloads, including an
entirely NEW ONE-TONNER. Complete range of Standard body styles for all ratings. Special
bodies available for individual requirements. See your Chevrolet Dealer for particulars and prices.
Your Money Goes Further in a General Motors’ Product.
THE 1938
■
I
X
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia
C<l2-48
classer, but even the inexperienced
grower should be able to discriminate
between a well-grown and a short staple,
between light- and heavy-conditioned
fleeces, and should be able to test for
sound and tender fibres. Quality as it
refers to spinning capacity might present
a difficulty, but in merino wool only
those fleeces broader in fibre than the
average need attention, whilst in cross-
bred flocks quality can be gauged in-
variably by length of staple, coarseness
of fibre becoming greater with increasing
length. !
. With the small merino flock, two main
fleece lines will suffice, coarse and tender
fleeces being omitted and placed in two
cast lots. With crossbreds, if the flock
is mixed, star lots are unavoidable, but
each line should be dominated by length
of staple. In ordinary crossbred flocks
the best plan to adopt is to make three
main lines, fine, medium and strong,
with a cast lot subsidiary to each. Tender
fleeces should not be disregarded.
Careful skirting is essential, and stains
must be removed from wether bellies
and pieces and kept separate from the
locks. If the grower feels he is incom-
petent to get his clip up reasonably well,
it’ll pay to skirt the fleeces, keep the
bellies, skirtings and stains separate, and
send the clip down to the broker for re-
classing. It is always well to bear in
mind that to overclass is almost as bad
as to underclass.
Baby Beef on Dairy Farms.
“W.D.Mc.”: Dr. Hammond, a Cam-
bridge University. nutrition expert—he
says Keele and Son’s farm, Bamawn
(Vic.), is the most interesting he has seen
in his travels —recommends baby-beef
production on irrigation lands.
I have maintained in the M.O.L. pages
for years past that the baby-beef indus-
try will show a bigger net profit than
butter-production with an average herd
of cows. I know a dairyman who fat-
tened 18 calves on an old tough cow.
They averaged £2 per head or £36 gross
for the season, and the old cow showed
a much better net return than the best
cow in the herd in milk.
If dairymen on migable country would
use beef bulls they would produce a
much better class of vealer. Any decent
dairy cow will fatten two vealers at once
on good pasture.
Silage Hints.
“Granova”: Black oats make good
silage if pitted as soon as they come out
in ear. Allow wheat and oats to become
more mature.
Sloping sides pack better than straight
ones, reducing the amount of waste. Rain
on the pit during filling does not do any
harm provided water is not allowed to
run into the pit.
If a high crown of silage is built above
the ground, uncovering is much easier, as
the dirt at the sides of the pit will not
sink below ground level. A good cover-
ing of dirt, about 18in. deep, will reduce
the waste on top to one layer of material.
The bigger the pit, the smaller the waste,
other things being equal. Pits holding
100 tons are a handy size on properties
carrying 1500 sheep or more.
It is easy to pack the feed tightly
enough to prevent mould, if the material
is green when pitted and if the lorries
used are driven through the pit after each
unloading.
Weeds and* the Law.
“Nabawa”: Recently the N.S.W. Coun-
cil of Advice on noxious weeds recom-
mended that Bathurst and Noogoora
burrs, skeleton weed, St. John’s and stink-
wort, Canada and saffron thistles, coca
leaf, opium poppy, lantana, blackberry,
hoary cress and bindweed be declared
noxious throughout the State. This list
will be submitted to shires and P.P.
Boards for approval and amendment.
Coca leaf and opium are in at the re-
quest of the Commonwealth, which thus
gets in early in case anyone wants to
start a drug trade.
The council comprises representatives
of the shires, P.P. Boards and Lands,
(Continued on next page.)


4038.
Here’s a boot that will
keep pace with you
No matter how
hard you work.
2716
There’s strength in every line of this Abbey Riding Boot. It’s made
to stand the strain of hard, solid wear without losing shape or comfort.
Its uppers are made from high-grade Black or Brown Calf skin, and
it has leather lining throughout.
Price, Black or Brown, 27/6.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY”
fd
For
MODERN
CRAFTSMEN
Thousands of workshops have found these
compact, efficient machines indispensable.
Inspect our range of “TAUCO” Electrically-
driven Tools unsurpassed for workshop
utility!
/TAUCO” 4in.
Precision Jointer, No. 290.
Patented swinging stop, dual-control handle,
2-way tilting fence, three high-speed knives.
Also available in 6in. size.
“TAUCO” Bin.
Circular Saw, No. 860.
Great capacity in front of the saw for cross-
cutting wide boards; rip-gauge extension gives
tremendous ripping capacity. Cuts 2Jin. thick,
llin. high, 18in. wide, 23in. front to back.
“TAUCO” 24in.
Scroll Saw, No. 1200.
Compact and competent for heavy or light
work. 23in. high, Win. wide, 35in. long.
Machined table Win. x Win.
“TAUCO” 14in.
Band Saw, No. 890.
The standard of value in its class! Enclosed
disc wheels, swinging table Win. x Win., big
capacity under the guides. 41in. high, 16in.
wide, 2oin. front to back.
Polders are available illustrating these machines; send
for one; or, better still, come and see the machines
at our showrooms.
M£Pfiersoi^)
Proprietary Limited
51 Bathurst Street, Sydney,
546 Collins Stree.t, Melbourne,
and at Adelaide and Perth.
■
SYDNtY
caan n
\<xVe(
OUCKLRND
W
UICLDNGTO
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
“AWATEA”
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2i DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc.
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
TTuT&TtZklvrL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder*
Price 3/6, post free.
For Sale.
SEEDS—Wim. Rye 6/- & 7/-, Perr 10/- bus.,
Sub. xd 1/4, Mt. B. 1/5. F’gt paid. All other
seed stocked. Best grades only. Write Haw-
thorne Bros. Pty., Ltd., Kerang, Victoria.
INCOME TAX RETURNS
are due again shortly.
Take advantage of the service offered by
THE PRIMARY PRODUCER’S ACCODWT BOOK
Have your return prepared by experts and gain the full
benefit of all deductions allowable, with many of which
you are no doubt not familiar.
The cost of the book, £l/1/-, includes the preparation
of your income-tax return.
Write to-day to
The Bulletin, Box 252188, Sydney,
and save money and worry.
Agriculture and Local Government De-
partments. It is to advise the Govern-
ment as to when the amending Noxious
Weeds Act shall become law, what weeds
shall be noxious (a) throughout the State,
( b ) in certain areas, (c) under certain con-
ditions, and {d) what control methods
should be adopted.
K. G. Carn, special weeds officer, has
made a survey of the State. He said
that, of about 140 varieties now listed
as among the more important noxious
weeds, not more than 40 would be pro-
scribed when the Act came into force,
the rest not being worth worrying about.
The Director of Agriculture said that
three years’ work had convinced experts
that pasture improvement and good
stock management, with reformed farm-
ing practices, were necessary. Many
farms previously infested have increased
greatly in value because the methods
recommended had not only wiped out
the weeds but had resulted in a greater
carrying capacity.
The committee will need luck. The
mere issuing of recommendations and
passage of Acts won’t cure the problem
of unoccupied Crown lands, abandoned
properties and deliberate offenders.
The L oc al Government Department is
to be the administrative authority, but
what it will do when one shire plumps
for outlawing, say, saffron thistle and
an adjoining one claims it is good sheep
feed remains to be seen, especially where
the landholder is in both shires. There
are many other bristly aspects. The
logical administrator is the Agricultural
Department. Its experts know all about
the weeds, and they know the farmers.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.”: See that the saddle-cloth is kept
free from burrs and lumps of sweaty
hair. Regular washings in warm, soapy
water keeps it in good order.
“M.L.W.”: When cutting budda or
gidya fencing posts use a slanting scarf
for both ends. There is less likelihood
ol cracking them, and they deflect water
better than with square ends.
“Karaway”: Ground peanuts (put
through the corn cracker) mixed with pol-
lard make a good mash for ducks and
turkeys. It quickens the fattening pro-
cess and gives a nice flavor to the poultry.
The nuts (shelled) may also be fed whole
with corn.
“Salmon Gumsl”: When putting in
unsplit fencing-posts in white-ant country
place the smaller ends in the ground.
They’ll hang out longer.
“O. W. Waireki”: To cure dog mange
rub the hound thoroughly with a thick
mixture of sulphur and equal parts of
kerosene and any light machine oil.
Repeat in three days. The tyke’s new
coat will be unusually glossy.
“Geelong”: A research department is
being added to the Gordon Technical
College (Geelong, Vic.) wool school.
W. R. Lang, who has been engaged
under a special grant from the Australian
Wool Board as research physicist in con-
junction with the W.A. Agricultural De-
partment, will take charge. It is hoped
that “the Gordon” will develop into a
conditioning house to determine moisture-
and oil-content of wool for transacting
parties, besides giving unbiased judgment
on other wool qualities. Instruction will
be provided for a few advanced students.
“Yeno Ham”: Choose a level, well-
drained patch for the potato pits. Empty
the potatoes between two poles parallel
on the ground, about four feet apart.
Form the tubers into a well-ridged heap,
thatch with straw and cover with sods
of earth, working from the ground up.
Beat the mound with the back of the
spade when the pit is finished. Cut a
drain around the base to carry off rain-
water. Sweated moisture will vanish if
the thatched pit is left uncovered by
earth for a week or two in dry weather.
“B-gar”: In a recent shipment of
English breeds from M.L. were some
Cheviots, the first of the mountain
breeds to enter Australia. Of little
value for crossing with merinos, Cheviot
ewes have earned a reputation for pro-
ducing the only recognised half-bred in
Britain. Sired by Border Leicester rams,
these ewes are in demand, being used
for mating with some of the Downs
breeds for production of early-maturing
fat lambs. In a few districts in Aus-
tralia, as in the M.L. hill country,
Cheviots might prove of value. At the
draft ewe sales in Britain first cross
Cheviot-B. Leicester ewes invariably
realise shillings per head more than any
other breed.
“Stockwell”: “Bull-ant Bill” (B.
9/3/’3B) insists upon sharpening each
tooth set towards the saw doctor. This is
unsatisfactory, as one would be working
blind. The tooth should be set away
instead of towards the man with the file.
He also advises holding the file level.
This will do for hardwood, but for the
needle-points for softwoods the file must
be pushed upwards and away, the angle
depending on the sharpness of the point
required.
“Rockless”: At the cut-out of crutch-
ing the expert cleaned up the handpieces
under a jet from the steam engine. When
opened up a few months later worn parts
were rusted, the tension-pin sleeves were
corroded and stuck fast and had to be
repolished, and fulcrum and tension-pin
cups were also rusted and pitted. It is
all right to steam-clean machines so long
as they are oiled afterwards, but if there
is no time to do this leave them in the
grease.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What conditions are necessary for rearing
Angora rabbits ? (2) Is the fur of much value !
—59164.
(1) In N.S.W. Angora rabbits can be kept
only on premises approved and licensed by the
Dept, of Agriculture in the Counties of Cum-
berland and Camden. (2) There is no open
market for Angora wool. Angora-rabbit
breeders sell their wool privately, and usually
at a fair profit.
* * * *
How can I destroy tick weevil in 20 bags of
maize stacked in a shed ? —59407.
Fumigate with carbon bisulphide. The bags
should be placed in a gastight room or shed
and three pints (51b.) of carbon bisulphide for
each 1000 cubic feet of space in the room
poured on sacks on top of the maize. Keep
room sealed for 24 hours. Carbon bisulphide
is highly inflammable, and all lights must be
kept away while the fumigation is in progress.
* * * $
A 20-year-old draught mare rearing a five-
months foal, and grazing on lucerne and natural
grass, has developed a lip and tongue swelling,
with tongue hanging out'on the left side. Eye
and ear are affected on left side —ear out of
control and eye appears blind. Cause and cure ?
—59236.
The mare is affected with facial paralysis due
to an injury to the facial nerve. There is no
cure, but a mild blister of one part of biniodide
of mercury to eight parts vaseline to the left
side of the face and below the ear may ease the
animal’s condition.


A ROPE
FOR EVERY
PURPOSE
/ /; &
imRIH
■
r.
&
v * : --x-
Lrrs
CZ*** v-~~ *^w»»ff^S^Swti
UxwwWiMrti
*^*e*%3*i&&&*&&&
HR ' ••:
SH&*
*«##*&**^
m
m B
1
«!£tS£!!!S
***
'’ N "'' ;: -•> '5.,:... - ,•-, :v Stag
mm
i
i
KfcftjjjS
-
wraWira
MS
M
SSfei»rfwS><Sie>B*&
:v:>
■
&&&e»wfcB»w
Ml
\
Srf
3d
*>S
*
mb m
i ■’>»"’:
M
1
■
m
UrSIH
-i -
f&i fPWJ|: m< : 3
I I
. ,|;>' ;' '}■ '”|
„ . #* |
’<«Sfct ' ? ««. j& i m
•* v% .
Mm—
mmm ?
««»»*■«?
: 1:
Hi 1
Hi
MS
iJaiPffga
K .
Ml
■■l H
H I
\ Its
ps-wsi
mill
..>> I
&»*££
:
«li
f
■
1:1.
I
■
Mwraga
»*§
:?".' ■-V
wSMmms
:. Mi
mSSSM
mm
n
gH
V£
:
SSi
■■ 1 . - : ' -
v -*•*>' #;
*> ,■*,
;«^£2gfl
■■■i
nil
■: 81 ( •:■ ■. :' | - | H
Wlmlmlmm
Sta©
's-:> '■
wS Smni
am *
«MSa B—
j?<. 1
smaTOßroamiSMMßa.. - -:- <- .?/y .. ;
■■ : ' ' ■ : . : : ' ,
:. ;■.■■: ■' ~,? S: l '-:'- .* | :■ : ,- ;:. ;i: ; ; v: ;;. :
:^'- ; 1-y >; 1
if
mm
II
: mm
|WMMS«»WPW»
■
, .■
:'■■■■
SS 5K&552
* •><
M
THE BEST THAT MONEY CAN BUY
SCOTT’S
Renown” Brand
<*
Manufactured by J. SCOTT PTY., LTD.,
163 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Works:
MASCOT , N.S.W.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart. Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S* School oS Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
Th£ service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
By experienced typist, Sydney, typing of any
description, manuscripts, envelopes.—933s.
Active returned soldier, N.S.W., used to well-
sinking and -repairing, windmills, engines and
pumps of all kinds, wants employment.—9333.
Young man (20), Melbourne, passed inter-
mediate Sydney High, five years’ general clerical
exp., costing, shorthand, typing, wants posi-
tion in Sydney.—94o3.
Miner (31), 10 years’ exp. W.A. goldmines,
underground supervisor’s and first-aid certifi-
cates, wants position as shift boss or on con-
tract mining, New Guinea or Fiji. Refs—937B.
Englishman (28), exp. in mixed farming—
wheat, sheep and cattle —tractors and horses, a
car-driver and well educated, present position
for 12 years, wants position with responsibility
anywhere in Australia or the Islands. —9386.
To exchange No. 1 second series “Kia-Ora
Coo-ee,” published Egypt 1918, for No. 2 first
series.—93s6.
Information Sought.
What assistance does the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment grant to aero clubs? —94ol.
The Commonwealth Government grants
assistance to the clubs by providing hangar
accommodation, the free use of aerodromes,
suitable clubhouses which are leased to the
clubs and bonuses for each pupil trained to a
standard that will enable him to obtain a private
(“A”) pilot’s license. Bonuses are also paid
to the clubs in respect of the renewal of pilots’
licenses of club members, and each club re-
ceives a maintenance grant and an establish-
ment grant conditional upon a prescribed
number of aircraft being maintained in an air-
worthy condition and a prescribed amount of
flying being performed each year. Included
in the aircraft fleets of the several clubs are a
number of D.H.60 (Moth) machines which
were originally lent by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, but have now been handed over to
the clubs.
* * * *
What is the difference between “old system
title” and “Torrens title”? —9284.
Under the “old system” of title a land-
owner had to produce a mass of documents
showing his rights of ownership back to the
original grant from the Crown before an in-
tending new owner could safely commit him-
self to a purchase. Under the Real Property
Act, 1900, incorporating previous legislaton
back to 1862, this mass of documentary evidence
is embodied in a single certificate of title, popu-
larly known as Torrens title from the name of
the (S.A.) originator of the system. Under this
Act. in addition to the simplification of the
system transfer, an assurance fund is estab-
lished to meet compensation to any person de-
prived of land or of any estate or interest in
land in consequence of fraud, error, omission or
misdescription in any certificate of title. Also
it is provided that land not now subject to the
provisions of the Act may on application be
brought under it.
* % %
Consequent upon the failure of the State of
N. S. Wales to provide certain interest payments
on its public debts in accordance with the
Financial Agreement, what Act did the Com-
monwealth Parliament pass to meet the situa-
tion ? Did N. S. Wales contest the Act in the
High Court ? If so, on what grounds and what
was the result ? —9399.
The Commonwealth Parliament passed a
Financial Agreement Enforcement Act (No. 3 of
1932). The State of N. S. Wales attacked the
validity of this Act as being ultra vires the
Commonwealth Parliament and an infringement
of State rights in respect to the appropriation
of public moneys for specific services. The
High Court by a majority decision of four to
two held that this was a valid law and dis-
missed the action, subsequently refusing leave
to appeal to the Privy Council.
* * * *
Number of full-blood and half-caste abo-
riginals in each of the Australian States ? —9398.
By census June 30, 1936, full-bloods: N.S.W.,
847: Vic 55; Q’land, 12,337; South Aus.,
1543; W.A., 22,047; Tas., 1; Northern Terri-
tory, 16,846; total full-bloods, 53,698. Half-
castes: N.S.W., 9777; Vic., 586; Q’land, 5785;
South Aus., 1814; W.A., 4226; Tas., 270;
Northern Territory, 884; Federal Capital Ter-
ritory, 79; total half-castes, 23,461.
* * * *
Number of films imported during 1936 and
the countries of their origin ? How many were
passed by the Commonwealth Film Censor ?
9400.
Imported films dealt with by the Censorship
were: 1518 films of 3,392,117 ft. passed without
eliminations, 147 films of 727,691 ft. passed after
eliminations, and 19 films of 119,146 ft. rejected
in first instance, making a total of 1684 films.
of 4,238,954 ft. (one copy). The countries of
origin were: U.S.A., 1084 films of 3,094,474 ft ;
United Kingdom, 489 films of 1,010,181 ft ;
and 111 films of 134,299 ft. from other coun-
l(ies - , The foregoing figures relate to standard
size films (35 millimetres). There were also im-
ported during 1936 1182 miniature films (16
millimetres and 9.5 millimetres) of 438,751 ft.
* * * *
What salaries were paid to the Governor-
General and State Governors or Lieut.-Gov-
ernors in Australia during last year for which
figures are available? —9396.
Commonwealth, Governor-General £9882;
N.S.W., Governor £2796, Lieut.-Governor
£1463; Vic., Governor £5000; Q’land, Gov-
ernor £2850; S. Aus., Governor £5000; W.A.,
Lieut.-Governor £2000; Tas., Governor £2625.
Figures are for the year 1935-36.
* * * *
__ What goods did Australia import from New
Caledonia during the last five years? —932s.
Imports of New Caledonian origin are not
shown in full detail. In 1932-33 they amounted
to £3542 (hides and skins £2754, tallow
£229); in 1933-34 to £4293 (hides and skins
£3251, tallow £664); in 1934-35 to £5557
(hides and skins £3583, alloys £1470); in 1935-
36 to £11,855 (hides and skins £4947, tallow
£9ll, ores and minerals £4773); in 1936-37
to £50,358 (hides and skins £25,332, greasy
wool £9473, ores and minerals £12,245, shells
in natural state £2555).
*'* * *
Excise duty paid in Australia on (1) various
kinds of spirits and (2) beer for the year ending
June 30, 1937.?—9320.
(1) Brandy £242,586, gin £321,816, whisky
£195,309, rum £472,474, liqueurs £6659, spirits
for industrial or scientific purpose £140,621,
spirits for fortifying wine £261,084, spirits for
making vinegar £1847, spirits for the manufac-
ture of scents, etc., £58,239, amylic alcohol and
fusel oil £57, concentrated grape must £2142,
spirits not elsewhere included £370; total
£1,703,204. (2) Beer £6,147,820.
* * * *
(1) Prospects of joining the permanent army
of Australia? (2) Qualifications and rates of
pay? (3) Where to apply? —9lB2.
Applications may be submitted to the Base
Commandant in the capital city of any State in
the Commonwealth, who will furnish all neces-
sary information as to prospects of enlistment
and standards required in the various units.
The minimum rate of pay on enlistment is at
present £l9O per annum. Deductions are made
for rations and quarters, and all members are
required to contribute to the superannuation
fund according to age on enlistment.
* * * *
(1) Has a kite ever been known to lift a
man ? (2) Any literature dealing with the sub-
ject ?— 9276.
(1) Yes; Lawrence Hargrave lifted himself
clear of the ground by means of four kites
attached to a rope. Hargrave seated himself in
a sling attached to the lower kite, which was
secured to an anchorage by means of 42ft. of
rope. When the wind freshened to 18.6 m.p.h.
Hargrave was lifted clear of the ground.
In 1894 Capt. B. F. S. Baden-Powell, of the
Scots Guards, also succeeded in lifting a man
by means of a large kite 36ft. high. In later
experiments he used five or six smaller kites with
improved results. (2) Bulletin No. 19, The
Aeronautical Work of Lawrence Hargrave,
by T. C. Roughley, Is., from Technical Museum,
Sydney.
* * * *
School commencing and leaving age in
various Australian States and M.L. ? Is such
education free ? —9OOO.
In N. S. Wales and Tas. the compulsory
school attendance age is from seven to 14, and
in the other States of the Commonwealth from
six to 14. In M.L. the compulsory age is from
seven to 14. In all States and M.L. primary
education is free, whilst in N. S. Wales, Tas.
and W.A. secondary education also is free.
* * * *
(1) A few particulars concerning Capt. E. W.
Isdell, whose regiment was stationed in Aus-
tralia in the early days? (2) After whom were
the Isdell River and Isdell Range in W.A .
named, and who found them? —9l74.
(1) Captain Edward William Isdell, of the
99th Regiment, which was located in Tas. from
185° t° 1858, had previously been stationed in
N.S.W. In 1844 he was an ensign in the
regiment at Newcastle, and on October 17,
1844, the Sydney “Morning Herald” gave the
name of Ensign William Isdell as a member of
the Norfolk Island Commission. (2) The Isdell
River, in the Kimberley district of Westralia,
was discovered and named by the explorer
Frank Hann in 1896, and he wrote: “The
big creek I have named the Isdell after Mr
Isdell of the Nullagine.” Possibly Hann
named the rarge also, though it is not men-
tioned in the account of Hann’s exploring ex-
pedition published in the Proceedings of the
Royal Society of Queensland, volume 16, 1900.
Nullagine is a goldmining settlement at the
head of the De Grey River, in the north-west
section of W.A.
* * * *
/ am forwarding a specimen of what I am
told is the castor-oil plant. Can you identify
it and furnish some particulars? —93ss.
The specimen forwarded by you has been de-
termined as Ricinus communis (castor-oil plant).
This species is a naturalised weed in many
parts of N. S. Wales, and the seeds yield
oil which is used for medicinal and other pur-
poses. There are, however, quite a number of
horticultural forms which are grown mainly
for foliage effects. Some of these, such as
yours, have rich red coloring which makes them
very attractive. The seeds, though yielding the
castor oil of commerce, are poisonous, as the
residual oil cake contains a small amount of
the deadly toxic albumin ricin. The naturalised
form of this plant has been declared a noxious
weed in a number of districts of N. S. Wales
The species probably came originally from
Africa, but is now widely naturalised in the
warm parts of the globe. It grows from Bft.
to 15ft. in height.
* * * *
Particulars of one-act play tournament being
conducted by Bryant’s Playhouse, Sydney ? —■
9340.
A prize of £5 ss. is being offered for the
best one-act play submitted for the one-act play
tournament being organised. Each play entered
will be submitted to a judging committee, the
best of the entries will then be produced at
Bryant’s Playhouse, and from these presenta-
tions the final choice will be made. Conditions
are : (1) All plays must be in one-act form.
(2) Only plays which have not been published
or professionally produced will be considered.
An amateur performance will not disqualify.
(3) Plays must be submitted under a nom de
plume, and the name and address of the entrant
enclosed in a sealed envelope accompanying
the entry. (4) Each play must be accompanied
by an entry fee of 55., and must reach Miss
Beryl Bryant, at Bryant’s Playhouse, St. Peter’s-
lane, Darlinghurst, before June 30, 1938.
H: % H*
What are the points of an Australian ter-
rier, and how to tell if a thoroughbred ? At
what age is he full grown ? What is the usual
price paid for a six-months-old puppy? Are
they suitable as household pets? Should the
feet and ears be fairly large? —93ls.
An Australian terrier should be rather low
to ground, with a longer body than is usually
found in terriers. His color should be reddish-
tan or tan and a steely-blue. He has a foxy
face with erect or semi-erect ears. The coat
must not be soft, except on the top of the
head. He is full grown at about 18 months.
Prices vary, according to quality and breeding,
from about one to five guineas. They are
usually a game dog, but not provocative.
They "are quite suitable for household pets. The
feet and ears are not large, both being propor-
tionate.
* * * *
What is fireclay? Will any fine clay do, and
what treatment of it would be necessary ? —9329.
It is a clay containing a high percentage of
silica or alumina, with an attendant high fusi-
bility. Ordinary clay contains alkalies which
are fusible at a low temperature. There is no
economical method of separating the alkali con-
tent from an ordinary clay. Test your fine clay
for fusibility.
* * * *
What is the “Kreutzer” Sonata?— 933l.
Beethoven’s Op. 47, for piano and violin,
dedicated to his friend Rodolphe Kreutzer,
violinist and composer. Tolstoy discovered in
this work an intense eroticism (probably not in-
tended by its rather ascetic composer), and
wrote a novel on the subject. The sonata was
first performed in 1803 by Beethoven (at the
piano) and the violinist Bridgetower, and later
became very popular.
* * * *
A few particulars concerning the Free City
of Danzig ? —9397.
Under articles 100 and 102 of the Treaty of
Versailles, the City of Danzig with the sur-
rounding territory (constituting a total area of
about 726 square miles, with a population esti-
mated at 400,000) was set up as a Free City,
under the protection of the League of Nations,
Poland undertaking to conduct its Foreign
Affairs. The Free City was constituted
November 15, 1920, with an executive Senate
of 12 members and an elected Legislature of
72 members. The harbor is administered by a
mixed board of Poles and Danzigers under a
neutral President, and the League of Nations
is represented by a resident High Commissioner.
In January, 1922, the Free City entered the
Polish Customs Union. The principal exports
are coal, timber, cereals, cement, bacon, eggs,
mineral oils and sugar. The language of the
State is German.
* * * *
I want to stock a Q’land fresh-water dam,
varying from five to twelve feet deep and about
40 acres in area, with fish. What fish would
be suitable, and where could they be procured ?
—9207.
The most suitable fish would be golden perch,
fry or ova of which might be procurable from
the N.S.W. Inland Fisheries Department. If
not, it would be necessary to procure fish for
transplantation from a stream or lagoon in the
district. In that case it would be necessary to
apply for permission to use a net for the pur-
pose, as the only authorised method of taking
fresh-water fish in Q’land is a handline with
not more than two hooks attached.
* * * *
(1) Are there any restrictions on an Australian
landing in England? (2) Would it be possible to
work my passage over, and, if so, where should
I apply ? —9266.
(1) There are no restrictions on landing pro-
vided the person is not suffering from any in-
fectious disease or otherwise is in a condition
which may render him liable to become a
charge on the Government. It is, of course,
necessary to have a passport. (2) Chances are
remote, but you could canvass the various
shipping cos.
* * * *
(1) How to synchronise the flashlight equip-
ment with the shutter on a Mentor press
camera? (2) Where can l obtain the apparatus,
and cost ? —9334.
(1) It is not possible to describe the equip-
ment in these columns, and in any case the
work will have to be entrusted to a skilled
mechanic. (2) From Harringtons, Ltd., 386
George-street, Sydney ; cost between £1 and £5,
depending upon fittings.
-* * * *
Is it true that in the “Ajax Northrup” electric
furnace a solenoid carrying an alternating cur-
rent induces eddy currents in the metal under
treatment, causing same to melt ? —9296.
This is correct. In any induction furnace
the electrical energy in the solenoid is converted
directly into thermal energy in the metal to be
heated, owing to its resistance to the current flow.
Such a furnace is, in reality, a current trans-
former wherein the secondary is formed by the
mass of molten metal.
Does Anybody Know?
History of the Blue Bell Inn, which once stood
in Erskine-street, Sydney?—9ls6.
Brief Answers.
Electro: Please send name and full postal
address to the Service Department....
C.W.G.: Write secretary, Australian Goat
Society, Box 3010NN, G.P.0., Sydney....
M. : The Maelstrom is a strong current run-
ning past the south end of the island of Mos-
kenaes, one of the Lofoten group on the west
coast of Norway. Though dangerous in cer-
tain states of wind and tide, the tales of ships
being swallowed in this whirlpool are fables.
Edgar Allan Poe’s short story dealing with the
subject is purely imaginary J.R.: Prepared
fish biscuits (obtainable from aquarium dealers)
and chopped-up worms are satisfactory food
for carp. The quantity must be found by
experiment; it should be so regulated that little
or no food is left uneaten... .F.P.: Troops
from the 9th and 10th Battalions, A.1.F., were
the first Australians to land at Anzac. Impos-
sible to say who was the first man. Captain
Graham Butler (9th Batt.) and Lieut. Talbot
Smith (10th Batt.) were the first officers to
reach the shore... .L.S.: The echidna or native
porcupine is classified Tachyglossus aculeatus.
. ...E.8.: Surest way to get rid of “jalap”
creeper is to dig it out by the roots, making
sure that every bulb is removed from the soil.
If this is too arduous, the young plants might
be sprayed with a solution of sodium chlorate
(lib. to a gallon of water). It would prob-
ably be necessary to make subsequent sprayings
to kill new growth... .W.W.: Frank Gardiner,
the bushranger, after serving 10 years of Ins
three consecutive sentences, amounting to 32
years, was released on July 20, 1874. A con-
dition was that he left N. S. Wales. This he
did the following week, going to China and
later to San Francisco, where he kept a hotel
for many years... .J.D.: The totalisator was
first used in Maoriland at Marton, in the
North Island, on January 1, 1880 N.S.:
Applicants for the invalid pension are examined
by a Government doctor to ascertain whether
they are totally and permanently incapacitated.
. ...F.N.8.: (1) Some years of experience of
both journalism and business would be neces-
sary to found and edit successfully a better-
class country newspaper, though there are cases
where exceptional men without experience have
succeeded. (2) Depends on the size of the
town and whether there is any direct com-
petition; you couldn’t do much on less than
£2000... .C.W.L.: “That Day at Boiling
Downs” was written by Jack Mathieu, “Skeeta”
by Barcroft Boake, and “The Hairy Man of
Koorawatha” by Tom Freeman—all three are
printed in The Bulletin Reciter, obtainable
from the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney, Is. 3d.
. ...T.C.: Artistic and Decorative Stencilling,
by Audsley; Stencils and Stencilling, by Duthie;
Practical Stencil Work, by Mitchell... .E.D.:
The first Papuan postage stamps were issued in
Jan., 1901. Denominations and colors were as
follows: green; Id., red; 2d., violet; 2-id.,
blue; 4d., brown; 6d., green; Is., orange.
All stamps of the issue have black centres and
rosette watermarks N.S.: Yes, facilities are
afforded to accredited amateurs for research
work at the Commonwealth Solar Observatory,
Canberra. Apply to the Director, stating quali-
fications and the research suggested... .P.R.:
The President of the Commonwealth Senate,
unlike the Speaker of the House of Reps., is
allowed an ordinary vote so that the State
which he represents may not be deprived of
his vote. To confer on him a casting vote as
well would give his State more than equitable
representation G.S.G.: Application for a
transfer of an old-age pension should be made
to the postmaster at the pay office where the
pension is now collected C.H.: Most likely
buyers of scenic posters are the tourist and rail-
way publicity departments of the various States
and the steamship companies. Commissions
are generally given to established artists or to
firms of art printers D.M.: Lily Brayton
was born at Hindley, Lancashire, England, June
23, 1878. She first toured Australia in 1909 as
Katharine in “The Taming of the Shrew,”
Portia in “The Merchant of Venice,” Mistress
Ford in “The Merry Wives of Windsor,” Rosa-
lind in “As You Like It,” Julian in “The
Honeymoon” and Desdemona in “Othello”
T.J.R.: A fixative for charcoal and soft-pencil
drawings can be made by adding white shellac
to methylated spirits. A prepared fixative can
be bought from leading stationers at 9d. per
bottle ; spray diffusers, same price... .C. 8.: The
Federal Government contributed £60,000 to the
Japanese earthquake fund in 1923 K.T.: As
far as is known, no aboriginal population ever
occupied Lord Howe Island. No implements,
rock carvings or any other traces of aboriginal
residence have been discovered... .R.S.: The
Loch Ard went ashore at Curdie’s Inlet, 27
miles from Cape Otway (Vic.), on June 1, 1878.
Out of 52 people aboard, only two were saved,
a young apprentice and a girl passenger whom
he rescued A.P.: Probably your wistaria is
in the wrong position. It should be planted
in a southerly aspect shaded from the hot winds
and sun as much as possible, and should not
be cut back... .S.H.S.: The “sweet gum,”
Liquidambar styraciflua, sometimes known as
“balsam-tree,” is grown in many districts of
N. S. Wales. No other species is known. The
best-known balsam-tree, Balsamodendron, does
not grow in Australia J.M.W.: Adam
Lindsay Gordon sat in the S.A. Parliament for
Victoria; he was elected in March, 1865, by
the anti-squatter interests, defeating the then
Attorney-General and bringing about the down-
fall of the Blyth Ministry... .E. 8.: Use “a”
when the “h” is sounded, as in “history” or
“harvest,” and “an” when the “h” is silent,
as in “hour” or “heir” 8.N.F.: The “last
man and last shilling” phrase was coined by
Andrew Fisher, then leader of the Federal
Labor party, in a speech at Colac (Vic.) on
July 31, 1914.... J.J.8.: The phrase “Procras-
tination is the thief of time” was coined by
Rev. Edward Young (1684-1765). It appears
in his Night Thoughts. .. .R.H.: St. Luke’s,
Liverpool (N.S.W.), was built 1819, opened
1824; St. John’s (new church), Parramatta,
opened 1856; St. Thomas’s, Port Macquarie,
opened 1828; St. Thomas’s, Mulgoa, opened
1838; St. John’s, Camden, opened 1849....
C.F.: Trillion denotes in England a million
million millions, but in America, as in France,
a million millions, equivalent to the English
billion.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton. Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
1
: Mtp«
t C« C ’
'
WARATIH
MOTOR
PI
RIT
c
\
W
l\ *
■1
V
„ JtU** •
t»#.. O • nx|tS
\s
\W£
tfvoV* W.
u c\o^
** '&**£&
o \\ b e ° s \V xS o'f ‘ ,. 5
°°. c °Vs^
; .
ll§g
6
6
o
s^t
troro
SP'**
o'°
m
I!
***
m
m
<*
■■ ;
A MIXED GRILL.
“Gumsucker”: Ballarat’s centenary
revives a family memory of one of the
pioneer foundries, the Union. It started
without even a steam-engine to provide
blast for the cupola furnace. A big
wooden wheel was constructed from
which a greenhide belt drove the home-
made fan; on casting days soldiers of
the garrison turned the wheel for a
shilling in the hand and reasonable
access to a bucket of beer. From
the furnace metal was drawn with which
all the cast-iron parts of a steam-engine
were made, the smithy attending to the
wrought-iron piston and connecting-rods
and the crankshaft. No lathe was avail-
able big enough to bore the cylinder, so
that operation was done by hand, the cast-
ing being held vertical and a cutting head
travelling downwards, being rotated by
a long pole which the apprentice boys
slowly walked round and round. All the
other working parts, slide-valve, etc., were
trued up with hammer and chisel and
finished with the file. Writer’s father
did all the turning and fitting on that
first engine.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Australia’s new fisheries-
research vessel Warreen, built at Wil-
liamstown (Vic.), is 82ft. long, 19ft. beam,
and of 132 tons burden. She has enough
tank capacity to run her 215-h.p. Diesel
engine from Melbourne to Broome
(W.A.) without refuelling. Depth indi-
cators, which will also show shoals of
fish in intermediate depths, and two-
way radio for communication with a
fish-spotting ’plane are among her equip-
ment, as are current meters and water-
sampling gear operating to 1000 fathoms.
Her net outfit ranges from the finest silk
plankton nets to the first purse seine in
Australia, a huge affair used in Cali-
fornia for taking whole shoals of tuna
at one sweep. A shore biological station
for investigating and collating the ship’s
results forms part of the organisation.
* * * *
“Koura”: As for slang (B. 13/4/’3B),
I saw exactly the opposite process intro-
duced into a Maoriland news-sheet.
Endeavoring to cultivate a reputa-
tion for high-mindedness, the heads
issued the edict that no slang and no
doubtful words of any sort were to be
used. For one thing, the word “bed-
room” was never to sully the pages. “A
certain room” was the circumlocution to
be used. It always sounded to me a
great deal more sinister than the plain
statement.
* * * *
“Snoop”: Lock’s hydroplaning admiral
(B. 23/3/’3B) would find better sport
behind the latest in British torpedo boats.
A revolutionary addition to naval craft,
it’s a neat little vessel designed mainly for
speed and capable of skimming along
half out of the water, speedboat fashion,
in spite of a thoroughly sturdy build. * It
can let loose a torpedo when travelling
at over 50 m.p.h.
* * * *
Concert-goers of a decade or so ago
remember the Freddie Shipmans. They
used to bring concert artists to Aus-
tralia, and among their stars were Alt-
house and Middleton. The two are pay-
ing Sydney a visit, but unfortunately
Mrs. Shipman has been ill ever since her
arrival.
* * * *
“Dope”: British athletic circles are
having a fine old barge over the growth
of the drug habit among athletes, es-
pecially Soccer footballers. It is alleged
that more than one club manager now
regularly doses his professional team for
a League fixture, benzedrine, described as
a powerful stimulant, being the popular
pill. Even tennis-players are said to be
taking the stuff.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
A.N.C.: Something there, but it’s too long
and needs more careful handling... .C.H.:
“Safe Custody” might pass a daily C.L.T.:
Not bad, but too slight R.C.: Just an echo.
M.M.: Artificial A.W.F.: Doesn’t
make a yarn J.A.F.: Mild... .C.J.8.: As
you said, “We felt the urge” M. 8.:
Sodden K.8.D.: Why not try to place it
nearer home? A.C.F.: Not for u5....8.P.:
Might find a niche elsewhere J.D.V.: It’s
hot only blunt, it’s pointless F.8.C.: First
of the autumn batch of suicides A.W.:
Meaningless D.F.S.: Anaemic beller-
drammer J.T.C.: Best bit of detection in
that batch is the supposition that we mightn’t
like any of ’em P. 8.5.: Unable to read
that faint pencil scrawl 8.F.H.: Not very
interesting N.D.T.: Advise you not to
waste any more stamps on that effort....
G. : Resignedly awaiting further contribu-
tions H.J.R.: Sketches aren’t bad, but other
stuff is piffle 8.T.D.: Humor isn’t in your
line... .T.P.C.: Pay more attention to detail.
V.T.: Idea is lost in a maze of words
P.D.C.: Have seen them before L.D.K.:
Best you’ve done to date H.N.F.: Fair
enough, but it arrived too late G.8.T.:
Flapper stuff J.T.R.: Can’t use any of
those, but wouldn’t mind glancing through
some others L. 8.: You’ve wandered out
of your depth H.D.C.: Whither next?
D.S.P.: Get in some solid practice and try us
in a couple of years... .F.T.N.: Half a dozen
such as those arrive late every Easter
C.R.T.: Try a magazine that uses yarns of that
length... .8.F.M.: Too technical G.L.Y.:
Interest too local K.F.: Five historical in-
accuracies on the first page C.P.D.: Office
boy solved it before the second murder
H. : They’ll come home if you’ll pay their
fares... .T.M.: Possibilities badly handled
C.V.F.: No use for moonstruck calf-lurv
1.L.F.: Fairy stories not for us G.S.F.
T.P.: Not quite... .J.D.D.: Dog verse
has bite; like to see some more in that style.
....C.S.: Mountain seems real, but it’s hardly
Parnassus.... R.G.: No dawns, please....
A.J.D.: Those manuscripts need a bath....
“L.G.”: Pan doesn’t sizzle S.D’A.E.: Con-
dense M.K.: Good point... .Q.D., A.L.T.,
T.R.: Lightweights....T.E.McC.: Liked the
red-pencil border round it N.C.: Disarm-
ing, unfortunately... .J.H.: Amusing, but
improper... .Tuum Est; Precisely... .N.S.:
Prose printed as verse is still prose W.D.:
“To say the least”:—
To instil fear into an innocent mind
Is an act, to say the least, unkind.
G.C.B.: Not that one... .S.H.C.: Do
something about the finish and it should stand
a chance.... H.J.C.H.: Scrappy... .E.W.: No.
Why so much death lately?
M.H.. It doesn t stick... .H.S. i Not a grin
there C.J.R.: “The Rolling Stone” didn’t
gather anything here... .P.D.T.: That sancti-
monious swagman is an old acquaintance, and
not one we like... .J.G.: The old lady needs
a lot of care to help her see the distance....
L.S.: Just another borderliner E.V.S.:
You re persistent, but why not try something
new?... .F.E.P.: Can’t say we’ve ever been
attracted by “the sullen symphony of a sough-
ing wind.” Anyway, what’s it like? M.T.:
You’re getting closer. Keep writing about
things you know... .M.C.8.: You want our
“honest opinion.” Hopeless J.P.: And so
is yours... .K.T.: Try it on a daily.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.T.F.: Figures look as though they were
constructed from a few stray pieces of wire-
9
netting D.D.: We, too, thought it a fine
joke when we printed it C.T.: Scratches
W.S.: Your angular females need rebuilding and
the gag has a musty odor P.E.S.: Hard to
say which is worse—the cattle-dog or the human
freak on the tree-stump... .8.R.: If you keep
on at the rate you’re going you might see
print towards the end of the twentieth century.
W.M.: We’ve declared it a close season
for that particular drunk gag... .E.E.P,: It
should score a hit with a temperance rag
W.K.N.: Linework needs strengthening
A.M.T.: Can’t detect any resemblance to their
subjects in those caricatures F.G.: Abo.-
boxer-and-white-hope gag can’t stage a
comeback here R.M.: It’s no use; a fine
pen on that type of board 8.D.: Suggest
you attend an art school... .M.A.: Postman is
now staggering beneath that load of inartistic
corpses.... H.L.J.: You appear to have sent us
a corset advertisement by mistake... .K.H.:
Couldn’t get the point of that large and
muddled cartoon... .G.S.P.: You blithely dis-
‘‘The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
regard the law of perspective and draw all your
figures out of proportion N.C.: This week’s
most dismal effort A.G.: No space for the
artist who draws Joe Lyons looking like a six-
foot matinee idol J.J.: Spend a few days at
the zoo and you might learn what a giraffe
looks like C. 8.: No desire to buy picture
of squabble between parson and deformed
gravedigger F. 8.: Gags must at least be
cheery... .L.H.: Sorry to turn away the swag-
man and the pup in the billycan, but both were
too wretchedly drawn J.C.: Drawings do
not live up to the high opinion in the covering
letter... .M. 8.: Goldfish passed muster;
not so drunk trying to feed him
H.D.: No, we wouldn’t print it —not even
if it was drawn on the starched-shirt front of
the Prime Minister.


STOCK,
WOOL
AND
INSURANCE
mm
■M
■HMIRIi
r «iWMw»yyTyr * l
MS
■
.-mmm
? n
:
•1 ijjatr' f ’
■ :
mm
*;» v
m
iiP^
H :
m
Hgg
MERCHANDISE,
SHIPPING
AND
MOTORS
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED
{lncorporated in England)
Place their services at the disposal of all clients and friends
visiting Sydney, and extend a cordial invitation to call at
their Head Office,
15 BENT STREET, SYDNEY
Dalgety’s sales of wool for the season 1936-37 were 567,449 bales—
approximately one-sixth of the total quantity sold in Australasia.
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
XI.
October 28, 1916, was the date of the
conscription referendum, and October
28, 1916, was Les Durkin’s birthday,
But that aspiring pugilist, now heavy-
weight as well as middleweight champion
of Australia, was not on hand to cele-
brate j t
Two days before he turned 21 and the
electors turned conscription down,
Durkin and his “manager,” a Mr.
Hoolan, had stowed away aboard an
American tramp, much as the notorious
“Yankee Sullivan” and his confederate
had done 70 years before, except that the
crew of the tramp were privy to the
Durkin-Hoolan enterprise and that Stock-
ton, not Sydney, was the point of depar-
ture. Moreover, though Durkin and
Hoolan left in breach of a regulation of
Mr. Pew’s all-embracing War Precautions
Act, they were not escaping convicts.
Durkin was, in fact, a clean-living lad
who never neglected his “duties” and was
devoted to his parents. They had been
hideously poor, and most of his consider-
able ring earnings had gone in making
things comfortable for them. But his
/very genius with the gloves and the
rewards it brought had concentrated on
him a smouldering dislike and envy which
lesser bruisers who had remained civilians
were spared.
Why (it was said) didn’t Durkin enlist?
He had been a military trainee, and if he
was fit to fight at the Coliseum he was
fit to fight in France or Turkey—far more
so than many youngsters of 20 who were
serving. What right had this Durkin
to be making pots of money in Austra-
lian rings when hundreds of thousands of
his fellow-Australians, putting all
thoughts of money aside, were facing the
enemy?
The young man had press sympathisers
who pleaded that while he was under age
he was not his own master. He himself
said again and again that he meant to
volunteer; and once, in an expansive
moment, he talked of putting up £lOOO
as a guarantee that he would be m camp
within six months.
A he offer was ignored by the authori-
des and sneered at by unfriendly news-
papers and the people they influenced.
As O me went on and the need for rein-
forcements giew, the bewildered Durkin
became an Issue.
The Would-to-Godders were against
him to a man. “Why Doesn t Durkin
Go?” wrote “Pro Bono Publico” to a
score of edit °rs. ‘His Mother Won’t Let
Him” was the answering headline in a
sheet wfa ich all Would-to-Godders read. ,
In l ess unsober journals and circles it
was argued that Durkin’s refusal to join
the army was in itself trifling compared
with the effect of the Durkin boom on
other non-starters, particularly those who
attended his fights,
There was something in that, for, war
or no war, the champion continued to
draw enraptured crowds. In his pro-
gress towards manhood, he had grown
amazingly in strength and skill. In a
return match with Jimmy Carrie he had
simply played with that handsome war-
rior. Eddie Rafferty, one of whose
“friends,” a Kentucky colonel, had
spread the news in the U.S.A. that the
first Durkin-Rafferty fight was fixed, had
at a second meeting been beaten to the
floor in eight rounds, after taking such
dreadful punishment that he was never
any good again.
A Greek, a Rumanian and a German
had been brought from the U.S.A. by the
Coliseum management, and all three
would have suffered the same experience
as Rafferty if Les had let himself go.
I n two k°ffi innocuous for the
Australian, the Greek was permitted to
last 20 rounds. At the earnest solicita-
tion of Rafferty, who had gone broke fol-
lowing the ponies, Durkin promised to
go easy with the German for 10 rounds,
but knocked him out in two rounds
instead.
Thinking Les was off his guard, the
German tried to finish it in the first round
with a slaughtering punch. “Now, you
mug, you’ve done it,” hissed Rafferty,
who was in the Teuton’s corner when the
combatants retired to be groomed; and
sure enough, when the justly indignant,
but otherwise unshaken, champion went
into action again, one of his blows was
sufficient. The Rumanian for his part
was counted out in the fourth round,
more frightened than hurt.
All these boxers and others who fell
before Durkin’s conquering fists were ac-
companied by American managers. They
told their managers that nobody his
weight could hurt Durkin or stand up to
him for more than a couple of rounds
when he was really in earnest, and the
managers made Durkin lavish offers. One
of them, a certain Kearns, promised Les
a fortune in return for his signature to a
contract, saying that he would not only
whip all the middleweights in America,
but would go through all the heavy-
weights, too.
In after-years Kearns was to manage
Dempsey. Nowadays when he opens his
heart to reporters or wandering Austra-
lians he brackets Durkin and Dempsey as
the greatest fighters of their time, and
questions whether Dempsey could have
beaten Durkin, though the heavier by
at least 201 b.
The conscription campaign had begun
when a Lithuanian with a great record
arrived in Sydney, under engagement to
the Coliseum management, to meet
Durkin, and conscriptionists did not fail
to point the moral. Their protests and
sneers had no effect on the attendance,
which was as vast as at any of Durkin’s
previous fights, except the first one with
Rafferty, when the wounded men from
Gallipoli were present, nor did they rattle
the young champion. He boxed magnifi-
cently.
As early as the second round the
Lithuanian was a beaten man. In the
eighth round he was bleeding and down ;
in the ninth, he was out.
It was Durkin’s last fight. More offers
arrived by mail, and within a month he
was on his way to America. Fearing that
the authorities might get wind of his
plans, he gave it out that he would box
the Lithuanian again in Melbourne on a
Saturday, mentioning the date, and enlist
on the Monday.
When the Saturday came, the tramp
which carried Durkin and Mr. Hoolan
and their fortunes was two days out from
Stockton, bound for Valparaiso.
Arrived at New York, Durkin wrote
to Mac Sherry in a boyish hand and
style: —-
Just a line to let you know my where-
abouts. I was sorry to have to run away
like that, but, you know, Terry, why I
done it.
I’m all right on this side, if I’m all
wrong on that side. I am in bad, I know,
but why should I worry? I reckon I’m
another Houdini, don’t you?
Hoolan and me had a lovely trip, but
a bit lonely. Sixty-two days!
Accompanying the letter were news-
papers which gave glowing accounts of
the welcome reserved for the wanderers
in New York.
In South America they had transhipped
to an oil boat, and when she arrived
off the Statue of Liberty they were
greeted by six tugboats bearing six
managers, Kearns among them, who
shouted offers. But Tex Rickard had
been in touch with Durkin already, and
it was that great man who bore him
away to the Rickard headquarters when


Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COOEE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS .
• V >' -, L
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
1
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505,
77.: 7;
•'> '•
*3*
m
HER BACK ACHED
ALL THE TIME
Kruschen Made Her Feel
Better and Look Years
Y ounger.
Backache caused this woman so much pain
that she could not take exercise, and, as a
result, she soon put on weight. She tells in
the following letter how she overcame her
troubles with Kruschen:—-
“I started taking Kruschen Salts for rheuma-
tism about four months ago. I could not use
my right arm, and my back ached all the time.
Also, from lack of exercise through the pain,
I was putting on too much weight. I saw
Kruschen advertised, and decided to try it.
Now—to my surprise and pleasure— not only
do I feel better, but I have lost my fat and
look years younger. Previous to taking
Kruschen I weighed 11 stone 7 lbs. I now
weigh 9 stone 2 lbs.”—(Mrs.) N.N.
Fat and the pain-causing crystals of uric acid
are deposits resulting from poisons which have
invaded the bloodstream. Gently, but surely,
Kruschen Salts rids the system of all fat-
forming food refuse, and of all poisons and
harmful acids which give rise to rheumatism,
headaches and many other ills.
With New Gland Treatment-
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
l\ TABLETS contain genuine glandulai
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
“This new
Swiss treatment
banished my
CATARRH"
. , . mine was a stubborn
Amazing: results
are reported toy
catarrh sufferers
who have bene-
fited from the re-
cent discoveries
of a brilliant
Swiss research
scientist. Mucous
discharges, stuffi-
ness, phlegm and
toad breath van-
ish when patients
adopt his treat-
ment . . . head-
aches, head noises, deafness, loss of
vitality and the numerous symptoms
attendant on this disease are ended
with magical swiftness. Over 200,000
persons in England and America
gained relief with this simple home
treatment-; and it is now available to
sufferers in Australia.
LONG-STANDING CASES YIELD
Even the most stubborn cases of
catarrh quickly give way. This is
only natural. M. Duboise, who per-
fected this method, has proved that
catarrh IS DUE TO AN ABNORMAL
CONDITION PRESENT IN THE
BODY OF THE SUFFERER, and is
NOT due to climatic conditions. His
treatment goes direct to the CAUSE,
and, by purifying the blood stream
of catarrhal and other poisons, brings
effective and lasting relief.
NO DRUGS, SPRAYS OR DOUCHES
The treatment is free from any harm-
ful, habit-forming drugs. Nor does it
consist of dangerous sprays, messy
douches and atomizers. It does not
attempt to drug the system with
makeshifts. It sets to work AT ONCE
to root out the cause. It does this
in a healthy, natural way. Even child-
ren and elderly people in a weakened
condition respond immediately to the
soothing and healing qualities of this
wonderful treatment. You are not
offered free samples because this is
a scientifically-planned treatment.
SCIENTIST'S BOOK
FREE!
This book tells of the researches made
by M. Duboise, and of the amazingly
simple and effective treatment which
is now available in Australia. No
catarrh sufferer can fail to benefit toy
reading this interesting, intimate
book. It discloses the cause of
catarrh, and its natural common-sense
treatment. Knowledge like this can be
yours for the cost of a postage stamp!
Cut out and fill in the coupon and mail
it off, NOW!
——- CUP HERE
Charlton Sinclair Ltd., Dept. CB/4 #
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Please send me, FREE, M.
Duboises valuable illustrated
book on Catarrh, and tell me how
l can clear away my catarrhal
trouble. I enclose 4d. for postage.
NAME
ADDRESS..
the reporters and cameramen had got
all they were permitted to have.
To Rickard’s headquarters came
managers of other middleweights, mov-
ing-picture men, music-hall agents and
advertisers of breakfast foods and patent
medicines.
Durkin had figured as hero in an Aus-
tralian film, and a positive of that master-
piece had formed part of his luggage ;
but after taking one look at it the mov-
ing-picture men were not anxious to do
business. The music-hall people never-
theless offered good terms for short
seasons on their circuits, and the adver-
tisers were also ready with cheques for
Durkin’s signature to puffs. Their best
offers were snapped up by Durkin and
Mr. Hoolan, who were already sure that
they were sitting on top of the world.
The press was uniformly favorable.
Rooms in a fashionable hotel had been
booked for the two Australians, and a
succession of callers, chiefly boxing edi-
tors, ‘'special” writers, columnists and sob-
sisters, kept them busy.
The boxing editors ransacked their
memories for impressions of other great
Australian boxers who had invaded New
York, and compared Durkin to his ad-
vantage with all but the greatest of them,
Fitzsimmons, adding that his Australian
celebrity was far greater than that of
Fitzsimmons at the same age. The
columnists gave him pride of place in
their contributions; the sob-sisters des-
canted on his fresh complexion and his
engaging grin, and discovered that he was
heart-whole.
And one of the “special” writers came
out with a racy account of “A Day in
the Life of Les Durkin,” which made a
stir. Durkin, he said, was the embodi-
ment of rude health and youthful happi-
ness, so much so that he would dance a
jig while waiting for the elevator to
take him down, and sigh “Ah, it’s good
to be alive!”
Happiness was soon to desert the un-
suspecting youth, and life itself became
a weariness and a torment.
The music-hall appearances were not
successful, and, for one reason and an-
other, fights could not be arranged. In
a short gymnasium bout Durkin made
mincemeat of one of the White Hopes,
a giant who had beaten the famous Lang-
ford ; and the managers who had seemed
so anxious to match their middleweights
with the stranger now interposed objec-
tions.
Durkin and Mr. Hoolan quarrelled,
and parted company. Mr. Hoolan gave
it out that he had arranged for Durkin
to meet Dillon for a £5OOO purse. Durkin
replied through the newspapers that there
would be no fight, as Mr. Hoolan was
no longer his manager.
When the pair were still associated, the
New York “Police Gazette,” giving “an
intimate friend of both men” as its
authority, declared that conscience as
well as ambition had impelled them to
quit Australia. Durkin and Mr. Hoolan
were “going to become American citi-
zens. They are Irish, and, with hundreds
of others of Irish descent in Australia,
their sympathies are not altogether with
Great Britain in the world strife.”
This was published when the U.S.A.
was moving rapidly towards participa-
tion in “the world strife,” and for Durkin
the effect was disastrous.
“Friends” of a month before aban-
doned him. Newspapers turned hostile.
One printed a cruel parody of the
“special” writer’s panegyric: “A Day in
the Life of Les Slacker.” Another closed
an attack with the bitter words: “Unless
Durkin does something to encourage the
idea that he is a fighter, and came here
to fight, instead of grafting on the public
in the guise of an actor—God save the
mark! —nobody will care a hoot in Hades
what he does.”
By this time Durkin was willing to
fight anyone for any money, however
small. But while he remained in New
York the sanction of the Governor of the
State was necessary; and it was publicly
refused.
From Albany, the State capital, came
this cold official explanation: “Governor
Whitman believes that, as this country
is on the verge of war, it would be un-
patriotic and unseemly to place a man
upon a pedestal who has virtually de-
serted the military service of a nation
that will be an ally in the event of hos-
tilities.”
Boxing and politics have always been
closely connected in the U.S.A. For a
period the sport was outlawed all over
the country, and in 1917 its legalisation
was too recent to admit of any promoter
protesting against the fiat of the Gover-
nor of New York on behalf of “a
foreigner who was against the war,”
much less defying it. Hence Mr. Tex
Rickard and his fellow-showmen and the
brotherhood of managers at once dis-
missed Durkin from their calculations.
Governor Whitman’s example was fol-
lowed by Governors of other States as
poor Durkin wandered from one to an-
other in search of matches. His money
was giving out, and he was half off his
head with worry and sick at heart. He
felt a forsaken stranger in a land which
would never be friendly again. In good
old Australia, even when conscription
feeling ran high, he had never known
what it was to be hated and despised ;
but he knew now.
No doubt pity was felt for him in
many quarters, but it was rarely shown.
Americans of the old ruling strain were
on fire with war fever. England was in
danger, and across the sundering seas
and centuries the call of race was heard.
Bunker Hill, Saratoga, the burning of
Washington and the Alabama were as if
they had never been. The United States
had become the American colonies again.
In his wanderings Durkin reached the
Mississippi, and at Memphis, Tennessee,
the United States having come into the
W'ar, he signed papers applying for
naturalisation and admission to the Fly-
ing Corps. He had been advised that,
as a recruit and a citizen in the making,
he would be permitted to box in Ten-
nessee.
But it was too late. At Memphis he
fell sick and died. It was the rpiddle of
spring; his American experiences,
crowded and bitter as they had been, had
lasted scarcely five months.
Many tears were shed for Durkin, and
harsh things were said by those who held
that he had been hounded to his death. His
wasted body, “cased in aluminium,” was
brought back to Australia and buried
amidst moving scenes. It had been borne
through the streets of San Francisco by
old fighting men.
Durkin died on Empire Day. Mr.
Hoolan soon tired of America and weni
to England, where, after the war, he took
up horseracing. In sporting newspapers
he was referred to as “the Anzac
trainer.”
Life’s little ironies are sometimes amus-
ing and sometimes tragic.
{To be continued.)
“Dickie Beech”: Some curious experi-
ments lately made at Dr. Beebe’s bathy-
sphere station at Nonesuch Island in the
Bermudas may have important develop-
ments in connection with commercial
fishing. The attraction of bright lights
for fish at night is, of course, well
known. But when a powerful beam of
ultra-violet light was tried in place of
the customary searchlight the observed
area became literally full of fish, hun-
dreds appearing in the “black light”
where mere brilliancy had attracted only
dozens. When the moon was full, or
nearly full, this effect did not occur.
Scientists consider that the failure is due
not to the intensity of the moonlight
but to the same internal cycle of living
mechanism which causes certain fish to
deposit eggs only during certain lunar
period' - .
* * * *
“Gryllus”: A recent ad. in the London
“Times” asking for 10,000 budgerigars
affords evidence of the extent to which
these pretty, affectionate little Australian
parrots have established themselves as
English bird pets. The ad. will not
result in any Australian export trade, as
they breed freely in captivity and for
years past have been bred commercially
in England, Holland and Germany.
Several standard varieties have been
evolved, differing widely in plumage
and color from the Australian original
type. They can be taught to talk well-
one, reciting nursery rhymes, was
recently broadcast by the 8.8. C. and
created great interest. They are healthier
'and far more intelligent than canaries,
and do not screech in the ear-piercing
fashion of most parrots. Some of the
evolved varieties are of remarkable
beauty in plumage.


Serving ALL of
WESTRALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
“WHALEMEN ADVEHTURERS”
| OOKING over press opinions on the
back cover of Professor W. J.
» Dakin’s Whalemen Adventurers,
issued by Angus and Robertson in
a new, revised, enlarged and handsome
edition, it was hardly cheering to see
Professor Dakin’s 280-page volume
described as “an engrossing and illu-
minating work written with an authority
and a care that bespeak an extensive
knowledge of the subject and a close
attention to detail; it is certain to
remain the standard authority on Aus-
tralian whaling.”
That seemed to have a forbidding
Encyclopaedia Britannica touch about it,
a hint at learned disquisitions on Balcena
mysticetus’s love-life, philosophy, num-
ber of sea-lice, to the square foot, and
other private matters.
Prof. Dakin’s volume was all that;
but it happened, too, to be more exciting
than any yellowback, with magnifi-
cent stories of whalemen, convicts, sea-
dogs and shore-hounds.
Though it is a record of slaughter, it
is a sportsman’s book, and Professor
Dakin, like the countryman reported at
the Sydney Royal Show (“You can get
to love pigs”), loves his whales. Men-
tioning that the Japanese are not yet
co-operating in the regulation of the
industry, he quotes the hopeful and
almost inspiring words of a professor
of Nippon at the Pan-Pacific Science
Congress:
On what day shall we on our Pacific
voyage enjoy the sight of blessed and
peaceful whales around our steamer, thank-
ing us for generous humanity?
Professor Dakin has hunted his whales
on the high seas. When he deals with
them scientifically he is entertaining as
well as informative. After stressing, in a
rather hurt sort of way, that whales are
mammals, he corrects the general im-
pression that they are long-lived fauna,
like elephants, parrots and Czechoslo-
vakian teetotallers. Whales, he says,
rarely reach the age of 10 years. They’re
23 feet long when born, and in just two
years they’ve galloped to 78 feet and are
mature.
From the scientific he proceeds to the
very nearly fictional. A fish story about
a whale (or, rather, a mammal story)
“This orter win the competition, 'Erb!
would naturally be on a large scale, but
the one the Professor tells is colossal.
It’s the yarn about the killer-whales at
Twofold Bay. A pack of them used to
lie in wait there for right whales ; when
they appeared, one of the killers would
go to tell the whalemen about it, flop-
ping his tail on the water till he had
attracted their attention ; the other killers
would herd the whales inshore and then
assist the hunters exactly as a dog assists
a drover. Year by year the killers always
came to the bay, and the whalemen knew
them by their Christian names. Pro-
fessor Dakin investigated the story, and,
fishy (mammally) as it sounds, it appears
to be true.
This yarn and countless others are
incidental to his main purpose, which is
to give the history of whaling in southern
waters from its beginning in convict
times to the present day, but he weaves
adventures so plentifully into the book
that, while the history is absorbed un-
consciously, the sidelights remain vividly
in the memory. Old letters, old ships’
logs were his sources of information on
the early days, and one letter, ffom the
captain of the ship Britannia to the
pioneer whalers, Sam Enderby and Sons,
illustrates perfectly a common attitude
to the convicts. After casually men-
tioning that 21 convicts had died on the
way to Australia, the document con-
tinues :
We have the pleasure to say we killed
the first four whales on this coast. I have
enclosed you the certificates for the con-
victs and receipts for the stores: I am
collecting you some beautiful birds and
land animals.
Convicts there, as the Professor re-
marks, are merely so much live lumber ;
but they come excitingly to life elsewhere
in the book when he tells of a daring
escape made by six of them from Wes-
tralia. John Boyle O’Reilly, poet and
Fenian, escaped from Bunbury by ship,
and, making his way to America, con-
cocted with John Devoy a plot to
rescue six of his compatriots from the
same penal settlement. The Clan-na-
Gael chartered a whaleship for the pur-
pose, and with only the captain and the
carpenter aware of the plot the Catalpa
sailed for Australia. In the meantime
two men, John Breslin and Thomas
Desmond, were sent out to handle
arrangements in Westralia. They carried
out their part so perfectly that Breslin,
as “Mr. Jones,” a distinguished visitor,
was actually shown over the Fremantle
gaol by the Governor.
When the time came the six prisoners
got away from the gaol easily enough,
and Desmond and Breslin provided them
with horses and traps to take them to
Rockingham, 23 miles south of Fremantle.
As the escapees rowed out to the waiting
Catalpa a police guard-boat appeared,
and there was thrilling manoeuvring by
all three vessels before the men were
finally hoisted to safety. Then the
Georgette, a coastal steamer with a body
of soldiers aboard, arrived on the scene
and ordered the men to be handed over
at once, or the Catalpa would be fired
on. Captain Anthony of the Catalpa,
however, had edged outside the three-
mile limit, and the Georgette decided not
to risk firing on an American ship on
the high seas. Professor Dakin caps
it:
And that was the end of it. A very dis-
comfited Georgette returned to Fremantle,
where all business had been suspended foi
the day, so great was the excitement. An ,
to add to the official annoyance, the public
rejoiced in the escape. For them it had
been a gala day!
That is Westralia’s brightest contribu-
tion. Maoriland comes into it with tales
of wild doings at the notorious Korora-
reka. Sydney gets many mentions
from the days when the odorous try-pots
were removed from the vicinity of the
city to the virgin shores of Mosman,to
the date of the last venture when the
whale, being towed to port, was de-
voured by the sharks before the vessel
berthed.
Tasmanians figured in one of the most
exciting episodes of the book. The
Offley, under Captain J. W. Robinson
of Hobart, was keeping company with
the American Mary Powell at Heard
Island when the American ship, losing
her cable, ran ashore under ice-cliffs
higher than the topmast, and all aboard
—lB of the Offley’s men besides the crew
—would have lost their lives if it had
not been for a young American seaman
who climbed the mast and got out on
the yardarm. When the ship rolled into
the cliffs he jumped, cut steps to the top
with a tomahawk and hauled up one of
the lighter men on a lance warp he had
taken with him. These two hauled the
next heaviest up, and so on till all were
rescued.
There is only one fault to be found
with Whalemen Adventurers ; its his-
torical survey is interesting; its geo-
graphical sweep, from Norway to the
icy waters of the Ross Sea, is magnifi-
cent ; the adventure stories, of fights
with storms or whales, mutinies and acts
of daring by some of the toughest men
that ever trod a deck, are royal reading;
but Professor Dakin hints at knowing
many more such yarns, and the book
should have been twice as long.
STORM OVER ST. ANDREW’S
A pre-depression N.S.W.
Government and the Church of England
began a series of discussions which re-
sulted in a plan to remodel St. Andrew s
Cathedral, Sydney, at a cost of half a
million pounds. The Government
guaranteed £lOO,OOO, by way of compen-
sation for land resumed in connection
with the construction of the City Rail-
way ; the Church was to find the balance.
A few months ago it was given out
that the plans of the new cathedral
would soon be taking shape. There had
been a competition for designs and an
award. Incidentally, a design prepared
ROGER PINCKNEY.
member of the English firm whose
design for St. Andrew’s Cathedral was
hotly opposed at the Sydney Diocesan
Synod.
(The object in the background is Frith’s idea
of the mental attitude of Blackett’s ghost.)
by a Melbourne firm went astray and
was never even considered.
Archbishop Mowll and two architects,
English and Australian, were the judges,
and they decided in favor of an English
firm’s design. But when one of its
partners arrived with a model and
photographs of it were published,
there arose protests that' the proposed
building resembled a crematorium or a
garbage destructor. For the defence it
was argued that photographs failed to do
the model justice.
Two parties straightway formed. Such
of the general public as were interested
expressed the hope that the present
beautiful building, a masterpiece of
Gothic architecture, would remain much
as Blackett had designed it.
As I write, the Church authorities are
fighting it out among themselves, but
.it may be permissible to draw their
attention to what happened when Dr.
John Dunmore Lang’s Presbyterian
church on Church Hill was pulled down.
In the place of that fine old church there
was erected a building that resembles a
picture show of the Early Stuart Doyle
period in Australian architecture. Two
such mistakes will hardly enhance the
reputation of Sydney for good taste, and
if any big city stood in need of a better
reputation of this sort it is the place
which can tolerate a Luna Park on its
front doorstep.
St. Andrew’s is not a large cathedral.
It cannot, of course, hold all the Angli-
'cans who may wish to go there on any
given occasion, but the same is true of
the Abbey and St. Paul’s. Possibly, -if
the winning architects were paid for
their design and labors out of the Gov-
ernment’s £lOO,OOO the other £400,000
might be saved by the cathedral’s re-
maining as it is.
The idea of sticking to a good thing
is just as applicable to cathedrals as to
anything else in human affairs.


“Take up Pelmanism and give
your life a new beginning’ —Sir Herbert Barker.
mwi
Sir Herbert Barker.
“I am convinced that
benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who
will follow the
directions given in
the Course. It is
impossible to speak
too highly of it.”
The Baroness Orezy.
“ Pelmanism has
meant to many just
the difference be-
tween a life of
mediocrity and dis-
appointment and
one of prosperity
and triumph.”
£
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is not
for the elect few
only, but is valuable
to all men and
women . . . the re-
sults endure. Cer-
tain habits of mind
are formed which
are of the very high-
est value in life.”
m
Dr. F. W. Norwood,
D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind - training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It
teaches that man
has the key to his
own career.”
'V'
Sir Arthur Quiller-
Coucli.
“I say, without
hesitation, that the
Pelman Course gave
me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in
youth, would have
saved me more time
and labor than I
can reckon.”
m
\ ■
Dame Sybil Thorndike
“Pelmanism, I am
convinced, is the
‘Open Sesame’ that
smoothes away all
difficulties, giving
a mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportuni-
ties and uses them
rightly ”
Lord Baden Powell.
“I feel that no man
—no matter how
educated, or what
his age, or what his
profession who
seriously takes up
the Course, can go
through it without
improving himself.”
Pelmanism trains you
to distinguish be-
tween the essential
and the trivial, be-
tween what is urgent
and what can wait,
between what mat-
ters and what does
not matter.
Pelmanism is a train-
ing. This cannot be said
too often. It removes
bad, careless and slovenly
habits of mind and
memory, and substitutes
for them good, reliable
and exact habits.
Pelmanism makes work
easier and life pleasanter.
It makes the individual
more capable-—it makes
him extremely capable.
It trains him to distinguish
immediately the essential
things and to dismiss the
trivialities. This not only
gives him time for more
work, or leisure for more
enjoyment, but it also in-
duces a freedom of mind
that makes all his Work
good and productive,
and all his pleasure real
and unhampered.
Pelmanism is Scientific Training of
Mind, Memory and Personality
Pel man ism Does.
A course of Pelmanism brings out the
mind’s latent powers and develops them to
the highest point of efficiency. It banishes
such weaknesses and defects as:-
Depression
Timidity
Forgetfulness
Boredom
The Worry Habit
Unnecessary Fears
Indefiniteness
Mind-Wandering
“Inferiority Complex”
Indecision
Weakness of Will
Pessimism
Procrastination
Inertia
Brain-fag
Morbid Thoughts
which interfere with the effective working-
power of the mind, and in their place it
develops strong, positive, vital qualities such
as:
—Concentration
—Observation
—Perception
—Optimism
—Cheerfulness
—Judgment
—lnitiative
-—Will Power
—-Decision
—Originality
—Resourcefulness
—Organising Power
—Directive Ability
—Presence of Mind
—Courage
—Self-Confidence
—Self-Control
—Tact
—Reliability
—Driving Force
—Salesmanship
—Business Acumen
And a Reliable Memory.
By developing these qualities you add to
your Efficiency and consequently to your
Earning Power. In a word, Pelmanism
enables you to live a fuller, richer, happier
and more successful life.
Pelmanism is a sure way to success if
you will give it your loyal effort, your
honest endeavour, and a regular and definite
amount of time until you have completed
the Course. A sustained effort over a period
of but a few weeks will yield you dividends
that will last you your whole life through,
and the Textbooks and personal notes and
correspondence will remain in your posses-
sion, ready at any moment to give you a
steadying encouragement in times of stress,
indecision or fatigue.
Pelmanism is a vital force, the most
powerful stimulus to success the world has
ever known. It seldom fails. The instruc-
tion is easy. Half an hour a day of spare
time for a few weeks is all that is required.
The benefits last a lifetime.
Pelmanism has stood the TEST OF TIME.
It is a scientific method of Mind and
Memory and Personality Training which, in
a few weeks, makes such an impression
that its followers take a different outlook
on life. Their character strengthens, their
minds improve, they gain confidence, and
this is soon noticeable in all their dealings.
Pelmanism fires you with energy and de-
termination, and shows you how to succceed.
It develops the qualities that mark you
out for promotion. It enables you to work
more quickly and efficiently. It makes you
worth more to your employer, and, therefore,
sooner or later —and perhaps sooner than
you expect —it enables you to earn more.
Pelmanism is for every man and every
woman, because every man and every
woman depends on his or her mind. The
Course is given by Correspondence, is easy
to follow, is for all Classes and all Ages.
The benefits are life-lasting.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these 35,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne, C.I, where
it has been established for 30 years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
Fiege - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1932. Paris - - - 1933.
Peimanism is a real training. It teaches
many things, but its purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is emphasised
by every one of the many opinions and
letters published in “The ESicient Mind.”
Copies of this book are posted free. Write
or call.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
465.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
fd
TO "THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of t he Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
aV
&
.k.o°
v *<>*
<V
V^Wrf
<v *£'^
aV^'.o^
sp-'S
J\°
0°
tsT)
co.X^«r
K^jcP
* £&<<&r V
k\’
# ss
#
c? e *
«?.
/
s '
.•• v° 'V^S'r^'
xV^w‘V* 0


HIGH GRADE
i®
*
&
&
TOOL STEELS
IE OH A
BRAND
High Speed Steels, Carbon and
Alloy Tool Steels, Drills, Files
and Rasps, Hacksaw Blades,
Circular Saws, Machine
Knives, Chaffcutter Blades.
Associated Company: Arthur Balfour & Co.,
Ltd., Sheffield, England.
SYDNEY;
379 Kent Street.
BRISBANE:
28 Charlotte Street.
South Australian Agents:
Atkins Limited, 55-57
Pirie Street, Adelaide.
THE
EAGLE
t GLOBE
STEEL
CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE:
342 Swanston Street.
PERTH:
7 I I Wellington Street.
- Tasmanian Agents:
R. L. Milligan,
68a Collins Street, Hobart.
