

RUWOLT
ONE OF AUSTRALIA’S KEY INDUSTRIAL ORGANISATIONS
THE LEADING AND MOST MODERN ENGINEERING WORKS IN AUSTRALASIA
s»l»I
s
* *
psp ; ■
. .. V
■if-
48in. x 20in. SLOW SPEED WET CRUSHING ROLLS
SUPPLIED TO NORTH BROKEN HILL, LTD.
CHARLES RUWOLT
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Largest Contractors to the Mining Industry in Australia
VICTORIA STREET, RICHMOND, VICTORIA
CABLES AND TELEGRAMS—RUWOLT, MELBOURNE. CODES—BENTLEYS AND BROOMHALLS
The Bulletin
Short Story Coopera
Vol. 59.—N0. 3055.
Wednesday, August 31, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
A WOMAN'S LIFE.
She was a child, running about the fields and
woods of Poland, and learning the sweet taste of the
apples that the boatmen of the Vistula brought down
from Kazmierz. The boatmen wore sheepskins, and
straw was piled high over the brilliant red cargo to
protect it from the frost.
She was learning, too, as her father, the impover-
ished professor, had learned, the bitter taste of oppres-
sion under the Tsar. In the middle of the town square
was an obelisk dedicated to Poles who had betrayed
their country in favor of Russia, and once when she
and Kazia were playing a game called “Green” they
were so intent on flourishing their chestnut-leaves at
the appropriate time to avoid the forfeit that they
forgot about the detested monument. They had to
run back the full length of the great square to spit
on it.
A boy she knew was condemned for plotting
against the Tsar, and she sat up all night with his
sister, bathing her eyes and forcing her to drink hot
tea till the sun came up and they realised in terror
that the boy was then being hanged.
When she was 15 she went to her uncle’s farm,
where the 50 thoroughbred horses galloped the fields
below the dark firs and snowy peaks of the
Carpathians. Every time she could she joined in the
kulig, the dance that lasted a night and a day and
a second night. The young men on horseback carried
torches that lit up the snow and the woods as the
sleighs raced by. In the sleigh behind them were the
four Jewish fiddlers, fantastic and bewitching, who
played for them as they danced at each house on the
way till the second night came and the real ball began.
At eight o’clock next morning they danced the last
dance—a white mazurka.
She danced or lazed a year away, but the family
was poor; they made her a governess. She fell
in love with the son of the house, and he with her,
but his parents despised her. She was full of
the despair and indignation of adolescence, but there
was nothing to be done about it. She could not even
afford to leave the house.
She stayed on, and turned to study to console
her, recapturing the intellectual fire that had made
her schooldays brilliant. Her will hardened, and she
determined to go to Paris, work at science, become
famous. When her first chance came she felt that
to go would be to betray Poland and her father. The
second chance came, and she took it.
She lived alone in a little bare room: no heat,
no lighting, no water, no furniture but a mattress she
had brought from Poland, a white wooden table, a
chair. She went to lectures at the university and came
home to starve on bread and tea. The other students
knew her by her ash-blonde hair and her solitary
ways.
When she had broken down from overwork and
malnutrition, she made a few friends. They took
her to a cafe one night to hear a young Polish pianist.
The long, thin young man, whose red hair fell like
flames about his face as he wrestled with the cheap
piano, was Paderewski.
Her passion for learning was kept alight by a
professor who would say in the midst of a dry dis-
course on mathematics, “I take the sun and I throw
it.” She studied for three years in her tiny room,
caring nothing for food or for cold so intense that
one night she piled the chair on her single bedcover
to give the illusion of weight and warmth.
Privation, and the inflexible will that was driving
her, moulded her fair peasant features into the firm
lines of sculpture. When the French scientist, un-
known in Paris but already famous in England, met
her and asked her to mairy him, she was beautiful.
It took a year for her to give up the idea of exclusive
devotion to science and the dream of returning to
Poland. Then she married him, and they cycled
among the remote villages of France, revelling in the
peace of the countryside as she had in her childhood
in Poland.
She had the usual choice between family life and
her career. She decided to make a success of both.
In the second year of her marriage, within an interval
of three months', she brought her first child into the
world and published the results of a research that
was to lead to one of the most important discoveries
of modern science.
She and her husband began to work together on
a theory that was obsessing her. They were desperately
poor; they could not afford a laboratory. For four
years they worked together in a wooden shed that
had been a mortuary before it fell too much into
disrepair. It leaked so much in the rain that they
had to mark the spots where the drips fell so that
their instruments would not be ruined. The woman
was threatened with tuberculosis; the man was far
from well; late hours, lack of sleep and food, the
damp and cold of the shed, the fumes from their
experiments and the perpetual strain of trying to
make a living and lead a normal life as well as the
hard scientific one told heavily on both of them.
They were searching for a new element. She
wondered what it would look like, and he said in
his tired voice “I should like it to have a very beauti-
ful color.” At last they were able to go out late one
night to the draughty shed.
The door squeaked, as it had squeaked thousands
of times, and admitted them to their realm, their
dream.
“Don’t light the lamps!” Marie said in the darkness.
Then she added with a little laugh:
“Do you remember the day when you said to me:
‘I should like radium to have a beautiful color’?”
The reality was more entrancing than the simple
wish of long ago. Radium had something better than
“a beautiful color”; it was spontaneously luminous.
And in the sombre shed where, in the absence of
cupboards, the precious particles in their tiny glass
receivers were placed on tables or on shelves nailed on
the walls, their phosphorescent bluish outlines gleamed,
suspended in the night.
That was how Pierre and Marie Curie, two of
the greatest scientists of the age, discovered radium.
Eve Curie, their second daughter, tells the moving
and dramatic story of it in Madame Curie (Heine-
mann).
If it ended there, with the fame that burst upon
them —a share in the Nobel Prize with the man whose
preliminary work had set them first on the track, the
acclamations of the scientific world and the furious
pursuit by the newspapers—it would be a story to
know, a book to read.
But Madame Curie is much more than that. It
is a human document of such tragic beauty that it
might well become one of the classic love stories of
the world. In prose that has the same rich effect of
earth and sunshine as had the opening paragraph of
And Quiet Flows the Don or the rare good passages
of Anthony Adverse, Eve Curie, excellently trans-
lated by Vincent Sheean, paints her father —bearded,
stoop-shouldered, sick—and her mother—with the mind
of an Einstein and the heart of a Polish peasant-
enjoying toil and hardship together, despising fame
and refusing fortune together, working together again
until the blackest of disaster overwhelmed them.
“Marie and I are working,” wrote Pierre to a
friend one day. Five days later:
The left back wheel of the wagon encountered a
feeble obstacle which it crushed in passing: a forehead,
, a human head. The cranium was shattered and a red
viscous matter trickled in all directions in the mud:
the brain of Pierre Curie!
Walking abstractedly down a street of Paris he
had let himself be run over. Marie Curie, her face
frozen into a white mask that struck terror into her
household, moved like an automaton through the
weeks of misery that followed.
She was appointed to Pierre’s professorship, and
her first lecture began exactly where he had left off.
Honors poured upon her. She won the Nobel Prize
again ; was feted in England, lionised in America —
and tortured by petty jealousy in Paris. With a mobile
X-ray apparatus she saved many lives in the war.
Old, honored, loved, she was still talking of the work
to be done when she died of anaemia brought on by
contact with radium.
The story of the poor student is familiar enough,
but the story of Pierre and Marie Curie is unique.
It needed an exceptional talent to bring out its extra-
ordinary nobility and pathos, and Eve Curie, writing
sometimes with bitter power but most of the time with
quiet grace, was exactly the writer for the task. Few'
novels tell so grand a story or tell it half so well.
An Irish Summer.
A criticism that can justly be levelled at Kate
O’Brien is that she writes too well. Her latest book,
Pray for the Wanderer (Heinemann), is a case in point.
It is gentle, limpid, innocent and beautiful, but it
isn’t real. It is, as the author describes her hero’s
play, “just a comedy about despair.”
Matt Costello, a famous playwright, broken by
the sudden ending of a happy love, goes back to find
peace in his old home in Ireland, where his brother
lives with his wife and children in idyllic happiness.
He finds instead Nell Mahoney, sister to his brother’s
wife, and dreams that in marriage to her he will find
tranquillity and fulfilment. He can’t offer her love,
and she won’t take any less. She sends him away,
but the pain of doing it has quickened her heart so
that her old love for her cousin, Tom Mahoney,
after a long eclipse of bitterness, flowers again and
Matt’s dream is given to another. Matt continues to
be a sadly romantic, and unsuccessful, wanderer.
This “high comedy” is played out in a golden
Irish summer, and the agony of love gone wrong is
changed into something dreamy, philosophic and not
unsweet. Graceful and tender scenes flooded by an
elegaic glow of longing for lost childhood succeed
one another.
All the people are a shade too perfectly in
character. Matt, who had once been a gunman on
the run, is pale and interesting with a lock of black
hair falling into his eyes. Nell, “unquestionably very
beautiful by captious, not by common, standards,”
has a “noble, aristocratic greyhound look” and a
white austerity of spirit that nearly wrecks her life.
Una, the brother’s wife, “was fading but would live
and die most recognisably a rose.” Louise Lafleur,
Matt’s lost love, “looked the perfect exponent of that
illusion for which men are said to have died, and
without which their hearts shrivel.” As for the five
children, they are like those famous painted flowers
that deceived even a bee. Even the village is set in
aspic, “grey and gentle, beautifully spired.”
Pray for the Wanderer is a slow, reflective book.
Every character, every situation, every incident is
raked over and over with analysis, and when the
author has quite finished with them she begins on
Ireland. In respect of the country she has a few inter-
esting things to say, which she puts into the mouth of
Tom Mahoney—perhaps to make up for his being the
black sheep of the book. Says Mahoney:
We’ve created no art in Ireland such as the other
great Catholic peoples have. A certain amount of
applied art in the golden age of the monasteries; a
certain amount of craftsmanship— vide the illuminators.
But nothing pure, no fine art. No painters at all, by
European standards. We have none yet; we don’t under-
stand painting, good, bad or indifferent. No sculptor,
and none coming. Absolutely no composers of music,
although the Eternal Church which we have served with
so much passion has been the mistress and inspirer of
all these things elsewhere. It’s damn’ queer.,..
When it comes to words it is another matter:
Words we have some mastery with. The satirical
bards! But you must admit, all the same, that the lan-
guage we’re now digging out of the grave has left the
world nothing. Nothing like the Canterbury Tales or
the Divine Comedy or Don Quixote. No, we’ve only
produced one native giant so far —because you can’t
call Swift a native —we’ve only got Joyce to measure
against the immortals up to date. And his great spring
seems to have dried up on him now.
And what would George Bernard Shaw have to
say to that?
"A Cargo of Parrots."
In A Cargo of Parrots (Macmillan) R. Hernekin
Baptist has a tragic and poetic theme.
Karl Heuser, dying of fever at Loindo on the
West African coast, committed his consignment of
parrots and other tropical birds, destined for the zoos
of Europe, to the care of his Mohammedan servant
Ramazani. Heuser had been a hunter of rarities for
museums, but need had forced him to undertake this
contract for zoos. To cage a bird was an enormity
to him, but having undertaken to deliver them he
determined that his servant should fulfil the obligation.
So Ramazani embarked on the American ship
Stockholm with his cargo of parrots bound for Dar-
es-Salaam, where his dead master’s cousin was to
take charge of the birds.
This was a big step in the black man’s life ; he
was stepping out of his known world into an utterly
strange one. On the ship he was the only passenger
and the birds were the only freight, for these were
the depression years when hungry ships prowled round
the world looking for any crumbs they might pick up
in the way of trade.
It was a queer ship and a strange voyage. The
blind longing of the birds for freedom and the forest,
their distress in storm and changing climate, the
broken pattern of their instinctive lives, the tarnish-
ing of their plumage in captivity, is the leit-motif of
the piece. The reader is perpetually conscious of the
birds and their losing struggle for life. They are the
chorus. Their leader is Niger:
An experienced parrot of possibly 50 or 60 years’
life in cages—passed, like Ramazani, like a cent or
a shilling, from, master to master —-is no longer excited
by the proximity of a dark forest, the sight of brown
hawks on the wing. Immovable, inscrutable as the
stone birds of Zimbabwe and the Maya temples, the
dark bird once more faced change.
Ramazani, kidnapped as a child into slavery,
escaped and served master after master. He faced
the responsibilities of an unknown world with simple
pride. At Dar-es-Salaam the cousin had gone, and
Ramazani’s orders were to take the birds on to
London. The ship ran into cold weather; freezing,
the Mohammedan kept the feast of Ramadan and
kept the birds warm as best he could with a hurricane-
lamp and his blankets.
But the cold was not his only trouble. The first
mate of the Stockholm, Jacob, a captain degraded for
ill-treating his crew, and serving now in an assumed
name under his son, resented the presence of a black
man, and focused upon him and his birds the whole
force of his sadistic hatred. The two men are at the
opposite poles of humanity. They are the only two
characters in the book that are fully developed.
As the ship nears England the implicit struggle
between Ramazani and Jacob becomes more intense.
Ramazani defends his birds with difficulty. The crisis
comes when the ship docks and the Customs refuses
to allow the birds in. Jacob claims that the birds
must be destroyed, and seizes them. He begins to
throw them into the ship’s furnace, when Ramazani,
in a last defence of his master’s property, strikes him
down with an iron bar. The book ends there.
The four feet went on ascending the ladder, the
bos’n’s tread mournful and heavy, the bird-boy’s bright
and hopeful as a child following its father. At the foot
of the ladder, as it might be one of the figures round
the Cross, the cook, gazing upward no more at that
sad ascent, wept into his hands most bitterly, melting
the cold, impotent silence of white men—old, old men
of all ages—with his warm youthful tears.
A Cargo of Parrots is original, full of deep feel-
ing and at moments powerful, but it bears the marks
of immaturity. The prose is sometimes awkward and
angular; sometimes turgid; sometimes of a glossy,
unnatural simplicity. Ramazani is convincing but
Jacob is not. Jacob is overdone, a figure out of melo-
drama ; his past has the effect of rationalisation, and
his secret relationship to the captain is a slice from
a novelette. The book is apparently a first novel—
and in that category a very promising piece of work.
Divorce in the 'Nineties.
Emile Cammaerts flamed into prominence as
Belgium’s war poet nearly a quarter of a century ago.
War doesn’t seem to be good for poets ; it seems apt
to petrify their gifts and leave them for ever in one
mould, if it does not destroy their bodies.
Cammaerts survived the war and consolidated his
literary position, but his latest novel, The Child of
Divorce (Hamish Hamilton), has a curiously faded
air. The world it depicts no longer exists. Yet the
pathos of the story —the sufferings of a sensitive and
delicate boy whose parents have been divorced and
who has to bear the harshness that society visits on
an innocent victim —depends very largely on its period
setting.
The book is set in Brussels and its suburbs in the
last decade of the nineteenth century. To be a free-
thinker or a rationalist was then an enormous adven-
ture. Divorce was worse than death and cut off even
the innocent party from society almost completely.
Claude’s mother was both a freethinker and a
(i Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — always.
"THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
■
X
, ■
NO BLADES
O' ■-(
NO LATHER
Trrni
>
SKIN
LOTION
NO LOTIONS
3D
NO CUTS/
ELECTRIC
DRY
SHAVER
TESTED
and
APPROVED
OiMJI
2,000,000 MEN
Quicker, Cleaner, Smoother
Give yourself absolute freedom from shaving problems by invest-
ing in one of these Schick Dry Shavers. No water, no soap, no
brush, no blades required, so you can readily see that in the
many years' service you will receive from your Dry Shaver it
will soon be paying for itself.
Electric shaving is the simplest thing—all you have to do is plug
into your power point or electric light socket! In the shearing
head of the Schick Shaver lies the whole art of mechanical shaving.
The thinness of the outer plate, wi|h teeth extending from side to
side, is responsible for quick, close shaves . . A Schick construc-
tion that has given thousands of quicker, smoother and cleaner
shaves per shaver.
The Schick Shaver now stands tested and approved not by a
mere handful of men who try new things, but by more than
2,000,000 men. You'll be just as pleased as they are with its many
comforts, ease of operation and real economy. Besides, every
time you use a Schick, you not only have a grand shave, but
you give your face a very beneficial massage.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS' £5/10/-
Here is the Schick Shearing Head (Cutter)
And How it Works:
The flatness and extreme thinness of the outer plate of
this shearing head are responsible for quick, clean shaves.
Its patented features are vital to its shaving qualities.
The outer edges, designed like a comb, comb the beard
(but not the skin) into position for cutting.
This cutter never needs re-sharpening, as it is self-adjust-
ing to compensate for the infinitesimal wear.
j
ĵ
j
ĵ
J>oh th&
Svvwksui
Anthony Horderns' famous brands of Briar Pipes.
"Primrose/' a well made Pipe, silver
mounted. Anthony Horderns' Price, 4/-
"Palace" brand, of a better grade.
Anthony Horderns' Price 5/6
"Triumph," a specially graded and well
seasoned Bowl Pipe. Best quality Vul-
canite mouthpiece. Silver mounted.
Anthony Horderns' Price 9/-
"Triumph" Cigars. A small smoke of
excellent quality. Packets of 6. Price, 1/-
Box of 25. Anthony Horderns' Price, 3/9
Box of 50. Anthony Horderns' Price, 7/6
Wallet shape Tobacco -Pouch, with cigar-
ette paper slide. A great range of lea-
thers to select frofn. Anthony Horderns'
Prices, each 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, 7/6, 9/6, 11/-
Gold mounted.
Prices each 12/6, 16/6, 18/6
Chromium plated Smokers' Stand, 'fitted
with glass ash tray, match holder and
cigar rests. Anthony Horderns' Price, 26/-
Other designs in Bronze or Chromium at
prices from 26/- to 85/-
"Triumph” Virginia Cigarettes. Plain and
also cork tipped. Packets of 16. Price, 1/-
Box of 50. Anthony Horderns' Price 3/1?
Box of 100. Anthony Horderns' Price, 6/3
"Triumph" Egyptian Cigarettes. Plain,
also cork tipped. Packets of 20. Price 1/9
Box of 50. Anthony Horderns' Price 4/3
Box of 100. Anthony Horderns' Price 8/6
"lohn Ruskin" heavyweight Virginia Cig-
arettes. Plain or cork tipped. These Cig-
arettes are of outstanding quality.
Packets of 20. Anthony Horderns' Price 1/S
Box of 50. Price 3/9. Box of 100. Price 7/6
"Triumph" Long Cut Tobacco for pipe.
Medium strength. Cool and smooth smok-
ing. 2-oz. pkts. Price 1/9. 4-oz. pkts. 3/6
1-lb. box. Anthony Horderns' Price 13/6
"Triumph" Gold Bar Tobacco, for pipe.
Also fine, suitable for cigarettes.
1-lb. box. Anthony Horderns' Price 14/6
Lambert & Butlers' "Waverley" Mixture.
Coarse cut for pipe. Cool and sweet to
the last puff. 2-oz. tin. Anthony Hor-
derns' Price 3/~
Per lb. Anthony Horderns' Price 23/6
"Sovereign" Cigarette Tobacco. A choice
Virginia for the smoker who prefers to
roll his own. Packed in 1-lb. cartons,
specially for Anthony Horderns'. Price,
per lb 15/-
Price per oz., loose \/ m
• Tobacco Dept.—Ground Floor—George Street.
Free delivery within our delivery area.
z
/
h
FOR LADIES, TOO! There is no gentler way to remove hair from the legs, arms and the
neck. Use of the Schick does not increase the growth or darken the colour o t e s in or air.
It is absolutely painless, the sensation being as pleasant as a massage wit t e inger ‘P 3,
Because of the tender nature of the skin, especially under the arms, only a very ig pressure
is needed to remove every vestige of hair.
You can sit in a comfortable armchair and shave with a Schick. You do not need a light
or a mirror. If you wear glasses, you can leave them on with no fear of splashed lenses, for
you use neither soap nor water with the Schick Shaver. Shave twice a day if you wish,
for the action of the Schick is so gentle you could shave ten times a day without hurting
yourself. There are no blades in the Schick Shaver —no sharp eages to cut you —no moving
part can touch the skin —so that shaving becomes a real joy.
• .Department-Ground Floor—Pitt Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
PHONE M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


£ibo
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for “The Bulletin’s” Short Story
Competition are:—
First £7O
Second £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
Growing-up on the Fields
DAY OF
THE Sports
BY Gavin S. Casey
ILLUSTRATED BY JOHN MILLS.
WHEN I was a kid on the goldfields there was
no one I admired as much as I did “Chook”
Little. Even now I can remember Chook
and the way he used to be head and shoulders
taller-than me, or any of the rest of us, and how the
little, close yellow curls on his round, bullet head
used to shine in the sun. You never used to see
Chook awkward and doubtful, like most of us were
whenever there were any adults around. Nobody
ever thought they could displace Chook as leader of
our mob. We all wanted to be like him. I wouldn’t
like to be like him now, because he’s turned into
a fat, brainless sort of a chap, but we all admired
him and were afraid of him when we were kids.
I remember one day the mob had together,
though, when I scored over Chook. I probably re-
member it because it was the best day I ever had, a
strenuous, exciting day that seemed to last about a
week, as all days do, good or bad, when you’re a kid.
It was the day of the sports, and they used to
have real sports on the goldfields in those days. I
can remember whep I first opened my eyes, before
I got out of bed, lying there staring at the beams of
our verandah roof, and thinking about the sports.
Then I rolled over and had a look at dad, sucking
and blowing through his moustache in his sleep, and
got up, trying not to wake anyone else, and sneaked
through to the back of the house. It wasn’t long
before all the sleep was out of my eyes, and I was
dressed, with the bootlaces going through about every
third hole, and no part in my hair, as usual. The mill
of the United was rumbling away, as it did day and
night in those days, but we were all used to its noise.
The clatter of a milkcart, rocketing over the stony,
untarred street, was a much more noticeable row.
Outside the sun seemed to be coming up out of
the shaft, right between the poppet-legs of the old
Northern Lass, as it always did, and there was dew
on the long grass. I don’t know why it’s changed,
but there was long grass then, and the kids used
to have great fights with it. We used to tear up
handfuls, with great clods of red soil around the
roots, and hit each other over the heads. I was won-
dering how we’d fill in the morning, whether Chook’d
want to stay on the dumps or go out in the bush. I
was so full of life and anticipation of everything
ahead that I couldn’t walk. I ran, and I tore up some
grass and had a few practice whacks at fenceposts on
the way. Our dog and the dog from next door ran
with me, and for half a street block I dragged a stick
along the picket and corrugated-iron fences, until a
man on one of the verandahs came out in his pyjamas
and swore.
When I was climbing up Reservoir Hill, where
we were to meet, a sharp, flinty stone hit me in the
shin, and I looked up and saw Chook. The stone
hurt, but I didn’t mind much when I saw who it was.
“Damn y’! ” I called out when I saw his head
sticking around the corner of the caretaker’s fence.
“Where’s th’ mob?”
“You’re the first,” said Chook. “There’s no
one else even in sight.”
“Well,” I said, “ain’t that just like the cows?
Aw, yes, they’re always ready to meet at five o’clock.
They’re ready, all right, I don’t think!”
But I didn’t mind, really. I scrambled up the big
hill, and Chook and I stood with the whole town, and
the mines, and the ribbons of road and miles of scrub
laid out around us. I felt pleased to be the first after
Chook, and I thought it wouldn’t be bad to be up
there with just Chook for a while before the rest
came along. We shied stones about for a time and
didn’t say much. Chook looked thoughtful, and after
a bit he told me what was worrying him.
“I’ll tell you what,” he said. “There’s too many
little kids in our mob. Y’ can’t do nothin’ much,
carting a lot of brats about all the time. I been think-
ing of tellin’ some of them to mizzle off.”
I was a year younger than Chook myself. It
made me doubtful about agreeing, but I wasn’t game
to start an argument.
“Fellers that can’t get out o’ bed on an impor-
tant occasion like this want kicking out, anyway,”
I said.
“You’re right,” said Chook, “an’ Brownie’s always
late. If he ain’t here soon I’ll tell him to mizzle off
for a start.”
I couldn’t argue with Chook, but I didn’t think
Brownie was a bad kid.
“Aw, I dunno,” I said. “I reckon there’s worse
than him.”
“Do y’?” said Chook. “Well, I’ll tell y’ what I
reckon. I reckon Brownie’s a pimp. A pimp, I
reckon.”
Chook told me why he reckoned Brownie was
a pimp, and he didn’t sound very convincing. I felt
sorry for Brownie, but I couldn’t say so outright.
“Well, if I was sure he done that, I’d say kick
him out, straight away,” I admitted.
“Well, I’m goin’ to kick him out,” said Chook.
< ‘ D LUGGER” Ritchie and “Skeeter” arrived then
with some more dogs, and started arguing
about whose dogs were the best, and I forgot all
about Brownie for a while. Skeeter thought he
knew all about dogs, as well as everything else. He
and Plugger almost started a fight because he said
his fat, black, hairy dog would be almost as fast as
a whippet if he clipped it and trained it a bit, and
Plugger laughed. But Chook bawled “Shut up, you
two, or I’ll bump yer heads together. An’ you better
look out, ’cause I’m going to kick a few blokes out
of this mob.”
I suppose Skeeter and Plugger trembled inside
like I would have. Anyway, they stopped squabbling.
Chook was telling them all about how he thought
Brownie was a pimp, when I saw Brownie coming.
I didn’t want Brownie to get hurt or anything, so I
made a suggestion.
“Listen,” I said. “If we’re not going to have him
any more what about just nicking off before he gets
here?”
But Chook wasn’t going to be done out of his
rights like that.
“We’ll stay until ‘Pimpy’ Brown gets here, and
then I'll tell him to mizzle off,” he said.
Brownie was nearly at the bottom of the hill. He
was sprinting and throwing himself about like I had
on the way over, and he had a dog. I suppose he was
pleased, being so late, to see the mob still waiting on
the hill. He was a plump, rosy little chap, a bit
girlie, but I suppose he was thinking about the sports
and what a good holiday it would be, just like I had.
He arrived within yelling distance, grinning happily.
“Hallo, you blokes!” he bawled out. “Thought
you’d be gone. The old woman heard me sneakin’
out, and made me come back an’ chop some mornin’
wood.”
The mob turned toward him, and no one spoke.
The gleam faded out of Brownie’s eyes, and his leap-
ing sprints dropped to a shambling walk.
“What’s the matter?” he asked weakly.
Chook went down the hill towards him in a
menacing way. .
“You can mizzle off,” he said. “We ain’t havin
nothin’ more to do with you.”
Brownie’s lower lip dropped. His eyes picked
out one after another of us. None of us would look
at him, though I daresay the others felt as uncom-
fortable as I did.
“What for have I got to mizzle off from this
mob, anyway?” he asked.
Before Chook could answer, Skeeter, who was
safe behind him, let Brownie know.
“ ’Cause you’re a pimp,” he roared. “We don’t
want no pimp kickin’ around with us.”
“Who says I’m a pimp?” demanded Brownie,
looking very sick. “Whoever says I’m a pimp is a
liar.”
That was what Chook wanted. His face went
redder than ever, and he stuck out his big chest.
“I say you’re a pimp,” Chook shouted. “Who
says I’m a liar?”
“I’m not a pimp,” squeaked Brownie.
“Do you say I’m a liar?” bellowed Chook, going
closer and holding out his fist.
“I just say I’m not a pimp,” Brownie insisted,
beginning to blubber.
They might have argued for a long time only
Plugger let fly with a stone, and it hit Brownie on
the side of the neck. Brownie stood still for a
moment with his mouth open. Then he yelled and
ran. I can remember him yelling as if he was being
killed, and running fast down the steep, rocky slope.
“Sool the dogs after him,” someone called out.
The whole mob went charging down the hill,
grabbing stones and letting them fly after Brownie
and his dog. The dog ran with its tail between its
legs, howling. I had felt sorry for Brownie, but now
I felt angry, perhaps because the kid hadn’t stood his
ground and fought Chook and the lot of us. I was
excited, with the mob and the dogs all running and
making a row. I hadn’t intended to hurt Brownie,
but somehow I found a nice, smooth, middle-sized
stone in my hand, and I yelled and let it go. It hit
the dog, and bounced off the dog and hit Brownie
on the leg. “Got him! ” I bellowed. “I hit the pimp! ”
It wasn’t long before Brownie was only a small,
weeping figure, vanishing around the corner of an
outlying town block, and we were all standing at the
bottom of the hill, puffing and skiting to each other
about how we’d dealt with him.
“That’ll show you kids what happens to a pimp
in this mob,” said Chook.
“Hope his stinkin’ dawg gits a bait,” said
Plugger.
But I felt ashamed of myself, and wished I had
not helped them chase Brownie. I felt that the day
hadn’t started right with the kid going home crying.
I would just as soon have gone off home myself
until the afternoon, when the sports started, but I
knew that if I did I’d be finished with the mob for
good. Chook wouldn’t stand anything like that, so I
wasn’t game.
AFTER a while we went out into the bush and got
a lot of rabbits. But the day hadn’t started right,
and there were arguments among the mob. All the
time we were eating the sandwiches and things we’d
brought for breakfast we squabbled, though none of
us squabbled with Chook, of course. We used to
have great days in the bush. After the rifle range,
there’d be nothing but bare bush on the low hills,
except for an occasional little dump where someone
had - tried his luck, until you got to the fettlers’ huts,
seven miles away. We never used to get lost, even
when we wandered a long way from the line, because
every road for miles around led straight back to town,
as long as you followed it in the direction of the
smoke that hung in the sky over the mines. But that
day wasn’t one of the best days.
It was good fun, of course, while we were hunt-
ing. We hunted like a tribe of blackfellows. We had
all our family dogs, and most of our next-door dogs,
and all the other dogs we could persuade to follow
us on our way through town. They were all sizes
and shapes and colors, and they fought a good deal.
But whenever one raised a rabbit the whole pack,
dogs and boys, would go after it. Sometimes they’d
raise two or three rabbits at once, and there’d be
a great mix-up. And when the dogs got a rabbit
we’d generally have to belt them away from it, with


waddies and rocks, before they tore it to pieces.
And we used to sell what we got afterwards from
door to door, for extra pocket-money. That morn-
ing we wanted a lot of rabbits, so we’d have plenty
to spend at the sports, and we got a lot, too, and!
were pleased when we started back to town with all
the little furry bodies, stuffed with gum-leaves, hang-
ing from our belts. Only it was later than we’d ex-
pected it would be, and we were hotter and more
tired, and we were still irritable.
“Gosh!” said Chook. , “I never thought we’d git
so many, after startin’ late an’ everything.”
“Did y’ see our Bonnie get this big bloke?” asked
Plugger.
“Yair,” I said. “That little foxie chased it right
into her mouth, didn’t it?”
“Big dawgs are no good fer rabbits,” said Skeeter,
who thought he knew everything. “They got the
speed, but they ain’t smart enough at twistin’ an’
turnin’.” And then he and Plugger started arguing
again until Chook roared out: “Shut up !” losing his
temper. “We got no time to waste. If you stupid
cows don’t get a wriggle on, we won’t be able to sell
any of these here bunnies.”
It was very hot, with the sun high and bright,
and nothing had gone right all day. Otherwise I’d
never have been game to argue with Chook. But
I’d been listening to them argue, and getting wilder
and wilder.
“Aw, who’d care?” I said. “I don’t want to go
lugging the things all round town, anyway.”
“It’s a cow of a game,” agreed Plugger, who
must have been still rattled over.what had been said
about his dog. “I’d rather go caddyin’ at the golf
links to get a few bob, if it comes to that.”
For a few minutes Chook, who wasn’t used to
being disagreed with, didn’t have anything to say. But
Skeeter still wanted to have a go at Plugger.
“Aw!” said Skeeter. “You’d rather follow one
o’ the toffs around like a little dawg all day than stick
with y’r cobbers.”
“Garn!” said Plugger. “You blokes are just
jealous, ’cause you can’t get a caddy when y’ want
one.”
“Who’s jealous?” asked Chook. “Who’d be
jealous o’ you, anyway? Cripes, that makes me
laugh!”
“I said he’s jealous,” said Plugger. “I never said
nothin’ about you.”
“Golly! ” snorted Skeeter. “I got nothin’ to be
jealous about. I don’t give a damn fer no links or
no rabbits either. I can git all the money I want
frum me dad.” He was in a real fury, and he stripped
all his rabbits off his belt and threw them away, yards
into the bush, where the dogs pounced on them.
“Hell!” roared Chook excitedly. “Y’ don’t think
I gotter peddle rabbits t’ git any dough, do you?”
In a very grand way Chook threw his rabbits
up into the branches of a tree, where not even the
dogs would get them. Plugger and I stood watching,
and I felt pleased, but then Chook turned and glared
at us. Chook probably didn’t quite know what had
caused all the trouble, or why he had done such a
silly thing. So he glared at us as hard as he could.
“You, Plugger an’ Bill,” he said. “You chuck
yours away, too.”
“Aw, Chook” Plugger started to say; but
Chook gave him a very hard punch in the kidney, and
he dropped his labbits and the dogs jumped at them. I
was frightened of Chook, so I threw mine into a
tree as he’d done.
“Won’t be time to sell any when we get in,” said
Plugger. “We’re just savin’ ourselves the trouble o’
carryin’ ’em.”
“I can git some dough from my old man when-
ever I want to,” Skeeter boasted. “On’y as a rule
I’d rather be independent.”
“My dad’s got plenty of money, an’ he don’t mind
spendin’ it on me, either. I can get a few deeners
from him easy enough,” announced Chook.
“Me, too,” I said. “It don’t worry me. I can get
half a dollar from dad, an’ probably the same from
mum, an’ be all set for this afternoon without the
rotten old rabbits.”
None of us believed it, of course. We were
pretty quiet going home, all wondering whether we’d
really get any money for the sports.
AT lunch no one took much notice of me. Dad
and mum were talking about some man in the mine
store where dad worked who had been arrested for
stealing gelignite and fuses. I remember dad was
upset about it, and mum said he was a fool to waste
his sympathy on a drunken waster, and that he ought
to be thankful he hadn’t been dragged into it. My
problem was much more important and urgent than
what they were speaking about, but they wouldn’t
realise it. After the meal, dad went out to the veran-
dah and smoked and looked glum, and I hung around
his chair for a long time on the verge of saying some-
thing, but always frightened it might be the wrong
thing, before he noticed me. When he did, he got
part of the truth out of me and gave me two shil-
lings. It was enough, to enable me to hold my head
up with the mob anyway, and I felt much better and
considerably relieved and very grateful to dad. I
knew it was no use going near mum that day. So I
tore out of the house and went to the corner where
we had to meet.
When I got there I could see there was a good
deal of trouble ; and there certainly was. Chook’s
father was drunk, and Chook had nothing. Skeeter
hadn’t got anything either, and Plugger’s mother had
given him only sixpence. We’d all be able to get in
on my two shillings and Plugger’s zack, but then we’d
only have a penny-ha’penny each to spend in the
ground.
“Cripes! We’re goin’ to have a good time,” said
Chook, “I don’t think!”
“If my old woman thinks I’ll ever chop her
stinkin’ morning-wood again she’ll find out she’s
wrong,” said Plugger very bitterly.
“Aw,” said Skeeter. “You blokes needn’t worry.
We c’n git in for nothing. I know a way.”
“You!” said Plugger, full of scorn. 'T bet y’
don’t. They got barbed wire all the way round, an’
they’ve even put it on the caretaker’s fence where
we used to get through, y’ goat.”
“They got blokes all round on the inside, too,”
I said.
“I know a way,” said Skeeter. “I bet I can get y’
in.”
He did, too. We went around to the back of
the men’s lavatory and pulled out the pans, and
went in through the holes in the seats. We never
got a chance to get into the recreation ground that
way again, because so many kids followed our example
that they gave the show away, and the council put
locks on the trapdoors. But it worked that day, and
we were very pleased and proud and Skeeter was very
popular, though I daresay if our mothers had known
(Plugger’s and mine, anyway) we’d have got into real
hot water.
'"THE ground was absolutely packed, the way good
1 athletics and sideshows always used to pack it in
the old days. It’s not such a large ground, really,
b.ut we were kids, and it looked to hold all the people
in the world. They were tramping the grass and dust
into the air and making a hum of talk. It was a
'’windless day, hot in the sunshine, of the kind we
still get on the ’fields sometimes in winter. The bar
was busy. The bookies were busy. Everything was
busy. The ground looks smaller now than it did
then, but I’m not sure the show wouldn’t look just
as big. There was real money on the prize lists in
those days, and it used to attract champions and
record fields. It used to attract onlookers, too. They
used to roar approval and disapproval, and perspire
and drink and quarrel and mill around until they
were dead-beat and as happy as kings.
Of course the training-room was where we kids
wanted to be, but it was hard to get into. It had a
little fenced yard and a fenced path out to the track,
and there were stern-looking men guarding the en-
trances and exits. It stank of good, strong liniments,
and inside it men with smooth, lumpy-muscled limbs
were laid out on the benches, and patted and rubbed
with loving care. Everyone breathed heavily, in air
that was thick with the smoke from the pipes and
cigars of trainers and supporters, and there was know-
ledgable talk. Kids who got in were proud and con-
fused, and kept their eyes and ears wide open, while
those who had to stay out were envious.
We visited a lot of stalls and sideshows, but when
our half-crown was spent, which wasn’t long, we
gravitated back to the training-room. When we weren’t
looking at events we watched the runners and jumpers
and log-choppers and cyclists trotting up and down
the little path, and kept our ears open for any remarks
they might make to admirers on our side of the fence.
Then they began to get ready for the goat race,
and it was our chance to get into the training-room.
Goat-racing was a big thing on the fields years
ago, and it was a long way from being a joke to the
kids, and wasn’t altogether one to their elders. They
used to bet on it as heavily as most other sports,
anyway. The goats were well-groomed and fit, and
some of the little carts they dragged were as well-
built as trotting-spiders. There were kids we knew
driving in the goat-race, and we reckoned we ought
to be able to get in.
“Hey! Sharpie! Sharpie!” Skeeter yelled in a
frenzy to a driver I didn’t know. “Be a sport an’ let
me lead him out for y’! ”
“Aw, I’m all right,” said Sharpie, very superior.
“Old Lightnin’ don’t take any lookin’ after.”
“Aw, be a sport. Be a sport,” pleaded Skeeter,
and after a while he managed to get through the gate,
leading the goat.
Chook got fixed up, of course, because there
weren’t many kids who wouldn’t oblige him on
demand, and there were Plugger and myself left. Then
Plugger found a pal, and .1 began to get anxious. I
saw “Dingo” Walsh driving over, and I got desperate.
’ “Cripes, Dingo,” I said. “Leave us yer whip an’
yer cap. I’ll bring ’em through to you before y’ start.
I only want to get in. Be a sport, Dingo.”
“What’s it worth?” asked Dingo sourly. “I can’t
risk lookin’ a fool without me whip an’ cap fer
nothin’.”
| HAD no money left, but I got the whip only by
1 promising Dingo a shilling within a week. Any-
way the whip worked, and I was soon in the training-
room. The programme was almost over, and the place
Chook went down the hill towards him. “You can
mizzle off.” he said. “We ain’t havin’ nothin’ more
to do with you.”
was full. The mob got together now we were all
inside. The men were being rubbed and showering
and dressing, and we moved about among them
cautiously, listening to them.
“Gosh!” Plugger whispered, pointing to a big
man who was lying on one of the benches. “Look
at the shoulders on that bloke!”
“Look at his legs,” said Skeeter. “That’s O’Reilly,
who won the ten-mile bike handicap. He works with
my dad.”
“There’s Bill Wellington,” I said.
Bill Wellington’s mother ran the lolly-shop near
our school, and we were proud of him, but he hadn’t
done too well that day. He was swearing a lot to his
(Continued on page 7.)


Spoil from the Spieler
JAM SANDRA X HIS MARK
By
A-C-HEADLEY
DRAWING BY LOCK.
f C* CUT,” said Skinny, “let me introduce you to
Jam Sandra, the wonder of the age, the
well-known Hindu mystic, with which is in-
corporated the Sands of Fate.”
Considering that, except for the brass blonde in
attendance, the bar was empty, it looked as though
Skinny would have to conduct some mystic business
to produce the Indian Mystic.
“Go ahead,” I said, taking another suck at my
beer.
“Scut,” grinned Skinny, “you don’t have to raise
your eyes ; you’re talkin’ to ’im right now. You see
before you the famous Jam Sandra, foreteller of
futures, the wise eye of the East. Scut, it’s a business
proposition.”
“Not another?” said I. “Our pockets won’t
stand it.”
“Listen, Scut,” said Skinny, “I got everything
sewn up. Nigger Fox was in the game, an’ he’s got
all the outfit —turbans an’ everything. All you do
is set up the tent in the rustics and wait for the ladies
to change their coin into Indian currency.”
“Since when,” said I, “have you been Hindu?”
Skinny lifted his glass while the barmaid mopped
underneath.
“Scut,” he said, “all you need is some stuff to
smear over your dial, a turban on your skull, and
when you talk about Anna they think you’re talkin’
Indian coin instead of Swede barmaid.”
“Maybe,” said I. “Why doesn’t Nigger want it
himself if it’s so good?”
Skinny put his glass down. “It ain’t nothin’ like
that. Nigger’s made a poultice out of it and he wants
to go in for something bigger. That’s the on’y
reason.”
“The only one you can see,” said I. “Maybe
it’ll be different when we have another talk with
Nigger.”
U/E went round that afternoon. Nigger was
pleased to see us. He was a feller about Skinny’s
size with a face so sharp that you could use it for
a razor blade. It was dark, and his teeth, when he
flashed them, were the same color.
“Skinny,” he said, “I knoo you’d come. For
fifty pounds, I can hear you say, this opportunity
is unsurpassed.”
“Listen, Nigger,” said I, “quit the spiel and tell
us what we get for our dough.”
“0.K.,” said Nigger, “O.K. I’ll give you the pea
under the shell. I’ve made dough and I want to get
into the bigger dough. What do I do? I look round
to see if I can see anyone who can pick the knock
of opportunity from the knocker. Skinny, I say
straight away. There’s a man, says I, who has had
experience in the tent game. So what do I do but
go and see Skinny.”
f “All right,” said I, “and just what is this Jam
Sandra business?”
Nigger waves his hand. “There’s the tent, and
that explains everything. Sandra, the Oriental Mystic.
All you gotter do is rig up the tent, put some stain on
your face and tell the ladies about dark strangers
and trips across water. I’ll even tell you where to
go. I’ve got regular customers in most of the towns,
and with that stain on your dial, and the name plas-
tered on the tent, they won’t know the difference.”
“Well,” said Skinny, looking at me.
I shrugged my shoulders. “You can please your-
self.”
“It’s a deal,” said Skinny.
Nigger held out his hand while Skinny counted
the dough.
'T’HAT was that, and the next day we collected the
props and Nigger taught us how to tie the
turban, and by the end of the week we were ready
to step off.
We got to one of the places on Nigger’s list,
pitched the tent, and set up in the business. I plas-
tered a few bills around the township, and with
Skinny tucked away inside the turban we sat down
to wait for the influx of the population. That was
the first mistake that Nigger seemed to have made.
The rustics gathered around the tent all right, but
that was as far as they got. All day we only had two
customers. Skinny took a handful of sand, spilled
it on the floor, and told them that he saw money if
they were the seventh daughters of a seventh wife.
When we closed up for the night Skinny looked
at me.
“Scut,” he said, “I’ve a feeling we’ve been
robbed.”
“Maybe we’ve just struck a bad spot,” I said.
“The next town might pick up the trade.”
But the next town wasn’t any different. Skinny
took to wearing his turban and his robes around town
for the publicity, but it did no good. The only
change was that, instead of two customers, Jam Sandra
had only one. We were just about fed up with it,
but there was nothing else to do except finish the cir-
cuit and get back to the city for a quiet word with
Nigger. While we were on the road there was always
the chance that something would turn up.
And something did turn up in the very next town.
We’d hardly opened the booth when up dashed a
woman. She took one look at me standing outside
the tent, and, holding her fist under my nose, she
said: “So ’e’s got some’n else spruikin’ for ’im?
Where is ’e? I got business with ’im.” And before
I could say a word she dived into the tent. . I fol-
lowed, wondering what it was all about.
It was pretty dark in the tent, but I could see
well enough to see that the lady had a firm hold of
Skinny’s left ear.
“What’s the trouble?” I said.
“Wot’s the trouble?” piped the lady. “Nothin’s
the trouble except that I’m a poor deserted wife —
except I been waitin’ six munce fer ’im to come back
when ’e promised faithful to be back in a week —
except I married ’im. I’m ’is squaw, that’s wot I am.
I’m Mrs. Jam Sandra.” She shook Skinny’s ear and
Skinny with it.
I couldn’t do anything, I was struck dumb, and
Skinny was too busy trying to save what was left of
his ear. But while I wasn’t saying anything I was
watching the lady. She could have made two of
Skinny, and any one of her muscles was equal to all
of Skinny’s. He didn’t have a chance.
“Listen,” I yelled, “there’s some mistake some-
where.”
She turned on me. “If it is, it’s the one I made
when I married him. I wouldn’a’ minded so much
on’y for me money.”
“What money?”
She screwed up her face. “Wot money? Why, the
fifty quid I’d bin savin’ fer years. Took it all, ’e did.
Said ’e’d be back in a week wiv it.”
“Listen,” said I. “You’re makin’ a pardonable
mistake, lady. This ain’t the same Jam Sandra that
was here six months ago. The business is under new
management.”
The lady straightened up.
“Ho,” she said, “you ain’t tryin’ to tell me I don’
know me own ’usban’ by any chance? Ain’t it the
same tent? Ain’t it the same name? Ain’t it the
same everything? Wha’d’yer take me fer? Me name
ain’t Dave.”
Skinny had begun to find his voice by now and
he was putting in a protest.
“Hoi,” he yelped, “ain’t you got no eyes in your
’ead? I ain’t like your ’usban’. I ain’t like Nigger.”
“Nigger?” said the lady, suddenly letting go of
his ear. “ ’Oo’s talkin’ about Niggers?”
“Nigger Fox,” said Skinny, “the feller who mar-
ried you. The feller who we bought the show off.”
The lady stood up and stuck her hands on her
hips.
“Ho,” she said, “I didn’t marry no Nigger Fox.
I was married proper to Jam Sandra with witnesses.”
“Listen,” said Skinny, “the light ain’t no good in
here. Let’s get outside an’ you can see me.”
EVENTUALLY she decided to come outside, but
' I had a lot of trouble trying to keep her away
from Skinny’s ear. She seemed to think that he was
getting ready to make a bolt for it.
“There you are,” said Skinny ; “I ain’t the same
Jam Sandra you married.”
“Ho,” said the lady, “ ’ow long are yer gonna
keep that tale up? A course yer ’im. I got the mar-
riage certificate to prove it.”
That gave me an idea.
“Where is it?” I asked. “Where’s your proof
you’re married to him?”
The lady looked as though she was ready to
crow. She dived her hand into her bag and brought
it out flourishing the certificate. She opened it out
and I looked over her shoulder for the signature—
there was a big cross on it in the place for the bride-
groom’s signature, and right next to it someone had
written “Jam Sandra, His Mark!”
“Listen, lady,” I said as soon as I recovered,
“that ain’t my friend’s signature because he can
write.”
“ ’E learned quick,” said the lady, “or maybe ’e
ain’t so keen about signin’ ’is name to marriage
lines.”
Skinny was looking miserable.
“Hones’, lady,” he said, “I ain’t your ’usban’. It’s
Nigger Fox you’re married to. I can give you ’is
address an’ you can go an’ see ’im.”
“Ho,” said the lady, “so yer can git away, eh?
No, yer don’. Yer gonna stay wiv me, an’ yer
needn’ worry, it ain’t fer love ; all I wants out of it is
me fifty quid back.”
She turned round suddenly, stuck two fingers in
her mouth and let out a terrific whistle. Before I
had a chance to swing my head round we had a
visitor. He was a feller who looked as though he
came from the same species as the lady. He wore a
shirt with short sleeves, and the sleeves were filled up
with muscles. He took one look at Skinny and tried
to roll his sleeves.
“R-r-r-r,” he said, “I been waitin’ to see yer fer
a long time. I ain’t f’give yer fer breakin’ up our
’Etty’s ’appiness.”
“Listen,” said Skinny, “it’s all a ’orrible mistake.
I ain’t the Jam Sandra that married this lady. We


trainer about some complicated piece of track-tactics
that we couldn’t quite understand. He said that he
was going to shove the big Dago straight through the
fence on Boxing Day, or any time sooner that he got
the chance. It was very interesting, but after a while
Bill Wellington got dressed and went home. There
weren’t so many left. The sports were over, and the
electric lights were on in the training-room. No one
had taken any notice of us, so we got brave and went
over to the horizontal bar. We started to swing about
on it and Chook started to show off.
Chook did a full-arm swing and said he’d learned
it at a gymnasium he’d gone to the year before. He
said he’d got sick of the gymnasium because most
of the kids were just sissies, and he said that he’d bet
none of us were game to even try it. He was right,
too, but it was the way he said it. I’d been angry
with myself and Chook most of the day, and though I
knew I couldn’t do it and didn’t think I’d even be
game to try, a lot of words spilled out of me before I
could stop them.
“Aw, you think you’re the only one that can do
anything,” I said. “My dad taught me to do that.”
“Well, you have a go then,” said Chook. “You
have a go, clever.”
I climbed up on to the bar and sat on it. It was
a high bar, made for men, and I almost fell off
when I saw the hard, concrete slabs such a long way
below. The mob were looking at me, and Chook was
grinning. I felt sick with fright and anger, but I
lowered myself to hang by my arms, and swung to
and fro. I’d try, even if I smashed myself to pieces
on the concrete, I thought. But I knew I wasn’t game.
My throat hurt, and I could feel tears coming.
“Out o’ the way, nipper,” someone said behind
me, and I looked around and saw that it was O’Reilly,
the bike-rider.
I was thankfully ready to let go, but before I
could open my fingers O’Reilly’s big hands gripped
me, one under each armpit. He threw me up as if I
weighed nothing, and sat me on top of the bar again.
It was just as far from the floor as ever, but it seemed
quite safe with the bike-rider’s big shoulders under-
neath and his face grinning up at me.
“All right, young ’un. You have a go first,” said
O’Reilly. “Only no full-arm swings, like I saw your
cobber do, or you’ll break your cranky little neck.
Now, hang on to the bar.”
His strong fist gave me a gentle shove, and the
world turned upside down. When things were right
way round again, his other great hand was under me.
He got me going like a windmill, and I soon fielt
dizzy. t But I never thought about the floor or had
any impulse to leave go. I just felt proud, and thought
what a fine fellow and how much bigger and stronger
and better than Chook O’Reilly was. And I had an
occasional, blurred glimpse of the jealous faces of the
mob which did me good. When he put me down,
laughing, and started to throw his own great weight
about with his own great muscles, I sat on the near-
est bench quickly so I wouldn’t fall over. I laughed,
with what little breath I had left.
“Golly!” I said to the mob. “He’s got some
strength all right. When he grabs y’—even gentle, like
he grabbed me —y’ can feel the muscles in his fingers
just like an ord’nary feller’s arms.”
Chook glared, and the rest looked jealous, but
none of them said anything. I knew I’d get it from
Chook when we were going home, though, and I did.
“Y/OU’RE gettin’ too cocky, young Bill,” Chook
* said. “I’ve had nothin’ but trouble with you
lately.”
He grabbed me and started to twist my arm, and
he must have felt pretty bad, because he twisted it so
much worse than usual that I can remember the pain
now. A couple of men went past in the dusk, and
they laughed at the kids’ squabble and walked on. I
hated those men, and I could feel Chook’s weight
bearing on my arm, so that I was sure it would snap.
But my head was still in the clouds about O’Reilly
and I was defiant.
“You seen me kick one bloke out o’ the mob
to-day,” said Chook. “Well, I think I’ll kick you out
now, see?”
“You can go to hell,” I said. “I was goin’ to
pull out of your stinkin’ mob anyway.”
Chook dropped my arm and stood staring at me.
He wasn t threatening. He looked perplexed, and
when I think back on it he looked a good deal like
the dopey, thick-witted sort of man he’s grown into
since.
Aw, I didn’t mean it, Bill,” he said. “You know
I wouldn’t kick you out o’ the mob.”
At the moment I didn’t care, though when I
calmed down I decided it was a good mob, and stuck
to it for a year or two after. I got back into the way
of admiring Chook, too, though I don’t think I ever
thought so much of him as before. He kept on bully-
ing me a bit, but he used to be careful with me.* He
used to take it out on Skeeter. But, of course, we all
grew up and grew out of it in time, and if I had to
be any one of the old mob, bar myself, now I’d rather
be either Skeeter or Plugger, or even Brownie whom
we kicked out that day, than Chook.
only bought the business a week ago. I ain’t been
near this place before in me life.”
“That’s a tale they been tryin’ to pitch to me,”
said the lady. “As if I don’ know me own ’usban’.
Don’ you take no notice, Joe.”
Joe pulled himself up and looked more threaten-
ing than ever.
“R-r-r-r,” he said. “’E don’ want to live up to
’is marriage vows, eh?”
“Yer needn’ worry,” said the lady. “’E ain’t
worth the love of a good woman. But ’e ain’t gonna
git away wiv that fifty poun’s he took from me.”
Joe started to roll his sleeves again, and I could
see Skinny beginning to shrink.
“R-r-r-r,” said Joe. “An’ wot about the twenty
’e got from me fer the weddin’?”
“Yeah,” said I sarcastically, “and what about the
two bob he borrowed from your baby brother?”
The lady gave a yelp.
“There you are,” she said, “that proves it, Joe.
On’y it wasn’t two bob he borrowed ’orf young
Larry, it was two poun’ ten. We’ll take ’im to court,
Joe. We got' ’is signature on the marriage lines wiv
you an’ Bob Storey as witnesses —that oughter prove it.”
“It corsts money t’ go t’ court,” said Joe, scratch-
ing his head. “It’d take time, too. An’ I’d have ter
take ’im out to the farm to keep watch on ’im so ’e
wouldn’ run away.”
The lady looked thoughtful. “P’raps yer right,
Joe.” She turned to Skinny. “I’ll tell yer wot I’m
willin’ t’ do. Me love fer you is gorn now. Give me
back the money yer took an’ yer can go yer way.”
“Yeah,” said Joe, “an’ my money, too, an’ young
Larry’s.”
Skinny looked at me and I looked at Skinny.
There didn’t seem to be anything for it. Skinny
pulled up the Oriental robe and stuck his hand in his
pocket.
The lady took the dough in her big fist. “I
dunno,” she said, “why I ever fell in love wiv yer.
Now I can git a good look at yer in the daylight I
can see yer ain’t a man’s bootlace. Me ’eart was
broke when yer went away,” she went on. “But I
dunno ; even now I’d be willin’ t’ ’ave yer back if yer
wants to, if yer still got a little bit of love fer me.”
I could see Skinny shudder.
“Lady,” he said, “I ain’t Jam Sandra, I ain’t
married, and I don’t want to be.”
Joe winked at me. “ ’Ark at ’im,” he said. “If he
ain’t wot did ’e pay the money for?”
“R-r-r-r,” said Skinny, and then he turned to me.
“Scut,” he said, “pack up the things. There’s a train
leavin’ for Sydney in half an hour—we’ll be on it.”
Half an hour later we sat in the train talking
over the best ways of murdering Nigger Fox.
DUT when we got back to town Nigger seemed to
*—' have vanished, and no one seemed to know where
he was. Then a couple of weeks later we bumped
into Rusty Nailer. Rusty was an old friend of ours
and we talked over a lot of things over a lot of drinks.
“Rusty,” said Skinny, “I don’ s’pose you’ve seen
anything of Nigger Fox lately?”
I was surprised the way Rusty took the question.
“I wish I could come across the rat,” he said ;
“I got a lot of things to talk about.”
“What’s he done to you?” said Skinny, looking
interested.
“What’s ’e done?” said Rusty. “I’ll tell you
what ’e done. ’E sold me an Indian fortune-teller
outfit, ’e give me a woman I wouldn’ ’ave ’ad for a
mother-in-law for a wife, an’ ’e corst me all the
dough I ’ad to get out of it. An’ if I git my ’ands on
’im maybe it’ll corst me my neck, but ’e’d be worth
swinging for.”
Skinny was looking as though he’d been struck
by lightning.
“Rusty,” he said when he recovered his breath,
“if you ain’t got enough dough to buy a gun or
poison or a knife or a rope, you can come to me.
An’ when it’s over I’ll sell my soul to get you the
best lawyer possible.”
COMPETITION
BY G. C. B.
THE way Mrs. Biles talks about loafers and rat-
catchers in the same breath is ’ighly insultin’,
but I suppose it’s only natural for ’er, bein’ the
doctor’s wife, to feel a bit of professional
jealousy towards me because of the efficient way I
keeps down disease-ca'rryin’ rats. ’Owever, I never
lets me personal feelin’s interfere with me work, and
I sets traps at the Biles’s ’ouse regular and conscien-
tious. Matter of fact, I looks forward to me visits
there, because Dixon, their gardener, likes ’is little
drop of a moinin’ and can’t stand drinkin’ alone.
But one mornin’ I gets a unpleasant shock when
Mrs. Biles comes up the lawn with two fox-terriers
friskin’ around ’er and tells me that it won’t be neces-
sary for me to pay no more professional visits.
“We ’ave our own ratcatchers now, Raggles,”
she ses, pattin’ one of the dogs. “They really catches
rats.”
“I’m surprised at you, Mrs. Biles,” I ses severe.
“A doctor’s wife ought to know better. Why, dogs
about the ’ouse is worse than rats for carryin’ fleas.”
“Nonsense! ” she ses sharp. “These dogs is clean,
Dixon sees to that; and they’re wonderful ratters.
If more people kept dogs the council wouldn’t need
your services, such as they are.”
“Not at all, Mrs. Biles,” I ses quietly.. “People
won’t keep dogs wot kills rats and then comes and
licks the ’ands wot feeds ’em, as the sayin’ is.”
All the same, I wasn’t no more pleased at havin’
competition than Dr. Biles would be if I started sellin’
them ’Ome Doctor books in me spare time; and
when I slips into the garage where Dixon was waitin’
I found that he wasn’t pleased about them dogs
neither.
“That woman thinks I’m a slave,” he ses as we
settles down comfortable in ’er car. “It’s bad enough
tryin’ to keep me lawns good and havin’ to run
around arrangin’ chairs and tables for ’er afternoon-
tea parties every week and clean up the mess after-
wards without havin’ to bath ’er bloomin’ dogs. One
of these days them dogs is goin’ to eat somethin’ wot
don’t agree with ’em.”
“I ’ope, Dixon,” I ses severe, “you ain’t thinkin’
of doin’ nothin’ unkind to them pore dumb animals.”
“I ain’t been thinkin’ of nothin’ else since they
come ’ere,” he snaps.
“That sort of thing ain’t no good, Dixon,” I ses,
shakin’ my ’ead. “Mrs. Biles will just get more dogs.
And it ain’t necessary: all you ’ave to do is show
’er ’ow full of fleas them dogs is and she’ll change
’er mind about keepin’ ’em.”
He points out that he ain’t ’ardly seen a flea on
em, but I ints that there might be a way of over-
comin that; and when I sneaks into the garage next
day I brings a paper-bag with a few of the fleas wot
I collects regular to study for plague. I ’ad intended
givin em to im so he could let Mrs. Biles think
they was one day s catch off ’er dogs, but wot with
listenin to im grumblin about ’is lawns and the
afternoon-tea parties, and havin’ to clear out quick
when Mrs. Biles comes for ’er car, I leaves ’em on
the seat and forgets all about ’em.
I DIDN’T give them fleas another thought till that
evenin’, when Mrs. Raggles, quite excited, tells me
about Mrs. Biles’s extraordinary be’avior.
“Gone off ’er ’ead,” ses Mrs. Raggles. “Comes
tearin’ up the street in ’er car at about a ’undred miles
an hour, goin’ from side to side and jumpin’ up and
down in ’er seat like a Jack-in-the-box or somethin’.
And when Constable Piggot stops ’er she gets out
and starts dancin’ round and round ’im right in the
middle of the street and liftin’ up ’er clothin’ some-
thin’ disgustin’. I can’t think wot come over ’er.”
Of course, I see straightaway wot ’ad come over
’er, but I didn’t say nothin’ to no one except old
Dixon. Unfortunately, when I did tell ’im I struck
’im in a bad mood, on account of it bein’ Mrs. Biles’s
afternoon-tea day, and he works off some of ’is
temper on me.
“I got a good mind to go and tell ’er,” he ses, ’arf
chokin’. “I got the blame for them fleas, and ever
since she’s been standin’ over me while I wash and
comb ’er dogs.”
“Washin’ and combin’ don’t make no difference,”
I ses. “Dogs pick up fleas quicker than you can comb
’em out. As it ’appens, I ’ave a few ’ere wot you
could slip in their bath-water just to show Mrs.
Biles”
“Git out!” snaps Dixon. “Go on. Git out and
take your fleas with you. You’ve caused enough
trouble as it is.”
I kept tryin’ to reason with ’im, but it was a
waste of time, so in the end I walks off in disgust.
Still, I leaves them fleas behind in case he changed
’is mind, and pointed out to ’im to be careful not
to let ’em get loose among them seagrass-chairs wot
he ’ad to lay out on the lawn.
If he ’ad been listenin’ to me instead of buttin’
in every time I opens me mouth, it would ’ave been
different, but as it was he mucked things up proper,
as I finds out that afternoon when I ’appened to be
passin’ the Biles’s.
There was such a row cornin’ from the garden
I could ’ardly believe there was only tea bein’ drunk
there, especially when I sees the Mayoress, very red
in the face, tryin’ to walk to the gate dignified and
do a ’ula-’ula dance at the same time. I was even
more surprised when a lot of other ladies comes
’oppin’ and skippin’ after ’er like silly kids ; but when
them fox-terriers come skiddin’ out the gate, yelpin’
their ’ardest and follered close by Mrs. Biles screamin’
insults at ’em, I understands.
The ’ole thing was a most unfortunate bit of care-
lessness on Dixon’s part; but after a while me and
’im give up worryin’ about it. After all, there ain’t
been a dog or a afternoon-tea party at the Biles’s
since, so that’s somethin’.


divorcee, so Claude found himself in a very tough
world. His mother and grandmother prepared him
for it by coddling.
He was a morbid and precocious child growing
up in a sweltering atmosphere of affection. His father
was the complete monster who, when he got posses-
sion of Claude, ill-treated him, starved him in the best
stepfather manner, and would not allow him to see
his mother even when she was at death’s door.
The author, with all his careful heightening of the
emotional background, is hard put to it to find the
necessary minimum of drama in the life of this
secluded adolescent, so he introduces a railway acci-
dent, the death of Claude’s tutor’s wife, and a juvenile
love affair between Claude and his cousin Lisette, a
little girl with a lisp. These makeweights are hardly
convincing.
The style of the book is varied by introducing
slabs of the grandmother’s diary into the conven-
tional third person narrative form. If it is granted
that it was worth doing at all The Child of Divorce
displays some good qualities. The characters of both
mother and grandmother are well done, especially
the old lady. The father is too highly colored to be
credible.
Now and again there is a glimpse of the poet
himself, as when he describes Claude’s dreams or ex-
patiates on his fear of death. But these sudden spurts
of fine writing do not carry the book far, and it soon
settles down again into its mid-Victorian doldrums.
Comparison with E. M. Delafield’s Nothing Is Sacred,
recently reviewed on this page, which deals with a
similar theme, affords a study in ancient and modern
methods.
Memoirs of a Cheerful Tenor.
Making films in Vienna, with his singing days
over, Leo Slezak doesn’t care a dump what anybody
may ever have thought of him as a tenor, but he
is amusingly solicitous for appreciation of his book,
Song of Motley (Wm. Hodge and Co.).
Present commentator hasn’t even a faint recol-
lection of the tenor, having never heard of the author
in that capacity, so he will take it for granted that
Mr. Slezak was “not so long ago one of the greatest
figures in international opera” (blurb), that he sang
on a Covent Garden bill with Melba, starred at that
address and at. the Metropolitan Opera-House, and
that it was just malice when Egyptians, seeing visitors
to their country from Mr. Slezak’s home town of
Brunn, used to exclaim, “Ha, Slezak must be singing
in Brunn!”
On the other hand, recollection of Mr. Slezak’s
book is of the freshest and liveliest. Whatever sort
of tenor Mr. Slezak may have been, there can be no
question that he is a quaint and engaging writer.
He declares: “1 sweated blood over this book.” There
is no present evidence of it. One of his earliest
ambitions was to be a comedian, and all through his
book is proof that he was naturally qualified. He
has the authentic comedy outlook on life, which he
appears to have enjoyed enormously.
Son of a Moravian miller, his schooldays were
dull but not uneventful. He takes the opportunity
on his first page of stating that “the report that he
spent 11 years in the first form is, to say the least
of it, a gross exaggeration.” He doesn’t give the
precise time, but he leaves the impression that it
couldn’t have been more than 10 years. Intended at
first for the civil service, on the attractive precept
“They get nothing, but at least they are sure of it,”
he put in his study-time reading stories about Red
Indians and prairie chivalry to such purpose that,
feeling like a hero, he pleaded guilty to so many
other boys’ misdeeds that he suddenly found himself
dumped out in the street with all his schoolbooks
and paraphernalia.
Next he sold plum pulp and did a term in the
army, which he thanks for his notable physique;
meanwhile he kept scratching away at stage-doors,
and got going at last on a career which took him to
America, London and elsewhere. Setting out for
America, he and his wife were advised as to all sorts
of “infallible” remedies for seasickness, including
gauze bags filled with chopped parsley, to be worn
on their tummies, slung on long tapes round their
necks. This remedy had to be employed before em-
barkation, so they set off from Vienna with their
heavy bags of parsley slung:—•
By the time we reached Salzburg we were pretty
depressed by the penetrating odor of the parsley. Before
we got to Munich I felt so bad that I wanted to leap
off the train while it was in motion, and was barely
deterred from doing so by thoughts of my wife and
children. It was only after we had let a bus-horse in
Paris eat the parsley and the gauze bags that we felt
better.
In U.S.A. he soon learned not to be surprised
by anything, however fantastic or shocking to his
dignity or conscience, that his press agent cared to
concoct for publication. Thus arose the legend:—•
Slezak’s crazy—gone mad —can only sing with a
goat at the end of a string.
The goat had been borrowed from a Polish Jew
in the steerage, and with it and a tortoise Slezak
had consented to be photographed for publicity pur-
poses. Another press-agent concoction was that he
was so big and strong because he’d always gone bare-
footed, from which evolved the newspaper announce-
ment that he sang in his bare feet.
As another example he instances his having been
asked by Madame Alda, when he was playing Othello
to her Desdemona, to “handle her as gently as pos-
sible in the third act” because-she was suffering
internally and feared it might be appendicitis. He
duly handled her with great tenderness, but that
didn’t save her from an operation later in the night.
Next day’s papers had his picture as Othello labelled
“Rough Russian Tenor Breaks Madame Alda’s
Appendix!” In the next town he was applauded
with: “Giant Czech Appendix-breaker Wins Audi-
ence.” It was “Othello” they played at Houston,
Texas, with the programme-story of the opera open-
ing:—
ACT T.
A Port in Cyprus.
The populace are kneeling in prayer for Othello,
whose ship is in great danger in a violent tempest at
sea. The peril is overcome, Othello enters and greets
the people with the words:
Do all your cooking with “Krusto,” the famous
cooking-fat.
“Let us rejoice! The Turk is overthrown and cast
into the sea.” The people cheer Othello!
And so on, until:
There is a great noise and Othello enters and calls
out in a terrible voice
“Krusto” lias no rivals.
“Down with your swords!”
“Krusto” figures thus throughout the programme-
story of all four acts of the opera, the story con-
cluding:—
Having strangled Desdemona, Othello stabs himself
in the breast, and while dying sings the moving words
Always insist on “Krusto,” the only genuine
cooking-fat.
“Kiss me, kiss me once again”—and expires.
Another of his “Othello” experiences happened
when they played the opera in a circus building, with
the accompanying odors of the menagerie. Having
travelled all day from their previous stand, and the
performance, due to begin at 8, not getting on the
way till after 10, he was so dog-tired when it came
to the business of strangling Desdemona that he
could just manage to stand and mutter to her, “Please
go and die by yourself, I’m all in!” Desdemona
mounted to her couch and passed out unassisted.
Also typical of his recollections is that of his
entrance in a performance of “Aida” at Graz, in a
chariot drawn by two performers whom he had in-
judiciously described as “figures of fun”:
The trumpets sounded a fanfare, and amidst the
acclamations of all Egypt my bosom swelled with all
my victories. All of a sudden the pin connecting the
pole with the chariot fell out, the pole came away in
the hands of the two Egyptian errand-boys, the two-
wheeled contraption tipped over and I lost my balance
and landed on my head. The two chorus-men bolted,
while the people of Egypt gazed upon their fallen war-
lord with unconcealed delight.
From another accident he was to gather that
publicity-faking had its disadvantages. He fell down
a lift-well. He denies the report published in the
press at the time that he had landed on the lift at
the bottom, smashing it to atoms, but insists that it
was a fair accident, adding:
This incident brought me quite a number of rude
letters from several countries, accusing me of vulgar
publicity, and expressing regret that I had not broken
my neck. Such is my popularity.
Signing himself at the end “Leo Slezak, Singing
Author, Vienna,” he winds up hoping that, contrary
to his worst fears, his book will provide readers with
a little entertainment. He needn’t worry.
Just So-So Stories.
Fourteen items have been collected from various
popular American magazines to make up The Pieces
of a Fan, by Vincent Sheean (Hamish Hamilton).
The flavor of their origin clings to them. However
pleasing and competent they are —and they are both —
it is hard to see why they have been gathered into
the comparatively expensive form of a book ; there
will be plenty more like them every week, every
month in the better-style journals. They are so
smooth as to be at once impeccable and featureless.
The first, “Reunion,” is the best. It tells how
Henry Sinkins inherited 500 dollars from an aunt
and spent it all in one glorious burst, impressing all
the other commonplace men at his college fraternity
reunion with his success.
The other stories are concerned with the most
successful function in a social climber’s life her
funeral; an incident in the life of Madame de Pom-
padour, reconstructed from a broken fan in a
museum ; an American woman who pursued writers
in the hope that they would “ruin her reputation in
one of their novels” ; a theatrical family feud in the
hills of Virginia ; a husband who was jealous of his
wife’s piano ; an old maid who nearly landed a ship s
purser ; an innkeeper who died of success ; an actress
who couldn’t stop acting ; a wife whose husband s
forgiveness drove her to suicide —and so on.
Despite their diversity they have much in com-
mon. A practised irony is adroitly used as the solvent
in story after story, many of them being no more than
skilfully-managed paradoxes.
Ireland to Africa.
Joyce Cary’s Castle Corner (Gollancz), successor
to African Witch, favorably reviewed by this page a
year ago, deals with the last two decades of the nine-
teenth century. . .
It lives completely in its time, and is written in
the appropriate Victorian manner, slow and spacious.
Never does it betray that familiar vulgarity or the
poorer sort of period novel —the author’s wink to his
reader and the sly innuendo, “Funny, aren t they.
We know better now.” It gives two full-length pictures
the first of Ireland in the time of the troubles :
At that time the Irish Question gave as much excite-
ment to millions as a war. It was a battlefield open
every day to the humblest. In Dublin 30,000 Parnellites,
with ivy leaves in their buttonholes, execrated by 50,000
Healyites, went to the chief’s grave. In Dunvil boys
stoned each other. At Aldershot an Irish regiment
broke into civil war, but united in the first week of the
general election to fight an English one.
There was a great deal of zest about the whole
affair, and it was saved from black tragedy by a
streak of cheerful irresponsibility and a poetic flair
for gesture. The second picture is of Africa in the
first blush of expansion and the Companies:
All the young men of any enterprise are going to
Africa. They feel that big things are going to happen
there. In the sixteenth century it was South America
and the Spanish Main; in the seventeenth. North
America; in the eighteenth, India; now it’s Africa, and
now is the time to go.
The two pictures are knit together by the Corner
family, who inhabit both. They are Protestant land-
owners in Catholic Ireland, loved and hated by their
peasantry, whom they oppress and succor. The story
begins with an eviction averted at the last moment by
sentiment. John Charles Corner, called John Chass,
is the hereditary villain of the neighborhood and the
natural hero. The Corners export their misfits to
Africa. Felix, who looks like a philosopher, gets the
Company fever, goes out to the Mosi with his share
of the family fortune, and, after going native for
several years in his amiable lazy fashion, returns home
to be lionised.
Harry Jarvie, called Cocky, soldiers in Africa
and performs incredible deeds by the sheer weight of
his unimaginativeness. The story of his campaigns
is a richly funny one. The whole book is rich, but
especially in its myriad characters. They are all real,
from Sukey, the tragicomic cook at Castle Corner, to
Mary, John Chass’s plain French wife. Each in his
own scene is given full scope and importance. It is
this that makes the novel so long and imposes a certain
patience on the reader.
Roughly, the forefront of the book is occupied
by three young men, Cleeve, son of Felix, the mer-
curial, unstable boy finally subdued to the family
pattern; Harry, the stolid adventurer; and Phillip
Feenix, who goes over to Black Ireland, is devoured
by obscure melancholy and inconsequent grief, till
his early death, partly by accident, partly by intent.
The times crystalise round these three.
One of the most charming aspects of Castle
Corner is in its tender and natural portraits of
children—Shony, the only son who died when he
was five ; Finian, Theresa and others. It is hard to
think of a novel that brings such sane and human
treatment to perplexed and controversial issues.
Various Verse
Perfume Counter.
The girls behind the perfume counter
Have mouths like pursed anemones;
Their made-up eyes are drowning bees
Caught in some honeyed tangle,
And their hair
Is sculptured into curls. They have the air
Of Eastern odalisques, these girls who stay
Day after day
Lapped by a thousand perfumes—
Drifts of rose
And lily, every lovely flower that blows —
Touching with languid fingertips
Tall bottles sharp and cold
As splintered icicles —
Long, green glass drips
Stoppered in gold.
Exotic creatures, these, who hasten home
When work is done
To ugly little close-set houses where the sun
Slides by the walls,
And where the smell of gas and gravy floats
Through dingy halls
Above the stuffiness
Of* men’s felt hats and shoes and rubber coats!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
Dew Into Laurel.
Quiet in my blue cloak
Your green dance of glass;
Melt in its fire the mirror
Of the cold-nippled grass.
My love, with a wave of blue
Overthrown is that black virgin
To whom your tides are true.
But no; across the meadow
Your crystal flame is fleet,
And through the ferns like water
Silver from pebbled feet.
Alas from joy of day
That black prowling virgin
Calls your white tide away.
The crash and chime of twelve
In all my templed blood
With its blue holy clamor
Strikes stillness through the wood;
And ah with a wave of white
She trembles to the cloak
That folds about delight.
Too late! As that blue glitter
Towers to its peak of flame
My hands from thigh or breast
Drop down in grief and shame
At flesh that into dark
Branches away in leaves
And the harsh taste of bark.
Green nymph, my cloak was death,
But kinder the folding fire
Would slay your bones of dew
Than this cold leaf and lyre.
I watch your lost tree-body
Branching and withering,
And wrap my blue cloak round me
And weep that I must sing.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


OPEN YOUR EYES & MIND
Let the World’s Great Thinkers
Improve Your Mind and Personality
F\ESPITE the different conditions of modern
life the problems we face to-day are the
same as those that have exercised the minds
of the world’s greatest philosophers. Aristotle,
Plato, Bacon, Voltaire, Havelock Ellis—all these
great minds have pondered the problems of
life. Their conclusions, their solutions, are now
available in this twenty volume library. For a
10/- deposit you can have these great thinkers
to aid you in overcoming the difficulties of
daily life.
What Philosophy does for You!
The man with a knowledge of philosophy has a mental
balance that enables him to meet the disappointments
of life and to seize opportunities when they present
themselves. He has a poise
and confidence that comes
from a full understanding of
the world’s great minds; he
has something of their serene
courage, depending not only
on himself but also on those
great men who have given him a rule
of life. His conversation is listened to
and respected; whatever he says carries
weight.
A few minutes spent each day
studying the volumes of this Library of
the World’s Great Thinkers will
develop your mental powers so that you
can meet and conquer difficulties that
now depress you. Your acquaintance
with the world’s great minds will
broaden your outlook, increase your
interests, and develop your personality
so that you will' impress people as a
man of culture—factors which mean
success.
PH
:
**«
P
a **s*r
"““"■fc.W
[ •
m
:■■■-’
Me
I
«as
r ? m fjh- & m
% :€?//7 f§ *f •.&
• t§ C Iff t& k
ii . %##/j
**» **»s.
S> :*
"-■'>■
■ ■■
ss
®9.
■i
Ste
S*
"Bsb
SS
A
/
THE LIBRARY OF THE
WORLD'S GREAT
THINKERS
NOTE
THESE TITLESf
BACON, VOLTAIRE, SPINOZA,
ARISTOTLE, CONFUCIUS, PLATO,
MONTAIGNE, FREUD, DARWIN, GOETHE,
TOLSTOY, FRANKLIN, ROUSSEAU, EMERSON,
NIETZSCHE, JOHN DEWEY, SCHOPENHAUER, HAVELOCK ELLIS,
KARL MARX, THOMAS PAINE.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
if,
m
HANDSOME
DE LUXE BINDING
These fine books are worthy of
a place in any booklover’s
library. Each of these de luxe
volumes measures inches by
inches, richly bound in
“lifetime” binding of two-
toned Royal Blue Silk Weave
cloth. Inlaid panels, gold titles
and decorations with coloured
end sheets. Stained and
polished page tops, mercerized
head bands.
In these twenty volumes you
have the philosophy of all ages
and nations—from Plato and
Aristotle in Greece, Confucius
in China, Bacon in England, to
Emerson in America and Freud
in Austria. All these, and
fourteen other great minds, are
here to interest, entertain and
instruct you.
Available on
EASY TERMS
You can secure these twenty
volumes of the World’s Great
Thinkers for a deposit of 10/-;
the balance can be paid in con-
venient monthly payments of
12/6. Or if you prefer to pay
cash the price is £7/19/6.
Theye is a set of these fine
books waiting for you; fill in
and post the order form below
to-dayl
CONFUCIUS
PLATO
TOLSTOY
SCHOPENHAUER
EMERSON
VOLTAIRE
ARISTOTLE
MONTAIGNE
FREUD
ROUSSEAU
JOHN
QjEWEY
HAVELOCK
ELL S
nr
KARL
MARX
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
ORDER FORM
Please send me the “Library of the World’s Great Thinkers,” 20
volumes, for which I enclose a deposit of 10/- and agree to make 13
further monthly instalments of 12/6 —£8/12/6 in all: or I will pay
£7/19/6 cash within 30 days of delivery.
NAME
OCCUPATION
ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS
B. 31/8/’3B


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
m ■ '
I
wrnmmwm
*ma*r
.'• ***
V
L
V;
\
i4n Idea of Portion of One of the Vast Storage Cellars .


THE LIGHT THAT NEVER FAILS.
"Australia is look down on the people of the South American republics, but their libraries put ours to shame. A country without modern free libraries is a backward,
country.” —Speaker at the Free Library Movement’s annual meeting.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521BB; ’Phone B7971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street. London ,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. ( Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques )
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, 8s.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3 s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE BLACK PLAGUE.
There are signs that the Government at Canberra
will need assistance in its tardy campaign against the
plague of sex-and-horror magazines. It should enlist
the services of Mr. H. M. Cremean, the M.L.A. for
Clifton Hill (Vic.). Mr. Cremean seems more forth-
right in these matters than Mr. Perkins, and less liable
to blunder.
Mr. Cremean has no use for “the bookseller who
disseminates dirty literature.” Borrowing an expression
from The Bulletin, he likens booksellers of this type
to “the dirty niggers who sell the dirty postcards at
Port Said.” He mentions with shame that there are
brazen specimens in his own city of Melbourne.
Mr. Cremean saw in a shop window “a book
entitled Bed for Beginners, Being a Gentleman's
Guide to Scientific Seduction in Eight Easy Lessons.”
He decided to buy it “in order to produce it in the
House,” but when he called again “it had disappeared
from the window.”
He did, however, buy “a copy of an American
magazine which is on sale in all the dirty booksellers’
shops in Melbourne.”
The first article is headed “Virgins Are in Style
Again.” A description of a virgin is given: “A homely
little girl who can run faster than her brother.” At the
end is what is called a “Chastity Chart.” The whole
article is a sneer at chastity. In the same publication
is an article that lauds prostitution.
Mr. Cremean produced in the House “another
American publication full of stories making light of
immorality and prostitution.”
Two other magazines are filled with pictures of half-
undressed women in what is known in America as the
strip-tease style. One of the advertisements relates to a
book called Sex Life in Prison—What Happens When
Men and Women Are Deprived of Sex Mates for Long
Periods.
And there are “publications which cannot be exhibited
on shop counters,” but which can be “produced to
those whom the bookseller knows as voracious readers
of this class of matter.” Or the appetite can be
whetted by advertisements for them, the following
being an example:
No novel published in the last 10 years can compare
with Black Lust in disturbing diabolic sexuality.
This massive volume is an encyclopedia of venery,
a kaleidoscope of horrors, a jungle of perversions.
What a theatre of sexual scenes this book presents!
Then there is Sexual Perversion in Men and Women,
described as “the great companion volume to Un-
trodden Fields of Anthropology.” And Whipped
Nell, “the story of wild sadistic lust which was sup-
pressed.”
The most gripping account of erotic flagellation,
desire and masochism ever written, in which each act
is graphically described.
And Forbidden Pleasures, “a novel of a libertine.”
Flaming with many dazzling descriptions of coarse,
captivating love affairs, forbidden pleasures, brothels,
prostitutes, revels and lawless debaucheries which were
indulged in by an amorous young man.
And Violent Love:
A throbbing and exciting story of violent, pagan and
forbidden love in which are stirringly described many
thrilling scenes of rape, lust, sexuality and sadistic
tortures.
Mr. Cremean is a social worker. As chairman
of the Widows’ Pensions and Child Endowment Select
Committee he has visited many State institutions; at
Kew he was told that 25 per cent, of the inmates of
the children’s cottages “are there because of con-
genital disease.” He made inquiries as to the incidence
of V.D. in Victoria, and was informed that from
1916-17, in which year 8231 cases were notified,
there had been a steady annual fall in notifications to
3223 cases in 1935-36.
But in the last three years, the period in which the
display and sale of indecent books have become ram-
pant, a 23 p.c. increase has been recorded. For the year
to June 30, 1938, the number of cases notified was
3964.
Public Health reports show a corresponding increase
in N. S. Wales. Notifications numbered 5226 in 1929,
5225 in 1930, 4617 in 1931, 4842 in 1932, 4809 in 1933,
4721 in 1934 and 4829 in 1935. Then came a rise
to 5160 in 1936, and another to 5612 in 1937 ; and the
upward tendency continues —indeed, 1938 figures are
expected to be the worst for many years. And the
medical authorities admit that such statistics are never
complete, since many victims try to treat themselves
or go to quacks.
Save for a few local imitations, with which Mr.
Cremean dealt trenchantly in his speech, all the porno-
graphic magazines he mentioned come from the U.S.A.
Their appearance in that country is doubtless a result
of the great melting-pot experiment which very foolish
people are advising Australia to imitate. The peddling
of aphrodisiacs in literary or pictorial forms is foreign
to the traditional practice of every branch of the Eng-
lish-speaking race. When American art, letters and
journalism were dominated by native-born Americans
of the old stocks they were clean and healthy, sometimes
noble and inspiring. But in these days aliens of inferior
types increasingly write the songs and the books —
particularly the Bolshevik books —produce the smutty
magazines and the tabloid newspapers and make the
moving pictures; and a world which still admires
America is too apt to believe that their degenerate
performances express the genuine American spirit.
It is enough to make Emerson and Hawthorne, Twain
and Harte, Stephen Foster and Whistler turn in their
graves. ,
Silly Season.
Towards the end of summer London is empty of
politicians and other notables. Before Hitler came
political reporters, the precursors of Diplomatic Cor-
respondents, used to gloom round Whitehall with a
tombstone-reading air. Even Stalin and Mussolini
seemed torpid in August.
Hitler is more obliging. A reference to any news-
paper file will show that his preparations for the de-
struction of his fellow-Europeans invariably cul-
minate at the season when real gentlemen are away
destroying grouse.
In 1933 when he came into power, “S. M. Herald”
informed its readers that he was descended from a
Jewish family at Polna, and Mr. H. G. Wells
described his coup as a “clumsy lout’s rebellion.”
“Germany’s Preparations for War —French Warn-
ing” followed. It was announced that German
children had been forbidden to carry their weapons
to school. Then the persecution stories began:
“Communists Executed ; Socialist Tortured to Death.”
Above all: “Persecution of Jews; 100,000 Leave ;
Further 400,000 to Go When Means Available.”
The concentration camps appeared. Also, there
was a lot about Germany’s designs on the Saar.
Finally, “War Preparations; Krupps Busy; Big
Bertha and Colossal Guns Being Built.” And there
was, of course, the Reichstag fire, together with
“Growing Uneasiness about German Financial
Situation.”
In July, 1934, came a palace revolt, followed by
a “purge.” London “Daily Telegraph” was banned
in Germany; Germany itself was restless. Mr.
Wickham Steed discovered immense poison-gas prepa-
rations. The “economic situation was going from
bad to worse,” and the “economic isolation of the
Reich was complete.” Professor Charteris, of Syd-
ney University, declared that the Hitler Government
was “fighting for its life.” Young Saarlanders were
“being trained in German camps to attack Saar-
land security.” In the excitement of the “purge,” the
Jews were forgotten.
In the 1935 silly season, despite the complete
economic isolation achieved the year before, Nazi
Germany was everywhere ifiaking new trade treaties ;
but Hitler was at it again. His “Attack on Lithuania”
was considered a “Threat Endangering the Peace of
Eastern Europe.” There was a possibility of a rising
“of European Significance” in Memel. Germany’s
financial situation was “alarming.” The army
manoeuvres were “the biggest since the war” ; a “turn-
ing point in history.” There was a new wave of per-
secutions —-of Freemasons as well as Jews. Jews had
been tortured, Jewish servants dismissed, Jewish
children banned by State schools. Catholics were
added to the list of martyrs.
Despite the “Desperate Financial Situation,” a
defence loan of £58,000,000 was subscribed quickly.
Little Mr. Amery was heard warning his country
that the new German air force could lay London
in ruins. Somebody found that German “stratosphere
bombers” were being built —they have not yet
materialised.
One of Hitler’s speeches was interpreted as “a
Direct Challenge to England and Italy.” Nevertheless,
Mr. Lloyd George, after a visit to Germany, decided
that the German army was “not for attack.” The
oppressed minorities were in a more dreadful plight
than ever: “New Attack on Jews Launched by Hitler
. . . Nine Nations Give Evidence of Nazi Brutality
at Brussels . . . Nazis Seize Catholic Schools . . .
Heavy Taxation for Army Unpopular.”
The 1937 summer was much the same, with Spain
thrown in for luck. Germans in thickly-populated
areas were buying ga:s masks by order. Gibraltar
was “Ringed by Heavy German Guns.” Heavy taxa-
tion for Army was still Unpopular; nevertheless, a
special defence tax on wages was levied and a defence
loan was “heavily oversubscribed.” “Terrorism was
Revived,” with secret executions. A Jew was sen-
tenced to imprisonment for asking an Aryan girl to
go to the pictures with him.
The 1938 summer and early autumn ran
true to form. They were full of newspaper sound and
fury—or rather sound and furphies ; for, like all the
prophecies of previous Nazi years, those of 1938 will
come to nothing.
"Far-reaching Changes."
Mr. Thompson, the Assistant Minister, “speaking
from personal experience”—where and when did he
acquire it? :
We can get thousands of young Australian men and
women to flock to the Northern Territory if we provide
the necessary development.
It has taken 75 years to establish a population
of 5454 whites, half-castes and Asiatics. For about a
third of the period Federal Governments have been
providing “development.” Evidently there has been
something wrong with the “development,” or perhaps
something more than development is required.
Nine years after the Territory was transferred
to the Commonwealth, Justice Ewing, of Tasmania,
was asked to look it over, and set down his thoughts
on the Present Discontents. The discontents had
taken a serious form: three leading officials, one the
Director, had been threatened with forcible expulsion,
and had left for the South by the next boat. Said
Justice Ewing:
If the condition of affairs I found existing politically
and otherwise in the Northern Territory were to prevail
for any length of time in Tasmania, the sanest and most
peaceful of all the States, it would quickly bring about
a state of open rebellion.
He explained why dissatisfaction existed:
Under the laws and Constitution of South Australia
the people of the Territory had full rights of citizenship.
They were represented in the House of Assembly, and
had their proportionate voice in the election of members
of the Legislative Council. On the surrender of the
Territory to the Commonwealth the inhabitants ceased
to be citizens of Australia or of any State and to have
any voice whatever either in national affairs or, in any
material sense, in their own. They were called upon to
obey Commonwealth laws and to comply with local
ordinances, in the making of which they had no part, and
in most cases of which they knew little or nothing
until they were called upon to submit to them. They
lost their political rights as citizens, but remained subject
to the liability of paying taxes.
At the end of last year the Payne-Fletcher Com-
mittee reported that things were no better:
Confidence, stability, co-operative effort, progress
and the regular employment, health and happiness of the
people are the highest manifestations of good govern-
ment. Judged by this standard, the government of the
Northern Territory falls far short of what is needed.
The people have no Parliamentary representation in
the ordinary sense. They send a member to the Federal
Parliament, but he has no vote on general matters; and
they have no provincial Legislature. After years of dis-
appointment many people are settling down to a kind of
resigned hopelessness. They think that nobody is inter-
ested in them; that nobody cares unless it is to exercise
some authority. They have no say in the administration;
they cannot influence it in any way, and every now and
then they are subjected to some autocratic decree or
regulation.
Minister McEwen complains that during his
travels through the Territory he has met nobody
who was enthusiastic about the railway which
the Payne Committee suggested should be built
from Dajarra (Q.) into the heart of the Barkly Table-
land. It’s hard for anyone to be enthusiastic after
20 years of stagnation and disappointment.
Justice Ewing found the administration “full
of wasted energy.”
The service is being wastefully and inefficiently con-
ducted, and the whole system requires reorganisation.
Reorganisation with a full knowledge of the conditions
to be dealt with, and the application of at least some
of the methods which a businessman would adopt were
to be called upon to handle a similar proposition.
Messrs. Payne and Fletcher were impressed—
unfavorably—with “the division of control.”
Exasperating delays occur while questions are referred
for decision to Canberra or Melbourne, and these
decisions, when given, often....pay no regard to funda-
mental differences. Procrastination and the shelving of
decisions have characterised Territory administration.
If reports could make a community happy, the
Territorians should be the happiest community on
earth. A royal commission reported on them in 1913,
Justice Ewing in 1920, Sir George Buchanan in 1925,
the North Australia Commission in 1927-31, Messrs.
Payne and Fletcher in 1937, and a long succession of
Ministers in between. In spite of all, the Territory
has become a burden on every taxpayer in Australia.
In 25 years the Commonwealth has squandered
the best part of £15,000,000 on useless projects. The
deficit for 1936-37 was £611,000 and value of pro-
duction only £499,000.
Now “far-reaching changes” are to be made,
Mr. McEwen says. “Much greater powers of initiative
and control” are to be transferred from headquarters
at Canberra to the Administrator at Darwin, and the
Administrator will be expected to delegate some of
them to “responsible heads of specialist branches.”
There is to be “a new pastoral branch,” comprising
pastoral specialists, under a Director of Lands. There
is already a Director of Mining, and Westralian report
speaks highly of him. All this sounds well, and under
the new dispensation matters may improve—they
could scarcely grow worse. But some interfering
person is sure to mention local self-government


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Who Promised the Land?
Over a large part of Europe, Australia seems to be
regarded nowadays as the Promised Land. Italians,
Greeks, Poles, Yugoslavs, Albanians, Bulgarians,
German and Austrian Jews are coming in as fast as
Canberra will let them; and Canberra’s Mr. Thomp-
son seems willing to oblige within reason, as he inter-
prets the expression. Fie explained- recently that
Albanians are daisies at cotton-growing, though the
Statesman’s Year-Book doesn t mention cotton-
growing among the pursuits to which Albanians are
addicted in their native haunts. As for German and
Austrian Jews, 50,000 want to come, and Mr. Thomp-
son thinks that 5000 of the 50,000 might be*admitted.
Most people would say this was overdoing it, but
it isn’t nearly enough for the Sydney “Morning
Herald.” That newspaper has learned, op very dubi-
ous authority, that “in five years’ time” the U.S.A.
“will have received well over 100,000 refugees from
Germany,” and it declares that “the American example
gives a fine lead to such a country as Australia.”
In welcoming such refugees as migrants, Australia
would not only fulfil the inescapable obligations of a
great humanitarian work, but would also benefit directly
through the acquisition of new people and fresh blood.
Experienced officers could well be stationed in Vienna
and Berlin to give information and exercise a choice of
selection from first-hand knowledge of prospective
migrants.
The officers would need to lie very experienced.
“Granny 1 ’ has been publishing what it calls
“advertisements of Viennese technical and professional
workers” in its “Positions Wanted” column (oddly
enough, no other Australian newspaper has done so),
and it asserts that they “suggest very instructively
indeed the high type of attainments and skills [plural]
from which this country could profit.” Unfortunately
the advertisers nearly all want city jobs, the gentlemen
being engineers, architects, tailors, shoemakers,
teachers of languages, dental mechanics, printers,
watchmakers, photographers, hairdressers and the like
(one has had “wide experience debt-collecting”); and
a large proportion are ladies.
Three young Viennese ladies, Jewish, 18-20, seek
positions as governess or help in household.
Two Viennese tailoresses, trained in art and handi-
crafts, seek positions.
Two capable Viennese girls are looking for positions
in household, and as milliner, ladies’ hairdresser or
as beauty parlor assistant.
Young Viennese lady requires position housekeeper
or companion with first-class family (no babies). Perfect
in modern beauty culture or chiropody.
Young Viennese lady, hairdresser (cosmetics, mani-
cure, massage, pedicure), perfect English, seeks engage-
ment; also experience cosmetic products.
Especially qualified Viennese modiste offers her
services.
Viennese girl from best Jewish family, English,
French, Italian, special knowledge motor supplies, car-
driving, also cook and household duties, seeks position.
Viennese lady, first-class pianist, perfect French,
requires position as governess, only in good-class family,
with grown-up children.
Two .young good-looking Viennese ladies, the one
first-class dressmaker, certificated, the other an expert
in producing belts and gloves, both efficient in house-
hold, seek positions.
Austrian lady, single, 28 years, handsome, perfect
tailor and cutter, English, French and Austrian fashions,
with newest models, seeks position.
Viennese Jewess (orphan), 35 years, tall, good appear-
ance, experienced in household, cooking, sewing, mil-
linery, kindergarten teacher, cosmetics, wants position
with good family. Salary secondary consideration.
All these distressed damsels want to come to
Sydney, where in all the residential suburbs their sex
is in the majority. Immigration of that sort, admitted
on the scale which the Sydney “Morning Herald”
recommends, would introduce industrial complications,
and might introduce others. Even an orphan, aged
35, “tall, good appearance,” could not be guaranteed
a wholly motherly or sisterly reception.
Suppose a member of the Commercial Travellers’
Club engaged her as a pleasant surprise for mother
and the girls and took her home on Saturday night,
with the suggestion that she should be accommodated
in the second-best bedroom?
End of the Section.
The lesson of the fifth Test match is that international
cricket, as hitherto played and wrangled and blithered
about, is on its last legs. Its doom was sealed when
the laws of cricket were altered to block a method
of preventing the bat from beating the ball. Useless
now to argue whether the method was fair or unfair ;
whether Larwood bowled at the man, or whether he
bowled at the wicket and hit only flat-footed fellows,
too clumsy to get out of the way. Sufficient that
bodyline or leg-theory was abolished and the
supremacy of the bat over the ball accepted.
Bradman, who was the first to assert this
supremacy, has now been joined by Hutton. That
stolid Yorkshireman batted in the Endurance Test-
match for 13 hours 17 minutes and made not 800 runs
or so, but 364. Comparative novice as he is, 22 years
of age, he is obviously capable of doing it again and
again. But who wants to see him do it again? Who
wants to see even Bradman stay in till he beats the
dreary “record” or (as he does often) throws his wicket
away?
The fact is that these young men have reached
the point which Walter Lindrum long ago reached
in billiards, and, in common fairness or humanity,
should be handicapped as Lindrum has been. With
the obvious decline of fast bowling, because youths who
have the aptitude lack the inclination —they know too
well that it has become too strenuous for them to last
long at it on contemporary wickets—other ball-beaters
are sure to arise.
For village cricket and its Australian counterpart
there is a future: with a time limit which would wipe
out stonewalling batsmen and bowlers who “keep
down the runs, it would be far more interesting and
enjoyable than Sheffield-Shield and county matches,
which, as a rule, are the last word in dullness. For
“timeless-Test” cricket there is no future ; and in an
increasingly competitive age, when people have far
more important things to think about, it doesn’t
deserve to have one.
"A Major Blunder."
It now seems that scarcely anybody except Mr. Hughes
has a good word for Salamaua as a site for the New'
Guinea capital.
Fairbairn, M.P., who flew from New Guinea
a few days ago, describes the choice as “a major
blunder.” Expansion at Salamaua, he declares, could
be achieved only by filling in a malarial swamp
at an estimated cost of £lB,OOO for each foot raised.
Even local people were surprised at the decision for
Salamaua, and the member for Flinders found “all
authorities” in doubt as to whether the road to Wau
could be constructed for anything like the Minister’s
estimate.
All are certain that its maintenance would cost
about £lOO,OOO a year, owing to washaways caused by
the 200 in. rainfall.
The “Pacific Islands Monthly” reports that in
July the Director of Public Works and officials of the
Lands Department went to Salamaua to lay out the
new capital,
What they found gave them a headache. When
the parly returned to Rabaul it radiated depression,
since it had found a swamp which defied the optimistic
calculations of the Hughes-McNicoll Plan.
It is reported from Canberra that the Ministry
has reviewed its hurried decision to scrap the Griffiths
report —it was in favor of Lae —on the say-so of
Mr. Hughes and is rectifying the “major blunder.”
That Home-consumption Price.
The price of wheat is down again, and the Govern-
ments of the wheatgrowing States, backed by farmers’
organisations, are urging the Government at Canberra
to join with them in fixing a home-consumption price,
“for 1938-39 and following seasons,” of 4s. Bd. a
bushel at country sidings.
It means another flour tax, and the Government
at Canberra is not enthusiastic. The Government at
Canberra is already considering income-tax and sales-
tax increases to meet some of the new defence bills ;.
then it knows from experience that a flour tax presses
most heavily on those least able to bear it. The
bachelor who won’t marry and the couple that won’t
have children it scarcely touches; but the family man
gets it in the neck. Already is discontent among
the workers at the cost of living. This discontent
has had something to do with the ugly strike in the
aeroplane factory and with the threats of still uglier
strikes in armaments and munition factories, naval
depots and coalmines.
It is argued that bread wouldn’t be any dearer
if a flour tax or some glozing substitute raised the
price of flour from £B-odd per ton to £ 13-odd. Those
who talk like that are singularly ill acquainted with
the ways of master bakers’ associations.
A Government guarantee of so much a bushel,
any loss to be chargeable against future years,
would be fairer than a home-consumption price,
fairer not only to family men with small purses but
to growers in States like Westralia and S.A. This is
the Canadian way. There is time enough before the
new season’s wheat begins coming in to learn exactly
what the Canadian Government is doing and, if pos-
sible, to decide upon a common policy. Canada and
Australia are alike interested in trying to preserve
the measure of British preference their wheat receives.
Both are threatened by the evident intention of the
Washington Government to sell huge quantities of
subsidised wheat wherever it can get any sort of a
price.
"Same Old Story—Nothing New."
If the new British Army is as tough and resilient as
the New Journalism, there is little room for fear that
we might go under in a European war.
Even when stripped to its undershirt, so to speak,
the New Journalism is never at a loss for a missile to
throw. When the German manoeuvres unaccount-
ably failed to develop into a brutal attack on the
innocent Czechs, it was still not short of ammunition.
“S. M. Herald” suddenly woke to the significance
of the Hungarian Regent’s visit to Nazi Germany.
Nazi Germany showed him the biggest military
parade seen in Germany since the war, 61,000 troops
taking part, with 308 guns. There have been bigger
ones at Nuremberg, but the “S.M.H.” correspondent
stresses the size of the guns rather than that of the
parade:—
They evidently surprised foreign military attaches.
The biggest were lOin. guns, with crews of 30, and 6in.
guns, with 25ft. barrels and crews of 16. There were
also 16in. motorised howitzers.
The howitzers must have been just as hard on the
pavements as on the eye. But the astonishment of
attaches at the rest of the outfit suggests that they
must have been drawn from the cable staffs. The
standard length of a six-inch naval gun is 25 feet, and
the six-inch field gun is only a couple of feet or so
shorter. Nor are the crews anything out of the way.
Fifteen-inch mobile field weapons are part of the
standard programme of big British gunmakers, and
even 20 years ago there was nothing astonishing in
a 16-incher.
However, the whooping-up of German artillery
equipment looked well beside a choice assortment of
news aboui how tension over the European situation
has produced “perceptible results in Whitehall, where
unenlightening and monosyllabic replies are given to
vital questions.” It says a great deal for the forbear-
ance of Whitehall that its replies are confined to
monosyllables. There must at times be a strong
temptation to use more lethal answers to the New
Journalism, which deals in “rumors and speculations’'
as to whether Ministers have or have not arrived at
a desperate decision to tell Germany that an attack
on Czechoslovakia would result “in Britain uniting
with France.”
That kind of news is almost as convincing as the
discovery that “observers are closely watching the
position which has arisen through Russia’s establish-
ment of what is regarded as a Maginot Line along
the Polish border, and the strengthening of the Red
Army in Europe.”
A Riga correspondent says sagely that the mean-
ing of Russia’s reorganisation is not yet clear. It is
about time it was. Five years ago Mr. Voroshilov
announced that he was beginning to build the Polish
frontier line, and three years ago he declared that
Russia could meet brutal assassins of peace “with the
mightiest army, at the sight of which the forces of
the Imperialistic murderers will cringe if they dare
its wrath.” Mr. Voroshilov added genially: “We will
smash their fingernails if they dare to put their dirty
paws inside our frontier.”^
Prison Preferred.
“0.P.R.”: A Melbourne barrister astonished a Vic-
torian Supreme Court Judge by asking him to send
a young fellow to gaol and “save him from the refor-
matory.” “Do you think he would be in greater
danger in a reformatory than in Pentridge?” his Honor
asked; and counsel said that such was his opinion.
He explained that, consigned to a reformatory, the
youth would have opportunities of talking about crime
and criminals which he would not get in prison.
There is on record a case in which three young
Victorians came up for sentence. Two had prior
convictions; they were sent to gaol for three months.
The third, a first offender, was told that he didn’t
look a criminal type, and would be given a chance
to break away from evil associates. He was sent to
a reformatory.
The imprisoned pair were released in 11 weeks.
It was 18 months before the third boy left the refor-
matory, and then only on parole for two years and
a half. Nothing further was heard in courts of the
two who had served gaol terms, but the “reformed”
one has been in and out of gaol ever since.
An Indeterminate Sentences Board administers
the reformatory system in Victoria. Its powers are
great, and they should be reviewed.
"Progress" Since 1911.
“Tredor”: The European population of the N.T. at
June 30, 1938, presents an interesting study. Only
11 settlements have a white population over the 100
mark, and over half the white population of the
Territory is contained in Darwin (1911), Tennant
Creek (523) and Alice Springs (551). Mining sup-
ports the bulk of Tennant’s population. An analysis
of Darwin’s reveals 820 Government employees and
dependants, 650 “engaged in commercial pursuits,”
301 casual laborers and 140 unemployed and visitors.
Asiatics in Darwin number 658, half-castes 215 ;
in the N.T., 878 and 962 respectively. For 1936-37
birthrates per 1000 in the N.T. were whites 17, half-
castes 26.5, Chinese 20; natural increase was 8.5,
23.5 and minus 2 respectively. Natural increase of
whites would, however, be somewhat modified by
the fact that the main ambition of most white persons
in the N.T. is to get out of it as soon as possible.
Altogether the figures indicate the necessity for
assisting mining in the N.T., subdividing large
holdings, as suggested by the Payne report, and, above
all, encouraging persons to migrate to —and to stay
in—the N.T. by offering them amenities available in
the States.
Help and Self-protection.
An interesting and extremely valuable departure in
preventive medicine on the larger scale is the world-
gift of 6,000,000 doses of anti-cholera vaccine to
China. Australia is contributing 500,000 from its
Commonwealth Serum Laboratories at a cost of
£4OOO. No money was ever spent to better purpose
in protecting Australia against involvement in the
tremendous cholera outbreak which war and. famine
have helped to develop in dangerous proximity to
points of regular communication with our shores.
Such gifts have been made before in times of
national disaster —to Japan, for example, after the
1923 earthquake—but not as deliberate measures of
protection to other countries, apart from sympathy
for sufferers.
One of the long-dead hopes was that the League
of Nations would establish international emergency
Squads of highly-skilled epidemiologists, fully equipped
to deal at its source with any epidemic which seemed
likely to spread widely among other countries.
No Sign of a War.
From a member of a well-known firm of solicitors:
I should like to compliment The Bulletin on its sensible
attitude to war scares and on its “Uncabled Additions.”
I returned to N.S.W. by flying boat after a motor tour of
the Continent. Questioned by reporters, I informed them
that only a few weeks ago I crossed different points of the
Czechoslovakian-German frontier and saw neither troops nor
a sign of warlike preparations within 50 miles of the frontier.
Nor were our bags even looked at by German or Czech
Customs officers. I mentioned all this, and mentioned also
the friendly attitude of Germany and all other countries to
touring British. My remarks were not printed.
I can assure you that the only scares which reach big
black headlines are to be found in our amazing Australian
papers and a few little-read overseas journals on which they
seem to draw for their news. Your attitude has the support
of .most members of the thinking portion of the community.
It is gratifying to know that in Australia we have one of the
best and most trustworthy papers in the world.


SOCIETY
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“T.”: The jazz-joint preferences of
newspaper proprietors are animatedly
discussed by Sydney reporters, sometimes
in their bearing on the latest stunt. One
young gentleman conferred his patronage
on a night club so swish that common
people were not supposed to be ad-
mitted, though common people will be
allowed to take part in League wars. The
amount of space that night club got in
the social columns of the young gentle-
man’s journal was astonishing, and the
“He's been mixin' up them Kosciusko an' lumberjack films.”
young gentleman himself was photo-
graphed there lifting a scrap of chicken
to his mouth—the thing was published
by another young Pulitzer who prefers
a rival joint. A cruel climax arrived last
week: the manager of the swish night
club was fined £3O, and a waiter £lOO,
for Sly Grog Selling at fancy prices to
—of all persons—a copper and his lady
friend. To make matters worse, the man-
ager is an Austrian, and the young
gentleman’s paper has been conducting
a campaign for the wholesale admission
of Austrians, though they can’t all be
employed in the night club.
* * *
Mac Hoots : For a long tune I have
suspected that there was something radi-
cally wrong with the man who lives on
top of my head in my bijou King s Cross
flat (no h. and c., no mod. con.). Not
that 1 rr ! in , d . ed h ! m l ea PJng across the
ceiling, shifting the furniture, groaning
or saying “Ha!” ; I thought it was just
a series of those orgies I had read about
or perhaps he was a mad poet of a police-
man practising walking his beat. But the
other night he had a party, and every-
body got a-goose-stepping above my
cranium till I became really furious,
threw three boots at them and then went
up to witness the revel. It was a dart
party. And for three months that man
has been driving me so much madder
than usual that even my best friend has
noticed it, practising darts on his own.
Brother, if this paragraph should meet
your bleary eye, would you honorably
commit hara-kiri on one of your own
disgusting weapons?
* * * *
“S.”: Ever since I was seven and old
enough to smoke I have been collecting
in cigarette packets “Fauna of Tibet,”
“Your Favorite Film Star,” “Pullets of
All Nations,” cricketers, footballers, nit-
wits and silver paper for the hospitals, so
that it is with some pleasure that I record
having at last found something vaguely
useful. When the stout ship Tasman was
recently in Sydney passengers were buy-
ing (at sevenpence for 30) Javanese
gawspers, and in between each layer of
15 reclined neither Garbo nor Bradman
but a bridge-scorer. I suggest to Mr.
Tibbett, Fay Compton and the other
notabilities who consider it’s “smart to
smoke” this or that weed that they recom-
mend their friends to give us some-
thing similar —a golf card or a paper to
play noughts and crosses on. Or even
a crossword puzzle.
* * * *
“El V.”: Strange how circumstances
change the importance ,of minor happen-
ings! Captain Kendrick, a British
official of long standing in Vienna, was
arrested at Freilassing, a quiet Austro-
German border station popular as a
crossing point for motorists —I’ve crossed
there many a time myself. In the good old
days of a dozen years ago when the Nazis
were merely a queer street-corner clique
and French bayonets and bugles were
everywhere in the Rhineland, the gate used
to be guarded by a couple of large persons
in the kind of frock-coat uniforms that
London commissaires wore in “Punch.”
Nevertheless, though they were amusing
and jovial cusses—not averse to a swig
out of a British flask, if all was quiet
on the Austrian front—it was quite easy
to get pinched in Austria. A Consular
official (much higher on the scale than
Kendrick) and I were turned in from a
Vienna railway station because of a
jovial remark that the fare was a
“schwindel,” a remark, we learned, which
constituted libel on the State. Of course,
espionage and various other matters,
which no Continental south of the Bel-
gian border ever fails to drag in with a
foreigner, were lightly touched on during
our subsequent negotiations. They
always are . but j do not recall that a
sing]e word app eared in any paper about
the incident. The same would have been
true of the Kendrick incident if it had
been left to the F.G. and Mr. Kendrick,
* * * *
“Corporal Wanst”: May I butt into
that spurs-in-fortress-areas argument (B.
17/8/’38)? When that I was a little lad,
as Mr. Shakspeare sings, I was told that
this regulation was enforced because of
the danger of a spark from steel spurs
blowing up the magazines. Having been
for many years exposed to the mind
military I am convinced that nothing is
too asinine for it to evolve. The in-
specting brasshats who arrived spurred
to the eyebrows were probably wearing
brass spurs, as officers of a certain rank,
and especially guardees, are entitled to
do, and would thus be immune from the
ban.
“Vieux Marcheur”: The lady who
made rough-house with her shoe (B.
17/8/’3B) was no original. It was and
is the favorite weapon at close quarters
of what newspapers used to call “a
certain class of female,” and grasped
by the toe and wielded expertly the high
heel makes an ugly weapon. In the
dear dead days I have seen a lady in
a London restaurant take off her shoe
and hurl it across a wide room with an
accuracy which gave the lie to the legend
that women can’t aim straight. The
rival did not retaliate, her two escorts
holding her down while an obsequious
waiter returned the shoe to the thrower,
who then swept out in triumph escorted
by her friends.
* * * *
“Pittosporum”: Tell “Galen” (B.
17/8/’3B), who says Harley-street sur-
geons object to being addressed as doctor,
that many surgeons here have the same
antipathy. Charles Ryan in the days
before he was knighted used to say to
medical students in the Melbourne Hos-
pital : “Call me Ryan ; call me Charlie ;
call me Colonel” —and then with
emphasis—“but don’t call me doctor.”
“Pills”: “Galen” missed a couple of
other walks to which the term “doctor”
or the abbreviation “doc.” is applied.
One is a sick-berth steward in the Navy ;
the other is an inspector at meatworks.
* * * *
“Sa Tiko”: Is there any specific for
seasickness? Have known people to diet
and drug before a trip and to spend the
rest of the voyage recovering from the
treatment. Others can eat boiled pork
and sauerkraut an hour before sailing
and then manage to subsist on seven
meals a day, with liquid nourishment in
between. It is not so much a matter of
stomach condition. As my friend the
saloon deckman says, “It is all them
spirit-levels in the ears. If you keep
them on the balance you’ll be up an’
doing. If they get out of plumb, you’re
a goner!” My remedy is to stand as far
forward in the prow of the ship as pos-
sible and vitalise the lungs with ozone
before the vessel reaches the active sea
and begins to rise and fall. It is this up-
and-down motion which makes you long
for the hard pavement. Rolling is not
so bad. But if you can get in half an
hour’s deep-breathing and chest-swelling,
you’ve got a good chance. If at any time
later you are having a tussle with your
sensations repeat the deep-breathing exer-
cises, face to the wind, until your lungs
are cold. Avoid strong tea. One cup
will put you under for a bad passage.
* * * . *
“Windjam”: Because they sail so
often well outside the steamer lanes,
sailing ships nowadays provide most of
the mysteries .of the sea. Latest of these
is the fate of the German barque Admiral
Karpfanger. Seven months ago she
sailed from Spencer Gulf (S.A.) for
Europe via Cape Horn with a cargo of
wheat. She carried a crew of 60, mostly
cadets of from 15 to 18, and was last
reported on March 1, due south of
Dunedin (M.L.), on the latitude of the
Auckland Islands, and further south than
the usual shipping routes. Since then
all is silence. Search ships have been
over the route, but no trace has been
discovered of the missing barque. A
similar case was that of the Danish ship
Kobenhavn, also a training craft, which
disappeared nine years ago while on a
voyage from Buenos Ayres to Melbourne.
A ship answering to her description was
sighted “drifting with all sails set” near
Tristan da Cunha, in the middle of the
South Atlantic. This ship soon drifted
out of sight of the observer. What may
have been a link with that tragedy was
the discovery later of a half-buried life-
boat containing seven skeletons in tat-
teied seafaring attire on a West African
beach.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: History does repeat
itself, even the Australian kind. The
N.S.W. Pharmacy Board has got on the
warpath against quackery, denouncing it
as “a dangerous racket menacing the
health of the people” and demanding
Government action for cleaning it up in
the public interest. On January 16, 1838,
the “Sydney Gazette” thundered to
the tune of “The amount of quackery
... .in this... .city is greater than in any
place of the same magnitude... .Perhaps
some of these worthies are not aware of
the penalties attached to individuals
practising without a license tamper-
ing with diseases they do not understand,
they are liable to be brought to the law
and tried for the capital offence If
the law were to exercise its influence in
one or two cases, it might deter others
from continuing their imposition.” So
it might to-day, even if it’s a different
law with more strings to it.
* * * *
“Runa”: A motorist in Christchurch
(M.L.) got a shock when a man darted
from the footpath and deliberately cast
himself in front of the car. By braking
and swerving and nearly overturning,
the motorist managed to avoid him by
inches ; looking back he saw the would-
be suicide picking himself up and look-
ing expectantly for the next car to come
along. Here hastily-summoned police
took a hand and removed the man, who
a few days later faced the Bench to
explain his goings-on. Jealousy, domes-
tic upheaval and a determination to end
it all had induced the attempts to get
himself run over. An understanding
magistrate adjourned the case while the
man and his wife had a chat, after which
a formal conviction and discharge were
recorded.
* * $ *
“II Vecchio”: The results of the N. S.
Wales motor-speed limit seem, to have
worked out curiously. Accidents through
excessive speed declined in the first six
months of the year from 304 in 1937
to 237 this year. Intoxication mishaps
fell from 106 to 47. But the numbers
due to not giving way grew from 113
to 147, and careless-driving accidents
swelled from 92 to 157. On the whole,
there isn’t much improvement. Inciden-
tally, there are now 1,200,000 motor-car
or motor-bike drivers in the Common-
wealth.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Threatened arrival of a
new Russian ballet in Melbourne re-
minds me. When Pavlova was due to
arrive paragraphs appeared in the papers
telling of a strange superstition that
she could not dance with her accus-
tomed lightness of foot unless she was
carried over the doorstep of each new
theatre in which she was billed to appear.
Job of transporting the lady over the
sinister obstacle was delegated to a show-
man, and a good deal of agreeable pub-
licity was accorded the ceremony. One
pressman solemnly wrote an article on
Russian superstition and linked the busi-
ness up with the ancient black arts of
Muscovy. It transpired that the notion
was minted in the brain of the com-
pany’s local publicity man, and that the
first thing that Pav. knew about her
quaint belief was when she was told
about it on Port Melbourne wharf.
“Push”: Australia’s pioneer “Wheel-
barrow Marathon” practitioner was
“Russian Jack.” Trundling his few pos-
sessions from Hall Creek to Wyndham,
he came across a fever-stricken man. Un-
loading his barrow, he placed the sick
man on it, and over mountainous coun-
try wheeled his patient into Wyndham,
a distance of 140 miles. Just another
good Samaritan, so the newspapers of
his day didn’t make much fuss of him.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Associations are funny
things. When I read that Will Mahoney,
the British film comedian at present
shaking sides at Melb. Tivoli, had been
out shooting assisted by an electric torch
of his own invention (it throws a
beam of light a hundred yards and
focuses so well that you just have to
shoot through the telescopic sight c and
the job’s done), I felt a pleasurable
emotion. But I wonder what Mahoney’s
fellow-countrymen would think of him —
“shootin’ foxes!”
LEICHHARDT.
In paths untrodden, by tracks unridden,
He has lain while ninety years have fled.
Will the bush unravel the secret hidden
So long, the desert give up her dead?
Will the veil that hides him at last be rended
After so many a fruitless quest
For a key to the door where his journey ended,
A clue to the spot where his bones found
rest?
There are epitaphs that no time effaces,
No chisels cut and no masons dress,
For the pioneers of the empty spaces,
The men who fought with the wilderness;
For the heroes, whether or not we know them,
Who strove and struggled, and stayed to die,
No bier but the barren earth below them,
Above them only the scorching sky.
Never as yet have the years rewarded
Search for the lost whom Leichhardt led.
Will the bush uncover the secret hoarded
At last, the desert give up her dead?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Nakh”: A tramp which arrived at
Melbourne from East Africa under the
Yugoslavian flag was recognised as the
“hoodoo” ship Pennyworth, alias Gogo-
vale, one time on British register. Now
the Orao, she was put together on the
Clyde during the Great War, was twice
torpedoed on her maiden run, once
found the bottom in the North Sea and
was refloated, only to strike an island
in the St. Lawrence and to have her
sides crushed by Canadian ice. Her
latest officers and crew were blissfully
ignorant of the vessel’s sinister fame
until reminiscing sailormen let them in
on it. Being Yugoslavs and knowing no
more English than is necessary to order
beer, they thought they were in posses-
sion of a lucky ship. Since she began
sporting Yugoslavian colors she has been
courted by fair winds, calm seas and
profitable merchandise. At Melbourne
the luck changed: a dozen of the crew
deserted, and the Orao put out for Syd-
ney with a costly argument with the
immigration authorities in prospect.
# * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Anyone who imagines
that a fireman’s job is merely one of
dashing out on glittering engines, doing
semi-aquatic heroics for a brief space
and putting in time with parlor games
until the next blaze is a long way off
the mark for Brisbane’s squad, at
“Sorry I'm late, Sarge!"
t Carpentering and engineer-
. , .*T,
mg shops build the bodies ql tn
engines and service and repair the
complicated machinery. Extension lad-
ders, canvas “bounce blankets” for catch-
those whom rapidly-increasing heat
encourages to make unparachu ea
descents from top-storey windows, un -
forms, gas helmets and much other equp-
m®nt are a J| mac * e ° n the premises. Th~
sobc * knee-boots which arouse he a n -
ratl ° n of small boys are another
product repairs as well. The latest.effort
* s a bl S drrllyard, with concrete watt and
f ller V- And every worker is liable To
be called on at any moment to drop h s
fools and take his allotted place in fight-
in § a blaze - * * *
“ Blinky Bi n” : The departed Luckner
seems to have had some strange experi-
ences in Austr alia when he was here
about 35 a ln his Foc y/ e Tales
be wr j tes .
The treadmill was the most important
furniture in Australian gaols. It was a huge
wheel with steps. Sailors who had deserted
f^ s y on it™!
use d to stand for hours watching and
saying “hello” to the boys on it.
There hasn’t been a treadmill in opera-
tion in Australia since the ’eighties, and
when there were such things they didn’t
function in public,
* * * *
“F.M.”: On the final day of the Aus-
tralian open golf championship at
Seaton (S.A.) there was a crowd
round the clubhouse watching scores
being posted. Clubhouse and lawns were
fenced off and a notice, “Members
Only,” complete with steward, was posted
at the gateway. The public gazed over
the fence at the “best people” lounging in
the precincts of the clubhouse. A seedy-
looking individual, perhaps attracted
by the tinkle of glasses, tried to push
through the gateway. The steward asked
in a sarcastic tone whether he was a
member. The stranger, quite unabashed,
dived a grubby hand into his pocket.
“No, mate,” he said ; “ ’ow much is it
ter join?”
**' * *
“Sixenate”: A knowledge of psy-
chology is an asset to a lawyer. A Gent.
One particularly successful in the lower
courts is notorious for his clashes with
magistrates. He told me in triumph after
one that it was a clash that had won for
him a particularly ticklish case. “Beak,
5.M.,” he explained, “is a particularly
conscientious magistrate. Having had
that barney with me he would be very
careful to prevent it giving him an unfair
bias against my man' —so careful that,
without knowing it, he developed a bias
in his favor.” Following a sequence of
cases I found five in which there were
sharp exchanges between the Bench and
legal representatives—in one of them the
lawyer cheekily suggested that he might
be permitted to withdraw from the case
so as not to prejudice his client. In four
of those cases the offending attorney
succeeded.
“Full speed, Prendergast; stand by to ram! ”
“C.H.”: 1 was within
earshot when a sheet-iron
worker and his offsider
were filling up their time-
card for a day’s work in
a North Queensland
sugar m i 11 fitting-shop.
They had been patching a
launder carrying away
molasses from a drying-
station. “ ’Owja spell
‘launder,’ Joe?” asked
one. “Damned if I know
—l’m gonna shove down
‘chute.’ ” “Righto ; ’owja
spell ‘chute’?” “Well, it’s
not the shoot y’ do with
the gun, so we’re in a
tangle again. I’ll tell yer
wot, stick down trough.”
“O.K. ’Owja spell
‘trough’?” “‘T-r-o-f,’”
said Joe. And t-r-o-f it
was.
* * *
“Red Wax”: One of the
little-known internal ser-
vices of the P.M.G.’s de-
partment is “The List,”
where insufficiently-ad-
dressed letters are dealt
with. In one G.P.O. alone
these letters number about
1000 per day, and a staff is employed
to clear them into their proper channels.
Telephone books and directories are
searched, and in this way many of the
addressees are located, and postmen
trace some of the others. But Romeo
and Juliet would be desolated to see the
loads that have to be carted to “the
morgue”—more gracefully termed the
D.L.O.
* * * *
“Baw Bee”: In Glasgow, where some
of the folk have consciences, the trams
are fitted with a slotted box at the exit.
If the conductor misses you, you can
slip your tuppence into the box. It
saves the corporation some hundreds a
year, and the idea’s worth a trial in
Australia.
* * ❖ *
“Lord Luvus”: During his Melbourne
Centenary visit the Duke of Gloucester
was trotted off to Portland, which has
better claims than Melbourne to being
Victoria’s foundation city, and after
being rowed ashore in the royal barge
had a number of illuminated addresses
composed by leading citizens fired into
him at point-blank range. That is his-
tory. A local yarn is that a fisherman
the other day opened up a shark and
found in its inside the whole collection.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: One of the unre-
hearsed features of Brisbane’s Royal
Show week was a court parade of 37
drunks, ages ranging from 22 to a stal-
wart and experienced 84. Of the four
ladies present, one admitted 320 previous
thirst-convictions. She was considered,
so to speak, home and dry for the cham-
pionship until the court sergeant men-
tioned that the real, undefeated, two-
handed marathon record for either sex
was held by another Brisbane lady with
a score of 482. Which must be some-
where about an Australian record—and,
incidentally a scathing reproach to any
Government which leaves the of
such an unhappy mental disease unaided
by any deliberate attempt at help from
the resources of modern science or even
modern social control of minor street
nuisances.
* * * *
“Beach Rod”: “Nagheer’s” par. with
reference to the reading habits of young
Australians in S. Queensland (B.
17/8/’3B) sent me to the bookshelves
to check up on the reading of my own
kids during their secondary school course
in N. S. Wales, and I was agreeably sur-
prised. Among the authors studied
appear Stevenson, Kipling, George Eliot,
Lawson, Dickens, Shakspeare and Barrie,
while for general study I found English
Prose from Mandeville to Ruskin, Selec-
tions from the Poets and other works of
like character.
* * * *
“Ex-Cabby”: The “cruising” taxi-
driver had his counterpart in the ’nineties
in the “gagging” cabby. In Sydney a by-
law was made that all unoccupied cabs
must travel at a certain pace through the
streets, but that did not stop the gagging
cabbies. In those days payment was not
by the distance but by the time, and a
quarter of an hour’s cab drive cost one
shilling. The Anglican Primate used to
drive regularly from his episcopal resi-
dence in Macleay-street to the cathedral,
a quarter of an hour’s run, and pay just
the legal fare. As a tipper he was a
total abstainer. So the Macleay-street
cabmen eventually boycotted the Arch-
bishop ; whenever they saw him in the
offing they would remember a pressing
engagement elsewhere. That led to quite
a shindy. Still, those who did tip some-
times tipped well. Some cabbies made a
tenner a week at certain seasons.
THE HUMOROUS VOTER.
“There were numerous ‘freak’ votes, some electors
having marked their ballot papers in such a way
us to show a perverted sense of humor.”
Counsel in Gordon (N.S.W.) election petition.
Capacity for humorous expression
The rocky road of life full often smooths;
Used at the proper time with due discretion
It lightens gloom, it sweetens and it soothes,
But one would hardly count it a possession
Of any value in election booths,
Where there should be such solemn seriousness
As that enveloping a game of chess.
True, dulce est desipere in loco,
But not where mighty issues crowd the air;
Crisp items that would cut the ice in “Smoke-
oh! ”
Would be incongruous intruders there.
Jocosity’s bizarre and wit rococo
(Bear this in mind, my son) when forth you
fare
To make a choice of who will represent
Your views most capably in Parliament.
Keep sharp impromptus and facetious com-
ments,
Sarcastic repartee and snappy quips
For bars where smiling Hebes serve the foments
Known to the trade as nobblers, tots and
nips;
They’re admirable aids to leisured moments,
Preciotis concomitants of pleasure trips,
But in a ballot-box they fit as well
As oaths might do in heav’n—or hymns in hell.
You may resent, as I do, the coercion
That orders you a preference to state
When you are conscious of extreme aversion
To either or to any candidate;
Still there are ways, involving no exertion,
Your hard-won suffrage to invalidate
Without endeavoring to make a hit
With shafts of fantasy or sparks of wit.
Fill up in sober mood your voting paper
Or, if you needs must spoil it, send it in
.With the addition of no heated vapor
That in your fertile brain finds origin.
It’s doubtful if your pencil’s spryest caper
In those who scan it will induce a grin.
No ordinary jeu d’esprit would stir
The breast of a returning officer.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


CRAVEN A
..ate so
&
ElB6B
10 for 9°
20 for 1/6
j
MADE SPECIALLY TO PRE VENT SC
POLITICAL POINTS
Stevens has proposed, and the other
unnecessary Premiers have accepted,
what is described as “an equalisation
scheme designed to equate the local mar-
ket price of flour to a level based on a
stable home consumption price for
wheat.” Bill the lumper will reduce this
rigmarole to two words—“dearer bread.”
Premier Forgan Smith in the Brisbane
“Courier-Mail”:
The birth of the Queensland Labor Gov-
ernment in 1932 heralded the dawn of a
new era for Queensland and presaged a hew
era for Australia.
There’s naethin’ like haein’ a gude con-
ceit o’ onesel’.
Sydney “Sun’s” Sunday issue acknow-
ledges that “businessmen are growing
rather cynical about the week-end war-
scare cables” American businessmen.
Australian businessmen are expected to
believe every word of the “Sun’s” Peril-
over-Europe mush.
To the Sydney “D.T.,” of all papers,
two German Jews, man and wife, con-
fided that “reports of Jew-baiting and
atrocities committed against Jews in Ger-
many are entirely false.” They are going
back—to Mannheim. Another German
Jew, an immigrant, said to a “Sun” re-
porter, “I still love the Fatherland.”
Others, again, declare that the persecu-
tion stories are all true. You pay your
three-halfpence and believe what you
please.
From Sydney’s “Sunday Sun,” which
discovered the Black Box in which Mus-
solini secreted his plot to destroy the
Royal Navy:
In Australian public finance, as between
Commonwealth and States, the last word
should belong to the States.
Then the States would borrow the last
shilling if they could get it. When they
had the last word they borrowed
£325,000,000 in nine years, and their
merry competition forced interest up
above 6 p.c.
In Sydney to “deliberate” about the
price of wheat (all their “deliberations”
could have been conducted at the tele-
phone), Premiers and Ministers of Agri-
culture from other States agreed at a
Stevens Government luncheon that Syd-
ney was a pleasant place to “deliberate”
in. And so it is, particularly in early
spring, especially when you get salary
and expenses for “deliberating,” and can
bring secretaries on the same basis. If
they felt their powers flag after their
“deliberations” the numerous visitors
had perfect weather to recuperate in.
A rank example of the insolence of
“l’CEuvre,” the paper that employs
Madame Two-Blues:
It is for Britain, America and France to
say with one voice: “We will uphold the
independence of Czechoslovakia, and
thereby that of Europe.”
America will never say it. Britain has
said once more, through the mouth of
its Foreign Minister, that it will never
let the ruling gang of Czechs willy-nilly
drag it into war.
Norman Angell’s thinking has de-
teriorated. The evidence appears in a
sentence in his latest book:
Because the inviolability of French soil
is necessary to our security, we stand by
France, however obstinate or provocative
her policy.
In other words “we” humbly accept
French politicians as the masters of our
Late French politicians, who have
divided their own country and wrecked
its influence in Europe. If Old England
had accepted that as a principle of
foreign policy and applied it to any set
of politicians, French, Dutch, Flemish
or Spanish, there would have been no
British Empire.
Barcelona reports that a captain who
performed prodigies of valor has been
discovered to be “a beautiful girl who
disguised herself to fight against the
rebels.” Photographs of the adorable
creature in swim suits, gym. suits and
play suits are expected to appear in the
flapper press at any moment. Mean-
while “the rebels have suffered incal-
culable losses on the Ebro and Estre-
madura fronts.” Incalculable, and this
when Spain is swarming with Red novel-
ists and Pink correspondents! Has the
multiplication table been abolished as
borjoice?
A. E. Monk, who, as well as being
president of the A.C.T.U., is vice-president
of the Victorian Labor organisation, con-
“The editor says ’urry up with that furrun news from an unhimpeachable
author’ty or you’ll get it w’ere the turkey got the axe.”
fesses in the “Labor Daily” that he
doesn’t think there is “a chance of get-
ting another Victorian Labor Govern-
ment for a few years.”
Labor support for the Country party has
brought gains to the workers, although in
some respects it has probably made it more
difficult to gain sufficient seats to form a
Labor Government.
Monk doesn’t give reasons, but they
are obvious enough. Courage is the
quality which makes the greatest appeal
to the Australian workers. Victorians
can only feel disgusted at the spectacle
of a party which elected three Senators
with upwards of a million votes humbly
supporting a party which couldn’t muster
70,000.
Earle Page is back in Australia with
the report that an influx of Dutch
market gardeners may be expected at
any moment, and that the Common-
wealth can get unemployed from the
U.S.A. Lewis, the C. 1.0. man, estimates
that there are only 12,000,000 unem-
ployed in the U.S.A.
Like Canberra, Wellington (M.L.) im-
ported an English actuary to tell it what
“social security” would cost, and his esti-
mate was £17,850,000 the first year. To
that Nash, the Minister of Finance,
added £550,000 for frills ; then he sub-
tracted £1,790,000 for war pensions and
such (though the £1,790,000 will still have
to be paid), and another operation of the
kind shaved the estimate down to
£15,000,000. Unemployed-relief, like war
pensions, is extra. The Americans found
“social security” a short cut to another
depression, and refused to allow that the
President’s fancy term “recession” made
it smell any sweeter.
Back from Spain, where he spent three
weeks, mostly on the Red front, ex-
Senator Bob Elliott says Franco is sure
to win and could take Madrid and
Barcelona within 48 hours if it could be
done without knocking them about. A
second-hand report of Bob’s impressions
preceded him, but that didn’t come over
the cables?
Soldier-preference, attacked by the
chairman of Sydney’s alleged County
Council, has been accepted by that body
in a resolution studded with words like
“duty;” “responsibility,” “loyalty” and
“debt of gratitude.” In the closing sen-
tence “this Council declares its support
of the spirit and letter of the Returned
Soldiers and Sailors’ Employment Act,
and dissociates itself from any recently-
published remarks” — i.e., the chairman’s
—“indicating any contrary intention.”
To show that he had performed the com-
plete twist, and was ’umble and contrite
and all that, the chairman, Gardiner,
seconded the resolution.
Elated at the result of a small local
ballot, at which a whole 3900 coalminers
decided that they preferred Heffron to
Lang (2000 were for Lang), a gentleman
named Hughes, who is something or
other on the Trades and Labor Council,
explains that it means “the Inner Group
is being swept away,” and that means
“winning Australia again for Labor,” and
that will mean that “the Commonwealth
will line up with New Zealand in forcing
the Chamberlain Government into a
democratic policy of peace instead of its
pro-Fascist policy of encouraging aggres-
sion.” And that would mean a grand
old Moscow war.
A week of almost incessant rain on
the catchment area washed away the
Sydney Water Board’s restrictions and
its threats of more. The Board’s orders
to its serfs the consumers were delivered
in hectoring tones over the air. They
were accompanied by inane suggestions
that showers were better for the human
body than complete immersion in baths,
and that wash-up water was just the
thing for lawns and gardens, also by wild
proposals for the spending of borrowed
money on this, that and the other ex-
pedient. In fact, the Board performed
so foolishly that even Spooner protested.
And Spooner is the Minister who played
the benevolent financier when it seemed
in danger of going bung, and set it on
a new course of borrowing whatever it
could raise in the market — any market.
The Manchester city councillors, a
traditionally hardheaded lot, are scrap-
ping the Manchester tramways for trolley
buses and motor-buses. About the time
this announcement was made, Mr. Bell,
of the Melbourne tramways, who is on a
world tour, with secretary, was heard
from. Mr. Bell has decided that “trolley-
buses will never run in Melbourne,”
and that Melbourne must put up with
electric trams, plus German-invented gas-
driven buses, Mr. Bell having bought
the Australian rights. If the gas-driven
buses don’t suit, the community will pay.
That’s what communities are for.
A Sydney “Herald” reviewer goes into
ecstasies over Unto Ccesar, by F. A.
Voigt, describing it as “a masterpiece of
close reasoning.” It quotes a specimen
of the masterpiece :
Hitler has a special aptitude for the
dirty work of revolution. He is without
tolerance, pity or any generous emotion.
He is without true manhood or dignity. He
is bloody-minded to a horrifying degree. He
has a brutality of language that has no
parallel among modern rulers.
But surely any educated blackguard
could write like that?
A threat of legislative interference with
cash-order companies has drawn from
one concern the information that it has
300,000 “active accounts” on its books,
and that its turnover for a twelvemonth
exceeded £2,000,000. Mention of the
number of summonses issued during the
same twelvemonth would round off the
story nicely. The threat was issued by a
Government which assists the cash-order
industry by running lotteries.
An Italian engineer has invented a
power-transmitter which, according to an
English prof., combines the elements of
the turbine and the centrifugal pump and
makes possible a clutchless and gearless
car. The inventor has undertaken to place
it at the disposal of the transport industry
in every wheatgrowing country. It is
expected that transport departments will
combine with Trades and Labor Councils
to reject the gift, on the ground that
the fellow is a Fascist.
Amazing letter from one Max Loewen-
stein to Sydney “Sun,” contradicting “a
statement which, in the form published,
I never made”:
The interviewer will, no doubt, remem-
ber that I answered his plain question
whether Jews in Germany were forced to
clean streets to the effect that “I myself
had never observed anything of the kind,
and I think it most unfair to speak of
things which 1 had never experienced my-
self.” I added that, personally, I had not
to suffer in the least in Germany.
I most emphatically deny the statement
ascribed to me that “Jews had been treated
badly in Germany.”
The letter appeared without correction
or comment, save a curt “Never Said It.”
From a long way North of Twenty-
eight :
That Public Works Committee which “reduced
the cost of the Canberra hospital from £210,000
to £150,000” is “investigating” the Darwin gaol,
hospital and water-scheme plans; estimates,
round £42,000, £85,000 and £200,000 respec-
tively. The committee consists of Q’land
Senators Brown and Cooper, and Francis,
Price, Collins, Nairn and Frost, Ms.H.R.,
plus a secretary and a “Hansard” reporter.
One is a lawyer and another a laundry-
man ; two are pastoralists: there is not a
doctor or a civil engineer among them. An abo.
compound (cost, £32,790) situated about four
miles out of Darwin is not included in the
scope of the “investigations.” It would take
half a dozen N.T. persons with experience of
Binghi only a few moments to suggest what
should be done with that compound.


THE TRIER.


■ll5O
Ba
Ihelvet lA|
This COUPON
entitles the bearer to receive a
VALUABLE COLLECTION of
the former NOMINAL VALUE
OF ROUBLES 1754—0 f
RUSSIAN STAMPS ENTIRELY
FREE OF CHARGE.
These are offered to new cus-
tomers applicants for our
approval sheets.
Contents: Oldest and Newest Issues, including
the famous Czar, Soviets, Russian Post in
Turkey, Transcaucasian Federation, Ukrania and
Air-Mails. Send your exact address. All ship-
ments will be franked with the FINEST AIR-
MAIL POSTAGE.
ATLAS STAMP, LTD.
Zurich, 173, Fraumuensterpost,' Switzerland
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
HOW SHOULD DEFENCE EXPENDITURE BE
FINANCED?
PROBLEM OF THE WHEATGROWER
OUTLOOK ON STOCK EXCHANGE
MINES AND METALS
September Issue On Sale Next Saturday.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
KIDNEYS
CAUSE OF
MANY BACKACHES
Flush Out 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 miles of tiny tubes or filters which
strain the waste and acids from the blood. A
healthy person should pass 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter.
If your kidneys don't work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous,
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. It may
lay you up for many months.
Don’t wait ! Ask your chemist for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . used success-
fully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney dis-
orders. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes. So be
sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
PERSONAL ITEMS
A notable breeder of Polwarths and
a one-time president of the Australian
Sheepbreeders’ Assoc, was Edwin Currie,
elder brother of knight Alan. Currie, who
died at his station, Gala (western Vic.),
last week at 76, was a son of pioneer
J. L. Currie, of Lara, Camperdown, and
after some business experience com-
menced a career as a pastoralist in
Queensland, later returning south when
he acquired Gala. His interest in cricket
was lifelong. He played for St. Kilda
in senior competitions as a young man
and was first president of the Vic.
Country Cricket League. Up till a few
months before his death he was on the
committee of the Melbourne Cricket
Club.
Dead in Melbourne at only 47, H. W.
Shmith was one of the Commonwealth’s
best-known analytical chemists. When
aspirin supplies from Germany were cut
off during the war, it was Shmith, then
only 24, who discovered the formula and
joined with G. R. Nicholas in founding
the Aspro firm which now has world-
wide ramifications. A versatile person,
Shmith was a bacteriologist to a sol-
diers’ hospital and analyst to the Com-
monwealth Serum Lab. In his leisure
moments he was an accomplished pianist.
After the war he won the gratitude of
the bread-and-pastry industry by his dis-
covery of the malto-pepsin process for
the manufacture of self-raising flour.
- Phineas Selig, erstwhile a big figure in
Maoriland’s newspaper world, but retired
these many years, is a Melburnian by
birth, but his parents migrated to M.L.
when he was very young. He got his
first job as a copy-holder in the Govern-
ment Printing Office in Wellington.
After some miscellaneous newspaper ex-
perience he developed ability as a sport-
ing reporter, and in 1881 founded the
N.Z. “Referee.” Ten years later the
Christchurch “Press” absorbed the
“Referee” into its weekly journal, taking
over Selig as editor, and later still made
him general manager, a job which he held
PHINEAS SELIG.
till his retirement. Selig’s interest in
sport has been lifelong. He founded
the Public Schools Amateur Athletic
Assoc., and was chairman of the N.Z.
Trotting Association for 22 years. He’s
now over the 80 mark and wearing well.
One of the best-known stock auc-
tioneers in Victoria and one of the best
judges of sheep, and cattle was Archibald
Mathieson, head of Mathieson, Davis
and Co., dead at 91. Son of one
of the pioneers of the Western Dis-
trict, he commenced his business
career as auctioneer for Peck, Hud-
son and Rayner. Later he acquired
the business of Guthridge and Co.,
of Sale, in which he had long been
managing auctioneer, taking into part-
nership G. M. Davis, M.L.C., who died
a few weeks ago. In his youth Mathie-
son represented Victoria in cricket:
he was also an excellent shot, and took
an interest in coursing.
The few in Melbourne still faithful to
the real theatre are lamenting the death
of Tom Skewes. He was a standard-
bearer of the Melbourne Repertory
Theatre, formed over 30 years ago, and
which struggled on for 10 years ere it
died of neglect. In recent years he had
a part in most of Gregan McMahon’s
productions. He lived 69 years, and for
50 of these was a school-teacher.
Many farmers in N. S. Wales have
pleasant memories of S. F. Adams,
for many years, registrar of Hawkesbury
Agricultural College, who has reached
retiring age and relinquished
the job last week, with a
present from the old boys and
another from the present stu-
dents to remind him of the col-
lege. Sydney-born, Adams
spent his whole working life in
the public service. At Hawkes-
bury since 1898, he has for
years been treasurer of the
College Old Boys’ Union, and
as such has been able to keep
in touch with many former
students.
Long the doyen of the Aus-
tralian Jewish ministry, Rabbi
Dr. Joseph Abrahams was re-
garded as one of the most
erudite Jewish scholars in the
world: he very narrowly
missed becoming the Chief
Rabbi of the British Empire at
the time Dr. Hertz received
that appointment. Dr. Abra-
hams’s Australian ministry
started 56 years ago. His
health started to fail 14 years
ago when he retired from the
charge of the Melb. Hebrew
congregation, but he lived
on to be 85. Australian writers
owe him some thanks: he was
a subscriber to every book
published in the Common-
wealth, on the principle that
Australia needed a literature,
and that was the best way of encourag-
ing it.
Some September birthdays:
Ex-S.A. Senator Duncan-Hughes, 56, on Ist;
Archbishop Dahig (Bris.), 67, on 2nd; Prof,
knight Francis Anderson (Syd.), 80, and George
Rowe (sec. A.J.C., Syd.), 57, on 3rd; General
(and Senator) Brand (Vic.), 65, on 4th; Mac-
pherson Robertson (Vic.), 78, on 6th; E. J.
Harrison, M.H.R. (Wentworth), 46, on 7th;
Bishop Coleman (Armidale), 51, and Q’land
Attorney-Gen. Mullan, 67, on Bth; P. V.
Storkey, V.C., 47, Dr. J. M. Baldwin (Vic.
Govt. Astronomer), 60, G. W. Martens, M.H.R.
(Herbert), 66, and S.A. Min. for Agric. A. J.
Blesing, 59, on 9th; Adelaide’s ex-Lord Mayor
Lavington Bonython, 63, and Assistant Minister
Thompson, M.H.R. (New England), 53, on
10th; L. J. McKean (N.S.W. Crown Prose-
cutor), 53, on 12th; Field-Marshal Birdwood,
73, and ex-Senator Guthrie, 66, on 13th; W.A.
Chief Justice Northmore, 73, on 14th; W.A.
Min. for Lands Troy, 61, and Prime Minister
Lyons, 59, on 15th; _P r °b Walter Murdoch
(W.A.), 64, and Commander Williams (Navi-
gation Dept., Syd.), 59, on 17th; ex-Prime
Minister Scullin, 62, Justice Webb (N.S.W.),
53, and Alexander McVernon (Q’land Ins. Co.),
67, on 18th; Will Ashton (Director, N.S.W.
National Art Gallery), 57, Q’land Auditor-
General G. L. Beal, 69, and author lon Idriess,
48, on 20th; J. F. Coates, M.L.C. (N.S.W.),
60, on 21st; Bishop Davies (Carpentaria), 55,
on 22nd; Major-General Brudenell White, 62,
on 23rd; Bishop Snowdon Hay (Tas.), 71,
knight Sam Hordern, 62, Col. G. F. Murphy
(N.S.W. Sheriff), 55, and author E. S. Soren-
son, 69, on 24th; W. M. Hughes, 74, on 25th ;
S.A. Chief Justice Murray, 75, on 27th; knight
Herbert Gepp (Melb.), 61, on 28th; Brig.-Gen.
Wisdom (former New Guinea Administrator),
69, Judge White (N.S.W.), 69, Q’land Labor
Min. M. P. Hynes, 52, and author Rev. Father
Eris O’Brien (Syd.), 43, on 29th; ex-Senator
Needham (now M.L.A., W.A.), 64, and F. M.
Cutlack (war historian), 52, on 30th.
Adelaide University relies on its own
men for two new appointments as pro-
fessor. Hurst (experimental medicine)
is already director of the local Institute
of Medical Science ; graduating in 1922,
he has spent all his time since in either
research or teaching. The nerve system
(including the infantile paralysis lately
important) is his strong point. Platt
(bacteriology), who steps up from mere
lecturer, has studied parasites in New
Guinea, and tropical medicine in general.
Norman Lindsay, modelled here by
Frith, needs no introduction to Bulletin
readers or to anyone who knows any-
thing about Australian art. His delinea-
tions of the female form are known
throughout Europe and the United
States; as a comic artist and a poli-
tical cartoonist his work has been
brightening these pages for 40 years
His writings are voluminous, versatile
NORMAN LINDSAY.
(Modelled by Frith.)
and distinctive Saturdee is in its
way as good a classic of Australian
boyhood as Tom Sawyer is of the
American youngster, and Redheap
precipitated a first-rate dust-up with the
Federal censorship. Lindsay’s art out-
put is prodigious, and how he finds time
not only to write but to fashion ancient
galleons, illustrate books and, very
stealthily, give very practical encourage-
ment to budding talent is one of those
mysteries. The calendar says it’s 59
years since he was born at Creswick
(Vic.), but if a man’s as old as he feels
he isn’t a day over 19 ; in spirit Norman
is still The Bulletin’s Youngest In-
habitant. Sons Jack and Philip follow-
father’s literary bent, and both have made
names for themselves in London.
Quite a factor in Maoriland’s pros-
perity has been the development of the
Corriedale breed of sheep, which grow
good wool on a carcass that delights the
butcher’s eye. A grandson of the man
who founded the breed in M.L. and who
JAMES R. LITTLE .
took the first Romney to that country is
James R. Little, who keeps the Corrie-
dale flag flying in South Australia. He’s
a member of the executive of the Corrie-
dale Sheep Society, and is in demand as
a judge of the breed. Plays polo with
Harden, and is keen on dog trials.
Bishop Riley, recently ordained Bishop
? of Bendigo by Archbishop Head, drew
murmurs of admiration from clergy and
laity when he preached his initial sermon
without reference to a Bible or notes. The
new bishop is a son of the late Archbishop
Riley, of Perth. When his father was
receiving a welcome from the venerable
vicar of Albany (W.A.) 45 years ago,
the aged incumbent, who had in his desk
a sermon for every Sunday in the year,
preached as a matter of routine and with-
out malice from Matthew viii., 34, “And
when they saw him they besought him
that he would depart out of their coasts.”
“El V.” discourses about some visitors:
Some of the British delegates to the British
Commonwealth Relations Conference, which is
meeting in a Blue Mountains hotel this week,
are world figures. The Marquess of Lothian
in his youth was the leading draftsman among
Lloyd George’s secretaries at the end of the
war and during the Peace Conference. Now he
is all for moderation and a. chance for Germany
to work out her destiny in friendship with
Britain and her neighbors.
Teachers of history are represented by Alfred
Zimmern, Professor of International Relations
at Oxford, the Australian, W. K. Hancock, who
holds the History chair at Birmingham, and
Norman Bentwich, from the Hebrew University
at Jerusalem.
General John Burnett-Stuart, who recently
retired from the Southern Command, and
Admiral Howard Kelly, who commanded the
China station in 1932 when the Chapei evacua-
tion was signed on his flagship, will speak for the
services. Sir John Pratt, not long ago British
Consul-General in Shanghai, equips the team
with a knowledge of Oriental affairs.
There are experts, also, in most other phases
of Imperial development—Ernest Bevin, one of
Labor’s ablest British advocates, Grace Hadow,
of the old Indian and Foreign Office family which
has been in the middle of history since the year
one, and Hugh Wyndham, of another family
which has been in inner governing circles for
centuries. Last but not least is Lionel Curtis,
whose dark distinction set many an Australian
female heart palpitating when he came to Aus-
tralia in 1910 to further the “Round Table”
movement and the cause of Imperial Federation.
Canada has sent Major-General Griesbach,
a Senator. From Ireland come James Dillon,
the able deputy-leader of the Cosgrave party,
and others. South Africa has Dr. Geyer and
Colonel Stallard, head of the Dominion party.
A flood of Maorilanders, headed by Downie
Stewart, and a numerous collection of Austra-
lians are attending.


“BIRDS OF THE THIRSTY LAND.”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Blue and Dutch, drought-
stricken and lacking credit, formed them-
selves into a committee of ways and
“I'll try this one left-handed!"
means in Barham (N.S.W.). Later, Blue
walked briskly into the bar of a pub
and called for two pots. “Me mate’s
tyin’ up the ’orse,” he explained amiably,
starting on one of the pots. Just then
Dutch rushed in. “Hey,” he cried, “was
that your mate tyin’ up the nag out-
side?” Blue considered him, the pot
at his mouth. “What erbout it?” he
demanded. “He reckons the ’orse ’as a
fistula—wants y’ t’ go an’ ’ave a look,”
said Dutch. Blue went out, expressing
typical bush gratitude by saying, “Better
•ave a drink, mate, till we come back."
Dutch downed the pot, waited awhile,
went to the bar door, looked out, turned
to the publican, ejaculated, "Cripes, the
horse,” and vanished. So two refreshed
wayfarers crossed the border.
* * * *
“Warrigal”: Australians are victims
of tradition in the matter of selecting
suitable plants for hedges, since nothing
but privet and other English favorites
are ever seen. An enthusiastic botanist
1 once struck out in western N.S.W. had
the finest hedge I have ever clapped
eyes on. The plant looked vaguely
familiar, yet was hard to identify. The
proud grower revealed that he had
broadcast the seed of a common river
gum in the trenches he had dug for
the hedge, and fierce competition be-
tween the seedlings had sufficiently
stunted growth to keep the gums manage-
able in size. The miniature forest bore
an amazingly thick crop of leaves, and
was trimmed into as many fancy shapes
as a man could see on a day’s run
through a set of well-kept country rail-
way-stations. Where water is plentiful
the idea is worth a flutter.
* * * *
“Salar”: Add to the list of aquatic
cannibals any species of freshwater fish.
Best method of catching trout, English
perch and blackfish in our district is to
use the young of the various species as
bait. Trout-eggs are another unfailing
lure. The Vic. Fisheries Department,
which has no illusions about the finny
delicacies, is well aware of this fact, and
has prohibited the use of English perch,
tench and carp and trout-eggs for bait
in a number of waters. The taking of
small trout and blackfish is, of course,
illegal in any case.
* * # *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “H.A.L.” paints
one side of the picture (B. 3/ 8 / ’3B). Let
me introduce him to the other. A
number of “Southern Europeans” arrive
at Fremantle. Not one in 20 can speak
English, so they are totally reliant on
the beneficent compatriot who meets
them at the boat with offers of a job.
They transfer immediately from boat to
train, and the following day reach their
job—clearing. Wages—tucker and a share
in a tent or humpy. They’re not used
to the work, but they’re willing, they’re
grateful, they’re game ; and before that
contract’s finished they’ve got the “feel”
of the axe. But they “No spika da Ing,”
so they sign on for another contract at
much *the same rate. Their employer
meanwhile is undercutting British clearers
and making a small fortune. By the
time they’ve picked up the language and
tumbled to things another boat arrives
and they’re forced to compete at low
rates with another batch—themselves, only
worse. Which, I suppose, accounts for
a certain sullenness which should be lack-
ing in newcomers to a hospitable land,
* * * *
•■Centre”: It is pleasing to learn that
someooe js showin £ appreciation for the
~ a*.
name Oodnadatta <8..3 8/ 38) At one
bme ', ™ s the onl y bl ° l on what ™« ht
be an aqueous romance. There
used to be a line of them right up the
Centre—Hergott Springs, Coward Springs,
Charlotte Waters, Alice Springs, Barrow
Creek, Tennant Creek, Newcastle
Waters, Daly Waters every one of
them a straining at well; poetic
license. Then some unimaginative
bureaucrat spoiled it by turning Her-
gott Springs into Marree. Now there
are two gaps in the romance—for a
romance it is, as anyone will discover
if, accepting the names literally, he
starts up that track without an adequate
supply of water. Daly Waters is per-
haps the unkindest cut of all. Not only
is it dry, except for sunk wells, but it
adds to its miseries by being the second
hottest place on the continent.
* * * *
“Hanko”: After reading in a medical
journal of hoary vintage that chrysanthe-
mum-petals make a harmless and satis-
fying substitute for tobacco, I’m ready
to weep over the spot whereon I held my
last garden bonfire. According to the
article the petals are simply prepared by
drying on a sheet of paper placed on a
hot stove. The flowers of brown varieties
are the ones especially recommended,
and they should be crumpled for pipes
and rolled lengthways for cigarettes. Can
any Aboliar tell me how to sool chry-
sanths into early blooming?
~ * „ * . .* _ *
Kuaka : Mention in The Bulleiin
of the necesstty lor safeguarding abo-
rigmal relics recalls that Maori and laced
the same problem and scotched the
export by legislation. The Maori is. _
generous host, and has a way ol loading
visitors wi h the choicest mats meres,
spears and baskets. Now when the
Maori flings a priceless kiwi-feather
mat over the shoulders of a guest it
is understood on both sides that the
action is merely symbolic: the mat stays
in M.L. The needed legislation was not
passed until wholesale exportation of
Maori relics had lost much valuable
material to M.L.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Once and for all, let me
finally protest against the sloppy Abo-
liar who refers to the spider in the web
as “he” (B. 3/ 8 / ’3B). Definitely the web-
spinner is a lady ; the gent., very diminu-
tive, may sometimes be seen dodging
around the outer confines wondering if
it would be safe to venture in. Quite
often he serves in the dual role of hus-
band and wedding breakfast. Another
“he'’ complex that gets my goat is the
emu. Seeing an adult emu with a clutch
of chicks, these observers decide instantly
that it must be the mother. But it isn’t.
The female emu is even more “advanced”
than the bridge-playing human female:
not only does she delegate the rearing
of her offspring to the male, but she
hands over the job to the first one that
happens along. The lady ostrich, how-
ever, goes one better ; she merely lays
the eggs and leaves even the incubation
to the old man.
* * * *
“Narine Cubby”: Black Brother’s
legends? Most of them in my experience
as a youngster in western .Queensland
were about birds and animals. There
was the one about how a snake and a
fish had a dust-up. The snake won and
ever afterwards compelled the fish to
carry his bones as a fin and scales. There
was a similar tale about how a hawk
fighting a porcupine stuck spears all over
him. But the porcupine was a friend
of Murlunga a sinister person of
devilish habits —who promptly enchanted
the hawk so that he was unable to eat
anything but raw meat ever afterwards.
Binghis were great on games, even ball
games. In one I remember, a ball of
stone was sent underarm along the
ground between teams of six or so aside,
a batsman trying to strike it —and, be-
lieve me, Mailey was a circumstance to
some of their slow bowlers. In another,
balls made of fur and clay and worked
as smooth as glass were spun in com-
petition for a prize. One feature in sport
in which Binghi was centuries ahead of
Europeans was that there was no sex
distinction. A lady was just as welcome
to take a crack on the side of the head
in the stick-and-stone game of Toum’llya
as any buck. But, curiously enough, she
had little chance to get at the skipping
ropes made from long, immature tree-
roots or bark.
* * * *
“Agar”: “Salmon Gums’s” “Why?”
(B. 3/ 8 / ”38) admits of a very simple
answer. The health-giving properties of
old Sol are just as efficacious in this
case for the pathogenic dirt-born spores
as they are for the genus homo. Hence
what may be a mud-plaster of inert
spores in the winter becomes a culture
of myriads of thriving wogs in summer,
and when applied as a plaster is ideal
for fester-promotion.
« * * *
“Toto”: The finest example I have
seen of skill and patience is the “pixy-
tree” in the Fitzroy Gardens, Melbourne.
It consists of carvings covering an old
stump to a height of 6ft. Every natural
scar and hollow has been woven into the
finished design with extraordinary in-
genuity. The expressions on the impish
features run the whole gamut of
human emotions, from the Puckish
elves playing around a koala bear to
their slightly scared friends who are
frowned on by a particularly sinister
spider. The dates 1931-34, carved be-
neath the signature of Ola Cohn, indi-
cate the time spent on the work.
* * * *
“Tozer”: Down at the pub some of
the lads were skiting about the weights
they could lift; then old Tom Clarke
chipped in. “You young blokes amuse
me,” he said. “When I was your age
1 could lift a ton!” “Oh, Mr.
Clarke,” said Hebe, “moderate a little,
please.” “All right,” said Tom. “Well,
half a ton, then!”
* * * *
“Toto”: The cooper’s art is difficult to
acquire, but it generously repays those
who succeed. Knew one old hand who
made his own barrel to take exactly
five gallons, and regularly had it filled
at the local brewery. After the first six
months the official dispenser of the pale
bitter decided he knew the exact capacity
of the keg and saved time by just filling
it without measuring. The next time
stocks called for replenishing that same
barrel took just one gallon more. The
wood had been reduced from one inch in
thickness to about three eighths, and a
few more of the neighbors were able
to participate.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: lam tired of “country”
radio-plays which depict monstrosities
such as coastal cow-cockies flourishing in
the Riverina, shire councillors hiring and
firing their own school-teachers for the
shire schools, and wheat-harvesting
straight after the Sydney Show. The
latest and possibly worst break is the
lad on holidays in the country from the
city who was left to turn a separator
and accidentally oiled the vat instead of
the works. He tossed out the damaged
cream, and then filled up the container
with water to hide his crime. So far
so good. Nemesis next descends in the
shape of a dairy inspector, who seriously
sets to work to test the skimmed milk
for fitness for human consumption !
* * * *
“Baghera”: A Brisbane menagerie
has had a bit of luck, one of a couple of
newly-arrived leopard cubs being a black
one. The menagerie man says he can’t
understand it —the cub must be a throw-
back to a black panther. The panther
of any color is the Mrs. ’Arris of the
feline race —“there ain’t no sich pusson.”
In Central and Southern India the
leopard is usually called the panther.
The beast, like all the cats, varies in
colors and markings with its distribu-
tion and environment. For some reason
or other the black leopard is more
often found in Malaysia than elsewhere
over the cat’s wide range. It’s a freak,
like the albino. The condition is known
as melanism and invariably goes with
an infernal temper. If any doubt, let
him next time he meets a black “pan-
ther” coax the handsome brute up to
the bars of the cage and then rub a
palm moistened on the tongue over his
coat like a horse-buyer trying to “bring-
up” a faded brand. This done, the
characteristic “rosettes” of the leopard
show unmistakably through the general
blackness.
FREEDOM’S CHAMPION.
Old Jim leaned on the gate and talked, for
talking was his lurk;
In fact, it could be said to be his favorite
sport and work.
A fierce, aggressive eye he rolled; he blew off
verbal steam:
“The freedom o’ the subject!”—he was on his
special theme.
“These coves ’oo live in forrin places, all of
’em,” said he,
“They’re nothin’ but a knock-kneed lot, you
take it, son, from me!
Why, if they ’ad the inside of a warrigal they’d
kick
At bein’ ordered here an’ there —ah, cripes,
they’d make y’ sick!
“They jump before this Musso.'bloke, an’ ’filer
makes ’em leap;
It’s men they call ’emselves! but, ’strewth! they
take it like a sheep.
You wouldn’t catch us Aussies standin’ that
from anyone.
'Ooever tried dictatin’ ’ere’d soon be in the
gun.”
And so, in somewhat similar but more em-
phatic vein,
Jim lathered into all who human liberties
restrain.
But just as he was in his stride a voice, com-
manding, grim,
A female baritone, came thundering across to
him.
At sound of it Jim gave one nervous, apprehen-
sive look.
“I’ll go now, blokes,” he said, “or else the
missus’ll go crook.
Y’ know y’selves wot wimmen are!” Then,
hast’ning to obey
The call, he sang out: “Yes, Em, yes, I’m
cornin’ right away!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“Wang”: Dad and Mum were driving
home in the car from Kitty Cowbail’s
wedding. Mum was in a sentimental
mood. “Wasn’t it lovely, Dad?” she said ;
“it reminded me of our wedding thirty
years ago.” Dad had a far-away look
in his eyes, too. “Yairs,” he answered ;
“but things ain’t made t’-day like they
w. : when we got hitched.” Mum
snuggled hard against him. “You take
the presents they got. Them rabbit-
traps’ll fall t’ pieces in a coupla years’
time, an’ the same with them hurricane-
lamps. An’ as fer them milk-buckets —
why, they’ll be lucky if they get six
munce use outa them.” Mum glanced
across at Dad in disappointment. “I
thought you was meanin’ me when y’
started talkin’,” she said. “Well,” said
Dad gallantly, “if it comes t’ that, no-
body can say you ain’t lasted well. An’
look at that hat yer wearin’; nobody’d
think yer’d had it fer over twenty years.
Just bears out what I said ’bout things
bein’ made t’ last in our young days.”
They had reached home by this time,
and Mum got out and went flouncing
angrily inside. Dad stared after her,
puzzled. Then enlightenment came to
him. “Spare me days! ” he growled into
the car’s innards, “y’ never can tell how
wimmen will take things. I on’y men-
tioned that damned hat becos I thought
it would please her.”
* * >:•. *
“O. W. Waireki”: The Maori is cer-
tainly a casual customer. Came upon a
native examining his saddle, which was
lying on the ground beside his whare
paddock fence. “Tat tarn pig,” he
growled, “he chew te stuffing out last
night, an’ te night before he gnaw off te
stirrup-leather.” “Why don’t you take it
inside out of the brute’s road?” I re-
marked. Henare looked really hurt.
“Take it inside?” he echoed. “You don’t
tink I got time to do everyting, do
you?”
“Rum Jungle”: I don’t know anything
about this walking the metals that some
of these Bulletin blokes have been talk-
ing about, but I do know a bit about
walking the sleepers. But you don’t do
too much even of that on the Darwin
“Throw yourself into it! Make it look as though you loved your work!"
to Birdum line. Just to discourage motor-
ists from using the track for a speedway
(the outside country being too rough
almost for words) the N.T. railway
authorities lace the sleepers at intervals
with barbed-wire.
“It be raining outside, sir, an I didn't Want Water to get into milk."
“E.M.F.”: “Whaler’s” explanation (B.
17/8/’3B) of why anew billy takes
longer to boil than an old, blackened
one won’t hold scientific water. Absorp-
tion and radiation from bright surfaces
are practically nil; they only reflect.
On the other hand, blackened surfaces
are very efficient both at absorbing and
radiating heat. Thus, though the water
is heated in both cases by conduction,
the black billy gains by absorption,
whereas the bright one loses by reflection.
* * * *
“Notaden”: “L.A.S.” (B. 17/8/’3B)
may confidently disregard revolving eyes
or moving shadows as the explanation
of why a string of sheep will play
follow-my-leader over a non-existent
obstacle. It goes back to the original
sheep, inhabitants of precipitous moun-
tains, as are the moufflon and other species
of wild sheep of to-day. When alarmed
the flock bolted for the most inaccessible
country available, and skipped along
narrow ledges in single file. Only the
leader could see what Was in front, and
when he came to a crack or rock he
naturally jumped it. His next in line
jumped when the leader did, and each
following individual did likewise on
seeing the next ahead jump. Those that
didn’t, or jumped in the wrong place, did
not survive to perpetuate the species.
Goats, near-relatives of sheep, have the
same impulse for the same reasons, but
a jot more brains to reduce it to prac-
tical use.
“Walkabout”: In spite of “Oran” (B.
10/8/’38), Idriess might have heard the
“distant barking of station cattle-dogs”
in the West Kimberleys. A couple of
stations- out that way had packs of
heelers when I was there. Except where
scrubbers exist, however, few managers
will tolerate cattle-dogs ; if cattle aren’t
wild before their introduction, Bluey and
co. will soon make them. On one station
where I attended a muster there were
half a dozen dogs to every stockman,
and. when driving the mustered cattle to
the yards a man had to have his prad
moving along at around six m.p.h. to
keep within coo-ee of the mob. No fats
ever left that station, for obvious reasons,
and to hear the mulga crashing in every
direction all one had to do on seeing
cattle was to bark like a dog. A fort-
night in that camp showed me just how
out of place was an uncontrolled pack
of dogs on a cattle-station.
£ cl $
“D. Beech”: For the Fisheries exhibit
at the Brisbane Royal Show ,a fish,
3ft. 6in. long, was sent from the market
for exhibition as a tunny. It was a species
of tunny all right—the yellow-fin tuna,
the world’s best canning fish. The iden-
tification was made
by the Queensland
Museum fish-
authority, so that it
is no mere matter
of opinion. The
only previous re-
port of yellow-fin
tuna in Australian
waters was made
by Zane Grey,
who gave a photo-
graph of the fish
to the Sydney
Museum and stated
that he had seen
large numbers off
the south N.S.W.
coast while fishing
for swordfish. The
blue-fin tuna,, an-
other fish of first-
r a t e commercial
value, has been re-
cently reported in
quantity off the
Tasmanian east
coast and in Bass
Strait.
* *
“C o i r”: Con-
gratulate “N o r’-
west” (B. 17/8/’38)
on his ingenious
hypothesis that the
original seeds of
the baobab tree
found in n.-w. Aus-
tralia drifted thou-
sands of miles from west to east
across the ocean in the teeth of all
known trade-winds and on currents that
are marked on no map I have seen —and
I have a particularly good atlas before
me at the present moment. Also, if all
I have read and been told is true, the
baobab is a lover of the dry inlands and
not in a position to cast its bread upon
the waters, so to speak. Further, though
it is found in West Africa as well as
East, it has never crossed the Atlantic
to South America. The banyan is no
analogy. Figs of all varieties, including
the banyan, are indigenous to Australia,
and were probably here before the land
connection with Eastern Asia broke up
and left this country stranded.
* * * *
“Carysfort”: Members of the Council
seem to be arguing about telegony on
insufficient data. The idea of a foal
throwing back to a previous mate of
the dam, so prevalent among stockmen
and others, is due to a vivid imagination
and unscientific reasoning. Impregnation
is the union of one male and one female
germ cell, and each contributes to
heredity. A male germ cell has an in-
dependent life of a few days only, and
cannot possibly survive to affect a second
mating. If this were not so the result
would be a second, mule, and this could
even occur without a further mating.
Actually, the physical peculiarities in the
offspring of a mare inevitably come from
an ancestor, no matter how distant. The
belief in telegony is on all fours with
the even more prevalent idea of pre-natal
influence in humans. An appetite for
strawberries and a very far-fetched re-
semblance to that fruit in a consequent
birthmark is taken as “proof” of the
latter. If there were anything in pre-
natal influence many a child would be
born decorated with a still-life, study of
table delicacies.
* * * *
“Ellenvale”: Three cat cobbers in a
Melbourne suburb have brought dog-
hunting to a fine art. One cat stations
itself outside a back gate, and when a
dog approaches puss spits half-heartedly
and sprints for the safety of the yard.
As Towser gives chase the other two
Toms dash out from hiding and attack
the unfortunate tyke from the rear, while
the first one does a surprising comeback
and deals out stoush from the front line.
The local dogs are a wake-up to the com-
bination, but the three strategists derive
quite a lot of fun from visiting hounds.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Any indication of
somnolence or self-satisfaction in this
par. may be ascribed to the fact that I
have ju§t filled up to the coamings with
Australia’s best-flavored fish. Snapper,
sez you? Or Tasmanian trumpeter?
Rats to both. This afternoon we got,
on the ocean beach, 20 cases of full-roed
sea mullet. None of your half-roed
estuary stuff, but the genuine sea-matured
northern pilgrim whose coming ex-
tinction by idiotically uncontrolled cap-
ture will be regretted by future Aus-
tralian generations. Filleted, each of the
two boneless pounds was grilled over a
clear fire, lightly basted with butter the
while. That’s the way I like ’em, but
broiled, fried or the whole fish boiled
with sauce and parsley additions, it’s the
best fish-food to be found in any of the
many seas upon whose denizens I have
fed. And, if you smoke the roes, it’s
the best-paying fish to the professional.
AFTER RAIN.
To twenty thousand pairs of eyes these days
Make prelude for the harvest: dawn till dusk,
Out west, with growing warmth, the sunlight
plays
On wheat that soon will strive to fill the husk.
For from his dark tents on the hills the rain
Has flung his cold, bright treasure down the
sky;
The fields have taken their green robes again
Out where the pale grass-parrots feed and fly.
Creeks, mute for many months, have learnt
white speech
Among the lichened rocks, and softer sound
To utter on each reed-flanked, sandy reach,
Shadowed by banks in soft green moss
wrapped round.
And further out, along broad, treeless lanes,
The brown mobs trickle, browsing as they go
On the sweet herbage of late winter rains,
Travelling as the sun, only more slow.
N.S.W.
T. Rose.


I
I
M.
VM !
m
b
COMPETENT
MANAGEMENT
of Agricultural
and Pastoral Properties
In its 61 st year of experience in the manage-
ment of Station and Farm Properties, The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited is able to offer invaluable assistance
to those concerned about the future care
and management of property.
Management by the Company relieves
dependents of many worrying problems.
Full details are available on application.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
C. AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
. (Incorporated in Victoria, June 14, 1878)
(Registered in New South Wales, 1907)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA, NOW IN
ITS 61st YEAR OF SERVICE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits,
£959,810.
101 & 103 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. « 1-5 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY
BOARD OF DIRECtOUS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.B., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.O., D.S.O.,
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
W. D. Stewart. R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
GENERAL MANAGER: W. SYDNEY JONES.
MANAGER: K. M. HUGHES.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’llote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M4BOI.
The LUDOWICS ALL-STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
ĵ
Possesses much greater
STRENGTH RIGIDITY
ACCURACY LIGHTNESS
ACCESSIBILITY
J. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
||7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY, 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 222,617 10 p.c. = 268,774 3,481,877
1929. . 332.671 10 „ ~ 268,771 63,900 3,545,777
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,345.777
Share premiums, £120,000 .. .. 3,465,777
1930.. 161,890 Nil 161,890 3,627,667
1931.. 83,257 Nil 83,257 3,710,924
1932.. 103,720 Nil 103,720 3,814,644
Written oft old plant, £200,000 .. 3,614,644
1933.. 313,617 10 p.c. = 298,771 14,846 3,629,490
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,429,490
1934.. 427,588 10 p.c. = 298,771 128,817 3,558,307
1935.. 670,442 10 „ „ 298,771 371,671 3,929.978
Share premiums, £1,597,110.. .. 5,527,088
1936.. 850,361 12i p.c.= 435,778 414,583 5,941,671
Share premiums, £374,965 .. .. 6,316,336
1937. 1,183,171 124 p.c.= 559,880 623,291 6,939,927
Share premiums, £413,923 .. .. 7,353,850
To staff fund, £40,000 .. .. 7,313,850
1938.1,340,461 12£ p.c.= 670,562 669,899 7,983,749
Another outstanding performance. Output
of this great Australian iron-and-steel en-
terprise has doubled in the fast four years,
partly because materials previously im-
ported have been replaced by the co.’s
high-grade products, the range of which
has been greatly expanded, and partly
because of improvement in conditions
generally and the growing turnover of
a group of subsidiary interests. Expand-
ing production of the blooming, heavy,
bar, merchant and rod mills called for
more steel ingots, which meant a bigger
output of pig-iron, to produce which ad-
ditional iron ore (drawn from the co.’s
own deposits on Eyre’s Peninsula) and
limestone (obtained from the hills near
Davenport, Tas.) were required. It all
meant substantial additions to the coke
ovens, and to plant and equipment in
every other section of the business.
During the last term the various pro-
ducing plants continued to operate at
high pressure. The three blast furnaces
turned out an extra 4988 tons of pig-
iron. Another open-hearth furnace was
placed in commission, making 13 in all,
and the output of steel ingots moved up
71,131 tons. The co.’s capacity in this
section is now a million tons annually:
1932. 1934. 1937. 1938.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Pig-iron . . 153,563 346,752 669,532 674,520
Steel ingots* 190,183 414,245 783,138 854,269
Coke.. .. 167,160 361,109 600,111 602,165
* Includes foundry open-hearth furnace.
The two batteries of Wilputte ovens
produced an additional 2054 tons of
coke, with proportionate increases in
by-products — tar, ammonium sulphate,
naphthaline, toluol and xylol. Although
there was a small rise in selling
prices during the year, the co. is still
supplying Australian consumers with
steel cheaper than it can be obtained
elsewhere in the world.
Expanding turnover of subsidiaries has
also contributed to the demand for
B.H.P.’s products, and helped to swell
returns from its investments, too. Sub-
sidiary undertakings include Rylands
Bros., Stewarts and Lloyds, B.H.P. Col-
lieries, B.H.P. By-products, Australian
Wire Rope Works, Bullivants (selling
agents for the rope co.), Commonwealth
Steel, Lysaght Bros., Structural Steel Co.
(W.A.), Titan Wire and Nail Pty., and
Millfield Greta Collieries. And there
is Australian Iron and Steel, in which
B.H.P. owns all the £4,700,007 of
ord. capital, £2,000,000 of which it took
up at par during the last term. A.I. and
S. has not yet paid an ord. div., but it
is ultimately expected to be a substantial
contributor to the pool, and there is
much in its published figures to support
the claim. B.H.P. is the largest share-
holder in Commonwealth Aircraft, Ltd.
(capital £600,000), and is also interested
in Imperial Chemical Industries of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, Ltd.
On the mining side, the old silver-
lead property at the Barrier is worked
out and will be closed down in Novem-
ber next. It has not made any net
contribution to the parent’s finances
since it was reopened in 1936. Still, it
was this mine, once one of the richest
of its kind in the world, which provided
the money with which the steelworks
were first started, in 1913. In 53 years
it produced 12,280,000 tons of ore, from
which 1,445,000 tons lead, 189,457,0000 z.
silver and 603,000 tons zinc were re-
covered.
The year’s sales, etc., sprang £503,887,
reaching a record £8,404,304, or more
than twice the 1934 figure. Working
profit benefited by £187,939 of the in-
crease, and returns from investments
were up £41,004, making the improve-
ment in gross earnings from all sources
£228,943:
Gross earnings:— 1929. 1937. 1938.
Working profit .. £795,953 £2,149,517 £2,337,456
Interest, divs., etc. 142,968 214,991 255,995
Total .. .. £938,921 £2,364,508 £2,593,451
Exes.:—
Depreciation ..£417,592 £670,801 £709,054
Office and other exes. 61,854 142.130 111,293
Debenture interest 81,094 18,406 12,643
Income tax .. 45,710 350,000 420,000
Total exes. ... £606,250 £1,181,337 £1,252,990
The saving of £30,837 in office and
other exes, may have some connection
with the contribution to the staff fund,
shown separately at • £40,000. The
net growth of £71,653 in total exes,
was on account of provision for
taxation, £420,000 (up £70,000), equal
to 7.8 p.c. on average ord. capital. The
allowance for depreciation was equal to
11 p.c. of the book value of the steel-
works and other plant, etc., at the end
of May. At that rate plant, etc., would
be written out of the books in a little
over nine years. The net result
(£1,340,461, up £157,290) was 24.9 p.c. on
average capital as against 26.4, 24.4, 22.4,
14.3, 10.5, 3.4, 2.7, 5.4 and 12.3 p.c. back
to 1929. When the books closed reserves
were piled £2,176,416 higher than paid
capital, so on the two combined the net
result was a shade under 10 p.c. The
div. was kept at 12| p.c., but share
premiums (£2,385,998 has been so
gathered during the last three years) take
some of the gilt off the gingerbread.
During the last term 1,730,405 new
pound shares were issued at 30s. each.
Including the residue of the previous
year’s issue, £825,319 of Capital and
£413,923 of share premiums were re-
ceived, leaving £1,143,443 of capital and
£576,000-odd of premium moneys still to
come. The share premiums were added
to reserves, up £1,043,822. The co. leant
upon sundry creditors for an extra
£380,970: —
Liabilities.
Sundry
Paid Creditors,
May, Capital. Reserves. Debentures. Etc.
SL £ £ &
1929.. 2,687,708 3,345,777 1,125,100 1,005,336
1931.. 2,987,708 3,710,924 862,900 729,353
1933.. 2,987,708 3,629,490 624,200 1,022,179
1934.. 2,987,708 3,558,307 480,000 1,190,337
1935.. 2,987,708 3,929,978 365,400 1,206,968
1936. , . 4,249,851 5,941,671 286,600 1,160,646
1937.. 4,982,014 6,939,927 211,100 1,340,146
1938.. 5,807,333 7,983,749 135,600 1,721,116
Assets.
Steelworks,
and Other Stocks, Book Investments,
Plant, Etc. Stores, Etc. Debts. Cash, Etc.
1929 .. £5,711,522 £512,871 £848,637 £1,064,486
1931.. 5,954,085 514,063 442,492 1,244,840
1933 . , 5,648,401 488,965 707.466 1,386,014
1934 . . 5,689,731 572,500 709,405 1,224,718
1935 . . 5,411,367 827,569 602,171 1,628,948
1936 . . 5,600,041 856,674 1,247.431 3,914,624
1937 . , 5,435,760 957,883 2,354,943 4.999,987
1938 .. 6,443,189 1,467,856 1,167,007 6,904,035
In addition, the mine now figures at £lO,OOO.
The net addition to the book value of
the steelworks and other plant, including
the new blast furnace at Whyalla (S.
Aus.), where construction has com-
menced, was £1,007,429, and stocks, etc.,
were up £509,973. The apparent reduc-
tion of £1,187,936 in debtors’ balances
and growth of £1,904,048 in investments,
cash, etc., were connected with the
2,000,000 shares taken in A.I. and S.
Shares in other cos. now figure at
£6,082,357 (up £2,307,800) and cash at
£821,678 (down £403,752).
Cost of the blast furnace at Whyalla
is estimated at £1,178,000. In addition,
about £155,000 is to be spent on wharves,
channels and approaches, £59,000 on a
jetty and storage bin at Rapid Bay near
by, where a large deposit of limestone
occurs, and £27,000 on extension of the
Whyalla steam power plant. A future
possibility is the erection of coke ovens,
open-hearth furnaces and rolling mills
here.
Since the beginning of 1938 the price
of the f.-p. pound shares has fluctuated
between 655. 3d. and 58s. 9d. on the
market. Last week-end the figure was
595. 3d., at which the return is 4.2 p.c.
on a 124 p.c. div. basis. Visibly the cover
is 445. Bd. in net tangibles.
Meggitt, Ltd.
, Div i (lends N
Prefi*
Mnv. Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deficit.
e £ £ £
1928.. 30,027 4000 74 p.c. = 24,562 98,218
4uuo 7$ ~ ~ 24,a52 95,385
1930.. 31,628 4000 6J „ „ 22,506 90,263
1931.. 617 4000 l| „ „ 6,138 99,784
1932.. 7,623 3400 ■ 24 „ „ 8,184 103,745
1933.. 25,968 3100 5 „ „ 16.368 97.245
1934.. 29,078 3100 6 „ „ 16,368 87,635
1935.. 30,354 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 76,749
j- 3400 8* „ ~ 27 826 64,490
1937.. 45,020 4000 10 ~ 32,737 50,213
1938.. 46,464 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 46,486
" .Minject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October 1, 1931.
This co , with factories at Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Port Adelaide, is the biggest
manufacturer of linseed cake and oil in
Australia, and its earnings (figures for
the last three years are the best • yet)
reflect results of the directors’ far-
sighted policy, the foundations of which
were laid about 10 years ago. The prob-
lem was to find a market for the oil, a
ton of which results from every two tons
of cake produced. To help overcome
these difficulties, the chairman induced
Michael Nairn and Co., the Scottish
lino, people, to set up here, and then
made arrangements with Blundell Spence,
of Hull (Eng.), to use that co.’s trade-
marks.
Scarcely had this been done when
the collapse of prices and fluctuations in
the exchange value of currencies—the co.
buys its chief raw material (linseed)
mainly from India and S. America—
changed the outlook. Still, the co. came
through without showing a loss or fail-
ing to pay a div. Meanwhile, the man-
agement turned attention to the dairying
districts, where the demand for linseed-
cake, which increases the supply of milk
and enriches the butterfats, expanded
rapidly. As prices and exchange settled
down, and conditions in the pastoral,
paint and lino, industries improved, Meg-
gitt’s figures advanced, and have con-
tinued to do so, enabling the co. to reduce
the selling price of its products.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, demand in the cake and
oil sections of the business was well
maintained. After providing for taxa-
tion and allowing £10,105 (up £673) for
depreciation, the declared net result was
£1444 better at £46,464. The 10 p.c.
prefs., which for five years to the close
of accounts in 1936 suffered a 22\ p.c.
statutory cut under the N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act, got their full
contract rate again, and enough remained
to show 13 p.c. on ord. capital, as
against 12.5 p.c. for the previous term.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c. The £9727
that remained reduced the amount of
capital unrepresented .by tangibles to
£46,4B6—goodwill (£115,747) is not
treated as an asset herein.
Finances are comfortable:
1931. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £367,369 £367,369 £367,369 £367,369
Liabilities . . 61,113 142,076 195,810 109’,512
plant '. . 162,717 165,744 183,172 195,893
Stocks .. 113,006 140,558 190.049 155,726
Book debts . . 43,178 62,251 62,388 50,530
Gash, etc. . . 17,875 132,626 134,640 101,238
Arrival of a shipment of linseed just be-
fore the close of accounts in 1937 ex-
plains the reduction of £79,067 in drafts
for linseed (£86,131) and of £34,323 in
stocks. To meet the difference, reduce
the amount coming to sundry creditors
(£23,381) by £7232, and add £12,731 net
to the book value of fixed assets, book
debts were lowered by £11,858 and cash,
etc. (the etcetera is £78,407 invested in
shares in other cos.), was drawn upon
for £33,402. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£197,982)
was £6715.',
Capital is in 20,000 first and a like
number of second 10 p.c. cum. prefs. and
369,182 ords., of which 313,431 are fully


paid and the balance paid to ss. each.
There is nothing to suggest that the con-
tribs. are likely to be asked for more at
an early date. The market prices the
f.-p. ords. at 335. 3d., the contribs. at
8s 3d., the first prefs. at 325. 6d. and
the seconds at 30s. On an all-round 10
p.c. div. basis the returns at these figures
are 6,6, 6.1 and 6.6 p.c. respectively. The
net tangible cover is £l6 Os. lid. firsts,
£ls os. lid. seconds and 17s. 2d. per
pound of paid-up ord. capital.
#
Carreras, Ltd. (Melb.)
t Dividends ~ Towards
Net Pref. Re- Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Share premiums, £33,794 .. .. 32,467
1931.. 6,083 4800 Nil 1,283 33,750
1932.. 8,292 4800 Nil 3,492 37,242
1933.. 11,273 5800 25 p.c. = 2,500 2,973 40,215
1934.. 18,558 6800 43.7* „ 4,379 7,379 47,594
Bonus scrip issued, £40,000 .. .. 7,594
1935.. 21,720 6800 12* p.c. = 6,250 8.670 16,264
1936.. 31,823 6800 20 „ „ 10,000 15,023 31,287
1937.. 45,130 6800 33J „ „ 16,066 21,664 52,951
Obsolescence reserve taken in, £ 10,000.. 62,951
From contingency reserve, £25,000.. 87,951
Reserves
1938.. 81,452 6800 33J p.e.= 41,666 32,986 45,937
* 10 p.c. on ord. capital and share premiums
combined.
Formed in 1919, the old co. —first it was
Sniders and Abrahams and then G. G.
Goode —had done no good for itself;
the ords. lost 18s. of each pound of
paid capital, and the margin of protec-
tion for the prefs., both for divs. and
capital, was slender. Now the pref. capi-
tal is covered over times by net tan-
gibles, while last year’s net earnings were
over 12 times their annual div. require-
ments, and juicy returns are being won
for the ords.
The turning-point was in 1930, when
slump and the tariff provided an oppor-
tunity to link up with Carreras, Ltd., the
prosperous English concern which
specialises in manufacture of Craven A
cigarettes—it bought the ords. at a sub-
stantial premium, and with them control.
A factory was put up at Prahran (Vic.)
in 1931, and the English co. found the
money for this and for extra stocks. The
debt has since been repaid mainly or
wholly out of surplus earnings. A couple
of years later the business of Morris and
Johnson (they used to be distributors of
the co.’s products in N. S. Wales) was
welded into the organisation at a cost of
£20,000 in f.-p. prefs. Then in 1934
£40,000 of bonus scrip was handed to the
ords. —£33,749 from share premiums and
the balance from undistributed profits.
Last term capital increased by £150,000,
of which one-half was cash and the
other half bonus scrip, of which £25,000
came from allowance for contingencies,
lumped with provision for taxation in the
published accounts. That made paid
capital £268,000 in 68,000 £1 10 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 800,000 ords. of ss. each (the
old ords. were consolidated into ss.
shares).
Consumption of cigarettes and tobacco
in Australia has moved in this way:
Cigarettes, Tobacco, Total,
Year, Pounds. Pounds. Pounds.
1928-29 . . 6,357,779 14,116,648 20,474,427
1931-32 . . 4,084,046 13,557,325 17,641,371
1934- . . 4,770,064 14,088,562 18,838,626
1935- . . 5,190,065 14,598,251 19,788,316
1936- . . 5,733.307 14,997,391 20,770,698
1937- .. 6,204,124 16,396,755 22,600,879
Compared with 1928-29 fewer cigarettes
were smoked but more tobacco was con-
sumed during the 12 months to June 30
last; the two combined showed an in-
crease of about 10 p.c. Since Sept., 1935,
customs and excise duty on cigarettes
and tobacco (used for pipes and roll-
your-own cigarettes) have been 12s. 2d.
and Bs. per pound respectively, a differ-
ence of 4s. 2d. compared with 4s. Bd.
previously.
With the aid of a well-planned and
vigorous advertising campaign, and the
assistance of the parent organisation,
which has meant much so far as buying
and finance are concerned, the sales of
this Australian co. have bounded along.
Gross earnings, which were £43,929 in
1930, reached £262,650 last term, when
the improvement was £72,484. Another
pleasing feature is that exes. (£181,198,
up £36,162) took 69 p.c. of gross as
against 76, 77 and 85 p.c. for the three
preceding years. The declared net result
(£81,452, up £36,322) was sufficient to
pay the prefs. their £6BOO and show 37.3
p.c. on ord. capital as it now stands. The
div. was kept at 33 1-3 p.c., which is
equal to 62.8 p.c. on cash-paid capital,
including the share premiums capitalised.
Financially the co. is well equipped:
1924. 1933. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £71,226 £78,000 £IIB,OOO £268,000
Overdraft . . 33,794 13,083 3,716
Creditors .. 12,882 134,773 75,847 36,108
Freeholds .. 64,093 58,470 66,995
Plant, etc. .. 11,757 30,427 31,817 29,486
Stocks .. 50,076 137,242 164,054 190 019
Book debts .. 20,273 43,019 52.211 75J25
Cash, etc. .. 1,377 894 1,067 5’2,466
Subsidiary co, 20,000 20,000 20^000
The £75,000 of fresh cash-paid capital,
together with the year’s surplus earnings’
enabled the overdraft (£3716 at the
previous balance) to be wiped out
£39,739 to be snipped off the amount
coming to sundry creditors, £25,965 to
be added to stocks, £23,514 to debtors’
balances and £51,399 to cash, etc. Obvi-
ously there has been a very substantial
all-round improvement in the business.
The year’s growth in the more or less
liquid surplus (£282,102, including stocks
but not shares in the subsidiary) was
£144,333.
At 395. the prefs., covered by £4
12s. 4d. in net tangibles, yield 5.1 p.c.
The ords. are not listed.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Dividends and Written
June, Profit. Dividend Tax. Off.t Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 41,145 10 p.c. = 29,885 2,760 82,000
1929.. 44,058 12J „ „ 37,356 1,702 87,000
1930.. 39,674 10 „ ~ 29,885 3,789 93,000
1931.. 31,167 8 „ „ 23,908 7.259 93,000
Contingency reserve included, £40,973.. 133,973
To Re-
serves.
1932.. 21,365 7 p.c. = 20,920 445 134,418
1933.. 20,924 7 „ „ 20,920 4 134,422
1934.. 22,406 7 „ „ 20,920 1,486 135,908
Pref. Ord.
5 J p.c. 7 p.c.
1935.. 30,265 8,613 20,920 732 136.640
1936.. 33.326 10,957 20,920 1,449 138,089
1937.. 48,417 10,957 36,973 487 138,576
1938.. 53,889 10,957 41,309 1,623 140,199
tAdded to contingency reserve.
For over 30 years it was a modest little
concern, paying moderate divs. on a
small capital (£83,975 in 1919), which
has now expanded to nearly a million.
As Perkins’s slipped into the shadows
the Queensland saw fresh opportunities,
and seized them. Together with Castle-
maine-Perkins, the co. now supplies most
of the beer consumed in Queensland,
especially in the thirsty western and
southern portions of the State. There is
no price-cutting in the trade. Competi-
tion takes the form of buying up hotel
freeholds, thus widening and anchoring
turnover.
Since the close of accounts in 1932,
£1,016,574 net has been added to the
book value of fixed assets, mainly on
account of the purchase of hotel prop-
erties ; additions were also made to the
plant, and new brews of draught and
bottled beer, reported to be popular,
have been placed on the market. Over
the same period, debtors’ balances have
been reduced by £54,696, and £35,649
net has been added to stocks, while the
growth in capital account amounts to
£698,082, and in the amount coming to
sundry creditors £279,607 net:
1932. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £298.851 £498,085 £747,700 £996,933
Creditors .. 97,379 540,171 514,478 376,986
Fixed assets.. 286.433 959,782 1,181,013 1,303.007
Stocks .. 77,055 100,212 104,567 112,704
Book debts .. 167,862 120,560 127,261 113.166
Cash, etc. .. 8,265 11,731 12,586 12,832
The £249,233 of fresh capital gathered
last term was used to lighten the debt
by £137,492 and add £121,994 to the
book value of fixed assets. Book debts
were reduced by £14,095, and £8137 was
added to stocks. They are healthy move-
ments, which augur well for the future,
subject, of course, to economic and
other developments. When the books
closed, outside liabilities, of which
£346,118 was coming to secured credi-
tors, exceeded more or less liquids by
£138,284, an improvement of £131,780
over the twelvemonth. The floating debt
(£30,868) was well covered.
Although earnings have stepped up
following the purchases already referred
to and the improvement in conditions
generally, much of the million-odd
pounds added to fixed assets over the
last eight years has not yet developed
full earning power. During the last
term the brewery was closed for approxi-
mately a month, owing to industrial
trouble. After striking off £16,522 (down
£5315) for depreciation, the declared net
result was £5472 better at £53,889, or
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
7.5 p.c. on average ord. capital, com-
pared with 7, 7.4, 7.2, 7.4, 7, 7.1, 10.4,
13.2 and 14.7 p.c. back to 1929. The
div. was kept at 7 p.c., and seems likely
to remain there —for a while, at any rate.
At 265. the ords., backed by 235. 6d.
in net tangibles, return 5.4 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 225. lOd.
yield 4.8 p.c.. They are covered by £5
14s. Id. in net tangibles, last year’s net
earnings were approximately five times
their annual requirements, and they par-
ticipate in new share issues.
Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
t Dividenus Nominal
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.!
1928 .. 51,660 1980 10 p.c. s= 38.917 142.366
1929 . . 59,312 1980 10 „ „ 38,917 160,781
1930 .. 43,065 1980 9 „ „ 35,025 166.841
1931 .. 1,999 1980 . Nil 166,860
Loss.
1932 .. 4,745 17331 Nil 160,382
Profit.
1933 .. 15,789 1650 J 2* p.c. = 9,729 164,792
6 p.c. , ,i
1934 .. 27,855 1980 6 „ ~ 23.350 .167,317
1935 .. 28.614 1980 . 61,; „ 25,296 168,655
1936 .. 29,318 1980 6f„ „ 25.296 170,697
Earmarked for depreciation, £19,650.. 151,047
1937 . . 29,548 1980 7 p.c. = 27.242 151,373
1938 .. 40,019 1980 8 ~ ~ 36,338 153.074
* 5 p.c. from Oct. 1, 1931. t Subject to goodwill,
£25,000.
Shareholders’ prospects look better than
at any time since slump and the exten-
sion into Martin-place interrupted a long
run of 10 p.c. divs. in 1930. Although
the new wintergarden, banquet hall,
bar, bevery and several new upper floors
were all completed over a couple of
years ago, the Coronation diverted a
lot of high-class trade for which the
Australia caters, and the co.’s ’37
accounts got little benefit from the en-
larged and improved premises. The 12
months to June 30 last included Syd-
ney’s sesquicentenary celebrations, which
brought a lot of overseas and other visi-
tors to the city; so did the special
arrangements made for commemoration
of Anzac Day, and the co. got its full
share of the extra trade available.
So, despite the fall in the price of
wool and wheat, the board was able to
write net earnings £10,471 better than
the previous year’s at £40,019. That was
after setting aside £II,OOO (up £3000)
for the taxgatherer and allowing £IO,OOO
(down £350) for depreciation. The
£40,019 was enough to pay the prefs.
their 6 p.c. (£1980) and show 8.3 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 7,7, 6.8,
6.6 and 3 p.c. back to 1933. A point
was added to the div., making it 8 p.c.
Whether the year’s net earnings were
any better than claimed depends upon
what amount was spent on renewals and
additions to equipment, etc., and charged
up to working exes. The property, plant,
etc., have been well maintained and the
hotel kept at a high standard, the chair-
man says, while fixed assets appear un-
altered at £947,937. No specific allow-
ance for depreciation was openly made
until a couple of years ago ; the reserve
for this purpose now figures at £40,000.
Early in the term 57,834 new ords.
were issued at par, making paid capital
£500,003, of which £33,000 carries a
fixed cumulative 6 p.c. The fresh capi-
tal and more besides was used to snip
£25,000 off the mortgage and £42,030
off the amount coming to sundry
creditors:
1928. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Stock.. ..£15,235 £11,548 £8,544 £8,884
Book debts, etc. 35,206* 6,368 7,133 7,453
Cash, etc. .. 1,400 1,800 1,800 29,093
Liquid assets £51,841 £19,716 £17,477 £45,430
Mortgage ) ~ o g9 oz 4 o ßfi 1 300,000 275,000
Creditors j 44,48- dbi, dßb 7 0>31 4 28,284
Excess
liabilities. £7,459t £334,670 £352,837 £257’,854
Property and
equipment.. 552.524 917,149 947,937 947,937
Paid capital. . 422.169 422,169 422,169 500,003
* Includes investments. t Liquid surplus.
The allowance for taxation, depreciation
and more was put in the bank, the growth
in the cash holding being £27,293. The
year’s improvement in the financial posi-
tion was £94,983, and the floating debt
was more than covered by cash alone
when the books closed.
Although the outlook is not so bright
as it was a year ago and costs are still
on the up-grade, 8 p.c. may not prove
beyond the co.’s reach for the current
term. The ords. at 245. 6d. (265. a year
ago) return 6.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis, or 5.7 p.c. on a 7 p.c. distribution.
The prefs. at 245. yield 5 p.c. The net
tangible cover is £l9 os. 7d. prefs. and
255. 6d. ords.
Moreheads, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Towards Re-
April, Profit. Dividend. Reserves, serves.
1927.. 14,768 12* p.c. = 11,250 3518 25,178
1928.. 16,624 12* „ „ 11,250 5374 30,552
1929.. 15,582 12„ 13,656 1926 32,478
1930.. 12,027 8 „ „ 11,233 794 33,272
1931.. 10,677 6 „ „ 9,599 1078 34,350
Profit on sale of shares, £22,097.. 56,447
1932.. 7,987 5£ p.c. = 8,797 55,637
1933.. 8,093 5 „ „ 7,998 95 55,732
Unexplained addition to reserves, £2365.. 58,097
1934.. 10.790 6 p.c. = 9,598 1192 59,289
Unexplained addition to reserves, £2000.. 61,289
1935.. 6,399 4 p.c. = 6,399 61,289
June,
1936.. 8,220 4J*, „ 7.200 1200 62,309
Transferred to rebate account, £2000.. 60,309
1937.. 10,854 6 p.c. = 9,600 1254 61,563
1938.. 9,776 5 „ „ 8,000 1776 63,339
* £3 17s. Id. p.c. p.a.
After a run of 15 p.c. divs. the rate
dropped to 12£ p.c. for the four years to
the close of accounts in 1929 ; drought
and loss of the Brisbane agency for the
Orient line affected the figures. Then,
just as the board decided to go deeper
into the pastoral-finance business —more
share capital and outside money were
gathered for the purpose —came the big
break in the markets, and there was a
sharp contraction in commission and
other earnings, jwhile overhead remained
stubborn. Also, during the last few years,
the co. has made a rebate (amount un-
specified) of commissions to clients. So,
from one cause and another, divs. over
the last nine years have averaged only
5.5 p.c.
During the 12 months to the close of
last accounts, 483,557 (down 8709) bales
of wool were auctioned in Brisbane, but
the cheque for the lot (£7,629,006) was
£3,064,672 lighter, the price having fallen
steadily from 16.51 d. per pound at the
beginning to 11.98 d. at the end of the
season. A closed season for opossums
also affected earnings in the skin sec-
tion of the business. Conditions in the
livestock and real-estate markets were
more satisfactory.
The co.’s gross earnings on trade ac-
count (£31,464) were £3967 lighter.
Interest and rents (£18,066) turned in an
extra £1467. Including the rebate to
clients and provision for taxation, bad
debts and other contingencies, exes.
(£39,754) were pulled back £1422. The
net result was thus £IO7B lighter at
£9776, or 6.1 p.c. on capital as against
6.7, 5.1, 4, 6.7 and 5 p.c. back to 1933.
The div. was kept at 5 p.c., and the
£1776 that remained lifted the tangible,
lay-by to £63,339 —goodwill (£30,000) is
not treated as an asset herein.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1927. 1934. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £90,000 £159,959 £160,000 £160,000
Liabilities .. 01,282 91,033 156,399 151,20 G
Properties .. 91,719 91,730 87,133 80,400
Plant, etc. .. 1,341 0,862 4,708 4,909
Advances .. 47,044 219',441 280,294 289,106
Shares in other
cos 40,810 1,024 38 38
Cash, etc. . . 2,289 2,480 17,652 2,102
To reduce the amount coming to sundry
creditors (£70,903) by £63,292 and add
£BBI2 net to advances, the co. went to
its bankers for £50,710, gathered an extra
£7389 of loans (£29,593) and drew upon
cash, etc., for £15,550. The more or less
liquid surplus (£140,040) was £1545
lighter than at the previous balance. As
for the current term, the wool clip prom-
ises to be a bit lighter ; much will depend
upon wh,at happens to prices as the
season advances.
The sharemarket, doubtful whether
anything better than a 5 p.c. div. need
be looked for, prices the scrip, covered
by 275. lid. in net tangibles at 18s. 6d.
The return at 18s. 6d. is 5.3 p.c. on a
5 p.c. div. basis.
Rawang Tin Fields, Ltd.
Formed in 1929, this co. represents
an amalgamation of the old Rawang,
Serendah and Serendah South, all
operating in the Rawang and Serendah
Valleys, Selangor, F.M.S. The heavy
capitalisation and conservative control,
which had established a cash holding
of £204,176 at last balance, have so far
kept divs. within very moderate limits.
But with a third dredge, to dig 300,000
c.y. monthly to a depth of 50ft.,
scheduled to set in on the main area
in June, 1939, better is within sight.
Existing plant comprises two bucket
dredges, combined rated monthly
capacity 350,000 c.y., and an 80,000-c.y.-
monthly sluicing plant, all highly effi-
cient units.
Checkboring in 1937 revealed a
big disparity between original esti-
mates of yardage and values, available
ground at the end of the term being set
down at 75,000,000 c.y. averaging |lb.
t.o. A further 18 acres were acquired
last term. The wash is mainly good
dredging, with a little limestone, clay and
granitic intrusions in parts. Also, the co.
has a one-third interest in 55,000,000
c.y. of 0.571 b. ground, at present the
subject of surface-rights disputes, adjoin-
ing Pungah’s property at Bang Toe,
West Siam; Larut and Anglo-Oriental
are the other interested parties.
Last term both domestic quotas and
metal prices were better, but labor and
material charges were heavier, and the net
result was only £6085 higher, after pro-
viding £5915 less for depreciation:
Year
Ended r —Surplus— y—Dividends—^
Mar., Revenue. Exes.*' Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
f 182,836 86,616 96,220 1/1 -/9 65,700
1936 4 To reserve river deviation, £15,000.
[To reserve bucket-band, £4OOO.
f 170,921 90,413 80,508 -/10i ~/9 05,700
1937 4 To reserve river deviation, £4OOO.
I To reserve bucket-band. £7OOO.
iqqr 1 181,189 94,593 86,596 -/ll* ~/9 65,700
j To reserve bucket band, £SOOO.
* Includes depreciation: £23,628, 1936 ; £25,806,
1937 ; £19,891, 1938.
Dividends and interest contributed
£18,659 (up £7760) to the net result, and
£5984 profit was derived from the power-
plant, which is being enlarged to meet
requirements of the co. and its asso-
ciated ventures. Dividends were kept at
9d. per share, and £SOOO has been ear-
marked for bucket-line renewal, raising
that provision to £16,000. At present the
co. is engaged in the expensive task of
deviating the Serendah River.
The year’s production amounted to
1071 tons t. 0.:
( Dredging v Sluicing ~
1(107 Idas 1037 7 QQQ
Cub. yards.. 3,856,000 4,414,000 878,000 1,000,000
T. 0., tons.. 746.4 802.1 323.8 269,0
Av. yield.. 0.421 b. 0.401 b. 0.821 b. 0.61 b.
Costs, c.y. 1.95 d. 2145 d. 4.49 d. 3.99 d.
Net ore realisation, ton—
-1937, £137/5/3; 1938, £143/2/10.
Singapore average metallic tin. ton—
-1937, £212/15/2; 1938, £223/10/4.
The lift in working costs is partly
attributable to the low yardage
(2,789,000, averaging 0.491 b.) dug by No.
2 plant, owing to difficult ground, and
the inclusion of the bucket-line renewal
provision in unit costs for the first time.
No. 1 plant turned over 1,625,000 c.y. of
0.261 b. wash at a cost of 2.85 d. From all
plants average t.o. yield was 0.51 b. and


SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
j
QUALCAST”
Australian made
MOTOR
MOWER.
16in. cut,
o n d it
drives as
it cuts.
Price £34/13/-
In Seaport Capital Cities.
Australian made “Qualcast” hand mowers
have captured and now hold the Aus-
tralian market by their efficiency, dura-
bility and cheapness. History is repeat-
ing itself now in regard to the lGin.
“Qualcast” Australian made Motor Mower.
Write for particulars to any leading
Hardware Store or direct to the Manu-
facturers :
QUALCAST (AUST.) PTY., LTD.,
Sunshine Road, West JB’ootscray,
Melbourne, W. 12, Victoria.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel- and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies.
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *.
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals’
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O T’
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street]
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS—
William Adams & Company, Ltd. These tools are
fully illustrated and priced in our 1935 General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street. Sydney,
for your free copy.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab," Melbourne .
treatment cost 2.43 d. Since the close of
accounts the sluicing plant has been
removed to a position on the main area.
Total production for the four months to
the end of July was 307| tons t.o. from
1,631,000 c.y., an average of 0.421 b. The
co. is assessed at 1513 tons annually.
Capital is £876,003 in 1,752,007 10s.
shares, which the market values around
9s, At March 31 more or less liquids,
which will be required mainly to finance
the new dredge, figured at £265,003, and
there was £32,415 coming to outsiders.
Liquids exclude a 63,800 £1 shareholding
in Rawang Concessions, in at par.
Rawang Concessions, Ltd.
An offshoot of Rawang Tin, by whom
32 p.c. of the issued capital is held, this
co.’s leases embrace some 1284 acres,
of which 349 remain to be treated,
upstream of the parent co. at Rawang
(F.M.S.). Richest portion has been
worked out, but at March 31, 1937,
25,000,000 c.y., averaging 0.451 b. to.,
remained, including tailings, and the
Government has tentatively agreed to
deviation of the main trunk road and
river in order to bring the ground in-
volved into dredging reserves; £IO,OOO
was earmarked out of 1937 earnings to
cover the cost.
The wash is mainly free dredging, with
a little limestone, to treat the most diffi-
cult portions of which the board has just
installed a sluicing unit at a cost of
£3084. The dredge, recently modernised
and treating at the rate of 240,000 c.y.
monthly, is at present in very lean
ground, pending finalisation of road-
diversion details with the Government.
Thanks to transfer of quotas from
associated cos. and an assessment of 1017
tons t.o. annually, the div. flow was un-
interrupted by slump, lowest distribu-
tion being Is. a share in 1931. Last term
a record yardage was handled, recoveries
were a shade better and so were metal
prices, but profit was £852 lower, owing
to rising costs:
Year to f —Surplus— N ( —Dividends^,
March, Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. S'hare. Amt.
,q,r 1 £79,178 £37,002 £42,176 4/2 3/6 £35,000
(.New bucket-band written off, £6344.
1936 59,268 31,424 27,844 2/7 1/- 10,000
f 88,733 39,908 48,825 4/10 2/6 25,000
1937-jTo reserve bucket—band, £2OOO.
ITo reserve road deviation, £IO,OOO.
1938 } 86,739 38,766 47,973 4/9 4/- 40,000
( To reserve bucket-band, £3OOO.
Including depreciation: 1936, £7967; 1937,
£10,982 ; 1938, £10,761.
Dividends, however, were increased in
total to 4s. a share, the best yet, and
£3OOO was earmarked for replacement
of the bucket-line.
A feature of operations is the high
metal content of the oxide:—•
1936. 1937. 1938.
Cubic yards dug.. 2,103.000 2,852,000 2,904,000
T. 0., tons.. .. 359.2 595.8 ' 615.77
Average per c.y.,
pound .. .. 0.38' 0.46 0.47
Assay, p.c. .. 75.7 76.5 76.8
Working costs per
c.y 2.00 d. 2.03 d. 2.4 d.
Vet ore realisation,
ton .. .. £132/3/1 £135/12/10 £l4O/19/5
Singapore average
metallic tin, ton £213/14/4 £219/2/2 £224/11/2
quota release, p.c. 68.75 73,75
With a cash pile of £81,441 at March
31, thanks to liberal provision for depre-
ciation, the co. is obviously well equipped
to increase its life, nominally around
eight years at last year’s rate of digging,
by purchase of additional areas should
opportunity offer. Turnover for the four
months ended July was 853,000 c.y., and
production 79£ tons t. 0., or barely 0.211 b.
a yard, but the position is expected to
improve later in the year.
At balance day more or less liquids,
subject to final div. of £20,000, were
£86,576 in excess of liabilities. Sellers
ask 275. for the fully-paid £1 shares, of
which 200,000 are issued.
The main lead lode in New Broken
Hill Consolidated’s property, which ad-
joins Zinc Corp.’s holding on the south,
at the Barrier, is not expected to be
productive above 2250 ft. To reach this
depth with a separate shaft and open up
the ore-body would probably take five
years or more. Under the joint working
agreement with Zinc Corp., and pro-
vided nothing unexpected happens, the
co. expects to be in the ore-body and
to have some production (not large)
during the first half of 1940. The capi-
tal saving expected to result from this
agreement is estimated at £250,000. The
co. has already paid the Corp. £lOO,OOO
on account of its share of capital expen-
diture in connection with the scheme,
and more will be asked for soon. The
new main • (Freeman) shaft on Zinc
Corp.’s property, through which ore from
Consolidated’s deep levels will be hauled,
is completed to No. 11 level (1573 ft.),
and is expected to be equipped to No.
15 level (2120 ft.) by January next.
# * * *
Accounts of London-controlled Clutha
Gold Dredging for the first period of
production—ll months to March 31—
disclose net profit of £21,992, of which
£12,500 was disbursed in an initial 64
р. div. in February and £3099 is to
be written off preliminary exes. The co.
gave £45,000 in fully-paid 2s. shares for
an 184-mile lease along the Clutha River,
Otago (M.L.), estimated to contain not
less than 550,0000 z. gold. During the
last term a further 525 acres of flat
goldbearing land adjoining the river near
Alexandra were acquired for £lO,OOO,
payable by instalments. So far 243 bores
have been put down, and 30,000,000 c.y.
proved, estimated to be worth £850,000
with gold at £6 an ounce. Intensive drill-
ing is proceeding. The co. has 2,000,000
shares out, all fully paid to 2s. The
dredge, monthly capacity 120,000 c.y.,
has so far been in ground dug by old
dredges in the top section of the leases.
There was £46,874 in the cashbox at
balance day; liabilities then totalled
£16,166.
**r * *
Mineral Traders, Ltd., Adelaide,
which is taking mica from Hart’s
Range, Centralia, aims at selling 50 tons
of the stuff monthly. In its raw state
mica is worth from £250 to £720 a ton,
according to quality and size. Cutting
and grading are a difficult and expensive
business. Still, some of the Centralian
stuff is claimed to be equal to the world’s
best. No satisfactory material has yet
been found to take the place of mica
in the electrical industries, and its grow-
ing use in household electrical appliances,
radio sets, automobiles and in connec-
tion with armament programmes has
stimulated consumption during the last
few years. A feature of recent con-
sumption has been the demand for split-
tings for use in built-up mica products.
Apart from the U.S.A., which consumes
all the mica it produces, India is the
world’s chief source of supply.
* * * *
After writing off £3969 for deprecia-
tion, etc., Sandy Creek Gold Sluicing,
operating on the Bulolo, about eight
miles from Wau (New Guinea), cleared
£5689 net for the 12 months to April,
as against £5216 for the previous term.
Maiden interim distribution of 14d. per
share is to be supplemented by a final
of similar amount, making 10 p.c. for
the year and calling for £2061 more than
earned. A second sluicing unit was put
to work early in the year ; yardage treated
increased from 116,518 c.y. to 196,500
с. and unit working costs were re-
duced from Is. 7.8 d. to Is. 3.7 d. Re-
coveries, however, fell Is. a c.y. to 2s.
54d., though, on treatment of 52,156 c.y.,
there has been improvement to 3s. Bd.
since the closer of accounts, while costs
have shown little change. At an un-
stated figure an interest has been
acquired, apparently since the books
were ruled off, in a concern which in
turn has taken over the New Guinea
assets of Upper Watut Gold Alluvials.
The Watut co. went phut last year after
treating 149,000 c.y. for 13850 z. gold, a
recovery of 4.4 gr. per c.y., as against
prospectus estimates of 3s. Previously,
after testing the property, Bulolo Dredg-
ing had abandoned its option over
400,000 Watut shares at par (55.). At
balance date Sandy Creek’s current assets
totalled £5030 and indebtedness £2794.
* * * *
At Mount Morgan (Q.) production for
the year to June 30 was a record. It is
the first full financial year in which the
oxidised ore treatment plant has been
operating. During the twelvemonth,
383,700 tons of sulphide and 311,767
tons of oxidised ore were treated for an
estimated recovery of 58,031 fine ounces
of gold and 2287 tons of copper. In
the previous year the co. treated 322,310
tons ore for 35,284 fine ounces gold and
1807 tons copper. Several large share-
holders intend to nominate some new
directors at the annual meeting.
* * * *
Individual prospecting is giving way to
organised effort on the Cracow (Q.)
goldfield. The most important mine
here is Golden Plateau, where the shoots
are erratic below the 294 ft. level.
Neither No. 1 nor No. 3 shoot has yet
been located at 444 ft., but a new body of
payable ore has been found at 294 ft.
Though reserves of high-grade ore are
limited, possible reserves remain to be
determined. Of the outside mines, only
the Klondyke, Golden Mile and Rose’s
Pride are likely to disclose much in the
way of pay-ore.
* * *■ *
Geologist S. R. L. Shepherd, of the
Queensland Department of Mines, who
was on the Claudie River goldfield dur-
ing the last half of July, says new dis-
coveries have been made by Hall and
Tonker on an area adjoining the southern
boundary of the Passed Over, and by
R. Williams on an area about three-
quarters of a mile further south. Pros-
pecting has shown that the hematite
deposits east of Gordon’s reef are
irregular in occurrence both vertically
and horizontally. On Gordon’s Iron
Range, where the reef has been partly
stoped to a height of 80ft., further pros-
pecting is recommended to prove exten-
sion of the lode north and south. Not
much payable ore has been obtained
from the main opencut at Scrubby
Creek, and little mining work is in pro-
gress at Packer’s Creek. All the piles for
the 810 ft. jetty at Portland Roads have
been driven, so it should not be long
before regular service is available through
the port to the field.
* I* * *
Steady improvement in recoveries (last
weekly clean-up averaged 1.65 gr. per c.y.)
is recorded by Cullengoral Sluicing, work-
ing a low-grade gold property near Gul-
gong (N.S.W.), a few miles north-east of
the Wellington Alluvials outfit. The co.,
which is dredging, nof sluicing, turnover
being at the rate of 85,000 c.y. monthly,
is capitalised at £50,000 in fully-paid
4s. shares. Tested ground comprises
14,000,000 c.y.—B4- million estimated to
average 104 d. and 54 million Is. (gold at
£AB 10s.). The scrip has been up to 14s.
6d. this year ; latest price is around 11s.
* * * *
Glen Innes Dredging, N.L., a pup of
Granites Development, has commenced
production on its gold property at Glen
Elgin (N.S.W.), in the New England tin-
fields district and 32 miles north of Glen
Innes. Four clean-ups to Aug. 22 yielded
£1947 from 47,600 c.y. Comprising some
five miles along Nine-mile and Rocky
Creeks, the property, average depth 17ft.,
is mostly free-dredging, the overburden
comprising a friable granitic loam and
coarse sand. Payable ground is in
two areas (Webb’s and Lewis’s), separated
by Leeman’s Flat, which may or may not
be payable. Webb’s area, the upper, is
estimated to contain 14 million c.y. aver-
aging Is. 6d.; Lewis’s, the lower, 14 mil-
lion c.y. going Is. 3d. (gold at £AB 10s.
an ounce, tin at £A22O per ton). Nominal
capacity 60,000 c.y. monthly, the dredge
is Haven Dredging’s old plant, which
operated for a short time on the Shoal-
haven, southern N.S.W. Costs are ex-
pected to work out at 3d. per yard, and
total working profit at £150,000.
* * * *
With six weeks to go before its finan-
cial year ends on Sept. 30, Cocks
Eldorado, dredging on Reedy Creek
(Vic.), will be short of its 1937 yardage.
But in spite of this and lower prices for
tin, estimated value of recoveries for the
46 weeks to Aug. 19 was already up 48
p.c. on the total values for the 1937
term:
Gold, Tin, Estimated
Sept. 30, Yardage. Ounce. Tons. Value.
1937 .. 1,899,816 6484.6 114.6 £80,426
Aug. 19, ’3B* 1,648,060 9766.5 166.25 109,227
* 46 weeks.
Profits may be £90,000 for the current
term. Paid capital is £137,500 in 10s.
shares, quoted at 18s. in Melbourne.
* * * *
Wiluna’s working profit for July at
£A26,353 was £ll3O better than for June.
Working costs, excluding expenditure on
development and exploration (£15,236),
were roughly 21s. 7d. a ton. Two new
shoots were exposed during the month
in the northern extension of the main
eastern workings at the 1000 ft. level.
True length and width of No. 1 have
not yet been established, but boreholes
and a crosscut indicate average value
to be a little more than 4dwt. over a
width of 15ft. and a length of at least
500 ft. No. 2 has so far been proved
for a length of 278 ft., assaying 4.4dwt.
over Combined length of the
two shoots proved to date is therefore
778 ft. Below 1000 ft. other July ex-
posures were mostly of narrow width
and poor value.
* * * *
At Lady Shenton (W.A.) ore treatment,
which ceased in July in order to allow a
vigorous development campaign to be
undertaken at an estimated cost of £5500,
has been resumed. Plant is now running
on “good grade ore” from stopes and
from development. It was stated at the
time the development campaign was
started that it would, when completed,
place the mine well ahead of the mill, as
well as allow continuous treatment and
more economical working.
❖ $ Jjc $
Paringa’s new £BO,OOO gold-ore treat-
ment plant on the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile is in full operation. An initial
clean-up in June gave 945 fine ounces
from 5411 tons. Head value of 4703
tons treated in July was stated to be
about 5-4-dwt. per ton, but no extrac-
tion figures have been given yet. The co.
continues to report stoping of ore mostly
well above the value of that so far sent
to the mill. For instance, the average
of 1577 tons broken during July from
above the 400 ft. level is estimated at
7fdwt. over 184 ft., and that of 465 tons
stoped on the 200 ft. level at lOdwt. over
104 ft. For the seven months ended
March, the co. got a net return of £19,500
from the treatment of 8473 tons at the
South Kalgurli mill. Last estimate of
ore reserves was 220,575 tons averaging
s.6dwt. There is a lot of issued shares
(nearly 4,000,000) to spread dividends
over.
* * * *
J. S. Foxall, Westralia’s assistant State
mining engineer, says that so far the
appearance of Yellowdine Gold Areas’
latest option is pleasing, but that further
development is needed to determine
whether it has the makings of a mine.
Meanwhile whispers are heard in the by-
ways of the market about substantial
wealth in sight and the certainty of more
wealth being uncovered.
* * # *
During the first seven months of 1938
Westralian mines bossed by Claude de
Bernales produced gold valued at ap-
proximately three-quarters of a million
Aust. The bulk has come from Gt.
Boulder, and most of the balance from
Yellowdine. July’s contribution from
the group was worth £120,572. Gt.
Boulder was first past the post with
£83,117. Yellowdine came second with
£22,120, then Murchison Gold Develop-
ment £11,960 and Comet £3875.
* * * *
“O.B.”: On top of costs as they were
at June 30, Westralian goldmine owners
now have to find an additional basic wage
rise of Bs. 2d. per week, and from January
next they will have a contribute a further
ls. 6d. per week per man to the National
Insurance Fund. Also, it is considered
likely that the next cost-of-living adjust-
ment will raise the total increase in wage
cost to above 10s. a week by the "begin-
ning of 1939. Westralian goldmining
industry now employs 17,136 men, so
that actual and potential increases in
labor costs between June and January
look like involving the industry in
additional outgo running into thousands
a week.


SMOKE-OH!
“ ‘Medical Journal of Australia’ says that if
present birthrate trend persists Australia’s popu-
lation will be stationery by 1955.”
And then, what —blotted out?
•F *l* •i'
“Stole from Police Cell.”— “Sun” heading.
Isn’t that barred?
•J* *J> 4*
“Only a small fraction of the Australian
people are discourteous.” — Woman’s paper.
A vulgar fraction, of course.
•P *l*
“Friendship between man and woman should
end in marriage,” says a writer.
It does.
*!- ►!- *l*
“Sydney to-day saluted a new spring.”
— “Sun.”
That’s all right, but it took a Hitler to
spring a new salute.
* ►!« * *
“He took a long draught of the whisky, then
fiercely complained that it had been diluted.”
—SJiort story.
Evidently the flesh was swilling but the
spirit was weak.
"Did ’ee ever see the like of un, Tummas?"
According to most women there’s only
one thing wrong with the average hus-
band: He never does anything right.
•J* *i* ❖
“A well-bred Pekinese puppy costs thirty
shillings a week to keep.”— Breeders’ journal.
Apparently it’s not so much the
original cost as the pup-keep that matters.
A Tinny Escape.
“A golden blonde girl, aff., education, meet
refined gent. v. friendship.”
— “D.T.” agony advL
I had a girl like that. She had copper-
colored hair and a silvery voice, and
although a man of mettle I found it
hard to steel myself against her charms.
I hoped to weld her into a good wife,
too, but she began to chisel into my
brass, and that caused rows. We found
that we couldn’t zinc our differences.
Then with leaden heart I realised that if
we were riveted together she’d begin to
show a red-hot temper and either 'throw
iron at me or sue for antimony. So I
cast her off.
Peter p.
“All through spring and summer you'll need
a smart unlined coat.”— Fashion hint.
But it’s good to have a well-lined
pocket.
Black Outlook.
“Betting is rife in many of the gaols.”
—News item.
“Blimey!” Slim remarked. “This gaol
life is getting so tough that soon the
place won’t be worth patronisin’. A
man used to look forward to his Satur-
dees and Wednesdees, but now they’ll
be just like any other day.”
“What’s bitin’ yer now?” asked the
newcomer.
“Bill Dongem, who does the s.p.,
finished his stretch last night, and we
haven’t found another bloke to take his
place yet. Andy Swoggle the lifer’s
the only other bloke in the joint that’s
’oldin’, but he’s afraid he might get
pinched if he starts.”
W. P. T.
•F * "fr •i*
“Many men mend their own socks,” says a
women’s paper.
Their womenfolk don’t give a darn.
❖
“Philately should not be encouraged,” says a
writer.
Then stamp it out.
“Mussolini never travels on public bus or
tram.” —News item.
No tram or bus will do for Muss,
Though he’s no plutocratic toff.
No mere conductor his instructor —
Telling him where he gets off!
Leon.
* * * *
“Could any reader please tell me what are the
Seven Wonders of the World?”—“Wondering”
(City). —“Daily Telegraph.”
The National Insurance scheme ; daily
press foreign news ; how the people next
door do it on £5 a week ; will there be
war? what’ll win the third race? when
shall I get a rise? what can I put over
the wife to get away with the boys this
week-end?
4 1 4 1 4*
“Artist claims to be able to tell colors by
touch.”
We can tell when we feel blue our-
selves.
'I- -b 4* *l-
- Your Own Mechanic!
IX. — Tyreing Yourself Out.
If you haven’t a vulcanising outfit, cut
a circle of thin rubber (from an old pair
of gumboots will do) and smear it over
with melted glue. To prevent its curling
up—a natural tendency —while you are
busy cleaning the tube, plant a boot on
each side of it. This will keep it taut,
but by the time you are ready to slap it
on it will have stuck solidly to the soles
of the boots.
Take them off. Then, holding the
boots, soles up, between your compressed
knees get a grip on the patch with a
heavy pair of pliers and tug hard. The
patch on coming off will immediately
curl up again, glue side in. Your only
hope now is to smear more glue (for melt-
ing it always keep a primus stove handy
in the toolbox) on to the tube around
the puncture and roll the patch out on
to it.
This will mean that the outside of the
patch will also have glue on it, but this
can’t be helped. Now stand firmly on the
patched tube. After about half an hour
it should be set firmly to the tube. So,
also, will your boots be (that is if you’ve
put them on again). Remove them once
more and try prising the tube off with a
knife. If this is unsuccessful cut the
uppers off, leaving your boot-soles stick-
ing to the tube. After all, they will
strengthen it considerably. A light dust-
ing of French chalk (or, lacking this,
some of the wife’s face powder), and you
will be ready to put the tube and cover
back.
There are two methods—to inflate
the tube before putting the cover on or
to inflate it afterwards. The former is
favored by experts.
Blow the tube up to the capacity of
your lungs and slide it over the rim,
taking care to put the valve through the
hole. Now work one edge of the cover
“Report to me at headquarters, Cadet
Higgins!"
on to the rim, using an old knife (not
too sharp) as a lever. Now comes the
really hard part of the job—to get the
other edge of the cover on. It’s the last
six inches that gives the most bother.
Patently, the rim won’t give. Only one
thing remains : as the taut cover won’t
yield to leverage slit it where it is tight-
est and you should then be able to warp
it on.
A delicate touch is needed here, other-
wise too big a slit will mean that the
tyre will just flap around the rim.
Should you make this error, it can be
remedied slightly by putting two holes
through the slit ends, threading some
sisal lashing through them and drawing
them together in a neat lover’s-knot.
It now remains but to put the hand-
pump on to the tyre and bring it up to
the normal pressure. Slap the wheel on,
tighten up the nuts and you are set for
the road once again.
How far you progress after your
repairs are finished will depend entirely
on the condition of the road surface. If
it is particularly good you may even get
a few hundred yards, but at the first
pebble or pothole you go over there will
be a loud “pop,” followed by a tearing
sound, and your speed will decrease
markedly. As you stop the car and climb
out cursing there will be no need to
speculate as to the cause of the fresh
trouble. It can be only one thing: a
blowout caused by the tube you mended
becoming pinched by the cover edge.
Should there be no service station
within several miles it would be impru-
dent to run the car all that way on a
flat tyre, as it might take the nice bur-
nished look off the rim. The best thing
then would be to take the wheel off
again and, after throwing the mangled
inner tube away, fill the cover to capacity
with dry wheat, without a supply of
which you should never venture forth.
Having got the cover on again pour
water down the valve. This will cause
the grain to swell. Should the tyre tend
to sag (in hot weather the moisture
doesn’t last long in the wheat) you will
need to stop every few hundred yards
and add more water. A syringe is ideal
for forcing water down the valve.
And now a final hint.
Practically every owner-driver has
trouble at some time or other with a
slipping clutch, yet actually it is not
nearly so difficult to remedy as many
suppose. Obviously it must be grease
that causes the clutch to slip. The fussy
mechanic would want to take it to pieces
and wash it in kerosene, but this is not
necessary. Some favor ironing it off
with a hot iron and brown paper, but,
unless there is a power point handy, this
difficulties.
My own method, for which letters
patent have been taken out, I hereby
present gratis to Bulletin readers.
Take the floorboard out of the front
compartment. This will expose the
clutch housing. Simply fill this up with
boiling water. This will bring the
offending grease to the top, where it can
easily be skimmed off with a long-
handled spoon. The water can then be
drawn off with a garden spray. Inciden-
tally, there is no need to waste the
grease. After wringing the water from'
it, push it back in the clutch-thrust
greaser whence it came. By doing this,
your clutch-thrust grease will last in per-
petuity.
S. W. K.
Request.
“Some people who think they are suffer-
ing from serious ills are merely the victims
of imagination.”— Medical journal.
Dear Doctor, when I thought that I
Was full of dread disease,
You quickly gave my fears the lie
And set my soul at ease.
Well, having proved the direful ill
A fancy quite untrue,
Oh, please convince me that your bill
Is sheer delusion, too!
T. W. N.
Circumstances Alter Cases.
“You are the most truthful man we
ever met. Appallingly truthful! We did
not think that there was a man like you
in the world.”
That testimony to my worth, quite un-
solicited, I pass on proudly. When one
man said that about me, three other men
nodded approval.
It was in an insurance office.
I had told them that all my relatives
were dead. Dying was a family habit. My
father had died before I was born, and
practically all my near relatives had died
young after suffering from every disease
known to medical science. I myself had
enlarged liver, blood pressure, a weak
heart, Bright’s disease, alcoholism and
rheumatism.
“It is very good of you to be so frank,”
said the grey-haired man, brokenly. “We
are not used to it. People try to conceal
the things you have told us. But you
must understand that, with the knowledge
you have given us, it is almost impossible
to grant you a policy. If we did, the
premium would have to be very high.
Very high indeed. You see, your expec-
tation of life must be extremely short.”
“Inversely,” I remarked, “I suppose
that if I wanted to buy an annuity 1
would get it cheap, as I will probably
only live a few months to enjoy it?”
“Eh —what?” demanded all of them.
“Yes —of course! Yes.”
“Well,” I said, calmly, “it is really an
annuity I want to buy. If I can get, say,
two hundred a year, paid monthly, for
a hundred quid”
Considering the high opinions they had
expressed about my truthfulness the way
they threw me out of the office was dis-
graceful.
H. M.
Domestic Ties.
Maria had been nagging
me about my ties. She was
ashamed to be seen with me,
she said. I could throw
money away on drink and
tobacco —well, you know
how all that goes. So I went
and bought half a dozen.
How was I to know that
Maria wanted to go to the
pictures that night?
“Oh, you haven’t got the
money to take me! You
never have. But you can buy
yourself ties,” she said.
“Well, you’re always say-
ing”—
“That’s beside the point.
Buying yourself ties! I sup-
pose I can stop at home, be-
cause I’m so shabby that I’m
ashamed to be seen out.”
“I didn’t want the darned
ties. It was only because of
you”
“Huh! Because of me!
Do you think I’m blind? If
the truth’s known you’re try-
ing to smarten yourself up to
make an impression on that
new typist. As if a girl like
that is going to take notice
of an old goat like you!”
That was the start. By the
time Maria really warmed
to her subject I was keeping
another home.
Yes ; you’ve guessed it. Maria is going
to get that new dress on Friday, even if
it bankrupts me. It is the only way to
prove that I am not paying for the flat
of that new blonde typist and buying her
diamond necklaces.
Next week Maria will probably notice
the holes in my socks and suggest that,
instead of spending all my money on
drink and tobacco, etc.
But I intend to go on wearing my
present socks until they fall off.
HAMER.


n
w
m
Buying
in FOREIGN MARKETS
Wherever Australian business extends, the
National Bank provides a full range of
financial facilities. Its commercial Letters of
Credit for financing imports are readily
accepted, and its experience enables it to give
assistance to both import and export trade. If
you are buying or selling abroad, the Bank
invites you to discuss your problems with its
Foreign Departments at Head Office, in Mel-
bourne, or at any of its 430 Branches and
Offices spread through the various States.
When overseas, the same facilities are readily
available through its London Office and a
world-wide chain of Banking Agents.
THE NATIONAL BANK
. of Australasia Limited (.Incorporated in Victoria )
'5/16/38
Bradford Cotton.
At 425. 6d., cum Is. 3d. div.,
Bradford Cotton ords. return 6.1
p.c. on a 12| p.c. div. basis. Last
term 16.5 p.c. was earned on the
increased ord. capital, as against
22.8 p.c. in the preceding term.
But benefit of new plant should
shortly be felt. Finances are in
excellent shape.
INVESTIGATE
BEFORE
INVESTING
r/ *sr
*usr
v V/T rJ I **
•R(j
Obviously, this is the logical
procedure when your money,
no matter how much, is
involved.
Therefore, you owe it to
yourself to investigate im-
mediately an investment
considered by the world’s
leading financial experts to
be of the soundest.
Write for free Booklet
No. 1 to:
AUSTRALIAN
FIXED TRUSTS
PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Inflation Turned On
Stock Exchange behavior, rightly or
wrongly, is regarded as an indicator of
general welfare by many. But people
in Australia are now finding out
what a false guide American /Stock Ex-
change “tone” represented as to the
general level of Australian investment
prices. We have problems nearer home
much more important than Dow-Jones
share indexes. The wool sales which
opened on Monday, for instance.
Though world commodity prices, includ-
ing those for wool, are to some extent
governed by factors the same as those
regulating overseas share prices, and
Wall-street share quotations may some-
times be a more or less distorted re-
flection of general trade, conditions, it
is much better for Australians to have
an eye aimed directly at the markets
for commodities in which they are in-
terested. That is because the relation •
between Wall-street and Australia is very
indirect, while the connection between
Bradford and this country ha? an almost
direct bearing on our general welfare and
therefore on Stock Exchange quotations.
So it is also with wheat. Only in the
prices for our exports, and in imports
of fresh capital, is this sea-girt continent
affected by economic conditions over-
seas. Wall-street may be influenced by
Roosevelt or other internal U.S.A.
phenomena one way or the other, and
the effect on the Australian economy may
be nil. So far as the Stock Exchanges
are concerned, their mercurial behavior
is often as not misleading as to business
conditions in their country of situation ;
so how much more irrelevant must their
“pointers” be as regards other countries!
That Stock Exchange prices are fre-
quently wrong business indicators is illus-
trated by the fact that highest prices
nearly always precede sharp recessions.
That applies also to most speculative
markets, but particularly to ’Change
prices.
In the ultimate, shares are valued by
the yield they give. Whatever their price,
they have to be paying divs. before they
give any return, and before they pay divs.
business must be reasonably good. If
they give a too-good return and promise
to maintain profit-earning, they are soon
reappraised in the market’s estimation.
Over the years, therefore, well-established
industrial stocks receive their degrees
of approval in the market, and it is their
profit-earning capacity scrutinised in the
light of the. prevailing interest-rate level
that regulates prices over long periods.
Periodically “fashionable” and exotic
methods of valuation come into vogue.
But these freakish interludes are only for
the hard-boiled gambler—and for the
mug. Following Dow-Jones figures too
closely has been one such recent inter-
lude.
The position relating to Australian
economic prosperity still largely boils
down to one of export prices for our
primary products compared with internal
costs of production. As regards export
prices, war and war talk and business
conditions in Britain, the Continent, the
U.S.A. and elsewhere are of great in-
fluence, and the influence at the moment
is not favorable. A big wheat crop in
America has knocked prices endways, and
wool, though more secure, still isn’t show-
ing up brightly.
Within Australia there has been, un-
happily, a continuance of loading in-
dustry with increasing costs of produc-
tion. The movement has been aided and
abetted by the Government at Canberra,
and by some State bodies also. Hot-
air is being pumped into the economic
balloon, and a long-suffering public
which every so often has to choose be-
tween a poor Government or a bad one
picks the lesser of the evils and puts as
much of its earnings in the savings banks
as it can after paying increasing costs
and taxes out of its “increased” wages.
The present record deposits in savings
banks are looked at resentfully by many
with lend-and-spend ideas. But a people
which was caught horribly unprepared
eight years ago has learnt a bitter lesson,
and it is a credit to the foresight of such
people, mostly of small means, that they
are showing an effort to be independent
of “assistance” and doles if we drift into
an unfortunate position again.
The present economic outlook has
unsatisfactory features that cannot be
overlooked. On the other hand, we
have strength that we did not possess in
1929 mainly in the still-high buying
power of our depreciated pound. But
the tendency at present is to dissipate
that strength by inflation of costs and
prices. That a danger greater to our
welfare than any fall in external prices
would be a steep rise in costs and in-
ternal prices is an opinion expressed here
more than once. It is possible that
present low prices for wool and wheat
may, through giving us a sharp lesson
in realities, check the present inflationary
trend, and bring us as much good as
harm. Inflation, a form of financial
revolution and decay, strikes at every-
one and disorganises everything.
Every one of us should watch cost-pf-
living figures closely. Up to the present
we can honestly say that business “reces-
sion” in other countries has had much
to do with the present lower prices for
our exports, and that the consequent
drop in our external income is no fault
of ours, even if excessive imports are.
But internal inflation in wages, prices,
etc., would be the gravest kind of a
disaster. Avoided price-and-cost in-
flation must be.
“If the tendency toward rising costs
in the shipping trade continues un-
checked, it is probable that, in some
directions, freight rates will have to be
revised.” David Yorke Syme, of Mel-
bourne Steam, speaking. And by “re-
vision” he means “increase.” Rising
costs, rising prices: the danger-signs of
a financial willy-willy.
SfC % sj«
United Provisions has come to light
with an ord. div. of 3 p.c., payable Oct.
28. Previous ord. distributions were 2
p.c. p.a. in respect of both 1935 and
1936. Since enough was shown by the
operating cos. in 1937 to pay 1 p.c. on
ord. capital in U.P. after satisfying the
prefs., the accounts of U.P., closing on
September 30, may not necessarily show
subsidiary co.'s earnings of more than
2 p.c. on ord. capital, as 1 p.c. was in
hand on Sept. 30, 1937. However, earn-
ings apparently have been considerably
better for 1937-38, and the sharemarket
appears to be justified in raising quotes
for the ords. to Bs. 6d. On a 3 p.c.
div. basis, the net return is 7.5 p.c.
m * * *
The cut in the interim div. of Hole-
proof (Melbourne) was disappointing ;
8 p.c. p.a. went out, as against 10 p.c.
p.a. in 1937. Hopes had been held, on
this page and elsewhere, that the 1937
rate would be maintained in 1938 not-
withstanding that capital had been in-
creased. However, the directors seem
to be pursuing a conservative policy
that doesn’t fit in with market expec-
tations, and the ords. have fallen from
265. 6d. to 245. 6d. They return
£6 14s. 6d. per cent, on an 8 p.c. basis,
allowing for the div. accrued and pay-
able on Sept. 5.
* * * *
Though it has large coal interests,
Adelaide Steam derives little of its freight
earnings, which provide most of the
profits, from this source, and therefore
hasn’t a great deal to fear from a
threatened blackout on the northern
N.S.W. fields. With a fleet of nine
modern motor-vessels and 19 steamers,
the co. enjoys a big contract with the
C.S.R. for the carriage of sugar from
Queensland ports. An unchanged div.
of 7 p.c. is going out in respect of the
year just closed ; it contrasts with the
lift in Huddart Parker’s increased in-
terim div. declaration to 12 p.c. p.a.
* * * *
' As commercial production approaches,
Associated Pulp (Tas.) ords. keep at about
2s. 6d. above par. The co.’s prospects
look interesting, and there is undoubtedly
a full market for the aimed-at production
if the output is of the right quality and
price. The sponsors, able people in their
own lines, were confident. Production
by the co.’s pulp mill is being held up
owing to lack of electric power at Burnie,
and for a while paper output will be
from imported pulp. Paper made from
Australian woodpulp is not expected to
be on the market until early in ,1939.
* * * *
Australasian Paper ords. have dropped
sharply during the recent market set-
back. There are still “estate” shares on
offer, which makes recovery difficult, but
at 28s. 9d. most scrip going has been
taken. Interim div. this year was kept
at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a., and a final is
due in October. The subsidiary co.,
controlled jointly with Cumberland
Paper, is doing well in sales of brown
paper and cardboard made at its prin-
cipal Vic. and N.S.W. mills, and holding
co. scrip represents a well-buttressed in-
vestment. The strawboard mill at
Broadford is to be closed down,
principally because the large new board
mill at Botany (Sydney), which started
a couple of months ago, has now
taken up the. slack in output. How-
ever, Herbert Gepp, addressing citizens
of Broadford on Aug. 20, mentioned
cancellation of orders, and referred to
the projected manufacture of strawboard
with Government assistance in South
Aus. H. O. White, M.L.A., suggested
that “we would be facing another de-
pression.” About 200 Broadford people
are losing their jobs, and a general
depreciation in property and business
“goodwill” values is now expected.
Hard; but apparently manufacture in
Sydney is more economic. Still, Broad-
ford shouldn’t be overlooked if the Vic.
or the Federal Government is looking
for a place to start another industry.
* * * *
Commonwealth Rolling Mills Pty.,
controlled equally by Armco (Aust.)
Pty. and John Lysaght (Aust.), has just
been registered, though work on the
factory site at Port Kembla began in
January last. Production of steel sheets
for motor-car bodies, etc., is expected to
start in Jan., 1939.
* * * #
Paralysis scares and what not all in-
cluded, Myer Emporium, Melbourne, has
closed its year and maintained a 9 p.c.
distribution to ord. shareholders. At
30s. 6d,, allowing for the div. accrued,
return is 6.2 p.c., about the best offering
from well-established Australian retail
stocks.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:-
Yellow Cabs scrip sold at 9s. lid. Since
most market hopes regarding profits and divs.
have been realised, reaction has followed.
Carlton Brewery shares were strong at
655. 3d. Brewery scrip was in good demand
generally.
The sharemarket was still dwelling on
Emperor’s first div. announcement. The shares
were quiet at under 13s.
Lancefield shares were weak again at 4s.
6d. This mine has had a packet of troubles
with ore and labor.
Down to 28s. 9d. again and returning £5 1 Is.
per cent., Australasian Paper ords. looked
very attractive.


T h ese rollers
corrugate the flat
sheets to the exact
standard measure-
ment.
tz:
'i
LYSAGHT'S
Red Orb
Gal vani zed
Iron is made to
the most exact specifications, and
its extreme rigidity and resis-
tance to strain makes it ideal for
roofing purposes. Throughout
Australia, millions of sheets of
Red Orb, carrying Lysaght's
guarantee, are sold every year
to confident users sure of the
long life which is built into
every sheet.
FREE a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of
useful information for ironworkers, store-
keepers, and the man on the land. Write for
your copy to John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
Box 196 D.. G.P.0., Sydney.
tYSAGHT)
rogyp
AUSTRALIA
RED ORB
Galvanized Iron
for Roofing and
Walling.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
Dont imagine
petrols are
jr 77
, &
0
. . . and note the difference!
EXTRA POWER... EXTRA PICK-UP... EXTRA MILEAGE
(Only C.O.R Petrols contain BENZOL)
*L\ w 1
ĵ
SUPER PLUS ETHYL {coloured red)
Gives more power, faster pick-up.
Stops ‘pinking’ sweetens your en-
gine. The easiest starting motor spirit
in the world! Also contains benzol.
PLUS BENZOL (tinted blue)
Gives smoother running. The only
petrol-benzol blend and sold at the
standard grade price. Assures easy
starting and increased mileage at no
extra cost.
BRITIS H-AUSTR ALI AN PETROLS
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo
Ltd,), Incorporated in Victoria with Branches at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
■Iranian Oil Co.
C132/27/SP
“This place is 'underd ’ear behind the limes , Mawther.
They ought t' put in skiproad."
The Commonwealth Statistician has
reckoned food, rent, clothing and
miscellaneous living costs for 1928-29
as representing 1000 in one of his
indexes of economic figures. In terms
of the same Australian £ s. d. the index
dropped to an average of 794 for both
1932-33 and 1933-34. In 1934-35 the
index lifted to 807, in ’35-36 to 823, in
’36-37 to 846, and in ’37-38 to 868.
The lift over four years has been an
average of 74 points in the index. Taking
quarterly figures instead of yearly, the
rise over the past 12 months has been
25 points. Since the June quarter of
1937 the Federal metropolitan basic-wage
average for six States lifted from 70s.
to 775. Increased living costs have partly
defeated the 7s. rise already, and it
should be remembered that the pace was
set by the Reddaway “prosperity” load-
ing of 3s. a week tacked on to the awards
—the 3s. was really a bonus, not based
on cost of living, and the idea (apart
from the extra benefit which it was
hoped the employee would get) was to
“damp down a boom.” Apparently
neither aim has been fully achieved.
The boom in costs still goes on, and
trouble is waiting round the corner if it
continues. But stopping it isn’t outside
the bounds of possibilities if all realise
the danger.
* ❖ * *
Strikes and other industrial luxuries
are being indulged in at the moment.
Irrespective of who is to blame, such
things shouldn’t happen in a country so
elaborately equipped as Australia with
Arbitration Courts and wage-regulating
machinery. Like any kind of a war, in-
dustrial wars rarely benefit anyone in the
long run, and they weaken the national
economic position. Perhaps young coun-
tries, like young people, learn their les-
sons only by experience; but one would
think that the depression and the inci-
dents extending over a long period that
led up to it would have been a lesson
bitter enough to satisfy anyone of this
generation. Sometimes in Australia we
see a raw sort of intolerance, or perhaps
just misunderstanding, between classes
which doesn’t do us any good. But for
our common benefit there should be
more “getting together” in Australia. The
trouble is that most of the mouthpieces
of each section of our community show
so little regard for the other sections.
They are nearly always “militant” types ;
and between the pulling and tugging that
takes place among them it is the general
welfare that suffers.
* * * *
Dunlop Perdriau’s net profit of
£414,596 for the year to June 30 (up
£4835) represents 8.6 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal, as against 8.4 p.c. in the preceding
term. The sharemarket was pleased,
the scrip firming about 6d., to 225. sd’
Div. is unchanged at 7 p.c.
* * * #
Davies, Coop and Co., the Victorian
manufacturer of denims, cotton-tweeds
men’s mercery and knitwear, etc has
shown £58,024 of net profit for the
year ended June 30,
an increase of
£22,126 over the
preceding year’s re-
sult, and represent-
ing 17.5 p.c. on aver-
age ord. capital,
against 9.9 p.c. Ord.
div. lifts from 6 p.c.
to 1\ p.c., and nearly
£20,000 of profit re-
mains. An ord.
bonus issue of one
for five is now to be
made; it will call
for £66,000. Pref.
shareholders (repre-
senting £lOO,OOO at
6 p.c.) also figure in
the news; in order
to provide for ex-
pansion in the cot-
ton piecegoods de-
partment, a new
pref. issue, one for
two, is to be offered.
As the existing prefs.
are now quoted at
245., the new issue is
a worth-while bonus.
* *
Castlemaine Per-
kins 12s. 6d. shares,
often chosen on this
page as an invest-
ment worth atten-
tion (especially when
the scrip was down
to 225. 6d. recently),
sold at 245. last week,
to return 4.2 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Accounts are due
shortly, and there may be more than 8
p.c. for shareholders. However, even on
an immediate 8 p.c. basis the price isn’t
unduly high.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Policy Once Atrocity Now
[Written by Marcus Samuel, M.P., the article on
aerial bombing here condensed first appeared in
Wandsworth “Borough News,” from which it has been
reprinted as a broadsheet. In general it points to one
reason why British policy is often called hypocritical in
Continental and other countries.]
A wave of horror has swept over Great Britain
at the recurrent news that civilians have lost their lives
in the bombing of “open” Spanish towns. The in-
dignant finger of denunciation has been pointed by
people whose memory of the Great War is dim at
those whom they judge responsible for such
inhumanity. Almost the whole nation now experi-
ences a genuine aversion to the killing of non-com-
batants in war-time. Moralising and recriminating
on this aversion is a luxury which a country at peace
can afford.
Spain herself could afford that luxury in other
times. It is a little ironical to read of efforts being
made by “His Majesty the King of Spain... .with the
object of getting some check placed upon the bomb-
ing of independent towns” (The War in the Air).
Those efforts were not addressed to the Barcelona or
Burgos Governments, nor was the year 1938: the
year was 1918, and King Alfonso’s representations were,
made to Germany and Britain!
The then Minister of Munitions, Mr. Winston
Churchill, wrote in a paper dated October 21, 1917:
“Our air offensive should consistently be directed
at striking at the bases and communications upon
whose structure the fighting power of his [the enemy’s]
armies and his fleets of the sea and of the air depends.
Any injury which comes to the civil population from
this process of attack must be regarded as incidental
and inevitable.”
Precious little sympathy would meet anyone who
dared to assert that the loss of civilian life in Gov-
ernment Spain was “incidental and inevitable” to
General Franco’s operations.
It has, however, been argued that the bombing
of civil populations in Spam has been not accidental,
but for the deliberate purpose of “terrorisation.” This
may or may not be true, though it is a question that
can only be answered with assurance from positive
knowledge of the intentions of those responsible. The
loss of civilian life at Granollers may very well have
been an “incidental and inevitable” result of an attack
upon proper military objectives. Granollers is not a
town inhabited only by women and children. It con-
tains an electrical station, three war-material factories,
an airplane assembly plant and, quite adjacent, an
aerodrome. In addition it happens to be the princi-
pal road and railway junction between Barcelona and
the border of France and Spain. In these circum-
stances, it could hardly claim immunity from attack
during war. If Britain were in the same position as
General Franco, or if the Barcelona Government were,
the same objective would have to be attacked.
Assume the worst, however ; assume that “terrori-
sation” was the motive. Wherein does this differ
from the declared British policy during the Great
War, set out in a memorandum on Bombing Opera-
tions forwarded by the Chief of the Imperial General
Staff, War Office, to General Sir Henry Wilson, British
Military Representative, Supreme War Council, on
January 17, 1918:
“The policy intended to be followed is to attack
the important German towns systematically, having re-
gard to weather conditions and the defensive arrange-
ments of the enemy. It is intended to concentrate on
one town for successive days and then to pass on to
several other towns, returning to the first town until
the target is thoroughly destroyed, or at any rate until
the morale of the workmen is so shaken that output
is seriously interfered with.
“Long-distance bombing will produce its maxi-
mum moral effect only if the visits are constantly re-
peated at short intervals, so as to produce in each area
bombed a sustained anxiety. It is this recurrent bomb-
ing, as opposed to isolated and spasmodic attacks,
which interrupts industrial production and undermines
public confidence.”
During the Great War, an Inter-Allied Air Force
was discussed between Britain and France, and even-
tually agreement was reached as to its functions, the
terms of which were then transmitted to the American
and Italian Governments for approval. The objects
of such a force were succinctly described in the Agree-
ment, and also in a memorandum sent by Marshal
Foch to M. Clemenceau on September 13, 1918, as
being: to carry war into Germany by attacking her
Industry (munition work), Commerce (economic
crisis). Population (demoralisation). On the follow-
ing day (September 14) Marshal Foch framed a
Memorandum, in which he said:
“The Bombing Air Service can, however, in
quiet periods, act on the morale of Jhe enemy people
or against enemy industrial establishments, which is
its secondary function.”
The shaking of morale, the production of the
maximum moral effect through sustained anxiety, the
undermining of public confidence —what are these but
euphemisms for “terrorisation”?
Although two wrongs do not make a right, they
disentitle either of the parties responsible for them
from sitting in judgment on the other.
Bishops’ Statement on War.
[The statement here given appears worth putting on
record in full, both because of the high ecclesiastical
standing of its signatories and the extraordinary nature
of some of their conclusions, including the principal
one printed in the. text in italic type, the implications of
which should have special interest in defence-dependent
countries like Australia and Maoriland. Signatories
were the Archbishop of York, the Bishops of Bath and
Wells, Bristol, Carlisle, Chelmsford, Derby, Dover, Lich-
field, St. Asaph, Southwark, Southwell, the Deans of
Chichester and Exeter, the Provost of Wakefield and
the rector of Birmingham.]
We who sign this statement represent a great
multitude who have been rendered anxious about the
moral basis of foreign policy and rearmament as a
result of the recent trend of events. It is to many
people far less evident than it was three years ago on
what moral principles foreign policy should be based,
and in what conditions it may be justifiable to have
recourse to armed force.
We are persuaded that the deterioration in this
sphere, which is universally acknowledged, is due to
the failure to stand by principles which they professed
on the part of the States members of the League of
Nations at various critical points ; we mention two —
the failure to take any kind of effectual action on the
Lytton Report after the invasion of Manchuria, and
the holding-up of sanctions in the case of Abyssinia at
the point where they might have begun to be effec-
tive ; in both cases our own country had a large
measure of responsibility.
At present we are confronted with situations in
China and in Spain which give rise to grave mis-
givings, and all are aware that similar situations may
arise at any time in Central Europe.
We desire, therefore, to affirm that the supreme
goal of foreign policy should be the establishment and
maintenance of international law. It seems to be
assumed that our country would resort to war in
self-defence, which is generally understood to include
defence of the territorial integrity of the British
Empire; from that we do not dissent, though we
should wish the decision whether a casus belli exists
to rest with an impartial authority, unless a territorial
aggression has actually taken place.
' But we wish to affirm with all possible emphasis
that there is clearer moral justification for the use
of armed force in defence of international law than
for a war of the old type in defence of territorial
possessions or economic interests. And we are far
from satisfied that this order of moral priority is
universally accepted by our fellow-citizens or by the
Government.
Several examples might be given of what we
mean. The continued wars in China and Spain,
accompanied, as they are, by the most appalling suffer-
ing of the civilian population, including women and
children, constitute clear breaches of both law and
morality. Perhaps the clearest instance of a single
factor to which both national interests and inter-
national law are applicable is the bombing of British
ships in Spanish harbors. Those ships are acting law-
fully, and the attacks on them are unlawful. Not so
much in defence of British interests as in defence of
law, we hold that the Government should take effec-
tual action to check these outrages and face consider-
able risk with that object. We have no competence
to suggest how this should be done, but are encour-
aged by the success of the Nyon Agreement to believe
that the difficulties are not insuperable, and that a
firm stand for moral principle would not necessarily
involve war.
There is a real moral case for a repudiation of
the use of armed force altogether; but our country
has not been persuaded that it is sound. There is no
moral case for building and maintaining armaments
without clear moral principles to direct their use. We
are anxious lest the recent trend of events should
develop into a drift-away from all moral principles
and result in an acceptance of sheer expediency as
the guide of our action.
We recognise the paramount obligation of avoid-
ing general war, if that can be done without gross
betrayal of principle ; but we contend that an even
greater evil is involved in international anarchy, which
would, moreover, almost inevitably lead to general war.
We desire, therefore, to reiterate our conviction
that the maintenance of international law must, on
moral grounds, take precedence of any national in-
terests in the direction of foreign policy, and should
be its supreme goal.
Other points follow from this, including revision
of the existing international law and the securing of
fair access to raw materials. But, of all claims, the
authority of international law stands first.
“What Is International Law?”
[ln the letter here condensed from the “Times,”
W. R. Bisschop, leading barrister, Standing Counsel to
the Dutch Legation, etc., submits a poser for the
, bishops—whether or not they could define that “inter-
national law” a war over which would to them be
preferable to a war over possessions.]
The statement issued by the Archbishop of York
and other leaders of the Church of England is a
bewildering document. If I am right the purport of
it is that war in defence of international law is justified.
I am afraid that it would be difficult for the sig-
natories of the statement to define what is understood
by the international law in favor of which they want
the worldly knights to don their armor and come to
the rescue.
Would not it be more consistent with their faith
if war —of whatever origin—were stigmatised by the
leaders of the Church as an excuse in satisfaction of
human passions which we teach our children to con-
quer and subdue; and that by the methods now
adopted and evidently accepted and universally recog-
nised war disintegrates into wholesale murder and
unjustifiable slaughter of the innocent who cannot
retaliate and who by their silent submission to unmiti-
gated suffering for their country’s sake should rank
in Christian religion as the real victors of their tor-
mentors and executioners?
It is impossible, even by the wildest flight of
imagination, to bring such warfare within the four
corners of the Gospel which the bishops every day and
on Sundays uphold as the touchstone of human con-
duct towards their fellow-creatures.
A Statesman on a Leash.
[Quite a lot of people have been misled by the
apparently forthright pronouncements of leading U.S.A
statesmen on foreign affairs. Some —Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” leader-writers them have even
inferred that Uncle Sam was straining at the leash to
lead in an attack on Japan and any other “aggressor
countries” in sight. The kind of leash U.S.A. statesmen
are held by is described by the writer of this (condensed)
London “Times” portrait of Mr. Cordell Hull, whose
pronouncements on dictators and the like figure in cables
more freely than statements by the President himself.]
By general consent one of the outstanding suc-
cesses of the Roosevelt Administration, Mr. Cordell
Hull is essentially a Wilsonian Democrat in his out-
look on foreign affairs.
Woodrow Wilson once said that the Bible con-
tains the fixed and eternal standard for the conduct
of nations as well as of men. Mr. Hull does not use
this language ; for the Bible is less fashionable than
it was, even in his home State of Tennessee. But he
clings firmly to the idea that the problems of inter-
national politics are fundamentally problems of human
behavior. The one thing needful is that nations
should learn to treat one another in the same decent,
kindly, helpful way in which decent Americans treat
one another. Mr. Hull scores by the simplicity and
directness of his appeal. It is fitting that an American
Secretary of State should speak as a plain man to the
wily diplomats and truculent dictators of Europe.
The central point of Mr. Hull’s programme is his
belief in “the essential relation between amicable
political international relations and amicable eco-
nomic international relations.” After all, the third of
Wilson’s Fourteen Points (and the first to be for-
gotten) demanded “the removal, so far as possible, of
all economic barriers.”
So far, however, the promise of Mr. Hull’s policy
is more impressive than its performance. Of the 15
countries with which economic agreements have been
concluded, only Canada, France and Brazil are of first-
rate importance. Only one in eight articles covered by
the tariff has been touched by reductions. The
British agreement, still poised between to be and not
to be, is the test case. If a real agreement is con-
cluded, the Hull policy will have been a brilliant suc-
cess. If there is no agreement, or a purely formal
agreement to cover up a failure, the Hull policy will
slip quietly into oblivion. The blame will be dis-
tributed between the British and American interests
which are obstructing the path. Nobody will blame
Mr. Hull, whose pertinacity and singleness of purpose
place him beyond criticism.
In discharging the political functions of his office,
Mr. Hull holds his course with the same steady dig-
nity. His task is harder here than in the economic
field ; for the policy which he must pursue is one of
The Flag Was British.
Difficulties over the plan for withdrawal of
foreign troops from Spain—Franco insisting on the
pre-granting of belligerent rights—brings the Spanish
civil war once more into the headlines in the daily
press seesaw of “sensations,” eclipsing, at time of
writing, Russo-Japanese clashes and even the affair
of the Czechs.
Therefore a fresh outburst can be expected of
protest against bombings and the like in Spain, of
the kind effectively examined by .Marcus Samuel,
M.P., in tlie article on this page, “Policy Once—
Atrocity Now.” Meanwhile, such items as this from
Dondon “Daily Express” (9/8/’38) on the bombing
of yet another “British” ship by Franco remain un-
reported in cables: —
Lake Lugano, the latest British-registered ship
to be bombed by Franco, is owned by a com-
pany registered by a Swiss, Mr. Charles Strubin.
He has an office in Creechurch-lane, Leaden-
hall-street, E.C., and it is decorated with the
flags of five nations under which his ships sail.
The majority of the ships with which he trades
to Spain sail under the British flag. The Union
Jack way painted on both sides of the Lake
Lugano, on its hatches, and on top of the wheel-
house.
Mr. Strubin said: “1 will not be intimidated by
Franco’s ruthless methods. I have four other ships
running to Spain. They will not be withdrawn.
Representations will be made to the British
Foreign Office. I am a Swiss, but it is no good
appealing to the Swiss Government.”
Mr. Strubin described his company as “British.”
Yes, he had been living in Britain for 20 years. No,
he was not naturalised. Yes, his sympathies
were with the Spanish Government.
With this on top of the bombing of Greek-owned
“British” ships it is not surprising that “Another
‘British’ Ship Bombed” has become a standing joke
in Fleet-street. As reported in Australian press
cables (9/8/’38) the story of the sinking of this
“British” ship ended on a sob: “There is nothing
worth saving except perhaps the Red Ensign, which
floats unconsumed from the stern.”


ifcSPt
ABBEY COSSACKS
808
Strong, long-wearing and comfortable, three essentials which ensure satis-
faction in every product which Abbey produces. Let your Work Boots
be Abbey Cossacks and be satisfied. Black and Brown, full and half
sizes 27/6
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
ĵ
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS , SYDNEY/'
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS*
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
sir wm. Vicars, c.b e.; orwell Phillips.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES
throughout New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
indeterminate objectives and impressive inactivity. But
in a world where so many things cry out to be put
right, Mr. Hull is the ideal representative to proclaim
American standards of fair dealing and to voice
American indignation when these standards are too
flagrantly violated. It is commonly believed that
Mr. Hull himself would like to go a good deal further
in defending those standards than public opinion will
allow. But this, too, helps rather than hinders his
popularity. It is not a bad thing for the official spokes-
man of the United States to be visibly straining at the
leash—provided one has made sure in advance that
the leash will stand the strain.
And this is the underlying weakness of Mr. Hull’s
position. The leash will and must stand the strain.
When the tension becomes too great the strain must
be relaxed. This was particularly conspicuous in the
Far Eastern crisis last autumn. When the Panay inci-
dent strained tension to within what seemed measur-
able distance of breaking-point, officials of the State
Department began deliberately to “play down” the
crisis in American-Japanese relations ; and the result
of their efforts has been traceable in the press ever
since. The horrors of the Japanese sack of Nanking
last December have been published and are known
to those who want the facts. But the massacre and
rape of thousands of defenceless Chinese have excited
less comment in the daily press than the expulsion of
Jews or the imprisonment of pastors in Germany. In
Europe the leash will not break. In China, which has
a far stronger hold on the American imagination, the
strain must be much more carefully watched and
moderated.
In South America other considerations arise. To
take a single example, everyone who wants to know
knows that Brazil is under a strict dictatorship, and
that the way of a dictator is no gentler at Rio de
Janeiro than at Berlin or Rome. It might be difficult
to discover any ethical reason why Herr Hitler and
Signor Mussolini should be addressed in terms of
moral disapproval and President Vargas in the honey-
tongued tones of a good neighbor. But Mr. Hull, in
perfect sincerity, expresses in each case the instinctive
reaction of the plain man. The man who is not so
plain, and who understands why the indignation lav-
ished on Europe would be untimely in Brazil, keeps
his mouth shut.
But the simple appeal of Mr. Hull’s public utter-
ance should not obscure his fund of native shrewd-
ness. Few statesmen of his prominence can boast his
record of five exacting years of office without a single
false step. It is difficult to imagine anyone more sue-
cessful in the delicate task of satisfying his country-
men without compromising them.
» n c .
Lurope S Uanger opot.
[Further aspects of the problem besetting Czecho-
Slovakia are brought under the spotlight in this digest
from a “Nineteenth Century” article by David Stephens.]
It was clear from the first that the main problem
of the new State would be the German problem, but
it was thought that in a world “made safe for democ-
racy” there would be no more national problems in
the old sense. Inside Czechoslovakia real democracy
would satisfy every national aspiration. National
differences would sink into the background.
The Czechs and Slovaks, by whose joint eftorts
the new State had been brought into being, and who
had therefore some right to the title of Staatsvolk
(sovereign people), made up between them barely two-
thirds ol the whole population. The remaining third
consisted chiefly of dissident minorities, like the Ger-
mans, who did not wish to be included in Czecho-
slovakia at all and refused to recognise the State.
The Czechs and Slovaks felt it was their State,
for which they had risked life and limb in the full
knowledge of what the future held for them if the
Allies, for whom they were fighting, were beaten.
They accordingly set about organising it with energy
and enthusiasm. The Germans, on the other hand,
who had lost everything by the war and had been
degraded from the position of a privileged ruling'*
people to that of an unprivileged minority, were
, ii j- • „i- „ i P -pi .
naturally disinclined to co-operate. That may have
been inevitable but it was certainly most unfortunate,
as it lost the Germans extra ground at the start which
they have never since made up. In a few years the
State service, down to the last ganger on the State
railways, was predominantly Czech. To-day one ot
the chief complaints of the Sudeten Germans is that
they have not their due proportion of officials in the
State service. There is no denying that disparity,
but it is not wholly the fault of the Czechs. The atti-
tude of the Germans themselves in the early years
of the Republic is at least partly responsible.
For seven years the Germans remained aloof,
Then in 1926, just as in Europe as a whole Germany
was beginning to come to terms with her late enemies,
so in Czechoslovakia Sudeten Germans began to come
to terms with Czechs. Two German parties abandoned
their attitude of non-co-operation and entered the
Government, each receiving one Minister,
Unfortunately little progress was made towards
the goal of equality between Germans and Czechs
before the economic crisis arrived in 1929. The effects
of the world depression were severe all over Czecho-
Slovakia, but in the German districts of North
Bohemia, which before the war had been the work-
shop of the Habsburg Empire and since the war had
been forced by the contraction of the home market to
seek markets abroad, they were catastrophic. North
Bohemia quickly became an industrial graveyard,
Unemployment figures rose far more rapidly in the
German than in the Czech areas. The unequal inci-
dence of the effects of the depression greatly upset
the Sudeten Germans, who passionately believed that
more might have been done to help them in their hour
of need, that the Czechs were deliberately taking ad-
vantage of their distress to turn the screw against
them, to capture or ruin their industry and generally
to further the Czech national cause at the expense ot
a defenceless minority.
Perhaps there was some truth in these grievances,
but, given the break-up of the Habsburg monarchy
and the fatal growth of economic nationalism, tariff
walls and autarchy, nothing could have saved the
industrial districts of North Bohemia when the depres-
sion came. There may have been discrimination, too,
but, even granting that the Czechs would have been
wise to do less for themselves and more for the Ger-
mans, the root of the trouble was far beyond the
control of the Czechs.
. The effects of the depression were still operating
with full severity in Czechoslovakia when Hitler seized
power in Germany. As the gap between Germany
and Western Europe widened, so the domestic rift
between Czechs and Sudeten Germans became deeper,
Once pressure from without had begun, the Czechs
could not make substantial concessions to the Sudeten
Germans without weakening their external position
vis-a-vis Germany. How could they take a Nazi-
minded German population into partnership? It was
beside the point to argue that it would have been less
Nazi-minded if appropriate concessions had been made
earlier. That might equally well have been said of
the Western Powers and Germany. If the Czechs
now took Henlein into their Cabinet, they said, they
would never be able to hold a Cabinet meeting. So
arose a vicious circle of mutual distrust; the Czechs
savinn “No rnnressinns until we have nrnnf nf vnur
saying, No concessions until we nave proot Ot your
loyalty ; the Germans answering, How can we be
loyal to a State that does not gives us a square deal?”
Such an atmosphere was anything but propitious
f or the solution of a problem towards which no legal
prescriptions were of much value if goodwill were
absent. The problem is to devise a middle course
that will preserve the historic unity of the lands of
the Bohemian Crown and enable Sudeten Germans
ant ] Czechs to go on living together in the country
t hat they have shared for the last thousand years,
At present there is a great gulf fixed between the
maximum that the Czechs are prepared to concede
anc j the minimum that would satisfy the .Sudeten
Germans. But there remains a large body of moderate
opinion which might still be won, not for a Czecho-
Slovak national State, but for a multi-national Czecho-
Slovakia in which the Germans would be real partners,
xhe fundamental weakness of Czech policy in the past
]ies in the failure to win the rank and file of the
Sudeten Germans for the Czechoslovak idea.
AC • . l r*
Soviet general Lscapes.
[When a Soviet general crossed over to the Japanese
in Manchukuo last June the incident was reported in
cables m a manner which more than hinted that it was
to taken w jth a touch of salt. Both general and his
story, however, are still accepted in Japan as authentic
enough, as is indicated in this (condensed) article by
London “Times” Tokio correspondent, 9/8/ 38.]
Nothing has done more to calm Japanese anxiety
about the Soviet menace than the reported voluntary
surrender on June 13 to Manchukuo frontier guards
of Major-General Lyuchikov, Soviet Commissioner of
the Interior in the Far East. The Japanese have been
impressed by the fact that such a high officer
should deliberately surrender himself into foreign
and traditionally enemy hands. “We have nothing to
fear,” a high military officer told me, “from a nation
whose leaders go over to the enemy, whatever the
reason.”
Soon after his arrest General Lyuchikov made
personally a statement to the foreign press.
“I received notice,” his statement read, “that I
should be summoned soon to a post in Moscow.
Shortly after, Stazevitch, secretary of the Far Eastern
Communist party, received a telegram summoning
him to Moscow. By that time, Grekonuravov, Chair-
man of the Soviet Executive Committee of the Far
East, had been called to Moscow and placed under
arrest. The recall of an official to Moscow neans
arrest and execution these days. I quickly sensed
my peril. Thus I made up my mind to escape, and I
succeeded by pretending to go on an inspection tour
of the border region.”
He also made arrangements for his wife, who
was then in Moscow, to escape into “some European
country.” His statement goes on:
“I had come to realise that Leninism is no longer
the fundamental policy of the Communist party in
the Soviet Union. This conviction began to dawn on
me at the time of the Kirov assassination. I was then
in Leningrad and participated personally in the
investigation of the case. I was connected with the
terrorist headquarters case at Leningrad early in 1935,
the assassination plot against Stalin at the Kremlin
in 1935, and the Trotsky-Zinoviev parallel head-
quarters case of August, 1936. With full responsibility
for what I say before world opinion, I declare that
these alleged conspiracies have no ground in reality,
but were entirely concocted by the Kremlin leaders.
Zinoviev, Kamenev, Tomsky, Rykov, Bukharin and
many others who were killed as ‘enemies of the
people’ were only enemies of the policies of Stalin.
“Their weakness lay in the fact that, instead of
calling on the discontented elements in the Com-
munist party in order to wage decisive warfare with
the Stalin regime and organise the masses against it,
they debated the matter among themselves within a
narrow confine. Consequently they had no outside
support whatever. How is it that such seasoned
political leaders testify to such unbelievable lies with
such determination? The question is very easy to
answer. When a political leader is arrested, he is sub-
jected to such torture at Lubianka prison as to make
him confess to any statement the authorities see fit
to put in his mouth.”
This last statement is corroborated by the alleged
text of a letter written by Lieutenant-General A. V.
Lapin, Commander of the Far Eastern Air Force,
who killed himself in prison after being arrested in
the Stalin purge. It reads in part:
“Under torture, I falsely testified to matters of
which I know nothing, and under the constant menace
of new tortures 1 affirmed everything imputed to
me.... 1 am not a counter-revolutionary, and have
had no connection with such elements whatever.”
General Lyuchikov’s statement goes on to allege
that Stalin has consistently tried to divert public
attention from the failure of his domestic policy by
concentrating on war preparations, and that many
of the charges of espionage against prominent Soviet
citizens have been made with the double purpose of
getting rid of a political rival and arousing national
sentiment against the alleged machinations of foreign
Powers. The statement continues:
“Most of the commanders of the military dis-
tricts, army corps, and divisions have been arrested.
The same is true of the Commissariat of the Interior.
One may be sure that such methods on the part of
the Stalin regime are affecting the psychology of the
masses most acutely. Discontent is steadily rising
despite the unheard-of persecution and tortures.”
The effect of Lyuchikov’s statement on the Japa-
nese public has been tremendous. The general public
takes it as gospel and is profoundly impressed. The
average comment one hears among ordinary people
is: “We can push on vigorously with the China war
without worrying about those people.” That is, of
course, what the new Government, and particularly the
new directors at the War Office, think. It is a happy
concordance of opinion. Meanwhile, there are rumors
that some 300 senior Soviet officers have since taken
the path of General Lyuchikov across the Man-
chukuo border.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Spring racing began in earnest at War-
wick Farm on Saturday, and the A.J.C.
had real spring weather for it. A week’s
rain had made the going fairly heavy, and
it obviously troubled many of the horses,
so that the form may be taken with
reservations, especially as few competitors
were really strung up. The state of the
track suited some of the Maorilanders,
particularly Stretto, who, with an allow-
ance of 51b., won the Warwick Stakes,
the first weight-for-age race of the N. S.
Wales season.
Stretto is a five-year-old mare by Hunt-
ing Song-The Begum ; nothing much to
look at but pretty good. Having had a
race the previous Saturday, she was more
forward in condition than her opponents,
and her jockey, Bartle, wisely made the
pace strong from barrier-rise. Gold Rod
almost drew level near the home turn,
but he is a big horse, and he floundered
a bit in the straight. Genetout tried
to sneak through on the rails ; he failed
to get a clear passage, and when Munro
pulled him away from the fence the race
was over. Still, he could scarcely have
beaten Stretto, who held off Gold Rod
by a neck. Royal Chief came from the
clouds to run third. Genetout was
fourth; then came Buzalong, King’s
Head and Mohican.
Gold Rod was favorite at twos;
Stretto was at fours. She has 9st. 41b.
in the Epsom—a lot of weight for a mare
of no great size or substance.
Owner “Lightford” did not fancy Denis
for the Campbelltown Handicap, as it
was the nag’s first race since the autumn ;
and the son of Denis Boy-Sweet Tress
looked burly. The Ring let him drift
to fourteens. To its delight, Denis wor-
ried Brazandt —heavily backed at threes —
out of the prize after a ding-dong tussle
along the straight; the difference was
only half a head. Publicity, badly placed
early and fourth-last for home, came with
a brilliant run to get third. It was a
real Epsom trial for both Denis and
Publicity, but Denis goes up from 7st.
31b. to 7st. 71b., while Publicity drops
from 7st. 1 lib. to 7st. Publicity is now
the Epsom favorite, as he deserves to be.
For looks the field in the Hobartville
Stakes seemed up to f.a.q. three-year-old
standard, but it took the winner lmin.
28sec. to run the seven furlongs. The
winner was Aeolus (Baralong-Queen of
Night), and the bookmakers were so
anxious to lay him that they offered 33
to 1, even 50 to 1. One man wrote a
£lOO-to-£l wager. Pandava eased from
fours to twos. He made all the running,
and McCarten could not ease him at any
stage, as the boys on Petruchio, Royal
Prince and Creditor were anxious *to keep
him going. All three were beaten at the
top of the straight, and Pandava looked
a good thing commencing the last fur-
long, but Aeolus, whose condition was
a credit to Peter Riddle, outstayed him.
Aeolus prevailed by half a length;
Creditor, who came again, was half a
head behind Pandava and just in ad-
vance of Respirator.
Cooranga has 7st. 41b. in the Metro-
politan. She had 7st. 61b. in the Spring
Handicap, and was backed from sevens
to 9 to 2. Last early, and ahead of only
one horse at the half-mile, the mare ran
rings round her opponents, as it were, in
the straight, and scored in convincing
style from Tuckerbox and Billy Boy; a
length and a half; a length. Braidwood
Boy, another lightweight possibility in
the Metrop., was fourth. The favorite,
Cid, would not gallop.
The distance was a mile and three fur-
longs ; the time, 2min. 21 sec. Cooranga’s
performance gives her a decided Metrop.
chance.
Limulet looked a promising two-year-
old last spring. Having his first start since
he ran sixth to Nuffield in the Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes at Randwick, this handsome
son of Limond and Anklet outstayed a
seasoned galloper, Will Rogers, in the
Farm Novice. He went out at threes,
was always in a handy position, and
finished stoutly at the end of the mile.
He may possibly be the best of the Syd-
ney three-year-olds over the Derby dis-
tance.
Perimond was backed from fours to
twos for the Glenlee Handicap, and made
a one-horse race of it in the straight.
Oration and Herarde tried to cut him
down, but it was no good. Autoland
disappointed; however, he is not a young-
ster’s horse, and would have done better
with a stronger rider than Watterson.
Bull Ant was another flop. Perimond is
a four-year-old by Veilmond-Pericoe,
and looks a greatly-improved horse.
«*» •!»
Perimond’s trainer has been credited
with the intention of giving his horse
plenty of racing. The neddy has two en-
gagements at Newcastle this week —in
the Cameron Handicap, a mile race, to-
morrow, and in the Newcastle Cup, mile
and a quarter and 100 yards, on Satur-
day. Allunga has top weight, 9st 51b., in
each ; and Perimond has 7st. 81b. in each.
If Perimond runs in either or both, penal-
ties notwithstanding, he will be worth
considering.
King Gee, back from a moderately
successful trip to Melbourne, is a likely
starter at Newcastle. On Melbourne
form he is not badly treated with 7st.
101 b. in the Cameron Handicap and 7st.
61b. in the Cup.
* * * sft
Cooranga galloped the last half-mile
of the Spring Handicap at Warwick
Farm like a true stayer, and there are
not many true stayers about. She is a
very plain bay mare, but is substantially
built, with plenty of room for heart and
lungs. She failed over a distance at
Doomben, but Doomben is a track that
doesn’t suit the sort of horse that prefers
long stretches and ample room in which
to gallop ; Spear Chief has never quite
shown his best form there. Apropos,
Spear Chief is back in work after a cold
or something that interrupted his Met-
rop. preparation. Harris, one of the
owners, says the delay won’t affect his
chance a bit, but other observers are not
so confident.
* * * *
A horse that may win during the next
month or so, if shrewdly placed, is Slanchi-
var. He may be no more than a third-rater,
but with more condition on him he will
trouble some of the novices and maidens
in seven-furlong or mile handicaps. Look-
ing big and sweating profusely, Slanchi-
var showed some dash at Warwick Farm
in the race won by Limulet. About this
time 12 months ago he was a creditable
second to Bristol in a handicap on the
same course.
* * * *
Are these 1938 three-year-olds much
good? Nuffield is highly thought of, but
the lot that raced at Warwick Farm and
Williamstown are decidedly below the
Ajax-Hua-Avenger standard. It is improb-
able that Pandava will ever stay be-
yond 10 furlongs, and neither Aeolus nor
Creditor is the cut of a Derby colt.
Respirator is more like one: he is the
best-looking son of Windbag seen for
some years, but hitherto his perform-
ances haven’t been up to much.
* * * *
Ajax, it was announced at the begin-
ning of the week, is to do all his spring
racing in Melbourne. Sydney admirers
of the champion, headed by the A.J.C.
committee, will regret it, for the opinion
grows that Ajax is the equal of Phar Lap,
up to a mile and a quarter, anyway. But
the Caulfield Cup and handsomely-
endowed w.f.a. races in between are more
attractive to the owners than what Syd-
ney offers with its plethora of proprietary
racing. If Sydney had a club like the
V.A.T.C., or even Moonee Valley, it
might be different.
* * * *
Ajax opened his account for the new
season by taking the Underwood Stakes
at Williamstown on Saturday. His
seventh successive victory, it brought his
totai earnings to £19,700, making him
the greatest prize-winner in training;
Lough Neagh has accumulated £19,501.
It was a most impressive first-up dis-
play by Frank Musgrave’s chestnut. He
failed by half a second to equal Young
Idea’s course record of lmin. 42sec. for
the mile and 55 yards, but could have
lowered it if pushed in the early stages.
Drawn on the extreme outside, Ajax,
though not actually first into stride,
struck the front quickly. He ran a little
wide at the home turn, and backers had
a momentary fright when Ena (33 to 1)
challenged, but when straightened Ajax
settled down to his work. Badger took
no chances and scored by nearly two
lengths from Ena, with Lord Windburra
a good third. Ajax started at 6 to 4 on,
and little better could be got at any time.
Lord Windburra did best of the three-
year-olds, finishing well in advance of
Tactical and Destiny Bay. The Trump
was a distinct disappointment. His meet-
ing with Ajax at weight-for-age had
swollen the attendance to almost Wil-
liamstown Cup day proportions, but at
no stage did he look a possibility. He
pulled up soundly, which Stan Reid,
trainer of the little bay wonder, regarded
as something to be thankful for.
The chances are that Ajax will run in
the Memsie Stakes at Caulfield on Satur-
day. Other events in view arie the
V.R.C. October Stakes and the Caulfield
Stakes. No decision about Cup engage-
ments has yet been made.
Elanage finished near the tail of the
field in the Underwood Stakes, but Jack
Fryer attributed this to the M.L. stallion
tiring after being pushed along early.
Fryer landed the August Handicap with
Royal Order (Limond-Anklet), who was
backed from 10 to 1 down to sixes, and
came at the right end to score by half
a neck from Ortelle’s Star (fives), with
Lady Kooringal half a head farther off.
Lady Kooringal went wide at the
straight entrance, and it looked as if
either Keeping Watch (7-to-2 favorite) or
Ortelle’s Star would win, but Royal
Order came with a great finishing run
and Lady Kooringal joined in afresh.
Manolive knocked up after chasing Lady
Kooringal for most of the journey.
Ortelle’s Star might have made it a
double for the Caulfield trainer C. T.
Godby. He had previously annexed the
Three-year-old Handicap with Cassio, a
colt for which R. R. Thomas gave 1300
guineas as a yearling. Starting at twelves,
Cassio (Heroic-Desdemona) led through-
out, winning by 2\ lengths from
Adherent (sevens), who beat Percy Mil-
ler’s Good Boy (9-to-4 favorite) by half
a head for second.
Punters were wide of the mark in the
Truganina Handicap, for which Courage
was a 6-to-4 favorite. Courage, trained
by Jack Holt for Baillieu, Robinson and
Clark, is a five-year-old gelding by
Heroic from Rhea (imp.), whose dam is
half-sister to Craganour, an English
Derby winner. Even allowing for
Courage being unable to find an opening
in the straight, his form raises doubt
as to whether the big chestnut is as good
as some people imagine.
Winner was Pageant, trained by F. W.
Hoysted, who went out at 33 to 1. He
finished like a streak of lightning to beat
El Golea (fours) by half a neck. How-
ever, El Golea had to concede the winner
—his equal in age —231 b. Harry Freed-
man reckons that El Golea will benefit
by the outing. Pageant is by Manfred
(sire of The Trump) from Gay Element,
a Comedy King mare that runs back
to Etraweenie and is related to other
classic winners in Merriwee and Wilari.
More will be heard of him.
North Cape, bought for 12igns. at
auction, registered his fifth successive win
over the obstacles in the Paisley Hurdle.
He was a pronounced favorite (5 to 2),
as also was Fearless Imp, winner of the
Manor Welter. Fearless Imp, a grey son
of Heroic, firmed from threes to 2 to 1,
and, well ridden by the Sydney jockey
G. Sholl, scored comfortably from
Shining Star and Gold Streak. The race
was for jumping hoops.
#
Jerry Moloney, the Warrnambool
trainer, was reported to have stated a
few months ago that Mustella (Lanius-
Toussaint) was a better horse than Belar ;
and with Belar he won the V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle of 1933. Mustella
failed at the recent jumping round in
Melbourne. On Wednesday, starting at
threes, he gave no rival a chance over
the first few furlongs of the Hurdle Race
at Bendigo, winning by four lengths from
Tiega, a 2-to-l favorite. Mustella is
a brother to Bermuda, who performed
brilliantly over fences last season but
died through an accident on the training
tracks.
Peter Robertson, who won an Aus-
tralian Steeplechase for the late J. L.
Reilly on Cuffs, figured in the role of
successful trainer at Bendigo when he
landed the chief event o.n the programme
with Clever Son (Son o’ Mine-Lady
Rush), held on lease from Sol Green,
the breeder. Odds available about Clever
Son (fours) were twice as long as the
starting quote of the favorite, Plectrum.
Leading throughout, Clever Son stalled
off a challenge from the imported stal-
lion, who was only a neck in advance of
Bell Buoy (12 to 1). Dam of Clever Son
is by Papyrus, an English Derby winner,
from Hasta, by Spearmint (son of Car-
bine) from a St. Simon mare.
Memories of many great horses that
passed through the hands of the late
Tom Payten were revived when
Bookaar (Carradale-Pastry) dead-heated
for first in a division of the Novice Han-
dicap at Bendigo. The dam of this geld-
ing runs back to Piecrust, bred at the
Kirkham stud by James White. From
Piecrust descended Grasspan, Brakpan,
Koopan, Cider and Apple Pie —all good
’uns. Bert Foulsham, the owner-trainer,
lost over the race from a wagering stand-
point, as Bookaar went out at 7 to 4 on,
which meant that a man who staked
' £7 received back £5 10s. The other dead-
heater, Potuna, was an 11-to-2 chance.
She is by Eastern Monarch from the
George Frederick mare Gunroom, whose
half-brother Chumree was runner-up to
Kentle in the G.N. Hurdle of 1929.
Dark Thorn and Miss Gibbthorne,
both sired by imported Spelthorne, ran
first and second respectively in the
Maiden Handicap at Bendigo, with Sir
Melrose in third place. It was a great
result for the ringmen, as Dark Thorn
started at sevens and the other two at
20 to 1 each.
Kaipara returned his supporters 6 to 1
in the second division of the Novice
Handicap. The solitary favorite to
register an outright victory during the
afternoon at Quartzopolis was Song of
Songs, and the odds in this instance were
too cramped to be satisfying.
“Peon”: The . reference to Compton
being prevented from going to S’Africa
with a cricket side because he is contracted
to Arsenal under the iron-bound regula-
tions of the British Soccer League (B.
24/8/’3B) reminds me that his club has
just paid the highest price on record for
a player (they call it a transfer fee in
Britain): £14,000 for one Bryn Jones,
of Wolverhampton. Arsenal has a huge
ground in the midst of a great London
industrial area, and can afford these fancy
prices.
* * * *
“Happen”: A Yorkshire League club,
Huddersfield, has asked Sievers, the Vic-
torian all-rounder whom many picked for
a place in the Australian Eleven, to sign
up for a term of professional cricket.
Sievers’s type of play would suit League
cricket, where they like players who can
make the most of the Saturday afternoon
into which a League match is crammed.
Sievers, however, says he isn’t likely to
make the trip, the terms offered being
a bit too Yorkshire for him.
* * * *
“Envious”: A Victorian amateur
made an unusual appearance in the
fashion columns while in Adelaide for
the golf championships. His attire was
described as “brown suede shoes, golden-
brown velveteen trousers, yellow sweater
with gay yellow scarf to match, crushed-
down hat with yellow feather.” The
colors were conspicuous in the field —
but not at the winning-post.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: An interesting sidelight
on amateur cycling was the motion of a
delegate at the N.S.W.A.C.U. that new
distinguishing numbers be issued for big
road races before each event. The old
system of letting cyclists keep their old
numbers, he said, allowed unscrupulous
short-handicap men to board a car and.
after being driven well to the front of
the field, to disembark and proceed as
middle-markers. New numbers issued
in rotation from scratch would prevent
this. Lamenting the frailty of human
nature, the meeting decided to see
about it.
{Continued on page 32.)
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Canterbury Stakes: Gold Rod ;
next, Pandava or Stretto.
Flying Handicap: Brazandt;
next, Hammerhead.
Canterbury Guineas: Pandava or
Respirator; next, Aeolus.
September Handicap: Bachelor
King; next, The Wrecker.
Ashbury Handicap: Sidcup ; next,
Black Fern.
FOR CAULFIFLD.
Memsie Stakes: Ajax; next,
Avenger.
Warriston Handicap: Lord Wind-
burra ; next, Veiled Prophet.
Heatherlie Handicap: Young
Idea ; next, Footmark.
Whittier Handicap: Ena ; next,
El Golea.


mm
W'"'
w
w
'////"#.
m
f adic
STEP WITH
'A.
WA
y
TH
Tl
ES
M
/A
Y/.
A.
V
X
.
a 63&
mm
s j * >
Bm
v.-:v ;K
w<
Hkfc
ill
iii:
?:IM
RADIOL A: Model 265. 6.
valve World Range Air Cell
operated Model . . 38 guineas
Other Air Cell Models from
20 guineas.
SETS
V/ITH THE
IWTIGHTY airliners, streamlined trains, television—on every side we see evidence of
JL A the march of progress—and COUNTRY RADIO KEEPS PACE! These Air Cell oper-
ated models, specially designed for use in non-powered areas, now offer the country
listener exactly the same convenience and ease of operation hitherto reserved for city
dwellers. Equipped with an Ever Ready Air Cell, the new-type battery that supersedes
the accumulator and lasts for 12 months with normal use. Air Cell operated radio
ELIMINATES FOREVER THE NUISANCE OF RECHARGING BATTERIES!
23 leading radio set manufacturers are now producing Air Cell operated models—a few
are illustrated—make your choice.
STIC OM It ERG - CARLSON:
Model 780. 6-valve Dual Wave
Air Cell operated Model, 38\ gns.
Other Air Cell Models from 28
guineas. (Prices slightly higher in
W.A.)
m
II
TASMA: Model 585. 5-valve Dual
Wave Air Cell operated Model. Price,
37 guineas. Other Air Cell Operated
Models from 29 guineas. (Prices
slightly higher in W.A.)
Model 330. 5-
valve Dual Wave Air Cell
operated Model. .33 guineas
Other Air Cell operated
Models priced from 27 gns.
. «■#?•,
fsmi m r Vv '* '
' g ;.x . * s
X;iv£v:
'-<\ \
mmxg. / <*•;.*♦ w.£ :.\
p ;■':::;
S.T.C.: Model 523 D. 5-
valve Dual Wave Air Cell
operated Model .35 guineas
Other Air Cell Models from
20 guineas. (Prices slightly
higher in Qld.)
Mi
1
GENA LEX: Model 585. 5-valve
Dual Wave World Reception Air
Cell operated Model .37 guineas
Other Air Cell Models from 29
guineas. (Prices slightly higher in
W.A.)
Other 'well-known makes ol
Air Cell operated Radio in-
clude: Aristocrat (E.S.M.),
Batyphone, Breville, Briton,
Calstan, Crammond, Croy-
don, Howard, Bandmaster,
Paramount, Westinghouse,
Velco, Weldon. Zenith.
KRIESLER: Model 642. 5-
valve World Range Air Cell oper-
ated Model. Price . . . 37 guineas
Other Air Cell Models from 29
guineas. (Prices slightly higher in
W.A.)
mi
LEKMEK: Model 535 T.
5-valve Triple Wave Air
Cell operated Model. Price,
36 and 37 guineas. Others
from 22 guineas.
*
*
AIR CELL Opened RADIO
For full details
concerning any
particular make of
Air Cell operated
Radio Receiver,
consult your local
dealer, or write
to The Ever Ready
Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., Rosebery,
N.S.W.


j
JI child can do ill
9
The Kismet Foot Pump is no muscle-
builder in fact, it isn’t even exercise!
A simple foot pressure operates the
double-cylinder (supercharger) action to
put a double charge of air into the tyre
at each stroke. Twice the air in half the
time means only a few minutes to inflate
all four tyres. You check them accurately
with the built-in Kismet' Gauge.
PRICE 95/-.
KISMET
2 CYLINDER-2 STAGE
FOOT PUMP
Factory Representative in Australia:
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. BOX 71,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Made by a famous firm of pneumatic engineers—built
to rigorous standards of precision to give many years
of easy, exact service. Judge for yourself—at
your dealer's.
WM. TURNER & BRO.. LTD., SHEFFIELD, ENG.
PLUMB AXES
p LU MB
Brisbane Royal Show, 1938.
130 Axes on Ground, 118 were
Plumb Axes. Axemen using
Plumb Axes were Ist, 2nd and 3rd in eight finals.
Ins and Outs
When Hutton (160) and Leyland
(156) put on their pads again at the
Oval the sky was overcast and rain
necessitated some delay. The wicket
was little affected, but the outfield was
wet and the bowlers had a greasy ball
to begin the day with. To add to the
side’s gloom Fingleton ricked a leg
muscle and had to be relieved by White.
Hutton and Leyland made no attempt
at shock tactics, but played slow, steady
stuff, waiting for the runs to come along.
At times they improved the pace a bit,
but they never attempted to massacre the
bowling as Bradman or McCabe would
have done. These tactics brought their
reward. At the end of the day Hutton
remained unbeaten with 300 on the
board, the record Test score for an Eng-
lishman, beating R. E. Foster’s 287 in
Sydney, which has stood since 1904. He
had then only to make another 35 to
beat Bradman’s standing Test-match
record, made in 1930.
When 411 had been scored Leyland
broke the monotony. He tried for a
second run when Hassett apparently
fumbled and paid the penalty, Bradman
running up to the bowler’s wicket and
taking off the bails. Leyland had con-
tributed 187 to a record stand for Eng-
land of 382.
Hammond succeeded him. Batting
cleanly and confidently, the skipper
helped Hutton to make another stand,
the youngster continuing his unemotion-
ally correct stroking. Before Hammond
went, l.b.w. to F.-Smith for 59, England
had reached 546.
A delicious anticipation thrilled the
crowd as Paynter, another giant-killer of
the Leyland type, came along to com-
plete the ruin. This time it was Paynter
who- was ruined, O’Reilly getting the
hero of the first and second Tests l.b.w.
for what he himself would call —prob-
ably with embellishments —“nowt.”
Then Compton played all over one
from Waite and went back for a single ;
5 for 560, and only Hardstaff left among
the accepted batsmen.
But the bowlers were now tired, and
Hardstaff took up the tale of scoring
with Hutton. The Yorkshireman’s robot-
like progress seemed unstoppable. He
reached 300 with an off-stroke through
the covers for 2. Hardstaff had run
along nicely until an appeal against rain
and light ended play for the day ; 5 for
634.
Our bowlers faced an uphill task
gamely. Bradman must have wished
more than once for the useful Chipper-
field, recovering in hospital from his
appendicitis operation. O’Reilly’s 2 wic-
kets cost 144 runs. Fleetwood-Smith,
bowling better on Monday, had to pay
235 runs for his single wicket. Waite
took 1 for 131.
One result of the colorless mammoth
scoring was that it raised doubts as to
the wisdom of played-out matches. The
“Times” said of this one that “any excuse
that may exist for such matches.... was
fully exposed, the affair being reduced
to a run-making competition in which
bowlers must be regarded as a luxury.”
On August 23 the tradition of Aus-
tralia’s overpowering cricket supremacy
was donged, sunk, scuppered or what-
ever you like to call it. Hutton and
Hardstaff were the batsmen, Waite and
McCabe the bowlers. Hutton mooched
along, unattractively faultless. Hardstaff,
whom we know as a dashing driver, also
waited for the runs to come as the
bowlers rolled them up in hopeless
despair. Blessed relief arrived when
Hutton drove a ball to Hassett at cover
and was out at last for 364. It was
about his first attempt at a lash, and there
was a hint of suicide in it.
Another Yorkshireman in Wood was
sent in, and the state of the bowling can
be seen from the fact that this very
ordinary batsman hit it hard for 53
before Barnes caught and bowled him.
Verity came in and scored 8 before the
closure was applied; 7 for 903. Hard-
staff was 159—his first Test century but
not one of his best innings. Our bowlers
took a proper hiding: O'Reilly 3-178,
Smith 1-298, Waite .-150, Barnes 1-84.
The innings produced a deluge of
records. Australia’s 729 for 6 at Lord’s
in 1930 went sky-high, and several wicket
records also went.
England took Hutton’s great feat very
quietly, though the publicans turned on
the ale free at Pudsey, his birthplace, and
only those who know Yorkshire can
appreciate what that means. A comment
from the “Times” seems to summarise
English opinion of Hutton’s batting:
“Hutton added to England’s Test
“Did YOU set that bush on fire, McNab?”
“Aye. Ah lost ma ball!"
history, but Hutton was too soberly
correct to stamp his strokes and methods
on the memory.”
Comparisons are odorous, but the
observant will note that Bradman made
his 334 at Leeds in 6 \ hours, the first
century going up before lunch. He hit
46 boundaries. Hutton took 12 hours
19 minutes to equal Bradman’s score and
hit 32 boundaries. He promises to be a
heartbreak on Australian wickets, like
his follow-Tyke and tutor, Sutcliffe.
The wicket throughout this long
innings was so slow and easy that even
F.-Smith could get little spin and
O’Reilly no devil at all.
The Australians opened with the weight
of the loss of Bradman, who, bowling in
the last few minutes of the mammoth
innings, hurt an ankle and was carried
off the field. With Fingleton also unable
to bat, Badcock began with Brown.
After playing a few balls he succumbed
to the bunyip, or whatever is the Aus-
tralian edition of “hoodoo,” which has
dogged him in every Test this season.
He smacked quite a decent one off Bowes
to square leg and was held by Hardstaff;
Australia, 1 for 0.
• • • * '
McCabe breezed in and showed that
he, too, had lost track of luck and form
alike. The man \vho murdered England s
bowling at Nottingham played one or
two poor shots and was caught in the
slips by Edrich off Fames; two for 29.
* ‘ „ • , ■
h^ a ju!.™ f OT° a n foose' one and
came The nftch
"
ball lifted shoulder-high or kept low.
Hassett joined Brown, and the pair settled
down to what looked like a good part-
nership. Hassett was going well when
he pulled a ball from Edrich to the leg
boundary and what would have been a
four nine times out of ten was caught
on the run by Compton. He scored 42.
......
Barnes, playing his first Test, tackled
the bowling with all the confidence of
Hutton and much more exuberance. The
youth laid the wood on so heartily
that Brown had to remind him that
“stumps” was near and that they had
unlimited time to catch the English score.
A steady period of pat-ball followed, and
when the umpires grabbed the bails Aus-
tralia had lost 3 for 117: Brown 29,
Barnes 25, both n.o.
The English bowlers were not danger-
ous in spite of the low score. Fames
took 1-42, Bowes 1-21 and Edrich 1-27.
On Wednesday morning Brown and
Barnes ran along nicely for a time ; but
at 145 Bowes, who was swinging all over
the place, got one past the young N. 3.
Welshman. Barnes had made a credit-
able 41. After that no one could stay with
Brown. Barnett, Waite and O’Reilly
flitted like troubled ghosts across the
scene without making the scorers re-
sharpen their pencils. F.-Smith kept an
end up until the score mounted to 201,
when Brown, now obliged to force the
pace, hit Leyland to Hammond ; he was
last man out for 69 —an outstanding
instance of courage and skill. F.-Smith
was n.o. 16 —his highest Test score.
Bowes gave of his best to take 5 for
49. Fames, Edrich and Leyland bagged
one apiece.
In the follow-on the showing was
even lamer than in the first innings. Bad-
cock was dismissed by Bowes when he
had made 9 —total for the series 32, with
two ducks included. Brown was caught
by Edrich, off a short ball from Fames,
for 15, and McCabe again failed with
2, Wood catching him behind off a
foolish stroke at a Fames bumper.
Bowes legged Hassett when the Vic-
torian had reached 10. The only bright
spot was the partnership of Barnes and
Barnett. The busy Bs raised the score
from 4-41 to 115 before Barnes went
l.b.w. to Verity for 33. Barnett scored
a meritorious 46, Fames then bowling
him ; and that was all that mattered. The
innings closed at 123 ; Fames 4-63,
Bowes 2-25, Verity 2-15.
So the match which was to have been
played until the finish of the cricket
season if necessary came to an ignomini-
ous end in 3y days with the shattering
defeat of Australia by an innings and
579 runs. There was nothing much wrong
with the wicket. Sheer exhaustion prob-
ably had as much to do with the poor
Australian batting as anything else,
coupled with the realisation that the job
in front of the batsmen was hopeless
when the loss of Bradman
and Fingleton is considered.
Psychology, of which we hear
so much nowadays, plays an
important part in modern
cricket. There are rude per-
sons who would refer to this
particular exhibition of the
inferiority Complex as “drop-
ping the bundle,” but one
may refrain from that. All
the same, the plain facts are
that, on a good wicket and
against bowlers whom they
had pasted unmercifully in
other matches, some of our
batsmen played as if their
only wish was to get it all
over.
The result leaves Australia
in possession of the so-called
ashes, for what that is worth.
In all, 144 Tests have been
played. Australia has won
57, England 55, and —count-
ing in the washed-out Man-
chester match —32 have been
drawn.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: A little bit of sharp prac-
tice by Hutton during the Australian
second innings did not come off. Brown
drove a ball almost to the fence, but
to keep F.-Smith away from the bowl-
ing the pair ran only a single. To defeat
this Hutton kicked the ball to the fence
for four, but was countered when umpire
Chester signalled the scorers to record a
5, thus bringing Brown where he wanted
to be. Hutton can thank his stars that
old Lord Hawke, so long autocrat of
the Yorkshire team, was not his skipper
on this occasion.
* * * *
“Surrey Side”: The Oval has been the
scene of some thumping victories before
this last record win by England of an
innings and 579. England won by an
innings and 217 as long ago as 1886.
Australia’s biggest triumph was in 1934,
when England was beaten by 562 runs.
In all the long series England has scored
an innings victory 15 times to six by Aus-
tralia, counting the matches played both
in England and Australia.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Barnett’s batting has
been good enough to suggest that he is
worth his place in the team apart from
his ability with the gloves. It has been
of the attacking order, not safety-first
stuff like Fingleton’s. In the Test series
Barnett’s scores were 22, 31, 8, 14, 57,
15 n. 0., 2 and 46. No Australian ’keeper
has done better.
* * * *
Sussex, encountered by the Australians
at the Hove ground, near Brighton, was
originally discovered by Rudyard Kip-
ling, though it had been‘heard of before
in connection with 1066 and All That.
It has obligingly produced a breed of
sheep just suited to Australian fat-lamb
raising requirements.
From the cricket point of view Sussex
was last season probably the strongest
batting county in England, but, as with
many of its contemporaries, the bowling
was the weak point. Seven of its bats-
men made over 1000 runs last season —


you can depend on
CHAMPION nuts
for
HILL CLIMBING
Strong hot sparks take your car
up the hills with less effort
less knocking—less overheating.
A set of new Champions will
give your car new life. Best of all,
Champions quickly save enough
fuel to pay for themselves.
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
PIOA
HIM
lIIIIHI
in?!!!
US
ha\\\
vaS
i’.V
j
ĵ
j
ĵ
j
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
ĵ
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
Mick Simmons'
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
..
LIONEL lilliliY, famous Rifle and Revolver Shot ,
and acknowledged authority on Firearms and
Rallistics, is attached to the staff of the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail themselves to the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice.
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
j
No. IA—THE MAINE DE LUXE
RIFLE, 22-cal., bolt action, 24in.
round barrel, pistol grip, bead
front and adjustable rear sight
Weight, about 4flb. -- i+r>l
Price X l/16/-
Postage, 2/—; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 27in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front ._ ,-
sight; weight, about 4£lb. 47/D
Postage, 2/-; Other Spates, 3/6.
No. 46—COOEY “MOHAWK.”
.22-cal., single-shot, for short,
long or long-rifle cartridges.
27in. barrel, walnut stock,
pistol grip, convexed, elevating
rear and silver bead Ar\ /
front sight; weight, 61b. 4U/~
Postage 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 46—COOEY RE-
PEATER RIFLE, 22-cal.,
bolt action, 24in. round
barrel, bead front and
adjustable ladder rear
sight, walnut stock,
pistol grip; magazine
holds 12 short, 10 long
or long-rifle cartridges,
weight, 4fib. £2^7 jQ
Carriage Paid.
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
40. S—HOLLIS D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.,
op lever, 32in. barrels, both choke, bar
ocks, crossbolt, walnut stock; weight,
.bout 7*ib. £l3/17/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 29 —F O X STERLINGWORTH
3.8.8. L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
JOin. steel barrels, left full choke, right
nodified, walnut stock, pistol grip, cham-
jered for 2fin. cartridges,
height, about 7£lb.
Carriage Paid.
£ll/15/-
SPECIAL CLEARANCE!
COMBINATION D.B. GUN AND RIFLE
—12 G., top lever, 30in. gun barrel,
;hoke, 32 W.C.F. rifle barrel, three-leaf
-ear sight, bead front sight, pistol grip;
weight, about Bflb.
Originally £l2/12/-. Now
£7/1716
Carriage Paid
WESTLEY RICHARDS D.8.8.L. HAM-
MERLESS GUN — I 2G., top lever 32in.
steel barrels, full choke, crossbolt, pistol
grip, chamber for 2fin. cartridges;
weight, about
Originally £22/10/-.
Now.
£lB
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
J. H. Parks did what no other English-
man has accomplished scored 3000
runs and took 100 wickets —yet in the
actual county championship no bowler
had a three-figure bag. Parks will be
remembered as a member of Holmes’s
team when that passed through Aus-
tralia on its way to M.L. His only
recognition in Test cricket has been a
game against the last Maoriland side in
England.
A bit of a mystery is Bartlett, the
Cambridge captain in 1936. He played
two matches last year with the county
—against Cambridge and Oxford and
scored 31, 122, 99 and 51. This season
all we have heard of him is as making
a big score in dashing style against the
Players. He is a left-hander.
The Australians rested F.-Smith and
O’Reilly, which, counting the casualties,
left them with 11 men. Weather and
wicket were good and McCabe won the
toss. The batting was languid, though
Brown, who went in sixth wicket down,
helped the total along with a 75, and
Hassett (74), Waite (46) and White (44)
carried it to 336—W00d 4 for 96. By
stumps the county had 43 runs on the
board without loss.
With a strong batting side against
them and only Waite, White, McCormick
and Ward to supply the bowling, the
outlook for Monday was none too rosy.
Footbrawl
“The four” in Melbourne are Carlton,
Geelong, Footscray and Collingwood.
'Wood on its own ground passed Mel-
bourne out of the premiership by 12.19
to 11.15. Melbourne contested every
inch of ground, and was a bit superior
in point of individual play; but the old
'Wood system worked in the old fashion,
and, to the delight of all Collingwood,
it prevailed.
By beating St. Kilda 15.14 to 13.10,
Carlton clinched its right to challenge if
beaten in final or semi-finals. Gee-
long and Footscray had fairly easy
matches; Geelong beat South, 15.12 to
12.8, and ’Scray downed North, 18.11 to
11.18. ’Scray has had a strenuous time
lately, and an opportunity of taking
things comfortably was welcome. In
the other games Essendon (12.18) de-
feated Hawthorn (9.15), and Fitzroy
(15.18) proved too good for Richmond
(13.15).
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Australian football in Mel-
bourne is in a proper state of ferment.
The “Age” says that owing to the steady
expansion of Rugby and Soccer “at the
expense of Australian football” a sug-
gestion that an Australian Football Board
be formed to embrace amateur and pro-
fessional sections of the game and con-
trol the code be given serious considera-
tion. It is not generally realised into
how many sections in Victoria the control
of A.R. is split. In addition to Asso-
ciation and League, there are the
Amateur Association, the powerful Vic-
torian Union with its 30,000 juniors, the
G.P.S. organisation, and Ballarat, Ben-
digo, Geelong and other country leagues
or associations. The welding of all
these interests into one would be a stiff
job.
* * * *
With one round only remaining there
are still vacancies in “the four” for Syd-
ney’s Rugby Union semi-finals. Rand-
wick, six points out in front now, is safe,
but West, in second place, is only one
point ahead of Manly, North, St. George
and Drummoye. Saturday’s win for
’Wick was a 25-16 (six tries to three)
gallop against University, uncomfortable
in its unaccustomed position at the
bottom of the list. West, though it man-
aged only four tries to three, handed East
a trouncing, 22-9; and St. George put itself
level with Manly by downing the Vil-
lagers 22-15, also four to three in tries.
Drummoyne scraped home two points
ahead of North, 11-9; and Gordon
gathered the whole of its total in the last
ten minutes to account for Parramatta
13-7.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The managers of the Wes-
tralian footballers recently in Melbourne
have scathingly reported on the convivial
habits of some of their charges. These
all crossed their throats that they would
not only shun the flowing bowl but be
in bed early. Imagine then the horror
of the heads when duty kept them abroad
late at night and they encountered several
of their rebellious charges in a high
state of festivity. Recalls an experience
in Sydney with a Queensland team many
years ago. Our captain, a serious person
much given to the utterance of a slogan,
“Steady, boys, steady,” assembled us in
the hotel the night before the first match
and enjoined every member to meet him
in the upstairs sitting-room at 9 p.m.
sharp to be paraded for bed. The whole
conscientious crowd was there on time,
save one, the skipper. Time crept on,
but still no appearance. Expeditions were
made to try to locate him, but failed.
We were just thinking of ringing up the
hospital when a fearful tumult on the
stairs —the lift was not working—roused
everyone. There followed a heavy
clumping of boots, punctuated with mut-
tered remarks and what were evidently
collisions with the corners of the lift-
well. Then the door burst open and
on the stroke of 11.15 p.m. precisely
there fell into the room our captain.
His head protruded through the top of
his straw hat, but the maroon ribbon of
Queensland hung like an order of knight-
hood round his neck. Tenderly we raised
him, noting that he wore for a button-
hole an immense prawn backed by a
lettuce-leaf. Casting a gooseberry eye
around he hiccupped “Shteady, boysh,
shteady,” and slipped to the carpet,
from which he declined to be shifted.
# * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian R.U. coun-
cil meeting was marked by the favorable
reception given to a proposal by
R. W. D. Mould urging the formation
of an Australian Board of Control for
Rugby. He added that South Australia,
Tasmania and Westralia were in favor of
it. At present conditions were such that
in England people thought N.S.W. was
Australia as far as Rugby was concerned.
Chairman Michaelis pointed out that for
a long time, thanks to N.S.W. activities,
Rugby Union in Australia was under
direct control from the English R.U.,
which had appointed the N.S.W. body
its representative. One result of this
was that N.S.W. would make a profit
of £lOOO from the All-Black tour.
* * * *
Given grounds handy to the city,
Soccer would give League Rugby a go
for it in Sydney. The game is fast and
attractive, and there is rarely any stoush.
Just on 17,000 spectators went to the
Showground for the first of the Indians’
matches in Sydney. The Indians im-
pressed as speedy and clever in attack ; it
was their defence that let them down
against the bigger and stronger N. S.
Welshmen. At half-time it was three-all;
at the end N.S.W. was six to four. No
doubt the Indians will improve, and their
matches against Australia should be in-
teresting.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: The Indian Soccer
footballers were defeated by a Melbourne
team, 4 goals to 2. Reports blame the
“rough surface of the Melbourne Cricket
Ground” for the fact that the defeated
team, many of whom play in bare feet
as in their native land, were handicapped
by badly-cut feet. To say that the
M.C.G. is rough-surfaced is to dodge
the facts. Writer would be prepared to
shove a peanut across it with his nose
and back himself to emerge without in-
jury. When the visit of the Indians was
first mooted The Bulletin strongly ad-
vised them to wear boots. The advice
is repeated.
* * * *
“Gate”: A peace has been patched up
between the N.S.W. and Queensland
Rugby Leagues. Queensland has been
troubled at N.S.W.’s evident inclination
to throw over inter-State matches and
rely on Sydney club football and Eng-
lish visits. Now a team from each Stale
will visit the other each season for two
metropolitan and two country matches,
except when English teams are here;
then one visit in the season must suffice.
One difficulty is that the League is slip-
ping both in Queensland and N.S.W.
Nineteenth Hole
The Australian golf championships
finished up much as expected. In Syd-
ney Miss Kemot, of Victoria, kept her
Australian title by beating Miss Ebert,
of N.S.W., by 7 and 6.
The foursomes title went to Misses
Sydney Jones and Ebert, who returned
a score of 166.
In Adelaide the baser sex fought out
the amateur and professional champion-
ships. Jim Ferrier, winner of the open,
took the lilywhite event, defeating Payne,
of Victoria, 8 and 6. Only two others
have taken the double before him, Clyde
Pearce in 1908 and the late Michael Scott
in 1907.
Eric Cremin, of N.S.W., kept his pro-
fessional title by downing another Welsh-
man, Booth, 2 and 1.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Henry Cotton retained
his German championship at Frankfort-
on-the-Main with a card of 285 for 72
holes, which included one round of 68.
Another Briton, Arthur Lees, was second
with 300.
Racquet and Bawl
Tennis experts began whooping when
it was reported that Budge and Mako
had shown poor form in recent matches
and that Budge had gone stale. How
much truth there was in the yarns was
revealed in the U.S. national doubles
final at Boston ; Budge and Mako dis-
posed of Quist and Bromwich in straight
sets: 6-3, 6-2, 6-1. Previously Hopman
and Schwartz, drawn against the other
Australians in a semi-final, had wanted
to withdraw, Hopman advancing the
preposterous reason that if the tie was
played Budge and Mako would get to
know all the Quist-Bromwich secrets.
The foolish young man communicated
with Melbourne, and was evidently told
from that quarter that tennis is a game,
not a war.
Budge and Bromwich also figured
in the final of the mixed doubles with
countrywomen as partners. Budge and
Miss Marble beat Bromwich and Miss
Coyne, 6-1, 6-2. In a semi-final of the
women’s double Miss Coyne and Miss
Wynne were defeated by Mme. Mathieu
and Mile. Jedrejowska.
“Top Spin”: The U.S.A. has nomi-
nated Budge, Mako, Rigg and Hunt as
its Davis Cup representatives against
Australia. Hunt has a reputation as a
doubles player—he and his partner are
seeded after Budge and Mako —but will
probably figure as a reserve.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. Tennis Association’s
annual report stresses the value of the
national junior coaching given by Pat
O’Hara Wood, after receiving which
Newcombe, of Adelaide, won the junior
championships of Australia, Victoria,
S.A. and W.A., with, in Victoria and
S.A., the doubles as well. Adelaide made
over £lOOO on the visit of the Germans
and the Americans for the Australian
championships, and added that sum to
its steadily-growing funds. It has since
opened also, for the first time, hard
courts—eight for a start.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Of Human Hearts.”
Walter Huston, James Stewart and
Beulah Bondi.
Honore Morrow’s story of a back-
woods preacher and his family in the
days, of America’s Civil War, Benefits
Forgot, has been treated with respect
by the film adaptors. The narrative is
allowed to unfold itself in leisurely style,
with plenty of time for the delineation
of character —and it is for its character
studies that this screen play will live
longer in memory than 99 p.c. of its con-
temporaries. Fine and resourceful actor
as he is, Walter Huston has never had
a more congenial or more telling part
than that of the Rev. Ethan Wilkins—
narrow, sincere, in some ways the very
soul of courtesy and understanding for-
bearance, in others strangely obstinate
and purblind. A proud, strong, shrewd
man, constrained by his vocation to
humility, Huston makes the preacher a
living and convincing entity.
James Stewart as the son, clever, im-
pulsive, proud, rebellious, also succeeds
in making a mixture of warring qualities
natural. The son’s sin is that he forgets
his widowed mother, who has sacrificed
all for him while he is making a career
for himself as an army surgeon. With
the preacher dead, the story slumps
gently into melodrama. Widowed mother
writes to President Lincoln (very well
played by John Carradine) for news of
her son —she hasn’t heard from him for
two years. Old Abe promptly yanks the
young surgeon to Washington, lures him
up the garden-path with buttered words,
».sks a few friendly questions, and then,
after a bitter tongue-lashing, stands over
him while the young man writes to his
mother praying for forgiveness. The
young fellow truly repents and makes
the amends necessary to a happy ending.
Beulah Bondi, as the preacher’s wife,
is well i.n the picture, but it is dominated
by Huston as long as he is on the screen.
Guy Kibbee as a mean-minded store-
keeper fills an ungracious role efficiently,
and Charles Coburn and Robert Mc-
Wade impart a little humor as a pair
of medicoes, vastly different in everything
but ability. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Kidnapped”
Warner Baxter and Freddie Bartholomew.
Among the credit announcements of
this opus is a picture of R. L. Stevenson
sitting up in bed writing, and in the film
there are characters named Alan Breck
(Warner Baxter), David Balfour (Freddie
Bartholomew), Ebenezer Balfour, Mr.
Rankeiller, Rev. Simpson, Captain Hosea
and first-mate Riach. There is a fair
representation of David’s dealings with
his rascally uncle, and of that worthy’s
disastrous downfall, and the Red Fox
is duly assassinated, but almost the whole
of the screening-time is devoted to box-
officely-popular bedroom comedy situa-
tions in which Alan Breck (“smallish in
stature, his face sunburnt very dark and
heavily freckled and pitted with small-
pox, his eyes unusually light”) is repre-
sented by a large, handsome gentleman
with a schoolgirl complexion and particu-
larly dark eyes, who wanders around the
country with a Scottish lass, daughter of
poor farmer folk, represented by Holly-
wood’s latest glamor girl, plucked eye-
brows, heavily enamelled mouth, mas-
cara’d eyelashes, and a trousseau of
lingerie that must have put Twentieth
Century Fox back at least 10,000 bucks.
Stevenson never heard of this lady.
Neither was he aware that, while still
trapesing around Scotland with her, Breck
was arrested, sentenced to be hanged by
five Judges in full-buttomed wigs and
reprieved after an affecting scene with
the Duke of Argyll, “Lord Chief-Justice-
General of Scotland” (represented by
C. Aubrey Smith).
The film will not be popular in Scot-
land, for most of the actors are Ameri-
can and speak that way, and even the
few English in the cast can’t manage the
Doric accent. Still, although it hasn’t
the faintest whisper of the Stevenson
flavor, the film is fair entertainment, and
a generation that is supposed never to
read R.L.S. may be expected to notice
nothing amiss. At Sydney Embassy.
“Port of Seven Seas.”
Wallace Beery, John Beal and Maureen
O’Sullivan.
A free ramble on the text of “Auld
Robin Gray.” Action takes place on
the Marseilles waterfront, where Maureen
O’Sullivan runs a shellfish stall. Lover
John Beal sails off on a three years’
cruise just prior to her discovering that
she is about to become a mother. The
young man’s departure is bitterly resented
by his gruff old dad, Wallace Beery, who
runs a grogshop adjoining Maureen’s
oyster stall. Frank Morgan, as an elderly
widower in the sail-making business, has
his hands full consoling Maureen, whom
he worships, and sympathising with
Beery. Maureen, when it becomes
apparent that John Beal will not return
in time to make her an honest woman, is
forced to accept an offer of marriage
from Morgan, who is wealthy and
anxious to father the unborn child. Beery
rages and storms and threatens to pre-
vent the marriage, but calms down when
he learns how his son left Maureen in
the lurch. After the marriage John Beal
FACES AT SYDNEY LIBERTY.
Top.—Herman Bing and Henry Hull in “Romance for Three.”
Bottom. —Melvyn Douglas and Warren William in “Arsene Lupin Returns.”
casually reappears and attempts to win
Maureen back. Beery sides with the
husband, Maureen wavers, but finally
refuses to break up her home, and John
Beal retires, heavy-hearted, to sail the
seven seas again.
Flashes of humor save the film from
being the harrowing thing it might easily
have become. The scenes in Beery’s bar
where he and Morgan and another crony,
played delightfully by Etienne Girardot,
wrangle and make up keep the audience
in a pleasant mood. The scene where
Girardot sets sail in a lopsided skiff is
another that gets laughs. Beery is his old
grumbling, good-hearted self, Morgan
portrays the fussiness of the sailmaker
to perfection, Beal is, as ever, a little
wooden, and Miss O’Sullivan is appro-
priately husky-voiced and sad-eyed when
occasion demands. At Sydney Capitol.
“Penrod’s Double Trouble.”
Youngsters will find plenty in this Syd-
ney Capitol support to keep them yelling
their young heads off. It is another film
version of a Booth Tarkington story, and
the Mauch Twins share the honors. The
irrepressible Penrod (Billy Mauch), for-
bidden to attend a carnival, attends the
affair anyway and hides in the basket of
a captive balloon. A disgruntled para-
chute-jumper releases the gasbag and
Penrod is lifted skyward and carried off
towards Mexico. Penrod’s father offers
a reward for the lad’s safe return. The
parachute-jumper and a medicine show
faker ring in a double, Danny (Bobby
Mauch), a youngster who is the dead
spit of Penrod. Coached by the faker,
Danny pleads lost memory and deceives
the parents and Penrod’s gang of small
friends. Penrod comes back, the medi-
cine faker and the jumper squabble,
Penrod is kidnapped by the jumper and
Danny gets conscience-stricken. It ends
with a rally of Penrod’s gang —all mem-
bers of a Junior G-Men Club —and a
rounding up of the crooks in a battle
with sticks and stones as the chief
weapons. Like all Tarkington films, it
is good, wholesome stuff for the nippers.
“You and Me.”
Sylvia Sidney and George Raft.
Title of this expanded “Crime Doesn’t
Pay” opus at Sydney Prince Edward is
aoparently intended to suggest the in-
timate domestic character of many of
the situations. The story is one of those
“fairy tales to make people feel good”
beloved by American magazine pub-
lishers. Department-store tycoon makes a
hobby of giving an honest chance to
convicts on parole. George Raft, selling
racquets in the sports department, has
had experience of many other rackets,
but is now on the up and up. His parole
period having elapsed (you can’t marry
while on parole) he casts his eye on
rosebud-lipped, tragic-eyed Sylvia Sid-
ney, in the lingerie, and marries her. No
more crooked dames for him. He’ll
marry a straight girl and run straight.
But —and here comes the snag—Sylvia
is also a parolee, and daren’t tell him.
Whin he finds out he goes all snaky
and joins up with other ex-cons, and
that sinister gangster Barton McLane
to rob the store. Sylvia blows the gaff.
The burglars, sneaking in, are met by
the store-owner, Sylvia and several stern
men with automatics. But they don’t
even get the sack. Instead, Sylvia gives
a little lecture, illustrated with figures
on a blackboard, demonstrating that
the 30,000-buck robbery contemplated
would have netted each participant only
$98.73. She then packs up her traps
and fades from the scene. Learning that
she is about to add to the population,
Raft scours the city for her, and a
touching reconciliation happens in a
maternity hospital. Handkerchers for
this one.
“Doctor Rhythm.”
Bing Crosby and Beatrice Lillie.
This songandance fantasia at Sydney
Prince Edward moves merrily and assays
at least a chuckle a minute. Mr. Crosby,
as usual, moves through a medley of
nightmarish romping with the im-
perturbability of a cigar-store Indian.
His woodenness, like Chaplin’s, is
cleverly exploited, and adds to the fun.
He croons, of course, but on one or
two occasions sings naturally, producing
a baritone of very pleasing resonance.
Miss Lillie, better known on the stage
in revues than on the screen, has a
gift of gauche humor, and her singing
is genuinely funny. Andy Devine has
a prominent part as a cop, and Mary
Carlisle, pursued by Bing through many
vicissitudes, provides romantic interest.
“King of the Newsboys.”
Another of those fairy tales, with a
racecourse flavoring. Crossed in his love
for Helen Mack, Lew Ayres, a humble
newsboy, wins friends and interests
people by organising a newspaper-
distributing trust, speedily bounding to
the topmost heights of affluence. After
an hour or so of harrowing incidents
culled from box-office successes of
earlier talkie days, he wins his Helen,
who has been in the toils of a dope-
sheet operator. Alison Skipworth is the
only member of the cast who behaves in
the least like a human being. Doing
the rounds.
“Air Devils.”
There’s a spot or two of flying in this
time-worn romance of the U.S. Marines,
but not enough air and not enough devil
to justify the title. Larry Blake and
Dick Purcell are respectively sergeant
and private in the constabulary of a
Pacific island (the Marines, it is ex-
plained, often undertake such duties).
Sergeant bullies private. Then sergeant
Larry is disrated and Private Dick gets
stripes. Sergeant still bullies private.
But they’re good friends all through, and
when in a tough spot that’s proved. Fair
fare. Beryl Wallace is the goil.
“Blind Alibi.”
The dog Lightning.
The most scathing dramatic criticism
on record comes in handy for this one.
The hound is poorly supported. The
story is a tedious one about blackmailing
gangsters. To rescue his beauteous sister
Richard Dix pretends to be blind so
that he may, without being suspected,
search for the missing letters, which have
been concealed for some utterly incredible
reason, in an art museum. Lightning
(called Ace for the purposes of the film)
acts as eyes and brains for his sup-
posedly blind master, and proves himself
easily and finest and most conscientious
actor in an otherwise undistinguished
cast. At Sydney Embassy.
“Little Miss Thoroughbred.”
Though the central character is an
orphan chee-ild in search of a foster
father lachrymose passages are mercifully
few and brief. The infant, Janet Chap-
man, a newcomer, seldom lets the tear
downfa’. Wandering from an orphanage
she is picked up by a pair of turf
spielers—John Litel and Frank Mc-
McHugh—and is adopted by them.
Anne Sheridan, cast as one of those high-
minded females so often associated in
the fillums with gentlemen of dubious
reputation, is called upon to attend to
the child. A big-hearted traffic cop —
Robert Homans—smells something fishy,
and his prying results in Anne and John
Litel becoming married solely for the
protection of Janet. The child travels
the country with her supposed parents
and proves a luck-bringer to gambler
John. Eventually the adults are brought
to court and face a charge of abduction.
Janet puts it all over the prosecuting
counsel, and the pleasant little trifle ends
with an acquittal and John promising
to go back to an honest job in a factory.
“Three Blind Mice.”
Binnie Barnes.
Loretta Young rules the roost in this
flight-from-a-chicken-farm story at Syd-
ney Century, but Binnie Barnes makes it
the good comedy it is. Binnie, looking
more like a well-fed giraffe than ever,
is rich and crazy, and picking up im-
possible men or putting down incredible
pints, she’s a delight.
Loretta, aided by two sisters, flees from
the fowls in Kansas to catch a million-
aire in California. But nearly everyone
else in the flash pubbery she settles in
is also fortune-hunting. The bright com-
plications and the brighter dialogue that
follow make it worth waiting for the
inevitable fadeout in the arms of a
millionaire minus his millions.
With “Three Blind Mice” is “The
Saint in New York,” very nearly a first-
class crime film. “The Saint,” gay and
English, is waging war on N’Yark’s
gangsters. He does it both efficiently
and entertainingly, but every time any-
one wants to bump him off he sees the
bump coming and bounces much too
easily.
Cradles, Now.
A week or two ago this Page, having
a phobia about slumber-suitings and
slumber-furnishings owing to chronic in-
somnia, observed with tears the great
bed outbreak in Sydney talkie houses.
Now they’ve got down to cradles.
But this time it doesn’t seem to be
any mysterious vendetta on the part of
directors. Schools broke up for the
holidays on Thursday—and so, not


LimericK
Competitions
For Each of These Competitions £5O in Prize-money
Second Competition:—
£5O PRIZES
First Prize £4O
Ten Other Prizes £1
Closing Date September 16.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space
provided for the purpose, cut out the whole
coupon, and post to reach
"Limericks No. 2
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than September 16.
Results of this Second Limerick Com-
petition will be announced in “The Bulletin”
of September 21.
Any competitor may send in as many
entries as he or she wishes for this or succeed-
ing competitions, but each entry must be filled
in on a Limerick Coupon.
“The Bulletin” wants to publish the prize-
winning lines, so competitors are warned that
it will be the best publishable entries that will
collect the cash.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper
Co. Pty., Ltd., is eligible to compete. Other-
wise these competitions are open to all, free
of any entrance charge.
This announcement will be repeated in
“The Bulletin” of September 7, and coupons
may be filled in from any issue.
SECOND LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
Said a housewife residing at Clare:
“ This is more than 1 really can bear!
Again, you black sinner,
You re late home to dinner
Results, and New Competitions.
Results of the First Limerick Competition,
which closes on Sept. 2, will be announced
in next week’s “Bulletin” (Sept. 7).
Also in the Sept. 7 issue, to give readers in
distant parts a fair chance to compete, the
Third of this series of Limerick Competitions
will be announced. It will close on Sept. 30,
and the same prize-money will be offered.
counting the marathon performer “Snow
White and the Seven Dwarfs” and the
Disney oddments elsewhere there is
Shirley Temple sunning herself at Regent
in “Sunnybrook Farm,” Freddie Bar-
tholomew in “Kidnapped” at Embassy,
Billy Mauch in “Penrod’s Double
Trouble” at Capitol (support), and Jane
Withers frolicking at Civic in “Rascals.”
The Withers item (others are referred
to elsewhere) is her usual beefier, tougher
Shirley Temple, with comic relief from
a really entertaining band of “gipsies.”
Lurv pops in with a rich goil who has
lost her memory and stumbles into the
gipsies’ camp.
In support at Civic is “Flight into
Nowhere” (Jack Holt). Aviator crashes
in jungle ; goes wicked with grog and
native wife. Rescue party finds him,
and wishes it hadn’t, after an arduous
search by mountain, river and jungle for
what feels like 50 years.
“Mother Earth.”
This, the third of a series of talkie
films dealing with common phases of
Australian life produced under the
sponsorship of the N.S.W. Rural Bank,
epitomises briefly the work and the out-
look of the man on the land and of the
people who help to market and transport
his products. It seems to be intended
mostly for "use in Britain as an argument
for immigration, and it is very good
propaganda for that purpose. Photo-
graphy is excellent, the choice of scenes
being admirable, and a tremendous
amount of matter cogent to the subject
has been packed into 1400 ft. of film.
A little story with a dash of romantic
interest threads the scenes together very
pleasantly, and of course there’s a little
boost for the bank —it comes to the
aid of the hero and heroine when they
need financial backing to carry on. First
public presentation in Australia is on
the current programme at Sydney
Lyceum.
“Rebecca of Sunnybrook
Farm.”
Shirley Temple.
Kate Douglas Wiggin’s novel has been
so altered that it bears practically no
resemblance to the original. Rebecca—
-1938 model—is no other than Shirley
Temple, and she is a juvenile radio star
for whose services the manufacturer of
“After Rain,” by Harold G. Herbert, at David Jones’s
Gallery, Sydney.
a breakfast food is willing to pay a for-
tune. Through an unconvincing accident
the manufacturer's agent Randolph
Scott-loses track of her and as a result
almost has a nervous breakdown. Shirley
has been sent to Sunnybrook Farm, the
property of a sourish maiden aunt, and
by a fortunate coincidence Mr. Scott
retires to the adjoining farm to recuper-
ate. The youngster and the agent
meet and become friends. Before
signing Shirley up he has to secure the
aunt’s consent, which is withheld. How-
ever, with the aid of Gloria Stuart—
Shirley’s screen cousin—he carries on
without the necessary permission, and
Shirleys first broadcast creates sales
records in the breakfast-food trade. The
aunt weakly gives away and falls in love
at the same time with an admirer—Slim
Summerville—whom she had jilted 25
years previously. A scheming stepfather
takes Shirley out of Mr. Scott’s hands,
but he is finally tricked into hand-
ing her back. The Temple kid is much
the same as ever—several years too old
toi her size, but a very capable enter-
tamer.
“Josette.”
Simone Simon and Don Ameche. .
Two brothers (Robert Young and Don
Ameche) and a girl (Simone Simon) are
the principal characters, and the story
revolves merrily around a familiar mis-
taken-identity plot. The brothers are
sons of a retired and wealthy fish-canner
who has got himself entangled with a
cabaret crooner. The boys pack the
old man off to New York —action takes
place in New Orleans —and set out to
give the crooner her marching orders.
The crooner follows the father, and
Simone Simon steps into her shoes at a
night club, adopting her name at the
same time. She, of course, is young,
dazzling and seductive, and both of the
brothers think she is worthy of becoming
a member of the family, though too good
and beautiful for the old chap. Both woo
her—Robert Young in a hilarious, flip-
pant manner and Don Ameche in a
sober, honorable way. She hesitates be-
tween the two, but wisely votes for Don.
There are a few catchy songs and some
fine scenes of the Mississippi. The two
young men are the show —Simone Simon
never seems completely to enter into the
spirit of the proceedings.
“Personal A*>r»mrance” in
Melbourne .
The disapjjccn au.. „i “Personal
Appearance” from Melbourne Comedy
is announced for the current week. The
glamor allegedly attaching to a film star
failed to make Betty Balfour’s sojourn a
national event. Laurence Riley’s play
just passes muster as a satire on the
screen, but it doesn’t tell an audience
anything it didn’t know before. The
local Frank Bradley is an island of good
acting in an ocean of so-so farce. The
leading lady, curiously enough, is more
reminiscent of Sybil Thorndike than of
an American darling of the silver sheet.
Harold Herbert’s Water-
colors.
In the gallery of David Jones’s new
store in Market-street, Sydney, Mel-
bourne artist Harold Herbert has a show
of about 30 water-colors. Herbert is the
cause of much tut-tutting in highbrow
art circles because he persists in
turning out pretty
pictures, believing
that the artist’s job
is as much to cor-
rect Nature for her
own good as to
transcribe her.
When he has fin-
ished with a scene
it looks more like
heaven than earth.
x The current
show, with but two
or three exceptions,
features river
scenes or land-
scapes with some
sort of water in
them. Herbert has
invaded N. S.
Wales and dis-
covered the
Hawkesbury, and
depicts it at large
as it wanders
through the plain,
as in “At Rich-
mond,” and more
intimately as in
“H awkesbury
River,” where the
brown tinge under
the shade of bosk-
age is cunningly
worked into a
delightful composition. No. 9, called
simply “Blue,” is a decorative triumph,
whatever it may be as a landscape.
No. 2, “Haystacks,” is as rich and
glowing as an oil. The Herbert treat-
ment of distances, as broad as that of the
most relentless impressionist, but giving
the aspect of infinitesimal detail, is well
exemplified in “Hobart Town.” No. 21,
“After Rain,” reproduced here, is as
clever in color as it is in form.
Betty Kopsen’s Pictures.
Betty Kopsen’s show at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, is partly made
up of gleanings during a sea-voyage.
Her drawing is good, her treatment of
paint vigorous and direct, but her sense
of color is either extremely naive or
remarkably eccentric. “Akersberga,
Sweden” and “Wet Night in Gothen-
burg” are clever compositions, and
“Kensington Gardens” is a pleasant
change from more ordinary methods of
portraying boskage.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns — a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Coras are killed while you sleep— a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
j
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling I.lst Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union
AMAZING NEW TOMATOES!
CLIMBING TOMATO (imported). Amazing
introduction. Climbs to 20ft. on trellis, fence,
netting. BEARS THROUGHOUT THE YEAR.
Yields TWO BUSHELS large (3|in. x 2fin.)
red, meaty Tomatoes per plant. AMAZINGLY
PRODUCTIVE. SOW NOW. Government
tested seed (93 per cent, germination in 7 days),
2/6 packet, posted.
PURE WHITE TOMATO! (Imported.)
“White Beauty.” Skin, flesh, juice and seeds
PURE WHITE. Amazing new 100 PER CENT
NON-ACID HEALTH TOMATO (non-injuri
ous), LUSCIOUS FLAVOUR. Heavy bearer
Large fruit (s£in. x l|in.), DISEASE FREE
Easily grown any locality. DROUGHT
PROOF! Makes delicious jam. Government
tested seed (germination 85 per cent.), 2/6
packet, posted. SOW NOW.
Exclusive Distributors for Southern Hemi-
sphere: —
N.S.W. SEED CO., 17a Pitt Street, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lord Huntingfield and his tall lady
were the pivot of the Victoria League’s
reception last week. This attracted the
best frocking and a great crop of feather
capes to the Australia Hotel. Men with
many decorations and tall churchmen
sprinkled the crowd in the reception-
rooms. Lady Huntingfield is what the
writers of the ’nineties would have de-
scribed as Junoesque. She carries herself
with the right dash of dignity, but her
smile is all warmth. Her frock of ivory
satin was patterned in warm brown chry-
santhemum tonings ; her ostrich-feather
cape and fan were of burnt orange, and
in her hair diamonds glittered.
Lord Huntingfield conveys the impres-
sion of sophistication and wit and maybe
a little kindly mockery. The Victoria
League hostesses, who stood in a line in-
side the door to receive, were headed by
Miss Macarthur Onslow. Her black
velvets had a trifle of hand-made lace
around the shoulders, very tempting to a
snatch thief. But, of course, there are
none of these in the V.L. Lace and
velvet were the popular fabrics among the
hostesses, the former being worn in pale
lavender tones by the King lady, in black
by the Hughes lady and in leaf-browns
by Mrs. McNall. Mrs. Walter Swinson
was among the velvet clad, flower-pat-
terned black her choice.
Black velvet and a black feather cape
of suave richness were the choice of
Dame Constance D’Arcy. Mrs. Charles
Regan brought son Lawrence, daughter
Mary and an English visitor, Elizabeth
Kemp. Mary Regan was paintable, her
black hair and warm coloring distinctive
above the tunic of Chinese embroidery
in Pekin reds, blues and greens. Mrs.
C. E. Fawsitt’s woodland-brown outfit
was among the admired; so was the
Chinese coat in jade and silver worn
by Mrs. Stacpoole. Mrs. David
Maughan, Mrs. Crawford Robertson and
Mrs. J. C. Windeyer were notable. The
last, too, had a coat of exquisite Chinese
embroidery.
Mrs. Talbot’s white satins were caped
in mink ; Mrs. Vernon Coles added a long
spray of hyacinths to her burgundy crepes.
Miss Nancy Jobson, Winifred Wilson and
Mrs. Sterling Levis were an interested
group when Nuttie Mackellar and her
partner gracefully danced. Mrs. Mowll,
in black velvet, was quite unaware that
some young things were laying bets as
to the relative heights of her archbishop
and his Grace of Newcastle.
Flynn of the Inland standing beside a
model of the new hospital at Dunbar,
behind them both a great map of Aus-
tralia, was a striking bit of the Kirk at
Work Fair last Friday. The map of Aus-
tralia flashed with different colored elec-
trics —red and blue and yellow lights.
These picked out the names of the dif-
ferent A.I.M. centres. Dunbar was a
nice blue light in a straight line down
from Cape York. Tucked away in an
end of the Town Hall were the treasures
of the manse. Mrs. Clouston had had
a lot of fun collecting these from the
homes of the Presbyterian clergy through-
out the State. The pride of the glass-
cases was a silver Wedgwood coffee-pot
from which John Wesley had once poured
his after-dinner cup. This had been
presented by him to one of our pioneer
padres. There was a christening bell in
the blues and golds of Crown Derby.
Taking us back to a time before even
gas had been thought of were silver
candle-extinguishers. Toddy ladles and
a wine slide —all in silver, the toddy
ladles with whalebone handles —suggested
that manse life occasionally had its
sociabilities. Snuffboxes, Waterford
glass, silver tea traces of
Robert Louis Stevenson in letters, patch-
work and samplers, and frocks fashioned
150, 100 and 95 years ago, with Mrs.
Clouston’s treasured Carrickmacross lace,
enriched the stall. Interest was the frock
of white moire which in its original state
had been the wedding dress of Mrs.
Tertius West. Before her marriage she
was Martha, daughter of Rebecca and
Francis Oakes. Rebecca Oakes had
been Rebecca Small, one of the first white
children, if not the first white child, born
in Australia. And, strange to tell, she
grew up strong and hardy, though there
was not at that time any newspaper with
a woman’s supplement to give hints on
bringing up baby.
There was quite an international touch
about the Lindfield Music Club’s party
last week. To begin with, it was held
in the home of Latvian Consul Macleod
and his wife. The guest of honor was
Mrs. Pao, wife of China’s Consul-
General. Among the listeners were three
clever Russian dancers, Mrs. Michailovska
and daughters Zaira and Inessa, and
Signor Grandi, a musician from Spain.
Charles Philip, who is director of the
club, played the piano with his usual
brilliance. Leslie McCallum and Arline
Sauer were responsible for a.n Arcadian
interlude on piano and flute, and Marie
Bremner sang like a lark. Mrs. Philip’s
trailing black satin skirt was topped by
an overblouse of rose and silver brocade.
Mrs. Macleod’s Vionnet-like black tulle
had a red rose caught in its cloud of
skirt. Cornelian chiffons cut on almost
classic lines made Mrs. Pao’s frock. Her
earrings were of carved jade. Her mother,
Mrs. Townsend McKee, wore midnight-
blue georgette.
Wal Taylor sends news of the Paris
salon. He did the opening with Aus-
tralia’s sculptor Daphne Mayo, and it
took them two whole days to go around
the miles of wall space. The salon is
staged in the Grand Palace, which has
a glass roof, and they soften the hard
light with silken hangings overhead,
which give the visitor the impression of
being in a huge marquee. The sculpture
is displayed in the centre court, which
is like a lovely garden with its ornamental
trees and beds of gay flowers. There is,
too, a restaurant with a very good
orchestra, and it is the usual thing to
have lunch here and, refreshed, take up
the art-lover’s quest in- the afternoon.
In Rome Wal saw the Vatican Galleries
and Greta Garbo. She was walking along
the Via Venuto leading a magnificent
Russian boarhound. In Paris he ran into
Marlene Dietrich at a private view of a
loan collection from Switzerland. # He
reports her as not so ethereal-looking as
in her films, but having a full cargo of
good looks. At Villers-Bret. he had a
close-up of the Queen’s complexion—
exquisite, and not a sign of make-up.
Pictured here by a Freeman camera
is Mrs. Roy Buckland, president of the
committee which is chasing pound and
penny for the Pink and Black Ball. This
is to help the Industrial Blind Institution,
and committee women aim at collecting
£lOOO. Last year they raised this amount
with the Pastel Ball, and, as they point
out, the prizes, decorations, scenic and
supper arrangements are even better this
year. Japan in cherry-blossom time will be
pallid against the clouds of pink blos-
som that will turn the Trocadero on
October 4 into an enchanted place.
Hundreds of these blossoms will be
made by Nature, thousands by hands
so clever that it’s going to be hard to
know where art begins and nature ends.
Of course, the ball coincides with Race
Week.
Mrs. Harry Hodson, pretty Margaret
Honey that was, arrived with husband
and small sons Nicholas and Anthony
in the Aorangi last week. Husband will
be official recorder to the British Com-
monwealth Relations Conference, which
gives tongue at the Lapstone Hotel from
the sth to the 17th of September. Mrs.
Hodson will remain in Sydney for about
six months visiting mother Mrs. Byron
Beans. From Dunedin in Maoriland
come the Downie Stewart brother and
sister. The Marquess of Lothian is the
British delegation’s leader, and South
Africa, Canada, Ireland, India and New-
foundland will be represented. The
Lionel Curtis couple (he’s a Fellow of
All Souls’, Oxford) are the guests of the
Wilfred Fairfaxes while in Sydney.
By Sunday the entertaining of the
delegates to the British Commonwealth
Relations Conference was in full swing.
The David Maughans gave a lunch-party
at Rose Bay. Some of the delegates
motored out to Miss Macarthur Onslow’s
place at Menangle for lunch and a stroll
about the lovely grounds. In the even-
ing the Philip Bushells gave a party for
all in their Potts Point home.
Last Thursday at the Carlton Ginette
Scamps ran a bridge afternoon to help
with the expenses of the French Alliance’s
music and drama evening. Pretty Mollie
O’Connor, Gloria Cosgrave, Andree
Pelletier, Robin Eakin and Nancy Lewis
were'giving a helping hand, which same
they will do on the great night at the
Con.
That night the curtain will rise to
show a terrace overlooking Florence in
medieval times. Consul de Dardel has
been found to be a real comedy actor,
and even in rehearsals makes the “Bureau
des Idees” very amusing. Bertie Kelly
has dug up songs for Frazer Coss to
sing, written by Marie Antoinette and
Lully, composer of the seventeenth cen-
tury, and one by King Louis XIII. Bertie
himself is playing a work by Couperin.
This is written in tableaux, as it were,
with descriptive programme notes of
each movement, and the work will make
its first public appearance in Sydney.
Mr. Kelly dug the music up in Paris
some years ago.
This is Bobbie Larnach, who goes off
with mother to-morrow in the Strath-
aird. America and Europe will be visited
in leisurely fashion before they return.
Photograph from Montgomery Dunn.
The first objective of the Australian
Women’s Flying Club is to encourage
the provision of reasonably-priced flying
tuition for all air-minded young women.
Betty Mullins, as clear-headed as she is
clear-eyed, is the organiser, and already
the club has its uniform —a dark-blue
suit, a light-blue blouse and a dark tie.
Betty’s idea is to have a company of
girls ready to pilot commercial and medi-
cal ’planes, and carry on such services
should an emergency arise. Already the
club has received 500 applications for
membership. Two hundred girls were
at the first general meeting in the Femi-
nist Club last week. Margaret Adams
is the first president.
The marriage of Flora Danciger, well
known socially in Sydney, and Dr.
Robert F. Paterson, of Macquarie-street,
was celebrated at Brompton Oratory,
Kensington, London, recently. The bride
wore a Lucien Lelong model in the
new shade of deep blue, with a matching
velvet hat trimmed with blue and pink
ostrich-feathers, specially created for the
occasion by Rose Descat. Dr. and Mrs.
Paterson will be staying at Grosvenor
House, Park-lane, prior to their depar-
ture for the U.S.A., where Dr. Paterson
will visit various ear, nose and throat
clinics before leaving on the Mariposa
for Sydney on September 13.
Lord Beauchamp journeyed through
Buckingham Palace the other day, giving
particular attention to the pictures. He
says that George IV. is painted over and
over again by Russell, Hoppner, Lawrence
and Zoffany, and always looks magnifi-
cent. Besides the Gainsborough school
Buckingham Palace has some fine Dutch
pictures: Charles I. by Van Dyck and
My tens, and a Van der Meere and a
De Hooge which must be worth thou-
sands. Incidentally, the coronation chair
and the stools in the throne room fol-
low very closely those of King George
and Queen Mary—red satin with the
royal arms on the back.
Mollie Hollingdale, off to America
last week, will take a look at some of
the children’s libraries and welfare centres
in that country and bring back ideas for
the Children’s Free Library in Dowling-
street. Mollie’s visit to America is really
a holiday one, but she’s the president of
the Dowling-street centre, which is run
by ex-pupils of Loreto and Normanhurst.
The library has its home in a two-storey
terrace house opposite Dalgety’s. The
ground floors are where the books are
housed and the stories told. Here last
week, in the brightly-painted little
room shut from the street and its lower-
ing sky, Maria, Melina, Carmel (“Miss,
we sometimes call her ‘Tinkly-bell’ ’cos
of the concert”) and Silver (a dark-eyed
young man of six) were seated on their
tiny green and red chairs listening to the
storyteller.
Upstairs in the room leading on to a
fragment of balcony Mrs. “Paddy”
Moran was showing older girls how to
make dolls’ clothes. This is always a
preliminary with little girls to making
clothes for themselves. The most-sought
distinction was to be allowed a seat at the
sewing-machine. Mrs. Moran, on a fly-
ing visit from England and her house in
Cambridge, where son Pat is studying
and has just gained his tripos, has brought
with her a whole family of rag dolls
which she made on the voyage out. She
learned this craft in England.
Acting Governor-General Huntingfield
got both laughter and applause for his
speech at the Institute of Journalists'
lunch in the Carlton last week. It is the
custom of the institute to ask each group
of vice-royalty to take a midday snack
with members during its term of office,
and the Huntingfield incident is certainly
among their pleasantest memories. There
was new procedure. The vice-regals,
shrined in a small room out of sight of
the spread table, received the members.
Some women scribes couldn’t go in be-
cause they were sensibly rubber-booted
(the day being the one that paid the
catchment area in full); others made
their bob from a bright cocoon of oiled-
silk coats. Lady Huntingfield had for
support Mrs. Helme Pott, and the two
seemed to enjoy themselves. President
D. J. Stewart and his wife received the
official guests.
There were many visitors seated at the
surrounding tables. Trumpeter Grace
East was among them. Singer Clement
Hosking, newly returned from the
Hebrides, looked as though he might
break into the Gaelic or the Erse at any
moment. Poetess Ivy Moore was having
a birthday. Dame Mary Gilmore was
there ; Mrs. Florence Taylor, too, look-
ing fit subject for Gainsborough’s brush.
P.E.N. Club’s president Elliot Napier
told this Letter that he is off for a pro-
longed holiday in Maoriland. He has
given up his desk in the “Sydney Mail’
office after 15 years. But he will still
write for the “5.M.H.,” and he will now
be able to give more time to his verse-
and essay-writing.
It would seem that Guila Bustabo, the
teen-old violinist, has packed everything
there is of success into her few years.
She could read, write and play a violin
at three. At five she pocketed a scholar-
ship to the Chicago Musical College. At
14 she was hailed in Europe as a star.
Toscanini, Paderewski, Sibelius and Mal-
colm Sargent have given her the accolade
of their praise. She has played with the
principal orchestras of U.S.A. On
Thursday night she will play with Syd-
ney’s Symphony Orchestra in the Town
Hall. She owns some famous violins,
among them a Strad, and a Guarnerius
presented to her by the Baroness Ravens-
dale. Guila’s dark hair is worn in a long
bob, the front in a straight fringe.
Mother is her constant chaperon.
Claudia Beazley came back in the
Otranto last week to be bridesmaid to
sister Joyce, who is dated to become Mrs.
John Hall at the end of this month.
Claudia hasn’t been altogether a butter-
fly during her three years abroad. She
studied singing and languages. Another
bright-faced Australian to return in the
same ship was Joan Hartigan.


Four and a half Million Pounds
is a lot of money!
IT is your security—your warranty that the Manchester
I Unity Oddfellows can meet every obligation imposed
upon it under the National Health Insurance Act—just
as it has met every call on it during its 98 years of
continuous existence as a friendly society in Australia.
Benefits paid in N.S.W.:
Medical attendance. . £84,152
■Sick pay 72,677
■Funeral allowance . . 30,755
Distress gifts . . 9,619
•Hospital fees . . 5,276
Total . . . . . . £202,479
Or £666 for each working day in
the year.
Ssi&l
m
ft
33
35
33
3]
31
3]
33
11
33
33
13
11
31
33
31
11
11
wm
PTPi
11
1J
*"!
11
11
Head Office in N.S.W.:
Manchester Unity Building,
160 Castlereagh St., Sydney
An approved society under the National Health Insurance Act, it offers
you, your family and dependents a service unequalled for its friendly
and neighbourly assistance in your hour of need.
With 1400 branches scattered throughout Australia, embracing a total
membership of over 140,000, and £4,500,000 in funds, the Manchester
Unity suggests that you select it to care for you under the National
Health Insurance Act.
Registration is compulsory for all manual workers without limitation,
and non-manual workers receiving not more than £7 per week. The
Act will become effective on January Ist, 1939. In your own interests
you should select the largest and best society to care for your insurance.
The Manchester Unity is non-sectarian and non-political. It is a society
which has won the confidence of the public and has done more for
the sick and distressed than any other in existence.
The Manchester Unity is a haven of refuge functioning in
the interests of humanity—a friendly society which has
spent a century in rendering the maximum assistance in
sick pay, medical, hospital and funeral benefits to its
members. It not only operates throughout the length
and breadth of Australia—it has branches in all parts of
the British Empire.
To save delay make application to the Manchester Unity
for enrolment forms and full details regarding the benefits
which will accrue to you on becoming a member. Enquire
from the local secretary or direct to C. H. Turtle, A.F.1.A.,
Grand Secretary, Manchester Unity Building, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
w
LON:
Linked to Fellowship —
Bound to Benefit
The Manchester Unity has 55,896 benefit members, 650 branches and £1,627,772 funds in N.S.W.
The following list contains a few of the representatives in the Metropolitan area.
SYDNEY: Head Office, sth Floor, 160 Castlereagh
Street; G. G. Fowler, 96 Bathurst Street; J.
Jamieson, 94 Oxford Street.
ALEXANDRIA: J. B. Fleming, 4 7 Alexander Street.
ANNANDALE: G. H. Law, 3 William Street; R. Pryor,
130 Johnston Street.
ASHFIELD: W. J. Hills, 45 Arthur Street; W. A.
Woolston, 74 Arthur Street; E. Cheel, 40 Queen
Street.
AUBURN: W. J. Bull, 26 Edgar Street.
BLACKTOWN: C. W. Clift, Bruce Street.
BONDI: R. L. Johnston, 198 Birrell Street; A. Turner,
60 Brighton Boulevarde; J. E. Cameron, 1 1
Lamrock Avenue.
BURWOOD & CROYDON: H. J. Hackman, 36
Burwood Road.
CABRAMATTA: R. G. Cooper, John Street.
CAMPBELLTOWN: G. T. G. Rose, 32 Condamine St.
CAMDEN: H. S. Kelloway, Argyle Street.
CAMPERDOWN: M. J. Gibbens, I 16 Australia Street.
CONCORD: J. L. Symons, 3 La Mascotte Avenue;
J. A. Smith, 29 Clermont Avenue.
CONCORD WEST: A. Dawson, 283 Queen Street;
J. W. Doyle, 41 The Drive.
CROYDON: A. Reay, 10 Dalmar Street.
DARLINGTON: W. J. Thelning, 5 Alma Street.
DRUMMOYNE: N. L. Nichols, 6 College Street; J. M.
Doherty, 24 Thornley Street; H. B. Cox, 60
Tranmere Street.
DULWICH HILL: W. N. Head, 75 Abergeldie Street.
EASTWOOD: A. J. Brown, I 6 Stewart Street.
ENFIELD: S. Peterkin, 94 Mitchell Street'.
EPPING: R. Cheeseman, 60 Bridge Street; G. R.
Cottam, 33 Cliff Road.
FAIRFIELD: H. Pearce, Hampton Street.
FIVE DOCK: R. Cottam, 13a King’s Road; S. C. Boyd,
34 Mons Street; A. S. Lee, 63 Garfield Street.
GIRRAWEEN: M. W. Keniry, 9 Band© Road.
GLADESVILLE: H. Lance, 24 Cowell Street.
GLEBE: R. Pryor, 2 I 3 Glebe Road.
GLENFIELD: A. J. Blinman, Post Office.
GRANVILLE: C. C. Vickers, 3 Boundary Street'; A. F.
Anderson, 21 South Street.
GUILDFORD: C. J. Wilson, 29 Belmont Street.
HABERFIELD & ABBOTSFORD: J. G. Zahner, 48
Coranto Street, Abbotsford.
HAZELBROOK & LAWSON: I. Harry, “Goonda,”
Bathurst Road.
HOMEBUSH: F. C. Thomas, 44 Tavistock Road.
HUNTER’S HILL: J. W. Rinaldi, 12 Madeline Street.
KATOOMBA: R. H. Aulsebrook, “Retlaw,” Mort
Street.
KENSINGTON: A. Davidson, 59 Milroy Avenue.
KINGSFORD: S. Alexander, 14 Bunnerong Road; J. H.
Falvey, 58 Rainbow Street; W. H. Bayfield, 22
Bussole Road; F. A. Griffin, 14 Doran Street.
LEICHHARDT & ORANGE GROVE: W. L. Draper,
2 7 Macauley Street; S. C. Boyd, 16 Emmerick
Street; A. S. Lee, 424 Parramatta Road.
LIDCOMBE: S. A. Relph, 13 Rawson Street.
LIVERPOOL: W. A. Steel, Church Street, Moorbank.
MAROUBRA: F. A. Griffin, 14 Doran Street, Kings-
ford; W. Orr, Gale Road; J. Trahair, Wilson
Street.
MASCOT: E. M. Hanley, 98 Sutherland Street.
MERRYLANDS: G. Reus, 9 Warwick Road.
MORTLAKE: D. Parkinson, 15 Tripod Street, Con-
cord East.
NEWTOWN: E. J. Willett, M.U. Hall, Enmore Road.
PADDINGTON: E. Cousins, 18 Campbell Street; G.
Robinson, 6 Windsor Street; L. D. Clarke, 418
Park Road; T. Cannon, 1 7 Hoddle Street.
Branches Everywhere.
PARRAMATTA: T. Watson, 13a Hunter Street.
PENDLE HILL: A. Hood, 98 Stapleton Street.
PENRITH: A. Frew, 352 High Street.
PETERSHAM: R. B. Courtney, 22 Sadlier’s Crescent;
A. S. Lee, 424 Parramatta Road.
RANDWICK & BRONTE: F- R- Lavis, 15 Bayview
Street; F. P. Dowd, 71 Albion Street; S. L. Burn-
ham, 84 Pine Street; T. H. Evans, 32 Centennial
Avenue.
REDFERN: A. Tolano, 3 Madison Street.
REGENT’S PARK & SEFTON: A. W. T. Taylor,
“Thurnel,” Edwin Street.
RICHMOND: N. D. Silk, 100 Windsor Street.
RIVERSTONE: E. Vaughan, Garfield Street.
ROOTY HILL: H. W. Hyatt, Bungalow Road.
ROSE BAY: A. Farr, 3 “Rothsay,” Liverpool Street.
RYDE & WEST RYDE: H. F. Rae, 6 Dickson Avenue;
J. A. Brennan, 20 Foster Street; W. J. Thelning,
24 Hay Street.
RYDALMERE: Mrs. K. M. Kennedy, Euston Street.
STANMORE: E. J. Willett, 4 Surrey Street.
STRATHFIELD: A. E. Bryson, 8 Lloyd George
Avenue; E. Davey, 30 Morwick Street.
SOUTH STRATHFIELD: E. Quinn, 3 Cross
ST. PETERS: R. Wright, 59 Grove Street.
SUMMER HILL: C. H. De Putron, 26 Nowranie Street.
THORNLEIGH: E. G. Bunyan, 1 7 Phyllis Avenue.
WAVERLEY: E. G. Peel, 113 Henrietta Street.
WATSON’S BAY: W. Stone, 1 8 Cliff Street.
WENTWORTH FALLS: J. T. Crawford, Bathurst Road.
WENTWORTHVILLE: F. Gosper, 44 Railway Street.
WILBERFORCE: W. Taylor.
WINDSOR: W. F. Green, 180 Macquarie Street.
WOOLLAHRA: E. G. Peel, Masonic Hall, Queen
Street.
ENROL NOW WITH THE
MANCHESTER UNITY ODDFELLOWS
APPROVED SOCIETY FOR NATIONAL INSURANCE BENEFITS.
. No payments are to be made to this society by the person enrolled.


Personal and Missing Friends.
ESTATE of GEORGE ALFRED CAREY, de-
ceased. JESSIE CAREY, formerly Dyer, nee
Parkinson, who was born in Dunedin, New
Zealand, in 1873, a daughter of Andrew Parkin-
son and Jessie Wilson, and who was married to
the abovenamed deceased on the Bth July,
1904, at Kangaroo Valley, New South Wales, or
anybody knowing her present whereabouts, is
requested to communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Box 7A, G.P.0., Sydney.
K.EFFORD. —Anyone knowing of HERBERT
MEDLEY KEFFORD, formerly employee
Board of Works and resident of Booth Memo-
rial House or Gordon House, communicate
SNOWDEN, NEAVE & DEMAINE, Solicitors,
433 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
DESCENDANTS OR NEXT-OF-KIN
WANTED. To ascertain if you are being
sought, send FULL NAME and Postal Note
2/-. We record 400,000 names. KING & KING,
Record Searchers, 46 Pitt Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. Est. 1910.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1140 of 1938.
BETWEEN AMY ELEANOR HAYES Peti-
tioner
And THOMAS TRELOAR HAYES Re-
spondent.
TO THOMAS TRELOAR HAYES.
TAKE NOTICE that the said AMY
ELEANOR HAYES has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Fifteenth
day of November One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-eight and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of August,
ad. 1938.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
H. E. McINTOSH & ADRIAN, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 27 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Lord Mayor's Ball was a much
earlier fixture than usual this year, tak-
ing place at the end of August instead
of in Cup Week. For three days pre-
viously the Town Hall hummed with
preparations and decorations. The stage
was overgrown with a garden and a
stretch of moorland, while the organ
loft dissolved into a painted landscape
of Castle Campbell in a district of moun-
tain crags and fields of heather. Groves
of firs and bamboos came to life around
the balcony, flowers covered the balus-
trade, and the south gallery was heavily-
timbered forest country. Congestion was
greatly relieved by the opening of entrance
doors from Collins-street. Supper was in
five sittings, and there were several buffet
bars, one behind the red-and-white blinds
of the porch, another under the canvas of
the roof garden (it was a balmy night
with freshness and no icicles in the air)
and a third in the Council Chamber
under the mournful or disapproving gaze
of ancestors among aldermen and coun-
cillors.
The host and hostess, the Lord
Mayoral Campbells, arrived bright and
early (well before nine o’clock) and made
their way to the foyer to welcome the
vice-regal party. An imposing figure
among many imposing uniforms was that
of Lieut.-General Squires (whose wife is
now on her way to Australia). Generals
J. L. Whitham and O. F. Phillips were
there with their better halves, Mrs. Whit-
ham in black a-glitter with sequins and
Mrs. Phillips melting into pink and
ospreys, the fronds of which reminded
Flight-Lieut. Eaton that spare ostrich-
feathers are going to be useful to him as
flies on his coming trout-fishing holiday.
Among several women who wore lilac
successfully was Mrs. Paul Fogarty. Vi
Tivey was among those who looked well
in white. In golden-glow satin was Mrs.
Ron Nettlefold, whose husband, Lieut.
Nettlefold, was one of the evening’s aides
to the Lieut.-Governor. A Westralian
girl present was Peggy Rose, who is
training as a nurse at the Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital, and is now spending
part of her annual holidays in Mel-
bourne. Also among younger folk
noticed were the Tom Luxtons, Mrs.
Luxton in lame gown and with an orchid
in her dark hair.
Our Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
call themselves “home folk,” and their
taste in the arts includes a spot of senti-
ment about old tunes and old dances;
hence the introduction to the programme
of half a dozen old-times in the form of
valetas, barn dances and Parma waltzes
—and the majority of the people present
seemed to know how to do them. Mrs.
Campbell has leanings towards being a
feminist, and there was an all-feminine
orchestra, which played again on the fol-
lowing night for the children’s ball.
One of the most appreciated functions
ever held by invitation at the Town Hall
was the children’s fancy-dress dance
given by the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress on the night following the civic
ball. Even the Town Hall staff (through
long association indifferent to the glitter
of diamonds, and taking concerts by
world-famous artists in the stride of their
day’s work) watched the proceedings from
choice, with interest in every line of their
expressions. Most of the thousand young
folk present were representatives of
public and secondary schools and of the
various wards of the City Council and
municipalities and were aged between
14 and 21, but some diminutive figures
looked a lot younger.
Mrs. Campbell wore a bustled nine-
teenth-century frock of Campbell tartan
taffeta, but the Lord Mayor decided to
go in his knee-breeches and long fur-
trimmed robe. All the children knew how
to dance, and there were no forlorn little
souls sitting alone in corners. “Jolly
Millers” proved a good way of mixing
up the boys and girls. Fourteen-year-old
twins David and Margaret Campbell
proved themselves as excellent host and
hostess in rounding up the strays and
performing introductions. The grand
march was a great success, well stepped
and led by a piper. Passing the dais the
children bowed and curtsied to the
Mayoral pair, who started off by recipro-
cating with bows for each couple, but
after the first few hundred the strain
became too severe, and they managed to
make each greeting serve fours and sixes.
A buffet in the Collins-street annexe
was a popular spot where the golden
daffodils on the tables reflected the
depth of the tall jugs of orange-juice,
and there were all manner of bottles of
fizzy drinks. Supper, its highlights ice-
cream and “conversation sweets,” was
another buffet in the Lower Hall. Period
and historical eostumes were particularly
popular. There was a hunting set and a
Scottish set Hitler was there, but not
Shirley Temple—in fact, the movie folk
like Laurel and Hardy and Charlie
Chaplin were notable by their absence.
Pat Stillman was Mary Queen of Scots,
and her sister Pam a masked Lilac
Domino. Pat Fethers made an elegant
Gainsborough lady. Wyland Fethers was
one of Wellington’s soldiers, and his
cousin Peter had an easy costume —just
a cape, a topper and a cane, and he
became a magician. Derek Mackenzie
and Jean Hill were a Tyrolean pair, Rod
Hill and Dudley Wilkinson Scottish lads
and Jean Rigby a fuzzy-headed gipsy.
When the Lennon Raws couple went
off to England earlier in the year with
their daughters Margaret and Dorothy
they had no idea that Margaret would
not be returning home with them in
October. Romance stepped all un-
heralded into her young life at a recent
cocktail party given in London by Mar-
garet Holden, of Adelaide. Soon after-
wards her engagement was announced,
and last week she was married at St.
James’s, Piccadilly, to the cause of the
cancellation of her return steamer ticket,
an Englishman, Cecil Millbourn. Matri-
monial celebrations took the form of a
late-afternoon party at the Savoy. . The
first home of the newly-wedded couple
will be a flat in Carlton House-terrace.
Bride’s photograph by Broothorn.
Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh’s eye for color
and arrangement, on this occasion with
yellow as its keynote, made a joyous
scheme of decoration in Menzies’ lounge
for the mannequin parades in aid of the
Lady Foster Free Kindergarten. Mrs.
Sleigh procured thousands of daffodils,
arranged them as a thickly-growing her-
baceous border just below the edge of
the temporary platform stretching down
the length of the lounge, and grouped
them in a large, panel as part of the
backcloth for the main stage. The presi-
dent, Mrs. Geoffrey Walker, and the Lady
Foster committee have organised these
parades in past years, and so everything
ran easily on the oiled wheels of experi-
ence. No men turned up at the crowded
afternoon sessions, which included tea in
the dining-room after an hour and a half
of fashions, but a number of masculine
onlookers were seen at the 5.30 parade,
which was an addition to the second day.
Matching the daffodils were the usher-
ettes, Betty and Lorna Bradford, Mar-
garet and Rosemary Wright, Margaret
and Joan Leitch, Joyce Hayden-Smith
and Elinor Willis, a fetching octet in
skirts of pleated black chiffon and
waistcoat blouses of yellow organdie.
They sported posies of daffodils at their
waists.
As varied in type as the 18 mannequins
who walked the boards were the clothes
they displayed, devastatingly feminine
hats carrying flowers, veils or ruchings of
muslin, and interesting gowns for all
hours of the afternoon and evening.
Among the mannequins were Mrs. Geoff
Smith, experienced in the art of walk-
ing in the best manner to show off
clothes; Nancy Griffiths, tall and parti-
cularly stately in an all-white slimly-fit-
ting evening gown ; Mrs. Douglas Car-
negie, a brunette who wears black well
and adds a camellia to her hair as just
the right finish; Beverley Slaney, very
graceful as she went down the room in a
cloud of pearl-grey chiffon; Barbara
Hayden-Smith, wearing caramel lace or
out for the evening in an emerald-green
gown with a waft of dull-blue and clover-
pink scarf; Athalia Cuming, in a clever
daytime dress of spotty foulard, and Pen
Stead wearing black and very wide steel-
bead-studded shoulder straps just to show
that shoestring hook-ups haven’t the last
and only word about shoulder supports.
A Broothorn camera pictures here
Betty Pounder, the promising young
ballet student who is going abroad next
week in the .Strathaird as a result of win-
ning the British Ballet Organisation’s
scholarship for Victoria. Betty (or Eliza-
beth as she will henceforward be called)
will travel with Bettine Brown, the
scholarship winner for N.S.W., and both
girls will be chaperoned by friends of
Madame Louise Kay. Betty, whose
father is a returned soldier who lost his
health as a result of the Great War, is
17, has been learning dancing since she
was five at the Denerio school, and re-
ceived coaching for her exams, from
Eunice Weston. Her steamer fare has
been raised by voluntary contributions,
and there will be a few pounds over for
pocket money and cotton frocks in the
tropics. The girls’ first public appear-
ance overseas will be in Edinburgh on
October 24, the beginning of a provincial
tour of one of Espinosa’s ballet com-
panies.
Last week at a five-o’clock tea-party
in the boardroom of the hospital the
machinery was set in motion bright and
early for St. Vincent’s Ball, to be
held in the Town Hall on Cup Eve. The
wide, polished table with its hand-made
lace cloth and crystal bowls of lilies,
poppies, camellias and aromatic boronia
looked like a spring poem, a compliment
to the weather out of doors, for it’s been
a week when all hearts rejoiced at the
thought of an early summer. Tall jugs
of orange-juice made a further emphasis
of color among the tea things. President
of the committee, Mrs. Len Buxton, wore
a silver-fox cape and saucy little flat-
crowned hat with her frock of black
crepe, lightened with a white frontal
panel. Mrs. J. J. Daly was in black ; so
was Mrs. W. J. Burston, who received
a complement to the camellia in her
lapel in the shape of a sprig of boronia
presented by the Mother Rectress “for
old times’ sake.”
In a husbands-and-wives group were
the Ken Hadleys (Mrs. Hadley in black
with fuchsia-colored shoes, gloves and
bag and an Edwardian veil for
her flat little hat), the Kevin O’Deas
and the Harry Sinns. Veronica Early
was a smart figure in her tailored
black coat. A bunch of men who gravi-
tated together along one wall included
Dr. F. Blackall, McColl Jones, Leo
Tobin, W. J. Winter, Cr. D. McDonald
and J. T. Wilkins, the fire chief who
used to feel as heroic as Ned Kelly when
he found himself in a crowd of women,
but who now in doughty middle age
scarcely registers embarrassment even
when he’s the only man present. In a
small anteroom next to the boardroom a
new piece of furniture, a handsome
tapestry fire screen, was noticed and
admired. But its challenging design of a
crusader on his charger wasn t an addi-
tion to the hospital. It was Mrs. J. J.
Daly’s handwork, and had been left there
for her to collect.
“Crescent Moon” lived through a
somewhat forlorn week’s span at the
Princess, where it was produced for
charities. Gone as far away as last year’s
leaves is the exploded idea that shows
will draw crowds for the social weight
of the names in the cast. Film-fed audi-
ences demand first-class acting, singing
and dancing, and they don’t care a saxo-
phone blast of jazz whether the folk on
the stage have addresses in Toorak or
Dudley Flats. The large cast and the
unwieldy committee made co-operation
difficult, which fact was no doubt dis-
couraging for Denis Gerity, who wrote
the music of the operetta, Dighton Bur-
bidge, responsible for lyrics and book,
Slapoffski, who conducted, Paul Plunket.
who produced, the Basil Buffer Murphys
and a number of others concerned.
Perhaps this musical piece, interesting
through its all-Australian origin, might
be born again some day and live longer
with more experienced people playing in
it. Much of the music is tuneful,
choruses were good and several settings
were fuff of color and movement, but
some members of the cast were out of
place, and the prospects of the “legit."
would be happier if they would stay on
the side of the footlights they are most
familiar with.
Among farewells to French organist
Mile. Rende Nizan was a morning-tea
on Saturday at the International Club.
Mile. Rende leaves for Adelaide and
Perth this week, and will play in India
before she gets back to France in
December, just a year after the com-
mencement of her present tour. She is
much too young and charming to be re-
ticent about her age, but she won’t give
it away except by saying that her brother
is 21 and she is “older —unfortunately.”
Brother Jean, who came to the party with
a dew-spotted pink rose in his button-
hole, is very serious about his job of
being his sister’s protector. She seldom
goes anywhere without him and never
accepts invitations unless he is included.
Whereas doctors often marry nurses
they seldom undertake a matrimonial
venture with a chemist (perhaps because
they don’t come in contact through their
work). Desmond Niall and Mollie
Malone are exceptions—their romance
and interest in things scientific culminated
last week in their marriage and a festive
luncheon for friends and relatives at
Menzies, which commenced with cock-
tails round about twelve, continued to
coffee at three and good-byes at a few
minutes to four. After a month’s honey-
moon the couple are embarking for over-
seas, for Dr. Niall means to do post-
graduate work abroad.
Members of the Victoria League
Club were transported back to the
eighteenth century when J. S. MacDonald
gave an address on the pictures of that
period. Illustrations came from a slide
machine operated by Mrs. Guy Bakewell
and Miss Chomley—it was Miss Chomley
who lent most of the copies of pictures
shown. Some were postcards, others art
photographs and a few were cut out of
illustrated papers, and they came through
very successfully on to the waff screen in
the darkened room. Among those present
were Mrs. Cairns Officer, all in grey;
Mrs. Y. V. Kimpton, in a caramel-toned
ensemble ; Mrs. Ken Mac Lean and Mrs.
John Pringle. A new member, Mrs.
C. A. Griffiths, of Berwick, was parti-
cularly interested when among the
Romneys a “Portrait of Mr. Griffiths”
was shown, for the subject of the original
was a great-uncle of her husband’s.


HONGKONG
Wonderful holiday four to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BURNS,PHILP
S. CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: 87901
w*
m>&
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N-Z.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
For Anthropologists Only
“Mataranka”: Hooray for the Mc-
Ewen expedition! It has crossed Aus-
tralia 100 years after Leichhardt, and
has deduced, with the help of “a leading
pastoralist,” that there existed in an
earlier time in the North a race higher
in culture than the present native inhabi-
tants. The expedition’s anthropologist
discovered implements which “come
under the head of pestles and mortars,”
and he thinks that if they are identical
with those discovered in other places
they might prove a very early link with
Asian and South Pacific migrations.
I don’t know what further evidence is
needed to prove the course' of these
migrations—Kalkadoon has at least 50
words which are identifiable in Turkish,
Tamil and Chinese.
And are utensils like pestles and mor-
tars much evidence? The country was
overrun for decades with prospecting Ah
Hops, whose dollypots so took the fancy
of Black Brother that they and similar
articles suitable for doing a bit of seed-
grinding were soon to be found in a
good many camps.
Many years ago—also with the help
of “a leading pastoralist”—l examined a
relic on the vast shimmer of Boulia Plain
which seemed to suggest that the desert
had accommodated a more recent race
than the abos., and of even a higher cul-
ture than the people of the pestle-and-
mortar age. It sent out rays like a light-
house from afar, as any prismatic object
will do in that blinding country. Ap-
proaching, we discovered it to be a dark-
green, translucent object several inches
long and cylindrical, tapering sharply at
one end to an orifice which communi-
cated with the interior, in which we could
discern nothing but hot air.
A slightly pungent odor hung about it,
and there was strong evidence that it had
erstwhile had a colored label on one
side and that the orifice had once been
closed by a cork or stopper.
That it had been owned by somebody
fairly high in the scale of civilisation
was shown by a series of irregular tracks
of some booted but slightly unco-ordi-
nated human leading from it towards the
King River, where, no doubt, the tribe
had had its bora ring.
We decided not to follow them, as our
anthropologist deduced, from the spac-
ing of the spoor, that the native who
made them was in a highly savage and
soreheaded condition, and that he had
run out of the only inducement which
would have made it worth while to meet
him.
Tennant Creek
G. A. Graefe: “In the Centre—Now”
(B. 13/7/’3B) gives a'very wrong idea of
Tennant Creek and its mining possibili-
ties.
It is mentioned that in the Eldorado
mine, at a depth of 100 ft. in a drive, the
lode cut out into an absolute blank. That
is true, but it is not mentioned that at a
greater depth the ore-body was as strong
as before, with very high values.
As regards the “abandoned show”
called the Pinnacles, this has never been
abandoned, and, although some hundred
tons of up to 30dwt. ore has been pro-
duced, no 30 tons of lOoz. ore has ever
come out of this show. But the Wheal
Doria had one parcel of 25 tons which
returned 13oz. over the plates and 7oz.
in the sands.
All gold does not occur in tough iron-
stone lodes. Large amounts of it have
been produced from soft schist forma-
tions. I have seen a piece of schist
crumbled in the hand and then the
gangue blown away with the breath,
leaving a flush of gold all over the hand.
There are no lodes on Tennant, as the
term is understood elsewhere. The gold
occurs in lens formations both in the Iron
and the schists. There are no defined
walls or boundaries, which admittedly
make it difficult to work ; but there are
great numbers of these gold-bearing
lenses, and some of them are very largef
Tennant Creek has an unusual type of
ore occurrence, but when these are cor
rectly understood it will produce sur-
prisingly large quantities of gold.
The Home of Bullion at Barrow Creek
is mainly a copper deposit; the silver-
lead is relatively unimportant.
The S.A. party which has been look-
ing for Leichhardt’s bones in the Simp-
son Desert found no bones identifiable
as such, but it did find “a worn and
blackened 1841 threepenny bit, a
George the Third half-sovereign (1817),
an iron packsaddle ring, highly corroded,
the crown of a human tooth, and the
charcoal remains of a fire,” all in the
same place. The party is returning to
Adelaide with “an open mind.”
* * * *
“Phildort”: There was a reference to
the Darwin library in B. 20/7/’3B. The
library is open on week days from 9 a.m.-
12.45 p.m., 3-5.30 p.m, 7.30-9.30 p.m.,
and on Saturdays from 9 a.m.-12.45
p.m. To student and casual reader
alike it is useful. I strolled in an<j
asked for copies of all reports made
on the N.T. since 1919 and got them
almost immediately. Press clippings
on all matters referring to the Ter-
ritory are pasted in large files. In the
reference section are, among other
volumes, the latest Britannic as, Every-
“I wish you'd speak to her, boss; she hignores ME.”
man's, the Australian Encyclopedia,
Whitaker’s, the Australian Who’s Who
and the Australian Authors and Artists
Handbook, There are pretty near 100
volumes of history on Europe, among
them a couple of copies of Gunther’s
Inside Europe and The Last Days of
Austria, by Dr. Schuschnigg. As for public
appreciation of the service, in July 672
persons borrowed 1466 books (fiction
1144, travel 91, biography 92, miscel-
laneous 139), which is fair enough in a
town of roughly 1900 whites. Fifty
books are lent fortnightly to Katherine,
200 miles south; the hospital at Pine
Creek, 150 miles away, is catered for;
and on the 320-mile stretch between Dar-
win and Birdum fettlers are supplied
weekly with two books each. Boyd Sel-
man took over on May 23, 1938 ; and
since then subscribers have jumped from
134 to 262. He has over 3000 books,
and aims at establishing a complete N.T.
reference library.
* * * *
“Kiai”: Papua’s first cathedral is
slowly rising under the hands of native
workers at Dogura, the head mission
station in the nor’-east. Unlike many
another tropical “cathedral,” it will be
an imposing structure, which many an
Anglican community in an Australian
rural city would be glad to own. It will
be finished in 1940.
* * * *
“Gain”: Looking at the new native
police uniforms in New Guinea one
wonders at the stupid indifference of
officialdom to the 'picturesque. When
Australia inherited the crack native police
force trained by the Germans they were
one of the smartest and most imposing
corps in the Pacific, and so they con-
tinued under the military regime. They
wore their native fuzz of hair with a peak-
less cap and a colored lava lava, serrated
at the bottom, which had an air all its
own. To see those fellows do an about-
turn and come to attention with a swirl of
kilt was impressive. Now the force has
been put into tight khaki shirts and
shorts, with heavy military belts at the
waistline, and every native cop terminates
at the top in a peaked cap like a bands-
man’s, worn on a cropped head. About
the only part of the original uniform left
is the bare feet.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: On September 4 Moresby
will celebrate the 50th anniversary of
the annexation of Papua. As far back
as 1876 the N. S. Wales Government
urged the Colonial Office to take over
the unoccupied part of the island, but
the matter became live politics only when
Thomas Mcllwraith, of Queensland, sent
H. M. Chester, Resident at Thursday
Island, to hoist the flag on the site of
Moresby. The British Government re-
fused to endorse this action, but the
Australian and Maoriland Governments
pressed their point and a protectorate
was declared in 1884. In 1888 William
MacGregor was commissioned to annex
the territory. Papua will issue special
stamps for the occasion. A week after-
wards Rabaui will have reason to re-
meraber the twenty-fourth anniversary of
the landing of Australian troops at Bita
p a [, a
v * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: I’d like to
have had some of those too-old-at-
forty lads with me when I watched
J. W. Anger win the tree-felling com-
petition at Brisbane Royal. He beat
H. B. Smith, Tasmania’s youthful and
professional best, by only a stroke, but
the southern lad, still in his early twen-
ties, won last year at Sydney Royal Show
and again at Goulburn—a first-rate seed-
ing for axemen. Anger is a fine name
for a good meat-fed butcher, which is
what M is.
* * * *
“Caliiungal”: I find myself wishing
that modern principles of gentleness had
been tried on the Central Queensland
child in my misspent youth—principles
enunciated by Education Director Ed-
wards, by a lady doctor (she thinks the
cane a refuge of teachers who cannot
maintain discipline), and by a house-
keepers’ association matron whose
dictum it is that the cane warps the
child mind and gives it an inferiority
complex. The shining example of my
class in Mt. Morgan, where restoration
of the old “brutalising” regime is being
suggested by teachers, was a Geordie
about 7ft. through and with biceps like
a gangster’s roll of greenbacks. Once
when unwonted fatigue predisposed our
headmaster to gentleness, Geordie
grabbed him by the forelock and poured
ink into his ear. The last time I saw
Geordie was on a Chinese bund, exer-
cising his authority as a Customs official
over several hundred rioting Chinese.
He was armed with a riding crop, and
he seemed to be enjoying himself,
* * * *
“ Dick Tafone”: Brisbane's Govern-
men, bureaucra has £or , , been
~3 , •
annoyed because country shire councils
fail frequently to make their books
balance and put forward all sorts of
excuses. Dingo scalps and heads of
pest-species of birds form a special
example of such irregularities. Hitherto
the examining officers from Brisbane
have had to rest content with a mere
statement of the numbers on which out-
lay has been incurred. Brisbane has
decided that it will not stand such non-
sense any longer, and has decreed that
all such articles must be kept until the
examining officer has checked them, and
then be destroyed in his presence. Now
shire clerks are contemplating a strike —
certainly not a sit-down one-—if they are
to be expected to pass summer months
in the presence of an office safe full of
decomposing credit items without even
a free issue of gas masks.
* * * *
“Zedo”: The Brisbane Show finished
with a total attendance of 361,000, and
though cattle prices were low farm
machinery and general trade was the
heaviest on record. One firm reported
that its implement sales were 40 p.c.
ahead of last year. The radio and
motor-trade boomed also. Next year
promises to be a good year for Queens-
land, provided wool prices take a normal
course.


*OR Tffg
empire’s millions
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandulai
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
ĵ
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES
Negative Feedback P.-P.
Amplifiers.
Push-pull operation should be applied
to obtain the highest efficiency of beam
tetrode valves as output audio stages.
When negative feedback has been
applied to push-pull amplifiers, there has
been in many cases a tendency for the
phase of feedback to change sufficiently
to become positive and cause free oscil-
lation at some supersonic frequency.
Owing to the difficulties in the produc-
tion of a special transformer which can
be designed to eliminate the trouble,
further attention has been given to the
problem by Radiotron engineers, who
now recommend very simple yet per-
fectly stable circuits using both 6V6Gs
and 6L6Gs in push-pull output stage.
Phase shifts in various parts of the
circuit have been responsible for most
of the troubles attending feedback when
applied to more than one stage. By using
6V6G amplifier with feedback over
three stages.
a feedback network with negligible phase-
shift it is possible to feed back more
voltage without risk of instability.
Screen Injection.
It has been found that the screen grid,
of a resistance-coupled pentode stage is
a very useful point at which to inject
a feedback voltage. Because a positive
increment in screen voltage results in an
increase in plate current, with a conse-
quent negative change of plate voltage,
there is a phase reversal in the feedback
over the valve itself. When the feedback
voltage is taken from the load of the
output valve there must be another phase
reversal between the plate of the pen-
tode voltage amplifier and the grid of the
output stage so that the feedback voltage
will be out of phase with the input.
This phase reversal may well be pro-
vided by a phase-splitting stage where
push-pull output is employed. As there
is some gain between the screen and plate
of the resistance-coupled stage, and a loss
from grid to plate in the phase-splitter,
the actual feedback factor at the grid
of the output valve must be divided by
the resultant gain over the two stages in
order to find the fraction of the output
voltage to be fed to the screen.
The amplifier arrangement is there-
fore a first stage consisting of a resistance-
coupled pentode, a second stage triode
phase-splitter and a final push-pull stage,
feedback being taken from the plate
circuit of the final stage to the screen
grid of the first stage.
Practical Design.
The circuit diagram shows an 8.5-watt
amplifier, where the first stage is a
Radiotron 6J7G, with a screen to plate
gain of 7.5, followed by a 6J7G used as a
triode phase-splitter with a stage gain
of 0.9. Less than 3 p.c. second harmonic
and negligible higher order harmonic dis-
tortion is present in the output over a
frequency range of 30 to 10,000 cycles.
Power supply is required to deliver 265
volts at 77ma. to 93rpa., and, since ex-
tremely good regulation is not essential,
any ordinary rectifier and filter arrange-
ment may be used.
For higher outputs 6L6Gs can be
used to provide 32 watts output. Power
supply then needed will be 425 volts at
186 ma. to 211 ma. Bias resistor will be
200 ohms instead of the 165 ohms used
for the 6V6Gs. Self-bias is satisfactory
for 250-volt operation, with a cathode
resistor of 165 ohms, but is not permis-
sible with 300-volt operation unless the
operating conditions are chosen so as to
avoid excessive dissipation under no-
signal conditions.
V. C.
Giant American B.C. Station.
G.E.C.’s new station, WGY, in
Schenectady, New York, will soon be
radiating a 50-kilowatt signal. A verti-
cal radiator,
625 ft. high, will
greatly increase
the strength of
signals over the
whole country.
This steel struc-
ture is only 9ft.
square and 20in.
in diameter at
the base, where a
porcelain insu-
lator takes the
whole weight. It
isolates the “live”
tower from the
ground, for the
entire tower, lad-
der and plat-
forms, is the
active aerial, or radiator. The tower
is held in position by eight massive steel
guy lines, four attached at the 250 ft.
level and four at 500 ft. Each line is
broken up in conductive length by seven
strain insulators, to prevent any absorp-
tion of radiation from the aerial. The
complete aerial, with the ground system,
covers 20 acres, and over 13 miles of
heavy copper ribbon are buried 18in.
under the ground, radiating to a distance
of 625 ft. from the base of the tower.
At the top of the tower a 1000-watt
flasher beacon will give warning to avia-
tors, and in addition there will be con-
stantly glowing lights at different levels.
A structure even larger than this U.S.A.
example is now nearing completion for
the new 2FC station at Liverpool,
N. S. Wales, but there is a vast differ-
ence in the power of the new WGY,
which has 50,000 watts.
D. B. K.
Mechanical Television.
There are several mechanical tele-
vision systems in use in Europe, the
most important the Scophony system, a
convincing demonstration of which was
recently given in London broadcasting
the trooping of the color.
The Scophony method embodies a
high-definition mechanical-optical system.
A receiver was set up in a store in Ken-
sington, London, with a screen measuring
6ft. by sjft. Although such a screen is
small in comparison with the usual cinema
sheet, it is bigger than is used with the
cathode-ray receiver systems, which have
picture-size limitations. For practically
the whole of the transmission period
of an hour and a quarter the picture re-
mained perfectly steady, and when a
frame slipped it locked in again almost
immediately without any kind of manual
control. The picture was very bright.
Back projection was used, with a 10ft.
throw. The hall was not in perfect
darkness, the brightness of the picture
rendering this unnecessary.
The entire Scophony apparatus occu-
pies a space of roughly 12ft. square at
the back of the screen. A week previous
to this demonstration the Scophony Co.
had given a demonstration of the Derby
transmission with conspicuous success,
and the results were such that home re-
ceivers in this system will be available
to the public at the 1938 Radiolympia
exhibition.
D. B. K.
Ashbox Midget Results.
R.K., Longwood, S.A. writes of this
small receiver described in B. 15/6/’3B:
“You should be congratulated on this
very remarkable receiver. The perform-
ance under test is simply amazing. The
use of the Sirufer iron-cored coils was
a good decision, and some idea of what
is possible with a small receiver using
coils of this type can be obtained when
I refer to a single-valve receiver l re-
cently made with home-made coils
wound with 9/41 Litz on Sirufer. That
little job will receive stations in all States
on an indifferent aerial. A battery- or
vibrator-powered version of the Ash-
box Midget would be welcomed by many
constructors.”
The Ashbox Midget was designed
by Mr. G. Bilks, of Reco Radio, 9 Royal-
arcade, Sydney. Because of the excep-
tional performance, it is a useful type
of small midget to have on hand for
reception at all times.
D. B. K.
Powerful New Dutch
Broadcaster.
A new transmitter is being erected by
the Philips Co. at Jaarsveld, 10 miles
south-west of Utrecht, Holland. Carrier-
wave power will be 125 kilowatts, with
four large water-cooled lOOkw. transmit-
ting valves in the output stage. Care
Example of a self-radiating aerial tower.
This was erected by Philips for a broad-
casting station in Rio de Janeiro.
has been taken to eliminate distortion in
the modulator system, it being designed
with inverse feed-back principles. Be-
cause of the high power, an interlocking
system is provided so that the different
voltage sources can be switched oh only
in correct order, thus preventing damage
to the transmitter and protecting the
operator. Control and supervision of
the transmitter will be effected from a
control table in the centre of the trans-
The insulator at the base of a self-radiat-
ing tower erected by the Philips Co. at
Rio de Janeiro.
mitter hall. The station will use a self-
radiating tower, the advantages of this
type of aerial system being now well
realised. It will be one of the most
modern transmitting installations in
Europe.
Radiotips.
“Ex-G”: Sometimes it is necessary to
increase the size of a variable condenser
spindle to fit a dial or ganging mechan-
ism in which the hole size is too large.
Many dials are fitted with fin. split bush-
ings, whereby a jin. condenser shaft can
be fitted to the fin. hole in the dial drive.
These bushings may be mislaid, and if
an adaptor is not handy the job is likely
to be held up. Illustrated is a simple,
method of enlarging a condenser spindle.
It is first cleaned with emery-cloth and
then bound with bare copper wire of
suitable gauge. The whole of the wire is
then flooded with solder and a liberal
dose of flux. Sufficient heat will be
needed to ensure that the solder “takes”
to the spindle as well as the wire. The
spindle may be a little too big after such
treatment, but it is a simple matter to
file it down to secure a good fit.
* * * *
“Querex”: Where air-spaced coils of
fairly large diameter are needed for use
in experimental transmitters: they are
usually made by winding them over strips
of celluloid on a removable wooden
former, afterwards fixing the strips
securely in place with cellulose cement.
Another method of ensuring rigidity in
such coils is illustrated. The coil turns
are fastened together by double pieces
of twine passed over and under the alter-
nate turns so that each turn has one
twine over it and one under. Turns are
kept apart by the crossing of the twine.
After a coil has been made in this
manner the twine can be soaked in insu-
lating varnish, and after such treatment
will be quite as effective as one made up
with celluloid strips.
In Next Issue:
The Regenerative Super-Three.
This receiver is an interesting
type of small all-wave superhet
using three valves and rectifier for
A.C. operation. It can be used
without alteration to the circuit,
other than exclusion of the power
pack, from a six-volt accumulator,
with a Radiokes VB25 unit for
vibrator - power operation. Coil
switching is incorporated; the
short-wave range covering from 15
to 100 metres, plus the regular
broadcast range. A useful feature
is that of continuous bandspread.
The receiver will be described in
detail, with point-to-point wiring
instructions to suit the beginner.
The AVO Valve Tester.
Conditions closely simulating the load
and normal operating requirements of
radio valves are best for satisfactory
tests. The English AVO Co. has pro-
duced a tester of radically different type
to the ordinary emission type. It reads
the mutual conductance on a 6in. scale.
Any valve of English, American or Con-
tinental origin can be examined with a
very high degree of accuracy. With the
exception of rectifiers and diodes, all
valves are tested by mutual conductance,
and the scale reading can, without any
calculations, be referred to the valve
manufacturer’s rated figures.
Although each AVO tester is supplied
with a valve chart, this is not essential.
All that is necessary is to know the


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney,
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly
including special annual number- the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly
advance of the times.
and keep in
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
Serving ALL of
WESTRALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
MORE 5-METRE DX
RECORDS.
Current issue of “Break-in,”
official organ of the N.Z.A.R.T.L.,
reports that Mr. P. A. Morrison,
of Wellington, logged the American
W6ENC on telephony, calling “CQ
DX 56mc.” at QSAS R 4, and
copied VK2NO (experimental
station of D. B. Knock, The Bul-
letin’s radio editor) for an hour
on C.W. at QSAS. This makes the
first time that an American signal
has been heard and identified on
five metres across the Pacific, and
the third time VK2NO has been
heard across the Tasman.
An INTERESTING and
LUCRATIVE CAREER for
Ambitious Youths.
RADIO RADIO RADIO
Complete THEORETICAL and PRACTICAL
instruction for RADIO ENGINEERS, TECH-
NICIANS (P.M.G. Broadcast Station Operators’
Certificate), OPERATORS (P.M.G. Commercial
and Aircraft Operators’ Certificate), RADIO
SERVICE MECHANICS, TALKING-PICTURE
OPERATORS.
Preliminary theoretical instruction by correspondence,
then practical tuition on standard commercial stations
at the Marconi School of Wireless and A.W.A. Radio
Centres.
Practical instruction for all courses is available at
the Sydney School. Melbourne School trains Marine
and Aircraft Wireless Operators only.
Write, call or ’phone for 44-page illustrated
prospectus.
MARCONI SCHOOL OF
WIRELESS.
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY - - 8W2211
163 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - - V 4161
Conducted under the auspices of Amalgamated
Wireless (A/sia), Ltd., Australia’s national wireless
organisation.
"Why don't you go down to the trading-post and swap your
tom-tom for one of these ?”
normal electrode voltages, type —pen-
tode, tetrode, etc. —and the mutual con-
ductance rating. For the benefit of the
non-technical user the ma.-v. control
may be adjusted to the normal mutual
conductance scale, and the meter will
then show on a colored scale the con-
dition of the valve as compared with the
ma.-v. setting. This indicates whether
the valve is good or needs replacement.
The instrument will test diodes and
rectifiers under normal conditions, indi-
vidual electrode systems in multi-purpose
valves and meter-scale measurement of
insulation between cathode and heater
whilst the valve is hot. The resistance
scale is calibrated from 0-10 megohms
and may be used for testing high-resist-
ance leaks in condensers, transformers,
etc. Curves of individual valves may be
plotted.
Heater voltages are from 2 to 40 volts,
variable plate voltages from 80 to 250
volts, screen voltages from 60 to 250 volts
and grid voltages are automatically con-
trolled and balanced for accurate mutual
conductance measurement. The conven-
tional neon lamp is provided for ele-
ment shorts, but the special method em-
ployed eliminates the troublesome neon
glow due to stray capacities of wiring
and switching.
The AVO engineers have overcome the
problems of obsolete valves by using a
universal socket tray to plug into the
main meter unit as illustrated. Even in
the remote possibility of the tray now
provided becoming out of date, a new
and inexpensive tray can be fitted by
merely plugging in to the main unit. The
tester illustrated works entirely from the
240-volt A.C. mains and requires no bat-
teries of any kind. It is ready for testing
any valve immediately it is unpacked.
Sole Australian igent is Alan Crook
Electrical Co., 3 Barrack-street, Sydney,
from which firm price and any further
particulars can be ascertained.
Short-wave Handbooks.
There is no end to the amount of
short-wave constructional literature avail-
able these days, and it is rare, outside
those publications catering for the ad-
vanced amateur transmitter, to find any-
thing with really new ideas. Two hand-
books that are exceptions to the rule
come from the
Popular Book Cor-
poration, 99 Hud-
son - street, New
York Short-wave
Radio Quiz Book
and Kinks and
Short-wave Guide.
The first has 64
pages of answers to
short-wave questions
and problems deal-
ing with short-wave
receivers, trans-
mitters, boosters,
pre-amplifiers, bat-
tery sets, A.C. sets,
A. C. -D. C. set s,
aerials, converters,
five-metre receivers,
power supplies, audio amplifiers, beat
oscillators and code practice oscillators.
Every item is accompanied by a clear
diagram and instructions. The Guide,
also of 64 pages, contains a mass of
information on the building of short-
wave receivers, best aerials to use, simple
amateur transmitters, questions and
answers on short-wave problems, short-
wave hints and practical hints on tuning.
Diagrams and illustrations support the
many subjects. The books will be ob-
tainable in Australia through McGill’s
Newsagency, Melbourne, or Angus and
Robertson, Sydney.
A.W.A. chairman E. T. Fisk inaugu-
rated the Tasmanian Division of the In-
stitute of Radio Engineers (Australia) at
Hobart on 17/8/’3B. He referred to
radio control of aviation services in Aus-
tralia, and asserted that within 12 months
radio navigation of Australian air ser-
vices would equal anything overseas.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Location, Thargomindah, Queensland.
Receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-Waver.
Morning reception has been good on
all bands, but after 8.30 a.m. or so the
25- and 31-metre bands are second only
to 19 metres, which hangs on well, with
GSO the best station. Best overseas
station after 1 p.m. is GSI, and on 25
metres RNE and TPA4 are the only ones
worth while. There is nothing on 31
metres until around 2 p.m., when DJN
and GSB come in.
Afternoon reception is excellent on all
bands. After sunset the 19-metre stations
hold on well. PCJ, DJB and DJQ have
been heard until after 7 p.m., and TPB6
until closing. An unknown station is
heard at 5.15 p.m., gradually improving
until at 7 p.m. strength is equal to any
on the 19-metre band, but the language is
not known. Position in the band is right
on GSO. By 8
p.m. the station
is at excellent
volume, usually
closing at 9.30
p.m., but on
some occasions
running until
after 10 p.m.
By 8.30 p.m. the
Germans are fair
again, and now
GSF is nice copy
from 8.45 p.m.
HBO and HBJ
have been heard
at 4 p.m. and
4.30 p.m. with
good strength.
XTJ is strong at 10 p.m., despite the
bombing of Hankow. OLR is now on
19.58 metres nightly, improving by 10
p.m. to fairly good. Of the Empire
stations, GSG is the most consistent. A
South American was heard on 50 metres
after 9 p.m. Reference was made to
Colombia several times. A station is
listed there on 49.65 metres, but this was
on a much higher wave-length. Another,
heard on 49.35 metres, was undoubtedly
Colon, and both were reasonably strong.
Penang, Rangoon and Panama City have
all been at good strength.
K. B. G.
Amateur Chatter.
An old hand noticed reaching well to
U.S.A. on ’phone is VK6FL, Frank Lam-
bert, now of Geraldton, Westralia. His
signal reaches R 9 at times in Sydney in
the early evening. The mystery I.C.W.
commercial of two years ago has returned
on the 14,150 kc. edge of the American
’phone band, and raises an appalling
din. A Shanghai station was heard to
say that D.F. tests indicated that
the offender is a military station some-
where in the war zone. This seems un-
likely, as two years ago the same signal
was in evidence, before the Sino-
Japanese conflict started. The station
was at that time thought to be some-
where in the South Americas. Wherever
it is, it effectively blots out many 20-
metre ’phones at the low-frequency limit
of the U.S. ’phone band for 150 kc. or so.
The usual week-end 56mc. schedules
were run off in Sydney by VK2NO and
VK2EM on 14/8/’3B in the morning and
afternoon for ZL and VKS respectively,
still without success. Subsequent check-
up on 7mc. with VKs 2DN and SZU
showed that nothing had been heard at
those locations. VKSZU reported that
other South Australians on the air at the
time were VKs SHM and SCR.
VKSHM is using a self-excited trans-
mitter with 801’s in “long-lines” in the
final, and the oscillator is the stabilised
Jones type. Input is 50 watts. A simi-
lar arrangement is used at VKSCR with
20 watts.
At the meeting of N.S.W. Division of
W.I.A. on 18/8/’3B VK2NO spoke on
“Current U.H.F. Progress.” Transmitter,
receiver and aerial designs were dis-
cussed, and a plea made for more co-
operation in populating the 56mc. band
in particular for the coming summer.
Visitors to Sydney are XYLs ZLs
4DT and 4CL, who are sisters, ZL4DT
being the YF of old-hand Collett, ZL4BP
of Dunedin. Both ladies visited the
station of Molly Myers, VK2VN,
Federal Traffic Officer, and wielded ex-
pert fists in a yarn with the OMs on the
other side of the Tasman.
Latest M.L. 56mc. news comes from
Keith Shore, ZL4AI, editor of “Break-in.”
More interest is recorded among the ZLs.
and Fred Walters, ZL3DJ, is now concen-
trating on DX. When there is some real
activity in Auckland, M.L. will have a
chain of dependable stations right down
to the islands at intervals of 200 miles,
2RC being in Wellington, 3DJ in Christ-
church, and 4DQ, 4BK and 4BN in
Dunedin. ZL4BN has a C.C. rig which
goes to 56mc. for tests locally with
ZL4BB. Activity is reported from In-
vercargill in the extreme south, but as
yet with low power. Other newcomers
to the band are ZLs 2PD, 2RP and 2TL
in central North Island.
Eric Trebilcock, of Powell Creek, N.T.,
reports that he is dragging the world in
on 10 metres with the Ultra-Searcher re-
ceiver. His log reads,: “Previous to
14/8/’3B only seven DX stations had
been heard, but now they have been
logged in five countries, including c.w.
stations ZEIJJ, ZEIJZ, ZL4DQ, ZLIHY,
ZLIFT, W6DUC, W6PWR, VK4HG,
VK2FY, VKSIT, VK6AF, VK6SA and
VK2UD, ’phone stations K6CLV (R 9
for four hours), W6GCX, W6GRL,
W6CUQ, W6OHC, VK4HG, VK4HR,
VK2GU, VK3CP, VK3BW, ZLIHY and
ZL3AJ. The ZEs were heard from 4.30
to 5.30 p.m. Sydney time.” Later, he
heard VU2FS contact his first English-
man on 10 metres. For those who seek
DX on 40 metres, his reception in the
early mornings on this band is of inter-
est. Stations heard on this band before
daylight include OQSAV, VQ2GW,
ZEIJP, ZEIJM, G2SG, GSLP, G2ZP,
G3IH, SPIKB, SPIQX, SP2FU, EABAE,
CR7AF, ON4AUV and 21 ZS stations,
with ZS6FE at RB.
VK2NO.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) Would a one-valve set for short waves,
using a type-49 valve with a 1.5 -volt dry cell
A battery and six-volt B battery, pick up over-
seas stations? (2) What kind of aerial would
give the best results? —714.
(1) Yes, but signal strength will naturally be
very weak, even with sensitive headphones.
Evidently the planned receiver is of the space-
charge detection type. More than six volts will
be needed for the plate supply, and two nine-
volt C batteries in series, providing 18 volts,
will give much better results. Also, the filament
of the 49 should be operated at two volts.
There is likely to be erratic oscillation and lack
of sensitivity with only 1£ volts on the fila-
ment. (2) A well-insulated, high external aerial
would be necessary, about 60ft. total length, in-
cluding lead-in. Also a good earth connection.
* # * *
I have a two-valve short-wave set, using a 32
detector resistance coupled to a type 30, and
tuned by a .00014m/d. variable condenser. No
coils are available, but I have some 1 \in.
formers. Please give details of coils to cover
all the useful short-wave ranges and the broad-
cast band. —715.
Grid coils: 10 to 20 metres, 4| turns of 18
enamelled; 20 to 40 metres, lOf turns of 20
enamelled; 40 to 80 metres, 23 turns of 20
enamelled; 80 to 160 metres, 53 turns of 22
enamelled. Broadcast range needs two coils of
150 and 250 turns respectively of 36 D.S.C.
Plate coils: 10 to 20 metres, four turns 20
enamelled; 20 to 40 metres, six turns 20
enamelled; 40 to 80 metres, seven turns 20
enamelled; 80 to 160 metres, 15 turns 26
enamelled; and broadcast coils 40 and 45 turns
36 D.S.C. respectively. Turns for grid coils
on 10- to 40-metre ranges should be space-
wound about diameter of the wire.


Be a Diesel Engineer
Earn £’s Weekly EXTRA
in
\ 1!
. 1
m
m
I ?7’il
Jg=
ZDi
V
s<*
Deb
can quickly qualify by, practical
correspondence training in your
spare hours for a well-paid
position in Diesel engineering-—the coming
profession for trained engineers with specialised
technical knowledge. Never were. opportuni-
ties so great as in this relatively new and
uncrowded field of engineering.
BIG DEMAND
For Trained Men
More and more, the advantages of Diesel
power are being realised in all departments
of industry. Power users are changing rapidly
to this cheaper and more efficient form of.
power. The demand for the skilled, trained
man has never been so great.
The College can teach anyone about Diesels,
even those who know nothing about internal-. .
combustion engines.
EXTRA Earnings
‘ . ' > " ~, (I •
Here is your chance to capitalise on these
opportunities. NOW is the time to get into
Diesel engineering and qualify for the big, well-
paid positions that await the expert . Diesel
engineer. ,
Expert Instruction
The scientific instruction offered by the Diesel
Engineering College, which specialises exclu-
sively in Diesel training, is your guarantee of
success in this fascinating profession. ,
If you are really ambitious—if you want to
earn more —if you want to get ahead of the
next man —to stand out by virtue of your
knowledge—send in your enquiry to-day
regarding the Diesel Engineering College
courses. ■ * ! '
It doesn't matter how far away you live, you
can qualify just as easily as the man in the
city through these well-planned, comprehensive
courses. > : 1
Over 1000 Students
Throughout Australasia
The Diesel Engineering College has over 1 000
students in all parts of Australia, New Zealand,
Federated and Mandated Territories, New”
Guinea and the Pacific Islands. This vividly
illustrates the fact that our course of training
is well and favorably known and our practical
service to all of our students has shown success-
ful results. .. • • ;
Primary Course
The Diesel Engineering College engineers,
after years of research, have prepared a com-
prehensive course for the beginner in the con-
struction, operation and maintenance of Diesel
fucu mieefio* *
<FS g!iffc
Section through 2-stroke Com-
pression-Ignition Engine.
Above is one of many Diagrams used in the
Course of training, and very fully described
in the 'Paper dealing with this matter. , Every
subject is fully explained and illustrated with
diagrams ‘similar to the above.
engines. Ihe lessons are set out in the simplest
manner, with countless illustrations, diagrams,
etc., and are checked by competent examiners
who help the student. This .course covers two
main sections of Diesel engineering, either or
both of which may be seIectedTRACTION
DIESEL (tractors, lqrries, motor-rbuses, etc.);
STATIONARY DIESEL (power plants for
factories, farming, electricity, etc.). '
Advanced Course
(Including High-speed Diesels)
For mechanics, engineers, and those who
already have a preliminary knowledge of this
interesting and coming motive power.
This Advanced Course is covered by 12
lessons, and is plainly written, with all neces-
sary charts and diagrams, enabling the student
to make a comprehensive study of this* im-
portant subject. All phases of research and
latest developments are covered from operation
to installation.
The many intricate Diesel problems which
occur and will continue to crop up are
thoroughly and comprehensively dealt with in
this Advanced Course, and the students’
answers to the questions tin the.. Lessons are
carefully checked and commented upon by
engineering experts.
Diploma Given
The student of either course should, upon its
successful completion, be possessed of all the
necessary technical knowledge required of a
competent DIESEL engineer, and, in recogni-
tion of the fact, is awarded the Diploma of
the College,
FREE BOOK
« ! • - • f - -
A free book has been prepared to give you
complete details of either course in which you
may be interested (whether Primary or
Advanced). Send for it to-day.
Specially prepared by the Principal ot the
College, Mr. W. Kingsford Smith, it tells you
simply and clearly of the opportunities in
Diesel engineering and gives full details of
the Diesel Engineering College courses, terms,
etc. The fees are low, and may be paid either
in cash or by easy instalments.
Remember, on sea, land, road, in factories and
in the air, the cry is for Diesel power and for
Diesel-trained engineers.
Find Gut NOW
what opportunities Diesel engineering offers
YOU. Learn how you can, in your own time
and as you wish, study, under the guidance of
qualified experts. And remember it s the
TRAINED man that gets the highly-paid job.
It Costs Nothing
for you to send in your enquiry—and there is
no obligation. But it may be the turning point
in your life—may show - you the way to a
successful lifetime career, j So write now —
to-day. ;
NOTE. —-The College has just moved to much
larger and more commodious premises at the
address shown below.
Offices at SYDNEY- — Newcastle
MELBOURNE.
Remember! There is no obligation if you
write for the Free Booklet.
f-}ty V ' _ ,
Be sure and advise, when you write, whether
. .you require particulars of the Primary or the
Advanced Course.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE.
gives you full information
regarding the courses of
this, the largest Diesel
Engineering College in
Australasia.
Post this enquiry NOW.
The Principal,
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 A George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Without obligation to me, please forward full information regarding your
. . course (state if Primary or Advanced Course
is required).
NAME . .
ADDRESS .
B. 31/81/‘3B.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
I USED TRI-CAL-OS.
“Minerals”: Just read that every gallon
of milk a cow produces contains an
equivalent of l|oz. of phosphoric acid ;
a cow yielding 500 gallons gives the
equivalent of 6250 z. of phosphoric acid.
That’s something to think about. I find
a great difference in my winter produc-
tion since I fed that Tri-cal-os Bone
Flour, supplying over 32 per cent, phos-
phoric acid. It is certainly improving
the digestion of the feeding stuffs ; evi-
dently the herd was not getting enough
mineral matter before to digest the non-
mineral portion of the feed. Yes, the
makers, Davis Gelatine, Sydney, will send
you all particulars.
Old Farmer.
/-V AjP
The Kicliardson Chain Hotel
Mmeskr
m i
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Gold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
THE MAN ON THE LAND
DON'T WORRY. IM SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
The New Wool Season.
“Ghanam”: The first sales of the new
season opened in Sydney on August 29,
but results give no real indication of
what may be expected. The season has
been so erratic that shearing dates have
been moved about, and in all States wool
has been unusually slow in coming for-
ward. In July amounts received in store
for the Commonwealth totalled only
72,577 bales against 106,000 bales in
1937.
Much wool is broken, dusty and other-
wise drought-affected, but this should
react favorably on better-class clips, since
they will command more competition.
The carry-over, too, will be almost bal-
anced by a 200,000-bale shortage in the
current clip.
In Britain there has been an easing
tendency in yarn prices and an unreadi-
ness among buyers under contract to
take delivery of finished goods. Against
this, retail trade has been better than
mill trade, thanks to increased employ-
ment in armament and machinery
centres, and, though there has been no
expansion of buying by retail houses,
steady trade must have heavily depleted
British stocks of manufactured material.
Japan, too, should live up to her con-
tract this year. Last season, from
January to May, her imports were only
44,000,0001 b. against 187,000,0001 b. dur-
ing the same period last year. Raw
wool stocks towards the end of 1937-38
were only at about 50 p.c. of the 1937
level.
Artificials continue to alarm breeders.
Figures prepared by the U.S.A. Agri-
cultural Department show the actual
trend in one of the biggest markets
better than any figures yet published.
Only twice in 20 years has the total
consumption of textiles passed 34.41 b.
per head in U.S.A/ —36.3 in 1927 and
34.8 last year. In some years the total
has fallen to from 24.31 b. to 261 b. The
1927 —three years after artificials began
to come on the market in quantities—•
and 1937 figures were: —-
Wool (Scoured
Cotton. Basis). Rayon. Silk.
Lb. Lb. Lb. Lb.
1927 .. 31.7 3.00 0.85 .72
1937 .. 29.5 , 2.73 2.02 .50
Against the average of the past 10
years, 29.761 b., the use of textiles in
1937 was 5.141 b. better. Wool showed
an increase of .181 b. per head despite
its abnormally high price in U.S.A. —
scoured fleece wool, Boston av. for fine
clothing, was 96 cents per pound in May,
1937. The cotton improvement to
29.51 b. was 4.421 b. over 10-year average,
and rayon at 2.021 b. was .451 b. above
the decade line. Actually, .301 b. less
rayon per head went into consumption
in the States last year than in 1936.
It will be seen that, despite rayon’s
price advantage over wool, and its better
appearance over cotton, cotton and wool
covered 4.61 b. of the increase over the
decade average and artificials less than
ilb. Moreover, apart from the actual
fall last year in per capita use of rayon,
the average increase has slowed up con-
siderably in late years.
Blackleg in N.S.W.
“J.R.D.”: During a recent shearing in
n.-w. N.S.W. 100 sheep out of the first
1000 shorn died from blackleg. Victims
had been cut about at shearing, and the
infection was carried to the lesions by
dust. In a case like this sterilising
combs and cutters and using disinfectant
about the shed would be little use.
To prevent the disease from spreading
the only course would be to inoculate
all sheep on the property and on neigh-
boring properties as well with blackleg
vaccine. To be thoroughly effective this
should be carried out three weeks before
shearing. Where such a heavy loss occurs
it is far better to stop shearing at once
and inoculate the balance of the flock.
Cattle at Brisbane.
“Yeno Ham”: A good season helped
cattle exhibits at Brisbane Royal
National.
Coloring of the beef Shorthorns was
softer and more defined, with a greater
absence of washy roans than in some
former years. There was strong com-
petition from N.S.W. studs. Turanville
“Must be something on to-day, Ma; lot o' people about town."
(N.S.W.) showed the champion bull, the
stylish Turanville Centurion. .It was the
estate’s third successive Brisbane cham-
pionship. Wilson and McDouall’s im-
ported Collynie Royal Mascot took the
reserve ribbon. Showing improvement
since she won a similar award in Sydney
earlier in the year, Abbotslea Maid,
owned by Peel River (N.S.W.) Co., was
champion cow. Netherby Mistress Kes-
trel, the nicely-fleshed, evenly-covered
champion of 1937, was reserve. She is
owned by J. T. Scrymgeour. ,
In the beef sections polled breeds are
making progress in the North, imported
blood being prominent in pedigrees of
the winners. Poll Shorthorns were almost
as good as the horned for quality. J. T.
Scrymgeour took the championship with
his Red Victor (imp.), a bull with a fair
head and nice hindquarters. Reserve
went to the N.S.W. bull Gunnawarra
Sultan 4th, owned by F. S. Simpson. He
has a good topline and is evenly-fleshed.
Gundibri (N.S.W.) had champion and
reserve cows. Gundibri Lassie 2nd, a
white which carries her beef well down,
was champion, followed by Gundibn
Janet 3rd.
Herefords showed great improvement,
cows being particularly strong. Golf
Hill Yeoman, owned by E. R. Reynolds,
was champion bull. J. Sparkes’s Hobart-
ville Bon Ton was reserve. Myall Caris-
sima, owned by the N.S.W. Fenwick
Bros., was placed at the top of the cows,
with Myall Sunbeam 2nd, from the same
stud, reserve.
Polled Herefords were the best seen
in Brisbane. Santos Jim, imported from
U.S.A. by J. Sparkes early this year, was
champion bull. He has a nice skin and
plenty of length. Wilson and McDouall’s
Paul’s Perfection 47th (imp.) was reserve,
For. cows Wilson and McDouall took the
championship with Evelyn 3rd (imp.), and
J. Sparkes the reserve with Lily’s Lady
(imp.).
J. M.‘Newman, of the Cabulcha (Q.)
stud, swept the Aberdeen-Angus pool,
His Cabulcha Evelyn’s General was
champion bull, his Beauty 158th of Hays-
toun (imp.) champion cow, and Cabulcha
General’s Beauty, a daughter of the
champion, reserve cow. Abington Eclipse,
from N. L. Forster’s stud at Armidale
(N.S.W.), was reserve champion bull.
Red Polls were few but good, Frederick
Stewart’s team from Dundas, Sydney,
taking both championships. The bull
was Ranksborough Bleriot (imp.), and the
cow Northwood Bluebell. Though
Queenslander R. A. Howell was the only
exhibitor, Devons were good.
In dairy breeds, Australian Illawarra
Shorthorns—there were 400 entries—were
outstanding. Quality was very even.
W. H. Thompson owned the champion
cow Penrhos Pansy. Oakvilla Champion
12th, from W. G. Marquardt’s stud, was
a close reserve. They filled the two lead-
ing places in the cow-in-milk class. Bur-
radale 1 Byron, owned by J. Phillips, took
his third successive bull championship.
Reserve champion was H. J. Pearce’s
Sunnyview Coronation.
The 278 Jersey entries maintained the
high quality set at previous shows. Glen-
view Starlight, owned by F. P. Fowler
and Sons, was champion cow. Reserve
ribbon went to Oxford Joyful Maid, E.
Burton and Sons’ champion in 1936 and
1937. For the fourth consecutive year
Mrs. M. E. Stanton’s Oxford Brown
Victory was champion bull. Showing
splendid character, he handled well.
F. R. Nimmo’s Oxford Daffodil’s King
was reserve.
Ayrshires improved in numbers and
quality, but too many of the heifers had
small teats. R. M. Anderson’s Myola
Lady Jean, regarded as-one of the best
Ayrshires in Australia, was champion
cow. The reserve ribbon went to her
mother, Fairview Lady Bess, with which
Anderson had won three previous titles,
Same owner’s Myola Bosca was cham-
pio'n bull, a youngster of quality. J.
Ruhle’s Myola Jellicoe was a close
reserve.
Guernseys made the best Brisbane
showing on record, several new exhibitors
being a feature. J. T. Collett’s cham-
pion was Minnamurra Victory Queen.
A. Cooke’s Laureldale Peace Boy was
champion bull.
Chief feature of the Friesians was the
splendid quality of young stock. Hickey
Pty.’s Glendalough Corndale took her
third championship. Inavale Fanny
sth, owned by A. O. Stumer, won the
reserve ribbon. Burnbrae Joecho Dekol,
in a very close contest, defeated Tent
Hill Starling’s Actuary for the male
championship, which the latter had won
since 1933.
TTT “*
Improved Hard Wheats,
“Yarrunga”: The N.S.W. Standing
Advisory Committee on wheat has
recommended the Department of Agricul-
ture to include in its wheat-improvement
programme the breeding of hard types
suitable for the north-west slopes and
western plains, where climatic conditions
favor the production of grain of medium
or strong flour class. Previously millers’
representatives had made uniformity of
quality the first consideration, even if it
meant adherence to soft wheats only.
The object of plant-breeders is to pro-
duce premium wheat, such as Pusa, with
a higher yield capacity. It is a 10-year
job. . .
Another variety that promises to riva.
the Pusas for the north-west is Cailloux,
bred at the French Government Research
Station in Tunis, entirely from material
furnished by Farrer. It was one o e
best for milling and baking quality ex-
hibited at last Sydney Royal Show. An
early-maturer, it is the most extensively-
grown variety in the French Atncan
colonies,
Why ot jyj ore Honey?
“Meli”- N S Wales honev varieties
will s nd ™ m parln wfth a'ny in thl
world. But in most districts its produc-
erratic business and in manv
( ki J ds o£ j, oweri trees
H ° J ]d ume trouble be run
as a sideline in conjunction with anti-
. or shelter . be i t wor k Yellow-
bQx on coa ironbark are use .
both h , d -, f shade and for
( Continued on next page.)


Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
I aHUBBIBUNM
LUNBYb
I
5
BX
T
I
J ERSONAL
ATTENTION
y*tju£u&:
FOR INCREASED DAIRY PROFITS!
ANOTHER IMPORTANT
ITEM OF NEWS
MASONITE, "The Wonder
Board of 1,000 Uses", is now
available in Australia in its
four forms - PRESDWOOD,
QUARTRBOARD, Tempered
PRESDWOOD, and TEMPR-
TILE. All these are now at the
immediate disposal of those
desiring buildings of greater
durability and permanence,
greater beauty and advanced
economy. The Colonial Sugar
Refining Company (Building
Materials Division) will gladly
send you a copy of the
MASONITE BOOK.
CI2-8
9 Severe drops in temperature
react on milk production and
effect the health of the herd. Ex-
cessively hot days also lower
production. The surest and most
economical method (and the easiest
method) of off-setting extremes of tem-
perature is to insulate with CANE-ITE,
the high-efficiency insulation which can
be worked with an ordinary saw and
nailed, if necesssary, to existing studs
and rafters.
We'll be glad to send you samples ol CANE-
ITE together with interesting literature. Write
to your nearest branch oi the Colonial Sugar
Refining Co. Ltd. (Building Materials Div-
ision).
TE
THE WHITE-ANT-PROOFED 100% CANE FIBRE
INSULATING BOARD
GIVES TO UNSEWERED AREAS
one of the Amenities of City Life.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No Stench, Flies or Germs.
I
.
m
i
No water supply
required. Can be
installed where
septic tank is not
practicable. The
most widely used
system in A’asia.
In Homes, Hotels,
Schools, Theatres,
etc. Shell Oil Co.
60 repeat orders.
Bank of N.S.W.
15. Any handyman
can install them.
Automatic. No emptying. Write for pamphlet.
Price, £l5/10/- Sydney. Agents all States.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR,
Hygeia Sanitary Company Pty., Btd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
BLACKSTONE
DIESEL ENGINES
A BLACKSTONE for Every Purpose.
Models from 3 h.p. upwards.
TOTALLY ENCLOSED,
tected from dusf, etc.
Fully pro-
-0 LISTARD ( Van de Horst Patent) Cylinder
liners give 400% longer life.
0 Pressure Lubricated throughout.
N.S.W.:
Gibson, Battle & Coy.
Pty., Ltd., 535 Kent
Street, Sydney.
Q'LAND:
Norman Bell Pty. Ltd.,
403 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
W. AUST.:
Blackman & Law, 843
Hay Street, Perth.
VICTORIA:
Mitchell & Coy. Pty.,
Ltd., West Footscray,
Melbourne.
S. AUST.:
Unbehaun & Johnstone,
Ltd., 58 Gawler Place,
Adelaide.
N.Z.:
A. R. Christian, Ltd.,
45 Tory St., Wellington.
BLACKSTONE & CO. LTD., STAMFORD, ENG.
pollen-producing. And most eucalypts
are worth while from a beekeeper’s view-
point.
Seeds are easy to get. Collect the
fruits when fully grown and store till
they are well dried. Then shake the seed
out and store it for a while. Plant in
tins which have been well-bottomed with
loam and dressed on top with ordinary
roadside sand. Press the seed firmly into
the sand and water four times a day,
keeping the tin glass-covered to conserve
moisture and heat. When the plant
has made about four months’ growth
place it, tin and all, in the soil, and it
should look after itself.
This is the time to plant honey-making
trees in most eastern Australian districts.
Get Bananas In.
“Gros Michel”: September begins the
banana-planting season proper. Some
growers still stick to the square system,
but it is not a good one, and helps cause
erosion. . Contour and hexagonal systems
are better.
Lay out the plantation with a sighting-
stick if a plough cannot be used, proper
allowance being made for paths and
tracks. Fairly deep planting is advisable.
It makes for slow growth, suckering and
production, but it gives the plants a
longer life. Holes in volcanic soil should
run down 15in. to 18in., and should be
about 15in. in diameter. Hole bottoms
should be covered with a few inches or
so of good topsoil. Then put in the bulb
and cover with another 3in. of topsoil.
Do not bury it to the level of the
ground surface. Let it come up in a basin
which gives it early shelter and pro-
vides for the quickest possible suckering
and water catchment. The basin will
gradually fill with silt and soil worked
into it during cultivation after the plant
has been given a good start. On new
land roots should be carefully removed
from near plants.
N.S.W. Pasture Grasses.
“Yeno Ham”: Perennial rye grass,
cocksfoot, red and white clovers, the
most popular species for sown pastures
on the N.S.W. coast, need a soil of high
fertility to give best results. Do not look
for a grass that will grow on poor coun-
try, but build up the soil fertility until
it is capable of growing rye grass.
Where soil is below rye-grass stand-
ard, green manure crops will improve
fertility, although the effect is temporary.
Cowpeas make the best green crop, as
they can be ploughed in and pasture
sown immediately afterwards. The sward
should be topdressed with at least lcwt.
of super, per acre each year. Super,
encourages clover, which supplies nitro-
gen to the soil, and helps the rye and
cocksfoot.
When pasture growth is too heavy for
stock to keep it down, use the-mower and
conserve the cut as hay or silage. Use
pasture harrows regularly to distribute
droppings. Pastures give their best
results when paddocks are small.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mullengah”: Common cause of colic
in draught horses is turning them out,
after working in cold weather, without
rugging or rubbing down. If the horse
carries a heavy coat he should be rubbed
with a cloth before he cools. Best plan
is to clip the horse and rug him in
winter.
“Gumblegubbin”: To provide a roll-
ing ground for fowls, tip a load of creek
or river sand under a shady tree. This
keeps loose in all weathers, and the birds
get bits of shell or other grit by scratch-
ing.
“Wandi”: In a wattle plantation a
tree can produce both gum and bark.
The gum is used in confectionery. Years
ago up to 250 tons a year were exported
from S.A.
“0.W.W.”: When dosing sheep with
worm pills I keep a small tin of salt
handy, and dip my fingers into it now
and then. The jumbucks swallow their
medicine much more willingly.
“Sheepo”: On stock routes, tjhirsty
sheep will sometimes refuse to drink.
Build a brake round the mob and leave
it there overnight. In the morning feed
the sheep out for a couple of hours and
then turn their heads for the water.
“Jumbuck”: In yards where tetanus
germs exist lamb-markers’ boots may be
carriers, so if you’re touching-up the
knife blade on the boot dip it frequently
in anti-tet. mixture.
“Nabawa”: Most of the 7,000,000
bushels of N.S.W. wheat still stored in
the silos is held by growers, who have
watched the market decline while storage
charges have mounted at the rate of Id.
per bushel weekly since March. A carry-
over of 4,000,000 bushels is expected
when next deliveries begin, and it may
greatly hamper the speedy handling of
the new crop. Flour export has bright-
ened, and millers’ wheat requirements
for the balance of the season are esti-
mated at 3,000,000 bushels.
“A.A.D.”: N.S.W. and Queensland
millers have followed Dr. Kent-Jones’s
suggestion that using \ p.c. to 1 p.c. of
malted wheat in their mixtures would
correct the sugar deficiency in average
Australian wheats. Nabawa, grown in
the outer western N.S.W. district, was
tried first, but Ford gave better results
and was more readily obtainable of good
sample, free from weathering. Now it
has been found that Mottled Dundee,
which millers ban, is even more efficient.
“Huglow”: Perhaps the N.Q. bauhinia
leaves do not have the same effect on
sheep as the southern variety (B.
10/8/’3B). Certainly sheepowners on
the Downs (S.Q.) would rather give their
sheep away than be faced with the pos-
sibility of a blind flock. I know of one
owner who once tried bauhinia, spending
his last penny on fodder in a second
drought rather than feed off the trees
again.
“Ek Dum”: Has anything been done
towards increasing the fertility of the
merino? Sometimes U.S.A. percentages
are double those of N.S.W. (about 130)
and more than double those of Queens-
land, which fall below 60. If our condi-
tions are due entirely to heredity, it
might not be so easy to provide a remedy,
but if nutrition plays a part something
might be done about it, at least in pas-
ture-improvement and fodder-conserva-
tion districts.
“Zedo”: Different districts and soils
call for different types of maize, though
some suit a wide range of climate. In
N. S. Wales Fitzroy is choice, es-
pecially on good soils, in the coastal
country from Bega northwards, with
Hickory King next, on second-class
ground particularly. On the tablelands
and s. and s.-w. slopes lowa Silvermine,
Fink’s Yellow Dent and sometimes
Learning do well. There is, too, a good
deal of Red Hogan round the County of
Cumberland, and Pride of Hawkesbury is
popular in the Shoalhaven and Illawarra
—it seems capable of a lot more develop-
ment and adaptation.
“Jayem”: By conserving fodder as
maize silage, lucerne and cereal hay,
F. W. Johnstone, of Baerami Creek
(N.S.W,) was able to withstand the
drought on Hunter Valley which caused
neighboring dairies to close down. He
has been hand-feeding his Jerseys for
two years, with no appreciable decline in
production. The cows have maintained
average butterfat yields of 2301 b. each.
They are grazed on lucerne. Johnstone
topdresses the lucerne with lcwt. of
superphosphate per acre annually. He
has made a start with pasture improve-
ment by topdressing 15 acres with super,
and sowing rye grasses with a combine.
A few points of rain recently resulted in
splendid clover growth, and the rye gave
good germination.
“Toto”: In Nyarrin (Vic.) district a
high-speed tractor has seeded 920 acres
in 129 hours. It hauled a 24-tyne com-
bine at to 8 miles an hour over
stump-strewn paddocks without damage
to the machinery. The job called for six-
hour shifts, night and day, for nearly six
days.
“Yeno Ham”: Twelve years ago
W. E. Marsh, of Findon Creek, Kyogle
(N.S.W.), was working for wages on a
dairy farm. He saved enough money
to pay a deposit .on a 90-acre farm of
his own at £4 ss. an acre. He has im-
proved the holding till it is now valued
at more than three times that. Jersey
cows returned a little more than half
his income last year—the rest was made
from sale of pigs, poultry, fruit and
vegetables. Average production of the
herd is 2001 b. of butter per cow annually ;
not exceptionally high, but good con-
sidering that the herd was built up from
very mixed beginnings, chiefly by the use
of good bulls and selection of heifers
from the highest producing cows. The
cows have been helped by 20-acres of
improved pastures, chiefly perennial rye,
red and white clovers, which are top-
dressed with super, annually, getting
occasional applications of sulphate of
ammonia. Super, is applied at the rate
of lcwt. an acre, while |cwt. of sulphate
of ammonia goes on to each acre.
Lucerne, topdressed, provides plenty of
grazing and hay. Marsh won the North
Coast dairy farm championship this year.


nuk
MODEL 40—
4-valve A.C. Broadcast
Superheterodyne for
local reception.
Valves: 6A7, GF7, 42, 80.
£l2/19/6
MODEL 41—
4- Battery Broad-
cast Superheterodyne
for local reception.
Valves: IC6, IC4, IK6, ID4.
Complete with Bat-
teries . . 19 guineas
MODEL 50—
5- A.C. Broadcast
Superheterodyne for
reception of Australian
and New Zealand
stations.
Valves: GA7, 6DG, 75, 42, 80.
15 guineas
n
Have achieved outstanding popularity everywhere as rivals of
much larger and more expensive consoles for CLARITY . . .
SENSITIVITY . . . DEPENDABILITY. Despite their compact
size—they measure only 14in. high x lOin. wide x 7in. deep—
they give excellent performance, and all you wish for in radio
entertainment, PLUS the advantage of being easily carried from
place to place.
MODEL 51—
5-valve A.C./D.C. Broadcast Superhetero-
dyne for reception of Australian and New
Zealand stations.
Valves: EK2*, CF2, CBCI, OL2, CY2, Cl.
19 guineas
MODEL 52
5-valve Vibrator Broadcast Superhetero-
dyne for reception of Australian and New
Zealand stations.
Valves: IC7C, IMSG, IMSG, IK7G, ILSG.
Complete with Battery, 23 guineas.
MODEL 60—
5-valve A.C. All World Superheterodyne
for reception of Australian and New
Zealand Broadcast and Overseas Short-
wave stations.
Valves: GA7, GDC, 75, 42, 80.
19 guineas
ifl
1 V
.
m
mmmmi
r '•tv‘••&;.,&,
-Ill;
mse*
JbJut
l
MULLARD CARRY-CASE.
Particularly designed for use ■with the Vibrator
Mantel Model 52, thus adapting it as a Portable
Radio. The Mullard Carry-Case may, nevertheless,
be used as a snug transportable cover for ALL
Mullard Master Mantels. So convenient if you want
to take your Radio with you. Very strongly on /
constructed in attractive leather finish.... o\f/“
Can do a great job of work where conditions are extremely difficult. They can
outdo in value for money anything else that the market has to offer.
Mullard introduces exclusive features resulting from the combined resources of their
Overseas and Australian organisations. The designers and manufacturers have at
no time or to any degree compromised with quality.
MODEL 718-5-valve
5-valve Battery Operated Broadcast
Console for the reception of Australian
and New Zealand stations.
Valves: IC4, IC6, IC4, 185, PM22AA.
Complete with batteries, 28 guineas.
MODEL 728-5-valve
5-valve Vibrator Powered Broadcast
Console for the reception of Australian
and New Zealand stations.
Valves: IC4, IC6, IC4, 185, ID4.
Complete with battery, 33 guineas.
MODEL 808-5-valve
5-valve A.C. All World Superheterodyne
Console for the reception of Australian
and New Zealand Broadcast and Overseas
Short -wave stations.
Valves: 6A7, GDC, 75, 42, 80.
25 guineas
7
the 90 SERIES
The Mullard All Wprld de Luxe Consoles
Models 92, 93 and 94 (The Mullard 90
Series) give you all you have ever wished for
in Radio. Truly a superb Series, both in
performance and appearance, providing
clarity of reception and tonal quality without
peer.
MULLARD MASTER
MODEL 81, featuring
New . . . Swift . . . Silent
TELETUNING
5-valve A.C. All World Console for
reception of Australian and New Zea-
land Broadcast and Overseas Short-
wave stations. Introducing the most
fascinating and reliable tuning device
yet offered in Australia—Mullard Tele-
tuning!
Incorporating new type Octal Base Valves:
6ABG, 6U7G, <3B6G, GF6G. SY3G.
27 Guineas
I
.. .
HgHgrarau
*
:
19
.
mm
■
MODEL 92
6-valve Battery Operated All World Console for the
reception of Australian and New Zealand Broadcast and
Overseas Short-wave stations.
■lncorporating new “G”tvpe Octal Base Valves:
11>5G, IC7G, IDSG, IDSG, IK7G, IFSG.
Complete with batteries, 38 guineas
MODEL 93
6-valve Vibrator Powered All World Console for the
reception of Australian and New Zealand Broadcast
and Overseas Short-wave stations.
Incorporating new “G”tvpe Octal Base Valves:
IDSG, IC7G, IDSG, IDoG, IK7G, IFSG.
Complete with Battery, 44 guineas
MODEL 94
6-valve A.C. Superheterodyne All World Console for the
reception of Australian and New Zealand Broadcast
and Overseas Short-wave stations.
Valves: CD6, 6A7, 6D6, 75, 42, 80.
. 33 Guineas
j
Milliard
y lflcbSt&*'
(flaxU^
MULLARD (AUST.) PTY., LTD., 26-30 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: 87446 (4 lines).
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. : Bloch & Gerber, Ltd.; George Brown & Co.
Pty., Ltd.; Westcott Hazell & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Victoria and Tasmania: Howard Radio Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne, Hobart and Launceston.
Queensland: Trackson Bros. Pty., Ltd., Brisbane.
South Australia: R. C. Woollard, Adelaide.
West Australia: Mick Foster, Ltd., Perth.


• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• FREELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn
in Spare Time!
The most thorough and practical
Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School oS Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Seryice Department
This page is N set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Position wanted by tutor, exp. with Black-
friars’ correspondence school course. —712.
To buy Isles of Illusion, by “Asterisk.” —
674.
To buy specimen of malachite with gold
association. Write first to H. Karai, importer,
16 Wadia-street, Tardeo, Bombay, India.
Words of poem “Dan Drew,” by C. J.
Dennis.—67s.
Information Sought.
(1) Is the marriage of cousins dangerous
from the physical, menial or social points of
view ? (2) Brief accounts of the Jukes and
Kallikak families, in both of which evil results
are said to have followed on consanguinity?
—713.
(1) Depends on the particular cousins who
marry. If the stock is good, no bad results
are to be feared; if hereditary defects exist,
the marriages of cousins are more likely to
perpetuate these than the marriages of unre-
lated persons. (2) The history of the Jukes
family (the name is assumed) was investigated
by the Prison Association of New York in
1874. It begins with a vagrant named Max
and a female companion of the same class,
who with other criminals established a colony
50 miles from the city. Intermarriage took place,
and over 2000 of the descendants have been
traced. The list includes 300 paupers, 600
mental deficients and 140 criminals, seven of
whom were murderers. Only 20 of the total
learned a trade, and 10 learned it while in
prison. In 75 years the family’s cost to the
State was nearly 1,500,000 dollars. The Kalli-
kak family history is very similar. The de-
scendants of a feeble-minded girl and one
Martin Kallikak have been traced back to the
time of the Revolutionary War. They are 480
in number, and include epileptics, criminals,
mental deficients and alcoholics. A point of
interest is that Kallikak later married a girl
of excellent character. Their descendants (496)
have all been normal, many of them having
been lawyers, educationists, Judges and doctors.
* * * *
When is Hallow’en, and what festival is
held at that time ? —696.
October 31 —the last day of the year in the
ancient Celtic calendar, during the night of
which warlocks and witches sallied forth to
their revels. Under Christianity it became the
Eve of All-Hallows’, or All-Saints’; but even
to-day, and especially in Scotland and the
northern counties of England, games are still
played in which traces of the old superstition
linger.
* * * *
What is the origin of the phrase “Praise
from Sir Hubert”? —7l9.
The line “Approbation from Sir Hubert
Stanley is praise indeed” occurs in Act V, Sc. 2,
of “A Cure for the Heartache,” a comedy
written by Thomas Morton in 1797.
* * * *
How can I get flying instruction, how\ long
does a course take and how much does it cost
to gain an A-class pilot’s license? —642.
It is necessary to join a flying school or
aero club to receive instruction. There is no
entrance fee for pupil membership with the
Royal Aero Club of N.S.W., and the annual
subscription is £3 3s. Flying fees, which are
paid as instruction is received, are dual £3 and
solo £1 10s. per hour. There is no charge
for ground instruction. The average cost to
secure an “A” license is £45 to £5O, but the
actual cost varies and is dependent upon the
aptitude of the pupil. The time taken in obtain-
ing an “A” license varies according to the
amount of time at the pupil’s disposal, but if
he can devote all his time to training it
should take approximately a month. The “B”
license costs approximately £250; full particulars
will be sent on application. Instruction is car-
ried out every day of the week, including Satur-
day and Sunday, and while undergoing instruc-
tion a pupil may, if he wishes, work in the
club’s workshop and so gain valuable experi-
ence. There is also a clubhouse on the aero-
drome at which members may board. Before
commencing a flying course, it is necessary to
be assessed medically fit to hold a license by
a doctor authorised by the Civil Aviation Board.
Members are usually examined by Dr. G. Will-
cocks, 153 Macquarie-street, Sydney.
•I* sjc
(1) Particulars regarding loss of the Dande-
nong, including figures as to those lost and sur-
vivors ? (2) Information concerning severity
of the storm responsible for the disaster ? —590.
(1) The s.s. Dandenong, 507 tons, of Mel-
bourne, foundered off Jervis Bay, N.S.W., on
September 11, 1876, in a very heavy southerly
gale. The vessel’s propeller-shaft broke, damag-
ing the after bulkhead, and she filled with water
and sank. There were 52 passengers aboard,
and a total of 40 persons were drowned, includ-
ing members of the crew; there were 30 sur-
vivors. (2) The storm was stated to have been
the greatest ever known in Sydney, the gale
reaching in one instance the abnormal velocity
of 153 m.p.h., and a great amount of damage
was done.
* * * *
What is dew-point temperature, and how is
it arrived at? —729.
It is the temperature at which the relative
humidity of a given sample of air is 100 p.c.;
that is to say, the air is holding in suspension
the maximum possible amount of water vapor.
The dew-point is measured by cooling a sur-
face and noting the temperature at which it
becomes coated with moisture. From this the
relative humidity can be calculated; e.g., if the
temperature of the air is 20deg. C., and it has
to be cooled to lldeg. C. before dew deposits,
then the air at 20deg. C. is holding in sus-
pension an amount of water vapor equal to the
maximum which it will hold at lldeg. C. By
referring to tables it is possible to calculate
this quantity, and thus the relative humidity
of the air under the given conditions.
* * * *
I noticed an advertisement in a U.S.A. paper
offering live chameleons, 25 cents each, posted
to any address, delivery alive guaranteed. Are
these little animals obtainable in Australia;
if so, from whom ? How could I import one,
and what would it cost ? —577.
The true chameleons are African lizards,
whilst those advertised in America possibly
may be a species of South American lizard,
locally called chameleon. Don’t know of any
animal dealer in Australia who keeps them.
You had best write direct to the American
advertiser for information.
* * * *
(1) A few facts concerning Sir James Dewar?
(2) What did he invent ? (3) When and why
was he knighted?- —725.
(1) Born in 1842, Dewar was a Scottish
chemist and physicist. He was demonstrator
at Edinburgh, lecturer at the Dick Veterinary
College, Jacksonian Professor at Cambridge
(1875), Fullerian Professor at the Royal Institu-
tion (1877), and holder of the Rumford (1894),
Hodgkins (Washington) and French Academy
of Sciences (Lavoisier) medals. He died in 1923.
(2) He invented cordite (with Abel), the vacuum
flask, apparatus for liquefying and solidifying
oxygen and hydrogen, and antidotes to poison
gas (cooled charcoal). (3) He was knighted for
his services to science in 1904.
% * * *
(1) How to detect wood borers in pianos?
(2) Appearance and habits of the borer? (3)
How to eradicate? (4) If possible to eradicate,
how to prevent a reappearance? —6l6.
(1) There are two kinds 6f borers likely to
occur in pianos. The first of these is known
as the powder post borer and is found
only in the sapwood of hardwoods. The second
is the furniture borer, which is found princi-
pally in softwoods and some imported hard-
woods, but never in Australian hardwoods.
The occurrence of either borer in a timber is
shown by the small exit holes which the mature
beetles make when they leave the wood. These
holes are from l-32nd to 1-16th of an inch in
diameter. In addition to the holes, small heaps
of dust are extruded from these holes and some-
times, in the case of the powder post borer,
from the pOres of the timber. If the dust is
floury the powder post borer is present, and if
it is gritty the furniture borer can be sus-
pected. (2) The damage to the timber is
done by the grub, which consumes a por-
tion of the timber before it pupates and
finally emerges as a beetle. The powder post
borer in the beetle stage is l-sth of an inch
long and is smooth and brown in color. The
furniture borer is a dusty grey-brown, of the
same size, but more squat and more sluggish
in its movements than the first-named. Both
insects avoid light. The grubs of both are
very similar in appearance and are about l-16th
to l-4th of an inch long when full grown.
They are white and soft, with dark-brown
heads. The furniture-borer grub is the bigger.
The habits of the insects, which are very
similar, are as follows: The female lays the
eggs in a pore of a hardwood if it is the powder
post borer or a crack if it is the furniture borer.
The grub hatches out and bores for a period
of six to ten months. It then pupates, be-
comes a beetle, and cuts a hole and emerges
from the timber. (3) Fumigation is most effec-
tive. Treatment of exit holes with a 5 p.c.
solution of paradichlorbenzene in kerosene
with a brush or syringe is quite effective, but
tedious. More than one application may be
necessary. (4) Prevention of reinfestation is pos-
sible, but inconvenient. Varnishing all the
timber is effective but laborious. Infested timber
treated with the p. in k. solution will not be
attacked again.
* * * *
How many species of birds, including
migrants, are known to occur in Australia ?
534.
The Royal Australian Ornithologists’ Union
Check List of the Birds of Australia, which
includes migrants, but not introduced species
such as the sparrow and starling, gives 707
species. There are about 11 species which
have been introduced and have become estab-
lished, and half of these are now regarded as
pests.
* * * *
(1) What are the common sources of the fats
derived from food? (2) What are the uses of
fas as a food? (3) How is it stored in the
body? —7ol.
(1) Fats are derived mostly from meats,
poultry, certain fish, milk and butter and some
plants, especially coconuts, peanuts and olives.
Certain cereals also contain a fair supply,
notably corn and oatmeal. (2) It is a valuable
source of fuel or energy; it provides for the
heating of the body to the temperature neces-
sary for the normal activities of the organs
and for muscular action. (3) It is stored up
in various organs, but chiefly in areas immedi-
ately below the skin.
* * * *
Can appendicitis follow the swallowing of the
seeds of grapes, apples or other fruits ? —692.
Most people swallow the seeds of fruit from
time to time, especially those of grapes; yet
the presence of a seed is so rare in a diseased
appendix as to call for special comment, and
it is rarely possible to be sure that the seed
was the cause of the inflammation. The cause
of appendicits is an infection of the organ by
pus-forming germs.
* * * *
Is diphtheria a disease in which the throat
alone is attacked? —708.
The disease may occur in the eye, when the
lids swell and there is a bloodstained dis-
charge and the characteristic membrane forms.
Nasal diphtheria is frequently seen as an ex-
tension of the infection from the throat, and
the laryngeal type, the most dangerous of all,
may cause closure of the windpipe and death
from suffocation. The diphtheria bacillus can
also flourish in almost any wound to which it
gains entry; such cases were not uncommon
during the war.
* * * *
Last year my gladioli plants were diseased,
and the flowering was poor. How should I
treat new bulbs to correct the trouble this
year ? —673.
Apply a heavy dressing of agricultural lime to
the beds and let them fallow for at least three
weeks. Then dig them over, adding well-rotted
manure (with a little sand to heavy soil). When
planting new bulbs sprinkle naphthalene over
them. Lime and tobacco-dust (equal parts) or
Drymac should be dusted every week on the
foliage, and heavy watering avoided. Plenty of
liquid manure when the flower-spikes begin
to show will considerably improve the blooms.
* * * *
Method of cutting and propagating green
shoots from dahlia tubers? —s46.
Immerse the clumps of tubers in a bucket of
water for half a day and then plant them in
a warm corner of the garden in rich soil or in
a glass-frame. Green shoots will appear in
three or four weeks. Select the firmest of the
shoots, cut them off just above the two lowest
“eyes” near the tubers. Place them in pots
or boxes containing at least 25 p.c. of sand and
keep them well watered. A glass-frame will
help the cuttings to root quickly, but the cover-
ing should be lifted occasionally in order to help
the plants to harden off.
* * * *
When should poinsettias be pruned? Best
way to strike cuttings of this shrub ? —499.
Poinsettias should be cut back severely as
soon as the flower bracts fall. Remove all
spindly cross-growing branches and leave the
strong limbs not higher than 4ft. Endeavor to
make the shrubs grow shapely, especially in the
early stages. Work a big helping of fertiliser
or stable refuse about the plants after the prun-
ing and next year’s flowering will be improved.
Short pieces of sturdy wood are most suitable
for striking. These should be buried in sandy
soil, leaving only two “eyes” out of the ground.
Keep the soil moist about the cuttings and it
will assist the poinsettias to root.
* * * *
I have a number of bush roses and native
briars. How can I graft roses to the briars to
make standard bushes, when should the briars
be shifted to the required position, and at what
time of the year should the work be done ?
663.
Select straight pieces of briar 36in. long and
plant them in sandy loam in February or
March. Remove all the “eyes” except two at
the top of the cuttings; these are retained to
keep the sap moving. The cuttings should be
rooted in November and ready for budding.
Make a T-like slit near the top of the briar-
stock, lift the bark and insert in it buds taken
from the limbs of the roses, being careful to
leave a piece of the rose-wood with the bud.
See that the bark on the briar is not damaged
or broken, which will let in air and water and
cause rot. Bind the stem with raffia or tape
above and below the bud. When the bud
“takes,” lift the binding gradually. The briars
sh<puld be watered regularly to keep the sap
rising. After the buds have taken remove the
“eyes” left at the top of the briars. If the
briars are not grown in the correct position in
the garden, they can be.removed in the follow-
ing June or July.
(1) Should a motor-boat propeller be direct-
coupled to the engine shaft or will better results
be obtained with a two-to-one reduction gear
which will reduce the propeller r.p.m. from
1500 to 750 ? (2) Are propellers of the same
pitch rated by their circumference ? (3) Suitable
material for outer bearing of propeller shaft ?
—649.
(1) Depends upon the class of motor-boat.
If a speedboat, the propeller should be direct-
coupled to the shaft; if a slow-moving boat,
such as a cruisef, a two-to-one reduction gear
will be necessary. (2) No. The pitch of a pro-
peller of given size will depend upon the class
of boat, a speedboat requiring a big pitch and
a work-boat a lower pitch. (3) The usual
material is metal, but lignum vitae (a very hard
wood) is used for special jobs, and rubber cut-
less for speedboats.
* * * *
How can I restore the color of the grey hood
on my niotor-car, which has become almost
white ? —689.
Amateur treatment of hoods is not recom-
mended. If you care to take the risk, use
ordinary packet dye specially made for heavy
materials, select a dark grey, mix it rather
strongly and immerse the hood or paint on with
a brush; study directions carefully, as most
materials must be thoroughly cleaned and well
wetted before dyeing.
* * * *
Method of preparing old-fashioned bakers’
liquid yeast from formula containing hops? —
There are many recipes, some of them a
little complicated; this is a useful one which
is simple: Into a quart jug put loz. dried hops
(bought in packets from the grocer) and one
tablespoon sugar; pour on three cups boiling
water and set aside to cool. When cold strain
add one teaspoon flour and bottle. Stand in a
warm place, usually on a mantelpiece over a
fuel stove in winter; ready for use in 12 hours;
one breakfast cup of this yeast should make
four loaves.
, Brief Answers.
A.G.8.8.: Write to the Registrar-General of
Births, Marriages and Deaths, H.M. General
Register House, Edinburgh. A fee of 20s.
(British currency) is payable for a search of all
the Scottish registers. Extracts may be obtained
on payment of a small fee. When writing
you should give all the information in your pos-
session, full name, approximate dates of birth
and marriage, etc. No restriction is imposed as
to the relationship of the applicant to the person
registered... .R. 8.: No foundation whatever;
investigations have shown that the minute
amounts of aluminium which may be dissolved
by the juices of food are entirely innocuous.
In any case, aluminium is found in small quan-
tity in certain normal human tissues.,. .H.P.:
There is nothing in the insulation theory; and
the rubber heel has such great advantages in
lessening shock to the feet and so to the other
organs of the body that there is no need to
stress its virtues K.G.: (1) There is no open
market for the sale of Angora wool. Angora
rabbit-breeders sell their raw wool and spun
wool privately. Under such conditions as
might be expected, the price fluctuates consider-
ably. (2) Angora-rabbit breeding is permitted
only in the Counties of Cumberland and
Camden. In these counties it is necessary to
obtain a license, issued by the Department of
Agriculture, Sydney W.J.S.: No books avail-
able on subject.... R.L.H.: Would prefer to see
your work before giving advice J.M.P.;
The characters are all fictitious... .A.S.R.:
Promenade is obtainable in book form from
leading booksellers; price, Bs. 6d. The other
serial has not been published as a b00k....
E.P.S.: By arrangement with the London
“Times” the use of that type face in Australia
is reserved exclusively for The Bulletin....
G. : Know of no process or method of
preparing skins that would not come under
tanning. Skins are tanned with many different
materials, such as vegetable tannin, as obtained
from barks, wood, etc., chrome and alum salts,
fish oils, formaldehyde and combinations of
these materials... .C.H.: Detailed account too
long for reprint in this page. You could obtain
copies of daily papers containing report of in-
quest and trial... .W.E.S.: He is looking at a
portrait of his son F.P.H.: Write to the
various State Agricultural Departments....
C.C.M.: Unable to give any information as
to the standing of the firm or the results
obtained from the treatment; catarrh is not a
disease of itself, but merely the sign of any
one of many inflammatory troubles in the nose,
throat and upper air passages. The use of
volatile oils by inhalation often brings a measure
of temporary relief, but no permanent cure is
possible unless the basic cause is removed....
H. : White Castile soap in shavings 20z., am-
monia water 20z., bay rum or Cologne water
loz., glycerine loz., water 12oz. Dissolve the
soap in the water by means of heat; when
nearly cold, stir in the other ingredients
M.K.: The point is not covered by any of the
standard authorities on contract, but it is logi-
cal that ace should rank high, as in the game.
... .E.T.: Consult local Labor Exchange for
information about the Government’s subsidised
trainee apprenticeship scheme for young men
21 to 25, or consult the Vocational Guidance
Officer, Sydney Technical College," Harris-
street, Ultimo, on Monday or Thursday even-
ing from 6to 7.30 p.m L.F.: Send your ex-
tensive request to the secretary, Victorian
Cricket Assoc., Flinders-street and Collins-
place, Melbourne M.K.: The secretary of
the Australian Board of Control, Pirie-street,
Adelaide, may be able to supply the various
occupations of the Australian players now in
England. For similar information regarding
the English players, write to the secretary,
Marylebone C.C., Lord’s Cricket Ground, St.
John’s Wood, London, N.W.B G.T.C.:
M.C.C. rule 19 states: “If after the fourth
Test match neither side has \£on two matches,
or if the results are even, the fifth Test shall
be played to a finish.” In the event of each
team winning one match, the ashes shall remain
with the holders... .B.B.: Cannot find any
statement that Oldfield had resigned from first-
class cricket prior to the selection of the present
Australian XI in England... .H.V.8.: The just-
finished tour of the All-Black R.U. team in-
cluded three Test matches, and M.L. won them
all. The third Test at Sydney was the last
match by the tourists in Australia... .A.W.:
Rudyard Kipling had three children, of whom
the eldest, a daughter, died young in New York;
his only son was killed at the battle of Loos,
at the age of 18. There is one surviving
daughter. He died January 18, 1936
H.H.H.: William Annis was an engraver in
mezzotint, and was working in London in the
year 1803, as appears from the date of a
number of his prints. His full period, how-
ever, would appear to be 1790-1819. He en-
graved all the prints mentioned by you, which
were published in 1803 in colors, and vary in
price from £3l 10s. upwards. Annis also en-
graved several plates of Turner’s Liber
Studiorum.... H.R.1.: Land held under a
miner’s right in N.S.W. is rateable by a muni-
cipal council... .L.W.H.: Make inquiries among
your neighbors as to the instruments which
have given satisfaction in your district. Also
get in touch with the leading pianoforte ware-
houses in Brisbane. Any of them will sell an
instrument under a definite guarantee against
defect in construction or workmanship....
C.D.W.C.: Copies sell for 30s. each when they
turn up in Sydney J.D.: (1) A company
limited in the number of its members and in
practice almost exclusively confined to the con-
version of a family business or partnership into
a company. It is exempt from compliance with
many of the provisions which apply to other
companies. (2) In a trading company the lia-
bility of members for the debts of the com-
pany may be either unlimited or limited by
shares, which is the most usual form of lia-
bility. In the latter case when the company is
formed a Memorandum of Association is drawn
up setting out the objects of the company, a
declaration that the liability of members is
limited and the amount of its registered capital
divided into shares of a fixed amount.


“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
N
4T
When
a Woman
tells you:
that perhaps she
should not boast,
but her teeth are
very white,
and she has used
nothing but
Calvert’s since she
was twelve,
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth il
w\Aß>f
&}?u\
a* 1
tff
o
a
wet
vs.*
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Lowest-Priced Completely
Equipped Utilities
'"WWWWWW
• :
■
V-8s
[BODIES *1
all-steeu
£304
10H.P. Utilities from £250
EACH completely equipped model in the wide
Ford Utility Range, whether V-8 or 10 H.P.
series, has extra features that give extra value
without extra cost.
CHECK THESE V-8 VALUE FEATURES. Smooth,
long lived, economical V-8 engine. Cast steel
crankshaft with bearings proved in heavy duty
truck service. Aluminium cylinder heads and
manifold. Dual carburetion all tending to
economical operation (Owners report over 20
m.p.g.). Three-quarter floating rear axle with
straddle mounted pinion. Rugged X type and
box section frame. Super-safety self-energising
mechanical brakes of 186 sq. in. Braking area
ensures stopping in 25 feet from 30 m.p.h.
Safety glass all round (except Van rear door).
CHECK THIS COMPLETE V-8 EQUIPMENT.
Oil bath air cleaner dual carburettor four
hydraulic double acting shock absorbers front
bumper bar all steel closed bodies with venti-
la ting windscreen safety glass all windows driv-
ing compartment 6.00 x 16 tyres adjustable
seats. 34 ton units are equipped with free
shackled auxiliary rear springs and 6.50 x 16
6-ply tyres.
TEST A FORD UTILITY ON YOUR OWN JOB:
Your local Ford dealer will gladly place a unit
at your disposal to test (without cost or obliga-
tion, of course). See him soon. Convenient
purchase terms available.
CHASSIS PRICES from . . . £2OO
F. 0.8. Ford Plant, Plus Sales Tax
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. in Vic.)
FORD Utilities
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
ĵ
V-8 PANEL VAN One-piece
steel roof, steel sides and floor
channels with new girder-type
body construction. Full width
front seat. 6.00 x 16 6-ply tyres.
F274.24L
A MIXED GRILL.
“8.5.”: De Rougemont told one of
the innumerable Leichhardt yarns. On
a “walkabout” from the Cambridge Gulf
down centre to the Warburton Ranges,
he came across a half-caste woman who
told him she was Leichhardt’s daughter.
Continuing his travels, De Rougemont
stumbled on a cairn erected by the lost
explorer ; it bore an inscription which,
unfortunately the stone being of a
friable nature had weathered beyond
complete legibility. Owing to a certain
substantiation of many of his natural-
history yarns, De R. during the last
couple of decades has received some
slight degree of credence, but it is prob-
able that in the main he was only a
superb hedonist.
* * * *
“Chi Chi”: If Arthur Griffith had
read Lancelot Hogbin’s Half-Caste a
little more attentively he should have
understood that the whole purpose of
the book was to try to prove that there
was no smear in the tarbrush (B.
10/8/’3B). . As a matter of strict fact
neither Arthur Griffith nor myself, nor
anyone else, belongs to pure white stock.
Every European race has hybridised its
blood with Mongoloid and negro stocks.
* * * *
“1066”: A generation ago the cry was
all for the “economic interpretation” of
history, but that didn’t turn out so hot,
because the interpreters went one better
than the old historians, most of whom
were out to “dish the Whigs” or “show
up the Tories,” and produced straight-
out political propaganda. Now, if some
Australian educationists have their
way, history will be “humanised.” Can’t
see any more necessity for it than for
the humanisation of geography and not
nearly as much as for the humanisation
of grammar. And it’s difficult to see
how it can be done without taking liber-
ties with the facts. Carlyle, in Past and
Present, did what was acclaimed a fine
humanising job with the Chronicle of
Jocelyn de Brakelond, but all that the
sage added were moral reflections. In the
hands of rearrangers less respectful of
facts than Carlyle the result might not be
so negatively innocuous. Let’s teach the
kids the facts, as accurately as these can
be ascertained, and leave glosses to the
fictioneers.
* * * *
“Nem”: Who was it said no flower
is found that produces the three cardinal
colors. The nemesia, found in suburban
gardens all over Australasia, produces
red, blue and yellow flowers.
* * * *
“T.”: Strange that no newspaper
printed the words in which P. J. Lynch
took leave of public life, after 34 of his
71 years:—
Every man and woman in this country
with a mind to think and a heart to feel
must appreciate to the full the efforts that
have been made in the past to ensure for
us such a splendid measure of freedom and
liberty as we enjoy to-day, without any
striving on our part. It is our duty to
see that this precious heritage shall be
held by us in close keeping, so that we
may pass it on to our children and our
children’s children.
The Senate’s late President has retired
“to commune with Mother Nature in the
Western State, glad in the knowledge
that I have been associated with so
many good men who have loaded me
with their bounty in the way of kindly
commendation.”
“K.N.”: One of the oldest buildings in
Sydney to-day is an old stone store in
Raphael-lane, at the rear of No. 45
Phillip-street. It was part of the original
Government House, which stood at the
corner of Phillip and Bridge streets, where
the Government Architect’s offices are
now. Parts of the wall which enclosed
the grounds of Government House are
to be seen, too, in Raphael-lane, the
mortar as good as ever, though it has
stood since 1805, when that Govern-
ment House was built. At that time and
for many years after, Bridge-street was
a street of homes with large gardens.
Where Dalgety’s now stands was one of
these gardens. After Government House
had been rebuilt on its new site, Poul-
teney’s Hotel stood where the Australian
Club is now. This was the haunt of the
pure merinos, while Petty’s, built in 1835,
was where the younger squatters spent
their cash. Pfahlert’s was a commercial
man’s hotel, famous for its good meals,
and the Royal, in George-street, behind
the Palace Theatre, was the rendezvous
of country visitors. Behind it was the
Royal Victoria Theatre, and the high
jinks of Sydney Town took place in one
or other or in both of these historic build-
ings. The Royal was demolished about
20 years ago.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
E.S.: “Rations” short... .C.H.P.: Glory-
story hoary... .L. 8.: You overrate the import-
ance of being “earnest”... .M.L.: Elsewhere
again... .L.H.: Know rhymes are hard to find,
but that’s no excuse for writing “tee-tee-ti-toe-
tum”... .8.E.W.: Just a slanging match....
J. : As you suggest, “Huh!” would be the
appropriate title... .C.R.S.: “And here he
paused to heave a sigh”... .J.McK.: We keep
a pile of rocks to chuck at all “City Lights.”
E.B.: Rattled the door-handle... .A.G.:
And “slightly dazed” we be, t 00... .D.McF.:
Left at the barrier... .J.L.C.: No bid....
M.H.S.: Little Ermintrude coming home to be
spanked... .J.R.: Sending shears to help the
good work... .M.L.8.: Not only the binder
needs “frenzied efforts at repairing”... .M.E.:
School mag.’s the place for that M.J.T.:
Whash all that about? G.B. Publishable,
but used that “writing” image about a month
ago M.D.: It’s not exactly arresting
A.W.R.: It has rarely been put more strikingly:
Oh! if only one of us
Could away from all the fuss....
H.Q.: Neither “’ate” nor “luv” it
K. : Mufch too thin and worn....W.R.
(London): It’s got a hollow ring R.C.G.:
“Fetish” came close... .J.D.S.: There aren’t
any new angles to that murder H.W.D.:
We, too, were “flayed by anguish” at the
thought of “Pattie, the darling girlie, away in
that terra incognita at the mercy of mad
Abdul”....L. van A.: Well off the mark....
E. Try it on a women’s magazine....
C. : Quite right... .E.M.M.: Not up....
F. : Too tearful for us; try them on the
flappers... .A.V.H.: “Mirage” is right
D. : Don’t like “dare-devil cat burglars.”
J.C.: Undernourished W.J.: You’ve
enough for a novel there J.K.H.: Not far
0ff.... J.R.: Too slight... .J.W.: Tamely
handled, and it fizzles out badly H.W.:
Commonplace N.C.M.: More suited to an
English magazine F. 8.: All right for those
still in their teens... .J.W. (Northcote): Onions
will not appear on our menu P.D.M.: Bur-
lesque is very thin W.D.: No V.C.:
Pretty-pretty A.8.C.: Too remote
A.P.M.: Write about things you know....
J.D.: Harrowing... .W.M.R.: Yours, too
P.McD.: You’ll place that one easily enough—•
elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.E.M.: Scratchy linework and a jest that
never gets started... .H.J.W.: No room for
your saxophonist... .8.L.: Have another look
at the arms... .G.S.C.: Wash drawing is muddy
and streaky....H.M.U.: Idea is far-fetched, and
the sketch leaves a lot to be desired... .H. 8.:
As humorous as a weather chart... .8.F.: We’ve
seen that beach beauty before J.H.D.: You
forgot to send the gag L. 8.: Looks as if
you dipped a cactus in ink and hurled it at
the paper G.F.: One of the oldest of the
would-be-suicide-who-changed-his-mind school.
. ...G.K.8.: Harsh linework ruled it 0ut....
E.V.: You’ve a poor eye for distances.... J.K.:
The two-heads style of joke drawing has long
been abandoned... .P.P.: A little more confi-
dence in your line and you should do we 11....
J.P.: It takes an expert to get away with that
seemingly rough-and-ready style... .A.J.H.: Not
a grin J.F.T.: That joke is a “Punch”
classic... .E.W.S.: Put him on to something
original... .Anon: We, too, would have been
ashamed to sign our name to that prison sketch.
A.B.L.: No hope for faint pencil scrib-
blings on letter-pad paper... .M.W.: Balloons
tied to characters’ mouths are 0ut....H.P.:
When did you last see a bull? W.W.: Yes,
David Low was about your age when he first
sent a drawing to The Bulletin, but you’re
no David Low... .K.S.W.: An insignificant
effort... .K.T.: Still in the kindergarten stage.
M.A.: No market for that type of He-She
gag nowadays.;. .F.P.: Might have passed in
the days when aeroplanes were novelties
G.D.: You’re 100 p.c. better with the pen than
the brush... .C.S.P.: We want black-and-white
sketches, not color drawings 8.L.: Not up.
.... H.G.: Try it on a flappers’ paper.


Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
HP
%
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
ĵ
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505.
mVEet
m
;
f
\[s^
The Canadian
Australasian route to
Europe blends delight-
fully the vibrant,
youthful vitality of
Canada and the lan-
guid, unspoiled charm
of the South Sea
Islands.
Monthly sailings
via New Zealand,
Fiji, Hawaii and
Canada.
For full information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.),
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS .
XXV.
Mr. Minogue’s belief in a rebirth of
prosperity for boxing survived repeated
post-war disappointments, and Terry
was instructed to keep going in Perth till
the pugilistic boom materialised. Hence
he spent the greater part of 1919 in that
city.
He was there when Mr. Pew returned
from the Peace Conference, full of pride
in his achievement and of stories about
Clemenceau and Woodrow Wilson.
Mac Sherry had made friends among
the politicians, and he was one of the
guests at the Parliament House in Har-
vest-terrace when Mr. Pew was enter-
tained at that seat of legislation. The
Prime Minister had quitted his steamer
at Fremantle, and was spending a few
hours in Perth preparatory to continuing
his journey to Melbourne by train.
The little man was in high spirits.
The Peace Conference, as he described
it, was a contest of wits in which he
and those prime jokers “L.G.” and
Clemenceau had triumphed, especially
in deciding that Australia should re-
ceive the prize of New Guinea.
There had been stiffnecked opposition
in one quarter. When somebody asked
whether Australia would be willing to
let missionaries go wherever they pleased
in the mandated territory, he, Mr. Pew,
had replied that it would be perfectly
willing, if only for humanitarian reasons,
as the natives complained that the meat
supply often gave out. Even then “the
Deity” had refused to unbend.
Mr. Watteau'sat next to his Prime
Minister. At mention of “the Deity,”
Mr. Watteau wriggled uncomfortably in
his chair, and looked imploringly at the
newspapermen, who were busy with their
fountain-pens. One coldly returned Mr.
Watteau’s gaze ; it was Jack Blanket, the
editor of the Labor newspaper, the
“Toiler.”
“The Deity” was the President of the
United States. Mr. Pew’s other name
for him was “God Almighty.”
Mr. Pew had told the Peace Con-
ference bluntly that he would not re-
turn to Australia empty-handed.
“’Oo the blazes gave orders to submerge?"
“What,” said .“God Almighty,” “do
you mean to say that, if all the other
delegates decided that a particular
arrangement was best for the world,
Australia, which is only a small part
of the world, would not accept that
arrangement?” “That’s just about it,
Mr. President,” Mr. Pew had said to
“God Almighty.”
The speeches over, most of the people
in the room clustered about Mr. Pew,
but Mr. Watteau made straight for
the newspapermen. The daily-paper re-
porters were still at the table where
they had taken their notes. Mr. Blanket
had left it, and was chatting to Terry.
Having spoken earnestly to the daily-
paper men, Mr. Watteau came up to
them.
“Mr. Blanket, isn’t it?” Mr. Watteau
began. “We have met in Melbourne,
of course.”
Mr. Blanket courteously acknowledged
that they had met in Melbourne.
“Now, Mr. Blanket, you mustn’t take
any notice of those facetious things Mr.
Pew said. You know he was speaking
among friends.”
“I’m not a friend.”
“Well, you’re not an enemy, anyway.
It’s not in you to be an enemy, Mr.
Blanket, I know that. And it wouldn’t
do for the country to report Mr. Pew’s
speech just as he made it. So I’m sure
you will tone it down a bit—leave out
those references to ‘the Deity.’ ”
“I’ll give you no promise.”
“Now, Mr. Blanket, think it over
and”
“I’ll think it over. Nothing more, is
there, Mr. Watteau? Good day, and a
pleasant trip back to Melbourne.”
Mr. Watteau’s arguments prevailed in
daily-newspaper offices, but the next
issue of the “Toiler” came out with a
report of Mr. Pew’s speech “just as
he made it.”
Now and then Terry went to Fre-
mantle to see troopships come in with
homing soldiers. His mission on one
of these occasions was to welcome back
his brother, who, though twice wounded,
had come through the war in pretty
good shape ; and on other occasions
he met old Sydney friends and acquain-
tances.
Talking with returned warriors in the
train that bore them from Fremantle
to Perth, he found many of them keen
oii going on the land.
Those from New South Wales had
already been informed that a clean dis-
charge and the mere expression of a
desire for a rural life would qualify
them for ownership of a fine new farm
at their grateful country’s expense.
On the ocean side of the railway,
a few miles from Fremantle, was a sign-
board which always dashed the spirits
of these embryo farmers, though it drew
shouts of laughter from companions who
mistrusted the promises of Governments.
The inscription in huge letters was,
“Training School for Returned-Soldier
Poultry-Farmers.” There were no build-
ings in sight nor any sign of life: nothing
but a dreary expanse of whitey-black
sand, with some twisted trees, stunted
shrubs and withered plants, too poor
to nourish a goat. It was a picture
of complete desolation.
That signboard was a grim emblem
of the fate that awaited many an
aspiring agriculturist.
(To be continued.)


SHE DID NOT LIKE A
FAT HUSBAND
Wanted Him to Regain His
Athletic Figure.
Like many a former athlete, this man began
to put on weight as soon as he was forced to
give up his usual exercise, and his wife was
not very pleased when she saw how fat her
husband was getting. Read how he got his
weight down:—
“My husband—up to three years ago—took
part in every kind of athletic game. Then busi-
ness responsibilities left him less and less time
for exercise. As a result, his weight increased
steadily, until, at 5 ft. 8 ins. he weighed 14
stone and a half. I persuaded him to take
Kruschen Salts, which had been recommended
for getting his weight down. At the end of the
first week he had lost 2 lbs. Now, after four
months, he is 26 lbs. lighter, and has taken four
inches off his waist measurement.”—(Mrs.)
W.B.J.
Kruschen Salts does not reduce you overnight.
But taken regularly over a period of time—■
with a modified diet and gentle exercise—half-a-
teaspoonful in a glass of hot water every
morning before breakfast will take away un-
healthy flesh and restore your figure to its
normal weight.
<?o\s Co GOOD
SMOOTH SHAVE
6
v^y.
6
BEST
BRITISH
BLADE
Sole Agents: JOUBERT £» JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
m
X
THE'
NEW
m
Yfr
Veedol Motor Oil has earned its world-wide reputation from years
of successful service in every corner of the globe. It has
placed at the command of motor users a permanent
lubrication ... an oil that cannot drain away
from the working parts of the engine
because it clings to the
surface.
AND NOW COMES THE NEW EXTRA MILEAGE VEEDOL.
Whether yog ore hustling through o 1,000 mile trip or
stopping many times during the day . . . either below
freezing or over boiling point your engine stays 100%
lubricated with the New Extra Mileage Veedol Motor Oil
There's no eorbon, gum or sludge formers in the New Extro
Mileage Veedol . . . after using it you will never let any
other oil go into the crankcase of your car. There is no
motor oil in the world today to compare with the New
Extro Mileage Veedol Motor Oil.
100% PURE PENNSYLVANIA AT ITS BEST.
Obtainable at all leading garages and at no greater cost
than any other oil.
PTUNE OIL COMPANY
P T Y . LTD.
INCORPORATED in N.S.W.
LL STATES
JOHN MACARTHUR
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
JUSTICE EVATT’S Rum Rebellion,
reviewed in B. 29/6/’3B, contains
several aspects of a historical
novel, and not the least of these
is its magnificent portrayal of the prin-
cipal villain around 1808, John Mac-
arthur. His picture of the founder of the
Australian merino-wool industry is prob-
ably the best likeness that has ever been
drawn of that remarkable man, and as
a whole-souled piece of debunking has
seldom been equalled. Anyone who reads
the book must close it with a realisation
that here, at any rate, is the real man.
Macarthur was a long way short of
being what he is sometimes represented
in a country principally interested in
fine-wool growing. It is only among
sheep-worshippers, pure and simple, that
he may be estimated as a sort of patron
saint of this country’s prosperity, but he
might equally'well be regarded by others
as the first and one of the most eminent
of Australian “go-getters.”
When he wasn’t feathering his own
nest it would almost seem that he was
asleep in bed. Every hour of his waking
moments was devoted to “go-getting,”
and he allowed neither circumstances, nor
human feeling, nor other people’s in-
terests to interfere with the mostly suc-
cessful realisation of his plans. First
and last and always he regarded the suc-
cess of John Macarthur as being the only
justification for the success of British
colonisation in this continent. He was
23 years old when he came here and
67 when he died, but no one before
or since, taking the circumstances of his
times into consideration, has better fur-
thered his own material prosperity in this
country.
Quite unwittingly, Macarthur describes
his own character in a letter to his wife,
written from England in 1809, when he
discusses one of his sons. “Under this
softness,” he says, “I can discover an
indescribable fierceness of independence
and an obstinacy to pursue what he has
once determined on, which neither reason
nor dread of future consequence are
likely to operate upon him to relax.” He
was himself always affectionate and as
soft as might be with his wife and their
children, but with no one else.
As a soldier he was cranky and muti-
nous—he fought a savage duel with his
commanding officer—and as a citizen
essentially rebellious against any check
placed upon his personal advancement.
And in his dealings with the Governors
who tried to curb him he was extraordi-
narily ruthless. Nothing was too bad for
’ Hunter, for King or for Bligh, and
nothing he could do to thwart or harass
their Governments was too mean or too
petty for his employment.
John Macarthur was one of the ablest
men the country has ever known, and
he did most valuable work, incidentally,
for Australia. But he cared not two
straws about the risk of Ponging the
infant colony into the horrors of civil
war when he made up his mind to
dispose of Bligh, any more than he
had hesitated to libel behind their backs
his principal victim’s two predecessors.
He was unscrupulous, selfish and pitiless.
Rum Rebellion makes nothing clearer
than this.
“So much competition these days, sahib, you've gotter keep up to date."
“Turoar”: “Me an’ Tarry Tom,” said
Old Bob, “was up in the Baw Baws doin’
a. bit uv tree-failin’. I never seen trees
like ’em. Yair, they was so big we don’t
’aveter take no tent ner anythink, fer the
scarf we cuts is big enough ter camp in.
An’ when we nails up a few strips uv
bark an’ cuts winders an’ puts in a fire-
place, yer don’t want nothink better. O’
course, we gotter shift every few weeks
when we starts on a noo tree, but we
ain’t growling. There’s no sloggin’ four
or five mile after knock-orf, an’ then
we’re workin’ under cover, which is
more’n most blokes in the bush does.
Matterer fact, the scarf’s so roomy Tarry
decides ter bring ’is missus an’ the fam’ly
erlong fer company. That makes every-
think sergarnio, fer Tarry’s missus is a
good cook. But it’s only a fortnight be-
fore we’re batchin’ agin. One night
there’s a terrific storm, an’ a cloud busts
right over us. Bein’ six foot orf the
ground, we ain’t worryin’ till the blasted
tree starts swingin’ in the gale. Still we
reckons she oughter stand, seein’ the cut’s
no more’n ’arf-way through. But, cripes,
down she comes with a fearful smash.
Mrs. Tarry’s awful upset erbout it. She
says she ain’t runnin’ the risk uv the kids
dyin’ uv nermonyer with gittin’ wet
through in the middle uv the night no
more, an’ nex’ day she yanks ’em orf
’ome. Yer can’t beat wimmen fer makin’
er noise oyer nothink a-tall, can yer?,”


THE OTHER
FWLLOW'S MIND.
The First Prize of £3/3/- offered for this week’s Other Fellow’s Mind Com-
petition has been won by a South Australian.
The winner will also be paid at A.J.A. rates, and so will every other contributor
whose matter appears on this page.
The competitions will run for six months. Every week there will be a first prize
of £3/3/-, in addition to A.J.A. rates paid also to all competitors whose paragraphs
appear and every three months there will be an additional prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it will be possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster.
Australians for the Mercantile
Marine
The favorable conditions obtaining
in the Australian mercantile marine
have militated against the growth of
a native-born race of seafarers by
attracting qualified seamen from all
parts of the globe. Yet a native-born
race of seafarers we must have.
Few foreign vessels trading with us
will employ any but their own
nationals. In odd cases casuals are
taken on for the run home ', there
the venturer is usually paid off and
left stranded. And for the stranded
one it is a tough proposition to find
a ship, even as a passage-worker at
a shilling a month.
As regards officers, the position is
worse. Though there are willing boys
enough and parents ready with pay-
ments for apprenticeships, vacancies
are strictly limited. It takes a mighty
big boot to lift a boy into a vessel
on the Australian Register, especially
as head offices are chiefly in one port.
Why shouldn’t Australia have a train-
ing-ship for officers of the mercantile
marine? Such a system finds favor
with the Germans and the Danes, and
there are still sailing vessels afloat
which, with moderate expenditure,
could be suitably equipped. And'
surely arrangements could be made
with local merchants for regular
charters. In addition, British com-
panies engaged in the Australian trade
might be induced to make provision
for some Australians, both before and
abaft the mast. In some instances,
perhaps, this could be made a con-
dition of contracts. —Jae.
“Jae” is H. Guthrie, Devon-street,
Largs Bay, S.A. He gets the first
prize of £3 3s., plus space rates.
Historic Buildings
Living as I do in the oldest town
in Australia, I am constantly hearing
that so-and-so building is going to be
pulled down and a modern one
erected. “Isn’t it a shame? Such historic
value and mellowness that can never
be replaced!” you hear people say.
What humbug! Who wants to replace
or preserve such old, damp, ugly make-
shifts for homes, built when materials
were scarce and when the builders evi-
dently had no idea of beauty of shape
or the will to make houses beautiful.
Stone structures, cold, hard, severe and
absolutely square, one doesn’t need to
be told they are convict-built.
In my mind lurks the- idea that the
publicity given to the threatened de-
molition of old houses is intended to act
as a deterrent on a zealous inspector or
local council who might wish to wipe
out the blots and eyesores that stand in
the way of progress. Gee Willie
(N.S.W.). '
The Magazine Ban
Why the ban’on certain overseas litera-
ture when we have Australian publi-
cations fit only- for the rubbish-heap?
Crime stories and sex stories certainly
make far better reading than the crude
jokes and Adam-and-Eve illustrations we
see in rags dished up here in Australia.
Crime stories are written to prove that
crime doesn’t pay —for every would-be
gangster there are probably 99 youths
who have the ambition to become great
detectives. Sex stories are written to
warn our girls against the pitfalls of tak-
ing too much for granted, and the Good
Lord knows modern misses need all the
advice obtainable.
We like our Bulletin and “Mirror,”
but we also obtain keen enjoyment from
English and American mags. Let the
censors start with Australian tripe.
There’s plenty in circulation. —C. H. P.
(Q-).
The Cunningham Plan
To engineer a plan which would in-
crease internal wealth sufficiently to
balance the increase of defence expen-
diture is perhaps beyond our politicians,
but we have definite proof that it is not
beyond private individuals.
Witness Scartwater station. It was
founded by Cunningham, of Strathmore
station, for the benefit of returned sol-
diers apd their dependants. Profits are
lent free of interest, repayable when con-
venient, to approved returned soldiers'to
enable them to establish themselves in
some pursuit or other. Thus £6525 has
gone out and £4966 has come in as re-
payments, and the £4966 has been lent
again.
In addition to the loan trust fund, an
educational fund has been established.
Scholarship awards totalling £260 have
been made, and grants aggregating £197
have been given to assist in the higher
education of children whose parents are
in poor financial circumstances.
Such is the Cunningham venture, and
it will grow stronger financially with the
years. Mr. Lyons, on the other hand, is
following a policy of taxation and bor-
rowing that will land us back in the de-
pression.—D. E. B. tO.I.
Why Not a March?
The R.A.N. took two tunes, “Waltz-
ing Matilda” and “On the Road to
Gundagai,” and made a good march.
It has been adopted as the official march
of the Australian Navy when abroad,
and is played on occasions such as
King’s Birthday reviews.
The Air Force has a march with a
swinging tune, pleasant and easy to
march to. This is not so well known.
The Army has to depend upon the
old Colonel ; and it is time “Colonel
Bogey” was placed on the retired list.
Why not have a competition amongst
the musical-minded Bulletin readers
for a march dedicated to the Austra-
lian Army?—M. Douglas McFarlane
(N.S.W.).
Preference Challenged
Other things being equal, the Digger
gets preference. But how can a Digger
of 40 or more who went through hell in
his early manhood be considered the
equal of a man who did not go through
such hell?
If secretaries of R.S. employment
bureaux were candid they would admit
that most of the men on their books
are almost unemployable. It is not their
fault but their misfortune, the result
of their war service. Yet Governments
and municipal bodies and business people
are expected to give such men prefer-
ence. In other words, they are expected
to decrease the efficiency of their under-
takings in order to relieve the nation
of some of its responsibilities.
It is not commonsense. The respon-
sibility of giving a decent living to such
men is the nation’s responsibility and
duty, not those of individuals or bodies.
I suggest that unemployed Diggers be
placed on special sustenance, the rates
to be strictly in accordance with depen-
dants and not in any ratio to their
war pensions, if any.
Unpensioned men and those classed
at, say, up to 50 p.c. incapacity could
be given work to suit their strength and
ability, while those with over 50 p.c.
incapacity would not -be required to
work. The scheme could be easily
handled and administered by munici-
palities or R.S.L. sub-branches.
An alternative plan for incapacitated
men would be for men on 50 p.c. pension
or over whose condition had not im-
proved during five years to be given
full pensions ; then they would be taken
off the labor market.
Surely the most rabid supporter of
preference does not expect such prefer-
ence to continue until the last wornout
Digger has faded away. The question
will have to be faced sooner or later,
and the sooner it is faced the better for
all concerned, whether returned men or
not. — Jesmond (Vic.).
“Aliens Come; Britons Go”
Don’t agree with the assertion (B.
10/ 8/ ’3B) that what Australia needs in
the immigration line is a swarm of
retired British Army officers, attracted
by low taxation and cheap living. These
superannuated Empire-builders could
never add to our permanent population.
Their families most of them already
grown up —would flock to England at
the mating season, if they had not stayed
there all along. In 30 years or so our
population “increase” would be counted
in tombstones. No; the maligned
“Southern European” has a decided
superiority. When he imports a wife
(and, potentially, several young Italian-
Australians) he is giving a pretty strong
guarantee that he intends settling for
life. Moreover, he has no dislike of
hard work in the tropics.—P. J. W. (Q.).
The Local Member
Dr. Shields, M.L.A., complains that, as
a member, he is expected to open every
bazaar in his electorate, subscribe to all
local cricket and football clubs, and
help aspirants for jobs in the public ser-
vice.. In addition, he is expected to ad-
vocate' spending as much of the tax-
payers’ money in his electorate as he
possibly can get, irrespective of the
national interest.
In law it is an offence for a litigant
to approach a judge or juryman privately.
Why should it not be an offence for an
elector to approach a member of Par-
liament for his private ends?
As for the bazaars, perhaps the best
remedy would be to have fewer mem-
bers with electorates so large that the
attempt to carry out such offices would
be impossible.— Onlooker (Vic.).
National Incubus
Take my case and multiply it by
thousands, and you will get some idea
of how we feel about the muddle the
Lyons Government is going to put us
into. I am in a lodge. If I am ill medi-
cine, doctor and a pound a week come
along. If I died my wife would receive
£35 funeral expenses. If my wife died
I would receive £lO. The lodge also
runs a special hospital fund. We pay a
guinea a year, and this entitles us to 13
weeks each at three guineas a week in
any hospital we care to enter.
What do we want with this “national”
damfoolishness? What the people of
this country need is an Unemployment
Insurance Act, long promised and now
farther off than ever. No man would
object to paying into a scheme that would
help him in time of unemployment. But
this thing the Government has foisted on
us is the limit! —O. N. C. (S.A.).
Friendly Societies
In B. 4/12/’32 I advocated more
liberal treatment for members of Friendly
Societies than the 16 weeks’ grace allowed
old and new alike.
Now the societies are to loom large
when National Insurance starts. The
Federal Government should insist, before
recognising them as “approved societies,”
that the equity of members who may
drop out be conserved, either by grant-
ing a paid-up but reduced death benefit
or by continuing full cover as long as
the member’s accumulated reserve will
allow. Life offices have done this over
45 years.
1 have paid £45 over 32 years for sick
and funeral fund alone, and my equity in
this, plus the interest it has earned dur-
ing accumulation, is worth more than
16 weeks’ grace, or should be.
There were 557,463 F.S. members in
Australia at 30/6/’35, mostly of the
working class, many of longer member-
ship than myself.— C. H. Regelsen,
L.I.C.A. (Q.).
Art in Country Homes
Artist Julian Ashton and Sydney’s
Lord Mayor propose to stimulate interest
in art and at the same time help artists
to dispose of their wares by running an.
art union
A better idea would be to attempt to
teach people that art has a place in their
lives and in their homes. During the
dozen years that 1 have lived in different
parts of rural N.S.W. I have entered the
homes of many comfortably-off land-
owners. Hardly any of them had a
decent picture on the walls. The “Stag
at Bay” panels and the “Highland
Cattle” still have their devotees.
It might be thought a hopeless task
to reach country dwellers and attempt to
cultivate their aesthetic tastes, but the
machinery lies ready to hand. The
Country Women’s Association is a body
that can exercise a tremendous influence
in rural homes.
Not only would the artists benefit by
tapping what is virtually a virgin mar-
ket, but an immense boon would be
conferred on many country people by
awakening in them a realisation that a
home can be a delight as well as a
shelter. — Ichabod Crane (N.S.W.).
“Steele Rudd’s” Characters
Long ago our family lived in a bark-
roofed house, with mud and whipstick-
pine walls and hessian ceilings covered
with Bulletin and “Weekly Times”
sheets, plastered on. The living-room
had a sft. fireplace, and on winter nights
father would stagger in with a 12in. log
that filled it and threw out enough heat
to roast a bullock. Mother used to sit
on one side and make clothes for us
kids; they used to fit where they hit.
Father would read out to us from The
Bulletin or the “W.T.”
A wonderful thing happened. On Our
Selection came out in book form, and
we sat, listened, laughed and followed the
fortunes of Dad, Mother, Dave, Sarah
and Dan. Those types now are great-
grandparents and grandparents, and the
grubbing and the clearing and the fenc-
ing are long since done. The holders to-
day are men and women who have in-
herited these places or bought them, and,
thanks to the struggles of their parents,
have been well educated at either State
or public schools, and in manners and
intelligence are the equals of their city
cousins. Yet Dad and Mum and Dave
have been resurrected and made sub-
jects of derisive laughter. “Steele Rudd”
must turn in his grave.— James J. Gor-
man (N.S.W.).
Rural Workers
Australian rural workers’ wages are
the lowest and their hours the longest in
the Empire, and that goes for all white
laborers. I have followed the plough in
Scotland and Canada, and I am writing
from experience.
A farmhand doesn’t consider himself
equal to a tradesman, but he considers
himself a skilled laborer and entitled to
conditions at least equal to the basic-
wage men.
How many holidays does he get? A
few days too wet to work, and if he’s a
dairy farmhand he has to turn out just
the same. He has his annual holidays
when he chucks his job.
If decent conditions were operating in
the country there would be no drift to
the cities ; but at present a farmhand has
to try for a job under award conditions
to live decently. If one gets married
and goes share-farming it that the
wife and kids have to slave in order to
keep themselves.
Take that popular topic—Defence,
The A.I.F. spoke highly of its bushmen,
and the famous county regiments of the
Old Country are mainly composed of
country lads. Australia could have the
same if she cared to make things better
for the rural worker. In Britain a farm-
hand can marry and rear a family.—
Sandy (Q.).
Bouquet for the Ladies
In spite of disparaging remarks about
the present-day fashions, there is about
life to-day something for which we ought
to be ready to thank the modern woman.
It is color. And the more miserable the
weather, the more drab the day, the
brighter seem to be the colors provided
by our womenfolk. And haven’t they a
cheering effect? There are leather coats
of sky-blue, emerald green and brightest
crimson. There are feminine “macks” of
every conceivable shade and hue. Even
umbrellas are losing ‘ their depressing
black, and are now either colored or
edged with color.
There are, too, bright little rainproof
hats, stockings of a million shades and
even colored rubber boots!
No service could be more laudable or
more appreciated than that of brighten-
ing our highways and byways at a time
when “sunny” Australia with its winter
garb on is doing its worst. — Senga (Vic.).


T7 his masterpiece is Perfection
the spirit he always serves.
£
4
Per
H
Me J/a/ne
JS
(D c GxUum’s
yAo ulfi/sjcyjs- ,
>ViV S if
lll**
&22t
(IFGallums
Scots CUbisk^
Xf,
( fawm '9*l) **•*«•
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF TOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
j
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(*Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PA<
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection of
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone.
Price 1/6
(Postage 2d. extra)
Obtainable
only
from
‘Kv>'
\\&
0
t*
oo
*v p
0
:^ s
o v^
/
#•’
# s '
$ \0 -V^S^tve
•••■ c »','S»">'6sS' c >"’ 0 ' 1


Life
Assurance
The Balance Wheel of
Life.
For the
BUILDING OF
YOUR HOME,
EDUCATION OF
YOUR CHILDREN,
LIQUIDATION OF
THE MORTGAGE.
Full particulars will
be forwarded on
application.
CITY MUTUAL CORNER,
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Life
Assurance
The only Business
Certainty
For the
PROTECTION OF
ESTATE OR
BUSINESS,
FAMILY INCOME,
SALARY CON-
TINUATION.
Full particulars will
be forwarded on
application.
be
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Purely Mutual, All Profits Belong to the Policy Holders.
Operates only in the Commonwealth of Australia.
Unsurpassed Reserves. Pays the Biggest Bonuses.
REPRESENTATIVES REQUIRED. WM. BENNETT, Managing Director.
