

Life
Assurance
The Balance Wheel of
Life.
For the
BUILDING OF
YOUR HOME,
EDUCATION OF
YOUR CHILDREN,
LIQUIDATION OF
THE MORTGAGE.
Full particulars will
be forwarded on
application.
CITY MUTUAL CORNER,
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Life
Assurance
The only Business
Certainty
For the
PROTECTION OF
ESTATE OR
BUSINESS,
FAMILY INCOME,
SALARY CON-
TINUATION.
Full particulars will
be forwarded on
application.
Tshe
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Purely Mutual, All Profits Belong to the Policy Holders.
Operates only in the Commonwealth of Australia.
Unsurpassed Reserves. Pays the Biggest Bonuses.
REPRESENTATIVES REQUIRED. WM. BENNETT, Managing Director.
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3044.
Wednesday, June 15, 1938,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
LIFE OF TOM COLLINS.
From the Hawthorn Press (Melbourne) comes a
well-written and well-produced booklet, The Life
Story of Joseph Furphy, by Edward E. Pescott, which
adds some interesting details to what is known of
the man who wrote under the name of Tom Collins
and produced in Such Is Life an undoubted classic of
Australian life and social thought. The author is
Joseph Furphy’s nephew by marriage, and the book
is from material supplied mainly by Mrs. Annie J.
Stewart, of Corop, Victoria, Furphy’s sister.
Pescott has restricted himself strictly to biographi-
cal data, but Tom Collins—like Henry Lawson —was
a writer who largely inhabited his fiction, and it is
surprising how often The Life Story of Joseph Furphy
is illuminated by some picture that springs to recol-
lection from Such Is Life and Rigby’s Romance.
Joseph Furphy’s earliest-known ancestor was a
Major Forsyth who went to Ireland to assist William
of Orange against James 11. Following William’s
success he was given a grant of land and settled down
as a farmer. He married, and had three daughters
who respectively married a Murphy, a Gilbert and
a Furphy. Many of their descendants survive in the
district.
Samuel Furphy, Joseph’s father, married Judith
Hare, the daughter of a neighboring farmer, and the
young pair sailed from Plymouth in the s.s. Argyle,
landing in Port Phillip on March 1, 1841. Aboard
their ship was George Gordon McCrae, also young
O’Farrell, who later became notorious for his attempt
on the life of the Duke of Edinburgh at Sydney.
The Furphys got work as a married couple with
a grazier, Mr. Anderson, of Anderson’s Creek. “They
and their employer walked out to the station, 20 miles
from Melbourne. There was no other white woman
on the station, and the other employees were ticket-
of-leave men. The blacks were numerous.”
After a year with Anderson the Furphys went
to Moonee Ponds and to Kangaroo Ground. A little
later Samuel Furphy worked on Ryrie’s Yering station
as head gardener. Here Joseph, second of five
children, was born in a house on ground now occu-
pied by the Yarra Glen State school. Samuel and
Judith Furphy were both educated persons, and their
children were put to their letters at an early age. The
Bible and Shakspeare comprised the family library.
At seven years of age Joseph could recite Shakspeare
by the page and Holy Writ by the chapter—which
discloses the source of that mock-pedantry with which
Tom Collins alternately baits and informs his reader.
Apparently Samuel Furphy could turn his hand
to other things than farming. At Kangaroo Ground
he heard the children in the lessons taught them by
their mother while he worked at shoemaking. “Shoe-
making at that time was all handwork, and the mother
assisted with the lighter stitching, done with pig bristles
and wax ends. Joseph and his elder brother John
learned to make wax ends, and used to put on their
little aprons after school and make the following day’s
supply.”
While at Yering, Anderson, Samuel Furphy’s
former employer, offered him a full partnership in
a station which he proposed to establish in a remote
part of the Western District, Anderson to pay all
expenses and stock the run. It was the chance of
Samuel Furphy’s life, but after talking it over with
Judith he decided that it would not be in the best
interests of his young children, and declined the offer.
Instead he joined his energies with those of his neigh-
bors in building a school and procuring a teacher —
Ross. He went into business for a while in Kyneton
as a hay and corn merchant, and a little later took up
farm land on his own account.
In Rigby’s Romance occurs an anecdote that
seems to be relevant to this period in general and the
youthful Joseph in particular:
On a summer morning, 23 years prior to this
encounter, a Victorian ratepayer sent one of the
arrows out of his quiver to muster some cows on the
common, eight or ten miles from home. In the seclusion
of the ranges this missile gathered as much wattle gum
as he could eat; then leaving his horse to feed with
the saddle on, he lay down in the shade, and became
immersed in a work of blood-and-thunder fiction which
his foresight had provided. After reading himself stupid,
he took a swim in an adjacent waterhole, then basked
in the sun for an hour, and finally dedicated his attention
to a likely-looking place, where the age-abraded apex
of a small rise showed abundance of shattered and
weather-beaten quartz. This was his style of mustering
cows.
Samuel Furphy bought a threshing-machine. John
went as apprentice to Messrs. Hutchinson and Walker ;
Joseph and his younger brother Isaac worked on the
farm, and after harvest went round the district with
the thresher. Both started writing poetry, and both
fell in love with the same girl, who was much older
than either. Isaac got a job as herdsman on Green
Hill common and turned himself out in breeches,
riding-boots and scarlet shirt. Joseph got even by
joining the volunteers, turning out in grey and red
uniform, with a sword. “But the lady tired of their
calf-love, and ultimately married a draper with no
poetic fire but some hard cash.” Perhaps this is the
inspiration of the lines Collins puts into the mouth
of “Colonel” Rigby when he is addressing the Mur-
rumbidgee fishing party, “There are eight of us here
to-night, and probably seven of the number are more
or less trashy heroes of romance.”
At this time Collins wrote “quite a stirring poem,”
“A Volunteer War Song,” and a long poem in many
cantos called “Childe Booth’s Pilgrimage,” descriptive
of life on a threshing-machine. He won the Kyneton
Literary Society prize of three pounds for “The Death,
of President Lincoln,” his first reward for literary
labor. He had two ledgers full of manuscript poems
which his mother gave away to persons who put small
value on them. They are lost.
Joseph got a job as enginedriver near Tylden.
Later he bought his own threshing-machine. While
travelling the district he met the “pretty, dainty little
French girl, Leonie Germain, fresh from a ladies’
school, and married her when she was 16 and he 23.”
Her mother, Madame Germain, transferred her farm
and vineyard to her son-in-law, who farmed it until
1868, when he, his father and brother Isaac each
selected 80 acres on Colbin Abbin station in the Lake
Cooper district. The selectors started with bark
houses.
Working early and late, Joseph soon made a new,
comfortable home. Inheriting his father’s passion for
gardening, within two years he had a beautiful flower
garden and a young orchard planted; also later on a
sweetbriar hedge round the ring fence of the selection.
Some of the sweetbriar hedge is still there, and clumps
of purple and white iris bloom every year on the road
opposite, where the little flower garden once was. There
was enough farm work to keep one man occupied
during daylight hours; much of his gardening was done
by moonlight.
About this time he met the Maoriland poet
Thomas Bracken, who also lived at Colbin Abbin, and
from there put out his first book of poems. In later
years Bracken called on Joseph Furphy when he was
working in his brother’s implement foundry at Shep-
parton, and they spent a holiday together.
Here Stephen, Furphy’s eldest boy, then two years
old, was lost in the bush. He was found next day after
a clue in the shape of an abandoned shoe had been
picked up in a crab hole where he had cried himself
to sleep. He died four years later, and “a light went
out” for his father. Here is probably the emotional
spring of that incomparable description of little Mary
O’Halloran’s wanderings in the bush, of the story in
Rigby’s Romance of the little fellow who was lost
after being bullied by an elder brother, and of Tom
Collins’s great tenderness with children.
The farm was too small to support a family, so
Joseph Furphy tried his luck prospecting on the Ben-
digo and Castlemaine goldfields. He then bought a
team of bullocks and rolled roads on contract for
Waranga shire. Later he went into carrying.
When he left Colbin Abbin Furphy started with a
bullock wagon and four bullocks, three hacks, a jinker
and all necessary gear and equipment. As success came,
he increased his possessions to two teams of 12 bullocks
each, and several additional horses. Then life was busy
and successful, and the outfit was worth some thou-
sands. But droughts came ; and finally pleuro-pneumonia
killed almost all his livestock, until he was left with one
horse alone.
His years of carrying in the Riverina must have
been deeply satisfying to Furphy. He was proud of
his plant. In a letter to A. G. Stephens, of The
Bulletin, he says, “I owned, clear of liability, two
of the best bullock teams that ever traded from Hay.”
Pescott says:
Perhaps the hardest thing he ever had to do in his
life was the giving up of his travelling and carrying
work in the Riverina. Financial difficulties came after
the drought; then there was a young and growing family
to be trained and educated. Hearing of these troubles,
his brother John wrote to him and offered him a posi-
tion in the foundry at Shepparton. His coming back
was a great blow to his pride, but he came back for the
sake of his family.
He was draughtsman and general expert in the
implement works. He lived quietly, gardening, read-
ing widely and, later, tapping out sketches and stories
on his typewriter. He took considerable interest in
the Church of Christ, and occasionally gave addresses
to the members. At Shepparton he met Kate Baker,
who had come to the district as school-teacher. They
had tastes in common, and she encouraged him in
his literary bent, suggesting that he attempt a novel.
Through her family he met other folk interested in
books, and Such Is Life began to develop in his mind.
He made a start. “The idea of ‘Joe’ being able to
write a book was considered a huge joke by all the
family connections except his mother.” Pescott quotes
Joseph Furphy’s sister, “They say there are no ‘mute,
inglorious Miltons,’ but of being one Joe had a close
call.”
Pescott says that A. G. Stephens was wrong in
saying, in the preface to Rigby’s Romance, that the
Shepparton Implement Works “uprooted themselves
and removed to Fremantle.” The works established
by John Furphy in 1874 are still at Shepparton. It
was Joseph’s two sons, Felix and Samuel, who went
to Westralia and established a foundry. Their parents
followed them soon afterwards. Joseph Furphy
appears to have spent the remainder of his life in
comfort and contentment, gardening, writing short
stories and enjoying the companionship of his sons.
He died suddenly. One morning he went out
to give some attention to one of his fig-trees, and from
there to bring in a horse for his sons. While holding
the horse he collapsed. He was amused at the sug-
gestion that he should be carried home, but he died
within a short while.
Pescott has done notable service to Australian
literary history in compiling this book. It is so good
that appetite is whetted ; there might be other sources
—Furphy’s sons, if living—from whom further details
might be gathered. The edition is limited to 75 signed
copies for circulation privately and to certain speci-
fied libraries. It seems to have been something of a
co-operative effort. The preface states that publication
is made possible by the generosity of John Kinmount
Moir, a worker for pioneer writers, and the public-
spirited action of John Gartner, of the Hawthorn
Press. The book concludes with a list of Tom Collins s
unpublished manuscripts: “The Bul-Bul and the
Brolga,” “An Incident of the Anglo-Chmese War
“The Discovery of Christmas Reef,’ Providence and
a Cattle Pup,” “A Vignette of Port Phillip, A B °y
of the Old Brigade,” “A Romance of the System,
“An Idyll of the Wimmera,” “The Passing of a
Pioneer,” “O’Flaherty’s Troubles,” “James Thorpe,
Junior,” “My Uncle’s Treasure,” “The Haunted
Tunnel ” “Under the Tarpaulin,” “The Jeweller s
Shop ” “A Spec. That Failed,” “The Unburied Past,’
“A Point of Honor,” “The Man Rodgers,” “Four
Half-crowns,” “The Law’s Delay,” “Dad’s Artillery”
and “High Art.”
The Bible as Literature.
The Early-Victorian parlor was furnished with
an occasional table which stood in the bow-window.
Upon that table lay the family Bible. Upon that Bible
lay a crochet-mat. Upon the crochet-mat stood a
bowl, and from that bowl rose the foliage of an aspi-
distra. These things were symbolical of an age that
has passed: now, although the occasional table, the
family Bible, the crochet-mat and the aspidistra have
passed, the English Bible still occupies its place in
the life of the English nation.
Four hundred years ago this week King Henry
VIII. issued a royal injunction of which neither he nor
his counsellors nor the nation foresaw the results. That
injunction required the clergy to provide in each
parish
One book of the whole Bible, of the largest volume,
in English, and have the same set up in some con-
venient place within the church, whereat the parish-
ioners may most commodiously resort to the same, and
read it.
Furthermore, the clergy were instructed:
To discourage no man, privily or openly, from read-
ing the same Bible, but to expressly provoke, stir and
exhort every person to read the same.
On June 19 will be commemorated the fourth
centenary of the English Bible. The particular version
so honored will be the “Great" Bible of Henry VIII.
It was not the first Bible in English, but it was the
first to receive official sanction ; in other words, the
first “Authorised” version.
There had been translations of the Bible into the
vernacular before and there were to be many after ;
nevertheless, a large part of that “Great” Bible of
Henry VIII. lives on in the familiar diction of the
“Authorised” version of James I.
Henry VIII.’s wishes were not accomplished with-
out tribulation. Because of the excellence of French
typography and paper it was decided to print the Bible
in Paris, and a license was obtained from the French
king, Francis 1., to do this. That license did not
avail much. In December, 1538, a haberdasher in
Paris bought from the French ecclesiastical authori-
ties “four great vats full” of waste paper. No sooner
had he done so than there came tearing round on its
track two Englishmen and a Frenchman. The Eng-
lishmen were Miles Coverdale, translator and editor
of the projected English Bible, and Grafton, an Eng-
lish printer. The “four great vats full” of waste
paper were the first impressions of that English Bible,
confiscated by the Inquisition. Coverdale and Grafton
bought back the precious sheets and smuggled them,
the type, the presses and the staff out of France to
England, where the work was completed. The first
edition was issued in April, 1539.
The Bible permeates our speech. The commonest
and most familiar idioms and phrases of everyday
conversation come from the Bible, e.g., “skin of my
teeth,” “played the fool,” “sour grapes,” “apple of
the eye,” “hip and thigh,” “little by little,” “coals of
fire,” “a labor of love” and “the burden and heat of
the day.”
It permeates our literature. In Shakspeare’s plays
there are over 200 quotations from the Bible, 40
Bible characters are referred to and 35 events from
the Bible mentioned. Tennyson’s poems contain 460
quotations from the Bible. Browning in one poem
has over 500. In Limits and Renewals Kipling found
Bibical inspiration for “The Church that was at
Antioch” and “The Manner of Men” —two of the
finest pieces of Bibical commentary ever written.
The books which compose it had their origin
in the papyrus of ancient Egypt, in the rock carvings
of Sinai, in the baked clay of Babylon, in the sheep-
skin rolls of the Prophets, in the parchments of the
Apostles, till they eventually found their way into
the record chests of the Early Church. Thence it
has come down in the MSS. of the Apostolic Fathers,
by the hands of countless copying monks, through
the hand-presses of the Reformation period to the
thundering printing plants of modern times.
The greatest names in human history have
preserved and handed on those records. Ezra the
reformer and Baruch the scribe began that work.
St. Luke with his precious parchments and diaries
helped it on. St. Paul with his several secretaries
added to it. St. Jerome with his lion in the desert
brought it all together. The gentle Bede, the whirl-
wind Wyclif, the zealous Tyndale and sober
ecclesiastics such as Coverdale and Parker helped to
form the English Bible till it took its present shape
at the hands of the compilers of the Authorised
Version.
In a chapter entitled “On Reading the Bible”
Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch in his On the Art of Reading
says:—
I daresay, after all, that the best way is not to
bother a boy too early and overmuch with history;
that the best way is to let him romp at first through
the Scriptures even as he might through The Arabian
Nights: to let him take the books as they come,
merely indicating, for instance, that Job is a great poem,
the Psalms great lyrics, the story of Ruth a lovely
idyll, the Song of Songs the perfection of an Eastern
love-poem. He will certainly get less of “The Cotter’s
Saturday Night” into it, and certainly more of the truth
of the East. There he will feel the whole splendid bar-
baric story for himself: the flocks of Abraham and
Laban: the trek of Jacob’s sons to Egypt for corn: the
figures of Rebekah at the well, Ruth at the gleaning
and Rispah beneath the gibbet: Sisera bowing in
weariness: Saul —a great Saul —by the tent prop with
jewels in his turban. Let a youngster read this, just as
it is written: and how the true East —sound, scent, form,
color —pours into the narrative!
For the romance of the Old Testament one should
read how Nehemiah rebuilt the walls of Jerusalem, a
(i Continued on page 8.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’’—AIways.
ESTABLISHED 1823.
‘THE SENIOR STORE:
ANTHONY
HORD
*
#
’
w
#1
&J 9
m
1
HH
si
i
sPPBPisF •? -..in.
«•
»- I
wm
m
21/-
MEN’S CARDIGANS
■
wsgm#m
vm
n
mmsm&mm
mm
■ ■
spw*
>!
fc::
\.>s
;.ys. :■• -•••■•••• ; -
V
mm iSw
*
y&X***'
%' %- ~
•., sssssg
SKIS i~ ;: ;;L:. ; ;^' ; - :r
f, “ ooaatt "
•
m
Men’s Wool Cashmere Car-
digans for all winter wear.
Medium-weight, drop-stitch
pattern, V-neck. Blue-
marl, brown-grey, nigger-
marl, grey-marl and navy
blue. Sizes 36in. to 42in. chest.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price .... 217-
Sale Price 12/6
19/6 EXTRA WARM CARDIGANS
Husbands and sons alike will appreciate tbe snug warmth of
these All-Wool Cardigans. Smartly finished in ribbed drop-
stitch knit, in self shades of mole, fawn, navy and blue-grey.
Sizes 36in. to 42in. chest. Anthony Horderns Regular Price, 19/6
15-
Sale Price
15/-
9'6 ALL WOOL UNDERWEAR
Mens Medium-weight Winter Underwear—soft, cosy and very
serviceable! Shirts or pants. 34in. to 44in.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price . . . 9/6
Sale Price 6/11
6 ; ll
(Heavy Winter-weight Underwear, regularly priced at 10/6, now available
at Sale Price of 7/6).
8/6 WOOL and COTTON UNDERWEAR
Medium-weight, without bulk, particularly warm for winter morn-
ings . . . tailored finish. A genuine bargain! Shirts or pants,
34in. to 44in. Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price 8/6
Sale Price . 5/9
59
(Extra warm weight reduced from regular price of 9/6 to Sale Price, 6/11.)
2/11 CASHMERE SOX
Men’s Fancy Cashmere Half-hose,
of “Hordura” Reg. Quality ... all
wool, except the ornament!
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price,
sizes 1 Oin. to 1 1 £in 2/11
Sale Price 2/6
Sizes 1 2in. to 13in., 3/6. Sale Price
Qe
3/-
2/11 INDIANA Half Hose
Black Cashmere Half Hose, all wool and
seamless! A good buy! Popular with
young men, as well as old. Sizes I Oin.
to 12in. Anthony Horderns’ Regular
Price 2/11
Sale Price 2/6
96
9/6 WINTER PYJAMAS
Anthony Horderns own special make
of Winter-weight Pyjamas, in small,
medium and out sizes.
Striped Flannelette 9/6
Sale Price 7/6
Striped Suede, Extra Warm .. 10/6
Sale Price . 8/6
Striped "Hordura” Reg. Quality, 10/6. Sale Price, 9/6.
Striped Horrockses Double Warp 12/6
Sale Price 11/6
Striped Crimean Flannel . . 25/-. Sale Price . . 22/6
Striped Crimean Flannel All-Wool “Doctor” . . 27/6
Sale Price . 25/-
/
6/11 Flannel U’SHIRTS
In natural or dark grey,
with short sleeves.
Anthony Horderns’ Regu-
lar price 6/11
Sale Price 5/6
Better Quality, 8/6. Sale Price, 7/11
“Doctor” Best, 8/11. Sale Price, 8/6.
Men’s Wear —Ground Floor, George Street.
Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and
seaports in the Commonwealth.
f
7
•/> 7
2/11 Knitted Half Hose
Q'6
4-ply Knitted Half Hose, All-wool
winter weight, Heather, Grey or
Black. lOin. to 1 2in. Price, 2/11.
Sale Price . . . 2/6
4-ply Ribbed Half Hose, sizes 1 Oin. to 12in.
Heather, Grey or Black. Price 3/9
Sale Price 3/3
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.
'Phone: M 2401, Day and Night. SYDNEY Postal Address: 2712 C, G.P.O.


Early New Zealand by the Author of "Pageant ”
by
G.B.LANCASTER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY
A. STUART PETERSON.
v.
JACK up in Auckland Caroline had already
invited the worst. Infuriated by Darien’s
I interferings with young men who might do
for Linda, she went to interfering herself
with such energy that Peregrine posted
| straight home from an interview with her
to tackle Sally, who was making up the
housekeeping accounts on which he questioned her
so minutely every Saturday night.
Dull things, accounts, with thoughts of what might
have been so constantly troubling that once Jermyn
had got into the groceries and had to be called “tar-
taric acid” when Mr. Lovel insisted on knowing what
she had scratched out so hard. Husbands (thought
Sally, looking meekly up at Mr. Lovel stalking in)
seem so often to train wives up in the way they
shouldn’t go.
Nothing meek about Mr. Lovel glaring down
with those close black eyes and saying: “So it is left
for other women to look after your daughter, is it,
Madam? What is all this about Tiffany and that
low half-caste, Hemi Fleete?”
“I don’t know,” said Sally, very startled at being
called “Madam.”
“ ’Pon my soul! Is there anything you do know?
I look after my sons, but I expect you to look after
your daughter.”
The children were always Mr. Lovel’s when good
and Sally’s when naughty. So Tiffy must have been
naughty . . . and yet it seemed that she had only been
boating with Hemi.
“But . . . the other boys are at school. Now
that Roddy’s away she must have an escort”
“An escort? A Maori boy escort? I thank you!
Do you realise,” he cried, taking sharp turns through
the room, “that his mother is unmarried?”
“Whose fault is that?” Sally wanted to cry. But
one could not talk ethics to Mr. Lovel, who had his
own. She murmured: “He is her oldest friend”
“Disgusting,” said Peregrine, whom Caroline had
thoroughly alarmed. “Does one make friends of such
cattle? Even you must know what young Maori
men are like. The morals of the barnyard. Anything
might have happened while you sit here mooning.
Where is she?”
“I don’t know.” Sally was completely rattled.
Fleetes and Lovels—friends since they were babies . . .
“I—l think she went riding.”
“You think? You don’t even know how your
daughter spends her days? By God,” swore Pere-
grine, quite forgetting to be genteel, “it is time I took
that girl in hand.”
“She would never do anything wrong,” cried
Sally, terrified for poor Tiffy, already taken in hand
so much.
“Kindly confine your observations to something
you understand,” said Mr. Lovel, hearing Tiffany
unlatch the gate and march toward the verandah.
Sally followed him, trembling, as he went out. “Oh,
please God,” she whispered, feeling that she would
even tell how Brian came home drunk one night if
it would take his mind off destroying Tiffany’s wide-
eyed innocence. But Mr. Lovel was quite capable of
attending to them both, with all his foibles crystallised
into habits and all his ideas into laws. Jermyn had said
that, adding that this was why Mr. Lovel had got so
far. Short sight carries one a long way, said Jermyn,
who seemed to see so far now that he rarely saw
Sally.
TIFFANY’S long, heavy habit was bottle-green, and
her broad hat had a sweeping bronze feather. She
came stately up between the hollyhocks like a queen,
the light leaving her face as she saw Peregrine. He
was actually moved to admiration of this creature
which he had produced.
“My dear, you look very well. You are quite
the young lady now, and it is time that you should
behave as one.”
“What have I done?” asked Tiffany, her mind
running over her latest sins—upsetting the milk jug;
slapping Hew when he tried to kiss her (but nobody
could have helped that); making a pudding with the
candle-fat (but mamma threw it away in time).
“Nothing but what can be remedied, I hope,”
said Peregrine with heavy geniality. Egad, her skin :
was even better than Darien’s. “No scandal yet, I i
fancy.” (Not with those eyes, he thought, priding 1
himself on his perspicacity.) 1
“Scandal?” j
“Oh, Mr. Lovel! Be careful,” murmured Sally, I
hearing that new note in Tiffany’s voice. She and {
Roddy . . . like racehorses, feeling a word like a blow. %
Peregrine heard the note too, and stiffened to it.
“Yes, Miss, I said scandal. It is scandalous for
you to be seen in the company of those low-class
Fleetes”
“But we have known them always,” cried Tif-
fany, amazed. “On the Beach”
“This is not the Beach. You never meet Maoris
in the houses of our Auckland friends. Surely you
understand that they are quite beyond the pale.”
“I meet them at Bishop Selwyn’s.”
“He is a clergyman,” said Peregrine, dismissing
the Bishop.
“Do you mean,” said Tiffany, now so hot inside
that she felt like ice outside, “that though Maoris are
our equals in God’s sight they’re not our equals in
the sight of Englishmen? I’ve been told that before.”
“Don’t you dare speak to me like that,” cried
Peregrine, losing his dignity and dropping his eye-
glass. “Oh, Tiffy, dear!” murmured Sally, between
terror and joy at seeing Mr. Lovel bearded at last
by one of his own family.
“Do you mean that?” demanded Tiffany, feeling
as dangerous as she looked.
“It is not for you to ask what I choose to mean.”
Peregrine could scarcely believe his ears. “Of all the
insufferable —whom have you been riding with just
now?”
“Hemi Fleete.”
“By God! And you have the impudence to own
it! What did he say to you?”
Oh, Mr. Lovel! ” piped up Sally, beginning to
cry.
“What did he say to you, Tiffany?”
Hemi, as usual, had talked of love, though not so
stupidly as Hew did. But how could one say so to
papa glaring with those sharp, narrow eyes which
never saw the right things? Tiffany felt suddenly
very young and frightened of papa, stammering :
“Oh—-just things. One don’t notice what boys
say.”
“Don’t you indeed, Miss?*” said Peregrine, scent-
ing evasion. He became pompous. “Then, as you
do not notice what young men say, it will be no
hardship to leave them out of your amusements in
future, unless accompanied by a suitable chaperon.
You understand? No more running all over the
place in this loose manner. And no more communi-
cations whatsoever with Mr. Corny Fleete’s family
. . . who are no better than niggers.”
“Am I to cut Mr. Fleete, too, as he is responsible
for them?”
Peregrine’s mouth fell open in sheer amaze. He
forgets that she is a Lovel, too, thought Sally, the
tears of terror running down her cheeks.
“Of all the”-- — he gasped. “Go to your room.
And be thankful that 1 do not give you a good thrash-
ing for your insolence . . . Wait. Have you understood
my orders?”
“Yes, papa,” said Tiffany, and uncomfortably he
saw a gleam of amusement now, as though she had
read his thoughts. “I am not to ride alone with
gentlemen, or there may be scandal. I am not to
associate with Maoris except in God’s society, for
they are not fit for anyone else’s. I understand.”
She sailed into the house with her long habit
sweeping, and if Sally had been less frightened she
would have laughed at Mr. Lovel’s face. Had any-
one else in all his life made him look like that? She
didn’t believe it. He recovered with an effort, but
his feelings had pinched his nose quite white.
“Bread and water. And no emergence until 1
give permission,” he pronounced, thinking that Tiffany
would probably stay there for the rest of her life.
qALLY went up and tapped nervously on Tiffany’s
w door. She knew that the proper method for
mothers was to bounce in suddenly on daughters in
the expectation of finding them doing something they
shouldn’t. But because Aunt Matilda had so bounced,
Sally simply couldn’t . . . though every mamma of
the period would have felt outraged at this plain
neglect of duty. Daughters (said ladies, apparently
remembering their own youth) must never be trusted.
Yet Tiffany must learn her doom, and what
would happen if she climbed out of a window, thought
Sally, fearing that Tiffy, for all her stately ways, was
really one of the wild Lovels—Lovel wildness, how-
ever commendable in gentlemen, as showing a proper
spirit, being beyond contemplation in females.
But Tiffy, with those bright eyes, half-rueful, half-
triumphant, peering through her curly mop, was so
irresistible that Sally’s lips began to twitch. And
then she was undone, for they were both giggling to-
gether before Sally could snatch at the flying skirts
of her duty and shake her head.
“No, Tiffy. You were shocking rude to poor
papa.” (Never, never have I thought of him as poor
before, Sally thought, staggering under the surprise.)
“I know,” said Tiffany, dropping down at Sally’s
knees as she sat on the narrow iron stretcher. “I’m
sorry you had to witness it, mamma dear. And I
think I really shall become Mohammedan now. Papa’s
religion does make me feel so wicked.”
“Oh, Tiffy. I wish Major Henry”
“He couldn’t stop me. I had to try them all
when I got the books ; and the Mohammedan notion
of a lot of wives is very sensible. They could com-
bine against the husband. Will you please explain to
Haini Fleete, mamma?”
“I’ll try.” (Both understood that papa’s explana-
tions would need explaining.) “I’m so sorry, Tiffy.”
“Perhaps it’s better,” said Tiffany with youth s
cruelty towards an unwanted lover. “Hemi is always
asking me to come under his mat.”
“Tiffy! Oh” .. . Sally felt the world roaring and
going black. Oh, please God, she thought, crying on
her one mercy.
“Of course I wouldn’t,” said Tiffany, her frank
innocence quite undisturbed. “That’s a binding mar-
riage and it wouldn’t be right. Besides, I don’t think
Maoris dainty enough, and I hate the smell of the
hair-oil they make from berries.”
Sally had pandered to Tiffany’s daintiness by put-
ting a petticoat of white-spotted muslin round the
bare legs of the dressing-table and bed ; and Tiffany
always kept everything she touched as fresh and clean
as a bird kept its feathers, nightly lugging a tin bath
and can of cold water up to her room at a time when
daily baths were considered slightly indecent. It was
possibly only that daintiness which had saved her . . .
Sally, so taken in the wind, could only sob, bewailing
her own selfishness. Tiffany was puzzled.
WHAT WENT BEFORE...
To New Zealand in 1839 come Lovels —
Peregrine, tall, lean, efficient {“he would have
them all on his shoulders. And he could carry
them, manipulate them, dispose of them to his
will, like God”); easy Sir John, his elder
brother; bluff, bragging old soldier Uncle
Henry ; Jermyn, the untried boyj John’s
Lady Caroline, “Voluptuous without Indeli-
cacy” ; Peregrine’s fifteen-year-old wife Sally
(“not even Peregrine, for all his efficiency, could
found a family without a woman”); her
younger sister Darien —all of them impover-
ished in England, but ready, under Peregrine,
to found a new aristocracy in a new land.
They settle at Kororareka Beach, neigh-
bors to Corny Fleete and his half-caste
brood, to Nick Flower the trader, who
smuggles guns to the Maoris and is “own
brother to Peregrine on the wrong side of the
blanket,” to all the conglomerate riff-raff of
the Beach. Peregrine builds a shipyard;
builds, too, a family.
In 1840 comes Captain Hobson to annex
New Zealand to the Empire, to shatter Pere-
grine’s dreams of kingship, to sign the Wai-
tangi Treaty giving the land the Maoris owned
back to the Maoris, making trouble for future
Governors in the signing, and then to sail away
to the south to his new capital at Auckland.
Peregrine follows him with Lovels when the
Maoris raid the Beach, and sets up the ship-
yard again, sending John out to establish a
farm.
Hobson is followed by a succession of
Governors (they “fell like leaves... .and New
Zealand had disposed of three in a short eight
years”).' Further south, Wellington, “that up-
start town which had actually set up its own
legislation,” continues to “beget bastard settle-
ments” all over the place. Darien marries a
young officer, Lord Calthorpe, and Jermyn,
writing now for the “Chronicle,” tries to per-
suade Sally from her “virtuous promenade”
with Peregrine.
Nick Flower, continuing to prosper, and
owning now (so rumor said) half Auckland,
beats Peregrine for a seat on the newly-arrived
provincial council. The first Parliament — Pere-
grine has a seat —opens in 1854 and closes
again without having done anything. Peregrine
has worries, too, with his children —with the
eldest, dreaming Roddy, whom he sends to
John’s farm; with the nut-brown maid Tif-
fany, “so ardent for life.”
Some of the Maoris “were for wiping the
floor with England, and all were wiping the
floor with each other as a prelude, while the
women cried ‘Riria, riria . . . fight on.’ ” His
mother asks the tribe to take Hemi Fleete,
who looks at Tiffany with love, and train him
for chieftainship “lest worse befall.”


“Really it would be a great honor, mamma,
though white people don’t understand. Hemi’s family
is much grander than ours, and no Maori may speak
his grandfather’s name, and Hemi has as many begats
as the Bible. The tohungas made him learn them,
and sometimes he says them to me for hours. Hemi
is a very ... a very heredic person indeed,” explained
Tiffany, struggling with the word. “Of course, his
father isn’t anything much,” she added, rather spiteful
about drunken Corny, who could go into gentlemen’s
houses.
“But, Tiffy . . . they . . . they were cannibals.”
“Who wouldn't be in a country with no animals,
and being such big fellows, and fighting all the time?
Papa would be. He’s Very fond of meat.”
TRULY, it seemed, these youthful cubs of the old
British lion had not the respect for their elders
which a community still endeavoring to be more
English than the English might hope for. But obedi-
ence to parents was too solid a wall for daughters
to tilt at; so Tiffany humbled herself to Peregrine,
and in time she was forgiven and rode on the golden
bracken of the hills again, with suitable chaperons.
Jermyn and Brian were chaperons on the day
when she next saw Hemi in a manuka-track, and
Jermyn pulled up to ask why Taranaki had made a
Land League when it already had the Treaty. The
boy might throw some light on Maori doings, because
he had powerful connections everywhere, though he
didn’t look it now, having definitely jettisoned his
young dandy ways and returned to bare feet and dirty
shirts.
Hemi was unhelpful, scuffing his toes in the red
dust, slouching his shoulders. The Treaty, he said,
was taipo ... the devil. It was a catch to trip the
Maori. “Taipo, like all you pakeha do,” said Hemi,
very guttural and slashing at his setter with a manuka-
switch until it limped off, yelping.
The men rode on, but Tiffany, defying papa’s
orders, held back angrily. Hemi was being very
cruel and disgracefully dirty.
“You needn’t hurt animals because you’ve been
hurt yourself,” she cried.
Hemi stepped to her side. “What is a Maori
heart to do, Tihane? For it burns. It burns,” he
said, looking with dark, hungry eyes that burned, too.
But Tiffany was too young for pity and very
disgusted with Hemi.
“That’s no excuse for looking like a drunken
pakeha. Go to your grandfather and learn to be a
warrior, can’t you!” she cried, galloping on after
Jermyn and Brian. A man who had the liberty to
do great things and wouldn’t . . .
I.
j\DY CALTHORPE’S entertainments lacked
formality . . . which was so pleasant that
gentlefolk brought up on good old-fashioned
principles secretly felt they must be rather
wicked and took care never to miss one of
them.
Since to-night’s dinner celebrated
Darien’s own birthday (a sufficiently immodest notion),
Caroline was shocked to find that Darien had pro-
vided paper-caps for the gentlemen to wear during
dessert as an offset to the ladies ; and by the time
the caps were on there was so much good food and
drink below them that young Mr. Courtney began
playing a tune on wine-glasses that no one could guess,
and Darien was asking everybody riddles, and Lord
Calthorpe grinning all the time out of his mob-cap
with blue-paper strings.
How the Calthorpes did it on nothing but debt
Caroline couldn’t imagine. Anyone less moral than
herself would suspect Darien of a lover who paid
the bills. I wonder who he is, she thought, staring at
all the laughing gentlemen. A saddle of mutton, too.
So vulgar. And crimson roses scattered all over the
damask among the meats and jellies. Though prob-
ably there to hide holes, they looked improper, thought
Caroline, feeling that Linda should not be here. Yet,
since Mr. Andrew Greer had suddenly appeared
again to sit next her, of course she had to be. Such
a royal fish for Linda’s little hook.
“Here’s to our fair queen of the night,” cried
Sir Winston, raising his glass to Darien. “Egad, Lady
Calthorpe, your head should be on one of these new
postage-stamps instead of Victoria’s.”
“How would you have me? Like this? Or this?”
asked Darien, quite ready to offer enraptured eyes
dazzling views of white shoulders rising from green
foam, of gay little profile and auburn curls where the
matron’s cap had shrunk to a jaunty scrap of gold
lace and couldn’t behave itself even then. Mr. Greer
suddenly grabbed a rosebud and put it in his button-
hole, looking at Darien.
Caroline was so frantic that she forgot to see if
the rosebud had covered a hole. Once that immodest
creature got him there was no hope for Linda.
“I always think,” she cried, rushing into battle,
“that we should speak reverently of the dear Queen
v/ho has contrived by the postage-stamps to link us
so closely to her and all the world.”
“Not to the said O’Reilly, who had
missed his chance there.
“La, sir! Don't mention the Crimea. It makes
me ill to think of that abandoned female of a Miss
Nightingale going out to nurse the soldiers.”
“Much more original than if she’d gone with the
intention of marrying them,” retorted Darien, look-
ing wickedly at gentlemen so well aware of Caroline’s
intentions for Belinda, while Sir Winston, seeing his
chance, remarked:
“Who shall find a virtuous woman? For her
price is far above rubies.”
“I wish it was. I’d put myself up to auction,”
cried Darien . . . which was so shocking that Caro-
line would have led Linda from the table if there
had been any hope of Mr. Andrew Greer following.
Jermyn looked at Did the knowledge that
one’s price was far above rubies console a woman for
a lonely life? Sally had not turned into a plump com-
fortable matron. She had grown more slender and
remote, as though secretly dreaming of that crown
of life which she had refused. For what? To be a
figurehead to Peregrine’s lordly ship. That’s all she
was, this quiet Sally, who could have been so boun-
teous with love and laughter.
NOW Mr. Greer was gloomily admitting to Pere-
grine that Christchurch had certainly been very
sick with typhoid among its flax-swamps, but the
situation was entirely changed since they had found
artesian water. Caroline (concerned for Linda’s
future) was anxious to know what typhoid did to you,
but Mr. Pinshon was loudly hoping that we would
not soon all have our heads cracked by Maoris.
“No sense blaming them,” declared Major Henry,
who rarely did anything else. “England has made
them the world’s richest landowners, and now they
are not the honest men they were. We gave ’em too
many varieties of laws and religions, so now they’ve
got indigestion and thrown up the lot.”
The Major was getting shocking coarse, thought
Caroline, asserting that England certainly should have
had more sense at her age. “I fear the Waitangi
Treaty was a mistake,” said she to gentlemen who
felt tney had known that seventeen years ago.
“It’s sending her old laws and customs into a
new land where everything is so different” began
Hew Garcia, blushing at his boldness.
“We have to send you our troops and money at
any rate, young sir,” said a portly colonel, anxious
to get his men away from Maori marriages.
“Legislation,” remarked Jermyn, “is merely a
sop to the sycophant and a bribe to the toad-eater.”
“We do our best to remain without it,” said Mr.
Pinshon, very dry, since Responsible Government,
assembling in 1856 for the first time, had managed
to dissolve itself three times in a fortnight. Yet it
had done very well later, and if Gore Browne wasn’t
always sitting on the fence
“Well, we can’t all enjoy life, but apparently we
can prevent others from enjoying it,” said Darien,
collecting eyes in a hurry. Gentlemen talking
politics were even more unprofitable than the politics
themselves. “Come, ladies, we’ll enjoy ourselves with-
out them.” Saucily she turned in the door, menacing
gentlemen with her great green feather fan, her danc-
ing eyes. “Monsters! I detest you all,” cried Darien,
including them all in a smile which each man took
for himself.
How lightly Darien treated such superior beings,
thought Sally, overawed. Of course she had begun
early. Her prentice hand she tried on man . . . and
now she tried it on the women ; setting Martha Pin-
shon and Linda to duets so that ladies could talk
scandal more comfortably; praising Leta Baizey’s
new Jenny Lind cap (“That adorable pink! I fell
in love with you all over again, darling”); praising
Caroline for her clever notion of sending her Sunday
dinner to the bakery so that all her family could
attend church.
“Now everyone is doing it. I see quantities of
little boys running home with smoking dishes done
up in napkins after church. So good for our souls. I
suppose bakers haven’t any?” inquired Darien, very
innocent.
“Ask the Bishop,” retorted Caroline, annexing
Andrew Greer as he came in.
Andrew was willing, having just discovered that
this powerful female with a sort of bird’s-nest of
colored fluff and feathers on her oily ringlets was
wife to Sir John Lovel, whose prize Hereford bull
he had come all the way from Canterbury to buy.
So far Sir John had refused to sell, but this woman
looked a good ally, thought Andrew, never leaving
her side even when Darien got everyone romping
through blindman’s-buff.
PARIEN, leaning breathless against a wall, heard
the old fogies talking in corners. Discovery'
of gold in Nelson . . . coal in the Waikato . . . the
Wellington Chamber of Commerce . . . oh, the dull-
ness of the old fogies . . . And Jermyn not married
yet. Even with the marks of wear on him he was
still the handsomest man in the room. Though all
men are fools one don’t like them to escape, thought
Darien, beckoning Jermyn to her.
“Look at Caroline calling Belinda to sit with
her and the Greer man,” she said. “She means to
make a marriage, and I think she’s right. Linda has
been on offer too long.”
“When Lady Lovel is right it is merely through
a misunderstanding on her part,” said Jermyn.
“Oh —hasn’t he any money?”
“I believe not. Manager for a syndicate or some-
thing.”
“Delightful!” cried Darien, clapping her hands.
“Don’t tell her, Jermyn. I’ll make that marriage.”
“Would that be kind?”
“Unquestionably. Life with Caroline is just a
series of police-regulations. Linda would be happier
with a husband . . . any husband.”
“Does any husband content a woman?” he
demanded.
“If she has common sense. We’re very accom-
modating, you know. Have to be. See how well
Sally is getting along at her virtuous promenade with
Peregrine,” cried Darien gaily. “I vow I never ex-
pected her to be so content with the mean black rig.”
“So she’s content, is she?” said Jermyn, going
away to find Martha Pinshon . . . who would surely
be able to exorcise Sally’s unwilling ghost now.
Darien, watching his still-slender, graceful figure
threading among shining shoulders, glossy ringlets,
sun-browned faces of the younger sturdier men, went
to sit by Sally for a minute. “You should always
wear that shade of grey, Sally. It makes you look
like a dear little dove . . . I’ll be having Tiffany at
my parties soon, I suppose. Who is she to marry?”
“Oh . . . We haven’t thought of that yet,” said
Sally, turning her eyes from Jermyn bending over
Martha Pinshon.
“I’ll be bound Peregrine has. He won’t let her
hang fire as Linda is doing . . . and with Sophy and
Maria prancing to be in the market, though who the
dickens Caroline expects to marry them to . . . Tif-
fany won’t attract men as 1 do, but she’ll probably
ravish a few with that stand-offish manner of hers,”
said Darien, feeling that Sally had grown rather stand-
offish too. What had happened to that lover she once
certainly had? Gone off after easier game, since Sally
would be far too moral to keep him? Or sent to the
Crimea and died there, perhaps ?
Thank heaven I don’t care who dies so long as
I don’t, thought Darien, running off to the welcom-
ing crowd again. All this adulation was vastly de-
lightful, but it wasn’t near enough. I’ve got to grow
old and lose this, thought Darien shrewdly. I must
be remembered for something better than this. What
a shame women cannot be in the Parliament.
11.
CHE peacocks walking on the green velvet lawns of
Lovel Hall had all moulted ; and now, spreading
their forlorn tails to a glowing golden sunset, they
looked so like abandoned women that Sally couldn’t
bear to see them, she had been feeling so abandoned
herself since Jermyn took Martha Pinshon home last
night.
Feeling quite unable to stand without the know-
ledge that God was helping her somehow, Sally
took her embroidery and the little basket of
bright silks and went to sit in the back room
with Mr. Lovel. Very dull and impressive, the
back room, furnished by Mr. Lovel with an eye
to future generations, and filled with heavy leather
chairs and massive tables. Very dull and impressive,
Mr. Lovel, sitting among his papers with light from
the solid cutglass chandelier making a little pale ring
round his long nose and neat black side-whiskers.
Such an excellent and successful gentleman, Mr. Lovel.
Such a self-contained soul, rotating continually on
its own axis.
Oh, Mr. Lovel, her heart pleaded, won’t you help
me? I have been a good wife to you, but it hasn’t
been easy. It has been very hard, Mr. Lovel, and
I’m so tired. Couldn’t we talk together a little and
try to understand? . . .
R. LOVEL."’ she ventured, breaking a long
■ v | silence with her soft little voice. Peregrine
ran his finger down a row of figures, recorded the
result, looked round with eyes that did not immedi-
ately focus. Canterbury land, young Greer had said, ,
was magnificent sheep-country. Fortunes in it; but
since the Government was now putting all pre-empted
land up for sale it was necessary to buy it in.
Some men, Greer had said, were already buying
and fencing large sections all over the plains, hoping,
to squeeze the rightful owners out, and the only way
to circumvent them was to pay in a lump svm the
extra demanded by Government. “Don’t let an acre
of your pre-empted land go, sir,” urged Andrew, say-
ing that Peregrine would be a millionaire yet.
After anxious hours of figuring, Peregrine had
discovered that he could just do it, letting the land
for grazing until Roddy went down next year. He
must go out and ask John about Roddy ; advance
money for John to get merino rams from Tasmania,
since Greer said half-bred merinos were best, and
Roddy must learn about them first.
“I beg your pardon, my dear,” he said mechani-
cally. Then his eyes focused on the fair, wistful face
leaning out of the shadows, and he blinked once or
twice. Nick Flower, in that unpleasant interview for
which Peregrine had never forgiven Caroline, had
said that Sally was above reproach . . . though, of
course, he had always known it without that
impertinent comment. She was more. This charming
creature of shining hair and gentle eyes, this modest
delicacy of soft flesh and muslins and laces, was his,


even to her wedding-ring A quite worth-while invest-
ment for a Lovel who had always taken royal chances
. . . who would take more . . .
Somewhat giddy over thinking of being a mil-
lionaire, he drew Sally on to his knee with a kindly
word of approval, jigged her up and down, rumbling
in his deep bass:
Lavender’s blue, diddle-diddle. Lavender’s green.
When I am King, diddle-diddle, you shall be Queen.
“Now, what does a handsome little wife say to
that? Yet it may be—or something like it,” he added,
hedging a bit, since it was never safe to let females get
above themselves. “What, my love—crying?”
“Everything’s so f-funny,” gasped Sally.
Peregrine set her back on her chair with a bump.
Jove may occasionally nod, but it is not for Venus to
mock him. He was deeply hurt.
“I do not find everything funny. People who
think rarely do. Now . . . unless you have something
special to say? —I am particularly busy.”
But Sally had nothing to say except apologies
for interrupting him, and he forgot her before she
was out of the room. Females were very well for
interludes, but they must not impinge on a man’s work.
If we can get the Government contract for the pew
wool ship tliat would give me . . . Always happiness
in figures, so long as they were not human.
DESPITE routs, picnics and dances, Andrew Greer
found the figure of John’s Hereford bull by far
the most desirable—and elusive. Sir John, stubborn
fellow, refused to sell, though anyone could see how
hard-up he was. And that snowgrass hill-country
edging the syndicate’s great Canterbury station was
made for cattle —which could feed as far back as they
chose since there were no surveys on the ranges.
Andrew could see great lusty mobs there; value
beyond dreams that would soon win him a share in
the station. And not anywhere had he seen a bull to
equal Sir John’s Hereford.
So he hung on ; meeting Belinda everywhere and
taking it for accident instead of Darien and Caro-
line ; betting here and there at dog-fights, cock-fights,
100 and baccarat; and paying a somewhat reluctant
call on Lady Lovel after a card-evening, all in happy
ignorance that his bachelor bolt was shot.
“Ah, sir,” said Caroline archly, “I know who
you’re looking for, but she’s not behind the piano.
You naughty men are vastly subtle, but you can’t
deceive me.”
So sure she was that after a few surprised minutes
Andrew became aware of his own vast subtlety in
winning a heart without knowing it, and began to
be very distressed and apologetic. But Lady Lovel
talked fast, wiping her eyes as she spoke of her adored
little Linda’s unhappiness.
“The trouble I had to get it out of her you
wouldn’t believe. But a mother’s heart, you know ...
How could I rest? Linda, I said, I insist on your
telling me who you are dying for. You can imagine
my amaze when she sobbed out your name.”
“Mine?” faltered Andrew.
“Well, you young things will be at the marrying,”
said Caroline, producing a second handkerchief from
her voluminous pocket. “Though what I’ll do with-
out her I can’t think, and I could never have brought
myself to mention it if I hadn’t seen the way you
looked about the room just now. Where is she? you
were thinking. Ah, you can’t deceive me.”
“N-no, Madam,” said Andrew weakly.
“I knew it,” cried Caroline. She advanced,
enveloped him with six flounces of sage-green grena-
dine, kissed his cheek. “My dear Andrew! I simply
must call you that. I never thought I could give my
little darling rosebud to anyone, but since she wor-
ships you and I know you to be so steady”
Andrew (whose head was certainly steady) was
beginning to think. Sir John couldn’t refuse him the
bull now. He might get a young steer as well. A
man must marry some day, and the Lovel connection
was more than he could have expected. He felt
honored, and so far as his staggered mind would
allow he said so.
“Not a word,” cried Caroline, patting his arm.
“A mother must make her sacrifices when Prince
Charming comes by. Now, I know you’re dying to see
her”
“Shouldn’t Sir John?” . . . Between abasement
at being called Prince Charming and hopes that if
Sir John wouldn’t sell the bull he could get out of
marrying somehow, Andrew was in a panic. A wife!
Good Lord, what would he do with a wife down in
that rough bachelor establishment, with every man
who rode by dropping in to spend a night or a week
and smoking and drinking all day long?
“Sir John thinks as I do,” Caroline said. “Indeed,
if he had not spoken so highly of you I doubt if—
ah, there’s my darling (or must I call her your darling
now?) in the garden. Wait. I will bring her to you.”
She hurried out, finger archly at her lip, and
Andrew sat down and faced it. If Sir John liked him
he’d certainly get the bull, and if it had to be accom-
panied by a wife—well, some men get only the wife.
There are always compensations, thought Andrew,
who was a natural philosopher.
THERE were carnations and fat white magnolia-
■ buds in the garden, and Linda (who really was
slimmer and paler than she had been) cutting roses
into a basket. Caroline advanced with determinaton.
There must be no scenes, and Linda was quite capable
of making them, she thought, putting a tender arm
round the plump waist, speaking gentle words. But
Linda was not inclined to be gentle, and Caroline’s
hand over her mouth barely stopped a shriek.
“Hush, my love. It’s a chance in a thousand, as
1 am always telling you. You trust me, Linda?”
“1 don’t know,” gasped Linda, knowing very well
that she didn’t.
“Silly puss! Of course you do. Such an estim-
able young man. So devoted”
“Only to b-bulls,” quavered Linda, quite unable
to visualise Mr. Greer’s devotion.
“Now, stop this nonsense,” said Caroline, put-
ting her foot down. “I’ve told you a dozen times
you’re to marry him, and you ought to be down on
your knees with thankfulness for the chance. Think
of your poor sisters who can’t come out till you’re
engaged, and don’t be so wickedly selfish. Stop that
snivelling. You know your nose swells when you cry.
Now ... a white rose in your hair and think of all
he Can give you. Jewels . . . fine clothes . . . trips to
Sydney,” panted Caroline, dragging Linda along.
“Here’s my foolish girl, Andrew. So shy ... so over-
come with happiness.”
With the white rose in her hair and such mind as
she had dazed into submission, Linda suffered Andrew
to take her hand, while Caroline heartily pronounced
a blessing over the bewildered pair, who, even when
they parted, hardly knew what had happened to them.
When they read the papers next day they knew, for
Caroline had no intention of being beaten at the post.
“An early marriage has been arranged”
Arranged, thought Andrew, accepting congratu-
lations rather dryly, was the right word.
111.
RODDY drove John to unnatural curses over his
dislike of killing a sheep, and would stop the
long, heavy line of ploughing bullocks to watch
the big bronze wood-pigeons wheel against the sun,
or to listen to the blue-feathered, scarlet-legged pukeka
calling in a warm flax-swamp. And then Uncle John,
sowing seed out of a creel behind him, would roar
like an angry lion.
Eriti, riding long rough miles through bogging
swamps and tangling bush until her poor little body
was numb with weariness and only the bursting long-
ing of her heart held her up, had always known
Roddy for a god—which was why she had been a
modest girl and not given him long ago the ropa,
the hand-squeeze of invitation. One does not take
liberties with gods, but meekly awaits their pleasure,
felt Eriti, as Roddy lifted her off the horse’s bare
backbone at the door, he looking so clean, so white
and golden that she hastily tried to comb her hair
with her fingers, to straighten her cotton frock, before
following him in with the mail of papers and letters
which were always her excuse for coming.
Then Roddy made damper, and Sir John poured
milkless tea into pannikins—between them they had
broken all the china—and afterwards there was music
out under the tree-ferns like fairy tents, the cabbage-
trees like Maori warriors in their rustling mats.
John, dozing over the “Times” of four months
back, with his great boots to the embers, found him-
self still resentful of Linda’s man, who had taken his
Hereford bull and gone off at once with it in a brig
sailing for Wellington. From there he would pick
up something else to take him down the coast to
Canterbury, but his bride would have to travel by
way of Sydney in a boat with cabins, said Andrew,
sailing away.
“He won’t come back ; it was only the bull he
wanted,” John told Caroline, who, wishing for no
inquiries into that matter, crushed him with: “Pray
remember that I have still four daughters to marry
off and don’t hinder with your nasty insinuations,
though I have long since given up expecting help.”
Yet she was sufficiently anxious to make Linda
write almost daily to Andrew, telling about her
trousseau and the presents already coming in and
promising to be ready as soon as he could come for
her. Though what with these newfangled postage-
stamps and letters having to go round by Sydney,
twelve hundred miles away, who could tell if he
would ever get them, thought Caroline, pestering
John each time he came to town for more money
for Linda.
IT seems, on examination into colonial history, that
when an English statesman was made head of the
Colonial Department he inquired reluctantly into
a condition which proved quite as repulsive as he had
feared. Convicts and cannibals. With such unsavory
baubles did the English choose to toy at the ends of
the earth; but such, said the Colonial Office firmly,
are not on our visiting list. It realised the delicacy
of its position. To annoy the solemn conclaves at
Westminster with such squibs and crackers as con-
stantly arrived from the Antipodes was not to be
thought of, and yet there must be some correspon-
dence to place before committees. Regrettably the
Antipodean end of the correspondence was so con-
sistently abusive that the Colonial Office was simply
goaded into replies. And if New Zealand called
these replies so many monkey-wrenches thrown into
the machinery what was to be done with such un-
grateful people (who couldn’t possibly have a
machinery anyway) but persuade Westminster to
give them responsible government and let them try to
manage themselves.
So New Zealand thanked God publicly and
became very lively in her responsible government.
Our sins be on our own heads now, they said. So
they were, and in the papers, too, where every gentle-
man was encouraged to vilify his neighbor in print
and be very bold anonymously. Sir Winston could
always be detected, and Peregrine ; but “Pro Bono
Publico” remained a puzzle, and it was more than
hinted that Lady Calthorpe was “Paterfamilias.
Meanwhile the Maoris became exceedingly inter-
ested in learning the real character of the ir tenants
—who the Maoris thought, must have been all hatcnea
from birds’ eggs—and Hemi’s grandfather (who was
of such royal vintage that his real name must n
be mentioned and so he was called Te Patiti, mean-
ing The Hatchet) was pleased when Hemi came down
to the Waikato, because Hemi had the English and
could read him all that the papers said. .
Tiffany’s cruel scorn had goaded Hemi into
coming, but the very look and smell of the pa as
he came in turned his stomach. Great reed-
latticed gates to the pa, guarded by enormous and
supremely hideous wooden figures with their tongues
out. Split fish drying everywhere in the sun, green
bundles of flax, scattered refuse where the dogs
nosed, rancid odors of whale-oil, mutton-bird oil,
berry-oil, smells of pungent fern-root being scraped
for food, musty smell of heaps of feathers for mats
which the old hags were making ... all blown and
drifted together on the woody smoke from cooking-
fires that never went out.
Oh, Tihane! thought Hemi, being greeted by
drums and the long wooden trumpets as became the
grandson of a mighty chief, why did you send me to
this?
Te Patiti looked him over, thinking him un-
pleasantly pale and narrow in the beam. Hemi would
never be able to carry his share of a war-canoe over
the portages. But he was of the blood, and could
perhaps explain why these amazing English had de-
graded their Governor (chief of all head-chiefs) by
making it necessary for him to consult with lesser
chiefs before saying yea or nay. Patiti had not signed
the Treaty. He had never been to Auckland, and he
was inordinately proud of his fortifications, which the
cannon Hemi had seen on English warships would
blow sky-high in no time.
SO Hemi sat on a carved stool in the full ceremonial
of the meeting-house to read from the newspapers
which Patiti had been collecting for years ; and on
the dais beside Patiti were grouped his brown sons
and grandsons, and round the intricately-woven and
-colored raupo walls squatted rows of silent warriors.
The first paper dated back to 1856.
“Our first Ministry of responsible government, as
distinct from a former lamentable effort when Ministers
were appointed by the Crown, has fully beaten cock-
fighting,” read Hemi in slow colloquial Maori. “Mag-
nificently it took the field under Mr. Sewell, and after
defeating itself within a fortnight did it not with equal
magnificence take another field under the banner of
Mr. Fox? When, a few days later, a vote of want-of-
confidence obliterated Mr. Fox, was it discouraged?
No, gentlemen. The word is not known to our brave
pioneers who (whatever may chance) retain their gal-
lant determination to say and do exactly as they
choose. Now, with the assistance of Mr. Stafford, it is
thundering off down a third field where, we have no
doubt, it will continue to make history”
Patiti scowled. Young warriors were grinning
and nudging each other. This was not well. “Read
more,” he ordered.
Hemi took a later paper, which lightly alluded
to the Governor as a bric-a-brac fellow, which Hemi
had to translate as egg-shell, thereby confirming
Patiti’s suspicions about birds’ eggs. “Governor Gore
Browne,” read Hemi, “has seen fit to annul the em-
bargo against selling ammunition to the Maoris, who
are now buying in enormous quantities, undoubtedly
with a view to future use upon ourselves”
“Since they have discovered that,” said Patiti,
“why do they make it so easy for us to get it?”
Hemi didn’t know. No one, he explained, knew
a pakeha’s reasons, but it was believed that they never
had any. Patiti’s scowl deepened. That was nonsense.
Every man had reasons, and with the logic and cun-
ning of the Maori he soon discovered this one. The
ammunition must be bad, and the pakeha were taking
Maori maize and kumeras and poakas for what was
worth nothing. This was an ugly jest which Maori
pride would like washed out with blood. Patiti glared
down the length of the • whare-rununga on his war-
riors . . . strong men bred of a race to whom fight is
the only just breath in the nostrils, and he felt the
old desire, the old ambition rise in him.
“Oh, my children,” he said, “it is not well. I
shall go down into Taranaki and consult with those
chiefs in their great new meeting-house. And I shall
take this my son Hemi to read them what the pakeha
are doing. For truly it is not well. This is all I have
to say” . . .
IV.
P T ONEERS were finding plenty to say. They had
got over the excitement of Canterbury sending its
first wool ship direct to London, and since others were
following they could now thumb their noses at Aus-
tralia’s control of New Zealand commerce. They


had weathered the wonder of reaping-machines
pushed by horses to cut such grain as was not scat-
tered in the process, and ceased to complain of the
stench of Auckland’s foreshore where reclamation
was still going on intermittently, though gentlemen
still spat when they had to go there and ladies did
what they could.
And now they were breaking chairs at the
Mechanics’ Institute over this scandalous king-move-
ment down in the Waikato, with Major Henry declar-
ing that Chief Tamihana ought to be shot, and Sir
Winston amending: “And that goat Gore Browne,
too.” Perhaps Nick Flower, going here and there
among the Maoris, was l almost the only white man
who didn’t blame Tamihana . . . who seemed to have
put a fox in the hen-roost, all the same.
It was not (explained Tamihana to Nick Flower,
spending a night at his pa) merely that tapu was being
defied now by the young warriors; nor that they
were everywhere setting up water-wheels to grind the
flour they sold the pakeha in order to buy so many
guns that little tribal wars couldn’t satisfy them. Nor
was it only that every Maori now despised the white
Governor-Chief, who had to ask permission of others
before he did anything, nor that the military was be-
ginning to drive a wide road down into the Waikato.
“But put all these together, my friend, and they make
a large sum,” said Tamihana, who was a good Chris-
tian and had been to England and really wanted peace.
“You’ll never get peace until the chiefs can rule
their men again,” said Flower, knowing they wouldn’t
get it then.
“We think that,” said Tamihana. “What we need
is a king who will rule us all in the Maori way with-
out harming anybody. So I will go to Auckland, and
talk to your Governor, although a chief who cannot
say yea or nay out of his own head is not of much
use.”
Gore Browne was of even less use than Tamihana
expected, for he never saw him. A clerk denied him
entrance at the new Government House, and someone
set the dogs on him as he strode down the drive in his
best mat of ceremony, and little white boys in the town
called “Nigger” after him.
Tamihana went back to the Waikato and sent
out tenders for a king.
This was less easy to arrange than one might
think, for many of the chiefs were already kings in
their own territory and took no interest in foreign
titles. At last Tamihana persuaded Te Whero Whero,
who had sat with that old conquistador Te Rauparaha
in Auckland Domain and was now too old to mind
anything much.
But Te Whero Whero had a reputation second to
none, and he was not a Treaty man. So they made
him king with many beautiful and mystical cere-
monies, and prayed earnestly for Queen Victoria, to
whom they assigned equal right of rule, though ex-
plaining that she couldn’t be expected to understand
Maori ways. Then they named Te Whero Whero by
his shorter title of Potatau, whipped ceremonial tops
all over the place, set up their own new flag beside
the Union Jack, and saluted both.
OW we shall be happy,” said Tamihana, imme-
■ ■ diately taking- charge of everything with old
Potatau as complacent figurehead and hoping for the
best. But the best he got was a fierce tribal war
against those who preferred the slack English rule and
plenty of drink to the stern rigor of Maori law;
while Gore Browne, demented at the notion that
divided rule was better than none, denounced the
king movement savagely and sent for more troops.
This was very pleasant for the ladies, who hadn’t
had a new regiment for such a long time; and
(since Andrew Greer, having disposed of his bull,
had come back in a hurry and carried Linda off almost
before she had time to say “I will”) Caroline hastily
put Sophia and Maria on the market and began to
tighten Emily’s stays. “La,” cried Caroline, “what
with Linda’s trousseau and these immigrant bazaars
that never have enough clothes for the babies that
sea-voyages seem to produce in such quantities, I
declare I’m just worn to a shadow.”’
“You’ll have clothes to make for Linda’s babies
soon,” promised Darien, turning to Corny, who was
declaring that Gore Browne’s attempt to placate the
Maori by taking off the ammunition embargo was
having just the result that might have been expected.
“We always do things the wrong way, make them
think us blasted fools. A shockin’ mess we’re in
now,” complained Corny, staring with his puzzled,
bloodshot eyes.
Did Corney and his kind know what a shocking
mess they were making by breeding up a mixed race,
wondered Darien. Not likely. Here and elsewhere
gentlemen seemed content to leave those kinds of
mistakes To God.
Hemi had gone for a trip to his grandfather,
explained Corny, but if war came he’d have to fight
for England. “All my sons shall fight for England
or I’ll shoot ’em with my own hand,” declared
Corny.
“Quite the best method of persuasion,” said
Darien, cheerfully. “And what about your
daughters?”
Corny took no interest in his daughters. But
Darien did. Last time she had taken a big riding-
party out to the farm, dull old John had let it out
how regularly Eriti Fleete brought the mail, and
Darien had turned sharply to look at Roddy, who
had gone as red as fire. Very gay and good-looking
just now, this Roddy with his absurd fluffy upper lip
catching the sun like gold, very scornful about Pere-
grine’s notion of sending him down to Canterbury.
“Let him send Brian,” said Roddy, standing big
against the slab wall. “I am very content here.”
“By God,” swore Brian, who was so like Pere-
grine that Darien always wanted to give him the slap-
pings Peregrine had deserved so long, “I’ll pink you
if you suggest that, Rod. Me go down to that filthy
country! No, thanks. A gentleman’s life for me.”
“But, Roddy, you hate this place so,” cried
Tiffany. “I think you’d like Canterbury much better.
And then I could come and live with you, perhaps,”
she said, her brown eyes appealing.
‘Til be shot if I do,” declared Roddy, very bright-
eyed and aggressive.
Darien was charmed. It was Eriti, of course ; and
good luck to Roddy, who had the wit to make some-
thing out of the negations with which Peregrine had
always surrounded him. Peregrine would never allow
the heir of all the Lovels to wife until he had chosen
him a suitable helpmate ; and .meantime what were
Maori girls for but to assist a young man to sow his
wild oats, thought Darien, going with John to look
at his merino rams.
“There’s money in rams,” she said, even more
charmed than with Roddy. “I wish I had them.”
There, she thought, was the way to become famous.
Build up the finest flocks in all the world, send thou-
sands and thousands of ships brimming with wool
all over the clamoring world. “I shall marry a farmer
when I can get Calthorpe to divorce me,” she told a
shocked and delighted John. “New Zealand has a
divorce court now, you know.”
Tiffany rode home sadly with long shadows
racing before her as the sun set over the Wai-
takeres. For the first time in all her life Roddy didn’t
want her ; and so the bottom was out of everything,
and cattle-bells, goat-bells in the tall bracken rang a
dirge.
i.
UjgSi&i GNORING fleas, mud, smells, pigs, the papers,
"j its little scattered houses peering hopefully out
j of scrub, and the dirty streets of rough, black
j scoria, Auckland still contrived to feel itself
the very pink and pearl of civilisation. Caro-
line wrote Home reams about Linda’s mar-
riage to “one of our millionaires,” going on
to impress England with the festivals held by dear Sir
John Logan Campbell in his fine house, and the after-
noons for young ladies provided by Mr. Swainson (our
gay bachelor Attorney-General); and how, because
Auckland was the headquarters of the bishopric, the
military, the Roman Catholics and the banking
gentry, there was such a whirl of amusement that dear
Sophy and Maria, who had come out together at the
last ball, were nearly run off their feet . . .
Tiffany had come out at the ball, too, but there
was no need to mention her, thought Caroline, who,
having just sent Tiffany a blue-and-red silk handker-
chief for her eighteenth birthday, felt that she had
done her part by Tiffany.
Others had also done their part, so that the
breakfast table at Lovel Hall was heaped with cards
and bouquets from appreciative partners, and Sally
was still gathering up parcel-wrappings from the floor.
“More than your share of scalps, Tiffy,” cried
Darien, pretending to be jealous and wondering whose
card Tiffany had blushed so red over. When Tiffany
did love (and she seemed slow at it) she’d ride her
passion as she rode a horse at a fence. But here
was Peregrine, preening himself in Tiffany’s popu-
larity, but pragmatic as ever.
“I beg you not to put foolish thoughts into Tif-
fany’s head. Let us leave her to her maiden dreams.”
“You probably wouldn’t if you knew what they
were,” retorted Darien. And at that Tiffainy fairly
ran out of the room, glowing like a damask rose.
“Really,” said Peregrine, much annoyed, “I regret
that you so let your tongue run away with you, Lady
Calthorpe.”
You’ll regret it much more when somebody runs
away with,Tiffany, Darien nearly said; but she had
no mind to warn that stiff black rig. When she had
time she’d make a little candle-wax image of him,
and stick it full of pins and melt it away before a
slow fire. Then Sally would be free —poor Sally, still
so meekly at her virtuous promenade.
And Tiffany would be free, too. Tiffany, whom
Peregrine would certainly marry off to the highest
bidder unless she kicked . . . which I hope and pray
she will, thought Darien, walking down to the gate
with Sally and cursing crinolines which grew bigger
every year and picked up such a mort of flies and
daddy-long-legs to buzz in one’s petticoats. “Just
like these tester beds. So trying in a hot country,
and far too intimate,” said Darien.
IN her attic room Tiffany sat on the bed, afraid to
■ pull out the card she had hid in her pocket down-
stairs ; her heart was thumping so. Such a plain bit
of pasteboard, which couldn’t have guessed how
infinitely glorious it was to be made by the lettering.
Tiffany drew long breaths. “Capt. Richard R. Sack-
ville, 58th Reg.” Nothing those old leather books
could offer held the miracle of this.
And down in a corner in a black, careless scrawl:
“With comps R.S.” Wonderful initials, conjur-
ing up Captain Sackville with forage-cap over
his ear, with brown face full of laughter, with his
whole well-set-up self so breezy with devil-may-care
gaiety that there had never been anything like him.
Tiffany, turning her gaze from old yellow-skinned
Buddha and Confucius, had known them drop to dust
at one roving glance from a pair of laughing, grey
eyes.
He had not known. She would die if he ever
knew. And perhaps die if he didn’t. Cradling the
little card on tender hands she told herself severely
that his roses had not been very good, and began to
cry because perhaps mamma hadn’t put them in
water and she herself hadn’t dared. Then, having
until now been unaware of what love can do to you,
she cast herself face down on the pillow, the card
pressed to her cheek.
“No. I won’t be silly. I don’t care. I don’t,”
she whispered, fiercely fighting off Captain Sackville,
who so far had shown no intention of advancing. It
was correct to send flowers to young ladies whose
parents had offered entertainment. “I know he doesn’t
remember that he’s ever been in the house,” said
Tiffany, being very stern with herself. ,
Sophia knocked and hurried in. She was always
in a hurry and always late.
“Your present, Tiffy,” she gasped. “I couldn’t
get it done before. Maria had toothache and I had
to finish mamma’s petticoat. But I did every stitch with
horsehair out of horses’ tails, and I do hope you’ll
join our order now.”
Not being able to get rid of her spots, Sophia
had “gone in for” religion in the company of several
other unappreciated young ladies. They called them-
selves the Vestal Virgins (which gentlemen seemed
to find monstrous funny), went to church fasting, in
addition to wearing jute sacking next their skins to
remind them of the saints.
“Once in Royal David’s city I expect they wore
them,” cried Sophia, the red spots glowing in her
pallid face. “I wouldn’t be without mine for all the
conquering kings of the world. You can’t realise the
peace a hair-shirt gives, Tiffy.”
“I’d scratch so,” said Tiffany, doubtfully. One
couldn’t laugh at poor silly Sophy, but it was as well
Aunt Darien wasn’t there.
“You don’t like it. Oh, I’m so disappointed.”
As usual Sophia dissolved into tears.
“I’m monstrous grateful to you, Sophy dear,” said
Tiffany. “But even in flannel I can’t stop wriggling
I’d scare the town in a hair-shirt.”
“Well, remember that the meek shall inherit the
earth. Though I’m sure I’m meek enough,” cried
Sophia, bursting out again. “Oh, yes, if you hang
it in your cupboard where you can see it every day J
know you’ll soon want to wear it.”
While Tiffany had her head in the cupboard
there could be no harm peeking to see what she had
pushed under the pillow in such a hurry . . . Sophia
went away much more composed. This must be an
intrigue, and who knew that Captain Sackville hadn’t
a wife already? Far too many officers had. Woe,
woe unto man whose days are few and evil —and
Aunt Darien would probably be able to tell her how
evil they were.
OUT when Sophia, very earnest under a white chip
_ bonnet that made her look like a poached egg,
inquired, even Darien was shaken for a minute. This
damned little town, so full of that spiritual blood-
letting which seems necessary to some natures, and
Sophy just the kind of idiot to set a scandal going.
If Tiffany got in Darien’s way she’d be trampled
without compunction, but she was welcome to Dick
Sackville if she could get him. Darien put on a mys-
terious air.
“Hush,” she whispered. “I mustn’t tell secrets
but . . . did you look at the other side of the card?
No? There you are, then. Have you never heard
of a go-between?
“Why mightn’t Tiffany be helping a friend? Miss
Leta Baizey, for instance,” said Darien, sacrificing
Leta with some relish.
“Oh!” said Sophia, turning the talk again to
Maria’s toothache and mamma’s merino petticoat,
while Darien tried to remember what she knew of
Captain Sackville.
Good-looking enough in a brown muscular way,
Captain Sackville. Rather standing off the women,
as though aware that those laughing eyes of his did
more havoc than he wished, but monstrous popular
with the men. Often Calthorpe brought her from the
barracks the last racy story of Dick Sackville’s.
“Don’t respect anything,” said Calthorpe, who wor-
shipped the British Army with all its capitals, “but
such doosed good company.”
That, it seemed, was all. Darien was disappointed
in Tiffany. Probably Sophia imagined it, she thought,
going off to dance with one and another on Mrs.
Pinshon’s carpet and asking where was Captain Sack-
ville to-night? Her shy subaltern was too enchanted
by Lady Calthorpe’s hair, her eyes, her whole glorious
intoxicating self to be very coherent, but Darien
gathered that Sackville had gone with choice com-
pany to climb Jacob’s Ladder —three dizzy flights
of a hundred steps each, without handrail, that went
up by Graham’s Bond to Britomart Point.
“A regular moonraker, Sackville. Nothing that
fellow won’t do/’ said the subaltern. Darien reflected
that there was still one thing left for Sackville to do.
He might break his neck, and she rather hoped he
would, going herself to the buffet for a glass of wine.
Jermyn was there, and Sir Winston and others,
all being, as usual, very wise about England. “What
did England want this wretched country for?” de-
manded a captain who wished to go home to his wife.
“She don’t want it,” explained Sir Winston. “But
‘Rule Britannia,V y’ know —Dibden ... I think. She
always has to kill out the savages. Can’t leave any
country to them. A crime in these days, egad.”
“There you have the whole ethics of civilisation,”
said Jermyn. “There’s no enemy left to kill in Eng-
land now . . . except the Government’s Ministers, and
o Continued on page 50.)


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 O 0
' (Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office; IS Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Me
®D
Lf 3
K
Ul
////
Sc
«c
§s^
ft
Si
S N »'S
»
S»
Fver Ready
TORCHES AND
TORCH REFILLS
sword in one hand and a brick in the other. Of the
opposition he encountered. Of the machinations of
Sanballat the Horonite and Tobiah the Ammonite and
of Geshem the Arabian. Of the people who helped
him, the priests, the son of a goldsmith and the son
of a chemist.
In ihe XLVth psalm the groomsmen are dressing
the King:
All thy garments smell of myrrh, aloes and cassia, out
of the ivory palaces.
The bridesmaids next door (bridesmaids haven’t
altered much in 2800 years) are quizzing the
trousseau: —-
Her clothing is of wrought gold.
She shall be brought unto the King in raiment of
needlework.
That young prince was Ahab and the princess
Jezebel, and back in the Book of Kings is the story
of unfulfilled promise:
And one washed the chariot in the pool of Samaria;
and the dogs licked up his blood.
In the portion of Jezreal shall dogs eat the flesh of
Jezebel. So that [men] shall not say “This is Jezebel.”
The story of Michal, Saul’s daughter, is magnifi-
cent literature. A modern novelist would require 500
pages to tell it. Hollywood would want four reels.
Yet in the third chapter of the Second Book of Samuel
the O.T. narrator tells it in ten lines.
The New Testament becomes most dramatic read
in the order in which it burst upon the world : the
personal letters of the Apostles first. When St. Paul
wrote and asked that his overcoat, which he had left
behind at Troas, or his parchments and writing
materials should be forwarded to him he had no idea
that 1900 years afterwards Christendom would still
be reading it as canonical scripture.
The story of the Ephesian riot has some splen-
did modern touches. Demetrius, the silversmith,
makes a speech to the “workers of like occupation”
protesting that through St. Paul’s preaching and
actions their craft “by which we have our wealth”
will be endangered, and then adds as a sort of after-
thought “the great goddess Diana be despised.” But
the cream of the joke follows when the Town Clerk,
all bustled and perturbed officialdom lest Caesar should
hear of the uproar, sets out to quieten the crowd :
For we are in danger to be called in question for
this day’s uproar, there being no cause whereby we
may give an account of this concourse.- And when he
had thus spoken, he dismissed the assembly.
Those are only a few instances of the romance
of the Bible literature. There are pastoral stories of
primitive peoples, there is a drama finer than “Hamlet”
or “Faust,” there is the hymn book of the ancient
Jewish Church, there are priceless histories, there are
love stories from the hills of Bethlehem, there are the
oldest detective stories in the world, complete with the
science of footprints, there are terrible prophetic utter-
ances delivered whilst the thunders rolled and the
lightnings flashed. There are four collections of the
words and deeds of Jesus of Nazareth. There are
letters written by Apostles, some from prison. . Last
of all there are the Letters to the seven Churches of
Asia and the celestial visions of an aged saint,
banished to a barren island in the Aigean Sea.
And—all these in English which is itself the
inspiration of and the pattern for all that is best in
our literature.
RANSOME T. WYATT.
Masefield Among the "Gentry."
The Poet Laureate, John Masefield, has put forth
his forty-sixth book, a novel, The Square Peg or the
Gun Fella (Heinemann) It is a rather confused piece,
set in darkest rural England.
It is the history of a series of conflicts between
Frampton Mansell, a wealthy armament manufac-
turer of humble origins, and the landed gentry of
Tatshire in whose midst he settled. Mansell looked
like Drake. “He walked with a swagger and stood
with an air.”
He bought Mulples, a beautiful old manor fallen
into decay, and renovated it for his fiancee, Margaret,
but she was killed on the eve of the wedding. He
lived grimly on in his manor trying to do all the
things that Margaret would have liked, in the inter-
vals of inventing ever deadlier and deadlier guns.
Because her heart was tender he closed his woods
to the local hunt and made of them a bird sanctuary.
Because Margaret loved beauty Mansell tried to
foster it among the farmers and small tradesmen of
his district. This landed him in further trouble when
he tried to intervene in the matter of the village war
memorial. Beaten in that field, he offered to present
the municipal council with two statues called “The
Female Griefs.” He was thwarted again and became
a social pariah. At last he discovered a ballet dancer
who was the image of his lost Margaret and married
her. The happy ending occurs rather suddenly, giving
the impression that Masefield had grown tired of his
book and had cobbled it at the end.
There are some witty and satiric accounts of
council meetings and local worthies, but these do not
save the book from dragging. Horseplay, which
largely makes up its action, yields but dull reading.
Disintegration both in plot and character-drawing mars
the whole.
"Thirteen O’Clock."
Stephen Vincent Benet’s Thirteen O’Clock (Heine-
mann) is a procession of long short stories marching
from remotest fantasy to everyday life. It is in four
parts, each moving nearer life until in the last the
author puts his finger on a living pulse.
In the first section there is one story, and it is
set in the remote future when the civilisation that we
know has fallen into decay and become a legend to
a young new world. New York is “a Place of Dead
Gods.” A priest—the new man of the new world —
greatly daring, makes a ritual journey through the
ruins and comes on a great new truth when he dis-
covers a mummified body. “But they were men who
built the city, not gods or demons. They were men.
I remember the dead man’s face. We must build
again.” It is the beginning of another cycle of pro-
gress. The story lifts the reader’s mind on the crest
of a gathering wave. It reveals Benet’s power of
creating atmosphere and of handling a large subject
in a simple way.
The second section is fantastic in a more hoinely
way. “The King of the Cats” is about a Siamese
princess and a musician with a tail; “A Story by
Angela Poe” is a neat anecdote that leaves curiosity
stimulated but not satisfied, and “The Treasure of
Vasco Gomez” is the beautifully written and, in an
odd way, convincing story of a buccaneer who was
marooned on an island with his treasure and gradually
discovered himself, dying of that knowledge in the
midst of natural plenty.
The third group contains four stories that have
the flavor of folklore, but folklore made out ot
modern materials. We see the man Napoleon might
have been had he lived and died before the French
Revolution ; discover a new version of the rape ot
the Sabine women ; and see Daniel Webster, in two
preposterous but lifelike tales, in commerce with the
Devil and a sea-serpent. They are very racy, and
there is reality under their unreality.
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
This year’s S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
competition has attracted between 150 and 160
novels from writers in all Australian States,
from Maoriland and the Pacific Islands, also
from Australians resident in England, South
Africa and U.S.A.
Total is over 50 more than for last year.
Entries will be acknowledged in next week’s
Bulletin.
Judging is expected to take from six to
eight weeks, and it is hoped to announce the
result about the last week in July.
The final judging this year will be carried
out by Frank Dolby Davison and the Editor of
The Bulletin. Frank Dal by Davison is well
known to Australian readers as the author of
“Man-Shy,” “Wells of Beersheba,” “Caribbean
Interlude” and other published books, and as
a sound literary critic.
Conditions governing the 1939 S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize will be published in an early
issue of The Bulletin.
Pearl Buck Quits China.
Pearl Buck has forsaken China in her new novel,
This Proud Heart (Methuen), and has stepped into the
cold daylight of contemporary life in provincial
America. She has divested herself of the glamor ot
her Chinese settings, and the effect is rather discourag-
ing to admirers of The Good Earth. A commonplace
setting exacts more imaginative elan that she is able to
bring to it.
One thing that she has brought intact into her
new sphere is her ardent feminism. Ihe Proud Heart
is a ptean in praise of Susan Gaylord and a record
of her long and triumphant fight against the world
of men.
Susan was a genius. She did everything well, and
this drew upon her a vague hostility in the little town
full of mediocrities where she grew up. Her powers
found their expression in sculpture. She put aside
her career, however, to marry Mark, who was in
real estate. Mark seems to be the author’s idea of
a good man. Day in, day out, he told Susan that he
was not good enough for her, and finally left her free
to go back to her art by dying very quietly of typhoid
fever.
Susan took her two children and a faithful out-
spoken retainer to Paris to study anatomy and sculp-
ture, but on the threshold of fame she met another
man, very different from Mark, Blake Kinnaird, and
fell in love with him. They married, and he tried
to subject her to his egoism. The indomitable Susan
outgrew him and finally left him to go on with her
work.
Her way was now clear of men, and she went
from strength to strength. She had reached the place
where she knew that “work is a sort of heaven where
there is neither male nor female.” Her gruff old
master —why is there always a gruff old master? —
cursed deeply because her “great gift” had been given
to a woman, and everyone warned her that her sex
was a handicap, but she triumphed, and even her
traducers became in the end her willing slaves. You
feel that Pearl Buck has given the male sex a smart
rap this time.
Very few male novelists have been able to por-
tray genius convincingly. Stone did it in Lust for
Life, Charles Morgan did it more than once, Pearl
Buck has not been able to do it in This Proud Heart.
She has the idea of an elementary force thrusting
through life to its fulfilment, yet it never comes alive.
Susan is an unsympathetic character partly because
too much is done for her. She is propelled along by
her creator instead of moving under her own steam.
The other characters are too obviously adjuncts to her.
Rosemary's Sydney.
In Sing a Song of Sydney (Chapman and Hall),
Rosemary Rees has every reason to sing.
Her imagination blooms in a sunny world where
a young man can begin on a Domain bench and end
up good friends with a station-owning grandfather,
where a girl can start as a nervous candidate for
musical comedy chorus and finally star in a part
specially written for her by her sweetheart, and where
the middle-aged but very charming guest-house pro-
prietress who takes these two under her wing in the
first place is one of the four principals when the tale
ends with a double peal of wedding-bells.
The setting is Darlinghurst and the theatre, with
night club and rural excursions. Rosemary Rees’s
romances are well plotted and nicely written. This
one won’t lose her any friends.


Fay Compton
I agree
"its smart
to smoke
Ardatksf
„ r.
a*"
/AIM*""
2,6^
db 6t
VO^feV 13
ot u GV® 1
9* e
0®
e-r
r.o*
S ot '
>'Wf
&»
*A l
■iV* 6
.o^ 9
•to e
t,O
'V^
Kfl
; v^ 3
yS-
0*
*»•*
'TO *•’ A *&VV e „ t,°
* ~ ,v^ 5
t X.® S «.P OCl ’ >9 6 *
,„9.f et Aa .iY>. nj( e9 V
O VS -*r&* , a o°*
gTO 1
ay'
19.9'
■iO
,^ 5 *
NOW IN TINS OF
20 for 1/6
Also laube boxes of 10 for 9d.
Flat and Round 50’s and 100*9.
SPECIAL VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
8149-6.8 I


¥
r~'-.
<
rJ \ *
«£va- '■
.
*• ” • M T&AfrWt
m. . -
■** 'w -T vs?.
■:x *: - : ■-* *
s
fl*
■ ■■•
: M
1 ■
ss#*
f
■
:
H
1
#**
* !
ni
H
f
mm
f
.
w


“OLD FRIENDS, OLD TIMES, OLD CARTS.”
"The mama for speed....Little time would be gained if air mails [from abroad] were sent on to Melbourne by air instead of in the ordinary way.”—Minister Thorby.
“It beats me why people want them things to carry their letters instead of good old Dobbin.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (/4hs.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, N,ew Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
BLUNDERING INTO TROUBLE.
The time has come when the seven Australian
Governments must realise—even if six of them are
incapable of realising that they are superfluous—that
this country is in danger of drifting into another
depression.
The Americans are having a second edition of
their slump, though the fancy term for it is “business
recession,” and all that their Government can think
of is to take more huge draughts of hair-of-the-dog.
If we suffer their experience, the same nostrum will
assuredly be tried by our Mr. Casey. But with the
recent London flotation a failure, with the attempt
to get £10,000,000 locally only a last-moment success
after a harrowing period of uncertainty, and with
£80,000,000 of Australian debt due for conversion
in December, allaying of the inevitable clamor for
more unemployed-relief works might mean recourse
to the desperate expedient of forced loans.
The chronology of depressions can never be
exact, but our tribulation lasted at least five years.
Recovery had a moral basis, the main factor being
the good sense, good temper and resourcefulness of
the Australian people, who stoutly endured hard times
and taxes which are still terrific. Material aids to
recovery were improvements in commodity prices and
measures, chiefly financial, which were suggested to
bewildered politicians by outsiders whom, in their
bewilderment, they consulted —chiefly bankers (one
in particular) and economists.
The worst hurdle that had to be taken was the
interest bill that had accumulated after a generation
of crazy borrowing. It was tackled on the principle
that desperate diseases demand desperate remedies:
in Australia holders of Government securities were
compelled by law to accept a per cent, interest-
reduction, and, to avoid the danger of default over-
seas, the Australian pound was devalued and the gold
reserve shipped to London. There the banks were
induced to carry £30,000,000 of “short-term”
debt, long-term debt amounting to £198,500,000
was in the course of five converted at lower
rates of interest, and funds were replenished by the
proceeds of profitable sales of exports, principally
wool. In the result, the value by which exports
exceeded imports sufficed to meet the claims of the
overseas creditor, and for the year to June 30, 1937,
there was something over.
That situation has changed rapidly for the worse.
For ten months of 1936-37 exports were worth
£32,255,000 sterling more than imports ; for the corre-
sponding period of 1937-38 the balance ’ was only
£11,823,000 sterling. That involves a serious contrac-
tion of the funds out of which interest is paid ; for
a full year £23,000,000 is required. Exports of wheat,
butter, sugar, beef, lamb and dried fruits are up, but
base metals are down; and in pounds Australian
greasy wool dropped from £50,750,400 to £36,384,300,
scoured wool and tops from £6,182,300 to £4,936,500.
And, of course, imports rose sharply, the increase for
the ten months being £17,590,000 sterling.
The position is really worse than the balance
of £11,823,000 sterling suggests, for the fall in com-
modity prices has been most decided during the last
few months. Base metals are down 60 per cent, from
their peak; wheat, which soared above ss. a bushel in
the first part of the financial year, is now round 3s. 6d. at
ports ; wool, which averaged 16.8 d. Australian a pound
in 1936-37, has averaged only 12.5 d. during the season
now closing, and June prices have been 5 per cent,
lower than May prices. Out of income in the bad
year the woolgrower has to pay taxes on income from
the good year.
The Commonwealth Taxation Department has
thoughtfully issued a 69-page book, 10 inches by eight
inches, to show how much will be extracted from the
woolgrower this year by the pack of tax-gatherers:
on “personal” net income of £l5OO, supposing he has
a wife and one child, £264 12s. sd. in Queensland,
£l9l ss. 9d. in Westralia, £166 12s. 2d. in N. S. Wales,
£164 18s. Bd. in South Australia, £l5O ss. lid. in
Victoria, and £l5O 6s. 7d. in Tasmania (on the same
amount of income from property, a man with a wife
and child pays £349 os. 6d. in Queensland, £267 16s.
6d. in Victoria, £264 Bs. in S.A., £247 os. Id. in W.A.,
£243 7s. 9d. in N. S. Wales, and £243 14s. lOd. in Tas-
mania). The grazier has also had to put more into
pay-envelopes and pay more for the necessaries of
life —a penny a pound was added to the local price of
butter last week, partly because the price of Australian
butter is down in Britain. And he has had to struggle
—and in parts of Australia is still struggling—with
drought. As one result, the wool clip, estimated in
1937 at 3,146,000 bales, is expected by the trade to
drop to 2,970,000 bales in 1938 ; and in the drought-
stricken districts such fleeces as may be shorn will be
lighter.
What preparations are the seven Governments
making for the conditions which the slump in value
of exports, the boom in value of imports and the
unfortunate change that has come over the wool-
growing, wheatgrowing and base-metal industries
must bring about? None whatever.
On the contrary, they continue to borrow, chiefly
for “works” that will never pay, as much as the
Commonwealth Bank Board thinks the market
will stand—and continue to growl, some of them,
because it isn’t enough for their alleged needs. They
are sending more deadheads abroad than ever. The
gentlemen at Canberra have raised their salaries, and
the gentlemen in Macquarie-street, Sydney, propose
to freeze on to something more for themselves. More
Government jobs are being created. Another inter-
state commission is to be established, with power
to draw five salaries —under the Constitution, as inter-
preted by the High Court, this is the only power the
five members will have. Having meddled disastrously
with the sale of wool to Japan, the Lyons Govern-
ment is now —on the strength of one man’s report,,
made at second hand—stopping the sale of iron ore,
and shutting its eyes and ears to reports that Japanese
and British claims for compensation will be sky-high.
And it is shutting its eyes and ears to what is going
on in the N. S. Wales coalmining districts, where the
Red and Pink leaders of the miners and their dumb-
driven associates are threatening another strike —this
time for the 30-hour week, pensions and what not.
They blithely mention that their last strike cost the
unions £BOO,OOO in strike pay alone. It is a super-
stitious age, and the superstitious have doubtless noted
that coalmining strikes are nearly always timed for
slumps and wars.
And in this situation Mr. Casey has come to
light with an ill-considered plan of what he has the
face to call “national” insurance, a plan slavishly
modelled on something that exists in Britain, where
conditions and the ways of the inhabitants are alto-
gether different. It is flatly opposed by 99 per cent,
of the doctors cast for the medical part, by the political
party which speaks for at least 80 per cent, of the
people who are to be showered with alleged “benefits”
and by the friendly societies, which are expected to do
much of the administrative work. The opposition is
so furious, and comes from so many quarters, that
the Government is promising concessions all round.
These concessions will play old Harry with what is
called “the actuarial basis of the scheme.” And even
before any promise was made Mr. Casey was blither-
ing that “ ‘national’ insurance will place as great a
financial burden on the Commonwealth as we can
possibly carry; indeed, it will indefinitely limit the
possibility of extensions of Commonwealth Govern-
ment activities.” This at a time when the multipli-
cation of expenditure on the starved defences has
become a matter of the greatest urgency!
Does anyone outside Canberra believe this Gov-
ernment capable of running a hoopla joint, let alone
national insurance? Like Swift’s tree, it is “dying at
the top”—perishing of its own ineptitude.
Slow as Cold Treacle.
The Commonwealth Government’s civil aviation policy
is one of dull resistance to development and improve-
ment varied by petulant speeches and —at long inter-
vals —spasmodic decisions. Everything that has been
done in aviation in Australia in the past few years
has been done in the face of opposition from the
Ministers charged with the responsibility—Defence
Ministers, as it oddly happened—Mr. Pearce, Mr.
Parkhill and Mr. Thorby.
In Mr. Pearce’s time commercial flying was virtu-
ally restricted to two or three outback routes. Men
talked of an England-Australia air-mail, but Mr.
Pearce assumed a pose of masterly inactivity, till
one day an American machine, flown by Dutch, jour-
neyed from England to Australia with passengers in
four and a half days. After that an England-Australia
service came into being. Schedule time was 14
days, and the machines occasionally arrived on time.
The postal charges were —and are—the steepest in
the world.
Mr. Parkhill, succeeding Mr. Pearce, became his
worthy disciple. The British Government decided
upon a fast, cheap, all-Empire air-mail service, and
proceeded to combine with Imperial Airways to bring
it into existence, using long-range flying boats and
reducing postage to lid. per letter. The South African
and other Governments co-operated without delay,
but not the Government at Canberra. Mr. Parkhill did
not like flying boats. Other authorities, including those
of the company which was to operate the Australian
lap of the service, were strongly of opinion that they
were the very type of machine for the job, but Mr.
Parkhill knew better. And Mr. Parkhill was against
unification of the route because he was under the
impression that “Australia controlled the air between
Darwin and Singapore.” So acceptance of the British
plan was delayed until public patience broke down.
In the consulship of Parkhill also, pressure of
public opinion led to a revolution in internal commer-
cial flying. One gallant attempt had been made before
Mr. Parkhill’s time to maintain a service between
capitals; it failed through shortage of funds, lack of
facilities and the slowness and discomfort of the
machines available. For years the Government had
been implored to permit the licensing of new-type
American monoplanes designed for long-distance
work, and therefore suitable for Australian condi-
tions. These machines were flying millions of miles
a vear, mostly at night, operating a schedule
across the U.S.A. and suffering few mishaps except
through ice-formation on the wings in winter. But
Mr. Parkhill and his advisers were convinced that
they were dangerous. Shipping and other interests
went into the flying business, and the Government
turned a somersault.
Australian internal airlines now fly the latest
machines, and some of the fastest. A company-owned
Lockheed can do 240 m.p.h. Only services on which
the Government has laid a palsied hand —Australia-
Singapore, for example—have remained slow and
behind the times.
Private companies have linked 90 Australian
centres. They have given the capitals frequent daily
connection—Brisbane and Sydney and Sydney and
Melbourne have a minimum of three mail services
by air per day, except on Sundays. Air travel from
Brisbane to Sydney and back, with ample time for
business, can be done in a day at a cost of £l3. The
rail journey from Sydney to Brisbane takes 19 hours,
and the cost of the return round trip, first-class, works
out at about £l4, including meals. On some routes
a man and his wife can save money by taking a ’plane,
since it is half-fare for the lady. Small parcels are
airborne between capitals at railway rates. Australian
commercial flying within a couple of years has become
a matter for pride, in everything except ground equip-
ment and in the things for which the Government
should be responsible in the interests of defence —the
provision of up-to-date aerodromes, radio beacons
and the like.
South Africa has had the benefit of the Ud.
mail service for a twelvemonth. The Australian
Government has known for 2\ years that it would
have to accept the flying-boat scheme, yet with
ready to begin the service next month it hadn’t decided
last week what the internal mail rates are going to
be. Long ago it was grudgingly allowed that the Post
Office would be forced to give up most of the Is. 6d.
per half-ounce it exacts for the carriage of letters and
parcels to Britain, as a vulture is dragged from its
prey ; and until last week the public was led to believe
that the new charges would be ljd. Britain-Australia
and sd. Australia-London, Then State Premiers and
other politicians learned that it was seriously proposed
to clap a surcharge on inward letters other than those
addressed to Brisbane or Sydney, and that many
of those on whom the surcharge was inflicted would
get their letters by train. And then the band played.
The surcharge allegation was neither admitted
nor denied. But a defence was attempted of the
proposal to requisition trains. Though night flying
has been standard practice in Europe and in the
U.S.A. for eight years, Mr. Thorby and his colleagues
are so far behind the rest of the world that they
think it might be risky. Mr. Thorby, for his part,
deprecated “the mania for speed” which afflicts every
section of the modern world, especially letter-writers.
The week-end found a now-alarmed Govern-
ment assuring everybody that it would get letters and
packages from the U.K. carried by ’plane to the dis-
satisfied States, and that there would be no surcharge.
Meanwhile, some of its own disgusted supporters have
pointed out that selection of harbor sites and build-
ing of hangars and the like were delayed so long that
the main base at Sydney will not be ready till Sep-
tember, though the service is to start in a fortnight.
But Mr. Thorby is not perturbed. He is persuaded
that “ground organisation has reached a sufficiently
advanced stage,” and that hangars will not be needed
for repair work for some months. During that period
passengers from Europe will be able to compare Mr.
Thorby’s primitive bases with the vast equipment at
Croydon (Eng.) and the £2,000,000 aerodrome at
Singapore.
To make other comparisons, they will have to
wait. Organisational facilities considered essential in
great flying countries do not exist in Australia.
Nevertheless, Australians have become so air-
minded that not even the existence of a Government
without a policy can stifle the progress of civil aviation.
The 90 centres now served will be 900 within a decade.
Aeroplane competition is going to give seven Railway
Commissioners bad headaches. Some of them recog-
nise it, and an extension of the transport-strangulation
policy may soon be suggested.
Transport control should be a national- matter,
as it is in Britain, South Africa and Maoriland.
Defence and transport cannot be safely separated. It
is against the interests of the nation that State Govern-
ments and officials should control and thwart competi-
tion with their insolvent railways on roads which may
be needed for the transport of troops, and that they
should be in a position to discourage the development
of modern fast aircraft convertible into war machines.
But before the people are likely to agree to Common-
wealth control, aerial policy will have to be in better
hands than those of Mr. Lyons and Mr. Thorby.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Two Reporting Standards.
What mugs these Nazis must be to let anti-Fascist
writers into the secrets of their foulest plots! Take,
for example, “a memoir drawn up by Hitler of his
visit to Italy.” Copies were “numbered” and “strictly”
limited to “the most important Nazi officials.” But
one must have been passed on to Madame Two-Blues,
of “l’CEuvre” ; anyway, that unwearied Left-Winger
exposes the deadly programme:
(1) Final occupation of Spain by Italy and Germany.
(2) Protection of the Rome-Berlin axis as against
Russia, by taking over Bohemia, including Prague.
(3) Attack on France, forcing the unconditional
return of the colonies and Alsace-Lorraine, also Savoy
and Tunisia.
A contributor to “S. M. Herald,” unnamed, but
vouched for by that paper as “a leading Dutch com-
mentator on international affairs,” has likewise been
admitted to “a confidential circle of about a dozen
of the highest civil and military advisers of Hitler.”
He must have been, because he reports Goebbels as
saying, with “absolute conviction,” in the presence “of
the Leader himself,” that “the real enemy of Germany
and Britain was not Mr. Eden, but that Mr. Chamber-
lain and Lord Halifax, behind a mask of conciliation,
were seeking to prevent Germany from carrying out
her mission in the world.”
It may safely be assumed that Goring, who was
present, shares his rival’s suspicions of Britain.
Lord Halifax, and probably Mr. Chamberlain also,
has reached the conviction that it was a mistake to
enter into separate negotiations with Italy without
demanding the presence of France.
In respect to Spain as well as Czechoslovakia, the
dangers have increased. Lord Halifax appears to have
reached this view, because in a conversation with one
of the best-known Ministers of the Continent he
expressed unreservedly his fear that England had not,
in time, shown sufficient interest in Middle European
affairs.
Lord Halifax returned from Geneva with an alarmed
mind, and is said to have offered the Prime Minister
his resignation. It appears that
There was a lot more of it, and “Granny”
presented the stuff to her readers as cold truth. But
if one of her own reporters pitched a tale to the
news editor that he had somehow got from an un-
friendly quarter secret information damaging to that
quarter, and “supported” it with a string of assump-
tions and surmises, he would almost certainly go out
of the room in a hurry, and his “copy” after him.
In local reporting newspapers like the “Herald” do
not accept maladroit substitutes for verifiable facts.
It is a pity that they lower their own standards in
respect of foreign news and comment.
This Other Eden.
Within a month Mr. Casey has been forced into
acquiescence in important departures from the original
actuarial framework of his National Incubus Bill:
he has made doctors jeer by posing as an authority
on standards of medical practice ; he has alienated
the women’s vote in his own electorate ; and he has
infuriated the Senate.
Mr. Casey has become an Australian edition of
Mr. Anthony Eden, whom he resembles so closely in
looks and sartorial elegance. The resemblance goes
deeper. Mr. Eden also became rattled when faced
with a situation beyond his control. He set himself
up as the final authority on subjects of which
he possessed no intimate knowledge. He was
enabled to pursue his meteoric career only by the
tired pusillanimity of a Prime Minister who had been
too long in power to care much either way.
The ending of Mr. Eden’s antics is recent history.
Luckily, Mr. Casey cannot imperil Australia from
the outside, but if he is permitted to continue on his
present course he will land the country in a financial
morass.
The health provisions of the National Incubus
Bill have been used to obscure the real national issue,
that of pensions. Pensions could, with great advantage,
be cut out of the bill altogether, since they offer no
more than is already available from voluntary effort,
and, in at least one respect, less. Their elimination
would cut the cackle, and leave in clear view the
staggering burden which Mr. Casey is striving to load
upon Australia’s shoulders.
The hot-air marathon of 400,000 mostly irrelevant
and platitudinous words which accompanied the second
reading was addressed to an almost empty House of
Reps., and in no way represents serious deliberation.
Voting was on strictly party lines throughout except
for one breakaway. Mr. Casey has obviously set his
heart on galloping the measure through the committee
stage in order to get the benefit of the present large
Senatorial majority before it disappears at the end
of June. Mr. Lyons seems to have given up all
attempt to restrain his impetuous henchman, just as
Mr. Baldwin gave up trying to control Mr. Casey’s
English prototype. Unfortunately the remedy which
cured the Eden trouble is not available in these parts.
' The New British Navy.
The 1938 naval textbooks which have just reached
Australia show that, though Britain may have been
dilatory in naval effort, there is no mistake about
its 1938 programme. There has been nothing like it
in any country in time of peace, and the war-time
effort was scarcely greater.
Apart from the fact that several existing warships
are being almost entirely reconstructed, as some —
notably the Renown and the Warsprite—have already
been, there are five 25,000-tonners on the stocks —King
George V., Prince of Wales, Anson, Beatty and
Jellicoe—and two more of 41,000 tons are contem-
plated. Then there are four 22,000-ton aircraft carriers
building, any one of which could accommodate almost
the whole of the R.A.A.F.
New cruiser construction begins with seven of
the Dido class, 5000 tons; three improved Southamp-
tons, about the size of the Australia and the Canberra ;
and five of the Fiji class, each of 8000 tons. Another
eight of the Southampton class were added last year.
Particulars of the new ships are not yet available, but
what they will be like can be guessed from the exist-
ing Southamptons, which have 12 6in. guns, eight
4in. anti-aircraft, two smaller guns and three aircraft.
Nine 6in. guns have hitherto been the limit on any
British cruiser ; the Sydney carries eight six-inchers
and four four-inchers. Next come 17 flotilla leaders,
each armed wtih eight 4.7’s and rated at 1850 tons ;
then 24 destroyers, mainly carrying six 4.7’s—speeds
round 36 knots —19 submarines, six armed sloops and
a long list of gunboats and motor-boats.
Before next year it is expected that 130,000 tons
of the 547,000 tons under construction on January 1
will be in service—in other words, 60 new vessels —and
the increase will be accelerated in the years following.
Italy has under construction two battleships of
35,000 tons, no cruisers, 30 destroyers and flotilla
leaders, 25 submarines, four gunboats and a sloop.
The new German programme comprises two battle-
ships with 14in. guns and two with llin. guns, five
cruisers, two aircraft-carriers, 16 leaders and destroyers,
12 torpedo boats, 15 submarines and some miscel-
laneous craft.
Taken all round the British navy in European
waters is more powerful in ships from 5000 tons
upwards than all the rest of the European navies put
together.
When existing programmes are completed the
British Empire will have 533,650 cruiser tons against
567,000 cruiser tons owned by France, Japan and
Italy combined. Battleship strength—not counting
the projected 41,000-tonners —will be 543,000 tons
against 482,000 tons owned by Japan, France, Italy,
the U.S.S.R. and Germany together.
The same discrepancies between other countries
and Britain are noticeable in aircraft construction.
There is also a marked discrepancy between
Dominion efforts and the British effort —all too marked
as far as Australia is concerned.
"Lights to Guide."
“Captain Pintle” : The Court inquiry into the strand-
ing of the Dalia on Mecca Reef, Torres Strait,
revealed a matter which should receive immediate
attention from the Navigation and Lighthouses Depart-
ment.
The principal lighthouse engineer stated that the
light at Hammond Rock possessed an angle of indeci-
sion or partial obscuration where the red sector
changed to the white. In other words, the light would
show different colors from different parts of the ship
as she entered the dangerous area.
The master said that when the Dalia struck it was
showing white. Implicit reliance on the accuracy of
properly-established lights is the first rule to be fol-
lowed in the job he was performing.
The department responsible should lose no time
in checking up on the accuracy of its lights in Torres
Strait—indeed, all around the Australian coast.
A South Australian Centenary.
In 1826 a young Lutheran pastor, August Kavel,
settled in a Brandenburg village, Klemzig, and for
nine years he ministered to a hardy peasant congre-
gation. In 1835 the Prussian Government sought to
impose new forms on the Lutheran church service.
It was met in Klemzig by the spirit of the Pilgrim
Fathers.
Within a few months Pfarrer Kavel had resigned
and was in London talking to George Fyfe Angas.
The subject of discussion was the founding of a
German colony in just-born S. Australia.
Angas was enthusiastic, but the Prussian Govern-
ment was not: it did everything possible to avoid
losing the citizens of Klemzig. However, in 1838 the
first band of exiles left Hamburg in the Prince George,
and after a four months’ voyage they reached their
destination in November and founded on the outskirts
of Adelaide a hamlet which they called Klemzig.
Then they were joined by more of their Prussian
compatriots and some Silesians, and under the wise
tutelage of Kavel they formed themselves into com-
munities which have endured.
The S.A. German has proved himself a fine
settler. He still speaks German, though often with
an Australian accent and a rich access of Australian
words. Now, as a century ago, his people are an
industrious, hospitable and religious folk, loving their
homes and their country, Australia.
They have done much for S.A. cultural develop-
ment, providing scientists in particular. Basedow, one
of the most versatile of Australians, was the off-
spring of a Klemziger. The wine industry owes a
great deal to Germans, and in the development of
the Murray Valley and of the wheat-and-sheep dis-
tricts their part has been honorable. Indeed, “South
Australian German” is a name for a good farmer
—and a good neighbor—in all the States.
The celebration of the centenary last week centred
in Tanunda. From Tanunda there was a world-wide
broadcast of German folk music and speeches in
English and in German, full of affection for Australia.
It says a great deal for the spirit of these people,
and for the British-Australians among whom all the
younger and middle generations have been brought
up in years when international hatred has been rife,
that they live in perfect friendliness.
A Case for Self-defence.
“Anti-Blockade” : What beats me about the situation
arising out of the bombing of merchant ships by one
side (or both sides) in Spain is the inclination of
the sufferers to lean on the British Government instead
of tackling the trouble themselves.
East Indiamen and China clippers used to be
heavily armed against privateers and the Malay pirates.
West Indian traders carried heavy armaments for their
size. The “sugar droghers”—standardised brigs which
traded to Liverpool and Bristol —were armed with 10
carronades as well as small arms in plenty.
There is nothing to prevent the owners of a
freighter in the Mediterranean, British, “Rock
Scorpion” or Levantine, from equipping their craft
with a couple of anti-aircraft or even automatic guns
of the pom-pom type. Hundreds of old models of
these can be got cheap, and genuine British crews would
be eager to learn the use of them. They would at
least keep bombers flying high instead of diving un-
molested, as they do now. Self-protection of the kind
would be no excuse for “international complications.”
When Socialists Sob.
“Ek Dum” : The contrast' between the methods of
official transport authorities and private air companies
is enough to make a Socialist sob.
The N. S. Wales Railway Department is presum-
ably looking for custom, but before he can find out
all the information there is about its rates the prospec-
tive customer must buy not one but several hand-
books—city and suburban timetables, passenger
and coaching rate-books and merchandise and live-
stock rate-books. And even when you have spent the
eighteenpence—the price of all these tomes —you are
not always fully informed.
I bought a merchandise and livestock rate-book
at the Sydney booking office, and the clerk remarked
as he collected my sixpence: “Of course, the figures
aren’t accurate. We have been trying to get corrected
books for three months.”
The G.P.O. also makes its customers pay for the
Postal Guide, but would-be purchasers of that
volume are now met with a laconic “Won’t be out
till August.”
It.was a treat to go into an airline office and be
loaded down with free printed matter.
Australian Map-making.
Australia started its outback map-making under one
of the leading experts of the day—Thomas Mitchell.
He had been Wellington’s cartographer in the
Peninsula.
Mitchell’s tradition has not been maintained.
Australia is the world’s worst-mapped continent. In
India, about half the size of Australia, all the more
settled portions have been thoroughly triangulated,
and are pictured in detail on paper, on scales up to
a mile to the inch, with 25 feet elevations shown. Well
over 90 per cent, of Australia has not been triangulated.
Large areas have been surveyed under conditions
which make maps sheer guesswork. Anybody who
has tried to travel the Northern Territory or parts
of Cape York with the help of existing maps knows
that most of them are a joke.
A. M. Blain, the member for the Northern Terri-
tory, himself a surveyor, found the Institute of Sur-
veyors at Sydney in complete agreement with him
when he deplored the map position. Good maps are
indispensable to defence. Without large-scale maps
accurate use of artillery is impossible, and general
operations have to be conducted by rule of thumb,
especially where there is no triangulation.
The Commonwealth Government has made some
half-hearted efforts at aerial survey. It is the right
approach to modern map-making; but, unfortunately,
’planes and cameras are not modern. The main result
of the aerial, geophysical and geological survey being
carried out is that it has so far cost over £lOB,OOO.
The map-makers are not to blame. Properly
equipped, they would soon provide a groundwork
which, by old-time standards, would put Australian
map- making half a century ahead of where it stands
at present.
Wanted—Originality.
“Brisbane G.” clamors for it:
The thing that strikes me most about Australia's defence
policy is its lack of originality. Though the Boers showed us
in 1899-1902 that originality is worth while, we stick to British
Army methods which were invented by the Romans. Certainly
they v/ere modified with the advent of the crossbow, but they
failed to get beyond the formal kind of duelling until Howe
learnt a few points from the American Indians and Moore
superimposed the thin red line on Dundas’s “eighteen damned
manoeuvres.”
The flavor of this era lingers. For instance, our infantry
are still armed with the .303. Quite good weapons a couple
of decades ago; but heavy to carry—as is their ammunition—
and the trajectory is such that they need resighting for varying
ranges beyond point-blank, which is short. They have a hard,
pointed bullet, so shaped that it is sensitive to atmospheric
influences. When it hits your man, unless it gets him in a
vital part it passes right through and merely gives him a short
holiday. I once put a full magazine of three-o-threes into a
buffalo at short range before I brought him down.
But take the modern American high-power sporting .22
rifles, which have been developed since the war. They are
of the same calibre as a pea-rifle. They have a muzzle
velocity about 800 ft. per second more than the .303. Light
as they are, they will kill a man where the .303 will not.
They will even kill a buffalo with more certainty than a .303.
Their point-blank range is up to about 400yds., since their
trajectory is almost flat.
Their barrels are less visible, they are more easy to
manipulate under difficult conditions and more compact. I
will guarantee to teach any youngster to shoot fairly accurately
with them in a week up to quarter of a mile at that. Their
shooting is less subject to the vagaries of atmospheric con-
ditions than the slower velocity .303, with its larger bullet.
I’d back a thousand kangaroo-shooters armed with these
weapons in open Australian country against any brigade of
infantry with military rifles of any type in use, especially if
the foreigners were not used to the Australian light.
This is merely one original avenue which needs exploring.
Anybody who knows that brand of Australian who carries
weapons in the bush would guarantee him to develop sojne
which would astonish the stranger, and some tactics, too. But
the Commonwealth Government, like other overseas countries,
still has a deep faith in European methods, and a conviction
that the technique of war can be learnt only from a British
general.
They even have regiments in kilts. Heaven help those
fellows if they ever go to Cape York and meet the Batavia
River mosquitoes!


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Colonel Bungstarter”: A curious ex-
ample of regional feminine psychology
is illustrated by the offer of Australian
Airways to carry wives at half-rates on
passenger ’planes going south from Syd-
ney. The admitted purpose is to over-
come wifely fears for hubby’s safety
should he travel by air, fears which have
had a pronounced effect on bookings.
No such attitude amongst wives has
operated on northern routes, and the
offer does not apply to them. Queensland
wives would thus appear to be either
better balanced or more airminded than
their southern sisters. They love their
lords, no doubt, but they aren’t fussy.
;!« :I: *
“Kiwit”: I know nothing about Can-'
berra’s ideathrate (B. 8/6/’3B), but I
should say it has the highest decoration-
rate in the world. The time is coming
when only office-boys will be without
some ribbon or other to pin on their
jackets. In last week’s Commonwealth
list Canberra collected more lapel-
luggage than any other Australian
centre except Melbourne; Brisbane, a
really important capital, just managed a
one-line appearance. Perhaps the idea
is that Canberra people deserve some
sort of decoration for having to live in
the place.
*}» H* *l*
“Flora”: I had offered to collect names
of workers for a Scottish night in our
N.S.W. up-country town, and the first
name my assistant —a stranger to me —
brought along was Dalziell. “And she
wants it called ‘Dal-eel,’ ” assistant said
with scorn ; “and one of her neighbors
whispered to me that it ought to be
Dahlzu/e. Why can’t they call it ‘Dal-
ziell,’ just as it’s spelt, and save all this
bother?” Just then it occurred to me to
say I didn’t know her own name and
I’d better take it down. “Oh, I thought
you knew it,” she replied brightly. “It’s
Colquhoun.”
* * * *
“Craiser”: Colonel Light (B. 8/6/’3B)
was in all probability a Eurasian. His
father, Capt. Light, administered the East
India Co.’s settlement at Penang when that
island was under the dominion of the Sul-
tan of Kedah. Light’s wife was a damsel
of Portuguese extraction named Rosells.
It is a million to one that she came from
Malacca and had Malay blood in her,
for the Portuguese had been mixing with
the native for more than 2\ centuries,
and there was no immigration from the
homeland after the Portingalls lost their
possessions and their taste for colonisa-
tion. I once climbed up the pedestal
of the Adelaide statue at midnight when
it stood in King William-street to look
for traces of the Indonesian in Light’s
physiognomy —without finding any. But
. the sculptor modelled from sketches
long after the founder was buried, and
the face is no more like any living in-
dividual’s than the conventionalised body.
* * * *
“Kea”: From M.L. comes word of
the death, at 90, of Joseph Mcßae, who
kept the tourist hotel at Wairoa, near
Rotorua, when Mt. Tarawera erupted on
June 10, 1886. It was midwinter, and
Mcßae had only one guest, a young
Englishman, who was killed by a falling
beam ; his monument is still a point of
interest. Mcßae sheltered numbers of
terrified Maoris in his hotel, and the
guide Sophia had shepherded 70 of her
kin into her whare, whose sloping roof
saved the house from collapsing under
the weight of the mud, stones and ashes
from the volcano. The local school-
master was killed, with several of his
family, by falling debris; his wife
escaped, but the child she held in her
arms was dead when released. An
island in Lake Rotomahana went sky-
high with 70 inhabitants, and there also
vanished the Pink and White Terraces.
Though Tarawera smoked and steamed
for a year afterwards, the eruption lasted
only four hours but it was so violent
that, had a city the size of London been
alongside, it would have been a ruin
under 30ft. of mud and ash.
* * ❖ *
“Baron Bunkhausen”: Reported from
Tasmania that some romantic folk there
are about to set out for Nuka-Hiva, in
the Marquesas Islands, to establish a new
Eden there. Nuka-Hiva is the island
where Herman Melville, the father of
all South Sea fictioneers, camped for a
time about 90 years ago. Herman fell
amongst the cannibals in the valley of
“ Honest , mister, I didn't say anything 'bout'your face."
Typee, and they were most hospitable,
supplying even a chaperon in “Faya-
way,” a sprightly damsel who has since
become the standard pattern for all
South Sea heroines in stories and films.
The Marquesas group also drew Gauguin,
the painter, away from wife, family and
the pursuit of lucre. Gauguin finally
came to rest on Hiva-Ora, where he
started a shindy with the missionaries ;
it lasted till 1903, when G. succumbed
to the combined effects of morphine,
absinthe, leprosy and some minor de-
rangements. Nowadays there are no
full-blooded Marquesans left, though
there are nonos —sandflies which attack
in millions and, when they’ve sucked all
the blood out of you, drop off. Even
French administrative headquarters had
to clear out of Nuka-Hiva because of
the nonos. Only very simple and blood-
less folk could live simply on Nuka-Hiva.
•{• 4*
“Maxie”: My son’s father,, home
earlier than usual, answered the door-
bell —to an engaging young man who
said he wished to see me. “What for?”
the son’s old pot demanded, with that
Chesterfieldian charm which endears him
to all. The visitor was reluctant. “I’m
a —er —a friend of hers,” he murmured.
Son’s pa left him there and charged into
my boodwah. “Who’s this ‘friend’ of
yours?” he growled. Wondering which
of them could be so silly as to arrive
at that hour, I went out —to meet a
stranger who plucked a vacuum-cleaner
from behind a rosebush and went into
his patter. He didn’t sell a cleaner, but
it was worth chocs, from a contrite
husband. All the same, it’s a queer and
dangerous approach.
* * * *
“Shep”: I remember a time when
military heads weren’t too proud to dance
with common troops (B. 8/6/’3B). It
was at Dranoutre when 1918 was being
ushered in. Our liquor and cash had run
out, but the officers were entertaining
an array of brasshat visitors. Immedi-
ately after midnight we detailed a bag-
piper and two others to pay a courtesy
call on the officers: the piper was to
kick up a row, one of the others to “first-
foot” the mess, and the third to pinch
some of their grog. No. 2 danced with the
C. 0., the A.D.M.S. and brasshats as an
excuse to hang on there, and drank with
all hands, whilst we thirsted in the cold
outside. Eventually the objective was
gained, and the dawn of 1918 brought
the “rosy” and broke rosily.
* * * *
“Mustard”: That par. of “Keg’s” (B.
1/6/’3B) gave our local gas wardens a
pleasant feeling of superiority. We do
things better in S.A. Our first gas school,
just ended, consisted of 10 two-hour
evening lectures (one hour’s theory and
one hour’s practical work) given by a
militia engineer-captain, a first-rate lec-
turer, with a small group of keen young
n.c.os. who assisted as squad instruc-
tors. At each lecture we received a typed
precis and were allowed to ask as many
questions as we liked. In the practical
work we were taught all there is to be
learned about the Mark 111 military mask,
and were frequently called upon to take
charge of a squad and go through vari-
ous phases of the drill. Every man was
taken through a gas-filled chamber;
every woman, too. Stretcher-bearing
with masks on, a realistic bomb attack
at the engineers’ depot, first-aid work,
use of protective clothing, gas-proofing
of rooms, and a practical demonstration
of decontamination were all included
in our course. As a final test we had
to sit for a comprehensive written ex-
amination. I learnt 10 times more about
gas and gas-masks in this short civilian
course than I learnt during the 12 months
I spent on the Western Front.
* * *
“Dick Tafone”: About time the law
altered its outlook on poor weak man
and the fiercer sex. Only recently an
ex-wrestler complained of having been
assaulted by a girl and sought the pro-
tection of the Courts to save him from
further aggression. Now, an armed and
masked burglar, pursuing his avocation
in the home of a Grafton {N.S.W.) book-
maker, has been tackled by the wife of
his prospective victim. The lady knocked
blazes out of him with a heavy walking-
stick, and kept on until he fled with the
loss of his hat, torch and pistol. Look-
ing across the breakfast-table to-day, I
saw a distinctly menacing look in the
missus’s eye after she had read the story,
and I’m not going to risk being late for
dinner to-night.
“S.A.D.”: Billy Hughes might have
picked up some frank local opinions on
the question of finding a new capital tor
New Guinea if he had reached Rabaul in
time for the Frangipanni Ball. It was
held on the anniversary of last year s*
eruption, and there was a tableau undei
the headings Harmonisation, Detonation,
Consternation, Evacuation, Devastation,
Restoration, Delegation, Perambulation,
Revelation, Indignation. Then all hands
chanted “The Citizens’ Lament,” in which
one lyrical quatrain announced:
There’s Salamau, Madang and Lae,
Bitapaka, Wau, Blanche Bay;
Suggestions came from east and west:
The capital’s shifting, so feather your nest.
* * * *
“T.”: Huge flats are going up in King’s
Cross, Sydney, and, to me, the neighbor-
hood grows more and more like South
Kensington, London. The resemblance
is increased by the colonies of foreigners
who make the place their stamping-
ground. There are Greeks, Italians,
Estonians, Russians (Whites mostly,
though Reds are not lacking, and they
don’t speak), French, Syrians here and
there, and Americans. The American
population varies in color proportions
as well as numbers, according to the
state of the theatrical, boxing and wrest-
ling markets ; it was at the peak when
the Marcus girls were in Sydney, though
white and black pugs and wrestlers
“from Europe” who talk Bowery have
made up some of the deficiency. Now
King’s Cross has the
beginnings of a
settlement of German
and Austrian Jews,
and it is sure to grow.
* *
“D.E.”: I have a
theory that the con-
temporary poets fail
to reach the great
heart of the people —
and fail they assuredly
do—because your con-
temporary poet pre-
fers polysyllables from
the Latin to simple
and beautiful Saxon
words that satisfied
his great forerunners.
Be that as it may,
there is a vogue for
clumsy Latinisms, as
well as for hideous
Americanisms (how
hard and bitter Ameri-
can slang is compared
with the Cockney that
is dying or dead!), and
it has affected even
the politicians and
bureaucrats. For ex-
ample, “America is
suffering from a busi-
ness recession” an
inexpressive term used,
I suspect, as a dis-
honest synonym for slump. And
“regression” is as bad as “recession.”
Treasurers juggle with “regression” when
they want to explain, without arousing
criticism, that the revenue for an ex-
pired month or quarter fell below the
revenue for the corresponding period of
the previous year; and heads of depart-
ments dig it up to signify what my first
boss, sacking me 43 years ago, described
as “the necessity for a-rearrangement of
our staff” —I was a snipe of 13, and
there were three others on the “staff.”
“Regressed transport workers” were
mentioned four times in a very small
Sydney newspaper paragraph. How ugly
the language seems when such expres-
sions are dragged in by the heels and
how lovely it can be when spoken or
written out of a full heart!
It is the knell of the curfew telling us
the hour is come when the fire must be put
out and the light quenched.
That masterpiece in 24 words —and only
one non-Saxon —was written by Isaac
Butt to his doctor after the first of the
heart-attacks which killed him.
* * * *
“Dhas” attends a Sydney Town Hall
lecture:
The only touch of politics introduced by
Von Luckner that unlucky night was at the
close of his speech, when he made an obviously
sincere plea for better understanding between
“Germany, the heart of Europe, and Britain,
the head and brains.” The preceding address
was fantastically delightful entertainment, with
the Count crouching, leaping, stamping about
the stage, waving wild arms, groaning in grief
or shouting with joy as he unfolded the story
of his adventures. And it was a vivid story.
But ill-conditioned young Reds who gave the
salute of the clenched fist howled “Fascist mur-
derer!” and shouted “Go back to Germany,
you Nazi spy!” An indignant member of the
audience rushed towards the gallery to throw
out an interjector; others cried “Out with the
Dago!” when the police were struggling with
a foreigner —such scenes illustrate how easily
Communism breeds the reaction that leads to
Fascism. It was significant that the one man in
the room who stood up and made a reasoned
plea for fair play sported a Digger’s badge.
Significant, too, that the Reds were mainly irre-
sponsible youths. Parlor pinks must be proud
of their “comrades.”
SEZ YOU.
Sez I: “The world seems out of joint
As badly as when Hamlet ran
To verse. But presently a point
We’ll reach and hammer out a plan
To make the brotherhood of man
A hope fulfilled, a dream come true.”
No contradiction flat and blunt
Comes from your lips. Instead, a grunt—
“Sez you!”
Sez I: “These Parliamentary chaps,
Our local members and the rest,
According to their lights perhaps,
Albeit more often curst than blest,
Essay to give us of their best.
They’re less concerned about their screw
Than doing their duty by the State.”
And drily you interpolate
“Sez you!”
Sez I: “Our Tubby’s spragged the lure
Of s.p. bets that mainly go
To keep the honest toiler poor
And line the kick of Ikey Mo
With wads of easy-gotten dough.
A darned tough bullet, this, to chew
For those who battened on the game.”
And still you counter with the same
“Sez you!”
Far sooner would I hear you vent
Your views with noisy petulance,
And enter (if you must) dissent
From propositions I advance
With less ironic tolerance.
Such sting is in those little two
Words, and such subtle scorn is tossed
Into that sceptical ripost
“Sez you!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Jamwood”: Love isn’t much in the
line of the press boys who send us the
foreign “news” ; but during lulls in the
war-scare business they marry off Dr.
Schuschnigg, of Austria, at a great rate.
On March 16 the Vienna correspondent
of the “Daily Mail” chronicled the union
of Dr. Schneeze, etc., with “the 27-year-
old Countess Fugger at the Belvidere
Palace in Vienna,” and the Paris “Soir”
added that 150 German Storm Troopers
were present. On June 5 the “News-
Chronicle” married the doctor to “Coun-
tess Vera Fugger von Babenhausen”
(presumably the same countess with an
expanded name) “in the private chapel
of the Dominican Church of Vienna,”
swearing on its honor as the “Cronk-
News” that the lady wore “a navy-blue
costume and a felt hat, with a short veil,
and carried the bridegroom’s bouquet of
yellow roses.” The second marriage has
been flatly denied by the “Official Spokes-
man in Vienna.” Some Official Spokes-
men are like that.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: It is irritating, if in-
teresting, to see history being faked for
the next generation. In an article on
Lawrence of Arabia, republished in Syd-
ney, it is asserted by Winston Churchill
that the Turkish armies attacking Egypt
depended on the railway through Arabia
to Medina which formed. the theatre of
“Not too loud, boys — pilot's asleep !”
Lawrence’s activities: “if it were per-
manently cut the Turkish armies must
perish.” The railway in question never
came within a hundred miles of the Sinai
border. Starting at Damascus, it runs
down the east flank of Palestine to Maan,
and then turns sharply east to Medina.
Churchill implies that Lawrence, by
attacking this line, saved Egypt and the
Canal from the Turk —ludicrous ignor-
ance of the facts for a man who was in
a better position than most to know. The
Turkish armies which advanced on Egypt
were mobilised in southern Palestine bv
, .< AT , , uy
otner means than the desert railway,
That of 1915 was easily repulsed, and the
1916 attempt was shattered at Romani
“Better than a canary, Alf —this bloke can TELL us if there's gas about.”
prior to the expulsion of the Turk from
Sinai at the end of that year. Both were
at an end before the British delegation
to the Hedjaz Arabs entered Arabia.
Lawrence had as much to do with defend-
ing Egypt and the Canal from the Turk
as the Sultan of Sulu.
•I*
“M. Turlutu”: Street names (B.
8/6/’3B), is it? Brisbane has 28 Wil-
liams, 26 Shorts, 24 Georges, 23 Johns,
22 Marys, 19 Hills, 18 Roberts, 17
Stations and Alices, 16 Edwards and
Jameses, 15 Janes and Margarets, 14 Rus-
sells and Queens, 13 Kings, Roses and
Francises, and a dozen Alfreds, Mays
and Mauds. Also 19 First, 14 Third
and 12 Fourth Avenues. Two of the
Johns are in the Nundah district, 24-
chains apart. Total duplications num-
ber 1934, and out of the whole welter
of 5743 streets in the city area probably
not one-tenth bear any nameplate or
other indication to guide the visitor.
Ludmayor Jones blames the 19 councils
who controlled the area before the days
of Greater Brisbane, but the £978,000
City Hall’s inhabitants don’t seem to
have worried muph about simplifying
matters.
“Xo”: In that par about the Melbourne
coat of arms (B. 8/6/’3B), “F.S.” was
several jumps ahead of the City Council.
When registration of the present crest was
sought in 1936 the council was rebuked by
the College of Heralds for its use of the
crown. The water-over-water feature
which so pains heraldic experts didn't
worry it much, but the thought of losing
the crown is still perturbing members.
The curious jumble suggested as a sub-
stitute crest was turned down, and, with
a slight alteration to the crown, the
council decided to seek registration of
the ill-drawn hotch-potch that has already
served Melbourne for nearly a century,
the suggestion being made that George
VI. might stretch a point. And perhaps
he will; his Majesty must be a good
sort to let bigwigs celebrate his birth-
day on June 9, and “sports” on June 13
—in each case to suit their own con-
venience—when the real date is Dec. 14.
“El V.”: If a print I have seen can
be depended upon, the College of Heralds
will be scarcely more enthusiastic about
Melbourne’s new coat
of arms than it was
about the old. The
thing looks as if it
might have won a
drawing prize in a
lower form at a young
ladies’ seminary, but
that is all that can be
said for it. It has a
whale and a full-
rigged ship, plus a
miserable slung sheep
which looks as if it
has been through a
long drought, an
anaemic bullock and
what looks like half
a rock-wallaby sitting
on top of a visored
helmet. Also, the
whole shield is bow-
ered in wattle-blos-
som. Some English
cities have strange
coat-armor, but none
can beat Melbourne’s
—not even Oxford,
which has on its shield
a bullock walking on
the waves, and a
spotted elephant with
gold tusks and silver
ears and a beaver with
a blue tail.
* *
“Senex”: That idea
of sneezing by sec-
tions, paraded by
“Dhas” (B. 8/6/’3B)
as something new in
his experience, is as
old as the immemorial hills. Known
in the long-ago as “Hish, Hash, Hosh,”
it was an immense favorite with school-
boys and University fledglings for shut-
ting up a master or lecturer who was
getting on the nerves of his hearers —
that is to say, when the risk was not
too great. It was even popular in the
old regular army when a not-liked officer
or n.c.o. raised his voice in song at
regimental concerts and similar afflictions.
Lights were always down on these last
occasions ; and, anyway, you can’t wheel
600 men up to “office” next morning.
“Pit”: Glad to hear that the rare
North Country sport of ratting was to be
seen in England as late as the Great
War (B. 8/6/’3B). I thought it had gone
down to the shades with the beautiful
little Manchester black-and-tan terriers
that were specially bred for the game.
“Exdig” errs slightly in his account of
the sport. Each dog was turned in-
dividually into the pit with a certain
number of rats, hnd the watch was put
on him (or her), the number killed in a
minute being the standard. A champion
dog would kill his 50 inside the minute.
There was no worrying: one lightning
snap, and the dying quarry was dropped
for the next.
* * * *
“Kamerad”: One thing I noticed dur-
ing the broadcasts of the S. Australian
German celebrations from Tanunda —an
ancient Teutonic convention which would
have delighted Treasurer Casey, who
speaks German, has gone west. In the
German of old Germany, audiences were
addressed not as “ladies and gentlemen,”
but as “gentlemen and ladies.” It is
“Meine Damen and Herren” in S. Aus-
tralia now.
* * * *
“S.”: The John who ran “The 0.D.”
to the station on suspicion when he hap-
pened to be near the scene of a burglary
(B. 8/6/’3B) took a risk. The one who
wanted to arrest me for being up in
time to see the sun rise explained with
the most comical regret that he couldn’t
run me in unless he could “get a bit more
on me,” or he’d be liable to prosecution
for wrongful arrest. I pointed out to him
that if I really was the burglar he was
looking for he was letting me slip through
his fingers. That he agreed was so, but
the Lor was hard on the force.
♦ ❖ * Hi
“Bray Rock”: And less use for “Pisca-
tor” (B. 8/ 6 / ’3B) to quote American
blurb on Australian swordfish habits to
one who loses good mackerel-tackle to
the hungry brutes every season. I said
that hungry swordfish don’t fool about —
they slash and eat. If the quarry hap-
pens to be knocked off a hook it makes
no difference in their bright young lives.
They are looking, not for advertisement
as having been caught by Mr. Zane
Grey, but for tucker. Having knocked
it off, they may lose it or find something
more attractive while looking for it.
There’s no such thing as arch playful-
ness among those hungry, savage sea-
spadassins, unless in the way of tickling
up a sleeping whale from below or tak-
ing a swipe at a shark out of sheer fero-
city. However many swordfish Mr.
Grey’s tackle, launchmen and assistants
may have enabled him to photograph
and write about, his remarks on their
habits, at least so far as Australian and
Maoriland kinds are concerned, display
utter ignorance.
$ * *
“Norther”: Spectators at the recent
Bonalbo (N.S.W.) show saw a sight for
sore eyes when Johnston, the president,
led his champion Hereford bull in the
parade Johnston was in full morning
dress—topper, coat, pants, spats, gloves,
cane —and ringsiders were hilarious. It
won him a fiver, for that’s what he bet
Madness, the Director of Dairying, that
he was game to do. What Bonalbo wants
to know is where the panoply had been
hid all those years.
AN ACADEMY.
“The institution of an Australian Academy of
Literature (presumably on the lines of L’Academie
Frangaise) was suggested to the Prime Minister by
a deputation from the Australian Fellowship of
W liters.”
I mildly wonder who would be
The first to crash its portals
If we had an academy
Like that illustrious coterie
Whom Frenchmen term “Th’ Immortals.”
No single word of all the heaps
For vulgar tastes that cater
Into the dictionary creeps
Without their imprimatur.
Twould puzzle the most learned gang
To draw the line, my view is,
’Tween language for polite harangue
And that interminable slang
Which nettles Judge Curlewis.
But stern reformers, I suppose,
Would put their ban on phrases
Like “Spare me days!” or “Stone the crows!”
Or “Brother, go to blazes!”
I ween they well might prove a whiz,
Our academic pillars,
Upholding as their daily biz
What really literary is—
And frowning chill on thrillers.
But let me only, ere I close,
Pray heaven in its mercies
(If Government should so dispose)
Our mentors won’t be picked from those
Whose fancies run to Sitwell prose
And Ezra Pound-ish verses.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


ft***
Ms**
m
m
9 d
10 r
or
16
20 ft
or
WIBB3
Smoker’s throat?
never , I smoke —
CRAVENA
THEY ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
mss
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
TH I S
HENERATI
EX]
POLITTICAL POINTS
It is on record that “No war!” was a
favorite expression of Queen Elizabeth
at the council table. The Bulletin sub-
mits, with great respect, that King George
might well follow his illustrious pre-
decessor’s example. It would be a wise
precaution, with politicians like Eden,
Churchill and Attlee about, and a Stunt
Press clamoring for crazy crusading wars
—with provocative lying as a first step.
Speaking in a vein very unusual for
him, Lyons said to the Westralian mem-
bers who protested against the ban on
iron-ore export that “the decision to
impose the embargo was based on an
exhaustive examination of the available
iron resources.” Retailing stuff and non-
sense can’t make a bad business better.
Every Westralian knows that there has
been no “exhaustive examination” at
Yampi or any other Westralian point
where iron ore has been found.
As the editor of tradition wrote as an
introduction to a London “Times” leader
he was lifting, “What does the ‘Times’
mean by this?”
THIRTY-SIX-YEAR DROUGHT
BROKEN IN N.S.W.
The acting-president of the Graziers’
Association describes the rain as the most
valuable for years, ending a drought which
has been widespread since 1902.
It appeared on May 26, and, for a won-
der, it wasn’t cabled, though wilder things
have appeared in the war and war-scare
news.
There seems no limit to the powers
which may be exercised by transport
bosses. H. H. Bell, chairman of the
Melbourne Tramway Board, set out for
London saying that trams were the only
caravans for his city. It is surmised that
what he has seen on his travels has
shaken his faith in trams; anyway, he
sent a cable, “Stop work on the Bourke-
street conversion.” At the same time,
Neale, of the Sydney Road Transport
Department, decides at his own sweet
will that trams shall continue to encum-
ber the city, and that this or that suburb
shall have trolley buses or Diesel buses.
Really, the public would have a lot
more control over transport if all services
were let by tender. And it wouldn’t have
to pay thumping taxes to meet losses.
Separatism would have died out in
Westralia if Canberra had let it. The
Yampi Sound business, following, as it
did, the trade-diversion tomfoolery, has
revived it. Latham, leader of the
Opposition, who, in spite of an unfavor-
able distribution of seats, may be Premier
within a twelvemonth, declares that if he
is Premier he will establish a State
broadcasting station, whether Canberra
approves or not; also that he will pre-
sent Westralia’s other claims against
Canberra in a series of enactments and
insist on their being put to a vote of all
the Australian people.
A man has been fined £lO in Sydney
for having placed two lottery prize-lists
on a bar counter, the lottery being
“foreign” i.e., sheltered by another
State. One of the disquieting features
of present-day Australia is the recrudes-
cence of provincialism, which the men of
1900 thought they had abolished. Next
to “border barbarism,” the strangling
of transport and the taxing of income
from other States, this talk of “foreign”
lotteries breeds more rancid provincialism
than anything else. A really national
Government would go in for premium
bonds, and then all the “foreign” lotteries
would wither and die.
One of the Special Representatives and
Diplomatic Correspondents who hang
round Australian news-agencies in Lon-
don suggests that there may be another
“Cabinet crisis,” and that Mr. Winston
Churchill will be in it, Churchill being
now the Great Crusader. Nineteen years
ago, Lloyd George, then his Prime Minis-
ter, said this of him to Bonar Law:
In certain moods he is dangerous. He has
Bolshevism on the brain. He wants to
make a treaty with the Germans to fight
the Bolshevists. He wants to employ
German troops, and he is mad for opera-
tions in Russia.
It would be a frightful shock for the
stunt press if the 19 years were suddenly
blotted out and if the “dangerqus” old
party woke up one morning mad again
for “operations” against the Bolshevists,
instead of against the Germans, the
Italians and the Japanese.
“My Government is definitely and
absolutely committed against conscrip-
“London newspapers have been strangely silent as to what the three wandering Common-
wealth Ministers are doing.”
“So there you are!”
tion” —Lyons a week ago. No Govern-
ment is entitled to make such a declara-
tion regardless of circumstances and of
the letter of the nation’s own Defence
Act. The Chamberlain Government is
not thus “committed.” It has reserved
the right to introduce national service
when Britain is in danger, recognising
that all possible enemies are conscript
countries, and that, however loudly
donkeys bray, conscript countries can’t
be fought without conscription.
The price of butter is up again—to
Is. sd. wholesale, Is. 7d. in shops and
Is. Bd. delivered. It is the second rise
since the referendum at which the people
were asked to mangle their Constitution
to save the cow-farmers from Roon, each
being the work of a so-called Dairy Pro-
duce Equalisation Committee. The second
manoeuvre was preceded in some quar-
ters by demands for prohibition of the
manufacture of margarine. People recog-
nise that dairy-farming is a cow of a
game, but they can be tried too high.
To the vast annoyance of Vic. Premier
Dunstan, Inchbold and MacAulay,
Ms.L.C., have thrown in their lot with
Federal Minister McEwen, Paterson,
M.H.R., and thousands of Victorian
farmers fed up with the tinpot tyranny
of a so-called Central Council — i.e.,
joined the “Liberal” Country party.
Apropos, Dunstan, Stocking and Skeeter
still call their show the United Country
party!
The U.A.P. having graciously decided
that Coogee (Sydney) is a “safe” seat,
seven candidates aspire to succeed the
posthumously-knighted Dunningham as
member, and it will be an uncommonly
interesting election. Six of the gentlemen
are U.A.P. ; the seventh is Lang Labor.
An “Independent Dependable” candidate
was too late with his nomination papers.
The daily-paper picture of Czecho-
slovakia as a democratic partnership of
two enlightened Slav peoples nobly defy-
ing “the Fascist Powers” was shattered
last week by the minor partner. As even
Our Glorious Press had to admit, “100,000
Slovaks demonstrated in support of
their demand for autonomy.” Autonomy,
their leader said, had been denied them
in deliberate infraction of an agreement
which preceded the formation of the
Synthetic Republic; it “must be secured
even at the cost of joining Germany or
Poland.” Dr. Hodza, Premier of the
Synthetic Republic, spoke at a counter-
demonstration, and asserted that “the
majority of the Slovaks” (he is one) were
“behind his Government”; but Our
Glorious Press could find only “thou-
sands” at his meeting.
A. B. Piddington, K.C., who was a
well-paid Commonwealth and N.S.W.
Commissioner (inter-State, Royal and In-
dustrial) for some years, is, it is reported,
to get a pension of £5OO a year out of
the Australian and N.S.W. public purses.
What for?
Germans in Australia confessed that
sentiment was the ruling principle in the
summary Nazification of Austria and
that Hitler might find it more of a
liability than an asset. The financial
burden must be making itself felt already,
for the German Government has de-
faulted in payment of interest on Aus-
trian loans. Thereby it has administered
a rude shock to the City, which was
disposed to be favorable; and it is
unlikely that it would do that out ol
sheer perversity. The loans were
arranged, or at least recommended, by
the exploded League.
The Maoriland and Tasmanian Laboi
parties do not share the general Labor
hostility to name-handles. Two knight-
hoods recommended by the Savage Gov-
ernment, and one recommended by the
Ogilvie Government, figured in the King s
Birthday announcements. As usual,
there was nothing from Queensland oi
Westralia, and Ogilvie’s departure from
Labor custom will deepen the gloomy
feeling on the mainland that he is going
Tory.
“This is the Minister who castigates
a ‘mania for speed’ in his critics,” snorted
“S. M. Herald,” of June 8, the subject
being air-mail procrastination and the
Minister Thorby. “Granny” might have
scored a point by adding that, while
academically scorning speed, Thorby and
colleagues have acquired the habit of
ordering the R.A.A.F. to tote them about.
On the very next day an Avro Anson
bomber, carrying Thorby and his assist-
ant secretary from Canberra to Mel-
bourne had to make a forced landing,
skilfully accomplished, east of Albury.
“Ice on the wings” was the official ex-
planation. Half an hour later a com-
mercial ’plane flying the same route got
through iceless.
Senator Macartney Abbott defends
some colleagues:
Members of the House of Representatives
can scarcely call their souls their own
I regard Assistant Ministers as heroes
Generally they work 16 hours a day
Those who live in distant States seldom
see their homes, and are denied the joys
of family life. On the other hand, they
are subjected to cheap criticism and abuse.
Enough to melt a heart of stone. And
yet hundreds of people continue to offer
their souls to the electors ; and scores,
become M.H.Rs., struggle fiercely for
the right to work 16 hours a day, eschew
the joys of family life, pose as heroes
and endure cheap criticism and abuse.
Horrible are Oriental wars and mys-
terious the ways of those responsible
for them. It is partly because their ways
are so inscrutable that English-speaking
people should keep out of their wars ;
it is perfectly conceivable that interven-
tion on one side or the other would re-
sult in a union to pitch into the inter-
vener. During all the wild months in
which newspapers have been suggesting,
-and Communists demanding, that the
British Empire and the U.S.A. should
make war on Japan to avenge what they
could not prevent, the Chinese have kept
their Embassy open in Tokio. Their
diplomats were there last week when
Canton was bombed day after day
terribly. It is asserted that they are at
last preparing to leave. If so, they will
have to pass through abandoned cities in
search of a fugitive Government.
The ladies and gentlemen of League
of Nations Union branches are angry
with the Australian Chief Justice because
of things he said to the International
Law Society in Melbourne:
Many League actions... .hasty, ill-judged
and merely productive of international diffi-
culties .... were based on a theoretical
logic which had no relation to the realities
of international situations. The League’s
consistent failure in all important crises
is evidence of that.
In other quarters it is accepted that a
Chief Justice is out of the political battle ;
but Francis Anderson and Raymond G.
Watt “cannot help wondering whether
Mr. Latham was trying unconsciously to
defend the policy for which he himself,
as Minister, was partly responsible in
relation to the conquest of Manchuria.”
Francis is a Sydney University professor.
Raymond was sent, at the public’s ex-
pense, to Geneva, where a cameraman
caught him smirking at and being smirked
at by greasy Litvinov.


Another boundary
to 6radman .**
% // I It
Don hits a. si%
' BRAsDMA.m’s out \ *
THE OUTSIDER.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia "with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised . . .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued . . . . 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. . . .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
112 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
DEPEND ON Champions
If the hills slow your car down, if your en-
gine knocks and becomes hot—the cause
may be faulty ignition. See what a big im-
provement a set of new Champions makes!
An Empire product—
made in Windsor, Canada
■ ■
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
Captain Phillip, R.N., presented most of
the trophies in this year’s Birthday stakes,
the best, a K.8.E., going to J. M. Dun-
ningham, who didn’t live to adorn it.
Sydney Town Clerk Roy Hendy earned
a C.M.G., and a shower of minor decora-
tions fell on sesqui. officials. Other
K. went to A. C. Davidson, of the
’Wales, and Sam Hordern, president of
the N. S. Wales R.A.S. There are five
knights-bachelor—T. S. Gordon, of Birt
and Co., H. P. Brown, of the Post Office,
R. B. Wade, a Maequarie-street doctor,
Justice Macfarlan, of Victoria, and
Justice Crisp, of the Speck. C.M.Gs.
descended on Prof. A. E. V. Richardson,
of S.A. and Vic. (scientific and industrial
research), and C. F. Crosby, of Mel-
bourne’s Y.M.C.A. And C.B.Es. to
L. R. Macgregor (Trade Commissioner in
Canada), Gregan McMahon (Melb.
repertory), E. C. Sommerlad (N. S. Wales
Country Press, Country party, and
sesqui.), Alderman E. S. Marks (he
heard the news in hospital), G. W. F.
Holland (Vic. Diggers) and Dr. A. L.
Kenny. Flight-Lieut. Hely scored an Air
Force Cross for his rescues of lost fliers
up north.
Thomas Stewart Gordon is probably
Australia’s most quietly-spoken knight.
Perhaps the widespread interests of Birt
and Co., the shipping and station-owning
people, call for an economy of words.
Born at Ardrossan (S.A.) in 1882, Gordon
joined Birt’s in 1903, and had a long
association with Owen Cox. He became
managing-director and chairman in 1929,
and holds a string of directorates, public
and charitable offices; he is also an
apostle of international friendliness in
trade and other matters, with which he
is well acquainted. In his own business
he claims that his staff works with him,
not for him.
Louis Esson, Melbourne dramatist,
poet and story-writer, at present in Syd-
ney, was born in Edinburgh in 1879 of
parents who had been living in Australia
for many years. He was taken as a child
to Victoria and educated at Carlton
Grammar School and Melbourne Uni-
versity. As a young man he travelled
widely in England and Europe, and was
a friend of Masefield, Synge and Yeats.
LOUIS ESSON.
Yeats advised him to return to Australia,
saying that writers should “keep within
their borders.” The “Lone Hand,” which
printed many of his stories and verse,
sent him to India and Japan on a roving
commission. He was one of the founders
of the Pioneer Players in Melbourne, and
has published two books of verse. Bulle-
tin readers can recall his bush ballads,
larrikin verse and serious pieces printed
in these pages. The Sydney Drama
Society is likely to produce one of his
plays while he is in Sydney.
Lee Martin, M.L.’s Minister of Agri-
culture, should know the finer points
of a Jersey as well as of the Labor move-
W. LEE MARTIN.
ment, for he farms in the Waikato, where
even the river glides like cream under the
willows. He was born at Oamaru 68
years ago, and like a lot of his colleagues
first found an outlet for his humanitarian
principles in religious work. Secretary-
ship of a trade union at Wanganui in
1909 was a milestone on the trail that
led north to farming and the Farmers’
Union, and then southward again to a
Cabinet seat and the ragwort problem.
The Surf Lifesaving Association of
Australia confers its highest honor on Joe
Doniger and (posthumously) Jack Brink
ley for their heroism at Kirra Beach (Q.)
on October 27 last year. Norman Girvan,
a club-mate, was seized by a shark in
the surf, and Brinkley went out to his
aid. The shark attacked him too, maul-
ing him so badly that he afterwards died.
Joe Doniger swam out and literally tore
Brinkley from the monster’s jaws. .A
short while ago Doniger risked his life
again in swimming out to bring ashore
a fisherman who had been capsized in
a boat on the Tweed River bar.
From “Warrigal”:
William J. Lee, the first Chinese to be ad-
mitted to the N.S.W. Bar, is Sydney-born, and
has had a classical education in China and an
economic and legal training at Sydney Uni-
versity. He speaks Cantonese, and this will
be an advantage to the Chinese colony, which
has struck linguistic difficulties in legal matters.
Lee has not wasted his 26 years. His brother
Arthur was, in my time, a likeable Arts under-
grad., with a bent for classics. He practised
at the English Bar, and was then appointed to
the Chair of English at Amoy. Here’s hoping
the Japanese treated him gently—otherwise the
world will be the poorer for a fine chess-player.
Obit in Brisbane at 81, Allan A.
Spowers, Surveyor-General of Queens-
land from 1902 to 1928. Melbourne-born,
he was the second son of James Spowers,
general manager of the “Argus.” After
Melbourne Grammar he jackerooed on
Wooyeo station, in the Lachlan country,
before learning his profession in Mel-
bourne. Contract-surveying in central
Queensland led to a job in the survey
branch of the Lands Department. For
many years he was a member of the
Queensland board of examiners for sur-
veyors, and, later, chairman of the asso-
ciated surveyors’ boards of Australia. His
widow is a daughter of the late W. M.
Davidson, former Surveyor-General of
Queensland. A son is superintendent
of surveys in the F.M.S.
Australia’s first officially-recognised
policeman on skis is Constable Leo
Plier, of Harrietville (Vic.), whose,
district includes the Bogong and Dargo
high plains, Mt. St. ' Bernard, Mt.
Feathertop and other chilly eleva-
tions. Most of it is under deep
snow for the greater part of the
winter. Before skis came in,
snowshoes were used for winter
travel. A Bogong-bred young-
ster of half a century ago went
to Canada and joined the
Mounties. His snowshoeing
feats became a tradition of that
extremely efficient force.
Two Adelaide schoolmasters
are chalking up successes. Leslie
Casson went to Oxford in ’32,
already an Adelaide graduate
and experienced teacher. He
has lately held an appointment
at Dalhousie University, Canada, and
now moves to Singapore as Prof, of
English. He started his training at
Roseworthy, which is S.A.’s Agricultural
College. Anthony Wood, who is skilled
amateur-dramatic coach as well as school-
master, moves from St. Peter’s, Adelaide,
to be head of Tudor House at Bowral
(N.S.W.).
A. D. Reid is a Young (N.S.W.) farmer
who got his first experience of politics
long before he had a vote —he was secre-
tary of the Murrumburrah Liberal Assoc,
at 16. In 1914, a lean, active bushman
and a splendid horseman, he sailed as
second lieut. with the Ist Light Horse, was
knocked out at Lone Pine and invalided
home, but returned to fight with the 4th
MAJOR A. D. REID.
Light Horse. He finished the war a
major with an M.C. He became C.P.
member for Young in the N.S.W. As-
sembly in 1927, and has acted as C.P.
Whip for the past few years. He was the
obvious choice for the Agricultural
Ministry when Hugh Main resigned the
job.
Rear-Admiral Custance, of the Can-
berra, has had 39 years in the King s
Navee, joining as a cadet in 1899. Be-
fore the war ended he was a commander.
For two years at Devonport he trained
expert gunners, and then was appointed
THE ADMIRAL.
to the command of the Rodney. At the
coronation of George VI. he saw to it
that the naval brigade nothing common
did or mean. He has been commanding
H.M.’s Australian squadron since Dec.,
1937.
As A. A. Wolff, K.C., goes to the
judiciary E. A. Dunphy takes office as
new W.A. Crown Solicitor and assistant
Parliamentary draftsman. Dunphy, who
is 31, was educated at Christian Brothers,
Perth, admitted to the Bar in 1932 and
given a partnership in the firm of
Dunphy, Dwyer and Durack, of which
Dunphy senior is still a partner.
The busy life of C. E. Masterman has
ended in Adelaide, at 80. He was at
Charterhouse with Baden-Powell, then a
consulting engineer in London,
and had built waterworks in
Brazil before settling in Hobart
about 1912. Later he took up an
orchard at Austin’s Ferry (Tas.).
He leaves a large and scattered
family—the secretary to the Law
Society of S.A., an engineer in
London, a master at Geelong
Grammar.
A quiet, soft-spoken, urbane man,
Gregan McMahon, mentioned for a
C.B.E. in the Birthday honors, is the
antithesis of the screen idea of a pro-
ducer ; but he gets what he believes in.
Bernard Shaw, himself a stickler for per-
fection in dramatic production, gave him
and still gives him the first bite at his
annual output in Australia; and Mc-
Mahon deserves it. Though he is Sydney-
born and founded the Harbor City’s
repertory movement, he is better known
nowadays in Melbourne, where he per-
formed the same service by starting off
the Repertory Society. That was in 1911,
and he has since produced, under one
organisation or another, a hundred or so
plays, and performed leading roles in
most of them.
“X.T.”: A belated and unusual honor was
the medal of the British Empire Order awarded
to Arthur Driver, of the Post Office service.
Driver, a telegraph linesman, was in Innisfail
(Q.) when the cyclone struck N. Queensland
in 1929. The countryside was flooded feet
deep, and telegraph poles were thrown about
like matches, completely demoralising the ser-
vice. Driver took a police launch, crossed the
Tully bar, slept a night on a sawmill roof
with rain falling round him at the rate of 2in.
an hour, and finally restored communication
between various anxious towns and cities after
lengthy navigation over flooded fields and days
of work and danger. In other cyclones and
floods he risked his life to keep the lines open.
He is now an inspector in Brisbane.


A
I*
ENGINEERING
IMP
\_L j /l\X
> ! y
/
■»i * i
in
YOU
can quickly qualify by practical
correspondence training in your
spare hours for a well-paid
position in Diesel engineering—the coming
profession for trained engineers with specialised
technical knowledge. Never were opportuni-
ties so great as in this relatively new and
uncrowded field of engineering.
BIG DEMAND
For Trained Men
More and more, the advantages of Diesel
power are being realised in all departments
of industry. Power users are changing rapidly
to this cheaper and more efficient form of
power. The demand for the skilled, trained
man has never been so great.
The College can teach anyone about Diesels,
even those who know nothing about internal-
combustion engines.
EXTRA Earnings
Here is your chance to capitalise on these
opportunities. NOW is the time to get into
Diesel engineering and qualify for the big, well-
paid positions that await the expert Diesel
engineer.
Expert Instruction
The scientific instruction offered by the Diesel
Engineering College, which specialises exclu-
sively in Diesel training, is your guarantee of
success in this fascinating profession.
If you are really ambitious—if you want to
earn more—if you want to get ahead of the
next man—to stand out by virtue of your
knowledge—send in your enquiry to-day
regarding* the Diesel Engineering College
courses.
It doesn’t matter how far away you live, you
can qualify just as easily as the man in the
city through these well-planned, comprehensive
courses.
Over 1000 Students
Throughout Australasia
The Diesel Engineering College has over 1 000
students in all parts of Australia, New Zealand,
Federated and Mandated Territories, New
Guinea and the Pacific Islands. This vividly
illustrates the fact that our course of training
is well and favorably known and our practical
service to all of our students has shown success-
ful results.
Primary Course
The Diesel Engineering College engineers,
after years of research, have prepared a com-
prehensive course for the beginner in the con-
struction, operation and maintenance of Diesel
jV
TPggp
rWtL INJECTION NOZZLE
Section through 2-stroke Com-
pression-Ignition Engine.
Above is one of many Diagrams used in the
Course of training, and very fully described
in the Paper dealing with this matter. Every
subject is fully explained and illustrated with
diagrams similar to the above.
engines. Ine lessons are set out m tne simplest
manner, with countless illustrations, diagrams,
etc., and are checked by competent examiners
who help the student. This course covers two
main sections of Diesel engineering, either or
both of which may be selected: TRACTION
DIESEL (tractors, lorries, motor-buses, etc.);
STATIONARY DIESEL (power plants for
factories, farming, electricity, etc.).
Advanced Course
(Including High-speed Diesels)
For mechanics, engineers, and those who
already have a preliminary knowledge of this
interesting and coming motive power.
This Advanced Course is covered by 12
lessons, and is plainly written, with all neces-
sary charts and diagrams, enabling the student
to make a comprehensive study of this im-
portant subject. All phases of research and
latest developments are covered from operation
to installation.
The many intricate Diesel problems which
occur and will continue to crop up are
thoroughly and comprehensively dealt with in
this Advanced Course, and the students’
answers to the questions in the Lessons are
carefully checked and commented upon by
engineering experts.
Diploma Given
The student of either course should, upon its
successful completion, be possessed of all the
necessary technical knowledge required of a
competent DIESEL engineer, and, in recogni-
tion of the fact, is awarded the Diploma of
the College.
FREE BOOK
A free book has been prepared to give you
complete details of either course in which you
may be interested (whether Primary or
Advanced). ( Send for it to-day.
Specially prepared by the Principal ot the
College, Mr. W. Kingsford Smith, it tells you
simply and clearly of the opportunities in
Diesel engineering and gives full details of
the Diesel Engineering College courses, terms,
etc. The fees are low, and may be paid either
in cash or by easy instalments.
Remember, on sea, land, road, in factories and
in the air, the cry is for Diesel power and for
Diesel-trained engineers.
Find Out NOW
what opportunities Diesel engineering offers
YOU. Learn how you can, in your own time
and as you wish, study under the guidance of
qualified experts. And remember it’s the
TRAINED man that gets the highly-paid job.
It Costs Nothing
for you to send in your enquiry—and there is
no obligation. But it may be the turning point
in your life—may show you the way to a
successful lifetime career. So write now-
to-day.
NOTE. —The College has just moved to much
larger and more commodious premises at the
address shown below.
Offices at SYDNEY Newcastle
MELBOURNE.
Remember! There is no obligation if you
write for the Free Booklet.
Be sure and advise, when you write, whether
you require particulars of the Primary or the
Advanced Course.
FREE
BOOK
gives you full information
regarding the courses of
this, the largest Diesel
Engineering College in
Australasia.
Post this enquiry NOW.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE.
The Principal,
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 A George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Without obligation to me, please forward full information regarding your
course (state if Primary or Advanced Course
is required).
l ' " ■- <
NAME
ADDRESS
S, !5 / 6/ 5 38.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: When Lou the JLumper
blew into Pinaroo (S.A.) one blazing
summer night and found Quicksilver
Charlie beating the drum in the local
Salvarmy ring he was speechless until
we got him to the pub. “Him ! ” he
snorted, after he was irrigated. “Why,
that blanker drunk us blind at Kilfera
last year; he fought Paddy the Yank
at Euston and won a quid in a swearin’-
match with Lurid Larrigan when we was
wheat-lumpin’ at Dimboola. Him !”
Later he met Quicksilver. “I’ve re-
formed,” said Q. “That old life ain’t
no good. Y’ orter turn it up, Lou.”
Lou was profanely scornful. With all
the zeal of the repentant-turned-mis-
sioner, Quicksilver tried to turn his old
mate from his wicked ways. “Why,
Lou,” he finished up, “y’ got no idea
what it’s like up there. Down here,
if y’ workin’, y’ get paid once a week.
Up there it’s payday every day.” He
paused, seeing visions, then turned a
beaming face on the sinner. “ ’Struth,
Lou,” he cried, “we could paint the
flamin’ place red !”
❖ -'!< # ❖
“B.B.”: One of the least-known dots
in the Pacific is the island of Rotumah,
yet it has a deal in common with M.L.
The 2000-odd inhabitants are of the
Maori family, although they are not so
vigorous as those in the Dominion.
Oddly enough, the Rotumah people have
no traditions (or I could learn of none)
of the great Hawaiiki migration in the
fourteenth century, although other tradi-
tions and customs are kin to those of
friend Henare. There is a striking differ-
ence, however, in*marriage and divorce.
In Rotumah, a newly-married couple
remain together for only a few days,
when the girl has the permission of her
husband to go away for two or three
months. After that she returns for some
days, only to beat it again. This mating,
separating and remating goes on until
the pair settle down or the lady divorces
herself for good—or bad —just as the
females of the Hollywood tribe do when
they, or the publicity director, feel that
way.
* * * *
“James W.”: For sheer impudence
and tenacity I’ll hand it to the seagull.
At Port Newry, Q., when one was
attacked by a large sea-eagle it dropped
its prey, a small whiting. The fish fell
on the deck of a launch, and the eagle
jibbed at the task of retrieving it, but
while he zoomed upward, abandoning
the chase, the gull dropped like a stone,
grabbed the fish and circled close to
the masts till it had gulped the catch
down.
if- * *
“F.Y.7”: London “Times” makes quite
a to-do about the enterprise of certain
Canadian farmers who are utilising their
wire fences to carry telephone messages
and radio programmes. Forty years ago
the fence-wires were being used on some
of the stations in s.-w. Queensland as
telephone wires. They needed little adjust-
ment save for by-passes—if that is the
technical term —round straining posts,
and results were quite satisfactory. There
was no radio then, so the Canucks have
the better of us there.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: The sea is always waiting
to trap the unwary. Running into the
Graveyard, King Sound, nor’-west W.A.,
we anchored close inshore in about 10ft.
of water. Morning found us high and
dry, and we looked round for the lugger
that had followed us in, but had anchored
a little further out. It, too, was high and
dry, but just balanced on the brink of a
tidal cliff that dropped sheer to low water
20ft. below. A little more weight at the
stern and it would have gone over; a
“It’s your move , Two Hundred and Thirty-seven.”
yard or two more anchor chain and it
would have dropped with the falling tide,
to be caught in the whirlpool and
smashed to splinters. Right along the
Graveyard and far out into deep
water these hidden precipices range. A
lugger caught close in on the wrong side
of the tidal ones is doomed, unless
equipped with auxiliary power ; no craft
trusting to sail alone P eat ? ut
against the fierce rush 01 the incoming
tide. The deep-sea precipices have
brought many a diver his death. Search-
ing for shell in cloudy water it is easy
In ster> over a weed-hidden brink and
to straiaht down “o be crushed inside
fhe drefs bv X sudden increase of
pressure, or at best to be as almost
hopelessly gripped by paralysis. Ashore
ona near-by island is the real graveyard
—a row of graves, many of them marked
by headstones which in Oriental script
pay tribute to the sons of Nippon who
lie beneath.
*’* * *
western” • Nutgrass? Striking the
name in the M.O.L. (B. 5/5/’3B) makes
me wonder what it can be. Here in W.A.
we have a sort of bulb-grass (we call it
Guilford grass)—a single round wiry
blade springing from a small nutty-
flavored bulb. Usually regarded as a
curse and almost impossible to eradicate,
it has its uses. When just sprouting it
is tender and succulent, but that condition
soon passes and it becomes as tough as
wire. This makes it ideal for sports
grounds, which soon wear ordinary
grasses to the roots. It’s a good standby,
too, in times of drought; have seen whole
paddocks, withered right off, being dug
over by sheep for the sake of the buried
bulbs, the jumbucks working on a face
and using their front hoofs. Not a bulb
did the woollies miss; and they must
have been nutritious, for the animals
kept good condition, while others in the
district not so fortunate died in scores.
* * * ❖
“Mine-Tinkit”: The Australian ballad
as a natural product of the outback (B.
1/6/’3B) isn’t dead yet. I found the
effusion of a wandering bard recently
scrawled on the wall of an insulated
butter-wagon on the Cairns (Q.) railway.
It is signed “Skinner,” and also “Inter-
State Hobo” and “R.A.0.H.” Touches
of satire raise it above the usual level of
such efforts. It tells the sad story of a
bagman whose lifeless body was found
beside a lonely railway track:
His battered billy in his hand,
His swag torn off his back,
His nosebag found just round the bend.
Around the campfire his mates debate
whether he is on the dole in heaven or
whether St. Peter has told him:
Heaven’s running at a loss,
I’m only working here,
You’d better see the Boss.
Having chewed it over for 56 lines, they
come to the happy conclusion:
The hobo’s found a berth at last,
He’ll see you all in hell!
* * * *
“Gert Goomburra”: Binghi’s missus
is well abreast of the times when it
comes to acquiring the latest in physical
infirmities. A dusky matron arrived to
officiate in the laundry of a Qld. bush
homestead where I stayed recently.
Unaccountable delay in the execution of
the duties led the mistress to investigate.
Jinny was seated beside the washtub, pipe
in mouth, leisurely poking at the clothes
in the suds. Inquiry as to the cause
of the unworkmanlike posture brought
forth the remark, “Me bin sit down—
foot plenty sore bin catchum fallen
arch.” When leaving at night she asked
for a couple of aspros for it.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: There isn’t a single speci-
men of the near-extinct Tasmanian tiger
in any zoo. Efforts to preserve the
animal by proclamation of a sanctuary
are now being considered. It may be
argued that there is 4,000,000 acres of
unoccupied land for them to roam over:
there is—but most of it won’t run a
bandicoot. The tiger seems doomed to
disappear from the Speck as it did from
the mainland centuries ago. The smaller
Tasmanian devil is not so scarce.
* * * *
“Karaway”: The bush curlew takes
readily to human company, and abides
contentedly in large gardens where there
are shrubs and trees. An old Queens-
lander now living in a Sydney suburb
has one that is 30 years old. It is always
free, but never goes away, though the
owner has several times changed his place
of abode. In the spacious squattage
gardens of n.-e. N.S.W. this handsome
insect-eater is a common pet, wandering
at night about the home paddocks, and
perhaps joining its wild fellows in a
corroboree, but always in the garden dur-
ing the day, apparently regarding the
place of its chickenhood as a home. A
pair at Wooroowoolgen, Richmond River
(N.S.W.), nested and reared two young
ones in the garden.
* * * *
“Turon River”: If the rabbits’ num-
bers are decreasing with the same sure-
ness and rapidity in other districts as
here (Sofala, N.S.W.), there will be little
need for the much-talked-of destructive
virus. Bunny received his first serious
check when the effective thistle root-
vanilla poison combination was stacked
up against him ; thousands were poisoned
in the summer months (when the rabbit
goes for the thistle root) by this method,
where previously only hundreds were
accounted for. With the decrease of
rabbits came the increase in skin prices,
with the trapper hopping in for his cut
and making a full-time job of trapping.
* * * *
“Quercus”: Paste this in your recipe
books as a fair substitute for grilled
chicken and call it Goanna a la Mooney,
after Walter Mooney, retired chef. Take
one young goanna, say 3ft. long. Slit
the back of its neck and hang up to
bleed till cold. Gut and remove fat
layers. Soak for three hours in strong salt
water, then steam for hours. Mix
seasoning of one onion, one spoonful of
herbs, breadcrumbs, two eggs and the
fat of a bacon-rasher. Stuff this into
the reptile, sew up and bake for three-
quarters of an hour in a slow oven.
I am heading west to try it out —anybody
coming?
* * * *
“Wang”: The elderly swagman had
approached Bully Hawkins for a job.
“No chance,” replied Bully, eyeing him
off keenly. “Yer wouldn’t last five
minutes with th’ blokes up here. We
breed ’em tough in these parts ; blokes
what last long an’ well. Meself, I’m
seventy an’ do me twelve hours a day
with th’ best of ’em. Me father, he’s over
ninety. Gettin’ a bit slow, p’raps, but
keeps his end up. An’ me old gran’father
wus a hundred when he got skittled be
a tree he wus fellin’.” “What! Old Harry
dead, eh?” said the swaggie. “Pore ole
chap!” “Yes,” said Bully; “yer know
him, did yer?” “Know him!” echoed
the swagman as he slung his knot up.
“Why, I useter nurse him when he wus
a baby!”
* * * *
“Turon River”: On a 30-mile run to
Bathurst (N.S.W.) recently, I saw pad-
docks bare as concrete tennis courts,
creeks denuded of rushes and reeds,
willow leaves eaten and branches stripped
of bark, white boxes stripped—and, yes,
a huge fallen yellow-box picked as clean
as a taxpayer. Graziers thereabouts
reckon it must have been a record dry
time, as none can recall sheep ever
having tackled the tree before. Strange,
too, because in a pinch Bunny will go
it, together with oak and kurrajong, in
preference to anything else in the tree
line. I and other trappers have lopped
these three trees, set traps at the bushes,
and paired ’em in two runs.
THE REPTILIAN PHAR LAP.
“Some Aboliar, I see,” said Jake, as dext’rously
a spud he peeled,
“Reckons ’e couldn’t catch a snake ’e chased
across a ploughed-up field.
A lot o’ coves’ll give a sneer at that, an’ say
’e must be slow,
Or p’raps that ’e was on the beer an’ couldn’t
see the way to go.
“Well, I believe ’is claim, for one. A Joe, flat
out, goes like a streak;
Faster than any bloke can run. When I was
up at Gooley Creek
Snake racin’ was the usual thing, an’—starve
the dingoes!—could they fly?
They’d glide, an’ sometimes even spring, so
quick they’d beat the naked eye.
“We useter train ’em, too —my oath! Tigers
an’ blacks an’ browns was best,
Espesh’ly colts of medium growth. I’d line
my wrigglers up abreast.
An’ when they’d ’ear me imitate a kooka’s
laugh they’d make a rush
An’ put up times, I tell yer straight, that
would’ve made a grey’ound blush.
“We couldn’t race ’em on the grass—we tried
it once, but —strike a light!—
It cost us quite a bit o’ brass; the friction
made the stuff ignite.
Claypans we used: we starts ’em off by riggin’
up electric frogs
Which tore along a narrer trough until they
reached some ’oiler logs.
“One meetin’ there I showed ’em speed, an’
cleaned up, too, you bet yer socks;
’Twas somethin* unexpected keyed me entry
up an’ give ’em shocks.
I’d currycombed an’ groomed my bloke, a
seven-foot red-bellied black,
An’ when the startin’ tape was broke ’e slithers
madly down the track.
“Two di’monds an’ me own ’as got a flyin’
start; they’re yards in front;
The rest gets tied up in a knot, so mixed they’re
never in the hunt.
They’re ’alf-way ’ome or thereabout, their
’eads up, goin’ for their lives,
When suddenly a din breaks out an’ down some
kookaburras dives.
“Their laughin’ makes the ir’nbarks shake;
there’s dozens of ’em in the kill.
They gets ’em all bar my Joe Blake; ’e leaves
the others standin’ still.
That’s where ’is trainin’ with my shrieks come
in; ’is blindin’ speed an’ twist
’Ad left a trail o’ buried beaks where all them
Jackos dived an’ missed!”
N.SiW.
S. W. K.


“V.E.A.C.”: I knew a little community
that settled in a blacksoil valley in
western N.S.W. and founded a prosper-
ous small onion-growing district. That
was 20 years ago. To-day only a few
rotting houses indicate that there was
ever a habitation in the desert. What
happened? The onion-soaked atmo-
sphere had the people continuously in
tears, and it was only a matter of a few
years before the consequent infiltration
of salt ruined the soil. Trees and herbage
died ; with the passing of the trees the
rainfall fell away to next to nothing ; the
winds churned the dry salty soil into
barren dust, and that blew about until
everyone got discouraged and left. May-
be that’s what happened in Centralia back
in the ages.
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: “Sheep are generally
good on a night-camp,” said Dan the
Drover, “but they rush sometimes, and
I’ve seen ’em flatten out a wire fence
more than once. They’re harder to keep
track of than cattle on a middlin’-dark
night, and in grey tussocky grass you
can only follow the noise and the dust.
One windy night a mob of wethers set
me a go on a wide plain, and after a
while, when I thought I was in front,
I galloped to and fro a dozen times,
shoutin’ an’ yellin’ at ’em. But not a
bit o’ notice they took of me or the
horse, till, by-’n-bye, they all stopped
in a long heap, pilin’ up on top o’ one
“ That's wot comes of yer fancy castin'! ”
another. ‘Cripes,’ I says, ‘half of them
will be smothered,’ and I jumped off to
pull ’em apart, an’ dash me if I adn’t
been chasin’ a bunch 'o’ them rojly-
polies. I was that wild about losin’ the
sheep, an’ working’ so hard with them
fool things, that I put a match in the
heap. Next mornin’ I ’ad to do a quick
scoot found I’d burnt down 30 panels
of Woolbales’s fence that they’d piled up
against.”
* * * *
Retired Rouseabout”: These people
who confess to using various makes of
tin-can rattles to liven up sheep in the
yards (B. 1/6/’3B) are hopelessly behind
the times. A relative who owns a run
in southern Queensland tells me that for
years he and his hands have been using
cast-off motor horns for the purpose, and
have found them far superior to any
rattle.
“Rom Ney”: Before Bulletin readers
outback start selling their sheep-dogs
and using tins and pebbles, as prescribed
by “Ornithos” and “Nagheer,” to shift the
jumbucks, let them remember that animals,
hearing a strange sound for the first time
will generally run from it, but repeated
hearting of the
sound soon brings
about that familiar-
ity which breeds
contempt. Twenty
years ago in s.-w.
Riverina (N.S.W.)
I saw the “tin
tykes” used, but
their success was-
short - lived. The
sheep soon got used
to a man rattling a
tin, especially if
the day was hot
and dusty and they
were tired. There
is an art in drov-
ing or drafting
sheep, and he who
learns it needs no
other aid than a
good dog.
* *
“Lespy”: In out-
re gul a r fishing
parties Bill, up in
the nose, always
got the biggest fish.
Every time he
landed one he
would hook it on
his spring scales,
show us the weight and pop it into his
basket. When Bill’s wife presented him
with a son we went round to congratulate
him. After a couple Jerry asked the
weight of the boy, so Bill put the
youngster in a towel and hooked the
corners on his fishing scales. The pointer
stopped at 391 b.
* * * *
“Turoar”: “Tarry Tom useter ’ave a
cat what was just erbout ’umin,” Old Bob
said. “Me an’ Tarry was doin’ a bit uv
fancy bird-breedin’, an’ we ’ad ol’ Blackie
ter keep the mice an’ spriggers erway
frum the cages. Very knowin’ ’e was,
too, an’ never touched the stock, know-
in’ they was worth money. One day
Paddy Riley frum nex’ door bowls in
in a devil uv a temper. Reckins we just
bin ercross ter ’is place an’ ’arf-inched a
couple uv ’is champeen orange b.udgree-
gars. Worth twenty notes each, Paddy
says, an’ ’e’s puttin’ it in the ’an’s uv the
Johns. Tarry says ’e’s mad ; we only
went ercross ter git the kids’ cricket ball
what they’d swiped up on ter Paddy’s
av’ry. An’ ’e proves it by gittin’ the ball
ter show ’im. But Paddy’s so wild ’e’s
gotter search the joint, an’ ’e makes
straight fer the loft where Tarry put the
flamin’ birds. Cripes, an’ we thought ’e
wasn’t ’ome when we goes over! But
Paddy can’t find them budgrees, though
’e crawls inter ev’ry cage we got. In the
end ’e gives it up an’ goes orf, swearin’
’e’ll git even yit. Me an’ Tarry, we can’t
make it out a-tall till we takes er look
at Blackie. What d’yer think that there
clever annermal’s gorn an’ done? As
soon as ’e spots Paddy cornin’ ’e ’ops in
an’ derstroys the everdince. Yair —et ’em
both.” «
“I say this Pompeyeye's jerry-built, MaWther !”
Henry G. Lamond: “Tally” refers to
big sheep counts (B. 26/5/’3B). Provided
the grass is green, forming a restful back-
ground for the eyes, no trained counter
should have to block his run to ease the
strain. On a glazed claypan with the
heatwaves shimmering, the fellow who
has done big counts couldn’t get through
a paltry 5000, no matter how many rests
he took. As a youngster on Maneroo
(C.Q.) I counted 20,000 through the
Triangle Gates near the old Maneroo
pubs. All these counts were done with-
out a check, and there wasn’t a friendly
glass before or after. On Warbreccan
(W.Q.) I counted over 32,000 out of the
old Bronzewing brush yards. My biggest
tally was 47,500 out of Stud Ewe pad-
dock (same station). The expert, more-
over, can put through up to 50,000, and
when checked over on the board later
will be mortified if he’s more than a few
out.
* * * *
“Cooee-Bird”: Whilst I’ve often seen
small sapling pegs and posts which have
been cut and driven with bark on when
conditions have been very wet sprout
freely, I’ve never known a sprouting peg
or post to take root and grow. In all
cases the shoots have withered and died.
I doubt whether even the persistent bitter-
bark (quinine), which will sucker from the
tiniest rootlet left in the ground, would
take root and grow if erected as an un-
barked sapling post, however wet the
weather. The imported lantana will take
root and grow again if cut when condi-
tions are very wet and warm, but this
pest is a shrub and not a tree. Certain
indigenous vines, particularly those of the
grape family, will grow readily from
slips, but no indigenous hardwood or
softwood of my acquaintance possesses
this ability.
* * * *
“Splodger”: I’ve seen ducks, galahs,
corellas and many other kinds of birds
bogged; I’ve pulled out cattle, horses,
sheep, and once I scalped a dingo im-
mersed in mud ; but the worst of the lot
in the silt are kangaroos. When those
stilted jokers go through the crust they
bog to the hips. When they’re down to
the waist they’re there for keeps. If a
man gets them after they’ve been there
the best part of 24 hours he’s got a fairly
tame patient to deal with, but a just-
bogged ’roo is mad with fear, and will
bite, scratch and fight anything that goes
near him. The prudent Samaritan waits
until hours of helpless struggle has
brought docility to the marsupial before
doing his good work.
* afc * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: As “Tockilly” says
(B. 19/5/’3B) size isn’t everything in
manual work. There’s a knack in most
jobs, and the man who has it is better
than one who hasn’t. Still, a good big
’un should always beat a good little ’un,
and that five-foot runt who towels his
big cobbers has been overdone. It’s a
question of proper balance between mind
and body. A small sluggish brain won’t
drive a big body, and when a too-active
brain forces a small body the body’s
likely to give out and undernourish the
brain, so it comes to a dead end. Per-
fection is reached when the proportion
of mind to body is just right. Knew one
sawn-off who could work, but he came
from Queensland, and Queenslanders are
the toughest race of men on earth —they
must be to stand the climate. Besides,
his weight came to within a stone of the
heaviest man’s on the gang.
* * * *
“Dingo”: The expression of highest
luxury in the bush is the featherbed.
Whether the term came down intact
from the Middle Ages, when feather-
beds were, unaccountably enough, rarities
in the midst of abundant poultry, or
whether pioneers found them hard to
come by here in the days when men
were too busy to have fowls around, I
don’t know. In any case, they never
live up to their reputation. The most
engaging trick in the repertoire of a
featherbed is the way the feathers draw
away from the sleeper on either side
and dump him down on to the bare
mattress. The slippery surface of feathers
makes stabbing and studding futile to
hold a little softness where it is wanted ;
the quill end of the contents invariably
pokes through in a dozen places to
irritate the sleeper’s skin, as well as
eventually ‘working right through. Ex-
cluding kapok as too civilised, I have
slept far more comfortably on mattresses
stuffed with husks, rags, straw, hay, grass,
gum-leaves and old bits of rope than on
any featherbed. I’m not sure if feather-
beds are a cut above sleeping on the
ground, if it comes to that.
A SLIPPERY JOB.
“A witness in the Arbitration Court deposed that
he was the seventh shearers’ cook engaged upon a
N.S.W. station in eight days.”
To serve the kinds of victual
For which the shearers look
Might be a task to skittle
The ordinary cook.
You’d find it hard contacting,
I’ll venture, anywhere
A crowd that’s more exacting
About the bill o’ fare.
You couldn’t call them gluttons
Or gourmets for their food,
The chaps who struggling muttons
Of fleecy coats denude.
But he who fills their dishes
Must boil and roast and baste
To cater for their wishes
And satisfy their taste.
They’d set no earthly store by
The sort of stomach-freight
That old Lucullus swore by
And Joseph Sedley ate.
I doubt they’d care a stiver
Or scrap, the hungry host,
For fatted goose’s liver
Or caviare on toast.
But when it comes to showing
When tucker boards are set—
Precisely what they’re knowing
They want —and mean to get—
Club epicures who grumble
At chefs’ committees’ keep
Might fairly take a tumble
From blokes who barber sheep.
Three meals, they hold, are ample
For trying out a man,
Three little meals to sample
The merits of his scran;
And should his wares assay light,
He will, there’s cause to fear,
Between the dark and daylight
Be out upon his ear.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Are yon a
TRUSTEE?
if so, do you not find that, in this capacity, the
demands made upon your time are too great,
or the duties too exacting?
Are you aware that a Trustee is presumed to
know the law relating to Trusts, and may be
held responsible for mistakes made during
a dministr ation ?
Moreover, the intricacies of Estate administra-
tion often lead to the neglect of the Trustee’s
own affairs.
Should you wish to surrender a Trusteeship,
or act in an advisory capacity only, it would be
advisable to consult The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Limited, which is in its
60th year of experience in the problems
attendant upon the administration of Estates.
An appointment may be arranged at any time.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
£. AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria, June 14, 1878)
(Registered in New South Wales, 1907)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA, NOW IN ITS 60th YEAR
OF SERVICE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £955,806.
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE 9 1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
W. D. Stewart. R * T - H,lder *
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0.,
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
Established 1808.
Security to Policyholders exceeds
£19,000,000.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted,
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
{England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
E. Y. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
“You want a good yield
but—Y O U C A N’T
AFFORD TO RISK
YOUR CAPITAL.”
1
I always recommend clients with
large funds to spread them over as
wide a range of enterprises as pos-
sible. This is difficult for people like
you with only £22, or a few hun-
dred pounds at' the most. However,
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
will solve your problem as it has
done that of other small investors.
It gives you an interest in 20 lead-
ing Australian companies and your
funds are safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees,
Union Insurance Society of Canton,
Ltd.
Free Booklet No. 1 is yours on
request to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS
PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028V.V., G.P.O.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electric Light and Power (Sydney)
Writ- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. ten Ofl. serves.
1927 .. 90,515 10 p.c. = 61,375 27,700 31,316
1928 .. 102,446 10 „ „ 65,336 33,100 35,326
Pref. Ord.
7 p.c. 10 p.c.
1929 .. 107,862 88 72,494 33,500 37,106
1930 .. 121,585 4051 77,997 37,800 38,843
8 p.c.
1931 .. 120,112 6955 63,333 46,000 ) nr .
Provident fund, £lOOO .. j ’
All res. written off assets, £41,667.. •
10 p.c.
1932 .. 116,129 8593 79,167 28,369
8 p.c.
1933 .. 122,252 9991 63,333 47,150 )
Provident fund, £lOOO .. j 1,0
1934 . . 129,351 10,208 63,333 54,865 1 7 ,0
Provident fund, £lOOO ..
1935 .. 134,258 10,208 63,333 60,619 821
1936 .. 133,994 10,208 63,333 60,420 854
1937 . . 134,950 10,208 63,333 60,826 1,437
Insurance fund disclosed, £4OBO .. 5,517
1938 . . 139,958 10,208 63,333 66,642 5,292
Paid capital is £937,500 in pound shares
—166,667 7 p.c. cum. prefs. paid to 17s.
6d. each and 833,333 ords., of which one-
tenth is paid only to 10s. each —and
there is nothing at the moment to indi-
cate that the £62,500 at call will be
needed at an early date. Certainly ex-
panding industrial and building activity,
etc., can be expected to ensure steady
growth of the business, but the rate of
development is restricted to the co.’s
own area (its franchises cover five of the
older metropolitan suburbs), which is
hemmed in by the big Sydney electric-
supply undertaking. So' the investor who
is looking for early pickings by way of
new capital issues had better look the
other way.
Since there is nothing to worry about
in the finances, and since the co. enjoys
a monopoly of a public utility, it is the
rate of dividend and return generally ex-
pected from a sound privately-operated
public utility that determine the price
of the scrip. As for the div., the ords.
got a steady 10 p.c. for the decade to the
close of accounts in 1930. In the fol-
lowing year, when the consumption of
gas and electricity in Sydney reached its
lowest level, the rate was reduced to 8
p.c., and all visible reserves, including
provision for depreciation (£310,242 at
April 30, 1931), were used to write down
the book value of the undertaking. The
div. was lifted to 10 p.c. again in 1932,
but it dropped back to 8 p.c. in 1933,
owing to reductions in the price charged
to consumers, and has remained steady
since. Although the co. is not subject
to the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act, which aims at fixing divs. at 51
p.c. on pref. and 6 p.c. on ord. capital,
it might prove an indiscretion for a co.
enjoying a monopoly of a public utility to
pay more than 8 p.c. these days.
The market, which takes this view,
prices the fully-paid ords. at 345., at
which figure the return is 4.7 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. On the same basis the
contribs. at 18s. yield 4.4 p.c., or 5.7 p.c.
when fully paid. The 7 p.c. prefs (they
also enjoy priority as to capital) at 265.
return 4.8 p.c. Including uncalled capi-
tal, the net tangible cover is £6 os. 4d.
prefs. and 20s. Id. ords., practically all
represented by fixed assets.
During the last term, an extra 1177
consumers were connected to the co.’s
mains, making a total of 35,665, and
more current was used. Gross earnings
(£213,884) were up £12,746. Exes.
(£73,926) took £7738 of the increase,
and an extra £5816 was struck off for de-
preciation (£66,642), leaving the net
result down £BOB at £73,316, or £225 less
than the pref. div. and 8 p.c. to the ords.
called for. That leaves out of the
reckoning £4OBO dropped from some-
where into an insurance fund.
The position as balance-sheet figures
show it compares as follows:
1930. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Capital .. £875,000 £937,500 £937,500 £937,500
Sundry
creditors .. 126,096 106,772 122,287* 107,298*
Fixed assets 1,312,605 1,014,544 1,021,353 985,468
Stocks, etc... 21,072 21,501 17,553 42,523
Book debts.. 11,289 7,578 14,067 12,949
Cash, etc. . . 6,182 51,792 63,724 68,621
* Including’ provision for taxation.
Including the allowance for depreciation,
the year’s earnings enabled £14,989 to
be clipped off the amount coming to
sundry creditors, which includes an un-
specified allowance for taxation, and
£24,970 to be added to stocks, etc. On
fixed assets £35,885 more was written off
than was spent. When the books closed,
more or less liquids exceeded outside
liabilities by £16,795, an improvement of
£43,738 over the twelvemonth.
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd. (Fiji)
, Dividends .
Prefs. To Re— Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
1928.. 73,515 13,152 74 p.c.= 39.031 21,332 151,923
1929.. 77,090 13,152 8 „ „ 41,633 22,305 174,228
1930.. 73,276 13,152 8 „ „ 41,633 18,491 192,719
Assets written down, £15,000 .. 177,719
1931.. 54,272 13.152 6 p.c. = 31,224 9,896 187,615
Assets written down, £20,000 .. 167,615
Hurricane losses, £12,400 .. .. 155,215
1932.. 27,254 13,152 4 p.c. = 20,816 148,501
1933.. 38,193 13,152 4 „ „ 20,816 4,225 152.726
1934.. 34,272 13,152 4 „ „ 20,816 304 153,030
1935.. 48,474 13,152 5 „ „ 26,020 9.302 162,332
1936.. 56,686 13,152 5 „ „ 26,020 17,514 179,846
1937.. 73,835 13,152 5.8„ „ 29,923 30,759 210,605
1938.. 85,097 13,152 Si „ „ 44,235 27,710 238,315
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 233',315
Trade activity in Fiji depends largely
upon conditions in the copra, sugar,
mining, banana, pineapple and dairying
industries. Gold, discovered on the Tavua
field a few years ago, now occupies third
place in value in the list of the colony’s
exports, and, together with improvement
in conditions generally, has helped to
swell trade turnovers. Ever since the
short, sharp post-war slump, the policy
of those in control of this big merchant
and plantation-owner has been to keep
divs. moderate and build up strength,
visible and otherwise. So, although slump
sent the London price of copra tumbling
from £27 to £7 ss. a ton over the half-
dozen years to the close of accounts in
1934, divs. continued to flow, the lowest
being 4 p.c., and the average over the
last 16 years 5.5 p.c. Since 1922 £179,692
net has been visibly added to the lay-by,
raising it to £233,315 at the end of March.
That was after making liberal annual
allowances for depreciation, and taking
£166,800 from the visible pile to write
down the book value of assets and cover
hurricane losses of £12,400. Unless some-
thing very unexpected happens, it is a
policy (already tested by slump) which
should enhance the genuine investment
possibilities of the scrip, not for short-
term or speculative purposes but for
long-term holding.
The last term opened with the London
price of copra at £2O per top and closed
with the figure at £lO 17s. 6d. Still, the
colony’s export cheque for copra
(£407,354) was a trifle better than for 1936,
and so were receipts for sugar, gold,
bananas, etc. The co.’s gross earnings
(£208,666) sprang £15,167. Including
£28,791 (up £608) struck off for depreci-
tion, exes. (£126,567) took only £3452
of the increase. Including an unexplained
addition of £2998 to reserves, the net
result was £85,097 (up £14,712), the best
since 1921. After handing the prefs. their
6 p.c. (£13,152), enough remained to show
13.8 p.c. on the £520,407 of ord. capital,
compared with 11.6, 8.3, 6.7, 4, 4.8, 2.7,
7.9 and 11.5 p.c. back to 1930. The div.
was lifted from 5.8 p.c. to 6 p.c., and a
2\ p.c. bonus was added to celebrate the
70th anniversary of the foundation of
the business, making p.c. for the year.
Also, £5OOO was sent to the stall fund,
leaving £22,710 to put on the shelf.
Owing to the low price of copra, the
immediate outlook is not so bright as
it was 12 months ago; still, prospects
favor maintenance of very satisfactory
earnings. . ,
Taking exchange into the reckoning
(£lOO Fiji = £A111|), and allowing for
the final div. and bonus, the fully-paid
pound ords. at 28s. (295. 3d. a year ago)
return 4.9 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The
tightly-held prefs. seldom come on to the
market. The net tangible cover is £4
Bs. 9d. prefs. and 28s. lid. ords.
The already comfortable financial posi-
tion was further strengthened:
1933. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. .. £739,613 £739,613 £739,613
Deposits . . • • 12,420 10,611 oa’e^f;
Sundry creditors, etc... 18,228 25,24,8
Plantations . . • • 65,524 49,033 52,304
Land, buildings, plant, etc. 331,762 315,563 313,940
Stocks etc .. .. 212,276 338,934 321,427
Investments and cash.. 142,025 110,154 153,3.>9
Capital value of '
branches, etc. •• 65,706 7u,073 £0,788
Book debts, etc. . . 132,596 13j,506 15(7,02.
The year’s larger trading is reflected in
a growth of £20,473 in debtors’ balances,
etc. The drop of £17,507 in stocks, etc.,
was largely on account of the fall in the
price of copra; investments and cash
were up £43,185, and £5lOl was chipped
off the outside debt. Including stocks but
not capital value of branches, the more
or less liquid surplus (£600,161) was
£51,252 stronger than at the previous bal-
ance.
Fairy mead Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927 .. 61,698 10 p.c. = 26.500 35,198 149,795
1928 .. 39,225 8 „ „ 21,200 18,025 167,820
1929 .. 39,142 8 „ „ 21,200 17,942 185,762
1930 .. 45,445 8 „ „ 21,200 24,245 210,007
1931 .. 48,469 8 „ „ 21,200 27,269 237,276
1932 .. 30,344 8 „ ~ 21,200 9,144 246.420
1933 . . 45,807 10 „ ~ 26,500 19,307 265,727
1934 . . 35,921 10 „ „ 26,500 9,421 275,148
Drop in replacement reserve, £16,245.. 258,903
1935 .. 29,857 10 p.c. = 26,500 3,357 262,260
From inner reserves, £40,500 .. 302,760
Reserves capitalised, £132,500 .. 170,260
1936 .. 42,079 8 p.c. = 39,400 2,679 172,939
Added replacement reserve, £11,897.. 184,836
1937 .. 47,185 9 p.c. = 44,325 2,860 187,696
The dispute about the validity of the
co.’s purchase of Malayta’s assets in
1936 —it resulted in a cleavage on the
board —has been settled by the Court
ratifying the transaction. Malayta was
formed by the Young family (they also
used to own and are still largely interested
in Fairymead) about 27 years ago. Its
operations consist almost entirely of
copra-growing in the British Solomon
Islands, where it owns some 14,000 acres,
nearly all freehold, of which about 6000
acres are planted and said to be giving
satisfactory results. The board has kept
the curtain drawn over the pup’s balance-
sheet figures, though the trend of public
opinion and of legislation are all for
disclosure these days. Malayta had a
paid capital of £195,000, or thereabouts,
and the purchase price was £95,000, for


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors. .
F - N - YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. Y. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
NOBEDT
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEE
■
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTBAEASTAN AGENTS:
PERTH. W.A.: Elder. Sm*th & Company, Eimited.
AHELATHE. S.A.: Elder. Smith & Company, Eimited.
MEEBOURNE, VIC.: Dalsrety & Company, Eimited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.: Dalffety & Company. Eimited.
BRISBANE, QED.: Elder, Smith & Company. Eimited.
DARIA IN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
EAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty.. Eimited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis, Eimited.
AUCKEAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WEEEINGTON, N.Z,: Dalgrety & Company, Eimited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Eimited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalffety & Company, Eimited.
INVERCARGIEE, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Eimited.
SUVA and EAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Eimiied.
BY APPOINTMENT
\A v>c
Ca* * h <£
o|W
A®’
0» e
& ec«
e*
G ot
vV»c
\*o
,tt* c
6 \o c6
*7
69
m
Perfect
Pair
WHOLESOME
& DELICIOUS
MADE FROM
Oilih.
liuit
NO ESSENCE
USED
OF,
ft
■'Wtially ■
iORDON's
,maum
Jj’ANOlijftAy coroon » C’t’.!
ORDONS
lemon
GIN
Gordon's
ORANGE GIN • LEMON GIN
TANQUERAY.GORDON & CO., r-j, . ......... . # •
LTD. LONDON, ENGLAND. Jhe whgest gin mtilkhA in the woud
which Fairymead scrip was issued at par.
So Malayta would need to net only 4.3
p.c. on its capital to enable Fairymead to
pay 9 p.c. on the purchase price. There
was a substantial fall in the price of copra
last year; still, most growers were able
to earn profits. Last week-end Rabaul
copra fetched £lO 15s. a ton in London;
the highest price reached last year was
nearly double that figure.
Since Fairymead took over the sugar-
growing and -milling interests of A. H.
and E. Young in the Bundaberg (Q.)
district about 28 years ago it has been
mostly an 8 p.c. proposition, with wide
margins; and substantial additions have
been made to plant and paid for out
of earnings. Early in the 1936 term the
board considered the outlook good
enough to scatter £132,500 of bonus
scrip, one for two. Together with the
purchase of Malayta, this lifted paid
capital to £492,500, on which 8 p.c. ( =
12 p.c. after allowing for the bonus
issue) was paid for 1936.
The board also keeps the curtain drawn
over the co.’s throughput, etc. However,
last season’s crushings in the Bundaberg
district were about equal to the previous
one, and the No. 1 pool final price for
raws is expected to be £l7 3s. (up Is. Bd.)
per ton, and for No. 2 (excess) pool
£7 ss. (up 2s. 7d.) per ton. After setting
aside £13,294 (up £2392) for depreciation,
the net result was put at £47,185 (up
£5106), or 9.5 p.c. on capital as it now
stands. A point was added to the div.,
making it 9 p.c., the final being at the
rate of 8 p.c. p.a.
As for the current term, “the coming
crop looks promising,” and the Queens-
land Government has decided to buy
raws on the same basis as last season’s.
Unless the international position in the
world’s sugar markets improves, the
problem of overproduction in Australia
will have to be faced before long. This
might mean introduction of mill quotas.
Still, millers should be able to earn satis-
factory profits.
The market prices the co.’s pound
shares at 335. 10d., as against 375. lOd.
a year ago. At the lower figure the return
is 5.3 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. Each
variation of 1 p.c. in the div. would
affect the return by approximately 0.6
p.c. The backing is 275. 7d. in net
tangibles.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1930. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £265,000 £265,000 £492,500 £492,500
Liabilities* .. 28,640 59,034 48,035 57,579
Estates . . 226,908 224,014 303,895 318,279
Factories, etc. 162,111 180; 6681
Railways, etc. 54,993 55,832 [- 309,362 334,876
Plant, etc, . . 43,355 55,214 J
• Stocks, etc. .. 17,814 7,045 28,252 22,183
Book debts ..t 1 73,251 82,494 71.464
Cash, etc. .. J , 0 ) 16,769 29,786 11,585
* Including something for taxation.
Last year’s additions of £14,384 to the
book value of estates and £25,514 to
factories, plant, etc., look healthy so far
as production capacity and costs are con-
cerned. The shrinkage in the more or less
liquid surplus (£47,653) was £44,862.
Northcote Brick Co., Ltd. (Melb.)
it t> ai _. To Re- Re-
Mar., Piofit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 16,891 10 p.c. = 15,000 1891 42,529
Bonus from holdings, £5460 .. 47,989
1929.. 16,985 10 p.c. = 15,000 1985 49,974
1930.. 13,198 10 „ „ 15,000 48,172
Loss..
ioqI" o 8 i 8 „ 2 * ” » 3 > 750 42,564
1932.. 2,530 Nil 40,034
Profit.
1933.. 3,181 lfp.c. = 2,500 681 40,715
5 , »* » 7,500 1346 42,061
14,398 8? „ „ 13,125 1273 43.334
193 £.- 9 > 37 5 6i „ „ 9,375 43,334
1937.. 9,591 61 „ „ 9,375 216 43,550
1938.. 15,861 8J „ „ 13,125 2736 46,286
Earnings depend .mainly on the state of
the building trade and the price of bricks,
while chief factors governing costs are
award wages and delivery charges, which
are on a mileage basis. There are 14
brick cos., operating a total of 34 kilns,
in the Melbourne metropolitan area,
which means that competition is very
keen, and delivery charges, which are
part of the cost to the buyer, have be-
come an important factor affecting the
manufacturer’s sales. This co., whose
works are at Northcote, north of the
Yarra, gets its fair share of city business,
and it owns approximately one-third of
the capital in other brick cos. operating
at Blackburn, Auburn and Oakleigh as
well.
The following table, showing the value
of building permits issued in Greater
Melbourne, helps to illustrate what has
happened in the trade since the boom
burst nine years ago:
Year to Year to
Mar. 31, Value. Index. Mar. 31, Value. Index.
1929. . £8,196,377 100 1935. . £5.058,216 62
1932.. 1,429,431 17 1936.. 6,984,180 85
1933.. 2,427,223 30 1937.. 7,310,673 89
1934.. 3,896,064 48 1938.. 8,451,216 103
The sharp spring of £1,140,543 in last
year’s figure raised the index above the
1929 level; but steel-and-concrete struc-
tures now figure more prominently in the
list than they used to. Still, the grow-
ing demand for special bricks of various
shapes, colors and sizes has meant much
to the manufacturing cos. Most of the
standard bricks sold during the last term
fetched 655. a thousand as against 605.,
525. and 60s. for the three preceding
terms. The improvement in gross earn-
ings (£19,523) was £6532, of which exes.
(£3663) took £3ll, leaving a profit of
£15,861 (up £6270), equal to 10.5 p.c.
on capital as against 6.3, 9.5, 6.2, 5.8 and
2.1 p.c. back to 1933. That includes
£2OOO to be struck off for depreciation as
against £5OO in 1937. The div. was lifted
from 6} p.c. to 8f p.c. The average
distribution for the last seven years was
5.8 p.c., and for the 10 years to the close
of accounts in 1930 10.9 p.c.
Finances are comfortable enough:
1927. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 4,823 2,205 2,492 2,173
Freeholds . . 88,230 90,021 89,742 89 133
Plant, etc. .. 34,725 36,951 38,411 39',602
Stocks .. 2,447 1,888 2,672 2 876
Book debts .. 11,861 4,055 6,119 6,614
Shares other cos. 36,361 41,821 41,821 41 821
Cash, etc. . . 33,060 24,552 22,903 27’787
Including stocks but not shares in other
cos., the year’s improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£35,104) was £5902.
The market, doubtful how long the
boom in building will continue, notes the
competition in the trade and prices the
pound shares at 21s. as against 235. 9d. a
year ago. At the lower figure the return
is 8.3 p.c. on an 8f p.c. div. basis, or
5.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribution. The
backing is 265. 2d. in net tangibles, mostly
fixed assets, worth what they can earn.
Selfridges (Australasia), Ltd.
Net Towards
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £*£,£,
1935.. 352 Nil 362 6,688
Added intangibles, £3343 .. .. 10,031
1936.. 5,623 Nil 5623 4,408
Reserves.
Share reserve, £27,250 .. .. 22,842
Net addition intangibles, £6480 .. 16,362
1937.. 10,887 6 p.c. = 8904 1
Written off intangibles, £560 j 17,785
Share premiums, £23,750 .. .. 41,535
Net addition share reserve, £13,750.. 55,285
Added intangibles, £2544 .. .. 52,741
Loss.
1938.. 21,773 4 p.c. = 7455 23,513
This co., which opened its. first store
in Pitt-street, Sydney, opposite Coles, in
April, 1933, entered the field when com-
petition was already keen. By the close
of accounts jn 1937 it appeared to have
both feet on the ground (there were then
10 stores in the chain), and the first div.
(6 p.c.) was paid from declared profits
equal to 7.2 p.c. on average capital. Two
subsidiaries, one at Wellington (M.L.)
and the other at Perth (W.A.), com-
menced trading in September and
October last. The parent paid an in-
terim div. at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a. m
September; and then, to finance further
expansion of its own business and help
the pups along, 95,000 new £1 shares
were issued at a premium of ss. each.
The premiums (£23,750) were added to
reserves. Neither the earning power nor
the financial position of the co. justified
a premium being charged.
Shareholders and market were per-
plexed when a loss of £21,072 was re-
ported for the 12 months to the end of
January. A flood of circulars, follow-
ing a cleavage on the board, further com-
plicated the situation. At the annual meet-
ing last week, one shareholder said: “It
must be clear to all that our directors
are fighting like Kilkenny cats. The
only sensible thing to do is to have an
independent inquiry.” Being of the same
mind, the meeting promptly appointed
a committee of three (R. C. Hagon. J. A.
Carpenter and J W. Austin) to investi-
gate the co.’s affairs and report in about
a month’s time. There the matter stands
for the present.
The published accounts, in which turn-
over, gross earnings and exes, are not
disclosed, show that the loss was arrived
at after meeting non-recurring charges
of £9OOO, allowing £8034 (up £2387) for
depreciation and capitalising £2544 of
branch establishment exes., etc. At the
meeting the chairman said turnover in-
creased £168,000, reaching £612,000, and
(hat exes, rose only 1.7 p.c.—of what
was not made plain. Appearances are
that the loss was due mainly to unlucky
buying, and that divided control (there
were two managing directors) aggravated
the position. Stocks are reported to be
conservatively valued in the sheet; much
depends upon that.
Now consider these figures:
1935. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £56,067 £96,713 £178,340 £240,791
Sundry creditors 26,252 36,942 44,536 99,478
Leaseholds . . 8,969 24,690 44,681 56,966
Plant, etc. .. 21,441 32,733 56,232 74,425
Stock.. .. 38,789 66,645 104,227 123,778
Debtors, etc. 5,724 3,987 10,549 12,589
Cash .. .. 708 1,192 1,799 2,290
Shares subsidiaries 32,077 93,734
The £62,451 of fresh capital gathered, to-
gether with share premiums and an extra
£54,942 from outsiders, was used mainly
to add £30,478 to fixed assets, £19,198
to stocks, pay £47,907 on shares in sub-
sidiaries and cover the year’s loss and
dividend, etc. Including stocks but not
shares in the pups, the contraction in
the more or less liquid surplus (£39,179)
was £32.860. When the books closed
there was £44,209 of capital to come in,
and there was £42,716 still callable on
shares in subsidiaries. Obviously it would
have been better business to have asked
shareholders for more, and to have made
the issue at par.
In 4\ months’ trading the Westralian
offshoot claimed a profit of £1526, and
after 2\ months’ business the Maoriland
pup netted £598. Here are balance-sheet
o Continued on next page.)


ADAMS’ (TATTERS ALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1L72.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
JENOLAN CAVES
" Nature’s Masterpiece”
ACROSS THE BLUE MOUNTAINS.
m
sa., :*:*%;* Vfr*
HI
' ‘i
H
:
il
■mm \
■ ■■ ■>
wms
H&i
* ■:* ,
H * j
■
H—H
h±m
* *
5
H
H
; ■ ■
B
P
H
g
K
§8
|
m
Hi
IPllii
THE GRAND ARCH AND LAKE.
Nature's charms, the hills and woods,
The sweeping vales, the foaming floods,
Are free alike to all. — Burns.
BOOKLET, “ALL ABOUT JENOLAN CAVES,” POST FREE.
N.S.W. Government Tourist Bureau
CHALLIS HOUSE, 8 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Tel.: 8W4471 (4 lines).
Tenders.
VALUABLE MINING PLANT
FOR SALE.
In the Matter of Morobe Gold
Developments, Limited (in Liquidation).
TENDERS are invited for the purchase of the
following:
Lot 1: Hydraulic Sluicing Plant and Equip-
ment, comprising Bin. Gravel Pump, 2in.-
2}in. Sealing Water Pump, 7in.-6in. Nozzle
Pump, 6in. Sluicing Nozzle, 80-h.p. Motor
with auto, starter regulator, Motor,
60-h.p. Motor, Switchboard, Sluice Box, De-
livery Piping and sundry plant equipment and
tools.
Lot 2: The Company’s right, title and inter-
est in Dredging Lease 907, Burrangong Creek,
near Young.
The plant may be inspected and is offered
as and where it lies at Burrangong Creek, near
Young.
Tenders may be submitted for both Lots or
for each Lot separately.
The Plant is practically new and is in good
order and condition.
Terms and Conditions of Sale and Form of
•Tender and full inventory of plant, also par-
ticulars of boring operations, etc., are available
at the office of the undersigned.
A deposit of 10 p.c. must accompany each
tender. The highest tender will not necessarily
be accepted, and the acceptance of any tender
will be subject to the concurrence of the
Colonial Treasurer.
Tenders close at noon on the 7th July, 1938.
MELVILLE W. JOHNS,
Lynch Street, Young, Liquidator.
15th June, 1938.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* Hs %
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
4 s 4s 4s
ALUMINOFERRIC is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tanks,
etc. For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Public Notice.
OPALINE SILICA.
OFFERS wanted for a large deposit, situated
within 20 miles from deep seaport in South
Australia. Analysis, Silica 88 p.c., Alumina and
Iron 6 p.c., Water 6 p.c. Apply Miller, 67
Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Dibectoks —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., G.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.')
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwr.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., aI.L.C. (Vice-Chairman).
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colm A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.) __
figures for each co. at the end of
January:—
Capital— W.A. Co. N.Z. Co.
Issued £125,000 £189,626
Paid up 72,142 116,035
Liabilities .. .. .. 33,769 45,095
Leaseholds, etc 29,829 39,411
Plant, etc 17,963 18,101
Stocks 20,685 38,161
Shares other cos. . . . . 6,437
Debtors, cash, etc 970 12,302
Intangibles . . . . . . 31,553 53,752
The parent holds 62,600 shares, includ-
ing 15,000 for goodwill, etc., in the W.A.
co. and 73,850, including 26,000 for
goodwill, etc., in the M.L. one. The
amount of capital unrepresented by tan-
gibles in the two cos. was 25 p.c. and 28
p.c. respectively. Though the two have
made an encouraging start, it is difficult
to say when they are likely to contribute
much to the pool.
Given good buying and a team that
will pull together and keep a tight hold
upon outgoings, the parent’s prospects of
earning satisfactory dividends are encour-
aging, notwithstanding the amount of
capital invested in new subsidiaries. The
fully-paid pound shares, which fetched
345. cum rights nine months ago, recently
sold at 18s. Including uncalled capital,
the cover was 19s. Id. in net tangibles.
Raub Australian
Most disturbing features of the latest
accounts are the slip in ore reserves,
never much ahead of the mill, from
55,000 to 25,000 tons, or less than six
months’ supply, and the cutting out half-
way through the last term of the rich
stuff being used to keep up the grade of
mill-feed. Value of ore in sight is not
given, but of recent years head values
in the sulphides have been exhibiting a
persistent annual decline.
Such ups and downs, which have
occurred more than once, are to be
expected, however, in view of the much-
faulted nature of the ore-bodies. Imme-
diate div. prospects depend on what
happens at the new No. 10 horizon m
the Bukit Roman section and on No. 3
level in the Raub shaft, where opening
out is now taking place. Also, when
initial difficulties are overcome, some re-
turn can be expected from the new
sands-retreatment plant, installed at a
cost of £39,673 to handle current and
old tailings, of which 27,000 tons assay-
ing 2dwt. and 30,000 tons assaying 4dwt.
were estimated to be available 12 months
ago. In addition, there is 2630 tons
concentrates, assaying B.9dwt., in store.
Another possible source of profit is the
co.’s tin leases, above the power plant,
now the subject of an independent in-
vestigation.
Brisbane-controlled, the co. is working
Malaya’s only important goldmine at
Pahang. The reef, served by four main
and six intermediate shafts, is four miles
long, the gold occurring as a replace-
ment in a large shear zone. Owing to
the fall in mill head values from 9.53dwt.
to 7.59dwt., last year’s profit shrank
£27,788 to £43,581:
Treated, Yield, Costs,
Mar., Tons. Dwt. Ton. Profit. Share. Amt.
1936.. 53,358 8.07 £37,770 1/- £40,000
1937.. 62,339 7.88 29/9 71,369 1/8 66,666
1938.. 65,324 6.19 28/8 43,581 1/1 43,333
That was after charging earnings with
development £29,297 (making £95,500-
odd in three years), exchange £2409 and
depreciation £3OOO. The gold yield
(21,3440 z., including 150 oz. from the
new re-treatment plant) was 479 loz.
lower. Working costs decreased Is. Id.
a ton to 28s. Bd., and no appreciable
reduction need be looked for here. Three
divs. were paid—6d., 4d. and 3d. a share
respectively, making Is. Id. for the year,
as against Is. Bd. in the previous term.
At March 31 the co. held £62,907 stg.
in cash and investments to carry on the
extensive development campaign planned
for the current year, but owed £45,777,
including £25,277 to the bank. Including
returns from the new plant, 46350 z. gold
has been won in the first 12 weeks of
the current term from 14,806 tons, and a
3d. div. is to go out on June 21. Unless
the outlook at the mine has materially
improved, a wiser policy would be to
conserve finances in view of the steep
cost of development. The market values
the ss. shares, of which 800,000 are
issued, at 14s. 6d., as against 9s. 6d. a
few weeks ago and a “high” of 225. 6d.
last year.
Completion of the sulphide section at
Youanmi (W.A.) has doubled plant capa-
city, raising it to 10,000 tons a month.
The board says returns from now on
should show “marked and continued im-
provement.” No mention is made of divi-
dends. In front of 3,492,000 issued 2s.
ords. are 500,000 10s. 7 p.c. cum. prefs.,
put out early in 1935. After receiving
7 p.c., the prefs. are entitled to one-fifth
of remaining profit to be distributed.
* * * *
Ora Banda South, about which little
has been heard for years, has bought the
Tassie Queen, Marble Bar (W.A.).
Returns from the property, though good,
have been small, but better is expected
with further development. The co. was
formed in 1934 to reopen and test the
Orinda mine, near Ora Banda, but after
spending over a year in a fruitless search
it gave up and tried its luck in Queens-
land, where it doesn’t appear to have
been successful either.
* * * *
Two so far unlucky goldseekers, Con-
solidated Gold Areas, N.L., and Midas
Gold Blocks, N.L., have become part-
ners in a free option over an auriferous
deposit near Southern Cross (W.A.).
Round about 1350 tons has been mined
from a 10ft. lode and treated by the
vendors for 8430 z. gold over the plates.
Sands are estimated to contain 7dwt. a
ton. Consolidated has a three-quarter
and Midas a quarter share in the
property.
* * * *
From a man on the spot: After ex-
tracting about 9000 oz. of gold over a
period of years, Swan Bitter (W.A.) has
practically ceased operations on its East
Murchison mine. All underground work
is finished, and the final clean-up of
residues will take about two months. A
quantity of plant will be sent to Mt.
Magnet, where the co. has taken an
option, recommended by Dr. Moss, over
the Broken Bond.
* * * *
Southern Cross United, one of De
Bernales’s Westralian group, is having its
mine geologically examined, and also
proposes to do some more diamond-
drilling. To date the co. has expended
£150,000 in an unsuccessful attempt to
make its fortune.
* * * t *
Corderoy, Ltd., a little-heard-of
London-controlled Westralian goldmining
concern, has suspended operations owing
to want of funds. The co. holds eight
leases at Pilgrim’s Rest, on the distant
Pilbara field, none of which has so far
proved profitable.
* % * *
“0.b.”: On March 17 alleged victimi-
sation of one unionist resulted in 200
men at the Lancefield mine (W.A.) down-
ing tools. On April 16 Judge Dwyer,
president of the State Arbitration Court,
journeyed 600 miles from Perth to the
mine to try to settle the dispute. Having
heard both sides, he decided there hadn’t
been any victimisation, and urged the
strikers to resume work. They refused.
Later, with the consent of both sides,
Judge Wolff agreed to hear an appeal
from the men on the spot against Judge
Dwyer’s decision, provided they returned
to their jobs and agreed to abide by his
(Wolff’s) judgment. They reluctantly did
so. On June 6 it was announced that
Judge Wolff concurred with Judge
Dwyer’s decision. The strike delayed
mining and treatment operations for
nearly 10 weeks, and the strikers sacri-
ficed wages for that period.


HOTEL METROPOLE
■
mm
■
111
phi
in
■
mi
m
■
if
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE " Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“She had an aversion for birds, and I’ve
repeatedly seen her flinch when a flock of
pigeons passed overhead.” — Woman’s paper.
The bird that women seem to fear
now is the stork.
4* 4* 4* 4*
If it is true that newspapers mould
public opinion, certain dailies are only
bluemoulding it.
❖ 4* 4* 4*
“He remembered his opponent feinting, but
knew nothing of the knockout punch that fol-
lowed.” —Boxing item.
Not even a feint recollection.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The employer who keeps his staff
short-handed is usually close-fisted.
4* *l* 4* *l*
When a girl starts referring to her
boy-friend as a poor fish he’s liable to
be scaled.
4* 4*
“Of what avail is it to go speeding through
the country in a car missing the scenery?”
— Woman’s paper.
But often enough a speedster’s car
doesn’t miss the scenery.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“This game young bride will spend her
honeymoon at sea on a tug.”— '‘Sun.”
A “tender” romance.
4* 4* 4•4*
The Play’s the Thing.
“An amateur dramatic society recently ex-
perimented with a play in which the characters
made up their lines as they went along.”
It probably went something like this:
Dramatis Personae.
Henry Fitz Giggle: A porous-plaster
tester.
Euphemia Fitz Giggle: His wife.
Agatha Tuffide: His wife’s mother.
Scene: Breakfast-room of Fitz Giggle
menage.
Henry (meekly): “I”
Euphemia (acidly): “No, Henry, you
certainly can’t! The idea! Yes, / know
what you want to do. Go and waste
your time pottering around the garden.
It’s just an excuse for getting out of
doing the washing up.”
H.: “B”
E.: “Don’t argue with me, Henry.
You don’t think I’m a fool, do you? You
said that yesterday, and when I go out
there you are talking cricket over the
fence with that good-for-nothing loafer
next door, with me here slaving my
fingers to the bone for you.”
Agatha: “H’m! You might have ex-
pected that. He’s as bad as your father.
All men are alike.”
H.: “Co”
E.: “Don’t be so rude, Henry, inter-
rupting mother when she is talking! If
you haven’t any respect for me, at least
you should have some for poor mother,
and you know how bad her nerves”
A.: “H’m! A lot he cares how my
nerves are. He probably wishes I was
dead if the truth’s known. But that’s
all you can expect from men these days.
They only think of themselves, the
brutes!”
H.: “Di”
E.: “Henry! I do wish you wouldn’t
have so much to say. I suppose if I
was that blonde hussy in your office
you’d fall over yourself to be nice. It’s
just what I’ve always suspected. It
wouldn’t surprise me”
Dialogue for remainder of Scene 1
and for Scenes 2 to 8 will be in like pro-
portion.
80.
Some Cutting Remarks.
“His wife was one: of those sharp-looking
women.” — “D.T.”
I know the kind! They have a pierc-
ing gaze, and always speak with an in-
cisive emphasis that keeps your nerves
on edge. You only have to give them
the slightest cause for jealousy and they
run you through a questionnaire, and
insist on ypur severing all your old
acquaintanceships.
Moreover, they look daggers if you
come home whet, and invariably demand
a large slice of your pay. It’s no good
telling them to cut it out. If you don’t
part up they’re only too keen to get their
knife into you. And you’re liable to feel
very cut up by the time they bury the
axe.
T. W. N.
Hh *l* *!•
“Edrich’s batting became vague and intro-
spective.”—Neville Cardus.
Brooding darkly, Swoggle waited for
the next ball. That cursed indecision
was responsible for his horrid psycholo-
gical state of fears, doubts and com-
plexes, and he decided it was no longer
endurable. The ball came up, a juicy
”My oath , he did put up a fight!”
long hop a foot outside the leg stump,
but the batsman was far too inhibited
to flay it. Sighing pathetically, he turned
and committed suicide by smashing the
stumps with his bat.
Dave.
Tearing Into It.
“Mr. Mahoney (Lab., Tas.) drew the atten-
tion of the Acting Minister for Customs to a
report that Count Von Luckner had demon-
strated tearing a telephone directory in half.”
—“ D.Tr
How popular at parties this odd, en-
dearing little prank can make you! Once
people know you can tear a directory in
half you will leap ahead of the card-
trick dullards, the nitwits who can play
“Home, Sweet Home” on a handsaw and
even the oaf who can extract goldfish
from his ears or find a dud two-bob in
your pocket and remove a good one.
And it is good for your repressions.
All that you ever thought about the
Income Tax Dept, can be successfully
sublimated by slowly tearing a directory
into very small pieces. It is, too, much
less painful than the old method of tear-
ing your hair.
There are sound practical reasons as
well. Directories are no use when they
are always being changed or “classified.”
Searching for Dobbs, Wm., Plmbr., while
the sink pipes are flooding the kitchen
and while Dobbs is lurking coyly under
“Bthrm. Engrs., Plmbrs., see Fits. Dmstc.,
see Zoo, etc.,” simply means that the
tmct. and the wf. get drnd. How much
better to tr. thm. up!
Count Von Two-Three.
t t +
Bitter Sweet.
“Mr. Webber, of Wauchope, said that he
paid £2B to send a truck of honey to Sydney,
whereas cattle-dealers paid £9.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Beekeepers should wax angry if
They’re forced to pay these freights so
stiff,
And keep things buzzing till they bring
Relief from such a painful sting!
Me.
Some Little-known Facts About
Mexico.
I. —General Knowledge.
The name Mexico is derived from the
ancient Mexican war-god Huitzilopochtli.
It is their facial contortions while try-
ing to pronounce this name when in-
voking the god’s aid in revolutions which
give Mexicans such a queer look.
Mexico is a large group of silver mines,
oil wells and bullfight arenas surrounded
by dense groves of the agave-tree, from
which the national beverage is made;
the whole is set on a vast plateau
several thousand feet high between North
and South America. It is still a moot
point among foreign scientists whether it
is the rarefied atmosphere in which the
majority of Mexicans dwell or the effects
of the national tipple that cause the
giddiness which makes the inhabitants
wander around so much in circles.
Beneficent Nature, however, has pro-
vided against any disastrous effects of
this weakness by dotting the country with
cactus bushes, which, growing profusely
on the edges of the plateau, save
thousands of lives annually.
The population is made up of Yaquis,
Mestizoes, Gachupines, Zambos, Tapi-
julapas, Zoques, Creoles, Pueblos and a
few Mexicans. As in the last census
most of these were included by mistake
in the thousands of technical names of
Mexico’s extensive fauna, the total popu-
lation is, even for its own Government,
a matter of guesswork.
Mexicans are among the world’s most
athletic peoples. They’ve got to be, for
it is on the great plateau that all revo-
lutions take place, and when these fail
the revolutionaries are compelled to beat
it at high speed to the coast to make
their getaways in banana and coffee boats.
The only way they can get down is via
the precipitous slopes. Similarly, revo-
lutions are invariably hatched down in
the sandy, marshy littoral, well away from
the seat of the Government which they
hope to kick. To get a revolution under
way a climb of over 8000 ft. is neces-
sary, and it is an admirable commentary
on the virile nature of the Mexican that
only 96 p.c. of revolutions peter out be-
fore the first foothills have been scaled.
The revoluzionos is the country’s chief
industry, employing at times up to 90
p.c. of the populace. The recent wave of
Anglophobism which swept Mexico was
not, as many suppose, due to the sharp
protests from Britain because of the con-
fiscation of oil wells, but to national
pique following the announcement that
England had succeeded in perfecting a
combustion engine capable of 8000 revo-
lutions a minute. The Mexicans, a proud
people, were justly incensed that the
record they had held for so long had at
last been broken.
Modernisation of communication sys-
tems has brought the revoluzionos in-
dustry to a high stand-
ard. Now, with the
advent of such up-to-
date facilities as the
helio and the one-way
telegraph, production
has leaped ahead.
Prior to this much
confusion existed, and
it was no uncommon
thing for rural fol-
lowers of some revo-
lutionary leader to be
fighting against him
as President four or
five revolutions later,
they being unaware
that his cause had
succeeded.
Among the next
most important indus-
tries are earthquake
dodging, the cultiva-
tion of the staple
foods (chillis and red
pepper), and the re-
afforestation of the
agave-tree.
Pulque, the national
drink (which is also
regarded as Mexico’s
patron saint), has been
declared a Government monopoly con-
sequent upon the many casualties suffered
by the consumers when it was bdttled
privately in ordinary glass receptacles.
Now it is bottled in specially armored
containers in the Small Arms Factory.
Mescal, a more potent drink which
is also popular, has such a corrosive
effect on wood, steel or glass that it can
only be drunk straight from the tree.
Owing to limited production, the supply
is reserved exclusively for pica-, mata-
and toreadors, who take it before enter-
ing the ring. Its strength is standardised
at seven bullfights to the pint.
S. W. K.
Innocents at Home.
The world to some seems drab and grey.
Grown old in wickedness, they say;
But politicians, “books” and seers,
And some big business profiteers
Know well by what is daily seen
The world remains a verdant green.
H. M.
Sore Point.
With screaming headlines I am told
That Bradman has a trifling cold,
O’Reilly stubbed his toe and Brown
Is just a weeny bit run down.
While presses rumble, rip and roar
About each pimple, cold or sore,
I try my best to keep in check
The pain they give me in the neck !
D. McM.
Viewpoints.
“A radio provides thrills for everyone.”
—Wireless magazine.
Its rhythm hours with pleasure fill
Full many hearts, no doubt;
While others think its greatest thrill
Is when they hear “He's out!’’
There’s some it joys with croony men,
Howe'er the highbrows scoff ;
But more get satisfaction when
They turn the damned thing off!
T. W. N.


9lLiji)Hjfaymack imsl
Familiar words to-day—familiar because people have found
that a cheque account provides the most efficient and con-
venient method of paying accounts.
Tradesmen, salaried men, housewives—in fact people in all
walks of life—find that to pay by cheque is just as convenient
for them as it is for large business organisations.
You can transact your business most safely and conveniently
by cheque . . . and it is a simple matter to open a cheque
account at the Head Office or any branch of this Bank.
Interest-bearing Fixed Deposits from £5 and upwards are
also accepted.
Rural Bank
or New south w a l e $
Head Office : MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners :
C. R. McKerihan (President), H. Rogers, P. Kearns.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Why Are Prices Low?
Shocks about threatened “incidents”
that haven’t happened have seemingly a
lot to do with the slide in markets for
commodities and shares everywhere. The
threat of lowering the price of gold in
the U.S.A. last April began a panic that
started the market pendulum downward,
and from time to time since there have
been rumors that the Empire would be
involved in war, with consequent shaking
of confidence. When Germany annexed
Austria there was a particularly notice-
able quaking on the Stock Exchanges,
although war doesn’t usually assail the
value of industrial investments so much
as it does fixed-interest securities and
currency itself. Nevertheless, the cumu-
lative effect of all these scares and
alarums has been a steady weakening
in the level of prices. At least, the scares
appear to have been the cause.
But all the time these obtrusive aspects
of world affairs have been taking the
eye, less obvious but more far-reaching
influences have been at work. Britain’s
pound sterling has been steady at a
figure giving gold a value of about £7
an ounce for years now, and inflation
in the currency therefore hasn’t pro-
gressed at the rate of rises in costs and
retail prices in the Old Country. Much
of the boom in Britain that brought on
these higher figures has been caused by
a sudden attempt to overtake quickly
the arrears of years —arrears of building,
electrification, factory equipment, trans-
port development, furnishing and, lastly,
rearmament. Though world prices for
commodities are down, after soaring to
a dizzy peak, there is a big “rearmament
premium” in British wage rates that has
tended to push all skilled-labor costs
up. There has thus been a rather mush-
room-like aspect of Britain’s recovery—
more boisterous than strong.
In France costs have soared under a
socialistic Government, and confidence,
what there is of it in that country, has
become very temperamental. Japan is
off the world’s market as a buyer for
many things as a result of the expensive
China campaign.
There is a growing tendency to “do
without” in many parts of the world.
When things looked bright in the U.S.A.
18 months ago Americans were flinging
money about on Australian wool at an
unheard-of rate. This season, with the
“Roosevelt slump” on, Uncle Sam’s chil-
dren have hardly bought a bale of our
wool. They are using only what they
themselves produce. There is now some
clamor for inflation, which only leads
to more trouble.
The position of world trade is there-
fore still subject to those currency and
industrial problems that were dinner-table
talk before war scares burst into the
headlines. In Australia we hear little of
France’s grave economic troubles, and
Left-Wing writers don’t seem to like
discrediting Roosevelt’s New Deal. None
the less, in France and the U.S.A.
we have two clear cases of where wish-
bone prevailed over backbone in com-
bating depression, and there has not been
any real recovery in either country. Costs
are again out of step with prices in spite
of inflation, and world trade is suffering.
It is plainly time Government experi-
mentalists abandoned the ingenious for
the ingenuous, and
pursued clear and
straightforward
courses. There is far
too much deceit and
humbug in inflation
and the things that
go with it.
It seems to be a
buyers’ sharemarket
now in many cases
of listed investment
stocks. Mt. Lyell
scrip was never for
long below 20s. dur-
ing the slump—it was
weakest during 1934-
35, when there were
drought and other
difficulties and is
now around 235.
Zinc Corp. ords. are
another counter that
has bpen heavily
slashed. In Febru-
ary, 1937, the Barrier
market closed with
quotes as shown in
the first line of this
table; present quotes
are shown in the second line:
Zinc Corp.
North. South. Ord.
27/2/’37 .. 87s. 565. 168 s.
10/6/’3B .. 375. 275. 675.
North scrip has fallen 57 p.c., South 52
p.c., Zinc Corp. 60 p.c. Apparently the
larger denomination (10s. stg., against
ss. Aust.) of the scrip, as well as the
greater potential value, which sent the
scrip to a seemingly higher figure than
in the case of North and South, has
influenced the heavier fall in Zinc Corp.
If the div. rate paid for last year is halved
this term, the yield to investors will still
be good, with long-term prospects excel-
lent.
& # %
There has been* a noticeable swing
toward sound “middle-class” industrials
on the Stock Exchanges. Kandos Cement
(returning 6.4 p.c.), Australian Cement
(6 p.c.), Arthur Cocks (7 p.c.), Cumber-
land Paper participating first prefs. (4.9
p.c.), Australasian Paper ords. (5.3 p.c.),
Finney Isles (6.7 p.c.), Berlei (4.8 p.c.),
Morris Hedstrom (5 p.c.), Bradford
Cotton (7 p.c.) and Yarra Falls (5.1 p.c.)
are among these “better-yielders” ; while
Gordon and Gotch ords., though seem-
ingly high in the market at 545. 6d., cum
div., also return nearly 5 p.c. on a 13
p.c. div. basis. Mauri Bros, and Thomson
ords., among the front-rankers, at 695.
return 4.4 p.c. All these are good stocks,
giving from fair to high returns, and the
market seems definitely to favor this type
of investment at the moment. Anything
that, has a doubt about it, or which is
giving a low yield, has come in for a
marking-down, the principal exception in
“Begging your pardon, sir, but I've been here forty years to-day."
“WELL, what do you want me to do? Kiss you!”
the latter category being Washington H.
Soul ords., which sold at the record figure
of 945. last week.
Also in demand last week were the
essentially “safe” type of investments
returning an income of 4 p.c. or better.
Adelaide Steam, Edwards Dunlop, North
Coast Steam, Illawarra Steam, Newcastle
Steam and Carlton Brewery were among
the issues to keep above or around their
recent average level; on the other hand
British Tobacco, Australian Glass and
Colonial Sugar, among the low-yielding
front-liners, have shown recession re-
cently, as has Henry Jones, which now,
incidentally, yields above 4 p.c., as does
Broken Hill Prop.
$ % % *
In Sydney last week Colonel Eric
Campbell, solicitor, Brig.-Gen. H. W.
Lloyd, M.L.A., and Richard A. Dues-
bury, accountant, were arrested and
charged with conspiring to pervert the
course of justice and to defraud the
creditors and shareholders of Du Menier
Laboratories. Bail of £5OO was allowed
in each case. Campbell is chairman
of Mt. Morgan and a director of Dis-
count and Finance ; Lloyd, M.L.A. for
Mosman, was chairman of Hamiltons
(Australasia), Ltd.
* * * *
It is now apparent that the favorable
trade balance for 1937-38 will not be
large enough to cover overseas interest
commitments, and that London reserves
will need to be drawn on for about
£9,000,000 stg. It is likely that London
funds will drop to near £60,000,000 stg.,
including the sterling backing for the
note issue. The Australian borrowings
which have taken place recently in Lon-
don may make the cash position look
better than that for the time being, but
the credit position is really worsened.
* * * *
Butter has been pushed up another Id.
a pound in Victoria, N. S. Wales, Queens-
land and Tasmania. There was a lift of
Id. a year ago. Minimum retail price
is now Is. 7d. Whatever the merits of
the producers’ case (if there is a ease),
the lift has been very .badly. fi me u- Wool,
wheat, lead, spelter, copper and many
other items are all down to glory. We
seem to be in for lower prices all round
for a time, and locally-made anomalies
will be resented. Even the depression cut
of 4d. a pound in sugar has never been
restored. Since January, 1933, sugar has
been 4d. a pound, as against 4|d. before.
* * * *
On the day that the increased price
of butter was announced, shares in North
Coast Steam (N.S.W.) lifted from 40s.
to 415., and to 41s. 6d. on Friday. There
are also the perennial hopes of a higher
final div. next month. Illawarra Steam’s
1 p.c. lift has given encouragement. On
the present div. basis, yield is slightly
under 4 p.c., allowing for div. accruing.
* * * *
Shares in Edwards, Dunlop, that
solidly-established printers’ supplier, lifted
to 50s. last week, the highest price since
the last new issue was made. Quarterly
divs. have been at rate of 9% p.c. p.a.,
but 10 p.c. is indicated for the near
future.
* % # sp
Following announcement of plans for
immediate drilling operations by N.Z.
Petroleum Co. in search of petroleum 30
miles- from Gisborne, M.L., shares in
Taranaki Oil changed hands in a long
string on Sydney and other ’Changes last
Thursday, the price lifting from Us. to
12s. overnight. A large steel derrick and
full drilling equipment (costing £80,000)
are expected to be on the job in July.
Taranaki Oil and Oil Search (whose
scrip also firmed) are among the cos.
interested in N.Z. Petroleum, in which
the Vacuum Co. has invested £125,000
to kick off with.
*
Scrip in Wests, the picture-theatre and
-investment co. (B. 12/5/’37) changed
hands at 6s. last week, as against ss. lid.
prior to the latest market bump. It is
the most interesting of the picture cos.;
its theatre interests in Adelaide and
Maoriland, together with a holding in
Consols, etc., have turned in earnings
averaging 1.48 p.c. on capital over the
past five years. For the latest term £3488
has been earned, which covers the li p.c.
div. (£3375). Nothing has been received
since the slump from shares in Greater
Union.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
National Bank £5 shares recovered from their
“low” of £6 Bs., and changed hands at £6 12s.
They are still depressed to a much lower level
than most other banks, and return £4 11s. per
cent.
Davies, Coop ords., in whch there have been
few dealings since the co. announced its inten-
tion of making motor-tyre yarn, sold at 235., a
fall of 3s. from the usual price earlier in the
year.
Australasian Paper ords. were still going
cheaply at 305., to yield 5.3 p.c., and Holeproof
ords. at 245., to return over 8 p.c.
Broken Hill Prop, fully-paids slipped under
605., after being comparatively firm for some
days.
North Broken Hill scrip faded to 375.,
Souths to 275., and Zinc Corps, to 675.
Electro. Zincs slumped to 365. 6d.
Drug Houses shares recovered to 255., after
being down to 235. 6d. a week earlier.


Australasian Paper.
Australasian Paper ords. were
back to 30s. last week, yielding
5.3 p.c. This is one of the best
returns offering from an essential
industry largely in the control of
one organisation. Recent expan-
sion was noted here last week.
HE LOST HIS
MONEY IN STEEL!
During the five years slump he lost over £8
in old razor blades —he used about two every
week. Then he changed to a Wilkinson
Razor. The Wilkinson needs but four
blades a year because they’re full hollow
ground blades that have enough good steel
in them to take a keen edge, and the
mekanized self-stropping of these blades
puts the keen edge back time and time again.
Change to a Wilkinson the finest shaving
instrument a man can possess.
it
RA.ZOR
Oak Can
with tw
Hol l o w
ou n d
Blades
S'ls/6
Strop
In Nickel- v.
plated Case 19/t
InCbromeCase.
three Blades
and Strop. 27/6
'l-DA /■ set
with a blade lor
every day o/ the
week - - 37/6
HOUOW GROUND BLADt
WILKINSON
Made in England by
The Wilkinson Cutlery Co. Ltd.
★ Obtainable from all Stores
iii
wm
ti
fWmm
VAOXHALL 14’
In the 5 years that the Vauxhall T4’ has
been on the market in Australia, more than
10,500 cars have been sold—a popularity
that today has culminated in the ‘l 4’ being
Australia’s third biggest seller. Thorough
British engineering. .Holden-built bodies
designed for Australian motoring..low-
cost parts and readily available expert ser-
vice ... high resale value.. economical up-
keep-all these advantages combine
with the features detailed at right to
put the Vauxhall T4’ head and shoulders
above all other light cars for value.
‘AIR CHIEF’ CAR RADIO. ‘Air Chief’ is the only set you should consider when you decide
to install a car radio. Provision has been made in the design of Vauxhall ‘l4’ to accommodate
car radio and a special ‘Air Chief’ model has been developed for this installation, The controls
match the other furnishings of the instrument panel—the Speaker fits flush with the roof lining
(Saloon models) and the Receiver Unit, which gives 9-valve performance, fits right out of the way
under the Dash panel. The ‘Acoustinator’ is an additional feature which provides the best
possible reproduction of every type of programme. Ask your dealer for a demonstration.
Consult your local Authorised
Vauxhall Dealer
SI 58
No other Small Car
has all these
Features
Smoother Speedier
6-Cylinder Engine
You don’t need to have your
hand constantly on the gear
lever when you drive the
Vauxhall ‘l4.’ Its 6-cylinder
Overhead Valve Engine has a
smoothness and flexibility that
only more powerful cars can
rival. You can get into top
gear and stay there, settling
back comfortably to drive with
your foot.
Amazing Economy
Owners frequently report from
28 to 29 miles per gallon.
One of the exclusive features
contributing to the Vauxhall
‘I4V economy is the Economy
Adjustment Ignition by which
the ignition can be adjusted
to secure the utmost economy
from whatever grade of petrol
is used.
Independent Front
Wheel Springing
Once experience the comfort of
Vauxhall ‘l4’s’ Independent
Front Wheel Springing and you
will realize why Independent
Front Wheel Springing is mak-
ing old-type leaf springs obso-
lete. Take this extract from
the English “Autocar” which
describes cars exhibited at the
Paris Show: “The conversion
to Independent Wheel Suspen-
sion is so complete that there
appears to be only one Contin-
ental maker who does not have
a model with independently
sprung front wheels, and that
maker is preparing to convert.”
Turret Top Body
by Holden
No other small saloon compares
with the Vauxhall ‘l4’ in the
features and finish of its body
work. Scientific sound insula-
tion damps out noise. No-
Draught Ventilation brings free-
dom from stuffiness. Multi-
Adjustable Front Seat gives an
equally comfortable driving-
position to women and men.
Relax-o-form Seating means
fatigue-free journeys. Pockets
in all Doors ensure space for
dust cloths, maps and parcels.
Driver’s armrest as well as rear
seat armrests and assist cords
heighten your sense of comfort,
while Armourplate Safety Glass
in Windscreen and all side
windows gives you a complete
sense of protection.
Buy on the Convenient, Confi-
dential G.M.A.C. Payment Plan.
General Motors-Holden’s Limited
The wool clip for the coming season is
estimated at 2,970,000 bales, down about
280,000 bales on the average of the past
two seasons. The estimate is subject to
the effects of unusual seasonal conditions.
Selling of the new clip will start in Syd-
ney on August 29.
Australian wheat production for the
1937-38 season is estimated at 180,515,000
bushels, an increase of 29,125,000 bushels,
to which a lift of 1,491,000 acres (to
13,807,000 acres) in the area sown and
a rise of three-quarters of a bushel in
the yield (13.1 bushels) contributed.
N. S. Wales doesn’t participate in the
increase, which is largely due to the
much better yield per acre in South
Aus., where the third-largest harvest on
record has been stripped. The Common-
wealth’s total production of wheat for
the season is the highest since Parker
Moloney’s “Grow More Wheat Cam-
paign” resulted in 213,927,000 bushels
being stripped in 1932-33, when it could
hardly be sold at a profit anywhere.
The grain is selling at about 3s. 6d.
(ports) just now, having fallen since recent
rains improved prospects.
*■ * sic ’:!=
Adelaide Stock Exchange went up in.
smoke last week. Careworn sharemarket
punters everywhere consider the incident
perfectly symbolical of their hopes.
ik * :Jc v *
Bradford Cotton (N.S.W.) ords. have
firmed to 425. 3d., and there are now no
sellers at that figure. The co. has had
an excellent record, having paid divs.
right through the last slump, and its
capital account has never grown to excess,
though the factory has been kept right
up to date. There are now 161,250 £1
ords. and 40,000 6 p.c. prefs. ; on ord.
capital as it stood last term 22.8 p.c.
was disclosed and 15 p.c. paid. There
has been a one-for-two cash issue to
ords. since, raising capital account to
the beforementioned figure. There are
good reasons to hope that the 15 p.c. will
be continued on the bigger share-register ;
if so, yield at 425. will be over 7 p.c.
If the interim rate (12| p.c.) only is main-
tained, then the return is 6 p.c. A final
div. is due in September, with accounts
to be presented before that date.
• * * * *
Castlemaine Perkins ords. have relaxed
to 225. 6d. again in Brisbane, yielding
£4 9s. per cent, on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
In 1936-37 12.6 p.c. was earned on capital,
and 10 p.c., including a special 2 p.c.
bonus, went out. Interim this term has
been kept at 8 p.c., but extra benefits in
the way of new par issues and cash
bonuses are always on. There may later
on be a permanent lift in the div. It has
been a most progressive concern in recent
years, with nothing less than 8 p.c. to
shareholders during the last slump, and
a fine div. record before that. It seems
just the stock for nervous investors at
present.
* * * *
Fully-paid £1 ords. in Associated Pulp
(Burnie, Tas.) are going at 19s. 3d. in
Melbourne. Commencement of . paper
production has been delayed because of
late delivery of plant from armament-
busy Britain and because the Tas. Gov-
ernment is behindhand in linking up the
works with the Great Lake power-supply.
Broken Hill capital is backing this enter-
prise, and the long-term outlook is dis-
tinctly encouraging.
* * * *
Stewarts and Lloyds (Aust.), manufac-
turer of drawn and welded steel tubing
at Newcastle (N.S.W.), is controlled by a
Glasgow firm of similar name in associa-
tion with Broken Hill Prop. A large
warehouse-and-office building is going up
alongside the railway line near St.
Leonards (Sydney), and the plant is being
extended to make larger tubes at New-
castle ; last week an increase in Stewarts
and Lloyds’ capital was announced, the
Glasgow firm subscribing for £254,999
in cash, and Broken Hill Prop, for
£244,999, making available approxi-
mately £500,000 altogether.
H*
Copra, below £lO in London, is
situated worse than when around that
figure two or three years back. Freights
to London have lifted from 555. to 80s.
a ton. Therefore cos. with their own
shipping lines are least affected.
* * * *
H. B. Dickie ords. rose to a record
price of 275. 6d. in Melbourne last week,
and buyers were unsatisfied at that figure.
A div. of 7i p.c. was declared in 1936-
37, and an interim at rate of 8 p.c. p.a.
went out in February last. The co. makes
towels and terry-cloth, and is doing well
out of it. Yield on an 8 p.c. div. basis
would be 5.8 p.c.
* ¥ * *
It is rather surprising to learn, in view
of recent unemployment statistics, that
in 1937 all classes of British industries,
with one exception (textiles), showed
growth in profits over 1936. Increased
exports helped early in 1937, and as
overseas markets showed signs of debility
later in the year the rearmament pro-
gramme helped take up the slack. Heavy
industries, motor-cars, aeroplanes and
similar industries showed notable ad-
vance ; tobacco, breweries, foodstuffs,
clothing, railways and electric light ex-
hibited moderate but definite progress.
The present year has opened hesitantly,
and opinion is that a peak of industrial
activity was reached in Britain in 1937,
and that the pendulum is for the time
being on a downward swing.
* * # *
Arthur Cocks ords. (B. 19/5/’3B) lifted
further last week, selling at 235. 6d., and
returning roughly 7 p.c.
There is a movement afoot to get a
“stabilised” price of tin in the Common-
wealth—around £2OO sterling a ton has
been mentioned. The idea had better be
left alone, even though most of our tin
production is used within the country.
The world’s average price of the rftetai
since the war has been over £2OO a ton,
and though the stuff is down now it will
come again.
* * * *
David Jones ords.- (Sydney), after
dropping to 405., have recovered to
41s. 3d. Generally speaking, Sydney
retailers’ margins of profits are decreas-
ing, because wages costs are growing at
a greater rate than turnover. This was
pointed out here months ago. So long
as turnovers increase profits may expand
in spite of this position; but if sales
are checked the burden of higher costs
will soon be felt. D.J. is probably better
equipped to face such difficulties than
most.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
A Fence Round Palestine.
[One of the most extraordinary means ever adopted
. as an aid to putting down terrorism in any country is
described in this digest of an article by London “Times”
Jerusalem correspondent (28/5/’3B). With the frequently
reported instances of terrorism in the Holy Land,
involving a steadily-mounting loss of life in the British
control forces, it might strike thinking people that
John Bull has enough on his hands in such nuisance
jobs as this, to say nothing of looking after Empire
affairs, without being expected to fly to arms whenever
a piffling “incident” in some foreign country sets
alarmists crying “Wolf!”]
A scheme for a barbed-wire “wall,” suggested
by Sir Charles Tegart, adviser to the Palestine Govern-
ment on suppressing terrorism, is being undertaken
at a cost of £90,000 to prevent bands fleeing from
justice, smuggling arms or entering for terrorism
and agitation across the frontiers between Palestine
and Syria, Transjordan and the Lebanon.
Terrorism in Palestine has been difficult to isolate
and control because when pursued the bands, and
especially their leaders, have been able to slip over
the borders, often carrying away cattle and other
booty. Arms unprocurable in Palestine have been
easily secured from Syria and Transjordan and
smuggled into Palestine, along with many cheaply
hired gunmen. The stopping of these practices has
become an essential to the restoration of order in
the British Mandated territory.
Specifications call for a barbed-wire fence ex-
tending for about 50 miles from the coastal road
at Ras en Nakura, eastwards to Nebi Yusha (Metullah)
and curving down to the Huleh marshes. Jewish
colonies at that point form a barrier, but the fence
resumes at Rosh Pinna and extends to Tabigha on
the Sea of Galilee, which in turn will be patrolled by
motor-launches. South of the Sea of Galilee a two
and-a-half-mile stretch as far as the mouth of the
Yarmuk River will be fenced. Plans are being made
for obstructing the passage of the Jordan River be-
tween Palestine and Transjordan at its 70 fords.
The fence is to vary in thickness according to
local conditions. The single bay type will consist of
two parallel barbed-wire fences some 6ft. high and
sft. apart, each fence consisting of iron posts with
2in. mesh rabbit wire at the bottom surmounted by
barbed wire, and the space between the two fences
not only criss-crossed with barbed wire, but also
filled with loose masses of tangled wire below. In
some places there will be three parallel fences, the
two outer bays being as elaborately wired as that
mentioned.
The fence will be guarded from police posts
along the frontier road, which will be made easier
to defend than at present, and supplemented by pill-
boxes armed with Lewis guns at places where deep
wadis or customary tracks cross the frontier. Search-
lights on the police posts and pillboxes will be able
to keep most of the defence line under observation
at night, and the additional precaution of patrolling
the fence at 10-minute intervals with police cars
equipped with searchlights will doubtless be enough
to protect those parts out of observation of the police
posts.
The 70 fords of the Jordan River by which
terrorists and contraband have crossed to and from
Transjordan present another problem. Thirty-five of
the fords can be watched effectively from high ground
near by. The remainder will be rendered impassable
by fences on the banks, supplemented by submerged
wiring.
The erection of this formidable barrier is un-
questionably a necessity in present conditions, but
if the other experiments being made in Palestine
are to be permanent the necessity for such war-time
precautions must be removed by so just a settlement
of the problems of the country that her frontiers
will be guarded by the mutual goodwill and con-
fidence of herself and her neighbors. It would be
a tragedy if the future State or States could only
exist behind barbed-wire entanglements.
“Selling Value” of Lies.
[Defending newspaper trafficking in war rumors—
a*:d also, presumably, such false report as the
leaded comment quoted in these pages under the heading
“Work for Dr. Freud”—Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
(4/6/’3B) lays down the significant journalistic axiom
that “it is the privilege of intelligent readers to accept
or reject.” The “D.T.,” then, should panel that axiom
and keep it as a warning in its cable columns. Viscount
Rothermere wrote the article here condensed from
London “Daily Mail,” 27/5/’3B.]
My own impressions of Italy to-day are those
of a country both prosperous and happy.
These impressions are formed notwithstanding the
reports from various quarters and in Left-Wing news-
papers to the effect that her people are short of food.
The Italian people, be it remembered, were always,
by our more northern standards, a frugal people.
The idea, sedulously propagated by Red publi-
cists, of a nation desperate for supplies is entirely
without truth, as any visitor will confirm.
Such stories are like those earlier tales, wired
home by the German correspondents of certain
English newspapers, that Germany was short of food
and that bread queues were lining up in the great
cities. These reports were sheer inventions.
Such mischievous stories are ladled out to readers
in Britain merely because they are believed by their
inventors to have a selling value.
The selling value of these false reports, such as
I have just contradicted, arises from the fact that
many of our people feel a great temperamental an-
tagonism to the totalitarian form of government.
An Intruder in Czechoslovakia.
[Condensed from a letter in London “Times” by Geza
Szullo, member of the Czechoslovak Parliament, Hun-
garian Minority Section, this item expresses resentment
of an impudent brand of interference which is doing
neither Britain’s prestige nor the cause of peace any
good in Europe. It will be recalled that Labor leader
Attlee was responsible for the same sort of partisan
interference in Spain.]
The visit to Czechoslovakia of Mr. Noel Baker,
M.P., was announced long in advance as an attempt
to collect reliable first-hand information on the spot.
This would have meant his getting in touch with all
the competent parties and persons. It appears, how-
ever, that he restricts his intercourse to the Socialist
party, which commands in the Sudeten German
districts the support of rather less than one-tenth of
the whole population. He takes no notice of the
Hungarian or any other minority.
A more serious aspect of his journey is his con-
tinued interference in Czechoslovak elections, and it
would not seem out of place to call British public
opinion to this matter. Mr. Noel Baker takes the
platform of German Socialists and holds electioneering
harangues in which he prophesies the full support by
the British Parliamentary Labor party. The over-
whelming majority of the general public resent this
interference of a foreigner in local politics as strongly
as British public opinion would resent foreigners
participating actively in British election campaigns.
This interference is not fair, in complete contra-
diction to the generally accepted British efforts at
impartiality. We hold that Mr. Noel Baker may come
here any time, like any other foreigner, enjoy the
hospitality of the country, see his friends as often
and wherever he likes, but he has no right to mix
up with local party politics, &nd take sides on the
public platform.
In England there are sufficient precedents where
foreigners, trespassing in this manner, have been de-
ported.
Who Owns England?
{Condensed from a London “Daily Express” article by
Emrys Jones.)
The other day front pages of the newspapers
told that the Marquis of Bute was selling half the
city of Cardiff, worth £20,000,000, for an unstated
sum. Similar deals have been made over this last
twenty years; in that time nearly a sixth of the land
of England has changed hands.
Of the forty-five million people who live in Great
Britain, forty-three million do not own a single inch
of it. This is socially important, and, some argue,
politically dangerous, because most of the land is
agricultural, and you need only half an eye to see
that the trusteeship of that land is not always first-
class.
The landlords also wield immense powers in the
cities. Of London’s eight million inhabitants only
40,000 own any of its vast and rich acres.
Most important of that 40,000 is the Duke of
Westminster. A few years ago about three-quarters
of a square mile of London’s most valuable land
was in the duke’s estate; statisticians put it at
£20,000,000.
High up in the list is the name of Lord Howard
de Walden, once described as “London’s richest land-
lord, with an income of £400,000 a year.” Until 1925
he owned a goldmine round about Oxford-street,
forty acres of it, which he sold to a trust at a price
said to be £3,000,000. The trust was largely owned
by Sir John Ellerman. That followed reports made
a few years before that he had sold a slab of London s
West End for £4,000,000. That makes £7,000,000.
It is ten years now since the site of London’s new
university in Bloomsbury was bought from the Duke
of Bedford for £525,000. In the years just before
the war the Duke of Bedford did quite a lot of selling.
Fashionable Berkeley-square, now under the builders,
and a few of the adjoining streets left the title of
the Earl of Berkeley in 1919 and went to Lord
Bearsted, former London Lord Mayor. It is estimated
that even then the freehold value of the land and
houses was more than £5,000,000.
Wielding as much power and certainly more
influence are the great town landlords outside Lon-
don. Most potent in South Wales is the Marquis of
Bute. To South Wales the Bute family are as in-
fluential as the Stanleys are in Lancashire. What
the fortunes of Lord Derby are you may gather from
the deals in town lands he has made. He has sold
towns. Just over twenty years ago Lord Derby
owned practically the whole of Bootle, with the ex-
ception of the docks. He sold it with other Lancashire
property for £1,750,000. Before that Lord Derby
sold 5000 acres in Bury, Radcliffe, Whitefield, Man-
chester and Salford. That deal meant the sale of the
town of Bury with a population of 58,000 people.
In the news now is Mr. Henry Talbot de Vere
Clifton, concerning a £30,000 poker loss in fifteen
minutes in America. He is a rich Lancashire land-
owner whose property extends for five and a half
miles along the coast, including the whole town of
Lytham St. Annes. Last October he sold the ground
rents of the estate for £500,000.
Apart from the social consequences, plenty of
romantic stories get into this business of the buying
and selling of towns. Samuel William Copley, who
died last year, began life as a lather-boy in Hudders-
field, and then emigrated to Australia. He returned
with a fortune that so many go to seek and few find.
As he sat one day in a London financier’s office in
1919, he heard that Sir John Ramsden, virtual owner
of Huddersfield, was thinking of selling the town.
“Dammit,” said Mr. Copley, “that’s my home town.
I’ll buy it.” He did, raised £1,350,000 in less than
forty-eight hours, bought the town, and then trans-
ferred it to the corporation.
So Huddersfield, like most of our towns, now
belongs to the citizens through the corporation. This
is the trend : the big landowners are going out
and the corporations are coming in. For though, to
take London alone, there are a few great landlords,
the biggest landlord of all is the L.C.C. with an eye
on 280,000 tenants and dispatching rent bills for
£1,600,000-odd every year. The private landlords go
because of taxes and death duties.
Spotlights on Spain.
[The items here given are surveyed at some length in
the panel article headed “The Realistic View.” First
is condensed from a report by London “Times” Hendaye
correspondent.]
There has been much activity along the French
frontier since the Nationalists began their victorious
offensive which took them to the shores of the Medi-
terranean. A steady flow of war material destined
for the Republican Army has been entering Catalonia
once more. It includes, besides field-guns and anti-
aircraft guns, aeroplanes, of which, according to some
estimates, as many as 200 have entered Republican
Spain since March.
The great bulk of it is not of French manufacture.
It is sealed by the French frontier authorities on entry
into France, and leaves the country in the same con-
dition. Many of the guns are said to be of Central
European origin, while numbers of aeroplanes appear
to have crossed the Atlantic in spite of the Nationalist
blockade. It is thought significant that “La Van-
guardia,” a leading Barcelona newspaper, recently
published violent attacks on all the foreign Embassies
in Republican Spain, with the exception of that of
the United States.
While it is perhaps misleading to speak of in-
creased French intervention in Spain, it is certain that
the French frontier authorities have relaxed their
vigilance.
(Condensed from an article by London “Observer’s”
Rome correspondent.)
According to Italian quarters, the war material
which has entered Catalonia during the past month
(to mid-May) includes 50,000 Mauser rifles, 792
Mauser machine-guns, 1200 tons of high explosive,
75 Schneider guns of unstated calibre, 1500 Hotchkiss
machine-guns, 500 motors, and large quantities of
munitions. No fewer than 5000 volunteers of Czech,
nationality are reported to have crossed the Pyrenean
frontier.
Supplies from Russia are stated to include 300
aeroplanes. Supplies which have reached Alicante
and Valencia in the past three months include 2150
tons of machine-guns and ammunition, 5850 tons of
war material, 959 cases of machine-guns, 20,000 tons
of petrol weekly.
{From a London “Times” Hendaye correspondent
report, 23151’38.]
For several weeks tempestuous weather, allied to
cautious strategy, has reduced the Nationalist offensive
in Spain to gradual pressure against limited objectives.
The pause in military operations has again started
rumors that General Franco has shot his bolt and
that he is pressing his foreign backers for yet more
aid. At present it seems that these rumors are with-
out foundation. General Franco appears to have
ample resources to continue the war victoriously pro-
vided that he ignores the time factor, and his conduct
of operations in the past suggests that he is willing
to do so. Foreign war material is still entering Spain
The Realistic View.
One purpose of “Uncabled Additions” is to help
people in Australia form a realistic idea of what
is going: on in world affairs, even though it might be
something that most would like to feel was not
going on. In other words, “Uncabled Additions” aim
to be an aid to seeing and thinking clearly, not a
sop to false sentimentalism.
The items are condensed from various (named)
publications—mostly British —brought to Australia
by bi-weekly air-mail. Papers drawn on are such
as London “Times,” “Observer” and other sound
publications not given to reckless trafficking in
alarmist scares or catchpenny sensationalism. Other-
wise the test applied in selecting items is that they
should be informative, or that views expressed in
them should be those of experts or authorities, or
ax»pear to be reasonably well-founded.
In the items published in this issue under the
heading “Spotlights on Spain” the Rome figures
might not be taken as disinterested, since Italy is
very deeply interested in Franco’s victory; hut they
get- support from the “Times” Hendaye correspon-
dent’s account given with them, which account helps
to correct the misleading idea cultivated by cables
that it’s only on Franco’s side that other nations
are taking a hand in Spain’s cruel war.
Similarly the item on religious persecution, con-
densed from a letter to the “Times,” is given for the
sake of the information it conveys and the help
that information should be to anyone seeking to
form a realistic idea of the struggle in Spain and its
undercurrents. Also for the sake of their informa-
tion, the items touching on how the rains in Spain
have steadied military operations, a matter on which
cables have been significantly silent, preferring
instead to give people in Australia the idea that the
cause has been stiff resistance, varied in the past
week by trotting out the hackneyed furphies about
uprisings behind Franco’s lines.
Both sides in Spain have, of course, been heavily
reinforced and supplied with men and munitions,
chiefly from Italy and Germany on the one hand,
and from France and Russia on the other. The
supply of American ’planes indicated by the “Times”
correspondent will be news to most Australians. As
for the stand still being pursued by Britain, against
the increasingly insistent urging of those who want
war —any war, anywhere, so long as it’s a war—
THE BULLETIN’S opinion is that John Bull’s sound
sense has never shown to better advantage.


fd
The Worlds Best
BATTERIES
FOR CARS & TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
4038.
Here’s a boot that will
keep pace with you
No matter how
hard you work.
2716
here’s strength in every line of this Abbey Riding Boot. It’s made
to stand the strain of hard, solid wear without losing shape or comfort.
Its uppers are made from high-grade Black or Brown Calf skin, and
it has leather lining throughout. \
Price, Black or Brown, 27/6.
‘lf it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY."
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fane}, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
through the northern ports, but this is nothing new.
There is no noticeable influx of German personnel,
and a further reinforcement of Italian infantry appears
improbable.
( Condensed, from a letter in London “Times,” signed
George Burns, S.J .)
Authorities in Rome are at present engaged in
compiling a careful Martyrology. Twenty-eight
religious Orders have sent in official estimates of their
own dead.
[The writer gives the long list, with the Orders
named. Highest number for any Order, 237: total
listed, 1403.]
These figures are not complete. Many Orders
are in ignorance of the fate of the brethren in Gov-
ernment Spain. The Dominican Fathers have prob-
ably lost over 100 members. The roll of the Hermits
of St. Augustine contained 156 names ; 40 members of
this Order were taken away on a motor-lorry and
never reached the town to which it was said they
were being taken. They disappeared, leaving no trace
behind them. (These 40 are not included in the fore-
going statistics.) Roman authorities are of opinion
that the final list will be almost twice as long.
The anti-religious character of the Spanish Popular
Front became clearly apparent on its accession to
power in 1936. From February 16 to July 17, 1936,
more than 347 churches had been burnt or partially
destroyed.
(This, touching on the war generally, is condensed from
New York “Time" 16151’38.)
Intermittent, heavy spring rains have put a
damper on all large-scale attacks oy born slues in
Spain’s civil war. In the Pyrenees to the north snow
turned mountain roads into slippery, slimy trails, pre-
venting Rightist [Franco] troops from making any
appreciable gains.
Meanwhile, in Barcelona, author-correspondent
Vincent Sheean, who reached Spain only two months
ago, has been most struck by this war’s incongruous
combination of ultra-modern and primitive methods.
The ultra-modern: “Newfangled bombs, thermite,
delayed-action fuses and the like, which are capable
of greater destruction than any bombs hitherto used in
war.” The primitive: “No proper trenches. No ord-
nance or survey maps—Spain has never been surveyed.
The only maps available are the tourist road maps put
out by the big French companies Michelin and Taride.
It is a terrible thing to see an artillery or infantry
operation in open country being carried on by a
man who is only able to feel his way by means of a
crude tourist road map. The ‘lines’ are very rough,
there is no regular front at all. What you get is a
number of concentrations at various points, with big
gaps in between.” Three-quarters of the movements
in the recent Leftist Aragon retreat took place “with-
out the opposing infantrymen coming into contact
at all.”
“My general impression,” concluded Sheean, “is
that Italy and Germany will have to make a renewed
effort, a further expenditure of men, money and
material, if they hope to win this war. The resistance
of the Spanish [Leftist] people is incalculable.”
That Punch-drunk War Scare.
(Reporting the Czechoslovakian bother of a few
weeks back Australian press cables reached extremes of
sensationalism. Sydney “Sun” came out with the
screaming poster: “Britain, France, Russia Warn
Germany.” Sydney “Labor Daily” cable (24/5 / ’3B>:
“The British Government came forward with definite
eleventh-hour assurances that if war broke out it would
fight on the side of France, Czechoslovakia and the
Soviet.” The items here condensed are from London
“Daily Express” leaders of May 23, 24 and 28.]
The “Daily Herald” makes the statement that
the British Government intervened in the Czecho-
slovak crisis, warning Berlin not to count on Britain
standing neutral.
That statement is completely untrue.
“Tension is eased,” says the Prime Minister.
The question now arises: How great was the
tension? And the answer is: Not half as great as
was supposed.
Calm words were helpful when hot words could
only have done harm.
that concerns the British people now is:
Will there be war? And the answer is, once more.
No!
The elements of an explosion are not present now.
Germany is unwilling to fight. Maybe the Ger-
mans are truculent, but Hitler is neither able nor
ready to engage in war. Nor do the Russians want
to march. (The Czechoslovak crisis is 90 per cent,
a German-Russian clash.) The Red Army has lost
too many of its leaders by execution lately to be
anxious to take the field.
France is for peace. Once the most warlike,
now almost the most pacific people in Europe, the
French are well-intentioned towards all nations.
As for the Czechs, though some think they are
looking for trouble—and those thinkers are not only
to be found in Tory quarters—the Czechs are the
least important factor in the Czech crisis.
One nation certainly will not be in it. Our own.
Britain will follow her peaceful pursuits and
occupations. We threaten no one. We are not going
to be threatened.
[Under the heading “Europe Saved by Poland,”
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” did its bit in that punch-
drunk scare: “A dispatch from Warsaw to Berlin saved
the peace of Europe.” In a leader (25/5/’3B) the
“D.T.” stated: “The factor that finally persuaded Hitler
to hold his hand was Poland’s threat of intervention.”
On that same date London “Times” published this •
(condensed) report from its Warsaw correspondent.]
The “Illustrowany Kuryer Codzienny,” a pro-
Government organ having the largest circulation of
any Polish newspaper, published to-day a statement
attributed to “political circles,” but which is accepted
as an official announcement. “Poland.” the statement
runs, “faithful to the alliance with France, will always
fulfil her engagements deriving from this alliance, and
will go to the assistance of France in case she is
attacked by any other Power. At the same time,
however, these political circles consider that Poland
cannot allow herself to be drawn into any conflict'
to which France herself might be drawn because of
her alliances with other countries, and especially if
the polities of those countries have been a cause of
concern to Poland.”
With Article XVI of the League Covenant now
regarded as all but dead, and the contingency of
France being directly attacked as extremely remote,
the alliance virtually leaves Poland a free hand in
foreign affairs —and especially in Central and Eastern
Europe, where her interests and aims are by no
means always identical with those of France. It
seems clear from the foregoing statement, therefore,
that in the contingency of German intervention in
Czechoslovakia, whether France became involved or
not, the Polish Government would retain complete
freedom of action —even to the extent of benefiting
territorially or otherwise from a dismemberment of
Czechoslovakia.
The Menace of Fear.
[Newspaper sensationalism, in which minor inter-
national differences are continually enlarged into “inevit-
able-war” crises, screamed out by scare headlines and
scare posters, goes on embedding deeper in people’s
minds the fears and mutual distrust bluntly dealt with
by Beverley Baxter, M.P., in this article condensed from
London “Sunday Graphic.”]
Let us pay it proper homage. It is to Fear that
Dictators, Presidents, Premiers and Chancellors bow
the knee to-day.
There is no secret about it. From the North
Sea to the Mediterranean and the Baltic, we are all
staring at Germany and sharpening our knives for
“Der Tag.”
And what about Germany? Undoubtedly she is
proud of her restored prestige and the immense
material achievements of Nazi-Socialism. But do you
think she is not counting the cost or do you doubt
that she is not gripped by Fear?
The isolation of Germany is more complete than
in 1914. Germany looks at France with her superb
army and indomitable spirit. She sees Britain with
her vast resources of wealth and raw materials and
man-power, a Britain arming to the teeth. She sees
Russia as the imponderable nation that cannot be
conquered even if defeated.
Do you think there is no fear in Berlin? Europe
is in the grip of fear. In the name of pity and sanity,
can nothing be done about it? One man alone has
emerged courageous and clear-sighted enough to face
the truth. Neville Chamberlain has dared to come
into the open and ask Italy and Germany what is the
cause of the estrangement between ourselves and them.
Already the tension has been relaxed between Italy and
Britain. That miserable chapter of vulgar taunts and
silly posturings (and not all on one side) is over.
The conversations with Germany will be more
difficult, for the spirit of the German is arrogant, his
pride has been deeply hurt. Yet he must know that
war would mean the certain annihilation of Germany,
Powerful as Germany is in man-power and tactical
position, she cannot live without friendship and the
confidence of other nations. We must offer Germany
a bridge between herself and the Western democracies.
That would lead to understanding, and only under-
standing can annihilate fear.
Can we abolish Fear? That is the greatest and
most pressing task before this nation to-day. To
do that we must clear our minds of hatred and ignor-
ance, the begetters of fear.
Coffee and Chips.
(From London “Daily Express” leader column.)
Chile, which has just left the League of Nations,
showing some sense, destroys three million gallons
of “surplus” wine, showing that the sense was just
a flash in the pan.
Brazil burns one hundred thousand bags of coffee
per day. Each bag contains 1321 b. You pay 2s. 3d.
a pound for it.
Britain fines farmers for growing too many
potatoes, though the price is up a penny a pound.
As you walk along at night in the world’s richest
capital a beggar whines, “Spare us a few coppers for
a cup of coffee and some chips, mister.”
Work for Dr. Freud.
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” leader comment on
Dr. Sigmund Freud’s move from Vienna to London:
Father of psycho-analysis, 82-year-old Sigmund
Freud, escapes from Vienna to London, tra-
ditional home of the exile.
Freud has made Vienna a synonym for modern
psychology.
But he is. a Jew.
So his books are burned, his money seized.
And he is forced to leave the city he has lived
in all his life, and honored.
Another milestone in Europe’s flight from
reason.
Cable dated June 7, published in other Aus-
tralian dailies:—
Miss Anna Freud says that Dr. Freud was not
badly treated in Vienna.
Miss Freud, who practises psycho-analysis in
London, said: “We were among the few Jews
who were decently treated in Vienna. It is not
true that we were confined to our house. We
were free to go as we pleased.”
His son, Mr. Ernst Freud, who practises as an
architect in London, said: “The general treatment
of Jews has been abominable, but my father was
an exception.”
Dr. Freud, as leading authority on psycho-
analysis, would find Sydney “D.T.” mentality the
phobia case of his career.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Jeanne d’Arc never looked likely to
catch Electron in the last race at Warwick
Farm on Saturday week, but she ran well
enough to prompt the Ring to cramp her
price for the Rosebery Handicap at the
Sydney course of that name on Wednes-
day. It offered twos, and not much of
that. The useful mare won, but if King
Gee (6 to 1) had been better placed in
the earlier part of the race, instead of
being tenth in a field of 11, he might
have had the advantage of the length
that separated them at the finish. Good
judges backed King Gee for the 1936
Epsom, but the nag went wrong, and
has since been reckoned unsound. Some
of the bookmakers seem very anxious to
lay Deputy Ruler. That rejuvenated
prad’s showing was so bad that the
stewards became inquisitive. They repri-
manded the rider (Parsons).
Mala started at Rosebery in the first
division of the Flying Handicap. He
had 9st. 61b., and Alan Cooper and his
friends backed the very expensive pur-
chase at 5 to 2 and a bit better. He
failed to get a place, victory going to a
rank outsider called Bellicose (25 to 1),
who streaked home lengths ahead of the
runner-up, Kelso’s honest mare Mis-
nomer. Bellicose is Queensland-bred,
being by Bachelor’s Persse-Bell of Crecy,
and was ridden by one of the Watterson
brothers, who have been rather successful
lately.
$
There was a decided fall in tote
receipts at Warwick Farm on Saturday
—an effect, no doubt, of the gruelling
administered to backers at the same
course a week before. It was felt in the
Ring also, and there was some growling
in that quarter. As it happened, the
reduced volume of betting was a bless-
ing in disguise for the bagmen, since
every winner was at a short price.
One punter who didn’t play light was
Tancred, the butcher. He and his asso-
ciates put in heavily on Country Party
in the Homestead Handicap: two wagers
of £lOOO to £4OO were noted, and there
were others of £5OO to £2OO. Naturally
Country Party started favorite, while
Highborn, a model of consistency, eased
to 7 to 2.
The Country Party commission went
west; the chestnut was beaten three fur-
longs from home and missed a place.
Highborn, vigorously ridden by Darby
Munro, crept up to Bachelor King after
that three-year-old had cut down the
pacemaker, Electron, and won hand-
somely, Electron being a poor third.
Highborn carried Bst. 91b. —a fair weight
for a three-year-old lacking in substance.
Mohican was handicapped at 9st. 101 b.
for the George’s River Handicap. Rus-
sell, the trainer, put up young Ryan, and
thus got the benefit of a 51b. allowance.
Ryan handled the Moabite horse like
a veteran. He sat still in the early stages
and made his run at the half-mile.
Mohican came home like the good horse
he is, and in the end defeated King Gee,
but that animal was unlucky—he came
with a great run from a bad position.
The pacemaker, Brazandf, and Cid
(each 7 to 1) ran a dead heat for third.
Disalto, the favorite, finished twelfth in
a field of 14. He had to be bustled early,
and didn’t like it, nor did Rex. Both are
good gallopers when doing their job on
the bit. Mohican was backed from tens
to fives, King Gee from tens to sixes.
Racing has improved Strathisla’s
stamina, but the son of Brazen had to be
ridden out with the whip to beat Pub-
licity in the Welter Handicap. He started
at 7 to 2. Percy Stewart Dawson’s horse
displayed plenty of determination, and,
with Darby Munro’s assistance, scored
in a style that suggested that he will do
better over a longer journey. Roi Sion
came home strongly in third place.
F. Higgins, a Kensington farrier, gave
a creditable display of horsemanship in
winning the Amateur Cup on Nebraska,
who started favorite at 9 to 2. Nebraska
was on the rails and was out of the
barrier like a greyhound. Tarban joined
her in front, but Nebraska shook him
off and led for home by lengths. She
was stopping in the straight, but had
sufficient in reserve to hold off Judicial
by half a length, Tarban being a poor
third.
Bofield (5 to 1) and Gilla (5 to 4)
could not be separated as they passed
the judge in the fillies’ division of the
Nursery. A.J.C. committeeman E. J.
Watt’s Pin Money was third, Ilona fourth
and Peter Pan’s sister Tinker Bell, a plain
brown, fifth.
• i •
The colts’ division went to the hitherto
unlucky Lord Valentine (3 to 1). He
was bred by his owner, Mrs. C. Ruwald.
Cragite was second and Sir Diac third.
Brigand, the favorite, led by four lengths
at the turn, but stopped to nothing.
# * * *
A nailing good colt is Petruchio, by
Bullhead-Lovebox. At Randwick on
Monday he carried 9st. 91b. and broke
up a big field, running seven furlongs in
lmin. 24fsec. Respirator, favorite at
7 to 2 (Petruchio was at 9 to 2), was badly
served at the start, and came home well
to finish third —Exactor was second —but
he could not have beaten Petruchio, who
is trained by George Price.
J. T. Jamieson and his friends tried to
get their Respirator losses back on Lynch
Law in the June Plate. They had to take
short odds, 2 to 1 being the best; and
the bookmakers got their money again.
Lynch Law was among the early leaders,
but he couldn’t go the pace set by
BraZandt, and that fellow also subsided.
An exciting finish between three mares
saw Bonnie Legion (14 to 1) win by half
a head from Moaenza (25 to 1), whose
advantage over Early Bird (7 to 1) was a
“short” head. The time for the six fur-
longs was lmin. 10|sec.
Strongly ridden by Darby Munro over
the last furlong of the Winter Plate
(1 mile 5 fur.), Gay Knight won nicely
from Silenus and Bachelor King. Minne-
sota, Tapestry and Gold Spark had turns
in front till they swung for home, where
Munro took Gay Knight up from third-
last. Silenus, lying last most of the way,
couldn’t overhaul him.
Seventeen lined up for the last race
on the card, the Exeter Handicap of a
mile. It went to Sedunum, ridden by
Bartle, with Normandy and Red Thespian
in the places. Normandy had charge
from the start, with Red Thespian never
further back than third and looking the
winner when Normandy went wide in
the straight. Normandy beat him off,
however, only to go down by a head
to Sedunum, who came late on the
scene, fairly lifted to the front by Bartle
in the last few strides.
* * * *
It is doubtful whether Pamelus will
do any more inter-State travelling.
Favorably as he was handicapped, he
was taken out of the Doomben New-
market last week. His withdrawal de-
cided the owner of Aurie’s Star to go
on with his candidature for the Doomben
Newmarket and to let him make the
whole journey from S.A. by motor-
float. Travelling must agree with Aurie’s
Star —it does with a good many sprinters.
* * * *
Ajax has been nominated for the
Moonee Valley, Caulfield, Melbourne
and Williamstown Cups, the Cantala and
Eclipse Stakes, and the Toorak IJandi-
cap; but not for the Epsom or the
Metropolitan—which N.S.W. people will
regard as a pity. Hua and Avenger figure
among the Metrop. nominations. It is
a race that should suit Hua far more
than the Melbourne Cup. Allowing that
he was not himself when he failed in
the V.R.C. St. Leger, the Heroic colt
subsided too suddenly and too far from
home in the Cup race at Flemington to
support the theory that he is a two-miler.
* * * *
Three Grand National candidates,
Burramit, Maritime and Royal Mail,
competed in the Maiden Hurdle at Ascot
(Melbourne) on June 8. None shaped
well enough to warrant respect in the big
event at Flemington. Royal Mail wasn’t
prominent when he fell. Burramit, even
with the services of such a master horse-
man as Thompson, finished far back.
Allowed to go out at 33 to 1, Maritime
ran a poor second.
Though favorite at twos, Mamburdi
was described beforehand by his trainer,
O’Neill, as “just a horse.” Many owners
would be glad of a novice jumper half
so promising. N. Bracken had orders
not to let his mount hit the front until
two hurdles from home. If allowed to
stride along Mamburdi would have won
by a street. Mamburdi is held on lease
from W. P. Mein, on whose behalf he
was bought as a yearling by W. Burke.
Being by Great Star from Sweet Mar-
guerite, he is a half-brother to Sweet
Memories. Bred on such lines, a gelding
rising six years old ought to go far at
the jumping game.
With Tuhitarata and Dark Saint
scratched, Pretend, a Gay Lothario colt
in Harry Freedman’s stable, was made
an odds-up pop in the juvenile event.
He whipped-round at the start, refused
to gallop when straightened and virtually
took no part in the race. The crowd in
the Leger reserve made an angry
demonstration, but the stewards rightly
exonerated Breasley. Winner was The
Decoration (Great Star-Loveliness), who
started at 20 to 1 and paid £6 6s. for
ss. on the tote. She led all the way and
reached the judge half a length in ad-
vance of an even longer-priced candidate,
Denhill, a daughter of Denis Boy.
Colourist, a sprinter of South Aus-
tralian origin, tried to run away with the
first division of the Maiden Handicap.
He led into the straight by three lengths,
but tired coming up the rise and was
beaten by both Elbasan (Albanian-Star
Water) and Jevington Maid. Elbasan
had receded from fours to 7 to 1. Colour-
ist is in a big betting stable and figured
at 6 to 4. Voitre rode an admirable race
on Elbasan, who may prove useful in
moderate company. The trainer, Fred
Garland, won a number of races with
Little Millie, dam of Palfresco. Pal-
fresco was leased to C. Brown at the
time of his Caulfield Cup triumph.
Brown had a belated turn of suc-
cess with Mate o’ Mine, who, like
Palfresco, was sired by Son o’ Mine.
Opening at twos, Mate o’ Mine eased
to 7 to 2 because of a rush for Surat,
from the stable of Joe Mulcahy. Surat
had every chance, but faded out when
whips began to crack. Coming at the
right end Mate o’ Mine scored with
lengths to spare. Second place went to
W. R. Kemball’s hurdler Masterton, who
returned £1 13s. for a “dollar” in the
place pool. Forest March, a close third,
was quoted at 100 to 4.
George Scott won a Doncaster with
Simeon’s Fort and ran third in Peter Pan’s
second Melbourne Cup with La Trobe.
When he bought Kanupa (Night Raid-
Gay Round) in M.L. as a yearling Scott
hoped for mighty deeds from this close
relative to Phar Lap. Kanupa, who is
verging on five years, registered his first
success when he squeezed home by a
neck in the second division of the Maiden
Handicap at Ascot. An advantage of
three lengths obtained at barrier rise
enabled Kanupa to stall off Carrarice
(7 to 2). Winner’s price (6 to 4) did
not give the owner much scope for
recovering previous losses.
The 15-year-old son of George Har-
rison, a former leading lightweight, led
from post to finish on his dad’s horse,
Valka, in the Huntingdon Handicap.
This was one of several good results
for ringmen, 14 to 1 being on offer
against Valka. Minor place-getters,
Beaustone (6 to 1) and Beau Spear (20
to 1), should soon be in Winning-street.
* * * *
Flavikin failed very badly in the Trial
Hurdle at Moonee Valley, for which he
was favorite.' “Well, he’s no chance in
the National,” punters said. However,
trainer J. A. Fox explained that the
Flaviol gelding had not raced over the
battens for two months, and found the
soft going strange after the flintlike
tracks at Broken Hill.
The race went to Laveur (eights,) who
vanquished Peerie (10 to 1) by half a
length after a fine struggle. Giant Killer,
three lengths off, would have been a
closer third but for losing ground near
the bend. All the placegetters hold
National engagements ; and so do Great
Bear, Roist, Third Star and Trentwood.
When he fell close to home Roist was
travelling fairly; the others referred to
were dismal disappointments.
Laveur (Silvius-Lave-a-Fond) was pre-
sented by H. N. Leonard to Joe Mul-
cahy and is raced by that trainer s son.
He is a brother to Lautus, trained by
Dick Bradfield.
The most noteworthy feature of the
sport at the Valley was the uproar over
Dunloe being adjudged winner of the
middle-distance Deep Creek Handicap.
John Henry, the man in the box, decided
in favor of Dunloe by half a head from
Beau Ham, with Somerset a head off.
Many spectators believed that Beau Ham
had won; some even maintained that
the mare was only third. In the long
run it didn’t matter, as the stewards up-
held a protest for interference and dis-
qualified Martin, the rider of Dunloe,
for six months on the ground of foul
riding.
Dunloe was always favorite, though
she receded from threes to 4 to 1, conse-
quent on heavy support for Stevenage
(9 to 2), with Somerset and the Sydney
prad Jovial Son at fives each. Best price
about Beau Ham (Beau Fils-Peripatetic)
was eights; he firmed two points.
The racing career of Dunloe (Great
Star-Sweet Echo) ended with her Valley
outing. She had been in full training
for 11 months, with a let-up of only
three weeks. Guy Raymond, who con-
ducts the St. Albans stud in conjunction
with H. B. Ranken, intends mating her
with Gay Lothario.
Having prepared Simeon’s Fort for a
Doncaster Handicap victory ten years
ago, M. T. McGrath would feel par-
ticular satisfaction in landing the
Burnewang, Handicap for juveniles with
Tuhitarata, a son of the English-bred
stallion. Like Hostile, a Cantala Stakes
winner, and other progeny of Simeon’s
Fort, this gritty black colt is on the small
side.
Keith Voitre’s conspicuous energy en-
abled Tuhitarata (9 to 4) to wear down
Sir Rona (9 to 2) and defeat that rival
by half a head. Veiled Prophet (fives)
was a head behind Harry Freedman’s
representative. Pat Quinlan planked a
good deal of boodle on Quinnat, but
the Perinthus gelding finished weakly.
Near the close of the afternoon Voitre
met with a painful accident. While at the
post on Eastern Spot for the Travancore
Trial he was kicked on the right foot by
Komachi. The former M.L. jockey had
to be lifted from the saddle and con-
veyed to the casualty room.
In this race Mate o’ Mine (5-to-2
favorite) put up an astounding perform-
ance. Flat-footed when the barrier rose,
he was five lengths behind the nearest of
14 rivals passing the stand on a
journey. Mate o’ Mine travelled at light-
ning pace along the back stretch and
almost hit the front with three furlongs
to go. He tired (naturally) and ran
fourth.
Rivette (7 to 2), who scored hand-
somely from Komachi (sevens) and Only
One (12 to 1), is by Ronsard from Riv,
an Ascot Thousand winner and the
champion Vic. pony of her day. Only
One, a three-year-old colt by Limond, is
on the road to success.
If he had not shied from the whip
Othello (Heroic-Desdemona) must have
won the Chandos Handicap. Favorite at
threes, he lost by a neck to Comic March
(sixes). Othello cost 1700gns. as a year-
ling. Much more than this —to be exact,
4100gns.—was paid for Tudor King, the
imported colt by Bosworth that finished
far behind Othello. It being a three-
year-old event Tudor King was at a dis-
tinct disadvantage. By English time he
wouldn’t be three years old until January
next.
Erua, in the Tuhitarata livery, was all
the rage for the Greenvale Welter, but
M. T. McGrath couldn’t pull off a double
for J. Jameson, his M.L. patron. Erua
(threes) finished a fair third, Poldean (14
to 1) shaking off Beau Spear (fours) by a
long head.
❖ ❖ ❖
Form pointed to fravarino in the
A.R.C. Birthday Cup, for he had won
two good races in the previous fortnight
and had proved his capacity to stay the
distance, a mile and five furlongs; ' yet
Black Mac, though a failure in Adelaide,
was preferred to him by the generality
of punters. Navarino won by a street
from two outsiders, Yarro and The Riff;
Black Mac was unplaced. Navarino is
an aged gelding by Manfred-Grecian
Queen.
o Continued on page 32.)
FOR ROSEHILL.
Three-year-old Handicap: Rex ;
next, Normandy.
Dundas Handicap: Misnomer ;
next, Moonray.
June Handicap: Country Party ;
next, Perimond or Mainlaw.
Parramatta Mile: Roi Sion ; next,
Autoland.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Richmond Handicap: Jovial Son;
next, Irving.
Cambria Welter: Silver Reign;
next, Barham.
Rosny Plate: Pamelus; next,
Night Gang.


“I may be
difficult . .
O
y
m
1
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
iScrew cap flasks of convenient size on sale everywhere at popular prices •
I’ve reached an age when it
pays to discriminate. When
one’s younger it’s rather different;
hut at my time of life I’d rather
do without than put up with
second best.
And it’s the same thing w ith
whisky. I may seem difficult; but
when I can get a whisky that’s as
soft and smooth as a fine liqueur,
do you blame me if I always insist
on White Horse?”
For instance, I am fond of fish,
but it must be a good variety and
be prepared by a real chef —not
just fish . . . you follow me?


Take the Nightmare
out of
Night Driving
with
BOSCH
HEADLIGHT INSERTS
Sole Agents: PYROX PTY., LTD.,
'97 Palmer Street, East Sydney.
Position Vacant.
WANTED—STIPENDIARY STEWARD.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the post of
Stipendiary Steward to the Port Elizabeth (South
Africa) Turf Club. The duties are those apper-
taining to the position as referred to in Rules
1, 14, and 25 of the Rules of Racing of the
Jockey Club of South Africa. Salary £6OO per
annum. Applications in sealed envelopes
marked “Applications for post of Stipendiary
Steward” should reach the undersigned not
later than July 15, 1938. Applicants are hereby
notified that should they attempt directly or in-
directly to canvas any of the Stewards of the
Port Elizabeth Turf Club in connection with
their applications they will be disqualified.—
E. J. BOWLES, Secretary, P.O. Box 164, Port
Elizabeth, South Africa.
We will send You a
FREE Demonstration
Sample.
of AMAZING RE-NU LIQUID
NU-METAL. Just deposit thru
Plug openings on Pistons.
Reconditions while-u-drive.
Saves REBORE, ENDS PISTON
SLAP, RATTLES, NOISES,
OIL, PETROL WASTE, RE-
STORES NEW POWER, COMPRESSION, TOP
SPEED, ZIP, etc. GUARANTEED GOOD for 10,000
MILES. HARMLESS FINEST ENGINES. Send for
Trial Tube. Price, 6/6, or we send C.O.D. Anyone
can use it; 20 other lines. Free Samples. Agents
required.
RE-NU LTD.,
Opp. Richmond Station, Melbourne.
(Est. 1932.)
fd
f
df
Tropical
Outfitters
IKE BROTHERS LIMITED,
1 of Queen Street, Brisbane,
specialise in all Tropical Wear
for men . . .
Write, or, when visiting Brisbane, call
at the Leading Men’s Store and obtain
particulars of Pike’s Tropical attire, in-
cluding Suits, Helmets, Underwear, etc.
Pike Brothers
LIMITED,
Of Queen Street
Brisbane
Ins and Outs
Two days of the first Test match at
Trent Bridge, Nottingham, showed that
the English batting is better and the Aus-
tralian bowling worse than the previous
part of the tourists’ programme indicated.
Hammond winning the toss, Barnett and
Hutton gave their side a magnificent
start. Each had a bit of luck: Barnett
was missed by Brown in the slips off the
last ball of McCormick’s first over, and
the fifth ball of the express’s second over
was chopped by Hutton on his wicket,
but did not shift the stumps. After that,
Barnett knocked the bowling all over the
place. He had 98 at lunch and the
steadier Hutton 61, the score being 169.
Fleetwood-Smith, O’Reilly and Ward
were “pie” for the batsmen. The 200 went
up in 145 minutes; then rain sent the
party back to the pavilion for 10 minutes.
It did the pitch no harm, but at 215 Mc-
Cormick —using a new ball now —bowled
Barnett, who had made 126 in 170
minutes. His innings was characterised
by grand driving, and he hit 18 fours.
Edrich, coming in, saw Hutton get to
100 and go, next ball, l.b.w. to Fleetwood-
Smith. Hutton had been in for 200
minutes, and hit 14 fours, chiefly on the
on-side. By realising 219, his partnership
with Barnett established a record for
openers in England.
Australian hopes revived when O’Reilly
dismissed Edrich (5) and Hammond
(26), each clean bowled. It was three for
244 and four for 281, and the rate of
scoring had slowed down. Paynter and
Compton restored it when they had
played themselves in—the youngster had
to overcome very palpable nervousness
—and in the last half-hour they had
bowlers and fieldsmen dead-weary.
A six, driven into the pavilion, off
Ward, took Paynter to 50 (100 minutes).
Compton, after taking half an hour to
make 5, added 47 in 50 minutes. At the
end of the day it was 4 for 422: Paynter
75, Compton 69 ; O’Reilly 2 for 106, Mc-
Cormick 1 for 73, Fleetwood-Smith 1 for
90, Ward 0 for 108, McCabe 0 for 24.
Worse was to come on Saturday. Half
an hour’s play saw 49 put on, and within
three-quarters of an hour each batsman
had got his century. Then Compton was
caught by Badcock for 102, a grand
innings ; 60 of the runs had come from
boundary strokes and 97 had been made
in 108 minutes. The fifth-wicket stand
had produced 206—another item for the
record-book.
With Ames in and batting briskly,
fieldsmen and bowlers alike looked de-
moralised. Ames stayed for 55 minutes,
making 46 (6 for 577); Verity and Sin-
field did little, but kept up their wickets
long enough for Paynter to make his 200
—the first Englishman to do it in a Test
on an English ground. The left-hander
was 216 and the score 8 for 658 (another
English record) when Hammond closed
the innings. Paynter had been in for 325
minutes, had hit a six, a five and 26
fours, and had given no actual chance.
And Mr. Mailey thought it a mistake to
play him instead of Fishlock!
On Saturday, as on Friday, every
trundler was collared. F.-Smith wound
up with 4 for 153, O’Reilly with 3 for
164 and McCormick 1 for 108 ; off Mc-
Cabe 64 were smacked, and off Ward
142. Grimmett, watching the massacre
from the press box, must have smiled
sardonically. The fielding was ragged,
though Barnett kept down the byes—
among 27 extras there was only one.
The Australians went in for defensive
batting. Brown seemed confident enough,
if slow, but Fingleton pottered about
and was out at 34—skittled by Wright for
9. The same bowler might have had
Bradman c. and b. for 7, but dropped
a catch which, though hot and low,
should have been taken. The skipper
was unwontedly shaky at that stage ; in
the same over another ball, a leg-break,
nearly took his wicket. However, he kept
going; though missed by Edrich, off
Fames, when 47, he got his fifty—sl
actually—in 90 minutes. Then he was
snapped up behind the sticks off Sinfield ;
and the crowd went off its rocker.
McCabe began with a fourer off Sin-
field, but soon lost Brown, c. Ames, b.
Fames—3-49-134. Brown had played
the rock for 150 minutes. With four
runs added by McCabe (19) —Ward was
his partner —stumps were drawn. Two
days to go and the weather uncertain!
* * * *
“Aigburth”: It is like unrolling a page
of history to read that Major C. B. Grace,
youngest son of “W.G.,” has died, charac-
teristically enough, while playing cricket.
A glance at Wisden’s shows the part this
family has played in cricket. The list
includes the original Dr. Alfred Grace,
who played for Gloucester, and his
brother “H.M.,” who begat, with the
assistance of Mrs. H.M. —herself a keen
and capable cricketer —“E.M.,” “W.G.”
“ There's no doubt about this tennis for improvin' the figer!"
and “G.F.” “W.G.” had another son,
“W.G., Jr.,” who played for Cambridge
and Gloucester. “C. 8.” was in the Clif-
ton Eleven, but no doubt his army duties
prevented him showing whether or not
he had the genius of his father and
uncles.
* * * *
“Two Blues”: The announcement that
Yardley had been given the vacancy in
the first Test selection caused by the
injury to Hardstaff reminds one that it
is rare for a university blue to catch
the eye of an England selector while still
at his university. The only two I can
call to mind were A. G. Steel, of the
1882-83 team in Australia, and Norman
Druce, who came here with Stoddart and
Ranji in 1897-98.
* * * *
“Witherin’ Tyke”: Some of the cricket
stuff sent over by English cable burblers
is the limit. One expert informed a
listening earth that in the match with
Essex Fingleton “sustained a contraction
of the leg muscles” and had to go off
for treatment. In writer’s time that in-
fliction was known as cramp, and a vigor-
ous rubbing by a friend on the sideline
or at the boundary, according as the
game was football or cricket, was the
only treatment thought necessary.
* * *
“Tenth Slip”: Cabled that ’keeper
Walker, who broke a finger before leav-
ing Australia, but was nevertheless
selected, has again taken a knock which
will keep him out of the game for six
weeks. No ’keeper with a broken finger
should have been considered for such a
tour. Walker’s inclusion at the expense
of the Queenslander Tallon, a better
’keeper and batsman, looks sillier than
evor ’
*. * hc *
In the match against Essex, only a
fighting shot by McCabe, 50, prevented
a horrid crash in the Australians’ second
innings, which closed for 153 (Nichols
6-25, Fames 1-24). Essex in reply could
wL m a a 7
t Hv d Q7 r S i mith 5-8 ’ and A
r ha won by 97 runs. * *
“Cash Amateur”: If, as daily-paper
writers assert, Britain was stricken dumb
when Hammond was appointed captain
of England, what must have happened
when the Marylebone diehards tol-
lowed that up by making the ex-
professional skipper of the Gentlemen
of EngJand for the match at Lord s
which follows the first Test? Hammond
will have a fine side to lead in this game:
it includes Wyatt, Stephenson, Wilcox,
Yardley and Chalk, all of whom have
done well against the tourists. Of the
unknowns on this side, Valentine is a
joint-skipper of Kent and a batsman of
note, Meyer is a Somerset amateur and
Gibb is the Cambridge ’keeper who
batted well against the visitors in the
match with the Light Blues.
Footbrawl
Of the three V.F.L. games played on
Saturday, the Collingwood-St. Kilda
tussle attracted most attention. A great
crowd saw Collingwood kick 16-23 to
the seasiders’ 14-9. Melbourne downed
North Melbourne, I§-14 to 14-8, and
Geelong, 14-23, beat a good Essendon
team, 12-12.
Brunswick and Brighton, first and
second teams in the Vic. Association
competition, each scored wins on Satur-
day. Brunswick beat Oakleigh, 23-25 to
18-9, and Brighton accounted for Wil-
liamstown, 19-12 to 13-12.
•is * * *
N.S.W. teams played three representa-
tive Rugby matches at Sydney on Satur-
day, and won all three. At North Syd-
ney the Victorian Union men ran the
Sydneysiders to two points, 14-12 ; they
scored three tries to two, and with more
accurate kicking for goal would have
won handsomely. It was a rather ragged
game. The Welshmen got plenty of the
ball from scrums and lineouts, but, dur-
ing the first half particularly, it rarely
travelled far along the three-quarters.
Handling was bad, and both wingers and
inside men were more intent on running
at speed than on catching the ball.
At Parramatta the Queenslanders led
6-3 (a try and a p.g. to a p.g.) in the first
half, but could do nothing right after-
wards. N.S.W. added a couple of tries,
one converted, and ran out 11-6. The
Queensland full-back, Walker, was largely
responsible for keeping the margin so
small.
The Maoriland Leaguers, though
much the lighter team, had an 8-3 lead
at “lemons.” Early in the second spell
they lost a man, and N.S.W. ran up 22
points to four. So it was 25-12 at the
bell (seven tries to two).
University and Gordon had their post-
poned premiership game as a North Syd-
ney preliminary. It finished 19-14 in
Uni.’s favor, and put the Students level
with North at the top of the table.
* # * *
“Cottesloe”: Westralian football heads
are quick in the uptake. Recently a
motion came before the
Victorian F.L., that
champion pincher of
players from other States,
aimed at abolition of the
rule requiring a “trans-
ferred” player to live 12
months in his new State
before being eligible to
play. The matter was
put aside, but was re-
ceived with general favor
at the League meeting.
The Westralians, notic-
ing this, have passed a
law that no player of
theirs shall be granted a
clearance to another State
until he has been two years
in his new quarters. West-
ralians are shortly to visit
Melbourne, and Victorian
club scouts were preparing
for a great kidnapping.
* * *
“Sta n and Off”: N.S.W.
Rugby Union has at last been
made sure of Sydney C.G.
for its three Sydney matches
with the All-Blacks. N.S.W.
will play the visitors on July
16, and the first match with
Australia takes place on July
23. The third game will be
the third Test on August 13,
the second having been
played in the meantime at
Brisbane on August 6.
❖ * ❖
“Old Q.”: When the
N.S.W.R.U. told the Queens-
landers in conference that they “could
not approve” of the Maroons re-
admitting the Queensland League crack
Hickey, the Bananalanders meekly
acquiesced. On the same day the
N.S.W.R.U. Council was informed at a
meeting that League and Union players
were mixing indiscriminately in mid-
week Union fixtures. The Queensland
backdown was influenced by a threat
that Queenslanders might be cut out of
international games and tours unless the
Q.R.U. came to heel. That bluff should
have been called.
* * * *
“Black and White”: Sydney Western
Suburbs R.U. footballers recently in-
curred the derision of their less up-to-
date contemporaries by imitating the
training methods of some of the British
professional Soccer clubs, which include
eurhythmic and muscle-loosening exercises
like those used by the ladies of the ballet.
The derisive spirit came to a head when
just before a match between W.S. and
Manly the captain of the latter presented
the W.S. skipper with a bunch of pansies.
W.S. replied to the impertinence in the
only way the Manly “hearties” could be
expected to appreciate—they inflicted on
them an unholy hiding (37 to 9). During


Vickers
ORANGE COCKTAIL
Here's a new and delicious
appetiser try it tonight.
Take one-third glass of
Vickers Gin, two-thirds glass
of Italian-type Vermouth,
one slice of orange, then
shake well and strain into a
cocktail glass.
WICKERS
T GIN
Qmtom mux I/JO
Uou
ze
“-tie in a.
MIM
C/ ct d ’ *“* * •*>
“•< S’"/”*," *■«'-'•
i
T n n PleX , non ' s plinter safety ,/ a „ in
o// saloon wind-screens (in fu r
models in all windows). ° * Ux '
t'rc 30 feet. ’ P '*' *° stanii ' st lll
=}€““ X-rjbs
THE Hillman Minx gives
you all of motoring’s finest
safety features at a price
you can afford to pay. Giant
long life tyres eliminate dangers
of skidding and punctures. All-
steel “easi-clean” wheels couple
beauty with safety. Bumpers
are full width and safety sprung.
Box girder electric welded chas-
sis frame gives a bridge girder
base to the pressed steel body
(fabricated in Australia), while
a steel bulkhead insulates the
engine and front compartment.
Safety, however, is only one of
the proven features Minx offers
you. You also get big car per-
formance, appearance, style and
comfort at less than one penny
per mile (vide recent R.A.C.A.
test).
Minx popularity is directly due
to the straight-out value for
money it offers the motorist of
moderate means. A Minx is easy
to buy and economical to run,
yet it embodies every worth
while feature of modern
motoring.
Official figures issued recently
show that of all the 10 h.p. cars
sold throughout the United
Kingdom 33.7 % of the total
were Minx.
Arrange for a demonstration to-
day.
mm
&
*
222 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
World Exporters:
Victoria:
OVERSEAS MOTORS PTY. LTD.
IV. Australia: Tasmania: N.S.IV.:
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO. D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS JOHN MCGRATH LTD.
900 Hay Street,
Perth,
York Street ,
Launceston.
155 Elizabeth Street
Sydney.
I
RooteS™
Devonshire House, Piccadilly, London.
Queensland:
JOHN MCGRATH LTD.
3 58 Wickham Street,
Valley, Brisbane.
South Australia;
DEVONSHIRE MOTORS LTD
71 Franklin Street,
Adelaide,
Au
Ke
Australian and < N.Z.
Kembla Buildinq,
Representative:
Margaret St.,
C. E. BLAYNEY,
Sydney,
Z
the game about half the jesters required
the attention of the “Zambuks.”
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: The kr.L. Rugby
Leaguers are having a short and sweet
tour of the two League States, the idea
being to cut costs to bedrock for fear
the worst should befall. The team is now
in Queensland, and there plays the State
on the 18th and 25th, with a sandwiched
match, v. a “Selected XIII,” at Too-
woomba on June 22. Incidentally, N.S.W.
Rugby League officials were surprised to
find that the members of the team were
using aluminium studs in their boots, a
general practice in M.L. League circles, it
is claimed. The use of metal in any shape
as studs and the employment of any-
thing else but leather is rigidly banned
by the R.U., League, Soccer and Rules
codes the world over.
Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: The good showing of the
Australians in the amateur champion-
ship of Britain has brought them an in-
vitation to play in the Irish champion-
ships, which start on July 19. Before
that the team will play in the British
open at Sandwich from July 4-8. An
invitation from Ross Somerville, the
Canadian, who met them at Troon in
the amateur tourney, may take them
home via Our Lady of the Snows.
- * * * *
“Talepitcher”: This is the time of the
year when the citizen with his income-
tax returns in view is exercising his
imagination. The N.S.W. and Victorian
golf authorities have generously seen to
it that he gets plenty of practice by
demanding from those who are golfers
a signed declaration that they have not
infringed on the rules of amateurism
before they are allowed to play in
amateur competitions. An imposing
form, something like our old military
friend All, will have to be filled in
before the State amateur championship
entries close.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: The increasing entries
for the British amateur championships
may lead to a revision of the conditions.
At present an amateur is called on for
10 rounds of match play before becom-
ing champion. It is proposed that the
first qualifying round be 36 holes of
stroke play, with the best 64 scores to
carry on with the match part of the tour-
ney. This would start with 18 holes, with
semi-finals and final over 36 holes.
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: Queensland women
golfers will this yedr invade the Austra-
lian championships. The Bananaland
lasses realise that if they are to get any-
where in Australian golf they must im-
prove their form, and there’s no better
way of doing that than to tackle the stars
of the game. A women’s team is going to
Britain next year, leaving about March,
and the Northerners realise that to catch
the eye of the selectors for this they will
have to show the haughty Southerners
something out of the old golfbag.
Miscellaneous
An ominous preliminary to the
cricket match at Nottingham was
an exchange of “all the best” wires
between Bradman and Van Praag,
captain of the Australian dirt-
track motor-cyclists, who were to
have a Test match at Wembley.
The English lads beat them by 63
points to 43.
* * * *
“Shinty”: Yes, the two Sydney
matches of the Indian hockey team
gave the detractors of our Aryan
brother something to think about
(B. 8/6/’3B). The Indians won
the games by 6 and 7 to nil:
they could have made the scores 60
or 70 had they so desired. Remark-
able was the ease with which, though
rarely going out of a trot, they kept the
ball in the family and avoided all at-
tempts by their perspiring pursuers to
take it from them. Since Indian hockey
teams first competed at Olympiads they
have never been defeated.
“Izzat”: A gentle but none the less un-
comfortable comment on Australian
hockey-players was made by manager
Jaganath—they run after instead of with
the ball, and play the man before the pill.
For that, the visitor thinks umpires are
largely to blame.
* * * *
“K.M.”: First-class billiards were
played last week by Empire championship
favorites Kennerley (England) and Mar-
"Try fanin' 'im."
“Cripes , no! That's Wot knocked ’ im out.”
shall (Westralia) when the amateurs ad-
vanced their Melbourne draw. Title-
holder Marshall gave the best exhibition
of the series against Vic. champion Tom
Cleary. With an evening average of 91
for two hours, Marshall piled on a points
total of 2490 —highest to that time —for
the four-hour heat; his best breaks were
335, 323, 294 and 280. Cleary, trailing
1592 points at the end, averaged 18.5 ;
his best break was a 134.
Kennerley’s second appearance was
against Maoriland champion Moses; the
Englishman won as he pleased by 1410
points—23o7 to 897. He averaged a bit
better than 31 ; 269 and 237 were his
best breaks. Between shots Kennerley
frequently had a casual yarn with Bob
Marshall.
With both players obviously out of
the championship running, there wasn’t
much interest in the Maoriland-South
Africa heat between Albertson and Burke.
Albertson won a slow-scoring heat for
Maoriland by 1092 to 896. Tallest break
was Albertson’s 98.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“The First Hundred Years ”
Virginia Bruce, Robert Montgomery.
Booked for Sydney State, this fillum
makes pleasant light entertainment with-
out threatening to bring the roof down.
It might be said that it illustrates
M.-G.-M.’s superiority in picture-making.
Not that it’s an outstanding film nor that
there aren’t other excellent films and con-
scientious firms making them—at present
at least half a dozen Sydney theatres are
drawing crowds with remarkably good
ones all from different studios —but out-
weighing that there is more often than
not a prevalence of generally shoddy pro-
ductions.
Few—if any—of those come from
M.-G.-M. It has a pretty consistent
standard, its flops are few, shoddy stuff
nil, and its films have the stamp of having
been produced with as much attention
given to them as entertainment as to
their value in dahlars. Manufactured
on that basis a film on almost any theme
is rarely a dud.
The lay of this present offering could
hardly be more familiar. Miss BrUce is
theatrical agent earning double her hus-
band’s income and more-or-less support-
ing him; he secures a better position
and wants to support them both. Inevit-
able conflict, then separation, with each
trying to effect a reconciliation by bluff-
ing, then doubling and redoubling each
other’s hand. And familiar as that may
seem, it’s new compared with the artifice
employed to bring them together again.
Deftly handled, that material, hack-
neyed as it is, resolves itself into a more
than bearable film. It is well directed.
It hurdles any too obviously plagiaristic
or soggy patches with touches of comedy,
as when in court the Judge, with all
facts of the case before him, delivers
some wisdom on sex equality and decrees
that the Bruce lady must pay her husband
400 dahlars a month alimony. With that
and other diverting incidents the film
slips along so easily that the final solution
to the tangled affairs arrives almost un-
pectedly and seems practically new.
Montgomery’s husband is quite satis-
factory, though his acting still savors of
his performance in “Night Must Fall.”
It might be argued that that film served
to detail Montgomery’s acting character-
istics to such an extent that he is now
in the awkward position of having his
natural mannerisms recognised mainly as
part of one of his most outstanding
performances.
Miss Bruce also very likeable and
human, and, with excellent support from
such as Warren William, Binnie Barnes,
Alan Dinehart, Harry Davenport and
E. E. Clive, the film goes over as hand-
instead of machine-made entertainment.
“The Crime of Dr. Hallet”
Josephine Hutchinson, Ralph Bellamy.
Notwithstanding the familiarity of its
subject and the fact that Bellamy has
played the martyred medico so often that
his films smell of anaesthetic, this sup-
port helps make Sydney Capitol’s cur-
rent bill entertaining.
Medical melodrama is rapidly assum-
ing the same status as the honest-to-good-
ness Western —unpretentious magazine
fiction depending almost entirely on act-
ing and direction to make anything of it.
Present offering has famous scientist
sleuthing elusive germ in Sumatran
jungles. Offsider dies like guinea-pig in
experiment, and f.s. uses pelf and name
of deceased to ensure that he will earn
kudos for snaring bacteria. Dead man’s
spouse and bewchus young research-
worker add further complications.
Some well-barbed cynicism from Wil-
liam Gargan breaks down occasional
slush, and nice acting and sound direc-
tion round the piece off into a solid little
film.
“Good-bye, Broadway.”
Alice Brady, Charles Winninger.
This mildly humorous stretch at Syd-
ney Capitol is a pleasant presentation of
the played-out-actor theme.
Miss Brady and Winninger are the
two wornout vaudevillians somehow
manipulated into spending their savings
on a tumbledown hotel. Rest of the
running time is occupied with an ex-
haustive exploitation of fallabout and
their efforts to sell the pubbery.
A ventriloquist, Tommy Riggs, makes
his first appearance at an inopportune
moment a much better exponent of
voice-pitching is showing in Sydney
Regent’s “Goldwyn Follies.” Odd
touches of comedy are supplied by Frank
Jenks and Donald Meek, and half-
strangled lurv-interest by Tom Brown
and Dorothea Kent.
“You’re Only Young Once.”
To support “The First Hundred
Years” at Sydney State, this stretch of
domestic pother makes agreeable enter-
tainment.
It is the first of a series (one appeared
some time back, but figured a different
cast), second of which (“Judge Hardy’s
Children”) started last week at Sydney
Liberty. The misnlacement is well-timed,
Constance Bennett, Clarence Kolb, Alan Mowbray in “Merrily We Live,” at
Sydney Liberty.
since the first film is much better than
the second.
Principal characters of the series are
Judge Hardy (Lewis Stone), wife (Fay
Holden), children (Mickey Rooney and
Cecilia Parker), aunt (Betty Ross Clarke)
and small goil to occupy Rooney (Ann
Rutherford). They make a competent
and nicely-balanced cast on this showing.
Calf-lurv is the matter under dis-
cussion in present offering—Rooney with
a flighty young minx and his sister with
a lifesaver, whose Australian crawl, by
the way, is a poor imitation of the real
thing. It takes place mostly on Catalina
Island. Stone straightens out both mat-
ters with weighty moralising, lands a
swordfish and rectifies a spot of legal
trouble back home.
From the two episodes seen to date
it appears that, apart from their merits
as light superficial entertainment, these
films intend to work in some subtle
propaganda for benefit of adolescents
by entangling Rooney and the Parker
lass in problems peculiar to youthfulness.
It’s a sound enough idea and might serve
to offset Hollywood pornography.
“Four Men and a Prayer.”
Loretta Young, Richard Greene, David
Niven.
It would need an express train, the
Queen Mary and an airliner to follow
the story of this Sydney Century offer-
ing. It shifts back and forth between
England, Gahd’s Own, the Argentine, the
Indian n.-w. frontier and Egypt.
Aubrey C. Smith, pukka sahib some-
where near Khyber, is dishonorably dis-
charged from army and returns to Eng-
land to inform his four sons that he’s
wrongfully accused. What time camera
explores English playing-fields, law-court
and aerodrome and a mysterious dept,
of Uncle Sam’s Government. Parent is
moidered (suicide the papers have it) and
sons set out to sleuth down the criminals.
The ensuing muddle is a dreary hotch-
potch of Afghans, Egyptians and Argen-
tine revolutionaries, streaked with dilute
derring-do, syruped with sentimentalism
and padded with superfluous scenes and
long-distance telephone calls.
David Niven, George Sanders, John
Carradine, Reginald Denny, J. Edward
Bromberg and other proven actors are
scattered through the piece, and they
make the most of what little oppor-
tunities they have. Mr. Greene, heralded
as a “discovery,” has square features
and a protruding jaw, and the Young
lady wears several stunning gowns.
“Wide Open Faces.”
Joe E. Brown.
Those who like Joe will find him going
through his usual quota of damfoolery
and fallabout in this aptly-named offer-
ing at Sydney Cameo and Civic.
He makes a lot of clean fun from the
adventures of a milk-bar attendant who
helps capture Public Enemy No. 1 and
is thereafter trailed by a horde of crooks
in search of a stray 10,000 dahlars. Of
course, there’s a goil (Lyda Roberti);
and her mother (Alison Skipworth) pro-
vides a laugh here and there.
Joe is getting on a bit and beginning
to show it, but he can still raise a
chuckle, sometimes a roar, and the
youngsters still yell loudly enough at his
clowning to drown his stentorian bellow.
“The Dangerous Age.”
Bonita Granville.
Support at Sydney Mayfair, this is
billed “to answer questions parents dare
not ask.”
Actually it’s a not-over-unpleasant wash
of slops enlivened by the presence of
Bomta Granville, a competent youngster
with something of the same infectious
hooliganism that made Jane Withers a
refreshing little actress before she put on
poundage, tap-dancing and singing.
Here Spoiled but neglected cheild of
parents with oodles of boodle makes
herself about as spiteful and obnoxious
as possible. Follows domestic upheaval,
with cheild packed off to reform school
to suffer change of heart in time to ar-
range lurv-interest for headmistress and
to show parents that it was really their
fault all the time.
Just a film, but it might be rated fair
in comparison with the general run of
supports.
“Hollywood Hotel,” at Sydney May-
fair, has Dick Powell beaming like a
dentifrice advt. and yawping direfully as
he rises from saxophonist to fillum star,
then falls again, only to be dragged back
to stardom from serving in a ham-
burger stall. Hugh Herbert and Alan
Mowbray make one or two delightful but
fleeting appearances ; their good work is
drenched by the soggy efforts of Rose-
mary and Lola Lane.
“Rawhide,” at Sydney Cameo and
Civic, has Smith Ballew as lawyer-cwm-
cowpuncher-cwm-yawper in a cattle-town
harried by the sort of villainy that is so
ridiculously obvious that the very filming
of it seems a calculated insult to Uncle
Sam’s forces of law and order. From
N’Yark a champion baseball artist and
his sister come a-ranching, and the
balderdash that follows needs no mention
except that it is more dreadful than usual.
Compton and Co.
Young pianist comes to stay with
Dudley Garth-Bander, and towards the
end of the third act gets engaged to his
sister. Claude G.-8., a proper young
man, gets engaged to the housemaid.
Then, to give this little burble of subur-
ban life, being done by Fay Compton
and co. at Sydney Royal, the final touch
of English comedy, George and Mar-
garet, the impossible people from the
East whose impending visit broods over
the whole piece, don’t turn up till just
after the curtain falls.
If a talkie were compounded of these
ingredients it would take a lot of sitting
through ; and the dialogue of “George
and Margaret” is bright rather than
witty; and in this appearance Fay
Compton is more a polish than a per-
son. But the likeable efforts of Stafford
Hilliard as the stock-pattern Under-
standing Father, of the triumphantly re-
spectable Claude, and of Hayley Bell
as the sentimentally modern daughter,
plus the generally light-hearted atmo-
sphere, make it a very pleasant three
hours of nothing.
Szell and Sydney Orchestra.
Main item on Saturday night’s Town
Hall menu was Beethoven’s Pastoral Sym-
phony. Georg Szell’s authoritative read-
ing brought out all its beauties, and the
orchestra, led by Lionel Lawson, rose to
it, particularly in the rustic revelries and
in the splendid sonority of the storm
scene.
In fierce contrast to the rural sim-
plicity of the Beethoven came the Proko-
fieff Violin Concerto. It could with
greater accuracy be termed a violent con-
certo. The first two movements of this
curiously uneven work are replete with
those obscurities which are the joy of
that group of long-haired men and short-
haired women who see in the works of
this modern composer a “strange
genius.” To present critic it seemed a
ragged, jumpy and meaningless mass of
unmusical blurb that might have been
written by St. Vitus himself. In the final
moderato the work suddenly lifts to a
plane of true melody, so striking in con-
trast to the andantino and the scherzo
that it is difficult to believe they are by the
same composer. In this movement the
soloist, Ernest Llewellyn, who had dex-
terously overcome the countless snags in
the first two phases, revealed a tone of
rare beauty.
Three delightful fragments from Ber-
lioz’s “Faust,” the “Dance of the Will
o’ the Wisps,” “Dance of the Sylphs” and
the Racoczy March, brought music back
to the audience.
Meet the Koala, Mr. Disney.
About the only item of Australian
fauna that ever burrows its way into
Disney fields is Brer Rabbit, and there’s
a great deal less fraternal feeling for that
little pet here than there is in countries
where he doesn’t eat the grazier out of
hearth, home and beard.
Somebody ought to tell Disney about
the koala and the platypus. He might
be told, too, that the kangaroo he did
use once wasn’t much of a specimen ;
and then there are all the lesser ’roos —
wallabies, paddymelons, wombats, etc.
—creatures right to his hand.
Disney, who must draw a pretty bit
of pin-money from these parts, could
make a return, at once graceful and
profitable, by featuring those oddments
of livestock. They lend themselves most
readily to sentimental fantasies.
Even in America they should be a
welcome change from the too-familiar
mice and frogs; and A. A. Milne, with
an ever so motherly “Kanga” and an
ever so infantile “Roo” proved that Aus-
tralian oddities can interest overseas
markets.
About the time of the millennium, no
doubt, Australian artists, who could do
the trick quite as well as Disney, will
get the backing to make such films
locally, but in the meantime Disney is


LIST EN, MR. SvuUrlkt/ld
rECAV»S e OF ff'Rs'.
BEC^Sn® SO N°
;^r N -w ’
B*eAO»®fJ KKj~£
** peps° de^ lt h feeUng =' ean . /
- Rek^^L
PEPSODENT
ALONE among dentifrices CONTAINS
Good brushing is important
but teeth can’t really
sparkle without the right
tooth paste. End Scrub-
Hard disappointment! Get
real results by daily brush-
ing with Pepsodent con-
taining IRIUM. Irium wins
flashing natural lustre for
your teeth. Dingy film
loosens and floats away like
magic. Try it today!
imivfifl
THE PEPSODENT CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
THE 2/- SIZE
IS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL
*u 158/6E
\
ZB6
Built on the water
in primitive but
very strategic man-
ner, HANUABADA
—largest and most
interesting native
village in Papua —
is dose to Port
Moresby.
Cruise to
PAPUA
through Whitsunday Passage and the calm,
sunny waters of the GREAT BARRIER REEF.
EARLY JULY
by "ORONTES", 20,000 Tons
Carrying First Saloon and Tourist Class
OTHER WINTER CRUISES
LATE JULY - NOUMEA - "ORAMA"
By way of Barrier Reef
LATE AUGUST - FIJI (Suva) - "OTRANTO"
Carrying First Saloon and Tourist B Class
ORIENT LINE
CRUISES
ORIENT STEAM NRVIGRTION CO. LTD. INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
the only possibility. Apart from its
entertainment value, a film of Australian
animals in the Disney manner would
be valuable publicity—a fact which the
spry Tourist Department across the Tas-
man has already recognised.
Maoriland’s Tourist Department is in
communication with Disney, hurling
kiwis, wekas, tuataras and even Maori
maidens across to him in film reels and
photographs by the score. If tourist-
fishers here aren’t interested, the protec-
tors of the koala should surely see pos-
sibilities in the idea.
Water-color Show .
Albert N. Clarke’s water-colors at Sue’s
gallery, Sydney, make a number of plain
statements concerning historical land-
marks. “St. James Church,” with a
red car in the foreground, is chirpy,
“Ship and Mermaid Inn” has a wall like
a phalanx on the march, but “Elizabeth
Farmhouse, Rosehill,” and “Merriman
Street” carry some conviction. “Entrance
to the Botanical Gardens” is the liveliest
of the pencil sketches.
Olympic Games Film.
London “Observer” publishes a
column-long account by its Berlin cor-
respondent of “The Film of the Eleventh
Olympic Games, 1936.” He describes
it as “unique”: “for the first time a full-
length film has succeeded in revealing
the total significance of all sports.”
“Full length” would seem to be put-
ting it mildly—the screening lasted three
and a half hours. The cutting alone
took 20 months. The film was directed
by Miss Leni Riefenstahl, and, says this
commentator on it, “for the first time
in the history of sporting events what
was real and serious, fierce and concrete,
without pose and false pathos, has been
subjected to the hand of a theatrical
director.”
The film, he declares, will satisfy not
only the sport specialist, who can watch
the slow-motion movements of the
world’s finest athletes, but also the aver-
age person who did not see the Games.
Those who were present at the Games
every day, as the present writer was, will
re-live the scenes and see them heightened
owing to the concentrated character of the
film-camera eye—so much superior to the
human eye. One sees much more than at
the original Games owing to the fact that
events are brought much nearer.
The film is documentary, historical and
artistic. Although the director has managed
to squeeze in practically every kind of
sport, she has avoided boredom by swift
changes. Drama, still thrilling on the
screen, comes with the finals, when two or
three men fiercely compete for victory.
What must have amazed everyone is the
manner in which the cameras have been
able to catch the facial expressions of the
athletes during their most significant
moments. In each sporting event the
director has selected with consummate
artistry for a close-up those movements of
the particular athlete which the ordinary
spectator cannot see.
It must strike many as extraordinary
that a pick of Continental-made films —-
including such an effort as this one—is
never available to Australian audiences.
Of the very few films made in Europe
that have been shown here most have
been screened purely for political reasons.
Good straight documentary films
made in the countries they depict would
be certain to hold Australian and
Maoriland audiences. So-called “news-
reels,” purporting to portray life in
European countries, have for the most
part long since degenerated into un-
ashamed propaganda.
No doubt people who take their in-
formation from such an easily-faked
source as the films deserve to be misled,
but surely Australians and Maorilanders
are not such natural dupes as to still
fall for such crude hoaxes as alleged
“informative” films sometimes are.
In any case, even those who may feel
that any debunking of Fascism —fair or
poisoned —is all to the good would
surely welcome pure documentary films
from all world countries, if only to see
those countries as they see themselves,
as a change from seeing them through
a screen of hatred.
At present there’s a film showing at
Sydnqy St. James which is an excellent
example of the sort of thing Australian
and Maoriland audiences would wel-
come. Depicting Budapest, it is perhaps
superficial in that does not reveal just
how people are living there, but it does
give an unbiased portrayal of the place
as it now is, and when present film-
taster saw it screened the audiences
loudly applauded it.
“A Theatre for Sydney ”
From E. J. Tait:
It would be unfair to my brothers and myself,
who have been vitally interested in the man-
agement of J. C. Williamson, Ltd., particularly
for the past 18 years, to allow the Sundry
Showman’s article “A Theatre for Sydney”
(B. 1/6/’3B) to remain unchallenged in several
of the points raised.
The Sundry Showman stated that even be-
fore the coming of the talkies the Firm
appeared to be on the retreat. This is cer-
tainly not shown in the activities of J. C. Wil-
liamson, Ltd., up to 1928-29. During the latter
part of 1928 and in 1929, the Firm controlled
in Sydney His Majesty’s, Royal, Criterion,
Palace and the Tivoli. In Melbourne there were
His Majesty’s, Royal, King’s and Tivoli, with
the new Comedy just completed.
At that period no fewer than 17 attractions
were playing in Sydney and Melbourne and on
tour. These included grand opera, Pavlova
ballet, “Madame Pompadour,” “Interference,”
“The Patsy” (two companies), “Desert Song,”
Dion Boucicault Co., “Young Woodley,” stock
dramatic co., Muriel Starr Co., Margaret
Bannerman Co., “Hit the Deck,” “Midnight
Frolics,” Percy Hutchinson Co. and vaudeville
in both Tivolis in Sydney and Melbourne; and
the talkies had arrived
At that time the Firm had plenty of opposi-
tion. The Fullers were running vaudeville in
opposition to the Tivolis, and their various
theatres in Sydney and Melbourne housed legiti-
mate attractions, while a new group had built
the Empire Theatre in Sydney and were bring-
ing out overseas musical plays.
When the slump hit Australia, who ran for
cover? Not the Firm, but the opposition!
Where are their magnificent playhouses? Now
all picture-houses! And J. C. Williamson,
Ltd., was left to “carry the baby” at a
period when the streets were empty and pockets
were tightly sealed. Little wonder that some
of the Firm’s possessions had to be sold to
keep the flag flying. Had the Taits not been
keen businessmen as well as showmen the old
Firm may have ceased to function, and they
could have sat back in the security of real
estate holdings and let someone else lose vast
sums in theatrical presentations—if anyone had
been brave enough to venture into the field.
Why does the average Australian cavil at
theatre prices? They are at least 50 p.c. lower
here than in any part of the world. The
Australian who visits London pays 15s. and
sometimes £1 Is., plus the exchange, for a seat
for a show he sees here later on at 75., and in
mast cases the productions here are quite on a
par with West End presentations.
Had the City Council been willing, J. C.
Williamson, Ltd., was prepared to spend a
large sum of money to renovate the Criterion
Theatre, but the council felt that even a five
years’ lease would hinder the Park-street widen-
ing scheme, and so another theatrical landmark
went by the board. Then came the negotiations
for the Queen Victoria Markets scheme, but
here again the council could not see its way
to go on with the scheme despite the offer
by the Firm of a long lease at a payable rental.
Meantime, the Firm had acquired a block
of land in Castlereagh-street on which to build
a theatre to replace the Criterion, but as con-
ditions improved the intimate theatre that could
be built would not suit grand opera and ballet
and big productions such as the Firm has
presented in the past. Site after site was sub-
mitted, but the price was not economically
sound, as a legitimate theatre is open but 24
hours a week in comparison with the 72 hours
the picture-houses are open to the public.
The Taits particularly wish the new group
every success, and if they achieve their am-
bition of a new theatre my brothers and myself
will be the first to congratulate them. We have
combed the world for the very best offering as
far as attractions are concerned, and the' record
of famous stars and celebrated concert artists
brought to this country by J. C. Williamson,
Ltd., and J. and N. Tait will challenge com-
parison for many years to come.
To all of which that gives the Firm
its due-r-excepting such matters as the
references to the “opposition,” on which
he no way touched —this Sundry Show-
man says Hear-hear! He has the most
endearing memories of the Firm, all
gathered only during the period when
the Taits were in charge of it.
At the same time, and not abating that
admiration a jot, he regrets the facts,
which are that Sydney has for some time
had only one legit, theatre as against its
many talkie houses showing mostly
American-made films. In his article he
pointed out how the Firm, as well as
giving Australia the best of theatre,
gave also the needed leg-up to Austra-
lian acting talent, which the film houses
don’t do. (It might be contended that
the film houses do help Australian acting
talent by showing Australian films, but
at least two Australian-made films have
now been some time completed, and they
have been a fair time getting a showing.
The economic aspect as presented by
Mr. Tait makes unhappy reading to one
whose wish, as far as the Firm is con-
cerned, is that that fine theatrical organi-
sation had never been hit by anything,
but was still flourishing, continuing
its needed cultural service to Australia
that no other theatrical organisation has
approached.


COMING TO ENGLAND?
ST A Y IN THE HEART OF LONDON.
Choose wisely . . . the MAPLETON . . . in
the midst of theatres and shops. 100 bed-
rooms, with bathroom and ’phone. Fully
licensed restaurant open till midnight. Special
terms for Overseas visitors. Details from
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Bachflat, Lesquare, London.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
King’s Birthday Honors fell thick in
Sydney. Many of them lighted on the
lapels of members of the 150th Birthday
celebrations committee. A posthumous
knighthood was bestowed on Minister
John Dunningham, and people are glad
for the widow’s sake; and Thomas
Stewart Gordon was given a K.B. He’s
a South Australian, by the way, and
managing director of Birt and Co. With
his wife and two unmarried daughters,
Vicki and Helen, he lives at Point Piper.
Married daughter Mrs. Holmwood lives
in Victoria. ' The girls are addicted to
boating, tennis and travel. Mother likes
tapestry and travel. All are good
workers on charity committees.
The wives of banker A. C. Davidson
and Dr. Robert Wade are also new-
comers to the company of knights’ ladies.
The former is a great worker for the
Industrial Blind and the Red Cross; the
second makes the cause of the Crippled
Children her principal interest. President
of the National Council of Women Mrs.
Mildred Muscio will now dangle an
0.8. E. when she goes to formal recep-
tions. She also has worked for the past
seven years in aid of the crippled chil-
dren. She is active on many women’s
committees, and was last year appointed
substitute delegate from Australia to the
League of Nations. She was chairman
of the women’s executive and advisory
council of the 150th Anniversary com-
mittee. Former Mayoress Mrs. G. A.
Parkes is another 0.8. E. recipient. The
Industrial Blind, the - Adult Deaf and
Dumb and the Far West Children’s
Health Scheme are among her good
works.
The really exclusive dance of the week
was the one to aid the Bush Book Club.
Tickets at 255. each are not exactly in
reach of the proletariat. It was a dinner-
dance, and Mrs. Gordon Brady, Mrs.
Dundas Allen and Barbara Knox were
mainly responsible. Over 160 had their
bite and sup and danced for the cause.
Most of them had been at cocktails,
either as hosts or guests with friends
at neighboring tables, so all was merry
and sociable. Among the cocktail dis-
pensers were Consul-General for the
Netherlands Elink Schuurman and his
wife.
How successfully brown can be worn
with black was shown by Fay Compton
when she wore a girdle of tan with a
black-and-white frock in “George and
Margaret,” a comedy of the rather skim-
milk variety which seems to be the vogue.
It made history in one respect, being the
first production under the new J. C.
Williamson management. This doesn’t
mean that our old friends the Taits won’t
still be in the picture. On Saturday night
the E. J. Taits sat in a box on the left
of the stage, and were later at the supper
party given by S. S. Crick, one of the
new managing directors, in honor of the
Kenneth Aspreys—he’s the new chair-
man of the company. Mrs. Crick’s white
satins were sunray-pleated. Mrs. Asprey
was cloaked and frocked in black velvet.
There were sable cuffs and collar on
Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s moss-green coat;
blue and silver tissue was in frock and
coat worn by Mrs. F. J. Davy. Robin
Eakin, recovered from her illness, was
greeted by many. It’s to be hoped that
Fay Compton isn’t superstitious, because
the new directors presented her at the
Cricks’ supper party with an opal neck-
lace.
The A.J.C. celebrated the King’s
Birthday to the tune of horse hooves.
These beat out their rhythm at Warwick
Farm on Saturday, and at Randwick on
Monday. Saturday’s crisp coldness
brought out a procession of furs and
tweeds to the Farm, and Pam Laidley
Dowling was well in the picture with her
check tweeds and soft woollen topcoat.
Checks, too, were worn by Mrs. Braxner,
and her sporty little hat was in the same
blue and white. A suit of green banded
in fur was worn by Mrs. Sam Hordern.
Marcelle Bishop and Margaret Cary were
two nice girls, and Amber Bushell was
another in autumn-red tweeds. The
whole of the dressing was tweedy and
country life.
The Independents’ show, “Call It a
Day,” nearly became “Call It a Night.”
North Harborites in the audience caught
the midnight ferry home. But they had
had such a good laugh they were still
chuckling by the time their heads con-
nected with their pillows. It was one
of the best efforts of the group, so far,
and that in spite of the tire in the club-
rooms the previous night.
Kathleen Herbert is the brilliant young
pianist who won the under-16 and the
under-18 championships at the recent
eisteddfod. She was second in the open
championship, and second in the piano
solo, any age. The judges gave her a
special prize, too, for her outstanding
work. In addition, she has won a bushel
or so of silver medals and prizes. She is
a pupil of the Conservatorium, and on
Friday, June 24, Kathleen gives a recital
in its small hall. Her studies have been
almost submerged in congratulations.
The offer from the firm to extend the
loan of the rooms was received with
applause.
Newtown had a ball last week that
will be remembered. It was Newtown’s
Mayoral Ball, and Australia’s only
woman mayor, Mrs. Lilian Fowler,
presided with happy dignity. She car-
ried her robes of office with the
right air, and her black velvet frock
was becoming. Her gold evening
bag, very shining and new, was the gift
of the big suburb’s Women’s Auxiliary.
Lord and Lady Wakehurst went to the
party, and the streets outside St. George’s
Hall were crowded with eager and quite
unenvious lookers-on. The Government
House group received an ovation both
outside and inside the hall. Here 15
debs, were presented to the vice-regals.
Helping her mother to receive the guests
was Mrs. E. Tierney, who is Newtown’s
Mayoress. Member for the district Frank
Burke had his moment when he pre-
sented to the Mayor the trophy won by
Newtown’s still-remembered “silver” float
in the 150th Anniversary procession.
Musical enthusiasm in Sydney can
reach the heights of crowding out an
eleven-o’clock-in - the - morning meeting.
The subject under discussion in the Aus-
tralia the other morning was sending
Valda Averting overseas for further
study. Valda is 18, a brilliant pianist,
and had no less a person than the Direc-
tor of the Conservatorium to speak up
for her at the meeting. The wives of
Lieutenant-Governor Street and of Chief
Justice Jordan are heading a committee
of which the Gordon lady is organising
secretary, to make the Sydney girl’s testi-
monial concert a real money-raiser.
Frank Hutchens sent his bit to the fund
by air-mail from England, where he is
holidaying. Mrs. Fritz Coper (herself
a sweet singer) has arranged for the
pianist to give a broadcast recital at
Colorpbo on her way to England. It
sounds like success. So did Valda’s play-
ing at the Killara Music Club’s reception
last week.
On Saturday night Kirsten Flagstad
commences her season at Sydney Town
Hall. She comes with the laurels of
the Metropolitan Opera, New York, still
marked by the winning of exhibitions
and the scoring of highest marks in the
State. Sidney Riley photo.
.You had to go with the tide at the
Tapestry Exhibition. Hundreds of women
and a smattering of men crowded into
David Jones’s auditorium for the open-
ing, and a one-way traffic was the only
possible way of glimpsing exhibits. Some
people stuck to their guns, and did the
round of the room, but others less
courageous dropped out by the way. Sec-
retaries Mrs. H. A. Curl and Madge Cox
simply scintillated with success, and the
air buzzed with congratulations. There
were touches of Persian lamb on Lady
Wakehurst’s slim-fitting black coat. An
effective black toque and a presentation
posy of pink carnations were finishing
touches. The Premier was on the plat-
form, and so was Consett Stephen, presi-
dent of the Industrial Blind Institute.
His sly reference to a Garden of Eden
tapestry and Mr. Spooner got the laugh
of the afternoon.
Mrs. Pao, who has lent some rich
Chinese tapestries, was there with her
mother and Mrs. Emery. Mrs. Emery
is a Dublinite, and she was talking to
Mrs. Toby Browne, who spent much of
her girlhood in Ireland. Two other
visitors from Dublin were Mrs. Hilliard
and daughter Rose. Oswald Cheeke, who
had also loaned some pieces, brought a
party, and Syd Ure Smith was in the
midst of an art group. Director of the
National Gallery Will Ashton was there
with Mrs. Ashton. Captain and Mrs.
Acland had a look in before going on
to the good-bye party at Tresco given
by Captain and Mrs. G. A. Scott, who
sail on Saturday for England.
One of the loveliest coats was worn
by Mrs. C. L. Jones. It was of grey
Persian lamb. With her were Mrs. Kipnis
and Mrs. Szell. Mrs. Bertie Kelly was
also in this group. The new Davidson
knight’s lady was there. So were the
Sheldon lady and knight John McKel-
vey’s wife, as usual one of the smartest
present. She wore pale beige Angora,
finished off with the latest in sailor-
shaped black antelope hats. Her black
gloves had deep gauntlets. Mrs. Stamp
Taylor, who organised the success, was
fresh upon her, and will, after her Aus-
tralian tour, go back to gather more. The
Norwegian star has simple tastes, and
has neither personal maid nor secretary.
She dresses herself for her parts, and
puts on her own make-up. She is home-
loving, but believes that every woman
should be equipped to earn her own
living in case of necessity. Norwegian
women, she says, accept work as an
honorable necessity if heed be. They
do not make a problem of it, or demand
it as a feminine right. She has a passion
for motoring, and learns many of her
parts driving along in the back seat of
a car, a score on her knees, singing full
voice. Solitaire is her weapon against
the sleepless night that often follows a
performance. After her first appearance
as Isolda she went home only to sing
the entire role over again in her mind
till she got up and immersed herself in
her game.
Seals, penguins, bears, glittering Alpine
peaks, snowbound chalets and hoary
pines are the decorative rhythm circling
the icy wastes of the Moore Park Palais.
No longer does its vast floor echo to
dancing feet, for in the most up-to-date
fashion it has turned itself into an ice
palace. Miles and miles of pipes twist
and wriggle below to give the floor that
polished, polar glitter. Cream and scarlet
paints have been used unsparingly on
the surrounds. Radiators on raised
stands occur at regular intervals. Tables
are set around the rink, and here suppers
will be served. There’s a club, too, in
connection with the rink. Darling Point
names appear on the office-bearers list,
and also the name of the Minister for
Health.
There was a gala opening last Friday
night, and under the Arcticlike lighting
Sydney gathered either to look on, when,
in spite of the radiators, a rug wasn’t to
be sneezed at, or to go galloping about
the frozen area. Some of our girls do
the thing very nicely ; others again sug-
gest Eliza crossing the ice. Ruby Storey
is one who knows. So are Mrs. Tony
Hordern (all sturdy white pullover and
dark skirt) and Mrs. Alexis Albert, who
wore a black velvet outfit. Everybody
clapped themselves to warmth at the
exhibition skating. Freddie Tomlins and
Clarence Hislop, William McLennan,
from the Westminster Rink, London, and
E. Wridgeway, who jumped over chairs
seven deep, were followed by applause
that sounded like a hailstorm. The Nor-
wegian girl Inger Kragelund, straight and
slim as a young larch, flitted hither and
yon, untiring as a butterfly. She
pirouetted and turned Catherine-wheels,
not only without turning a hair, but
without once disarranging her tiny cap
of gaily-flowered silk.
All the girl attendants, incidentally, are
dressed as though they had stepped from
the Tyrol. Phyllis Parkinson rushed
busily about; her black hat wore red,
yellow and green cock’s plumes. J. C.
Bendrodt wore a cream jacket with his
maroon trousers. Dennis Allen skated
untiringly. Government House was rep-
resented by Blake Pelly and Captain
Tony Lawrence. Pamela Laidley Dow-
ling and Gloria Moore Cosgrave were
attractive girls ; the latter took to the
ice with father, who is Canada’s Trade
Commissioner. The A. C. Godhards and
the C. L. Jones couple entertained outsize
parties. There was a sled all snow and
frost drawn by two cream ponies. In
the sled were girls dressed in the last
word in skating togs. But, alas! how-
ever correct their outfits, the behavior of
the little cream ponies was on two occa-
sions anything but correct at all.
If any grown-ups entered the Town
Hall last Friday with a grouse against
life, feeling that health and wealth had
missed them, they must have forgotten
their grievances in half an hour. Of all
the joymaking spectacles this city has to
offer, this Letter knows of nothing better
than the Junior Red Cross Pageant. Small
girls from two or so upwards last Friday
were in the revels. Dressed as Highland
lassies they stepped and twirled the
length of the Town Hall till they came
to the dais where important people sat.
Ladies of the Regency, belles of old Bath,
and even a Mae West were there.
It was quite a sensation when police-
men (from two it had mounted to seven
during the afternoon) arrived at the door
of the Overseas Club and asked if the
members of the International Club
needed their presence at the party the
Internationalists were giving to Count
Von Luckner and his wife. Members
of the club gave an emphatic “No!”
and the Force retired. Some say they
waited in the street below. However,
when the big man with the very large
smile and the Countess arrived there
was no lack of warmth in the welcome
given to them. Everybody clustered
around waiting for the introduction. The
Count’s handshake makes all the stories
about the strength of his grip come true.


fOli W£4KM£N4ND WOM£N
Loss of vitality and premature feeling of 010
a S e are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age ana
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
Sl9 George St., Sydney j
020
GL-fIND
TONIC
TBBLfTS
ss'y
'
WO i lock
>}£■ wreck n>. Mo
tHERES TH4 r OCI.OCKJ
; ow'-y sleep; g " I/ 'V/'
\
H
P
sssss* 1
or Sound sleep and
Steadier Nerves
A S you lie awake in the still watches of the night, even
k trifling worries weigh heavily on the mind —the slightest
noise strikes painfully on the nerves. Morning comes without
bringing you that refreshment of body and mind which only
sound sleep can give.
Say good-bye to sleepless nights by making “Ovaltine” your
regular “good-night” beverage. “Ovaltine” is remarkable in
its power to soothe the nerves and quickly induce deep,
natural sleep.
Moreover, “Ovaltine” builds you up while you sleep. It
provides every food element for restoring the entire system.
Try a cup of “Ovaltine” to-night. See how soundly you
sleep—how refreshed you awake.
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial sample of “Ovaltine”, sufficient
to make four cupsful, will be sent on receipt of 3d. in stamps, to
cover cost of packing and postage. See address below.
PRICES: 1/9, 2/10, 5/-. At all Chemists and Stores.
OVALTINE’
The World’s Best Night-cap
A. WANDER LIMITED, I YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY
• 016.18.38.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
The appeal for Kingsholme brought in
more than the £2OOO asked for. Then
the Queensland Beekeepers’ Association
weighed in with a three-storeyed hive of
Italian bees. As it is hoped to make the
Diggers’ home self-supporting, anyone
with a spare heifer or a few fowls will be
made welcome when he comes along
with his offering.
Brisbane Repertory Society’s produc-
tion of “Pride and Prejudice” was suc-
cessful. Clare Clarke made an excellent
Mrs. Bennet, and Miss Tighe was equally
deserving of praise as Lady Lucas. Tom
Pollard was a satisfying Mr. Bennet, and
Gwen Campbell, Maureen Sanderson and
Betty Boulton all showed a thorough
appreciation of their roles as the three
Bennet girls. Frocking was delightful,
and the stage settings admirable. Bar-
bara Sisley produced.
The death of Gladys Powell, for years
secretary to the Royal Queensland Art
Society, is a loss to Brisbane’s artistic
world. Her father, the late J. M. Hob-
day, was a well-known Queensland artist.
Although bedridden for over two years,
she entered two pictures in last year’s Art
Show, and the little humorous pencil
sketches she made while in hospital are
cherished by friends as mementoes of
the gay and gallant spirit which was her
chief charm.
The Cilento lady opened Dora Wilson’s
art show at the Gainsborough Galleries,
and most of Brisbane’s art-lovers went
along to admire the works of this Vic-
torian. Her Australian and European
landscape, still-life and figure work
studies are delightful.
The Y.M.C.A. girls hit a winner with
their decorated alcove at the Hockey
Ball. Mr. H. N. Vidgen, chairman of the
ball committee, and Mrs. Vidgen, the
lady in a silken gown patterned with
green, black and white leaves, received
the guests.
Two debs, who made their bow to
Archbishop Duhig at St. Ursula’s Ball,
held at the Belle Vue, were Thelma
Weedon and Dulcie Warrian, who came
down from Toowoomba. Mrs. T. Gamin,
president of St. Ursula’s Past Pupils’
Assn., and the patroness, Mrs. A. V.
Meehan, received.
A successful bridge and musical after-
noon held aboard the Manoora swelled
the funds of the Limbless Soldiers. Mrs.
F. K. Brodribb and Mrs. G. R. Faulk-
ner were the official hostesses, and
Dr. Robert Dalley-Scarlett arranged the
musical programme. Flags, pennants and
quantities of flowers made a gay setting.
The kettle boiled unceasingly at the
Bush Book Club when the annual book
day dawned again. A couple of thousand
new books and periodicals came along
to replenish the store, to the joy of the
officers. Only the bush folk know what
the work of this club means.
WESTRALIA.
Anzac House ballroom housed a pic-
turesque gathering at the Historical
Society’s Foundation Day party and ball.
Modern folk delved into ancestral ward-
robes and drew forth costumes worn in
the pioneer days of 100 years ago by
grand- and great-grandparents. The Gov-
ernment House and Lud Mayoral parties
were ensconced in a bower of pampas
grass and chrysanthemums for the musi-
cal programme arranged by Mrs. Henry
Grieg, an amusing period playlet en-
acted by Joyce Mortlock and Dorothy
Mark, and old-world ballets by Linley
Wilson’s pupils garbed in frilly panta-
lettes peeping ’neath swaying hooped
skirts.
After a grand parade of period cos-
tumes, among which Cliftons and
Hamersleys figured largely, modern
streamlines and nineteenth-century crino-
lines mingled as they tripped a sprightly
measure. The Mitchell lady’s shadowy
black and silver lame was parked beside
hostess Mrs. Mary Farrelly’s brocaded
blue satin and white lace cap anchored
to her white curls with a pink tearose.
Dirksey Cowan’s Honiton lace collar was
pinned to her plum watered silks with an
o.s. cameo brooch, the Ned Stirlings were
1820 vintage in flowered waistcoat and
puffed and frilled blue taffetas, and Mrs.
C. M. Eggleston’s 1860 sprigged muslins
were offset with lacy fichu and mittens.
Bunbury got out its camp stretchers
for the long week-end to cope with the
influx of visitors for the sou’-west golf
championships. House parties flowed
over the Venn and Rose homesteads, and
private parties were sandwiched in be-
tween the serious business and the Golf
Club’s cocktail forgathering to open
festivities and ball to wind up the doings.
Mrs. Frank Venn flung a dramatic long
white velvet cape over pleated black
ninons in place of russet tweeds of the
afternoon; Felicity Hill, a t’othersider
soon to wed medico Neville Joel, of the
sou’-west town, was a bright spot in
tangerine patterned black crepes, and
Jenny Venn’s dark locks gleamed above
a swathing of flamingo velvet.
Kit Sherlock matched up eyes with her
bridal raiment of beshirred and silver-
buttoned blue marquisette and diaphon-
ous halo of the same hue. The ’groom
was Ven. Archdeacon Parry, only son
of the late Bishop Parry, who had a big
finger in the early ecclesiastical pie of
Perth, and the knot-tiers the Primate of
Australia, Dr. Le Fanu, and his chaplain,
Archdeacon Riley. Ethel Rose ’maided
in silvery satin, lame encrusted, and silver-
bowed halo to match. Kitty Clifton lent
her Adelaide-terrace home for the cake-
cutting.
A wedding with a nautical flavor was
that of Rhaeda Schowell to the Centaur’s
handsome chief officer, Martin Whitman.
Conventional magnolia satin and billow-
ing tulle draped the bride as she paced
St. Mary’s aisle on brother Henry’s arm.
The ’maids, Hazel Prowse and Dorothy
Hart, made a warm splash of color in
carmine-red velvet cut medieval fashion,
topped with narrow gold coronets.
Guests drank a magnum at the Adelphi
afterwards and admired the wedding-
cake decorated as a ship. A four days’
honeymbon is to be followed in
October by a trip to England via Singa-
pore and a future domicile in the Cold
Country.
A blaze of scarlet poinsettias in huge
bowls and crackling log fires warmed the
crowds who flocked to the S. W. Perrys’
Crawley home to play bridge for that
deserving charity, the Lady Lawley Cot-
tage-by-the-Sea. The effort was organ-
ised by the Junior Victoria League, and
a group of young things put their backs
into cake- and sweet-making and sand-
wich-cutting for the 200 or so whom they
had roped in to help fill the cottage
coffers.
Dr. Joan Hearman, Ph.D., B.Sc., is
living in a whirl of preparation for de-
parture for Canberra, and coping with
a spate of congratulations on her ap-
pointment as assistant research officer of
the C.S. and I.R. She is an old P.L.C.
girl and daughter of the C.W.A. presi-
dent. Delving into nutrition deficiencies
in pines and black spot in pears are just
two of her varied interests.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Bleak weather for Adelaide races brought
out tweeds, woollens and furs. James Hall
(chairman) and daughter Muriel enter-
tained the vice-regal party at luncheon
and afternoon tea. His Excellency and
Lady Dugan were present with full
staff. Lady Dugan’s pale green and beige
check tweed suit was made with a long
cape effect; beneath it her green jumper
showed, and her felt hat matched in tone
and was banded with brown. Gwen Hall
wore a warm-toned navy woollen
tailored suit, with navy vest and hat.
Burgundy-toned was the coat worn by
Mrs. Whitmore Carr, with a fox-fur
collar and a wide-brimmed velour hat
to match her coat. Mrs. R. L. Butler
was wearing a black velour hat with her
black tailored coat with skunk-fur collar,
Mrs. H. Allan Morris was a smart figure
in a navy-blue flecked belted suit with
a double silver fox-fur. Mrs. A. V.
Benson chose a skunk-fur hip-length
cape to wear with her dark-green flecked
tweed ensemble, and her hat was a black
felt.
Mrs. A. B. Muddock and Hazel Wallis
were the conveners of a bright dance
held at the Glenelg Golf Club house to
raise funds to provide a lounge for the
associates. Dancing was in the mem-
bers’ lounge. The decorations were in
yellow chrysanthemums and poinsettias,
and the supper tables arranged with
Lorraine Lee roses. Mrs. Muddock’s
black frock was draped in Grecian style.
Miss H. Wallis chose a primrose knife-
pleated chiffon. Mrs. S. McKee was
smart in ombre satin cut on princess
lines. The guests included all the golfers
and their friends, about 160 in all.
Adelaide has every reason to be proud
of Ruth Naylor, whose mother has gone
to London to live with her. Ruth
recently took the part of Susanna at a
Sadler’s Wells production of “The Mar-
riage of Figaro,” with Arnold Matters
as Figaro.
Red was the outstanding color at the
well-attended Rostrevor Ball held at the
Australia Hall. Huge wreaths of scarlet
lacquered leaves with scarlet “R’s” made
of flowers were hung from the electric
brackets round the ballroom. The stage
was elaborately arranged with an illu-
minated castle in a profusion of poin-
settia. The guests were received by
committee-president Mrs. P. W. Rice and
secretary Mrs. K. C. Kenny. Mrs. Rice
was gowned in black and silver brocade,
with a green corsage posy. Mrs. Kenny’s
tailored coat of silver lame was worn
with a gown of black satin.
Actress Fanny Powers is dead in Adel-
aide. She left the stage to marry W. B.
Foote, a commercial man, who died a
year ago. She was then well, still youth-
ful-looking, and enjoyed talking about
her old successes. But when disease
attacked her she died mercifully soon.
TASMANIA.
Mrs. Alfred Pedder’s Devonshire tea,
which she gave at her New Town home,
was the novelty party of the week. Devon
roses—remarkable that they should still
be frost-free at this time of the year—
were arranged in old Devon china vases.
Hostess wore navy georgette with long
full sleeves appliqued with rust and blue
and white flowers. Daughter Sylvia, in
flower-patterned smart black frock, as-
sisted in the entertaining.
Dorothy Booker, of Brisbane, gave a
large party at Hadley’s to say farewell
before leaving for Melbourne and Syd-
ney. She looked handsome in black.
Iceland poppies in crystal bowls were the
effective floral decorations.
Stout staff work by the young mem-
bers of the Victoria League paved the
way for the success of the big dance
which they held last week. The beauti-
ful decorations bore testimony to the
many hours of flower-picking and
-arranging which must have gone into that
labor of love. President Mrs. Francis
Foster contrasted her fairness with black
lace. Brenda Walch chose black, and
dark-haired Sylvia Pedder, who came with
brother Louis, was a-glitter in silver.
Lylith Knight, whose sister Enid has just
set off for England, was there.
Two women in Sydney were brought
into close touch with Von Luckner during
the war days. Mrs. Crawford Robertson
was on board the Amra when the
Seeadler’s commander was travelling in
her, a prisoner of war. Dolly Hollander
Moore was in the Moeraki between here
and Maoriland one unforgettable night
when V.L. was in pursuit of it.
There’ll be no “Lochiel, Lochiel!
Beware of the day!” about the 24th of
this month. On that date 5000 members
of the Clan Cameron are paying their
homage to Lochiel. This is the spectacular
part of a world-wide movement among
the Camerons to keep the old clan lands
and the castle in perpetuity as a resi-
dence for their chieftain. Lochiel
and his have done this out of their
private incomes as though it were a
trust. But now taxation and reduced
income have made the clan the world
over rally to his aid. The chieftain is
the twenty-seventh Lochiel in succession.
He is Colonel Sir Donald Walter
Cameron. His wife is a daughter of
the Duke of Montrose. His father was
Lord-Lieutenant of Inverness. Dame
Mary Gilmore, who is a Cameron, is
calling the first meeting in Sydney. Her
brother Jack sounded the tocsin rally-
ing the clan in London. Camerons, the
Dungowan on June 24!


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you —now worry them:
.although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep —a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE - - - 3d.
On Sale Every Wednesday.
Personal and Missing Friends.
HAZELTON.—Anyone knowing the where-
abouts of BENJAMIN HAZELTON, last heard
of at Guildford, in 1935, DENIS HAZELTON,
at Kyneton, Vic., in 1891, and THOMAS
HAZELTON, at Blackall, Qld., in 1888 (sons
of William Hazelton and Mary Flanagan), or
their children, kindly communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, concerning the estate of their brother
Richard Hazelton, deceased.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.
(Divorce.)
TO EDWARD GREEN formerly of Laun-
ceston in Tasmania.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been hied
in this Court endorsed with a notice to you
to appear and answer the charges in the petition
of GERTRUDE ALICE MAY GREEN pray-
ing for a dissolution of marriage In default
of your so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will proceed
to hear the said petition proved and pronounce
judgment in respect thereto. And take further
notice that for the purpose aforesaid within
thirty days after the date of this publication
an appearance must be entered at the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie
Street Hobart.
(1.5.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
JAMES EDGAR HERITAGE, 55 Paterson
Street, Launceston, in Tasmania, Proctor for the
Petitioner.
TO CYRIL BELL ARNELL formerly of 67
Bennett Street North Fitzroy in the State
of Victoria but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife ILMA
ARNELL has instituted proceedings against
you for divorce on the ground of desertion.
Unless you enter an appearance in the office
of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court in
Melbourne on or before the Sixth day of July
1938 the case may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs.
A. G. ALLAWAY, 8.A., LL.B.,
379 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALLS.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 738 of 1938.
BETWEEN ANNIE ELIZABETH SMITH
Petitioner
And MATHEW RALSTON SMITH Re-
spondent.
TO MATHEW RALSTON SMITH late of
Inverell in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANNIE
ELIZABETH SMITH has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
dissolution of marriage on the grounds that
you have without just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted her and without any such cause or
excuse left her continuously so deserted during
three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the Thirtieth day
of August next and in the event of your not
so doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Thirty-first day of May One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) T. THORN BOROUGH,
Clerk in Divorce.
CLIVE W. DAVIES (CLIVE DAVIES &
SHARPE), Solicitor for the Petitioner, Bank
of New South Wales Building, 341 George
Street, Sydney.
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 601 of 1938.
IETWEEN RONALD NORMAN CONVERY
Petitioner
And EILEEN MARY CONVERY Re-
spondent.
fO EILEEN MARY CONVERY formerly of
Weston New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said RONALD
BORMAN CONVERY has commenced a suit
igainst you in this Honorable Court and is
tpplying for a dissolution of marriage on the
'rounds of desertion for three years without
ust cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
hat you are required to enter an appearance
o the said suit at the proper office of this
honorable Court on or before the Twenty-fifth
lay of August next and in the event of your
lot doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ng further time the Petitioner will proceed and
he suit be heard and determined your absence
lotwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
lerein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Second day of June, One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) T. THORNBOROUGH,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, 2 York
Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatte
If the nations would meet and mingle
in Europe as they did at the Palais last
week the Mad Continent wouldn’t be
quite so mad. All nationals had but a
single thought at the International Club
Ball —to enjoy themselves. About 26
countries were represented in the grand
parade. In costume, seven little sloe-eyed
children from China sang an Oriental
nursery rhyme, some Scottish lassies
danced to a piper’s tune and a Swedish
group put over a piece of Norse jollity.
Gwen Hughes made use of her extensive
collection of Czechoslovakia’s apparel
and her knowledge of its folklore and
music to organise a group of 18 young
men and women, who, if most of them
couldn’t manage the guttural language,
wore its peasant costumes with an air.
Frank Blayden walked at the head of the
group playing folk tunes on his fiddle.
Betty Just, Mavis and Beryl Peacock,
Mrs. Maurice Belz and Mrs. B. P. John-
son were among the revellers.
The first night of the revival of “Bala-
laika” (a revival of a long, successful
season 10 months ago) didn’t bring the
usual first-night crowd to His Majesty’s,
for there were other attractions. Tibbett
packed the Town Hall as usual, Ruth
Draper filled the Comedy and several
thousands sat at home by their fires and
radios hearing England make sure of
things in the first Test. Seen at “Bala-
laika” were Mrs. G. B. Lansell and Pat,
down from Bendigo for a couple of days.
Recognised in the foyer was the Post
Office’s new knight Harry Brown. The
Robert Best couple were in the front of
the circle. Sheila Helpman was notice-
able in her black velvet and tuberoses,
with scarlet chiffon hankie as a dash of
color. Mrs. T. Allan McKay wore her
shoulder load of luxury in the shape of
a white fox cape. The Norman Daw-
borns were also seen in the stalls, Mrs.
Dawborn wearing an alliance of (?lack
satin and Dubonnet-red velvet.
Royal Melbourne Hospital auxiliaries
who came to the hospital last week for
their annual general meeting found a
welcome in the main entrance hall of a
much-appreciated coat of pale green paint
upon the erstwhile dun-colored walls.
Matron Grey and several of the sisters
piloted them on inspection tours over the
building. After the business meeting
and musical programme in the out-
patients’ hall the young things from the
nurses’ school ran around with trays
of tea, coffee, sandwiches and other dainty
trifles. In his speech General Bruche
voiced a suspicion that the committee
was taking advantage of his old age, he
having heard on good authority that all
the good speakers had been unable to
come. The General takes an affectionate
interest in the Melbourne Hospital, for
he’s watched it expand from the ’eighties.
Among those who saw over the hospital
and afterwards had a word with the
afternoon’s busiest woman, Mrs. Con-
stance Hughes, was Mrs. Leigh Wed-
lick, who has heard from her husband
so much in appreciation of the kiosk
auxiliary’s gift to his physiotherapy
department. * This gift was a short-wave
apparatus worth £255. In his spare time
Dr. Wedlick is an amateur photographer,
and has made interesting movie films of
the new machine and the useful work it
performs.
For six days and nights the Country
Women’s Exhibition in the Lower Town
Hall was a rebuke to ordinary people,
who felt themselves to be sluggards in
such company, but it proved yet another
spur to the ambitions of those who are
already skilled at crafts. Patience and
perseverance seem to have been bestowed
upon so many of the clever exhibitors,
among them Miss Rainey, of Kilmore.
At a quick glance her teacloth with
crochet edge has been made around a
linen centre. But there was no linen in
the piece ; the whole cloth was crochet.
Many knitters have never heard of No.
20 needles, but they do exist, and were
used for the fine texture of several
children’s jumpers and baby garments in
the knitted section.
The toys were as much fun for the
adults as they were for the children. Living
amicably together on their shelves, with
Mrs. Furze Morrish present on several
days as saleswoman and supervisor for
their welfare, were penguins, kookaburras,
rabbits, lifelike woolly lambs, guinea-
pigs and dogs disdainfully purebred or
affectionately mongrel. Even plump
middle-aged men who denied having
young families at home couldn’t resist
buying them.
Just to show to what distances economy
can be carried the district of Birragurra
sent in a complete kitchen called the
“Thrifty Family at Home.” Mrs. Thrifty
is no beauty, and her husband would be
an unpleasant person to meet on a dark
night, but it was pretty smart of Birra-
gurra to give him a face at all, even such
a gangster face, for its materials were
painted clay over a wire skeleton. His
body was of chaff bags filled with hay.
The American Women’s Auxiliary cele-
brated its seventh birthday with a
luncheon party at Mrs. F. A. Henry’s
home, where seven lighted candles glowed
upon the angel cake and the devil cake
placed at each end of the buffet table.
Being American the cooking was very
special. Several of the committee people
had a hand in the various stages of
chicken salad, its ingredients coming
from many quarters to Mrs. Henry’s
kitchen earlier in the morning. Mrs.
Charlie Hartmann stirred the devil’s
mixture. Mrs. Charles Roice whisked
the celestial food, something light and
unsubstantial as cherubs’ wings. Mrs.
Wilfred Race’s orange-and-marshmallow
cake, with its magic mountain topping,
also disappeared quickly.
A welcomed guest at the party was
Mrs. C. R. Gamble; the “Night in
Dixie” on July 1 is to be her first
American ball in Melbourne. She and
her husband have been away in the
“States” for four years, and before
they left the auxiliary’s annual effort was
always a big bridge party in the Green
Mill. Among others present was Mrs.
R. H. Hunt, who will have to go to the
ball as a grass widow. Her husband is
in the U.S. on a business trip, and is at
present in Boston waiting for an Aus-
tralian-bound freighter which will give
him a sea trip through Panama. Another
Vice-Consul’s wife, Mrs. Wales Signor,
wore blue and a giddy little goblin hat,
and brought her knitting in case the com-
mittee meeting was late in starting.
Noticed with pencil and notebook was
Mrs. J. M. Lindsay, whose smart pearl-
grey ensemble included a long cape, a
raisin-colored scarf and a feather in her
beret. Mrs. Herbert Allen wore her
fur cape with distinction ; Mrs. R. G.
Ballantyne was in navy-blue ; Mrs. Jim
Welker was planning her campaign for
seeing that those who spend a Night in
Dixie don’t go thirsty. Mrs. Norman
Picot brought along her time and personal
chart, an invention by which all members
of the committee will know exactly when
and how long they will be on duty in
Dixie.
In the Jack Cato photo, is Mrs. Ken
Hardy, of Cotham-road, Kew, who was
a member of the St. George’s Hospital
dance which took place last night at No.
9 Darling-street. St. George’s has a
loyal number of supporters, some of them
doctors and their wives, who never fail
as each year comes round to remember
the exigencies of the building fund.
The Lyons brood is growing up. Dame
Enid had with her at the Mercy Hospi-
tal Ball four of her offspring, three
daughters and son Desmond (protesting,
for he doesn’t like dancing, though once
he got started he seemed to like it). The
girls refused to be official, and joined
Olive Williams’s party, where they found
plenty of partners, among them a tall
young barrister, Daven Wright, and Jack
Dwyer. The dance was a cabaret in
Earl’s Court. Those with bridge inten-
tions, among them Dr. and Mrs. R. A.
Manly, Dr. and Mrs. Little, Captain and
Mrs. Cyril Smith and the Malyon Cooks,
climbed the stairs to the balcony, but
the music proved their undoing, and
back they came to dance. Mrs. T. J.
Ryan arrived with a large party of some
20 people. Mrs. C. W. Batten’s white
satin gown had sequins strewn upon the
hem of its fan-pleated skirt. Mrs. Arthur
Fenton wore blue satin with pink and
lilac sash and pink flowers in her hair.
Her husband proved a handy man early
in the evening when he distributed a
couple of hundred colored balloons.
In the Broothorn photo, is Mrs.
J. D. G. Medley, wife of the University’s
Vice-Chancellor-elect, who commences his
duties in a few weeks’ time. Mrs. Medley
divided the first few days she was in
Melbourne between Melbourne Mansions
and the comfortable new two-storeyed
house in the University grounds where
she has already made an orderly arrange-
ment of furniture, furnishings and her
husband’s 1600-odd books. The Medleys,
who are from Tudor House, Moss Vale,
are both English, and came to Australia
in 1919. Mrs. Medley studied at Oxford,
but in her day the emancipation of
women was in its infancy, and women
students plucked few plums for their
work. The taking of degrees also was
taboo. Son David is now at Trinity
studying engineering, and daughter Diana
is at school at Ascham, N.S.W.
The Findon Harriers had a sparklingly
cold day for the opening meet of the
season at Wollert. In spite of the drought
there had been enough points of rain to
make going pleasantly soft and even to
splash some mud upon the feet of those
onlookers who did some reconnoitring
on foot. Horses, horsemen and cars of
hunt followers assembled at the crossing
of the ways, where four roads meet in
front of the Post Office, and afterwards
the riders came back to the same spot for
tea provided for them in the village hall.
Before he mounted, the Master, Bill
Seymour, wearing something county in
tweed coats, exhibited to his hunting pals
his small son Conway, a huntsman of the
next generation. After the field got away
those who were following stopped by the
wayside for picnic lunches. Among them
was Mrs. Seymour, who shared sand-
wiches and vacuum flasks with Mrs.
Nevil Fraser, Valerie Crowther and Mrs.
Bill Stocks, whose husband was out after
the fox —or the hare, as the quarry proved
to be. Mrs. Lennox Spiers was with
Mrs. D. M. Cumming, whose fur-lined
boots were just the thing for such an out-
of-doors afternoon. Mrs. Eddie Hayne
brought her two children out to see the
fun. Mrs. Alan Scott and Anne
McAuley were among well-known hunts-
women who came only as spectators.
Edith Howat brought her horse out, but
changed her mind about riding and fol-
lowed the chase by car. Diana Landale
was with her father, also a motorist.
Mrs. M. McAlister was there; also
David Knox, who arrived by utility
truck. The S. McGregors reminded
daughter Helen to watch out for rabbit
holes, for it was her first participation in
a hunt. Enid Thompson was among
the smartly-turned-out; she had a fall,
but with no ill-effects even to her sense
of humor. The most noticeable person
in the field was young Sandra Baillieu,
who rode sidesaddle, the only other
adherent of the old style being Lyall
Madden. Sandra’s was a habit, perfect
in tailoring, of chestnut brown, worn
with brown boots and black hat.
Commander and Mrs. H. L. Quick
were farewelled at many parties prior to
leaving for Sydney, where the Com-
mander and his wife will make their
future home, he having been transferred
to the naval depot at Edgecliff.
W. Pitsch, a photographer who has
recently arrived from London, has among
his records of pictures of the monasteries
of Mt. Athos in Greece, where nothing
feminine, human or otherwise, has been
permitted to enter for many centuries.


m
as
sS
O
«.V2
nis° r pe^
W>
M QrQ
oQ
&
d<*
fi*fy»!
ffe
bl e
e ;
f?
0 s
pp
*r
An
fh e
eM
K‘ d bin* n<3
C°
Young Men—Middle Aged Men
and even Very
Old Men-
ALL NEED THIS
Special Help
Age
itself
means little
WHEN
Each year strain on your vital organs
increases. More and more you risk Illness
and Breakdown through Kidney, Bladder,
Acid, Blood-Pressure, Rheumatic and
Urinary Ills . . .
The cause of that rapid decline in health, comfort and
power which starts towards middle age, and gains speed
increasingly, is, primarily, Kidney-Bladder Acid Weakness.
“Mystery Pains,” Rheumatic Attacks, Nervous, Dizzy
Spells, Swellings and Urinary Irregularities are early signs.
Dire ills can follow if neglect persists. Why take the risk ?
Weary Bodies Revive—YOUTH RETURNS—as
Causes of Decline are Conquered by
HARRISON'S PILLS .
Harrison’s Pills safely and surely strengthen Kidneys and
Bladder, Expel Uric Acid, Kill Germs and Revitalise all
the Vital Organs.
This famous Remedy produces surprising improvements in
health and vigour. See the end of limb weariness, of
haggard appearance and despondent outlook. Note the
end of constipation. See a betterment even in your vision.
Feel yourself become a good ten years younger as
Harrison’s Pills end the causes of ageing ills and instil new
power into every nerve and sinew; say good-bye to your
aches, pains, inflammation and stiffness. Feel your step
gain new youthful elasticity; hear your friends remark at
the vast improvement in your spirits and in your bearing.
For the vast majority of people, Harrison’s Pills provide
the most effective method known of prolonging useful,
healthy, pain-free life.
And, in the added
years, who knows what
further astounding
marvels of rejuvenation
science may devise?
df
mm m m
Kidney
Acid
Troubles
are Conquered
AND
ASSOCIATED
END
that
ageing
Painful
BACK-
ACHE
with
HARRISON'S PILLS
This Safe, Sure Way
m '
Diaqram shouuinq Tqpes of
Needle-point Uric Acid f.rijstals
Like splintered glass, Uric Acid
Crystals tear nerves and muscles.
Tiny painpoints that with every move
make you gasp and limp—weaken
you and spoil life. Rheumatism is
deadly. It starts with kidney-failure.
Cleanse your system of the trouble-
causing acids, crystals and germs;
heal your raw, weakened kidneys by
taking Harrison’s Pills. This remedy
effectively reaches the spot. In quick
time sufferers who have failed to get
benefit from other remedies find
Harrison’s Pills bring grateful ease.
HAMSISON’S PILLS Restore ell the
llltKflwlS " The one great and undeniably
effective Remedy for thoroughly
reaching and permanently removing the most insidious causes of ageing ills
is that authorised by the distinguished Dr. Harrison, of London, whose signa*
ture appears on every package of genuine Harrison's Pills.
VITAL
Harrison’s Pills combine the most valu-
able known agents for combating the
incidence of Blood Pressure, Glandular
Disorders, Groin Pains and Swellings,
Excessive or Painful Urination, Bladder
Distress, Rheumatism in Joints. Hands,
Feet, Arms or Legs. Cramp, Arthritis,
Neuritis. Sciatica, Lumbago, etc. Harri-
son’s Pills conquer Kidney, Bladder and
Blood Germs, Acids, Poisons. Crystals
and Deposits. Action is sure and entirely
SAFE. Puffiness beneath the Eyes,
Pallor, Muddy Skin, Broken Sleep,
Blurred Vision, and Head. Neck and
Shoulder Pains disappear. A new sense
of REAL fitness comes. A NEW LEASE
OF VIGOUR IS GAINED . . .
THIS IS GUARANTEED:
HARRISON’S PILLS bring benefit at
once. Increasingly, they free you from
your weakness and pain. Try a single
package. If it doesn’t help you—money
back! Chemists and Stores sell Harri-
son’s Pills. 3 sizes: 2/-, 3/- and 5/-. If
preferred, order by post from the Aus-
tralian Distributors —Amalgamated Lab-
oratories, Sydney.
HARRISONS PILLS
mm 3
H
■


Introducing
RADIO’S WONDER SET OF 1938
LIST OF PARTS.
m is
Hi
: | HH
mgm s
l
Chassis
Power Transformer ...
2-Gang Condenser
2 Electrolytics
3 Sockets
1 Volume Control
2 Special Coils
1 R.F. Choke
1 .0001 Mica Condenser
1 .01 Mica Condenser
1 .002 Mica Condenser .
1 .0005 Mica Condenser
2 .1 Tubular
1 lmeg. Kesistor
1 .25nieg. Resistor
1 .smeg. Resistor
1 .lmeg. Resistor
1 150 ohm lOOma
I Rola Speaker
1 80 Valve
1 6F7
1 EF3G
1 Cabinet
2 Knobs
Sundry Hardware
s. d.
2 0
6 6
5 <i
5 6
1 4
2 6
6 0
(>
1 0
1 6
1 0
1 0
1 6
4
4
4
4
6
14 6
11 3
18 6
15 0
14 6
8
1 8
£5 15 0
THE “ASHBOX” MIDGET
(as described in this week’s technical article).
Complete in attractive cabinet,
£6/5/-
Kit of Quality Parts, £5/15/-; or Assembled in Cabinet, £6/5/-,
Plus 7/- License Plate.
We Invite You to Call and Hear This Remarkable Set.
Obtainable from
RECO RADIO
9 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY. PHONE: MA7249.
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
SAM’s new power of 1000
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city-
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are’ YOUR cus-
tomers?
WV9
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PACES.
THE ASHBOX MIDGET.
Many interesting applications can be had with multi-element valves; here
they are included in the design of a remarkably effective and compact
receiver employing only two valves and rectifier, but with a reception
performance fully equal to many small superhets. Developed for the
cricket Test season, it is an ideal receiver for bedside use.
Overseas magazines give
details of a variety of
“stunt” receivers in which
dual valves of the penta-
grid or Class-B types are
used to conserve space.
Some of these receivers
work very well. The Ash-
box Midget is, in the writer’s experience,
the most outstanding example of a fool-
proof small receiver using a valve in a
manner other than it was originally in-
tended for. It was developed, after
many weeks of trial with various valve
combinations, by G. Birks, of Reco
Radio, Royal Arcade, Sydney, and, as
outlined here, it is a simple matter to
build it up from the kit of parts.
The receiver, in effect, is a tuned R.F.
type, but because of attention to coil
data it has plenty of sensitivity and selec-
tivity. With an aerial 300 ft. long, sus-
pended directly underneath the transmit-
ting aerial of station 2UW, this remark-
able little receiver tuned in 2GB at
excellent speaker volume. Being a T.R.F.
type, it is free from spurious whistles,
often present in small superhets when
used very near to a transmitter.
Circuit Details.
A 6F7 triode-pentode does double duty
as R.F. amplifier and detector —the triode
portion—and is capacity-coupled to a
Philips EL3G output pentode operating
a midget dynamic speaker. Plate and
heater voltages are from a 350-volt power
pack with 80 rectifier. Valves of all
possible types were tried in the R.F.-
detector position, the final choice going
to the 6F7 type because of its selectivity.
The recently-introduced 6JBG was found
to be particularly sensitive, but not quite
selective enough for use where the re-
ceiver is very close to a station. The
advanced constructor could, however,
apply this valve in many country towns
where 240 A.C. is on tap.
Various coil designs were tested. Selec-
tivity was improved by the use of Sirufer
iron cores, and these are supplied with
the kit of parts or the complete receiver.
Examination of the circuit shows that the
grid coils, LI and L 2, tuned by the stand-
ard condenser gang, Cl and C 2, are
applied in the grid of the pentode and
triode sections of
the 6F7 respec-
tively. An aerial-
coupling coil is
provided for LI,
and a primary wind-
ing couples to L 2 in
the usual manner
from the pentode
plate.
The inclusion of
the R.F. choke in
the circuit is im-
portant, the choke
materially affecting
the stability of the
R.F. section.
Volume control on
both R.F. and de-
tector sections is
applied by the
5000-ohm potentio-
meter in the
cathode, with one
end connected to
aerial in the con-
ventional manner.
The socket num-
bers of Fig. 1 cor-
respond with the
valve charts, and
Number 4 on the
6F7 is the triode
plate, which is
capacity-coupled to
the grid of the
EL3G through a
.01-mica condenser.
The screen of the
6F7 is fed through
a .lmeg. resistor
and by-passed by a
. 1 condenser. The
plate of the triode
section is also by-
passed by a
,0005mfd.mica con-
denser. If this con-
denser is omitted
some instability
might be present
in the detector.
No regeneration is introduced in the
circuit, but the usual trick of introducing
feed-back between control grids by twist-
ing an insulated wire around sufficiently
will put the detector on the edge of oscil-
lation if desired. Normally such a con-
dition is not necessary, the receiver being
amply sensitive.
Back-biasing is applied to the EL3G
so that the first Bmfd. electrolytic filter
condenser in the power pack is insulated
above earth. With the .smeg. resistor
in the grid of the EL3G the 150-ohm re-
Fig. 1. —The circuit diagram, with essential values, of this small but highly-efficient midget receiver.
Socket connections are shown as seen from underneath.
sistor from H.T. centre-tap to earth com-
pletes the biasing.
The speaker field coil, 1500 ohms in
this case, serves as the filter choke and
provides speaker excitation at the same
time. The .002
mica condenser
from the plate of
the EL3G to earth
is a tone compen-
sator.
Fig. 3 shows how
the components are
arranged above the
chassis, with the
6F7 immediately
behind the conden-
ser gang on the left,
and the EL3G and
80 in between the
power transformer
and speaker on the
right. All resistors,
fixed condenser s
and coils are
mounted under-
neath, also the
Bmfd. electrolytics,
which are of the
tubular pigtailed
dry type.
Performance.
Operation of the
receiver is very
easy, just tuning and
volume controls to
handle. Those who make it up from the
kit of parts will find no trouble in track-
ing the tuned circuits, the coils being
wound ready for the condenser gang.
Lining up any T.R.F. circuit is more
straightforward than with a superhet.
Used anywhere around Sydney, no
trouble is experienced in playing all the
local stations without interference with
only a small indoor aerial. In fact, the
receiver is sensitive enough to pull in the
stations when using a finger on the aerial
terminal. Tested in an average suburban
location, several inter-State stations were
received at good volume with an outside
aerial. One of these receivers used at
Clovelly in the shadow of the 2BL trans-
mitter has no trouble in tuning in all
Sydney stations. It is very handy where
a receiver must often be moved from one
room to another, and with the kit of
parts priced at only £5 15s. and the corn-
Fig. 2. —The Ashbox Midget sells complete for £6 5s. in
this attractive little cabinet.
plete job at £6 ss. from Reco Radio the
Ashbox Midget is a topnotch receiver
within the reach of all pockets.
The name Ashbox was chosen to co-
incide with the demand for suitable re-
ceivers for the cricket Test season. A
battery version for two- or six-volt valves
may be forthcoming in the future.
These are the parts used in the com-
plete construction:
Chassis, drilled ready for assembly.
Power transformer, two-gang condenser, two
electrolytics.
Three sockets, one volume control, two special
iron-core coils. . ,
One R.F. choke, one .OOOlmfd. mica condenser,
one .Olmfd. mica condenser, one .uuznuu-


<OR 'ft/
EMPIRE’S MILLIONS
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
"*ci
v m
wgm' k
when your set fails as the
: hug lit!
English wickets are falling and Australia is piling
up victory runs.
Be wise, and have your set overhauled immedi-
ately by your local radio supplier and re-valve
with new microsensitive
RADIOTRONS
The World's Standard Radio Valves
mica condenser, one .0005mfd. mica con-
denser.
Two .lmfd. tubular condensers, one lmeg. re-
sistor, one .25meg. resistor.
One .smeg. resistor, one .lmeg. resistor, one
1500-ohm lOOma. resistor.
One Rola speaker, 1500 ohms field; transformer
to match EL3G.
One 80 rectifier valve.
One 6F7 triode-pentode valve.
One Philips EL3G output pentode.
One cabinet, as supplied with kit.
Two control knobs.
There is nothing difficult about the
construction of the receiver from the kit
Fig. 3. —Showing the compact assembly
on the small chassis. The iron core coils
are mounted underneath.
of parts, but it is advisable to mount the
speaker on the chassis as the last item,
so that other parts will be more readily
accessible in the assembling process.
D. B. Knock.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Location, Miles, south Queensland.
Receiver —Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-
waver, described B. 28/4/’37.
Heard one night recently just after
midnight a Riga, Latvia, station on about
19.8 metres. It was strong and clear, but
not quite comparable with the three
Berlin stations on the 19-metre band.
Daventry was not audible at this period.
From 12.30 p.m. DJB, DJQ and DJR
are heard on 19 metres, DJD and DJO
on 25 metres, and DJN on 31 metres. At
1.30 p.m. DJD, DJO and DJB give
English sessions. TPA4 and TPA3 on
25.60 and 25.24 metres are heard nicely
with English news at 1 p.m. RNE com-
mences strongly at this time, and is very
good by 1.30 p.m. Around 2 p.m. DJN
is very strong, and reception is better
than the 25-metre stations. At 3 p.m.
all the Daventry stations are good. GSJ
is still the best of the Empire stations.
A six-valve A.C. superhet is under
test, and, except for double-spotting,
it performs well. As usual, however, the
superhet fails to get the weak stations
audible on the T.R.F. During the morn-
ings the 31-metre stations are still the
best, and are now more numerous. The
25-metre band is good but goes dead
earlier, and the 19-metre band is quite
good. While moving to this location
from Quilpie, I listened in at Cunnamulla,
and at 9 p.m. VLR and VK3ME were
very weak, but KZRM and ZBW were
roaring in.
VPD2 is easily the best 31-metre station
at this time. This is a noisy reception
location, as they are plenty of electric-
motors running all day and no provision
for interference suppression.
K. B. G.
Amateur Chatter.
Ray Lawson, killed in the disastrous
crash of an R.A.A.F. Avro-Anson
bomber at Greenhills, near Liverpool
(N.S.W.), whilst on Citizen Force exer-
cises, had many years of radio experience
from the early days of broadcasting in
Australia. In 1936 he was prominent in
the activities of a Tamworth (N.S.W.)
glider club, and at the time of his fatal
injury was serving as wireless operator
with the C.A.F. on
week-end training.
The large num-
ber of American
’phones heard call-
ing VK2NS nightly
on 20 metres is
proof that this old-
timer, whose call-
sign has been miss-
ing in recent years,
is again very much
in evidence from
Bathurst (N.S.W.).
VK2NS is well re-
membered for his
work on 80-metre
’phone during
earlier years, and
was a winner of
one of the Senior
B.E.R.U. contests.
A new ultra-
high-frequency re-
ceiver completed
by the writer is suitable for com-
plete coverage of the useful amateur
and commercial ultra-highs. The tuning
range is from 4.5 to 12 metres in two
stages, and valves are 956 separately-
tuned R.F., 76 regenerative detector, and
41 pentode for headphone output. Re-
sults are extremely satisfactory, and this
receiver will be described in the near
future. A useful marker for seven metres
about Sydney is given by broadcasting
station 2CH’s simultaneous transmission
on 42mc. It can be heard at full volume
for many miles around Sydney, both day
and night.
The new “noise limiter” introduced by
Jones in his Five-metre Super-Gainer,
described in “Radio” for May, 1938, has
been incorporated in the T.R.F. 56mc.
receiver used regularly by the writer.
The results are striking, and the efficiency
of this form of “limiter” is fully
demonstrated by the complete elimination
of voltage surge noises caused by inter-
ruptions in the 240-volt A.C. power sup-
Forerunner of the modern screen-grid
and R.F. pentode valve—the 5625. This
was an English development in 1927,
and, although not economical in filament
consumption, the double-ended design
of the 5625 had much to recommend it.
ply. Without the silencer, the movement
of an electric-light switch causes a
hearty crack in the receiver, but with
the silencer in no sound other than the
wanted signal can be heard. The terrific
popping normally caused by car ignition
systems is reduced to a mere murmur.
As this form of “noise limiter” is easily
adaptable to any form of receiver with-
out any circuit changes, it should be
widely popular.
VK2NO.
Radio Comment.
“D.8.K.”: Nothing is more annoying
than to have an aerial halyard break and
run through the pulley at the top of a
high mast, but the method illustrated here
will overcome the difficulty of replacing
it. In the end of a long piece of wood
(A), about square, a fin. hole is
bored deep into the end grain. A piece
of -jin. iron bar has a hole bored at one
end, and one end of a ball of twine
threaded through and tied. The bar (B)
rests in the hole in the wood, with the
string end down. The projecting part of
the iron bar is pushed up through the
pulley (C) at the top of the pole and a
sharp pull exerted on the string (D). The
bar will shoot up through the pulley and
drop to the ground with the string
through the pulley. All that is then
necessary is to fasten the end of the string
to the new halyard and to haul it up. If
a long length of redwood cannot be ob-
tained, several bamboos can be lashed
together and a wooden fixture for the
“jumping bar” lashed to the top.
* * * %
“Querex”: The 2.5-volt series of valves
are by no means out of fashion for use
in the input stages of a speech amplifier.
Much lower hum-level is encountered
with 57’s used as pentodes or high-gain
triodes than when the 6C6 or 6J7 types
in the 6.3-volt series are used. Reason is
that there is less chance of A.C. pickup
in the grid circuit with the lower heater
voltage.
* * * *
“Querex”: The special R.F. pentode
“acorn” valves can be profitably used for
R.F. amplification at frequencies above
28mc., but' due care must be exercised
in the arrangement of the valve socket
and by-pass capacities in order to avoid
interlocking between tuned circuits.
Better isolation of the R.F. stage can be
obtained if the valve is used in the socket
with the long end (plate) projecting
through instead of the grid. The sup-
pressor and screening-grid connections
are then merely reversed at the socket.
With the valve used this way the socket
can be mounted on the R.F. side of the
interstage partition, and the only portion
projecting through to the detector is the
plate connection. A brass cap fitted over
the plate stem and bolted to the partition
with a hole large enough to allow the
plate pin to pass through gives more com-
plete screening.
Empire Broadcasting Service.
All programme details are announced
from the Daventry stations in Greenwich
mean time. The correction for local
Australian time is as follows:
Hours.
West • • • • .. .. + 8
South .. .. .. .. '! + 9!
Queensland +lO
New South Wales +lO
Victoria .. .. .. .. +lO
Tasmania .. .. .. .. +lO
The various frequencies in use for
British Empire broadcasting are:
Frequency, Wave-length,
Me. Metres.
GSA 6.05 .. 49.59
GSB 9.51 .. 31.55
GSC 9.58 .. 31.32
GSD 11.75 .. 25.53
GSE 11.86 .. 25.29
GSF 15.14 .. 19.82
GSG 17.79 .. 16.86
GSH 21.47 .. t 3.97
GSI 15,26 .. 19.66
GSJ 21.53 .. 13.93
GSK 26.10 .. 11.49
GSL 6.11 .. 49.10
GSN 11.82 .. 25.38
GSO 15.18 .. 19.76
GSP 15.31 .. 19.60
GST 21.55 .. 13.92
"Radio in Review."
An attractive souvenir outlining radio’s
part in Australia’s 150th Anniversary
celebrations has been published by the
Institution of Radio Engineers (Australia).
It is a well-illustrated history of the
development of radio communication in
Australia, including the history of the
1.R.E., with a complete list of member-
ship, and the programme of the recent
World Radio Convention held in Sydney.
“Radio in Review” can be had from the
secretary, 30 Carrington-street, Sydney,
price 2s.
Push-button selection. This diagram
shows that pre-tuned receivers are, like
many other modern radio applications,
based on older developments. This
diagram first appeared in an English
magazine in July, 1929. Push-button
tuning was described in various publica-
tions as early as 1928.


15 YEARS'
GUARANTEE.
INVINCIBLE M ENGINES.
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in 1,2, 4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
>A7.V
~'rr r nr')V!A\'['
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & Co. Ltd., SYDNEY
Incorporated 1893 in Victoria.
We offer you the best facilities for the selling of your CLIP on the
SYDNEY MARKET—the WORLD’S BEST organisation for the sale of
WOOL.
Our 90 years of experience enable us to give you efficient SERVICE in
the sale of your WOOL, STOCK and PRODUCE.
WE ARE READY to help you with advice or finance, and invite you to
call and see us regarding your needs.
OUR MERCHANDISE DEPARTMENT can supply anything you require.
Telegrams: GOLDSBRO. Box 484aa, G.P.0., Sydney.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Blowfly Costs £4,000,000 p.a.
“Ghanam”: Fly is a pest in every
country except those, such as India,, in
which sheep are unusually coarse-woolled.
Perhaps the fact that the basic blood of
the pioneer Australian animals was
Indian had something to do with early
immunity in this country —the first sheep-
men often wrote of their surprise at the
absence of the fly. Now, as in the Argen-
tine, the merino is the best fly-bait.
It has been believed that strike is
much more common and vigorous in
warm districts, but recent figures quoted
by M. J. Mackerras, of the C.S. and 1.R.,
discount this. Britain has had fly trouble
at least since the sixteenth century, and
the incidence in England and Wales
ranges from 12 p.c. to 40 p.c. In Scot-
land the range goes higher, and six
properties covering 14,100 sheep are men-
tioned on which the loss was roughly
£35 per 1000 animals, which corresponds
with N. S. Wales figures. S’African wool
loss is £lOO,OOO a year, without taking
into account treatment cost and losses
from deaths and injury.
But Australia, with its high cut of
wool (91b.), exceeded per sheep only in
Maoriland and the Argentine, and its
preponderance of merinos, is the heaviest
sufferer.
Last year H. G. Belschner, of the
N.S.W. Agricultural Department, made a
survey of eight properties in N. S. Wales.
The results panned out as follows:
Stud Properties.
Wool and Treatment Total
Sheep. Sheep Loss. Cost. Cost.
No. 1 . . 40,000 £6200 £2272 £8472
No. 2 . . 20,000 3062 1302 4364
No. 3 . . 20,000 2340 668 3008
Flocks.
No. 4 . . 20,000 1541 412 1953
No. 5 .. 20,000 396 425 821
No. 6 . . 20,000 162 226 388
No. 7 . . 20,000 125 132 357
No. 8 .. 20,000 62 107 169
Among stud sheep audited the average
expenditure and loss was £l9B per 1000.
among flock sheep £35 per 1000, and
in some of the flocks the average cost
seems to have been abnormally low.
Even taking £35 per 1000 as the average,
the loss for the whole Commonwealth
would be in the region of £4,000,000,
not counting loss of unborn progeny and
loss of future wool due to constitutional
effects.
In some districts loss must be heavier
because of lack of rigid and regular
treatment. At Canberra for four years
a small flock of aged merino ewes has
been kept, unprotected. The incidence
of strikes per animal in any year has
never been less than 1.07 or more than
1.65, and never less than 59 p.c. of all
animals have been struck. In one year
it was 75 p.c.
Blowfly damage is summarised by
Mackerras as due to loss of sheep, which
may be up to 28 p.c. in bad outbreaks;
to Joss of wool, up to lib. per animal.
Tenderness of fleece, also, is blamed
largely on the fly from the fact that in
a heavy strike year 85 p.c. of the Com-
monwealth’s experimental flock have
been found to carry tender wool. Lastly,
constitution and growth are affected.
Efficient and regular jetting and crutch-
ing seem to be the most payable methods
of keeping down loss, even thpugh the
initial cost seems large. Mackerras, too,
leans to the belief that “the advantage of
the Mules operation or selective breeding
for a plain-bodied flock is that consider-
able permanent protection is obtained,
without appreciably increasing the cost
of production.”
The Right Breeds.
“Lani”: The Australian Meat Council
is doing good work with its fat-lamb
competitions, and the nature of the
entries shows that many lamb-producers
are working along the right lines.
In the last two competitions there were
140 entries, 131 of them for Class I—
lambs sired by Southdown rams—but
there was cause for disappointment in
that 59 of the entries came from S.A.
and 34 from Tasmania, whereas the two
States which turn off most of the mutton
and lamb exports (N.S.W. and Vic.)
could produce only 10 and 17 entries
respectively in the class. The Grand
Championship went to Tasmanians N. F.
and J. A. Badcock.
A dozen years ago I toured Tasmania
with a British farmer who had been with
me a year earlier on an inspection of
British sheep districts, butcheries and
shows. He was convinced that Tas-
“Step on it, boy—I reckon Well just make it!“
mania could produce a quarter of British
mutton needs if it would standardise
its breeds and get down to European
methods, which suit the island climate
better than they do any other part of
the Commonwealth.
The Meat Board will not be nearly so
readily congratulated next year. Its
advisers must know that - the Southdown
cross will give the type of lamb best
suited to the British market, but it has
been decided to open Class I this coming
season to Southdown, Dorset Down,
Hampshire Down and Shropshire ram
crosses. Class II will include Ryeland,
Suffolk or Dorset Horn cross; and Class
111 Lincoln, English Leicester, Border
Leicester and Rpmney Marsh crosses.
If the council cannot estimate the cross
which will produce an ideal export car-
cass under district conditions, it’s about
time it could. The British in mutton* the
Danes in pork and the Argentine in beef
know exactly what British markets need..
The council should study British standard
carcasses, determine the breed which is
likely to give the best results and then set
out to encourage Australian breeders to
standardise. A step in the right direction
would be to import a run of British prize
carcasses, hold a show of Australian lamb
and mutton, using the imports as com-
parisons, fix an Australian standard and
then set out a basic breeding specifi-
cation.
Sydney Sheep Show.
“Zedo”: In spite of drought merino
entries for this year’s Sydney Sheep
Show, which begins on June 22, are
greater than last year —355 against 351.
Most of the best-known studs are repre-
sented in the general classes, and there
are 10 entries for the best exhibit of five
merino sheep for the Stonehaven award.
There .will be 170 Corriedales, 39
Romneys and 19 Polwarths. But there is
a heavy falling off in Southdowns.
The annual sheep sales will begin at
the Showground on the Monday follow-
ing the close of the exhibition.
Epsom Salts in Licks.
“P. 8.”: There’s little value in the 15
p.c. to 20 p.c. Epsom salts sheepowners
ordinarily put into licks. The dose to
purge a sheep is almost four ounces,
while anything less than loz. to ljoz.
daily is sheer waste. If a lick has 20 p.c.
salts, and a sheep must consume loz.
a day, obviously it must get 4oz. ot
common salt, dicalcic, etc., as well, and
this is probably never reached even by
mineral-starved stock.
To make Epsom salts useful about 60
p.c. of the lick—salt, 25 p.c., and dicalcic,
15 p.c.—is called for.
One sheep must eat 2oz. a day of this
mixture, so it has to be palatable and
attractive. Oil of aniseed (a few drops)
is a powerful flavoring liked by sheep.
Molasses may be added, and should be
used liberally, and undiluted. > It is laxative,
in itself if .enough is used.
Another dodge is to include about
three parts of bran plus cottonseed or.
peanut meal with otte part of lick, well
mixed. This. is effective, but the lick
should always be kept under cover, as
it soon deteriorates with moisture.
, A Fox-proof Lambing Paddock.
“H.A.L.”: A squatter in the Nara-
coorte : (S.A.) district has a property
adjoining a big area of rough scrub
which harbor's manyffoxes: He set aside
a paddock of some 200 acres near the
homestead for lambing, enclosing it with
a vermin-proof fence, built by fitting
arms of bent angle-iron to the tops of
the ordinary posts. Double netting was
used, and the result was a 6ft. barrier
impassable to anything bigger than a rat
and which no dog or fox could jump or
climb, owing to the outward overhang at
the top.
It was expensive, but the owner is
emphatic about its being a good invest-
ment “If I had invested the money in
anything else, I’d be lucky to get 5 per
cent. on it,” he says. “But my in-
creased lambing returns bring in nearly
20 percent, a year.”
Pleuro-pneumonia Beaten.
“Silky Bag”: The C.S. and I.R. has
done a fine job in cleaning up the pleuro
problem by developing an immunising
vaccine and a diagnostic test.
The vaccine —over half a million doses
have been distributed —gives full immu-
nity for at least a year. Injections are
made into the tail and have violent
reactions. If they don’t the vaccine is
likely not to have “taken.” In about 1
p.c. of cattle the end of the tail is lost.
The complement fixation test for
pleuro animals in a herd solves a diffi-
culty that has always been at the back
of fresh outbreaks. The practice has
been to slaughter every visibly-infected
animal in an outbreak, but this method
failed to get at apparently healthy
animals which only showed “light-up”
symptoms of pleuro when travelled.
“Complement fixation” detects infected
cattle from blood samples.
Obviously wild range cattle cannot be
bled and vaccinated with the same ease
as dairy animals ; however, vaccinating
each year’s calves at branding round-ups
may be effective in wiping out pleuro
even here in a few seasons. With the
test; and vaccine it can be beaten in well-
settled : areas, where it has caused most
trouble. .1
Beef Comes Back.
“X T” : It makes pleasing reading that
at Bbnalbo (N.S.W.) Show the outstand-
ing feature was the beef-cattle section.
When our grandfathers were in knicker-
bockers- Dyraaba, Gordon Vale, Wyan-
garie, Yugilbar, Tabulam and other prop-
erties up that way- bred famous beefs.
Actually, there is no better breeding
country in the world, to my mind, than
some of the “border.”
This year the Bonalbo Show president,
N. Johnston, turned up with a showing
of 25 Herefords, as many as most indi-
viduals bring to a first-class metropolitan
show. There were 18 beef classes. It
seems a good hint for beef stud breeders
to encourage coastal shows in suitable
districts by donating special prizes and
getting members of stud breeding
societies to take a hand.
Victorian Wheat.
“Hortus”: Victoria still tops the other
States in average yield. Its record for
1937-38 season was 17.93 bushels. N. S.
{“Land” continued on page 44.)


if
HH
•i!xifv!y: ;: xif : :lx : xfl : : : ; ; : : i:
m
111
: :■
111
< -.yi ■
HI
H
IH
li
i»Ili
m
3’/ %< * f J
i
I
# ■
. i
B
BBS
Sli:;:' : ': : :: • l ;
HI
It
ill
:■*
m-w'x
m
111
MIMIM
mi
■
■
■■l m
I;fff Iff
—■
X
vll-1:11illI f I: li:li : 'fiff'■■ :ilf■ ;f : i : -I : filf'f.llff
H
>y.
mSSSBSSmSms^I
t *
Ifilli
HU
fifilffi:
m
n
mMMmm
11!!!
m
m
if 111! 1
■
illl
mm
•VI
s
BBS
H
H H
HiißllliiH
8
Hi
■
i I
1111
■
■
x f-xV:-:- : fx-x xx/xf
llili»l
wiixfx-ix x ; :f -.x-.y •:
li
fell
m
ilfffflfl
'
I
11
111111!!.
■Hi
;
mm— i|
iii' ■ ■
lit
liiiil
iliiil
Ili
If fil
111
111!
m
m
>■
■ SS
m
.1 I
llfl!
H illllil
m
*
■M
■Hi
H 1
■
li
m
m
sgs
H 1 ffi
88888
•iixilll
ini
I .i:f 1 : :V X:-I'f ; vlff: I
ifef
;; l
m
hMII M
M
Hg
I
■■
I:: llf .
m
v >
“The years gave beauty and lordliness so grand —
Storm or tempest could not destroy.'
—James Hansen (“Lords of the Forest").
"I" H E mellowing influence of age and the
distillers' skill of old combine in giving us
a Spirit of the greatest medicinal value in . ..
CHATEAU TAN UN DA BRANDy
TUCKER AND CO. PTY., LIMITED.
SYDNEY.


fd
AND
DOLLARS
I N
N E W (S 0 R K
FRANCS IN PARIS
Wherever you may go throughout the world
you will find that Bank of New South Wales
Travellers’ Cheques provide a safe and con-
venient means of meeting travelling expenses.
These cheques are issued in amounts of £2, £5
and £lO and are accepted by Banks, Shipping
and Railway Companies, Air Services, Hotels,
Stores and Tourist offices everywhere.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Obtainable from any branch of the Bank of
New South Wales.
341 C. 1938
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Don’t Suffer
with Piles
NO need to suffer the tor-
menting irritation of itching
or bleeding piles when you can
get quick relief by beginning at
once to use Doan's Ointment.
This special pile prescription is
healing and soothing. Even stub-
born cases which have resisted
other treatment quickly yield to
this preparation. Let Doan's
Ointment give you the relief you
so sorely need. Refuse all sub-
stitutes. Get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
n
HI
ill
SATISFIED!
We should say he was!
You will also be agreeably satisfied by the
smooth smoking and aromatic flavour these
Empire Tobaccos give. But more satisfying still
are the ridiculous prices at which we are able
to supply the public. These •Empire-grown
tobaccos are manufactured at our own factory
and come direct to you—no middle profits.
A Briar or Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch,
Cigarette Lighter or Holder Is included with all
orders over £l. ALL LINES BOTH IN PIPE
AND CIGARETTE BLENDS.
Per lb.
Sweet crop, mild
All British, mild
Riverhead Gold, medium ..
Old Peter, medium
Cavendish, strong
Beech Nut, medium . .
Africander, mellow and mild
Soldiers’ Own, mild
Normandie, medium
Winning Post, medium
Three Bells, strong ..
Bird’s Eye, medium .. ..
Latakia, in pipe only
White Lodge, medium
White Lodge, light . .
Barlock Flake, light and dark
Cahills, medium
Union Leader, medium
Tender Leaf, medium
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only
Special Heavy Extra ..
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild
“Skipper.” medium
“Big Hit,” strong
“Three Sailors”
“Royal Navy Nuggets” . .
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks
“P.M.” Dark Plug
Zig Zags ..
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add 6d. per ib. Postage in
Add 1/- per Ib. Postage in other States.
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/9
6/9
7/3
7/9
8/-
8/-
8/-
10/-
10/-
11/-
8/6
10/9
11/-
11/-
8/-
6/-
7/6
7/6
7/6
7/6
7/6
7/6
6/6
6/6
5 for 1/-
COMBINED GROWERS i
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
VKRCIAI. ROAD, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Wales finished with 12.32, followed by
W.A. with 11.51 bushels.
In 1935 Victorian wheat was in a bad
way. The State’s standby in those days
was Free Gallipoli, a low-gluten-content
grain in little demand by overseas buyers.
Free Gallipoli sowings have been re-
duced to less than 12 p.c. of the total
acreage. Stronger milling types have
replaced it. Gurkha and Ranee are the
staples, the former leading with 45 p.c.
Gurkha was produced by the Vic.*
Department of Agriculture. It is im-
mune from flag smut and partially rust-
resistant. In Lowan County more than
half the crop was sown with this variety.
Jt is recommended as the main variety
for general sowing, especially on the
rich black land.
Free Gallipoli is still grown to a limited
extent. It is preferred to Gurkha for
the red and mixed ground, particularly
where a taller variety is needed. It is a
good yielder, but is difficult to strip with-
out cracking, and its flour is of lower
strength than the other varieties.
Dundee, a medium-strong N.S.W.
wheat, has been tried. It is not the equal
of Gurkha on black land, but has been
found worth a trial on the red and mixed
ground.
Baldwin, another medium - strong
wheat, is doing well but is inclined to be
weak in the straw. It has given higher
yields than Gallipoli and Dundee —about
equal to Gurkha. It is early maturing,
tall growing and produces large, attrac-
tive grain.
Watering Horses.
“Ager”: Give a stabled horse water
three times a day before feeding.
A horse’s stomach is small in propor-
tion to the size of the animal. To give
water after feeding weakens the digestive
juices. A fair amount of food in the
stomach and small intestine will be
washed out undigested. This may result
in indigestion and colic.
After a long trip it’s safest to water a
mile or so before the journey’s end, then
take the horse slowly home. In this way
are avoided chills and colic due to the
horse taking in a large quantity of water
while weakened by travel.
After hard or fast work don’t let the
horse get cold. Give him the water be-
fore he eats and while he is still warm.
The body temperature falls rapidly after
standing, and water given then intensifies
the cooling effect upon the whole system.
Old-man Saltbush.
“Kyamba”: Paddocks of “old-man”
saltbush as they were less than 50
years ago are rarely seen to-day except
in the very far inland. Yet, apart from
its great feed value, the saltbush makes
a splendid fire protection for home,
stock, fodder, crops and fences.
Old-man (A triplex nummularia ) grows
6ft. to 10ft. high in its natural state, and
it takes a fierce bushfire to scorch it.
Most stock except horses do well on it
mixed with pasture herbage. Its value
as stock food may be gathered from the
analysis: Oil, 2.18 p.c.; carbohydrates,
42.85 ; albuminoids, 16.45 ; woody fibres,
7.24; and ash, 31.28.
For planting in ordinary friable soils
as a firebreak I’ve found the following
plan best. Pulverise ground in patches
18in. square and lin. deep at 9ft. inter-
vals with hoe or fork. Make the centre
slightly concave (to catch moisture), and
sow three seeds in autumn or early
spring. Cover with £in. of fine light soil
or decayed manure. If beds are arranged
in “five of diamonds” shape the plants
will meet and form a dense growth which
should be about sft. high in nine months.
Clearing Mallee.
“H.A.L.”: Clearing mallee in the
18-20 in. rainfall belt won’t be successful
if the same methods which prove effec-
five in |pwr rainfall areas are used,
tive m lesser-raintaii areas are uscu.
Wheat is hopeless as a first crop where
the rainfall is 18in. or more; the mallee
shoots grow luxuriantly.
The first step is to raise the nitrogen
content of the soil, and this is accom-
plished by rolling down the scrub, put-
ting a running fire through it, and plough-
ing it with a special heavy disk scrub
plough. It is then left as a rough fallow
for a year, cross-ploughed with the same
implement to cut down the heavy growth
of shoots, and sown with peas.
The seed must be inoculated with one
of the special cultures (cost, Id. per acre)
supplied by the S.A. Dept, of Agriculture,
Peas will grow without it, but instead of
building up the soil fertility they lower
it, owing to the absence of nitrifying
bacteria on their roots. Fifteen bushels
or more p.a. can be harvested from the
peas, or they can be grazed off.
In the autumn, a fire-rake is put over
the ground to give the mallee shoots their
first scorching.
Wheat can be the next crop, with the
fire-rake used again to give the shoots
a second scorching. Oats form the third
crop, and the stubble is usually thick
enough to carry a running fire over the
now weakened shoots. Then, and not till
then, is the land ready to be sown down
to lucerne, evening primrose, Dwalganup
sub. clover and Wimmera ryegrass.
S. Australia has hundreds of thou-
sands of acres of this class of country
awaiting settlement. By using the above
methods it can be turned into pasture
which will carry two sheep per acre by
the fifth year. Failure to use that pre-
liminary rough fallow and peas sown
with inoculated seed as the first crop,
or any attempt to hurry up the process,
will lead to another block joining the
all-too-numerous “abandoned” list, with
the mallee growing more luxuriantly than
ever.
Tomato Culture.
“Ponderosa”: “Calliungal” (B.
12/5/’3B) omits a vital instruction to
those about to grow tomatoes in Central
Queensland. Unless a blanket of stock-
inet is spread over the seedlings im-
mediately they hit the air, they are sure
game for grasshoppers. At Bowen (N.Q.)
I lost every seedling in a bed 20ft. by
3ft. through leaving its overcoat off.
The needs are two stout bamboo poles
and a length of stockinet stretched
tight enough to keep it an inch or two
above the seedlings. The frame can
be raised by padding soil under the poles
until the plants are robust. By that time
grasshoppers have given up their assaults
and passed east.
“Canbra”: In Noosa (Q.) Shire carpet
grass (B. 13/4/’3B) is regarded as a pest.
Although horses and dry stock will hold
condition on it, it is practically valueless
for cows in milk. In very dry weather
it can be eradicated from cultivated land
easily enough, but in showery weathei
it is about as easy to wipe out as Lake
Cootharaba.
“Valerin”: Pitted cereal ensilage (the
only kind I can put up here in the
Riverina) does not appeal either as the
cheapest method of storing or as a
nutritional fodder. It is cheap enough
to put in but it is just Hades to get out,
and my experience is that it’s no better
than roughage and must be supplemented
by other foods. A stack of short, fine-
straw wheaten hay cut when coming into
flower is good enough for me.
“Murrawong”: “Kyamba” is wrong
when he says (B. l/6/’3B) that “a top is
the first stage wool goes through after
being scoured ready for combing.” “Top
is merely an abbreviation of the term
“combed top,” and has already been
combed. He talks, too, of a 60’s merino
as a medium type fibre. 60’s is strong
merino—medium is a 64’s.
“Walliew”: The demand for good
draughts and saddle horses still keeps
firm at northern and western Queensland
sales. Buyers at the recent Hughenden
sales came from Cairns, Mackay, Mutta-
burra and Richmond. Afton Downs
draughts brought up to £39. The same
station’s aged brood mares were sold
around £l5. Afton Downs blood horses,
by Sir Andrew out of stud brood mares,
ranged about 15 guineas. Katandra
draughts sold from £2l to £36 10s. Not-
tingham Downs sold draughts for £3O
10s. Somerville station also had pens
well up in price.
“Yeno Ham”: By the use of bulls
selected for type and production, Stan
Solomon, of Candelo (N.S.W.), has built
up a herd of Jerseys that return yields
up to 4501 b. of butterfat a year off grass.
Junior two-year-olds produce 2501 b. to
3001 b. of fat each. Unless heifers pro-
duce at least 2001 b. of fat in their first
lactation they are culled. Solomon has
had his herd recorded since the produc-
tion testing scheme began. For the past
20 years he has dehorned all calves with
caustic potash when they were 14 days
old. Up to that age he has found that
only one application of the caustic is
necessary. Pastures are improved and
paddocks subdivided.


-ffia/ujwteh.
14 DAYS
OPENING
*
/V^Yjr
#»*
\v
V
■"S3
M S ''le *'
li"
1 OteV’ _. .. • v tt otv ~..••
* e **ux\v s ° . •,
uV \v» v ®v e t e -9 I
"sr-"*it sS 1
c^°e
•■St» n^v°, s to rooAv eat t
A' S °^f eS " \9%
• \6/ 6
9^ B f p.\c£ fc.
ttss
zl
I
SPORTS COATS
—i n Fancy
Tweeds and
Donegals with
half belt and
action back; also
in plain backs.
19/6.
MS
Vi
LESS
2/
IN
THE
I
m
■■
IB
«
✓3
' I '
Ml- H
i P
Vi
Ihe smartest of Sports
Trousers in Grey Sergerette
with extended waist-band
and pleated fronts. Just
the thing for the holidays.
Tailor cut and finished.
HIGHGATES SPECIAL
LINE AT 19/11.
LESS 2/- IN THE £.
A great assortment of Worsted
Suits in the designs of the moment
in Greys, Navy and Black—in
regular i and % sizes. A perfect
fit for every figure and splendidly
tailored.
HIGHGATES PRICES FROM
63/- up to 7 GUINEAS.
LESS 2/- IN THE £.
%
I / A
Here’s the famous
“Dalfort” Hat in Pure
Fur Felt. This line is
exclusive to Highgates
and marvellous value.
HIGHGATES PRICE,
15/6.
Other qualities:
25/- to 37/6.
LESS 2 /- IN THE
2/- IN THE £
OFF MARKED
DOWN PRICES
TO CELEBRATE
THE OPENING
OF HIGHGATES
PITT ST. STORE!
H
0
H
D
H
i
£
5
N
*sr
ft
>
mf-
r*
1 it i
a
W
m
mL
!lr%f
BARGAINS IN
EVERY DEPARTMENT!
-Mi&hqaie&
CREDIT /CHAIN VSTORES OF AUSTRALIA
"WIGHGATES HOUSE", 332 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
(Nexf to John Dankv, near Liverpool Street)
HurstviHe Branch: Opposite Post Office
Ashfield Branch: Next to Wootworths


The BENGALI. Hand Forged Blue Steel RAZOR
Unique and attractive in appearance, perfect in
construction, it gives better and longer service
than any Razor yoy have ever used.
Sold with a definite Guarantee of Satisfaction.
,4 Creation of _. ... , „ „
Scientific Heat Sizes, Jin. gin., 2m., Black Handle .... 1~/6
Treatment . . . Xylo. Handle .... 15/-
Obtainable from all Wholesale and Retail Houses.
SHORT STORY
WRITING
F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and -arn
in Spare Tima!
I he most thorough and practicaj
Course of Training ever written?
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to wnte and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
I>o Eliza eth Street, Sydney
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Melbourne lady, educated, musical, organ-
ising and microphone experience, desires any
work connected with radio. —9857.
Young man, Sydney, crippled but active,
wants employment. Good clerk; can type. Go
anywhere.—9B76.
Digger, invalid pensioner, dairy-farming,
N.S.W., would be pleased to receive coat and
vest second-hand. Six feet tall. —9866.
Prospector wants partner, sleeping or active,
for Northern Territory gold proposition.—9B9B.
Young man, pensioner, Sydney, wants to rent
something in nature of habitable loft, with use
of conveniences, 4s. or ss. a week. —9875.
Agent who sells supplies and spare parts for
Hammond typewriters.—9B73.
Words of song chorus of which begins “Don’t
let us be strangers while we’re here together,”
and of song containing the line “If you meet a
maiden fair, anywhere.”—9BBo.
Words of Scottish song “The Road to tfie
Isles,” and of poem “The Whistle That the Wee
Herd Played.”—9B37.
To buy latest editions of Australasian text-
books on accountancy, secretarial and kindred
subjects.—9B39.
To buy surgical support for weak ankles,—
9878.
To buy The Anzac Book, a memorial volume
published just after the war.—9B69.
To buy Sunshine Sketches of a Little Town,
by Stephen Leacock, and Backblock Ballads,
by C. J. Dennis. —9902.
Nyngan (N.S.W.) resident wishes to buy
well-bred wire-haired fox-terrier. —9894.
To buy The Meanderings of Monty. —9B92.
Whereabouts of stage artists La Milo (Pansy
Montague) and A. D. Cruickshank. —9842.
Whereabouts of Lydia Voile, relation of
Harriett Tabbbnor. Cousin inquiring. (Reply
to R. E. Tabbenor, 2634 Emerald-street, Phila-
delphia, Penn., U.S.A.)
Information Sought.
(1) Prior to this year, what players have
scored 1000 runs during May in English
cricket? (2) What Australian players have
topped 2000 runs in England in a season?—
9930.
(1) W. G. Grace scored 1016 (average 112.88)
in 1895, Hayward 1074 (97.63) in 1900, Ham-
mond 1028 (79,07) in 1927, Hallows 1000
(125) in 1928, and Bradman 1001 (143) in
1930. (2) Bardsley, 2180 in 1909, 2441 in 1912
and 2218 in 1921; Macartney, 2207 in 1912
and 2218 in 1921; Bradman, 2960 in 1930 and
2020 in 1934; Trumper, 2570 in 1902 (53
innings without a “not out”); Noble, 2084 in
1905; McCabe, 2078 in 1934; and Armstrong,
2002 in 1905.
* * * *
(1) In what Test matches did Fames play in
England in 1934 ? His bowling figures? (2)
Was his average the best for England in the
Test series ? —“9920.
(1) In the first Test at Nottingham and the
second Test at Lord’s.
Overs. Mdns. Runs. Wkts.
First Test .. .. 40.2 10 102 5
25 3 77 5
Second Test .. 12 3 43 0
4 2 6 0
Total .. .. 81.2 18 228 10
(2) Yes; but Verity (24) and Bowes (19) got
more wickets.
*** ' *
(1) Who were the umpires in the 1934 Test
matches in England? (2) What is the law re-
garding the "pitch” both before and during a
Test match? —9923.
(1) First Test, Dolphin (Yorkshire) and
Chester (Worcestershire); second Test, Hard-
staff (Notts) and Chester; third Test, Hardstaff
and Walden (Northamptonshire); fourth Test,
Hardstaff and Dolphin; fifth Test, Chester and
Walden. (2) M.C.C. Law 9 states: “The pitch
shall not be rolled, watered, covered, mown or
beaten during a match, except before the com-
mencement of each innings and of each day’s
play, when, unless the in-side object, the ground
shall be swept and rolled for not more than
seven minutes. This shall not prevent the bats-
man from beating the ground with his bat, nor
the batsman nor bowler from using sawdust in
order to obtain a proper foothold.” The
responsibility of supervising the rolling of the
pitch before play will, in the first place, rest
with the umpires.
$ * * *
When did Henry Armstrong, who won the
world’s welterweight championship from Barney
Ross in New York on May 31, 1938, win the
featherweight title? Where was Armstrong
born, height, reach and weight? —9907.
When he knocked out Pete Sarron in six
rounds at New York City on October 29, 1937.
Born December 12, 1912, at St. Louis, Mo., is
sft. siin. tall, and has a reach of inches.
Normal weight is just under 9st., but he weighed
9st. 7|-lb. against Ross.
* * * *
Information concerning the Discharged Re-
turned Soldier badge and the G.R.L silver
badge? —9520.
The Discharged Returned Soldier badge is
issued in favor of all members of the A.I.F.
who returned to Australia from active service
abroad and were discharged from the force for
reasons other than misconduct. The G.R.I.
silver badge is restricted to those who were dis-
charged from the A.I.F. as medically unfit and
not for misconduct. Approval for the issue of
both badges was first promulgated in Military
Orders dated 1916 and 1917 respectively.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of the N.S.W. subsidised
apprenticeship scheme? (2) Opportunities in
fitting and turning or allied trades ? (3) Pos-
sible employers ? —9626.
(1) Scheme is to enable unemployed persons
between 19-25 to be employed in skilled trades,
either as indentured or trainee apprentices.
Training extends over four years, or less if the
trainee has had previous experience. Rates pay-
able to 19-year-old trainees: First year, em-
ployer £l, subsidy £1; second year, £2, 17s. 6d.;
third year, £3, 155.; fourth year, £4, nil. 20
years: Same as 19, except for 18s. subsidy in
third year. 21 years: Same as 20, except for
£1 10s, subsidy in first year and £1 18s. sub-
sidy in second year. 22 years and over: Same
as 21 years, except for £2 18s. subsidy in first
year. Trainees discharged owing to slack times
receive day training at technical schools and
sustenance payments of 245. per week for single
men and 38s. for married men until transferred
to another employer. Only suitable young men
are submitted to possible employers, and
trainee’s income does not affect food relief or
relief work to his family. (2) A fair number
have already been employed in the metropoli-
tan area; scope is limited. (3) Try your own
district first, and if you find a prospective em-
ployer write Employment Council, Sydney.
sfc *}* H* H*
(1) Duties of an executor? (2) Books on
the subject ?— "9792.
(1) Bury the deceased, gather particulars of
the estate, take out probate, insert notice to
cieditors in newspapers, realise the estate and
collect outstanding money, pay off debts, pay
off bequests (if any), see to trusts (if any),
keep proper books of account and follow any
instructions given in the will. (2) Administra-
tion of Estates, published by the Law Book
Co., 140 Phillip-street, Sydney; 12s. 6d. Should
be available in Hobart.
# Hs $ *
(1) Any market for used stamps ? (2) Likely
buyers ? (3) Sale values of (a) Edward VIII.
\d., Id., 1 id., 2\d.; (b) N.S.W. 1888 {cen-
tenary) 1 d.. Id.; (c) Queen’s head %d., 2d.;
(d) Arms Id. ? —9863.
(1) Many dealers purchase present issue and
common stamps in lots of one thousand, and
higher values in smaller lots and in singles.
(2) WilcoX Smith, Manse-street, Dunedin, N.Z.;
„K. Baker, 12 Royal Arcade, Sydney; W.
362 Forest-street, Bexley, N.S.W. (3)
(a) id., Id. and lid., about Is. 6d. per 1000;
2id., is. per doz. (b) Id., 6s. per 1000; 2d.,
7s. per 1000. (c) id., Is. per 100; 2d., 3s. per
1000. (d) 2s. 6d. per 1000.
* * * *
What are the facts of the opium war in
China ?— 9570.
English merchants were smuggling opium
into Canton, and in 1839 Commissioner Lin,
who had been sent to deal with the situation,
confiscated and destroyed 20,000 chests of
opium, following with an order to all British
to leave Canton. At Chuanpi, two English ships
carrying refugees from Canton, being refused
provisions, seized what they needed. The
Chinese issued an edict forbidding all trade with
England, and British troops took possession of
Tinghai (1840). The war continued for two
years, being terminated by the Treaty of Nan-
king (1842), which provided for the payment of
an indemnity by China of six million dollars
for opium destroyed, twelve million dollars for
expenses of the war and three million dollars
being debts to English merchants. In addition,
a number of ports were thrown open to foreign
trade, Hong Kong was ceded to the British
and British traders were given the right to trade
on terms of equality with the Chinese. There
was no mention of opium in the treaty.
s*: * * V
(1) Brief outline of the history of the Brookes
of Sarawak? (2) Any books concerning them?
—9649.
Sir James Brooke, born Benares, India, 1803,
sailed from England in 1838 to put down
piracy around Sarawak. In 1839 he assisted the
uncle of the Sultan of Borneo in quelling a
rising of native chiefs, and in return was made
Rajah and Governor of Sarawak. He reformed
the system of government, instituted free trade,
framed a new code of laws, and extirpated
headhunting and piracy in his domain. He was
later appointed Governor and Commander-in-
Chief of Labuan by the British Government,
and British Commissioner and Consul-General
in Borneo. He was charged in the House of
Commons with having received “head-money”
for slain pirates, but was acquitted by a Royal
Commission. He died in Devonshire, 1868,
and was succeeded by his sister’s son, Sir
Charles Johnston Brooke (1823-1917), who was
in turn succeeded by his son, Charles Vyner
Bfooke (born 1874). (2) The History of Sara-
wak Under Its Two White Rajahs, by Baring-
Gould and Baniff'ylde (1909); Letters of Sir
James Brooke (1853), and biographies by Jacob
and St. John.
* * * *
Biographical details of William Strutt, an
artist who visited Australia in the ’fifties ?
9723.
Born Teignmouth, Devon, he studied at the
Ecole des Beaux Arts. Arrived Melbourne
1850 and was among the first in the Ballarat
gold rush, making sketches of the diggings.
Became a member of the Victorian Society of
Fine Arts, 1856. Visited New Zealand, and
returned to England in 1862, where he became
well-known as a painter of Biblical subjects.
Australian portraits include Sir Charles Hotham,
Major-General Edward Macarthur and John
Pascoe Fawkner. Strutt is represented in the
Historical Collection at Melbourne Public
Library, the Commonwealth National Library,
Canberra, N.S.W. Parliamentary Library
and the Ballarat Gallery. Died Wadhurst,
Surrey, 1915. See William Moore’s History of
Australian Art, also The Art of William Strutt
and the “Windsor Magazine,” November, 1912.
* * * *
Biographical details concerning Michelangelo ?
—9901.
Michael Angelo Buonarroti (1475-1564) was
born at Caprese, Italy. He began Work at 14
in the Studio of Ghirlandaio, where Masaccio,
Donatello and the Greek sculptors strongly
influenced him. He was for a time in Florence
under the patronage of the Medicis. In 1501
he began work on his David, which securely
established his reputation. In 1505 he accepted
a commission from Pope Julius to decorate the
ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, but troubles with
his patron caused the sculptor to flee to
Florence, though he afterwards returned to
Rome and, almost single-handed, completed the
work in five years. In 1532 Michelangelo re-
sumed the decoration of the Sistine, spending
seven years on the tremendous fresco of the Last
Judgment. The rest of his life was spent mostly
in Rome, where he continued his painting
and sculpture and produced sketches in ink
and red chalk, many of which still exist. Here,
too, he wrote most of his sonnets, and was
engaged in architectural work, including the
great dome of St. Peter’s.
* * * *
Approximate annual catch of deep-sea fish
by the leading fishing countries of the world? —
9825.
Mostly caught by Japan 3,300,000 tons,
Korea 1,500,000 tons, O.S.S.R. 1,400,000 tons,
U.S.A. 1,350,000 tons, U.K. 1,000,000 tons,
Norway 1,000,000 tons, Germany 490,000 tons,
Canada 400,000 tons, Spain 380,000 tons, and
Alaska 350,000 tons.
:J: * * *
(1) Where and when does the Queensland
Authors and Artists’ Association meet? (2)
Subscription ? (3) How can a person become
a member ?— 9740.
(1) Meetings of the association are held in the
Lyceum Club rooms, Brisbane, on the third
Wednesday of the month. (2) Associate and
full membership, 10s. 6d. per annum. (3)
Application for membership may be made at
the monthly meetings of the association or direct
to the secretary, C. B. Christensen, Beresford-
street, Coorparoo.
* * * *
What is a petard, and what is the derivation
of the phrase “hoist with his own petard” ?
9909.
A bulky iron engine of war, filled with gun-
powder and affixed to gates, doors or barricades
in order to blow them up. There was a risk
that the soldier who fired the petard might be
blown up with it. The phrase occurs in
“Hamlet,” Act TIL Scene 4:
Let it work;
For ’tis the spurt to have the engineer
Hoist with his own petard.
* * t *
What is the meaning of “a Pyrrhic victory”?
—9905.
It is an allusion to the phrase attributed to
Pyrrhus after the battle of AusculUm, Where he
routed the Romans but lost the flower of his
own army—“ One more such victory, and we
are lost.” Applies to any victory won at too
great a cost.
** s * *
Recipe for treating calico to make water-
proof overcoats ? —9809.
Garments must be made up before water-
proofing. Place one quart of boiled linseed oil
(inflammable) in a large tin over a covered fire;
shred 4oz. yellow soap into a basin and cover
with boiling water to make a jelly, then whisk
it into the oil. Add one level dessertspoon of
powdered alum, keeping all hot. Brush the
coat with water until it is damp all over
but not wet; then lay it flat and brush on a
coating of hot mixture. Hang, and when quite
dry apply a second hot coating; dry and oil a
third time for a good job. Thorough drying
between the coatings is important, otherwise
coat will always be sticky. Buttons are sewn
on last.
* * * *
Have spices, condiments and flavoring agents
any food value? —9903.
They are not foods in the strict sense of the
term, and cannot furnish the body with energy
or building material, but they are essential con-
stituents of diet —they improve appetite and so
increase digestive power. To persons with poor
appetites, invalids and convalescents flavoring
agents are a stimulant, and no diet which ex-
cludes them is satisfactory for such people.
* * * *•
Information concerning the use of charcoal
gas for driving motor vehicles? —9846.
Best results are obtained when the engines
have been designed and built expressly for the
purpose. Most engines can be converted to run
on producer (charcoal) gas, those best suited
having large cylinder capacities and relatively
low engine speeds. Conversion is invariably
accompanied by a corresponding reduction in
power, which makes it necessary that the engine
be in first-class condition. Fuel normally used
is charcoal, that made in retorts being
most suitable. Cost of plant ranges from £6O,
according to size of engine and nature of its
work. If you propose converting an engine
forward full particulars, including make, type,
h p , bore and stroke and type of vehicle to
FLS.G. (Australia), Ltd., 67 Roden-street, West
Melbourne, C.l.
* * * *
What varieties of Phoenix palms are obtain-
able in Sydney? Average price of well-estab-
lished specimens ? —9822.
Phoenix roebelini, the most graceful, with
well-cut, fine foliage; P. canariensis, requires
plenty of room, and is very hardy; P. reclinata,
suitable for small gardens; P. sylvestris, up-
right with long, well-formed fronds. Small
palms are quoted at 2s. 6d. each; advanced
plants about 10s.
Brief Answers.
Rufus: Fresh grapes are a valuable source
of the anti-scorbutic vitamin C. The vitamin
content of port and sherry is negligible
W.E.S.: Cars are sold to tourists in England
and repurchased by Rootes, Ltd., Devonshire
House, Piccadilly ; Overseas Cars, Ltd., 49
Old Bond-street, W.l; and Winibush, Ltd.,
Headfort-place, Hyde Park Corner, S.W.l—all
London J.G.J.: Literally translated, “with
equal step”—that is to say, equally without
preference. Often used in the case of creditors
in an estate who, in the marshalling of assets,
are entitled to receive out of the same fund
without any precedence over each other
M.K.: No record of “mootles” being used in
connection with Cannabis sativa, which is also
quite distinct from loco weed H.W.M.:
Cases of detached retina have been treated in
Sydney with excellent results, and cures range
between 35 p.c. and 50 p.c. Person named is
one of many competent oculists in this field ol
treatment, which involves the perforation of the
ocular structures known as the sclera and
choroid, followed by use of diathermy. No
pain about it. Worth trying H.P.M.1.: Too
many details. See Whitaker’s Almanack, 1938,
pages 682-683 J.A.M.: Try Elliott Bros., 20
O’Connell-street; B. Selby, Ltd., Reiby-place ;
Mineral Earths, Ltd., 318 Botany-road, Alex-
andria —all of Sydney M.M.L: See the
Australian Authors and Artists’ Handbook....
M. : There is nothing you can do at this
stage beyond informing the bank that the deeds
are in the possession of your brother as cover
for the guarantee he has given the bank and
that it must look to him in the matter....
D.W.: As “road” or “street” would be in
similar usage, “links” is an adjective-equivalent
qualifying “extension” and does not take an
apostrophe....T.O.F.: (1) Try (a) a saturated
solution of sodium hypochlorite (photographers’
“hypo"), (b) Whitfield’s ointment (any chemist),
or (c) X-rays from a specialist. (2) Write
Council of Industrial Research, Melbourne, or
Agriculture Department, Sydney H.C.M.:
Description too vague; “kidney trouble” may
be any one of a dozen conditions. Tea would
do no harm, but alcohol should be avoided....
J.M.M.: Shaving and haircutting are stimulants
of hair growth at first, but rate of growth
lessens progressively until hair attains a length
characteristic for the individual... .G.N.:
Cabbage and spinach contain water 89.6 p.c.
and 90.6 p.c. respectively, nitrogenous matter
1.8 and 2.5, fat 0.4 and 0.5, carbohydrates 5.8
and 3.8, mineral matter 1.3 and 1.7, cellulose
I. and 0.9. Cabbage has a fuel value of 165
calories, spinach 120. The former therefore has
a slightly greater value as a source of energy.
G.E.C.: Talc in its various forms may be
used as a lubricant, for making ornaments,
as firestones in furnaces or as a base in the
manufacture of toilet powders. Write Elliotts
and Australian Drug, Ltd., Sydney, or Parke,
Davis and Co., Rothschild-avenue, Rosebery,
N. Jacko: (1) Yes. (2) Not likely.
(3) No time limit, but process would take
months or even a year or two. (4) Pain in
surrounding tissues is a constant feature. (5)
Osteo-arthritis is often the later stage of rheu-
matoid arthritis. (6) Spondylitis of the chronic
variety is slow and unobtrusive in onset. (7)
There is probably one general cause
W.C.K.: Probably acne, which is caused by
a specific germ. Most boys outgrow it before
they reach their twenties; time and good health
are a help. Cannot prescribe without seeing
patient P.L.: Unwise to overdo physical
exercise at 46 unless it’s been a lifelong habit.
Cut it down if weariness, palpitation, breathless-
ness or pain in the chest results.... .A.G.H::
Appears to be sciatica or some other affection
of nervous origin. May be associated with the
changes in blood vessels which occur in later
life. Cannot suggest treatment without further
details J.M.: Commdn soap 122 parts,
potassium carbonate 61 parts, beeswax 500
parts, water 2000 parts. Shred the hard
materials, mix all together and heat until a
smooth, even paste is obtained. Then add bone
black 1000 parts, powdered sugar 153 parts,
powdered gum arabic 61 parts. Mix thoroughly,
and while still hot pour into flat tins....
G.C.8.: Shred 4oz. beeswax, loz. white soap
and pour over 1 pint of turpentine. Let stand
until quite soft and smooth, then add 1 pint
of cold water. Bottle and shake well until white
and creamy. Apply with a flannel and finish
With a silk duster... .H.0.W.: (1) A C.A.V.
Bosch filter, either felt or fabric. (2) Bennett
and Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst streets, or
Pyrox, Ltd., 97 Palmer-street —both Sydney. (3)
About £4 J. 8.: Write Dangar, Gedye and
Malloch, Ltd., 10 Young-street, of Australian
General Electric, Ltd., 93 Clarence : street—both
Sydney. State whether an electric supply is
available, and, if so, voltage, whether A.C. or
D.C. ; also type of plant required and purpose
to which it will be put J.C.T.: Write secre-
tary, Vic. Gliding Club, 28 Princess-street,
Footscray, Vic N.R.R.: Yes, The Bulle-
tin was Bd. from July 4, 1918, to January
30, 1919... .N.W.: Telephone service is
available between Australia and most other
countries, as well as certain transatlantic
liners and the Awatea on the trans-Tasman run.
Rates for three-minute calls are: Great Britain
£4 10s., France £4 165., Germany £5 25., Canada
and U.S.A. first zone £9, fourth zone £lO 175.,
India £5 12s. 6d., M.L. £2 55., Java £4 10s.
Reduced charges apply for service to Great
Britain and other European countries during
afternoon sessions on Saturdays. For calls
other than to M.L. and Java a surcharge of Is.
in the £l, assessed on the total cost of the call,
is made to cover exchange... .L.T.J.: Major
J. E. Newland, 12th Batt., A.1.F., was the oldest
Australian to win the V.C. He was 35 years
nine months old when he won it for conspicuous
bravery and devotion to duty on three separate
occasions at Bapaume, April, 1917... .S.A.:
'l ne l ruth About Publishing, by Stanley Unwm
(Allen and Unwin, 7s. 6d.), A Business Man s
Guide to Printing, by C. C. Knights (Allen and
Unwin, 7s. 6d.), and Books from the MS. to
the Bookseller, by John L. Young (Pitman and
Sons, 35.) H.W.: Write the 8.8. C., Broad-
casting House, London, W.l A. 8.: Kava
is a Polynesian intoxicant; sometimes spelt
cava, kaava or kaawa.


mm
All in the patent
Everfresh 2~oz. tins at 2/6.
Don’t think of changing
PULL
the
Rubber
Band
to
Open
If you have found a Tobacco
which takes the place of true and
trusted friends, and sometimes (if
need be) even of food or drink—
be thankful ♦ . ♦ don't think of
changing*
But, if you are still seeking such
a Tobacco, one that you want to
discover for yourself and forever
after cleave to ♦ . ♦ try one of the
cheery, chummy, fully satisfying
Barney blends*
There are three: Punchbowle,
a full strength Barneys: Barneys ,
the ideal medium strength: and
Parson's Pleasure, the mild blend.
All are equally good, differing
only in strength to suit the palate
of the discerning pipe smoker*
c At all good tobacconists .. . ask for
jiSamcjis
The Ideal Tobacco
UlB7O
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Although the scaremongering press has
said very little about it, the Sudeten
Germans gained substantially in the
Czechoslovakian municipal elections, over
which the recent fuss started, winning seats
in Prague itself. The position in Prague
seems to be that Germans constitute the
only opposition to the predominant Left-
wingers, among whom there were 90,000
Communist voters. Ninety thousand,
and the population of whole place,
men, women and children, is only
850,000!
* * * *
“Duckwing”: It is cheering to read
that the splendid old sport of cocking is
reviving in Britain. For years past New-
market has been the chief theatre of
operations, but, according to a furious
yelp broadcast by the, secretary of the
R.S.P.C.A., cocking now flourishes in
London, and in the West End at that.
The official says that long lists of wealthy
and distinguished people who support it
are in the society’s possession, but it is
almost impossible to secure convictions.
A generation ago cocking flourished in
and about Sydney North Shore, with its
heavily-wooded hills and gullies provid-
ing ideal shelter. The chilling hand of
civilisation in the shape of suburban de-
velopment has compelled devotees of the
sport to go further afield.
* * * *
“Tovarisch”: Enough has been written
about Trotskyists who commit sabotage
and corrupt wheat-crops and silkworms
in the glorious Republic. Here is an
instance of how the virtuous get their
rewards. The four main members of
a polar expedition which ended in the
explorers having to be rescued off a
drifting ice floe have been declared
“Heroes of the Soviet Union” —a title
which they will henceforward include
in their signatures—and presented with
30,000 rubles apiece. Three also got the
Order of Lenin; the leader, Papanin,
two Orders of Lenin. To half a dozen
others, mostly captains of ice-breakers,
went the 0.0. L.; to 15, the Red Star
Order; to 31, the Order of the Red
Banner of Labor; to nine newspaper
correspondents and photographers, one
cook name of Miroschnichenko and
46 officials, the Order of the Badge of
Honor. Thirty-five others were given
something to hang on a ribbon. Adven-
turousness has suddenly become a virtue
in Bolshieland. The leading Moscow
theatre is advertising'a talkie —“Scenario
by O. Leonidov and V. Weinstock, music
by Nikita Bogoslovsky”—entitled “Treas-
ure Island,” with “Honored Artist of the
Republic N. Cherkasov” in the role of
that noble Slav Long John Silver.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: When the late Tom
Farquhar, the Thursday Island pearler,
returned from a visit to Sydney with a
motor-lorry for which he admitted hav-
ing paid most of a £l5OO sweep prize,
local smarties reckoned that Tommy
must be getting weak in the top storey.
That new-fangled contraption, the first
motor vehicle in Torres Strait, attracted
more amused comment as it rattled over
the island’s three or so miles of roads.
Then the fleets came in for the north-
west season lay-up, and from daylight
to dark Tom’s lorry, packed to extremest
capacity with yelling, grinning, joyous
island boys at two bob a time for a 20-
minute drive, poured money into its
owner’s pocket. Within a month it had
paid for itself and yielded a handsome
profit, a solid tribute _ to Tommy’s
knowledge of Binghi psychology. When
the novelty wore off, it earned an ample
living in the ordinary fashion of motor-
lorries.
* * * *
“Dhas”: Stranger things than escaped
model sailing ships (B. 12/5/’3B) have
been seen in Kawhia harbor (M.L.). The
favorite at a picnic race meeting, for
instance. Before his race was due he
bolted for home, and a mile swim across
the heads was all in the day’s play. They
caught him and brought him back, and
the blighter won his race ! One of the
other horses bolted off the track, and the
other two competitors fell over each
other.
sjc
“E.V.”: Another Australian girl who
has been in Vienna (B. 8/6/’36) wrote
this:
The fact that Hitler captured the votes
of a large majority of the Socialists living
in New Vienna—the huge block of work-
men’s flats built by a Socialist Govern-
ment in 1927 to house 8000 —came as a
surprise to many Viennese. That machinery
1 1 % lve t^le . srna h undernourished children
u rj Austrian unemployed a four weeks’
holiday at German expense was working
within a few days of Hitler’s departure
trom Vienna won many Austrian hearts.
So the Nazis can’t spend all their time
plotting world conquest.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J. 8.: Call again... .A.A.8.: Not very crisp
‘ Toast”... .T.E.McC.: Query “What is a
girl to do?” leaves us speechless... .1.D.: But
when did Kidman ever say “Fare thee well”?
... .M.D.: The sun rises every day... .E.E.:
“The great never-never” is about right....
M.H.: Pity we can’t quote line 45 E.H.M.:
O sparkling beer, thou cheery friend,
Without thy presence much would end —
Beery ballads, perhaps? Omero: “Content I
rest on Nature’s breast”—sleep on D.A.J.:
Attempt to rhyme “nuisance” and “puissance”
was the most puissant nuisance that afflicted
our ears for weeks G.N.G.: Verse in the
raw, t 00... .V.V.8.: Try a sporting paper ; but
topical verse needs to be sent in promptly
C. la V.: Shed bitter tears at “The Wan-
derer’s Lament” C.McD.: Your “Cow”
has a distressing verisimilitude A.T.: Pre-
ferred the skull to the politician G.McD.:
It slipped after the first four lines W.J.R.8.:
Sooner have willows than cypresses from your
district.. . .G. 8.: Afraid it was better before.
J.M.McK.: Is it as good as the painting?
R. St. L.: “Rolling Stone” gath—-
D. : “What do you think?” It left us
without words A.F.L.: Not struck by
“Lightning” F.G.S.: W.p.b. it is
R.W.C.: “The voices, rising slowly, swelled
to a mighty chorus that reached all
over the land and reverberated around the
world.” Sounds like the first Test match
L.D.R.: Sinister murderers haven’t a chance
here... .J.L.: If you must continue, at least
write legibly M.R.C.: Static R. 8.5.:
Smooth over some of the rough patches and
try us again P.R.8.: None of them very
exciting... .L.C.: Too long for its kind....
G.F.P.: Tillie horrid... .C.N.R.: Freddie
worse.,. .U.P.W.: Suggest you burn it...?
D.8.G.: Windy... .P.F.L.: Come again....
R.8.D.: Neither that nor anything like it
C.L.K.: “Could you suggest another market
for these?” No, we don’t dislike anyone as
much as that H.V.: You might do better
with one a month H.L.D.: It’s not the
worst we’ve had... .L.M.D.: Don’t like slops,
and if we did we wouldn’t like those
F.D.N.: Dilute it and try a daily G.R.W.:
Only original and hitherto unpublished yarns,
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
thank you T.L.R.: Gave it much thought,
but we were still baffled... .T.B S.: Not vf> r y
interested in cave-men J.T.8.: Groom
“Thoroughbred” and send it in agam
N.F.C.: No use here... .P.D.L.: Hard to say
where you might place them..L.F.P.: Piffle.
. ...L.F.N.: “Waif” waiting *or
M.F.L.: Nearly N.G.D.: “Sorry to
inflict these on you.” Soiry, too •.• .A .AV.iVI. .
Characters too hazy L.R.N.: That “little
blossom” was nipped in the bud... .A.L.D.:
Not for us P.R.L.: Try something more
original... .H.L.S.: Failed to see the point.
H.N.: You have a remarkable imagination.
K.T.: Nicely done; try a woman’s mag.
. ...8.F.: Not bad; keep trying.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
I S.: Jest is out of date, and the drawing
was a non-starter... .F.M.H.: Sketch reveals
slight promise; study more from life... .J.E.:
Your lopsided head-hunter collected no scalps
here... .R. 8.: Use good-class drawing paper
and Indian ink and correct postage A.C.:
The policeman’s boots are about the only cor-
rect items....T.J.: Letting you off with a
caution as a first offender A.F.M.: It has
taken that gag a long time to reach your part
of the world... .M.L.G.: A cheerless collec-
tion of artistic atrocities... .F.W.: Figures are
flat... .N.8.W.: It wouldn’t seem like winter if
that old chestnut didn’t turn up at least half-a-
dozen times... .G.G.: Your fragile fairies won’t
find a home in our pages... .J.L.: Barmaid is
not much stouter than the beer pump, and the
publican lacks a nose and ears M. 8.: We
thought that gag died a natural death eight
cricket seasons back... .L.F.: It was rejected,
but you’re on the right road C.K.: Didn't
we see that one in a recent American magazine?
J.A.: Careful work, but the total effect is
depressing... .R.F.: B. E. Minns illustrated
that jest S.S.G.: You have a smart line, but
no idea of balancing a drawing C.D.: Now
learn something about perspective... .H. 8.:
Crude... .F.D.: Day of the four-decker
question-and-answer gag has passed
A.F.: Problem of the burglar in pub
might interest the legal profession, but
it hardly makes a humorous drawing....
C.D.: Received “Australia Will Be There”
cartoon, but you don’t make the destination
clear A.T.: Gags lack punch 8.F.:
Rockchopper might have been hewn out of the
material he is chopping C. 8.: Rejects are
waiting collection A.P.: No space to record
a complete list of your faults S.T.: Marred
by ugly cross hatching.


QUALITY CUTLERY
BAKER'S RED TANG SHEARS, double
hollow ground, Sheffield made. ng w
Each. Post.
901— oin. Dagging Shear .. 6/9 9d.
902 — (jin. Lamb Shear .. 7/3 9 •
709—THE SCAEPER, Smooth Horn
Haft. Each 5 /'
BLOODLESS BMAS-
CULATOR. Length
overall. 12in.; width of
jaw, 2§in.
Price, each, £3/5/-
Postage, 1/6.
This size is the most
suitable for all-round
work.
df
!U3 BAKER’S
BOUNDARY
RIDER’S BEECH
HANDLE KNIFE
AND STEEL, in
Leather Sheath
with Loops for
Belt.
Per Set . . 14/6
Postage 1/- extra.
OUR 50th YEAR,
1888-1938.
100*—GLOUCESTER CABINET. Polished Oak
Case, fitted with Baker’s Stainless Steel
Knives and Silver-plated Spoons and Forks.
Contents: 6 each Table and Dessert Knives;
6 each Table and Dessert Forks; 6 each
Dessert and Tea Spoons; 2 Table Spoons;
1 Pair Carvers and 1 Steel. In A 1 Quality
Silverplate £9/15/6
In B Quality Silverplate . . £B/8/-
A iork E spanner note
23/9 36/3 21/-
M \I)E IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE REGUDATIONS OF NEW
SOUTH WALES, QUEENSDAND,
SOUTH AU ST RADIAN, WEST
AU ST RADIAN, TASMANIAN AND
NEW ZEADAND STOCK
DEPARTMENTS.
Ou receipt of registered number of
sketch and measurements of any
nlier cuts not shown price will be
promptly sent.
H(JUSE.WIFE’S: ; SCISSORS: OUT.EIT
A
%= m
sc*
JKQ
F. P.
«04—IOUR-PAIK SCISSOR CASE.
Size about 8-Jin. by 3in. when folded.
Fitted with 4 best quality Sheffield-
made Scissors —oue 7in. Cutting-out,
one sin. Household, one Embroidery
and one Nail.
Complete 37/6
W. JNO. BAKER
PTY.
LiD.
3 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled. .
All that is necessary is to enter the amount or income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations »»
Sheep bought "
Wire netting »»
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared-
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1938 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252IBB). Sydney,
and your account book w 11 be forwarded to you.
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
XVII.
_ . „ , A n
The influence of the Russian -
tion began to be telt in Austra la very
early in the history of that upheaval. It
was acclaimed by what was left of the
1.W.W., and there was a gradual exodus
of “Wobblies” to the Promised Land,
And laudation of Lenin and Trotsky was
shouted in Trades Halls, and editors of
Labor newspapers devoted to it their
most dithyrambic prose.
Enthusiasts for the revolution shot up
even in steady-going trade-unions like the
Australian Workers. The A.W.U. had
been sorely tried by the 1.W.W., which
had struck at its control over shearers
and station-hands in every mainland
State
To repel its attacks in Queensland,
Mr Theophilus had been pressed into
service, and Mr. Theophilus said hotly
that it was “a band of destroyers” which
had “attracted the reckless and extreme
and in some cases, the criminal elements
of society” ; an organisation whose policy
was “direct action and violence, an im-
norted policy of despair and vengeance,
totally uncalled-for in Australia.”
And now there were Bolshevists in the
A W U itself
Australia, they said, had had enough
of Governments like those of Mr. Pew
and Mr. Theophilus and urgently needed
Councils of Workmen and Soldiers —
Peasants were thoughtfully added when
tber£ were f armers about. Democracy
was dead and rotten, and a dictatorship
Q £ be proletariat must be established,
Mr. Duveen, of the A.W.U., intimated,
n ot obscurely, that he was willing to be
the dictator; and other candidates un-
troubled with modesty advanced their
own claims.
Sympathy wUh the Reds was also (elt
by middle-class sentimentalists, notably
journalists. From boyhood books on the
p renc h Revolution had been the favorite
reading of such people: the more imagi-
native had seen themselves dying grandly
on the guillotine after delivering resound-
ing speeches that made tyrants tremble,
while continuing to live in perfect safety
and comfort in easygoing Australia. And
here was that wonderful episode in the
history of the race happening all over
again, though the centre had shifted from
Paris to Moscow.
A glorious revolution, indeed, and it
had followed French precedents closely
—up to a point. Ambitious men of
the upper and middle classes had begun
it, and, when no longer of any use, had
been pushed out of the way and, for
the most part ’ out of exlstence — b V
sentatives of the people,
Kerensky, the Vergn ia V d ,? f the
had saved his head by bolting. Many
of his followers experienced the fate ot
Girondins, administered more summarily.
Kornilov and Russky were disposed of
as were counter-revolutionary generals in
the early seventeen-nineties, though again
without the formality of a trial.
Not that the Red Republic was with-
out its Revolutionary Tribunal. It set up
one known as the Cheka, which got rid
of enemies of the people in batches with
a truly Oriental thoroughness. In far
Ekaterinburg, where the family which
had ceased to reign had taken refuge,
the Cheka was spared the trouble of
bringing its members to justice. The
second Nicholas, his wife, their crippled
son and their four daughters, with their
personal attendants, were “removed” in
one night by Communists of whom the
Tartar conquerors of Muscovy in the
Middle Ages would have warmly
approved.
Detractors were already beginning to
suggest that this new revolution was
Oriental in origin, character and methods.
Lenin, they said, looked like a Tartar
and behaved like one. Marx, the god of
his idolatry, was racially and spiritually
more Asiatic than European: a hairy
man without a country ; an unassimilated
international Jew. Bronstein, alias Trot-
sky, and Zinoviev were also wandering
Jews: clever, vain and restless always,
even in their Russia.
But those were just capitalistic and im-
perialistic slanders.
Lenin was a greater Robespierre. Trot-
sky was a Danton untainted by the gold
of Pitt: English Socialists would presently
discover that he was a Carnot as well
—“the greatest military organiser of the
age.” Zinoviev was a sublime Clootz;
and in the Pole Dzhervinsky or some
name like that the revolution had a
silent and much more effective Marat.
In one respect the leaders in this
struggle of the poor against the rich had
departed from the French tradition.
France had been invaded by Prussians
and Austrians, and the French had
• fought the invaders and beaten them.
Russia was invaded by Prussians and
Austrians, but the Russians would no
longer fight: all the fight had been
knocked out of them. If Lenin and
Trotsky invited them to expel the in-
vaders they would turn on Lenin and
Trotsky as they had turned on Keren-
sky and Kornilov.
Lenin and Trotsky khew a trick worth
two of that. They would make peace
with the winners if they had to, but they
would try to revolutionise their peoples
first.
They tried revolutionising the said
peoples, but it didn’t work. So when
the invaders were preparing for a mili-
tary promenade to Moscow and b •
Petersburg a peace was signed. It in-
volved the surrender of some ot the
richest parts of the Empire of the
Romanoffs, but it set Lenin and Trotsky
free to concert their plans for the civil
wars which obviously impended, and tor
the propagation of the gospel ot Marx
east and west, without fear of the Ger-
mans bursting in and spoiling everything.
And for the Central Powers and the
Western Alliance a time might come when
imperialistic wars would be converted
into proletarian wars, and then the stand-
ard of the Soviets would be planted some
furlongs further into capitalistic chaos.
Long after the Russians had given up
fighting the Germans as a bad job, the
Australian censorship sought to preserve
the fiction that Russia was still in the
war. Mr. Pew had for a brief period
appointed himself a censor of cartoons.
One that fell under his displeasure was
interdicted after one of the official cen-
sors had passed it, and the Pew ban
was removed only after a firm editor had
said: “Very well, then; no cartoon, no
issue of our paper this week.”
When Lenin and Trotsky were actu-
ally in the ascendant permission to pub-
lish a representation of Russia as an
inebriated bear clutching a vodka bottle
was refused, on the ground that the draw-
ing was a foul insult to a gallant ally
and would jeopardise the Allied cause.
But after peace had been signed at Brest-
Litovsk, opponents of and sympathisers
with the new Russia were allowed to
speak and write about it as they pleased.
“Advanced” trade-union officials and
Labor editors became increasingly pro-
Russian. In maritime union prints and
discussions Lenin arid Trotsky were
idolised. One of the soberest fellows
at the Melbourne Trades Hall surren-
dered to Bronstein-worship. Agitators
were busy with plans for One Big
Union as a step towards an Australian
dictatorship of the proletariat, and even
the A.W.U. promised to consider it.
When thoroughly worked up these
gentlemen and their friends held what
they called a trade-union congress, at
which they said they represented “half
the workers in Australia,” stood for tak-
ing and holding the means of production
by revolutionary action and demanded
Councils of Action all over the place.
They wound up by giving three cheers
for Marx (also known as Mordecai) and
singing “The Red Flag.”
(To be continued .)


MOTHER OF FIVE WHO
WAS ALWAYS TIRED
Now Awakes as Fresh as a
Daisy.
A mother of five has a lot to do, especially
a country mother. And this one was “always
tired.” But Kruschen ended all that —now she
gets up, feeling fresh, at five o’clock in the
morning!. She writes:
“I find Kruschen Salts the best thing money
can buy for my health. I am the mother of
five children, and before taking Kruschen I
was always feeling tired and run down. Now
I am glad to say that I get up feeling fresh—
and I get up at five o’clock in the morning. I
do my housework, see to my children, and
leave home at 6.30 to start my- work in the
fields.” —(Mrs.) B.
Tiredness and that run-down feeling can be
traced to one root cause. That cause is in-
ternal sluggishness; failure to keep the inside
free from poisonous waste matter.
Kruschen Salts is nature’s recipe for main-
taining a condition of internal cleanliness. The
six salts in Kruschen stimulate your internal
organs to smooth, regular action. Your inside
is thus kept clear of those impurities which,
when allowed to accumulate, lower the whole
tone of the system.
a
TI4F
"NarvoiT
Poley
Saddle
£l5/15/-
(MOUNTED)
The tree is
designed to
allow for a
full free bar, the
seat is London color
hogskin, the flaps
and skirts are combined and are of
best-quality kip leather.
N.S.W. freight paid for cash with order.
WALTHER * STEVENSOH CTJ:|
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
Safe into Harbour...
150 years ago Captain Phillip brought his ships safely into
harbour, to found our Nation. Only clear imaginative vision,
sincere and practical forward planning and honest sustained
effort could have brought so brave an adventure to success-
ful conclusion.
You, too, have a great adventure to plan, the adventure
of life; and to it you must bring much of the spirit of those
great pioneers, if the ship of your dreams is to come safely
to harbour.
Plan with a savings account, the most convenient aid to
material progress. Free, helpful and sound Savings Bank
service is available to you, wherever you may live in
Australia.
Mth
snuins S
OF AUSTRALIA
An k
* m
i r
3
8
• • ©
mm
rTTiTOffi
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
(^GMiGtdj^
Affray of the Wild Men
IN a season or two the Wild Men
have turned on some willing affairs
at Sydney Stadium, none more so
than last week’s engagement. From
the word go it was all-in for the six
rounds it lasted, getting more full of
vim as it went on. It wound up with one
party to it semi-conscious out in the
spectators’ pews, where a battering-ram
assault had hurled him. The other party
was still full of fight, and no way pacified
by having it intimated to him that he
had been disqualified. This for, among
other affectionate behavior, hanging the
ref. by the neck in a twist of the upper
and middle ropes and leaving him there
“Give her five minutes start, eh, Judkins?"
suspended, what (Rowdy. Rudy)
raced back to deal out rough-house to
the similarly trussed foe on the other
side of the ring.
Combatants in the affray were Rudy
la Ditzi (16st. 21b.) and Bill Hansen
(15st. 131 b.). You might also include
flannelled ref. Norman, whose job
evolved into that of third wrestler, either
for breaking holds or defending himself
when Rudy decided one opponent wasn’t
a fair test of his ability.
. A violent customer, this Rudy—his
idea of light literature probably the Riot
Act. In addition to a blocky framework
that might have been chopped out of the
most gnarled gum between here and
Bourke, he has a dial calculated to make
a runaway tram think better of it and
sneak back to its depot. Press publicity
credits him with a childlike fondness for
pineapple juice ; performance suggests he
uses that weakly confection for washing
down his ordinary diet of Yampi ore and
T.N.T. On all appearances he’s shown
himself an out-and-out Wild Man; a
prodigious grunter when the other bloke
has a hurting hold on him, but evidently
impervious to punishment; a noted ex-
ponent of the art of putting in the boot,
and a solid wrestler as well.
All that, except the wrestling part, in
contrast to the appearance and usual
performance of Hansen. Bill’s mother
must have been proud of Bill; a fine,
big, hearty lump of a boy. Also, a neat,
fast, spectacular wrestler, with a good
variety of grips and very speedy methods
of getting out of trouble.
So they lined up, and they were off.
And it was evident from their first clash
that there were going to be no beg-
pardons. The violence of their first
collision convinced even the most cynical
that this was .to be a struggle with the
lid off. A good deal of manifest show-
manship goes with this wrestling game
as a general matter of course. It has
the great advantage of adding comedy,
which is all to the good and helps to
account for the crowds ; but it tends to
make onlookers cynical, to the extent
that some are ready to swear that it’s
all showmanship, which is asinine. These
Wild Men hurt each other; what’s often
overlooked is that, being built out of
cast iron, they can take it.
This pair now proceeded to both give
it and take it. They applied and broke
holds with violent ferocity. In the early
part of the onslaught the youth’s speed
gave him the better of it. He has one
method of escape considerably faster than
it can be described. It’s a matter of
fairly flitting across the canvas while flat
out, face up, but with only the back of
his head and his heels touching the mat.
He finishes up right outside the ring.
This little stunt he worked several times
in the first round while he was fresh,
but not so much thereafter. Between such
stunts both wrestled their hardest, occur-
rences including the heaving of the youth
out into the aisle behind the police. The
struggle continued just as violent in the
second term, which was a severe test of
muscle and brawn, enlivened by the
wallops that are called forearm jolts and
by other forms of riotous conduct. In
the third Rowdy Rudy bit the dust, the
youth swinging off the ropes, leaping high
into the air and heavily planting both
feet repeatedly in Rudy’s pineapple juice
receptacle. Called the dropkick, this
must feel to the recipient like stopping
a charging bull with the solar plexus.
Several applications of it took all the
steam out of Rudy, and the youth forth-
with fell on him and pinned him.
In the fifth Rudy evened the wrestling
score with a violently applied Boston
crab. In the next the affray turned into
riot. Suffering a back-hurt from the
crab, Bill was cantering round the ring
to unlimber the strained muscles when
Rudy collared him, rushed him to the
ropes, forced his throat down over the
top strand and pulled the middle one up
and twisted it over his head.
Norman dragged and bumped Rudy off
and tried to get Bill’s head out, where-
upon Rudy tore to the other side of the
ring and applied feet and arms to pulling
the ropes taut. Norman now rushed
thither, to be himself nabbed by Rudy
and left similarly strung up by the neck,
while Rudy tore back and proceeded to
rain down knockout blows on the jaw
of the still helplessly strung Bill. The
ref., freed by spectators, came at Rudy
again, but was heaved aside, and at that
Rudy grabbed Hansen’s legs, lifted and
heaved that hapless wight over the top
rope.
Luckily for William, this undid the
'twist, leaving Bill free to fall heavily on
to the press bench and roll from there
into the darkness beneath. From these
subterranean parts a very dazed Bill was
presently helped to clamber up outside
the ring, where Rudy’s final assault
caught him —a blow in the middle that
knocked him into the spectators’ seats
10ft. away.
While bottle-holders and spectators
rendered first-aid to Bill, ref. Norman
at last succeeded in making himself heard,
to the effect that Rudy was disqualified,
a decision which seemed reasonable
enough, but which left Rudy looking
as if not all the pineapple juice in
Queensland could wash out the enormi//
of it.


they would probably legislate against it. Unpleas
antly bitter, the Jermyn of these days, thought Darien.
She didn’t Want him now. After a time, falling m
lSve' becomes merely an incident, and no man is
worth a grande passion. Tiffy would probably have
one, though. She was that sort.
CORNY had persuaded Peregrine out into the
garden. “Somethin’ to tell you . . - damned im-
portant,” muttered Corny in his husky voice. So
under the stars, from which Roddy had so often
called down benediction on his love, Peregrine learned
of it and, although much surprised, was less annoyed
than Corny had expected.
“Her fault entirely, the little wanton,” said Corny
handsomely. “Always ridin’ out to the farm. I packed
her straight off to the Waikato with her mother. She’ll
be married before the child comes, Lovel. Maoris
think none the worse of a wife who’s had an affair
with a white man.”
“I am much obliged to you.” Peregrine was still
somewhat dazed. “Does Roddy know . . . about the
child?”
“Eriti says not. Scared of losinghim. But all
half-castes are born liars. Don’t seem'English at all,
somehow,” said Corny grimly. Twice Hemi had re-
fused to return home. “I think the Maori cause is a
lost one, and so I must help it,” Hemi had written in
his careful English. But if war came Corny would
go down into the Waikato and fetch him.
“ ’Pon my soul, Lovel, I feel I owe you an
apology”
“Not at all, my dear fellow. Quite the other
way,” said Peregrine, recovering. Corny had been
very decent about Hemi, and it was pleasant to fin-
Roddy was not the milksop
he seemed. A thwarted love
affair, even a Maori one.
would stave off desire for
a too-early marri a g e,
thought Peregrine, quite
ready to trample on all
young hearts that needed it.
He was really grateful to
Corny’s Eriti, and showed it by requesting that she
have her lips tattooed at once.
“Eh? D’ you think so? A half-caste, y\know.
It’s damned painful and ugly. I wouldn t let Haini
be done,” protested Corny, who was really soft-
hearted.
But Peregrine’s assertion that nothing would
quicker cool Roddy’s ardor than thought of the thick
blubber lips of the respectable married Maori woman
overruled him. “All right. I’ll send Rupe down at
once,” promised Corny, going back for the drink
which he felt he richly deserved, while Peregrine went
to watch Roddy and Tiffany dancing together.
“Look at ’em. You’ve given something to a new
country there, Peregrine. Fresh an’ sweet as a May
mornin’, egad,” declared Major Henry, who was
becoming shocking sentimental in his old age.
Peregrine contemplated his son with new interest.
So Roddy was a man now, and would have to be
shipped down to Canterbury before one of these young
women caught him on the rebound. The best of John's
merino rams must go with him before young Greer
got them, too, thought Peregrine, who had put Andrew
down as a worthy enemy since he went off with the
Hereford bull. But Andrew could advise and help
Roddy, since their stations would not be far apart as
distance went in that country.
I shall arrange everything before I speak to the
boy, thought Peregrine, always a little uncomfort-
able before that strange bright bloom of innocence
which seemed still to persist in Roddy, and going up
to sit by Sally. Since the young Lovels seemed to
have become the cynosure of all eyes, it was only right
that their parents should be where they too could be
observed.
(To be continued.)
They Come in M any Shapes
JOE BROWN, DICTATOR
By
G.E. MAYMAN
UNLIKE most Dictators, Joe Brown achieved his
position by weakness, modesty and a too-
tolerani nature.
It had its vague beginnings in those strange
days after the war when the goldfields of the west
produced a crop of dead towns with a rapidity un-
equalled by anything in the ancient world. Babylon
took centuries to vanish in the desert sands, Yellow-
stone only twenty years. Perhaps if Joe had heard of
Babylon he would have compared the two. There
had also been a lavishness in Yellowstone’s construc-
tion.
Its first City Fathers had planned generously. There
were broad macadam streets and asphalt footpaths.
Its big hotels were structures of good nine-pound Cool-
gardie bricks, carted there with reckless expenditure.
Imposing shops and blocks of offices reared their two
storeys grandly on both sides of the main street. A
recreation oval, upon which Postle had once given
an exhibition, was complete with a banked concrete
cycle track, sure evidence of the town’s early import-
ance. But the magnificence of Yellowstone culminated
in its Town Hall, a grave, dignified edifice of grey
stone with banquet hall and council chambers.
Perhaps the only thing the township had not been
provided with was a stable industry to support it. It
had boomed for a few years, then the rich leaders
which had drawn its population petered out. The
war took away its quota of young men. Those who
stayed worked out the few good lodes at high pres-
sure —at the Government’s request.
Of course, everybody knew there were thousands
of tons of low-grade stuff there —five-, six- and even
seven-pennyweight stuff. But with costs as high as
they were, and the low price of gold——
j~7 OR some years Joe had hardly been noticed in
1 the community. He was a shy, comparatively
young man, and had a small general store off the
main street. When the bigger, keener businessmen of
Yellowstone saw the way the finger was pointing they
cleverly cut their losses and bought farms in the
' wheat belt.
The miners who remained then discovered “Old
Joe ” Though they could not borrow money they found
they could get credit. (Joe had listened with an aching
heart to Dan Reece and Arthur Hull and Frankie
Smith, and to save their families from the gutter had
surrendered his last few pounds for their several stores
in the main street.) '
When Evan Jones left he was genuinely sorry he
could not pay his twelve months’ store account. In-
stead he made over the 24 acres of the Merthyr Vale
lease to Joe. The habit of paying their store accounts
by putting an equal value on their useless leases and
signing them over to the unwilling Joe caught on
among the miners aS they retreated from Yellowstone.
Joe always protested, but he was very soft-hearted,
and, besides, he was not a good speaker.
This was evident when he went courting Dan
Williams's widow on Sunday afternoons, when her tiny
pieshOp and cafe was closed. For eight years, the
first two shyly, the others sadly, she had waited for
Joe to propose, but his courage dwindled with his
fortune.
By ’2B and ’29 the few remaining old-timers were
living on the few stocks left in Joe's store, occasion-
ally manning his leases for their keep.
His footsteps sounded strangely as he walked
about the empty, echoing shell of the silent, forgotten
township, eyeing the lean goats in the main street or
peering in at the deserted hotels with their vast,
grime-covered mirrors and their acres of red-
wood counters thick with dust. They, too, had
been sold to Joe after a soulful story by their
chuckling owners. At times he thought of sell-
ing the bricks, but they had built firmly and well in
the old days, and Yellowstone was so far from any-
where.
So, through sheer lack of business acumen, too
much sympathy, sentiment and general, spinelessness,
Joe commenced his rise to complete domination of
Yellowstone. For, one day, people returned. They
were heralded by a lean, keen-eyed geologist with an
American accent and a pink-cheeked financier with
London credentials. They hurriedly paid cash, and
lots of it, for an interest in some of Joe’s low-grade
leases. Nations no longer backed their currencies
with gold, and for that reason they were prepared to
pay, in paper money, twice its old price.
ONE morning as Joe drowsed in his camp stretchei
listening idly to the distant stamp of batteries and
the throb of mills, the roar of traffic, the tap of hurrying
feet and all the noises of a busy street, he realised he
controlled Yellowstone. The day before, amidst a
bewildering storm of enthusiasm and his own amaze-
ment, he had been elected Mayor unopposed.
As he moved restlessly about the shabby room,
slowly donning his worn grey flannel and patched blue
dungarees, his significance in the town became more
apparent. His big stores, now managed by the keen
businessmen back broke from the wheatbelt, were
flourishing as never before. His hotels, leased for
enormous ingoes and astonishing rentals, were always
crowded. He controlled the rebuilt brewery, the two
picture halls, the billiard-saloons,
the weekly paper ; and, because of
his fixed deposits, the local branch
of the bank. Even the two-up
schools asked his permission before
opening.
The numbness and embarrass-
ment occasioned by the realisation
of his position slowly left him.
Then he reached for his blackened
pipe. He knew that what he said
in Yellowstone went, but for the
life of him he could think of nothing to say. If he
lifted his little finger all Yellowstone waited, hushed,
ready to obey, but his imagination ■ boggled as he
searched his mind for something to lift it for. The one
thing he did know about Dictators, however, was that
they did things in style. What to do was the thing.
He pondered deeply.
M RS. WILLIAMS, from her now very obscure
cafe, had watched Joe’s swift rise to eminence
with dismay. She regarded herself closely in the
mirror. She was untouched by the greyness of middle
age ; her eyes were still bright, her skin still fresh, her
figure still attractive—but men over forty went a bit
silly when they got a bit of money. She sighed
heavily. She was as subtle and as clever and as intelli-
gent as any other woman —she wanted to marry a
man, and she really did like Joe.
Even as she sat sighing a fleet of high-powered
cars swept down the broad street. They glided to a
standstill, and Mrs. Williams was inundated by masses
of flowers from the new florists. From other cars
poured the staff of the new fashionable beauty parlors,
the most exclusive dressmakers. Then came a beam-
ing jeweller with a tiny case and a smiling lawyer
with a letter.
In the quickly-decorated Town Hall Joe was
shouting loudly and strutting up and down in a brand-
new suit, his jaw at a prodigious angle, surrounded
by a group of cringing “Yes” men in the best tradi-
tions of Dictatorships.
“Bring the parson,” Joe bawled. “Right. At
four o’clock. What? Not enough time? He lapidly
dashed off a cheque. The Church bent its head.
“Now the wedding breakfast. What? Want
more notice? Take this cheque.” The caterers rushed
about to obey.
“This thing is to be done in style. I declare a
public holiday.”
The bank manager muttered something about
sanction from his head office. Joe shot him a fierce
glance. The manager saw Joe’s account going to a
rival bank. “But on an occasion such as this”
he murmured pleasantly.
So Joe ramped around, as all Dictators should,
and his day of glory culminated with the leading of
his happy, weeping bride up t|ie scarlet carpet to the
altar.
And for those shrewd thinkers who have guessed
that Joe’s career-as a Dictator ended on his wedding
day, the first time he displayed will, character and
strength, it must be pointed out that the dictatorship
has only given way to a benevolent autocracy, the ideal
form of government.


masterpiece is (Perfection
/ me spirit he always serves.
11 i
*
m
gß&j
2§§
ffhs
:'V-
*>C«
zm
m
m=k
r
iinmlinninimimmuii urnirwTT rr~- r* “rry- rmitrnimr~"‘i‘*i , * , "'“it- J TfiitmTn~r>ff»i‘Hfl
(IfGxUums
Scots (Übisky
( rovafll
(PCaUiuw’s
yJu>
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
df
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection of
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone.
Price 1/6
(Postage 2d. extra)
Obtainable
only
from
< *
0
0°
qW
.•* . </s*<? ?^ei
..-* <$ \° V e '


M
m
■•Jr
'"o'
se
° r e
e.
''Hr.
0 <?
<*/
Q sjf
*7
• J'o
e ©#
L
H'o
: »J,
'W
r>
to
I SU
°iv;
i
c** 5
CB»
v*ow
it
\
1
«il
°°d-Sn* •
'railed ba „
And it certainly isn’t cricket to ask a time-jaded
radio to give you the Test broadcasts (or any
other programme) in a worth-while way. Better
read this announcement all through!
If you put every make of radio into a test match you’d find the Tasma team of star
performers right on top from the very start. Here’s why! Tasma insists that it isn’t
cricket to build a receiver unless it can remain at “peak” form for year after year after
year. Tasma believes that it isn’t cricket to sell you a radio that lacks any modern
feature. When you buy a Tasma—you buy the conscientious product of Australia’s
most expert radio engineers .. . technicians with pride. For that reason, you’ll be on
a better wicket with a Tasma. You’ll get better value, better performance . . . you’ll
get Bradman form in every “test.” If cricket (or any other programme) is worth
listening to at all it is worth hearing in the way that only TASMA makes possible. Call
at your nearest Tasma dealer NOW and hear these new receivers-—then have one
installed in time for the Big Cricket.
ONLY TASMA CAN GIVE YOU ALL THESE FEATURES!
m
i
iii
m
m
INSTANTANEOUS TUNING:
Knabling any one of the 125
Stations indicated on tile Tasma
dial to be tuned at the flick of a
finger and thumb with hairline
accuracy.
EXTENDED TUNING RANGE:
Both above and below normal
limits, providing for the addition
of new broadcasting stations as
they come on the air.
OVERSIZE DIAL:
Twenty inches of floodlit tuning
space with pointer and stations
covering the full circle. Even a
deaf man can tune a Tasma per-
fectly !
OCTAL VALVES:
The new Tasma receivers are
equipped with Octal-type tubes
and include the sensational
“Beam” power output valve.
VARIABLE SELECTIVITY:
A luxury feature giving full
musical volume and absolute
selectivity over any programme.
AUTOMATIC VOLUME
CONTROL:
AH new models incorporate Audio
A.V.C., permitting weak stations
to be played louder and preclud-
ing annoying variations.
INBUILT MAGIC EYE:
The Magic Eye of the Tasma is
built INTO the Dial to ensure
immediate visual indication of
exact tuning.
THE TASMA “DEBUTANTE”
(AT RIGHT)
Meeting the demand for receivers with full
console chassis, yet with a cabinet compact
enough for table use.
Model “535” —6-valve dual-wave AX'.
Price 27 Guineas
Model “580” —5-valve Broadcast, Battery
operated 27 Guineas
Air Cell operated 29 Guineas
Vibrator powered 32 Guineas
Model “585” —3-valve dual -wave, Battery-
operated 29 Guineas
Air Cell operated 31 Guineas
Vibrator powered 34 Guineas
THE TASMA “PRINCESS"
The most luxurious -receiver in the medium-
price field of to-day. A dual-wave set which,
in the opinion of experts, has never been
equalled in the same price class. It possesses
every refinement known to radio science.
Model “530” —6-valve dual-wave A.C.
model 35 Guineas
Model ••585” —5- valve dual-wave. Battery
operated 35 Guineas
Air Cell operated 37 Guineas
Vibrator operated 40 Guineas
THE TASMA "COUNTESS”
(AT LETT)
Flawless in technical design and giving a
standard of performance never before achieved.
Model “525”—6-valve dual-wave A.C.
Price , 31 Guineas
Model “580” —5-valve broadcast, Battery
operated 31 Guineas
Air Ceil operated 33 Guineas
Vibrator .powered 36 Guineas
d
(Prices sliglilly higher in West Australia.)
iJatima
ITINERARY FOR 1938 CRICKET TEST SERIES.
fd
DATE.
Aug. 0
8, 9
.. 10, 11.
.. 13, 15,
„ 17. 18
~ 20-26
„ 27, 29.
~ 31 ;
Sept. '
Sept. 3,5, I
„ 10, 12,
„ 15
„ 16, 17
VEKSTJS.
Scotland
Durham
12 Surrey
16 Kent
The Army
FIFTH TEST
30 Sussex
PLAYED AT
Glasgow
Sunderland
Kennington O'l
Canterbury
Aldershot
Kennington O'l
Brighton
Blackpool
Folkestone
Scarborough
Belfast
Dublin
~ 2 An England XI.
i An England XI.
13 H. D. G. Leveson-
Gower’s XI.
Ireland
lrela nd
INTERSTATE DIS T R I B U T O R S
VICTORIA: HARTLEYS LTD., 270 Flinders
Street, Melbourne.
John Hollway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street,
North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors .)
SOUTH AUST.: OLIVER J. NILSEN & CO.,
LTD., 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
TASMANIA: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY.,
LTD,, 36 Argyle Street, Hobart; and
59 George Street, Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: CARLYLE & CO.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. GRICE, LTD,, 90-92
Queen Street, Brisbane; Rockhampton,
Townsville and Cairns.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 197
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane. (Wholesale
Distributors.)
DARLING DOWNS: ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD., Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
A Product of THOM AN SMITH PTY. LTD., 29-39 Botany Road, Mascot.
