

32
I
A Loan, bq ike
Commonuiealth and
State Governments
for Defence and
Public Works
£10,250,000 is required by Commonwealth and State
Governments for Defence purposes and for Public Works
and other purposes. Of the amount £4,000,000 has been
earmarked for Defence.
Naval, Military and Aerial branches of the Defence forces
must be brought to a high pitch of efficiency.
In the meantime, the public works of the Commonwealth
and States must be kept moving.
Investors in this Loan, therefore, are offered the oppor-
tunity of helping in the defence of their country and in
the maintenance of employment, as well as receiving
attractive interest on their savings.
This Loan offers 3f% interest. £lO bonds can be pur-
chased for £9/19/-, and £lOO bonds for £99/10/-. The
interest, too, enjays valuable taxation privileges.
Small and large investors alike have the option of paying
their subscriptions in full at time of application, or of
paying a deposit of 10% with the application and the
balance in two instalments.
★
An efficient Defence'
system means Security.
The continuance of Public
Works means the main-
tenance of Employment
. . . and both are essential
to National Progress and
Prosperity.
jrJ
APPLY EARLY
COMMONWEALTH LOAN
Make early application to any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office,
or to any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
THE LOAN CLOSES NOT LATER THAN 3rd JUNE, 1938, and the Treasurer
reserves the right partially to allot subscriptions.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra.
Treasurer.
The Bulletin
New Serial — “Promenade,” by G. B. Lancaster
Vol. 59.—N0. 3040.
Thursday, May 19, 1938*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to:—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
WALTER DE LA MARE.
Walter de la Mare has now been included in
Dent’s “Everyman’s.”
Not even W. B. Yeats, deciding with Dowson
and Lionel Johnson at the Cheshire Cheese that they
would carry on the romantic tradition and choose for
their themes “traditional sanctity, loveliness,” set out
more deliberately to be a poet than did De la
Mare on the evidence of all the delicate books he
published between 1902 and 1934.
Yeats, though he has kept to his “sanctity and
loveliness,” modified his diction as he developed from
the romantic to the philosophic (his “man has created
death” is a long way from the earlier “cloud-pale eye-
lids and dream-dimmed eyes”), but De la Mare has
clung so tenaciously to his notion of how poetry
should be written—or at least how he should write
it—that he is just as likely this week to write a poem
full of “thous” and “thees” as he was 40 years ago.
Mere fidelity to this “outworn” idiom gives his
work a curious isolation to-day ; so few major writers
care or dare to adopt it that it strikes the ear with
almost the force of originality, as if he had invented
the use of “wandereth” or “Lo! ” Certaintly it’s more
surprising than hearing Auden talk about “ligaturing
the ends of a farewell” to read in a contemporary
book of verse:
Lo, in the milken light, in tissue of gold
Thine apparition gathers in the air—
Nay, but the seas are deep, and the round world old,
And thou art named Despair.
Unimportant or ignorant verse-makers all over
the world, of course, have kept to the old vocabulary,
as if Hopkins, Yeats and Eliot had never lived —
and Queen Anne and Queen Victoria never died —
but for De la Mare to do so, a poet so much in the
swim that he was included in Alida Monro’s bowl
of contemporary goldfish, indicates a deliberate
loyalty to an aesthetic truth. He is convinced that
the language he uses best suits his type of poetry, and
he refuses to abandon it no matter what “clinical” or
mechanistic vocabularies are discovered. The verse
quoted was an early one; but the language in later
poems has not altered. “The Robin,” for instance:
Odd restless child; it’s dark;
All wings are flown
But this one wizard’s—hark! —•
Stone clapped on stone!
Changeling and solitary,
Secret and sharp and small,
Flits he from tree to tree,
Calling on all.
If, like Yeats, De la Mare had modified his
notions of what poetry should be—if he had changed
his subject-matter—his vocabulary would have
changed. You can’t say “thou” to a tractor, even
though Stephen Spender, off his guard, did see a loco-
motive “gliding like a queen.” But there, too, De la
Mare has held fast to his original conception of what
is fitting for his pen. From “The Old Angler,” one
of his earliest poems, and one of the loveliest in the
language, to his Godspeed to Katharine Mansfield
reprinted in Recent Poetry there has been no change.
Birds, animals, landscape, the deep human emotions
and the dangerous world of delight and horror beyond
the brink of sense have always been his province.
“The Old Angler” captured a naiad:
Her green eyes gazed like one half-blind
In sudden radiance; her breast
Breathed the swtet air, while gently twined,
Gainst the cold water pressed,
Her lean webbed hands. She floated there
Light as a scentless petalled flower,
Water-drops dewing from her hair
In tinkling bead-like shower.
And then the angler, who is De la Mare, or
Everyman, searching for the impossible, could not
sustain the vision, and freed her:
She stooped her brow; laid low her cheek,
And steering on that silk-tressed craft,
Out from the listening leaf-hung creek,
Tossed up her chin, and laughed—
A mocking, icy, inhuman note.
One instant flashed that crystal breast,
Leaned, and was gone. Dead-still the boat:
And the deep dark at rest.
From that exquisite piece of music and imagery
to the Katharine Mansfield poem there is no gulf
such as separates Yeats’s Wanderings of Oisin from
The Winding Stair. He sees the horse called
“Genius”:
swift as the wind
That none may master or mount; and none may bind —
But she, his Mistress: cloaked, and at throat that gem—
Dark head, dark eyes, slim shoulder . . .
Godspeed, K.M.!
His command of the world of fantasy is what
De la Mare is best known for ; it is not just a case
of writing make-believe for children —though he does
that charmingly—but he moves naturally in that
world of “more shining woods and more star-glimmer-
ing ponds” that the “Celtic twilight” poets glimpsed
but were always just too literary to enter. It is,
poetically at least, a real world:
First Stranger: Who walks with us on the hills?
Second Stranger: I cannot see for the mist.
First Stranger: Running water I hear
Keeping lugubrious tryst
With its cresses and grasses and weeds
In the white obscure light from the sky.
Third Stranger: Who walks with us on the hills?
Wild Bird: Ay! Aye! Ay!
As much as for this type of writing, De la Mare
commands admiration for his mastery of words. His
phrases are sure; his rhymes delicate. Like his own
birds he “jangles a glass-clear, wildering stave.” Art
of a high order went to make this landscape at once
so real and so musical:
Old ashen rooks, on ragged wing,
And heads with sidling eye,
Sweep in the silvery heights of daybreak,
Silent through the sky.
The restless robin —like a brook
Tinkling in frozen snow —
Shakes his clear, sudden, piercing bells,
Flits elf-like to and fro.
De la Mare has never written an epic saving the
world from Fascism, factories, tobacco or whatever
happens to be the fashionable Aunt Sally. He has
never, like a fish, immersed himself in a “school.”
Because he is a good poet who has stuck to his guns
he has won a place all of his own in English poetry.
Writers in Maoriland.
With a fine serial of early days in Maoriland
running in The Bulletin, the latest P.E.N. Club
gazette, devoted to a review of literary activity in
M.L. during the past year, comes appropriately to
hand. A list of 72 books published in one year is a
fairly sound performance for a country with a total
population of a million and a half.
Nothing quite as good as Promenade is in the
fiction list; but Promenade would be outstanding in
any year’s fiction list in Fernland. The catalogue,
however, with Robin Hyde and Nelle Scanlan, Rose-
mary Rees and Ngaio Marsh—in Maoriland as well
as in Australia women novelists rule the roost —has
its attractions. Rosemary Rees for water-colors,
Ngaio Marsh for good detective yarns, Nelle Scanlan
for rather heavy oils, and Robin Hyde, more careful
as a poet, for cheerful slapdash. The list includes her
Wednesday’s Children, an excursion into fantasy.
Probably the best in the fiction list is J. A. Lee’s
Civilian Into Soldier. Lee, Under-Secretary for Hous-
ing in the Labor Government, writes a good novel
from a humane rather than a political standpoint, and
his revelations of slum and Borstal conditions in
earlier books were sensational in the Upton Sinclair
manner. Stories by James Cowan, who writes of the
Maoris with both knowledge and grace, should be
worth looking at.
Ten of the 13 novels written by Maorilanders last
year were published in England ; how difficult is the
lot of the historian, the biographer, the poet and the
essayist when there is only a small public is shown
by the fact that, of the total crop of 72 books, only 20
were produced by English houses. The Maoriland
publishers Thomas Avery, of New Plymouth, and
A. H. and A. W. Reed, of Dunedin, are helping on
the less popular types of writing, but a large propor-
tion of the authors must have had to find the money
for their work to see the light of day.
It’s a safe bet that some of the 11 poets on the
list did. Robin Hyde and Eileen Duggan found
London publishers, but the others, plus five antholo-
gies, were local products. Apart from those two good
rhymers, the poets were men, with Arnold Wall and
Alan Mulgan at the head of the list. Oddments from
the university group in Christchurch, usually somewhat
solemn and hoarse, might be interesting. D’Arcy
Cresswell, whose Poet’s Progress was a good thing in
prose, has Lyttleton Harbor in verse.
The soundest work of the lot is being done in
history and biography, even though Hector Bolitho,
of Abdication notoriety, was the only one among the
18 in this section to have his work published overseas.
Aveiy’s published three historical works by the late
T. Lindsay Buick, and Whitcombe and Tombs brought
out A. J. Harrop’s weighty England and the Maori
Wars. Among the biographies, Sir Harold Beau-
champ’s reminiscences (Katharine Mansfield was his
daughter) should be worth fossicking into ; Downie
Stewart, an excellent politician and an even better
writer, has done a life of Sir Francis Bell; G. H.
Cunningham compiled Mac’s Memoirs in memory of
Squadron-Leader MacGregor (who figured in War
Birds and competed in the Melbourne centenary air
race); and, to end with a touch of the sublime, H. J.
Wilson wrote the fantastic history of the Bayley
murder trial.
Osbert Sitwell's Circus.
Appreciators of Osbert Sitwell's satiric wit will
find him at the top of his form in Those Were the
Days (Macmillan). He sets out to do what Gals-
worthy planned when he began the Forsyte Saga —to
give an animated picture of his times. Galsworthy’s
characters bolted with him ; Sitwell’s don't. His book
is dramatised social history, and all its wit and abun-
dance cannot change it into anything else.
Those Were the Days begins before the war in
Newborough already depicted in Before the
Bombardment —a watering-place packed with snobs,
sycophants, hypocrites and downtrodden poor rela-
tions. It reaches its climax in the war. “The world
had ended. A wave of hysteria and blood had en-
gulfed it. With the declaration of war Reason, Truth
and Reality had abdicated.” It peters out in post-
war modes and trivialities.
But there doesn’t seem to be much difference
between the three phases of society, pre-war, war and
post-war, as he presents them. They are equally
trivial.
Sitwell’s attack is throughout satiric and mocking.
He mocks so consistently that after a hundred pages
or so —there are 544 —his mockery loses its bite.
The main sweep of the satire is starred with minor
self-contained satires on themes which Sitwell has
long cultivated as his pet aversions rich aunts,
artists, schoolmasters, cricket. It was in an earlier
book that he quoted with approval the cliche that
Waterloo was won on the playing fields of Eton, say-
ing that he well understood that men who could
endure cricket could stand anything, even the charge
of the Old Guard.
The heroine, if such she can be called, is Joanna
Freemartin, of the extensive clan of Freemai tins all
rich, well placed and public-spirited- who marries
Jocelyn Mompesson and dutifully passes through all
the phases typical of her time and environment, to
become, quietly and pleasantly, one of the most brassy
and unsympathetic characters in modern fiction.
Sitwell revels in the long sentence:
In the short, triumphant Florentine spring, which
proudly, if hurriedly, marched from one grandeur to
another under its shields and banners of roses, clustered
in little posies or lolling luxuriant heads from their
own weight, and of a thousand other flowers which
each reigned supreme for a brief season, only at once
to be supplanted by a rival as short-lived in this
outburst of life so intense and exaggerated, when it
appeared as if all the dead had risen from their tombs,
and even the statues posed silently above the water-cool
streets of the shrill noon or sweltering palely in the sun-
drenched spaces had melted, as it were, into action, dis-
solved out of the lines of their petrified condition by the
very fullness and vehemence of their own light, then she
would look at the cold, hard lines of tower and palace,
secure, untouched by this furious tide that attacked the
senses, and would seem to herself able to draw from
these surroundings some feeling of power, discovering
in them a quality akin to her own nature....
The lavishness of the prose with its mounting
imagery and rich cadences is a strange vehicle for
his raking wit.
Sinclair on Ford.
In The Flivver King (T. Werner Laurie), Upton
Sinclair has Henry Ford “on the spot.” He doesn’t
savage him. His attitude, like that of a benign Judge
towards a youthful delinquent, is one of large pity,
though by the time he is finished Henry is plucked of
most of his feathers.
The book begins with a picture of the young
mechanic, not long away from his father’s farm,
tinkering in the disused stable behind his cottage in
Detroit with the first engine of the “horseless carriage”
of his dreams. Towards the end Sinclair gives a
picture of the millionaire as a prisoner of his own
wealth. He lives in fear of attempts on his life and
of his beloved grandchildren being kidnapped. When
he isn’t playing with the bird and antique-furniture
collections that are his refuge from the giant of his
own creating, he is watching his guard of gunmen
to see that they are watching their job. A man with
a million dollars in cash reserves is fair game for
kidnappers.
Ford is shown beginning as an uncompromising
individualist, yet in the end he is the largely impotent
figurehead of a corporation controlled by the upper
ranks of his employees. He begins in the love of
mankind and ends in fear and distrust of it. He is
very sure of himself as a young man, but is bewildered
in his age. The point made is that as a business
develops it becomes an organism, a creature whose
necessities override the will of its nominal owner.
With Ford’s story runs that of a family among
his employees: average American working people.
As a boy Abner Shutt helped Henry Ford drag his
first car out of a boghole, and on the strength of this
gets a job with him later —Ford being that sort of a
man. Shutt, on wages level, follows Ford’s fortunes;
high wages when times are good, part-time in a slump
and the breadline when the works close down. Ford,
the farm boy who became a king, is his hero. His
faith fluctuates with his luck, though on the whole it
is a sustaining force. Towards the end, however, like
Henry, he is bewildered. Unable to stand the pace of
the conveyor-belt on which the cars are built, he has
become a sweeper at much lower wages than he had
to begin with, and he loses the house property he
started to buy. Shutt and his family provide Sinclair
with human relief to the more generalised sweep of
Ford’s story.
Though the aged millionaire is something of a
tragic hero at the end, Sinclair hangs plenty of human
attributes on him. Competitive business is a fight for
survival —and Ford has survived. A slump caught
him with his resources too far extended. He needed
money, and, faithful to a principle by which he was
building his business entirely out of profits, he
wouldn’t borrow. Instead he circularised his thou-
sands of sales agents that each was to take a quota
of cars and pay cash for them. There were storms
of protests, for the agents also were pinched. He
stood his ground and got his money. To finance the
compulsory purchase, his agents went to their banks
and did the borrowing for him. He wasn’t done with
them even then ; he came out soon after with a new
model car.
With the growth of the company and his own
increasing prominence as a public figure, a lot of the
control —and moral responsibility—passed from his
hands. He was a pacifist during the first part of the
war, and publicly declared that he would never manu-
facture a car for war purposes, but his sales bosses
shipped hundreds of thousands of cars across the river
to Canada, and just forgot to tell him about it.
Ford’s announcement many years ago that he
would thenceforward pay a minimum wage of five
dollars a day to his employees enormously promoted
the sales of his cars. An increased minimum was an-
nounced at a time when sales were falling owing to
a temporary general trade depression and when the
wages staff were either being suspended from work
or put on part time. Many thousands of unemployed
from other parts of America flocked to Dearborn.
They were met at the gates of the various plants with
streams of water ejected from pressure hoses.
Later another increase was announced. This time
the Ford company offset the effect in its ledgers,
Sinclair says, by farming a lot of work out to other
manufacturers; and what wages were paid by these
was none of its business. There had been no trade
unions in Dearborn up to then, but tactics of this kind
(Continued on page 8.)


TRUTH
IN AD VERTISING”— always.
“THE SENIOR STORE.
A
m
ppvO £S
19/6
WINTER - WEIGHT
CARDIGANS
15-
A splendid Sweater to
give real protection
from the cold. Cosy
All Woo] Ribbed Knit
with V-neck. Mole,
Navy, Grey, Fawn and
Blue. Sizes 36in. to
42in. chest. ORDER
EARLY. ONLY 175.
Anth o n y Horderns’
Regular Price . . 19/6
* Progress Sale Price,
15/-
18 6, 19/6, 21/-, 25/-
PULLOVERS AND CARDIGANS
Here s a bargain, but early ordering is essential.
Pullovers and Cardigans in warm winter-weight
All Wool. Jacquard design, V-neck. Blue, Grey
or Fawn tonings. Sizes 36in. to 42in. chest.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Prices, 18/6 to 25/-.
Progress Sale Price 12/6
IQ'6
9 6 BRITISH
Poplin Shirts
Stock up on these
Shirts. Look what
you save! They
are made of a
long - wearing
British Poplin in
comfortable Golf
style. Striped
effects in Grey
toni n g s. Two
matching collars.
Sizes I 4in. to I 6in.
neck. 300 only.
A n.t ho n y Hor-
derns’ Regular
Price 9/6
Progress Sale
Price 5/6
iltita
l Hill
mm
till
ft.
m
m
m
8/6 WOOL & COTTON U’WEAR
Natural Wool and Cotton Underwear in a
warm winter weight. Best finish in both
Undershirts and Underpants. Sizes 34in. to
44in. chest or waist.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price ... 8/6
Progress Sale Price 5/9
5'9
10/6 ALL WOOL UNDERWARE
Soft, super-grade Merino Wool Underwear,
in a winter weight. Undershirts or Underpants,
in sizes 34in. to 44in. chest or waist.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price, per
garment 10/6
Progress Sale Price 7/6
7 7 6
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
’Phone: M 2401, DAY and NIGHT
PROGRESS SALE
Ends Saturday, 21st inst.
Just what you need for the winter! One of these
delightfully warm Dressing Gowns. Tailored and all
pure Wool. Overchecks in Blue, Grey or Brown.
Wool girdle and tassel to tone. Sizes 4to 8. 150 only.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price 52/6
Progress Sale Price . 29/6
A
m
\
—m
I :
I
i
r
s
••
52'6 Double Woven Tweed Dressing Gowns
19'6
HORDURA” PYJAMAS
Buy these “Hordura’’ Pyjamas, they’re specially made
for us, and you’ll make no mistake. Woven to wear
of British Flannelette. Full fitting make in small,
medium and outsizes.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price 10/6
Progress Sale Price 9/6
9 7 6
12 6 Extra Warm Suede
Pyjamas
Extra warm Suede Pyjamas made in full-fitting pro-
portions in our own workrooms. Small, medium and
outsizes. Colourful striped effects.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price 12/6
Progress Sale Price 11/6
lie
® Mercery— Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and
seaports in the Commonwealth.


A New Serial by the Author of "Pageant”
by G.B.LAMCASTER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY
A. STUART PETERSON.
111.
' lINCE men (even savages) are incalculable,
Flower merely shrugged his shoulders and
went on weighing ojit oatmeal, nails and
soda when Heke again chopped down the
flagstaff and was again persuaded away by
the missionaries . . . and by Waka Nene,
who most officiously insisted on answering
for his brother-chief’s behavior in future.
“Now is my mana gone if you do it again,” said
Nene to a very distracted Heke, who, having once
absorbed the white man’s Bible and found that it
didn’t agree with him, was not very certain about any
gods just now and actually chased one of his priestly
tohungas with the sharp point of his taiaha.
Nor was Governor Fitzßoy very certain about
anything. But he was so nervous that he rushed
troops over from Sydney and up from Auckland, and
rushed them away again, and took off the customs
duties and tried to put them back, and generally con-
vinced the Maoris that he was very much afraid of
them. Which was perfectly true.
Fitzßoy’s panic would land them in war yet,
thought Jermyn with all a young man’s amusement
for a very bewildered gentleman anxiously offering
sops to a myriad-headed Cerberus. Why the devil
didn’t Fitzßoy fight and be done with it, thought
Jermyn, writing the Auckland “Chronicle” a letter
which nearly got the paper suppressed.
There was, asserted John, something to be said
for Fitzßoy—only nobody wanted to hear it. Fitz-
Roy pleaded that land-titles were too confused ; and
seemingly he didn’t exaggerate, since all Maori land
is communal, and personal rights could be claimed
because a grandfather’s nose had bled on it (a sacred
matter) or because he had had his hair cut there (more
sacred still).
It was a good claim if a man’s father had been
killed on a certain spot, and a better if his father had
been the killer . . . and how was Fitzßoy going to
settle that? Much better, said the colonists, have left
it to the chiefs who never stood any hanky-panky.
But London’s Colonial Office (not having heard a
Maori argue) blamed Fitzßoy. And, as for number-
less immigrants living under boats tilted on their sides
on the Beach because they were unable to get pos-
session of the lands sold them by kindly English syn-
dicates which didn’t trouble about surveys or titles —
as for them, not even Jermyn could find words to
express what they felt.
So he wrote: “The Beach is at present a chapter
of Gulliver’s Travels and Genesis walking hand in
hand, with Revelations to be expected at any moment,”
and went out on the Beach to find it.
ALL kinds of revelations on the Beach at its strange
shadow-play in the red sunset that passed so
wild and soon. All breeds of men. A knot of trading-
captains in thick, short monkey-jackets and tall hats
flinging a shadow as long as yesterday ; sallow ear-
ringed fellows from the Spanish Main, broad, fair
English and Norwegians, huge negroes eating peaches,
lean Yankee boat-steerers and harpooners, nuggety
little breeds from Quebec, Maoris looking like High-
landers in the swinging flax-kilt until you saw the
bulging tweed trousers below. Missionary work,
that. The sign of a Christian. The Lord had surely
a queer way of marking his own, thought Jermyn,
going to drink rum in Corny Fleete’s store, where
Corny was announcing an addition to his piebald
flock and trying to count how many there were now.
“You’ll never know,” said Jermyn. “Come away
before your sins—or your sons —find you out.” He
took Corny off in search of adventure.
All the traders’ lanterns were alight now in the
tin sockets at their doors, belting the Beach with
her scarlet girdle, making her more gaily Rabelaisian
than she ever was by day. A randy girl, the Beach,
like all lands in their beginnings, and doomed (like
them all) to presently bear a dull civilisation fathered
by smug gentlemen overseas.
Corny was looking for a small trader named
Robinson. “I have definite information that he is
connected with the gun-running,” he told Nick Flower,
who had nothing to say, having already said it down
his skilled underground ways. The League was raven-
ing for a victim, and the innocent cat’s-paw Robinson
would do as well as any, thought Flower dispassion-
ately, lounging back into his store.
“There he is,” cried Corny, dragging Jermyn
along. “There’s Robinson with that silly bald head
of his. I’ll punch it.”
The meek little trader standing below his torch
didn’t seem a probable gun-runner. Jermyn pro-
tested: “Are you sure?”
“I’ll swear it,” said Corny, who would swear to
anything after a few drinks. “Look here, you! We’ve
had enough of that damned bald head of yours.”
“Yes, sir,” said little Robinson, cringing before
the richest man on the Beach.
“Yes, sir!” shouted Corny, rapidly becoming
quarrelsome. “The League is going to tar and feather
you and run you out of town on a rail. Smuggling
for the chiefs, are you, you bloody traitor?”
With a squeak of terror the small man darted
like a rabbit past Corny, knocking him off his legs,
zigzagging down the Beach to disappear among the
dark huddle of store?.
“By God! I’ll paste the swine for this,” stuttered
Corny, picking himself up and looking more than
usually like an English squire after a night out. “I’ll
lay he’s gone to the skippers now. I always said the
skippers were behind this trouble, with their cursed
raisin’ of prices and stickin’ together. Come on,
Jermyn. We’ll go to the skippers.”
Reluctantly Jermyn followed through Lambert’s
store, in which a couple of supercargoes were argu-
ing with the clerk, and those dark bulks in corners
might be bags and barrels or dead men. It was
always dangerous to meddle with the skippers, and
Corny, felt Jermyn, was not the best man to do it.
Traders’ back-parlors were sacred to the gentle-
men of the seas, and at Lambert’s, pickled in the
smoke of thick-oil lamps and long churchwardens,
the most influential trading and whaling captains
were used to gather. A mort of queer things were
done in back-parlors wherein these tough scriptural
sailors out of Cape Cod and Nantucket and Stock-
holm sat like Assyrian kings, with their grey goat-
beards and expressionless faces, making (said the
Beach) bargains not at all scriptural with the traders
and—through them —with the chiefs. Powers of life
and death they had, these skippers, who showed so
many scruples on Sundays, but always had the man-
WHAT WENT BEFORE . . .
To New Zealand in 1839 come Lovels —
Peregrine, tall, lean, efficient (“he would have
them all on his shoulders. And he could cany
them, manipulate them, dispose of them to his
will, like God”); easy Sir John, his elder
brother; bluff, bragging old soldier Uncle
Henry ; Jermyn, the untried boy; John’s
Lady Caroline, “Voluptuous without lndelffi
cacy”; Peregrine’s fifteen-year-old wife Sally
(“not even Peregrine, for all his efficiency, could
found a family without a woman”); her
younger sister Darien —all of them impover-
ished in England, but ready, under Peregrine,
to found a new aristocracy in a new land.
They settle at Kororareka Beach, neigh-
bors to Corny Fleete and his half-caste
brood, to Nick Flower the trader, who
smuggles guns to the Maoris and Is “own
brother to Peregrine on the wrong side of the
blanket,” to all the conglomerate riff-raff of
the Beach. Peregrine builds a shipyard ;
builds, too, a family.
In 1840 comes Captain Hobson to annex
New Zealand to the Empire, to shatter Pere-
grine’s dreams of kingship, to sign the Wai-
tangi Treaty giving the land the Maoris owned
back to the Maoris, making trouble for future
Governors in the signing, and then to sail away
to the south to his new capital at Auckland.
And after him a succession of Governors, till
the Maoris, angered by the taking of land
which their land laws make it impossible to
sell and proud in the possession of the guns
they have from Nick Flower and his friends,
think of playing at war.
hood to get the better of ’em by Mondays. To-night,
Jermyn swiftly discovered, was not Sunday.
Better keep out of this, he thought, hearing the
skippers agreeing with Corny that gun-running sure
was a dangerous game and liable to turn the Beach
into Sodom and Gomorrah at any minute. This,
the skippers said, was the business of the English
Governor.
“It’s your business, too, damn it,” stormed Corny,
getting purple. “You’re men of substance, ain’t you?
We colonists confidently count on you to help put
down this damned treason . . . unless you want us
to think you’re backing it.”
The colonists, felt Jermyn, were unfortunate in
their spokesman. Skippers liked to be courted, not
confidently counted on. Captain Ephraim Cobb, of
the brig Osawanka, caressed his grizzled beard with
a slow hand.
“Sir, the Queen o’ England has elected to make
this li’l island a noo feather in her crown, an’ I
reckon she’ll hev to wear it as best she can. I don’t
reck’lect that she ast for our help when she chose to
annext a country that was gettin’ on very well with-
out her. Maybe the chiefs air troubled at the way
she’s been clappin’ on taxes an’ interferin’ wi’ liber-
ties. Maybe we air, too.”
Back in the reek other skippers expressed
approval of Captain Cobb’s statement.
Corny, full of clumsy bluff and bribery, could
not move skippers, mulcted by Customs on everything
from flenching-spades to soap and sarsaparilla, nor
trading-captains who sold less goods now that Customs
took its heavy toll. They answered him unemotion-
ally that it was for the League to deal with Robinson
if they thought necessary, but that for them to assist
settlers in a foreign country might bring on inter-
national complications. This damning of New
Zealand as a foreign country, whereas once they had
tenderly felt it their own, so proved their depth of
bitterness that even Corny gave up, promising to send
Peregrine to them.
“He’ll put some sense into you,” he declared,
marching out. “There goes Hone Heke! Good
Lord!”
Like a majestic Highlander the chief strode by,
shoulder and loin mats swinging, the greenstone mere
of royalty in his hand, a bodyguard of marching war-
riors behind. “Chucked his trousers, too,” cried
Corny, almost plaintive in his dismay. “And now he’s
goin’ to the skippers” . . .
“Here’s Peregrine,” said Jermyn, relieved. Thank
God for Peregrine, who always knew what to do.
Peregrine, it appeared, decided to settle Robinson first
as an example.
“These meek little men are always the most dan-
gerous,” he said, walking up the Beach like a stork
with a long shadow. “You say he knocked you down,
Corny? That’s enough to begin with. The League
will attend to him.”
The cold Peregrine was almost excited, thought
Jermyn. And no wonder, seeing how this long scandal
over the gun-running had galled him. Now he had
his scapegoat, though Jermyn didn’t believe that poor
scared little Robinson had anything to do with it.
Yet maybe it would send Lovels to Auckland before
the explosion came . . . and quite time, with ladies
keeping carpet-bags packed and bundles of clothes
by their children’s beds these six months past in pre-
paration for sudden flight.
IV.
VET the explosion got ahead of Peregrine after all,
although Robinson was safely tarred and feathered
and ridden on a rail, Nick Flower attending as one
of the League members, showing no more than a
proper interest. Since Providence has decreed that
the weakest must go to the wall, it was not for Flower
to upset her plans.
But plans were upset a few days later when Heke,
with an energy which surprised himself, suddenly cut
down the flagstaff once more and sent his warriors
along the beach with instructions to frighten the Eng-
lish. “Do not kill. Just make them understand that
we are their masters,” directed Heke, sitting tight on
Maiki Hill as a precaution against missionary per-
suasions and wondering if Waka Nene would believe
him if he said afterwards that his men had got out of
hand.
Now we’re for it, thought Flower, hearing the
crackle of rifle-fire and heavy-cannon rumble from
H.M.S. Hazard, stationed permanently in the Bay. He
snatched down his cutlass and ran out, pausing to lock
the door. Maoris never thieved, but the white men
did . . . and here came soldiers and marines, pouring
ashore from the. Hazard, doubling up the Beach with
a gleam of bayonets, of eyes. And here, there, every-
where leapt the Maoris like devils in a pantomime,
like naked overgrown boys at play. War, for the
Maoris, was the only real play.
So here was another weakest going to the wall.
Heke, good man, had challenged England’s forty
millions, and the best he would get out of it was some
practice with his guns. Nick Flower, ranging him-
self immediately among the forty millions, went up
to rescue Lovel ladies, not guessing how many sinews
of war he would be smuggling into the country for
the next twenty years.
Ladies, it appeared, are more incalculable than
men. Fainting at a mouse, they yet seem to relish
danger, never playing the game that a man expects.


Mrs. Lovel, though white as a ghost, was filling a
pillow-case with food, smiling at the children (“the
little brave lady”), smiling up at Flower.
“Mr. Lovel said he would send someone to take
us to the Arsenal. We are ready,” she said.
“Monstrous early for them to start this non-
sense,” cried Darien, buttoning up Brian. “I vow
I’ve had no time to wash the sleep out of my eyes.”
But her eyes shone like diamonds, and her cheeks
were pink roses. Flower (always so moved by
women) would have liked to take her in his arms.
But he took baby Jerry instead. “And give me some
of those bundles,” he said.
“Mr. Lovel had to go to the League . . . Oh,
thank you. Tiffy . . . Roddy . . . here are your bundles,
dears.”
Pioneer children already knew that they must
never be afraid. Stoutly they loaded up their little
arms ; stoutly joined in “Red plumes of the kaka”
when Nick Flower began it going down the hill under
the white manuka-wreaths, their red-and-white check
frocks bobbing in the sunlight, and Peregrine rushing
half-way up the hill to meet them. John and Corny
could attend to the League while he got his sons
safe to cover.
“Please God,” whispered Sally, walking with
loaded arms beside Mr. Lovel and seeing the startled
Beach such a whirl of white-trousered legs, blue
trousered legs and legs with no trousers at all, such
a smother of smoke and flying sand and the reek of
gunpowder, with the Hazard booming over all.
QN the waterfront the little munition store had
always known itself for a possible place of refuge.
It accepted women and children to the best of its
small powers, while (battling royally in back parlors,
round the tiny white church, round overturned boats
and great brown piles of oil-casks) the English were
holding on. Peregrine, clattering with pistols and
cutlasses, melted off into the reek, Nick Flower melted,
and the door was shut. Caroline, weighed down with
bags, bonnet-boxes, pomade pots, trailing shawls and
a large magenta feather-fan, was somehow contriv-
ing to brandish a poker.
“Vulgar upstarts! They cannot frighten me,”
cried Caroline, coming out strongly as a pioneer.
Maori wives and children of traders had probably
taken to the hills ; but Corny Fleete had thrust in his
protesting family ; and down on the earth floor boys—
white, brown and piebald boys—punched and kicked
each other for the glory of their race, while little
Hemi Fleete (his mixed blood asserting itself for
the first time) fought Lovels, fought his brothers with
tears running down his brown face. Gentlemen so
ready to leave such of their mistakes to God had
not considered the future of Hemis.
“They need hymns,” said Caroline, and walked
about among the crowded women singing “Hark the
Herald Angels,” and clearly considering herself one
of them ; while Sally fed everyone from the pillow-
case, and pulled a furious Tiffany out from the crowd
of boys, and Darien tried to climb through a loop-
hole to watch all these romantic happenings outside
and see if any Maori had sense enough to kill Pere-
grine.
Then came a battered Major Henry and big
Bishop Selwyn (who was trying so hard to make the
Beach respectable) and took them all off to the ships
—which was a grave enough foreshadowing to silence
even Caroline. JJp on Maiki Hill Heke was per-
turbed. He would never be able to convince Waka
Nene that it was only a joke. But when all the white
men suddenly rowed off after the ladies Heke came
down the hill in a terrible hurry. This was not fair.
No sensible chief desires to get rid of such lucrative
attachments as traders, and what was going to happen
now?
On the ships outraged marines were also demand-
ing to know what was going to happen now, demand-
ing the name of the officer who had ordered the
recall. “We could have held them till Kingdom
Come,” they howled. “We could have beaten the
devils. What will the Maoris do now that they find
the whites running from them in their first fight?”
It was to be twenty years and more before the
Maoris (heartened by that blunder) finally stopped
fighting; but at present they were being very sur-
prised along the Beach and not at all knowing what to
do with their unexpected conquest. Yet there was
loot in the stores. And though they didn’t care for
rum there was so much of it. And presently some-
one upset a lighted lamp ... So the Beach went up
in flames, with tattoed warriors garbing themselves in
nightcaps, petticoats and other fancies very happily,
while dead whites lay where they fell since everyone
was now too civilised to put them in the pot . . .
which was a pity.
“And all our best carpets and things never even
unpacked,” lamented Caroline. But Heke, who was
really a great gentleman, although Nene never thought
him so again, put a tapu on most of the settlers’ effects
and they all came to Auckland later with the gear of
Peregrine’s shipyard.
Haini Fleete was demanding a boat to take her
ashore. “I will go to my own people,” said Haini,
tall and stately with her brood about her. Corny
gripped her roughly by the arms, thrusting his blood-
smeared face into hers.
“My people are your people. You’ll go where I
go, and remember that your children are English,” he
said. “I’ll stand no nonsense from you, Madam.”
He had never taken that tone with her before,
being an easy man. But the clash of these two strong
arrogant races had now fairly begun ; and each knew
it and feared the other, thought Sally, seeing Haini
turn silently away, and so sorry for her. Men (one
supposed) called that sort of thing protection.
V OUNG Tiffany knew that the sky chose to go mad
" every sunset and one couldn’t do anything about it;
but the Beach never had before. Yet here it was
having a great and terrible sunset of its own. It was
galloping with blue and scarlet tongues and a mon-
strous crest of black streaming hair ; biting all the
houses into bits; tossing their limbs up under explod-
ing oil-barrels ; running in glowing rivers to the sea.
It gobbled up Nick Flower’s store with its shelves
of mysterious wonders, gobbled Lambert’s . . .
Slowly they sank in dark heaps full of quiver-
ing flickers, and the fire went leaping on. The houses
and stores couldn’t be gone for always? Surely,
surely there wasn’t really an always that took things
away for ever? “No, no, no,” screamed. Tiffany, meet-
ing for the first time the implacabilities ranged against
her. She went charging down the deck to the dim
corner where Roddy too watched the fire. To him
that fierce and lovely thing was something one could
die for, and he put his arm round Tiffany protect-
ingly.
“It’s like the Burning Bush in the Bible, Tiffy. I
nearly saw God just now”
Wind that fanned the flames was gathering in
the rigging now. Tall sails filled, sweeping down the
harbor to-night and the open sea. In a tiny cabin
Caroline prepared for seasickness while her children
had got ahead of her everywhere. In the corner under
a lantern Darien scribbled in her diary:
“We are going to Auckland which is full of
beautiful soldiers and men to run after me. I am very
glad I was born and so will they be.”
Peregrine walked the deck with a tired Sally
meek on his arm. Already he was busy reconstructing.
He would call on Governor Fitzßoy at once. Oppor-
tunities . . . ministerial . . . political ... my chance
has come, thought Peregrine, energetically walking Sally
off her trembling legs. “Please God, let Auckland be
easier than the Beach,” whispered Sally. It had been
so hard to laugh at anything on the Beach.
“I think, Sir John,” said Caroline, lifting a hag-
gard head from the pillow, “that I shall have a son
in Auckland.” Her tone implied that she had not
thought it worth while before.
The ship slewed round the Heads and turned
southward into the dark. The first step in New
Zealand’s pioneering was over. But Lovels, thought
Peregrine, glancing proudly round, were very well
capable of taking plenty more.
1.
ESSEHbIBRUPT occurrences go along with pioneer-
ing, and visions Jong mellowed by gestation
“ 5 have a habit of finally confronting their-
E 3 I parents with horrid fact. Facts in Auck-
-5 land, where Lovels and other refugees
spent many months dividing and reuniting
like protoplasm ip the small houses of har-
ried ladies short of everything but kindness, became
actually coarse, presenting less privacy and consider-
ably more complications than the Beach.
Caroline was the first to achieve a house of her
own, since the whole community lent a hand there,
and (although it could never be described to ladies in
England) it possessed the supreme merit of raising its
four rooms and gabled attic in Official Bay, exclusive
home of the gentry.
“Of course everyone will call on Lady Lovel and
I always think it so right to be prepared,” said Caro-
line, putting on her best lemon kid gloves and sit-
ting in state for callers as soon as she had a chair
to sit on. Sally and her family floated longer, to be
compensated by a fine new house which Peregrine
imported from Sydney in sections and thus turned
Caroline purple with envious anger. He filled all its
ample spaces with Brussels carpets, long mirrors and
tall carved chairs that had been for so long interred
in packing-cases.
“It was kind of John to let Peregrine have some
of our family portraits, Sally,” said Caroline, inspect-
ing gold-framed ancestors on pale-blue garlanded
wall-paper. “I always think he is too kind. Such a
pity your walls are not in .the fashionable red flock.
All my principal rooms are papered in flock.” Indeed,
Caroline was finding it very hard to be civil to Sally ;
and when Peregrine called his house Lovel Hall, for
a whole month she did not try to be.
SALLY had other troubles besides Caroline. There
were the children always being Maoris in kitchen
mats out in the back yard and trying to tattoo each
other with oyster-shells, until Peregrine discovered that
Kororareka had not been burned down a moment
too soon and brought governess ladies to supervise the
making of pothooks and hangers with sharp sticks
in boxes of damp sand —paper being far too valuable
for children.
But these ladies came and went in an agitated
cloud since the boys, they said delicately, were too
experimental. Yet sticking pins in ladies’ legs and
putting dead mice in their chairs was not experiment.
The boys knew what would happen. And it always
did, even to the thrashings which Mr. Lovel (who
prided himself on his justice) daily administered to
all his offspring.
Then there was Darien. Since Auckland, being
entirely military and respectable, did not suffer young
ladies to walk abroad unattended, Darien at once put
on her new green bonnet (with a little white tulle frill
-inside) and set out to teach Auckland the worth of
that convention.
“Am I a stalking pestilence?” she demanded,
looking so delightful with her masses of auburn ring-
lets and the delicious pinks-and-whites of her provo-
cative charming face with its firm little chin that
Sally almost went on her knees with pleadings.
“Indeed, darling, you are too handsome . . . and
it is not proper. With a gentleman” . . .
“Where am I to get the gentleman if I don’t go
look for him, you owl?” demanded Darien, feeling
that Sally was not all a sister might expect. With
no Graham boys, and with Jermyn and all the other
handsome young bucks gone to Heke’s war or to
Wellington, where other Maoris were becoming very
lively, Auckland, like Sally, was not at all what one
might expect either. Darien felt herself wasted ; and,
since Major Henry had now told her all about Lady
Hamilton, where was the use of being like her if
Darien couldn’t find a Nelson? And Auckland was a
horrid nasty little town, no better than a puling infant
for all its airs.
DESIRABLE as the dawn and stepping like Atalanta
in pantalettes, Darien went through the muddle of
manuka, flax-bushes, tree-ferns and tall trees career-
ing over hills and up and down gullies where small
houses sat on their haunches here and there like lost
dogs. Britomart Hill had the barracks . . . and also
a high wall which not even an active girl could climb.
But there was still Commercial Bay, sacred to the
gentleman and business.
All kinds of flotsam in these steep little narrow
streets where nobody appeared to know that all the
Lovel connection was Quality and to be respected as
such. Draggled women snatched away Darien’s shawl,
tucking it under their rags. Drunken sailors tried to
snatch a kiss. Bullock-drays bumping over rocks and
stones had drivers who said things that surprised even
her. In Shortland Street with its rickety little shops,
shawled ladies on the arms of top-hatted gentlemen
glanced at her and looked away. Gentlemen looked
too long. She felt uneasily conscious that she might
be a pestilence after all.
Indeed, New Zealand’s capital was stiff with mili-
tary etiquette ; well-schooled ladies rarely emitted a
squeak when being helped across puddles and tus-
socks or even when negotiating the highly alarming
foot-bridges spanning the rivulet galloping down steep
Queen-street to the muddy foreshore. Dangers, pigs,
dogs, goats, smells, sweating men wheeling unsavory
barrows, all were superbly ignored . . . but never so
completely as a girl walking alone . . . the brazen
hussy!
Peregrine, coming off the little wharf where
Corny, Flower and other enterprising traders had
walked their little offices out on stilts to invite de-
liberating ships, saw a young girl in a green bonnet
outside the Queen’s Head tavern with a crowd of
Maori lumpers and grinning sailors in flat glazed
hats about her. For a minute he couldn’t believe his
eyes, and when he did he couldn’t trust his tongue.
Silently he tucked Darien’s arm under his and took
her home, guarding his breath till the door was shut.
Darien (who, for the first time in her life had
suspected herself frightened) knew it now. One didn’t
mind being called indecent. Peregrine would have
called Lady Hamilton that. But one did mind being
told that one will be cut by the whole town . . .
especially with a weeping Sally to corroborate it.
Never to be asked to routs or balls or kettledrums.
Never a chance to catch a beautiful young buck . . .
“Oh, what a horrid wicked town,” cried Darien. “1
know it will make me wicked, too.”
Peregrine intimated that she was that already and
went off in a stew to consult Major Henry. The
Major guffawed. “The damned spirited little bag-
gage! Do the right thing by her, boy, and in a few
years she’ll be the talk of the town.”
“She is that now,” said Peregrine very icy.
“Not she! No one knows her ... a chit in half-
mast frocks and pantalettes. Seclude her. Seclude her
until she gets sense and I’ll wager she does us all
credit.”
Peregrine remarked that one might as easily
seclude a hurricane. He was really upset and his hair
looked as though Darien had grabbed it. The Major
considered. “She must be schooled. There’s a Mrs.
Williams . . . Symposium for Young Ladies . . . just
opened up Karangahape-road. Strict as the dooce, I
fancy, but with all the elegancies. Send her there.”
“I —ah —she might refuse to go.”
The Major nearly whistled. By the Lord Harry,
the young miss had got even the great Peregrine
shaky. “Let me talk to her,” he said, scenting a
pleasurable interview.
PVRIEN, her nose swollen with furious weeping,
received her first balm when the Major winked at
her over his high gill-collar.
“Well, young lady, you’ve scandalised us all, and
if I were a bit younger, damn it, I’d marry you
myself.”
“You can,” said Darien eagerly. Hadn’t some
stuffy Sir William been the way to Lord Nelson?
“Er” . . . The Major sat down with a moment’s
pity for Mrs. Williams. “No, no, my dear; you
have better than that ahead if you’ll only listen to
me.”
It was a terrible listening, and she cried until
one could have wrung out both her handkerchief and
the Major’s. But thank the Lord for her sense of


drama, her mother-wit. Seclusion for a year or so ;
absorbing all the graces, the subtleties of a young
lady—and then to burst on the town, bring it to her
feet . . . “By the Lord Harry, my dear, you can do
it if ever a girl could. But you must sharpen your
weapQns. Sharpen your weapons.”
“The horrid place will be bigger then? More
military?”
“Lord, yes. It will be.” To get Darien into her
nunnery was there anything he wouldn’t promise?
Swarms of pomatumed young bucks breathing adora-
tion, breathing slaughter against their kind . . . you
couldn’t lay the butter on too thick for such an
infernal young egotist as Darien . . . “And for heaven's
sake learn how to use your hands. A fan would be
no better than a warming-pan to you now. Egad,
I’ve seen ladies”....
The Major enlarged, went away inflating his
chest. Gad, who said he had forgotten how to handle
the Sex? Good wine must be matured, and there
was good red wine here. The girl would go to her
penance like a young knight into battle. “I fancy,”
murmured the Major, “that I had better see Mrs.
Williams myself.” Women, even the best of ’em,
were only good when they had no chance to be
otherwise . . . and who could blame the dear creatures
since they had so few chances?
11.
77| HERE Peregrine did not find chances he made
111 them, thought Jermyn, witnessing on one of his
flying visits from Wellington and Sydney Pere-
grine’s conquest of little blue Mechanic’s Bay, already
so full of shipbuilders that it couldn’t abide another.
But Peregrine bought out one builder, ruined a second,
went partners with a third (hadn’t Jermyn told the
Major that our Peregrine had a Quality?) and settled
down to brisk and elegant competition with Niccol,
Graham and other established kings of the sea. Soon
there was a lovely clipper on his stocks, and rafts of
brown kauri-logs lying offshore, while many of the
thirty-foot, sharp-pointed whaling-boats came from
the yard of Lovel and Brackley.
Auckland was far too full of laws, taxes and
little committees, declared Peregrine, getting on most
of the committees at once to keep them in order.
Now he was on the Harbor Board, too, said Major
Henry, marvelling ; but Jermyn (who looked so much
older and handsomer, with those little side-whiskers a
darker golden-brown than his hair) shrugged, remark-
ing that it was Peregrine’s Jovian certainty that did
it. “He could always bamboozle folk. And he is
such a perfect gentleman,” said Jermyn.
Major Henry (who bragged about Peregrine now
that he was providing such good pickings for all) did
not care for Jermyn’s tone and said so. But Jermyn
laughed, going up the hill to call on Sally, whom he
hadn’t seen for a month of Sundays. Yet, curiously,
she had hovered in his mind like an elusive fra-
grance ever since he had last seen her.
For all his light handling of life the unease of a
restless boy had only developed the greater unease of
the matured man in Jermyn. Sydney with its charm-
ing young ladies and its friendly newspaper offices
was not enough for him. Nor was the bush enough, so
lovely and so darkly terrible with its ancientry of vast
trees. Nor campfire talk and ribaldry, nor the joy
that comes of good stuff written under stress and
sweat and acclaimed by one’s fellow-men. All Dead
Sea apples, thought Jermyn, luxuriating in a young
man’s disillusions.
Supremely self-centred as Darien, whose incar-
ceration he had heard of with shouts of laughter,
Jermyn opened Mr. Peregrine Lovel’s handsome gate
and went up between sweet-peas and roses (the witch-
ing ladies) to sit with Sally in a dim-lit room. Witch-
ery here, too, in the delicate dimness ; a remoteness
about Sally with her bent brown head by the candle,
her pale hands busy in some dark work, the vague
flowerlike spread of her lavender gown. Sally might
any moment rise like a spirit and float away, he felt,
trying to nail her to earth with talk of things . . .
any things.
Sally wouldn’t know the Beach now, he told her.
Since men had reconstructed it and called it Russell
it would never be a randy girl again. And Heke,
a royal rebel still, sat defeated in his pa.
“No more hakas in the north now, Sally. The
English have spoiled all those wild war-dances there.
You remember the hakas on the hills?” In silence
she remembered . . . But Jermyn must tell her of him-
self ; of his successes, and presently he was talking
with a color and flow of words so different from Mr.
Lovel’s precise sentences that she could have laughed
for joy. Yet one must not laugh at this dear eager
Jermyn with the tawny reflections from his coat
bringing such lights into the brown eyes, with his mas-
culine ways (so different from Mr. Lovel’s) making
her feel so different, too.
“You’ve made me feel so young. Isn’t it funny?”
she cried dimpling. And then, with the Major’s old-
fashioned gallantry, he stooped and kissed her hand.
A strange troubling charm in this artless Sally, he
thought, going up to the barracks, where young
officers made him very welcome and told him all the
scandal of the town.
Jermyn could talk scandal, too, since it was la
mode. They drank milk-punch by the gallon until
dawn, when those who were able put those who
were not under the pump. Jermyn, having been under
the pump, was cursed by Major Henry when he got
home. “Good God, boy! You’re a Lovel and can’t
hold your liquor,” cried the Major, wishing he’d been
there to show them.
Jermyn had news. The barracks said gun-run-
ning was rife in the midlands. So Peregrine hadn’t
scotched it. Yet the little wars were valuable deter-
rents to an England clamoring to send convicts,
although one allowed that the wars were a shocking
nuisance to those who wanted to get on with develop-
ing the country . . .
TO Nick Flower it was all grist to his mill of grind-
ing down gentlemen who wouldn’t recognise him
as one, so that he never forgot his bar sinister nor
the heirloom ring on Peregrine Lovel’s finger. Grimly
he was working for money (since money buys every-
thing) ; smuggling guns from as far off as New York,
taking up the lOUs of gay young rips until Auck-
land would have been enchanted by a peep into the
locked safe in his office. Money had bought him
into gentlemen’s clubs, though not into their houses.
But that would come, he thought, passing Mrs. Wil-
liams’s young Amazons on the hills with their riding-
master, collecting whole bouquets of soft glances
from innocent misses fluttered by so large and person-
able a man.
“Like a Viking. Who can he be?” sighed Emma
Stokes afterwards, turning her eyes romantically to
the ceiling. Darien sat on a bed, contemplating her
feet. It was not for these fools to know that Nick
Flower had shod them thrice. She was the Sym-
posium’s model young lady now, and making as good
capital out of that as she had out of the Beach. Now
she rose silently, and began practising her curtsy, so
innocently unconscious of the bright chattering par-
terre of maidens that she tricked them all. Indeed,
if it hadn’t been for this constant game of trickery
she would have kicked the dust of the damned place
from her shoes in a week.
But I am making myself flawless for Jermyn,
thought Darien, who had to have a motive to live up
to. So she rose and sank like a buoyant wave ; stood
flushed and sweet as a daisy before the battery of
admiring eyes.
“Oh, my loveliest, what would I give to curtsy
like you,” gushed Sarah Wells, all emotion. “I vow
the Queen isn’t so graceful.”
“It’s only her long legs,” said Elvira Carson,
being short and fat. Darien blushed modestly at the
mention of legs, and began doing such things with a
fan (though only the mirror at'Lovel Hall knew what
she could do when no one was about) that the young
ladies sighed enviously and went to practising them-
selves, quite unknowing that in the matrimonial race
so soon to begin they would all be her enemies.
Darien knew. She would have Jermyn, and she
would have all the others whom Major Henry had
promised . . . and deserved them, too, after all those
loathsome hours of elegant conversation, of curtsying
until her legs ached, lying strapped on backboards,
managing her skirts (foul work now that five petti-
coats were de rigueur and the flannel and the quilted
satin ones so heavy), learning how to faint like a
lady . . .
“All females faint,” said high-nosed Mrs. Wil-
liams (who knew her world), intimating further that
in order to touch eligible and experienced male hearts
it was quite necessary not to do it like a charwoman.
In spite of daily tightening of staylaces Darien found
fainting difficult and quite revolting . . . since how
could you know what gentlemen were feeling if you
had to keep your eyes shut?
“I do my best,” she told Sally, coming meekly
home for week-ends. “But there is a vast deal to
learn and mathematics make me feel so humble.”
To Sally a humble Darien constantly vanishing
from visitors was so unnatural that she fell on tears
and proclaimed the matter tragic. “With all your
high spirits and gaiety, to lose them so! My poor,
poor darling” . . .
But Sally was far too simple to be trusted. It
was better to say gently that she supposed she was
growing wiser, and slip away like gleaming water to
become wiser yet by a little, quiet practice on Roddy
and Brian, who fought each other daily for her smiles
and received more whippings than ever.
The two boys rode over the hill to school now,
which at least had the virtue of shortening morning
prayers; but Tiffany still endured life in an anguish
of starched sun-bonnets, lessons and rules for every
hour of the day. Daughters, although negligible in a
man’s scheme of values, did exist and therefore must
be disciplined as much as wives, thought Peregrine,
trying to do his best by them all, even though he was
so occupied with a troubled world where Governors
never knew what would happen next and the Colonial
Office was trying to make it happen all the time.
111.
/TOVERNOR GREY (Governors fell like leaves in
M the early days of the Colony, and New Zealand
had disposed of three in a short eight years) was,
as everyone agreed, a stiff stick and icily indifferent
to blandishments. Auckland had still too many taxes,
too many women, and certainly too much Governor
Grey, who thought himself the whole British Con-
stitution and was much ridiculed by Jermyn in the
thin little “Chronicle,” which now appeared twice
weekly. Jermyn (who had come back to stay until
he tired of it and found telling his ambitions t
Sally continually more enjoyable) asserted that
very tightly buttoned into black frock coat an
loosely slid into large trousers of a pale check, was
intended by Providence to be ridiculed. . ,
“I shall call this the Petticoat Government, saia
Jermyn. And did, although Peregrine’s Jovian calm
broke for once, and he swore quite lustily at Jermyn
for embroiling him with the Governor just as Eng-
land discovered' that the Waitangi Treaty was very
far from being what it ought and began hastily divin-
ing the country into New Ulster and New Munster
(which didn’t suggest peace), and dowering it with
provincial assemblies, legislative councils and what
not, all tangled in a vague host of strings tor a
proper man to pull to his advantage.
For a bet Jermyn lampooned Grey as a monthly
nurse feeding a rebellious New Zealand out of a
rum-bottle and stuck it up on the prison door in Vic-
toria-street, just above the stocks. And then, leaving
Peregrine quite speechless, he settled his tall hat a
jaunty cock and went over to Official Bay to tel
Sally all about it.
Caroline (Nature’s spoil-sport) was there, look-
ing as though she had been 'dragged backward
through a briar-patch. A shockingly demoralised
Lady Lovel since John had taken himself, his Here-
fords and his family off into the bush twelve miles
away. Nemesis herself might have pitied Caroline
(who had come in by bullock-dray to have a tooth
out), sitting in rumpled crimson skirts and a draggled
bonnet, complaining: “Sir John is quite impossible.
He never thinks of me.”
Difficult to help it when there’s so much of her,
thought Jermyn. (Gad, how delicious Sally looked
with that white soft fichu and that delicate bloom
in her cheeks.) But he was sorry for Caroline’s girls.
Four —or was it six—of ’em, whom, it appeared, she
was developing so uprightly that there was danger of
their falling backward.
“I give them daily tuition and two collects on
Sundays. With no help but a vulgar immigrant
woman I can do no more,” declared Caroline, pull-
ing on tight gloves of purple kid with a vast sigh. “I
always say Peregrine must have been born with a
silver tablespoon in his mouth while Sir John got a
saltspoon. Good-bye, Sally. You can send Tiffany
out with Sir John if you like and I’ll bring her back
when I come for the Governor’s Ball. I hope she
knows her collects well?”
At the Governor’s Ball, said Sally, dimpling and
eager when Caroline was gone, Darien would “come
out.” She had written Mr. Lovel the most beautiful
letter saying how grateful she was for his goodness,
and now she was finished and would be a lady for
ever. But Jermyn was more interested in the rout
to-night at Sir William Martin’s. “You’ll give me
the first dance, Sally? I’m counting on it.”
“Oh, Mr. Lovel always has that. He says it’s
correct. The second, Jermyn? May I have the
second?”
Feeling the color glowing in her face she was
frightened. It must be wrong to be so glad Jermyn
liked her, to find herself singing about the house for
no reason, to want so often to kiss Tiffany’s dear
roguish little face, although knowing so well that
Mr. Lovel disapproved of demonstrations. It’s just
because Jermyn’s kind and I’m so missing Darien,
thought Sally, who was always running away from
her head to confront her heart and then running
back again.
“Very well. The second,” said Jermyn in a queer
voice and going away so abruptly that she knew she
must have offended him. But how could she help it,
she thought, hearing the tears in her voice as she
instructed her own immigrant maid about the dinner.
IV.
SINCE England, having descried a virgin upon the
horizon, had sent out Hobson to mend that, New
Zealand (thought Jermyn) had become any man’s
Moll, poor dear ; with whites pushing in everywhere,
to be pushed on by indignant chiefs, and all the Eng-
lish at tantivy among themselves, while keeping a
more or less stout front against the natives. A tragic,
sweet,, bewildered country, this New Zealand . . .
who should have been left to dream among her
ancient murmuring trees, along her golden beaches,
instead of becoming a stamping-ground for pirates.
Yet Official Bay, home of the gentry, had by now
quite a sprinkling of fine houses among the fern and
scrub, with the Bishop’s palace and the Chief Justice’s
mansion down near the waterfront—to stopper them
all up from harm, said Jack O’Reilly, going down


with Jermyn to the Chief Justice’s rout through a
windy night that set their cloaks a-blowing. Two gay
young bucks, very lively in the hot night, sniffing deli-
cately at wallflower and stocks standing in the garden
to retrieve English minds from wild thoughts gar-
nered among wild odors on the hills.
“Damn it, I am English,” said Jermyn as though
just now he had been something else.
Now the gentlemen were hanging their cloaks like
a black row of dreams in a side room, hearing the
brittle feminine twitter across the hall. How many
of these fellows had (like O’Reilly) a wife in old
England and made hay while the sun shone just the
same?
And here they were shouldering into the long,
low room, so seductive in soft candle-light with the
gleam of white arms and bosoms, the gloss of ring-
lets, the bright sharp color of flowers, of scarves, the
sly enticement of moving fans, the mysterious provoca-
tion of half-turned cheeks ... in short, all the weapons
of dear woman, and be damned to her, thought im-
pecunious officers, certain that they should not marry
and equally certain that they would.
Here was a Sally radiant in glimmering green and
grey, with a silver garland for the bright brown hair
smoothly rolling away from white temples. Youth
and better ease had triumphed over the weary slave
of Kororareka. Jermyn, scribbling initials here and
there, felt with a start how young Sally really was.
He had never known the Sal-volatile that Darien had
known . . . But wasn’t this Sal-volatile laughing her
fresh little laugh at old Sir Winston Chard (damned
raddled old dandy with his flowered waistcoat and
yellow wig, a seasoned left-over from the Regency,
ogling and bowing . . . ); laughing at Jermyn, at
everything, at nothing, for it was so wonderful of
Jermyn to want all those dances, though, of course,
he couldn’t have them.
“Two only, sir,” cried Sally, holding up slim
white-gloved fingers as Peregrine (his eyes were still
too close together) took her away. This, thought Sally,
trying to keep step with Mr. Lovel, is living.
From the wall Jermyn watched. A monstrous
number of pretty girls to-night, but Sally shone among
them like white fire. And at fifteen she had been
married to long dark Peregrine, who was stiffish even
in his cups. God help her, thought Jermyn, feeling
a sudden rage of pity that persisted even when he led
her out for the quadrille.
But Sally was wanting no pity to-night. She
wanted to romp, to sing ; and the wave of her hand,
the gay glance she flung him as she floated to centre
with the ladies was assuredly Sal-volatile, corked up
for so long and now disseminating a wild tingling
essence, a stinging delight that would turn any man’s
head. And when she came again it was like Life
itself advancing, lifting him from his petty days into
some high and glorious realm untrod before bringing
benison in both small outstretched hands.
He did not refuse it. One does not refuse such
rich gifts at their moment. Bowing, turning her, ad-
vancing, retreating, he saw all in a golden haze ; saw
her silver circlet a halo round her head. Still held
by the enchantment he took her presently with her
warm fragrance and shining eyes to the couch behind
the fern-tree screen in a corner.
“Oh, I feel as if I had really caroused at last,”
said Sally, sinking on the bright cushions and shut-
ting her eyes with the sheer joy of it. She felt him
bending over her; started, then met his look in a
long gazing that passed for ever through the veils for
them both. Gravely he stooped lower; then sud-
denly caught her close, meeting her parted lips with
his.
jy|AJOR HENRY, twirling his moustachios, mak-
■ I ing a leg to the ladies, visiting, like some errant
bee, whist-tables and supper-rooms, presently discerned
the unmistakable legs of a man, the unmistakable
shadowy skirts of Sally behind the ferns and backed
off, muttering profanely.
So this was what she would be at, the minx, and
no more than he might have expected since he had
always considered Sally’s morals too good to last.
Major Henry (having had so much experience) in-
stantly feared the worst, and his leathery cheeks red-
dened. No scandal allowed among Lovels, egad, and
this cursed little town was a perfect witches’ brew of
scandal, with everyone pilloried in the papers for
the pleasure of clubs and kettledrums. “Oh, my
dear ... so shocking! Have you heard” — “He’ll
never call the fellow out. I wager that Peregrine
Lovel”— The Major anxiously patrolled the
corner to keep invaders off and recalled the Maori
proverb that all a man’s troubles come from women
and land.
Behind the fern Jermyn sat with face hidden in
his hands ; but if Sally’s. face expressed what her
heart felt he should have seen it shining through his
fingers. So this was the interpretation of these last
sweet months of secret joy, and now one deep kiss
had declared the foolishness of secrets, the brevity
of this little life of separation and pain. What were
fifty or even sixty years of what Darien called vir-
tuous promenade with Mr. Lovel set against an
eternity of bliss with Jermyn? Sally, who never saw
life quite like other people (hadn’t her first notion
of the Annexation been England reaching out with a
long toasting-fork?), flipped her fingers at sixty years.
Mr. Lovel (one knew quite well) was for Now ;
but with For Ever ahead she could wait, thought
Sally, so used to waiting. It would not be long, she
thought, already flying to it, hearing the angels blow
their welcoming trumpets . . . “Fifty ... or even
sixty years isn’t so very long, Jermyn,” she ventured.
“Not compared with For Ever.”
“What are you talking about?” He raised his
face, so suddenly gone haggard that she must be very
gentle.
“I’m sure God wouldn’t mind that one kiss, dear.
It was only to explain. We can wait now we know
we shall have eternity. You see, Mr. Lovel and I
could never find each other in eternity because we
have no love to guide us. But you and I ... it will
be like a star, won’t it? We’ll find each other at
once” . . .
A frightening Jermyn, this; staring out of fierce
eyes with his face so blotched with red, his elegance
in such strange disarray. Sally stood up, grateful
to her legs for bearing her since she had rather feared
they wouldn’t.
“I ... I think you had better take me back to
the others. Please don’t feel we’ve been very wrong,
Jermyn. I think God just wanted us to understand.
Now we can wait, you see.”
He was swaying slightly as he stood. A big
fellow, Jermyn, now that he had filled out.
“You don’t know much of men,” he said, very
slowly. “For a married woman you don’t know much
of men.”
“I know you,” said Sally, feeling herself begin-
ning to tremble.
“By God, you don’t!” He gave a croak of a
laugh, staring at her steadily with a bright flame in
his eyes.
“Hrumph,” coughed Major Henry, returning in
a hurry as a couple approached the corner. “Sally!
Are you there? Peregrine wants you,” he invented in
a hurry. “Lost a button or something” . . . cried the
Major to Sally coming out, fastening a glove with
bent head. For Jermyn following he had only a
“Good God!” of disgust. So he had put himself in
all that fantique for Jermyn. “A pleasant evening,
Major,” said Jermyn, going away.
“I have not found it so, sir,” snapped the Major,
tucking Sally’s hand under his arm and getting in a
panic again to feel its trembling. She was look-
ing .. . and Jermyn had looked . . . looked like . . .
And Jermyn was only a cousin of Peregrine’s and a
precious reckless fellow. And women were never any
better than they should be.
JETTING ready for bed with Mr. Lovel, Sally still
moved in the miracle. This bright revelation was
yet too new to include the physical, and one man
had already given her more than she wanted of that.
Jermyn’s kiss had been a pledge of something infi-
nitely lovelier than marriage, and a woman needs a
home for her heart as well as for her body. Much
more, thought Sally, plaiting up the long brown
ripples of her hair just as though everything had not
a fairer color, a sweeter sound . . . even Mr. Lovel was
a sweeter sound talking of Mrs. Pinshon, who had,
it appeared, been particularly disagreeable to-night.
“An insufferable woman,” he said, poising the
extinguisher above the candle, looking like an extin-
guished candle himself in his long nightshirt.
“She may get better when she’s older,” suggested
Sally, so sorry for a Mr. Lovel who could be bothered
by Mrs. Pinshon.
“She will be worse,” said Mr. Lovel, laying him-
self down like an oracle.
He slept, but Sally could not. The world seemed
to have taken wings and flown right up to heaven.
Heaven would be so full now, and she had always
seen herself so lonely there. Darien and the children
would, of course, have their own dear lovers and
companions, but the best she had hoped for was to
escape a Mr. Lovel who would always be trying to
improve the angels.
Oh, I’m afraid sixty years is going to be longer
than I thought, whispered Sally, beginning to cry
softly into her pillow.
V.
CIFFANY and Roddy (with sometimes Hemi and
Eriti Fleete) had a private world where they traf-
ficked gloriously with goats, giants, Maori tohungas,
Queen Victoria, and a Chinese god called Pang out of
a book of Major Henry’s ; and visits to Uncle John’s
farm were purgatory, thought Tiffany, because her
world could never accompany her there. “Couldn’t
one of the boys go this time? It’s so always me?”
begged Tiffany, her warm-colored little face so piteous
under the bright curls that Sally was hard put to it
to deliver Mr. Lovel’s dictum that as there were only
girls at- the farm it wouldn’t be proper.
So Tiffany sighed (since parents always got the
last word), and was presently tied into a clean checked
sun-bonnet and bulging cotton pantalettes to accom-
pany John, who had brolight Belinda with him, to
the farm in a bullock-dray.
John, quite the farmer now, would have enjoyed
chewing a straw only he rather feared Linda, who
always gave him away to Caroline.
So he chewed instead the proposition just
advanced to him by Peregrine and felt humbly grate-
ful. Old Peregrine was the man to make money.
John, dang it, never would. Even those steers from
which he had hoped so much had sold badly, the
monthly market being overstocked. Must go in more
for Clydesdales, as Peregrine advises. Army needs
’em, thought John, pushing back his wide cabbage-
tree hat to glance at Belinda (all gloves, bonnet and
propriety) prim on the seat beside him.
Five girls to find husbands and dowries for, as
Caroline was always reminding him. Five dull little
pieces like Linda, thought John, turning with relief
to ardent Tiffany with bonnet flying, weaving her own
secret games of magic round the bullocks lurching
up between wastes of burned blackened timber, lurch-
ing down to squelch through creeks of emerald mosses
in woody dells. “Don’t you want to run with Tiffy,
Linda?” he asked.
“It is not genteel, papa,” answered Linda, putting
papa in his place. John, stimulated by town, nearly
pitched her out by the nape of her prim neck and the
tail of her stiffened skirts. But where was the use?
She would only get him into a row with Caroline,
who was so full of rows already.
IT gave Tiffany a kind of muddy feeling to come
from that vast sweet murmuring freshness outside
into the stuffy ill-lit passage with red Aunt Caroline
(in soiled apron and hung all over with chains and
lockets) pecking her cheek and all the pale pigtailed
cousins in a row being shocked at the torn edging on
her pantalettes.
“You are late, Sir John,” said Caroline. “But, of
course, you never think of me.”
“Peregrine kept me. A suggestion, my dear. I’ll
lay a tenner you’ll like it,” said John, trying to be
cheery and kissing everyone.
“Pray where would I come by tenners . . . nor
you neither?” retorted Caroline. Since John insisted
that they should live in the bush he need never think
she liked it. “I suppose you didn’t bring me a maid?
Even the dullest immigrant knows better than to bury
herself in the bush, and I must say I never
expected”
“I have a proposition from Peregrine for you,
my dear.”
“What does he expect to make out of it?” de-
manded Caroline, stooping over the big colonial fire-
place where two camp-ovens and a black kettle hung
on hooks. She handled the ovens with gloves . . .
which she didn’t use in conversation, thought John,
explaining that now labor was so cheap Peregrine was
building a house on his second section in Official
Bay . . . “He may sell it later, but in the meantime he
offers it to you and the girls. I shall stay at the
farm.”
“Wants an unpaid caretaker, does he? I won’t
go without a servant.” But Caroline’s heart was
leaping. Once she got into that house it would take
more than Peregrine to get her out. “When will it
be ready?” she asked.
i.
a land ruled crazily by an experimental
5 Colonial Office ; by the military whose only
function seemed to be to destroy ; by a Gov-
| ernor who coddled the Maoris (Governor
js % Grey’s native schools and hostels, forsooth!)
Ectwll and by newspapers which, without the curb
of libel laws and with invective an honored
exercise, were positively dangerous—in this land sober
gentlemen endeavoring to provide some kind of
stability for their increasing families so definitely
ceased to be sober that dinner-parties became impos-
sible for ladies’ ears.
As for the dark little Mechanics’ Institute in
Auckland’s Chancery-lane (called The Dustbin by
the “Chronicle”), so many chairs were broken at the
nightly meetings that it was quite unsafe to stand on
one, and Major Henry did it at his peril when he rose
to shout that somebody ought to be hanged. “Why
should we all go bankrupt in the effort to please
everybody?” he demanded.
Gentlemen demurred strenuously at this, explain-
ing that their last desire was to please everybody . . .
certainly not to please Grey, whose continued refusal
to execute England’s Imperial seal and charter for
self-government, granted more than a year ago, had
the country fiercely by the ears. The Settlers’ Con-
stitutional Association should do something. Why
didn’t it, they demanded, forgetting that they were
part of it themselves. Very bewildered were the
gentlemen who had been trained in English public
schools, where learning how to be settlers had not
been on the curriculum.
Jermyn gave them electric shocks Twice weekly
in the “Chronicle,” but it was Peregrine’s business to
apply soporifics, and now he got up to do it.
“Gentlemen, we must have a little patience”
“Patience, sir! With that bloody Grey treating
us like rebellious infants wanting spanking?” pro-
tested old Barnes, his eyes popping out of his crim-
son face.
“We really must consider the obligations, sir,”
said Peregrine, always disliking interruptions. “The
charter gives voting powers to all who can read and
write, and therefore disfranchises the bulk of the
(Continued on page 50.)


POMR
Lf 1
and
STILL
M
PQ3
/ I
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCallum, Ltd., 96 Murray Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 58-62 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 156 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company, 15 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Elphinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: W. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 897 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON. -
xr
The Canadian
Australasian route to
Europe blends delight-
fully the vibrant,
youthful vitality of
Canada and the lan-
guid, unspoiled charm
of the South Sea
Islands.
Monthly sailings
via New Zealand,
Fiji, Hawaii and
Canada.
For full information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.),
247 George Street, Sydney. Tel.: 87671.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
led to their development. If Sinclair is to be believed,
forming a trade union in America —or in Dearborn in
particular-—is different from the same thing in Aus-
tralia. The early members came and went from meet-
ings masked, and sat in darkness. The leaders lived
in fear of basher gangs. On this note the book ends.
In The Flivver King two things are implicit. One
is that to see captains of industry as “malefactors of
great wealth”—Theodore Roosevelt’s phrase—is to
take a distorted view. They are merely the crest of
the' great modern wave of industrial activity. The
second thing is the query, “What happens next?”
Sinclair describes a meeting between Henry Ford and
Gillette, the razor-blade manufacturer, in California,
at the home of an author. Gillette is for increased
co-operation, an end to the wastefulness and cruelty of
competitive effort and a nation-wide co-ordination of
production and consumption. Ford hasn’t moved in
his ideas since the day he started to make cars. He
is still the super-individualist. Conversation between
Ford and Gillette “was like the meeting of two billiard
balls ; there would be a sharp click, and they would
fly apart, having taken no particle of substance, shape
or color from each other.”
The Flivver King is bright, brisk reading. Sin-
clair’s socialist bias has to be remembered.
A "Goldfish" Walks Out.
The theme of The Past Must Alter, by A. J.
Guerard (Longmans), is a triangle even more
classic than the “eternal” one. This time it
is father, mother and son. The father, Fritz,
was a journalist by trade and a gambler by
habit; the mother, Diane, a highly emotional woman,
wanted to pretend that he was her little boy. Their
son Jim was an abnormally sensitive child of ten.
Worn out by editing a paper all day and gambling
all night, Fritz had a nervous breakdown, and Diane
bore him away to California for a complete rest.
For a while they were happy until the constant
care and solicitude began to irritate Fritz. “For he
had come to feel like a prize goldfish swimming con-
stantly before their wondering eyes.”
In order to get back to his old pursuits Fritz told
Diane that he had lost all his money gambling, but
she triumphantly produced a hoard that she had
accumulated by falsifying the domestic bills. This
was the last straw. Fritz struck her and walked out
in the classic manner. The war had begun, and he
went to Europe as a war correspondent.
Diane and Jim went home to her mother’s. Her
misery and boredom grew in volume, and at last she
set off with Jim for Paris to find Fritz. There, in
the, last days of the war, she met a helpless American
with a dying wife and two little girls. He was willing
to become her little boy and like it.
• The story is garnished with lively descriptions
of Monterey, Paris in war-time and Armistice Day.
Wild West Romance.
With admirable self-restraint Conrad Richter has
told a big story in a small space. The Sea of Grass'
(Constable), which appears to be a first novel, is set
in New Mexico fifty years ago when the last of the
pioneers were still alive and ready to fight the smaller
men who came after.
It is a Wild West romance, complete with guns
for all and a handsome young district attorney from
the East who has set his heart on bringing law
and justice to the West but the approach is different.
Richter is a disciple, perhaps unconsciously, of Willa
Gather. He writes delicately of rough situations,
freshly of hackneyed material, and manages to steep
his scene in a rarefied romantic light. The Sea of Grass
invites comparison with Willa Cather’s A Lost Lady.
It is written as the reminiscences of an old man
looking back on his youth. The first person is only
a minor character in the story, but this device enables
the author to charge his rough narrative with a trist-
ful poetic glamor that is not native to it but which
seems quite natural in retrospect.
The book has a double plot. The first deals with
the struggle between Colonel Brewton, the most
powerful rancher in New Mexico —the uncrowned king
of Salt Fork runs his cattle over a vast prairie
to which he has no legal claim—and the “nesters,”
or small settlers who come to pick the eyes out of
his run. The second is the story of the Colonel’s
marriage to Lutie Cameron.
The second is told in detail with delicate emphasis.
It holds the foreground. The characters, seen through
the eyes of an impressionable boy, are more than life-
size. The Colonel is like “some dark shaggy Jove”
or a “rude Czar” with “pitchfork glance” ; he is a
superman, the epitome of manly vigor and chivalry.
When the wife plans to run away with the district
attorney, her husband’s enemy, Colonel Brewton waits
for him on the railway station with a shotgun. The
whole population of Salt Fork holds its breath, but
the attorney turns tail and leaves Lutie to go away
alone. Brewton could never forgive him for letting
his wife down ! Lutie’s femininity is also exagerated.
She is gay, sweet and guileless. The Sea of Grass is
successful within its own covers. It is not a book to
be measured against reality.
The Neighbors' Lives.
Most of the seventeen stories in William
Saroyan’s Little Children (Faber) are concerned with
children or adolescents, but the book owes nothing
to sentimentality. These are not so much studies of
childhood as of the child in man, and for all their
simplicity they are trenchant enough.
They are about such things as a child’s first day
at school and the change it brought about in his
whole outlook ; a fight between two lift attendants
arising out of professional pride on a hot day ; a boy
who saved his Sunday-school collection money to
buy a Zeppelin costing one dollar, and then found he
couldn’t ride in it; a pair of corduroy pants that were
all wrong ; the two brightest boys in the school who
found the world outside a different matter; an old
man determined to run an all-night hamburger stand
in a provincial town that went to bed at ten o’clock ;
an Armenian peasant caught in the whirl of Ameri-
can life.
The interest is the kind people get leaning out of
a window to see what the next-door man is doing in
his garden. Here life is caught in the act. Saroyan
is an artist, and in a very small space, with the
simplest of materials, with few words and those of
the plainest, he can convey a great deal of human
nature. Nearly all the stories are in the first person,
and you get the impression that they are experiences
taken from the author’s own youth when—and if—
he was an immigrant boy selling newspapers in Cali-
fornia.
Saroyan’s style is colloquial. The sentences are
short and stabbing, and carry no adjectives. There can
be scarcely a dozen adjectives in the book. But under
this flat, almost “dumb” style he houses a fierce flame.
In two stories in particular, “Laughing Sam” and
“The Crusader,” the fire breaks out. The first is the
story of a boy. “He was one of those extremely sensi-
tive boys who, being afraid of everything in the world,
try to laugh at everything and get into all kinds of
trouble.” From the time he began, at 12, to sell news-
papers until he was crushed by an elevator his life was
all a tragic and a comic mistake. There is something
terrific about that story.
“The Crusader” the name of a gambling
machine has something the same quality. A man
returns to his home town for a holiday and spends
his time drinking and gambling. He is exalted and
desperate. That is all. The other stories lack the
peculiar fire of these two, but they are shrewd,
humorous and natural.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction ... ■.
Sailor’s Women: W. Townend (Chapman an
Hall). Ship’s captain falls in love with young daugm
of a drunken shipmate. Storms at sea, conflict a
A good salty varn. , .... v.j
Night in the City: Gerald Kersh (Miehael
Joseph). London underworld. Tense in places,
in others, and superficial on the whole.
Riverboat Gambler: Tom Roan (Nicholson and
Watson). Love and adventure on a Mississippi steam-
boat towards the end of the American Civil Wai.
Discord and Harmony : Cosmo Hamilton (Heine-
mann). A romance “in which is dramatised something
of the characters, the work and the quarrels of Gilbeit
and Sullivan.” A competent lightweight job.
Old China: George G. Foster (Nicholson and
Watson). English burlesque of film production gar-
nished with a love interest. The producer acciden-
tally shooting the star full of tin tacks is a high spot.
Penguin Library » . .
If ever there was an answer to the prayer of
readers who have to dwell in camps of all sorts
construction, timber-getting, military and what not—
in the bush, on boats and in other places where books
can’t be well looked after, it’s surely these Penguin
paper-back prints of good work of all sorts, which
sell in Australia usually at about 9d. each.
Recent additions to these paperbacks include a
Shakspeare in separate-play vols., those to hand Much
Ado About Nothing, Othello and Anthony and Cleo-
patra. The text is a new one specially prepared for
the Penguin edition from the original Quartos and
Folio by G. B. Harrison. Print is large and clear,
and each vol. includes introduction, notes and glos-
sary. This edition makes Shakspeare available in
handy little readable books, as cheaply as it could
possibly be done. Excellent productions.
Other recent inclusions: —Fiction: Self, Beverley
Nichols; Vile Bodies, Evelyn Waugh ; Carl and Anna,
Leonhard Frank; Mr. Perrin and Mr. Traill, Hugh
Walpole ; Seven Red Sundays, Ramon J. Sender ; Cold
Comfort Farm, Stella Gibbons; Ten Minute Alibi,
Anthony Armstrong (mystery). General: An Outline
of the Universe, J. G. Crowther (two vols., illus-
trated) ; Civilisation, Clive Bell; Ur of the Chaldees :
Seven Years of Excavation, Sir Leonard Woolley ;
Only Yesterday : Informal History of the 1920’s in
America, F. L. Allen (two vols., illustrated); Psycho-
pathology of Everyday Life, Sigmund Freud ; Limi-
tations of Science, J. W. N. Sullivan ; Religion and
the Rise of Capitalism, R. H. Tawney ; A History of
the English People in 1815, Elie Halevy. Travel and
Adventure; Flying Dutchman, Anthony Fokker;
Watkins’ Last Expedition, F. Spencer Chapman
(Arctic).
Penguin Parade is a quarterly issue of hitherto
unpublished stories, verses and the like by known or
unknown writers.
General . . .
Wild Nature in Australia: Charles Barrett,
C.M.Z.S. (Robertson and Mullens, Ltd., Melbourne ;
2s. 6d.). Nature writer for Melbourne “Herald” for
many years, Charles Barrett has compiled a well-
produced little book; little that is new in either
pictures or print, but youngsters overseas, oF here,
should like it.
Martin Pippin in the Daisy Field: Eleanor Far-
jeon (Michael Joseph ; Robertson and Mullens). Fairy
tales redolent of Sussex fields, and following up the
author’s earlier success, Martin Pippin in the Apple
Orchard. Illustrated with first-class pen-and-ink
drawings.
The Salvation of Modern Man: W. G. Peck
(Centenary Press), attacks the problem of bringing
religion into line with modern social needs and aspira-
tions, but brings no fresh light to bear on it and
certainly no solution.


NEW
e
QUALITY
5.38/16J.
THEBE IS A NEW SPIRIT IN THE SUPER SHELL PUMPS
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated in Great Britain)


ROYAL
PURPLE-
PARA
/
sc Sc
&
M
W &
t ' i N ' s/
mm
' *-
SSlli*ll|i||(*Bfi
.»,vXmvv«.»*»* >V Vs -•>•*.
T*
m
m
■
HI
'
. rm-
mm
I
m
,r
f,v . j
s
Mnl
MhM
'SP ' >
■
HNS
Swllp
■
■
■
nK
. mm
t&d
M '■; v : c's;.;
: i
wan
-
yt«c;
siHSa^
mm
• :
■
;>?W
" '• ■-
■
m
m m
i :
■
:■' ■ i
MS i
BSB
■
Mi
Mi
1 ■ a
From This Small Beginning in 1851 Grew Seppeltsfield of To-day.
,/JWcfd ‘Wwe e?fto/ie meiimmedSmullmiq/uet


THE NEUTRAL.
“On the subjects of Abyssinia and Spain, Mr. Jordan (Maoriland) supported M. Litvinov and vigorously opposed Lord Halifax....‘Full neutrality’ has been
promised to Switzerland to induce it to remain in the League—the Swiss are afraid Litvinov and co. will drag them into war.”
“You go and tell her, Kiwi, that everything in my beargarden’s lovely.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Svdney; Box
252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New, Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
PROSPERITY AT CANBERRA.
There is great joy in Canberra this week, for the
shorn lambs of the Parliamentary flock are back on
a full ration, with an extra lot of lucerne for the Prime
Minister.
When the depression forced economies a special
income tax was put on all Commonwealth salaries
and allowances exceeding £725 a year. It meant £lOO
off the Parliamentary salary, Ministers of State
being set back 15 per cent.
Then came the Financial Emergency Acts of
1931, as part of the Premiers’ plan. Ministers of
State lost 25 per cent, and ordinary members 20 p.c.,
their emoluments being brought down to £BOO. The
1932 Budget whittled another £5O off. Apart from
this, members received nothing except free travel for
themselves and sometimes a dependant or two, occa-
sional free trips to New Guinea, free stamps, free
club and library privileges and free offices in all
capitals.
In 1933 somebody suggested that the depression
was coming to an end, and members were almost
knocked down in the midnight scramble to raise their
£750 to £825. Ministers did not share to the same
extent, but Ministers and members alike were pro-
vided for in subsequent “restorations,” which brought
the member’s salary up to £950.
Now, with some industries booming as in 1920
(the borrowing industry included, though not the
pastoral industry), the member’s salary is back to the
£lOOO fixed in that boom year, and the Prime Min-
ister’s “allowance” has been raised to “approximately
£4000.” The pool for Ministers’ “allowances” has
been increased from £15,678 to £16,950 (how they
whack it up is supposed to be their own affair); salaries
of Speaker and President go up from £1942 to £2300;
and those of Chairmen of Committees from £1387 to
£l7OO.
A Minister will now get £l9OO a year. If he is really
capable he deserves that and more, and a first-class
Prime Minister would be cheap at £4OOO a year. And
if the national Parliament and Government took over
at least some of the functions of the prodigal and
superfluous State Governments, making reduction of
State members a condition, the public would not
begrudge them some -of the money that would be
thereby saved. But what have they done to earn
the amounts they have voted themselves? The Prime
Minister has answered the question in part.
The British Parliament is not above sitting on
Monday and holding important debates that day.
Our legislators hurry to Canberra on Tuesday
morning and hurry out of it on Friday. An inspec-
tion of the region round Parliament House on a
Saturday morning will disclose not a soul in sight,
save an anxious-looking guide waiting for tourists,
and a clerk or two. The place is almost deserted.
And since the move was made from Melbourne
sessions have grown shorter. The Prime Minister has
given the number of sitting-days for six years:
. Senate. House.
1932 53 73
1933 49 67
1934 22 35
1935 37 55
1936 49 71
1937 .. .. 27 29
This scurvy allotment of time given to the affairs
of the nation in momentous years could be
justified only if members on the whole were
regular in their attendance, and if measures
were thoroughly debated. Neither is true. The
words “quorum formed,” indicating that a debate has
been interrupted because less than a third of the
members are present, occur more and more frequently
in “Hansard.” Measures pile up till the last week
of a session ; then they may be passed at the rate
of a dozen a day, with only the pretence of a debate.
Sometimes even the pretence is discarded. The crazy
trade-diversion “policy” was sprung on the country
while members were scattering, though some of the
Government’s own supporters would have objected
to it had they been allowed to speak.
“Even if all the provisions of this bill become
law,” said the Treasurer, introducing the enactment
which gives all hands more (it was, of course, passed
like lightning), “the total emoluments of Ministers will
still be appreciably below the salaries of Ministers in
Canada and in South Africa.” Mr. Casey did not men-
tion that Canadian and South African Ministers have
to discharge many more duties than his Administration
attends to in its fashion, since, for purposes of local
self-government, their Dominions are divided, not into
quasi-so\ereign States with costly imitations of the
British Court and Parliament, but into provinces. And
the provinces have mere Administrators or Lieutenant-
Governors, modestly paid and lodged, and compara-
tively small bodies of representatives whose salaries
and perquisites any Australian State member would
scorn.
South Africa pays its Prime Minister £3500 a
year, and other Ministers £2500 apiece. But the
Prime Minister looks after a department (External
Affairs), whereas Mr. Lyons is just P.M. And, includ-
ing two gentlemen without portfolios, there are only
13 Ministers in the Union, which, if natives are
included (and there is a Minister of Native Affairs),
has 3,000,000 more people than the Commonwealth.
Australia has 73 Ministers, each with a personal staff.
The Afrikander Minister of Defence is Minister of
Railways and Harbors as well. Since national service
is in force —young men are required to join the Coast
Garrison Force, the Active Citizen Force or the Royal
Naval Reserve Volunteer Reserve, or, if not entered
for peace training, a rifle association this Min-
ister has to arm and train quite as many men as
our Mr. Thorby. Yet our Mr. Thorby, it is alleged, is so
overburdened that he must have an assistant Minister.
The local South African assemblies are called
provincial councils. They have 168 members alto-
gether, and all their “ordinances” (they don’t pass
Acts) are “subject to the veto of the Governor-General-
in-Council.” The Administrators are appointed by the
Governor-General-in-Council. So are the Canadian
Lieutenant-Governors.
Canada has 533 local members, and Australia
505 ; but the Canadian population is the greater by
4,000,000. Moreover, 114 of the 533 local members
hang out in Quebec, the only province with two
Houses, and they draw only 2250 dollars per session.
N. S. Wales Assemblymen get £670 per annum, and
are demanding £875. Even the Westralian Assembly-
men and Councillors (there are 80) have awarded them-
selves £6OO per annum, and eight of them are Min-
isters who share another £B2OO per annum.
Canada restricts the powers of its provincial Legis-
latures, even in respect of “works.” If Mr. Stevens were
Premier of Quebec, which has about 500,000 more
people than N. S. Wales, he could not start “works”
or pass valid laws relating to them —loan laws, for
instance —if the Dominion Parliament declared that
such “works” were matters for the nation. Nor could he
enforce any provincial law that might “interfere with
the action and policy of the central Administration.”
There are no such limits to his powers in N. S. Wales ;
though there should be. Had such restrictions been
imposed in 1901 it would not now stand on record
that on June 30, 1936, the N. S. Wales public debt
amounted to 346,576,200 pounds, whereas the public
debt of Quebec was 164,747,600 dollars.
When claiming that “the total emoluments of
Ministers will still be appreciably below the salaries
of Ministers in Canada,” Mr. Casey was careful not
to mention members. Members of the Parliament
at Ottawa receive “an allowance of 4000 dollars for
the session, subject to deductions for non-attendance,”
and to an economy cut of 5 per cent. The Prime
Minister gets 15,000 dollars a year, plus the 4000
dollars sessional allowance; his colleagues with port-
folios (there are 14) draw 10,000 dollars and 4000
dollars for the session—all less 5 per cent. There
is rarely more than one session in a year.
Australia wouldn’t mind paying the gentlemen at
Canberra on the Canadian or South African scale if
their duties were enlarged to correspond with those
of their Canadian and South African congeners —the
latter for preference —and if they did an equivalent
amount of work.
Gas.
A nation which has never had war at its front door,
Australia finds it difficult to realise that there are
people capable of inflicting on Australians the horrors
which Europeans and Asiatics have suffered.
The council of the Victorian Pharmaceutical
Society does not share the easygoing scepticism of many
of its countrymen. Equipped with knowledge of
developments in chemical warfare, it has so little
faith in the goodwill of some of its fellowmen that it
has sponsored a series of lectures on anti-gas training
which have now been published- in book form.
The lecturer was Alan Brooksbank. He served
in an anti-gas squad on the Western Front, and he
has resigned his position as Divisional Gas Officer in
the A.M.F. in />rder to be able to criticise the Can-
berra Gas Policy.
The use of gas as a weapon is forbidden by a
Geneva Protocol; but that means nothing. Gas has
been little used in current wars ; but that is largely
because the facilities for using it have been limited:
moreover, the combatants have been more or less
dependent on world opinion for their ability to carry
on. Any war in which Australia might
would be a world war in which opinion
no check. *•
According to the president of the German A r
Defence League, Germany has 5,000,000 traine
gas workers. Berlin is the scene °fP erlo ’. ..
rehearsals during which masked children ,
cellars and asbestos-garbed “decontaminator sq ,
who look like something out of the lower dep h.
hell, are at work in every main street. To 10 g _
for this ghastly make-believe also. T °kio has a pop
lation of 6,000,000; Berlin, one of 4,250,000.
In the Scandinavian countries anti-gas T al ?\ ,n ® 1S
compulsory in schools. Britain has its Air Rai ie
cautions Act, and the Government has announced
that free masks and equipment for the and e
local authorities alone will cost £20,000,000.
children are to be fitted with masks which, in any
emergency that may arise, they will carry to and
from school.
In the last war the modern heavy aeroplane, as
we know it, had not arrived and the gas bomb was
comparatively primitive. Even so, gas showed on the
battlefields what it was able to do, though some or
the vehicles then used, such as chlorine, advertised
themselves too openly by sight or smell. British gas
casualties; apart from delayed-action cases in which
victims were not maimed till months after infection,
reached 10,000 a month. The American Expedi-
tionary Force, which fought in one campaign, had
70,000 altogether.
Nowadays there are vomit gases, tear gases, lung
gases, arsenic and cyanide gases and dusts; and ways
of s paying have been improved. With arsenic gases
the spray does not need to be very heavy. Some
arsenical sprays, Mr. Brooksbank says, are capable
of injuring or irritating when in the air in the propor-
tion of 1 to 25,000,000.
There is phosgene, which is invisible and smells
like damp straw or hay. It is breathed painlessly into
the lungs. There, still painlessly, it begins to extract
water from the blood. The lungs become full of
water. The victim dies.
There is mustard gas, too-familiar to Diggers. It
attacks the eyes, producing agonising pain and blind-
ness ; also blisters like serious sunburn which turn to
open sores. Fired into the street, it settles as a solid
on the tar. Pick up a fraction of an ounce on the
sole of a shoe and walk into a room; the heat of the
room turns the horror into a deadly gas again.
Lewisite is for baby murderers. It smells like
geraniums and “is more speedy in raising blisters than
mustard, and the blisters are likely to be more
dangerous.”
Australia is open to all the gases, provided the
enemy which chooses to employ them has an air force
which can reach this continent and run the gauntlet of
the R.A.A.F. Anti-gas defence is, therefore, necessary.
Mr. Brooksbank outlines the development of anti-gas
policy.
On June 5, 1935, Mr. Parkhill, then Minister of
Defence, said that State Premiers had been asked
to arrange conferences between State and Common-
wealth officials for the preparation of a scheme to
protect the capitals and Newcastle against gas attacks.
A dead silence of 11 months followed.
On May 13, 1936, the Minister announced that
all the State Governments had agreed to co-operate.
Gas masks would be supplied by the Commonwealth,
but distributed under State control, through fire
brigades, ambulances and the like. The official report
of the Adelaide Ministerial conference held in August,
1936, confirmed this. But in May, 1937, it was an-
nounced that
Disagreement between the Commonwealth and some.
States is delaying the establishment of the skeleton
organisation proposed to be established in Australia.
Another year passes. Then Senator Foil, the
Repatriation Minister, explains to Parliament that
there are 343 key-personnel anti-gas instructors in
N. S. Wales and that there will shortly be 6000
N.S.W. civilians trained in anti-gas duties —almost
enough for a city with one-sixth of Sydney’s popula-
tion. In Victoria there are 299 key-personnel in-
structors and 2994 civilians who have received anti-gas
training; and the Munitions Supply Board and
approved private firms are manufacturing respirators
—Senator Foil again. Neither the president of the
Victorian Pharmaceutical Society nor Mr. Brooksbank
seems to have been aware of these developments when
they put forth their book five or six weeks ago.
Mr. Brooksbank does say that he made careful
inquiries about gas protection in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. He came up against a decree to the effect that
no respirators might be made except in accordance
with a Commonwealth specification ; also that respira-
tors for State instructors must be all the same size, so
that persons who wished to use them were required to
have countenances of uniform dimensions. Moreover,
respirators were packed into haversacks not meant for
them. And gas-proof suits issued to firemen, who
would form decontamination squads, and thus do the
most dangerous work, in case of raids, had been
fitted with air vents under the armpits—“the most
critical place for firemen” doing such work.
It is the same old story of bureaucratic muddle.
Defence against gas attacks affects every civilian and
would probably be better under civilian control. But
even that transfer would not allay the uneasiness
about the general operation of the defence policy.
There seem to be as many vents in that as there are
in the gas-squad suits.
E. V.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"The League Remained Impotent."
These words —recurring like a refrain in any historical
survey of League of Nations activities—should now
finally be engraved across the face of that monument
to Futility the League’s £2,000,000 palace at Geneva.
Few gatherings in history so combine the pathetic
and the futile as did last week’s meeting there. Futile,
lace-saving and snuffling in itself; pathetic in the
appearance of Haile Silassie, with a record behind him
tinctured with a certain sadness and a certain shabbi-
ness : Gilbertian in the bombast of the Soviet’s repre-
sentative, speaking up for “justice” and “principles” ;
comic in the occurrence of Maoriland’s Mr. Jordan
with a recipe for wrecking an Empire portion of which
he “represents” ; the whole concern a sham.
Nobody ever had any doubt about what would
happen at this sorry gathering. Few important
speeches make such miserable reading as that which
Lord Halifax had the unenviable job of delivering:—•
The British Government does not suggest that any
member of the League should condone the action
whereby Italy acquired her present position in Abyssinia.
Those seeking to establish a better world on the basis
of League principles are rightly reluctant to countenance
the action whereby the principles of the Covenant were
infringed. Nevertheless
It boils down to this. The League is down and
out, a complete failure —saddening, as most failures
are, but none the less a failure.
Only the day before yesterday we were told that
if the League fell civilisation would topple with it.
We were invited, incited and very near stampeded
into war to uphold it; it was held to be the very
cornerstone of British foreign policy.
Supporters like the bemused Mr. Jordan still
accept it in this light. To them it has become a faith,
a religion. Judged by their utterances, some of these
would regard it much more worth making a war over
than going into a war to defend their own countries.
Their numbers are nothing like the clamorous
tribe they were less than two years back, when repre-
sentatives of the “League secretariat” toured these
parts hawking their wordy wares around the news-
paper offices, broadcasting stations and tea-parties.
There are still enough of them in the pretentious
League of Nations Unions to make some lip-service
to Geneva politically payable, though not so much
in Australia as in Britain. Even these should be
further diminished by the latest Genevan proceedings,
including the prelude of the Swiss seeking to leave the
League to which they give palace-room, because they
fear it may drag them into war.
When “sanctions” were enforced against the
country whose war of conquest is now being rather
uncomfortably swallowed in the urgent interest of
world peace, Switzerland insisted on various excep-
tions to the measures adopted. Twenty-one other
member nations insisted on exceptions. Four member
nations refused outright to impose “sanctions.” And
the League as a whole remained impotent to do any-
thing about an oil boycott. Further, there were leak-
ages through the very nations which were supposed
to be imposing “sanctions.”
With such a record—not exceptional; in regard
to Peru and Bolivia, Japan and China, the League was
even more impotent—it is only right and proper that
the latest proceedings should amount only to finding
a formula in which to wrap up a futility.
A Case for RecalL
Maoriland will have to do something about its Mr.
Jordan. Diehard champion of the now completely
discredited League of Nations, upholder still of that
hopeless experiment “collective security,” he has com-
mitted himself so far that he cannot go back on his
declarations, and compromised his country in the
process.
Even at this date Mr. Jordan is all for the British
Empire pursuing a foreign policy that would lead
inescapably to another world war. He is one of the
diminishing few who refuse to be influenced by the
most stubborn facts. His preference is for high-
sounding formulas, to be maintained whatever the
realities may be.
Thus in the world’s most public place he declaims
such absurd rubbish as that “there is no material
fault with the Covenant as it stands, the fault lying
with the failure to apply it.” What earthly use, then,
is it, when the “failure to apply it” remains certain?
There never has been “collective security,” and
until the world achieves a great change of heart there
never can be. A trouble with the League all along
has been that it could only have succeeded as a League
of All Great Nations, and it never has been anything
like that. To-day, with more great nations out of it
than in it —to say nothing of the unnatural relation-
ships of those that are in it —it is the sorriest of farces.
Because he has simply opened his mouth wider
than any statesman would have done, Mr. Jordan has
to go on declaiming that this farce is something worth
endangering the Empire to uphold! It makes Mr.
Jordan look very foolish, but that is unimportant. It
also makes Maoriland look foolish, and that should
be important to Maoriland.
Banned at Last.
Having been assured by the two professors and the
Commonwealth Librarian who constitute the Litera-
ture Censorship Board that the crime-and-sex maga-
zines which have been dumped into Australia are as
objectionable as everyone knew they were, Cabinet
has at last decided to ban them.
Acting-Minister Perkins, dropping his notion
that special legislation was necessary, announced that
regulations would be gazetted to prohibit the entry
of over 20. Customs officers will do the prohibiting,
and a fine of up to £lOO is provided for dodgers.
Questioned about local publications which imi-
tate the Yankee filth, Mr. Perkins loaded the respon-
sibility for dealing with them on to the States. Mr.
Gollan has given an assurance that N. S. Wales will
take what action may be necessary.
Though the regulations don’t make a complete
job of things, they should considerably improve the
position. Mr. Perkins has said sensibly that repu-
table publications will not be interfered with ; the
thriller and even the penny dreadful are safe. The
Customs, on the watch for the bestial type of maga-
zine, have the success or failure of the regulations in
their hands. If they had interpreted their job intelli-
gently in the past, they could have stopped a fair pro-
portion of the offal on the ground of obscenity;
doubt as to what was legal obscenity may have hin-
dered them. The banning of definite magazines gets
over that difficulty, but they will still have to watch
for new publications of the same type, or for the old
offenders under new names.
Out of His Element.
W. H. Donald. General Chiang Kai-shek’s Australian-
's^ 11 adviser, is no doubt a competent authority on
Chinese politics, but a published letter to a relative in
Sydney shows that he is no authority on warfare.
He reports that the Japanese lines are being con-
tinually harassed by Chinese guerrillas ; and no doubt
they are. And when an invader’s lines of communica-
tion are of necessity lengthy and lightly held flying
columns employing hit-and-run tactics will always
cause him trouble. The Boers demonstrated that.
But the Boer, unlike the Chinese, is a good natural
fighter; also the terrain was ideally suited to guerrilla
fighting. And yet this fighting, as the event proved,
could not possibly force a decision: it was admirable
but hopeless.
Mr. Donald claims for his proteges that they
“stood the greatest concentration of bombing and
blasting for three full months that any army has ever
been asked to stand.” This will merely raise a horse-
laugh from any Digger who was ever mixed up in a
real barrage—as, for instance, at Pozieres in 1916 —
or from any German who faced the concentration of
British artillery at Passchendaele. There over 800
guns, ranging from 18-pounders to 12-inch naval guns,
were drawn up on a front of a mile. Batteries were
wheel to wheel for almost as far as the eye could see.
It is, however, in his almost lyrical praise of the
effectiveness of the Chinese sword against the rifle—
when the Japanese saw the mighty swords glinting
in the they saw no way to parry them with
a rifle —that Chiang Kai-shek’s adviser approaches
the ludicrous. Even the bloodcurdling yells which
doubtless accompany these onslaughts with the
“mighty swords” would scarcely be likely to strike
terror into the hearts of entrenched troops waiting
with fingers on the triggers of fully-loaded rifles ; even
in hand-to-hand fighting the rifle and bayonet would
prove less unwieldy. Any Digger would swap a truck-
load of mighty swords for a couple of machine-guns.
All these stories of Chinese “victories” should
be taken with a huge helping of salt.
All-Wool Australians.
J. P. C. McDonald, from Woodburn, Richmond
River (N.S.W.):
I have been instructed to write to you on behalf of a
Jocal committee of sportsmen who are trying to raise funds
enough to send Evans Paddon, tire Australian sculling cham-
pion, to Canada to race Bobby Pearce for the world’s title.
Sculling authorities agree that Paddon is a worthy
contender. Some go so far as to say that he is destined
to be as great a sculler as the world has had.
But a journey to Canada is much more expensive than it
was in the days of Jake Gaudaur.
About £1250 is needed. To date we have secured promises
of £670. And George Towns has donated one of two riggers
that the voyagers will have to take.
. Evans and his father Jim Paddon —himself world champion
in his day—have contributed £2OO. The father will act as
trainer and manager free of cost to my committee. A
promising young Sydney sculler, George Cook, will go as
pacemaker. They will have to leave Sydney for Toronto
early in June, for Pearce wishes to stage the event at the
Toronto Exhibition.
My committee feels certain that if sufficient support
from the sport-loving public is forthcoming no finer team
of Australian sportsmen will have ever visited another country
in quest of the highest honors in sculling.
The Bulletin is forwarding a cheque for £5.
While never keen on overseas jaunts for politicians
and officials, it is all for helping representative athletes
to try conclusions with the champions of other coun-
tries. Not because they “advertise Australia” in the
sordid sense in which that expression is generally
employed— not because their skill may result in the
selling of more oranges and raisins, but because, win
or lose, they make friends for the country by their
fine qualities of manhood. This is true whether they
are cricketers or footballers, oarsmen or runners,
golfers or tennis-players, and whether they are ama-
teurs or professionals.
Sculling is a splendid sport, and it attracts a
splendid type of fellow. Leaving their prowess out of
the argument, any country would be proud to own
men like Beach, Kemp, Trickett, Searle, Stanbury,
Towns, Felton, the three Pearces and the two Paddons.
Getting Volunteers.
Party politicians and Trades Hall spouters who have
persuaded themselves that Australians would object
to any form of national training for defence should
visit the nearest R.A.A.F. or naval recruiting office
after the next calls for additional personnel. They
will find Miere many young Australians with different
ideas.
1 he major difficulty experienced by naval recruit-
ing officers is keeping to their respective quotas. With
only 80 to 90 vacancies to be filled monthly from the
whole Commonwealth, each recruiting centre has a
long waiting list.
April advertisements brought the authorities in
touch with 2000 young Victorians and New South
Welshmen who wanted to become R.A.A.F. pilots.
Insufficient education and the 18-22 age specification
ruled out about 1500 ; the stiff medical examination
and penetrating personal-interview system are
reducing the number of those still in the running.
Similar advertisements for R.A.A.F. tradesmen
between 18 and 35 netted about 5000 applications
from Victoria alone.
The truth is that Young Australia is mad about
aviation, and it is a madness which could be turned
to better account. There would be a rush to enlist
in the infantry if it were given out that, at selected
periods, training camps would be held at some inland
place in each State and volunteers would, as far as
possible, be transported in troop-carrying ’planes.
And why not? Why shouldn’t our army have troop-
carrying ’planes? Why shouldn’t our Percivals be
brought home to build them?
Outposts, Modern Style.
Months before Pan-American Airways started its
commercial run from San Francisco to Auckland,
cutters were landing men and equipment on unin-
habited islets along the Pacific route. Australia’s Civil
Aviation Department is doing the same work round
the Darwin-Brisbane coastline in preparation for the
Empire flying-boat service.
Groote Eylandt and Karumba, on the west and
east sides of the Gulf of Carpentaria, will be the
most isolated flying-boat bases.
Virtual settlements have to be built. Besides
moorings, jetties and slipways, accommodation-houses
must be erected and power plants installed for radio
operation, lighting, heating and refrigeration. Per-
sonnel will include a general control officer in charge
of each base, a couple of coxswains for the launches,
a station engineer, a boathand and a cook. Radio and
weather men will add to base populations, and fuel
company representatives will be dropping in from time
to time.
Salaries range from £460 down to £l9B. with small
living-expense deductions. All hands at Groote
Eylandt and Karumba will live in single men’s
barracks.
These new jobs for Australians should be busy
and interesting ones, and not half as lonely as those
or some out-of-way station and lighthouse families,
or of the two weather observers on Willis Island. The
advance party for Groote Eylandt is already on its
way. Scores of other applicants are waiting to hear
landed a three-year job at one or other
ot the northern bases or at Townsville, Gladstone,
Brisbane or Sydney.
Flash N.G. Natives.
“Maskee” his case:
In “Flogging No Remedy” (B. 28/4/’3Bl there are olarmo
fnf,t en r t^ For e i amp ,! e > “ The y [*•«•. indented bush
a nd the local Brown Brother are given more money than they
ever had in their lives before, enough to buy whisky and
sometimes even rattletrap cars.” y n sKy ana
nanppH^ 6 native labor is fully controlled by an ordi-
nance, which also regulates wages. 3
irruiii 16 bulk ot , the .,.native labor is recruited from the con-
trolled areas, and utilised for domestic service and for work
on wharves, mines and plantations. The minimum wage is
ss. a month ; this is usually the rate paid to boys of 13 to 15
a i? 6 ® 105 USUall y at 6s> a m ° nth ’ and °ver
hal? n he receive 15s. to £1 a month-
nan then, the balance when his contract expires. The balance
is usually mortgaged, or it may be stolen by "friends.”
or cars 0356 SUm WI not 8 ° far towards buying whisky
■ l } I s the , labor-type native that is making money; it
is the bush kanaka who remains on his own place and tends
to his coconut-trees and other produce. There has been an
outcry because natives in certain areas have been allowed to
maiket their copra direct. These natives make money and
will continue to do so. The same with natives who have
saved enough to buy trucks and cart produce for native
growers. uvt
This is probably the class of native your article refers to,
and at present the financial ones are few and far between.
There will always be fool whites who will sell the natives grog •
but the culprits and the remedy would not be hard to find if
a determined effort was made to stop the practice.
The writer of the article replies:
If the thing were as simple as all that there would be
?n non 8 t ° worr y about. On indent in a normal year there are
30,000 natives. Of these, 14,000 are paid off each year, and
6 o, baVe t 0 111 P a y-°ff money in their possession.
It the money is mortgaged or stolen it does not affect the
purpose for which it is used. Anyway, all boys are Com-
munists they share everything. Some natives re-sign contracts
but a growing number, alter one contract, Jive on
taking home habits learned in “civilisation.”
Fbe Rabaul “Times” (19/2/’37) reported:
Already in some districts—notably Rabaul—the natives
aie becoming monetarily independent, many of them filling
boxes with shillings and pounds and burying them beneath
the roofs of their leaf houses.”
r At a meeting of Rabaul residents in December, 1936,
J. C. Mullaly, M.L.C., the chairman, spoke of “the ever-
mcreasing number of natives who may be seen—and heard—
at various hours of the day and night, particularly during week-
ends, careering along the roads outside the township in their
own or hired cars or lorries, reeking with betel-nut or possibly
a stronger concoction of alcohol. Quantities of alcohol are
obtainable by natives by means other than theft.”
Th e Rabaul “Times” again (October 15, 1937):
“Natives around Rabaul are getting drunk and consuming
alcohol with all the old secrecy of the Ingiet [an old-time
secret society] The difference between then and now is that
the leaders are young bloods, and they are aided by modern
devices.. . .particularly the car. It is a common thing to sec
thiee or four cars, expensive limousines, driving out of Rabaul
at 1 1 o clock at night, each full of natives going to the
rendezvous somewhere on the north coast or Kokopo-road.
i hey return to Rabaul m the early hours, having attended a
drinking party... A trader recently stated that boys often
came to him with a pound in their hands for a bottle of
W rf,i y and that, it he was unscrupulous, he could make quite
a little fortune out of a native sly-grog shop. There is a
very large section of the community which is not so scrupulous
....Prevention will not be easy while natives have plenty of
rnon ?y and , are allowed to leave and re-enter Rabaul.”
The editor of the Rabaul “Times” is one of the best-
known authont.es on the New Guinea native, and his attitude
towards them generally is that they are more sinned against
boys Smn,ng “ The boys he refers t 0 are town boys—indent


Society
“Philolog ’: I always like to come on
an old word in a novel setting, and the
statement of a Sydney suburban mayor
in a deputation to the Minister for Jus-
tice that his district was “seething with
sympathy” for a man held to have re-
ceived an unnecessarily stiff sentence for
manslaughter is a case in point. One
often hears (especially from union secre-
taries) of a body of persons seething with
disaffection, resentment, unrest, indig-
nation and so on —all regrettable states
of mind —but “seething with sympathy”
is a newy to me. It reminds me of a
reporter with whom I was once asso-
ciated whp, sent to write up the appoint-
ments of a new pub, placed it upon
record that the billiard-room was “replete
with one of ’s best billiard-tables.”
Actually he wasn’t far wrong, for the
architect or someone hadn’t allowed for
the elbow-room required by cues, and
the butts would occasionally knock
against the walls.
* * *
“Ibn el Issar”: “D. Beech” (B. 5/5/’3B)
is slightly astray when he says that mullet-
roes are popular as food during the fast
of Ramadan, “when fish, flesh and fowl
may not be eaten.” The fast only
extends from sunrise to sunset. Be-
fore and after the Faithful can fill
up to capacity, and do so enthusi-
astically. It is also forbidden to
drink water during the fast hours. I
pointed this out once to an old Gyppo
potentate on whom I made a duty call
at his palace on the western border of
Egypt. The old gentleman suggested a
drink, and on my protest pointed out
that only milk and water were banned,
the Koran saying nothing about beer.
He acted accordingly, taking aniseed
brandy himself.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Among recent arri-
vals in Brisbane have been Digger, Doris
and Dooley, and we approve of them all.
Digger supplements a small A.I.F. pen-
sion with performances of trick piano-
playing and ventriloquism, writes plays
and, when opportunity offers, produces
them in country towns with local stage-
minded casts. Doris in private life is
Mrs. Digger; singer, dancer and actress
in her public capacity. Met lots of
wayside buskers before, have you?. Not
like them. In 12 months Digger and
Doris have walked—really walked—the
1500 miles from Melbourne in search of
better air for Digger’s gas-damaged
lungs. What’s more, they have towed a
handcart with 3001 b. and more of camp-
ing and professional outfit all the way.
You simply can’t get a lift with a 3001 b.
handcart, and they don’t want lifts, any-
how. As for Dooley, my Dillinger and
he palled up immediately.
“Stoo”: Touching those smugglers’
utensils (B. 12/5/’3B), one of those large
cylinders that usually contain oxygen was
a matter of some interest to Maoriland
Customs and police a few years ago
when smuggling M.L. silver coins into
Australia was a profitable business. I
saw a wideawake Customs officer at New-
haven (England) pass a traveller’s suit-
case without comment and then demand
peremptorily, “What’s in that paper bag
you’re carrying?” “Three bananas and
an apple,” the voyager answered truth-
fully. The suitcase was stuffed with
scent, silk and contraband of all
descriptions from Paris.
* * * *
“D.”: An Anglo-Saxon Melbourne
girl with blue eyes and auburn hair is
to marry young Menuhin, the fiddler, and
Mary Maguire, the film actress, is, it is
alleged, to become the fourth (or
fifth) bride of a moving-picture mag-
nate named Schenck, who is old
enough to be her grandfather. Jew-
Gentile marriages in the show busi-
ness have no very wonderful history.
A case in point was the Moiseiwitsch-
Daisy Kennedy alliance, which was dis-
solved, the lady marrying John Drink-
water. However, young Menuhin’s
manager assures his public that the Menu-
hins are not conforming Jews, and that
“ Don’t talk to me about Fairbairn now We've adopted this catcha-da-flathead style."
the impassioned youth has never been
inside a synagogue ; so perhaps there will
be no diplomatic protest from Hitler.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The provisions
of the Naval Discipline Act seem to have
puzzled the Queensland police over the
matter of the alleged wilful killing of a
member of the crew of H.M.S. Dorset-
shire during a voyage up the Queensland
coast en route to Hong Kong. The usual
practice of the British Navy in charges
involving murder is to hand the prisoner
over to the civil police, to be dealt with
in England by English law, with a jury
of 12 Englishmen and an English Judge.
A court-martial may try such cases
abroad, but direct permission from the
Admiralty is necessary, and the whole
procedure is even more strict and tech-
nically legal than any ordinary jury trial
in England. So, my brother-Australians,
any ideas of a body dangling at a British
yardarm may be dismissed.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: You city folk who
moan about a whiff of onions don’t know
what you’re talking about. The full
possibilities of the odor are utterly
unrealised by those who have only
peeled, chopped, sliced, cooked or been
breathed-on-with the vegetables. They
can be savored only in an onion-growing
district, preferably in the early part of
the picking season. Simoons of onion
sweep over the land with every breeze ;
each shower of rain pours down onion;
the pickers are saturated in onion juice ;
it gets into their clothes, their hair, their
very skin, until each becomes a walking
pillar of onion by day and just as bad
a one by night. Not all the soaps and
scents of the advertising columns in a
woman’s paper can get it out.
“Pardon Me”: That legend about
Eton (B. 5/5/’3B) sounds a bit fishy
to me. In the first place, no sixth-former,
either at Eton or elsewhere, would have
been ordered a flogging. Secondly, no
headmaster in his senses would have in-
vited any pupil to come up and see
him sometime and then have let the
culprit go. Thirdly, no one passes
straight from Eton, or any other public
school, to a commission in the House-
hold Brigade or any other British regi-
ment. They can do so only via Sand-
hurst, Woolwich, the university or the
militia. Fourthly, no one leaves Eton
with a “book,” if by this is indicated a
certificate of character. And lastly, if
any headmaster, or any other sort of
person, started flogging a boy in a hotel
in Switzerland it would mean his exit
from public life.
# ' * * *
“Ex-Mister”: There have been two
strandings of full-powered ocean-going
vessels within three weeks on the coral
mass at the eastern end of Goode Island.
No more skilful or careful pilots exist
than those in the Torres service,
and the recent mishaps to the Dalia and
Sepia, in positions scarcely 300 yards
apart, suggest to a seaman that some
powerful intermittent set of tide or cur-
rent was responsible in each case. A
quarter of a century ago Ipili Reef,
where the Sepia went up, gave, as a
warning to keep clear, the tall masts of a
square-rigger. That fine old seaman the
late Captain Banks, of Sydney, real
founder of the Torres Strait Pilot Service,
sighted in the 1850’s a full-rigged ship
ashore on Ipili, her decks crowded with
men in red coats. He found them to be
island natives, a wild and dangerous lot.
They had looted the ship, including some
military qniforms, and no trace of her
company was ever found.
* * V *
“Craiser”: Touching the humor of
vocalists (Sundry Shows, 5/5/’3B), our
own Melba’s was known to be a little
less benign than Lawrence Tibbett’s. The
prima donna was receiving the freedom
of a provincial Victorian town; “You
will all be pleased to hear,” remarked
the mayor, “that we are privileged to
welcome here to-day the greatest diver
of the century.” “What!” whispered
Dame Nellie, leaning towards the ear of
her next-door neighbor. “Is Annette
Kellerman coming?”
* * * *
“McPetrol”: The tin gods who run
Canberra have just sustained a major
defeat. Garages, which, anyway, are con-
fined to certain parts of the capital as far
as possible away from the spots where
there are likely to be motorists, began
erecting bright-colored petrol-pumps. The
authorities noticed them and ordered
them to be painted a uniform battleship
grey. This was a bright idea, because it
only needed another ordinance to in-
struct all motorists to paint themselves
and their cars battleship grey and the
effect would have been pleasant and uni-
form, in accordance with the best bureau-
cratic ideas. Unfortunately, the garage
proprietors looked up the law and found
that the Administration had no power
to interfere. In winter when the leaves
are off the trees inhabitants of Canberra
will no doubt take long walks to lo olc
at those petrol-pumps —the only splashes
of bright color in the Circular City.
* * * *
“Mak”: At one of those Sydney
parties which visiting polo players
couldn’t very well skip, a kindly host was
seeing that the chukka boys had a good
time. He found drinks for a couple or
Maorilanders, plied them with cigars and
then marched them into his ballroom
for introduction to Sydney society. Over
most of Maoriland, private ballrooms
don’t grow as big as they do in some
Sydney homes, but the Maorilanders
didn’t seem unduly impressed. “What
do you think of it?” and the host waved
a hand round a large room well filled
with expensively-dressed girls and
matrons. “Well,” came the tribute of
one of the lads, seriously engaged with a
6in. cigar, “some of the cow-paddocks
back in the Waikato aren’t much bigger
than this!”
*** * *
“Katie Keyboard”: Gee, what funny
ideas these artists and poets get about
girls! My new boy friend wants to be
an artist, and he’s got a picture of a
girl called Mona Liza that had an Italian
boy friend before even Mussolini was
born and my boy friend says what a
wonderful mysterious smile she’s got and
Gee I know lots of girls here in Sydney
that can smile just like that and never
saw the Italian girl to copy it from when
it made a hit with boys and the whole
lot are just dumb cats that no really
smart girl would ever give a second think
to. And my boy friend sings a
song about a girl named sweet Alice
with eyes so brown and how she pre-
tended to cry when a sailor boy named
Ben Bolt smiled and got frightened when
he frowned, just imagine, and from what
I know of girls with brown eyes Gee
I’ll bet she kidded him and had a good
time with the money he gave her before
he went sailing again.
* * * *
“Q.Y.”: A queer sort of thief has got
the Brisbane police baffled. His line
is to enter a house in the absence of
the occupants, overhaul the wardrobes
of adult male residents and remove the
best suit. Nothing else is taken. As a
disgusted J. Hop remarked, if they all
fit him he must be by far the best-
dressed man in Brisbane. So far his
“acquired” wardrobe is sufficient to pro-
vide a change for each day of the week
and two on Sundays. He is not appar-
ently given to mixing in the gayer night
life of the metropolis, as his reported bag
includes neither dinner jacket nor tails.
* $ * *
“Dodger”: That “artificial starvation”
thing is real. Some years ago I knew a
drover —call him Tom. He had money
in the bank, and his ruling passion was
to add to it. He refused to feed himself.
He took sick. We carted him into the
hospital, Tom protesting all the time
that the expenses would be too heavy.
We left him there for the doc. to do his
job on him and the nurses to make eyes
at him. They didn’t. The medico said
there was nothing that could be done.
Tom had systematically starved himself
for years, and there was not enough of
him left to salvage.
SWEET ACCORD.
“A bill to increase the salaries of members and
Ministers was introduced by the Treasurer, Mr. Casev.
and passed by the House of Heps, after the Opposi-
tion leader, Mr. Curtin, had expressed his entire
agreement with it.”
Though on all other subjects these voluble
souls
Are reckoned as widely apart as the poles
And each is adept at the picking of holes
In aught that the other proposes,
There’s one proposition on which they can meet
Twin-minded, and scrap controversial heat
For that pleasant accord and agreement com-
plete
Which obviates counting the noses.
They may bicker and battle as hard as they
can
On all that’s within their political span,
From Darwin to Derwent, from Spain to Japan.
To listening benches and galleries
They may bellow their irreconcilable views,
But the bitterest foes can fraternally fuse
When it comes to the question of raising their
screws
And slapping a bit on their salaries.
There’s a magical spell in the mention of cash
For a pro tern, appeasement of spirits that
clash;
It’s a curb upon voices that revel in lash
And simmering passions assuages.
The lambkin that bleats and the lion that
growls
Can be mates for the nonce, and the eagles and
owls
Line up for the handout along with the fowls
When our statesmen are lifting their wages.
The obvious duty, as ev’ryone knows,
Of the Boss Oppositionist is to oppose
Each project or plan that’s designed by his foes
And stamp it as fudge and flapdoodle;
But all rules have exceptions, and this wasn’t
meant
To be slavishly followed in any event,
So lips trained to register fierce discontent
May relax for a moment in smiling assent
When the question at issue is boodle.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“W.M.”: The Sydney versus Mel-
bourne argument was getting nowhere,
so the American representative for some-
one’s reapers was called upon to settle
it. He did. “Melboorn?” he drawled
reminiscently. “Now where have I heard
that name before? Wait —now I remem-
ber. I spent a fortnight there—one Sun-
day morning.”
Jfc * * *
“Ek Dum”: Australia does get an
advertisement in London sometimes, as
when one of the bright young men who
make the news easy to understand for
the couple of million readers of the
London “Daily Mirror” suddenly burst
out with the information that
Scandal of the most damning order
reached me by the Australian mail yester-
day.... Off the coast of Britain’s No. 1 ,
Dominion girls are being rented, sometimes
sold outright, to Japanese pearlers in ex-
change for tobacco.
This was first revealed by “W. H.
Cochrane, the well-known traveller,”
whoever he may be. Mr. John Bridges,
the “Mirror’s” young man, promptly
took the tale to “colleague Tim Healy,
who before he came to London was the
world’s newshawk at Darwin air centre.”
Mr. Healy obliged with experiences of
his own when he was “out in a police
lugger—a kind of Q boat.” They may,
writes Mr. Bridges, sound amazing to
his readers, but
not for me. I know these hot Northern
Australian plains myself.
I hate to contradict anybody so pretty
as Mr. Bridges appears to be, but there
isn’t a sunburnt plain within hundreds
of miles of the North Australian coast.
sfc % $
“Canis Minor”: Curious how common
errors persist. Announcing an amend-
“There'e goes—l Warned ’im not to tie ’is 'ammick to the anchor cable!”
ment in the Dog and Goat Act, a N.S.W.
Minister says it will provide for the
muzzling during their walks abroad of
various kinds of tykes, including “stag-
hounds.” It is doubtful whether a
prospect of Australia from Carpentaria to
the Leeuwin would assay one staghound.
The dog the Minister refers to is the
deerhound, as different in appearance and
habits from the staghound as the bull-
terrier is from a peke. The staghound
is a smooth-haired pied dog, hunting in
“ It's a shame to blow it up, Joe, but bizness is bizness.”
packs and by scent, and is just an out-
size foxhound., The deerhound is a
rough-coated brindle of great strength
and speed and hunting by sight alone,
while he is as silent on the job as the
“stagger” is vociferous. There seems to
be a good defence for the first man
courted for having an unmuzzled “stag-
hound” when a deerhound is in ques-
tion. I make a present of the suggestion
to the Gent. One profession.
* * * *
“Derry”: My own theory about the
word “Britisher” (B. 12/5/’3B) is that it
was originally coined to include Irishmen
with English, Scots and Welsh in a com-
prehensive designation that came in
handy for Americans. An Irishman, of
course, isn’t a Briton, but as an inhabi-
tant of the British Isles he is a Britisher.
* * * *
“Coif”: The long-lived Rowlandson
assurance case has ended in the Lords
after a welter of trials, retrials aud
appeals in lower courts. And the de-
cision of the Judicial Committee of the
Lords that the heirs of Rowlandson could
not benefit by the life policy because he
committed the crime of suicide reiterates
a legal doctrine that every articled clerk
should be familiar with, that one cannot
have recourse to the law to claim a benefit
from a crime. Rowlandson insured him-
self for £50,000. Unable to pay an over-
due premium, he waited until the last
minute before expiry and then shot him-
self. A doubt as to the suicide’s sanity
complicated the case, but the final de-
cision ruled that, sane or insane, the
recognised principle held good. With
most British assurance cos. suicide within
a year and a day from taking out the
policy renders the contract void as far
as the company is concerned. Many of
the American companies, on the other
hand, take, or used to take, no cognis-
ance of suicide under these conditions,
on account of its rarity.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Disorders are anticipated in
Ceylon as the result of the publication
of a photograph of an English girl
snapped sitting in the lap of the Buddha
of Anuradhpura, the ancient and holy
city which was built in the jungle 13
centuries ago by pious immigrants from
India. That American lady Dorothy
Dix allowed herself to be photographed
in company with the famous Buddha of
Kamakura (Japan), the Sakyamuni of
Boro-Budur in Java, the Taj Mahal and
other monuments of religious antiquity.
But nobody bothered much about it in
those days. The fact that the Cingalese
have got so heated about the English
girl has little to do with their own awe
and reverence for the Buddha. The local
native never concerned himself with his
antiquities or was even aware of their
existence until recently; it was English-
men who unearthed
them. The pother in
Colombo is merely a
symptom of grouch
against the European.
* * *
“King’s Inns”: Intri-
cacies of the law? Take
the case of an impu-
dent but bright young
law student who wrote
to the benchers of his
inn claiming that the
presumption that
everyone knows the
law entitled him to be
called to the Bar with-
out the fag of examina-
tion. The benchers re-
plied that his learning
was faulty, otherwise
he would have known
that a presumption is
only a presumption and may be rebutted,
which in his case would be the task of
the examiners. The impudent and bright
young student rejoined that the presump-
tion in question was one of those which
the law does not suffer to be rebutted ;
but he got his rebuttal in the form of
an assurance that there was a limit to
the benchers’ glad sufferance of fools,
and that further correspondence would
not be welcome. So there was no
surrebutter, and doubtless the impudent
and bright young student passed all his
examinations with flying colors and
maybe ended up on the Bench.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Brisbane’s new statue of King
George V., which has been set up oppo-
site the Town Hall, has been received
with mixed feelings by the loyal North.
The effigy shows his Majesty in the usual
field-marshal’s uniform sitting on the
usual charger, which has an air of blush-
ful discretion as if it were trying not to
stare at the quartet of young lions which
crouch round the pediment. The interest-
ing part of the discussion is the way in
which artistic opinion regiments itself
in these matters. Lange Powell, one of
the city’s leading architects, thinks “the
whole thing is rather ghastly.” He added
that, from an architectural point of view,
the statue was a tragedy, and described
the horse as impossible and the lions as
out of'proportion. A fellow-artist, W. Bus-
tard, decided that “the likeness of the
lions to puppies was striking.” But the
Lord Mayor thinks the various portions
of the memorial are in harmony. The
Town Clerk says it is a fine piece of
architecture and an embellishment to the
city. And the City Architect says no
architects have any fault to find with it.
* * * *
“M. Arflow”: My entry for the
heroism stakes. It happened in N.
Queensland. Four men left Mt. Surprise
(Etheridge railway) on a section car for
their camp at Bullock Creek, about 40
miles away. Emerging from a down-
grade cutting in the dusk, they collided
with a cow. One man was killed out-
right, another had a wrist and ankle
broken. The other two, Cecil Marks and
Norman Bird, each with a few broken
ribs and shoulders so badly jarred as to
leave them for the time one-armed men,
got the car back on the rails (no child’s
play for men in the pink), loaded on
their two mates, the quick and the dead,
and pushed the car back five and a half
miles to Lyndbrook siding and a tele-
phone. Travellers on the Etheridge line
will know what some of the pushing was
like. A culvert under repair had some
of the decking off. Marks and Bird fell
through up to their necks in the dark-
ness, but clambered out and carried on.
And they said nothing about it till ques-
tions dragged the story out of them. Bird
is a young second-generation native of
the Cairns hinterland, where it used to
be the fashion to picture the white man
leaning against a post.
•I* ¥
“Specs”: One cause not generally
taken into consideration in driving
accidents is that most men, and quite a
number of women, have a blind spot. My
eyes are good. I’m an experienced driver
with years of motoring behind me and
nothing other than a trivial accident or
two to my discredit. It was only by a
fluke on a couple of occasions that the
accidents didn’t appear in the papers.
Once I was at a level crossing. Other
cars were stopped. I was in a hurry. I
looked down the line. It was empty. It
wasn’t till I was half across I saw an
engine with a string of carriages almost
on top of me. Another time, driving at
night, I was running along a perfectly
clear track. I could see a hundred yards
or more ahead of me. Suddenly, with
the altered focus perhaps, when I was
less than twenty yards from it, a solid
stump about three feet high showed
straight in front of me. Being on the
wagon I knew I wasn’t seeing things.
After I’d passed the stump I stopped and
went back to have a look at it. The
thing was there right enough.
THE AVERAGE COP.
i Iho . average young policeman makes a desirable
lusband; it is contrary to the best interests of a
nation whose greatest asset is children that he
snould ,>e debarred from marrying- until he has been
mree years in the service.” —President of the N.S.IV.
i once Association.
\a/L ma * ces a fine figure, the average John,
When proudly he’s clapped his first uniform on,
A model that artists might gladly bespeak
i " or glowing condition and manly physique.
He II be fit as a fiddle and sound as a roach
And, so far as one knows, without fear or
reproach ;
He 11 be natty and spruce and assuredly free
rrom blots you might find on a richer parti.
I hough he’s right at the foot of the ladder as
yet
/\!m 1C S real[ y no felling how high he may get.
(Why, even Mackay, who has soared to the
top,
Once padded his beat as an average cop.)
1 here’s many a maid who would link her young
life
With his, as a junior constable’s wife,
And doubtless present him with vigorous kids,
But a harsh regulation intrudes and forbids —
Three years, since the oath of his calling he
took
To lumber the drunk and get down on the
crook,
Three wearisome years ’tis decreed he must
wait
Before he may enter the conjugal state.
What a bloomer is this in a land that requires
Effectual husbands and adequate sires,
Such a ban to impose, such a veto to pop,
On the figtural bent of the average cop.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


» *
'll:"
■
l
20M'6
10 for 9 a
W 1874
For real quality Tobacco...
and for your throat’s sake
—smoke
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
THE
CORK
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
QQ
THIS
GENERATI
m
POLITICAL POINTS
The League has contributed a new
comedy to history. Switzerland has
been its headquarters since the beginning,
and in Geneva it has built a £2,000,000
palace; and now the Swiss would like to
bolt. They regard the League as a
menace to peace.
Haile Silassie, it transpires, is still
Conquering Lion of Judah, Elect of the
Lord and Emperor of Ethiopia to self
and staff. Staff nowadays seems to be
mostly university professors of the sort
that likes a bit of color in its politics,
Red preferred.
Jordan has been performing at Geneva
again, in company with Litvinov,
Haile Silassie and the representative of
Red Spain. Jordan doesn’t speak for
Australia, Canada or South Africa, nor
does he really represent Maoriland
opinion. It is no time to be presenting
an appearance of Empire disunity to the
world, and if Savage doesn’t recall Jor-
dan Maoriland ought to call Savage to
account.
Menzies has been saying in London
that “Australia must maintain a large
and growing volume of foreign trade,”
and therefore “must review not only the
principle but the detailed incidence of
Empire preference.” In other words:
We must look to foreign trade, for
which we must have something to exchange
with the foreigner.
Pity Bob isn’t as bold in action as he is
in words. If he had gone on with his
Communist cases he mightn’t have left
his colleagues struggling with the Com-
munist-inspired waterfront boycott while
he is paying out his chain of “musts”
12,000 miles away.
The Government has given the Water-
side Workers’ Federation till May 25 to
remove its Communist-inspired ban on
the lifting of alleged war materials for
“Fascist Powers.” It is very tardy action,
but the week will not be altogether
wasted if McLachlan or somebody digs
up pertinent 1917 facts for the edifica-
tion or confusion of mugs who hold
that the section which went on strike,
without any grievance whatever, at the
crisis of the national war is now entitled
to pick a quarrel for the nation with
great military Powers, that being one of
its “civil liberties.”
Doubts as to whether all the political
wisdom in Australia has been collected
under the hats of the Victorian Country
party have been increased by remarks
made by G. J. Rankin, one of its two
members at Canberra. Rankin is of
opinion that Australia should bind itself
to defend the Dutch East Indies. Very
few Australians will agree with him.
Granny “Herald” was shrieking in the
same strain until the Dutch representa-
tive in Australia quietly mentioned that
his country wanted no alliances, its tradi-
tional policy being absolute neutrality.
And a very good policy for countries like
the Netherlands and Switzerland, and
pursued in each case for upwards of a
century with complete success.
Robbed of its wars by the Chamberlain
policy, the Stunt Press has invented the
mean lie that Chamberlain and Halifax
have fallen under the malignant influence
of the Astors. The gentleman is pro-
prietor of the “Observer,” and the lady
a Conservative M.P.; and they entertain
house parties at their country home,
Cliveden; hence the story that there is
a Cliveden Set. Lady Astor has taken
up the unusual course of denying it in
a letter to the “Daily Herald.” A lady’s
denial is universally accepted by gentle-
men ; but the Stunt Press has other
standards and notions.
Not having been able to get a business-
man to take Heath’s place in the London
office, Stevens, the Sydney Premier, is
sending Clifford Hay “to occupy the
position” at £lB5O p.a., plus £BOO p.a.
living allowance, though “his occupancy
of the position is not expected to last
for more than six months.” The appoint-
ment is appropriate to this extent: Hay
is Under-Secretary to the Premier’s
Department, and Premier’s Department
and Agency-General are alike super-
fluous.
Lysaght’s men are back in their jobs-
at Newcastle after a strike which cost
them £lOO,OOO in wages—what the com-
pany, the country and the city lost is
the theme of gloomy guesses. These
ironworkers struck against an award of
the State Industrial Commission, so, of
course, the settlement is hailed as “a
victory for compulsory arbitration.”
“Mr. W. M. Hughes is to visit New Guinea and report as to a site for the new capital.”
“Got a Legislative Council here, haven’t you? Then I’d call this the perfect site.”
There have been too many of these
“victories.”
The house for Mr. Casey at Canberra
is to have 14 rooms, “excluding lava-
tories, bathrooms, laundry and garage,”
and, with “drains and paths,” is to cost
the country £6507. It seems a rather
large allotment of rooms for a family
of four ; but perhaps Mr. Casey has been
vouchsafed a vision of a future Treasurer
with as many children as the Prime
Minister.
An odd result of the athlete-worship to
which silly newspapers minister was the
cabled demand of American tennis-
players that the German authorities
should withdraw their charge against their
homegrown champion Cramm, Budge
and co. being positive that it was
trumped-up.' A similar ultimatum came
from the racquet-and-bawl gentry of at
least one other country. Both were
ignored, and Cramm was sentenced to
12 months for “sexual offences.” Mugs
are asked to believe the trial must have
been “crook,” for the “Judge has not
acquitted a defendant for four years. ’
A lone objector to the latest salary
grab, Street, the member for Coranga-
mite (Vic.), pointed out that not a
word was mentioned about it by win-
ners or losers during the October elec-
tion campaign. Gullett interjected that
“the people were not consulted when
cuts were made.” Neither were they
consulted about Gullett’s silly trade-
diversion stunt, the effects of which are
still being felt.
The new French Government must be
anxious to drop the Russian alliance.
At Geneva its M. Bonnet steadfastly sup-
ported Lord Halifax when the latter was
baited by Litvinov, Jordan and Vayo or
Brayer, the spokesman for Red Spain.
There also seems to be a growing dis-
position among the French not to risk the
loss of another two or three million
young men for the sake of Moscow’s
fellow-Slavs and proteges the Czechs.
Urged on by a new Chief Secretary,
the N.S.W. police have dug up a clause
of the Gaming and Betting Act which
permits them to proclaim pubs as com-
mon gaming houses when they suspect
illicit betting goes on there. Four Syd-
ney pubs were proclaimed on Saturday,
and there was an exodus of s.p. mer-
chants and their customers from bars,
many going to the racecourse and the
football matches. The legality of the
proclamation is to be tested, and on other
grounds it is too early for moralists to
rejoice. Saturday was a black day in
Sydney for stabbings, shootings and
smash-and-grab robberies.
Gullett has revealed that he left the
Ministry because he objected to the trade
agreement with Canada —“that grave in-
justice to the manufacturers of Australia
and the United Kingdom.” The United
Kingdom never elected Gullett to look
after its trade and commerce for it, but
the bewildered gentleman persists in
thinking it did.
In Westralia the widow of an M.L.C.
has been defeated for her husband’s seat.
In Victoria an M.L.A.’s widow is about
to ask his constituents to put her into the
vacant place. Only when the lady is, all
things considered, the best candidate her
party can put up should this kind of
thing be supported. If the opinion be-
comes fixed that representation of the
people is a job, and that when the repre-
sentatives dies the billet should be kept
in the family, a new danger to democracy
may arise. ‘
Pearce supported the rises which Min-
isters and members are awarding them-
selves, and in which he will not share.
He said in the Senate that, though he
had been 37 years a member and 25
years a Minister, and had lived abstemi-
ously, he had not made a competence.
This is greatly to his credit, but it raises
the question of what a competence is.
Possibly the 1901 Pearce would have
been overjoyed at the prospect of retir-
ing to a Westralian apple' orchard after
a public life crowded with interesting
experiences.
There are some great lovers of free-
dom on the Newcastle Trades Hall
Council. The other night, according to
the “Labor Daily,” they “severely criti-
cised the Government’s action in banning
Judge Foster’s broadcast on ‘Freedom of
Speech’,” and demanded that every sort
of freedom should be refused to Count
von Luckner:
“If Von Luckner puts his head in here
we will have great pleasure in knocking it
off,” said the acting-president, Mr. Wilson.
Mr. Wilson and his freedom-loving
friends would be better engaged in
knocking the heads off the pictures of
Communist worthies carried in “Labor”
processions. The cruel Eurasian faces
make the worst impression on peace-
loving Australians.
The A.R.U. has an “educational direc-
tor” as well as bosses who grovel to
Moscow —though they adopt a hectoring
attitude to mere Australians. The educa-
tional director turned up at Adelaide
recently and said Labor was in a bad
way.
The confused, timid and futile Curtin will
go, with Lang and Beasley, into the dis-
card unless he learns quickly that Labor
demands a policy of unity and collective
security.
He meant that Moscow demands this
policy. The A.R.U. bosses and their
friends on the Miners’ Federation and
the Sydney Trades and Labor Council
couldn’t get one supporter of the policy
elected to the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly,
though they bragged for weeks about
what they were going to do.
Not only the Australian loan was a
failure. The people who underwrote a
London County Council housing loan—
of £10,000,000 at 3± p.c., issue price
£lOl 10s— had to take up all but 4\ p.c.
of it. That blatherskite Herbert Morri-
son, M.P., is chairman of the London
County Council. Perhaps the City doesn’t
like his foreign policy.
Congress has voted $3,054,000,000 of
the $5,000,000,000 required by the Presi-
dent for “lending, spending and credit-
expansion” ; and now he has asked it to
“appropriate $72,500 to finance the
U.S.A.’s part of the international pro-
gramme for aiding political refugees.”
The political refugees are Jews. Their
real friends ought now to raise a fund to
save them from their alleged friends.
“S. M. Herald” has had the heartrend-
ing experience of seeing one of its office
idols jump on another. Prof. Roberts
wrote that what struck him about Hitler
was Adolf’s “pixy-ridden other-worldness,”
and London “Punch” ridicules this ex-
pression in a column of rather heavy-
handed fun. Unlike Mr. Roberts and
Mr. Hugh Denison, of the Sydney “Sun,”
“Punch” doesn’t believe in pixies or
fairies.
Churchill is out with a new peace
recipe—at least he says it is that: “Rally
ten well-armed States in Europe to resist
aggression and attack an aggressor.”
Nineteen years ago Churchill wanted to
lead the Germans against the Russians ;
Germany’s “the enemy” now. He admits
that his recipe would mean encirclement,
and encirclement of a dissatisfied military
nation always means war ; but this dis-
appointed old careerist has war on the
brain.


COMPENSATION.
“Don’t get into the habit of saying ‘Everything has gone wrong to-day.’ Ask rather, ‘Has one thing gone right to-day?’ and if it has, be thankful.”- Seymour Hicks.


“Le Chapeau,” the lightweight super-
quality Hat. Steel, Drab or ty 7 in
Fawn. Obtainable only from <“ */ 0
Pike Brothers, Limited,
BRISBANE.
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
SAFETY DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
Champions
SAFETY experts say that the
car that can dart out of the
way of another is able to
avoid many accidents. This
calls for quick acceleration.
Keep your car alert. Install
new Champions every year.
An Empire product—
made in Windsor, Canada
38"
PERSONAL ITEMS
While all that was left of Major-
General Hobbs was awaiting a State
funeral in Perth, another distinguished
English-born Westralian soldier died
there —Harold Pope, of Pope’s Hill, Gal-
lipoli. Pope was colonel of the 16th
Battalion, which earned on the Penin-
sula the reputation of being second to
none, and he became a brigadier-general
in France, where he was knocked. Pope
was a railwayman by calling, and after
the war he was named Commissioner.
He proved a very good one, but ill-
health, chiefly the effect of his war ex-
periences, forced a premature retirement.
The Brisbane Belgian Consulate wiil
not seem the same now that W. M.
Hayne, who has been Consul for 20 years,
has resigned. He loved the job, but age
and the death of his wife led to his re-
tirement.
Maoriland’s Director-General of Agri-
culture, Alfred Hyde Cockayne, was born
in a scientific atmosphere, being the son
of Dr. Leonard Cockayne, the Dominion’s
most eminent botanist. Trained at Can-
terbury College, Alfred entered the M.L.
Agricultural Dept. 34 years ago (he’s
now 58) as assistant biologist. He has
since served as biologist, Director of the
Fields Division, Director of the Plant
Research Station, and Assistant Director
A. H. COCKAYNE
of Agriculture. He is Maoriland’s leading
authority on agricultural botany, and what
he doesn’t know about grasses could be
written on the back of a postage stamp,
Married for 30 years ; hobby, botany.
Dead suddenly, Ernest Wreford whose
figure used to be one of the best known
T bankmg crcles Fresh from school in
h H T5 nt t 0 {l ] e Natlonal .
in 1882, and 13 years later got his first
start when he was sent to Coolgardie
(W.A.) in the adventurous days of ’95.
Twelve years afterwards he was trans-
ferred to London, and in 1909, at 43,
became the chief manager. During the
war he worked hard on the Red Cross
and on other bodies, and afterwards car-
ried through the amalgamations which
incorporated the Bank of North Queens-
land and other banks with the National,
He retired°frorn the managership in 1935
when he was knighted, but has since sat
on the board. He was several times
chairman of the Associated Banks of
Victoria.
“D.A.’s” sidelight on a dead banker:
Ernest Wreford, 56 years with the National,
had the wholehearted support of his staff as a
banker, but as an architectural designer he will
be regarded with mixed feelings so long as the
present head-office building in Collins-street,
Melbourne, stands. He was on a trip abroad
when the premises were in course of construc-
tion (about 1927), and in London the new edifice
of the Old Lady of Threadneedle Street took
his eye. He posted out some suggestions for
the National’s building straightway. In New
York later on he was struck with the design
of the National City or Chase National building
(it doesn’t matter which) and sent out more
ideas. A popular legend among the bank’s
staff has it that the incompatibility of the
Melbourne, London and New York styles of
banking-chamber design has been responsible
for the frequent calling-in of carpenters and
bricklayers to 271 Collins-street. Anyway, the
basic plans must have been right, because every-
one seems pleased with the present layout (just
completed) of the ground floor.
An adventurous life came to
a poor finish when Larry Wells,
at 78, stepped from one train
and was knocked down by an-
other at Blackwood, a Hills
suburb of Adelaide. His first
public service was a semi-official
walk of over 600 miles from the
country west of Birdsville to the
northern Q. coast. He was second
to David Lindsay, and ultimately in
charge, in the Elder exploration that dis-
covered the rich East Murchison country
of W.A. Then he led the Calvert expe-
dition from Cue. But perhaps his really
biggest job was the less-boomed one of
a trig, survey all about the N.T. at the
beginning of the century, a hot and
malarial four years’ test which killed even
the camels. In later life, Wells was chair-
man of the Land Board of S.A.
Most of Australia’s oldpr country
families know Harry Peck, of Mel-
bourne ; he’s been stock-selling for 54
years and has judged show entries in
every State in the last 40. Son of
James Peck, one of the four young men
who started Australia’s original Cobb
and Co., Harry of the cheerful smile
and big hat was 77 last October, when
he ako celebrated his golden wedding—
and he’s still very much on the job
as joint-manager of the stock depart-
ment of the Australian Mercantile, Land
and Finance Co., to which, in 1922,
he sold the stock agency of J. M.
Peck and Sons, established by his father
in 1862. Harry became a partner in
1887, and was boss from the time of his
father’s death in 1903 until the 1922
merger. Oldest active member of the
Vic. Royal Agricultural Society, he’s also
on the federal council of the Society of
Breeders of British Sheep (which gave
him an illuminated address the other
day). He has a son on a property nor’-east
of Albury, and three daughters married to
men on the land; there are 11 Peck
grandchildren and a host of Australians
proud to number Harry Huntington Peck
among their friends.
“Dick Tafone”: Captain P. W. Lynch
Blosse, who brought the second new
Qantas Empire flying-boat Cooee to her
moorings on the Brisbane River at exact
schedule time after a 10-day flight from
London, is no stranger to these parts.
He was a pilot for Australian National
Airways, Kingsford Smith’s unlucky co.,
and thereafter went to New Guinea on
the goldfields run which carries anything
from dredge machinery to cows or can-
nibals. Thence in 1931 he went to South
Africa, and to England two years later,
to become chief pilot for British Air-
ways. Last year he joined Imperial Air-
ways, operated a section of the Aus-
tralian route, and was seconded to the
staff of Qantas Empire. With her sister-
ship C» olangatta, Cooee will be used for
advanced instruction at Brisbane until
June, and then transferred to Sydney for
similar work.
Dr. Kenneth Fry, who gets the Officer
of Health appointment to Adelaide City
Council on Angas Johnson’s retirement,
was a Rhodes scholar of S.A. 30 years
back. After Oxford, he had a term as
Health Officer in the N.T. before doing
five years of similar service in the war
and earning a D.S.O. He now holds
HARRY JOHN SHEEHAN,
Commonwealth Bank’s New Governor.
all sorts of university and hospital
appointments in Adelaide.
The Repat. gets a new secretary in the
place of Cyril Smith, who becomes
Deputy-Commissioner in N. S. Wales —
William Keays, senior pensions officer,
who was wounded in France with the
23rd Battalion, A.I.F. Originally a law
clerk with the austere Melbourne firm
of Blake and Riggall, he joined the de-
partment in March, 1918, and became
senior clerk in 1920. For seven years
he was a member of the N. S. Wales
Repat. Board.
Rapid progress in the newspaper world
has been made by 43-year-old William
Dunstan, general manager of Melb.
“Herald” since 1934, and now successor
to the “Age’s” Herbert Syme as chairman
of the Melb. Newspaper Proprietors’
Assn. Dunstan had his first taste of
special newspaper worries when he joined
the accountancy staff of the “Herald”
(previously he was chief accountant in
Vic. for the Repatriation Commission)
just over 16 years ago. Last year he spent
seven months in America to complete a
Canadian newsprint deal. He’s no re-
lation to Vic. Premier Dunstan, but hails
from Ballarat, where his father still lives.
Bill Dunstan, as a 19-year-old at Lone
Pine in 1915, earned a V.C. Nowadays
his hobby is golf.
Alfred Gibbs, who is to be brought
back from Bombay as general secretary
of Adelaide Y.M.C.A., learned the job
during the war, and then did good work
in Melbourne before moving to Singa-
pore and other cities of Asia.
On a new Agent-General:
Sending Clifford Hay to London, N. S. Wales
will gain the most distinguished-looking Agent-
General and the public service will temporarily
lose the doyen of its Under-Secretaries. Hay
is the oldest senior inhabitant of the N.S.W.
Premier’s Dept. Holman noted his efficiency
when he was chief clerk, promoted him and
took him overseas. Since the war, he has
been the inevitable organiser of royal visits,
overseas fleet visits and other public events and
general secretary of all Premiers’ Conferences
since 1916. Hay’s chief faculty is his success
in getting on with all sorts of people. Even
J. T. Lang had a good word for him and
respected his loyalty and disinterestedness. He
is a born negotiator and manager of men and
a tireless worker, but can salt his efficiency with
humor when he likes. Once, presiding in a
committee of three as an arbitrator, he re-
marked: “Well, it seems that all I have to do
is murder one of you and we shall have com-
plete agreement.” London will get on well with
Hay, and the King’s personal liking for him
will not do him any harm in his job.
E. H. Swift, who succeeds T. D. Kelly
as permanent head of the N. S. Wales
Treasury, has been a special adminis-
trative officer in the Health Dept. Up
to the time of the amalgamation of the
Public Works and Local Government
departments he was Under-Secretary of
Public Works. He came into a spot of
limelight as a royal commissioner to
investigate the milk business. Like Kelly,
he tacks A.I.C.A. after his name, but it
follows M.A. (Sydney Uni.). Swift won’t
see his fiftieth birthday until 1940.
“Nagheer”: For such men as William
Kyle, of Clifton (S.Q.), some special dis-
tinction should be devised in recognition
of valuable national service and example.
Still going strong at 94 on his beautiful
property at Summer Hill, he began 73
years ago with pick and shovel on rail-
way-construction' work on the Too-
woomba Range. Six years later he
selected 320 acres of blacksoil and sand-
ridge country on Thane’s Creek, below
the old Ellangowan station. Other selec-
tors laughed at him for including the
sand ridges, but in even the biggest of
the many floods which have since caused
disaster in the district Summer Hill has
never lost a single head of stock. With
his wife and young child, Kyle began in
a slab hut, not 100 yards from the fine
homestead of to-day—now 40 years old.
Unremitting work brought the first 10
acres of wheat grown on the Ellangowan
country. He harvested it with a reaping
hook, thrashed it with a flail and sold
it for 9s. a bushel. Sheep followed, his
sons grew up, and the original 340 acres
spread to 2000. At Summer Hill is the
most beautiful garden in South Queens-
land —Kyle’s work, too.
Dr. Allan Robert Callaghan, who has
been appointed to lead a “goodwill dele-
gation” of representatives of Australian
primary and secondary industries through
DR. A. R. CALLAGHAN
S’Africa, is principal of Roseworthy
(S.A.) Agricultural College. Born in
Bathurst, N.S.W., 35 years ago, he was
N. S. Wales Rhodes scholar in 1925 and
had three years at Oxford. Returning to
Australia he had three years as assistant
wheatbreeder at Wagga Experimental
Farm. He has held his present position
for six years.


v-
’ £
i mmm
<b
f. A
x
s*■»£s
¥?:»SS
W'W
.. a f »thf•ST,
HI
*
»
«Sjx
*&S
? D
feSS /•&&s:s:
/X'X-X'X-X-XXXX-X
ggf. , $& <fv n¥
PPl|fl I!
iWXy'/XwX g v \
SSfc^Xw&.v/.wuVi'iiuWi
S
PRESS
TE
a
9-6 d.: 18-l/-:/y27-l/6. Also Flat Fifties// Flat Hundreds, and Round Air-tight Fifties 7500-2.8


ABORIGNALITIES
“The 0.D.”: It’s a pity the rabbit
population has been decimated in recent
years. Had there been an ample supply
of bunny this season sheepmen need not
have worried about the dry spell, for the
sheep would have eaten the rabbits. Ask
“ I thought you said you Were a lion-tamer?”
“So I am; but I'm just testin' 'em.”
Albert Richard Wetjen, who came to
Australia some time ago and then went
away and wrote in the English “Wind-
sor” magazine for April that Sir Fred-
erick “McMasters” told him that in
drought he had often seen sheep catch
and eat rabbits, eat the wool from each
other’s backs an 4 chew the clothing of
people who went near them. Which
shows that the merino, too, is gifted with
that brave American characteristic of
being able to swallow anything.
He * * *
“Chassem”: Noticed that the label on
a tin of preserved pineapples had em-
bossed on it a pretty picture illustrating
the garnering of the pineapple harvest.
The picker is shown perched on top of
a 9ft. ladder, gathering the pineapples
from the heavily-laden branches of a
sizable tree!
* * * *
“Geelong”: Dredging operations in
Corio Bay (Vic.) are bringing to light
wool from the clipper-ship Lightning,
sunk in 1869. When dried, this 69-year-
old staple resembles a lump of rather
hard rust-colored sponge; but after
scouring it assumes a true wool form,
though the fibres are stained. Small
samples being raised are to be treated,
and a bit has been presented to the Gee-
long museum.
* * * *
“Bufo”: On appearances a platypus
does not suggest itself as an animal cap-
able of any substantial reasoning efforts
outside its own daily round. None the
less, a small female of the species
recently toddled into the ambulance
station at Warwick (Q.) and sought the
bearer on duty. She was found to have
an injury to the tail, apparently caused
by a dog. After cleansing the wound
the bearer decided to leave it to the heal-
ing forces of nature, and drove the
patient out to the Condamine River half
a mile away.
* * # *
“Dougal”: “Diggin’ ’oles, is it?” said
old Bert. “W’en I was back in the West-
ralian wheat belt in the ’nineties, me an’
Bill Smith, ’oo was orlways experimentin’
in scientific things, got a contract for
building five miles o’ fencin’. A mile
of it was over solid rock. We ’ad no
fracteur or crowbars —only shovels, and
worn-out ones at that. But we done the
job—and in half the time it would’ve
taken with the proper tools. ‘ ’Ow?’ you
arsk. Well, it was Bill’s idea. He crossed
some o’ them big sergeant-ants with
white-ants, and trained ’em to go the
granite chips and rock instead o’ wood.
Yair, they ate the.blarsted ’oles out for
us!”
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Simon and Rio, now
contented and industrious residents of
the Palm Island (N.Q.) abo. settlement,
deserve inclusion among the escape-
adventurers of history. Sent there some
years ago for cattle-spearing at the Mit-
chell River, they swam three miles to
Brisk Island at night and hid for the
day. Next night they started for the
mainland through strong tides and heavy
seas, and after 24 hours in that shark-
infested area got ashore 20 miles from
their departure point. With all the police
of N.Q. watching for them, they walked
400 miles back to the Mitchell through
swamps, scrub, mountains and waterless
plains in 30 days. Simon took a wife
against tribal law, and went “walkabout
with her. Fearing his prowess with the
spear, the tribe informed the police. Rio
was collected without difficulty, but
Simon and his bride evaded police,
trackers and the lady’s male relatives for
another three weeks. Captured at last
after a savage fight, he was returned to
Palm Island with his bride and Rio.
* * * *
“David”: On a tank inspection in
northern N.S.W. I surprised a bush cat
stretched out full length in a trough
which held about 4in. of water. Puss
streaked for a hollow log, but half an
hour later was back in the same possie,
and it wasn’t a hot day. It might have
been in the cause of personal comfort,
but I favor the bird-trap theory.
He * * s
“Warrigal”: Just why stock-saddle
makers can’t take a leaf out of the mili-
tary books has always been a puzzle
to me in regard to swinging stirrup-irons.
The standard clip is a horizontal, blunt
iron hook, with the point and opening
facing backwards. As a rule, riding up-
hill or wielding a whip while at the
gallop are the only times that a man
stands pp in the stirrups, an action that
strains the stirrups backwards and tends
to pull the leathers off their hooks. It
takes a fair horseman to survive the loss
of a, leather without taking a toss. The
obvious thing to do is to turn the hooks
the other way, at least. The best plan,
of course, is to introduce a closed roller,
army-style, and then it becomes impos-
sible for the leather to pull off in any
circumstances. It is just as well, though,
to make sure that the leathers are not
perished, the overlooking of which still
causes the writer nasty twinges in the
back at times.
* * * *
“Western”: Pearls in the ocean, in the
Murrumbidgee, in coconuts well, one
vear we even had pearls in the Swan
(W.A.). The big bluemanner crabs were
wearing them.# No explanation. Just
that towards the end of the summer num-
bers of the crustaceans were carrying a
thin, almost transparent, univalve mol-
lusc —pure mother-of-pearl, of eggshell
thinness. And about every thousandth
one contained a seed pearl —several were
found the size of a sweet-pea seed. Con-
jecture had it that the spat was bi ought
down from the nor’-west on the hulls
of luggers laid up at Fremantle for re-
pairs, and the big crabs with their smooth
shells offered the most tempting surface
for attachment. But hopes of a perma-
nent harvest soon vanished —the follow-
ing winter’s floodwaters effectually wiped
out all trace of the pearl-growers. There
is something in the floodwaters of the
Swan that spells sure death to all kinds
of oysters.
rj: Jje H*
“Fossicker”: We had struck camp on
the Tate (N.Q.) and set out for a couple
of days’ prospecting on foot for alluvial
tin and wolfram. We followed a name-
less winding creek to its source, climbed
a range strewn with gigantic boulders
and went down a ravine the other side
until we met with another winding creek.
This we followed till near sundown. My
mate then suggested that we camp for
the night. “We might as well go home,”
I said, pointing to our tent a few hun-
dred yards away. Mick, born and bred
in the N.Q. bush, has had his confidence
badly shaken, and swears he’ll never
again go prospecting on a cloudy day.
He H= * *
“Tockilly”: Practically 6ft. myself, but
I’ve the greatest respect for these human
matchsticks. We had one in a broad-axe-
swinging gang in S.Q. a couple of years
ago. He chopped rings round all of
us, and we weren’t considered mugs.
Years ago this chap was derided from
Melbourne to Perth by his shipmates, who
nicknamed him “Half-axe” as soon as
they found out that, like themselves, he
was going over to cut jarrah sleepers for
export. They didn’t feel so funny when
his tally for the month doubled most of
theirs.
* * * *
“X-Sleeperslasher”: Having always in-
cluded a bar in my timber-getting outfit,
I can add testimony to the usefulness of
the tool as a billet-separator. But it has
other uses. It beats the axe hollow when
peeling stiff-barked logs, such as iron-
bark, hoop-pine, etc.; and in prising
back the sawn-off log for rolling clear
for a maul and wedge attack there is
nothing to beat it. For tossing billets
about it is better than a handspike, and
when camp-pitching on hard ground a
bar saves a lot of work when bunk sup-
ports have to be driven and a supporting
post or two dug in. But it has one draw-
back—it’s a cow of a thing to lug around
in company with a crosscut, maul and
wedges and an assortment of axes and
a billycan or two.
“Flight”: A recent outcry against the
possible exportation of 10,000 budgeri-
gars to fill an order is quite needless. If
the order was for ten million pairs there’d
still be plenty and to spare in this coun-
try. Practically the whole pf W.Q. 1S
alive with the little green chaps. Ive
often seen a glaring rug of green swing-
ing through the air, packed tight to
stifling-point and covering an acre or
more of space—and that hurtling mass
was just an ordinary mob of ’gars going
about their daily jobs. With their wing-
tips almost touching, and flying at high
speed, the marvel of it is that there s
never any fluster or collisions between
them. It can’t be that one bloke is m
supreme command, giving his orders for
all to hear —every bird is chattering at
the top of his voice, and a few million
Chows going over the top would by com-
parison be as quiet as a country church-
yard.
J * * * *
“Bogaduck”: The S.A. rabbit-trapper
pointed to a lean,, shaggy, bullheaded
mongrel of a dog. “My best pup,” he
said proudly. “Wouldn’t take fifty quid
for him. He earns that much for me
every year by catching foxes without
tearing a skin or getting a bite himself.”
Being a bit sceptical, especially regarding
the latter claim, I was given a demon-
stration. After walking up-wind the
rnong. began to sneak slowly towards a
patch of honeysuckle, then pounced and
reappeared holding a fox by the hind-
quarters. Before the fox could use his
jaws the old dog began to whirl like a
top; when the fox was too giddy to
know which was himself and which the
dog his captor dropped him, got another
grip on the throat, and held on like a
vyce until the owner walked over and
finished the fox off. I was satisfied.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The prophecy of
“Wings” (B. 5/5/’3B) that aeroplane-con-
struction may get a new boost from study
of a war-boomerang is not likely to be
realised. War-boomerangs are not in-
tended to return to the thrower. They
are hurled directly at the foe, and, hit
or miss, stay where they land ; it is the
game-killing kind that does the aero-
batics. Anyhow, there is no need to go
to the abo. for boomerang-design. The
best performing boomerangs and the
best performances with them that I’ve
seen during a lifelong acquaintance with
abo. artists, ranging from Arnhem Land
to La Perouse, were home-made and put
up in a London park by an English uni-
versity lecturer who had never been south
of the Equator. His were constructed of
vulcanised fibre, and they did marvels
undreamed of by abos. His articles on
the aerodynamics and mathematical prin-
ciples involved in their flight are known
to every scientific ’plane-designer in the
world.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Fish comes expensive
to some sportsmen. During the recent
sesqui. and Government Cup big-game
fishing competition, 40 members of the
Queensland G.F. Association spent over
£BOO in launch-hire and used £l5OO
worth of tackle to catch about 60001 b-
. of mostly uneatable fish—about
ss. a pound. A 2091 b. black marlin and
a striped marlin of 1871 b. were the big-
gest swordfish, the heaviest mako 240i1b.,
and the heaviest fish a tiger-shark of
7171 b., for which the 19 certificates were
issued. Although weights are poor com-
pared with recent southern figures, the
biggest ones got away as usual, and im-
provements in gear and methods will
probably equalise matters by next season.
One valuable result has been the dis-
covery by the Queensland Museum that
the local jack-mackerel is identical with
the famous fighting wahoo of American
waters.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: The ingenious Australian!
Have just been looking at a drawing of
a demonstration of the Wolseley shear-
ing-machine at Hughenden (N.Q.) in ’9l.
Wet weather bailed up the engine that
supplied the power, so the demonstra-
tors jacked up a tabletop wagon and,
fitting a handle to a spoke of the lifted
hind wheel, fastened the driving unit of
the machine to a near-by gum-tree and
drove it with belting from the wagon
wheel, which was turned by relays of
sweating spectators. It was a great suc-
cess, though the subsequent shout cost
the demonstrators ss. 6d. a head.
>}c ❖ ❖ *
“Ray”: That par. re Noosa stingarees
(B. 5/5/’3B) reminds me that Moreton
Bay is, or used to be, lousy with the
brutes. Slipping into the flat sandy
beaches with the rising tide, they would
bury in the sand in an inch or two of
water, quite invisible to the human eye.
So thick were they that members of boat-
ing parties ashore who waded out to
their craft lying aground in shallow water
were generally careful to carry a stick to
feel their way. Many of these craft and
all the boats of the seine-fishermen in
the bay stocked a bottle of liquid am-
monia as an anodyne for the pain of a
’ray gash. Incidentally, the flaps of a
medium-sized ray make as good eating
as any fish in the sea.
THERE’S WHEAT IN THE SILOS.
There’s wheat in the silos,
They’re full to the roof;
There’s beef at the market
And beef on the hoof;
Where brown earth lies fallow
At rest in the sun,
The tiller and gleaner
Rich harvests have won.
By streams in the valleys
Where shadows are deep,
Green-grassed are the pastures,
Full-fleeced are the sheep.
There’s health in the sunshine,
There’s wealth in the mine;
Ripe-berried the vineyard,
Blood-red is the wine.
Like jewels our cities
’Midst fringes of jade,
That spread in the distance
O’er gully and glade.
Landlocked are our harbors,
Their headlands are bold,
And breakers fling white caps
On beaches of gold.
Supreme are our horses,
Our women are fair,
And none can outrival
Our men of the air.
While warmongers threaten
High office and throne,
Our mill wheels are grinding,
And peace is our own.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


“Gryllus”: Some of these armchair
nature-writers exert positively dangerous
influences on the human young. Our
12-year-oid hurled a book across the
room and announced that she’d never
again believe anything she read. The
reason for this statement turned out to
be a nicely-written account of a poor
little widow bird of some entirely un-
identifiable species who pined away and
died after her husband and children had
been foully slain by a hawk. The book
was a school prize. “Didn’t we see what
Mrs. Crack did?” the child demanded
fiercely. We had. Mrs. Crack, short
for Cracticus, was a lady butcher-bird
who last spring reared a family to the
first-feathers stage under our joint in-
terested observation. Mr. Crack, clearly
recognisable by reason of a bent left leg,
disappeared mysteriously. A wet, cold
day intervened. When it cleared we
called, just in time to see Mrs. Crack,
with an evidently smitten boy-friend, in-
specting the three dead infants. They
wound up by eating them!
* * * *
“N.7Y.”: Dogs of pace? Consider
my cattle-dog Wally. He was sent to
me from a station on the Georgina
(W.Q.) to a place near Charters Towers.
Wally had to come about a hundred
miles by road, three or four hundred by
train and another 20 by road before he
reached me. The day the dog was started
the fellow who sent him wired me from
Urandangie. It was an even start be-
tween the dog and the telegram. That
hound beat the wire by two days!
* H* * *
“Half-inch”: Rainfall is queerly in-
consistent. A paddock on one side will
have waving green grass right to the
boundary fence. On the other side of
that fence there’ll only be dry stubble
It isn’t a matter of stocking—both pad-
docks can be unstocked. As often a man
will see country on one side of a creek
knee-deep in bog, all gilgais full and
pads running ; on the other side of the
channel, not more than 30ft. to 60ft., the
dust on the surface won’t even be pock-
marked by falling drops of rain. Per-
haps the outstanding instance of the
ability of a creek to serve as a boundary
for rain is the Don River, south of
Bowen (N.Q.). On the south side of that
cut in the ground and fringe of timber
the rain averages about 70in. a year. On
the north side, not half a mile distant,
the average drops to about 30in.
* * * *
“Billy See”: There’s no question about
the efficacy of that bee-sting treatment
for rheumatism. After reading that par.
(B. 21/4/’3B) I persuaded Old Paddy,
who reckons that “most av the toime he’s
that sthiff that if he wuz to bend he’d
“Serves you right! I told you to buy the car first!"
break,” to bare one leg and foot (the
worst), and, after giving the hive a kick,
hold the limb there while the angry
honey people rushed out. The cure was
perfect and almost instantaneous —to see
the way Paddy faded into the distance
with most of the hive after him might
have led to the belief that he was train-
ing for the next Olympic Games. But,
like a good bender, the after-effects took
some combating. With half a hundred
stings, well distributed, Paddy began to
swell —leg, foot, hands, eyes, nose,
mouth, even ears. He became so in-
flated that young Mick was sent hell’s
bells 15 miles to fetch the doctor. Even
after a week Paddy isn’t sure whether
the pains and stiffness are due to the
stings or to the “screws.” However, he
has hopes of getting about again soon.
In the meantime I have written offering
to pay the doctor. And also to the police
asking the suspension of Paddy’s gun
license.
* * * *l*
“S.”: Diet affects not only the flavor
of fish (B. 5/5/’3B), but, in the case of
Maoriland’s trout, their coloring as well.
Reason why the flesh of Taupo trout has
its rich salmon color and its excellent
flavor is said to be the fresh-water cray-
fish which figure so largely on the lake
menu. ,Sea-run trout usually have the
same coloring and flavor; trout from
sluggish streams taste of weeds, and trout
from ponds or dams either of mud or
worms. Once over Taupo way I saw a
“They showers ll bring on the grass fine, Wilium.”
121 b. brown trout whose tuckerbox con-
tained a fine water-rat, but I wasn’t
game to see how that had affected the
flavor.
* * * *
“Adol”: Recently a Friesian heifer at
Moonta (S.A.) gave birth to a calf with
four ears and four eyes. Only once or
twice in the last 14 years has the district’s
annual rainfall equalled the average since
records were first kept, and poor pastures
have become the farmers’ normal expec-
tation. Does the unusual calf represent
Nature’s effort to evolve a new variety
of cattle to meet local conditions? One
pair of eyes was set in the back of the
calf’s head!
* :Js £ -V
“Anthropo”: Strange that ethnology
has so far failed to solve where the abori-
ginal came from. That he isn’t indigen-
ous to this continent, as are the kangaroo
and the emu, is shown by the fact that
he landed somewhere in the north and
probably took thousands of years to
reach Cape Leeuwin (W.A.). Proof?
When the whites arrived at Swan River
in 1829 neither Garden Island nor Rott-
nest Island was inhabited —nor did they
show signs of ever having been occupied.
Which indicates that the southward-
moving abo. must have arrived after
the land bridges that once connected
these islands with the mainland had
broken. Yet such severance is quite
recent—from a geological viewpoint,
The fauna of Rottnest differs little from
that of the mainland. Possibly it was
only a bare thousand years ago when
the a bo. arrived at the Swan. That his
movement was to the south can be
proved by an analysis of the native names
of prominent landmarks and waterholes.
Without exception, these names are de-
scriptive, invariably of some feature visu-
ally striking when viewed from the north.
* % ❖ *
“Gamey”: An English custom that
should take on in Australia is the prac-
tice of “hanging” meat and game. Prob-
ably the unfavorable summer conditions
accounted for its early demise —it is un-
thinkable that it wasn’t tried out by the
first settlers, to whom it was a tradition
—but with modern refrigeration it could
be revived with advantage. Fresh meat
is a fetish with Aussie housewives —“No,
I won’t order meat for Monday, thanks.
It won’t be fresh.” Provided it’s “good”
it shouldn’t be fresh. A butcher who
gave a special customer an Easter joint,
pressed for an explanation of its excep-
tional tenderness, told her he had selected
it three weeks previously. She was ill.
Tenderest meat in writer’s memory came
from an animal that had paused too long
in front of some flying shrapnel. We
found it, frozen, a week later, and it
tasted like—just the opposite of what
army mule would be expected to taste.
“Granova”: Any keen gardener
who has been annoyed by the rolling
and excavating habits of his dog
should sell him and get a few frill-
necked lizards as pets. Half a dozen
of them have taken up permanent
residence in our Riverina (N.S.W.)
homestead garden. When sunbaking
among dry grass they are light-grey
in color, but when they shift to the
tomato patch they become much
darker. They nibble at the vege-
tables and do great work cleaning up
slugs, but their favorite dish is a
long juicy earthworm. They dig
holes in search of these, using their
front legs like a dog burrowing.
When the gardener is digging the
lizards will stand by, and when a
worm comes up they’ll dive on to it
and have it down in a flash. If you
hand one a worm he will stare at
you stupidly and won’t eat it until
you take your eyes off him. Their
favorite manner of spending a hot
afternoon is to lie where the hose
is throwing a light spray of water,
and they hiss with annoyance if dis-
turbed.
* * o *
“Huglow”: The agitation to
resume the flow of immigrant farm-
hands will leave at least one s.-w.
Q. cocky cold. They were just top-
ping off a haystack when a big
brown snake was spotted. Yell-
ing for the men to watch it, the
boss started to climb down to dong it
with his fork. But meanwhile Choom
arrived on the scene with a shotgun,
by which time Joe was half under the
corner of the stack. The shot set light
to the hay. Altogether three stacks were
burnt and two horses badly torn with
barbed wire in the resulting scramble
away from the flames.
OVER THE ODDS.
The shanty pub was ringing with the merriment
and singing
Of the crowd that milled four deep around
old Mick O’Brien’s bar, ,
And rendered more terrific was the dm by
an horrific .
Wail as Jock McLeish’s bagpipes gave the
atmosphere a jar. .
Jimmy Mortimer the drover, raucous-voiced
and half-seas-over,
Pulled a wad out that would easily have
choked a crocodile:
All of which exhilaration was in robust cele-
bration
Of the first athletic meeting ever held at
Grogan’s Mile.
There’d been races for old buffers, for the
women and for duffers
Who require a lengthy start. There’d been
the hurdles (over logs),
Tugs-of-war and all those races in which handi-
capped the pace is
By the carrying of everything from bags of
wheat to dogs.
But the highlight of the meeting was the race
in which competing
Were the local champ., Joe Simpson, who
had long and stringy legs,
And a stranger named Ben Berger, who with
some suburban urger
Viewed the populace as something that would
yield them golden eggs.
In the hope of long odds getting and a clean-up
in the betting
Ben’s offsider boasted that his mate the hun-
dred yards could do
Just on twelve. With guileless candor came the
local boast of grander
Deeds. Their bloke could crack eleven
seconds. Yairs, he simply flew!
A dissembled satisfaction was the rung-in one’s
reaction,
For to reel off time to Ben was just like
shelling peas;
So, with confidence engendered by this happy
thought, he tendered
Quite a healthy wad to say he’d win—and do
it, too, with ease.
And he simply looked a soda when at eighty
yards he showed a
Lead of half a yard, and gaining fast; but
suddenly he shrieked,
Propped and, in a voice quite shaky, yelling
“Look! a snake! a snake!” he
Pointed to a log, then stumbled on. Too
late; for Joe had streaked
Past to pip him. Unavailing were Ben’s pro-
tests and his railing;
“Fair to both!” ruled our committee, who
had won a tidy sum.
Then they passed a quid to Doolan, who’d
arranged to do the foolin’
With the dead black wriggler as he hid inside
the hollow gum! *
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


s
Are Yon a
BUSINESS
PROFESSIONAL MAN?
If so, your days are possibly so fully occupied
that you find it difficult to devote the necessary
time to your personal affairs. The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited is in
its 60th year of experience as Attorney or
Agent and is well qualified to relieve you of
worry in arranging investments. It will be
glad to suggest how it can be of assistance,
if you will call or write at your convenience.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
L AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria, June 14, 1878)
(Registered in New South Wales, 1907)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA, NOW IN ITS 60th YEAR
OF SERVICE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £955,806.
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE • 1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0.,
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
,ir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
\Y. D. Stewart. R- T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noun (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by 'Phone. M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors'.
O E FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL 11. DOYLE A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends. Writ- To
Mar., Profit. lOp.e. ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 640,401 498,086 50,000 92,315 3,148,495
1929.. 659,278 500,000 50,000 109,278,3,257,773
1930.. 655,134 500,000 50,000 105,134 3,362,907
8i p.c.
1931.. 561,206 425,000 50,000 86,206 3,449,113
6 p.c.
1932.. 276,838 300,000 3,425,951
5 p.c.
1933.. 291,944 250,000 20,000 21,944 3,447,895
1934.. 274,024 250,000 20,000 4,024 3,451,919
1935.. 275,591 250,000 20,000 5,591 3,457,510
51 p.c.
1936.. 294,403 202,500 30,000 1,903 3,459,413
5J p.c.
.1937.. 325,627 287,500 40,000 3,457,540
6 p.c.
1938.. 347,401 300,000 50,000 3,454,941
Notwithstanding the recovery in trade
and industry generally, declared net earn-
ings of the trading banks, which were
one of the pillars of our financial strength
during the slump, are little more than
half what they were before the big break
in the markets, etc., over eight years ago.
That is chiefly because of the present
relatively low level of interest rates and
high and'rising level of costs, including
taxation. Now, just as the earnings are
beginning to lengthen their stride, the
Federal Government proposes to intro-
duce credit-interest and exchange-control
legislation, based on compulsory deposits
with the central bank and on the central
institution’s right to the other banks’
London funds.
Though the Government has discussed
its proposals (they are based on the
Banking Commission’s recommendations)
with the banks, details of the projected
legislation have not been broadcast,
although the third party, the public, is
vitally concerned. One danger of com-
pulsory deposits is that the trading banks
might have to hold more idle cash, thus
tending to retard lending capacity, weigh
down recovery of earnings, force up
advance rates and cause borrowers to
bear the burden. The London funds
question is covered with the same sort
of prickles, and others as well. What
the public wants is the opportunity of
judging Vhether, in the long run, it is
likely to be better or worse off if the
proposed legislation is passed, and the
Government has thus far denied it this
right. Chief service the trading banks
render the public is as lenders, and the
less the banks are interfered with the
better service will they continue to give
in this respect.
During the last term the National’s
advances expanded £1,775,628, reaching
80.9 p.c. of deposits as against 78.3 p.c.
for the previous term and 86 p.c. for
1929:
1935 1937 1938.
Paid capital .. £5,000,000 £5,000,000 £5,000,000
Notes .. . . 47,590 47,564 47’,556
Bills, etc. .. 623.948 623,881 1,678,789
Free deposits.. 12,448,036 ( 42 220 269 43 054 982
Fixed deposits 24,601,379 j 43,004,»b2
Liquid assets.. 14,549,672 17,122,285 17,198,260
Advances . . 31,182,973 33,060,786 34,836,414
Premises, etc.. . 1,292,644 1,316,183 1,351,594
The movement in advances, which was
accompanied by a growth of only
£834,713 in deposits and of £1,054,908
in bills in circulation, reflects the stronger
demand for funds arising out of the fall
in export prices, rise in imports and
development of unfavorable seasonal
conditions in many pastoral and agri-
cultural areas. Another result of the
same causes is a slight reduction in the
ratio of liquids to liabilities to the pub-
lic—3B.4 p.c. as against 39.8 p.c. for the
previous term. Though the position in
this respect is still very strong, and gives
no immediate indication of a hardening
money market, the present low prices
of wool, wheat and metals, the seasonal
outlook and the Government loan pro-
gramme suggest that a period of less
easy money lies ahead, unless conditions
change. In these circumstances, it is not
surprising that the trading banks, and the
public too, are concerned about the pos-
sible effects of compulsory deposits with
the central bank.
Owing to the time lag, the effect of
the fall in export prices was not felt
in the National’s latest accounts, which
benefited by continued growth of local
trade activity. After providing for con-
tingencies, the spring in gross earnings
(£1,357,037) was £117,737. Including the
tax bill (£139,426, up £49,614), exes.
(£1,009,636) took £95,963 of the increase,
leaving the net result £21,774 better at
6.9 p.c. on capital, compared with 6.5,
5.8, 5.5, 5.4, 5.8, 5.5, 11.2 and 13.1 p.c.
back to 1930. On capital and reserves
combined —and shareholders are entitled
to a fair return on their total funds —the
net result was only 4.1 p.c. The div.,
which was steady at 10 p.c. for the nine
years to the close of accounts in 1930,
was lifted from 5f p.c. to 6 p.c., and there
is little immediate prospect of any fur-
ther advance during the current term.
The market prices the fully-paid £lO
shares at £l4. and the £8 shares paid to
£5 at £7 os. 6d. as against £l5 12s. and
£7 13s. 6d. respectively a year ago. At
the lower prices the return is 4.2 p.c.
in each case on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The
net tangible cover is 335. lOd. per pound
of paid capital.
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Feb., 1929. .28,503 125 p.c. m 15,750 (-a -co 907 490
Staff fund, £2OOO .. _ 2U/.4JU
July, 1929. .24,071 225 p.c. = 28,350 203,211
Jan., 1930. .29,016 15 „ „ 18,900 1 9 116 2 12,327
Staff fund. £lOOO . - •• )
July, 1930..22,285 125 p.c. = 15,750 6,535 218,862
Jan., 1931..21,437 125 „ ~ 15,750 5,687 224,549
Profit on resumed property, £2086 .. 226,635
July, 1931.. 16,468 9 p.c. = 11,340 5,128 231,763
Jan., 1932.-19,491 9 „ „ 11,340 8,151 239,914
July, 1932. .18,490 10 „ ~ 12,600 5,890 245,804
Jan., 1933..20,873 10 „ ~ 12,600 8,273 254,077
July, 1933.-19,281 10 „ „ 12,600 6,681 260,758
Jal1 ” ot 3 i' -? 4 ’^ 26 * 2 f ” ” 15,750 1 7,576 268,334
Staff fund, £lOOO .. .. ) ’
July ’ ‘I 5 ’ 230 12 * Pf = 15,750 1 8,480 276,814
Staff fund, £lOOO .. .. J ’
Reserves capitalised, £63,000 .. 213,814
Jan., 1935. .26,235 125 p.c. = 19,688 6,547 220,361
July, 1935..28.854 125 „ „ 19,688 9,166 229,527
Jan., 1936..29,267 12l „ „ 19,688 9,579 239,106
July, 1936.-30,117 125 „ „ 19,688 10,429 249,535
Goodwill disclosed, £2065 . . . . 247,470
Jan., 1937..32,598 125 p.c. = 19,688 12,910 260,380
July, 1937..30,451 125 „ „ 19.688 10,763 271,143
Jan., 1938. .35,715 17|* „ ~27,563 8,374 279,517
* Includes special 6d. sesquicentenary bonus.
The luscious earnings of this stoutly-
ribbed co. (it runs a chain of drug stores
in Sydney, and manufactures much of its
own requirements, thus gathering a
wholesale as well as a retail profit) keep
on expanding, thanks mainly to the con-
tinued rise in the economic barometer
and to steady growth of the manu-
facturing side of the business, which is
partly in the hands of subsidiaries. After
providing for taxation and other contin-
gencies, the declared net result has ad-
vanced by annual steps from £35,959 in
1932 (the trough of the depression) to
£66,166 for the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts, when the improve-
ment was £3451. The £66,166 was 21
p.c. on capital, compared with 19.9 p.c.
and 18.4 p.c. for the two preceding years.
A special sesquicentenary bonus of 6d.
per share was added to the usual 10 p.c.
div. and 6d. bonus, making 15 p.c. for the
year, as against 12y p.c. for the preced-
ing 3y years ; and the one-for-four bonus-
scrip issue at the end of 1934 makes 12jr
p.c. and 15 p.c. worth 15y p.c. and 18£
p.c. respectively on capital as it stood
before the gift. For 23j years to the
end of January, 1931, divs. averaged 14.4
p.c., sweetened with £102,000 of bonus
shares scattered during the half-dozen
years to the end of 1919. The lowest
rate paid during the slump was 9 p.c.,
and that only for 12 months.
Furthermore, the position has lost none
of its attractiveness, the board being faced
with an embarrassment of riches for
which it can find no employment in the
business. Consider these figures:
Jan., Jan.,
1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. ... . . £315,000 £315,000
Sundry creditors* .. . . . . 80,960 89,053
Freeholds and plant .. .. 130,707 132,816
Debtors, mortgages and stocks.. 120,148 117,596
Gov. sec. and investments .. 416,870 439,617
Shares, subsidiaries, etc. .. .. 16,003 14,650
Cash, etc. .. 8,305 22,463
* Including tax provision.
A regrouping of balance-sheet items ren-
ders comparison with figures prior to
1937 of little value. The amount coming
to sundry creditors (up £8087) includes
an unspecified provision for taxation.
Practically all last year’s surplus earnings
went into Government securities (up
£22,747) and cash (up £14,158). The
feature that catches the eye is that at
the end of January the whole of the
share capital and £124,617 besides were
represented by Government securities and
other outside investments. Exactly what
the board’s aim is in continuing to pile
up this accumulation of liquids it has
never disclosed.
However, the attractiveness of the
finances and of earning power has kept
the scrip at a high premium in the mar-
ket, notwithstanding that nothing more
has been heard, and may not be now,
of the negotiations with Boots Pure
Drug Co., the big English concern that
thought of setting up in the pharmaceu-
tical business here a year or so ago. At
88s. 9d. (the price range was 825.-90 s.
in 1937) the pound shares return 3.2 p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div. basis, or 4 p.c. on an
18 p.c. distribution. Visibly the cover
is 375. 9d. in net tangibles.
Country Producers’ Selling Co. (Sydney)
Bonus To
to Con- Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividend. signors, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 22,404 10 p.c. = 7,500 11,251 3653 41,036
1929.. 24,146 10 „ „ 9,981 10,548 3617 44,653
1930.. 7,489 7 „ „ 7,000 Nil 489 45,142
1931.. 10,598 7 „ „ 7,000 1,233 2365 47,507
1932.. 7,766 5 „ „ 5,000 1,056 1710 49,217
1933.. 8,060 5 ~ „ 5,000 2,300 760 49,977
1934.. 16,611 6 „ „ 6,000 4,583 6028 56,005
1935.. 6,772 5 ~ „ 5,000 2,731 55,046
1936.. 19,635 10 ~ „ 10,000 5,341 3294 59,340
1937.. 18,419 10 „ ~ 10,000 5,275 3144 62,484
1938.. 14,384 8 ~ „ 8,000 4,460 1924 64,408
The contraction of £4035 in net earn-
ings for the last term was due to the slip
in the price of wool. The season opened
well with an Australian average of £23
15s. Bd. per bale for July last; but the
figure had dropped to £l3 14s. for April,
the average for the 10 months being
£l6 2s. 7d. as against £2O 17s. Id. for
the corresponding period of the previous
season. The Commonwealth’s 10-month
cheque for the staple was £18,040,000
lighter at £37,842,000. So, although the
co. put 1692 bales more wool, 31,485
extra sheep and an additional 3818
cattle under the hammer, gross earnings,
after providing for bad and doubtful
debts, were £4137 lighter:
Wool Gross
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. Earnings.
1920 .. 35,998 287,138 12,314 £49,158
1925 .. 38,164 118,343 21,415 51,042
1930 .. 88,707 392,371 14,632 73,581
1933 . . 91,457 411,830 11,673 65,825
1934 .. 82(541 340,801 10,938 78,750
1935 .. '58,100 341,480 13,862 65,921
1936 . . 87,267 276,466 12,589 93,317
1937 .. 63,182 356,202 20,008 92,726
1938 . . 64,874 23,826 88,589
Including provision for taxation (£lBOO,
down £1700) and depreciation (£209,
down £2898), exes. (£74,205) were £lO2
lighter, leaving the net result at £14,384,
of which £4460 (down £815) was handed
to consignors in rebates of scheduled
commission charges. After deducting
these rebates, enough remained to show
9.9 p.c. on capital as against 13.1, 14.2,
4, 12.1, 5.7, 6.9 and 9.5 p.c. back to
1931. A couple of points were knocked
off the distribution to shareholders, re-
ducing it to 8 p.c.; but the bonus to
consignors, who are mostly shareholders,
was equal to 4.4 p.c. on capital.
As for the coming season, a lighter and
less well-grown clip, due to dry con-
ditions, will help to offset the effects of
a heavy carry-over—when its books
closed the co. had 14,955 bales on hand
as against 9807 a year earlier. So, pro-
vided the trade abroad looks up, the
supply position may prove a source of
market strength. There is, however, no
certainty that the 8 p.c. div. will be main-
tained.
For the first 11 years (the co. set up
in 1910) divs. averaged 5.7 p.c., followed
by a steady 10 p.c. for the next eight, an
average of 5.8 p.c. for the half-dozen
to the close of accounts in 1935, and


gcTT
$ IS
fit ftPffiJiiTMttiJ’
tlie Gin
made as Gin
should be
made— the
secret of the
House of
Gordon since
1769
m
m
i
GV^
m
ERA’’
#flS
n?l2
0«
i 169
IS!
Gffi
\)S
m
m
b®
oSS
M
mp
JJj ijou indue ijaiA health -Utitit on
Gordon's
JL Sp
GENUINE LONDON GIN
aD QU io^or? RD ENG k & A C N 0 D : dmikM in th£ woUd
The National Bank
of Australasia Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Head Office: 271-279 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, Cl
AUSTRALIA
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir James A. M. Elder, k.b.e., Chairman. Hon. Sir Frank G. Clarke, k.b.e.,
m.1.c., Vice-Chairman. T. C. Alston. General Sir Henry Chauvel,
g.c.m.g., k.c.b. H. G. Darling. D. York Syme.
Chief Manager: L. J. McConnan. Chief Inspector : E. J. Osborne
Auditors: John Bishop (f.c.a., Aust.); S. J. Wabnock (F.C.A., Aust.)
Boards of Advice:
LONDON —The Right Hon. Lord Inverforth, p.c., Chairman.
The Right Hon. Lord Hutchison of Montrose of Kirkcaldy, p.c. ;
Sir James Leigh-Wood, k.b.e., c.b., c.m.g.
BRISBANE —Sir Edward H. Macartney, Chairman ; Sir William Glasgow,
k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. ; De Burgh B. B. Persse.
SYDNEY —Lieut-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, d. 5.0., 0.b.e., v.d., m.l.c.<
Chairman ; Rodney R. Dangak ; Hunter White.
EXTRACTS FROM BALANCE SHEET DATED 31st MARCH, 1938.
LIABILITIES.
Capital —
200,000 £lO shares, fully paid £2,000,000
600,000 £8 shares, paid to £5
per share ... .. ... 3,000,000
ASSETS.
Coin, Australian Notes, Cash at Bankers, Cheques and Bills
in Transitu, Investments and other Liquid Assets ... £17,198,260 1 1
Bank Premises, other Real Estate, etc. ... ... .. 1,351,594 3 .5
Advances and other Assets » . M M ... 34,836,414 210
Total £53,386,268 7 4
The Statutory Declaration made by the Chief Manager, the Auditors’
Report and Certificate, and the Statutory Certificate signed by two
Directors appear on the original Balance Sheet, and are printed in the
Annual Report, a copy of which has been posted to each Shareholder.
Dividend for the year is at the rate of six per cent, per annum.
THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS
will be held at the Head Office of the Bank, on Wednesday, the 25tb
day of May, 1938, at 11.30 a.m.
then 10, 10 and 8 p.c. for each of the
three years since.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows: —
1933. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £100,124£100,000 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Sundry creditors 103,283 58,459 104,176 142,162
Freeholds, etc. 146,523 146,523 150,874 150,885
Shares in other
cos., etc. .. 12,372 5,366 7,200 10,074
Debtors & cash 102,488 79,909 122,086 150,410
Last year’s growth of £37,986 in outside
liabilities and of £33,324 in debtors’
balances and cash mainly reflects the
heavy carry-over. Including shares in
other cos., etc., the more or less liquid
surplus (£23,322) was £l7BB lighter than
at the previous balance.
The pound shares paid to 10s. each are
not listed on ’Change. They are covered
by 16s. in net tangibles, mostly freehold,
v- . -j— v g-%
aun imber Co.
Aug., Profit. Dividends. Off?” Reserves.
too* o £ £ £
1926.. 71,255 8 p.c. = 60,000 13,880 288,732
Special depreciation £30,431 .. 258,301
1927.. 45,881 6 p.c. =' 45,000 11,560 247,622
Special depreciation, £10,632 .. - 236,990
1928.. 14,669 3 p.c. = 22,500 10,951 218,208
1929.. 31,634 3 „ „ 22,500 10,752 216,590
1931 '■ 2 i’loi n ” ”m-i 1S ’ 750 9n«no-
• iff “ u - 601
1932 “ Profit 0 Nil 11,250 180,055
1933.. 22,095 2 p.c. = 15,000 11,159 175,991
iaoz" fJ’fn 8 3 ” » 22 > 500 n. 429 174,040
1935.. 52,604 5 „ „ 37,500 12,692 176,452
1936.. 63,576 5 „ „ 37,500 21,107 181,421
1937.. 67,772 6 „ ~ 45,000 22,434 181,759
This well-handled and strongly-financed
co. does a large timber business through-
out Australasia. Its freehold and lease-
i nl . . ,
hold stands are chiefly in Maonland,
where the co. also has large subsi-
diary milling interests, and Westralia.
A 50 p.c. interest is also held
in Vanikoro Kauri Timber (issued
capital £90,000), which operates in the
Solomon Islands. To handle the logs
from there, as well as Victorian and Tas-
manian hardwoods, a mill was erected at
South Melbourne in 1933; drying kilns
J •
were put up three years later, and their
capacity was recently doubled. Earn-
•1.. X , r- A r
mgs are also assisted by a fine wad of
investments (£278,976 in Government
and other securities) outside the business.
Returns from this source were a big help
during the last 15 or more lean years in
the trade.
Of this co.’s £750,000 of paid capital
two-fifths is bonus scrip; but it was
handed out in 1919, when £135,000 of
capital was also returned. After that
competition from reinforced concrete
and steel and imported timbers brought
years of sorrow to the industry. Then,
weakened by the prolonged struggle,
slump sent many timber trades to the
wall, and the market became flooded with
liquidation stocks, making it impossible
for the survivors to earn satisfactory
profits.
For the dozen years to the close of
last accounts shareholders in the Kauri
co. averaged 2.8 p.c., but reserves had to
be tapped for £137,459 net to pay it and
cover trading and other losses. The tide
turned about four years ago, and has
continued to rise since, thanks to the
activity in home and other building.
Gross earnings, which had fallen to
£40,669 in 1930, rose to £144,721 last
year, when the improvement was £14,723.
Including the tax bill (£19,152, up £1306)
and provision for depreciation (£22,434,
up £1327, shown as written off in the
table), exes. (£99,383) took £11,854 of
the increase, leaving the net result £2869
better at £45,338, or 6 p.c. on capital as
against 5.6, 5.3, 2.7 and 1.3 p.c. and then
losses of £25,950 and £10,400 back to
1931. A point was added to the div.,
making it 6 p.c.
Prospects for the current term seem
bright enough, but the market, mindful
of the history of the industry and its
present crowded condition, prices the
fully-paid 255. shares at 21s. 9d., as
against par about a year ago. At 21s.
9d. the return is 6.9 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis. The backing is 31s. in net tan-
gibles, of which approximately 20s. is in
surplus liquids.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1930. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 13,275 36,242 30,823 38,134
Freeholds .. 98,891 70,973 58,465 52,741
Leaseholds . . 57,795 57,614 45,937 29,053
Plant, etc. . . 169,196 121,274 116,264 116,381
Stocks, etc.. . 226,303 175,885 192,806 215,340
Book debts . . 74,218 106,821 125,856 117,908
Shares other
cos. . . 148,471 152,978 154,457 160,922
I n v e stnaents,
cash, etc. . . 223,549 314,649 305,958 303,797
Last year’s growth of £22,534 in stocks,
making the increase £96,453 over the
last three years, reflects preparation for
still brisker trading. Debtors’ balances
were reduced by £7948, making the net
growth over the three-year period
£43,483. On freeholds £5724 more was
written off than was spent, and the book
value of leaseholds was reduced by
£16,884. There was little change in
the plant, etc., figure. Including
stocks but not shares in other cos.,
the year’s improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£598,875) was
£5078. The feature which catches the
eye is investments and cash, made up-
of Government securities, £130,917,
other loans and debentures, £148,059 ;
cash, £24,821 ; total, £303,797, or 10s.
Id. per share. How much of this will
ultimately be required for trading pur-
poses remains to be seen; a part return
of capital is a possibility.
J
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co. (S.A.)
w '
, r „ „ To Re -
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £
1926.. 8,663 10 p.c. = 6000 2663 28.204
1927.. 10,366 io „ „ 6000 4366 32,570
1928 Provident fund) £io 6 o°o° 0 } 3514 36 > 084
1929.. 11,182 io p.c. = 6000 5182 41,266
1930.. 13,101 10 „ „ 9000 4101 45,367
1931.. 11,764 10 ” ; 9000 1 ’'
Provident fund, £lOOO j 1764 47,131
1932.. 11,160 10 p.c. = 9000 2160 49,291
1933.. 10,213 10 „ „ 9000 1213 50,504
1934.. 12,210 io „ , 90oo| 2010 52 514
Provident fund. £l2OO j
1935.. 12,186 10 p.c. = 9000 3186 55,700
1936.. 12,828 10 „ „ 9000 7 282 S 58 528
1937 P . r °uS Sp d c. = 10 9°(!w 2337 60,’ 8 65
1938.. 12,284 io „ „ 9000 3284 64,149
Notwithstanding slump and its con-
comitants and the fact that £30,000 of
fresh capital was gathered at par in 1930,
making the total on the share-register
rrsn aaa • t/:a aaa a t, .
£9OOOO in 360,000 pound shares paid
to 5s each there has been no faker in
the 10 p.c. div. (it began 20 years ago)
paid by this offshoot of Elder, Smith
and Co. For this happy state of affairs
shareholders can thank the management
mainly for the wide margin between earn-
ings and distributions before the slump,
and for continued expansion of business
—gained largely through the influence of
the parent—which helped to offset the
effects of the fall in interest rates and
values upon returns from investments
and corpus and other commission earn-
ings. Also, the co. had nothing invested
in bricks and mortar until about three
years ago. Thus, so far as its own funds
are concerned, it escaped the effects of
slump upon property and rental values,
while it has benefited from the recent
recovery in this connection,
During the last term £16,798 was spent
on the freehold (in Curry-strfiet, Adel-
aide), raising its book value to £34,138,
and £12,246 was snipped off the amount
coming to sundry creditors (now £1634).
Government securities were drawn on for
£28,977 for the purpose, reducing them to
£110,651 (cost). Other assets are equip-
ment, £1100; advances, £10,149; cash,
etc., £7245.
The net g row t b j n the volume of trusts
on the books was £90 ,104:
Exgg c o{
Trusts. income. Exes. xes 'aros S °
£3,217,7g0 £11,212 £7,67i 68.4 p.c.
1931.. 10,545,284 40,502 28,738 70.9 „
1932.. 11,124,002 40,252 29,092 72.2 „
1933.. 11,614,705 39,496 29,283 74.1 „
1934.. 12,276,708 41,034 28,824 70.2 ~
1935.. 12,509.078 43,395 31,209 71.9 „
1936.. 12,950,598 43,952 31,124 70.8 „
i OO - 7 .. IS 701.443 40.496 35,159 75.6
1938.’ 13,791,547 47,207 34’,923 T 3.9 ”
Income from all sources was up £7ll,
and exes, were down £236. They are en-
couraging movements which left the net
. e „, , • .
result at 13.6 p.c. on capital as against
12.6, 14.2, 13.5, 13.5, 11.3, 12.4, 13 and
harktnlQ^O
P- u odt - K IVJU.
Corpus and other commissions (they
r \ j
range from 1 p.c. to 2\ p.c. on capital
values, and from 2\ p.c. to 5 p.c. on in-
comes) are not separated from interest
and rents in the latest accounts. In the
previous term, trust earnings were at the
f ate p.c., and the co. s own
mvestments turned in £9179, or 10.1 p.c.
«n capital. This and last year s expendi-
ture on freehold give the 10 p.c. div. a
secure |ook wh | e the section
of the busjness and the returns there _
f rom cajl be expected to gradually
expand.
At 13s 3d (14s 9d a year ago) thc
scrip returns 3.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The investor who looks for 44
p . c . 0 n his money counts on al2 p.c.
distribution, and only once in the last
n j ne years has the co. failed to net more
than 12 p.c. The net tangible cover is
gs. 7d. per share,
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


Go to Kosciusko
for Your Holiday
Ten Day Tours Leave Sydney
Every Friday in June
> \' yi r .v iddi
mm
■ •• ‘'-.5. • ■ f .. .
‘ & m
>WS- i:-}* ■■ ’*
• • • -■ :. •"■■ i
INCLUSIVE COST COVERING
EVERY INCIDENTAL EXPENSE
£llll5/-
Ask for Folder,
N.S.W. Government Tourist Bureau
CHALLIS HOUSE, 8 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Tel.: 8W4471 (4 lines).
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“ YelgabMelbourne.
1888—1938
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—A dvt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
For all Pump Repairs and Replacements, get in
touch with William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Agents for WORTH-
INGTON PUMPS for all services. Write for. our
latest General Catalogue.—Advt.
*a
fd
THIS COMPANY
OFFERS
FIFTY YEARS’
EXPERIENCE
PLUS
SPECIALISED
ORGANISATION
BOARD OP DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward P. Mitchell, K.C.M.G.,
K.C.. Chairman.
Sir Stephen Morell, K. 8., Vice-
Chairman.
Sir Alan Currie, K. 8., M.L.C.
E. P. Herring, Esq., K.C.
Rt. Hon. R. G. Menzies, P.C., K.C..
M.P.
Allan Spowers, Esq.
P. R. WOOD, Manager.
ROBERT MONEY, Asst. Manager.
The EQUITY TRUSTEES
COMPANY
472 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
Mt. Morgan
The co. has declared a 3d. div., pay-
able July 20. With the 4£d. paid in
October last, it will make total distri-
butions for the current financial year
7±d. per share, equal to 25 p.c., as against
1-5, 55 and 40 p.c. for the three preceding
terms. At Bs. 7d. (11s. 2d. early in the
year) the 2s. 6d. ords. return 7.3 p.c.
on a 25 p.c. div. basis, with the possi-
bility of more after the smelters are
erected and the extra plant gets into its
stride. Also, as the workings approach
the 512 ft. level, ore values are expected
to more closely conform to mine aver-
age. For the last couple of years head
value of ore has been diminished owing
primarily to gradual subsidence of the
ore-body above the Linda level (450 ft.)
during earlier leaching operations, and
the subsequent dilution 9f broken ore by
overburden and oxidised and dyke
material, which mixed with the ore dur-
ing subsidence.
For the 41 weeks to April 20, the co.
treated 296,200 tons of sulphides and
249,221 tons of oxides for a combined
yield of 47,2220 z. fine gold and 1778
tons copper. For the 12 months to June
30 last total throughput was 322,310 tons
for 35,2840 z. gold and 1807 tons copper.
At present the co. ships its concen-
trates to Tacoma (U.S.A.) for refining,
and the all-in realisation cost has been
around ss. 6d. per ton of sulphide ore.
Recently the board decided to erect
smelters at the mine, and 200,000 £1
8 p.c. cum. prefs. were issued for this
and other purposes. These pref. shares
are redeemable at par in eight years, but
the co. has the right to pay off part or
the whole of the issue any time after five
years. The money is to be used £92,000
for mine development and equipment,
£35,000 for extension of the sulphide
mill, £60,000 smelting plant and £13,000
was earmarked for contingencies, includ-
ing brokerage.
The new smelter and extended plant
are expected to be in operation early
next year, when the co. should be able
t 9 fully treat its entire output on the
spot. Work on the extended sulphide
mill (now treating about 9000 tons per
week) is well in hand; when complete
the throughput will be about 10,500 tons
weekly. The aim is to feed the smelters
with as large a tonnage as possible so
as to ensure their economical working,
The oxidised plant, which is putting
through approximately 6000 tons of feed
weekly, is said to be living up to expec-
tations as regards recoveries and costs.
When the reconstruction programme is
completed, savings on realisation will
follow, and the increased production and
approach to higher ore values will, the
board says, “enable shareholders to real-
ise all anticipations as to the future of
the undertaking.” The average grade of
the 7,307,000-odd tons of sulphide ore
reserves is 4.26dwt. gold and 1.77 p.c.
copper. Recoveries for the 12 months
to June 30 last were 63.8 p.c. gold and
84.7 p.c. copper. The ratio of concen-
tration was 27.7.
Hopes of a div. from New Red, White
an d Blue Consolidated, the grand old
producer of the Bendigo field, Vic., have
been shattered by a fire which destroyed
the 30-head of stamps and other equip-
ment last week-end. It is not stated
whether the damage, estimated at £25,000
or thereabouts, was covered by insur-
ance. The last div. (Is. per share) was
pa id at the end of May, 1937. For the
\ 2 weeks to April 23 last, the co. treated
2110 tons for 2380 z. gold, an average
G f 2.3dwt. Issued capital is in 45,000
s h ar es of £2 each, of which 30,000 are
pa i d to 31s . 10 d. an d the balance are
f u }]y pa j d>
# * * *
“O.B.”: Gt. Boulder Mining and
Finance’s gold-producing interests in the
West look bullish. They are a four-
ninths holding in the Comet, a 17 p.c.
interest in Yellowdine, the biggest indi-
vidual wad of shares in Gt. Boulder and
the whole of the issued scrip of Gladia-
tor. With a small pilot plant Comet has
already produced nearly £lOO,OOO worth
of gold, extracted from oxidised ore
mined down to a depth of only 30ft. A
sulphide lode of over ounce value has
been opened up to a depth of 170 ft., and
looks all right underfoot. To get the
wealth out of this body a larger mill is
in course of erection. Yellowdine has
already returned the whole of its sub-
scribed capital in divs., so the next
distribution will be all profit to
those on the register. Deep develop-
ments during the last year or so
have made Gt. Boulder a new Boulder,
whose intrinsic value is now greater than
for many years past. Additions to the
treatment plant are expected to be com-
pleted shortly. Gladiator, known years
ago when worked by an English co. as
the Augusta, is on the outskirts of Laver-
ton. It is opening up well, and recent
crushings at the State mill have been
satisfactory. A treatment plant is being
installed.
* * * *
According to monthly returns, Wiluna
(W.A.) treated 593,824 tons ore for
109,3680 z. fine gold, an average of
3.6Bdwt. per ton. Figures for the pre-
ceding 12 months were 572,402 tons,
112,6150 z. and 3.9ldwt. The estimated
value of last year’s recovery was
£A949,900, of which working and de-
velopment costs took £632,549, leaving
a working surplus of £317,351. Develop-
ment and exploration took £123,516 and
capital expenditure £22,199, leaving
£145,715, or approximately Is. 7d. per
pound share. The last div., 2s. per share,
was paid in on June 6, 1936.
* * * *
Shareholders in North Kalgurli will
receive a final 9d. a share for 1937 and
an interim 6d. for 1938 on June 10. The
1937 distribution of 2s. 3d. per share, or
p.c., is the best to date, and, barring
industrial stoppages, that for 1938 should
easily equal it. The co.’s principal Kal-
goorlie (W.A.) holdings continue to give
a good account of themselves. Main-
tenance of big widths and good values in
several parts are mentioned in the latest
progress report, and ore reserves are get-
ting further ahead of the mill. At present
four properties, Kalgurli, North Kalgurli,
Union Jack and Croesus Prop., are being
mined.
* * * *
Coolgardie Brilliant (W.A.) has given
a small Perth concern 12 months’ option
over Pomme d’Or, of which it was
thought in the West the last had been
heard. Purchase price, should the
option be exercised, is £2500. Pomme
d’Or is not far from Wiluna, and in
1934 was acquired and subsequently
worked for some time by a local co.
Last year Coolgardie Brilliant gave 90,000
of its paid shares for it.
:!c *
New Golconda mine (W.A.) has been
let on tribute to the ex-manager, and
the vacancies on the board caused by
retirement of two of the five directors
are not to be filled. Directors’ fees for
the past year were fixed at £250, and for
the next 12 months at £lOO.
* * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) has been unlucky lately.
Trouble has been experienced with treat-
ment, and a section of the mine where
the best stopes are has been condemned
by the mines inspector. A director with
metallurgical experience has gone to the
property to lend a hand, and steps are
being taken to improve conditions under-
ground.
* * * *
Lady Shenton (W.A.) announces a
surplus of £2971 for the first quarter of
1938. Receipts from gold won are esti-
mated at £13,569, working expenses are
put at £7575, and development, diamond-
drilling, etc., at £3023. April yield was
worth approximately £4260.
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) has com-
menced treatment of ore from the adjoin-
ing Enterprise mine, in which it holds
a 70 p.c. interest. About 3000 tons a
month is going through the mill, but
the quantity is to be increased shortly to
5000 tons.
* * * *
The sulphide section of the mill at
Youanmi (W.A.) is expected to be in
full operation any day now. It has a
capacity of 5000 tons monthly, and, with
the oxidised mill, will lift total plant
capacity to 10,000 tons a month.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas, a Perth co.,
has abandoned its option on the Leinster,
at Mt. Sir Samuel, on the East Murchi-
son field (W.A.). The co. searched high
and low for the continuation of a shoot
which cut out at a shallow level, but no
trace of it could be found.
* * * *
Leonora Corporation, Ltd., which was
formed four years ago to acquire Sons
of Gwalia’s interests in Cornwall, Kenya
Colony and elsewhere, showed a loss of
£1899 last year. The 1936 accounts
showed a profit of £7155, and a 5 p.c. div.
was paid.
* * * *
Westralian gold output is going up,
and hasn’t reached peak yet. For
the first quarter of 1938 the yield was
272,4970 z., roughly 50,0000 z. above that
for the corresponding period of ’37.


INTER HOLIDAY
10 DAYS £lO-10-0
All-inclusive 10-day cost includes
first-class meals and accommoda-
tion, and full line-up of attractions
including ball, theatre, matinee, day
and evening motor tours, dinners,
shopping excursions, sport outings,
etc. Additional motor tours if de-
sired from Sydney and Adelaide.
Snip this advertisement and forward
immediately for free Winter Holiday
Booklet, adding name and address,
to the 1
m
1111 Hi!
i . *
m
f!l
mi!
•. ' • - v.- hbhl
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LF.ADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking, business transacted.
SMOKE-OH!
“White’s batting was satisfactory, although
he was a rifle erratic.” — “S. M. Herald.”
That, however, would not matter if he
made some good shots.
•F *F *F *F
“Some girls become quite ill when they find
that they are being talked about.”
— Woman’s paper.
It would naturally make them feel run
down.
*F *F *F *F
Baffled.
“I see here in the advertising appro-
priation,” said the efficiency consultant,
“that you have,six separate campaigns for
six chemical and they’re all
made on the same formula. Couldn’t you
bracket the lot and save money by only
having the one campaign?”
The general manager sighed and shook
his head. “I’m afraid we can’t. You see,
out of those six, one is for thin women
wanting to be fat, another for fat
women wanting to be thin, the third for
tall women trying to be short, and the
fourth for short ones breaking their necks
to grow tall. The other two are increas-
ing and reducing bust treatments.”
Mac.
•F *F *F *F
“Sailors may have deserted to wed.”
—News item.
Yet they were spoken of as having
made a bid for freedom!
•F *F *F *F
“When W. Cridland bought the Sydney horse
Hedonic friends told him it was so clever it
could read, the newspapers.”— “D.T.”
Nothing much in that —there are plenty
of asses who even believe what they read
in some of them.
“Man of 82 charged.”— News item.
What he really needed was recharging.
•F •Jr *F 4*
“A Sydney street musician has been charged
with playing a tin whistle to the annoyance of
the public.”
Well, how else could he play it?
•F *F *F *F
“A golf club has been invented which indi-
cates by a shrieking sound that the stroke is
being correctly made.”
The manufacturers have thoughtfully
made it low-toned to distinguish its shriek
from the high-pitched ones made by on-
lookers when the head flies off.
“Look, Sergeant !”
“Mr. , aged 90, who is a non-smoker
and a lifelong abstainer, has never been to
a moving-picture entertainment, and has never
had a wager in his life. He is of a cheerful
disposition.”— “S.M.H.”
Why?
•F *F *F *F
It takes a heated dispute to give rise
to icy coolness.
•F *F *F *F
“In the case of a woman charged with
bigamy, the Crown Prosecutor pointed out that
the reason why the bigamous marriage had not
been discovered for so long was that both men
accused had'married were named Edward.”
No doubt she considered that two Eds
were better than one.
•F *F *F *F
More Bee Education.
“More Spelling Bees Soon.”
— Melb. “Sun News-Pictorial” heading.
They won’t spell on me. Hive swarm
to keep no spelling bees, for, to be can-
died, hive comb to the conclusion such
insects soon start pollen on a man, and
now when I see a bee spelling on my
white clover I give it a few good wax.
Spelling bees! Why, there’s nectar
nothing in working bees, honeyhow.
Hanko.
Misnomer.
“The driver admitted to the injured pedestrian
that he had had a pick-me-up just before
the accident.”
No doubt this terminology
Would make the victim frown.
He’d vow the pick-me-up should be
Renamed a knock-me-down!
T. W. N.
The Australian XI CAN Be
Beaten!
{By Falstaff Tomtit, the brilliatit cricket
expert of the London “Daily Guff.”)
[Mr. Tomtit needs no introduction to Aus-
tralian readers. His scintillating comments and
reminiscences, shot through with that espieglerie
and je ne sais quoi for which he is famous,
have put him in the forefront of sporting
journalism. It will be remembered that he holds
the coveted Fleet Street Cup, having led all
other cricket writers for last season with 748
“brilliants,” 95 “superbs” and the best dozen
flights of poetic fancy. In this article Mr.
Tomtit discusses Australian batsmanship.]
England faces a crisis of supreme mag-
nitude comparable with those dark days
of 1936 when Mussolini’s armed cohorts
invaded Abyssinia and threatened
Britain’s very existence in the Mediter-
ranean.
Yet, grave as it is, there is no need
for black despair. Has Albion e’er pro-
duced craven hearts? Cannot our bats-
men match their friendly Antipodean
foemen stroke for stroke? Courage is
what is needed. Courage and aggres-
sion! Let them but go into battle with
the do-or-die spirit that surged through
the veins of our Saxon forefathers and
final victory will be ours.
The matches so far played by the Aus-
tralians confirm the impression that I
formed when I saw them at the nets after
their arrival —that their collective bats-
manship, while it possesses a certain
vigor, is lacking in that sedateness of
stroke-play which is essential for success.
Nor do they give the impression of power
that marked, for instance, Blackham’s
team in ’93.
More than ever am I convinced that
the present one is a one-man team. The
whole side revolves around the Bradman
axis. The same theory holds good now
as it did eight years ago—dismiss Brad-
man cheaply and the whole side flops.
It is all a question of psychology. The
Australian team will expect their captain
to get at least 350. Their reaction to his
failure, even though that be only com-
parative, will inevitably be a defeat com-
plex.
It- should—it must! —be within the
compass of England’s battery to dismiss
Bradman for, say, 150, or before he gets
set for a big score. With this accom-
plished, the remaining batsmen, stunned
by their sheet-anchor’s failure, will be
completely at the mercy of their oppo-
nents.
The Bradman Bogey.
Unfortunately a legend has grown up
around Don’s alleged invincibility, and
English cricket has grovelled before it.
Yet —and though it will cause a tremen-
dous sensation, I will still maintain it —
the once formidable Bradman is defi-
nitely on the down grade !
It has been truly said that figures don’t
lie. Considered these, then.
In his opening match Bradman got
258—satisfactory enough, admittedly.
But what was to follow at Oxford? He
notched a miserable 58. Failed by 200
to reach his first score!
Analysed, then, we find that in one
match his average drops from 258 to
158! Can that inspire his fellow-Aus-
tralians with aught but misgivings?
Actually, the moral effect of Don’s
failure on the rest of the team was in-
calculable, and already the jitters are
manifest.
There is no more striking examples of
this than in recent innings by McCabe
and Badcock, who are the only other
two batsmen likely to reach double
figures if Bradman fails.
What do we find in their cases? The
much-boomed McCabe followed up a
century by getting a duck! As for Bad-
cock, his state of mind is reflected in his
getting out when two short of the double
century. Is not this a clear indication of
lack of confidence?
Did those giants of
the past —Grace, Ranji,
Stoddart—ever fail be-
tween 198 and 200? I
think not.
Having, then, de-
cided on English
strategy, it but remains
to put it into effect.
For this Don’s weak-
nesses must be studied
and exploited.
Take, for instance,
his vaunted hook shot,
a stroke he executes
in too unorthodox a
manner for it to be
consistently successful. He will some-
times move two feet beyond his off-
stump to hook a ball to the square-leg
boundary.
Here is a chink in his armor which
the English captain must exploit to the
full. He can be lulled into a false sense
of security.
I recall that in my own playing days I
had to surmount a somewhat similar
difficulty. It was when I captained Bury
St. Edmunds All Saints against the
Wurplesquash Wanderers. Their star
batsman, in a style quite unlike any-
thing taught us at Winchester, used to
flick at a ball on his leg-stump and glance
it to the boundary. Theoretically, the
fellow should never have got a run.
However, I instructed my bowlers to
feed him this shot, knowing it would only
be a matter of time before he suc-
cumbed. And sure enough he did.
When he was 274, and just when he
appeared set for a decent score, I had
the bowler put one on his off-stump.
The batsman’s neck muscles, which had
become stiff through continually screw-
ing around to glance the balls, failed to
function quickly enough when the off-
ball came along, and he was out.
Were this principle retained but the
procedure reversed for Bradman’s hook
and pull shots, I feel sure his usefulness
as a forcing batsman would be nullified.
Again, he has a fatal tendency to lift
a full-tosser. Apart from the question
of flouting the best Lord’s tradition of
packing up and playing it quietly back
to the bowler, it is an untidy shot. He
has fallen to this stroke many times,
The slogan for England’s bowlers
might well be “Feed Braddles Full-
tossers.”
S. W. K.
A Fellow Feeling.
Although I never solemnly commune
With disembodied spirits, nor attend
Seances where the women always swoon,
Nor messages “beyond” attempt to
send—
Nevertheless with all those folk who do
l have fine sympathy. A common chord
We strike, because my table rap pings,
too,
At lunch time are consistently ignored.
BO.
The Gentle Murderer.
“In defence of her son, a self-confessed quad-
ruple murderer, an elderly American woman
said: ‘He never allowed his victims to suffer.
It was just that my boy, starting out in life,
needed money and a car.’ ”
If only I had had a mother to put it
so nicely when I appeared before Judge
Hangemall! His Honor seemed annoyed
when I mentioned my youthful ambition
to have a fling around like a toff. The
noble aspirations of youth are nothing
to that old cow.
But I was always kindly in the way
I murdered people. It was only their
cash I wanted ; I didn’t want to hurt
them, as some callous people might. The
pains I took to see that the axe was
sharp, and the way I did it in one clean
stroke, would have gone to anyone's
heart if they had seen it.
Only for my natural benevolence I
wouldn’t have murdered anyone at all.
But it’s awful to take anyone’s money
without rendering him unconscious. It’d
be as cruel as a doctor performing an
operation without giving an anaesthetic.
Letting them suffer all the pain of
knowing they’re losing their money, I
mean. And then when I thought of
merely hitting them on the head with
a sandbag or a bottle, in sheer kindness
of heart, it struck me that, after all, it
would be just as painful for them to
come back to consciousness and realise
that they’d been robbed.
And what thanks did I get? Called
brutally callous by an old Judge who
failed to appreciate the finer feelings
of humanity.
H. M.


A WHISKY WITH
MANY QUALITIES
m
itr
Appot
ntmen*
J2T str^>
•' £ *> o„ rf
ret °ined , tto * *O5 e
W 'H ! nsi ntern °tion Q i W ° n °nd
disce* tont, y on re Pof e
_ terf i/0o _ . appeal t
Can* Pa 'Pte. °' *° */>e
/ , °°'On
bot tled ■ Club \w L .
*** •>
c yeors fce 'flg
, d °°*
$ C ° st s no Pre ' w or sf
Sc °tch bm re *On '? ren ?H
toH s it P Q ”ds. For Hnda rd
Une puoll . e Coe*.
3,8 S«**J 4 c °- i*
s, ' ee ». v 4
Cf
®adiaN (fug
Whisky
Distilled by:
Hiram Walker & Sons Ltd
Walkerville, Ontario, Canada.
Since 1858.
Patents.
REFRIGERATOR CABINET.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
12929/33, is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use'and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN PISTON SKIRT
EXPANDER.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
10128/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in, the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use 1 and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable; from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
SPIRAL PIPE FORMING MACHINE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
7791/27 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the .granting
of a license to make, use and vend, the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
IF ATHELSTON NICHOLAS CHIAZZARI,
otherwise known as “NIC 'COWLEY,” for-
merly of DURBAN, Natal, South Africa, will
communicate with the undersigned he will hear
of something to his advantage?
CANNAN & PETERSON, Solicitors,
349-353 Queen Street, Brisbane.
LYONS, Kingsley, son of Mrs. Elizabeth Kate
Lyons, of Mirboo North, Gippsland, Victoria.
Left home address 11 years ago. The above is
requested to communicate with EXECUTOR,
TRUSTEE & AGENCY CO. OF S.A., LTD.,
of 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, when he will
hear of something to his advantage. Anyone
knowing his whereabouts, or whether he is dead,
is requested to communicate with the above
company.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price tor the original.
Arthur Cocks Ord.
At 225. 6d. last week the ords.
in this Sydney optical and fancy-
goods co. returned a well-secured
7.1 p.c. The shares are attractive
buying for income, and the price is
the lowest for months.
ivißk
LET
r ATLAS >
CARRY THE
L BURDEN j
f
b
WJ
Established 1808.
Security to Policyholders exceeds
£19,000,000.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
E. Y. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
GUY H. HEATH, -Manager, N.S.W.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,.
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Mt. Kasi Mines
The annual report of Mt. Kasi, Viti
Levu, Fiji, shows what a great factor
management represents in the success or
otherwise of a goldmine. The reports up to
12 months ago recorded as nice a muddle
as a mining investor would wish to avoid.
Latest accounts show a profit, as pre-
dicted here, with millings more than
doubled.
In 1935 heavy rains held up transport
and plant-erection, and that in turn held
up development, the most essential thing
in a new mine. Putting up the mill in
the first place was more costly than ex-
pected, and in 1936 there were the further-
expense and delay of reconstructing the
outfit. On plant, buildings and roads
£52,958 had been spent to 31/12/ ’36.
At that time p. and 1. debit amounted to
£6106, development and administration
£18,359, while £6978 was owed, and
there was £6978 cash in hand.
Ore had come down from early share-
market expectations of large blocks of
lOdwt. stuff to later estimates of 6.4dwt.
values; soon after Nov., 1936, when
Major A. J. Peterson took on the man-
agement, the figures were cut to 110,000
tons averaging between sdwt. and 6dwt.
Development had previously been irregu-
lar, the ore occurrence belonging “to a
class unknown in Australia” ; and the
assay plan of Nov., 1936, turned out to
be “useless for computation of tonnage
and average value.”
The district around Mt. Kasi is in-
tensely steep and rugged ; the lode itself
runs along a ridge. Its elevated position
has made gravitation a helpful factor
in milling ore from the opencut.
After losses in 1935 and 1936, largely
because of high costs following plant
and mining difficulties that weren’t over-
come until the new management took
charge, a profit more than compensating
for the losses has been shown for 1937:
Milled, Gold, Dwt., Total Net
Dec., Tons. Oz. Ton. Costs. Loss.
1935 .. 5,337 4.93 49/8 £3311
1936 .. 14,137 4024 5.69 44/9 2795
Profit.
1937 .. 33,232 7496 4.51 27/7 8047
The improvement indicated in those
figures (Fiji currency—£ll2 10s. Aust.=
£lOO Fiji) doesn’t reflect, the recovery in
full measure. Early in the term difficulty
was experienced in keeping ore up to the
mill’s capacity, and stoppages were fre-
quent. Half-way through, two shifts at
the mine were keeping the plant going,
and time was found to deal with the
overburden, on which a mechanical
scraper is now working.
In spite of early difficulties, the term’s
average costs, including depreciation
(2s. 3d.) and income-tax (3d.), were 17s.
2d. a ton lower than the average of the
preceding term, when they ran to 445. 9d.
a ton without making any allowance for
depreciation.
At 275. 7d. a ton the 1937 outgo repre-
sented the mean of a decreasing scale of
costs over 12 months. At present it is
likely that they are down to 20s. a ton.
In any case last year’s savings were a
notable achievement.
As regards ore, 144,700 tons, 5.4dwt.,
has been proved, with 116,700 tons prob-
able. In the lower levels at the north
end of the mine higher values are being
uncovered, which is a promising develop-
ment. If circumstances “prove favorable
both as to continuity of size of deposit
and value,” as suggested in the past by
Peterson, Mt. Kasi may develop into a
big low-grade proposition.
As the position stands at present, if
sdwt. recoveries can be achieved from
the 260,000 tons of ore in sight, and
all-in costs average 20s. (Fiji currency),
then there should be £250,000 (Fiji) net
in it. In order to step-up tonnages and
recoveries part of present earnings
will have to go back into the show,
which will keep divs. down for the time
being. At Dec. 31 the co. had improved
its cash and bullion balance to £8475,
and liabilities were £702 lower at £6276.
The mine and plant figure at £72,893,
up only £1387.
With just slightly better recoveries
(already indicated) and 20s. costs, it
should be possible to earn 15s. a
ton on ore milled this term, as against
roughly ss. last term, and if that happens
a milling of 40,000 tons would return
£30,000 net. If £lO,OOO became avail-
able for divs. it would represent 16.6
p.c. on the 396,008 shares fully paid to
3s. each. '
This scrip the market values at 4s. 6d.,
giving the undertaking an appraisement
of £90,000 (Aust.). The way things are
shaping now it has very fair possibili-
ties. Management has certainly, worked
wonders.
Broken Hill Prop.’s output of steel
for the four weeks ended May 8 was
high at'66,030 tons. For the 48 weeks of
the year now run, 738,393 tons of steel
has been turned out. In the whole 52
weeks of the preceding term 735,000
tons was produced, so output for the
final four weeks of the current term will
represent growth in the year’s operations.
Broken Hill Prop, shares (B. 5/5/’3B)
recovered to 625. 6d. following the settle-
ment of the strike at Lysaght’s, New-
castle. This stubborn affair has cost money
to both sides, but other outlets for its
products have kept B.H.P.’s output of
steel at a figure 10 p.c. higher than in
1936-37.
* * *
Net profits of Anthony Hordern’s,
Sydney, have been shown at £113,026,
up £3610 after providing £55,298 for de-
preciation. The ord. div. has been lifted
from p.c. to 5 p.c. —an interim of
5 p.c. p.a. was paid, so the final at the
same rate was no surprise to the market.
The ords. at 19s. return 5.4 p.c., allowing
for the final div.
Earnings of Mark Foy’s, another
Sydney retail firm, were £1539 more
at £61,564. The showing works out
at 8.3 p.c. on ord. capital, and a 6 p.c.
div. goes out, the same as for last year.
Market for the ords. keeps round 235. 6d.
* * * *
In B. 23/3/’3B, as a suggested invest-
ment for £516, 100 Yarra Falls at 365.
9d., 100 North Coast Steam at 375. and
100 Australasian Paper ords. at 30s. 6d.
were mentioned. Yarra Falls has since
paid a shilling div., and the scrip is sell-
ing in Melbourne and Sydney at 395., a
net rise of 3s. 3d. North Coast has lifted
45., to 415., while Australasian Paper at
31s. 6d. is a shilling stronger. Market
increment in less than two months has
been £4l ss. in respect of the whole
parcel.
* * * *
Lifting to 355. last week, Adelaide
Steam scrip reached the highest point for
many years. Yield is 4 p.c., but the 7 p.c.
div'. might easily be increased.
* ❖ * *
A Victorian dredging show doing very
well at present is Cocks Eldorado, which
recovers gold and tin. In the year to
Sept. 30 last 1,900,000 c.y. was treated ;
recoveries were worth 10.16 d. a yard,
costs ran off with 4.9 Id. (including depre-
ciation), while net profit was 5.25 d. a
yard, or £41,590 altogether. In spite of
the lower price of tin, better values dur-
ing the current term have lifted recov-
eries to 16.7 d., and, despite a-recent stop-
page because of water shortage, in the 30
weeks now run total recoveries have an
estimated value £l5OO greater than for
the preceding 52 weeks. Here is a tabu-
lated comparison:
Cubic Gold, Tin, Estimated
Yards. Oz. Tons. Value.
1937 .. 1,900,000 6485 115 £80,425
30 Weeks
1938 !. 1,174,000 7262 126 81,931
Taking costs at sd. and recoveries at
16d. (profit' lid.), if 2,000,000 c.y. goes
through the dredge this term net profit
will be £91,500. If a,shilling a yard
is netted it will aggregate • nearer
£lOO,OOO. A six-year life is “conserva-
tively estimated,” and values well in
advance of the dredge are being tested
by boring. Naturally a lot will depend on
w hat boring shows. There are 275,000
jos. shares issued, and in putting a price
G f 17s. on them the market reckons the
present value of future profits to be worth
£233,750. If double that figure is re-
turned oyer the next six years the yield
w4 i be 16.6 p.c.
* * * *
Colonial Sugar (B. 12/5/’3B) is hand-
ing the resu ] ts G f its experiments into
megass by-products over to a “building-
materials division,” and the co.’s Cane-ite
i nsu i at ing board, in various thicknesses
and standard an d ivory finishes, is now
on the market The product is 100 p.c.
sugarmill waste. An entirely new plant
(0 , urn ou , 30 ,000,000 sq. ft. annually
is being put up, and until it is com-
leted su £ plies K o £ the fibre-board will
£ e made overseas on the c.S.R.'s behalf,
* :I: - *
Holeproof ords. (Melb.) have firmed to
275 . 3d., and Prestige ords., after sales
at the higher figure of 15s. 6d., are not
on G jj er> Bradford Cotton (N.S.W.) has
lifted 25., to 425. This page has expressed
a HKing for all three stocks,
* * * *
Rothsay, Yalgoo field (W.A.), has made
its first clean-up from the new plant.
The old one was closed down in Nov.,
m 5 From 1620 tons 4750 z. was re-
CoV ered by the new outfit, average
s.9dwt. Tonnage and recoveries, as
might be expected in an initial run, are
not U p to tde level anticipated when
full production is ach i e ved. There is
dealing in the scrip at ls . ld .
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Australian Glass ords. receded from 955.
to 935. 6d. on announcement of a div. un-
changed at 15 p.c. p.a.
. National Bank shares didn’t respond to the
increased P rofit disclosed,
Herald shares kept depressed, changing hands
al s,s ‘ “ d yle,dras o,er 4p c ' .
Drug Houses shares were slightly firmer at
° n announcement of a 3d. div. and some m-
formation offered on the points raised in B.
'5/5/’3B, Mt. Morgan scrip firmed slightly, but
was stid out of - step with the present market
for B° id investments. Current trend is for
firmness among' Commonwealth div.-paying
shows.
The market for Barrier stocks was dull.
Even ZINC CoRP - ords - sli PP ed back, to 84s.
Q n pnday there was no business in any other
Broken Hill stock, and in Sydney turnover on
that day was confined to New B.H. Consol.
Adelaide sold Norths at 48s 3d., Souths at
30s. Hd- ° n Saturday Adelaide was the only
city to record sales in Barriers.
Mr. Lyell scrip was in low water at 265.
3d., cum div.


\
\
I wanted
SAFETY
Ui
sited
PERFORMANCE
WE ALL BOUGHT
OLDSMOBILE
FOR
THE CAR THAT GIVES MORE
EVERYBODY'S MONEY
ANY OTHER MAKE
ANY OTHER YEAR
THAN
You get modern, distinctive styling in Oldsmobile for 1938 . . .
more proved safety features, including the famous Holden “Unisteel”
Turret lop body, Armourplate glass and a new smooth instrument
panel. You get safe speeds up to 65 m.p.h.—a top speed of 90—
brakes and steering giving newer, greater security. And, you get
value—an analysis of ruling prices shows Oldsmobile is up to £75
better priced than competitors. Drive it to-day!
m “AIR CHIEF” CAR RADIO: A special' model designed
w tor Oldsmobue incorporates
six valves and an “Acoustinator” which gives maximum reproduction
of every type of programme. Tone and performance are equal to the
best home sets.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED.
“Your Money Goes Further in a G.M.-H. Car.”
Ask about the Confidential G.M.A.C. Convenient Payment Plan.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Oldsmobile Dealers All Over Australia.
Front-rank Australian cement cos.,
such as Kandos, Australian and Goliath,
are making enough money now in excess
of their annual distributions to encourage
hopes of moderately good divs. even if
the swing of the building-activity pendu-
lum should happen to go against them
for two or three years. Goliath, which
has works at Railton, Tas., earned 34.5
p.c. on ord. capital last term, and paid
15 p.c. Interim for the current term is
at rate of p.c., equal to nearly 17
p.c. on capital before the recent bonus
issue. Undistributed profits of the
Kandos and Australian cos. are covered
up in Australian Portland Cement Pty.
Kandos 16s. shares may be bought at
255. to return 6.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis.
* * * *
Excluding sums drawn by working
proprietors, Australian factories are pay-
ing out about £100,000,000 a year in
direct wages, which represents an increase
of 50 p.c. in less than four years.
Queensland pays the highest rates, fol-
lowed in descending order by W.A.,
N.S.W., Victoria, S.A. and Tas. N. S.
Wales is now the most active manufac-
turing State in production, employment
and size of payrolls. Queensland follows
Victoria in third place, but it hasn’t been
so progressive in recent years as South
Aus.
At 23 s. (Aust.) last week, North Kal-
gurli shares are returning 9 p.c. flat, after
deducting British income tax. Where a
full refund of this tax can be obtained,
the yield is 10.8 p.c. on a 100 p.c. div.
basis. Boulder Perseverance returns 12
p.c. and 14.3 p.c. respectively in similar
circumstances, div. 40 p.c., price 3s. 6d.
a share.
H' ❖ * *
Mt. Isa shares are being quoted in
London at 4s. buyer, ss. seller. When
lead and spelter were soaring last year
the scrip was up to over £l. Isa made
its first profit last term, but there was
no provision for depreciation, and no
div. Another loss is on the way for the
year ending next month.
* * * *
Some bank shares have been firming.
Buyers offer £lO for Australasia scrip (B.
12/5/’37) after sales at £lO 35.; few
sellers now appear. National £5 shares
(B. 28/4/’3B at £6 18s.) are selling at
£7 os. 6d., and scrip in the ’Wales and
Commercial of Sydney strengthened for
a time last week, though a relaxation was
later evident. One State bank officers’
association has been putting its funds into
shares in the institutions by which its
members are employed. Some members
regard the situation with dry humor;
outsiders who heard of the case think it
a tip for investors.
As pointed out in B. 5/1 /’3B, the neon-
sign business and its finance is difficult
for outsiders to understand, and for that
reason exceptional care is necessary in
buying into such stocks.
* V * *
George Farmer ords. changed hands
at ss. 6d. and ss. 9d. early last week in
Melbourne ; on Saturday 6s. 6d. was paid.
If the ords. in this bacon-curing co.
are worth that price, the 8 p.c. prefs.
should be interesting at the present
quote of 18s. 4d. The div. has been kept
up, and so long as it continues the yield
is 8.6 p.c.
* * * *
Shares (ord.) in Australian Drug In-
vestments, a Sydney co. owning 129,626
shares in Drug Houses of Australia, have
been selling at 12s. 6d., returning 6.4 p.c.
on a 4 p.c. div. basis. Australian Drug
has also £229,365 (boom-time cost) in
freeholds, and £105,632 of liabilities. The
yield from freeholds last term was £2820
greater than all exes., including interest
on mortgages; the div. (6£ p.c.) from
D.H.A. made total net profit £10,921.
The co. has 162,225 ords. issued and
62,775 prefs. (carrying 5.8 p.c. at present).
* * * *
Recent advices from New York con-
cerning trade in Roosevelt’s country are
dismal in the extreme. A week or two
ago the position was that the business
index had fallen to the lowest level since
the gold-price scare of 12 months ago
started a general slide. A month back
the position was summed up in the New
York “Times” trade indexes as follows:
Week Ended
Apr. 16, A Year
1938. Before.
Miscellaneous car loadings 63.6 103.6
Other car loadings 81.8 100.6
Steel-ingot production .... 44.3 121.6
Electric-power production .. 91.0 106.8
Automobile production .... 52.3 105.7
Lumber production 58.6 84.1
Cotton-mill activity 87.7 135.5
Combined index 77.1 107.2
“Car loadings” are mostly freight-train
haulings. The halving of output in the
motor-car industry shows why rubber
and tin at present are so low in the
world’s markets. Smiling Mr. Roosevelt
is about to spend more colossal sums in
“priming the pump” —a pump many
times primed already, but which obsti-
nately refuses to work as soon as the
priming runs out. There is obviously
something wrong with the pump, and
priming it only defers the time when it
will have to be remodelled.
$ * * *
After a last sale at 465. 6d., buyers
offer 48s. 6d. for Edwards, Dunlop scrip,
sellers asking 50s. The div., paid quar-
terly, shows about 4 p.c. at 495. 6d.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Japan Looks South.
[London “Times” Tokio correspondent in this (con-
densed) article points to a future which may test Aus-
tralian statesmanship and is certainly a warning against
encouraging this country’s provocative meddlers.]
The Japanese Navy, no less than the Army, is
filled with faith in the expansion of the Empire and
the accomplishment of a national destiny.
The Army is the spearhead of the continental policy,
which is to establish Japan’s hegemony over East
Asia; the Navy looks southward to the tropical
treasure-house where oil and rubber abound and rich
natural resources are available for exploitation by
Japanese capital and labor, and where a vast popu-
lation with small purchasing power offers a natural
market for Japan’s cheap goods.
In the World War the activities of the Japanese
Navy in the Pacific were of great value to the Allies,
and did not at the time seem over-rewarded by the
German possessions there, some 2500 islands, atolls
and reefs, carrying the Japanese flag 2000 miles south-
wards towards Australia and 2000 miles eastwards
towards the United States.
The economic value of the islands is small but
their strategic importance very high. Admiral Suet-
sugu (then Commander-in-Chief of the Navy and now
a Cabinet Minister) compared them with “natural
aircraft carriers,” and that is exactly what they are —
an immense chain of sheltered spy-proof lagoons where
seaplanes can shelter. It was easy for Japan to propose
the abolition of aircraft-carriers.
Since the China War [1894] the Japanese Navy
has grown from 50,000 tons to 840,000 tons. This
formidable engine of national policy is (like all navies)
a purely defensive force. But two striking facts are
evident: Japan’s defensive strength has never ceased
to expand, and its radius has never ceased to extend.
It is now deemed essential to maintain control of the
route to the Dutch Indies, where oil, a vital element
in defence, is obtained.
The southward advance is primarily economic.
The risk of war will only arise if economic expansion
is opposed by the Powers in possession. Economic
expansion is defined in the Tokio “Nichi Nichi” as
“the securing of cotton, lumber and other industrial
resources, the opening of new markets for Japanese
merchandise, development of fisheries, exploitation of
oil resources necessary for defence and the right to
send emigrants.”
Some advocates of the southward advance have
not been content with commercial penetration. Last
year it was suggested in the Diet that Japan should
obtain a permanent lease of Dutch New Guinea. “Out
of the question,” replied the Foreign Minister, Mr.
Nobumasa Sato ; “Japan’s expansion into the South
Seas should be absolutely pacific.” The Navy accepts
the pacifism, but insists on the advance. Admiral San-
kichi Takahashi, then Commander-in-Chief of the
Japanese fleet, told an audience of Osaka businessmen
last year that “Japan’s economic advance must be
directed southward, and the cruising radius of the
Japanese Navy must be expanded, with Formosa and
the South Sea islands as a foothold, as far as New
Guinea, Borneo and Celebes.”
Some observers predict that as Japan becomes
more deeply entangled in China she will lack the
resources needed for the southward advance. Belief
that China will drain Japan’s strength is plausible at
present, but it is as well to remember earlier failures
in the same line of prophecy. The something that
was to check Japan has not yet turned up. Japan
knows her own mind, her power is growing, her
70,000,000 people move as one family, she times her
movements with unerring skill.
An important reservation must be noted. Japan
has staked her future on her East Asian policy, and,
so long as her relations with Russia remain unsettled,
she cannot embark on southern adventures with a
whole heart. The southern policy must remain inert
until Japan has defeated the Soviets or come to terms
with them.
Starvation in Barcelona.
[Purporting to report the Spanish Civil War, cables
have consistently so misled the Australian public that
sympathy that might have been stirred by truthful and
genuine record has wilted out. For instance, reporting
on the lines of the eyewitness account given in this
digest of a London “Times” article by K. G. Bolander
(29/4/’3B) might well have touched human feelings the
palpable propaganda merely dulled.]
Lack of food is the greatest cause of suffering in
Barcelona. A great part of the population there is
starving.
The co-operatives and trade unions are still able
to supply some food to their members, and long
queues of housewives, ration-cards in hand, are a daily
feature in streets outside the shops. In the open
market most necessities are scarce or unobtainable.
Of fruit, olive oil, butter, cheese, milk, eggs, vege-
tables, potatoes, sugar, wine, there is little or none
at all. There are not even any oranges, and a
Spaniard will do anything for a packet of cigarettes.
A visit to the central market showed that most of the
stalls were locked and empty. Even at the luxury
hotels which cater for the few remaining foreign
visitors, mainly journalists, the food is very simple
and barely sufficient.
The lack of food is due to several causes. Cata-
lonia was not self-supporting even before the war,
when she sold her industrial products to the rest of
Spain in exchange for agricultural produce. Now the
Nationalist advance has cut her off from these sup-
plies, and at the same time her population of 3,000,000
has been increased by 1,000,000 refugees. Moreover,
the Army has first claim, and the soldiers I visited at
the front said they had plenty to eat.
But even so the food problem would not be so
acute if the Government did not actually export food.
While there is not an orange to be had in Barcelona,
I saw several trucks, with Swiss registration marks and
national flags, loaded with oranges on the way to the
frontier. The potato crop now ripening in Catalonia
is not used to feed the hungry Catalans, but is sent to
London and Paris, where these primeurs fetch fat
prices. Tht Republican Government needs money
desperately to pay for munitions from abroad, and
the people have to starve that the war may go on.
By comparison the risk of air bombardment is a
much lesser evil. When I was in Barcelona there had
been no raids for more than a month, not even an air-
raid alarm, and there was no feeling of being in
danger. Although the damage done at some places
by the very heavy bombs is terrific, it is an open
question if the results of the bombing in Barcelona
have not been somewhat exaggerated abroad. Con-
sidering the size of the city and of its population the
number of houses hit and of people killed, even by
the extremely intense bombing in March, is not very
great, and although many people still persist in living
in the underground stations (which do not provide
efficient shelters) the majority take the danger from
the air very calmly.
The Catalans themselves show no enthusiasm for
the war. They are numbed by the incessant propa-
ganda and the recruiting campaign leaves them cold.
They are suffering and hungry and long for peace, and
although they do not know very much about the
actual situation at the front they have not much hope
left of victory. Gloom reigns in the otherwise gay
and happy city of Barcelona, and I have seldom felt
such relief as when I crossed the frontier back to
France and once fnore had a decent meal and met
happy, smiling people.
Tyranny in Czechoslovakia.
[Another of the “great causes” for which our
crusaders favor our going to war, as seen by Lord
Rothermere in an article here condensed from London
“Daily Mail.”]
Numbers of our pugnacious pacifists are saying
that we should stand up for Czechoslovakia.
Do they realise that almost half its population
regards the Government of Czechoslovakia as a
tyranny? Do they realise that the country contains
3,500,000 Germans —24 per cent, of its population—
who are deadly hostile to that Government, and with
reason? In addition there are great minorities of
Hungarians, Poles, Slovaks and Ruthenians who
detest the tyranny of Prague.
There are at this moment in Czechoslovakia
1300 citizens awaiting trial on charges of military
treason, a significant symptom of terror and unrest.
This caricature of a country under its Czech
leaders has from the moment of its birth committed
almost every conceivable folly. Contrary to the spirit
of the very treaty which created its Constitution, it
has armed to the teeth and used its arms to dragoon
those minorities which were handed over to its un-
tender mercies.
These maltreated minorities contain some of the
most vigorous and vital people in Europe. Their
subjection is an indefensible outrage.
A Socialist on Austria’s Union.
[Belatedly—the Australian press having dropped the'
silly business —out-of-date American propaganda films
are blaring out to Australian audiences that the Aus-
trian union with Germany was something suddenly
enforced against the Austrian will. One such film can
be inspected at the present time in several Sydney
theatres —a blatant, inaccurate, vicious length of half-
faked propaganda masquerading as an authentic record
of events. So even at this date those who prefer to
have their knowledge of contemporary international
affairs correct should find points of striking interest in
this digest of a London “World Review” article by Dr.
Karl Renner, first Chancellor of the Austrian Republic
at the end of the Great War, the one authorised by the
Austrian people to sign the 1919 Peace Treaty, a Socialist
and no respecter of Nazism.]
Both at home and abroad my declaration that I
intended to vote “Yes” in the plebiscite of April 10,
1938, roused attention, particularly in the ranks of
the Socialist and Labor parties. In their press the
suggestion has cropped up that my declaration had
been made under pressure. I herewith assert that I
expressed myself spontaneously and in complete free-
dom. I expressly added that the methods by which
the Anschluss had been secured were not those
in which I believed, and, further, that 1 was speaking
as a Social Democrat. I made this latter statement
in order to eliminate the suspicion that I had been
converted to National Socialism.
As long ago as 1918 Social Democracy in Austria
was the determined adherent and upholder of the
Anschluss idea. As president of the Austrian Peace
Delegation at St. Germain in 1919 I continued the
struggle for the union. After having been shut in
at St. Germain for months, we were handed the Dic-
tated Peace, which tore from us three and a half
million Germans in Czechoslovakia and forbade the
union with Germany.
So it was that we were reduced to a small State
ringed around with tariff walls, cut off from all world
ports, with our economy condemned to progressive
shrinkage, and our population to slow but steady
extinction. Official Austria was obliged to bow before
the prohibition of the Anschluss; just as inevitably the
desire for the Anschluss in the living people of Aus-
tria constantly increased.
Years of bitter disillusionment lie behind us. For
a citizen of a small State, particularly of one which
no longer exists, it is difficult, and moreover useless,
to make complaints against the great Powers of the
world. It would be presumptuous of him to think
he understood their interests better than they do them-
selves. Democracy! When the Austrian workers, the
guardians of democracy in this country, were crushed
in 1934, no hand was raised in the West to stop it.
Not a single positive deed was done for the economic
entente of the Danube States.
More, the Danube area was allowed to be hope-
lessly divided into two parts by the so-called Protocol
of Rome. Austria was allowed to be forced against
the will of the great majority of its people into one-
sided dependence upon Italy—upon a nation which
enjoyed anything but popularity in Austria. Was that
then to be the end? Was Austria to be, not the indus-
trial leader of the Danube, but merely Italy’s raw-
material hinterland? In that case, rather let her be
a valued part of the Motherland!
Then—forfeiting the sympathy of the very last
worker and the most limited intellectual—Schuschnigg
finally roused Habsburg legitimism from the grave,
placed cranky court flunkeys as popular orators on
public platforms, whilst every claim, indeed, every
free word from a Nationalist or Socialist was punished
with severe imprisonment. Was the final object of the
“Danube policy” to bring back to power those Habs-
burg lackeys, the individuals most hated by all other
nations of the Danube area?
Since September 10, 1919, when I had to sign the
Peace Treaty at St. Germain, more than 18 years have
passed: in our fast-moving world, a long time. Those
years have gone without the West’s having laid even
one single stone in the building of an economic entente
of the Danube States. All our waiting has been in
vain. In general the peoples are patient—but this test
was too hard and lasted too long. Austria has been
obliged to return, has been almost pushed back, to the
starting-point of 1918, back to its thousand-year-old
traditions, and has been obliged to take this path as
soon as the first opportunity offered. This was its
decision on April 10.
Portrait of a Portuguese.
[Portugal’s Dr. Salazar, subject of the portrait in
this digest of a London “Times” appreciation, is, inci-
dentally, on terms of close friendly intimacy with
Franco.]
In the last days of May, 1926, a revolution broke
out in Portugal. It was the eighteenth that the country
had endured since the fall of the Monarchy and the
triumph of the Left-wing Republicans.
The Military Committee which had overthrown
the Government invited Dr. Oliveira Salazar, Pro-
fessor of Economics at the University of Coimbra, to
ABUSED PRIVILEGE
When Hitler made his recent bitter attack on the
British press it was, of course, represented in defence
that he “did not like the democracies to know what
was taking: place.” There has been no attempt in
any paper to refute a single one of the many specific
instances he grave of distortion of facts, in is repre-
sentation and outright lying:.
The privilege of freedom of the press is one of
the most higrhly prized possessions of democracy,
and one of the most outstanding: distinctions between
the countries which enjoy this form of government
and the dictator countries. But few will deny that
it is a privilege which in the last few years has
been grossly and dangerously abused.
This abuse is notably attacked by Lord London-
derry in his book “Ourselves and Germany” (Hale),
a digest from which is given in this issue under
the heading “Understanding Germany.” Expressing
the thoughts of many, like himself, staunch upholders
of the democratic as against totalitarian or any other
form of government, Lord Londonderry declares:—
The attacks wade on Italy and Germany by
our newspapers exceed in vituperation any criticism
by any of their contemporaries in those countries,
and yet we complain bitterly on every occasion
when some foreign press attack is made on our-
selves. After all, we should take grave exception
if Herr Hitler and his followers took upon them-
selves openly and publicly to attack any policy
which we have adopted at home or in our Empire
overseas. We should be inclined, and quite
rightly so, to tell Germany to mind her own busi-
ness. Therefore, however we may consider, as
individuals, certain features of Geman domestic
policy, l think it is unwise to express our feelings,
particularly by way of public speeches and news-
paper articles, in a manner calculated to be
offensive to the majority of Germans.
Lord Londonderry argues, in effect, that unless
we are content to go on drifting into a position in
which another war with Germany will be inevitable,
we must abandon the attitude that Germany is
always wrong and seek instead to try to under-
stand that country, on a similar line to that success-
fully taken with Italy.
The problem, as it touches the press, is probably
one which only a return to some sense of respon-
sibility in newspapers will solve. But if that should
fail, and hatreds fostered by newspaper vituperation
should lead to war, it will be poor consolation to
the men in the slaughter that they are upholding the
inestimable press privilege of freedom of provocation
and abuse.


tes;
3998.
%H\
iL\ £
\\m
I
c V
TRY THEM ON FOR APPEARANCE.
Wear them for comfort.
There’s one thing about an Abbey Riding Boot, it feels as good as it looks.
The high-polishing, strong calf is soft and supple, moulding to the foot like
leather half its weight Made in Brown Willow Calf in full sizes. Leather-lined
throughout. Brown, Price 39/6.
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholjy in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: IS Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
become Minister of Finance. He agreed, unwillingly,
and was glad to return to Coimbra after five days of
office.
But his personality and abilities had left a deep
impression in Lisbon. On April 27, 1928, he accepted
the same office, and he has held it for ten years—
during nearly six of which he has also been Prime
Minister. His success has astonished all who remem-
ber the history of the Portuguese Republic, which is
so often and so conveniently forgotten by the critics
in this and other countries of the dictatorship of
President Carmona.
Dr. Salazar narrowly escaped assassination last
year; conspirators supported by Spanish politicians
of the Left have attempted to overthrow him and the
regime which he represents by violence. They have
failed because the great majority of the Portuguese
people admire his character and have faith in his dis-
interested leadership.
Dr. Salazar dislikes publicity, speeches and
applause, and has never been seen in uniform. His
modesty, however, cannot veil his great services to
Portugal. A country which had only balanced its
Budget twice since 1854 has enjoyed 10 successive
surpluses. The floating debt has been extinguished.
The currency is stable. The public services have been
vastly improved. Good roads have taken the place of
cart-tracks ; new schools and important public works
have been constructed. Unemployment has been
greatly diminished and valuable social reforms have
been introduced by this modest statesman, who has
made to study in doubt, to realise in faith” his motto.
“Isolation Sounds Rude.”
[With what’s left of the League of Nations meeting
to end the Abyssinian farce —a good many member
nations having recognised the conquest in advance —
and cables reporting “News-Chronicle” twaddle about
“unprecedented resentment against the British Govern-
ment” for moving in the matter, those in favor of war
for “collective security” have been airing their discredited
views afresh. U.S.A., as indicated in this digest of a
Saturday Evening Post” leader, has its share of these
dangerous crusaders.]
The conviction that the United States should join
with Great Britain, France and perhaps Russia in
some kind of drive for Comrade Stalin’s “collective
security” and against ruthless force in Europe is grow-
ing in U.S.A., even though Great Britain has declined
to take any positive action in behalf of the collective
security of the British Empire.
We have not yet heard that we must Save the
World for Democracy once more ; but Miss Dorothy
Thompson, the columnist, did say that unless we did
something along this line by two o’clock on the after-
noon of March 18, when Herr Hitler was making a
speech, it might be too late to save ourselves, and
too bad for everybody.
.After that crisis passed and the world continued
to revolve, others kept on urging action for collective
security. So it looks as though we’ll be hearing the
Save the World for Democracy cry with all its old-
time fervor soon again.
The hubbub over collective security aroused b\
the Now or Never! columnists and others has obfus-
cated what collective security really means to us, and
what isolation means to us.
Collective security means, we are told, our par-
ticipation in collective action to prevent war. But
that is not what it really means. If we join with others
in trying to prevent those peoples who love dictators
and believe in the glory of war from going to war,
we are sending ourselves an invitation to join in the
next war.
Isolation sounds rude—we won’t join up with our
neighbors; we’re unfriendly. But it means simply
that, with the strongest navy in our history to guard
our coasts, and an adequate army, we mind our own
business and keep out of everybody else’s wars.
But the peacemakers say: “We can’t keep out.
This modern world is too small, with its ever more
rapid communication and transportation. We are too
close to the other countries of the world to keep out.”
That’s theory, and it hasn’t been proved. And
the folly of preventive wars has been proved. But
even if it were true that it is impossible to keep out
of the next war, what is wrong with keeping out of
it as long as we can?
Understanding Germany.
ICondensed from Ourselves and Germany, by Lord
Londonderry, former British Air Minister and one
who knows Germany and its leaders intimately, and has
closely studied this most pressing of international
problems.]
The situation with regard to Germany has grown
steadily worse. Herr Hitler’s conciliatory gestures
have been disregarded and his offers brushed on one
side, and German armaments have been rapidly built
on a model which those who claim to speak with
authority in the Reich assert is designed to make that
country invincible on land and sea and in the air.
The time may well be not far off when the Germans
will be able to .dispense with the hope of any under-
standing with us and to strike out along a course
frankly antagonistic to Britain.
It will only be by sympathetic understanding that
this strained relationship will be remedied. There are
many points of similarity between our two countries,
and there is a racial connection which in itself estab-
lishes a primary friendly feeling between us which
cannot be said to exist between us and the French.
Any consideration of German claims and desires must
be judged from a dispassionate point of view in which
the different stages of privation, defeat, revolution
and distinctly unfair treatment must be considered
and their bearing on subsequent events properly
assessed.
The suggestion made often here that Germany
is thirsting for revenge, that she is impatiently waiting
until her rearmament has reached a further stage so
as to fall upon her neighbors, is purely fantastic. I
would venture to say that there is a deeper horror of
war in Germany even than in this country.
It is true that we must have a close understand-
ing with the French, but this does not impose on us
complete concurrence in French international policy.
Our Foreign Office appears to condone the associa-
tions with Communism and Bolshevism through our
affiliation with France, while paying but little regard
to the robust attitude of Germany, Italy and Japan,
which wholeheartedly condemn Communism and Bol-
shevism. Bolshevism is a world-wide doctrine which
aims at the internal disruption of all modern systems
of government with the ultimate object of what is
termed World Revolution.
We may think we can ignore Bolshevism as incap-
able of disturbing our political equilibrium because the
conditions in which Bolshevism prospers are practically
non-existent in this country. We fail to recognise that
the present condition of Spain is mainly the result
of Red machinations. We console ourselves with the
reflection that, owing to the conservatism of the
French peasant, Bolshevism will not prevail to any
serious extent among the urban industrial population
of France, although the Communist representation in
the Chamber has increased to the number which Herr
Hitler prophesied to me over two years ago.
Belgium is showing signs of Bolshevism, and Ger-
many sees herself surrounded by Bolshevist countries
and militarily and economically hemmed in with what
may well be disastrous consequences. We watch this
movement with a strange equanimity. We throw in
our weight under “non-intervention” on the side of
the Reds in Spain ; Belgium and France do the same,
and we wonder why Germany and Italy appear more
truculent and challenging as their strength and prestige
increase.
The great mass of people in this country fail to
see that Herr Hitler is rearming Germany for the
same reason as the Prime Minister and the Govern-
ment are propounding the policy of rearmament here.
They are aiming at maintaining both their security and
the power to speak with authority in international
affairs. Germany remembers that when she was weak
her claims and protests were wholly disregarded.
Why not revise treaties and get old grievances
out of the way? Why not make up our minds
that we condemn and oppose the international
doctrine of Communism? Why not definitely assert
the sphere of influence in the world we propose to
maintain, and carry out a realist policy in Europe
which should not be, as it now appears, a querulous
mistrust of every German aspiration? We could then
demand from the Germans a precise definition of
their policy, and this would change the whole atmo-
sphere of foreign politics. It could not be changed
for the worse, and there is a chance, and a good
chance, of a change for the better.
If the German demands are of such a character
that the other Powers cannot accede to them, then we
must prepare for the worst and seek another modus
vivendi, such as a return to the old conception of the
“Balance of Power” to preserve peace —though it will,
in all probability, be a peace ringed by bayonets. On
the other hand, a real understanding between the
Great Powers primarily of Europe, if brought about
by this method, should be capable of producing a
permanent limitation of armaments. Furthermore,
if this arrangement is implemented by the determina-
tion that there shall be no more war, a great achieve-
ment for the repose and security of the peoples of the
world will have been realised.
If Great Britain and Germany continue to stand
apart, then I must confess that the chance of achiev-
ing this object appears to me to be very remote. But
if we can sink our differences with Germany and
come to some permanent understanding with her, I
am convinced that France and Italy could be per-
suaded to join in, and that between them these four
Great Powers would have a real opportunity of realis-
ing those great but hitherto elusive ideals of inter-
national security and peace.
The time at our disposal is getting very short.
A Soviet Spy Story.
(Condensed from court case report in Manchester
“Guardian.”)
Mrs. Stan Harding, woman journalist, who was
sentenced to death in Russia for alleged espionage,
was plaintiff in a libel action settled in the King’s
Bench Division on terms, including payment of £lOOO
as damages. The action arose out of a book of
memoirs entitled Born for Trouble, by Mrs. Mar-
guerite Harrison.
Mr. G. O. Slade, for Mrs. Harding, said the
action had been settled as between his client and the
defendant publishers and printers [Victor Gollancz,
Ltd., and Camelot Press, Ltd.]. In her book Mrs.
Harrison described experiences as a secret service
agent in Germany and Russia, and repeated false
political charges which had alfeady brought Mrs.
Harding a long term of imprisonment and the nar-
rowest possible escape from death when visiting
Russia as a newspaper correspondent.
These charges were proved to be utterly false,
with the result that the Soviet Government, on the
demand of the British Government, paid an indemnity
to Mrs. Harding. The British Government’s demand
for reparation was based explicitly on Mrs. Harding’s
innocence of the charges made against her, the
plaintiff having never, at any time or anywhere, en-
gaged in intelligence work.
Mrs. Harding, who had been “Daily News” cor-
respondent in Germany, went from that country to
Russia, with the safe conduct of the Russian Gov-
ernment, as the accredited representative of the
“World” newspaper, of New York. She was arrested
on arrival in Moscow, the charges being those the
author had repeated in the book—espionage for the
British Government and collaboration with Mar-
guerite Harrison in intelligence work.
Notwithstanding the plaintiff’s repeated denials
of Marguerite Harrison’s charges, she was con-
demned to death, and though execution of the sen-
tence was withheld she was subjected to five months’
imprisonment, chiefly in solitary confinement under
conditions of great hardship, in the Lubyanka—the
headquarters prison of the Cheka. She remained
there until her accuser was herself imprisoned for
supplying the Russian authorities “with absolutely
false and misleading information.”
Mrs. Harrison had gone to Russia as an Ameri-
can secret service agent, had been caught some
months before, and had secured her release by con-
senting to assist the Soviet police in espionage on
British, American and other visitors to Russia. Mrs.
Harding was liberated under the trade agreement
between Russia and Britain.
The British Government’s demand for reparation
from Russia was put forward in two Note?, and
finally was made one of the five points of a ten-day
ultimatum to Russia. The Soviet Government paid
Mrs. Harding £3OOO in reparation.


COMING TO ENGLAND?
STAY IN THE HEART OF LONDON.
Choose wisely . . . the MAPLETON . . . in
the midst of theatreland and fashionable
shopping centres. 100 luxurious bedrooms,
each with bathroom and ’phone. Restaurant
open 8 a.m.-12 p.m. Favourable terms for
Overseas visitors. Sefkl for full details.
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Baehflat, Lesquare, London.
Every Razor
Fully Ouairanteed.
BENGALL” RAZORS
Will Last
for Years.
The Barber’s Friend.
Full Hollow-ground Blade.
NEARLY 200 YEARS OLD.
Obtainable from. All Wholesale
and Retail Stores. ’
176*
Combining
ali tne latest improvements.
Specially File-cut and gimpted for firm handling.
SOUND ADVICE, based on an extensive
variety of practical experience of over 40
years, given on Business, Personal or Financial
Matters that I am competent to deal with.
Fees are in proportion to the importance of
the matter involved. No Advice, No Charge.
EVERARD HEDEMANN,
Expert General Adviser,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6115.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Aureus can carry weight, and is no
mean sprinter when at the top of his
form; but he doesn’t often get that
way. Saturday was one of the occa-
sions, and a division of the Flying Welter
at Moorefield was the race. The Hawkes-
bury-trained animal won, but half a
dozen others made an exciting finish of
it. Heads away were Fernacre and
Strathisla, and Night of Love, Cinzano,
Diatter, Publicity and Salamyne were
close up.
As the thing was run, Fernacre (7 to
1) looked unlucky to be beaten. Still,
Aureus, after missing the jump, could
not get near the rails, and was forced off
the track at the home turn. He was
backed from sevens to threes. Moore-
field is his favorite course: he has won
four races there.
A run on the rails in the straight en-
abled the Warwick-Farm-trained Correct
(8 to 1) to win the second division from
Roginer and Robin Hood. Correct, who
looked as if he could be improved,
dashed to the lead when Samurai ran
off at the home turn. Old King Moab
ran on strongly. Cleopatra, a quiet tip,
was never sighted.
Gay Chou met a poor lot of gallopers
in the Rockdale Mile,'find was at a sur-
prising price—threes. It was his second
start in the colors of his new owner, W.
Devon, a Maorilander. Ted Bartle
took Gay Chou to the front from the
beginning. Wayside tried to pace it with
him, but the Newcastle galloper was
beaten at the half-mile pole, and Linklet
and Imbiber filled the places.
Gay Chou cost Devon 475 guineas,
and the new man must have got it back
in one pop.
Jamieson, who now trains Gay Chou,
threw in for a good win on Dutiful in
the Moorefield Handicap. He reckoned
without Gold Spark and the Rosehill ap-
prentice Watterson. A. G. Papworth, who
owns and trains Gold Spark, told the lad
to go to the front and stay there. He
did, and Gold Spark came home lengths
ahead of Dutiful and Jovial Son. Tuckiar
finished on well in fourth place. Gold
Spark started at 10 to 1. She and Correct
are three-year-olds: the colt is by Ram-
pion-Time Will Tell; the filly by Scin-
tillation-Just Gold, both imported.
Mountain Maid, owned and trained at
Newcastle and ridden by the northern
jockey Reynolds, had no difficulty in
beating Pashalic and Bianconi in the
Kogarah Stakes. There were only the
three runners; Mountain Maid was at
fours, Bianconi was always at odds on.
He had won easily at Kensington in
better company on the Wednesday ; at
Moorefield, though riding hard all the
way, McCarten couldn’t get a gallop out
of him. The crowd roared, and the
stewards instructed the vet. to inspect the
horses’s bandages. He reported that
everything was in order.
Manaos (2 to 1) outclassed his field in
the colts and geldings’ division of the
Juvenile. Bofield (6 to 4) treated her
opponents in the fillies’ division in a
similar style. Although Nuffield has been
hailed as a champion, the 1937-38 young-
sters, taken by and large, are not as good
as those of the previous season.
* * * *
The owner of Bianconi is a Queens-
land lady who figured in the papers a
year or two ago as an heiress. She is of
an enthusiastic disposition, and her out-
spoken commendation of her trainer and
jockey when her colors are carried first
past the post made racegoers wonder how
she would react should the stewards ever
question the running of one of her horses.
However, she seems to have taken the
Bianconi inquiry philosophically.
The attendance at Moorefield was
much larger than usual. On the previous
day the police had “proclaimed” three
Sydney hotels, alleging that they were
haunts of s.p. bookmakers and bettors,
and on Saturday morning they added a
fourth to the list. Other hotelkeepers,
becoming alarmed, restricted the issue of
betting information over the wireless,
and, as a result, many good punters were
missing from their usual haunts, a thou-
sand or two going to the races. Tipsters
are now wondering what will befall them.
* * * *
A locally-bred gelding, Dartford, by
Petunia-Wairakei, won the Adelaide
Cup. He is owned and trained by Jack
Harvey, who paid £4O for him as a
yearling. Partly because Elliot had been
engaged to ride him, Dartford was
strongly fancied a day or two before the
race ; then, because he started coughing,
he drifted in the market till the price
was 15 to 1. He shook off his ailment,
and in the race shook off the three-year-
old filly Silept Tip, owned and trained
by the veteran horseman Connell, and
Grecian Princess, a Manfred mare, in a
rousing finish.
Like Elliot, Ray Wilson had made the
trip from Melbourne, in his case to ride
the Cup favorite, Irving, who finished
fourth. The next race was the Accession
Handicap, and for Wilson and Stanley
Kite, a leading Adelaide horseman, it was
fated to be their last.
Kite’s mount, The Leader, came down
and Trimercian, ridden by Wilson, toppled
over him, Bromley, on Lady Normandie,
and Higson, on Jeune Star, being in-
volved in the fall.
Spectators rushing from the flat to
render what aid they could found Wilson
dead and Kite dying —he lived only
half an hour. Higson had concussion
and Bromley’s right arm was broken.
Adelaide has never seen a worse race-
course accident. Oddly enough, the
only (Casualty among the horses was
Acceptance, ridden by Medhurst; though
not in the smash Acceptance dropped
dead in front of the grandstand.
* * * *
Pamelus was exceptionally well treated
with 9st. 91b. in the Imperial Handicap
at Ascot (Vic.) on Saturday. He won
the Oakleigh Plate in February with a
similar impost and had much stronger
opposition then than in his week-end
engagement.
At first punters were disinclined to
support a horse that hadn’t raced for
two months, and Pamelus eased to
“fours” in a field of nine. Then the
remembrance came that H. Duke’s gal-
loper invariably acquitted himself well
“first up,” and the pigeon-toed stallion
from Queensland firmed until the bookies
quoted 2 to 1 with a take-it-or-leave-it
air. Pamelus squeezed home by a
mere head from Spinifex (25 to 1), but
he ought to have got there by lengths
in time much faster than lmin. 13sec.
Through a flat-footed beginning
Pamelus Was only fifth at the half-mile
pole and a number of lengths behind
Sweet Memories and Song of Songs, the
pacemakers. He made a magnificent
run on the bend. Head on chest, the
favorite wasted effort while his jockey
was groping for a passage in the straight.
Norman Creighton tardily pulled Pamelus
to the outside and over the last 50yds.
he travelled like Clapp’s “Spirit of Pro-
gress.”
In the Futurity Stakes and C. M. Lloyd
Stakes at the autumn meetings Pamelus
couldn’t get within cooee of Ajax, but
now he looks capable of at least keeping
the champion moving up to a mile.
Pamelus possibly will have a cut at the
Doomben (Q.) Newmarket on June 25.
It is worth £3150. He won this event as
a three-year-old, carrying Bst. 131 b. and
conceding Regular Bachelor nearly a
stone.
Spinifex (Boyarin - Bindweed), who
finished such a close second to Pamelus,
is raced by his breeder, “A. Wooliscroft.
The dam gave C. J. Boyd a fatal fall
over hurdles at Caulfield some years ago,
and “Wooliscroft,” a kingpin in the in-
dustry of jam manufacture, temporarily
retired from the turf. Twenty years ago
this owner landed an Australian Cup
with Defence, the hardiest horse that
Carbine ever sired.
After ill-luck in running, Baryta, next
in demand to Pamelus at 4 to 1, ran
third, a length behind Spinifex. His
trainer, T. J. Hayes, was aggrieved at
Baryta receiving only half &. stone from
the topweight; but an apprentice allow-
ance of 71b. was claimed by T. Meagher.
Hayes is so impressed with the gallop-
ing ability of Baryta that he went over
specially to the Randwick yearling sales
and gave 625 guineas for a half-sister.
Baryta is by The Night Patrol; his rela-
tive’s sire is Constant Son. Both were
bred by Percy Miller. Their owner,
T. Bennett, is captain of the steamer
Lutana, trading between Melbourne and
Tasmania.
Giant Killer, the four-year-old gelding
with which Bill Burke won the Trial
Handicap at Ascot, is aptly named, being
a son of David. Burke gave 70gns. at
the sales for a half-sister to Giant Killer,
the sire in this instance being Friarsdale.
These thoroughbreds were bred at
Widgiewa (N.S.W.) by Otway Falkiner,
whose colors were carried to victory by
David in the Sydney Cup of 1923.
Showing natural aptitude for jumping
—it was only his second effort over the
battens in public—Giant Killer impressed
by inflicting a length defeat on the con-
sistent Peerie. At 9 to 2 he shared second
favoritism with Sarda. Third place was
poorly filled by Third Star (12 to 1).
The 7-to-4 favorite, Le Grand, gave a
thoroughly wretched display.
Burke has entered Giant Killer for
the G.N. Hurdle, in which he is also
represented by Bridge of Mar, David
Quex and Nevizes. He won the event
in 1927 for T. M. Burke with Coybeau.
The ’chaser Green Cape is in Burke’s
string, and he has been schooling Fabric
for service over obstacles.
Members of the V.R.C. committee were
present in force at Ascot. The chairman,
H. Alan Currie, expressed frank delight
at Eurasia (Equator-Lilloise), a mare of
his own breeding, running second to
another 15-to-l chance, Glodomar, in
the first division of the Claremont Trial.
On the tracks Eurasia is a great galloper,
and George Jones, her trainer, has all
along declared that what she needs is
racing experience.
Second division of the Claremont Trial
went to On Time (7 to 1), owned and
trained by Vin O’Neill, who prepared
Spearfelt for his victories in the Mel-
bourne Cup and Australian Cup. Minor
placegetters were Con Naru (twenties)
and Shining Star (tens). The 9-to-4
favorite, Poldean, shaped ingloriously, but
Sarcendale (close fourth) will make
amends soon.
Fryer made a “killing” for Mrs. J. J.
Kitson with Dannevirke (Colossus-
Tripling) in the juvenile event. Danne-
virke shortened from sevens to 7-to-2
favoritism, and scored easily from Re-
quest and Sir Rona. Husband of owner
races that good youngster Larissa,
trained by Frank Godby.
Leading all the way, Haughty Stare
(sixes) had a comfortable win from Plec-
trum (16 to 1) and Peggy O’Neil (14 to
1) in the middle-distance Granville Han-
dicap. Second and third horses were
imported from Ireland and are by the
same sire, Bulger.
Skidmore had a disappointing ride
on Dignitary, favorite for the Granville
Handicap, but he had lengths to spare
at the finish of the Jeffcott Welter on
Gold Token, first choice of backers at
7to 2. Gold Token was followed home
by Testudo (fours) and Arnshire (6 to 1).
* * * *
Prospects for the winter jumping
season in Victoria are good. Entries for
the G.N. Hurdle (July 2) number 77 —
10 more than last year ; and those for
the Steeple have risen from 73 to 80 —
only one short of the record in 1929.
In that year the stake was £5OOO. The
value is down to £2500 now, with the
first “leg” of the double worth £2OOO.
Late L. K. S. (“Scobie”) Mackinnon,
who for many years was V.R.C. chair-
man, had a passion for jumpers. He
took more pride in Kentle winning the
G. Hurdle than in the Sydney Cup
victory of Realm, the Melbourne Cup
triumph of Kingsburgh, or even in
Woorak’s wonderful wins.
Akanree (Comedy King-Lady Rath),
who figures among the G.N. Hurdle
aspirants, hasn’t raced since he finished
third to Sixteen Annas and Brilliant Son
on June 20, 1936. Brilliant Son (Con-
stant Son-Valwyne), for whom Harry
Boan, of Perth, paid big money as a
yearling, went on to get second in
Pooley Bridge’s Australian Hurdle.
The Easter success of Brilliant Son
in the Corangamite Cup shows that his
usefulness continues, but it remains to
be seen whether Akanree will stand a
preparation. Akanree and Sir Muslin
must be the last of Comedy’s King’s
progeny to carry a racing bridle. Sir
Muslin dead-heated with El Damaroyal
over the Williamstown fences on Easter
Monday and probably will line up for
the National Steeple.
* * * #
South Australian owners are likely to
be well represented in the Nationals.
Their candidates include Dress Suit (win-
ner of the last Australian Hurdle), Black-
ford (who established a world’s record
over the battens), Gnair (winner of the
Great Eastern in 1936), and Woodlace
and Last End, each of whom has been
successful in the V.R.C. National Steeple.
Last End had a steeple win at Morphett-
ville on May 7, and may reasonably be
depended on to see the post at Fleming-
ton on July 9, but three separate efforts
have been made in vain to bring Gnair
to a condition of recovered soundness.
And Jack Holt could do no good with
Woodlace when C. B. Kellow leased that
gelding a season ago.
* * * *
The Stud Book shows that Calfly is
rising 14 years —-not 15, as his owner,
H. Farmer, believed. Farmer has shown
high faith in the old fellow to enter him
for the G.N. Steeple, but Calfly hasn’t
been overworked. Seated in a jinker,
Farmer leads him to the Mentone tracks.
Weight never is placed on the gelding’s
back except when compulsory.
* * * *
His breeder, the late L. K. S.
Mackinnon, expected big things of
Mooramong (Ronsard-Ble d’Or). After
Mackinnon’s death the gelding was
bought by Hal Laidlaw, but remained in
Jack Holt’s stable until, through poor-
ness of form, he passed into other hands.
As a six-year-old Mooramong has struck
good provincial form. He won the rather
important Wangoom Handicap at Warr-
nambool, and followed up that achieve-
ment by capturing the Forest Handicap
at Ballarat on May 11. Mooramong was
in less demand than Jacasse, whom he
defeated by a neck.
* ■ * * *
Maritime (Cape Horn-Kakawai), who
landed the Encourage Plate at Avenel
(Vic.), has had an unusual career. On
Boxing Day, 1930, when owned by W.
R. Kemball, he finished sixth in the
Great Northern Foal Stakes, won by
Ammon Ra, at Auckland. Badly burned
in a stable fire, Maritime was given away
for use as a hack. Until a few weeks
ago he had never appeared on a race-
course, and the Avenel success was
achieved at his third start. If he has
taken kindly to jumping, a horse of this
type may have to be reckoned with in
the. National Hurdle.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Richards Outs Actis
Ron Richards (12st.) outed American
Ray Actis (11st. 1141 b.) with a right to
the jaw inside a minute of their open-
(iContinued on page 52.)
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Flying Handicap: King’s Head ;
next, Arabia.
Farm Handicap: Perimond ; next,
Kinsfolk.
Welter Handicap: Rosmead ;
next, Kai Tere.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Bay View Handicap: Black Mac ;
next, Dunloe.
Gellibrand Handicap: Regular
Bachelor; next, Parodier.
Beach Welter: Barham; next
Riddle.


PAGES FROM THE HUTUWAI
FAMILY ALBUM
»■*
l 9»
9tS
nrt> er
So v e
s ev e j® cOl*'
Nit*
»W VtV «oW «*
£‘i«s*s*rwa ,o 8
ul o^' tS sb«
bSSatKT ;£•, „«» ;
has
E »W' ***** un^
,Yve '“a ' cs S-A b Het set
**s?s ass*
SSS|
SVo°a ., *‘ s oi,
ffSStfJSsS's
ra»
a,w
t«4 sbe i tooS t***? serves t
sieeV- a «**?*&»
*Sr
pan seC evet
«S%ST
s ne
\ite
C?eS;
S®*— V d and
tfS^AS** 0
tßtila'S
set
t)VJ
pesasgs
to
titrr
csfe> &***
Gtf^ 1
CO^ N
SIRS
from
Read these letters
grateful Australians . . .
some of the many thousands who thank Hutuwai for the
Radiant Health they now enjoy! What Hutuwai has done
for others ... it can also do for you! Hutuwai is HEALTH!
CHILD NOW WELL AFTER ARTHRITIS
Amazing letters that
PROVE the GENUINE
l Health-restoring Power of
I HUTUWAI Tonic
VI HAS MADE A NEW MAN OF ME!”
A. PADROTH
I, AARON PADROTH, of MILE END ROAD,
ROUSE HILL, in tho State of New South
Wales, do hereby solemnly and sincerely de-
clare that two years ago I was stricken
down with Rheumatoid Arthritis. I was a
complete cripple and many of my joints
were locked. I could not get out of bed.
The pain was so severe that it often made
me cry all night. At the end they told me
they could do nothing for me.
Then I saw in the papers about your won-
derful Hutuwai Tonic. I had 32 bottles
and it has made a new man of me. To-day
I can get about again as well as ever, al-
though I am 66 years old. I can even do a
bit in the garden and chop wood. I advise
all who suffer to always have a bottle of
Hutuwai in the house. Hutuwai has over-
come my constipation, which had worried
me badly for years. They gave me three
weeks to live, but I beat them after all. I
make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue
of the provision of the “Oaths Act, 1900.”
A. PADROTH.
Subscribed and declared at SYDNEY this
24th day of February, one thousand nine
hundred and thirty-eight, before me.
E. G. McLEOD. J.P.
MARY PETHYBRIDGE
BROOKLYN, HAWKESBURY RIVER,
N.S.W.,
33rd October, 1937.
Dear Sirs, —
With farther reference to my little girl
who had suffered so severely with RHEU-
MATOID ARTHRITIS, you will be pleased
to hear that after twelve months of im-
proved health through taking your Hutuwai
Remedy, she is quite well and strong and
the most vigorous and healthy specimen you
would wish to meet.
She is a regular Tom_ Boy, and tears up
and down the hills as if nothing had ever
been wrong with her. She also shows a
remarkable degree of intelligence for a
child so young; and I can only thank this
marvellous Remedy called Hutuwai for hav-
ing proved such a remarkable and genuine
medicine; and anyone visiting the Hawkes-
bury District can call and see the child for
themselves, and verify these facts personally.
Yours very gratefully.
(Signed) (Mr. and Mrs.) M. A. Pethybridge.
HAD ARTHRITIS Is Now Daily Improving
MISS LUCY ADAIR
North Sydney, N.S.W.,
17th February, 1938.
Dear Sirs, —
As a result of the amazing benefit I have
received from the result of taking your EX-
CELLENT REMEDY, “HUTUWAI,” I feel it
is my duty not only to tell you, but to tell
the world of the benefits I have received
from taking same.
For over two years I have been a patient
for a combination of NERVES, NEURITIS,
and ARTHRITIS. I GRADUALLY BECAME
CRIPPLED, and COULD SCARCELY WALK,
so much so that, of necessity. I was com-
pelled to refuse work.
Friends advised me to try “Hutuwai,” and
ultimately in a very half-hearted manner 1
did so. The FIRST BLESSING I received
from same WAS NATURAL SLEEP —some-
thing I had not enjoyed for many weary
weeks. As a result, I naturally felt better,
and continued taking “Hutuwai,” finding
myself DAILY IMPROVING, and becoming
LESS CRIPPLED, and able to get about once
again.
I had occasion to be re-examined by a
Doctor, and a few days later was informed
that I was NOT NOW SUFFICIENTLY IN-
CAPACITATED FOR WORK. This most
gratifying result is the outcome of taking
about five bottles of your famous remedy
Yours faithfully and gratefully,
(Miss) LUCY ADAIR.
Witness: E. G. McLeod. J.P.
PRAYED FOR DEATH IS AGAIN FIT
■*
* ;
m
mm
MRS. E. M. WOODWARD
EASTWOOD, N.S.W.,
11th November, 1937.
Dear Sirs,—
I cannot praise your Hutuwai Tonic enough
for the way it has restored my health. 1
was AN ABSOLUTE COT CASE WITH
RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. I was a patient
at Hospital, and for nearly three months
was unable to do anything at all for my-
self. The pain was so bad it used to make
me scream. I used to pray that I would
die before morning. All my limbs were
terribly swollen: and I had to have my wed-
ding ring filed oft; words cannot convey to
yon how bad I was.
Nothing did me any good until my son
got me a bottle of Hutuwai! After a short
course of this marvellous Tonic I began
to improve and to regain my health and
strength again until to-day I am as well as
ever I was—in fact, I have only JUST FIN-
ISHED A BIG WASHING AND STILL FEEL
FIT AND FULL OF ENERGY.
Congratulations and success to Hutuwai.
Yours thankfully,
(Signed) MRS. E. M. WOODWARD.
BEWARE COLDS and’FLU!
Take HUTUWAI regularly and build up your resistance against colds
and ’flu. If you are suffering now from either of these complaints start
taking HUTUWAI to-day . . . you will be surprised how quickly you
will shake it off.
df
HUTUWAI contains the live
juice of HERBAL PLANTS
and must do good to all
who drink it!
Scientists have discovered that Herbal Plant Juices and
Human Blood are closely alike; and, when taken by
human beings, Plant Juices change easily into . valuable
Hormones, which build a healthy body. Hutuwai Natural
Tonic contains the Juice of Herbal Plants. Hutuwai helps
to drive out the injurious acids and poisons from the system,
and eradicates aches and pains . . . new vigour is furnished to
the nervous system . . . the brain becomes more active and
clear, and the body glows with vitality and vigour. Hutuwai
will give you steady nerves and an excellent appetite, and you
will sleep well. Hutuwai is different ... it is genuine. Head-
aches disappear. Colour is restored to the cheeks. Your
friends will tell you how well you look, and you will take
a renewed interest in life. In the Hutuwai Herbal Plant
Juices Nature supplies the minerals and vitamins necessary
to keep the human mechanism in perfect working order
. . . and so these vital life elements are made available to
you in Hutuwai . ■. . in Nature’s own way . . . thus
ensuring full natural medicinal value.
For NERVES & RHEUMATISM
m
'M*
TO
'
NATURAL
TONIC
(Pronounce HOO-TOO-WY)
is sold and recommended by CHEMISTS and
STOKES throughout Australia!
IF UNOBTAINABLE LOCALLY, 3/- and 4/<i
PER BOTTLE DIRECT FROM HUTUWAI
DISTRIBUTING CO., DEPT. 85, 210 GEORGE
STREET. SYDNEY, or 485 BOURKK STREET,
MELBOURNE, Cl, Postage 1/- per bottle extra.


The New REMINGTON .22 cal. AUTOLOADER
built in the modern manner.
sa
MODEL 241 “SPEEDMASTER”
Shoots as fast as you can pull the trigger.
NEW—Longer, heavier, 24 inch gracefully tapered barrel.
NEW—Sturdy, durable locking device assures rigid assembly like
solid-frame rifle.
NEW—Semi-beavertail fore-end, perfectly shaped for steady
aiming.
NEW—Step-adjustable sporting rear sight.
NEW—Larger, heavier stock.
NEW—Specially shaped pistol grip for correct and comfortable
holding.
NEW—Shotgun butt of large, balanced design, corrugated to
prevent slipping.
Chambered for .22 Short Cartridges only or for .22 Long Rifle Cartridges
only. Short magazine holds 15 Cartridges. Long Rifle magazine holds 10
Cartridges. Weight, 6lbs £B/10/-
Ask your dealer. For full information, write to
D. D. BRYANT,
Australian Representative, Box 686 E, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Take the Nightmare
out of
Night Driving
with
BOSCH
HEADLIGHT INSERTS
Sole Agents: PYROX PTY., LTD.
97 Palmer Street, East Sydney.
Relieve Eczema
and Itching Skin
|F you suffer from Eczema or other
itching skin complaints, don’t delay
proper treatment another day. When
care is not taken, there is a tendency
for the continued irritations and un-
sightly eruptions of the skin to spread
and become chronic. Doan's Oint-
ment will give you quick relief, for it
penetrates to the true skin where the
inflammation lies. It is antiseptic,
healing and quickly allays the irrita-
tion. Be sure you get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
Doan s Ointment
air engagement at Sydney Arena. Look-
ing in singularly good fettle, Ron greeted
the invader with a stinging left hook
immediately they shaped up. Another of
the same sort made the odds of twos
against the American sound like organ-
ised robbery. Actis then hit out with
both hands, Ron parried with ease, drove
the invader into the centre of the ring
and there let him have the right. Where-
upon darkness descended upon Actis and
a Stygian gloom upon the scattered
assemblage.
Prelims, included a 10-rounder for the
State light-heavy title, which Young
Oliver (12st. 51b.), of Newcastle, where
they must feed him on B.H.P. by-pro-
ducts, took from Les Brander (12st. 41b.)
by battering Brander into submission by
the end of the ninth. Much more in-
teresting—the best item of the night—•
was the showing of A 1 Walker (list. 21b.),
a promising youth, who, as usual, cleaned
up the opposition in the second round.
¥ * * *
Morgan Topples McLaughlin
For two-thirds of the way this was a
pretty fair fight; then, suddenly, it be-
came magnificent. Fought before a good
house in Leichhardt Stadium, it was a
variation on the old story of the veteran
against the up-and-coming, hard-hitting
youngster. The veteran in this case leapt
into the ring looking like an advertise-
ment for clean living. He has a fine,
open countenance, with nothing writ on
it by the battles he’s weathered. Nowa-
days he has a fist establishment at Wol-
longong, and only rarely fights.
Into the other corner stepped the
promising young Ron McLaughlin.
Possessed of the useful attribute of a
smallish head, dark-visaged, and looking
as if he’s never noticed that his name
has a laugh in it, he entered into this
engagement backed by a solid record of
victories. He tipped the beam at lOst.
3|lb.; Tod Morgan, 9st. llylb. The
difference was of nuggety solidness;
Morgan had the advantage of reach and,
decisively, of ringcraft.
Adjured to “watch that left hook of
his,” Morgan went out to meet the boy
raking the air with his own left. The
first round was mostly sizing-up. The
boy won it, though there was not much
in it; some nice hitting, nicer defence.
In the next, Morgan began to employ
his craft. He made the boy work every
second of the time, meanwhile once or
twice flashing out his right. Still, at the
end of it it was Morgan who showed first
sign of the battle —a small bump near
the left eye. The boy may have had
the better of the third, though Morgan
was still enticing him. In the fourth ref.
Lacey warned Morgan for holding,
pulling the boy into him and hitting.
Morgan did not offend again. In the
fifth he tested the boy’s jaw with a
rattling right. He used this same punch
effectively in the next three rounds, but
that side of the boy’s jaw was impervious
to it.
The fight started properly in the ninth.
Position of the scrappers obscured exactly
what happened, but what seemed to hap-
pen was that McLaughlin led and con-
nected well with a left rip to the body,
and lifting his head accidentally bumped
Morgan under the right eye. At all
events, Morgan was cut and bled pro-
fusely. Taking his chance, McLaughlin
went in fighting hard to enlarge on the
damage. What with that and Morgan’s
brushing the flow away with his gloves,
in a matter of seconds what had been
a boxing match became a gory mill.
They went to their corners, neither of
them a fit spectacle for the vestry-
meeting. Early in the next round Morgan
complained to the ref. about McLaugh-
lin’s head. Complaint waved aside,
Morgan began talking to McLaughlin,
apparently inviting the boy to come in
and mix it. Morgan’s face, with the
flow increasing, was in a sorry state. To
the boy it must have looked like the big
chance. He fought terrifically. He, and
everybody else, thought he had Morgan,
and he went in fiercely, without caution.
Next he was toppling backwards from
a perfect left hook, snapped on to him
at barely a foot range as he* moved in.
The back of his head clouted the can-
vas. A bloody-looking warrior, Morgan
stood, alert, watching the ref. bending
down counting. But there was no more
life, for the time being, in the boy
stretched out near the ropes.
A Ref. Sacked
At Melbourne Stadium ref. Merv Wil-
liams gave a points decision against the
local Micky Miller (Bst. 13|1b.) in favor
of American Claude Varner (9st. lilb.).
Thereupon the crowd let itself go in a
mob “demonstration”; a glass smashed
against the ring clock, a bottle lobbed
into the ring, the premises shook with
howling uproar. On top of that the
news was published that Stadiums, Ltd.,
had had Williams superseded as ref.
These so-called “demonstrations” are
getting too common altogether. They
are exhibitions of the lowest mob ele-
ments coming to the top, and the police
are slack on their job in not taking a
hand in them.
Ruffianism is probably an outcome of
the wrestling business. There are a few
fine wrestlers —like Leo Numa and
Sammy Stein —but the majority of
matches are direct appeals to mob sadism.
The mob naturally responds accordingly,
and it is a rare wrestling match that
doesn’t see a missile attack on the ring.
After a recent Sydney match the missiles
included an electric-light globe and full
tins of cigarettes. Mostly they are harm-
less rubbish; it is the license permitted
that is damaging. And evidently it is
spreading.
Apart from this aspect, dhe mob’s
judgment on a fight is a poor thing. Most
of it can’t see whether a blow is struck
or has been blocked, and most of it is
not strong in boxing judgment. Then
there’s a lot of betting on fights ; at every
scrap money can be heard barracking.
The bulk of it on the Miller-Varner scrap
would certainly have been on Miller.
The fact that Miller is the local lad
would have its effects, too.
Further, Miller fought one of his slug-
gish-looking fights. He shows an increas-
ing tendency to fight this way. He has
sound defence, and he is a fine counter-
puncher, and nowadays he’s largely con-
tent to let the other chap do the work.
For large stretches of this match he did
little but smother against Varner, put-
ting it all over Varner in counter-hitting.
The American’s performance was com-
paratively crude, but he did try to make
a fight of it.
Taking everything into consideration,
the action of superseding Williams —a
rattling good referee —looks miserable.
One paper asserts that John Wren had
a hand in it. Who told John Wren, the
“discoverer” of Bill Squires, that he was
a good judge of a fighter or of a fight?
Miller is reported as intending an in-
vasion of U.S.A. He has the fighting
ability to put up a great show against
anyone in the world at his weight, but
he’d lose nine fights out of ten fighting
as he fought Varner and has fought
others. He recently had the decision
given against him at Sydney Stadium in
similar circumstances. Joe Wallis is still
referee there. What’s wrong with Miller
is that his training diet needs the addi-
tion of large helpings of dynamite sauce.
* * * *
Henneberry v. Sabatino
Fred Henneberry tipped the beam at
list. 3JJb.; Atilio Sabatino, list. lflb.
Staged at Sydney Stadium, this was their
second encounter, Sabatino having won
the first —a 10-rounder at the Sports
Ground —on points. That was a good
fight; this 12-rounder far excelled it.
This was a stirring, spirited affair. It
went within an ace of being a ring
classic. There were lulls in it, but they
were the lulls in the clash and fury of
a battle. Beginning keen and fast, it
worked up to a fierce climax in the
eleventh round. The twelfth was anti-
climax ; back to the manner of its begin-
ning. Between whiles it was stylish box-
ing alternating with clashes of stormy
toe-to-toe fighting.
From Henneberry it took on a char-
acter of boding ferocity. He has a fear-
some fighting presence. In the ring his
face sets in a fierce, relentless, predatory
expression. His small head weaving about
looks serpentlike ; gloves look small on
his hands ; they dart out in sharp, light-
ning stabs that fairly cut to their mark.
His skin and complexion are strikingly
pale, completing an extraordinary con-
trast against the broad cheerfulness and
swarthy hide of Sabatino.
This Puerto Rican youth is a model
for sculptors. Even in action he remains
a sturdy, compact figure moulded in
bronze. He looks like something that
has stepped off a pedestal. Beautifully
proportioned, with solid muscular de-
velopment all over, he has a pleasant ring
personality. He fights erect, in contrast
to Henneberry’s fast ducking and weav-
ing ; has perfect balance, and practises
such economy of footwork —again in
contrast to Henneberry’s swift move-
ments —that he even at times seems slow.
He is a determined and aggressive fighter
and powerful puncher, especially with
his right.
Everything else was in order: the
Stadium was packed; Joe Wallis ex-
celled himself in conducting the affray.
When in the splendid fourth, fifth,
seventh, tenth and eleventh rounds they
were close in, head to head, fighting,
easing tensely, fighting again, he left
them alone. Any but the past-master
Mr. Wallis is would have ruined the fight
by interference. The mob yelled for
just that. Joe —more hair on his chest—
he could now grow a mattress there —
had the sound sense to let ’em fight.
He looked a very pleased Joe when at
the end of the twelfth he was able to call
it a draw. Whereupon all the great host
of those that were there assembled arose
declaiming that, anyhow, it was a grand
fight. With a note of some relief in the
calling of those who had had their coin
on Fred.
Sabatino won the lighter early rounds,
delivered his share, and more, of power-
ful, clean punches, stood up to the test
in the fiercest clashes, now and then
made a drum of Henneberry’s head, and
fought notably well all the way. Henne-
berry fought more cleverly in flashes. In
these a vivid fighting figure, he had the
better of it in the high spots of the battle.
In close he used every punch in the
calendar —rips, uppercuts, hooks ; his de-
fence meanwhile masterly. He won the
best round of all, the eleventh, which was
magnificent. He landed the cleanest
punch of the night in the last round —a
straight left to the chin. But Sabatino
took it without a flinch, and was still
fighting well when the bell sounded.
Ins and Outs
The Australians downed Leicester by
an innings and 163 runs, the county
reaching 215 in its second try. The
star turn of the innings was a sound 105
by Dempster. McCormick improved and
took 3 for 54; Ward gathered 4 for 73,
O’Reilly 2 for 33.
Cambridge took a terrible hiding from
the Australians— by an innings and 425.
The ’Varsity won the toss and kicked ott
on a good wicket. With one exception
the Light Blue batsmen could do nothing
with The bowling; the exception was
Yardley, who played O Reilly, Waite and
Ward with ease. He went with his score
at 67 (out of 120), made in masterly style
and including 11 fours. O Reilly (5 for
55) had him caught in the slips; Waite
had a good day also (5. for 23).
After the unlucky Brown had been
“legged” for a duck, Fingleton and Brad-
man got going. Fingleton made a good
111, Bradman reached 137 before depart-
ing and then Badcock (186) and Hassett
(220 no) flayed the weak bowling. When
Bradman closed at 5 for 708, Waite was
n.o. with Hassett, his score being 30.
Rees-Davies with 2-214 showed the best
Cantab bowling figures.
The home side did better in the second
knock, reaching 163. Gibb carried his
bat through the innings for 80 n.o. He
is a ’keeper, and, like Yardley, figures
in the Yorkshire eleven. Yardley made
29 ; again O’Reilly got him. Ward had
his turn among the wickets (6 for 64)
and White improved (3 for 22).
“Fenner’s”: The huge score against
Cambridge has only been topped twice
by an Australian team. Forty-five years
ago Blackham’s team scored 843 against
Combined Oxford and Cambridge. The
other occasion was the 1930 Test at
Lord’s, when Australia piled up 729 for
six wickets and won by seven wickets.
* * * *
Marylebone selected three fast bowlers
in the team to meet Australia: Fames
and Stephenson, of Essex, and Smith, of
Middlesex. Eight amateurs were included
in the side, Edrich and Compton, both
youthful batsmen of promise and change
bowlers, supplying with Smith the pro-
fessional element.
In a way, the fast stuff was fairly
successful. Though Australia, batting
first, had 428 up for five wickets by
the end of the day, 257 of those were
made by Bradman without losing his
wicket. Of the others, Brown was bowled
by Fames for 5, and Fingleton, after a
useful partnership with Bradman, went
to Smith for 44. McCabe’s contribution
was a fast 33, but Badcock could do no
better than 14. Hassett batted quietly for
57, caught by ’keeper Maxwell off
Compton. Smith, with 2-100, was the
most successful of the English bowlers.
Smith did better still on Monday. He
got Bradman’s wicket when the captain
had raised his score to 278 (a six and
35 fours), Bradman being magnificently
caught by Robins ; then Smith (6 for
139) and Stephenson (2 for 112) went
through the rest. All out 502.
For M.C.C., Edrich (31) and Compton
(23) both shaped promisingly; but the
veteran Wyatt (84 n. 0.) was most at
home to the bowling of Fleetwood-Smith
(4 for 69), O’Reilly (3 for 42), and Mc-
Cormick (2 for 55). Having made only
214, M.C.C. had to follow on. Edrich
(53 n. 0.) and Compton (12 n. 0.) gave it
a good start.
* * * *
“Bramall Lane”: Some of the English
papers are trying hard to dig up the
old bodyline ill-feeling. One of them
has made McCormick’s erratic bowling
against Leicester a text for a warning
that this sort of thing may result in
Larwood and Voce resorting to “similar
tactics.” Also, it hints that McCormick
would do well to stand down in the
match against Notts, “where feeling is
still bitter.” Another expert offers the
perfect specimen of asininity by sug-
gesting that McCormick should put him-
self under the tuition of Larwood to


An Amazing Exhibition
THE GREAT
INTERNATIONAL
MOTOR SHOW
Exhibition Buildings,
Melbourne,
May 19th-28th.
Important to every Man
and Woman because
TRANSPORT affects the
Cost of Living and the
Comforts of the Home.
Transport Costs are Im-
portant to every Wage
Earner.
Every branch of Trans-
port by Land, Sea and Air
is being Displayed.
See the work of Austra-
lian Artisans.
Admission 1/-, plus tax.
11 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Controlled by the —
Chamber of Automotive Industries
(H. W. Harrison, Secretary and
Organiser).
r.i ,
H a
SATISFIED!
We should say he was!
You will also be agreeably satisfied by the
smooth smoking and aromatic flavour these
Empire Tobaccos give. But more satisfying still
are the ridiculous prices at which we are able
to supply the public. These Empire-grown
tobaccos are manufactured at our own factory
and come direct to you—no middle profits.
A Briar or Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch,
Cigarette Lighter or Holder is included with all
orders over £l. ALL LINES.BOTH IN PIPE
AND CIGARETTE BLENDS.
Per lb.
Sweet crop, mild 6/3
All British, mild .. .. .. 6/3
Riverhead Gold, medium .. ~ 6/3
Old Peter, medium 6/3
Cavendish, strong 6/3
Beech Nut, medium 6/9
Africander, mellow and mild .. 6/9
Soldiers’ Own, mild 7/3
Normandie, medium 7/9
Winning Post, medium .. .. 8/-
Three Bells, strong 8/-
Bird’s Eye, medium 8/-
Latakia, in pipe only 10/-
White Lodge, medium .. .. 10/-
White Lodge, light 11/-
Barlock Flake, light and dark .. 8/6
Cahills, medium 10/9
Union Leader, medium .. .. 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium .. .. 11/-
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only .. 8/-
Special Heavy Extra 67-
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild 7/6
“Skipper,” medium . 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong 7/6
“Three Sailors” 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” .. .. 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks .. 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks .. 6/6
“P.M ” Dark Plug 6/6
Zig Zags 5 for 1/-
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add Gd. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
COMBINED GROWERS'
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
COMMERCIAL ROAD, VALLEY, BRISBANE
m
%
iI V 1
AIRZONE’S
wonderful Tele-tune Dial
The biggest single development in radio receivers for some years—
AS ACCURATE AS A PERFECT COMPASS. Tunes in your favourite
Stations MECHANICALLY and AUTOMATICALLY in any State —any-
where. All eight selector buttons can be adjusted in as many minutes
to suit any locality. A finger-tip on the button and the station you are
listening to is silenced—a flip of the dial . . . the finger tip off, and
the station you want is there—perfectly tuned in . . . AUTOMATICALLY.
m
.
II
o
D
E
L
597
DUAL
WAVE
★
Airzone Teletuning is the greatest single develop-
ment in radio in recent years . Its convenience is as
attractive as its precision is remarkable. You just cannot be "off
station", you just don't have to find your favourite Stations they
find themselves for you perfectly tuned, perfectly toned, and still
further enhancing the fact that "Airzone's tone is Airzone's own".
CASH
PRICE
28 Gns.
EASY
TERMS
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL RADIO DEALERS AND
MUSIC HOUSES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Designed and Manufactured by Airzone (1931) Ltd., Camperdown, Sydney.
W8J.38-59
I
*y
]
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried yeu—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep —a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
cure himself of his habit of “dragging
over.”
* * * *
Peter McAlister, a capital batsman of
30 years ago, is dead in Melbourne, at
68. Peter first entered inter-State cricket
in 1898. In all he played 40 matches for
Victoria in Sheffield and other games and
averaged 32.40. He went to England
with Noble’s 1909 side, his selection caus-
ing a considerable amount of argument.
However, he finished fifth on the tour
averages with 29.14, just below Trumper
and above Noble. For 16 Test innings
he averaged 16.80. He was a splendid
fieldsman and a noted baseballer withal.
Footbrawl
Fourth-round V.F.L. games saw Carl-
ton, 17-19, hold top-ladder position by
beating the bottom team, Fitzroy, 10-10.
St. Kilda took the main match against
Richmond by 15-9 to 13-11 after having
been behind at the second and third
spells. Collingwood got home against
Hawthorn only by a last-quarter spurt
which took ’Wood to 21-15 to 14-16.
Geelong, last year’s premiers, steadied
in the last half to down Fitzroy, 10-12
to 8-17, while Melbourne made up a
thirdrspell deficit and beat South Mel-
bourne, 23-15 to 15-11. Essendon was
always ahead of North Melbourne, 19-11
to 14-17.
Vic. Association leaders Brunswick and
Brighton staged a close game. Brighton,
although leading at the last change, lost
its pre-eminence, Brunswick finishing a
goal in front, 14-13 to 13-13.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The efforts of the V.F.A.
to get special railway fares on play-
ing days have been successful; in future
tickets will be available to barrackers at
two-thirds of the ordinary charge. The
Association is looking up. Its row with
the League has been a good advertise-
ment, and gates to time of writing were
well ahead of last year’s—£l94l to £1220.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Since the V.F.L. adopted
the “Coulter law,” which was to prevent
clubs paying their signed-up players more
than £3 a week, whole trains have been
driven through it. A recent investigation
by the League showed that. In what the
investigators called a typical case the
club was paying its hireling £3 a week
for playing, another £3 a week for sus-
tenance and travelling, and another £3
per week for board and lodging. The
League is going to do something about
it, but is not sure what.
* * * *
Drummoyne, though beaten on Satur-
day by Manly, still tops Sydney’s Rugby
Union table. Manly is shaking down
into a well-balanced combination: its
forwards shaded the Red pack every-
where but in set scrums, and the backs
had too much pace for their Drummoyne
opposites. There was an 11-point differ-
ence at the finish—2l-10; five tries to
two. University was beaten again—this
time by West, 27-24. But West had
some anxious moments.
Randwick takes Uni.’s second place
on the premiership table, one point below
Drummoyne, but poor kicking for goal
nearly lost it the game against Parra-
matta. Though ’Wick scored five tries
against two, it had only one point to
spare at the bell—l 7-16. In the other
matches East trounced North, 22-9, and
St. George found Gordon easy, 25-16.
sjc * * *
“Stand Off”: Still another rehashing of
Rugby dates ensures that there will
after all be no clash between the matches
of Maoriland’s Union and League players
in Australia. The Leaguers’ itinerary has
been cut from 12 to nine matches. They
will arrive in Sydney on June 4 and
leave for home on July 7.
H*
“Bowen Bridge”: The action of the
Queensland R.U. in reinstating a League
professional player of some calibre
named Hickey has roused the wrath of
the N.S.W. body, which has whitewashed
more professionals in a year than the
Maroons have done since they went back
to the amateur code. N.S.W. officials
have the gall to complain that nothing
can be done to discipline the Banana-
landers, who are a law unto themselves.
The N.S.W. crowd are entirely to blame
for that. For years they have burked
every attempt to found an Australian
Union.
* * * $
“Stand Off”: Periodically the N.S.W.
Rugby Union, which speaks for Austra-
lian Rugby without any authority to do
so, discusses the question of a color for
Australian teams. The present green and
gold, cribbed from the cricketers, was
adopted by South Africa before Australia
thought of it. It would seem that the
N.S.W. light blue, with an Australian
instead of the waratah badge of N.S.W.,
would fill the bill better than any other
color. The Queensland maroon and Vic-
torian dark blue come too close to the
Welsh and Scottish jerseys, while white
is England’s established uniform. Light
blue, to writer’s knowledge, is not worn
by any other Rugby international team
or leading club. Even Cambridge, whose
special color it is, wears a jersey of broad
light blue and white bars.
* * * *
“Everton”: Arsenal has again won
the premiership of the Soccer League—
its fifth success in eight years—by beat-
ing Bolton Wanderers, 5-0. The season’s
results see Manchester City, last year’s
winners, at the bottom of the first
division list with West Bromwich, a
Birmingham club, and both step down
to the second division. Manchester
United and Aston Villa, another Bir-
mingham side, come up to take their
pia ces *
Miscellaneous
Melbourne Grammar won the 1938
Head-of-the-Yarra final by three-quarters
of a length from Geelong Grammar,
with Scotch third, three lengths away,
Scotch eliminated Xavier, the 1937 win-
ners, in the hardest and most exciting
race of the heats, and the effort probably
told on the eight. Melbourne beat Wesley
in their heat, and Geelong Grammar beat
Geelong College. A heavy and well-
stroked crew, Melbourne’s eight rowed a
shrewd final, and had enough in hand
to hold off a determined last-minute spurt
by the Geelong boys,
* * * *
“Swan”: Westralian oarsmen are so
pleased with their King’s Cup win at
Melbourne that they are going to enter
f or th e nex t meeting at Brisbane,
Because of the distance between West-
rafia and Queensland either State is
excused from attending the race for the
trophy when this is rowed on the other
fellow’s water. The Gropers, however, are
starting a collection to meet the heavy
cost of the long trip across the conti-
nent next year, and hope to bite their
Government’s lug for a subsidy.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Fay Compton’s Victoria.
As represented by Miss Compton in
the Laurence Housman episodic play
now decorating Sydney Royal stage with
regal and lovely settings and dressing,
polished acting and a graceful period
atmosphere, Victoria is put forward as
Laving had so much humor of a quiet
quality as to come in naturally as right
and proper character of a thoughtful
comedy.
This saving quality is probably the
note which will most strike the general
run of those who see the play in Sydney.
Unless their notions of Victoria are alto-
gether different from those usually accu-
mulated from the ragbag of history,
biography, portraiture and the like, audi-
ences will find this Victoria both sur-
prising and likeable.
Such bits from the ragbag as the hack-
neyed “We-are-not-amused” gag—the
play does not repeat it —have a tremen-
dous effect Also, the Kipling gibes ; like-
wise such things as the symbolic statue
of Victoria near Hyde Park, accounts
of the upbringing of Victoria’s children,
and especially accounts of the austerity of
her widowhood.
Legend having been thus unkind to
Victoria, it is rather startling to meet
the version presented by Miss Compton.
The legend may be right; Mr. Housman
in the episodes given in this production
may be merely editing history kindly to
make a pleasant palace comedy, and
Miss Compton engagingly abetting him ;
but, authentic or not, this Victoria is, at
any rate, a human being.
The touch of humor which makes her
that is a very gentle quality ; far from
the forbidding, condescending, tight-
lipped manner that goes with most ver-
sions of Victoria. Nor is it restricted to
her youth. It runs throughout; most
gracious and engaging when Victoria, in
Miss Compton’s splendid acting, has
passed through stages of youth and
young womanhood to widowhood and on
to extreme old age.
In all 10 of the Housman episodes are
given. The scenes shift in nicely-
regulated jumps from 1837 —the news
brought to Victoria that she is Queen —to
1897, closing on a scene symbolic of
both the Empire and the sentimental
overdressing of the ’nineties —the old
Queen attended in a wheelchair by two
Indian princes, with the future Edward
VII. in bemedalled military rigout and
other royal personages and Court ladies
and gentlemen, arrayed a la ’nineties
fashion-plates, crowding a spacious room
of Buckingham Palace.
Each of the 10 scenes is a polished
little comedy vignette. Even that with
Mrs. Gladstone and Victoria talking on
mutual bereavement has its touches of
homely comedy. Other scenes —that with
the newly-wed Victoria diverted by the
spectacle of Albert shaving himself ; that
in a marquee on the lawns of Balmoral,
with first the brawny Scot John Brown
and then Disraeli attending on the ageing
Victoria ; the scene in which the young
Victoria shows the pretty little Lady Jane
the strength of her jealousy—are outright
comedy. The touch is naturally more
restrained in such scenes as that wherein
Albert —a sick man, soon to make his
final exit —redrafts the Gladstone Note
that would have brought war with
America; none the less the comedy
touch, in some degree, is always there.
It all makes up into a pretty play of
remarkable and delightful variety.
Miss Compton’s charming perform-
ance is well matched by the excellence of
Bruno Barnabe’s Albert. He, too, is far
more human than the legendary Albert.
It is probably an effect of the times that
Albert achieves heroic proportions
through nothing so much as the sane
moderation of his counsel on the silly
little squabble with America. It sym-
bolises the stand being taken by Britain’s
present P.M.
Acting support is very strong, es-
pecially Stafford Hilliard’s Lord Beacons-
field.
Gibbit Tibbett.
So long as the tune has a right good swing
It doesn’t much matter what words you sing,
announced Tibbett cheerily in his sixth
concert at Sydney ; and he immediately
and uproariously proved the point by
singing “Mother Hubbard” in the man-
ner of the grandest opera.
* Audience, in the ecclesiastic atmo-
sphere always attached to visiting Art,
and made thicker than ever by organ
and the generally devout furnishings of
the Town Hall, had received in shocked
Mischa Auer in “Merry-Go-Round of 1938,” at Sydney Capitol; Mickey
Rooney in “Thoroughbreds Don’t Cry,” at Sydney St. James.
silence an earlier statement from Rev.
Tibbett to the effect that:—•
I have been thinking of killing myself
Because you are the woman
Who prefers the man who runs the drug store.
But by the time he had done that and
“The Roustabout” they were ready to
roar at “Mother Hubbard.” “The
Roustabout,” in true sea-chanty style,
ran:
Never no rest, never no sleep,
Say, it would make any Chinaman weep;
Pull out o’ dock,
Lie down and snooze,
Land in another an’ no time to lose! >
Hustle the freight out like devils possessed,
Never no sleep, never no rest.
The words of the song, like the words
of the lowbrow negro items, had a crude
vitality that brought them near poetry ;
and present showman, browsing through
the programme, discovered afresh that
there’s more triteness sung with Brahms,
Bach and co. than with the popular stuff.
There’s a strange gap between the
kindred arts of poetry and music, but,
as Tibbett proclaimed, it really doesn’t
matter much. Except at the interval;
and then, what could be “Ruddier than
the Cherry”?—
Bring me a hundred reeds of decent growth
To make a pipe for my capacious mouth,
O ruddier than the cherry!
O nymph more bright than moonshine night,
Like kidlings blithe and merry!
“Bluebeard’s Eighth Wife.”
Gary Cooper, Claudette Colbert.
The Bulletin’s chief film award —
the Special Corktipped Crown Seal, avec
Bottle, plus Contents —to this comedy,
coming on at Sydney Prince Edward on
Saturday.
It should go without saying that it is
excellently acted. Cooper stands as far
above the bulk of male film actors his-
trionically as he does physically. He
gives here one of his most natural per-
formances. He even gets away with the
suggestion that he suffers from insomnia,
and that, through this and matrimony,
he has a nervous breakdown, which is
something like asking anyone to credit
the same sort of thing in Mussolini.
Cooper puts it over handsomely, as he
does the whole piece of being a much-
divorced, big-money-making Amurrican
taking a breath of the French Riviera.
The Colbert also turns in a stunning
job as the girl he meets there, daughter
of that notoriously impecunious count,
the Comte de Ed. Ev. Horton.
The story is incomparably better than
that of most screen comedies —of most
films, if it comes to that. The lay of it
is that Cooper, who had hitherto taken
matrimony in the free and easy American
—or, at any rate, Hollywooden—manner,
meets the French girl represented by Miss
Colbert and walks in to pick her up and
sample matrimony with her in the same
casual manner.
On her side is French aristocratic blood
minus impecuniosity. At first repulsing
Mr. Cooper’s rush tactics, she presently
really likes him ; then, with her family
gathered from Paris and provinces for
the French pre-wedding family photo-
graph, it comes out that Mr. Cooper’s
record is already one up on Henry
VIII.’s.
Uproar, of course; but a colossal pre-
marriage settlement on the bride wins the
day, with the bride, however, determined
to have the last laugh in the joke. So
they go off on their honeymoon, and
the rest of it is the bride first holding
out on her man, then playing up to his
jealousy ; he meanwhile trying strong-man
tactics with her, according to the recipe
of “The Taming of the Shrew,” and
eventually ending up in an institute for
nervous breakdowns.
The film has such quality that the
knowing of this rough outline in ad-
vance won’t interfere with anyone’s
pleasure in it one iota. Into that outline are
packed a score of hilarious comedy situa-
tions. Soon after it opens, for example,
Cooper is in a Riviera haberdashery
insisting on being sold only the top half
of a suit of pyjamas and advancing the
opinion that the pyjama business is a
world-wide racket, since the great majority
of mankind who wear ’em at all sleep in
only the coat. By the time the Colbert
has approached the counter and offered
to buy the bottom half, telling Cooper
that no, she is not married and hasn’t
a brother, the little matter has spread
into what is on its own a complete side-
splitting comedy.
And that isn’t by any means the end
of the pyjamas. They presently advance
the plot well into its stride, to be fol-
lowed by other compact comedies fun-
nier still.
The film fairly races. It is cleverly and
beautifully produced, and it moves at
such a rate that the end seems to be too
abrupt. It is one of the very few screen
offerings that present film-taster ever
wished had been a bit longer.
“Merry-Go-Round of 1938.
Those who may have concluded, from
the cold receptions recently handed to the
Marx Bros, and others, that vaudevillians
are a back number on the screen should
drop in and view this rib-damager at
Sydney Capitol.
Plot —poor - goil - rich - gent. - romance
being kiboshed by uppah stratah, then
untangled by goil’s poverty-stricken guar-
dians —is piffle, and the two halves of the
lurv interest are most noticeable for their
shortcomings, but both matters are cut
to a minimum to make room for the
funny stuff.
Those most responsible for this section
are the three vaudevillians Bert Lahr,
Jimmie Savo and Billie House, and
Mischa Auer and Alice Brady.
Auer’s performance should consolidate
his position as one of the funniest per-
sons on the screen. Impersonating a
swami, he wanders through a palatial
sassiety residence clad only in loin cloth
and turban, reposes on a seat of six-
inch nails, contemplates his girth and
discovers that his supposed powers of
levitation are genuine. With Auer doing
such a job need any more be said?
Lahr, a genuine comedian, romanticises
with Louise Fazenda and uppah-crustah
Alice Brady in turn, and displays a voice,
top note of which is the nearest thing to a
donkey’s bray that present commentator
has heard. House, a 20-stoner, turns in
an uproarious job masquerading as
Duchess Tiddlepink. Savo, with less to
do as a swami’s offsider, shows his worth
in an original and entertaining interpre-
tation of “River, Stay Away from My
Door.”
With Auer, these three, top-line artists
at their game, make one of the funniest
teams of laugh-raisers seen to date.
Altogether a very pleasant entertainer,
well up among the pick of current Syd-
ney’s flicks.
“The Adventures of Tom
Sawyer.”
Sydney Mayfair greeted the current
school holidays with the latest filming
of Mark Twain, so there’ll be no change
of bill at that address for a couple of
weeks at least.
There’s a good deal more emphasis on
the calf-love business than either the
author or his creations would have
thought strictly necessary. Such plot as
there is depends on this theme, and there
are times when it threatens to slop over.
That catastrophe averted, no complaint
about any of the rest of the doings.
Even of the calf-love business it should
be said that it is very naturally acted.
The youngsters who, of course, carry the
burden of the piece all act capitally, each
a sound representation, including the
nasty bit of work who stops a pail of
whitewash, a tomato and a cream cake at
appropriate intervals.
Humor, naturally, is the most abundant
ingredient, though to call the film “one
long chuckle” or anything like that would
greatly misrepresent it. It steers a nice
way all the time between pathos and
fun. One of those films which keep you
afterwards picking out the bits you liked
best, it seemed to present viewer to reach
its peak in the church scene, where the
service is held for the three boys believed
to have been drowned. The appearance
of the boys very much alive looking on
and their subsequent entry make comedy
with a kick in it.
There are many such fine bits. The
night scenes on the island, when they


NO USE.MISS ochut-Mabd
No matter how hard you
brush, your teeth won’t
really sparkle unless you
use the right tooth paste
—• Pepsodent, containing
the thrilling new dental
discovery, IRIUM. Irium
ends Scrub - Hard disap-
pointment. It gets you
results from proper brush-
ing, makes your teeth
sparkle with a brilliant
natural lustre.
BECAUSE of WWH. • • soAp
P f P c°oS 5 NO GRIT ... NO
pumice. __ Sajffi /
because of iwuh ... leavei
your° mouth °feding dean and
wholesome.
PEPSODENT
ALONE among dentifrices CONTAI NS
THE 2/- SIZE
IS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL
THE PEPSODENT CO. (aUST.) PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
HRIVM
d
r
SL
m.
Drawing after the
style of an engraving
of the period. The
Oxford * Cambridge
Boat Race, 1829.
Cambridge in the
foreground.
"The battle of the blues" is one of the great
traditions of two old and famous Universities,
Oxford and Cambridge. This annual boat race,
introduced on June I Oth, 1829 (79 years after
Vickers was introduced), is a severe test of
strength, endurance and teamwork.
Vickers tradition for teamwork, too, has come
through a severe test with flying colours. For
188 years, Vickers strength, quality, purity and
flavour have been perfectly matched to earn
Vickers first place in public favour.
f
amoiu
ICKERS
tince 1550 GIN
Distilled from the original recipe under licence from J. S J. Vickers & Co. Ltd., London.
are beginning to doubt the benefits of
having run away; scenes in the cave at
the end; the fence-whitewashing scene.
The film is in technicolor, which goes
on improving. It aids the presentation of
this happy string of incidents remark-
ably. The island night scenes —including
some fine shots looking up to the stars
—are particularly effective.
May Robson, as aunty, lends the boys
a hand in putting it over naturally, with
Tommy Kelly an appealing Tom Sawyer.
“The Lone Wolf in Paris.”
Francis Lederer, Frances Drake.
The Lone Wolf, that gallant inter-
national jewel thief, has reformed. Now
he employs his craft only in a good cause,
in this instance to ensure the crown jewels
and the crown of Ruritania going to
the rightful owners and the machinations
of the ambitious chancellor being foiled.
It contains a good ration of excite-
ments —burglarious doings in posh Paris
pubbery, kidnapping by aeroplane, knife-
throwing.
Just a film, but well enough for the
purpose of helping “Tom Sawyer” make
a well-chosen school-holidays bill at Syd-
ney Mayfair.
“Thoroughbreds Don’t Cry.”
Mickey Rooney, Ron Sinclair, Judy Garland.
These, three honest normal youngsters
make this cheerful rehash of a much-
hackneyed story a pleasant enough en-
tertainer on Sydney St. James’s current
bill.
Mickey’s a jockey ; American pattern ;
swelled head ; tough guy. Under it all,
of course, a heart of gold. It’s really
heart of g. which leads him into hearken-
ing to his callous old dad’s plea to pull
the neddy that very English, very prig-
gish Ron and his uncle have brought to
America.
Anyone who’s seen a few American
racetrack films, especially any in which
youngsters figure, will need no further
information about the plot.
Rooney acts better than ever, and he
has seldom been better cast. Sinclair—
which youngster, blurb sheet says, hails
from Maoriland —also does a good job.
So does the robust Judy. She turns on,
as she has done before, a bit of mimicry
of film stars which is a very bright patch.
“Manproof.”
Myrna Loy, Rosalind Russell, Walter Pidgeon,
Franchot Tone.
Support at Sydney St. James, this good
entertainer is ye olde triangle filled in
with the sort of acting that is to be
expected from the principals.
Pidgeon, pursued by Myrna, marries
Rosalind. Myrna sets herself to nab
him back, and Franchot hangs round
casually, ready to catch Myrna as she
falls backwards. All works out according
to well-established formula.
Familiarity notwithstanding, it’s easy
to look at. Myrna turns in her customary
nice job, particularly good in a patch
in which she’s blotto. Rosalind also good
in the archy line she specialises in;
Pidgeon sound, and Franchot in excep-
tionally good form.
“Love and Hisses.”
Simone Simon, Walter Winchell, Ben Bernie.
Last week, after only a six-day run,
“Hitting a New High,” with the Pons-
Oakie-Horton combination, was hurriedly
dragged off Sydney Embassy’s screen and
replaced with this comedy-musical, which
doesn’t merit a much longer showing.
The musical side of it is tuneful, and
Mamsell Simon is a charming minx
with charming accent, but her much-
advertised singing is this week’s film
curiosity. Her voice—if it is hers —is
decidedly pleasant, light, clear warbling
well removed from yawping, but the
manner in which she delivers it is an
articulatory phenomenon. Unless syn-
chronisation is a disgracee to the worst of
Hollywood technicians, the lady is either
a ventriloquist or has someone else sing-
ing for her.
Mr. Winchell, according to reports,
earns a fahbulous screw as a radio com-
mentator and for writing a daily column
of gossip in which members of Amurrican
sassiety would rather be mentioned than
in Debrett or the Boston Social Register.
Mr. Bernie’s kudos is similarly enlarged,
he being a N’Yark jazz-band leader and
consequently a great national figure. They
retain their identities and exaggerate their
vocations, concerning themselves chiefly
with getting and giving reciprocal pub-
licity.
To Mr. Bernie comes Mile Simon,
Parisian star whose pitch is promptly
queered by a damning broadcast from
Mr. Winchell. How Mr. Bernie retali-
ates and how Mr. Winchell frustrates
the retaliation while Mile Simon attends
to a slight affair of the heart is a long-
winded business, mildly humorous some
of the way, quite funny at the finish,
but altogether not sufficiently amusing
to justify the footage they occupy in
doing it.
Two clever persons practically wasted
in the film are Joan Davis, champion
fallabout girl, and Bert Lahr, first-rate
vaudevillian, who is proving his mettle
at Sydney Capitol.
“Heidi of the Alps.”
Shirley Temple.
This appealing little stretch is quite
worthy of the 100 yd. queues that are
lining up outside Sydney Plaza.
As a normal child in a simple story-
book tale, Shirley has a part right into
her hands. Abandoned to the ipercies
of a gruff old gran’pa of evil repute, she
abides with him in his mountain hermi-
tage and thaws his frozen heart. She
is kidnapped by wicked aunt, persecuted
by still wickeder governess and helps a
crippled child to health before being
rescued by gran’pa and taken home to
her mountain.
The makers of the film have managed
their job admirably by keeping a close
rein on any hint of sophistication ; there
is no sign of the precocious tap-dancing
youngster of other films. Shirley dances
only twice—when, in flight of fancy, she
appears in a bit of old Dutch, and in a
court minuet —and both scenes are de-
lightful.
Support is excellent: Jean Hersholt,
concealed behind a forest of facial fungus,
as gran’pa; Mady Christians (once a
much-talked-about actress) as aunt;
Mary Nash (governess); Marcia Mae
Jones as the cripple and Sidney Black-
mer as her benign parent.
The film is sentimental but ingenuous ;
it is primarily entertainment for chil-
dren, but also has interest for adults.
Szell in Melbourne.
The great pianoforte concerto, op. 58,
of Beethoven was the principal business
at the celebrity concert at Melb. Town
Hall on Saturday, with Marjorie Sum-
mers as solo artist.
This young woman has a deservedly
high local reputation, to which she
added, although her playing had to stand
comparison with the outstanding per-
formance conductor Szell got out of his
orchestra. Miss Summers played with-
out score, but never seemed to be at a
loss, not even in the dialogue between
orchestra and piano in the second move-
ment, where the tender observations of
the solo instrument get such rough back-
answers from the whole ensemble. The
applause after this item was the most
prolonged that any soloist has had in the
Town Hall for a long time.
Szell provided a distinguished pro-
gramme, beginning with the Bach over--
ture from suite No. 4 in D major and
concluding with the “Tannhauser” over-
ture.
“The New Moon .”
“The New Moon,” which opened at
Melbourne Majesty’s on Saturday night,
is a well-constructed show, its ballets
and general staging as good as its familiar
tunes.
Robert Halliday and Margret Adams
lend the leading characters much more
conviction than has been given to those
of most recent revivals. Comedy is in
the good hands of Marjorie Gordon,
Don Nicol and Yvonne Banvard.
A. W. Walter’s Paintings.
There’s an unpretentious show of these
at the Lodestar Galleries, Sydney—
straightforward landscapes showing little
originality or inspiration.
Timidity in the use of color seems to
be the main stultifying factor. In the
one example where this inhibition has
been overcome, “The Headlands, Middle
Harbor,” the result is a lot more in-
vigorating. “Old Pottery, North Ryde”
and “Capertee Valley” are pleasant, if
unimaginative, transcripts.


6
rmf
FAIR
INTERNATIONAL
INDUSTRIES
(GERMANY)
It will pay you to visit this mammoth
selling centre—the market place of a
hundred countries throughout the world.
Everything new, novel and useful is niade
available at prices that permit unusually
satisfactory profit margins.
AUTUMN FAIR
begins
AUGUST 28 tH
Comprising General Samples,
Textiles, Office Equipment,
Furniture, Photographic,
Sports Goods, Engineering
and Building Fairs.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski
Trading Marks) available of Lars G. Brundahl,
Commissioner in Australia for the Leipzig
International Industries Fair, Challis House,
Martin Place, G.P.O. Box 3127 P, Sydney.
C N. Keppel, Temple Court, 422 Collins
Street, Melbourne. J. M. Beiers, 305 Queen
Street, Brisbane. H. C. lttershagen, S'henton
Park, West Australia.
INVESTIGATE BEFORE
INVESTING
OBVIOUSLY, this is the logical procedure when
your money, no matter how much, is involved.
Therefore, you owe it to yourself to investigate
immediately an investment considered by the world s
leading financial experts to be of the soundest.
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone 85294.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There was the elation of success to
put a dazzle into the J. C. Williamson
party to Fay Compton and her company.
With two successes like Ruth Draper
and Larry Tibbett singing like birds in
the hand, E. J. Tait, Claude Kingston
and Harald Bowden turned the smile of
contentment on all comers. The flow of
good spirits wasn’t expected to take the
place of a round or so of cocktails,
though. The party was at the Australia,
and all the company were there except
Peter Dearing, who was working' hard
at the theatre. Peter is a young man
who believes that hard work leads even-
tually to success.
Stafford Hilliard, who is Miss Codring-
ton’s husband, is responsible for this
assertion. Stafford wears a Dion Bouci-
cault look always, and a monocle some-
times. It was his wife who discovered
“George and Margaret.” The very first
night of its appearance on the stage, one
of the many wicked producers who had
previously refused it rushed madly round
to buy it. And this is a true fairy-story.
He was made to pay far, far more for
it than the playwright had at first asked.
Mrs. Codrington, who has a twinkling
eye, has treasure in England: a daughter
playing in a Priestley play, a garden that
grows and blows, and a Siamese cat.
Daughter, by the way, declares Priestley’s
decisive and uncompromising attitude as*
to what he wants in the theatre the most
refreshing and restful thing she has met.
Fay Compton is crazy on dogs, and
collects them like some people collect
postage stamps. She wore her sun-gilt
hair under a tiny hat, and her round
throat rose from a round neckline. Frock
and furs were dark. Hayley Bell (a
Poynter relation) is a small blonde.
Yvette Anning and Mary Charles are
the two brunettes.
A rose-beige frock and a black hat
with a downswept brim was worn by
Yvette. Mary, the only Australian in
the company, hails from Queensland. She
hasn’t forgotten the Australian knack of
wearing a hat. Everybody talked about
the flat he or she was about to take.
They are all looking forward to a spot
of home life in Sydney.
Encouraged by Harald Bowden’s re-
cent small win in a lottery each group
was busy making up tickets. Faysted,
Ring the Bell, Fay Bow and Kelly’s
Bull are some of the syndicate titles.
The men in the company look as though
they have a stage lure that will cash in
nicely at the box-office. Joyce Bowden,
Mrs. E. J. Tait and daughter Mrs. Byron
Wrigley helped swing the party.
Ruth Draper put up the shutters on
Friday night when a packed-to-suffo-
cation Theatre Royal sighed a little and
laughed a great deal over her “Mr. Clif-
ford” and “County Kerry.” One of the
beaming management whispered that
there was more money in the house than
on any previous occasion in its history
—operas, ballets or anything else no
exception. People were four deep around
the back of the circle and two deep on
the steps of the d.c. In a box were Fay
Compton and members of her company.
During her week-end at Newcastle Miss
Draper was the guest of the wife of the
city’s Anglican Bishop. She also took
a week-end snack with the Tony Hor-
derns at Bowral. Incidentally, at her
tea-party in the Forum Club on Friday
Ruth’s nourishment consisted of a glass
of water.
Here is Joan Lawrence, a Neutral Bay
girl who is teaching school at Condobo-
lin. Joan, who is a teacher in the Educa-
tion Department, already armed with
her education diploma and her 8.A., de-
cided to plug in, in spite of heat and
other handicaps, and try for her M.A.
She annexed this in English, and was due
to collect her degree at the last confer-
ring, but Condobolin duties kept her out
beside the Lachlan. Dorothy Welding
photograph.
Dental knight Harry Moxham was in
the limelight last week. On Wednesday
he was principal witness in a motor-car-
accident case; his car, getting out of
control at King’s Cross, killed a Lithgow
miner and injured a sister of the poor
chap’s fiancee. The knight, who left the
inquest exonerated, said he had held a
driver’s license for 25 years without com-
mitting an offence. In the car with him
had been Marjorie Theodora Julien, of
Rose Bay. An anonymous letter sent
to the police suggested that the driver at
the time of the accident was a woman.
Sergeant Simpson said the police were
convinced this was not so. But the week’s
excitements were not over for the knight
and Miss Julien. On Saturday they were
married, and they sailed on their honey-
moon trip in the Strathallan.
To families like the Lindsays and the
Ashtons, Australia should inscribe a scroll
of fame. The tradition of both families
has been a great stimulus to art and
letters. Just now at the Blaxland Gal-
leries Julian Ashton, his son Howard and
Howard’s son Richard are holding a
“three generations” show. As interesting,
as varied, arid yet with the same family
likeness as the glimpses of the three
artists’ heads seen together at the open-
ing, are the paintings on the walls. And
there’s one notable thing about the
Ashtons. They do paint understandable
pictures.
Of course Julian dominated the scene
at the opening, which was done effec-
tively by Lieutenant-Governor Philip
Street. The Blaxland Galleries were
packed, and artists contemporary with
each Ashton were thick on the scene.
Julian, looking more like a pencil sketch
than ever, confided that he is still out of
bed every morning by half-past four or
five o’clock and that, after teaching at
his studio all day, he is quite willing to
call it a day by half-past eight. This habit
of being up with the dawn has persisted
since early youth. He recalled with a
chuckle that on the first morning of his
honeymoon he was out of the hotel with
the rising sun, and had done a six- or
seven-mile tramp and was back again
before his bride had wakened. This
Letter remembers that once Julian told
her that all his children had cut their
teeth on a particularly large and solid
medal presented to him by some art
society when he was very young. That’s
typical of the lack of swagger that makes
Julian Sydney’s best-loved figure in the
art world.
A microphone on the d.c. stairway at
which a young man aided by Joyce Bow-
den broadcast the arrival of people you
like to hear about and of people who
like to hear about themselves, photo-
graphers snapping cameras to the right
and left of them and people pouring in
by the hundreds made the Fay Compton
season step off on the right foot. The
stage had a curtain with a picture of
Windsor Castle on it, and when this
was whisked up it was fun to step into
a world of royalties, of queen’s gentle-
men and gorgeous footmen, of duchesses
and ladies-in-waiting. Fun to see the
perfectly Victorian decorations. Waxed
flowers under glass, a tall stand in a
long glass window surmounted with a
pot of geranium, red carpets, red cur-
tains and a red cover on the round table.
It was in such an aura that Victoria
proposed to her slim, check-trousered
Albert. There is, too, a lovely ivory and
gold set. A tartan screen in a tent at
Balmoral alone is worth the money.
In her billows of white, blue-worked
broderie anglaise, Victoria did it very
sweetly. As scene followed scene the
frocking was an indication of the build-
ing up of her character. Bright blues,
thick white crinolined silks rich with
gold lace, the fire of emeralds, were
replaced by more sober hues till the
black of widowhood was reached. Twice
the stage was a glittering pattern—-in
the “Rose and the Thorp” incident, and
when the scene bristled with uniforms
and gay frocking at the close of the
diamond jubilee procession.
Mrs. E. J. Tait was a sparkling little
figure in gold-and-black lame. Like
daughter Mrs. Byron Wrigley’s, her
wraps were of silver fox. Mrs. Spencer
Watts was a handsome figure, and Mrs.
E. Wunderlich, in blue and silver, brought
son Theo’s wife, whose frocking mingled
coral-red and black. Red was a favorite
color. Mrs. H. Gordon’s frock and
cloak were of this rich toning, and Mrs.
Bertie Kelly’s outfit was in a brighter
shade of red. Noreen Dangar brought
the coolness of moss-green, and Mrs. C.
V. Walker, as usual, could not pass un-
noted. She was slimness in a ground-
length coat of silver lame. There was a
tall unknown in parchment satin of
French design. With it was worn a high
toque of pleated satin, same shade. This
was tied with a streamer of chiffon
crossed at the back. Mrs. Malcolm Mac-
kellar pinned orchids on her white furs.
Rear-Admiral Custance was in the audi-
ence.
Clever Edna Andrews is the first
woman secretary in the 25 years of the
Musical Association’s existence. Edna
graduated in Arts at Sydney University.
With a friend there who wrote the
librettos she began writing musical
sketches. One of these the Women’s
Union put on for Commem. Day, thus
pioneering woman’s active part in the
ycaiiy laughmaker. Last week s pro-
cession and frivollings showed jus.t
how good the girl students can be.
Three of these musical plays have been
heard over the air. One of them,
“Courtly Capers,” done by the asso-
ciation’s student club, helped to endow
a scholarship. Photograph from Free-
man.
Sydney still clamors for more and
more Tibbett. Packed houses and people
turned away have decided the singer and
his management that this city can go
on listening to him for some more con-
certs. Noticed Madge Elliott listening
raptly to his notes last week, and have
found out since the reason for the mil-
lionaire catch of orchids she was wear-
ing on her velvet coat. It was her birth-
day, and husband Cyril, now adding to
the gaiety of London’s theatre life, had
cabled the order for them.
Alice Gould, just returned after 12
months abroad, has had what might be
termed a theatrical tour of England and
the U.S.A. Alice, who is one of the
stalwarts of the Players’ Club and the
British Drama League in Sydney, often
saw as many as six shows a week. She
says she had to, to get them all in. Lon-
don and New York are simply bristling
with good plays. Three which made deep
impression were “Mourning Becomes
Electra,” Elmer Rice’s' “Judgment Day”
and lan Hay’s big laugh “The House-
master.” This last has run for two years.
One of the plays that New York is de-
vouring is “Shadow and Substance,” by
a Glasgow writer. France, Italy, Ger-
many and Czechoslovakia were all visited
by Alice and her mother. They motored
through England and Scotland, but
parked their car when they went on to
the Continent. Alice felt her languages
were not equal to motoring difficulties.
The new clubhouse of Elanora echoed
to its first dance on Saturday night. Many
of the dancers had played golf all after-
noon, and had brought their festive
raiment with them, altogether calling it
a day. There was a gipsy orchestra play-
ing during dinner. The flower decora-
tions were rich in the season’s reds and
golds. The Colonel Playfair couple (he’s
the club’s president) entertained a party
of great size.
The Authors’ Ball filled David Jones's
ballroom with characters created by Aus-
tralian novelists. They were grave and
they were gay, they had been born in
the brains of old and of young pen-
pushers ; but they all had the time of
their lives. President of the Fellowship
of Australian Writers Bartlett Adamson
and Mrs. Adamson were the official host
and hostess.
Centenary literary - prize winners
beamed at every table at the P.E.N.
dinner last week. Mrs. Drake Brockman
had gone to the West, but poet Fitz-
Gerald was there with his wife.
Harry Green, of the Fisher Library,
introduced a visitor, Effie Ross, from
Nova Scotia. Marjorie Quinn, just back
from the U.S.A., repatriated herself. New
member novelist E. V. Timms was wel-
comed. Jeanie Ranken, who has just
gone off to Norfolk Island, drank a
parting toast; president Elliot Napier
made one of his happiest speeches, and
Municipal Librarian Bertie was happily
reflective over his pipe.
Australians visiting California know
Mrs. Elsie Noble Caldwell’s hospitality.
Being a writer, she is particularly good to
anybody working in an aura of ink. She
will call into Sydney for a few days on
her travels, which have taken in South
Africa, South America and the Malay
States, and will add Pago Pago before
her return to Los Angeles. Old friends
Violet Roche and Dora Payter will be
mixing cocktails for the visitor on the
twenty-third of this month.


Lew chops of
c+
(jives suidL seascnhw
io etmwheUawuhleM
dimei
3L
oechet
behind me
i
, a
lltiit
1111
WRITE FOR
FREE
COOKERY BOOK
LEA & PERRINS, 96 White Street, Leichhardt, N.S.W.
Name
Address
Bulletin.
-V EXTRA
S ft UCE
'something' that
MAKES A MEAL


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1836 of 1937.
BETWEEN MARGARET WHYTE (formerly
Margaret McMillan) Petitioner
And JAMES ALEXANDER WHYTE Re-
spondent.
TO JAMES ALEXANDER WHYTE late of
Manly near Sydney in the State aforesaid.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARGARET
WHYTE has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Sixth day of August next and in the
event of your not so doing within the time
limited the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition hied
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of May, a.d. 1938.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
J. C. McMASTER, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND.
WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
WELLINGTON REGISTRY.
No. 5249.
TO HARRY CHARLES GYE of Sydney Clerk
husband of DOROTHY MILLICENT GYE
of Wellington Married Woman.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New Zea-
land at Wellington citing you to appear and
answer the petition of DOROTHY MILLI-
CENT GYE of Wellington Married Woman
wherein she prays for. a dissolution of her mar-
riage with you on the ground of desertion and
such citation intimates that in default of your
so doing the Court will proceed to hear the
said petition and to pronounce sentence therein
notwithstanding your absence Now therefore
take notice that for the purpose aforesaid you
are within thirty days after the date of this
publication to attend in person or by your
Solicitor at the Supreme Court Office at Wel-
lington and there to enter an appearance with-
out which you will not be allowed to address
the Court at any stage of the proceedings. A
copy of the said citation and petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same
at the Supreme Court Office at Wellington.
DATED this 29th day of April, 1938.
I. E. POLLOCK,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing ad-
vertisement.
ADRIAN HERBERT LAWRANCE TREAD-
WELL is the Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose
address for service is at the offices of MES-
SIEURS TREADWELLS, 4 Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 473 of 1938.
BETWEEN MILDRED HALL of Condobolin
Petitioner
And GEORGE HALL Respondent.
TO GEORGE HALL formerly of Sydney and
latterly of 9 Martin Street Sunshine Vic-
toria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MILDRED
HALL has commenced a suit against you in
this Court and she is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Eleventh
day of August One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-eight, and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had or obtained on application to the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of May, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
C. P. McCOOE, Solicitor, Condobolin; by
his Sydney Agent, B. J. McCOOE, Solicitor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction,
no. 1599 of 1937.
BETWEEN HELEN COURTIER BRASIER of
113 Dandenong Road Malvern 5.E.4 in
the State of Victoria Petitioner
And CECIL ROWLAND BRUCE
BRASIER (also known as JAMES CECIL
ROWLAND and JAMES CECIL BRAS-
SIER) Respondent.
TO CECIL ROWLAND BRUCE BRASIER
(also known as JAMES CECIL ROW-
LAND and JAMES CECIL BRASSIER).
TAKE NOTICE that a decree for restitution
of conjugal rights dated the fourth day of April
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight
has been made against you in a suit wherein
HELEN COURTIER BRASIER was the Peti-
tioner and you the said CECIL ROWLAND
BRUCE BRASIER (also known as James Cecil
Rowland and James Cecil Brassier) were re-
spondent requiring you within two calender
months from the service of the said decree to
take back or return home to the Petitioner and
render to her conjugal rights and further requir-
ing you within four days after the expiration of
the said two calendar months to file in the
registry of this Honorable Court a certificate
of compliance with the decree AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that by an Order made on
the eleventh day of May instant it was
ordered that substituted service of the said
decree be made by advertising this notice
twice in a Sydney weekly newspaper AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the conse-
quence of your noncompliance with the decree
is that the Petitioner may at once present
a petition asking for a decree against you for
iudicial separation or for dissolution of your
marriage AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that service 'is to be taken as complete on the
twenty-sixth day of May One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-eight from which day the
two calendar months in which you are to take
back or return home to the Petitioner will com-
mence to run.
DATED this Thirteenth day of May, a.d.
1938. , „ .
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
R. C. TISDALE, Solicitor for Petitioner, 8a
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
A new moon, a full moon and an
eclipse of the moon visited us all at the
same time. The eclipse happened, as
was anticipated, round about 7 p.m. in
a clear sky, so that ordinary mortals who
don’t understand such phenomena had
ample evidence that the astronomers do
really know a thing or two. “The New
Moon,” a ship with music on the stage
of His Majesty’s, made believe of along
the New Orleans coast round about 1792.
Players on the stage had comrades in
the audience ; everywhere there seemed
to be platinum-blonde heads of leading
ladies and others who sing and dance in
J.C.W. shows. Valerie Hay was there
wearing a black satin frock and lei made
by herself of paper daisies and real
ferns. In the stalls were George Gee
with his wife and Moya, who look more
like sisters than mother and daughter.
Upstairs were the Donald Burrs. She
is Billy Worth, off the stage a suavely-
groomed brunette. Little Lois Green was
there, in a squirrel coat over a striped
taffeta frock. Barrett-Lennard and Helen
Bruce were others who added to the
general applause.
The University revue “Nuts in May”
had a few, but not many, worm-eaten
kernels; on the whole it was a merry
show, with a really excellent ballet, and
it moved along with neither prompts
nor waits between the scenes. A crack
at Canberra and its ways was “Alice in
Blunderland,” wherein Alice (Roma
Ward) looks for the centre of Australia
and finds it at Canberra with the help
of the White Babbitt. There she meets
the Mad Hatter (or the Prime Minister)
in the hat in which he goes to London,
the March Hare and some sleepy dor-
mice politicians who wake up sometime?
to shout “red-tape.” Viscounts, office
receivers, fisher girls and bailiffs stole bits
and pieces of Gilbert and Sullivan music
for a blithesome A. P. Herbert operetta,
with Maidie Flint, Wilbur Curtis and
others in heroic roles. Keith Mackart-
ney and Josephine Ambler were a great
help in several branches of the show,
and once more they did “Under the
Rowan Tree,” whose sap still flows vigor'
ously, though the shrub is not of this
year’s growth.
John (otherwise “Peanuts”) McMillan
wandered on and off the stage making
irrelevant remarks, but he got away with
them. Helen Collis-Brown, Beryl Wilson
and Shirley Carroll twinkled sprightly
toes among the dancers. In the finale,
even without Gavan Flannagan’s black-
and-gold robes, there was never any
doubt that it was the Chancellor who
peered over the tops of his glasses. Percy
Zerman, in calico nightie and gumboots.'
sailing aloft on a wire as the announcing
angel in the Wilson Hall, had a lovely
time gallivanting above the heads of the
assembled company until the band started
up with the National Anthem. Percy
hadn’t bargained for standing at atten-
tion with no solid ground beneath his
feet. Now he knows exactly how a fish
feels at the end of a line.
Tom Eckersley, who with Noel Bergere
was joint author of the University revue’s
feature “Alice in Blunderland,” has re-
ceived an appointment in the Department
of External Affairs at Canberra. Tom
graduated in Arts with honors in French
in 1935, since when he has spent over a
year in Japan as a result of winning the
Mollison scholarship in Japanese.
“Nowadays,” said Russell Grimwade,
opening the photographic exhibition of
miniature camera craft at the Leighton
Galleries, “a man goes travelling with a
wife and a camera, whereas in the past
it was the reverse proceeding.” Those
were the times when a snapshotter, re-
garded either as a crank or as a magician,
carried a cumbersome burden of large
camera, its legs, box of plates and black
sheet to hide under while the petrified
victims stared stiffly into the lens. Mr.
Grimwade has been a photographer since
his boyhood, and has noted with interest
the scientific inventions and improve-
ments in the field of his hobby. At the
miniature-camera exhibition several en-
larged examples of his work were on
view. Included in the Australian section
also were photographic studies by golfer
Ivo Whitton and surgeon Balcombe
Quick, which goes to show how a hobby
can be a bond of friendship for men
in many walks of life.
As exhilarating as champagne after a
long diet of barley water comes the ex-
hibition of Hungarian pictures. We are
loyal to our gum-trees, but do like to go
on the scoot now and then with a change
of scenery and point of view. Mrs.
Ernest Scott opened the exhibition with
one of the best speeches ever made on
such an occasion, which is saying a lot
considering the vice-royalty, Attorney-
Generals, barristers, Lord Mayors and
others competing who are well practised
at such jobs. But Mrs. Scott is an excep-
tional person. She has read practically
everything worth reading, is interested in
the sciences and the arts, and is intensely
musical. She was solo pianist touring
with Kubelik in the days before she mar-
ried Professor Scott and was still Miss
Emily Dyason.
Among those present on the first after-
noon were Joseph Kovesy and Herr
Heiler. Kovesy brought out the pictures
from Hungary and is showing several of
his own, including figure studies, impres-
sions of peasant life in Europe and
Africa and two fast-moving bullfights
which were the result of a journey to
Spain and the making of numerous
sketches on many visits to the bullring.
Mrs. F. W. Clements was at the show,
the only person present, on the first day
at least, who could speak Hungarian with
Mr. -Kovesy. Noticed also were Mrs.
Lennox Spiers, Mrs. W. S. Cox, all in
black, and Mrs. J. B. Bellair, who
couldn’t pass by a lovely street scene in
Budapest. Enid Hollins and Pat Pantin
did a stroll together, Enid with pageboy
hair- and a twist of Paisley tarlatan in
lieu of a hat. Mrs. Guy Bakewell, who
had given a luncheon that day in honor
of Baroness Hedvig Rappe, came in a
snappy black hat of militant persuasion.
Mrs. Frank Faulkner thought the time
propitious for the wearing of a felt posy
of Austrian flowers upon her lapel.
Not all Melbourne Grammar lads went
off on Boatrace Night to the gala show
of “No, No, Nanette.” A number, joined
by parents, friends and a goodly sprink-
ling of old boys, attended the Old Mel-
burnians’ production of “Youth at the
Helm” in the War Memorial Hall. Diana
Scott Lang, whose photograph is by
Dickinson - Monteath, and Margaret
Turner were the girls in the cast. The
season lasted two nights and wound up
with a dance on both occasions.
Life’s a jollier thing for the occasional
bricks dropped by us and by foreigners
in our midst. While addressing the Inter-
national Club German dancer Anny
Fligg, apologising for her English, ex-
plained a faux pas she made to a large
audience in London, wherein she de-
nounced the way Anglo-Saxons became
“tight” (meaning “tense”). While the
club members were enjoying that effort,
the ingenuous Anny gave them some-
thing worth while to think about by add-
ing that Australians are never tense,
for “you are such a loose-living people.”
A talk over coffee and sugar-topped
cakes in a little cafe by the Elbe was
responsible for Anny Fligg’s tour of Aus-
tralia. The couple who talked (in Eng-
lish with a peppering of German) were
Fraiilein Fligg and Thea Hughes. It
was while attending the Anny G. Fligg
studio in London about three years ago
that Miss Hughes completed her plans to
come to Australia and found the
Women’s League of Health. While say-
ing good-bye she suggested that her
teacher might come to Australia some
day and demonstrate to the League.
Although it was an unborn movement,
that didn’t worry Thea. She’s a con-
fident young woman, which is one reason
for her great success. While in England
last year for the big physical fitness cam-
paign Thea again met Anny, told her
that the Australian League was 5000
strong and said “What about it?” Anny
didn’t know, but soon afterwards Thea
had a telegram from her from Dresden.
On her way to Vienna she went to Ger-
many, and final plans were hatched in
the little riverside cafe.
Anny Fligg’s accompanist, Kurt Her-
weg, who wears a permanent expression
of amiability upon his countenance and
a pink carnation in his buttonhole, had
a birthday last week. He didn’t tell Mel-
bourne his age, but appears young and
active enough to talk about it without a
blush. Kurt comes from Munich, was
conductor for Pavlova’s orchestra during
her last appearances, and accompanied
for some 50 auditions she gave to young
dancers in Essen only a few weeks before
her death. Kurt says that these girls and
hundreds of others who sought an audi-
ence with the great ballerina had varying
degrees of talent, but Pavlova was kind
to all of them and never lost patience,
even with the really misguided ones.
In the Ronald Esler picture is Nola
Nicholas, who is to marry Yehudi Menu-
hin in London next week. Her friends
think that Yehudi is a very lucky young
man, for Nola has beauty, personality,
charm of manner and disposition. She
is the younger daughter of George
Nicholas, whose homes in Lansell-road,
Toorak, and at Macedon are well known.
Her equally beautiful elder sister Betty
married Dr. Edmund Alcock, and lives
in Grosvenor-square, London, with her
husband and small son David, aged 14
months. Dr. Alcock will be particularly
interested in the fact that a violin cele-
brity is to enter the family, for he is very
musical, and at one time considered giv-
ing up medicine and seeking a career as
a violinist.
Nola left Melbourne 15 months ago,
and has been staying at Claridge’s since
the recent arrival in London of her
father and pretty stepmother, Shirley
Alcock that was. Shirley and Edmund,
who are brother and sister, married
respectively a father and daughter
(George Nicholas and Betty), so that in-
law relationships in the Nicholas family
are rather complex.
Among those who took a personal in-
terest in being present at Anny Fligg’s
recitals was Barbara Smith, of Sydney,
who, while she was at the Royal Aca-
demy of Dramatic Art in London, at-
tended Fraiilein Fligg’s classes in Greek
chorus and dancing. Barbara said that
Anny was silent about her movement,
bufihad a word of commendation for her
speaking voice, a useful spot of encour-
agement for a budding young actress.
Barbara’s work has been seen recently
in Melbourne, when she played Catherine
in Gregan McMahon’s production of
“Call It a day.” In McMahon’s June
season she has been cast as Isobel, Irene
Vanbrugh’s part, in “The Truth About
Blayds.”
Baroness Hedvig Rappe, of Sweden,
and Olive Moller, who comes from South
Australia, are leaving Melbourne just as
this city was discovering them and the
delightful things from Sweden which
they exhibited for a couple of weeks.
Included in the collection are fascinating
glassware and pottery so quaint that it
tickles the palate of the imagination.
There is woodwork also (Swedish tolk
have used wooden platters since the days
of the Vikings, and the Laplanders could
not do without their wooden drinking
bowls and ladles), and for those who like
curiosities there are animals, angels (even
the plainest has its halo) and figures from
folk tales. The Baroness and Miss Moller
are leaving shortly for Sydney, and
although neither has ever been there their
destination is ultimately King s Cross, for
they like the sound of it, and mean to
open a Swedish Arts and Crafts Shop
in the locality. They will travel by car
in the Baroness’s latest small-size pur-
chase. Miss Moller lived for four years
in Sweden, where she met the Baroness
and suggested to her their present venture.


s. \
w
X
'x
£
1
oS O l '
/SIK"
When a MAN
tells you
that he is fifty-four and
the young folk envy his
sound white teeth,
xhat they are following
his example in using
* Calvert’s Tooth Powder,
'ihat it refreshes his mouth
too after a hard day's
smoking
Well, don’t yon think it is
worth trying for your teeth!
om VERT & CU ”
vaAß>t
©5
4
S 3
mi
»
r\o not miss this opportunity of proving whether you
have latent money-making ability for drawing.
The Art Training Institute—long recognised by experts
to be “Australia’s foremost school of Commercial Art” —
offers you instructive Art Ability Tests and a scientific
questionnaire. Your test drawings (or any other sketch
you submit) will be constructively criticised by a senior
member of our Instructional Staff.
Such a criticism would normally be valued at one guinea,
but in order to help overcome the shortage of trained and
talented artists we make this offer at the present juncture
FREE of CHARGE.
If your drawings indicate that you have talent, we will
explain fully what Commercial Illustrating is
and invite you to study our Home Study
Training Course.
Send for our Test Sketches, and remember
that there is no cost or obligation if you
mention the “Bulletin.”
4^4
Art Training Institute
80Swmstm Si. Melbourne
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
The American hockey girls have had
plenty of variety during their Brisbane
visit. Mrs. J. P. Ragland, wife of the
U.S.A. Consul, gave a five-to-seven party
for the girls at her home at Hamilton.
Gladioli and gerberas in crimson tonings
decked the rooms, and the hostess had
a shoulder posy for each of the visitors.
Frances Ragland, very chic in a swing
frock of Tudor green, helped to enter-
tain.
The at-home at the Women’s College
within the University was a bright affair,
and about 120 guests arrived for it. Peggy
Carter, students’ president, received, and
Miss Nina Brentnall, acting-principal
while Freda Bage is away, was among
the official supper party.
Arrangements for parties in honor
of Mrs. Fabian Chow and Mrs. Lee
Soong were begun several days before
the two ladies arrived in Brisbane. Bris-
bane Women’s Club spread itself one
afternoon, and the League of Nations
Union staged a luncheon party. Both
visitors were the guests of Mrs. Red-
mond Byrne at the Belle Vue during
their stay.
Mary Charles, the Toowoomba girl
who came to Brisbane with Fay Comp-
ton’s company, had a reunion with
several old friends of her schooldays
when Mrs. O. B. Stevens gathered up
as many past students of Fairholme
College as possible, and handed round tea
in Mary’s honor. Fairholme O.G. Assn,
also had a party for her.
Joan Crosier gave a supper dance at
the Belle Vue, and invited all her student
pals from the Uni. The all-pink decora-
tions made a lovely background for the?
frocks of the pretty girls. Mrs. E. W.
Crosier helped her daughter to entertain.
A small white boy and a dignified,
dark ayah have turned many heads in
Brisbane recently. The lad is the son
of Marjorie and Brian Holloway, who
live in India, where father’s shipping job
holds him. Mrs. Holloway is over visit-
ing her parents, and also is to pay a
round of visits to friends in the country.
A large contingent from Brisbane went
up to Toowoomba for the picnic races
and ball. For the ball, the show pavilion
was transformed into an old-world gar-
den, complete with hollyhocks and roses.
Club president William Kent, of Jon-
daryan, and his wife welcomed the guests
with the help of other notables. Mrs.
Roy Pearson had about 60 guests to a
fork dinner at the Town and Country
Club that evening, and they all went in
full force to the ball.
There was a moon on the night of the
official at-home at Government House,
and this, together with myriads of colored
lights and flower scents, made the garden
very popular. There were palms in the
entrance hall, and huge bowls of chry-
santhemums and roses, almost all out of
the Government House garden, stood
everywhere. The orchestra was delight-
ful, and a buffet supper made the even-
ing cheerfully informal.
WESTRALIA.
The women’s auxiliary of the Perth
Hospital culled inspiration from carni-
vals and battles of flowers on the Riviera
for their Mardi Gras Ball at the
Embassy. The hospital anaesthetic fund
reaped the benefit. Multi-hued garlands
of flowers were dropped from the bal-
conies on the tripping crowds below, and
flower ballets and exhibition dances filled
in breathing spaces. President Gwenyth
Tebbutt flung a lei of crimson roses
round her lacquered matching marquis-
ettes to escort the v.-r. party to their box.
The Mitchell lady’s billowy fuchsia
ninons scintillated with sprays of
sequins, and daughter Mrs. Terence
Anketell held up lime-green georgettes
with diamente strappings. Mrs. Mar-
shall Clifton took the eye in striped
black-and-scarlet crepe satins, Rita
McGibbon went along in swirls of
fuchsia-and-lime-sashed white ninons
after pouring cocktails at the family home
in Bellevue-terrace, and medico George
Kelsall’s other half added to the floral
note with o.s. spray of palest pink roses
on her midnight-blue crepe.
Canon Henn tied the knot at Guild-
ford Grammar School chapel between
Clem Lefroy, eldest son of the late Max-
well Lefroys, of Caversham, and petite
Dorothy King, of Manjimup, whose
schooldays are a very recent memory.
Magnolia satin, heart-shaped of bodice
and puffed of sleeve, was inlet in the train
with deep-cream net, and billows of mag-
nolia tulle fell from a semi-circlet of
frangipanni and orange-blossom. Patricia
King, Wendy Finch and Ruth Holm
formed the bridal retinue in floating
draperies of apricot chiffon with matching
tulle veils held by circlets of tiny berries
and chillies. After-rejoicings were at the
home of the bride’s grandmother, Mrs.
H. S. King.
The George Burts’ eldest lass, Tsftary,
has decided to exchange station life for
military circles in India with Patrick
Keenan, of the Indian Army. He is the
son and heir of that highlight in legal
and Parliamentary spheres Norbert
Keenan and Mrs. Keenan, one of the
late Chief Justice Parker’s bevy of
daughters.
Low bowls of red roses decorated the
Karrakatta Club luncheon tables when
the Women Writers’ Club forgathered
in honor of former secretary Muriel
Southern, who reports for matrimonial
duties in Adelaide at the end of the
month. Owing to the absence in Sydney
of the president, Mrs. Geoffrey Drake-
Brockman, a case of hand-wrought silver
spoons was handed to the guest of
honor by poetess Mrs. Annie Mark.
After luncheon, Dolly Ferguson chatted
informally of impressions gained on her
recent wanderings abroad.
To join the Mooltan holiday contin-
gent are Mr. and Mrs. Wilfred Cam-
pion, who are off to England to stay with
ex-Governor Sir William Campion and
his lady at their lovely Surrey home,
Danny. Mrs. Campion’s sister, Barbara
Sarell, is making a threesome of the
family party. Mr. and Mrs. Sarell poured
farewell drinks for the travellers at their
home in West Perth, Mrs. Frank For-
man gathered tea-drinkers together at the
London Tavern, and Mrs. Gordon Wils-
more presented autumn-tinted posies to
the guests of honor at her party at the
same hostelry.
A cortege three-quarters of a mile
long followed Talbot Hobbs to the
crematorium in Karrakatta cemetery.
The Federal and State Governments and
naval, military and air services were rep-
resented. Along the route crowds stood
bareheaded as the flag-draped coffin
passed.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Palais Royal was crowded for the
Royal Aero Club’s Ball. His Ex., who
is patron of the club, attended with Lady
Dugan, and the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress, Brigadier A. M. Martyn and
his wife, Commander and Mrs. A. S.
Rosenthal were in the v.-r. party. Floral
decorations were carried out in the club’s
colors —red with dark and light blue.
Walford House School girls have had
a special interest in the performances of
the “Balalaika” co., as one of the com-
pany, Betty Sampson, is a one-time
scholar. She is a pretty girl of 19, back
in Adelaide for the first time since she
left seven years ago for Melbourne.
Birk’s Piccadilly was crowded for the
Music Salon’s soiree. Dorothea Angus,
who opened the bill with Brahms’s sonata
for violin and piano in conjunction with
fiddler Lewis Jones, made her last ap-
pearance. She has gone to Perth to be
music teacher and organist at a large
girls’ school. Heather Gell, who recently
returned from overseas, gave a talk about
music and theatres in London. Autumnal
decorations looked effective.
Lady Dugan has been having a busy
time since her return, attending recep-
tions given in her honor by organisations
of which she is patron. The N.C.W.
introduced a floral touch to its affair,
as the president or representative of each
of the 58 affiliated women’s organisations
presented Lady Dugan with a bouquet
of flowers tied with the colors of her
association. The flowers were afterwards
sent to the hospitals.
Graduates’ week opened with the Uni-
versity Ball in the Refectory, when seven
debs, were presented to Vice-Chancellor
William Mitchell. Autumn flowers and
foliage were featured in the decorations
round the ballroom. The guests were
received by the president of the Uni.
Union, G. S. Bridgland, and the president
of the Uni. Sports Association. W. R.
Verco. The Lady Mayoress was present.
Supper was served in the new George
Murray Hall, the tables decorated with
roses in every shade.
Adelaide is reviving the “second lake”
idea. A weir on the river just below the
city backs the water up for over a mile,
forming the handsome Torrens Lake
near the Oval; above and below the river
is just a chain of waterholes for most of
the year. The present idea is to build
another dam a mile further down, where
the Hindmarsh and Thebarton munici-
palities begin; and to beautify generally
that neglected section of the city’s park
lands.
TASMANIA.
The W. P. Hoods gave a dance for
yonng people at ,heir home a, Sandy
Bay just before daughter Betty s wed-
ding. Pink chrysanthemums and scarlet
grape-vine trails made attractive decora-
hon in the drawing-room and hall, which
were cleared for dancing.
The Royal Hobart Golf Club at
Rosny spread itself over a whole day-
and-night entertainment to rake in funds
for crippled children. About 200 golfers
played various matches all day, numbers
of visitors rolled up for afternoon-tea,
and in the evening the clubroom was
cleared for dancing, the verandahs en-
closed with awnings and flags, a marquee
set apart for games of sorts and supper,
A committee of 16 men and women, with
Alan Murdoch as hon. sec., ran the show
with good taste and good management,
and nearly £lOO was netted.
Mary, daughter of Herbert Nicholls
and his lady, exchanged vows with
Arnold Smith, of St. Leonards, at St.
George’s, wearing ivory taffeta cut in
Victorian style, with pointed bodice, very
full skirt and no train. Her short veil
of tulle fell from a little chaplet of
orange-blossom. Betty Stable, solo ’maid,
™ re » Orecian-style dress of brocaded
V/wet
4Q a b nd 5Q ts were entertained after-
wards at th ° Nicho n s home,
The Faculty G f Engineering had its
annual dance at the ’Varsity library,
where green streame rs and colored bal-
ioons did their best to camouflage the
serious aspect of the book-lined walls,
Supper was served in two separate
ro oms, where the tables had dark-red
dahlias for decoration. There was a big
crc wd of dancers,- and the show was
one 0 f the best held at the ’Varsity in
recent years.
Betty Hood walked down the aisle of
st. David’s Cathedral as Mrs. Douglas
Anderson in a dress of ivory georgette,
w ith sunray-pleated bodice and skirt, a
short train and short tulle veil held by
a wreath of orange-blossom. ’Maids
Margaret Hood, Sibyl Sale and Edith
Bisbee followed in powder-blue frocks
with high Empire waistline, sashes in
fuchsia tonings and fuchsia headdresses.
At the reception following, which was
held at the bride’s parents’ home in
Sandy Bay, about 70 guests gathered.


AIR CELL RECEIVERS GIVE
CONTINUOUS,
TROUBLE-FREE
RECEPTION
£ "Air Cell" receivers have proved themselves to be
the most satisfactory and the most economical type
of radio receiving set designed for use in country
districts. Operated by an Eveready "Air Cell" Bat-
tery that requires no recharging, and with normal
use gives over 12 months' service, they are unmatched
for trouble-free reception regardless of location.
Compare the reliability and economy of "Air Cell"
power with other methods before purchasing your
new radio set. And ask your dealer for his opinion.
An advertisement issued by
THE EVER READY CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
All
NO
OUTSIDE POWER
NO
BATTERY RECHARGING
NO
BOTHERSOME GADGETS
EVEREADY
tx ice
g#®tg»g» BgjWkg g--m*gw-g.Kw%P i
SOR Tfi#
EMPIRES MILLIONS
RADIO NEWS.
DON B KNOCK 'S PAGES
"R" Meter Installation.
Whether for general short-wave recep-
tion or amateur working, the addition of
a signakstrength meter as a visual com-
parative indicator is well worth while. In
the case of the home-constructed short-
wave superhet there is little difficulty in
making this addition. The meter serves
further as a check on the proper opera-
tion of the receiver.
The simplest way of including the
meter in the receiver circuit is as shown
in the diagram. It is connected in series
with the primary circuit of one inter-
mediate amplifier stage, using a 0-to-l
milliammeter with a shunt rheostat. The
rheostat reduces the meter sensitivity and
is adjusted until a full-scale deflection
is shown with no signal tuned in.
A meter with a higher reading than one
milliampere can be used by connecting
it in the plate circuit of two A.V.C. I.F.
valves, so that the current drawn by
both is read by the meter. With a 0-to-l
milliammeter with shunt, the value of
the latter depends on the sensitivity of
the meter used and also on the internal
resistance. With a Triplett 0-to-l meter
a 50-ohm rheostat will be suitable.
D. B. K.
Radio Amateurs and Defence.
Good work has been done by the
R.A.A.F. wireless reserve inaugurated
many years ago under R. H. Cunning-
ham’s (VK3ML) organisation, and the
Commonwealth Government now pro-
poses a furtherance of the scheme. The
R.A.A.F.W.R. has been able to accept
only a fraction of the amateurs offering
as telegraphists, and a Signal Corps Re-
serve is suggested, giving training not
only for Air Force signal communication,
but for the Navy and Army as well.
There are hundreds of excellent tele-
graphists among Australian radio
amateurs, and it would take very little
time to train these men in service pro-
cedure in telegraphy (and telephony)
communication. The Air Force has the
greatest appeal to the young amateur.
Apart from the interest attached to work
in conjunction with fighting ’planes, the
R.A.A.F. communication systems call for
work over long distances at times, and
the equipment is of a nature likely to
appeal to the amateur. The Army, on
the other hand, has at present only one
piece of equipment to attract the ad-
vanced amateur; the rest is about as
attractive as a land-line telephone or
semaphore flags.
The W.I.A. should make the first move
with the proposed Signal Corps Reserve,
leaders who are competent telegraphists
co-operating with service signal officers.
Something of this kind could be sub-
stituted for the interminable C.W. DX
contests. Government recognition of such
a scheme would mean the allocation of
special reserve frequencies outside the
crowded amateur bands for the purpose
of network training, and interference-free
channels would be worth having.
Soldering Hints.
Most difficulties associated with the
use of soft solder can be overcome by
attending to cleanliness —a good joint
cannot be made where two metal sur-
faces are oxidised.
Scrape carefully around wires'to be
soldered before applying flux. If a wire
has been handled by hot or moist hands,
or exposed to the atmosphere for any
length of time, clean it before attempting
to solder. If emery cloth is used for
cleaning, care should be taken that no
dust is left on the parts.
The soldering flux should contain a
minimum of acid, especially where fine
insulated wires are used, in order to pre-
vent corrosion. Pure resin flux is recom-
mended. When soldering large flat sur-
faces, a paste flux can be used.
When enamel-insulated wires are to be
soldered, it is advisable to clean off the
enamel for a distance of an inch or so,
as some enamels dissolve with heat, and
prevent a good joint.
There may be occasions when it seems
necessary to solder to terminals or lugs
passing through ebonite, and as the heat
from the metal terminal may soften or
distort the material it is better to clamp
the connecting wire tightly under the nuts
instead of soldering. Soldering will be
unavoidable where lugs are provided
without terminals. ’
When soldering to lugs on paper di-
electric condensers of the metal-case types
it is advisable to apply heat sparingly,
as there is a danger of unsoldering the
leads inside the condenser. This does
not apply so much to condensers with
pigtail connections, as very little heat
is conducted along the relatively thin
wire. Another trouble with many of the
earlier-design metal-encased condensers is
that too much heat will overrun the
pitch filling with which such condensers
were sealed
c , .. . ,
Soldering aluminium is too tough a
job for the beginner-very intense heat
and scrupulous cleanliness are needed.
In any kind of soldering the bit should
be kept clean and well “tinned.” If it
shows a tendency to blacken, clean the
bit with a fine file or emery cloth, and re-
tin it. Ordinary gas- or fire-heated bits
are sometimes cleaned by raising them
to a red heat and plunging into clean
water. Electric irons should not be
treated this way. After the scale has
been removed by scraping and a clean,
shiny surface is obtained, the bit, after
reheating, is dipped into a clean flux com-
pound and solder is applied until a
tinned portion is available at the tip.
Good-quality soft solder of the Kester
kind is best tor radio jobs, and is obtain-
able with a resin core on small reels or
in lengths. The best iron for radio work
is the electrical type. The only precau-
tion to observe is to keep it switched on
only long enough to do the job on hand,
otherwise the life of the element will
be shortened.
D.B.K.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Receiver. —Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-
waver. Location, Quilpie, s.w. Queens-
land.
A definite summary of reception con-
ditions has now been arrived at for this
location. On 19 metres, from 6.30 to 10
a.m., at various times, stations con-
sistently heard include YDC, DJL, GSO,
GSF, GSP, GSI, DJB, DJQ, DJR and
one unknown station at about 19.60
metres. This station appears to be on
the air practically all day, but is never
very strong. American stations are very
weak now, and between 10 a.m. and
noon appears to be a bad period on all
short-wave bands.
On 25 metres RNE, TP A 3, JZJ,
WIXAL, DJD, GSD and TPA4 are heard
well, with a foreigner below TP A 3.
Thirty-one metres shows GSB, OZL,
OLR4A, KZRM, JZI, W2XAF, WIXK
W3XAU, 2RO, COCQ (30.8) and
XEWW on 31.58. The three Americans
are still rather good, but KZRM spoils
WIXK. On 49 metres DJC and ZRH
are nearly as good as 31-metre stations.
From noon to 2 p.m. the 19-metre
stations are DJR, DJB, DJQ, GSF, GSI.
and one can usually be found on 19.60
metres. These stations are at their best
near 2 p.m. From 3 p.m. onwards one
finds on 19 metres DJB, DJQ and DJL,
with DJE on 16 metres. One station
noted on 19.80 metres is probably not
YDC. On 25 metres DJF and TPA4 are
both improving, but Berlin on 31 metres
is poor. VLR, COCQ and XEWW are
very strong.
GSD is very good from 4 p.m., fol-
lowed by GSO, GSF, GSG and GSB.
Berlin is badly beaten by these stations
except on 16 metres. DJS on about 14
metres is heard weakly only in the late
afternoons. At night GSJ is very good
and GSH weak. GSG comes on fairly
quickly, and is usually much better than
DJE at night. YDC is also heard well,
but all other 19-metre stations take until
around 9.30 p.m. to reach good audi-
bility.
Early After-
Morn. Later. 9.30 a.m. noon.
Best Daventry GSB GSB GSD GSD
Best Berlin DJC DJR DJR DJB
Best American WIXK WIXAL W2XAF
WIXAL on 25.4 metres closes at 9.30
a.m., as a rule. On 23^4/’3B WIXAL
closed at 9.40 a.m., when GSD was well
audible. This was the strongest station
heard at the time, W2XAF being next in
order of strength. WIXAL opens with
an announcement at 7.20 a.m., and is
to be found midway between DJD
(which closes at 7.20 a.m.) and JZJ, open-
ing at 7.30 a.m.
In the morning the best 49-metre
station is ZRH or DJC, and the other
bands have these stations outstanding:
Thirty-one metres, OZL (closes about
7.10 a.m.), then GSB.
Twenty-five metres, RNE (best on the
air in this band).
Nineteen metres, GSO, and later DJ.
The best stations on the various bands
at night are: 31 metres, VLR, then GSB ;
25 metres, GSD (best on the air in this
band); 19 metres, GSO ; 16 metres, DJE.
So far, I have not been able to get
GSC at 9.30 a.m., and GSP is very weak,
GSB weak, but GSD readable. On
20/4/’3B PCJ on 31.28 metres closed at
7 a.m. This station is not a regular daily
one, but the volume is very good.
W2XE is very good on 25 metres, but is
only heard occasionally YDC on 19.8
metres is sometimes logged at 9 a.m. at
good strength, and has been the strongest
19-metre station at night.
From 27/4/’3B the strong, easy-to-log
stations in the mornings have been ZRH
and DJC on 49 metres, GSB, OZF,
W2XAF, DJN, DJA, OLR4A, WIXK.
KZRM, W3XAU, 2RO and COCQ, the
last-named being a very nice station for
breakfast music. WBXK has commenced
at 9 a.m. on 25.27 metres, and from
then on has been the best station audible,
closing at 1 p.m. The 31-metre band
has been good at night, but when VK9MI
is on 49.9 metres just now this station
is even stronger than VLR, whereas the
other 49-metre stations are not at good
strength. The 16- and 19-metre bands
are not of much use until after 9.30 p.m.,
excepting for YDC. From 8 p.m. on
25/4/’3B GSJ was excellent and recep-
tion perfect until towards the end of the
Anzac memorial service.
In this district the 13-metre band is
essential for the early stages of the
Daventry No. 2 Transmission. Saigon
can now be heard most nights at fair
strength on 25.6 metres, but there is
usually a noisy background. A powerful
’phone station, frequently found on about
24.8 metres, has been heard in the morn-
ings, playing records. There is plenty
of short-wave entertainment on most
bands to satisfy the most critical.
K. B. G.


HOTSPOTS FROM HISTORY
THE REAL REASON
WHY SHEBA ||
VISITED SOLOMON^
3
D ,
H
i
IVORCf
APERS
SHE WANTED
TO HEAR
ONE Of THE
AUDIOSCOPIC
PHILIP'S
7 riilkjf&#!&&
SOLD ONLY BY PHILIPS
ACCREDITED RETAILERS
Fill in this coupon and post to
PHILIPS RADIO. SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE. BRISBANE or PERTH
Please arrange free demonstration of
a Philips Radioplayer.
Name ; ;.
Address
You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is the ONLY STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONLY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
*VWWi»'
fd
are the safest equipment for your
radio set. A regular overhaul of your
radio will give better and brighter
programmes. See your local radio
supplier . . .
and be sure to Re-valve with micro-sensitive
RADIOTHOXS
{Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.)
Amateur Chatter.
When 56mc. DX records are made in
Australia, even of an inter-State nature,
they can be considered as something of an
achievement in comparison with DX
events on this band in more closely popu-
lated countries. Australian capital cities
are several hundred miles apart, and the
band is not constantly occupied. The
path of 56mc. pioneers in Australia is
doubly hard in that serious co-operation
is difficult to obtain.
ZL4DQ sends particulars of his appa-
ratus, with comments on the recent re-
ception of VKSZU on 56mc. Since the
South Australian was radiating only five
watts, and the receiver at the Dunedin
end is not quite a champion, it can
be seen that, given suitable conditions,
56mc. has immense possibilities. The
antenna at ZL4DQ is a 66ft. flat-top,
pointed 20 degrees north of west; 60ft.
high with zepp feeders. These are link-
coupled to both transmitter and receiver.
Receiver is a straight super, with 6K7
R.F. and 6L7 mixer. Good conversion
efficiency is obtained on 10 metres, but
operation is indifferent on five metres.
The remarkable point about the recent
reception is that the VKS used a verti-
cal twisted-pair-fed doublet for trans-
mission, and the signal was copied on the
horizontal zepp in Dunedin. Only ex-
planation appears to be that the feeders,
being more or less vertical, were doing
the signal pickup. On the other hand,
a vertically-polarised 56mc. wave may
be anything by the time it has travelled
any distance. ZL4DQ is also keeping
schedules with the star Belgian five-
metre experimenter, ON4AU, who has
350 watts input on the band, crystal-
controlled. Plans are being laid for
extensive 56mc. work at ZL4DQ for next
equinox, and the receiver by that time
will be an acorn type similar to that used
by VK2NO.
A visitor to VK2NO during the week-
end of 30/4/’3B was T. H. Beaumont,
G6HB, ex-VU2FP, who is doing a com-
mercial brass-pounding trip afloat. When
at his home QRA in Bedfordshire,
G6HB is one of the outstanding G sig-
nals to be heard on 20-metre C.W., and
has worked with a large number of VKs.
A suggestion has been made to the
writer that a different form of 56mc. pos-
sibility between Eastern VK and M.L.
should be investigated in the way of try-
ing directional transmission with beam
arrays directed at an angle determined
to cross the Tasman through the sea.
T?ie bed of the Tasman Sea is deep
enough to give a water path the whole
way provided that stations at each end
are at a fair elevation to start with. The
idea is no more fantastic than that of
a ZL who considers that 56mc. DX might
be possible by using the surface of the
moon as a reflecting medium.
Piracy is growing to such an extent in
VK2 that the R.ls. are determined to do
some cleaning up. Matters are bad
enough with unlicensed stations using fic-
titious callsigns that are not yet allotted
in three letters, but “pinching” another
fellow’s call is in evidence. Stations VKs
2LR, 2DL, 20D, 2HB, 2CD, 2SE, 2AF,
2AIP, 2AHX and 2AEB have reported
their calls as being misused lately, and
amateurs contacting the calls should
Although this illustrates a commer-
cially-made neutralising condenser
for transmitters, it shows also that
home construction is by no means
difficult for the experimenter.
ascertain that the station is actually that
of the licensee. Some illegal stations
have been heard far outside the 7mc.
band, slap on the A.N.A. aviation fre-
quencies. The worst feature is that ama-
teur radio generally has to bear the brunt
of any measures to overcome “pirates.”
Writer referred recently to the over-
done use of phonetics in callsigns. With
strong signals at each end there should
be no need to use “A for America,” “B
for Boston,” etc. It betrays a lack of
confidence in one’s equipment. Another
annoyance in ’phone operation is that of
“sending double.” This is bad enough
in telegraphy, but sounds utterly foolish
in speech.
One result of the Cairo Conference is
that British amateurs will probably lose
a few hundred kc. off the top end of
the 10-metre band, reserved for Govern-
ment purposes. Otherwise all the bands
will remain the same. There was a dis-
tinct possibility that G amateurs were
likely to lose completely the five- and 10-
metre bands. So far there is no authentic
news as to how the Australian amateur
stands after Cairo, but with the world
screaming for frequencies it seems in-
evitable that something will be chopped
off. There has been plenty of off-band
operation by irresponsible amateurs
and protests have been exchanged be-
tween quite a few countries. One result
of it all may be to convince the non-
understanding section of the amateur
community that vigilance committees
exist for the good of all. Far better to
police our own bands effectively than to
have officialdom taking a hand.
The leaders in amateur radio should
give their support to the suggested calling
of amateurs into an Australian Signal
Corps Reserve as an extension of the
existing R.A.A.F.W.R. It is time for
amateur radio to show that it can be
of material use to the country if needed.
The country has hundreds of first-rate
key-handlers and seemingly a few hun-
dred more mike voices to whom a key
is a strange thing.
VK2NO.
Radio Comment.
“Saw-tooth”: Says an English writer:
“Television is inevitable, and the sooner
we make up our minds to encourage it
the better. It seems a pity that those
who are behind the scenes in developing
television should lack the encouragement
they deserve.” Australian experimenters
haven’t yet had the opportunity to do
anything at all.
* * * *
“A. 8.”: Suitable as insulating var-
nish for the back plate of the Veletron
microphone (B. 6/4/’3B) is the new
bakelite varnish, now obtainable in Syd-
ney. This is literally liquid bakelite.
Three coats applied in an hour should
do the trick without necessity for heat
treatment.
* :f: * *
“QRM”: Nothing like curing electrical
interference with radio reception at the
source. Commutator motors can be sup-
pressed to a fair extent by the application
of condenser suppressors, but there are
far too many commutator motors of the
small type running on A.C. circuits. There
is little or no technical obstacle in the
way of manufacturers making fractional
h.p. motors of the induction type, and if
only hairdressers’ appliances and other
small motor-driven gadgets had induction
motors instead of commutator “univer-
sal” motors, a large percentage of radio-
inductive interference would disappear.
One of the worst offenders in any suburb
is the vacuum-cleaner, of which there are
now many types with commutator
motors.
* * * *
“Ack Emma”: The British army sig-
nals command has an eye on the possi-
bilities of television for military purposes.
It is realised that much time could be
saved by the development of portable
equipment by means of which visual mes-
sages could be flashed over ranges of a
few miles between generals and divisional
C.Os. Complete messages can be tele-
vised instead of relying on D.Rs., and
the directional nature of the ultra-short-
wave radio link will add to freedom from
jamming when used in conjunction with
the right kind of aerials. Maps, troop
movements and other vital information
could be televised. Research work is now
in hand, but naturally the findings are
secret.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) Reference is made in B. 21/4/’3B to a
magazine “Television and Short-wave World.”
Where can it be obtained? (2) In the Question
Box 2/2/’3B you mention the “1938 A.R.R.L.
Handbook.” Does it give details of aerials,
etc.? (3) Where is it obtainable?— 66s.
(1) You can send subscription direct to the
publishers, Chansitor House, 38 Chancery Lane,
London, W.C.2, 13s. 6d. annually, post free,
or single copies can be had from Angus and
Robertson or Swains, Sydney. (2) Yes. (3)
McGill’s Newsagency, 183 Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
(1) I have built the Universal amplifier (B.
26/2/’36), with one or two minor alterations.
The 10,000 -ohm resistors are not included in the
primary of the Class B driver transformer. Is
there any advantage in this ? (2) 1 have con-
nected the screen direct to H.T. side of the
transformer, and suppressor is tied to cathode.
Is this right ? (3) For a start I did not use
the resistor and .Olmfd. condenser across the
primary of the output transformer, and when
the resistor was., used it began to heat up and
smoke. A 50,000-ohm tyvo-watt resistor steadied
the current through the resistor and condenser,
but the trouble is not cured. What is the
cause? (4) What difference will my connections
to the 89 valves have compared with the triode
connections ? (5) Is the output transformer with
two secondaries any advantage over a trans-
former with one output winding and voice coils
in parallel for two speakers ? —668.
(1) The resistors should be included. They
act as parasitic oscillation suppressors, and
their exclusion is probably contributing to the
trouble in the output. Also, for further pre-
caution, connect a .OOlmfd. mica condenser
across each resistor. (2) This method of con-
nection can be used but will give a mismatch
unless the transformer primary is of extra high
resistance to suit a pentode. (3) Trouble would
appear to be in the condenser and not the re-
sistor. The condenser should be a .01 mica
type. If this is leaky, trouble is sure to be
experienced. (4) More audio gain will be
obtained with the 89 connected as a pentode
provided a match is obtained to the transformer.
(5) This will be quite in order provided that
the one secondary matches the resistance of the
two voice coils in parallel.
* * * *
(1) Is there any method of working out
mathematically the dimensions of a simple cir-
cuit ( closed) containing inductance, capacity and
some form of rectifier so that it would be in
perfect resonance with a given wave-length or
frequency ? (2) Does resistance have any effect
on inductance or is the latter determined only
by the characteristics of the solenoid? (3)
Can a circuit be tuned to a given wave-length
by making up in inductance what it lacks in
capacity? (4) Are there any known methods
of rectifying ultra-high-frequency currents other
than the valve and crystal? For instance, does
a condenser have that effect? —669.
(1) Formulae for determination of an oscil-
latory circuit for a particular frequency gov-
erned by a quartz crystal oscillator would
apply. (2) Yes. At radio frequencies the re-
sistance is much more than it would be for
direct current. (3) Yes. The inductance-capa-
city ratio of a tuned circuit, stated as L/C,
can be either high C with low L or high L with
low C. Both ratios are desirable for certain
applications. In a self-excited oscillator circuit,
high C is desirable for stability, and in a re-
ceiver, low C for efficiency. In a short-wave
receiver small tuning capacities with relatively
large inductances are much more efficient than
where large capacities are used with small in-
ductances. (4) The copper-oxide rectifier can
be used, but this and the crystal are quite in-
effiicient compared with the valve. A condenser
does not rectify.
* * * *
(1) Is radiant heat similar in kind to wireless
waves? (2) What are the approximate wave-
length and frequency limits of the infra-red
band ? (3) Does wave-length vary in direct
proportion with temperature ? (4) Is there any
optimum wave-length which carries more heat?
-—670.
(1) Yes. (2) Infra-red rays are heat rays.
The range is from .04cm. to ,00008 cm. wave-
length. Frequency is 40,000,000 to 8000 Ang-
strom units. (3) Yes. (4) Solar rays are in-
cluded in the infra-red range, and there is more
heat at the higher frequency limit, .00008 cm.
Vi


i
Hnrs
LYS
sk
PROOF
fw»—
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY " LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Not AH Barren.
“Zedo”: Interior N. S. Wales and
parts of southern Queensland are suffer-
ing heavily from the long dry spell; it
now seems unlikely that there will be
enough relief in time to save large num-
bers of valuable sheep. The winter
threatens to be severe.
Condobolin district, which usually
grazes 1,000,000 woollies, has already
suffered heavy losses. In the Wyalong
district some farmers are carting water
seven miles. Small townships are getting
their water by train.
Trees with a bit of leaf on them are
very precious possessions, in some areas.
In others, the scrub has all been lopped.
Back of Condobolin, getting on to the
fringes of the sand country, stock routes
are ribbons of dust, and every wind helps
to bury fences and what little pasture
there is. The best of the district con-
sidered itself lucky with two inches of
rain in four months. In other districts
there has not been that.
Even those who can afford to buy
feed cannot get it. Lucerne chaff is
quoted on Sydney markets in very small
quantities, and the price of Victorian
oaten hay has risen to £lO a ton. Some
owners, however, are giving their neigh-
bors a splendid lesson in how to defy
drought. The judges in the R.A.S.
fodder conservation championship who
have toured N.S.W. within the past few
days have found plenty of cases in the
dry regions in which owners have not
only been able to save their sheep, but
have had enough surplus to allow them
to enter for the R.A.S. competition.
W. H. Swain, president of the Trundle
Agricultural Society, carries 3975
merinos, 60 cattle and 25 horses on 7088
acres with the aid of 150 acres of
lucerne, 700 acres of hay and grazing
oats and about 1000 acres of wheat. He
has been hand-feeding for months, but
still has enough stored fodder to carry
the whole of his sheep through the year.
His sheep are reported practically fat,
and he expects a 70 per cent, lambing.
At Peak Hill, E. G. Hoy struck grass-
hoppers on a large scale on his 1142
acres, and the weather has been such
that without stored fodder it would be
impossible to maintain a head of stock
on the property. As it is, from oats
and other feed grown on the place, he
has been able to feed 650 comebacks
and about 70 large stock for three months
and still has enough on hand for another
three months’ full feeding. .
Other graziers are not so lucky.,There
are suggestions that duties on overseas
grain, hay and bran should be removed.
It is a poor compliment to the Australian
farming industry that with such a diver-
sity of climate and season it cannot at all
times provide emergency feed. The in-
difference of stock-raisers who fail to
insure against drought costs Australia
a good many millions every decade.
From April 1, the N.S.W. railways have
been carrying fodder to every part of the
State where it is needed for drought
relief for Is. Bd. per ton, the difference
between this and normal freight being
borne by the Treasury—ultimately, of
course, by the taxpayer. The concession
is given only when full trucks are sent.
Where farmers themselves are unable to
combine to secure the requisite loads,
local storekeepers and owners are
allowed the concession on consignments
for district sale.
Store-classing Costs.
“C.V.S.”: Using my figures, the total
charge for store preparation of a
15,0001 b. clip would not be “Albar-
mount’s” £29 13s. 9d. (B. 5/5/’3B) but
£l4 Is. 3d., because, as I showed, the
60001 b. of oddments would* not need
treatment.
At present wool- rates -the cost would
equal about one bale of wool—not ex-
cessive for a 50-bale clip. Poor prepa-
ration could easily : cost the grower
three or four bales; but owners who
“Reach the soap y'self, lazybones !”
satisfactorily class their own wool cer-
tainly save money. Brokers will give
an unbiased opinion on the get-up
reclassing.
By drafting out fine- and strong-woolled
sheep in mixed flocks before shearing,
pieces may be kept even enough for
shed picking and sold without further
preparation.
’Even in very small mixed clips, sheep
should be drafted and different grades
of pieces in one bale separated by paper
divisions. Bulk-classing is becoming
more popular, but many owners send
bags of pieces, bellies, lambs, etc., which
need tedious picking. > Separation by
drafting would expedite b.c.. and lead to
reduced charges.
The Purebred and Environment.
“Ghanam”: Environment and here-
dity influence the making of a beast.
Environment embraces the animal’s food,
shelter, training, grazing conditions, etc.
Of course, it affects an animal before it
is born, through the condition of the
dam, but the primary influence is here-
dity.
The best feeding and the most tender
care will not turn an animal without
bone or natural depth into a champion.
The scrub responds to feeding, if healthy,
just as the pure animal, but the feed does
not produce so fine a body of beef or so
large a quantity of milk.
Environment is merely a developer.
At the same time it undoubtedly breeds
tendencies. Stock bred under artificial
conditions or in particular conditions are
specially susceptible to other unaccus-
tomed conditions. And climate and liv-
ing conditions undoubtedly alter body
conformation and other characteristics
very rapidly. The British ancestors of
100 years ago of the present types of
heavy, hard-walking western Queensland
bullocks would scarcely recognise the
latter as their relations.
Controlling Footrot.
“Albarmount”: Investigations by the
C.S. and I.R. reveal that the infecting
agent for footrot in sheep survives only
a short time once removed from its host.
W. I. B. Beveridge, who conducted the
experiments, says that the organism could
pot be demonstrated in infested soil nine
hours after the removal of infected sheep.
Protected by mud or sheep faeces, it might
live a few days, but the investigator’thinks
three weeks the limit.
The disease is typically, contagious. It
occurs most often when feed is flush
and the ground continually wet. Chronic-
ally infected sheep carry the organisms
over the summer months.' Beveridge sug-
gests that footrot can be wiped out dur-
ing this period by removing all infected
sheep from the flock. ;
. All diseased animals would need to be
quarantined and either cured or de-
stroyed. - .There is difficulty, in. detecting
“carriers,” and 'control measures would
have to be - compulsorily enforced or
free properties would become reinfected
from footrot sheep in adjoining lands.
Travelling stock would also need to be
free of the disease. In fact, such rigid
regulations would be necessary that the
results of the experiments should first
be confirmed by further field tests before
control measures are adopted.
More Early Wool History.
“J.E.8.”: “H. Hayseed’s” history of
Macarthur’s connection with the wool
industry (B. 12/5/’3B) needs a few addi-
tions.
John Macarthur did not see much of
his flocks during the developmental years
—he was in England from 1801 to 1805
and again from 1809 to 1817. The brunt
of the work was carried by his wife, who
came of farming stock, and his nephew,
Hannibal Macarthur. When John re-
turned in 1817, he brought with him his
son William, who was a considerably
better sheepman than John. The merino
sheep were then at Elizabeth Farm, Par-
ramatta, and were not moved to the
Cowpastures entirely until 1820. From
that time William managed the stud and
flocks, each of which numbered about
300. From 99,0001 b. in 1820, the wool
export of the colony grew to half a mil-
lion pounds in 1825.
William Macarthur soon improved his
animals in size and fineness of wool. His
stud was kept down to 400 ewes, each
of which was minutely described in a
folio register. Every year each animal
was carefully exam-
ined and its current
description entered.
Details were set down
of pedigree, weight of
clean fleece, quality,
length and character of
every part of the fleece,
length of staple, with
form, size, constitution
and health, and minute
general remarks on any
special characteristics
of the animal or the
wool.
Before a House of
Lords Committee in
1828, T. Ensworth, a
well-known woolbroker,
said that the Macarthur
wool made the finest
clothes ever seen in
England. From the
stud flock, fleeces regu-
larly brought from 4s.
to 7s. 6d. per pound,
and once reached
10s. 4d.
William Macarthur
continued his record-
ing for 30 years. Dur-
ing the whole of that
time there was no dis-
ease whatever in the
stud. The Camdens
w ere a long - living
breed. One ewe gave
the stud 20 lambs —
nine pairs of twins and two single lambs.
Sheep were, of course, shepherded and
placed in hurdles at night. Rams were
put to ewes in October, shearing was in
November, lambing months being March
and April. Fly was unknown, ticks
affected newly-introduced sheep, but soon
left them. Freedom from fly was con-
sidered strange, since meat was blown
as soon as killed. Scab was rampant in
the colony, but not with the Macarthurs.
Before shearing, the sheep were driven
through a clear stream on two or three
successive mornings before being washed.
The Macarthurs dipped theirs individu-
ally in a cauldron of warm water. Wash-
ing was done at a sandy waterhole, in
which every woolly got a sound scrub
over by two men and then was sent
across the stream for a final swim. The
landing-place was bedded with mown
grass, over which the flock was driven
into straw-floored folds and kept there
till the yolk should have time to rise.
Shearing was in the open, and fleeces
{“Land” continued on page 44.)


cisasm
M
HiSSS
:::*<•
m
mm
m
fis
m
tmm
mtt
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD.
Incorporated in N.S.W. - - AE8.48.38.
the improved
ATLANTIC ETHYL
Atlantic Ethyl, Australia's greatest super
fuel, now advances still further in anti-
knock quality!
This increase more than copes with recent
engine developments ... it places the
new Atlantic Ethyl actually ahead of
present fuel requirements! For the
greatest possible performance in any high
compression car ... for your longest
drive—Test the improved Atlantic Ethyl
—to-day!
Atlantic Petrol, too, is advanced in quality. More
definitely than ever it is superior to any other fuel
in its price class, and the correct fuel for all except
high compression cars and trucks!
iETHYLj
.V'"'
Use also
NEW ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL
from pure paraffin base crude


WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
SIX-GANG “SPINNER” TUNING
Exclusive to
ULTIMATE/
QNCE in a while radio takes a step forward, not only in cabinet design, but
also in regard to technical points. Now to match the beauty of Ultimate’s
new “Regent” cabinet finished in rich, highly-figured butt American walnut
Ultimate engineers have perfected a circuit to use a 6-gang tuning condenser
(replacing the 2- and 3-gang conventional type) fitted with a planetary-motion
spinner unit.
O other receiver has all the features any one Ultimate model incorporates . . .
So no other receiver can possibly give you the peerless performance that is
yours to enjoy with an Ultimate.
1938 Features Include: All-wave reception, 320-degree dial, planetary-motion
spinner tuning, separate logging hand pointer, volume-control indicator, ten-inch
Rola reproducers, switches incorporated on volume
controls, bandspread tuning, iron-cored coils and
I.F. transformers, etc.
Sole Australian Concessionaires: .
GEO. BROWN & CO. Pty. Ltd.
Electrical and Industrial Engineers,
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
’Phones: M 2544 (3 lines). Telegraphic Address: Brownlock.
RUSH COUPON FOR FURTHER DETAILS.
Please send me, without obligation, details of the Special
New De Luxe ULTIMATE RECEIVERS.
NAME '
ADDRESS |
(State whether battery or electric.)
i i i
■=*“ i -
We will send You a
FREE Demonstration
Sample.
of AMAZING RE-NU LIQUIR
NU-METAL. Just deposit thru
Plug openings on Pistons.
Reconditions while-u-drive.
Saves RBBORE, ENDS PISTON
SLAP, RATTLES, NOISES,
OIL, PETROL WASTE, RE-
STORES NEW POWER, COMPRESSION, TOP
SPEED, ZIP, etc. GUARANTEED GOOD for 10,000
MILES. HARMLESS FINEST ENGINES. Send for
Trial Tube. Price, 6/6, or we send C.O.D. Anyone
can use it; 20 other lines. Free Samples. Agents
required.
RE-NU LTD.,
Opp. Richmond Station, Melbourne.
(Est. 1932.)
jR
were rolled on the spot to be carried to
the shed for sorting.
Crossbred wools, as distinguished from
stud merino wools, brought from Is. 9d. to
2s. 6d. per pound in the twenties of last
century. Even at that price a modern
wool grower might wonder how flocks so
carefully handled and cutting only about
2\\b. paid.
They did, though—the land cost no-
thing, and convict labor £lO to £l5 per
annum per man. Good rams were worth
from £l5 to £25, best crossbred ewes up
to £5 and coarse ewes about 30s.
Evening Primrose as Fodder.
“Bogaduck”: The evening primrose,
once regarded as a weed, is now a useful
fodder plant in the S.A. Mallee and ad-
jacent areas.
It is a hardy perennial that will grow
almost anywhere, even on hills of white
drift sand that will carry nothing else.
Super, greatly aids it, but is not indis-
pensable. A good stand of primrose will
carry , a sheep to the acre with ease.
Many people have tried to establish
primrose, and have sown down acres to
it without having a single seed germi-
nate. Others have established stands
without the least trouble by sowing seed.
The most effective method appears to
be to get a small plot going, either from
seed or by transplanting from the nearest
existing stand. The plants are very tough,
and young ones can be transplanted in
wet weather as easily as onions.
Wait for the plants to form seed-
heads. When the seedpods are ripe cut
the heads with a scythe or mower, and
scatter over an adjacent area.
A thick growth of young plants fol-
lows, and they in turn can be mown and
the heads used on a fresh piece of
ground. Old evening primrose seed very
seldom germinates, but that which falls
direct from pod to ground seldom fails to
strike.
When planting on loose and drifting
sandhills, best results are obtained by
scattering newly-mown seedstalks over
the area and covering with brush or
boughs to check drift until the primrose
grows.
It also does well among bracken on
sandy ground, and will grow in areas
with a rainfall as low as 12in. Hard
stocking does not kill it out, and a wel-
come feature of the fodder is that rabbits
do not damage it much in spite of the
way in which cows and sheep relish it.
It grows in the winter, but makes its best
growth after a summer rain.
Beekeepers find it an excellent pollen-
plant.
Thousands of acres of sand in the so-
called “desert” between Tailem Bend and
Keith (S.A.) are now under primrose. A
few years ago this same sand country
grew almost nothing in the way of
fodder.
Meat Export Growing.
“Mookau”: Lamb has become an im-
portant Australian export since the de-
pression, and is now worth £5,000,000
p.a. to the Commonwealth. The market
is improving with the gradual trend of
Australian breeders towards Southdown
and other types which are popular with
English buyers.
The same cannot be said for chilled
beef. There has been some advance —
sales last year were 352,953 quarters —
but not nearly sufficient.
The Argentine fills 90 p.c. of the Brit-
ish chilled-beef needs, Australia 5 p.c.
Argentine prices are fd. a pound higher.
What makes the position more unsatis-
factory is that Britain’s imports of frozen
beef, of which Australia supplies about
two-thirds, are only about one-quarter
of chilled-beef imports.
Lamb shipments last year totalled
5,500,000 carcasses, so that the trade has
quadrupled in a decade. It would be
possible to do the same with chilled beef
if southern breeders with land which
would raise 6501 b. carcasses of suitable
conformation and age would get into the
business. While large station cattle from
Queensland produce nearly all the export
meat, the Commonwealth will remain in
the background as a beef-producer.
M.L. Mastitis Campaign.
“Silky Bag”: There is nothing to say
the Maoriland scheme (B. 5/5/’3B) will
prove more successful than many other
such efforts.
The cause of mastitis is still unknown,
so that the campaign is a shot in the
dark. The scheme is based on the theory
that mastitis is contagious and that, if
infected cows are culled, the remainder
will automatically be freed from risk
of infection. This has not been proved.
The Australian C.S. and I.R. is
spending £5,000 a year on research into
the actual source of the complaint. We
know that the same strain of strepto-
cocci that causes serious disease in
one cow’s udder can be recovered from
the milk of another cow which has never
had and is never likely to contract
mastitis. Similarly, placing a few of
the germs inside the teats of a cow free
of them rarely brings on mastitis.
The question is how much mastitis
is due to the contagious nature of the
germ and how much to the lowering of
the cow’s resistance to disease by milk-
ing strain. Most mastitis occurs at
definite times, such as the height of
“flush,” drying-off or immediately after
calving, and is associated with udder-
tissue strain.
N. S. Wales Wheat Prospects.
“Wundi”: The old hands used to sing
about Queensland as “a land of pests,”
but the northern State has nothing on
N.S.W. this year.
’Hoppers have been bad. Some have
survived into the present month, but the
birds have been busy among, them in
some areas.
The Central Tableland had from lin.
to 2in. of rain in April, and, though
stock have suffered, the wheat position
is quite sound, so long as there are
further falls. A heavy germination seems
assured
The Central West has had falls, but
not nearly enough ; much of the wheat
area is worse off than it has been in his-
tory. But on the s.-western slopes nearly
2in. of steady rain has set farmers busily
sowing.
Other regions are not in cheerful con-
dition. There certainly will be no record
crop in any district in 1938.
Fertilising Orchards.
“Hortus”: Don’t let ground get
dirty and then plough weeds under. It’s
best to give the area a godd cultivation
as early as possible, and get it clean by
working the fallow.
Sow green fertiliser early so that the
plants make as much green growth as
possible before being ploughed under.
In orchards up to five years old it is
wise to sow a green crop on all sides
of the trees.
Legumes or peas, beans, lupins, vetches
and clovers give best results. Their out-
standing value is due to their ability to
gather and store nitrogen from the air.
If the season is late, peas may be slow
to make headway. Try tick beans or
peas and beans to get good green bulk
quickly. About \\ bushels to the acre
is ample. Barley and oats are useful,
but are nitrogen-feeders.
If there has been little nitrification
owing to moisture-shortage in surface
soil, use a 1-1 super.-sulph. ammonia mix-
ture. It promotes vigorous crop-growth.
Dog Mange and Eczema.
“Albarmount”: Scab mange is by far
the most common kind, and is readily
identified by the hair falling out in
patches, generally from the muzzle back-
wards. Irritable pimples form on the
skin, and the dog, scratching these, brings
out sores similar to eczema. The skin
hardens and scabs.
Infected dogs should be isolated, the
hair clipped short and the kennels
cleaned and disinfected regularly. Fresh
straw bedding—not bags—should be pro-
vided.
Treatment may have to be continued
for a month, or longer if irritation re-
occurs. Bath daily in a weak solution
of pot. sulph., and after drying dress
the skin with an 8 p.c. salicylic ointment.
Care should be taken to avoid colds.
Feed once a day on milk and raw meat.
Eczema may persist even after the
mange is apparently cured. There are
many kinds, each demanding slightly dif-
ferent treatment. But in all cases bath-
ing should be less frequent, and, as soap
irritates the delicate condition of the
skin, washing soda and hot "water (a
dessertspoon to a quart) should be used.
Apply sulphate of zinc after bathing,
and night and morning paint the skin
with a 1 p.c. solution of picric acid.
“Ghanam”: S. Africa and M.L. have
decided to abolish the wool draft allow-
ance, same as Australian States. But it
is one thing to pass a law and another
to enforce it. Buyers may find some
other way of getting the benefit of a
margin.
“Peter Paw”: The best blowfly and
lamb-marking specific I have struck is a
mixture: 40 p.c. Shell dieselene or
Vacuum 28-38 fuel oil, 55 p.c. fish, her-
ring or cod oil, 5 p.c. cresylic acid, and
sodium arsenite lib. to lOOgal. Mix the
fish oil and sodium arsenite well together
and add the cresylic acid and fuel oil.
The mixture should be well shaken
before using, and shaken occasionally to
keep the sodium arsenite in suspension
while in use.
“Jayem”: The chief reason why most
dairy-farmers don’t raise baby beef (B.
28/4/’3B) is that the plan of using beef
bulls on dairy cows would mean further
deterioration of dairy herds, as heifers
would be kept for milking. Strenuous
efforts are being made to improve the
quality of dairy cattle, but if a beef in-
fusion became general mostLff the work
would go for nothing. Dairying and
beef-raising are separate industries, and
cannot be linked unless dual-purpose
animals, such as Red Polls, are used.


TOOTHS
SHEAF
STOUT
IN BOTTLES-HALF BOTTLES
AND BABY BOTTLES
55.101.48
?n?
80 a A
ip# ■
He knows the
it way
“ell
I -a daily glass
( of Sheaf!


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwf.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.B.W. DIRECTORS:
£: E - Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; .Tames Kidd; .T. Beresford Grant; Colin A Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET)
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written 1
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . .You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart. Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To buy the “Lone Hand” for July, 1911,
January, February, November and December,
1912, and January and September, 1913,-9584.
To buy the four volumes of Nicholson’s
botanical works; must be in good condition. — 1
9560.
Information Sought.
(1) Was Czechoslovakia part of Germany
before 1919. ? (2) What countries is it bounded
by ? (3) What proportion of the population is
German ? (4) Is the form of government demo-
cratic ? (5) How does the standing army com-
pare with Germany’s and with Britain’s ?
9548.
(1) No. It was part of Austria-Hungary. (2)
Germany, Poland, Rumania, Hungary and
Austria. (3) Approximately 30 p.c. (4) Yes.
Czechoslovakia is a republic, with two-Chamber
government and universal adult suffrage. Twelve
parties are represented in its Legislatures, the'
German parties, including Henlein’s, having 32
members out of 150 in the Senate and 66 out
of 300 in the Chamber of Deputies. (5) Czecho-
slovakia’s army at latest date for which figures
are available had a peace-time strength of
180,000. The German army nominally stood
at 500,000 at the same date. In both cases re-
serves could largely swell the total .in war-
time. British army strength as budgeted for
1936-37 was 158,400.
* * * *
Must an unnominated alien ( European )
possess a specified amount of money before
being admitted into Australia? What further
conditions must he comply with, other than
dictation test, before and after entry? —9346.
All persons of foreign nationality desirous of
entering Australia for the purpose of permanent
residence are required to hold landing permits
issued by the Department of the Interior, Can-
berra. Applications for such permits are, as a
rule, given favorable consideration in respect
of white aliens who are without guarantors in
Australia provided that they will engage in
occupations in which there is opportunity for
their absorption without detriment to Austra-
lian workers and that they are in possession of
£2OO (Australian currency) on arrival.
* * * *
Origin of the term “eavesdropper” ? Is
eavesdropping punishable at law ? —9554.
Eavesdrop is that width of ground around a
house or building which receives the rain-water
dropping from the eaves. By an ancient Saxon
law, a landowner was forbidden to erect any
building at less than 2ft. from the boundary of
his land, and was thus prevented from injuring
his neighbor’s house or property by the drip-
ping of water from his eaves. From the Saxon
custom arose the term “eavesdropper,” i.e., any
one who stands within “the eavesdrop” of a
house, hence one who pries into others’ busi-
ness or listens to secrets. At common law
an eavesdropper was regarded as a common
nuisance, and was presentable at the court leet,
and indictable at the Sheriff’s tourn and punish-
able by fine and finding sureties for good be-
havior. Though the offence of eavesdropping
still exists at common law, there is no modern
instance of a prosecution or indictment.
* * * *
Some particulars about radium ? —9484.
Radium was discovered by Madame Curie in
1898 while working with her husband on the
radioactivity of uranium compounds. The
most profitable source of the element is pitch-
blende. About one gram of radium is yielded
by six tons of pitchblende, and the present
price is about £15,000 per gram. Other sources
are the carnotite and autuntite mines (U.S.A.).
The element is generally sold in the form of the
chloride or bromide, both of which are white
salts. A product of the disintegration of radium
is radon, a chemically inert gas, resulting from
the expulsion of alpha particles. There are two
forms of therapeutic treatment by radium.
In the first, the radioactive emanation radon is
used, either by inhalation or in the form of a
liquid solution. The treatment for accessible
cancerous growths depends on the use of
gamma rays, small quantities of radium bromide
or chloride being enclosed in a small platinum
needle, an appliance which has the power of
absorbing the alpha particles emitted. The
needle is inserted near the seat of the growth,
when the gamma rays ionise the atoms of the
tissues and break them up. The effect of this
treatment is exactly similar to that produced
by X-rays, but the gamma rays are “harder,”
i.e., more penetrating, than X-rays, and their
effect can be more accurately localised by the
use of the application described. The treat-
ment is a matter for an expert, since the
gamma rays destroy healthy tissue if treatment
is prolonged, and sores may be produced which
lead to cancerous growths.
* * * *
(1) What are the respective heating values
of wood, oil and coal? (2) Are there machines
suitable for grinding down stone to the fine-
ness of sand; if so, cost and where obtainable 3
(3 ) Cost per cub. yd. of ground stone ? —9524.
(1) It is safe to assume that of dry wood
is equal to lib. average quality of soft coal
and that the fuel value of the same weight of
different woods is nearly the same. The wood
must be dry, as each 10 p.c. of water or
moisture in wood will detract about 12 p.c.
of its value as a fuel. Assuming 19,000 B.T.U.
per pound of oil, then lib. of oil will be
equivalent to from 1.21 b. to 1.91 b. of coal, de-
pending ujon the calorific value of the coal.
These figures are subject to considerable varia-
tion. (2) Yes, obtainable from Armstrong-
Holland Pty., Ltd., 4 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Cost will depend upon size of stone and ton-
nage required per hour. Machines cost from
£175 without engine. (3) Depends upon con-
ditions mentioned in (2).
* * * *
My wristlet watch keeps good time when laid
on a table, but goes intermittently when worn
on the wrist. Is this due to body electricity
that affects the mechanism 3 —9545.
No electrical effect. Heat may have a slight
effect in cases where compensated balances are
not used, but in nearly every case of this
nature the cause is due to a faulty escapement,
the trouble being accelerated by the movement
of the wrist.
* * * *
Origin of the word “dunce” ? —9546.
The word is derived from the name of the
great schoolman, John Duns Scotus, whose
works on logic, theology and philosophy were
accepted textbooks in the universities from the
fourteenth century. “Duns” or “Dunsman”
was a name early applied by their opponents to
the followers of Duns Scotus, the Scotists, and
hence was equivalent to one devoted to sophis-
tical distinctions and subtleties. When, in the
sixteenth century, the Scotists obstinately
opposed the “new learning,” the term “duns”
or “dunce” became, in the mouths of the
humanists and reformers, a term of abuse, a
synonym for one incapable of scholarship, a
dull blockhead.
* ❖ * Hi
At a euchre tournament one set came a
tie, five all, just as the gong went. One side
said it was the winner because it scored
the five first. The other side did not agree,
and wanted to play one more hand. Which was
right 3—9463.
Up to Date (this year’s edition) says:
“Ties may be decided by cutting, or, where
games won are scored, one half game may be
scored for each player. Or the players having
won their points first may progress.” It is
one of those points that should be settled before
piay commences.
* * * *
Personnel of N.S.W. Cabinet 3—9541.
B- S. B. Stevens (Premier and Treasurer),
M. F Bruxner (Deputy Premier and Transport),
H. E. Manning (Attorney-General), E. S
Spooner (Works and Local Government), D. H.
Drummond (Education), J. M. Dunningham
(Labor and Industry), R. S. Vincent"'(Mines
and Forests), L. O. Martin (Justice), H. M.
Haw Kins (Social Services), H. P. FitzSimons
(Health), G. C. Gollan (Chief Secretary), C. A.
Sinclair (Lands), A. D. Reid (Agriculture), A.
Mair (Assistant Minister), A. Richardson (Hon-
orary Minister).
* * * *
When and where was the Sorata stranded, and
r ,S !lie decision of the marine inquiry?
The Orient line s.s. Sorata was stranded near
Cape Jervis light on September 3, 1880. In-
quiry was held at Adelaide in January, 1881
but it was decided that the board had no juris-
diction. She was ashore for 10 weeks, then
refloated, and was repaired in Melbourne.
* * * *
(1) Has it been proved that cancer is or is
not contagious among sheep? (2) Is sheep-
cancer contagious to humans? (3) If not,
would the blood from a cancerous sheep get-
ting on a human’s cut have any harmful
effect on the human?— 9l9o.
(1) No. (2) Not known. (3) Not known.
No research on the subject is being prosecuted
in Australia, but you may obtain further infor-
mation by writing to the Commonwealth De-
partment of Health.
* * * *
(1) Treatment for stinging-tree stings? (2)
Treatment for fracteur headache ?—'9298
(1) Hot fomentations of salt solution (one
teaspoon to the pint) or of Epsom salts (same
strength). A sedative may be necessary—barbi-
tone 5 grains, aspirin 10 grains—or even an
injection of morphine. (2) The drugs employed
commonly for this condition are veramon,
caffeine and codeine. It is necessary to present
a prescription from a physician before such
remedies can be dispensed.
* * * *
(1) What is bloocl pressure? (2) Is there a
cure for excessive blood pressure? —9l97.
(1) High blood pressure is the term applied
to a condition in which the tension of the blood
in the arteries, particularly in the small vessels
called arterioles, is increased. (2) Once the
disease is established, structural changes occur
in the arterial walls and in other organs. No
cure is then possible. Palliative treatment de-
pends upon the use of drugs which relieve the
pressure by causing the affected vessels to dilate;
patients also benefit by avoiding strain and
effort, either physical or mental.
* * * *
Cause of and treatment for warts ? —9508.
Warts are small tumors of the epithelial
layers of the skin with a connective tissue core.
In many cases they are infective. Treatment is
governed by position, character and number.
Large warts in sites where scarring is not im-
portant should be excised. Electrolysis gives
the best results in the case of small warts on
the face of recent appearence. Larger growths
are conveniently treated by carbon dioxide freez-
ing, in which a stick of carbon dioxide snow is
applied to the eminence of the growth, which
is then frozen throughout without involving
healthy skin. lonisation is also a successful
means of treating large flattish patches. Nitric
acid is very effective, painted carefully on the
wart with a glass rod, but it frequently leaves
unsightly scars. Where warts are very numerous,
X-rays are often used with excellent results.
Some internal remedies, especially Epsom salts
(one drachm three times a day) have been
recommended by several observers.
* *■ t- t.
I have an antignon vine (at present covered
with pink flowers) that has never been pruned.
What is the best thing to do with it? —9sB7.
In August cut it down to within a foot of the
ground. When new growth shoots out in
Qctober pack plenty of rotted manure around
the base of the vine. Once firmly established
the antignon thrives and flowers more pro-
fusely by hard cutting every year.
* * * *
How can I rid my rose bushes of white scale,
which this year has attacked them badly? —•
9602.
After pruning the roses (about mid-June in
warm areas and late-July in cold districts),
wash the stems with lime-sulphur solution. A
small brush fixed to a stick is excellent for
the purpose. If unable to get the mixture, paint
the stems with thin starch or limewash, if
possible on a warm day.
$ $ $ ' $
How to plant and cultivate kurrajong? —•
9483.
Kurrajong seed can be sown in the open
ground, and any reasonably good garden soil
is suitable for the purpose. Sow in rows lOin.
or 12in. apart, placing the seeds lin. to 2in.
apart in the rows, and cover to a depth of lin.
to with soil. When the plants are 6in.
or Bin. high they can be transferred to other
beds to allow to develop before planting out,
or they can be placed straightway in their
permanent positions if they can be given a
certain amount of care for a time. Winter is
the best time to transplant.
* * * *
(1) Diet for a Scotch terrier pup, age seven
months? Too much meat does not appear to
agree with Scotties in Queensland. (2) Would
milk-arrowroot biscuits be harmful? (3) What
causes distemper, and best means of preventing
same? (4) Names of books on care and train-
ing of dogs, and where procurable? —9s67.
(I) Three meals each day—at 10 a.m., 4 p.m.
and 8 p.m. For the first give table scraps
(cooked meat), with wholemeal biscuits or
Spratt’s “Weetmeat.” For the second meal
give broken dog-biscuit mixed with a beaten
egg and a small quantity of milk. At the
evening meal the dog may have raw beef or
minced chuck steak, with some broken biscuit
and a little scraped carrot. (2) Not advisable.
(3) Distemper is an acute infective fever
affecting all the mucous membranes but
chiefly those of the respiratory tract. The signs
are inflammation of the eyes, throat, nose, lungs
and intestine, with nervous derangement. The
actual cause is a virus so small that it cannot
be seen under the microscope. The best means
of prevention are good food and the avoidance
of affected dogs. It is now asserted that dogs
may be immunised against the disease by the
injection of specific serums. (4) Write to
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, for list. The
Complete Book of the Dog, by Robert Leigh-
ton, 165., and The Dog-owner’s Manual, by
Josephine Z. Rine, 10s., are recommended.
* * * *
(1) Bowlers and their figures when Bradman
scored 236 in 1930 and 206 in 1934 v. Wor-
cestershire ? (2) Grimmett’s bowling figures in
these matches? —9593.
1930—Root, 43 overs, 9 maidens, 112 runs,
2 wickets; Jackson, 25, 1, 105, 1; Gilbert, 4,0,
30, 0; Brook, 36, 1, 148, 4; Wright, 18, 1,
68, 0; Gibbons, 2,0, 21, 0. 1934—Perks, 26,
2, 83, 2; Jackson, 30, 4, 95, 2; Martin, 14, 4,
41, 1; Brook, 22, 2, 114, 1; Howorth, 23, 0,
135, 4. (2) Grimmett’s bowling figures were
4 for 38 and 5 for 46 in 1930 and 5 for 53
and 5 for 27 in 1934.
* * * *
(1) What were the runs for the fall of each
wicket when Australia scored 701 in the fifth
Test at Kennington Oval in 1934 ? (2) Who
were the umpires in the 1934 Tests in England ?
—9599.
(1) One for 21, 2 for 472, 3 for 488, 4 for 574,
5 for 626, 6 for 631, 7 for 638, 8 for 676, 9 for
682, 10 for 701. (2) First Test, Dolphin and
Chester ; second Test, Hardstaff . and Chester;
third Test, Hardstaff and Walden; fourth Test,
Hardstaff and Dolphin; fifth Test, Chester and
Walden.
* * * *
(1) When and where did Fred Kay and
Milburn Saylor have their first fight in Aus-
tralia ? (2) They had two contests in this
country. Did Kay win them both, and how
many rounds were theyl —9486.
(1) At Melbourne Stadium on May 16,
1914. (2) Kay outpointed Saylor in both con-
tests, which were 20-round ones.
Brief Answers.
T.C.: You leave much to conjecture. If the
money from the foreign country passed into
the lady’s estate, as probably it did, when she
died intestate the estate would be divisible
one-third to her husband and two-thirds among
the children, share and share alike. When the
husband died, also intestate, the same rule
applied in his case. As to any surviving grand-
children, they would probably take per stirpes
—that is to say, their parents’ portion would
be divided equally among them —but the case
is one for a legal adviser with all the facts
before him G.A.C.: Write Under-Secretary,
Dept, of Mines, Brisbane... .E.N.M.: Write
Under-Secretary, Prime Minister’s Dept., Can-
berra, F.C.T 8.G.0.: The questions are
too extensive. Suggest you send queries to
the secretary, Vic. Cricket Assn., Flinders-
street, Melbourne, since most of the players
were Victorians. The N.S.W. Cricket Assn,
does not attempt to compile averages of players
other than in Sheffield Shield and Test cricket.
.... E.J.8.: (1) Yes. (2) From 2*d. to 4jrd. per
line, according to page of appearance, size of
type and width of column. (3) Upon publica-
tion. (4) Contributor is expected to claim for
payment. (5) Either address will serve, but
the postal authorities prefer the use of the
G. box number W.S.: Copyright can
be effected by lodging a copy of the work with
the Copyright Office, Commonwealth Bank
Chambers, Martin-place, Sydney, filling in the
necessary application forms and paying a regis-
tration fee of 5s 8.C.: Suggest you write
Under-Secretary, Dept, of Labor and Industry,
Sydney....J.D.: Apply Registrar-General’s
Office, corner Queen and Lonsdale streets, Mel-
bourne. Search fee 2s. 6d., and 6d. per folio
of 72 words for office copy... .R.S.K.: You
cannot claim against shareholders individually.
Your claim is against the company. If it is
not going to operate probably the best course
would be to have a voluntary winding-up.
You could then claim as a creditor for money
expended on its behalf. Every member is liable
to contribute to the assets of the company to
an amount sufficient for the payment of its
debts and the cost of winding-up... .E.M.L.:
These notes were recalled and have no value.
B.H.: Questions very vague. Write to
the promoters L.M.W.: The paper has no
commercial value in Sydney G.E.M.: Trailer
Engineering, by Kuns, 6s. 6d., post free from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .G.R.S.: The
number of sheep in 1902 in N.S.W. was
26,649,424, and in Australia 53,675,210. The
number of cattle in 1902 in N.S.W. was
1,741,226, and in Australia 7,062,742....
D.J.O’C.: (1) Sydney. (2) Approximately £1 per
1000. (3) Value of papers assessed by newspaper
offices. (4) Only sold for cash. Bill of sale is
permissible. (5) Yes... .L.H.H.: Yes; Over-
land, Ltd., 358-386 Wickham-street, Valley,
Brisbane... .C.M.: (1) Champion hacks at the
Royal Easter Show, Sydney, for the past four
years have been: 1935, Lady Luxton’s Black
Watch ; 1936, L. F. Young’s Jones ; 1937 and
1938, Mrs. W. G. Giblin’s Trooper. (2) No
record of a first-prize win as a hack by Fujisan
in the last three years... .A.D.E.: Oswald-
Sealy and Co., 265 Clarence-street; J. M. Todd,
Ltd., 137-139 Clarence-street; Wm. Brooks
and Co., 35 Pitt-street —all Sydney... .H.D.:
See Moulton and Pasvoesky’s War Debts and
World Prosperity, issued by Brookings Insti-
tution of U.S.A L.T.P.: The squid is a
marine animal belonging to the same group as
the octopus, but has 10 arms instead of eight.
The animals grow to a very large size; the
lengthened arms in some cases attain a
length of 40ft. In America octopuses are also
called squid W.C.L.: (1) and (2) Yes
H. : (1) The Q’land scholarship examination
is held to select pupils for entrance to secondary
schools. The standard is approximately one
year’s work beyond the primary final in N.S.W.
(2) The Q’land Junior is approximately equiva-
lent to the Intermediate in N.S.W. (3) The
Q’land Senior is approximately equivalent to
the Leaving in N.S.W J.C.D.: Consult the
files of the “Daily Guardian” in the N.S.W.
Public Library... .W. 8.: So long as the land
stands in your name you are liable for rates.
You might be able to dispose of it through
a land and estate agent G.R.: In the
circumstances you will have to pay the trans-
mission fees... .J. 8.: (1) It is not permissible
to play golf on a public road, and any injury
to the person or property of anyone lawfully
using the road by a golf-player would be
actionable. You might call the attention of
the local governing body to the practice. (2)
The company would be entitled to charge in-
terest in accordance with the usual scale. (3)
Cannot recommend any particular company.
(4) He cannot inspect the will till after the death
of the maker. (5) The information, which must
be laid within six months of the happening of
the offence, must be laid against the person
soliciting... .J.S.P.: Clouston on his recent
flight to Australia stopped at Cairo, Basra,
Allahabad, Penang, Singapore and Darwin
P. 0.5.: (1) Exact figures not available locally.
You will have to write to London. (2) The
1916 conscription referendum included 133,813
votes by members of the A.1.F., of which
72,399 were for, 58,894 against and 2520
informal. The 1917 conscription referendum
included 199,677 votes by members of the
A.1.F., of which 103,789 were for, 93,910
against and 1978 informal T.H.: There are
a number of other systems which are taught
by various business colleges in Sydney and
Melbourne. Cannot make comparisons.


‘The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
m
rpULU
the Rubber
Band to
C Open. J
All in the patent
Ever fresh 2-oz . tins at 2/6.
Don’t think of changing
If you have found a Tobacco
which takes the place of true and
trusted friends, and sometimes (if
need be) even of food or drink—
be thankful ♦ ♦ ♦ don't think of
changing*
But, if you are still seeking such
a Tobacco, one that you want to
discover for yourself and forever
cAt all good tobacconists . . . ask for
The Ideal Tobacco
after cleave to ♦ ♦ ♦ try one of the
cheery, chummy, fully satisfying
Barney blends*
There are three: Punchbowle,
a full strength Barneys; Barneys,
the ideal medium strength; and
Parsons Pleasure, the mild blend.
All are equally good, differing
only in strength to suit the palate
of the discerning pipe smoker*
UlB7O
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Chandni Chowk”: In stating that the
Indian diamond fields are practically
exhausted (B. 28/4/’3B), “1.D.8.” dis-
plays an innocence not quite in keeping
with his pen-name. The mines of
Golconda still hold as many high-class
gems as have been taken out of them,
but the De Beers co., which long ago
acquired the rights over them, is keep-
ing them out of production. British
Guiana also has been proved to be
lousy with diamonds of the first water,
but the Government of the colony sets
its face rigidly against wholesale develop-
ment.
* * * *
“Tommie Hawk”: Racial friction in
N.Q. isn’t confined to the feeling among
some Britons against Southern Euro-
peans. The Finns in N.Q. look with dis-
favor on the Swedes, under whose
domination they were for hundreds of
years; and the intense purge now carried
on in bilingual Finland for the eradica-
tion of the Swedish language and every-
thing Swedish is reflected, even in far-
off Australia, in a certain coolness be-
tween the two nationalities. Then the
Yugoslavs have a long-standing snout on
the Italians for having grabbed Fiume,
and the Albanians are beginning to frown
on the Italians because of Mussolini’s
growing domination over their country.
Finally, the Spaniards in N.Q. are hotly
divided among themselves on the civil-
war question. No wonder the League
of Nations fell to pieces.
* * * *
Transvaal Chamber of Mines, while
refusing the white miners’ demand for a
cost-of-living allowance, proposes to
grant them further monetary benefits at
an estimated cost of £500,000 a year. The
basis of the proposal, acceptance of
which is recommended by union rep-
resentatives, is inauguration of a sav-
ings bank into which employers will
pay ss. a week for each miner and
2s. 6d. for each apprentice. It may
be drawn without interest after three
months, and with interest at 3 p.c. p.a.
after 12 months.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: South Australia’s G.
H. Wilkins would be the last person to
admit to any element of desperate adven-
ture in the voyage by submarine across
the North Pole for which his preparations
are almost complete. In fact, he has
stated that he regards it as the safest
way of reaching the Pole. Nansen’s ver-
dict, since confirmed by other observers,
was that the ice in the main Arctic basin
is nowhere more than 14ft. thick. Byrd,
Amundsen and others, including Wilkins,
found the ice-surface extensively broken
up by leads of clear water, of great help
to a sub. Blizzards and landing risks
form grave dangers to aeroplanes, and
the grind of pack-ice under wind and
current will crush the strongest ship—
as happened to the Franklin expedition
and many another. All these are avoid-
able by a submersible craft. Wilkins’s
plan comprises departure from Spitz-
bergeri under picked weather prospects,
and an average passage of 50 miles daily
to the Behring Sea, with some days at
the Pole.
* * * «
“Koura”: Maoriland’s most historic
bathtub (B. 5/5/’3B) is at Hawera. Every
morning this celebrity went to use it
he found the landlady feeding the cat
in it. It was in the same district
that a dairy-farmer made history by
docking sixpence off the boy’s wages
every time he wanted a tub. Even that,
though, was better than dozens of English
laborers’ cottages and quite a few Lon-
don boarding-houses, where there simply
aren’t any bathtubs to be historic.
$ $ sfc H*
The Australian women’s tennis team
experienced the real thing in English
country-house hospitality while playing
at Bournemouth. With tennis and other
notables they were guests of Major and
Mrs. Sloane-Stanley at their sixteenth-
century house in the New Forest. At
meals four footmen saw that none of
the young players went hungry on to
the courts, and there was a maid apiece
to attend to the pressing of tennis
culottes. And the girls had a car at their
disposal to take them backwards and
forwards 28 miles to Bournemouth.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J.R.: Pretty ladies, but crinolines are out.
N.C.: “Only an amateur typist”?
T.P.: No laurels either E.D.V.C.: Can’t
equal Gabriel’s enthusiasm M.D.: “Shadows
gathereth” everywhere M.M.: Forcible, any-
how:—
If we.had the guts to do just what
Our fathers used to do
We’d hang the politician
Who dared to raise his screw.
M. de V.G.: Not a bad “Time”... .M.H.:
It’s not a commercial “Traveller”
C.C.McN.: Held for consideration L.D.F.:
Religious verse unsuitable T.E.McC.: Rough
“Weather” T.P.W.: Always glad to inspect
“an effort to catch in verse those evanescent
flashes of beauty that fire the soul in the presence
of the magnificent in Nature” A.S.M.: Try
for shorter lines and more point.... C.Y.:
“Loppin’” falls short T.W.D.: “And seeing
ships and ’planes To him was nothing strange.”
Not even the rhyme?... .W.R.McK.: “Roll
Your Swag, Roll Your Swag, Roll Your Swag”
coming back, coming back, coming back
R.E.8.: Fair material clumsily treated C.N.:
Finishes in the clouds... .F.0.R.: Weak....
H.F.: Hardly a yarn W.L.: No P.T.M.:
You’re wasting your time... .F. 8.: Not bad
for his age L.T.N.: Of the 928,729 ways
of treating that subject you chose the worst,
C.R.F.: Doubt if you’d publish it anywhere
except in a volume of short stories H.T.L.:
“Sam Smith’s Hens” are doing their best in
the w.p.b 8.T.: Don’t like those or any-
thing like them L.S.A.: No time for spoilt
children... .V.R.: Nor for your “mincing little
minx” G.N.D.: Broadly speaking, about 14
years... .F.N.R.:Read some good short stories,
then try again... .P.D.C.: Light satire’s too
heavy T.S.N.: Neat typing K.L.Y.: Send
'em back to America.... .G.H.W.: Windy
C.T.: Touched by small child’s lurv affair....
H.T.N.: Interred with other relics of the last
century... .C.L.G.: And that’s not a “timely
revival” at any time C.N.T.: Thanks for
the explanation; we often wonder how those
things are written H.S.: Interest too local.
....D.F.L.: Suggest you look up your Shak-
speare N.R.P.: Deciphered two pages, then
gave it up... .G.1.W.: You would probably do
better if you wrote one yarn a month, not
three a week C.8.E.: Revise and cut it by
half, then try again... .D.C.: We were just
daring to hope that that prospector had died
for the last time... .8.M.D.: Sending it home
with other old friends.. . .S.T.N.: Try London
magazines... .L.F.U.: You’ll need to hang better
coverings on those skeletons before they see
print R.F.N.: Gory G.K.T.: Don’t like
Amurrican gangsters L.R.: Not that one;
try something lighter N.T.L.: A. C. Head-
ley did the same thing a few months ago
T.C.8.: Sufficiently saccharine for a flapper
mag D.C.M.: A little out of date 8.D.:
Usual hash of wills, murders and amateur
sleuthing 8.L.P., J.K. and F.C.R.: Try them
elsew'here....W.M.: Interesting, but can’t say
where you could place it 0.E.W.: Yours,
similarly.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.W.: Picture of half-feathered emu gazing
mournfully at a broken egg was rejected in
record time.... M.T.: Thick, heavy strokes mar
an otherwise neat drawing... .S.L.: Still re-
covering from the shock of seeing that curious
lot.. ..J.L.M.Your spare time could be better
employed S.N.: Caricatures of members of
Federal Cabinet are all unrecognisable....
T.H.: Gags need to be crisp and to the point;
sketches require a lot more polish... .B.B.:
Work is improving, but very slowly J.F.C.:
Treat you leniently! Why? E.T.: No space
here for your badly-shaped bathers N.FI.H.:
Take away your twelve-foot cow and the man
who looks like a crumpled step-ladder.
. ...W.E.D.: What made you think it would
make us laugh? .... J.P.: Too foggy for success-
ful reproduction E.G.: Both figures appear
to be encased in strait-jackets... .J.K.: “Is the
idea 0.K.?” No. “Do you like the drawing?”
No L. 8.: Tame that unruly style a little
and you’ll get close to print level R.T.T.:
Search any English magazine around Christmas-
time and you’ll find a variation of that old
wheeze R.W.: We may be seeing things,
but it looks more like three elephants than
one to us... .D. 8.: Figures are lifeless, and the
gag falls short... .N.T.: Having drawn one
telegraph pole you drew another, wrapped a
dress around it and called it a woman
GJ.D.: Closed the door to that drunk with a
lobster on a leash L.W.: Withered lady
and wooden gent, both consigned to the w.p.b.
J.M.M.: Far-fetched joke and one of the
most infantile drawings of the week... .C.C.:
No perch here for the plucked hen who quali-
fied for admission to the nudist c010ny....
A.U.T.: An ancient bar-room chestnut and a
tenth-rate sketch W.R.S.: Picture of dog
chasing its own tail merely made us yawn....
W.F.W.: That’s an old ’un... .PA.: The more
we looked at it the more confusing it became.
G.F.: Chess players were checkmated by
the Art Editor J.O’F.: You’ve taken a ten-
foot statue and tried to fit it into a dog-kennel.
C.D.: So long since we heard that old
chestnut we thought that it had been com-
pletely forgotten J.E.: What is the lady
nursing—baby or watermelon? 8.J.: All
your figures appear to have been run through
a mangle K.M.: Picture of corpse in Cen-
tralia is not amusing J.C.: Getting closer.
V.A. Scratches.


This i
s perhaps the most important
announcement Humber have fver made
Whilst world prices rise. / lfumber present a
m- IF*
range of cars built to file high stAfidards of
quality always associ
prices made possible
resources as R
i
H
. m
high
of
ui
rs
H
class
few
the Yje
HUMBER SNIPE
HUMBER set out to challenge the low-priced big-car
market ... to introduce a car that was pre-eminently
Humber in design and workmanship, yet which sold at a
competitive price. The new HUMBER SNIPE is the result.
With its supreme distinction and masterly style is allied the
magnificence that appertains to the most luxurious cars
in the world. And, in the greatest occasions of our time and
history and in the proudest company, the HUMBER SNIPE
and its owner are in the position of highest respect.
DISTRIBUTORS :
Queensland:
jchn mcgrath ltd.
35S Wickham Street,
Valley, Brisbane.
South Australia:
DEVONSHIRE MOTORS LTD.
71 Franklin Street,
Adelaide.
OVERSEAS MOTORS PTY. LTD.
222 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
Tasmania:
0. L. HOLLIS MOTORS
York Street,
Launceston.
\V. Australia:
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO.
900 Ray Street, Perth.
N.S.W.:
JOHN MCGRATH LTD.
155 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.
NHU4
World Exporters :
HootES”
Devonshire House, Piccadilly, London
Australian and N.Z. Representative
C. E. BLAYNEY
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
XIII.
. Mr. Pew did not brood over his failure
to get a popular majority for his conscrip-
tion plan. He came to the instant de-
cision that, if the war were to be won,
it was necessary for him to remain Prime
Minister. Mr. Pease, the Minister of
Defence, agreed with him ; and so did
Mr. Yon Yonson, the Minister for the
Navy, and Mr. Yapster, the hero of the
eight-hour speech.
The difficulties seemed tremendous.
Mr. Pease, Mr. Yonson and Mr. Yapster
were the only Ministers that Mr. Pew
could now count on, Mr. Meagher and
Mr. O’Farrelly having followed the four
who resigned before the referendum.
Parliament had been summoned, and
there must be a pre-sessional party meet-
ing, at which anti-conscriptionists would
be in the majority.
Melbourne, then the seat of govern-
ment, was the scene of the party meet-
ing. It did not last long, little eloquence
being expended one way or the other,
but there was action enough for all
hands.
By virtue of his office, Mr. Pew was
chairman. Mr. Finnanhaddock, a long,
lean teetotaller from Kilsyth, was the first
to catch his eye. «■
Saying “We hae coom here wi’ minds
made oop,” Mr. Finnanhaddock handed
the chairman a written motion to the
effect “that the Prime Minister, Mr. Pew,
no longer possesses the confidence of the
party as leader, and the office of chair-
man be and is hereby declared vacant.”
With that, Mr. Finnanhaddock sat
down, remarking audibly to a neighbor,
who had whispered a remonstrance, that
it was “nae use beatin’ aboot the bush.”
Mr. Hannigan seconded the motion.
Mr. O’Fief, a Senator from Tasmania,
suggested a conference of members of
the party organisation, six from each
State, with power to decide whether
Ministers should continue in office or
hand their resignations to Caucus, the
six who had resigned to be meanwhile
reappointed. He embodied this in an
amendment.
Mr. O’Fief was an “anti.” Mr. Charlie-
brown, another “anti,” from New South
Wales, submitted a second amendment
designed “to effect a reconciliation.”
There was little support for Mr.
O’Fief’s proposal and less for Mr.
Charliebrown’s.
All eyes turned to Mr. Pew. The
time had come for him to put the motion,
and everyone knew how the motion
would fare.
With a great effort Mr. Pew had re-
strained himself from interrupting Mr.
Finnanhaddock and the other speakers.
Fumbling with his papers, he spoke at
last. He said “Let all who support me,
follow me.”
Then Mr. Pew slid back his chair,
rose, grabbed his papers and stalked
towards the door, followed by Mr. Pease,
Mr. Yonson, Mr. Yapster, and 20 others.
Forty-one were left in the room. They
scornfully answered the cheer which Mr.
Pew’s followers raised as they stamped
out; and, when the excitement had sim-
mered down a bit they appointed Mr.
Intruder, the first seceder from Mr. Pew’s
Government, to the vacant place.
Mr. Pew met Parliament with a
Mexican-army Administration which he
was pleased to call National Labor. He
had twelve supporters in the House of
Representatives; seven were Ministers,
and another was Chairman of Commit-
tees. There were 11 Senators in his
group ; three were Ministers, a fourth
was President and a fifth Chairman of
Committees.
At this interesting stage of his career
Mr. Pew was described as “a furtive
figure, flitting surreptitiously to and fro
in an atmosphere of mystery, hopping
from wire to wire, springing from bough
to bough, bamboozling himself and try-
ing to humbug everyone else.”
Actually, he knew what he was about.
He was negotiating with his old enemies
the Liberals.
At first he thought he could carry on
without them. One of his followers,
attending a meeting of conscriptionists at
which the formation of a Win-the-War
party was suggested, had moved “that the
Prime Minister and the Leader of the
Opposition, Mr. Cluck, be advised of the
proposed action and consulted as to the
meeting place.” To a former Liberal
Minister who had been asked to see
him, Mr. Pew had nevertheless said: “I
do not favor the suggestion that my
party should join with the Liberals ; I
propose to form a new Labor party.”
But there was no hope of regaining
control of the existing Labor organisa-
tion. A new one could be improvised,
but funds were lacking, and workers in
the cause were not numerous. The
Liberals were amply supplied with both.
Within a month Mr. Pew had waived
his objections to a coalition in deference
to the larger interests of his country.
On January 9, 1917, the National
Federation came into being. Soon some
of the States, as well as the Common-
wealth, had Nationalist parties whose
minds were set on one object, “victory
over the Central Powers.”
There were some dissentients among
the Liberals, particularly in South Aus-
tralia. There a Liberal Assemblyman,
member for a district in which there
were many Germans, and more sons
and grandsons of Germans, uttered a
public protest against the votes cast by
the Germans at the conscription referen-
dum being “earmarked,” pointing out
that his Germans had, in nearly every
case, been longer in Australia than Mr.
Pew or Mr. Cluck.
The South Australian member was
prosecuted under Mr. Pew's War Pre-
cautions Act for having “made state-
ments calculated to cause disaffection.’
Although he was of unspotted Anglo-
Saxon descent and had three sons at
the front, he was fined £lO and bound
over to keep the peace.
In South Australia, after a brief truce,
Mr. Pew’s Labor followers were forced
into opposition, and their first appear-
ance at a State election as a separate
group was their last. Nor did the
Nationalist cause prosper in Queensland
State politics, the party in which Mr.
Theophilus was a shining light—wholly
anti-conscriptionist since the withdrawal
of Mr. Adamzad —remaining in full
control.
And an unfriendly note was struck by
an anti-Labor editor. He morosely sug-
gested to Mr. Cluck and Mr. Watteau
and their associates that the opportunity
of a lifetime had been presented to them
on a platter and they were flinging it
away ; that the circumstances made an
early election inevitable, and if they kept
out of the miserable Labor wrangle they
could win it hands down—carry every
State and rule Australia for 10 years.
As it was, they were siding with the
weaker of two utterly discredited factions
and were taking for their leader a mere
bag of wind. They would be committed
to a nerveless direction of the nation’s
war effort, to mushy iexperiments in
socialism which they had hitherto
opposed and to a continuance of the
wild waste which had characterised the
administration of Mr. Yonson and Mr.
Pease.
These representations were unavailing.
Mr. Pew formed a National Ministry,
in which he included Mr. Pease, Mr.
Yonson, Mr. Yapster and Mr. Bustle.
Mr. Bustle was one of the three Minis-
ters who had resigned as a protest against
the referendum regulations, for object-
ing to which the South Australian Liberal
was fined £lO and bound over to keep
the peace, but in the intervening three
months he had discovered that he could
never desert Mr. Micawber Pew.
Mr. Cluck was second in command,
and was graciously permitted by Mr.
Pew to have five other Liberal Ministers.
Though Mr. Cluck was named Minister
for the Navy, Mr. Yonson being trans-
ferred to Trade and Customs, the direc-
tion of the war effort was left in the
hands of Mr. Pew and Mr. Pease.
The Pew-Cluck Government was in a
minority of four in the Senate. In ordi-
nary circumstances this would have been
embarrassing, but Nature soon redressed
the balance. An epidemic of sickness
broke out among the anti-conscription
Senators from Tasmania, Mr. Yonson’s
State. *
Mr. Rahilly was the first to be over-
come. Young, active and enthusiastic,
Mr. Rahilly was chairman of the Tas-
manian Recruiting Committee, had
thrown himself exuberantly into the cam-
paign against conscription and had be-
come the “anti” party’s Whip in the
Senate after the split. These activities
had been too much for his nervous sys-
tem, and, saying he was “sick of poli-
tics,” Mr. Rahilly resigned his seat.
The very next morning Mr. Burl, who
at the moment Mr. Rahilly resigned was
a member of the Tasmanian Assembly—
he was a conscriptionist and had been
Labor Premier —turned up in the Senate
as Mr. Rahilly’s duly nominated suc-
cessor.
The sequence of events is interesting.
Mr. Rahilly handed his written resigna-
tion to Mr. Slavin, the President (now,
of course, a Nationalist) “at one minute
past six o’clock on the evening of March
1,” Mr. Burl happened to be in Mel-
bourne, and Mr. Killalee, the Premier of
Tasmania, had been in Melbourne and
was aware of the state of Mr. Rahilly’s
nerves, and of the effect it would have
on his political fortunes.
Three hours and 14 minutes after Mr.
Slavin received Mr. Rahilly’s resignation
a meeting of the Tasmanian Executive
Council was held at Hobart. Mr. Killa-
lee announced that Mr. Rahilly had re-
signed, and that the Killalee Govern-
ment recommended the appointment of
Mr. Burl, “as provided in Section 15 of
the Commonwealth Constitution Act.”
The Governor raised some trifling ob-
jection to the procedure. This objection
was overcome when Mr. Killalee referred
to a telegram from the President of the
Senate stating that Mr. Rahilly was no


USED TO WAKE UP
WITH A HEADACHE
Now Fresh and Lively Every
Morning
Here is a man who woke up every morning
with a dull headache. Imagine the gloom that
prevailed at breakfast time —no cheerful “Good
Morning” from him! Then Kruschen trans-
formed his days. Read his letter:
“I used to wake up in the mornings with a
dull headache. A year ago, I started taking
Kruschen Salts regularly. To-day, I wake
up fresh and lively and can do my day’s work
without any exertion. I can recommend
Kruschen for anyone suffering from head-
aches and constipation, and for putting new
life into you. I have just bought another three
bottles, and intend to continue with Kruschen
for the rest of my life.” —E.P.
Headaches can nearly always be traced to a
disordered stomach, and to the unsuspected re-
tention in the system of stagnating waste
material which poisons the blood. Remove
these poisons—prevent them from forming
again—and you’ll never have to worry any
more. And that is just how Kruschen Salts
brings swift and lasting relief from headaches.
The seat and pads are of pigskin and
the Haps and skirts of kip leather.
N.S.W. Freight Paid for Cash with
Order.
Write for Our Catalog and Price List
of Polo Equipment.
THE
"SKENE"
POLO
SADDLE
Serge Lined,
£l2/7/6
(MOUNTED)
Leather Lined,
£l3/8/-
(MOUNTED)
WALTHER * STEVENSON "i:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
EXPLORERS OF AUSTRALIA
Ist>
•'4
i?
o
N
e
Frank and Alexander Jardine were sons of Mr. John
Jardine, the Government Resident at Somerset, a settle-
ment established in 1863 at Cape York during the
administration of Sir George Bowen, the first governor
of Queensland.
In 1864 the Queensland Government sent the Jardine
brothers overland from Bowen to Somerset with a herd
of cattle. In the course of their journey, which took
nearly five months, they explored a large area of the
western part of the Cape York Peninsula.
The Jardines discovered and named the Einasleigh,
Jardine and other rivers and were the first white men
to travel from one end of the Peninsula to the other.
In 1850 , fourteen years before the Jardine
brothers’ expedition, the Bank of New South
Wales , the pioneer bank in Australia , opened
its first Queensland branch at the Moreton
Bay settlement.
SANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
337C.1938
With New Gland Treatment.
Ix)ss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES h CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney,
THE
lIIIITCniNSURANCE
U 111 I Cll COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The United is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
longer a Senator, and to another from
the Governor-General of the Common-
wealth to the effect that Mr. Burl had
signed his resignation from the Tas-
manian Parliament at Government
House, Melbourne.
The Senate met at 11 a.m. on March
2, and Mr. Burl, a beaming smile on his
face, was there. “Well, if this isn’t
greased lightning!” exclaimed a Senator
who had not been in the joke. Mr. Burl’s
smile broadened.
That very day Senator Bly fell ill.
From a Tasmanian hospital he tele-
graphed to Mr. Rahilly’s successor as
Whip that it was “absolutely impossible”
for him to attend to his Parliamentary
duties, nor did he till the clouds had
rolled away.
The third sufferer and absentee was
Senator Toolong. It was explained that
he had “left for the Dutch East Indies
in consequence of ill-health.” It trans-
pired in the following year that Senator
Toolong had had compensating strokes
of good fortune.
As a representative of the people, Sena-
tor Toolong was an enthusiast for the
nationalisation of industry. As a friend
he had lent money to Father Pawpaw,
a former Pacific missionary, who had
taken up wireless and was interested in
a station at Randwick. What more
natural than that Senator Toolong should
endeavor to acquire Father Pawpaw’s
wireless concern for the nation?
A sale was effected. On August 19,1916,
£55,000 was lodged to Father Pawpaw’s
credit at a Melbourne bank. He drew
out £5200 “in notes of large denomi-
nations,” went to Parliament House and,
in Senator Toolong’s words, “handed”
the Senator “a roll.” “Jim,” said Father
Pawpaw, “I don’t know what I owe you,
but this ought to clear it.”
“The roll” amounted to £1290. Senator
Toolong kept it. He had lent Father
Pawpaw £3OO ; the rest he took to be an
expression of approval of his devotion
to the nationalisation of industry or some-
thing like that. On September 4 Senator
Toolong paid £2400 into his own bank-
ing account; he had won the difference
from bookmakers whose names he could
not remember, and had carried the £2400
round in his pocket for a fortnight.
Another version of the story was pub-
lished. Father Pawpaw, it was said,
had 19 months before offered land,
plant and works to the Postmaster-
General’s department for £55,000, and
the department, “on the advice of ex-
perts,” had refused to buy.
On May 16, 1916, Father Pawpaw
secured an option of purchase from the
directors of his company, the price being
£25,000. Straightway he offered the con-
cern to Mr. Yon Yonson for £57,000,
the letter being drafted by Senator Too-
long. A fortnight later Mr. Yonson
directed the Naval Secretary to get a
valuation “as early as possible.” A
valuation was made by an engipeer
sought out by Father Pawpaw and ap-
pointed by Mr. Yonson. “I am confident
the Government has made a good deal,”
Mr. Yonson wrote ; but the Navy Com-
mission described it as “a very calami-
tous one for the Commonwealth.”
What Father Pawpaw did with the rest
of the £5200 he drew from the bank “in
notes of large denominations” never came
out. He was taken ill a day or two later
and within a week was dead. Nor was
Mr. Yonson’s part in the transaction seri-
ously questioned till the end of the war.
With Mr. Bly and Mr. Toolong out of
action and Mr. Burl substituted for Mr.
Rahilly, the National cause was now
safe, for a time, in the Senate, since the
President, Mr. Slavin, had a casting vote.
To make assurance doubly sure, Mr.
Wotsis, another “anti,” was “approached;”
on several occasions and asked to “vote
the way in which his conscience and his
convictions would lead him” —Mr. Pew’s
expression. Mr. Wotsis alleged that he
had been offered “money,” but produced
no evidence.
After this tedious interruption, Mr.
Pew proceeded to unfold his darling
scheme, which was that Parliament
should carry on in spite of the Constitu-
tion and win the war. He explained that
this couldn’t be done without an Act
of the Imperial Parliament, but the Im-
perial Government would prepare one if
informed by resolution of the Common-
wealth Parliament that it was “impera-
tively necessary that the forthcoming
elections should be postponed.”
He proposed that the elections should
be postponed till “six months after the
final declaration of peace or until October
8, 1918, whichever is the shorter period.”
And Mr. Cluck added amiably, “If the
war is not over by 1918 we may need a
prolongation even more than we need it
now.”
The House of Representatives was
willing, but the Senate wasn’t. Disgusted
at the turn events had taken, two Liberal
Senators from Tasmania revolted, and
the leader of their House announced that
the resolution would not be submitted.
So Mr. Pew had, very reluctantly, to
advise the Governor-General to dissolve
Parliament.
{To be continued .)
The Overland Wire
By J. H. M. ABBOTT
IN days when it is altogether ordinary
to telephone from Australia to Europe
it isn’t easy to realise the immense
satisfaction and pride with which Aus-
tralians found they might send a mes-
sage in a few minutes to the other side
of the world nearly 70 years ago.
Nowadays the overland telegraph line
is becoming obsolete, but for more than a
couple of generations it has been tremen-
dously vital to this country, and the story
of its construction is one of the most
interesting episodes in Australian history.
Also, the stretching of the wire for 1500
miles from Port Augusta to Port Dar-
win across an almost unknown wilder-
ness that had only once been crossed
—by John McDouall Stuart was a
wonderful achievement for the young
province of South Australia, with a
population of only about 180,000.
The work of erecting the line was
handed over to Charles Todd, who was
at the time (1870) Postmaster-General and
Superintendent of Telegraphs in S.A. It
was decided that the job should be
divided into three sections —the first run-
ning north from Port Augusta, the second
through the Macdonnell Ranges, and the
third south from Port Darwin. The
first was constructed under contract, the
second by the S.A. Government, and the
third, the most troublesome, also by
private enterprise, but afterwards com-
pleted by the Government. In this
section the swampy nature of the country
was the principal difficulty—there is an
annual rainfall thereabouts of over 70
inches. When the Government took it
over an engineer and 80 men were sent
up from Adelaide, but they were also
beaten by the rainfall, and it was not
until Todd himself took charge that a
practicable route was found through the
immense swamps overlying the country.
The huge undertaking cost £300,000
—very cheap. It took a year and
eleven months to complete, and 36,000
telegraph poles, weighing 5000 tons,
were required. Some of them had
to be carried 350 miles. Over 200
tons of material had to be transported
into the interior. Enormous mobs
of sheep and cattle were driven an
average of 500 miles to feed the workers.
Scrub and big timber was cut, grubbed
and cleared for a width of 50 feet for
more than 500 miles, and great quan-
tities of building material had to be
carted along the survey to erect the
transmission stations, usually at intervals
of 200 miles—though most of this par-
ticular work was done after the line was
finished. In one respect the different
parties were equally fortunate the
natives gave hardly any trouble.
Perhaps no more formidable task has
ever been faced in this country than
was undertaken by the South Australians
when they began the building of “the
Overland” 68 years ago. They were so
justifiably proud of the indomitable man
who carried it through, Charles Todd,
that they kept him at work in the public
service until he was 80 years old, and
it is a notable fact that until he retired
in 1906, after having been, among other
things, Government Astronomer for 51
years, the State Parliament refused, so
long as he was in the service, to pass
a bill making the retirement of public
servants compulsory at the age of 70.
It is not often that a prophet or a
great civil servant has so much honor
accorded him in this or any other
country.


“Come, my dear,” said
Mr. Lovel, walking on, walk-
ing Sally back into the
proper place for wives, “pray
do keep step.”
“Yes,- Mr. Lovel,” said
Sally, trying.
Maoris. This is certainly not in accord with the
Waitangi Treaty”
“Bunkum!” shouted Major Henry, his loyalty
to Lovels suddenly exploding ; “you know England
wishes the Treaty to hell. So do you and everyone
else”
He was drowned in a yell of “Hear, hear!” For
robust colonists, building houses, building roads, im-
porting blooded stock and producing families, were
in no mind to remain in leading-strings for ever, while
the midlands were still in an uproar because no one
could get on the land there.
“Perish dictatorship. Let’s shoot the hound,”
proposed Sir Winston Chard, his yellow wig over his
ear.
“We’ll write to England about it,” said Corny,
who (though growing very bloated now) still seemed
to believe in England. ~
Never any sense from them, thought Peregrine,
begging gentlemen to remember that Grey had at
least procured for them the military force denied to
other Governors.
JERMYN went out into the windy night. This
continual useless bulling and baiting over the fair
body of New Zealand was nothing to him now. He
had a nearer and dearer body to think of, and the
consciousness of that was chaos in his soul. Red lan-
terns outside the dingy taverns mocked at his dark-
ness. Are you, they asked, the honorable man who
had no pity on poachers? Are you the jester who
mocked at colohels climbing through back-windows?
Where are you going yourself now?
Jermyn didn’t know. In desperate disorderly
fashion his mind went round and round. There were
things no decent man could do . . . yet so many did
them. A gentleman should have strength to master
his illicit passions . . . yet how many didn’t.
“O God!” cried Jermyn to this God who gave
no answers.
Struggle as he might to fly temptation, naughty
Fate thrust it against him next day when he saw Sally
pimmenading with Peregrine in the Government House
gardens, where the regimental band played on Thurs-
days. Very gay, the gardens; very turquoise and
saffron and violet and rosy-pink with bonnets and
rustling gowns and long fringed shawls. Very full
of charming young ladies, demure under floating veils
and dragooned by tightly and brightly upholstered
mammas whose tortoiseshell lorgnettes missed so many
billets-doux slipped from an experienced dog-skin
glove to a fluttering one of white kid. Top-hatted
gentlemen in black or gray frocks were being domestic
with each a wife upon his arm ; swaggering whiskered
officers were ogling.
Not the place, thought Jermyn, bitter under a
puriri tree, to encounter Sally floating in dove-color and
a white bonnet with a little pink rose wreath inside it;
but Major Henry, pecking at delight like a red-beaked
parrot, was charmed. The Quality, he told Peregrine,
was clearly designed by Providence to be the glass of
fashion, the mould of form even in earth’s remotest
places. Quality alone is the natural promenader, the
natural example to the baser-born.
What, cried the Major, becoming quite lyrical,
could be finer than the contemplation of Lovels
strolling just like this down the evolution of New
Zealand ; doing what must be done with an elegance,
a grace that redeemed it from its raw vulgarity ; en-
grafting a tradition of the Old English Aristocracy
on this crude land which, having gaped upon Lovels
to the full, would hereafter move with more gentility
about its business.
“Dear me,” sid Sally, a little dry over this trump-
eting of Lovels, since half Auckland was peopled by
the old English aristocracy . . . And there was Jermyn,
looking like Lucifer fallen from heaven, in a high-
collared mulberry coat and curly beaver and the kisses
that Tiffany said were always in his eyes. (Oh, Jer-
myn, don’t come and speak to me. I can’t bear it just
now, Jermyn.) “Yes, Mr. Holland, it is indeed a sad
pity that Government House has burned down. I
hear that the Governor’s Ball will be in a barn.”
“A confounded pity Grey didn’t burn in it,” de-
clared Major Henry, ogling the ladies. He walked
on with Sally, helping collect the verbal bouquets
offered her. Oh, essential promenaders, the Lovels!
Here came Jermyn, very elegant and remote between
Miss Martha Pinshon and her scraggy mamma.
Surely the boy had more wit than to marry there.
No money, no breedin’. “Hallo, what have you been
up to, Jermyn?”
“Reviving my memory of Biblical quotations,”
said Jermyn, keeping his eyes off Sally, though know-
ing well how the laces were rising and falling on her
breast, how white she had gone to the very lips. For
God’s sake, he almost cried to Peregrine, give her to
me, man! Jermyn, having never been disciplined like
Sally, was quite certain that he couldn’t bear much of
this.
For all'her disciplined life Sally suddenly found
that Jermyn’s voice with its deep warm shadows was
shaking eternity to pieces. It was too long to wait,
too long before she could pluck a flower for a button-
hole and pin it in his coat. And there might not be
buttonhole bouquets in eternity. Nor coats . . .
11.
CRUE English colonists, prepared to run their heads
against any wall in preference to hunting for gates
like a swineherd, egad, continued to vociferate
against Grey, who probably felt that England was
asking rather much of one spare gentleman in frock-
coat and checked trousers. With an empty treasury
he could buy no land for distribution. With Maoris
everywhere engaged in private warfare he could get
no titles clear. With the Waitangi Treaty (that in-
violate Magna Charta of the Maoris) hanging over
his head, he could not even grab. And all over the
country little settlements —chiefly housed in tents or
on wheels so that they could move on when the
Maoris claimed the land —were declaring themselves
with loud cries, often protesting that they had been
there for years, and nobody cared.
Grey, who had been born a dictator and had
made himself another, sent military expeditions to
tell the settlements that, being unauthorised, they did
not exist. And the expeditions, much encumbered by
forty-pound packs, high chokers and long flintlock
Brown Besses, got lost in the towering bush for weeks,
discovered settlements which had been discovered so
often that they were tired of it, enraged the Maoris,
who suspected them of putting down survey-pegs, and
then returned to be very drunken in barracks and
write long Home letters mentioning mosquitoes and
steaming wet infernos. Meanwhile they cost the
country so much that Auckland was going quite bank-
rupt and gentlemen’s top-hats were losing their gloss, j
while as for the ladies (dear souls) the number of
turned gowns and little unexpected bows hiding spots
testified to the state they were in.
Yet, since no one must carp at his family,
Peregrine took Sally and Darien round to Com-
mercial Bay by rowboat (only gentlemen walked the
rough track over the hill) and there spent the worth
of his latest-built cutter on such fallals, such quan-
tities of white silk-muslin that Sally was overcome by
remorse to the extent of kissing his cheek and then
overcome much further by his surprise. “I—l only
wanted to show -my appreciation,” she faltered.
“Quite unnecessary,” said Peregrine, really
annoyed, because Darien was present at the scene.
“Such demonstrations suggest that you imagine 1
doubt your appreciation and affection. I assure you
I never do that.”
Such a new outlook on conjugal felicity com-
forted Sally amazingly. Now she need never kiss a
man again until she and Jermyn kissed in eternity.
She shut her eyes with a little shiver. Eternity was
so far away. Further even than Jermyn, who was
being so noble in never coming to see her that one
could almost wish he wasn’t.
So the little seamstress came daily, and the
morning-room frothed and billowed with endless
flounces and laces and ribbons, and Darien always
in a dressing-gown. Such a tall, slender Darien,
overtopping Sally; Darien with ' her glorious
head of curls, her skin like rose-leaves, her lovely
curving arms. How happy Sally would be to have
Darien calling her Sal-volatile again; and Darien
looking so hard at her sometimes that she felt her-
self going red right down her neck.
She’s got a lover, thought Darien, quite excited.
I’ll find out who he is when I have time. So Sally
could wait while billows were piled on snowy billows,
while petticoats swelled and foamed with delicate
lace, and ribbons and roses looped up the billows and
ran into patterns on a filmy scarf.
At last the white satin slippers went on over the
cotton stockings, the white rosebud wreath was pinned
among her curls, and Darien stood before the long
mirror with every lamp and candle in the house about
her and declared she felt like a choir of angels in a
shrine.
“Oh, I wish I were a man for a minute so I could
kiss me,” she cried. “Sal-volatile, did you ever see
anyone so ravishing before?”
Butter, she felt, had indeed been served her in a
lordly dish, and all the young bucks’ heads would
soon be around her feet on chargers. But Jermyn s
head she would take upon her breast . . . that white,
firm young breast which Caroline (magnificent in an
orange velvet gown and party-color gauze turban)
declared to be most immodestly revealed.
(To be continued.)
THE SAND CASTLE
BY GAVIN S. CASEY.
>-* URLING over each other as the reef pushed
[ their crests into the air, the breakers thundered.
V , Their froth made patterns against the sky, and
then drifting patterns on the brilliant green of
the sea. They tugged at each other as they raced for
the shore. They swept the wrinkles out of the sand
and then tugged at its grains surging back and soaked
through it as the bright sun made new wrinkles.
Their noise was a steady booming, like that of count-
less wheels on hard-baked ground. Only occasionally,
when the surging waters met and rose in a tremen-
dous concentrated effort, could the individual roar of
a foamy comber be heard above that of the rest.
The noise filled Jimmy with vague dismay long
before he could see the ocean. He held Mum s hand
very tightly as they ploughed over the sandhills.
Though he had listened all night long to the grunting
and crunching of the Bonanza s mill, and had heard
shrieking cyclones thrashing the flat miles of inland
scrub, this wrathful, baffled voice was new. Only the
presence of Mum gave him courage.
The sand was dazzling white—coarse, shining crys-
tals, unlike the friendly red goldfields soil. Walking
through it was difficult for his short' brown legs. And
when they saw the ocean he was more than ever
frightened.
Right to the horizon there was green water, furi-
ous, crashing all its weight against its banks, and the
sound of its baffled rage beat at' his eardrums. Every
breaker menaced the earth on which they stood, and
it was impossible to believe that the tallest of them
would stop before they had engulfed Jimmy and
Mum. He remembered the placid inland lakes which
were full of still brown water after rain. He took
in a great lungful of air and clung to Mum.
“It’s the sea,” she said. “Isn’t it beautiful, Jimmy?
The big sea the ships sail on.”
He looked for a ship, and sure enough there was
one, away out where his eye had missed it. But he
had nothing to say.
Then they put their basket on the sand and sat
beside it. Even Mum sat down on the ground and
encouraged him to roll and play in the sand. The
white grains did not make him dirty or earn him any
reprimands, and he began to understand that the beach
was fun. He grew accustomed to the roar of the surf.
He took off his shoes and socks and stood daringly
where the white, sandy water foamed around his legs.
He thrilled when the earth was sucked away from
between his toes and under his feet. Sunk to the
ankles, he enjoyed exquisite terror, imagining him-
self held and about to be altogether submerged. A
big wave drove at the shore. He gasped, wrenched
his feet free and ran.
Mum lay on the sand in drowsy, sun-drenched
contentment. Jimmy ran and yelled. There was a
friendly barking dog and other children who were
suspicious at first, then curious. There were fascinat-
ing shells, and a little way off there were great grim
rocks with chasms full of clear, still water and slimy,
brilliant starfish. There were miles and miles of a
new world, there under the hot sun, and long hours
of running and excitement made Jimmy tired. In
the middle of the day he was glad to creep back to
Mum and go to sleep. She watched him, thinking
how far they were from the goldfields and feeling
glad. -
When he woke the sound of the surf was softer,
its waves smaller. He wasn’t frightened of it any
more, though he still watched the swimmers, expect-
ing • them to be dashed to pieces. He gasped with
relief whenever one emerged from a breaker, dripping
and grinning. He spent an hour with the starfish and
ran back to ask Mum the time. It was ten to four.
Dad, he thought, would be getting ready for under-
ground.
Then there were more children. But they were
older than those in the morning and not as friendly.
They built castles in the sand, and he watched while
the sun’s rays slanted and the surf boomed steadily
and weariness began to attack him again. Mum was
busy with dreams of her own, and he was lonely.
He settled under the rocks, where the sand was damp
and easy to mould. He built on his own, as he always
played on his own when he was at home. He became
tiredly absorbed in it.
Then Mum stirred. The long holiday day was
over. She was anxious for the little boy sitting in
the damp sand. He had been scared at first, she
thought, but he had soon overcome it. It had been
good to see him on the beach with the other children.
She hated home, which was only a “one-mine” town-
ship, where there were no playmates for him, only a
few little ragamuffins and hordes of rough men. She
wanted to see what he was so earnestly making in the
sand. A ship, a big city building, a train—one of
the wonders that had been crammed into the last few
days.
But it was a queer thing, all sticks and shapeless
piles of sand.
“What is it, Jimmy?” she asked.
As she spoke she became unpleasantly certain of
what it was, and the little boy answered as she knew
he would. “Can’t y’ see, Mum? There’s the shaft
an r everything. It’s the mine, of course.”


'Jhis masterpiece is ~~
the spirit he always serves.
D i
\m
=§=
SSs
V
>
m
*<itnuranmui«r.mitv»U4r»#Mnn<i Ulrtn4WH4HrMU|**ilUt
(I) c Calluro's
yAo tt/A/sfy js-
(lFCaUuirfs
fapgfS
Scots CUbisby
». 9VT**~
tfiMvHhH ( rovM»«» %M»1) *>•«••
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
df
TO ‘THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of "'he Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full paymenL
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
. A
<*
s*%<t
&
&
\\®
<**
rV' 00 t** ,
+* '
•'*
i %e o\C fc^° V 0t
..•• <$ V° 'S&’&faffi
.••'c.'.^'^V' 50


TASM A
TEC
X
V
%
THE ’air trimmers illustrated here have
nothing to do with the perfected AIR
TRIMMERS incorporated in every Tasma
Receiver . . . but listen ... it is the exclusive,
dust-proof Tasma Air Trimmer which, in
conjunction with the Ferro-Coil Intermedi-
ates, ensures that your Tasma will play with
the same clarity, the same purity of tone, in
five years’ time as it does the day you buy it.
The Tasma Air Trimmer is not a “gadget”
... it is an uncannily clever and efficient inven-
tion which enables your Tasma to keep the
accuracy of its factory settings year in and
year out. And remember—the Air Trimmer
is but ONE of Tasma s eight points of
superiority!
HERE ARE SOME OF THE OTHER FEATURES WHICH ACCOUNT FOR TASMA'S LEADERSHIP
INSTANTANEOUS TUNING: Enabling any one of the 125 Stations indi-
cated on the Tasma dial to be tuned at the flick of a finger and thumb with
hairline accuracy.
EXTENDED TUNING RANGE: Both above and below normal limits, pro-
viding for the addition of new broadcasting stations as they come on the air.
OVERSIZE DIAL: Twenty inches of tuning space floodlit brilliantly with
pointer and stations covering the full circle. Even a deaf man can tune a
1 asma perfectly!
AUTOMATIC VOLUME CONTROL: All A.C. models incorporate Audio
A.V.C., permitting weak stations to be played louder and precluding
anndying variations,
VARIABLE SELECTIVITY: A luxury feature giving full musical volume
and absolute selectivity over any programme you may select.
INBUILT MAGIC EYE: The Magic Eye of the Tasma is built into the dial
to ensure immediate visual indication of exact tuning.
OCTAL VALVES: The new Tasma Receivers are equipped with the new
Octal Valves. If a radio isn't Octal equipped it isn’t the latest.
) 9 '
THE TASMA “PRINCESS”
Described by a leading critic
as “the most outstanding
receivers of their type on
the market.’’
Model “530” —6-valve, dual-
wave A.C. model. 35 guineas.
Model “560” —7-valve, dual-
wave Universal current (A.C.
or D.C.). 39 guineas.
Model “585” Battery-
operated s—valve. 35 gns.
Ail- Cell operated, 37 gns.
Vibrator operated, 40 gns.
d
THE TASMA "DEBUTANTE"
Meeting the demand for
receivers with full console
chassis, yet with a cabinet
compact enough for table
use.
Model “525” —6 valve dual-
wave A.C. 27 guineas.
Model “580”—Broadcast 5~
valve, Battery operated. 27
guineas.
Air Cell operated, 29 gns.
Vibrator powered, 32 gns.
Model “585” —-s—valve dual-
wave Battery operated. 29
guineas.
Air Cell operated'. 31 gns.
Vibrator powered, 34 gns.
df
THE TASMA “COUNTESS"
Flawless in technical design
and giving a. standard of
performance never before
achieved.
Model “535”—6-valve dual-,
wave A.C. 31 guineas.
.Model “580” 5 - valve
broadcast, Battery operated.
31 guineas.
Air Cell operated, 33 gns.
Vibrator powered, 36 gns.
A PRODUCT OF
THOM & SMITH
PTY., LIMITED.
DETAIL BUILT RADIO
SOLD BY ALL
PRINCIPAL
RADIO DEALERS.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS,
VICTORIA: HARTLEYS, LTD., 270 Flinders
Street, Melbourne.
John JtioUway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street,
North. Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
SOUTH AUST : OLIVER J. NILSEN & CO.,
LTD., 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
TASMANIA: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY.,
LTD., 36 Argyle Street, Hobart; and 59
George Street, Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: CARLYLE & CO.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. GRICE, LTD,, 90-92
Queen Street, Brisbane; Rockhampton,
Townsville and Cairns.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 197
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane. (Whole Stale
Distributors.)
DARLING DOWNS: ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD., kuthven Street, Toowoomba.
