

V.W.V.V.V.V.V
'J
¥
/'lll
y
»:
v.;
tirnsm.
' 5?
vH
1
■
tl7r
s
HSS
4!)
I
■
i§
■
NIGHT and DAY
you’ll he glad you kept to Johnnie Walker
No man was ever the better for mixing his drinks, and everyone
who keeps to Johnnie Walker for an evening is glad the next morning
that he did so.
There is something essentially clean and refreshing about the taste
of Johnnie Walker evidence of the purity and age of the fine
whiskies from which it is blended. An evening with Johnnie Walker
is a pleasant evening and pleasant to look back on so always ask
for Johnnie Walker by name.
?
?
Born 1820-Still going strong
JOHN WALKER Qc SONS LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY
J.w. 85. B.F.C.
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3050.
Wednesday, July 27, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD,,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
FASHION'S LID LIFTED.
To be invited to read a book called Can / Help
You, Madam ? by a lady called Ethyle is enough to
make any man want to rush off and shoot bears or
climb the South Pole. Nevertheless, the tome’s recom-
mended here, not only because it provides much
better ammunition than the butter-dish to hurl across
the breakfast table, but because its exposure of tricks
and rackets in the dress trade holds a passionate in-
terest for those who pay the bills. The lady tells,
for example, whether sale bargains at 11s. lid. are
bargains.
Primarily, though, it’s a book for women. Ethyle
(Miss Campbell, please!), who graduated to the
fashion editorship of London “Sunday Express” after
eight years’ buying for a West End ragshop, comes in
an exclusive yellow model from Cobden-Sanderson,
and at once buzzes off to Paris for the fashion shows.
Admitted only by invitation, and on the tacit
understanding that they will buy at least one gar-
ment worth from £6O to £l5O, the buyers, snow falling
outside but the room stifling, sit on little gilt chairs
in the salon of the couturier and wait for the manne-
quins who will parade in the styles decreed for the
new season.
“Mesdames et messieurs, il commence!” Complete
silence settles and all eyes turn on the chic mannequin
who, swinging her hips in professional style, slowly wends
her way around the crowded salon, clad in the first
exhibit of the season. Model after model comes before
the enraptured buyers! The show ends with the best-
looking mannequin coming in clad as a glamorous
bride, with exotic bridesmaids around her. Now the
buyer must make up her mind which will be the most
useful model to buy for her firm to copy.
The salon in Paris is the fountain-head of the
book. The next step is selling in England—two hun-
dred pounds’ worth in one morning to a woman in
whose list of purchases no item cost more than nine
guineas. Miss Campbell makes it sound as if empires
were tottering when a slip of the tongue nearly lost
her that order: Next is Ascot. It was wet, so wet that
next day no one had the courage to return a rain-
damaged frock marked “unsuitable,” though every
Ascot for years frocks “bought” on approval for the
day had been so returned.
Two feminine tragedies spoilt the day for Ethyle.
Prince George accidentally sat down beside her at a
moment when she was in her stockinged feet, having
slipped off shoes that were too tight. She couldn’t
get ’em on again, and had to paddle merrily across
the Enclosure, carrying them. And then she spotted
two of her customers wearing identical “exclusive”
models. However, she saw a woman whose hat was
a bird’s-nest, complete with bird, and the bookies,
offering 6 to 4 that the eggs would hatch by Gold
Cup day, cheered things up considerably. Even so, the
South Pole still calls: she describes four Ascots and
doesn’t once mention a hoss.
From Ascot to America. Miss Campbell says
that American women dress better on £BO a year
than English women on £2OO, and that for those whose
bill-footers aren’t interested in astronomy, the smart-
est cheap clothes in the world are available. On
Gahd’s Own generally she’s more amusing than 90
per cent of the globe-trotters who write about it, and
knocks the editor of “Tit-Bits” (R.P. 20 /v/ ’3B) into
his own top hat. She tells against herself the story of
the man who was showing her round, and who, when
she raved about a fur coat another woman was wear-
ing, said “Yeah, but all you’ll get outa me, sister, is
a pair of mink eyebrows.” Then she quotes the story
of Lord Balfour, whose guide told him all about a
sky-scraper. “That building before you is 52 storeys
high, fireproof and indestructible.” “Ah,” said the
noble lord, “what a pity!” And one bright news-
paper story about an English barrister who looked
at one of the New York “tabloids” and said that it
contained enough libel, indecency and contempt of
court to send the editor to gaol for 400 years if it
were published in England. Miss Campbell says she
told it to an American publisher, who commented
“If you British were to retaliate by sending over some
of your own papers we should go to sleep for just
about that period.”
She found a difference in the American and
British attitudes to fashion. An English woman wants
an exclusive model that no one else can wear ; her
sister over the Atlantic wants to be wearing exactly
what “everybody” is wearing. She found that the
wholesale trade was entirely controlled by Jews: “If
there was a Gentile in the wholesale trade I did not
meet him, and I mean that literally.” She found that
there’s not only that dreadful institution Mother’s
Day, but a Father’s Day as well. “Send the old dad
a pipe.”
In order to give such occasions the truly personal
touch of love and devotion, florists and other organisa-
tions have a “Reminder Service.” The customer merely
gives the shop a list of the birthday dates of his wife,
family, friends and clients. The shop does the rest and
sends the customer a monthly account, and, if desired,
a card of reminder. One man I heard of forgot to
notify the shop his wife had died. The red roses on the
old date were delivered to her successor, who doubtless
appreciated the gesture. There is nothing like the
personal touch!
She found that American women, besides being
better dressed than the English in the afternoon, had
’em licked at night, too. She describes the dresses.
The Pole looms up again ; but then she tells about
the “approval racket,” which is a colossal version of
the stunt her Ascot customers worked. At fashion-
able gatherings she was intrigued by the little metal
tabs attached to many of the frocks, and learned that
they were the stores’ identification marks. As long
as they were still attached, clothes bought on approval
could be returned, and dozens of the women intended
to send back their frocks after wearing them once.
There were even cleaners who specialised in removing
gin-stains so that garments could go back apparently
unworn. The shops knew all about it, but lacking
concerted action, were afraid to check the practice.
Some of them had prepared a black list of the worst
offenders, but did nothing further. The racket had
assumed fantastic proportions. In one year United
States stores were supposed to have had returned to
them goods to the value of 600,000,000 dollars.
Miss Campbell has one more good wisecrack
from America, a test for home brew or prohibition
liquor. “You giye two fingers to a rabbit. If it dies,
it’s bad gin. If it lives, it’s a bad rabbit.”
Back in England, she tells about sales. Bargains
are bargains, she declares. Each department of a big
store has to make a certain fixed percentage of profit.
To do so, it marks up all goods just enough to be
more than on the safe side. Then when sale time
comes round, if all has gone well, it will have a sur-
plus on its percentage, perhaps £3OO in hand. Prices
are reduced all round, some a little, some a lot, until
the surplus is eaten up.
Kleptomaniacs and peculiar customers make other
entertaining chapters. “What a Man Thinks” is
simply padding; and what a man thinks of “Are
Your Corsets Spotless?” is not to be mentioned here.
She studies sales girls, and inveighs with justice against
the monstrous system in some English stores of call-
ing the lasses numbers instead of names. “Number
232 will attend to you, Moddom.” Miss Campbell
writes brightly, is feminine enough to write forgiv-
ingly of an employee with “her rather cowlike eyes,”
and besides giving an interesting expose of the world
■of fashion, very neatly fakes the lid off the minds of
the fashionable at the same time.
A Maoriland Playwright.
Merton Hodge, the Maoriland playwright who
had such an outstanding success with his first play,
The Wind and the Rain, has apparently scored another
with The Island, which was first produced at the
Comedy Theatre, London, last February, and has just
been published by Heinemann. St. John Ervine says,
with mathematical precision, that it is 11 times better
than The Wind and the Rain. Certainly it’s more like
a play and less like a novel.
The Island tells the story of a storm in a military
tea-cup. Two garrison detachments, men, officers and
wives, are'stationed on an island off the English coast.
They are a small world in themselves, having no
society except one another, no amusements but shoot-
ing and bridge, and very few interests in common.
They get on one another’s nerves, scandal-mongering
becomes a blood sport, and when the nervous explo-
sion occurs a young officer shoots himself.
Sobered by this tragedy everybody takes a reef
in his or her self-control and determines to live hence-
forth in amity and tolerance. It is an incident that
could be repeated ad infinitum.
Hodge makes play-writing simple. He takes a
handful of characters out of some traditional band-
box—what could be more pukka than the army?—
sees that the types are well assorted, the hearty, the
nitwit, the snobbish, the strong silent man with a
secret sorrow, the charming young man who drowns
unrequited love in strong drink, the colonel’s lady
with a roving eye ; mixes up the husbands and wives,
shakes well and pours out smoothly. The result
amuses without intoxicating, and there is a nice part
for all the actors. The humor consists largely of smart
inanities. “Twenty years ago, Ashley, I had to decide
between marriage and keeping my piano. I kept my
piano.” “Nina —It’s a great comfort to know that my
husband behaves so well in railway carriages. Car-
rington—Ah! But there were no tunnels.” The senti-
ment is also perfectly safe. “Finest thing in the
world....the Service. Finest thing in the world!”
Those four dots —they are the author’s —are masterly.
They make it all so manly and inarticulate.
The Island is undoubtedly a well-made play, and
it also undoubtedly points the moral that being well-
made is not enough. Contemporary drama is being
ground between two millstones ; the nether millstone
of the traditional well-made play, whose technique,
polished by hundreds of clever brains, has become so
perfect that its slickness defeats its own object; and
the upper millstone of the “new” impressionistic tech-
nique, spot-lights, double scenes, walking abstractions,
verse-speaking choirs and the rest of the gadgets that
so enchant the playwright who has yielded to them
that they become an end in themselves. A major
dramatic gift can triumph over either —but major
gifts are rare.
Tiburon—in Virginia.
For the scene of his first novel, The Somers
Inheritance (Hamish Hamilton), Jennings Rice has
taken a small town, Somersville, in West Virginia and
turned it inside out.
Human nature is much the same in Tiburon,
Redheap and Somersville. Rice’s tale is lively, full of
surprises and character sketches. It sets off briskly
with the statement, “The station agent said firmly that
there was no doubt about its being a corpse, and asked
if Mr. Penny was expecting one” ; and the rest of
the 375 pages are given up to elaborating the rather
acid joke that a dead man played upon his native
town and all that came of it.
Somersville was very prudish, and when Annie
Somers gave birth to an illegitimate child and refused
to name the father she and the boy became pariahs,
befriended only by the disreputable hotelkeeper
Minnie Ball. The scandal flourished unabated for
14 years till Annie and Leonard retired to a neigh-
boring city, where with the years Leonard flourished
exceedingly. He returned to Somersville once, but
local society blackballed him. Finally he died intes-
tate, with the murmured request that he be buried
in his native town.
The search for the heirs had devastating results.
Roberta Carson, who claimed aristocratic descent, was
forced to abandon her pretences to get the money.
Letitia Hampton, the great lady of the town, pre-
ferred her pride. Minnie Ball nevertheless had a
happy moment addressing her as cousin in public, and
divided the remainder of the money with Charlie
Somers to strains of hilarious scandal. A great many
side-issues were .involved, including a suicide, an
intrigue to drive out the Rev. Mr. Penny, the failure
of a bank, a family feud, the overthrow of a busy-
body.
A great many portraits of local worthies and un-
worthies are also hit off with a certain acumen—as
this one of an ancient Lothario: “Wells was a thin,
slightly-stooped old man with wobbly legs, a plentiful
head of white hair and a face all of whose lines sloped
downward, so that it seemed to have melted and to
be running into his little scraggly, yellowish beard.”
Everyone is a character rather than a human
being, and there are so many of these that the reader
scarcely has time to identify himself with any par-
ticular one. The story could not move so quickly
were it encumbered with real people, and it would
be tragedy instead of farce.
There is no romantic interest in The Somers
Inheritance; it is wholly objective and, within its
limits, highly successful.
Fantastic Ladies.
Since Mary Webb wrote of wild creatures, and
of women so closely related to them that they might
well have rested in burrows or roosted in trees, there
has been a stream of writing by English' women
novelists dealing quietly and excellently with charac-
ters tinged with the same element of fantasy. Like
Sylvia Townsend Warner’s Lolly Will owes —in which
the lady thought she was a witch —most of the books
have been minor tragedies in which the beauty of the
prose compensates for their essential unimportance.
Naomi Royde Smith is the latest to join the group,
and like Sylvia Warner, she has entered skittishly, if
pathetically, into the mind of a spinster. “It was on
a Good Friday that Miss Bendix lost her faith”; and
it was about the last thing she had to lose in a gently
crumbling life. This one sentence and the events, or
rather the lack of them, that led up to it, and the
consequences that grew out of it, still eventlessly,
form the substance of her new novel, Miss Bendix
(Macmillan).
Since For Us in the Dark, a long dramatic novel,
Naomi Smith has shrunk her canvas to postage-stamp
size. Miss Bendix was an only child. She grew up in
a home made happy by the full sympathy and tender
love that existed between her and her mother. When
she was 25 her mother died, and she was sustained
in her grief by her faith and her duty to her father.
Her fiance, who was going out to farm in Maoriland,
refused to wait for her and married someone else.
The years flowed quietly on with good works as
their only content until her father died, and his pen-
sion with him. Miss Bendix sank into the nor?
genteel poverty. Her faith continued to sustain he:,
or so she thought. “She had for so long curbed her
intelligence to work within the limits of her moth: "
piety and her father’s dogmatism, that the things o,
the spirit had become no more than lifeless precepts
obeyed without effort and without very much under-
standing.”
The end came of its own weight one Easter when,
weakened by the Lenten fast, Miss Bendix had an
astronomical vision. She was liberated, spiritually
speaking, into the solar system.
It was a devastating mystical experience of no
particular content. Afterwards, when she had dressed
for church, Miss Bendix felt she had forgotten some-
thing. It was neither her prayer-book nor her hand-
kerchief ; it was her faith. It no longer existed. She
took off her gloves and abandoned church-going.
Afterwards she suffered swirls of light in the head,
read some remote old books on astronomy and felt
happier.
It is an odd little tale. The crisis ocurs when
Miss Bendix sees her vision. The author has to make
of this a double event, a convincing experience to Miss
Bendix, a pathetic delusion to the reader. She pulls
it off and her best ally is her good prose, steady,
beautiful and unseamed by mannerisms.
Clemence Dane, who likes trying all sorts of
recipes for fiction, has written a more dramatic fan-
tasy in The Moon is Feminine (Heinemann). It 1S
much in the same tradition, except that it is a man
this time who jumps out of the skin of normality.
The scene is laid in the Prince Regent’s Brighton
at the beginning of the nineteenth century. Here
Henry Cope, like the rest of the fashionable world,
had taken lodgings for the season. He was 26 years ot
age, “with a narrow forehead, greenish eyes and a
remarkable mouth,” £5OO a year, and a rather alarm-
ing incapacity for falling in love. On his birthday,
however, he was recalled from taking stock of him-
self by a disturbance outside which changed the cur-
rent of his thought.
For the bosom of the sea was heaving wildly and the
sky was a bruised face. Sea and sky were two personages,
fatefully moving, fatally moved. The Parade ran along
in front of them cringing; its sparse grass bent, its
wisps and pebbles scudding out of danger. Such a mere
yellow ribbon, such a slight bright creature was that path
as it fled before the illimitable anger of sea and sky-
Henry Cope stared and thrilled. “Let me fall in love!,’
he repeated boldly, with the frantic universe for his
echo-rock.
Immediately he saw Lady Molly Jessell in danger
of being blown to her death by the wind. She was
(Continued on page 8.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
THE SENIOR STORE.”
FAMOUS
LOW PRICES
COMMENCES AUGUST Ist
BETTER At
AN
fyzddiMj
tfoicun
ioe will qiv& £
you up 1°
Ml YOUR
ATTRESS
p
K
m
m
buM'i H
HYGIENE
CAMPAIGN
BETTERe-CL-EANER BEDDING
QUALITY
G
Belgian or
Union Tick.
Our standard quality, having Belgian Striped Linen or Union
Ticking. Various colours. 4in. piped borders, double stitched,
hand-made,
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Mattress £2/9/9 £3/2/6 £3/11/6 £4/10/- £4/18/6
Pillows, each, 6/-.
QUALITY
GG
Belgian or
Union Tick.
Has similar coverings to G Quality, but is more heavily filled.
sin. borders, piped and double stitched. Undoubtedly very go'od
value.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Mattress.... £3/3/6 £3/10/- £3/19/6 £4/15/- £5/3/6
Pillows, each, 6/-.
QUAUTY
H
Blue and White,
or Best Linen.
A super Mattress with 6in. piped borders. Covered in best
Belgian Striped Linen, various colours, or Linen Blue and White
Ticking.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Mattress.... £3/17/6 £4/7/6 £4/19/6 £5/15/6 £6/5/-
Pillows, each, 8/3.
QUALITY
H
Floral
Best Special.
Similar in weight and quality to H Quality, but covered
floral Damask Ticking, and in a variety of colourings.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft.
Mattress £4/5/- £4/17/6 £5/10/- £6/5/-
Pillows, each, 8/9.
in finest
4ft. 6in.
£6/15/-
The
"Hordura"
(Regd.)
Superb Kapok
Mattress
The “Hordura” (Regd.), a really high grade Mattress with sin.
borders, hand finished. Made in sections, tuftless. Oval design
firmly filled with best Japara Kapok and covered with high-grade
Belgian Linen Ticking.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Mattress.... £3/19/6 £4/15/- £5/7/6 £5/17/6 £6/7/6
Up to £1 for your Old Quilt
In exchange for your old Feather or Down Quilts we will allow
£1 off our marked prices on any Quilt from £5 upwards, and
on Quilts from £3 to £3 we will allow you 10/-. Take advantage
of this splendid offer. It will remain open during our Better
Bedding Campaign only, and all old Quilts sent in will be burnt.
We are again introducing this famous campaign and present to
the Public the opportunity of securing new and BETTER
BEDDING, and at the same time disposing of old mattresses
which may be a positive nuisance . . . and gain a pound into
the bargain!
What an offer! Up to £1 for the privilege of making a bonfire
of that old mattress of yours—however dilapidated its condition.
In instituting this Campaign, Anthony Horderns* are mindful of
the immensely important bearing that Bedding has on health—
they know how easily bedding might become unhygienic. It is
this fact that prompted the Government to practically forbid
the remaking of bedding (Kapok) under the Public Health
(Amendment) Act, 1921. In many cases the old Mattresses
which you have are not in any sense an asset—they may be
actually a liability and a danger. You cannot have them
remade; you cannot sell them; you would probably have to
pay for them to be removed. Take advantage of Anthony
Horderns* Hygiene campaign to secure “Better and Cleaner’*
Bedding!
• FREE DELIVERY!
Bedding Department—Third Floor. Free Delivery within the area served
by our motor-vans. Districts extend to Richmond, Penrith, Camden
and Campbelltown.
WHAT WE DO
AND WHAT YOU DO
!•-—YOU select your fresh bedding from our unrivalled assortment, the
prices being, as always at Anthony Horderns’, the lowest possible, quality
considered. BUT—note this! Off our “Famous Low Prices” you receive
a generous rebate on your old bedding.
WE WILL ALLOW YOU £1 FOR YOUR OLD MATTRESS IF
YOU PURCHASE A NEW FULL SIZE ONE. If you decide on a mattress
smaller than 4ft. 6in. wide, WE WILL ALLOW YOU 10/- off the price
of a new one. THIS OF COURSE, IS OFF OUR STANDARD PRICES
AS QUOTED IN OUR REGULAR PRICE LIST. We do not include Flock
or Fibre bedding in this offer as we do not recommend them as “Better
Bedding.”
2.—WE WILL deliver your new Bedding without charge (if you live in
the Metropolitan Area), and special vans will pick up your old Mattresses
and remove them.
Because you live in the country there is no
need to miss this splendid offer. Exactly
the same careful attention will be given to
our country customers as is given to our
city shoppers. Absolute satisfaction is
guaranteed.
tnrim
Mi
Ullivoit
mm
m
mil
P' jr ticking -**
IX PURE FELTED 5
f COTTON J
r CURLED HAIR
STOUT CANVASIfg
SPIRAL
SPRINGS w
separately
CASED
m
m
T7^=¥
THE
"HORDERNIAN"
Spring-filled
MATTRESS
Represents the last word in modern mattress construction, the full-sized mattress
containing 408 spiral springs. Each spring is encased in a separate pocket. Layers
of fleecy felted cotton and hair are placed on each side of the springs, thereby ensuring
perfect comfort and complete relaxation. The covering is of best quality Belgian
Linen Ticking. Various colours,
J> zes --- 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Mattress £5/19/6 £6/17/6 £7/17/6 £B/15/- £9/5/-
In Linen Floral Ticking, 7/6 extra.


Out of the Foc’s’le
TYPES and SAMPLES
by Steve Bennett
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
WHEN the lolanthe sailed from London in
January, 1905, bound for Sydney, her
cargo was described in shipping columns as
“general,” and had her crew been con-
sidered as worthy of notice the same term could have
applied.
There was a consignment of wrinkled, salt-cured
herrings in the hold; and in the fo’c’sle, the oldest
of a miscellaneous crew of sixteen able seamen, there
was wrinkled, salt-cured Jock Macrae. There were
jars and bottles of highly-colored pickles and sauces
which were scarcely less piquant in flavor than the
Shoreditch dialect of Snorky Barnes ; and a new brand
of boot-polish a gleaming black paste in bright
round tins gleamed no blacker than the bright
round smile of “Possum,” the cook, amongst his
newly-polished tins and pans in the galley. Three
apprentices—soft-voiced, rosy-cheeked first-voyagers—
shuffled haltingly, and a fourth lean, straight,
resourceful, in his third year—strutted superciliously
above three hundred cases of a soft, powdered food
for infants and one hundred cases of strong adulterated
essence of coffee in narrow square-shouldered bottles.
Stowed high in the ’tween-decks, far above the
barrels of cement and whiting, the cases of machinery
and all the rest of that miscellaneous “general” cargo,
and packed in bales of fifty and consigned to Messrs.
Hargood and Bodler, of York-street, there were five
hundred special samples of a high-grade brown-and-
gold woollen blanket. On the poop deck, his classical,
confident features radiating a palpable warmth of
golden good-humor, reigned brown-bearded Captain
Henry Macpherson.
Captain Macpherson was well acquainted with
his ship and his cargo and thoroughly understood the
characteristics of the average crew. The crew were
acquainted with neither captain nor cargo but
thoroughly understood the conditions in the average
windjammer. It was only when the conditions aboard
the lolanthe proved to be rather below average that
the crew was found to possess some rather unusual
characteristics.
Old Jock Macrae was the first to make the
suggestion, ten days out.
“She’s the hungriest wagon I’ve struck in thirty
years!” he growled, sinking his stained and scat-
tered fangs into an ugly little chunk of what had
been, four years previously, a fat pig. “And yet,” he
continued, peering round with keen eyes at his
munching shipmates, “in a general cargo for Australia
there must be tons of good grub!”
The watch below agreed, and washed the ancient
salt pork down with pannikins of black tea. Jock
Macrae’s scraggy brows descended on his prominent
cheekbones like the fag-ends of wire strops.
“What I said, Snorky,” he asserted with an
emphasis that brought awakening to the broad-
mouthed Barnes, “was that there’s plenty good grub
below these starvation decks!”
Snorky grinned silently and expansively for a
moment, then: “Jock, yer young rascal! Puttin’ such
ideas inter the ’eads of honest men! Men, wot do
yer fink of ’im?”
The men chuckled openly and honestly. A
stocky Swede rose from the edge of a lower bunk,
steadied himself against the heave of the Atlantic,
lumbered to the fo’c’sle doorway and stood gazing
out. A moment later he reported: “De fore hatch is
veil battened down, boys, but ve can bust it.”
“One corner’ll be enough,” casually added an-
other of the hungry diners; “and we’ll be on deck
to-night in the middle watch.”
That night, however, owing to the necessity of
shortening sail during the dark hours of the middle
watch, and to the need for avoiding noise in the
forcing of wedges, it was almost eight bells before
one small case was hauled up on the end of a rope
and smuggled into the dimly-lighted fo’c’sle.
Two marauders climbed out of the hold, and
the hatch tarpaulins were hastily replaced as both
watches filed aft to muster.
There was a craning and swaying of necks a few
minutes later as old Jock prised the case open with
a marlinspike, and splutters of amusement as he
picked out two samples of the contents —two bright
round, flat tins of the new brand of boot-polish.
Jock himself was the only one to realise the
seriousness of the matter, and his profane disgust
was but deepened when Snorky dragged off his
sea-boots and commenced smearing it into them
with the palm of his hand. That being considered
at once the most practical and satisfactory way of
disposing of boot-polish, the tins were dis-
tributed amongst the crew for future use,
and the watch turned in with satisfied con-
sciences but disappointed appetites.
Appetites, however, during the follow-
ing few days, were also satisfied by a
variety of goods distributed in the fo’c’sle. Heavily-
spiced pickles were relished as dessert. Infants’ food
was mixed to a dough in tin plates and taken to the
galley for baking. Hot sauces drowned the nauseous
rancidity of the salt junk, and coffee essence supplied
the missing flavor to the pale concoction sent into the
fo’c’sle each morning by Possum and designated
breakfast.
The only portion of all this booty that caused
trouble to the plunderers was the quarter-gross tins
of wrinkled, heavily-salted Scotch herrings, which,
defying all efforts to make them palatable to any
but the wrinkled, heavily-salted Scotchman, were
eventually piled into his bunk while he slept, the lot
being exhibited to the grinning fo’c’sle by Snorky as
“Mummies from the ’lghlands, gentlemen—the chief-
tain ’imself an’ the ’ole blinkin’ Clan Macrae in one
grave!”
HrHE unusual characteristics of the crew soon made
I themselves evident to Captain Macpherson. The
uniform blackness of sixteen pairs of deck-boots
suggested some method of self-discipline strange to a
windjammer’s fo’c’sle, while the atmosphere of the
fo’c’sle itself, wafted through the open doors at meal-
times, carried odors reminiscent of the East Indies.
Also, the hilarity of members of the crew clustered
round the galley in the dog-watches seemed excessive ;
for according to the regulation scale of provisions
the evening meal consisted merely of the cheapest,
most depressing China tea and the hardest, most
weevily provocative biscuit.
So Captain Macpherson strolled forward as far
as the galley just before five o’clock one evening to
investigate. He found Possum standing, with hands
on hips and a mammoth display of gleaming white
teeth, proudly regarding the sweet-smelling, well-
browned contents of eight tin plates lined up on
the side of the stove. At sight of the captain in the
doorway Possum’s eyes bulged roundly, his teeth
disappeared suddenly, his hands Slid down busily to
wipe themselves on his apron.
“What is that?” inquired the captain curiously,
nodding towards the stove and then stepping in
deliberately to inspect the cook’s domain.
“Dat’s a kind ob crackerhash de boys make, sah,”
explained Possum affably, poking at the fire with
unnecessary vigor. “I guess dere’s crushed biscuit
in it, sir.”
The captain sniffed suspiciously, picked up an
empty tin from under the galley seat and carefully
studied the label. “H’m! So that’s it! Benson’s
Infants’Food! Broaching, eh? Who is doing this?”
“De crew, sah —de whole crew, I guess,” replied
Possum, his white teeth exposed in malicious merri-
ment ; “because, sah, dey’re hungry!”
Captain Macpherson stepped out through the
doorway and turned to face the cook. He stroked
his venerable beard thoughtfully, as though undecided
about the wording of his ultimatum. Possum lifted
a big iron kettle of fiercely boiling water and clanked
it down in the same place. The captain gazed a
moment at the appetising dishes awaiting delivery and
then moved quietly away, still thoughtfully stroking
his beard.
“This is a serious matter, sir,” declared the mate
five minutes later in the saloon, “and I’ll stop their
little game at once! The fore hatch has been tam-
pered with, and Lord knows what’s missing already!
I’ll have it battened down again more securely, and
I’ll set young Thompson to watch those thieving
swine for’ard. Thompson, sir, is the most con-
scientious boy in the half-deck.”
Captain Macpherson agreed to everything, but
with much less emphasis and much more good-humor
than the mate might have expected; and as the mate
was leaving the saloon to carry out his plans the
captain reminded him, very gently, “You know, Mr.
Reynolds, I came out of the fo’c’sle myself. I under-
stand, better than you do, the contempt of the fo’c’sle
for owners of ships and ships’ cargoes.”
“Damned old fool!” muttered the mate, striding
forward to show his own contempt for the fo’c’sle
and his own loyalty to the owners of ships and ships’
cargoes. “Get these hatch tarpaulins off,” he
snapped, “and get them back again properly! By
God, there’ll be gaol for some of you dirty thieves
over this!”
So the dirty thieves of the watch on deck went
sorrowfully about the task. Those of the watch
below looked on with mixed regret and amusement
from behind their plates of baked infants’ food and
their handfuls of hard biscuit with pickled cauliflower
and onion.
“This ’ere’s a serious matter,” grumbled Snorky
Barnes ruefully, “stoppin’ our whack of ’olesome grub
so sudden. We’ll all ’ave ter starve now —excep’ the
ole walrus from the ’lghlands; an’ ’e can fank Gord
fer givin’ ’im a taste fer levver ’errin’s in sorltpetre.”
The Scotchman scowled his disdain of Cockney
humor, while two or three of his more cheerful ship-
mates rolled grinning to the door to hear the mate
fuming and to get a closer view of the men outside
driving the wedges home.
“She’ll take a lot o’ bustin’ now,” remarked the
stocky Swede brightly, “but ve can bust ’er just de
same.”
“We can’t!” growled Jock. “They’ll watch the
hatch too close after this. You can hear how cranky
the mate is, but Possum says the old man was so
mad he couldn’t even find his tongue!”
“I don’t like them sort,” declared Snorky. “Yer
never knows wot a bloke like that is finkin’ abaht.
Why don’t ’e call the blinkin’ crahd aft an’ tell us
jist wot ’e’s goin’ ter do abaht it?”
And presently, the mate’s watch coming in for
the last five minutes before four bells, the conversa-
tion brightened up on the question of probable,
possible and grotesquely impossible penalties for
broaching cargo.
'T'HE following afternoon Captain Macpherson
I called the lean, straight, resourceful apprentice
to a private and confidential interview.
“Thompson,” he began severely when the most
conscientious boy in the half-deck was seated on the
opposite side of the saloon table, “the fore hatch has
been securely battened down.”
Thompson examined the grain in the gently
swaying teakwood table. “Yes, sir.”
“The mate has instructed you to keep a sharp
lookout and report any further attempt at broaching.”
Thompson raised his eyes with an expression
befitting the most conscientious boy. “Yes, sir.”
“It is possible, Thompson, now that you are
watching the fore hatch, that an attempt may be made
to enter the hold by way of the for’ard ventilator,
which goes down from the fo’c’sle-head. I’ve seen
that done, Thompson.”
Thompson’s eyes dilated. His mouth opened.
“Oh!”
“There is a valuable consignment of woollen
goods exceptionally fine blankets, in fact —in the
’tween-decks, Thompson, just abaft the main hatch.
Every one of those blankets is worth much more than
a few paltry tins of boot-polish or jars of pickled
onions, Thompson!”
Thompson was again inspecting the table, this
time so concernedly and breathlessly that he neglected
to respond.
“That will do, Thompson.”
Thompson remained silent till he had reached
the third step on the companion stairway, replying
then very softly to his highly-polished deck-boots.
“Aye-aye, sir.”
As the boy disappeared Captain Macpherson,
with a grimace of disgust, brushed his hand across
his face and forcibly expelled a breath.
“If there’s one thing I detest in a conscientious
boy,” he muttered, “it’s the smell of onions!”
A T four bells in the first watch that night Jock
Macrae relieved the lookout on the fo’c’sle-head.
A few minutes later, when Snorky Barnes joined him,
he was on his knees, removing the lashing from the
canvas cover of the ventilator. Snorky lifted out
the wooden plug, sniffed at the warm draught that
came up, and measured the diameter of the tube
with his hands.
“Y’re barmy! Yer noo idea’s rotten!” he
grumbled. “ ’Oo the ’ell can crawl dahn that?”


“The idea ain’t new, cocky! The Old Man
knows it! And it ain’t rotten, because there’s two
can get down—the two skinniest and slimiest eels
aboard this hooker: young Thompson and you!”
Snorky gripped the edge of the ventilator with
both hands, poked his head down and discovered
with surprise that he could almost squeeze his
shoulders in also.
“Blimey!” he whispered; “wiv me jacket an’
jersey orf I’d fall dahn! Ole son me muvver should
’ave made me a bleedin’ jockey!”
“To-morrow night, Snorky,” chuckled the old
Scotsman, patting his confederate’s hunched shoulders,
“you’ll have two hours, afore you go to the wheel, to
do some jockeyin’around the’tween-decks. Let’s get
this cover on again The Old Man’s whistle!
Away you go!”
'T'HE most conscientious boy in the half-deck cer-
* tainly kept a close watch on the subsequent
attempts at broaching the cargo. Each night for a
week he spent more or less of his watch on deck in
ihe company of Snorky Barnes, exploring the tween-
decks with the aid of lighted matches and a slush-
. , j. : & . 1
lamp and sending up to the man on lookout an
appetising assortment of edibles not found on the
seamen’s official menu. Then, for a change, having
ripped the covering from one of the bales stowed
just abaft the main hatch, they sent up a sample of
those high-grade brown-and-gold blankets.'
The fo’c’sle’s reception of that special sample
was most encouraging. It was handled gently, as a
fragile and unaccustomed gift. Its beauty was appre-
ciated in gasps of admiration. In the heart of every
man who laid his hard, soiled palms upon its soft,
clean surface there was awakened the desire for
possession. So the whole bale of fifty was transferred
to the fo’c’sle, and eight were transferred from the
fo’c’sle to the half-deck—two apiece for himself and
his mates —by the resourceful, most conscientious
apprentice.
Events then moved rather rapidly, the first being
a race between the three less conscientious appren-
tices to inform the captain. There followed a brawl
in the half-deck, Thompson hammering each of the
other three and stacking the eight blankets into his
own bunk. The mate reproached Thompson, cursed
him, cuffed him, and kicked him down the poop
steps' and Captain Macpherson after an offering
£ =
sons full confession, quietly advised the mate: I
think, Mr. Reynolds, it might be , as well to block
,5 0 0 u Ven T 0r V ng,h °/ Cable u YoU
could fix a bar of some sort across to form a bottom
and then drop sufficient cable down to fill the
ventilator up. I remember seeing that done many
years ago—when I was in the fo’c’sle myself.”
Mr. Reynolds thereupon lashed the crew to
activity with a selection of wonderfully abusive
i i ,i • i . . ,
phrases, and the crew grinned its appreciation and
obeyed orders, realising that, although this at last
put an end to the actual broaching, there was in the
fo’c’sle a good supply of tinned, bottled and packeted
additions to the regulation scale of provisions. There
was also the anticipation of a fair price for high-
grade blankets in Sydney to augment the cash allow-
ance in port
The benevolent attitude of Cap-
tain Macpherson toward his crew was
unchanged. He made no threats, nor
did he even comment on what the
mate termed the criminal instincts of
the men.
Jock Macrae considered him the
most lenient skipper he had ever sailed
with, and the angles and seams on
Jock’s hairy face failed to conceal his
pride each time he remarked, with
exaggerated accent, “This auld mon
belongs tae Glasgie—and Ah’m a
Glasgie mon masel’!”
Snorky Barnes was not so opti-
mistic.
“I don’t like these ’ere fatherly
ole blokes,” he declared. “If ’e’d lose
’is Weedin’ temper an’ rouse us up a
bit we’d know wot ’e’s finkin’ abaht.
’E’ll ’ave us all in the blinkin’ jug as
soon as we tie up in Sydney—see if
’e don’t!”
\\ 1 HEN the lolanthe tied up in
* * Sydney, however, and the crew
retained their freedom during the first
week, even Snorky’s suspicions were
allayed, and he was the first to
smuggle a blanket ashore and sell it
to a dealer. The ten shillings he got
provided him and Jock with a merry
evening; and, rolling aboard at mid-
night, they found the head of the
gangway guarded by one of the less
conscientious apprentices.
After spending several minutes in
vain attempts to get close enough to
thrash the youth, they rocked arm-in-
arm along the deck into the fo’c’sle.
Here, unable in their exhilaration to
postpone the account of their good
fortune, they commenced by waking
and entertaining their shipmates with
what was intended to be singing, and
then loudly announced between songs the address of
the dealer and the price he was willing to pay for
high-grade brown-and-gold blankets.
Their shipmates, sleepy and annoyed, were not
so interested as the young watchman, who had
followed the two revellers and now stood, very wide
awake, just outside. When Snorky and Jock had
eventually been persuaded, by the overwhelming
vehemence and direfulness of their shipmates’ threats,
to climb into their bunks, the apprentice stole aft
a § ain to resume his watch at the gangway.
At 1 a.m. Captain Macpherson came aboard,
struggling to preserve the demeanor of strict recti-
tude. His tone was severe but his voice rather thick
as be addressed the less conscientious apprentice:
“What the devil are you hangin’ round the deck for,
boy?” -
The boy spoke up brightly and dutifully: “You
told me to keep watch, sir, till you came aboard.”
“j d j d> did I? Well, what the devil is there to
watch? Go below!” 5
“ Ba rnes and Macrae have come aboard drunk ,
s j f and ”
’ t , u/ , 9T . . , r „ •.
What? Is it a crime, boy, for a sailor to come
, , , . 9 „
d oa f rUn ’ .
They got the money, sir—-ten shillings by
selling one of the stolen blankets.
“Ten shillings, eh? Stolen blankets, eh?”
The captain stroked his beard with one hand,
steadying himself with the other on the accommoda-
tion-ladder. His expression was hidden in the
shadows, but the movements of his head and shoulders
suggested strong endeavors to control himself.
“So that’s it!” he said at length. “Very well, my
boy, you turn in—and after breakfast in the morning
send Thompson to me.”
He started unsteadily for the alleyway leading to
his own quarters ; but, checking himself suddenly, he
rasped “Come here, you half-deck rat! Now, listen
to me! Broaching cargo, from the point of view of
the fo’c’sle, is not stealing! Go below!”
In the morning, after his officers had gone about
their work, the captain interviewed Thompson.
“Thompson, did you know that Barnes and
Macrae were going ashore last night to sell one of
those blankets?” he asked sternly.
«-vr n » rpn u pf | Thommon hnnestlv •“T heard
’u \ ?*n +u- P - » Y ’
nothing about it till this morning. _
u’ u.,.
h Y and let dip hear^bout ft I’ll hand von over
to the police. You’ve been with me three years,
* T »
Thompson, and I m ashamed of you! Be off!
Thompson worked with the crew all the morning,
and at noon redeemed himself. The men, he reported
c o n fi dentiall y t 0 t he ca Pt am , were laying plans for a
5 T“ S it !! 1S ? MarrTe and
each with a blanket, were to follow .Macrae and
B . th dealer > s ’ and a ii were to meet later at
TT to the dealer s, and all were to meet later at
e eoa ? e '
During the afternoon, then, the manager of
Messrs. Hargood and Bodler received a note fiom
Captain Henry Macpherson to the effect that the miss-
J ng bale of woollen goods about which the firm had
been lnc l uirm B’ might possibly have been taken from
the cargo during the voyage; and it might also be
possible that two members of the crew would that
night attempt to smuggle the last of the goods ashore,
The manager replied with a courteous letter of thanks
for Captain Macpherson’s assistance, and indicated
that the matter was now one for the police,
Captain Macpherson read the letter very slowly,
thanked the most conscientious apprentice very coolly
for going the errand, and sat stroking his beard for
a considerable time as though doubtful of his own
prudence.
Chipping-hammers rattled merrily on the rusted
steel plates of the lolanthe throughout the day; and
after dark, when the grizzled old Scot and the garru-
lous young Cockney strolled smilingly ashore with
their bundles, eager eyes watched their progress along
the wharf. Eagerness gave way to anxiety, however,
when they were halted by two men who stepped out
from the shadows of a wharf building, and anxiety
became panic when they realised that their shipmates
bad been arrested. The forepeak hatch, which was
m the fo’c’sle itself, was thrown back and the beauti-
ful high-grade, brown and gold special samples were
bundled hurriedly down on the store of galley coal.
THE two prisoners meanwhile were charged with
1 “having in their possession goods reasonably sus-
pected of having been stolen.” They were locked up
and the official document Of “information” was pre-
pared. A search was then made for Captain Macpher-
son, but the captain had gone ashore early in the
evening, and was not discovered till ten o-clock next
morning, when the two policemen entered the Sussex-
street store of Messrs. Hariison and Brown, ship-
chandlers.
The captain was inspecting several coils of rope
and severely criticising the prices quoted by Mr. Har-
rison. The policemen respectfully interrupted the bar-
gaining, explaining that moment would be suffi-
cient to obtain the captain’s signature to a formal
document.
Captain Macpherson, however, was not the type
which signs formal documents offhand. He read
every word deliberately, stroking his beard, and
handed the document back with a regretful shake of
hls head - His voice was a tine blend of surprise and
disappointment. “Macrae! And Barnes! I’m sorry,
but you bave tbe wrong '■ Had you arrested the
ringleaders I might have signed an information. But
two-simple, hones, sailormon. No!”
The persistence of the two policemen was of no
avail, and when the captain and the ship-chandlers
signified their plain resentment of the eontmued mttu-
sion they turned impatiently and left the store. Mr.
Harrison’s appreciation of the captain’s downright
justness and good nature was expressed immediately
j n b j s bna i terms for the sale of the rope. “We’ll
forward the invoice to your agents, captain, at the
prices 1 have quoted ’ and we ’ U allow a llttle rebate
fifippn hpi* to vhj/ Thank von
*’ Y ’ * * . P L • y ° ° Y ’
captain ; goo d morning, sir.
As the smiling captain left to interview the ship-
ping butcher and other dealers in stores and rebates,
Mr. Harrison rubbed his hands gleefully and
remarked to his partner: “A fine old character,
.
(Continued on page 7.)
... .Stepping in deliberately to inspect the
cook's domain.


SAND
by A. C. HEADLEY.
WILSON had come to hate sand. Every morn-
ing at half-past seven he started to lift it.
Tons of it to be shovelled until the muscles
of his shoulders felt like bursting the skin.
He never quite got used to the sand ; always after
a while that ache of straining muscles came to remind
him. It was a dead kind of a job, automatic. Sand
to be shovelled and nothing else. But it was a job
and a pay envelope every Thursday. Every night he
would come home and think of the sand to be
shovelled to-morrow, think of it' piled high on his
shovel and feel the weight of it in his arms.
That was the job he’d had in the beginning, and
it was only the thought of the extra money that had
pushed him into the fight game.
“There’s good dough in it,” Andy Rock told
him, “an’ you oughter do pretty good. Look at
Sammy Berg—you could always beat ’im, an’ what’s
he gittin’? Two six-rounders a week an’ two-poun’-
ten fer each o’ them.”
He could fight, and that meant plenty of fights
in the beginning. Too many, so that he was waking
in the morning with the daze of the night before still
on him. He didn’t feel like work then, especially that
kind of work. Sand to be shovelled until you felt
the weight of it in your muscles by merely thinking
of it. But when he started getting the six-rounders
there didn t seem any need for it, so one morning
when his head began to ache he didn’t get up. He lay
on his back staring at the patched ceiling and thinking
of sand and the foundry boss and the heady intoxi-
cation of having nothing to do.
Then he began thinking of the family: his mother
and father and Zena. They would want him to go to
work. It meant extra money, and what did it matter
how he felt? Extra money for the old man’s beer;
Zena always harping after new stockings.
He supposed there was nothing he could do about
it. He was the only one bringing in any money. It
irritated him just thinking of it, and he rolled over
in bed and tried to find his way back to sleep. But
the turn had dislodged the old military coat from
the bed and he began to feel the cold.
He could hear someone moving about down-
stairs, the sound of water filling a kettle, the metallic
sounds of the stove. He had no doubt it was his
mother. Trust the old man and Zena to be asleep
at this hour. He climbed out of bed, pulled on his
trousers and a sweater over his head, and, not wait-
ing to put on his shoes, made his way downstairs.
His mother showed her surprise. “Wot’s got
inter yer? Why ain’t yer at work? It’s near eight
o’clock.”
He was always just a little scared of his mother.
‘I didn’t feel up to it,” he said slowly ; “besides,
it ain’t necessary, wot with the money I git fer fightin’.
I been thinkin’ about givin’ it up fer munce.”
It was dark in the kitchen; there were no win-
dows, and the light that came from the bathroom
door seemed chopped off and frozen in its tracks.
He could follow the silhouette of his mother framed
against it, the untidy ends of her hair sticking out
from her shoulders. But his
eyes soon dropped from her
face, and ended where stock-
ings concertina’d uglily over
her slippers.
“Yer mean yer’ve give it
up fer good?”
He nodded.
“Wot’ll yer father say?”
It was always that, but
the words meant nothing.
The old man was a fumbler,
never sure where his fumbling
was leading, fervent only in
the hope that some miracle
would condense it into a mug
of beer. But “Wot’ll yer
father say?” had become
something of a fetish, the
mouthings of his mother.
He had a desire to tell
her what the hell he cared
what the old man said. In-
stead: “I’ll git more money
jist out of fightin’. Maybe
I’ll be champion one day.
Yer never know. Besides,
Webb’ll git me more fights,
an’ it won’t make no dif-
f’rence me not workin’.”
“Yer father won’t like
it.”
It was her way of telling
him that she didn’t like it.
He shrugged.
He could hear sounds
upstairs now, shoes on the
floor. Zena. His mother
went in to call the old man
and apprise him of this new
development.
But it went off all right. His father merely sat
down and fixed his watery eyes on the plateful of
porridge. Zena was different.
“My,” she said, “the gentleman stays home to-
day! ”
He f e j t a su dden wave of anger. “Yeah, and
everyday. Wot’s it gotter do with you, anyway? You
shut your gob -
Breakfast over, he went into the little chopped-
of* backyard, and sat in the brief patch of morning
sun it was good just sitting there feeling the warmth
of tbe sunj consc j ous 0 f an ever-increasing laziness,
He didn’t want to get up, but at ten o’clock he made
the effort and went down to the gym.
HP HE gym. was an old loft tacked on to the end
A of a lane. An amateurish sign painted on the iron
wa n conveyed the information that it was Webb’s
Gym. Steep stairs led up from a gate to the gym.
itself. Pictures of fighters seemed to have been pasted
on every available bit of s P ace -
Webb Was sur P rised to see him - “ Not workin’,
Trumpet?”
They all called him Trumpet from the way he
' hrOUgh “ S " OSe wh ™ he was figh,ing ’
When he lashed a punch the sound seemed to spurt
out ° f his noSe ’ He had not been Trumpet in tha
ginning. It had been some absurd name like Tiger
or Slam or sometbin g J he hardly remembered. Then
a left had crashed into his nose, and after it had
healed it was squashed, driven into his cheeks, and
he made asthmatical sounds when he breathed.
“I turned it up,” he answered ; “that’s wot I come
up about. I gotter git more fights. I need the dough.”
Webb nodded. “Maybe I can fix it. I could
fit you in for to-night if you want it-a six.”
“Suits me.”
That was the beginning. He got more fights
then Three sometimes four fiehts a week that
f ’ . * mes " ghts . a eek * So that
* t fact that he had no job was unimportant, except
when his mother made comments about his father
u° th £° W eXtra m ° ney
that bls Job w °uld have brought in.
j was cbmb i n S now, and there were ten-
funders; fights that brought him in more money
than two weeks ot shovelling sand. But the ten-
rounders were too good for him, and the climb
stopped. It was hard up there, and after a fight he
wanted to stay in bed all day > s * ay until his
head cleaned Then there came a time when there
ens ’ u on y sixes.
was P°Pul ar - He could slug, and that was
wbat |uey wanted. He was getting three six-rounders
a week ’ and tbat brou §ht him in good money.
Then came the trouble about Zena.
R was quite unexpected as far as he was con •
cerne( h His mother told him about it over breakfast,
“Your sister’s in trouble.” She said it without
feeling, as though it meant nothing to her, as though
At was of common occurrence.
He looked at his sister across the table, conscious
that his feelings in the matter were free from hos-
tility. But she had a brazen defiance for him. Her
puffy face with its circles of rouge stared back at him.
“Your sister’s gorn an’ got ’erself into trouble,”
his mother’s thin voice persisted.
“Who’s the feller?” he inquired wearily.
“Andy Rock.”
There was money to find for that. Andy had
none ; he was on the dole. It meant more fights.
Webb saw that he got them. But his eyes were getting
that glaze, and his weight was beginning to fall on
his heels when he walked. But he went on fighting
until his face was flattened back, making it look as
though his forehead was trying to climb over it. He
had to think over things for a long time before he
said anything.
Then Zena’s trouble was over, and there was
nothing to suggest that it had ever been. But it had
cost him money; it had cost him just so many fights.
And by that time even the six-rounders were rare,
and he was getting a couple of fours a week at thirty
bob a fight and five out for the trainer.
“U/HY don’ yer git more fights?” his mother
“ “ wanted to know.
He hardly ever answered her these days, but the
question stuck in his mind. He asked Webb.
“Listen, Trumpet,” Webb told him, “you’re nearly
finished. ’Ow long’s it since you won a fight? Soon
it’ll be out for you. There ain’t no standin’ still in
this game. When they don’ want you I can’t make
them give you fights 4 Take my advice an’ git out
before you turn into a ‘punchy.’ Trumpet, you ain’t
gonna git more fights; it’s gonna be less an’ less until
there ain’t any more.”
Trumpet shuffled his feet. “But it ain’t that,
Webby. Hones’, it ain’t. I’m young, ain’t I? I
been gettin’ too much trainin’. I’ve gorn stale, that’s
wot it is, Webby. Hones’, Webby, I’m good as ever
I was.”
Webb’s eyebrows lifted in disbelief. “Telling me
I made a mistake. Orright. Tell yer what I’ll do —
’member Joey Mathews?”
Trumpet nodded. “Yeah. ’E was a pushover
fer me.”
“Was is what I been tellin’ yer, Trumpet. It ain’t
him that’s the pushover no more. It’s you. I’ll get
you a six with him. If yer win I’ll see you get more
fights. You don’t and you’re out. Right?”
“I could lick ’im easy.” He was confident.
“It’s out if you don’t.”
He went into training for it, spending his after-
noons in the gym.
D UT at the end of the third round he knew that
he was beaten.
Mathews’s left was stabbing into him. He could
taste the salty tang of blood in his mouth, feel the
trickle at the corner of his mouth. His eyes were
puffed, and he could feel the tightness of skin in the
old wound over his eye.
Mathews had changed. He was slipping Trum-
pet’s punches easily. There was weight in his punches,
too. Trumpet was feeling the hurt of them.
He came out of his corner in the fourth with
that thought running wild in his head. He had to
get close enough to smash, smash with that right of
“Your sister’s gorn an’ got
’erself into trouble,” his mother’s
thin voice persisted.


Brown; one of the old school, you know, the old
school of simple, honest sailormen!”
An hour later, in the police court, the case
against William Barnes and John Macrae was dis-
missed. The two surprised seamen were ushered from
the courtroom into the office and presented with their
blankets and a few words of congratulation and
advice.
“You fellows are very lucky,” said the officer,
“not to be going along for a stretch of three months.
Better go straight aboard before you get into further
trouble —and thank your captain for his kindness.”
“Captain Macphairson is the finest skipper Ah’ve
ever sailed with,” declared Jock enthusiastically. “He’s
a Glasgie mon —like masefl!”
“ ’E’s the sorftest-’earted bloke in the world!”
added Snorky, tucking his blanket under his arm.
“An’ it ’urts me nah ter fink I ’ad me suspicions abaht
’im. Fanks, sargint, very much.”
THE crew were at their midday meal when Jock
and Snorky stepped into the fo’c’sle, and the
noisy demonstration of delight and welcome had not
yet subsided when young Thompson shouted from
the doorway: “Barnes and Macrae, the Old Man
wants to see you in the saloon —with the blankets.
Thompson accompanied them, and they found
Captain Macpherson wearing an expression of
extreme severity and stroking his beard more
deliberately than usual. “Thompson, take those
blankets and put them in the corner.”
The guilty and contrite sailors saw their blankets
thrown to build an already existing little pile of
brown and gold.
“Thompson, bring Williams, Bourke and Evans
—with their blankets. Stay where you are, you two.”
The captain sat down to write. Snorky and
Jock stood nervously silent. The captain rose again
as Thompson entered with Williams, Bourke and
Evans. “Thompson, take those blankets and put them
in the corner. Bring Hanson, Brophy and Schultz —
with their blankets. Stay where you are, you three.”
Sixteen bewildered seamen and forty-nine ruffled
blankets were eventually assembled before the serenely
dominating captain. For a few painful moments he
regarded each member of his crew with penetrating,
reproachful eyes. When at length he did speak, his
voice was just audible. “Men, you may go. Thomp-
son, you stay.”
The men went thankfully, almost reverently;
and when the last had shuffled through the alleyway
to the main deck the captain turned to the most
conscientious apprentice, a fleeting glimmer of triumph
in his good-humored smile. “Ten shillings! Ridicu-
lous! Keep two for yourself, Thompson, and stow
the rest in the lazarette before the mate comes back
from the ship-chandlers. If that crowd for’ard want
blankets on the voyage home they can have them out
of my slop-chest— at twenty shillings!”
his. But Mathews was stabbing the left in his face,
keeping him the length of that arm. It was deaden-
ing the mad insistence of that' punch, making him
tired.
He had his chance. The left had propped, and
he had allowed it to find his glove high on the
shoulder. Every bit of the power that remained with
him went into the fierce swing of that right cross.
It landed flush on Mathews’s jaw, it’s force swinging
him away. But Mathews didn’t topple. He back-
moved, taking the force of'Trumpet’s attack on his
gloves and forearms. Then suddenly he spun away,
shaking his head. Punches began to pick their way
through Trumpet’s defences.
He didn’t care now. He had failed. A year ago
that punch would have ended any fight. Now its
power was gone. It was only the question of the
final bell, with the referee’s hand falling on Mathews’s
head. That was all, that and a vagrant hope that
somehow, someway
But it didn’t happen. Mathews was too solid for
him. He had only one thing left, the power to remain
on his feet. He was needing that power, too, with
Mathews’s punches stabbing through his defences.
Punches thudded on his gloves, his arms, found their
way through, crashing on his mouth, sogging into his
stomach. A punch thudded into his mouth, and the
salt taste of blood went into his throat.
Then it was the handshake round, and he knew
that his fighting was almost finished. He told him-
self that he was glad, but he wasn’t. It didn’t matter
how hurt he was, he wanted to go on fighting.
It was over at last, and the referee with his hand
on Mathews’s head. The feel of a wet sponge wiping
the blood from his face. Mathews grinning, shaking
his hand. Crowd noise. His name being torn from
the corner board to make way for the next fight. The
long pad to the dressing-room. Webb. “Sorry, Trum-
pet, but it had to come.”
The feel of notes in his hand. Six-rounders at
two-pound-ten with twenty-five per cent, for the
trainer.
I—| E came out of the stadium and walked.
* * He didn’t think. He was incapable of
thought. The feel of night was strangely soothing,
and he was a long way from home before thought
of the family crept into his mind. He hadn’t told
his mother anything about Webb’s ultimatum. But
he had to now. He knew how she would take it.
She was still up when he got home.
“I knew something like this would ’appen. That’s
wot comes of tossin’ yer job up. I don’ know wot yer
father’ll say when ’e ’ears about it. Wot’s the matter
with yer anyway yer can’t win a fight?” Her thin
voice was getting shriller. “ ’Oo’s Webb, anyway, t’
tell yer yer ain’t gittin’ no more fights? There’s more
trainers than one, ain’t there?”
He hardly heard her. The feel of that last fight
was still on him. He spoke suddenly. “I ain’t fightin’
—not no more.”
Now she was starting to snivel. “What we gonna
do if there ain’t no money coming in? Yer father
can’t git no work. We’ll ’ave t’ starve, that’s all.”
“I’ll git a job.”
L_J E got a job. Sand. Every morning at half-past
* * seven he started to lift it. Tons of it to be
shovelled until the muscles of his shoulders felt like
bursting the skin. A dead kind of job, automatic.
But it was something, and a pay envelope every
Thursday. Every night he would come home and
think of the sand to be shovelled to-morrow, think
of it piled high on his shovel and feel the weight of
it in his arms.
He liked it, the satisfaction of something to do,
something without thought, without worry.
His mother said; “Yer father wants to know
why you don’ git back into the fightin’. There’s more
money in it.”
But it took him a long while now to puzzle out
what people were talking about, and he rarely listened
to what his mother was saying.
Hooves Through the Village.
A man on a black hcfrse
Rang down the silver dark,
Whose hooves such havoc raised
The village sheathed in bark
The woody village blazed.
Those hoofbeats flashed the spark
That wrecked the towers of Troy,
So twenty years’ green work
Were nothing to destroy.
Now though that town of wood
In green sleep sleeps again,
Like hoofbeats down my blood
I hear my dark heart strain;
And know with sudden pride
Watching the cold mare rain
Stamp silver the black road,
I am that rider’s kin
And after him I ride.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
CROOK!
By SEAN O'MOORE.
OLD Nat rasped the beer froth off his scrubby
mo, cocked a range-finding eye, and with-
out apparent effort scored a bull’s-eye in the
spittoon ten feet distant.
“Wish they was all as straight as you, Nat,”
grinned Hogan, as he mopped up the slops off the
counter. “ ’Nother beer?”
Nat drew himself up to his full five feet, and
for the further edification of the others in the bar
raised another puff of dry ash in the spittoon, then
dug in his pockets for tobacco.
“Beer,” he agreed, hoisting one battered high-
boot and scratching a match across the tightened
seat of his cord breeches. “Them as ain’t straight
ends up in a mess always. Not as I ’olds with a man
settin’ up to be a saint, for there’s dealin’s that
ain’t accordin’ to the letter that’s needful at times,
an’ on the other ’and there’s low down crawlin’
crookedness.”
Foul vapors began to rise from what Nat called
“a well-seasoned briar,” and Hogan, who had smelt
many a weird smoking apparatus, moved hastily to
windward flapping his pot-wiper.
“Take Darkie West, f’rinstance,” came from the
centre of the cloud of vile haze. “Never could be
straight. It was just low petty crookedness that
settled him.”
The others braving the stench, closed in a bit to
listen. Old Nat was off again.
“For forty years I’ve rid ’orses,” went on Nat,
“mostly of the race-and-chase variety, in all weathers
an’ on all sorts o’ tracks. I’ve rid ’em from when
they ran as if they knew the produce merchant was
dunnin’ for the feed bill an’ was threatenin’ to cut
off supplies, to when I ’ad to be careful they didn’t
overreach themselves. An’ I’ve been misunderstood
by the stewards for that last a few times. I’ve met
all manner o’ twisters that scrounged a livin’ squattin’
across the ridgepole of honest prads, but for crooked
meanness Darkie was the daddy of ’em all.”
Nat gazed with patent disapproval at his empty
pot. The tide rose in it and fell half way.
“You probably don’t remember old Clatterfoot,”
went on Nat. “’E never figured in Miller’s Guide,
but ’e always earned ’is oats an’ a bit over, an’ an
honester moke never kicked up the turf. ’E won a
few Welters an a Novice or two at the Park an’ the
Farm, so ’e didn’t do so bad.”
The rest of the tide went out in Nat’s pot and
there was a pause till it rose again.
“ ’E belonged to Sam Barry, a good friend o’
mine, ’an’ Sam put the polish on ’im ’imself. I rode
’im every time ’e faced the tapes. Sam was in pretty
low water at one time, an’ one Saturday we both
thought Clatterfoot could win the Welter at the Farm,
so in goes the cash. I put in a fair dollop meself,
but when Sam tells me just what ’e stands to lose
I nearly collapses. Maybe ’e was a fool to plonk all
’e ’ad on, but yer know ’ow it is when a battler’s
confident about ’is ’orse—all or nothin’; that’s the
play.
‘‘ \\I ELL, I sees its up to me an’ Clatter to do some-
** * thing about it, so I makes rapid an’ careful
preparation. We gets out to the course with everythin’
goin’ well, but, as I was mountin’, Sam’s confidence
seems to leave ’im.
“ ‘Fer Gorsake Nat,’ ’e begs, ‘don’t make no
mistake. It’s finish if yer do. Yer know the ’orse.
Now go out an’ win.’ ’E turns away shakin’ like a
jelly.
“Doin’ the prelim., I see Sam standin’ by the
fence grippin’ it ’ard. The paint on the slats wasn’t
no whiter than ’is dial. But the ’orse was movin’ well
an’ I still was pretty confident, so I grins cheery at
him an’ makes old Clatter prance a bit. ’E just stares,
an’ I feel I’ll win or bust, as I makes for the post.”
•‘Bathead, with this same Darkie West up, was the
one I’d been most scared of.
“ ‘Just foller me Nat,’ sneers Darkie as we gets
there. ‘l’ll show yer the way home.’
“I ignores ’im, determinin’ Bathead won’t finish
near enough to smell Clatterfoot’s dust. I was a bit
sorry for old Clatter, but I knew ’e wouldn’t mind if
’e could understand the facts.
“They’re all fairly seasoned prads that contest
them Welters, an’ it didn’t take long to set ’em swingin’.
Bathead hops out as usual for a three lengths lead,
an’ approachin’ the home turn he’s still there, with
Clatter leadin’ the bunch on the rails. As we wheels
into the runnin’ I applies the whip, gentle like, an’
Clatter runs to Bathead, with The Streamer rangin’
up on the outside, an’ we settles down to it, wide open
an’ bellies, to the ground for the run to the judge.
“1 wasn’t afraid of The Streamer. ’E never could
run a mile out, an’ cornin’ to the distance I was
leadin’ Bathead a neck, with the rest nowhere. Just
to make sure, I applies the emergency preparations
at the distance, but there ain’t the response I expected
from Clatter. I could feel ’e was puttin’ ’is ’eart into
the job, but I couldn’t get what was wrong, so I
changes me tactics and rubs the whip into his slats,
whole-hearted like.
“I feels it’s all over when all of a sudden Bat-
head gives a leap an’ a bound that nearly dumps
Darkie out ’o the saddle. Darkie drops ’is whip an’
’angs on, but Bathead scoots away like a shootin’ star
an’ we gets a clear view of ’is tail at three lengths as
’e sails past the judge.
“Darkie don’t know whether to look pleased or
puzzled as he comes back to scale. I follers ’im,
’ardly darin’ to look at Sam. Sam leads Clatter away
without a word, lookin’ sick to the very ’eart. Then
in comes the clerk o’ the course, bringin’ with ’im
the whip Darkie ’ad dropped. As the clerk dismounts
the butt o’ that whip gets ’is moke on the withers, an
the next moment up goes the moke like a wild brumby,
an’ the clerk lands on ’is britches on the lawn. In
another moment ’e’s off ’otfoot for the stipes’ room,
’oldin’ that walloper by the wrist-cord as if ’e was
scared it would bite ’im. ’E disappears with the tails
of ’is red coat flyin’ above the big green stain on the
seat of ’is nice white strides, an’ a fine ’ubbub follers.
Then up goes the protest flag.
.“Darkie was carpeted, and ’e ’adn’t a chance. The
stewards didn’t believe a word of ’is ’owls about not
understandin’ it. There was a bobby-dazzler of a
buzzer in that whip—it would’ve made a Clydesdale
lose a Cup field. The deliberations was short and
sharp. We got the race, Sam got his splosh an’ I got
mine, an’ Darkie, the snoopin’, pilferin’ cow, got outed
for life. ’Ere’s luck!”
The crowd looked puzzled.
“Pilfering?” queried Hogan gathering up the pots
for a shout. “Where does the ‘pilfering’ come in?”
“ ‘Pilferin’ ’ is right,” persisted Nat, and the
ashes in the spittoon fluttered again. “Low-down
pilferin’, an’ it settled ’im. The crooked, thievin’
’ound ’ad pinched my whip.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1565.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued . . . . 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 207 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
112 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ONE
FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATE gives you :
1. An interest in 20 of Australia’s lead-
ing companies.
2. Liberal income yield.
3. High margin of Capital security.
For as little as £22 (approx.) you can
secure an interest in 20 sound enter-
prises, known throughout Australia.
Income is paid twice yearly. Custodian Trustees for investors.
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
MS
1 -'^
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Caused by Tired Kidneys
Many of those gnawing, nagging, painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can
be relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are one of Nature’s chief ways
of taking acids and wastes out of the blood.
A healthy person should pass about 3 pints a
day and so get rid of more than 3 pounds of
'waste matter.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, this poisonous waste stays in
the body. It may start nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Don’t let it lay you up.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to flush out the IS
miles of kidney tubes. So be sure you get
VOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
beautiful but poor, had a “clumsy fate,” no percep-
tible future and a tyrannous aunt; just, indeed, the
very Cinderella that the situation required. So Henry
rescued her and brought her in and was presently
stimulated by the storm to tell a number of things
about himself that he had never told before—how,
from just such a storm that had unroofed half Eng-
land, his grandfather, a tile-maker, had reaped a for-
tune and later died insane with remorse for his greed ;
how in another storm, generations before, a hillside
had been ripped open and a boy and girl from “St.
Martin’s Land” had come through into a Suffolk
field, and the girl with her green-tinted skin and
faery blood had become Cope’s ancestress. He was
not, in fact, quite human. But Lady Molly fell in
love with him and he, just a little later,,with her.
Next day Henry Cope liberated a seal he found
on the beach entangled in a fisherman’s net and
presently a boy came up out of the water, a “sea-
gipsy,” and gave him an antique cup carved from
amber, in gratitude. His whole life began to centre
about the strange and beautiful cup and the enig-
matic boy who gave it. He yielded to the temptation
to take Lady Molly to his rooms to see the cup, and
there they were discovered by her aunt. The only
way out of the situation was to announce their en-
gagement. Then began the battle between Molly and
the sea-gipsy for Henry, between his humanity and his
faery blood. The book comes dramatically alive. It
is a real conflict full of pain and suspense, and the
dialogue in which it is carried through is excellent.
Clemence Dane is a dramatist. She knows how
to make people talk, not naturally perhaps, 'but con-
vincingly. On the night when Henry had to make his
decision whether he would marry and settle down
like any other man or follow the boy into strange
adventures, Molly went out herself to dissuade the
sea-gipsy. It was Molly who was taken and Henry
who was left.
There is power in The Moon is Feminine; power
balanced on a triviality.
Paw and Maw.
Dora Aydelotte’s Trumpets Calling (D. Appleton-
Century Company) is the story of the town of Cloud
Chief on the Cherokee Strip, Oklahoma, from 1893,
when the pioneers raced one another over the prairie
in covered wagons to take up the town lots.
There follows the history of the fight to get a
“deepo”— alias railway station —for Cloud Chief. It
includes the wrecking of a train—no lives lost —and
the gleeful selling of its freight among the citizens.
Then there are the equally robust efforts of the citi-
zens “to get them a court house” by the simple expedi-
ent of building one and then stealing the archives
from a rival establishment.
The most interesting by-product of the book is the
picture of the change from the days when shooting
up a claim-jumper or wrecking a train was considered
a fine manly exercise till the days when the Ladies’
Aid Society looked down its nose at almost every-
thing.
Trumpets Calling, though primarily the story of
a community, finds its focus in one family, Dave and
Martha Prawl (Paw and Maw) and their three
children. Dave was “a bit of tumble-weed” who
always heard the trumpets calling further out.
Poetess Over the Waterfall.
Of the two things mentioned in the title of
Robert Gaythorne-Hardy’s novel, The Wind and the
Waterfall (Collins), the first at least is well represented
in the story.
He takes a small island in the Hebrides inhabited
by a veteran poetess, Caroline Petworth, an old
scholar, Dr. Hope, and the doctor’s daughter Janie.
By one pretext and another he gathers a number of
outsiders there: an artist, a critic, a minor poet, an
amateur politician, a noted philanderer, a lady novel-
ist. He dumps them down and walls them round
with a week-long storm so that they cannot escape.
Shut up together, the spell of the island and of
Janie Hope’s romantic imagination begin to work on
them. They find themselves denuded of their humanity
until they become no more than characters in a work
of fiction. But even so they are not left in peace
because the book they are supposed to inhabit keeps
changing its genre. At one time it is a highly-colored
romance of the Elinor Glynn type, at another a brittle
sophisticated comedy, then it becomes a soul’s tragedy,
finally ceasing to be fiction within a fiction, it becomes
drama with a real corpse.
Caroline Petworth, the poetess, is pushed over the
waterfall just after lunch. Everybody suspects every-
body and indulges in an orgy of amateur detection.
The philanderer suspects himself and the reader is
treated to his prolonged heart-searchings. At last the
storm dies down, communication with the mainland
is resumed, and the spell is broken. Everyone returns
to his proper character, a prosaic murderer with a
prosaic motive is revealed and disposed of, and the
author’s grip relaxes.
The Wind and the Waterfall is a queer and
involved yarn told in a roundabout fashion ; really
just a mystery yarn in false whiskers, and if the con-
cessions to highbrows and concessions to lowbrows
were subtracted there wouldn’t be much book left.
Ashes, Sparks, Apples and Goldfish.
The above assortment comes from F. W. Preece,
Adelaide, in the shape of two neat booklets of verse
—Ashes and Sparks, by Flexmore Hudson, and Torn
Edges, by lan Tilbrook. Mr. Hudson, who lays no
claim to fire, smoulders very pleasantly:
and in my time of trouble borrow
sereneness from a bird that sings,
and take fresh courage from a tree
that thrusts burst buds to the cold and rain
when harsh birds settle on the dead bough-tips.
The other poet, modestly, claims to be an apple :
Lights innumerable . .
passing people . . .
Yet here am I, alone,
as an apple
on a tree when the crop has gone.
An Australian poet whose judgment ought to be
sound introduces Torn Edges with the prophecy that
few will recognise its merits, but that it contains the
essential poetic qualities. So let the goldfish float in
their bowl while the cognoscenti admire “Sic Est
Vita”:
Goldfish . . .
wriggling, red
like animated blood-clots,
spermatozoa darting direction-led,
transparent against reaction-obscurity.
Nightingales for Everyone.
In Nightingale Wood (Longman Green) Stella
Gibbons has recaptured some of the zest of her first
book. She made a flying start with Cold Comfort
Farm, a rich and really amusing satire on the manure-
heap rural motif; then her work fell into thinness and
insignificance, the ekeing out of meagre situations.
But Nightingale Wood is good all-round entertain-
ment.
It is the story of two families in the village of
Sible Pelden, in deepest England ; the Springs, rich
and gay, and the Withers, well-to-do and gloomy.
Victor Spring, young, handsome and rich, lived in a
state of continuous elegance with his widowed mother
and his young sister Hetty, who hated elegance and
loved books and poets—more especially hungry ones.
Victor was engaged to the sort of girl his position,
demanded, but secretly detested her because at heart
he was romantic. On the other side of the village
lived Mr. Wither at The Eagles, a Victorian blot on
an idyllic landscape. He “liked to feel money on all
sides of him like a stout fence.” He had plenty, but
he always observed how much butter people ate, and
his spirits went up and down with the stock market:
Mr. Wither’s money, exhausted by its gyrations in
April, lay on the floor, so to speak, panting quietly,
temporarily safe. Major-General Breis-Cumwitt hung
over it like a devoted aunt, Mr. Wither like a mother.
They could do no more, only watch and pray. Pre-
sently their prayers were heard; the money sat up and
breathed less painfully; soon its pulse was normal.
He had also a son —deceased —who had be-
queathed him a penniless daughter-in-law, Viola, aged
21, whom public opinion constrained him to take in
and feed ; a wife, completely tamed, and two frus-
trated daughters, Madge and Tina, who at 35 fell in
love with the handsome young chauffeur, a local
boy her father was employing cheaply.
Everything works out for the best. Viola mar-
ries her Prince Charming; Victor Spring, through
innocence rather than guile, succeeds in escaping from
his impending marriage ; Hetty escapes to a garret
over a bookshop and a painful and harassing love
affair with a starving poet; Tina, being a woman of
spirit, married her chauffeur and made a very good
job of it. They fled to London and his next employer
left him a hundred and twenty thousand pounds.
Madge attained bliss through partnership in a doe-
breeding establishment and The Eagles is removed by
The author saves her face —and the reader’s pos-
sible yawns—by a fine spray of malicious wit.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction ...
Sunset Gold: John Cannon (Bodley Head). The
romance of a young Texan wheatgrower’s struggle
with neighboring cattlemen.
The Crooked Furrow: Jeffery Farnol (Sampson
Low; Dymock’s). Old London and rural lanes, Bow-
street runners, perfumed beaux, lovely ladies, a swarm
of well-drawn minor characters —and plenty of plot.
As full of romantic vigor as The Broad Highway.
Death in the Morning: Harry Hodge (Angus and
Robertson). As well as two murders and a love affair
there is a plot by a monomaniac to establish a dic-
tatorship in Australia aided by European Powers which
are to be given the Northern Territory as a reward.
The yarn, though it overlooks many important fac-
tors, is ingenious in its way and moves with a rush.
Democracy is saved by prompt police action. The
book grinds no political axes.
General . . .
Scottish Heritage: Rex Welldon Finn (Heine-
mann). An illustrated tourists’ “companion.” Solidly
informative and strongly nationalistic in tone, it
emphasises that Scotland is essentially Celtic and that
those who view it merely as an extension of England
will be seeing it through semi-opaque glasses. A good
job.
Without any apology for wagging it somewhere
on the way, the English “Country Life” publication
Serious Business, by J. H. Dowd and B. E. Spender,
breezes in .here like a burst of spring sunshine.
Like all these “Country Life” picture-book publi-
cations, it’s a tasteful and lovely production; this
particular one a parade of joyous life, delightfully
depicted in both the Dowd drawings and the Spender
essays that crop up here and there to relieve the
gallery. Those who liked Dowd in earlier volumes and
also missed this one on publication can rely on this
lot of Dowd youngsters being, if anything, a more
engaging lot than their predecessors. Many of the
large-page drawings of single figures, heads, or of
groups are in color, and there are some exquisite
jobs among them. Of course there is the Dowd dash
of humor in the presentation of them all.
Five Minute Biographies and Little Known Facts
About Well-known People, by Dale Carnegie (Angus
and Robertson), don’t add much that is new or start-
ling to the world’s knowledge of the celebrities dealt
with, but the anecdotes are engagingly and breezily
presented. When you see a title like “Shakspeare Had
a Shotgun Wedding” you have to find out what Dale
is driving at. Of course, all you get is the old yarn
about Ann Hathaway.
Verse . . .
Poems: Barbare Penrose Marks (Stockwell). First
page has the heartrending couplet:
While year by year increasing sums are spent
To guard against attack by sea and air.
Thereafter, as W. H. Davies would put it, there are
about four Birds, some Bees, a pretty Glen and other
objects of such pleasant unimportance.
Chinese Crackers: William Kean Seymour
(Boriswood). Imitation Chinese verses on the war,
tax-collectors, politicians, tax-collectors, the younger
generation and tax-collectors. About as explosive as
bon-bons.
Poems of To-day, third series : compiled by the
English Association (MacMillan).
While Davies bleats aloud for grass
Georgian poets yearn at spring
Peering through this schoolroom’s glass.
But Auden shakes admonishing
The cane of Spender at the class,
And gnawing at his cud of chalk
Says boys and girls will never pass
Who gaze out windows, loaf or talk.
Wheel and Bobbin : Mona Brand (Deaton and
Spencer, Sydney). Mary Gilmore contributes an intro-
duction to this booklet of pretty lightweights. Some
technical competence and a neat touch of fantasy are
its merits:
Day strides athwart the hill,
Shod in sturdy brogues;
Shod in sturdy leathern shoe,
Clad in boyish shepherd’s blue.


?
??
?
CAN YOU MAKE MONEY WITH
WORDS?
YOUR ability to make money is just as big,
or small, as your ability to employ words.
Your talk, like your efforts, is either negative
or positive. Negative talk means failure,
sickness, pessimism, unpopularity. But positive
talk means success, money and popularity.
You can master the art of conversation and
public speaking and develop a beautiful
“Radio-Quality” voice by the invaluable aid
of the finest course ever offered—the
EFFECTIVE SPEECH Course of Public
Speaking and Voice Culture.
RADIO CAREERS FOR TRAINED
SPEAKERS!
B IG money and high positions await clear-
voiced trained speakers. Radio offers
lucrative and congenial careers to men and
women who know how to use words, who can
develop their ability to speak convincingly and
forcefully. EFFECTIVE SPEECH develops for
you the needed radio personality and equips
you for a successful radio career.
EFECTIVE SPEECH GIVES YOU
SOCIAL PROMINENCE.
who wish to lead their social
organisations, who are (but for their
weakness in speech) capable and energetic
enough to take a leading part in the social,
civic, and professional life of their communi-
ties, will be helped immeasurably by EFFEC-
TIVE SPEECH. And for men who wish to
enter politics or become prominent in public
life, EFFECTIVE SPEECH will prove the
finest aid of all.
GIVEN AWAY
TO ALL WHO WOULD
MAKE PERSONALITY PAY
CAN you estimate your personality in £ s, d.? Can you make it carry you to
social prominence and business success? Or do you realise you need that
little extra to help you over the stile? That little extra your personality needs
is now offered to you, FREE! Seize your opportunity NOW, as a GIFT!
EFFECTIVE SPEECH FOR
SALESMEN.
gALESMEN, in particular, benefit by this
amazing course in public speaking and
conversation. EFFECTIVE SPEECH
reveals the secret of using words, of coin-
ing sentences that work your will. You
will find yourself leaping ahead once you
master this infallible method of success-
attraction. And everyone has something
to sell advice, skill, professional service,
social charm, goods, or personality.
EFFECTIVE SPEECH imparts just that
little extra that makes all the difference
between embarrassment and forceful
dominant confidence.
COMPLETELY CURES
STAGE-FRIGHT.
P FFECTIVE SPEECH shows you how to
conquer embarrassment and vanquish stage-
fright. It gives you that easy confidence pos-
sessed by leaders and celebrities, and will, in a
few weeks, make you a forceful personality,
able to hold your own among the most ac-
complished speakers.
mm
m
\tmMi
w&
m
When Your Words
Mean Money
STOP BEING INARTICULATE.
§TOP feeling tied up inside with embarrassment You know
you have the ability to talk, and talk well. But when the
important occasion arises, you find yourself inarticulate.
EFFECTIVE SPEECH will show you how to liberate your
tied-up personality. EFFECTIVE SPEECH will impart to
your approach a dynamic vitality of speech, the ability to
argue or persuade successfully, and will make you a master
of forceful convincing talk.
INVEST IN
YOURSELF!
THE FINEST COURSE WRITTEN.
EFFECTIVE SPEECH was written by the
leading masters of the art of speaking.
It embodies the secret methods of the great-
est public speakers and teachers. EFFEC-
TIVE SPEECH has made thousands of
people on three continents successful and
happy in business and social life. It is
recommended by leading politicians and
teachers.
ENDORSED BY AUSTRALIA’S LEAD-
ING TEACHERS AND SPEAKERS!
LAWRENCE CAMPBELL says: “EFFEC-
TIVE SPEECH will be a boon to thou-
sands.”
BRUNTON GIBB says: “EFFECTIVE
SPEECH directs the footsteps along the road
to success.”
E. HOWARD POPP says: “Of the six
courses I have on public speaking, EFFEC-
TIVE SPEECH is the only one which enables
the beginner to px*actise the art without the
aid of a tutor.”
E. P. ROWELL says: “EFFECTIVE
SPEECH is the most valuable work I have
on the subject.”
R. KIDSON says: “EFFECTIVE SPEECH
is an outstandingly good course.”
“RYDGE’S BUSINESS JOURNAL” save-
“EFFECTIVE SPEECH makes embarrass -
ment a thing of the past.” ass '
THE MAGICAL POWER
OF A TRAINED VOICE.
\X7 HEN you have developed fully your latent
ability to persuade, convince and in-
fluence others by the power of the spoken
word and the magic of your voice, you may
lay claim to a Persuasive Personality. With
these success-attracting assets your hopes of
success are soon realised ; without them you
struggle against hopeless odds. EFFECTIVE
SPEECH will give you these assets within a
few weeks, so why not begin to acquire them
now?
To Be Obtained Only From
ANGUS & ROBERTSON
LIMITED,
89 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
This Offer Is Definitely
Limited. Make Certain of
Yours By Sending Coupon
To-day!
BIG BUSINESS MEANS
STRONG, DYNAMIC
ABILITY TO TALK.
’T’HE man wl\o gets into the big business
* is the man who can dominate by the
power of his speech, the man who can
address with confidence, and convince
Boards of Directors. EFFECTIVE
SPEECH shows you how to obtain a com-
plete mastery of language, how to make
your talk forceful and convincing. Lack
of this ability keeps otherwise good men
out of Big Business.
FREE!—FOR A LIMITED
NUMBER ONLY—FREE!
These 10 Amazing Titles.
1. “POISE; How to Obtain It.”
2. “INFLUENCE; How to Exert It.”
3. “TIMIDITY; How to Overcome It.”
4. “PERSEVERANCE; How to Develop
It.”
5. “SPEECH; How to Use It.”
6. “PRACTICALITY; How to Acquire It.”
7. “COMMON SENSE; How to Exercise
It.”
8. “OPPORTUNITIES; How to Make the
Most of Them.”
9. “PERSONALITY; How to Build It.”
10. “CHARACTER; How to Strengthen
It.”
THE TEN-VOLUME “MENTAL
EFFICIENCY” LIBRARY
These wonderful aids to person-
ality are yours, free, if you hurry.
This coupon shows you how to
obtain them, and will also bring
you, FREE, our fully-illustrated
book on EFFECTIVE SPEECH.
TEAR THIS
OUT &- POST NOW!
w
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Please send me your FREE book on “EFFECTIVE
SPEECH,” and your ’folder telling me how I
can obtain as* a FREE GIFT the complete
10-Volume “Mental Efficiency” Library.
Name
Occupation
Private Address
Business Address
Bi


a
1 m
-i
9
M
m
'
;~s
j r V'sjfe
m
A
m
■Hil
■■ I
■HM
till
HHp|p
IJBII
M
■ ■"
:
~ "'v ; v
.
v a,v.a
» I
|j|gi|g§ipgip
.
e:
HHI
■
■ j. , ' . SSsr.r
WM ■
• •.
■ :
MBMBEiMBI
-
Hi
■
:■
m
£*/
V ;:1I
:>t V:
msmam
a
»
.
HHHHS
PUS* .<
" >V ' ':
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CD. PTY., LTD.


ANOTHER AUSTRALIAN-ELEVEN WASHOUT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd..
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
JOHNA DA BULLOPOLIS.
Just enough of the truth got out in cables to indicate
that a good deal more could have been told about
those “British” ships bombed in Spanish ports had
cable-senders wished. Items of withheld or over-
looked information now coming along by air-mail
transform what was presented as black tragedy into
hollow farce.
One of the most illuminating hints given per
cable was contained in a few sentences from a London
“Times” letter by Admiral Sir Roger Keyes. This
l|in. fragment “S. M. Herald” printed with the
belittling heading in small type: “Sir Roger Keyes’s
Complaint.” Adelaide “Advertiser” labelled it
“Alleged Registration of Worthless Ships.” Such other
papers as published it at all treated it in like manner.
Sir Roger Keyes’s statement was not a “com-
plaint” ; it was a broadside. Nor was it confined to
the “alleged registration of worthless ships.” Among
other portions wholly omitted by cable-senders was
this concrete assertion:
When a ship flying the Red Ensign was boarded
recently, and was found to be in a disgraceful state and
manned by foreigners, the captain was told that the state
of the ship would be reported; but he only laughed and
said that he had orders never to go into a British
port, but that the Red Ensign ensured his safety from
Odessa to Barcelona.
More concerned for the prestige of the Red
Ensign than the specific bombing of alleged “British”
ships, the Admiral also pointed out that that flag had
hitherto stood as a guarantee of efficiency and that the
personnel working under it had been good ambassadors
to foreign countries.
Harbor authorities all the world over were always
pleased to see the Red Ensign flying alongside their
quays; „ there would be no trouble with those ships;
they would keep to schedule; they would be clean and
well kept and obey harbor regulations; all business
would be settled quickly and honestly.
He insisted that that proud claim could no longer
be sustained, calling as witness “many letters received
from British seamen and others in close touch with
the situation,” which were “distressing to read.”
Through “mushroom companies which had acquired
a number of steamers whose officers and crews receive
high wages to run the risks” the Red Ensign was “in
danger of losing its significance in the world.”
Others, more concerned with getting at the facts
of the immediate question—whether or not Britain
had right or cause to adopt any of the sundry pro-
posed drastic forms of retaliation —began to investi-
gate some of the shipping companies trading with
Spain. One, Mr. Beverley Baxter, M.P., went into
the affront to John Bull’s dignity involved in the sink-
ing of a vessel bearing the good old British name
Thorpeness. The event figured in Australian cable
columns as “Another British Ship Sunk by Bombing.”
Mr. Baxter found that she had belonged to the West-
cliff Shipping Co., a name as British as her own and
as the flag that had flown at her mast. No wonder
Mr. Lloyd George, Granny “Herald” and all fire-
eaters whatever frothed at the mouth!
Mr. Baxter investigated further. He found that
the Westcliff Shipping Co. had been registered in 1936,
on a 1000-shares basis, and with three directors —
Basil Pandelis (Greek), John Catopodis (Greek) and
Gordon Till (British). According to Mr. Baxter, the
two Greeks hold 499 shares each ; Mr. Till holds two
shares.
There are, however, compensations. While Mr. Till
has an extremely small interest in the profits, the charter
of the company states that it is to him that the
management of the vessels shall be entrusted. The
senior partners are obviously not selfish men. They
leave the blockade-running to Mr. Till.
After the firing of the Keyes and Baxter broad-
sides, the “Daily Express” early this month sent a
reporter to interview Mr. Pandelis. Mr. Pandelis
proved to be young, courteous and a keenly com-
petent businessman. The reporter discovered that
business had looked up since those distant days of
two years ago ; now there were two more companies,
the Beaconray Steamship Co. and the Turnham Ship-
ping Co., splendidly British. Each of these companies
was also on a 1000-shares basis, Mr. Till holding
exactly two shares in each, but with another director
added to the going concern —Mr. Spyros Catopodis.
According to Mr. Pandelis, the business was
started with two ships, bought for trading to the West
African coast in the ground-nut business. However,
a “Mr. J. A. Billmeir” had asked whether they could
charter a ship to the Spanish Government. Mr. Pan-
delis was able to oblige. His concern was well treated ;
pay was in advance —“They pay well,” said Mr.
Pandelis.
My trade with them increased. I treated them
honorably and always tried to deliver ordered cargoes.
Some shipowners have taken their money and then not
delivered the goods. They are not playing fair.
His company —or companies—bought other ships ;
nine in all. Four had been lost. Insurance on three
of them did not cover the loss; “the fourth was
covered for more than we paid for it; it was worth
more.” He “rechristened” the ships Thorpehall,
-haven, -ness and -bay, after the Thorpe Golf Club,
where he plays—“ Surely that is not wrong?” He
was trading in British goods, he said, and employing
British sailors: —•
Do not think British sailors dislike dangerous trading.
They are paid 200 p.c. above their ordinary wages in
Spanish waters, and they get special bonuses from the
Spanish Government. I have just had a letter from one
asking for new employment. He said: “I am not
afraid of Franco and his bombs.” That is your British
spirit.
There is nothing in any of that to the discredit
of Mr. Pandelis. He is fair and honest and above
board. It is a further feather in his cap that he added:
We don’t ask, and I am sure we do not want, this
country to go to war over us. We are prepared to run
the risks.
Loud cheers for Mr. Pandelis, and for any of
the others who are as frank and open —and indepen-
dent —about it. For Mr. Pandelis’s are not the only
companies thus trading under the British flag to
Spain. Another is controlled by Mr. Billmeir, who,
according to Mr. H. Ramsbotham (Minister of Pen-
sions), “had two ships when the civil war broke out,
and now has 23 engaged in this very risky but lucra-
tive trade.”
Mr. Billmeir has bought up all sorts of old ships to
carry it on, chartered them to the Spanish Government,
hoisted the British flag on them, and no doubt made a
lot of money.
Further testimony to the point has come from
Captain Arthur Williams, a 1914-18 British Army
officer, just back from the part of Spain controlled by
the Barcelona Government.
In the majority of cases I investigated the ships are
merely nominally British, being owned by aliens and
controlled, through the Spanish Campsa shipping
agency, by Barcelona. Some of these ships were
better fitted for the scrapheap than for sea-going,
and had obviously been patched up for the Spanish
trade in the knowledge that there would be
no serious loss if they were sunk. In a good many
cases the entire value of the ship is less than the owners
get for a couple of months’ charter. None of them has
a 100 p.c. British crew, although the captains and mates
are usually British. From the day before entering until
the day after leaving Spanish waters pay is trebled,
and there are bonuses all round, dependent on the value
of the cargo.
Two of the last ships bombed (June 27), the
Arlon and the Farnham, were respectively owned by
the Arlon Steamship Co., formed last year (directors:
Sir James German, Messrs. Henry Turner, Benjamin
Abraham, Alfred Hooker and Leon Bloch), and the
Alpha Steamship Co. (directors: Hubert B. Logan
and Ernesto Geraci).
In the interest of this sort of trade a once-great
politician demanded that Britain should bomb the
Balearics. In other words, start a world war. Sir
Archibald Sinclair, leader of Britain’s ragtag Liberals,
went one better than Mr. Lloyd George: Sir Archi-
bald demanded that a Spanish Nationalist warship
should be sunk for every merchant ship flying the
British flag that was sent to the bottom. Australian
newspapers, publishing slabs of the furious nonsense
of these and other outright war-mongers, were a
month back just as hot for “action.
The whole boiling indicates once more how ex-
tremely chary Australians and Maorilanders should
be of appeals to their patriotism on behalf of all
such rotten causes.
Jews As Immigrants.
Good Australians are growing uneasy about this
Jewish question. Doctors and other professional men
have material grounds for being uneasy, and some
State Governments have shown themselves willing
to meet them by introducing or proposing to introduce
legislation designed to protect them against an influx
such as Harley-street has experienced—according to
the “Evening Standard” of April 29, “Harley-street
is now crowded by foreign doctors. But other call-
ings are threatened, though not so imminently.
Indeed, Australia has been pressed, openly and subtly,
to take more foreign Jews than it can accommodate
or assimilate; and its Lyons Government is not
remarkable for resistance to pressure.
The central fact of the situation is familiar
enough. In Europe there are millions of Jews who
want to emigrate, because the Governments under
which they live have contrived to make things
unendurable for them, or because they fear that the
Governments or hostile racial majorities will. Other
Governments, European and American, have inter-
ested themselves in the fate of these unfortunate
people, but protest that they can do nothing them-
selves. The Evian Conference found them all willing,
the Washington Government especially, to pass the
buck to the Dominions, and although the Australian
Minister of Customs, who was present as a delegate,
expressed a certain reluctance, there are people in
this country, not without influence, who are in favor
of Australia being one of the mugs.
The directors of the Sydney “Morning Herald,”
for instance. That paper scolded the Minister of
Customs for “the negative nature” of his speech, and
testily informed his Government that “humanitarian
sympathy and economic self-interest join in striking
fashion to advance the cause of refugees from Austria
who wish to become citizens of Australia.”
Not only do fresh citizens create additional employ-
ment, but the refugees who are seeking to come here
would bring with them extremely valuable assets, in
the way of technical skill, profesional knowledge and
cultural attainments.
“The cry of help from Austria,” it said further,
“has evoked the instant sympathy of the public, and
prominent citizens have been quick to express their
feelings and offer their contributions of practical
assistance.” These prominent citizens must have been
unavoidably absent from the “intercessory service”
held in the Pitt-street Congregational Church, at which
the attendance was 800 and the collection for refugees
£25. However, “Granny’s” sentiments are shared by
philanthropists, League of Nations Union pundits and
its Professor Roberts, who writes so many articles for
the “Herald” proprietary. The professor’s Great
Thought was that Jewish girls should be drafted into
domestic service. Has any Australian ever had or
ever seen a Jewish slavey?
Australia has the greatest respect for Australian-
ised and Anglicised Jews, so much so that it never
discriminates between them and Australians of British
stock. But it has learned by long experience that the
average Jewish immigrant from Europe, even when
surrounded by Australian influences, takes time to get
into its ways, and it has every reason to fear that if
unrestricted Jewish immigration were permitted it
would mean the herding into its cities —already over-
peopled in proportion to the population of the interior
—of brooding aliens, ulcerated with hatred of the
countries that had driven them out, and grouped in
their own colonies, colonies which, as the contest for
jobs proceeded, might become foci of disorder.
Except perhaps in the United States, where New
York has become more Jewish than British-American
(a half-Jew is Mayor), Jewish emigration before the
war was sporadic. Since the war it has been emigra-
tion in mass. It was the mass movement of Polish
Jews into defeated Germany that rekindled the latent
fires of anti-Semitism in that stricken country—that,
the swinish behavior of a section of the new immi-
grants and the performances of Liebknecht, Rosa
Luxembourg, Clara Zetkin, Trotsky, Zinoviev, Radek
and the rest, performances which aroused fear as well
as hate.
There were corresponding movements into other
countries, with corresponding consequences.
In 1917 the old kingdom of Rumania had about a
million Jews. After the war, and again in 1929, and
1930, Russian and Pdlish Jews to the number of another
million trekked into Rumania, seeking the protection of
the minority clauses of the Peace Treaty ... .inundating
the universities and swamping the professions.
The witness is Vernon McKenzie, a New Yorker who
wrote Through Turbulent Years. The trouble in Pales-
tine itself is a result of an influx of Jews which the
Arabs regard as a threat to their existence in their
homelands, the peaceful enjoyment of which was
guaranteed to them as well as to the Jews—in the
terms of the Balfour Declaration, “nothing” was to be
done which might “prejudice the civil and religious
rights of existing non-Jewish communities.”
At the census of October 23, 1922, the population
of Palestine was was 757,100, there being 590,800
Moslems and 83,700 Jews. On June 30, 1937, the
population was 1,383,300, of whom 876,900 were Mos-
lems and 386,000 Jews. In Tel Aviv, now the largest
city in the country, there are 140,000 people, all Jews.
Here it was that the execution of a Jew for firing at
a motor-bus Jed to rioting which the newspapers—
always favorable to Jews—dismissed in a couple of
lines, though pictures since published in the same
newspapers show that it was a serious affair.
Last week “a party of 80 Jewish migrants from
Poland” arrived in the same Australian steamer. It
was in Poland that British Consulate windows were
stoned by Jews when John Bull refused to reprieve
the Jew who tried to shoot-up the Palestine bus. That
sort of Polish Jew is not wanted in Australia; indeed,
the gates should be closed against Communist Jews,
wherever they come from. Other countries exclude
them, notably democratic Finland; in fact, the highly-
intelligent Finns who for 20 years have, as it were, seen
all the ’isms at work on the other side of the street,
Leninism, Trotskyism and Stalinism, have outlawed
Communism altogether. There are eight parties in
the Finnish House of Representatives but no Com-
munist party nor any Communist member.
Evidently Jews can come into Australia as Ger-
mans, Austrians, Poles, Rumanians, Hungarians,
Esthonians, Yugoslavs and what not. It seems clear
that more have arrived these last two or three years
than nationality statistics suggest. Much as Aus-
tralians feel for Jews subjected to ill-treatment for
which they have given no cause —it is questionable
whether this applies to the Communist Jew—to them
Australia comes first, and they would like to be sure
that the Government is putting it first. They could
follow the Minister of Customs when he said that “as
we have no real racial problem, we are not desirous
of importing one by encouraging large-scale foreign
migration,” but not when he said “Australia has in-
cluded Austrian and German Jews on a pro rata
basis comparable with any other country.” That
may mean anything. What does it mean, anyway?


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Costly and Futile.
The Ottawa Agreement signed by Mr. Gullett/for
Australia and by Mr. Jimmy Thomas for Britain has
in certain respects embarrassed both parties. Sentence
of death has been pronounced, on it, although no exact
date for the execution has been fixed.
Britons object to the Australian interpretation
of Article 10, which was designed to give their manu-
facturers -“full opportunities of reasonable competi-
tion” in the Australian market, “on the basis of rela-
tive costs of economic and efficient production,” by
setting limits on Australian protective duties. Aus-
tralians object to the British interpretation of Article
11, by virtue of which the Australian Parliament was
expected to become a sort of phonograph record for
the Tariff Board, giving meek legislative authority to
its recommendations.
Three Australian Ministers, accompanied by a
large party of civil servants, have been in London for
months discussing the position. It was agreed in
principle that the articles over which difficulties have
arisen should go, and that specific duties should be
imposed by Australia. For the rest, both sets of
negotiators allow that Australia needs manufactures,
more population and trade agreements with foreign
countries; that Britain needs foreign trade, foreign
investments and greater agricultural production ; and
that both must remain “strongly attached to the prin-
ciple of preferential trade.”
Equal results could have been secured by an
exchange of airmail correspondence, plus a few
remarks from either end over the radio ’phone. The
dispatch of so huge a mission was a waste of public
money which has merely increased the drain on Lon-
don funds in an unfavorable year. If any further
mission is proposed there should be vigorous protests
from the overburdened taxpayer. With seven costly
offices in London there is no occasion for any Aus-
tralian politician or civil servant to go abroad at the
public expense, except in an Imperial-Conference year.
Marsden.
Samuel Marsden, the centenary of whose death is
being remembered in N. S. Wales with special services,
was Australia’s first fighting parson, a man who
believed in the wrath of God, and in himself as an
instrument for its infliction when necessary.
Born near Leeds, of Yorkshire parents, he came
to Sydney at 30 in 1794, and after Johnson, the original
chaplain, went home, was in sole charge for many
years.
His activities outside the church were many. He
was a magistrate who did not hesitate to flog severely.
He ruled the Orphan Fund for years with a rod of
iron.
He was a farmer who, in Governor King’s day,
had almost as many sheep as Macarthur, and who
was described by King as “the best practical farmer
in the colony.”
At the instance of King, Marsden toured the
farms of N. S. Wales in 1805 with Edward Wood, who
had been sent out as a wool expert, to report on the
prospects of developing the sheep industry. Marsden’s
report was that where care had been bestowed on
flocks their improvement was wonderful, and he was
all in favor of going on with the job.
When he visited England in 1807 he took some
of his wool with him, and J. and W. Thompson, of
Park Mills, Rawdon, wove it. Marsden had the first
all-Australian suit made from it, and wore the suit
when he went to see George 111. His Majesty admired
it, and asked to have a coat made for himself of
N. S. Wales fleece.
Marsden found time to make seven journeys to
Maoriland, and was a good friend to the Maoris, with
whom he had great influence.
He was a large, choleric man who feared nobody
in authority and quarrelled with many, including Mac-
quarie and Macarthur (Macarthur was his bitter
enemy). He left a rich store of descendants, mostly
with a leaning towards the land. A grandson of
Marsden was the first Australian to become an English
bishop—after holding the see of Bathurst he went to
England: to become assistant Bishop of Gloucester
and of Bristol, in turn.
Whatever his faults and his prejudices, Marsden
was one of the most useful Australians of his time.
Few did more to start the ball of Australian develop-
ment rolling. In fact, at the opening of the nineteenth
century he could have been numbered as almost the
only free civilian citizen of substance who had come
to regard Australia as a permanent home.
Very Like Those Cables.
; Regardless of votes, Mr. Curtin has come out as a
critic of commercial radio ; and assuredly criticism
is warranted.
All the Australian sentiment and culture that
commercial radio gives out could, if capable of being
solidified, be put in a wineglass and covered with a
mulberry leaf.
The things in which commercial radio are chiefly
interested are canned music, mostly American, and
horseracing. It is largely responsible for the fact that
vast multitudes of Australians of both sexes spend
their Saturday afternoons hanging round wireless sets,
waiting for and listening to descriptions of the run-
ning of fiddle-faced brutes and losing their money.
Commercial radio stations live on advertisements.
One specialises in the blatant announcements of tip-
sters. Another “features” starting-price bookmaking.
And here, there and everywhere “bargains” of every
description are offered by announcers who, it is implied,
have special and intimate knowledge of the wares
they puff. Where this is not the case—and it is
humanly impossible for it to be the case always—
such advertising is dishonest.
Newspaper groups are, of course, in the com-
mercial-radio business, and this branch of their opera-
tions is extending. One effect is that provocative stuff
that comes over the cables gets a wider circulation ;
it is repeated, with embellishments.
One newspaper-controlled station has become
notorious for the virulence of its attacks on foreign
Governments with which it would be madness for
Australia to quarrel. The attacker is not named, but
the attacks proceed from the source through which
the discovery of the Black Box in which Mussolini
concealed the details of his plan for sinking the
British Navy and the unsolicited political advice of
Eddie Cantor and Bronstein, alias Trotsky, were con-
veyed to Australia.
Another station, which feeds a chain, “dramatises”
foreign “news.” In a recent “dramatisation,” one of
the German leaders was presented as a pander for
Hitler. The Fiihrer’s amorous despotism was, it was
suggested, tempered by suicide. The name of an
unmarried English lady was coupled with his in a way
which brothers resent with boots and fathers with
horsewhips. It closed on this note:
Upwards of a hundred and fifty yers ago, a woman.
Josephine, played a vital part in the life of Napoleon.
Will anothah woman play a vital part in the life of
Hitlah?
The truth is that Josephine’s influence on
Napoleonic politics didn’t amount to a row of pins,
and that neither knew of the other’s existence even “a
hundred and fifty yers ago”—they were married on
March 9, 1796, when the bridegroom was 27. And
Hitler is really the South German counterpart of what
Australians call a wowser. But, if the commercial-
radio lies were all facts, his private life is his own
affair; and his Government and its newspapers had
the decency to recognise that the private life of Edward
VIII. was no concern of Germany’s.
That these attacks are delivered anonymously
is an especially flagrant feature of this flagrant abuse
of a Commonwealth Government license. Since
Australia’s relations with foreign countries may be
embarrassed or embittered by microphone mush, the
least the Government can do is to require prefatory
publication of the name and race of every person who
jaws from a licensed station about foreign affairs, be
he war-scare-monger, muckraker or unbiased commen-
tator —if there is any such person.
Electioneering in Maoriland.
If Maorilanders manage to find out what they’re
voting about at the general election in November it
won't be any fault of the politicians. Neither side
will state its intentions plainly.
Labor members are having a whale of a good
time recalling statements made by Nationalists before
the United and Reform parties merged. Mr. Forbes
said “God help New Zealand if it again votes for
Mr. Coates!” Much more recently, F 7 W. Doidge,
who now aspires to join the interesting pair on the
Nat. benches, wanted to “relegate both Forbes and
Coates to a long term on the hardest back benches
of the House.” What happened before Mr. Hamilton
was elected leader of the Nats, has made equally
entertaining and equally irrelevant ammunition.
Labor members keep sharpening Nat. spears with
rash overstatements; thrift’s wrong, the monetary
system’s wrong, the land should be socialised. Then
they deny everything. They claim that the press is
loaded against them, and the Nats, retort that Labor’s
making unfair use of the radio.
Feeling in M.L. is that Labor will go back with
a very much reduced majority. The country could
make a clear decision if Labor would say how far
its socialism is going, and if the Nats, would say
which of the Labor laws they’ve • roared at they’re
going to repeal.
Sheer Bureaucratic Impudence.
Sydney people have been told by one of their almighty
boards that there is a water shortage, and have been
commanded to stop using garden sprinklers and sub-
stitute kitchen rinsings or something, and take shower-
baths instead of the sit-down variety. This is bad
enough, but the president of the Water Board went
further. The gentleman said, with asperity, that “the
people are not thinking hard enough how to save
water.” —
This is a much bigger question—a question whether
a democracy is able to respond to an appeal made on a
democratic basis.
If it will not co-operate, of course it deserves to
be placed under an autocracy.
No ranker example of bureaucratic impudence has
been paraded for a long time. If water is scarce, and
that in mid-winter, it is because the Water Board has
blundered—with experience to guide it, and ample
finance and labor available, it has failed to make
provision for a proper supply. And since democracy
is entitled to efficiency on the part of its servants,
it would be an act of retributive justice to sweep this
blundering board out of existence.
It has no edifying history. In 1935 Mr. Spooner,
the Minister of Local Government, admitted that
14s. 3d. of every £ of its revenue was going in interest
and sinking-fund payments. It actually owed
£42,748,620, the Government being a creditor to the
extent of £24,638,000. The Government proposed to
wipe off £11,450,000, and to assist the board to
borrow another £15,000,000, at the rate of £3,000,000
a year, by way of “creating a great deal of employ-
ment.”
This huge borrowing-and-spending programme is
in progress. Part of the money was raised in London
—to the; just indignation of other State Governments,
particularly that of the plain-spoken Mr. Butler—
and most of the money has been lavished on sewerage
works, largely in suburbs where many householders
couldn’t really afford the expensive installations in-
sisted upon. In the process there has, of course,
been a heavy and increasing drain on the water mains,
without any corresponding activity in the water-
supply department.
Yet the board has received prolonged meteoro-
logical warnings that a great deal more water would
be needed. It records some of them in its report for
the year to June 30, 1936, the latest available.
An unusual dry spell has been experienced over the
catchment area. Since August, 1934, the recorded rain-
fall for 22 months amounted to 71.02 inches, as com-
pared with an average of 83.1 inches over the same
months for the last 20 years.
During the same period, of course, it was unusually
dry in Sydney also, and this year’s January-June rain-
fall was again much below the average. Yet the
same report blithely records that of the £3,000,000
appropriated for the 1936-37 loan-works programme
“over £2,250,000” was for sewerage.
Reference is made in the same report to “remedial
measures” on the Potts Hills reservoir—Waterloo
pressure tunnel, a job at which even Mr. Lang, for-
merly the board’s patron, sneered. Those “remedial
measures” cost £854,400. The “remedial measures”
which should be applied to the board woul*dn’t cost
a red cent.
Can They Keep Out of Gaol?
According to Judge Foster, most Victorian criminals
come from a group of suburbs in which they have no
real homes:
People may say “Flog this delinquent” or “Put that
one in gaol.” In my opinion it is we who should be
sent to gaol; we have failed to provide a proper environ-
ment for the young mind.
In 1936 F. P. Morris was in charge of Victoria’s
Children’s Courts. He reported that 1935 cases were
a numerical record and that “unsuitable homes”
constituted the most serious problem.
Even granting that many parents are slum-minded,
and that any house would become a hovel through their
occupancy, the fact remains that children living under
such shocking home conditions have a slender chance
of becoming decent citizens.
F. O. Barnett, a Melbourne accountant, who be-
came a member of the Housing Investigation and
Slum Abolition Board and is now on the new Hous-
ing Commission, began a four-year survey of youth-
ful delinquency in 1933. He found that nine “inner
areas,” or slum suburbs, had a juvenile-delinquency
incidence of nearly seven to every 10,000 residents ;
in 15 “outer areas,” or good-class residential suburbs,
the figure was just over two per 10,000. With the help
of J. Akeroyd, inspector-general of Victorian penal
establishments, he ascertained that six out of every
ten youths from the inner areas who were discharged
from the Castlemaine Reformatory prison were re-
turned to the institution within four years. From
the outer areas in the same period only four out of
every ten were recommitted.
The 1936-37 Slum Abolition Board reported:
Sordid surroundings are breeding an anti-social out-
look and an instinctive resentment at what is regarded
as inescapable. There is a tendency to regard the ugly
and the mean as a normal inheritance. Unconsciously,
youth in the slums is allowing itself to be dominated
by the belief that it must live down to environment.
And on they go to Judge Foster and his fellow-
Benchers.
It will cost Victoria much in money, time and
thoughtful effort to improve housing conditions in
the Melbourne inner areas that produce most of
Victoria’s criminals. The 1936-37 board found 3000
dwellings within a five-mile radius of the heart of the
city that were unfit, and incapable of being made fit,
for human habitation ; another 3000 needed exten-
sive repairs before they could be classed as fit for
Australians to live in.
A tangible step towards improving these condi-
tions is to be taken this week, when a Housing Com-
mission measure will come before the Assembly.
Canberra Builds a Hospital.
When an ordinary town builds a hospital it eschews
high-falutin’ and flummery. But Canberra is no ordi-
nary town; and, as a Government document explains.
Its authorities think that it should have a hospital
as nearly as ideal as posible. Not necessarily because it
is intended to be a model or garden city, but because
the Commonwealth Government is the paramount power
in the land, and whatever it does, particularly in
Canberra, should be done on proper lines, giving the
maximum of usefulness and setting an economy con-
sistent with efficiency.
So the Government “acted,” .in the manner of
Australian Governments. It turned the matter over to
an Assistant Minister. He referred it to nine politicians
who draw fees on a so-called Public Works Com-
mittee.
The Public Works Committee held a full-dress
inquiry. It visited hospitals in Melbourne and Sydney.
It served subpoenas on the chairman of the Sydney
Hospitals Commission, the chairman of directors of
busy Royal Prince Alfred and the managers of Mel-
bourne hospitals, examined and cross-examined them.
It haled before it the Director-General of Public
Health, matrons, hospital architects, officials of the
Medical Officers’ Association, officials of the Interior
Department, examining and cross-examining. It
took votes on which there were formal divisions.
The proposal which had been put before this com-
mittee was a matter of simple arithmetic. Residents
of Canberra, 90 per cent., of whom are on comfortable
salaries, suggested an edifice which would cost
£210,000. In the present hospital there is bed accom-
modation for 81 persons, plus 32 in isolation. Daily
average of patients is 60, average stay in bed 12.95
days. Last year fees from patients totalled £2697.
hospital tax yielded £7700 and the Government found
£4690.
The committee has recommended a plan which
will provide 147 beds. All this is set forth in a neatly-
bound report which cost 2s. apiece to print, topped
off with a rider headed “Savings by the Committee.”
The savings are estimated at £60,000. A common-or-
garden committee of citizens could have saved more
than that without going on extensive travels or charg-
ing fees.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“ You'll have to hurry up, Freddie, if you Want me to win that twenty-five-quid Wager.
“Uramao”: There is an O. Henry
touch about a recent happening at Hamil-
ton (M.L.). The contretemps centred
in the similarity of the N.Z. Reserve
Bank ten-bob and 50-quid notes. A
Hamilton woman cashed a cheque at a
bank, received among the change a
£5O-note, and gave it in mistake for a
10s. note to her son, who was starting
off on his honeymoon. Son handed it
to the parson who tied the knot; parson
gave it to his gardener, who bought 10s.
worth of goods from his grocer. Balanc-
ing in the evening the grocer found the
£5O-note and handed it to the police, who
with the aid of the bank traced the note’s
wanderings back to the bridegroom’s
mamma. But she had dashed off to
Auckland in pursuit of the honeymoon
couple to retrieve her loss.
sj: * * *
“P.M.”: I fancy the term “Mistress”
instead of “Mrs.” lasted much later than
Stuart days, in Scotland if not in Eng-
land (B. 6/7/’3B). My grandmother was
born in Scotland in 1830, and worked
there as a housemaid until shortly before
she came to Victoria in 1868. She always
used the term “Mistress,” and used to
say she never heard “Mrs.” used among
her employers in Scotland.
* * * *
“Dhas”: The Laura (S.A.) “Standard”
treasures a letter from C. J. Dennis con-
firming that the first of his poems to be
printed appeared in its pages. Dennis
spent some of his early days in Laura,
and the poem was a light-hearted ballad
based on the adventures of “six sturdy
sportsmen” who w|ere bushed in the
Beetaloo Hills.
Into the hills of Beetaloo
They went to slay the kangaroo,
And the sportive hare and the wallaby, too,
And the birds overhead as they flew.
And they took some beer of excellent brew,
But de’il a thing these sportsmen slew.
Dennis kept a soft spot for the town,
and sent the “Standard” an eight-verse
poem for the Back-to-Laura shivoo in
1932.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Airwomen are all right,
but I find myself jibbing at the word
“aviatrix.” Where’s the necessity for it?
Many good judges already eschew
“poetess” and “authoress,” and certainly
nobody would think of terming a skirted
exerciser of the franchise a “votress” —
or an “electrix.” Admittedly we have
“executrix” and “testatrix,” but the Law
has always been favorable to Latin, even
dog-Latin. But I never heard of a lady
doctor being designated “doctrix” or a
hello girl described as a telephone
“operatrix.”
* * * *
“T.P.”: W. M. Hughes’s war-time
safe, lately in the news, isn’t the first one
that has caused Billy a spot of bother.
Years ago, in war-time, he told the Wheat
Board members that he was once a lock-
smith himself. The umbrella trade hav-
ing slumped, he bought a job-lot of
locks and keys for a fiver, hand-printed
a placard “W. M. Hughes, Locksmith,”
and set up business in a small town. He
did well for a bit, but struck a snag
when the butcher, who cashed cheques
for all and sundry, called him in to open
the only safe in the locality—key lost.
A liberal coating of sawdust adorned the
floor; and William’s eyes glittered.
“Complicated job ; will take a half-hour
—need for concentration and high skill.”
A sieve was in the corner. Alone, Wil-
liam sieved that sawdust, and the key
soon came to light. He sandpapered it;
the butcher shouted through the key-
hole, “Shall I wire to Sydney for a lock-
smith?” “The half-hour’s not up yet,”
replied the expert. “If I fail, you’ll have
to cable to London.” Then he flung
the door wide, the crowd poured in, and
the butcher rejoiced over his brand-new
key.
* * * *
“Verri”: Mention of an inability to
distinguish between the door- and the
window-handle of a car (B. 20/7/’3B)
reminded me of the procedure of a
safety-minded motorist I drove with re-
cently. “Take a look,” said he to his
two passengers, “at these handles. Now
try them. Right! If anything happens,
such as a fire or an accident, and you
want to get out in a hurry, you’ll know
how.” When I recalled the experience
of a woman who was in a car that
plunged into a river and her agonised
struggle with a door-handle she didn’t
understand, I realised the value of his
little foreword.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Marie, the Rumanian Queen-
Mother, is dead, at 62. She was the most
beautiful royalty of her time, and, in a
way, the most original. Visiting the
U.S.A. after the war to beat up funds
for family and country, both being broke,
she wrote newspaper articles, signed
toothpaste and make-up ads., and was
with difficulty restrained from figuring in
Hollywood films. On that trip she took
a queer fancy to the American reporter
whom other potentates hate ; and when
one Vernon McKenzie, who wrote the
very interesting Through Turbulent Years,
visited her just a year ago at “her charm-
ing little castle at Bran, about 100 miles
from Bucharest,” she was startlingly
frank about the long illness which finally
carried her off.
It started with a hfemorrhage, and now
has narrowed down to phlebitis and
anaemia. Thank God it isn’t cancer!
Then she repeated a yarn about Stalin
told to her by Dr. Eppinger, a Viennese
specialist in “diseases of the kidney,”
who had been summoned to Moscow to.
attend a sick dictator-of-the-proletariat:
I saw, and diagnosed for liver trouble, 16
Russians. All were dressed plainly, virtu-
ally alike ; all were approximately Stalin’s
age and not far from his build. Some-
where in that group was Stalin. A tunic
dropped to the floor with a clatter; in the
pockets there must have been two revolvers.
I turned in diagnoses for all and flew back
to Vienna.
“A queer Slav or Oriental idea, wasn’t
it?” Queen Marie commented.
Marie was, of course, the daughter of the
gentleman whom the Australians of the
’sixties knew as the Duke of Edinburgh
and who was nearly killed in this coun-
try (1) by kindness and (2) by the bullet
of a crazy fellow who shot him at a
Clontarf (Sydney) picnic.
* * * *
“T.”: One unforgotten feature of the
Great Slump has corpe in with what
“S. M. Herald” calls “the recession”—
the cronk florin. I collected two in one
night at a much-frequented change win-
dow ; and I was stone-sober, the day
being Sunday and the place Sydney. Both
are imitations of the Canberra two-shil-
ling piece minted in 1936, and except
that they are smoother and more tinselly
are dashed good imitations. I always
think our rude forefathers were right in
classing coining among the grave crimes.
h strikes at the State where the State is
vulnerable and takes in those who need
its protection most —the very poor. I
don’t sav it should be a hanging matter,
but it should mean ten years’ penal servi-
tude at the least. Yet a Sydney Judge
gave a coiner 18 months.
* * *
“S.”: Despite Scorfield’s exquisite pic-
turing in B. 20/7/’3B of Musso. flying
over a nasty-looking row of fixed
bayonets, I don’t believe that those
athletic tests for Fascist leaders were
what the cables made them out to be.
The Duce needs brainy associates, and
with the little epileptic Napoleon, the
diminutive Hitler and the cripple Goeb-
bels in his mind he simply couldn t be
mug enough to demand brawn with his
party leaders’ grey-matter. I’ll betta da
hundred quid to da pip of an orange
that it was just the semi-comic inaugura-
tion of a fitness campaign, much as if
Billy Hughes should institute a stork
derby by bussing a few infants. Musso.’s
cobbers would no more be dismissed for
failing to leap like kangaroos than Billy
would lose, his job for not actually com-
peting in the derby.
* * * *
“Thinblood”: Tenor Tauber’s account
of his experiences on a train-journey
from Albury to Canberra, throughout
which he was exposed to icy draughts,
may evoke smiles from the callous-
minded, but it draws attention to a long-
standing peculiarity of railway-carriage
construction in N. S. Wales. The de-
signers of these vehicles seem to have
been obsessed with a fear lest passengers
should suffocate, wherefore all windows
have been made so that after vibration
has done its. work for a little while they
work up, and open, of their own accord.
Also, windows are so made that they
can (and often do) jamb open, but can
never jamb shut. Carriages are made
with huge openings in the sides through
which gales rage diagonally. And as if
this were not enough provision for ven-
tilation at least 50 p.c. of train-travel-
lers in the State throw open a train win-
dow automatically as soon as they take
a seat, be it raining, snowing or hailing.
# * * *
* “Captain Pintle”: Alone among the
few remaining deep-water sailing-ships,
the beautiful Grace Harwar has the repu-
tation of a consistent killer. At her
launch in 1889 she jambed a caulker’s
leg and he died of it. On her maiden
voyage, London to Valparaiso, a spar
carried away and killed the bos’n. On
almost every voyage since then she has
killed her man. She smashed two other
ships during a cyclonic blow in Coquimbo
tiers, and the mate was fatally injured
soon after in an attempt to salve an
anchor and cable. Off Falmouth she
nearly sank an Italian steamer. Sold to
Russians in 1909, she rammed another
Russian craft off Mobile and killed the
usual seaman. Bought by G. Ericksen
after the war, and under the Finnish
flag, she slew her first Australian sailor
off Cape Horn in 1935. Her last year’s
victim was washed overboard on the run
from S.A. to Falmouth for orders.
* * * *
“Xo”: A crowd collected the other
night round a pram in Melbourne’s
Chapel-street, but the leading character
in the comedy that attracted it didn’t
care —he just kept on clawing. He was
the sturdy young pram passenger, and
he had been parked beside one of those
well-developed but not so well covered
busts that adorn the display-windows of
women’s beauty parlors. His rage when
the plate-glass kept his reaching hands
away from that model made the on-
lookers chuckle.
* * * *
“Caveman”: “Captain Pintle” (B.
13/7/’3B) says the Cutty Sark was at her
best in strong steady winds, and that the
frequent light airs of the China Coast
never suited her. Not so. The Cutty
Sark could make good headway in the
lightest breeze, though it is quite true
that Captain Woodget was a “hard
driver,” rushing the ship through heavy
seas, taking every wave aboard. There
was nothing easy about her. * Her masts
were 150 ft. high, her sail-spread was ter-
rific, and in heavy weather everything
on board was sea-soaked except the
cargo. On the great tea-race with the
Thermopylae the crew never saw a hot
meal after the first 14 days. But what
made the ship a record-breaking clipper
was her yacht-like faculty for getting
knottage out of any sort of a breeze.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Dispersing the “Red Hill”
settlement in Paddington (Sydney) in the
’nineties gave a lot more trouble than
the shifting of the Happy Valley settlers
has given. In the aftermath of suffering
that followed the big maritime strike and
the banking crisis in 1893, the No Rent
League was formed; some of the
leaguers simply declined to pay rent in
the houses they occupied, but the Moses
of the movement led quite a host to settle
at Red Hill. Most of the humpies erected
there had an outer wall of kerosene-tins
(they only cost tuppence each then) ham-
mered out. Prosperity started to return,
and landlords who had quite decent
houses begging for tenants at 10s. and
12s. p.w. urged the Paddington Council
to 'move-on the No Renters; but it took
a decade to shift them. The announce-
ment that the old rifle range, the butts
of which had Red Hill for a background,
was to be reopened for target practice
had something to do with the final
exodus.
CELEBRATION IN SPAIN.
“Both sides in Spain held celebrations to com-
memorate the beginning of the third year of the
civil war.”
There are times to be festive and glad and go
gay,
“Make whoopee,” as Roosevelt’s countrymen
say,
To vociferate “Vive La!” or bellow “Hooray!”
But it taxes the average brain
Why two years of war, with a third on the way,
Should furnish both sides with a red-letter day
Their feelings in jubilant mood to display,
Which is what they are doing in Spain.
We featured it once as a land where the stars
Smiled down upon gallants with tinkling guitars
Serenading shy girls behind balcony bars,
A pleasant and placid domain,
With its wine in the wood and its oil in the jars.
Now it’s red with the carnage and seared with
the scars
That litter the track of Bellona and Mars
In stricken and suffering Spain.
How queer sounds a benison —better a ban
On the date when the hideous struggle began—
Yet they give it a greeting, each staunch par-
tisan,
The day they were sundered in twain,
Ranged province ’gainst province and clan
against clan,
Till it utterly baffles the average man
To venture a guess at what Destiny can
(When the riot of bloodshed has finished its
span)
Have next in his wallet for Spain.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Jamwood”: According to one
account, the French were “grieved at
the excessive precautions taken to pro-
tect the King and Queen,” having been
anxious to overwhelm their Majesties
with affection. The arrangements, it
seems, were in the hands of Sarraut, the
Minister of the Interior, who held the
same office when Alexander, of Yugo-
slavia, and Barthou were assassinated at
Marseilles ; and on this occasion he is
alleged to have overdone them. I am
very glad he did when I recall that
moving-picture of the crude butchery
at Marseilles, when the “protection” of
the hapless King was left to distant
cavalrymen armed with swords this
in the city which contains a larger pro-
portion of the scum of the earth than
any other! Shall I ever forget that
scene in which an excited Gaul, ob-
viously no longer young, leaned from
the steed on which he had jogged up
to the King’s carriage to strike at an
assassin with his pig-sticker? Apropos,
I notice that George and his consort
dined at the British Embassy off. gold
plate “given by Napoleon to his sister
Pauline,” the loveliest and friskiest lady
of her time. I trust that none of our
anti-Italian papers will see in this in-
cident a sinister intrusion of Fascism.
The Bonapartes were Italian. There
wasn’t a drop of French blood in their
veins.
* * * *
“Exdig”: A description of train-
bombing in China published in the
“S. M. Herald” mentions that when the
air-raid signal is given the passengers in
“Can y' cash a cheque?”
trains m the war zone, which mostly
travel at night, get out and bolt for the
fields, 100 yards away. That suggests that
the bombing practice of the Japs is much
better than was that of the Germans in
Trance. The A.I.F. Ist Divvy, when it
was rushed back from Amiens to the
north (we detrained at Hondeghan), was
well bombed on the way up, the long
procession of trains being brought to a
standstill with the fires drawn so that
there would be no glow or sparks to help
the target, whilst
what seemed to be a
mosquito-swarm of
'planes buzzed over-
head and laid their
eggs. The Germans
probably had some
information (Amiens
was said to be full of
spies) of the move-
ment, for there seemed
to be three relays of
’planes ; the hostility
died out and worked
up again twice. Yet
the Ist Divvy’s casual-
ties in that stunt were
only three men
wounded, although
bombs dropped near
enough to shake the
cars, and many of
these were scarred on
the outside. Had we
got out and made a
break for the fields
there probably would
have been a much
larger toll.
“S.T.S.”: No doubt
the other States were
mostly surprised (B.
29/6/’3B) when men
with German names
did not seek to dis-
guise their origin in
war-time. Not so in
S.A. The State is
full of descendants of
the fine old settlers
of 90 years ago.
And, even by 1914, there was no doubt
of their being already good Australians.
Our war memorials, especially in the
country towns, are full of Schmidts and
Mullers who died in proof of it.
* * * * *
“Billy See”: Not only are men
better looking facially than women
(B. 29/6/’3B), but they have in the
aggregate much better figures. When
years ago I first sighted the spinifex
blacks around Coolgardie (W.A.), I
thought the females absolutely the last
word in misshapen scrawniness. The
bucks easily averaged 100 p.c. better.
The superiority of the white female, seen
in those days only in her glad rags, re-
ceived a definite fillip. Years later I
struck Cottesloe; mixed bathing had
then just arrived, and with it, for me,
disillusionment. Divested of her skirts,
the white female didn’t average much
nearer to the Venus standard than the
black. Certainly she was better-nourished
and ran more to leg, but despite these
advantages she was just as deficient in
real shapeliness. As among the abos,
the white men average a full 100 p.c.
better. On any bathing beach half a
dozen Apollos can easily be picked out,
but the eyes will rove over many female
forms before lighting on a Venus.
"I hope you remembered to make your will , too, sir!”
“S.T.S.”: Archery “has at last reached
Australia” (B. 26/5/’3B). About time,
rather, for it to stage a come-back. In
Adelaide it was the steady pursuit of
a group of society folk in an age when
rival pastimes were scarce. The 50-year-
ago column of the dailies still occasion-
ally records its prize-winnings, mostly,
though not entirely, feminine. ‘ That is, it
survived the competition of croquet, and
faded out only when lawn tennis became
possible for both sexes.
* * * *
“Toto”: The new spire of St. Patrick’s
Cathedral, Melbourne, has been receiving
the attention of some of that fair city’s
less devout citizens. The semi-precious
stones incorporated in the cross sur-
mounting the structure were the attrac-
tion. Some of the stones disappeared
soon after the cross was manoeuvred into
position. The theft meant climbing
360 ft. of scaffolding at night. The
cathedral authorities are taking no
chances with the platinum-tipped light-
ning conductor. It is to be fitted after
the scaffolding has been removed.
* * * *
“Kohi”: Clive Shields, the medico
who represents Castlemaine-Kyneton in
the Vic. Assembly, tells a story about
an elderly woman who complained of
severe earache and firmly believed it was
caused by some sort of worm. The doc.
said he “produced” an ordinary earth-
worm from her ear
after a preliminary
visit to the garden,
and thereupon she
promptly recovered.
An old M.L. doctor
practising in the
days before tele-
phones were com-
monplace had a simi-
lar story. He would
leave isolated
patients one of his
pigeons. “If there’s
no improvement to-
morrow, clip a mes-
sage on like this and
let the bird go” was
his usual advice. In-
variably he illus-
trated his meaning
by fixing the clip to
his forefinger. One
sick woman watched
his demonstration
attentively, and the
bird reached his
house a few days later without any clip
on its leg. When he again visited the farm
the patient was up-and-doing, very pleased
with doctor’s mysterious cure which she
was still wearing on her forefinger. “I
felt better as soon as I put it on,” she
assured him, “but that pigeon wouldn’t
touch the pills you left.”
* * * *
“Jachris”: Don’t think I’m com-
plainin’, but you blokes on The Bully
oughta use a bit more commonsense
now’n’ again. Not that it’s all your fault,
but if you’re goin’ t’ sell your paper to
anybody—well, you’ve got t’ think a bit
uv the coves that’s goin’ t’ read it. An’
some blokes can’t restrain ’emselves.
It’s that joke you ’ad the other day erbout
the feller lyin’ blotto on the railway line
an’ reckernin’ the noise ’e could ’ear was
the rumblin’ uv ’is stummick. I showed
it to the young chap in the bed next t’
me, an’ ’e nearly laughed ’is ’ead off.
That wasn’t wot worried the sister,
though. She said if ’e wasn’t careful ’e’d
bust the stitches in ’is appendix opera-
tion, an’ some uv the others in the
ward ’d be doin’ the same laughin’ at
7m. She took the blasted thing with
’er, an’ says we can’t ’ave it ’ere any
more. I reckon you oughta tone it down
a bit fer a few weeks, an’ send ’er a
copy until she gets useta the idea.
=i= * * *
“Pardon Me”: Strictly speaking there
is no Earl of Egmont (B. 20/ 7/’3B), for
since the death of the ninth Earl (1929)
the succession, though claimed by two
Canadian members of the Perceval family
(father and son), has not been established
(vide current editions of both “Debrett”
and “Burke”). Also, no son of any
Egmont earl is by right a baronet. When
a baronetcy was originally conferred on
John Perceval in 1661 there was allowed
to his eldest son the privilege of claim-
ing the order of knighthood and having
the rank and precedence of baronet as
soon as he attained his majority—but only
after notice was given as provided. As
a matter of fact, the eldest sons or heirs-
apparent of all baronets whose patents
are dated prior to December, 1827, have
the privilege of demanding knighthood
upon attaining their majority.
* * :js
“Ek Dum”: A few weeks ago a couple
of young Queenslanders began appealing
for pen-friends on the skins of bananas.
While the mail was still flowing .north-
wards, a veg. grower at Wynyard (Tas.)
broadcast an appeal for a lady love
tucked into the interior of his market
carrots. So far there have been 70 re-
sponses, in 20 of which were pictures of
prospective brides. The originator of
the idea is responding by sending out
70 photographs of himself —in envelopes,
not carrots. It seems to me that if he
works his head and sells the idea to the
G.P.O. there should be enough fortune
waiting for him to allow him to emigrate
to Nigeria, where they will let him marry
all the brides who offer. All that needs
to be done to make the scheme a money-
spinner is to have a short Commonwealth
Act passed authorising the G.P.O. to
have a fiver inserted in one carrot,
potato, onion, tomato or other vegetable
in every half-million sold, with a pro-
posal from a rich market-gardener writ-
ten on the back. Sales of veg. would
go up so much that all market-gardeners
would qualify. The rush to get into
the trade would be so great that all
vacant land would be occupied. And
post-office revenue would climb so that
all taxation could be abolished.
IMPERSONAL APPEARANCE.
“Very few clergymen are a success over the
radio”— Stwli.u admission.
It’s passing strange but true, you know,
How few divines a punch can throw
Per medium of the radio.
It's not that what they have to tell
Regarding either heaven or hell
Is any less acceptable
When by the fire o’ nights you lurk
Than in the abbey or the kirk
Where they essay their first-hand work.
But, when across the air is spun
Their talk, the trouble is that none
Can see the man behind the gun.
1 hey cannot cast upon the screen
1 he Bishop in his robes serene
Or, pulpit-throned, the zealous Dean.
Ask what would actors be —or cops—
Without their background and their “props.,”
And most of them will tell you—flops!
And sermons, too, it would appear,
The most impressive one could hear,
Fall flat without the atmosphere,
The setting fit that appertains
To saintly men and sacred fanes,
To surpliced choirs and organ-strains:
•
A theory which may serve to show
Why clerical discourses go
So lamely on the radio. "
N.S.aV.
T. THE R.


10 for 9°
20 for 1/6
CRAVENA
# #
ate so
SORE
T H R
M A
E SPECIALLY TO PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
Addressing the Constitutional Clubbers
at Brisbane, Lyons said: “Mr. Chamber-
lain is doing wonderful work for world
peace”; and, for his own part, he
didn’t “apologise” for supporting the
Chamberlain policy. Plain people never
expected him to apologise. Newspaper
potentates may be different. One has
been scolding the Government ever since
the P.M. showed himself reluctant to
let the crusaders drag it into war, and
another has been distinctly cold.
Reporting the latest trade-delegation
fiasco, an Associated Press man notes
that “the large array of officials who
journeyed 12,000 miles to deal with
schedules were excluded from the de-
liberations” of the three Ministers and
their British opposite numbers, and “did
not contribute a syllable” to the White
Paper. Still, the gentlemen will have had
a grand holiday with everything paid.
They had lots of time to go to the
theatres and the Derby, and Wimbledon
and the Test match at Lord’s.
Wheat is still round 3s. 6d. a bushel
at siding or silo, and Premier Butler,
Nock, M.H.R., and others are busy with
plans for getting the growers more. They
will have to be seriously considered. Aus-
tralia cannot reasonably expect those who
produce its principal article of food and
one of its principal export commodities
to do it for less than a fair trade-union
wage.
Last week the sacrifices of the soldiers
who laid down their lives defending Aus-
tralia in France were commemorated in
moving ceremonies at Villers-Bret. Dur-
ing the same week a pack of Reds and
Pinks who profess to speak for the work-
ingmen of Australia “refused,” as they
put it, “to co-operate in a spurious de-
fence policy,” and stridently demanded
the familiar Moscow programme, with
hastily-thought-of additions—“purging of
pro-Fascists from the armed forces” ; in-
tervention in Spain, China, Czecho-
slovakia and God knows where else ; col-
lective security, with Litvinoff to call the
tune, and rejection of Chamberlain.
The Sydney part of the push that wants
to sprag the wheels of national defence
claims to represent “nearly half the in-
dustrial strength of Australia.” It won
two (2) seats at the N.S.W. Assembly
elections, and it couldn’t win one any-
where on its anti-Austrailan Moscow
programme.
Lamb, the Agrarian M.L.A. for Lowan
(Vic.), whose weakness is excess of zeal,
sorely embarrassed his minority Govern-
ment by suggesting redistribution of seats
—3O metropolitan and 30 country mem-
bers. Apparently realising that he had
blundered, he added that he wouldn’t
support redistribution unless it came from
his own party. “You’re quite safe,”
said his leader testily.
Students of “Hansard” among Vic-
torian Labor supporters must have felt
sore when they read the arguments of
Cain and Cremean for the election of
Sheehan as a stop-gap Senator, the main
one being that their party’s No. 1 candi-
date got 482,115 votes at the general
election and the C.P.’s No. 1 only 75,775.
The students couldn’t have helped re-
flecting that the representatives of the
482,115 are keeping the representatives
of the 75,775 in office.
“Two policewomen,” it is reported,
“assisted at the wedding of a girl of 17
and a Chinese of 22 at Surry Hills, Syd-
ney,” and even “bought the ring.” In
parts of the U.S.A. the presence of police
at such a wedding would be to prevent
violation of the anti-miscegenation law.
Is this kind of thing an effect of the glori-
fication of Chinese that goes on in oiir
Glorious Press?
Bishop Burgmann, who admires Red
Russians so much, considers Australians
an uneducated lot, and the Sydney
“D.T.” agrees that education is our cry-
ing need. A little elementary instruction
is certainly needed in one quarter. The
“D.T.” persists in maundering about
what it refers to as “the central point of
British foreign policy for more than a
century —to safeguard the Low Coun-
tries, France, Belgium and Holland,
against invasion.” At the risk of appear-
ing tedious, The Bulletin repeats that
the Low Countries are Belgium, Holland
and Luxemburg. And even the “D.T.”
should know that France was invaded and
defeated by Germany in 1870 and that J.
Bull then —very properly—minded his
own business.
When N.S.W. Labor gets rid of Lang
the “Cronk-News” should engage him
“The collapse of the case for another Lang commission—this time in the affair of Mr.
Stevens’s ‘lndependent’ opponent, whose deposit was put up by the secretary of the Lang
organisation—has shaken the faith of hitherto docile followers. Deputy-leader Baddeley has
since announced that if the northern miners leave Mr. Lang he will leave with them.”
THE LAST OF THE MULLIGANS GOES INTO ACTION.
to write foreign news. He has all the
qualifications. One example:
The Federal seat of Barton was won by
the Premier’s party because of the mys-
terious disappearance of Mr. McDonald,
the Labor member. He disappeared and
has never been seen since.
As a “Cronk-News” correspondent Lang
could learn on unimpeachable authority
that Nazis or Fascists knocked Mc-
Donald on the head. The truth is that
the man disappeared after he was de-
feated by T. J. Ley in 1925.
Clever fools like Cripps and Churchill
still have the face to suggest that the
U.S.A. is certain to come into a crusad-
ing war, and their dangerous nonsense
is reprinted here. The “Ladies Home
Journal” has been taking the views of
American women fairly representative
of its millions of readers. Only 1.5 per
cent, of the ladies said they would have
voted for war over the sinking of the
Panay, and all but 12 p.c. declared
against participation in any overseas
war. Incidentally, 62 p.c. pronounced
England the country they held in the
highest esteem. A truly remarkable
revulsion of feeling since Cleveland’s
day, especially as only 6 p.c. gave
Canada pride of place in their fluttering
hearts.
Australians would like to hear more
than newspapers permit them to know
about the influx of foreign Jews. In the
space of a day or so 70 Polish Jews
arrived at Adelaide, and 49 German and
Austrian Jews, bound for Australia via
North America, called at Suva. A hun-
j J , . ’ oti™„
dred and nineteen seems a larg -
ance for a day or so. Communist
organisation in Palestine is another
matter on which enlightenment is sought.
It would be a good subject for one of
those slashing articles that appear in
Sydney’s “Sunday Sun.”
,
Maoriland’s Health Department has
done Labor a good turn by reporting
that the birthrate for the year to March
31 (17.29 per 1000) was the highest since
ns t Tt will enable the nartv to claim
V 3l - R Will enable tne party lO Ciaim
that the thing IS an effect of what it calls
its redistribution of the national income,
and it will be useless for the other side
to point out that the deathrate (9.08 per
1000) was the highest since 1920.
In a criticism of transport strangula-
tion as practised in Victoria, in the in-
terests of Government railways that never
pay, Knox, the member for Upper Yarra,
recalled that the Transport Regulation
Act was introduced by Menzies —
That brilliant legal who flashed
through this Chamber and 'reached the
highest sphere of political life, leaving be-
hind him a trail of sparks.
Knox aspires to be a spark-arrester, but
acknowledges that he has had little luck.
Since the early depression days unem-
ployed have been camped on a patch of
Sydney coastal sand sardonically called
“Happy Valley.” It is Crown land, leased
to, but never used nor ever likely to be
used by, the N.S.W. Golf Club. The
unemployed were ordered to quit.
Eviction notices expired on a bleak day
in the depth of a hard winter, but
were not enforced. Just as well for the
golfers, since the unemployed and their
sympathisers were preparing for forcible
resistance. If it had come to that 90 per
cent, of N.S.W. people would have taken
their part, and no Government would
have ever again dared to lease Crown
land to a golf club.
As a U.A.P. paper puts it:
A further step towards the attainment
of the aim of carrying first-class mail by
air over the main routes of communica-
tion will be taken on August 1, when letters
will be carried for sd. a half-ounce from
all parts of the Commonwealth to practi-
cally all portions of the British Empire.
Presumably mugs are expected to regard
this as a wonderful U.A.P. achievement.
On June 28 Maoriland Labor was put-
ting these words into the Governor-
General’s mouth:
Arrangements have been completed for
the Dominion to participate, as from next
month, in the Empire airmail service, and
all letters posted in the Dominion for
Empire countries served by the Australia-
England and England-South Africa ser-
vices will accordingly be conveyed by air
froip Australia at the uniform rate of Hd.
a half-ounce.
And letters from Maoriland to all foreign
countries, except Egypt, will be carried
for 2^d.
The League of Nations Union, which
is so liberal with advice and invective,
staged “a lunch-hour service of interces-
sion for Jewish and other persecuted
peoples” at Sydney’s Pitt-street Congre-
gational Church.
About 800 persons, including repre-
sentatives of the various churches, attended.
The Assistant Minister, Mr. Richardson,
represented the Premier.
Sir Francis Anderson said “We must
ever aim upwards.”
Dr. Benzoin Shein, of Jerusalem, said
“The Jewish people look to the British race
and the League of Nations for help.”
The collection realised £2s—sevenpence-
halfpenny a head.
One of those Miners’ Federation bosses
who blithely recall that they lost £BOO,OOO
in their last strike boasts that “credits
amounting to £250,000 are now in sight
for the next.” For less than £250,000 the
Orrs and Hoares and Nelsons could buy-
huge parcels of shares in many N.S.W.
mines, and get a controlling interest in
some. There are 14 coalmining cos. listed
on the N.S.W. Stock Exchange, and scrip
in only one is quoted above par.
From the N.S.W. Railway Depart-
ment: —
Just off the press, 10 illustrated folders
descriptive of the tourist areas.
They must have been sent when Herr
Tauber was just off the train. Said
Herr Tauber, when his feelings per-
mitted him to speak:
Never shall I forget that awful journey
from Albury to Canberra! My hands
froze. I could not the door close be-
cause it had schlits in it, through vhich
the vind vhistled. And over my head was a
fan. And —ach! —my secretary ill ever since
has been. You see him there schtanding,
but he was nearly dead on his feet with
influenza. I shall by train not travel again
vhile I am in Australia.
The Bulletin acknowledges that the
folders are very pretty.
On the score of a daily-paper report
attributing to him the statement that
volunteers for the militia are entitled to
equal preference with returned soldiers,
Thorby was acidly criticised at the Vic-
torian Diggers’ conference. “Misre-
ported” was the Minister’s reply. All he
had meant was that “if there were two
applicants for a Defence Department
position, a militiaman and a man with no
war record or association with defence,
he would give preference to the militia-
man.” But the matter at issue is one in
which a young fellow was given a Gov-
ernment job which a Digger could do;
and the argument may be transferred tc
Parliament.


THAT FELLOW-FEELING.


holiday
; 10 DAYS £lOlO-0
All-inclusive 10-day cost includes
first-class meals and accommoda-
tion, and full line-up of attractions
including ball, theatre, matinee, day
and evening motor tours, dinners,
shopping excursions, sport outings,
etc. Additional motor tours if de-
sired from Sydney and Adelaide.
Snip this advertisement and forward
immediately for free Winter Holiday
Booklet, adding name and address,
to the I N,
VICTORIA
PALACE
215 LIT. COLLINS ST.
(Next Town Hall) MELBOURNE
I’*’!!
*<- YJd Ca
Jn.
U
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WHERE ARE WE HEADING?
THE TIN POSITION
SHARES WORTH CONSIDERATION
WHAT’S HAPPENING IN MINING
July Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
hand'
PLAITED]
KANGAROO
SKIN BELT
Jilh new
rinfrfastener
PRICE- 3!^©l
mm mmuM
„ ul Queen St. Brisbane
2
PERSONAL ITEMS
Just-retired James Edward Barrett, ad-
ministrative head of Repat. in N. S.
Wales for the last 15 years, prob-
ably had more dealings with returned
Diggers than any man in Australia.
He has been getting jobs and pen-
sions for them and looking after
orphans for 20 years, for he opened the
first Repat. office in Adelaide. Born in
S.A. 64 years ago, Barrett’s soldiering
days date from 1900, when he joined the
S.A. Mounted Rifles, and soon had a
commission. He joined up with the
A.I.F. in August, 1914, with rank of
major, saw service in Egypt and on
Gallipoli, and came out a lieut.-col. in
1915, when a bout of typhoid invalided
him home. Home service occupied him
till the end of the war, since which he
has at various times directed Repat. acti-
vities in S.A., Vic. and N. S. Wales.
Repatriation Commissioners all over
the Commonwealth are playing “general
post” on the retirement of J. E. Bar-
rett in Sydney. Cyril Smith, from Mel-
bourne, replaces him, and Keays, of the
same office, takes a step up into Smith’s
place. Wilkinson, of Brisbane, moves
to Melbourne, and so Laussen, of
Adelaide, goes north to Queensland, and
G. H. James, of Hobart, crosses to S.A.
Guinea Airways’ contract to pick up
incoming airmails for four States at Dar-
win and distribute them from Adelaide
is a tribute to the long vision of C. V. T.
Wells, G.A.’s chairman. He brought
surplus plant from New Guinea less than
two years ago, and inaugurated a weekly
service over the almost freightless and
passengerless country between Adelaide
and Darwin, having studied the impli-
cations of the new flying-boat service.
He knew that the southern and western
States would not be happy with a mail
and passenger service via Sydney and
Townsville when a service via Adelaide
and Darwin would save nearly two days.
And so it proved.
Vic.’s eight associated grammar schools
had no difficulty in finding a capable
Australian for the job of joint music
director A. Wright Denniss, now
charged with cultivating musical appre-
ciation in more than 1200 Melbourne
boys. Toowoomba-born, he was choir-
A. WRIGHT DENNISS.
pianist to the grammar school there while
still a pupil; later he studied under
Brisbane’s city organist. Armidale
(N.S.W.) and Sydney can testify to his
worth. There’s music in the family,
his father being a keen amateur con-
ductor and his mother sister to the
Dublin conductor, Albert Bullock.
Richard Tauber, brought to Australia
by A.8.C., has, like Lawrence Tibbett,
the recommendation of film appear-
ances as well as gramophone records
in his favor. The tenor, who was born
in Linz, Austria, 45 years ago, was the
son of a theatre manager. Richard was
RICHARD TAUBER.
dedicated to a musical career from the
start, his bent being towards conducting.
He first waved a baton over an orchestra
at 18. But his voice developed, and at
22 he was making a name for himself in
light opera. London and New York first
saw him seven years ago. He has played
dozens of roles in opera bouffe and grand
opera, but is most widely known as the
Frahz Schubert of “Lilac Time.” Has
composed an opera, symphonic music
and several lieder. Hobby, cinemato-
graphy ; pet aversion, cold railway car-
riages.
Best known of the older generation of
music-teachers in Sydney was Samuel
Chudleigh, dead at 80. For nearly half
a century he taught pianoforte and violin
in one of Paling’s studios, and for as
many years he was organising secretary
for the London College of Music. He
was a member of the old Amateur
Orchestral Society, and his memories of
Sydney Phil, went back to Kowalski and
Hazon.
A man who made his mark on Syd-
ney’s skyline was Frederick James
Thorby, who died at 81 on Sunday. Born
in Essex, he learned the building trade
there, and then came to Australia, settling
in Sydney. He erected many of the city’s
pioneer tall buildings, and a job he par-
ticularly prided himself on was the pala-
tial staircase in Hoffnung’s Pitt-street
place. Defence Minister Thorby is a son.
Rome has given Queensland two more
Australian-born bishops. To the see
of Townsville, rendered vacant by the
translation of Bishop McGuire to Goul-
burn (N.S.W.), goes Father Hugh E.
Ryan, D.D., who has a fine record as
an administrator, and who lately has
been parish priest of Mooroopna (Vic.).
To Toowoomba, whose former Bishop,
Dr. Byrne, died last February, goes Dr.
Basil Roper, lately parish priest of
Warracknabeal (Vic.); he is something
of an authority on social questions. Both
the new prelates were born in Australia
in 1888, and both were trained for the
priesthood at Manly Seminary. Dr.
Ryan also studied in Rome.
Melbourne University’s new professor
of anatomy is Sydney Sunderland, son
of Harry Sunderland, secretary of the
Queensland Rugby League. Sunderland,
sen., started his secondary education as
an office-boy on the old Brisbane “Daily
Mail,” which graduated him in the art
of dodging the office copy of Pugh s
Almanac and doing four things at once.
Young Sunderland matriculated from
Brisbane High School in 1929 with an
open scholarship to Queens-
land University, but as there
was no medical school he
moved to Melbourne Uni.,
where he took first place in
the final list for bachelors’
degrees, with the Keith Levi
and Jamieson prizes in medi-
cine, the Fulton prize in ob-
stetrics. Starting with a job
as senior anatomy lecturer in
Melbourne, he went last year
to Oxford as a demonstrator
and research worker, and will
complete the work he is on
there now before returning
at 27 to take up his £l7OO-
--year job.
New Australian g.m. of
Prudential Assurance, G: J.
M. Best, is an old servant of
the co., which he joined 28
years ago in London as a
junior clerk. He studied
accountancy, and after doing
his bit in the 1914-18 dis-
turbance became an F.C.1.1.
The Chartered Insurance In-
stitute of London thought so
highly of his qualifications
that he was promptly ap-
pointed a tutor for C. 1.1.
exams., and the London
County Council made him
an official lecturer. In 1928 he was
promoted to principal clerk in the chief
office; in 1930 came to Australia as
assistant-manager, and assisted now-dead
C. F. Warren to inaugurate and develop
Australasian branches.
H. P. Ogilvie, sec. of the Melbourne
Citizens’ Rights Defence League, which
Premier Dunstan recently described to
the Leg. Assembly as a “mysterious
body,” isn’t mysterious. He’s been a
Collins-street accountant for about 25
years. His warehouseman father went
from Melbourne to Perth in time for
H.P. to become a foundation pupil at
Westralia’s Scotch College, but it wasn’t
long before the family was back in Vic.
H.P. now specialises on the secretarial
and company end of his profession, has
been sec. to the Vic. Meat Exporters’
Association since 1914, and is connected
with five other meat concerns. For seven
years he’s been Consul in Vic. for
Uruguay, but doesn’t speak or write
Spanish ; a secretary does the translating.
Though he’s no relation to the Tas.
Ogilvies, he’s interested in politics, hav-
ing been political sec. to Robert Best,
George Swinbourne and William Mc-
Pherson. Quite a few of the rising gen-
eration know him as a committeeman
of the Peninsula Country Golf Club,
down Frankston way.
The scalpel and the secateurs added to
their long list of notable associations
when Vic.’s National Rose Society elec-
ted Dr. Alfred Strickland Thomas to
•the presidential chair. The youngest man
ever to hold this position, he has estab-
lished himself as Victoria’s outstanding
amateur rose exhibitor of recent years
despite the ties of a large suburban prac-
tice. He follows such doughty rosarians
as Alister Clark, T. A. Stewart, James
Allen, John Tallent, Herbert Brunning
and Judge Moule.
One of the few Australian Rhodes
scholars to make his mark in politics is
R. J. RUDALL.
Reginald John chairman of com-
mittees in the S.A. Parliament. Fifty-
three, he’s a lawyer by profession, his
LL.B. coming from Adelaide Uni. A
Rhodes scholarship took him to Oxford,
where he graduated B. Litt. He served
in the Great War and just before the
Armistice was Assistant Director of the
A.I.F. Education Service in London. Has
been in Parliament for five years, repre-
senting first Barossa and then Angas.
Does good service for hospitals and is
on the councils of the S.A. Law Society
and Adelaide Uni. Plays tennis and
golf and enjoys a day’s fishing.
It is a seafaring legend that in the
palmy days of the clipper ships a man
couldn’t get even an A.B.’s berth on such
top notchers as the Thermopylae or the
Cutty Sark unless he held a master’s
ticket. However that may be, there is
no doubt that the crews were hand-
picked. Captain John Arthur Johnson,
who died in Sydney last week, began
his sailoring in Windjammers, and was
for several voyages second mate of the
Cutty Sark. He came of a Devon family
and his ancestors had sailed with Drake.
Captain Johnson went into steam in
middle life and saw service on transports
during the Boer War. For many years
before his retirement he was an officer
of the E. and A. line. A son has a chief
officer’s berth with the Patrick Co.
“E.H.M.” moralises and remembers:
About the safest way to get on in the
world now seems to be to become a head in
one of Ireland’s three universities. The 78-
year-old Dean of the Faculty of Celtic at the
National University was picked by his Chan-
cellor, Eamon de Valera, for President of Eire
at £15,000 a year. Now Queen’s University’s
F. W. Ogilvie has gone to a £7OOO-a-year job
on 8.8. C. Ogilvie comes of an adventurous
family, some of whose branches are in Aus-
tralia. Grounded at Clifton, he passed to Bal-
liol College, Oxford, where he had earned
a first-class honors degree in classical mods.,
•at 20, when war broke out. Straightway he
joined the Bedfords, rose to be a captain, and
lost an arm; somehow by sheer force of per-
sonality he managed to stay at the front. De-
mobbed, he went back to Oxford as a lecturer,
but presently Scotland spied him. The last time
I saw him he was Professor of Political Eco-
nomy at Edinburgh University, was running the
Chamber of Commerce and, it seemed, every-
thing else commercial in the Scottish capital,
but left himself time for burning enthusiasms
which embraced the League, the art of
prophecy, the pacifist movement and what have
you. In 1934 North of Ireland fell under his
spell, and he was made head of Queen’s.


( •;
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
??
&
{fsium
m
m
&
e
ui>
sffissg
jet
ec
&
tb*
66
ft
a
t» e
tie*
333 s
9-6 d.; 18-1/-; 27-1/6. Also flat fifties, square hundreds, and round airtight fifties


ABORIGINALITIES
“Don't sit gaping like an idiot! Throw me a hammer or something .”
“Puffinus”: This month the four or
five plainly-dressed wives of that hand-
some, dapper little polygamist the blue
wren, are busy at building the domed
nests which always look as if the lady
had inadvertently built herself in and
then had to burrow a way out through
one side. He doesn’t take a hand in the
hard yakker, but fusses round and ac-
companies their toil with the sweet,
lively singing which has earned him one
of his other, names —superb warbler. An-
other dressy loafer of a husband is the
diamond-bird. While his drab wife is
digging a 2ft.-long tunnel into a sloping
bank and weaving a neat bark nest at
the end of it, he flaunts a crimson tail in
the sunlight and swells a rich yellow
throat in tuneful remarks about “sleep
baby,” and “sweet Dick.” But at any
rate he’s a respectable monogamist, and
does his bit for the family commissariat
later on.
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: The English equiva-
lents of some abo. names are anything
but poetical. There is a creek, for in-
stance, in the Castlereagh (N.S.W.)
watershed called Merrygoen, a corrup-
tion of Murrelgoen, which means “bleed-
ing nose.” It got its mellifluous name
from a tribal fight which took place in
the long ago near the bank of the -creek.
During the shindy one warrior received
a terrific blow on the nose with a nulla
nulla, which put him out of action. The
honored victim became known to the
white settlers as Broken-nosed Jimmy.
* * * *
“H.W.”: “Colonel Bungstarter’s” hog
(B. 29/6/’3B) was not such an old-stager
after all, for the domestic pig’s natural
span is anything from 15 to 30 years.
Since a sow produces two litters of
from six to eight piglets each year, and
has a useful life of about 10 years, a
30-year-old couple would have 140 direct
offspring, and, if the same propagation
rate continued during their lifetime,
about 1,400,000 descendants in all. That
is, of course, assuming that none become
bacon before their time. It is not sur-
prising then that a few stray porkers in
a country removed from their natural
enemies can overrun a district in a few
years.
* * * *
“Wang”: I was interested in the antics
of the city chap we had working on the
farm. He was tiptoeing towards the back
of an old shelter-shed in the horse-pad-
dock carrying an axe. I called to him,
asking what the game was. “Sh!” he
answered in an excited voice. “A snake! ”
Reaching the shed he raised the axe and
brought it down with a “whoosh!” The
next instant, from inside the shed came
a hissing sound like steam escaping from
a boiler, half the roof was lifted off and
fell on top of the hand, and out from
the shed with mighty leaps came Jacko,
the pet kangaroo. He flew two fences
like a bird, and vanished down the creek-
bank. I rushed up and pulled the roof
off the half-stunned hand, to find him
gazing at the “snake” he had slaughtered:
six inches of old Jacko’s tail that had
been showing under the bottom of the
shed wall. Thereafter, to the day he
died, Jacko took his siesta in the open.
“Drum”: What bonehead said the
railway track was a good walking
medium for two? Apart from having a
sober mate and sundry other things, how
long would any man’s feet stand skating
along anything so rigid? If his insteps
lasted intact a couple of hours they’d do
just twice as long as mine would, and I
think I’ve skated and pushed the knot as
far as most men.
* * * *
“Naturalist”: The activities of the
rainbow-bird, or bee-eater, are not al-
ways directed at bee destruction. Actually
bees receive attention only when the
natural supply of food runs short, as in
winter or when droughty conditions pre-
vail. Once a bird acquires a taste for
bees, however, there is no remedy except
the gun. Insectivorous, there is no
greater feathered insect-destroyer than
this graceful fowl, and the useful work
it does is incalculable. Lawful destruc-
tion should be limited to the immediate
surroundings of apiaries.
*** • ♦
“Nagheer”: What is the record time —
time, not guess or plain lie —for a horse
to continue bucking? Five minutes or
so is the popular idea, nearly as long or
longer to most who have sat one out and
retained any interest in time. Actually,
according to W. E. Jack, who, after 60
years experience of the Queensland bush,
is still sitting rough ’uns at 75, not much
more than 10 seconds. The horse’s own
contortions and acrobatics, particularly
if he’s off the grass like the great ma-
jority of bush buckers, take it out of him
too much for any long-sustained effort.
Except for specialists like Lance Sku-
thorpe’s Firefly, or the historic Dargan’s
Grey, fed and trained for bucking, horses
don’t practise the art regularly. A very
light rein encourages the nag to work
himself out quickly, and the expert
rider’s leg-grip hampers breathing. An
experienced breaker will anticipate the
horse’s next move by watching the spot
just ahead of the saddle —if he“loses his
sight” he loses his balance also,_ and is
soon off.
“Onam”: “Sa Tiko” (B. 13/7/’3B)
mistakes his vegetable when he describes
“Fijian taro” as “bulamakau, bread and
fruit-salad.” His description bears a faint
resemblance to monsterio deliciosa, but
it no more resembles the ordinary taro
which writer has sampled up and down
the South Seas than it describes the Malay
durian. Taro proper is a tasteless,
starchy lily-root, and probably the most
sickening food to face regularly in
existence. Some enthusiasts, starving for
vegetables of some sort, cut up and boil
the green stems of the leaves, but these
are beastlier than the root. As to the
fruit-salad! Even trade gin hardly ex-
plains that.
“Naturala” : Isn’t Willie Wagtail just
the widest-awake of all the feathered
tribe? Was watching Will and his Wife
feeding the other evening, hovering over
the wire-netting-fenced pens of an exten-
sive poultry farm. Straight into the
fences the wagtails would fly—to appa-
rent disaster. But just at the critical
moment wings would close, the impetus
of flight then carrying the tightly-tucked
body through the l|in. mesh, the wings
spreading again instantly without any
check in flight. Time after time I
watched them repeat this manoeuvre, with
never the slightestmisjudgment or check-
ing of speed, passing through the wire-
net.ting almost as if it wasn’t there.
* ■ * * *
“F.Y.7.”: I join with “Notaden”
(B. 13/7/’3B) and others in denying the
ridiculous statement that brolgas dance
stately, formal pavanes and sarabands.
Like all the “social” cranes, as opposed
to the solitary varieties such as our
swamp-dwelling blue “crane,” which is
really a heron, the brolgas burst into wild
irresponsible caperings when the mood
takes them, and that is all there is to it.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: A strange friendship exists
between a pretty, swift little butterfly of
the Miletus family and the fierce mound-
building ants. Like many other friend-
ships, it is based on mutual advantages.
The butterfly lays her eggs on the
mound, always selecting one at the foot
of wattle. The ants carry them deep
into the nest, where they hatch into
caterpillars, make their way outside,
climb the wattle to feed by night and
return to the nest at dawn for shelter.
Any other caterpillars would be torn to
pieces by the savage worker-ants, but
these are caressed for the sake of a sweet
honeylike exudation from their bodies.
Seeking this, the ant 9 also clean the
lodgers’ bodies from the spores of a
fungus which the ants cultivate, and
which would otherwise kill the cater-
pillars. The pupation sleep is spent at
the bottom of the nest, and there the
butterflies emerge frorri the cases, to
make their way to the surface, dry their
new wings, and whirl happily aloft into
the sunshine.
* * ❖ *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Someone mentioned
“dead-finish” as an umbrageous delight
suitable for the Barkly Tableland (Q.).
If this is identical with the diminutive
monstrosity of the same name that rears
its prickly carcass at odd intervals
throughout the Westralian wheatbelt,
they had better give it a miss. Growing
as a rule about 10ft. to 15ft. high, um-
brella-shaped, with short spikes in place
of leaves, it spreads its branches to the
ground and keeps its trunk just out of
range of the axe. The clearer, faced with
the task of reducing its defences, walks
around, looking for an opening; finally
throws the axe into the centre, and crawls
gingerly in after it. It’s harder than
jamwood, and each stroke in the
cramped quarters brings its quota of
pricks, each one festering. The darned
stuff can reach out a yard to get you
as you pass. Of course, if Barkly
wants “dead finish” it can have it for
mine. But why not try something easy,
like prickly-pear, first?
* * * *
“Puffinus”: Owls are elusive birds,
little known even among average good
bird-observers. They are surprisingly
common in southern Queensland, which
has every Australian species except the
Tasmanian masked owl —and it is an
open question whether that is a true
species. Their elusiveness is a benefit to
man as well as to themselves, as they
destroy great numbers of mice, rats and
harmful insects. Their claws are one of
the most curious features of a curious
bird-folk; one toe is reversible, so that
the prey can be gripped and carried
either with three toes in front and one
behind after the fashion of a hawk, or
with two in front and two behind like
a parrot’s tootsies.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A party of tourists
sightseeing around our W.A. district
asked permission to cut a bagfull of
Guildford grass from my paddock to
take back to Ireland. Months later I
received a sample of excellent horsehair,
and a letter explaining that it had been
made from that Guildford grass. They
had also taken some bulbs with
them, and in the letter, enthusiastically
announced the intention of cultivating
the weed and flooding the market with
synthetic horsehair. As the article was
indistinguishable from the genuine horse-
hair, which was fetching 2s. 6d. a pound,
the project sounded feasible.
* * * *
“Williami”: Interrupted by a wall
103 ft. high, the three great rivers Delatite,
Goulburn and Howqua bank up the
Eildon Weir (Vic.) into a huge lake of
306,000,000 acre-feet of precious irriga-
tion juice. The Mallee farmers who have
just been relieved of their severest
drought by a moderate fall of rain, col-
lared every drop of the Eildon water to
save their lives. The lake, now dry
except for small puddles, is the Mecca
of fishermen. Trout and perch are now
dead in countless thousands. Twenty
years of stocking has gone the way of
all fish in one dry spell. Next season
and the next there will be no thrills
for the elite of Melbourne, whose 40
launches now rest on their sides in the
mud. May a mere layman suggest that
weirs should be built on the coffer-dam
principle? A 10ft. sinking below the
lip of the outlet trap would ensure the
safety of all fish —until anglers awake
again from their law-enforced season of
hibernation.
❖ * s|:
“Valencia Creek”: Why is it that
station cooks develop mannerisms or
strange quirks of mind that set them
apart from their fellow-men? The most
unusual specimen I ever met was in the
Hay (N.S.W.) district. When my mate
and I went to bite him for a handout,
his sullen face and contemptuous expres-
sion warned us to expect the worst, and
his first words confirmed our suspicions.
“Dunno what youse blokes expect to get
here,” he growled. “I got nothin’ at all
to give yer.” While he was speaking, he
grabbed our sugarbag and threw a cooked
leg of mutton, a loaf of bread and a large
brownie into it. “I tell yer I got nothin’
for you,” he went on, hurling tins of jam
and assorted foodstuffs into the bag.
“It’s all I can do to feed me own hungry
mob of blankards here without providin’
tucker for every deadbeat on the track.”
As we staggered off with the bulging
bag we wondered what sort of a handout
we’d have clicked for if the peevish
babbler chanced to have a fair supply
of tucker in stock.
THE WALIZING BROLGA
“There are bushmen,” said Jimmy the Swinger,
“ ’oo reckon they know quite a lot
About bird-life, but (stiffen the sparrers!)
some things that they say are all rot.
Now, for instance, a common belief is that
brolgas are so flamin’ shy
They’ll ’ave nothin’ to do with us ’umans, but
(strike me) that blurb’s all me eye.
“I’m fencin’ along the Georgina, and lobs back
to camp there one day,
An’ alongside me tent there’s a brolga; 1
reckon I’ll scare him away,
But ’e don’t duck at all when ’e sees me; in
fact, when' that bird ’ears me speak
He just dances along sorta friendly. I see
somethin’s clamped on ’is beak;
“It’s a round bit o’ tin. When I shift it ’e
looks at me calm as yer like,
And to show that ’e’s grateful, the blankard,
’e Toilers me round like a tyke,
Comes an’ watches me work, an' ’e uses the
foot o’ me bed for a nest,
An’ each rnornin’ 'e wakes me be dancin' a
step-dance o’ thanks on me chest.
“Dance? I never see anyone like, ’im! We’d
finish our tea of a night
Then ’e'd find me mouthorgan an’ dump it
right inta me mitt. ’ls delight
Was to dance to them famous old waltzes I’d
play, an’ ’e picked ’em up quick ?
Then 1 teaches ’im steps as me partner—’e
soon got the hang o’ that trick!
“Well, me conlrack cuts out an’ I’m humpin’
me knot; yair, that fowl comes along.
At the pubs we would show ’em our paces;
we’d dance as I warbled a song.
There was beer for us both —an’ I drank it,
an’ gives ’im a sniff o’ the rest.
Then we enters a contest an’ cleans up the
championship o’ the West!
“After that, competitions was easy. We might’ve
been winnin’ ’em yet,
But a joint we ’ops inter there’s jazz on —that’s
new to me an’ me pet.
Well, ’e gives me the office ’e’ll try it, but,
’struth! it’s the rhythm that wins,
Fer s’whelp me I still ain’t unravelled the knots
that it tied in ’is pins.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“We’ll take up collection again , friens', as Cap'n an' fam’ly ’ave come in since We took un up first time."
“Old-timer”: “Pee-wee” Allen hit
Parkes (N.S.W.) well chequed-up from
the dry areas about Mt. Hope, and went
on a royal bender. Pugnacious in his
cups, he had several constables to pick
from, but always managed to get into
holts with the sergeant, a handy bloke
with his dooks. In between bouts “Pee-
wee” spent his time planning how to get
even, but no opportunity presented itself
until one Sunday when Forbes came to
Parkes to play football. The match ended
in a free-for-all, with players, spectators,
and police mixing it freely. The sergeant
was holding his own till a hand reached
out and gently tucked up his coat-tails,
then a bluchered foot connected with
its object. The serg. pitched forward,
another blilcher took him in the slats,
and “Pee-wee” dodged away, appeased.
“Firs’ time I ever joined in a football
match,” he told us later, “but I scored,
all right!”
* * * *
“Eureka”: “They tell me that new
hand of yours is a steady bloke,” Murphy
remarked. “Steady’s’ right,” Dad re-
plied. “He’s so flamin’ steady that a
swagman saw him down in the potato-
paddock one morning and tried to pinch
his hat and coat off him. Thought he
was a scarecrow.”
“O. W. Waireki”: At 3.30 a.m.. Dad
woke the new hand and told him it was
time to start mustering. “But I can still
see the stars,” gasped the surprised lad.
“Course you can,” Dad snapped. “What
did yer expect to see —comets ?”
*s*
“Quercus”: That ironbark can outlast
other timbers in the ground has joined
the red-flannel-for-sore-throats and other
bush myths. From records extending
over 25 years the P.M.G.’s department
has found that the average life of iron-
bark and stringy bark poles is about 17
years. Cypress pine lasts about 22 years,
but the prize goes to box. Poles of 32
years are still standing.
* * * *
“Physalia”: Why (B. 13/7/’3B) do
land-living crabs have to baptise their
eggs in salt-water? For the same reason
that, if the salt-sea content of human
blood, derived from ancestors who first
managed to contrive an anemone exist-
ence above high-water mark, is altered,
the human will not breed. Crabs not
being built with that internal reservoir
of ancient seas to keep them going, the
parents have to get their yearly sea-souse.
The popularity of surfing among humans
may really be due to urges from imme-
morial years ago, although it has so far
had no upward effect on the birthrate.
Crabs add the necessary salts for com-
plete. fertilisation by dipping the already
impregnated eggs in the sea from which
they originally came. Human blood
plasma, the fluid in which the corpuscles
are suspended, corresponds in chemical
content to that of the seas from which
our first humble ancestor managed to
reach a less dangerous habitat for keeps.
* * # *
“Culchaw”: While the cultivation of
the larvae of the blowfly for use as fish-
bait has long been a British industry
(and is also considered to be an occu-
pation eminently fitted for sufferers from
t.b., both on account of its lightness and
also because of some supposed virtue
in the ammoniacal gases given off by
the inevitable mass of living putrescence),
it comes as a shock to see these —er —
creatures referred to as “maggots” (B.
29 /6/ ’3B), even in an advertisement.
Meandering one day along the banks of
an English stream, I came on a sports-
man baiting his hook. Delicately he
inserted the barb through several
wrigglers. “Are maggots good bait?” I
innocently inquired. “Gentles, my friend,
we call them gentles,” he corrected. And
“gentles” I found them everywhere to be.
And to anyone contemplating the start-
ing of an Australian branch of the in-
dustry let me advise that “gentles” reared
on a diet of fish-heads are much more
enticing to the fish tribe than those
brought up on odoriferous meat.
* * * #
“Spini”: Despite water-trees, etc., the
abo, with all his heritage of bushcraft,
will sometimes perish from thirst. Out
east of Edjudina (W.A.), we came on
a dry rockhole with a dead gin alongside
it. About a mile further on we ran down
the buck —crawling on his hands and
knees. It was towards the end of sum-
mer, and he reckoned he’d been without
water for over four days. He and his
unlucky gin had dug up roots, but
all had been sapless. His tribal water-
holes had been dry. Prospectors out
with a string of camels used often to
strip waterholes of what to the natives
was sufficient for a year. But apart from
that a prolonged drought will dry up
everything, gnamma holes, lake samphire,
tree-roots. Struggling from one dry
“A bit on the cool side this mornin', don't you think , Mrs. Brown?”
waterhole to another, the weaklings and
oldsters of a tribe will drop and die,
only the hardiest surviving though
occasionally even they fail in the end.
Such age-long stragglings for survival
have produced a spinifex black capable
of surviving up to five days without
water (few white men can last out two),
but sometimes in periods of extreme
drought even five days will not bring a
perishing black to water.
“Cam Cove”: Birds and animals, in-
cluding homo sapiens, are antipathetic to
foreigners. Snakes, I fancy, are more
civilised. They agree with all strangers
of their species. Put a bunch of every
kind in a pit and they will cuddle up in
masses to keep warm. Brown and black,
tiger and whip snakes belong to the one
Big Brother movement. They indulge
the get-together habit without any formal
introduction, and there is no class-dis-
tinction or snobbishness. Yet, in their
native conditions, necking is taboo. They
don’t even have visiting days or cocktail
parties. The eternal triangle is non-
existent, and marital rights are sacred.
* * * *
“Johnno”: “Horses can reason, make
no mistake about that,” said old Dan.
“There’s my ole Daisy’s foal, Toby,
f’rinstance. ’E’s just six munce old. The
other day ole Tom, me dray-horse,
caught young Toby smellin’ round ’is
tuckerbox in the little night-paddick back
o’ the barn, and ’e gives ’im a nip on
the rump as a ’int to leave things alone.
It musta hurt, ’cos Toby gallops twice
round the paddick afore ’e pulls up. ’E
stands thinkin’ for a while, then comes
dodgin’ back, blowin’ ’is nose an’
switchin’ his tail an’ lookin’ daggers
at ole Tom outer th’ corner of
’is eye, follerin’ ’im up after a
bit, all the while edgin’ closer. Ole
Tom musta known ’e was up ter mis-
chief, ’cos ’e kept watchin’ Toby, too.
Nothin’ ’appened till ole Tom ’ad
cropped ’is way past th’ ’ive o’ bees I’d
set up in the paddick. Then, layin’ ’is
ears back, Toby rushes up, w’ips round
an’ kicks over the hive. Then ’e goes
for the lick of’is life to the furthest end
o’ th’ paddick, where ’e stands, grinnin’
away as ’e watched Tom throwin’
Catherine-wheels tryin’ ter shake orf th’
swarm.”
“Hanko”: Offhand, I can’t think of a
good point in favor of the starling, but
it has one accomplishment that no other
bird, to my knowledge, is possessed of.
It can cluck, gurgle,' whistle, trill, warble
and flute all in the one outpouring of
sound, and beat time thereto with beak-
clickings as an extra —a truly remarkable
performance.
V
“Bung”: He was a flash sort of a cove
who camped in the Darr channels (C.Q.).
During the night the river came down,
and he shinned up the nearest tree.
There was water all round him, his swag
and kit gone and enough ants up that
tree with him to stock an Ark. As it
was, unable to swim, and about half a
mile to the land, he stuck to his tree and
killed ants. After a couple of days I
happened along and took it on myself
to earn my medal. I stripped and went
in to try and save that rooster perched
in the fork of the tree. It was a long
wade through mud and water, and the
stuff never came above my thighs for the
whole distance!
jjs »i»
“Sam”: None of the sheep tallies so
far claimed come up to the 65,000 wethers
I counted from one paddock to another.
Locality: Katandra station, 90 miles
from Hughenden (Q.). Time: 1894.
Started at daybreak, finished 4 p.m., only
stoppage lunch-time. Had a tallykeeper
to score the 100’s, counted in threes, a
common method in those days. Season
was good and the wethers strong, and
ran well. The mob had been put in one
paddock to eat down the overabundance
of grass, but had to be removed as the
railway had reached the paddock. They
blocked the train by running across the
line; the whole mob had'to get oyer
once the procession began. That station
had over 300,000 head on it at the time,
and counting mobs of 20,000 was com-
mon. Eyestrain was negligible.
OVERTURE TO MORNING.
Hark!
It is dark
As I half awake with a dreamy sigh,
But a dim, dim greyness creeps in the sky,
And in the grey
Of still far-off day
I see the dew on the dark grass glistening,
And my heart is stirred to a dreamy listening.
A soft flute sounds —a gentle quivering,
The sound of grass in the new wind shivering;
And then it changes,
And boldly ranges
To stronger notes in the stirred trees rustling,
As the morning breeze o’er the grass comes
bustling,
Bangs a shutter and slams a door,
And dies on a whispering note once more.
A single note
From a small bird’s throat,
A new note here and a new note there
And the choir of birds is everywhere!
Glad of the day
That, far away,
As a pale gold gleam in the sky is showing
Behind the outline of dark trees glowing.
A cock has crowed, and they all are crowing,
Treble and baritone, tenor and bass,
Far as the ear the sound can trace,
Like the ceaseless sound of the ocean’s roar,
Beating and beating upon the shore.
A merry shout and a joyous bark,
Life is awake and gone the dark!
High out of sight
In its bath of light,
Merrily, merrily, trills the lark.
Swift spears of gold through the dark trees run,
Changing to greenness one by one,
And a choir of gladness greets the sun.
Drum of feet on the soft ground falling;
Sound of cattle to cattle calling;
The trees in the breeze with laughter shaking;
All things glad of the earth’s awaking.
N.S.W.
HAROLD MERCER.


ADAMS' (TATT ER SA L L'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Kyan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; VVm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Five reasons for appointing This Company
More and more people are appointing Perpetual Trustee Company,
Limited, rather than relations or friends, as their Executors and Trustees.
There are five good reasons:
Perpetual Service, Ready Access,
Wide Experience, Undoubted Security,
At Moderate Charges.
Call or write for full particulars.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
* directors.
T. H Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. rle L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis,
n. V. Douglass, Managing Director. cvnw . n , P - Curcton > Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SVDNEt.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Queensland National Bank
Net To
June, Profit, Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
<£ £ £ £
1928.. 211,960 10p.c.= 172,139 l „ qS9I 7q „ fi79
Written off premises, £IO,OOO J ’ *
1929.. 212,385 10 p.c. rr 174,998 t 97 oq 7 0 9 -i o^q
Written off premises, £IO,OOO J 841,ui>a
1930.. 204,956 9 p.c. = 157,500 1 „
Written off premises, £IO,OOO J 87,455 8o8,oi.)
1931.. 142,291 6J p.C.= 113,750 ) 877 056
Written off premises, £IO,OOO ) 18,041 877,056
1932.. 74,088 4 p.c.= 70,000 1 87s .
Written off premises, £2,500 ) 1,588 878, 044
1933.. 75,540 4 p.c.= 70,000 )
Written off premises, £2,500 ) 8,040 881,084
1934.. 69,911 4 p.c.= 70,000 )
Written off premises, £2,500 ) ~ 879,09.,
1935.. 72,192 4 p.c. = 70,000 1 07c 7C -
Written off premises, £2500 ) B<B,i&<
1936.. 73,648 4 p.c. = 70,000 1 879 935
Written off premises, £2500 ) 1,118 °‘ y,yß
1937.. 77,320 4J p.c. = 74,375 1 ... BRn ORn
Written off premises, £2500 ) 1
1938.. 81,671 4t p.c. = 78,750 1 . 91 „an
Written off premises, £2500 ) 481 880,801
Since the crisis of the early 1930’s the
earnings of those in commerce and in-
dustry have, for the most part, made a
recovery in bold contrast with the stag-
nation of bank profits. These are derived
mainly from the difference between in-
come from advances and payments for
deposits, from the margin between buy-
ing and selling rates in the exchange
market and from returns from invest-
ments and sundry pickings, including
charges for country and inter-State clear-
ances.
Chief use of banks to the community
is as lenders. Yet the Government pro-
poses to compel the trading banks to
lodge part of their deposits with the
central bank, which doesn’t propose to
pay for the money thus received. Be-
sides leaving the trading banks to carry
the baby in this respect, adoption of
the proposal would contract their
credit basis, and might lead to an un-
necessary rise in advance rates. The
banks claim that, since their existing
liquids could not provide the additional
cash, the only way to meet compulsory
deposits with the central institution would
be to reduce advances, and this at a time
when the call for credit, especially from
primary producers, is more likely to
strengthen than diminish. It would all be a
high price for the community to pay for
the very doubtful advantage of giving the
central bank more power than it now
enjoys in the control of credit, of which
the trading banks can claim to have made
an equal, if not more, judicious use than
the Commonwealth Bank.
The Q.N. does about nine-tenths of its
business in its home State, where it
gathers more deposits and makes more
advances than any other of the associated
trading banks. Last year conditions were
mixed. The markets for wool and wheat
were falling ones, and some of the
pastoral areas in the central and far nor’-
west of the State are back virtually to
drought conditions. But for the cattle-
grower and dairy-, sugar- and other
farmers the season and markets were
both good, while turnover in the building,
manufacturing and distributive trades
continued to expand, and so did the
volume of imports, to the benefit of bank
earnings in the exchange market.
After making whatever provision was
considered necessary for contingencies,
declared net earnings were £4351 better
at £81,671, or little more than 38 p.c. of
the 1929 figure. The £81,671, most of
which appears to have come from
Government securities (£2,229,893), was
only 3.1 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined), or 4.6
p.c. on capital alone as against 4.4, 4.2,
4.1, 4, 4.3, 4.2, 8.1, 11.7 and 12.1 p.c.
back to 1929. The div. was lifted from
to 4j p.c.
Balance-sheet figures exhibit a sound
financial structure:
1930. 1933. 1937. 1938.
Paid £ £ £ £
capital . . 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000
Interminable
stock . . 3,091,069 3,015,095 2,750,842 2,727,584
Hills, etc. . . 348,219 302,531 356,843 370,616
Deposits . . 8,657,228 7,872‘,214 9,110,747 8,992,762
Liquid
assets . . 3,790,277 4,612,512 4,543,443 4,638,779
Advances ..10,423,181 8,694,760 9,787,975 9,563,812
Premises .. 527,173 549,253 556,770 558,549
The contraction of £224,163 in advances
and of £117,985 in deposits was mainly
the result of “merging certain large credit
and debit balances without disturbing
in any way the bank’s earning power.”
Actually, the business continued to ex-
pand. When the books closed, liquids
amounted to 49.5 p.c. of the liabilities
to the public, excluding interminable
stock, and depositors could see over 19
p.c. of the amount coming to them in
cash, etc. Including the old deposit stock
with shareholders’ funds, the bank was
holding only 345. lid. of the public’s
money for every pound of its own. It
is a very strong position, but it all means
low earning power.
The market prices the £5-paid shares
at £5 2s. as against £5 12s. a year ago.
At the lower figure the return is 4.4 p.c.
on a 4.5 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible
cover is visibly £7 10s. 4d., or £2 Bs. 4d.
more than the market price, which is a
tangible expression of opinion that the
co. is not obtaining a reasonable return
on its capital and reserves combined.
New Zealand Breweries, Ltd.
To Re-
Mur.. Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.f
£ £ £ £
1928.. 121,332 10 p.c. = 50,000 71,332 234,829
Hidden reserves disclosed, £125,000 .. 109,829
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. 359,829
1929.. 128,848 15 p.c. = 75,000 53,848 305,981
1930.. 123,038 15 „ „ 93,750 29,288 276,693
Approximate profit on conversion of
debentures, £342,314; goodwill Reserves.
(£375,000) extinguished .. .. 98,307
1931.. 165,878 124 p.c.= 136,533 29,345 127,652
1932.. 86,739 8 „ „ 87,382 127,009
1933.. 77,224 7 „ „ 76,400 764 127,773
Insurance reserve taken in, £35,000 .. 163,135
1934.. 76,821 7 p.c. = 76,459 362 163,135
1935.. 82,836 7 „ „ 76,459 6,377 169,512
1936.. 90,402 74 „ „ 81,920 8,482 177,994
1937.. 105,559 8} „ „ 92,843 12,716 190,710
Share premiums, £135.777 .. .. 326,487
1938.. 143,698 Si p.c. =139,007 4,691 331,178
To be written off freeholds, £135,777.. 195,401
* Nine months, f Goodwill ( £500,000 to commence,
since written off) not treated as an asset.
The market prices the fully-paid pound
shares, covered by 225. sd. in net tan-
gibles, at 425. 9d. as against 495. 6d. a
year ago, when a one-for-two issue at
a premium of ss. per share was in the
offing. On an 8\ p.c. div. basis the
return at 425. 9d. is 4 p.c. This is
lower than the .yield obtainable from
other listed Maoriland brewery stocks,
which suggests that the market expects a
bit more from this co. than from its
competitors in the future ; and perhaps
it won’t be disappointed in its anticipa-
tions.
The co. has a firm hold on a large slice
of the trade in the Dominion —it pays
excise on about three-fourths of the beer
consumed there having amalgamated
the interests of James Speight and Cos.,
Hancock and Cos., J. Staples, the Lion
and half a dozen other leading
breweries in 1923, paying £500,000
(shares) for goodwill and £1,000,000
(cash) for tangibles. The cash was put
up by the public in 10 p.c. debentures,
since redeemed partly by purchase
(£300,000-odd) in the open market and
partly by conversion into scrip, one share
for each £2 of debenture stock. The
capital profit was used to eliminate the
balance of goodwill from the accounts —
£125,000 had been written off the intan-
gible from inner reserves in 1928.
After meeting all exes., paying the
debenture interest and providing for con-
tingencies, declared net earnings averaged
over 20 p.c. on capital for the years
to the close of accounts in 1930. Over
the same period, divs. averages 11.4 p.c.
sweetened with £250,000 of bonus scrip,
scattered in 1929. But before share-
holders could get any benefit from the
debenture conversion slump intervened,
the excise on beer was bumped up from
Is. to Is. 6d. a gallon in 1931, other
taxes were increased, and the Dominion’s
thirst declined sharply ; and so did profits,
until the 1934 term. Excise was then
reduced to Is. 3d. per gallon, and con-
sumption, governed largely by the size
of payrolls, has climbed steadily each
year since, reaching pre-slump level, or
thereabouts, during the last term. How-
ever, much of the gain in turnover has
been swallowed by increased labor and
other costs (still climbing) over which
the management has no control, and de-
clared net earnings have not been far in
advance of dividend requirements —7 p.c.
for the three years to th'e close of
accounts in 1936, followed by p.c.
and then 8£ p.c. for the last two years.
Following purchase of the Timaru and
White Star (Kaiapoi) breweries towards
the close of accounts in 1937, the co. last
year took over the hotel freeholds of
J. Staples and Cos. for £528,000, recon-
ditioned the Waterloo (Wellington) and
other hotel properties, installed a lot of
new bottling plant, extended brewing
equipment, started reconstruction of the
Speight brewery, and increased its ad-
vances to those in the trade. To do all
this it issued 543,108 new pound shares
at a premium of ss. each (£135,777,
which is to be struck off the book value
of freeholds), and went outside for a
further £60,877:
1928. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. £500,000 £1,092,271 £1,035,379
Mortgages .. . . 39,473 59,785
Debentures.. .. 1,000,000
Sundry creditors.. 258,469 170,917 211,482
Freeholds, etc. . . 550.000 553,084 1,213,540
Plant, etc. .. 170,699 120,668 207,179
Investments . . 425,646 559,609 574,817
Stocks .. .. 167,205 160,217 243,07 S
Debtors . . . - 180,925 211,804 262,914
Cash . . . . 54,165 17,142
The year’s net growth in freeholds was
£660,456, plant £86,511, investments (in-
cluding advances to the trade) £15,208,
stocks £82,861, debtors £51,110. The
growth in the book value of fixed assets
was £746,967, and the more or less
liquid surplus (£809,542, including invest-
ments) was £71,160 stronger than at the
previous balance. Among other things,
it all suggests that the need for substan-
tial allowances for depreciation and ojher
contingencies has not been overlooked.
Although the co. already had the trade,
or most of it, from Staples’s hotels, it
gained the rentals, together with com-
plete control, and, thanks to exceptionally
prosperous conditions in the Dominion,
beer sales were a record. Gross earnings
(shown for the first time) were
£1,351,143. Including depreciation, etc.,
exes, amounted to £513,476, and the
excise bill was £82,119 heavier at
£698,969. Including £SOOO dropped from
somewhere into the insurance reserve,
the net result (up £38,139) was 8.7 p.c.
on capital, as against 9.6, 8.3 and 7.6
p.c. for the three preceding years.
Although costs are still on the up-
grade, and there promises to be less
money about this year than last, prospects
of further improvement in disclosed earn-
ings are encouraging.
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929*.. 10.898 20 p.c. = 4,000 6,898 2,226
1930 . . 31,668 40 „ „ 8,000 23,568 25,794
Bonus scrip issued, £20,000 .. 5,794
1931 .. 24,877 40 p.c. = 20,000 4,877 10,671
Unexplained reduction reserves, £2375.. 8,296
1932 .. 28.725 224 p.c. = 16,875 11,850 20,146
1933 .. 13,053 20 „ „ 15.000 18,199
1934 .. 30,202 20 „ „ 15,000 15,202 33,401
1935 .. 20,818 20 „ ~15,000 5,818 39,219
1936 . . 25,876 20 ~ ~ 15,000 10,876 50,095
Doubtful debts written off, £SOOO .. 45,095
1937 .. 13,887 124 p.c. = 9,375 4,512 49,607
Estab. exes., etc., capitalised, £24,924.. 24,683
1938 .. 10,895 5 p.c. = 4,000 6,895 31,578
*ls months.
Formed at the end of 1927 as an off-
shoot of Guinea Gold, this co, pioneered
air transport from the coast to the gold-
fields in New Guinea, and paid divs.
averaging 25.3 p.c. and scattered £20,000
of bonus scrip during the 8i years to
the close of accounts in 1936. Still,
past performances aren’t much of a
guide to future possibilities of the scrip.
Over the last decade competition has
forced freight rates down by over 81
p.c. in New Guinea, where a proposed
road to the goldfields might yet further
interfere with earnings. Partly because
of these developments, operations were
recently extended to Australia, where
development of air transport has become
a necessity, but where the success of air
services has thus far been more
operational than financial. The co.’s
Adelaide-Darwin weekly service com-
menced in February, 1937, and its daily
Adelaide-Sydney run, now in competition
with Ansett Airways, followed, while
entry upon the already-well-served Adel-
aide-Melbourne route is still under con-
sideration.
To buy more ’planes and establish
ground organisation, etc., for the new
routes, £80,000 of 7 p.c. cumulative par-
ticipating pref. capital was gathered in
July, 1937, making paid capital £160,000:
1936. 1937.* 1938.*
Paid capital .. .. £75,000 £80,000 £160,000
Liabilities . . . . 12;549 54,990 24,444
Fixed assets . . . . 70,950 141,119 165,718
Investments .. •• 31,788 5,398 3,152
Debtors 26,602 39,878 46,983
Cash 8,245 4,203 170
* Consolidated figures Guinea Airways and its sub-
sidiary, Holden’s Air Transport.
The new capital was used to lop £30,546
off the debt, add £24,599 net to the
book value of fixed assets, and meet the
cost (£19,523) of establishing the Aus-
tralian services, which, together with
exes, in connection with the pref. issue,
was capitalised at £24,924. Of the
£165,718 at which fixed assets appear,
the co.’s 20 aircraft (including two sea-
planes used in connection with the hunt
for oil in Papua) account for £116,662,
and hangars, workshops, plant, etc., for
the balance. When the books closed,
more or less liquids exceeded outside
liabilities by £25,861, and there was a
contingent liability of £21,000 (since
paid) in respect of a then-undelivered
Super-Lockheed machine.
More passenger and other freight was
carried last year. But, owing to the con-
tinued drop in the average tonnage
freight rate, gross earnings were £3593
lighter, as the following figures, which
relate to New Guinea only, show —net
cost of Australian services was capital-
ised, as already mentioned: —
Tonnage Average Passengers Gross
Feb., Transported. Freight.* Carried, Earnings.
1929.. 434 10.61d. 869 £44,006
1930.. 949 8.28d. 2,047 72,756
1931.. 1146 6.50d. 1,995 67,922
1932.. 3947 5.91d. 1,607 95,619
1933.. 3980 4,31 d. 3,856 77,695
1934.. 6044 4.12d. 7,398 111,203
1935.. 5688 3.36d. 9,721 114,465
1936.. 6476 2.90d. 12,137 137,729
1937.. 6705 2.49d. 11.869 96,134
1938.. 8408 1.94d. 12,120 92,541
* Per pound.
Including £16,888 for depreciation (only
£36 was so earmarked in the previous
term as against an average of £20,960
for the four years before that), exes.
(£81,646) were down £601, leaving the
net result £3028 lighter at £10,895, or
enough to cover the prefs.’ minimum re-
quirements and show 6.6 p.c. on ord.
capital. The ords. received Is. per share
in May, 1937, but no further distribution
was made.
What the future holds for the busi-
ness it is difficult to say at the moment.
Much depends upon when the co.’s Aus-
tralian services become profitable, and
this is partly wrapped up with the pos-
sibility of a Government contract in
connection with overseas mail on the
Darwin-Adelaide route, for maintenance
of which the co. deserves assistance. In
New Guinea the co. expects to receive
the benefit of more settled conditions
during the current term.
The directors have reduced their aggre-
gate fees from £2400 to £1800 a year.
At 18s. lOd. the prefs. return 7.4 p.c.
on a 7 p.c. div. basis, and the ords. at
13s. 9d. would yield 7.3 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
distribution. The net tangible cover is
£2 7s. lid. prefs. and 27s. lOd. ords.,
practically all in fixed assets, worth what
they can earn.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 52,032 10 p.c. = 44,370 7,662 148,090
1929.. 49,457 10 „ „ 44,370 5,087 153,183
1930.. 53,525 10 „ ., 44,370 9,155 162.338
1931.. 38,222 10 „ „ 44,370 — 156,190
1932.. '36,051 8 ,, ,, 35,496 555 156,745
1933.. 35,589 8 „ „ 35,496 93 156,838
1934.. 35,954 8 „ ,, 35.496 458 157,296
1935.. 40.924 S .. „ 35.496 5,428 102,724
1936.. 41,006 8 „ „ 35,496 5,510 168,234
1937.. 35,911 8 ,, „ 35,496 415 168,649
193S. . 42,915 84,, ,, 37,714. 5,201 173,850
This co.’s pound shares are a sound in-
vestment from which regular returns can
be expected. Though shareholders have
not skimmed much cream from the un-
dertaking, they have had an unbroken
flow of divs. for the last 40 years, pro-
fits are conservatively stated, and at the


m :
Ji^iV’qKStK
,
!■§!
"TWO THINGS CONVINCE*
ME HVDEAUUC BEANES
AND RESALE VALUE* 1
so I'M BI4VING.
CHEVROLET,/''
Check the prices quoted in the used
car columns of your daily newspapers
. . . consult used car dealers, and you’ll
get proof positive that Chevrolet has
considerably higher resale value than
any other car in its price class . Chevro-
let retains a consistently high value
because of its sound construction and
long-life features, especially its 6-cylinder
Overhead Valve engine . . . Chevrolet is
definitely your safest investment »
HYDRAULIC Brakes and higher resale value sold this motorist a Chevrolet. They are typical of the extra value
you get with this beautiful, luxuriously appointed 1938 Chevrolet. Take Hydraulic Brakes: At one time Chevrolet
was the biggest user of mechanical brakes, but discarded them in favour of hydraulics, although the hydraulic system
is much more expensive. The greatest safety factor in brakes is equalisation hydraulic brakes are automatically
equalised.
Chevrolet’s proved higher resale value is a point no motorist can afford to overlook. Investigations show that Chevrolet,
with its modern design and long-life features, retains its value better than other competitively priced cars.
And Chevrolet is the only low-priced full-sized car with every
modern feature. Here are. a few there are many more:
OVERHEAD VALVE ENGINE 6 CYLINDERS. No more, no less.
More cylinders mean extravagance less mean inefficiency. Proved
10% more efficient and economical than other types. More
accessible costs less to service. Extra-value features of this
engine, not fitted to many competitors, include Harmonic Balancer
which ensures smoother operation, longer life; and Octane Selector
permitting the use of any grade of fuel.
INDEPENDENT FRONT WHEEL SPRINGING (on Master models).
Adopted by every European racing car and endorsed by millions
of motorists. Combined with Shock-proof Steering, it makes
Chevrolet the safest, most comfortable car to drive there’s no
steering-wheel shudder.
STABILISED FRONT END. In Chevrolet, headlamps, radiator and
front mudguards attach rigidly to a sub-frame which floats on
rubber in the car frame. No movement —no rattles longer life.
"UNISTEEL TURRETOP" HOLDEN BODY. The finest made m
Australia. Body features include Genuine No-draught Ventilation,
the only system which gives proper ventilation control and real
driving comfort in any weather; Correct-vision Seating gives you a
full view of the road ahead and around you you can reverse out
of small spaces without discomfort.
HYPOID REAR AXLE GEARS make possible flat floor front and rear
there are no “humps” to trip you.
NEW REDUCED PRICES.
Since January, Chevrolet has
sold 1,332 more cars than its
nearest competitor. At the new
reduced prices, made possible
by these record-breaking sales,
Chevrolet is a great buy. Your
nearby dealer will gladly de-
monstrate.
Open Body
Models from
£304
Closed Body
Models from
£332
General Motors-Holden’s Limited
(All Prices Plus Soles Taxi
EASY TERMS AVAILABLE UNDER CONFIDENTIAL G. M.A.C. PLAN
'ou// he oheoc/ £5O oheoc / u/i/h
'havroletfi
ar MSB
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia.
C 632-44
end of June last £364,361 (16s. sd. per
share) was invested outside the business.
The div. rose from 8 p.c. at the begin-
ning of this century to 9 p.c. in 1913,
and to 10 p.c. in 1920 ; it remained steady
until 1932, since when it has been at
8 p.c. again until the latter half of
last term, when the distribution was at
the rate of 9 p.c. p.a. A small gift issue,
one for eight (the only thing of its kind
in the co.’s history), in 1926, makes 9 p.c.
worth a wink over 10 p.c. to old holders.
Earnings depend mainly upon ship-
ment of dairy produce and the back-load-
ing of goods for storekeepers and others
on the fertile N. S. Wales North Coast,
where the co. enjoys virtually a monopoly
of shipping north from Newcastle to the
Queensland border, and has done so for
half a century. The 1937 figures were
affected by an exceptionally dry spell.
Last term Nature was kind, and, includ-
ing £2500 dropped from somewhere into
the insurance reserve, the board wrote
net earnings £7004 better than the pre-
vious year’s at £42,915, or 9.6 p.c. on
capital as against 8, 9.2, 9.2, 8.1, 8, 8.1,
8.6, 12 and 11.1 p.c. back to 1929. That
was after allowing an extra £9733 for
depreciation, making £33,398 in all, equal
to 12.7 p.c. on the book-value of ship-
ping property at June 30.
Prospects of the co. being able to pay
9 p.c. for the current term seem bright
enough. At 40s. the scrip would return
4.5 p.c. on a 9 p.c. distribution. Visibly
the cover is 275. lOd. in net tangibles.
At the beginning of the term anew
motor-vessel, the Wyangarie, was placed
in commission, and has “proved specially
suitable to the trade.” A few months
later one of the older craft, the Una, was
wrecked. Like the* rest of the fleet, she
was fully insured with outside under-
writers, which might have something to
do with the year’s net addition of £2500
to the insurance reserve (£125,000), which
the “Wild Cat” believes to be genuine
profit and treats it accordingly. The net
growth in the book value of shipping
property was £10,391:
1931. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £443,700 £443,700 £443,700 £443,700
Liabilities* .. 30,859 40,171 42,972 57,161
Ships.. .. 298,238 212,352 251,200 261,591
Freeholds, etc. 35,859 16,920 16,710 16,393
Liquids . . 318,837 440,581 405,159 416,693
* Including tax provision.
Liabilities, which include an unspecified
provision for taxation, were up £14,189,
and £11,534 was added to liquids. The
more or less liquid surplus (£359,532)
was only £2655 lighter than at the previ-
ous balance.
Barlogan, Ltd.
This is a Melbourne float with a
nominal capital of £250,000 in £1 shares,,
of which 185,000 are offered, and 15,000
paids go to the promoter, F. O. Foster,
for his option over the freehold.
The idea is to put up an attractive
12-storeyed non-licensed residential hotel,
the Barlogan, at the corner of Clarendon
and George streets, East Melbourne,
handy to the tram and within a few
minutes’ walk across Fitzroy Gardens
to the intersection of Spring and Collins
streets. The number of suites and rooms
in the building is not mentioned, but
the dining-room is designed to seat 500
people. The building is to be air-
conditioned and/or centrally heated
throughout, and each room or suite,
except a few bachelor rooms on the
east wing, will have its private bathroom,
toilet, built-in wardrobes, telephone,
wireless reception, silent electric clock,
etc. —each two bachelor rooms share a
bathroom, toilet, etc. Other features are
to be a swim-pool, filled with warm
conditioned water, squash racquets court,
beauty salon, children’s nursery, gym-
nasium, billiard-room, barber’s shop and
electric laundry.
Estimated capital outlay is £370,000,
of which it is proposed to raise
£170,000 on a 15-year mortgage at 5
p.c. p.a., and present share issue to
cover the balance. The money is to
be laid out £36,000 (including 15,000
paids already referred to) on purchase
of the freehold (owned by Portia Geach
and her sister Florence); building,
£263,500; furnishings, £35,000 ; broker-
age and preliminary exes., £17,500;
leaving £IB,OOO for working capital. Cost
of the building is the architect’s estimate,
and includes his fees, air-conditioning for
the ground floor and all bedrooms on
the north side, kitchen equipment, swim-
ming-pool, billiard tables, etc. A com-
mission of Is. 6d. for each share sub-
scribed is payable to F. O. Foster, who
will meet brokerage of Is. per share on
applications through members of a recog-
nised Stock Exchange.
The proposed tariff rates are not stated,
but basing estimates on minimum charges
now made by “a well-known private
hotel,” and allowing 20 p.c. for vacancies,
the prospectus figures revenue at
£101,982 p.a. Including interest on mort-
gage (£8500), taxation (£5080), sinking
fund redemption (£6750) and £l7-50 to
be written off preliminary exes., out-
goings and charges are put at £81,412,
leaving a net profit of £20,570, equal to
10i p.c. on £200,000 of capital. The
estimates (prepared by F. O. Foster)
have been checked by cost accountant
J. L. Gillberg, who considers them
reasonable.
The board may go to allotment when
150,000 shares have been subscribed, but
it does not intend to proceed until addi-
tional finance of not less than £150,000


m
m
i
B
&r
SB?
2**
SSS
■M
£785 for you, lad,
WHEN YOU'RE 45
MORE and more young men (or their wise fathers for them) are
putting all they can spare out of their earnings into A.M.P.
policies. They are doing it for various reasons, but all the
reasons come down to this: they are investing in future security and
happiness.
Recently the Society paid a cheque, for £785 to a man of 45 who,
when he was 18, had taken out an A.MuP. policy for £5OO, payable at
45 years of age. The £5OO had grown, with bonuses, to £785, yet
he had paid a premium of only £l6/12/6 a year. About 6/5 a week!
If you are in work, -lad, you ought to be able to make such an
investment as this. If you are not, talk the matter over with your
father. Talk it over with him, anyway, and suggest to him that you
ask the nearest office of the Society to send an experienced adviser
to tell you the best way in which to buttress your future in this sure
and certain way.
Don’t delay. The younger you are, the less such buttressing will
cost you.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Business for Sale.
M INTNG REFERENCE LIBRARY for Sale.
Vl One of the most complete in Common-
wealtn, covering Geological Surveys and Min-
eral Resources all States. Collected at great
expense, time and money. Invaluable, to mining
man. Price £lOO, or near offer. No further
use to owner. Apply first instance, L. J.
DAVIS. Box 360 F, G.P.0., Sydney.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
$ $ $ $
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and CoUison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
For all Pump Repairs and Replacements, get in
touch with William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Agents for WORTH-
INGTON PUMPS for all services. Write for our
latest General Catalogue.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelaab/’ Melbourne.
is available. It is a sound decision, and
so is the one to take out a special re-
demption policy in connection with the
mortgage. The scrip is to be listed on
Change “as soon as practicable.” _
At the moment two Melbourne “dry
hotels are giving a good account of
themselves. The old Victoria Palacq,
Little Coll ins-street, which recently got
in mnrp rsnitnl tn pYtfMirl its. nremises
in more capital to extend its premises,
paid 9 p.c. last year as against 8 p.c.
the year before and an average of 11
p.c. for the seven years before that. The
other one, Chevron, on St. Kilda-road,
began business in October, 1934, and
paid 4 p.c. in 1935, followed by 6 p.c.
and then 7 p.c. last year, when the profit
was equal to 13.8 pc. on capital. How
Barlogan will turn out remains to be
seen, as with all new ventures. Its entry
into the field will put more of an
edge on competition. Still, it intends
to place service to patrons in the fore-
ground, and, given good management
and an efficient stair, and subject to
economic developments, its prospects
of developing into a dividend payer are
satisfactory.
A X[ L Q n b ° ard R ; r F -
A. F. Fullard, P. G. Tait and F. O.
Foster. Two others are to be appointed.
Asam Kumbang Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Floated in 1916, lowly-capitalised
Asam Kumbang has proved one of the
most successful of the Austral Malay tin
ventures. The property is at Taiping.
Perak, F.M.S. The wash is mostly easy-
dredging, free from clay and large
boulders, but containing a deal of sunken
timber. Adequate water is available, ex-
cept in drought conditions. At Dec. 31
last 295 acres remained to be dredged,
Yardage is not indicated, but the figure
is somewhere around 11 million c.y.,
the grade being 0.661 b. Working to
capacity, that is something like five years’
work for the electric-powered dredge,
reconstructed in 1933 to dig in excess of
200,000 c.y. monthly. With the exception
of the last term, recoveries have been
consistently ahead of bore values,
Thanks to purchase of quotas from
associated cos. divs. in the worst years
of slump never fell below 2s. a share.
Over the last decade the average has been
2s. 9d. a share. Results for the past
three years:
,
Dec., Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
1935 .. £3 , 6>834 £22>665£14 169 2/10 - 2/6 £12(500
1936.. 02,999 40,411 22,5584/6 3/6 17,500
1937.. 86,162 51,615 34,547 6/10 4/6 22,500'
* lncluding £3729^1937, 19 £ 5 679i 2639: I!>3 °’
. , \ ,
Owing to enhanced metal prices, last term s
earnings, after providing for depreciation
™ d a >' outgoing, ran to 6s lOd. a share
Shareholders got 22} p.c the balance of
s * elbn ?. . resources to
472,350. A turthei Is. 6d. a share went
ou ' ln anl ; lal - v as '
The yeai s turnover was a record, 55.4
acre s being covered.
c , ublo ,So s,s”“bo s,sw,too
Recover} - t. 0.„ tons .. 289.3 444.5 450.0
J } v - c-y - > pound .. o.os 0.44 0.43
Assay, p.c. .. .. 72 72 72
Working costs, c.y. . . 3.42 and, 2.90 and. 2.85 and.
AV met 3 al I “° n Un 217/17/6 £2OO/5/3 £240/18/-
c ,
lbe low Percentage of recovery to bore
values was due to slime dumps left by
previous miners being met, which, com-
bined with dry conditions, rendered
saving of the finer tin portions difficult.
The problem is by no means easy to
solve J but these conditions prevail over
onl y a small portion of the property.
Production for the first half of the
current term has been 170 tons t.o. from
1,119,000 c.y., a recovery of only 0.321 b.
per c.y., and the estimated mine surplus
for the period is down to £2BOO. The
plant is still in both slimy and low-grade
wash.
Liquids at £72,350 include a holding
of 12,500 shares in Austral New Zealand
Mining, on which 7s. a share was out-
standing at balance date. Difficulties in
obtaining delivery of steel have both held
up equipping the property and added to
the cost, and more funds are likely to
be needed to bring the proposition to
production.
The co. is assessed at 552 tons t.o.
annually. Capital is £IOO,OOO in £1
shares, for which the market bids 325.
apiece without attracting sellers.
Twelve months ago Mataki Junction
Gold Dredging (M.L.), which has failed to
approach anywhere near prospectus an-
ticipations, forecast a working surplus for
the year to June last of £BSOO. Progres-
sive returns indicate a figure of £7249,
despite reduction in average working
costs from 3.69 and. to 3.1 and.; 942,000 (up
62,000) c.y. was turned over for 25990 z.
fine gold, the average recovery being
1.32 gr. Burma Malay owns 11 p.c. of
the 400,000 shares, issued and paid to
2s. 6d. each. Last (and first) div. was
5 p.c. (=£2500) in Dec., 1937.
* * * *
Cuthbert’s Misima (Papua) has been
crushing at the rate of 32,500 tons
annually over the six months to June,
compared with a throughput of 26,100
tons in the preceding 12 months. Re-
coveries, however, have fallen from
525. Id. to 475. 9d. a ton, owing to lower
silver content of the ore:
Ore, ( ; —Recoveries Costs, Net Divs.,
Dee.. Tons. Gold. Silver. Ton. Profit. Share.
1936* 21,707 5.96dwt. 17.51dwt. 20/6 £26,794 1/6
1937 26,119 5.67 „ 16.39 „ 21/4 33,684 2/~
1938 f 16,254 5.90 „ 11.72 „
* 144 months, f Six months to June.
Thanks to increased throughput, which
should also mean some reduction in
costs, prospects are that the current
term’s profits will be a bit better than
last year’s. An interim Is. a share was
sent out in June. Last term a total of
2s. a share was disbursed, and better
should be possible when the plant
reaches its rated capacity of 40,000' tons
annually. To hasten this, a second
haulage tunnel is being cut in the
southern section of the mine, where
proved and probable oxidised reserves,
apart from the sulphides, were estimated
at over 300,000 tons in Dec., with a
similar quantity, not yet developed, in-
dicated in the northern sector.
$ $ $ $
The two months’ labor hold-up to-
wards the close of accounts spoilt re-
sults for Lancefield, the Beria (W.A.)
producer, for the year to June 30,
throughput slipping 15,726 tons. There
was also a fall in average recoveries,
though this was partly offset by cost-
savings:—
Year Oi-e. Value, Working Net r
June, Tons. Ton. Costs.* Surplus.f.Jßhai'e. Amt.
1936.. 106,218 24/6 £114,624 1/- £50,000
1937.. 122,858 51/- 23/2 125,247 2/- 100,000
1938.. 107,132 45/10 22/- 127,609{ 1/9 87,500
* Excluding development. + Before taxes.
% On working account only.
According to monthly returns, the gold
yield was £245,557, of which working,
expenditure took £117,948, leaving a mine
surplus of £127,609. The figure is sub-
ject to development, depreciation (to-
gether £40,058 in 1937), general over-
head and taxes. Two divs.—ls. 3d. a
share in Sept, and 6d. in April—called
for £87,500. Another 6d. is payable on
Sept. 28. Ore above No. 13 level
should keep the mill going till early
1939. Costs may prove difficult to
restrain when the management com-
mences, by means of its new incline
shaft, tackling ore below No. 13 level,
where there are doubts as to how the
ore-bodies will behave. Last term
£38,996 went out on capital account.
There is a million-ton stack of tailings
awaiting re-treatment.
* * * *
The May crushing of 2355 tons,
brought Hill 50’s tally over the last 12
months to 24,960 tons, and the gold yield
to 73380 z. (worth £53,379, or 425. 9d.
a ton), an average recovery of s.9dwt.
In February mining and treatment, in-
cluding 2s. Id. a ton for development,
was taking 275. sd. a ton. On that basis
the working surplus would be around
£19,300. A maiden 6d. a share (= £6250)
went out in January last. At 3s. 6d. a
share market valuation of the show is
£43,750. Twelve months ago proved and
probable reserves, grade 6dwt., were
about three years’ mill-feed at current
rate of treatment. Hopes are that further
large lenses of ore will be met on the
northern and western sectors of the main
workings, and that the lodes go down —a
Government borehole in 1930 is said to
have struck pay-ore at 400 ft.
* * * *
Commonwealth Mining and Finance
and others interested in Yellowdine
(W.A.) are rejoicing. Anew lode 10ft.
wide and assaying loz. a ton has been
uncovered on the surface 350 ft. west of
the main shaft. At 44ft. down in a
prospecting shaft values range from
15dwt. to an ounce over a width of from
Bft. to 10ft. In another prospecting
shaft, 30ft. down, similar width and
values are reported. The discovery is
hailed by the management as the most
important since the original find four
years ago. Recently a borehole from the
main workings passed through 2jOz. ore
at a depth of 240 ft. Yellowdine has just
declared a div. of Is. 3d. per share from
profits for the year ended Nov. 30, 1937,
together with 9d. per share from earnings
for the current term. This means that
the holding cos. will receive £36,214 Com-
monwealth Mining and Finance, £14,485
Anglo-Australian Gold Development,
£13,243 Gt. Boulder Mining and Finance,
and £14,485 Gold Fields Australian De-
velopment.
* « * $ *
Anglo-Australian Development, the
first of the De Bernales Westralian gold-
mining floats, has abandoned several
duds, and, according to the chairman
(ex-Gov. Campion), is now concentrat-
ing attention on its investments—a fifth
interest in Yellowdine Investments and
a ninth share in Comet, the star producers
of the De Bernales group in the West.
A reduction of capital is under considera-
tion, but nothing is to be done in this
direction until “a proper valuation has
been made of Yellowdine and Comet
holdings.” Anglo-Australian was formed
in London early in 1933 to acquire the
Beryl at Phillips River, the Apex at
Marble Bar and the Day Dawn at Cue.
Later the Wheel of Fortune at Lennon-
ville, King of Creation at Laverton and
Leonora at Leonora were added to the
list. Later still Beryl was formed into a
separate co., and Anglo-Australian re-
ceived £20,000 cash and 400,000 £1 shares
as purchase consideration. Still later the
Yellowdine and Comet interests were
secured. The Apex, Day Dawn, Wheel
of Fortune and Leonora were recently
handed back to the Crown.
V __ H* »!*
Toward the end of last year Yellow-
dine Gold Options (W.A.) ceased opera-
tions after exhausting its own funds and a
£3OOO Government loan. It later re-
opened the mine and resumed ore treat-
ment. Now it has appealed to the Gov-
ernment for a further £ISOO, and those
on the register are asked for another
penny per share, and are promised that
if Government aid is not forthcoming the
penny will be refunded. The co. says it
would then have no alternative but to
give the undertaker a job.
* * * *
Swan Bitter (W.A.) announces that,
unless the new mine it has optioned
proves a disappointing geological freak,
more regular divs. will shortly be put
into shareholders pockets. Out of last
year’s earnings from the old mine, the
co. distributed £5279. At April 30 invest-
ments stood at £505, cash £B4l. Bullion
in suspense was estimated to be worth
£1691. A profit of nearly £2OOO was
earned in May.
* * * *
Consolidated Gold Interests, N.L., and
Golden Gate, N.L., late of Cracow
(Q.), have jointly taken an option over
a block on the same line of country as,
and within half a mile of, the rich Blue
Bird at Norseman (W.A.). If the option
is exercised the vendors are to receive
£BOOO plus a 10 p.c. interest in any co.
formed to go on. It is a Tattersall’s-
sweep-ticket sort of venture.
•i*
Bigger returns from recently enlarged
plants, and increasing contributions from
new mills and batteries, State and
proprietary, continue to send West-
ralia’s gold-production up. The yield
for the first half of 1938 was
555,538 fine ounces, or 71,740 ounces
more than for the corresponding period
of 1937, and the best half-year’s
return for a couple of decades. Youanmi
is the latest addition to the list of large
producers. Treatment capacity is about
10,000 tons a month.


SMOKE-OH!
“The final shot shows him staggering across
the desert after water.” — Film review.
What! Staggering after water?.
•J* •J*
“Bridegroom and wedding guest hurt in re-
ception fracas at Carlton (Vic.).”
Trying to see who was the best man?
-I- 4° 4- 4*
“A singer’s throat becomes hot; he goes into
cold air; and, before he knows what has hap-
pened, he has caught a chill and cannot sin
for a fortnight. It is no laughing matter.”
— “S. M. Herald” reporting Richard Tauber.
And not only for a singer, either.
4 1 4* 4 1 4 1
“More than 300 schoolchildren took part in
planting a three-mile avenue of trees at Kerang
(Vic.).”
Something for them to cut down when
they grow up to be councillors!
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“A married man has far more overhead ex-
pense than a single man.” — Weekly journal.
His wife’s permanent waves, for in-
stance.
4 1 4* 4* 4*
“Strictly speaking, most wives are the real
heads of their homes.” — Woman’s paper.
Strictly speaking is the secret.
4 1 4* 4 1 4*
“He told his wife that he would not have
Mrs. Flowers near the house.”
—Evidence in divorce.
By request, no Flowers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He held the opinion that the husband should
control the household purse.”
— Woman’s paper.
Ah, well, there’s very little in that!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He said that, as a member of the electric
light supply staff, he was overworked.” — “Sun.”
Paradoxically although his job was
light it was heavy.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Doctor’s wife made kiosk a flourishing
business.” — Woman’s paper.
No doubt when there are sandwiches
her husband helps with the cutting up.
"Turn it over, Joe — you're too crimson slow."
“There are signs among the ruins that Pompeii
was in the midst of a drunken orgy when the
end came.” — Church magazine.
—Church magazine.
The last daze of Pompeii.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She became so weary of living with her
father that she married the first man who pro-
posed to her.” — Biographical item.
Evidently she went off pop.
“ This'll be the second time this Week
We've had to book him."
Just Theory!
“I see here,” remarked the Visitor
from Mars, “that the nations of your
world are spending something like £5OOO
a minute on armaments.”
“I believe that’s correct,” admitted his
host.
“But I noticed in another column that
none of the nations really wants to go
to war.”
“That’s certainly right.”
“Then what is to stop them doing away
with their armaments and living at peace
with one another?”
“Each is afraid that the others will not
do the same, so they are all really arm-
ing with the idea of keeping the peace,
by force if necessary.”
“And I suppose heavy armaments
must lead to peace and not war?”
“Well, it’s never worked out that way
before. This time, of course, things will
be different.”
“I see,” confessed the Visitor from
Mars.
Cloon.
News of the Day.
Yesterday was the coldest day since
somewhen and rain is needed in dry
places and a hit-and-run motorist con-
tinued on after having knocked a man
down and the Eskimo wrestler Blubber
Icicle has arrived to challenge Mexican
champion Manhole y da El Reys and a
Rebel warship fired two torpedoes at a
British fishing smack and a Chinese bat-
talion threatens entire Japanese forces
north of Ha-Ha-Ho and this is a
good month to plant out seedlings and
Paris says hats will be worn lower off the
neck and little Betty Bubsie is awarded a
pink certificate.
Hanko.
“During a bombardment I remember diving
into a perfume shop for refuge.”
— Spanish-war story.
Evidently trouble was scented.
«g«
“Panic in Ice-cream Works.”
The manager must have heard that the
new blonde had a melting glance.
+ + 4*
“It would be extremely difficult to hold-up
an air-liner.” — ‘‘S. M. Herald.”
And still more difficult to conceal it
in an air-pocket.
4* 4* 4 1
“The Socialist leader asserted one of the
policemen struck his wife on the jaw.”
—American paper.
Looking for the cause of the trouble,
doubtless.
4* 4* 4* 4*
It’s wonderful the way an ash blonde
can light a burning passion!
4* 4* 4 1 4*
Be Your Own Mechanic!
IV. — Valve Grinding, Etc.
Having decarbonised the cylinders, it
would be opportune at this stage to go
ahead with grinding-in the valves. This is
a job at which the amateur mechanic in-
variably boggles ; yet, approached in a
commonsense way, it need offer no seri-
ous obstacles.
The average owner-driver may be pre-
sumed to have sufficient knowledge of
the fundamentals of the combustion en-
engine to be aware that the crankshaft
is connected with all the cylinders, and
that the turning of the crank-handle will
therefore have the effect of pushing the
valves up and down. Applying this
knowledge to the valve-grinding problem
he may well ask himself, why the neces-
sity for the tedious grinding-in of one
valve at a time by the old deadly-slow
hand process when by a little turning of
the crankshaft he can do them all at
once? There can be only one answer.
Should the car be, say, an 8-cyl. model
there will be 16 valves to be ground in.
Doing one at a time and working week-
ends only it would take the ordinary mug
about six months, which means that he
would do in half his registration, insur-
ance, etc., in cold blood. Don’t be a
fool!
To do it by what may appropriately be
termed the “crank” method simply lift
each valve with the valve-lifter and pour
about half a breakfast cup full or,
alternatively, a whole breakfast cup half-
full —of valve-grinding paste around the
edges. Then go around to the front,
insert the crankffiandle and give between
30 and 31 full turns, sharply. This will
cause the valves to be joggled up and
down in the paste, thus efficiently grind-
ing them in.
Next examine each valve carefully
through a microscope. Should they be
found to be chewed about or not fitting
flush it will be proof that either you lost
count of the turns or that something else
has gone wrong. Getting the children to
chant the numbers of turns in chorus is
a good idea.
Take out those valves that have been
imperfectly ground. This can be done by
removing the cotter-pin from the valve-
spring. Then roll the valve by the stem
around on a sloping piece of smooth
ground, keeping your ear close to it to
detect any bumps. Then take something
flat and heavy such as a tyre-lever and
belt the side of the valve opposite the
dent. This will, or should, by a reflex
action true it up. It should be hit with
delicacy and precision, however, other-
wise you may put another dent in it. Tq
that case it will be necessary to take the
dents out with coarse sandpaper, a some-
what exacting task.
After having satisfied yourself that the
valves are all right, remove the paste from
the valve-ports. Some mechanics favor
wiping it off with a clean rag, but this is
not recommended. Use steel wool. By
this means not only can the parts be given
a mirror-like finish, but the paste can thus
be saved for further use —economy is the
watchword of every good mechanic. Sit-
ting before the fire on winter evenings
and poking the bits of paste out of the
steel-wool with a skewer: could any
mechanical-minded man conceive of a
more fascinating pastime?
By the time you have finished with the
valves it will in all probability be just
on dark, and you will have the option
of either running the car into the garage
or leaving it out all night ready for
resumption of work in the morning.
Should you not wish to risk the weather
it will then depend on whether you have
a slope to, or away from, the garage:
only about 1 p.c. of garages possess
level runways. Remember that your
car will naturally have no motive power.
If the slope is into the garage it will
be a mere matter of releasing the brake
and coasting into the garage over all
the tools and things you have forgotten
to pick up. If, on the other hand, the
slope is away from the garage you will
have to push the car in.
For this the wife’s assistance will be
necessary. Get her to take the wheel
while you prepare to put your weight
against the rear bumper-bar. When she
releases the brake before you tell her
you are ready and you leap aside —if you
are quick on your feet —just in time to
avoid being run down, do what you
should have done in the first place—
throw a bag over the parts lying about
and leave the car where it is.
Some men are very particular not to
let rain get into open parts of the engine
such as the cylinders, but this is carrying
fussiness too far. Actually, a good
swill out with rainwater is an excellent
cleanser, and is certainly more beneficial
to the delicate mechanism than hosing
it out Should heavy rain fall overnight,
soak up any water that is left lying in
the cylinders with a sponge and dry out
with a blowlamp.
S. W. K.
The Kid Comes Back.
“No longer do modern mothers croon the
baby to sleep; that is a job for the radio now.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
“Hush-a-bye, baby, here’s station Bo
Peep,
Presenting Bing Bangley to croon you to
sleep.
The kid howled in anger and gurgled
some curses,
Yelling, “To hell with your ready-made
nurses !”
Then, grabbing his bottle, the cherub and
pet
Let fly at the voice in the radio set.
McM.
Cleaned Up.
She thought: “I’d. love to marry him —
He’s such a tidy man !
He’d keep the home in perfect trim;
He’d make things spic and span!”
When past had gone the wedding day,
She learnt how love can err:
He kept things clean, but, sad to say,
He wiped the floor with her !
T. W. N.


Safeguard your Funds
When on Travel
When on travel it is not safe to carry ordinary
money, but it is safe, and convenient, to take
National Bank Travellers’ Cheques. They may
be changed into local currency on shipboard,
at hotels, main shops, and Banks at all ports
of call. 1 ravellers’ Cheques are available in
denominations of £2, £5 and £ 10. When larger
amounts are required, the traveller should take
a National Bank Circular Letter of Credit.
Further information with regard to finance,
hookings, passports, and tax clearances may be
obtained from any, Branch of the Bank.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia
(Incorpd. in Victoria )
48/12/37
Business, Rollery, Etc.
From Underwriting to “Housing”
The Bulletin has in the past found it
interesting to publish information and
comment concerning company flotations
with which the name of Edward Morris
Davies, of Sydney, was associated. Back
in the days before the slump Mr. Davies
was managing-director of a concern
called Metropolitan Underwriters, which
in turn was associated with other flota-
tions, including, at the beginning, that of
Automobile and General Finance.
Automobile and General Finance has
not been a financial success. Some capi-
tal has been written off (it was heavily
loaded with £46,001 of share-selling exes,
to start with), and average div. over the
past 10 years has been under 3 p.c.
Metropolitan Underwriters (A/asia)
was formed in 1927 to take over a co.
of similar name started in 1925. “The
first public-subscribed underwriting co.
established in the Southern Hemisphere!”
was the banner the float carried ; it also
carried a load of vendors’ shares —20,000
£1 fully-paids were asked for, in return
for which the new co. got (1) contracts,
(2) office lease and furniture, (3) records
and goodwill, (4) “services to be ren-
dered.” The Bulletin observed at the
time that “the sophisticated investor will
require more information than is con-
tained in the prospectus.” He might
also have asked for more assets.
Perhaps, in the words of the Man
from Gundagai, that’s all past and dead
and gone. All right. Time marches on.
We come down to June, 1929, and find
Edward M. Davies and three others on
the board of Australian-made Motor
Cars and Aeroplanes, Ltd. The pro-
moters got no share or cash considera-
tion, and all they asked the public for
was half a million pounds. The co. went
broke in 1933 —liabilities £4106, cash in
hand £94. In Equity Court proceedings,
during which a number of workmen
claimed that they had taken shares on the
promise of a job (it was during the
slump), it was revealed that Edward-M.
Davies and three other directors had for-
mally applied for 500 shares each, but had
paid nothing on them. The C.J. put their
names on the list of contributories for
the full amount.
Then came the gold boom, Lasseter’s
lost “reef,” and —Scientific Gold Explora-
tions, Ltd. Edward M. Davies was a
director and moving spirit. Scientific
Gold’s expedition, according to its pros-
pectus (“draft —for private circulation
only”), started off with “eleven (11) defi-
nite objectives, all of which are gold-bear-
ing.” The directors had information
enabling them “to definitely point” to
Lasseter’s reef, even if that had to split
an infinitive in doing so. There were
50,000 2s. shares to be allotted to the
“vendor,” E. M. Davies, and the co.’s
staff, “contingent upon discovery.” The
Bulletin doesn’t know what has become
“They say she's rollin' in money. Cot an ini'rest in a dawg Wot run second at the tin-ares.
of Scientific Gold, but it does know that
Lasseter’s lost “reef” continues to wriggle
about and to lose itself more completely
than ever.
In February, 1936, Caro Court, Ltd.,
was floated; Edward M. Davies was one
of, the three directors. The co. proposed
erecting a block of flats at the corner of
Miller and Blue streets, North Sydney,
and was said to have gone to allotment on,
the “allocation” of 40,000 £1 shares. The
public was originally offered 70,000
shares ; a later prospectus, dated May 7,
said the subscription list would be
closed when 50,000 shares were taken up.
Promoters’ consideration, according to
the prospectus, was confined to £2650,
“being cost of option over the land.”
When The Bulletin, m criticism of the
co.’s scheme, mentioned that the directors
stake in the show wasn’t clear, it was
E. M. Davies who, as “managing
director,” wrote in and, among other
things, said that this comment was “In-
comprehensible except for its vindictive-
ness. Except for the Glorification of
the Directors or to create inducement to
purchase, no decent firm or company
would publicly disclose the holding of
the Directors.” Also, “More often than
not the holdings of Directors are not
always compatible with their usefulness
on the Directorate.” Mr. Davies might
really have written a book about it.
In spite of everything, including the
“allocation” of 40,000 shares, Caro
Court, Ltd., had a distressing experience.
At the end of 1936 there were only 4477
shares actually allotted (£3928 paid up),
irrespective of how many were “allo-
cated,” according to a ropable share-
holder who brought in a balance sheet
carrying the co.’s name to The Bulletin.
This document was dated Dec. 31, 1936,
and it showed “building expenses” at
£5457 —mostly architects’ fees. Forma-
tion exes, were £2185, preliminary exes.
£440, and, among other items, cash
amounted to £7OB. Creditors figured
at £4931, including £350 for directors’
fees. The balance-sheet total was £8869,
but the block of flats wasn’t in it.
The prospectus of Modern Housing,
Ltd., was issued in Dec., 1937; Edward
M. Davies was a director, Caro Court,
Ltd., the promoter. Objects of co.: “To
purchase land and erect modern flats and
dwellings,” etc. Nominal capital was
£100,000; 50,000 7 p.c. cum. par. prefs.
were offered to the public, and 26,000
ords. were held for application by “the
various firms supplying material and
services 55
To Caro Court, Ltd., 10,000 shares
were to be allotted for
the benefit of inquiries, negotiations, pre-
liminary arrangements and information and
services made, had and rendered for the
benefit of the co. before incorporation.
Also, “in compliance with the provisions
of the Companies’ Act, 1936,” it was
mentioned:
The directors are interested in the pro-
motion of the co. to the extent that they
are directors of and shareholders in Caro
Court, Ltd., and that they conceived the
idea of the co. and on behalf of Caro
Court, Ltd., have carried out preliminary
work to satisfy themselves of the practica-
bility of the scheme.
“Practicability of the scheme” being
assured, the prospectus of Modern Hous-
ing went out. The pref. shares were the
only ones offered for cash, so their
“preference” prospects at this stage were
more legal than actual. However, they
were “backed by the soundest security
(land and buildings),” and would have
a net asset value equivalent to the amount
invested, plus the increase in value of
property and building immediately after
erection and usually accepted at the same
rate of profit as that taken by large-scale
manufacturers on articles produced, viz.,
20 p.c. Such increase added to the value
of the property would give an initial net
tangible asset value of at least £1 4s. lor
every £1 invested.
That was a new idea in investment
analysis. Here’s another. No options
had been taken over any properties
because
The taking up of an option prior to pur-
chasing prevents the achievements of the
same advantageous results which accrue
when prompt payment makes better bar-
gaining for lower prices.
Shareholders in Caro Court had the
proposition placed before them “unhesi-
tatingly, not only as a good investment
but one in which you will benefit.” An
intriguing phrase, raising as it does the
question of what good investments there
are whereby you don’t benefit.
According to a Caro Court circular,
Caro Court’s holding will equal three
shares in Modern Housing to every
two shares held in Caro Court, and there-
fore any profit in Modern Housing will be
II times greater to Caro Court share-
holders
Your assistance and co-operation can be
be:,t shown by taking up a shareholding or
by making a list of your friends, acquaint-
ances and others who are in a position to
take shares in an assured investment.
Quick realisation will come from your
immediate action.
But “slow realisation” had already come
to one Caro Court shareholder ; he didn’t
take shares in Modern Housing, Ltd.
Trend of the Dow-Jones New York
share-price index was upward at the
beginning of last week, and the astonish-
ing stability established for more than
a month now was maintained. Trade in
the U.S.A. is still stagnant, but invest-
ment trusts in Britain and the U.S.A.
have started replenishing their portfolios
with American securities. Hartley
Withers is chairman of one new trust
now buying. Certainly these stocks are
better buying than they were a year ago.
The lift in the Dow-Jones index last
week to above 144 mainly influenced in-
dustrial shares in the Commonwealth.
Metal prices have been rather against
Barriers.
Associated Pulp and Paper ords., to
which attention was drawn here a fort-
night ago when the scrip was fetching
18s. 10d., sold at 21s. 9d., 225. 3d., 235.,
245. and 235. last week. Production is
due to commence at the end of August,
and the co. hasn’t sought any tariff pro-
tection, the sponsors from the beginning
believing that the product would stand
on its own economic feet. The co.’s
Burnie works aim to produce paper such
as The Bulletin is printed on, and fine
writings ; plant is being increased from
15,000 tons to 22,500 tons capacity
annually.
:\i % ?}:
Kandos Cement 165.-paids at 275.
last week were at their highest point
in years, but still not overpriced in
relation to Australian Cement £1 shares
at 335. 3d. Kandos shares have an in-
terest in the operating co. on a pound-
for-pound capital basis p.c. greater
than A.C. scrip, and “to celebrate the
25th anniversary of the Kandos works”
a Vt p.c. bonus is being paid from the
increased profit for 1937-38.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Drug Houses shares lifted to 265., the best
price for several months. They are an inter-
esting proposition, whether Boots come here
or not.
Ords. in H. B. Dickie, the towel-makers, lifted
to a record price of 28s. A promising little
concern, this, if things continue to go its way.
Gordon and Gotch ords. lifted to 545. 3d.,
another case of a good stock being appreci-
ated by investors.


Cumberland and Australasian
Paper.
At 275; Cumberland Paper ords.
yield 6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis ;
the better-backed Australasian
Paper ords. return 5.3 p.c. Both
cos. own shares in Australian Paper
Manufacturers, which is making
good profits out of its brown-paper
and cardboard mills.
Patents.
PRIMER VALVE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
18466/34 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassei
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Seeds for Sale.
C"* LIMBING TOMATO (Imported). Amazing
introduction. Climbs to 20ft. on trellis
fence, netting. BEARS THROUGHOUT THF
YEAR. Yields TWO BUSHELS, large
x 24in.), red, meaty Tomatoes per nlant'
AMAZINGLY PRODUCTIVE. SOW NOW
Government tested seed, 2/6 packet, posted
Sole Distributors, N.S.W. Seed Co., 17a Pitt
Street (Circular Quay), Sydney.
TIME holds til' Key to
Old Court Cellars
Sl
<r:wi
P
8s
fi
kS
And now Releases this . .
Older and Better Whisky !
(Aged in Oak from 8 to 12 years)
TT’S a great whisky. Greater today than ever.
Passing years have brought to Old Court First
Quality the velvet smoothness of ageing which identifies
the perfect blend of time-ripened vattiugs.
Forget the price. Forget that you save by drinking this
older and better Old Court. Judge by quality alone
and you’ll quickly realise why many men who could
afford to pay much more call for Old Court birst
Quality.
You’ll know it by the altered label.
Old Court
FIRST QUALITY
m
ct
Q
c.
uav
urt
au
OISTIUIO l iUHMO
FEDERAL DISTILLERIES PTH"
AUSTRALIA
OUNCES
FlU'O
CONTINTS
AUSTRALIA'S
OLDEST, FINEST, SMOOTHEST WHISKY
Valued at the sterling price of £7 an
ounce, Britain’s gold, held in the Bank
of England vaults and by the Exchange
Equalisation Fund, was valued on March
31 last at £835,000,000, a rise of
£18,000,000 compared with six months
earlier. The hoard works out at around
120,000,000 fine ounces. Here are details,
with comparisons:
(In Millions of Fine Ounces.)
Mar. 31, Sept. 30, Mar. 31,
1938. 1937. 1937.
Exchange account . . 42.5 39.9 26.7
Bank of England .. 76.8 76.8 73,8
Total 119.3 116,7 100.5
When Britain left the gold standard in
1931 its monetary stocks of the metal
were under 40,000,0000 z.
j * % * *4:
During the year to June 30 Golden
Plateau (Cracow, Q.) milled something
like 57,000 tons of ore for approximately
26,0000 z. of gold, average 9dwt. In the
preceding term it put through 48,453
tons for 25,833 fine oz., and showed a
net profit of £155,663. Earnings for
1937-38, by reason of lower grade and
higher throughput, should be more like
£140,000. Divs. of 3s. per share a year
call for £126,000. Shareholders hope
that the ore-reserve position will be clari-
fied in the annual report, and the scrip
has firmed to 13s.
Interest in Golden Plateau last week
was stimulated by reports of develop-
ment in No. 3 (444 ft.) level, the deepest
in the mine. In a drive in the vicinity
of where No. 3 shoot was met with on
the two higher levels, 24ft. of driving
recently showed lldwt. values, and later
28ft. averaged 17dwt. over the width of
the drive (6ft.). Considering the depth,
it appears an encouraging development.
* * * *
In B. 8/6/’3B it was said that the
sharemarket’s response to the claims for
values going 6.835. a yard in Hill End
Alluvials’ property (N.S.W.) seemed to
be “Get ’em!” . Sluicing, it was also
mentioned, should soon give an inkling
of the position. Last week the show’s
backers shareholders in Oriomo Ex-
plorations and Minerals Exploration,
which cos. have a 50-50 interest in the
Hill End co. —got a sharp disappoint-
ment. A sluicing return from 38,000
c.y. gave not ' more than 200 oz
than a shilling a yard. Costs had been
in the first place estimated at I.Bs. a
yard. Hill End Alluvials has now “sus-
pended work pending further check-
samplings,” and Oriomo and Minerals
Exploration scrip has slumped—Oriomo
from 3s. Id. to Is. 9d., Minerals from
Bs. to 4s.
* * * *
Meggitt fully-paids have lifted to above
335. 9d., the highest figure for some
months. The co. has long been ham-
pered by the fact that its output of
linseed meal, sheep-nuts and other stock
foods is limited to the demand for
linseed oil, since the meal can’t be turned
out without also making the oil. In an
attempt to overcome this problem the
co. is now marketing sheep-nuts con-
taining other types of food mixed with
linseed meal. It is hoped that all de-
mands for sheep-nuts will now be met.
In the past it has sometimes been dif-
ficult to maintain the supply. The co.’s
balance-sheet should soon be out.
* * * *
Deposits in Australian savings-banks
at May 31 totalled £235,955,000
£93,000 less than the April figure, but
otherwise a record compared with all
previous periods. The people haven’t
forgotten previous hard times—l93l, for
instance, when their savings deposits fell
to £193,375,000.
Though British holders of German and
Austrian bonds to the amount of roughly
£40,000,000 sterling are accepting a
lower rate of interest, this was antici-
pated, and the loans have since appre-
ciated on ’Change. The loans affected
and the reductions are as follows:
Dawes Loan (£16,553,900), interest re-
duced from 7 p.c. to 5 p.c.; Young Loan
(£11,174,300), interest reduced from 5£
p.c. to 4| p.c.; Saarbrucken. City Loan
(£780,000), interest reduced from 6 p.c. to
4£ p.c.; Austrian 1930 Loan (£2,885,400),
interest reduced from 7 p.c. to 5 p.c.
Germany has promised to pay interest
on Austrian guaranteed bonds held in
Britain.
When Lang was in power in N.S.W.
the whole list of Australian industrial
investments was depressed. When he
was dismissed by Governor Game, and
had lost the ensuing election, there was
an all-round recovery in confidence and
prices. In the U.S.A. Franklin Roose-
velt is President, and his New Deal
Government has met with bitter oppo-
sition from many manufacturing and fin-
ancial interests. One result of his policy
has been too-high wages, which have
stifled the export trades and increased
unemployment. The States are now in
the depths of another depression,
whether long-term or short-term remains
to be seen. Nevertheless, despite Roose-
velt, the U.S.A. in the long-run must
emerge from its troubles as a still-great
industrial country. But the long-run
may be too long for some investors.
♦ * * *
The movement afoot to get a “home-
consumption price” for Australian tin,
concerning which this page gave advance
information on June 15, has attained a
political status. H. L. Anthony, the new
M.H.R. for Richmond, is backing it;
his electorate takes in a large portion
of the northern N. S. Wales sluicing
areas! “While tin remains at a price
of around £2OO a ton employment is
given in the Emmaville, Torington,
Stanham and Tingha districts, but when
it fell to £l5O recently there was con-
siderable unemployment.” So Mr.
Anthony proposes something similar to
the butter-equalisation scheme. This
page repeats its opinion that schemes of
the kind are better left alone in the
mining game. Tin has averaged more
than £2OO a ton in the past 20 years,
and by reason of limited disposition of
the metal throughout the world it is likely
to average a fair price in the future.
* * * *
A problem Sydney retailers generally
are facing is told in this table of percent-
age increases in the sales, wages and
number of employees of the larger stores
in the city. The percentage increases are
over the same months of 1937:
Percentages of Increases (+).
Number of
1938. Sales. Wages. Employees.
Jan +3.7 +13.2 +5.2
Feb. .. .. +8.9 +13.1 +5.1
Mar +5.9 +13.3 +4.6
Apr +1.4 +14.4 +4.7
For the whole of 1937, sales rose 7.7 p.c.
over 1936, while wages lifted 10.4 p.c.
The average rises for the first quarter of
1938 have been sales 6.2 p.c., wages 13.2
p.c. Though sales have to cover other
costs besides wages (stock, for instance),
and a small percentage increase in actual
money value of sales may be much
higher than a large percentage rise in
wages, the present trend isn’t quite satis-
factory from a retailers point of view,
especially if national insurance costs are
going to be added to the burden.
* * * *
Progressive goldmining returns:
Fiji.
Av.,
Tons. Oz. Dwt.
Emperor (30 weeks) —
16/12/ ’37 to 13 /7/’3B ..89,329 26,670 6.00
Loloma (41 weeks) —
13/9/’37 to 13/7/’3B .. 18,036 22,149 24.60
Mt. Kasi (28 weeks)—
1/1 / ’3B to 13 /7 / ’3B ..20,359 4,391 4.30
Westraua.
Wiluna (3 months) —
l/4/’3B to 30/6/’3B ..150,125 27,319 3.64


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Communism’s Trojan Horse.
[Though Stanley High, author of this article con-
densed from the “Saturday Evening Post” (9/7/’3B),
deals particularly with Communism in U.S.A., his
remarks on Communist policy, including its shift of
direction since 1935, apply wherever the Russian cult
has any footing. In Australia and Maoriland there has
been the same recent somersault which he describes,
and well-meaning people have been taken in.]
In personal appearance, the members of the Com-
munist Party in the United States still tend to be
picturesquely proletarian. At present they are some-
what more that way than usual. The current party
me is anti-Japanese, and female Communists, as a
result, wear cotton hose.
Political activities, however, are a different matter,
since word came from Moscow three years ago to
wash up and go respectable.
The occasion of this reversal was the Seventh
Congress of the Communist International
which met in Moscow in midsummer, 1935. There had
been no previous Congress since 1928. In the inter-
vening seven years the revolution did not appear the
party did not notably flourish. By 1935 it was clear
that the Communists had missed the boat. But Com-
munism had missed the boat before. And in regard
to the revolution, the Communists keep an elastic
calendar. But the international situation was some-
thing to worry about. Russia’s enemies were growing
in power and her friends in lukewarmness. The
League of Nations, in which Soviet diplomacy had
put its trust, was a breaking reed. At the Seventh
Congress, therefore, it was not the status of the Com-
munist Party that was the first concern of Moscow
but the security of the Communist fatherland.
How Moscow expected every Communist, hence-
forth, to do his duty was outlined in an all-day speech
by Georgi Dimitrov, head of the Communist Inter-
national, who laid down what has since become known
as the Trojan-horse policy.” “We must utilise Fas-
cist mass organisations,” he said, “as the Trojan
horse. Whoever does not understand such tactics or
finds them degrading is a babbler and no revolution-
ary.”
The results have been all that Comrade Dimitrov
could have desired. For the three years since then,
Communism has been as harmless and wise as the
dove and the serpent. The revolution may be no
nearer. But thanks to the Trojan horse, Communist
influence in the United States has reached an all-time
high. Moscow is still concerned about the security
of the fatherland. But that is no fault of the party.
The party, thanks again to the Trojan horse, has be-
come the highly effective, though officially unrecog-
nised, instrument of the foreign policy of the Soviet
Union.
The party’s propaganda output is enormous. It
maintains ten daily newspapers in the United States,
and some twenty weekly and semi-weekly publica-
tions. But it is in pamphleteering that the Communists
really spread themselves.
It is not likely that one of these publishing ven-
tures is self-supporting. The party is said to raise
approximately $lOO,OOO by special levies every year
for the support of “The Daily Worker.” That still
leaves the nine other dailies, the weekly and monthly
publications, and the pamphlet literature to be ac-
counted for. Just how Moscow manages to cover
up its tracks in the accounts is a mystery. But out-
side the party it is generally agreed that the tracks
must be there.
Moscow’s hand in the party’s control is less
indistinct. Of discussion there is no end, but on
policy there is no debate whatever; no opposition
group and no minority reports. None would be
tolerated. Policies are made in Moscow and are,
therefore, beyond dispute.
Only a party whose policies were made a long
way from home would have been called upon to
make such a reversal as has now been made. The
direction of the party’s hates and affections had
to be entirely changed; the list of its bogeys and of
the panaceas in which it put its trust completely re-
vised.
Formerly the Communists spurned to associate
their class struggle with the forces of democracy. Now
they look upon democracy as the only bulwark against
Fascism, and themselves as its most effective defenders.
Formerly, the Communist gospel on war had been
peace at any price. Now that the party line calls for
collective action among the democracies against the
Fascist states, party spokesmen assail the pacifists.
The policy of the Trojan horse, as Dimitrov out-
lined it, called for the “penetration” of every organi-
sation which, on the one hand, might put Com-
munists in places of party advantage and influence,
and which, on the other hand, might be useful in
Russia’s projected mobilisation of world opinion. The
latter purpose has been helped along considerably by
the general sympathies of the American people.
Russia’s three most powerful enemies, as the Soviets
list them, are Germany, Italy and Japan. Their recent
international behavior has given aid and comfort to
the Communist effort to establish in the United States
The People’s Front Against Fascism. The People’s
Front is still, largely, a selling phrase. But the propa-
ganda back of it has succeeded so well that the so-
called liberals in the United States, and organisations
of the left and the slightly left, some church groups,
peace organisations, women’s societies, welfare organi-
sations and many labor unions have been persuaded
that there is a Fascist uniform in every conservative’s
wardrobe and a Fascist conspiracy back of every effort
to defeat or modify what the liberals believe to be
their programme. This has not only put Fascism
on the spot. It has helped to get Communism off the
spot. Attacks on Communism, however well justified,
are promptly labelled as Fascist. For fear of that
label, the liberal manages to swallow or to minimize
developments in Russia of a sort which he would
roundly condemn in Germany or Japan-.
By no means all of the anti-Fascist sentiment
in the United States is of Communist origin. But the
process by which the Communists have turned Fascism
to account is an indication of what a single-minded
minority can achieve.
But the party’s most successful efforts are not
direct. The Communist is at his best when he
operates through organisations not ostensibly Com-
munistic. For example, the American League for
Peace and Democracy—formerly the League Against
War and Fascism —is not officially Communist. But
it began with friends of the party. Its meetings make
a place for Communist speakers, and Communist book
stores circulate its literature. Since the League has a
substantial following among students, and claims to
represent some 4,000,000 members of labor and left-
wing farm organisations, the advantages of this tie-up
are obvious. The Communists also have a close rela-
tionship with the American Friends of the Soviet
Union, the authentically non-Communist Friends of
the Chinese People, the North American Friends of
Spanish Democracy. They have a very large stake in
the Friends of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade, an
extraordinary organisation largely staffed by wounded
American veterans of the Spanish war and the widows
of those who have been killed. There are said to be
2500 Americans still fighting with the loyalist armies.
One fourth of them are card-carrying Communists.
Also “penetration” has given the Communists an
inside tie-up with Labor unions and alliances,
farmers organisations, student unions and the like all
over the country.
With so many formidable irons in the fire, it is
small wonder that the party’s tenth annual convention
in New York, at the end of May, was announced as
an occasion for special jubilation.
In the United States, at least, Comrade Dimitrov’s
Trojan horse has proved to be no ordinary animal.
The American Red has ridden it a long way already.
Germany Bags the Stork.
[ln the article here condensed London “Sunday Times” '
Berlin correspondent (3/7/’3B) shows how Germany is
succeeding in encouraging what would also be for Aus-
tralia the best sort of “immigrant.”]
Germany has scored a great success in its cam-
paign against the declining birthrate. Dowries given
by the State have proved the most valuable help in
raising the birthrate from its lowest level of 971,000'
in 1933’ to 1,275,000 in 1937. Authorities are con-
vinced that they will succeed in further raising the
rate, especially in Austria.
The “dowry system” introduced by Hitler is only
one of a whole series of measures designed to make
Germans realise that the “future of Germany is in
the hands of its children.” It provides that every girl
who holds a job will be granted a loan up to £BO
if she relinquishes her job on marriage. Part of the
loan is paid in cash, but most of it is in notes en-
abling the young couple to buy furniture and house-
hold equipment.
According to the Secretary of State in the Finance
Ministry, Herr Fritz Reinhardt, 925,445 “dowry
loans” were issued between August, 1933, and this
spring. This means ihat close on one million young
women made place for others seeking employment
and went in for the profession of hausfrau. After the
birth of the first child the loan is substantially reduced ;
and if the couple have four children within ten years
they need not repay the loan at all. To date, 774,120
babies have been born to couples who started wedded
life with a State loan. The average loan amounted to
£4O.
Every forty pounds loaned proved an excellent
investment for the Government. Two birds are killed
with one stone —unemployment is reduced and the
birthrate raised.
As part and parcel of the same policy, the Govern-
ment imposes heavy bachelor taxes. An. unmarried
man with an income of £250 a year pays an income
tax of £36, while the married man pays only £l7.
The bachelor with an income of £BOO must pay £l6O,
and his married colleague pays only £IOO. Moreover,
for every child the married man gets a tax rebate.
If the family can boast of five children its income
tax is nil.
Steps have been taken by the Government to
help families with low incomes to raise their children.
If they earn less than £640 a year they can claim a
bonus of 16s. a month for the third child and £l s l2s.
for the fourth child until the children are sixteen
years of age.
Towns and villages, in deference to Government
propaganda, have sought ways and means of en-
couraging large families. In Dessau, for instance, the
municipal councillors ruled that families with five
children need pay only eleven months’ rent; the town
authorities would pay the twelfth month.
Daily new propaganda ideas and economic
measures are being devised to help Germany “become
a virile young nation that will be eternal,” according
to the word of its Fiihrer.
“Empire Migration is Urgent.”
(Condensed from Manchester “Guardian.”)
Fears that the declining birthrate will prevent
Britain from adequately populating her Dominions are
expressed in the report of the Overseas Settlement
Board.
The board—appointed in February, 1936, to
advise the Dominions Secretary on migration within
the Empire—urges that Britain must, without loss of
time, supply Dominion immigrants while it is still
able. The report states, however, that “it is only
from the point of view of the strengthening of the
Empire as a whole that the encouragement of migra-
tion from the United Kingdom can be justified.”
In Great Britain, owing to the birthrate decline
(from about 1,100,000 in 1920 to less than 700,000 in
1933), the population is growing older, and unless the
trend is reversed there will be almost immediately a
decline in the numbers of the population at the
younger working ages and therefore of those available
for migration. The Dominions generally also show a
rapidly-falling birthrate, although there has recently
been a slight recovery, and they have among them the
lowest deathrates in the world, so that their popula-
tion, too, is steadily ageing.
The seriousness of the situation is obvious, from
the point of view, not only of the so'cial and economic
life of the community, but also from the point of
view of defence ; and if the United Kingdom cannot
supply settlers in sufficient numbers to provide all
the additional population for which the circumstances
of the Dominions call, the admission of a carefully-
regulated flow of foreign immigrants of assimilable
types, preferably from those countries whose inhabi-
tants are sprung originally from the same stock as
ourselves and who share our outlook in many direc-
tions, has much to commend it.
This problem of strengthening the Empire by
means of migration is considered by the board to be
both difficult and urgent. The Dominions are described
as relatively thinly populated areas facing a highly-
competitive world, and the board urges action “with-
out loss of time,”
“Migration should not be dealt with as a matter
of bargaining; it should not be directly related to the
question of increased markets for Dominion produce,
nor it is possible to set off the introduction of
migrants against the introduction of a given amount
of capital. Opportunities for the investment of capital
from the United Kingdom must be created as
the result of the policy of the Dominion Govern-
ments themselves.”
Every possible care should be taken to avoid
giving the least cause for any apprehension on the
part of labor in the Dominions that standards of
living are being endangered. There should be an
interchange of views between organised labor in
Britain and the Dominions.
Financial assistance for migration should not be
given, save in very exceptional circumstances to
schemes of land settlement and development. Reliance
should be placed primarily upon infiltration by the
“nomination” system, whereby persons are nominated
by individuals or approved organisations overseas for
the grant of assisted passages. Facilities for the migra-
tion of single women are especially important.
The effect of the development of social insurance
schemes in the United Kingdom in reducing the desire
to migrate is of the utmost importance, and it is desir-
able that everything possible should be done to reduce
the existing disparity in this matter as between Britain
and the Dominions.
The immediate problem of restarting migration
requires a considerable measure of Government sup-
port, but no large stream of migration can be looked
Horror, Plus Sex.
Addressing the Advertising Convention in
C. J. Rose, president of the Incorporated Advertising
Managers’ Association, let loose a broadside at the
distortion of news, the surfeit of sensationalism, the
parade of horror and the exaltation of sex in sections
of the press.
Mr. Bose, whose remarks gain equal force for
Australia from recent publications here, speaks, of
course, from the advertising viewpoint, but his state-
ment holds general interest:—
“The terrific fight for circulation in Fleet-street
has encouraged editors to look for a major news break
every day, and, since such things do not occur natu-
rally, to attempt to create them from the news avail-
able.
“Overdramatised headlines, sensational stories
and the use of horror pictures such as the British press
has never dared or desired to print in the past —all
these alien importations are in constant use in a cease-
less endeavor to maintain the circulation-winning repu-
tations of certain national publications for sailing closer
to the wind of decent public opinion than has ever
been done before.
“Photographs of the dead, pictured in the most
horrible and gruesome circumstances, are becoming
common, and when the privacy of death is violated
we are down to rock-bottom in sensationalism.
“Owing to the exaltation of sex, parents all over
the country are reconsidering the papers they take.
“The fact is that for a penny a day you can now
buy the nudes and the rudes, the pictures and the
patter that used to cost anything up to a guinea a time
in the Charing Cross-road.
“Apparently certain papers have adopted this
horror and sex angle as a policy. That is their business.
“We advertisers are entitled to ask whether we
are the gainers or the losers. Since more than 80
per cent, of advertised goods are bought by women,
and very largely by women in the home, it is very
much our concern that some publishers appear to
be determined to create a new type of paper which
must be read outside the house because it cannot be
left lying about in the home.
“1 shall be accused of having ‘attacked’ the press.
We do not want to attack anyone. We do not want
to see a press censorship, despite the fact that the
press imposes one on us. What we do want is a fair
field and no favor; a decent market in which to dis-
play our wares, and a reading public that is allowed
the time and the atmosphere in which to examine our
claims.”


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: IS Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
RUBEROID AGENTS
are equipped to give you a complete roofing
and flooring service —to quote you for any
type of Ruberoid Roof and to undertake the
work promptly and efficiently.
RU B E RO I D ROOFI NG
EVERWEAR
FLOORING
Permanent floor covering in
three finishes: Red, Grey,
Mica. Guaranteed waterproof
and unaffected by white ants.
Can be laid on any floor
surface, and is specially suit-
able for verandahs, bath-
rooms and passages.
Representative :
Mr. G. L. Wilms, Box 368755, Sydney, N.S.W.
/Agents:
BRISBANE: Asphalte.s & Allied Products, Ltd., P.O. Box
I 139 p. John Reid & Nephews, P.O. Box 198 c.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
PERTH : Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE: A. W. Sandford & Co., Ltd., P.O. Box 418 c.
MELBOURNE: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., 384-96,
Little Collins Street.
SYDNEY: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., Box 3302 pp.
for except on a free and spontaneous movement of
population taking place in response to the natural
economic attractions of overseas countries. To facili-
tate this movement the board attaches importance to
the introduction of schemes of general reduced passage
rates.
The encouragement of visits of representative
workers to the Dominions and organised visits by
school children and teachers are commended ; and it
is urged that increased knowledge of the Dominions
should be promoted in Britain by means of films, and
greater prominence should be given to the Empire
in the curricula of schools.
Canada’s Defence Lag.
[As pointed out jn a Bulletin leader of July 20.
and further indicated by an “Uncabled Additions”
digest in the same issue, John Bull and his Dominions
were in a staggering state of unpreparedness at the very
time our bloodthirsty former pacifists and other crusaders
were yelling their loudest for war. The lag is as yet far
from being overcome, though Britain and to some
extent Australia and Maoriland are making up the
deficiency as fast as money can do it. How Canada
stood at the time the war urgers were at their loudest
and how that Dominion still stands M. A. Earle Kelly
• describes in the article here condensed from the “National
Review.”]
Three years ago Canada was spending five
shillings per head per year on defence—less than half
what was being expended on postage stamps. The
Motherland’s per capita contribution was thirty times
as much. Canada’s permanent active militia consisted
ol 3000 officers and men. Four destroyers were no
greater, in gross tonnage, than a tramp steamer.
Naval forces comprised 88 officers and 781 ratings,
sea and land ’planes numbered 156, wiA a force of
103 officers and 600 men.
Ever since President Roosevelt’s blunt declara-
tion, We shall defend our neighborhood,” it has
become an article of faith among thoughtful Ameri-
cans that Canada’s undefended coastline was to be
part of the burden of American defence of the future.
Congressmen and Senators have given tongue to this
new policy. The whole of the American Fleet has
been based in the Pacific for three years and is at
the moment carrying out war manoeuvres in the
newly-accepted sphere of vulnerability, which is
bounded by a line drawn south from the western tip
of the Aleutian Islands to Samoa. This sphere includes
the coast of British Columbia. Even among a large
volume of Canadian opinion, the fact that the United
States will defend Canada from attack has been
tacitly accepted. . More than one supporter of Mr.
Mackenzie King’s Government has expressed this
belief as a reason for not embarking on large expen-
diture. The Isolationist group, at the moment,
numbers hundreds of thousands.
The Professor of English at the University of
Saskatchewan, addressing a meeting of Communist
students of the University, said the British Empire
was not worth fighting for. The Dean of Arts at the
University of Alberta declared that Canada should
consult Washington rather than London in matters
of defence policy—“frank conferences at Washing-
ton, rather than fiddling with someone in London.”
“Committed to make no commitments” is a
phrase that has been widely used by editorial writers
in interpreting Mr. Mackenzie King’s attitude toward
Empire defence at the last Imperial Conference. At a
time when the Motherland is undertaking new sacri-
fices, shared in every home in the United Kingdom, to
meet the increased cost of defence, the appropriation in
Canada is less than that of last year. Criticism of
this trend to avoid sharing the United Kingdom’s
burden is growing from Atlantic to Pacific. It is un-
favorably commented on in American newspapers.
The example of Australia and New Zealand in voting
largely increased sums for preparedness is held up to
the Canadian Government and its supporters.
The Conservative party, authors of the Empire
trade agreements, under which Canada benefited to a
greater extent, relatively, than any other part of the
Empire, did not oppose the present policy. In fact,
they condoned it by their silence. Nevertheless, there
is evidence of a desire to emulate the sacrifices borne
by the British race. Significant is the new attitude
of Quebec, as interpreted by Mr. Lapointe, the official
spokesman for French Canada. He solemnly coun-
selled his fellow-Canadians to be prepared. “We must
see to it,” he said, “that we shall be able to defend
the women and children of our country, should these
madmen, in a moment of impulse, try to attack us.”
Admitting Canada’s favored geographical position—
“we thank God for it,” he said —Mr. Lapointe quoted
the example of the United States, a country com-
mitted to neutrality, yet rearming rapidly. Canada
should not, in his opinion, expend a cent or a life in
a war begotten of the conflict of Communism and
Fascism, “but, if international thieves or gangsters
ever come to Canada’s shores, we cannot meet them
with a declaration of neutrality.”
Naval defence looms largely in the discussion of
means for protection of Canada’s Pacific coast. The
current defence vote makes special provision for
coastal air services, but, while duly acknowledging its
value, one is not convinced that it will be an effective
substitute for a naval force. The requirements of the
tactical situation in the Pacific enhance the problem
for Great Britain, especially as it will not be prac-
ticable to detach substantial units from the Atlantic,
Mediterranean or Home Fleet for service in the
Pacific. Realising this, thoughtful minds in Canada
are reviving the proposals of Lord Jellicoe, which are
being freshly canvassed, after a lapse of 15 years.
The Jellicoe Programme, which included the Singa-
pore base, comprehended a prospective outlay of
£300,000,000, distributed between the Mother Country,
Canada, Australia, New Zealand and India. Canada’s
share was £60,000,000. Subsequently, non-aggression
pacts gave rise to hopes that the Jellicoe plan might
not be necessary. Time does not confirm this belief.
Great Britain finds herself to-day faced with the
need for a huge programme of preparedness, which
thousands of Canadians affirm should be shared by
the senior Dominion. *
Japan’s Asian Leadership.
o Condensed from a Singapore “Straits Times ” article
reprinted in July “World Review.”)
Sir Cecil Clementi recently made a remarkable
prophecy. “When the present warfare is over,” he
said, “it is probable that solidarity will arise between
China and Japan, particularly in their foreign politics.
If so, the cry of ‘Asia for the Asiatics’ will grow more
and more vehement. All this adds point to the need
for a British base at Singapore that shall be impreg-
nable against every kind of attack. And in addition
there must be naval and military co-operation between
Britain, France (with her vast Indo-China interests),
America (with the Philippines), and the Netherlands
(with her Indies). When that is achieved, no pan-
Asiatic Power will dare challenge the Far Eastern
rights of Western civilisation.”
Sir Cecil knows the modern history of China as
well as any living man, but it would be interesting to
know what characteristics of the Chinese people or
forces in their political life led Sir Cecil to predict
such an astonishing reversal of the present state of
feeling. Much more likely is it that the relations
between China and Japan will follow the Franco-
German parallel, and that just as Alsace-Lorraine in
1871 led directly to the war of 1914, so is Japan sow-
ing seeds in China to-day which may yield a grim
harvest of war in the future.
There is, however, another and more concrete
reason for questioning Sir Cecil dementi’s prediction
of a challenge to Western rights by a pan-Asian
Power. Five years ago that was a possibility, and if
Japan had pursued a peaceful course it might have
become more than a possibility, but if Sir Cecil were
to return to the East to-day he would find that the
echoes of Japanese bombs and artillery have been
heard far beyond the borders of China.
Let us take only one example. In a town in
central Java, air-raid precautions are being organised,
and wholehearted co-operation is being given by the
Javanese administration. Two years ago the possi-
bility of bombs falling in the interior of Java would
have seemed so unreal and remote that it would have
been very difficult to arouse the slightest interest in
gas-masks and dugouts, but since then the Javanese
vernacular newspapers have reported the activities
of Japanese bombers in China. The Javanese people
now realise that what has happened to civilians in
China might happen in Java.
This is typical of reactions to the China war all
over south-eastern Asia. Japan is no longer admired
but feared by Asiatic races.
How different from the reputation of Japan before
the war started! The prestige of Japan at that time
was great, and steadily growing, among the nationalist
elements in all Asiatic countries. In Netherlands
India the nationalists admired Japan for the manner
in which she had proved that industrial technique
and modern armaments need not be a Western
monopoly. In the Malay States young rajahs were
going from every State to visit Japan and were com-
ing back profoundly impressed by what they had
seen of the progress of an Asiatic people. In Siam
the influence of Japan was exceedingly strong in the
regime which followed the overthrow of the princes.
In the Philippines the independence party looked to
Japan rather than to America for help in the develop-
ment of the future republic. In India the prestige of
Japan was very high, both as leader of the resurgent
East against the dominant West and as a model for
India in the industrialisation of an Eastern civilisation.
Now the pan-Asian ideal (which was beginning to
be visibly manifest three years ago) has been blown
away. Pan-Asia may yet be a reality. It remains a
historical possibility; but it can have no focus other
than Japan, and the Asiatic peoples, having seen the
fate of China, fear the future policy of Japan much
more than they fear the colonial rule of Western
Powers.
An Admiral on Ship Bombing.
[Franco's disclaimer of deliberate intention in the
sinking in Spanish waters of ships flying the British
flag—22 sunk or damaged by bombing inside a month —
has been “referred back to drawer,” Mr. Chamberlain
stating that it “is not possible to reconcile it with the
facts as known in particular cases.” The outcome is
therefore in the future: meanwhile, London “Times”
publishes this (condensed) letter on the law of the
matter as interpreted by Vice-Admiral E. A. Taylor.]
Throughout the Spanish civil war the British
Government has faithfully carried out non-interven-
tion. Belligerent rights have not been recognised, and,
therefore, any interference by either side in the Spanish
struggle with British shipping on the high seas is an
act for which there is no justification. But action
taken by either side within the territorial waters of
Spain is entirely different.
Apart from what was laid down in the Territorial
Waters Jurisdiction Act of 1878, the convention relat-
ing to international air navigation of 1919 further laid
down that every State has complete and exclusive
sovereignty in the air space above its territory and
territorial waters. Hence territorial waters can be
considered to have the same national sovereign status
as the nation’s territory itself.
That being so, when ships enter the territorial
waters of Spain they are entering Spain itself, they
are in the area of Spanish hostilities, and can only
do so at their own risk.
The granting or withholding of belligerent rights,
which give to nations at war the right of search of
all merchant ships and subsequent capture if carrying
contraband, etc., does not affect the sovereign status
of territorial waters.
In the Spanish civil war the territorial waters of
one side is enemy territory to the other, and either
side can, therefore, take such military action in these
territorial waters as it pleases, since the waters have
the same status as Spanish territory itself.
There are no international agreements governing
the use of aircraft against merchant shipping in time
of war, and those who imagine that this method of
warfare will not be used in any future war are living
in a fool’s paradise.
British ships can, of course, trade with either side
in the Spanish struggle, but the Government has
repeatedly warned them that they do so at their own
risk, and if we were to take military action in order
to defend these ships in territorial waters we would
not only be directly intervening in the war, but would
be committing an act of war itself.
I maintain that if ships are damaged while they
are within Spanish territorial waters, however much
we deplore the loss of British lives, the ships cannot
expect either protection by our Fleet or the receipt
of compensation for loss of life or ship.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
It has been a very dull winter for
racing people in Sydney. Kensington,
one of the former pony courses, had the
Saturday fixture last week. Though prize-
money had been increased a bit, the
quality of the cattle racing was poor.
But a day which seemed to have strayed
from spring swelled the attendance, and
officials and shareholders could be seen
rubbing their hands and beaming—sure
indications that the meeting would show
a profit.
Alan Verde, “the Ascot champion,”
made it evident that he is not only useful
at the course of that name by defeating
Assai, Flamari and four others in the
Bunnerong Mile. Ridden by an appren-
tice, Joe Adderley, Alan Verde started
at fours. Masterpiece squeezed most of
the runners going out of the straight, and
then set up a big lead. But when tackled
by Alan Verde he stopped, as did Black
Fern. Hope galloped sourly throughout.
Though he never looked better, he has
been a failure since the summer.
Alan Verde is a chestnut gelding by
The Verderer. So is Blinky Bill, who
won the Kensington Handicap at 5 to 2.
Blinky Bill made all the running. Three
furlongs from home his rider, Neale, shot
him away, and in a twinkling he was six
lengths ahead of the second horse, Jovial
Son. Jovial Son quit, and it was re-
served for Greek Tress and Televise to
fill the places. The favorite, Monogram,
plodded into fourth position. He seemed
troubled by the turns.
The first division of the Flying Welter
looked a match between Moonray and
Misnomer; but the latter had a bad
position at the barrier, and kept
lugging out. Fan Tan and Diatter
made the pace a cracker. That suited
Moonray, whose rider had a good hold
of him until the Leger was reached;
then Moonray had to be ridden out to
beat Diatter, who will be all the better
for the run. Moonray started at 2 to 1.
He has won two races for “Mrs. L.
Lawrie,” who lives at Manly.
Heroic Faith squibbed it in the second
division. He had much the best of the
start, and led to the home turn, but
when challenged by Roginer, owned by
Miss Arthur, he turned it up ; The Freak
was third, four lengths away. Roginer,
who is only a little thing, was backed
at 2 to 1. Heroic Faith’s price was 5
to 4 on.
Horsedealer Christey was present to see
his colors carried to victory in the Trial
Stakes by Not So Bad (9 to 2). Kept to
the rails, Not So Bad forged ahead in the
straight and just beat Procure and Wattle
Day; head, half-head was the judge’s
verdict. Wattle Day dwelt at the bar-
rier, and then had to race on the outside.
There were 15 runners in the 14.2
Handicap—the biggest field and the best
betting race of the day. Neupac, from
Orange, was a hot favorite, but failed to
run out 5\ furlongs. Rovina (20 to 1)
beat Brereton and Conasau in an exciting
finish.
* * * *
Buzalong is expected to prove himself
one of the best handicap horses in Syd-
ney during the spring—up to a mile and
“three,” anyway. He may even reach
the w.f.a. class. On Thursday, ridden
by Darby Munro, Buzalong won the
Grafton Cup in smashing style. The
distance was a mile and a quarter and
100 yards, and Buzalong, who was favor-
ite at 9 to 4 and carried top weight,
Bst. 131 b., cut the race record to 2min.
10 l-ssec. Behind him were two other
Queensland-bred horses, Jocular and
Spear bleu (though Jocular is now trained
in Sydney for one of the luckless Cooper
brothers), Brown Force and nine others.
* * * *
Bristol, The Bulletin’s 100-to-l tip
for the last Melbourne Cup, is now one
of the favorites for the next. The prophet
will be a prey to conflicting emotions if
it turns out that he did his picking a
year too soon.
* * * *
Ajax has been showing lameness on
the track at Caulfield. There seems
nothing organically wrong, but the
veteran Musgrave is worried. On the
other hand, Avenger is galloping at
Epsom as if there had never been any-
thing wrong with him. Nuffield is gener-
ally his companion, and the winter
favorite for the Derby is a bit the
smarter at sprinting.
* * * *
The Redan course, where the Ballarat
Miners’ Turf Club holds its fixtures, is
just on the outskirts of the city. A big
mound of tailings at the back once hid
competitors from the view of stewards,
and suspicion arose that things happened
there which oughtn’t to have taken place.
The mound was removed some years ago.
Eddie O’Brien, the paddock fielder,
won the Redan Handicap at Ballarat
last Wednesday with Kagawa, an East-
ern Monarch gelding that he recently
bought. Favorite at evens, Kagawa had
little difficulty in defeating Sir Grey
(formerly raced by A. G. Hunter, his
breeder) and Lothario, the latter trained
by Harry Freedman at Mentone. Potuna,.
winner of the Novice Handicap at Bal-
larat, is by Eastern Monarch from Gun-
room, a George Frederick mare that was
found useful when trained by Charley
Cooper, who retired from the saddle after
landing the Newmarket Handicap on
Queen o’ Scots and the Australian Cup
on The Parisian. Apropos, Gunroom’s
half-brother Chumree ran second to
Kentle in the V.R.C. Grand National
Hurdle of 1928. Chumree belonged to
H. W. Torr, the trainer of Koke King,
an Australian Hurdle aspirant.
* * * *
Pony gallopers, as such, are approach-
ing the point of utter disappearance in
Victoria. The law requires that pro-
grammes at Nar-Nar-Goon, in Gipps-
land, shall contain more pony races than
horse events; only on that condition was
the local club allowed to continue in
existence. On July 19 two horse events,
one of which was run in divisions,
and three pony races were staged at
Nar-Nar-Goon. Four ponies competed
twice; yet the biggest field was three,
only six midget thoroughbreds being
available.
* * * *
Gnair, Montargis, Cueesun, Martext,
Sir Lectern, All Blarney, Bannisher Boy,
Bobken and Hilltop, engaged in the
A. V. Hiskens Steeple at Moonee Valley
next Saturday, are first acceptors for the
Australian Steeple, to be run at Caulfield
a fortnight later. Week-end form ought
to throw light on what used to be known
as the “Four-miler.”
Possibilities are that two young jum-
pers, Giant Killer and Dornford, will
essay to win both the Australian Hurdle
and Steeple. Frank Dummett, his jockey,
is optimistic concerning Giant Killer’s
prospects. Fred Hoysted, owner-trainer
of Dornford, schooled that gelding over
fences some time ago.
* * * H
G. M. Davis, who died at Sale last
Wednesday, was a brother of J. H. Davis,
the V.R.C. handicapper, with whom he
was associated in the ownership of
Fortunatus, a Newmarket Handicap
winner. Their father had Tim Swiveller
going for a big stake ip the Caulfield
Cup of 1893. Chris Moore landed Tim
Swiveller first past the post. The stew-
ards dismissed a protest for interference,
but on appeal to the V.R.C. committee
the race was given to Sainfoin. Through-
out Gippsland G. M. Davis was known
as Dinkum” Davis. He succeeded his
father as a member of the Leg. Council.
Though he lost his sight 14 years ago, he
continued to discharge his Parliamentary
duties.
* * * *
Sorely smitten at the previous week-
end, Melbourne punters had another
disastrous experience at Moonee Valley
last Saturday. Veiled Prophet won a
division of the juvenile event at 11 to 8.
Song of Songs, who landed the Phoenix
Handicap, shared favoritism with Fly-
ing Chief at sixes. And Crojick and
Hathersage had support in their respec-
tive races. But Cape (12 to 1),
Brightello (20 to 1) and Diablote (also
at twenties) enabled the Ring to return
home with bulging bags.
Spirited wagering took place on the
Seafield Trial Hurdle. Fullarton’s mount,
Clanhaven, opened at twos, but receded
to twice those odds when money poured
in for Red Manfred, from Jack Fryer’s
stable, and the Adelaide gelding Celtic
King, who each started at 7 to 2.
Red Manfred was put over hurdles in
M.L., and may make good as a hurdler
on Melbourne courses. He finished third
at the Valley after committing several
blunders. Well beaten then, Celtic King
lost his rider at the last obstacle but one.
North Cape had the race won half a
mile from home, and scored amazingly
by 25 lengths from Clanhaven.
Nine years ago C. Ruwolt carried off a
Newmarket Handicap with St. Ardent.
He owns another potential sprint cham-
pion in Veiled Prophet. This Veilmond
colt left nothing to chance after entering
the straight in the first division of the St.
Mongo Handicap. Minor places were
filled by Kiss Curl (33 to 1) and Sir
Harold (9 to 2). Last-named was ridden
by the crosscountry jockey Frank
Dummett. Harry Gabell prepared St.
Ardent for his Newmarket triumph, but
Ruwolt’s horses now are in the care of
Roy McCormick at Mordialloc.
His particularly handsome appearance
commended Crojick (Siegfried-Top Flier)
when the second division of the juvenile
event came on for decision. Though
Crojick was making his debut he opened
at 3 to 1. Passing out later to sevens,
he started at sto 1. Crojick scored,
running away, from Lord Windburra and
Adherent. At the spring meetings Crojick
should do high credit to Lou Robert-
son, his trainer.
Wakerife came home so strongly in
the Boiardo Steeplechase to deprive Wild-
wood of second place that he will have
to be reckoned with in the Australian
Steeplechase, an event that he won two
years ago. The old Sea Prince gelding
appears to have taken a new lease of life.
Several faulty jumps by Martext, the
favorite, settled his chance. Brightello,
the winner, belongs to J. Abrahams, a
hunting follower, whose colors were car-
ried to victory by Tongalla in the Aus-
tralian Steeple of 1937. Hawkins had
the mount on Brightello, a recruit to the
ranks of ’chasers. Hawkins works in
the stable of Fullarton, who trains Wild-
wood and rode him.
Firming from 12 to 1 to sevens
Hathersage squeezed home by a head
frpm Desert Chief in the Compensation
Handicap, with Maluno less than a length
farther off. Maluno (fives) divided favor-
itism with Cackle, who disappointed, as
also did the well-backed Panopeus.
Hathersage belongs to his breeder,
Mrs. H. E. Crowe, member of a wealthy
Brisbane family. Spearearl, sire of
Hathersage, is by Tinspear (imp.), a
grandson of Carbine. He won a few
races in Melbourne when trained by
“Jerry” Tie, who has charge of Spear-
earl. It was with Tie that Elliot served
his apprenticeship as a jockey.
The horsemanship of Ashley Reed en-
abled Song of Songs (6 to 1) to vanquish
Gaybrooke by the narrowest of margins
in the Phoenix Handicap. Flying Chief,
co-favorite with Song of Songs, was a
close third. Reed had a run of luck on
The Trump last spring. He is likely to
be seen on that horse again on Austra-
lian Steeple day. The Trump has worked
satisfactorily in recent weeks.
Carrarice, beaten on the post by
Silver Bond at Caulfield a week before,
involved his admirers in further heavy
loss by tiring at the finish of the North-
wood Welter and being only third (at
11 to 4) to Diablote (20 to 1) and Grand
Hero (50 to 1). Diablote is raced by his
breeder, A. J. Staughton. y
Footbrawl
Four one-point wins in six V.F.L.
games gave Melbourne football followers
an exciting Saturday, and at the end two
places in “the four” remained very open.
Although downed by Richmond, 20-12
to 12-19, Carlton retains top-ladder place,
four points clear of Footscray. ’Scray
beat Fitzroy, 18-21 to 13-8. Geelong,
staging a late rally, finished a point ahead
of St. Kilda, 14-20 to 15-13. The im-
proving Essendon held a similar lead
over Collingwood, 17-17 to 17-16 ; North
Melbourne had the odd point against
South, 13-18 to 14-11, and Melbourne
beat Hawthorn by the same margin,
9-16 to 10-9. After Carlton and Foot-
scray come Geelong, Richmond, Col-
lingwood and Melbourne, separated only
by percentages ; Essendon is another four
points away.
In the Association series, Brighton was
downed by Oakleigh, 16-18 to 16-11, but
, is still in second place to Brunswick. ’Wick
got home against Camberwell, 18-18 to
12-17. Northcote and Prahran are next
in order; Northcote beat Sandringham,
18-22 to 9-9, and Prahran easily ac-
counted for Coburg, 24-30 to 13-12.
* * * *
Completing a continental tour, via
Broken Hill, the East Fremantle team
gave a capital exhibition of the national
code in defeating N.S.W., 15-14 to 9-11.
The match was played on Sydney Show-
ground, next door to the Union Rugby
international. Without such opposition
it would have drawn thrice the 5000
who actually attended. There has always
been a fair national-code public in Syd-
ney, and with shrewd help from Victoria
it could be materially increased now that
League Rugby is slipping.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Advantage was taken of
the visit of the Westralians to Mel-
bourne to hold the “international” foot-
ball kicking contests with the U.S.A.
which are supposed to take place
annually, an Australian ball and an
American ball being used. Of the Aus-
tralians, Anderson, of Carlton, won with
a 68-yards punt with the Australian ball
and a drop of 62 yards. The best
American-ball punt was yards by-
Cronin, of W.A., Anderson’s best being
55 yards. Americans have now to be
heard from. The Melbourne perform-
ances are not outstanding. The drop
record with an Australian ball is 74
yards by Nudd, of Carlton, in 1877.
Norman Ebsworth, of Sydney, holds the
Rugby-ball record with 69yds. 2ft.
* * * #
“Hotham”: The fame of the amended
Australian Rules as played by the Vic-
torian F.A. is growing. South Australia
sent a specialist, Jim Handley, to watch
them in action; he says he is greatly im-
pressed, especially with the Rugby pass,
and tips that South Australia may adopt
the new ideas shortly. The V.F.L., which
is fighting the innovations for all it is
worth, may have to climb down.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Ceylon, of the spicy
breezes, has renewed its invitation to
Westralia to send a Rugby team across
to play there in October. The Ceylon
Union suggests that a couple of men
.from each of the other States be in-
cluded. South Australia, Victoria and
Queensland have announced that several
good men are willing, but N.S.W. will
not allow any of her spare parts to go.
o Continued on page 33.)
“Shinty”: The Indian hockey team
now touring M.L. will play further
matches in N.S.W. on its way home —
in Crookwell, Goulburn, Mudgee,
Bathurst and Newcastle. The Sydney
governing body has been careful to ex-
plain to these places' that it will not be
responsible for any financial loss.
* * * *
“Blade”: The rowing season in N.S.W.
this year promises to be a welter, since
in the seven months of the season 14
regattas with 83 races will be staged.
Pittwater opens at Bayview on October
3 and the season will close with Uni.'s
show on April 22. Good to see that the
neglected sport of double sculling is to
receive attention. Races are to be staged
at the Police, Nepean and Riverview
regattas.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Rockdale Mile: Tuckiar or Kori-
mako ; .next, Strathisla.
Moorefield Handicap: Plutus or
Tuckiar ; next, Gimme.
Flying Welter: Correct; next,
Cool Spell.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Accountants’ Handicap: Spear-
dale ; next, Brown Baroness.
Bank Holiday Handicap: Blinky
Bill; next, Brazilian.
Welter: Tuckerbox ; next, Oscu-
lum.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Glen Orla Handicap: Keeping
Watch ; next, Desert Chief.
Derrimut Handicap: Petunia
Park ; next, Regular Bachelor.
Sunset Welter: King Gee ; next,
The Egotist.


T ASM A
2.
TECHNICALITIES WITHOUT TEARS, No.
J
Y
V \
K
N^W /
V
r
s
c
d
r
0
v
r
a
L—'
iT
*
o
u
e*
$
u
/I
%
u
32
o
J?
/A
&
u
/g?
U
O
U
o
u
1
1
51
u
THE ’air trimmers illustrated here have
nothing to do with the perfected AIR
TRIMMERS incorporated in every Tasma
Receiver . . . but listen ... it is the exclusive,
dust-proof Tasma Air Trimmer which, in
conjunction with the Ferro-Coil Intermedi-
ates, ensures that your Tasma will play with
the same clarity, the same purity of tone, in
five years’ time as it does the day you buy it.
The Tasma Air Trimmer is not a 4 4 gadget”
... it is an uncannily clever and efficient inven-
tion which enables your Tasma to keep the
accuracy of its factory settings year in and
year out. And remember —the Air Trimmer
is but ONE of Tasma’s eight points of
superiority!
HERE ARE SOME OF THE OTHER FEATURES WHICH ACCOUNT FOR TASMA’S LEADERSHIP
INSTANTANEOUS TUNING: Enabling any one of the 125 Stations indi-
cated on the Tasma dial to be tuned at the flick of a finger and thumb with
hairline accuracy.
EXTENDED TUNING RANGE: Both above and below normal limits, pro-
viding for the addition of new broadcasting stations as they come on the air.
• OVERSIZE DIAL: Twenty inches of
pointer and stations covering the full
Tasma perfectly!
tuning space floodlit brilliantly with
circle. Even a deaf man can tune a
AUTOMATIC VOLUME CONTROL: All A.C. models incorporate Audio
A.V.C., permitting weak stations to be played louder and precluding
annoying variations.
VARIABLE SELECTIVITY: A luxury feature giving full musical volume
and absolute selectivity over any programme you may select.
INBUILT MAGIC EYE: The Magic Eye of the Tasma is built into the dial
to ensure immediate visual indication of exact tuning.
OCTAL VALVES: The new Tasma Receivers are equipped with the new
Octal Valves. If a radio isn’t Octal equipped it isn’t the latest.
?
THE TASMA “PRINCESS"
Described by a leading critic
as “the most outstanding
receivers of their type on
the market.”
-Model “530”—6-valve, dual-
wave A.C. model. 35 guineas.
Model “560”—7-valve, dual-
wave Universal current (A.C.
or D.C.). 39 guineas.
Model “585” Battery
operated s—valve. 35 gns.
Air Cell operated, 37 gns.
Vibrator operated, 40 gns.
??
THE TASMA “DEBUTANTE’'
Meeting the demand for
receivers with full console
chassis, yet with a cabinet
compact enough for table
.Model “535” —6-valve dual-
wave A.C. 27 guineas.
Model “580”— Broadcast 5-
valve, Battery operated. 27
guineas.
Air Cell operated, 29 gns.
Vibrator powered, 32 gns.
Model “585” —5-valve dual-
wave Battery operated. 29
guineas.
Air Cell operated'. 31, gns.
» Vibrator powered, 34 gns.
?
THE TASMA “COUNTESS”
Flawless in technical design
;iud giving a standard of
performance never before
achieved.
Model “525” —6-valve dual-
wave A.C. 31 guineas.
Model “580” 5 - valve
broadcast, Battery operated.
31 guineas.
Air Cell operated, 33 gns.
Vibrator powered, 36 gns.
Prices slightly higher in llV*< Avstmlin.
A PRODUCT OF
THOM & SMITH
PTY., LIMITED.
Z/aJma
SOLD BY ALL
PRINCIPAL
RADIO DEALERS.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
VICTORIA; HARTLEYS, LTD., 270 Flinders
Street, Melbourne.
John Hallway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street,
North. Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors .)
SOUTH AUST.; OLIVER J. NILSEN & CO.,
LTD., 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
DETAIL BUILT RADIO
TASMANIA: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY.,
LTD., 36 Argyle Street, Hobart; and 59
George Street, Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: CARLYLE & CO.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. GRICE, LTD., 90-92
Queen Street, Brisbane; Rockhampton,
Townsville and Cairns.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 197
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane. (Wholesale
Distributors.)
DARLING DOWNS: ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD., Rnkthven Street, Toowoomba.


Instant Ignition
Greater Power
Output
m
i
K
'■JW'
S/- Each.
PVROX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
1/3/37
?
fOfi W£AK M£N AND WOM£N
Loss of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
Sl9 George St., Sydney
m
GLAND
TONIC
TABLETS
INVINCIBLE
MARINE and
INDUSTRIAL
ENGINES,
Stocked in
18 sizes: 3
to 150 k.p.
1-, 2- 4-, 6-,
8- and 12-
?
cylinder Models, Benzine —Kerosene —Crude
oil. 300 Engines always in stock. All
Spare Parts always available. Our low
prices defy all competition.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue To-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS Pty., Limited,
53 North George St., Sydney. Estab. 1906.
FREE !
SEND FOR FREE SAMPLE OF RE-NU
LIQUID NU-METAL. RECONDITIONS
Cars, Trucks, Tractors, Buses, Motor-cycles,
Standing Engines, etc., While-U-Drive. Just
deposit thru Spark Plug Openings on
Pistons, Saves Rebore, Ends Piston Slap,
Rattles, Oil, Petrol Waste, Buying New Parts,
Restores New Compression, Power, Top Speed,
Zip, etc. Guaranteed good for 10,000 miles.
Harmless Finest Engine. Anyone can use it.
Trial Sample, 6/6. We send C.O.D. Re-Nu
Coy., op. Richmond Station, Melbourne.
Twenty other lines. Agents required. Free
samples.
M.Q. and Rafferty
At Rushcutter Bay
What with a Greek wedding on the
Sunday and then the sort of wrestling
the boys turned on on the Monday,
things round about the Bay have been
full of varied beauty.
Contracting parties in the Stadium en-
gagement were Sammy Stein (16st. 21b.)
and Paul Jones (16st. 51b.). Redoubtable
men of the mat, they wrestled two capi-
tal opening rounds, fastening on good
holds, breaking ’em by smart and vigor-
ous methods, and generally making
things nice and willing. Apart from a
bit of punching, a trifle of one lifting
the other high and crashing him to the
canvas, a little scrubbing-board work
with the knuckles in each other’s dials
and suchlike methods, no real dirty work.
In the third Jones got a figure-four scis-
sors hooked round Stein’s middle, a grip in
which a Bulletin joke of some months
ago comes true. According to authority
that won’t be called a liar in these pages,
even the bloke who has the grip applied
can’t undo it, so if it was fastened on
out on the they’d both starve
to death. Be that as it may, there’s only
one thing for the victim to do about it,
and that is to give up instanter.
Stein gave up soon enough, and in the
succeeding two rounds got Jones fairly
hot and bothered by good wrestling,
plus the business known as the flying
tackle. In this the grappler, throwing his
weight against the ropes, uses them to
catapult himself flying horizontal through
the air headfirst as a couple-of-hundred-
pound projectile. He travels at what the
gunners call a low and straight trajec-
tory and at pretty considerable velocity.
His aim is for the other fellow’s middle,
and when he lands dead centre the effect
must be more painful than it is to de-
scribe. More good authority asserts
that it’s well-nigh impossible to dodge
these flying tackles. That might be so,
but from the spectator’s viewpoint it
seems as if the victim gets up and just
blunders in the way of successive tackles
till battered into a fit state for feeding-
time at the Zoo.
This is what was going on when pande-
monium got loose. Jones had been
knocked out through the ropes by a fly-
ing tackle and the ref. was demanding
his immediate return, when Stein came
flying through the air like a 9.2 from the
ropes on the opposite side of the ring
and took the ref. a corker amidships,
knocking him cold down under the press
seats. There in the deep he lay, while
the wrestlers elected to carry on without
him. Into the ring leapt officials, re-
tainers, seconds and others; the men
were dragged apart; the crowd was on
its feet yelling and roaring. Then the
wrestlers being headed for the dressing-
rooms, an all-in brawl got going up
along the passageway. It raged only for
a few minutes before the cops, wading in
according to the very best traditions, got
the parties segregated, but it was a ding-
dong show while it lasted.
Ins and Outs
The county went down badly in the
Australia-Notts match at Trent Bridge.
Confident that it would top the Aus-
tralian score of 243, it could do no
better than 147.
Harris, Knowles and Hardstaff were
early victims. Four were out for 32
when “Young” George Gunn came in.
Gunn is a son of the George Gunn
whose advent to Test cricket sounds like
a radio bedtime story. A sick man who
had not been considered as a possibility
for an Australian tour, he came to this
country as a visitor for his health with
A. O. Jones’s team in 1907-8. Co-opted,
he not only proved a big success in the
Tests—he scored 119 in his first Test
appearance in Sydney—but topped the
batting average for his side in Australia.
In all he played in 11 Tests and averaged
over 42.
The youngster, after a shaky start, gave
an exhibition of hard driving, the while
skipper Heane, Yates and Marshall
flitted by like the summer clouds. Voce
and Gunn raised the score from 7 for
65 to 8 for 145, Gunn being caught by
Bradman off Ward for 75. Voce had
given sterling assistance and had run up
32 before O’Reilly sent him back.
O’Reilly was in good form to take
5-39, his most convincing showing for
some time. Fleetwood-Smith got 3 for
35, but sent down some loose stuff. Ward
and Waite snared a wicket each.
Brown and Badcock opened again for
Australia. This time the luck was better,
for the pair had 121 up before Badcock
went for 54, caught by Jepson off Voce.
Brown reached 63 in good style, and
then Bradman and Hassett took com-
mand. Both defied the bowling, Hassett
in particular playing delightful cricket.
With most of the strike, he passed Brad-
naan’s score and was 67 n.o. at stumps,
his captain being also there with 55 on
the score-book ; 2 for 244.
Australia won the match with unex-
pected ease, finishing 412 runs to the
good. Neither the crowd nor the players
seemed to take much interest in the
event, the locals playing far below form
and the attendances being very poor.
Bradman closed the second innings
with 4 down for 453 after he and Hassett
had gone for 144 and 124 respectively.
Barnes and Chipperfield, who followed,
made as light of the bowling as their
“Alf, We forgot the ammunition !”
predecessors: they were called off when
Barnes had again shaped nicely for 34
and Chipperfield had notched 27. Heane,
2-85, had the best Notts bowling figures.
Notts could muster only 137. Fleet-
wood-Smith mixed some vile stuff with
really good bowling and had all the
batsmen scratching when the good ones
came along. He ended with 5 for 39,
while Ward and O’Reilly took 2 wickets
each. The surprise turn of the match
was Hassett’s appearance at the bowling
crease. He had Keeton caught off his
first ball ;in England, and bowled 7
overs—4 maidens —for a wicket and 4
runs. Only Hardstaff made a decent
showing. He drove hard for 67 ; Harris
made 21 and Gunn 15 —the only double
figures. Barnes again kept cleverly,
stumping Gunn and Marshall.
* * * *
In batting up to the Leeds show,
Bradman led with an aggregate of 2024,
averaging 126.5. This is the third time
running he has topped the two thousand
in England, and Bardsley is the only
other Australian to have turned the trick.
Also, the Notts century brought Brad-
man level with Trumper’s record of 11
on a tour. Brown is second, with 77.47,
and Hassett third with 69.83.
O’Reilly has taken 70 wickets at 16.3
each. F.-Smith is next with 64, costing
16.06 apiece.
* * * *
Rain fell the day before the fourth
Test match began at Headingley. It did
little to affect the pitch—less, probably,
than did a heavy dew. Experts pro-
claimed it an easy batsman’s pitch, and
when Hammond again won the toss the
horn of the Briton was exalted.
The weather was dull at the start, and
the atmosphere heavy. Tykes rolled up
in great numbers and had pretty well
filled the big ground by lunch-time.
Hammond left out Yardley and God-
dard. Bradman decided to play Badcock.
Barnes, as twelfth man, joined Ward,
Walker, Chipperfield and White outside
the fence. Waite was given his first
chance in a Test.
McCormick and Waite opened against
Barnett and Edrich. Easy as the wicket
was supposed to be, the usually confident
Barnett was shaky, and Waite, who was
swinging dangerously, had hard luck
when, early in the piece, the Englishman
was twice dropped—by O’Reilly and
then by Brown—off his bowling. Edrich,
however, was the first to go, being clean
bowled by O’Reilly, who had replaced
Waite, for 12. Hardstaff snicked a four
and was then run out from a smart
return by Hassett. Then Hammond and
O’Reilly began a duel that was an out-
standing feature of the match. At lunch
it was 2 for 62.
Barnett went for 30 soon after lunch-
caught by his namesake off McCormick.
F.-Smith welcomed Paynter to the pitch.
Hammond was now batting at his best,
though, like all the others, he was chary
of O’Reilly. He was going hard for his
century when O’Reilly clean bowled him:
4-76-142.
Paynter had been plodding along, by
no means at ease. He livened up when
Compton joined him, and had reached
28 when F.-Smith coaxed him out of his
crease ; Barnett removed the bails. Comp-
ton soon departed, at O’Reilly’s instiga-
tion, for 14. Six were now out for 171,
and pessimists saw England failing to
reach its first-innings score of 200 four
years ago. Its ranks were recruited when
’keeper Price was caught by McCabe off
O’Reilly for nowt, as they say i’ Head-
ingley. It was time for something
desperate to happen, and it did.
Verity and Wright, bowlers of note
and bats of a sort, became associated.
Both were assisted by Bradman’s
persistence in keeping on the erratic
F.-Smith, and between them added a
badly-needed 41 to England’s score
before they were parted. Wright es-
pecially let fly in carefree fashion. It
ended with F.-Smith having Wright
caught by Fingleton for 22. Bowes
and Fames had a fleeting minute with
three runs and a duck respectively, and
Verity was 25 n.o.
The score-board showed 223. Possibly
the fast-scoring Yardley, with no fears
as to the effect of failure on his career,
would have put a different face on things!
Poor as the total was, wretched catching-
chance after chance was dropped— helped
it. O Reilly s bowling was different.
Going practically all day, O’Reilly fin-
ished with 5 for 66, many of the runs
being fluked off him by the tail-end stand.
F.-Smith ended with 3 for 73, but much
of the stuff he sent up gave everyone but
the batsmen a headache. McCormick,
in an unconvincing mood, took his single
wicket at a cost of 46.
Fingleton and Brown opened for the
Australians against Fames and Bowes.
Brown batted confidently, hitting the ball
with the middle of the bat, and there was
general dismay in the Australian camp
when, after an attractive 22, he missed
a long hop on the leg stump from Wright
and was bowled. With one down for 28
and only a few minutes to go, Brad-
man sent Barnett in, and the Victorian
and Fingleton played keeps till stumps:
one for 32. Thus the cream of the world’s
batsmen took all day to make 255 on a
batsman’s wicket. Either the bowling
was superlative or the cream went sour.
• •••«•
The Australians resumed on Saturday
morning in a jubilant mood. Though
the light was dull, the pitch looked a gift
to batsmen, and there were visions of a
huge score and victory made certain. By
five o’clock all these hopes had crashed.
Fingleton and Barnett were opposed by
Fames and Bowes. Though there was
no fire in the wicket the dead atmosphere
suited the fast bowlers well, and both
batsmen had to watch the swingers atten-
tively. Fingleton was in one of his sticky
moods ; though he got 30 before Verity
bowled him he never played “the gay
cavalier,” as a fellow-pressman puts it.
Barnett, on the other hand, was finding
his feet and showing some of the bat-
ting form we expect from him in Aus-
tralia.
••••••
With the advent of Bradman began a
fine partnership. Barnett was getting in
some delightful off strokes, and his
skipper, though unwontedly careful, was
never in difficulties. When Barnett went,
caught Price off Fames for 57—his best
Test-match score —the situation looked
quite good, considering that McCabe,
Hassett and Badcock had yet to come.
For once McCabe was all at sea.
Fames bowled him for a single. Then
Bowes skittled Badcock for four. Hassett
shaped better till Wright came on;
Wright soon had the Victorian caught by
Hammond in the slips. Bradman had
shown little in the way of fireworks, but
the situation was too grave for these.
Steadily and imperturbably he tacked on
runs, and Waite kept his wicket up. For
a time the light stopped play, and after
resuming Waite was caught off Fames


ISA
BLADE TOO OLD
AT M?
Most razor blades give up long before forty
(shaves) —most fellows don’t complain if a
blade lasts a week. Yet a Wilkinson user
expects and gets about 2-3 months service
from each blade! The reason is that the
Wilkinson Razor uses full hollow ground
blades and mekanized self-stropping this
combination of good steel correctly stropped
makes the Wilkinson the finest shaving in-
strument a man can possess.
RAIOR In
Oak Case
with two
Hol l o w
Cround
Blades
Si,ls/6
In Nickel-
plated Case 19/di
In'Cbrome Case
three II lade s
and Strop. 27/6
'7-0 AY' set
with a blade lor
every day ol the
week - - 37/6
HOLLOW GROUND BLADE
WILKINSON
Made in England by
The Wilkinson Cutlery Co. Ltd.
if Obtainable from all Stores if
(
7
8
a>
mm
i
i r
N
This big Ford V-8 Business Sedan saves you money from the
moment you buy it. Although the lowest-priced sedan in
its class, it has the complete equipment usually associated
only with de luxe cars. De luxe too, is its brilliant perform-
ance, its smooth ease of handling and superlative riding
comfort.
The surprisingly low first cost is reflected in its all-round
operating economy. 23 miles per gallon and more is the
BUSINESS COUPE. Lowest-priced full-size coupe on the market.
Seats five or even six, all inside. Rear seat removes for extra carrying
space additional to big luggage compartment. A special flat floor-
fitting for the rear compartment, to give maximum carrying space, is
optional at lower cost.
usual report from owners. The
Business Sedan is bringing new
standards of economical upkeep
and efficient service to industrial
and commercial users. See this
low-priced, high-quality car at
your local Ford Dealer’s. Drive
it—and check its extra value
features. A Business Coupe and
Business Roadster are also available.
PRICES F.Q.B. FORD PLANT Plus Sales Tax
Business Roadsier - £317
Business Coupe £325
Business Sedan £347
Optional at £24 extra is the Ford-Tasma car
radio. Price includes aerial and installation
at Factory.
iinlillUii
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD, f I NCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) F 272 27V
by Price for three —very useful in the cir-
cumstances, for all the while Bradman
was getting towards his century.
The skipper, after hanging for a long
time in the nineties, reached the hundred
with a sneaked single, and was given an
ovation by the huge Yorkshire crowd.
Louder was the handclapping a few
moments later when Bowes found the
champion’s sticks. Bradman had given
only the ghost of a chance —to the
’keeper—and he has rarely played a
better innings. Bowes and Farnes soon
had the measure of McCormick and
O’Reilly. F.-Smith, missed off his first
ball by the bowler, Farnes, was 2 n. 0.;
the total, 242.
Farnes finished with 4 for 77 and
Bowes with 3 for 78. Of the two Bowes
was probably the more dangerous. Wright
got two good wickets for 38, and, though
Verity took only 1 for 30, he hung all
the batsmen up. Toward the end of the
innings the slow bowlers were getting a
lot of spin on.
After a short delay due to bad light,
Hammond sent in Barnett and Edrich.
They were not long in finding them-
selves. The light improved, with an oc-
casional glimpse of the sun, and the
pitch, after a heavy roller massage, gave
no further trouble. At stumps on Satur-
day night England had totted up 49 runs
without loss: Barnett 20 and Edrich 25
his highest Test score against Australia
to date.
O’Reilly, Waite and McCormick all
had a roll up, and the former twice came
close to getting a wicket. Otherwise the
batsmen were on top, and England was
30 up with 10 wickets in hand.
* * * *
“Aunt Sally”: Perhaps the man who
has had the hardest luck of all those
selected to play for England in the pres-
ent series is the Cambridge-Yorkshire
stumper, Gibbs. The washout prevented
him from making his bow dt Manches-
ter, and a whack on the head in a county
game put him out of the match at
Leeds. It is a long time since an amateur
kept for England in a Test match ; the
last, as far as memory serves, was R. A.
Young, also a Cantab, here with A. O.
Jones in 1907-8.
Footbraw!
In the match against N.S.W. the All-
Blacks had found openings down the
centre, and the Australian team for the
first Test match at Sydney Cricket
Ground on Saturday was chosen with a
view to closing them. Close them it did.
Queenslanders Lewis and Hayes came in
next to the five-eighth ; they tackled hard
and moved up quickly on the All-Black
insides, and they were backed up by the
breakaways. But they did no more than
that; and that wasn’t enough.
The Australians began defensively, and
remained on the defensive. They seemed
anxious only to keep the Maorilanders
quiet. Five-eighth Richards did try to
go through, but Berghan had him cov-
ered, and Richards should have realised
it a lot earlier—he was carrying the ball
too far. The Maoriland half, Saxton,
finding Berghan and the others well held,
looked for opportunities himself.
Richards and half-back Stone did not
tackle as surely as did Lewis and Hayes.
A goal to each side preceded Maori-
land’s first try. Saxton took the ball
round the scrum to send it back to the
forwards. Back it came to the clever
little chap after a forward rush, and he
scored. At “lemons” it was 8-3: that
try converted and a p.g. to a p.g. which
the Victorian Carpenter had kicked.
Afterwards the visitors put on three
more tries. Second five-eighth Sullivan
picked up a dropped pass and sprinted
through for one. The prettiest of them
came when he cross-kicked to the for-
wards after a dash down the wing. The
other was again Saxton’s. The Austra-
lians kicked two more penalty goals. Two
more conversions and another p.g. by the
Blacks made it 24-9.
The Australian forwards, though they
rarely won the ball from scrums, were a
hard-rucking, persistent lot. But the All-
Black pack—always handy and ready
to take advantage of anything loose —
was definitely superior. Rankin was a
success at full-back, and Carpenter did
well on the wing. With Kelaher back
on the other wing, a penetrating half
(Ramalli perhaps) and a centre who can
find openings, the home team would
make the Brisbane Test more interesting.
* H 5 ♦ ajc
Under a pouring sky, and up to the
knees in mud, the All-Blacks ambled
over Western N.S.W. Districts at Welling-
ton by 31-0: 8 tries, 2 converted, and a
penalty. To-day the tourists show at
Newcastle; on Saturday they play
Queensland at Brisbane, and on Wed-
nesday the Darling Downs at Too-
woomba. Then the second Test at Bris-
bane, and after that they are to be
shunted to Canberra.
* - * * *
League Rugby form has been very in-
and-out this year —an indication that it
is not much good. In Sydney N.S.W.
twice beat Queensland. At Brisbane on
Saturday Queensland had its revenge—
-36-22. There were only 9000 present.
* * * *
At Soccer on Brisbane’s Exhibition
Ground N.S.W. and Queensland played
a drab one-all draw.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: The Soccer folk are
to have one match with the Indians on
Sydney Cricket Ground —on Saturday,
September 24. Lest anyone imagine this
is due to the generosity of the Rugby
League, which leases the ground for the
winter months, it is explained that this
dog-in-the-manger crowd has to vacate
the ground before that date, thus en-
abling the trustees to give the Soccerites
a match.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: It is definitely settled that
little Finland will stage the 1940 Olym-
piad. Because of the short time avail-
able for organisation and the limited
opportunities for accommodating visitors,
sports are to be cut down to the mini-
mum of standard events. Australians will
have a long and expensive journey by
way of Britain if it is decided to com-
pete.
* * * *
Australian golf seems to have evolved
a world-beater in the making at last.
Name, Norman von Nida ; place of birth,
Queensland. On Saturday the young
fellow won the open championship of
The Lakes (Sydney) club with rounds of
70, 70, 71 and 66. Ferrier also did a 66,
but finished six strokes worse than the
Queenslander. Cremin, *he Australian
professional champion, though third, was
six strokes behind Ferrier.
“Brassey”: Von Nida is a hard man
to stop when he sets out after a fat purse.
He won the Spalding Purse for profes-
sionals on the N.S.W. club’s course at La
Perouse by 5 strokes after looking a
beaten man half-way through the second
round, when he struck trouble after
trouble. A dogged recovery, coupled
with the fact that his record morning
round of 67 had given him a useful lead,
saved the day.
* * * *
Bobby Locke won the Irish champion-
ship, breaking the course record, for
what that is worth, with a card of 292.
Cotton was a stroke away second and
another Briton, Lee, third with 296. Aus-
tralians Nettlefold and Ryan qualified,
but were well down the course with 318
and 319 respectively.
* * * *
Partnered this time by the Frenchman,
Leseur —she had been playing previously
with Boussus Nancy Wynne shared
another German title. The pair took
the mixed doubles from two alphabetical
nightmares, Mile. Jedrezejowska, of
Poland, and Barworowski, of Germany.
* * * *
“Blade Sight”: The King's Prize at
Bisley was won for the second time by
a Regular, Captain Barlow, of the West
Yorks —he also took the trophy in 1934
—with a total of 287. A feature of the
shoot was the fine showing of a Miss
Ferguson, who, up to the 900 and 1000
yards, looked a likely winner. She had
never shot over the long distance, how-
ever, and faded out.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Three Comrades ”
Robert Taylor, Franchot Tone, Robert Young,
Margaret Sullavan.
A cog must have slipped somewhere in
the motion-picture distributing business,
Here’s the second film depending for its
appeal on authentic dramatic values
screened in Sydney talkie houses within
a week! It’s at the St. James.
Its strength is enhanced by its being
concerned with recent events which seem
of even greater moment now than when
they occurred—the ending of the war and
its immediate aftermath. It may be that
the theme holds a particular appeal for
anyone who took some personal part in
the war, especially as it exploits the
romantic element of wartime comrade-
ship, but the deeper purposes of showing
the tragic futility of war through events
occurring afterwards has a universal
application. Further, the drama itself is
so good, so natural and human, and is
withal so finely acted, that, quite apart
from its thoughtful undercurrents, it is
capital entertainment.
The story, by Remarque, concerns three
German soldiers of fine type, with the war
just over and themselves about to go back
into civil life. One has retained a natural
optimism, despite the war, though there
has become blended with it a strengthen-
ing of character and purposefulness. He
is the humorist of the trio ; not embit-
tered nor cynical, but yet not a mere
lighthearted superficiality. The idea of
war-made comradeship is embedded deep
in him. Henceforth this is his credo,
and, as he is to prove, he will go to the
length of killing to avenge the breaking
of it.
He is the personification of the com-
radeship that was common among sol-
diers of all armies, and even persists now,
though marriage and other influences of
civilian life have by this time watered it
down a lot. At its height it was as
strongly binding and splendid as here
depicted through Franchot Tone’s un-
derstanding interpretation.
The character depicted by Taylor is
another true to actuality in thousands of
Diggers. It is typical of all those who
came out of the war still, despite war’s
power of disillusionment in most other
respects, romantic sentimentalists. This
kind married readily and readjusted
themselves comparatively easily as un-
distinguishable units in the social
organism of civilian life. In the film this
latter is complicated by the element
of comradeship—operating to the good,
as it happens, in respect of the marriage
—plus the fact that the girl is herself
physically a war victim. She is finely
portrayed by Margaret Sullavan, her ill-
ness providing the centre of dramatic in-
terest and bringing about the natural con-
clusion of the story.
Young has the part of the more earnest
and serious type of ex-soldier, for whom,
in the special conditions prevailing in
Germany after the war, peace held an
even more embittering element of dis-
illusionment than the war had done. The
general lot of the Diggers was compara-
tively easy. They returned to a country
that was just as they had left it—peaceful,
prosperous, virtually untouched by the
war. In Germany “peace” was the savage
and bitter business of revolution. To a
serious-minded man who had fought in
a losing war this was a last straw. How-
ever, the one here depicted is held back
from the violently active part he would
have taken by the still-binding ties of
comradeship. These prevail for a time,
but eventually his natural character leads
him in to the death which the member
of the trio represented by Tone forthwith
avenges.
All these matters, together with the
love and marriage and subsequent sick-
ness problems of Taylor and the girl, are
woven into a strong pattern. It is a
sincere and moving drama that goes deep
into human character.
“Jezebel.”
Bette Davis.
This, at Sydney Embassy, is the other
drama film referred to in the foregoing.
It, also, is sound in story, very rich in
character, and embroidered with a depic-
tion of the chivalrous rules of conduct
and behavior practised in U.S.A.’s
southern States about the time of the
Civil War.
It is, however, not another Civil War
drama. Customs of North and South
come into a certain amount of conflict,
but the main element of complication
arises from natural play of character,
with an outbreak of yellow fever as the
decisive dramatic occurrence.
Miss Davis has, and acts splendidly,
the part of a wilful-minded young
Southerner who forces complications by
actions that do violence to what is held
as proper behavior. A few petty in-
fringements culminate in a most glaring
act —the lass wears to a ball a flaming
red dress. Proper behavior insists on
white for all unmarried young ladies, and
at once Established Custom gets up
fiercely on its hind legs.
At the ball all others draw aside and
leave the dance floor to Miss Davis and
her young man (Henry Fonda), the young
man, himself an ultra-stiff upholder of
propriety, thereupon setting his lips tight
and seeing to it that the wilful young miss
Joe Valli watches George Wallace committing suicide in “Let George Do It.”
drinks the proffered cup of insult to the
bitter dregs.
After that he goes off, still very stiff-
lipped, and later returns with a bride of
the North. Thereafter North-South ideas
are in continuous conflict, the plot leading
on to a dramatic peak when the some-
what pigheaded young man is stricken
down with yellow fever and has to be
taken to the quarantine island, which
means to his death. Here conflict arises
over whether it is to be his former lover
or his wife who will make the supreme
and terrible sacrifice of going with him:
South wins, though by a process that
does no insult to North.
It is an interesting and memorable film,
chiefly through the excellent acting of
Miss Davis and the depiction of the
scenes associated with the scourge of
yellow fever. Costuming and settings are
magnificent, and the whole production
quite outstanding.
“Vivacious Lady ”
Ginger Rogers.
In this Sydney Regent offering James
Stewart, with a part right into his hands
as serious-minded young professor in the
college conducted by his pop, goes to the
city -and is there engaged in trying to
induce a wild-living relation to get back
on the waterwagon and come home, when
he meets, in the person of the cabaret
performer with whom his relation is toy-
ing, the vivacious young lady—that is
tp say, the lively Ginger—who is destined
to clear the cobwebs from his thinking
gear and make him come alive.
Though a slow mover, James manages
to marry Ginger within a matter of
hours, but when he gets her back home
he can’t bring himself to break the glad
news to dear old ma, who suffers from
fake heart-attacks, or to despotic old
pop, who has hitherto ruled the roost
in the heaviest style of marital dictators.
So comedy complications ensue, the rest
of the opus being directed to working all
out to the end of happiness for every-
body.
In its high moments the comedy is a
clinker. There are fair gaps of some-
what pedestrian doings between those
moments, which is unusual in American
comedies, but something of an advan-
tage in that the patient is given a little
time to recover between laughs.
One of the very brightest efforts is a
stand-up exchange of face-slapping lead-
ing to an all-in engagement between the
useful Ginger and the lass whose place
she usurped in the solemn but, alas!
fickle James’s affections. It’s a pretty
bit of stoush, with some particularly
good left-hooking.
Ginger, though she’s a dabster on her
tootsies, doesn’t hoof it, but her per-
formance is capital nevertheless. Other
parties to the proceedings all support that
vivacious young lady very creditably.
“When Were You Born?”
According to this Sydney Regent out-
crop of hocus-pocus, those Sydney gentry
who offer to pick winners, for a con-
sideration, by the guidance of the stars
are only touching the fringe of the pos-
sibilities of this “science,” as it is called
by a sauve soothsayer who appears in
mountainous close-up on the screen and
puts in a solemn 10 minutes or so in-
troducing the opus.
With the aid of a revolving circular
diagram, this gentleman explains how each
person’s character is predetermined by
the lump of gaseous rock arbitrarily
attached by somebody in the past to the
particular month in which the person
happened to be born. Apparently every-
thing—character, behavior and what have
you—is all decided for us by one dozen
lumps of heavenly rock. These might
be described as the workers of the hive,
all the known countless millions of others,
to say nothing of the rest beyond ’em
stretching out into infinity, being just
a lot of common loafers.
Seemingly astrologers and certainly the
sort of people who believe in them can
take this hocus seriously. The film, after
the astrological layout has been ex-
plained, purports to show how even the
solution of crime mystery can be reached
by the stars’ aid. The astrologer is a
Chinese lady, Miss Anna May Wong,
who, after predicting the victim’s death,
is roped in for questioning and stays on
the police premises eliminating suspect
after suspect by their birthdays till the
killer is found. It should be said in
excuse for this set-up that where a body
of police was so completely incompetent
even astrology might be a preferable
means of sleuthing.
The astrological trimming is simply a
shrewd producing dodge to make an
ordinary crime yarn a bit more entertain-
ing. It’s well put over in the introductory
section ; thereafter both it and the stiff
Oriental superiority of Miss Wong are
rather a severe pain in the neck.
“Wives Under Suspicion”
Main offering at Sydney State, this is
serious drama by intention but melo-
drama in the result. It represents an
elaboration of the “Crime Does Not Pay”
idea, with emotional trimmings.
The set-up of it has a ruthless prosecut-
ing attorney to whom securing death
sentences has become a mania. He is
forced to see the light when, in the course
of prosecuting a leading citizen who has
committed a crime of passion, he himself
comes within an ace of committing pre-
cisely the same crime through much the
same sort of developments in his own
menage.
The film is most notable for the sterling
acting of Warren William. He makes a
fine job of the attorney, and that, plus
a well-plotted story, strong acting support
and good direction, makes the opus a
bit above f.a.q. interesting entertainment.
The moral seems of doubtful validity
that a man, having neglected his wife
and then finding her in another man’s
company, is justified in shooting her. It
might as plausibly be argued that the wife
would be justified in popping off the
husband. At any rate, it would make a
more original film.
“Over She Goes.”
Barry Lupirto, John Wood, Judy Kelly, etc.
Though only a lightweight, this sup-
port at Sydney State will have special
interest for many by reason of the Aus-
tralians appearing in it and as a com-
parison with the stage show done here
by George Gee.
Of the Australians, Wood has the best
part—that of the young lord who comes
into the title on the reported death of
his uncle, becomes engaged and is then
pursued by a flame of the days when
he was a member of a third-rate vaude-
ville act. This young actor did a nice
job formerly on the Australian boards ;
he has improved out of sight. The Kelly
young lady and others also do nice jobs.
It may be through having seen the
one in the flesh and the other merely
in shadow, but to present film-taster
Lupino doesn’t seem to get within coo-ee
of George Gee’s wonderful damfoolery.
Those who saw the stage show will come
away from the film feeling what an
excellent affair the stage production was,
which is not meant to say the film isn’t
an engaging light entertainer. Compared
with the general order of support films
it’s quite high-class.
Louis-Schmeling Fight Film.
State Theatrette has this as
main attraction of its current bill, along
with a generally entertaining lot of
newsreel shorts.
The question of whether or not Louis
fouled Schmeling is clearly answered in
the affirmative, but only by the repetition
of the film in slow motion. On the first
run through at the ordinary rate there
appeared to be a blow to the back,
but it would take quicker eyes than this
commentator possesses to be dead sure
of it.
The slow motion clears up all doubt.
Louis hit Schmeling with a right just
about the lower region of the ribs and
partly to the back, then with a right
fair and square in the back. Schmel-
ing has his back half-turned away from
the camera at the time, but there can’t
be any doubt about the blow.
After it was delivered Schmeling
stopped two punches to the jaw which
sent him to the canvas ; he rolled on to
his back, over and up on his feet again
in the one movement, and then stopped
the punch—a clinking right to the
point—which ended the fight.
He was not counted out, nor did the
throwing-in of the towel conclude the
affair. The ref. threw the towel away,
and it hung like a neatly-pegged-out bit
of washing on the ropes. He then turned
and bent over the half-kneeling Schmel-
ing, as if trying to lift him to his feet,
and, seeing .the state the German was
in, declared Louis the winner on a tech-
nical knock-out.
Foul apart, Schmeling made no sort
of a showing. He let out one heavy right
while Louis was back-moving, but that
was about all. When Louis came in
for the first shaking attack he did so
with Schmeling’s glove not punched but
merely pushed into his face. Schmeling
scarcely punched at any stage of the
seemingly very long two minues ; he just
pawed at Louis. The negro fought in
grand style ; his punching was straight
and powerful. He was the master from
the start, and looked a splendid world’s
champion.
“The Devil Take Her ”
A one-act opera by an Australian com-
poser—-“ The Devil Take Her,” by Arthur
Benjamin—had a first performance at
Sydney Con. on Saturday night, Florent
Hoogstoel conducting.
It is in the modern operatic style, all
recitative and declamation, with no


Sen yourself
IN THE
OIV THE
\
"CS
rient Line
BY OTRANTO
jSter* m .t&w-
turn
(20,000 TONS)
LATE IN AUGUST
* Commencing Brisbane, ending Sydney. Fares include steamer or Tail ticket Sydney-Brisbanc
after Cruise.
Illustrated folder giving full details of the four cruises to New Zealand.
Late October, Christmas, New Year, Late January, supplied on request.
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD.
Incorporated
England
Xu Oval tine’
J is unequalled for
ECONOMY_
rc
t tJ
MS3
tf |
‘Ovaltine* hot
or cold—is now
served at Cafes,
Restaurants and
Milk Bars.
4
Ovaltine'
gives you the
Jiighest Possible Quality |
• 3#t tire
JjDwest Possible Price
“D EMEMBER—there is more in ‘Ovaltine’—more in
health-giving ingredients—more in quality—more in
quantity, and more in value.
‘Ovaltine’ is a scientifically perfect food prepared from
malt extract, creamy milk and new-laid eggs. No other
food beverage conveys such a wealth of nourishment so
quickly to body, brain and nerves.
Unlike imitations, ‘Ovaltine’ does not contain any house-
hold sugar to give it bulk and to reduce the cost.
*Ovaltine* is packed in tins containing 4\, 9 and 18 ozs.
—compare these weights with imitations!
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial sample of ‘Ovaltine,’ suffi-
cient to make four cupsful, will be sent on receipt of 3d. in
stamps to cover cost of packing and postage. See address below:
PRICES: 1/9; 2/10; 5/-. At AH Chemists and Stores.
A. WANDER LIMITED. 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY
025-18-38
formal melodies. The writing for orches-
tra and for voices is clever, but it was
hardly possible to judge whether the
music suited the words, because these
were seldom distinguishable. However,
the legend on which the libretto is
founded is fairly well known.-
Deborah Julius, Harold Tollemache
and Reginald Willoughby were the prin-
cipal singers, Hilda Mulligan was pro-
ducer, and the very nice settings were
designed by Gwenda Bainton.
Some Hebridean Songs.
Clement Hosking, basso cantante and
authority on the Celtic folk-song, in-
troduced many Hebridean songs in his
recital at Sydney Forum Club. These
he had gathered during several months
recently spent in research work in the
Outer Hebrides.
Ranging from the gentle cadences of
simple love songs and lullabies to the
turbulence of clan battle-songs, the
melodies reflect the musical culture of
a people who still live only on civilisa-
tion’s fringe. Many of these quaint songs
have been handed down, unchanged in
form, from generation to generation for
a thousand years.
Using an attractive voice with artistry,
Hosking captured the spirit of the music.
Prominent among many captivating tran-
scriptions were the “Hill of Mist,” which
is a folk version of “Kishmul’s Galley,”
and the Song of the Battle of Carinish.
Celtic dance, weaving and waulking
songs, melodious and lilting, were de-
livered with gusto. A commentary on
each song and stories and legends of
this little-known people interestingly
varied an excellent musical programme.
Australian Plays.
Sydney Drama League gave four Aus-
tralian plays an airing at the Little
Theatre.
Louis Esson’s “Andeganora,” showing
a black boy being worked up to kill his
boss, was the most effective piece of
local color. It would have looked less like
an essay in understatement if Andegan-
ora, the old blackfellow who has to work
his son, and the play, up to the emotional
intensity where killing is inevitable, had
been portrayed with some hint of
malevolence. The mounted constable,
whose brief entry is meant to bring in
the first touch of the sinister, looked
much too youthful.
Scenes from “A House Is Built” were
followed by “At Dusk,” by Millicent
Armstrong—a play depending for its sus-
pense on an extremely difficult study of
a girl who was “fey.” Next was “Send-
ing Grannie Off,” by Morris Hay-
Simpson. It was so obvious that the old
lady who had decided to die wasn’t going
to that the play would have taken a lot
of sitting through, if it hadn’t been for
the excellent lones-family business turned
on by all concerned.
A Lady Organist,
The news, singularly unaccompanied
•with particulars, that a Mile. Renee
Nizan was to function at Melb. Town
Hall organ at four free lunchtime recitals
was responsible for the biggest rush of
citizens to that edifice since Lawrence
Tibbett sang there.
The slim French woman, with a
European reputation and the technique
of a pianist, played pianissimos so faintly
that some of them failed to reach the
backblocks of the audience. When she
knows the curious acoustics of the civic
chamber better she should achieve a
nicer balance. Her programmes, like late
incumbent McKie’s, are of the highest
order.
Flagstad in Melbourne.
The Valkyries’ Battle-cry has become
the recognised house-emptier at Melb.
Town Hall, where the Flagstad continues
to draw the crowds, pianist McArthur
continues to smile and smile and prove
himself an additional attraction, and
Grieg’s “Dream” is in constant demand.
No previous singer had put a composer
so completely on the map as Flagstad
has put Grieg. Percy Grainger, the Scan-
dinavian composer’s most fervid admirer,
did not succeed so well with his piano
playing.
Contemporary Group.
Exactly what bond unites the Con-
temporary Group it is difficult to dis-
cover. The show at Sydney’s Macquarie
Galleries ranges in manner from stylised
semi-decorative work to wilfully primi-
.. ,
tlv l delineatlons .;
The most-easily-understood works are
Roland Wakelin’s “Domestic Employ-
ments” (a girl seated at a kitchen table
preparing vegetables), painted simply,
sincerely and engagingly, and Adelaide
Perry’s “Philippa and the Pig” (another
young girl, with toy pig), which also
appeals by reason of its entire absence
of affectation
Wakelin demonstrates his instinct for
an effective picture (which will out,
thwart it though he may) in the admir-
ably-composed “Road, Castle Hill.” In
“Through the Trees, Ball’s Head” he in-
eludes some horriblv prosaic houses.
-p. • • ' c v
The imaginations of Kenneth Mac-
queen and Adelaide painter Dorrit Black
have both been captured by the rhythmic
pattern of ploughed fields. Macqueen’s
furr ? W oV , er T"’"®
f 6 8 ”
, , T 7.
Emd Cambridge in Westerly Wind
does one thing well—she expresses wind,
unmistakably. George Bell s sea-beach is
a supernatural oddity, and Grace Cos-
smgton Smith s Bonfire in the Bush has
also an eerie quality. Helen Stewart is
as clever and as exasperating as ever in
Tiger Lilies, but proves again that she
can draw in a pencil study of a nude.
Toseph Connor s matter-of-fact state-
ments of topographical formations carry
conviction.
A Show of Drawings.
At the Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney,
is a show of drawings by vanous artists.
A newcomer with ideas is Robert Emer-
son Curtis, who gets a good poster motif
out of Sydney’s Harbor Bridge at night
(“Concrete and Steel”) and puts a bit of
poetry into a waterside study of demoli-
tion (breaking up a ship) and into
“Machines. ’
presents some semi-nude
studies in chalk — shaded curve stuff
that manages to mingle somehow the
mec jiseval and the modern. Frank
Hinder, who is running the gallery in
Wal Taylor’s absence abroad, follows a
somewhat similar school in some of his
offerings, and throws in a problem-piece
in black-and-white which might repre-
sent anything.
Douglas Pratt’s and Hans Heysen’s
firm, reliable pencils limn pastoral scenes
ith charming fidelity, Adrian Feint and
Margaret Preston show nice woodcuts,
a (? d Lloyd Rees is represented by three
° f r , his , JW* P er ? cll k u etcl l es - J ,m
Wl f ley % tint f d drawm g The Ferry, a
* tudy of ? dl Y erse B rou P <? f Passengers,
has its point, but some of the figures are
c j umsv
y ‘
Barrie in Adelaide
Adelaide Repertory, after a series of
ultra-modern shows, played for safety
with Barrie’s old “Admirable Crichton,”
to tbe obvious content of three large
bouses.
Llandaff Mathews conveyed admirably
tbe change from Jeeves to Mussolini; it
j s entirely Barrie’s fault that the change
j s so convincing. Ethel Matthews and
Meta McCaffrey were the two contrasted
women in his life ; and Robert Matthews
as producer wisely followed the “book,”
leaving him stranded between them, in-
stead of accepting the improbable happy
ending that Boucicault used to stage.
Among a big cast, Ronald Simpson,
Frank Waters and Donald Noblet (as a
sort of super-Jardine) had the best
chances
The ep took (he opportunity t 0 fare _
we jj f yj-j | Riley, its full-time secretary
for the past two years. Before that he
had two in Perth, and he now goes there
again, but as manager of a city club, not
of the Rep. there, of which he was then
secretary.


??
let’s all
ENJOY LIFE!
all have a
good time ALL
the time! Why not!
Whoopee! Nogrouch-
ers no shirkers. Dance
merrily through life
feeling as fit as a fiddle
and ready to blow our
trumpets whh the best!
Paint the old town red
if we wisl/... with never
a bad jiead or a touch of indigestion
follow. For Yeaston
Tablets will keep us
up to the mark . . .
Get ’em at any
pharmacy in V • or
4'6 bottles.
A
to
Y EASTON
TABLETS
Plan Now
For
Comfort
in London,
100 bedrooms, with bathroom
and ’phone. Fully Upraised
restaurant open till midnight.
Special rates for Overseas
visitors.
Details from
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Dacliflat, Lesquare, London.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
On the tower of the Villers-Bretonneux
Memorial to the A.I.F. there is a distance
disk indicating, among other cities, Can-
berra and naming the thousands of miles
separating it from the plains of Picardy.
But in a heart-throb, in the movement of
a radio switch, Australia found her-
self there last week, seeing the high
white memorial to her soldier dead. She
saw the rising sun of Australia carved in
the white marble shining in the afternoon
sun of France. She saw the tower rising
high above the ripening fields of grain,
saw the poplars and the willows and
the distant spires of village churches
around whose walls peace fluttered like a
homing dove. And Australia was proud
that the men of her country had helped
to make that scene possible.
Twenty years before thousands of Dig-
gers had camped on this plain. They
brought with them memories of days
spent on golden beaches, in the blue hills
of Mittagong, under the glorious trees
of Fitzroy Gardens, in the pleasant dig-
nity of Adelaide, in the cool vistas of
Perth’s garden ways, and to these simply-
ordered lives they meant to return. But
thousands of them lie with their dreams
in the cemeteries of Villers-Bretonneux,
so that this corner of France is for all
lime a corner of Australia.
Thinking of these things, the dweller
in flat and mansion, in outback station
home or tiny homestead followed the un-
veiling of the memorial, act by act. We
followed the King as he walked along
the line of ex-A.I.F. men. We saw him
stop here and there, with that quick sym-
pathy which made his father so beloved,
to speak to an elderly man in the line, to
have a few words with two blinded sol-
diers. We saw the Queen in her white
frock taking in her hands the bunch of
field poppies that a small French boy
had gathered earlier in the day. And
we knew that he gave them to this Queen
in her white frock because she, uncon-
sciously, symbolised for him the safety
and security which 20 years earlier the
Australians had brought to the children
of Villers-Bretonneux.
We saw the sea of eager, emotional
French faces, listened to the words of
France’s President Lebrun and knew
these people as our soldiers had known
them —firm allies, trusty comrades-in-
arms, The “Last Post” sounded, there was
a roll of muffled drums. The King, the
Queen, the President and his entourage
departed. The cheers died down. But
in the westering sun the immortal names
of many engagements burned on the
marbles of the memorial. The Queen’s
bunch of poppies lay beside the King’s
wreath. The President’s glowed opposite,
and in the evening haze, after the day’s
heat, the 60 blue-gums planted about
the fore courts gave out the essence of
their own land to our army buried there
—eleven thousand of them in their name-
less graves!
Kyeemagh, under Saturday’s blue sky,
was not an unpleasant place to spend
the afternoon. The polo, too, was pretty
spirited, and the final round-up in the
R. M, Pitt Memorial Cup was a win
for Scone. There were the usual num-
bers of tweedy followers of the game.
Mrs Venour ISlathan was among them,
and wore a cape as long as her tweeds.
This cape hung beautifully, and was of
soft green woollen. The Jimmy Bancks
couple were there. Her swagger coat
was of wood-brown tweeds, and her
brown velour hat had a pointed crown.
Phyllis Downes, of Camden, mixed yel-
lows and browns effectively. Canada was
represented by her Trade Commissioner
Moore Cosgrave, his wife and daughter.
Mrs. Dougal Bray and Mrs Geoff Ashton
were among the noted.
The royal visit to France was an over-
whelming success. The Queen captivated
all with her coloring, her manner and
her complete ease in the French language.
We expected that. But Paris went en-
thusiastic over her frocks. Mostly those
for formal wear were bouffant and after
the crinoline style, and made her an ex-
tremely pictorial figure. No nation is a
better host than the French. The whole
entertainment of the English royalties was
planned to tone with the palaces which
were the scenes of the various functions.
The highlight was Versailles, with its
30,000 English roses, its chamber music
with the audience dressed to period, its
play by Moliere enacted in Apollo’s
grove. Probably the shades of Marie
Antoinette and her pretty ladies-in-wait-
ing dropped being make-believe dairy-
maids, and ran to clap gay applause.
The “Squire of Jarvisfield” at Picton,
loved by all the countryside where he
had lived nearly all the years of his 79
birthdays, has gone to his last resting-
place on Vault Hill. R. H. Antill, eldest
son of the late John Macquarie Antill
and grandson of Major Golden Antill,
A.D.C. in the long-ago to Governor
Macquarie, sleeps with his race on top
of the steep hill that rises in undulating
land behind the handsome old home-
stead. Built in 1864, it is the third Antill
home—the first a cottage —on Jarvisfield
estate. Tall, erect and cheery, as one
saw him shortly before Christmas in
his smoking-room on a Sunday after-
noon, he liked a visitor to sit in the old
Macquarie chair deep - backed and
spacious and still youthful in its frock
of flowered chintz. From just above the
big chair given by Governor Macquarie
to his friend and A.D.C. the beautiful
serene face of the late Mrs. John Antill
(R.H.’s mother) looks down.
Pretty and popular Helen McLean is
not afraid to face the serious side of
things. The plight of the T.B. children
has made appeal to her, and she has
become hon. organising sec. of the Anti-
T.B. Assoc, of N. S. Wales. Her work
lies a good deal in the clinic at Albion-
street, Surry Hills, and the crying need
is providing cod-liver oil and milk for
poor children. The work of the clinic
is preventive. There are eight honorary
doctors, a radiologist and a trained
nurse attached to the clinic. The X-ray
work is invaluable, for not only the
suspect but all the members of his family
can be rayed, and this is a great step
forward in preventive measures. All
Helen’s energies are now directed to
making a great success of the Dutch
garden fete to be held on October 22
at Elaine,* the Hubert Fairfax home. This
will have the euphonious title “Tulip
Time at Elaine.” Photograph from
Dorothy Welding.
A letter, just 20 days old, from
Madresfield Court tells of plans made by
Earl Beauchamp and daughter Lady
Dorothy Lygon for a journey to Aus-
tralia. This will be towards the end of
the year, the travellers expecting to
arrive on November 29. Lord Beau-
champ’s secretary, David Smyth, will be
one of the party. They will stay at
March-street, Bellevue Hill. The Beau-
champ home in Belgrave Square was the
scene of a brilliant party recently. The
Earl’s daughters organised it to help one
of their pet charities. All the well-known
in London came, and nobody went home
till five o’clock in the morning.
Among the guests were the Duke and
Duchess of Marlborough, Lord and Lady
Weymouth, Hermione Baddeley, who is
leading lady with Cyril Ritchard, Lord
Stanley of Alderley, Mrs. Anthony Eden,
Prince Vsevolod, of Russia, and the
Maharajah of Jaipur, as well as every
member of the Earl’s family, including
Lady Lettice Cotterell and Lady Elmley.
Lady Mary Lygon was a picture in a
crinoline gown in grey silk with grey
lace on the bodice. She wore pink roses
in her hair, which was piled up in the
new style coiffure.
Great agitation among the hockey
sticks of Australia! Last Monday the
English women hockey players arrived
in Sydney. Captain M. M. Knott is
England’s most famous captain. She is
known as “Knotty,” and she is the great-
est woman “back” the game has pro-
duced. Manager Joan Warwick will re-
new old friendships. She was a member
of the first English team to visit Aus-
tralia. That was in 1927. These two
were in the U.S.A. when our team visited
the States, and there was an interlude or
two of linking up the bonds of Empire.
Nora Judd had seen the Harbor before.
She was here with the Anglo-Scottish
lasses last year. The visit is unofficial,
but there will be a match with an
Australian team at University Square
on July 30. The girls will be billeted
in private homes, and ahead of them
there’s a long list of entertainments.
This is pretty Lucille, daughter of the
new Consul-General for Belgium and
Mrs. Jansen. Lucille is fond of dancing
and sports. The family is making tem-
porary home at Edgecliff. Photo, from
Lupton studio.
The British Drama League’s sherry
hour to the glory of Ruth Draper was
too crowded for its own home, so it was
given in the Lyceum Club. There were
many males, and companies of young
girls, and all listened closely when Ruth
told how she did it. She loses herself in
the character, and does not let anything
interrupt the continuity of the idea. It
sounds very easy; let’s practise it at
home! Ruth was very smart in a Floren-
tine-blue frock and a sienna-brown
toque (there’s continuity of idea), a spray
of lily-of-the-valley and a string of pearls
were lightsome touches.
Alexander Gordon’s lady, who is presi-
dent of the league, was not able to be
present, so the chairman of the council,
Mr. Justice Nicholas, and Mrs. A. G.
Thomas received the guest. Evelyn
Tildesley was an important in the smooth
running of things. The David Maughans,
Alice Gould, Mrs. J. L. Ruthven, Mrs.
Bernard Muscio, Rosemary Benjamin,
Molly Murray, Alison Nicholas, Doris
Fitton and Beryl Bryant were enthusiasts.
All too few went to the opening of
Loma Lautour’s show. This fills the
Castlereagh Fine Art Gallery with an
interesting company of heads, busts,
torsos, figures, masks, panels, plaques,
tapestry and lino.-cuts. Loma, the line
of her firmly-modelled face and head
thrown into relief by her hair, which was
tightly drawn back into a tiny bob on
the nape of the neck, was a striking
figure. Her green and beige tweed skirt
was all stripes, and the coat that topped
it flared from the waist. Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax, who said the opening words,
wore a beige redingote over a black
frock. A fearsome Chinese mask with
moustaches of horsehair which reached
to the ground, and eyebrows that twirled
skywards, was one of the pieces that
everyone stopped to gaze at. Grace, the
figure of a young girl, was another ex-
hibit that excited admiration.
Moving day looms ahead for
S.C.E.G.S., North Sydney. On August
13 Lady Wakehurst will lay the foun-
dation stone of the new classroom block
at Standish, River-road, Greenwich. The
council of this C. of E. girls’ gram-
mar school is very glad that the school
will shortly be moving to new premises,
where 10 acres of grounds will give
ample room for playing fields and exten-
sions. The school will be a boarding and
day school, and will serve a large district
in and around the Lane Cove River and
the lower northern suburbs.
Last week’s surprise wedding was
that of Minister for Social Services Haw-
kins. The principal lady was Mrs. Gwen-
doline Bosch, widow of G. H. Bosch, to
whom Sydney Uni. owes such generous
endowments. It was the second flight
into matrimony for the 62-year-old
’groom as well as for his bride.
Arthur Benjamin’s one-act opera “The
Devil Take Her” proved a success with
a Conservatorium audience last Saturday
The opera was presented by the Con
Opera School, and was a sprightly, light-
hearted affair. Two outstanding airs
were the poet’s song at the beginning and
the drinking number when the magician
is strengthening himself to perform the
operation of loosing the tongue of the
poet’s wife. The poet’s wife is beautiful
but dumb —in the literal, not the Ameri-
can, sense. The poet longs to hear her
say “I love you.” The great Eastern
doctor lets loose her speech—a viperish,
venomous, never-ending stream. The
poet, almost distracted, calls on the Devil
to take her. But even the Devil quails
before her acid tongue, and the husband
quite gladly goes down below, a willing
substitute.
Off to England by way of the U.S.A.
went the Hon. Henrietta Loder, daughter
of Lord and Lady Wakehurst, last
Friday. In the Monterey with her
travelled brother Christopher. On his
arrival in England he will go to Eton.
In the Monterey, too, journeyed surgeon
John McKelvey and his lady. She is
bound for New York. He goes as far as
Honolulu —then comes back to Syd-
ney. The Alexis Alberts and Lesley
Turner were other well-knowns in the
ship.
Sydney is being surfeited with rather
than starved for music at the moment.
Tibbett, Tauber, Malcolm Sargent,
Sigurd Rascher have all burst into the
metropolis. Sigurd, who is Swedish,
specialises in playing classics on the saxo-
phone. He has a mop of blonde hair.
His wife wqars nice little hats and smart
frocks.
All the not-so-young ladies continue to
remark that Malcolm Sargent is Puckish.
The Philip Street lady and the chairman
of the A.8.C., Mr. Cleary, were obvi-
ously pleased over the way Malcolm re-
established himself in Sydney’s heart at
the reception last Friday. This was in
the Australia, and was given by the com-
mittee of the Symphony Orchestra. Syd-
ney women feel like giving Tauber a
packet of cigarettes or throat lozenges.
Great delight is expressed over this dicky-
bird’s request that Town Hall radiators
be turned on from early afternoon. “I’ll
be able to leave off my tennis socks if
he gets his way,” declared one concert-
goer in blithe tones.
One of the busy spots of last week
was the Contemporary Group’s exhibi-
tion in the Macquarie Galleries. This
was opened by Dr. lan Hogbin, who was
led forward by Roland Wakelin. It was
a social and sociable affair, and the
chatter was as bright as the spring
flowers that bloomed on the tables in
the window and in every available
cranny. The two rooms were filled with
displayers and their supporters. Mrs.
A. T. Anderson came with daughter Mrs.
Foott, from Melbourne. Her tiny
brimmed sailor hat had its veil, her black
frock its two white camellias, her throat
a nice string of pearls. Kitty Burton’s
bright face looked out from a wide-
brimmed felt hat. With her were Miss
Mollie and Miss Julia Young. These
ladies, settled again in Sydney, tell with
a smile how they once went to England
for nine months and stayed 17 or 18
years. Rosemary Muir, once of Christ-
church, was a distinguished figure.
Almost everybody wore black, so
Grace Cossington Smith’s daffodil-yellow
hat and gloves were as welcome as a ray
of light in a dark place. Mrs. Paul
Degan, a visitor from Europe who has
exhibited her work in Paris, came with
Mary Edwards. Mary’s dark-rose frock
was made with a matching hem-length
cape. Treania Smith was there ; so was
Helen Stewart. All the women liked
“Domestic Employments” —a study of a
young girl cutting beans by Roland
Wakelin. Maybe because the day was
overclouded this Letter’s vote went to
Kenneth Mac Queen’s “Morning on a
Queensland Beach.”
Ruby Simpson, M.Sc., Columbia Uni.,
U.S.A., has taken up the position of
principal of the Memorial College of
Household Arts and Science, Kirribilh.
She comes from the staff of lowa State
College, and had previously been on the
staff of the University of Nebraska. Her
special subjects are home and institutional
management, child development and
family relationships.


Age 40!..
Starts health’s steep downward slope. About
40 life’s fight begins. Danger symptoms
show —Weak, Dizzy, Depressed Spells; Back-
aches, Rheumatism (often affecting heart);
attacks from Kidney Germs, Acids and
Poisons.
AVERAGE LIFE ENDS ABOUT 55
Due to Rheumatic , Kidney , Bladder,
Acid or Associated Disorders.
Medical science proves “Life-
line Decline” starts near 40.
Then “ middle-age ” troubles
cheat great numbers of men
of health; while KIDNEY AND
BLADDER BREAKDOWN
afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 100 —though many
never know why they ail!
Seventy-five per cent, of poison
wastes and uric acid deposits
are filtered by the kidneys in too
concentrated a form. The over-
burdened cells cannot stand the
strain. Congestion occurs, fore-
ing back into the system poisons
which should be expelled. Germ
attacks start. Here is where
health starts to fall off. Back,
groin, loin, muscular and
shoulder pains occur; swellings,
headaches, blurred vision, loss
of vitality; perhaps inflammation
of the bladder and urinary tract;
excessive or painful urination;
shortness of breath; palpitation
of the heart, puffiness under the
eyes, nausea and many quite
alarming signs of future trouble.
LIFE CAN “BEGIN” AT 40
And GO ON Comfortably Long After 55
Strengthen kidneys, restore the
bladder, kill uric acidity—last-
ingly—properly—and Life can
be more full; can be extended
by five, ten, even twenty years,
For this purpose, Harrison’s Pills
—offered under authority of Dr.
Wm. Harrison, member of the
Royal College of Physicians—are
remarkably effective. Harrison’s
Pills are compounded to the most
perfect prescription known for
safely, surely, quickly overcom-
ing most middle- and old-age
weaknesses, pains and ills.
'm.
■ " ; ■ v '
Z \ \
N
«•>:
fcfeWt':
1
*&
SSSS
i
i
V*
|P
m
URIC ACID Crystals Like Splintered Glass
TEAR NERVES & MUSCLES
REMOVE
THESE HARM-
FUL ACID
CRYSTALS
with
HARRISON’S
PILLS.
mmis
E-Si-
wmm
xv
>,«*»
iaqram shoiuinq Tqpes of
;edle-point Uric Acid C.rqstals
Dia
Nee
?
With every movement—TOßTUßE! Tiny painpoints .that with every
move make you gasp and linip—weaken you, and spoil lile. Rheumatism
is deadly. It starts with kidney failure. Cleanse your system of the
trouble-causing crystals; heal your raw, weakened kidneys by taking
Harrison’s Pills. This remedy reaches the spot. In quick time sufferers
from Kidney-Bladder-Acid Ills'who have failed to get benefit from other
remedies find Harrison’s Pills bring grateful ease.
“Unless I can end these pains and get back my strength
1 feel I cant go on."
So say thousands. The Remedy is Harrison’s Pills—producing a
rapid change from despondent weakness and pain to sparkling health.
WEARY BODIES REVIVE -YOUTH Returns
as Harrison’s Pills Conquer Causes of Decline
Harrison’s Pills strengthen the
Kidneys and Bladder, Expel
Uric Acid, Kill Germs and
Revitalise all the Vital Organs.
A short course of Harrison’s Pills produce
surprising improvements in health and vigor.
See the end of limb weariness, of haggard
appearance and despondent outlook. Note
the end of constipation. See a betterment in
your vision. Feel yourself become a good
ten years younger as Harrison’s Pills kill the
causes of ageing ills and instil new power
into every nerve and sinew; say good-bye to
your rheumatic aches, pains, inflammation
and stiffness. Feel your step gain new youth-
ful elasticity; hear your friends remark at the
vast improvement in your spirits and your
bearing.
HARRISON’S PILLS NEVER DISAPPOINT.
Harrison’s Pills provide the most effective
general method known of prolonging useful,
healthy, pain-free life. And, in the added
years you gain, who knows what further
astounding marvels of rejuvenation science
may devise?
Future will be so Interesting
—LIFE MAY HOLD SO
MUCH
A REAL
(£ttaratvte
IMMEDIATE RESULTS
OR NO COST.
Simply get a package of Harrison’s Pills from the
nearest chemist. Take as directed, and if not freed
from vour aches and pains—if not more than pleased
with the improvements in your health, strength and
general bearing—your money will be returned. Ims
guarantee protects you in making a. trial—if Harrisons
Pills succeed at once in your own case, they are worth
the cost. If the first bottle fails—it is free! Twee
sizes: 2/-, 3/-, 5/-. If any difficulty, order direct from
the Distributors, Amalgamated Laboratories, Halving
House, Sydney.
Women Get Splendid Results
“Dear Sirs, —My daughter has suffered a lot from
swollen feet. She tried many other remedies, but
obtained no benefit until taking Harrison’s Pills. They
gave her relief straight away, and we cannot speak
too highly of them —they really are wonderful. She
has had no recurrences of the trouble.
(Signed) 0, E. McKellau.”
MADE HIM A NEW MAN 1
“Dear Sirs, —Due to uric acid and severe rheumatism, I
was practically dead at 77. In spite of the severity of
my trouble, Harrison’s Pills have made a new man of
me, and I feel not a day older than 50. I have never
known any remedy act in such a remarkably beneficial
manner.—(Signed) B. Jacobson.”
ANOTHER USER SAYS:—
“Harrison’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are the only pills
that do me any good . . . they saved me going to the
Hobart Public Hospital week after week. I suffered
from splitting headaches, giddiness, and I was bent
over like a half-shut penknife with my back. Last
August I was in bed five weeks—thanks to Harrison’s
Pills I am out of bed now. You can use this to let
anyone else know.- —(Signed) J. Taylor. - ’
end ageing kidney,
Bladder and Acid Ills—With
HARRISONS PILLS


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Ducrdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
(Divorce).
TO HUBERT STANLEY HAYES last heard
of at Launceston in Tasmania but whose
whereabouts are at present unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been
filed in this Court indorsed with a notice to
you to appear and answer the charge in the
petition of ELSIE ALICE HAYES of Laun-
ceston in Tasmania praying for a dissolution
of marriage In default of your so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved and pronounce judgment in re-
spect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid on or
before the 26th day of August 1938 an appear-
ance must be entered at the Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street
Hobart.
(Sgd.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL THOMAS FLANIGAN (a brother of
Owen T. Flanigan, late of Strathalbyn, South
Australia, farmer, deceased), or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate promptly
with the undersigned.
E. J. TUCKER & SONS,
Solicitors,
Strathalbyn, South Australia.
GARRIE. —Will JACK GARRIE, Carpenter,
and/or MRS. ANNIE MARIA GARRIE,
formerly RIDLEY, nee CARR, who were re-
siding at Penrith in or about 1923, or anyone
having knowledge of their whereabouts, please
communicate with the UNION TRUSTEE CO.
OI" AUSTRALIA, LTD., 400 Queen Street,
Brisbane?
Melbourne
Chatter
Although Victoria wakes up most
mornings to hard white frosts (even in
Melbourne suburbs the water has occa-
sionally frozen in the pipes overnight)
there are preparations for spring in the
great outdoors. Early wattle is bloom-
ing and there is a dusting of pink on
some flowering fruit-trees, overanxious
for a change from their bare-branched
winter fashions. Within doors, also,
fashion of another nature is taking shape
for the coming spring. It seems that
boleros, in contrasting as well as similar
materials for the accompanying frock,
will be on every pair of shoulders. Some
for evenings and hot afternoons are of
coarse off-wHite lace, to be worn with
black frocks. Many skirts are pleated,
and evening frocks use a few extra yards
of material for their flared width around
the hem. The type of elastic shirring
used on some of last year’s cotton bath-
ing suits has been transferred to waist-
lines, cuffs, shoulders and sometimes
entire corsages of youthful frocks. The
secret of the expanding treatment which
makes for a give-and-take to sit snugly
upon the figure is that the machine used
in the manufacture takes an elastic in-
stead of a cotton thread.
The social season is proceeding quietly,
with concerts and mayoral balls as the
larger diversions, charity meetings and
some old school-tie gatherings among the
smaller happenings. The mayoral fix-
tures continue with such persistence that
it seems there are more balls than shires
and more debs, in fluttery frocks and
with flowers in their hair than there are
councillors, aldermen and politicians in
all seven Parliaments. Young men part-
ners for the debs, always seem to be ob-
tainable. Like innocents taken to the
slaughter they go through their paces of
presentations to the Mayors and Mayor-
esses, gradually thaw when that’s over
and become their bright, chirpy selves
from supper-time onwards. For such is
the thrill of party food to the very young.
Among the school fixtures was a party
at Lauriston with Miss E. Kirkhope as
hostess and three Old Lauristonians,
Leura Andrews, Margaret Fox and Ethel
Barber, as special guests of honor. These
three have been adding to their cultural
and sightseeing experience overseas.
Another headmistress who did the honors
during the week was Miss I. Flay, who,
at the Old Rosbercons’ annual ball,
talked with many of her past pupils and
heard how they are adapting themselves
to a variety of careers. The dance took
place at the new Masonic Hall, Brighton,
where Mrs. Hume Sherrard, as president
of the association, did some official wel-
coming. Other helpers with the organis-
ing were Joyce Foster and Pat Piper,
also Elizabeth Lucas, who was secretary
and treasurer in blue and fuchsia. In
between times guests sat around the room
to be entertained with a solo dance by
Merle Downie and a soup?on of acting
from the Dramatic Club.
“Edina and C 0.,” “The Shrine, the
Slums and the Governor’s House,”
“Spider-wort and the Devils,” “Zoo
Sketches,” “Green Milk Shop” were
some of the titles given in pictures to
spots in and around this city as seen by
the New Melbourne Art Club. The
group, which still sticks to the “New,”
though this is its sixth exhibition, is
exclusive about its members (there are
only 10 of them), and no one exhibits
more canvases than he or she can carry
in one trip up the studio stairs. Thus
the Athenaeum walls are not overcrowded.
The only water-colorist exhibiting is
Lucy Newell, who also does interesting
craft work, such as scarves made from
felt and the sort of fancy wrapping paper
that is part of the festive get-up of birth-
day-present parcels. For these papers
Miss Newell thinks out the designs, cuts
the blocks and does the printing. Present
also on the first day of the exhibition
were Sybil Craig and Anne Montgomery.
The latter brought along her new sister-
in-law, Mrs. Richard Montgomery, an
attractive brunette wearing brown and a
little Cossack cap with a tantalising tassel
dangling from its crown. Before her mar-
riage a few weeks ago Mrs. Montgomery
was Kathleen Clark, a Primrose nurse.
The Overseas League turned its philan-
thropic interests skywards last week with
a bridge party in aid of the Australian
Aerial Medical Services. As this organi-
sation grows larger, the sixth Flying
Doctor base is to be established at Alice
Springs at the end of the year, and more
money is needed to keep wings over
the vast empty areas of the country. The
Overseas party for the good cause was
held at Scott’s, with 250 players and
stayers, the former out for a serious
game, the latter doing far more talk
than play. Vice-president of the League
J. Farrin Webb and Mrs. Webb found
deputies to take their hands while they
helped do the honors to the Lord Mayor
and Mayoress, who put in an appearance
before supper, but couldn’t stay long
owing to other dates for the evening.
Mrs. j. W. Springthorpe, who is a mem-
ber of the council, and Miss S. Caygill,
who is on the reception committee, were
among supervisors of the arrangements.
Ticket-secretaries Nell Gladhill and
Una Douglas were far too busy balanc-
ing their books to do more arithmetic
with bridge scores. Betty Langham,
Dorothy Britten, Muriel and Thelma
Watt sold lucky envelopes and saw that
no players who felt like eating choco-
lates went without them.
A Jack Cato camera caught this
glimpse of Gwendoline Johnston, who is
engaged to Dr. Sydney Sunderland, the
young but very distinguished savant of
27 who has been appointed to the Chair
of Anatomy at Melbourne University.
Miss Johnston, who is the elder daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. A. H. Johnston, of East
Malvern, is in her final year at the Uni-
versity, studying for an LL.B., but she
doesn’t mean to practise when her degree
is conferred, and hopes to leave on
January 3 for her marriage in England.
She was born in Melbourne and educated
here at M.L.C. Among interests which
she shares with her fiance are music and
tennis. In addition he is a good Rugby
player. So that Dr. Sunderland can con-
tinue research work for a further 18
months at Oxford the University Council
has made his appointment effective from
1940.
There wasn’t room for all the guests
at the International Club when its mem-
bers and those of the Norwegian Club*;
co-operated in a reception for Kirsten
Flagstad. But the formalities were short,
and soon everybody took up less space
by pushing back chairs and standing up.
Madame was partial to her afternoon-
tea, and had it (with the help of her
manager, Marks Levien, holding her pres-
entation flowers) during the process of
introductions, a matter of a sip, a bite
and a handshake, until her husband,
Henry Johansen, looked at his watch,
excusing himself to the group around him
with “I must take my girl home.”
After his cup of tea Mr. Johansen lit
up one of his favorite cigars, of which
his pockets are never empty. In quiet
conversation he divulged that he approves
of Australian beer and wines, that both
he and Madame are good travellers and
never seasick even in the North Sea, and
that he would like to make some trips
by air, but his wife won’t let him. In
the speech of thanks which he made on
behalf of Madame Flagstad he referred
to a statement made in Norway that this
famous singer is a worthy ambassador of
her country, “And why not,” he added,
“when she comes with a song, not a
sword, nearest her heart?”
Fleeting glimpses were caught in the
crowded room of the Consul for Nor-
way, J. A. Schreuder, whose father, an
ex-Consul, spoke in Norwegian. It was
he who lent to the club the knitted-in-
silk Norwegian flags which decorated the
piano. Mrs. E. A. Alstergren was there
with two of her elder daughters, the latter
wearing Norwegian peasant costumes.
Peggy Nankivell called in, in between golf
fixtures and going up to Buffer for a ski-
ing holiday. Mrs. Chaldjian was tall,
slim and distinguishably blonde in her
black coat and hat. Mrs. F. D. Brock-
hoff had a letter in her handbag from
her sisters, Mrs. E. Barnes and Kitty
Sleight, who are enjoying a relaxing rest
down on the farm at Connecticut after
the flurry and noise of New York.
Mrs. Ramsay Moon, otherwise artist
Eileen Pearcey, caught the Orama on
Monday in Melbourne bound for Syd-
ney. Her luggage included packing-cases
containing 35 pictures for her one-man
show to be opened at the Macquarie
Galleries on August 3. Mrs. Moon hopes
to take her painting gear up the Hawkes-
bury River, where the soft evening lights
have reminded her on other occasions of
Loch Lomond. In Sydney she means to
see a lot of Dr. and Mrs. Cedric Swan-
ton. She and Mrs. Swanton were “Up at
the Shop” together doing an arts course.
If possible Mrs. Moon will make time
for a hurried visit to Brisbane, where
one of her best friends is Mrs. Geoff
Holland. .In October Mrs. Moon and
small son Felix leave on their return
to England, when Felix’s bright red head
will be missed from Melbourne by two
grandmothers, a grandfather and one
great-grandmother, Mrs. Forbes Ewan.
This young lad made no complaints
about cold in his mother’s home town,
for he had good early training. At the
age of two he was sent to an open-air
school in England, an institution where
the children thrive but over which the
teachers are not quite so enthusiastic.
In the Broothorn portrait is Helen
Speeding, who will give a concert at the
Assembly Hall on August 3. She feels
that it’s now or never, even if we are in
the midst of a season so heavily laden
with visiting celebrities that local musi-
cians have been heard very little or not
at all. Helen’s talent as a pianist is well
known, and this is not her first recital.
Her programme will include garnerings
from the robust technique of Handel,
Beethoven’s Sonata in A Flat Major
(Opus 110), a Brahms group, some
Chopin and some exotic moderns with
unpronounceable names like Prokofieff,
Toch, Dohnanyi and Bela Bartok. Helen,
who achieved her Mus. Bac. in Mel-
bourne a few years ago, is, like her two
sisters, an old girl of the Hermitage. Dur-
ing her student days she had all her own
way with the family grand piano, for
Mrs. John Morrison, Peggy, Keith and
Clive Speeding had no particular apti-
tude for music, their talents lying in
various other directions.
Flagstad’s immaculately-cut gowns are
a delight to Melbourne concert-goers,
for there’s never a crease or the sugges-
tion of a ridge to mar their sheathlike
aspect. Madame does not wear gloves;
she has such gorgeous diamonds in rings
and bracelets. At one of last week’s con-
certs she was in black velvet, her only
ornaments being diamonds and the
Order of St. Olaf pinned to the corsage.
At another she wore burgundy satin; a
third night she was glittersome in gold
lame, into which threads of peacock-blue
mingled and disappeared according to the
play of the light. With this gown went
a peacock-blue belt and scarf draperies
falling from the back of the shoulders
to the floor. The Lieut.-Governor was
present at this concert with the Mann
lady, who wore black moire lightly
spotted in gold, and daughter Diana, who
wrapped white furs around black velvet.
One of the most attractive coats worn
during the season was Betty Longstaff’s
long wrap of off-white brocaded moire
made with wide shoulders, flared skirt
and Peter Pan collar of fur. She says
it’s beautifully warm with its interlining
of light-weight woollen material.
The Consul for France, M. Claudon,
arranged the intimate but impressive
little ceremony on the lawn east of the
Shrine which took place on the same
date as the unveiling of the Australian
War Memorial at Villers-Bretonneux.
Present at this gathering in the warm
sunshine were only a dozen Frenchmen
and as many British, who stood shoulder
to shoulder for the placing of com-
memorative plaques at the base of the
beech-trees from the Somme, now about
two feet high. These were brought out
from France and planted in their present
position in Australian soil in April, 1935.
Though their growth has not been fast
they are sturdy and in a healthy con-
dition.
Meeting old friends in Melbourne is
Mrs. Frank Murray, who is staying with
her sister, Mrs. Harold Wilkinson. Mrs.
Murray has been away for two years,
spending most of that time in England.
Before she left these shores she visited
Westralia, in the north of which State
she lived for many years. Her return
was via Panama, with a sightseeing
stoppage at Curasao and Panama and an
anchoring off Pitcairn Island. The
islanders, among them several Christians
and at least one Young, came out to the
ship in boats with many polite phrases
and grandiloquent bows as part of their
salesmanship of fruit, native baskets,
shells, ptc.
James Jackson packed a suitcase of
winter woollies and looked out a pair of
leather gloves to come to Melbourne for
the opening of his exhibition at the
Sedon Galleries. But his wife remained
in the warmer climate of Sydney, busy
with the care of her small children.
Wearing a black hat and a fur-trimmed
black coat and carrying a posy of pan-
sies, violets and mignonette, the Latham
lady declared the exhibition open.
Among those transported temporarily to
the Sydney Harbor environment of blue
bays and red rooftops were Mrs. Essing-
ton Lewis, T. F. Fink, Jimmy Mac-
Donald and Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Law-
rence, she in a grey suit and tall Pied
Piper hat. Mrs. R. H. Croll wore her
favorite navy-blue and one of the pairs
of skin gloves she puts together so suc-
cessfully. Her tip to would-be glove-
makers is care of the little piece at the
base of thumb, which, once mastered,
ensures neat hands for the life of the
skins.
Mrs. Tom Hudson has gone to Sydney
to stay with Mrs. Charles du Val. When
the Aorangi arrives at the end of August
she will join her son Phillip and return
with him to Melbourne. Phillip has spent
17 months travelling in Europe, and is
interested in politics and the commercial
aspects of foreign affairs, so he’ll have
some interesting views to expound when
he gets home, and also a bit of study to
do, for he means to sit for an account-
ancy exam, in November. Mrs. du Val’s
son. Robert recently got through his final
medical exams., and is now a resident at
the Royal Prince Alfred.-


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney. Etc.
(Established 1885.) J
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived*
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., MLC ( Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, Beresfor® C ( Jto
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth- It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Every month six to nine patterns
are given away free for a penny
stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
. fa
/
\
X
/
When
a MAN
tells you
that he has used
Calvert’s nearly all
his life,
that Calvert’s has
kept his teeth per-
fect when most
men of his age
have parted with
theirs—
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth!
tee
d
i
a
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Work of Inigo Jones
“X.”: It is good news that the Govern-
ment has decided to inquire into long-
range forecasting, but it is a pity that
Inigo Jones, the Queensland investigator,
has been left out of the scheme of things.
“Indigo” has been working on the prob-
lem for 15 or 20 years. Though he
admits imperfections, some of his fore-
casts have been remarkably accurate.
The Inigo Jones theory is something
like this. The force that tends to pro-
duce our rains comes from an emana-
tion from the sun —not sunspots —and
this emanation is subject to the gravita-
tional attraction of large heavenly
bodies. When these come within range,
as they do periodically, their mass
attracts part of the emanation to them-
selves in a manner similar to that in
which some of the radium emanations
are influenced by magnetism. When this
happens the rainfall decreases and
promising changes fail to mature.
This theory, the most interesting part
of Jones’s work, does not attempt to
state when and how much rain will fall
at a particular place, but can be taken
as a guide as to whether a certain year
will be generally above or below normal
rainfall. On this principle Jones fore-
cast the dry years of 1935-6-7, and we all
know with what accuracy. Curiously
enough all the great Australian droughts
noted in our records have occurred when
large planets have been in such a posi-
tion that they could exert the gravita-
tional pull referred to. Jupiter, being
the largest, is the worst offender, and
was the prime cause of the ’9B-’O2
drought and the one recently broken.
Uranus prolonged the earlier drought,
and such a combination is not due again
until about 1960.
The theory is fascinating and revolu-
tionary and well worthy of following up,
but unorthodoxy in science seems to
meet the same fate as that in religion.
Although Pasteur had the goods in his
vaccines, his opponents took a lot of con-
vincing, and it looks as if Mr. Jones has
a similar task ahead of him.
“Zedo”: Lord Somers, formerly
Governor of Victoria, is the latest ad-
vocate of “modifying the White Aus-
tralia policy” by the admission of
colored people to assist whites in the
North. His lordship knows about as
much as the rest of them. There are
hundreds of Chinese in Darwin whose
older generations were not too proud to
“assist the whites,” but the second and
third generations would, for the most
part, scorn menial tasks. Also, there are
hundreds of Japanese, Koepangers,
Torres Islanders and others helping to
ease the Europeans’ burden along the
northern coastline, but they do not seem
to have done more to encourage white
settlement than has the teeming native
labor in New Guinea and Papua. The
only parts of the North which show
vigor of intensive growth are those from
which colored labor was expelled a
generation ago. I’ll back Cairns and the
Atherton Tableland for energy and enter-
prise against any other districts in Aus-
tralia.
# * * *
“J. Want”: Said Alderman F. H.
Buss, the mayor: “Bundaberg aldermen,
unlike many others throughout Queens-
land, did not award themselves a salary
in accordance with the new Local Gov-
ernment Act, believing that the people
elected them on the understanding that
their posts were honorary though
onerous”. Bundaberg, after paying its
way ended its year with a credit of
£20,000. There must be something
wrong with a city of a five-figure popula-
tion whose finances are i.n that state.
Possibly it is the beastly sub-Capricornian
climate.
“Dungeness”: A Bulletin par. con-
cerning the profits which accrued to a
Northerner who collected and sold the
vast bottle deposits remaining from the
N.T.’s thirsty past led a Cairns man to
prospect the Gulf country for similar
relics. He sent a motor-lorry to For-
sayth, Georgetown, Croydon and Nor-
manton, a round of 2500 miles, and ar-
ranged also for rail-ship delivery through
nearest port to Brisbane for a variety of
other ancient centres of consuming
thirsts. So far 120,000 empties, valued
at £5OO, have come in.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: A Moreton Bay land-
mark that used to make grandfather
flatten in his sheets as he beat up against
a south-easter, with hopes of hot rum, is
doomed for demolition. It is the Cleve-
land Hotel —or what remains of it after
a storm in 1931 which took the roof off,
and a flash of lightning which brought
“Snap out of it, Marlene — that's no camera !”
the brick chimney through the licensee’s
bedroom ceiling, to his serious damage.
Jack Ruster built it in 1853 for Jack
Cassim, and for many years it was
known as Cassim’s Hotel, a gathering-
place for Bay fishermen and yachtie-blokes
of the generations which saw barmaids’
attire change from crinolines to bustles.
Cassim was a Cingalese. For; a time he
cultivated pearl oysters in the Cleveland
vicinity, producing, so the old hands say,
some quite profitable pearls. He also
ran the mail between Cleveland and Bris-
bane, and acquired much reputation by
swimming miles of flooded country in
and out during a big flood of the 1850’s.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Brisbane is probably
the only city in the world which includes
within its civic boundaries thousands of
acres of virgin cultivable land. It cer-
tainly must be the only one whose
farmer-ratepayers have to use kerosene
lamps for house-lighting with electric
power-lines passing their very gates,
within 11 miles of a £975,000 City Hall.
The catch is that the lines are owned by
the City Electric Light Co., and Bumble-
dom refuses to issue a franchise to the
hated rival to do the much-needed job
that Bumbledom doesn’t want to do be-
cause connecting with the nearest Bumble
main would cost £12,000 of restive rate-
payers’ money. Apart from domestic
amenities, power is needed for driving
irrigation plants and other farm
machinery in a large and potentially
prosperous dairying, fruit-growing and
market-gardening (metropolitan) area.
Last year hundreds of acres of crops
perished while water was running to
waste in nearby creeks for want of power
to lift it.
ifc * # %
“Qwert Yuiop”: Brisbane’s city fathers
are squabbling over what’s to be done
about the 14,000 allotments now on their
hands for unpaid rates, and the more
that keep coming in. They are afraid
to let them go for what they will fetch,
lest a case be made for reduction of
valuations on adjoining properties. Upset
prices are fixed at totals owing in rates
plus interest, but potential buyers argue,
reasonably, that if they are t 6 become
ratepayers themselves they don’t see why
they should pay arrears incurred by other
people. The last offer of 61 lots attracted
half a dozen people and only two bids.
* * * *
“Anakie”: Queensland sapphire
miners have had a tough time the last
few years, what with Asiatic competi-
tion, synthetic stones and the caprices
of ladies; but there is a bright spot in
sales by the Ruby Vale Miners’ Asso-
ciation in U.S.A. The beautiful golden
and green sapphires which no other
country produces in such quality have
brought good prices. A s.2odwt. golden
has sold for £B5 and a green s.o6dwt.
for £6O. Seems that it would be worth
while for southern jewellers to try cut-
stones on the U.S.A. tourist trade.
* * * *
“E.V.”: Long ago the Charters Towers
Water Board borrowed £82,000 for a
water supply. A council took over its
functions; board and council have dis-
tributed £182,000 among the lenders and
still owe £49,804. It is proposed to pay
them off by raising another loan from
the Queensland Government Insurance
Office —a proceeding of which Micawber
would have thoroughly approved.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: As an outcome of Can-
berra’s efforts to discourage Japanese
pearlers from using Darwin as a base
and supply port, a 3000-ton mother-ship,
Shinyo Maru, is now anchored outside
the territorial line. She is equipped to
meet all the needs of the Arafura Sea
fleet, even to hospital accommodation,
medical and nursing services, and a de-
compression chamber for paralysis vic-
tims. An engine-repair plant, 800 tons
of oil for refuelling and a full stock of
foodstuffs are among the outfit. Shell
fished by the fleet will be stored on
board, to be picked up by carriers from
the Carolines.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Melbourne is having a North-
ern Territory exhibition, sponsored by
the Commonwealth Government, in the
Town Hall. As an encouragement to im-
migrants and hikers, a map has been de-
signed to show that the Territory is so
big that it took one man six months to
photograph its main features. Also there
are a blacktracker, snakes, barking
spiders, a termite nest, honeypot-ants
and a transparent lizard. The Larrakia
and a model of the Darwin josshouse
seem to have been forgotten ; and there
will be no display of mining prospectuses
so far as I can hear. But, on the whole,
the resources of the N.T. as they appeal
to Canberra and reporters seem to be
pretty fairly represented.
* * * *
“Narine Cubby”: M. S. Daws owns
a paddock in N.S.W. —on the Barwon.
Also a dog. R. J. Riley owns a paddock
in Queensland —on the Barwon. Also a
cow and calf. Cow and calf crossed the
river into Daws’s N.S.W. paddock.
Daws’s dog proceeded to drive them
back to their own State. It is alleged
that Riley surged up in Queensland and
fired at the dog, which was in the river
with Strawberry and daughter. The
river is the border. The dog collapsed
on the N.S.W. side of the river. Riley
was prosecuted in N.S.W. at Mungindi, a
town through which the border runs.
A harassed P.M. has adjourned to make
up his mind exactly what is a border
and where, and whether a N.S.W. Court
has power to convict a man who stands
in Bananaland and fires at a dog in
N.S.W.
* * * *
“Zedo”: One spot which the flying-
boat mail-service has revived is Brisbane’s
old port of Pinkenba. Every Queens-
land pre-war pressman knew Pinkenba in
days when monsters among mail steamers
ran to 7000 tons, and not even the
Kumano Maru or the 3000-ton St.
Albans would risk the 14-mile trip up
the river to the city. As late as 1911
it was uncommon for any ship to land
more passengers at Pinkenba than now
come off each flying-boat, and to land
was usually a passport to a long inter-
view, for landing at Pinkenba meant
waiting hours for a train. From Pinkenba
I drove to Brisbane in a buggy with
Graham Bell, inventor of the telephone.
From Pinkenba I walked to Clayfield with
Jack London. I saw Tommy Burns race
a trainer and a porter for exercise on
the smellful flats. And how quietly they
used to get rid of prohibited immigrants!
A whisper from the Customs and we
were mum as a matter of public policy.
What cared we if the test in Bulgarian
was read to some goggling foreigner from
Irkutsk or Bonin by a linguist who did
not even know where Bulgaria was?
-r * * *
“X.T.”: Co-ordination of the spelling
of place-names is an old need in Aus-
tralia. A committee of heads of rail-
ways, postal and other departments iz at
work on it in Queensland. There are
some pretty muddles to be straightened
out. One town on the Q. s.-w. railway
began life as Yuelba or Yulebah. Then
the Railways plumped for Yeulba and
the G.P.0., which had previously stuck
to Yuleba, followed them. Latest Com-
monwealth maps differed from the
G.P.0., sticking to Yuleba.- This form
has been adopted.


*OR T '/ff
EMPIRE'S MILLIONS
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
6AM’s new power of 1000
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B . KNOCKS PAGES.
Electric Fence for Farms.
Closely associated with recent radio
development is the idea of energising
a simple fence —a single insulated wire
placed on posts about 18in. high—with
pulsating current of very low amperage,
but sufficient voltage to render a harm-
less shock to animals coming into con-
Fig. 1. —Pictorial diagram and circuit of a six-volt electrical fence control unit.
tact with the wire. A year ago a
Bulletin reader wrote asking the Radio
Editor if it would be possible to put such
an idea into operation for a small com-
pound for the isolation of diseased pigs,
The reply suggested using a 6-volt ac-
cumulator, a vibrator unit as used for
“batteryless” radio receivers and a suit-
Fig. 2. —The 32-volt type is similar in principle.
able transformer. Trials showed the
scheme to be a complete success ; the
animals, after brushing their legs against
the charged wire a few times, instinctively
kept away. The simplicity of the instal-
lation saved a great deal of . expense in
the erection of fencing.
The current issue of “Radio World,”
(U.S.A.) deals at length with this subject
of electrical fences, and the main points
are here reviewed for the benefit of
country readers of this page. The object
of a fence control unit is to supply
effective, yet safe, voltage to the insulated
wire. The return of the unit is connec-
ted to a suitable earth. Any animal
or person standing on the ground and
coming into contact with the wire will
receive a shock. In U.S.A. a large
variety of fence control units has been
placed on the market, but essentially
all are designed for operation on three
standard types of electrical power avail-
able on the farm. In districts where
power lines are available, 110 volt A.C.
units are used. In such Australian dis-
tricts the supply will be mostly 240 volts
A.C. In other places, 32-volt units are
used for existing home power plants,
and 6-volt units are operated from ac-
cumulators or even high capacity dry
cells.
Pulses Obtained from D.C.
Since in all units a transformer is
employed to step up the voltage, the D.C.
voltage obtainable from the 6 or 32-volt
supply must first be interrupted and
changed into pulsating D.C., by means of
vibrators or other mechanical or electrical
interrupters. The diagrams shown here
illustrate the basic application of the three
most useful types.
In all cases the interrupted D.C. voltage
or the A.C. voltage is supplied to a suit-
able transformer which steps up the
voltage and places the potential on the
fence and ground. The design of the
transformer is important to make the unit
effective and safe at all times. F<?r
example, the 6-volt transformers are
designed to become saturated on high
current requirements on the secondary,
and thereby have safety limitations. The
A.C. fence-control transformers are of
the current limiting type, and have a
maximum current available on short cir-
cuits of only Bma. In many units neon
or ordinary filament type bulbs are used
to indicate when the unit is operating
and also when the fence is shorted. These
features are shown in the circuit diagrams.
Fig. 1 is the circuit with values of the
6-volt type, Fig. 2 of the 32-volt type, and
Fig. 3 of the A.C. type. In each case a
single wire is used, placed 15in. to 18in.
above ground for fencing in sheep, goats,
and pigs, and 30in. to 36in. for cattle and
Fig. 3 .—A special transformer is needed for this
application from an A.C. power line.
horses. The fence posts may be of light
material and spaced as much as 50ft.
apart. The wire is, of course, held to the
posts by means of insulators.
Not only are these units useful to the
farmer, but they can also be used for
protecting gardens and parked cars. The
assembly and installation are similar to
radio work, and provided the units are
made up by a competent radio service-
man or manufacturer there should be no
trouble in obtaining the desired results.
A 100 ampere-hour 6-volt accumulator
would operate one of these units for
several weeks on one 'charge, and the
32-volt type can be easily operated from
an existing home lighting plant. The A.C.
type, of course, can run continuously or
as required without any battery charging
considerations.
D.B.K.
Radio Comment.
“D.8.K.”: Cabled that when Germany
annexed Austria the Archduke Anton
was arrested for operating a secret
radio station.” The monthly Inter-
national Amateur Radio Union bulletin,
published in the June issue of “QST,”
has a report from the 'Archduke, well
known to amateur radiomen throughout
the world as OE3AH. He says he has
not been interfered with, and he was
taking part in the annual DX con-
test. The Austrian amateur society had
amalgamated with the German body.
Probably the only difference affecting
former Austrian amateurs is that the
prefix OE in the callsigns will now be
replaced by the German prefix DE.
56mc. Activity in U.S.A.
Following on the May and June
“five-metre panic” during the last two
years, results on the ultra-short-wave
56mc. band have completely eclipsed any
previous work in U.S.A. From “Radio’s”
associate editor W. M. Conklin comes a
mass of reports as to the possible de-
velopment of 56mc. DX. In practically
every instance of the commencement of
DX conditions on five metres, evidence
that such conditions were likely to be
present was forthcoming in the form of
very short skip conditions on 28mc. and
sometimes on 14mc. Many of those who
keep a check on the two lower frequency
bands sensed that things were likely to
happen on five.
Prominent was W4EDD, of Florida,
who put such a strong signal over the
whole of eastern U.S.A. The band
opened on May 12, and by the end of
June contacts were being made every-
where. Conditions on the west coast were
similar. W7’s and W6’s worked up and
down the west coast with all the ease
of the lower frequencies, and the general
opinion is that the behavior of the five-
metre band when given to 300-1600 mile
DX is far superior to communication on
10 or 20 metres.
In Herndon, Virginia, W3RL made
some aerial checks whilst listening to
W9’s. He found that rotation of a four-
element beam gave very little directional
effect. Because of the usual sharpness
of the beam this may indicate signal
arrival from a very high angle. The
pioneer station W2JCY worked 35 DX
stations, including one 310 miles distant
in New York State. W2JCY also noticed
no difference in the signal strength of
DX when rotating his beam horizontally.
After numerous measurements of the
vertical angle he decided that most DX
signals come in at 40deg. above the
horizon, all being between 35deg. and
50deg. Such high angles suggest either
a tilted layer, a gradual curve in the path
or a layer at a virtual height of some
350 miles.
WBCIR needs only the sixth and
seventh U.S.A. districts now to have
covered the whole country on five metres.
He asks for more emphasis on crystal
control, increased power, beam aerials
and better receivers. During this five-
metre DX period it was noticed that
many modulated oscillators didn’t get
through because of their broad mushy
signals. In St. Joseph, Missouri, W9CFE
was driving down a street with a trans-
ceiver in his ear and worked with W2MO
in New York for 15 minutes.
In all districts modulated oscillators
caused considerable inter-station inter-
ference, and it is evident that those
who use self-excited transmitters missed
a lot of contracts.
A European report is to hand to
the effect that the Englishman G6DH
heard Swedish SMSSN. When this station
was heard G6DH was following the
highest frequency signals from 40mc. up,
hearing harmonics and carriers above
55mc. In the edrly afternoon after six
hours’ listening, he heard a carrier get
stronger and finally sign SMSSN. It
lasted 10 minutes, peaking at R 7. Trans-
mission was automatically keyed, and
faded out before a call would have done
any good.
The use of regular amateur band re-
ceivers for 56mc. is increasing in U.S.A.
The method, of operation requires the use
of the oscillator on 28mc., with a five-
metre tuned .circuit coupled to the aerial
between grid and earth in place of the
regular grid clip. W2AMJ recommends
the construction of receivers that are as
selective as they would be on other bands,
rather than the continuance with compar-
tively broadly-tuned receivers merely for
the sake of the modulated oscillator trans-
missions. Unstable self-excited trans-
mitters are unreadable on very selective
five-metre superhets, and the widespread
use of sharply-tuned receivers would go
a long way to more frequent DX work-
ing as the self-excited men would have
to go crystal-controlled to be in the pic-
ture at all. WSEHM says that R 5 to R 6
signals are necessary on a superhet be-
fore they can be heard at all with a good
super-regenerator. He makes no attempt
to copy any but the more stable trans-
missions and works stacks of stations.
There have been discoveries regarding
aerials. As far as DX beyond 500 miles
is concerned there isn’t much difference
between verticals and horizontals. An
aerial with more gain at the useful angles
between 2deg. and lOdeg. a hove the
horizon should be superior to one of
lower gain regardless of polarisation.
Fading may be different on horizontals
compared with verticals. A vertical
will have a maximum where the hori-
zontal will have a null, and vice versa.
This suggests using two receivers on
modulated signals, with either vertical
and horizontal aerials at the same height,
or aerials separated by at least two wave-
lengths. The transmitter at W4EDD
uses only a pair of 809’s, with 150 watts
input with a horizontal Yagi aerial. The
receiver is a six-valve super, with resist-
ance-coupled I.F. stages, and it was found
that better selectivity is needed for DX
when hundreds of signals come through
at once.
The complete report of individual ac-
tivity during this May-June period of
1938 in U.S.A. would take up too much
space. It was a big step forward in the
development by amateurs of 56mc., work-
ing over fairly long distances. U.S.A.
is fortunate in having thousands of
amateur stations ready for action on the
band at a moment’s notice, whereas in
Australia it is a very slow process of
getting together a few keen experimenters
who are interested in such work. De-
spite this, the five-metre band is destined
to be a very important communication
channel in Australia as elsewhere.
VK2NO.
Amateur Chatter.
Visitors to Sydney recently were VKs
4JX and 4JP, the latter on his way home
from U.S.A., where he spent two years
at the Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology. He is very enthusiastic about
five metres after seeing and hearing so
much of this band on the other side of
the Pacific, and is making immediate
plans to get busy at his Brisbane location.
This means that the VK4’s around the
northern city will have a first-rate station
to rely upon in the near future. Over
1000 prominent amateur stations were
visited throughout U.S.A.
Probably the desire for high-gain direc-
tive aerial arrays on five metres is a
waste of time so far as DX is concerned,
although valuable for short-range point-
to-point working. It was noticed in most
instances during the recent two months
five-metre DX in U.S.A. that directivity
and polarisation meant little or nothing
when DX came through. Signals ap-
peared to arrive from all directions, so
that it seems possible that five-metre sig-
nals of a DX nature obey laws which
are yet to be determined. There must be
some corresponding period in the South-
ern Hemisphere, and it is hoped that
there will be more activity among VKs
during the coming summer. Results can
only be obtained with a reasonable num-
ber of stations on the air, and a constant
check is needed on short-skip conditions
on 10 metres as a guide to five-metre
DX. Most reliable source of such infor-
mation is VK2GU of Canberra (F.C.T.)
—he prophesied the conditions of
13/3/’3B when VKSZU was heard by
ZL4DQ in M.L.
As a result of the Cairo conference
the amateur fares badly, and there ap-


mm
Wm
r
w
w
The same valves that bring speedy help by
ambulance are the best tonic for your radio
set. A regular overhaul of your radio will
give better, and brighter programmes. See
your local supplier and . . .
be sure to Re-valve with new micro-sensitive
RARIOTRONS
The World's Standard Radio Valves
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.)
“Give him a start, Henry — he's not as big as you!”
pears little chance of regaining what was
once solely amateur territory. It is no
fault of the amateur delegates; they did
a man-sized job. The new frequency
allocations become effective in Septem-
ber, 1939. The 7mc. band will be prac-
tically useless if and when short-wave
broadcasters commence to “share” the
higher frequency end with amateurs —
amateurs are within their right in work-
ing anywhere between 7000 kc. and
7300 kc. For several years commercial
telegraphy stations in many parts of the
world have deliberately trespassed on the
amateurs’ scant 300 kc., so that the pres-
ence of the short-wave broadcasters in
W. A. OLDFIELD face to face with the television
camera. He recently appeared in the B.B.C.'s
regular television programme “Picture Page.”
the band will merely legalise the posi-
tion.
Cairo has its effect on the future of
the five-metre band, with commercial
television stations allocated from 56mc.
to 58.5mc., but it should not worry Aus-
tralian amateurs for a long time to come.
On 17/8/’3B VK2NO was in com-
munication on 7mc. with VKs 2DN
(Deniliquin, N.S.W.) and SZU (Pros-
pect, S.A.), and arranged for continuous
test schedules through the summer
months on 56mc. with these stations.
Every Sunday from 24/8/’3B VK2NO
will be transmitting C.W. on 56mc. com-
mencing at 3.30 p.m. Sydney time with
vertically polarised array directed south-
west. Transmission from the Sydney end
will be at alternate five-minute periods,
listening for the two southerners between.
At 4 p.m. a check will be made with
VK2DN and VKSZU on 7mc. to note
results, if any. It will be recalled that
VK2DN heard ICW signals on 56mc.
from VK2NO on 27/6/’37, and VKSZU
was recently heard in M.L. by ZL4DQ.
Both stations are equipped with new
receivers to deal with C.W. signals. It is
anticipated that other Sydney stations
taking part in these tests will be VKs
2EM, 2AZ and 2WJ.
The strength of the five-metre signal
from VK2ABC/2LZ at Wentworth Falls,
N.S.W., has increased considerably, this
station being RB-9 on the evening of
17 / 8 /’3B. In Sydney VK2AZ has de-
cided to stick to five-metre experiments
solely in future, and will sell his 20- and
10-metre gear. VK2VN was heard call-
ing CQ with crystal-controlled C.W. on
five metres during the evening of
17/8 / ’3B, but could not be contacted.
Possibly the receiver at VK2VN was
on 10 or 20 metres. A temporary loss
to the Sydney group of 56mc. experi-
menters is VK2MQ, in hospital for
several weeks.
At week-ends the once maligned 7mc.
band shows less QRM than does 14mc.
DX is workable in the evenings, and
several Americans were contacted with
100 p.c. QSOs. The Archbold Expedi-
tion station, PK6XX, in Dutch N.G.,
was heard strongly on ’phone, and C.W.
at the low frequency end of the band.
On Sunday mornings, however, 7mc. is
very much a “record-grinder’s” stamp-
ing-ground and there is far too much
of the imitation broadcast-
ing station —it will inevi-
tably lead to Vigilance
trouble.
In these days of Class
AB and Class B modulation,
it is unusual to find a station
sticking'' to single-choke
Heising and making a
thoroughly good job of it.
VK2 A D R of Mascot,
N.S.W., is an outstanding
example. His final stage
uses a 6L6G, and the modu-
lator is a similar valve with
S.C. Heising and excellent
quality. High power is not
necessary to do a very good
’phone job on 7mc. provided
an efficient aerial is used.
Most aerials these days are
designed with an eye to 20
metres. The twisted-pair
doublet will take a lot of
beating on 40, as was amply proved by
the Mackay 1937 expedition to Centralia,
when VKSNO was a familiar call nightly
in Sydney from the Tanami base location.
Twenty metres is more than ever a
babel of QRM, and it becomes increas-
ingly difficult to get a satisfactory DX
QSO in during week-end afternoons. At
present English ’phones are breaking
through well at about 4 p.m. Sydney
time, one outstanding station being
G2TR in Bournemouth on 16/8/’3B.
VK2NO.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Location, Thargomindah, Queensland.
Receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-
Waver (B. 28/4/’37).
In the mornings the 31-metre band is
very good, the best station being KZRM,
Paris (closes 8 a.m.), DJN, GSB, and a
Cuban on 31 metres dead. The 25-metre
band is also very good, the best being
RNE, 2RO, TPA3 (closes at 8 a.m.) and
OLR.
On the 19-metre band the best stations
are GSO, DJR (transmitting for South
America) and DJB (for North America).
Later, YDC and Paris are among the
top-notchers from 9 a.m. GSG on 16.86
can hold its own with the 19-metre
stations during the mornings, closing at
11.20 a.m. Good reception can be had
on the three bands throughout the whole
day, and DJE is particularly good dur-
ing the afternoon. RNE has not been
heard at night for some time now, and
the 19-metre stations are poor as a rule,
even YDC being almost inaudible.
GSG and GSJ are fair to good for a
while at night, with W3XAL showing up
occasionally. At 8 a.m.
WIXAL is nice and clear and
improves until closing at 8.30
a.m. Although this station is
good copy, it is
not so strong as
2RO, which also
closes soon after
8.30 a.m. VLR
opening at 3 p.m.
is the strongest
station on the air.
VK2ME is very
fair between 3
and 5 p.m.
On 49.5 metres
WBXAL is con-
sistently good at
night from about
10 p.m. when a
crowd of Cubans
and other South
Americans can be
logged on either
side. In general,
reception condi-
tions are fairly
good.
K. B. G.
[ln response to several inquiries: The
Ideal Battery Tuned R.F. Receiver, as
described in B. 28 /4/’37, is of a type not
manufactured commercially. It is of
straightforward design with a separately-
tuned R.F. stage, regenerative detector,
and two stages of audio operating a small
permag. midget speaker. The valves are
of the six-volt type, and in the case of
these Queensland reports are operated
from a six-volt accumulator and 135
volts of B-battery. The receiver can be
used from the 240-volt A.C. supply with
a suitable heater transformer and power
pack without any alterations. The re-
ceiver used by “K.8.G.” is the original
as described in the technical article.
—D. B. K.]
New Handbooks by "Radio."
The publishers of the Los Angeles
(U.S.A.) monthly, “Radio” have recently
added two new text-books to their list of
publications— The Radio Antenna Hand-
book and The Radio Noise Reduction
Handbok.” The antenna book runs to
112 pages, and deals with every known
form of radiating system and methods of
support and ideas for mechanical and
electrically-rotated beams. The diagrams,
charts and illustrations are profuse.
The noise-reduction book is a 44-page
production, and is invaluable for the
technical bookshelf. In six chapters it
goes through types of interference,
analysis and identification, noise-
balancing systems, noise-limiters, sup-
pressing noise at the source, and miscel-
laneous new circuits. Both publications
can be obtained from Angus and Robert-
son, Ltd., Sydney, or McGill’s Agency,
Melbourne.
IN NEXT ISSUE
To meet the need for a receiver to
cover the increasingly important
ultra-short-wave ranges, the Ultra-
Searcher will be described. This is
a three-valve receiver for headphone
use employing a 956 acorn T.R.F.
stage. With two sets of coils the
tuning range covers from 4.5 to 1 2
metres, taking in the amateur 5 and
1 0 metre bands.
Trade Notes.
Of considerable interest to amateur
transmitters are the new Premier crystals
and crystal-holders now available in
Sydney from John Martin Ltd., 116
Clarence-street, in 160, 80, and 40 metre
ranges with specified frequencies on the
holders. The holders are of different
types to satisfy the needs of transmitter
design, and are made in ceramic, with
metal covers. All types are dust-proof
and fitted with banana plugs to fit suitable
sockets.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
Does an A.C/D.C. receiver work better on
direct current than on alternating current? —
701.
The receiver should work equally well on
either D.C. or A.C., but there is a possibility
that somewhat less audio gain may under some
conditions be experienced with the D.C. The
rectifier is usually employed as a voltage
doubler for A.C., consequently there is more
reserve D.C. power for distribution through
the receiver after rectification.
* * * *
(1) Address of the publishers of the “Aus-
tralian Radio Service Manual” ( B. 13 /7/ ’3B) ?
(2) Price?— 7oo.
(1) C/o “Electrical and Radio World,” Strand
Press, Box 1538 V, G.P.0., Brisbane, Queens-
land. (2) 12s. 6d., with flexible covers, and
15s. full bound.
* * * *
(1) Is there any machine which will generate
enough electricity to charge a large battery in
10 hours, the current being generated by the
sun’s rays through concentration on glass? (2)
If so, where could I get one? (3) Why is it
not used for such purposes as house-lighting?
(4) Any book on the subject? —7o4.
(1) Several power generators using the sun’s
rays have been developed in various parts of the
world in the past few years. The one you refer
to is probably that which has a series of mirrors
arranged on a travelling frame in a semi-circle.
The sun’s rays are concentrated from the
mirrors to a central position, where the heat
is so intense as to melt steel in a crucible in
a short space of time. Such a sun-power gene-
rator can easily be employed to supply steam
for small engines, and by this means run a
generator or generators for charging accumu-
lators. The idea is not ordinarily practicable
owing to the large size of the mirror assembly.
(2) It is doubtful if such apparatus is yet
marketed commercially anywhere. (3) No doubt
this will be done in time. (4) Descriptions have
appeared from time to time in such magazines
as “Popular Science Monthly” and “Popular
Mechanics,” U.S.A.


H.V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD.
THE NEW
flljgLZ
BALL & ROLLER BEARING-
MASSEY HARRIS
jblcducZic7i
IN MOWING EQUIPMENT
★ CLEAN CUTTING ★LIGHT DRAUGHT
★ SMOOTH RUNNING ★LONG LIFE
Exhaustive research, scientific design and extreme care in
manufacture have all been proved RIGHT by thorough tests
in the field. So now we proudly announce the new Massey
Harris Oil-Bath Mower, a machine well worthy ;to carry
forward the Massey Harris tradition of “Greatest efficiency
at low cost.”
•
A few of the features that make it a brilliant success are
shown at right. These and its many other advantages are
fully illustrated in a new 16-page catalogue; ask the local
agent for your free copy, or write direct.
ATTACHMENTS AVAILABLE
FOR MANY PURPOSES
SIZES: 4ft.. 4ift., sft. si«.
and 6ft. cut.
H.V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
Concord West (near Sydney) ; and 27-29 Broadway, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth and Brisbane.
??
?
OIL. BATH 1
GEAR CASE.
Opened to
show perfect
matching of
bevel wheel
and pinion. Wheel
turns in bath of oil. ,
1
Powerful,
anti.
friction
meshing
MAIN
DRIVE
GEARS.
Oil-bath
lubrication.
??
Double - row
self-aligning
BALLRACE
used on
pitman head
Cool run-
ning, perfect
alignment.
??
BALL BEARING,
washer and posi-
tive OIL SEAL
are used at front
of crankshaft.
Large ROLLER BEARINGS carry
main axle. Friction conquered!
Converter steel FINGERS. Stream*
lined and milled to perfect exact-
itude; Interchangeable.
Renewable
steel bush.
?
MILLED KNIFE HEAD.
All knife sections are of high
carbon steel, specially oil-hardened.


NTS
LYS
ft
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
■*--•
;■ '
5^
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Wool and Artificials.
“Ghanam”: While Australian graziers
are being fed with doses of alarmist
propaganda, not a single Australian
wool-selling firm of importance has
joined the gloom-spreaders, nor is the
Imperial Economic Committee alarmed
at the influence of artificials on the mar-
ket. The last survey of the committee
shows the world’s raw wool production
at 3,826,000,0001 b. of greasy in 1937,
slightly less than the 1928 figure. Aus-
tralasian figures were 1,313,000,0001 b.
against 1,231,000,0001 b. in 1928-29.
Summarising the position in the later
part of 1937, the committee says that
more important than the new textiles in
reducing prices were the uncertainty of the
international and economic situation, the
decrease in industrial activity in U.S.A.,
the difficulty experienced in France in
meeting the costs of social legislation,
the probability of restricted buying by
Japan and the continuance of German
and Italian plans for self-sufficiency.
Despite the supposed competition of
artificials, steps are being taken to en-
courage domestic wool
production in Germany
and other European
countries.
The decline in British
manufacturing activity
during the close of last
year the committee
attributes to “the accumulation of
stocks of finished goods, rather than
to a decline in retail trade.” There
was expansion of the wool-tissue export
trade. Australian factories processed
80,900,0001 b. greasy wool against
38,500,0001 b. 10 years ago. The Aus-
tralian export of tops last year was an
all-time record. Canada took over
2,000,0001 b. and Britain, U.K. and
Mexico were buyers.
The committee’s outlook on the 1938
season is that contraction in U.S.A. buy-
ing and little improvement from Ger-
many and Italy will result in some carry-
over—though the full effects of our
drought were not known when the re-
port was written. Nevertheless, with
stocks light in some European countries,
there appears to be no doubt that most
of the available wool will be needed, as
the use of substitutes is still definitely
limited. Consumer purchasing power has
suffered certain setbacks, but the lower
price of wool should stimulate sales.
Finally, “any improvement in the in-
ternational situation, as for example in
the relaxation of trade restrictions, could
not fail to have an immediate effect
thereon.” All of which suggests that arti-
ficials are overrated as competitors with
wool. Pasture improvement, more wool
per sheep and more sheep per acre are
the wool industry’s most potent weapons.
Those who advocate fixing of minimum
prices are their own enemies. Even if
Australia increased her fine-wool pro-
duction 25 per cent., the output could be
sold payably.
A Berlin cable remarks that although
rayon and staple fibre production have
increased from 28,000 tons to 150,000
tons in five years, Germany still has to
import 693,000 tons of fibres, including
64,000 tons of wool.
Those who argue the rayon-staple fibre
case forget that wool is not the only
textile within its price field. Indeed, it
should be from the nature of most of it
and its price level, a stronger competitor
with cotton. But the fact remains that in
1937 cotton production was 18,480,0001 b.
against 12,702,000,0001 b. in 1929. Every
natural fibre with which artificial fibre
competes or can be blended has in-
creased in world production since 1929,
except silk, which has fallen slightly.
The figures—quoted from the June
bulletin of the National City Bank of
New York —show that rayon filament
and staple together produced in the
world totalled 442,000,0001 b. in 1929 and
other competitive textiles —cotton, washed
wool, flax and silk totalled
16,154,00Q,0001b. Last year, rayon pro-
duction had risen to 1,809,000,0001 b., of
which staple fibre, wool’s alleged com-
petitor, bulked at 622,000,0001 b. But
the output of the other textiles had
increased over 43 per cent. to
“Wotcher kidding for NOW, Ma ?”
22,377,000,0001 b. And the rayon pro-
ducts were, therefore,- equal to only
about 8 per cent, of the world supply
of natural textiles.
Breeding Well-covered Carcasses.
“Covering”: It used to be said that a
good wool-covering and a good mutton
carcass could not go together in Corrie-
dales, but recent shows have produced
sheep which, although not typical Corrie-
dales, have had fleeces approaching 60’s
and excellent chunky;carcasses.'
Good carcass and strong wool came
from the Lincoln and poor carcass and
fine wool from merino parents of the
original Corriedales. Such sheep showed
these qualities in a true 50-50 ratio, but
their progeny threw only 25 p.c. of the
same standard Corriedale type, as usually
happens in crossbreeding. Selection boils
down to picking out animals combining
both good qualities, and mating them.
The possibility of developing a revo-
lutionary dual-purpose breed lies in such
selection. Whether it is worthwhile is
another matter. In some districts where
lamb-raising is regarded as the staple side
of the industry and wool as safe insur-
ance, it would be.
Trees and Sheep.
“Zedo”: Why hasn’t tree-growing on
the plains in Queensland and the North-
ern Territory been studied? Thousands
of square miles of otherwise excellent
sheep country are rendered virtually
useless by the lack of shade.
There are, of course, serious difficul-
ties in acclimatising timbers in this kind
of country, which includes much of the
best Mitchell grass area on the Barkly
Tableland, but once scientifically shaded
it should prove infinitely more profitable
than much interior timber land. Briga-
low country is a poor sheep proposition
until it has been ringbarked for some
time and well grazed over with cattle for
a period, and mulga land in its natural
state is not much good.
It would be a sound idea to establish
a few experimental timber plots on the
Barkly, which the Payne Commission
has recommended for sheep. Also, an
experimental farm for the varying types
of sheep might be started there with
advantage, since it will take some time
to acclimatise a suitable animal for per-
manent stocking. The climate runs to
extraordinary daily extremes, and in mid-
winter it is common to be frozen out at
night and to have the temperature near
lOOdeg. at midday.
Wethers present no difficulty—large,
plain frames and medium to strong wool
are basic requirements for this type of
country. But there can be no stable sheep
population in remote Territory areas
without local breeding.
Feeding-off Crops.
“Veteran”: Many young wheat crops
in N.S.W. have been closely fed-off this
season. How they will stand heavy
grazing will depend on late winter and
early spring rains. Many farmers have
been compelled to sacrifice crops to
save their stock. In instances sheep
have been taken on agistment at the
rate of £6O per 1000 per month, and
crowded into wheat paddocks.
Generally in favorable seasons when
crops give promise of rank growth, it
is an advantage to feed-off in north-west
N:S.W. and also in the central and
southern slopes. Yields are improved
thereby. In the main western and
southern areas grazing almost invariably
has proved detrimental. In early districts
the accepted rule has been to take the
sheep off the wheat by the end of June,
and during July in the later districts.
Observers are asking what the effect
of this sheep raid on the crops will be
on the coming harvest. It looks as if
many areas will have been eaten out
never to come again. But wheat has
amazing powers of recovery, and after
the remarkable experiences of the last
two harvests in seasons far from favor-
able, no one can forecast.
Mitchell Grass and Grasshoppers.
“Out West”: Mitchell grass (B.
29/6/’3B) is the main standby for gra-
ziers here in n.-w. Queensland. As a fal-
tener it cannot compare with the softer
grasses (Flinders, Button, etc.) which
grow after the heavy summer rains, but
towards the end of the year, and particu-
larly if light, damaging winter rain has
fallen, it is on Mitchell we rely. As
sheep, naturally, eat out the softer
grasses first, the M.G. remains practi-
cally untouched until August or Sep-
tember, unless the country is heavily
stocked.
In late years the summer rains have
been followed by a ’hopper plague
which generally lasts for a couple of
months until lack of moisture kills them.
So great is the feed that follows the rains
of a good season, that the amount the
’hoppers destroy is barely noticeable;
but as the young shoots of the Mitchell
(the best fodder) are almost the last thing
that remains green, the ’hoppers clean
them to the roots. So the year-end is a
critical time for the grazier.
In northern C.Q. Mitchell needs good
January or February rains for satisfac-
tory seeding. Also, moderate stocking
with sheep undoubtedly improves it. I
recently saw a wonderful body of
Mitchell grass in D. Murphy’s horse
paddock near Kynuna. A mob of
wethers are always run in the paddock
soon after rain. They act as a weeder
by cleaning out the herbage from be-
tween the M.G. tussocks, and they also
pack the earth tight, and so retain
moisture.
Heavy stocking with cattle and horses
tends to obliterate Mitchell. The cattle
pull up most of the young grass, roots
and all. The horses strip the seed by
running the ripe ear through their lips,
as they wander, full-fed, about the
paddock.
Pasture Points.
“Phalaris”: High protein pasture
cannot be grown on a soil of depleted
fertility. To raise the fertility of eaten-
out soils to a standard suitable for rye
grasses, Phalaris, cocksfoot, clover, lime
and super, are all needed —clover, par-
ticularly. It is richer in protein and
minerals than even the best grasses and
a great feed balancer.
The ideal seedbed for grasses and
clovers is firm, but not hard, with a loose
mulch of about lin. on top and ample
moisture to ensure germination. Early
autumn is the best time to sow, but spring
planting pays in the cooler regular rain-
fall districts.
Do not graze new pasture until it is
strongly rooted. Pasture will carry many
more stock if grazed for a few days
and then rested. Continual grazing tends
to damage the crowns of the sweeter
grasses and clovers, making them slow
to come away.again.
Dusty Troughs.
“L.C.”: If sheep refuse to drink from
troughs because the water gets dirty re-
place the troughs with the top sheet of
a 10,000 gallon tank (larger if necessary)
sunk in the ground about 15in. Run
the pipe from the supply tank under the


3998.
)i\h
* \»
(A
yr~
Vh c <
U
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
53 Castlereagh Street,
TRY THEM ON FOR APPEARANCE.
Wear them for comfort.
There’s one thing about an Abbey Riding Boot, it feels as good as it looks.
The high-polishing, strong calf is soft and supple, moulding to the foot like
leather half its weight Made in Brown Willow Calf in full sizes. Leather-lined
throughout. Brown, Price 39/6.
“7/ it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
TRAVEL AT REDUCED FARES
Excursions from and to the Country
FOR SPRING SCHOOL VACATION
State schools will close on Thursday, August 25.
About that time each country district will have at least one
excursion service to and from Sydney and intermediate stations.
Seats and sleeping berths may
be booked now for trains on
which those facilities exist.
In addition to the above series
of Excursions, which has been
arranged for the benefit of school-
teachers, scholars, parents and
others,
RETURN TICKETS AT
SINGLE FARE AND ONE-THIRD
are issued
ANY DAY, BY ANY TRAIN
for travel
ANYWHERE TO ANYWHERE IN N.S.W.
other than journeys wholly within the Metropolitan or
Newcastle Suburban Areas.
All Stationmasters have particulars of these
opportunities for travel at greatly reduced fares.
W. H. Newman,
Secretary for Railways. (93)
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
SATISFIED!
We should say he was!
You will also be agreeably satisfied by the
smooth smoking and aromatic flavour these
Empire Tobaccos give. But more satisfying still
are the ridiculous prices at which we are able
to supply the public. These Empire-grown
tobaccos are manufactured at our own factory
and come direct to you—-no middle profits.
A Briar or Cherry wood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch,
Cigarette Lighter or Holder is included with all
orders over £l. ALL LINES BOTH IN PIPE
AND CIGARETTE BLENDS.
Zig Zags . . . . 5 for 1/-
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY-
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
COMBINED GROWERS !'
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
CO' "WERCIAL ROAD, VALLEY, BRISBANE
sheet to about the centre of the circle and
attach an ordinary float to it. Erect posts
around the outside of the sheet about
4ft. apart and about 2ft. 6in. high, attach-
ing a rail along the top of the posts, also
a strip of old netting ; selvedge the edge
down, below the rail but tied to it.
Leave a gap of about 6in. between
the top of the tank and the netting for
the sheep to drink through. A plain No.
8 wire run through the posts at the
bottom edge of the netting will give
greater strength.
The float should be regulated to keep
the water level about lin. from the top
of the sheet to allow lambs to drink
easily. The top edge should be turned
down, preferably over an iron band, to
remove any risk of sheep cutting their
throats.
Where the ground is too porous to
hold water, an iron bottom would have
to be us£d. A drain plug should be let
into the sheet at ground level so that the
trough can be emptied when necessary.
When filled with water the action of the
wind will drive the dust to one side of
the circle always leaving a clean side
for the sheep to drink at.
These circular troughs are used in our
Westralian district with great success.
Pork and Bacon Export.
“Pappamosca”: Good to see the im-
portance which Dr. Hammond, of the
Cambridge Nutrition Lab., attaches to
Dennis as a possible source of Australian
wealth. In the Argentine they run him
on station properties, not in sties, and
the biggest pig farm has about 50,000
animals.
Hammond points out that in every
country it is some product of which a
surplus can be produced over other nor-
mal needs which form pig industry bases.
In Denmark, Holland and Maoriland, it
is skim, whey and buttermilk ; in Ger-
many, potatoes; in U.S.A., maize;
lucerne in the Argentine; in England
and Canada, low-grade wheat and barley.
The doctor says that skim milk and
potatoes in Tasmania and maize and
skim in Queensland give great scope for
building up the industry, but the other
eastern States are equally well situated.
The factors which now hold back the
business, he says, are mainly high labor
cost and lack of geiieral mechanised
feeding schemes, self-feeders and the pip-
ing of skim from the separator. He
suggests the possibility of central pig-
feeding units round dairy factories
(Maoriland already has a few). Pig
raising could then be confined to small
farm units and pig feeding and topping-
off carried on from the 601 b. stage, on a
butter-milk nucleus at the factory
depots, butter-milk not being suitable
for very young pigs. Farm raising of
porkers would continue on skim, which
supplies a high protein ration.
Before an export trade can be devel-
oped on a large scale, however, a special
pig will need to be produced. For home
curing, our market likes a 100-120 car-
cass, which is 301 b. to 401 b. too light for
the British taste.
Hammond advocates the establishment
of regulated payments and a carcass
test of the progeny of breeding stock
to ensure a universally right type of
breeder. His ideal is a uniform system
of grading throughout the Common-
wealth with payment on grade. In
such a scheme back fat measurements
should play an important part —they are
in vogue in M.L. already.
The doctor follows the M.O.L. page
in commenting on the variance of Aus-
tralian pig types. He cites that on the
N.S.W. Northern Rivers', the Tamworth
is the early-maturing type used for pork
production, while in S.A. the late-matur-
ing long type is used for bacon:
Such lack of uniformity in commercial
characters within a breed makes it no
longer a breed except in name.
It is high time that something was done
to give Australia a national pig for each
of the two main export trades, pork and
bacon.
Rye Grasses on Virgin Land.
“H.A.L.”: It is usually advised when
sowing pasture on newly-cleared land to
use a heavy dressing of super., sow sub.
clover only, and wait until it has built up
soil fertility before introducing rye or
any other grass to make a balanced pas-
ture. That is sound, but many who
take up scrub land cannot wait a few
years before their place becomes pro-
ductive.
A heavy seeding of Wimmera rye will
produce a spectacular growth of fodder
in the first season. But the luxuriant
growth crowds out clover and prevents
ii from setting seed. Next year, having
drained the soil of every scrap of fertil-
ity, the rye is a spindly plant and the
clover is gone.
A mixture of four pounds of sub.
clover, two of lucerne and two of peren-
nial rye per acre is a safer proposition
for the man who needs grass in a hurry.
Per. rye makes very little growth in the
first season, allowing the clover to de-
velop good runners and set plenty of
seed. After the clover has seeded and
wilted, the rye and lucerne continue to
grow and stock will get a fair picking if
only turned on for a few days at a time.
The per. rye makes a far better growth
during the following season, the clover is
thicker and the lucerne plants better able
to stand up to grazing. The paddock
can carry a fair amount of stock except
when the clover is setting seed, and there
is also a green picking during the sum-
mer. The third season should see the
perennial rye well established in a
balanced pasture.
These two perennials not only respond
to any summer rains, but they are also
an insurance against fire damage. In
newly-settled districts, where nearly
everyone is burning scrub and fallen
timber, fire is an ever-present menace;
the man whose pasture consists only of
annuals such as sub. clover and Wim-
mera rye will lose all his feed if the pad-
docks are swept by fire and nothing will
grow to replace it until the following
autumn. A fire will burn perennials
black, but a green tinge shows again
within a few days and it isn’t long be-
fore there is again a picking available.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jayem”: Calves fed on skim milk
often suck each other after they finish
their meal, giving rise to septic con-
ditions, malformed teats and distorted
udders. Keep the calves away from each
other by leg-roping until the taste of
milk has gone, or give them some
crushed or ground meal, bran or pollard
as soon as they have finished the milk.
“Wandi”: You can have a spring
wheelbarrow by screwing two leaves of
an old buggy spring to the under fore-
part of the barrow, eyes down for the
axle to turn in.
“Byromine”: When botflies are busy,
keep an old razor about the horse yard
and every time you catch a horse, shave
the eggs of the fly from front legs and
shoulders. The eggs hatch on the skin
and cause irritation. Licking or biting
the sore part, the horse swallows the
young flies.
“Kyabra”: Old horseshoes make good
guy pegs if used where the ground is
firm. Widen the ends with the pincers,
then ram the two ends home, leaving
enough of the toe of the shoe above
ground to tie the rope to.
“Cockyson”: Herbage ordinarily re-
garded as useless can often be valuable
in times of scarcity. I have seen working
horses kept in good condition on chaffed
dry Red Natal grass cut in an orchard.
A dairyman neighbor feeds his milkers
chaffed blady grass collected on creek
banks and mixed with a little molasses.
Corn husks are good feed for cattle at
any time. They will eat the big broad-
leaf wattle leaves even when scorched
by fire. Chaffed tops of ripening maize,
cut immediately above the cob, may be
fed to milkers with or without other feed.
A little molasses always improves and
makes the feed more palatable.
“Yeno Ham”: Two years ago J. E.
Duck, of Bowthorne (N.S.W.), built twin
silos, filled them with chaffed saccaline
and now can produce enough fodder on
his 64-acres farm to carry his cows
through winter. Since the silos were
built, production of the 35 cows has in-
creased by 10 gallons of milk per day.
He grows lucerne, oats, maize, saccaline
and sub. clover. He crushes grain before
it is fed. Duck won the Hunter River
fodder conservation competition and was
second in the N. Coast championship.


ttDBM
m
-the NEW nut
that gives you...
1 A HIGH PERCENTAGE OF
LAXATIVE LINSEED OIL MEAL
The basis of Meggitt’s new Linseed Balanced Sheep Nut is
pure Linseed Oil Meal. It is to this ingredient that the new nut
owes its beneficial action on the digestive organs, preventing
those digestive troubles which so often lead to losses during
droughts and dry spells.
2 DIGESTIBLE PROTEIN
IN AMPLE QUANTITY
This new nut has a high and uniform content of protein in
easily-digested form, supplying ample quantities of this nutrient
for maintenance and wool production under all conditions. Fed
to ewes, it ensures a high lambing percentage and produces
the adequate flow of milk necessary to the rearing of healthy,
well-grown lambs with a minimum of mortality.
3 100 PER CENT. HIGH QUALITY
CONCENTRATED FOODS
All the ingredients of Meggitt’s new Linseed Balanced Sheep
Nut are of the highest quality. Compounded in carefully
formulated proportions, they combine to form a fodder which
PERION
of
2.000
IBS
f.OR- p
or
SYDNEY
supplies the sheep’s every need in the most economical way.
Furthermore, their absolute purity ensures safety in feeding
under all conditions.
4 BNVARYINC COMPOSITION
AND FEEDING VALUE
There can be no variation in the feeding value of this new nut
as absolute uniformity is assured by the use of latest-type
machinery. Uniform feeding value means, of course, uniformly
good results.
AND NOTE THE NEW SHAPE
These new nuts are moulded in
hexagonal form to prevent waste
and enable sheep to pick them up
easily.
Supplies are available now. Order either direct from Meggitt,
Limited, or through your local store, produce merchant or
stock and station agent.
fiS ' m,M
m
:
Httcl
ftp
SWEEP^
$e
.X- ■ -
L&
ioo
HET
il PA^^.,
o«dw« w !
WH
&
mt
TTtli
r O,
For Free Ration Advice write to
MEGGITT LTD., BOX 1555 E. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
MEGGITT'S
SHEEP - NUTS
Meesritt, Ltd. Head Office: 67 York Street, Sydney. Works: Parramatta, Melbourne & Adelaide.


The BENGALL Hand Forged Blue Steel RAZOR
??
A Creation of
Scientific Heat
Treatment . . .
Unique and attractive in appearance, perfect in
construction, it gives better and longer service
than any Razor you have ever used.
Sold with a definite Guarantee of Satisfaction.
Sizes, iin. fin., 2in., Black Handle .... 12/6
Xylo. Handle 15/-
Obtainable from all AVliolesale and Retail Houses.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• FREELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and earn
in Spare Time!
The most thorough and practical
Course of Training ever written !
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School oE Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The r *Bht of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to bell or To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, own typewriter, neat and
accurate, used to working for writers, seeks
typing work.—325.
Sydney stenographer wants casual evening
work, own typewriter.—283.
Handyman, Sydney, used to gardening and
handling small boats, seeks situation. —323.
Man, Sydney, active, steady, kitchen and
houseman, experienced guesthouse and hospital
work, wants situation with a private family,
or country.—303.
Young man, Sydney, with modern light utility
truck, wants full-time job with an established
firm requiring city and suburban delivery.—
309.
Young man (24), Vic., well educated, office
exp., knowledge rural conditions, seeks posi-
tion on country newspaper.—286.
1932-33 Dodge instruction book wanted. —
276.
To buy, bookbinder’s plough. State full par-
ticulars. —319.
To hear from person willing to carry out re-
search work for literary history. Share profits
of book. —321.
Words of poem containing the line “Live for
the world of the great to be.” —186.
Words of recitation “A Bushman’s Farewell
to Queensland.” —312.
Words of poem beginning “Sound the loud
timbrel o’er Egypt’s dark sea.”—-301.
Words of poem entitled “The Stringybark
Tree” containing the lines: —
The roof that long sheltered my brother and me
Was cut from the bark of the stringybark tree.
—200.
Words of poem entitled “Defeat” containing
the lines: —
Life! You cheat of the world.
Stand up, that I may see you as you are.
—294.
Words of poem written against the cockatoo,
the last two lines of the first verse being: —
The biggest curse in all this earth !
The blooming cockatoo.
—320.
Words of the poem “The Stockman’s Tale,”
beginning “The campfire was burning brightly.”
—278.
Words of song containing the lines “I was
travelling with some sheep and my mates were
fast asleep.”—237.
Words of poem beginning “Saint Peter stood
guard at the Golden Gate.”—175.
Information Sought.
From where and when did Amelia Earhart
take off on the round-the-world flight on which
she was lost ? What was her route up to the
time she became lost, and where and when was
she lost ? —379.
On June 1, 1937, she left Miami, Florida
(U.S.A.), with Capt. Frederick J. Noonan as
co-pilot, on a 27,000-mile flight around the
world at the equator. It was the first attempt
ever made to encircle the globe at middle lati-
tudes. She flew by way of Porto Rico, Vene-
zuela, Dutch Guiana, Brazil; then across the
South Atlantic to Senegal, French West Africa;
French Equatorial Africa, Anglo-Egyptian
Sudan, Eritrea, India, Siam, Singapore, Dutch
East Indies, Timor Island, Darwin and Lae
(New Guinea). She became lost on July 2
while on the 2556-mile hop from Lae to
Howland Island.
* * * *
What did the American authorities consider
the cause of the Zeppelin disaster at Lake-
hurst ( U.S.A .) in 1937 ?— 340.
St. Elmo’s fire —the common name for the
electrical phenomenon brush discharge—was
assigned as the probable cause of the disaster
by the Dept, of Commerce after exhaustive
investigation. The Dept, of Commerce re-
ported : “The cause of the accident was the
ignition of a mixture of free hydrogen and air.
Based upon the evidence, a leak at or in cells
four and five caused a combustible mixture of
hydrogen and air to form in the upper stem
part of the ship in considerable quantity; the
first appearance of an open flame was on the
top of the ship and a relatively short distance
forward of the upper vertical fin. The theory
that a brush discharge ignited such mixture
appears most probable.”
* t * * *
Ancestors of E. J. Brady? Where and
when was he born, and where was he educated ?
What papers did he edit, and list of publica-
tions ? —337.
The last lineal descendant of Hugh Brady,
first Protestant Bishop of Meath, Ireland, he
was born at Carcoar (N.S.W.) on August 7,
1869, and was educated at Sydney and Washing-
ton (U.S.A.). He spent his early life in the
Australian bush, edited “Australian Workman”
(1892), “Australian Worker” (1901), and was
the proprietor of “Grip,” published at Grafton
(N.S.W.). Publications include The Ways of
Many Waters (verse, 1889) The Earthen Floor
(verse,. 1902), Bushland Ballads (verse, 1910),
The King’s Caravan (prose, 1911), River Rovers
(prose, 1911), Bells and Hobbles (verse, 1911),
Australia Unlimited (prose, 1918), The House of
the Winds (verse, 1919), The Land of the Sun
(prose, 1923), The Prince’s Highway (prose,
1926), and Wardens of the Sea (verse, 1934).
Birthplaces of members of the A.I.F.? —343.
Vic. 94,722, N.S.W. 90,350, Q’land 29,353,
S.A. 28,861, W.A. 8642, Tas. 13,904, U.K.
66,321, M.L. 4464, other British possessions
23,246, foreign countries 3387.
* * * *
To what members of the British forces was
the 1914 Star and Clasp awarded? —334.
It was awarded to all those officers and men
of the British and Indian Expeditionary Forces,
including civilian doctors and nurses, and others
employed in military hospitals, who actually
served in France or Belgium on the establish-
ment of a unit between August 5 and the
midnight of November 22-23, 1914. Officers
and men of the Royal Navy, Royal Marines,
Royal Naval Reserve and Royal Naval Volun-
teer Reserve, who served on the establishment
of a unit landed for shore service in France
or Belgium between the same dates are also
eligible, but not those who served afloat. A
clasp to the Star was awarded to recipients
of the Star who actually served under the fire
of the enemy in France and Belgium between
August 5 and midnight of November 22-23, 1914.
* * * *
What 10 countries are the largest producers
of rayon? —33l.
Japan, 330,000,0001 b., U.S.A. 312,000,0001 b.,
Great Britain 119,700,0001 b., Germany
110,000,0001 b., Italy 104,300,0001 b. France
" 48,000,0001 b., Netherlands 22,700,0001 b., Belgium
17,000,0001 b., Canada 15,675,0001 b. and Poland
13,800,0001 b. Figures are for 1937.
* * * *
Mineral output of Japan for the last two
years for which figures are available? —350.
Gold 18,293,869 grammes and 22,198,000
grammes, copper 69,309,506 kilos and 77,973,000
kilos, lead 7,442,361 kilos and 8,883,000 kilos,
zinc 34,191,261 kilos and 39,066,000 kilos, pig-
iron 370,689 metric tons and 342,647 metric
tons, steel 1,338,891 metric tons and 1,750,914
metric tons, chromite 35,969 metric tons and
38,476 metric tons, white arsenic 3,161,344
metric tons and 127,000 metric tons. Figures
are for 1935 and 1936.
* * * *
By what means are the various colors pro-
duced in the luminous street signs ? —197.
Colors obtainable from gas discharges are
practically limited to red (neon), pinkish-white
(helium), and blue (mercury-argon-neon), there-
fore, other colors can only be obtained by
using colored glass, which will combine with
the discharge colors to give a wide variety of
shades. Yellow glass is used with mercury-
argon to produce green light and this glass is
also used with helium to produce the yellow
effect sometimes known as “gold” tubing. Many
varieties of colored glass are available to the
trade, the most common being known as
“noviol.”
*** * *
What is pemmican and how is it made ?—137.
Originally buffalo or bear meat dried, pul-
verised and mixed with fat, packed into buffalo
skins for transport among North American
indians. Take any very lean meat, cut it
into thin strips, and dry in the sun and wind;
then pound or grind it to a fine mass, mix with
melted fat and salt to taste, and pack while
soft into containers.
* . * * *
(1) Is there a ready market for squab pigeons
in Melbourne ? (2) Where could I buy birds to
start from ? (3) Is there a reliable book on
the subject ? —37.
(1) Yes, a fairly steady market, wholesale
prices ranging from 2s. 6d. to 4s. a pair. (2)
Stanton’s Squab Farm, North-road, Reservoir,
Nl9. (3) Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne,
have books on the subject.
* * * *
How to blue steel ? —2lB.
The outfit consists of a cast-iron kettle, a
tank for boiling water, a tank for oil (aquiline)
and a perforated basket. A mixture is made
up of nine parts of saltpetre and one part of
pyrolusite by weight. This is melted, the re-
quired temperature being obtained when it com-
mences to boil and when a pinch of sawdust
thrown in bursts into flame on touching the
surface. The temperature must remain con-
stant. The basket containing the article is now
lowered into the solution and left there for
three minutes when it is lifted out and the
surplus solution allowed to drain off. It is
then dipped in hot water, drained and placed
in oil, and taken out as quickly as possible
and again allowed to drain. The surface of the
metal must be clean and free from rust before
treating. Trouble can be saved by buying
a ready-made preparation, obtainable from Sil
Rohu, 143 Elizabeth-street, Sydney; 12s. 6d.
* * * *
In a borewater supply for a town, if a con-
crete pump well is sunk, say, about 100 ft
deep, what is the procedure? Is the hole ex-
cavated first, then lined with concrete, or is
concreting done while the hole is being sunk?
What is meant by a “sleeve” in a pump well?
How is sand coped with? —243.
Methods depend on the nature of the strata.
In solid ground a shaft may be sunk, forms
erected and concrete put in as a lining. In gravel,
sand or drift, it is usual to build the concrete of
the shaft above ground and to excavate inside,
allowing the concrete cylinder to follow the ex-
cavation down. When the water is struck, the
excavation would probably have to be performed
by means of mechanical grabs or scoops. As
soon as the top of the top section of the con-
crete cylinder approaches ground level, a
further section of cylinder is built on top, and
the process repeated. It is often necessary to
add extra weight to the cylinder to force it
down. The cylinder is sometimes bedded on
clay or rock, in which case the water is allowed
to enter the cylinder through spear points
or grids let into the side. Should it be found
impossible to carry the cylinder to the required
depth owing to the surface friction of the sand
or gravel it may be necessary to carry on with
a smaller concentric cylinder. The practice of
sinking expensive concrete cylinders, however,
has, of late years, been largely replaced by the
sinking of bores with some well-designed form
of gravel screen.
* * * *
(1) Could the heir to an old English estate,
carrying with it a baronetcy, possess the estate
while rejecting the title? (2) What steps should
be taken to annul the title ? —264.
(1) Yes. (2) He could take steps to have
the title annulled, but this would involve con-
siderable expense. The simplest course would
be to allow it to fall into disuse; it could then
be revived by any future holder should he so
desire.
* * * *
Whereabouts in Adam Smith’s “Wealth of
Nations” does the phrase about a nation of
shopkeepers occur? Can you quote the phrase
within its context as used by Smith? —365.
In Book 4, chapter 7, part 3. The phrase
appears thus: “To found a great empire for
the sole purpose of raising up a nation of
shopkeepers, may at first sight appear a project
fit only for a nation of shopkeepers. It is,
however, a project altogether unfit for a nation
of shopkeepers, but extremely fit for a nation
whose Government is influenced by shop-
keepers.”
* * * *
A few details concerning the N.S.W. Royal
Society for the Welfare of Mothers and
children ? —368.
It provides premises in two localities in the
city for use as baby health centres, day nur-
series and free kindergartens, and conducts three
training schools, where nurses may receive post-
graduate training in infant hygiene and mother-
craft. Associations of medical practitioners,
and of nurses, charitable organisations and in-
stitutions for children are affiliated with the
society.
* * * *
(1) What did it cost to print N.S.W. “Han-
sard” for the last five years for which figures
are available ? (2) Cost of salaries of N.S.W.
Parliamentary reporters for same period ? —-
375.
(1) 1931-32 £7135, 1932-33 £4530, 1933-34
£3290, 1934-35 £6308, 1935-36 £4741. (2) 1931-
32 £7077, 1932-33 £6633, 1933-34 £6929, 1934-
35 £7633, 1935-36 £7470.
* * * *
Mean standard temperature in shade for each
month of the year in Sydney? —37l.
January 71.6 deg., February 71.3 deg., March
69.3 deg., April 64.7 deg., May 58.8 deg., June
54.7 deg., July 53deg., August 55.2 deg., Septem-
ber 59.2 deg., October 63.6 deg., November
67deg. and December 70deg.
* * $ *
(1) What is absolute zero in temperature, and
(2) has it ever been reached? —3s3.
(1) Absolute zero—the point at which, theo-
retically, all gases solidify and all molecular
motion ceases —exists at 459.6 deg. below the
Fahrenheit and 273.15 deg. below the Centigrade
zero points. This is the beginning of what is
known in dynamic meteorology as Absolute
Temperature, as determined by observations of
the contraction of gases when cooled, and from
thermo-dynamical considerations. (2) A tem-
perature o.B2deg. Centigrade from the absolute
zero was reached in 1921 by Kamerling Onnes
in the physical laboratory of the University of
Leyden, while at the same university in 1935
Dr. Wander Johannes de Haas announced that
he had reached a temperature of one five-thou-
sandth of a degree (Kelvin) above Absolute
Zero.
* * * *
What have been the extreme temperatures
recorded at Canberra and capital cities of the
Commonwealth ? —l2B.
No. of
Years Highest Lowest
of Max. on Max. on
Record. Record. Date. Record. Date.
Canberra —
20 104.2° 28/1/’32 14.0° 19/7/’24
Sydney—
-78 108.5° 13 /1 / ’96 35.7° 22/6/’32
Melbourne —
81 111.2° 14/1/’62 27.0° 21/7/’69
Brisbane —
50 108.9° 14/1 / ’O2 36.1° 12/7/’94
' . and 2/7/’96
A flplq iHp i
80 116.3° 26/1 / ’SB 32.0° 24 /7 / ’OB
Perth-
-40 112.2° 8/2/’33 34.2° 7/7/T6
Hobart —
90 105.2° 30/12/’97 27.0° 18/7/’66
* * * *
(1) Treatment for red spider in violets ? (2)
Is a host known? —213.
(1) A commercial spraying material known
as Katikilla, obtainable from seed stores, is
effective, as also is nicotine sulphate. If the
plants are badly infested, several applications
may be necessary. It would be an advantage
to pick off and burn as many of the badly-
infested leaves as you can before spraying.
(2) Know of no plant that might be termed a
host for red spider.
* * * *
(1) What are the respective ages of Ambrose
Palmer and Jack Carroll? (2) When did they
begin boxing, and who were their last oppo-
nents? (3) How many contests did each have
before retiring, and is there any likelihood of
either making a comeback ? —327.
(1) Palmer 26, Carroll 32. (2) Palmer began
boxing as an amateur in 1927, and had his first
professional fight in 1929. Carroll commenced
as a professional in 1924, and had 99 contests,
while Palmer took part in 64. Carroll’s last
contest was with Jimmy Leto in Melbourne on
February 22 this year, and Palmer’s with Ron
Richards in Sydney on April 12. (3) Nothing
has been heard about Carroll attempting a come-
back, but the Olympia Sports Company (Sydney
Sports Ground promoters) announce that Palmer
will again box under its direction next October
or November.
* * * *
(1) What are the international Rugby Union
fixtures ahead? (2) Dates and where will the
Test matches between Maoriland and Australia
be played this year?— 2o7.
(1) Australian Rugby Union to Great Britain
in 1939-40; Great Britain to Australia in 1942 •
Australia to South Africa in 1945 ; South Africa
to Australia in 1948. (2) First Test last Satur-
day at Sydney; second Test at Brisbane, August
6; third Test at Sydney, August 13.
Brief Answers.
D.H. (Gilgandra): It cannot be stated exactly
which locality produces the purest gold. Gold
of approximately 23| carat has been recorded
from the Nerrigundah and Tumbarumba dis-
tricts. There is no record of gold purer than
this having been found in N. S. Wales
W.G.E.: In 1917 East Africa and Uganda Pro-
tectorate stamps bearing the head of King George
V. were overprinted “G.E.A.” by the British
authorities. These are probably the stamps
you possess R.J.F.: The translation of («)
is “To the glory of the mighty architect of
the whole wide world.” It is “dog” or ecclesi-
astical Latin. ( b ) “Let a man temper (or
sweeten) what is bitter with a gentle smile.”
The line occurs in Horace, Odes ll* 16, 26
T.E.J.: Complete History of the Lives and
Robberies of the Most Notorious Highwaymen,
Footpads, Etc., by Alexander Smith, The
Romance of London, by J. Timbs, and Half
Hours with the Highwaymen, by C. G. Harper,
... .A.A.: Write Australian Journalists’ Associ-
ation, 4 Castlereagh-street, Sydney E.C.:
(1) “Whosoever in any street or public place
to the obstruction, annoyance or danger of the
residents or passengers plays at any game”
commits an offence and is liable to a fine.
You should call the attention of the police to the
practice. (2) Hand it to the police R.S.L.:
If the lad has had no experience, it would be
advisable for him to take a course of a few
months’ training at the New England Experiment
Farm, Glen Innes (N.S.W.). No fee is charged
for the course. A copy of the prospectus has
been posted. It would be advisable for you to
interview the Director of Agriculture
T.A.L.: The publication, Results of Rain-
fall Observations Made in N. S. Wales During
1909-14, including yearly totals at 167 stations,
also maps, diagrams and complete monthly
total rainfall at 2067 stations for all years of
record, is on sale at the Weather Bureau,
Observatory Park, Sydney, 10s. 6d J.W.:
Yes, the owner of an adjoining property may
require his neighbor to assist in equal propor-
tions to pay the cost of a dividing fence. The
fence described does not appear to be a reason-
ably sufficient fence in the circumstances....
C.D.: The alloy you mention can be supplied,
but only in the ready-made plates, by R. P.
Hartas, 641 George-street, Sydney W. 0.:
Full name and regimental particulars of the
deceased ex-soldier are necessary... .A.F.H.:
The Commissioner for Railways is within his
rights and an appeal against his decision would
involve legal proceedings, and the risk of being
cast in costs if unsuccessful, in view of the
enhanced value given to the land by the
proximity of the station M.M.: “The Castle
of Indolence” in James Thomson’s collected
works, from Angus and Robertson, Sydney, ss.
3d J.H.M.: “Suggester” (noun) is perfectly
good English. Webster sponsors it in all
editions from 1874 to 1937... .T.W.F.: Outside
this page’s bailiwick. It supplies facts, not
joke suggestions L.D.: In conversation the
knight is addressed as “Sir John,” or whatever
Christian name he takes to his handle; wife
as “your ladyship” or “Lady Brown.” If she’s
the daughter of a peer, with a title in her own
right you call her “Lady Mary,” or whatever
her preferred Christian name is J.A.:
N.S.W. law does not permit the publication of
information concerning lotteries and sweep-
stakes conducted outside the State D.H.:
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., 227 Exhibition-street,
Melbourne, C.l, hires out fancy-dress costumes
but does not sell them; Madame Valentine, 142
Russell-street, Melbourne, C.l, both hires and
sells them. See Melbourne Telephone Directory
for others... .T.H.C.: According to Hoyle Up-
to-date, in forty five,“a player throwing off
when he should have followed suit must discard
his hand, face down, and forfeit his interest in
that pool on that and subsequent deals until
pool is won. If not won on that hand he must
add to pool after each deal just as though he
were eligible to win” R.A.: The Australian
Authors and Artists’ Handbook, 3s A.E.F.:
“Health and Physical Culture” (monthly, Is.),
107 Pitt-street, Sydney J.W.R.: Can’t enter
into sociological controversies on this page
P.F.C.: The material has an asbestos and fibre
basis, is fireproof, and grows harder with age.
Properly backed, it should give excellent service.
... .G.J.S.: Depends on age and income; book-
let posted F.C.8.: Under the Prevention
and Relief of Unemployment Act 1930-32,
loans were made available by the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment through the Building Relief Commit-
tee for the purpose of assisting property owners
to extend and effect repairs to their homes and
buildings. The functions of the committee have
been assumed by the Rural Bank. Loans up to
£3OO are made at 3 p.c. and the advances
are repayable by monthly instalments (principal
and interest) over periods from one to ten
years A.A.C.: “Poultry Newspaper,” 13
Goulburn-street, and “Organised Marketing,”
C/o N.S.W. Egg Marketing Board, Box 16,
Post Office, Pyrmont—both Sydney A. 8.:
(1) For the 12 months ended May 31, 1938 about
1,000,000 tons of pig-iron and about 1,200,000
tons of steel were produced in Australia. (2)
The Broken Hill Proprietary Cos. and Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel. (3) Not available. (4)
Yes. (5) Ye5....5.H.: Apprentices can be
appointed to the P. and O. Cos. only on personal
application to the directors of the co. in
London. It is understood the position is the
same with the Orient line M.M.M.: (1)
Anna Josepha Coombe. (2) St. Martin in the
Fields. March 11, 1791... .H.J.M.: Get in
touch with the commanding officer, R.A.A.F.
station, Richmond, N.S.W J.M.R.: (1)
See list of requirements posted under separate
cover. (2) Secretary, Civil Aviation Board, Vic-
toria Barracks, Melbourne.


SOUTH WALES
3
Mr*
1865
la
3
&
%
-4
m
The first sale of land at Wellington, New South Wales, was held
in 1846. This town, situated at the junction of the Bell and
Macquarie rivers, was founded by Governor Sir George Gipps.
Oxley, the explorer, discovered the Wellington Valley in 1817. The
Bank of New South Wales, the pioneer bank in Australia, was
founded in that year, and the Bank's Wellington Branch was opened
in 1865.
Thus the Bank of New South Wales has been associated with the
development of the Wellington district for seventy-three years.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
E ST.
18 17
332 C. 1938
n
e
ame
is
C
Callim)
s
m
k
is
IJIS
m
a.
I
*
USB*
I
9
m
i
m
m.
u
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
joldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - •
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Jibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. - - -
- Fremantle
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
C.M.: A nice piece of description, nothing
more A.E.M.: Should be a lot better with-
out the trick ending H.G.: Bill might have
been more amusing if he’d really cut his throat.
.... J.T.: Didn’t like the “truly ‘doggy’ man,
writer of dogs’ doings and disasters” C.P.:
Nor the “typical Australian cattleman” who
“used to come into the dining-room, put his
hand on his heart, make a stage bow and adapt
his, order for eggs and bacon to some popular
air”... .D.A.: Neat enough, but it’s too slight.
. ...J.A.F.: A highly moral story, anyway....
F. : Hackneyed M.M.H.: Could only
spare a cheer for the gallant stockman....
C.S.: “Magic” just fails W.L.: Began well,
but it faded away... .E.M.D.: Doesn’t get
under weigh... .C.8.H.: Du 11... .A. 8.: Our
eyes suffered reading that faint scrawl
M. : Henry isn’t funny even without his
teeth E.L.L.: That suit isn’t worth altering.
. ...L.M.8.: The bird’s yours B.AJ.: Not
quite... .V.H.C.: “Ironbark” is too thin
p H.: “Although this man was one of hate and
revenge he was a gentleman.” Well, that was
nice of him, anyway... .R.D.N.: Boss Harri-
gan and his boys have strayed from Noo Yark.
. ...F.C.H.: 01d... .D.T.F.: Bella should find
a place elsewhere R.G.: You’re not within
coo-ee of the bull’s-eye... .H.K.W.: Our advice
(but then we only lasted a couple of pages)
is to strangle the youngsters J.E.8.: And
strong measures are needed with that kid, too.
B.W.K.: Not a grin T. 8.: Nothing but
cheers for “Alf Pollock’s Grey Mare”
G. : Not interested in “morbid medita-
tions”. .. .D.C. (Middlesex): A long way 0ff....
B. : Thought “Georgie’s Uncle George” a
really nasty old man E.M.A.: Boggled at
the big businessman F.H.T.: Incredible
J.E.M.: Not up... .A.E.H.: Promising....
C. Doesn’t break any new ground
T.S.G.: Thin.... A.L.: You’re in a well-grazed
paddock H.R.: No “Funny Business”....
R.F.S.: Obvious G.C.8.: Out with “the
inevitable canker changing the sweet waters of
contentment to the sour flow of irritation”....
R.C.S.: “Jake Kindred had an eye for woman-
kind. Thus when a girl passed him he spat
prematurely ” No W.P.: True enough.
D.L.R.: Not very funny 8.G.: We
don’t know A.M.: Then what? M.N.:
Nearly... .E.K.F.: We did think the fellow
who picked pretty stones out of a river, carted
them round, then found they were opals, had
passed on L.F.8.: Don’t like the naked
aldermen L.H.: Nothing unusual about the
blonde... .A.T.: No place for “Remorse”....
R.8.F.: You’re right, “the authenticity of the
tale shocks credulity” P.S.W.: Old stuff.
. ...E.F.: Not worth the trouble... .A.F.:
Not up, but you should place it elsewhere....
N. : Misses B.B.: That boozing old
fighter is an old friend T.McL.: Fair
enough, but not for us G.H.H. (England):
Tennis-playing spies smearing poison on the
balls! Grrmph!... .T.M.C.: Try them on
a woman’s magazine... .5.0.8.: Blind woman,
disfigured lover and escapee from lunatic asylum.
.. .M.P.: A chuckle, but it walks the plank....
M. : That won’t buy a return ticket
T.M.P.: Would he have been Mr. Bink if you
hadn’t needed a rhyme for drink? J.D.:
Tumbledown... .G.L.: Nice, but not new....
F.J.: The verse is a little less deplorable than
its subject W.M.W.: Touche H.P.: It
should find a place elsewhere H.V.W.: They
rhyme and scan... .E.K.: “Anchor” doesn’t
grip... .W.D.: Can’t park Ark here... .L.S.:
Not up G.D.: Magnificent attempt to rhyme
“sure” and “cure” A.H.G. Dead....
E.L.M.: New York’s a long way 0ff.... J.F.D.:
If all the corpses that have been dumped down
the shaft were piled one on top of the other
they’d fill the darn thing up, we hope
P.R.S.: A neat tissue of improbabilities
N. : Just a collision M.D.: A ghost-
dog may attack a wild boar, but it won’t bring
home the bacon L.D.McK.: Might make a
par... ..E.L.: Bagmen who walk off “into the
dawn” never walk into print J.D.S.: A
fine stirring tale for boys L.C.: Brown’s
feet were a delicate touch A.R.D.: Just a
flutter... .C.W.McP.: Nag’s only a plodder,
•• • -M.8.: Try elsewhere... .A.F.: An unfor-
tunate class N.S.M. : T don t know what
° “f ke ° f do you ve been
m embef correctly had’sevSaT other smtors
besides myself, and from what I witnessed you
gave them more attention than you did me.”
No wonder, if that’s the way you talk....
E.G.W.: Liked the bit where he burned that
dreadful poem R.S.: Shopworn L.R.L.:
Bushed F.J.S.: Capital letters don’t make
capital verse E.S.: A grin and a tear for the
bloke who set out for North Queensland with
. A little pig tied in a sack,
A rooster and his harem,
and then was not only taxed to starvation-
point but driven to verse about it....
N.M.R.: Rupert Brooke E.T.F.: Doesn’t
ring true W.J.H.: Neat, but rather slight.
C.A.8.: Sketch didn’t miss by much
T.H.Y.: That crime stuff has to be something
out °f the bag to B et P ast R-W.: A bit
*°° to Henry’s Andy Tucker and
Jeff Peters " •-H.M.H.: 111 Wind just a pale
romance; other held for second reading
B.M, : In the average class 0n1y... .H.E.L.:
j n these pages, as in real life, no star re-
porter solves murders... .8.H.: You should
place it elsewhere D.E.C.C.: That touch of
mysticism isn’t convincing J.C.S. : Wore two
pairs of glasses out reading it, then found it no
g00d... .G.F.1.: No 8.L.: Red-blooded,
anyway F.C.: Not up R.E.: Too con-
ventional. 4 . .C.K.: Glimpses of humor, but
that theme 1S a dlfficult one... .8.F.8.: Picking
t mer< S ry p wl . th boxing tfoves on is easy to
that P.C.R.: Don t like that precocious
twelve-year-01d... .V.F.: Strange, too strange.
....Nytea: Lightweight... .G.M.: Been done
to death... .E.W.: You’ll have to find some-
thing newer than a bargain sale... .R.W.M.:
And that’s an old gag... .C.J.R.: Still not
what we want... .J.L.: Lucky chap!
J-A.D. (London): A very long way away....
No shelter for that beachcomber here,
E.M.: Bellowdrammer E.M.F.: Streng-
then the endin 8 and k might suit a daily.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
riss?
M "S'
Sr,? re on . tble banned 1i5t....C.H.:
Could n t discover what you were driving at.
tion... .A.S.: A stiff and angular trio....
J.G.: Crude sketch all out of proportion and
perspective E.L.8.: Lessons—plenty of them
—is what you need D.F.: Cricketers’ wives
cartoon a bit too raw....G.G.: You’ve been
spending your winter evenings to no good pur-
pose... ,M.E.: Needs a lot of polishing before
11 wIU ach publication level R.L.: Yes;
we consider original.jokes, apart from drawings
... .C. 8.. Hands look like lumps of dough
an d legs like stovepipes. .. .J.R.: Your wrestler
was thrown through the ropes a second after
the sons rant? M O’R • Tsfeat anH Hriv Unt
completely humoriess... .K.D.: An old Digger
Chestnut; drawing on the rough side H.S.:
No space for fairi es to fit about in. ...L.8.:
This week’s largest and most ambitious flop
E.C.: We found a place in the office morgue
for those inartistic corpses J.N.T.: That
particular flying boundary rider appeared in
The Bulletin about 20 years ago S.D.:
Jokes about miniature golf are as dead as the
game itself... .P.P.: Can’t tell whether it is a
design for a new Australian flag or a novel
weather chart W.T.: You nearly did the
distance, the heavy gag was the handicap
H.A.: You’d do better if you worked with a
broader nib.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Bridges, the Australian who introduced
job-control on the Pacific Slope, is known
there as “Limo” Bridges, according to
the “Saturday Evening Post.” In a “Post”
pen-picture he is “wolf-lean, with the
sloping forehead, retreating chin and
parrot beak of the colonial.” Still, he
can scarcely be as tough-looking as some
of those American politicians whose flinty
dials are portrayed in the “Post.”
* * * *
“Admiral Fillemup”: It was a wise
generation at both Admiralty and War
Office which decided that women should
be no longer borne on the strength of
either branch of the service. When
Admiral Sir William King-Hall joined
the Navy, just 99 years ago (he was the
father of Admiral Sir George, last
C.-in-C. of the R.N. in Australia), his
first tribulation came when he was posted
to H.M.S. Vindictive and encountered
the Admiral’s daughter on board. She
lived up to the ship’s name, with devas-
tating effect on ward-room discipline.
The Admiral was Sir Francis Austen,
brother of Jane Austen, and his daughter
was “Miss Cassy.” King-Hall said she
possessed “every bad quality of head and
heart.”
“Wingfield”: Rowing history was
made when the first manual worker com-
peted at Henley regatta—he was beaten
in his heat of the Diamond Sculls by
Burk, the American amateur champion.
The history-maker’s name is Horwood,
and he is a London bus-driver. The
Metropolitan Police eight, also formerly
banned under the Henley code of ama-
teurism, now abolished, made their bow
at Henley by winning their first heat of
the Thames Cup—from Barclay’s Bank.
* * * *
“Baffy”: Women did play golf in old-
time Scotland (B. 13/7/’3B). It was a
favorite relaxation —if the obsession can
be called that —of hapless Mary Queen
of Scots, as her accounts, with charges
for clubs and balls, show. Further, the
fact that she was once seen playing on
the Sawbath with the ladies of her court
on the Carse of Stirling gave old John
Knox an extra club with which to wallop
his flighty sovereign, and he made the
most of it.
* * * $
“Tenth Slip”: Frank Tarrant, back
in Australia from India, says he may try
to arrange for a team to visit India
privately next year. It is to be hoped
he will receive more courteous treatment
from the Board of Control than he did
last time. Tarrant is coach and cricket-
manager to Patiala, a great Sikh magnate,
and himself a cricketer of international
standing. He hopes to bring an Indian
team to Australia in three years’ time.


mm
m
%
. econo«
BETTER
T
\ 0
*7
£4
One Owner Who Has Bought No
Less Than NINE
MODEL “M” TRACTORS
Reports: Exceedingly economical on fuel, averaging
under 1 gal. per working hour. Remarkably free from
Breakdown or any Mechanical Troubles. Always on
the job and No Time Lost.
THE IDEAL TRACTOR FOR
TANK or DAM SINKING.
Headquarters
- House
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
esc*
N-Q-Branch
STLPT SI
fOWNSVIUf
ENGINEERING
SIPPI-V C9Cf
AUSTRALIA L TD
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations . . . • >» *5
Sheep bought >» 20
Wire netting » 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared,
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1938 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Stfeet (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
XXL
Going to the Coliseum one morning
in that last war year, Mac Sherry met
Bill, the chucker-out, standing discon-
snlatHv miKiHe
“wiLc thinßill ” hP said
Hows things Ml, he said
No good, William rep le .
this yesterday.
“This” was a typewritten lettei signed
by the new manager, who had been bor-
rowed from a firm of accountants in
the desperate hope that he could some-
how revive the fading financial fortunes
of the Coliseum. It informed Mr.
Packer, in an odd mixture of business
and legal jargon, that “owing to the
necessity for a re-arrangement of our
staff” he could consider his services as
having forthwith ceased and determined.
“The Australian of it,” quoth Mr.
Packer, gloomily, “is that I’ve got the
push. I ain’t kickin’—l saw it cornin’.”
“Sorry, Bill.”
“The night you fought Durkin,” Mr.
Packer went on, “I says, ‘They says the
war’d settle the Game,’ an’ I laughs at
’em. Well, they was right and I was
wrong—the war ’as settled the Game.
What’s your opinion?”
Terry said he hoped the position
wasn’t as bad as that, but he had to
admit to himself that it was nearly as
bad as it could be.
Durkin was dead in America and
Mehegan in France. Rafferty had gone
back to his own country, and Carrie
had gone away in an A.I.F. troopship,
Kling had also disappeared.
It came out afterwards that Kling
had stolen away to the U.S.A. about
the same time as Durkin, had tried in
vain to get matches in New York, and
after many months of silence had turned
up on the Pacific Slope, where he was
boxing fellows like Tom Gibbons—men
too big and powerful for an 11-stoner.
The Coliseum had had to fall back
on third-raters and novices. These scrap-
pers had small public appeal, and the
crowds which had numbered thousands
had fallen away to a few hundreds,
There wasn’t enough in the offertories
to pay salaries, and, though Mr.
Minogue remained his good friend,
Terry & moodily wondered how long he
would go on getting his £5 a week.
Carrie had come to the Coliseum office
to say good-bye. Before enlisting the
American knocked himself about in
more ways than one, and camp life
had set him up again. For looks he
could beat almost any beauty-actor in
the ousinesS; and Te J rry admired the
figure he cut in his smart A.I.F. uniform,
“Nobody can say I’m not a dinkum
Aussie now,” Jimmy said, with a grin,
“j on i y w j sb i> d bad the sense t o get
khaki before I did my dough and
started mopping up the suds. But I
s ’ pose j’ll be too late for the war—the
on]y th i ng j’ m a champ, at is missing
tbc bus.”
And be was too late for the war.
wb en half-way to Europe the skipper of
the troopship received orders to turn
back Carrie, Mac Sherry learned after-
wards, had made himself the life and
sou i 0 f the ship. Half the company,
f rom “C.O. transport” to the rawest
field-ambulance rookie, and from the
old Man to the cook’s slushy, had be-
CO me his pupils, and almost every night
there were wild slogging and a Carrie
exhibition of sparring or ballpunching
on the main deck.
Carrie went boxing again in Sydney ;
but, being past his prime, he had to take
repeated hidings for small rewards. “I
don’t seem to ba able to get away from
a punch like I used, to, he confessed
to Terry. Worse still, he returned to
his old habits.
He still had generous Australian
friends. The hat was sent round for him,
and enough was raised to take him back
to his own country—he said he wanted
to go—and keep him for a year or two
or set him up in a gymnasium. But he had
become hopelessly improvident, and he
squandered the money in two or three
months. Unable to get matches, and
unfit for any steady work, he joined a
band of tramps.
Had a like fate befallen him in Aus-
tralia, with its good old bush traditions,
the poor devil would not have gone
short of food nor would he have needed
shelter. But his own country had no
use for tramps; and one day Terry
learned with a shock, that Jimmy Carrie,
handsomest and cleverest of boxers, and
prince of good fellows, had died in a
ditch. His emaciated body was buried
at the county’s cost, the cause of death
being grimly set down in the certificate
as “exposure.”
Though the Game regained its popu-
larity for fleeting periods, it bred no
more Durkins. The standard of Aus-
tralian boxing fell persistently until the
time came when no native-born bruiser
in any division could be pitted with con-
fidence against a second-rate American.
American visitors who came to the
Coliseum and chatted with members of
the staff marvelled at this decline. Said
a New Yorker to Mac Sherry, “Why, I
can remember when there were Aus-
tralians in the United States who could
wallop the hides off the best of our native
sons, from heavyweight to bantam. They
were so good and there were so many
of them that one of our newspapers sug-
gested putting Australian boxers on the
list of prohibited imports until Lanky
Bob, Jim Hall, Creedon, Jim Ryan,
Tommy Tracey, Griffo, George Dawson,
Jimmy Anthony and the rest were used
up. Did you ever see Lanky Bob?”
“Do you mean Fitzsimmons?”
“Yes, Fitz. What a wonder he was!
There was never a heavyweight like him.
Yet he could always fight inside the
middleweight limit. Punch —he could
stun a 20-stoner with a blow that didn’t
travel a foot! Yet he was no chicken
when he reached ’Frisco in the ’nineties,
and he must have learned all he knoo
in Sydney here.”
“He did. He learned from Larry
Foley. After he knocked Corbett out
in ’ninety-seven he sent Foley a set of
diamond-studded sleeve-links —I’ve often
seen ’em ‘from the Champion Boxer
to the Champion Teacher.’ And I saw
him box Bill Lang when he was 50.”
Terry’s memory travelled back to that
midsummer day at Sydney in 1909. He
had been told that Fitzsimmons was
awkwardly clever, but Fitz was more
than that. He knew all the moves, and
he gave Lang a boxing lesson. He had
everything except what time had taken
from him.
Yes, boxing had gone to the bow-
wows, as far as quality was concerned,
and Terry could never account for it
to his own satisfaction. Some newspaper
man had written that “Nature made only
one Foley in a century, and then broke
the mould.” Foley had been a great loss,
but he had gone out of the business of
teaching long before 1914, and that was
the year in which Durkin arrived —
“blazed the comet of a season,” as old
Bill Corbett or someone said.
Were the Australians a less combative
people than they were when, Foley was
teaching Fitzsimmons and Griffo? Cer-
tainly they did a lot more fighting in
those days; a young fellow generally
had a long history of shearing-shed and
mining-camp fights before Foley or
Sammy Gray or someone like that began
to put polish on him in the gym.
And food was cheap then; cheap and
good. Foley always attached the great-
est importance to food. “Other things
being aqual,” he used to say, “it’s
nourishment that prevails, me lad, and
the byes I taught to put up their dooks
were the best-fed pugs of their toime.”
Then t*e war was a drain on the stock
of pugilistic material. He had heard a
woman say at a football match that you
didn’t see such fine physical specimens
about as you did before the war ; and it
was true. Potential champions, as well as
past champions like Mehegan, must have
been left in France and Syria.
Another thing was that boxing and
sculling were the only sports in which
young fellows could make any sort of a
living when Foley ran the White Horse.
There was no organised football in
those days; no surf bathing to give
heavyweights in the making jobs as life-
savers ; no openings for golf profes-
sionals or tennis shamateurs. There was
bike-pushing, and Terry had known bike-
pushers who were good boxers, but the
boom in cycling didn’t arrive till Foley
had gone into the demolition business.
As for cricket, there was nothing in it
for even a star like Spofforth. Poor old
Charlie Bannerman had tried to live on
cricket and gone broke again and again ;
and they had had to raise a subscription
for Victor Trumper.
Perhaps the promoting as well as the
coaching was better in the old days. It
had become the fashion to match un-
formed and inexperienced youngsters
against one another, and, worse still,
against tough foreigners, and bill them
as champions when they were only tyros.
Sight of those burnt-out boys convinced
superior physical types that they could
do better in their trades at union rates,
or even the basic wage. Perhaps the
Game would never have 1 had its Slavins
or Goddards had unions been strong
and arbitration courts in existence when
those fellows were young.
Such thoughts came to Terry when
he contemplated the inferior breed of
pugs he had to work on in his capacity
of matchmaker. Now and then, for
sheer lack of even third-rate Australians,
he was obliged to pit American against
American. Once, for the same humiliat-
ing reason, he was reduced to putting
two weedy Filipinos in the same ring.
On that occasion he was glad that
Foley couldn’t be there. It would have
been hard to restrain Larry from duck-
ing through the ropes himself to avenge
the outrage on his pride in Australia
and in the type of boxer he produced—
matchless in skill and dauntless in bear-
ing.
(To be continued.)


PTY.
AT HOME 20 WEEKS
WITH RHEUMATISM
Wife Feared Husband
Would Never Work Again
When her husband had been at home 20
weeks with rheumatism in his back, this woman
began to think he would never work again.
At last, she said to him: “Let’s try Kruschen,”
and the change that took place was, in her
own words, “like a miracle.” Here is her
letter:
“My husband is subject to rheumatism and
suffered terribly with his back. Some time
ago, I had him in the house 20 weeks with it.
I really didn’t think he would ever work again.
We tried all the different kinds of salts you
could mention, but none of them did him any
good. Then I said, ‘Let’s try Kruschen.’ Since
then, we have proved Kruschen Salts to be
worth its weight in gold. My husband is back
at his job, thanks to Kruschen. The change it
made is like a miracle.” —(Mrs.) B.
Two of the salts in Kruschen are the most
effectual solvents of uric acid crystals known
to science. They swiftly dull the sharp edges
of the painful crystals and convert them into
a harmless solution, which is then expelled
through the natural channels.
QUARTER SHEETS
%
m
No. 46 Wool Serge, in blue or fawn
bound with red, strap to buckle and
fillet string 337-
No. 48—India Serge, light yet
warm, in blue or fawn, suitable for
racehorses 36/6
No. 42—Warm Fleecy Plaid, blue and
red plaid, blue and yellow plaid,
bound, fillet string 38/6
Post 1/6 each.
WALTHER v STEVEMSOMI
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
FOR CARS & TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
UM@
ilTWira
turn • • o
The Canadian
Australasian Line's
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modem comfort
and model service
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in IftZ.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
(3
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Fishermen for the Bight
Some years ago The Bulletin pub-
lished an article from my pen pointing
out the great potential value of a
properly-organised fishery industry on
S.A.’s West Coast. Melbourne capital
has interested itself in the project; it is
proposed to erect a freezing plant at
Ceduna, where filleting, freezing, pack-
ing and marketing of whiting and
snapper will be undertaken. Melbourne
already draws much of its whiting supply
from these waters. It is hoped that can-
ning, too, will come into the picture.
The defence factor should not be
ignored. Settlements of hardy and re-
sourceful fishermen along the shores of
the Bight would be useful in the event
of war. — Jae (S.A.).
Australianism Wanted
The servility of pre-selected members
to the party machines has had a great
deal to do with the present low ebb of
Australian politics. Recent elections
have shown how tired the people are get-
ting of government by vote-catchers.
There is room for some of the inde-
pendent-minded to express themselves
through a new policy of Australianism,
constructive and aimed towards a uni-
fied and a protected Commonwealth, in
place of the present relief-and-embargo
creed, which is making thousands' of
electors —particularly in States furthest
removed from the Federal capital—
wonder what the Commonwealth is for.
—V.E. (Vic.).
Arms for Merchantmen
In B. 15/6/’3B there was an article ask-
ing why private enterprise in the Spanish
trade didn’t arm its ships for defensive
purposes, as owners of merchant vessels
have been accustomed to do from the
jdawn of history. According to the Lon-
don “Daily Mail” the British Govern-
ment has been considering permitting
this, but there are many difficulties, in-
cluding that good old bogey “inter-
national complications” and the neces-
sity for strengthening the vessels to take
the guns.
There can be no question of complica-
tions. As The Bulletin writer said,
there is nothing in international law for-
bidding a merchantman to arm for de-
fensive purposes only, and parties bomb-
ing neutral ships can hardly question the
legality of such procedure. As to the
strengthening of the ships this is hardly
necessary. Your contributor advocated
nothing more than machine-guns or light
Q.F. guns of the old pom-pom type ; for
these no reinforcement of decks would
be required. A couple of Vickers or
Lewis guns would force bombers to
remain at a height of at least a couple
of thousand feet and, as the Chinese war
has shown us, at that height the hitting
even of a small fixed target like an
anchored ship is at best a fluke. — Coif
(N.S.W.).
“Our Army, O Our Army”
I asked my friend the captain how his
C.M.F. battalion was getting on. “Not
too good,” he said in colloquial Austra-
lian. “On the roll, about 270; work-
ing attendance, 70.”
The lads had been out at the range
that day. Attendance 50 ; and “it was
supposed to be a pretty big affair.”
They had had a week-end bivouac.
Turnout, about 50. The department sent
along £3 —“three lousy quid”—for
transport and food for two days. Trans-
port took all of the “three quid.”
Yes, we have an army of militiamen
with a nominal strength of 35,000.
B. B. (State necessarily omitted).
Warmonger Once
It occurred to me that you might be
interested in one reader’s reactions to
the intensive campaign you have been
waging against “jittery” newspapers
I used to read, mark, learn and in-
wardly digest the rather conflicting re-
ports served up in most of the papers
singled out for your entertaining com-
ments, and as a consequence I became
imperceptibly, a rabid warmonger. At
the time of the Abyssinian affair, I felt
sure that England should declare war on
Italy—felt, indeed, that a sacred cause
(or something like this) would be upheld
by such an action. A good slab of any
population with my general outlook at
that time would have declared war any-
where at the drop of a hat.
I am really amazed to find how my
mental attitude has changed, especially
as regards the gentle Soviet. I think it is
only in The Bulletin that one gets a
true picture of Russia —a picture backed
by fairly sound reasoning and the mar-
shalling of facts, and not by a jumble
of more or less improbable assertions
that all must be well because Russia is
the model for the world.
Without laboring the point too much, I
really think The Bulletin is to be con-
gratulated on its share in debunking the
world situation ; so here’s to a continua-
tion of the good work. —R. H. Gordon
(W.A.).
No Fruit or Veges.
Why do so many country folk refuse
to grow any sort of fruit or vegetables?
There are exceptions, of course. I was
on a 70,000-acre holding in Queensland,
where one acre was under cultivation as
a garden—of sorts. There were five
young children in that family; every one
was suffering from malnutrition.
In 16 years of bush tutoring in
Australia I’ve never been on a place
where any decent attempt was made to
provide food other than mutton, mutton,
mutton. Usually these folks keep “a few
chooks.” They mean a few lousy hens
that camp in trees, and are never pro-
perly looked after. I’ve been on places
where the boss, though he had young
children, did not believe in handfeeding
the milkers ; we invariably got the milk
from tins because the cows supplied about
two cupfuls apiece. I was on one home-
stead four miles from a town ; all their
food came from the town. Bush
Tutor (Q.).
Japan and Opium
The Bulletin is serving Australia
well in exposing lies dished up to us as
foreign news, but that “Daily Mirror”
story (B. 22/6/’3B) is substantially true.
Manchukuo, controlled by Japan, is one
of the few places where poppy-cultivation
for production of opium and its deriva-
tives is legal. Licenses are granted to
growers and their product is taxed.
At a meeting of the League Advisory
Committee on the Traffic in Opium, it
was stated (l/6/’37) that “Manchukuo
and Jehol constitute the one region in
the world where the governing
authority not only makes no effort to
prevent the use of narcotic drugs but
profits by the rapid increase of narcotic
addiction.” The Peiping Provisional
Government (set up by Japan) has now
legalised the opium traffic in North
China. So if Japanese are not “thrust-
ing” opium on Chinese, they are encour-
aging them to use it.
My authority for these statements is
not a stunt newspaper but unsensational
publications of the Department of Ex-
ternal Affairs, F.C.T. —A. C. C. (Vic.).
Anti-aircraft Defence
It is announced that the Defence De-
partment has elaborate plans for protect-
ing Australian cities against raids by air-
craft, and that 3in. anti-aircraft guns have
been ordered in “considerable quanti-
ties.” They will need to be considerable
to cover splaying towns like Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Although the 3in. semi-auto, which
fires 25 shells of 14.33 pounds per minute,
is an awkward sort of a weapon for even
the largest ’plane to run into, there are
a good many other weapons in use which
are more feared. Vickers list 16 types of
A.A., ranging from a nasty .303 which
doles out up to 600 rounds a minute, to
the 4.7, which fires a 48.51 b. shell at the
rate of six rounds a minute. The two-
pounders are about as lethal as any—the
autos heave 200 shells a minute with a
muzzle energy of up to 84 foot tons.
Any pilot who gets within range of
that little lot is not likely to remember
much about it.— Zedo (N.S.W.).


RIDE 'EM, COWBOY
IT shore looked like trouble fer some-
body when Mr. Nelson C. Nye came
rip-roarin’ into Tortilla Flat, rattlin’
through the dust on the purtiest little
typewriter y’u ever see. Any long-horned
maverick that figured to go on the prod
while Nels was around was lookin’ to be
planted any minute along with a slug of
ink from the wickedest lookin’ scribblin-
irons in the West. The ivory handles of
his fountain-pens protruded ominous
from the holsters slung low on either hip.
Doggone it if he ain’t gone and got
hisself mixed up with his own characters
wuss than a gopher full of snake-pizen.
Nels is the author. Shucks!
It was Mr. Sudden Shane who come
hell-raisin’ into Tortilla Flat in Nels’s G
Stands for Gun (Nicholson and Watson).
He warn’t lookin’ fer no ruckuses
when he ambled into the Come-an’-Get-
It, but he jest nacherally couldn’t help
hisself when Stone Latham’s lips twisted
in a sneer as he swung his lantern-jaw
acrost the bar at copper-topped Lisabet
Corbin, knockin’ over a couple of bottles
with it on the way.
“What was that crack, stranger?”
growled Stone.
Swung his lantern jaw.
“1 said,” the stranger drawled, “that a
man-sized gent, had orta be able to find
better ways of amusin’ hisself than baitin’
a defenceless girl.”
“Air y’u aimin’ to make somethin’ out
of it, pilgrim?”
The stranger’s grin disclosed twin sets
of hard, white teeth. If he had had three
sets he would have bared them, too.
“Y’u’re keepin’ the lady waitin’, hombre.
She and me is cravin’ to hear y’u orate as
how them disrespectful words of yores
was lies. And y’u better articulate
pronto.”
An angry red washed
into Stone Latham’s
frowning cheeks. It was
the best wash they had
had for years. Fading, it
left them a sickly green
right down to his scowling
bosom. Lisabet Corbin
tingled to a warm thrill as
she observed these pheno-
mena. Slowly the
gambler raised his sickly-
blue hands above his
head. Yaller, huh?
But it warn’t long be-
fore the sinkin’ sun threw
blankets of gold and lilac,
and eiderdowns of topaz
In the treeless desert.
and amethyst on Superstition Moun-
tain, and Shane sat musin’. Night’s
cornin’ would be swift, he mused (muses
Nels). “And swifter still would be
Death’s coming and the sinister slither
of his sickle snuffing souls in this place
of turbulence and greed, once the dark-
ness fell.” So purty soon the sound of
a woman screamin’ sent tinglin’ cfiills
acrost Shane’s scalp.
“Durn it!” he muttered. “I thought
I’d killed ’em.”
Sudden Gun Shane [orates the blurb) was
although he did not know it —in love
with the fiery Lisabet, and he was also
out to protect the miners’ interests, as
Stone Latham and Jarson Lume found to
their cost. How he won a girl, a ranch
and the gratitude of all is told in burning
prose that enables the reader to live in
imagination through a quick-moving series
of breath-taking events.
Nels sums her up plumb honest in his
dedication:
For Jane, whose patient helpfulness and
canny comments have gone far toward
making this book the thing it is.
Tortilla Flat ain’t the only corral of
sin and wickedness to see a few rattle-
snakes bite the dust lately. There’s a few
Rip-roarin’ into Tortilla.
blear-eyed shypokes of hoss-thieves round
’n about Nelplaid wonderin’ if they was
struck by lightnin’, account of Red Clark
havin’ breezed in and unholstered the
walnut handles among ’em fer a week or
two. Kate Clayton reckoned Red was
sure-fire the dearest, bravest boy in the
world, but what Gordon Young thought
about him when Red went gunnin’ fer
him along of him treatin’
Miss Kate disrespectful
aint’ nobody’s business.
Now shucks! if that
ain’t pie-eyed again.
Gordon is the author of
Red Clark, Boss
(Methuen), and though it
don’t seem right nohow
that he could get a thor-
oughbred like Miss Kate
all trussed up like a turkey
and nobody tote an iron
to him, it warn’t him Red
was layin’ fer, but Mell
Barber and Gridger and
them other coyotes who
was rustlin’ the Lazy Z
cattle. Mebbe Red’ll shoot
him up later.
Red Clark, Boss shore has an appetisin’
openin’. Red comes at a slow chop-
chop, chop-chop down the main street at
Nelplaid, and there’s four bad aigs out-
side the Silver Dollar saloon. Waal, y’u
cain’t make a cowboy novel without
breakin’ aigs, and Red lets daylight
thru three of them quicker ’n an Injun
can bat an eyelid. Those four aigs was
cert’nly aimin’ to plug somebody fer
somethin’, and when they’s got the gall to
go rilin’ Miss Kate at the same time they
got what was cornin’ to them. Kate had
a scream in her mouth the
whole time, accordin’ to
Gordon, and that’s a
mighty uncomfortable
sorta thing to have in yore
mouth, happen y’u ain’t
got a toothpick some-
wheres handy.
So Red gets a job round
about and bimeby he
finds hisself ridin’ fer a
woman who ain’t Jane
Clayton, but a kinda
schoolmarm from the
East. Barber and Gridger
and them brand-fakers
cain’t keep their hairy
paws off the females and
plenty colts go bang-bang-
bang till most folks is purty full of lead
or else roped up somewheres in the tree-
less desert. Red really orta married some-
body—’most anybody except Gridger—
but Gordon’s.on’y used him. in six books
so far, and he ain’t gonna push along
go-carts or push up loco-weed fer some
time yet, betcha.
That's Roamin’, noddin' imperceptibly.
Any dude with a pinhead of book-
larnin’ could draw sartin conclusions
about these here saddle-pards of the
western novel by studyin’ the blurbs. Fer,
goldurn it, G Stands for Gun unlimbers
snappy with:
When Mr. Sudden Shane rode into tor-
tilla Flat he was not looking for any
trouble, but he was ready and open for
any that might come along.
Then he lights on a real bad hombre
insultin’ a pure gal, and the sparks begin
to jump, and how!
Red Clark, Boss, however, having a
different title, sez plain and blunt:
When Red Clark rode into the dusty,
sun-scorched town of Nelplaid he was, as
usual, headed for trouble.
Red, wouldya believe it, meets some
real bad hombres insultin’ a pure gal,
and the sparks begin to jump, and then
some!
After them two
books stampedin’ off
thetaway it ain’t so
surprisin’ on the
eyes to meet Charles
M. Martin’s Deuce
of Diamonds
(Nicholson and
Watson) beginnin’:
When Roamin’
Reynolds hit the
trail to Paradise,
the little cattle-
shipping town in
Summit Valley, he
had a premonition
he was heading for
trouble.
It shore is a strange
co-incidence, bu t
A crusade against killin’.
Roamin lands fair among some real bad
hombres insultin’ a pure gal, and the
sparks begin to jump, with a hi-yip-
yippi!
Which don’t mean to say that Roamin'
and Red and Sudden are all the same
guy. No, siree! Y’u can tell Roamin’
easy from the others becase he’s the one
as “nods imperceptibly” to the gal. That
gal’s shore got eyes like a buzzard, too ;
there ain’t many as would know whether
a fella was noddin’ “imperceptibly” or
just not noddin’, unlest he kinda waggled
his ears a bit.
They ain’t so heluva different, though.
Oncet there was a businessman who
useter read 27 westerns of an evenin’,
him reckoning that y’u on’y had to fling
yore optics acrost the blurb and y’u knew
everything that was worth knowin’; but
he was licked holler by a clergyman up
north who useter get thru 349 a night,
him reckoning that y’u on’y had to look
at the dust-jackets and remember the
last western y’u’d read. Last time that
sky pilot was heard
of he was lickin’ it
out fer Texas, him
reckoning that it was
time for a crusade
against killin’, along
of Red, Roamin’
and Sudden, not to
mention Hopalong
and Johnny Nelson
and them larrupin’
Bar 20 wildcats, each
bumpin’ off about
20 rustlers per book,
meanin’ that with at
least 4000 westerns
cornin’ out every
year, anythin’ up to
80,000 lead - filled
corpses was bein’
planted annually.
Directing the Traveller
MOST travellers in the backblocks
are familiar with the “bushman’s
map.” The most complete sample
I saw was in west Queensland.
I asked a teamster the way to Tallyho.
Squatting on his heels, he drew a line
in the dust with a stick, then made a
mark at one end.
“This is where we are,” he said, tap-
ping the mark. “You go along this track
till you come to a turn-off here (draw-
ing a branch track), leave that and keep
straight across the creek (he took his
pocket-knife and excavated a creek in
miniature); then you’ll see a hill on the
left (heap of dust raked up with both
hands); keep that on your right till you
come to a gate (he broke up some sticks
and built a fence). A mile from that
you’ll see a big tree on one side (a small
branch did for the tree), and a lot of
bones on the other side (a little pile of
sticks represented bones). There’s a
good road from there to a tank (another
excavation); you leave that, and a little
farther on there’s another turn-off (more
tracing). Take the track round the big
rock (this held up the mapping till he
found a gibber and put it in position),
and run it right along between two big
hills (a long pause to make hills), and
it’ll take you past an old hut (two bits
of bark leaned together).” And so he
went on till he had reached Tallyho.
When I left him he was building the
hotel.
Some men wander around the sub-
ject, bringing various reminiscences into
their instructions. Loquacious chaps who
like to have a pitch. I asked a man
working on the road if he knew the
track that went round by Raglan’s selec-
tion.
“Of course I know,” he replied. “I’m
the director-general on this layout. At
least, every traveller that happens along
expects me to know all the people round
an’ the tracks to their places or their
sliprails. Officially I’m the maintenance
bloke, but it’s two shovelfuls of sand,
and then ‘ls this the right road to
Wo ram?’ Another shovelful or two o’
metal, and ‘How far do you call it to
Coraki?’ ”
I said I was sorry to trouble him, but
I wouldn’t like to get lost.
“Oh, that’s all right,” he returned.
“I’m only just showin’ you that as I’m
app’inted director-general by popular
custom, I’m the right special to put you
straight.” He turned and pointed down
the road. “Do you know that track that
turns off the other side of the tea-tree
swamp?” he asked.
“Yes,” I said.
“That’s not it. There’s a red hill a bit
farther along with a stump on it. The
stump’s got a piece knocked off the side
where a wagon hit it. I think it was
Dooley’s wagon. He takes things to
town, an’ his drivin’s a bit erratic goin’
home. Then there’s a track turns off just
over the red hill. That goes to Denehy’s
selection. ’Tisn’t Denehy’s now, but”
“And where does mine turn off?”
“Two miles from Denehy’s track you’ll
see where Nolan was bogged with a load
of timber last week. Nolan keeps a pub
down at the junction. A good sort. I
remember when Nolan”
“I’ve known him since I was a boy,” I
interrupted. “I’m in a hurry to hit
Raglan’s road.”
“Well, after you pass the mudhole
you’ll see a cart track runnin’ off round
a gum log into a bit of scrub. There
used to be a great flyin-fox camp there,
but that’s gone now, I remember”
“Do I go through the scrub?” I
asked impatiently.
“Yes,” he said, “providin’ you don’t
miss the turn. Keep an eye out for the
gum log. ’Twas a bee tree one time.
Pat Denehy cut it down, an’ the bees
chased him into the scrub”
I rode off. It was nine miles to Rag-
lan’s-place, but it was straight sailing
from the gum log. Returning the same
way, I saw the maintenance man again
as he was making for his camp.
“Did you find the place?” he asked.
“Yes,” I said. “Raglan wasn’t at home
though.”
“Did you want to see him?”
“Yes. I had a letter for him. I left it
with the missus.”
“Hang it,” said he, “why didn’t you tell
me that?”
“I didn’t know it concerned you?” I
replied.
“Concerned me?” he grunted
“Jumpin’ ants, I am Tom Raglan.”
E. S. SORENSON.


i
?,
OiL 6/UL
aW/omcuv
mad tiuA
Mirrors Tell- —
If you are a woman, you
peer in the mirror often. That's
natural. You want to look your
best at all times. But your
mirror can tell you more than
you think.
The next time you look in
your mirror, put out your
tongue. Not because you don’t
like yourself—but because you
do. Now examine your tongue.
Is it coated with a furry, white
or yellowish substance?
A Sure Sign-
A coated tongue is an almost
positive sign of constipation.
Remember how the doctor
cays, "Let me see your
tongue.’’ He knows that a
coated tongue usually means
constipation. And he knows
that constipation is the most
common cause of headaches,
dizziness, biliousness, blotched
skin, “that tired feeling,” and
many worse ailments.
Nature’s Remedy—
When a coated tongue tells
you of constipation, act at
once. Don’t wait for something
worse to happen. Help nature
back to normal with a natural
laxative —with a good gentle
laxative— with Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
You will like the way Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills act.
There is no griping pain, no
depressing sickness. Swiftly
and smoothly the herbal in-
gredients stir the intestines into
activity. Soon the poisonous
wastes that were coating your
tongue are gone. Then consti-
pation cannot endanger your
health.
For coated tongue, for any
of the symptoms of common
constipation, four generations
of women have preferred the
natural remedy—Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
‘^kuyiLujr
s«*
wm
mm*
inindimniwinwiwiwm
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a high grade preparation sold at a low price.
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bite 3.
Sore and Tired Fset. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving.-—A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
|or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
| Price 2/- per box (six boxes 11/6), post
1 free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
??
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand- VP*-
ing pictures in this collection of
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone.
Price 1/6
(Postage 2d. extra)
Obtainable ,
° nly <
from
<. *
t#'
\\e
•e °>
w''' »«“*
...
.if' ,■■■•■'..■■-■
\S S
o v
••' V° e '


#
Im*
MODEL 40—
4-valve A.C. Broadcast
Superheterodyne for
local reception.
Valves: 6A7. 6F7, 42, 80.
£l2/19/6
MODEL 41—
4-valve Battery Broad-
cast Superheterodyne
for local reception.
Valves: IC6, IC4, IK6, ID4.
Complete with Bat-
teries . . 19 guineas
MODEL 50—
5 - valve A.C. Broadcast
Superheterodyne for
reception of Australian
and New Zealand
stations.
Valves: 6A7, 6D6. 75, 42, 80.
15 guineas
' y
■
MODEL 51—
5-valve A.C./D.C. Broadcast Superhetero-
dyne for reception of Australian and New
Zealand stations.
Valves; EK2V CF2, CBC 1? OL2, CY2, Cl.
19 guineas
MODEL 52
5-valve Vibrator Broadcast Superhetero-
dyne for reception of Australian and New
Zealand stations.
Valves: IC7G, IMSG, IMSG, IK7G, ILSG.
Complete with Battery, 23 guineas.
MODEL 60—
5-valve A.C. All World Superheterodyne
for reception of Australian and New
Zealand Broadcast and Overseas Short-
wave stations.
Valves: 6A7, 606, 75, 42, 80.
19 guineas
Have achieved outstanding popularity everywhere as rivals of
much larger, and more expensive consoles for CLARITY . . .
SENSITIVITY . . . DEPENDABILITY. Despite their compact
size—they measure only 14in. high x lOin. wide x 7in. deep—
they give excellent performance, and all you wish for in radio
entertainment, PLUS the advantage of being easily carried from
place to place.
m
p®
T/tw* W
MULLARD CARRY-CASE.
Particularly designed for use with the Vibrator
Mantel Model 52, thus adapting it as a Portable
Radio. The Milliard Carry-Case may, nevertheless,
be used as a snug transportable cover for ALL
Mullard Master Mantels. So convenient if you want
to take your Radio with you. Very strongly OA/
constructed in attractive leather finish.... * ,u /
Can do a great job of work where conditions are extremely difficult. They can
outdo in value for money anything else that the market has to offer. .
Mullard introduces exclusive features resulting from the combined resources of their
Overseas and Australian organisations. The designers and manufacturers have at
no time or to any degree compromised with quality.
€
lit
MODEL 718-5-valve
5-valve Battery Operated Broadcast
Console for the reception of Australian
and New Zealand stations.
Valves: IC4, IG6, IC4, 185, PM22AA.
Complete with batteries, 28 guineas.
MODEL 728-5-valve
5-valve Vibrator Powered Broadcast
Console for the reception of Australian
and New Zealand stations.
Valves: IC4, IC6, IC4, 185, ID4.
Complete with battery, 33 guineas.
MODEL SOB—
5-valve A.C. All World Superheterodyne
Console for the reception of Australian
and New Zealand Broadcast and Overseas
Short -wave stations.
Valves: 6A7, 6D6, 75, 42, 80.
25 guineas
the 90 SERIES
The Milliard All World de Luxe Consoles
Models 92, 93 and 94 (The Mullard 90
Series) give you all you have ever wished for
in Radio. Truly a superb Series, both in
performance and appearance, providing
clarity of reception and tonal quality without
peer.
MULLARD MASTER
MODEL 81, featuring
New . . . Swift . . . Silent
TELETUNING
5-valve A.C. All World Console for
reception of Australian and New Zea-
land Broadcast and Overseas Short-
wave stations. Introducing the most
fascinating and reliable tuning device
yet offered in Australia—Mullard Tele-
tuning!
Incorporating new type Octal Base Valves:
GABG, 6U7G, 686 G, 6F6G, SY3G.
27 Guineas
■
MS&G 'V ' “. e * ' ’
*P*' <" K ■
-■■' gsSlSi
••••.■,
S# ,
v
’ «•
> - %
wlm&mA''>3
m
TS.
W
$
< ■ ..
:1
■!■
a
H
'
:
:' V- ::
MODEL 92
6-valve Battery Operated All World Console for the
reception of Australian and New Zealand Broadcast and
Overseas Short-wave stations.
Incorporating new “G’.’type Octal Base Valves:
IDSG, IC7G, IDSG. 11)5G, IK 70, IFSG.
Complete with batteries, 38 guineas
MODEL 93
6-valve Vibrator Powered All World Console for the
reception of Australian and New Zealand Broadcast
and Overseas Short-wave stations.
Incorporating new “G”type Octal Base Valves:
IDSG, 107 G, IDSG, IDoG, IK7G, IFSG.
Complete with Battery, 44 guineas
MODEL 94
6-valve A.C. Superheterodyne All World Console for the
reception of Australian and New Zealand Broadcast
and Overseas Short-wave stations.
‘ Valves: 6D6, 6A7, GDG, 75, 42, 80.
33 Guineas
??
?
??
MULLARD (AUST.) PTY., LTD., 26-30 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: 87446 (4 lines).
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. : Bloch & Gerber, Ltd.; George Brown & Co.
Pty., Ltd.; Westcott Hazell & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Victoria and Tasmania: Howard Radio Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne, Hobart and Launceston.
Queensland: Trackson Bros. Pty., Ltd., Brisbane.
South Australia: R. C. Woollard, Adelaide.
West Australia: Mick Foster, Ltd., Perth.
