

st«‘
mjALj-
ISDN'
St*'* ' a
- W^ 3
tV> *'
Avrf
3.^
vrf'- 5^
*tJO- wc
-jfijfc
.ovut* 1 ?
«■trK
otfc' "at*°°
* v *'.«.»«
MflßtfttMMiil p|: :iif I
I I
--
'S < j;
°>*’ 4cf° sl
1111
I
ctU ei
CO'
sW rt l eM ,
110 i t c\-
A\^ ted tQ C °‘ x \V« tUS
** B.' iP,oP c^ s :l h^
B to
,V.e*
ptif 1
O' 1 "
ii« e
e^ ,eS ~n . Ms n“ ,« e U" 4^
dtv
A W oS
es'° 00
tIN
19
.000
o'"
.000
ie#
tty
aS eS
to
tol
ELECTRIC SHOVEL J.OADINtr
IRON ORE * IRON MONARCH, SLA.
,
mmm
THE COKE OVENS'
NEWCASTLE STEELWORKS.
1
■
%
m m
SiSSs
■i : ■ : ’ :
v
mmimmrnms
- s
•... ::SS
*'/3
- ,
'
i"!
mm
...
m
mm
LOADING PRODUCTS AT THE
STEEL WORKS WHARF NEW CAST1E
The Bulletin
Jffkj io : fyo.
Vol. 59.—N0. 3056.
Wednesday, September 7, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
JOURNALISM’S PETER PAN.
We loved you, Beverley, when you were sweet
twenty-five and never been kicked, wandering into
other people’s houses as merry and as mischievous as
a kitten ; and when you went a-frolicking down the
garden path we could have thrown you a mouse or
a ball of wool or a wee dead rat, you were such a
bundle of charm, such a Peter Pan.
Even when you pretended to grow up and cry
havoc we knew it was only another pretty little game.
We didn’t mind.
Oh dear, oh deary deary us (page 34) no, Peter
precious! We don’t even mind your writing books,
or going all Fascist in the latest (from Cape, per
Dymock’s, Sydney)— News of England. It wasn’t we
who called you Beverley Fickle. We understand. We
even understand why in this recantation of Cry Havoc
you still advertise that masterpiece for sale on the
back cover. If we can change our met-a-phor (ask
Oswald to tell you what a metaphor is), you always
were a duckling (not an ugly duckling, dear), and if
you want to hide your poor, pretty head under some-
body’s wing, Mosley’s is as good as anybody’s. We
suppose Donald Duck wouldn’t have you at any price.
And we know, too, that being a bit of a journal-
ist (ask Oswald to tell you what a journalist is) you
must keep in tune with your public. Pacifists are out
of fashion, so how very, very lucky for you it was that
you’ve now decided that you would fight for Eng-
land, just at the time when a book saying that is likely
to sell by the thousand. Ask Uncle Oswald what a
royalty is, ducky.
No, Beverley, it’s not that that makes us want to
weep for you. It’s because when you write a book
you mustn’t make it what green-colored passengers on
the Awatea would call a strawberry-box.
We put it to you, Peter:
Page 33—An arrangement has been tried, in co-
operation with Egham District Council, for employing
police to patrol the island of Runnymede. If you are
any the wiser, I am not. If you are impressed, I am
not. And if you do not feel sick, I do.
Page 44. —There is something a little nauseating
about the sudden conversion to pacifism....
Page 47.- —Such a spectacle is revolting to any man
of peace.
Page 68. —I do not really wish to fly. It is cold,
wet and windy, and I have eaten duck for lunch.
Page 88. —Hundreds of people, staggering, shouting
and in some cases being sick.
Page 192 (doubtful). —I always think of Freddie
Ashton against a background of yellow.
Page 261 (Quickly, steward!). —And here were the
white cockroaches crawling round my ankle, getting very
near to the gap between my socks and my overalls.
I bent down and brushed them off. As I did so I felt
slightly sick.
And that’s how we feel. But don’t imagine we
want to lose the picture of you groaning, folding your
hands and closing your eyes on top of buses and in
other public places. How your fellow-passengers must
love you on the bus:
Page 27. —This may or may not be a matter of
concern to you, on aesthetic grounds. There are so
many people who are able to live in surroundings of
blatant hideousness without noticing them. They can
travel down the Strand on the top of a bus without
having to shut their eyes.
Page 119. —You only see ugly shops, and ugly pubs,
and ugly trams, and such a general embarrassment
of ugliness that you jump into a taxi as quickly as
possible and close your eyes until you have arrived in
some district less painful to the vision.
“A sensitive plant in a garden grew,” and, Bev.,
the poet was thinking of you. Pet, you want blinkers.
But it mustn’t lose its temper. Look at these naughty,
naughty words:
Page 33.—Admittedly, we are losing our temper.
Page 39.—1 have been quite angry enough in this
chapter without becoming any angrier.
Page 60.—Let me call a witness who is far more
qualified to express his indignation than I am—Jim
Mollison.
Page 108. —I make no apologies for losing my
temper. I lose it not only as a Christian, but also as a
man who detests muddle-headedness.
Beverley, don’t stamp! This is what we want
from you:
Page 39.—1 n the same paper was published a short
paragraph announcing the death of my dog. I was
snowed under with -letters of condolence from all parts
of Great Britain.
Page 53.—1 t is chill in here inside this air-raid shelter,
in this great cave which stretches and stretches,
through dark to greater dark, under the towering
hills. Chill, and a little frightening in its loneliness.
Page 55. —And as I turn the corner I see a little boy
with a tear-stained face, clinging whimpering to the
wall. Just a little boy who had got lost in the dark.
Page 280.—1 t is the same with me. “Myself when
young did eagerly frequent, doctor and saint, and heard
great argument, about it and about, but evermore, came
out by that same door as in I went.” Came out
into nothingness. Into emptiness and desolation.
And into print. As a journalist, Beverley, we’ll
admit you have your moments. We’ll admit freely,
before we really Start to read you the Riot Act, that,
though half of this book about the sloth and decad-
ence of England is boring twaddle, half of it is news.
It’s worth while hearing that Britain’s gambling turn-
over is £400,000,000 a year; that the football pools,
in a population of 44 million, draw 30 million letters
a week; that there are more persons in England
devoted to the propagation of gambling than are en-
gaged professionally in the propagation of religion.
We like your comparison of the lunacy of astrology
with a passage from Gibbon about the increase of
superstition that accompanied the decline of Rome.
And if Mosley’s followers are as numerous as you say,
then it’s a darn good job you told us about it—though
it mightn’t be so good from their point of view.
And you can still be bright at times; it’s a good
picture of Oxford, when disturbed by publicity—
“ Ancient deans flap out of their rookeries, caw three
times and disappear again.”
But, when you can write as well as that, why do
you shamelessly pinch an aphorism; and why, having
pinched it, are you so silly as to give the show away?
On page 14 you say “Every other village is an adver-
tisement of the fact that we are not only a nation of
shopkeepers but a nation of usurious vandals.” Very
good. But on page 37 you unconsciously let the cat
out of the bag with: “As Robert Byron, the deputy-
chairman of the Georgian group, has observed, ‘We
were always a nation of shopkeepers, but we used not
to be, consciously, a nation of usurious vandals.’ ”
No doubt you were in a hurry when you wrote
News of England. Haste is the only possible excuse
for your odd observation on page 25: “We are back
again, marching on the old road that leads so far
from Tipperary. But we are marching out of step,
without a song, and we are marching in circles.” How
the Bevil does one get so far from Tipperary when
one’s circling round it?
We’ll forgive you; civilisation may be running
rapidly backwards downhill with its legs crossed for
all we know. But we do know, dear Peter Pannikin,
bad sentimental writing when we see it, and we do
know plain nonsense, and here they both are:
A nation’s architecture is even more valuable as
evidence for the historian than a nation’s literature.
The philosophy of Plato, the plays of ALschylus, the
method of Aristotle . . . these we have with us in their
entirety. But though they give us a whole world in which
we can live, dream and have our being, they do not
tell us so much as the broken columns of the Acropolis.
These have the simplicity of flowers blooming in the
desert. They stand out, white and flawless, against a
backcloth of barbarism. And though their carven
petals may fall in dust about them, as long as a single,
stem remains we have before us a triumphant tribute
to the glory that was Greece. As Oscar Wilde says
As Mehitabel says, wotthehell, Beverley ; wotthe-
hell! You’ve been reading Gilbert Frankau on the
Taj Mahal.
Bev., this review wants to be friendly, a sort of
heart-to-heart chat, like your book; you call us
“You” all the time, and we call you “Bev.,” and
really it’s only at the rarest moments we lose our
temper or feel slightly sick about you. We do when
you go peering into the grim privacy of the unem-
ployed ; and we do when you talk about the wonder-
ful sins you sinned before you gained “enough dis-
cipline to apply oneself to better things” ; and we do
when you say “And some of us think that is a pity”
(p. 28 and p. 165); and we do when you talk about
fashionable parties and say “If you have never been
to one of these pageants.” That strikes us as
funny, after you’ve been reproaching “Punch” for the
snob-joke.
We wish you didn’t think you were a Bernard
Shaw to get away with this sort of skite:
Page 134—The Oxford Union is probably the most
famous debating society in the world. To become its
president is the highest ambition of every undergraduate
with a taste for politics. Among past holders of this
office are Prime Ministers, Lord Chancellors, Archbishops,
Viceroys . . , and an occasional oddity such as myself.
Page 17. —I have done as much as most English
writers to gain support for the League.
Page 18.—In the meantime I and thousands of others
resigned from the League.
You and Hitler, Bev.?
And must you “happen to find yourself” in
Poland, Rome, Berlin, Dover and Hogwash-under-
the-Hill all the time? How did you happen to lose
yourself in the first place? But, as we said, we don’t
want to carp. It would be grossly ungrateful, for no
one but you, Bev., could have suggested out of a blue
sky: —-
You must not express any obvious emotions in
public. For instance, if you have a baby (to which you
are just as devoted as any Victorian mother), you must
refer to it as a hideous little brat.
Believe us, Bev., it will be!
One-act Plays.
The one-act play has had a hard row to hoe. It
is of very humble origin, beginning life as that
theatrical doormat the curtain-raiser. The curtain-
raiser was just something to keep the groundlings quiet
whilst the expensive seats finished their dinners.
Heaven knows who wrote curtain-raisers, but the
rise of repertory societies and, in America, the exten-
sive use of plays in schools, created a demand for
one-act plays of high literary quality. Some of the
leading playwrights—Synge, Barrie, Galsworthy, Lady
Gregory, Yeats —began to give their attention to the
form. The curtain-raiser and the vaudeville for-
gathered—the one-act play developed toward litera-
ture.
It is now finding a secondary market as reading
matter. It took the public some time to acquire the
play-reading habit, but once acquired many people
prefer a short play to a short story as being more
lively, concise and concentrated.
The market for the one-act play is there, but the
greatest obstacle in its path remains—the difficulty of
writing it. It is one of the most difficult of all literary
forms. It is in constant flight from its own limita-
tions, it can afford no margin of error like the full-
length play. It takes great ingenuity to fit any but
the slightest themes into its narrow limits. The conse-
quence is that there are very few really good one-act
plays.
Twenty-five Modern One-act Plays (Gollancz ;
Angus and Robertson ; edited by John Bourne) is a
most satisfactory collection. It is a little world
between covers, and in it are included examples of
nearly all the manners and matters that hold the
boards to-day. Many well-known names appear on
the title page, Bax, Brighouse, Dukes, Housman,
Bridie, Anthony Armstrong. There are comedies, fan-
tasies, tragedies—some raw and a few underdone —
slices of life, historical reconstructions. Styles range
from the fluent modern technique—influenced by im-
pressionism and the cinema—of such pieces as Arm-
strong’s “In the Dentist’s Chair” to ancient but well-
oiled pieces of mechanism such as Philip Johnson’s
“It’s Autumn Now,” with its routine of coincidences
and mistaken identities, or to dramatised novelettes
such as Herman Ould’s “Tangled Skeins.”
Some of them, such as Esther McCracken’s
“Behind the Lace Curtains,” play safe; and others,
such as Sylvaine’s “Everything’s Just the Same,” take
a risk. There are two plays in verse, Bottomley’s
“The Falconer’s Daughter” and Ashley Dukes’s “The
Players’ Dressing-room”; a couple of politicals; a
war play, “Shells,” by L. Du Garde Peach ; a rich
medieval fabric, “Tragic Nesta,” by Clifford Bax;
and a swarm of well-made plays, good theatre, con-
structed to entertain.
If the palm goes to any it is to the historical
reconstructions, as these, unexpectedly, provide the
liveliest reading in the volume. In “William’s Other
Anne” Ivor Brown has drawn a picture of Shakspeare’s
youth set to the generous Elizabethan rhythm. H. F.
Rubenstein has hit off the age of patronage subtly
and wittily in “Johnson Was No Gentleman.” “Mirror
to Elizabeth,” by T. B. Morris —for an all-feminine
cast —is a dramatic picture of England waiting for
news of the Armada. James Lansdale Hudson’s
“Before Trafalgar” exploits to the full the audience’s
knowledge of impending tragedy as background to a
scene between Nelson and his captains. Wilfred
Grantham has a biblical drama, “The Sixth Hour.”
Perhaps the best is Laurence Housman’s compact
little piece “The Village Conjurer.” It contains this
succinct account of one man’s war experiences:
“Went over the top when I was told.. . Fell into
a hole. . . Couldn’t get out of it... When they
got me out the war was over.”
The publisher works out the cost to the reader
at 2|d. a play. They come a little dearer in Australia
—but the money’s worth is there.
"Germany Speaks."
In their publishers’ note to Germany Speaks
(review copy from Angus and Robertson), Thornton
Butte rworth include the comment of Baron von
Neurath:
This book should be looked upon as an earnest
endeavor on the part of the Germany created by Adolf
Hitler to explain to her neighbor across the North Sea
her plans and achievements, her desires and aims. I
therefore venture to express the wish that its thoughts
and words may not pass unheard, but he received in a
spirit of understanding and friendship. I personally
believe that a frank discussion before the public of the
world between these two great and kindred nations
should constitute a valuable contribution towards the
advent of peace to Europe and the whole world. It is
in this spirit that I wish every success to Germany
Speaks.
Its chapters are written, at the English publishers’
invitation, by 21 leading German authorities, their
purpose being, in the words of the Reich Minister
for Foreign Affairs, Herr von Ribbentrop, “to bring
those problems and ideas which actuate life in Ger-
many closer to the understanding of the English.”
A.B.C. could do worse than get hold of the broad-
casting rights, if only by way of retort to the prevalent
idea that its preference for talkers who are Pink in
their political outlook largely rules out any under-
standing of Germany being reached in Australia via
broadcasting.
At any rate, the book should be read. Many
will find much in it with which to disagree, but no-
body who hopes to be acquainted with realities in
foreign affairs can afford to pass it over.
The book is in four parts: (1) “Fundamental
Principles of the New Germany,” with chapters on
the Unitary State, population, racial thought, women,
education, etc.; (2) “How Germans Live —Labor,”
and (3) “How Germans Live —Leisure” ; (4) “Germany
and the World,” with chapters by Dr. Schacht, General
von Epp and others on Germany’s position in world
economy, the colonies problem, the press and world
politics, “Germany and England: What Has Been,
What Is, What Ought to Be.”
The book is crowded with information, but its
statement is most clearly and frankly made. It leaves
no excuse for any misunderstanding about modern
Germany’s viewpoint.
To the Dardanelles.
James Hanley, who in a very short time has
published ten books, shows no diminution of literary
force. His latest, Hollow Sea (John Lane), is the
finest piece of work he has done yet, and should carry
him into the forefront of contemporary novelists.
It is the description, intense, sustained, complete,
of the voyage of the troopship AlO, sailing under
secret orders from Avonmouth to the Dardanelles with
1400 men aboard. She runs the gauntlet of sub-
marines, is chased once, but comes safely to her
destination.
The disembarkation of the troops was ordered
for night time, but there was a full moon —-Authority
had overlooked that—and as it rose its effulgence
outlined the transport; the shore batteries opened
fire on her just as she was lowering boats full of men.
One shot took her amidships, another smashed two
of her boats. It was chaos and disaster. The order
came to pick up what wounded she could and pro-
ceed at once to Alexandria.
The AlO limped away with 200 wounded and a
number of dead, including her first officer and the
ship’s doctor. She was not equipped to carry
wounded ; no doctor, no supplies. The stewards did
what they could. Some of the wounded went mad,
o Continued on page 8.)


‘TRUTH. IN ADVERTISING” —always
‘THE SENIOR STORE:
MEN'S HATS
t/!A
\
H 4
mm
■
r
\\ Ml II
c /•?
it
I 1 - ‘
I*
■v
jg| -
c
" ■*'l
IV !
2
y
"
X N
X
N
A
\ v
x
\
0
«
*
! !i
I 1
A
V
SS3S
y^
■
■
m
m
m:
a
P
iWHILE i UVE Til GROW
★ “BATTERSBY”
A - High grade English Hat. Smart Snap brim style. Satin lining. Med-
ium width brim. Light, Medium and Dark Grey shades . . also Fawns
and Browns. AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. PRICE, each 30/-
99
★ “WOODROW
8.. Another important style ! . . and one of England's best. A quality hat that
bears the stamp of excellence. Medium width snap brim. Silk lining, (grease-
proof Leather. Light, Steel or Slate Greys, Fawn and Browns
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. PRICE - 37/6
★ “SOVEREIGN”
C.: Smart for the business man! The "Sovereign'* Hat is blocked in
Pure Fur Felt with medium width brim Choose from Light Grey,
Fawn or Brown AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. PRICE, each 20/-
★ “AKUBRA”
D • “Akubra" Pure Fur Felt Hats featured in three famous qualities Dressy snap
brims from 2 to 2i inches wide. Colours are Light, Zinc, Steel and Slate Greys
. . Fawn and Brown also. Qualities Boomerang. High. Superfine.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. PRICES, each _—— 19/6 25/- 32/6
★ “SERVICE” s
E. A popular make in Pure Fur Felt. 2} to 2$ inches wide. Dressy
snap brim shape. Light, medium and dark Greys, Fawns and Browns
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. PRICE, each - 17/6
★ “TREE” BRAND 1
F. The “Tree” Brand Hat is of Pure
value. 2\ to 2\ inch snap brim.
Fawn and Brown AT ANTHONY
★ a ten’s Hats Ground Floor —George Street. Freight pmd to ajl Railway stations
and seaports in. the Commonwealth.
Fur Felt and a
Light, Mid, Steel ancD’Slate Grey,
HORDERNS'. PRICE/ *\ch. 12/6?
V vmatmeto ssaaa**
ANTHONY
£
' ■
I
I
BOX 2712 C. G.P.O
SYDNEY


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for “The Bulletin’s” Short Story
Competition are:
First £7O
Second . . £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
Trouble for the Baron Von Big
BELL’S LINE.
J- H-M- ABBOTT
fcfc I N the course of the year 1827,” writes the Baron
Von Big, “a very remarkable thing happened
I to me and I made a notable journey—perhaps
the most notable and hurried 1 have ever made
anywhere.
“Ten years had I been an Australian and, being
young and adaptable, had become, as it were, a Corn-
stalk among the Cornstalks, as they used to designate
the lanky and self-sufficient youths of the first and
second generations of Hawkesbury settlers. Always
have I been a good German and proud of my origin,
but always also have I felt with even greater pride
that Australians of the first vintages regarded me as
one of themselves.
“One of my earliest friends was a settler on the
Hawkesbury who resided at the place named by
Governor Phillip Richmond Hill, a little knoll west-
ward of the stream in the direction of its confluence
with the Grose River. Here he had built his home-
stead, Belmont, and founded his estate. This was
Archibald Bell, Esquire, lately of the New South
Wales Corps, a gentleman of much greater worth than
the average of his brother officers in that somewhat
discredited battalion.
“His son Archie was. a young man perhaps a
dozen years my junior, and we were on terms of great
intimacy and mutual respect. Archie Bell contained
in his character all that was best in the upper strata
of the ‘Currency Lads’ of the day, and it has been
my privilege through many years to observe his
advancement as a colonist and pioneer. He was a
fine young bushman of the best type —daring, level-
headed and generous of disposition, and such a man
as it was to anyone’s advantage to number among his
friends.
“In the early part of the year I had come down-
from Salamanca, my station near Bathurst, to give
some personal attention to my estate of Pampeluna at
Castle Hill, by Parramatta. It was my intention to
reside there for some months, and, having selected
an attractive female housekeeper, I was very comfort-
ably installed in the fine mansion I had built, enjoy-
ing a period of comparative rest in civilisation after
nearly a year of the barbarous uncouthness of frontier
life on the western plains.
“It was this woman who was the cause of my
making that abominable, unpleasant and fatiguing
excursion in the wilderness of the Blue Mountains,
and even to-day, as I write, my gorge rises in angry
contemplation of the scurvy way the hussy treated
me and the humiliation I endured owing to her per-
fidious conduct. That I, Augustus Von Big, should
have been compelled to assume the garb of a cuckold
is too intolerable. Never had such a thing happened
to me before —never, I took good care, did it happen
afterwards.
< < U ATILDA DULHUNTY was a beautiful Irish
‘ * girl who had been transported to this country
for murderously assaulting a gentleman in Dublin.
Her temper was imperious and her nature passionate,
and perhaps I was well rid of the baggage, but I did
not so console myself at the time. I had sought a
housekeeper at the Factory, the depot for female
prisoners in Parramatta, and made no long business
of selecting Mattie when the available women were
paraded for my inspection by the Superintendent. Her
figure and features were good, her smile seductive and
her willingness to enter my service quite gratifying.
“ ‘Och, thin, sorr,’ she laughed when interro-
gated as to her views on the matter, ‘what poor gur-rl
wouldn’t wish for to luk afther so foine a gintleman
as y’r honor’s silf? Sure, ’tis dayloighted I’d be for
to go wid ye to Castle Hill, sorr.’
“So I drove her home to Pampeluna and installed
her as the temporary keeper of my home. For some
time I had no reason to regret my choice.
“It was on my return from a two days’ visit to
Sydney that I became aware of the shameful betrayal
which this hotheaded Irishwoman had inflicted upon
me. My servant, Michael Costello, informed me of
it immediately I alighted from my gig in the stable-
yard, at Pampeluna.
“ ‘Sorr,’ he said, as I climbed down over the high
wheel, ‘ye’ll be mindful o’ Driscoll —Paddy Driscoll,
him ye put over the vineyard?’
“‘Yes —what of him?’ I replied.
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
“ ‘Faith, thin, ’tis that same long-legged rap-
scallion’s been afther a-puttin’ y’r nose out o’ jint,
Bar’n,’ he said, ‘axin’ y’r pardon.’
“ ‘Putting my nose out of joint, Costello? What
the devil d’ye mean by that?’
“ ‘He’s tuk Mattie Dulhunty, an’ he’s tuk th’ mare
Polly an’ y’r honor’s hack Warrigal, an’s off an’
away.’
“ ‘Good God! ’ I exclaimed. ‘And when did this
happen, Mick?’
“ ‘Daylight this morn, sorr. Him an’ she, they
wint off down th’ Parrymatty-road afore sunrise, an’
they’ve give ye leg bail, the both of ’em. ’Twere
mesilf rode into town so soon’s I knew of it, an’ got
on their thracks at the Dun Cow, where they’d a bite
o’ breakfast. Paddy tould old Haileybury they was
bound for Salamanca, an’ you was cornin’ afther
thim.’
“ ‘By the Lord! ’ I shouted. ‘l’m going after them
right enough, and God help Pat Driscoll when I
come up with them. Saddle the bay colt, Mick, and
I’ll be off so soon as I’ve had some supper.’
“In furious dudgeon I galloped into Parramatta
that evening and interviewed John Haileybury, the
landlord of the inn to which Costello had traced the
fugitives.
“ ‘Yes,’ I was informed, ‘they breakfasted at the
Dun Cow, and then went off along the Bathurst road.
Well supplied with funds, they seemed,’ said Hailey-
bury, ‘and very content with themselves. Perhaps if
you hurried yourself you might overtake them before
morning, for they seemed to be in no haste and were
taking it easy. Mightily pleased with themselves, they
were,’ he told me.
“U/ ITH bitter curses I mounted and went after
* * them, in the direction of Emu Ford. By the
merest chance I learned at the inn at South Creek
that they had there turned northward, in the direction
of Richmond. So I rode without rest until, some
time after midnight, I came to the Black Horse in
that village, and made clamorous knocking on the
front door of the tavern. Even then it was a resort
of honeymoon couples, and I had an idea that my
Irish colleen and her new consort might very well
have decided upon spending the night in its comfort-
able surroundings, feeling confident that I would be
looking for them along the main western highway.
But when an angry landlord blasphemously responded
to my insistent hammering from an upper window I
found the birds had flown, after resting for a few
hours, and that mine host neither knew nor cared
whither they had betaken themselves. They might go
to hell for all he was concerned, and so might I.
“ ‘Look ye! ’ I shouted at the fellow’s night-capped
head. ‘lf I break down the door and come up to ye.
my man, I’ll teach ye some civility.’
“ ‘Civility !’ he howled. ‘D’ye call it civil to come
kickin’ up that sort of a row after one o’clock in the
morning, a-wakin’ up the whole town? Damn
ye —what is’t ye want, then?’
“ ‘Come down and give me a drink,’ I told him,
‘and I’ll leave you in peace. I want a word or two
with you. You’ll be well paid for it.’
x “With a grumbling curse he withdrew from the
window, and presently the door was unbarred. Lead-
ing the way with a lighted candle he took me into
the bar. There I had two stiff brandies and acquired
a little information.
“Mattie and her man, it seemed, had ridden
across the river towards the mountains, and the land-
lord had an idea they were making for the ranges.
“ ‘Yes,’ he said, ‘that’ll be it, mister. ’Tis over
there ye’ll have to look for ’em. Over there in them
hills. Mebbe they knows some settler will put ’em up
on the fur side o’ the Bull Ridge. An’ mebbe ’tis
into the mountains they’re a-ridin’.’
“‘Good God!’ I exclaimed. ‘Where’d they be
going to in the mountains?’
“ ‘Well, mebbe they’d be a-makin’ for Bathurst.’
“‘Bathurst!’ I said. ‘But they can’t get to
Bathurst that way. They’d have to come back to the
main road by Emu Ford and Lapstone Hill.’
“ ‘Main road be damned! Ain’t ye never ’eard o’
Bell’s Line?’
“ ‘Bell’s Line?’ I replied. ‘What’s that?’
. “ ‘Why, the track across the ranges Archie Bell
discovered an’ follered up three or four year ago.
In the springtime o’ ’23, it was, he got through to
Collits’ Inn, beyond Mount York. They take cattle
along it now, an’ bring ’em in. Archie Bell done a
stroke when he found that track.’
“ ‘My old friend Archibald Bell, of Belmont?’
“ ‘Young Archie —him’s the one done it.’
“Strange it was, but I had never heard of it.
At once I made up my mind that the runaways were
making for the western plains by this new passage
of the Blue Mountains. I thanked my informant and
rode on, intending to call at Belmont and borrow a
fresh horse from the Bells. Then I would continue
the pursuit of my faithless housekeeper and her para-
mour. I was very bitter. She would go back to the
Factory and Paddy Driscoll I’d try to land at the
Coal River, where my friend Major Morrisett, the
Commandant, might be relied upon to make life in-
teresting to the villain. I would teach them to flout
Augustus Von Big.
‘‘ I CROSSED the river in the moonlit small hours
1 and arrived at Belmont, where many dogs gave
me welcome enough to wake the dead in Richmond
churchyard, just as the eastern sky was paling behind
me into the beginning of another day. I was tired
and my horse had cast a shoe, but the heartiness of
the welcome given me by the Bells, father and son,
even at that unseasonable hour, did much to alleviate
my fatigue.
“‘The damned rascals!’ cried Archibald Bell,
senior, when I told my tale of perfidy and betrayal.
Far down below us, blue-hazed and immense,
stretched the old Cumberland County.


‘There’s the wretched morality of the convict class for
you, Baron! But don’t despair —we’ll help to catch em
for ye. You shall have the best mount in my stables,
and my boy Archie will ride with you along the track
he’s discovered to the Bathurst road and the Vale of
Clwydd. Archie,’ he cried, ‘hurry ’em up with break-
fast and make ready to go with the Baron yourself.’
“Just as the sun was gilding the purple heights
of the Kurrajong, young Archie and I resumed the
chase. We rode away from hospitable Belmont in the
highest spirits, myself cheered by the prospect of
revenge and my young companion eager to demon-
strate his ability and prowess as an explorer. I was
exceedingly well-mounted, and so was young Archie.
We both carried a brace of pistols, and slung across
our shoulders were two short-barrelled muskets, of
Mi. Bell’s own importation from London, capable of
hitting a target at five hundred yards.
“ ‘Ye’ll find ’em useful if you have to fire across
a gorge to bring down their horses,’ said Mr. Bell
as he handed them up to us when we were in our
saddles. ‘Good luck and a safe return, my best of
Barons.’
“Slowly we walked our horses up the long and
steep slope leading to the top of that series of foot-
hills to fhe Blue Mountains known as the Kurrajong.
There was a well-defined track, with marked trees
upon the right-hand side, and when we reached the
summit at a clear place called Picture Hill we drew
rein to rest our sweating horses, and at Archie’s invi-
tation 1 turned in the saddle to contemplate the view.
“Truly, 1 almost gasped for breath. Never have
I looked upon, before or since, such a noble prospect,
and though in the years between I have several times
halted at that point on Bell’s Line to admire the view
to the eastward, the impression it made upon me that
morning remains as vividly entrancing as it was in the
cool, fresh hour after sunrise.
“Far down below us, blue-hazed and immense,
sti etched the old Cumberland County, proclaimed by
Governor Phillip after he had first looked upon it in
grateful admiration nearly forty years before. The
crests of wooded hills rolled from beneath our fept
down to the winding silver reaches of the Hawkesbury,
and across its waters wide lands stretched east and
north and south as far as the eye could see. So
enamored was I of that splendid view that I forgot
the reason for my being there, and was only recalled
to it by the words of my companion as he gathered
up his reins and turned his horse’s head towards the
frowning ranges that confronted us to the westward.
‘Fine, isn’t it, Baron? But we’d best be pushing on.
We’ve a long way to go before we catch ’em up, and
they’ve got a good start of us. It’s a good way to
Cox’s River.’
“North-west we rode at first along a mere track
through the tall timber, and then westward towards
Mount Tomah, a huge rounded bulk of mountain
across which young Archie told me lay our route.
About half-way up this steep declivity my guide
turned towards the south, riding along the line of
marked trees. Then we descended into the jungle of
the valley, rising slowly round the side of another
mountain opposite to Tomah for about a mile and a
half in a nor’-west direction. Then, along a series of
razor-backed ridges connecting different minor sys-
tems of the wild ranges, we bore westward until, half-
way through the afternoon, on a steep incline, Archie’s
horse stumbled and came down, giving its rider a tre-
mendous fall down the mountain’s side. It was with
great relief that I saw him scramble to his feet and
come clambering up the steep slope to where his
horse was struggling to rise some twenty yards below
me. He seized the bridle and attempted to assist the
kicking and terrified animal into an upright position,
but with no success. Then he straightened up and
called out to me: ‘A broken leg, Baron—nothing for
it but to shoot the poor fellow.’
“So he retrieved the musket which his fall had de-
tached from his shoulders, and presently a bullet in
the head ended the unfortunate beast’s sufferings.
Then we debated what was to be done.
“After much argument —Archie wishing strongly
to accompany me on foot, and myself protesting
against such a course —I at length prevailed upon him
to turn back to Belmont, whilst I continued the chase
alone. So, as the sun was sinking down towards dis-
tant ranges in the west, we parted, and I rode on.
“ ‘Keep the blazed trees on your off side and
you’ll be all right, Baron,’ he shouted after me. ‘Good
luck go with you.’
1 ‘ | LEFT my luck on the mountainside with Archie
1 Bell, and if ever a friendly wish was falsified his
was to me that afternoon.
“I had no difficulty in following the marked trees,
and as the going was mostly downhill the coming of
sunset found me a good many miles nearer the wide
valley along which ran the road to Bathurst. Already
1 had recognised several landmarks in the distance
with which oft-repeated passages along the highway
to the interior of the colony had made me familiar. It
was just dark as I rode out of a little gorge in the
foothills and came into the level country which Gov-
ernor Macquarie had named the Vale of Clwydd.
1 knew then that I was no great distance from Collits’
Inn, where I hoped to obtain tidings of my quarry.
And here disaster came upon me with overwhelming
suddenness.
Out of a dark clump of wattles a stab of flame
pierced the darkness., and I heard the crack of a
musket. Immediately my horse, with a scream of
tenor and pain, reared over backwards. I felt a
stunning crack in the back of my head, accompanied
by a blaze of fireworks, a spasm of sharp pain that
Out of a dark clump of wattles a stab of flame
pierced the darkness.
seemed to split my skull, and then lapsed into dream-
less unconsciousness.
“When I came to, my bewildered eyes were filled
with a blaze of light from a great roaring fire, on
the further side of which, regarding me with a mocking
smile on her fair and false face, stood that damnable
female Matilda Dulhunty. Over me stooped, fumbling
with his hands about my body, Patrick Driscoll, who,
I soon realised, was just putting the finishing touches
to a thoroughly complete and effective trussing-up of
my helpless person. My legs were lashed together at
knees and ankles, and my wrists secured in front of
my body.
“‘Damn you!’ I grunted to Driscoll. ‘What the
devil are you about?’
“A shrill scream of laughter came from the hussy
beyond the fire.
“ ‘Oh, dear Augustus,' she cried, ‘I hope you
like your bed. For you 11 have to lie there until some-
one finds ye. Paddy and me, we’ll sleep at Collits’
Inn. Sure, I’ll often think of me bold big German
bhoy-o whin I’m back in ould Ireland. We're for
Sydney at daylight, Augustus, and there’s a ship await-
ing us. So give us good luck, won’t ye?’
“‘Be quiet, Tilda, won’t ye?’ growled Paddy
Driscoll. ‘Come, let’s ride to the inn. He won’t get
away. Good luck to ye, Baron Von Big. I bear
ye no malice—ye’re not a*bad sort. Sleep aisy.’
“I heard them ride away, and that was the last 1
ever heard of them. I was found towards evening on
the following day.
“But what a thing to happen to Augustus Von
Big! I took great care that no one knew of it. That
story was never told.”
PARTNERS
BY A. C. HEADLEY.
n I OUIS,” said Mr. Horselman, blinking his eyes,
“buyin’ and sellin’ it ain’t no trate, it’s a pre-
I fession. You gotter understan’s value. A
article’s worse so much, so much you gotter
pay for it, an’ so much you sells it for. Now you
have decides to be my partner you gotter learn to
make plans. Louis, now I gots a partners, I gotter
plan.”
“What’s the plan?” said Louis. “And don’t forget
that the only money in the partnership is mine.”
Mr. Horselman grinned. “It won’t cost much,
Louis. It’s books, Louis. Books and brains.”
“I’m listening,” said Louis.
“Right,” said Mr. Horselman, “I go to the sales
to-day and buys a book, an old book. After I have
bought the book a gentleman comes into the sales-
rooms and says five pounts would I gif for that book.
But it is gone, and all the dealers knows that Horsel-
man has it. They come after me. But I don’t sells
it until one of them offers me four pounts.”
“Yeah,” said Louis, “but who’s the gent, to come
in and offer five quid in the auction-room?”
Mr. Horselman smiled. “It’s you, Louis. I go
to the sales an’ buys the book an’ then I rings you
ups and tells you the names of the book, and you
goes and speaks your speeches. And you leaves a
wrong address.”
Louis grinned. “It don’t sound like it will cost .
much anyway. We’ll give it a burl.”
HPHEY gave it a burl, Mr. Horselman had no diffi-
* culty in obtaining the book. He rang Louis.
“Louis,” he said, “I got it. Amity, the Strength of
Man, by Robert Scriviner.”
Half an hour later Louis had completed his share
in the conspiracy and was hidden in the back room
to await developments. Mr. Horselman, with the book
open, waited also.
A knock sounded on the door.
“Comes in,” said Mr. Horselman.
A gentleman, his face red from unaccustomed
exertion, entered the room.
“ ’Ullo, Cohens,” said Mr. Horselman, “what's
you wants?”
Cohen flopped into a chair. “I want that book,
Horsey. That book you bought this morning. One
of my clients wants it. I’ll give you ten bob.”
Horselman grinned. “I got a clients, too,” he
announced. “Maybe he’d wants it better than ten
bobs.”
“A quid,” said Cohen.
“Maybe he wants it more than a quid,” said
Mr. Horselman. “Maybe he wants it two quids.”
“All right,” said Cohen, “I’ll make it three.”
Mr. Horselman grinned. “Maybe I don’t sells it
at all. seeing you wants it so much.”
Cohen choked.
“Four,” he said, “and that’s the final. Take it or
leave it.”
“0.K5.,” said Mr. Horselman, “I takes it.”
Cohen counted the notes into Mr. Horselman’s
hand and took his leave.
Louis came out from the back room.
“Horsey,” he said, “you’re worth your weight in
gold.”
THE next day Mr. Horselman discovered the adver-
usement. JLouis was staring out of the window
when his partner’s excited yelp demanded his atten-
tion.
“What’s the matter?” he demanded.
“Louis,” said Mr. Horselman, “look!”
Louis’s eyes followed Mr. Horselman’s pudgy
finger. He read:
Wanted: Amity, the Strength of Man, by Robert
Scriviner. Advertiser willing to pay twenty-five pounds
lor genuine copy. Reply 1693 George Street.
Louis grinned. “Looks like Cohen has the same
ideas.”
“But it ain’ts Cohen,” Mr. Horselman cried. His
fat finger pointed to the top of the paper. “It’s
lasts week’s papers, Louis. Twenty-five pounts, Louis.
It mus’ be a rare book. Louis, we gotter get that
book.”
Louis was thoughtful.
“Horsey,” he said, “ain’t I the feller that offered
a fiver for it? I can go up to Cohen with the fiver.
He’ll sell it all right.”
Cohen was home when they reached the board-
ing-house where he lived. He frowned when he saw
Louis.
“Whadyer mean,” he said, “givin’ a wrong
address? I get your book for you, and when I take
it out people think I’m mad trying to sell them a
book for five quid. What’s the game, eh?”
Louis smiled.
“1 had reasons,” he annodnced calmly. He
plunged his hand into, his coat and drew out a wallet.
“Five pounds, I said.”
“I’ve been put to a lot of trouble,” said Cohen,
suddenly ; “I ain’t sure that I’ll sell it for five. If
you’re willing to pay five you’re willing to pay ten.
It must be a valuable book. I’ve a good mind to take
it to a bookseller.”
“I’ll give you seven,” said Louis, “and that’s
final.”
“In that case,” Cohen grinned, “it’s gone up to
twelve, and I ain’t sure I’ll sell it.”
Mr. Horselman nudged Louis.
“You better take it,” he said in an undertone,
“we don’ wants him to make no ’quiries.”
“All right,” said Louis, addressing Cohen, “I’ll
give you twelve.”
“Count ’em out,” said Cohen, “and the book’s
yours.”
A WEEK later Mr. Horselman was sitting in the
parlor of the Kingswear Hotel. Every now and
then he exchanged a grin with his companion.
“Cohens,” he said, “Louis writs a letter to the
advertisements but he don’t get no answers.”
Cohen’s laugh filled the small room.
“Horsey,” he said, “when do we get a new
partner?”


”Only a Platinum Affectation” —Mrs. Parsley
THE INFERNAL TUMULT
BY WAROLD MERCER
j K lIGHT errands,” said Mrs. Parsley primly,
I “are things that I don’t want to have in my
I I establishment of hanging around it. They
don’t sound respectable to me. So I told
him he might be better suited in some other resi-
dential.”
The young man I had seen inspecting a flat had
told my landlady that he was a sort of knight errant;
he was seeking a flat for a lady friend. As Mrs.
Parsley, dusting my room, told me of the upshot, I
had an amusing vision of the young man’s astonish-
ment at her misinterpretation of his words.
“And yet,” said Mrs. Parsley, somewhat regret-
fully, “I don’t know that I might not have been too
hasty. Even Mr. Slompack was a night errand once ;
and I’m sure that nobody can’t say that he isn’t
respectable.”
“Mr. Slompack!” I exclaimed.
Mrs. Parsley needed no more than that sign of
my interest. The dusting was definitely abandoned.
“In this very residential! ” she said. “It was very
terrible. There was Mr. Slompack going on like that,
being a night errand, as he said himself ; and there
was Mr. Whaley, when he was very drunk, talking
about putting a bullet through people. Though I’m
sure that whatever Mr. Slompack felt for Mrs. Whaley
was no more than a platinum affectation, as they
call it.
“The first I knew of it all was when Mr. Slom-
pack said that Mr. Whaley was an uncorrugated cad.
“ ‘Look at the*way he goes out, night after night,
leaving that poor sick woman all alone,’ says Mr.
Slompack. ‘And the way he comes home! Fancy
coming home like that to a woman just out of hos-
pital.’
“As a matter of fact I had heard Mr. Whaley
coming home singing his Hossanahs and other drunken
songs, and it seemed hardly the right thing. But I
thought perhaps he had rather a hard time, waiting
on a sick woman, as he did wait upon her, and he
may have had a right to have a holiday, even if he
did like to take it in liquid form.
“ ‘But, Mr. Slompack,’ I says, ‘Mrs. Whaley her-
self says he does a lot for her, and she likes him to
get out and enjoy himself.’
“ ‘That’s her noble disposition,’ says Mr. Slom-
pack ; ‘she won’t complain. And —I couldn’t help
hearing it —I’ve heard him abusing her, telling her she
makes too much of her illness. It’s disgusting.’
“Y7OU see, Mr. Slompack had been at the front
* door when Mrs. Whaley arrived ; I suppose that
gave him a right to have a special interest in her.
He had helped her husband get her out of the taxi
and up the stairs. A person would have to have a
heart of stones not to pity her, the way she looked ;
I asked her to rest in my flat before she went up the
next stairs.
“ ‘You are all so good,’ she says, smiling weakly.
‘You know if you don’t try to be strong you’ll never
get strong after an operation.’
“She used to get about like that, feeling her way
along the wall and getting people to help her up the
stairs or out in the street. Even the people in the
shops used to ask ‘How’s the patient getting on?’
Everybody was interested in her.
“From what she told me, she had had an in-
fernal tumult, and she had had to have an abomin-
able operation to get rid of it. Her ‘op.,’ she used to
call it, as if it was a pet of hers ; and she certainly
did talk a lot about it; but you could hardly blame
her when she’d been two hours on the table under an
antiseptic, as she said she had. And as she went on
not getting better, she said she was afraid there might
be implications, and she would have to have another
op. Very brave she seemed
about it, and everyone was
glad to help her.
“ ‘She’s a plucky little
woman,’ says Mr. Wassail
one night, after he had
assisted her up the stairs,
i And next day Mrs. Wassail,
’ who used to be a red-haired
barmaid before she got
married and became a plati-
tude blonde, was saying
how she would have to go
and see a doctor about her
inside.
“IT was a case of it nevet
* rains but the whole
world follows. I never
thought when I let a flat to
them Whaleys that my establishment was going to
become a sort of ’orspital, or, at any rate, one of them
convulsive homes.
“Miss Perry started telling us all about her weak
heart, but that little old-age pensioner who used to
live here at that time, Mrs. de Roebuck, who had
No. 12A, and always said on pension days that she
was off to see her bankers —she went one better than
that. She went off to see a doctor — her doctor, she
called him. It was them very coarse veins she had,
poor old soul, which I always thought was strange,
seeing how refined she was; but she came back
almost as joyful if she’d won the lottery, and said she
might have to have an operation.
“ ‘lt wouldn’t surprise me at all,’ she says.
‘Operations are, as you might say, heredity with our
family. My great-grandfather lost his leg at the battle
of Waterloo.’
“Then it was Mrs. Tibbitts, who looked as strong
as Mrs. Wassail really.
“ ‘There’s something radically wrong with me,’
she said with that air of painted resignation they talk
about in books; ‘l’m afraid I am not long for this
world.’
“ ‘God bless my soul,’ said Mr. Tibbitts—he was
always God-blessing his soul, but it didn’t do him
much good, because I had more rows with him over
the threepence extra for hot baths than with any other
tenant —‘if you feel like that, you’d better see another
doctor. Not that it will do much good. You’ll only
call him a quack if he doesn’t admit that you’re dying.’
“ ‘lsn’t that like a man, Mrs. Parsley?’ she
acclaims. ‘Naturally a man doesn’t understand what
a woman suffers. He’s too mean to let me see the
best especialist in Sydney, which is what I need for a
complaint like mine.’
“‘Doctors!’ she says contemptibly. ‘What do
those quacks know about it! It would take a really
first-class especialist to find out what is wrong with
me. Tom will be sorry when I’m gone—as I know
soon I will be. My photograph fell off the mantel-
piece the other day; everybody knows that means
death ; and there was a howling dog last night! ’
“Too well I know that a howling dog is a very
bad sign, but no doubt them doctors didn’t regard it
as a syphon of any disease.
“‘That Mrs. Tibbitts!’ says Major Sudds, who
was a convicted bachelor and didn’t like women,
whisky being his hobby. ‘She thinks that what she
sees in the tea-leaves in her cups, or if she dreams
of a wedding, are signs a doctor should consider. What
would she say to a floating kidney? I wonder what
any of them would say to a floating kidney?”
“You see, the Major (which was a sergeant-major
in the army before he retired, when he dropped the
sergeant) had become proud of his floating kidney.
4 4 Y7ES ; the men were in it, too. Even Mr. Slom-
I pack. I’d never heard that he had had an opera-
tion till Mrs. Whaley came ; but I suppose it was
that that made him so symphonic. It got that way
that I was almost glad when I scalded myself by up-
setting a kettle of water over my arm and I could be
a bit of a convulsion myself.
“Everybody recognised, though, that Mrs. Whaley
was the real invalid. She used to smile in a quiet,
weak way when the other people talked of their aching
DRAWING BY ARIA.
pains. None of them had had an infernal tumult
cut out of them.
“ ‘lf that brute leaves her alone again to-night,’
says Mr. Slompack, ‘l’m going to take her to a pic-
ture show. Something to lift her out of herself; and
if she cannot stand the strain of seeing the show out
we can come home.’
“Take her to the pictures he did, helping her
down to a taxi as if she was wrapped in wool, as the
saying goes ; and that was only the beginning. Mrs.
Whaley managed to stand it all right; but she had
to be helped up the stairs most gentle ; and after-
wards she was ready for more. When the other
people weren’t talking about their aching pains, they
was talking about Mr. Slompack and Mrs. Whaley.
“When I gave Mr. Slompack a hint about it, he
said I could tell them gossiping people that Honey
swore, whatever he meant by that; although it is a
common phrase, as I’ve noticed. What he did was
purely platinum; and if he liked to be a night
errand it was his business, not theirs. Quite un-
ashamed he was, though personally, in spite of him
talking, I don’t think he went as far as that.
course that Mr. Whaley heard about it. That
was probably why he came home one night
early. When I heard the rumpus in Number 12,
which was the Whaleys’, I went up to see.what I could
do, but the door was shut, and when I heard Mr.
Slompack telling Mr. Whaley off there didn’t seem any
need to interfere.
“ ‘Me neglect my wife! ’ Whaley said. ‘She makes
me wait on her hand aftd footstools. I’ve got to be
chief cook and bottlewasher; and because I get away
from it sometimes’
“ ‘You ought to be ashamed of yourself,’ says Mr.
Slompack’s voice.
“ ‘Huh! ’ says Whaley. ‘She only imagines she’s
sick. She thinks it interesting to be an invalid.’
“ ‘You cad! ’ says Mr. Slompack.
“‘Cad, am I?’ yells Mr. Whaley. ‘l’ll tell you
all about her operation.’
“Mrs. Whaley screamed and became historical;
and that finished the rumpus, for I will say that that
Whaley seemed as concerned as any of us in bringing
her round again. But after that the atmosphere of
the place became trifling, as they say in the books.
Mr. Slompack and Mr. Whaley was at daggers drawn,
breathing brimstone-and-treacle at one another when-
ever they met. And when Mr. Whaley, when he
came home very drunk, talked about putting bullets
through people, there was no doubt about who he
meant.
“ ‘lf that cad likes to divorce her,’ says Mr. Slom-
pack, ‘let him! She’d probably be better off without
the drunken swine. And she’ll be looked after! ’
“What with all the talk about bullets and divorce
my head was all in a world. I couldn’t ask an old
tenant like Mr. Slompack to go even if he was a night
errand, which I didn’t believe he was really ; he was
only perspired by a wish to help a sick woman. And
what would people have thought of me if I’d asked
an invalid like Mrs. Whaley to go? It worried me,
though, to think I might wake up some morning to
find a dead corpse or a divorce.
“And then that Miss Price, who had taken Number
17, collapsed in the hall and we had to carry her up
to her room and call a doctor.
“ ‘CTHE’S been working too soon after her opera-
tion. It’s been too much for her,’ says the
doctor.
“Of course we all knew that Miss Price had had
an operation just before she came to Number 17 ;
but there was so many talking about operations and
being sick since the place had become like a con-
vulsive home that nobody thought much about it;
it seemed merely another one. And not like Mrs.
Whaley’s infernal tumult, especially as Miss Price
used to laugh about it. She had her living to make,
she said, and she couldn’t be worried about a little op.
“It surprised us when the doctor says that she
had had a very serious operation, and she had given
an invite to trouble by behaving like a busy bee which
toils not neither does it spin. He said she would have
to lie up for some time ; she might have to go back
to hospital.
“We were all sorry for poor Miss Price, her being
so jolly and energetic, what we saw of her. Except
Mrs. Whaley, which was strange, seeing that, having
had an op. herself, she should have been symphonic,
as they say. But she seemed quite annoyed.
“ ‘That doctor can’t know what he’s talking about,’
she says. ‘lf that girl had had a really serious opera-
tion she couldn’t have got about in the way she did.
o Continued on page 7.)


Look at me. I was as energetic as anyone ; that’s
wfiat makes it more hard ; but I can hardly crawl
about. It’s terrible! If she’d had an operation like
mine she’d have something to talk about.’
“She’d been so long a centre of interest that she
seemed to think the fuss that everybody made about
Miss Price was an insult to her infernal tumult and
the implications. She became quite offended even
with Mr. Slompack when he took an interest in Miss
Price.
She s probably only putting it on,’ she says.
‘She’s jealous of me.’
The doctor didn’t think that, though, for after
a couple of days he said he would have to insult one
of them especialists, though what good that would
do I could not imagine. The next time he came there
was another doctor with him. The upshot was that
poor Miss Price had to go back to hospital, though
the especialist thought she should pull through.
“ ] T so happened that as that Doctor Killum, which
was the especialist the other doctor had insulted
and brought with him, was coming down Mr. Slom-
pack was helping Mrs. Whaley up the stairs.
Why, I seem to know this lady!’ said Doctor
Killum. ‘Yes, of course! Mrs. Whaley, isn’t it?’
Yes, doctor. You performed my op.,’ says
Mrs. Whaley, faintly it seemed to me.
So I did,’ he says. ‘Just a little tumult, wasn’t
it? You were lucky, my dear lady! If you had had
an operation such as the poor young woman upstairs
had—well, it was something to undergo, I can assure
you! And, let me see —how long ago was your opera-
tion? Seven years it must be.’
“Mr. Slompack was just staring at Mrs. Whaley
as he listened. Then he walked away.
“Of all the nine days’ blunders, that certainly was
one! And another was the way that Mrs. Whaley
went on directly the doctor had gone. She said she
had been insulted, and she wasn’t going to stay for a
minute where that had happened. And before
Whaley came home, which she had telephoned
him straight away, she had started packing, tossing
things about as if she’d never pretended to
be a sick woman. She left the rest to Whaley, when
he arrived, and went out. And glad I was after-
wards she was gone and the place ceased to be a
convulsive home.
“ ‘Give my compliments to Mr. Slompack,’ says
Whaley, grinning, as he was leaving. ‘I was nearly
telling him that that wife of mine was a fraud, but
he shut me up. Tell Mr. Slompack from me
that that doctor made a mistake. It’s nine years
my wife has been deposing as an invalid on the
strength of her op., apd I’ve had to endure it for the
sake of peace.’
“Only the last time I went to the pictures,” said
Mrs. Parsley, preparing to resume her dusting, “I saw
that Mrs. Whaley being helped into the theatre by a
gentleman who wasn’t Mr. Whaley, as tenderly as if
she might break. Aperiently she still talks about that
infernal tumult; and she’s found another night
errand.”
Brief Sketch
Waitinq-room
By Don Edwards
WHEN she heard the
footsteps sounding
sharply on the frost-
cold air, Phyllis leant
forward eagerly and stared
through the windscreen at
the area of light that the
street lamp splashed on the
black pavement. As the foot-
steps came closer, she turned
to the man beside her and
asked: “What if he sees us here, Frank?”
“Well, what of it?” he replied. “As well get it
over now as a few minutes later.”
She drew back, as if suddenly afraid.
“You haven’t changed your mind, have you?” he
asked.
“No. No. Of course not,” she said hurriedly.
Then a dim form slowly assumed distinct out-
lines under the street light, and she knew why she
had only heard the footsteps of a single person, for
the man was carrying a small boy in his arms. The
boy was fast asleep, his arms and legs swinging
loosely to the steps of the man who carried him.
Under the light the man stopped, and she saw
him carefully pull a scarf around the boy’s neck. He
stepped forward again, and disappeared through the
entrance of the railway station. His disappearance
seemed to leave her life as empty as the quiet, cold
street. That was the way it had been since she had
told him how things were with herself and Frank,
and he had turned on her after those few, long
minutes of silence, and said quietly: “All right,
Phyllis. I’ll take Bruce out, and I expect you to have
gone when we return.”
This was the first time she had seen Bruce since
that night, and now he had gone. She had thought
that when she saw him again she would rush to him,
and tear him away from her husband and hold him
close to her ; but now she felt strangely incapable of
doing what she had set out to do.
It had all seemed easy in the anticipation of it.
Then the only things that seemed to matter were her-
self, and her son, and her happiness that depended
so much on him. Now her husband entered into it,
too, and she imagined herself standing before him
and saying those few words that she had framed so
carefully. It wasn’t going to be so easy.
“Hadn’t you better go now?” she heard Frank
saying beside her.
She glanced at her watch quickly, and saw that
the time was twenty minutes to twelve.
“Yes,” she said, “I won’t long.”
“The train goes in twenty minutes,” he said, “you
can’t be longer than that.”
| N the colder air of the street she felt nervous and
afraid. Just past the station entrance, inside the
large, bare room leading to the platform, she paused
to muster up her courage. The platform was deserted.
Slowly she walked through the door and towards the
black board that showed the word “Waiting Room”
in white letters.
As she approached the door of the waiting-room
she walked more slowly. Her thoughts had run
ahead to the meeting with her husband, and she
stopped just outside the
brown doors. Suddenly
she realised how much she
had hurt her husband
already, and how much
more she would have to
hurt him. Still, there was
only one course open to
her. She owed it to her
own happiness, and to
Bruce, and to Frank. The
crisp air, sharply cold
with the frost, stirred
slightly about her. She shivered. Grasping
the doorknob she pushed the door open and
stepped quickly into the waiting-room.
The only occupants of the room were her
husband and son. Her first glance was towards
Bruce. He was lying on a seat, asleep. The seat had
been dragged close to the fire that crackled in the grate.
He looked pathetically small and helpless, a tiny figure
wrapped in a rug, with his fair head just emerging
from its folds. Her husband was seated on a chair
near him, with his back turned towards her. At ihe
sound of the door opening he swung about, and
stared at her in surprise. He turned away from her,
and put out his hand in a protective gesture, to let
it rest lightly on her son.
Still she stood there, but he ignored her. Well,
Bruce was asleep, so that would make things a bit
easier. She would wait for a few minutes to collect
her thoughts and frame the words she was going to
say to her husband. His attitude towards her had dis-
concerted her, and caused her to alter her plans. If
only he had jumped up and shown anger and asked
her what she wanted she could have got it over. But
he had merely stared at her and turned away ; and
she couldn’t force herself to walk round in front of
him. 0
She walked across to a chair and sat down. A
glance at her watch showed her that the time was
almost ten minutes to twelve. She would have to
do something soon or other people might come into
the room. What was it she had to say? The ex-
citement, the suspense, seemed to have driven the
words out of her memory. Soon they flashed back
into her mind, striking her with their harsh cruelty.
She sat there thinking of the consequences to him.
But what about herself? She had to consider herself.
She couldn’t help it if she didn’t love him, if she
loved Frank. How was she to know when she mar-
ried him that things would turn out this way?
If only she hated him, if only he had hurt her
in any way, it would be easier. She watched him
move over to Bruce and gently rearrange the rug
where it had slipped off him. Every action showed
his affection for the boy.
The sound of voices came to her from the plat-
form, and caused her to look at the time again. She
had only about five minutes left. She must speak to
him now.
“Norman,” she said, then stopped, surprised at
the sudden strangeness of her own voice.
He turned quickly, and she was so disconcerted
by his questioning stare that she merely said, “You
are going to-night.”
“Yes,” he replied, but he turned from her before
she had time to speak, and she found herself once
more gazing at his back.
The noises on the platform increased. She could
hear trolleys trundling along and goods being shifted.
The harsh screech of the approaching engine suddenly
burst into the room. “Now, now,” she thought. She
stood up. Her husband was shaking the boy. He
sat up, sleepily rubbing his eyes with two small fists.
“Come on, son,” she heard Norman say.
The boy turned and saw her. “Mummy,” he said.
She forgot everything but her son ; and running
to him she pressed him to her, and kissed him over
and over again.
“Kiss your mother good-bye, Bruce, and come
on,” she heard Norman saying. Then with the memory
of the boy’s kiss on her lips and his murmured
“Good-bye, mummy,” in her ears ; she stood there
as if dazed, and watched them hurry out of the wait-
ing-room.
He had gone, Bruce had gone, but only on to
the platform. She must find her husband at once
and speak to him, or it would be too late. Panting
with excitement, she ran out on to the platform
into a confusion of noise and hurrying people. In a
panic she darted along it till she came to the end of
the train. There was no sign of them. Turning, she
ran back towards the engine, with her thoughts re-
peating: “I must find them. I must speak.”
Suddenly she saw them, and she stood still, star-
ing into the compartment. Bruce was standing on the
seat, looking out of the window, and her husband was
holding him. His arm was about the boy’s shoulders,
and their heads were close together.
The strange feeling of indecision that she had ex-
perienced in the waiting-room came over her at the
sight of them, and she stepped back into the dark-
ness. Grasping the back of a seat she stood there,
staring longingly at her son’s face pressed against the
glass of the window as, with bursts of steam, the
engine noisily dragged the carriages off into the dark-
ness.
Q LOWLY she left the station. At the entrance Frank
v —' was waiting for her. She saw his surprise. She
knew that he would be annoyed, but she was con-
cerned only with her own feeling of hopeless loneli-
ness. She waited for him to speak.
“Well,” he asked, “where is Bruce?”
“He has gone,” she said, slowly, in a low voice.
Tears came suddenly to her eyes, and she burst
out passionately against his censuring silence: “I let
him go, but I just couldn’t stand there before Norman
and tell him that Bruce wasn’t his son.”


BRANDALERrS
m
%
4*
PENS
r Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDAUBR * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. GKO
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO YEARS’
FREE SETTING
dg
df
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. A 1 1
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle .... 15/6
Suj>erfine steel, ivory handle 217-
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, to fit I and \ blades, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney
THE
lIN ITEII insurance
U 111 I Eli COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The United is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
many died. The captain had no orders to bury his
dead ; the canvas packages mounted up on D deck
till the whole ship stank and the crew reached the
verge of mutiny.
At Alexandria the port was full; plague had
broken out; the AlO was refused entry. The order
came to proceed to port of registry and to bury the
dead. The book ends when the ship docks. Wives
and mothers are waiting for the crew. The men go
ashore and all that they have experienced dwindles
to a few inarticulate words. They have nothing to tell.
This is a mass novel; it is about men bound
together by common necessity and common danger
between war and the deep sea. The life of the ship
from the bridge to the forecastle is kept continuously
and vividly alive. Here and there men are singled
out, but they are only focal points ; the book belongs
to none of them. There is Dunford, the commander,
whose mind is being undermined by what he con-
siders childish official secrecy and his own impotence,
under heavy orders, to cope with emergencies as they
arise. He sees madness elsewhere. “It was hard to be
a man. Harder to be a human being.”
There are his officers, the unspeakable First, who
is killed ; Deveney, who cannot see beyond his own
illness, and in a moment of crisis is “overwhelmed
only by his overcoat” ; an overwrought but plucky
junior ; Walters, the chief steward, whose ambition
is to buy himself a pub and who doesn’t mind how
he gets the money; Higginbotham, the lookout man,
who sees the whole world of the ship from the crow’s
nest; Marvell, who supped so full of horrors that he
hanged himself. Separately they are very human,
realistically and unsparingly drawn, but they unite
into what is essentially a picture of men in action.
The book sweeps from crisis to crisis. When a
submarine is sighted and the order comes on the
overcrowded transport to man the boats: “The age-
less aria of the sea was now hushed, gave way to the
fugue and chorale; the fugue was the secret rage
tracing its message upon the waters and the chorale
was flesh.” There is the disastrous disembarkation,
a night immense with fear and death. And the mass
burial of the dead at sea:
No man spoke, no man looked at his fellow though
their thoughts were as one, fettered to this hour. To
the sea burial. To the bundles passing from one dark-
ness to another darkness. To the bundles catapulting
towards the waters.
For an hour the seamen were unloading the dead,
and there was “a reverence in their roughness, a
gentleness in their strength. Not a word was uttered.
Their breathing rose and fell, waves of sound in the
stuffy air.’’
The greater part of this book is written in the
idiom of the forecastle and the gloryhole ; the descrip-
tions are brief, telegraphic; then, as they rise in
intensity, the prose frees itself into imagery, into
the poetry of liberated emotion.
Hanley writes of what he knows. At 16 he sailed
before the mast in a transport. Through 20 years
his memories of that experience have been mounting
up in his mind, and now he presents them with power,
speed and imagination.
Remembering Vienna.
The Graf Ferdinand von Sterzing had seven
daughters and one son, to whom, as a matter of
course, he sacrificed them all. The girls grew up as
stiff as lilies, ringed about by the tradition of their
class, their wealth and their father’s autocratic temper.
They were led along the path of decorum by their
English governess, Miss Ring.
Then came the war, driving Miss Ring back to
an England she scarcely knew, draining Vienna of its
lifeblood and bringing to ruin the whole world of the
Von Sterzings.
Miss Ring, with no accomplishments but the
German language and gentility, trod a thorny path
in war-time London. She was befriended by a
neurotic boy who deserted from the army and took a
large slice of her small savings. She became in suc-
cession secretary to a doctor who was killed in an
air raid, boarding-house keeper, charwoman, lavatory
attendant.
In Vienna the other half of her life was founder-
ing, too. Lisa became her father’s patient drudge,
Anna a governess, Hildegarde a nurse, Trudi went
mad, Erna flourished as a fashionable harlot, Wera
had a cough, Josef developed into the perfect para-
site, and only the seventh sister, Nadine, escaped to
safe and happy marriage with a red-headed English-
man, Charles Crendon. It is Nadine who finds and
rescues Miss Ring and salvages all her sisters except
Trudi, who dies. And so the “sad story ends happily
after all in the peace of an English garden.”
Such is the substance of The Seventh Sister (Cape),
by Freda Lingstrom. It is deeply entrenched in the.
romantic tradition; it lacks passion, though it has
genuine tenderness and pathos. Setting and attack
are a little hackneyed, but the characters are natural
and the whole book carefully and delicately written.
It is a novel of fashionable cut. Lovely, sad Vienna
has been a godsend to novelists of this kidney for
some time,’ and Miss Lingstrom lends to her setting a
tristful bloom:
The familiar streets seemed to her to resemble the
face of a friend ravaged by illness yet distressfully
recognisable. The city, once the loveliest in Europe, was
falling into decay. The Ring and Karntnerstrasse still
kept their beauty, but outside the square mile or so
which was the centre of the town cracks were appear-
ing in the buildings. There was even grass growing
between the stones of the museum courtyard; some had
actually found its way into the streets. The green
blades were in themselves significant of the dilapidation
of the place. The very tramlines stuck up out of the
sunken road like bare bones pricking through a
shrivelled skin.
That is the vein. Only in her strong but subdued
feminism does a touch of the Old Eve escape the
author’s- careful guard. The bullying old Graf, the
despicable Josef and the rubbishy Bernard are all a
warning to women. Charles, Nadine’s husband, is an
amiable fellow, but then he is not allowed to be any-
thing but Nadine’s husband.
Grannie’s Philosophy.
The moral, or perhaps the author would like it
called the philosophy, of Hilton Brown’s That State
of Life (Geoffrey Bles) is that everyone should stay
put. The mixing of classes in love, matrimony or
ideas does not work, and he proves it by systematically
wrecking each of his characters as he or she tries it.
Robin Ritchie, a prosperous but gloomy doctor,
marries for the second time ; she is a handsome girl
from the lower middle-class. Noelle, called Ducks in
the family circle, takes a cosy view of life—high tea,
red wallpaper, unlimited refinement—and has deep
hankerings after “nice things,” such as pink marble
bathrooms and fur coats.
Robin’s two children, Audrey and Graham, detest
her and make her life as miserable as possible in a
polite way. She endures it for 10 years, till —feeling
like Irene Forsyte—she meets the man of her heart,
a dance-band leader, and escapes back with him to
the very suburb from which she had hoisted herself.
The divorce provides unexpected difficulties, because
Noelle is far too nice to commit adultery and lives
chastely with her Christopher’s sister until such time
as she is free to marry him. The difficulties are over-
come, and she finds happiness at last.
Meanwhile the son, Graham, has an affair with
a lady far outside the orbit of his respectability, but
is politely though firmly shown the door by her lover.
This decides him to give up writing for the films and
settle down as his father’s partner. Audrey, too, has
burnt her fingers picking up a young man, named
Lionel Peach, from a lending library. He turns out a
coward and a cad, deficient even in the true-born Eng-
lishman’s love of animals. (He refuses to risk his life
for a Scotch terrier and lets Audrey do it instead.)
Audrey emerges from this experience somewhat
ennobled and now competent to sympathise with her
father. Rene, a cousin, toys with ideas unbefitting a
gentleman—but he is half-French. He enlists with the
International Brigade in Spain, where he finds dis-
illusion and a needless death, due to somebody’s
blunder. With a few sideshows, that is the gist of
the book.
If its philosophy, or moral, adds up to nothing,
its manner, which is light, bright and witty, does a
good deal to compensate. The multiple action speeds
along and all the characters are lifelike —and most of
them disagreeable—from Grannie to the eternally
adolescent Graham. Easily the most attractive person
in the book is Mackay, the Scotch- terrier. The clash
between Noelle and Grannie is very neatly stated:
When she felt impelled to do good, as a corrective
to too much happiness, or merely as reviver, Noelle made
for Treherne Gardens. Carrying her mood before her,
as obvious as a ton of coals, she would invade that cold
citadel of self-reliance. Too big for Grannie’s room,
quite painfully the District Visitor, she would sit there
eating Grannie’s scones and making polite conversation
for the regulation 90 minutes. From time to time she
• conscientiously called Grannie “Mother,” and every time
she did it Grannie would spark and crackle with fury
like an agitated dynamo, and her loosening upper plate
would rasp to and fro upon the lower until you could
almost hear it. But not quite, because Grannie never
gave herself away. She poured the tea, passed the scones,
made polite conversation, and endured.
That State of Life is laid out to pattern like an
old-fashioned flower-bed. Grannie visiting the ceme-
tery, and reflecting on her children in that suitable
atmosphere, opens and closes the book. Grannie
stands for the old order. The rest may break away
from it, but are brought back.
High and Low Finance.
The Serpent and the Dove, by Norman Denny
(John Lane), is a good-natured book, and all the
characters, even the serpent, are made attractive by
their abundant human nature. The theme is finance
—and not as arid as it sounds.
Anthony Brent and James Bannister met in a
coffee-stall one cold and misty night, each spending
his last shilling on what looked as if it were going
*° u u They adjourned afterwards to ( a
park bench, and later, quite spontaneously and
naturally, indulged in a little highway robbery. Brent
helped himself to a few cigarettes and returned the
case ; Bannister took a bulging wallet.
Bannister was a South American company pro-
moter down on his luck. He had been in gaol and
was finding it hard to make a new beginning from
scratch. Anthony was the standard English gentle-
man who, until caught by bankruptcy, had followed
the almost Chinese ritual of his class.
A gentleman! The finest, fullest achievement of
civilisation in other words, the furthest step away
liom nature. But apart from that,” said Mr. Bannister,
consider the practical value of being a gentleman if
you have the wits and ability to make use of your advan-
tage. That’s the trouble, of course: as a rule a gentle-
manly upbringing doesn’t tend to develop that sort
ol wits and ability. And I suppose you may argue that
a gentleman who seeks to profit by being a gentleman
is no gentleman. Which makes it all very difficult."
These two formed a friendship with dire need
as its cement. The plundered wallet —containing £l7
and some incriminating papers which enabled Ban-
nister to bring oft' a spot of blackmail —and Anthony’s
gentlemanliness were its assets. Anthony was kept
in the dark. His natural honesty became the core
of Bannister’s highly dishonest schemes.
A company was formed out of thin air, confi-
dence spun out of talk, and soon the company became
a real company with assets and everything above-
board —that is to say, legal. It is like the Indian
rope trick, but it is all quite credible, and there is
some shrewd satire on the side. The concern gets
bigger and bigger, absorbing batteries, cosmetics and
building schemes. It has as many twists as a python,
and Anthony, arrayed in the old school tie, remains
a dove in its toils.
The end is happy. No one is any the worse for
it all; in fact, everyone has got something, even the
gentleman who was robbed of his wallet—and it has
all evolved out of nothing but the shrewd manipula-
tion of the financial machine.
The deftest touch of all is when Anthony’s
mother-in-law, Mrs. Church, proves the best business-
man of them all, and by means of an elegant little
piece of blackmail lands Anthony and her daughter
safely upon their proper level in a country cottage
with a job for Anthony as secretary to a golf club
at £4OO a year.
There is more in The Serpent and the Dove than
at first meets the eye. The satire is very effective
without becoming either sententious or ill-tempered
It is ingeniously worked out.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
A utobiography of a Cad: A. G. Macdonell (Mac-
millan). The bounder of considerable means exploited
for his humorous possibilities. The character is made
clear in the first incident or two, and the rest is a
tedious ringing of obvious changes.
Reivers’ Road : Richard Fisher (Cobden-Sander-
son). After the accession of Scottish James to Eng-
land’s throne, the border raids, which had suited the
policy of both countries, became an annoyance ; but
the borderers, who cared almost nothing for the poli-
cies of London and Edinburgh, kept on bogging into
each other until they were restrained by force. Fisher
uses this scrap of historic turbulence as the back-
ground for a story of love and valor. He makes a
good job of it.
Joshua Slade: E. H. W. Meyerstein (Richards).
The leading character, with the hands of the woman
he won resting on his shoulders, writes the story of
how a queen’s spook guided him through certain
London and county adventures.
The Running of the Deer: Dan Wickenden
(Dent). American family life—in which youth loses
some illusions, father loses his job but finds adventure,
and others have experiences calculated to sustain the
interest. A good medium-weight.
Within Four Walls: Florence A. Kilpatrick
(Harrap). Human oddities in an old town house that
has been converted into flats. Mystery, comedy,
tragedy—and romance.
Verse . . .
So They Played Together: Gordon Hirst.
Between the foreword that says “illustrations by the
author, who can’t, draw for nuts,” and the tailpiece
lurking under a duck, seagull or giraffe, that says
that Johnstone and Davie, of Goulburn, printed it
for Canon Hirst, are about 30 charming verses for
youngsters. Australian birds and animals for subject-
matter, and the style humorous:
In a rather mixed fowlrun a very wise duck,
The last of her kind, had survived by some luck.
Too old for the market, too tough for the pot,
She lived in contentment, well pleased with her lot.


1
XI
tt?V
s
o*B^
&s®
CO
s
otv®
**4
ia
AS
•A
n
nu
<»
TO
,/o.
K
A PINT OF DOUBLE
SHELL MOTOR OIL.
PLEASE / "
BIG USERS
as well as
SMALL USERS
& tr*~
ORDER THE
. a'
&
0
sr'-S*
ingfiiE
.-sr
ft *
"K-i
s«sr
'Vi"'*?:.-':;,
*8
&<u:ft&34sft4aAaa
One thousand tons-a quarter of a million gallons —is one of the largest single
orders placed during the last twelve months for Shell Motor Oil.
When you order the drag-free oil for your car, your judgment is backed by
that of men who think on the biggest scale.
Cut out drag. Oil drag has a “clinging” effect, makes all moving parts sluggish,
especially when starting. Cut it out by using Shell Oil-and your engine per-
forms as it cannot perform with an ordinary oil: you cut down wear: you spend
less on oil and petrol: you cut out sludge and you cut out carbon.
MOTOR
“So—when yon change to Summer Oil, say ‘SHELL’!”
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated in Great Britain)
L.0.38/21 .JX


V n—_ / o .
T+Jf UOUSt
Of S£PP£ LT
'
m
mm
"if «®S
■,'ivmm
y ' ’
nm
■**
;
HP
SIIS
'
• •>•*
&
l*
a
; 111
nan i
mmm
m
WO
i
O cW
fe,v
W
0«'
m* 1 "
IV
x 0 WQo
SJLe
Western
I
*
r
Mo „
G« AI
pwwpft
ozs
NET 1
°NS Ltd
PT
6 FL
m
lyi
■
■
in
Sjr
■1
. .
• \
■
.. .•
mwmmm
1 1 ; M
m ... l
• i
■hi ■■ Bn
SI
mm
.
~
Great Western
R/mperiaL
THE CHAMPAGNE
OF AUSTRALIA '


TOO ROUGH ON MARS.
“Another war-scare and no war. Any more duds from you and I’ll turn pacifist.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd..
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings. 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street. London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America. 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4a.
AN AMERICAN ON AUSTRALIA.
Mr. C. Hartley Grattan, whose sojourn in Australia
as a Carnegie research scholar is about to close, has
been favoring it with a few more instalments of his
views.
Fourteen months ago, having then been in the
country quite six months, Mr. C. Hartley Grattan
reported that the methods of our farmers were “anti-
quated,” and that they were “doomed, unless they
come into line with world affairs.” The nation itself,
though “under the placid surface of Australian life”
there were indications of “a smouldering fire, which
must sooner or later find open expression,” wasn’t
“facing things vitally ; there is a marked absence of
controversy with the gloves off.”
Mr. C. Hartley Grattan prescribed a pink pill
for this pallid population—Left-wing social democ-
racy. At elections held during the subsequent six
months, in the Commonwealth itself and in the States
of South Australia, Victoria, Queensland and N. S.
Wales, the prescription was rejected. In Mr. C. Hartley
Grattan’s own country Left-wing social democracy
has since March, 1933, been administered from
the Roosevelt bottle in ever-increasing doses.
Among the effects thus far noticed are a doubled
national debt, another depression and 12,000,000
unemployed.
But Mr. C. Hartley Grattan is not discouraged,
though on some points he chooses to be vague. In
America, he tells us, “it is proposed to alter the
system in such a fashion as to give work to all.” In
Australia, “a shift in the fundamental conditions
will transform the whole position” and “set in train
a new period of world-wide expansion” ; and “in that
shift lies Australia’s real future.”
I say that the fact that the birthrate is declining
is implicit warning of the acute need for change. But
the change is one to which most people are blind
and many others are absurdly hostile. It is the root
political issue of the present day.
What is the “remedy” this time? Left-wing
social democracy, with some other name blown on
the bottle? Very likely ; but Mr. C. Hartley Grattan
is here —perhaps delightfully—vague. The dark.trans-
lation of the theme he leaves to other hands. He is
explicit enough, however, in condemning what he calls
the Australian “scheme of development, carried for-
ward for forty years according to the principles of
capitalism.... increasingly in favor of the owning-
producer.”
The broad social policy of all political parties has
been to facilitate the progress of the owning-producer,
whether he be a man on the land or the owner of fac-
tories This country is as hag-ridden by the outlook
of the owning-producers as ever my country has been.
The time has come to call a halt if the task of building
a civilised community is to be resumed.
Then the process of civilising this community has
been arrested. Adversity is a good test of whether
or not a people is civilised, and the Australian people
answered it pretty well when nearly a third of them
were out of work. At least, that is Mr. Hughes’s
opinion, nor does Mr. Hughes agree that everything
is done for, and nothing much done by, the “owning-
producer”:—
I was never so proud of my people as I was when
they faced the depression. They faced reductions in
wages and other conditions that would have over-
whelmed a less virile race. We have made progress, but
only through our people. This is not a country only
for one class; it is a country good for all classes and
conditions of men. That is its salvation.
The manners and bearing of working men are a
good criterion of the condition of a country. Major
yan der Byl, M.P., the leader of the South African
delegation to the Commonwealth Relations Confer-
ence, has given this unsolicited testimony:
We have been impressed with the courtesy of the
Australian workman. They have gone out of their
way to make us feel we are wanted. The Australian
workman certainly has a way with him. He does not
scrape your boots, so to speak. He has admirable
qualities of independence, we have found. In his rela-
tions with the visitor he is helpful, intelligent and
respectful.
Of course, some people despise this spirit; even
some Australians. One, Mr. Bridges, found it so
galling to his pride or something that he hied him
away to Mr. C. Hartley Grattan’s country, where he
has raised considerable dust. The chairman of a
House of Representatives committee has demanded
his immediate deportation on the ground that he is
a Communist and is known to have said “To hell
with the President of the United States!” Mr. Bridges
has found a champion in the Secretary of Labor,
“Madam” Perkins. Replying to the chairman of the
House of Representatives committee, “Madam” Per-
kins said she could not “accept your evaluation of
the evidence against Mr. Bridges”; and, bringing
Shirley Temple into the picture, “Madam” Perkins
denounced “your committee’s preposterous revelations
regarding this innocent and likeable child.” It sounds
rather like Mrs. Crummies defending the Infant
Phenomenon.
An “owning-producer” whose future is in doubt,
according to Mr. C. Hartley Grattan, is the Australian
woolgrower. Mr. C. Hartley Grattan is satisfied that
“a complete redefinition of the position of sheep’s wool
among the fibres of the world is about to be made.”
Australia must face the position now, explore its
ramifications and set a course which will enable it to
weather the shock with the absolute minimum of social
disorder. But as yet there is little evidence that it will
be done.
One reason may be that only a contortionist of
unusual skill could do “it.” However, Mr. C. Hartley
Grattan may be assured that, whatever happens, there
will be “the absolute minimum of social disorder,”
even if “the woolgrowers should by some terrible
mischance sign their own death-warrant and the Aus-
tralian nation suffer once more for the benefit of a
small class of owning-producers.” On that score
Mr. C. Hartley Grattan’s mind is clouded with doubt.
The only procedure which seems to offer any hope
for wool is the use of all the technological advances
being brought into the industry by individuals and the
C.S. and I.R. constantly to lower the price of wool so
that its technical merits shall be in a minimum danger
of being cancelled out by the price competition of arti-
ficial fibres.
“Constantly to lower the price of wool.” Truly,
words of ill omen for growers when the price of wool
is already rather a pull. Still, the industry may be
able to get along. It has maintained itself for 120
years, and become pre-eminent in the world for
quality and quantity, without having to seek the advice
of American literary gents.
Another Boss from Britain?
“The R.A.A.F. undoubtedly would gain materially from
being placed under the direction, at least for a time, of a
senior British officer.”
— “S. M. Herald,” the Old Colonial Girl.
Sir Edward Ellington, Inspector-General of the
R.A.F., has reported on the R.A.A.F., and the report
has been adopted by the Lyons Government. Report,
acceptance and a running commentary by the Prime
Minister were published on the same day. An odd
departure from precedent for which reasons should
be demanded when Parliament meets, though they are
not likely to be given. It seems that the Govern-
ment contemplates a “reconstruction” that would bring
the R.A.A.F. into line with the C.M.F. by the placing
of “a suitable Englishman” in command. That would
mean a brisk controversy, and Mr. Lyons would rather
handle it himself than leave it to his Minister of
Defence.
When the last official census of the R.A.A.F. was
issued, it consisted of 96 machines. Some, since then,
have fallen out of the air, killing or seriously injuring
the crews. The latest and biggest were the Avro-
Anson dual-purpose machines, of which four out of
the first nine to take the air have crashed. Avro-
Ansons are regarded as a stopgap until British manu-
facturers can supply new two-engined bombers which
have double their cruising speed and four times their
fighting power. Next in line are Hawker Demons,
now sold to Portuguese and relegated by the R.A.F.
to India’s North-West Frontier.
Altogether, the force consists of eight squadrons
—one bomber, one Army co-operation, one Fleet co-
operation, two general reconnaissance and three
general-purpose. The general-purpose squadrons are
on a cadre basis with only a nucleus of regular officers,
the rest being culled from the Citizen Air Force. Com-
parison of official lists of personnel show that with two
extra squadrons added between February, 1937, and
May, 1938, the R.A.A.F. has not been able to find
anything like a full quota of a couple of dozen officers
for them. Nevertheless, the Government proposes to
build the force up to 198 machines, without any bar-
gain as to time of completion. New squadrons
and replacements were to be accounted for by adding
110 Wirraways, American-type NA33’s, to be built
by the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation.
But Sir Edward Ellington says that employment
of the Wirraway “should be regarded as a temporary
expedient.” “The maximum speed” of the Wirraway
“is not sufficient for a modern fighter; it can only be
regarded as an advanced training aircraft.” All this
has been said by Australians time and again, but Mr.
Parkhill knew better.
Of R.A.A.F. strength in general, Sir Edward
Ellington says:
On paper the striking power of the R.A.A.F. will
be somewhat weak, but as long as the Army co-operation
squadrons are equipped with a type which can be used
as bombers in an emergency, perhaps the want is more
apparent than real.
“Assuming the increase in strength is the
maximum which can be developed in the next three
years, having regard to the extensive ground organi-
sation to be provided and the personnel to be trained”
—a quotation from “the Prime Minister’s national
broadcast” —the Inspector-General “considers that the
proposed composition and distribution of the R.A.A.F.
is suitable to meet the requirements of Australian air
defence.”
It may be so ; but considering that any hostile
Power which could establish itself in New Guinea
would have bases frorn which the heart of northern
Australia could be attacked, as vital parts of England
could be attacked from Europe, Australians will take
leave to doubt it. In any case, what is reckoned suffi-
cient for us is puny compared with John Bull’s own
particular scheme.
By comparison with the Commonwealth’s 198
machines —when it gets them —Britain is developing
at least 27 types, ranging from 20-ton bombers,
faster than Wirraways, to Spitfires and Hurricanes,
which can go twice as fast as our best machines and
operate at double their maximum height with three
times their gun-power.
Britain has scrapped successive schemes of expan-
sion until now —in the words of the “United Services
Journal” —it is “building till the cows come home.”
In March, 1940, it will have at. least 2370 modern
machines in the first line, 490 of them booked for the
defence of Middle East and Far East territories of
small importance to the Empire compared with Aus-
tralia. As well, there will be 500 machines with the
Royal Navy and 3500 in reserve, 500 of these being
available for colonies. With one firm, Morris, an
order for 1000 Spitfires has been placed. According
to the War Minister, the anti-aircraft territorial forces
grew from under 7000 at the beginning of 1937 to
43,000 in June, 1938, when the Government decided
to double those numbers.
Australia has no visible anti-aircraft force. None
of its 198 machines to be provided by March, 1941,
would be reckoned fit for a place in anything except
the second line of the British reserve in 1940. As for
personnel, Sir Edward Ellington is “informed that the
shortage of pilots and other ranks will be made good
by the end of 1938,” but he doubts it. The British
effort envisages the employment of 200,000 men,
regulars and Territorials, in air services, and another
90,000 men in immediate and urgent aircraft-construc-
tion work.
On accidents in the R.A.A.F., Sir Edward Elling-
ton says that the rate is definitely worse than that of
the R.A.F. He mentions 12 accidents without giving
names; “three appear to be due to disobedience to
orders or bad flying discipline, and possibly a fourth
is due to the same cause.” If this theorising is correct
there must be something wrong at the top. Sir Edward
acknowledges that there is nothing wrong with the
quality of personnel in all branches of the service:
“appearance of R.A.A.F. officers and men, their turn-
out and drill, excellent; cadets, of the right class ;
quality of officers and men of the Citizen Air Force,
good; maintenance of aircraft, efficient.” But “all
service squadrons are below strength” —which means
overwork for those commissioned —“present training
of flying instructors is not altogether satisfactory, and
advanced training and air-navigation instruction
cannot be put on a proper basis until a new station
has been formed.” It all suggests that the fault lies
at Canberra’s door.
Sir Edward thinks it would be a mistake to operate
more civil air services than can be operated with
proper care, or to work routes before they are
equipped with the latest aids to safety. The history of
Australian aviation is a record of glorious mistakes in
that category. Before Imperial Airways began con-
necting European capitals with London Brearley’s
men and Qantas men were scattering the goats in
outback Australian townships which scarcely had a
garage, much less an aerodrome. From the efforts of
such men there have been developed airlines faster
and cheaper than those of Britain itself. This year
they are covering 21 routes and will travel upwards
of 10,000,000 flying miles. Australians in New Guinea
descended on an uninhabited coast, went into thick
scrub, a thousand miles from the nearest real town,
and, flying over jungle-covered mountains, built up the
world’s first and biggest heavy-freight service, all in
a couple of years. If Australian aviation had waited
for politicians to provide it with “facilities,” there
would be no services at all.
Anyway, civil aviation can make no mistake
which would be greater than the importation of a
British officer to command the R.A.A.F. Glorious as
is its history, the R.A.F. has no men with finer fight-
ing records than Macnamara, V.C., Cole, Goble,
Taylor and a dozen other Australians. It has been
reserved for the Australian Percival to revolutionise
British light aeroplanes in speed and design. One
of the principal commands in Britain has just gone
to a Maorilander, Air Vice-Marshal Maclean. The
Westralian Peter Drummond holds a high command
in the Middle East. Some of the picked men in the
crack flight which escorted the King to Paris were
R.A.A.F. men on exchange.
Australians have shown that they can fly and
fight; that they can organise and operate modern air
services ; that they could design and construct fighting
aircraft suitable for Australian conditions. And the
Royal Australian Air Force should be commanded
by an Australian.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mr. Chamberlain Goes Fishing.
And not in the Serpentine—in Scotland. But before
he boarded the train, fully equipped with rods and
flies and a change of shirts and handkerchiefs, another
Frightful Situation had arisen.
It had something to do with the Czechs and the
Sudeten Germans and, above all, Hitler. What it was
all about is no clearer than mud, but the “Cronk-
News” and the Manchester “Garbagetin” and the
Prague correspondent of the London “Daily Tele-
graph” and the Diplomatic Correspondents and
Special Representatives of Australian newspapers and
Mr. Winston Churchill and Madame Two Blues were
certain that “it was the Gravest European Crisis since
1914.” The British Ambassador at Berlin was flying to
London in response to an Urgent Summons and an
Emergency Cabinet Meeting had been arranged.
Meantime, the Chancellor of the Exchequer was to
make a speech Warning Germany.
How were the Germans taking it? Badly, of
course. The man in the street was “suffering from a
bad attack of nerves.” The press was a prey to
“exaggerated hysteria.” Tension Increased Enor-
mously.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer made his speech.
He said his Government recognised that there was “a
real problem in Czechoslovakia” ; that Lord Runci-
men had gone to that country “as a mediator and a
friend,” and that “we firmly believe that, if the right
spirit prevails, a peaceful settlement that will reconcile
all legitimate interests and claims will be obtained.”
There are great countries in Europe with systems of
government very different from the British system....
But that is no reason why foreign policy should be con-
ducted as if friendship were impossible.
Then Cabinet Prepares to Face Czech Crisis (Syd-
ney “D.T.”). After facing the crisis it issues a note:
The Foreign Secretary made a full report on the
international situation. Ministers expressed entire agree-
ment with the action already taken and the policy to be
pursued. No further meeting has been arranged.
Was there a soul dismayed in the embattled army
of fountain-pen heroes? Not a soul. The British
Ambassador was taken back to Germany to Warn
Hitler, a previous Warning to Von Ribbentrop having
been ignored. The Yugoslavian 'Government “denied
that Germany had asked it for an assurance of neu-
trality in the event of intervention in Czechoslovakia.”
The Manchester “Garbagetin” refused to believe the
Yugoslavian Government; the “Garbage.tin” knew
for a fact that Germany had “asked Russia, Rumania
and Yugoslavia what they would do if it intervened
in Czechoslovakia ; it shows that Germany is not only
contemplating war, but is seeking to make the Czechs
appear the aggressors.”
And Momentous Manoeuvres were in progress.
Two (2) German divisions had been “massed” on the
Swiss frontier. The French were manoeuvring on their
side of the frontier. The Royal Navy was exercising
—or about to exercise—in the North Sea.
At this juncture Sydney “Sun” transferred the
Crisis from its front page, giving first place in its news
to an urchin’s action for damages against a school-
mistress who had flicked him on the shoulder with a
cane ; but contemporaries struggled manfully to keep
it going. Communist papers were drawn on, notably
“Humanite” (“If Hitler attacks Czechoslovakia he will
face France”) and the “Daily Worker” (“Germany is
preparing to evacuate the whole population from the
west bank of the Rhine”). And Mr. Winston Churchill
discovered that the world was moving—“moving
towards a climax which cannot much longer be
delayed.”
It was reserved for the Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
to postpone the beginning of the war. Hostilities are
not to break out till “soon after October 15 if there
is no settlement beforehand.” Diggers remember
what Europe is like for campaigning “soon after
October 15” ; but it would be an appropriate time for
a madmen’s war whipped up by liars.
Wool, War Scares, etc.
Sales in the first week of the new wool season pro-
duced the impression that it will be some weeks,
perhaps some months, before the market settles down.
Prices for the best types showed no appreciable
fall; for anything but the best they were lower than
at the end of last season in Sydney and in Adelaide.
In Sydney effects of the drought were evident in lines
submitted. Average price in Sydney for the week was
only 9.4 d. per pound, but types must be considered.
Overseas indications are that the decline in values is
a genuine market condition and not merely due to
momentary buying timidity.
In Sydney Germany was the steadiest buyer of
some types. France bought fairly heavily. Yorkshire
buying was dull. Japan went after enough picked lines
to make an impression on prices. The U.S.A. was out
of the market. Belgium was a bidder for the poorer
wools, and Italy bought a little, as did the Australian
mills.
At the beginning of the month Bradford tops were
easier. Overseas buyers were “holding off pending
the outcome of the European situation.”
It was, of course, a war-scare week, and war
scares have their influence on the price of wool, as
well as on stock and share quotations. The same
press that goes in for war scares directs a constant
stream of abuse at Germany, Japan and Italy, because
it hates their methods and their forms of govern-
ment. It is all too probable that this senseless cam-
paign has given a stimulus to the production of arti-
ficials in all three countries and influenced also the
decline in their general purchases of Australian goods.
In the case of Japan this has transferred a trade
balance that was greatly in Australia’s favor into one
that is now against us. German and Italian buying
of Australian wool has fallen off heavily.
The inhabitants of these countries are no less
touchy than we should be in a like situation. It
seems highly likely that the economic position would
improve if dailies and weeklies showed some con-
sideration for Australian producers and gave up weep-
ing over and stormily demanding “positive action” or
something for Chinese, Red Spaniards and Czechs.
Conscious Imitation?
Melbourne has been the scene of another payroll
murder, the victim this time being a middle-aged shoe
manufacturer. He was driving through Clifton Hill
with the secretary of the concern when two masked
ruffians, in a stolen car, rammed their sedan into the
gutter.
One of the bandits fired into the sedan through
a window, splinters of glass cutting the secretary’s
face. The other jumped out, pointed a revolver at
the manufacturer, who was at the wheel, and threw
open the door. The manufacturer stepped out and
tried to seize the revolver, but was shot dead. Then
one of the murderers grabbed a bag full of silver
from between the secretary’s legs—they missed the
main booty—and the bandits’ car made off, hotly
pursued by the plucky owner of a utility van who,
being unarmed, could do nothing more than keep them
under observation. Hours later the car was found up
a side street abandoned and burning.
The crime so closely followed models made
familiar by Hollywood films and New York horror
magazines that it is difficult not to suspect conscious
imitation. Moreover, the scene of the holdup has a
bad reputation, having figured in two previous incidents
similar in kind, if not so fatal. The murdered man had
himself been stuck up in the same place at the same
time. He thereupon secured police protection, but
unfortunately dispensed with it on the day of the
shooting. The crime must have been as carefully
planned as it was brutally executed.
The vogue of horror magazines has been defended
on the ground that the “best” sort of horror maga-
zine acts as a deterrent to crime. “Best,” as well as
“worst,” is more likely to give morons an obsession
for spectacular violence ; in any case, the horror maga-
zine surrounds with a halo the subnormal type of
individual who makes crime a profession. “Squizzy”
Taylor, for example.
While the late “Squizzy” was alive and in opera-
tion he was a sort of legendary Robin Hood of the
underworld who was supposed to lead a splendid
and glamorous existence. When he came to an end
in particularly sordid circumstances and light was let
into his miserable history, it was found to be as glam-
orous as a rat’s and as magnificent as a white-ant’s.
But writers of romantic crime fiction are not con-
cerned with facts.
Highland Going Higher.
Because it expects that State-Government participa-
tion will cushion the shock of public opposition, the
Lyons Government has agreed to the plan for fixing
the home-consumption price of wheat at 4s. Bd. a
bushel, which means that it will impose the necessary
tax.
It would be far fairer to all concerned, and better
for the wheatgrowers themselves, to do what Canada
is doing— guarantee a price of 3s. 4d. a bushel for all
wheat delivered. Australians who can see farther
than their noses would rather accept a temporary loss
in which all would share than drag a disproportionate
part of the sixpence a bushel which the home-con-
sumption business is expected to get for growers from
the pockets of workingmen. Besides, co-operation with
Canada in this matter has become a political neces-
sity. Without it, both countries may lose their British
preference.
When the State Premiers were deliberating, the
yarn was that the price of bread wouldn’t and couldn't
go up. It is now said that bread will be “about” six-
pence the two-pound loaf.
Milk is sevenpence and eightpence a quart. Butter
is Is. Id. a pound, bacon round Is. Id. Meat is at
famine prices. Sydney master butchers admit that it
is far too dear, but protest that they can’t help it. In
Melbourne an artificial scarcity has been created, with
the usual results for consumers, because the Govern-
ment still refuses to let the Board of Works sell fat
cattle from its Werribee farm —an embargo whjch has
disorganised its finances.
Beer is ninepence a pint. Potatoes are twopence
a pound. In Maoriland they are a drug on the market;
at the week-end it was reported that “the price at
Christchurch is 30s. a ton f.o.b. trucks.” N.S.W.
orange-growers are broke because they are not allowed
to sell their oranges in Maoriland, and Maoriland
potato-growers are broke because they are not allowed
to sell potatoes in Australia. This when their coasts
are separated by a strip of over which, before long,
machines —freight-carriers some of them —will fly in
six or seven hours!
Everything is going up. Manufacturers of
groceries have increased their prices, although they
are doing well. The Aerated Bread Co. reported a
profit of 26 per cent. Coastal shipping freight rates
are up ; sales tax is to be increased, and that will assist
the general tendency; Canberra is “revising” its
income-tax rates. The effect on State Budgets will be
pronounced, but that aspect hasn’t been considered by
State Governments.
Is the cost of living of no interest whatever to our
horde of politicians? Do members of all parties agree
in principle that the workers are never to be permitted
to share in the bounty of nature, or in the increased
production to which their own contribution is so
great? It seems like it.
Humbug and Half-measures.
Those who derive pleasure from the contemplation of
humbug, especially the political variety, are recom-
mended to make themselves acquainted with the his-
tory of the N.S.W. Gaming and Betting (Amendment)
Bill. The measure was minted in the brain of the
Stevens Government, which aspires to eradicate s.p.
betting—or so it says—and when this design was made
known a horde of moralists arose to urge the Govern-
ment on. In the van of these moralists were pro-
prietary-racing gents and the Rugby League.
The Rugby League is a professional football
organisation which originated in the wholesale pur-
chase of amateurs by a pony-club magnate, who is
still in the racing business; and it has been faithful
to the grand old traditions of pony-racing and com-
mercialised sport. So the community was greatly
edified when the League came out with a fervent
appeal for immediate and total suppression of s.p.
betting to save the youth of the nation from its con-
taminating touch.
Then Waddell, M.L.A., was heard from. He said
in effect that the League itself had ministered to the
craze it denounced
Rugby League headquarters is one of the biggest
gambling joints in Sydney. For 14 years, until a few
weeks before the deputation came to plead with the
Minister, the League allowed up to half a dozen book-
makers to operate every Saturday on its premises.
Until the Government saw fit to declare certain hotels
common gaming-houses, the League was one of the
sporting organisations that were afraid of having their
premises similarly declared.
But Waddell, M.L.A., himself did not escape.
When the bill was about to be carried to “another
place,” so altered that its own parents scarcely knew
it, the Premier turned hotly on Mr. Waddell and two
other U.A.P. members, saying that their “opposition to
the second reading” had been “in harmony with the
opposition from lawbreakers, s.p. bookmakers.” Mr.
J. C. Ross, M.L.A., protested to the Chair. Mr.
Waddell demanded a withdrawal and an apology,
which the Premier declined to give. Then Mr. Ross
moved —unavailing!y—-“that the Premier be no longer
heard.”
Previously, the Premier had said, in response to
a challenge, that he “would like to have the assistance
of the House to stop anyone under twenty-one years
going on a racecourse.” “Test the House then! ” inter-
jected Mr. Waddell. “You stand up here and in your
own electorate to advocate s.p. betting,” the Premier
retorted; but he didn’t test the House. Nor was the
House tested on the clause —to which exception was
here taken —that the averment in an information that
a person was a bookmaker should be prima facie
evidence of the fact. The clause was dropped.
Newspapers figured largely in the Assembly dis-
cussions, and members were evidently irritated by the
combination of moral sentiments in editorial columns
with the issue of Form-at-a-Glance supplements. The
Chief Secretary saw fit to drop another provision pro-
hibiting newspaper publication of nominations, weights
and acceptances without the authority of a particular
club, the feeling of the House being that this would
give clubs arbitrary power to punish critics. An
attempt was made to have racecourse prices “declared
by a Treasury official and an official of the club after
the last race.” The idea was to strike at a Sydney
“Morning Herald” monopoly, but the chairman ruled
the amendment out of order.
Then the House prevented a “Sun” monopoly by
forbidding newspaper as well as radio publication of
betting odds “before the last race”: the original clause
had banned wireless publication of the odds only.
The amendment was moved by former Chief Secretary
Chaffey, who was having his tit-for-tat with the Gov-
ernment and with the U.A.P. press.
Mr. Lang thinks s.p. betting could be stopped by
prohibiting the publication of the odds through any
medium. That has been tried in Maoriland and has
failed. If “the weights” were substituted for “the
odds,” publication being confined to the racecourse,
s.p. betting would disappear. But that will never be
adopted. Politicians are too fond of half-measures,
and there are too many humbugs about.
Immigrants We Could Take.
From “Kwakprak”—himself something of a scientist:
Australia has made some first-rate contributions to the
advancement of science, but—as has been pointed out —mainly
by exporting Australian scientists to other parts of the Empire.
And though there is plenty more good material coming on,
most of the best of it will inevitably go overseas.
Australia can provide fields of work, plenty of them, and
no country needs first-rate workers in them more than does
Australia. But Australia cannot provide the opportunities
and technical facilities for exploring them, the continual
stimulus-contact of eager, questing minds, the recognition and
rewards which urge the seeker to scale new heights of thought
and achievement to prove his powers yet further. Nor, with
few exceptions, can Australia yet provide teachers capable ol'
helping its best young brains to develop best along highly-
specialised lines of single-minded devotion to original thought
and reasoning.
For 40 years most of the best scientific work in Germany
and Austria has been done by Jewish brains. That type of
Jew is no more concerned with politics than Monash was.
A fair living wage for time-limited appointments would give
us the pick amongst hundreds of first-rate chemists, biochemists,
mathematicians, physicists, pathologists, agronomists and a
dozen other kinds of highly-expert research workers homeless
in Europe.
Conditions could be so drawn as to exclude all possibility
oi competition with our own workers, now or hereafter. The
C.S. and 1.R., the Commonwealth Health Department and the
universities could, among them, assess the lines of work and the
number required in each for research or teaching of any kind
not yet fully provided for in Australia —which is a wide
field. For £50,000 p.a. for five years, we could improve
immensely our scientific standards and our knowledge of many
Australian problems and conditions.
Even if our best brains continue to leave us, such a
stimulating injection of outside intellect might produce lasting
results.


“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
“Nakh”: A Melbourne artist who
sports a beard, on his way to a friend’s
for dinner the other Saturday night,
picked up an elderly metho.-drinker in
the last stages of collapse. He put him
into his car and took him to an institu-
tion for old men, but the regulations
didn’t provide for cases of that sort; so
he ran the derelict up to Gordon House.
As the Good Samaritan handed him
over, the metho. addict dissolved in
thanks: “Nobody’s ever treated me like
this,” he said tearfully. Then he added:
“I’ll be at the service to-morrow morn-
ing, sir!”
* :!= * *
“Billjim”: Not all the warrior women
are in China and Spain. There is a
doomed battalion in Queensland, too.
There the wives of soldier settlers are
organising to protect their men and
children from eviction. The womenfolk
say that now the R.S.S.I.L.A. and the
men have been defeated by the politi-
cians and the departments, it’s up to them
to constitute the last line of defence. All
very illegal and deplorable, no doubt,
but I don’t see why Communistic Ama-
zon battalions should get all the lime-
light.
* * * *
“T.”: Some barbarous expressions
came in with the Great War, but nothing
quite so hideous as “contact,” used as
a verb. It is getting a great run at radio
stations, and newspapers are almost as
persistent offenders. I wish the per-
petrators could make up their minds
whether it is transitive or intransitive.
Do you contact a person or thing or
contact “with” him or it? I have seen
both usages in the same issue of a Great
Daily.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: A spot of
radiant hilarity came through the cabled
calamity-howls with the announcement
of Lord Gifford’s arrest at Biarritz for
having used an Australian surf-board
and disregarded lifeguard warnings. The
title camouflaged that chubby-faced
snotty of the Gallipoli Landing, after-
wards, as “Giff,” or, more formally,
Lieut.-Commander C. M. E. Gifford, aide
to N.S.W. Governor Game. Later still,
organising sec. to the Royal Prince Alfred
Hospital, the life of every party and a
stout lad in the surf. Now in business
in London, “Giff” got off with a caution
from the French Beak, after nearly caus-
ing a riot on the aristocratic shore. He
was told that his offence was all the more
serious because a lifeguard had actually
put on bathing-dress in preparation for
a gallant rescue, which, apparently was
all torn by “Giff” finishing his shoot
before the guard was ready. If the 8.8. C.
wasn’t so beastly snooty, he could make
a delicious broadcast of the story.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Commonwealth note-
experts have to deal with some queer
currency-relics at times. However
chewed, charred, mangled, greasy,
pulped, torn, or confetti’d a note may
be, its full value is paid if the series
number at each end can be identified.
If only one, half the value is forth-
coming. Under expert treatment, num-
bers have been deciphered from notes
which have been baked to flimsy ashes
in ovens, put through mincing machines,
chaffcutters and sugar rollers, boiled in
the pockets of clothing, pulped for days
in salt or freish water, torn to tiny
fragments by a cockatoo or pup, re-
covered after weeks in a crow’s or mag-
pie’s nest, or even digested by a cow.
A useful point to remember about frog-
skins is that, if the owner keeps a record
of the number, he can recover full value
for any completely destroyed note by
making a statutory declaration and giv-
ing an indemnity bond to the bank
against fraud.
* * * *
“D.E.”: The Germans get dashed
wild when their Hitler is traduced on
the score of his private life, as he is
“ I say there, We'll have to go back. I've forgotten my sword.”
by foreign newspapermen, film-fakers
and radio louts; and no wonder.
As someone has written, the man is
really a South German variety of what
we call a wowser, and the German
women say “Ach, he is married to Ger-
many” ; but it is the fashion of his
enemies to picture him as a monster of
depravity. By confession of even the
New Journalism, the controlled German
press handled the Mrs. Simpson affair
with decent restraint; and one can
imagine how Paris journalists would
have dealt with it had it happened, say,
in 1902 instead of 1936, when the French
were —as they still are—-scared stiff. So
there is really no excuse for muck such
as was cabled to Sydney “Sun” by Our
Special Representative:
If the Germans are hoping for a big
foreign market for their gigantic film of
the 1936 Olympiad ffiey will be disap-
pointed.
Many of the events are exciting, and
some of the photography is beautiful; but,
unhappily, Herr Hitler’s friend, Leni Riefen-
stahl, the producer, sacrificed herself on
the altar of German efficiency.
“Herr Hitler’s friend!” “The Mush of
Time,” which “dramatises” the news for
readers of another Great Daily, has
found other “friends” for the Ftihrer —
the Hon. Unity Mitford and Renate
Muller, the actress. The mush about
Renate was that she threw herself out
of a window to escape his ’orrible atten-
tions.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: With all the other
human sheep I entered the queue the
other night at the Sydney G.P.O. to buy
a stamp, but when I was third from the
winner the first strokes of six o’clock
rang out from the tower. Immediately
blinds were pulled down along the
counters. Protests were greeted with an
anguished “Can’t help it. You can get
stamps at the front counter. Rules say
we close here at six.” We turned away
meek but sad and pattered to the tele-
graph office, which is the only place
in the biggest G.P.O. in Sydney where
a stamp can be bought in the evening.
By the time we were served it was nearly
6.10 and I had palled up with a fellow-
martyr. “Well,” he said cheerfully, “I
know another place down the street
where they have strict six o’clock closing.
Let’s make for it.” We did. There were
no blinds in front of the counters there,
in spite of a mandatory law. Bottles and
glasses were passing through the air by
the hundred. And the barmaids seemed
to be taking it in good part. Possibly
they’ve never worked at the G.P.O.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: Doubt the contention (B.
24/8/’3B) that “Jimmy O’Goblins” is
rhyming slang or that it was brought
to Australia by ships’ stewards. The
phrases which make up rhyming slang
are invariably of three syllables—“daisy
roots,” “this an’ that,” “I’m afloat,”
“total wreck” and “round me houses”
for “boots,” “hat,” “coat,” “cheque”
and “trousers.” Writer first made con-
tact with the monetary term as a small
boy in Western Queensland when the
big annual meeting of the Western
Downs Jockey Club brought racehorses
and their attendants by the dozen
through the Barcoo station on which he
then dwelt, and has always considered
it as the lingua franca of the professional
racing fraternity.
“Mahlstick”: While Arthur Streeton
was holding a show of his latest paintings
at Melbourne Athensum an early work
of his, in private ownership, changed
hands for close on £lOOO, a great deal
more than he originally sold it for. There
is a law i.n France, which might be
copied in Australia, providing that every
time a work is resold at a profit the
artist must receive a substantial pro-
portion of the increment, which is recog-
nised as due to the painter having in-
creased his prestige and hence the com-
mercial value of his work.
* * * *
“Sixenate” : The Law’s memory is as
long as its arm. A man was arrested
recently in Sydney on a warrant 28
years old, which is not a record, for a
warrant 37 years old was executed a
couple of years ago. In both cases the
police had no evidence to offer, the
original complainants being dead and
witnesses vanished. Eight years ago
when a man was arrested on a 17-year-
old warrant the police were able to rake
up evidence, the principal witness being
a cop who had pursued the offender.
The magistrate, in view of the defend-
ant’s exemplary life for many years,
refused to send him to gaol. The
Statute of Limitation wipes out a seven
years’ debt which has not been revived
by some action of the debtor ; and it
would be sensible to apply the same
principle to minor debts due to the law.
* * * *
“Arthur R.”: “She was a Scotch ship,
the wireless man declared. “It was my
second voyage and we were making
seven knots somewhere round the south
of Asia when there came a cry of
‘pirates!’ I rushed on deck to see a
horde of Malays swarming over the side
where the railing had rotted away and
never been repaired. As I said, it was
a Scotch ship. I raced bacjc to the spark
factory, hooked a length of spare aerial
wire to the high tension of the trans-
mitter and switched on the juice, running
the bare wire in front of the oncoming
pirates. In a few minutes all danger
was over. The iron deck of the ship
made a splendid ‘earth,’ and the naked
bodies of the pirates as they breasted
the wire completed the circuit.” “A
beautiful narrative, laddie,” cut in Mac-
Pherson. “But if it was a Scotch ship
whaur did ye find that spare coil of
wire?”
# * * *
“Ek Dum”: The strange delusion that
by misspelling plain English you attract
the attention of the passer-by has spread
to the N. S. Wales railway refreshment-
rooms, which over the entrance to the
Wynyard-street chop palace have inscribed
the word “Grille.” After breaking a tooth
on R.R.R. steak, I decided to do my own
little bit of orthographic reform. Hence-
forth to me the Railway Commissioner
will be Mr. Hurtagain. That spelling is
just as good as the department’s and
more justified.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: I must object to “Vieux
Marcheur” calling the “Pink ’Un” the
“mirror of Edwardian England.” It
really was a mirror of the sporting pail
of society in the last quarter-century of
the reign of Victoria, the time of W. G.
Grace and Henry Irving, of Fred Archer
on the racecourse, John Roberts on the
billiard-table and Arthur Roberts on the
halls. Well do I remember its setting
down of Connie Gilchrist, then on the
crest of her phenomenal stage rise
and shortly to become a countess,
as “the gifted lady who, to use
the family vernacular, now pals up with
dookses”; its epitaph on another and
very different lady as “the true patriot;
she did not keep for a party what was
meant for the State.” John Corlett was
editor then, and his motto was Be funny
at any cost; whether you are improper
or not doesn’t matter.” By Edwardian
days the paper was in other hands, and
those instructions were exactly reversed,
till its ultimate downfall.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: In a Melbourne lawsuit
a fantastic story was unfolded. Defen-
dant, a grazier from N.S.W., fell in love
a year ago with a Melbourne girl, an
artist and the daughter of an Italian
prince. They decided to marry, and the
swain returned to his run to arrange his
affairs. Day before the wedding girl
gets a telegram saying fiance is delayed
by floods. A few days later comes an-
other wire saying he’s dead. That sounds
thin, so girl goes to police, finds her
lover is very much alive, and that he
courted her under an assumed name.
But Romeo has a way with him. He
revisits Melbourne, explains everything,
sets a new date for the wedding—and
disappears again. This time the police,
while unearthing him, discover he’s
already married and has a family. No
matter; he reappears. They are setting
out to start life together when there’s a
financial disagreement. After plaintiff’s
counsel had recited the story the parties
decided to confer, and a settlement was
made.
MODELS OF DECORUM.
“Speaking at an official luncheon, Premier Du 11stan
said it was a welcome change for him to come from
the troubles of Victorian politics into the calmer
and more peaceful atmosphere so characteristic of
the Parliament House of New South Wales.”
Down with the old and hard-to-kill delusion
Which represents our legislative halls
A constant scene of riotous confusion,
A setting for wild winds and sudden squalls,
A rough and rowdy legislative forum
Where party passion ever flares and flames
And orators, disdainful of decorum,
Pelt one another with opprobrious names!
It may have been so once, we will allow,
But here is evidence it isn’t now.
Time was they pictured you—nor was it
seldom —
Mother of Parliaments ifi southern seas,
A noisy hag, a spitting, screaming beldam,
A Billingsgate virago, if you please.
Now you must shed that reputation shady
For good and all, one hopes, and you appear
A quiet, elegant and gentle lady,
Reposeful as a genuine Vere de Vere,
A far more fetching role, you must admit.
Live up to it, old girl, live up to it!
He came to view us from the Cabbage Garden,
•Where fiercer feuds than ours, ’twould seem,
engage
The public mind, and hotter hatreds harden
The readers of the “Argus” and the “Age”;
Fresh from the State where witches’ cauldrons
bubble
He came to breathe, with thankfulness sincere
For respite from a term of toil and trouble,
The calmer and more peaceful atmosphere
That hangs about the premises (or should)
Where Reid made merry and where Parkes
made good.
“Peaceful and calm!” Reflect on that, unruly
And all too often contumacious men.
It’s good to see yourselves as others, truly
Or fancifully, see you now and then.
Compared with members t’other side the border
You get full marks —though some may find
you quaint
As paragons of Parliament’ry order
And models of commendable restraint.
Withal, it makes one feel a little sick
To think what Premiers have to face in Vic.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Spare Corp”: Private Thack never
swore ; he said it was a confession of
inadequate powers of expression. The
end of an impassioned argument with
Baldy Davis was a bet that he could
put more into three or four clean
words than Baldy could in a multitude
of blanks. By popular acclamation the
test was a description of the C. 0., latest
of whose horrible tyrannies was the cut-
ting-out of the rum issue while we were
out of the line, and Baldy began. “The
lousy son of a thinks he’s a
soldier, but the only resem-
blance he well has to a soldier’s
bootlace is that he can —— well
tie himself in knots.” The con-
clusion was a declaration that if there
were ninety-nine thousand nine hundred
and ninety-nine ’s in the A.I.F. the
Old Man would be all of them. It was
a pretty fair effort, and the boys looked
at Thack. “And that’s praising him,”
was Thack’s contribution. We reckoned
he’d won the bet.
* * * *
“V.D.”: When I was motoring near
Ruabon (N. Wales), it was something of
a shock to find the rising sun emblem of
the Australian military badge over the
village pub. The name, “Australian
Arms,” dates no doubt from the war
years. Licensee is a Mrs. Mary Hughes.
* * * *
“Hello”: A Sydney solicitor has let
some light in upon the method employed
by the Postmaster-General’s Department
to discourage complaints from telephone
subscribers who quarrel with their call-
charges. He put in a kick about the
charges on his home ’phone ; waited two
months and then, he says, received a
visit from an officer of the department
who said a check had proved the charges
were correct, and, as evidence, “produced
some pages of written matter. He com-
menced to read from it extracts of pri-
vate conversations of which the depart-
ment had made a record by tapping my
telephone.... some of the extracts were
of a most private and confidential
nature.” To the lay mind it is difficult
to see how listening-in on a subscriber’s
’phone after a complaint has been lodged
could help to substantiate assessments
made at an earlier date, but the P.M.G.’s
Department, quite unabashed, confesses
that that is its way of disciplining rebel
subscribers, and that it is the practice
“throughout the world.” So another
pleasant delusion goes west —the public
used to think the telephone was as private
a means of communication as the post.
* * * ¥
“Trammie”: Tell “Baw Bee” (B.
31/8/’3B) that the Glasgow idea has been
tried in Australia. The tram that runs
from Queen-street to the Gardens in Bris-
bane at one time did not carry a con-
ductor at all. The slotted box was placed
near the driver and there was only one
exit, near the driver. The line was a
financial failure. They pay a conductor
now and make ends meet.
h= * * *
“Oran”: What does become of illumi-
nated addresses? I know where one set
has gone. Visiting the wife of a public
man, I fell to admiring the beautiful gold
frames round most of the pictures in the
drawing-room. “Yes,” said the lady
complacently, “and all of them off those
awful addresses that men will give each
other. Every time my husband got one
I bought a picture the right size for the
frame and backed my picture with the
testimonial. If ever he wants them they
are safe, but 1 am spared having to look
at them.”
* * *
“S.”: When Byron went dashing off
with his cloak and his interesting repu-
tation to fight for the oppressed Greeks,
he was a most gallant figure. But things
have changed. I don’t observe Masefield
galloping off to fight for the Sudeten
Germans. In fact, the very idea’s fan-
tastic. Yet the Sudeten Germans are
undoubtedly an oppressed minority, and
in the days when liberty was spelt with
a capital L one could easily imagine wild
Englishmen and wilder Irishmen going
off to aid them. Having myself not a
rap of feeling either for Czech or Sudeten,
it does strike me as odd that all our
liberty-lovers this time are on the side
of the oppressor. It may be “poor little
Czech” some day, but at the moment
it is poor little German, poor little Hun-
garian, and ever so poor little Pole.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: May Yohe is dead, at 72.
If she knew she was still in the news her
last moments were cheered, for publicity
was the breath of life to her. One of
her theatrical contemporaries described
her as being the possessor of only four
notes “but they
were humdingers.”
She had a habit of
eloping with men
she fancied, and
she drew publicity
also from Edward
Vll.’s friendship (his
portrait hung near
her bed when she
died) and the Hope
diamond. The story
of the ill-luck at-
taching to every
owner of that stone
originated whilst
May Yohe, as the
wife of Lord Francis
Hope (the first of
three husbands), was
the temporary pos-
sessor, and a press
revival was stage-
managed every time
the vicissitudes of
May were men-
tioned. Nothing disastrous has hap-
pened to the American family which now
owns the diamond, though it has had the
stone for over 20 years.
SP V * *
“Peter Piper”: I left my car in a Syd-
ney parking station the other day. Re-
turning, I noticed my petrol-cap missing
and remarked on its absence to the youth-
ful attendant. Unperturbed, he strolled
casually over to a car of the same make
as mine, screwed off the cap and pre-
sented it to me. Wonder who got mine!
* * :J:
“S.T.S.”: The finest free-for-all fight
outside Donnybrook Fair has been
started with a Synod address by Bishop
Thomas, of Willochra, the northern part
of S.A. (not to be confused with Bishop
Nutter Thomas, of Adelaide). Beginning
mildly with the virtue of self-control and
the “deplorable” habit of drinking (or
smoking) before breakfast, he went on
to argue for the opening of hotels till
9 p.m. The closing hour of six, State-
wide for years past, “has nothing in its
favor. The hotel is the poor man’s club,
and it is only fair that those who wish
to spend a convivial evening with their
friends should be able to do so.” Further,
“if this will have the effect of reducing
the attendance at picture theatres, then
“ That's funny; I can't hear your heart beating."
"Good; that oughter get me another two ’undred quid compensation!"
“ Don't be nervous, Prendergast — I'll go dead slow till I get the hang of it."
some good will be accomplished. There
is nothing, I think, more calculated to
addle the brains of the community and
give people a distorted view of life. It
destroys home life” —and so on. The
response from letter-writers, ranging
from satirical to savage, has been tumul-
tuous.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: Before European crises
and charging automobiles we are all prac-
tically helpless, but I refuse any longer
to be at the mercy of the fiends who put
allegedly humorous addresses on the
letters they write. My shotgun is ready
for the weird creature who wrote to me
at my place of business, with a note on
the envelope, “If on the wallaby, please
forward” ; I am practising a new and
deadly skirl on the bagpipes for the
gentleman who addressed me as “Incom-
prehensible Poet.” Down with all wags,
and very deep down with the maniacs
who insult country-town addressees with
“near Woop Woop.”
* # *
“McGlum”: Ping-pong probably
doesn’t rate very high among pastimes,
but Hungarian players Barna and Beliak,
who have been touring round this coun-
try, have undoubtedly raised it to a fine
art. Barna, a five-times world champion,
is the star of the duo, but his cobber
Beliak, ranked number three in the ping-
pong world, is a marvellous exponent of
trick shots. At an exhibition in Mel-
bourne, before a crowd of 3500, he
played a game against himself. Display-
ing unbelievable agility he clouted the
ball backwards and forwards over the
net, retrieving every stroke by racing
around from one end of the 9ft. table
to the other. The repertoire of tricks
possessed by the Hungarians includes
playing the ball with the soles of their
shoes, the ball being returned in this
fashion over the shoulder, hitting the
ball with the edge of the bat and playing
with three balls in action.
* * * *
“Libris”: Judging by the dearth of
free libraries in Australia the authorities
in this land must have been napping when
the Carnegie Trust was handing out
libraries as free gifts to various parts of
the Empire. Maoriland, being addicted
to reading and the acquisition of some-
thing for nothing, spoke up so enthusias-
tically that the Trust was a bit non-
plussed. But though all that was asked
for wasn’t given, M.L. got a goodly num-
ber of the Carnegie grants. I lived in
the Auckland suburb of Mt. Eden, where
the Carnegie library boasted a junior sec-
tion, regularly besieged by crowds of
youngsters.
* * * *
"Wingina”: Yes, it is hard on future
Australian fiction writers that Pigeon and
his gang (B. 20/7/ ’3B) were merely
niggers. Just prior to Pigeon’s last stand
four of his toughest followers were cap-
tured, the toughest being Ellemarra, his
cousin and lieu-
tenant. Taken in to
Derby (W.A.), these
four were tried and
sentenced, Ellemarra
to death, the others
to life on Rottnest.
With a view to
teaching a lesson it
was decided that the
four should be taken
out to Wingina
Gorge, the scene of
the first three mur-
ders, and there, in
the presence of as
many tribesmen as
could be assembled,
Ellemarra should
swing. The Derby
gaol was a slab-
built hut, strong
enough, but to make
doubly sure that the
programme would be
adhered to the four
culprits were hand-
cuffed to a strong
chain that extended
the length of the
building. Addition-
ally they wore 141 b.
leg-irons. Left alone
for a few hours those
simple savages did what few white men
could have accomplished—they broke
their handcuffs. Then, using the broken
cuffs as tools, they ripped up part of the
floor, burrowed beneath the wall and,
still wearing their irons, got clear away.
It was three years later before Elle-
marra was again brought in. They were
hard, those old Gropers; he was
scragged.
SMOKE SIGNALS.
I like the corner my daily lends
To “Personal and Missing Friends,”
Where, packed in a nutshell, one may say
So much (it seems) with so little to pay.
Here lawyers notify those concerned
Where things to their ’vantage may be learned;
And I always hope that the sought-for body
May prove as lucky as “Kipps or Waddy.”
Here are messages, one may well surmise,
Designed for only one pair of eyes,
To all outsiders a puzzle stiff
As an Egyptian hieroglyph.
Here are cryptic warnings in codes complex
Enough to baffle the keenest ’tecs,
Items that smack of the Delphic shrine
Scattered abroad at a bob a line.
Here dates are set for clandestine meets
At trysting-places in city streets.
B t, of all quaint writings on paper walls,
One lingers longest on mating calls. .
And T can’t help wondering now and then
How many women there arc and men,
Stout dames and buffers, or lasses and lads,
Who’ve found their soul-mates by view mat. ads.
N.SW.
PIPARDS.


10 for 9d...20 for 1 7 6
E 1869
/kyj I***’ tyfl.
• Jttmrib kmpHtqtpw
wtff tpmnikh ffrnfi
YN3ATO3
f
dsf
df
MADE
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
“War? What war? There is more talk
of war in Australia th.an there is any-
where abroad.” The speaker was Aus-
tralia’s old friend R. E. Bush, who has
come out from England to have another
look at his Westralian sheep, and to see
how Dalgetys are getting on, and to meet
the Diggers he entertained so hospitably
at his home on Avon’s banks when he
and they were younger. As if to punish
him for obduracy or something, the daily
newspapers administered double doses of
“war” news for the rest of the week.
When last heard of, the generous old
man was in Queensland, perhaps trying
to get away from their “war.”
Nothing can keep Hughes under, not
even the weekly rebuke from Canberra
nor the approach of his 74th birthday.
In Sydney one day last week he held
forth to a meeting of businessgirls on the
need of gingering up the birthrate. Next
day, receiving a deputation of school-
teachers who modestly asked for a Com-
monwealth grant of £5,000,000 a year,
he said: “What this country wants is
somebody to light a firo under it —some
Peter the Hermit, some Savonarola, some
Luther.” But surely one Billy can do all
the firing that’s necessary.
Papua and New Guinea Combined
Administration Suggested—Port Moresby
the Capital—Mr. Fairbairn’s Plan. So it
appeared on Monday. It is The Bulle-
tin’s plan, suggested before Fairbairn
ever went to New Guinea ; but the mem-
ber for Flinders is welcome to all the
credit if he can get it adopted.
To show that the old colonial spirit
is back again:
Mr. W. C. Balmford, an assistant
actuary in the British Government’s Actuary
Department, will be appointed Common-
wealth Government Actuary at a salary
of £1750 a year. The Ministry unsuccess-
fully sought an Australian for the post.
“Unsuccessfully”! This in a country
which has stacks of private actuaries, be-
sides 320,000 Government employees.
Can’t we poor damned Australians do
anything ?
Lyons startled some of the delegates
to the Commonwealth Relations Confer-
ence, and agreeably astonished others,
by telling them his Government was
asking the churches to offer up prayers
for peace in a troubled world. They
acknowledged that they hadn’t expected
to find in “the Prime Minister of one
of our great overseas Dominions” a
simple and devout character, quite an
old-style patriarch. Clergymen of all
denominations are enthusiastic. Only in
the Communist quarter is there scoffing.
Unreported in the cables was the pass-
ing of a Scottish captain’s House of Com-
mons motion for “leave to bring in a
bill to prevent the participation by aliens
in assemblies for the purpose of propa-
gating blasphemous or atheistic doc-
trines.” A Labor writer protests that
the Scottish captain “had a great deal
to say about Soviet Russia, Communism
and Revolution” ; but the thing was really
a protest against the World Union of
Freethinkers’ Congress, which church-
men call “the Godless Conference,”
and which breaks out in London next
week. That Friend of the Soviet Herriot
is to attend and speak. Other heroes of
the war-scare press who are to give it
lip are Cole, Joad, Bertrand Russell and
Professors Haldane and Laski.
Victoria has acquired a “State Econo-
mic Committee” composed of the infal-
lible and inexhaustible Professor Copland,
Director-of-Finance Smithers, and Mc-
Pherson, of . the N.Z. Loan and Mer-
cantile Co. The pretence that Victoria
needs a State Government will be con-
tinued.
The clumsy Sydney Government was
very properly snubbed last week. It tried
to silence members who wanted to speak
on its s.p. bill, and the gag division saw
it beaten by three votes, 13 of its own
supporters —Mutch, the latest addition,
was among them —crossing the floor. So
even U.A.P. worms can turn.
Canberra proudly announces a trade
agreement with Switzerland, and suggests
that others may be arranged with Ceylon
and India. In all three cases the balance
is against Australia, and trade-agreement
history suggests that if Canberra has its
way the position in each case will be
worse still. If Trade Commissioners and
Assistant Commissioners are appointed
to each country this will be a certainty.
“The head of the Australian navy is English, the head of the Australian army is
English, and it is expected that the head of the Australian air force will be English.”
“ ’Shun!"
Sydney’s “new” “Labor Daily” labori-
ously explains, for the special information
of the L.0.L., that it is neither Commu-
nist nor Catholic. Also that, although
“Communism rejects the idea of God,
which the Catholic Church regards as
vital to its theology three very power-
ful forces will draw” that church
“irresistibly to the Left.” So there now!
A Labor Opposition measure providing
for three-year instead of five-year Assem-
blies, and for the substitution of six years
for ten in the case of the Council, is
through the S.A. Assembly. Only one of
the 15 Independents, Fisk, of Glenelg,
was against it. Borrowing a wrinkle from
Forgan Smith in Queensland, Richards,
the Labor leader, included a clause speci-
fying that the life of the existing Parlia-
ment may not be lengthened except by
referendum.
Very little is heard nqwadays about
the loans that the great Theodore floated
in the U.S.A. by way of showing John
Bull that Queensland would stand no
nonsense from that party ; but they have
to be mentioned sometimes. Treasurer
Cooper was asked recently (1) how much
was owed to Uncle Sam in July, 1937,
and (2) how much paid in interest for
the ensuing twelvemonth. The reply was
(1) $18,971,500; (2) $1,186,185; m
pounds Australian, £299,033 10s. 6d.
Wonderful financier, Theodore!
For once the Sydney Trades and Labor
Council has done something that isn't
Red or Pink. At the instance of the
Amalgamated Printers it has denounced
government by regulation on the ground
that it “facilitates the growth of Fas-
cism.” It is certainly a threat to Par-
liamentary government.
One of the charms of the “new” “S. M.
Herald” is the charter it gives to leader-
page contributors to contradict leader-
writers. It may be unintentional, but it
happens with gratifying frequency. An
editorial gave three hearty Hunter-street
cheers for the Evian Conference, saying
that the U.S.A. had undertaken there to
admit 100,000 German-Austrian refugees
in five years, and that it was a glowing
example to Australia. Last week an-
other writer cynically reported on the
same leader-page what “some observers
who were at the Evian Conference do
not hesitate to say frankly.”
There was a general tendency to regard
the circumstances of the hour as a Heaven-
sent opportunity to fill Australia’s empty
spaces. It has been very noticeable in
recent months that many European pub-
licists are very prone to work out Aus-
tralia’s problems for her on a sheer folk-to-
the-acre basis.
The cynic is Our London Correspondent.
Finding his duties too frightfully oner-
ous, Martin, one of the Assistant Min-
isters in Melbourne, who was also Gov-
ernment Whip, has given up that im-
portant position, and the Goulburn
Valley McDonald (one of three) has
been appointed in his stead. Goulburn
Valley Mac’s work will be to round up
about 20 members, of whom eight are
Ministers and a ninth Chairman of Com-
mittees. According to the “Age,” the
change will assist the predominant
minority to cope with the knavish tricks
of “a wily and obstreperous Opposition” ;
and Argyle and Kent Hughes are im-
mensely flattered.
J. C. Westhoven, the Commonwealth
Public Service Arbitrator, reports that the
income-tax investigator in the central
office at Melbourne needs to be “a master
of every phase of accountancy,” and to
have withal “unusual probity, firmness,
pertinacity, tact and discretion”; and so
he deserves a rise from £5lO-£582, his
present salary-range, to £582-£660. For
such a paragon it seems dirt-cheap. Our
tax-gatherers are competent; the trouble
is that there are so many of them and
that much of their work is unnecessary.
Impressions of a traveller returned
from Europe —A. H. Lawrence, the Ben-
digo manager of the Myer concern,
which was founded by Jews from Russia:
Czechoslovakia is to a great extent con-
trolled by Jewish interests, and many of
these Jews, refugees from Germany
would fight against Germany rather than
submit to confiscation.
The words “a great extent” may be over-
doing it, but the Bendigo man makes other
pertinent observations which are un-
assailable; (1) “Any idea that Hitler rules
by force may be discarded ; the Germans
think the world of him” ; (2) “the Ger-
man people of Switzerland long since
ceased to regard themselves as Germans.”
Another Grave International Situation
may develop out of a childish wrangle
between two sets of tennis boys, Ameri-
can and Australian, as to which collection
should have had first use of courts to
practise on at Philadelphia. “Incidents
such as these,” quoth “S. M. Herald,”
“are most unpleasant at any time, but on
the eve of The Match they assume a far
greater significance and may have reper-
cussions.” Surely, Granny doesn’t want
another war?
Finance Minister Nash to Maoriland:
We say to all in need, “There is no
cause for you to worry about food, shelter
or clothing. They are being provided for
you.”
The social-security scheme could be ex-
pressed in this fashion:
Come all ye who labor and have votes
and we will provide for you from the
cradle to the grave for a shilling in the
pound of your pay. And after us the
deluge!
Nash denies that social security will need
a tax of 2s. 6d. in the pound. He says
somebody has mentioned two bob in
the pound, but if it is two bob the
worker will pay no more than a bob.
Perhaps the difference will be made up
by taxing armorial bearings.
Queensland Government lottery agents
divided £143,153 in 1937-38. The biggest
concern’s cut amounted to £31,098. If
Australians could buy premium bonds
as an alternative there would be no need
to employ agents and no one would lose
any money. Subscriptions would remain
the property of subscribers, and they
would receive part of an agreed-upon
rate of interest periodically; the rest
would be distributed periodically by lot.
Pettigrove, of the Federated Taxpayers,
has worked it out that for the year to
June 30 Australians paid £l7 6s. sd. per
head —convicts, imbeciles, babies-in-
arms and politicians included —in Federal
and State taxes, exclusive of the wool
levy (£77,500). Tax-revenue per head is
no perfect reflection of the incidence of
taxation. One of the flaws is illustrated
by the fact that the unemployed-relief
yield in N.S.W. showed a substantial in-
crease for the twelvemonth, although
relief-tax rates had been reduced. Still,
the Pettigrove calculation is striking
enough for politicians to forget all about
it as soon as they can.


IT WON’T WORK NOW.
“A Sydney ‘Sun’ correspondent claims that the judicious use of the strap for disobedient or wilful daughters would prove an effective deterrent.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued . . . . 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. . . . . .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH USTRALIA.
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
112 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
SALE OF SHARES.
SALE OF SHARES SALE OF SHARES
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT COMPANY
35,000 “A” SHARES OF £6 EACH
IN THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT COMPANY.
IN LOTS OF 16, WITH THE OPTION OF TAKING A LESSER NUMBER.
For Auction Sale,
IN THE ROOMS OF RICHARDSON AND WRENCH, LIMITED,
92 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, ON
MONDAY, 19th SEPTEMBER, 1938,
COMMENCING AT 1 0 A.M.
Terms and Conditions announced at the Sale, or obtainable on application to t e
Auctioneers, Members of the Stock Exchange, or The Australian Gas Lig t ompan
35,000 “A” SHARES OF £6 EACH IN THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT COMPANY.
RICHARDSON AND WRENCH, LIMITED, Auctioneers, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
NO SOAP
NO WATER
NEEDED.
m
Shave Electrically
Schick Electric Dry Shavers hanish
after-shave soreness . . . Schick
Shavers CANNOT irritate the ten-
derest skin. Over 2,000,000 Schick
users enjoy the sweetest, smoothest
shaves science has found. Fully
guaranteed for 12 months, £5/10/-
Factory Representatives:
E.T.C. INDUSTRIES, LTD.,
470 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
et™
ds
PERTGNAL ITEMJ
On Saturday knight Thomas Buckland
flew over Sydney in the Avro-Anson
bomber which, to a large extent, was
his gift to the R.A.A.F. “A fine ex-
perience, but I hope it will never be
used,” was his comment on alighting.
The old man—he is 89—is never likely
to take up flying at the expense of
motoring. He drives his own car to
and from the beautiful hospital he has
endowed in the Blue Mountains.
Douglas Berry Copland, head of the
little “brain trust” the Vic. Government
has set up to advise it on economics, was
much in the public eye during the depres-
sion as a diagnostician of those gloomy
times. A Maorilander by birth, he gradu-
ated at Canterbury College, attaining a
doctorate in science in 1915 for researches
into Australian currency and finance. He
has taught at his Alma Mater and at
Tas. Uni., and has been Dean of the
Faculty- of Commerce at Melb. Uni. since
1924. Sometimes in collaboration with
Shann, who died young, he wrote five
weighty tomes during the period 1930-34.
His connection with the Premiers’ Plan
to cope with the slump won him a C.M.G.
Robert Stanley Richards, leader of
the Opposition in the S.A. Parliament,
was born at Moonta, S.A., 53 years ago,
son of a Cornish miner, though he
doesn’t look much like the Cousin Jacks
R. S. RICHARDS.
of brother-in-law Oswald Pryor. Rich-
ards, after some experience in the news-
paper business (he sold ’em on street
corners), got a job in the mines as a
“picky boy,” later becoming a mine
carpenter. Got into Parliament in 1918
as member for Wallaroo, and has held
the seat against all comers ever since.
Held various portfolios in Hill’s Labor
Administration, and had a short-lived
Premiership in 1933. Learned to speak
as a Methodist lay-preacher, but loves
a spot of sport, and never misses a foot-
ball or cricket match he can get to.
“R.V.” : Forty-five years ago H. D.
Flannagan, supervisor of clerical ad-
ministration in the Vic. telegraph branch,
commenced pushing dots and dashes
through the old Eastern Extension
cables when those thin ties of Empire
were the only means of communication
between the Hub and Australia, and a
cable cost as many pounds as it now
costs shillings. Before hand transmission
changed to automatic on the Georgetown
(Speck)-Flinders cable he joined the Tas.
Government service. Later he was trans-
ferred to the Commonwealth service. He
has just retired after 38 years of it. The
cables he once worked now carry mul-
tiple streams of cables, as well as tele-
phone conversations. For five years
Flannagan was secretary and arbitration
advocate to the Telegraphists’ Associa-
tion.
In appearance E. A. Gaden, partner in
the Sydney firm of Norton Smiths, who
is dead at 74, was the kind of solicitor
who will soon exist only in the memory
of the Oldest Inhabitant: tall, wiry and
ascetic-looking in decorous black garb.
But in his youth he was a great oarsman,
and 51 years in practice had not dimmed
his delight in the humors of the law or
left him unwary of its pitfalls. To put
a knotty point before him was like
attending a good hare-run.
The highest rank held by an An-
tipodean in the R.A.F. is that of
C. T. Maclean. Born at Greymouth
(M.L.) he had an infantry commission
before the war, at the beginning of
which he succeeded in getting into
the Royal Fusiliers. He was an M.C.
in early 1915, was seconded to the
R.F.C. the same year, earned his
Royal Aero Club certificate in October,
and in 1916 was commanding No. 11
Squadron on the Western Front. An-
other six months saw him a lieut.-col.
with a temporary command of an army
air wing. He ended the war with a
D. In later years he has been in
command at Aden and Heliopolis, an Air
Commodore and Postings Director,
C.-in-C. of the Middle East Command,
and Air Vice-Marshal. He has now taken
over one of the most important bomber
commands in the Empire—No. 2, at
Wyton.
Sydney Show regulars have got used
to the presence of George Walker in the
agricultural pavilion. For 31 years a
member of the R.A.S. council, the well-
liked wheat dealer (he runs the firm of
Lindley Walker and Co.) inaugurated the
field-wheat contests which have put
bushels an acre on the State yield, started
the district exhibits which have become
a star turn at Sydney Show, linked N. S.
Wales country show societies in an asso-
ciation for their own good, did much
solid work for fodder conservation and
boosted the Junior Farmer movement.
Business reasons having compelled him
to retire from the council, fellow-coun-
cillors gave him an illuminated address,
and S’Sam and others said nice things
about him.
After long suffering, Gilbert Wallace,
for many years editor of the Victorian
“School Paper,” died on August 30. He
was a graceful versifier, and buried away
in scores of papers and journals are
many of his own lyrics and translations
from the French and German ; strangely
enough, his only book was one of prose
with the prosaic title of Australian
Manufactures.
Passed on at 74, Jessie Mackay, prob-
ably Maoriland’s best-known poetess —
you’ll find her in all the anthologies.
Brought up on a South Canterbury sheep-
station, near the “Mackenzie Country,”
she started work as a schoolteacher, and
her early verse was inspired by Celtic
folklore intermingled with memories of
country life. As she grew older she
became an espouser of the feminist
cause, of prohibition, and Home Rule
for Ireland, and there was a quaint con-
trast between the fierceness of her
polemics and the gentle placidity of the
writer. For many years she was social
editor of the now-long-defunct “Canter-
bury Times” (Christchurch), and had
literary connection with Australian and
London journals. Unmarried, she adopted
a baby girl, and her home on the Cash-
mere Hills was a quietly happy one.
William James Cleary, chairman of
the A.B.C. these last four years, is
Sydney-born. After an education at
High and Sydney Uni. he commenced
the century with a job at Tooth’s
Brewery, and in 23 years climbed to the
general manager’s chair. Always keenly
W. J. CLEARY.
(Modelled by Frith.)
interested in economic questions, he was
a lecturer at Sydney Uni. in such sub-
jects 20 years ago. After six years as
boss of Tooth’s he resigned to become
Commissioner of the Government Rail-
ways. The Lang Government had some-
one else for the job, and Cleary went
into eclipse for a couple of years, re-
appearing to accept control of broadcast-
ing. Fifty-two, married, with five daugh-
ters, Cleary keeps himself fit with tennis,
long walks and swimming.
From an old friend:
The late E. T. Lascelles (B. 3/8/’3B) came
to Queensland to his cousin, Harold Finch
Hatton, another scion of the British peerage,
who had Spencer station, near Mackay, and
after whom Finch Hatton (N.Q.) is named.
About 1881 Lascelles and C. J. Crofton acquired
Mt. Pleasant, on the Bogie, which E.T.L.
afterwards owned, surviving the hard days of
the early ’nineties. But he was one of the
lucky ones who invested in the Victoria mine
at Charters Towers and in the evergreen Raub
(Malay Peninsula), on which he personally re-
ported. In 1893 he helped to float the Bowen
Meat Export Co., of which he was a foundation
director and for which he regulated supplies.
He was also a member of the Bowen-Proser-
pine board which built the Bowen-Proserpine
line. In 1910 he bought Gooranga, Proserpine
and Banana Pocket, which he opened up and
which is now an important canegrowing centre.
He married a Miss Boyle from Leicestershire.
It was his son, who succeeds him in the
property at Gooranga, who married a daughter
of John Taylor, of Rockwood.
Churchill Julius, dead in M.L. at 91,
was an English clergyman who, at 37,
became vicar at Ballarat. His broad-
minded sermons made an impression
that re-echoed right across the Tasman,
and when old Bishop Harper died
the M.L. Anglicans picked Julius as
Bishop of Christchurch. The new
shepherd arrived in 1890, while the
maritime strike was raging, and put
himself on side with a democratic com-
munity by stating that his sympathies
were with the strikers. Furthermore, he
said he could see no sin in a pipe and a
glass of beer. His gift for diplomacy
was further exemplified in his manage-
ment of Synod debates. After 32 years
in the Christchurch see he became Pri-
mate and Archbishop of New Zealand,
resigning three years later because he
felt a younger man should have the reins.
He returned to his home on the Cash-
mere Hills, overlooking Christchurch, and
occupied his declining years with study
and his hobby of mechanical engineer-
ing. Knight George Julius, notable Aus-
tralian engineer and inventor of totali-
sator mechanism, is the archbishop’s
eldest son.
One of Australia’s biggest men in
sport, literally as well as figuratively, is
Fred Timbury, solicitor and ex-Mayor
of Roma (Q.). Fred scaled 15st. 101 b.
when he donned his Rugby Union jersey
for Queensland in 1909 and for Aus-
tralia against N.Z. in 1910. He had
already gained his Queensland cap for
cricket as a fast bowler. In 1919-20 he
was picked to play tennis for the State
in Brisbane and Sydney matches. If
Queensland teams were selected for big-
game fishing Timbury would be sure of
a place ; on regulation tackle he caught
the first striped marlin landed in Queens-
land.
' “Fong Tsz” on a picturesque visitor:
One of the most extraordinary personalities
at the International Relations Conference is Sir
John Pratt, whom all the Orient knows as one
of the great living authorities on Chinese life
and character. He is a son of an Indian civil
servant, and his connection with the land of Han
began when he had passed the difficult examina-
tion which made him a student-interpreter at
22. Tall and wiry, this distinguished Orientalist
might now easily pass in suitable costume for
a noble Manchu, and his command of Chinese
languages is said to be unexcelled. He was
called to the Middle Temple Bar in 1905 with
a certificate of honor, became an assessor of
the Shanghai Mixed Court in 1909, and just
before the outbreak of war took over the
important British Consulate at Tsinan. In
1922 he became Consul-General in Nanking,
and two years later was transferred to Shang-
hai and thence to the Foreign Office. He was
knighted in 1929. One of the visitor’s brothers
is a retired Judge of the Indian High Court
and author of many Indian legal works; an-
other has been Commissioner, N. Division,
Bombay Presidency, and is a Bombay M.L.C.;
and yet another is known to the cinema world
as Boris Karloff.
Brisbane gets a good medico from
Adelaide in Felix Arden, now superin-
tendent of the Children’s Hospital there
—he is to hold a similar post in the
northern city. Arden’s work hitherto has
been done at various Adelaide hospitals,
except for visits to New Guinea and to
London for his M.R.C.P.
George Finlay Ashton Mitchell, Col-
lector of Customs for N. S. Wales since
1933, was born at Balranald, N.S.W. ;
got his first job as a clerk with J. Paxton
and Co., shipping brokers, and then
became a schoolteacher. After three
years of that he transferred to the Cus-
toms. His climb was steady: in 1929
G.F. A. MITCHELL.
he was Collector for W.A. ; in 1932
Collector for S.A. He’s 59, married, and
beguiles his leisure moments with golf,
music and gardening.


ds
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
i<St
4?
m
mmM
fsd
fsd
a
lie*
mm
Zm
im
/f/
ilk
YA
r?
m
i
■/A
|||
'/''A'//
7///A
wm
'///.
w/M
V//A
'///,
zm
Z'MZa
Is®
m
tmmm
r
' 1/fl J
L.
IS
Head y
STATE EXPRESS 333 VIRGINIA CIGARETTES (Cork Tipped and Plain) —9-6 d.: 18-1/-: 27-1/6. Also Flat Fifties, Square Hundreds, and Round Air-tight Fifties.
, 8475 F-8-8


ABORIGINALITIES
"Dad, it must be good-oh to he married and 'ear the patter of little feet all round yuh.”
“Ellenvale”: When the son of a neigh-
mpinr pdiwi tn threp m'&hts in
boring cocky called n three nights in
succession and spent the time staring at
the daughter of the house, I could see
that it was a case of view mat., even
though the visitor contributed nothing to
the conversation except a few grudging
monosyllables. He continued to drop
in, and sat, silently worshipping. We
had reached the supper stage one even-
ing when Romeo turned to the girl and
asked abruptly,, “Did you make these
here cakes an’ things?” She admitted it,
and the visitor sank back into his usual
watchful silence. As if ashamed of his
volubility, he said nothing until a week
later, when he demanded of the head of
the family, “How about me marryin’
your Millie?” The flabbergasted father
stammered something about asking Millie
first. Millie giggled and said she didn’t
know. The suitor immediately stood up
and grabbed his hat. “If youse can’t
make up your blessed minds,” he said
sternly, “it’s not much good me hangin’
round any longer.” And that was the
finish of that romance,
“C. G. Sails”: Our shearers’ cook has
no sense of humor. He had been feed-
ing the boys boiled rice instead of por-
ridge for breakfast, rice-pudding for
dinner and again for tea. At breakfast
on the third day Rusty caused an ex-
plosion when he asked if they could
have some rice sent over to the shed for
forenoon lunch. The irony missed fire.
“What!” roared the babbler. “I give
youse rice for breakfast, rice for dinner
and rice for {ea, an’ youse’ve the ’ide
to ask for rice for lunch as well! Blast
yez! I’ll do me job in first.”
* si: sic
“Retrod”: For a versatile bushman
I’ll back old Skewthorpe Martin. As he
greyed around the temples his molars
decreased in number until he was as
toothless as a newborn babe. Un-
daunted, Skewthorpe unearthed an old
aluminium saucepan, and after a week’s
industrious filing produced a score or
more of shining aluminium fangs. Next
came a lump of sugar-bag wax moulded
to form a dental plate. The fangs were
mounted into the wax, a trouser button
added for a suction-plate and all left in
the sun to harden. The resulting set
of false teeth was quite serviceable,
although Skewthorpe complained that he
often left one of his bright metal molars
embedded in a slice of tough buffalo
steak.
“C.G.8.”: Tell “Hanko” (B. 27/7/’3B)
to watch permanent pastures being irri-
gated and he’ll see starlings doing good
work for the farmer. As the water moves
slowly down the bays countless root-
eating “wogs” break for cover and an
irregular line of starlings perform effi-
* ; p
& / * *
Odd sheep that jump through
a ga(eway when being counted out (B.
17/8/’3B) do so from natural reaction
to a psychological inhibition. Though
depending on man for protection, caged-
up jumbucks look on him in much the
same way as bored schoolboys do their
teacher. If LAS. watches fed-up boys
leaving school for a long vacation he 11
witness another exhibition of air-leaping.
Animals experience emotions similar to
the homo genus, and freedom is a thing
°f j°y to all living cieatures.
* * * *
“Knit Tog”: Although I had often
read of pukka sahibs who dressed for
dinner even when miles from civilisation,
I took the yarns with a grain of salt
until I called in for a night’s shelter at
a little selection hut in the Victorian
hills. The elderly occupant invited me
to share his meal of corned beef and
damper, and while as far as the top
portion of his attire went he was dressed
in the approved garb of dinner coat and
boiled shirt the general effect was
marred by the addition of blue denim
trousers and hobnailed boots. He
hastened to assure me that this mixture
of apparel was due to the contingencies
of outback life —he had to dash out
through the scrub each evening to hunt
the wallabies away from a cherished
patch of maize, and the evening kit had
to be modified to a certain extent. The
hut was littered with copies of the
“Sphere” and “Tatler,” and my host
entertained me (between intervals of
wallaby-chasing) with chit-chat of Court
doings, Cochrane’s latest effort and the
like. I found out later that the old
chap’s holding was a veritable sanctuary
for foxes —he refused to molest them in
any way and trespassing hunters were
soon sent to the right-about, b’gad.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: Antonio, a N.Q. navvy,
boasted he had downed 28 beers one
Saturday afternoon. “What does your
wife say to your spending so much on
drink?” I asked. He chuckled quietly.
“De missis? Oh, she laugh an’ say,
‘Oh, veil, you vinn da money.’ ” I won-
dered how many Australian wives would
have struck that note of resignation.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: If “Snake Charmer” ever
goes “sauntering up the Darling” under
the impression it has “a farmhouse at
every mile and a pub at every ten” (B.
24/8/’3B) he’ll wish he’d never left the
West. It’s at least 1000 miles from Went-
worth to Bourke along the river, and if
there’s more than a dozen pubs in that
stretch I’ll shout. The “Charmer’s” rail-
walking habits might be all right; person-
ally I like to see the country when
humpin’ the knot, not walk pigeon-toed
along a steel rail with my eyes glued to
a spot on the rail a few feet in front
of me (which anyone walking a 2in. rail
would have to do to keep balance). Any-
how, in this benighted and effete N.S.W.,
when bagmen find a railway running
their way they don’t bother to walk the
rails; they camp until a train comes
along, jump it and ride in comfort to
their destination. Perhaps that s all one
cou ld expect from blokes so tene y
constant contact with farmhouses an
P UDS - *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide Museum has its
on a croCo( jffe’s head cut in a rock
near y unta (S.A.), by 3ft., and one
man y carvings on Wade’s Panara-
mdtee station. It is valuable not only
as a bni£ specimen of aboriginal art, but
a l so as p re tty strong evidence that the
croc.—it looks like the large North Aus-
tralia type—was at one time familiar as
f ar south as only 200 miles north of
Adelaide. Unless, of course, the artist
had made an unlikely thousand-mile
walkabout and carved from recollection
c f his travels.
* * * * ,
“Big-End”: I would not have believed
“Williami’s” account of the foxxes attacK
on the waterspout (B. 17/8/ 38) nac
not seen one of these dauntless tykes en-
gaged in battle with a porcupine. Porky,
knowing that he had been specially de-
signed by Nature for passive resistance,
just sat still and extended his quills. The
foxie, becoming more and more infuri-
ated by the complete failure of his fiercest
rushes, repeatedly hurled himself against
the enemy. When his master finally
turned up the porcupine was little the
worse for the assault, but the dog, look-
ing like a lump of raw steak, had to be
carried home.
* * * *
“Bangtail”: 1 notice with grief that
Hollywooden phrases are creeping into
the columns of The Bulletin. In a
recent issue one writer referred to “fork-
ing” a horse, a pure Western-fillum ex-
pression and one that writer has never
heard in a long experience of Australian
horsemanship. Yet another refers to a
job of “mustering the beefs.” Sheer
Hollywood again, though I am informed
that in West African pidgin every eatable
unfeathered animal is referred to as a
beef.
* * * *
“Roaring Gimlet”: The ground is a
hard unyielding clay seamed with thou-
sands of cracks down which one might
thrust the hand. With but little pressure
the rough hexagonals thus formed break
off at the base and rock beneath the feet.
Close at hand the eye is dazzled with
myriads of salt crystals. In the near dis-
tance rises an island of white quartz
glistening in the hot sunlight with a radi-
ance that pains the sight. But far away
is repose ; there rolls a wide ocean of
shimmering blue, dotted with enticing
islets and reefs over which the waters
constantly break. Boats, too, are float-
ing on that magic sea, gondolas that
bow and toss with the surge of the waves.
But when we get there we find—only the
same sun-cracked clay and the myriads
of salt crystals. Even the gondolas are
merely half a dozen camels strayed from
a near-by Afghan camp. Beauty where
beauty existeth not: mirage on Goon-
garrie Lake, near to Menzies goldfield,
on the old 90-mile track out from Cool-
gardie.
* * * *
“Toheroa” : Maoriland’s “Drink More
Milk” campaign, whereby the Govern-
ment supplies free milk to schools, had
an unexpected result in some of the big
dairying districts. Asserting that their
lives were bounded by milk, having to
drink, sell and carry it, the youngsters
refused the Government’s offer with
scorn. Orange-juice was hastily sub-
stituted for the revolutionaries.
* * * ’ *
“Gid-dup”: In the wild turmoil of
petrol-driven vehicles and the general
contempt for Dobbin there is one phase
of transport where the horse still holds
his own. At least, he does in W.A., where
large quantities of high-explosive are con-
stantly on the move. Which explains
just one sensation that news addicts have
missed—the motor-truck loaded with a
ton or so of dynamite involved in a road
collision, or perhaps just a little back-
firing. Though there’s a chance that one
of these days some speed maniac will
bump the horse-lorry with its hair-trigger
load.
He % ❖ ♦
“Pitt St.”: The swallow (B. 24/8/’3B)
is a shrewd bird. A foursome golfing at
Moore Park (Sydney) on a recent sunny
morn had a swallow each on the march.
The birds swung backwards and forwards
just in front of the golfers’ shoes, snap-
ping up insects disturbed by their pas-
sage through the grass. It happened on
the fairway of only one hole, the birds
dropping back to meet the next players
as the first lot reached the green. As
they were the only “birdies” seen on the
round, here’s hoping they did well.
“Yarra Ben”: Closer settlement has
upset the bush habits of the magpie. He
has invaded the haunts of the sparrow
and starling. He struts the main streets
of country towns, and does the block in
a walkabout for rations. Alexandra
(Vic.) is a case i.n point. This country
town has an enormous district of small
farms, bare hills and cleared valleys,
watered by the Goulburn River and the
U.T. Creek, with rare groups of trees
growing along the banks. But there are
few sheltered spots or feeding-grounds
suitable for the beautiful warbler. He
comes to town and finds his food in the
gutters and in the pub yards. He sleeps
in the ornamental street trees and starts
his daily round with a chorus sung on
the verandah rails of private homes and
guest-houses. Seven of his family greeted
the breaking day by singing on the hotel
balcony in front of my bedroom door.
When I came out to have a look at them
they all put up their heads and begged
for breakfast. It was an excited gurgling
sound, made in imitation of the swal-
lowing of grubs.
WHEN THE UMPY’S FLOODED
OUT.
Johnny’s sent to get the turkeys that are
roostin’ in the shed,
While young Kate is catchin’ chickens that
come floatin’ past the bed;
An’ we find Mum rousin’ Franky: “Save that
hen, you lazy lout!”
Yes, there’s roarin’ done a-plenty when the
’umpy’s flooded out.
An’ the linos an’ the carpets that have stood
the test for years
All get hoisted up to safety while poor Mum is
wipin’ tears.
But the Stetson Dad had purchased just a week
before the drought,
With his shoes, is noticed missing when the
’umpy’s flooded out.
When the water has receded to a narrow little
stream,
Then the mud that’s on the footwear causes
Mum to let off steam.
But the heaps of silt an’ rubbish by the window
just without
Are the biggest flamin’ nuisance when the
’umpy’s flooded out.
Now the few white Leghorn chickens that were
all the pride o’ Mum’s
In the meantime are discovered by a breeze
that kind of ’urns.
An’ you notice when this happens Dad is crook
an’ has the gout,
For the kids do all the diggin’ when the ’umpy’s
flooded out.
Oh, these floods that happen often in the years
that come an’ go
Never worry people settled well away from
where they flow.
So if e’er they crave excitement or would like
to see a “bout”
Then they ought t’ join the fam’ly when the
’umpy’s flooded out.
N.S.W.
HERB MURPHY.


“Wang”: “I was workin’ fer a cocky
one time,” said Dan, “when one day we
hears a commotion in the fowlyard. We
hurries down t’ see what it’s about.
Lumme! We got the shock of our lives.
There’s all the fowls, sorta hysterical,
standin’ in a big ring, an’ in the centre
is about a dozen day-old chicks. One
fat little bloke is lyin’ on his back,
holdin’ another chick on each of his
feet, while two more is balancin’ on
them by their beaks. Another chick’s
hangin’ be his claws from a tree, while
a coupla others is twistin’ themselves
round an’ round a twig like Cath’rine
wheels. Another cove’s balancin’ on
a china egg as he rolls it along. The
ole mother hen’s squattin’ in a corner
proudly watchin’ ’em. The cocky sud-
denly lets out a yell. ‘I know what it’s
all about,’ he sez. ‘I bought that ole
hen from a circus bloke who wus givin’
up bizness a coupla months ago. She
must’ve seen them acrobat blokes per-
formin’, an’ them chicks she’s ’atched
out is sufferin’ from that there pre-natal
influence y’ read about!’”
*.* * *
“Formic”: The most perfect stinger I
know is a little black wasp in N.Q.
Rather smaller than a policeman fly, it
is much more vicious. Although it puts
in about six stings in quick succession
they are scarcely felt at the time. About
an hour later the affected part begins to
itch; half a day later it becomes annoy-
ing ; next morning it is an irritating rash ;
by the end of 36 hours it has spread over
the whole body, making a man feel as if
he’d been belted with strands of barbed
wire. At the other end of the scale I
“Hold tight while I try it no hands!”
2“You may take a rest , Miss Jones.”
place the green tree-ant, which, striking
quickly, leaves a sting like red-hot needles.
So tenacious are these pests that a man
has to pull them apart to make ’em let
go ; and when they’ve been prized from
the probe the pain ceases as suddenly as
it began.
* * ■* *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Curious how the bush
legend persists that the wood of trees
struck by lightning will not burn. Last
year a flash saved me the risky and
troublesome job of taking down a big
long-dead bloodwood whose limbs were
getting dangerous in windy weather, and
in a fraction of a second provided several
cords of split stove-lengths and kindling.
Old Joe insisted that it was waste of
time to cart it in, but all this winter it
has kept us going in first-rate firewood
—Joe, too, after protest. The founda-
tion of the furphy is that, when a green
tree is struck and shattered, the resulting
debris soon comes to look like dry,
seasoned stuff, although it is still sappy
inside and burns badly, if at all. Stack
it a season or so, and it will burn as well
as any green-cut timber of that particu-
lar species after similar drying out.
*' # * *
“C.Q.”: Who is responsible for nam-
ing plants? Pampas lily-of-the-valley,
Arghel of Syria, Merian’s bugle lily, the
Weld mignonette, the angled allium and
the cluster-flowered vervein have lately
been the subjects of a Government pro-
clamation in Victoria, being anathema
to the noxious-weeds experts. On the
strength of their monikers they are can-
didates for a bridal bouquet or a tribute
to some visiting songstress. On the other
hand, I once invited a leading botanist
and bushlover out to a property of mine
to identify the native shrubs, of which
there was a vast variety. Pointing to a
spiky bush with a lovely little reddish-
yellow bloom all over it, I asked what it
was called. “ ‘Ham ’n’ eggs,’ we call it,”
replied the authority.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Much interested in
“Colonel Bungstarter’s” statement (B.
17/8/’3B) that he found Indian “country-
made beer” the best way to an elephant’s
heart. The liquor is a new one to me, but
I believe India has changed in many
ways since the days when I knew a little
of it. Arrack, in one of its many forms,
was the big fellow’s regulation tipple,
and if he was an army or Government
elephant he drew a regular ration of it.
There is no doubt the elephant is a born
boosician, like all the intelligent mem-
bers of the animal world —the monkeys
and the goats for two widely-separated
examples.
“Pie Dog”: That par. re the elephant’s
partiality for drink recalls a dreadful
experience. I had just been thrown out
of a Native State for trying to collect
taxes with the help of a Bombay firm’s
catalogue and found myself broke to
the wide somewhere in southern Raj-
putana. I had with me a bottle of
aniseed brandy, and had taken the first
grateful suck at it when a large female
elephant appeared from a cane-brake
near by and seized the bottle. Having
emptied this, she took hold of me by the
back of the neck and made it plain that
she expected me to find further supplies.
Her extremely reddened eyes and a very
tremulous trunk convinced me that the
lady was suffering a bad recovery. The
story of the next week is a nightmare.
At first I tried climbing the mowha trees
and throwing her the great blossoms,
which are mildly intoxicating. These
did not satisfy her, and, of course, I
had to descend sooner or later for what
food I could find. Then I found an
abandoned pot and, filling it with water,
made a powerful infusion of mowha
flowers on a fire started with a brand
from a native woodman’s fire. When
this had fermented it was greatly
appreciated by the elephant, who, how-
ever, when she fell into the deep slumber
I had anticipated, carefully curled her
trunk about me. The mowha trees
ceasing to flower, her temper and my
situation became threatening. It was
then, like a fool, I began climbing the
toddy palms and getting the lady her
comforts that way. One day relief came
in the most unexpected form. A
handsome young wild bull appeared
on the scene, and my protectress, re-
leasing the tail of my shirt, from which
she never parted save when I was climb-
ing trees, rushed to meet him. Seizing
my chance, I fled in the opposite direc-
tion and so ended a painful episode.
* :» 0
“Tired Tim”: Sida rhombifolia, alias
Sida retusa, is an interesting weed which
has failed to sustain an ill repute ac-
quired at a time when introduced pests
were masquerading as innocents abroad.
Chew the sap from a few of the leaves
and you have Binghi’s corrective for
diarrhoea. An early curator of the Bris-
bane Botanic Gardens, the late Walter
Hill, imported machinery with a view to
utilising the fibre of the stem. Little
bush boys and girls run home to dinner
when the flower opes its golden eye punc-
tually at noon.
* * * *
“T. Getter”: But has ironbark lost its
reputation for durability (B. 24/8/’38)?
Tune in to George Pocock, oar- and
shell-maker in “Saturday Evening Post”:
“At the last Olympics, Ernie Barry, Eng-
land’s old world-champion sculler, visited
our quarters. Behind him were 45 years
of racing experience. He took up an
oar and studied the square-tipped, ribbed
blade. He noticed the strip of Austra-
lian ironbark on the compression side.
Ironbark is the nearest approach in plant
structure to metal. Barry insisted that he
test the oar. His conclusion was that the
new implement not only was extremely
light, but the strip of ironbark gave it a
tremendous kick. In the recent building
season, every rowing school in the U.S.A.
secured at least one set of these new
oars.” Pocock claims that his oar, which
is built up with five thicknesses of Wash-
ington spruce reinforced with ironwood
(ironbark) will neither chip nor split,
and is lighter, stronger and cheaper than
other blades.
THE BULLOCKY’S LAMENT.
“It’s a fact,” said old “Snig-’em-out” Charlie,
and reached out a paw for his drink,
“That for just on a fortnight or longer I ain't
’ad no sleep—not a wink!
It’s because I’ve lorst Baldy, me leader; me life’s
been chucked clean out o’ gear,
For that bullick o’ mine was a corker” —and
Charlie stared glum in his beer.
I remarked that affection was touching when
shown by a man for his beast;
It proved to the hard and the scoffers that some
men were grateful at least.
Charlie stared just as if I’d gone mad. “Wot
the ’ell are yer maggin’ about?
Why, the blankard was lazy an’ cranky. I’ve
given ’im many a clout.
“’E ’ad only one‘point, this ’ere Baldy; ’e did
’elp me git a good snooze.
Yair, ’e come in dead ’andy at times when I’d
swallered a skinful o’ booze.
I’m camped down the gully one time, when up
comes a helluva storm —
I lorst all me blankets and, strike me! that
night I just couldn’t git warm.
“Then I thinks o’ them warm, ’airy bullicks, an’
that sorta gives me a ’unch,
So I dosses between Trim an’ Baldy, the quietest
ones o’ the bunch.
1 got warm, right enough, but, so ’elp me, I
can’t git to sleep, for their nibs
Both breathed out together, an’, blimey! they
blanky near fractured me ribs!
“But old Baldy I trained to breathe out when
Trim’s breathing inwards, an’ so
’Tween them ’airy galoots like a ninfant I’m
rocked orf to bye-bye good-oh.
But the ’abits of years take some breakin’ ”
and Charlie prodigiously sighed—
“ln an ordin’ry bunk I can’t sleep since that
leader o’ mine went an’ died!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Ocean House# 32 Martin Place# Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane,
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:--
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwr.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
w T? Rrvint fChairman) • Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
w* as* g ™* ; *• smcta,t -
,WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 252,346 10 p.c. = 204,995 47,351 1,111,G10
Premiums on new shares, £115,044.. 1,226,654
1929.. 227,106 10 p.e. = 208,102 19,004 1,245,658
1930.. 128,724 5 „ „ 119,682 9,042 1.254.700
1931.. 99.820 4 „ „ 95,745 4,075 1,258,775
To depreciation reserve, £165,044 . . 1,093,731
1932.. 102,699 4 p.c. = 95,745 6,954 1,100.685
1933.. 105,279 4 „ 95,746 9,533 1,110,218
1934.. 148,623 6 „ ~ 143,618 5,005 1,115,223
1935.. 145,675 5 „ „ 119,682 25,993 1,141,216
1936.. 165,277 6 „ „ 143,618 21,659 1,162,875
Provident and guarantee fund, 1
£lO,OOO f 27,027 1,189,902
1937.. 204,836 7 p.c. - 167,809 J
To tax reserve, £25,000 .. •• 1,164,902
To provident and guarantee fund,
£lO,OOO 1,154,902
1938. . 201,836 7 p.c. = 168,000 33,836 1,188,738
Expansion of the business largely offset
the effects of the fall in wool prices last
term. Shortly before the close of
accounts in 1937 the woolbroking busi-
ness of Geo. Hague and Co., Geelong
(Vic.), was welded into the organisation,
and the co. received 36,000 bales —the
figure included a number of new clips —
into its Geelong store last season. In
S. Aus., the co.’s home State, where most
of the business is done, and where two
new branches were opened last term, the
entire clip was 15,757 bales heavier, but
the cheque was £585,066 lighter. In West-
ralia, where the co. has strong and grow-
ing connections, the shrinkage in the clip
was 1825 bales, and in the cheque
£614.617:
r - Adelaide , r Perth
Gross Gross
Bales. Value. Bales. Value.
1935- 263,280 £4,151,232 202.736 £3,539,995
1936- 257,299 4,603,315 150,355 2,884,976
1937- 273,056 4,018,249 148,530 2,270,359
The average per bale for 1937-38 was
£l4 14s. 4d. (down £3 3s. 6d.) S. Aus. and
£l5 ss. 9d. (down £3 18s.) Westralia. The
average for the Commonwealth was £l5
15s. sd. (down £4 18s. 9d.). The season
closed with prices about 30 p.c. below
opening levels.
The co.’s gross earnings from all
sources sprang £33,716:
Paid Gross
Capital. Earnings. Expenses.
1910 .. £300,000 £144,260 £84,738
1920 . . 877,200 462,451 318,476
1930 . . 2,393,640 569,121 440,397
1931 . . 2,393,640 458,686 358,866
:i 932 .. 2,393,640 421,057 318,358
1933 . . 2,393,640 444,737 339,458
1934 . . 2,393,640 513,647 365,024
1935 .. 2,393,640 518,930 373,255
1936 .. 2,393,640 559,282 394,005
1937 2,400,000 641,244 436,408
1938 .. 2.400,000 694,960 493,124
The growth of £56,716 in exes, was due
partly to increased business, partly to a
heavier carry-over, and partly to an extra
£10,978, making £30,258 in all, written
off premises. The declared net result
was a round £3OOO short of the previous
year’s at 8.4 p.c. on capital, as against
8.5, 6.9, 6, 6.2, 4.4, 4.2, 4.1, 5.3 and 10.9
p.c. back to 1929. That leaves out of the
reckoning £25,000 reserved for taxation
for the first time, and a special contribu-
tion of £lO,OOO to the provident fund to
provide more adequate pensions for male
members of the staff. To provide retir-
ing allowances for females on the pay-
roll, the chairman (T. E. Barr Smith)
started a women’s provident fund with a
gift of £lO,OOO from his personal estate.
The co. will supplement this gift with
small annual contributions.
The div. was kept at 7 p.c., making
the average 5.3 p.c. over the last nine
years. For 24 years before that a steady
10 p.c. was paid, sweetened with a bit
extra in the fattest years and with a
number of new share issues, mostly made
at a premium.
Balance-sheet figures reflect a solid
financial structure and all-round expan-
sion of the business:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Deposits, etc. .. £839,143 £831,993 £878,367
Other liabilities.. 1,117,237 1,126,127 1,159,968
Freeholds, plant, etc. 579,007 643,083 674,586
Gov. sec. and cash.. 2,019,899 1,633,306 1,376,731
Advances, etc. .. 3,021.705 3,402,866 3,690,625
Stock . . . . 127,223 151,683 203,908
Shares other cos. 150,842 149,100 152,479
Extensions (to cost £41,000) to the Fre-
mantle store and additions to the Gee-
long warehouses are reflected in a net
growth of £30,903 to fixed assets. The
growth of £287,759 in advances was
mainly on account of new business and
partly on account of the increased carry-
over. Stocks were up £52,225. To meet
the outlay an extra £46,374 of deposits
was gathered, £33,841 was added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors, and
Government securities and cash were
drawn upon for £256,575, reducing them
to £1,376,731, equal to 13s 6s. of every
pound coming to creditors. The remain-
ing £661,604 of liabilities was more than
five times covered by advances alone.
As for the current term, seasonal con-
ditions are satisfactory over most of the
co.’s areas, but wool prices are about
30 p.c. below last season’s opening levels.
Still, “there is undoubtedly a feeling that
conditions are likely to gradually im-
prove, provided there is no major dis-
turbance in the international field,” the
chairman says. He further added: —■
On the occasion of our centenary at the
end of the next year, which we expect to
celebrate by the occupation of our new
head office, your board would have been
glad had it seemed possible to make a
, gesture by payment of additional dividend
or bonus to shareholders to mark the event,
but with the cost of buildings which it has
been necessary to undertake, and the
general uncertainty of the world outlook,
we cannot anticipate that the current year’s
operations will show this as practicable.
At £8 Is. (£9 os. 6d. a year ago) the
£lO shares paid to £6 return 5.2 p.c. on
a 7 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible cover
is £8 19s. sd.
W. R. Carpenter and Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 34,911 8 p.c. = 18,407 16,584 68,584
1929.. 43,534 8 „ „ 21,367 21,867 90,451
Endowment account, £l5OO .. .. 88,951
1930.. 43,680 8 p.c. = 23,866 19,514 108,765
1931.. 37,713 S „ „ 24,133 13,580 122,345
Inner reserves disclosed, £86,000 .. 208,346
1932.. 33,631 8 p.c. = 24,133 9,498 217,843
1933.. 34,105 8 „ „ 24,133 9,972 227,815
1934.. 36,391 8 „ „ 24,133 12,258 240,073
Renewal reserve disappears, £28,075. . 211,998
193.3.. 43,685 10 p.e. = 39,000 4,085 210,083
Investment reserve disappears, £ 10,00.0.. 206,083
’.936.. 68,079 8 p.c. = 47,362 20,717 226,800
Superannuation fund, £2500 .. .. 224,300
Tq inner reserves, £19,469 . . .. 204,831
Share premiums. £10,375 . . . . 215,206
1937.. 100,585 9 p.e. = 60,616 39,969 255,175
Superannuation fund, £3OOO .. . . 252,175
To inner reserves, £30,535 . . . • 221,640
Share premiums, £61,250 •• •• 282,890
Written off investments, £61,250 . . 221,640
1938. . 111,373 10 p.e. = 74,000 37,373 259,013
Superannuation fund, £2OOO .. . . 257,013
To inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. .. 247,013
It was in 1914 that the Carpenters laid
the foundations of their now solidly-
entrenched island-trading organisation
with world-wide connections. The post-
war boom, development of the Man-
dated Territory and New Guinea and
the recent upward surge of trade, follow-
ing slump, provided opportunities of
which the board made the most. Further,
there has been more wheat in the ear
than the eye could see, and the chair-
man now assures shareholders that:- —
The co. is engaged in so many different
branches of activity that the management
can look with a certain degree of calmness
upon any vicissitudes in the market The
co. to-day does not look for revenue from
the purchase of copra. It has for the past
few years regarded copra as merely a
medium of exchange, so that the rise or
fall in the commodity does not materially
reflect upon the earnings of the co
Of the capital, nearly one-quarter of a
million has been inoperative. This has been
used in acquiring new tonnage, entering
heavily upon aviation and in planting up
new estates. Portion of this capital will
become operative in the coming year, and
the balance a few years later.
They are comforting assurances, which
make the scrip worth consideration,
especially as a long-term investment.
The outstanding feature of recent years
has been rapid expansion of the busi-
ness, by absorptions and otherwise. Of the
£740,000 of capital £438,233 (59.3 p.c.)
has been issued since the close of ac-
counts in 1933. The new capital, to-
gether with £71,625 of share premiums
and an extra £131,958 added to liabili-
ties, has been used mainly in establishing
the co.’s own shipping service from Aus-
tralia and the South Sea Islands to
America and Britain —two 9000-ton ves-
sels were bought, and another, s.s. Suva,
will take up the running about the end
of this month —to increase the co.’s aerial
fleet, buy the shares in On Chong and
Co., Gilbert Islands, and acquire the
assets of Cocoanut Plantations, Ltd., in-
cluding plantations and a desiccated-
coconut factory The 100,000 £1 prefs.
in W. R. Carpenter (Solomon Islands),
Ltd., in which the parent owns all the
£150,000 of ord. capital, were also
bought, and so were the ords. in Brown
and Joske, Fiji (paid capital £69,440 in
20,000 7 p.c. prefs. and 49,440 ords.).
To make insurance a family matter, an-
other offshoot, Southern Pacific Insur-
ance, was formed, and has paid 6 p.c.
for the last couple of years, and a con-
trolling interest was bought in Bulolo
Hotel, Ltd., and Wau Hotel, Ltd., on the
New Guinea goldfields.
Last term the overseas shipping sec-
tion of the business was handed to a new
subsidiary, W. R. Carpenter Oversea
Shipping, Ltd., in which the parent holds
all the £210,000 of paid capital; a new
5000-acre plantation was bought; and a
new air service between Sydney and New
Guinea was inaugurated at the end of
May, and a Government subsidy has
been granted. This air service competes
with an unsubsidised line which pioneered
the route as far as Townsville The growth
in capital account was £66,500 —£50,000
of it brought with it £61,250 of share
premiums, which were used to write down
the book value of investments:
1931. 1934. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £301,667 £339,789 £673,500 £740,000
Liabilities .. 7,333 18,071 104,287 139,291
Shipping property 16,075 28,155 \ ~, ...
Freeholds, plant, etc. 750 505 j si7 ’ 7bl
Investments, etc. 118,114 140,618 393,100 497,264
Stocks .. 1,238 15 101,612 125,941
Debtors, etc... 261,774 440,707 168,955 169,487
Cash, etc. .. 45,460 55,210 9,102
The net addition to the book value of
freeholds, plant, etc., was £25,749,
and to investments (shares in 15 sub-
sidiaries) £104,164. The growth in
stocks was £24,329. To meet the out-
lay the new capital and share premiums
were supplemented by an extra £35,004
from sundry creditors, and cash, etc.,
w T as drawn upon for £46,108. Excluding
investments, more or less liquids exceeded
liabilities by £165,239 (down £56,251)
when the books closed.
Although quarter of a million of capi-
tal was inoperative, declared net earn-
ings were £10,790 better at 15 p.c. on
capital as it now stands, compared with
14.9, 11.5, 11.4, 12, 11.3 and 11.1 p.c.
back to 1932. The div. was lifted a point,
making it 10 p.c. Of the £37,373 that
remained, £2OOO was sent to the super-
annuation fund, and £lO,OOO was whisked
away to inner reserves, leaving the visible
lay-by at £247,013.
The co. intends to issue a further
100,000 new £1 shares at par at an early
date, approximately in the proportion of
two for 15. When all the money on
this new issue is in, paid capital will be
£840,000, on which 10 p.c. will call for
£27,373 less profit than was claimed last
term. The market prices the scrip at
465., • equal to 435. 5d., after exercis-
ing the rights and allowing for broker-
age. The return at 435. sd. is 4.6 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. On the same
basis the rights should be worth around
21s. Including the new issue, the net
tangible cover is visibly 255. lid.
Berlei, Ltd.
, Dividends———,
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 17,165 2635 10 p.e. = 12,382 2148 28.096
1939.. 16.095 2635 10 „ „ 12,479 1481 29.577
1930.. 13,064 3712 7i „ „ 9,361 29,568
U.S.A. rights sold; intangibles reduced,
£1965 31,633
1931.. 17,629 4000 71 p.c. = 9,361 4268 35,801
Unexplained additions to reserves, £2300.. 38,101
1932.. 15,650 4000 8 p.c. = 9,985 1605 39,766
Unexplained reductions, £2300 .. .. 37,466
1933.. 14,675 4000 8 p.c. =10,352 323 37,789
Unexplained additions to reserves, £1500.. 39,289
1934.. 19,645 4000 8 p.c. =11,005 4640 43,929
1935.. 19,245 4000 8 „ „ 11,005 4240 48,169
Bonus scrip M.L. subsidiary, £2560 .. 50,729
1936.. 25,182 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 7426 58,155
1937.. 25,463 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 7707 65,862
1938.. 26,282 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 8526 74,388
This 29-year-old and its two Subsidiaries
—there is one in Maoriland, which set
up in 1923, and another in Vic., where
manufacture began in 1927—have given
a very good account of themselves. They
now supply most of the women of Aus-
tralia and the Dominion with their corset
and brassiere requirements. Another off-
shoot, Berlei (U.K.), Ltd., which was .
formed in London about the end of 1929.
has made good technical progress, but
has not yet contributed to the pool. Also,
a year or so ago, the enterprising board
extended business to S. Africa and, in
a smaller way, to southern Asia.
Although slump interrupted a flow of
10 p.c. divs., the average for the nine
years to the close of last accounts was
8.5 p.c., the lowest being 7.5 p.c., which
suggests that the co. has a wide good-
will, of which no account is taken in the
books. Tariff and exchange adjustments
provided the management with fresh
opportunities, of which it appears to have
made the most. As conditions improved
sales increased, unit costs were reduced,
earnings benefited and selling prices were
lowered.
In their latest report the directors give
no hint as to how the co. has fared in
Africa and Asia. Business generally,
however, is reported “well maintained.”
Costs increased, on account of the lift
in wages and rise in raw material prices,
the full effects of which have not yet
been felt. After providing for taxation
and other contingencies, including £1172
for depreciation, and handing the staff
£2388 in profit-sharing divs., declared
net earnings advanced £Bl9, reaching
£26,282, the best yet. It was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 15.9 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 15.3, 15.1, 11,
11.3, 8.2, 8.7, 10.9 and 7.4 p.c. back
to 1930. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.
Though the immediate outlook sug-
gests that trade generally will lose some
of its recent buoyancy, and costs are
still rising (the lift has been steeper in
Maoriland than Australia), prospects of
the 10 p.c. div. being repeated during the
current term seem bright enough.
There has been little fluctuation in the
price of the fully-paid ords. in the
market. At 40s. they return 5 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. On the same basis
the lOs.-paid contribs. yield 4.7 p.c. The
prefs. at 31s. return 5.1 p.c., and last
year’s net earnings more than six times
covered their annual requirements. The
net tangible cover is £5 ss. 9d. prefs. and
30s. 7d. per pound of paid-up ord.
capital.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1933. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £189,824 £190,057 £190,057 £190,057
Overdraft . . 12,474 28,007
Sundry creditors 6,431 9,571 19,238 24,429
Freeholds . . 32,910* 60,863 62,456 62.374
Plant .. 11,182 10,563 9.884 10,383
Investmentsf. . 53,174 80,383 89,043 89.043
Stocks . . 87,517 58,848 71,105 100,938
Book debts . . 48,426 34,680 61,869 60,852
Cash, etc. . . 8,194 9,961 2,149 2,228
* Less mortgage, f Shares in subsidiaries.
To carry an extra £29,833 of stocks (the
co. imports some of its raw materials),
£15,593 was added to the overdraft and
£5191 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors. Debtors’ balances were £lOl7
lighter. Including stocks, the year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£111,522) was £BOB4.


GLOBE TRUST
AND FINANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
CHAIRMANS ADDRESS.
At the annual general meeting of
Globe Trust and Finance Company
Limited, held on August 31 in Sydney, the
chairman of directors, Mr. Douglas G.
Hayman, traversed the activity of the
company during the twelve months
ended June 30, 1938.
The net profit was £3854, equivalent to
16.6 per cent, earnings on the average capital
employed during the year. General reserve
account had been increased by £5OO, and re-
serve for unearned income had been increased
to £6976. The 7 per cent, preference dividend
absorbed £221, and 10 per cent, dividend on
ordinary shares accounted for £2189.
In reply to a shareholder’s suggestion that
dividends should be increased in keeping with
the higher profits earned by the company, the
chairman pointed out that the directors had
adopted a conservative policy of reinvesting
surplus reserves within the company, which pro-
cedure should, in time, prove most beneficial
to shareholders.
The company’s capital and reserves had
almost doubled during the year, and there was
every reason to look forward to next year with
great confidence.
In reply to a shareholder’s question with
regard to the effect of proposed legislation,
Mr. Hayman said that, in his opinion, some
such modifications were long overdue, and that
the proposed legislation should have the effect
of restraining malpractices on the part of a
certain unscrupulous element in the finance
world. He personally would be glad to see
the proposed legislation introduced.
In response to the suggestion of shareholders
that directors’ fees be increased, the chairman,
on behalf of the board, while thanking share-
holders for the suggestion, pointed out that the
directors had substantial share interests, and
were quite satisfied with their return as share-
holders, and that directors’ fees should remain
at thirty-five guineas per annum for each
director as formerly.— Advt.
“QUALCAST”
Australian made
MOTOR
MOWER.
f
16in. cutj
and it
drives as
it cuts.
Price £34/13/-
In Seaport Capital Cities.
Australian made “Qualcast” hand mowers
have captured and now hold the Aus-
tralian market by their efficiency, dura-
bility and cheapness. History is repeat-
ing itself now in regard to the 16in.
“Qualcast” Australian made Motor Motver
Write for particulars to any leading
Hardware Store or direct to the Manu-
facturers :—
QUALCAST (AUST.) PTY., LTD.,
Sunshine Road, West Rootscray,
Melbourne, W.12, Victoria.
m
vm
Wm
Come for
a s P*n in the
vauxhall
7 ALOON - n*
""ifSSB^S
new
25
Wewst
nearer to itg £ ," e * features *„*),***' ?**
Petitive car n Shsh Cost Priced
H iS one fn 9//sh °” r COm -
°v«(, Mrf t.?° ,ures - v ««Mi
?"■ KrO'ouli”?
r—v, «. **» ow
ec °non,y of Spr,n 9'ng o*!* es °«c
££ tS O^ 7~ ,den
‘rA*e\rZ °" f more P TC f **
5 ' equipment (wh" ,9h,i9hts of V ” ° ne
>nc,u d e A d ,Cb Q „ £ U * h °"
e A djustabl e St*« be lisf ed
Steering VV7.ee/,
seaf5 eaf r >u Se r f Si„ 9
tb * « f*W,
suff eve rK fce « fc f from d,Stan <*
™ n 'Pa'tme nfs o" Ver ' Ar mre the «<*>,
‘>ual\ Wo U ° l Metric L"l b ° th
Mirror, G /ov e "°-"ay Sufl y. ,B *e«e»
5. eof ' Assist Loods° X ' C ° ,pefs in f ' V ° nit Y
fought vZ'r d * d s»ken\o r h ° n l
J he Convert, 8- do ° 6e Sf '°P,
6o</ y Sfy/ e . /e C °upe is /ocfe / efc.
l° n *e"ible b ?T red b Y costly ?*"*'* **w
° d is »P you' S6en ob '°ad lV n - bu »t
. you r/rfL *° u, </ never VW>en f/ *e
" ° f "ce fl e ,* n ‘"‘Vf/./ng fcuf P£ * f «*>*
' S " ,ce, y bo/o nce ;°° d 6e , ef ° So/ °°«.
o Perotio n reall * ° nd s PMing J d ° Wn <*
en i°y the s un Y effortless) 9 „ ° m ° fc e this
fitne fe, ox i„ Sce «ery, ' ° nd y°« con
> d ‘ No sl? rfecf Proteci SOn, e
'Produced in t u *' bod Y style I ° from */ie
f °' n, y none ho s \ QUXhoII /inel! ** fce *n
Pf,se 'n fft e m been 0 . Q ' ,£ / cer-
«oZs°! h ? l ' d ° nt ‘- r
OLOEN s ‘■'MlTcd f
the
JS/t-'i*®"* V *<IXHAU
?fle ca7r' o nt 3o year? C f
• e °”'«.™<„ s . Mac
°y««ent PJon
ox
ex dusive
o a
'flexion
.Very
‘AIR CHIEF’ CAR
RADIO. Specially
designed for Vaux-
hall, ‘Air Chief’
features controls to
harmonize and give
a “built-in” appear-
ance an 8 - inch
Dynamic Header
Bar Speaker and
the ‘Acoustinator,’
a device which ob-
tains the best recep-
tion of all pro-
grammes under all
conditions. Ask your
dealer for a demon-
stration.
Consult your local authorised Vauxhall dealers
V 285
Peters’ American Delicacy (Vic.)
Toward-
June, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill, preliminary exes., etc. . . 58,578
1930.. 7,634 Nil ■ — 66,215
1931.. 16,475 Nil 82,690
Profit.
1932.. 3,895 Nil 3895 78,795
Intangibles written off, £38,795 .. 40,000
1933.. 8,668 6 p.c. = 7350 1318 38,682
Reserve for depreciation, etc. ( £19,198,
up £8403), taken in .. .■ 19,484
1934.. 14,225 8 p.c. = 9799 4426 15,058
Added to depreciation reserve; £BlOl . . 6,957
1935.. 9,632 6 p.c. = 7347 2285 4,672
Reserves.
Added sundry reserves, £7017 .. .. 2,345
1936.. 10,164 8 p.c. = 9800 364 2,709
Added sundry reserves, £15,379 .. .. 18,088
1937.. 20,023 9 p.c. = 13,675 6348 24,436
Added sundry reserves, £15,614.. .. 40,050
1938.. 21,793 9 p.c. = 15,078 6715 46,765
Although the co. failed to live up to
the high expectations formed of it at
the start, it has since developed into a
satisfactory dividend-payer, and, subject
to seasonal and other developments,
looks like remaining one. The 200,000
£1 shares offered in 1929 were more than
10 times oversubscribed —investors were
impressed by the success of the parent
co. in Sydney and the quick development
of another offshoot in Brisbane. Before
the co. could get on its feet the boom
burst, and losses instead of profits showed
up for the first two years. The corner
was turned in 1932, when, to clear the
way for payment of divs., lighten the
load of goodwill, etc., and bring the
book value of fixed assets more into line
with fallen values, £82,825 (Bs. in the
£) was lopped off paid capital, reducing
it to £122,505.
A couple of years later a new factory
(the old one taken over with the IXL
ice-cream business at the start had be-
come too small) was set up at Richmond
(Vic.), and, since most of the co.’s trade
is on that side of Melbourne, savings
in delivery and operating costs followed.
Later business was extended to Tas-
mania, where a depot was erected at
Launceston early in the last term.
Earnings have moved in accordance
with seasonal and economic conditions
and the extension of the co.’s field. Dur-
ing the last term an infantile-paralysis
epidemic in both Vic. and Tas. tended
to retard turnover. Still, after providing
for depreciation, taxation and other
contingencies, the board was able to
write net profit £1770 better than the
previous year’s at 13 p.c. on average
capital, compared with 14.2, 8.2, 7.9,
11.6, 7.1 and 2.1 p.c. back to 1932.
That leaves out of the reckoning £15,614
dropped into “reserves for depreciation,
taxation, etc.” (now £71,810), some or
all of which may be provision in excess
of immediate requirements for contin-
gencies. The div. was kept at 9 p.c., and
the £6715 that remained lifted the lay-by
£46,765 in excess of intangibles (£40,000),
not treated as an asset herein.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
1932. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £204,708 £122,505 £167,080 £167,415
Sundry creditors 2,161 25,703 10,227 33,437
Freeholds .. 34,973 58,746 102,394 121,445
Plant .. 118,162 65,215 102,577 126,687
Stocks .. 4,804 2,859 6,607 5,912
Book debts .. 2,528 2,087 2,203 6,934
Cash, etc. . . 1,323 18,302 1,636 1,714
The addition of £19,051 to freeholds and
of £24,110 to plant reflects the extension
to Tasmania. To finance the outlay the
board went outside for an extra £23,210,
raising the debt £18,877 in excess of more
or less liquids when the books closed.
Fixed assets are reported “in condition
to provide long and efficient service” ;
and much depends upon that.
The £167,415 of capital is in 371,572
12s. shares, of which 94,500 are fully
paid and the balance are called to Bs.
each. At 21s. the fully-paids return 5.1
p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. On the same
basis the contribs., at 13s. 9d., yield 5.2
p.c. The net tangible cover is 255. 7d.
per £1 of paid capital.
Forestry Bonds
On August 30 the Bondholders’ In-
corporation Commission gave formal
approval to the final agreement between
N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd. (it planted
170,000-odd acres in Maoriland with
Pinus radiata, etc., on behalf of about
75,000 bondholders), and N.Z. Forest
Products, Ltd. (formed on behalf of
bondholders to maintain and market the
forests).
Under the agreement the Perpetual
co. will transfer to the Products
co. cash, investments and other assets
aggregating in round figures £1,300,000.
This, of course, is in addition to the
planted forests themselves. Of the
£1,300,000 about £600,000 is already held
in cash and liquid securities by Austra-
lasian Forestry Bondholders’ Trust Co.,
Ltd., which up to the present has acted as
trustee for the bondholders. The balance
of about £700,000 will be paid over by
N.Z. Perpetual in cash and other liquid
investments, and also buildings, plant,
unplanted land, etc. Altogether there
will be approximately £1,000,000 avail-
able for the use of the Products co. in
cash or easily-realisable assets.
As a result of the settlement, N.Z. Per-
petual will receive a complete discharge
from all obligations to bondholders, and
the Products co. will take complete con-
trol of the forests with what looks like
more than sufficient funds for ordinary
maintenance and development work.
This marks the end of the first stage
of operations, which began 15 years ago
with the formation of N.Z Perpetual
Forests,' which undertook, in effect, to
establish softwood forests in Maoriland
and maintain them for periods of up to
20 years. The growth and condition of
the forests are better than was antici-
pated.
Within the next two or three weeks
the Products co. will issue its annual
report for 1938, and it is expected that
the directors will indicate the steps being
taken to prepare for realisation of the
forests. Meanwhile the commission will
proceed to formulate a plan of classi-
fication and valuation of the shares on
(Continued on next page.)


the SECURITY of
ASSURED INCOME
An interest-bearing deposit with the Bank of New
South Wales carries with it the comfort and security
of an assured income. Further, it does not fluctuate
in value, the full amount deposited being repayable
at the due date.
Interest is paid half yearly during the period for which
the money is lodged, at the rate ruling at the time
the deposit is made. The Bank makes no charges
of any kind.
Deposits of £5 and upwards are accepted by the
Bank's Branches in Australia, and the rates of
interest at present are- —
per annum for 24 months
~ ~ ~ 12 months
~ ~ ~ 6 months
~ ~ ~ 3 months
BANK
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
3%
2J%
2i%
2%
390 C. 1938
m
a
&
X'
\ - x
Take one minute now to sign
an application for life assur-
ance with the Equitable Pro-
bate and General Insurance
Co., Ltd. You will save your
wife and family many years
of hardship should you be
taken from them.
BE PROTECTED
EQUITABLE
PROBATE AND
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
V\ mgcllo House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House. Collins Street, Blelbourne.
R V. PERKINS, General Manager.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
• * * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sidney.— Advt.
% ♦ ♦ /
Wasted heat costs you money! Have all boilers
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free copy of our latest General
Catalogue.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
'Phone: 311787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
the most equitable basis for the purpose
of placing the different classes on a fair
relative footing. At present those who
held bonds in N.Z. Perpetual now hold
one £3O share in Forest Products, Ltd.,
for each bond previously held. It is obvi-
ous that shares which represent early
plantings, say 1926-27, are now more
valuable than those which represent later
plantings, say 1935-36, the difference in
value being represented by years of tree-
growth standing to the credit of the
earlier issues.
• "
Kuala Kampar Tin Fields, Ltd.
Now in the Anglo-Oriental stable, this
is the co. that, in 1928 in exchange for
£585 000 of its own scrip, took over the
old Kuala Kampar, Malim Nawar South
and Tanjong Tualing cos. and their
three bucket-dredges one was dis-
posed of in 1937 for £28,000 ; the two
remaining plants have a digging capacity
of 570,000 c.y. monthly. The properties
are in the Kinta Valley (F.M.S.). Check-
boring in 1936 increased estimates of
yardage by one-third, but reduced aver-
age values by one-half. At March 31
last 1638 acres remained to be dug,
containing in the vicinity of 204,000,000
c.y., averaging 0.421 b. t.o. down to 90ft.
Below that depth an additional 25,000,000
c y of 0 741 b. wash has been proved.
The co. is equipped for large-scale,
low-cost production, and the wash is
easy-dredging and free from obstructions,
with ample water available. Four years’
financial results:-
y.ar to i — Surplus —-x—Dividend—,
Mar., Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
£ £ £ £
-i n or f 61,705 42,764 18,939 -/4 -/6 29,250
’’" (New bucket-band written oft', £7348.
1936 1171,644 87,068 84,576 i/5 ~/9 43,835
10 o 7 } 165?813 b 79 C ,727 ba 86; 0 86 5 i O /°si i/s 73,125
i Reserve bucket-band, £4500.
1938. . 1 145 > 181 , 7^ 6 , 07 ,. 7 F 5 l 4 rrnn 2 1/_ 58,500
* xnciudiiig e depredation: an £’is,33i, 1935 ; £21,607,
1936 ; £16,244, 1937 ; £15,797, 1938.
Despite better metal prices and more
favorable quota conditions, there was a
slip of £14,512 in the latest result, struck
after writing £15,797 off dredge property,
etc. Divs. were cut back from 12* p.c.
to 10 p.c., and a further £5500 was ear-
marked for new bucket-bands, making
that provision £15,000.
Reduced output influenced the lower
profit: • g
Cubic yards dug 0,173,000 e,864,0'00 6,097,000
T . 0., tons .. 1269.5 H 65.5 1040.7
*j»j. p«r w, „ „ 0 „ 0 . 38
Assayj , p . c 75.4 75.5 75.5
Costs per c.y., #
W ’ ” , “
tion, ton . . £134/2/11 £132/9/7 £l4O/2/1
Singapore av. metallic
tin, ton .. £212/15/6 £207/6/7 £2lB/2/2
* “ ing bucket ~ lme -
No. 1 plant was shut down a month
for extensive essential repairs. Lorn-
bined with higher labor and other
charges, it explains the sharp lift in unit
costs, which, for the first time, include
provision for bucket-line renewal,
The current term has not opened so
promisingly as its predecessor. For the
five months to August the co. has been
in. below-average ground, production
being 275| tons from 2,343,000 c.y., an
average recovery of 0.261 b.
To handle the deeper ground a new
unit, to dig to 130 ft. with 18-c.f. buckets,
and expected to start up around the
middle of 1939, has been ordered. It all
adds to the investment prospects ot the
scrip, which appear to have long-term
possibilities around 17s. 6d. (10s. shares),
Nominal assessment is 14-7 tons t.o.
annually. At March 31 the co. held
£2OB /?L• (£1 7 1 ’ 8 ! 7 .“‘'' i “n
owed £14,110. Obviously the board W.U
not have to gO OUtSlde tO pay tOE the
new dredge.
s .
After years of marking time, Tongkah
Compound No. 3 , an offshoot .ofTong-
gah Compound, N.L., has got its dredge,
a reconstructed unit to dig 120,000
c.y. monthly, into production. First
return (for August) was 35.7 tons t.o.
from 100,000 c.y., or o.Blb. per c.y.;
working surplus was £S26B4—an encour-
aging getaway. The main area, of
15,000,000 c.y., goes lib., but portions
threaten to be difficult to handle. Alto-
gether, there is some 14 years' work
measured up.
* * * *
For the 12 months to the end of
March, London-controlled Gold Ex-
ploration and Finance received £24,272
(up £4291) in interest and divs. Exes,
were £lOOO lighter at £8497, leaving
£15,775 net, which reduced the p. and 1.
debit to £5791. Paid capital is £913,016
in 10s. shares, which is to be written
owing to failure of the Bendigo
venture, in which the co. invested
£289,500. That leaves the co. with in-
terests in a group of more or less promis-
ing properties—Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie,
Cox’s Find, Central Norseman, Victoria
Gold Dredging and Morning Star —from
which it seems likely to receive a reason-
able reward. At the end of June the
cash balance was £140,000, and, apart
from Central Norseman, the co. has
reached the end of major capital expen-
diture on properties in which it is now
interested.
* * * 4=
At March 31, Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie, operating on the Golden Mile
belt (W.A.), had £116,000 cash in
hand after meeting all major outgo of
capital expenditure, including a new
treatment plant now crushing in excess
of 8000 tons monthly. Obviously, the
co. is well equipped for the further
development of its string of properties,
of which the old Iron Duke, Australia
East and Oroya South are at present
receiving most attention. In the first-
named an internal shaft is being sunk
below No. 12 level, and the management
intends connecting up with workings
of the North Kalgurli mihe, which is
opening up a good body of ore at Nos.
13 and 14 levels, close to G.M. of Kal-
goorlie’s boundary. Last year mining
and treatment costs were pulled back
14s. a ton, and further improvement
should be possible in the current term
with the increased tonnages going
through; treatment alone has been re-
duced to 10s. 4d. a ton since the close
of accounts. Ore reserves at 338,100
(up 95,300) tons, averaging 6.6dwt., are
about three years’ supply for the existing
plant. At Lake View South, a sub-
sidiary float, ore reserves have also gone
up—-from 10,400 to 33,600 tons.
* * * *
Downward continuation of the lode at
Cox’s Find (W.A.), in which Western
Mining Corp. holds three-fourths of the
shares and Central Gold the remaining
fourth, is expected to be cut at 400 ft.
any time now. Its intersection and sub-
sequent favorable development there
would, it is estimated, add years to the
life of the property. Accounts of Cen-
tral Gold for the year to June 30 showed
a net profit of £16,307. Two' divs. of
3d. each, together absorbing £lO,OOO,
were paid. At June 30 the co. had £5261
in the bank and was owed £3176 by
Western Mining Corp. Since then an-
other 3d. per share has been sent in.
•i' ¥ f"
Lake View’s contribution to West-
ralia’s gold output for the final quarter
of the financial year ended June 30 was
worth £ A 356,442. This wealth was ex-
tracted from 158,684 tons of ore and
165,686 tons of tailings. Chipped of
working and development expendi-
ture, the surplus was £155,723. Ad-
ditional costs (special development
and capital outlay) aggregated £29,123.
No outstanding results from development
were disclosed during the quarter, the
work done being principally opening up
of known lodes. The 1938 estimate of
ore reserves has gone to London, but is
unlikely to be disclosed until the annual
accounts are issued in November. The
figures will probably show a substantial
increase in tonnage, and little or no
alteration in grade.
* * * *
Response to London-controlled Edju-
dina Consolidated’s offer of 80,000 10
p.c. cumulative £1 prefs. at par was dis-
appointing, and theques have been re-
turned to applicants. The issue was not
underwritten, and the board stated it
wouldn’t proceed to allotment unless
£36,000 was subscribed. It also declared
that if this sum was not raised liquida-
tion would follow.
* * * *
Linden reports a profit of £l3lB for
July from its gold show near Wiluna
(W.A.). Nothing was spent during the
month on development. Last March
the mine was credited by the manager
with £75,000 worth of gold in sight, and
was claimed to be a larger and better
proposition than earlier reports indi-
cated.
* * * *
Migratory Midas Gold Blocks, N.L.,
has returned to N. S. Wales. Dropping
some of its financial bundle at Batlow in
1934-35, it moved to Erlistoun (W.A.)
and dropped some more. It has now
settled near Adelong, and believes that
it has got hold of the makings of a good
thing.
* * * *
A model of the underground workings
of Sons of Gwalia’s big Westralian mine
is at present being shown in Perth. Later
it will be exhibited at the co.’s London
office. Gwalia has the deepest underlay
shaft in Australia. It goes down at a
steep angle for more than three-quarters
of a mile from the surface. Sinking of
an internal shaft from the bottom is
contemplated.
* * * *
Gold production i.n Australia continues
to increase. Here are figures for the
various States for the first half of each
of the last three years:
t Six Months June 30, ,
1930. 1937. 1938.
Ounces. Ounces. Ounces.
N.S.W 20,706 33,874 42.681
Victoria .. .. 52,211 71,923 61,291
Queensland . . 57,528 54,885 69,923
South Australia . . 3,125 2,674 2,131
Westralia . . . . 381,137 471,055 555,538
Tasmania . • • • 7,160 10,32 S 9,859
Northern Territory 3,338 6,276 4,895
Total .. .. 531,205 651',015 746,318
For the 12 months to June 30 Australian
production totalled 1,476,438 fine ounces,
valued at £A 12,759,160, compared with
I, fine ounces, valued at
£A11,282,347 for the preceding 12
months and 873,161 fine ounces, valued
at £A7,088,635, for 1933-34. Production
declined from a record 3,838,029 fine
ounces in 1903 to 421,159 fine ounces
in 1929. Then came depreciation of
currencies and the rise in the paper price
of the metal, and output has continued
to increase since. Mounting costs are
now tending to limit the quantity of
payable ore available.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Lytton: Impossible to say at the moment
what return bondholders are likely to receive.
Nothing approaching prospectus estimates need
be looked for H.G.C.: The co. and others
of its kind are under the shadow of proposed
legislative restriction, and will remain so until
details in this connection are made known.
Subject to this and economic developments, the
scrip appears to be a reasonable spec
J. See B. 17/8/’38... .D.Y.F.: Co. now
absorbed by Associated Newspapers, which pre-
viously held all but a fraction of the shares.
Nothing to worry about in the finances... .Ex-
ecutor: They are a solid lot, and it would be
difficult to find better. Doubtful whether you
would be acting properly to sell now to the
possible detriment of the present beneficiary for
the uncertain benefit of future beneficiaries
W.A.L.: (1) 4,472,332 shares of ss. each. (2)
Property divided into two sections, alluvial and
reefing. (3) Emperor hasn’t published its costs.
G.E.F.: Bloch and Gerber’s prefs. worth
consideration.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of File Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
t/YHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write ]or Jull particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager
Box 140 CC, G.P.0.. SYDNEY. ’
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
jr
iteiliili
;Jilli,, W(b
a?:-'
S;J
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms on]y from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
Vindication.
While holidaying at Kosciusko, he met a
woman with whom he contracted a bigamous
marriage.”— Divorce item.
In other words, he likes to go
For holidays amid the snow,
A nd thinks he’s justified when he’s
Disposed to have a pair of skis.
T. W. N.
•b *b *b *b
“Palmistry is the main art of the gipsy.
—News story.
Well, it’s been handed down to them,
•b *b *l* *b
“1 carried £9OO in my hip pocket.”
—Alimony appeal case.
That’s what you call having a bit of
money behind you.
•b *b *b •t
“It is always the most incompetent member
of a staff who makes the most mischief by
pimping.”—“ S.M.H.” article.
That knocks the old idea on the head
that dud men tell no tales.
.i. »b *b *b
“An Auckland (M.L.) motorist sneezed, caus-
ing his car to run into a hole.”
Now he’ll have to cough up.
•b *b *b *b
“The exhortation ‘Keep your chin up’ as an
antidote for despondency is as applicable to
sport as to life’s serious problems.”
—Tennis writer.
Including boxing?
•b *b *b *b
“Few modern young men experience the thrill
of formally asking a father for his daughter’s
hand.” — Woman’s paper.
Yet, some still get a kick out of it.
“What is more unpleasant
than the sight of a dish of
cold spinach?”
— Correspondent.
Having to eat it.
•b »b *b *b
“Your personality can be
told by the way you wear your
shoes,” says a psychologist.
Tight-laced people are
easily picked.
“Policeman lands on his feet.”
—Paper heading.
Better on his than anyone else’s.
•b »b *b *b
‘ “After the missing mailbag was recovered,
police spent hours putting torn pieces of letters
together.”— News item.
There’s inquisitiveness for you!
•b *b *b *b
“Some babies appear not to like drinking
water.” — “Sunday Sun.”
“Oh, drinking water makes us wild,”
The modern babies coo.
Well, who can blame them when their
dads
Prefer the bottle, too ?
•b *b *b *b
“The secret of beautiful legs.” — Beauty advt.
But does the modern girl make a
secret of ’em?
•b *b *b *b
It was on the third day of Hutton’s
innings that Nextdoor’s kid, invited in
to listen to the wireless, inquired, “Is
this what they call a stay-in strike?”
•b *b *b *b
Welcome!
With warmer days to make her brave,
The surfing girl comes to the main;
Half nude she plunges in the wave —
I’m glad to see her back again.
H. M.
Hints to Cardplayers.
If your hand is poor signify immedi-
ately by saying “Who dealt this tripe?”
Take your time. Try several cards
on a trick until you get the right one.
At frequent intervals ask what are
trumps. This shows you are interested
in the game.
Always trump your partner’s ace;
after all, it is better to err on the side
of safety.
If your partner fails to return your
lead give it to him or her good and
strong. There’s no excuse for such a
player.
Eat toffee while playing —it keeps the
cards from skidding.
When the opportunity affords toss your
cards on the table and say “The rest
are mine.” You can often get away with
it.
If you are losing call for supper to
be served. Then, while supper is in pro-
gress, destroy the score-sheet.
J. F. H.
“ F'r a sheilah like that I'd give up everything !”
“Every unemployed youth should be drafted
into the militia and taught how to shoot,” says
a military writer.
That, at least, would give him an aim
in life.
•b *b *b *b
“What, actually, is ‘a hardboiled lover’?”
— Women’s paper.
A tough egg.
•b *b *b *b
“It must be unpleasant for a spy to know
that he is going to be shot at dawn,” says a
war writer.
On the other hand, he probably
wouldn’t worry if the execution was
fixed for nightfall.
•b *b *b *b
“Feg Murray, the Hollywood cartoonist, en-
deavors to find out the things that the movie
stars have never done.” — Talkie magazine.
Well, for a start most of them have
never acted.
•b *b *b *b
“There was something strange about this
Scotchman who cared nothing about saving
money.”— Extract from short story.
Uncanny, in fact.
•b *b *b *b
“Detectives state that the lie-detector is by
no means infallible.”— News item.
These machines are far from perfect,
Say the men who ought to know.
Still, we’ve never had the courage
Openly to tell ours so.
•b *b *b *b’
Gardening Hints.
“Don’t put too much trust in armchair
gardeners.”— Gardening note.
Armchair gardeners are a menace.
They are generally seedy old pots who
plant themselves in a good chair and
grow furious if you don’t listen.
Most important for good flowering is
the lie of the land. The lie on the seed
packet doesn’t really matter.
Any path can be converted into a
crazy path provided you use the right
mixture. Say, half gallon of stout to
two gallons of beer.
The hardiest annuals we know of are
income-tax returns and a pair of chain-
store socks from the wife at Christmas.
D. McM.
It Seems to Me.
Hell hath no fury like the girl
{Don't twit or tease her, son)
Who does a row of plain when purl
Was what she should have done.
P. O. M. C.
•i* 4* ❖ •I*
“A dog owned by an Adelaide publican
amuses patrons by ‘playing’ the piano.”
—News item.
Is his Bach worse than his bite?
»!* *i*
Some Little-known Facts About
Sweden.
1. —General Knowledge.
Part of Sweden lies in the Arctic Circle.
Consequently, winter prevails for most
of the year. So short are the other
seasons, in fact, that by the time mail-
orders for the latest spring fashions have
been delivered by the Stockholm depart-
ment stores the following winter has be-
gun. This is what makes dresses seen in
photos, of Swedish women appear so
dowdy. In an endeavor to keep abreast
of the fashions, society leaders order
their spring frocks a winter and a half
before.
The shortness of the summer is also
responsible for Sweden’s producing so
many speedy swimmers. They’ve got to
be fast, otherwise they are liable to
become ice-bound half-way along the
Olympic pools on the opening day of
the season. Sweden lost two of its most
promising Olympic divers when Bjoe and
Bjim Biornsen got up early one Sunday
morning to practise (the summer that
year occurred during a week-end). Bjoe
cleaved the. water at the same moment
that Bjim took off from the 60ft. tower.
When Bjim was half-way down, and
before Bjoe emerged, the water froze.
It wasn’t until an hour later that the
tragedy \yas discovered, and, although
they sawed Bjoe out and “staged” him
in a refrigerator, it proved unavailing.
In midwinter there is only about an
hour and 10 minutes of full daylight.
As this occurs concurrently with the
lunch hour, and it takes, with frozen
hands, five minutes to sign on and an-
other five to sign off, little work is pos-
sible. This means a great saving to the
workmen in union dues, wear and tear
on lunch baskets, bowyangs, etc.
The chief industries are ski-jumping,
mountain - climbing, Aurora - Borealis -
watching and living to a great age.
Owing to the bracing climate Sweden
boasts the greatest average length of life
of any country. As a consequence,
apprenticeship to trades does not begin
until a boy has reached 52, and the age
at which civil servants may sleep at home
on a pension instead of at the office on
a salary is fixed by statute at 117.
Sweden has produced many famous
men, scientists mostly. Most famous of
all is Alf Nobel. Visiting England on
one occasion, he was mistaken by a
gossip writer for a celebrated cricketer.
Inspired by this, he dashed back to
Sweden and invented dynamite, which
soon became widely used for blowing
up troop- and ammunition-trains during
wars. In profound gratitude for the use
that the world put his invention to, Alf
set to again and invented the Nobel
Peace Prize, the international irritation
set up by the annual allocation of which
keeps tension at a high pitch, with the
possibility of more wars, which would
in turn mean a greater sale for dynamite.
Another great Swede was Emanuel
Swedenborg, the metaphysician. He was
most remarkable in that he refused to
found a new sect, although at the time
he was pretty hard up. He was also e
scientist, and made a model of a flying-
machine, which was highly successful
except that it wouldn’t fly. Later he
invented a submarine, which wouldn’t
submerge, and a combustion engine that
wouldn’t fire.' As he thereby saved count-
less lives in his generation his name is still
revered in his country.
Yet another was the great Linnaeus,
who, anxious to get a society named after
him, learned to differentiate between
plants and animals.
The great iron mines of Sweden were
discovered by accident. For years the
peasants tried unsuccessfully to use as
fuel the stuff they dug out of the ground,
thinking it was coal, it having been de-
scribed to them by a party of retired
Durham coal-heavers that were touring.
One f day a goat shearer threw what he
called the ashes out the door just as
his wife was coming in. The loud
“bong!” as they connected echoed
* around the Kebnekaise (7005ft.) for two
days. At the inquest it was found (the
coroner was a metal fancier) that it was
iron-ore that was being mistakenly used.
Later it was discovered to be ideal fdr
the manufacture of blunt razor blades,
and an enormous export trade was built
up with Germany. The goat shearer be-
came a hero, and a movement is now on
foot to perpetuate his memory by a
statue made from once-used blades.
There are no tree-fellers in Sweden ;
they aren’t necessary. When a forest is
ready to come down a.n iron-mine is
started beneath it. The miners burrow-
ing under the earth loosen the roots of
the great trees, which can then easily be
pushed over. This, however, can be done
only on very windy days, the trees being
pushed into the wind. This breaks the
fall, which is necessary, otherwise the
trees (some of which grow up to 500ft.
high, or almost half the height of Vic-
torian messmates) would crash through
into the mine.
Agriculture is pursued, though with
some difficulty. As snow thickly covers
the ground for most of the year, seed-
wheat is kept in special freezing cham-
bers at the same temperature as the
ground will be at sowing time. Then
the farmer takes a sounding of the depth
of snow, which is first raked level so
it will be an even depth all over. He
then blows an iron tube about 2in. longer
than the sounding; this is lowered
through the snow until ground-level is
reached and is given a few gentle taps.
A seed is then poured down it. The
whole of the field must be done in the one
day, however, as otherwise a heavy fall
of snow would obliterate the tracks of
what he has already done.
S. W. K.


‘lira • • •
ITOffiEB
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.)- 59 William Street, Melbourne.
($ G/VKuliGJllQ!!^
Melbourne Steam.
Down to 265. 6d. last week, Mel-
bourne Steam returned £5 ss. per
cent, on a 7 p.c. div. basis. A good
return from a high-class stock.
“You want a good yield
but— Y O U C A N’T
AFFORD TO RISK
YOUR CAPITAL.”
\
N
i
K
\. ■; v:
I always recommend clients with
large funds to spread them over as
wide a range of enterprises as pos-
sible. This is difficult for people like
you with only £22, or a few hun-
dred pounds at the most. However,
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
will solve your problem as it has
done that of other small investors.
It gives you- an interest in 20 lead-
ing Australian companies and your
funds are safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees, Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Free Booklet No. 1 is yours on
request to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS
PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028V.V., G.P.O.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Docker’s Bankruptcy
The unhappy affair of Keith Brougham
Docker, a sharebroker who was sus-
pended by Sydney Stock Exchange in
1936, brought further unhappiness to
the E., S. and A. Bank last week. Lukin,
J., gave judgment in favor of the official
receiver in a case brought by that officer
claiming moneys, scrip and p.ns. handed
over and paid to the E., S. and A. Bank
before the sequestration of Docker’s
estate late in 1936.
The bank, between August 11, 1936,
and the date of sequestration, had ad-
vanced Docker £233,954. August 11 was
settled by his Honor as the date on
which Docker committed an act of
bankruptcy. Thereafter, said his Honor
in judgment, the evidence showed that
the bank, by deliberate action and with
full knowledge of the debtor’s insol-
vency, had carried Docker’s business on
with the express purpose of enabling it
to collect for its exclusive benefit as
much of the remaining assets of the
bankrupt, including debts due to him, as
was possible, without the slightest regard
for other creditors or without proper
consultation with them. As to this,
1 declare that no equitable assignment of
debts due to the bankrupt was made by
him in favor of the bank
That the bank advanced to the bankrupt
after the commencement of the bankruptcy
the sum of £233,953 19s. 6d., and that such
advances became the property, of the trus-
tee, and 1 order that the bank- pay or
account to the trustee for such amount.
That the bankrupt, by accepting such
advances, incurred a debt to the bank; and
the bank is entitled at law to prove in the
estate for such amount.
That the bank is not entitled to claim the
benefit of any set-off or mutual credit from
August 11, 1936, onwards.
That the trustee is entitled to receive
from the bank, and I order that the bank
pay, or account for, the amounts found
to be voidable preferences in this judgment,
and, on compliance herewith, declare the
bank to be entitled to prove in the estate
lor the amount so paid or accounted for.
That the bank is not entitled to claim
as a security any property lodged by the
bankrupt as such on or after August 11,
1936, and I order that the bank do pay over
or account for the proceeds thereof to the
trustee, and, on compliance with this order,
declare the bank to be entitled to prove in
the bankrupt estate for the amount so paid
or accounted for.
Continuing, his Honor said, “I am of
opinion that the contention of the bank
that it held an equitable assignment over
the book-debts of the bankrupt cannot
be upheld.”
The bankrupt, on his own behalf, and
on behalf of some of his clients, plunged
into large speculations in mining and other
scrip. The bankrupt “carried’’ some of his
clients, and had in consequence to provide
for differences consequent on the serious
fall in values of shares in September and
October, 1935, and at various times there-
after. He does, not appear to have made, at
any subsequent time,' full recovery from that
plunge. He overdrew his. overdraft limit
considerably. The bank allowed him to do
so, and the bank in consequence got into
financial difficulty and trouble with him.
Furthermore, the Judge said the facts
showed that Docker was out of order
late in 1935 ; that he had far exceeded
his authorised overdraft; and that the
bank’s N.S.W. resident inspector, in Feb.,
1936, believed that the bankrupt had
indulged in a gigantic gamble which
failed.
The circumstances led to the inference
that the bank knew, or had reason to sus-
pect, the debtor was unable to pay his
debts as they became due, and the effect
of each of his payments to the bank would
be to give the bank a preference or advan-
tage over the other creditors.
In regard to the voidable preferences, the
respondent bank did not act in good
faith. It is surely the essence of fair play
that creditors of a debtor’s insolvency
“ Listen , mister! I'd like a suit of clothes and a hat in the latest shade
of blue."
should - consult with their fellow-creditors
before enabling him to carry on.
The position as defined by the Judge
now is that the E., S. and A. Bank can
claim as an ordinary creditor for
£233,954, but that all assets acquired by
Docker after Aug. 11, 1936, belong to
the bankrupt’s estate. After the date
mentioned, “every payment of money,
every transfer of property made by the
bankrupt, was an alienation of property
that belonged not to him but to his
trustee. Every such transaction was
therefore liable to be set aside.
By bringing more assets into the com-
mon pool, the effect of the judgment is
that ordinary creditors in Docker's estate
now stand to get better treatment.
In the year to June 30 last Broken
Hill South paid divs. of £640,000,
£237,499 more than the profit claimed.
Over the two-year period from July 1,
1936, to June 30, 1938, £1,170,817 of
profit was disclosed and £1,200,000 was
paid in divs. Distribution for 1937-38
represented 80 p.c. on capital; the first
div. for 1938-39 has dropped to the rate
of 40 p.c. p.a. South’s financial policy
is difficult for some investors to under-
stand. These figures don’t help:
B.H. South.
Lead, Spelter, Mining Other
June 30, Ton. Ton. Profit. Profit.
1936 .. £l6/4/5 £l5/3/11 £387,747 £98,450
1937 .. 23/2/8 20/2/1 664,803 103,513
1938 .. 17/9/6 16/13/4 276,159 126,342
In the year to 30/6/’36 profit from
mining was shown at £387,747. In that
term both lead and spelter averaged
at least £1 sterling a ton below the
average for the year to 30/6/’3B. Yet
in this latter term, in spite of higher
metal prices, mining profit was down
£111,588 compared with the period
ended two years earlier. Most people
aren’t aware , that the South and most
other Barrier mines accumulated large
stocks of lead during the slump, and
that profits of recent years have been
helped by the sale of these stocks. In
1935-36, for instance, 11,078 tons was
sold by South out of stock, 7596 tons
in 1936-37. At July 1, 1937, South had
11,221 tons of lead left on hand. It
is. quite possible that South’s figures in
the latest year didn’t get so. much help
from sales of past years’ production.
Nevertheless, its figures, particularly as
regards div. distributions, have puzzled
many. In point of fact, South has a
big wad of liquids on hand, and can
afford to hand out profits up to the full
extent disclosed. But the co. shouldn’t
be judged as'a mining investment on
the basis of present divs. alone. Future
of the mine is the important thing.
# * * *
The Dow-Jones index of Wall-street
share prices was unsteady for the greater
part of last week, and with war almost
guaranteed by some of. the daily news-
papers there was little life in Australian
’Change dealings. In fact, last week was
one of the quietest for months. How-
ever, no one had declared war up to the
week-end, though some investors felt
they’d like to. The wool sales opened
quietly, but with fairly good clearances.
Wheat kept very weak, and is having a
depressing effect on the business mind.
Fortunately, a good growing season
seems assured.
* #..-■* *
G A. Jaques, Sydney solicitor and
chairman of Australian Securities, seems
to think along lines similar to The
Bulletin. In B. 6/7/’3B the Australian
sharemarket’s enslavement to the Dow-
Jones index of New York share prices
was mentioned and it was said that
It all tends to make us believe that the
habit credited to Australians of gambling
on flies crawling up a wall has ceased to be
a joke and has become a national instinct.
Last week Mr. Jaques referred to a
recent report that Wall-street prices had
suffered because of the midsummer holi-
day spirit produced by the heat in New
York. And, Dow-Jones being down as
a consequence, “good Australian shares
had a relapse simply because it was hot
in New York,” said Mr. Jaques. A good
summing-up of the position it was, too.
Professor Hytten, of the 8.N.5.W.,
has also been drawn in:
It is a silly thing to follow $m index
the way Dow-Jones has been followed.
It is like following the mob.
Probably there are some who have made
money out of it, but more probably there
are a lot of followers who have lost money.
The Dow-Jones index is good for one
thing—it shows what American investors
are doing. There is an old war-time ditty
that fifty million Frenchmen can’t be wrong.
Experience has shown that millions of
American investors can be very wrong. No
one suffers more from nerves than a Wall-
street speculator.
So something new will have lo be thought
up to revive speculative interest.
■** * *
The 8 p.c. prefs. in George Farmer,
Ltd., Ballarat bacon-curers, were picked
here at 18s. 6d. some months ago.
Though the 8 p.c. div. (£4800) was paid
for 1936-37, profits were less than £2OO,
and reserves had to be drawn on for
most of the div. In the year to June
30, 1938, net earnings have shown en-
couraging recovery,
rising to £4973, and
covering the years
pref. div. charge.
Though the ords. had
to go without for the
third year in succes-
sion, market support
pushed the prefs. to
above par once again.
The co. has to con-
tend with high prices
when it buys its pigs,
and price-cutting when
it sells the bacon.
Last term it managed
to maintain its turn-
over and increase its
profit notwithstanding
these and other
troubles, notably in-
creased wage awards. The co. has very
comfortable finances.


Instant Ignition
Greater Power
Output
rt
w
Sri
PYROX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
1/3/37
5/- Each.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; Sir WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
Look to the future when
you buy a tractor!
Fordson is the ideal tractor for the farmer
who buys on terms from income and is depen-
dant on seasonal conditions and fluctuating
prices for primary products. Fordson is a safe
investment because the initial capital outlay
is small and payments, spread over two years,
present no difficulty, even should crops be
poor and markets erratic.
The purchase price of the Fordson is
so far below that of tractors using low
.grade fuel that this cash saving alone
will buy sufficient power kerosene to
operate for 4,000 hours.
Furthermore, the Fordson is an "all-year-
round" worker: suitable for ploughing, culti-
vating, harvesting, belt work and irrigation. It
will haul a 10-12 disc sundercut, a 16 tooth
combine or a 10 foot header with power take-
off, and is rugged and simple in construction
—built to give years of service. The Fordson
Dealer near you will gladly arrange a demon-
stration on your own property. Get in touch
with him.
THE ENGLISH TRACTOR <
N
M
j
r
Tierr
/T
ft
w
x 4
FORDSON FEATURES
HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION • GOVERNOR CONTROL • OPTIONAL
SPEEDS • STATICALLY AND DYNAMICALLY BALANCED CRANKSHAFT
• EXHAUST VALVE INSERTS • BOSCH MAGNETO IMPULSE STARTER
• REAR END POWERTAKE-OFF (optional at extra cost)
DISTRIBUTORS:
South Australia:
POWER PLANT, I/TD.,
■OB-100 Currie Street, Adelaide.
AVestern Australia:
I/SNAS MOTORS, I/TD..
Hay Street, Perth.
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS PTY.,
Corner Bridge and Young Sts.
LTD.,
, Sydney.
Queensland :
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND), LTD.,
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
\ ictoria, Kiverlila and Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOO RE, LIMITED,
City Showrooms:
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY.,
/ ww AJtvi/ic v uunis
LTD., INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA.
Melbourne.
F 297.277
With business on the quiet side in most
parts of Australia, we would have less
to worry about if costs of production
were also “quiet.” “Prosperity” can’t
simply go on and on, swelling all the
time ; but so long as costs don’t become
menacing a falling-off in trade activity
can usually be faced with the feeling that
it will “come right” with time. Rising
costs prolong this period of “coming
right,” and often there are economic and
social upheavals before things are
straightened out. Australia has great
economic advantages over many other
parts of the world, but it seems always
to be too ready to fiddle with indirect
inflation. When the cost of living shows
a tendency to fall again we can face
other problems almost with equanimity.
* # -J: *
Argus and Australasian, Ltd., Mel-
bourne, reports a loss of £46,057 for the
year to June 30 last. That includes all
rehabilitation or “establishment” exes,
incurred during the year. For the past
few months small profits are reported,
and if improvement continues it is pro-
posed to capitalise losses to date and
label them “New ‘Argus’ establishment
account.”
Consolidated Press, Sydney, whose
“Telegraph” shares with the “Argus”
an “independent cable service,” has not
yet presented accounts for the year to
March, 1938, though they closed three
months earlier than those of the “Argus”
now to hand. In the March, 1937,
accounts, Consolidated, which also pub-
lishes the “Women’s Weekly,” showed
a net profit of £11,950 after charging
£77,000 to “establishment account.”
* * * #
Yarra Falls,, Ltd., the largest textile
concern in Australia, pays its customary
10 p.c. for 1937-38, though net earnings
dropped £4195 to 10.5 p.c. on capital.
Costs increased during the year, but the
co. is efficiently run and soundly en-
trenched. It also owns the Globe Worsted
Mills, Sydney.
* * * *
Yellow Express’s net earnings of
£15,544 represented 7.1 p.c. on capital,
against 6.9 p.c. in the preceding term.
Div. went up to 5 p.c., against 4\ p.c.
There has been more demand for the
Bs. 9d.-paid scrip lately, sales being re-
corded at 7s. 3d. last week for a while.
Then there was a fading.
W. M. Hall, of Hall, Chadwick and
Co., Brisbane, is “secretary for a number
of dissatisfied shareholders” in Mt. Mor-
gan, Ltd. A circular, dated Aug. 22, has
been sent out, and it is the intention of
these shareholders dissatisfied with “the
management” and “the paucity of infor-
mation afforded shareholders” to nomi-
nate “suitable men for the vacancies on
the board” that will have to be filled at
the annual meeting.
■;= *. * *
Sydney sharemarket has heard unoffi-
cially that Oil Search’s “deal” is about to
come off at any minute, and prices have
been bdbbing about like a cork with a
big fish nibbling. Here’s hoping that
some official announcement soon supports
the story, and that favorable rumors
aren’t just a Pitt-street mirage. The deal
with the Taranaki (M.L.) co. made by
the Vacuum Oil Co. pleased Taranaki
shareholders; the scrip is now around
13s. Comparisons are often wide of the
mark in cases like these, but it is well to
remember, perhaps, that Taranaki has a
share-issue less than half the size of Oil
Search’s. It all depends on the terms of
any union of interests, however.
* * * *
Beale and Co.’s profit, though small
at £3312, was an improvement of £21,236
on the preceding year’s loss of £17,924.
Good reorganisation work has recently
been carried out, and the business is
now operating more efficiently. The
prefs., which haven’t had a div. for nine
years, are priced at ss.
Australian Glass and subsidiaries have
a staff of 4150 and an annual payroll of
£863,179. A nice prospect for the
“national” insurance bureaucracy when
it comes into being.
* * * *
For 1937 that portion of Australian
sugar production which was not in ex-
cess of “peak-year” permits brought an
average to the miller and grower of
£l7 11s. a ton, against £l7 Is. 4d. a ton
in 1936. A rise in world prices (the
tendency is now the other way) helped.
Sugar grown in excess of peak-year per-
mits has to be sold at world parity,
with no benefit from the home-consump-
tion price.
* ;Js i\i *
Advances made by Australian trading
banks are now at a new record high
level of £286,400,000. Over 13 months
credit made available to industry in
this fashion has expanded £27,200,000,
of which only £3,400,000 has been found
by gathering in deposits. Most of the
stretching has been made possible by
the banks dipping into their liquid re-
sources. Now low wheat and wool prices
have to be faced. The position can be
made easier if imports are curbed. Lon-
don funds have an important bearing
on our internal economy.
* * :!: *
In Melbourne last week:
Menzies Hotel published net profits for
the year to June 30 at £16,439, up £2534. Ord.
div. goes up from 2\ p.c. to 3 p.c.
Australian Knitting Mills showed a profit
£222 lower at £18,848. That was after all exes,
incidental to starting the new full-fashioned
hosiery plant had been charged. Div. stays
at 7£ p.c.
Following publication of accounts, Argus
and Australasian preferred ords. were quoted
at Bs., after sales at Bs. 9d.
Carlton Brewery weakened to 635. 9d., ex
div., to return nearly 4.7 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis.
Coles shares continued depressed at 795.
Drug Houses scrip registered a sharp setback,
touching 255. 9d. on Friday. It was a day of
uncertainty for most stocks.


UHCABLED ADDITIONS
Without Benefit of Geneva.
[The “cornerstone of our foreign policy,” or, as
some have all along held it to be, the mischievous
chatter-house at Geneva, is still dealt with politely by
London “Times,” but, as this digest of a leading article
indicates, the “Times” has no illusions about the increas-
ing drift away from Geneva. In addition to the instances
given in this article and others lately given in these pages
the Seven Oslo Powers Conference at Copenhagen last
month issued a joint communique declaring that those
Powers “regard the ‘sanctions system’ as no longer
obligatory on any member of the League,” and Poland
has this month withdrawn its “permanent delegation.”]
It is a particular charge against Mr. Chamberlain,
made by opponents, doubters and detractors, that he
is out of sympathy with the Geneva institution and too
ready to do a deal with the anti-League Powers.
Although it has always been the practice at Geneva
to treat readily with non-League States, the view has
gained wide currency—especially perhaps in the
Dominions and in the United States —that there is a
fundamental divergence between the policy of Mr.
Chamberlain and Lord Halifax and the “League”
policy of their predecessors.
Nothing could really be farther from the truth.
The events that are proceeding in Europe to-day show
plainly that the difference, if it exists at all, is not
one of aim or of principle, but only one of method,
and they show furthermore that it is not Britain
alone that has changed its view of what the League
of Nations is well fitted to do and what it is pot.
Lord Runciman is investigating the dispute in
Czechoslovakia, with a view to mediating between the
rival parties. Mediation has always been considered
one of the main functions of the League of Nations
—in any case between one nation and another. Lord
Runciman therefore is doing precisely the sort of
work which the League was expected to do.
In the south-east of Europe a notable appease-
ment has been brought about between the four
Governments of the Balkan Entente and their former
foe, Bulgaria. This again is work of the sort which
the League was supposed to do and is entirely in the
spirit of the Covenant, but which has been carried
through without any reference to Geneva. It is not
only a work of appeasement. It has involved also a
revision of the relevant Peace Treaty —work which
was intended to be done under Article XIX of the
Covenant. As in the case of the revision of the
(Lausanne) Straits Convention two years ago, the
negotiators have preferred direct dealings between the
countries concerned to using the too cumbrous
machinery of the League.
The truth is that events have disproved the too
facile assumption that the League was the best instru-
ment for the functions of diplomacy. The rule of
unanimity alone is a decisive obstacle, and the pres-
ence on the Council of representatives of Governments
in no way concerned with the dispute, though it may
be an advantage in arbitral proceedings, is a positive
hindrance in diplomatic negotiation.
The mistake of the framers of the Covenant was
that, besides setting a code of conduct before the
nations and creating a central organisation for tech-
nical activities, they sought also to lay down rules of
policy. But diplomacy never has been and never will
be conducted by rule of thumb. Apart from other
reasons the nations of the world have widely different
outlooks and belong indeed to different stages of
evolution. In practice it has been found impossible
to maintain in full force Articles X and XVI, accord-
ing to which each member-State was expected to
defend the territorial integrity and political indepen-
dence of every other, and, in the event of an infrac-
tion, to apply sanctions in restraint of the aggressor.
One State after another has repudiated the compulsory
character of these obligations.
Many Governments have simply come to the
conclusion that some of the work —the diplomatic
work —assigned to the League by the peacemakers
can be better done by other and older methods. As
Professor Webster has lately pointed out, ideals may
do more harm than good if they are dissociated from
definite and attainable objectives. Goodwill divorced
from action is little more than an emotional luxury.
Neutrality for Safety
[ln rejecting the idea of League wars, many nations
have declared flatly that they will not join in any
European dogfights that do not directly affect them.
London “Daily Express” finds a hope for peace not
only in their declarations of neutrality or isolationism as
far as they themselves are concerned, but because they
act as buffers between possible belligerents.]
A change in the European situation is on us,
about which we have not been told. Yet the change
is important.
Belgium and Holland both now stand for
neutrality—they have decided to isolate themselves
from any conflict which does not concern their own
interests.
Switzerland has gone back to its ancient neutral
status.
The Scandinavian group —Sweden, Norway, Den-
mark and Finland—have defined their attitude towards
the League of Nations; if war breaks out they want
to keep out.
With Belgium and Holland, the four Scandinavian
States have formed the Oslo group, the main object
of which is to remain isolated from a conflict between
the Great Powers.
The three so-called Baltic Republics—Estonia,
Latvia and Lithuania —make no secret of their dis-
illusionment in Geneva. Collective security no longer
attracts them. Their aim is to remain neutral in fact,
if not in name.
Immediately next to the Baltic group is Poland.
It holds the key position for peace in Eastern Europe.
Its policy is Isolationist in that, in spite of its official
alliances, the Polish Government follows the British
model by declaring that it refuses to be bound by
automatically acting commitments.
With Rumania, Poland stands a neutral buffer
between Germany and Russia.
Further south we see the States of the Balkan
League ; Rumania again with Greece, Yugoslavia and
Turkey. Neutrality during a major conflict in Europe
is their avowed aim.
From the Arctic down to the Mediterranean there
stretches one large expanse of neutralised territory.
The neutral Belgo-Dutch group and neutral
Switzerland serve equally to make war more difficult
between France and Germany. French and Germans
are reduced to a short stretch along the Rhine, which
both nations have so strongly fortified that it is diffi-
cult to see how their armies can get at each other in
that sector.
Isolationism in the guise of neutrality is spreading
over a steadily growing area of Europe. It remains
for any one of the Great Powers to adopt the doctrine
officially, and the whole international situation will be
changed.
Germany and Hungary.
[To throw off the arms limitations imposed by the
Treaty of Trianon Hungary has signed non-aggression
pacts with its neighbors, Czechoslovakia, Rumania and
Yugoslavia. But the Hungarians in Czechoslovakia are
making common cause with the Sudeten Germans, and,
as this article by W. Horsfall Carter in London “New
Statesman and Nation” points out, Hungary’s interests
and inclinations lie wholly with Germany.]
Hungary is under the lee of Germany, irrevoc-
ably. Nor is it a new development.
The German orientation dates from the Treaty
of Trianon, when Count Bethlen and his friends swal-
lowed their class-prejudice against the “Jews and
Marxists” of Weimar Germany for the sake of having
a powerful ally for the national cause of treaty
revision. Later, the ruling oligarchy realised that they
were buying a pig in a poke, and tried to escape domi-
nation by closer connection with Italy.
Last year, and at the beginning of 1938, the
“Italian” policy, based on the Rome Protocols —always
more popular than the German connection —seemed
to have proved itself, and the radical Right, vocifer-
ously Germanophile, appeared to be on a bad wicket.
The annexation of Austria made all the difference.
While M. Imredy is sincere in his determination
to suppress the Hungarian Nazis, the diplomatic and
economic vassalage to Germany is unmistakable. Only
if Mussolini were strong enough to break away from
the axis could the recent Rome visit indicate any
change in Hungarian policy.
Here is the clue to present Hungarian policy:
let us, they say, respond to the German embrace and
undertake to mount guard on the middle Danube
against the pan-Slav menace (which, of course, does
not exist), and in return Hitler will see that Hungary
gets her due, in the break-up of Czechoslovakia and
the future “squeezing” of Rumania.
In Budapest recently, the dissolution of the
Czechoslovak State was frankly taken for granted,
and it was assumed that Hungary would secure as
her share of the spoils at the very least the genuinely
Magyar districts in the east and south-west of
Slovakia.
(Condensed from London “Sunday Times.”)
Admiral Horthy, Hungarian Regent, was first
man in the kingdom when Imredy, the Prime Minister,
was a struggling official at the National Bank. He
is 70 years old and his Prime Minister 47 —one is a
sailor, the other an intellectual.
Commander-in-Chief of the Austro-Hungarian
Navy during the war, Horthy lives, revered, secluded,
in the palace on the hills of Buda. His last speech
was a strongly anti-Nazi broadcast. Little things have
endeared Horthy to the people. He always appears in
an admiral’s uniform, even when inspecting troops
from horseback.
Under M. Daranyi, who succeeded General
Gombos as Prime Minister on the latter’s death,
Imredy kept himself in the background while Daranyi
struggled against the welter of excitement that fol-
lowed the appearance of German troops on the fron-
tier. The Government appeared paralysed.
It was said that Daranyi was treating with Szalasi,
the Nazi leader. Daranyi fell, and Imredy took office.
In May and June Imredy put through some
remarkable legislation. The chief measures were:
(1) Repression of Nazi movement. All associa-
tions other than those aiming at Parliamentary repre-
sentation are declared illegal. State employees are
forbidden to belong to the Nazi parties. Szalasi was
imprisoned.
(2) Constitutional Reform. The open ballot is
abolished.
(3) Anti-Semitism. Businesses are given five years
—in special cases ten —to reduce the Jewish share to
20 p.c. of the salaries and 20 p.c. of personnel. In
the professions—law, medicine, engineering and the
stage —intake of Jews is limited to one-twentieth until
the ratio of one Jew to four Christians is reached.
Moreover, in practice, civil service and army are
closed to Jews.
(4) Rearmament. £40,000,000 is to be raised
partly by loan but largely by capital levy, two-thirds for
rearmament. Aeroplanes will be bought from Germany.
Imredy is pursuing a dual policy. He is combating
the Nazi methods and the Nazi party ; but he is intro-
ducing the very reforms that the Nazis are demanding
—with much greater moderation and at a much slower
tempo than any Nazi leader could allow himself.
Japanese “War-lordism.”
[London “Times,” in this (condensed) leading article,
believes that the moderate element in the Japanese
Government is sincere in its desire to protect British
interests in China. But, commenting on the recent talks
between General Ugaki and the British Ambassador,
the “Times” doubts whether Tokio can control the
“war-lordism” and extremism of sections of the army in
China.]
Good intentions towards Britain have been
avowed by Japan. Nevertheless, the situation with
regard to British and other foreign interests in China
has steadily deteriorated.
It is impossible to adduce evidence that the assur-
ances of the present Government in Japan are worth
more than their predecessors’.
Among the most flagrant and easily remediable
cases are the restriction of access to Hongkew and
Yangtzepoo in the International Settlement; the ban
on navigation up the Yangtze ; interference with ship-
ping at Tsingtao ; paralysing of the Whangpoo Con-
servancy Board, vital to the maintenance of the great
port of Shanghai; seizure of British-financed rail-
ways ; formation of a Japanese company to take over
other British-financed railways without regard for
British interests.
In none of these cases (which involve many millions
of British capital) is the Japanese action justifiable.
Fruitless though the protestations of the Japanese
Government have proved, there is reason to believe it
is alive to the dangers and inconveniences of the anti-
British policy its nominal subordinates are pursuing
in China.
Japan is feeling the financial burden of the war.
Russia has given her a shock ; Germany and Italy
seem unlikely to comfort her. The armies at the front
are bogged, and diversions against the rear are increas-
ing both in quantity and quality.
She appears to be getting out of her depth. Her
Government knows this ; her people suspect it. It can
be hoped, though it may not be expected, that the
leaders will not only “give serious thought to” Anglo-
Japanese problems, but will take action.
Whether they will be able has still to be seen.
China’s invaders take on Chinese vices. The Im-
perial Army in Manchuria in 1931 was very different
from the army to-day; its discipline and its solidarity
were incomparably better.
After a short time the Kwantung army showed
independence; it was not always the War Office in
Tokio that had the last word with the Manchurian
garrison. The separatism as between regional com-
mands has become even more marked during the
present invasion.
The Japanese occupation is strongly flavored with
“war-lordism.” The army on the Yangtze has its
own ambitions, its own economic interests and its
own puppet regime at Nanking. The army in the
North is similarly situated, and the long overdue amal-
gamation of the Peking and the Nanking Administra-
tions awaits the outcome of a tug-of-war between their,
alien sponsors on the spot.
North of the Wall and in Inner Mongolia the
Kwantung army frets for action, and recently took
it, to the perturbation of Tokio. The navy has to
content itself with such glory as its seaplanes can
bring it back from Canton; but it too has dreams.
All this helps to explain the impotence of the
Japanese Government to keep promises which they
would prefer to keep if they could.
There are, too, in every regiment factions and
secret societies of officers owing fervent loyalty to
brands of extremism. It was probably men of this
stamp who irrupted in disguise into the International
Settlement and sought to stir up trouble for the
foreigners.
‘‘Popular” Communism.
[This (condensed) article from the “Manchester
Guardian” is the history of the British Communist
party; its failure as a blatant and clumsy mob advo-
cating revolution; its comparative success when it began
to demand anti-Fascist war. It still takes orders from
Moscow, but, in shelving its revolutionary aim to
attract woolly-minded idealists and irresponsible intel-
lectuals, has had to become so “respectable” that its
founders wouldn’t recognise it.]
The British Communist party has been in exis-
tence 18 years. It now claims the largest member-
ship of its career.
Only as it has become less revolutionarv and
Tipping the Day.
The newspapers and the people who “know” that
a European war is scheduled to break out on such
and such a day are doing- as much as anybody to
keep alive that state of jitters that helps to make
war i>ossible. It doesn’t matter that they’re the.
worst tipsters in the world; though they’ve prophe-
sied wrongly a dozen times in the past four years,
they’re still at it.
War was to break out on August 12. But not
even the astrologers, the newspapers that wanted a
scare-story, and the conceited idiot “in the know”
could make it. London “Evening Standard” makes
these sensible comments: —
European war, we were told, would begin on
August 12. Baseless rumor, belied by the event.
Now September 15 is the date favored by the
tipsters of tribulation. Be prepared for the fabri-
cation of flesh-creeping news to support that
equally groundless forecast.
Be on guard against that section of the press
which lives and revels in Crises. Be on guard
against the man whose brother-in-law “has a
friend in the War Office.”
Bear in mind that stories of Britain’s unpre-
paredness emanate in many cases from political
factions who have logs of their own to roll.
Remember that there is a class of individual
to whom it is always an irresistible temptation to
parade the possession of “knowledge” denied to
the average man.
As this x»age goes to press the dailies are com-
plaining that they don’t know Hitler’s mind. They
haven’t seen his calendar, either.


3 NEW FLOORS
BEDROOMS...
with BATHROOMS
. • . AND 24-HOUR
HOT WATER
SERVICE ....
Will
Enjoy
1*
9.1
W EHTWji
RTH
!«
Stt*
A Stay at the Wentworth
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality. You
are treated with the consideration you would meet with in
your own home. Although close to business and social
centres, the Wentworth is situated in an elevated position
“way from trams, trains and other annoying influences.
ne . w fl° ors °f bedrooms have just been added and a
24-hour hot-water service.
WENTWORTH HOTEL
SYDNEY
C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England , travel
one Way via “The Cape ” and spend
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAYILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
„ *
V ifr=
MM
=B\
==k
£2ss
«
more respectable has membership gone up. It has
taken a long time for success —even success so quali-
fied as a membership of 15,750 for a national party.
The party was formed in 1920 out of Left-wing
bodies mesmerised by the Russian revolution. Their
joint membership was at best 10,000. About the
same time the Communist International was formed
in Moscow, and poured out money lavishly here.
The Communist party was not anti-Labor ; Lenin
had told it to work with Labor to overthrow the
Lloyd George Coalition. But the Labor party would
not admit Communist affiliation at any price. Com-
munism ceased to be a popular faith. Membership
dwindled to less than 4000.
Communism suffered from its sterility. The sub-
sidies in the first years were immense ; the output of
periodicals bewildering ; but they were all in a poli-
tical dialect that did not attract.
It had its great opportunity in 1925 and 1926
when the trade unions were militant, but it did not
hold its gains. It never had a stable membership—
"a constant stream of workers are coming into the
party and a constant stream going out.”
Even when over 10,000 was reached during the
coal stoppage, two-thirds melted away in two years.
In 1928 and 1929 the failure became so lamentable
that Moscow imposed a fresh policy and turned out
the majority of the leaders.
1 he unions had been too much for them. Moscow
however, knew better and insisted that the British
workers were swinging to the Left, and that now was
the time lor the Communists to fight for power. The
new trick did not work ; the party went downhill
until it had 2000 members. Dissolution seemed at
hand.
The Labor collapse of 1931 gave the Communist
party fresh wind, but in spite of the slump its mem-
bership remained pretty constant (in total) for four
years. It displayed great fertility in propaganda, but
did not attract adherents until the last two years.
The advance has coincided with the wars in Spain
and China and the rising aggressiveness of the Fascist
Powers ; the changed foreign policy of Russia and of
“? e Communist International, which sought anti-
Fascist alliances ; the sentiment for a working arrange-
ment between all sections of the Left; and, not least
important, the discovery of a new technique.
The dialect of Moscow has been largely dropped
and, although Stalin and Moscow justice are still blind
spots, Communists have been permitted to be human
and even, within appropriate limits, patriotic.
So now we find these people far less revolutionary
in utterance than Mr. Maxton and his 1.L.P., ready for
a Popular Front even with the Liberals and Mr.
Churchill, angling for the middle classes, awakening
suddenly to the curious fact that the British people’s
passion is sport, not politics, and (in the latest report)
commending the delights of knitting parties and
bazaars.
Lenin s advice on the “intellectual childishness” of
no compromise has been well taken. But what has
become of Communism?
Big Business v. Roosevelt.
(Condensed from cm article by the New York corre-
spondent of London “Times” Trade and Engineering
supplement for August.)
The “rugged individualists” of another day in
America, fearful of becoming ragged individualists,
or perhaps of ceasing to be individualists at all, are
taking a stand.
Convinced that continued encroachments of Gov-
ernment on business will destroy the American system
unless somebody does something about it, the New
York chambers of commerce have joined the move-
ment started by the United States Chamber of Com-
merce to combat the activity of “politicians, economic
- t .
wisecrackers and those seeking a change in the Ameri-
can system,” and by every possible means “to make
the public business-conscious.”
Following the example of 1200 other chambers
of commerce throughout the United States, they
started in mid-July to distribute “literature” among
the employees of their 10,000 member companies, to
put special seals on envelopes and to advertise by
posters and all the other arts of publicity the danger
menacing the Republic. Beginning with their own
employees, they hoped to reach eventually everybody
in New York City.
They have begun by reminding the public that
“up to a few years ago the United States was known
as a business nation. Foreign lecturers reproached
us for our lack of culture and accused us of worship-
ping business, but they envied the national income
and the standard of living which this business produced
for our laboring people.”
But now things have changed. “Business has
been accused by those who have been seeking a change
in the American system of being reactionary, of selfish-
ness, of short-sightedness, predatoriness and of most
of the other crimes on the calendar. The result has
undoubtedly been to build up in the minds of many
a distrust of the American system which has made it
easy to obtain support for various plans which con-
template the substitution of Government domination
for free enterprise. People have been led to believe
that every ill of every group can be cured quickly and
permanently through paternalistic planning which
insists upon ignoring what private enterprise has done
for the masses in the United States.”
The chambers of commerce are going to attempt
to show the public: (1) That business offers every
man the opportunity to go as far as his ability and his
industry will carry him ; (2) that business is eager to
lighten the load of labor and to pay the best possible
wage ; (3) that business is always seeking ways to
give better products or services for less money ; (4)
that business will not and cannot deceive the public
concerning blind-alley short-cuts to security.
They will further attempt to show: (a) That
American business is an entity the parts of which
are interdependent and interrelated—not a particular
class or group ; ( b ) that people are an integral part
of business and operate it as workers and investors ;
(c) that the worker, the investor and the consumer
are the beneficiaries of this entity and have a common
interest in maintaining it.
Meanwhile the President, who is politically an
exceedingly practical man, is journeying about' the
country selling a somewhat different American system.
In the view of the New Dealers, his, too, is the “only
original” American system. Moreover, it is a great
deal easier to take than the rugged individualists’ one.
And so far it has not done the latter a bit of good
to tell people that no matter how good the New Deal
medicine makes one feel now it is bound to be fol-
lowed by an awful headache.
The President had hardly started on his journey
before ordinary routine required him to tell the
country what the outlook was for the Budget in the
1939 fiscal year. The outlook, it seemed, was not
quite as good as it was in January. Indeed, it was a
long way from being as good. “Held back by sense-
less fears,” wholly unappreciative of the paternal help
extended to it by the Government, business had failed
to accept its opportunity and responsibility. It had
lagged in putting new money into enterprise, and
although the Government had put still more billions
of potential credit at its disposal it was not merely
refusing to borrow any of it, it was actually cutting
down its existing borrowings. And unemployment
was increasing by millions —which meant that the
Government would have to spend and lend many
more hundreds of millions than it had expected. So,
instead of the Treasury’s ninth successive deficit being
only a billion dollars or so, the deficit by June 30,
1939, would be nearer four billions of dollars, and the
gross public debt —which had been $22,500,000,000 in
June, 1933 —would be over $40,000,000,000.
From outside the United States an outlook like
this in the seventh year of a depression might seem
at least vaguely disturbing. It might seem even more
than that here, where there was the knowledge that
Congress would be asked next January for a revision
of taxes which would probably make this at last the
most heavily taxed nation per capita on the face of
the globe. But it did not. The country took it all in
its stride. It was much more interested in knowing
how three or four billion dollars of relief and public
works money, to be put out at the rate of half a
billion a month, was going to be spent and lent, and
whether Mr. Roosevelt was, or was not, going to stand
for a third term. It is true that here and there there
was some questioning of how permanent the current
recovery in business was likely to be, but though
inflation ’ of one kind or the continues to be
rumored from time to time it is coming to be like the
new great war in Europe—harder and harder to
believe probable.
Tammany Hall.
[James J. Hines, Tammany Hall political “boss,” is
charged in New York with running a lottery “racket ”
Claud Golding, in this article from London “Evening
Standard, traces the history of Tammany as a political
institution.]
n,-.,- The St ° ry of Tamman y Hall begins in 1789, when
William Mooney, Irish upholsterer, founded the Tam-
many Society in New York. His intention was
benevolent.
The society became political. In a few years the
“wigwam" became a house of graft. Mooney had
become a crook. They asked him once what he had
done with certain thousands of dollars. “Just trifles
tor Mrs. Mooney,” said he.
Early in the nineteenth century the notorious
Aaron Burr hooded himself to Tammany Hall. He
might have been President of the United States.
Instead he chose to control White House by devious
ways.
Tammany pulled in many directions. It had
control over the municipal jobs of New York. Regard-
less of the graft frequently exposed, the employees
sat tight and thanked Tammany.
Tammany controlled the Weights and Measures
office. A good Tammany butcher could always get
away with a 15oz. weight for a pound.
For 70 years Tammany Hall was a sink into
which hundreds oi thousands of pounds flowed annu-
ally in blackmail. City employees were squeezed
under threat of dismissal. The blackmail money was
listed as “election expenses.”
In 1870 this colossal wigwam of corruption began
its worst activities. William M. Tweed sat on the
throne. Tweed had been an alderman on the Com-
mon Council, known by New Yorkers as the “Forty
Thieves. He first got a grip on civic affairs while
a volunteer fireman. Gradually he climbed until he
dictated the election of the Mayor, the Governor and
some of the Judges of New York.
He got a charter passed to control the city with
four men—the Mayor, the Comptroller and the Com-
missioners of Parks and Public Works. The debt
of New York rose. One year’s printing bill came to
£600,000. A courthouse cost £2,500,000.
When Tweed fell, “Honest John” Kelly stepped into
the breach. He began blackmailing corporations.
Corporations found it cheaper to pay, rather than
risk lawsuits. • Kelly had a more ambitious scale of
silence than Tweed. His price was £lOO,OOO a time.
Next came ‘ Boss ’ Croker, the blacksmith’s son
ol Cork. He had entered politics ostensibly to fight
Tammany. “Boss” Croker hitched gambling dens to
his blackmail scheme. In 1892 a Grand Jury testified
that Croker had an annual income of £1,400,000 from
these sources.
Tammany has been rocking for about six years,
and the edifice is splitting from top to bottom.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Canterbury club was lucky in
point of the weather for and the attend-
ance (over 11,000) at its Guineas meet-
ing ; but backers of Pandava for the
Guineas were distinctly unlucky. The
barrier had been tampered with, it is
supposed by boys who mount the fence
near the nine-furlongs post, and when
starter Gaxieu pulled the lever and
shouted “Go” it refused to rise. But
Pandava galloped through the tapes
and set out on his journey, and Rathlin
threw his jockey. The latter galloped
riderless for about a mile. Pandava
was pulled up after he had gone three
or four furlongs, McCarten tardily re-
alising it was no start. The favorite,
Respirator, backed from 7 to 4 to 5 to 4
on, stood at the machine like a lamb.
Pandava, upset and blowing hard, was
ridden back to the starting point, and
when they got away at last to a flagged
start he pulled himself to the front. Ttje
Brazen colt led to the half-mile, where
his stablemate, Petruchio, tackled him.
Petruchio led into the straight, but was
soon settled when Respirator and Aeolus
put in their claims. For a few strides
Aeolus held off the favorite, but the son
of Windbag has his sire’s gameness, if
nothing much else, and though he lugged
in beat Aeolus and Petruchio comfort-
ably. Pandava finished fifth in a field
of six. All going well he would prob-
ably have won.
Condition had enabled Stretto to beat
Gold Rod at Warwick Farm. In the
Canterbury Stakes bookies and backers
agreed that E. J. Watt’s horse would
beat the mare, and 10 to 9 was demanded.
The big chestnut jumped away smartly
from the rails, and Stretto could never
take the lead from him. Bounding along
with giant strides, he defeated her by a
length, King’s Head being a length and
a half back third. Mohican, after look-
ing a place-getter at the home turn, ran
wide opposite the Leger. Delmestor
showed pace and is worth keeping in
mind for something easier.
Brazandt must have been very unfor-
tunate at Warwick Farm. His pace en-
abled him to make every post a winner
in the Flying Handicap, and the favorite
had his opponents struggling all the way.
Brown Baroness chased him over the last
half-mile, and Hammerhead got up in
the last stride to beat Lockray for third
place. Eastern Maid ran like a squib.
Adios took charge of his rider while
doing his preliminary, and went a round
of the track. As he was not in the
starter’s hands he should have been
scratched. He took his place in the field,
but finished down the straight.
Miss K. M. Doyle, a daughter of T. G.
Doyle the vet., owns Greek Play. The
animal is an ancient with a poor record,
and so little was thought of his Canter-
bury Handicap chance that 20 to 1 was
offered —this in a field of eight. In an
exciting finish, Greek Play had half his
head in front of The Wrecker, a plain-
looking gelding from Maoriland, Silver
Standard being a length away third. The
Wrecker came late —too late. The favor-
ite, Billy Boy, was fourth, ahead of Red
Sails and Dutiful. Billy Boy ran to the
lead at the Leger, but turned it up.
Darby Munro’s riding enabled Bian-
coni (5 to 1) to make a dead-heat for
first in the Ashbury Handicap with Kai
Tere (5 to 2). The pacemaker, Sidcup,
lugged badly all the way, losing lengths
going out of the straight. In the circum-
stances his third was rather creditable.
Friar’s Switch was fourth.
The Canterbury-trained Miss Marj (25
to 1) had given the bagmen an auspicious
start, for the unbacked mare easily beat
the favorite, Bronze Head, in the first
race, a division of the Park Stakes.
Haughty Clare (5 to 1), getting a lucky
run on the rails, won the second division,
and Moaveil (7 to 2) outstayed the
favorite, Rosante, in the third division.
Though the Ring started with a
“skinner” rotten prices were laid at Can-
terbury Park. Because of the antiquated
60-20-20 p.c. distribution the tote at that
course is unpopular ; nevertheless, it paid
as much on Gold Rod —and two divi-
dends besides —as the Ring offered, and
nearly as much on Brazandt (also one of
three dividends) and Respirator (one of
two); and if Sidcup had won the last
race —again there were three dividends —
his backers would have done almost as
well on the machine as with the man.
As for doubles, Brazandt and Pandava
were quoted at 3 to 1, though really
daring operators offered fours. Installa-
tion of 5.0., place and doubles machines
ought to be enforced by the Government
on all proprietary racecourses, as a con-
dition of their retaining their license.
* * * *
Darby Munro is riding in wonderful
form these days. At Ascot (Sydney) on
Wednesday he had four mounts —Speed
King in a division of the Welter, Cona-
sau in the Fourteen-Two, Gay Romance
in the Flying and Dermid in the Ascot
Handicap—and at Newcastle on Thurs-
day he had three —Milantheon in the
Flying, Correct in the Three- and Four-
year-old and Sturdee in the Novice —and
all seven won. They were all at short
prices, Conasau, 9 to 2, being the “out-
sider” of the seven, but any price is a
good price in these circumstances. At
Canterbury, Munro had four rides for
half a winner—Bianconi. There was a
time when Darby was overshadowed by
brother Jimmy; in fact, it was said that
“he couldn’t ride.” Those who scoffed
at him then remain to praise.
H: * * *
It may be true that Perimond needs
plenty of racing, but for a young horse
with a Metrop. engagement on October
3 three hard races in an August-Septem-
ber week seem excessive. Veilmond’s
son duly won the Cameron Handicap at
Newcastle, for which he was favorite at
7 to 4, beating King Gee and Roi Sion
(Allunga, Bobby Tickle, Jan and Dermid
were among the also-rans), but in the
Newcastle Cup two days later King Gee
(5 to 1) turned the tables. That old-
stager and the desperately unlucky
Jocular (6 to 1) had the last furlong to
themselves, King Gee prevailing by a
head; Perimond (4 to 1) was another
length and a half away third. Allunga
was unplaced again ; another failure was
Cerne Abbas.
* * * *
Sol Green is not to get a race out of
Actor. Jamieson told him that the French
horse was sore and might break down
utterly if kept in training. So Green is
sending his costly purchase to the stud at
Bacchus Marsh.
* * * *
Ajax had one of the easiest wins of
his brilliant career in the V.A.T.C.
Memsie Stakes on Saturday. Harold
Badger rode a more leisurely race than
at Williamstown a week before, and his
mount took 13fsec. to cover the first
furlong, but ran the last four in 48fsec.
Young Idea (lmin. 50isec.) holds the
Caulfield record for nine furlongs. Ajax
occupied 2sec. longer.
. Two of the leading Paddock book-
makers strolled off for a “spot” when
the Memsie Stakes came on for de-
cision. They wouldn’t field on what
looked to be a foregone conclusion.
After demanding 7 to 1, the remain-
ing operators accepted fours and had
cause to regard themselves as public
benefactors. Ajax paid 6s. for ss. on
the tote; his place (one-two) backers
had their money returned.
Turning into the straight Ajax hung
out and Badger had to ride him with
one rein for a short distance. When
straightened Ajax made a bee-line for
the post and never was in danger of
being overhauled. His supremacy at
weight for age is as absolute as that of
Phar Lap in the latter’s prime.
The Trump was second, 2\ lengths
behind Ajax. This represented an im-
provement on his effort at Williamstown
a week before, but he reached the judge
only a head in advance of Aitchengee,
which doesn’t sound so good. Tactical’s
fourth was not a satisfactory Derby trial,
even allowing that he carried, a 71b.
penalty, as also did Ajax, The Trump
and Elanage. Last-named finished a long
last.
Peggy O’Neill (twelves) annexed the
first division of the Doona Trial after
a tight tussle with Pibroch and Imper-
sonator. The 9-to-2 favorite Monkshead
had a bad passage. Sylphide, owned by
a daughter of Clive Baillieu, the
V.A.T.C. chairman, easily accounted for
Only One, 5-to-2 favorite, in the second
division. Only One, a chestnut son of
Limond, is partly owned by A. E.
Cooper, of Yanga station, on the Mur-
rumbidgee River. He may make amends
soon.
Lou Robertson may be more likely
to win the Victoria Derby with Kingdom
than with Tactical. Kingdom (Thracian-
Queen’s Consort), bred and raced by
A. T. Creswick, started favorite (11 to
4) for the Warriston Welter, and came
home like a true stayer to beat Caption
and Good Boy, setting lmin. 40|sec.
for the mile on a track that wasn’t really
fast.
Many spectators considered that
Othello (tens) had maintained a post-
to-finish lead in the Heatherlie Handi-
cap, but* the Caulfield angle is deceptive
and the judge awarded Mutable (sevens)
a half-head victory. Mutable was suc-
cessful in the Australian Cup of 1937
and is becoming cherry-ripe again.
Othello (Heroic-Desdemona) is a brother
to Cassio, who scored at Williamstown.
The owner, R. R. Thomas, has hopes
of landing the Caulfield Cup with his
chestnut.
Nightguard, backed down to 9 to 4,
captured the Whittier Handicap in
splendid fashion, followed home by
Beechwood. Latter is trained by Frank
Musgrave, who went close to a treble
success, having won previously with
Sylphide and Ajax. Andy Morrow
announced on the course that Night-
guard would be sent to Sydney to com-
pete in the Epsom.
Hilltop (eights) fenced dashingly in
the Sandringham Steeple, and scored by
a number of lengths from Turf Boy (7
to 2), who did not gallop generously in
the first half of the journey. Jolly Boy
reached the end of his tether under big
imposts and knocked up after leading.
* * * *
Ajax, handicapped at 9st. 71b. for the
Caulfield Cup on June 27, and favorite
from the moment of publication, was
scratched on Saturday. Rotten luck for
the multitude of punters who began
doubles with him, and their indignation
has not been lessened by a newspaper
assurance that “the owners kept faith
with the public in announcing their de-
cision seven weeks before the race.” The
decision was arrived at very tardily, and
it came as a rude shock even to those
who had not coupled the champion in
doubles, but who had come to regard
him as not only a sure starter, all going
well, but as great a racecourse certainty
as Manfred was in his year. As it is,
bookmakers, who get so much newspaper
sympathy, have collected heaps of easy
money, and thousands of admirers of a
great horse are left with depleted pockets
and sore heads.
Actually Ajax was withdrawn from
the Caulfield Cup five minutes before the
Memsie Stakes, and news of the scratch-
ing was broadcast immediately. E. L.
(“Prince”) Baillieu, part-owner of the
champion, expressed the opinion that
Ajax could have won one of the Cups,
“but,” he added, “we would have had
to give him an entirely different prepara-
tion.”
Times have changed. Malua, Carbine,
Wakeful, Prince Foote, Comedy King
and Manfred —not to speak of Phar Lap
—were good over ail distances, and in
handicap as well as weight-for-age com-
pany. Ajax might have revealed equal
versatility if afforded the opportunity ,
but his owners prefer to “play safe.
Avenger and Nuffield are in Sydney
for the spring meetings, and are looking
distinctly well. Some horses do not
develop noticeably between three years
and four, but Avenger is bigger and
heavier, especially about the quarters.
Nuffield, in conformation a true son of
Heroic, obviously wintered well. He
has thickened over shoulders and quar-
ters and, if anything, is longer under
the barrel. He seems a cut above the
Sydney colts who have been racing this
season.
jjc
Werribee, included for racing purposes
in the metropolitan area of Melbourne,
staged a meeting on August 31, which
brought enjoyment to bookmakers only.
They didn’t mind the cold and showery
weather; nine favorites failed in a row.
Two winners were “skinners,” paying
£l6 17s. 6d. and £l6 6s. 6d.
for each ss. in the tote win pool.
Fred Hoysted won the first division of
the Trial Handicap with Amplify (Mar-
conigram-Lucy Manette), third in order
of favoritism, at fours. With Harold
Badger up, she easily accounted for Keith
Voitre’s mount, Harford, who is trained
by Lou Robertson, and carried the colors
in which Tactical distinguished himself
in the autumn.
Tom Woodcock, who looked after
Phar Lap on his ill-fated visit to America,
landed the second division of the Trial
Handicap with Rivello (Rizzio-Viatello),
the horse that returned his tote supporters
£l6 17s. 6d. Leading all the way, Rivello
scored as he liked from Aerostat, with
Pebblestone a close third. Twelve months
ago L. J. Tomasini, of Geelong, unsuc-
cessfully offered Rivello as a present to
a local trainer. The horse picked up
after a lengthy spell. He has acquitted
himself well in schooling lessons, and
will be put to jumping.
Backed from 5 to. 1 down to threes,
Iconium, a four-year-old gelding by
Marconigram (sire of Marabou) from the
1930 Oaks winner, Barbette, narrowly
defeated the pacemaker, Bold d’Or, in
the third division of the Trial Handicap.
He cost 1100 guineas as a yearling.
The £3O earned at Werribee, added to
£ll won at Pakenham, represents a
meagre return on that outlay. Iconium
belongs to W. Woodmason, who did
fairiy well a few seasons ago with
Titanium, and sold that horse for 2000
guineas for shipment to India.
Bustard, who ran third in a Williams-
town Cup dnd vanquished Sylvandale in
a weight-for-age event on the same
course, squeezed home by a head from
Orange Bitters (5 to 2) in the August
Handicap, with Plymouth Hoe (equal
favorite with Orange Bitters) half a
head farther off. This was the closest
finish of the afternoon, but it evoked
no cheering, as Bustard was a 12-to-l
shot.
Originally Bustard was trained by Ted
Fisher for J. S. Feehan, the fine sports-
man who did so well with Mountain
God over fences. Considered to be un-
sound, Bustard was sent into the sale
ring and fell to the lucky bid of A. E.
Moss at 30gns. Feehan parted with
Middle Watch, a dual Leger winner, in
similar circumstances. Bill Tindall after-
wards won races with Middle Watch.
As a three-year-old Induna, by Amalfi,
gained some prominence by winning the
S.A.J.C. Derby and being runner-up to
Phar Lap in the V.A.T.C. St. George
Stakes. Bought by the Tyson Bros, for
stud duty at their station near Hay
(N.S.W.), he came under notice as a
sire at Werribee when Sorrento annexed
the Bulban Handicap by a length from
Manetis (fours), with the 6-to-4 favorite
On Time in third position. Unknown
and unasked for in the betting, he richly
rewarded a few tote supporters by pay-
ing £l6 6s. 6d. for a win and £2 3s. for
a place.
Divisions of the Welter Handicap went
to My Boy (eights) and Fair Maiden (20
to 1). Love Chatter (twelves) captured
the Encourage Handicap. The most
favorable result for punters on a disas-
trous day was when Steel Spear (threes)
beat African, a 2-to-l favorite, in the
Jumpers’ Flat.
* * * *
“Town Moor”: There is a surprisingly
small acceptance for the Doncaster St.
Leger, last of the English racing season’s
classics, only a dozen horses remaining
in. Forfeits are heavy in England, and
as nominations were close on the 200
mark a lot of good money has gone
down the drain. Of the Derby fancies,
Pasch and Pound Foolish stand out.
Pasch should win.
(Continued on next page.)
FOR RANDWICK.
Chelmsford Stakes: Avenger;
next, Nuffield or Gold Rod.
Novice Handicap: Slanchivar;
next, Strathroy.
Tramway Handicap: Publicity
next, Denis.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Bristol or Silenus ; next, Troy.
Spring Handicap: Bristol or
Cooranga; next, Gold Rod or
Silenus.
Welter: Coolspell; next, Herarde.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
M.V. Stakes: Kingdom; next,
Lord Windburra.
Budgeree Handicap: Othello;
next, Barapic.
Nulla Nulla Welter: Gladstone ;
next, Prince Sion.


m
m
m <
tcuuouS feopfe~l%oU4e
ewZealand
LAND OF VARIED SPORT AND THRILLING SCENERY
Open the portals of the newest, richest travel field —New Zealand
—a beautiful bewitching land; a new adventure in happy living;
a world of education in scenic splendour, unique variety, and
facilities for thrilling sports. And best of all for Australians it is
so accessible, and so economical.
FREE TRAVEL SERVICE
And the beauty of a New Zealand holiday is that all
those irritating details attendant on travelling in other
lands are not allowed to disturb the pleasure of your
trip. You just communicate your wishes concerning
itinerary to us, and we supervise arrangements for
transport, accommodation, luggage, etc., throughout
the whole trip.
G. Bernard Shaw:
We cannot leave New Zealand with-
out acknowledging our obligations to
your Tourists Department in the con-
duct of our tour.
Everything has been done for us in
the friendliest and completest fashion.
We have had no trouble at all and
we quite agree that we never had
such a tour in our lives. Travelling
without worries did not seem pos-
sible, but you have achieved it for
us. Many, many thanks..
Sir Harry Lauder:
There is nothing in the world to equal
the sport at Taupo. The glow-worm
cave at Waitomo is the most won-
derful and fascinating sight I have
ever seen in my life, and I have been
round the world four times.
Zane Grey:
A strange, beautiful country with the
most wonderful coast I have ever
seen.
(Believe It or Not) Ripley:
. . . The Glow Worm caves —out-
standing world wonderamong the six.
mm
■
18
ma
m
ROTORUA
Ask your Travel Agent for Free Literature
and full details, or write, call or ’phone:
Cardinal Ceretfi:
Truly, New Zealand is a most won-
derful land—wonderful in what it
has been and ... in what it will be.
. . . Nature seems to have showered
her choicest blessings on it.
Lord Burnham:
New Zealand has exactly filled my
expectations. The standards of well-
being are higher than I recollect see-
ing in any other country.
Lady Craigavon:
The most beautiful, the most curious
. . . place I ever visited.
Vicki Baum:
To go touring through New Zealand
is like opening a huge box of exotic
toys. Besides being amazing and
interesting and beautiful everything
you see is unique. Roam through the
world as you may, you’ll never come
upon its like anywhere else.
w
MT COOK
New Zealand Government Tourist Bureau
14 Martin Place, Sydney. ’Phone: 87043 (directly opposite G.P.0.).
Colonial Mutual Buildings, 318-320 Collins Street, Melbourne. ’Phone:
Cent. 3110. King House, 79 Queen Street, Brisbane.
(And all travel Agents.)


you candependon
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
/or ACCELERATION
Strong hot sparks are necessary
for smooth and lively engine
performance. Is your car jerky
and sluggish? See how greatly
it improves with a set of
new Champions! They
save enough fuel to pay
for themselves.
An Empire Product —
made in Windsor, Canada
m
™*Tf>
Wm
mm
SMI
mm
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
; II
45
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
INVINCIBLE
MARINE and
INDUSTRIAL
ENGINES
Stocked in
IS sizes: 3
to 150 h.p.
1-, 2-, 4-, 6-,
8- and 12-
ds
cylinder Models, Benzine —Kerosene—Crude •
oil. 300 Engines always in stock. All
Spare Parts always available. Our low
prices defy all competition.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue To-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS Pty., Limited,
53 North George St., Sydney. Estab. ti)o6.
m
Vi
AN Dig
plaited!
KANGAROO
SKIN BELT
„ ith new
rind fastener
PRICE-
mm i^TiKiiaiLT.
„ «i Queen St. Brisbane
M.Q. and Rafferty
A New Welter Champion
At Carlton (N.S.W.) on Thursday
night, after the Dancing Delandros and
the Acrobatic Atwills had done their
stuff, “Hockey” Bennell and Jack Mc-
Namee boxed for the welterweight title
resigned by Jack Carroll.
The early rounds were McNamee’s, but
Bennell began to get in close and punch
with both hands, and in the seventh
round had Mac in trouble till Joe Wallis
reminded him that the lace of a glove
had come unput. After that the affair
was conducted along academic lines, with
Bennell’s arguments continually carry-
ing more weight.
There were bright spots in the eleventh,
and more in the fifteenth ; then Joe placed
a fatherly hand on Bennell’s head.
Though not near Carroll’s class yet,
Bennell has improved. He has forgotten,
a lot of his earlier liking for tapdancing
without losing any of his cleverness.
Ins and Outs
In cold, dull weather John Langridge
and Stainton took the Sussex score on
to 72 before Walker stumped Langridge
for 32—breaking his finger again in the
process. Stainton, an Oxford blue who
rarely appeared for the county last
season, played an attractive shot for 58 ;
H. Parks stayed only a few moments,
White getting him l.b.w. for 12.
Stainton had been joined by the ex-
Cambridge batsman Bartlett, who at once
began to subject what there was of the
Australian bowling to the most horrible
hiding it has stood up to this tour. Only
23, and a left-hander, Bartlett must have
some of the attributes of that great hit-
ting batsman Percy McDonnell, since
we are tolcl he does not lift his bat until
the ball is on him. Surrey refused him a
place on the ground that he wasn’t good
enough, and so he joined Sussex. A score
of 175 against a strong Players team,
made in a little over two hours, attracted
attention earlier in the season, but we
have heard little of him this end.
Bartlett finally went to a running catch
on the boundary off Ward for 157. He
made his 100 in 55 minutes —a record
for the season —and in all hit six sixes and
11 fours. At latest advices he was
eighth on the English averages with 1391
runs at 53.50 per innings.
This meteor having passed out of sight,
James Langridge proceeded to pile up
a score until he had passed brother John’s
total and was 68. Barnett caught him
behind the sticks, and then more affliction
came at the bat of Cox, who reached 76
before Ward found his stumps. This
was the end, however, for after skipper
Holmes had been content with a 13,
White getting him caught by Barnes, the
last four batsmen gave little trouble, W.
Cornford being 12 n. 0., sundries 15 and
the total 453. Ward bowled long and
pluckily, ending with 6-184. White was
next with 3-75.
The Australians sent in Brown and
Ward to start the second innings. Ward
was bowled scoreless by J. Cornford,
and then Barnes played out time with the
Queenslander: Brown 17, Barnes 24 ; one
for 47.
A few minutes after the resumption
next morning Brown was caught behind
the sticks by W. Cornford off Hammond
for 23. Badcock filled the breach, and
after a scary start began to score in his
old style. At 91 Barnes departed, clean
bowled by Wood for a lively 44. Barnett
and Badcock laced the bowling until the
ex-Tasmanian lofted the ball to Holmes
off Wood. He had made 58, and the
score had mounted to 174. Barnett’s
brisk contribution was 53 ; it included a
sixer. Once more McCabe failed to sup-
port ; he was dismissed for 16 by Ham-
mond, w'ho also got Waite and White.
Hassett, in late with an injured hand,
banged the bowling about, and McCor-
mick, of all people, helped him to add
36 for the ninth wicket. Hassett was
caught by J. Cornford off Wood for 56.
Walker, batting with his broken finger,
was not out for a couple, and the innings
ended for 300 dead.
The most successful of the bowlers was
Hammond (no relation to the amateur
pro.), 5 for 107. Wood took 3 for 81.
Sussex again sent in Stainton and
John Langridge. The amateur was
bowled by McCormick, and Langridge
was caught by Barnett off Ward. With
two gone for 53 stumps were drawn an
hour before time because of the light.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Test averages show that
honors rest with the Englishmen. Hutton
“Been chasin' a 'are, m'son, but nearer I got to un the farther 'e was
goin' from me."
has 118.25 for four completed innings,
and Paynter 101.75 for six innings, in-
cluding two not-outs. Hardstaff is third
with 92 for two completed knocks. All
but 109 of Hutton’s runs came from his
giant score of 364 at the Oval. Fames
took 17 wickets at 35.23 runs each,
Verity 14 at 25.28 and Bowes 10 at 18.80.
Bradman topped the Australian bat-
ting with 108.50 for four completed
innings, and the solid Brown was next
with 73.14 for seven finished knocks.
McCabe’s eight innings averaged 45.25 ;
most of the runs came from his one big
score of 232 in the Notts Test. O’Reilly
bagged 22 wickets at 27.77, F.-Smith 14
at 51.92, McCormick 10 at 34.50.
* * * *
The closing stages of the tour are very
badly arranged. After knocking off at
Brighton the players had to travel
diagonally from one end of Eng-
land to the other to play at Blackpool.
The moment the Blackpool match was
finished they had another long train trip
down the length of England to Folke-
stone, and were then immediately yanked
back to Scarborough in n.-e. Yorkshire.
Blackpool, where the Australians
engaged “an England XI” after their
Sussex escape, is the place where the
lion ate little Albert Ramsbotham. It
is also the sole market for the real British
cigar, which is made in London from
vegetable leaves gathered at Covent Gar-
den market, soaked in a mixture of
tobacco juice, molasses, saltpetre and the
contents of the drip troughs from the
pub beer pumps, and then dried and sold
at two for a penny—otherwise “twofers.”
The cigars are smoked by the countless
holiday-makers who frequent Blackpool
from the Lancashire mills and weaving
sheds in summer, and are said to be the
reason the tide thereabouts never comes
within more than a mile of the beach.
The cable mentions that though Mc-
Cabe won the toss he “noticed grass on
the pitch” and therefore sent the other
side in. Quite understandable ; McCabe,
like all others playing first-class cricket
nowadays, probably regards grass as cow-
feed and quite out of place on a cricket
pitch.
The England XI was a curious mix-
ture, ranging from Edrich and Worthing-
ton—here with Allen—to Amar Singh,
a Sikh, who after a varied cricket career
which included Cambridge University
and an Indian team in England, is now
a professional in the Lancashire League.
Cullud gemmum Constantine and
Headley, of the West Indies and the
League, were invited, it is said, but were
barred by their clubs.
The pitch was good to all appearances,
and the openers, Edrich and Smith, of
Derby, dealt well with Waite and Mc-
Cormick until 52 went up ; then O’Reilly
bowled Smith for 26. The same bowler
added Edrich to his bag, the Test player
reaching 31. Solid Worthington batted
characteristically till McCabe caught him
off Ward for 45. The same bowler
skittled Croom, of Warwickshire, for nix,
and Townsend, of Derby, passed on with
the same score, legged by O’Reilly. Of
the remaining batsmen —one was Eckers-
ley, a former captain of Lancashire, and
another our old pal Duckworth—no one
did anything. Wickets: O’Reilly 4-30,
Ward 6-44. All out 132. As the poet
might have sung:
O’Reilly swerved and Ward span —
Where was then your Englishman ?
Australia didn’t do too wonderfully
either. Amar Singh got rid of Brown
for 11 on a leg decision, and then Pope
clean bowled the unhappy Badcock for
14. Hassett contributed a lovely duck
through the agency of Worthington and
Singh, and the Indian then packed off
McCabe (11) and Barnett (9), while Pope
accounted for Barnett (23). Waite also
had the Indian sign put on him, Singh
getting him l.b.w. for 22. White was
next, and with seven gone for 101 the
outlook was not happy.
White, however, stopped the rush for
the pavilion and found a sturdy partner
in Ward, who followed up his fine bowl-
ing with a stout innings for 31. White
had made 16, and, with O’Reilly con-
tributing 17 and McCormick 1 n. 0., the
score was brought to 174 and the day
saved. Good old Sundries (19) also
acquired merit.
Amar Singh bowled right medium,
swinging a lot and utilising a leg trap
successfully. His tally was 6 for 84.
The game ended early on Thursday
with a 10-wicket win for Australia. There
had been some rain on Wednesday night
which may have affected the pitch, but
the batting of the Australians when
knocking off the necessary runs did not
suggest this. Rather was the result an
illustration of the moral influence of a
bowler like O’Reilly on a
team which, with one or
two exceptions, was com-
posed of second - class
players. Ward also deserves
a lot of credit for his ex-
cellent showing both with
bat and ball, and seems to
be only now producing his
best Australian form.
England, starting its
second innings 42 to the
bad, could only muster 99
against the bowling of
O’Reilly and Ward. Smith,
of Derbyshire, who was a
favorite in some quarters
for Test selection, hit out
for 26, but, barring- War-
burton (11) and the vocifer-
ous Duckworth (15), no one
else made double figures.
O’Reilly took 5-44, Ward
4-25 and White 1-13.
• 4 • •
The Australians who
knocked off the runs were
Brown (15) and Badcock
(29).
* * , *
Folkestone, where the
Australians tackled another “England”
team on Saturday, is, like Blackpool, what
is called in England “a seaside resort.” It
differs from many others in that there
is some real sea about, and that it
considers itself to possess a ton which
places it in another category from that
dreadful Blackpool. It is also a great
shipping port for the Continent, and
during the war many thousands went
from it that never came back.
The industries of Folkestone are
peculiar. During the winter the people
who let summer lodgings go into hiber-
nation. With the first breath of sum-
mer they emerge hungry and raging and
fall with the utmost ferocity upon
strangers arriving by train. Many a
weak-minded soul who had intended
Paris to be his objective has found him-
self located in what Dickens calls “a
three pair back,” with a beautiful view
of the sea —distant only 15 minutes by
Shanks’s pony. At other seasons the
town finds profit in selling infallible
preventives of seasickness to passengers
about to cross the Channel, and much
more infallible restoratives to the
homing birds who have just crossed it.
For those that like that sort of thing
there are Roman ruins innumerable,
Folkestone being one of the dozen places
on the coast of Kent where that snappy
military special correspondent J. Caesar
landed in England.
{Continued on next page.)


The Worlds Best
BATTERIES
FOR CARS & TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
TRUCK BUYERS demanded it.
FORD built it..
B?«Swwv‘ , wsw
wmmmmm
A New Dependable FORD V«
Gross vehicle capacity 16,000 lbs. 134
in. and 157 in. wheelbase models.
Tyres: 2, 7.00 x 20 on 6 in. rims, 4,
34 x 7 10-ply on 7 in. rims.
BUILT INTO THE NEW 4-TONNER ARE THESE VALUE FEATURES:
• Heavy-duty frame with inner section and special cross member.
• Heavy-duty springs, capacity 18.850 lbs. 6-leaf auxiliary springs
standard equipment.
• Drive taken through torque tube and radius rods, relieving springs
of all driving and braking stresses.
• Special heavy-duty rear axle
assembly.
• Centrifores truck clutch, 11 in. dia-
meter, 123.7 sq. in friction area.
• Self-energising brakes with 488*
sq. in. braking area.
8 FORWARD SPEEDS (optional at
slight extra cost) increases haulage
ability by 27% and gives the V-8
4-Tonner tremendous reserve power for
' off-the-road" work in quarries, etc.
Lei your local Ford Dealer place one
of the new 4-Tonners at your disposal
to test on your own job. Enquire also
about the special body types and
equipment available. Convenient
purchase terms available.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
10 H.P. UTILITIES
10 H.P. Chassis - - - - £2OO
Roadster Utility ----- £250
Coupe Utility £270
V-8 UTILITIES
Chassis - - - - - . .£240
Enclosed cab platform body -' £303
„ „ straightside body £304
„ „ welltype body - £306
„ „ dropside body - £3OB
Roadster utility straightside body £309
» welltype body - £309
Coupe utility straightside body £321
» „ welltype body - £321
(All
PANEL VANS
10 H.P. Panel Van - - - .£270
V-8 Panel Van ..... £320
V-8 TRUCKS (Chassis prices)
122" W.B. 20/25 cwt. single
rear wheels ... - £286
134" W.B. 30 cwt. single rear
wheels £292
157" W.B. 30/40 cwt. single
rear wheels .... £302
134" W.B. 2 Ton dual rear
wheels £3OB
157" W.B. 2 Ton dual rear
wheels £316
Forward control 118" W.B.
dual rear wheels - - £340
prices F. 0.8. Ford Plant, Plus Sales Tax)
V-8 HEAVY-DUTY
3- TRUCKS (Chassis prices)
134 W.B. 3 Ton dual rear
wheels £335
157" W.B. 3 Ton dual rear
wheels £344
185" W.B. Ton dual rear
0 .wheels £397
Special Bus Chassis, double
drop frame 185" W.B. - £367
V-8 HEAVY DUTY
4- TRUCKS (Chassis prices)
134" W.B. 4 Ton dual rear
wheels £348
157" W.B. 4 Ton dual rear
wheels £357
FORD
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) F28G.24H
Warner picked a very sound English
batting side to face our men, who, with
the still lame Fingleton in, could only
muster the eleven men. The side was
Valentine, Levett, Ames, Woolley, Todd,
Fagg (men of Kent), Paynter and Wil-
kinson (Lancashire), A. V. and G. H.
Pope (Derbyshire) and Compton
(Middlesex).
Wicket, weather and pitch were all
on good behavior when McCabe won
the toss and batted. The side began
badly, Australia losing Brown, Bad-
cock, Hassett and Fingleton for 74
runs. A. V. Pope bowled Brown for
3, but Badcock was going in promis-
ing style when he was run out for 21.
Todd bowled Hassett for 18, and Fingle-
ton went to Compton for 12. Barnes
(91) and Barnett (82) came to the rescue
once more, and, with Waite (50 mo.)
and O’Reilly (28 n. 0.) coming to light,
it was 8 for 366 at stumps. McCabe,
unhappy again, made 26.
Barnes was slow, but Barnett got his
82 in 90 minutes.
* * * *
“Bramall Lane”: Australian ’keeper
Walker’s finger, broken just before he
left Australia, has gone for the second
time in England. Walker should never
have been allowed tp leave Australia with
a just-healed injury of this sort, for the
odds are 100 to 1 on its repeating itself
where an Aunt Sally is concerned. It
is not as if he were an exceptional
stumper or batsman or that there was no
one in Australia who could fill his place
more than adequately. The same may be
said of bowler McCormick, afflicted with
muscular trouble long before he left Aus-
tralia, and laid up more than once with
it on the present tour.
Footbrawl
Another premiership for Collingwood?
The team with the famous system is cer-
tainly coming with a great run at the
right time. Though it looked out of the
contest a month ago it made “the four,”
and it galloped away from Footscray ili-
the first of the season’s semi-finals. ’Wood
was ahead 9-1 to 6-11 at the end of the
second quarter, and when the bell rang
again it had 16-5 to 8-16. The finish
saw it with 18-9 to 10-16. It’s Carlton v.
Geelong next Saturday, then ’Wood
against the winner.
* * # *
This year’s Brownlow Medal for the
fairest and best player in Vic. League
football goes to Dick Reynolds, the 23-
year-old colt who roves for Essendon.
Reynolds now equals Haydn Bunton’s
record, having won the distinction three
times —two years in succession.
* * * *
Randwick, Western Suburbs, Drum-
moyne and Manly are “the four” for
Sydney’s Rugby Union semi-finals.
’Wick’s position wasn’t in doubt; West
and Drummoyne made theirs secure
with wins on Saturday; Manly, beaten
then, scraped in on percentages from
St. George, Gordon and North —all four
finished level. For once University was
last. Randwick accounted for North
in a ragged game, 11-6; three tries
to one. West, the backs combining
well, downed Manly 19-9 —four tries to
none. Drummoyne gave the St. Joseph’s
centre Carrick a game, but placed him
on the wing, and the only two occasions on
which he handled the ball he had to go
looking for it. Still, up against St.
George, the Reds were never troubled —
25-8, five tries to two.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian Rugby team
downed in Adelaide reports greatly-
improved form by the Wheatfielders.
One discovery is Portus—his professorial
pa, if memory serves, was also an Oxford
blue —who has returned to his native land
after a spell at Oxford, where he played
for the University and Blackheath. The
Victorians report him as a slashing out-
side centre. The attention of the
N.S.W.R.U. selectors, if any of them
are awake, is directed to the fact in view
of the Australians’ tour of England.
* * * *
Youngest of the Sydney Rugby League
clubs, Canterbury-Bankstown won the
premiership by beating East 19-6. Tries
were three to two.
*** • *
The first Soccer “Test” between India
and Australia was very like the India-
N.S.W. game. The Indians were speedy
and clever, but their defenders could not
keep the home men out. Australia, 5-3.
Racquet and Bawl
The Australian Davis Cup team
went down in the opening singles
at Germantown (U.S.A.). Quist, whom
all hands and the cook tipped to
down Riggs, was beaten 4-6, 6-0, 8-6,
6-1, the love set being one of
those things the most accomplished
expert in the press stand was unable to
visualise. Playing much better than his
team-mate, Bromwich extended Budge,
carrying the champion to four hard-
fought sets —6-2, 6-3, 4-6, 7-5. There
are cable complaints that the courts were
in bad nick, only half-grassed ; but that
would be as bad for the Yanks as for
our lads.
The Yanks swept through the first set
of the doubles 6-0, and had hopes of
making it three-nothing. But the Aus-
tralians took the next three 6-3, 6-4, 6-2.
As one super-optimist broadcast then
“the result of the tie only depends upon
Quist beating Budge.” Hopman was
“still optimistic.”
* * % *
Playing a strong American team on a
Long Island “millionaires’ playground,”
the Australian girls did better than the
boys. Thelma Coyne accounted for
Helen Jacobs 6-2, 6-2. The Misses
Stevenson and Wynne also won their
singles matches against Miss Bundy and
Mrs. Fabyan respectively. In doubles
the Coyne and Wynne girls beat Miss
Jacobs and Mrs. Fabyan 6-3, 6-4, and the
other pair, Mrs. Hopman and Miss
Stevenson, lost 4-6, 6-8.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The misunder-
standing over the inviting of the Yug
tennis players to Australia has been
shown to have arisen from N.S.W. butt-
ing in and communicating with the Yugs
direct as if it ran the show. The result
was a spragging of the wheels and a lot
of misunderstanding, which is likely to
be resented in Yugdom. The body in
Melbourne is to write to its erring sister
pointing out that no correspondence may
be had with visiting or intending visiting
teams save by the body in Melbourne.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Bobby Locke, who
reaches Fremantle on September 13, will
tour M.L. and play in the championships
there from November 10-18. Mean-
while he will come east through the Aus-
tralian States from Westralia to Bris-
bane, playing exhibitions and matches.
Sydney will see him from September 30
to October 6 ; he will appear in one
or two country towns as well. After a
week in Brisbane he returns to Sydney
for four days before sailing for M.L. on
October 18. He comes back to Sydney
about November 25, and after visiting
Melbourne and Tassie will sail for home
on December 31.
* * • . * ¥
“Divot Digger”: Von Nida will go to
M.L. to compete in the open champion-
ship in November, where he will have a
chance to clash with Locke. Williams
may accompany Von Nida and take in
the amateur event as well as the open.
The Australian professional will have
the example of Kirkwood to spur him
on, Joseph having won the M.L. open in
1920. After the M.L. show Von N. goes
to the Philippines to defend his cham-
pionship won there last year, and then
to the U.S.A.
Miscellaneous
In an exhibition spin over a mile at
Toronto Bobby Pearce beat fellow-Aus-
tralians Evans Paddon, Cook and See in
6min. 8 l-ssec., Paddon by five lengths.
Pearce and Paddon are to meet over
three miles for the world’s professional
championship on Friday. Paddon expects
to do a lot better; staying is his forte.
*• * $
“Whizz”: The English driver Eyston
has smashed the land speed record.
At Bonneville (U.S.A.), he averaged
345.49 m.p.h. for a two-ways run, the
first trip being knocked off at 347.79
m.p.h. and the second at 343.48. Eyston’s
previous best was 312.2 m.p.h., Malcolm
Camobell’s 301.47 m.n.h.


THE PRIZEWINNERS.
First Limerick Competition.
FIRST PRIZE, £4O.
D. C. Muir, 13 Coleridge Street,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
TEN £1 PRIZES:
Alfred W. Hodges, State Taxation
Office, Brisbane.
J. F. Daly, 25 Paul Street, Waverley,
N. S. Wales.
M. R. Manchee, Weetah, Marambir,
N. S. Wales.
H. C. Price, 312 George Street,
Sydney.
Mrs. D. Gourlay, 18 Koruah Road,
Turramurra, N. S. Wales.
N. A. Brown, Tarpunga, Balldale,
N. S. Wales.
Stephen H. Nicol, via Cardwell,
North Q.
J. J. Kemp (Junior), Junabee, via
Warwick, Q.
Mrs. M. A. Pooley, 7 View Street,
Arncliffe, N. S. Wales.
Mrs. A. A. Walker, 13 Beauchamp
Avenue, Chatswood, N.S.W.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
The First Limericks.
The response to the first Bulletin
Limerick Competition, running into
more than two thousand entries from all
over Australia and M.L., was not unex-
pected in view of the attractive prize-
money and the absence of entry fee. As
the competition progresses there will
probably be many more entries.
But what was surprising was the evi-
dence it gave of the deep interest every-
where in the achievements of the Prime
Minister. About 500 competitors thought
fit to comment on that aspect of his fame
which led The Bulletin’s “T. the R.”
not long ago to refer to him as “inde-
scribably parental.”
Two of the many good lines on this
noble subject took £1 prizes. Alfred W.
Hodges, of Brisbane, declaimed with a
fire worthy of Newbolt at his best:
Take the torch! Joe has lighted the fuse!
“Take the Torch!”
J. F. Daly, of Waverley (N.S.W.), was
more cautious:
Take a tip from Joe Lyons—then muse.
A man who has more reason to “muse”
than most of his fellows —Mr. Dionne —
rivalled Mr. Lyons in popular esteem.
There was a passing reference to his ex-
ploit in the Limerick that took the £4O
first prize; and, among the many other
tributes, that of M. R. Manchee, of
Marambir, was considered worth a £1
prize for its plaintive simplicity:
Some Mrs. Dio..nes we could use.
Dionne no doubt was the spiritual
father of another thought that took a £1
prize. H. C. Price, of Sydney, suggested
Six (over the fence) WOULD be news!
Mr. Hughes himself came in for com-
ment. Competitors by the score told
him to go to “blithering blazes,” arid half
a dozen others all had the same thought
that it was just “a ruse to keep Hughes
in the news.” Mrs. D. Gourlay, putting
neatly, if ungrammatically, a complaint
that was fairly common, takes a £1 prize
with:
Not me—l am past it —but yousel
Large numbers of entries had to be
submitted to the grim scrutiny of the
religious editor. Eventually he fainted
under the repeated shocks, and while he
was being revived with a tot of cocoa,
The Religious Editor Fainted.
£1 was stealthily awarded to N. A.
Brown, of Balldale, N. S. Wales, for:
So enthuse on boo-hoos, not on booze.
Similar unscrupulous advantage was
taken to slip past £1 worth of worldly
wisdom from Stephen H. Nicol, of Card-
well, N.Q.:
With all due respect to who’s whose.
And similarly with a cri du cceur from
J. J. Kemp (Jun.), of Junabee, Q.:
Well—put me in Solomon’s shoes!
The remaining two £1 prizes went to
lines that just missed the £4O prize by
a whisker. Mrs. M. A. Pooley, of Arn-
cliffe, N.S.W., submitted ingeniously:
Let “Who’s Who” better use he who woos.
Mrs. A. A. Walker, of Chatswood,
N.S.W., took the other £1 with:
This land of gee-gees with goo-goos.
There were about 50 Limericks very
near the prize-money, and choosing the
winner of the £4O was no easy task.
Eventually it was awarded to D. C. Muir,
of St. Kilda, Vic., for a line that rhymed
correctly and had the ingenuity and the
kick of surprise that a Limerick must
have. The full Limerick, with the win-
ning last line, reads:
A new Father William named Hughes
Is apt with great vim to enthuse:
“Let us populate quickly
And, if possible, thickly
One’s ducky, three’s lucky, five’s news!”
The prize-winning line said “Five’s news.” This is Frith’s idea of a scoop.
“No, No, Nanette ”
It feels a little bit like going back to
the coronation of Queen Victoria to
hear them sing “Tea for Two” and “I
Want to Be Happy” at Sydney Royal,
but at any rate those two songs have
stayed alive and it’s pleasant to hear
them again in their proper setting.
Lois Green knows all the tricks of a
good Nanette, and flirts and rebels very
prettily. Rest of the show is George
Gee. George being gay, George being
guilty, George being (literally and beau-
tifully) a dog in a kennel; and, above
all, George making faces. He makes
lovely faces. There is, too, the heroic
Marie le Varre ; she turns a particularly
doughty handspring.
It’s a bright, light evening ; better sing-
ing voices and more original ballets
would have helped it.
Guila Bustabo.
This 19-year-old violinist made her
first curtsy to Australia at Sydney Town
Hall one night last week, when she was
soloist in a performance of the D Minor
Sibelius Violin Concerto with the A.B.C.
Orchestra under Joseph Post. There
never was a composer who so beautifully
envisioned the violin voice as does the
Finnish composer, and never one whose
intentions have so often been thwarted
by heavy-handed performance. In this
instance the soloist did not disappoint.
Her playing was as free and spontaneous
as the wind that flutters in zephyrs or
roars in gales through Sibelius’s music.
She is a mistress of the floating,
ethereal tone; her bowing is as graceful
as a daffodil swaying on its stalk.
Through all the changes, contrasts and
shifting of rhythms in this remarkably
free-styled composition she sped far
above the orchestral tumult. At the
conclusion there was an outburst of
applause that continued minute after
minute, growing in strength rather than
diminishing, a tremendous ovation that
was only stilled when the orchestra was
called to attention for the conclusion
of the programme dances from De
Falla’s “Three-cornered Hat” suite.
Brahms’s Second Symphony and a Bach
Fantasia and Fugue scored by Flgar
had so-so performances earlier in the
evening.
A more intimate affair was the young
violinist’s first solo recital at Sydney Con.
Hall on Saturday night. She proved her
mastery of tricky technique in Paganini’s
D Major Concerto, delivered Cesar
Franck’s Violin Sonata in A in well-
balanced style and delighted everyone
with the grace of her playing in the
Mozart G Major Concerto. Though a
consummate technician she is palpably
so very young —she looks less than her 19
years—and The glad confident morning
of youth is in her playing. She will be
able to play the Franck with more under-
standing when she is a lot older, but by
then, perhaps, she won’t be such a per-
fect exponent of Mozart —that rare mix-
ture of naivete and superlative elegance.
A Tauber Farewell.
Tauber said his good-byes to Sydney
at the Town Hall one night last week
by singing all the lieder that had
proved most popular during his stay in
the senior capital—Schubert’s “Linden
Tree” and “Serenade,” Schumann’s “Two
Grenadiers,” Liszt’s “Liebestraum,” and
so forth. He wound up with a valedic-
tory ditty from “White Horse Inn” after
a speech in which he said he had been
accused of being a “lowbrow,” but was
unrepentant. It was notable that all the
“request” items given were in the tenor’s
middle register—quite the best part of his
voice. “The key of the Town Hall,”
which Herr Tauber said had been be-
queathed to him by American Larry
Tibbett, he conferred, in turn, upon Guila
Bustabo, young violinist from the U.S.A.,
present to receive the courtesy.
Tauber sang his farewell to Melbourne
at the Town Hall. His singing was mag-
nificent. There was scarcely a speck of
dross in the golden metal of his voice.
He hit the right notes with impeccable
musical marksmanship. But a good three-
quarters of the songs he sang were un-
worthy to be sung except by a suburban-
ite in the seclusion of his bath. One of
his ditties filled a previous generation with
such nausea that one would have imag-
ined it had long since died an ignoble
death. Tauber resurrected it and gave
it an unnatural life with every device of
his occasionally somewhat unctuous and
oleaginous art.
“The Rage of Paris .”
Danielle Darrieux and D. Fairbanks, Jun.
One of those slight, frothy farce-
comedies that depend for effect upon
bright dialogue and quick action. Plot
is as old as Noah—penniless but pretty
girl is installed in swish hotel with lavish
wardrobe so that she may marry a rich
man; backers, a head waiter (Mischa
Auer) and an ex-actress (Helen
Broderick), are to be recouped after the
wedding. Sardonic young man (D. Fair-
banks, jun.) who exposes the build-up
eventually falls for the girl himself.
Danielle Darrieux, the new star, is
Frenchy if not French ; her pet expres-
sion is one of abysmal innocence. She
is very slim, and her coiffures are many
and fetching. Solidly buttressed by such
old-stagers as Auer and Miss Broderick,
she is able to make the most of her talent
of exotic vivacity. There is a scene that
looks like the beginning of a strip-tease
act in one of the introductory sequences,
but either it wasn’t intended to go far
or Cresswell O’Reilly trod on it. At Syd-
ney State.
“Tough Little Guy.”
Intention of this opus, snappily acted
by juveniles, was to sketch the making
of a gangster and the nipping of the
process in the bud by a dose of reform
school, but the censor cut out various
holdups and car-robberies, a case of
arson, a gunfight with cops, a smoking-
out with tear-gas bombs, and the wiping
out of a young gangster by machine-gun
bullets, and what is left is some rather
tame squabbles between hobbledehoys
and anxious flutterings by a beauteous
sister who for some not very clear reason
attempts to give her finance the impres-
sion that she’s leading the gay life. The
end comes in what appears to be the
middle of the plot’s development. At
Sydney State.
“The Sheik.”
Rudolph Valentino, Agnes Ayres, Adolphe
Menjou.
According to the blurb sheet the resur-
rection of this old “silent,” now at the
Sydney Lyceum, has been “demanded”
by the “intense public enthusiasm for the
great screen lover that has never waned,
etc. In other words, the film barons
hope to cash in o.n the publicity whipped
up for them by the hordes of flappers,
young and old, who apparently still wor-
ship at this pretty boy’s shrine.
Revival of the film raises immediate
sympathy for the filmgoers of a decade
ago who sat it out without once bursting
into a laugh, for mirth is all that is in-
spired to-day by the wooden posturings
and bellowdramatic rantings of the prin-
cipals and the stodgy situations of the
tripey story. When the desert hero,
after leading a few thousand tribesmen
to capture a lone white woman who is
travelling with an escort of one, heaves
her into his luxurious tent and dramati-
cally declaims “Are you not woman
enough to know?” in answer to her bone-
headed query, “Why have you brought
'me here?” what modern audience
could do other than laugh? Unfor-
tunately such a gem as “And the woman
pays for the beauty God has given her!’
was not quite drowned by the crunching
of peanut shells. The sad fact emerges
that what was once dubbed a “screen
classic” is now a pale burlesque.
The acting technique of Rhubarb —no,
Rudolph—was limited to pushing his eye-
brows furiously up and down and some-
times even sideways, setting his jaws
sternly, making his sable eyes gleam and
half-veiling the lids when he wanted to
register amorousness. The scrawny Agnes
Ayres’s two most pressing needs appear
to be a good square feed and a lengthy
course in dramatic tuition. The only one
in ■ the- bunch that looks like an actor
is Adolphe Menjou, recognisable behind
a set of moustachios waved like William
Hohenzollern’s in his pre-Doorn days.
A lot of good, clean sand is made
untidy by corpses lying around after two
sheiks have a barney over a damsel who
would be unlikely to get into the harem
of even the most unwashed desert chief-
tain. Eventually the sheik’s nasty rival
bounces what the coroners call a “blunt
instrument” off his dome and the poor
Bedouin tears around the desert looking
for his lost love. The revival of the film
does one sterling service—it kills for ever
those “classics” of the silent film.
“The Son of the Sheik.”
Rudolph Valentino, Vilma Banky.
The technique being not quite so crude
and the acting not quite so bad as in
“The Sheik,” this later Valentino film, is
to that extent not so funny. But, like
the other, it is as flat as yesterday’s beer.
The model of masculine beauty who
caused pigtailed college girls 12 years
ago to sigh deeply and go off their
tucker strides around with his head en-
cased in a sort of striped towel, with a
small marquee thrown about him, cast-
ing off his desert girl friend, who he
-thinks has acted treacherously with a
never-darken-my-oasis-again look, and
giving an endless exhibition of blowing
cigarette smoke through his nostrils,
what time he isn’t smirking at his latest
sweetie like a sick prawn. Vilma Banky
is an improvement on Agnes Ayres in
the role of heroine, though she is third-
rate on present standards. There is a lot
of furious action and a sandstorm, un-
fortunately not strong enough to blot out
everyone concerned in the making of the
picture. At Sydney Mayfair.
“Cowboy from Brooklyn .”
Dick Powell, Dick Foran, Pat O’Brien.
This support at the Sydney Mayfair is
a turn-up for the books. Those who go
to scoff (a natural inclination) on seeing
that crooner Dick Powell and singing
cowboy Dick Foran are billed in the
same film will remain to laugh, for it is
an uproarious comedy that sparkles from
start to finish. There is a minimum of
mush, and even some of the songs about
Wyomin’ are catchily tuneful.
It opens promisingly with Dick Powell
and two equally impoverished musical
pals being heartlessly pushed off a freight
train which they had “jumped.” To the
dude ranch on which they land an enter-
taining job comes vacation-seeking Pat
O’Brien, live-wire showman. Before the


Limerick
Competitions
For Each of These Competitions £5O in Prize-money
Second Competition:—
£5O PRIZES
First Prize . . . . £4O
Ten Other Prizes . £1
Closing Date September 16.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space provided
for the purpose, cut out the whole coupon, and post to reach
Limericks No. 2”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than September 16.
Results of this Second Limerick Competition will be
announced in “The Bulletin” of September 21.
Any competitor may send in as many entries as he or
she wishes for this or succeeding competitions, but each entry
must be filled in on a Limerick Coupon.
“The Bulletin” wants to publish the prize-winning lines,
so competitors are warned that it will be the best publishable
entries that will collect the cash.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.,
Ltd., is eligible to compete. Otherwise these competitions
are open to all, free of any entrance charge.
SECOND LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME .!
ADDRESS
(In block letters)
Said a housewife residing at Clare:
“This is more than 1 really can bear!
Again, you black sinner,
You re late home to dinner
Third Competition: £5O Prizes.
Prize-money for the Third Limerick Competition is the
same as for the First and Second: £4O First Prize and ten
other Prizes of £1 each. It will close on September 30, and
results will be announced in “The Bulletin” of October 5.
Conditions are the same as stated above for the Second
Competition.
This announcement will be repeated in “The Bulletin”
of September 14 and September 21, and coupons may be
filled in from those issues or from the present one. It is
announced this much in advance of the closing date in order
to give readers in distant parts every chance.
For the Third Competition, add a last line to the
Limerick in the coupon below, cut out the whole coupon and
post to reach
"Limericks No. 3,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than September 30.
THIRD LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME ..
ADDRESS
(In block letters)
The reason I'm stony to-day
Is not just the taxes I pay :
They called it a “horse” —
Oh, “a dead cert.” of course,
echoing screech of his final tyre skid has
died away he has signed crooner Dick on
the dotted line for the inevitable radio
hour. When the scene shifts to N’Yark
the fun becomes fast and furious, reach-
ing a hectic climax when the alleged
cowboy-crooner, who has a hereditary
terror of all animals, has to do some
bulldogging in a rodeo to land a film
contract.
Pat O’Brien, speaking at 400 w.p.m.,
and Dick Powell turn in sparkling per-
formances in roles that suit them to a T.
They are aided and abetted by Priscilla
Lane, a promising comedienne, and
Hobart Cavanaugh.
“Expert’s Opinion.”
Leslie Perrins, Lucille Lisle, Laurence Hanray.
Except for a story which would make
the first literary effort of a backward 12-
year-old seem brilliant by comparison,
directing commensurate with the story’s
merit and acting about four grades
lower than the other two phases of the
production, there is little wrong with
this opus. In fact, one “shot” of a couple
of men drinking double-header whiskies
is quite good.
Nobody seems to know what is the
tie-up between the music-hall murder
which opens the proceedings and the sub-
sequent espionage involving a secret gun
produced by a comic-opera armament
firm ; but this is a mere trifle. Highlight
of the piece is where the wanton wife of
the honest inventor, in a fit of remorse
for having brainlessly spilled the secret
to the heavy villain who is her lover,
tears from villain’s boiled shirt the cuff
on which he has scribbled the secret for-
mula and reduces it to ashes with a
match in 3 l-ssec. It must have been
made of celluloid.
The fillum at least solves the vexed
question as to the world’s worst actor.
The gilded raspberry goes to Kim Pea-
cock, who would have been a wild suc-
cess in “The Streets of London” 50 years
ago. One gleam through the murk is a
coronial inquiry, in which Laurence
Hanray as the coroner gives a neat
cameo. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Bar 20 Justice.”
Bill Boyd and George Hayes.
This must be somewhere near the
thirtieth of the Hopalong Cassidy screen
scenes of Western romances. The plot
is as plain, the action as brisk and well
balanced, and the denouement as satis-
factory in this as in all the preceding
cases. This time the villain of the piece
is a mineowner who has the owner of
a neighboring rich mine assassinated so
that he may secretly work the mine at
night with his own men. The imperturb-
able Mr. Cassidy (W. Boyd), aided by
the hirsute Windy (G. Hayes), rounds up
the evildoers with neatness and dispatch.
Once again Mr. Cassidy narrowly escapes
matrimonial entanglement with a widow.
This is his fourth or fifth survival, but
Mr. Boyd is a great horseman rather
than a great lover, and his limitations are
respected. At Sydney Civic.
“Bulldog Drummond’s Peril.”
John Barrymore, Reginald Denny and John
Howard.
Exceptionally good casting makes this
thriller the most effective to date of the
various efforts that have been made to
put “Sapper’s” big amateur sleuth on the
screen. Howard, who plays the part, is
just a bit too well-groomed, but other-
wise satisfactory, and Denny’s impersona-
tion of Algy Longworth is delightful.
Barrymore, as the head of Scotland Yard,
overacts all through. The fantasia is
supposed to be based on The Third
Round, but the plot has no recognisable
features. Touches of humor brighten in-
credible happenings, and action is com-
mendably swift. At Sydney Civic.
“The Hit Parade.”
A crooning and hoofing show that is
no better or worse than one hundred and
one similar turnouts. Phil Regan as a
breezy, young radio publicity agent is
left in the lurch by Louise Henry, a
songbird from a Park-avenue family,
who has objections to crooning and
yearns to be a highbrow warbler. Phil
sets out to find a more amenable substi-
tute for the radio hour he runs. Accom-
panied by a ventriloquist he does a round
of night clubs, cabarets and music halls
in search of talent —an excuse for the
producer to feature various crooners,
dancers, jazz bands and patter merchants.
He locates his ideal—Francis Langford—
in a beer garden, and after he has coached
her in the dubious art of moaning blue
songs she blossoms into a big hit in the
radio field. Louise Henry, now very
much on the outer, learns that Francis
was once in prison—wrongly, of course,
as it turns out —and she spills the beans
in the press. There’s talk about Francis
going back to the jug—she broke her
parole—but Phil rallies the boys and girls
of the microphone and they stage a testi-
monial function. The crooners and the
swing orchestras put it over in such style
that Francis is acquitted, though there
are circles in which the performance
would have ensured her imprisonment
for life. Several of the performers who
appear are well known to Australian
radio listeners per medium of imported
recordings. At Sydney Capitol.
“The Black Doll.”
Donald Woods, the young sleuth in this
thriller, soon discovers that any one of
half a dozen suspects might have hurled
the knife which killed C. Henry Gordon.
The deceased was a particularly nasty
gentleman—ls years before his demise
he had murdered a partner in a mining
deal, and he terrorised his relatives,
friends and servants. Woods is sum-
moned to the case by Gordon’s daughter
—Nan Grey—obviously not guilty of
patricide. Those under suspicion include
the dead man’s sister and nephew, a pair
of shady business associates, a medico
and a sinister-looking Spanish servant.
Woods is not long on the job when, as is
usual in such films, the field is narrowed
—the Spanish servant and one of
Gordon’s business cronies being respec-
tively throttled and shot. An incredibly
bumptious and muddle-headed sheriff —
Edgar Kennedy—and a posse of foolish
offsiders hamper Woods in his investiga-
tions. Doors mysteriously open and shut,
queer noises are heard, a storm rages
outside and a black doll —used by the
murderer as a trade-mark—appears and
disappears in a bewildering fashion. Dur-
ing the last 500 feet of film the remain-
ing suspects are mustered in the approved
manner while Donald Woods proceeds to
unravel the mystery in the usual
omniscient way. It ends with the sheriff
marching off the guilty one and wedding
bells in the offing for Donald and Nan.
Acting passable, story not so fresh,
photography murky.
“The Texans.”
“Mighty successor to ‘The Plainsman,’
and filmed on a gigantic scale,” says the
blurb about this Prince Edward attrac-
tion. “See 10,000 cattle forced through
the raging Rio Grande! See the scream-
ing attack of scalping Indian warriors!
See the roaring fury of vast prairie fires! ”
The film has action and melodrama
enough to satiate the greediest seeker of
thrills, but it falls short of “The Plains-
man,” which also dealt with America’s
pioneering days, because its producer is
more concerned with adventurous asides
than with the theme of the film.
The story is set in the reconstruction
period following America’s Civil War
when the South was oppressed by cor
rupt officials and sucked dry by unjus:
taxes. The restrictions and political job
bery divided the South into many war
ring factions. Some wanted to enlist out
side aid to fight the army of crooks that
had seized control; others wanted to clear
out to distant pastures where they would
be safe from the rascally taxgatherers
and cheats.
Randolph Scott, a demobbed Con-
federate soldier, is one of those who seek
peace and escape. With Joan Bennett,
whom he has wooed, he sets out with
10,000 head of cattle into unknown coun-
try, braving the perils of Indians, snow-
storms, sandstorms and pursuing sol-
diers.
The story falls to pieces at this stage,
but some will find recompense in the stir-
ring scenes of the trek. The cattle
become the chief actors and put on a
remarkable show. There is an awe-inspir-
ing quality in the spectacle of them cross-
ing a river in flood and in the wild
stampeding when the Indians set the
prairie on fire.
Through all these vicissitudes Joan
Bennett remains immaculately lovely as
ever and loyal to Randolph Scott, always
adequate to his heroic role. May Robson,
as Granna, furnishes another shrewd and
vigorous portrayal. Walter Brennan.
Robert Cummins, Robert Barrat and
Harvey Stephens also do well.
War Echoes in Adelaide.
The returned soldiers of S..A. have had
the odd inspiration of reviving “Journey’s
End” at Adelaide Royal. It is an artistic
success certainly, but a shade gloomy
for the public of to-day. The acting is
by amateurs, but Adelaide’s standard is
high. In the well-known story, the best
chances go to Ray Walsh as the kindly
senior, Keith MacDonald as the hard-
pushed commander, Phil Peake as the
nervous wreck, and Harding Browne as
the youngster. Rex Dawe and McCarron
are skilled in such comic relief as there
is, and Alan Chapman produces the
effective show.


ORIENT LINE
Inie October
CRUISE
m
IS3S
m
#»>
'
=*|y
aacL yOelJbruqtori bi]
ORCADES
23,456 TONS
include steamer or rail ticket Sydney-Brisbane after the Cruise.
OTHER NEW ZEALAND CRUISES:
Christmas, "ORFORD" « New Year, "OTRANTO" • Late Jan'y, "ORONSAY '
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO.LTD.
INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
{ v
/fig
' • #
is : *is
wtrhi
m.
838$
It's double-duty
for your Nerves
these days /
Feed your JVerves with
OVALTINE
and note the Difference/
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial sample of
“Ovaltine,” sufficient to make four cupsful,
will be sent on receipt of 3d. in stamps to
cover cost of packing and postage.
Prices: 1/9, 2/19, 5/- at all Chemists and Stores.
A. WANDER LIMITED, 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
Sggffi
i
m
IF
'
m?
500 Genuine
•HAWAIIAN GUITARS
GIVEN AWAY FREE
AM AZIN G OFFER TO ALL
STUDENTS BOOKING UP
FOR THE LANGFORD
GUITAR COURSE.
Now YOU can learn to play the instrument you’ve
always admired—the Hawaiian Guitar. Beloved by
the Film Stars, enjoyed by folks the world over, its
glamorous pulsating melody will bring the warm
romance of far-off sunny lands into youi ov n home,
•lust think of it! Under this amazing new system I
have evolved you’ll find yourself an accomplished
player in a few short weeks and you can do this at
home, without the necessity of torturing scales and
endless drudgery!
YOU CAN’T
GO WRONG
This course is the
result of many
years’ research both
on my part and that
of our Mr. Skinner,
Australia’s leading
Guitar teacher and
virtuoso. Every-
thing is so simple
and easy to under-
stand that' it is im-
possible to go
wrong.
I WILL GIVE 500
GUITARS AWAY
FREE!
,)ust think of it—a lovely
Hawaiian Guitar, per-
fectly finished, gloriously
toned, an instrument
you’ll be proud to own
AND play for years’
And it’s yours FREE!
providing you decide to
book up for this amazing
home-study course. I
must have your applica-
tion right away, how-
ever, and time is precious,
for this offer is subject
to a definite time limit.
Hurry the Coupon along
NOW !
Introduced but a few short
mouths ago, this course is
already acclaimed an outstand-
ing success by hundreds of
happy students.
I want YOU to be the next!
LEN LANGFORD
guitar school
327 George Street, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 83073.
MAIL COUPOKI HOW
The Principal,
lien Langford Guitar School,
327 George Street, Sydney.
Enclosed is 4d. in stamps. Please send
me full details of your free Hawaiian
Guitar offer and Home Study Course,
together with your Booklet.
NAME
address
U.G.I
“Mine-Tinkit”: An ambulance-bearer,
on his way to an urgent case at a small
township near Atherton (N.Q.), pulled
up at a store to buy cigarettes. The local
constable, scenting trouble from an acci-
dent, asked him what was the matter
and was it serious. “Oh, yes, very ; it s
obstetric,” said the bearer as he went
in. A puzzled copper was waiting
outside when he came out. "And is it
a man or woman?” he asked.
* * * *
“Porro Man”: West Coast of Africa
football authorities are perturbed over the
manner in which magical practices are
being introduced to the game. The goal-
keepers —the game is Soccer, of course —
habitually rely on charms purchased from
the magicians which divert the ball from
the mouth of the goal or are supposed to.
These charms are either'tied to the goal-
posts or muttered by the goalie when
feeling too tired to move for a hot shot.
Often the charm doesn’t work and the
goalie comes in for criticism from his
mates. It is then that he is apt to call
on the magician with an axe and demand
his money back, with often regrettable
consequences.
* * * *
“Moderne”: They certainly bred 'em
lough a couple of generations back. My
doctor recently advised a patient of 82
that she must take things more easily.
“Does that mean that 1 must give up
doing the washing?” she asked with con-
cern. “Yes,” he told her, “and cutting
the wood, too.” “But,” she exclaimed
in guilty surprise, “however did you
know I still cut the wood?”
* * * *
“Anthropc”: With regard to the sug-
gested link between the Eskimo and the
Maori (B. 3/8/’3B), there is more re-
semblance between the Australian abo.
and the North American Indian. Con-
sider totemism, the mythical deriving of
a family-tree from some animal or bird.
Both races followed this cult in a manner
so similar that it is difficult to conceive
of the idea originating separately at
points so far apart. Again, consider the
severity of the initiation into manhood
practised by both races, the ultimate aim
being the placing of a premium on the
stoical endurance of pain. Preparing for
the ceremony, abo. boys and Indian
youths both practised one method of
“hardening”: the placing of a live coal
on the flesh and letting it lie there until
it cooled. Yet, despite this social simi-
larity, how different the physiognomy of
the two races—the Indian with hatchet
face, the Australian at the other extreme.
MI v ¥
The Explorer.
(By “ 0.D.”)
The motorist stopped his car in the
middle of the busy street and got out.
Paying no attention to the hooting of
cars, clanging of tram bells, curses and
screams and shouts that besieged him,
he rigged a theodolite, set up a prismatic
compass, then climbed to the roo£ of
his car and waited for a break in the
clouds, a sextant to his eyes.
A policeman elbowed his way,through
the crowd.
“I beg your pardon, sir,” he began,
“I am a member of the courtesy squad
and beg to inquire what your business
is. Of course, if you’re from the Tram-
ways, the Water and Sewerage Board, the
Land Board, the Harbor Trust, the Elec-
tricity, Transport or Weights and Meas-
ures Department, I’ll just move these
people on and let you get about your
business. But are you?”
“I am not,” replied the motorist, one
eye on a break in the clouds.
“Then, sir,” said the constable, a little
coldly, “may I inquire why you are caus-
ing this traffic block?”
“I,” replied the motorist, “am en-
deavoring to locate the true positions of
north, south, and east. Having done
that, I will then have the exact position
of the west.”
“And then?” asked the constable,
above the raging bedlam around them.
“Then,” cried the motorist trium-
phantly, pointing dramatically, “I shall be
able to park my car while I post a letter
without danger of a traffic breach!”
In dead silence every tramdriver and
passenger, every taximan and truck
chauffeur followed the policeman’s eyes
to the round yellow disk standing in the
gutter and read on it, in bold black
letters, the dread warning: NO PARK-
ING WEST OF THIS NOTICE.
And suddenly realising that not one
of them, not even the constable, knew
which was the west side of the disk,
they silently drifted away.


AMAZING NEW TOMATOES!
CLIMBING TOMATO (imported). Amazing
introduction. Climbs to 20ft. on trellis, fence,
netting. BEARS THROUGHOUT THE YEAR
Yields TWO BUSHELS large (3*in. x 2*in.)
red, meaty Tomatoes per plant. AMAZINGLY
PRODUCTIVE. SOW NOW. Government
tested seed (93 per cent, germination in 7 days),
2/6 packet, posted.
PURE WHITE TOMATO! (Imported)
“White Beauty.” Skin, flesh, juice and seeds
PURE WHITE. Amazing new 100 PER CENT
NON-ACID HEALTH TOMATO (non-injuri-
ous), LUSCIOUS FLAVOUR. Heavy bearer
Large fruit (siin. x l£lb.). DISEASE FREE!
Easily grown any locality. DROUGHT-
PROOF! Makes delicipus jam. Government
tested seed (germination 85 per cent 1 2/6
packet, posted. SOW NOW. ’
Exclusive Distributors for Southern Hemi-
sphere i
N.S.W. SEED CQ., 17a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
COMING TO ENGLAND?
STAY IN THE HEART OF LONDON.
Choose wisely . . . the MAPLETON ... in
the midst of theatres and shops. 100 bed-
rooms, with bathroom and ’phone. Fully
licensed restaurant open till midnight. Special
terms for Overseas visitors. Details from
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Bachflat, Lesquare, London.
Relieve Eczema
and Itching Skin
|F you suffer from Eczema or other
itching skin complaints, don't delay
proper treatment another day. When
care is not taken, there is a tendency
for the continued irritations and un-
sightly eruptions of the skin to spread
and become chronic. Doan's Oint-
ment will give you quick relief, for it
penetrates to the true skin where the
inflammation lies. It is antiseptic,
healing and quickly allays the irrita-
tion. Be sure you get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
Doans Ointment
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Knight Tom Bavin and his lady, re-
. ceiving a long array of decorated men
and bejewelled women, were the starting
point of the reception in honor of
members of the British Commonwealth
Relations Conference. This had opened
at Sydney Uni. in the morning, and
enthusiasts like Mrs. David Maughan
(she’s official hostess to the conference)
attended. In the evening she and her
husband stood beside the Bavins help-
ing to say welcome. Her frock of
lustrous parchment moire swept into a
long train. The Bavin lady’s gold satins
had long, pointed shoulder scarves, finely
pleated. Color was everywhere. Jade,
amethystine and lilac tones glowed in
the caps worn by many of the Indian
guests.
Mrs. Ghiasuddin, whose husband is
one of India’s delegates, wore her
national dress, made in turquoise and
deep-blue chiffons.
Mrs. Lionel Curtis came with Mrs.
Wilfred Fairfax. Heather Harvey, tall,
slim and very English, wore heavy pink
crepes stencilled in gold. You couldn’t
help noticing Sir John Pratt and his
daughter Diana. They have an air all
their own. Diana’s frock, too, was of
some stiff white and gold fabric. S. G. O.
Martin was at attention all the evening.
He was at the door of the lift like a
shot and attending Lord Lothian when
that nobleman arrived. Everybody ex-
claimed over the lovely Mrs. Donal
O’Sullivan, with her Irish black hair and
her white frock.
Her hair a fluff of curls and her
cherry-and-white chiffons made Mrs.
Harry Hodson look younger than ever.
Lionel Vincent Massey and the blue-
eyed J. Meenan were there. The latter,
by the way, declares that, whenever he
mentions that, with two or three other
Irishmen, he is here on a delegation,
his listeners seem to think they can’t
really be Irish because they aren’t col-
lecting for something. Mrs. C. Burchall,
wife of the Canadian delegate, was with
Thomas Gordon and his lady. Mayor
Nock and his Mayoress, the Bertie Kellys,
Downie Stewart, Miss Macarthur
Onslow, Lesley Corbett and Mrs.
Muscio were others who listened when
Sir Alfred Zimmern, from England, and
Colonel Harrington, from Nova Scotia,
made their speeches.
Commonwealth Treasurer Casey
opened the Society of Artists’ show on
Saturday, but his wife went to the private
view on Friday. So, apparently, did every
other art lover whose leisure does not
depend on the Saturday half-holiday.
President Syd Ure Smith was pleased at
the roll-up and at the congratulations
that rose in floodtide.
The Gruner landscapes (all but one
of them sold before the opening, and
that one, “The Dorrigo Road,” was
snatched up at the private view) made
wars in Spain and China unbelievable.
They breathed such peace. R. H. Mc-
Killop had flown down from Canberra
for the opening.
Gruner himself was there. John Lane
Mullins came with Hilda and Barbara.
Julian Ashton was an early arrival. The
Will Ashtons, of the National Gallery,
were others who stepped across the
threshold before the hour of noon. Mrs.
Rodney Dangar’s black seal cape caused
as much stir as an iceberg dropped in
a polar lagoon. Nora Heysen, whose
flowers breathe fragrance from the walls,
came with the Keith Smith lady. Nora
and Harold Abbott are to be made mem-
bers of the society this year. All the
women raved over Adelaide Perry’s
“Richard,” and a number of them recog-
nised “The Lady with the Fan” as a
portrait of Mrs. George Vivers painted
by Lambert some years ago.
Mrs. Clement Chapman’s figure was
just right for its trig black velvet suit.
Mrs. Walter Burfitt, in black and white,
did the walls carefully. Mrs. F. W. Allen,
Mrs. Wilson, Marie O’Brien and the
graceful Grace Adams East were others
who came to gaze on beauty. Mrs. Greg
McGirr’s opals burned between the black
of her frock and her sable necklet. With
her was daughter Beatrice. The Consul
for Poland and Mrs. de Noskowski were
there ; so were Mrs. Erik Fischer and
Mrs. Vigeveno. Andy Watt, K.C.,
brought daughter Betty ; Brian Cannell
ar *d Coralie Jagelman did the rounds
together. Mrs. Oscar Paul was pretty
a s any picture in blues and mauves.
Maude Sherwood, the Roland Wakelins,
Mrs. Arthur Hordern, J. R. Eldershaw
ar *d Howard Hinton were among the
many.
This is the brilliant Dr. Margot Hentze,
of the North Shore line, returned, after
some years of study and research in
Europe, to an appointment as lecturer in
modern history at Sydney University,
Margot has a rich speaking voice and
rounded, careful diction, so her lectures
should be a joy to the ear. She has spent
a great deal of her time in Italy, and of
its cities Milan makes strongest appeal
to her, though Rome, Florence and
Venice have each a particular niche. Be-
fore taking up her appointment Dr.
Hentze is acting as delegate to the British
Commonwealth Relations Conference.
She’s an ex-pupil of the P.L.C. at Pymble.
Dayne photograph.
The Scholarship Fund for pianist Val
Sulliyan got into its stride last week. A
meeting in Paling’s music hall was intro-
duced by Val playing a short programme.
The amount of help offered was over-
whelmingly generous. At least a dozen
small functions are being arranged to
buttress the big effort. Peggy Bell, Mrs.
Norman Macleod, Mrs. Charles Philip,
the Society of Composers and Authors,
Mrs. W. Fitz Henry and Mrs. H. Bott
are busy on these minor gaieties to help
the great event. Mrs. Ferrari Passmore,
Margaret Chalmers, Betty Higgins,
Walter Dibley and T. C. Talty are
among the office-bearers.
Whatever the delegates to the Common-
wealth Relations Conference were doing
last Thursday, the National Council of
Women bagged a great tally of them for
their four-thirty tea and oratory. Not
W. J. Meenan; anyway, not till after this
Letter left. Where he had taken his
smooth black head and his check muffler
seemed unknown. Lord Lothian was
there, making the ballroom of the Aus-
tralia ring with fact and commonsense.
Ireland’s Mr. Dillon (not unlike Chester-
ton’s Father Brown with his round face
and look of guilelessness) and India’s
Dr. H. M. Kunzru supplied fervor, a
touch of poetry and spirituality. Downie
Stewart, of Maoriland, an invalid since
the war, made a speech as placid and as
sound as the Southland he comes from.
Mrs. Muscio, N.C.W. president, wel-
comed the crowds streaming into the ball-
room of the Australia. Near her stood
Mrs. David Maughan, a gold chain link-
ing the collar of her black frock. The
high pink turban with its large butter-
fly bow worn by Syed A. Ali lit up an
otherwise sombrely-garbed assemblage.
Another figure of interest was Mrs.
Ghiasuddin, who had arrived in the
Cathay only that morning. Heather
is a delegate to the conference. Heather
Harvey, who is important on the delega-
tion secretariat, was a neat figure in a
tailored black coat over a flowered silk
frock. Dr. Hentze, of Sydney Uni., was
crisply tailored in outline. Margaret
Windeyer and Mrs. F. Aronson, two of
the pioneers of the N.C.W., were among
those who listened intently.
Guila Bustabo (which, of course, she
didn’t), dressed in flower-starred tulle of
summer-sky blue, was a picturesque
figure when she played with the Sym-
phony Orchestra. The Sibelius concerto
was the great work, and Guila played like
an inspired seraph. The old English
haircut with the heavy straight fringe
seemed to fit in with frock and music,
and Guila has to be handed one hun-
dred per cent, on all counts. The frock,
incidentally, was a gift from the Baroness
Ravensdale. The violinist’s magnificent
Guarnerius had come from the same
patron of art. The pearl cross that shone
softly against her throat had been given
by the Queen of Rumania. Everything
was very correct.
The Town Hall cenhed with excite-
Ihe town Hal seethed with excite-
ment and good clothes. Noreen Dangar s
SrrVark=r b SwT„"on wa 8 s S a n d applet/
Dowling had just the right degree of
flufflness for a bride-to-be-a swirl of
her was youngman BlakeVelly; Father
and mother the Laidley Dowling couple,
made up the party.
The Lionel Curtises and Heather Har-
vey came with the Wilfred Fairfax couple,
Observers liked Mrs. Rupert Scammell’s
Florentine-blue that went nicely
in company with mink. Mrs. Bustabo
mingled black velvet and silver brocade,
Pamela Laidley Dowling will marry
Blake Pelly, A.D.C. to State Governor
Lord Wakehurst, at the end of the month.
She and her fiance share a fondness for
music—they are to be seen at almost
every concert of note—and poetry.
Pamela’s mother, Mrs. Laidley Dowling,
was a Miss Garvan. Photograph from
Dayne.
T\he star-spangled gaiety of the week
was Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s French night at
the Con. Of course it was really a French
Alliance entertainment, but everything
had been organised and directed by Mrs.
Kelly. As vice-president of the Alliance
she welcomed a very sleek and brightly-
plumaged audience. Her frock fell, a
silver cascade, beneath a cape of Tyrian
red, and her pearls and diamonds shone
with great lustre. There was color on the
stage. In a setting of medieval terrace,
conventional trees and stone bench Mrs.
Alice Brenac wore flowered ivory bro-
cades, opening over a front panel of
finest muslin and showing cyclamen
borders. The wide sleeves also showed
the cyclamen lining. Zanetto the trouba-
dour (Mrs. Blanc) swung his guitar
across his deep maroon suit. His shoes
were pale buff and pointed, his peaked
cap wore a jaunty quill.
The first part of the programme was
romance, the poetry of Coppee and the
music of Couperin and Lully, and the
French audience took it with audible de-
light. The second part was a comedy
by Gehri, and that went to still more
audible appreciation. Ginette Scamps
directed a group of programme-sellers,
pretty Mollie O’Connor and Robin Eakin,
of the gentle manner, among them. The
Thomas Gordon lady was in the audi-
ence with daughters Vicki and Helen.
Mrs. Harold Bott was there in a long
fitting black velvet coat. Lute Drum-
mond enjoyed the show ; so did the Lance
Fallaws, the Francis Andersons, the
Admiral Feakes couple and the sparkling
Mrs. Henry. Lucile Jensen, like all the
other girl helpers, had a knot of the tri-
color in her hair. Her dress was of white
taffeta. One of the night’s best-looking
was Mrs. John Bridge. C.-G. Tremoulet,
Miss Kate Egan, Mrs. Leon Lyons and
Mrs. Marr Thompson were in the
audience.
Sixteen years ago Henry Lawson died
in a small weatherboard cottage at
Abbotsford, a Sydney riverside suburb.
The cottage has long been demolished,
but an obelisk in commemoration was
erected in a school playground a hun-
dred yards from where the cottage stood.
Last Saturday afternoon, while the sun
shone on Parramatta River, Henry
Lawson’s mates gathered in connection
with a further local tribute to the dead
poet—the dedication of the Henry Law-
son Reserve, a beautiful strip of park-
land donated by the Drummoyne Muni-
cipal Council. Friends and represen-
tatives of various literary societies rolled
up in cars and taxis—the sight of such
affluence among the literati would have
made Henry, who often knew what it
was to be without a tram-fare, chuckle.
The Mayor declared the park open, and
12 memorial trees were planted—H. M.
Green, of the Fisher Library, Dame
Mary Gilmore and Lucy Cassidy were
among those who dug a spade under
the watchful eyes of hordes of nippers.
Afternoon-tea and speeches followed at
the residence of Mr. and Mrs. F, Barber.
Tom Mutch proposed the toast of Henry
Lawson, and Arthur Crocker, of the
Fellowship of Australian Writers, re-
sponded. Alderman J. L. Chambers spoke
for Lawson’s mates, and Mrs. Henry
Lawson, Mrs. Seymour, Lucy Cassidy,
Eileen Buckley, Bill Fitz Henry and
Brodie Mack said a few words. E. J.
Brady sent a telegram from Mallacoota,
and Jack Moses, Rod Quinn and Fred
Broomfield were among the unavoidably
absent who sent apologies. Mrs. Barber
was a genial and energetic hostess.
Children and the children of children
whom Jessie the elephant has carried
around the Zoo on her broad back turned
up at Taronga last week to wish her
many happy returns. The matriarch took
her honors with benevolent dignity. The
twitch of her trunk was a regular “bless
you, my children” as the 6000 youngsters
seated in the circus near the top gates
gave tongue to their affection. Jessie
wore royal-blue trappings with silver
embossings, her name shining out in
chromium across the headpiece. She was
keenly interested when her birthday cake
—3ft. Bin. in diameter —was wheeled into
the arena, all set with 66 candles. Beside
it was the smaller one that celebrated
the sixth year of baby elephant Sarina’s
life.
Sarina was gay in daffodil-hued accou-
trements. A small girl and an equally-
small boy, plucked from the multitude,
cut the first snip of each cake and handed
Jessie her portion and Sarina her nibble.
Then the two ladies bowed their exits,
and six spruce waitresses busily cut the
cakes into small pieces, and handed their
laden trays among the kiddies.
Before the big event of the afternoon
there was excitement when two amiable-
looking lion cubs, born in Taronga, were
held in the arms of an attendant while
the youngsters decided on their names —
Snap and Rusty. Flop and Buster
were the names given to two young
dingoes, and a baby tree-kangaroo will
now be on the records as Jump.
With two homes to put in cold stor-
age, so to speak, while the family flits
about America and England for almost
12 months, Mrs. Charlie Lloyd Jones has
had to be up and doing the last week
or two. Still, in spite of everything, she
managed to escape that mothball look.
September 1 was sailing date, and the
voyage is by way of the U.S.A. One
of the greatest wrenches was leaving the
garden of Summerlees, the Moss Vale
home, now just bursting into spring
blossom.


■;I50
iHELVETIAI
This COUPON
entitles the bearer to receive a
VALUABLE COLLECTION of
the former NOMINAL VALUE
OF EOUBL E S' 1754—0 f
RUSSIAN STAMPS ENTIRELY
FREE OF CHARGE.
These are offered- to new cus-
tomers applicants for our
approval sheets.
Contents: Oldest and Newest Issues, including
the famous Czar, Soviets, Russian Post in
Turkey, Transcaucasian Federation, Ukrania and
Air-Mails. Send your exact address. All ship-
ments will be franked with the FINEST AIR-
MAIL, POSTAGE.
ATLAS STAMP, LTD.
Zurich, 173, Fraumuensterpost, Switzerland
Fi?
V!
CHILDREN
WELCOME!
Not all hotels welcome children as
their guests. The Victoria, however,
has full facilities for their accomm-
odation, including creche under
charge of trained attendant. "Room
only" tariff: 4/- to 7/6 for singles,
8/- to 16/- for doubles. Write
for illustrated booklet to Dept. I.N.
VICTORIA
PALACE
215 LIT. COLLINS ST.
(Next Town Hall) MELBOURNE
*»•!
■H*
mu
H-Hfi iHirH FTTi
Next of Kin.
Statutory Notice to Next of Kin.
RE MARIAN ELLEN LILLIAN HYKOOP.
commonly known as MARIAN ELLEN
LILLIAN ALLEN, late of Wynnum South,
in the State of Queensland, widow, de-
ceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that WINIFRED
(or WINNIE) LOUISA JOHNSON, otherwise
known as WINIFRED (or WINNIE) LOUISA
GOLDSMITH, and all persons claiming through
her to be entitled to share in the estate of the
abovenamed Marian Ellen Lillian Hykoop,
commonly known as Marian Ellen Lillian Allen,
late of Wynnum South, in the State of Queens-
land, widow, deceased, who died on or about
the Twenty-ninth day of December, a.d. 1930,
at Wynnum in the said State, are hereby re-
quired to forward proof of their relationship to
THE PUBLIC CURATOR, Brisbane, on or
before the Thirtieth day of November, 1938.
AND that after the expiration of the last-men-
tioned date the Public Curator will proceed to
distribute the assets of the said deceased amongst
the parties entitled thereto, having regard only
to the claims of which he shall then have had
notice.
DATED this 27th day of August, 1938.
R. J. S. BARNETT, Public Curator,
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Personal and Missing Friends.
Unclaimed Money—Missing Heirs—
Next-of-kin.
ANGELL. —Frederick Vincent Angell, stated
born 1885, came to Australia 1917.
BARKER.—William Ballarat Barker and Joseph
Woods Barker.
BROWN.—John Brown, father of Hilda Alice
White (nee Brown), and other children of
his. , v
CORCORAN.—James Corcoran (bartender),
late of New Zealand.
DOIG. —Robert Scott Doig, born in Scotland
1888, came to Australia 1924.
ENGLISH.—Edward William English, son of
Edward and Esther Ann English, deceased.
FOOTE. —Francis and Allen, sons of John
Benjamin Foote.
FOREMAN.—Leonard Foreman, formerly of
Blunsdon, Wilts., Eng.
LOWE.—Robert Lowe, formerly of Clones,
County Monaghan, Ireland, and Eliza Anne
Burnside.
LEWlS.—Edgar Alfred Lewis, formerly of 17
Russell Street, Melbourne, Victoi.a.
McNlCOL.—Donald Kenneth McNicol and
Malcolm Stuart McNicol.
MOLYNEUX. —John Molyneux, who resided at
322 Pitt Street, Sydney, about 32 years ago.
McNlCOL.—Daniel McNicol, formerly of
United States, America.
MASSlE.—Stuart Gellie Massie, formerly of
Waikerie, S.A., about two years ago.
O’BRIEN. —Eileen O’Brien, whose mother mar-
ried Mr. Moore.
PARKER. —Joseph Ambrose Parker, born about
1870 (traveller), formerly of Adelaide, 1900
to 1918.
PEARCE. —Francis Blake Pearce, son of Horace
Pc2rcc»
RUTTER.—Francis Robert Rutter, formerly of
Gundagai, N.S.W., in or about 1928.
SIZER. —George Frederick and Robert Alfred,
formerly of New Zealand, sons of Robert
Sizer. _ „ ,
TUNSTALL-JACKSON.—SeIina Tunstall, for-
merly of Staffordshire, Eng., believed mar-
ried Thomas or George Jackson in Aus-
tralia between 1884-1906.
TWEEDY.—Clayton W. Tweedy, formerly of
Tingoora, Queensland, 1919, and his brother
Edmund Tweedy.
YOUNG. —William Young, born in 1882, son
of William Foster Young, deceased.
YOUNG. —Robert Young, formerly of St.
Arnaud, Victoria, in or about 1934.
The abovenamed persons, or their descend-
ants, write Mr. Telfer, 16 Pirie Street, Adel-
aide, immediately.
Melbourne
Chatter
An impressive moment in the celebra-
tion of the Bank of Australasia’s hun-
dredth birthday was when industry in the
form of scores of typewriters suddenly
stopped tapping and girls in brown and
blue uniforms mounted the stairs to the
mezzanine floor. A small number of
womenfolk, special guests (the ceremony
in the banking chamber was a men’s
affair), were also on the balcony, from
which they had a fly-on-the-ceiling view
of masculine heads, bald, near-bald and
thickly timbered. While holding their
own flowers, presented to them on
afrival, they also viewed the tops of the
fir-trees, one for each teller’s grille, which
were the bank’s birthday apparel. Lord
Huntingfield, of whom Melbourne has
seen very little during the last few
months, spoke about the business of
banking and the growth of the ’Asia
from August, 1838, when, with an iron
chest containing £3OOO worth of silver
coin, its first Victorian branch was
opened in an unpretentious two-roomed
house in Little Collins-street.
In continuation of the banking festi-
vities there was a cocktail party at Men-
zies, with the George Healys doing the
honors, followed by a dinner-party for
banking men and some other well-known
citizens. At the cocktail gathering, at
which there were present round about
300 guests, Mrs. Healy wore black with
a scattering of white spots upon her black
veil. Her daughter, Mrs. Vivian Wil-
shire, was also in black, with her white
hat elevated to the realms of color with
ribbon motifs of blue and clover pink
Decorations were stacks of flowers and
high glittering icebergs with “100 years”
carved into their glacial precipices.
The popularity of Tauber suffered no
waning in his absence, and all enthu-
siasts were present for his first return-
season concert. It was a packed house
but for a few back-row seats and for the
fact that infant firs and the übiquitous
aspidistra covered that part of the stage
formerly given over to the overflow.
Tauber’s showmanship was unruffled—in
fact, his demeanor was all sympathy and
benevolence —when a man near the front
in the audience fainted and was carried
out during the interrupted tenderest pas-
sage in Puccini’s “Let Her Believe” from
“The Girl of the Golden West.” Later
on Tauber announced with a “bless-you-
my-children” expression that “The
shentleman is quite all right.”
Mrs. Tauber, wearing her silver-fox
cape and magenta flowers in her hair, sat
between C. J. A. Moses and Bob McCall.
Mrs. McCall was present and wore all
white. In the very first row downstairs
were Mrs. Harry Emmerton and
James Barrett. A little further back were
the Bill Seymours and further still the
Norman Brookeses, she in spring-onion
green, plus Hersey under a headpiece of
black tulle. Among dark-red velvet coats
varying from burgundy to the new “red
cabbage” were those worn by Valerie
Purves, Mrs. Ernest Jones and Mrs. E. C.
Tronson, who added another ounce or
two of color with her lei of flowers.
Visitors from Ballarat were the
Graeme Dowlings, Mrs. Dowling in white
foxes and an aquarelle frock; and from
Mount Martha there were the Bob
Hamiltons and their young sons. Com-
mander and Mrs. Foley brought a school-
girl daughter, and Mrs. Sid Myer sat
between her boy and girl, who still have
a few years of school ahead of them.
Several other small boys with bare knees
and little girls in frocks to their toes
(these young ladies of to-morrow are in-
sistent about the length of their party
dresses) were in the audience. These
last school holidays have produced more
children than have been seen in Mel-
bourne for the past year, for it’s been the
first vacation since the paralysis was a
serious menace.
Edith Harrhy and Leila Pirani collabo-
rated with music and words-and-book
for a children’s operetta, “Play Day in
Happy Holland,” produced for two nights
in the Music Teachers’ Rooms at Kelvin
Hall. The children had a good time ex-
pressing their individuality in youthful
histrionics, and the parents watched with
pride and no prejudice. The operetta
takes place with Miss Harrhy’s tuneful
songs and Miss Pirani’s comedy dialogue
on the banks of a canal and the arrival
of a bunch of young Hollanders and four
older folk, the burgomeister Grumpy-
Growl, a gardener, a fisherman and a
cheeseman. The last-named character
was played by Harry Smith, of many a
Gilsullivan season. Merrymaking among
the tulips was preceded by one of Miss
Pirani’s fantasies, “The Pixie and the
Prickly Pear,” and by a group of Aus-
tralian songs set to Miss Harrhy’s music,
with words by Charles MacGregor,
Eleanor Wemyss and Richard Lomas.
Miss Pirani’s next step over the footlights
will be by way of the kitchen door on
October 15 at the Princess, when she will
play the maid Aggie in “Storm in a
Teacup.” This will be a Brett Randall
benefit, for Brett’s eyes are not what they
used tQ be before he did his job in the
war.
In John Boyle’s photograph is Yvonne
Stanton, fully qualified to wear a curled
wig over her fair hair, for she was ad-
mitted to the Bar a few weeks ago. This
young barrister is 23, and went through
her five years’ articled clerk’s course very
satisfactorily, with no failures in exams.
She is particularly interested in common
law, and hopes that cases dealing with
traffic infringements will become part of
her day’s work. Her old school is Tin-
tern, where she completed her school-
days when she came from Sydney nine
years ago with her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
W. S. Stanton.
After all, why shouldn’t an artist open
his own exhibition of pictures? So
thought W. A. Dargie, who carried his
idea into effect up at the Stair Gallery.
Dargie’s beard is now a thing of the past;
he got rid of it, not entirely on his wife’s
persuasion, but on account of mistaken
identity, always being Confused with
other people of paintbrush persuasion.
Dargie is looking forward as excitedly as
anyone else to the arrival of the Ballet,
and hopes to hide himself away with his
sketch pad on a butterbox in the wings.
His present exhibition includes several
ballet drawings finished from memory
from sketches done during rehearsals of
the last Ballet. In the throng on the
opening afternoon of the show were
Mrs. Dargie in a slim black tailored
suit, Mrs. Campbell Hughston in blue
check tweeds, and Betty Foster, who was
the subject of “Inscrutability.” Other
sitters who climbed the stairs about the
same time were Mrs. Reg Ellery, Dorothy
Phillips and Mrs. Eugene Cooper, who
wore a brown hat with her Viking-blue
suit.
So popular was Terence Crisp’s season
of “Plays of To-day” that latecomers to
the Little Theatre hung their hats over
the footlights, while, like the Seven
Dwarfs (multiplied), they sat o.n school-
benches with knees jammed against the
stage. Possibly the most interesting play
was “All in the Day’s Work,” wherein a
rich and bored woman consults a
neurologist who gives her the scare of
her life by pulling her leg. Terence Crisp
was the competent doctor, and the patient
was played by Merri Hart, who knocked
the audience sideways with her hat, a
red parrot with wings caressing the face
and trailing down a foot below the chin.
In “Ladies-in-Waiting” the Wife and the
Other Woman meet in a hospital waiting-
room while the Man is coming out of
chloroform after an operation. Phyllis
Stephen was the wife (plucky and un-
lucky), Jeannette Caldwell the girl,
charming, inordinately selfish and sure of
herself. Edna Ferber’s “The Eldest” was
a melancholy piece all about the imposi-
tions placed upon daughter Rose by the
rest of her unpleasant family. Aenid
Johnson played the difficult role of the
eldest daughter, and Phyllis Myerson the
common little piece who was her young
sister. In “When Peacocks Sing” every-
body lives with everybody else except
perhaps the maid, cleverly done with a
Scottish accent by Madge Dean. The
young women with no repressions were
played by Peggy Tellick and Nancy
Summers.
A pair of young artists (they earn their
livings as process engravers) who worked
hard for their joint show of water-colors
opened last week in the Athenaeum were
Nicholas Suhr and Douglas Miller. The
former, well known for his sketches of
boats and beaches, spends frequent week-
ends at Williamstown, where he finds the
old salts easy to get on with once their
conventions are known and respected.
Those sailors, boatbuilders and fisher-
men are very vain about their boats.
Each man wants his craft to be in the
picture, and they will even deliberately
place themselves, puffing at customary
ancient briars, in the artist’s line of
vision. In certain cases Mr. Suhr finds
that it’s wiser to paint in the interloper
than to ask him to move away. He has
never been given a fish by one of his
fisherman friends, and apparently it
would be a breach of waterfront etiquette
to ask for one. The fact does not dis-
courage him, -for he has read that the
great Whistler hoped for years, without
realisation, for a present of fish for his
supper.
Among September brides will be Mar-
garet Swinburne, who, on the 15th, is
marrying Ronald Browning, second son
of Mr. and Mrs. A. Browning, of Rivers-
lea, Yarrawonga. The quiet wedding
will be followed by a small reception at
Shenton, Kinkora-road, Hawthorn, the
home of the bride’s mother, Mrs. George
Swinburne. The newly-married couple
will live three miles out of Yarra-
wonga. Miss Swinburne’s photograph by
Broothorn.
Among wanderers who learnt quite a
bit about their own country during the
past winter were the Lu Conollys and
Mrs. Eric Hill, who caravanned up to
Queensland and back again. Going north
they camped all the time, even in Sydney
and Brisbane, where they sometimes put
a padlock on the rear wheel in their
friends’ gardens. (Although there was a
shower on board, there’s nothing like a
bath for real comfort.) Fishing-rods were
used occasionally, but Lu oiled his
elephant-gun to no purpose; he didn’t
even get a rabbit, which was too bad
after his big-game success on a previous
caravan jaunt through Africa. The trio
loVed Queensland and Queenslanders but
not the meat. They never had the luck
to buy really tender steak and chops,
and had to make the best of tough grills
and stews well seasoned with Mrs.
Conolly’s favorite sauces.
With his head clearing the ceiling of
the archway by three inches only Dr.
John Dale opened Ethel Barber’s exhibi-
tion. His address included an aesthetic
thought or two and expressed the belief
that art is a necessary factor of life and
civilisation. Among those who mounted
the stairs of Riddell’s Galleries on the
first afternoon of the show were Mrs.
George Swinburne and her daughter,
William Lucas of the episcopal beard,
E. H. Jenkins, Joyce Shannon and Betty
Barnett, whose lightweight coat went
over a caramel frock, and whose flat-
crowned hat was trimmed with the popu-
lar clover-pink. Mrs. Tam Purves wore
a little fur cape and tip-tilted grey beret
with her plainly-tailored frock.
The Jud Holts like to keep their re-
spective low and high heels on solid
earth or at least on a smooth white deck
when travelling, so are not limiting them-
selves to airweight luggage on their five
months’ journey round the world. Their
home in Evans Court, Toorak, was the
scene of much activity last week. The
Holts moved out one morning and the
following day a. newly-arrived American,
Mr. McClelland, of the Atlas Novelty
Co., moved in to prepare for the recep-
tion of his wife and two children, who are
expected from California in the Monterey.
The Holts will travel from England to
America by the Queen Mary and make
straight to Massachusetts, then south to
North Carolina (where their parents live),
leaving in their wake a trail of koala
bears and sheepskin rugs. Among fare-
wells ,to the couple, who squeezed scores
of friends into their stateroom for drinks
on the Strathaird, were a cocktail-and-
supper party given by the Canadian
Trade Commissioner and Mrs. F. Palmer,
cocktails invented as well as mixed by
the Jack Kemelfields in Merriwee-avenue,
and still more cocktails, followed by a
buffet of hot and cold culinary triumphs.


v^ v \
\
50
/
i
When
'a MAN
tells you:
that he is thankful
to Calvert’s Tooth
Powder for a life-
time free from
dental trouble and
for white teeth in
his old age—
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth!
tee
d
t i&Z
CoU^
lit
J i
a
,\< ct
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
HOW SHOULD DEFENCE EXPENDITURE BE
FINANCED?
PROBLEM OF THE WHEATGROWER
OUTLOOK ON STOCK EXCHANGE
MINES AND METALS
September Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
k
h
'S
m
TOl'i
Established 1808.
Investments in Australasian Securities
Exceeds £1,200,000.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England, )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Wau!
“Kaloa”: Forced by public ridicule to
abandon its scheme to dump down the
New Guinea capital at Salamaua, the
Commonwealth Government will not
allow that the Griffiths Committee knew
its job when it reported in favor of Lae.
It appears to the Cabinet, which knows
nothing about the matter, that Lae has
“disadvantages.” What the disadvan-
tages are is not explained.
Wau is now the bet of the moment.
The Griffiths Committee reported that
Wau, at 3500 feet, has a pleasant tem-
perate climate, but its main disadvantage
is that it is predominantly a mining
centre. The whole of the adjacent coun-
try is held under mining lease, and there
are “no near-by large agricultural areas
which can be developed when mining
wanes, as it must.”
Moreover, since Wau is accessible only
by air, and every stick of timber and
sheet of iron would have to be carried
by ’plane unless Rabaul is maintained
until a road to the coast is built, the
transfer will prove expensive—probably
double the cost of transferring to Lae.
And when Wau is the capital, it will
be remote from the areas which will see
permanent agricultural expansion.
There are no earthquakes, but the com-
mittee agreed that “the site does not pos-
sess the attributes which we think ought
to be associated with the new capital.”
But that may not stop the Ministry
from being foolish enough to choose Wau
against the best advice.
A Northern Air Tragedy
“J. Want”: Queensland had its worst
air tragedy when a North Queensland
Airways Dragon crashed at Innisfajl. The
pilot and four passengers were killed—
three were girls—and four other pas-
sengers were injured. The machine was
flown from Cairns to Townsville in the
early morning of Aug. 29. It left again
at 7.55, and when about to land at 9.30
it got out of control. It was not loaded
to the limit.
The four persons injured are Miss
Fynn, of Cairns, daughter of a former
Port Douglas Shire clerk ; Arthur Valen-
tine, assistant manager of Woolworths
at Cairns ; C. R. Smith, of Cairns, and
Alfred Wells, employed at the South
Johnstone mill.
The killed were Miss Olga Headrick,
daughter of Dave Headrick, one of the
best-known merchants in the North;
Miss Walsh, a member of Headrick’s
staff; Miss Costin, daughter of J. A.
Costin, of Mareeba ; Henry Murtha, a
Cairns chemist, and the pilot, Ben Good-
son, son of an old-time track cyclist. Ben
A
had only been 10 days in the company’s
service, and he was one of the best all-
round commercial flying men in Australia.
“Dorret”: It’s a pretty fair bet that
the Public Works Committee (B.
31/8/’3B) will have something extra to
say on the matter of accommodation in
Darwin. Collins and Price, Ms.H.R.,
and a “Hansard” reporter were crammed
into a room already occupied by Blain,
M.H.R., and a pressman. Among five
of them they had two washbasins and
nowhere to throw the water except out
the window. A shower meant a trek
downstairs back of the kitchen. There
“C 'mon, Ma; finish that dressmakin' an' let ’im get on with ’ is Work.”
are—or should be —18 ’planes arriving
every week in Darwin. The place has
four pubs, but naturally the main trade
they do is over the bar —a spot where
tourists rarely spend much oof. What is
urgently needed in Darwin is a modern
tropical hotel, preferably overlooking the
harbor and complete with open-air ball-
room, open terraces with tables and
chairs, after the Continental style, and
a swimming pool. Canberra thinks it a
job for private enterprise, and private
enterprise seems to think it a job for
Canberra.
* * * *
“Terrod”: If the main hope of the
N.T., as far as gold is concerned, centres
in the Mt. Isa Co.’s efforts to develop
Brock’s (Howley) Creek (B. 13/7/’3B),
that hope was blasted some time ago.’
The Mt. Isa crowd gave the show a fair
spin, but gold content did not come up
to expectations, and the ground proved
so heavy at 175 ft. that low-cost mining
methods were precluded. The failure of
the Howley also dismissed the possibility
of Isa taking over the near-by Zapopan-
John Bull line of lode, which, although
containing fairly high-grade ore, offers
only a limited tonnage. It would not be
much use to a sizable company except
as an adjunct to large-scale operations
near by.
* * * *
“Perry’s Knob”: In the heart of the
old German settlements which lie between
Lowood and Rosewood, about 40 miles
from Brisbane, Minden State school cele-
brates its 60th anniversary next month.
Minden was Back Plains before the name
was changed. The original school com-
mittee was German, the scholars were
German, and the present committee runs
true to form. Teachers have mainly
been of British stock, but in later years
German names have appeared on the
staff list. I happened to be in Minden
on the day the news came through that,
in deference to war-time patriotism, the
township’s name had been altered to
“Frenchtown.” Even the stress of the
times could not keep the grins off the
faces of some of the good burghers who
knew their history better than W. M.
Hughes and co. And they had reason
to grin, for Minden was a battle in which
British and Germans, standing side by
side on behalf of a Hanoverian king who
spoke only pidgin English and generalled
by the Duke of Brunswick, walloped the
Gaul. It was almost as funny as chang-
ing the neighboring town of Marburg
into “Townshend.” However, “French-
town” Minden remained till 1930, when
it reverted to its former moniker.
“Dick Tafone”: A big three-storey
building going up in billowing clouds of
flame-shot smoke, no attempt at extinc-
tion or salvage and the owners’ represen-
tative looking on with evident approba-
tion-—this was one of Brisbane’s recent
dramatic interludes. It was the old
Queensland Meat Export works at
Pinkenba, bought by A.C.F. and Shirley’s
Fertilisers ; and the cheapest and easiest
way to clear the site for a new building
was to set it on fire. The brigade chose
conditions and time for the blaze, and
directed the preparations for making it
as rapid and effective as possible. Over
1000 tons of old dry timber floors and
framings, with several hundred more
tons of charcoal insulation, made as lively
a burn as Brisbane has ever seen and kept
the fire-brigade telephone busy explain-
ing.
* * * *
“Selwyn”: In parts of N.Q. banknote
robbers have replaced cattle-duffers. In
1926 somebody walked off with £5OOO
which was being carried from Towns-
ville for the Q.N. Bank. Six years later
a gang armed with duplicate keys col-
lected £10,831 from the Q.N. and £3398
from the N.S.W. in Cloncurry. In 1930
the ’Asia had suffered a loss of £4OOO
in notes. And the other day £3OOO for
the ’Wales was collected off the Mt. Isa
train. If this goes on, air carriage of
money will become highly popular. It
is not so easy to burst an aeroplane
safe open and step off the footboard
into the bush.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Cooktown’s days of
colorful glory are recalled by the sale of
the old Chinese joss house in Adelaide-
street for £25. It was built nearly 60
years ago to serve the religious needs of
the thousands of Celestials who poured
in to seek fortune on the Palmer gold-
field or in shops or gambling joints. The
roaring trade of Cooktown’s 27 pubs
was done to an accompaniment of eternal
pak-a-pu and fan-tan, of Chinese
restaurants and eat-stalls, opium pipes
and nicee lilly girl, punctuated by pro-
cessions and strange banquets at the
Altar of the Dead’ in the Chinese
cemetery at the Two Mile. Kindly old
Ah Gum, attendant upon the temple
spirit for 50 years, died in 1936. A tour-
ist pinched one of the two josses, the
other was taken for shelter to the house
of one of the few remaining Chinese
residents, and the quaint furniture of the
community-room was sold. Now the
auctioneer’s hammer has deprived Cook-
town’s Celestial ghosts of their last
shelter.


OBTAIN YOUR PARTS FOR THE
“Regenerative Super-Three”
From Sydney’s Leading Short-wave Specialists
Complete kit of parts as specified,
including valves and speaker,
£lO/12/6 nett.
“Radiomac” Planetary Vernier
Dials 16/6
"Radiomac” Special I.F. Trans-
formers 8/6
“Radiomac” 2in. Scales .... 1/-
Assembled and thoroughly tested—
ready to operate.
£l2/12/- nett.
“Radiomac” Five-band Coil
Units .. . . £2/7/6
Radiomac Trolitul Condensers:
J 60mmfd. . . 8/-. 40mmfd. . . 6/3
“Radiomac” R.F. chokes 1/6
Write for Our 1938-39 Catalogue—lt Is Fret
PRICE'S RADIO SERVICE
5 & 6 ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY.
Tf/£
EMPIRES MILLIONS
RADIO NEWS
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
THE REGENERATIVE SUPER-THREE.
This is a small superhet designed for both short-wave listener and
amateur. Remarkable sensitivity is gained by the use of regeneration in
the combined I.F. amplifier-second detector, and this control is also used
as a beat oscillator for reception of C.W. signals. The receiver covers
from 15 to 100 metres on the short-wave bands, plus the 200- to 600-metre
broadcast band, by switching. As a standardised coil kit and assembly is
used, there are no difficulties in making up the set.
Since Jones introduced the three-valve
Super-Gainer receiver, the small super-
het in which a minimum number of
valves is used to obtain desired results
Fig. 1. —Circuit diagram of the Regenerative Super-Three receiver, designed for s.w.ls. and amateurs.
has been deservedly popular. Such a
receiver is useful for portable or emer-
gency work, since one might as well use
three valves in a superhet circuit as in
a T.R.F. The valves take the same fila-
ment drain, and the selectivity goes up.
The small superhet is also a very useful
receiver for the short-wave listener or
amateur with a limited pocket, for the
little receiver can be made to give as
good performance as much large'r types.
The same stations are heard with ample
headphone volume and sufficient audio
power to operate a permag. midget
speaker comfortably.
The original receiver was designed by
Alan Faison, of Price’s Radio Service,
Angel-place, Sydney, and thoroughly
tested by the writer. It is an excellent
little job and fills a definite need for an
inexpensive all-wave receiver, something
in the nature of the larger “communica-
tions” jobs of overseas production.
Only three octal-base valves and a
rectifier are used, and, the rectifier being
purely a matter of power supply, the re r
ceiver is to all intents and purposes a
three-valver. Regeneration is obtained
by the use of a special intermediate fre-
quency transformer of the iron-cored
variety, with three separate windings.
There is no stock transformer of this
type, so that the special job must be
used.
One of the most important parts of
any receiver is that of coils, and the unit
as used in the Regenerative Super-Three
is efficient on all five bands. The bands
are covered in three short-wave steps, and
'two for the broadcast, since a tuning
capacity of only 160mmfd. is used. It
is no trouble to cover half the band on
one switch position, and to throw to
the other as required. The smaller tun-
ing capacity permits higher coil-con-
denser efficiency on short waves. These
coil units are air tested before leaving
Fig. 2. —The wiring as seen underneath the chassis.
the maker, and are guaranteed to give
excellent results,
Bandspreading,
So that the receiver shall be really
useful to amateurs, bandspread tuning is
provided by the provision of a Radiomac
planetary motion and dial. The action
is smooth, with a ratio of 6 to 1 and
absolutely no backlash. This ratio is
ideal for bandspreading and also normal
short-wave tuning, as quick changes may
be made from one end of the scale to
the other without having to crank up, as
in the case of dials with much higher
ratios. Any good dial may be used with
the receiver, but the type specified is
recommended.
Suitable for Vibrator Application.
It is not essential to use the receiver
exactly as described with the speaker and
power supply on the same chassis, and
for vibrator power from a six-volt
supply the same chassis size can be used,
minus the rectifier. As an A.C. receiver,
the speaker field serves as filter choke.
With vibrator application, a 30hy. choke
will be needed to take the place of this,
and the speaker will be a permag. midget
with the same input transformer. In
the circuit diagram of Fig. 1, the high-
voltage positive from the vibrator unit
would be fed to the receiver at the point
marked X on the output side of the A.C.
filter. A four-pin socket could be fitted
to the chassis for the external power
supply, and the six-volt accumulator used
for filaments would also supply the
vibrator.
The receiver was tested by the use of
a Radiokes V 825 vibrator unit, as illus-
trated in Fig. 7, and the substitution of
a permag. Rola midget speaker. It gave
excellent results, in every way compar-
able with the A.C. operation. The
Radiokes vibrator unit was found to be
remarkably free from noise on the short
waves, which is the crucial test for any
vibrator. Where desired, 180 volts of
B battery can be used for the plate supply,
but in the near future it is intended to
describe a two-volt version of the receiver
especially for battery operation.
Valves used in this version are: 6ABG,
mixer-oscillator; 6K7G, combined I.F.
amplifier, second detector and 8.F.0.;
6F6G, output pentode to headphones or
loudspeaker ; and 80, rectifier. These are
all octal-base valves with the exception
of the latter.
Construction.
Reference should be made to the circuit
diagram of Fig. 1, the schematic diagram
with point-to-point wiring of Fig. 2, the
Fig. 3. —The Regenerative Super-Three
seen from the panel. Bandspread tuning
dial is at the left, band-setter at lower
centre, and speaker on the right. The
wave-change switch is underneath the
tuning dial.
resistor and condenser strip of Fig. 4,
and the list of parts.
These parts are used in the complete
receiver:
One drilled chassis, Min x Bin. x 3in. (Radio-
mac).
One drilled panel, Min. x Biin. (Radiomac).
Two condenser mounting brackets (Radiomac).
One special 460 kc. I.F. transformer (Radiomac).
One vernier dial (Radiomac).
Two 160mmfd. tuning condensers (C 3 and C 4)
(Radiomac).
Two 40mmfd. tuning Condensers (Cl and C 2)
(Radiomac).
One all-wave R.F. choke (Radiomac).
Two flexible condenser couplings (Radiomac).
One 2in. condenser scale (Radiomac).
One resistor strip.
One 300-ohm wire-wound resistor (R 1).
One 500-ohm wire-wound resistor (Rll).
Two 50,000-ohm carbon resistors (R 2 and R 9).
Two 10,000-ohm carbon resistors (R 3 and R 6).
One 25,000-ohm carbon resistor (R 4).
One two-megohm carbon resistor (R 5).
One 250,000-ohm carbon resistor (R 8).
One 500,000-ohm carbon resistor (RIO).
One 25,000-ohm potentiometer (R 7).
Four .lmfd. tubular condensers (C 5, C 7, C 8 and
C 18).
Three .smfd. tubular condensers (Cll, Cl 3 and
Cl 5).
One .Olmfd. tubular condenser (Cl 2).
Two .000lmfd. mica condensers (C 6 and C 9).
One .0005mfd. mica condenser (CIO).
One 25mfd. electrolytic condenser (CM).
Two Bmfd. electrolytic condensers (Cl 6 and
Cl 7).
Three small pointer knobs.
Three octal valve sockets.
One four-pin socket.
Two valve shields.
One special closed-circuit jack (Igranic).
One midget power transformer.
One sin. speaker with 2500-ohm field.
Four valves (6ABG, 6K7G, 6F6G and 80)
(Radiotron).
Screws, nuts, lugs, wire terminals, etc.
Before assembling, examine all com-
ponents carefully and
note their relative
positions on the
chassis. Particular
notice should be taken
of the valve sockets.
All heater or filament
connections are facing
the rear of the chassis.
The first step is to
fasten the panel to the
chassis, then mount
all tuning condensers.
The band-set con-
densers are mounted
under the chassis. C 4
is mounted directly on
the panel and C 3
is supported on an
aluminium bracket
directly behind and in
line with C 4. These
are ganged together
by a flexible coupling.
The bandspread con-
densers are mounted
on top of the chassis.
The method of
mounting C 2 will de-
pend on the type of dial being used. In
the original, the Radiomac dial is mounted
on the panel and condensers Cl and C 2
are supported on aluminium brackets
directly behind the dial, the shaft of C 2
being fitted into the dial and a flexible
coupling connecting Cl to the other end
of C 2. A little extra care is well worth
while when mounting the condensers, as


DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
6AM’s new power of 1000
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Do you realise that OUB
listeners are YOUB cus-
tomers?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers.
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
The same valves that bring speedy help by
ambulance are the best tonic for your radio
set. A regular overhaul of your radio will
give better and brighter programmes. See
your local supplier and . . .
be sure to Re-valve with new micro-sensitive
RADIOTRONS
The Wo r I d's Standard Radio Valves
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.)
perfect alignment will result in easy
turning.
Mount all other components as shown
in the diagrams, making sure that the
aerial terminal is well insulated from the
chassis. Before screwing the speaker to
the panel an alteration is necessary, as
Fig. 4. —The resistor
and condenser strip is
wired in conjunction
with Fig. 2.
shown in Fig. 6.
The broken
voice coil lead
is extended, al-
lowing length
for connecting
under chassis as
required.
Wiring of the
chassis is com-
menced with the
filaments. These
leads, FI and
F 2, should be
twisted together,
starting at the
transformer and
proceeding to
the 6F6 G,
6K 7 G and
6AB G. All
points marked
“E” should be
connected to
chassis. Connect
condenser C 6
and resistor R 2
to the correct
contacts on the
6ABG socket
and complete all
wiring under
chassis as shown.
Particular care
should be taken
to ensure that
all wires go to
the correct con-
tacts on the
valve sockets.
Leads are taken from C 3 and C 4 through
the chassis to Cl and C 2 respectively.
The mains are connected to the trans-
former contacts “C” and “240.” A
rubber grummet should be used where
this lead passes through the chassis.
Next fasten the necessary condensers,
resistors, etc., to the resistor strip, wire
as in Fig. 4 and screw the completed
Fig. 5.-Color code for I.F. transformer
connections.
strip to the rear chassis wall. Connec-
tions can then be made to the correct
points on the chassis (wire No. 1 on the
strip to No. 1 on chassis, No. 2 to No. 2,
etc.).
Wiring under chassis is then complete
with the exception of the coil unit. This
is next fastened into the chassis, and
the six colored leads connected up :
white to aerial terminal, blue to contact
on 6ABG socket, green to C 3, brown to
C 4, black to chassis and red to No. 3
on the resistor strip.
Turn the chassis over and run a wire
from Cl to the top of 6ABG valve. The
final wiring is to the top of the 6K7G.
Resistor R 5 and condenser C 9 are con-
nected in parallel and soldered to a grid
cap, the other end being, connected to
the lead from the top of the I.F. trans-
former.
Adjustment.
There should be no need to alter the
adjustment screws on the coil unit, as
this has already been correctly aligned,
but sometimes small capacities are in-
troduced in the wiring which may have
a slight effect on tracking. To test, tune
in a station as near the high-frequency
end of the band (band-set condenser
plates out of mesh) as possible. Then
turn the correct aerial trimmer screw
slightly in each direction and leave in
the position where signals are strongest.
There are five aerial trimmers situated
towards the bear of the coil unit, the
higher frequency (lower wave-length)
being on the left, and No. 2 broadcast
(higher wave-length) on the right. This
adjustment should be carried out on
each of the five bands.
Operation.
Operation is extremely simple. Set
the band selector (left-hand knob) on the
required band, advance volume control
(right-hand knob) until a rushing sound
is heard. Turn band-set control slowly,
and as each station is passed over a
whistle will be heard. By reducing the
volume-control setting this can be
eliminated. When receiving C.W. signals
it is necessary to leave the volume con-
trol slightly beyond the point where
oscillation commences.
Bandspread is continuous on all bands,
Fig. 6. —The speaker voice coil has one
side broken for connection to the head-
phone jack .
as these condensers are in parallel with
the band-set condensers. This is not of
particular value on the broadcast band,
but is essential for short-wave tuning.
With the bandspread dial at about 50, the
various short-wave bands should be
located with the band set, and a note
made of the readings. It is then only
necessary to set the knob at the correct
spot for a known band and do all tuning
on the bandspread dial.
A word about results. Testing this
little set in a suburb of Sydney on a
short outside aerial, 27 broadcast stations
were received on the loudspeaker with-
out difficulty. On short waves M.L. ama-
teurs on ’phone were received at fair
loud-speaker volume on the 80-metre
band, whilst European short-wave broad-
cast stations on 31, 25 and 19 metres
were very good. Amateur C.W. signals
on 20 and 40 metres were too numerous
to mention. The little receiver is particu-
larly good for its size, and ‘compares
favorably with many multi-valve type
receivers.
Fig. 7.— The Radiokes VB25 vibrator
unit used to test the receiver for six-volt
accumulator operation.
For vibrator operation it will be
necessary to omit the power transformer,
Bmfd. electrolytic condensers, 80 rectifier,
and to substitute a permag. speaker for
the D.C. dynamic type. The positive B
from the vibrator will connect to the
point marked X in the schematic
diagram of Fig. 1.
D. B. K.
Radio in Torres Strait.
Torres Strait islanders are finding
many advantages in radio communica-
tion. F. L. Dawes, of A.W.A., recently
completed radio-telephone installations
to the order of the Chief Protector of
Aborigines, Queensland, at 14 points
on Cape York Peninsula for the use
of the pearling luggers. Soon after the
first installation was completed an in-
jured man was
taken to hospital
through the medium
of radio-telephone
and aeroplane from
Thursday Island.
He got treatment
five days earlier
than would previ-
ously have been
the case.
Places equipped
on Cape York are
Aurakun, Weipa,
Mapoon, Lockhart
River and St. Paul
mission stations
and Iron Range
goldmine. Strait
islands are served
by Badu, Mabuaig,
Saib a i, Yorke,
Darnley and Mur-
ray. Palm and
Fantome islands
have also been re-
cen 11 y equipped
with radio. The
Government patrol
ketch Melbidir,
which travels
around the islands,
also has radio on
board, and the “mother station” at
Thursday Island keeps in touch with all
these stations.
“ Listen , stowaway. When you've finished that you
can give the windows a good rub."
Aviation and Radio
Operators.
Rapid increase in the number of aero-
planes flying over Australia’s main air
routes, together with the use of radio
equipment at aerodromes, has had an
effect upon the demand for radio opera-
tors. Recently three Marconi School
students went as operators to Qantas
Empire flying-boats on the Sydney-Singa-
pore service. Many pilots are taking
courses in radio. A.N.A. has a school
at Essendon (Vic.) where Marconi School
instructors are training 25 pilots and 14
cadets for the second-class aircraft wire-
less operator’s certificate. Airlines of
Australia is now having all pilots trained
in radio. Some attend the Marconi School
in Sydney, and an A.W.A. expert gives
others tuition in Brisbane.
Radiotip.
“Norwood”; Plaster of Paris makes
an excellent insulator, with a remarkably
smooth surface finish when set; it is
easy to manipulate, and has only one
fault, its tendency to brittleness, which
necessitates reasonable freedom from
mechanical strain in use. To fill up a
crack, crevice or unwanted hole in a
piece of bakelite, nothing is better
(black enamel paint will disguise the
patch). Fixed condensers, shaky though
well-soldered wire joints and other
fixed P arts can be locked down to the
chassis or each other very simply with
gypsum. Finally, the old problem of
the glass envelope of the valve rattling
loose on its base can be solved per-
manently in well under five minutes with
a couple of teaspoonfuls of the mixture.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
Enclosed is the circuit diagram of a receiver
l propose to construct for my car. It is de-
signed. with A negative battery terminal earthed,
but on the car the A positive is earthed. What
changes are necessary? —7l6.
As heater valves are used throughout, con-
nect a .smfd. condenser between A negative
and earth connection to the car frame.
* * * *
(1) How can I change six volts D.C. to six
volts A.C.? (2) Is the current from a Ford
T coil A.C.?—m.
(1) By an interruptor circuit to provide pul-
sating D.C., which can be transformed as with
A.C. (2) No; pulsating D.C.
* * * $
Where can ready-wound coil kits to suit a
,00035/?i/d. variable condenser gang be
obtained? —718.
At almost any city radio dealer’s. Radiokes
and other firms have been making such kits for
years.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1516 of 1938.
BETWEEN HELEN COURTIER BRASIER
Petitioner
And CECIL ROWLAND BRUCE
BRASIER (also known as JAMES CECIL
ROWLAND and JAMES CECIL BRAS-
SIER) Respondent.
TO CECIL ROWLAND BRUCE BRASIER
(also known as JAMES CECIL ROW-
LAND and JAMES CECIL BRASSIER).
TAKE NOTICE that : the said HELEN
COURTIER BRASIER has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion by reason of your failure to comply
with the Decree for restitution of conjugal rights
in a suit No. 1599 of 1937 made against you by
this Court on the fourth day of April' a.d. 1938
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
First day of November a.d. 1938 and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be. heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fifth day of September, a.d.
1938.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) N. J. PHILLIPS,
Clerk in Divorce.
R. C. TISDALE, Solicitor for Petitioner,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
In Equity.
No. 912 of 1938.
IN THE MATTER of the Companies Act 1936
And IN THE MATTER of CUDAHY
& CO. PTY. LTD.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a peti-
tion was presented to the Supreme Court in
Equity on the 16th day of August 1938 to con-
firm an alteration of the objects of the above-
named company proposed to be effected by a
special resolution of the said company duly
passed at an extraordinary general meeting of
the said company on the 29th day of July 1937
and which reads as follows: That the Memo-
randum of Association of the Company be
altered to include the following clause, same
to be known as sub-clause 3 (b), and that appli-
cation be made for the approval of the Court
to such variation: —
3 ( b ) To carry on in New South Wales or else-
where the business of importers and
exporters of merchandise, brokers,
manufacturers, wholesale and retail
dealers in detergents, soaps, cleansing
and polishing materials and prepara-
tions, waxes, glues and pastes, chemicals,
sodas, acids, salt, oils, fats, perfumes,
foods, animal and human, meats and
meat by-products, food preservatives, fertil-
izers, germicides, fungicides, dyes, metals,
minerals and mineral products, earths,
papers, drug and medicinal products,
poisons and general merchandise of all
kinds and dealers in or manufacturers and
sellers of any other articles and things of
a character similar or analogous to the
foregoing or any of them or connected
therewith.
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the
said petition will be heard by the Chief Judge
in Equity sitting at the Supreme Court Sydney
on the 26th day of September 1938 at the
hour of ten- o’clock in the forenoon AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that a copy of the
petition above referred to may be inspected free
of charge at the registered office of the company
Cudahy House Christie and Eiger Streets
Glebe or at the offices of Messrs. Magney
& Magney Solicitors for the said company at
No. 79 Elizabeth Street Sydney during usual
business hours AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that any creditor or contributory of
the said company desiring to oppose the making
of an order confirming the alteration of the
company’s objects as set out in the special
resolution referred to above may appear at
the time of hearing by himself or solicitor or
counsel and a copy of the said petition will
be furnished to any such person requiring the
same by the undersigned on payment of the
regulated charge for the same.
MAGNEY & MAGNEY,
Solicitors for the Petitioner,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
“Globe” Plunger Pump
Designed for economical handling of skim
milk and other liquids.
Has gunmetal piston and check valves. Brass cylinder.
The “Globe” is free from all non-essentials, thus making it easy
to keep clean.
Simple construction ensures trouble-free operation, while the
capacity is satisfactory for all ordinary requirements.
At 100 r.p.m. capacity is 5 gallons per minute.
At 80 r.p.m. capacity is 41 gallons per minute.
At 60 r.p.m. capacity is 31 gallons per minute.
Size of piping: One inch, suction and discharge.
(Larger or smaller piping may be fitted.)
Overall height: 22 inches,
Fast and loose pulleys: 12 inches x 2 inches.
M^PKersoffs;
Proprietary Limited
51 Batnurst Street, Sydney; 546 Collins Street, Melbourne;
and at Adelaide and Perth.
Perfect non-drip
Easy to fit
Long life
Registered Nq,
9425. •
1
Slightest pressure cuts off
water supply
6d. per card containing two washers
If unobtainable locally, two washers on a card, giving instructions, will
be mailed on receipt of six penny stamps. State size of tap, 4m. or
HOLDTITE, G.P.O. Box 1389 J, Sydney, N.S.W.
“Mahratta”: 1 Grimmett has accepted
an invitation to coach the private cricket
team of the Maharajah of Jath. The
Bombay Presidency is dotted with little
islands of Native States; one of these is
jath, which is about the size of an old-
time Barcoo sheep-station, its western
border marching with that of the better-
known Kolhapur. Other small States
surround it, and the hitting of sixes is
frowned on. Neighboring budmashi
pinch the balls.
# * * *
“Bandy Andy”: There is a move in
Britain, faintly echoed here, to adopt
shorts instead of long breeks for cricket.
The movers claim greater freedom of
action for the players, and in warm
climates much cooler conditions. As far
as Australian country conditions are con-
cerned there is something to be said for
the idea, as anyone who has fielded in
grass thick with “cobbler’s peg” seed or
other adhesive seeds will admit. But
there is a drawback that does not seem
to have been noticed —chafing by the
pad straps. I have often seen it in young-
sters playing in knickers, and it is
mighty troublesome.
* * * *
England lost an excellent cricketer and
a splendid personality when Brigadier-
General R. M. (“Reggie”) Poore died
at Bournemouth, aged 72. Poore was
probably the finest cricketer the British
Army has produced, and a Staff Col-
lege job at one time permitted him
to play regularly for Hampshire.
Wisden made him one of its “Five
Cricketers of the Year” in 1900 with
Darling, Noble, Hill and A. O. Jones.
In 1899 he averaged 116.58 in county
matches, and in all first-class games
topped the list with 91.33. It was not
until 1931 that Sutcliffe beat those figures
with 96.96. Poore served in the South
African War with distinction, and
towards the end was attached to G.H.Q.
Australians then holding staff and other
jobs in Pretoria will remember him as
an untiring organiser of cricket and polo
matches, with a soft spot for anyone
who played a decent game of either. He
had hard luck in the big war, having to
hold down an Indian district command
most of the time.


Sts
LYS
£
PROOf.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
■ * ■
K . * •*
'j
1 3 §E
Si
IP
;
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from ' all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty, Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE
NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
DON'T WORRY.I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
Keep the Sheep-export Embargo.
“Ghanam”: Australians returning
from South Africa are of. the opinion
that Australia has nothing to fear from
African competition in the wool market.
G. C. Sangstcr, of Goldsbrough Mort,
says that the S’African rainfall is so
unreliable and the soil so lacking in
fertility that results comparable with our
own can never be obtained. Farm
machinery is scarce, though cheap native
labor has its advantages except in effi-
ciency. In high-price times S’Africa has
produced about 1,000,000 bales of wool,
and he was surprised at the size and
quality of some of the animals on the
Karoo, but he found that leading merino
studs had no standard type.
The lifting of the embargo on stud-
sheep export, he believes, would not be
detrimental to Australian wool. Even if
the Union farmer were able to produce
better weights by the use of Australian
rams, the extra quantity would represent
a very small amount.
If the embargo were abolished practically
all the leading breeders would import from
Australia, as they realise the value of Aus-
tralian rams for maintaining the quality
of their studs... .There would be no danger
provided they guaranteed not to re-export.
There comes the catch. A guarantee
covers only the first buyer. But if he
succeeds in building up studs of the
Boonoke and Uardry standard, there is
nothing to prevent a number of locals
buying on a large scale, starting studs
which cannot be governed by a guar-
antee, and dealing wholesale in the export
of rams to other countries.
There are parts of Africa along the
Mediterranean where the Australian
merino might do well, and in some parts
of Asia it would surely succeed. Iran,
with its abundant underground water
and clear, dry, high country, merely needs
to acclimatise Australian grasses and it
might easily find a place in the merino
market. It is safer to keep our rams
at home. There is plenty of work for
them here —a great deal of poor wool
from second-rate sheep still comes to the
market.
Rugging at Trangie.
“M.F.Mc”: “Valerin” hasn't got the
true facts of the Trangie sheep-rugging
experiment (B. 24/8/’3B). Correct num-
bers and prices were: Rugged, 89 ewes,
£53 os. 6d., average value 11s. lid.;
unrugged, 92 ewes, £46 7s. 4d., average
value 10s. Id., making a difference of
Is. lOd. per head as against “Valerin’s”
Is. 4}d.
During the last six months adverse
seasonal conditions rendered the trial
ineffective. Owing to severe drought,
hand-feeding was needed for almost the
whole period, and naturally all the sheep
lost condition.
An annual labor cost of £l5O for rug-
ging and attending to the rugs on 5000
sheep is absurd. A third of that would
still be a liberal estimate.
In one official N.S.W. experiment two
unpractised men rugged 100 sheep in an
hour. In most Australian experiments
the sheep have been rugged a few days
after dipping and the rugs removed before
crutching and shearing ; i.e., the rugs are
put on twice and removed twice in the
season. An allowance of 2\ per cent, for
interest, repairs and replacements would
be ample.
On that basis, figures for 5000 sheep
would be:
Depreciation .. .. . . £292 0 0
.21 p.c. interest, repairs, etc. .. 22 10 0
Extra labor .. .. .. 50 0 0
£364 10 0
The increased value of the wool at
Is. lOd. per head would give a balance
of £93 10s. in favor of the rugged sheep
—figures which square with South Aus-
tralian experience.
There are manifold advantages from
rugging in directions other than increased
quality and quantity of wool. It has
been proved repeatedly in S. Australia
and Vic. that lambs from rugged ewes
will put on as much as lib. weight per
week more than lambs from unrugged
ewes. In my opinion this aspect is more
important than the increased yield and
wool value.
Entero-toxaemia Inoculation.
“Bungaree”: Deaths from entero-
toxaemia have been reported from vari-
“ This'll teach me to be more careful
with my bumpers, Wont it, sir ?”
ous parts of N. S. Wales. There is
little roughage left as a result of the
drought, and the new growth is affecting
crossbred lambs in particular.
There is no cure for acute entero-
toxaemia, but inoculation will cure the
disease in its early stages, and immunity
can be obtained for about 12 months
by two or more inoculations. No vaccine
has been discovered which will counter-
balance more than a small quantity of
toxin in the stomach, and one dose will
certainly not do the trick with lambs.
The best plan is to immunise ewes
before lambing, as this protects lambs
for the first few weeks. Lambs should
be inoculated at marking time. This will
save handling and knocking about, and
no after-affects should be felt by the
lambs if the job is done well.
Where a Commonwealth Serum Lab.
vaccine is used, a dose of 5 c.c. should
be given. Lambs which are already
affected with e.-t. beyond the sub-acute
stage will die in any case within a day
or so. It is possible that if e.-t. is not
severe a single dose may see the lambs
through the season, but should any fur-
ther deaths occur within five or six weeks
of the first inoculation a further 5 c.c.
should be given at once. Last year in
Victoria it was found necessary on
occasions to give third doses.
There is no need to worry about giving
too large a dose —the greater the quan-
tity of vaccine, the more effect it will
have. Valuable sheep should in all cases
be given a second 10-c.c. dose.
False Economy in Shearing Costs.
“C.V.S.”: By having one man doing
both classing and experting in a five-
stand shed putting through about 10,000
sheep, the saving would be £24 at most.
At 71b. per head this comes to .082 d.
per lb. over the entire clip. But it might
result in a loss of more than 10 times
that amount.
■Not many men are fully competent at
both jobs, and there is often far more
work than one man can attend to. Really
good classing may mean the difference
between sale and withdrawal.
Even a 50-bale clip is better classed
in the shed if possible. The cost is less
than for store classing, and piece-picking
and skirting are under the classer’s care.
Young classers who can do the job satis-
factorily are usually obtainable.
Caring for Old Ewes.
“Lion”: I have done well with old
ewes by setting aside an 80-acre paddock
with good feed as a “hospital.” Into it
went all ewes getting weak. By June I
had 110 picked out. They lambed 80
p.c. As “patients” gained full strength
they were returned to their old paddocks.
None so far have lost their lambs, which
are 8-9 weeks old. The lambs saved will
replace all other losses to date, and I
still have their mothers, which would
otherwise have died.
The “hospital” was shut off from the
time drought appeared certain. To-day
it is still carrying enough feed for the
80-odd sheep and lambs in it. Any
work, such as marking, was done in tem-
porary yards. Shifting old sheep in a
bad time is harmful.
Some paddocks ran out of water. I
found it cheaper and more effective to
put a scooping plant into the creeks
than drive the sheep to water in the
paddock adjoining. Mustering alone
knocks the sheep about, and they don’t
get the water when they want it.
Plenty of bonemeal salt lick was avail-
able to all paddocks, also four bags of
potatoes and a little wheat to 1000 ewes
and lambs every other day. Results have
been remarkable in conjunction with a
green but watery pick. A general 52
p.c. marking of good lambs is still being
maintained.
Scrub, such as box, etc., isn’t of much
value to in-lamb ewes. Buying feed pays
in the end if freight and costs are not
abnormal.
Blowfly Experience.
“Kyabra”: On one W. Queensland
sheep property the boss gave me a sulky
and horsefeed and instructions to work
on my own against fly.
The property carried approx. 15,000
ewes, and with 40 traps 1 reckoned on
accounting for just on four million flies
in the s:: ron. Our sheep losses were
practically nil, yet neighboring stations
suffered as much as 5 per cent.
That was in 1931, and wages without
an award were £2 ss. per week. I was
just three months on the job, and my
£4O was well spent.
The traps were of the _ kerosene-tin
type recommended by the Agricultural
Department, but in the making care was
taken to ensure that no daylight showed
between the tins and from the opening
where the flies are tempted to enter. This
is important, and if it is not watched
the flies breeding from the maggot
formed on the offal will escape and may
not enter the trap again.
A Dairy Stock Trough.
“G.F.Y.”: Cut the top and bottom
out of a kerosene-tin. Then cut it down
the vertical seam, flatten it out and trim
the ends square. With fretsaw or chisel
shape two 7in. semicircular ends from
suitable inch board, the grain running


3248.
-n
U
jn
&
We don’t wish to brag about our Footwear, but this Boot is really worth'
mentioning. Double Soles, Water-resisting Ooze Calf Uppers, reinforced
Elastic in sides and Leather lining throughout.
Stocked in full and half sizes and in wide and extra-wide fittings.
Price 45/- in Brown.
“Jj- it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
53 Castlereagh
m
SniMSSf
ms
m
it
m
■
<•*?
*J«>!
One Owner Who Has Bought No
Less Thun NINE
MODEL “M” TRACTORS
Reports: Exceedingly economical on fuel, averaging
under 1 gal. per working hour. Remarkably free from
Breakdown or any Mechanical Troubles. Always on
the job and No Time Lost.
THE IDEAL TRACTOR FOR
TANK or DAM SINKING.
Headquarters
- House
EDWARD S?
BRISBANE
dsf
NQBranch
STURTS!
TOWNSVILLE
ENGINEERING Supply cvcf AUSTRALIA tfP
ffie'fy-allefz'n-
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Save the middleman’s profits by
buying all your
TOBACCO
DIRECT FROM THE FACTORY
These Empire-grown Tobaccos are of high quality
—specially blended—aromatic in flavour and
smooth smoking.
With all orders over £1 in all lines, you are
offered.
FREE
a Briar or Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch,
Cigarette Lighter or Holder.
First crop, mild . . • •
All British, mild
Riverhead Gold, medium
Old Peter, medium
Cavendish, strong . .
Beech Nut, medium
Africa, mellow and mild
Soldiers’ Own, mild . .
Normandie, medium . .
Winning Post, medium . .
Three Bells, strong
Bird’s Eye, medium
Latakia, in pipe only . .
White Lodge, medium . .
White Lodge, light
Barlock Flake, light and dark
Cahills, medium
Union Leader, medium . .
Tender Leaf, medium . .
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only
Special Heavy Extra . .
Per lb.
. 6/3
. 6/3
. 6/3
. 6/3
. 6/3
. 6/9
. 6/9
. 7/3
. 7/9
. 8/-
. 8/-
. 8/-
. 10/-
. 10/-
. 11/-
. 8/6
. 10/9
. 11/-
. U/-
. 8/-
• 6/-
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild .. .. 7/6
“Skipper,” medium . . . . 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong . . . . 7/6
“Three Sailors” . . . . 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” . . . . 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks . . 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks . . 6/6
“P.M.” Dark Plug . . . . 6/6
Zig Zags . . . . 5 for I/-
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add I/- per lb. Postage in other States.
COMBINED GROWERS
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
18 COMMERCIAL ROAD. BRISBANE.
horizontally. Tack the ends from your tin
on to these with two or three clouts,
and with snips trim to shape, leaving
outside and round the wood ; beat
this selvedge neatly round the wood and
complete the trough with 3in. by lin.
side rails about 40in. long.
The projecting ends are handy to tie
or nail the trough to fence or wall. The
soldering of the inside corners is an easy
matter, and the trough has only cost a
penn’orth of solder and 20 minutes’ time.
Larger troughs can be made by solder-
ing two sheets of kerosene tins together
or from galvanised iron or sheet-metal.
They’re the thing for calf-feeding or
wash-basin. The longer troughs will need
a cross-tie of metal or wood, or a sub-
division.
A Triumph for the A.I.S.
“Mt. Boppy”: The 20 leading cows in
the Australian Illawarra Shorthorn
Society’s recent lactation test averaged
2.91 b. butterfat, equal to 3.51 b. com-
mercial butter, each per day. At Is. per
pound this was equal to about £5 per
month per cow. Seven cows owned by
Plashett Pastoral Co., Singleton (N.S.W.),
won with an average for 273 days of
791.581 b. butterfat each.
Best was Plashett Pearlie 7th, whose
1056.411 b. of fat was the best individual
record during the contest, and second
only to that of her famous ancestress,
Melba XV., which still stands as the
world’s best. Pearlie’s yield was equal to
851 b. of milk and 4.41 b. of commercial
butter a day.
Second place was filled by the team
owned by J. T. Young and Sons New-
stead Hinton (N.S.W.), with 784.181 b.
b.f. average. W. H. Thompson, Alta
Vale, Nanango (Q.), was third, his team
of seven averaging 729.831 b. b.f.
Commonwealth-wide, the competition
proved a great boost for Australia s own
dairy breed, and 350 cows averaged more
than 4001 b. b.f. each for 273 days 123
exceeded 5001 b. each, 47 exceeded 6001 b.,
20 exceeded 7001 b., seven exceeded 8001 b.,
four exceeded 9001 b. and one exceeded
10001 b.
Milking-herd Technique.
“Silky Bag”: It is essential to keep
dairy cows at top production by regular
milking hours.
Often cows are milked at 3 p.m. and
at six o’clock next morning. In actual
hours of secretion, the cow’s day is thus
divided into one nine-hour and one 15-
hour period. The longer one occurs at
night, when it is cold and the cow fre-
quently lies on or exposes her bag to
chills. Any “flush” cow on good feed
probably ceases secretion after 12 or 13
hours, so that she may spend two or
three of the coldest hours with very little
blood going through the udder to keep it
healthy—hence much mastitis.
Evenly-spaced milkings pay not only
in health but because the cow produces
more and is given little cause to dry-off.
Another aid is to maintain conditions
which make a cow want to come to the
bails. ' If feeding, never break off sud-
denly. A cow learns to give milk freely
only by association of ideas, so see that
the same causes operate regularly.
Don’t let cows stay long in the yards.
A few hours’ freedom is worth a lot
in allowing the cow to top-off on grass
before lying down.
New Wheat Country.
“A.A.D.”: A stretch of 50 miles of
good mixed farming country on the
Camurra to Boggabilla (N.S.W.) line is
the State’s latest addition to the wheat
belt. It has made considerable develop-
ment.
Last year it was first with wheat in the
Sydney market. North Star is the prin-
cipal centre, but farmers have ten sidings
between Milging and the border. Among
the outposts, Mungle Scrub, once over-
run with prickly-pear (since routed by
Cactoblastis ) and wild pigs, is produc-
ing first-class crops of medium-strong
wheats. There is a big future for hard
wheats, for which extensive areas and
climatic conditions are especially suited.
Last season up to 9d. a bushel premium
was realised in Sydney. Production costs
are low. Only the short summer fallow
is necessary, and super, is not used since
it gives no response. Crops are now for-
ward and flourishing.
Living Area.
“Long Blow”: The size of a living
area (B. 17/8/’3B) depends in part on
costs, many of them beyond the con-
trol of the primary producers. It is true
that pasture improvement and water con-
servation have increased carrying capa-
city, but much of the western division
of N.S.W. and Queensland carries not
a tithe of what it did 40 years ago.
When I was a boy, close to Monaro,
the old hands could afford to pay £3
per acre for a-sheep-to-the-acre country,
and wool then was around 9d. per lb.
fair average. I remember a man who
kept his hat on in his banker’s office
because his clip averaged Bd. per ib.
Wool was worth little more at the close
of last selling season, but costs in general
were probably 200 p.c. over those of
30 years ago.
Then many far N.S.W. North Coast
farms ran a cow to the acre, but to-day
they can run only one cow to three
acres. Work that out, in terms of butter
prices.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bundalinga”: Cattle fed on scrub,
willows or kurrajongs in drought times
are subject to impaction. It is wise to
begin preventive treatment immediately
drought feeding starts, and to continue
it till there is green feed again. Different
conditions require different treatment;
but a lick that helps is made of one part
of Epsom salt, three parts of Liverpool
salt and four parts of molasses. If the
lick is given early enough it should pre-
vent trouble.
“Bluey”: When boring tough posts a
fin. bit cleans and runs better than a
j-in. bit. Moisture evaporates quickly
from the larger hole and does not rust
the wire as much as in holes.
“A. 8.”: To strengthen the handle of
a claw-hammer or similar tool knock
out the iron wedge and bore a -jin. hole
straight down through the eye into the
handle, about 4in. deep. Cut off neatly
a 3iin. length of round iron and drive it
down to bottom of hole. Fill up the top
with a wooden peg and re-drive the iron
wedge. This will add strength at the
point where extra strength is most needed
—it is just under the eye that handles
usually break.
“Bundalinga”: When a horse starts
itching, stamping, rubbing one leg against
the other, and a gummy, yellowish dis-
charge, with odor, comes from the skin
above the hoof, the trouble is greasy
heels. Start treatment early, and keep
it up. Clip the leg, and wash thoroughly
with soap and warm water. When the
skin dries, soak the leg for a quarter
of an hour in 3oz. each of bluestone,
alum and sulphate of zinc to a gallon
of water. Dress daily with the same
lotion at half strength, vigorously scrub-
bing the diseased spots with a piece ol
cotton-wool. Let the horse have exer-
cise ; rest favors the complaint
“Jumbuck”: Legislation is needed to
control the trucking of sheep. Over-
loading often causes deaths and injury.
A man was fined recently for trucking
148 sheep by rail from Goulburn
(N.S.W.) to Moss Vale in such a manner
as to cause them suffering; 14 sheep
died and 30 were hurt. Evidence was
that the double-deck van used could not
carry more than 112-115 of the descrip-
tion loaded. Stock inspectors, police and
railway officers should be empowered to
decide numbers, according to condition,
each truck can carry. Bruised carcasses
are the frequent result of overcrowding.
“Porcine”: The case for wheat feed-
ing for pigs (B. 10/8/’3B) has been fur-
thered by investigations in the Tweed-
Richmond (N.S.W.) area this season.
Overfeeding of baconers on maize was
found to produce soft yellow fat, instead
of the desired firm and white and fine-
textured lean flesh. More wheat and
mill offals with the maize and milk will
add quality to coastal bacon and pork
without overloading production costs.
“Mt. Boppy”: Two years ago D. B.
Maher, of Murga (N.S.W.), had 50 acres
infested with stinkwort. The country was
too rough for implements, but by hand
lcwt. of superphosphate was distributed
per acre. Now grass and clover have
choked out the stinkwort.


'
.
% < -v J -
%® : i
■
I:
I
■k .
WELL TO EE
If
•-. iIHWWO
' f f
-v.'. .v.vC^v^^*
> ,
'IH
ST#*,
'' 1
.. "'' it*-'/'-.' s < y >ms»§«v.j 5s
iW v "”
-
JHB
I \ 111
A l| 4 f
It* I I
.. i
P” " .-'x> '•: 'VV, 3
V ' : ’
•■■;■ >:• '
7,
M
.1
I *
m
Mi&t
S ' '
’
:••:• • ■
J M&' t |
J ;;intMM«mAi>i i i,i, li ;
\L ‘
fli
#•1
: :
liilisill
■ :
m.
&ovf.
.
. f m
■ •■■■■ : v ' ■ . ' ' .
< / '■■ *V ■ ’L. * *%X
i *
p> «
>/. *
v
I*?/*
* I. f
■W
IS
Nisi
«
* A
L -•- '
TOOHEYS
OATMEAL STOUT
TOOHEYS, LTD., SYDNEY.
g nts. VICTORIA Goldabrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
rFMTD?V A 2?~ Burns ' Phil P & Co - Ltd., Brisbane.
ctINTRAL Q LAND—Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
WF^?PM U ?7rcTD l A^TI Da l gely & Co > Ltd > Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F REELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and £.arn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
The BENGALI. Hand Forged Blue Steel RAZOR
1937
Hand Forged
by craftsmen
unth a lifetime’s ex-
perience in the art of
Razor forging.
Bengali Razors have Correct Heat Treatment, the
most important process in the manufacture of a Razor.
Try a BENGALI, BLUE STEEL RAZOR.
Sizes, sin., #in., 2in., Black Handle .... 12/6
” *■> » » Xylo. Handle .... 15/-
Obtamable from all Wholesale and Retail Houses.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Educated man (54), Sydney, active and sober,
would render light services, clerical, shop, mes-
sages, etc., few hours a day in return for home
or room, city or country.—7sB.
Mechanic, wide exp. with trucks and tractors
and Diesel exp. in Canada, seeks employment.
—749.
Plumber (32), class 3 reg., wishing to travel
outback Queensland, would like to get in touch
with builders or station owner with view to
obtaining employment for short periods. Used
to all windmill, hot and cold water, septic tank
and tank-making work.—76B.
To buy The Imperturbable Duchess, by J. D.
Beresford.—774.
Address of Bulletin reader in Central
Queensland who would appreciate back copies
of the “Reader’s Digest and the “Austra-
lasian.” —757.
Information Sought.
What are ultra-violet and infra-red rays, and
what is their relation to white light ? —779.
Visible light extends from red through
orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo to violet.
Ultra-violet rays lie above the visible violet rays
in the spectrum. Ultra-violet rays cause no
sensation to the optic nerves, but they produce
tanning of the skin. They cannot pass through
window glass, and are hindered by mist and
dust. Infra-red rays are invisible ravs lying
lower in the spectrum than the red rays. In
addition to their heating effects, they are used
in infra-red photography. The two terms are
derived from the Latin, “ultra” meaning “be-
yond,” and “infra” “under.”
* * * *
(1) What method is used in the reproduc-
tion of a drawing as a woodcut ? (2) As a steel
engraving ? (3) How is a drawing enlarged or
reduced in size from the original? —sBo.
(1) and (2) The drawing is copied as accu-
rately as may be on to the wood or steel
surface and then either carved or engraved.
(3) By photography.
* * * *
Can a petrol engine be successfully and eco-
nomically converted into a semi-Diesel, and, if
so, what would be the cost? —693.
Such a conversion would not be satis-
factory, economical or safe. The engine would
be subjected to a greater strain than that for
which it was made, and the cost of convert-
ing would be nearly as great as that of a new
engine.
* * * *
Method of calculating the compression ratio
in an internal-combustion engine, given bore,
stroke, etc. ? —759.
Compression ratio is the volume of gas in
the cylinder when the inlet valve has just
closed, divided by the volume of gas in the
cylinder after the compression stroke has been
completed. Measure the distance from the sur-
face of the piston to the cylinder head when
the inlet valve has just closed, this distance
being again measured when the piston has
reached the top of its stroke. Assuming that
piston head and cylinder head are flat, the
compression ratio is equal to the larger figure
divided by the smaller. For an accurate answer
an exact calculation of these two volumes must
be made which will include the area over the
valves.
H* *l*
How to eradicate ants which are making a
nuisance of themselves around the bungalow
on my New Guinea coconut plantation ? —622.
You don’t say what sort of ants. It is quite
likely, however, that they may be the Singa-
pore ant (Monomorium sp.) or a near ally. You
might try either of the following methods : (a)
A mixture of 1£ grammes (metric) white arsenic,
lib. sugar, 1 pint water. Mix to a syrup and
expose in tins where the ants run. The secret
of success with this method is to use the arsenic
weak enough for the ants to get back to the
nest and feed those inside it. If this happens
the whole nest dies. If, however, dead ants
are noticed lying about on the ground, usually
along their tracks, it is an indication that the
mixture is too strong, and consequently this
back-poisoning effect is not operating It should
then be broken down to contain about 1 gramme
of arsenic. ( b ) One part Paris green (or two
parts lead arsenate) by weight to 50 parts
maizemeal. This should be thoroughly mixed
and spread thinly on the tracks frequented by
the ants.
* * * *
(1) Equipment necessary for a wood-wool
manufacturing plant ? (2) Capital required ?
(3) How many such plants in Australia, annual
production and market requirements ? (4)
Where can further details on the subject be
obtained ? —678.
(1) The equipment necessary for wood-wool
manufacture consists of a docking saw, a
woodsplitter, a barking machine, a wood-wool
machine, a knife and spur grinder, a baling
press, a drier and a set of scales. (2) The
capital cost of the plant without the drier and
building and land would be about £lOOO for an
output of approximately one ton per day. (3)
About 15 wood-wool plants exist in Australia,
of which 11 are located in Tasmania. It is
difficult to obtain precise figures, but the local
market, which is satisfied by these plants, takes
about 2000 tons per annum. (4) For further
details, consult the Division of Forest Products,
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research,
Yarra Bank Road, South Melbourne, 5.C.4,
Victoria.
* * * *
If l make a loan of £l5O to be repaid at the
rate of £2 10s. per fortnight, interest at 12 p.c.
p.a., how much is still owing to me at the end of
12 months? —796.
Following the ordinary practice in these mat-
ters, interest would be assessed at £4l 11s.,
based on the period required to repay £l5O at
255. per week. In a year £65 would be repaid,
leaving an indebtedness of £126 11s. As in all
instalment transactions of this sort the real
rate of interest is far higher than 12 p.c.
* * * *
Particulars of the three largest telescopes in
the United States? —671.
The largest telescope in the United States
is the 200 in. reflector (not yet completed) situ-
ated at Mount Palomar. Its length is 60ft.
Telescopes are usually referred to by the
diameter of their mirror. The next largest is
the lOOin. telescope at Mount Wilson (50ft.
long). The McDonald at Mount Locke is an
80in. telescope. Other large telescopes in North
America are the 80in. telescope of the David
Dunlap Observatory at Toronto and the 72in.
telescope at Victoria, B.C.
* * * *
Why is it that a car engine, while running
satisfactorily at or near sea-level, lacks power
and overheats at high altitudes? —745.
At sea-level the air exerts a pressure of about
151 b. per sq. in., but as the altitude increases
the pressure decreases. At 5000 ft. above sea-
level it is 12.31 b. per sq. in., and at 10,000 ft.
101 b. This reduction in air pressure reduces
the compression pressure in the cylinders. Thus,
if this pressure were 641 b. at sea-level, it would
be 491 b. at 5000 ft. and 37.91 b. at 10,000 ft.
Secondly, as the height increases the percentage
of oxygen in the atmosphere becomes less.
Therefore, unless the carburettor is readjusted
to suit the changed conditions, an overrich
mixture, slow combustion and overheating will
result.
* * * *
(1) What is the value of soya-bean flour as
a food to Australians; that is, are its proper-
ties available to the Australian system as they
are to the Japanese, who use it largely? (2)
Would the inclusion of this flour in diet be
likely to be harmful to Australians, and if
included should other foods be deleted or re-
duced in the diet to make way for it ? (3)
I suffer from constipation and acidosis. Fresh
fruit is too acid for me and l prefer biscuits
or chocolates. Would this cause any harm ?
(4) Where is soya-bean flour obtainable ? (5)
Would a course of a prepared food made with
hot boiled milk be constipating ? —709.
(1) and (2) The soya bean is the richest of
all the pulses in protein, and contains large
amounts of fat and minerals. It is as suit-
able a component of an Australian diet as of
any other, and its use would call for no reduc-
tion in the intake of other foods. A synthetic
milk has been prepared from the bean, and
this closely resembles cow’s milk in chemical
and physical properties and can replace it to
a large extent for many purposes. The flour
has been placed on the market, and may be
combined with ordinary flour in the making of
buns, pastry and scones, for which purpose it
is excellent. (3) Fresh fruits are not acid-
producing to any extent, and cannot be re-
placed in the diet by chocolates and biscuits.
(4) Write Sanitarium Health Food Co., 13
Hunter-street, Sydney. (5) Very probably.
* * * *
How to remove ink stains off on aid picture
so that the surface is not damaged? —6ss.
Impossible to give any definite advice with-
out knowing the nature of the paper, the kind
of picture and the kind of ink. There is
practically no process possible to the amateur,
as chemicals which would remove inks might
remove the picture; also, inks are made in
various ways and require different removers.
If the picture is valuable it should be sent to a
professional restorer.
* * * *
How can liquorice be made up as a con-
fection, and where can supplies of the strong
liquorice be procured? —6o9.
It is bought in the form of short thick sticks
from grocers and chemists. Having its own
characteristic flavor, it needs little preparation
as a sweet, and may be made into a palatable
form by boiling together equal parts of stick
liquorice, chopped finely, and good crystal
sugar. The simplest method of making it for
home use is to take a good toffee recipe and
and chips of liquorice to taste, or until a good
black mixture is obtained. Cooking should
be done in a double boiler to avoid burning.
* * * *
How to dye a carpet using the method of
spraying the dye on? What dye is used? —593.
Use any of the commercial packet dyes, and
study the instructions on the packet carefully.
For a carpet the dye should be mixed rather
more strongly than instructed, and a small
corner should be tested before doing the lot.
Two sprayings may be necessary. The work is
more usually done by laying the carpet out on
the grass and brushing in the dye with a stiff,
strong brush. Make certain that you buy a
dye suitable for heavy materials and not one
used for silks. .
*** * •
Results of recent competitions conducted by
the Australian Song Writers’ Club ? —7OO.
Popular song (prize £5 55.), Mr. George
Nicholls, Vic., “I Can’t Forget You”; concert-
platform song (prize £5 55.), Mrs. K. Green
and H. A. Gleeson, Vic., in collaboration, A
Scamp of the Road”; lyric (prize £2 25.), Miss
M. E. Hissey, N. S. Wales, “The Sun, the Wind
and the Rain.” The judges were Ivan Tait,
of Allan & Co.; Miss Margot Sheridan, of
3AW Melbourne; and Reg Browne, of 3DB
Melbourne.
* * * *
(1) Who wrote the lines:
Animula, vagula, blandula,
Hospes, comesque corporis,
Qua, nunc abibis in locaf
Pallidula, rigida, nudula,
Nec, i it soles, dabis jocos i ■
(2) Translation? —681.
(1) The lines are from the pen of the Emperor
Hadrian (b. 76 a.d.), and are an epigrammatic
address to the soul. They are to be found in
the Oxford Book of Latin Verse. (2) The
translation runs: “Poor little soul, fugitive and
charming, guest and attendant of the body, to
what regions wilt thou now depart? Pale, stiff,
naked—nor shalt thou, as is thy wont, make
merry.” Both Matthew Prior (“To His Soul”)
and Alexander Pope (“The Dying Christian to
His Soul”) have written lines which are at
least based on Hadrian’s.
* * * *
Will the use of magnesite with cement stop
it from fire-cracking, and, if so, where can it
be bought? —881.
If you are referring to “crazing” on the sur-
face of the cement, which is known in the build-
ing trade as “fire-cracking,” the best method of
avoiding it is to work up the surface of a
cement-and-sand mixture with a wooden float.
If the work is finished with a steel trowel or
float a coating of almost neat cement is
brought to the surface, and “fire-cracking”
will invariably follow. Magnesite will not
produce any better results than sand. If by
“fire-cracking” the action of fire is meant, it
does not appear likely that magnesite would pre-
vent this. The question, however, might be re-
ferred to the Australian Cement Manufacturers’
Association, 43 Margaret-street, Sydney, for
an authoritative expression of opinion.
* * * *
(1) Is there a recognised successful treatment
for the eradication of varicose Veins? (2) How
and where can it be obtained? (3) Is it ex-
pensive ? —687.
(1) Yes; by the injection into the affected
veins of solutions which cause the veins to
shrink up and become blocked. Solutions con-
taining quinine and urethane or sodium mor-
rhuate are commonly employed. (2) Most
doctors carry out the treatment. (3) If the
number of injections required is small, the ordi-
nary fees are usually charged at each visit;
if the trouble is extensive a proportionate reduc-
tion is made. A charge of 10 guineas would
cover the cost of several weeks’ treatment.
(1) According to a newspaper report, rheuma-
toid arthritis has been successfully treated in
America by dosing with large quantities of
vitamin D in capsule form. Has this treatment
been tried in Australia, and, if so, with what
results ? (2) Is vitamin D in capsule form obtain-
able in Australia? (3) What foods are richest
in vitamin D ? —679.
(1) No official results yet published as to the
results of this treatment in Australia. (2) Sold
in concentrated form under many different trade
names, ostelin, calciferol, ergosterol, calfo-rayol
among others. The preparations are very
powerful in action and should be taken only
under medical advice. (3) Fish oils (liver of
the halibut and the cod) and dairy produce.
* * * *
Did Jack Johnson and Sam Langford ever
fight each other? If so, when and where did
the contest take place, and what was the re-
sult ? —7BO.
They fought at Chelsea, Mass., in 1906.
Langford, eight years younger, six inches shorter
and 45 pounds lighter than Johnson, was beaten
on points in 15 rounds. When Langford later
developed into a real heavyweight he challenged
Johnson consistently, but his challenges were
not accepted.
* * * *
Where did Billy Murphy and Griffo fight
each other in Sydney, and who was the winner?
—744.
They first met at Foley’s Athletic Club,
George-street, on September 3, 1890, and on
the second occasion at the Sydney Amateur
Gymnastic Club on July 22, 1891. Griffo won
both battles, their first in 16 rounds and the
second in 22.
* * * *
(1) Where and when was Bob Fitzsimmons
born ? (2) Where and when did he die ? (3)
What was his age when he began boxing? (4)
How old was he when he won the world’s
middleweight, light-heavyweight and heavy-
weight championships ? —721.
(1) Helston, Cornwall (Eng.), June 4, 1862.
(2) Portland, Oregon (U.S.A.), October 23,
1917. (3) Just turned 18. (4) 28 when he de-
feated “Nonpareil” Jack Dempsey for the
world’s middleweight championship; in his 35th
year when he won the world’s heavyweight
championship from Jim Corbett, and 41 when
he won the light-heavyweight world’s champion-
ship from George Gardner.
* * * *
(1) Where and when was boxer Bill Lang
born, and is that his right name? (2) From
whom did Lang win the Australian heavyweight
championship, and when? (3) To whom did he
lose it, and when ? (4) Who is the present
world’s bantamweight champion, and how did
he win the title? —632.
(1) Melbourne, July 8, 1883 ; real name Wil-
liam Langfranchi. (2) From Bill Squires in
1909. (3) To Dave Smith in 1913. (4) Sixto
Escobar, of Puerto Rica. Escobar first won this
title by knocking out Tony Marino in 14
rounds at New York City on August 31, 1936.
Harry Jeffra then outpointed Escobar in New
York on September 23, 1937, but Escobar re-
gained the championship by outpointing Jeffra
in San Juan, Puerto Rica, on February 20 last.
* * * *
(1) What were Trumper’s centuries in England
in 1902 (the record broken by Bradman in
England this year ) ? (2) His average for the
tour, and how dismissed? —514.
(1) 101 v. Surrey, 121 v. Oxford Uni., 105 v.
M.C.C., 128 v. Cambridge Uni., 113 v. Eng-
land XI, 104 v. England, 109 v. Essex, 119 v.
Essex, 125 v. Gloucestershire, 127 v. Players,
120 v. South of England. (2) 53 innings, 0 not-
outs, 2570 runs, average 48.49; caught 22
times, bowled 20, run out 3, l.b.w. 5, stumped 3.
Brief Answers.
J.D.: Get in touch with the Division of Wood
Technology, Forestry Commission of N. S.
Wales, Sydney....J.H.G.: Lady Wentworth’s
Thoroughbred Racing Stock should be available
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney, in about
seven weeks’ time, price 90s. (postage 25.)....
H.K.: Diesel Engine College, A.M.P. Chambers,
Bth Floor, Queen-street, Brisbane. Rates and
particulars are being sent direct by the col-
lege R.J.M.: Any bank can arrange for
you a remittance overseas by draft, mail
transfer or cable... .A.A.M.G.: The sugar in-
dustry has not received any subsidy, bounty
or other form of financial assistance from the
Commonwealth Government since 1912. The
industry is protected and controlled by an
agreement between the Commonwealth and
Queensland Governments, the main features
of which are an embargo on the importation
into Australia of foreign sugar, the fixation of
the selling prices of refined sugar and other
sugar products to manufacturers and whole-
salers in Australia, and the responsibility of the
industry for any loss accruing from the export
of surplus sugar. In essence, this plan is similar
to those applying to the butter and dried-
fruits industries... .E.L.8.: Can trace no refer-
ence to such a pension J.R.H.: Charles
Ritchie, Ltd., 52 York-street, Sydney, has some
6in. glass letters. If these are unsuitable they
will have to be obtained from Nash and Hull,
Ltd., 87 New Oxford-street, London, or from S.
Trenner and Sons, Gray’s Inn-road, London....
8.F.W.: Walden, or Life in the Woods is the
title of the best-known work of the American
poet and naturalist Henry David Thoreau, and
takes its name from Walden Ponds, Concord,
where he lived and wrote. It was first published
in 1854. An Everyman’s edition is obtainable
from leading book stores, 3s G.F.: It is
on the right-hand side of the road going from
Sydney to Melbourne A.A.: Appointments
as locomotive fireman or locomotive driver are
not made from outside the Commonwealth
railways service. Application for employment
as engine-cleaner should be made to the Chief
Engineer, Commonwealth Railways, Port
Augusta W.S.: (1) Yes, permission must be
secured from the Chief Secretary, Sydney. (2)
Racing can be conducted only under license.
(3) The Government has stated it will not grant
any further licenses in the State. (4) Costs £3OO
to £lOOO, according to class of equipment and
lighting A.H.W.: Elliotts and Australian
Drug, Ltd., O’Connell-street, Sydney A.F.:
After receiving his certificate he is free to carry
on business, as in the case of an ordinary
citizen, whether such business be similar to
that before bankruptcy or not... .C.R.G.G.:
There are many formulae for the manufacture
of depilatories. Some of the preparations com-
monly used are to be found in Twentieth
Century Formulas, Processes and Trade Secrets
(Norman W. Henley Publishing Company, New
York; 295.). Great care is necessary in the
use of these agents, as certain of them, in the
hands of the unwary, may cause severe irritation
of the skin. You would be wise to go carefully
before “experimenting with something of the
kind on a large scale”... .D.F.C.: Cecil
Beaton’s Scrapbook was published in Septem-
ber, 1937, by B. T. Batsford, Ltd., 15 North
Audley-street, London... .F.H.M.C.: Write
N.S.W. Bowling Assoc. and Aust. Golf
Council —both Sydney—for their “Greens Re-
search Bulletins”... .M.M.1.: (1) A Coroner is
also a Justice of the Peace and may order wit-
nesses out of court when in his discretion it is
thought desirable to do so. (2) Yes, outside
their employment by the State E.E.S.: Write
American Consulate-General, Box 3887 T,
G.P.0., Sydney J.M.P.: As you did not
enter a theatre of ‘war on duty or embark for
service overseas you are not eligible for any
war service medals... .R.J.G.: It would not
be possible to work an electric fence off a
motor-car. A special appliance which is
patented is required. It is quite possible that
the electric fence would be satisfactory in pre-
venting wallabies from getting into a crop, but
it would not be advisable to use it except for
temporary purposes. For a permanent fence it
would be better to use wire-netting, as it
would be cheaper in the long run
F.G.H.: (1) and (3) In view of the repudiation
of the debt the matter would probably have to
be fought out in the Equity Court, and for
that purpose you would need professional
advice and assistance at considerable cost.
(2) N0....A.A.: The charge of 7s. 3d. on the
drawings forwarded by post from Maoriland
represented a claim made by inadvertence in
respect of sales tax, the examining officer being
unaware at the time of the purpose for which
the drawings were intended. Drawings in-
tended for newspaper reproduction are exempt
from sales tax and are not otherwise dutiable.
... .J.D.: From inquiries made locally, there is
at present little demand for ebony. Several
tons of Queensland ebony of good quality are
at present available in Sydney, but a buyer
cannot be found. No information is available
with regard to the amount of heartwood, which
in most trees varies according to the rate of
growth. The timber should be seasoned slowly
enough to avoid excessive checking, but there
is no particular advantage in soaking it in
water. The wood is usually sold by weight.
... .A.C.: The approximate amount of customs
duty, primage duty and sales tax payable on a
silver watch valued at £7 would be: Watch,
n.e.i., if of United Kingdom origin £2, if of
foreign origin £3 12s. 6d.; wristlet watch, if of
United Kingdom origin £1 125., if of foreign
origin £3 12s. 6d A.T.L.: Four years and
six months’ imprisonment, dating from Sept. 7,
1937.


Australian
Ski Championships
Kosciusko, 24-30 Sept.
To be Contested on the Perisher Course
above Betts Camp.
Inter-State and International Entrants for
the Big Events.
Transport arranged from the Hotel Kosciusko.
INCLUSIVE TOUR TICKET
covering rail and motor fares, meals en
route and a full week at the Hotel over
the Championship period—
£9/51-
including use of ski-boots and sporting
material, and transport to the snowline.
See Australia’s Best Skiers in Action.
Party Leaves Sydney Friday , 23rd September.
Ask for Pictorial Folder.
N.S.W. Government Tourist Bureau
Challis House, 8 Martin Place, Sydney.
Branch Bureau at Wynyard Station.
Tel.: 8W4471 (4 lines).
NO USE.MISS O&Uit'fLtUl
m
wmm
No matter how hard you
brush, your teeth won’t
really sparkle unless you
use the right tooth paste
- Pepsodent, containing
the thrilling new dental
discovery, IRIUM. Irium
ends Scrub - Hard disap-
pointment. It gets you
results from proper brush-
ing, makes your teeth
sparkle with a brilliant
natural lustre.
RECAUSE OF IRIUM . • •
BE Pepsodent gently floats film
a way—instead ofscrap.ng ,t off.
- 'Thcrtouq/t!
because of irium . • •
p r p^t» r G R rr° •NO
pumice. __ SaAc !
recause of IRIUM • • •
BEC Pepsodent Tooth Paste leaves
yoEr mouth feeling clean and
wholesome.
PEPSODENT
ALONE among dentifrices CONTAI NS
THE 2/- SIZE
IS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL
mil ran
THE PEPSODENT CO. <AUST.) PTY.
ltd. (incorporated in victoria)
AUI3B/12 E
fOJ? W£M M£N AND WOMtN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
083
GL4ND
TONIC
WBLfTS
J
York Minster.
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—Lon-
don to Edinburgh, 392
miles, in six hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to—
BURNS, PHILP AND CO., LTD.,
1 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“C.Q.”: If two or three new books don’t
come out of H. G. Wells’s visit to Aus-
tralia, the eminent philosopher-author
may as well be considered a spent force.
H.G.’s tale of volumes runs into close
on the century, and his rare travellings
have always produced a new spate of
writings. He is a prodigious worker, and
in his villa on the Riviera is not seen out
of his study from breakfast time till
dinner. Then he makes his appearance
ready for whatever is forthcoming.
# * * *
A daughter of Charles Joseph Latrobe,
Victoria’s first Lieutenant-Governor, is
dead in England at 97. Had she lived
a few months longer she might have
celebrated the hundredth anniversary of
her father’s appointment as Superinten-
dent of Port Phillip. He died in 1875.
Latrobe, who married a Swiss lady not
long before he came to Australia, was
here for 14 years ; he resigned his Lieut.-
Governorship just before the affair of the
Eureka stockade.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: The Clyde, with its
Queen Mary and its Queen Elizabeth,
stands for most people as the home
and origin of marine engineering in
the British Empire. But when the Clyde
was still a salmon stream, capable
of launching nothing bigger than a fish-
ing-boat, the Scotts, of Greenock, were
flourishing builders of big ships of the
day, and had been so since 1711 in the
days of Queen Anne. This year, R. L.
Scott, sixth generation of them, will, as
chairman of Scott’s Shipbuilding and
Engineering Co., receive congratulations
on behalf of the firm for 100 years of
marine-machinery building for the
British Admiralty, the construction of
the first super-dreadnought, the first
British submarine, the first tur-
bine Atlantic liner, the first “high elastic
limit” steel-hulled ship and the world’s
largest Diesel-electric tanker. It is a
record unmatched by any shipbuilding
firm anywhere in the world.
* * * *
“Slim Kerel”: Have never been much
in sympathy with the Boer celebration
of Dingaan’s Day (B. 17/8/’3B). The
massacred party had left perfectly good
country and shoved into fertile land
inhabited by a thriving agricultural
people who needed it for themselves.
This land they proposed to acquire by
hook or crook. The Zulus wiped out
the hapless women and children left in
the laagers; horrible, but a corollary of
a Kalfir victory that every Boer in-
vader was thoroughly aware of before
he hauled his family after him into the
danger zone. It is worth noting that
the British, who entered Natal and came
in contact with the Zulus before the
Boers, got on very well with the in-
habitants and were allowed to settle
and acquire land. The Zulus were not
long in finding out that the Boers had
parted brass rags with the British be-
cause the latter had suppressed slavery.
* * * *
Britain is bringing in a law to stop
share-pushing, described as the Preven-
tion of Fraud (Investments) Bill. All
legitimate and recognised modes of financ-
ing new enterprises will be approved ; the
rest will be declared illegal. A proposi-
tion has to be “reasonable.” Anyone out-
side banks and Stock Exchanges who
wishes to deal in securities will have to
be licensed by the Board of Trade, and
the license will have to be renewed
annually. There are rights of appeal
against a refusal of licenses, and no
monopoly is granted to the Stock
Exchanges or banks.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The story has been
revived —and this time with a good deal
of evidence that it is true—that Bradman
may throw up big cricket to become
chairman of a company known as Sports
Investors. When the tale first was told it
was asserted that it was one of those
big s.p. joints so common i.n London,
and many wondered where Bradman had
found time to gain the knowledge of the
punting side of racing which would make
him worth £2500 a year—the screw
offered. It now appears that the show
will, as “a co-operative betting organisa-
tion,” arrange sports tours in England
of all kinds of games as well as organis-
ing sports tours abroad, the firm’s clients
sharing the profits, if any. Bradman
declines to discuss the matter, but a direc-
tor, Samuels, says it is considered that
a world figure like Bradman would be a
tremendous asset to the co. The Aus-
tralian should be rather lonely if he takes
on the job, since there are no other
executive officials from the Dominions
or colonies —not even from Fiji.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
N.C.: You can’t possibly rhyme “door” and
“an revoir” M.R.L.: How ever did you
manage to think up “Spring” for a subject?
O.P.: Not a bit surprised that “Mother’s
tung was spicey and hot” P.F.D.: No; but
glad to see it W.M.: At least, “Prepare Aus-
tralia!” was an honest warning J.H.: Not
a very surprising sneeze L.H.E., W.S. and
A.G.: Thin.... A.H.: “Jes’ shed a tear” was
too modest a demand E.J.G.: Forced
A.S.: No wonder you apologised to Long-
fellow... .M.D.: Tut!... .T.E.P.: C105e....
E. : Try it somewhere about Anzac Day
F. : Turn ’em up, then:
I’ve written verses by the score
On lipstick, fate and food and war,
Yet hitherto have failed to win
Approval from The Bulletin.
Once more I’ve failed, yet Destiny
Does urge me on thro’ thick and thin
To gain the heights I What ecstasy !
“Accepted by The Bulletin!”
Then nunc dimittis would I sing,
Turn up my toes, proud mannikin,
To know at last you’re publishing
My verses in The Bulletin.
P Y.: Mere description isn’t enough.'... 8.0’C.:
“Back to the Bush” is heroically hackneyed....
E.D.: There’s always bad language F.J.:
“I submit two verses herewith. For what I
am about to receive may the Lord make me
truly thankful.” You’re about to receive the
verses back while your charitable mood per-
sists... .P.E.S.: Very obliging of the roses....
K.L: Only a poet could have noticed that
birds fly and grasses sigh E.G.0.: Fell to
pieces towards the finish H.A.: Too many
corpses for our liking B.B.: Your race-
course crooks are very old friends... .N.P.:
One of the flapper weeklies might take it
C.D.: Don’t like horror stories... .A.M.W.:
Padded K.J.: You know very little about
N.S.W. police methods and court procedure.
E.J.: Poacher yarn too much like a recent
H. E. Bates story M.T.: Not up HJ.:
Type double space and on one side of paper
0n1y... .G.G.: Growing a little weary of those
boring smoking-room post-mortems F.H.:
You’ve missed the track E.W.: Last one
close... .M. 8.: N0....G.Y.: “Fumes” aren’t
strong enough M.M.: Doesn’t stick
V.D.L.: Didn’t make us laugh C.G.:
Weren’t taken in by those petty confidence men.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.P.: About as artistic as a piece of plumb-
ing.... C.L.: Hasn’t sufficient action to carry it
into print... .V.D.: Will try to struggle along
without your cartoons on the international situ-
ation. .. .K.D.: Nice-looking fashion-plates, but
no room for them here G.H.: Whatever
the animal is it is certainly not a horse....
D.W.: Oswald Pryor staked that claim over
30 years ago H.S.: Gave the art editor a
nightmare W.8.H.: Nicely posed and
balanced, but it’s lifeless G.L.: Drawing
full of crudities P.S.: So you want a
candid criticism? Aren’t you tempting fate?
....E.M.: That gag doesn’t lend itself to illus-
tration; also, it is old J.H.: That grained-
surface paper isn’t suitable for fine penwork
H.L.: One of the first of this season’s bathing
beauties, but the gag was born last summer
N.S.: Old C.T.: N0....T.R.: You’ve made
a good beginning; let us hear from you later.
J.B.Y.: Immature work A.P.: Was not
at home for wooden-looking gent, with double-
sized head... .P.P.: You have a flair for cari-
cature, but your subjects are very small fish.
C.M.K.: Frith covers that ground very
much better, thanks W.C.T.: There’s a hope
if you’re prepared to study hard for the next
few years A.C.: Washwork too streaky and
muddy... .A.M.G.: Couldn’t see the point of
the joke about the trombone player D.N.F.:
You’ve a sweeping line but very little sense
of humor H. 8.: Drawing is falling to pieces


&
%
&
m
o
tnti
|g mffiym
a
&
r
4
„ - _ & un Valley in Idaho ,
with its luxurious Lodge and popular
Challenger Inn, is the world’s newest
year-round sports resort. Ski-centre of
the nation in winter, mountain paradise
in summer, affording hot-spring bathing
all the year, it forms a spectacular addi-
tion to the chain of resorts . . .
~. which express America’s vital person-
ality and reflect her knack for play. The
tallest peaks of the Rockies look down on
Colorado Springs. The warm, invigorating
desert spreads about Arizona’s Chandler.
In New Mexico, the panorama from Lofty
Cloudcroft blends majesty with mystery.
Healing waters bubble forth at French
Lick and many more attractive spas.
Everywhere, from golden California to
rugged Maine, the tnost is made of scenic
inspiration and healthful sport.
This pattern is unified l>y great railway
systems. Swift trains, including many
ultra-modern Streamliners, make every
fascinating city a suburb of the vast out-
door playground. Safely they span the
3000 miles between coasts in as little as
60 hours, with only one car-change. In-
geniously, they create an atmosphere of
charm and comfort . . . and of perfect,
man-made air+conditioned weather!
Attentively cared for, famously dined,
thoroughly rested in Pullman sleepers,
entertained by the varied diversions in
club and observation cars, you keep fit
and alert . . . ready for the many inter-
esting side-trips suggested by liberal
stopover privileges. Low fares and low
expenses round out a perfect journey.
Vivid in scenic contrasts, hut of the same
luxury-pattern, is the voyage through the
South Seas to California ... 18 matchless
days aboard the Matson-Oceanic liners
Mariposa or Monterey . . . with colorful
calls at New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa and
Hawaii. Because of the wide choice of
transcontinental routes from Los Angeles
or San Francisco, and of trans-Atlantic
ships from New York, this is the shortest
and most flexible of all routes to England!
Everything you need to know is told in our free illustrated booklet England Actoss Ametica.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL AND INFORMATION'BUREAU
(Incorporated in U. S. A. Limited Liability)
12 Bridge Street • Sydney • Phone B-i9Bl-j
9R-1A
THE ONE-A-MINUTE BOyS AND GIRLS
By THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
I am editing the paper this week as
a substitute for our poor old chief. We
found him this morning with his head
in his hands and his elbows on a blue-
tinted foolscap-size letter on which all
we could discern were the printed charac-
ters “Melbourne, Victoria,” and the date,
August 21, 1938.
Lapsing into slang and bad grammar
—a sure sign that he was all broken
up, as it were —our unfortunate boss ex-
claimed in agonised accents, “Putting me
among the one-a-minute boys, me! Me
one of the mugs!” Then he fell off
his swivel chair, and we had to carry
him out feet first.
This left us free to examine the
obvious cause of his collapse. It read
as follows:
The Editor, The Bulletin,
252 George-street, Sydney, N. S. Wales.
Dear Sir, —Would you care to consider
commencing an astrological section in your
journal?
There is an ever-increasing demand (and
interest) on the part of the general public
relative to real astrology. And it is pos-
sible to convey practical advice, also inter-
esting reading, through such a medium.
If this suggestion interests you, I shall
be happy to submit the type of article
(and, proposition) which I have in mind.
From the angle of circulation (which I
conclude must also in the long run benefit
your advertising, etc.) astrology attracts
additional readers from the two sources,
i.e., those for it, those opposed to it. Each
type will buy your journal, the first-named
being anxious to add to their knowledge
relative to the interesting science, the last-
named being anxious to have a shot at
proving astrology wrong. (They haven’t a
hope incidentally.)
I am also constantly working (profes-
sionally) amongst business leaders here, also
amongst the intellectually minded O'.A,
thinking people). Have you personally
ever considered the advantages which you
would gain by having your horoscope
worked out, and using it from the angle
of making the most of Nature's at times
favorable ( positive ) moods relative to de-
velopment, and the least of her at times
negative ones? My fee for horoscope is
five guineas (such document being based
upon the time —date, place of birth).
At times I work out for firms the horo-
scope of their business (based upon the in-
ception of the company). This again is a
very practical (wise) measure.
An Astrology column in The Bul-
letin! In the alternative —if alternative
it is—five guineas for a horoscope, the
subject or patient being an editor rising
57. No wonder the old boy flopped!
It is on record that astrology was
abandoned as an exploded superstition
before Queen Anne died —if Queen Anne
is really dead. The credit is assigned
by historians to Dean Swift. As the
Encyclopcedia Britannica puts it, Swift
administered “the death-blow to astrology
by his famous squib entitled Predictions
for the Year 1708, by Isaac Bickerstafj,
Esq ”
The Dean began “by professing pro-
found belief in the art,” and then, “in
the happiest vein of parody,” soared into
the realm of astrological prophecy.
“My first prediction is but a trifle ; it
refers to Partridge, the Almanac-maker.
I have consulted the star of his nativity
by my own rules, and find he will infal-
libly die upon the 29th of March, about
eleven at night, of a raging fever. There-
fore, I advise him to consider of it and
settle his affairs in time.” *
Then there appeared “a letter to a
person of quality giving a full and par-
ticular account of the death of Partridge
on the very day and nearly at the hour
mentioned.”
Partridge was the most notorious
astrologer of his time. He protested to
all England that he was alive, and “got
a literary friend to write a pamphlet to
prove it.” Having thus, as he thought,
established the fact that he wasn’t dead,
he brought out his almanac, as usual, in
1709.
The Dean was more than a match for
him. Replying to the protestations that
Partridge hadn’t gone under to the raging
fever, he “abused the astrologer for his
want of manners in giving a gentleman
the lie.” Partridge’s arguments for his
continued existence were answered one
by one, and the Dean wound up by
declaring that the appearance of another
almanac was no evidence at all, since
“Gadbury, Paul Robin, Dove and Way
do yearly publish their almanacs, though
several of them have been dead since
before the revolution” —of 1688. So
Partridge was driven out of the field, and
astrology disappeared with him.
It bobbed up again in England and
the United States a few years and
it has whirled up in Australia. Nearly
and some
of the Sunday sheets run Astrology
columns> and a morning paper (Labor)
p U yj s } ies an as trologer’s tips for horse-
races And astrologers advertise —in
blatant contempt of the police. At least
one of the fraternity has different desig-
nations, addresses and telephone num-
bers, and the marvels of his “science”
m ake a deeper impression upon a lady
when she pays two or more fees and
gets the same reading.
So in one matter this age is more
credulous than Swift’s, although it
can boast a multitude of real marvels
• 1 frarfnix
mfrigStors, mSnesCcai fly a. the
rate of 400 miles per hour and others
that speed on the ground at anything up
to 345 m.p.h.—of which Swift’s genera-
tion never even dreamed. In other re-
spects there is no great difference. Then,
as now, there were knaves and fools;
flats, fly-flats and flat-catchers; company
promoters and their mugs. It was the
time of the South Sea Bubble. One
merry jester floated a company to com-
mercialise a perpetual-motion plan.
Another came out with a prospectus
gated” when he bolted with the funds.
Still, we have had our South Sea
Bubbles on a small scale. The wildest
and silliest performances that convulsed
speculative England in 1720 were
matched during the Australian gold-share
boom of the early nineteen-thirties.
Claims as brazen as that of the perpetual-
motion man, projects as impudent as
that of the inventor of the design “here-
after to be promulgated ” gross ignor
ance—of geology as veil as geogiap )
—and grosser credulity marked the
search for Lasseter s lost reef,
l n the authorised version of that
“discovery,” written no doubt in all good
f a ith, it is asserted that “in 1916 the
west Australian Government sent out
severa i camel expeditions to locate Las-
seter ’ s ree f»_ t h e “reef” in which “the
]]ow stu ff was thick as plums in a
> ddj » l was in Westralia all that
in touch with the
and I can testify that it never did any
thing of the kind. I never heaid o
Lasseter in Westralia, although I was in


HER FINGER JOINTS
BEGAN TO SWELL
Perfectly Straight at 63
Thanks to Kruschen.
Nearly 20 years ago this woman was attacked
by severe rheumatism, and for months she
suffered considerable pain. Now 63, she tells
how Kruschen restored her to health, and
has kept her free from rheumatism all these
years :
“In 1918 an attack of ‘flu’ left me with
severe rheumatism, and I was in bed three
months. When I got up I could only hobble
about with difficulty and pain. My finger joints
were beginning to swell, and were very painful.
I was told that nothing could be done for the
swelling. A friend recommended me to try
Kruschen Salts, which I did with very satisfac-
tory results. To-day, at 63, my fingers are
perfectly straight, I am free from rheumatism,
and can do all my own housework.” —(Mrs.)
M.W.
Two of the ingredients of Kruschen have
the power of dissolving the needle-pointed
crystals of uric acid which settle in your joints,
causing them to swell, ache and inflame.
Other ingredients of Kruschen assist Nature
to flush out these dissolved crystals through the
natural channels.
A FAVOURITE
dsf
THE
No. 150
DEEP-
SEATED
KEMP-
STYEE
SADDLE,
£B7-
(MOUNTED)
Has combined
flap and skirt
sewn direct
to the seat,
thus giving the narrow-
est possible grip. Kemp
pads.
N.S.W. freight paid fen-
cash with order.
Write for 100-page Saddlery Catalog.
WALTHER jt STEVENSOM
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
tm
m
MADE FOR EACH OTHER
itifj
m
i
lade
The Gill
Razor are
can achieve p
and the Gillflsf
Urate units. They
used together. . . .
.The unerring precision of both the Gillette razor
and the Gillette blade is achieved by many intricate
and costly manufacturing processes. These two units
are made side by side in the one factory; under the
one strict supervision. That is why the two should
invariably be used together for really satisfactory
shaving.
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
BLUE GILLETTES: ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED BLADES 1/6 FOR 5
that State for 20 years, and all that time
worked on newspapers which featured
goldmining.
“Some of the foremost geologists in
Australia had recorded their belief that
through Centralia runs a continuation
of the famous Kalgoorlie ore belt; these
experienced scientists prophesied that
the next great goldfield would be found
in the country of Lasseter’s story.”
These eminent authorities are —wisely—•
unnamed, nor is any clue given to the
time or place of their recorded belief
and prediction or the form in which
they were preserved.
The year in which Lasseter “found the
reef” is also lost in the mists of fine
writing or something. It seems, however,
that he “found” it after he had “lost
himself” for the first time. “Afterwards
he got properly lost in the desert,” and
he lost himself for the last time, and his
life with it, when trying to find the
“reef” that he had already found twice.
“The reef,” with “the yellow stuff thick
as plums in a pudding... .lay away out
in Central Australia, near the West Aus-
tralian border, right on the desert
fringe.” Lasseter took from it “a bag
of golden specimens” and was “clutch-
ing” this when “an Afghan camel-driver
found him raving with thirst and carried
him to the surveying camp on the West
Australian Stock Route. Surveyor
Harding nursed him back to life ; then
suggested that they both return to the
reef, but the desert had put the fear of
death into Lasseter for the time being.”
“The surveying camp on the West
Australian Stock Route” ; and no year
given. But in these matters chronology
and topography are, of course, unimpor-
tant.
Three years later he and Harding went
out and re-located the reef. On returning
to Carnarvon they were dismayed to find
their watches one hour and 15 minutes be-
hind Carnarvon time. This meant, that if
their time had been incorrect when they
took bearings of the reef their location was
incorrect also.
It is strange that a surveyor should have
been iso careless or ignorant on the
score of time and “location.” Stranger
still that he should have decided to start
out from and return to an out-of-the-way
place like Carnarvon.
Carnarvon is a Westralian outport,
distributing centre for a north-west
pastoral district. From Carnarvon to
the border (let alone “away out in Cen-
tral Australia”) it is nearly 1100 miles,
and there is no railway. Even with
camels it would take two men the best
part of a year, in the most favorable
circumstances, to travel from Carnarvon
to Central Australia and back, and when
they got back it would be no use apply-
ing for a reward claim or anything of
the kind, for the Westralian Mines De-
partment would have no power to grant
one. Surveyor Harding’s account of this
amazing journey, on which a vast amount
of ground was covered uselessly and
perilously, would, if available, be one
of the curiosities of mining literature ;
but evidently it was never written.
“Harding died.”
And on the strength of such rubbish
expedition after expedition has gone out
in search of the “lost reef,” and the
probabilities are that trusting “inves-
tors” have, in the search, lost quarter
of a million of money. Land parties
having failed, dangerously, air parties
took up the unfinished task, the idea
being that the “reef” could be spotted
from up above. On one of these aerial
expeditions a Mines Department man
from Perth was taken along. His report
almost blistered the paper on which it
was written but it didn’t burn up the
ardor of Lasseter’s-“reef” “investors.”
They are sure that they will find the
“reef” some day.
Astrology and “lost reefs” and lot-
teries and s.p. betting! And just as the
astrologers sell zodiac signs, and dynamic
lodestones, and mystic spherical amulets,
the merchants of lotteries vend lucky
charms: four-leaved shamrocks and
rabbits’ feet. And for the s.p. punter
there are two-pound and five-pound
money-back specials and infallible sys-
tems galore.
The lottery craze and the s.p. craze
were curiously combined in the case of
the Queensland bank clerk who has just
been put away for five years. He won
a £5OO prize in the lottery, and in one
day he put £9BOO on 51 horses. When
he bolted he was £69,100 short of the
bank’s money.
One of the profoundest remarks of
the nineteenth century was made by
Robert Lowe, who represented Sydney in
the old colonial Legislative Council and
became Britain’s Chancellor' of the Ex-
chequer ; and he was bitterly denounced
for making it: “We must educate our
masters.” Are we educating our masters,
or those who will be our masters in
a few years? Isn’t there something want-
ing when our schools turn out so many
thousands of mugs who are such easy
marks for astrologers, tipsters, lottery
touts, share-hawkers, smut-vendors,
Hollywood press-agents, war-scare-
mongers, foreign fakers who call them-
selves wrestlers, and liars with holes in
the ground? Perhaps the something
wanting is a great free-library system.
THE FIRST AUSTRALIAN PRIZE FIGHT
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
/"| USTRALIAN settlement began
A"“| when prize-fighting in Britain was
I pretty well at the zenith of its
popularity, and there can be little
doubt that meetings under Prize-Ring
rules were popular and plentiful here
from the very earliest days.
The scrub behind Sydney Cove, Farm
Cove and Cockle Bay (Darling Harbor)
must often have staged hard-fought
bouts between marines and sailors and
convicts whilst N.S.W. was in its infancy,
but no records remain of any of them
untii Governor Macquarie’s time.
In 1814 a memorable and somewhat
terrific fight took place in Sydney be-
tween Charles Lifton and John Berringer.
It was a great day in little Sydney, and
while the fight was on the village in the
vallev of the Tank Stream was com-
pletely deserted. Soldiers of the gar-
rison, sailors from the ships in port,
merchants, civil servants, ticket-of-leave
men, women and children and dogs all
went up the valley to the Racecourse,
which was a large area of vacant land,
immediately to the south-eastward of the
town, where the first race-meeting had
been held in 1811.
Only recently Macquarie had dedicated
it in perpetuity as a public recreation
ground for the little capital, under the
name of Hyde Park. The few shops were
shut up, and even the public-houses, of
which there was an appalling abundance,
were deserted by customers and land-
lords alike.
It is more than probable that the con-
test had Macquarie’s official sanction, for
there was a condition attached to its
taking place which seems characteristic
of him. Before hostilities commenced
the fighters were required to run half a
mile, with a view, no doubt, towards
ensuring that neither of them would be
too dangerously “fresh” when he entered
the ring. But even with that the spec-
tators were given full value for the
trouble they took to attend.
The fight went 56 rounds. After two
hours of fearful, bare-knuckle slogging,
Berringer was declared the winner. Bet-
ting was high, but there is no record ol
the stakes put up for the fighters.
This was the beginning of prize-fighting
in Australia, and battles for large stakes
were common in the early days. On
May 28, 1827, Logan beat “Young”
Bailey at Parramatta. There was a
side-wager of £5OO on the match.
But the most celebrated fight of the
’twenties had taken place in 1824, and
made a most tremendous stir throughout
the old County of Cumberland. “Young”
Kable, scion of an old-established
Hawkesbury family, many of whose
tombstones are in St. John’s churchyard
at Parramatta and St. Matthew’s at
Windsor, fought an English professional
named Clark, knocking him out in 10
minutes.
How keenly his fellow-Cornstalks
cheered and backed their “Currency
Lad” against his “Sterling” opponent may
well be imagined. He was the first Aus-
tralian-born boxer to make a name for
himself.
' Nearly all the important fights during
the next 10 years took place at Parra-
matta or on the Hawkesbury, and,
although officially discountenanced and
regarded as breaches of the peace, were
usually winked at by the Bench of magis-
trates and the police.
The principal fighters were Kable,
Bailey, George Hough and Ned Chalker.
Whenever they happened to fight at
Sydney the scrubby country about the
sandhills behind the present Oxford-
street generally provided a site for the
contest. Invariably, they were weil
attended.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The First Prize of £3/3/- offered for this week’s Other Fellow’s Mmd Com-
petition has been awarded to a Victorian.
The winner will also be paid at A.J.A. rates, and so will every other contributor
whose matter appears on this page.
The competitions will run for six months. Every week there will be a first prize
of £3/3/-, in addition to A.J.A. rates —paid also to all competitors whose paragraphs
appear—and every three months there will be an additional prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it will be possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster.
White-collar Snobbery
One of the causes of the discontent
which exists among many young
people to-day is the idea implanted in
their minds by their elders that any
job which involves taking off one s
coat and mussing up one’s clothing
and face a little with sweat and grime
is not quite nice. Hence the number
of youngsters pushed into dead-end
white-collar jobs, where, in many
cases, their only real compensation
seems to be the privilege of sneering at
other and probably more useful folk
who earn their living in less genteel
ways.
It is only natural for parents to edu-
cate their children to the best of their
means and to try to make their lives
a bit easier than their own have been.
But the instilling of snobbery into the
minds of the youngsters is not one of
the means of so doing.
The greatest satisfaction in life
comes from doing to the best of one’s
ability the work for which one is most
suited, and a youth pushed into un-
congenial clerical work when Nature
equipped him with an instinct for
fiddling with motor engines or for
farming is only storing up unhappi-
ness for him in the future.
In a country like Australia, where
there is still a considerable amount of
pioneering to do, snobbery should
have no part, particularly such a futile,
petty variety as the white-collar type.
Any socially useful work well done is
worthy of praise. The mere wearing
of a white collar is an act which even
the most useless member of society
can do. — Walkagee (Vic.).
“Walkagee” is Mr. D. Prout, of 18
Duke-street, St. Kilda, Vic. To Mr.
Prout goes a cheque for the weekly
prize, £3 35., plus A.J.A. rates—in this
case 2sd. a line.
Holiday Excursions
Has any thought been given to the
man on a small salary who finds it
necessary to travel during his annual
holidays—especially the man with a
family? I think not.
Every year sees thousands who, unable
to avail themselves of the regular excur-
sions, find that their holiday budgets
are greatly embarrassed when called
upon to provide railway fares.
Couldn’t the railway departments grant
a concession, available to those appli-
cants who could show that they are in
receipt of a salary under a certain
amount and are proceeding on holidays,
of a holiday excursion ticket or a family-
holiday excursion ticket, the latter to
possess the greater benefits? Actually,
I should say, the railways would even-
tually benefit. — Spells J. (N.S.W.).
Cut Off the Fodder
What boards and commissions now
largely doing the work of government
in Australia feed on are taxes. It
is hard to say whether boards and com-
missions increase as a result of higher
taxation or vice versa, but it is certain
that, so long as Governments are sup-
plied by complacent electorates with
plenty of revenue, so long will they find
ways of spending it. And to make the
iob easy a new board is appointed.
The growing power of the bureaucrat
is a serious thing, at least to those who
value freedom and fairplay, but no Gov-
ernment will stop it. Only the taxpayer
can do it—by cutting down the supply
of money.
Australia faces one of two alternatives.
Either the taxpayers will demand a
scaling-down of taxes and a consequent
reduction of boards and commissions,
or the time will come when the cities
will be occupied by populations entirely
employed in the civil service, while
officers appointed to do so comb the
back country for the few taxpayers living
in outlawry there.— Chassa (N.S.W.).
Wheatgrowing in South Aus.
When Professor Perkins (former Direc-
tor of Agriculture in S.A.) retired he
gave a comprehensive report on wheat-
growing in his State, and mapped out
large areas where wheatgrowing should
be abandoned. He believed the mini-
mum return to enable the farmer to
carry on would be £2 per acre from at
least 200 acres. My own experience of
30 years’ wheatgrowing in S.A. con-
vinced me that a return of eight to ten
bags per acre would be necessary to
make the business attractive.
Government encouragement of wheat-
growing in the Bin. or 9in. rainfall of
n.-w. Vic., s.-w. N. S. Wales and large
areas of S.A. is sheer folly. Many
settlers in these areas are a splendid
type, but they are now too poor to get
out, too poor to travel or take a holiday,
and so overtasked that they have no time
for reading. They are encouraged to
struggle on when they get bounties, and
are deluded by so much talk about guar-
anteed prices into thinking that it is of
national importance that they should con-
tinue to grow their five or six bushels
per acre.
Premier Butler knows quite a lot about
wheatgrowing, having been through it
himself. His father, also Premier of
S.A. at one time and Treasurer for a
long period, was also a wheatgrower,
and his dismal outlook was notorious
The plain hard facts are that wheat-
growing in S.A. has always been subsi-
dised, and here are some of the ways it
is done:
(1) By capital sunk and lost. (2) By
capital that earns no interest. (3) By unpaid
labor of farmer’s family. (4) Underpaid
hired labor. (5) Creditors “scaled” (in
1930 assisted by the Government). (6)
Drought relief, remissions of Crown dues,
bounties. (7) Profits taken from other
sources.
The idea that, if prices are stabilised at
something or other, everything will be
lovely is pure bunkum. It would be
much more to the point if farmers who
were asked in 1929-30 to add their six
bushels per acre to the world’s top-heavy
wheat surplus were compensated for their
loss and told to try something else. The
most important thing to decide is not
so much what the price of wheat should
be, but where it should be grown. —Ex-
Wheatgrower (S.A.).
Teach Economics
In these days of social unrest and
demagogic agitation, when new isms rise
up and old ones are resurrected and kept
alive, it seems a great pity to me that the
elementary outlines of economics are not
taught in all primary schools. I know
of no finer way to dispose of the preju-
dice against banks and other institutions
than a liberal knowledge of the principles
of economics. Of course, to introduce
this important subject to all schools in
Australia when education is controlled
by so many conflicting authorities would
be difficult, and this is another argument
in favor of Commonwealth control of
schooling. A.L.Ps. would certainly op-
pose the measure, as such enlightenment
for the majority would render futile their
attacks on all “reservoirs of credit.” In-
significant Labor candidates would no
longer be able to rant about “Institooshuns
grinding the faces of the poor,” a check
would be placed on Communism, and
the ordinary citizen would be happy in
his knowledge of the evolutionary pro-
cess of society. —S. W. Clark (Q.).
The Turn of the Wheel
A correspondent of Sydney “Herald,”
from an observatory in Queensland
prophesied that rain would fall in N.S.W.
either on August 20 or September 1.
On August 19 the rain did start, and
soaked the catchment area.
The prophet, to whom I have noticed
no note of appreciation, was testing a
theory of cycles, and by mathematics
had arrived at the foregoing conclusion.
He has gained a convert.
In Kipling’s “Kim” the baker believed
in “the wheel of things.” It seems to
work out in the recurrence of history,
economics and even fashion. Another
sphere in which I expect to see it work
out is religion, leading thereby to a
period of revival and of social and moral
cleansing, which critics say is much
needed to-day.
My point of view is that, apart from
mathematics, without such cycles Nature
cannot balance —and Nature has never
failed to achieve balance. —B. B. (N.S.W.).
Crowding-out the Freelance
Why is it that of all occupations the
struggling freelance journalist meets the
strongest opposition from classes that
usually earn quite respectable incomes?
Clergymen, politicians, civil servants,
businessmen —all seem to rush to their
pens and compete in an already over-
crowded market.
In a few instances prosperous people
accept less than standard rates of pay-
ment —in one instance, at least, they have
offered to write for nothing in order to
achieve the “glory” of print! What
would these prosperous civil servants,
clergy, etc., think if the freelances in-
vaded their sacred domains and made it
impossible for the prosperous ones to live
in comfort or even in decency? It is a
good rule that one man should not
knowingly invade the field of another
man’s earning capacity, and I appeal to
these prosperous amateurs to give the
stragglers a chance to earn some sort of
living for their wives and children.—*
Hard Hit (N.S.W.).
A Mobile Permanent Army
Instead of adopting the Defence Min-
ister’s plan for increasing the militia per-
sonnel to 50,000, it might prove more
useful and economic for the Federal
Government to lay the foundation of a
mobile permanent army. At present our
standing army appears to consist of
several hundred Staff Corps officers, the
garrison staffs and a couple of thousand
warrant officers —many of the latter being
over age for actual fighting. Should an
invading force successfully land in Aus-
tralia our deffence would, no doubt, con-
sist of partly-trained militia, plus un-
trained additions working in co-operation
with the R.A.A.F. Several years’ ex-
perience as a militia n.c.o. prompts me
to state that six days’ home training and
six days’ camp each year hardly keep
our issue boots broken in. Certainly the
standard of training has increased dur-
ing the past year or so, particularly for
officers and n.c.os. It is, however, doubt-
ful if the increased efficiency compares
anywhere near favorably with the in-
creased costs per trainee during the same
period.
For an extra expenditure of £1,000,000
annually it should be practicable for Aus-
tralia to possess one permanent infantry
battalion of militia strength in each State.
Governments squander much more than
this amount every year on relief works
which, in the main, are destroying the
ambitions and ideals of many young Aus-
tralians. Two thousand five hundred
regular infantrymen would be a worth-
while, though small, trained nucleus
should a hurried mobilisation ever be
necessary.—C. F. Wordsworth (N.Q.).
Wanted: A National Outlook
Never in the history of the Common-
wealth has there been a greater need of
a national outlook than there is to-
day. With six States, each with its
own Government, regulations, railway
gauge and climatic conditions, the ten-
dency is towards another South America.
Already there is keen rivalry between
the States, and it is not uncommon to
hear it said of a person from another
State that he or she is “over here to get
one of our good jobs.” The Premier of
one State will boast of his surplus, and
will compare it with the deficit of an-
other State. Both States are Australian,
the. surplus is Australian and the deficit
is also national. . x . •
We own a broad continent, so let us
have a broad outlook. “Sydney’s slums
are worse than Melbourne’s” is an
example of petty spirit. Slums of any
kind are no credit to either. The worst
slum area in any State is Australia’s
worst slum area.
Any part of Australia is here from
Darwin to Davenport. Twenty years
ago when the whole world was staggered
by the amazing performances of Anzacs,
the world didn’t think of New South
Wales or Queensland or South Island or
Nelson; it thought of Australia. —W. H.
Webber (N.S.W.).
Australians tend to be parochial. As
The Bulletin often points out, far too
many of us think of our own town, State
or personal interests; far too few think
nationally.
One remedy seems obvious: let our
people, especially young people, see Aus-
tralia and discover not only its beauty
and variety but also the way of life and
particular problems of its scattered com-
munities. c How many city-dwellers have
ever visited a great station, ever seen
mustering, shearing or harvesting, all of
them far more interesting and spectacular
than many well-advertised tourist attrac-
tions? How many, even among regular
globetrotters, have seen Central Aus-
tralia, Darwin, Broome, the goldmines
and forests of the West? Cost, lack
of accommodation and travel facilities
are obstacles, but we can learn from
other countries, especially from Germany,
how to overcome such difficulties.
For generations young German “Wan-
dervogel” have journeyed, singly or in
bands, about Europe. Most of them are
poor; often they walk carrying ruck-
sacks, sleeping in haystacks, mountain
huts or village inns, lacking comfort
but gaining friendship and experience.
For a few pounds the galleries and
museums of Europe, its glories of archi-
tecture, art and nature are theirs. In
recent years their number has increased
enormously, and the assistance afforded
them by Governments is a revelation to
an Australian.
Surely Australian students, sports club
members and others could organise on
similar lines. North Queensland, Tas-
mania, the Australian Alps, the M.I.A.
and other irrigation areas, the vast in-
land and (to most of us) unknown North
and West should not be beyond their
reach. —J. O. (N.S.W.).
English-Speaking Union
Would it not be a step in the right
direction if the bonds between the peoples
of the British Commonwealth of Nations
and those of the United States of America
could be strengthened? The best method
(slow but sure) would seem to be not
so much by political speeches and ex-
change of official visits (though these are
necessary, too) as by individual members
of the public refraining from ill-advised
comments. Comments born of ignorance
and prejudice aimed at belittling the
characteristics of a people whose acquain-
tance with the average Australian citizen
seldom exceeds the somewhat overrated
types which figure so prominently (un-
fortunately for all concerned) in a large
percentage of talkies. The idea, admit-
tedly, would depend for its success on
the co-operation of both nations. —F.
Mac Donnell (N.S.W.).
Freedom of the Press
“The freedom of the press” is, like
“the liberty of the subject,” a catchy
slogan. All agree that papers should
be free to publish reasonable comment
on all questions that concern the public,
whether local, national or international.
But when such freedom is prostituted by
the publication of misleading statements
it becomes just as objectionable as
that brand of liberty of the subject
which claims that the subject should
have liberty to do as he likes, irrespec-
tive of the damage he may do to others.
Though the law provides redress for
defamation .when the individual is
traduced,/ there is no redress for
the defamation of a nation —not even
of the nation in which the offending
paper is published..
Readers have the right to. expect the
truth from the public press, no matter
what particular policy the individual
prints pursue or. what political partv
they support. The papers are supposed
to cater for the public, since they all
seek public support. Then when they
print contorted or directly false state-
ments they deceive their readers, and
often do a considerable amount of
harm, as it is a generally accepted fact
that, as our politics are at present con-
stituted, separate classes of readers
accept the statements of the particulai
papers they subscribe to as being on a
par with Holy Writ. —E. J. Gorman
(N.S.W.).


HOW JACK SEYMOUR CHANCED FROM A
PUNY WEAKLING TO A REAL HE-MAN
OUT OF MY WAY
SWIM WILL
\ OF GOOD
.YOU
SKINNY- i
WORLD
HA ! HA !
A
POOR ICKLE MAN ,
- DIDDUMS GET SO )
.TERRIBLY WET ? fr-VvJ
/ *
YOU BULLY,
ONE OF
jTHESE DAYS
(you'll be sorry)
HES A LOT BIGGER
AND STRONGER THAN
I AM, DORIS - WHAJ
CHANCE WOULD
HAVE AGAINST (\i
THE BIG BRUTE ?
I COULD HAVE CRIED
WITH SHAME
EVERYONE IN THE
CLUB SAW WHAT
HAPPENED - I'D NEVER]
DARE GO AGAIN
WHAT TIME
SHALL I CALL
FOR YOU
DORIS 7 THE
DANCE STARTS
AT 8 0 CLOCK
I'M SORRY JACK,
UNDER THE CIRCUMSTANCES
IT WOULD BE BETTER
F I DIDN'T SEE YOU
AGAIN !
r
J!
OH BOY - LOOK
AT THOSE RIPPLING
MUSCLES NOW-
BLESS THE DAY
I SENT FOR
BRITON'S FREE
BOOK - I FEEL
GREAT !
tv
V )/( A.
OUST LOOK AT THAT'
THERE'S THAT BIG FELLOW
’SHOWIN6 OFF AGAIN IN
OF DORIS AND THE"
CROWD - WELL NOW'
9Q[) ITS MY TURN !
■ V
W
/
<m
\
\y'
CONFOUND IT - I'M FED UP
TO THE NECK OF BEING CALLED
A SKINNY WEAKLING -
ALFRED J. BRITON SAYS
HE CAN GIVE ME A
REAL HE- MAN 80DYX*
-I'LL SEND FOR /%}A
HIS FREE -***
BOOK NOW <&&
I've WAITED A LONG
TIME FOR THIS - AND
NOW HERE IT IS
V
V
OH JACK, I'M
SO PROUD-YOU 1
ARE A REAL
MAN AFTER ALL]
LA
Itesm.
\ /j
/
:
W° MEN want He-men for their Husbands and Sweethearts; none of this chorus-
man stuff for the real girl. She wants to be proud of his physical make-up—
proud of his figure in a bathing suit. She knows that it’s the fellow that is full of
kick and vitality that gets ahead in this world. He’s got the physical backbone to
back up the mental decisions he makes. He’ll win out every time. This FREE
BOOK will show you how to be a man she’ll admire!
I BUILD STRONG, HANDSOME, HEALTHY BODIES!
PEOPLE call me the Muscle-maker. I make men’s bodies strong and healthy. My
list of over 38,500 wonderful successes includes doctors and lawyers, bookkeepers j
and clerks, grandfathers and grandsons, fat men and skinny men, weaklings and I
nervous wrecks. By a method of scientific body-building, I go all over your body,
strengthening your internal organs, broadening your shoulders, cutting off fat and generall'7
turning you inside out until you’re a healthy, handsome, fighting he-man any woman will
be proud of.
I will add one whole inch of live, flexible, steely muscle to each of your arms, and
two full inches of rippling muscular strength across your chest. Your legs will become
stnught and strong your head snap back ere:t, and large lumps of red-blooded muscle
wiU begin to stand out on your broadening shoulders. What a hit you are going to make
with that girl of yours! How proud and happy she will be!
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept. L.
107 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WHAT THIS AMAZING
BOOK TELLS YOU!
• How to Add Inches to Your Chest. • How to
Cultivate Personality. • How to Strengthen Your
Back. • How to Treble Your Strength. « How to
Get Great Strength. • How to Develop a Muscular
Body. « How to be Successful. • How to Attract
Triends. * How to do Feats of Strength. • How to
be Always Well. • How to Get
Endless Endurance. .
r
FREE BOOK COUPON /
ALFRED ,J. HKITON, DEPT. E.
107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N r .S.W.
Dear Mr. Briton,
, J want to , look , like this chap in a swim suit. Please
send me, under plain wrapper, your Free Book. “How
to Acquire Muscular Strength and Development.” This
obligates me in no way whatsoever.
NAME
ADDRESS
7/0/'3B.
ALFRED J. BRITON
107 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ds
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- f plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
address
C Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection of
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone.
Price 1/6
(Postage 2d. extra)
Obtainable
only
from
<y
0
O°L
&
fy^
«v
1\
y^ e
&
✓
#•'
v^‘
,•** . • * *
>4 ,c^
of \°
'^.Wo^ 0 '


Turkey for Dinner-
11l
iilSill!
WmM
-
m*
Wm
mxwse
mmmmm
r >
5;55
Is
mmm
/
*
x -:
i
i m
m
*
mmm
m
A
: 6*
as--! "
lut j ust same
MONEY BACK
GUARANTEE
TRIAL OFFER
m
So many nerve sufferers have
obtained immediate relief from
BIDOMAK that if you do not bene-
fit by taking the first bottle we will
refund your money within 1 4 days
of purchase on return of the nearly
empty bottle to Douglas Drug
Co., Goulburn & Pelican Streets,
Sydney. Thus, we guarantee you
positive relief or you pay nothing.
“I felt so terribly
depressed and weak
that I actually broke
into tears . .
I was in such a ratten state of nerves that
/ hated to talk to people. I’d just snap
their heads off. My nerves were all shot tc
pieces, and I felt so depressed and weak that
I would burst into tears for apparently no
reason at all.
/ couldn’t sleep at night, and I lost my
appetite completely.
When I had taken three bottles of
BIDOMAK the difference was marvellous.
I was a new being—l can eat anything
iow, and 1 sleep like Rip Van V/inkle.
Yours truly, ( Signed ) J. Haydon.
Nerves and most Constitutional Disorders are
caused by Mineral Starvation... Read these facts
In the midst of abundance, millions
of men, women and children are
STARVING. Not because they can-
not purchase food and despite the
fact that they eat heartily—three
square meals a day. Our normal
diet does not contain enough of cer-
tain vital mineral elements to re-
place the loss of these salts from the
system, caused by the worry, tear
and bustle of modern life.
This Mineral Starvation is the
cause of most nerve and constitu-
tional disorders.
All these troubles are caused by
Mineral Food Deficiencies.
LACK OF FERRUM CAUSES
Anaemia, Headaches, Weakness and
Lassitude,
LACK OF CALCIUM CAUSES - -
Stomach Troubles, Chilblains, Eczema.
LACK OF SODIUM CAUSES - - - -
Rheumatism, Kidney Trouble, Stomach
Trouble.
LACK OF POTASSIUM CALTSES
Heart Disorders, Acidosis, Constipation.
LACK OF PHOSPHORUS CAUSES
Insomnia, Brain Fag, Nervous Exhaus-
tion. Irritability.
w HOW TO OVERCOME
THESE TROUBLES
When you get enough of these minerals you
recover ir* a natural way from the troubles
caused by a deficiency of them.
After years of research a brilliant scientist
has perfected a way of correcting this mineral
deficiency by providing the necessary food
minerals in an easily assimilable, palatable
liquid form.
BIDOMAK is a natural mineral food, it con-
tains no dangerous drugs nor narcotics and
it tastes so nice you’ll like taking it.
AK IS A SCIENTIFIC
of vital mineral elements which contains
no harmful drugs, and which may be taken
freely by young and old. It contains fer-
rum, calcium, sodium, potassium, phos-
phates, glycerophosphates, and sucrose, as
well as other necessary elements. These
are the cell-foods which are vitally neces-
sary for the blood to build up and main-
tain the cells and tissues of the body by
activating and rejuvenating the cells—
which banish the infirmities due to nerves
and constitutional weaknesses. NEW VIM
and ENERGY: BIDOMAK restores vital
energy and gives back youthful enthusiasm
to those who have been ill. Tt makes old
arteries young again it tones up vital
organs which have become sluggish—it is
winning back for thousands the zest for
life, and thrill of popularity and the en-
thusiasm of wonderful health and good
spirits.
BIDOMAK creates new healthy nerve
cells, and provides a full supply of healthv
nerve fluid, at the same time removing
poisons and wastes from the system.
BIDOMAK creates a storage of energy
and nerve force—overcomes every run-
down condition, every disorder due to lack
of energy and drive.
i noA aoj oa tiim Mwwoaia si ssm
1 End MINERAL STARVATION by
adding; ferrum, ealcium, potassium,
sodium, phosphates, glycerophos-
phates and sucrose.
2. Give you a good appetite.
3 Bring sweet sleep to the weary
sleepless.
4 Strengthen nerves that are tired and
inflamed.
5. ltelieve stomach upsets and dyspepsia.
6. Build energy, “pep” and endurance.
7 Clear out body wastes from every cell
of the body by increasing the amount
of oxygen in the bloodstream,
c Create rich, red blood, new, healthy
' nerve cells and nerve fluid.
9 Make you feel well all over.
10. Taste so good you'll like taking it.
doctors recommend
all chemists
AND STORES
3'-
for a large
bottle
New
Zealand
3'6
'The'Tonic of the Century" is Bottled Minerals
FOR NERVES. BRAIN AND THAT DEPRESSED FEELING
SCIENTIFIC
CONTROL
Attached to the laboratories of the
Douglas Drug Company are three
fully qualified chemists and a
Doctor of Medicine who graduated
at the Universities of Edinburgh and
Glasgow.
