

Geniet dagelyks
/.
STERIG MAAL
Ajcdd
■I
tKe
W
tdv i° r
o**
&lfC< v
#
S ' 3H %'
Y&
THE
&
!
/•W/
te'%
SSKXrW* ■'*■*■
' -s-St-
WS. 5. 48.
In Large, Half and Quarter
size bottles at all hotels.
How often do you enjoy eating a
genuinely hearty meal? A meal free
from the anxiety of subsequent acute
dyspepsia! You should take Wolfe's
Schnapps regularly. This pure gin
spirit, distilled in Holland, will enable
you to enjoy hearty meals every day.
The unique medicinal properties
which it contains cleanse the kidneys,
purify the blood and tone up the whole
system. Start taking a glass of Wolfe's
Schnapps each day, and notice what a
zest you’ll find in eating. Get a bottle
to-day!
"As Good for Women as for Men.”
WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3022.
Wednesday, January 12, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be forwarded post free with
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
LOOK HOMEWARD—AUTHORS!
I have met only a few of our writers personally,
but from a study of their work it seems to me that
their mental processes must be something like this:
“The Australian scene is anew and unusual set-
ting for fiction. Overseas readers, and even local
readers, know very little about this country. Every-
thing is strange, fauna, geography, customs, people,
slang . . . everything. Anything we say, therefore, will
be regarded with suspicion and unbelief. Nothing
can be left to the readers’ imaginations. We must
explain and detail everything, assuming ignorance and
even hostility on their part. Further, to avoid all
possibility of doubt in their minds, we must describe
everything in terms and images with which the litera-
ture of other countries has already made them
familiar.”
That interesting experiment of Vance Palmer’s
Legend for Sanderson seems to me to be typical.
Palmer seems to expect a certain resistance from his
public and tries to wear this down by an avalanche
of description. It is, I think, this habit of the author,
as well as his other device of depicting background
indirectly by showing how its spirit, atmosphere or what
you will seeps into the consciousness of his characters,
that gives to Palmer’s books their brooding mono-
tone.
Consequently all Palmer’s fisherfolk —psycholo-
gically, anyway—bear little resemblance to the people
one meets around our fishing ports. Each and every
one of them is a supersensitive musing creature, a
sort of psychological emanation of the landscape and
background rather than an objectively described
human being.
How infinitely more effective are the same author’s
short stories, in which, debarred by lack of space from
explanations and exaggerated emphasis, the author
writes objectively with a minimum of musing, for the
reader to take or leave as he will!
A trouble with some of our writers is that they
have an entirely wrong opinion of the reader’s atti-
tude. Let a writer be hesitant, unsure of himself and
of the worthiness of his material, and the reader loses
interest, but if the reader senses that the author knows
what he is talking about and makes no apologies for
what he says half the battle is won.
Consider, for example, the stories of Ernest
Hemingway. Compared with some of our local
writers, Hemingway is an unsophisticated hobblede-
hoy. His larrikinish air of knowing all the barmen
and drinks of America, Cuba and the Continent, his
worship of gory athleticism and his pose of being a
highbrow trap-shooter and big-game fisherman are at
times really funny. But he makes no apology for
what he says. Because of the finality and decisiveness
in his manner, his works are remarkably successful
and convincing, even when they deal with remote,
little-known quarters of the world and are written in
clipped, unfamiliar slang. “Take it or leave it” is his
motto, as it is the motto of every confident writer.
What can be done by an intelligent acceptance
of the Australian scene and of “the words of the men
of whom he writes” was shown recently by Gavin S.
Casey in his story “Short-shift Saturday” in the
Christmas Bulletin. There, without any apologies,
overemphasis or skirmishing, you were presented with
a slab of fictionised (i.e., intensified) reality. And that
story would be as intelligible to overseas readers as
it was here
DENTON PROUT.
SOLILOQUIES OF A SENSITIVE SOUL.
As I Saw It, by Harry Tighe (Stockwell), is an
account of the soliloquies of one Chard Ellcombe,
“larger in mind than body,” imbued with “vivid sensi-
tiveness,” and possessing “a quiet dignity about him
which even scoffers respected.” “There was some-
thing in his personality that was vividly impressive and
not easily forgotten.”
IVfr. Ellcombe was Australian-born, but lived most
of his'life in England and on the Continong. He had
independent means, and occupied his time (when not
soliloquising) by writing books and plays. They were,
of course, very successful. On p. 49 is a reminiscence
of how he rebuffed a duchess. The sweeping success
of one of the plays is recorded p. 51. On p. 56
is a mention of his “Academy portrait.” On p. 65 he
laments that in this dreadful Australia (he had to
return here, one gathers, through some monetary
misfortune) “the cultured refinement of the intellect
is almost a poor outcast.” There is “no leisured class
of small means interested in art or philosophy which
is so prevalent in England.”
However, his exile had its brighter moments.
Visiting the Solomon Islands he had a heartening
chat with the Commissioner. They found an English
lord was a mutual friend.
These are the highlights of the book. The rest
is a flutter of nostalgic reminiscences, some quotations
from the “S. M. Herald” demonstrating the folly and
owdashusness of the Australian lower classes, and
ever and always a record of the brilliant observations
made by Mr. Ellcombe to Mr. Ellcombe.
“Tradition,” Chard once said, “is the foundation
of a nation. Without it, life is the mere shell of
what it should be. Tradition has built up England.
Will the destroyal of it cause that nation’s downfall?
It seems to me possible.”
He smiled. It had attractiveness in it to many
people.
The cover blurb says this is a work to stimulate
thought and leave the reader mentally enriched. It
stimulated some very violent thoughts in the mind of
at least one reader.
ROMANTIC AUSTRALIAN
HIGHWAYS.
Then and Now, by James Valentine (Angus and
Robertson), is a record of romantic travel along old
highways near Sydney by two moderns in a motor-
car —James, the ostensible author, who drives, and
Jane, his companion, who supplies the historic anec-
dote.
The first chapter, “Gentlemen, the Road!” a
spirited piece of writing, presents the general color
of bygone times, indicating the classes of people who
might have been seen along the old roads, their
probable errands, their costumes, and a description
of the extraordinarily varied types of conveyances in
which they travelled.
Follows a series of detailed tours through
Parramatta, Richmond, Windsor, Camden, Campbell-
town, Picton and other places whose names crop up
in early annals. There are descriptions as the car
runs; stories of heroism and statecraft; notes on
early-day domestic life ; halts for the inspection of
historic villages, homesteads, churches and coaching
inns ; anecdotes humorous and tragic, and recollec-
tions of historic figures from the Galloping Parson
and John Macarthur to Trotting Paddy, who carried
mail afoot, dodging the bushrangers.
It is a light-hearted book. James and Jane respect
historic truth but reserve the right to make facetious
comment as they go. Attractive features are the
illustrations of different types of old vehicles, used
as chapter headings, and the picture-maps of the
different tours adorned with quaint sketches of events.
PEDAGOGUE AND NATURALIST.
Unaffected modesty is the keynote of A. H. S.
Lucas, Scientist, His Own Story (Angus and Robert-
son), a slender volume which serves to contain all that
the distinguished pedagogue and naturalist thought
worth telling about himself.
Ten years at Wesley College, Melbourne, seven
at Newington, Sydney, and 25 at Sydney Grammar,
finishing as headmaster, he captured the respect and
affection of the swarm of young Australians who
passed through his hands. In spells between teaching
he followed up a marked gift, for natural history, and
at his death bequeathed to the Commonwealth a
classified collection of 5000 specimens of algae gathered
from all parts of the Australian coast.
His book is mainly an anecdotal record of friend-
ships, beginning with his boyhood days in Cornwall,
then Oxford, then Australia.
AMIET'S ESSAYS.
William A. Amiet, M.A., the Mackay barrister
who has contributed to the Australian shelf of essays
Literature by Languages, Starry Pages and A
Shakespeare or Two, has, as his titles indicate, a
Wellsian love of the panoramic sweep.
His latest book, Starry Ages (Angus and Robert-
son), is in the main a digest of recent astronomical
literature, with an occasional side glance at ancient
history, archasology or the atomic theory. His
independent knowledge of the matter dealt with in
each volume he refers to enables him to relate the
contents to its subject generally, and to other avenues
of scientific investigation. He discusses the relationship
of the atom to the universe ; investigates the innards of
a star; tells what is predicted to happen when the
moon, as will eventually occur, comes within range of
earth’s gravitational pull; describes the weird and
beautiful scene on a planet with two suns, each shed-
ding light of contrasting colors; speculates on
Lemuria, the submerged continent of the Pacific;
reviews scientific estimates of the world’s age, and its
probable future; and discusses the antiquity of man,
which he likens to a book of 500 pages in which the
last word represents the period of recorded history
and the last lettei the 1938 years since the birth of
Christ.
If Amiet has one quality more likeable than
another it is his comfortable acceptance of his
countrymen as readers. He doesn’t talk over their
heads to an audience postulated in some other part of
the world.
NEW FICTION.
Margaret Flint’s The Old Ashburn Place (Harrap)
displays an aspect’ of aristocratic democracy dearly
beloved of the American novelist —the independent
small farmer, the backbone of the country.
The Ashburns had been on their farm in Maine
for over a century. They were decent people, and
when drama came into their lives it came in a quiet
way. No matter what happened to them their work
went on, and no matter how they lapsed from it they
all had a wholesome respect for conventional good-
There were four sons and two daughters. The
early death of the mother and the premature ageing
of the father thrust responsibility all too soon on the
two elder boys, Morris and Charles. Morris married
Elsie, not from love but because, in a small com-
munity full of tongues, he found himself in a position
where it seemed the decent thing to do. She made
him a good wife and conformed to the Ashburn stan-
dard of respectability.
Then Marian Parks came home from college and
Morris and Charles both fell in love with her.
Marian married a young man called Ham, but the
affair, so nebulous on the surface, left its deep mark
on both the Ashburns. Elsie knew that her husband
no longer cared for her, and her slow, obstinate
affections became centred on Charles. Out of his
despair over Marian and Elsie’s silent importunity he
became her lover. Morris discovered them, but it was
the bond of brotherhood that held.
The impossible situation was resolved by Elsie’s
accidental death. The farm needed a mistress, so both
brothers, grown philosophical, decided to marry a
sensible wife. Morris beat Charles to her by a nose.
“Ain’t it hell?” asks Morris meekly. “Me and you
pick out the same woman every time.” “I never done
any picking,” Charles objects. “Seems so it’s just
been handed to me, and I could like it or lump it,”
That sums up Charles’s tragedy.
The book is better than a rough synopsis of the
story suggests. It is a picture of a society and an
attitude to life lovingly and faithfully drawn.
Thomas Bell’s All Brides Are Beautiful (Jarrolds)
is not so much a story as a dramatisation of daily life
in a section of the American working class during the
depression.
The plot does not develop, it marks tune on the
same spot. There is a close-up view of apartment-
house life in the Bronx, New York—its overcrowding,
its humor, its squalor, under a thin veneer of mechani-
cal civilisation.
The children have no playground but the street';
meals are bought at the delicatessen on the way home
from work. There is no privacy, no peace, no quiet.
Life is restless, hectic and starved. Its fruits are
quarrels, apathy or a vague hankering after revolution.
All this is pictured admirably down to the last detail
in lively if rather gritty prose.
In this atmosphere Peter and Susan Cummings
begin their married life full of hope. All brides are
beautiful until life begins to rub the gilt off their
gingerbread. Peter works in a machine shop, hopes
for a social Utopia and wants to be an artist. He
loses his job, finds that the only pictures he can sell
are obscene ones and, in the bitter experience of living
on Susan’s small wages as a bookseller’s assistant,
his social idealism peels away.
Their day-by-day experiences and those of their
neighbors and relations, who are all, under mass pres-
sure, enduring something similar, are recounted with
rather wearisome persistence. The book ends neither
in tragedy nor triumph. Everything is much as it was
at the beginning and is likely so to continue. There is
a vein of social comment, but the novel never becomes
militant; it slips and slides like the lives of its charac-
ters. It would be rather tedious if it were not for the
leading characters, who are genuinely likeable—
Susan notwithstanding the terrible persistence with
which she asks Peter if he still loves her. The book
ends with the marriage going strong even in the
midst of overwhelming ugliness. Susan manages to
remain beautiful in her husband’s eyes.
The Three Furies, by Alan Chester (Cassell),
has an Australian setting and looks like a first novel.
The plot is a good stiff mixture.
Michael Vance is a young surgeon with too
much money. His sweetheart, Anna, disgusted with
his idle habits, marries Lindsay Ottway. Michael
is at a chalet in the Victorian Alps working off his dis-
appointment ski-ing when the couple turn up, honey-
mooning. There is a bout of reciprocal lifesaving
between the males. Lindsay is seriously injured, and
Michael, with the best of intentions, bathes his wounds
with water from a bucket in which a poisoned rat is
afterwards found. For this lapse he is struck off the
medical register and incurs the hatred of the widowed
bride.
Michael goes to Westralia to forget his past in
honest labor as a miner. Here he incurs the enmity
of the sinister Dr. Jarrold (there is a robust horse-
whipping scene when the doctor asperses a lady’s
name), and meets Beverley, daughter of the town’s
leading citizen. Her goodness brings back his faith
in life, but Dr. Jarrold’s plot to kill him accidentally
results in the death of Beverley’s fiance, Dan.
Michael, besides being once more the guiltless
instrument of a rival’s destruction, finds himself
suspect. In an emergency he uses his now illicit
medical skill to save Beverley’s life —and this delivers
him into the hands of Jarrold. Arrested, he is held
up to the execration of the town, but Anna, hearing
of his peril, realises that her hatred is really an aspect
of love and rushes to his side. Rough, very rough,
justice is done and the ending is happy.
There is enough material here for a couple of
novels, and the story so fills the frame that there is
little room for atmosphere. A dab of democracy, a
peppering of niggers and a hint of great open spaces
is about all the author .can spare us.
The Canadian Mazo de la Roche seems to have
a weakness for serials. Having, apparently, completed
in six volumes a family saga, Chronicles of the White-
oak Family, she has now embarked on a miniature
saga of childhood.
The earliest adventures of Gillian and Diggory
were recounted in Beside a Norman Tower, and now
in The Very House (Macmillan) another year is added
to their history. The setting is in the English southern
counties and the story a mild and gentle one.
It should appeal to all those who take a romantic
view of childhood. The children are natural and
attractive, the book is seasoned with humor,
strengthened by the accurate observation and tran-
scription of many small episodes and nursery dramas,
and its tone is not' so much sentimental as tender.
Miss de la Roche has a bright and attractive style,
she never becomes didactic or psychological, nor does
she ever allow her story to stray out of its own cir-
cumscribed and enchanted world. The extreme social
correctness of thb children’s environment is a little
damping —they are such excessively nice children.
(Continued on page 8 .)


“TRUTH 'IN ADVERTISING”—AIways. ‘ “THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
HALF YEARLY ,% | IT"
GENUINE LYIALiHi
i !
am
r
-L
.
HI
iNIiS
’■: ■'•.';' :.■:j| : : :' ;'•; ::■:■ ■••:
.
' ~ ~
y ,
C*HS
S *fy
v-r
£t*gMV~C
awßgiga
C. > -'CM>-i^<
fcK>c
££V«*
L~V>'
*>**
«*>*>•
y-CJr
BSiiSl
6/6 All Wool Underwear
Natural soft summer-
weight shirts with short
sleeves or underpants to
ankle. Sizes 34in. to 44in.
Price, per garment
Sale Price
4 7 9
6/6
4/9
d
1/6 Athletic Singlets
Elastic ribbed knit in
our standard qualities.
Sizes 34in. to 42in.
Prfces: l/6, 1/11, 2/6
Sale Prices —
1/4, 1/9, 2/3
174l 7 4
5111 Men’s Work Shirts
5'6
In Striped Harvard
With 6in. double back.
Price 5/1 1
Sale Price 5/6
With 9in. double back.
Price 6/11
Sale Price . . . 6/6
With 9in. double back. Price 9/-
Sale Price 8/6
Khaki Drill With collar and pocket.
Price 6/6. Sale Price ... , . 5/11
Heavy weave. Price, 7/11. Sale Price, 7/6
Two military pockets. Price 8/11
Sale Price 8/6
Striped Scotch Twill, with neckbands.
Price 7/11. Sale Price 7/6
i
0.
w. i
I L
&m s ?
7'6 Men’s Pyjama Suits
Anthony Horderns* own make. Of full, generous
proportions. Striped Flannelette. Price .... 7/6
Sale Price 5/6
Striped Heavyweight Flannelette. Price . . 9/6. Sale Price . . 7/6
Striped Soft Suedette. Price 10/6. Sale Price 8/6
Striped “Hordura” Quality. Price .... 10/6. Sale Price .... 9/6
Striped Poplin, Summerweight. Price ... 8/6. Sale Price ... 6/6
Striped Cepea Serge. Price 13/6. Sale Price 12/6
5 X 6
3 3 White Cell. Underwear
Cool, White Mesh garments. Sizes
34in. to 44in. Shirts with short
sleeves, or trunk drawers with brace
loops. Price, per garment . . 3/3
Sale Price 2/9
2'9
\
/
r 'r
VS
: A
-
6/6 White Tennis Shirts
With collar and pocket. Sizes 14in. mmmm /
to. 19in. neck. ■
White Mercerised Twill. Price, 5/6 /
Sale Price 4/11 "m #
Better quality. Price 6/6 I
Sale Price 5/11 ■ 1
Best quality. Price 8/6
Sale Price 7/11
White Mercerised Drill.- Price 8/6
Sale Price . "7/11
White British Poplin. Price, 5/6. Sale Price, 4/11
Best make. Price 7/6. Sale Price .... 6/11
Natural Fuji Silk. Price .. 10/6. Sale Price .. 9/6
Heavyweight. Price .... 12/6. Sale Price 11/6
Double Double. Price .. 14/6. Sale Price .. 13/6
• Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street.
Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and
seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY
’Phone: Day or Night,
M 2401


Floating Mrs. Parsley Into a Company
LIMITED DEBILITY
BY HAROLD MERCER
ILLUSTRATED BY ARIA.
“ K I OBODY,” declared Mrs. Parsley, with some
I warmth, “is going to form me into a com-
I I pany ; not if I know it. They can talk about
trustees and deference shares and particles
of dissociation till they are black and blue in the face ;
but in the future I’ll stay as I am.”
“Has someone been trying to float you into a
company?” I asked.
Mrs. Parsley pounced on a word and abandoned
her pretence of “tidying up.”
“Float!” she exclaimed. “That was the very
word he used. Mr. Parsnap, the resembling villain
he is. A reg’lar sheep in wolf’s clothing if ever there
was one. And only this morning he came to me and
asked me to take shares in a company. There’s nerves
for you! As bold as one of them trocaderos in a
Spanish bullfight.
“Yet I thought Mr. Parsnap was rather a nice
gentleman when first he came here. Flat 10 he was,
and paid a deposit and said he’d fix up the rest at
the end of the week, which seemed all very business-
like to me, as he said he was a little short until he
saw his bankers, which he had to do on Friday.
Although he told me he was a Cosmopolitan—l always
respect a man’s religious convictions even if he is an
Anarchist or some other foreign sex —never for a
moment did I expect that he wasn’t the gentleman he
seemed to be. Which only shows that you can never
judge a book by the cover till the numbers are up, as
the Bible says.
“And there was that Mr. Parsnap, before the week
was up, talking of forming me into a company and
about drawing up perspectiveses and getting bores
of directors. I don’t know what came over me that
I should have listened to all his talk of Parsley Man-
sions, Limited, and limited debility and all the rest
of it. Only I expect that when he spoke about getting
rid of the landlord that had something to do with it.
<1 KA Y dear Mrs. Parsley,’ he says, ‘I want to show
y OU how to make money; you’ll never do
that by merely letting flats and paying away all the
money you make to the landlord. It’s a good business
you’ve got. The first thing you’ve got to do is to
get rid of the landlord.’
“ ‘You shock me, Mr. Parsnap,’ I says, ‘making
a preposition like that in cold blood. Live and let
live is my motter, and I’ll be no party to murdering
that poor old man, even if I don’t like him.’
“He only laughed. ‘I don’t mean that, Mrs.
Parsley. We’ll buy the landlord out, or perhaps give
him shares, build a new block of flats for you, and
put you on a real salary, besides the money you get
from shares.’
“ ‘But all that will take money, which is the root
of all evil, especially if you don’t have it,’ I says.
“ ‘Oh, money! ’ he says. ‘We’ll soon get the
money! It’s as easy as falling off a log!’
“The way he spoke you would think it was, too.
I couldn’t understand all he said, but he seemed to
know what it meant. I asked Mr. Slompack what
he thought of it.
“ ‘You want to be careful, Mrs. Parsley,’ he says.
‘Some of these people’d rob you of your birthmark.’
“That startled me, I can tell you, for I didn’t
even know that Mr. Slompack knew I had a birth-
mark. Humsoever I put it down to some of that
Hairy Percy’s flage he was so fond of.
“I could have
wished that Mr.
Slompack was
there when the
troubles came in
their battle-lions.
He had had to go
away on holidays;
and I’m sure if it
hadn’t been for
that Mr. Rogers
who was Number
23 I don’t know
what would have
happened. A nice,
quiet, unassuming
man he was. I
expect he was a
missionary of some
kind because he
went out late at
night, and he told
me that his job was a sinny cure. That explained why
he could be at home so much.
“He looked prosperous, and I knew he was reli-
gious from the way he said ‘God blast it’ when he
jambed his finger, instead of merely ‘Blast it,’ as some
men do. He said his father had been wild, although
late in life he joined the church ; but it had been a
lesson to him and he had determined always to walk
in the paths of riotousness, which was very proper
and as it should be.
“But Mr. Rogers only came in later when that
Parsnap was going round seeing which of the tenants
would buy shares. You see, in spite of what Mr.
Slompack said, that Mr. Parsnap had a way with him.
“ ‘l’ve put you in for ten thousand one pound
B class shares fully paid up,’ he says. ‘You’re a rich
woman, Mrs. Parsley! Of course, any money you may
have you would like to invest in more shares you can
put in. You get in on the ground floor.’
“ ‘Mr. Parsnap,’ I says, ‘l’m going to keep my
flat on the first floor, jest above the stairs, whatever
happens.’
“He laughed and says I could have a flat where
I liked, which I should say I could, seeing it was my
own place. He was full of talk like that which I
didn’t like. But it seemed all right about him making
all that money for me, so I let that pass.
“IT was only when he didn’t pay his rent that I
* began to be worried. I told him about it.
“ ‘Oh, but, Mrs. Parsley,’ he says, ‘I think we can
let that pass. What I owe now I really owe to the
company; and as the company will owe me money
for my services as secretary we can digest that later.
You get your ten thousand pounds, you know!’
“It seemed queer to me that a man who talked
about all that money being as easy as falling off a
log shouldn’t pay his rent punctual; but if he was
going to get all the money it didn’t matter much.
Especially as he knew a lot of bankers and solicitors,
because he put their names in them draughts he wrote
on the papers. He said I was to be one of the bores
of directors, which- I didn’t like him putting it like
that, and a man he knew, Sir Richard Boosey, was to
be another. It seemed to me rather fine to have a
Sir there; but not when I saw him.
“ ‘l’m afraid you’re disappointed in my friend
Sir Richard, Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr. Parsnap. ‘He’s
not much to look at, and as a matter of fact he’s rather
hard up; but a name like that looks well on the bores
of directors. Sir Richard will be useful to me, selling
shares. He belongs to a good family. I was
thinking of bringing Sir Richard to stay here.’
“ ‘As long as he pays his rent,’ I says. ‘He
may be a knight, but if he doesn’t pay his rent
he’s not respectable.’
“ ‘Oh, well, Mrs. Parsley,’ he says, ‘charge
him rent if you like. I will guarantee it. We
could let him have that little back room for ten
shillings, couldn’t we?’
“ ‘Mr. Parsnap,’ I says, ‘if one of them
dukes came to me on his bended knees and
asked me to let him have that room for ten shillings
a week, I wouldn’t do it; no, not even if he wore his
garter and said “Honey swore” to me.’
“Anyway, Sir Richard, which wasn’t anything to
look at and was worse to drink, came to stay. He
was one of the bones of distension between me and
Mr. Parsnap, though I was getting sick of him going
on as if he owned the place and not paying his rent;
no, nor Sir Richard’s either; and me not seeing
nothing of all that money he talked about. But Sir
Richard was really a Sir though he might not look it;
his letters came addressed that way.
“But it beats the band when the landlord, that
we was going to git rid of, comes and wants to know
what it’s all about. That Mr. Parsnap had been to
him about coming in on the ground floor, as he put it,
and being one of the bores of directors. Some of the
lodgers were worried, too.
“ ‘What’s this here, Mrs. Parsley?’ asks Mr. Rogers.
‘Are you passing us over as goodwill?’
“ ‘l’m being formed into a company of limited
debility,’ I says, not wanting to show me iggerance.
‘We’re going to build a new building with every model
convenience.’
“ ‘So Mr. Parsnap has been telling me,’ he says.
‘lt seems a good idea. I may take a parcel of shares.’
i< J FOUND Mr. Parsnap with his plausible explana-
* tions and his this and that, doing just as he liked, as
if he owned the house ; and that limited debility still
as far off as ever. But at last he reached the last
straw that shows the way the wind is blowing.
“ ‘Mr. Parsnap,’ I says, ‘this cannot go on no
further. How dare you send a nemo to my tenants
telling them to pay their rent to you?’
“ ‘As secretary for the company, Mrs. Parsley,’
he says, as naffable as never. ‘The company has now
taken over!’
“ ‘Only over my dead body, Mr. Parsnap,’ I says
hotly; and I daresay I says a lot of other things.
‘This place is mine, and I’m not going to have anyone
coming in like a thief with a knight to steal my rent
from me. If he is a knight,’ I says.
“ ‘Everything is quite in order, Mrs. Parsley,’ he
says.
“ ‘We’ll see about that,’ I says. ‘l’ve been to all
the tenants to tell them to take no notice of that
nemo you had the cheek to send them. And now, Mr.
Parsnap, with your Parsley Mansions and your general
debility, you had better get out. You owe too much
rent as it is—you and your precious knight.’
“ ‘You can’t talk to me like that, Mrs. Parsley.
You’ve got to understand your position,’ he says. He
wasn’t naffable any more. ‘You are just a servant
of the company. You signed an agreement to sell
your interest.’
“You could have knocked me down with that
last feather to fly with. When that sheep in wolf’s
clothing had got me to sign the document, of course I
didn’t know that that was what I was doing.
“ ‘You’re a cheat, Mr. Parsnap,’ I says. ‘There
isn’t any Parsley Mansions yet, which you told me you
were going to build ; all you have done is to live rent
free and borrowin’ money for the registration fees’—
which he had done, saying the company would return
it. ‘Company or no company, you’re going to go,’
I says.
“ ‘You’d better consult a lawyer, Mrs. Parsley.
I’m ready to go with you,’ he says, real nasty-like.
“It seemed rather fine to have a Sir there; but
not when I saw him"


£155 for Stories.
The Bulletin wants short stories for its fiction
section, and Cinesound Productions, Ltd.,
wants stories suitable for the screen.
“The Bulletin” offers
First Prize £3O
Second £l5
Third £5
Special Prize Brief Story £5
Cinesound offers for
Best Screen Story £lOO
It is possible for one story to win in both
sections. In addition to the prizes, all entries
published will be paid for at Bulletin rates.
Entries must not exceed 6500 words; 1500
words is the limit in the Brief Story section.
Entries must be original, and hitherto unpub-
lished.
Scenarios are NOT wanted. Cinesound will
attend to that.
Closing date is January 31, 1938. But any
entry considered to have a chance will be paid
for and published as it comes to hand.
Entries to be addressed:
“Short Story Competition,”
C/o “The Bulletin,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Any further particulars may be had from The Bulletin.
“And I found out he was right. It seemed to
me from what people told me that it was a reg’lar
mess-up. Mr. Brand, who knew all about the law,
having been fined several times for s.p. betting, said
that apparently I was ruined. I had parted with my
goodwill, and I’d got myself into a colder sack, as
he put it.
“ ‘l’m afraid you’re in a mess, Mrs. Parsley,’ Mr.
Rogers told me. ‘But I’m going to see what I can do
for you. I’ve told your Mr. Parsnap that I might
take some shares. Don’t let him know I intend to
help you.’
“Such a nice man Mr. Rogers was!
he went to sleep in my big chair. My heart felt sick
when I saw Mr. Rogers going through the papers that
Mr. Parsnap showed him, and nodding and saying
everything looked all right.
“ ‘There’s one thing,’ he says. ‘Mrs. Parsley, I
think, doesn’t want this to go any further. She would
sooner get out of it and go on as she was going
before.’
“ ‘Oh, Mrs. Parsley is thoroughly satisfied,’ began
Mr. Parsnap.
“ ‘You speak for yourself, Mr. Parsnap,’ I says.
‘l’ve been robbed like a chicken in the nest.’
“ ‘Yes; that’s what it appears to me,’ says Mr.
Rogers, quiet-like. ‘Mrs. Parsley has been robbed.
Come to a show-down, Parsnap! When you started
this you probably only thought you could get an
excuse for not paying your rent. You know very
well you can’t get this company going.’
“That Parsnap was taken by surprise. He blustered
like the angry wind that shows its temper to the
shorn lamb ; but you could see Mr. Rogers had his
measure.
“ ‘lf Mrs. Parsley wants to drop this company,’
says Parsnap, ‘she’s got to pay me for my loss of time.
I hold the documents and I’ll fight unless I get a
square deal.’
“ ‘All right, Mrs. Parsley will pay you two pounds
ten, and you hand over all the papers,’ says Mr.
Rogers.
“Mr. Parsnap laughed.
“ ‘What sort of a mug do you think I am, Rogers?’
he says. ‘I want fifty pounds.’
“It was a dingdong argyment, but Mr. Rogers
got them to leave the room, though Sir Richard took
a lot of waking up, while he asked me how much
money I could pay. It seemed to me pretty hot that
I should have to pay anything for my own place.
“ ‘lt’s unfortunate, Mrs. Parsley, but it’s the only
way to get rid of this Parsnap man. You’ve only got
seventeen pounds odd here? Well, I’ll see what I
can do.’
“And very finely he acted, too ; although that
Parsnap wouldn’t take less, he said, than twenty-five
pounds after Mr. Rogers had begun by offering him
ten pounds.
“ ‘l’ll give you my cheque straight away for
twenty pounds ; Mrs. Parsley can settle with me later,’
says Rogers. ‘And you’re lucky. You’ve been living
on this for weeks.’
44 T CAN tell you I was glad to get rid of them, even
* at that, and be shot of the limited debility. ‘You
keep that,’ says Mr. Rogers, handing me what he
called the quitter he had got that Parsnap to sign,
and all the other papers he had made him pass over.
‘Burn all these others. I’ll take this money ; and you
can put the balance against my rent.’
“Mr. Rogers had to go away during the night;
I found a note on his table when I went to clean his
room to say he’d got an unexpected call. That Par-
snap came in in a great state. It seemed that them
banks, had been at it again, making the cheque dis-
honorable.
“ ‘No account! ’ I says. ‘As if twenty pounds is no
account! It might be to them banks, but it’s not to
me, anyway.’
“He called Mr. Rogers a double-crosser, but I
wasn’t going to listen to him dispersing a real nice old
gentleman like Mr. Rogers just because those cheating
banks made his cheque dishonorable. After telling
him that if he wasn’t out of the place by midday and
his precious knight with him I’d have their things
thrown out, I slammed the door in his face.
“The nerve of that Parsnap! He says he still
thinks I owe him twenty pounds ; but he’s willing to
let sleeping dogs be bygones. And he has the nerve
to come back here with his getting in on the ground
floor to get me to take shares in another company
he has.
“But I’ve had enough of that limited debility. If
anyone forms me into a company again or gets me
to have anything to do with one, it will be time for
me to make my last will and detestament.”
FLOSSIE SEEKS A MATE
BY Z.F. WEBB.
“I went round right away telling the tenants not
to take any notice of that nemo. Some of them had ;
and some paid me ; but some wouldn’t pay at all
until they knew who they had to give the money to.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr. Parsnap, ‘if you’ll be
sensible we can get matters straightened out. Mr.
Rogers has signed an application for five hundred
shares, and he’s going to pay his cheque when he’s
quite satisfied that everything is right. He’s a nice
simple old gentleman, but he’s got money ; and I’ve
invited him to become one of the directors. We’ll
have a meeting of the bores in your flat to-night. You
must see that it’s to your interests not to make
trouble.’
4 4 K / R. PARSNAP looked as if he thought every-
thing was going his own way. There was
just the four of us, and Sir Richard didn’t really
count, because it was plain he had been drinking and
IT really is rather thrilling to be a musical comedy
star ; to lie in bed, the morning after the show,
and read the reports of the critics: “The brilliant
acting of Flossie Fookes” ; “Miss Fookes sang with
all her usual charm and verve.”
I’d lie back and roll the notices off my tongue
as if I were tasting champagne. But, all the same,
I didn’t want to hang on until I had to have the lines
massaged from my face and the kick rubbed into my
limbs. I decided that I must cash in on my fortune
while the going was good. The successful musical
comedy star, leaving the stage with a blare of trumpets
and a flash of newspaper headlines, appealed to me
as a splendid finish to a brilliant career.
I spent many anxious hours trying to make up
my mind as to a suitable haven for the rest of my
life, and I finally fixed my choice upon a station life.
I could visualise myself going to take charge of a
lovely home with all mod. cons. And I’d give the
most gorgeous parties to the local aristocracy so that
I’d have all the women green with envy.
Of course, there would be a husband. I’d choose
a homely one as a foil to my own looks. You know
what I mean —a plain face but a rich
pocket! “Mr. Longacres and his
lovely young wife, who was formerly
Miss Flossie Fookes, the musical
comedy star!” And gradually the
press notices would drop the allusion
to the stage. “Mrs. Longacres, of
Longacres station, accompanied by
her husband!” You see the idea?
So, while I played with my usual
vivacity, I kept my eye and ear open
for the cue to take the part of the
squatter’s lady.
1 got the call sooner than I expected. The leading
* man was having a birthday or a divorce or some-
thing. Anyhow, he was throwing a party. He wasn’t
a bad sort; he could say the most amusing things
about the audience while he was supposed to be
whispering sweet nothings in my ear. So, with a
gay smile that hid my aching feet, so to say, I stood
beside him to receive the guests.
I thought there was never going to be an end to
them. However, the last guest finally made his bow.
And my heart bowed in response, for I had found
my man.
“Ah, Bill Plowright! You managed to get down,”
chortled the leading man. “Miss Fookes, meet old
Bill Plowright, from his station near Echuca.”
I knew from the start that Bill was exactly what
I had been looking for. With his rugged countenance,
his brick-red complexion and big horny hands, he was
the spirit of the Great Outback. I could tell that
he was no armchair squatter but a real he-man who
would work with his men. It almost made me wish
I could cook and scrub and take my place with the
maids at the homestead.
“Are you staying long?” I inquired.
“I’m down for three weeks,” said Bill.
I smiled to myself. Three weeks was ample
time for Cupid to do his job.
“Station life must be frightfully interesting,” I
said.
“Oh, yes!” said Bill. “But let’s forget it while
I’m on holiday. What are you doing over the week-
end? We might take a run along the beach to-morrow
afternoon.”
“That would be awfully nice,” I said. “After
the stuffy theatre, one longs for the fresh, clean air.”
When the party drew to a close it seemed the
natural thing for Bill to see me home.
“I’ll call early,” he said. “We can stop for a bite
of lunch on the way.”
I had visions of a meal at a swanky hotel on the
beach road, but I didn’t forget my part of the simple
village maiden.
“I’ll bring a hamper with me,” I said, “and we’ll
picnic on the beach.”
“That will be great,” Bill said. “I enjoy a meal
in the open.”
I could imagine him having his midday meal in
one of the far paddocks, with his horse and his dog
for company.
O ILL’S holiday was a happy time for us both. He
was really a most attentive admirer, and it added
spice to the situation that the leading man became
quite jealous. His kisses got so natural that Bill’s
glare from the stalls was plainly visible. One evening
after the leading man had been particularly demon-
strative Bill was unusually silent on the way home.
“You know,” he finally said, “the stage isn’t really
the place for a girl like you.”
“I know,” I said, in a sweet, small voice.
“What you need,” said Bill, “is a home of your
own.” *
He turned to me in a masterful manner. “Don’t
you?”
“It’s what I’ve always wanted,” I said.
Bill threw out his chest like the hero about to
deliver the Mark Antony oration. “Flossie,” he said,
“will you be my wife?”
Just like that. It reminded me of the plays we
used to take around the small towns in the days when
I never knew whether I was going to be Willie or
Little Eva.
“You need someone to look after you,” Bill said.
“And I have a lonely life at the station. It would be
grand to go in to the stationmaster’s house and find a
wife there waiting with my tea.”
“The stationmaster’s house!” I gasped.
Bill looked surprised. “Yes. I’ve been a long
while on the railways, and now I’m a stationmaster,
with a house just waiting for a mistress.”
“I’m sorry, Bill,” I said, “but I don’t care for
you that way. You’re just a good friend.”
Then I went inside and signed a contract for
another year. But it’s sad that a simple-hearted girl
can be so easily deceived.


A Feeling Sketch
THE BUFFERS
BY DON EDWARDS
DRAWING BY SHELLEY.
JIM was anxious to be off. As soon as the coal
hurtled down into the last truck, and he heard the
foreman’s shout of “Take her away!” he sent the
line of a dozen trucks creaking slowly ahead.
Near the road he pulled on the lanyard and the
little engine emitted a piercing, steamy shriek of warn-
ing. Then he heard a shout, and he eased the train
to a clanking stop. He swore vehemently as he saw
Craik running from the company's office towards the
train. Things were bad enough without having the
fellow standing there in front of him.
“Come back here in the cab!” he shouted, as a
matter of form. “It’s safer!”
Craik waved his hand as he climbed on to the
brake platform in front of the first truck, and shouted
back laughingly, “It’s less dusty here, Jim. Let her go! ”
Jim smiled grimly and sent the trucks slowly
forward across the road. Craik was boss, so he could
please himself. Probably he thought that everyone
was noticing him as the train rattled down the side
of the street. Probably he imagined them as saying,
“There goes Lester Craik, the mine manager, home
for lunch.”
Jim sent the train ahead with a jerk that made
it protest noisily as it commenced to run down the
long street. Some day Craik would fall off if he
wasn’t careful.
The trucks ahead commenced to catch up the
dust of the road and sweep it back into the cab. It
would be better coming back up the long hill with the
empties, for then the engine would be ahead of the
dust and the trucks.
The narrow line ran beside the shining black
roadway. On one side was the harbor, fringed with
tall pines, on the other were the houses and shops
of the town. As the engine pushed its rattling trucks
noisily down the long slope, Jim waved his hand to
people he knew as they stood at the doors of the
shops or under the balcony of the hotel.
He enjoyed his work, driving his train with its
load of coal between the mine and the wharf, coax-
ing it back up the hill again with the empties. If it
hadn’t been for Craik he would have been perfectly
happy. It was bad enough to have the worrying
thoughts always in his mind, without Craik making
the trip with him a couple of times a day. It was
almost as if the fellow was deliberately taunting him,
standing there on the front truck, grinning and waving
to the townsfolk.
Probably most of the townspeople knew as much
about it as he did himself. Perhaps they were talking
about it even now.
AHEAD Jim could see the house, set well back
from the street. He always sounded the whistle
to bring Daphne and the kid out to the front. Some-
times they didn’t come out to wave to him, and he
would feel disappointed. Occasionally on the trip
back she would bring the boy out to him and he would
take him into the cab and send the engine along for
a few yards. But he realised bitterly that on this trip
there would be no need to sound the whistle, for this
was one of the trips she never missed.
Viciously he grasped the throttle and drove the
swaying train ahead, as if anxious to pass the house
as quickly as possible. On the verandah he saw
Daphne. She was holding Frank’s hand. No running
out of the front door at the last minute this time to
wave hurriedly at him and then dash back inside
almost before he had passed.
A hot anger mounted in him as he saw Craik
wave to her and saw her smile. She hardly seemed
to glance at him. He merely stared at her, but Frank
shouted at him so that the words “Daddy, daddy!”
came to him above the clanking noise; immedi-
ately his sullen anger dropped off him, and reaching
for the lanyard he blew the whistle in quick notes
that reflected his sudden happiness.
The train clattered past, and his happiness left
him as abruptly as it had come, for his wife was still
staring after the train, and Craik had swung about
to wave back to her. He drove the train along with
a jerk that forced Craik to cling on with both hands.
Grimly he grinned as Craik jokingly let go with one
hand and clenched his fist at him in mock anger.
Some day it might not be such a joke as Craik
thought. He glanced back to see Frank sitting astride
the gate so as to look down the street, and the sight of
the boy drove away all his bitter feelings.
The line of trucks ahead curved sinuously around
the bend at the end of the street and straightened up
on the flat. He increased the speed to gain pace for
the run up the long timbered ramp to the top of the
loading bins. He forgot all about Craik and Daphne
now, and kept his mind on his job. He couldn’t
afford to be careless. Certainly there were buffers
at the end, but he was forty feet above the ground,
and those buffers were none too strong. He leant
forward slightly, poised in nervous readiness as the
train clattered along the platform. Suddenly its speed
decreased, and slowly, protestingly, it groaned to a stop
a few inches from the big beams that formed the buffers.
He heard Craik saying “You’re getting too care-
ful, Jim. You’ve six inches to spare here.”
“Nothing like being careful,” he shouted back
over the trucks. “There’s a big drop over the end,
and those buffers are pretty old.”
Craik leapt off the truck, and as he made for
the ladder called out: “Well, the men start on the
new buffers in a few days, Jim. When they’re finished
it won’t matter if you hit them.”
He watched Craik climb on to the ladder. When
his head disappeared below the platform Jim left the
cab and walked forward to the buffers. Leaning on
them, he looked straight down to the ground below
where Craik was stepping over the new beams towards
the path that led around the harbor’s edge to his
home.
The thought that Craik’s words had put into his
mind frightened him, but it persisted. It was no
good trying to be logical, for every time he thought
of his wife and Craik he felt he wanted to hurt some-
one. Now, suddenly Craik had tossed him this idea,
almost casually.
He felt the buffers, and looked down to the timber
below. Pushing against them, he felt them move
easily. He only had to send the train on a few yards,
just make one mistake, and the first few trucks would
fall over the edge, break their couplings and crash in
a twisted, splintered heap. No one on them would
have a possible chance of escape. Just one mistake.
And in .a few days the new buffers would be up.
ALL that day the thought ran in his mind, especially
each time he drove the trucks along the top of the
platform and halted them a few inches from the buffers.
At night it was no better. A rising wind that
howled gustily about the house wakened him several
times and made him acutely aware of his wife sleeping
beside him. He could hear the waves crashing on the
rocks and Frank’s deep breathing from the next room.
Whatever happened, he had the boy. Frank
wanted to drive a coal train like his dad when he
grew up, but he would see to it that he did something
better than that. His thoughts wandered away from
Craik and Daphne and went drowsily with his son
further into the future, from success to success, till
he dropped into a deep sleep.
In the morning a gale was blowing, and a rough
sea was sending big swells into the little harbor. Craik
ran out as usual just before lunch and jumped on
the leading truck.
“A wild day!” he shouted.
Jim drove the train carefully across the road,
then sent it noisily down the street. The sight of
Craik still roused his anger, but now he felt confi-
dent of his power to gain happiness through his son.
Nearing the house he blew the whistle, but there
was no sign of his wife and son. That meant Daphne
would be down at the wharf. He smiled grimly, and
wondered whether she
thought she deceived him
with her paltry excuses
about getting exercise or
enjoying the fresh air. She
would get enough fresh air
this morning, he thought as
a gust swept through the
pines and almost rocked the
train. Huge seas were
pounding against the break-
water. He peered across the
flat towards the base of the
loading platform. There
was Daphne, sure enough,
waiting near the foot of the
ladder where she could
meet Craik. But where was
Frank?
His eyes swept around the edge of the little
harbor to the end of the breakwater in search of his
son. Suddenly he saw him, and a terrible fear gripped
him, and seemed to paralyse him. The boy, a tiny
figure against the big boulders, was making his way
towards the end of the breakwater to watch the great
waves. Already light spray was dashing about him.
Jim threw off his feeling of impotence and
stopped the train suddenly at the foot of the ramp
with a screeching jolt that almost threw Craik off
the truck. He leapt from the cab and started to run
towards the breakwater, calling to the boy. If any-
thing happened to Frank it would be his wife’s fault.
He would never forgive her for this. So taken up
with Craik that she couldn’t even guard her son,
couldn’t keep him out of danger.
“Frankie, Frank!” he shouted, sobbing as he
ran, but the boy scrambled on over the wet boulders.
His breath came in gasps. He was only about
thirty yards from the boy now, but suddenly a great
wave hit the rocks, and a wall of spray burst between
him and his son. When it cleared the boy had gone.
He stopped in terror, and as he started to run again
Craik dashed past him and leapt into the water.
Jim watched him swim towards the boy. He
grew calmer. If Frank could be saved Craik would
rescue him, but he had to help. He started to loosen
his boots, but someone touched his shoulder and he
looked up to see his wife beside him.
“You can help more from here, Jim,” she said.
“You can hardly swim.”
Together they stood and watched Craik’s fight
with the waves. He had the boy now, but seemed
unable to do anything against the seas, even though
he was only a few yards from the rocks. Suddenly
a wave tossed him ashore, almost before Jim had
realised that he had reached Frank. Craik picked the
boy up and scrambled up the rough side of the break-
water.
JIM realised that his son was safe, but suddenly he
seemed to be incapable of movement. He stood
there while Craik set the boy down on the concrete
roadway. He watched his wife run to them. He
wanted to scold his wife and son. Then he wanted to
hold his son, and kiss him, and realise fully the joy
of having him, but he could only stand there as an
onlooker at the scene before him.
They seemed to have forgotten him. Frank was
too dazed to notice him, and Craik and Daphne saw
only the boy who was between them. His son was
safe, but somehow Jim could not appreciate the fact
fully. Something seemed to have happened to him,
but he coufdn’t quite interpret it. His son was safe,
and he should have been wonderfully happy and
grateful to Craik, but he wasn’t.
He tried to shake off the feeling, but after a
few steps towards Frank he stopped. His wife was
on one side of the boy talking to him, Craik was on
the other, his arm about the boy, his face against
the boy’s face. Jim still had the feeling that some-
thing terrible had happened to him. He stared in-
tently from his wife to Craik, trying to drag from
them the full significance of what he felt.
His eyes went back to Craik’s face and to the
face of his son. Suddenly he knew why he seemed
to be an outsider, why they had ignored him; and
the knowledge made him sick with fear. It was as
if the reaction had caused them to lose all control
for a few seconds and reveal the truth to him. He
was a fool not to have seen it before.
He walked away unnoticed towards the train,
and as he walked his gloomy hopelessness was thrust
out by a bitter anger. They called to him as he
climbed into the cab of the engine, but he did not
turn. He heard Frank calling “Daddy, daddy!” but
he fought back his quick impulse to go to the boy.
Angrily he drove the train up the incline, and laughed
harshly as he stopped it so that the first truck gently
touched the rotten buffers and made them quiver.


S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date June 6, 1938.
Jt2o©
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
No entry having been considered
worthy of the Prize last year the
amount goes on to this year’s award,
making the total £2OO. Details can
be had on application to “The
Bulletin, 252 George St., Sydney.
It’s a Funny Business, But —
AIN'T LOVE
GRAND!
BY H. Shirley
DRAWING BY LOCK.
THE first indication I had that-Spike was in love
was when he demanded a headguard.
“Don’t be silly,”-I said. “You ain’t Joe
Louis.”
Spike had won a few fights, but we weren’t coinin’
enough to go in for luxuries. He insisted.
“What’s the idea, anyway?” I growled.
Spike looked out of the gym door an’ grinned.
“There’s the idea, boss, cornin’ along th’ passage.”
An eighty-five pound parcel of flesh an’ bone, all
nicely»done up in frills an’ things, and a mop on top
like an outcrop o’ dandelions, stepped- in without
knocking an’ asked for Mr. Morgan. Mr. Morgan! }
“Not so bad,” I told him after I’d sliooed ‘ her
out o’ the gym so th’ boys could get ; on 'with their
work. “Figure trim, light on th’ feet; might' build up
to a middleweight. But” —I warned him —“don’t for-
get you’re a fighter. Business before pleasure, an’ all
that.”
“This ain’t pleasure, boss. It’s serious,” said
Spike,
From then on it was serious—to me. Spike
started cutting down training. Willin’ to skip an’
shadow box an’ do a lot o’ roadwork, but went dead
off ring yakka. Howled if a boy clocked him, even
when he had his precious guard protectin’ most of
his jib!
I didn’t like the look o’ things at all. There was
a string o’ six productive boxers in th’ stable, but
Spike was the major part o’ my meal-ticket. Up an
cornin’, too, an’ I had visions o’ bringin’ him near
the top.
It was more serious the night Spike sat himself
in his corner to shape up against a hefty young light-
heavy named Robb at the Criterion stadium. Robb
was expected to give .him a good fight, but the stable
had confidence in Spike coming out ahead on points
at the o’ ten rounds, if it went that far.
It didn’t. The first stanza looked all right, with
both o’ them puttin’ a bit o’ spirit into their feelin’-
out, but in the second. Spike ran into a half-armi jolt
which sent his head back with a click. Nothing really-
damagin’, but a nice, steadyin' wallop which 1 thought
at the- time would do him good. But when he came
back to the corner, at the bell he was scowling and
tenderly rubbin’ his cheek, - d r ;
“Got a mirror; boss?” he asked. -
“What th’ hell do you. think you dre—a matinee
idol?” I shot back at him. •
“How’s my cheek? Is it busted?” * .
“Busted nothin’—just grazed. Forget about it.
Go in an’ fight—an’ look out for that right.”
And that was all Spike did—look out for Robb’s
right. He dodged an’ covered an’ hung on. Robb,
gainin’ confidence, chased him all over the ring. But
he couldn’t do no damage ; Spike got right behind his
gloves an’ elbows an’ stayed there. - - -
What I said—l threatened to murder him if the
fight went wrong—an’ what the ref. said an’ what the
crowd said to Spike made not a bit of difference. In
the fifth he was disqualified for not tryin’. An’ when
I saw the crowd tearin’ up the seats to sling at him
I joined in with the bucket.
That’s how we parted.
A FTER that the lovesick cow dropped out of the
** game. From time to time, though, one or other
of the boys brought word of him. I heard of him
working for an s.p. bookie; then I was told he was
drivin’ a truck.
Some time later I ran across Spike manhandling
sacks of flour on a railway truck. He gave me a
sheepish grin.
Now I’d always had a soft spot for Spike. It
was me who brought him along, an’ for our last
coupla years together he’d returned good divvies. £
might even have persevered with him after his silly
showin’ against Robb but for the way the papers
roasted me. That hurt my professional pride, but I’d
calmed down by now.
“Hullo,” I replied to his grin. “How’re you
feelin’?”
“Fine as ever, boss.”
He looked it. Hard and burly, his eyes clear.
“An’ that sheilah?”
“Nothin’ doin’. I’m off sheilahs.”
I laughed. “Till the next”
“For the rest o’ me life, boss!”
“Got the dump, eh?” I crowed.
Spike dived among his floursacks an’ didn’t reply,
so I called him off the truck an’ had a talk with him.
He meant what he said about sheilahs. The fever was
right out of his system.
The next mornin’ I had him back in the gym,
and within a fortnight I had him in fightin’ trim.
Meanwhile, I had to think out a line for the news-
papers—about Spike stagin’ a comeback after under-
goin’ a major operation to his skull. Made it look
as if a splintered cranial bone was responsible for his
queer actions in that last apology for a fight. Stories
like “Trepanned Boxer’s Return to Ring ” “Surgeon’s
Knife Puts Spike Morgan Right” began to adorn the
sportin’pages. ’ " _ ( -
I don!t think the writin’ blokes believed them,
but it all looked, nice in print. And on the strength
of the .publicity, and after they had seen a toughwork-
,out„ the-stadium people were persuaded to give Spike
another, chance. -
They matched him with a rangy, hard-hittin’
guy called Berry, whose signed-up opponent had
dropped out through -illness. Berry ,had won six or
eight fights in a row by the knock-’em-out route. Our
man was all right. , -
“A win’ll put me back where I was, won’t it,
boss?” he said.
DERRY was favorite at the ringside, and I was
L able to get all the twos I could afford to cover.
Most of the reg’lars wanted to see Spike in action
first, but I knew how good he was.
He looked good as he stood, calmlike, under the
lights while the ref. said a few kind words. Berry,
though, was twitchety, kept glancin’ around the house
an’ scratchin’ his hairy legs with his gloves.
“Look at Berry, boss,” said the boy who was
helpin’ me in Spike’s corner. “ ’E’s right off! ”
Somethin’ was wrong, all right. He clodhopped
through that first round like a semi-draught splashin’
over a soggy ploughed field. Just plodded ; no life
in him at all. His ring skill kept him out of difficul-
ties, but, all the same, Spike landed hefty smacks
to his chin an’ body whenever he let fly. It was Spike’s
round by the distance between Sydney an’ Melbourne.
“How’m I cornin’, boss?” he grinned as he
dropped into the corner seat, his breathing as steady
as the G.P.O. clock banging out the hour.
“It’s easy money, Spike,” I told him. “Don’t
open out on him yet; there’s plenty o’ time.”
Berry’s lack of go had me puzzled. But he was
worse in the second. Just blocked an’ dodged an’
half-heartedly swung. How that slow-movin’ galoot
ever won six or eight fights in a row had me beat.
Spike, keepin’ to orders, held himself in and went on
steadily collectin’ points.
“It’s in the bag, boss,” said the towel-flapper next
to me. . .
.4
“Too right, son. This is a night I’ll always
remember.”
“Can’t get th’ strong o’ that guy, though,” said
the second. “I’ve seen him, fight after fight, wade
into ’em.”
Spike came back to his corner with a bit of a
swagger.
“Look,” he said as he slumped back for a
breather. “Berry’s buckin’ up. He’s found a cobber.”
Berry was turning round in his corner an’ wavin’
to someone among the ringsiders.
“You can mix it a bit this go, Spike,” I told
him; “but you’re still on the chain. Just consolidate
your lead, like. P’raps that bloke’ll brighten up a
bit now.”
An’ did that bloke brighten up? He just walked
up to Spike, clipped him on the side of th’ jaw with
th’ left an’ hooked him hard to the stomach with th’
right. An’ before Spike could double up with pain
an’, surprise he took a beautiful left uppercut on th’
point.
‘ ‘ NT ICE foxy bit o’ work,” I sneered when Berry’s
1 handler came round to our room to collect the
fifty I’d had on the side.
“Foxy y’self!” he yaps back. “Berry would have
had your punk out in th’ first round if his girl’d been
there. That’s what had him worried —thought she was
jazzing with one o’ them beefy lasslin’ importations.
When she turned up at the end of the second he got
back into his stride. Berry’s always like that. Ain’t
love grand!”
Ain’t it! And if any o’ you have a yen for Spike
Morgan you’ll find him lumpin' flour an’ things—
back on th’ waterfront! •


L. A. G. Strong turns momentarily to providing
youngsters’ fare in The Fifth of November (Dent),
juvenile historical fiction competently written and well
illustrated.... Daffy-Down-Dilly (Ward, Lock), Con-
stance Mackness’s fifth novel for young Australians,
has Daffy left with a lively family of friends while
her parents are on missionary work in New Guinea,
an older girl to provide a love interest once removed
and, in the interests of boy readers, a lad with a flair
for such impromptu ejaculations as “My gumnuts
and goannas!”
Liber Melburniensis, by J. Beacham Kiddle
(Robertson and Mullens), is a history of Melbourne
Church of England Grammar Schoool which makes
a new record for this sort of publication by devoting
522 pp. to brief biographies of old pupils and 65 pp.
to sports records The History of the Diocese of
Goulburn, by Ransome T. Wyatt (Edgar Bragg and
Sons), is the product, as a foreword by Bishop Burg-
mann testifies, of “painstaking care and tireless
research,” and it covers Anglican Church matters in
the district from 1920 to the end of 1937. Some
excellent black-and-white drawings by the author
illustrate the volume.
In Without Prejudice (Hale), Reginald Vander-
bilt’s widow tells the story of her life with especial
reference to the legal proceedings, instigated by her
own mother, which resulted in Mrs. Vanderbilt losing
the guardianship of her child Gloria, heiress to a good
slice of the Vanderbilt fortune. Mrs. Vanderbilt was
left very little, and now earns her living as a costumier
in New York, much happier than when under the
shadow of the Vanderbilt millions. When in Europe,
after losing her husband, she became engaged to
Prince Hohenlohe, but the affair was broken off for
the sake of Gloria. Among Mrs. Vanderbilt’s asso-
ciates at that period were the Duke of Windsor (then
Prince of Wales), King Alfonso of Spain and Lady
Milford-Haven, and a New York Court, considering
the guardianship case, was not complimentary to
them. Without Prejudice is well written, but between
the lines lies much of the other side of the case against
Mrs. Vanderbilt.
Until it is almost too late it is difficult to see what
C. Day Lewis is getting at in his new novel, Starting
Point (Cape ; Angus and Robertson).
He takes four young men, close friends, who
graduated from Oxford at the time of the general
strike and portrays the significant incidents in the
lives of each until the present day.
Theo, a novelist, the victim of his pleasure-loving
mother’s negligent cruelty in childhood, ends by shoot-
ing her. John, who was inspired by the spectacle of
the strike with yearnings to reform society, finds his
hands tied by family responsibility. Henry devotes
himself to social service, but his world topples, and
he goes into a monastery. Anthony, a school-teacher,
emerges as hero and departs to Spain to redeem
such is the inference—the thwarted lives of others.
Lewis has a delicate understanding of life and
ability to give vitality to the details of his story; but
the artificial plan of the. book and its didacticism
spread a chill through the last part. It is like paying
to see a show and being fobbed off with a sermon
in place of the third act.
ROUNDABOUT
Montague Show.
For weeks past there had been blossoming in
advertisements and spreading over the face of square-
acre hoardings such pulse-demoralising lines as:
‘‘See a scintillating coruscation that benights its
predecessors.”
‘‘Sauce piquant for caliphs, shahs, moguls,
maharajahs.”
“A bevy of bacchantes with tantalising cupidy.”
‘‘Seventeen sirens who perform the Can Can.”
“Bewitching aphrodites, with je ne sais quoi.”
Three of the duskiest proposed.
As if that lot and much more on a similarly high
poetic note were not enough to completely pulverise
people as removed as we are from harem standards
of living, there were the respective “Telegraph” and
“S. M. Herald” versions of another line to confuse our
confusion. The “D.T.” ad. had it:
“A rara avis of extravaganzas that would enrap-
ture Bluebeard.”
Whether that line disturbed “Granny’s” moral or
historical sense can only be a matter of conjecture.
At all events, her version read:
‘‘Seventeen Sirens who perform the Can Can with
a Cupidity to Tantalise a Bluebird.”
If you should want to know what performing
the Can Can with a “Cupidity,” or, alternatively, a
“cupidy,” means, we can soon put that right in
advance.
Whether the immediate purpose be to enrapture
Bluebeard or tantalise a Bluebird, it’s a matter of
leaping up into the air in short skirts and frillies and
coming down whop on whatever part of you would
be nearest the floor if you’d stretched your legs out
horizontally fore and aft in mid-air and left the rest
to force of gravity.
Black suspenders!
Try it down in the cowyard. You will surprise
the cows, at least.
Anyway, attracted by these dosages of effulgent
poetical burley, we joined in the bun-rush and took
our seat in the Mayfair stalls.
Naturally, though it
was a night on which
you could have broiled
an emu tender in the frigi-
daire, we were there early,
and so was everybody else,
except the show, which,
to our impatient expectation, seemed unfeelingly
late.
No doubt we’d never have noticed that if we’d
had the sense to come dressed as an aphrodite. As
it was, what with Mr. Mares in a sweltering mood, the
advertised nature of the show now in our imagination
sizzling up behind the curtain, and the theatre abso-
lutely crammed with healthily perspiring fellow-
humans, in no time the Murrumbidgee had sprung
from its sources in the right and left collarbone ranges
and was flowing freely bootwards.
So far we weren’t so much awash that we
couldn’t see the programme pictures of two or three
evident aphrodites, or bacchantes, or they might have
been sirens, photographed hiding, in a manner of
speaking, behind coyly held bunches of ostrich
feathers.
Also, we were able to read such romantic infor-
mation as that at Samoa one of the young ladies of
the show so shook the inhabitants that no less than
three of the duskiest of them, one a chief of the
Nuuuli village, proposed to her, bedevilled, bewitched
and befoozled by the color of her hair.
We also read that the company had brought with
it 2000 costumes, and, speculating on who’d have
the job of carrying the suitcase, we read on to learn
that the costumes, insured for £lO,OOO, were brought
out in the ship’s cold-storage—which seemed a deli-
cate way of putting it.
We were shortly
to discover that these
same costumes were
of a sufficiency to
make us completely
ditch our idea about
the suitcase, and won-
der instead whether
it was two, or three,
liners that gave them
cold-storage accom-
modation.
They spread from
enough for aphro-
dites to ample for
prima donnas, struck
fashion notes from the
Attired in a small piece of
shark-net.
crinoline period to the night after to-morrow, dazzled
the view with enough gold to fill all the teeth in
Harlem, and went mounting up into Spanish headwear
as big as full-blown spinnakers.
Alas for the more enthusiastic opinion we may
have formed of these matters, by the time the curtain
accidentally went up, revealing the audience to the
startled gaze of stage-lolling aphrodites, bacchantes,
etc., who flurried forthwith into the wings like
cockatoos sighting Dad on the warpath—by this
time Mr. Mares was so giving us the works that
our Murrumbidgee had turned itself into a Murray!
Our boots were now awash and spilling over ;
the back of the lady in front was a fine flowing Yarra
at the very least; and the gentleman beside us was
steaming from both ears and nostrils and panting
like a bulldog.
Farther afield the collar of the orchestra con-
ductor was noticeably turning it in, the gardenia
perched over a left ear in the second row had been
cooked brown, and vapor was beginning to rise as
from the hot springs of Rotorua.
Nearer home the melting of studs and snapping
of braces from the moisture, the bursting of bootlaces
and the surreptitious gropings on all sides in search-
ings for the worst, the noise of warm drops splashing
on boiled-shirt fronts and the wash-house obbligato
of handkerchiefs and socks being wrung out —these
and other like matters were putting us to the test.
Frankly, we were unequal to it.
When the curtain
officially went up, and
out came the bac-
chantes and aphrodites
wearing black sus-
penders, we were al-
ready in such a par-
boiled condition that
our bailiff couldn’t
have picked us in a
windowful of crayfish.
Can Can.
In such a state, in fact, that instead of either
wholeheartedly enjoying or critically assessing what was
no doubt a delightful exhibition, in every meaning of
the word, we ashamedly confess to the horrible
thought that if ever we happened to get into the shah
or mogul class, and ran to a private bevy of
bacchantes, and they came into the royal presence on
a night like this dressed in black suspenders, we’d
suspend the lot of them above the palace gates with-
out favor or mercy.
No competent critic would have a thought like
that. He’d assess the grace of the young ladies’
dancing, the sparkle of their smiling, pretty faces,
the uniformity or otherwise of their black-stockinged
legs and the perkiness of their Frenchy little lids.
Yes, a slice above the human weaknesses of
people like us, befogged, as we become, by our petty
personal feelings, your competent critic would sit there
like a Red Indian squaw in the torture season and
assess at their true worth the cleverness and industry
of these bright-eyed aphrodites.
As for us —black suspenders!
It was no better —indeed, it was worse —when
Mr. George Doonan, the famous London comedian,
came on. If we’d had the stuff of critics in us we’d
have listened intently to his no doubt edifying disser-
tations on aspects of obstetrics and other bodily
functionings. We have no doubt whatever that this
was the very coruscation of. wit. And what was our
wretched response?
It was to sit there thinking about slabs of ice, and
alternately with envy of people at that moment lying
out on wet beaches in the altogether less than Mr.
Spooner forbids.
So it went on. Progressively melting and jilting,
our desperate thought when a young lady presently
came on attired in a small piece of shark-net was,
why not whale-net
on a night like this?
As for when all
these people, separ-
ately or collectively,
done up as cowboys
or Spaniards, aphro-
dites or duchesses, be-
gan to cavort, leap,
whirl, Catherine-
wheel and Can Can,
or even when they
just came massing on
to a stage that looked
as if it still wouldn’t
have held them with
comfort if it had been
ten times as big—
well, we just soaked
Of ice and wet beaches.
there, trying more and more faintly to concentrate
on the show, but unequal to tearing our thoughts
away from the North Pole, where for the rest of the
evening we were bemusedly happy to remain, given
up for lost and with nothing in sight except a ship-
load of iced beer.


mm®
m
mm
iPP:
lilt
mm
m
i'V ; ' % i
S'lvS?
V :
s:«Pl!
ini
m
■itii§§
ipljipi
lillll
ill
fill
.
Ml
■MI
: j
I
i
*
esi
—Coloseptic overcomes acidity,
activates nutrition, dehydrates
the excess moisture weight,
breaks up the fatty acids,
sweeps the intestines clean of
all heavy fermenting residues
and other acid products and
passes them smoothly out of the
system. It also activates the
dehydrating action of the other
vital eliminative organs—the
kidneys, pores of the skin and
respiratory apparatus.
Coloseptic is the one natural, safe
way to permanent weight control.
It helps the body to extract the
flesh-building minerals and vitamins
from your daily food. It acts to
overcome the cause of overweight
—excess fat, and unwanted fat.
FREE LIBERA L SAMPLE
OF 'COLOSEPTIC . . .
LOSE UGLY
FAT-thi,
new Scientific,
SAFE WAY...
... .“ACID CONDITIONS IN INTESTINAL TRACT
(SELF-POISONING) IS REAL cause of the deposit
of adipose tissue" — Dr. 0. McClaskey, New York.
COLOSEPTIC —the scientific way to re-
duce unwanted fat and create natural
slimness.
Self-poisoning (autoxima) overthrows the
body's alkaline reserve and develops acid
conditions which impair the normal functions
of the body. Instead of the body eliminating the fatty
acids (which result from digestion) in a natural way,
these fatty acids are absorbed into the blood stream
with other waste residues. Nutrition is impeded and
water fat is allowed to accumulate in the system
causing deposits of fatty tissue, thus increasing the
weight, and developing many unpleasant symptoms
such as bloating, indigestion, palpitation, constipa-
tion, acidity and fullness.
WAS 10 s ** 6 ' bs *
NOW 9s*. 3lbs.
Dec . 23, 1936.
l-r/u!
better in I»« alt J* / they had
I'lluW before*! '^’/S
S® "H “ r•» -*■
c » i ° sc,, “ c -M iM j-m
bs. and ip* be f ore
th r„ g ius t have
to etf ect
MAIL COUPON
FOR A FREE SAMPLE . . .
Learn more about this vital subject. Mail the coupon for a free
sample of COLOSEPTIC ’ to-day, and you will receive a book
telling you all about this scientific way to lose fat.
Learn how you are unknowingly developing an acid
condition that gives rise to fatty deposits, lowers your
vitality, and makes you miss the best in life.
Don’t delay mail the coupon NOW.
AT ALL CHEMISTS: INDIVIDUAL SIZE , 2/9 . . . ECONOMY SIZE, S/6
If unobtainable locally write to C oloseptic (Aust.) Ltd., 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
CoioseptidjlU
' 'A: ACIOIfY BUILDS f! k A I.TH
&
CP
o v
A PREDECESSOR OF JACK CARROLL
Fred Kay is reported to have said, in
effect, to Jack Carroll: “You’re a better
man than I was, Gunga Din.” It is an
interesting tribute to Carroll’s worth as
a boxer, though very few old-timers will
agree with it. Kay had greater speed
than was vouchsafed to Carroll and at
least equal power of punch. He
flourished at a time when boxing form
was streets ahead of what it is to-day,
and beat at least half a dozen scrappers
who were superior to any of those whom
Carroll has been called upon to meet.
Kay, though born in Victoria, learned
all his boxing in Westralia where, with
Mick Dooley, Bill Doherty and other
accomplished tutors available, a liberal
education in the art of self-defence was
to be had in those days. His first
notable fight was in some respects his
greatest. Just out of the novice class,
he was matched with the American Mil-
burn Saylor, who had knocked out
Hughie Mehegan and Herb McCoy, the
two best lightweights in Australia, and
had gone through several English welter-
KAY AWAITS THE SIGNAL.
weights then in the Commonwealth,
among, them the champion, Tom
McCormick.
Kay boxed Saylor at Melbourne on
May 17, 1914, and 11,000 people urged
him on. A tall, wiry, lithe fellow, he had
a 2in.-longer reach than Saylor and his
curious style puzzled that warrior. He
advanced with the right extended and
looked as though he would cross with the
left. Instead of that, he poked the right
out a bit further and kept on pushing it
till it collided with Saylor’s chin and
roused that young man to great energy.
Kay scored a majority of points in that
first round, and went to his corner to the
accompaniment of cheers that blew most
of the nervousness out of him.
After that Saylor found himself up
against a serious proposition. Kay
danced round like a will-o’-the-wisp or a
Pindaree or one of those Parthians who
scattered on horseback, shooting arrows
backwards; and in between he smote.
Like Saylor, he smote from all angles.
Fists fell from aloft on the Yankee,
wallops flew up from the floor and
caught him, and bangs came from the
horizon or the deep sea.
But a right on the side of the head
sent Kay down for three seconds. He
bounded up, but a drive over the heart
floored him for eight seconds in a desert
of silence. He got up again and went
on boxing. Saylor tried to 'use his
“rabbit-killer,” but the Australian was
too tall and too agile for such a punch
to land.
When the tenth round started, Saylor
bounded across the ring and got heavily
home with both fists. Kay literally
pitched himself into the air, fell and
rolled over, apparently as limp as a rag.
As the count proceeded there was a vast
silence. Saylor and everyone in the
huge crowd believed that Kay was out.
But at “eight” he sprang up, and, walk-
ing over to the astonished American,
gave him left and right on the jaw.
Neither blow put Saylor down, but to-
gether they broke his confidence. He
suddenly felt like a man whose cheque
was no good.
Kay began to use his left effectively.
In the thirteenth round, he took another
eight seconds on the canvas, but, rising,
he went in and mixed things so vim-
fully that the Yankee backed away. In
the sixteenth, Kay got all over the Ameri-
can, who spent the round in rapid retreat.
In the seventeenth, the retreat became a
rout, and Kay, following fast and faster,
knocked Saylor off his feet.
When the twentieth began, the agonised
crowd begged Kay to stand off, as he
was far ahead on points. He disregarded
the advice, went in and mixed it again.
When the gong sounded, he was awarded
the only possible decision. Then the
welkin split.
When Sydney apostles and hot-gos-
pellers of the Game heard of what had
happened in Melbourne, they wondered
whether something had gone amiss with
the mighty Saylor. But when the pair
got together again at Sydney on the night
of July 26, 1914, the scales dropped from
their eyes and the truth was revealed and
made plain to them.
Saylor was a better fighter, a harder
hitter and many other things ; but he
never had a hope, because, compared
with Kay, he was too slow. He was like
a rooster chasing a kangaroo. He landed
only half a dozen punches during the
whole performance. Kay just got out of
the way. Sometimes he walked out of it.
Sometimes he danced in front of Saylor.
Sometimes he just bent his body so as
not to obstruct the swing of Saylor’s
fists when that gentleman threw them
round in a state of irritation and excite-
ment. Sometimes he was simply not
there.
At first it seemed an exhibition of
politeness. Saylor went cruising round
the ring, hitting the atmosphere, bash-
SAYLOR COULDN’T REACH HIM.
ing the ropes fiercely, hurling wallops at
nothing in particular. Kay looked at
him from behind or from up in the air
or from any old place except the front.
In the first 10 rounds, Kay hit Saylor
repeatedly, sometimes with his right and
sometimes with his left. He never hit
very hard, but he did it frequently and
piled up a vast margin of points. That
made it imperative for the hostile force
to score a knockout in order to win, and
he had as much chance of knocking Kay
out as he had of biffing the hinder parts
of a southerly buster. On the other hand,
Kay demonstrated that he could hit
Saylor when and how he pleased.
Saylor lost his temper, and small
wonder. He was full to the chin of war-
like intention. For 20 rounds he scur-
ried round the ring, across the ring, back-
wards and forwards and roundabout, try-
ing to overtake a man who seemed to be
always in some other part of Time and
Space. Once he stopped right in the
middle and begged Kay to
come and see him. Kay
called, and banged him
twice on the mouth and
once in the eye. Then Kay
got the verdict on points.
Fred’s next opponent was
Joe Shugrue, whom he en-
countered at Sydney on
September 6, 1914. The
struggle consisted of wild
efforts by the American to
get to close quarters, while Kay moved
round the ring, punching on the retreat.
When Shugrue got in close he punished
Kay severely; but for every time he
arrived where he fain would be he
missed the mark half a dozen times, all
of which counted to Kay. That son of
King Arthur’s seneschal never stayed at
close quarters long enough to be hurt.
He just walked out of reach and poked
his long right into Shugrue’s eyes, nose
(Continued on page 39.)


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
■H
I
mm
i
Interior of One of the Storage Cellars—Total Storage Capacity Maturing Cellars over 4\ Million Gallons.


AFTER THE JAG.
“In the fifth year of Rooseveltism it is acknowledged that the national debt has been doubled, that a fifth of the national income is being taken in taxes, that there will be
another huge annual deficit and that the unemployed number 11,000,000.”.
“Let this be a warning to you birds!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
DRIVING PEOPLE AWAY.
“Since 1930 departures of people of British stock have
exceeded arrivals by 25,558.” —Canberra report.
From time to time the Briton who thinks he would
like to live abroad is invited in newspaper advertise-
ments to “Come to Australia, Where the Pound Ster-
ling Is Worth Twenty-Five Shillings.” The invitation
may be proffered by the Australian National Travel
Association, which is getting this year £20,000 from
the Commonwealth Government, or by the High
Commissioner or by any of the six State Agents-
General; for in this matter, as in many others, the
rulers of Australia delight in setting up half a dozen
or more organisations where one would suffice. But
the Briton who has heard that Australia is a pleasant
place to live in is probably unaware of this, and he
finds the advertisements alluring, especially as more
and bigger passenger-carrying vessels, each with its
“tourist class,” have entered the Australian trade.
So there has been a fairly considerable influx of
British Army and Royal Navy veterans and retired
civil servants and small investors from the U.K., India
and the Crown colonies. For the most part, they find
Australia to their liking, the food being good and fairly
cheap, the scenery attractive, the climate admirable
and the people and their recreations congenial. But
those who make for the most populous States find
themselves presented with demands for local taxes
which they would not have to pay if they settled in
any British county. Rather than submit to these
demands they go back home ; and as likely as not
the boat that carries them bears away native Aus-
tralians who are leaving their own country because
of the same kind of imposition. Then the Common-
wealth Statistician reports that there has been another
annual loss of population of British stock, though the
annual excels of arrivals over departures of Southern
Europeans—who are not taxed on income from
abroad, having none —has been greater than ever.
Last year the Taxpayers’ Associations took up
the cudgels for such of these “migrants” as had not
left Australia. It speaks volumes for the confusion
into which income taxation has fallen in this country
of many taxgatherers that they had to write to seven
departments to ascertain the position; and in
some cases they received information which is any-
thing but precise.
The Commonwealth Department replied ponder-
ously that “a taxpayer who is a resident of Aus-
tralia” is taxable on “gross income derived directly
or indirectly from all sources, whether in or out of
Australia” and calculated in Australian currency, but
non-Australian income is exempt from tax “where
that income is not exempt from tax in the country
where it is derived.”
The N. S. Wales office said:
Under the Special Income and Wages Tax Act 1936
a resident taxpayer is assessable on all investment income
derived from sources outside Australia, such- income
being expressed in terms of Australian currency, irre-
spective of whether it is remitted to Australia or not.
From Tasmania came the information that “in-
come received in the State from any source,” annuities
and purchased pensions included, is “assessable,” and
this choice bit was added:
A purchased pension, including exchange received
in this State, would be subject to income tax, a deduc-
tion being allowed of the purchase cost divided by
expectation of life. If the pension has borne income tax
in any country of source outside Australia a rebate of
ordinary income tax is allowed. The special income tax
in this State is not subject to such rebate.
Westralia replied that “State taxes are imposed
only on income derived from sources in this State.”
The Queensland communication was to the same
effect: “Investments and retiring allowances from
sources ex-Australia and pensions, when the whole of
the service was rendered outside Australia, are not
liable to Queensland tax.” South Australia intimated
that “dividends from any company, whether incor-
porated in South Australia or not,” are taxed in the
case of sojourners, but no other sort of income.
Victoria sent, through its Commissioner for Taxes,
a statement of Victorian policy on the subject and
also a defence, which rather suggests that the depart-
ment framed the policy. The law was thus stated:
A resident is assessable on his gross income derived
directly or indirectly from all sources, whether in or
out of Victoria.
And assessable income includes
the amount of any pension or superannuation allowance
received by a resident irrespective of sources, provided
that where the taxpayer has paid in any place out of
Victoria income tax (other than Commonwealth income
tax), he shall be entitled to a rebate equal to the tax
so paid, or the tax payable in Victoria, whichever is the
less.
The Commonwealth and British Governments
have for years had an agreement designed to prevent
double taxation of Australians living in Britain and
of Britons living in Australia. Though the State
Governments are not parties to the agreement they
are in honor bound to respect it, but three of them
are flouting it in the shabbiest provincial spirit. They
are even taxing British incomes which John Bull him-
self spares because he considers them too small to tax
—£3oo from property in the case of a married man
with two children and £350 in that of a family of five.
By so doing they are driving away tax-money as well
as spending-money, and a most desirable class of
immigrant with it.
Suppose the policy were changed in keeping with
those newspaper advertisements, and suppose 20,000
retired Britons came to Australia and spent £4,000,000
a year—as they very well might. Tax-revenue’s share
of that expenditure would at the very least be
£500,000 a year. The taxgatherers would begin to
collect out of the first postage stamp and receipt
stamp bought. What is more important, Australia
would be getting a most valuable instalment of the
population it so pressingly needs.
Overseas income transmitted to Britons in Aus-
tralia should be as tax-free in the hands of its reci-
pients as if it were capital—which, in effect, it is. The
advantages of making it tax-free have been recog-
nised by the Governments of Queensland and West-
ralia. Public opinion should force the other four
State Governments to fall in line.
Capturing the Meat Trade.
The Australian meat- trade continues to be a product
of the great-open-spaces tradition. Growers naturally
aspire to a major place in the world’s markets; but
this is not to be gained and held by cherishing the
belief that, by repeating over and over again that
Australian beef is the best in the world, it will be
the best in the world.
In the last three years politics have entered largely
into the trade. Mr. Lyons, Dr. Page and Mr. Thorby
have all taken a hand in it in London, and have
returned astonished at their success in obtaining the
right to export larger quotas which could not be filled.
An Australian Meat Board has been added to the
organisations which regulate the trade, and it is pro-
posed to have a London representative at a salary
of £2OOO p.a.—too little for a first-class man and too
much for a representative whose operations will in-
evitably be restricted by semi-political supervision.
Canberra, however, is becoming worried about
the quality of Australian beef. H. R. Tinney, who
represents the Commerce Department in London,
has reported that “the quality at no period has been
outstanding, and in some cases has been inferior”:
The fact that Australian parcels have brought
relatively high prices is more the result of a shortage
of secondary grades of chilled beef than a tribute to the
quality.
In other words, where other countries take the
trouble to send only their best beef, Australia is satis-
fied to take the leavings of the market. If there were
more first-grade beef available it would be sold at
a higher price.
For the older grading method of marking beef
“general average quality” and “fair average quality”
something new has been substituted. Chilled beef is
sent abroad with a blue label for first quality and red
for second quality. Third-quality chilled beef is not
exported; but third-quality frozen beef may be, and
third-quality frozen beef is decorated with a white
ribbon. In the selection of colors, the tradition of
the show-rings is followed. Frozen beef still repre-
sents 58 p.c. of beef exports and chilled beef only
16.4 p.c., though no Englishman will eat frozen if
he can get chilled.
On the London market in December Argentine
chilled hinds brought s|d. to 6|d. per pound, but
Australian of corresponding size realised only sd. to
While Maoriland frozen ox hinds commanded
54d., Australian brought only 4}d.
There are two vital essentials which must be
satisfied if the Australian beef trade is to grow to
the proportions to which it should grow: production
of better beef and quicker and more regular delivery
to market.
Last year 82.7 p.c. of all export beef came from
Queensland. The bulk of it was grown in the west
and in the ranges, and it was not possible to fatten
the stock young, even if type and breeding had made
it suitable for young fattening. The cattle were driven
long distances, railed other long distances, fed on
any natural pasture which might be available ; then
killed, shipped 10,000 miles and delivered in England.
There the competition is with cattle —often 50 p.c.
younger—bred on lush English meadows or fattened
on Scottish turnips, and with cattle got in Argentina
by British sires, brought to early maturity on corn
and lucerne, and dehorned. Argentine chilled meat is
delivered in Britain 20 days after killing.
In the circumstances, it says much for the basic
quality of Australian beef and for Britain’s need of
beef that prices are even what they are and the
demand sufficient to absorb as much meat as we can
spare.
The first essential in improvement of quality is
a brigading of effort between interior stock-raisers
and coastal farmers. The interior is suitable for
breeding, but the cattle need to be taken to the coast
for fattening. If this process were regular and
seasonal, it would put a good many more million
acres of coastal land under improved pasture and
corn and lucerne, and the increased prices and the
quicker turnover would certainly pay for the process.
In shipping, there is much to be done. Dr.
Vickery, who reported on the loss of bloom in Aus-
tralian chilled meat sent overseas, attributed it in the
main to discoloration of flesh through bruising before
slaughter, faulty stowage and lack of temperature-
control during voyages which are far too long. Loss
of bloom through natural causes begins to show in
some cargoes as early as the fortieth day. The aver-
age duration of the voyage of Queensland beef—
against the Argentine’s 20 days —is 56 days.
Wool is not a highly perishable commodity, but
delivery of wool to European ports has been speeded
up till the average voyage from Sydney to Dunkirk
is 30 days. Shippers of meat could regularly bring
their voyages to the same standard if it were worth
their while. But they must have supplies guaranteed
in an even flow over a definite season. And there
can be no assurance of that so long as interior
droughts and out-of-date methods of beef-production,
droving and husbandry determine the flow of sup-
plies, and render a large proportion of Australian
cattle so poor in quality that Australians: have to eat
them.
The "Vision Splendid” Touch.
Some ten years ago Stanley G. Drummond, convalesc-
ing on the beach sands at what Sydney calls the
Village, was struck with an idea that measures up to
the breadth of “Banjo” Paterson’s conception of the
vision splendid. It had to do, too, with sunlit plains
extended, and every year it goes on building from that
original vision into a more splendid institution.
As it now operates, the Far West Children’s
Health Scheme which Mr. Drummond thus got going
has diverged considerably from the earlier plans. These
were simply to provide holidays by the sea. Admirable
enough in its way, that idea has been greatly improved
on. Children now brought in are ones who need
caring for; ailing and undernourished youngsters.
Hundreds of these now stand a first-rate chance of
growing up normally healthy; future national assets,
instead of, in many cases, permanent cripples.
About 150 more children are at the annual camp
at Manly. In selection for these camps malnourished
children and those living in lonely places have first
preference. These have three weeks or so on the
beaches and in the surf.
To see them there would wring support for the
Scheme from a miser. And that represents only an
item in the work being done. In addition to the annual
camp, the Scheme supports the Far West Home at
Manly for children who require specialised treat-
ment ; the daily average for 1937 was 167.
Even that does not begin to indicate the size and
shape the Scheme has taken. Among other things, it
has five travelling Baby Health Centres operating in
the N.S.W. West, covering an area spreading out from
Boggabilla to Back o’ Bourke. The Scheme’s latest
annual report mentions that the sisters in charge of
these centres travelled more than 33,800 miles, visited
3638 homes and attended 6210 patients. The chief
sister travelled 65,021 miles in 85 trips, transporting
325 children to and from their homes.
Additionally, the superintendent and Mrs. Drum-
mond travelled 34,280 miles by train and car, and
voluntary transport attendants travelled 34,834 miles.
The sisters see over 1000 babies monthly, and an
Aerial Baby Clinic is on the job serving settlers up
to 200 miles west of Bourke, which town is also the
address of the Scheme’s aerial ambulance.
The Scheme has the ( credit of inaugurating the
first survey of cripples carried out in Australia. In
this, as in some other activities, it does not restrict
itself to the Far West. In other parts of the State
also it carries on systematic searches for crippled
youngsters, takes specialists to country centres to do
examinations in conjunction with local doctors and
sees to vocational selection and training, as well as
medical and surgical attention.
One of the many striking incidental things about
the Scheme has been the public response to it. Taking
hold of the public imagination, as well it might, it
provides an outstanding example of the social com-
munity spirit seen working at its best.
To name the branches working for it —there are
now 122 of them —would be to give a list of pretty well
all the towns and townships of western N. S. Wales.
The C.W.A. has specially taken the Scheme under its
wing, contributing from £5OO to £750 to it annually.
The Port Jackson Steamship Co. has always given free
transport. Governmental grants have helped ; and,
since the Scheme relieves the State of an urgent respon-
sibility, doing the work better than any Government
department could hope to do it, an even more solid
acknowledgment of its obligation by the State would
not be resented by the most harassed taxpayer.
Doctors, masseurs, dentists, auditors, opticians,
electricians and hairdressers are among the individual
voluntary workers. Kingsford Smith, who was no mil-
lionaire, made the Scheme a present of £ll6l. Every
year enthusiasts have taken concert parties touring
western towns, netting upwards of £2OOO.
Kept going by this sort of assistance, what the
Scheme has done has been splendid ; but it costs £4 4s.
to give each chfld the annual health holiday alone —
apart from the provision of surgical equipment for the
crippled and other such costs —and the number of
youngsters benefited is only a small part of the num-
ber that could be. There is, unfortunately, no lack
of material for the Scheme to work on. To-day it
has the organisation to cope with its big job on a
grand scale, but:
In order to limit the recommendations of our country
branches and thus save many little heartbreaks, the
selection for the future will be limited to children of
the ages of 10 and 11 years. Hitherto children of 10
years and under 13 were eligible.
The workers hope for the day when funds will
allow them to bring into camp every Far West young-
ster who would otherwise never see the sea in child-
hood. Towards that objective the Scheme goes on
expanding, meanwhile working wonders..


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Away with History!
While the 150th Anniversary is being celebrated as
a tribute to history, Sydney committees appointed by
an unimaginative Sydney Government are devising
schemes for “development” which involve the destruc-
tion of buildings with their roots in Australia’s
beginnings.
One million-pound scheme would wipe out the
Macquarie Barracks in Queen’s Square, with their
fine proportions and characteristic clock face, along
with the remains of Australia’s first hospital. An-
other, designed for Circular Quay, would do away
with a whole string of historic buildings along the
western side, where the ground is steeped in history.
There in all probability Phillip made his first
landing in what became the city of Sydney, on a small
beach now covered by a slipway. Above was Aus-
tralia’s first fort. A hundred yards away Australia’s
first newspaper was published. Nothing remains there
of the earliest beginnings of Australian architecture;
but there are solid specimens of the age in which
the settlement was beginning to emerge from a camp
into a town.
Among the buildings which it is proposed to
destroy are at least three close together which, cleansed
of the signboards, lean-tos and iron sheds which have
been attached to them, might form a museum to give
future generations some idea of what the Sydney of
the first two decades of Australia was like.
Next to the Sailors’ Home, nestling under a high
bank, is perhaps the oldest building in the city proper—a
typical Government cottage built in the year of Trafal-
gar. A few yards along, near the Quay corner, are
the old Government Stores—the oldest public build-
ing in Australia except the Government House
at Parramatta, now used as one of the houses of The
King’s School. A solid old erection, known to five
generations of Australians, it has walls feet thick,
and the masons’ marks are still clear on almost every
stone. It might be a monument to one of Australia’s
grimmest periods and also to its most important year
of transition, for it was built during the interregnum
following the Bligh rebellion, when the Rum Corps
was in command. Behind it, facing George-street,
is a long, low building whose stone facing and central
doorway would be sought out as things of beauty
but for a department with a weakness for mud-colored
paint.
For nearly 130 years this structure has been
in continuous use by the Government. It was com-
pleted by Macquarie, being the first building to receive
his attention when he arrived in the colony. Acces-
sible and solid, it would make a fine museum, but it,
too, is in danger of being swept away.
Than this group there is nothing older and no-
thing solider in Sydney, or anywhere on the continent,
for that matter, except Macarthur’s Elizabeth cottage
at Parramatta, begun in 1793, and Experiment Farm,
which dates from 1789. It is worth preserving—far
more so than some of the relics which clutter up
museums.
"Sane Margins."
Dear Bulletin, —In your first leader (5/1/’3B) you
did me the honor to quote some figures I collated for
the “Sunday Sun” in an article, “Democratic v.
Fascist Fronts,” and you proceeded:
This dismal sort of arithmetic had a vogue during
the Great War....lt was implied that if, at the end,
the Allies were left with two soldiers and eighteenpence,
while the enemy had but one soldier and one shilling,
the Allies would have won the war.
In point of fact, dear Bulletin (but with sane mar-
gins, not with yours), that is exactly what happened.—
Yours, Adam McCay.
Let Mr. McCay have it his own way, even to
the “sane margins” which imperfectly conceal the
supreme tragedy of the modern world. The danger
is that, if Britain and the United States allow them-
selves to be manoeuvred into joining what he calls
the Democratic Front, as longed for by Stalin, Lit-
vinov and Thorez, the French Communist leader, it
may happen all over again.
News from Barcelona and Shanghai.
Taking literally the old cliche of enemy forces being
“driven like rats into drains,” “S. M. Herald” last
week made an exciting picture with headlines of the
“Teruel Rebels” “Besieged in Drains” and other
enthusiastic news of how the Valencia Government
crowd is dishing it out to Franco’s lot.
Evidently there has been some unusually savage
fighting about Teruel; extraordinary, in view of the
fact that this is the off-season for fighting in Europe,
because weather conditions halt transport.
Probably much more significant is the “Times”
report of the compulsory evacuation of 400,000 from
Madrid. It recalls the order issued to doctors at
Anzac to send away all Diggers who were even slightly
below par. The complete evacuation of Gallipoli
took place less than a month later.
In any case, “Granny” last week had to do the
sword-swallowing act in regard to a long course of
news from Spain, as well as in regard to her support
of the League of Nations.
We must face the fact that the original League of
Nations Covenant is now a museum relic,
which is the exact phrase The Bulletin tagged on to
it more than two years ago, when “Granny,” in com-
mon with most Australian dailies, thought the thing
worth fighting for.
“Granny” had instructed her special correspondent,
Denzil Batchelor, to have a look at the scene behind
Franco’s lines. He reported that “Franco’s army to-
day is in quantity over 90 p.c. Spanish, and in quality
even more strikingly national”; that “the 20,000 of
the International Brigade represents the very back-
bone of the Government’s army” ; that “Franco could
carry on his campaign without any diminution of his
striking success were every foreigner translated from
that part of Spain to his own country by magic carpet
to-morrow” ; and that, deprived of its foreign troops,
“the Government side must lose.”
He reported also that “Franco’s territory is ad-
ministered in as smooth and orderly fashion as any
country in Europe to-day”:
The Nationalist army is guiltless of atrocities,
except, if you like, of the bombing of civilian-inhabited
cities, which all humane people rightly regard as
abhorrent, but which is certain to become a common-
place of everyday war of the future.
All of which is a refutation of bushels of Spanish-war
cables published not only by “Granny” but by most
other Australian dailies. Since much the same thing
happened in regard to the Abyssinian affair, it must
leave many people doubtful regarding “sensational”
news from China. Especially some of the stuff in
which Sydney “Sun” specialises, and which has moved
even the “Daily Telegraph” to protest that “only harm
can come from printing” what it describes as “a
calculated exaggeration of the Japanese scene.”
The Other Gibraltar.
“El V.” goes to Hong Kong:
Hong Kong Island is shaped roughly like an old ewe
which has had its front legs bitten off by bulldog-ants in a
drought, and which has just become petrified at a moment
when its extended nose began to sniff water. The sniffing
attitude has a naturalistic air, for where Shiktangsun marks
the muzzle of the sheep in Sulphur Channel, and where the
mouth is formed at Hoi-chi-wan, a little further south, the
current odor wafted over the heights of Lantao from Canton
River —Chu Kiang—and Macao, the old Portuguese gambling
colony, has no relationship to the odor of sanctity.
Hong Kong is typically British in nature. From the
distance it looks sleepy, but underneath it is solid rock.
Its 11-mile length is sway-backed, with high ooints at the
1750 ft. Peak on the south and Mt. Parker, 1700 ft., on the
north. Between the island and Kowloon lies a narrow
sheltered harbor, along the verges of which is the city of
Victoria. The widest point is southward looking from the
island towards the Kowloon naval depot and the old P. and O.
anchorage. Northward, beyond Penguin shoals at Kweilung,
is the Lyee Moon channel, which gave its name to a famous
old Australian liner. There Hong Kong Island is only half
a mile from China proper.
Nearly a million people are packed into Hong Kong
territory, and all but a few of them are Chinese. Almost as
far up the Chu Kiang as Sydney is from Newcastle lies
Canton. Northward, the country sheers away into sugar
land. Between Canton and Hong Kong is a belt of water
channels. On the Macao side of the river, which is several
miles wide in the estuary, is a veritable maze of waterways,
debouching out of the converging Chu Kiang and the Si
Kiang. In the middle of these is Whampoa Naval Academy.
The Japanese are said to have made a landing on the
Macao side, and probably Whampoa is their objective. Their
choice of a landing-place is a nice compliment to their national
love of bathing.
From Hong Kong about 350 miles to the north-east is
Japan’s nearest possession, Formosa, in which over 5,000,000
subject Chinese grow about as much sugar as a few thousand
Queenslanders grow, produce large quantities of rice, coal and
tea, and refuse to learn the Japanese language.
Hong Kong on the surface is a bustling commercial city,
with an air of its own and none of the internationalism and
glitter of what used to be Shanghai. It is the headquarters
of the British China Squadron, the administration being on a
moored sloop near the Kellett Bank, off the south end of
Hong Kong proper. It has naval dockyards and shipbuilding
yards, sugar refineries and cement works, and about 40,000,000
tons of shipping is entered and cleared each year. Its
export trade, however, has dwindled.
If Japan had any ambition to dominate Hong Kong—
the “evidence” that it has consists wholly of flapper-press asser-
tions—it would be taking on the job of its life. Defensively,
Hong Kong is already a Gibraltar which dominates the main
traffic route into the rich Kwang-tung province, and when
schemes in progress are complete Gibraltar will be a circum-
stance beside it. These plans involve the expenditure of
£7,000,000. Gallipoli was easy to assault beside Hong Kong.
With Singapore 1440 miles away and Darwin 2340 miles away,
its continued existence as a British naval port and fortress is an
additional safeguard to Australia against invasion, whether
from the Old World or the New.
Australia might take example from Britain’s policy of
building island bases off continental mainlands. Bathurst
Island, off Arnhem Land, could be turned into an Australian
Singapore, and its fortified development would complete a
naval defence nutcracker built on each side of the Indian
Ocean into the jaws of which the strongest enemy would
hesitate to stray.
A Peeress's Plan.
Job was obviously not the only character in history
capable of darkening counsel with words without
knowledge. Not long ago the Douglas Credit and
Spanish-interventionist Dean of Canterbury advocated
the admission of Asiatics to the Northern Territory.
He has been joined by Lady Apsley, who spent a
few months here in 1925 and is prepared on the
strength of it to settle questions of northern colonisa-
tion with which Australians have been struggling for
the best part of a century.
Lady Apsley visited the Territory when there was
only one town with 100 people in it outside Darwin.
She found that it needed water conservation, roads,
bridges, rest-houses, schools and hospitals ; and she
says the needs are still there.
Towns where there are children enough have
schools, and where there are patients enough there
are hospitals, plus the services of the A.I.M. The
parts which the Payne Commission has reported
worthy of development have the best earth roads in
Australia. Even 20 years ago it was possible to cover
250 miles in a day by motor on the Barkly Tableland.
Bridges certainly are scarce, but there is nothing worth
bridging in the fertile areas.
Northern cattlemen, the lady allows, are fine
types ; but they suffer for lack of cheap labor* Actually
there is plenty of cheap, labor in the Territory if
there is work for it —the best type of labor for a
cattleman’s work, the Australian abo. As a horseman
and horsebreaker, the Red Indian could never have
given points to the northern Binghi.
But Lady Apsley ignores the abo. She would
solve the problem of the North with the Assyrian, the
Maltese and the Indian. Nobody apparently told her
when she was in the North that the population has had
its leaven of Patagonian, Maltese, Greek and Asiatic.
In Lady Apsley’s scheme, cheap and mostly-
colored labor is to produce goods for “Java, Malaya,
India and Siam.” These will always be subsidiary'
markets. The Territory’s natural products are meat,
wool and minerals, and for these there are ample
markets in Australia and the U.K.
Lady Apsley’s Lord was one of the proprietors
of the “Morning Post.” The “Morning Post” is dead
of the old malady, but it is no deader than Lady
Apsley’s Northern Territory plan.
Will Mr. Lyons Please Explain?
A farmer at Grove Hill in the Northern Territory
asked a Brisbane firm to get for him 15 bushels of
seed rice. The firm wrote to the N. S. Wales Rice
Marketing Board, which replied that it supplied only
rice-growers in the Murrumbidgee irrigation areas
who desire to exchange their seed.
A letter was then sent to the Commonwealth
Department of Territories. A reply was received
from the Department of Commerce:
As you are aware, the cultivation of rice in Aus-
tralia is practically confined to the Murrumbidgee irriga-
tion area, and there is an understanding amongst the
States that its production will not be encouraged else-
where than in N. S. Wales.
It is noted that you have not been successful in
obtaining seed from the Rice Marketing Board. In the
circumstances I regret I am unable to assist you in
the matter of obtaining your requirements.
The actual signatory matters nothing. The point,
the amazing and startling point, of the letter is that
it constitutes an abject confession by the Australian
Government that it is so much under the thumb of
State interests that it is not allowed to assist one of
its own taxpayers to establish a potentially valuable
industry in its own territory.
Rice was grown in the N.T. before the Murrum-
bidgee irrigation area was ever thought of. If the
States should choose to come to a similar “under-
standing” with regard to cattle or sheep or any other
item of primary production, they would seem to have
it in their power to throttle every future attempt at
industry or development in North Australia.
The unqualified admission of such a governing
principle with relation to a Commonwealth Territory
suggests possibilities of the most undesirable kind,
and demands full and detailed explanation by the
'Prime Minister.
Only Witnesses.
There were unsatisfactory features about the opening
in Melbourne of the inquest concerning the death of
John Thomas Demsey, whose bullet-marked body
was found at Kinglake West on November 3.
Exactly a hundred witnesses had been subpoenaed.
It was obviously impossible for the hundred witnesses
to be heard in one day, or two days, but the presence
of all of them was demanded.
They had nowhere to wait but in a small court-
yard in front of the morgue. Some of them spent
days there before the morbid stares of those people
who always wander along to any widely-publicised
court hearing. Surely it could have been arranged for
the inquest to be held in a larger court, and it should
have been just as easy to call witnesses in batches, as
has been done in other important cases involving
lengthy hearings.
A Chance for Art.
Artists, sculptors and philatelists have combined in
raising an uproar over the design for the new four-
penny Australian stamp due for issue in February.
Its main feature is a representation of a koala, and
in order that there may be no mistake as to what he
has drawn the designer has labelled it. John Long-
staff pronounces the thing very bad. A. E. Newbury
describes it as ranking, like other recent Australian
stamps, among the world’s worst.
Such outcries and complaints are not peculiar to
this country. Much the same opinions, in much the
same language, were expressed by British artists con-
cerning the stamps issued in 1936 for the short reign
of .Edward VIII. A subsequent effort by two of their
most eminent members to improve the job for the
George VI. issues has evoked further screams of
artistic fury and denunciation.
There has been much talk of late upon the need
for raising Australia’s cultural lone. The ordinary
lowbrow taxpayer pays little attention to what is on
the front of a stamp so long as the gum on the back
is sufficiently good to prevent it from falling off in
transit and attracting large amounts of surcharge. But,
if stamps do possess the cultural value ascribed to
them, the present object of denunciation would seem to
afford a first-rate opportunity for making a practical
beginning with the uplift job. It surely should be a
labor of love for the two newly-constituted artistic
bodies which claim, between them, final authority
upon all such subjects in Australia to unite in placing
before the Postmaster-General, and Australians of all
grades of brow-level, a practical example of what they
consider a really cultured Australian stamp should
look like.
Designs for a penny stamp for intra-Australian
letters and a penny-halfpenny for Empire air-mail
might even, by their sheer artistic beauty, so soften
the hearts of our postal rulers as to lead them to relax
their present rapacious charges.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Loto”: When Hugh R. Dent, the
London publisher, arrived a newshound
from a Sydney daily inquired his mis-
sion. “To discover the great Australian
author,” said Dent dutifully, whereupon
newshound commented, possibly with
tender thoughts of his own near-com-
pleted masterpiece: “What a pity you
didn’t come three months later.” “Good
lord!” snorted the visitor, “is he going
to be born?”
* * * *
“Willum”: An insurance salesman
who had been pestering the people
on a farm at Telegraph Point (N.S.W.)
found the place deserted on his sixth
visit. He spent half an hour in a vain
search and then returned —to find that
his horse had backed his sulky through
a five-wire fence. He could hardly believe
his eyes, but there was the horse on one
side completely harnessed to the trap,
which was on the other. After unhook-
ing the traces he took the nag a long
trip to the gate and back to the sulky.
Mystified, he drove back to his office.
When he heard that the folks for whom
he was searching had taken the horse
out, lifted the sulky over the fence,
poked the shafts back between the wires
and hooked up the horse, he didn’t bother
them again.
H= * * *
“D.8.K.”: More drastic than the
treatment meted out to “Colonel Bung-
starter’s” Wolverhampton car pirates (B.
5/1/’3B) was the experience of a wire-
less operator friend of mine ashore in
New York in 1921. Exercising an
appraising eye for charmers, he caught
the eye of a strolling blonde. She coyly
egged him on, and halting at a street
corner awaited “Sparks’s” advance.
Hardly had he skirmished a few words
when the lady turned to a blue-clad gent,
idly swinging a truncheon strapped to
his wrist, and said: “Take this guy in
charge, will ya, f’r pesterin’ me?” She
was a police trap and licensed as such.
It cost us some dollars next morning to
get “Sparks” out from behind the bars.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: To emphasise its en-
tire agreement with an article in the
“New York Herald” urging “parallel
British and American roads to peace,”
the “Cronk-News” says it “feels like the
M.P. who rose in the House of Commons
to observe ‘I say ditto to Mr. Pitt.’ ” But
the incident referred to didn’t happen at
Westminster. The scene of it was Bristol,
and it followed a speech by Burke, not
Pitt. The great orator had for his col-
league in the representation of the city
a worthy burgess who was fully con-
scious of his own deficiencies as a
speaker, and it was after a glittering tor-
rent of eloquence from the senior mem-
ber at an election meeting that his off-
sider was called on by the chairman for
his little lot. “I say ditto to Mr. Burke”
was his concise contribution to the even-
ing’s entertainment.
* * * *
“Corporal Wanst”: Old hands will
grow reminiscent over the rush of reform
which is overtaking the Imperial Army.
After the Boer War a royal commission
sat for years and issued a vast report.
At this late date writer recalls that the
features which most intrigued the per-
sonnel were specifications of a weird
new field uniform, the abolition of gold
lace on officers’ dress overalls and the
wearing of the sash by officers round the
waist instead of over the left shoulder.
It was not until long after that the real
reforms set in—the issue of a new rifle
and an effective field gun, the tightening-
up of training, especially in shooting, and
an entirely new system of tactics and
field training.
•!* *l*
“Garda”: The chain-letter has come
to life in Sydney once more. At the
top of each is an alleged Chinese
good-luck symbol to which, the story
goes, an oil co. official attributes a
remarkable series of escapes from death
during the Sino-Japanese War. The
recipient is asked not to break the world-
wide chain of luck. If he will send a
mere florin to the person whose name
appears at the top of the enclosed list,
put his own name at the bottom and post
similar epistles to five friends, good luck
will soon be his (to the extent of a profit
of 7s. 2d. if all goes well, though it isn’t
put that way). He is asked also to
“think correctly” in the cause of peace,
and each letter he sends will be “an
ambassador to make people think of and
realise the terrible cqnsequences of war.”
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: A result of the suc-
cessful war waged in favor of scantier
bathing costumes in Queensland has
"Help!"
been a notable increase in the
number of cases of severe sunburn. At
three southern beaches over 250 people
were treated by the ambulance units, and
quite a number required urgent in-
patient hospital treatment during the
Christmas holidays. Even strong redden-
ing over an extra couple of square feet
of skin surface can upset the body
mechanism in all sorts of unpleasant ways
in spite of well-tanned limbs and chest.
The bold adventurer whose idea of a
complete change from office life is to
imitate the garb and occupation of one
of Norman Lindsay’s buccaneer boat-
men is simply looking for trouble. Par-
ticularly if he is of the red-haired, thin-
skinned, Celtic-ancestored adventurous
kind. Or she. But she’s not usually so
foolish. Most of the cases were males.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Looks as though Sydney-
siders will get some laughs during the
sesqui shivoo. The procession should
provide a number —one of the floats is to
be devoted to a reproduction of Melba
XV., a cow which put up a world record
for milk and butterfat production, with a
plaster Cupid riding astride. And the
crowd controlling the Empire Games has
begun well. The idea was that as each
team arrived to take up its quarters at
the Showground its flag would be hauled
to a masthead to the strains of its coun-
try’s anthem. When *the Rhodesians
came —they do patriotic palpitations to
“Land of Hope and Glory”—the only
gramophone record (there was no band)
with their time was one with the
whole of Elgar’s “Pomp and Circum-
stance” march on it. Five times the
bloke working the thing tried to pick out
the slow movement, getting a few bars
of the brisk introduction on each occa-
sion. When eventually “Land of Hope
and Glory” did ring out, the flag was
already aloft.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: If the authority who
controls the Moslem nether regions really
wants to inflict torture on some old-
fashioned Arab soul he can do it easily
enough by merely letting the victim have
a glimpse at the conditions of the new
Arabia. Last time I saw it, the fringes
of it were still inhabited by hawk-eyed
and unwashed persons who were in the
transition stage from camel and horse to
Fords, but who were still swathed in
Arab robes. They looked on arak as
a decent drink, and a long series of
bloodcurdling shrieks emitted through
the nose as grand opera. Almost to a
man they were hung with daggers, jezails,
old Lee-Enfields and various kinds of
provender, so that when they moved
they sounded like an ironmongery in
an earthquake. Only a decade later
the illustrated journals show me Arabs
in dungarees and serge. The 8.8. C. has
been broadcasting English folk-songs to
entertain the tribe—many a man has been
knifed for less in the Middle East —and
a gentleman has been sentenced to death
for having 80 cartridges on him. This
shows how complete a reversal of form
there has been in Arab life. In my day
the easiest way to get sentenced to cer-
tain death in the desert was not to have
plenty of cartridges.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The Gilbertian case of the
Port-road has been decided on appeal by
S.A.’s Supreme Court. The road from
Port Adelaide to the city is so broad that
it has latterly been made into two one-
way tracks, with the central space (origi-
nally meant for a canal) laid out as plan-
tations, croquet-lawns, etc. There are
numerous crossovers, and thus a motorist
coming in from a side street can go right
across the track of another on the main
road. Yet it is now decided, though
only by a majority judgment, that the
whole Port-road is one, and thus there
is no “intersecting” unless there is an-
other side-street exit to correspond on
the far side. A whole batch of main-road
motorists charged with speeding over
intersections have thus won their case.
* * * *
“Xo”: The shindy in East Asia may
help the Australian birthrate. The
little men of Nippon have chased the
Chinese off some of their more specialised
market-gardens and disturbed the produc-
tion and export of drugs popular with
birth-controllists. Result has been a jump
from 12s. 6d. to 325. 6d. in the Australian
per-ounce cost price of one ingredient,
and a 28s. 6d. to 48s. 6d. rise in another.
* * * *
“Poppy Day”: Down the gangway of
a ship in Darling Harbor, Sydney, came a
Chinaman with a sugarbag slung over his
shoulder. No sooner had he put his
foot on the wharf than he was seized by
a Customs man. With an air of not ex-
pecting to be believed the Chink told a
tale of taking the ship’s cat to be de-
stroyed, but he was ordered to open up
the bag. John protested that if the cat got
away it would take hours to catch. His
plea fell on unsympathetic ears, and the
bag was yanked open. Out leaped puss,
and with John in pursuit raced back on
to the ship. Two hours later the China-
man reappeared with his bag. “Get
him?” asked the Customs man. John
nodded. And that is how another parcel
of little tins found its way to the joint.
* * * *
“8.N.G.”: Rosita Forbes is regaling
readers of a Sydney daily with tales of
a New Guinea which will perhaps not
be easily recognisable to residents
therein. Leopards (or were they pan-
thers?) of the mountain country had a
brief mention in one instalment, which
looks as though the eminent Wallace
placed his Line too high. In a later descrip-
tion of a drive inland in a “buckboard”
the lady writes: “There were hanging
flowers, birds overbalanced by their
beaks, and others with tails like a burst
of flame.” She was very lucky. During
a long period of patrol work in Papua’s
northern areas the two things I could
not claim to have seen to any great ex-
tent were birds and flowers. Birds were
to be heard at all times of the night and
day, but they were hidden by the dense
tropical foliage. I saw my first birds
of paradise after I had left Papua—in
the South Kensington Museum.
■* * * *
“Biz”: McMullen, an accountant
friend from Newcastle, dropped into my
Sydney office just before the festive
season. After lunch at Anthony Hor-
derns’ Mac, who has a face like a solemn
Scotch terrier himself, stopped to buy a
black mechanical dog with a red tail
which spun round fast and noisily.
“See, mister, I’ll wind ’im up f yer, just
t’ show ’e works properly,” said the
salesman on the kerb; then, the tail
still buzzing, he smothered the toy and
its key in a cardboard box and gave
Mac sixpence back out of two bob.
A little while later we were studying
prices in the sober atmosphere of the
Stock Exchange when Jones, B.Ec.,
hailed me. “It seems I owe you a cup
of coffee,” he said affably. “The Ger-
man mark hasn’t done what I bet you it
would.” Then, “Another economist, I
hope?” he said as I introduced him to
Mac.- “Now, take the Blum Govern-
ment’s 40-hour week —yes, er, the 40-
hour week” He broke off, his eyes
widening and his academic air changing
to disconcerted blankness. A noisy
buzzing was coming from the direc-
tion of McMullen; he had stolidly
removed his dog from its package dur-
ing the discussion of High Finance, and
the tail of the released animal started
off on its own again in seeming merry
spirits. High Finance was outed. With
raised eyebrows the B.Ec. politely
bid us good-day. “I wanted to make
sure the key was still in the box,” ex-
plained Mac to me, unconscious that he
had just stifled a revelation of What
Roosevelt Would Definitely Be Forced
To Do In 1938.
* * * *
“Trevdee”: Here are a couple more
for “Fiona’s” collection (B. 29 /12 / ’37).
A Geelong (Vic.) garage man calls his
place a “Lubritorium.” A Melbourne
light-lunch counter rejoices in the sign
“Snacketeria.”
BLURB.
There’s a word that has puzzled me many a
day,
Denoting a compound of blither and bray,
But for fitting its subject I count it superb,
That pungent expression, a publisher’s “blurb.”
On-o-mat-o-po-et-ic you’d call it, I s’pose,
Though its actual origin nobody knows.
It might fairly be Volapuk, Gaelic or Serb,
But I’ll hazard it’s Yankee, the publisher’s
“blurb.”
It’s an appetite-coaxer concocted, you feel,
To give you a zest for a fictional meal,
A cocktail, a julep with mint for a herb
To tickle the palate, a publisher’s “blurb.”
Ingredients? Some thunderous nouns, not a few
Grandiloquent, glittering adjectives, too,
Spiced now and again with a resonant verb,
And here you’ve a genuine publisher’s “blurb.”
It will mostly be found as reliable, quite,
As the stuff which our goldmine flotationers
write.
If you deprecate humbug your pen you must
curb
When you spread yourself out on a publisher’s
“blurb.”
Lord knows, since my inky wayfaring began,
I’ve turned out most .things that a journalist
can.
But my spirit would quail and my dreams
’twould disturb
Were l hired for concocting a publisher’s
“blurb.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“E.J.”: Newcastle must be marvelling
at what' it has read lately about police
sergeants. One sergeant was summoned
to the church-school ground in which the
nude body of a domestic was found.
According to his evidence, he “saw a
man who pointed to where the body
was lying” ; but he couldn’t identify the
man. The man or some man was asked
to go to the police station, where a
doctor “got him to bite an apple and
try to bite one of the sergeants.” It
seems that he set his mark on the apple
but not' on the sergeant, the sergeant
being impervious to the test. Newcastle
is doubtless wondering whether the case
is likely to furnish any further evi-
dence bearing on the ways of sergeants
or the uses to which sergeants may be
put.
* * * *
“Philo”: I regard most American
abbreviations of our language as distinct
improvements. “Sure,” for instance, says
"Wait outside 'ere w'ile I word the missus."
Justus much in fewer letters as “surely”
or to be sure” or “certainly,” its Eng-
hsh predecessors. “Out the door” or
“back of the pub” are just as intelligible
unencumbered with our prepositions, and
why say or write “six or seven” when
six-seven ’ answers the purpose equally
well/ Incongruously enough, the Yanks
sometimes retain a word in its entirety
winch has long since been shortened in
“ 6 * home of the language, e.g.,
gotten tor “got” and “overly” for
ver. Ihe former has a Biblical flavor
for some justification, but “overly,” with
its utterly superfluous termination, seems
' devoid of any.
* * * *
“T.”: Launceston (Tas.) is challeng-
ing Christchurch’s pre-eminence as the
City of Cycles. Girls especially have got
the bikepushing craze, and a dealer told
the “Examiner” that towards the end of
the old year he had to give up selling to
girls, the supply having temporarily run
out. Girls bought two jiggers for one
sold to the other sex; the principal
buyers were mill lasses in Invermay who
wanted to combine recreation and exer-
“Does that go for ME?”
c i se with tramfare savings. This reminds
me that Launceston runs municipal tram-
ways which don’t pay. As more and
more young people acquire the habit of
providing their own means of getting
about, no publicly-owned street-transport
system seems likely to have a healthy
future. Of course, that won’t prevent
politicians from sinking loads of bor-
rowed money in street-transport systems,
and the more obsolescent they are the
more will be sunk.
* * * *
“D.E.”: In the case of the posthumous
knighthood conferred on a good Diggef
at the New Year, it was notified that the
widow would be “granted the style of
title, place and precedence to which she
would have been entitled had her hus-
band survived.” This removes the im-
pression, which I myself harbored, that a
knight’s wife had no “style of title, place
and precedence” other than those granted
to her by courtesy. I should like to know
how style of title, place and precedence go
when a knight has been divorced and has
married again. There is at least one Aus-
tralian case of the kind. Each of the
belted gentleman’s partners is above
ground, and each is addressed as Lady
jo, t
'* * * *
“F.S.”: Vic. Housewives’ Association
has nominated a woman to the vacant
National Gallery trusteeship in Mel-
bourne. If women are to be represented,
as women, on the board of selection,
why not on the walls of the gallery?
On the basis of numbers, there ought
to be at least as many paintings by
women as by males. Clarice Beckett,
considered by many the most distin-
guished woman painter Australia has
produced, is not represented in the
national collection. Yet the majority of
travelling-scholarship winners at the
gallery school have been young ladies.
They have gone to Europe, returned,
held an exhibition and then been
absorbed, for the most part, into mat-
rimony. If the H.A. wants to benefit
art it will be obliged to attack the insti-
tution of matrimony, not the board, of
trustees, poor fellows.
“Lao-dah”: Faith-healing in
respect to the written word
(B. 29/12/’37) isn’t confined
to the Malay and the China-
man. At a hotel at Port Mac-
quarie (N.S.W.) I was told by
the maid-of-all-work that the
blisters my wife had acquired
on a walking trip from Bris-
bane ought to be broken. To
ensure a quick recovery from
the operation, she added, the
painful things should be
banged smartly with a Bible.
* * *
“F.S.”: There is always a
catch in these bequests left
for intellectual reasons. Alex-
ander Morrison Kirkland, of
Canterbury (Vic.), has be-
queathed £lOOO to the Mel-
bourne Rationalist Association
on condition that it does not
preach Communist or Fascist
doctrine and stands for indi-
vidual liberty and justice as
advocated by Adam Smith,
Henry George and the ad-
vanced Liberals of the nine-
teenth century. Henry George’s
single-tax panacea is kept alive, with
clubs in every city, almost solely by such
bequests as Mr. Kirkland’s.
* * * *
“Lespy”: A block of flats at Rand-
wick (N.S.W.) has two-shillings-in-the-
slot gas meters. A collector found one
containing a couple of florins that
was half full of water. Tenant said she
had not used the gas much. Next time
collector called he found the same thing,
and then no florins but plenty of water’
floating on which was a thin disk
of ice. The tenants moved that
morning. Gas co. came to the con-
elusion they had been casting florins of
ice in the refrigerator. The stuff melted
and destroyed the evidence, but for once
in a way the collector had opened the
cash box before one had dissolved,
* ,„ * * A/r , * ,
Sandpatch : The Mohamme an
Ma l a V a ( ma y be . ab ° ut bandlln «
pork, but not so the Sikh when it comes
to beef. The late F. V. Wareham, of Byron
Bay (N.S.W.), used to employ a lot of
them harvesting paspalum seed, and one
<Jay Johallah Singh was sent to town for
rations. The boss knew the Sikh objec-
tion to handling beef of any sort, so
rang the butcher up and told him to
pack the meat in a box and give it to
the grocer. The scheme somehow came
unstuck, and a very irate Sikh landed
home with the groceries to say that the
meat was on a stump a mile from home,
and that any more tricks like that would
mean the whole gang walking off. With
a barn full of unthreshed grass the
threat was too serious to be disregarded.
That night Johallah and his mates went
through elaborate ceremonies, and stung
the boss for an extra five pounds of
butter.
* * * *
“Q. 1.8.”: Following on his scrap with
the Tugeri (B. 5/1/’3B), Captain Butter-
worth, of the B.N.G. native constabu-
lary, had one with brass-hats of the Im-
perial Army—and he wasn’t victorious.
Butterworth was serving in S’Africa
against the Boers with a Queensland regi-
ment, and he used to wear the ribbon of
a medal issued by the Colonial Office to
commemorate the Tugeri and other
scraps. One day he was ordered by an
officer to remove the ribbon. In vain he
protested that it was a dinkum active-
service issue by the C. 0., which had
put out others of the kind in the past
for small “colonial” turn-ups. He was
told that these had been sanctified by the
official presence of a proportion of real
soldiers, whereas the B.N.G. affair
was entirely unofficial, conducted by
amateurs and not entitled to a medal
issue. Only two or three of these
medals were ever issued. Writer knew
of only one other beside Butterworth’s,
that being held by Sergeant Kimai, of
the A.N.C., who has long been gathered
to his fathers.
* * * *
“Tripos”: Don’t know where “Arcde-
guerre” (B. 15/12/’37) got his informa-
tion that the mediaeval measurement of
“a furlonge and 100 paces” approximated
to 320 yards, but I may forestall some
scribe from questioning his mathematical
accuracy. The word “furlong” derives
from “furrow-long” (a relic of the Middle
Ages system of strip-farming) and
varied considerably in length, in accord-
ance with time and locality. As fallow
land and rotated-crop areas formed no
part of the agricultural science of those
days, arable land was marked off in
strips (even as narrow as 20ft.), and the
length was determined by what was con-
sidered a fair and reasonable furrow.
The ploughman of those days needed a
pretty eye for a straight line, since the
“furrow-long” varied between 250 to
400 yards.
SHORTER COPS.
“The height standard for London policemen has
been reduced to sft. Bin. on the ground that modern
conditions make physique and intelligence more im-
portant than stature.” — Cable.
Time was when guardians of the peace were
reckoned
Best from the ranks of sons of Anak drawn,
When breadth of mind to length of limb came
second
And brains were held of less account than
brawn.
A vague idea prevailed that quasi- giants
Equipped with truncheons and attired in blue
Inspired more awe, engendered more reliance,
Than less imposing civic guards would do.
But progress moves inexorably on:
Authority approves a shorter John.
No more will Sikes and Crackit and un-
numbered
Followers in their paths of modern date
By cops two yards in height or more be lum-
bered —
Their captors mayn’t be more than five-foot-
eight.
No more will revellers painting Piccadilly
On boatrace nights a gay and festive red
To watch-house cells and precincts, willy-nilly,
By Herculean forms be shepherded.
And even towering traffic constables
Are like to lose a little of their ells.
Though “vidth and visdom” mostly go together,
The elder Weller’s firm belief to cite,
It’s definitely arguable whether
The same applies to intellect and height.
A uniformed Goliath, vast, impressive,
May strike the proletariat with awe,
Reminding those inclined to be aggressive
Of all the might and majesty of Law.
But what will it avail a bobby’s build
Unless his belfry’s adequately filled?
Ah, when it comes to clashes and to clinches
With burly crooks or brawlers in the street,
Be sure that nimble wits are more than inches
And savoir faire than massive legs and feet.
Cease then from ruefully assuming that you’re
From a career constabulary barred
Because you cannot register the stature
That used to be required at Scotland Yard.
The barrier’s lowered. A chap may crash the
gate
Henceforth and pace a beat at five-foot-eight.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
9
10
for
6
20
for
D 382
«
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
wmm
y <
wm
1
m
m
...
ri
I
THE
CORK
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
O F
THIS G E
TION
POLITICAL POINTS
The cause of world peace has been ad-
vanced by “S. M. Herald’s” agonised
admission that “the League of Nations
covenant is now but a museum relic.”
There was always a haunting fear that
“Granny” would declare war on coun-
tries refusing to accept the covenant as
“the cornerstone” of their “foreign
policy,” as it is of Mr. Eden’s.
It is on record that the Westralian
Government buried a rabbit-fence
boundary-rider and charged it up to
Development of Agriculture, Loan Ac-
count. Judging by an Auditor-General’s
list, the Stevens Government is doing a
lot of things like that. In 1936-37, a
courthouse bathroom (£44 95.), a police-
station bath-heater (£l5 3s. 2d.), a
bubbler drinking tap (£ll 4s. 7d.), tele-
phonettes for the Western Lands Board
(£lO 15s. 6d.), a burglar alarm for the
museum (£7O), “additional lavatory
Brush Farm Home” (£5O 14s. Bd.) and
“lockers in ladies’ rooms” (£36) were
paid for out of the current loan. The
lockers in ladies’ rooms were Child Wel-
fare ; the telephonettes and the “addi-
tional lavatory,” Promotion of Agricul-
ture. *
Melbourne “Age,” snorting at the latest
development of Stevens’s tricky plan for
raising more loans through local authori-
ties, recalled “a remark made at a meet-
ing of the Loan Council.”
There are two Lang policies in New South
Wales, that preached by Lang and that
practised by Stevens.
One of Bob’s bright sayings, no doubt.
Anyway, it’s true.
Coming after the sending of Lord
Halifax to Germany, the appointment of
Sir Robert Vansittart as Chief Diplo-
matic Adviser to the Foreign Office sug-
gests that Mr. Eden is impervious to
hints even when they are heaved at him.
Apropos, the young gentleman recently
posed for a photographer at a night
club. For a much greater personage
than Anthony that was the beginning of
the end.
Has Australia one Egg Marketing
Board at which its clients haven’t, in a
sense, hurled everything but the eggs?
In Queensland the other day, as in Syd-
ney a couple of months ago, the chair-
man of the Egg Board was downed at
an Egg Board election. He had been a
member since the beginning, 10 years
ago, and chairman for seven years. Two
other members were defeated with him.
One, curiously enough, was the leader
of the malcontents, whose case against
Egg Board policy is, in effect, that mar-
keting costs are 25 p.c. of country de-
liveries and 20 p.c. of metropolitan
deliveries.
Lady Apsley, who “journeyed over”
the Northern Territory in 1925, tells the
world through the “Times” that “while
Australian policy prevents the import of
reasonably cheap labor any sort of
enterprise is becoming economically im-
possible.”
Dare one suggest the settling of picked
migrants from India or the making of part
of the North a haven for Maltese and
Assyrians?
If One is a lady, One may suggest any-
thing. But One wouldn’t have to defend
and police the “haven.” One would
take good care to keep 9000 miles away
from it.
Tasmania reports that the tourist trade
was exceptionally brisk in 1937 and that,
for the first time for six years, there was
a net gain of population by migration.
Adding natural increase there were 3380
more persons in the Speck at the end of
the year. It doesn’t sound much, but it
will be sufficient for Dwyer-Gray to
demand an addition of £338,000 to the
special grant from the cormorant Com-
monwealth.
U.S. revenue for 1938-39 is expected to
be down $401,000,000 because of what
the New Deal President blithely calls
“the business recession.” The deficit—
which includes loans —is reckoned in ad-
vance at $950,000,000 and gross public
debt at $38,528,000,000. The gross public
debt was $20,936,000,000 when Roosevelt
entered the White House, and financial
critics among his own party have said
that his estimate is too low.
Forgan Smith has a good while to go
yet before he attains his admitted ambi-
tion of holding the Queensland Premier-
ship for a longer period than any other
“How am I doin', Mr. Stage Manager?”
“Doin’? You look like doin' your job”
man. He has already beaten Theodore’s
five years and four months, but Griffith
was Premier for seven years and two
months. In these uncertain days, lots of
things may happen in 18 months, par-
ticularly with an election intervening.
But even the Opposition admits that, if
Labor is to continue for another term,
the sensible, practical Scot is the best
man in sight.
By arrangement with the Foreign
Office, 8.8. C. is broadcasting news and
music to the Arab world. It is a natural
reply to the Italians, who began it, but a
“Times” correspondent in Palestine
morosely reports that one of the first
items of intelligence sent over was devoted
to the scragging of an Arab who had been
caught taking potshots at Jews. Misfor-
tune pursues every activity with which
Anthony Eden is connected, even in-
directly or remotely.
Einstein, Bertrand Russell, Romain
Rolland and John Dewey have carried
their demand for a boycott of Japanese
goods from U.S.A. to Britain, and added
a clause to the effect that “every possible
help should be given to China for relief
and self-defence.” It is understood “on
unimpeachable authority” that the fiery
old boys have stipulated that the hottest
place in the front line must be reserved
for them. Einstein is 58, Russell 66,
Rolland 72 and Dewey 78.
Young Mr. Reddaway, whose “econo-
mic theories” were “accepted by the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court” six
months ago, is not now in a position to
study the fruits at first hand. However,
the Sydney “D.T.,” which made much
of Mr. R., admits that events have justi-
fied “the gloomy prophets who predicted
that increased living costs would more
than offset benefits to the wage-earners —
unfortunately their predictions have been
to a great extent fulfilled.”
The “new” “D.T.” has its candid
moments. On the first page of its Satur-
day Turf Guide it prints a moneylender’s
ad. On another page it gives a full and
particular account of what punters would
have lost by putting a pound on each of
its tips and those of its reptile contem-
poraries since August 1. Some day it
may even confess that it was wrong when
it exuberantly declared that Roosevelt
had come out for “positive action against
Japan” and that Australia must be in
it up to the neck.
A blizzard seems to have blown away
the battle of Teruel, though Valencia and
Barcelona report the complete occupa-
tion of the town 19 days after the first
complete occupation. As evidence
they announce the capture of a bishop.
Both sides have been bringing up
reinforcements. The Reds have been
joined - presumably at a safe dis-
tance and on the usual terms, all ex-
penses paid—by nine British Labor
members, among them Emanuel Shinwell,
Sammy Silverman and Georgie Strauss.
Reviewing the events of 1937, an
Adelaide “Advertiser” man applies the
term “historic pronouncement” to Lyons’s
agitated assurance that “so long as I
am P.M. there will definitely be no
conscription in Australia.” Pronounce-
ments as historic have been made by
startled seagulls.
There was, it seems, an epoch-marking
sequel to Lyons’s pledge, made in abys-
mal ignorance of the Defence Acts, that
he would never, never call “deep thinkers”
to the colors —the
subsequent statement of Dame Enid
Lyons that if she thought the Govern-
ment which her husband led so much as
contemplated conscription she would not
hesitate to vote against it.
This, it is alleged, “further paved the way
for a Government victory.” It is interest-
ing reading for the 75 per cent, of U.A.P.
and U.C.P. supporters who were con-
scriptionists in 1916 and 1917.
Edgar Snow, who wrote a book on the
Chiang Kai-sheks and their Communist
associates, has related the “Inside Story of
China’s United Front Against Japan” for
the “Saturday Evening Post.” He says
Red China is a large place (he spent
nearly four months in it), and has “a
huge Red following outside the Soviet
boundary” ; and he quotes a Red leader
as saying that a triumph for the Com-
munists and the Kuomintang would be
“part of the victory of world Com-
munism” :
If China wins its independence from
Japan, the world revolution will progress
very rapidly.
But the world revolution is still a distant
and gory dream.
In the Sydney Parliament on Novem-
ber 25, Premier Stevens declared that
the Monier pipeworks had been sold to
“an employees’ organisation.”
A young and virile organisation, the em-
bodiment of youthful energy, comprising
the whole of the employees.
It has come out that the rhapsodist rang
up the former supervising engineer, who
is managing director of the purchasing
co., and said “Did I go too far in saying
it was an employees’ organisation?” The
reply was, “Yes, you did.” It has trans-
pired also that the former s.e. was
“virile” enough to collect “£440 for leave,
£799 for compensation and £llOO for
superannuation” on his own account,
and to .bespeak £BO4 for “operatives,”
representing “three weeks’ leave and
overtime.”
There must have been loud laughter
in the N.S.W. Government departments
when it was suggested that the pipeworks
man who signed the voucher for pay-
ment of £BO4 to employees for leave and
overtime had broken a rule limiting such
“authorisations” to £250, except in the
case of a Minister. That rule is one of
the merry jests of the service. In point
of fact, gentlemen running financially-
embarassed Government concerns have
given themselves paid holidays abroad
and awarded their personal staffs massive
rises, and charged it all up to the tax-
payers. There is a still older rule which
forbids the expenditure of public money
without the sanction of Parliament. It
has been broken by Ministers in scores
of cases, as any A.-G. could testify.
John Spence’s summary of the N. S.
Wales Government railway accounts is
that, on the department’s own showing,
expenditure has exceeded earnings by
£30,443,500 in 12 years. But he warns
the public annually that “operating ex-
penses are understated to the extent that
insufficient provision has been made for
depreciation, and have been temporarily
relieved by loan expenditure,” and that
“the cost of certain assets abandoned
and scrapped has not been charged to
revenue.” He gives a list of abandoned
assets “still included in fixed assets,”
the amount being £1,718,700.


'' D»S PFEU£R, COOK-OUSE CSOOR
ALARUMS AND EXCURSIONS.
“It is proposed that myall abos., with their bush-telegraph system, be co-opted in the defence of Northern, Australia.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, St)til'd AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 110 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
long ENGINE LIFE
DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
y
O
-YOU CAN DEPEND
£
r<=
iPA£
, jilV lje n j/ltK
'>’o,lo^
. Champions
Experience shows that an engine kept free from faulty
ignition is sure to last longer and give better and more
economical service. Profit from the experience of
others install new Champions every year.
An Empire product made in Windsor, Canada
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
34
PERSONAL ITEMS
H. J. Piper, who joins the Federal
Arbitration Court Bench at 43, was born
into a legal atmosphere. His father was
on the Supreme Court Bench, and after
young Piper had passed through Adel-
aide’s Prince Alfred College he followed
in the parental footsteps. He was called
to the Bar in 1915, but served with the
A.I.F. till 1919. He was chairman of
the S.A. legal committee on lotteries,
and he lectures at Adelaide Uni.
With the end of the University year,
Adelaide lost, by retirement, Robert
Chapman, one of Australia’s foremost
engineers. He was the first and only holder
of its Professorship of Engineering, and
had completed 50 years of service. Yet
as a youngster he had a noteworthy
career at Melbourne before moving to
S.A. The Kernot and Russell medals,
also a knighthood, have come his way ;
his son is Chief Engineer of S.A. rail-
ways.
John Delappe Lankester, 100 last Sep-
tember, couldn’t stand more than 89
years’ contact with the Australian climate.
Founder of the wine industry in the
Albury (N.S.W.) district, he died last
week, leaving five sons, three daughters,
16 grandchildren and 18 great-grand-
children.
There is a look about Louis John Smitt
as if he had found life one long haka.
Hence Frith’s drawing, but L.J. is Mel-
bourne-born and was captured by Maori-
land after he had been trained in the
Victorian Railways and Zinc Corpora-
tion offices as an accountant. He was
appointed investigating officer to the
N.Z. Board of Trade, did a lot of work
in connection with the British Empire
Exhibition and spent six years in Aus-
tralia as M.L. Tourist Commissioner
before returning to Wellington to become
An Adopted Maorilander.
g.m. of the Industry and Commerce
Dept. He is at present in Australia on
furlough.
Howard D’Egville, who is on his way
to Australia, is the secretary-founder of
the Empire Parliamentary Association
which has given so many Australian poli-
ticians chances of trips abroad. Once a
Treasury counsel on the Midland Cir-
cuit, and a member of the War Cabinet
secretariat during the war, he has devoted
most of the post-war years to the
association and to travel. As a compli-
ment to his services he was called to
the N. S. Wales Bar many years ago, and
was knighted in 1920. His office is in
probably the oldest office building in the
world —Westminster Hall, built by Wil-
liam Rufus in the eleventh century.
Before he died recently, at 85, Alex-
ander Morrison, a hardy Scot who ar-
rived in Victoria in his birth year, was
the oldest living pioneer of the Wyche-
proof district. He and his brother moved
to the north of the State in 1874, hand-
cleared five acres and put the first Mallee
land east of Warracknabeal under wheat.
They built up a prosperous wool and
wheat property in the bullock-dray days.
O. R. Gayford, Wing-Commander,
R.A.F., in charge of the Vickers Wel-
leslys coming to Australia for this year’s
celebrations, is no stranger to bombers.
He served during the war in the Eastern
Mediterranean, being second in command
early in 1918 of 62nd Wing’s squadron
stationed at Stavros, and headed many a
night raid over Constantinople from the
base at Mudros. The year 1919 found
him with 221 Squadron R.A.F. on the
Caspian assisting Denikin. Four years ago
he made a record non-stop flight in a
Fairey from Cranwell, Lines, to Cape
Town. A stranger to Australia, he’ll find
an old war comrade waiting to welcome
him— The Bulletin’s radio editor, Don
B. Knock, who filled Lewis drums and
loaded bomb racks for„Gayford through-
out his R.N.A.S. service.
Dead in Brisbane at 37, Leslie Wylie
Norman Gibson, orthopaedic surgeon to
the Children’s Hospital. Gibson was edu-
cated at Brisbane Grammar School and
Sydney University, graduated in medicine
in 1926 and returned to Brisbane as
house surgeon at the General Hospital.
Then he went to England to study at the
Liverpool School of Orthopaedics under
the picturesque Robert Jones. Both Jones
and his successor, McMurray, looked on
young Gibson as a star pupil, and he re-
fused tempting offers in England before
returning to Brisbane, where he did great
work during the 1931-32 infantile-
paralysis epidemic. He was secretary to
the State post-graduate medical com-
mittee and to the 8.M.A., which he repre-
sented on the Kenny Commission —the
report was published after his death. He
leaves a young wife; and Brisbane’s
crippled children have just reason to
mourn him.
An almost forgotten Governor: —-
This month marks the centenary of the
arrival in Tasmania of John Franklin, the
explorer, who for six years was Governor of
Van Diemen’s Land. When he arrived, Frank-
lin was 50. He had been an F.R.S. and had
had other honors showered on him for his
services to exploration. He had fought at
Trafalgar on the Bellerophon, the ship on
which Napoleon was afterwards a prisoner.
But one of his greatest sources of pride was
that he was a cousin of Matthew Flinders.
He founded the Tasmanian Royal Society, and
paid its expenses while he remained in office.
Hobart remembered him with a statue, and the
Speck subscribed £l7OO to support his in-
trepid wife’s search for him when he was lost
while looking for the North-west Passage.
Franklin died on June 11, 1848, after discover-
ing the passage.
The Last Post has sounded for Reg
Plant, member of the original 15th Bat-
talion, who has been ill in St. Martin’s
Hospital, Brisbane, for some months.
Reg was the only Queensland member of
the King’s Guard of Honor at the
Coronation of George V. He went to
India on exchange, but dropped his com-
mission to join in the Great War as a non.-
com. It wasn’t long before he gained cap-
tain’s rank. A loyal friend, with a fine
sense of humor, Reg Plant was one of the
many Diggers who came back from the
mix-up with his death warrant. A bullet .
penetrated his lung at Gallipoli, and re-
sisted all attempts at removal. Two
brothers, both noted rifleshots, were in
that dust-up: one was killed in France
and the other holds a commission in the
permanent forces.
Bishop John Taylor Smith, one of the
few ecclesiastics to hold a K.C.8., at 77
is virile, active and kindly, a true old-
type missionary bishop of the Victorian
vintage. At 30 he went out as sub-
A Missionary Bishop.
dean of the cathedral at Freetown,
Sierra Leone (W. Africa). There fol-
lowed seven years’ missionary work in
the plague spots of the Gold Coast, with
an interlude as chaplain to the Ashanti
field force, in which Baden-Powell com-
manded the native levies, in 1895. Four
years as Bishop of Sierra Leone fol-
lowed, after Queen Victoria had made
Smith one of her honorary chaplains. In
1901 he became chaplain-general to the
British Army, and held that office till
1925, when he retired to wander about
the world.
F. J. Mills, funmaker and philan-
thropist, has struck a streak of bad luck
in Adelaide, but his friends are not for-
getting him. Mills has for years done
much serious work for the “Cheer-up”
and “Wattle” societies of S.A. and has
been untiring as a hospital visitor, hav-
ing an especial way with children. As
“The Twinkler,” he has published several
books of his peculiar brand of humor ;
one of them sold 30,000 copies for the
R.S.A. And he ran a Twinkler Boys’
Club till ill-health got him.
Charles McCann, S.A.’s new knight,
had 10 years’ experience in Argentina
just after the war as manager of a meat
co. Before that, he was manager of the
Produce Department in Port Adelaide
and Trade Commissioner in London.
Afterwards he was T.C. again, and finally
Agent-General, with all his knowledge of
Australia’s chief rival in the meat trade.
“Sailor Once” remembers some old sea
dogs:—
Recently promoted (and retired) Vice-
Admiral Clinton F. S. Danby returned to Eng-
■ land as a midshipman in 1900, when Rear-
Admiral H. L. Pearson struck his flag on the
Australian station. Danby’s last job on the
active list was Admiral-Superintendent, Chatham
Dockyard. Two other youngsters who left
Sydney at the same time as Danby also
attained flag-rank—James and Dannreuter. The
latter served in Sturdee’s flagship at Falkland
Isles, and was one of two officers saved when
the Indefatigable was blown to smithereens
at Jutland.
Dead in his prime G. H. Wilson, one
of the most popular of Queensland
schoolteachers, who began his career at
the old Normal School in
Brisbane in 1900 and inter-
rupted it to enlist in the
31st Battalion in 1915. He
was commissioned in Cairo
and won the Military Cross
when he and his company
captured the only 16in. gun
brought to Australia—for
some time it stood outside
Sydney Central Station and
is now in Canberra. For
14 years before his death
he had been principal of
Charters Towers State high
school.
W. B. Hay, the new pre-
sident of the Queensland
A. has done practi-
cally every class of work
covered by union awards,
from canecutting to digging
up roads. He first took a
part in industrial organisa-
tion in 1909, when he be-
came a delegate from the
field hands in the Childers
sugar district. In 1924 he
was appointed a union
organiser, acting for the
union on the Queensland
Cotton Board, and gradu-
ally rose to be northern dis-
trict secretary in 1935.
Retired after 42 years’
service with the Townsville
Harbor Board, Captain
Frederick William Torr,
dredge master. Torr landed
in Queensland from Devon-
shire 54 years ago, and after
four years of dairying, min-
ing and bush work joined
B. at Townsville. On the
State Government barge Nautilus he had
a short spell of work in the Brisbane
River before returning north as one of
the crew of the dredge Octopus, then
engaged in setting out the Townsville
Harbor. In 1929 he was appointed
master of the bucket dredge Cleveland.
“El V.”: One of the plums of the
newspaper world has fallen to the curi-
ously-named Chris Shotter Kent, who
succeeds Lints Smith as manager of
London “Times.” Chris Shotter Kent has
been with the old paper a good many
years. He was one of the British military
mission to the U.S.A. during the war, and
in 1918 became financial controller of
the Department of Propaganda to
Enemy Countries.
Passed over in Sydney, Captain J. R.
Macdonald, who joined the Duke of
Edinburgh’s (volunteer) Highlanders 70
years ago, and was the last remaining
officer of W. B. Dailey’s Sudan Contin-
gent.
Dead in Maoriland, Wybrants Olphert,
who was educated on H.M.S. Worcester,
and in 1895, at 26, took a job with the
N.Z. -Shipping, of which he became
marine superintendent. In 1914 he was
called up for service with the R.N.R.,
and in 1917, while in command of a
“Q” ship, was torpedoed and sent to
Germany as a prisoner, but not before
he had won the D.S.C. and D.S.O.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O'CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; .T. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO YEARS*
FREE SETTING
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. All
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/G
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle .!!. 15/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle .. 21/-
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, to fit f and J blades, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney
SMOKE-OH!
A man may get well oiled, but it
doesn’t follow that there’ll be no friction.
b b b b
“She had those appealing eyes, appealing
lips and an appealing disposition.”
—Short story.
In fact, the only unattractive thing
about her was a peeling back.
b b b b
“Whatever else is sacrificed, for heaven’s sake
keep your Parliaments for the generations that
are to follow you.”
— N.S.W. Deputy-Premier Bruxner.
Hear, hear! Why should we have to
do all the suffering?
b b b b
Though the Judge said he was going
to be lenient with a man charged with
bigamy, the poor fellow was allowed to
go free.
b b
“A Sydney University lecturer in psychology
asserts that a modern girl’s clothes are like
dishcloths.”
Woe betide him if a modern girl ever
finds out what a dishcloth looks like.
b b b b
“The [loyalist] troops broke through, then
deployed from Tortajadas... .to Campillo,
which had been aerially reconnoitred from the
air.”— “Sun.”
This staff work is vastly superior to
that of the rebels, who are forced to use
submarines for their aerial reconnais-
sance.
b b b b
Wheels Within Wheels.
“The company’s object, which was to place
a new machine on the market, was a signal
failure.” — Financial item.
Things didn’t run smoothly. The man-
ager soon revealed that he had a screw
loose, and didn’t know when to put the
brakes on expenses, and although the
directors were big noises the public
wouldn’t regard it as a sound investment.
Then the accountant fell for one of
the typistes and wouldn’t lever alone.
In fact, he went so nutty on her that he
bolted.
This threw a spanner into the works,
and there followed an internal combus-
tion. The manager got hot after much
friction and was fired. The directors
then proceeded to get well oiled, and
everything went completely out of gear.
It had to be wound up eventually.
Nat.
“The landlady, speechless with rage, led the
couple up the curving staircase to the second
floooor.” — Short story.
She couldn’t even say “O”—the comps,
had used them all.
New Style.
“Nowadays we wholeheartedly condemn our
ancestors for torturing each other with thumb-
screws, spiked collars, racks and other inhuman
appliances.”— Historical essay.
’Tis true, we blame our ancestry
For causing direful woes,
But isn’t this hypocrisy
When we have radios?
Nat.
*l* b b b
“In the west, the southerly is forgetting its
timidity and is mustering for an attack on
Sydney.”— “Sun.”
As Sydneysiders are notably fussy as
to the direction their southerlies come
from, this timidity is obviously based on
anxiety as to the reception a southerly
would get coming from the west.
b b b b
“Accused was sentenced to seven years’ pedal
servitude.” — “Age.”
Not that that made him get off his
bike!
b b b b
“The school principal was a small, fussy
man whose study table invariably held a large
boil of flowers.” — “Telegraph.”
Another boil that came to a Head.
“Thank you, sir!”
“Here in the laboratory Carl was the scientist,
immersed in his work as he moved about a
queer world of test tubes, copper coils, gleam-
ing porcelain tables and stinks.” — Short story.
Exactly!
' b b b b
Breeding Helicopters.
“A technical journal describes the helicopter
as ‘a cross between a bicycle and a windmill.’ ”
Helicopters are a species of mammalia
which have their breeding grounds in
warm sunny spots away from the haunts
of men and other animals. When Mr.
Darwin arranged for the evolution of
carnivorous animals and manivorous
fish from human beings, he found that
helicopters refused to evolute. They
have since been produced by crossing.
Crossing has long been recognised as
a scientific method of producing any-
thing at all which has never existed and
never should have: e.g., the crossing of a
loaf of stale bread with a mincing-
machine produces a pork sausage.
Thus it is that at some breeding
grounds of helicopters you will find
whole droves of bicycles—themselves a
cross between a biped and a tired fly-
wheel. The bicycles are taken from
selected stock, and should be at least
10 years old ; the windmills should be of
a tall, spare habit.
The resulting young helicopters will be
born with their eyes shut. But they will
immediately be able to flutter heaven-
wards at the perpendicular, the same as a
ball of thistledown or a downy chicken,
and be able to hover like the ostrich, or
go head first or tail last like a French
fowl. And they can drop like the gentle
ton of bricks on the place beneath,
where you will find a litter of unformed
helicopters.
Dinornis.
b b b b
Locally Adapted.
“Mechanical barmen will soon be available
in London streets, worked on the coin-in-the-
slot principle.”— Adelaide “Chronicle.”
The salesman invited his client to have
a sample.
“But,” objected the prospect as he
sipped his beer, “this idea may be all
right in civilised parts, but how are we
going to instal them out here, with six-
o’clock closing and all that to contend
with?”
“Just a few simpfe improvements. You
see me setting this interior clock for six-
twenty. Now put a zack in!”
The prospect did so, and a hollow
mechanical voice blared as the sixpence
fell into a cup “Time, gentlemen,
please!”
“And if the customer tries to force a
beer out?”
“Try it!”
Inside a second, long mechanical arms
reached out and threw the prospect out
. .
of his own office. He entered, wiping
the dust from his trousers.
“I don’t care for the improvements,” he
confessed, “but the original machine
should go jike hot cakes for home in-
stallations.” -
Cloon.
•fr * *
Some Little-known Facts About
India
I-—General Knowledge.
India, or Gandhiland, is a large area
of jungles, palaces, temples, polo grounds
and barracks, so crowded that there isn't
sufficient room for everyone on the land,
several millions being compelled to stand
up in the rivers. The rivers are also
used to wash away the sins of the in-
habitants. After they have had a par-
ticularly wild and sinful time cursing the
British Raj, smoking opium and watch-
ing the nautch girls dancing, the Ganges
—to which they repair to perform their
sin ablutions—is reminiscent of Bondi
beach on a hot Sunday morning.
This arrangement suits the crocodiles
and also the restaurant keepers in the
near-by city of Benares. In slack times
when only one or two millions are stand-
ing up to their necks in the river, the
restaurants are able to put on only thin
soup. When a religious fervor hits the
natives, however, and a really big crowd
get in the river, rendering it murkier,
consomme heads the menu.
Next to getting bitten by cobras, tigers
and leopards, and being trampled under-
foot by wild elephants, the natiQnal
sports are walking on broken bottles and
hot coals, lying on beds composed of
iron spikes, trying to do the rope trick
and watching rajahs go by on platinum-
shod elephants.
One of the principal industries is the
capturing of the lac-insect. As a caste
the lac-insect gatherers are slightly
superior to the oil-seed treaders, but are
looked down upon with withering scorn
by the tea-bug biters. In fact, if the
shadow of a lac-insect gatherer falls
athwart a tea-bug biter, the latter im-
mediately purifies himself by lying prone
in the Ganges mud for a week.
The lac-insect gatherers use the same
method of snaring their prey as did their
forebears in the days of Genghis Khan.
The hunter attracts the insect to him
by painting his toenail a bright hue, at
the same time making a noise like an
unstirred tin of varnish. The insect,
recognising the affinity, is unable to
resist, and as it alights the hunter pins
it to his toenail through its thorax with
a dart fired from a gun.
Care has to be exercised to see that
the firing charge is not too strong, other-
wise the blowing off of his toe might
entail the loss of the insect to the hunter.
The “shell,” or outer covering, is then
peeled off the insect, resulting in the
shellac used in commerce.
The sixty million “Un-
touchables” are the real out-
casts, who, having failed to
cough up upon being “stung”
by the Beggars’ Union (mem-
bership 27,000,000), have
been declared black. As
they are already black, or
almost so, this doesn’t worry
the “Untouchables.”
The staple food of the
populace is millet. This has
been found more advanta-
geous than rice, as in time of
famine the peasantry can
live on the unused portion of
house brooms. Incidentally,
millet is the only known
provender that can also be
used as a toothpick.
The currency is based, in
order of coin value, on
rupees, annas and pies. The
pie, in common with that
familiar to Western civilisa-
tion, has this peculiarity: no-
body seems to know just
what it is made of. As it
takes nearly 200 pies to make
up the equivalent of a shil-
ling, suits consist of a large
pocket with a neckhole and
two armholes cut in it.
Carrying large sums of money around
is a hazardous undertaking, as witness
the tragic case of Swigallthe Ali Khan, a
Bengalee punter who had unpre-
cedentedly pushed back the books to the
tune of 3s. 6d. Paid in pies, he was
staggering home with his winnings when,
fording a creek, he disappeared under the
mud. That was in 1925, and the whole
population of Bengal has been assidu-
ously prospecting for Ali Khan ever
since.
The monsoons which sweep India with
a regularity that would make it possible
for the inhabitants to set their watches
by them if they had any render the main-
tenance of the forestry industry exceed-
ingly difficult. Especially is this so re-
garding timbers for cabinet-making, etc.,
where a straight grain is essential, since
for five months the “great” monsoon
blows from the south-west, while for the
next two months the “lesser” monsoon
blows from the opposite direction. These
tremendously strong winds blow the
growing trees first in one direction and
then in the other, which results in the
trunks growing corrugated like a marcel
wave.
In' an endeavor to overcome this dif-
ficulty Professor Mohammed Boob is
trying, by tying the saplings down to the
ground, to evolve a tree that will grow
horizontally, but so far he has met with
no success. s. k.
Bottled Banquet.
“Why not drink your lunch?” — “Woman.”
This, I submit, is fair advice.
When summer’s fever makes you
droop,
A gin and squash {or three) with ice
Is more refreshing, friends, than soup.
Next, humble beer {in lieu of steak ) —
Say, seven schooners —served with
sauce
Or seasoning of rum would make
An appetising second course.
Then whisky and lor English stout
Might follow, and it wouldn’t hurt
To top your lunch off with about
A quart of muscat for dessert.
And then return to work {if able),
Or merely slip beneath the table!
P.O.M.C.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Spare Archdeacon”: The trouble with
my parrot was that he couldn’t be induced
by his old-maid buyer to talk at all. The
curate suggested that his pet owl, if
placed in the cage with the parrot, might
move it to speech. The experiment was
made at the next mothers’ meeting.
Attention was riveted on the parrot’s
cage when the owl was introduced. For
a moment nothing happened. Then the
parrot, ruffling up its feathers, took a
step along the perch towards the shrink-
ing owl and said “I can dong you.”
Backing up as far as it could go the owl
could only reply “Whoo, whoo, whoo.”
“Who, who, who?” yelled the now in-
furiated parrot. “Why, you, you, you,
you flat-faced blankard ; you, you, you J”
* * * *
“Harry N.”: The Macquarie perch
is making a welcome reappearance in
Gippsland streams, and some good
specimens have been caught below the
weir on the Latrobe River at Yallourn
(Vic.). These fine fish were fairly plenti-
ful when I was a kid, but of latter years
have been extremely scarce, the intro-
duced trout being blamed for their dis-
appearance. We knew them as yellow-
bellies, and they put up a great fight
when hooked. They bite readily at almost
any sort of natural bait when hungry,
but the big white bardies and fat creamy
wattle-grubs are the titbits on their menu.
* * * #
“F.Y.7”: Beg to differ with the theory
of “Pangela” (B. 29/12/’37) that a
kangaroo can inflict only “a few small
scratches” with his foreclaws. Years ago
in Queensland one old man grabbed me
round the body from behind when I
was a bit slow at getting out of the way
after the done-up dogs had let him go
for a moment. I twisted myself out of
his grip in short order, leaving my shirt
behind, but with ribs deeply gashed on
each side by his claws. The scratches
bled enough to soak my only other re-
maining garment, and for years after,
especially in cold weather, the parallel
stars could be plainly seen.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Old Dan, my neighbor,
handed it to me. “How’s that for a bit
of leather?” he asked. “Skin of an old
buck wombat —good as any pig’s hide.
I’m making meself a pair of leggin’s
out of it.” I inquired how he skinned
it'. “Simple,” the old boy replied. “You
want a sharp knife, some waxed twine, a
hefty waddy and one of them motor-tyre
pumps. Hang the wombat up be the
hind legs, cut one of his forelegs off at
the first joint, stretch the skin of the leg
over the end as far as it’ll go, put the
hose of the pump inside it, lash it in
place with the twine, and start to pump.
The leg puffs up; then you lay into the
top part of the bulge with the waddy and
pump some more. You keep on blowing
until it looks as if the skin’ll bust and
whacking the bulge with the waddy until
the whole damn thing’s like a flamin’
great football. The rest is only a matter
of slittin’ in the right places and pullin’
the hide off. Beats me why people reckon
that a wombat is tough to skin.”
* * * *
“Fisher’s Ghost”: Who said there was
no intelligence required in fencing? We
let two separate contracts on our very
hilly property. With 700 chains each to
complete, both gangs went flat out. The
first contractor cut out four days before
the other. The trick was in hauling the
barbed wire. The stuff had to be brought
up by packhorse for the last three or
four miles and then dumped on the job
at suitable intervals. The speedy gang
then worked and strained their wire
downhill all the time, while the others
pulled their insides out heaving up the
grades. It was all due to missing the first
few panels when the first coil was
“That Would never ’ave ’appened if they’d installed our sprinkler system.”
dumped, necessitating working back-
wards, and everybody was too tired to
shift the last coil to second place and
carry on.
* * *
“See-’em”: We had drifted into the
station and camped for the night. In
the morning, as usual with bushies, we
wandered down to the yards, and were
intrigued to see among the station milkers
an enormous bullock with immense
hoopy horns turned up at the point. The
last of the pensioned-off working bul-
locks, he spent the evening of his life in
the self-imposed task of bailing up the
young milkers, and he did it efficiently
and without fuss. The heifer was
worked on to the outer rail by careful
manoeuvring, and then the big fellow
would gently prod her with his near
horn, working her into the bail and
standing guard until the cow boy in-
serted the pin. He would then back
away and rejoin the old milkers. Those
who have ever been to Old Cork on the
Diamantina (Q.) will recognise “Old
Sandy,” who performed this bit of bovine
intelligence.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Pictures and wireless
don’t seem to be robbing the outback
kid of any of his resourcefulness in emer-
gency. Leslie Heinemann, aged 11, was
riding his bike back to Quilpie (Q.)
from a sports meeting four miles out of
town. Taking a short cut, he met a ter-
rific duststorm, which blotted out all
visibility. He steered across country to
cut the railway line, reached it, but recog-
nised a bore drain which showed that
he had travelled 11 mile's away from the
town. Darkness came on, and he de-
cided to camp for the night on the
water. In order to ensure that he would
be wakened by any passing train, he
put mulga sticks across the rails so that
the noise of their cracking under the
wheels would arouse him. No train had
passed by daybreak. Removing the
sticks, he made along the line home-
wards, and ran into a search party who
had been looking for him all night. His
principal anxiety was whether dad would
rouse on him for getting lost. Reassured
by a thankful parent, he made light of
his 30-mile experience.
* * * *
“Angel”: The best shark-fishing I
know is with a kerosene-tin. Solder one
to make it watertight, put a bit of wire
round it so that it won’t slip, tie the hook
to that with a length of chain, bait it and
sling it out in the bay. If there are any
sharks about that will catch ’em. The
tin apparently attracts the lawyer. He
comes for a look, gulps at the tempting
bait —and there you are. It’s good sport,
too. At the first run, when he knows
he’s hooked, that shark will take the tin
for a dip below, but as its buoyancy
equals about a 401 b. pull the strain leads
the shark to the surface again. It doesn’t
give him a moment’s peace, and it will
drown him in a couple of hours or so —
provided that the flurry that bloke kicks
up doesn’t draw to the spot others of
his kind with cannibalistic intent.
•** * *
“Flight”: On the open plains out in
the Flinders country (W.Q.) I saw an
eagle diving at a turkey. The turk. was
standing in the grass. After a bit, un-
able to steady his nerves, he took to the
air. That, I thought, was what the eagle
was after —I’d seen one tackle a turkey
and kill it in the air previously. But I
was wrong. The eagle shepherded that
turkey in flight, worked him as a dog
might handle sheep, and drove him down
to the ground again. While both were
flying the eagle just wouldn’t get close
enough to do a darned thing. As soon
as the turk. landed the eagle started
swinging in loops, taking aim and diving
straight at his head. The long-necked
bloke, crouching in the grass, dodged like
a snake when the eagle was hissing at his
head. That suited the eagle—he had a
sitting shot at his tucker. The turkey
stood up again, and, being forced into
the air, was again shepherded to the
ground half a mile or so farther on. The
last I saw of them was when they were
specks in the distance, with the turkey,
knowing how the game was being played,
still refusing to go to earth and make a
target of himself.
* * * *
“Langshan”: Why not enlist the aid
of the single-flowered oleander {Nerium)
against the blowfly? This hardy and
heavy-blooming shrub grows from 6ft.
to 12ft. high and flourishes in any cli-
mate. It flowers profusely through the
summer and possesses a fatal attraction
for blowflies, thousands of which perish
in the peculiarly-scented blooms. Though
it’s said to have poisonous properties, the
stock in our N.Q. district have had free
access to it for years, and no deaths
have occurred.
$ * * *
“Salmon Gums”: The shag or cor-
morant the world’s diver par excellence ?
Not a bit of it! That title goes to the
dabchick. Scare a shag and it’s an even-
money bet he’ll rise. A dabchick in-
variably dives, and he’ll stay under
longer and travel further than the shag.
As a lad I shared with every other
country boy the belief that they dive at
the flash of the gun and are safely under
before the shot arrives.
* * * *
“Stralia”: No need to go to the
trouble of rigging hammocks or other
contraptions when spending the night on
the back beach of Phillip Island (Vic.).
Simply spread a blanket or two over one
of the larger cottonbushes growing in
profusion about the cliffs and you’ve a
bed the finest mattress of eiderdown
couldn’t excel. Dense and large and of
a whitish-grey color, the cottons are
apparently a species of saltbush.
* * * *
“Physalia”: The Portuguese man-o’-
war, or, in the vernacular, variously ad-
jectival bluebottle, has brought tribula-
tion to many holiday-makers on Queens-
land beaches lately, but so far without
fatality or really serious results. Four
deaths have been recorded from its
stings in the last 30 years, three of them
children, one a lad of 19. It is also
credited with more than one sudden col-
lapse among surf swimmers, with resul-
tant drowning. The stinging cells are in
groups along the tentacles which hang
from the bright blue —or occasionally
orange—float. The tentacles average
from 10ft. to 20ft. long, but may reach'
50ft. in large specimens. The coiled
stinging-filaments are barbed, and when
touched cling to the skin, inserting the
poison of the cell content and causing
acute pain. Best first-aid is to rub the
stung part briskly with sand, preferably
dry, to break up the filaments and reduce
the amount of absorbed poison. Dilute
liquid ammonia, methylated spirit or the
domestic bluebag will soon mitigate the
pain once this is done.
* * * *
“Claremont”: The newchum’s horror
of snakes was brought home forcibly to
me in W.A. when to our bush property
came a nurse “straight off the boat.”
One of her duties was to take the young-
sters for a walk beforq breakfast, and I
noticed her on several mornings sitting in
a small fowl run enclosed with 2in.-mesh
wire-netting. On my remarking that the
children weren’t getting much exercise
that way, she confessed that she always
sought that enclosure, feeling sure that
the snakes which she had heard about
could not possibly reach her through
the netting. When I had recovered from
my astonishment it occurred to me for
the first time that if the average Aussie
had actually to cope with snakes of the
girth this frightened girl imagined them
to possess—well, he’d be windy, too.
I’ve done a bit of leg-pulling myself where
new arrivals are concerned, and no doubt
some of the jokers aboardship have many
newchums scared stiff by the time they
reach Fremantle.
* * * *
“W. Gray”: One of the young rousies
6ame dashing in one day, dead-white and
nearly done, and blurted out that a
snake’s head was after him. When we’d
restored him to normal he explained
that he’d shot a wriggler in half and was
just going to finish off the forepart when
it turned on him and chased him home.
He swore there was only 6in. of body
adhering to the head. For a while we
were sceptical, but when we went to col-
lect his gun later and found the hind
parts of the reptile in the prescribed
place, we began to have doubts or
rather beliefs.
CANINE INTELLIGENCE.
“I see in The Bulleteen lately,” said Jed,
“that they’re maggin’ a lot
(Though they’re Collins-street bushies most
likely) about what clever dorgs that they’ve
got.
Now this bloke of mine ’ere’s a corker, though
’e’s gettin’ near too old to growl;
Ain’t yer, feller?” and Ted, with affection,
pulled its ears till the tyke gave a howl.
“Now, I’ll on’y just quote yer one instance
of the sort of a dorg that ’e is:
Years ago I was trackin’ a sheilah —yairs, I’d
fell pretty ’ard for ’er phiz,
well, she’d not long lobbed back from the
city, but I can’t go an’ see ’er just then,
What with havin’ to do all ’and-feedin’ an’
porkers galore in the pen.
“So I rakes up a nice bunch o’ flowers. Then,
strike me, I scribbles a note!
I’m feelin’ a bit sentimental, an’ also a bit of
a goat,
When I tells ’er that these ’ad reminded me of
’er; and then to the ’ound
I gives both the flowers an’ the letter, an’ on
Tiger goes with a Found.
“But, blimey! the next time I seen ’er she's
stinkpots a treat —wouldn’t speak;
An’ the next thing I ’ear is she’s married Jim
Jackson from over the creek.
Yairs. I did git the strong of it later. It
seems that me dorg must’ve dumped
The flowers, substitutin’ two plucked ’ens ’e’d
pinched from the kitchen an’ lumped.
“Y’see, that there tyke ’ad a instinct she
wouldn’t suit me for a wife
(’E was right, top. She’s turned out a tartar,
leadin’ poor Jim a hell of a life).
An’ ’e knew that them fowls that’s defeathered
would soon lead to me gettin’ chucked,
F’r the shrewd cow ’ad noticed (I ’adn’t) that
’er eyebrows ’ad lately been plucked!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“Ellenvale”: A mild stir was caused in
our district by a settler’s wife who packed
up her gear and departed citywards,
leaving her lord lamenting in his bark-
and-sapling hut without mod. cons, and
25 miles from the railway. He seemed
more puzzled than hurt when he showed
us the note in which his fed-up spouse
said she had had enough of loneliness
and rural life in general. “Can’t under-
stand it,” he said sadly. “ ’Course, she
never saw nobody much, an’ I never took
her to the township—a man can’t be
always draggin’ women round with him —
but she never done too bad. Dammitall
—didn’t I take her out ringbarkin’ with
me once a week reg’lar?” Women are
never satisfied!
* * * *
“McAroni”: Frequenter of lonely
swamps and marshes in the heath country
of northern N.S.W. and S.Q., the jabiru
is the only member of the stork tribe
native to Australia. Unlike most of its
cousins, it is non-migratory. About 4ft.
high on its long red legs, it presents a
striking appearance. The head, neck,
wings and great strong beak are black,
the rest of the body white, but the head
and neck have beautiful iridescent sheens
of blue, green and purple. The fowl is
very shy and difficult to stalk ; I’ve crept
through a freezing lagoon time after
time in a vain attempt to photograph one
on its nest. Strangely, the bird is in-
capable of uttering the faintest sound.
According to the abos., it was once so
noisy and garrulous that its voice was
taken from it altogether, so that the
other birds would get some peace.
* * *
“Skull Creek”: Something new in the
way of sundowners turned up at the
homestead last week. Complete with
swag, whiskers and bobbing hat corks,
“Do hold them there while I swim over and get my camera.
he added a novel touch by including a
golf-club carried just abaft of the tucker-
bag. One of the boys took him for a
round of our bush links, and although
the old chap didn’t break any course
records he seemed more grateful for the
game than for the extra tucker with
which he left next morning. He told us
that he learnt the game while caddying
tor the boss of an up-country station
and always carried his stick on the off-
chance of “gettin’ a smack” somewhere.
We’re thinking of training a couple of
polo ponies in case some wanderer
arrives with a polo stick and topee
attached to his drum.
* * * *
“Ballyhoo”: Nothing from Shanghai
during Christmas week outdid a mes-
sage from N.Q. This told how a valu-
able greyhound had
died “as the result of a
contest with” one of
the giant toads im-
ported some time ago
to combat the sugar-
cane beetle. The
Yellow Press rushed in
to explain that it-had
been opposed to the
introduction of the
ferocious brutes all the
time, and the C.S. and
I.R. made an ass of
itself by disclaiming
“all responsibility” for
the toads. Later infor-
mation showed that the
tin-hare mong, with
that inconsequence
which has so endeared
its type to owners of
pet cats and small
dogs, had tried to scoff
Buffo marinus. As a result it got a full
issue of the irritant secretion to be found
in the skin glands of all frogs and toads,
and found it too much for its constitu-
tion.
* * <« *
“K.L.”: ’Gators on the Fitzmaurice
River, N.T., must have scoffed a few
thousand head of cattle off Bradshaw’s
run during the last half-century. Present
manager patrols round in a small motor-
boat with fair-sized chunks of beef off
any scrubber. Well planted in each bait
is a large-sized tablet of corrosive subli-
mate in place of strychnine. The saurians
pass in their marbles no distance from
where they dine.
* * * *
“J.M.”: “Funny what cattle’ll eat,”
said old Tom. “When I was a half-axe, I
was feedin’ some big calves. Me ole man
had given me a boyproof watch the day
before; it ’ad no chain, so I carried it in
me shirt pocket. I was that proud of it I
had to have it with me all the time.
Well, the bloomin’ watch falls out of
my pocket into the hay, and one of them
calves swallowed it. Three years after
we kills that there calf for rations, and
I’m blowed if the watch wasn’t there in
its innards, still going, and only lost
about an hour in the three years. I
figured it that the watch was jambed in
the calf’s innards in such a way that
every time it chewed its cud the innards
touching the winder would move, and
kept it wound up.”
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: I nominate the goanna
as the most erratic dietitian in the bush.
I trapped one old man who had just
absorbed two new china eggs, and left
him imprisoned in the fowl-house whilst
from my verandah I watched with field-
glasses. Within five minutes the saurian
must have experienced some indisposi-
tion; he commenced gently to massage
his belly along a post, at the same time
forcing the lump denoting the spurious
henfruit on a mouthwards journey until
it was finally disgorged. Seeking to con-
firm what my eyes appeared to see, I
called a Binghi, who tolerantly caught
the go., and by deft finger manipulations
“milked” the remaining egg along an
upward journey until it, too, was
coughed up. I’ve left eggs filled with
cayenne pepper and mustard, and these
also have vanished with gos. who have
returned always to fresh plunder.
“Pint of metho., please”
“Sorry, lady — it's gone six”
“Burra”: I have often been puzzled
at seeing the kookaburra sitting on the
dry limb of a tree, turning his head to
one side, then diving to earth with a
smack that should have driven the base
of his bill right over his tail feathers. I
took a tumble to it the other day. Jacko
was eyeing the ground, and I knew by
the symptoms he was going to hit bottom
soon. I kept my lamps on the bit of
earth he was screwing so intently, but
couldn’t see a thing. Jacko did his stuff
—dived like a lunatic and hit the ground
with a thud. Then I saw what had
stirred him —a worm that was working
its way under the surface of the ground.
He pulled it out, a good six inches of
it, and, when he had flown back to his
tree, I examined for a foot or more the
subterranean track that
wriggler had made.
* * *
“Bolloween”: We were
on dinner camp, and the
sheep were quietly resting
in the river bend. I was
dozing, when down the
wind was borne a high-
pitched chant. Presently
round a bend of the road
the cause hove in sight. In
front strode Jacky, a shin
of beef in one fist and a
black bottle in the other.
A pace behind waddled
Mary, loaded to the Plim-
soll, with camp impedi-
menta, meanwhile keeping
up a whine which was evi-
dently a plea for a
swig out of the
bottle. When just
opposite where I sat
Jacky, fed up of
the crooning,
turned solemnly in
his tracks, swung
the beef-bone and
smote Mary a
clout under the lug,
cutting short the
melody and up-
ending her in the
dust of the road-
way. It was a
perfectly - delivered
pivot blow. Then,
without a back-
ward glance, the noble savage turned
once more and strode majestically on
his way, full of dignity and rum. Fully
expecting to be called as a witness at
the subsequent inquest, I hurriedly
rendered first-aid with the waterbag.
Presently Mary waggled her toes and
with a toothy grin sat up. I was so re-
lieved that when she put the acid on me
for “tickpence” I cheerfully handed over
a bob.
“5.8. H.”: The main street rang with
the beat of galloping hooves. A big
riderless bay, stirrups clanging and bridle
streaming in the wind, was closely pur-
sued by a frantic horseman on a fresh
chestnut. When they came abieast of
me the rider, with much cracking of his
stockwhip, succeeded in heading his
quarry off. Well, if it wasn’t Mike
O’Reilly, of Wooloomboola! The bay
pulled up on the pavement and stood
snorting, head held erect and mischief
in his eye. Mike dismounted in the
middle of the roadway, and with a
triumphant cry of “Got ’im!” blundered
across and made a lunge for the bridle.
The runaway was off like a shot from a
gun, his mane tearing through Mike’s
clutching fingers while the bridle-rein
jerked him headlong. The horse went pig-
rooting off back along the way it had
come, then settled into a steady gallop
and was lost' in a cloud of dust. The
victim picked himself up and looked for
his mount. That trusty steed had for-
gotten to stop. Entering into the spirit
of the thing he was drumming the flints
in a direction the exact opposite to that
taken by the bay. “You got ’im all right,
Mike,” I began ; then I decided to duck
round to the back entrance of the pub.
* * *
“Pop-stick”: Queer echoes, they’re
talking about. I was after goats on the
Whitsunday Islands (Q.) one day. It
was hot; I was tired ; I haven’t got a
darned thing in the larder. On a bit of
clear patch with a bluff the other side
of them were five goats of various ages.
I wanted the lot. I reckoned I’d only
have one shot. I made no mistake with
the first crack, but, s’elp me goodness,
instead of running away the other four
started to walk towards me! As Santa
Claus seemed to be doing his stuff I got
another. They still came to me, quicker
than before. I took a tumble, and got
the lot of them. After the last shot I
didn’t mind explaining the reason of the
acts. The bluff behind the goats had
caught the report of the rifle, tossed it
over the clump of trees on the other
side, sent it ringing round by some rocks,
rebounded off the sea and played merry
blazes generally. As rifles seemed to be
exploding all round them, the billies and
nannies didn’t know which way to turn
for Sunday. As luck had it, they came
towards dinner-time.
* * * *
“Centre”: Land snakes can look after
themselves no better than their water
brothers when it comes to negotiating
wire-netting fences. When boundary-
riding outback I’ve passed scores of them
black, tiger, carpet and others
trapped by trying to get back through
another mesh in the netting after crawling
half-way through the fence. Lizards of
all kinds are caught when trying to make
the passage after dinner ; they „ get as
far as where the tucker’s packed and
then come to a full stop ; having by that
time got their forelegs through, they are
there for keeps. In smaller-mesh netting
around the fish-pool I’ve found frogs
caught in the same manner.
THE FIRST BIRDS.
Pillow, bed and blanket scorning,
Fine it is to rise and go
When the first birds greet the morning
O’er lands lofty or lands low.
Highland tracks, or lowland, taking,
Fine it is to watch the trees
From their shadowed sleep awaking,
Shaken by the dewy breeze.
As the rounded sun mounts, soaring
Over peak and valley-wall,
Fine it is to see it pouring
Plenitude of light o’er all.
While the waking world rejoices,
Fine it is to hear and heed
Many voices, joyous voices,
From night’s thrall of silence freed.
Fine it is to hear them raising
Matin music to the sun —
Nature, gracious Nature, praising
For a golden day begun.
Pillow, bed and blanket scorning,
Fine it is to wander so
When the first birds greet the morning
O’er lands lofty or lands low.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


HAVE YOU RETIRED
from
Rusiness Activities?
If so, you may wish to be free from the worries
of investments, the collection of rents and in-
terest, or from the care and management of
real estate. The Trustees Executors and
Agency Company Limited, with nearly 60
years’ experience as Attorney and Agent can
be of invaluable assistance to you. Investigate
the possibilities by writing or calling upon
the Company at your convenience.
d
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
S» AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria, June 14, 1878)
(Registered in New South Wales, 1907)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA, NOW IN ITS 60th YEAR
OF SERVICE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £955,806.
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE • 1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0.,
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
W. D. Stewart. R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cvanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS. —Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS.—Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send < your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port ®
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London price*
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery, Port KemDia.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dalgety and Co., Ltd.
Ordinary Written off Re-
June, Profit. Dividends.* Premises, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 232,053 17 p.c. = 170,000 25,000 1,352,381
Premium on shares, £371,084 .. 1,723,465
1928.. 276,887 17 p.c. = 255,000 25,000 1,695,352
1929.. 337,590 17 „ ~255,000 25,000 1,727,942
1930.. 210,946 10 „ ~150,000 25,000 1,738,888
Inner reserves disclosed, £67,729 .. 1,806,617
1931.. 35,741 7 p.c. = 105,000 1,712,358
Inner reserves disclosed, £175,177 .. 1,887,535
Loss.
1932.. 131,070 5 p.c. = 75,000 1,656,465
Inner reserves disclosed, £61.908 .. 1,718,373
Profit.
1933.. 13,530 5 p.c. = 75,000 1,631,903
1934.. 97,575 5 „ „ 75,000 1,629,478
Inner reserves disclosed, £40,000 .. 1,669,478
1935.. 46,789 5 p.c. = 75,000 1,616,267
Exchange repayment debs., £100,000.. 1,516,267
1936.. 120,851 6 p.c. = 90,000 1,522,118
Exchange repayment debs., £40,000.. 1,482,118
1937.. 148,044 8 p.c. = 120,000 1,485,162
•The prefs. (5 p.c.) get £25,000 p.a.
The co. is the world’s largest wool-
seller. Headquarters are in London, and
there is a branch at Kenya, East Africa,
but most of the business, financed largely
on debenture money raised in London,
is done in Australia and Maoriland. It
was the rise in the price of wool that put
most of the spring in last year’s net earn-
ings, which were further assisted by ex-
panding turnover in the extensive mer-
chandise, shipping and general-agency
sections of the business. The number of
bales the co. put under the hammer in
Australia and Maoriland and the aver-
age auction price for the two countries
combined compare as follows:
Aus- Maori- Average per
tralia. land. Total. Bale.*
Bales sold—
-1928.. 366,056 105,785 471,841 £24 19 11
1930.. 400,761 84,262 485,023 13 2 2
1932.. 433,719 94,439 528,158 10 8 4
1933.. 480,919 115,401 596,320 10 16 7
1934.. 402,486 127,035 529,521 19 7 8
1935.. 489,113 92,946 582,059 12 4 5
1936.. 436,872 140.411 577,283 16 14 1
1937.. 442,202 125,247 567,449 21 0 4
♦Australasia.
In Australia the average per bale was
£2O 14s. 2d. (up £3 Is. lid.) and in
Maoriland £22 6s. Bd. (up £7 os. 3d.).
Also, the Australian average for wheat
(ss. 2.7 d.) was Is. 7d. a bushel better. The
only dull spot in the picture was con-
tinued drought in parts of Westralia,
chiefly the pastoral areas, where heavy
loss of livestock by clients compelled the
board “to make large reservations for
contingencies.”
After making whatever provisions were
considered necessary, gross earnings (up
£51,658) were the best since 1929, when
the figure reached a peak of £1,133,891:
1930. 1932. 1936. 1937.
Gross profits.. £927,222 £676,376 £885,754 £937,412
Salaries, etc... 440,128 674,781 503,499 515,688
Interest . . 139,209 161,494 173,016 161,369
Taxes .. 111,939 61,171 63,388 87,311
Total outgo. £691,276 £797,446 £739,903 £764,368
The growth of £12,189 in salaries, etc.,
was partly on account of converting over-
seas profits (£112,469, up £3874) into
sterling. There was a saving of £11,647
in interest, owing to repayment of
£292,854 of terminable debentures. The
exchange (£40,000) on remittances for this
repayment was charged direct to reserves.
The tax bill was £23,932 heavier. After
sending £25,000 (same as in the previous
term) to the staff fund, the amount avail-
able for shareholders was £27,193 better
at £148,044. This was enough to pay the
pref. div. (£25,000) and show 8.2 p.c. on
the £1,500,000 of ord. capital as against
6.3, 1.4, 4.8, two losses, and then profits
of 0.7, 12.3 and 24.1 p.c. back to 1929,
when exchange adjustment didn’t enter
into the picture. A couple of points
were added to the div., making it 8 p.c.
(equal to 6.4 p.c. after deducting British
income tax), as against 6 p.c. for the
previous term. However, to those on
the co.’s Australian register 6.4 p.c. is
worth 8 p.c. in local currency.
For the five months to the end of
November, the Australian average for
greasy wool was £l7 11s. Bd. as against
£lB 13s. lOd. for the corresponding
period of the previous season. Prices
strengthened a little during December,
thanks largely, to Japanese competition,
and stronger demand is expected to
keep the figure up in the New Year,
though the opening wasn’t auspicious.
During 1937 the co.’s £2O shares paid
to £5 fluctuated between £9 17s. and £l2
in the market. Last week-end the figure
was £lO Is. At this price the yield is 4
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The net
tangible cover is £9 19s. The well-
protected prefs. seldom come on to the
Australian market.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
Liabilities.
1932. 1936. 1937.
Capital .. .. £2,000,060 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Perpetual 4J p.c.. . 749,910 749,910 749,910
4 „.. 1,725,544 1,725,544 1,725,544
Redeemable 4£ p.c. 500,000 500,000 500,000
Terminable* . . 678,900 1,029,068 736,214
Sundry creditors, etc.t 2,327,590 2,423,571 3,009,624
Staff fund .. 366,000 406,000 431,000
* Rates not stated, f Includes unspecified provision
for contingencies and taxes.
Assets. .
Advances, proper-
ties. etc. . . £6,784,231 £5,855,048 £5,821,004
Premises, etc. .. 329,621 380,290 399,985
Stock . . .. 462,241 472,820 530,025
Sundry debtors .. 1,020,913 1,149,062 1,211,645
Cash & investments 1,447,402 2,576,490 2,763,545
To make the debenture repayment, add
£19,695 to premises, £57,205 to stocks,
£62,583 to debtors’ balances and £187,055
to cash and investments the board went
outside for an extra £586,053. When the
books closed, stocks, debtors, cash, etc.,
exceeded the floating debt and staff fund
combined by £1,064,591.
Producers’ Co-op. Distributing Society
Net To Re— Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 23,643 7 p.c. = 13,881 9,763 2,762
1928.. 15,434 7 „ „ 14,164 1,270 4,032
1929.. 26,093 7 „ „ 15,475 10,618 14,660
Added goodwill, £16,350 ) , 7 00
1930.. 2,432 Nil 2,432 }
Loss.
1931.. 718 Nil 1,014
Profit.
1932.. 7,116 2$ p.c. = 5,200 1,916 2,930
Added goodwill, £650 .. .. 2,280
1933.. 12,571 3 p.c. = 6,120 6,451- 8,731
1934.. 23,150 34 „ ~7,130 1 R 787 17 , 1S
Bonuses to clients. £7233 { B ’ 7S7 17 ’ &1S
1935.. 23,862, * ?' C ‘ cio’coh 1 3 > 1() 6 20,624
Bonuses to clients, £12,608 j
Unexplained addition, £4029 .. 24,653
1936.. 30,539 4 p.c. = 8,089 1 o oqo oc 046
Bonuses to clients, £19,057 f
1937.. 40,741 4 pc. = 8,144) m 42 m
Bonuses to clients, £17,850 }
Formed in 1925, the P.D.S. amalga-
mated the Coastal Farmers’ and Berrima
cos., two pioneers of co-operative mar-
keting in N. S. Wales. It is one of a
strong network of co-operative selling
organisations, here and in London, which
have done a lot for the farmer by keep-
ing down the cost of handling his pro-
ducts, by more orderly marketing of
them and by prompt settlement of his
accounts. It is through the big central
export organisation, Australian Pro-
ducers’ Wholesale Co-op. Federation
Pty., and the two associated London cos.,
Overseas Farmers’ Co-op. Federations
and Empire Dairies, that the steadily
expanding volume of dairy and other
farm produce from all over Australia,
and from other parts of the Empire, too,
is fed on to the London market. The
smaller co-op. societies in the various
States of the Commonwealth attend to
local distribution.
During the last term the co. handled
less butter, potatoes, dried fruits and
poultry, owing to seasonal conditions.
But more bacon, cheese, honey, eggs,
chaff, maize, lucerne hay and canned and
fresh fruits passed through its depots.
In local currency the London price of
Australian butter averaged 1265. Bd. per
cwt. for the first three-quarters of the
term; the figure rose sharply to 1735.
for Oct., since when it has eased steadily
to 1365. last week. At the end of June
last the Equalisation Committee lifted
the wholesale price for local consump-
tion from 140 s. to 1495. 4d. .per cwt.
Rising production costs and the return
of prosperous conditions in Australia
were the officially declared reasons.
. However, what the co. missed on the
swings it picked up on the roundabouts,
the spring in turnover amounting to
£481,781:
, —Exes. p.c. of—
Commis- Corn-
Turnover. sion, etc. Exes. Turnover, mission.
£ £ £
1926. .5,031,249 206,145 183,225 £3/12/10 88.8 p.c.
1927. .4,636,943 206.991 183,358 £3/19/1 88.5 „
1928. .4,750,000 201,692 186,258 £3/18/5 92.3 „
1929. .4,996,990 213,875 187,782 £3/15/2 87.8 „
1930. .4,825,978 198,339 195,907 £4/1/2 98.7 „
1931. .3,973,050 173,006 173,724 £4/7/- 100.1 „
1932. .3,886,358 174,464 167,348 £4/6/- 95.9 „
1933. .3,801,385 171,194 158.623 £4/3/5 92.6 „
1934. 178,177 155,677 £4/0/3 87.3 „
1935. .4,041,691 182,636 158,774 £3/18/6 86.9 „
1936. .4,124,033 207,005 176,466 £4/5/6 85.2 „
1937. .4,605,814 230,795 190,054 £4/2/6 82.3 „
An extra £23,790 was received in com-
missions, etc., and handling charges, etc.,
were up £13,588, leaving the net result
£10,202 better at £40,741 (= 20 p.c. on
capital), of which £17,850 (down £1207)
was handed back to clients as rebates of
commissions on local sales at the un-
changed rate of 20 p.c. on butter and
p.c. on bacon, cheese, fruits, etc.
The balance (£22,891) was 11.2 p.c. on
capital, but the div. was kept at 4 p.c.,
£14,747 being added to reserves, now
£42,793. However, bonuses to clients,
who are mostly shareholders, make the
return 12.7 p.c. on the face value of
shareholdings.
The financial position improved:
1931 1935 1936 1937
Paid capital.. £208,294 £203,715 £202,446 £203,587
Overdraft .. 42,821 2,339 50,706 91,655
Other liabilities 152,984 220,864 217,408 226,014
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 60,387 62,014 60,836 66,007
Plant.. .. 29,680 30,515 33,914 35,448
Shares other cos. 26,543 26,690 26,690 26,690
Stocks . . 49,885 72,345 92,393 114,392
Book debts .. 228,501 259,604 297,189 329,701
Cash .. .. 10,132 17,129 14,729 17,805
During the year the co. bought its head-
office premises from the City Council at
an unstated figure. Net growth in the
book value of freeholds, etc., was £5171.
When the books closed, cash debtors’
balances and stocks exceeded outside
liabilities by £144,229, up £8032. The
amount coming to consignors (£144,801)
was equal to less than three weeks’ sup-
plies, and the £252,484 of trade debtors’
accounts was equal to about three weeks’
turnover. So there is pretty prompt
settlement both ways, and that is as it
should be.
As for the current term the seasonal
outlook is bright enough, and prices are
at profitable levels.
Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd.
, Dividends >,
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£/ £> £>£*£/
1927.. 39,409 27,790 5} p.c. = 11,000 619 62,776
1928.. 36,061 27,790 Nil 8,271 71,047
1929.. 458 27,790 Nil 9 43,715
1930.. 34,104 27,790 Nil 6,314 50,029
1931.. 38,075 27,790 Nil 10,285 60,314
1932.. 45,061 27,790 7 p.c. = 21,000 56,585
1933.. 47,137 27,790 5 „ „ 15,000 4,347 60,932
1934.. 53,123 27,790 6 „ „ 18,000 7,333 68,265
Bad debts reserve taken in, £7500 .. 75,765
1935.. 67,105 27,790 7 p.e.= 21,000 18,315 94,080
1936.. 78,228 27,790 8 „ „ 24,000 26,438120,518
1937.. 88,019 27,790 9 „ „ 27,000 33,229153,747
This is Adelaide’s biggest department
store, and a very energetic and enter-
prising organisation it is, too. It has
£697,000 of capital to feed in 100,000
A and 297,000 B prefs,, both 7 p.c.
cumulative and ranking in the order
stated for capital and divs., and 300,000
ords. Public investment interest is con-
fined to the prefs, the ords. being all
held by Myer Emporium, Melbourne,
which .bought control from the Marshalls
in 1928, paying 30s. each for two-thirds
of the holding, the balance being taken
later at par.
The outstanding feature has been the
unfaltering success of the management’s
vigorous trading policy, moulded on
lines similar to the parent’s. Re-
organisation was completed in 1929,
just as the big break in the markets and
change in outlook occurred. Still, net
earnings, which have exhibited surprising
health, have since advanced by annual
steps, lengthening their stride as con-
ditions improved.
Gradually the co. has displaced many
lines previously imported with manufac-
tures from its own workrooms,, latest
addition to which is a fur factory. Names
on the co.’s permanent payroll now tot
up to over 1800. During the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts there was
a substantial increase in turnover, and
gross earnings moved up £35,497, reach-
ing £427,560 (£217,657 in 1929). Includ-
ing £15,000 (down £450) set aside for
taxation, exes. (£339,541) took £25,706
of the increase, leaving the net result
£9791 better at £88,019, or more than
three times the combined annual pref.
requirements. After paying the pref.
divs. (£27,790), enough remained to show
20 p.c. on ord. capital as against 16.8,
13.1, 8.4, 6.4, 5.7, 3.4 and 2.1 p.c. back
to 1930. Another point was added to
the div., making it 9 p.c., equal to 6| p.c.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
269 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET,
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.46 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
‘‘Yelgab,” Melbourne.
Money for your
FAMILY'S NEEDS
THERE are many ways in which
* you can use the A.M.P. Society
to provide the money for your family’s
needs, and to add to your happiness:
Through the A.M.P. you can
make your family’s future
secure.
*&•
Through the A.M.P. you can
borrow money to help you
build a home.
Through the A.M.P. you can
provide for your own old age.
m
I
Through the A.M.P. you can
provide money for a trip
abroad.
(1) You can provide financial
security for your family in the
event of your death. Instead of
waiting until you have saved
enough, you can provide the
security immediately—you can
create an estate of £250, £5OO,
or £5,000 immediately—and pay
for it over the years, with the
knowledge that, should you die,
no further payments are re-
quired.
(2) You can borrow money
to help you build a home under
a plan that will wipe out the
mortgage in the event of your
death.
(3) You can provide for your
own old age; a monthly income
on your retirement that will be
yours and your wife’s as long as
you live.
(4) You can plan to have a
trip abrc/ad at 45 or 50, or at
whatever age you choose.
Send to the nearest A.M.P. office for an experi-
enced adviser to talk the matter over with you. He will
respect your confidence absolutely, and will show you
how best to use the A.M.P. to cover your risks, obliga-
tions and hopes. Don’t delay. Send to-day.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, Chairman of the Principal Board.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
on the total cost of the shares to the
parent. »
• Continued expansion of the business is
further reflected in balance-sheet figures:
1931. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Capital .. £697,000 £697,000 £697,000 £697,000
Liabilities . . 166,047 243,283 316,588 362,661
Freeholds and
leaseholds.. 491,852 553',614 580,945 602,883
Furniture,
plant, etc... 112,907 105,666 69,299. 9'8,278
Stocks . . 241,722 284,454 319,058 365,103
Book debts 102,924 117,110 162,735 119, rB4
Cash . . . . 10,351 10,414 16,413 71,254
While stocks increased by £46,045,
debtors’ balances were reduced by
£42,951, the cash holding was strength-
ened by £54,841, and £21,938 was added
to the book value of premises. The net
growth in the outside debt was £46,073 —
the amount coming to sundry creditors
(£76,432) was reduced by £52,675 and
deposits from shareholders and others
(£286,229) increased by £98,748. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£193,480) was £11,862,
notwithstanding the addition to fixed
assets.
At 28s. 3d. (275. 6d. a year ago) the
As return 4.9 p.c., and the Bs at 275. 6d.
yield 5.1 p.c. The net tangible cover is
£8 10s. Id. As and £2 11s. 7d. Bs.
Mt. Morgan Developments, which has
taken over the general management of
Sulphide Gold’s mine at Mandurama
(N.S.W.), has agreed to do the job for
£lOOO a year, out of which it will provide
the co. with an office and secretary in
Sydney, and will be subject to the Sul-
phide board’s control in matters of
broad policy.
* * * . *
Central Nell Gwynne, one of the bright
lights of the Bendigo (Vic.) field, has
taken over, at an unstated figure, the
lease and pumping equipment of the ad-
joining Nell Gwynne mine, where the
overseas-financed vendor recently threw
in the sponge, having exhausted its funds
without chancing on anything startling.
The’shaft on the property is down 1100 ft.,
most encouraging results of development,
carried out mainly by crosscuts east and
west at each 100 ft. of depth, including
discovery of a gold-carrying spur system
between 700 ft. and 900 ft. and a large
mineralised reef below 900 ft. Hopes
were that the big ore-body being worked
in the Central Nell property crossed into
the Nell Gwynne area. In an attempt
to pick up this lode, the Nell Gwynne
management put out a drive at 400 ft. on
a formation which dipped sharply 200 ft.
from the Central Nell boundary, but the
limited amount of winzing then done
failed to disclose an extension of the
sought-for lode. After meeting its debts,
Nell Gwynne hopes to pass something
back to shareholders. Leasing the plant
and surface equipment, Central Nell is
putting a plan of development into im-
mediate operation.
* * * *
From London: Laughter, shrieks, cheers,
hoots and clapping interrupted speeches
by chairman Sir William Campion and
managing director De Bernales at Com-
monwealth Mining and Finance Co.’s
meeting. About 400 shareholders rolled
up, and the proceedings lasted hours.
Inquisitive scripholders asked for in-
formation about cost of management,
machinery, fees and other matters ; the
chairman refused to reply to a number of
questions, most of which, he said, were
nonsensical, and some, especially those
relating to the managing director, ill-
mannered and impertinent. The chair-
man’s review of the co.’s operations was,
on the whole, well received, and he was
applauded at the end. No distribution
was made to shareholders, despite two
divs. from Yellowdine, because capital
losses stood in the way. The board has
decided to maintain a cash reserve of
about £lOO,OOO to meet probable future
development outlay at the Phoenix. The
co. holds a large interest in Yellowdine,
a substantial one in Comet, and owns
the Phoenix and other properties in West-
ralia. In the course of a fighting speech
Claude de Bernales made a strong appeal
for co-operation on the part of share-
holders, and for rejection of unfounded
rumors damaging to the co. A resolu-
tion for adoption of the report and ac-
counts was lost by a show of hands, but
was adopted by a poll taken later.
* * * *
Comet (W.A.) still shines brightly.
November return was worth £6980, costs
totalled £2794, and profit exceeded £4OOO.
The quantity of high-grade tailings
stacked for future treatment was 558
tons. Present owners are Gt. Boulder
Mining and Finance, four-ninths; Com-
monwealth Mining and Finance, two-
ninths ; Anglo-Australia Development,
Meekatharra, and Gold Fields Australian
Development, one-ninth each.
* * * *
Four London-controlled Westralian
cos. are interested in Yellowdine (W.A.).
In Australian currency, the amounts re-
ceived by them from the recent div. of
Is. sd. a share were: Commonwealth
Mining and Finance, £25,652 ; Anglo-
Australian Gold Development, £10,261 ;
Great Boulder Mining and Finance,
£9380 ; Gold Fields Australian Develop-
ment, £10,261. The first three belong to
the De Bernales group, and the last is
controlled by the same people as Wiluna.
* * * *
Three of De Bernales’s Westralian
goldmining group —Emu, Riverina and
Gladiator —are seeking additional capi-
tal. The first two are subsidiaries of
Murchison Gold Development, Ltd., and
the third an offshoot of Great Boulder
Mining and Finance. Each wants to in-
crease the number of its issued £1 shares ;
Emu from 125,000 to 400,000, Riverina
from 150,000 to 350,000, and Gladiator
from 250,000 to 400,000. The respective
boards are hopeful of getting what they
require, notwithstanding that London is
shy of Australian goldmining ventures at
the moment.
* * * *
Gold Fields Australian Development
announces a yield from ore treatment of
66700 z. of fine gold and a working profit
of £16,800 for the third quarter of 1937.
In addition 1582 fine ounces was ex-
tracted from accumulated concentrates.
No account is taken of any profit from
treatment of these concentrates. De-
velopment showed values between 630 ft.
and 830 ft., the two deepest levels, to aver-
age about sdwt. per ton. There are
2,000,000 ss. shares issued, and a number
bought when the market was substantially
higher than it is now are held in Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
Lake View’s annual report shows that
development has been a prominent
feature of the co.’s programme during
the last 12 months. Although expendi-
ture in this connection temporarily pre-
judiced the up-trend of profits, it led to
considerable improvement in ore re-
serves. Work on No. 2 lode in the
Horseshoe and Chaffers proved satisfac-
tory ; over one quarter of the year’s
total mine development was devoted to
this ore-body. Operations on the minor
gold-carriers New, No. 1, Caunter
and Chaffers East lodes also gave
promising results. The trend of develop-
ment on the co.’s western group is from
north to south, giving preponderance of
ore reserves to the Chaffers in place of
the Ivanhoe. This preponderance is
likely to become greater with the open-
ing up of the No. 4 lode in Chaffers
during 1938. The policy appears to be
to keep ore reserves about five years or
more ahead of the mill. At June 30
last these reserves were about six and a
half years ahead, notwithstanding that
nearly 50,000 tons of high-grade ore was
cut out. This ore was in old floor
pillars of the Horseshoe, and became
temporarily inaccessible through the
collapse of old workings. Referring to
the benefit gained by the installation of
two up-to-date collectors, the report
states that in 1935-36 £ll,OOO worth of
gold was lost by dusting during roasting,
while in 1936-37 the loss was about
£3OOO, a direct saving of £BOOO. Mining
costs have risen Id. a ton as the result
of the 40-hour week.
* * * *
London-controlled Paringa Mining
and Exploration, operating at Kalgoorlie
(W.A.), netted £14,948 for the year to
the end of August last, as against £3498
for the preceding 12 months. A maiden
div. of l|d. per share p.c.) will be
sent out on Feb. 17. Ore treated during
the year at the South Kalgurli mill
was 13,284 tons, average head value
9.75dwt.; it was drawn from the first
five levels as a result of development,
stripping, etc., over widths varying from
sft. to 24ft. At the close of accounts
proved and partly developed ore totalled
220,375 tons, containing 61,7060 z. fine
gold, valued at £A539,937, the average
grade being s.6dwt. “We are opening
up rich shoots as well as low-grade runs
of ore, and results generally are highly
satisfactory,” says the chairman. The
mine carries two known shoots, and has
two shafts, each down 400 ft. The first
unit of co.’s own 50,000-ton-a-year treat-
ment plant is now nearing com-
pletion. In addition to the Paringa
mine the co. has an option over seven
leases at the northern end of the Kal-
goorlie belt, a substantial interest in Mt.
Charlotte, Kalgoorlie, and two gold-
mining reservations from the Westralian
Government, one of six square miles in
the Yalgoo district and another of 16
square miles in West Pilbara.
* * * *
Wiluna Ajax (W.A.) didn’t spend a
merry Christmas. Work done on the co.’s
Wiluna holding during 1937 failed to
disclose a payable lode, and prospects
are not so bright as they might be. The
co. has just acquired an oil lease at
Lakes Entrance (Vic.) which is declared
to be in an excellent position.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.).— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and •'general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sidney.— Advt.
He * * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. Write
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy.— Advt.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
V
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL .. 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
B.H.P. New Shares.
At 355. 9d., equivalent to 60s.
9d. when fully paid, the 55.-paid
scrip of B.H.P. looked attractive
last week, offering an eventual yield
of above 4 p.c.
-ghR SECKRtt-g
“SPREAD” INVESTMENT
It’s the ideal, but difficult to obtain for people of moderate
means. Except, of course, by a purchase of FIRST
AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES, which
give you an interest in 20 leading “listed” securities and a
liberal income yield. Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write for Booklet No. 1 to the Managers :—
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294.,
Box 4028 V.
G.P.O.
Listen in to “Romance of Industry” Session each Wednesday Night at
9.30 from 2UE.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Ord.-share Yields
Yields offering from ordinary-share in-
vestments should generally show a length-
ening in 1938, not necessarily because
lower sharemarket prices are expected,
but because prices for the past two or
three years have anticipated rising divs.;
and now that the expected rates of divs.
have arrived a consolidation of price-
gains rather than further forward move-
ments seems the logical development.
The following table, showing yields at
the opening and closing rates of 1937, is
interesting: —•
Jan., Dec.,
p.c. p.c.
National Bank £5 .. £3/10/9 £4/4/5
Bank of N.S.W. .. 3/6/8 3/12/-
Goldsbrough, Mort .. 3/12/9 4/17/-
Australian Gas .. 4/17/4 4/16/7
Metropolitan Gas .. 4/14/10 4/16/-
Carlton Brewery ... 3/15/- 4/14/5
Tooth 3/9/11 4/-/
Adelaide Steam .. 3/13/- 4/7/-
Amalgamated Wireless 3/18/7 3/19/-
Australasian Paper .. 4/7/1 5 // —
Australian Cement .. 7/1/7 6/0/8
Australian Glass .. 3/4/- 3/4/-
British Tobacco .. 3/3/4 3/17/5
Broken Hill Prop. .. 3/1/11 4/-/-
David Jones .. .. 4/12/6 4/16/-
Dunlop-Perdriau .. 5/4/10 6/1/-
Electrolytic Zinc .. 4/6/1 7/4/5
H. Jones .. .. 4/3/4 4/2/3
“Herald” and “Times” 3/8/10 3/14/2
Meggitt 5/15/11 6/1/4
Myer 4/7/3 5/6/
Prestige 5/11/2 6/1/4
Yarra Falls .. .. 4/18/9 5/2/
During 1937 divs., on the whole, more
than kept pace with the rise in share
prices—where there were rises over the
year. Among the few exceptions were
Australian Gas, Australian Cement, Aus-
tralian Glass and Henry Jones Co-op.
In each of these cases there was no lift
in the div. rate, and the cement co. was
particularly depressed 12 months ago
because of the uncertainty of the posi-
tion regarding the tariff on imported
cement.
Among high-yielders are textile cos.
like Holeproof (7 p.c.) and Prestige (just
over 6 p.c.), cement cos. like Kandos
(6.3 p.c.) and Australian Cement (6 p.c.),
and a few miscellaneous concerns like
Meggitt (6 p.c.), Australasian Paper (5
p.c.) and Cumberland (5.6 p.c.). The
newer cash-order cos. give the highest
(and perhaps most doubtful) return of
all groups.
Good stocks expected to at least main-
tain present rates under existing condi-
tions are the two Kraft-paper cos. men-
tioned, also the cement cos., Carlton
Brewery (4.7 p.c.) and Arthur Cocks
(6.7 p.c.).
The Exchanges opened last Wednesday
without any general decline in share
prices. Among indicator stocks Austra-
lian Glass, British Tobacco, Broken Hill
Prop., Tooth and Adelaide Steam went
to higher rates ; G. J. Coles, North Coast
Steam, Australian Gas and one or two
other stocks showed moderate recessions.
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney was
slightly higher; Bank of N. S. Wales
was unchanged. In sympathy with base-
metal quotations, Barriers and Mt. Lyell
slipped, Norths and Souths quite sharply.
There was better inquiry for producing
goldmines, and Oil Search scrip showed
improvement, but later weakened.
As the markets found their feet more,
a strengthening in bank scrip was notice-
able. Greater J. D. Williams showed
little response to the announced possi-
bility of selling its Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne, freehold. Australian Paper
Manufacturers prefs. improved strongly
to 265., and Australasian Paper ords.
lifted to 325. 3d., as against 30s. —30s. 6d.
when recommended here just before
Christmas. It is still an attractive stock.
Kandos Cement shares, another recom-'
mendation at 235. 6d., kept firm at 255.
9d. McWhirters, Brisbane, lifted to 15s.
North Kalgurlis changed hands at the
firm rate of 21s. sd. in Melbourne;
Wilunas were at low water around 9s. in
Adelaide on the opening day, then swung
up to 14s. 6d. after sales as Tiigh as
13s. 6d. sterling in London. Reports of
better mine developments prompted the
lift. Swan Bitter (B. 5/1/’3B) rose by
nearly a shilling, to 4s. 3d., following an-
nouncement of a third 3d. div., payable
Feb. 4. Lake View and Stars were weak
at 20s. 6d., but Great Boulders rose to
Bs., the best price for some time.
Wellington Alluvials (N.S.W.) strength-
ened to 6s. Id., and there was some
nibbling at Emperor and Loloma (Fiji) at
higher figures. Emperor later reported
trouble in the plant owing to wet ore.
* * * *
While talk is still going on concern-
ing the possible results throughout the
construction trades of B.H.P.’s lift of
from ss. to 20s. a ton in mill steel prices,
it is worth recalling that in May, 1935,
the big co. reduced charges for its pig
iron by ss. a ton, and plates and rails
by 20s. a ton. The recent lifts do not
take back in full those concessions,
though we are now loaded with “pros-
perity” wage awards. Nobody wants to
see mounting figures in essential basic
commodities like steel, but it wasn’t
B.H.P. that started the ball of higher
costs rolling. In any case, 10s. a ton
added to the price of B.H.P.’s entire
annual steel output would amount to no
more than £350,000 p.a.
* * * *
To what extent can internal economic
trends follow a course contrary to the
direction of export prices? Many people
must be asking that question at the
moment, because trade within Australia
is undoubtedly more healthy than trade
outside it. Wool and wheat are down ;
wages, employment, trading profits, land
sales, building figures, bank clearances
and retail turnovers are all up, and at
the moment are increasing. Savings-
bank deposits are now a record. The
answer to the question seems to be, “So
long as employment can be kept up’’ ;
but that in itself raises many more ques-
tions. Can the demand for city and
suburban building go on at the present
rate? Are the other construction trades
likely to come to a point where the
inquiry for new working assets will be
satisfied, and future orders depend on
replacements and renewals? If there
is a setback in these industries,
employment must fall. It is suggested
here that internal prosperity is not likely
to be disturbed seriously unless costs
and prices in general rise to a higher
point than at present. Too-high costs
and prices brought about the present
collapse overseas.
* * * *
Over the financial nerve-centres of the
world hang clouds of doubt created by
war and talk of war. The following
opinion is from Tokio, out of the pages
of the “Oriental Economist,” published
about a month ago: —•
Apart from the consideration of the
stability of the Japanese, German and
Italian treaty as an alliance of nations of
small resources, it appears to be an un-
deniable fact that the world is fast being
divided into two opposing camps of
nations, one “Have Nots,” the other
“Hayes.” So, many observers are appre-
hensive that peace is now growingly
menaced, and the world is again on the
verge of another war of all nations. We,
of course, do not deny that this might
happen... .The satiated nations are, after
all, engaged in defending their vested rights
and interests; all the while the grievance
of the “Have Not” nations is becoming
daily more acute The peace of the
world hangs as ever upon the attitude of
the “Have” nations —whether they will actu-
ally meet the demands of the “Have
Nots,” which the former in principle
recognise as entirely reasonable. This is
an unalterable fact after the conclusion
of the three-Power pact, as it was
before it.
The “Oriental Economist’s” views are
announced to be “independent; un-
biased by any racial, national or other
slant except one toward liberalism.”
“Demands” by “Have Nots” are more
of a strain on diplomacy than “nego-
tiations.”
•* * * #
Trade-union unemployment through-
out the Commonwealth showed a further
drop at the end of September—the ab-
sorption of jobless has continued at an
unbroken rate since June, 1932, just after
Lang went out in N. S. Wales —and it
may be taken for granted that figures
for the December quarter will show
further improvement. The Christmas
season usually finds plenty of jobs for
casuals, and this time trade has been
at a high level. At 9.3 p.c. three months
ago, unemployment has not been lower
in this country since Dec., 1927. Which
probably means, taking population-
growth into account, that employment
has never been higher.
* * * *
Sydney wool sales for the six months
(most turnover was in the last four) to
December 31 brought in 13.7 d. a pound
for greasy, 26.6 d. for scoured, average
14.3 d., as against 16.7 d. for the 1936-37
clip.
* * * *
We truly live in an uncertain world.
In the middle of 1937 19d. a pound for
the new season’s wool seemed not im-
probable. Up to date 14d. has been
about the average, and, though there
were signs of recovery before the holi-
days, the sales reopened on a much
weaker note. Buying orders from over-
seas to agents in Australia afe at present
of an emotional order, the tendency
being to take the pessimistic view and
wait, and to reduce limits. Offerings
have already been restricted by 10 p.c.
in the Commonwealth. Still, there is a
high consumption of wool throughout
the world, with no overproduction. It
can therefore be said that the wool in-
dustry is in good statistical trim to ride
out the blustering financial weather
affecting, to a greater or smaller extent,
all commodities at present. Wool has
followed metals down, but not to the
same sharp degree.
* * * *
The shares of Lancefield, Beria (W.A.),
opened for 1938 at ss. 3d., which was a
bit better than the rates seen on a couple
of panicky days just before Christmas.
Working profit during the past three
months has been slightly above 21s.
a ton. “Proved ore” as indicated in the
last report should be exhausted early in
1939, and before that happens the co.
may be expected to get down to hard
work developing the “probable” stuff,
tentatively suggested at 400,000 tons,
“which may prove a conservative esti-
mate.” If that quantity comes to light
there is more than three years’ work
ahead of the mill there. Shareholders
seem to be at least assured of the present
market price back. If values and quan-
tities in the unproven depths pan out as
suggested by manager RidgWay, and costs
don’t lift greatly because of deeper
mining, there should be 10s. a share in
it at least. But the market, disappointed
anyway, prefers to play very canny.
* * * *
Australian sharebrokers generally are
passing through another lean period. The
past five years have been hectic Ones in
this avenue of employment, representing
as they have done the recovery period
from slump in which intense specula-
tion followed the depreciation of bonds
and industrial shares, and covering also
a period of “revival” in mining and
mining flotations and latterly a short
stretch of record profit-earnings among
some industries. On Sydney ’Change
£5OOO was paid for a seat last year. One
thing that is going to make 1938 un-
stable in the first few months at least is
the rapidly-changing index of all prices.
In 1935 and 1936 there was scarcely a
move in the N. S. Wales tabulation of
non-rural prices. During 1937 figures in
many cases lifted sharply, and wages in-
creased. Everybody seemed to want higher 1
prices a few years ago. When they did
lift they went too high, and until they
are definitely established in the public
mind as being too low again instability is
a certainty. That, anyway, is this
page’s interpretation of market mob-psy-
chology.
* * * *
Since the appointment of P. H. Curtis,
formerly secretary, to the managership of
Producers and General Finance, Sydney,
there has been a slight firming in the
shares —from 9s. 3d. to 10s. Id. If the
management presents more detailed ac-
counts next balance day the shares might
go still better. At any rate, shareholders
would know more precisely where they
stood.
* * * * '
Copra prices continue to slide, £l2
12s. 6d. being taken for South Seas sun-
dried in London last week. This is an-
other commodity in respect of which
the boom-time price of early 1937 has
been just about halved. Morris, Hed-
strom ords. have weakened from above
335. to 275.
•k * $
In Melbourne last week:
Myer prefs. rose to 385., which compares
with 365. not so long ago. The ords. were
inactive.
Carlton Brewery, described in B. 29/12/’37
as “a catch among brewery stocks” at 635. 6d.,
sold at 655.
Buyers offered 235. 6d. for Davis, Coop
ords., after last sales at 245. No sellers were
about.
Cocks Eldorado shares had turnover at
16s. 3d. This gold-and-tin stock is interest-
ing a number of people.
Australasian Paper ords. were scarce, and
buyers went to Sydney for scrip, paying 325.
3d. for the small parcels offering.
There were very few dealings in Montana
Western scrip, buyers standing nominally at
3s. 4d.
Norths closed at 525., Souths at 355. 6d.
Yarra Falls were worth attention for
income purposes at 395.
Adelaide Steam rose smartly to 335.
King Island Scheelite, working in Bass
Strait, reported progress with erection of plant
and buildings. Wolfram has recovered to
above 80s. in London.


The requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act have not been fully complied with in this advertisement,
which is intended for public information only.
A copy of the complete Prospectus, which has been duly filed for registration at the office of the Registrar-General,
together with application forms for 7% Cumulative Preference Shares, may be obtained as set out herein.
The 50,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each referred to herein have already been
subscribed for in cash and allotted.
MINERVA
CENTRE - LIMITED
REGISTERED UIIO EII THE COMPANIES ACT. 1936 . OF NEW SOUTH WALES
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £200,000
Divided into:
50,000 7% Cumulative Preference Shares of £l each £50,000
150,000 Ordinary Shares of £l each 150,000
200.000 • £200,000
25,000 7% CUMULATIVE PREFERENCE SHARES OF £1
EACH ARE NOW OFFERED FOR PUBLIC SUB-
SCRIPTION AT PAR, and are payable: 5/- per share
with application, 5/- per share on allotment, 10/- per
share in calls of 2/6 as and when required, at intervals
of not less than one month.
*50,000 ORDINARY SHARES OF £1 EACH HAVE
ALREADY BEEN SUBSCRIBED FOR IN CASH.
3,500 Ordinary Shares have been issued and allotted as fully
paid up to Mr. David N. Martin for the transfer to the
Company of the options to purchase held and paid for
by him on the two sites hereinafter mentioned, and for
services rendered in connection with the formation of
the Company.
25,000 7% Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each and
96,500 Ordinary Shares of £l each are to be held in reserve.
RIGHTS OF PREFERENCE SHAREHOLDERS.
The holders of 7 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares shall be entitled in
priority to the holders of the Ordinary Shares to be paid out of the profits a
fixed cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of seven per centum per annum
on the capital from time to time paid up thereon, payable on 31st March and
30th September in each year.
The Articles of Association provide that the holders of the 7 per cent. Cumulative
Preference Shares shall have equal rights with the holders of Ordinary Shares
to attend and vote at all General Meetings of the Company, to appoint Directors,
and to receive Directors’ Reports, Profit and Loss Accounts and Balance Sheets.
THE DIRECTORS.
DAVID N. MARTIN, Esq., Managing
NORMAN L. COWPER, Esq.,
Millewa Avenue, Waliroonga,
Solicitor.
J. A. CARPENTER, Esq.,
343 Edgecliff Road, Ed gee lift,
Company Director.
SOLICITORS.
Messrs. Allen, Allen & Hemsley,
A.P.A. Chambers, 53 Martin Place,
Sydney.
AUDITORS.
Messrs. Flack & Flack,
Kyle House, 31 Macquarie Place,
Sydney.
BANKERS.
Bank of New South Wales.
ireetor, 40 Olola Avenue, Vaucluse.
.T. I. B. DICKSON, Esq.,
47 Darling Point Road, Edgecliff,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
F. G. S. DAVIES, Esq.,
80 Beach Road, Darling Point,
Company Director.
SECRETARY.
Kenneth B. Thompson, Esq., A.1.C.A.,
Suite 605, Sixth Floor, City Mutual
Building, 60 Hunter Street, Sydney.
COMPANY’S BROKERS:
Messrs. Lamplough & Wharton,
Fifth Floor, Mercantile Mutual Building,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
(Members of Sydney Stock Exchange.)
OBJECTS.
King’s Cross, Elizabeth Bay and Potts Point are swiftly becoming the counter-
part of the West End of London—areas of de-luxe living, fashion and entertain-
ment. But this popular centre, notable for its gaiety and love of amusement, is
notable also for its lack of adequate and modern theatre accommodation.
So, with an expert eye on the potentialities of this thriving community, it is
proposed to erect here the “Paradise” Theatre and Restaurant, the “Minerva”
Theatre, and a limited number of individual shops.
The theatres, which have been designed to provide amusement and entertainment
sufficiently varied to gratify every taste, are to be erected across the road from
each other (one in the picturesque Macleay Street, the other in a widened Orwell
Street) practically at the intersection of Macleay Street with Darlinghurst and
Elizabeth Bay Roads.
LOCATION IS IDEAL.
Strategic value of the building sites is enormous, as they are in the very heart
of the greatest residential district in Australia. At least 50,000 well-to-do residents
are within easy walking distance; and there is a constant stream of visitors
from all parts of Australia and the world passing through the numerous hotels,
boarding-houses and flats.
Of paramount importance is the fact that the areas intercept the route taken
by tens of thousands of people on their way to the city, or back home, to
Darling Point, Edgecliff, Double Bay, Point Piper, Bellevue Hill, Rose Bay,
Vaucluse and Watson’s Bay.
Trolley-’buses, to and from the Town' Hall and Museum Underground Railway
Stations, pass every few minutes, and trams and ’buses are close at hand-
bringing the sites into convenient contact with all parts of the city and suburbs.
THE THEATRES.
Sydney, with its population of 1.250,000, has only two theatres devoted to “the
stage”—the “Royal,” 1308 seats, and the “Tivoli,” 1936 seats. This is in marked
contrast to the position overseas. Both London and Paris have 50 legitimate
theatres; New York, 59; Moscow and Berlin, 28 each. Theatrical managers every-
where are finding it well-nigh impossible to satisfy the public appetite for
theatrical entertainment.
Australian enthusiasm for “stage shows” is no less than that of people overseas,
and there is every assurance that, if provided with efficient and adequate facilities,
Australian enterprise will cater for the theatrical needs of the Australian people
with satisfaction to tfie public and handsome profit to the investor.
The “Paradise” will be a theatre suitable for musical shows, spectacles and
opera, whilst the “Minerva” will be appropriate for drama, straight plays, revues
or celebrity concerts. They are not, however, to be primarily legitimate theatres
or motion-picture houses, variety centres or concert halls, but a combination of
them all —in fact, theatres that may be used for all purposes.
THE “PARADISE” ROOF.
As a profitable adjunct to the theatres, there will be portion of the “Paradise”
Theatre buildings described as the “Paradise Roof.” It will be detached from
the main theatre building and will have its own entrances and exits, enabling
this enterprise to be operated as a distinctly separate unit.
The “Paradise Roof,” a modern roof-garden cafe, will be a distinctive rendezvous,
pleasingly intimate. Here will be opportunity for dancing whilst dining. Opera-
tion in conjunction with the theatres will enable the management, if necessary,
to provide music, cabaret shows, and other attractions that should be a welcome
acquisition to the social life of the city.
ADMINISTRATION.
The activities of the Company call for direction of a highly specialised nature.
This will be provided by the management, which, during-the first three years
Of its operations, very satisfactorily conducted the Liberty Theatre. All the
benefits of this experience and prestige will be at the command of the new
enterprise, as. the Company has entered into an Agreement retaining the services
of Mr. David N: Martin, Managing Director of the Liberty, for a period of five
years.
MANAGING DIRECTOR.
The Managing Director, Mr. David N. Martin, has devoted his entire career to
theatrical undertakings in their many phases. Mr. Martin has for twenty years
been prominently identified with all commercial aspects of the entertainment
business.
His direction of the Liberty Theatre, scene of the two most successful entertain-
ments presented in Australia in the last ten years—Grace Moore in “One Night of
Love” (net box office receipts of £36,163/12/9) and, recently, “Show Boat” (net
box office receipts of £45,379/18/5) —has commanded recognition throughout the
world,
COMPANY’S CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS.
These amount to £150,000, of which it is proposed to obtain £75,000 from advances
secured by mortgage, £50,000 from the 50,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each, which
have already been subscribed for in cash, and the balance by the issue of the
7 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares now offered for public subscription.
The Capital will be employed for the purpose of purchasing the two sites,
building, equipping and furnishing the two theatres, building the “Paradise Roof”
and shops, providing a contingency fund, and to cover foundation and initial
operating expenses.
ESTIMATES OF ANNUAL NET PROFIT.
Estimates of income and expenditure are set out in detail in the Prospectus, and
these show that on the basis of an annual net profit of £7586, after making
provision for Income Tax and writing off £lOOO yearly (during the first five
years only) for advance advertising and preliminary expenses, the requirements
of £1750 for the dividend on the £25,000 of 7 per cent. Cumulative Preference
Shares would be earned 4.33 times.
LISTING THE SHARES ON STOCK EXCHANGE.
The Memorandum and Articles of Association have been prepared in accordance
with the requirements of the Sydney Stock Exchange, and application will be
made, in due course, to have the Company’s Shares listed thejreon.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES
Interested Investors may obtain copies of the complete Prospectus and
Share Application Forms from the Company’s Brokers:
MESSRS. LAMPLOUGH & WHARTON, FIFTH FLOOR, MERCANTILE
MUTUAL BUILDING, 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’PHONE: 87791.
Or by application to the Registered Office of the Company:
SUITE 605, SIXTH FLOOR, CITY MUTUAL BUILDING, 60 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY. ’PHONE: 82000.
Applications for shares must he made to the Company on the form accom-
panying the Prospectus.
* The entire issue of Ordinary Shares was underwritten by Messrs. Lamplough & Wharton,
whose confidence was abundantly justified by the response of their clients. •
'Wv-
'?/ ■
p;., v
CW' - ' !
#f " """" |
*tl _____
/ •/////////////////////•^' , , •, /


Sheffield Shield Cricket
SOUTH AUSTRALIA v. N.S.W.
SYDNEY CRICKET GROUND, JAN. 15, 17, 18, 19.
Play Commences: 11.30 a.m.
TFAMQ. N.S.W. —S. J. McCabe (capt.), S. Barnes, A. G. Chipperfield, J. H.
* . Fingleton, V. Jackson, F. Mair, B. V. McCauley, L. O’Brien, W. A.
Oldfield, W. J. O’Reilly, E. S. White, J. Fitzpatrick (12th). S. AUST. —D. G. Bradman
(capt.), C. L. Badcock, H. J. Cotton, C. V. Grimmett, R. A. Hamence, B. H. Leak,
P. Ridings, R. Robinson, M. G. Waite, F. A. Ward, R. S. Whitington, R. G. Williams,
C. W. Walker.
Admission: Outer Ground—Adults 1/6, Children 6d.
Grandstand —Adults 2/6, Children 1/-.
H. Heydon, Secretary, N.S.W. Cricket Association, 254 a George Street, Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
If his display in the Moorabbin Handi-
cap at Epsom (Vic.) on Saturday can be
accepted as reliable, Press Gang is a spent
sprinting force. The gelding with an
overshot mouth carried the confidence
of his trainer, Jack Holt, and touched
evens, but eased to 11 to 8 because of
heavy support for Eastern Maid and Hos-
tile.
A. T. Craig, who owns Press Gang,
made a “killing” over Bitalli in the Mel-
bourne Cup of 1923. A wealthy man,
he wagers with joviality and courage
when inclination prompts. The stable
commission for Press Gang, however,
didn’t keep the price from drifting
when the money went in for Hostile.
That happened after J. E. Smedley had
assisted Martin to mount the little horse.
Hostile, a six-year-old stallion by
Simeon’s Fort, won the Cantala Stakes
in the spring of 1935. He did light stud
duty last season, and has returned to
the galloping ranks as fresh as ever. As
much as 11 to 2 was laid against Hos-
tile, but his price contracted to 7 to 2,
the closing quote being fours. Eastern
Maid was also at fours.
Trying to win from post to finish,
Eastern Maid almost succeeded. On
the home bend she was more than a
length in advance of Hostile, with Press
Gang a length farther off. Whereas
Press Gang finished weakly and was
only fifth, Hostile came home with bull-
dog courage to beat the Adelaide filly
by a neck. Banquet, who is returning
to form, beat the others.
Twelve months ago Press Gang car-
ried lOst. 31b. and put up an Epsom
record for six furlongs by covering the
distance in lmin. 12sec. He had 151 b.
less on Saturday, and this substantial
drop in weight contributed to his being
such a hot favorite. But the most gal-
lant racehorse cannot go on for ever,
and Holt may have to put Press Gang
on the pension list, as he did Highland
a few years ago.
• • • • • •
Having run an excellent third in the
V.R.C. Bagot Handicap a week before,
Lilirene always was in prime demand
for the J. L. Reilly Stakes, but Gay
Circle pressed her closely at the end of
the wagering. To reduce the burden of
Gay Circle by 71b., an apprentice jockey
was substituted for Ray Wilson. De-
spite there being only seven starters the
M.L. horse got into difficulties at several
stages, and his failure to gain a place
can be ignored.
• ••••«
Lilirene was ridden by Williamson, a
grand-nephew of Bob Lewis, who has
coached the lad. Bob doubted whether
the pace would be fast enough for Lili-
rene, and his fears proved to be well
grounded. The 1£ miles occupied 2min.
7sec., which is 2|sec. outside the course
record. Compelled to take control three
furlongs from home, Lilirene was sup-
planted by Pantoon at the turn and
faded into third place.
Last in a field of seVen w'hen Sindi-
cada scored at Mentone on the previous
Monday, Pantoon figured at 12 to 1 in
the J. L. Reilly Stakes and was de-
servedly the outsider of the party. Raced
by J. Fryer, who brought Wotan over
from Maoriland in the spring, this colt
almost upset the applecart of backers.
Only in the last few strides did Sindicada
(6 to 1) obtain his measure. Winner,
trained by Bert Foulsham, carried the
colors in which Pooley Bridge performed
so brilliantly over hurdles.
In years gone by A. J. Staughton raced
Currandooley, Aristaeus (second to Car-
lita in the Victoria Derby) and Matouree.
This Colac sportsman reappeared in the
role of owner when Diablote led home
a three-year-old field in the Chelsea
Handicap. Staughton bred Diablote
(Gay Lothario-Mnebiad), whose dam is
by Mnemon, a stallion that he imported
from England. Mnemon sired Sir
Mnemon, an Australian Hurdle winner.
Diablote started at sevens and, cleverly
ridden by Williamson, got up in time to
beat a 25-to-l chance, Fabric, by a head.
Silver Bond, who was supplanted from
favoritism by Bellevue, finished only a
neck behind Fabric after being last at
the end of a furlong. Ray Wilson has
ridden better races than he did on Silver
Bond.
Winner of the juvenile event was Lady
Montague, a Liberal filly belonging to
A. E. Kimpton, member of the Kensing-
ton flourmilling firm. Lady Montague
(5 to 1) comfortably disposed of Mellow-
light in the smart time of 60sec. for four
furlongs and nine chains (course record
is 59|sec.). Swifan was a close third.
Cassio (Heroic-Desdemona) started
favorite for the race won by Lady Mon-
tague, but was beaten at the half-way
stage. He cost R. R. Thomas 1300gns.
as a yearling. In the previous season
Thomas gave 1700gns. for Othello, a
brother to Cassio. The only success of
Othello to date was registered at
Moonee Valley on January 5. Cassio,
despite his inherited good looks, threatens
to prove just as unprofitable.
Holt was “on the wrong leg” at Epsom.
Press Gang failed him sadly, and Cry
Havoc, favorite for the Frankston
Welter, struck her colors to The K.C.
(11 to 4), who ended up in nearly as
much request as the imported grey mare.
Le Grand, in the same stable as Pan-
toon, earned third money, and may be
marked down as an early winner.
Jupiter tired almost to a walk at the
end of the Summer Hurdle, in which he
lost a lot of ground by running out at
the jumps and between them. The
stewards censured Cutler for “allowing
his mount to ease up,” as they put it.
Picador ran Jupiter to a head after ex-
periencing a bad passage. Jupiter
equalled the course record for two miles
over the battens, established 19 years
before.
* * * *
With limited chances at the stud, the
Australian-bred Valiard, who won a
Newmarket Handicap, sired a good and
wonderfully consistent horse in Valbeau,
whose dam is a Beau Soult mare.
“Eight wins, three seconds and a third
in 14 starts is Valbeau’s record this
season,” says the elated Grisdale, the big
chestnut’s owner-trainer.
Valbeau’s crowning victory was in the
Peter Moore Cup at Moorefield. It was
a sterling performance, as he was made
to carry his 9st. 51b. all the way. Val-
beau took charge going up the hill, and
after that was not in danger of defeat,
although Journal, who gave him a sub-
stantial start three furlongs from home,
ran him to less than a length. The favor-
ite, Jocular —Valbeau was second in de-
mand, at sixes—had the run of the race,
but he is not as good as the Coopers
thought. Tuckiar, St. Constant and Pan-
aster lost their chances at barrier-rise. All
three came home strongly, and Tuckiar
might have troubled Valbeau had he
been as well served at the start.
Celebrate had all the bad luck in the
Moorefield Handicap. His 9st. 61b. not-
withstanding, he was on the outside all
the way, whereas Hope, his most for-
midable opponent, never left the rails.
Turning for home, Musk Deer, who was
just ahead of Hope, moved away from
the rails, hampering the topweight in the
process. Hope’s jockey, Billy Cook, im-
mediately shot his mount through, and
he went on to beat Celebrate by a head.
The well-backed High Cross was not
suited by the track. He looks well, and
is now favorably- handicapped.
Hope was favorite at 6 to 4, Celebrate
being at 9 to 4. Musk Deer is reputed a
“dingo” ; all the same, his jockey might
have been asked a question by the
stewards.
Glenora Boy (3 to 1) won the Three-
and Four-year-old Handicap, from Peg's
Pet and Tony, with a lot in hand.
Jamieson has this three-year-old very
well, and his three recent wins have been
very profitable to the stable. Night of
Love again disappointed. There is no-
thing wrong with her condition, but
seemingly she is of little account. Roi
Sion could not go the early pace. He
will do better on a bigger track.
Royal Ensign (7 to 1), who carries the
Beauford colors —he was bred by his
owner, W. H. Mackay—won the colts’
division of the Juvenile like a good one.
He is by Royal Sun from Reserved, a
Magpie mare. Bofield (9 to 4) had a
runaway win in the fillies’ division of the
Juvenile. She was bred by her'owner,
A. Cooper, and is by Sion from Foxy,
an American-bred mare who was a
smart galloper on Sydney tracks, and
was the dam of the Doncaster winner
Jacko. Some Vixen and Radio Queen
filled the places, but were beaten so
easily that their form was of little
account.
Backers were well on the mark in both
divisions of the Flying Welter. In the
first The Jilt (7 to 2) scraped home from
Table Talk, who had a big lead to the
Leger and then stopped badly. The
second division proved a soft snap for
Bofield’s stablemate Joan Darling (3 to
1); she ran away from the rest at the
turn. She was ridden by an apprentice,
McDonnell, who carried out his instruc-
tions to the letter.
* * * *
Nine times out of ten a horse given
the same name as another whose turf
career is over is a failure, but there are
outstanding exceptions to the rule. In
the great days of St. Albans (Vic.), W. R.
Wilson had a colt called Manfred that
wasn’t much good, Twenty years later
Ben Chaffey resurrected the title for a
bay colt by Valais-Otford who was to
prove himself one of the greatest Aus-
tralian horses that ever raced. In the
days of the first Manfred there was a
bonny black mare known as Amiable,
who won the Newmarket. Now there is
another Amiable, also black and bonny,
and apparently as dashing as her pre-
decessor—anyway, she won the Standi sh
like a champion and looks like being the
early favorite for the Newmarket.
“Thormanby”: In Britain the Aga
Khan has headed the list of winning
owners (with £30,655) for the sixth time
in nine years. Horses bred by him earned
£46,252. Australian Stanley Wootton
won nine races worth £2767. Richards
topped the list of jockeys for the fourth
time with 214 wins out of 937 rides.
Australians Brownie Carslake (32 wins)
and Sibbritt (23 wins) are also mentioned.
Queenslanders will be interested to note
that O.' M. D. (“Ossie”) Bell took sixth
place among the trainers with £22,665.
Bell is a scion of an old-time Queensland
pastoral family, and began his career as
a trainer in the F.M.S.
* * * *
The A.J.C. stipendiary stewards have
declared themselves satisfied that “no im-
proper practices were indulged in in con-
nection with the running of” Billy Boy in
the Denman Handicap at Randwick.
They, however, fined King, the trainer
and part-owner, £5 for unseemly con-
duct. King, it was explained, “gesticu-
lated with his hands in response to the
demonstration made by a section of the
public against the horse after his win in
Tattersall’s Club Cup.” In other words,
he shook hands with himself, much as a
bruiser does after the referee has declared
him the winner.
Ins and Outs
Bradman turned in another century,
107, for South Aus. against Queensland
in Brisbane. They began on Saturday,
and at stumps South Aus. had 381 on
the board for eight wickets. Bradman
was quiet; the brightest batting came
from Williams (75 n. 0.) and Grimmett
(46). It finished at 398. Then Queens-
land —Brown was missing—lost four for
61, Cotton taking the first three.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: Melbourne folk have
been mildly interested in the cricket ex-
ploits of a 14-year-old schoolboy who
batted for three weeks and scored 373
runs. This was possible because it is the
practice at his State school to play
matches during the half-hour play in-
terval, the game being adjourned at the
bell, to be continued by the not-out bats-
men at the next interval. But there is
nothing very wonderful about the per-
formance save the size of the score. One
can recall alleged first-class batsmen who
have seemed to have batted three years,
let alone weeks, without getting anything
near the boy’s total. In Sydney a few
days ago a Queensland batsman took
131 minutes to make 17.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: The British cricket
public is growling over the Marylebone
decision that 3s. is to be the minimum
charge for Tests. The M.C.C. explains
that it is compelled to make the higher
charge to leave a decent cut for the
visitors. At present this amounts to lOd.
in every 2s.
o Continued on next page.)
Racquet and Bawl
The Germans did best in the triangular
tennis in Melbourne. Cramm beat both
Bromwich and Budge, Bromwich in
straight sets, 6-2, 7-5; Bromwich lost
both his matches—to Budge, 4-6, 6-8 ;
Quist beat Mako, 6-3, 7-5, but lost to
Henkel, 6-2, 9-11, 2-6 ; and Henkel went
down to Mako, 3-6, 0-6, 0-6. Rain in-
terrupted the first day’s play, and the
doubles Australia v. America were aban-
doned, but Bromwich and Quist put
Cramm and Henkel through, 6-2, 6-1,
after the German pair had accounted for
Budge and Mako, 6-4, 6-1, 6-3.
Cramm v. Budge was a masterpiece
in its way. Cramm won, 6-4, 8-10, 12-10,
after Budge had led 3 -nil in the last set.
The match had lasted just on two
hours, and few finer exhibitions of the
game have been seen in this country.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Freiherr Gott-
fried von Cramm, or just plain Cramm,
as you prefer, has told an interviewer
that open tournaments in tennis allowing
amateurs and professionals to meet on
equal terms will ruin the game. Neither
side wants them, and the professionals
are not eager to risk the reputations on
which they live by facing possible defeat
from the allegedly unpaid division.
Further, as there are too many tourneys
already for first-class players, the intro-
duction of open events would work the
players to death. The German star
makes another point which should appeal
to cash-hunting tennis bodies. He says
that professionals would want to keep for
themselves a considerable cut of the gate
takings the amateur controlling bodies
at present devote to their own uses. All
that may be true of tennis. But we have
in golf a striking example to the con-
trary.
(Continued on next page.)
Australian bike-pedaller Len Rogers
looked easy meat for the visiting Dane,
Dissing, in their £5O-a-s(ide match at
Sydney Arena. Dissing won in two
straight heats, partly by heady tactics.
Still, Rogers made hacks of all the
cracks bar Dissing, who didn’t start, in
the Aces scratch race later in the even-
ing. Dissing’s performance, for the even-
ing was five starts for five wins. Threats
by Empire Games authorities made most
of the leading amateurs scratch, but still
there were big fields for amateur events.
* * * *
Norman von Nida was richly re-
warded for his trip to the Philippines.
Third in the open championship, four
strokes behind the leader, at the end of
the second round, he finished with a 76
and a 69—293. It made him champion
and netted him a £5OO prize.
* * * *
Count in the motor-cycle “tests” be-
tween England and Australia, raced regu-
larly in Sydney on summer Saturday
nights, is 2-1 in favor of Australia, with
two more to go. The Sports Ground
saw the third “test”—Australia won by
27 points to 26. Wilkinson, the Aus-
tralian captain, hasn’t been beaten m
“tests” this season.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Anniversary Handicap: Pooley
Bridge; next, Windmar.
Rowena Welter: Sindicada ; next,
Sarokos.
Tooronga Handicap: Garrio ;
next, Hostile.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Park Stakes: Tony ; next, Lucky
Kid.
Flying Welter: Beau Ercil; next,
Stalin.
Canterbury Handicap: Panaster ;
next, Heracles or Masterpiece.
Campsie Handicap: Masterpiece
or Black Fern; next, High Cross.


INSTANT IGNITION
Price 5/- each.
Made in Australia under
Bosch Expert Supervision
PYROX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
w
G°
CP
9*
The majority of brake troubles are due either to poor brakt
lining or mal-adjustment.
Unless your brakes are adjusted so that the work is distributed equally
on all wheels then the wear is certain to be rapid and the braking poor.
If your brake material is poor in quality then all the effort and
expense of careful adjustment is wasted, for unless the lining
is consistent throughout then the wear cannot be uniform
and the brakes are soon out of correct adjustment.
Use only “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LINING—
the quality lining.
RAYBESTOS-BEEACO, ETD.,
LONDON, ENG.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Yic
EDGE"
BRAKE LINING
I
BRAKE TROUBLES
fd
fd
Ouk.
2}
WE COULD
HAVE
FED THE
MULTITUDE
• . . with our daily bread consumption!
40,000 loaves a year over 100 a day—my, what a
lot I White bread, brown bread Vienna loaves raisin
loaves, all are there Of course the Victoria Palace is
the largest and most modern hotel in Australia Last
year, we served more than a million meals ' Tariffs are
reasonable too—4/- to 7/6 Single room. 8/- to 16/-
Double room
201-229 LIT. COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE, C I <Ne«r town Hall)
VICTORIA PALACE
Ins and Outs
In the match with N.S.W. in Sydney
Queensland was beaten by eight wickets.
Only 35 behind on the first innings, the
Bananalanders had a chance but could
not grab it, collapsing for 131 (Tallon 41).
O’Reilly took 4-45, but was not ferocious
on the perfect pitch. N.S.W. lost two
wickets making the runs needed to win,
Oldfield (42) and McCauley (49) being
the not-outs.
In Melbourne Victoria disposed of
South Australia by 64 runs on the first
innings. S. Aus. ran to 356 in its second
try, but the closing batsmen made the
pace funereal to prevent any chance
of Victoria winning outright. Robinson
(62), Hamence (64) and Waite (51)
found most of the runs ; Bradman con-
tributed 35, the Gregory-Sievers bowler-
slip combination getting him again.
Gregory’s 2-46 was the best bowling aver-
age. Victoria had reached 144 at stumps,
Ledward scoring 58 n.o.
Points so far in the Shield battle favor
N.S.W., which leads with 13 to 11 by
Victoria. The Cabbage Gardeners have
won all their games and Ma has dropped
one, but two of the N.S.W. wins have
been five-point outrighters, whereas Vic-
toria has had only one such.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: Bradman added another
scalp to his belt of records when he
passed Clem Hill’s aggregate of 17,221
runs in first-class cricket in the South
Australia-Victoria match. He made the
figures 17,241 ; and they are likely to be
greatly increased in years to come.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Young Lush, whose fast
bowling was so successful for N.S.W. last
season and who was incontinently thrown
out of the State team after one failure
in Adelaide this season, has closed with
an offer to play with the private team of
Sir Julien Cahn, who has already enlisted
the N.S.W. colts Walsh and Mudge. Lush
has signed up for three years. I should
not be surprised to see Tallon, of Queens-
land, follow the example of Lush, unless,
which seems most improbable, he is
selected for ,the Australian XI.
* * * sfc
“Old Q.”: Returned to Brisbane after
a southern tour in which they lost all their
matches outfight, Queensland cricketers
are regarding the future gloomily. The
Bananalanders have lost 30 Sheffield
matches since they entered the Shield
ring in 1926, and have won only six. The
team was most successful when it relied
on local talent. The record of the past
couple of seasons has been so poor that
a withdrawal from the Shield competi-
tion is not an impossibility.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The match in Sydney
between Melbourne and Sydney Univer-
sities discovered a new bowling hope.
Melbourne won by nine wickets, largely
owing to the bowling of Zachariah, who
took 3 for 48 and 9 for 46 in the match.
A left-hander, he has a steady length and
varies his pace well, occasionally alter-
nating his left-hander’s normal break with
one the other way. He has played with
the Victorian second eleven.
* * * *
“Bramall Lane”: Wyatt, pushed
through the window by Warwickshire,
has transferred to Surrey, for which
county he has a birth qualification.
Wyatt, still one of the soundest bats in
England, will be a loss to Warwickshire,
for which he headed the averages last
year. If he finds form this season he
should again catch the eye of the English
selection committee.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: According to Gerald
Patterson, Henry Cotton may find it pos-
sible, after all, to visit Australia. Cotton
is now retained by the sporting-goods
firm of which Patterson is Australian
representative, and this may afford an
opening for the trip.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Our old friend the
stymie has been catching the limelight
again. The U.S.A. Golf Association
is shortly to consider its abolition.
Branch associations have already abol-
ished it, and in Australia “local rules”
have practically relegated it to obscurity.
It should not be long before even St.
Andrews consents to the abolition of
what is an absurd anomaly, since it
applies only to one of the two forms of
golf. There is no apparent reason why
what is correct in match play should not
hold good for the stroke version and vice
versa. Till St. Andrews moves, Empire
players can look for relief only to “local
rules.”
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong” : Harley Mathews, of the
Australian L.T. Council, has resigned as
a protest against what he calls “sham
amateurism.” He condemns the ex-
ploitation of young players to boom
sports goods as professionalism, and adds
that the L.T.A. is awake to the situation
yet turns a blind eye to it. Mathews has
a fine record as an official and adminis-
“Stand by, listeners, while the Sporting Soothsayer, who is in the
confidence of all the trainers, gives you his stone moral for
to-morrow.”
trator, and as a man who managed a
women’s team abroad and came back in
one piece he has special claims to respect.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Australian
tennis heads have decided to challenge
for this year’s Davis Cup. The decision
was strongly opposed. T. A. Nettlefold,
of Tasmania, made a good case for a
year’s spell for our players, who, as he
said in effect, have been treading a prac-
tically compulsory tennis treadmill for
several years in succession. Chairman
Pitt also opposed the sending of a team,
and there is likely to be a lively confer-
ence in February.
* * * *
“Scratch Cocky”: Perry and Vines
have been amusing themselves by picking
the greatest tennis-player they have seen
or met. Both put Tilden at the top of a
list of 10, and each places the other
second. Johnson and Lacoste come next;
then Vines likes Budge, Borotra, Cochet,
Nusslein, Kozeluh and Crawford. Perry's
pick is Cochet, Budge, Borotra, Nusslein,
Crawford and Patterson.
tjc # *
“Forest Hills”: The James Sullivan
memorial trophy, which has been
awarded to Budge, goes to the American
who “by performance, example and in-
terest” has done most in the year to help
along the cause of sport. Bobby Jones,
who won the trophy in 1930, is the best-
known of previous winners. Budge is
the first tennis-player to be so honored.
Miscellaneous
Kent-Hughes, the Victorian M.L.A.
and former Cabinet Minister, will manage
Australia’s Empire Games team. A
Rhodes scholar of the 1914 vintage
Kent-Hughes had a fine record as a
track athlete in England, representing
Australia at the 1920 Olympiad in Ant-
werp. He appeared for the Empire
against the U.S.A. the same year, and
for Britain against France the following
year, winning the 440 hurdles champion-
ship of England in 1922.
* * * *
“Canny Lad”: Australian Empire
Games athletes are annoyed because the
authorities are not issuing blazers. It is
explained that when teams for London
and Canada numbered only a score or
so the garments were not too costly an
item in the expense sheet. This time some
£650 would be needed. However, represen-
tatives may furnish themselves with
blazers of the official pattern if they pay
for them themselves. It recalls the an-
nouncement of the English Rugby Union,
a very wealthy body, some years ago
that international players might sport a
blaZer in addition to the traditional cap
—at their own expense.
* * * *
“Spike”: The 70-odd members of the
British team for the Empire Games have
made their Australian landfall and re-
ported all well. England, Scotland,
Wales and Northern Ireland are repre-
sented, and the management rates the
side a powerful one all round, though
champions had to stay behind. On the
way out the team grabbed every chance
of getting training runs and swims ashore,
and did regular work every day on board
ship.
* * * *
“Culex'Fatigans”: The arrival of the
British team in Sydney is a welcome event
for the first arrivals at the Showground
quarters, the South Africans and
Rhodesians. They expect that when the
plump and juicy Britons arrive the mos-
quitoes will transfer their attentions to
the newcomers.
* * * H:
“Cat”: Empire Games selectors chose
Miss Hook, of Lismore (N.S.W.), as a
diver. Her selection was challenged in
Sydney, and cancelled on the ground that
the Lismore club, to which she belongs
had not paid its affiliation fees to the
State body. It seemed dashed unsports-
manlike. Thinking it over the Australian
Union thought so too, and returned her
to the team.
* * * *
“Blade”: The composition of the
N.S.W. eight for the State championship
on the Nepean on January 29 is un-
usual, four scullers —J. A. Goulding,
Clubb, Bradley and Holden—being in-
cluded in the crew. This should leave
the State sculling title at the mercy of
Pearce, since Turner, chosen for the
Empire Games, will not be competing.
* * * *
“Cottesloe”: George Rogers, the
father of Westralian rowing and per-
haps the oldest active oarsman
in captivity, is back in Australia
after fulfilling a lifelong ambi-
tion. This was to row in the
Diamond Sculls, which he did,
but without success, as a mem-
ber of the Vesta Club. George,
now 55, was already a promi-
nent sculler in England when he
entered for the Diamond years
ago. As he was a manual
worker then, the “artisan” rule
barred him from competing, and
he had to come to Australia with
ambition unsatisfied. Last year
the snobbish ban was lifted, and
the Westralian travelled round
the world to get his chance at
last.
* * *
“Sprocket”: Australian
cyclists, absent for some years
from the Tour de France race,
are to have another try. Opper-
man and Nicholson, both of
whom have figured in previous
events, have been asked to ride
by an English promoter. It is
essential in the Tour that riders
should team, and the promoter is
organising an Empire team
which will include the Austra-
lians. Others invited are
Southall and Holland, of Eng-
land, and Peden, of Canada, all
long-distance riders of experi-
ence.
“Gate”: The feud between the man-
agement of the Kangaroos and the
N.S.W. section of the Rugby League
Board of Control deepens. The Kan-
garoosters were to ship the team from
France the moment the French tour is
ended on February 4. They replied that
as all the heavy baggage had been left
in Yorkshire they would have to go
back for it and so sail a fortnight later.
The Board of Control repeated its
order and vetoed any further matches
in Britain. Also it insisted that other
arrangements be made about the bag-
gage. Finally it held out the horrible
threat of withholding the cash bonus
which members of the team expect to
draw on returning to Australia.
* * s a
“Hamilton Reach”: Queensland is
sending down to Sydney a minor armada
for the Australian 16ft. skiff champion-
ship on January 23 and February 2 and
5 ; eight craft are to make the trip. Six
come from Brisbane, Townsville and
Bundaberg contributing the others.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Flicks of 1937 .
The most expensive and best-produced
film of the year, “Lost Horizon,” ’and
the most artistically satisfying, “The
Good Earth,” by a coincidence were
both Asiatic in flavor. Neither of these
films, in Australia or elsewhere, was as
profitable as had been hoped, and it
seems likely that the day of million-
dahlar spectacles like the “Horizon” and
finely-polished histrionic pieces like the
“Earth” (in which Paul Muni, Walter
Connolly and Luise Rainer all added to
their laurels) is passing.
On lower levels of production-cost
and general magnitude of aim the
American studios turned out some excel-
lent work. Among the best of the batch
were films based on more or less well-
known stories or plays, such as “Captains
Courageous,” which gave unforgettable
parts to Lionel Barrymore, Spencer
Tracy and young Bartholomew ; “Winter-
set,” which was largely done by the stage
cast and seldom went outside the stage
scenes ; “Seventh Heaven,” a little gem
of successful adaptation of stage to
screen; “Camille,” which gave Garbo
the finest role of her career ; “The Plough
and the Stars,” which marked the begin-
ning of a vast improvement in Barbara
Stanwyck; “Dodsworth,” Walter Hus-
ton’s only worth-while vehicle in the
year; and “Quality Street,” in which, the
Barrie type of sentimentalism was nicely
approximated by Katharine Hepburn and
Franchot Tone.
The one Shakspearean effort, Bergner’s
“As You Like It,” was meritorious, but
not in the same street with M.G.M.’s
“Romeo and Juliet.”
Mark Twain came to the screen again
in a well-directed, well-produced version
of “The Prince and the Pauper” ; “The
Prisoner of Zenda,” a bit moth-eaten,
was trotted out to keep Ronald Colman
at his usual high level of romantic sac-
rifice, and the evergreen “Stella Dallas”
had its sixth or seventh recasting as
occupation for Miss Stanwyck. The best
musical screen efforts of the year were
also from the stage —the Jeanette Mac-
Donald and Nelson Eddy “Rose Marie”
and “Maytime.”
Interesting screen plays with plenty of
meat on their bones were such semi-
historical essays as “The Gorgeous
Hussy” (notable for L. Barrymore’s
President Jackson), “Lloyds of London,”
which put Tyrone Power into the same
high pretty-young-man pigeonhole as
Robert Taylor; “The Plainsman” and
“Souls at Sea,” both of which gave
rattling good roles to Gary Cooper.
“High, Wide and Handsome,” admir-
ably full of action, and exhibiting Irene
Dunne as a very attractive singer, suffered
from Randolph Scott’s prosaic efforts at
lovemaking. Warner Baxter similarly
scotched “Slave Ship.” These strong,
silent men shouldn’t be cast as Romeos;
Which leads inevitably to mention of
Leslie Howard’s appearances in “It’s
Love I’m After” and “Stand-in.” Any
Howard film is notable. Edward Arnold
stuck to one vein for the year, exempli-
fied in “Come and Get It,” “John
Meade’s Lady” and “Easy Living.”
Conrad Veidt’s only memorable appear-
ance was in “Dark Journey,” a play well
below his weight.
The year, for Hollywood, was not very
rich in comedy. Boyer, Carrillo and Jean
Arthur made a first-rate team in “His-
tory Is Made at Night” ; Hugh Herbert
excelled himself in “That Man’s Here
Again” ; the Marx Brothers were a flop
in “A Day at the Races”; Menjou had
a gorgeous part in “Cafe Mdtropole.”
Mischa Auer has come to the front in
large bounds. He scored heavily in
“Three Smart Girls,” did still better in
“Vogues of 1938,” and eclipsed all his
own fine records as a funmaker in “It’s
All Yours.”
Polished serio-comedy, outside the
Leslie Howard productions, was exem-
plified in such pieces as “Angel” (Mar-
shall-Douglas-Dietrich), “The Last of
Mrs. Cheyney” (Powell-Crawford) and “I
Met Him in Paris” (Colbert-Douglas-
Robert Young). Of melancholy interest
was the bright racing film “Saratoga,”
Jean Harlow’s last appearance.
There were not many productions in
color. Palm for the year goes to “Wings
of the Morning,” made in England, a
very clever picturisation of Don Byrne
fiction. Hollywood’s best efforts in color
were “Vogues of 1938,” which gave Joan
Bennett a stunning part, and “A Star Is
Born,” in which Fredric March and
“When you've finished examining Fido, have a look over my husband. He's not very Well, either .”
Janet Gaynor made their only 1937
appearance.
Films made in England were a mixed
lot, and, save for “Wings of the Morn-
ing,” none showed any great advance in
technique. “Fire Over England” was
notable for Morton Selten’s picture of
old Burleigh; “Sabotage” exhibited
Oscar Homolka in a fine piece of acting ;
“Rembrandt” featured Charles Laughton
very effectively ; “The Turn of the Tide,”
by unknown players, charmed by its sin-
cerity and simplicity; “Elephant Boy”
put real India on the screen, and “King
Solomon’s Mines,” badly vulgarised, yet
enabled Cedric Hardwicke to add to his
laurels. Paderewski’s appearance in
“Moonlight Sonata” was disappointing.
Best of the comedies were the Hulbert-
Courtneidge opus “Take My Tip” and
the George Formby “Keep Fit.”
Australian producers—or should one say
the one surviving Australian producer?
—did well. “It Isn’t Done” was done
well enough to get Cecil Kellaway trans-
lated to Hollywood; “Mystery Island”
and “Tall Timbers,” despite raw patches,
showed glimpses of great promise, and
“Lovers and Luggers” measures up not
at all unfavorably with films in a similar
vein made overseas. If the present rate
of production can be maintained, and
all hands concerned continue to improve
with experience, Australian films may yet
figure among profitable exports.
Current Offerings.
The best musical stage show for years,
“Balalaika” is going great guns at
Sydney Royal. As a result Fay Compton
tours Maoriland before showing in
Sydney, the Firm’s next offering for
which address will probably be “Okay
for Sound.”
The Mayfair still has the Montagues,
in the show with which they opened, and
Jim Gerald, Ella Shields and co. go on
proving at the Tiv. that there’s still a de-
mand for stage vaudeville.
Films all round are miles above
average. For a spectacular show and a
good salty yarn to boot, as well as a
customarily robust bit of acting by Gary
Cooper, “Souls at Sea” thoroughly merits
its success at the Prince Edward.
St. James has “Marie Walewska,” a
superb Napoleonic film, with as splendid
acting by Garbo and Charles Boyer as
perhaps the flicks have ever produced.
Boyer’s performance particularly is so
arresting that the onlooker continually
falls into the illusion of watching actual
people. Garbo is at her finest, and the
film is so cleverly constructed that,
though it is concerned with only a small
part of Napoleon’s life and career, it
seems to convey the whole story.
The Lyceum, which suffered some re-
markably unentertaining films last year,
has kicked off this year with a remark-
ably good one —a screen version of the
stage play “Night Must Fall.” A tense
study of the psychological character of a
murderer, its suspense lies in the strong
possibility of violent physical action
likely to happen at any moment. Though
there is more than a little of the reper-
tory-play flavor about it, it is a power-
ful piece of drama, further notable for
Robert Montgomery’s finest perform-
ance to date.
Another sterling film on the “strong”
side is “Stella Dallas,” having a good
run at the Embassy. Of the rest, the
State’s ‘TOO Men and a Girl” can be
recommended as good light entertainment
with music, and “Maytime,” soon to
wind up its extraordinary run at the
Liberty, is another very pleasant enter-
tainer in the musical line.
Year’s Music.
Largely through the enterprise of
A.B.C. Australia now gets a good share
of touring musical celebrities. Highlight
of last year was the visit of Lotte Leh-
mann, who brought with her the most
consummately-trained and sympathetic
voice that ever came out of Vienna.
Lest we should deem that nothing
more could be taught us about orchestras
after Hamilton Harty and Malcolm Sar-
gent had given us a lesson or two there
came a little man from Finland, Georg
Schneevoigt, with a rough tongue and
a hot temper, and made our orchestrions
play even Sibelius as if they were be-
witched—a wonderful fellow.
Benno Moiseiwitsch, the pianist, re-
turned after an absence of five years,
during which, apparently, he practised 16
hours a day, for his technique, ample
in 1932, had become miraculous. But
it has enslaved him. A freer knight of
the keyboard was Arthur Rubinstein,
crisp and vigorous in style, and a shrewd
showman. He had all Sydney and Mel-
bourne humming the Ravel “Bolero”
before he had been in either city a week.
Of fiddlers we had three —Huberman,
Ujhelyi and the ’cellist Kurtz—all de-
lectable, and on top of these the four
Budapests, whose quartet-playing has
been greeted with rhapsodies from the
highbrows and snores from the hoi polloi.
Tito Schipa, Italian tenor, had seasons
in the eastern capitals, and met, as the
Methodists say, with much acceptance.
Occasionally he descended from a high
operatic perch and carolled rollicking
Neapolitan ditties of his own composi-
tion. They may not have been very
good art, but the relish with which he
sang them was delightful.
Australian pianists, Edward Goll in
Melbourne and Isidor Goodman in
Sydney, had concert appearances during
the year, and covered themselves with
glory. The musical societies have been
very, very quiet.
“Victoria the Great.”
Anton Walbrook, Anna Neagle.
When this showman dropped in on
the preview screening of “Victoria the
Great” at Sydney Prince Edward he
expected the life of an English sove-
reign during which half an empire was
made.
It wasn’t anything like that. A few
intermittent bits of her accession, some
not very convincing extracts from the


THE WORLD’S BEST GUNS
NEW —M ODERN —F AMOU S
BY CHURCHILL JEFFERY HOLLO WAY & NAUGHTON LALOUX
Actually in stock at 560 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, where you can shoot on our range and be certain that you get a gun that really suits
you. 1 his new department is in the care of Mr. J. Harrison, one of Australia’s Leading Trap and Field Shots. As well as being a
c ampion shot, Mr. Harrison has made a lifelong study of ballistics and technique of shotguns. He and other expert members of our staff
place themselves at your disposal.
fd
f
df
d
E. J. CHURCHILL, OF LONDON,
Prices from £35 to £175
fd
w. J. JEFFERY & CO., LTD., LONDON,
Prices from £32/10/- to £l5O
As is well known to all shooters
London-made guns represent the high-
water mark of the gun-making world.
Both the above London makers
specialise in producing long-range guns
specially suitable for Duck and Fox
shooting. These are the guns we recom-
mend for the man in the back country.
Holloway & Naughton are makers of
a good range of trap and field guns.
Many guns of this make are already in
use in Australia and give extreme satis-
faction to their owners.
For the popular priced gun Laloux has
been a leading Belgian maker for many
years, and the guns he is sending us, both
hammer and hammerless, in 12 down to
.4 1 0 bore, are strongly built and of good
weight. The twelves weigh not less than
71bs. and run up to 7flbs. These are not
frail weapons built down to a price, but
guns you can produce in the best com-
pany, without fear of criticism. Stocked
in both ejector and non-ejector.
mm
Wm
HOLLOWAY & NAUGHTON, BIRMINGHAM.
Prices from £lB/7/6 to £3l
m
m
GEORGES LALOUX, BELGIUM,
Prices from £2/17/6 to £l5
SEND FOR OUR
BEAUTIFULLY
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
POST FREE.
HahCeu £haw
’ (D. & W. Chandler, Ltd.)
560-566 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE
TELEPHONES: CENTRAL 187-188.
SOLE
AUSTRALIAN
LOADERS OF THE
WORLD FAMOUS
"RHENWEST"
CARTRIDGES.
Corn Laws and Chartist agitations, one
or two brief shots (in technicolor) of her
jubilee, and a passing glimpse of an
occasional statesman of the time, and
that was all.
Crimea, South Africa and the Austro-
Prussian war were not present. Neither
were such items as the visits to England
of Tsar Nicholas and Louis Philippe,
the first French king to visit an English
sovereign.
The picture is just another example
of two halves not making a whole. One
half—inconsequential snatches from her
public life—gives but a stilted impres-
sion of Victoria as ruler of an empire.
Sixty-four years of one of the most
eventful reigns in history needs some-
thing big to put it over convincingly.
Filmgoers who wanted Albert and
Victoria at home were given the best
end of the stick. Albert is the main
theme. His exclusion by Victoria from
matters of government, his domestic
remodelling of the palace, his gradual
assumption of responsibility in the
political sphere, and the unsuccessful
attempts to dispel the British people’s
prejudice against an alien take up most
of the film. Of what’s left, Victoria and
Albert together take a good bite.
The makers of the film dabbled around
with a lot of unnecessary stuff and left
out the necessary. In trying to cram
nearly three-quarters of a century into
a couple of hours they missed the sub-
stance and lost the continuity.
One thing lifts the film —the acting is
first-rate: Anna Neagle and Anton Wal-
brook climb right into their parts and
carry them easily all the way. Walbrook
never for a moment loses the restrained
manner of an alien among strange
people, and Miss Neagle, from the
eighteen-year-old princess to the tired
old Widow of Windsor, brings Victoria
into the present day. Veteran H. B.
Warner does well as Lord Melbourne,
and most of the others make the best of
brief appearances.
As a general impression, it is a film
in which a wonderful opportunity has
been missed, but even so is well worth
a visit.
“Riding on Air.”
Joe E. Brown.
One thing about Joe that appeals to
present film-taster is that his boisterous
humor is a solid laugh-maker without
relying on smut or wisecracks to put it
across. Another, which might account
for his general success, is his ability to
attract sympathy.
It seems a stock recipe that all
comedians of this type should run close
to pathos. An old-fashioned idea per-
haps, but so is most honest humor. Any-
way, it raises the laughs and draws the
crowds.
It probably accounts for the flops of
the Marx Brothers and Laurel and Hardy,
who raise laughs with a somewhat
similar tomfoolery, that at the same time
they approach and sometimes overreach
idiocy and satire without asking for or
getting any sympathy. Idiocy is the
spanner in the works of any comedy, and
satire is either beyond, or for some
reason distasteful to, the average audi-
ence.
Joe strikes a happy medium. He is
probably the best of his kind since
Chaplin, and although he has less scope
than usual in Sydney Capitol’s current
offering he makes the most of it. As
editor and just about everything else of
a small-town newspaper he opens the gap
in his face and puts his foot in it at
every opportunity.
His correspondent job with a leading
Chicago daily, mixed with radio-con-
trolled aeroplanes, a rival paper and
aerial smugglers, and his innocent associ-
ations with a bland con. man make a
sound comedy of the old vintage, very
naive but excellent of its kind.
Florence Rice supplies a light, happy
lurv interest, and Guy Kibbee, who
seems to be at his best in such roles,
is very feasible as the con. man.
Capitol Shorts.
Sydney Capitol is generous with these,
usually handing out about five in addi-
tion to two main features. Present offer-
ing includes a couple of newsreels, a
“Stranger than Fiction” brevity, “Our
Gang” and a spot of froth entitled “Danc-
ing on the Ceiling.”
The last-named makes a fair taster
to the main films, and “Stranger than
Fiction” and “Our Gang” are f.a.q., but
the newsreels are right out of the bag.
They have not one shot or mention of the
Chinese boilover. It comes as a welcome
change after a two or three months’
surfeit of isolated bombings interestingly
photographed, but dangerously supple-
mented with provocative commentaries.
Comments in one piece, however, are
a sample of what’s becoming current in
newsreels. In a shot of Mussolini deco-
rating war widows sarcastic comments
are so inflected as to lower an other-
wise interesting news item to a standard
of crude burlesque. There has been a
lot of this lately, and at the expense of
a country paying tribute to the mothers
of its dead it strikes this showman as
unfair and indecent propaganda.
“She Loved a Fireman ”
Robert Armstrong.
This, at Sydney Capitol, is another
piece of the slick publicity Hollywood
does so well. It’s for the benefit of the
fire brigade, and should send half the
Amurrican youths who see it running to
become firemen.
A bit overcolored in places, it lifts
from the rut of common bellerdrammer
through some genuinely interesting shots
of preparatory training and of fire-fight-
ing equipment, including a snappy
modern fire tug.
Old-stager Robert Armstrong gives a
Holtish performance as the he-man cap-
tain of a brigade who clashes with tough-
guy Dick Foran. Foran joins the
brigade to take a rise out of the cap-
tain, but falls for his sister and finishes
by saving his life.
All old stuff, but it moves easily to a
spectacular finish, with a big burn-up in
building containing a few thousand gal-
lons of petroleum.
“Wife, Doctor and Nurse.”
Warner Baxter, Virginia Bruce and Loretta
Young.
Appealing features of this little
comedy-drama are a light touch, the
likeability of all three sides of the tri-
angle and a liberal sprinkling of unex-
pected incidents that compel laughter.
Baxter as the charming (and, of course,
preternaturally brilliant) surgeon and
Miss Bruce as his tried and trusty nurse
are familiar types. Not so the beau-
teous Loretta, who comes near being
that hitherto undiscovered marvel the
entirely reasonable wife.
Surgeon loves wife, but he can’t get
along without nurse, who, to make
matters difficult, falls in love with him
after his marriage and shows it. The
way in which these three nice people
find a solution for a difficult problem
is not very convincing, but it provides
interesting and clever interplay of charac-
ter and emotion.
A Baxter specialty—getting tight and
sobering up in a hurry—is unfolded at
greater length than usual. Treatment in-
cludes hot fomentations, a scalding
shower, quarts of black coffee and what
looks like half a pint of castor oil, and
seems more likely to aggravate than to
cure the condition.
Previewed at Fox Theatrette, Sydney.
Durbin Voice, Stokowski
Conducting.
Musically considered, interest in ‘TOO
Men and a Girl” (B. 5/l/’38) lies in
Deanna Durbin’s voice and close-ups of
Stokowski in action.
The voice, young, fresh and effort-
lessly produced as it is, owes not a little
of its appeal to the personality of the
vivacious little singer. Despite all sorts
of care in recording and in the selection
of music the upper register is just a little
thin and wheezy.
Miss Durbin is a singer of the new
American regime under which personal
appearance is just as important as voice.
So far as opera is concerned it should be.
The public, however musically con-
scientious, has long been sick of two-ton
prima donnas with three chins pretend-
ing to be consumptive Violettas or
Mimis.
Stokowski, whose fame as conductor
of the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra
is world wide, is heard and seen conduct-
ing the Second Rhapsody of Liszt, the
Prelude to the third act of “Lohengrin”
and the “Alleluia” in F of Mozart. Fie
is an impressive, forceful baton-wielder,
and his shock of white hair is probably
worth an extra ten thousand dollars a
year to him.
Quite evidently, beyond conducting
certain excerpts, he had nothing to do
with the musical details of the film, or he
wouldn’t have stomached even a double
symphony orchestra with 12 double
basses, and would not have called upon
his orchestra to play “Traviata” for
Miss Durbin. “La Traviata” is a three-
act opera. What the young lady warbled
was “Libiamo ne’ lieti calici,” from the
carousal scene in the first act.


Ui
#
1(2
S’The Air-Conditioned State
There you will find relaxation amid scenery reminiscent of
the English counties—lush valleys, panoramic peaks, his-
toric buildings. Sport, too—including trout fishing. Hours
of sunshine, entrancing twilights, bracing climate. Truly a
Tasmanian holiday will be remembered with pleasure
long after you return to your workaday world.
Illustrated literature, details of liner sailings,
fares and accommodation, on request.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
SYDNEY
Martin Place,
opp. G.P.O.
MELBOURNE
"The Block"
Collins St.
BRISBANE
196 Adelaide
Street
ADELAIDE
12 Pirie
Street
PERTH
A.M.P. Bldg.,
William St.
ET
DoN’T miss Indian
Days at Banff .... in
Canada’s Rockies, in
July next on your way
to Europe. Only seen
when you travel via
fd
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly. Co., Inc. in Canada
House For Sale.
PYMBLE, SYDNEY’S SELECT SUBURB.
TWO STOREY BRICK RESIDENCE.
Containing wide entrance hall, 8 fine rooms,
billiard or ballroom, tennis court, sewered, all
offices,
2 GARAGES. 3 LOOSE BOXES.
BRICE, £5OOO.
Standing in 2 acres of land, with two frontages
and commanding excellent views, this property
should appeal to the Country Gentleman or
horse-lover, being only 12 minutes to Pymble
Station and within i-hour of City. Inspection
by appointment with O’SULLIVAN & CO.,
PYMBLE—JX2422.
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDAUBR * CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Here and there enthusiasm is sprout-
ing into a banner or two ready for the
celebrations unfurling. Government
buildings are burgeoning, high above
street level, with red and white supports
for the bunting of rejoicing. Members
of the various committees hurry from
meeting to meeting. What horror if
even one squib sputtered out during the
Venetian carnival; if there was any
anachronism in the pageants! The G.P.
mops its fevered brow in the mean-
time, calls for more and longer cold
drinks and refuses to be excited. Even
the Government House garden party, for
which a snowdrift of pasteboard has
blown into city and suburban letter-
boxes, hasn’t raised any hip-hip-hoorays.
Everybody is hot, clammy and wilted.
One of the exceptions to the general
inertia is the city’s new Mayoress. Mrs.
Norman Nock, pretty, delightful and
energetic, is tackling her job with smil-
ing eyes. She was at the Town Hall re-
ceiving callers on Wednesday, Thursday
and Friday mornings. Husband Norman,
too, was steadily on the job, receiving
callers and replying to letters. Quiet
efficiency seems the keynote of their
entry to office. After being greeted by
Town Clerk Hendy, the new civic chief
was welcomed by heads of the Town Hall
departments. At the entrance to his
room he was greeted by Mayor’s Officer
Robert Schrowder, who has been hailing
and farewelling Sydney Mayors since
1897.
Artists young and old love Dattilo
Rubbo. He paints with vigor ; he has a
smiling eye, a witty tongue. His wife is
just as popular. So when the two sent
out invitations for a cocktail party every-
one who got a card came running. The
artist’s studio above Bligh-street was
seething with humans of many languages
last Friday. As for the lovely food, it
was more peace-making than the League
of Nations. The meats of rejoicing from
every country in Europe popped up on
the long buffet at the top of the great
room flooded with summer twilight. The
party was in honor of Cavalliere Rubbo’s
doctor son and son’s young bride. The
doctor and his wife go to Melbourne,
where he has an appointment as senior
lecturer in bacteriology.
Mrs. Dattilo Rubbo’s ivory lace tunic
was worn with a long skirt of black
crepe. Mrs. Sydney Dattilo Rubbo, who
stood beside her husband for over an
hour receiving good wishes, wore a silk
frock patterned in green and white. Her
black hat was large and becoming. Large
hats sprang up all over the room, but in
between it must be owned there were hats
with no brim at all. Mrs. Florence
Taylor wore a hat of great size ; so did
Mrs. Dangerfield. The acting-Consul for
Italy, Dr. Marocco, and his fair-haired
wife were among the guests ; Dr. and
Mrs. Baccarini, the Will Ashtons, Count
Pietrasanta, tall Erik Langker and Prof.
Waterhouse were glimpsed. Nina Benti-
voglio, Flora Danciger, Prince del
Drago, the Archie Aspinalls, Mrs. Fer-
rari Passmore and John Lane Mullins
were a few of the guests.
From January 14 to the 20th it will
be a case of “Learnin’ on the Spree.”
University women from all the States
are coming to Sydney for the eighth
biennial conference of the Australian
Federation of Uni. Women, and in be-
tween discussions what may be termed
a cavalcade of teas, receptions, sea and
beach picnics, also dinners, will step
bravely forward. Camilla Wedgwood,
principal of the Women’s College, opens
the gaieties with a reception in the Forum
Club on Friday evening. The Women
Graduates weigh in with a reception at
Elizabeth Bay House and a dinner. The
Sheldon lady, Mrs. Leon Lyons, Miss
K. Egan and Mrs. Walter Burfitt are
spreading a de luxe tea party at Rose
Bay Golf Club.
The principal dish of the conference
will be the discussion on the status of
University women in the world to-day,
with hors d’oeuvres and dessert in the
form of talks on Governor Phillip, the
Australian aborigine, Art, particularly the
murals and suchlike works in America
which were the outcome of Government
commissions during the depression. This
last will be spoken by Margaret Preston.
The learned and amiable Dame Constance
D’Arcy, who is president of the Federa-
tion, will deliver her address at three
o’clock next Monday in the Women’s
College. This will be washed down by
tea at the invitation of the Women
Graduates. Brows starry with learning
will decorate the big talks, among them
those of Freda Bage, of Brisbane, Dr.
Georgina Sweet, of Melbourne, Mrs.
Lewis, Mrs. C. E. Dolling, Eleanor
Plummer and Violet Plummer, of
Adelaide.
It’s many a long day since Lieutenant
Johnston, of the Royal Marines, sailed
into Sydney Cove with the First Fleet.
One of his descendants, Mrs. W. A. Ling-
ham, smiles out from this picture. She is
president of the Women Pioneers’ Club,
and has held this office since the club’s
inception. The big rockets in the first
week of the 150th birthday fireworks are
the Pioneer Ball in the Town Hall and
the reception at Elizabeth Bay House, so
Mrs. Lingham is, and will be for the next
few weeks, one of the busiest women in
the State. The dance will glitter with
the blue and gold of the U.S.A. Navy as
well as with period frocking. A great
many of the officers have accepted invi-
tations. This should win the commenda-
tion of the debs., of whom there will be
35 in spreading white taffeta and
organdie. One of them is Betty Ling-
ham, a granddaughter of the subject of
this picture. She represents the sixth
generation of the family founded by
Lieutenant Johnston. Photograph from
Dayne.
The Dino Borgiolis came to Sydney in
the Cathay last week very excited over
his opening with the A.B.C. grand-opera
season to-night. The Mort family was
down at the wharf in some force to
meet the tenor and his wife, who was a
Mort, but who has lived so long abroad
she might be considered a cosmopolitan.
It is, for instance, 14 years since she has
been in her native land. In the mean-
time she has travelled constantly in
Europe, for wherever her husband sings
there also is Mrs. Borgioli. They keep
a flat in London, and that is handy when
Dino sings, as he often does, at Covent
Garden. The writer heard him in this
historic opera house in company with
the dazzling little Supervia. Ann O’Con-
nor, of Pymble, a niece of Mrs. Mort,
travelled home in the Cathay. Kalua,
Edgecliff, will be the Borgiolis’ Sydney
address.
The Sydney Grammar School Dett-
manns have gone all travel-minded. Mrs.
Dettmann was just back from her jour-
neys in Europe when daughter Ellis em-
barked on hers. Ellis will linger in Bom-
bay for pleasure before going on to
London. Denise Dettmann is now at
Oxford. Somerville is her house. The
two sisters and Una Fitzhardinge, who
is at Hughes College, will have a great
reunion. Father and mother farewelled
Ellis with a sherry party at their home
in Gordon last week.
Jessica Chard’s special instrument is
the piano, and her talent and pretty looks
have often graced charity concert plat-
forms. She has just gained her Mus.A.
diploma from the Con., where she studies
with Lindley Evans. Playing the violin
and studying foreign languages are
among Jessica’s pursuits. Her parents
are the Athelstane Chards, of Bellevue
Hill. Photograph from Monte Luke.
Another of Sydney’s handsome bache-
lors has succumbed to Cupid. Dr. Erik
Fischer, Vice-Consul for Denmark, is to
many the dancer who won us with her
great art during the Monte Carlo Ballet
season. Helene Kirsova is now on the
Strathnaver on her way back to Aus-
tralia, a country she loved from the time
she saw it in 1936, when she arrived with
the Ballet. Dr. Fischer, talking to this
Letter last week, said “Is she not delight-
ful?” And the answer was an emphatic
“Yes.” He also admitted that the wed-
ding would be before the end of the
month in St. Mark’s at Darling Point,
and that there would be a quiet recep-
tion in a near-by Darling Point home.
Warner Brothers have a new theatrette
for previews above Elizabeth-street. This
is an artistic nest, rose-lined and with
seating accommodation for about 80. An
afternoon party surrounding the arrival
from America of Mrs. Hummel, wife of
one of the W.B. co.’s chiefs, brought a
flutter of women in the sheerest of
summer clothes to the pretty little band-
box of a theatre. A color picture show-
ing Sydney and Melbourne, their wide
streets and Botanic Gardens, our harbor
and Zoo, and Centralia with the abos. in
fire dances and boomerang-throwing was
absorbing.
Nothing could have been more pleas-
ing to an audience of women than the
“David Garrick” film. Brian Aherne,
slim and graceful, carried the brocades
and old laces of the great David with
perhaps a shade too conscious an air.
The divine Davie, we are told, was short
of stature. Still Brian’s voice was weighted
with honey when he spoke of love to the
beauteous Olivia de Havilland. Dorothy
Flukes had cleverly arranged the after-
noon, and the moment the picture faded
laden teatrays were carried along the
rows of chairs in the manner of big cities
across the ocean. Mrs. Hummel smiled
on everybody.
Colin Clark, who sandwiched Sydney
between his native Devon and his Pro-
fessorship of Economics at the Perth
Uni., has a neat verbal back-drive for
chaff-mongers. Before he went his way
to Westralia some friends gave him a
dinner at the Pioneers’ Club. During the
dinner one of the lads remarked to Colin
that the chief difference between the Aus-
tralian and the Englishman was that the
Australian timed his days to “One Glad
Sweet Song” and the Englishman paced
his to the “Psalm of Life.” In return
Colin told a story. He said that just before
his departure from England he was walk-
ing in Cambridge, where he had been
doing some research, and he met an Eng-
lish friend. He told this friend he was
coming to Australia. The man gave him
a bewildered look, and said in a puzzled
voice: “Good Lord! I didn’t know you
were an anthropologist!”
The best thing that the women’s com-
mittees and councils connected with the
anniversary have done is the planting of
a garden in memory of the pioneers. This
garden is in the Botanic Gardens, within
coo-ee of the Mitchell Library, and its
leaf and herb will keep the memory of
Australia’s forebears green while time
does its best to turn to dust the written
words concerning them housed within
the Mitchell. Laid out on part of the
site of the Garden Palace Exhibition, the
new pleasaunce is set amid trees. The
centrepiece will be a statuary group by a
Victorian sculptor. Lady Gowrie has an
engagement to open the living memorial
in February.
There are some murmurings among
very young women over the suddenness
with which the 150th birthday doings
tread on the heels of Christmas spending.
Here are cards for balls and parties, and
the allowance account drained of its last
sou. What’s to be done for new frocks?
Well, daddy will know the answer to
that one when the bills come in at the
end of the month. All the chiffons will
have to be crisp, the satins suave, for the
Queen’s Club Ball on the third of Feb-
ruary. This will fill the Town Hall with
the expensive and the exclusive. A few
debutantes will spangle the night, among
them a young granddaughter of the
Philip Street lady, who is the president
of the Queen’s, that old rampart of Syd-
ney’s Who’s Who.
There will be about 3000 gathered into
the Mayoral reception on January 26.
A few thousand will browse on the lawns
of Government House on the 28th. Over
800 are booked for the Women Pioneers’
gathering in the evening. The Empire
Society’s lunch on the same day will just
squeeze into the Trocadero. This will
bristle with Governors, scintillate with
guests from overseas, and will have light
wines, lager, cigars and cigarettes
chucked in for the price of the lunch.
This is ten shillings. The vice-regals
(State and Federal) are no doubt thumb-
ing Mrs. Beeton, concentrated on the
effort to bring variety into the series of
dinners they can see looming ahead. And
there’s to be a reception at Admiralty
House on the night of the Venetian car-
nival on Port Jackson.
The poet Shaw Neilson will be among
the gallery of portraits submitted for the
Archibald Prize. Its painter, Ted Turner,
treasures the canvas so much that he
travelled to Sydney with it. Ted is ap-
parently addicted to poets. When this
Letter met him he was walking and talk-
ing with Rod Quinn. Ted is a pupil of
Justus Jorgenson, and is one of the Mel-
drum school.


Ihi& te/ded and p/uwed
FLDDBEffiSrn
&UA R
pTf^ o
TToiW 555 ' f ° B
For samples and illus. folder post
free write to Dept. 5, Box 3281
PP„ G.P.0., Sydney.
m
n
LLbfc
H
Make the WENTWORTH
your Home while in Sydney
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality. You
are treated with the consideration you would meet with
in your own home. Although close to business and
social centres, the Wentworth is situated in an elevated
position away from trams, trains and other annoying
influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms have* just been added and
a 24-hour hot water service.
WENTWORTH HOTEL
SYDNEY
C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
J. S. LEVY, Manager.
Melbourne
chatter
On the first day of the international
tennis several thousand people exercised
their vituperative powers on Melbourne
weather. Many of them were wet
through, and several paid their money
and either went home after seeing only
a fevv games or endured the two hours
among the wind- and rain-swept tiers of
seats until play was resumed. Even
cushions were not always good friends,
for the rain caused a strange mingling
of dyes which did no good to overcoats.
The folk with umbrellas were glad of
their habitual distrust of a sky that looked
safe in the morning, and those with rugs
crawled under them like Eskimos into
their igloos.
Among those noticed making for home
in a lull after a very heavy shower were
the Gerald Pattersons, Mrs. Patterson
wearing a three-quarter-length white
coat; Mrs. Norman Carlyon, in black,
with a Mary Queen o’ Scots hat;
Dorothy Stirling, who wore a grey suit;
Heather McKellar and Sheila Creswick,
who were together; Ron Forbes, in a
brown overcoat, and Mrs. Forbes finding
her white oilskin invaluable on such a
day. Mrs. Hugh Syme wore a tailored
suit and Mrs. Oswald Benjamin black
with speckles of white. Mary Baillieu’s
oiled silk umbrella was a parchment-
colored protection for her tweed suit.
Mrs. Sladen Gibson and Kathleen Gepp
arrived late in the afternoon, took a
look at the drenched crowds from the
shelter of Guelda Pyke’s car and de-
cided that discretion and hot tea at home
were better than valor and an indeter-
minate wait.
The second day of the international
tennis at Kooyong was a repetition of
the first as regards weather —showers
coming and going ; crowds running for
shelter; the clubhouse full of people
wringing water out of soaked clothes.
The vice-regal people were present, and
also took part in the scamper for safety.
On Saturday 11,000 enthusiasts pre-
pared for the worst with winter clothes
and umbrellas, but the sun came out and
baked them, so that sensible men removed
their coats. It was a perfect day for
the open air, and all had their money’s
worth in the brilliant displays by the
competitors. Not another sardine could
have been squeezed into the packed
stands; even in the exclusive life-members’
enclosure some people stood all the after-
noon. Noticed in the throng were Mrs.
Ronnie Macpherson and Pat Newbigin,
both in tailored suits ; Dr. Buller Allen,
who found a seat on the edge of the
grass ; John Lowry, plus umbrella, also
on the rim of the lawn; Max Cooch ;
Noel Frankenberg, all in brown ; Mar-
garet Cox, Helen Speeding and a country
visitor, John Gray. Gottfried von Cramm
and Donald Budge said all the right
things in their short speeches at the con-
clusion of the matches, when silver
salvers were presented to each of the
German players.
Gottfried von Cramm was guest of
honor at a cocktail party given by
Mrs. Gordon Chirnside. The set-
ting was Mrs. Simon Fraser’s lovely
home and garden in South Yarra. Cap-
tain and Mrs. Chirnside’s four children
enjoyed the party very much indeed.
Judy and June helped their parents re-
ceive the guests, and the boys, who are in
the junior house at Geelong Grammar
School, found much to interest them in
the four reception-rooms, on the veran-
dah and in the garden, where one can
stroll at will through formal landscape
or natural bush.
The function was perfectly arranged :
numerous waiters seemed to anticipate
every want, and all manner of drinks
were procurable, from champagne cock-
tails to cold beer. Among guests present
were tall visitor Nellie, Countess of Hard-
wicke, and also a traveller from Ireland,
Mrs. A. R. C. Gordon, who came with
Mrs. Osborne Fairbairn, with whom she
has been staying at Banongil. Mrs. Lach-
lan Mackinnon was welcomed by many
friends whom she had not seen since her
return from abroad. Mrs. R. G. Casey’s
lively humor kept her the centre of a
conversational group. Noticed also in
the throng were two sisters, Mrs. Ford
Guthrie and Mrs. John Wallace, and the
George Armstrongs, with their daughter
Pamela. Mrs. Chester Guest looked par-
ticularly striking all in black, with a large
black hat.
Every man to his taste, even if it
means camping at Lome. There, through
the holidays, campers under canvas along
the banks of the creek were as thick as
rabbits. They lived as “one big family,”
tents jambed so closely together that cry-
ing babies and people who snored were
everybody’s affair. So also was the com-
munity music, with rival crooners going
flat out in different keys. The übiquitous
trailer was everywhere on country roads
during the holidays, and trucks were
taken away from their usual routine to
carry holidaymakers and holiday gear—
their passengers often travelling in the
comparative luxury of mattresses and
deck chairs. Caravans were plentiful,
bicycles were few, and no car with any
life left in it was considered too old or
too battered to be called into service.
Katherine Herd, whose photograph is
by Broothorn, came from England a
few weeks ago to spend four months’
holiday with her relatives in Melbourne.
Miss Herd trained as a nurse at the
Royal Melbourne Hospital, and went off
on her first trip overseas in 1925 for
pleasure, but in the hope of seeing some-
thing of the world by way of her pro-
fession. Her travelling companions were
her sister Florence (a sports-mistress),
Margot Begg and another nurse, Dorothy
Mclntyre. In London Miss Herd joined
a nurses co-operation and was never out
°£ J obs . ) on 8f r than she wanted to be
taking her first special case at the
fashionable 31 Queen s Gate, where 7}
B ume f s P er week A ls asked ( or the best
P rooms. Among other wealthy
patients she attended was Prince Youssop
Kemal, of Egypt, at the Victoria Hotel,
and an Amencan millionaire at the
Carlton.
It was b a coinciden ce that she gave
up nursing to undertake surgical cor-
se F try an( f the science of * made _ to _
measure foundation garments. She has
i earned the from the beginning,
dnds d congenial, well paid and interest-
j n g and not near iy as tiring as nursing.
p or three and a half years she has been
at Marshall and Snelgrove’s, and has
been p romo ted to be assistant manager-
ess Q £ t he de p ar tment, to which position
she wiU re turn when her leave is up in
February. Miss Herd makes her home
in London with the James Shuters. Mrs.
Shuter is her sister Florence, who before
she married was also successful at find-
ing jobs—one of which was a trip round
the world as governess-companion to the
child of wealthy American parents,
Florence and Katherine are both excel-
lent contract-bridge players and take
part in duplicate tournaments.
Among visitors to Anglesea during the
first week of the new year was Romney
Cole, who took a couple of days’ holi-
day for surfing in honor of 1938. Rom-
ney is a son of the late Dr. Hobill Cole
and of Mrs. Cole, of Mornington, and
came to Victoria six months ago after
being some time in the north-west and
west of N.S.W. His bachelor homestead
near Moriac has plenty of windows with
extensive views of sheep browsing in the
great open spaces, and contains a library,
a piano and a battery radio. On the
garden gate is “Beware of the Dog.” In
the distant past this possibly meant a
bite ; now it’s a riotous welcome of leaps
and bounds from two dogs, one a kelpie,
the other a fox-terrier pup. Mr. Cole
has recently sampled some of the vicissi-
tudes of domestic responsibilities, for his
excellent cook was lured away to a sea-
side hotel for the summer holidays.
In the Broothorn photograph is Bonnie
Campbell, daughter of Melbourne’s Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress. Bonnie, who
is engaged to Colin Lewis, has fixed her
wedding-day for Wednesday, May 4;
the date of her parents’ marriage anni-
versary, even to the day, for they also
were married on a Wednesday. The
Campbell family is spending a holiday
at Inverloch in a house away from the
township in the unspoilt surroundings of
Eagle’s Nest. On January 22 Cr. and
Mrs. Campbell will leave for the celebra-
tions in Sydney.
The Fred Krcrouse couple are enjoy-
ing the summer in the new home they
have just built at Belleura Hill, Morn-
ington. It’s called Lancashire Cottage,
for Mrs. Krcrouse comes from the coun-
try of Lancashire lasses —but the “cot-
tage” is just a figure of speech. The
house contains up- and downstairs, sun
porches, several charmingly furnished
lounges and bedrooms and many bath-
rooms. From the windows there is a
magnificent view from Frankston to the
Heads. In the bushy garden which
climbs down the cliff to the beach a
spring has been cajoled into lingering a
while as a rock pool. Mr. Krcrouse finds
the drive from Mornington to Melbourne
very pleasant, and not too far to keep
him from watching the cricket matches
Q.f which he is so fond.
There was something of a family feel-
ing about the regatta which is an annual
event of the summer holidays on the
Anglesea River. The boats are racing
dinghies (more dinghy than racing, for
the seats are fixtures). The crews don’t
worry about split-second records, but are
satisfied to battle into a north wind in
innumerable heats of two boats in each
heat. This year the winners were the
Hume family, the crew being the five
sons of W. R. Hume, managing director
of the Hume Pipe Co., with David, the
youngest, as cox.
Vanquished holders of the cup were
Stanley Macmillan and his three eldest
sons. Jervis Belcher, of Geelong, was
cox (of unorthodox weight, but no
one minded) for some of the entrants
in women’s races. A few days previously
Mr. Belcher entertained some of his
friends at Red Rocks for a barbecue.
Instead of an animal roasted whole there
were chops which went down easily, five
apiece being the average number required
by open-air appetites. Ice was a welcome
addition to the picnic, and stacks of cakes
and ice-cream were popular with the
children who took part in the fun.
Radios from Mr. Belcher’s and Stanley
Macmillan’s cars tuned in to the same
station to provide an aural background
for the succulent sniffs from the bush
fireplace.
Mrs. C. F. T. Blythe and Mrs. A. R.
C. Gordon, both prominent in the Guid-
ing movement overseas, were guests of
honor at a tea party given by the Deputy-
Commissioner for Victorian Girl Guides,
Mrs. Frank Faulkner. Mrs. Blythe, who
is a pioneer of Guiding, wore an insignia
of honor presented to her in India by
Parsee Guides. She is also the possessor
(though she didn’t wear it on this occa-
sion) of the highest and most coveted
token of Guiding, the silver fish.
Instead of making a formal address
Mrs. Blythe spoke conversationally, in-
viting questions from fellow-Guides. At
her story of “pilgrimages” a collective
idea was born among the listeners that
the same thing might be done to-day.
When the movement was in its infancy
Guides used to go holiday-tramping
with haversacks on their backs, and in
return for being put up for the night in
private homes, schools or barns they
would do a good deed for the owner of
the property. It might have been giving
a concert for a village charity or some-
thing mundane like whitewashing the
barn. Mrs. Blythe’s married daughter
is following in her mother’s footsteps
by organising a Brownie troupe at Basrah,
where she lives on a date plantation.
Co-guest of honor, Mrs. Gordon, is
travelling to Sydney for the celebrations
with her husband, Colonel Gordon, of
the Empire Parliamentary Association.
Other visitors who were made welcome
included Miss Lyons, of Portsmouth,
England, and Miss Cobb, who is staying
with her sister-in-law, Mrs. F. S. Cobb,
of Brighton. Miss Cobb comes from
M.L., where her Guiding responsibilities
are taken up in being “head of exten-
sions,” which work is in connection with
sick and convalescent Guides.


PAYMENT BY CHEQUE
• CONVENIENT
• SIMPLE
• SAFE
CONVENIENT because with a Rural Bank
cheque account you no longer need to go
from place to place in person —you merely
send a cheque.
SIMPLE because with the necessary credit
you can write a cheque anywhere, at any
time . . . and it stamps you as being
businesslike.
SAFE because you need not keep a large
amount of cash on hand, yet your resources
are readily available.
That is why nine-tenths of the business
transactions in Australia are settled by
cheque . . . why, if you do not use a cheque
account, you should consider opening one
with this Bank.
Interest-bearing Fixed Deposits are also
accepted (from £5 upwards) at all branches.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners: C. R. McKerihan (President), 11. Rogers, P. Kearns
Personal and Missing Friends.
SMlLEY.—Wanted, DANIEL WILLIAM
ARCHIBALD SAUL SMILEY, bom at North
Leith, Scotland, resided later in East End of
London. Left for Australia before the war, in
which believed to have fought with Austra-
lian forces. He or his issue will hear some-
thing to their advantage on application to
SMILES & CO., 15 Bedford Row, London,
England.
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts
of RUBY ISABEL WARDROPE, formerly of
Balmain, or any person able to give information
as to her whereabouts since the 10th November,
1927, kindly communicate with the under-
signed? The said Ruby Isabel Wardrope is
entitled to certain moneys, and it is intended
that an application be made to the Probate
Court for leave to presume her death.
MERVYN FINLAY, Solicitor,
Newlands House,
141 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE GLOUCESTER COUNTY COURT.
In the Matter of the Trusts of the Will of
GEORGE JONES Deceased late of Cin-
derford Gloucestershire England.
In the Estate of WILLIAM CORDWIN De-
ceased late of Cinderford Gloucestershire
England.
TAKE NOTICE that application having been
made in the County Court holden at Glou-
cester by Maurice Frederic Carter Solicitor
of Newnham in the county aforesaid a creditor
for the payment out of court out of certain
funds lodged there by the trustees of the said
GEORGE JONES deceased in November 1905
it is ordered that the sum found to be due after
taxation be paid out of court to the said
creditor together with the costs of the said
application Any person claiming to have an
interest in the said funds should give notice
to the Registrar of the said Court within three
calendar months from this day.
DATED this 22nd day of November, 1937.
O. J. WILLIAMS,
Registrar.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.
DIVORCE.
TO ERIC RONALD LAMB whose last known
address is Ellingerrin Station near Geelong
in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice to
you to appear and answer the charges in the
petition of ELEANOR JANE LAMB of Port-
land in the State of Victoria praying for dis-
solution of marriage IN DEFAULT of your
so appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said petition proved and pronounce judg-
ment in respect thereto AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid before the 12th day of February
1938 an appearance must be entered at the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania
Macquarie Street Hobart.
R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
&
rC
rC.
y id
o*v>
When a WOMAN
tells you
that people often take her
for years younger than
she is,
that she puts this down to
her white teeth,
that she puts those down to
the fact she’s used noth-
ing but Calvert’s Tooth
Powder since she left
Well, don’t you think it is school
worth trying for your teeth!
M % d^fManche B ter.^and.
p . C. CALVERT &C°-
*5
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
At the Weld Club Ball, a fixture where
programmes and shoulder-high white kid
are still de rigueur, vases of hydrangeas,
red-hot pokers and agapanthus formed a
background for the best bibs and tuckers
of the womenfolk, and the cool lawns
were dotted with flowery sitting-out
arbors. President Norman Temperley,
with his blue-lame-draped other-half
alongside, shook hands in the entrance
hall, and daughter Dorothy, in white-
and-silver cotelle, had no difficulty in fill-
ing her programme. Mrs. Ednie Brown
bordered the edge of her caped scarlet
crepe with fur, Norma Rolland held up
wine velvet draperies with gold shoulder
straps, and Pat Leake swung a volumin-
ous silver cape over pleatings of white
chiffon.
Another early 1938 festivity was that
of the Cottesloe Golf Club. A misty
floral scheme of pink hydrangeas, blue
agapanthus and spiky smokebush pre-
vailed throughout the clubrooms, and
twinkling rows of fairy lights led the
way to the refreshment marquees on the
lawns and first tee. Mrs. Geoffrey Hill
wound lengths of American candy-striped
chiffon round her slimness, Mrs. Bill
Broadhurst draped green-and-gold tartan
taffetas into a bustle effect, and Mrs. Oscar
Copley and Mrs. Keith Hodge frilled
and caped their flowery white ninons.
Dorothy Kirby wrapped a mauve-and-
green sash round white chiffons cut
Grecianwise, and Mrs. Stanley Brear-
ley shoulder-sprayed her floral lame with
stephanotis.
A behatted bride of the week was
Muffle Broadhurst, whose marriage to
Hedley Porter, of South Perth, linked
two old Westralian families. Draped tur-
quoise satin-backed marocain, sashed
with tan satin, clad the bride, and her
drooping turquoise Baku hat was swathed
with tan georgette to match the russet
gladioli of the bouquet. Maude Dun-
man followed in a tailored jumper suit
of coffee linen lace, hatted with natural
ballibuntal. Bride’s brother and sister-
in-law, the Bill Broadhursts, threw open
hospitable doors for cocktails, after
which the bridal party went on to the
Weld Club Ball. The Hedley Porters’
home will be in Adelaide.
Molly Learmonth was responsible for
the effective Japanese decorative scheme
at Karrinyup Country Club’s early-in-the-
year revel. The clubhouse was strung
with flickering lanterns, arches of wis-
taria and almond-blossom adorned the
ballroom, and Oriental objets d’art re-
placed the usual modern potteries in the
lounges. Mrs. R. A. Cameron looped up
the train of her silver-threaded white
cloque, Mrs. Eric Sandover, on the eve
of departure for a holiday in India with
Major and Mrs. Mervyn Hobbs, sported a
scarlet blossom on the skirt of her black
crepe, and Margot Law’s azure-blue chif-
fons were strapped and belted with finely-
stitched cloth of silver.
Dr. and Mrs. Theodore Ambrose char-
tered the Karrakatta Club for their
cheery cocktail dance. The hostess’s
black floral chiffons were topped with
transparent-brimmed picture headgear as
she stood at the club portals with her
husband. Tall tubs of growing hydran-
geas were backgrounded with Japanese
plum foliage round the walls of the ball-
room, and the cocktail tables were decked
with large white Marguerite daisies in
shadowy green glass bowls.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Victor Harbor seems to be the State’s
Mecca at the moment. Many who
usually take their families further afield
are down there. William Sowden and
his lady, who returned from overseas
just before Christmas, have had such a
steady stream of visitors that they have
hardly had time to visit the city. They
gave a cocktail party for 50 guests, all
visitors from Adelaide staying at the
Harbor. The Sowden lady arranged for
the younger folk to have one end of the
spacious glass-enclosed verandah to
themselves.
The Sowdens each year grant permis-
sion for some contingent of Boy Scouts
to camp on their large grounds, through
which runs the Hindmarsh River. The
Hawthorn troop, which camped there
this year, was delighted with the kan-
garoos and peacocks which wander in
a large enclosure. But the finest of the
peacocks was not keen about the visitors.
He flew away over a 6ft. high wire-
netting, with Scouts anxious to do their
good deed for the day in pursuit. When
the bird was cornered, to the horror of
the boys, all the feathers of his superb
tail dropped out in a heap. It is the
time of year when the peacock moults,
but he generally does it more gradual-
like.
Once again Adelaide and Melbourne
have been linked by matrimony. At
Melbourne Grammar School chapel
Ivan James, of Adelaide, whose parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon James, formerly
resided in Adelaide, but now live in Mel-
bourne, wed Edna, youngest daughter
of Mrs. A. G. Futcher, of Caulfield, and
the late A. G. Futcher. The bride’s mag-
nolia-toned silk crepe was cut on princess
lines with a plaited girdle, and the tulle
veil was held in place by a halo of
orange-blossom. Bridegroom's sister
Geraldine was bridesmaid in white
organdie, with a halo of lilies-of-the-
valley. Toasts were honored at Menzies.
“Something old” was featured at the
marriage of Francis lan Showed, of
Renmark, younger son of Mr. and Mrs.
Harry Showed, of Medindie, to Fee
Josephine, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. F. A. Cunningham, of Renmark,
which was celebrated at St. Augustine’s
Church, Renmark. The bride’s Honiton
lace veil had belonged to her great-great-
grandmother, and had been first worn
200 years ago. Bride’s gown of white
satin was made on princess lines merg-
ing into a train, a halo of shirred white
satin holding the veil in place. Her
sister Betty and Audrey Baker attended
in gold raindrop satin, with shoulder veils
of tulle to match with haloes of corded
satin. The newly-weds departed on a
motor tour of Vic., N. S. Wales and
Queensland.
Elizabeth, daughter of W. Champion
Hackett, of Kent Town, has returned
after having spent a year in South
Africa with her brother-in-law, Prof.
A. E. M. Kirkwood, and his wife. Mr.
Kirkwood was recently appointed Pro-
fessor of English at Stellenbosch Univer-
sity. Lectures are given in Afrikaans.
Mrs. Bussell will leave England next
month, returning to Adelaide on a visit.
She will stay with Miss Lewis, sister of
Mrs. A. Nutter Thomas, wife of the
Bishop of Adelaide. While in England
Mrs. Bussell was the guest of her brother,
Bishop Harmer, of Kew, one-time Bishop
of Adelaide.
TASMANIA.
The holiday season didn’t seem quite
like itself because of the iip. quarantining
regulations for kiddies, and one missed
the hordes of youngsters in the shops and
on the beaches. However, it was other-
wise a cheerful time, and there seemed
to be plenty of money knocking about.
Cole’s Bay was the favorite holiday
place for many southerners. Among
others who motored up there and either
camped or stayed in one or other of the
established permanent camps were Mr.
and Mrs. Alec McGregor, Mrs. C. N.
Atkins and Barbara, and Mr. Evelyn
Ward.
The Dawn Festival, arranged with
much care and ceremony, was a washout
in a literal sense, since Wellington chose
to wrap its summit in rain and mist just
at the time appointed. However, fully
1000 people went up to what might have
been an impressive function. Most
mountains, from Everest to Wellington,
seem to resent having their privacy
invaded.
Patricia Wilson and lan Wishart Smith
were married at St. Mary’s Cathedral,
with none of the usual frills, but a few
days beforehand the George Wilsons had
a cocktail party at Hadley’s, where
friends met to drink the health of the
pair. The bride-to-be wore a “Good
Earth” frock with bolero, and very smart
brown hat.
Dr. Freeman’s fiancee, Peggy Mc-
Mahon (Syd.), is staying in Hobart, get-
ting acquainted with her future in-laws.
R. N. Clarke’s very jolly cocktail party
at his mother’s home in Sandy Bay was
given for the newly-engaged pair.
Kathleen Blackwood, daughter of
Archdeacon and Mrs. D. B. Blackwood,
is home on holiday, having got her de-
grees of Bachelor of Medicine and
Bachelor of Surgery at Melbourne. She
is going back to take up a job at the
Alfred Hospital after she has had a rest.
Joan Gaunt and Marie Vranisan
(Launceston) have gone to Brisbane to
play in the inter-State tennis matches.
The Merson Coopers (Melb.) have
come over for their annual visit, and
will probably remain till after the races.


let’s all
ENJOY LIFE!
all have a
good time ALL
the time! Why not!
Whoopee! No grouch-
ers no shirkers. Dance
merrily through life
feeling as fit as a fiddle
and ready to blow our
trumpets whh the best!
Paint the old town red
if we wish... with never
a bad pie ad or a touch of indigestion
to follow. For Yeaston
Tablets will keep us
up to the mark . . .
Get ’em at any
pharmacy in 2'- or
4'6 bottles.
f
d
A
fd
Y EASTON
TABLETS
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne,
ALL TOOL-USERS NEED IT
. . . and it’s free!
61
s< £
•: '
ifilllll!
*
w
m
a
ii
i' « t * ? s'
i\\ i 'ft - i $M "H iQ
< 5 s'
' S < : : >
1r l 3 > 0 | 1 Si |l; S i ' : ;;I >% J '1
r • ‘'.‘- r i • f n -i r & ' i
m
:%$
TOOLS
for
EVERY JOB
in
EVERY TRADE .
OUR LATEST
CATALOGUE
Send for your
free copy TO-DAY!
£Phersc
Proprietary Limited
51 Bathurst Street .... Sydney
546 Collins Street . . Melbourne
and at
Adelaide and Perth.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: They have grit and plenty of
presence of mind in the Territory. Bod-
dington, the manager of Mainoru, was
on his way home from Mataranka when
his car sank in the mud. He started to
jack up the back axle, which slipped off
the jack, one of the wheels pinning his
right hand to earth. Boddington thought
it over, and decided that the only thing
to do was to dig the wheel into the
ground until the axle came to rest.
With the help of an army corps
of sandflies and mosquitoes during the
night and a burning sun next day, he
managed the job with his left hand in
14 hours. Then he had a rest and drove
home.
“Dick Tafone”: In a speech
at Dalgety’s last annual meet-
ing in London, R. E. O’Hara,
a Downs pastoralist of 30 years
ago, described the State of
Queensland as containing 13
times as many acres as the Bible
contains letters not words,
letters, he emphasised. Queens-
“I say, Zulu, isn't there a whip with the outfit?”
landers of a theological turn of
mind are now accusing him of gross and
detrimental understatement. The Author-
ised Version, according to Dr. Cruden,
of the Concordance, contains 773,692
words, comprising 3,566,480 letters, of
which some two-thirds are in the Old
Testament. Instead of 13 times, Queens-
ed ß 429,120,000 acres are, in reality,
nearly 120 times the number of the let-
ters in the Scriptures. But no Queens-
lander who knew the genial detractor
during his 20-odd years at Glenelg, near
Warwick, will bear any grudge against
bim fr>r hk error
" * *’ * *
“Atrax”: Mention kauri, and nine
Australians out of ten will regard it as
essentially a Maoriland timber. Asa
matter of fact, out of 15 species of kauri,
M.L. has only one. Queensland has
three, and the rest are distributed be-
tween New Guinea and some of the
Pacific islands. Queensland’s biggest
species runs to 150 ft. high, with a butt-
girth up to 30ft. in recorded specimens.
Lake Barrine, on the Atherton Plateau
(N.Q.), claims the largest living kauri in
Australia, with a girth of 29ft. A giant
specimen at Kin Kin (S.Q.) fell a victim
to a storm a few years ago. It measured
23ft. at the butt and 19ft. at the centre
on a 78ft. trunk.
*.* * *
“M. Turlutu”: Queensland’s Dep.~
Dir. of Posts and Telegraphs, complain-
ing of Brisbane’s backwardness in
numbering buildings to facilitate postal
deliveries, recently suggested to Lud-
mayor Jones that they get on to the job
as a joint committee of two. “Alfie’s”
tart rejoinder was to the effect that if
Mr. Corbett would arrange for anew
General Post Office his council would
give it a number immediately. Bris-
bane’s rate- and tax-ridden citizenry
smiles wearily at the fact that neither
the Ludmayor’s depreciated City Hall
nor Mr. Corbett’s antique and incon-
venient ruin bears a number.
* * * *
“Ex-Roundsman”: The holiday season
brought a curiously coincidental family
reunion in Brisbane. Two brothers, cele-
brating in different suburbs, were given
taxi-rides to the city watch-house. Arriv-
ing simultaneously, they greeted each
other with great heartiness —they had not
met for 25 years, and neither had any
idea that the other was in Queensland.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: A recent amendment to
Queensland’s Workers’ Accommodation
Act, making wire-gauze fly-screening
compulsory for quarters uesd by pas-
toral employees, affords a fine example
of bureaucratic ignorance and disregard
of practical conditions. Nearly every
such building is floored with un-
tongued timber, and a dry spell or two
allows all the flies that want to get in
ample access through the cracks. In
hot weather the interference with air-
movement makes screened buildings in-
sufferably hot. So far as cooking and
eating apartments are concerned, it is
the invariable practice of shearing cooks
to either prop the fly-door open in order
to give them free passage when full-
handed, or to kick it open, with the
result that holes are made in the wire.
Protests from the United Graziers’ Asso-
ciation have elicited the reply that Cabinet
will not reconsider the matter for at least
six months, and that the work has got to
be done.
"Australia Jane's" Budget.
Mrs. Ernest Paspall, hon. sec. of the
Queensland Ladies’ Amateur Fishing
Club, is basking in the glory of having
caught a tiger shark over 13ft. long and
weighing 8501b. Mrs. Paspall’s shark,
like the monster landed the previous day
by D. Henderson, a mere male fisher-
man, was caught off Wellington Point.
Mr. and Mrs. F. H. Jones, well-known
residents of Wondai, celebrated their
golden wedding anniversary at their holi-
day home at Tewantin. Mr. Jones, who
is 71, though he doesn’t look it, arrived
in Australia with his parents in the sail-
ing-ship Darra on December 28, 1883.
He was for years with Lahey Bros.,
timber merchants, and went to Wondai
in 1907, where after a year or two ne
set up in business for himself. Mrs.
Jones was born in Maryborough, and is
the third daughter of Mr. and Mrs. King,
former Brisbane residents.
Christ Church, Killarney, saw the wed-
ding of Mereah Ramsay, daughter of
Rev. J. C. and Mrs. Ramsay, Killarney,
to Dr. Keith Gay, son of Mrs. Gay, of
Chatswood (N.S.W.). Archdeacon Glover
tied the knot. Chloris Ramsay was
bridesmaid. The bridal garment was
Chantilly lace mounted on satin, wreath
of orange-blossoms and tulle veil.
Brisbane is interested in the engage-
ment of Jessie, daughter of the C. W.
Mitchells, of Clayfield, to Cholmondeley,
younger son of Mr. and Mrs. C. B.
Darvall, of Boonah, and member of one
of Brisbane’s oldest families.
A cruiser outlined with lights, clusters
of balloons and myriads of colored
streamers gave a festive expression to the
reception-rooms at the United Service
Club Ball. Mrs. Pixley was in black net
with a pink rose on the shoulder. Cap-
tain J. Richards came down from
Caloundra. Edna Colhoun, who is holi-
daying with Dr. and Mrs. L. A. Little,
was a vivid figure in a black frock with
wide stitched collar and belt of red,
which matched the carnations she wore
as a corsage posy.
There was a Hogmanay dinner at the
Belle Vue Hotel on New Year’s Eve, with
real thistles for buttonholes and a huge
one which on the stroke of midnight
opened and showered balloons on the
table. Dr. Alex. McDonald and his
daughter Helen were host and hostess,
and V. Cameron burst into verse when
the haggis was brought in. Place-cards
were decorated with tartan, and in-
scribed with verses by Burns.
Masks and funny hats, rattles and
decorations which included a flight of
butterflies were features of a party at
Lennon’s, packed despite the lure of
the beaches.
Some oldsters will remember E. T.
Green, at one time mail contractor in
the Gulf Country. His three daughters
celebrated the arrival of 1938 by meet-
ing for the first time in 30 years. They
are Mrs. D. J. Evans, of Ocean View,
Dayboro’; Mrs. G. J. Mclvor, of
Chadshunt station, Gilbert River; and
Mrs. P. W. Neale, whose husband its'
postmaster at the Valley, Brisbane. All
three sisters, whose parental home was
Prestwood station, on the Gilbert, are
good shots with a rifle, can bait a line
and catch a fish with any man, and are
quite capable of handling the reins of a
coach if need arises.
Edith, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
T. J. Barratt, of the Gatton Agricultural
College, and Gordon Roy Greaves were
quietly married in Brisbane. The bride
was in pink, relieved with navy, and wore
a shady hat of navy straw garlanded with
field-flowers. Ida Aldridge was the only
bridesmaid, wearing powder-blue and a
navy hat. After a reception at the Can-
berra the newly-weds left for Imbil,
where their home is.


HTS
LYS
IS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
-
■ .
:
jr %■'*&
mm
m
smbs
Mm
OP.> ,-• ; r‘*t*'’**r > '*-
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S” WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Sheep Rugging.
“Bungaree”: Rugs (B. 22/12/’37) are
of undoubted benefit in certain districts
and for certain purposes, but in some
places rugging is not economical.
In rough, scrubby country the average
life of a sheep rug is so short that the
advantage gained by rugging would not
pay for the cost of the rug.
The three main benefits of rugging
are:
(1) To protect the fleece from dust,
burr and tip wastage.
(2) To encourage the growth of
young sheep by rugging them at
weaning; and by rugging ewes to
encourage the milk-flow and so raise
stronger lambs.
(3) To protect sheep—particularly
freshly-shorn sheep—in cold weather.
Col. H. F. White, Bald Blair, Guyra
(N.S.W.), recently tried rugging with
wethers in the hope of adding to or
carrying on their condition to a period
when fats are scarce in New England.
The result was disappointing. There was
very little difference in skin value or in
weight between the rugged and the con-
trol sheep, and any slight advantage was
in favor of the unrugged mob.
In warmer, clean-wool districts, such
as the s.-w. slopes, the rugging of sheep
has not given the results that have been
obtained elsewhere. It is unwise to gen-
eralise on the value of rugging ; it de-
pends entirely on the district.
Closer Settlement and Wool Quality.
“C.V.S.”: Improved pastures follow-
ing closer settlement in good rainfall
areas have little adverse effect on wool
apart from a slight fall in spinning qual-
ity, which is far outbalanced by a much
greater yield per acre.
Where fat-lamb raising is more profit-
able than wool a slight sacrifice of wool
quality is inevitable.
Again, lamb-raisers too often overlook
quality. Downs-cross ewes should never
be used for breeding. First-cross fleece
may sell well, but a constant infusion
of Downs blood results in poor wool.
Though closer settlement and pasture
improvement are steadily extending, the
Australian clip is still about 80 p.c.
merino, and much of the comeback and
crossbred is of good style. But the situa-
tion needs watching.
Improving the Average.
“B-gar”: Top values paid for fleece
lines of quality clips this season, and their
relation to the average 13d.-14d. per
pound for the whole of the N.S.W. offer-
ings, show how great is the need for
flock improvement by smaller growers.
With only a small percentage of coarse
crossbred wool, average price per pound
should be much higher.
The State sheep and wool department
is ready to help in ram selection and
culling, but some small growers are con-
tent to breed from anything. No ewe
of weak constitution or below the aver-
age in any respect can beget anything
better than itself. Rams count for naught
while nondescript ewes are in the flock.
Until culling of breeders is more
general the difference between the general
average and that of quality clips will
remain.
Control of Stock Routes.
“Mulgo”: Any laxity in the control
of stock routes is a matter of concern
to both pastoralists and drovers. The
chief complaint is that the grass is eaten
down-by local sheep or cattle.
Along many parts of the track there
is a fence on one side only, and some-
body sees the travelling stock through
each run so that they won’t spread be-
yond the prescribed distance, though the
local stock can roam at will. Where
there is a fence on each side settlers often
turn cows or horses on to it to save the
feed in their own paddocks.
In good seasons, when mob after mob
is following the same route, there is not
much left for the hind mobs, and in bad
times they are lucky to get a drink of
muddied water. In the neighborhood of
“Sorry, but you'll 'ave to leave the 'orse outside
towns there is not much feed for the
travellers at the best of times.
The stock routes are the graziers’ chief
means, and often the only means, of get-
ting cattle and sheep to market from dis-
tant places, and they are also necessary
in bad times for taking stock to agist-
ment. They should be well cared for.
Why Not Cheviots?
“W.D.McC.”: I have often wondered
why sheepmen haven’t more widely im-
ported the Cheviot from Scotland in
preference to Border Leicester.
The Cheviot carries a much better
fleece than the B. Leicester, and is the
best fine-woolled breed in Scotland. They
are not so leggy, and I think they would
cross better than the B. Leicester on
merino ewes. The ewes would make
ideal breeders for the fat-lamb trade,
and in the event of a bad season and a
carry-over the wethers would cut a good
fleece.
Cheviots are highly thought of in Scot-
land. Last season at the Lockerbie ram
sale, 465 were sold up to £145, and the
lot averaged £lO Is. Bd. per head, and
at the Hawick fair 407 sold to £l9O and
£2OO apiece, and averaged £lO 13s. Bd.
for the whole yarding. Cheviot wool
averaged the highest price for all breeds
in Scotland for 1936—13jd. per pound.
Skim v. Whole Milk.
“Hortus”: Calves changed to skim
milk when a few weeks old make just as
good cows as those fed on whole milk
until weaning.
About 77 p.c. of cow’s milk is water.
Of the remainder, nearly one-third is fat,
of which a separator will remove about
95 p.c. Thus, skim milk contains a
much larger proportion of protein.
Its ntitritive ratio is 1:1.5 compared
with 1:1.4 for whole milk. What is
needed to add to the skim to replace fat
is a fair quantity of energy-giving, easily-
digested carbohydrates.
Fats or oils can be used, but cereal
grains are cheaper. Good mixtures
include:
Three parts by weight of cracked
maize and one part bran.
Three parts by weight of cracked
maize, one part ground oats and one
part bran.
Three parts by weight cracked
maize, one part bran, one part
ground oats and one part linseed
meal.
Feed sparingly at first and increase
gradually until the calf is eating Hlb.
to 21b. a day at three months old.
Clean out the grain box often. To
leave old, wet grain about is to ask for
trouble.
Silage Points.
“J. Want”: Temperature is important
in silage making. Too great internal
heat may char the silage, but this is
easily prevented. Silage cut at the right
stage with adequate moisture will never
char. A close pack is the worst enemy
of fire, but ‘with material too old and
dried up solidity is hard to attain.
Many farmers prefer dark-brown
silage, and animals seem to like it better
than lighter varieties. It is usually the
result of allowing temperatures to rise to
from 120 deg. upwards, but it is not
nearly such good feed as that which is
not browned off. From 100 to 115
degrees will give a palatable light-brown
silage which provides the happy medium.
Below 100 degrees, green silage can
be produced. To keep heat within this
limit heavy pressure and plenty of mois-
ture are needed. The feed is not so
palatable, but green-silage pits hold a
little more fodder, and it is of the high-
est protein value.
Trouble with Sudan Grass.
“Mookau”: There has been a small
epidemic of Sudan-grass poisoning in the
Riverina. E. A. Beer, of Wagga, the other
day lost 14 cows out of a herd of 54
which were feeding off a second-growth
paddock in which a little S.g. was among
the pasture. Thirteen other Wagga herds
have suffered, and a few have been
affected as far south as Wodonga (Vic.).
It is only recently S.g. has developed
a reputation as a poisoner, and it is a
pity, since the grass is profitable. Sown
in drills, about 121 b. to the acre, or
broadcast from 181 b. to 251 b. per acre,
and rolled it gives easily handled graz-
ing and silage which will turn off several
cuttings or feedings in country not sub-
ject to heavy cold snaps or frosts. It
resists drought well and makes a good
silage.
Some authorities think that its new
tendency to produce prussic acid is born
of seed impurity, caused by cross-fer-
tilisation with sorghums. The theory
needs more investigation. If correct, an
official pure-seed guarantee should wipe
out the danger.
Even where there does appear to be
poison present, extensive poisoning such
as that which has taken place in the
Riverina is rare. It seldom harms sheep,
horses or pigs, but it is well to be on
the safe side and cut it for hay. When
dry, it is unlikely to do damage to any
class of stock.
_
rarasites and rests,
“Zedo”: Research in pest destruction
has taken a new trend, and world-wide
hunts are being made for parasites.
Various wasps have been tried out on the
’hopper, but, judging by the size of the
average swarm, it would take so many
wasps to be of any use that they might
become as big a nuisance as the original
plague.
W. B. Gurney, entomologist to the
N.S.W. Agricultural Department, is now
experimenting with a parasite from
Mysore (India) which attacks various
types of fruit-fly. Consignments have
been brought by air mail, and a few hun-
dreds have been released round the fruit-
growing suburbs of Sydney. It will take
a good many years to show results,
Parasites to deal with red scale, in-
digenous to Japan and S. Africa, also are
being brought in.


WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. Kino St.. Sydney
3998.
HERE’S THE
BROTHER OF OUR
HEAVY OOZE CALF
BOOT
You’ll remember our heavy Ooze Calf Boot, broad fitting, particu-
larly strong and comfortable.
Well, that has been so successful in the country that we have made
a lighter model of the same type.
Here it is in strong Brown Calf, leather-lined throughout and made
in full sizes. Price -- - - 39/6
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET,
224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.’’
//
EXPLORERS
O F
AUSTRALIA
Captain James Cook f.r.s.
Captain James Cook, discoverer of the eastern coast
of Australia, was one of England’s greatest navigators.
On his first voyage of discovery in 1769-70 he sailed
around New Zealand and found that it consisted of
three islands. He then set a westerly course until he
reached the south eastern coast of New Holland, as
Australia was then known. He discovered and named
Botany Bay, carefully explored and mapped the coast
northward and finally, on Possession Island in Torres
Strait, took possession of the whole eastern coast of
New Holland, naming it New South Wales.
On a later voyage he proved that, between New
Zealand and South America, there was no large con-
tinent, thus removing a misconception that had long
existed.
On the approach of the 150th anniversary of Australia
the Bank of JSetv South Wales joins with the people
of Australia in honouring a very great Englishman.
'ms
ESTABLISHED 1817
w
A 0 V
308 F. 1937
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Where Lucerne Won’t Grow.
“Bogaduck”: If irrigated with suitable
water lucerne will grow almost any-
where. It won’t grow in a swampy spot
likely to be under water for more than
a day, but the chief reason it doesn’t
grow on the average soil is because
nobody has taken the trouble to plant
it there.
I have a plateau of red soil, among
limestone ridges and sandy hills carrying
timber and bracken. I sowed seed three
years ago with the first autumn rains.
The spot is well sheltered from cold
winds, and the lucerne was 18in. high by
September. The summer heat caused it
to go back a lot, but with every rain it
has come again.
This season I have cut it three times
since August, and it is ready for another
cutting. I might add that you have to
bore at least 200 ft. on my country to
reach water.
A friend with a mallee farm in the
15in.-rainfall country cleared a high
sandhill, which soon began to drift. He
decided to let it go back to scrub, but
first broadcast some lucerne seed, fol-
lowed by topdressing and harrowing. His
object was to bind the soil for the time
being, but the lucerne hasn’t since died
out. Although sparse, the plants are
vigorous and healthy. During prolonged
dry spells they appear to be almost dead,
but every winter they come to life again.
During the last 'three years the Wim-
mera (Vic.) has had torrential summer
rains just as the crops ripened. In a 400-
mile tour of the district last month, I
saw only one paddock under a summer
crop of any description; when wheat
prices crashed, it was sowed to lucerne
as a last resort.
Following the recent heavy falls of
rain, totalling sin. in places, farmers re-
garded their sodden crops of ripe wheat
with gloomy faces, but the owner of the
lucerne was smiling. He was able to buy
sound-mouthed ewes at a sale for ss. 3d.
to put on the now waving and luxuriant
alfalfa.
Crops v. Pasture.
“Stump Jump”: One advantage of the
present extension of grazing, both for
sheep and cattle, into what were once
solely cropping districts for raising
wheat, barley or oats is that soil fer-
tility will be maintained, while profits
per acre remain the same.
Grazing stock take no fertility from
a useful mixed pasture, except for the
actual weight of mineral in the bone of
animals sold or milk produced. On a
butterfat dairy farm, practically none
of the mineral applied as topdressing
leaves the soil, and so, after 10 to 15
years, fertility shows a marked rise.
The greater the expansion of grazing,
the better off we shall eventually be.
Wool exported contains mainly carbon,
nitrogen, hydrogen and oxygen, all se-
cured from the air and water by plants.
Likewise meat, milk, butter and cheese.
But the pasture plant only gives part of
itself to grazing.
From crops little remains to rebuild
the soil.
More About ’Hoppers.
“Valerin”: Poisoning, spraying and the
like have failed; many more ’hoppers
reached the winged stage than were
destroyed.
The N. S. Wales P.P. Board of which
I am a director spent a lot of money on
poison and had inspectors working over
the infested areas. T doubt if there was
20 p.c. co-operation from landholders.
But it wouldn’t have made the least dif-
ference, because the country was swept
by invasions from the west. In the
western pastoral areas, where one or two
boundary-riders have to. look after 50,000
acres, it is a hopeless task controlling the
pest.
If the money which is used on poisons,
etc., was handed over to the C.S. and I.R.
for special work there would be a good
chance of discovering some disease or
parasite which would overcome the
’hopper. For years there have been re-
ported outbreaks of disease in several
localities, but, as it was nobody’s business
to investigate them, nothing was done.
Prickly-pear has been practically wiped
out by the Cactoblastis. Now let’s have
a go at the ’hopper.
“Hopper”: There is a way of keeping
future grasshopper plagues within reason-
able bounds (B. 29/12/’37), but not un-
less those opposed to the use of poisoned
bran realise that it does not cause the
wholesale deaths of stock and birds
sometimes supposed. Those who want
to can use flame-throwers, pitchforks or
anything else, but Commonwealth legis-
lation should be introduced compelling
the large-scale distribution of poison.
Erosion in Orchards.
“Gumblegubbin”: An orchardist at
Batlow (N.S.W.), where many of the
plots are on steep hillsides and subject
to erosion, has obtained good results by
covering the ground with a thick growth
of red and sub. clovers. Previously when
he ploughed the orchard, as is the usual
practice, heavy rains swept tons of soil
to the bottom of the slope, leaving
gutters between the rows of trees and in
places baring the roots.
On hillsides trees should always be
planted across the slope, not up and
down. Then the ground may be
ploughed or worked with a cultivator
without danger of a washout, provided
the strip on the alignment of the trees
is left intact. That strip provides a check,
and by the cross-ploughing the trees get
the full benefit of the rain, instead of
the water rushing off and taking soil
with it.
Hints for the Farm.
“Karaway”: A Victorian farmer dis-
covered a horde of caterpillars approach-
ing his crops; he mustered a flock of
sheep and drove them up and down until
they had stamped out the pest.
“Lam”: To preserve concrete floors,
troughs and tanks against lactic and fatty
acids and molasses products, wash them
down with a solution of waterglass—
sodium silicate —lib. to 10 gallons water,
applied hot. The mixture also makes a
good cleanser for greasy farm utensils.
“Hortus”: After wedging on the
handle tightly with wood, drill a iin. hole
through the axehead, and put an iron
rivet through. Then, the handle rarely
works loose.
“Pal”: Don’t use non-arsenical sprays
for codlin-moth control. Destroy all
overwintering larvae in cocoons, and stick
to lead arsenate with miscible white oil.
“Hornsby”: Boiled milk and barley
meal or crushed maize, wheat or oats
fattens fowls quicker than anything else.
If mash is sticky, add a little bran. The
milk makes flesh whiter and softer than
water does.
“North Coast”: Tests with hessian
cylinder shields have been carried out
on the banana farm of N. S. K.
McCallum, Coorabell, Mullumbimby
(N.S.W.). The cylinders cost about sd.
each and were used to cover bunches
during winter and until the fruit reached
the packing shed. The fruit developed
more evenly than unshielded fruit, was a
better color and unblemished. Flying-
foxes went hungry, and the bunchesi
were much less affected than usual by
tomato caterpillar moth.
“J. Want”: Some Queensland farmers
who have tried out Kikuyu grass are be-
ginning to wish they had never seen it.
The Queensland Agricultural Department
remarked recently that it is a good
grass but a bad weed. For bracken
clearing it is useful, and stock are fond
of it; but it likes a rich soil and it loves
cultivation. Kikuyu grows readily from
small runners, and is often carried out
of paddocks into ploughed lands in wet
weather by animals. Once it gets a
hold in any place in which the plough
is used regularly, it is hard to be rid of it.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
(1) The average yield of Japanese millet
grown on Q’land Darling Downs? (2) What
is the grain used for ? (3) What is its value?
—SBO7B.
(1) The average recorded yield of all Q’land
millet, 1931-35, was approximately 14 bushels
per acre. (2) Japanese millet is used chiefly
for grazing, for cutting as green fodder, silage,
hay and seed, but normally the bulk of the
area would be grazed. There is a fair demand
for seed of both Japanese millet and white
panicum, the latter being somewhat similar to
Japanese millet. The “panicum” seed of com-
merce is derived chiefly from the foxtail millets
or setarias which are known as giant setaria
(giant panicum) and dwarf setaria (Hungarian
or Liberty millet). It is this seed which Js
sold as birdseed, in competition with canary
seed, which is grown on the Darling Downs
as a winter crop. (3) At present, panicum
is quoted at £5 per ton, with indication of a
fall when present season’s seed reaches the
market. Over £2O per ton has been realised
within recent years during scarcity.


Radiotron valves are
sealed for your protection in
red and blue cartons. For
safety, always . . .
R £-VA LVE Wlti,
a
THE WORLD S STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
Arrange for our technician
to give you an expert
report on your radio.
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS Mfo (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL f|| ELECTRIC)
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
& ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subs«ribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times. .
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is the ONLY STATION
that can give yon com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONLY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
fd
Somebody’s getting
a Better Radio now!
Milliard
MASTER RADIO
Price* from £l2 /9 6.
Si
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Rabaul and Amateur Radio.
A radio amateur, formerly resident in
Rabaul, N.G., writes:
“Noticed in B. 16/6/’37 your refer-
ence to VK9 and our eruption. As far
as I know there are not more than half
a dozen 9’s on the air here, and I am the
only one within two or three hundred
miles of Rabaul. I am situated 18 miles
from that town and only nine miles
from our new Mt. Vulcan, which rose
out of the sea on 29/5/’37.
“The first we knew of anything wrong
was at 4.30 p.m., when the crew of M.V.
Durana (which was on the slipway that
turned out to be the new volcano)
arrived in bits more or less, having just
escaped being lifted into the Great
Beyond. Among these was the wireless
operator. Rabaul appeared to be one
sheet of flame and smoke.
“The op. and I decided to see what
we could do with my partially dis-
mantled five-watter. After an hour or
so we were on the air. I had no trans-
mitting tubes left—all gone the way they
sometimes do up here—but we found
among the junk a 71A and a 47, and
rigged these up. For power we tried a
Ford coil (my usual H.T. supply), and
started punching out emergency and
assistance calls on 40 metres and then
on 31 metres, the best we could do with
the antenna and other gear available. We
called VJZ and got nothing in reply.
“The 71A went red-hot and then —
pop! Then the ’quakes knocked my
mast down from the roof. We untangled
antenna and guy-wires and got a native
up a coconut palTn to make the end of
the antenna fast, and away we went
again. Towards midnight my only six-volt
battery went flat, so we got a motor-
lorry to stand by, and with engine run-
ning charged the battery at the same
time.
“At 2 a.m. on Sunday, 30th, I was
able to borrow a few Bs. Connected
them up and worked for a few minutes,
then the 47 went. I still had six 201 As,
so we rigged up adaptors and got going
again. All this time we couldn’t hear a
thing except a continuous roar of static,
just as if the receiver were connected to
the commutator of a generator, or across
the gap of a spark coil. However, we
pegged along, and by 6 a.m. were able
to borrow some more batteries, Bs and
As.
“We not only called CQ, but gave
descriptions of the eruption as we saw
it. By this time VJZ was out of action
completely, and most of the personnel
were on their way to Kokopo or else-
where. Word came through that a small
Government five-watter would try to
establish contact with us at 7 a.m., but
they were in the same plight as VJZ—
no power, and the lines all down —so we
did not contact them. We stuck punch-
ing away until 1.30 p.m. Sunday, when
I was recalled to look after refugees just
arriving.
“On the Sunday between 8 p.m. and
9 p.m., operators from VJZ took over
my station, sent out a few calls, and
were recalled to work the sets on the
old Montoro and Golden Bear. They
were then instructed on the Monday
morning to take all my gear and estab-
lish a station at the old site at Bitapaka.
Meanwhile VJZ had been put on the air
again by a couple of operators who had
managed to find their way back to the
station in Rabaul. From then on most
of my radio gear, transmitter and re-
ceiver included, supplemented by gear
from the Montoro, carried on all the
traffic from here until the beginning of
July, worked by commercial operators.
“By that time the Government had es-
tablished a five-watt station here, and I
received some of my borrowed gear
again. Out of that returned I was able
to knock together a transmitter and
get it on the air, with a Ford coil for
H.T. and a 201 A oscillator. The
antenna was made up from scraps of
wire. With this gear I handled some
thousands of words of official and com-
mercial messages between Kokopo and
Rabaul when the Government station
broke down. Had a QSO with VLX
somewhere in Papua one Sunday morn-
ing, so it didn’t work too badly.
“Some refugees arriving in Kokopo
from the north coast told us that they
had heard a description of the eruption
broadcast from national stations in Aus-
tralia, and that it was announced that
these descriptions were received in Aus-
tralia from a short-wave station in
Rabaul of which the callsign was un-
known or unreadable. These refugees
had stayed the night at a planter’s home
and enjoyed the radio broadcast during
their stay. We were the only short-wave
station on the air during the first 10 or
12 hours of the eruption, and the times
as indicated by these refugees would
coincide with the times we were on the
air. This would be compensation enough
for my missing gear if I could only be
certain that it was the signal from my
scrap-heap that was being received.
“The operator from the Durana, who
had assisted me, joined the Golden Bear
at Kokopo a day or two after the erup-
tion, when it was proved that the op.
of that ship was definitely among the
missing. It was the commercial opera-
tors who worked that ship’s gear when
their station was out of action, on 600
metres, and not on short waves. The
distress calls were sent from my home
and not, as stated in the press, from the
ship in Rabaul harbor.
“That wasn’t the fault of the operator
who was with me; he was only too
anxious to be where he could do some
good on a key or at any other job. There
was no way of getting into Rabaul for
the first 24 hours. I can tell you that
the hours that he and I were on the air
were the longest and hottest I can re-
member, and I punched a key dur-
ing the Big Scrap—in Mesopotamia, with
the Ist Australian Wireless Squadron. I
have been messing around with radio
since 1910 and used to be XOQ pre-war
days, and now sign a VK9 call under
local Government authority.”
From this it will be seen that, despite
the fact that amateurs in Australia heard
nothing of any VK9 amateurs at the
time of the eruption, a VK9 was on the
job, and, with characteristic amateur
spirit, tried to make his little station of
some use.
D.B.K.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. all-
waver (B. 28/4/’37); location, Hughen-
den.
Since the last report, reception in the
mornings has altered for the worse. For
a few weeks I have had good results
from W3XAU and WIXK on 31 metres
from 6.30 to 7 a.m., but these stations
have now dropped off. The session on
WIXK has been most interesting, dealing
with foreign affairs in addition to U.S.A.
news.
The previously strong 31’s are now
poor, OLR3A being the best. This
station has news in English at 7 a.m. now
instead of 6 a.m. On 25 JZJ has been
outstanding. The only higher-frequency
station worth listening to I have been
able to get has been W3XAL on 16.87
metres, and even this is failing.
Reception during late afternoons and
mghts is very fine. VK2ME on Sundays
is the best. Daventry and Berlin, with
their great variety of frequencies, give
listeners plenty of choice. GSD in
Transmission 1 is very fine. We are
advised to use GSG, but until after 7
p.m. it is not the best. From then right
through the night reception is excellent.
DJE is usually better than GSG, and
GSB is very good until VK3ME arrives
on the scene.
The 19-metre Daventry stations are
patchy at present. In contrast are the
foreign 19-metre stations, which are good
and consistent. GSJ generally does well
right through. RNE night sessions are
still very good. 2RO from 10 p.m. is
quite good and getting stronger. DJN
is also very good from 10 p.m., with
DJA slightly weaker. The news at 10
p.m. is as good as from VLR at 10.30
p.m.
HSBPJ is now on 31.58 metres, hardly
as good as on 31.54 metres on Thursdays
at 11 p.m.
Apart from VK9MI and WBXAL on
49 metres, there are usually four or five
stations of entertainment value on good
nights, but the higher frequencies give
stronger signals and better programmes
as a rule. At the latter end of Decem-
ber night reception was splendid all
round, but the mornings varied from very
fine to nil with the exception of JZJ and
the Americans, some of whose pro-
grammes have been exceptionally in-
teresting.
VK2ME is the best station on the air.
Not one of the A or B stations on the
regular broadcast band can touch it on
a Sunday night. RNE has been blowing
off steam on the Sino-Japanese war, and
GSG is beefing out “popular classics”
in fine style. GSI is a fine treat after
midnight, overwhelming any station ex-
cept VK2ME.
NORTHERNER.
Voltage Regulator.
Stable D.C. for Oscillators.
For many test purposes it is essential
to have available a supply of D.C. volt-
age which remains constant irrespective
of any fluctuations of the mains. Owing
to the difficulty of obtaining sufficiently
good regulation from the mains much
test equipment has been built using bat-
tery supply for the plate circuit. This
is not altogether satisfactory, because of
the high cost of batteries and their
gradual dropping of voltage. Various
methods have been used—more or less
successfully—to provide a steady D.C.
voltage under all conditions ; the arrange-
ment described here will be found to
provide regulation superior to that given
by any of the simple types of regulators.
The construction is simple, and no
difficulty should be experienced in the
application. The performance given by
this regulator is shown in the measured
curves.
The regulator, as shown in the circuit
diagram, incorporates only two valves.
These are types 2A3 and 57 Radiotrons.
The input to the regulator is normally
Fig. 1.—Circuit of the voltage regulator.
240 volts A.C., and the output remains
constant at 180 volts D.C. for a current
drain up to 80ma. maximum. Not only
does the voltage remain constant with ex-
treme variations in D.C. drain, which in
many cases is relatively unimportant, but
also, when the A’C. supply fluctuates, the
voltage still remains constant with plus
or minus one volt.
With the constants used in the circuit
diagram, the A.C. voltage may vary be-
tween 200 and 290 volts A.C. with a load
of 70ma. and between 160 and 290 volts
Fig. 2. —Voltage regulator measurement
curves.
A.C. with a load of 35ma. before the
D.C. voltage is appreciably affected.
It will be seen that this arrangement
provides for fluctuations either in the
A.C. supply or in the D.C. load. Within
the limits of its operation it is equal in
every respect to battery supply and
superior to battery supply in its perma-
nent nature and reliability. The applica-
tion is particularly for the operation of
test equipment such as oscillators, but it
may be applied to other services.
V.C.
Empire Timetable Changes.
The closing of the gap between Trans-
missions 2 and 3 in the Empire service
from Daventry is the chief of several
changes that came info force with the
new year. The opening announcements
of Transmission 3 are broadcast imme-
diately after Transmission 2 closes down
at 1.55 p.m. G.M.T., increasing the
length of Transmission 3 by 20 minutes.
The news bulletin in Transmission 1 is
now transferred on week-days to the
end of the session, and under this new
arrangement the bulletin is the final
broadcast in the day’s programmes for
Australasia and the Far East.
The change has been made in order to
allow greater flexibility of programme
construction and the introduction of
longer features. Technical considerations
have made necessary a change in the


a
>
"Ui
All steel . . . welded at every point,
without one bolt, screw, nail or rivet.
New Dynaflash Engine . . New ail-coil
Springing .... New Sumptuous body
by Holden .... they’re all yours in
BUICK for
The Dynaflash Engine that creates
a cyclone in every cylinder.
Rear coil Springs to match independent front
coil springs, for a new incomparable ride.
“AIR CHIEF’’ CAR RADIO
is a companion you will always appreciate. It provides
a whispering background for conversation, entertainment
for all passengers, company for a long lonely trip, and
fun at a picnic. Specially designed for Buick, it
features controls to harmonize and give a "built in’’
appearance—an 8-irich Dynamic Header Bar Speaker
and the “Accoustinator", a device which obtains the
best reception of all programmes under all conditions.
Ask your dealer for a demonstration.
There’s a cyclone every 5 inches you travel
—there’s a soft cushion on each wheel
Right now Buick is the most modern
car in the world- Any one of its three
big features would make it the outstand-
ing model of the year yet all these
have come together for the 1938 buyer.
In the Dynaflash engine high compres-
sion is literally changed to “cyclompres-
sion.” As the mixture hurtles into the
cylinder at about 250 miles an hour, it
strikes the “Turbulator” on top of the
piston which instantly converts the
charge into a tiny cyclone of terrific tur-
bulence. The spark fires the mixture
faster and gives a more furious thrust of
power —nearly 10% more powerful than
last year, with same amount of petrol.
That’s feature No. 1. No. 2is the new
all-coil springing, an exclusive Buick
feature available for the first time in
motor history. With Buick all-coil,
torque-free springing, riding is immen-
sely more comfortable. The steering
feels safer. Rear tyres wear longer. The
car holds the road better. Cornering is
immensely improved. And risks of skid-
ding are blessedly reduced.
And No. 3 is the sumptuous new Uni-
steel “Turret” Top body, the finest body
ever built by Holden. From the Multi-
Adjustable front seat, to the large trunk
at the rear with its separate tyre
compartment, the 1938 Buick body is
more comfortable, more attractively
furnished, and safer than ever before.
There’s a new lot of thrills awaiting you
in Buick this year. Come in and take
a car for a spin this week.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
uqsidc/t
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED
BUICK DEALER
timing of Transmission 6, which now
begins 15 minutes later, at 2.15 a.m.
G.M.T. Ten minutes are set apart every
Friday in all transmissions for the an-
nouncement of programme plans for the
following week.
Amateur Chatter.
Messages for acceptance between
VKs can only deal with experimental
radio in general, but are often important,
and—as was the case in early-day radio
—it should be a matter of pride among
amateurs to pass them on. The writer
has encountered several instances lately
where messages relative to forthcoming
56mc. tests and arrangements for DX
schedules on other bands have been
handed in good faith to VKs by Eng-
lish stations, but they haven’t been de-
livered. If stations have no intention of
passing on a radioed request, they
should at least have the courtesy to say
so. The same thing applies even in
U.S.A. The writer has had occasion to
send messages concerning international
56mc. tests, and mail received shows
that they are still “on a hook” some-
where.
’Phone and telegraphy are both use-
ful mediums of communication, but
where reliability plus ypeed is important
the Morse key is the winner. Given
100 p.c. reception conditions, ’phone may
be speedier, but in practice perfect re-
ception conditions rarely rule, and DX
’phone men have developed a habit of
repeating each sentence twice to allow
for fading and possible interference. To
make matters worse, a distant station,
listening to a weak ’phone talking about
“T for Tokio,” and catching only the
“Tokio,” may be misled into thinking
that the station calling is in that place.
Some standardisation for amateur ’phone
in this respect appears to be needed, just
as the Q calls are standard internation-
ally.
It is probably the lull before the
storm, but at present there is scarcely
any 56mc. activity around Sydney. The
technical problems of receivers and trans-
mitters are no more difficult in these
days than the building of apparatus for
lower frequencies. A small version of
the “WBJK gondola” array for both
56mc. and 28mc. is under construction
for the writer’s station. It is hoped that
the 56mc. signal from this horizontally
polarised array, 50ft. high, will get to DX
places during this year’s R.S.G.B. contest.
As a supplement to recent discussions
over the air on the subject of “600 ohm”
and “non-resonant” feed lines, this chart
should serve to clear up doubts as to
what gauge of wire to use, and with how
much spacing:
Correct Wire Spacing in Inches, Centre
Wire to Centre, for Surge Impedance Values
Gauge, •« of Ohms
B andS. 200. 300. 400. 500. 600.
6 .. .42 .987 2.28 5.26 12.1
8 .. .339 .783 1.81 4.17 9.61
10 .. .269 .621 1.44 3.31 7.62
12 .. .213 .493 1.14 2.62 6.04
14 .. .169 .391 .903 2.08 4.79
16 .. .134 .309 .716 1.65 3.80
18 .. .106 .246 .568 1.31 3.01
Fourteen B and S wire is readily avail-
able, and, as this is the most commonly
used gauge wire for aerials and feeders,
the spacing for a 600-ohm non-resonant
line may be taken as roughly 4|in.
VK2NO.
“Enno”: Care should be exercised
when removing octal-based valves from
ceramic sockets. The only octal ceramic
type available in Australia has a grip
like a vyce on the valve pins, and there
is a risk of breaking off the bakelite
locator projection under the valve. A
safe method of removal is to insert the
end of a screwdriver between valve base
and the top of the socket, and use this
as a lever until the valve is free enough
to be pulled out easily.
A P.M.G. list of amendments to broad-
casting and experimental stations stated
that the power of the 2CA broadcasting
station, Canberra, F.C.T., should read,
instead of 500 watts, 200 watts —it should
have been 2000 watts.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) Can static be reduced by using extra-
selective receivers incorporating iron-core trans-
formers? (2) Is static reduced by a double-
doublet aerial with transposed lead-in and
Faraday screen separating the primary of the
aerial transformer from the secondary? (3)
Does a quartz crystal filter in the I.F. stage
of a superhet improve signal to noise ratio ?
(4) Has any method been devised to eliminate
static ? —622.
(1) No. (2) Only man-made static. (3) No.
The quartz filter merely makes for extreme
selectivity by cutting side-bands. A quartz
filter is not suitable for use in an ordinary
broadcast superhet. It is intended only for
application in telegraphic communication. (4)
By a complicated system of aerial filtering it
is possible to minimise atmospheric disturbances
considerably, but only at a fixed frequency. A
fortune awaits the inventor of some system
to cut out static without impairing normal
reception.


The Long Whith Cloud
Spread Sea-transport Subsidies
While Australia and Maoriland still
talk about doing something to help
British-owned ships win back from
American liners the plums of the trans-
pacific trade, U.S. officials are turning
the attention of Washington to the prac-
ticability of replacing subsidised super-
liners with super-aircraft. “Break with
maritime tradition and turn to the skies,”
the commission inquiring into American
shipping is urging Congress.
If blunt U.S. experts believe the time
has come to use shipping-assistance
money to “speed the development of
express transportation across oceans by
air,” a project in which they claim
America is “capable of world leadership,”
Australia and Maoriland and the U.K.
as well should determine as quickly as
possible whether or not it would be
wiser to adopt immediately a similar long-
range policy.
This doesn’t imply that the era of
shipping is nearing an end, but merely
that its nature is gradually changing.
The ship of the future—and, as the
Blue Star line is proving, of the present
as well—will not be the giant pas-
senger liner but the fast, modern
freighter with good accommodation for
small numbers of passengers and every
known facility for the fresh transport of
foodstuffs and the swift delivery of other
cargo.
During the week Australian Harold
Gatty spoke arrestingly on the subject
of air transport; he says giant Clippers
capable of flying 5000 miles non-stop
with 100 passengers will be on the Hono-
lulu-Auckland route within three years.
And he knows his subject, or he wouldn’t
be the Maoriland-Australia representa-
tive for Pan-American Airways. The
U.S. Maritime Commission is a little
more conservative in visualising the
future of America’s overseas air marine ;
it allows 10 years for the appearance of
125-ton flying-boats capable of carrying
150 passengers across the Atlantic in less
than 20 hours.
The report estimates the cost of depre-
ciation, fuel and crew for each passenger
crossing the Atlantic by 50-seater, 50-
ion flying-boats “within immediate range
of technical and constructional develop-
ment in the United States” at 73.10
dollars (about £lB Australian), as com-
pared with 67.58 dollars (about £l7 Aus-
tralian) for the super-liner. The per-
passenger cost of the Atlantic crossing
by the 125-tonner is estimated at only 35
dollars, which is slightly less than £9
Australian.
If development of this kind is achieved
within 10 years, the super-liner may con-
ceivably be unable to attract as pas-
sengers anyone but the comparatively
wealthy.
Even people who still regard the aero-
plane with a measure of doubt as to its
safety have been catered for by the U.S.
commission. The Empire flying-boat
Centaurus and the Pan-American Clipper
which has just inaugurated the first
official airmail service overseas from
Maoriland have proved what modern
aircraft can accomplish in safety, but
Joseph P. Kennedy, chairman of the U.S.
commission, has gone further. He said:
In making its survey, the commission
carefully examined the relative reliability,
safety, comfort, cost of operation and re-
placements of aircraft and super-liners.
All of these comparisons were favorable
to aircraft.
With the changes anticipated in the
next decade dated British-Australian-
Maoriland plans for recapturing lost
Pacific business by subsidising the build-
ing and maintenance of lush ocean liners
should undergo stern revision. Too heavy
a potential burden on the common tax-
payer is involved for the money to be
wasted on bolstering one type of ship
when subsidies could be more safely
spread by investment on another ocean-
going type of vessel, and on the better
development of trans-oceanic aviation.
Policies now put into effect will make
or mar the foreign-commerce future of
British countries in the Tasman Sea.
“Motu”: Most highways over here
will soon have better surfaces and grades
and fewer hairpin bends, so probably
Minister Semple’s next accident-indi-
cators (B. 5/1 /’3B) will be very different
from the present ones. Motorists natu-
rally favor the best roads, and, as “Kiwit”
has observed, most Maoriland accidents
occur on the more heavily populated high-
ways. The Government is spending thou-
sands of pounds on improvements to short-
“Now remember, young feller, no loopin' the loop!"
cut roads and those secondary highways
that frequently lead to out-of-the-way
scenic spots. A run through the mountain-
ous Urawera country between Rotorua
and Lake Waikaremoana is nearing com-
pletion; the Kaimai road from Matamata
to Tauranga is losing its more fearsome
bends; the tortuous Para Para, which
links Wanganui with Raetahi and the
national park’s Chateau Tongariro, is
getting straightened ; the time-saving
desert road between Taihape and Taupo
is being reconstructed; and dozens of
other routes off the South Island’s beaten
tracks are receiving P.W.D. treatment.
In future years these will carry heavier
traffic streams, and some of them are
certain to win passing mention as motor-
smash highways, but they represent road-
ing progress and Labor Government
achievements of lasting value.
“Korero”: The job of preparing for
Maoriland’s centennial exhibition to be
held at Wellington in 1939-40 has been
under way for more than a year, and
the public company floated to raise the
£150,000 estimated to be the amount
required from , the people has already
unloaded about £90,000 worth of shares.
The Savage Government is contributing
a subsidy of £1 for £2 up to a limit of
£50,000, and has promised an additional
£25,000 free-of-interest loan. Seven mil-
lion people must attend the exhibition
before shareholders will re.ceive 20s. in
the £, but this aggregate doesn’t seem too
optimistic when it is remembered that
3,250,000 flocked to Dunedin for the
1926 exhibition there. Dunedin is near
the bottom of the South Island.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: People interested in Maoris
land’s man-made forestry belts knew
that this summer would be a bad one
for fires long before that £500,000 worth
of trees was destroyed last month. Past
meteorological records and current ob-
servations pointed to a more than usually
dry summer ; added to this was the addi-
tional risk contained in the present
development-stage of the well-grown
stands of exotics established in the
Rotorua district by State and private
enterprise. Maoriland foresters don’t
have many wind or insect worries, but
fire risk has been present ever since the
pumice country was found to be suitable
for tree-growing; and from the earliest
planting days forestry bosses have paid
considerable attention to the provision of
adequate firebreaks between the major
plantations. With a gale-force wind
behind a well-established forest fire,
these breaks wouldn’t be sufficient check,
and the outbreaks in early December
served the useful purpose of impressing
on the authorities the necessity for in-
creasing the strength of fire-guard bat-
talions on summer duty.
“Xo”: Kakariki the parrot and
kakariki the lizard are dying out. The
bright-green native bird has left all but
the most isolated parts of the mainland,
and is only to be found ,in any numbers
on the Great Barrier, Kapiti and Stewart
islands; but bird-lovers are planning
ways and means of keeping it in exist-
ence on the coastal islands where it is
making this last stand. Kakariki the
lizard bobbed up in Christchurch quite
recently. Also green in color, he chases
his insects through Maoriland’s scrub
country at night, sleeps during the day-
time, and, like many of his relatives, beds
down for the entire winter. So it isn’t
surprising that few pakehas have met
him. The older Maoris knew all about
him, but, disturbed by the intent nature
of his stare, they invested him with the
superstition that their late forefathers
used , his body to revisit scenes of their
earthly existence. To meet a green lizard
was bad luck. The miserable native who
did so regarded the encounter as a sum-
mons from the other world and good
reason to return home to die—which,
although in the best of physical health,
he invariably did.
* * • * *
“M.”: Churches with historical associa-
tions (B. 5/1/’3B), is it? At Tauranga on
the east coast of Maoriland, 140 miles
from Auckland and 40 miles north
of Rotorua, there’s an old weather-
board memorial church which marks the
site of Gate Pah, where 230 Maoris made
goats of 2000 British troops armed with
the artillery and other military aids
modern on April 29, 1864. The drill-
ground British warriors had to wait until
the end of June that year before they
caught the natives at Te Ranga, a few
miles along the road to Rotorua, and
ended native troubles in this part of the
world. In Tauranga town stands the old
mission house erected in 1847 by Rev.
Alfred Brown, who started the C. of E.
mission to the East Coast Maoris in
1835 after warring tribes on the other side
of the Kaimai hills had booted him out
of Matamata in 1835. Round the
Tauranga mission house are trees planted
by the adventurous missionary nearly 100
years ago.
An exhibition of Oils, Water-colors and Etchings, etc., by leading Australian artists, at the Macleod Gallery, 252 George Street, Sydney.
Admission Free. Open Week Days, 10 a.m. until 4.30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. until noon.


HORRIFIED WHEN SHE
WAS WEIGHED
Took off 31 lbs. with
Kruschen
Why continue to be fat? Why continue to
be afraid to step on a weighing machine for
fear of what it may show? Once you start
on Kruschen. being weighed is no longer an
ordeal, but a pleasure Read how one woman
is losing weight and gaining health by taking
Kruschen Salts: —
“I had become very fat (I am only 29),
depressed, and always had indigestion and palpi-
tation. At last I plucked up courage to have
myself weighed, and, to my horror, I was
13 stone 11 lbs. This was four months ago,
and now I am pleased to inform you that I
am 11 stone 8 lbs. I have not dieted to any
great extent, except that I eat brown bread
instead of white, and have cut out potatoes and
fried foods. Since I purchased my first bottle
of Kruschen Salts, I have watched my weight
decrease each week.” —(Mrs.) J.R.W.
The six salts in Kruschen assist the internal
organs to throw off each day the wastage and
poisons that encumber the system. Then, little
by little, that ugly fat goes —slowly, yes, but
surely.
NEW/
A
d
Tur
"MEEKA"
POLEY
SADDLE.
£ll/14/-
(BARE),
£l2/17/6
(MOUNTED).
ON LAND
AND SEA/
*
*,l:
Glorious Sydney Harbour, a blaze of colour by day and night, with
striking Aquatic Displays. Venetian Carnivals, Sporting Fixtures.
rke hrsl-fruits of Australia’s great national resources in the most com
prefiensive Royal Agricultural Show ever presented.
iLm*
m
Australia's youth and heauty in surf carnivals and such important
sporting events as Empire Games. Tennis and Cricket.
Is full “Somer-
set” type and
is made of best
quality Kip. The
Haps and skirt are in
one piece. The tree
is strongly made
and a solid gullet plate.
PTY.
LTD.
WALTHERi. STEVENSON
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
In celebration of Australia’s 150tfi Birthday, on January
26th, Sydney will be transformed into a Gala City.
Pageants, Carnivals, Sporting Events, Shows and
Exhibitions in rich profusion, will make memorable this
important anniversary of a young nation s birth. Sydney
will be in her merriest mood and gayest garb, the mecca
of all to whoiji the growth of a young and virile nation is
a matter for rejoicing. Come and pay your homage —*
come and enjoy every moment of your stay.
TH
USTRALI AS 150
ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATIONS
SYDNEY - JANUARY 26 - APRIL 25 - 1938
or mouth. He didn’t seem to mind where
his fist entered Shugrue. His ability to
throw his stomach behind him and grace-
fully sidestep a wallop that would have
staggered an elephant and then tap the
other fellow on his smelling apparatus
was outstanding. Points decision for
Kay once more.
During the third week of October,
1914, Kay underwent a local operation
on Tuesday, got married on Friday and
boxed 20 rounds on Saturday—and his
opponent was Johnnie Griffiths, like
Saylor and Shugrue one of the half-dozen
best American lightweights. Under more
favorable conditions, Kay would have
SHUGRUE TRIED HARD ENOUGH.
whipped Griffiths. As it was, he might
have done the trick if he had hit more
often. He had Griffiths completely dis-
concerted. He could always outrange
Johnnie, and when he fought, which was
seldom, he staggered that battler. But
most of the time Kay was dog-tired.
The Westralian bent his head back out
of reach till, to get to it, Johnnie had to
walk half-way up his stomach. Johnnie
was a persistent warrior; in-
deed, he bored in like a bull-
dog. Occasionally he would get
Kay on the ropes; thereupon
the Australian would twine his
arms three times round his head
and cover his jaws, allowing
Johnnie to belabor arms and
gloves till the American backed
away in disgust and helplessness.
The only times Kay scored were when
he stood up and met the American with
straight rights. While he did that Johnnie
could not get near him. Early in the
fight, Kay decided to go for a knockout
and hit the American with great force,
but his heavy shooting was generally too
slow. At the end of 20 rounds, Harald
Baker gave Griffiths the decision, and
Kay remarked that a hot bath then
appeared to him as the sweetest thing on
earth.
Another American pitted against Kay
was Jimmy Coffey, reputedly a full-
blooded Mohawk Indian. Coffee showed
the indomitable old wigwam spirit. His
condition was good and his vigor unques-
tionable ; but he had left his grappling-
irons behind, and without them he found
it impossible to grab the elusive Kay
where he wanted him. Kay’s best punch
was a left delivered at long-range, and
he often got home with a violent right,
the equivalent of a normal boxer’s left.
Kay the winner.
At this period Kay was a lightweight.
As such he had three bouts with Herb
McCoy, winning two (one on a foul),
and losing the other; three with Alf
Morey (he won two) and two with
Hughie Mehegan, who got a decision
over him, the other affair being drawn.
He defeated an American, Red Watson,
and a Frenchman, Quendreux, each in
20 rounds. And in the course of two
years he had seven meetings with Harry
Stone. Only once did the decision favor
Stone.
Going into the welterweight class, Kay
was knocked out in 12 rounds by Tommy
Uren. In a return match he avenged
himself on that very accomplished
welter. It was unfortunate for him that
he did not remain a lightweight, for as a
10-stoner he had to give lumps of weight
away to nearly all his future opponents,
though for most of them he was too fast
and too clever.
One of his greatest successes was
gained over Fred Dyer, a muscular youth
with a countenance which might have
been either Yiddish or Gaelic and a mass
of hair like inked seaweed. Dyer, who
called himself the Singing Welshman, had
gone 20 rounds with Les Darcy and had
outpointed Fritz Holland, who boasted
two decisions over Les. Dyer boxed in
accordance with no known rules, leaving
himself wide open every time he used
his right, and usually when he employed
his left. He avoided annihilation by
quickness of foot and clever head move-
ment. On the aggressive side he had a
fast and accurate straight left. Kay found
these methods to his liking, and at Mel-
bourne he stopped the Singing Welsh-
man’s progress by knocking him out, with
a left to the stomach, in 11 rounds.
While still a welterweight Kay had
begun to take on middleweights, one of
them perhaps the cleverest of the day,
Jimmy Clabby. Jimmy was used to meeting
orthodox boxers, and early in his contest
with Kay he was plainly bothered. After
an ineffectual assault he would stand and
gaze in bewilderment at the spectacle
presented by Kay, who —right foot and
fist advanced and body crouched down
alongside a swinging left —was ready for
attack or defence. The long Westralian
fooled and outboxed Jimmy all the way.
He never gave a cleverer exhibition.
There were no disputes when Kay was
awarded the honor and glory ; and it was
the same when he was adjudged to have
outpointed those other American middles
Fritz Holland and Joe Chip, who had
had Dave Smith on the floor for a long
count.
Art Magirl had twice knocked out
Smith, and was being talked of as a fit
opponent for Darcy. Kay knocked him
out in seven rounds. The Westralian had
Magirl down for nine seconds in the
third round. The finishing punch was a
left on the solar-plexus. There were in-
credulous murmurs from the crowd, but
Magirl got it right enough.
After that Kay took to fighting heavy-
weights. He had to to get matches, for the
Game was nearly dead. What was worse
from his point of view was that boxing
promoters began to tire of southpaws and
to insist that Kay should stand up to his
man instead of using his nimble feet to
save him from punishment. Thus handi-
capped, he actually fought two battles
“ADVANCE AMERICA”—JOHNNIE
GRIFFITHS IS THE AMERICAN.
heavyweight Albert Lloyd, win-
jng one and y bein | knocked 0 J , hc
other—in 13 rounds.
j n Chuck Wiggins, one of the
best 12s t. 71b. men in the U.S.A., who
numbered Tunney and Tom Gibbons
among his opponents, came to Sydney,
His first match was with the heavyweight
George Cook, and he carried too many
guns for Cook, though it went 20 rounds,
Two weeks later he fought Kay.
Kay came in a few pounds over the
welterweight limit and had given a signed
undertaking that he would not box on
‘ he retreat ' , H « might almost aj s well
have agreed to fight with one hand tied
behind his back. Not only heavier but
in better condition, Wiggins wore him
down. Although Kay was still plugging
away gamely in the eleventh round, the
referee decided at that point that his case
was hopeless.
In 1920 Kay went to London and
fought Johnnie Basham for the welter-
weight championship of the Empire. His
experiences against middleweights and
heavyweights were very poor prelim-
inafies to a b° ut a smart boxer like
® as^ar !}’ w went out of his class.
After 20 interesting rounds the verdict
was given against Kay, but not a few
Engli shmen in the hall, disputed it.
After his retirement from active box-
j ng> Kay followed old P.R. tradition by
going into the public-house business in
Sydney. He has departed somewhat
from the tradition by doing very well for
himself.


K
KING
t °h f e ROAD”
BATTER IBS
88
It
sta
Sfnip
m
i
hu CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINERS
' " NIAGARA <W AO RAN Cl "
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. LTD.
INC.
IN
N.Z.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, OR ANY TOURIST AGENT.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Girl (15), Sydney, High School education,
wants position as junior in city office. Willing
to learn shorthand and typing.—Bl63.
Young man, N.S.W., bookkeeper, clerk, shop-
assistant, wants position in country. Exp. Refs.
—8152.
To buy Dec., 1935, and Jan., 1936, copies
of “Men 0n1y.”—8137.
To buy for friend in England Australian
snakeskins, any sort, any size, in good order
and condition.—BlB4.
Information Sought.
Ten best women tennis players in the world
in order of ranking? —Bl62.
1 Senorita A. Lizana (Chile), 2 Mrs. Little
(England), 3 Mile. J. Jedrzejowska (Poland),
4 Mrs. Sperling (Denmark), 5 Mme. Mathieu
(France), 6 Miss H. Jacobs (U.S.A.), 7 Miss
A. Marble (U.S.A.), 8 Frl. M. Horn (Germany),
9 Miss R. M. Hardwick (England), 10 Miss
D. M. Bundy (U.S.A.).
* * * *
(1) What six batsmen headed the batting
averages in this year’s English cricket season ?
(2) Similar information regarding bowlers? —
8180.
(1) —
Not Highest
Batsmen. Ins. Out. Runs. Score. Aver.
Hammond ..55 5 3252 217 65.04
Hardstaff ..46 2 2540 266 57.72
Hutton ..58 7 2888 271* 56.62
Dempster ..26 3 1247 154* 54.21
Paynter ..58 4 2904 322 53.77
Wyatt ..54 5 2625 232 53.57
* Not out.
(2)
Bowlers. Overs. Maidens. Runs. Wickets. Aver.
Matthews 253.3 59 680 47 14.46
Verity .. 1386.2 487 3168 202 15.68
Goddard .. 1'478.1 359 4158 248 16.76
Clay .. 1103.3 229 3052 176 17.34
Smith .. 1150.5 278 2604 149 17.47
Copson .. 495.1 101 1398 76 18.39
* * * *
(1) What players have taken more wickets in
a Sheffield Shield fixture than O’Reilly’s 14 for
98 v. South Australia? (2) When did Tim Wall
take all the wickets in a Shield match? —8195.
(1) Giffen (S. Aus.), 16 for 186 v. N.S.W.
in 1894-95, and 15 for 185 v. Vic. in 1902-03 ;
Grimmett (S. Aus.) 16 for 289 v. Q. in 1934-35;
Fleetwood-Smith (Vic.) 15 for 96 v. Q. in
1936-37 and 15 for 226 v. N.S.W. in 1934-35;
McKibbin (N.S.W.) 15 for 125 v. S. Aus. in
1896-97. (2) Wall took 10 for 36 for S. Aus.
v. N.S.W. at Sydney in 1932-33.
* * * *
(1) What were the net proceeds from first-
class cricket matches played on the Sydney
Cricket Ground in 1936-37 ? (2) What help
did the N.S.W.C.A. give to clubs in 1936-37 ?
—8219.
(1) England v. N.S.W., £lOO3 12s. 5d.; Eng-
land v. An Australian XI, £1416 10s. 4d.; Eng-
land v. Australia (second Test), £3797 4s. 5d.;
N.S.W. v. Q., £123 18s. Bd.; N.S.W. v. South
Aus., £1162 12s. 6d.; N.S.W. v. Victoria, £9B
155.; total, £7967 15s. 6d. (2) £5O each to 16
district clubs, £lOO to N.S.W. Junior C.A., £4O
to City and Suburban C.A. and £lO each to
municipal and shire clubs.
* * * *
(1) Where and when was Joe Louis born ?
(2) Is that his correct name? (3) When did
Louis begin boxing? (4) Did he win the world’s
heavyweight championship from Primo Camera,
Max Baer or James J. Braddock? —8198.
(1) Lafayette, Ala., on May 13, 1914. (2)
His correct name is Joseph Louis Barrow.
(3) As an amateur in 1933, and, after winning
the Golden Gloves light-heavyweight champion-
ship at St. Louis on April 6, 1934, he had his
first professional fight at Chicago on July 4,
1934, when Jack Kracken was knocked out
by him inside one round. (4) Louis knocked
out Braddock in eight rounds at Chicago on
June 22 last, and then won the world’s heavy-
weight championship. Baer had conquered Car-
nera and Braddock had beaten Baer before
Louis knocked out Camera and Baer (on June
25 and September 14, 1935, respectively), so
both Camera and Baer were no longer cham-
pions when Louis defeated them.
* * * *
Lists of reigning European sovereigns and
dates of accession? —Bl69.
Albania, King Zogu I. (1928); Belgium, King
Leopold 111. (1934); Britain, King George VI.
(1936); Bulgaria, King Boris (1918); Denmark,
King Christian (1912); Greece, King George
(recalled 1935); Italy, King Victor Emmanuel
(1900); Yugoslavia, King Peter 11. (1934);
Liechtenstein, Prince Francis (1929); Luxem-
bourg, Grand Duchess Charlotte (1919);
Monaco, Prince Louis 11. (1922); Netherlands,
Queen Wilhelmina (1899); Norway, King
Haakon VII. (1905); Rumania, King Carol
(1930); and Sweden, King Gustavus V. (1907).
* * * «.
Amounts collected by the Federal Govern-
ment for each of the past four financial years
from land, income, estate and sales taxes? —
8173.
1933-34, land tax £1,325,393, income tax
£9,314,768, estate duty £1,511,296; sales tax
£8,695,689; 1934-35, land tax £1,281,424; in-
come tax £8,761,619; estate duty £1,507,827;
sales tax £8,554,076; 1935-36, land tax
£1,326,991, income tax £8,775,380, estate duty
£1,472,860, sales tax £9,432,483 ; 1936-37, land
tax £1,435,465, income tax £8,556,014, estate
duty £1,792,600, sales tax £8,008,427.
* * * *
Has powdered glass poisonous properties ?
—8133.
None whatever; the belief is a popular
fallacy. During a murder trial hinging upon the
alleged use of powdered glass by the accused a
medical witness once offered to swallow a table-
spoonful in court. Attempts have been made
to poison rats and mice with the glass,
but the animals when killed and examined have
been found to be in normal health.
it: * * sfc
Who gave Port Darwin its name? —8156.
Port Darwin was named on September 9,
1839, by officers of H.M.S. Beagle, “as an
appropriate opportunity of convincing an old
shipmate and friend that he still lived in our
memory.” Darwin was on the Beagle during
the 1831-36 voyage under Captain Fitzroy.
The voyage of 1937-43 was commenced under
the command of Captain Wickham, succeeded,
from 1841 on, by Captain Stokes.
* * * *
Why is it that objects lying on the sea floor
can be seen more distinctly from a great height
above sea level? —8119.
If the surface of the water were perfectly still
the height of the observer would have no effect
on the visibility of an object located immedi-
ately underneath him. The advantage gained
by increasing the height lies in the greater area
over which the line to the object may be re-
garded as being practically vertical. In the case
of an object located far from the perpendicular
in relation to the height, visibility is obscured
by reflections from the surface of the water.
* * * *
What is a safe rate at which to lose weight
while undergoing treatment for obesity? —Bl4l.
The best authorities believe that one should
not lose more than two pounds per week,
the average loss being three to six pounds a
month. The patient may thus safely lose 20
to 25 pounds over a period of four or five
months, and should maintain this weight for
three or four months before any further reduc-
tion is attempted. A greater rate of reduction
should be undertaken only when the person
concerned is able to remain constantly in bed
and under the care of a physician who will
watch for dangerous reactions.
* * * *
Particulars concerning a botanist named
Hibbert after whom Hibbertia dentata and
other Australian flowers have been named? —
8076.
George Hibbert, a fairly distinguished grower
of plants in England during the early part of
last century, was especially known tor his
collection of plants from the Cape of Good
Hope, where he kept a collector specially en-
gaged. He apparently had an extensive col-
lection of growing plants from all parts of the
world, and was also interested in the scientific
aspect of botany. He was a Fellow of the
Royal Society and Fellow of the Linnean
Society.
* * * *
What value have mushrooms as food? —
8159.
Owing to the large amounts of cellulose they
contain, and the increased compactness pro-
duced hy cooking, they are not easily digested.
The absorption of these fungi is imperfect,
large amounts of their proteins (up to two-
fifths) being excreted unchanged. Their carbo-
hydrates are also of uncertain nutritive value.
They have no greater worth as foods than
fresh vegetables, and, in view of their high
price, must be looked upon as luxuries.
* * * *
Particulars of radio play competition being
conducted by the Sydney Drama Society? —
8135.
A prize of £3 3s. is offered. Actual playing
time is not to exceed 30 minutes; no play
which haS been previously broadcast shall be
eligible; all plays must be typewritten and
signed by a nom de plume only. Each play
must be accompanied by a sealed envelope con-
taining the name and address of the author.
The nom de plume only must be written on
envelope containing play. Entrance fee is
2s. 6d., and all entries must reach the Sydney
Drama Society not later than March 31, 1938.
Entries should be addressed to the secretary,
Radio Play Competition, Sydney Drama
Society, Scot Chambers, Hosking-place, Sydney.
* * * *
Some details concerning the author of “The
Ballad of Rory O’More.” —8200.
The ballad, which was, and is still, very
popular, was written by Samuel Lover (1797-
1868), a novelist and poet. “Rory O’More”
achieved fame in 1826. Lover’s best novel is
Handy Andy (1842); this almost alone of his
works of fiction is still read, but now princi-
pally by boys, A National Romance (1837) and
Treasure Trove (1844) being almost entirely
forgotten. He wrote many songs and several
plays and one of the worst volumes of
parodies ever issued, Rival Rhymes (1859).
* * * *
(1) What is the Koran, by whom was it com-
piled and how many chapters does it com-
prise ? (2) Has it been translated into English ?
(3) Is there a work in English which explains
its teachings ? —BlB7.
(1) The sacred book of Islam, it consists of
the “Revelations” received, according to its
founder Mahomet,, from God, and was com-
piled after the Prophet’s death by his secretary,
Zaid-ibn-Thabit, by order of the Caliph Abu
Bekir. The book is written in Arabic, and
consists of 114 suras or chapters of varying
length, which are arranged according to size,
the longest first. They are not numbered,
but bear distinctive headings, such as the
Cow, the Star, Congealed Blood, etc., taken
from the particular chapter. (2) Yes, by G.
Sale. (3) The Koran, Its Composition and
Teaching, by Sir W. Muir.
# * * *
Some particulars concerning Sarah Siddons,
the actress? —8202.
Born in 1755, she was the daughter of Roger
Kemble, and at the age of 18 married an actor,
William Siddons. Garrick engaged her in 1775
to play at Drury Lane as Portia, but she was not
successful in this and other parts. She did not
return to the metropolis until 1782, when, her
improvement being marked, she drew the town,
and was a favorite with the public until her
retirement in 1812. As Lady Macbeth, and in
other tragic roles, she was at her best, her
dignified presence and splendid voice being
especially suited to these parts. She died in
1831. There are biographies by Boaden (1827)
and Campbell (1834). Also Portrait d’une
Actrice, by A. Maurois.
Did John Gould name one of the Australian
finches in memory of his wife ? If so, can you
describe it for me ? —8176.
Yes, the Gouldian or painted finch (P.
gouldice), the most strikingly colored of all our
finches. Its head is black, margined with cobalt
blue all round; its back green, with a patch of
blue on the rump; its breast lilac; and its
underparts golden yellow, with a patch of white
under the tail. It is also interesting because
in some individuals the black of the face be-
comes replaced,by bright scarlet when they are
a few years old, in others the black mask is re-
tained throughout life. The scarlet-headed
birds were at one time thought to constitute
a distinct species.
* * * *
A few details concerning marmosets ?
8196.
They are a family of South American
monkeys, sometimes called bear-monkeys from
their somewhat bearlike extremities, the feet-
having paws and claws which are necessary
for the marmoset’s mainly insectivorous habits.
The face is short, and the thirty-two teeth in-
clude only two molars on each side. The tail
is not prehensile. Marmosets are all arboreal
in habit, climbing and jumping with great
activity. They are not very intelligent, but
their gentleness and pretty appearance make
them popular pets. The common marmoset is
about the size of a squirrel, with darkish-
brown fur and long bushy tail marked with
alternate rings of black and grey. The sides of
the head bear a long tuft of whitish hair
over the ears.
* * * *
What is the difference between the
female yellow-crested cockatoo ? Should the
male have more crest than the female ? —8053.
There is no definite means of distinguishing
between a male and female sulphur-crested
cockatoo. At the age of 10 or 12 years the
female may develop a very pale pink round
the eye, but up till then there is no outward
distinction between the sexes.
* * * *
What are the breeding habits of sandflies,
can they be eradicated and what will ease the
pain of their bites ? —7992.
All sandflies are aquatic in their breeding
habits, the eggs being deposited in stagnant
water, in which the larval and pupal stages
are passed and from which the adult insect
emerges. It may be carried some distance by
winds, but is usually found close to the breed-
ing-place. Nets are useless as a protection,
owing to the extremely small size of the fly.
To prevent sandflies breeding, any collection
of stagnant water should be drained or regu-
larly emptied at intervals of a few days. To
reduce the irritation produced by the bite,
the spot should be rubbed with a dilute alkali,
such as a weak solution of ammonia. In order
to repel the insects, the skin may be rubbed
with oil of citronella, or with a dilute solution
of quinine in water. Another repellent which
has been recommended is oil of cassia loz.,
brown oil of camphor 20z., vaseline or lano-
line 3oz. Mix thoroughly. Smear on exposed
parts of the skin.
* * * *
(1 ) How to make a waterproof casein cement?
(2) A waterproof casein gum and varnish for
coating paper? —Bl26.
(1) Add a little vinegar to seven gills of milk
to curdle it, collect the curd by draining the
whey off through a cloth, then mix four or five
eggs with the soft curd. When well mixed
add sufficient of the freshly-made curd to make
it into a stiff paste and use at once, as it sets
quickly; it is waterproof and resists fire heat.
(2) Make a saturated solution of carbonate of
soda or potash and dissolve casein in it to the
desired consistency. This fluid can be used
as a gum or varnish for coating paper, and
such coating can be rendered waterproof by the
application, before the casein is quite dry, of
a solution of basic chrome alum.
* * * *
Value of spade guinea dated 1797 ? —7972.
Collector value was 265. when gold was at
Mint par. Nowadays a fair price would be
somewhere about 465.
* * * *
I wish to raise some red-flowering gum-trees
on a farm. At what stage are pods suitable
for picking and how should they be treated
before planting out in boxes ? —7978.
Red-flowering gums are not difficult to raise
from seed. The capsules, or pods, can be
taken from the tree when they appear to
be getting dry and turning brown, which is


800 MOUTH ORGAN
BANDS FORMED IN
ENGLAND IN 2 YEARS
Anyone can
learn to play a
mouth organ. N o
musical knowledge is required!
That is why thousands are
forming mouth-organ bands in
England and America . . .
and finding endless enjoyment
in playing all kinds of music.
Buy a
HOHNER
AUTO - VALVE - HARP
Mouth Organ
Send your name and address
and 3d. in stamps to Dept.
SB2, Box 855 K, G.P.0., Mel-
bourne, and we will send you
a Free Mouth Organ Tutor
which will enable you to play
favourite tunes in a few hours.
Tell your friends about this
offer and form a band!
The HOHNER Auto-Valve-Vamper
MOUTH ORGAN is sold by all music
and fancygoods stores. Price. .3/-
Public Notices.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with Any
Insurance Company Not Registered
in New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions being owners, trustees or agents for any
goods or property within the Sydney Fire Dis-
trict, and every other Fire District in the
State of New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, in
respect of which premiums are paid to an in-
surance company not registered in the State,
are hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners of
New South Wales returns showing the amount
of such premiums paid by them in respect of
the said property to such insurance companies
during the year 1937.
The time appointed for receipt of the re-
turns is on or before the 31st January, 1938;
subject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day
for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the time
such property was in any Fire District under
the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are re-
quired to send to the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales returns showing
the total amount of the premiums received by
or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st Decem-
ber, 1937, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1927, applies, less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
. The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1938; sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds
for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required re-
turns may be obtained from the undersigned.
. By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
_ , Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
4
r>
a
ijij U\v /*i l
P^S:d^c e X p Z eat a ' luxurff
c lean
S ’?^& ;^ee^« an( , an ,
svays r?? to °«e vrw , te ltlc identJl * iow fa r es V, *** gen *
bey m^ZrtUr y-ths, ■ laie *p^e S ,Doe «^
=f ch an „„_ 3 ’ooo « travel _ .
conve
Educed t 6r8 ’ and ®ode^t eCOn “»“o/T *
Vay 8 f to °ne Vo »v7 , te 'ntidentJi* iow fa r es V, *** gej
l^%l bey m^Z7tUr y~~tha t ■ ’noe»re »r
e freTied °? cAa «ge of’ 000 ®«e c’ n ' 3 tr «eJ on ,
r? 8 »%Ci " ,i °«/a n C a »d span f «erie a . 8
.« u r» «fer
°° extra
baa f
£2?* • a
m *4S ts in <£SS? “?»tS u ; e 75 Cl 8 '!
ZZTco nIy Zt y n7dT d ■ ■• sl a SMemo r’Z e o(' i sC d
hatb <*, and IT * n 'l»bhpZ hili,yeS - a :Z° a^Z Pe ‘<
Me moi , ° Ce ° a » tr a f n ? inoJ„d?" Ulne «i“e a L ,n ? J «fc
faugi, - es ’. f oo, of a v !f? . Va H ladie^ 10 * 18
rat- a? 8 Slrer * of t if ast and f ao . Blste rede ma id,
rat > New Gri * the silver . tasci *atincr . a nu rse/ ’
,e UrJish .1. r^ea «s, r screen: §. nation
ie ron 8
tneajg
a Ble fPers Memo o J^o7sC d
OZ° mpaa ‘<Zhl Pethi «S
stes?@S2ft?
M emo . "°° Ce « a ir^»^eV inc &»» e in c/„
and ; as s,e^-4S^ s^
t» iVeiy Ori 1 t/le sily* tasci natincr «Ur Be /
C^7Z M San JZZo o Z***** th
P* *w : a ' u -S c a «t 9ue^C ? ftSf
. a ? l posa orL tray e J. tr .» r ” er floods aw a, *s, Granw
l**lu Stan: th , u d t *^m[ nd
a «» a , H»” . e ° r die So,,,Vic tor C Jn° M .
crat
, . ferment. N ld! Picture* 1
r atson-0^
a i°« l8 e days ! ioera
'
sss&z::
tiou of fl eac ied froJ?a ays ’ w^ e / Weej
. JSMkSBT" 13 :
. Coa stoaat7 d: ol,
! S . ho «. l Se,e c
r*4 Vfi .
dr^fe®!
f et Syd oev m Z Li '^-y>
Sydney y)
STREAMLINE
TRAIN SPEEDS ACROSS
THE WESTERN
k
Jil
14
PLAINS
#
1
\
s:
usually in the spring or early summer; the cap-
sules can then be left in the sun for a time,
when they will open and the seed can easily
be shaken out. Seed can be sown in the ordi-
nary way during the spring or early summer,
when germination will not take long. ine
young plants should be ready for planting out
in from five to six months.
Brief Answers.
H.H.: Cannot see that either the council
or police could force you to remove it from
private property provided the stall was on
wheels and not in any way fixed into the
ground, also that it was placed so as not to
interfere with free traffic on the footway and
that no nuisance was created by its presence.
The wise course for you to take _is to con-
sult the council clerk before setting ‘up the
stall J.K.: (1) Yes. (2) “Ceremonial rites”
may be associated with a wedding, but do not
in themselves constitute a legal marriage. To
marry legally the minister must be licensed and
the legal form of marriage embodied in the
church service. The Anglican church as a
whole does not approve of the remarriage of
divorced persons with other partners, but allows
a degree of discretion to its ministers....
E.W.W.: The longest period of sustained heat
at Marble Bar (W.A.) was from October 31,
1923, to April 7, 1924, when the maximum
thermometer registered over lOOdeg. F. daily.
. ...E.G.: Process unknown to agricultural
experts in this country.... D.E.: Feodor Ivan-
ovitch Chaliapin, the opera singer, is 64. He
began singing in opera in 1890. He was de-
prived by the Soviet of his title of “people’s
artist” in June, 1927... .T.D.H.: Princess
Alice, Countess of Athlone, is the daughter of
the late Duke and Duchess of Albany. She
married in 1904 the Earl of Athione, and has
a daughter, Lady May Abel-Smith H.H.:
For stains on nickel rub the marks with a rag
dipped in ammonia. Leave to dry, then polish.
If a blemish still remains try plate powder in
conjunction with ammonia or methylated
spirits... .P.T.: The word “speakeasy” was in
common use in America long before the pass-
ing of the 18th Amendment, which introduced
Prohibition. A standard reference-book quotes
a passage from a Philadelphian newspaper of
1904 in which the word is used to denote what
in Australia is known as a sly-grog shop
C.C.: See Hugh McCrae’s Georgiana’s Journal
and My Father and My Father’s Friends....
S.S.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural Dept., Syd-
ney, for leaflet, “Preserving Oranges, Lemon
Juice and Kumquats” H.C.C.: Booth and
Nicol’s Physics, Duncan and Starling’s Text-
book of Physics, Watson’s Intermediate
Physics, Spinney’s Textbook of Physics, Black
and Davis’s New Practical Physics, Smith’s In -
termediate Physics and Houston’s Intermediate
Physics. .. .J.T.L.: Write the Co-operative
Building Advisory Committee, care Registry of
Co-operative Societies, Blashki Building, 61
Hunter-street, Sydney F.L.J.: Full particu-
lars are obtainable from the Department of
Labor and Industry, Sydney... .C.R.N.: For
Service Pensions purpose New Britain has been
declared a theatre of war as from midnight
September 10-11, 1914, to midnight Septem-
ber 21-22, 1914 H.J.: French Indo-China
has an area of about 285,000 square miles and
had a population in 1936 of 23,230,000, including
30,711 French, 332,000 foreigners and 22,637,000
Annamites P.T.: C. lanceolatus, the
common red bottle-brush, is found in Victoria,
Queensland and N. S. Wales, and is plentiful
in swamps in the Port Jackson district. Under
cultivation it displays great variation in habit,
height, foliage and shade of red C.H.: Les
Robinson has had published one book of short
stories, The Giraffe’s Uncle, published by the
Macquarie Head Press, Sydney; price 4s
H.M.: Write Royal Aero Club of N.S.W.
and Airflite Pty.—both at Mascot Aerodrome,
Mascot, N.S.W W.C.D.: G. McGirr was
N.S.W. Minister for Health and Motherhood
from April 13, 1920, to April 13, 1922; from
October 10, 1921, to December 20, 1921, he
was also Minister for Labor. James McGirr
was N.S.W. Minister for Health from Novem-
ber 4, 1930, to June 17, 1931; Minister for
Local Government from June 17, 1931, to
May 13, 1932, and Minister for Transport from
March 22, 1932, to May 3, 1932... .E.V.S.:
(1), (3), (4) and (5) Too complicated to de-
scribe here; consult textbook on advanced
mensuration. (2) The mean of' circle areas
based on major and minor diameters
G.W.F.: Reduce to pence and work by simple
arithmetic G.G.D.: The artist was Frede-
rick Terry, born 1827 and died 1869. He arrived
in Sydney in the early ’fifties from England,
and is represented in the Mitchell Library and
the Sydney Gallery. He worked for John
Sands, did lithographs and probably woodcuts,
and was a good artist, of his time... .C.J.S.:
There are no set rules as to share-farming con-
tracts, the landowner usually making his own
terms with the share-farmers. It is the prac-
tice for the landowner to supply seed and
copper carbonate for its treatment. If super-
phosphate is used the owner supplies half
H.L.W.: The standard 10 or 12 and the
Willys 37 are suitable; both employ four-wheel
hand brakes, but any car fitted with mechani-
cal four-wheel brakes could be easily con-
verted W.R.T.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural
Dept., Sydney, for pamphlet “Insect Pests of
Stored Grain,” by T. McCarthy C.S.:
Rafael Sabatini, author and dramatist, was
born at Jessi, Central Italy, in 1875; only son
of late Maestro Cav. Vincenzo Sabatini and
Anna Trafford. He was educated at Ecole
Cantonale, Zoug, Switzerland, and Lycee of
Oporto, Portugal (Many others mailed.)


The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for Humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
-sr/iysiy/jjvyr
Will
S 7
7 da/zw'vyr
mz
S/
4m
-iliiH
m
m*
X
•rrrffsi
!S
&SM !' j»
j "
B
•fca
*gg
us
Mi
ife
■a
•fia trfl
m isi
\mHi
SW#I
wi
fl
N§
kK^isgefe
■M£m
i 2!•*!•!•• • J *! :•::*••
. -
W £3
pjtj
-■• : -"
: ■ •.-
XX
m
mmm
j >paaq auioapAV y
Distrioutors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. ----- Adelaide
Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantle
Macfarlane Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobart
m
m
ii
Cooler in a "Calcutta”
When it comes to cool headwear, you cannot beat the
Genuine “CALCUTTA” Indian Pith Helmet. Covered
with white linen drill, with red silk lining and self pug-
garee, the “CALCUTTA” is obtainable in Australia only
from Pike Brothers. Price 22/6
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
of Queen Street Brisbane
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
E.L.G.: Can’t make much of that batch.
. ...B.McK.: ‘‘Up to Sample” isn’t.... 1.M.:
Nothing for us there... .A.A.K.: Nor did
‘‘No Survivors” see out the distance
H. : Steer clear of Con Drew’s paddock.
W.T.G.S.: Well handled, but not so
as to make it a Bulletin yarn....T.D.Y.:
The office-boy’s whistle has more rhythm
than your verse W.M.L.: Bright enough
in spots, but you struggle too hard
for effect 8.R.C.: It may be free verse, but
you couldn’t even give it away J.T.H.: An
irregular mix-up of forced rhymes... .T.T.S.:
You’re only using verse as a medium to tell
the world your woes N.T.H.: A specimen:
’E walked about with ’is shirt 'alf out.
To ’ide where ’is pants were ’oled;
’E was long V thin —all bone ’n* skin,
‘N’ ’is ’ands were blue with cold;
But ’e gave not a damn for woman or man,
’Cos ’is pockets were full of gold.
• ...EJ.: We can’t spread “Two Hundred
Dead Men” over a couple of pages....
I. : You’ve a lot to learn.... L.L.W.:
“Canaries” might find a cage elsewhere....
J. Off our beat A. 8.: Nearly got there;
try something more cheerful J.T.N.: Doesn’t
hit the mark... .P.R.D.: Now get an original
idea... .A. 8.5.: Morbid, and it wanders too
much G. 8.: Our grandparents used to lap
up that sort of stuff F.G.: Doesn’t make
a yarn... .D.M.: Someone else beat you to
that character P.M.: Possibilities, but the
ending spoiled it....P.A.: Vague E.L.:
No! R.F.D.: Reminiscent of O. Henry’s
last and unfinished yarn F.S.: We shy away
from miracles J.P.F.: You’ve a long way
to travel, but there’s no harm in trying
G.O’M.: Interesting, but not for us J.F.H.:
You might place it if you cut out the idea of
a sweet young thing toiling in a mine....
G.W.8.M.: Tripe... .1.M.G.: Don’t like that
one, but try us with something brighter
W.S.L.: Might make a par A.T.T.: That
idea comes in twice a week R.8.Q., W.G.M.,
G.V. arid D.G.S.: Try them elsewhere....
N. 8.8.: Even the first page was too much for
us J.S.H.: Not bad in parts, but it fell
to bits at the finish.. .C.J.R.: You hit the mark
with one; you’ve missed since E.G.R.S.:
Falls short... .R.M.: So does “Skinny Lizzie.”
A.S.: Afraid “The Bargain” isn’t much
use to you... .G.MacD.L.: Not up
E.C.H.: Begins well, but it ends up nowhere.
R.E.: An idea there, but you don’t make
it stick M.J.L.: Once more —cut by half it
should stand a chance... .H.L.S.: No cheers
for “The Other People”.... M.F.: Afraid
you’ll never catch our eye with that sort of
thing G.D.: You’re another who has taken
Con Drew as a model, but you merely copy
him slavishly H.T.: Send your “tall, dark,
handsome-looking stranger” to a flapper mag.
....A.C.: That old-maid typist with the heart
of gold is a regular visitor.
XO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
__nturcnnur.™™
CUKRESPONDENTS,
< ha > Sag with one of the
r7s°"
More [ ik<! " Borneo head-hunter than an Aus-
trai;an ihr. pp. .. „;ii „ jlu j T
mal ye „ jf ” ouTyour threat to send'
in two drawings a week W.C.: We suspect
the debt-collector is walking about on stilts. .
N.N.: Fair student’s work; look us up at the
end of your training W. 8.: Jest has whis-
kers a yard long, and the drawing lacks merit.
....P.J.: Well, you learned nothing about per-
spective for one thing K.A.: Looks as if
y°9 bad emptied a fountain-pen on a sheet of
Bristol-board and left it at that H.T.: Since
Parkhill is no longer in the Ministry, cartoon
has , no p °int-• --0. J.: Youngsters on
ton tam/™ bUt the J u ke 1 ?,- far
,ion in 'anoThS 20 VS .. P Q w’:'
Figures too stiff and angular; jest has been
worn threadbare... .P.L.: Gent, who saw the
New Year in under the table has already ap-
peared in an American magazine R.C.:
“March to Nationhood” cartoon this week’s
m ost ambitious effort, also this week’s biggest
f10p....8.A.: Growing weary of the map of
Australia done as a man’s face E.N.R.:
Fl % ur - es P T os ed, but linework is too heavy
ar J fh Ja ,uf ed fi '* ;' Y ° U \a rP*. 11 * g ° wr ? n §
with the first stroke... . M.D. i Not so bad
except for the mess you made in foreshortening
the arms... .N.S.: If you had only concealed
the drawing as successfully as you have con-
cealed the point of the gag all would have been
well TJ.: Snake-charmer dismissed without
regrets F. 8.: Untidy drawings, stale gags.
A.H.8.: Cartoon in praise of cold tea
should have been sent to “Grit”... .W.A.:
Y ou f e poaching. ...M.M.C.: No room for
drawings that make fun of lunatics... .E.D.:
X ou s b° u ld soon reach the cheque-earning
Si„rf„Hhe a Sde n dr 0 a w d i e „ t . aiIS „V v"
twffis . .CB.: Hopeless. 8 ® S ®
A MIXED GRILL.
“C.V.S.”: Went in to buy socks and
was offered a pair, obviously half-cotton.
On the foot were prominently displayed
the words “PURE WOOL,” and under-
neath “Reinforced with cotton.” Rein-
forced !
* * * *
Northern Ireland’s representative at
the 150th anniversary celebrations is
Lieut.-Colonel A. R. Gordon, who was
badly knocked at Le Cateau. His wounds
did not deter him from serving on a
divisional staff during the rest of the
war, and he was mentioned five times in
dispatches and won the D.S.O. and Croix
de Guerre. He sits for East Down in the
Ulster Parliament.
* * * *
British Labor suffered a great moral
loss when old Lansbury dropped out of
the leadership and was succeeded by All-
Expenses-Paid Attlee. Nowadays Lans-
bury rarely speaks in the House of Com-
mons, but' he made one of his rare con-
tributions to its discussions during the
foreign-affairs debate in which the Labs,
and Libs, made shrill demands for inter-
vention in Spain and China, and threw
the customary mud at Hitler and Musso-
lini. The old man rebuked no one, but
said simply: “Herr Hitler’s first words
to me were that if there were another
war there would be neither victors nor
vanquished, but ruin for everybody.”
* * * *
“El V.”: It is to be hoped that, if there
is a race for naval cruisers in connec-
tion with the 150th anniversary celebra-
tions, it will be a handicap. Otherwise,
Australian entries are in for a bad time.
Italy is dispatching the Montecuccoli,
which packs the same horse-power as
that of the British 31,000-tonners
Renown and Repulse into a 5800-ton
hull. The Australia and the Canberra,
each 4000 tons greater, have 30,000 h.p.
less, and their speed is only 31| knots
against the Italian’s 37 knots. The new
Sydney boasts 32| knots. Not that
Mussolini’s ship, built in 1934-35, is
really speedy by the latest standards.
Italy has a destroyer or two capable of
44 knots, and France has one class of
cruisers which managed 45.2 knots on
their trials and have a range of 2500
miles.
* * * *
“K.1.N.”: Fellows who camp in
hollow logs are plentiful; the man who
makes his temporary home in a 200 gal.
ship’s tank isn’t so common. During
floods on the Thompson River (W.Q.)
there was a fellow on Warbreccan sta-
tion who was camped at the Wash-Pool.
His tent was gone. The only thing left
was an empty ship’s tank. He turned it
on its side and crawled in through the
manhole. After he’d been in there an
hour or so he found the heat generated
by his own body made a Turkish bath
of the thing—the manhole was at ground-
level. He tried to punch a hole near the
top to act as a ventilator; no good, so
he had to put up with it. The ’skeeters
made a main track of the entrance, and
he couldn’t light a fire to make a smoke
inside; the ground and timber were too
wet to make one outside. One night
of it, then he ploughed, waded, bogged
and swam to Mutti, the outstation, leav-
ing the tank behind him with no “To
Let” notice hung over the manhole.
* * * *
Earl Beauchamp, writing
from Madresfield Court, where he was
for Christmas and the coming-of-age of
his youngest son, expresses great interest
in our 150th birthday celebrations. He
sends some lines —no, not Kipling’s, but
those of the Darwin who wrote
Where Sydney Cove her lucid bosom swells,
Courts her young navies, and the storm repels.
They now seem to have been truly in-
spired with the spirit of prophecy.
With secretary David Smyth, Lord
Beauchamp has been travelling through
Italy seeing shows —an Augustan in
Rome, a Giotto in Florence and a Tin-
toretto in Venice. In October Sydney’s
old friend goes to Washington for a
family gathering, and after that he hopes
to come on to his Sydney home
at 8 March-street. Earl Beauchamp’s
Christmas card was a reproduction of
Boucher’s portrait of Madame de Pom-
padour, in the gallery at Madresfield.


Livery
W eat Her
Calls for
Dr. Morse s Indian Root Pills
Does this present humid weather, with
cold snaps sandwiched in between,
make you feel washed out and devoid
of energy?
Do you go home from work with a
“liver” and perhaps find the family
similarly affected?
If so, a course of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills will be found most
beneficial. They stir the liver to
healthy action, regulate the bowels,
and corret indigestion.
TRY THEM TO-NIGHT!
* D- Morse’s
4
<M)
Q
\s
A
m
rn
/k
m
o
y
Mirpil
Is Ideal for
SUNBURN
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
oy worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
an a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
_o., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
>r 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
■*rice 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
ree.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
d
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regulai
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
* bV '
o 1
\**
*
f'V
e ’ *
<*
r.
«*
C°
0
0°
6
r-'°
5 e
*,V*
VV
\V e
vs*
a W*
sc > c^>vv 0<
.• ?<^


Make it a RATIONAL- Year!
fd
Above —Briton Console De Luxe features:
MODEL 19.—6/7 A.C. Dual-wave
Receiver, with 12in. imported Magnavox
Speaker, ELS output tube, built-in line
filter, complete in De Luxe Console
Cabinet. List Price 39 guineas
MODEL 18. —7-valve Dual-wave Battery-
operated Receiver, complete in De Luxe
Console Cabinet, with four B Batteries and
one (1) 145 amp. A Battery. List
Price 40 guineas
fd
Above —Mantel Model Cabinet feature*
two Models:—
MODEL I.—“ The Buccaneer,” 4/5 Dual-
wave A.C. Receiver, in Mantel Cabinet.
List Price 18 guineas
MODEL 15. 4-valve Broadcast Battery
Receiver, with full A.V. control, 6in.
Permag. Speaker, complete in Mantel
Cabinet. Low battery consumption of
lima. List Price 21 guineas
gfe Ensure Rational Radio Reception for the year 1938
with a glorious Rational Radio by Briton. Rational
Radio will give you everything worth while in
modern radio—Satisfaction is built into every Rational
Model. Rational Radio is Rational in Construction, in
Performance and in Price.
Every Rational Model is available on Rational Terms.
See the glorious examples of the craftsman’s art in
Rational polished walnut Veneer Cabinets!
RATIONAL RADIO
L BRITON ,
">kxs
....,
1
t
** .. ;■;• • .
Vviv/X^i
At Left—Briton Con-
sole Cabinet features:
MODEL 11.—5/6
Dual-wave A.C.
Receiver, with A.V.C.
and 12in. Speaker.
Complete in Cabinet.
Price . . 33 guineas
Also Models 12, 17
\nd 21, at different
•rices.
At Right Briton
Loughboy Cabinet
features:—
MODEL 9.—4/5
Broadcast A.C. Re-
ceiver, with A.V.C.,
complete in Cabinet.
Price ... 23 guineas
Also Models 10, 13,
16 and 20 at dif-
ferent prices.
f
BRITON ELECTRICAL AND RADIO Pty. Ltd.
152-156 PARRAMATTA ROAD, PETERSHAM, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Victorian Distributor:
A. H. Gibson (Electrical) Co. Pty., Ltd.
“The Brightest Spot in Melbourne"
416 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Telephone:
L 3621 (3 lines).
Queensland Distributor:
Irvine Radio and Electrical Co.,
11l Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
