

<K
3
sX
$
X
11 II
II I
1 II I
" ‘I II
» II
1 " II
II 1
11 1111
I ! .' 1111
1 '' II I,
I
® H
z %
fi
#Jt XX
y
x
X
&
t:
AT SEA OMAND
G/njoL
<s>
A self-contained and highly efficient wireless manufacturing industry, capable of ready
expansion if called upon, is essential to Australia’s needs.
The manufacture of wireless equipment commenced by Amalgamated Wireless in 1913
has developed until to-day at the A.W.A. modern Radio-Electric Works every type of
wireless equipment for use at sea, on land and in the air is produced. Wireless stations for
ships, for Australian coastal radio and Pacific Island stations, and broadcasting trans-
mitters for Australian and New Zealand services are but a few of the many products
manufactured.
The 60 k.w. broadcast transmitter of 2YA Wellington, built for the New Zealand broad-
casting services, the 20 k.w. transmitter used for the Wireless Telephone Service between
Australia and Great Britain, as well as the fourteen other transmitters at A.W.A. Radio
Centre, Pennant Hills, Sydney, used for various communication services, were manufac-
tured at the Company’s works.
In the field of aircraft, A.W.A. is installing for the Civil Aviation Board radio telegraphy
and telephony equipment at all the principal aerodromes in Australia, also a number of
ultra-high frequency radio course beacons.
Twenty-five commercial aircraft of various Australian airways companies carry A.W.A.
aircraft equipment.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3046.
Wednesday, June 29, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
JUSTICE EVATT ON BLIGH.
The latest hand to grasp this famous nettle is
Mr. Justice Herbert Vere Evatt’s. His book Rum
Rebellion, a study of the overthrow of Governor
Bligh by John Macarthur and the New South Wales
Corps (Angus and Robertson), is a most salutary piece
of work. It acts as an astringent upon a subject that
has become swollen and distorted with romance, and
rescues Bligh from, says the author, “condemnation
from Hollywood, the sentences of which have uni-
versal jurisdiction.”
Rum Rebellion examines the legal bases of the
struggle between the Governor, Macarthur and the
Corps, and on every count vindicates the Governor.
Bligh was right. The story is laid out with the great-
est precision and accuracy.
First Evatt outlines what he calls the “copy-book
tradition,” or the popular version of Bligh’s tyranny
which he proposes to debunk. As a first step to re-
futing the legend that the cause of the Rum Rebellion
was Bligh’s overbearing and tyrannical disposition he
shows that the officers of the N.S.W. Corps—the
monopolists and rum traffickers who were ruining the
infant colony financially by their rapacity, and morally
—employed against Governors Hunter and King, who
also tried to curb their privileges, tactics similar to
those which led to the overthrow of Bligh. Since
Bligh was a man of stronger character than either of
his predecessors the conflict was more acute but
not different in nature. Bligh almost succeeded in
repressing the rum traffic and re-establishing order,
and it was this that brought on the crisis.
Then the author examines Bligh’s character and
record. This is human, not legal, ground, and Evatt
shows himself very humanly partisan. He can find
no fault in Bligh and ends with the words, “Whilst
he was Governor his thoughts turned continually to
the unutterable tragedy of the colony’s orphan children.
He made every endeavor to assist them. Bligh’s com-
passion for the little children sprang from a nature
which was religious in the way which often charac-
terises simple men whose business takes them on
great waters.” A sentimental evaluation.
The book then examines the five cases that led
up to the revolt, the Case of the Promissory Note,
the Case of D’Arcy Wentworth, the Case of Imported
Stills, the Case of the Schooner Parramatta, and the
Case of Sedition, and shows them to be a tenacious
effort on the part of the Corps to wrest justice out of
the hands of the Governor and the Courts.
The Courts were the true forum of the little colony.
They had no competitors as a means of expressing
individual or public grievances. There was no legislature,
no municipal government, no avowed political associa-
tion or party, no theatre and no independent press. On
the one hand there was the legal dictatorship of the
Governor as the sole legislative and executive authority,
and the final authority in the civil jurisdiction, and thus
dictatorship was being exercised by Bligh in favor of the
agriculturists and poor settlers against the wealthy
traffickers and monopolists. On the other hand the
military officers had the real control of the criminal
judicature, and, as the leading phalanx of the rum
traffickers and monopolists, their economic power, pre-
viously uncontrolled, was threatened.
Thus neatly does Evatt run his sheep into the pen
designated for its slaughter. By analysis of the cases
and-other events Evatt proves that the rebellion was
planned and fomented and was not, as was claimed,
a sudden outburst against intolerable tyranny. John
Macarthur, Bligh’s protagonist, is represented as a
Machiavelli of the darkest dye. The story of the rising
itself occupies little space, and no attempt is made to
create drama from it. It is followed by an analysis
of the rule of the three self-styled Lieutenant-Gov-
ernors, Johnston, Foveaux and Paterson, using test
cases from the courts to illustrate their partisan use
of justice.
The book ends with an account of Johnston’s
court-martial in England and a broadside for Bligh.
“Certainly, a close study shows that Bligh was not
only a man of courage and honor, but a man of
science and character, and, rarest perhaps of all, a
man with something of a gift for practical statesman-
ship. Sooner or later history will pronounce final
judgment upon William Bligh. It will be in his favor.”
It has piquancy that so strong an advocate of
Bligh should choose for frontispiece and to embel-
lish the dust jacket the cartoon of Bligh being igno-
miniously hauled from under a servant’s bed by the
soldiers. On the legal side Mr. Justice Evatt’s book
is unassailable by a layman, or, as C. Hartley Grattan
puts it in his foreword, “Mr. Justice Evatt’s study of
William Bligh’s career in New South Wales is of such
a unique character that it would be highly impertinent
for anyone not equally learned in the law to do
more than circle round the fringes of it.” But even
a reviewer may say that Rum Rebellion offers the
firmest basis for discussion of this controversial
period yet produced.
Uncle Sam's Lyre.
When English poetiy, despite the vegetarian diet
prescribed by the Georgians, became very ill, vigorous
treatment had to be called in from somewhere, and
a course of American gusto was a possible solution.
The Americans spoke a language resembling English ;
and, freed by Walt Whitman from the Anglicism of
Emerson and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, the poets
were having a rollicking time of it. As it happened,
English poetry did invoke American aid.
But instead of drawing new life from the odd
vitality across the Atlantic, it called in the expatriate
practitioners, Dr. Eliot and Dr. Pound, who promptly
removed the body to the operating-theatre, where the
younger vivisectionists are now experimenting with
it. It is worth considering that the present state of
English poetry may be wholly due to the social
inferiority felt by those wandering Yankees when
confronted with the culture of Bloomsbury. Certainly
they seemed to have reacted in the inevitable manner
of expatriates by striving to out-Roman the Romans,
oul-learn the learned, outwit the wise.
In America, the indigenous growth which could
really have infused new life into the Georgian anremia
flourished in isolation, and has to-day the strength
and individuality for which the Spender-Auden group
are still seeking in vain.
Though the half-humorous power of much con-
temporary American poetry is a purely national pheno-
menon, its most characteristic rhythms, oratorical
rather than lyrical, derive through Whitman almost
directly from the psalms of David. Whitman was a
preacher, a prophet; his poems are incantations:
Shine! Shine! Shine!
Pour down your warmth, great sun!
While we bask, we two together.
Two together!
Winds blow south, or winds blow north,
Day come white or night come black,
Home or rivers and mountains from home,
Singing all time, minding no time,
While we two keep together.
It is oratory rather than poetry, but the poets
who came after him beat his exuberance into satisfy-
ing form. When Whitman was past middle-age Amy
Lowell was born, and in her verse rhyme and order
returned but incantation remained:
I shall go
Up and down
In my gown,
Gorgeously arrayed,
Boned and stayed.
For the man who should loose me is deadj
Fighting with the Duke in Flanders
In a pattern called war.
Christ! What are patterns for?
Whitman as a poet was an extremely muscular
person. Amy Lowell, of course, was not. But she dared
to write as a woman—a Sylvia Warner or a Laura
Riding before suffragettes were dreamed of. She
had Whitman’s courage and the feminine equivalent
of his power. The tradition of muscularity, again
expressed in incantation, was carried on by her con-
temporary, Carl Sandburg, born in 1878 : -
Pile the bodies high at Austerlitz and Waterloo.
Shovel them under and let me work —
I am the grass; I cover all.
And pile them high at Gettysburg,
And pile them high at Ypres and Verdun.
Shovel them under and let me work.
Two years, ten years, and passengers ask the conductor:
What place is this?
Where are we now?
In a splendid oration, “The Strong Men”:
Call hallelujah, call deep thanks,
The strong men keep coming on—
Sandburg restated Whitman’s gigantic nationalism,
and another poet of the same period, Vachel Lindsay,
some of whose verse was recently quoted on the Red
Page, made the same affirmation with “Johnny Apple-
seed.” American poets are proud to be American.
One of the latest of them to publish his verse, Paul
Engle, calls his book American Song, and passionately
American it is:
Virgin body
Of rich American earth, the silver stroking
Of the smooth hands of ploughs mated you to those
Men, and the lusty seeds of the new corn struck
Their roots in Missouri River silt where the naked
Dakota squaws danced fertility in you.
Engle’s enthusiasm is both naive and imitative,
but it is none the less sincere. Rooted in the Ameri-
can character, his verse has a much better chance of
survival than the eccentricities of his older com-
patriot, E. E. Cummings, who has the self-conscious
sophistication of Pound and Eliot. Cummings, in The
Enormous Room, wrote one of the best prose works
that came out of the Great \Yar, but vitality is sadly
lacking from:
to me to you nothing is
what particularly
matters hence in a
little sunlight and less
moonlight ourselves against the worms
hate laugh shimmy.
Among the sophisticated American poets, Hart
Crane occasionally “shimmies,” Allen Tate is too
deliberately, though richly, cosmopolitan ; but John
Crowe Ransom, avoiding Engle’s sentimentality, is
wholly American. From Robert Frost, born in 1875
and still writing, he learned to say a plain thing
plainly, but he preserves Whitman’s declamatory
effects to save him from Frost’s prosiness. Frost has
written some of the dullest pedestrianisms since Long-
fellow, but every now and again he achieves the magic
simplicity of “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy
Evening”:
My little horse must think it queer
To stop without a farmhouse near
Between the woods and frozen lake
The darkest evening of the year.
He gives his harness bells a shake
To ask if there is some mistake.
The only other sound’s the sweep
Of easy wind and downy flake.
Slightly less simple, much more powerful, Ran-
som says of a “Dead Boy”:
A black cloud full of storms too hot for keeping,
A sword beneath his mother’s heart —yet never
Woman bewept her babe as this is weeping.
With Frost and Ransom can be listed Conrad
Aiken and that splendid sonneteer, Edna St. Vincent
Millay, as poets who, while not deliberately national,
have expressed the “American dream” in poetry as
Dreiser and Thomas Wolfe have done in prose.
The latest English anthologies have admitted the
Americans as they admit the South African Roy
Campbell, and it is possible that they will lead the
reaction from the inert parlor Communism of the
Spender group. In the meantime it is worth while
for Australian poets to realise that America has
achieved a vigorous national poetry of its own. The
same thing must happen here in time. Robert Fitz-
Gerald’s sesqui. prize poem was deliberately national,
and a climatic sensuous less that is wholly Australian
in its vitality and color can already be found in
Kenneth Mackenzie’s Our Earth or in the poems
of Maoriland’s Eve Langley, whose formative years
were spent in Australia.
D.S.
A Survey of Australia.
Australia’s Empty Spaces, by Sydney Upton
(Allen and Unwin), demands to be considered in two
parts; the loose and often contradictory social gener-
alities in the foreword and summing up, and the main
purpose to which the book is dedicated.
The author is a fellow of two learned societies
and a civil engineer with experience of the Sudan
and Malaya as well as of Australia. His book is
addressed to world readers, and is a physiographical
survey of Australia intended to disabuse the world
mind of extravagant notions as to Australia’s un-
limited possibilities for expansion.
He says that Australia is one-third sterile desert,
one-third poor to good light grazing country, and
one-third reasonably good agricultural land inter-
spersed with belts of mountainous waste-land and
tracts of exceedingly fertile soil. The agricultural
land—with secondary industries to provide home
markets —would support many times more people
than it does at present. He sees Asiatic eyes turned
enviously in this direction, but not, unless the yellow
men are vastly mistaken in their estimate of them-
selves, towards the tropic north. He declares that
these peoples cannot adapt themselves to tropical
climates as well as can whites, and says that the
Japanese and Chinese population of the Northern
Territory has diminished with the years. Local de-
fences might be necessary in the north, but they will
rest for their strength on development in the south.
Australia’s Empty Spaces is a fairly thorough
job. It contains no imaginative writing ; its style
is not popular but it has its own line of interest.
Upton glances into Australia’s geological past, with
a view to ascertaining future trends, before begin-
ning his inspection of the land to-day. There was
a period when sea-water rolled in narrow straits
across the huge western plain from Lake Amadeus
to Wyndham and the Ninety Mile Beach by Wollal.
Eastern Australia was then almost obliterated. There
were lava flows from the Kimberley area to Adelaide.
This was just before the pre-Cambrian ice age,
when the Flinders and Gawler Ranges and the whole
of the Broken Hill area were snow fields. “In those
days there was little of Queensland, eastern New South
Wales or Victoria in existence. The eastern shore of
the continent ran west from Melbourne up to Cobar,
across to the neighborhood of Alice Springs, and
back to Cape York Peninsula.” Later, from Mel-
bourne to North Queensland, “there were volcanoes
of Andean proportions,” though New England was
still deep under the sea. There was a time of great
vegetational growth, then the red desert of the in-
terior came and spread with the carboniferous age.
Desiccation is progressive in Upton’s opinion, and
has been greatly accelerated since occupation by the
white race; this being true not only of the interior,
but also of the best agricultural lands. The process
could be arrested and possibly even reversed by re-
afforestation in the farming belt and the systematic
resting of light grazing lands, whose indigenous vege-
tation is easily destroyed by overstocking combined
with drought. He stresses the importance of main-
taining the seed reserves in the soil, both with regard
to grasses and top feed —if they are eaten out how
shall they be replaced?—and also of measures to
maintain the dew-fall. He sees Australians still faced
with large and urgent problems in how to adapt
themselves to their country.
His interest is chiefly in the interior and the
empty north, and with respect to the first he permits
his imagination to range a little. He notes how east-
and west-bound cloud layers, after passing the coastal
areas, rarely meet with conditions that cause a down-
pour, except where the Flinders and Musgrave Ranges
rise into the higher air. He speaks of “deserts under
rain shadows,” and then phrases such as “until men
can bring water from the clouds” and “unless science
can devise means to cause precipitation” are re-
current. Evidently he doesn’t think such a cheerful
prospect quite beyond the bounds of possibility.
He finds the tropic north from Arnhem Land
to the Kimberleys deceptive in appearance and not
nearly as suitable for intensive settlement as Aus-
tralians have been wont to believe. A picturesque
sweep of head-high grass doesn’t necessarily mean
good farming land or even good grazing country. The
feed may have low nutrient value; the dry season
may be too long for effective agriculture , heavy rain-
fall confined to a few months will run largely to
waste ; commercial trees and plants that thrive well
under garden conditions in such an area do not neces-
sarily pay under field conditions. He instances what
he regards as similar savannah lands in densely-
populated places such as .Sumatra and Java that have
resisted attempts to put them to profitable use.
Notwithstanding much evidence to the contrary
he stands pat on his belief that the Northern Territory
has a climate distressing and harmful to humanity.
He tells the world that Australia’s tropic north isn’t


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’—AIways.
115 YEARS OF STEADY PROGRESS.
“THE SENIOR STORE.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
HALF YEARLY GENUINE
FOR EVERY TEST
WttteffiH
m
L/STEN TO A
UNI RADIO
The “Uni” 5-valve Dual-wave
A.C. Radio Receiver has
everything you need for com-
plete radio satisfaction . . .
and it will bring you many
interesting and thrilling pro-
grammes. Capable of Over-
seas reception, the “Uni” is
enclosed in a beautifully
veneered cabinet. Installed
free in Metropolitan area.
Guaranteed and serviced for
12 months within 20 miles of
the G.P.O.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular
Price £lB/18/-
Sale Price £l4/14/-
Easy Terms: Deposit 30/-,
12 monthly payments of
23/1.
ffi
Y&wi -V'.i'v
■:;k -
Bk2«\
sss
WSm
5-VALVE DUAL WAVE £1 0/lf Q <
USUALLY PRICED AT otlO/10/
SALE PRICE 14 CNS.
POWERFUL BATTERY- OPERATED SET
This 5-valve Dual-wave Battery-operated Receiver has been specially
designed for country listeners. A powerful set, economical to operate
because it includes the latest low-consumption valves. Full size tone-
sensitive Dynamic Speaker, too! Two-volt heavy-duty “A” Battery
and three Superdyne “B” Batteries —no “C” Battery is required.
Outdoor aerial equipment is supplied (less poles).
Sale Price
Easy Terms: £5 deposit, 12 monthly payments of 28/-.
£2l
FOR THE BEST ELEGTRIGAL APPLIANCES .
df
n
'•
.......
m ■ ■
mm
&
12/6 "UNI" ELECTRIC IRON
B. —The, “Uni” Electric Iron is built for long
service. Heavily nickelplated and fitted with
:onvenient thumb and heel rests . . . domestic
weight. Passed by the Approvals Board and
guaranteed for 12 months. Fittings 2/-
extra. Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price, 12/6.
Sale Price 8/11
Bil
22/6 "UNI" ELECTRIC JUGS
A.—The “Uni” Electric Jug has a capa-
city. of 3 pints and boils in approx. 4
minutes. Passed by the Approvals
Board and guaranteed for 12 months
. . . will give you years of faithful
service.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price, 22/6.
Sale Price 17/6
/
28/6 MODERN "UNI" RADIATOR
C.—Modern “Uni” Electric Radiator, with 1000-watt
Rod-type Element, mounted on heavily nickelplated
reflector ... sturdily built frame with oxy-copper
finish, complete with flex and plug. Guaranteed for
12 months and passed by Approvals Board.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price 28/6
Sale Price 22/G
QQ'6
15/6 ELECTRIC CONE RADIATOR
D.—A Pedestal-type Electric Radiator that you can
carry about from room to room. Strong frame,
copper reflector and 1000-watt element. Passed by
the Approvals Board and guaranteed for 12 months.
Complete with flex and plug.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price 15/6
Sale Price 12/9
IQg
Radio and Electrical —New Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only


Early New Zealand hy the Author of "Pageant”
by G.B.LANCASTER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY
A. STUART PETERSON.
I.
0|OR Tiffany the passing days were brimming
"like magic cups for ever full of wonder.
There was a sweet troubling beauty in the
world, a mysterious consciousness of
glories yet unwon. Because there was really
so little of Dick Sackville to remember ex-
cept laughing eyes and kisses, Tiffany clothed
him in all the rich robes of her fancy, as unlearned
girls have clothed their puppets ever since the world
began. All wit, all wisdom spoke by others might
so easily have been begotten by Dick, thought Tif-
fany, eagerly building her gilded pagoda higher, hang-
ing it about with merry little bells.
“Colonising,” said Jermyn, sitting in the chintz
parlor with new-brought tales from the war, “seems
to give the generation born to it such a different
quality. The young Volunteers have a different
quality from any Englishman ; flouting tradition, look-
ing forward instead of back.”
Dick could have said that, thought Tiffany,
smiling over the blue shirt she was stitching. Bubbling
with some private well of happiness. How does she
do it in these unhappy days, wondered Jermyn, ask-
ing :
“Do you flout tradition, my nut-brown maid?”
“How can I? All my traditions are in the future,”
said Tiffany, feeling how gloriously she would build
them with Dick.
“There you are.” Jermyn turned for consolation
to Sally. “No reverence for the past, these young-
sters. I vow they understand their elders even less
than ordinary children can do.”
And their elders understand them less, thought
Sally, wistfully. And then Caroline (who always
thought she understood everything) bustled in, filling
the room with the odor of patchouli, with a sense of
purple feathers and red cheeks. So difficult to re-
member that there was only one of Caroline pervad-
ing the air so, pulling Linda’s rare and ill-spelt letters
from a great purple reticule, reading them aloud.
Linda, who had three times made Caroline a
grandmother, sounded very content. “I’m nearly
the only lady on the Canterbury Plains, and young
station-owners bring me chocklits from Christchurch
to make Andy jellus, but he only laughs and eats
them,” wrote Linda. “Our Maori shearers are quite
difrunt from your horrid fighting ones and bring
their fat wives for picking-up, and baby Prudence
has cut a tooth”
“Like another world, it sounds so peaceful,” said
Sally, sighing. Linda, said Caroline resentfully, was
getting more than her share, and it was high time she
invited some of her sisters down to the chocolates
and young station-owners —only there was no means
of transporting them.
“But I still try to believe in Providence,” Caro-
line said, composing with the aid of a wall-mirror the
proper expression for a lady who trusted in Provi-
dence under such provocation. “When will the war
be over, Jermyn?”
THE war, said Jermyn, would never be over, since
the general sent from Australia to take supreme
command spent all his energies sapping up to pas
which were empty when he reached them, and had
now refused to take his men into the bush where they
so continually got lost. “Stalemate,” said Jermyn,
shrugging.
“Tamihana,” cried Tiffany, always ready to say
a good word for the Maoris, “is doing his utmost to
keep the Waikato out of the war. He is the greatest
help England has. Why does Parliament say such
dreadful things about his king-movement?”
“Why does it persist in sitting all the time, which
is the most dangerous thing it could do,” returned
Jermyn, who had just offended Peregrine by writing
in the “Chronicle”: “The amount of ability in our
Parliament is truly remarkable, and the way it is
used more remarkable still.”
“You should let us youngsters talk to them, we
understand the Maori,” said Tiffany saucily. And it
might come to that before they were through, thought
Jermyn, going discomfortably away.
Yet, with the help of Bishop Selwyn and Judge
Martin, Tamihana did contrive to arrange a truce
in spite of Parliament; so, after a year of war, the
Maoris went off to dry fish and fill the storehouses
in preparation for another one, and the country sat
back to lick its wounds and consider an amount of
destruction which would put settlement back several
decades.
“All the young bucks will be home to marry you
now, Tiffy,” said Jermyn, going up to Lovel Hall,
where joy had everyone by the hair, and Tiffany
was running about, her very crinoline riotous with
excitement, and Sally airing the best linen sheets for
the boys whom she would really see again.
“No, no,” cried Tiffany, going scarlet to the ears.
Then she laughed, her fluttering hands making bene-
dictions. “Herewith I solemnly bestow them upon
Sophia and Maria,” she said, running away.
Tucking up the yards and yards of her sprigged
cambric, Tiffany slid down into the fern-gully, where
the Maori god was long overgrown with weeds, and
the fern-trees stood so high that sunlight fell but
rarely on the brown creek and the maidenhair. But
flax and fern still kept their austere sweetness. The
kind of scent angels might use, thought Tiffany, rais-
ing her hands to pray for Dick to all the listening gods.
So soon now Dick would be back to take away
for ever the little persisting feeling that she had done
wrong. With anyone else it would have been wrong,
but not with him, thought Tiffany.
✓ OD, it seemed, proposed, for there was chance of
W a permanent peace now; but Governor Gore
Browne, his fat neck redder than ever, disposed. Pos-
sibly he felt that now the Prince Consort was dead
it was improper for the Queen to have an unattached
king within her boundaries. Possibly he felt just
exactly what he said: “The Queen’s authority must
be upheld at any price.” So he stoutly went to work
issuing proclamations against Tamihana and his king ;
demanding unconditional submission and the payment
of land and moneys, and would undoubtedly have
added (if he had thought of it) the sending of a dozen
shirted chiefs with halters round their necks, like the
citizens of Calais.
Parliament, staggering under the effects of one
war which had crippled the infant colony for a genera-
tion, shrieked aloud to any who would hear, and
Peregrine endeavored to cling to his dignity among
members who were losing theirs all the time and
talking about stringing Gore Browne to lamp-posts
. . . only there were none.
England began a tentative shuffle with regiments.
Some, it seemed, would still be necessary, but those
of long service would be exchanged. Tiffany’s heart
felt so terribly unstable. To go anywhere with Dick
would be heaven ; but to leave her own New Zealand,
to leave mamma and darling Roddy—“ The soul
would have no rainbows had the eyes no tears,” she
thought; smiling because she had written that once
to Dick, smiling about the house and presently en-
countering a portentous papa, looking as though he
WHAT WENT BEFORE . . .
To New Zealand in 1839 come Lovels —
Peregrine, tall, lean, efficient; Sir John, his
elder brother; bluff, bragging old soldier Uncle
Henry ; Jermyn, the untried boy; John’s
Lady Caroline; Peregrine’s young wife
Sally ; her younger sister Darien —all of
them impoverished in England, but ready,
under Peregrine, to found anew aristocracy in
anew land.
They settle at Kororareka Beach, neigh-
bors to Corny Fleete and his half-caste
brood, to Nick Flower the trader, “own
brother to Peregrine on the wrong side of the
blanket,” to all the conglomerate riff-raff of
the Beach. Peregrine builds a shipyard;
builds, too, a family.
In 1840 New Zealand is annexed to the
Empire and anew capital founded at Auck-
land, Peregrine goes there with Lovels when
the Maoris raid the Beach, and sets up the
shipyard again, sending John out to establish
a farm.
Darien marries a young officer, Lord
Calthorpe, and Jermyn, writing now for the
‘Chronicle,” tries to persuade Sally from her
“virtuous promenade” with Peregrine.
Nick Flower, continuing to prosper, and
owning now (so rumor said) half Auckland,
beats Peregrine for a seat on the newly-arrived
provincial council. The first Parliament — Pere-
grine has a seat —opens in 1854 and closes
again without having done anything. Peregrine
has worries, too, with his children —with the
eldest, dreaming Roddy, whom he sends to
John’s farm; with the nut-brown maid Tif-
fany, “so ardent for life.”
Roddy leaves home after a quarrel with
his father; Peregrine believing him dead.
Darien, widowed when her husband is killed,
takes Roddy’s place on John’s farm, and with
Nick Flower helps Tiffany to marry secretly a
young officer, Dick Sackville.
had a hand-grenade up his black coat-sleeve. Papa
requested Tiffany to come into the study, where she
was glad to sit in one of the great leather chairs,
since her legs seemed suddenly weak. Dick? But
papa didn’t know about Dick . . .
PEREGRINE looked with approval on this slim
bright thing sitting so quietly with her widespread
skirts of flowered muslin, her pretty hands obedient
in her lap, her pretty russet ringlets rolled away into
the newfangled net which gave such charming sleek-
ness to a young woman’s head and neck.
“My dear,” he said, “you look very well. I fancy
Hew” So it was Hew, whom Tiffany had quite
forgottdn. It was so much Hew that he was coming
to see her this evening to add her consent to that
already given by papa. Hew, it seemed, was an excel-
lent young man with a first-class knowledge of farm-
ing and other like attributes to endear him to any
girl. The war, unfortunately, had interfered with
plans during the past year, but there was no reason
for further delay. A speedy marriage and then Can-
terbury where, it appeared, Hew was much needed.
“He was somewhat diffident, as is becoming in a
suitor, but I assured him that you could have no
reason for objection.”
“I do object,” said Tiffany, as well as she could
for the throbbing in her throat. Peregrine was pre-
pared for this. Indeed, any other answer would have
been immodest.
“That is quite natural, my dear. It will pass.”
“It won’t,” said Tiffany, coming out louder than
she expected.
Peregrine stiffened. Good Heavens, was a man
of many troubles always to have contention in his
own household?
“May I ask your reasons?”
“I —I don’t love him.”
“Tut! A girl’s answer. A child’s answer. Love
will come.”
Tiffany was losing her temper in her fear.
“It has come. But not for Hew.”
“By Heavens! You dare to tell me that you
have loved without my permission.” His daughter’s
eyes began to twinkle with laughter, and he hastily
controlled himself. “All young ladies are always
in love with some young gentleman and such senti-
mentality becomes them. Marriage, my dear, is based
upon sounder qualities, and Hew”
“I agree that one would not become sentimental
over Hew,” said Tiffany, standing up. “And I think
it’s very likely that he is a good farmer since he has
so little else to recommend him. When I said I loved
someone else I meant it, papa, and he will soon come
back to tell you about it.”
“You dare” But daring had never got him
anywhere with Tiffany. “I desire to know his name,”
said Peregrine, trying to keep his head.
“He will tell you when he comes.”
“Do you defy me, Tiffany?” (This, thought
Peregrine uneasily, had a familiar sound. Roddy,
Tiffany; so often, so incredibly had they defied him,
and he couldn’t put either over his knee now.)
“Yes, papa,” said Tiffany sweetly.
“Then go to your room.” This also was familiar.
But she always had to come out of it sometime.
What man would have children, thought Peregrine,
pacing up and down, wondering what he should say
to Hew. All his life he had tried to do everything
for the best, but, it seemed, nobody ever supported
him.
11.
GORE BROWNE assuredly did not. In the face
of all opposition he was steadily preparing for
his Waikato war, asserting that he intended to
make a clean sweep of all kings, chiefs and other
Maori trouble-makers. But they, cried desperate
gentlemen in Parliament and at the Institute, were
nothing to the trouble-making of Gore Browne.
“Why don’t your wretched Parliament stop him?
Damme, what d’ you think we have you for?” de-
manded Major Henry, turning apostate at last to
Lovels. So Peregrine reminded him that Parliament
had made all possible representations to England for
the abolishment of Gore Browne before he got every-
one else abolished by Maoris, and that they were liv-
ing in daily hopes of another Governor.
“He’ll only be worse. They always are,” said
Major Henry.
Difficult days for Peregrine, trying to walk the
tightrope of expediency and fearing the collapse of
everything, including Lovels. Difficult days for Tif-
fany, secluded in her room and writing long letters
to Dick, who never sent any answers.
“I am taking counsel of the Buddhists, who
believe in transmigration,” she wrote. “What shall
you and I come back as, my swashbuckler? I think
1 would rather be myself again so long as you were


you. What better could I want? I sew sheets for
mamma and pretend that they are my trousseau, and
so I am very happy”
1 fear that is a lie, she thought, slipping on her
ring for comfort. Two lines, even one, from Dick
would help so much.
REGIMENTS drifted and sifted, but Dick Sack-
ville’s, it appeared, was not one of them. With the
country preparing once more to topple over the edge
of ruin, ladies gallantly became gayer than ever,
speeding the parting and coming guests with no end
of balls, routs and croquet-parties . . . the last being
specially designed by Providence for the purpose of
flirtations.
Roddy returned, assuring an anxious Peregrine
that Brian would be sure to turn up sometime, and
tackling Hew with indignation. “She don’t want you.
man. Be decent and marry another girl. Swarms
of ’em about,” said Roddy. But what with the
hope of Tiffany and Canterbury, Hew couldn’t be
decent ; so Roddy talked to Peregrine as man to man
(which was sufficiently impertinent and disconcerting)
asking how Hew could be expected to press his suit
with Tiffany if he never saw her.
“That floored our anxious parent, my love,” said
Roddy, who certainly had learned a thing or two at
the goldfields. “You are to come out now, and if
you’re wise you’ll string Hew a bit till Sackville comes
back to settle him.”
Tiffany sat on the bed, looking pale and serious.
Stringing unwanted lovers was, Roddy feared, not
her line. Too honest for this world.
“I think war may go on for ever,” said Tiffany.
Lord, this love! So destructive to a sense of
humor while it lasted, he thought. How tragic he
had found life until he ceased to love Eriti —if he
ever had loved her. Perhaps it was the ghost of some
long-dead Bible maid he had loved, thought Roddy,
going off to flirt with Emily (who was quite hand-
some in the rustic daisy manner) so that she pres-
ently fell head over heels and was so constantly
drowned in sentimental dew of her own making that
Sophia couldn’t abide her.
“I hope I’d have more pride to cry for him.
He flirts with everyone,” said Sophia, busy on a book-
mark calculated to make Roddy consider another flir-
tation. Caroline did all she could. Since Roddy liked
music, she almost nightly brought Emily to Lovel
Hall, setting her down to “The Harmonious Black-
Smith,” with variations which, in Emily’s hands, were
so much more varied than they were ever meant to
be, while gentlemen lay in long chairs on the verandah
with their meerschaums and cheroots and glasses of
grog trying to bear it. Rod Lovel’s music and songs,
when no women were by, were of a somewhat dif-
ferent quality from any evoked by unwaked girls.
Now Caroline was crying to Roddy coming with
his flute: “Emily will play your accompaniments.
Emily, my love!”
Emily, thought Roddy, was very well for kisses,
being so plump and soft and warm. But not among
his music, he felt, proceeding to make it so divinely
that Tiffany went off under the orange-trees, unable
to endure it in the light, and Roddy watched. Hew
going off after her. Heaven send she had sense enough
to handle him, though one doubted it. Tiffy seemed
to imagine there was only one man in the world.
Hew, dark, stocky and so lamentably in earnest, would
come later with his miseries.
“I’ve loved her so long. I swear I’ll never give
up until she’s married to someone else”
“Why give up then? She’s more likely to want
a change.”
“You make a jest of everything, confound you,”
cried Hew in a temper. “I believe she just don’t
know her own mind. If Mr. Lovel would put up the
banns she’d come round all right. Girls never know
what they want.”
HEW (thought Roddy, rather concerned) wasn’t
behaving like a gentleman ; and since Tiffy could
show no basis for her asserted affection in the way
of an attendant cavalier or even a letter to be inter-
cepted by papa, there really might be danger. So he
rode out to ask Darien, who was rather curt about it.
Thanks to Nick Flower making such an idiot of him-
tself, she had had to buy Lincoln ewes elsewhere ; so
she had got nothing out of the trip, and it was simply
imbecile of Tiffy to let herself be pestered.
“Tell her to announce her marriage and wear her
ring,” said Darien, dragging that dreadful old black
hat over her curls and rolling her skirts up on red
flannel petticoats. “I can’t stay, Rod. I’m busy
lambing.”
What the devil was wrong with women that they
.always ran to death the thing that interested them at
the moment, wondered Roddy, riding home to find
that another woman was apparently running herself
„to death with himself as the interesting thing. It was
Emily, said Tiffany, her beautiful brown eyes so grave
with reproach to Roddy. She had given confi-
dences . . .
“She would,” said Roddy, shrugging. Poor
Tiffy, with her sense of humor gone so shockingly
astray, would never understand philanderings. “It’s
the kind of thing that should be said between gentle-
men, ain’t it, Tiffy? But since perhaps you consider
neither of us a gentleman can it be said as between
ladies?”
“She—she tells me you kiss her very often,
Roddy.”
“Quite right. I do.”
“But you have not asked for her hand?”
“Oh, my dearest girl!” He began to laugh, lying
in the fern-gully, dropping twigs into the stream.
There they went, all his kisses, bobbing round the
corner out of sight.
“I don’t understand,” cried Tiffany, going white.
“You wouldn’t kiss her unless you loved her, and
if”
Tiffy, felt Roddy, would be the death of him yet.
For the first time he felt sorry for Dick Sackville.
“I love so many, Tiffy. All the fair women
who ever lived and died for love. They seem to have
the monopoly of that, by the way. Men don’t do it.
I love all the phantoms going by in the night. And
since I can’t kiss them I have to make the best of . . .
Emily’s.”
“Then you are very cruel,” cried Tiffany, sitting
up.
“Yes. I didn’t mean to be. Or perhaps I did.
I do sometimes,” said Roddy candidly.
Tiffany was bewildered. Could every man be
cruel . . . except Dick?
“You see, Tiffy”—only he knew she couldn’t see
it, this poor dear Tiffy so besotted about Sackville.
who’d certainly teach her if he wasn’t better than
most men, thought Roddy, advancing Darien’s opinion
that she should declare her marriage. “It’s not really
fair, Tiffy. I know there are several hankering.”
“But I promised Dick”
“He didn’t foresee conditions. And since it was
only to pleasure him, don’t you think he’d be better
pleased if Hew stopped making love to you?”
“I never thought of that. Yes. He would. I’ll
do it, Roddy,” cried Tiffany, jumping up in her eager-
ness to please Dick.
“Lord, how you do rush your fences. Wait your
opportunity, my dear,” said Roddy, feeling very wise
and imagining Tiffy blurting it out to an irritated
papa hungry for his dinner. “You are so very young,”
said Roddy.
TALKING after dinner, he felt that papa also was
very young, expecting sons always to do as they
were bid. The Canterbury station, explained Pere-
grine, was a different proposition now, thanks to
Andrew Greer. A manager and a sprinkling of sheep.
Roddy could go down with Hew and Tiffany and
knock matters into shape. “Build a good house.
All the sheep-kings must have elegant houses.”
‘.‘l’m obliged, sir,” said Roddy, not sounding very
much so and hoping Tiffy wouldn’t break her news
at present. “Jerry would be better at that. And I’m
going to the Southland goldfields.”
“You are what, sir?” demanded Peregripe, his
bleak nose and eyes coming forward out of the
shadows.
“I just told you. That Southland country is
almost unknown. Pioneer work. Always something
new over the hill,” said Roddy.
“I have done all the pioneering necessary for
my family, Roddy.”
“Not mine,” said Roddy, lighting his pipe. “I
intend to do my own, sir.”
What hard-working father scheming for an un-
grateful family would not have been justified in losing
his temper? Great Heavens, how did he come to have
such children, wondered Peregrine, embarking on a
heated panegyric about the necessity of upholding the
glory of the Lovel name.
“Names ain’t going to count for much in this
country,” explained Roddy, as his sire paused for
breath. “I daresay they did very well along with a
number of old notions in England, but they’re not
going to work here. I learned that on the goldfields.
It’s a man’s self and not his name will always tip
the balance here.”
“You cursed iconoclast! You will one day be
Sir Roderick Lovel.
“I shan’t ever tell anybody, sir,” promised Roddy
genially.
IT was perhaps Tiffany’s luck that she should bring
her news and Sally out to the verandah just now ;
Sally like a little quaking ghost who had just been
frightened by a mortal; Tiffany excited and very
proud. Roddy tried to stop her, but she had her ring
on, and that seemed to be spurring her to destruction.
Now we’re in for it, thought Roddy, watching
poor dear Tiffy flinging her thunderbolt and then
standing gamely prepared to receive cavalry.
Peregrine met the thunderbolt like Jove, flinging
it back with a bitter: “His name, Madam? His name
and at once.”
That, said Tiffany, her husband would tell him
when he came. “I ask your pardon for being dis-
obedient, papa, but it was you who made me so.”
“I? I? Have a care what you say, Miss.”
Even his whiskers are bristling, thought Sally,
despairing. Tiffany said:
“By trying to make me marry Hew when I loved
someone else. Your children are human even if you
are not, and I wanted to make my own life.”
“Did you indeed? A minor . . . defying her
father. I insist on knowing the name of the scoundrel
who tricked you into this. Who dared perform the
ceremony? Where did it take place? Show me your
marriage-lines at once.”
“Marriage-lines?” asked Tiffany bewildered.
“Good God! Don’t tell me you have none. This
is just a pack of lies cooked up to hide your shame,
is it? You have been wantoning with some loose bar-
racks fellow, and now you dare”
“Steady, sir, steady,” said Roddy, putting him-
self in front of Tiffany, since the old chap was look-
ing really dangerous.
“I suppose my husband has the lines. I will
write and ask him to-night, since you seem to be
anxious for them,” said Tiffany, What
was a bit of paper when she had her ring? “And I
think you forget that you are speaking to a lady.”
“Lady!” Peregine choked. “You —you impu-
dent strumpet!”
For the first and last time Sally forgot her duty
to Mr. Lovel.
“Please remember that you are in the presence
of two married ladies who are not accustomed to such
language,” she said, putting her arm round Tiffany.
If a mouse had roared at him Peregrine could
not have been more dumbfounded. He collapsed in
a chair, staring feebly at these females . . . these
vipers whom he had nourished in his bosom.
“I have spent my life for you,” he said, almost
in a whisper. “Slaved and planned . . . given you
everything”——
“Except our souls. You never let us have them,”
said Tiffany. “Ask Roddy.”
As a man Roddy felt it time to come to his
parent’s help.
“It will be all right, sir. Aunt Darien and Mr.
Flower were at the wedding.”
No sponsoring could have dismayed Peregrine
more, if he had been capable of further dismay. He
waved Roddy off, saying merely:
“Produce your marriage-lines and send the fellow
to me the moment he arrives. Until then I beg you
will have the decency to conceal your disgrace.”
“I think Hew should know, sir, since he seems to
expect”
“Oh, tell him. Tell the world. Shout it from
the housetops. You are all in league against me,”
cried Peregrine, rushing off to his study and slamming
the door, while Sally dissolved into sobs in Roddy’s
arms.
“Oh —oh, how wicked I have been. To defy
papa”
“You were in good company,” said Roddy, sit-
ting down and pulling her on to his knee.
“What a magnificent nursery-governess was lost
in papa,” said Tiffany, looking almost her own gay
self again. Tiffy, thought Roddy approvingly, was
always a fighter.
Sally moaned. Could these really be her children?
“Oh, my duty!” she sobbed.
Duty was the one word that had never failed, but
it failed now. Nothing to take hold of now, thought
Sally, with Roddy rubbing his warm, hard cheek
against her soft, faded one, telling her that since we
certainly didn’t always obey God it would be sacri-
lege to obey papa, as that would be putting him above
God.
“Oh, Roddy, you do confuse me. You make
everything sound so different. I don’t think you
can be right, dear, can you?” Her ingratitude, her
wicked ingratitude to Mr. Lovel, who had been plan-
ning and slaving for her all the time, even though
one would never have suspected it. “Oh, let us all go
and beg dear papa’s pardon,” she cried piteously.
With laughter they refused, shaking young bright
heads, ready, eager for their own lonely adventurings.
So Sally went, knocking softly on the door, creeping
in with her face all smudged with tears. “Oh, Mr.
Lovel, can you ever forgive me?” whispered Sally,
stretching out her pleading hands.
Amazed, Peregrine felt in himself a sensation
that he dimly perceived to be gratitude. He was not
wholly deserted. There was still one who knew her
place . . . and his. He rose.
“A gentleman must make allowance for woman’s
weakness. I am willing to believe that a moment’s
agitation carried you away. 1 have been too lenient
with my children and now I must suffer for it. We —
we must meet this lamentable occasion as best we can,
my dear,” said Peregrine, bowing over Sally’s hand.
But Tiffany (he decided) should go to Darien. One
could not risk Sally getting out of her place again.
111.
CHE world, it seemed, was overfull of lamentable
occasions ; for while ploughs turned up the brown
earth and white gulls followed the furrow, while
kowhais shook their golden lace to the sweet winds
and ladies walked like somewhat faded flower-gardens
topped by absurd little fringed parasols in the Gov-
ernment House gardens, the country daily blundered
towards a fiercer war.
Gore Browne, frenziedly demanding reinforce-
ments, got Sir George Grey instead to take the reins
out of his hands ; and Grey, walking about Auckland
again in a double-breasted black waistcoat and large
blue bow-tie, was quite clearly prepared to be more
autocratic than ever.
“Which he never shall be,” shouted Sir Winston,
thumping his umbrella until clouds of dust flew
through the Institute. “He’ll have to reckon with re-
sponsible government now.”
“Well, don’t vote your responsible government
out of office too often,” said Jermyn, rather sorry for
Gore Browne, who was a most excellent and honest


gentleman, if a thought too one-idea’d for a country
wth so many ideas.
The centre of the island (felt gentlemen, going
gallantly to dinners and dances) was still a powder-
magazine, since the Waikato had replied to Gore
Browne’s demand for submission by refusing the
passage of pakeha boats on the rivers and by putting
a large army into the most startling uniforms ever
seen outside opera bouffe. So Grey had to do what
he could by temporising, which never suited him.
“Can’t the condemned fool realise what he’s doin’
in settin’ soldiers to drive a road into the Waikato?”
demanded Major Henry. “Expectin’ the Maoris to
believe his intentions peaceful, with that military en-
campment at Epsom growin’ all the time, and every
Maori knowin’ that Romans always began with roads
when they meant to conquer a country. Thinks him-
self a Roman emperor, does he?”
“Our respected Governor sees nothing black or
white, but only Grey,” said Jermyn.
SALLY sighed. Gore Browne had pervaded the
soup, and Parliament the fish. Now here came
Grey with the roast mutton, and gentlemen would
never let him go again. She was missing Tiffany and
Roddy ; and Brian, returned at last, was too elegant
to seem like a son, somehow . . . and so full of
opinions.
Brian was blaming the newspapers. For Parlia-
ment, trying to help Grey with his temporising, had
found newspapers calling it the peace-at-any-price
Ministry so often that it had resigned in a pet, and
the new one had suddenly become very high-handed
along with Grey.
“Newspapers are far too ready to kick any dog
that offers,” pronounced Brian, bending his black
brows on Jermyn.
“Linda writes that the South Island wishes to
secede,” remarked Caroline, very important with three
tiers of colored gauze instead of a cap. “It is Eldorado
now and don’t see why it should be taxed to pay for
our wars. Linda don’t neither,” ended Caroline, look-
ing round impressively on the company.
“By God, ma’am,” burst out Major Henry, “the
South Island’s a renegade, and so you can tell it with
my compliments. Why, the wretched place would
never have been discovered but for us.”
“Possibly it would have been better if we had
never discovered ourselves,” said Mr. Pinshon
gloomily. And no one contradicted him, which proved
the state of mind the country was in.
“Well,” said Caroline, “I consider that a lady
owes it to civilisation”
“Civilisation is just as big a fight as savagery
and not so different,” said Darien, who had ridden in
for the monthly cattle sales. “You should know
that, though nothing much seems to come of it,” she
added, looking round on Sophia and Emily and Maria.
She had been very pleased to have Tiffy instead of
that little minx Lucilla, though all her sisters (who
had such fingering minds) were most anxious to know
the reason for the change. This virtuous and conse-
quently suspicious family, she thought, feeling what
a tattle there would be when Sackville came back.
HE was so very long in coming that Tiffany, helping
Darien with the sheep, walking with John behind
the plough, began to be afraid to count the days. So
long ... so very long . . . then he came; tapping on
the door one bright afternoon when Tiffany was busy
in the kitchen and the others busy in the sheep yards,
and Tiffany, running to the door in her big apron, fell
back against it because her heart seemed suddenly to
have stopped.
“Can I see you alone?” he asked, not offering
to touch her. She could not speak or see for this
rush of abounding joy. Dick . . . Dick!
“I must speak to you alone,” he said more
sharply.
She led the way to her bedroom, shut the door,
and suddenly turned shy ; waiting for his words, his
arms, his kisses.
“I only got in yesterday. I have come at the first
opportunity,” he said, and even through her daze of
gladness she was conscious of sudden fear. “I —I
have discovered that our —the marriage was not legal.
I came to tell you at the first opportunity.”
She sat down suddenly on the bed, staring with
her big, brown eyes.
“Not legal,” she repeated dully.
“No. The priest was not fully licensed. He
could only help officiate. I took the trouble to hunt
him up afterwards, for I had my suspicions at the
time.”
“You had your suspicions?” she said.
“Yes.” Damn it, those eyes were making him
nervous. “You see, I happen to know French. He
was juggling with both services . . . didn’t dare give
the whole of either. I wonder Lady Calthorpe didn’t
spot it. But she was making eyes at Flower. I—l’m
monstrous sorry. Puts you in a hole.”
“You . . . didn’t tell me . . . then.”
“Oh, my dear girl! Spoil our pleasant little
party! I mean . . . Tiffy, don’t look like that. I
wasn’t certain. ’Pon my honor I wasn’t”...
“Dick” . . . This first stunned feeling was pass-
ing. “Dick, it isn’t you speaking like this, is it? Not
you ? Oh, my poor, poor boy, have you been fret-
ting over it all this time? I—l don’t really mind so
much, dear. Papa wouldn’t object now. He knows
I’m married.” She held out her hands, beginning
to smile. “Don’t feel that you’ve been so very wicked.”
He fidgeted, not looking at her. Why had he
been fool enough to come when he might have done
it by writing? But then she would have probably
gone rushing up to the barracks. Good Lord, if only
women knew how they do for themselves when they
chase a man!
“Can’t any woman keep a secret?” he said sulkily.
“You promised not to tell.”
“There were reasons,” said Tiffany, wondering
where her words came from. “I didn’t give your
name.”
“Eh? Well, that’s all right. We sail in a week,
you see.” Before her silence, her watching eyes he
stumbled on: a soldier’s life ... so uncertain . . .
couldn’t take her with him . . . might be India next
. . . all so uncertain.
“You couldn’t take me? You mean . . . this is
the end?”
“Well, my dear, if you’d look at it sensibly . . .
I’m a poor man”
“You mean . . . this ... is the end?”
“Well, yes, if you will have it,” he said shortly.
Confound his susceptible nature. Always getting him
into trouble with women, and the getting out so
damned difficult.
“Since there’s no harm done” he began
again, awkwardly.
Everything is dead, thought Tiffany. Yet some-
thing seemed to be burning in her, although she did
not know it for her pride. She stood up.
“Please go,” she said.
“ ’Pon my soul, I’m sorry, Tiffy. Such a mis-
take, your coming to Rotorua”
“Please go.”
Curse it, he thought, she had no right to come
the tragedy queen over him who knew well enough
that the chief fault was her own. If luck had not been
with him he would have been caught instead of her,
since he really had not been sure that night. If
England and India hadn’t been in the offing he might
be caught again, for she was a handsome creature
standing so still, with those great eyes. He made a
movement towards her ; thought better of it. Then,
“Good-bye, Miss Lovel,” he said and went out.
TIFFANY heard his feet echoing through the empty
house, the slam of the door, the galloping hooves.
How long she stood hearing them she did not know.
She did not know anything until a sudden chilling
shock told her that she was in the bath set there in
readiness for morning, scrubbing herself with a fury
that turned the white skin red. She dressed with
quick hands that seemed to have a purpose of them-
selves, that dragged from under the bed the little box
holding her sacred treasures, bundled them all to-
gether, wedding-gown and ring, the other clothes
that she had worn . . .
Darien crossing the yard saw her coming through
the back door with the white bundle, and called:
“Wasn’t that a horse I heard? Great Scott, Tiffy,
what’s happened?” she cried, rushing up.
“He came.” (Voice as well as hands and feet
seemed to be doing things of their own volition.)
“He says our marriage was not legal. He has gone.”
Then her feet took her running fast towards the
bush, with Darien breathless after her.
“Tiffy . . . Tiffy . . . you’re not going to kill your-
self?”
“For thatV'
The blaze of scorn leaping out of Tiffany almost
scorched Darien. She stood, bewildered and rubbing
her face, then set off again in the big boots after that
flying figure. What the devil it was all about she
couldn’t yet make out, but since Tiffy had gone mad
one must keep an eye on her.
By a little mossy stream in the bush Tiffany
knelt down, digging in the soft rich deposit of ages
with frantic hands. When the hole was deep enough
she flung the bundle in and covered it. Very quiet
the bush with the evening light sifting through it,
tenderly warm on the totara boles, gilded on the edges
of the great hinau flanges, faint and far and delicate
where little ferns hung everywhere from boles and
branches like a gentle rain.
IV.
CHERE is always some meat which a man’s
stomach rejects, and Governor Grey’s rejected the
Maori flag although digesting the Maori king
with a certain difficulty. So there were consultations,
bribes, and what not which the chiefs (watching over
Grey’s shoulder the arrival of more troopships, the
gradual penetration of the military road) rejected with
less than their usual courtesy. Neither side trusted
the other now, and the papers became so dangerous
that Jermyn, after several bouts of verbal fisticuffs
with the “Chronicle,” went to Sydney. There is such
a thing as going too far, said Jermyn, discovering it
about ten years too late.
Everybody was discovering it. But a section of
the papers, butchering to make a Roman holiday,
couldn’t be stopped, and at the Institute gentlemen
shook handfuls of the scurrilous stuff at each other,
wanting to know what Parliament was doing about
it. “I shall bring the matter up in the House,” said
Peregrine, seriously upset at this ribald disclosure of
Grey’s private quarrel with the general commanding
Her Majesty’s forces.
“Listen. Good God, sirs, just listen,” gobbled
Major Henry, who would still climb on chairs though
finding it so difficult. He read above the anxious
faces: “ ‘Our trusty general, being rough y
handled by England for absorbing so many
to no purpose, retorts that New Zealand has n g
to provide sufficient militia to assist him.
militia is Governor Grey’s prerogative, t
now well in the fire, with our two head men conduct
ing such a tidy little quarrel as toatens to deadlock
everything except the Maoris.’ Bloody fools cned
Major Henry, gone as plum-color as his satm waist ?
coat, “don’t they know the Maoris read every word
“I fear it has taken us too long to learn that,
said Mr. Hawke, who had a fine propertyout in the
Manakau direction. “But since our noffie memb
intends to ventilate this scandal in the House we
may hope for the suppression of these papers • • •
Peregrine tried, and so did others ; but Parlia-
ment was over-occupied by another matter. ri a
wars were raging with a severity which alarmed every-
body ; and London’s Colonial Office, having go us
into this bog through continual meddling, now wished
to shovel the whole control of native affairs on to us,
did it, while leaving Grey and General Cameron com-
plete masters of the army, so that any salutary methods
thought out by the House were rendered negative by
the inability to back them with force.
Not for us, said Parliament, driving the Colonial
Office quite demented, since these benighted Anti-
podeans, always demanding power, would not take
it when offered. What can be done with such imbeciles,
complained London’s distant Colonial Office, trying
to understand everything and understanding nothing
except this eternal cry for more troops.
English clubs and kettledrums discussed New
Zealand with something more than aversion, and
home-sick officers’ wives writing to their relatives
received scant sympathy. Ridiculous nonsense. They
are not trying to settle matters. Merely amusing
themselves . . . and we have to pay, said the relatives
back Home.
HOW we humans cling to our paltry little affairs
with the world galloping to chaos about us,
thought Jermyn, returning from Sydney to smoke a
pipe with Major Henry and hear all the scandal of
the town. But he sat up when the Major told about
Tiffany. Tiffany, it seemed, had been very ill out
at the farm, but she wouldn’t allow folk in town to
know. Then Darien, who couldn’t hold her tongue
and was asking everyone if they had seen Nick
Flower, had let out something, and now all Auckland
was saying that Tiffy had had an affair with some
officer since returned to England on exchange.
“Peregrine won’t have her home and I’d like to
choke Darien,” said Major Henry, spilling snuff all
over his increasing waistcoat with agitation.
Jermyn looked at the rows of old leather-covered
volumes on the shelves, and thought of Tiffany chas-
ing religions through them with face glowing and her
bright bronze hair getting in a tangle. “How does
Sally take it?” he asked. Sally, as usual, was
making a doormat of herself and getting no thanks,
and Jermyn had better go up and see for himself,
since the Major was heartily sick of the whole infernal
business.
Jermyn went. When she came running in a flutter
of sprigged blue muslin with the cap a little askew
on her dear brown head he took both her hands,
saying: “Lord Palmerston waited thirty years for his
wife, Sally. We have got through nearly twenty-five.”
“Oh,” cried Sally, trying to pull away because
this sudden rush of happiness couldn’t be real. “Won’t
Martha have you?”
“I don’t like the feel of her hands. Too puddy.
Yours are always cool. And firm. Such a lady’s
hands despite all they have to do. So I am writing
a book while I’m waiting, my dear.”
“Oh! Tell me about it.” Now she could get
into'the shadow, hide her glowing cheeks, her glowing
heart, which shouldn’t glow when poor Tiffy was so
sad, then turning grave again when Jermyn spoke of
Tiffany.
“I have read,” said Jermyn, “that of all the
wrongs men inflict on women that of not marrying
them is the one they should find it easiest to forgive.
I should judge Tiffany was well rid of the fellow,
dear.” '
“Oh, yes. We are still trying to find Nick Flower.
Darien says he will know. She is so monstrous angry
with him,” said Sally, puzzled. “But I can’t think
he meant to be anything but kind, can you?”
Jermyn, being experienced, could think anything
of anybody. But how was Tiffany taking it?
Tiffany, it appeared, had declared that she had
only got what she deserved and forbidden further
mention of the matter. She was quite well again and
working very hard at the farm.
“I think perhaps all she learned from the Major’s
Buddist philosophers is helping her,” said hopeful
Sally, who would never be a philosopher and was just
now rather frightened of this diligent reserved Tiffany.
Jermyn thought it sounded as though the nut-
brown maid was getting bitter. These top-heavy
tragedies of youth . . . and Peregrine setting up to be
Lord Almighty and dividing the sheep and goats and
putting poor Tiffy among the goats. He said he would
not stay to meet Peregrine, who must be fully occu-
pied with the state of his country ... to say nothing
of his daughter, and went away thinking of that little
brown curl on Sally’s white neck. Princes and prin-
cipalities may rush to ruin, but there is always com-
fort so long as the sun shines and a woman is fair.
NEW ZEALAND undoubtedly was rushing to
ruin.
After walking round each other with tails up,
like dogs preparing to fight, the two races could hold
off no longer. Confusions had piled up. A per-
spiring trooper galloped in with word that all the
Waikato was going to march on Auckland, and that
winter’s night of July, 1863, saw the most agitated


of all the agitated debates its Parliament had known.
Consultations continued till daybreak, and next day
the papers came out with it.
“Cameron will march at once into the Waikato.
It has been decided to take the offensive. Again we are
at war.”
By tremendous effort Tamihana had held the
truculent Rewi back from Auckland, but now it was
of no use. “Now,” wrote Tamihana to his pakeha
friends, “the Maoris are really angry. This time they
will give no quarter. I am very sorry.”
Caught in a cleft stick, he stood aloof from the
first fierce battle, in which the Maoris were slaughtered
and driven back. “May God help us all!” said
Tamihana, going out to throw all the weight of the
kingship on the side of the men of his own blood.
“Alas, alas,” said the Maori women, “the land is
swept with war’s red tide” . . .
I.
0|OR Peregrine (his very bones growing sore
under these repeated shocks) peacocks on
his green lawns, oaks and sycamores spread-
ing their branches about the mellowing
beauty of his house had no more comfort.
A shadow lay on that house, cast by his own
daughter, by Nick Flower, whose very name
brought a rush of blood to the head, by Darien.
Darien, most graceless of all ungrateful women, had
so constantly stayed John’s hand that the pick of his
flocks and herds had never gone to Canterbury with
Jerry . . . and now Jerry was marching out with Brian
and there was naught of good upon the earth.
“His Omnipotence appears somewhat deflated,”
said Jermyn, coming back for the war to find Major
Henry saving his soul with his old thumbed copies of
Swift and Voltaire, while his religions stood dusty on
the shelves, missing Tiffany. The wolfhounds were
long gone since the Major could no more exercise
them. And his moustachios were going, too. Stout
old cock, always making the best of it, thought Jermyn
“Missed you infernally, boy. Always do. Pere-
grine was never any company. Goin’ to lead the
papers again, eh?” said the Major, who never ceased
hoping that some day Jermyn would astonish the
world.
The Major could only talk of the regiments
swarming in. New faces, yet the same old glorious
regiments ; the Die-Hards, the Royal Irish, the Black
Cuffs, and many more, said Major Henry, savoring
them on his tongue. Field artillery, too, and cavalry.
A naval squadron. England, it appeared, was going
to make short work of all this nonsense now . . .
“Yet how she do seem to hate doin’ it, boy. I dunno
why.”
“She says she’ll soon have all the colonies de-
manding troops for every storm in a teacup. I don’t
blame her. She can’t understand the position,” said
Jermyn, wondering if anybody in the world ever
would, and presently going up and down Auckland
to hear what folk were saying.
TIFFANY tried to stay herself on the philosophies
in Major Henry’s books. But neither philosophers
nor saints seemed to have experienced just what
Tiffany had . . . and being men how could they?
There should be a philosophy written for women, who
needed it so much; who were taught so little
and yet expected to keep their house in better order
than men ever did. A ramshackle old world, thought
Tiffany, trying valiantly to laugh at it, at herself who
had builded so fine a man out of nothing.
Sturdy Sir John could not help ; he was busy
with setting Maoris to plough the brown furrows and
murder Tane’s trees, he giving himself to his Here-
fords, his Clydesdales, which Tiffany helped him
gentle to the rein. “Lord, I wish I didn’t have to sell
this chap,” said John, grooming the shining barrel of
some upstanding monster with legs as hairy as Esau’s
hands. But he would sell them all so that Caroline and
the girls might be decked, and he’d never wonder
why. A good beast of burden was Sir John.
No help for Tiffany now from a Darien who had
taken many-chinned merino rams for her gods and
worshipped them exultantly. No passionate seekings
for the divine in Darien, down on her knees before
the wide fireplace, giving lambs suck from a bottle with
a rag. “Monstrous lucky my baby did die in Tas-
mania,” said Darien. “She couldn’t have had the
title, and just think how she would have been in the
way now.”
This was so exactly Darien that Tiffany could not
but laugh, holding another wriggling little body to
another bottle. But the laugh had an edge to it that
brought Darien’s eyes sharply on the intent face in
the firelight. She’ll never be so handsome again. The
next man will have to love her for the other things,
she thought, saying: “You’re well out of all that
business, you know, Tiffy ; but I’ll probably scratch
Flower’s eyes out when I see him.”
“I deserved it,” said Tiffany curtly.
“Well, I think you did. But I didn’t. I nearly
married him that night, Tiffy.”
“Married Nick Flower!”
Darien winced. That proud Lovel blood of
Tiffy’s. She said hastily:
“Why not? He’s a Lovel, too . . . partly.”
So Tiffany heard that story, and felt a queer
understanding of Nick Flower who had been so hurt,
too. But he had hit back, as a man can. And in hit-
ting papa, as he would so naturally wish to, it
wouldn’t concern Flower that he had hit women also.
Women matter so little, thought Tiffany, going out to
this tremendous bush. Perhaps I’m really a pagan,
she thought, getting so much comfort from the bush.
JERMYN and Sally rode out one day to bring the
news ; Sally in a blue habit and wide hat with
blue feather, looking almost as gay as Jermyn, whose
new checked riding-suit made such an elegant maca-
roni of him. They both look so young, thought Tif-
fany, making tea while Darien clattered cups and
saucers on to the table. Jermyn wrinkled his eyes at
Tiffany. Tragic creatures, women. So seldom may
they get comfortably drunk and ease their stuffed
bosoms. It would do the nut-brown maid no end of
good to go on a real jag.
But since even he could not advise that, he
talked of promenades on Wynyard Pier, in the
Gardens ; of Caroline outdoing herself with musicales ;
of Sophia running out of tracts and hymn-books and
coming to Major Henry.
“ ‘I saw such a nice lieutenant who looked as if
a prayer-book might help him if you have a spare
one,’ said Sophia. So old Henry said the fellow prob-
ably read French and gave her a Rabelais in the
original. Sophia took it in all good faith, and her
stock has certainly gone up at the barracks now.”
“Poor Sophy,” said Tiffany, somewhat indignant
at silly Sophy being made the sport of men. But it
was her own fault, as it had been Tiffany’s fault. Oh,
why don’t someone explain to us what life is, she
thought.
John came in to read the last letter from Linda.
Governor Grey had generously found time to present
Canterbury with several pairs of silver-grey rabbits,
which would,.if allowed to breed, make good shooting.
So there had been a public holiday with flags and
fireworks in Christchurch, with all the big sheep-
owners riding in, and so many calling at Durdans on
the way home that Linda had to make up six beds
on the floor.
“If only I had some Canterbury land for the
animals, dang it,” said John.
“They would be safer,” said Jermyn. That was
true enough, with the Waikato so near that a fleet
of war-canoes might cross the portages and attack
Auckland any night now, and Grey demanding of all
Auckland Maoris that they should take the oath of
allegiance or leave the town. So they had left in a
body and, having been so long town-fed and town-
degraded, had gone to stealing from the near-by
settlers, killing beasts, burning cottages . . . Sally
feared John’s farm was not safe. But neither was
Auckland nor any place else. So she rode away with
Jermyn, happy that dear Tiffy looked better, that
Jermyn was apparently beginning to believe in eternity
at last and seldom hurt her now.
New Zealand was receiving all the hurt that man
could give ; and all the long patient labor of twenty
years going up in smoke, all the crops trampled where
men fought and ravished. It was a racial war now,
with the Maoris intent on sweeping their dear land
clear of the pakeha, and the English wanting to be
done with the horrid business and go home.
11.
?ROM the southern snow-ranges Roddy wrote to
Sally: “Tell my father I have found anew range
and called it Lovel, and there are snowgrass
valleys that will feed great herds of cattle some day.”
To Tiffany he wrote out some of that restless
heart which echoed in her own.
“What is the meaning of colonisation? I think
it gives those born in it an outlook that the older
generation can never understand. Dunedin nearly got
me, for it’s roaring wild with miners and their women.
... So here I am alone in my little tent with the great
mountain-parrots shrieking as they always do at night,
and rivers heavy with melting snow roaring past my
door. I think the other world can’t be far away in
these places, and if I could stay here and be a hermit I
might come to the understanding of life some day.
I wish you were here to help me.”
Tiffany wished it, too. Bui how could she help
anyone, she thought, reading Roddy’s letter by the
wide colonial fireplace, with the black kettle singing
on its hook and Uncle John in slippers dozing over
the “Times.” But Roddy couldn’t stay there. It’s
people one has to learn to face. No use running away,
thought Tiffany, who was just beginning to learn that.
Dogs began a furious barking. “The bull loose
again, damn him,” said Darien, not looking up from
her rows of accounts on the table. Someone knocked
on the door and John went to open it. A scud of
rain blew in, and he shut it behind him, stepping on
to the little verandah. Then came Maori yells, loud
expostulations from John.
“Drunk as lords,” said Darien, jumping up and
catching Tiffany running out to John. “Stop, you
fool! They’ll make short work of us women if they
know we’re here.” There was a rattle of shots, yells
of horrible laughter, no more sounds from John.
“Killed him!” said Darien. In what seemed like
one swift movement she overturned the lamp, flung
newspaper and accounts on the river of blazing oil,
and thrust the table against the window-curtains.
“Come,” she gasped, and had Tiffany out through
the back door as the Maoris burst in at the front and
stopped short with howls of anger at the flames.
“That’ll blind the devils,” said Darien, running
fast with Tiffany across the yard. “Blast the brutes
. . . killing poor old John!”
Beyond the outhouses, on the edge of the bush,
the two women crouched down, Darien rubbing the
nose of her favorite dog, loosed at the kennels as they
ran by. The reed roof of the house was blazing now,
and dark forms moving in the glare.
“Drunk as lords,” whispered Darien. “They’ll
stay there and swill in the heat. Got your breath,
Tiffy? Come on then.”
Tiffany, it seemed, had suddenly gone wild. She
struggled with Darien. “No, no. We can’t leave him.
We must go back.”
“Do as you like,” said Darien, letting go. “You
know what will happen. I’m going to get the sheep.”
Tiffany stood panting and trembling, looking
back at that hellish pandemonium of leaping naked
bodies round the burning house. No, she could do
nothing. She never could. Meekly she crept after
Darien, now in the ram-paddock with the dog, bring-
ing them out on the road in the misty rain. “I think
I might take the prize lambs, too,” muttered Darien,
stopping at the next gate.
tAfELL after midnight a puzzled sentry at Quorn’s
redoubt heard the faint murmur of travelling
sheep and turned out the patrol. Afterwards he told
how even a wren’s feather would have knocked him
down as two ladies (handsome pieces as you could
wish) yarded a mob of sheep into the enclosure before
the red-haired one said, calm as the Queen of Sheba:
“The Maoris have murdered Sir John Lovel and
burnt the farm.”
That kind of thing was all in the day’s Work now ;
but one certainly didn’t expect to have Lady Cal-
thorpe perched on a great troop horse, riding out
with them at daybreak to the farm. And as for her
language over the wholesale slaughter the sergeant
spoke of it appreciatively for months. Every animal
the Maoris had not cared to take lay in blood. Even
the dogs were dead upon the chains. In the heap of
smoking ruins a few charred bones were gathered up
and reverently conveyed to Auckland.
111.
$0 that was war in one of its shapes ; and in Sally’s
arms Tiffany wept for poor Sir John, who had
never done anyone harm, while in the study Pere-
grine (having become Sir Peregrine in such tragic
haste that only an extra pomposity could cloak his
agitation) encountered a Darien ready to knock his
stiff legs from under him at any minute. Darien, he
felt glumly, was in combative mood ; lively as ever
if somewhat coarser, her ruddy curls truculent, her
straight little nose as sharp after a bargain.
“Those stud rams and young ewes will start a fine
flock,” said Darien, stretched at ease in a big leather
chair with uncrinolined legs showing shamelessly.
“If you’ll lend me one of your boats, Peregrine, I’ll
take ’em straight down to Canterbury. They can run
on your land till I see what better to do.”
Peregrine inserted a finger in his collar, which
seemed to be tightening already. Darien, he sug-
gested suavely, would remember that he had advanced
money to buy the rams, and though he and Caroline
took it very kind of her to have saved them——
“Bah,” said Darien, snapping her fingers. “That
for Caroline . . . and you, too. They’re mine now,
every head of ’em. You’d have had only dead ones
if they’d been left to you, and you can’t get away
from that.”
Peregrine couldn’t. All Darien’s idea seemed a
liaison between common sense and an acquisitive
constitution. He said acidly:
“Do I understand that you wish to pirate my
sheep as well as my land?”
“I don’t know what you understand. Of course
anyone so selfish as you will want to get something
out of it. Come now, make your terms and I’ll make
mine,” said Darien generously.
Peregrine walked about nervously. With poverty
on his doorstep and worse ahead, he would never be
able to improve his Canterbury flocks, and to get
those carefully-culled ewes and rams down there
would be a beginning. He might arrange with the
manager . . . Pulling his side-whiskers, he said that
possibly he might consider it since his interest in the
rams
“Oh, come through the horses,” said Darien, sit-
ting up. “You haven’t any interest. Don’t flatter
yourself. Look here. You know Andrew says your
manager’s a fool and your wool-production third-
class. Make me manager and I’ll give you a share in
my next lambing. Of course I’ll need a good salary,
and money for fencing, for I won’t have my stud mix-
ing with your runts.”
“H’m,” said Peregrine cautiously. Darien’s
notion of shares was likely to prove troublesome, and
a female manager outraged all accepted canons. But
such'a passionate and able lover of animal perfection
would never keep her hands off his flocks. She’d im-
prove them in spite of herself, and when the war was #
over he would send Jerry down to turn her out.
For an hour they wrangled over. details, and
Darien discovered that Peregrine was not soft old
John. He had everything in writing before they
emerged at last with appropriate expressions ; Pere-
grine trying to hide his content since John was yet
unburied, and Darien going disconsolately to the
women.
“I never met anyone so selfish in my life. I’d
poison him if he was mine, Sally. Well, one com-
fort is he’ll have to look after Caroline and her bunch
now. They’ll never make anything out of the farm,”
said Darien, getting into an old blue frock of Tif-
fany’s and thinking how nice she looked. If it wasn’t
for the sheep one might be a lady again for a little
while ... “I shall want you too, Tiffy,” she said.
“Oh. Will you really?” Tiffany brightened. All
mamma’s wanting of her would make no impression
on papa, and there seemed so little ahead but suicide.
“Can’t do without you,” said Darien. Tiffy could
look after the house. She was a good cook—would
. need no wages. I wonder if Peregrine would pay for
her board, she thought, and sighed. It wasn’t very
likely.
(To be continued.)


worth an attempt at grabbing, but at the same time
thinks it has a future of increased usefulness—
when Australians themselves, after developing a strain
of people suited to the environment, get around to
serious experiment with the soil.
His book rests factually on the work of the ex-
plorers, of scientists like Edgeworth David, Madigan
and Mawson, his own experiences and the reports of
general observers such as Michael Terry and C. Price
Conigrave. Practically every distinct class of country
in the continent is described broadly—and depend-
ably, except in the case of areas like the far north of
disputed character.
In the matter of observations about Australians
he is given to dogmatising on very debatable ground.
“Australians lack a stimulus to originality and
invention, and are not people of quick imagination,
though, happily, this is to some extent counteracted by
swiftness of action.” “Australians are too few in
number to produce the diversified types which are
necessary for the efficient organisation of modern
civilised communities.” Our climate —overlooking
our very wide climatic variations—will cause us “ulti-
mately to closely resemble the peoples of the Medi-
terranean unless we preserve our race characteristics
by continual and large-scale replenishment of popu-
lation from the Mother Country.”
Robert Graves's Romans.
In Count Belisarius (Cassell), Robert Graves has
taken a more heroic subject than he had in I, Claudius
or Claudius the God, and has, characteristically, treated
it less heroically. He has told the plain story of
a very remarkable man, Belisarius, the last of the
great Roman generals.
Belisarius, though of mixed Slavonic origin, was
the Roman legend incarnate, the flame of a great
spirit in the moment of its extinction. Quietly, prosai-
cally, by means of the pen of the eunuch Eugenius—in
whose person the book is written —Graves raises the
decadent Roman world of the sixth century into the
light of day. He maintains a strictly contemporary
attitude. The Empire is a decaying leviathan ; civili-
sation is sinking before the barbarian inroads. Rome
itself is overwhelmed, and the similitude of Roman
power, with the empty Roman name, has passed to
Constantinople.
The rational attitude of mind that characterised
Roman civilisation at its best is breaking down into
the confused romanticism of the Middle Ages with
its credulity, its endless religious discussions, its welter
of blood and faith. Out of this tumbling mass of
disintegration Belisarius stands like a statue. As the
servant of the Emperor Justinian he won impossible
victory after impossible victory, driving the king of
kings, Kobad the Persian, and his 22,000 men back
across the Euphrates with only a few thousand
troops ; capturing Carthage from the Vandals and
Italy from the Goths ; holding off the Huns, the most
formidable of tfie barbarians, from Constantinople.
He could arrest the decay of the Empire only for a
moment in time, but he did arrest it. When the Goth
women taunted their husbands for their defeat they
answered that they had not been beaten by the Roman
soldiers but by Belisarius, “the boldest man who ever
lived.”
The life of Belisarius sculptures into the perfect
classic ; it has dramatic rise, zenith and fall. His
success and popularity won him the fear and hatred of
the cowardly Justinian until the latter found an oppor-
tunity to strip him of his wealth and rank, blind him,
and turn him into the streets of Constantinople to
beg his bread. Belisarius might have saved the diadem
for himself to the benefit of the Empire, and was
urged to do so, even by the Empress, but he would
not break his vow of loyalty. And so he ended.
Belisarius lends himself superbly to rodomontade,
but Graves chooses to tell the story calmly, without
ornament, with many digressions into such subjects
as the newly-established silk industry, the manufacture
and sale of sacred relics, Hippodrome politics and the
science of building. The result justifies him. The
book gives a picture of the sixth century world so
solid, intimate and natural that the reader feels he
could enter it and walk about at will.
This is more than verisimilitude ; it is reality, and
the events recorded have the same quality of truth
and substance. Count Belisarius is never dull for all
that it is taken up largely with descriptions of battles
and tactics. It is enlivened with many anecdotes —
for which the author has a flair. There is one of the
Persian king, Khosrou, who thought he would show
the Romans that he could outrival them in their own
civilisation and held games in a conquered town to
prove it:
It was in Apamea that he ordered a chariot race in
his own honor. “Mark you,” he said, “the Green Color
must be given the precedence, since the Emperor Justinian
and his Empress have, my Ministers inform me, too long
shown an unjust bias in favor of the Blue.” In Persia
chariots are used only in parades and ceremonial proces-
sions; Khosrou therefore did not realise that the sport
was competitive. The four chariots were released from
the “prisons,” the charioteers strove with cry and blow
for the lead, and the First Blue soon gained the inner
berth: he shot 50 paces ahead of the Second Blue, with
two Greens a long way behind. Khosrou grew very
angry and, seeing in the Blue chariots an emblem of the
Emperor, he cried out, “Stop the race, stop that Caesar!
He has impertinently stolen the lead from my two
chariots.” Persian soldiers rushed into the arena and
formed a barrier with lances. The Blue charioteers
pulled up, for fear of impaling their horses, and the
Green chariots were allowed to take the lead and win.
Graves goes on to say that this was the foulest
race ever seen in a hippodrome—where there were
some pretty foul ones. “The audience laughed up-
roariously, and Khosrou beamed at them, not realis-
ing that the joke was against himself.”
Three Frenchwomen.
Louis Aragon, who is known in other fields of
literature, has written a large and very purposeful
novel, The Bells of Basle (Peter Davies and Lovat
Dickson; translated by Haakon M. Chevalier). It
is set in France in the decade before the war and is
an obvious propaganda piece very seriously worked
out in immense detail; a suety sort of book despite a
salting of sudden deaths and the literary skill of its
author.
It is really two novels and an epilogue, and it
hinges on three women characters. They illustrate
the three faces of France as seen by M. Aragon.
Diana is beautiful, predatory and completely amoral.
Her world is one of intrigue, cold and sensuous. She
changes her husbands and lovers for ever greater
gain and at the same time maintains her unblemished
respectability. This is the world of the French farce
produced to the nth degree.
Diane’s mamma is a little masterpiece, the great
lady of untarnished record. There is a grim side to
the soulless farce when a young lieutenant caught in
the wiles of Diane and the toils of her usurer husband-
of-the-moment commits suicide. The happy pair
invoke and receive political aid in getting out of their
fix.
The second story, which touches the first only at
a few unimportant points, is of a beautiful Georgian
girl, Catherine Simonidze. Victim of her stupid,
callous mother and her socially ambitious sister,
Catherine sought refuge in love affairs and dissipa-
tion, only to find her life empty and tasteless. As a
stimulant she turned to social revolution when an
attractive young taxi-driver saved her from suicide
in the Seine.
She involved herself in a taxi-drivers’ strike, re-
mained an outsider. She stands for bourgeoise France
dabbling in social revolution for the thrill it gives,
but with also an occasional twinge of sincerity.
Catherine is lost and should be a tragic figure. She
remains, like Diane, a stencil.
The epilogue is not a story at all, but an enthusi-
astic portrait of Clara Zetkin, the full-blown woman
revolutionary, who has freed herself from intrigue
and selfishness, from vacillation and dilettantism. She
is a German, and that is an earnest of this French-
man’s international spirit.
Deputation to Canberra.
Australian writers who asked the Government to
establish a Council of Literature” with an annual
grant to foster Australian letters and the drama came
away from Canberra fairly hopefully.
The idea took form when Alex. Bookluck and
I. K. Sampson tabled a scheme at a Fellowship of
Australian Writers meeting, and the deputation finally
chosen included Bartlett Adamson, Flora Eldershaw
and Will Lawson.
Assistance and advice at Canberra were given by
Scullin, Deputy Minister for Customs Perkins, and
Commonwealth Librarian Kenneth Binns, to whom
the scheme may be sent by the Government for
comment.
The deputation was supported by Macartney
Abbott, Collings and Gullett. Following Scullin’s
introduction Bartlett Adamson put the case:
• Without its permanent recorded background, its
indigenous literature, a nation can only express the in-
herited traditions of other countries; and while, in our
case, the “other countries” are closely related by blood
and other ties, it is important that Australia’s developed
differences should be illuminated and clarified.
Though the Australian entity demands a literature,
publishing risks in a limited market militate against it
There is a constant leakage of talent from Australia.
There is the flight of writers of ability to other fields;
there is the case of the writer seeking publication abroad
and therefore influenced toward an English or American
approach to his subject. Conditions compel the writer
to seek a livelihood in trivial writing or in other occupa-
tions and bring to his creative work no more than the
residue of his energies.
Government assistance to literature is less startling
than it seems. Tariff walls, rates of exchange and so
on have been used to foster industry. Literature is
not of less importance.
The scheme outlined provided for subsidising the
writing of a limited number of books of fiction, drama,
poetry, plays and historical and economic works ; sub-
sidising the publication of works of cultural value but
limited commercial possibilities ; the subsidised publi-
cation of national classics that are not kept alive by
commercial publishers; assistance in drama; the
founding of a Chair of Australian Literature ; revision
of the existing pension fund for (a) a limited number
of first-class life pensions to writers who have made
a valuable contribution to Australian literature and
who have come to need through age or misfortune,
and (Z>) a larger number of second-class pensions for
veteran writers in need adequate for the recipients
maintenance. Total cost £16,000.
The discussion was agreeable, and at its conclu-
sion the P.M. said, “I don’t think you will get all
you are asking for, but I assure you that your pro-
posals will receive sympathetic consideration.”
The deputation felt it had reason for hope. It
was definite on the point that creative writers should
be strongly represented on the proposed council of
literature, other members to be recognised for know-
ledge of Australian literature. It had also made clear
that while the Fellowship of Australian Writers had
inaugurated the proposals it desired that active writers’
societies in other States should be consulted.
F. D. D.
“Ameralian”: John P. Marquand’s The Late
George Apley, described by the Red Page at the time
of its publication as a hard-shelled nut but “likely to
become an enduring part of American literature,” has
won the Pulitzer Prize, America’s most noted literary
award. The Bulletin’s current serial, Promenade,
by G. B. Lancaster, published in New York by Reynal
and Hitchcock, looks like having as big a success as
its predecessor, Pageant. “A first-rate novel,” “histori-
cal fiction that tells an adventurous story with keen
characterisation” and “a rare contribution to popu-
lar understanding of New Zealand” are among the
critical bouquets it has collected.
Various Verse
The Scarlet Dancers.
•N.S.W.
The scarlet dancer caged in bone
Rocking my body like a bell
Calls back the brown dusk of the wood
When first within the double spell
He rhymed his red mate through the shade.
Mocking his cold cage and the sea
Whose image now between them rears
White leagues of blind hostility,
His ringing flame, cool hush of ash,
Still dances with her, heart to heart,
In the dear rhyme of shared delight,
And says that close or worlds apart
In sweet or bitter, sun or shade,
They cannot break the spell they made
When long ago in wood’s brown dusk
They danced a red dance through the glade.
DOUCLAS STEWART.
The Altar in the Thicket.
For tempests on the moon I build this peace;
For rains, lopped sharply from the earth, and drifting,
With silver bough and leaf, who knoweth where?
Its stones shall be the sobbing, swollen flowers;
Its mortar, the purest opening of the stars:
These shall make lamp and altar for my love.
O undistinguishable grasses, snare him not.
Draw back your lashing arms, hoarse ocean-pines.
Hear me, you seas that quiver on your brinks,
And break the glass of depth and loneliness
On weeds that make a dead man of the shore.
Touch not, O sister musics, this my love,
But tell me why his soul must wake my soul.
Till lutes brought dawn, I knew not that it slept.
Not made naked by the drawn-back hands of seas,
By the loftiness of winds that search and pass,
Not made naked by the death-admitting rain,
Or by cold thorns that press to bed in haste-
But bared by hurried terror in his blood,
He stood on dimmer tiptoe than the night
She smeared him with the black sweat of the moth •
Unopened graves held firm his ankles fair
And the moon marched on the slumber of his heart
Who knelt and said unto the altar’s floor,
“Here two thirst now, where one did .thirst before.’’
No, I pour on you,’’ I said, “no thirst to come.
I set no seal on your fast fleeing heart.
Let ancient dawn in golden feathers dressed,
Recall you to the imprint of your ways.
Now turn from me, for woman speaks forth links •
On limbs so wet with freedom these .will rust
Empty your hand of mine, then: fill its ache
With this soft robe which issues from the night
As blood fits dagger so its silk fits thee.
How sweet it smells, as though the ghosts of flowers
Had marched across the bare ribs of the loom.
And all these little braids of supple gold
That lay siege to the white tower of your throat
Were stamped thereon at cockcrow by two mites
As dark and crooked as your countless hair.
Now for the crown which hath in seas been tossed,
And left its jewels to burn in dead men’s eyes;
Now shoes of opal through whose galleries
The restless ghosts of emperors whirl to doom
Shall clasp thy feet and drag thee down from me ”
“These hands of yours,” said he, “would be good shoon
For those that long to drip down to despair ”
And forward bent. Then outward struck the moon
And the hours knelt; but none other with me there.
MAORILAND.
EVB LANGLEY.


No more deafnes*, head
noises or blocked-up nasal
passages.
No more mucous In the nose and
throat, “hawking," spitting, foul
breath and taste.
Clear, health; lungs.
No more hacking
coughs. No more risk
•f serious lung trouble!
An absolute clearance of catarrhal in-
digestion, wind, flatulence, dyspepsia,
heartburn.
A deliverance from vitality
destroying toxaemia due to
Catarrh of the Intestines.
rhe end of Constipation
—the end of CATARRH
2
TT
m
-•
PROVED-theONLYsureway
to banish the poisons of
BRONCHITIS, BRONCHIAL ASTHMA, SINUS,
ANTRUM TROUBLE, ETC., Without Injections I
RHEUMATISM
ARTHRITIS
Neuritis, Sciatica, Lumbago
fenagm *c’
The remarkable results enjoyed by people who
have taken LANTIGEN for Rheumatic disorders
bring new hope to all sufferers. We promise
three results definitely: (1) Rapid relief from
pain; (2) the recedence of swollen joints and
limbs; (3) rapid improvement in general health.
We can promise these definitely because in t"he
case of Rheumatism the following bacterial
organisms are present Streptococci, whole
blood culture (pathogen selective) and M. De-
formans, and LANTIGEN treats each of these
organisms separately, and provides a definite
antidote to their effects. No other treatment
does this. It is impossible for sufferers to take
Lantigen for Rheumatic and Arthritic conditions
without subsequent and pfompt benefit.
Four bottles are usually needed for the average
cases. These are procurable separately at
£ I/1 /- each.
Jantigen
Colds and Influenza.
Checks attacks within 12 hours. Complete
course prevents Colds and Influenza for varying
periods up to two years. Safe, pleasant and
certain. The complete course comprises one
bottle at £ 1 / 1 /-.
lantigen ‘Q’
For Bolls, Carbuncles, Septic
Sores, Pimples, etc.
Clears up Boils, Carbuncles, Pimples, Acime
without leaving a mark, and prevents their
return. Stops pain quickly. The course extends
for about two months. Two bottles are neces-
sary for the average case, each bottle priced at
*l/1/-.
lantigen *p
For Hay Fever.
In addition to antigens against Catarrhal organ-
isms, LANTIGEN “E” contains extracts of mixed
grass pollens to relieve those suffering from
pollen sensitivity. It desensitises the system
against these pollens and rapidly clears away
catarrhal infection. Two £l/1/- bottles of
LANTIGEN “E” are usually all that are neces-
sary for the average case, and these may be
purchased separately.
lantigen ‘p
For Whooping Cough.
Stops attacks quickly, or prevents them if used
before or in the early stages of infection. A
certain, definite remedy. One bottle, priced at
*l/1 /-. is usually sufficient for treatment.
ONLY a vaccine that actually makes
possible the destruction of the
germs that cause Catarrhal and other
diseases has any LASTING EFFECT in
treating these complaints! Temporary
measures are useless. But hundreds of
chronic sufferers who have tried scores of
treatments have proved LANTIGEN —
the wonderful immunisation treatment
—the only completely effective and last-
ing remedy for deep-seated bacterial dis-
orders.
No longer is it necessary to undergo
painful and expensive vaccination by in-
jection for the treatment of many serious
chronic diseases. LANTIGEN, taken
by mouth (a few drops in water at bed-
time), treats the condition and builds up
bodily resistance against further attacks.
In LANTIGEN, a leading bacteriologist
has developed a series of antigens which
incite the creation of antibodies to fight
and destroy bacterial bodies which cause
disease. NO OTHER METHOD CAN
BE AS EFFECTIVE.
Catarrh begins in the nasal passages,
and is caused by virulent germs which
attack the whole body, resulting in serious
chest complaints, constantly recurring
colds, deafness and many other serious
diseases.
These deadly germs must be treated
separately, otherwise complete relief from
Catarrh is impossible.
We state definitely that no other
treatment on the market to-day,
except LANTIGEN, sets out to
attack and fight these germs
separately.
Do You Suffer from
These Symptoms of
Catarrhal Disorders?
Splitting Headaches?
Spots before the Eyes?
Deafness?
Head Noises?
Unpleasant Breath ?
Stuffiness?
Heavy Head on Arising?
Constant Tiredness?
Start on a course of LANTIGEN
to-day—and treat the basic cause
of Catarrhal complaints.
LANTIGEN fosters the production of
natural antibodies to combat the poisons
released by the germs, and so draw
them out of the system one by one.
QUICK ACTION
The antigens in LANTIGEN are de-
toxified and pre-dissolved so that it
may be presented to the receptor cells in
a manner suitable for immediate immu-
nisation response. There is, therefore,
no need for the system to dissolve the
micro-organisms, either in suspension,
as in ordinary vaccines, or in the dried
form, as they are presented in capsules.
The action of LANTIGEN is, therefore,
very much more rapid than any other
form of immunisation.
“COMPLETELY CURED
AFTER 10 YEARS”
Says Chronic Sufferer
Guildford, N.S.W.
“For the last ten years at least I have
had Asthma attacks at least once every
night during the summer months, and
this year these attacks became more
severe and were extending into the winter
months, until I tried your LANTIGEN
‘B’ just five weeks ago. I am now free
of attacks and have much less Catarrh.
I noticed the first results within two
weeks. Now the prospect of a free
summer is quite bright, and I am grateful
that any heavy expenses for operations
and harmful drug treatments are now
eliminated by the use of a cheap but
highly scientific treatment, which is
LANTIGEN ‘B/ ”
(Signed) E.J.G.
The average complaint is under control
with two bottles, and in many cases this
is sufficient to give immunity for varying
periods up to two years. Each bottle
is priced at £1 Is., but they may be
purchased separately. In deep-seated or
stubborn cases, three to four bottles will
almost invariably give the immunity as
above stated.
PRICE
£l/1/
Per Bottle
Several
Weeks’
Treatment
[an tigen B
A PRODUCT OF EDINBURGH LABORATORIES
Recommended and Stocked by all Chemists
If Y our Chemist Has Not Supplies, or You
Require Further Information, Write to: —
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Edinburgh Laboratories, Grace Building, 77
York Street, Sydney. G.P.O. Box 373355.
’Phone: MA6939 (2 lines).
VICTORIA:
Edinburgh Laboratories Pty., Ltd., Askew
House, 364-372 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 1241 L. ’Phone: F 4927, F 3448,
Central 3527.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
AGENT'S: Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Lantigen
Dept., 7 Gawler Place, Adelaide. G.P.O. Box
581 D. ’Phone: Cent. 100. WHOLESALE
DISTRIBUTORS': F. H. Faulding & Co., Ltd.,
James Place, Adelaide; A. M. Bickford & Sons,
Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
Edinburgh Laboratories, A.M.P. Building, Queen
and Edward Streets, Brisbane. G.P.O. Box
1983 X. ’Phone: 89739.
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
W. J. Claydon & Carpenter, Ltd., 144 William
Street, Perth. (Formerly K. S. Andrus & Co.,
Ltd.) G.P.O. Box 794. ’Phone: BG4IB.
SOLE WHOLESALE AGENTS FOB TASMANIA: L. Fairthorne & Son Pty., Ltd., St. John Street, Launceston.
NEW ZEALAND AGENTS: Q-Tol-Fluenzol Laboratories, Thorndon Quay, Wellington. P.O. Box 1018.
New No-Friction toothpaste Amazes Dentists
FIVE-IN-ONE Dental {mm
Dentists everywhere
are praising this—the
ONLY toothpaste in
the world containing-
LANTIGEN "D” to
kill bacteria in the
mouth—and “Depres-
sium”, to decrease
“surface-tension” and
dissolve film away.
Keeps teeth perfect!
2
/
At all
Chemists
t
7,
m
★
Cleanses by an entirely new method without friction
including crevices where brush does not reach.
★ Wonderful ingredient “Depressium” dissolves all mucoid
film and stains without injuring enamel.
Includes LANTIGEN “D”, to prevent gingivitis and pyor-
rhea, heal spongy gums, and dissolve bacterial organisms
in the mouth. , v
Contains no scratchy abrasives —no excess soap (no soapy
taste) —no irritating antiseptics.
-. Cleanses dental plates easily and thoroughly.
' ALL the family. "
Ideal for
Kills Germs Whitens Teeth Keeps Mouth Fresh!


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
at
.
I
■
■ m
i
U
mm
m :
Hi
:
m
m
H
■
li
,
m
m
m
mm.
am
m
M
m
m
m
7
mm
m
m
N
m
M
m
«■
x**;
%
11
a
n
m
a
*
a
HSUi
li
•J*
IPS
E
■
m
wsm
wm
m
>
■I
>
SA.
m
91
1
a
■ : "Z
s
M
m
%
■
■
■
m
RMS
■
Wm
a
mm
Wine-filled Casks awaiting Storage in one of the Vast Cellars Available.
•,•■■* .. O’
V MW


TWENTY YEARS AFTER.
“The National War Memorial at Villers-Bret. has been completed.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street. London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
REACTION AGAINST WAR YELP.
Airmails from overseas bring signs that at last some
reaction against war yelp is setting in. It is overdue
—the yelpers have had a long innings. In Australia
time after time punch-drunk journals have yelped in
chorus, and radio babblers have given false emphasis
to false news.
What war yelp has been doing to Britain has been
indicated in “Uncabled Additions.” There was that
“Bankers’ Magazine” report of a month’s loss of
£126,549,000 on 365 representative stocks, largely
attributed to war scare. .There was the reply to an
anxious questioner in the Commons that “mass pro-
duction of gas masks for babies would begin at once.”
There were newspapers publishing plans for trenches
and dugouts in gardens and parks; timetables for
moving 3,500,000 Londoners 50 miles by rail within
72 hours ; “base-line” hospitals in outer London, and
so on.
If this did not tell him where war scare was lead-
ing, Mr. Chamberlain had the experience of repeated
debates brought up on the scare-wave. In one of
these he had to deny that his Government is rearming
Britain because it expects war soon: “the exact
contrary is the case.” Addressing a gathering of 7000
women in London, he mentioned how mothers from
all parts of Britain were writing to him hoping he
would be able to do something to prevent their sons
being dragged off to the slaughter. Mr. Chamberlain
said he was able to come to them with words of
comfort: his comfort, in effect, was that he had been
able to stop the drift to war involved in Mr. Eden’s
conduct of foreign affairs.
In steadying up the scare-drift, the Prime Minister
is now being joined by a chorus of other voices, all
striving to stop what has been degenerating into panic.
Many of the choir are on different sorts of platforms,
but their tune is all one.
Thus the Archbishop of Canterbury wisely points
out that what we call tension is often only another
way of describing rattled nerves, and that indulgence
in war scare may “itself become a contributory cause
of war.” The “Times” insists that there should be
no hesitation in dealing drastically with scaremongers,
and that “there is no reason for war, and no likeli-
hood of war, unless some explosive incident jerks
people out of the realm of reason into that of passion,
rivalry and hatred.” The “Daily Express” points out
to the individual the horrors he would have to
undergo if the scaremongers had their way and
their war came. The president of Marconi’s Wireless
Telegraph Co. tells the annual meeting in London
that “a European war is neither imminent nor inevit-
able.”
“Time and Tide,” a “Leftish” publication, has
been fulminating against the dire threat of the Fascist
countries for years. It now asks:
But is war so close as all that? War under present
conditions for Germany means bread- and meat-cards
from the word Go. No war lasting more than six
months can be contemplated till that situation is
improved.
Another “Leftish” publication, the “New States-
man and Nation,” has belatedly discovered that “the
only thing to do about modem war is to stop it,” and
that “there is no ‘cause’ that is worth this war, because
there is no cause that we can serve by it.” The “Daily
Mail” campaigns against the “myopic Left-Wingers”
who are “trying to pledge British lives and British
money in the service of Czechoslovakia.” The “Even-
ing Standard,” harking back to-the Czechoslovakian
“crisis” which sent newspapers—Sydney “Sun” and
“Telegraph” most violently—into war-scare hysterics,
now declares that no “incident” was then likely to
break up the peace, “for the decisive reason that no-
body intended to make war.”
The “National Review” points out that “those
who believe in short wars have the evidence of both
Spain and China to make them reflect.” The “World
Review” learns that “well-informed quarters in
London discount the idea of a war over Czecho-
slovakia.” Lord Lothian, addressing the Royal Insti-
tute of International Affairs, states that “there is not
a Government in the world that would dream of start-
ing a world war, for the reason that nobody can tell
what its outcome would be, except that any regime
which enters the next world war will certainly not be
in power at the end of it.” And Lord Halifax spoke
equally pregnant words in the House of Lords:
Many people think and talk nowadays of the inevita-
bility of war. Such talk is both dangerous and essen-
tially untrue. I would far rather think and speak in
terms of belief that there are enough sensible people in
all countries who realise that war cannot be regarded
as other than the supreme disaster of civilisation, and
that the more true conclusion is that it is peace through
understanding—instead of war —which is inevitable.
So the chorus swells. Nobody in his senses denies
that war is possible. War is always possible. Especi-
ally at times when men are taught by liars that it is
their duty to hate other men.
This swing against the state of panic to which the
scaremongers were bringing people is not a moment
before its time. It is increasing in Britain, and it
will reach Australia in due course. It will affect news-
paper sales, no doubt; but in all other respects it will
be all to the good.
No Need in Australia.
A New York grand jury has broken away from the
normal conventions of espionage, which have hitherto
been as rigid as those of duelling used to be. Under
the duelling code it was quite in order to drill an
adversary with a .45 calibre lead bullet at 12 paces, so
long as your second had loaded the pistol. Similarly
it was in keeping with tradition to hang, shoot or
behead a spy ; but those who employed him or her
were considered to be on the sidelines.
The New York grand jury has charged 18 persons,
“13 of whom are Germans who cannot be extradited,”
with the theft of military, aviation and industrial
secrets. That kind of thing goes on almost every-
where. Germany has just beheaded three men
and a woman for having stolen or attempted
to steal the same sort of property. A nest of
spies was recently unearthed in London, and the
downiest birds are now in gaol; they pinched Wool-
wich Arsenal plans of a naval gun and anti-tank and
anti-submarine weapons for Russia. Russia, in turn,
has spent a busy year “liquidating” Old Bolshevists
and others alleged to have been spies for Japan and
Germany.
And “the Baillie-Stewart affair” is not forgotten.
A young officer in a crack regiment, Baillie-Stewart
was sentenced to a term of imprisonment for having
betrayed information to a German girl, “Marie Louise”
—beautiful, of course: the flapper press saw to that.
His case was followed by a French trial which
revealed the existence of a sort of international clear-
ing-house, the employees of which, male and female,
spied and stole for the highest bidder.
The U.S.A. incident, therefore, presents a differ-
ence of attitude rather than of fact. First, those who
are believed to have sent out the spies are named,
though there is no chance of catching them. Second,
the press of the world has suddenly become conscious
of the immorality of nations that subsidise espionage.
The New York “Times,” - Uncle Sam’s most conser-
vative daily next to the “Christian Science Monitor,”
says:—
The grand jury’s action appears mainly to be a
moral indictment of the German nation.
Then it is equally an indictment of other nations.
But that consideration will not disturb the slumbers
of generals and admirals who in their writings have
not been too proud to admit that they have used
information got by methods in which morality was
left out of the argument.
While the defence of nations remains a compli-
cated business in which it is reckoned essential —or,
at least, highly important—to be one jump ahead of
the next fellow, espionage and the theft of maps and
blue-prints will go on.
There is one country in which spies are seldom
caught because there is seldom any need to catch
them; and there is another country in which there
has never been a spy trial. In Japan any unauthorised
person found in an area in which military or naval
information may be obtained is detained and ques-
tioned. Traitors are unknown, and the anti-spy
inquisition is so thorough that by the time the spy
has run the gauntlet he has ceased to be useful.
Australia is the country which has never tried
a spy. The flapper press would welcome an invasion
of Phillips Oppenheim characters, and would guarantee
to make the lady-spies beautiful even if their faces
would stop clocks; but there is nothing for these
thrilling creatures to do. Australia is obvious from
the sea, and any foreigner can fly over any capital
city in a ’plane. The material facts about armament
factories, aerodromes and naval oiltanks are common
knowledge. One Big City depends on a coastal power
station which is miles away from the guns which com-
mand the main entrance to the harbor. And near
the gun positions there are a public golfcourse, two
public bathing beaches, picnic grounds and rocks
which anybody with a fishing-rod may approach day
or night, except during gun practice.
The Nation First.
The strong Australian prejudice against national mili-
tary training and national service in time of war will
have to be overcome if this country is to be made
safe. It dates from the clumsy conscription-referen-
dum campaigns, and is kept alive by vain old boys
who were anti-conscriptionists in 1916 and 1917, and
who persist in regarding—and proclaiming—them-
selves as heroes. No reverence is felt in the U.S.A.
for the Americans who were their counterparts when
the Union was fighting for its life.
The most notorious of these American antis was
an Ohio politician named Vallandigham. When con-
scription was about to be enforced in the loyal
States, Mr. Vallandigham started a campaign of
his own on the war and Lincoln’s Government “in
a spirit of sweeping hostility to both.” Ohio was
included in a military department of which General
Burnside was in command, and Burnside issued a
general order which was construed as a warning to
Vallandigham. It was ignored, and Vallandigham
was placed under arrest on a charge of having, in a
public address,
expressed sympathy for those in arms against the Gov-
ernment of the United States, and declared disloyal senti-
ments and opinions, with the object and purpose of
weakening the power of the Government in its efforts
to suppress an unlawful rebellion.
Vallandigham was tried by court-martial, found
guilty and sentenced to “close confinement till the
end of the war.” The sentence was altered at the
wise old President’s instance; Vallandigham was
passed into the Confederate lines. The Confederates
gave him a passage in a blockade-runner which
reached Nassau, and from that British island he found
his way to Canada.
His friends made a tremendous outcry. The
Ohio Democrats nominated him for Governor. At
Albany, New York, there was a “great meeting,” at
which resolutions condemnatory of the Governmeni
were passed. They were carried to the President at
Washington, and, with the homely logic of which
he was a master, he riddled them one by one. His
letter is too long for reprint in a short article, but
these passages should be reproduced:
It is asserted, in substance, that Mr. Vallandigham
was seized and tried “for no other reason than words
addressed to a public meeting in criticism of the course
of the Administration and in condemnation of the mili-
tary orders of the general.” Now if there be no mistake
about this the arrest was wrong; but it was made for
a very different reason.
Mr. Vallandigham avows his hostility to the war
on the part of the Union; and his arrest was made
because he was laboring, with some effect, to prevent
the raising of troops He was damaging the army,
upon the existence and vigor of which the life of the
nation depends.
Must I shoot a simple-minded soldier boy who deserts,
while I must not touch a hair of a wily agitator who
induces him to desert?
I think that, in such a case, to silence the agitator
and save the boy is not only constitutional but withal
a great mercy.
The President also replied at length to the protest
of the Ohio Democrats. To them he wrote: —-
You claim that men may, if they choose, embarrass
those whose duty it is to combat a giant rebellion,
and then be dealt with only in turn as if there were no
rebellion. The Constitution itself rejects that view.
Your nominee for Governor, in whose behalf you
appeal, is known to you and to the world to declare
against the use of an army to- suppress the rebellion.
Your own attitude, therefore, encourages desertion, resist-
ance to the draft and the like, because it teaches those
who are inclined to desert and to escape the draft to
believe it is your purpose to protect them, and to hope
that you will become strong enough to do so.
Conscription was enforced —bloodily in New
York, where there was rioting for four days. Sey-
mour, the State Governor, appealed to the President
to suspend the draft until the law should be declared
constitutional by the Supreme Court. To him the
President replied:
I do not object to abide the decision of the United
States Supreme Court on the constitutionality of the
draft law. In fact, I should be willing to facilitate the
obtaining of it. But I cannot consent to lose the time
while it is being obtained.
We are contending with an enemy who drives every
able-bodied man he can reach into his ranks, very much
as a butcher drives bullocks into the slaughter pen.
No time is wasted, no argument is used. This produces
an army which will soon turn upon our now victorious
soldiers already in the field if they shall not be sustained
by recruits, as they should be. It produces an army
with a rapidity not to be matched on our side, if we
first waste time to re-experiment with the volunteer
system, already deemed by Congress, and palpably, in
fact, so far exhausted as to be inadequate; and then
more time to obtain a Court decision as to whether a
law is constitutional which requires a part of those not
now in the service to go to the aid of those who are
already in it; and still more time to determine with abso-
lute certainty that we get those who are to go in the
precisely legal proportion to those who are not to go.
In Pennsylvania there was found a Judge who
pronounced the conscription measures unconstitutional.
On going up for re-election he was defeated by a
Republican, and his judgment was reversed by a Court
which set out the position in these terms:
The constitutional authority to use the national forces
creates a corresponding duty to provide a number ade-
quate to the necessity. The duty is vital and essential,
falling back on the fundamental right of self-preservation,
and the powers expressed to declare war, raise armies,
maintain navies and provide for the common defence.
Power and duty go hand in hand with the extremity
until every available man in the nation is called into
service, if the emergency requires it. Of this there can
be no judge but Congress.
In Ohio in 1862 the Congressional elections had
been unfavorable to the Republicans. In the contest
for Governor in 1863 a Republican beat Vallandigham
by 288,661 to 187,562. The Ohio soldiers who voted
at the front —as did our soldiers in 1916 and 1917 —
gave 41,467 votes for Brough, the Republican, and
2288 for Vallandigham. With the triumph of the
Union that gentleman sank into obscurity. On the
other hand, the fame of the President who was a
conscriptionist grows with the years. The sad old
world only wishes it had a man like him to-day.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Is It Just Political Jobbery?
Isaac Isaacs, concerned in his old age about the slide
to provincialism, the growth of government by board,
commission and regulation, and the general prevalence
of legislation by fits and starts, can see no merit in
Inter-State Commission Bill No. 2, which arrived in
the House of Representatives after the guillotine had
fallen on the “deliberations” on National Incubus.
To the former C.J. and G.-G. the measure is “as
full of holes as a colander.” Apart from that aspect,
he objects to its being thrust on the country by, among
others, 12 Senators whose terms are almost expired,
and among whom are persons suspected of being
candidates for appointment.
Inter-State Commission Bill No. 1 made its appear-
ance in the Senate on June 23, 1937. Senator Pearce
introduced it, and even then it was widely believed that
he had the chairmanship (at £2OOO p.a.) in his pocket.
With unusual haste for the Senate, the second-reading
debate was completed and the committee stage entered
upon on June 24. On clause 7 Senator Johnson, also
from Westralia, moved an amendment—“provided
that no person who has attained the age of 65 shall
be appointed a Commissioner.” “The Government
cannot accept the amendment,” said Senator Pearce,
who was then 67 —his Government retires civil servants
at 65 and retired General Brand, now a Senator, at
59. And the amendment was negatived.
The unusual haste went for nothing; the bill
did not reach the House. It was deemed expedient to
go to the country in October and to put Mr. Pearce’s
name on the Westralian Senate ticket once more. Mr.
Pearce was defeated, and so were two other Ministers.
The defeated Senators did not have to retire till
June 30.
Inter-State Commission Bill No. 1 provided for
a commission of three. When fished out of the ash
barrel, altered a bit and introduced by P.M.G.
McLachlan in the Senate on May 4 it was found to
provide for a commission of five. Senator Pearce
blithely said in June, 1937, that the three-member
commission “would necessarily require the services
of an expert staff” ; of equal necessity the five-member
commission would “require” to be surrounded by
still more experts.
Among the arguments for the setting-up of this
superfluous body is that it would take over the “duties”
now “discharged” by the Commonwealth Grants
Commission. There is no necessity for that commis-
sion ; its appointment was merely a device for shunt-
ing responsibility which Ministers should undertake
themselves. Neither is there the slightest ground for
the appointment of five Inter-State Commissioners and
“an expert staff” to relieve Ministers, some of whom
are nearly always away—three are in London now.
In view of the High Court judgment on the powers
of the Inter-State Commission that faded out in 1920
a resurrected body would be neither use nor ornament.
The story at Canberra is that the Government is
not particularly keen on the passing of Inter-State
Commission Bill No. 2. If it is passed, the thing
will look two ends and the middle of a shabby poli-
tical job.
The King at Villers-Bret.
Next month the King will go “on pilgrimage” to the
country of the Five Red Rivers, as did his father
when Kipling was moved to write the last and not
the least memorable of his poems on great occasions.
On July 22 his Majesty will be at Villers-Bretonneux
to unveil this nation’s memorial to the Diggers who
fell on the Western Front; the ceremony has been
postponed for three weeks inconsequence of the death
of the Queen’s mother.
The memorial was designed by Lutyens, and is
said to be as simple and as noble as his Cenotaph.
If so, it will be a worthy and enduring symbol in
stone of the character, the achievements and the sac-
rifices of the division that sleeps at Villers-Bret.
The recapture of that storied village by Austra-
lians of the Fifth Division was one of the most
splendid feats of arms in the Great War. It is to be
hoped that, while the King is honoring the memory
of the men who fought for his house and for their
own dear land, chapters of the thrilling story will be
read to the boys in every place that possesses a school
and a copy of Charles Bean’s History of the A.I F.
After Three Years.
It was in May, 1935, that the British Government
first proposed a flying-boat mail service to Australia,
with three-halfpenny postage and an ultimate seven-
day schedule, based on 80 flying hours at 150 m.p.h.
Mr. Parkhill, then the responsible Minister, pro-
nounced flying-boats “too slow.”
By the end of 1936 even the “S. M. Herald” was
attacking the Minister for his “inglorious inability to
make up his mind.” The first flying-boats were then
in the air.
Now, after the patience of everyone except
the gentlemen at Canberra has been exhausted, the
scheme invented in May, 1935, is to come into full
operation on Aug. 9 —there is to be a “running-in”
period of a month —with a nine-day service to Sydney.
Mails will be carried from London to Australia at
lid. per letter. Australians are to be fined a
letter for being Australians; from this end the mail
rate will be sd.
No arrangements have yet been made for internal
airmail deliveries. Rates and routes are “in the air.”
Also, it will be some time before the trans-Tasman
service is ushered in. But time, which means money
to businessmen who don’t go into politics, means no-
thing to politicians who go into business.
Colebatch and the "Cronk-News."
Attorney-General Menzies has had a go at London
evening newspapers on the score of their snarling refer-
ences to the Australian batting in the first Test match :
he described them as “contributions to insular preju-
dice and Empire disunity.” Colebatch, the Westralian
Agent-General, has a more solid grievance against one
London newspaper.
In a speech delivered at Cardiff last month Mr.
Colebatch was alleged to have made wounding
remarks about his hosts: —-
Present-day Britons are incapable of founding a
new Empire. Britons who settle in Australia find the
life too hard and the gains too few. Southern
Europeans make good by hard work.
It was also asserted that he “made sport of
Britain’s so-called liberty.”
“What is wanted in this country is a 10-year plan
aimed at building up the people’s mental, moral and
physical standards ”
He advocated compulsory military training. Aus-
tralia, he added, wanted a 98 p.c. British population,
but they must be Britons of the right sort.
All this was published by the Sydney “Sun” and
the Adelaide “Advertiser,” and no doubt by other Aus-
tralian newspapers which get their cables from one
source. Evidently the account reached London, and
Mr. Colebatch, who is an old journalist, must have
hit the roof. Anyway, a refutation was cabled, and
the “Advertiser” admitted that its report of the speech
had “misrepresented the Agent-General in substance
and tone.”
He did not suggest that Britons were degenerate.
He did not advocate compulsory military training.
He did not make sport of British liberty, but gave
instances of cases in which liberty had degenerated into '
license.
His audience did not, as was reported, sit either
silent or in dumb amazement.
The speech was received with enormous appreciation.
The “Advertiser” explains that “the cable report
was based almost wholly on a report in the ‘News-
Cnronicle.’ ” So the “Cronk-News” can’t even take
down a veteran journalist’s remarks on a topic with
which he is—and it should be—familiar without wildly
and invidiously misrepresenting him. But ten to one
this example of its reporting won’t prevent our Glori-
ous Press from quoting it copiously as an authority
on foreign news, especially when it discovers that
some “Fascist” Power or other is about to go to war.
"Investing."
“D.E.”: As every fly-flat knows, fortunes can be
picked up in Sydney with the greatest of ease, but
only by the people whom daily newspapers and com-
mercial radio stations call “investors.” For these —or
for you, if your fancy inclines that way—a liberal
choice of “investments” is offered. You can “invest”
in the lot’ry or you can “invest” on the horses, the
tin-hares or the Red Hots.
If you decide to “invest” in the lot’ry you can
make sure of winning by a preliminary “investment”
in a four-leaf shamrock or a rabbit’s foot. Or, better
still, you can purchase—in Sydney you never buy
anything—a share in the lot’ry “investment” of a
person with a lucky horoscope.
If you prefer to “invest” on the horses or the
tin-hares (the Red Hots may be left out of the argu-
ment, not being so popular a form of “investment”
in Sydney as in Perth or Adelaide) you can likewise
make a certainty of it by “investing” in Blestbets or
in Mr. Croup Dahlia’s Two-Pound-Money-Back
Specials. Or if you would rather be guided by other
“investors” who sell deadshot systems the Labor
broadcasting station, which exists solely to emancipate
the toiling masses, will put you in touch with half a
dozen. You may be sure that every one of them has
learned sufficient about this branch of the “investing”
game to know that the horse is a four-footed animal
with a head at one end and a tail at the other.
While the money lasts, you can combine or
spread your “investments” as you please. If by
some unhappy accident your money gives out and it
becomes a matter of necessity to purchase things for
the house, you can tide over the temporary difficulty
with a cash order. In this case you may be required
to get a guarantee from some person who is not an
“investor.”
These are the main interests for which thousands
of Sydney people live more or less laborious days.
When their spirits flag, they listen to canned American
music on the wireless or go to “the pictures.” Their
reading is confined to newspapers, and the parts that
appeal to them, apart from the horseracing and
tin-hare reports, are the comic strips, Speed Gordon,
Mandrake the Magician, the syndicated story, slush
about “film stars,” the war-scare headlines and the
Astrology column. Of Australian sentiment they
haven’t a trace. They don’t ever talk Australian, and
the Senate election strongly suggests that they vote,
not for men or measures, but for letters of the
alphabet.
The net result is that there are more mugs about
than ever before. The generation that was young in
1893 learnt by harsh experience how many beans
make five. The men of the A.I.F. and the R.A.N.
astonished foreign observers, not all disposed to be
friendly, by their individuality no less than by their
physique and their aptitude for war. Twenty years
of “the pictures,” of the Stunt Press and the press-
agent, of nigger-dances, easy-money-worship and
childish games—and childish gabble about them —and
ten years of wireless blah have made an appalling
difference.
I am all for the free-library movement, and I
would welcome free public readings by cultured per-
sons with sympathetic voices, and also free orchestral
and band music in parks. Certainly a campaign
against ignorance and credulity has become one of the
great needs of the time. The thriftless mug is no asset
to any community, and masses of thriftless mugs are
a danger to a democratic Commonwealth.
More in It Than Whales.
“M.’s” .Southward, Ho! shout: —
Second sight and an outsize faith in the future of air trans-
port would have been required 10 years ago for the prediction
that Pacific islands not much bigger than respectable backyards
would become subjects of international negotiation in 1937-38.
The southward reach to Maoriland by Pan-American Airways
clipper-ships resulted in this happening last year in respect of
coral specks between Honolulu and Auckland. Now Grootc
Eylandt, nearer home, is being changed from a Gulf of Car-
pentaria place-name to an important base on the England-Aus-
tralia flying-boat route. These developments are enough to
indicate that territory once regarded -as useless can become
desirable.
Australia has a possession—about 3,000,000 square miles
of it —in the Antarctic which should be worth at least the
expense of exploration and riiapping.
At present Canberra has a vague idea that Antarctica is a
good place for whales, penguins and ice; and it isn’t interested
in the whales, though Norway and Japan seem to find them
profitable enough to pay dividends on the costly cruises of
factory-ships and chasers.
British explorers have left as many bones in Antarctica as
the men of any other country, and their expeditions have
achieved as much. The British Government and individual
British people backed the earlier parties; latterly, the Colonial
Office found the cash for a more thorough exploration of
Graham Land on the South American edge of the Antarctic.
Australia hasn’t so much as slaughtered a whale in its own
Antarctic sector.
Leader of the 1934-37 British expedition to Graham Land
was John R. Rymill, born in S. Australia in 1905 and edu-
cated i« Melbourne. The Colonial Office and the Royal
Geographical Society regard him as one of the best living
Antarctic explorers. Raymond Priestley, until recently Vice-
Chancellor of Melbourne University, and in other days
a member of Scott and Shackleton expeditions, suggests that
this Australian should be sent to the Antarctic by his own
country and in his own country's interests. Rymill would like
nothing better, and the Lyons Government should trivc him the
opportunity.
Clarence James Dennis.
A writer whose work cheers the soldiers in the
trenches deserves well of his country. Tennyson has
placed it on record that he had copies of “The Charge
of the Light Brigade” printed at his own expense and
sent to the warriors in the Crimea. Nobly as he
versified the wild gallop that was “magnificent, but
not war,” it is improbable that his lines were read
with anything like the delight that was inspired among
the Diggers by C. J. Dennis’s “Sentimental Bloke”
verses.
Dennis began writing them for The Bulletin
the year before the war, and they were published at
irregular intervals until April 15, 1915, when the Senti-
mental Bloke became a father. It has always been
The Bulletin’s practice to grant its contributors the
right of republication, and “The Sentimental Bloke”
reappeared in a book issued by Angus and Robertson.
An instant success, it went into many editions, and
brought Dennis a steady income, which was increased
when “The Sentimental Bloke” film was made —a
very good film, it should be said.
When he had got the Sentimental Bloke married
and settled, Dennis began writing “The Glugs of
Gosh” for The Bulletin. Though a capital satire in
easy verse, it was not so popular as “The Sentimental
Bloke” ; in fact, he never repeated his first success,
though as a writer of other books and as a contributor
to Melbourne “Herald” he had a public till the end.
A native of South Australia, which has given
many good writers to the Commonwealth, he died in
Victoria last week at 62.
While multitudes of Bulletin readers were won-
dering who “Den” was, and following with ever-
increasing interest the fortunes of the Bloke, Doreen
and Mar, these lines appeared over the looked-for
signature: —•
Oh, praise me now if you would please
My soul with soothing flatteries.
Praise with my living clay agrees:
’Tis sweet, I vow.
Give me kind words while I can feel
The modest blushes gently steal,
What time my virtues you reveal.
Oh, praise me now.
For, when the vital spark is fled,
No matter what kind words are said,
I’ll simply go on being dead
And take no heed.
Or if, perchance, beneath the clay,
I hear some kindly critic say,
“He was a boshter in his day!”
’Twere hard indeed.
’Twere bitter hard to be confined,
Gagged by grim Death, while fellows kind
Call my good qualities to mind,
And softly sigh.
I vow I’d writhe within my bier,
And strive to croak at least “Hear, Hear!”
For I have ever prized that dear
Right to reply.
Then, if you’re keen on praising me,
I’d rather be alive to see
And hear and feel the flattery,
And know ’tis true.
And when I rise to make reply
I fain would droop a modest eye
And by my halting speech imply
It is my due.
I do not want a monument.
Why should good money so be spent?
Nay, put it out at ten per cent.,
And when you save
Enough to purchase goodly fare,
Then spread me out a banquet rare.
No gift’s appreciated there,
Within the grave.
Oh, praise me now while I am here:
[n my attentive living ear
Pour adulation; never fear
I mind the row.
I love to hear you harp upon
Those dulcet strings. Play on, play on!
Do not delay until I’m gone,
But praise me now.
He never had to write in that serio-comic strain
again. A good craftsman and a good Australian, he
was admired for the rest of his days, and his verses
will remain part of the history of a stirring time.


“AND IT'S PRINTEO
with WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Mac Hoots”: By the bones and the
bagpipes of my ancestors, this is no
country for a ceevilised person. First
the High Court declares that the Gaelic
isn’t a language, and now a cable-clerk
at Sydney’s G.P.O. tells me that I can’t
send a cable in ordinary Scots. Wishing
to reprove an unco preposterous relative
I included the word “dumbfounded”
in a cable, spelling it as the 100 pipers
would like it “dumfoonered.” The
heathen at the counter said it wasn’t
English, or even good Scots. Correct, but
he added that Scots wasn’t a language,
and couldn’t be cabled except as a code.
One of these days we’ll be over the
border again.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Carl Linger, composer of the
“Song of Australia,” which S.A. recog-
nises (and tries to spread) as the Com-
monwealth’s best national anthem, had
a monument tardily put up to his mem-
ory in the West-terrace cemetery of Adel-
aide during the State’s centenary. The
“Advertiser” ran a fund which provided
for both its erection and upkeep. The
annual celebration just held brought
wreaths from sources as scattered as
the A.N.A. and the Mayor of Berlin.
# * *
“Der Jong”: I was interested in the
cabled account of the method used in
England to prepare a “doped” wicket
like that at Trent Bridge. A liquid mix-
ture of clay, marl and cow-manure is
spread over the pitch and rolled in. It
recalls the backveld Boer’s recipe for a
house floor. The foundation was anthill
clay and cowdung, well rammed; when
levelled, this was smeared over with bul-
lock’s blood. The combination made a
flooring which, besides being durable and
watertight, was far more comfortable to
the feet than the red concrete it so re-
sembled in looks.
* * * *
“H.W.”: For poverty in street nomen-
clature, give me Sydney. The Great
Bloat has 74 Park-streets, 55 Railways
and Shorts, 46 Williams, 43 Georges, 37
Churches, 34 Marys, 33 Elizabeths and
Johns, 32 Arthurs, Crosses, Jameses and
Kings, and 30 Carringtons, Edwards,
Gordons, Stations and Wentworths.
Queen Victoria and her Albert have in-
spired aldermen on 57 and 45 occasions
respectively, while Mr. Smith’s services
to the community have been commemo-
rated 26 times. It would be interesting
to know after whom the 19 Margaret-
streets were named. In all, 15,000 streets
share 3000 names among them.
* * * *
“S.A.D.”: Though Maoriland’s 90,000
returned soldiers may not look so im-
portant among a total male population
of some 800,000, there are enough of
them at the age generally associated with
influence in the community to say pretty
weightily at the November elections what
they think of Mr. Jordan’s belligerence
at Geneva. Among males between the
ages of 40 and 45, the proportion of
Diggers is over 60 per cent. The newly-
released census statistics inform me that
there are about 400 ex-warriors under
35 and 65 gallants of 80 or over, most
of whom fought in the Maori wars.
Nearly 1600 Diggers who served with
Australian units are living in M.L., and
238 of them are getting Mr. Savage’s
pensions.
* * * *
“Billy See”: Jury service a hardship,
“El V.” (B. 8/6/38)? It may be in
Queensland to the businessman with an
income of £’s per day, but in the West it
is benison to the likes of me. One of my
life’s landmarks is the ten days 1 spent on
“ That’s just what I’ve always said , ‘Once a sailor always a sailor.’ ”
a murder trial. Lodged at a good hotel
overlooking the Swan, with a chef with
an Irish name but certainly French an-
cestors. Midday meal at one of St.
George’s-terrace’s toniest cafes. Evening
walks, then the pub drawing-room at our
disposal, with wireless. Came Saturday
and no Court sitting: a fine launch to take
us a-fishing down and outside Fremantle
Harbor. Sunday, the cars from the Pre-
mier’s Department, to transport us 30
miles to the Yanchep Caves, both expedi-
tions supplied with hampers fit for a
king. One of our 12 had previously sat
on a trial of 30 days’ duration and had
received lifelong exemption from further
service: but he wasn’t saying nothin’.
* * * *
“Katie Keyboard”: Gee it’s funny the
way men kid themselves they’re the real
boss and the head of the house and all
that and how we girls are always admir-
ing them and making ourselves up to
get off with them. Because any girl
that’s got any brains knows that she
doesn’t lacquer her nails and use lipstick
and get her perm platinumed and stick
on those patent eyelashes so as to get a
boy to fall for her but because she likes
herself that way and she knows it makes
the other girls all as sick as cats to see
her looking smart. And as for boys only
wanting the girl for herself and not for
her make-up gee it does make me laugh
because boys never really know what
they do want a girl to be like till some
girl takes enough interest in them to
make them fall for her and then it’s that
girl they want make-up or not.
* * * *
“M* Turlutu”: “Lazy good-for-
nothing would like soft job. Apply
80x.... ” It appeared as a classified
ad. in a Brisbane daily. Among the
monotonous reiterations of the honest,
hardworking, reliable, trustworthy, tem-
perate, but still unemployed, it shone
out with all the warm human glow of a
bar-window on a cold, wet evening.
Sound psychology is behind such an
approach, if only in the awakening of a
possible employer’s curiosity. There was
a precedent in a southern city years ago,
when an even franker request from a
self-alleged born loafer who wanted pay
but no work evoked a whole mailbagful
of inquiries, and landed a job which led
aspirants' it’s wffl'S
repetition, * and °the fame ad. or some
thing very like it, has appeared in a
Sydney paper.
* * # #
* u -J77 ti. • m , 1 *
Ente Mar.d : It was in the cab ed
biography of the young lady from the
B B .C. who is to broadcast an account
Ans mlin - r ° me fly ' ng - b ° at tnp ‘°
Muriel is no novice, and has broadcast
„ Wl ? e ', , ,
Reminds me of an obituary we used to
recite in one of Australia’s first aerial
gliding clubs before the war: “Here lies
Bill Smith. He learnt to glide in one
lesson. R.1.P.”
* * * *
“Stoo”: “Landsman’s” pilot, im-
proving his mind with the Sydney
“Morning Herald” spread out over the
controls (B. 22/6/’3B), was safe enough ;
in good conditions a ’plane more or less
flies itself. At least he didn’t have to
worry about reckless drivers, speed
notices, cats, dogs, poultry, children and
bends in the road as should have been
the case with the motoring madman I
once saw with a newspaper spread out
upon the steering-wheel. The female who
chats ‘to passengers in the back seat and
the man who wanders all over the road
lighting his pipe are bad enough, but
that lad took the wooden crank-handle
in a canter.
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: “Ibn el Issar’s” de-
bunking of Winston Churchill’s assertion
that Lawrence of Arabia’s rail-severing
exploits saved Egypt (B. 15/6/’3B) is
corroborated by Lawrence himself. He
explains in his memoirs that his plan was
not to destroy the line, but to keep it
sufficiently intact to be a constant drain
on the Turk for men and' money to
maintain it. Moreover, the plundered
trains assuaged the thirst for loot of his
Arab army. His practice was to blow
up the line at bends, because curved rail
sections had to be brought all the way
from Damascus.
* * * *
“L.N.A.”: Sorry to have to throw a
brick at “Dungeness’s” affecting story
about the “Isles of Dreams” (B. 26/ 5/ ’3B),
but his facts are all awash. Hugo Brassey
did not sail across the world in his stout
little ship. He is still on Dunk Island,
and Dunk Island is not for sale. The
place attracts many holiday-makers, and
tourist ships call at Dunk every month.
An aerodrome is nearing completion.
A daily motor-boat service connects
Tully.
*.* * *
“Ente Marid”: Our grandmothers
would have stood aghast could they have
seen how little the world remembered
that June 28 was a centenary —that of
the coronation of the Old Queen, which
seems to have been a far gayer affair,
because unrehearsed, than the last one.
Greville, who was there, remarks that
“nobody knew what was to be done ex-
cept the Archbishop and the Duke of
Wellington.” But so far as was in his
power, Cantuar saw that it was done —
even to t h e forcing of the ruby ring on
the Q uee n’s third finger, though it had
be£n made in error for her little finger,
Th had tQ uge iced water to get it off .
An aged baron fell down on the steps
of the . throne, and Lord Surrey heaved
Coronation medals into the crowd of
peers and potentates m the Abbey and
everybody scrambled for them with all
their might and main,” especially “the
t Honor.” Greville remarks
h merit of this Coro-
. js s , hat s 0 much has been
done for the people: to amuse and
interest them seems to be the prin-
cipal o bj ect ” My grandfather, who was
on the spot, used to supply a sidelight
on that Oxford-street, which was off
the main route> was then being paved for
the first time w j t h wood blocks, and
many Cockneys replenished the wood-
j leap while the Law was watching the
procession crowds rather than join Mr.
Barney Maguire in seeing Queen Vic.
j n jj er p Ur pj e garments and a goulden Crown ;
Like Venus or Hebe or the Queen of Sheby,
With eight young ladies houlding up her gown,
* * * *
“Kohi”: An unpublished character
sidelight on C. J. Dennis. The very-sick
creator of The Sentimental Bloke was
adapting his opus for radio presentation
by a Vic. station. Not all the 26 sessions
had been completed, and Den evidently
didn’t favor his chances of surviving his
illness. But he knew just how he wanted
the rest of The Bloke to be broadcast,
and a synopsis for each unfinished session
reached the station the day before he
died.
From “Old Journalist”:
In a report of C. J. Dennis’s death, I read
that “No writer of light verse in this country
has approached Dennis, either in output or in
quality.” Wrong on one point; his output
has been vastly exceeded by that of Edwin
Greenslade (“Dryblower”) Murphy, of the
Perth “Sunday Times.”
Dennis began writing newspaper verse in
1902, and for at least half of the ensuing
36 years his Muse was silent. Murphy has been
doing his “Verse and Worse” column for the
“Sunday Times” since 1900, and for six years
before that he was a prolific contributor to the
Kalgoorlie “Sun” and to Billy Clare’s papers
in Coolgardie. He has rarely taken holidays,
and I wouldn’t mind wagering that he has
averaged two copies of verse per week for 40
years.
As for quality, I have worked on papers that
employed Murphy and Dennis, and 1 admire
both. While admitting that the one book of
Dennis’s that is remembered had a greater suc-
cess than Murphy’s Jarrahland Jingles, I
wouldn’t award him the palm as a writer of
light verse. And I am certain that he was
strongly influenced by the older man.
I used to read Dennis’s “Gadfly” and
Murphy’s “Sun” in • 1906, and I often fancied
that Dennis was imitating Murphy. In this
there is nothing derogatory to Dennis; nearly
all young writers imitate —consciously or uncon-
sciously—men who strongly appeal to them;
and Murphy’s work was—and still is—as racy
of its kind as anything written in Australia.
Nor would I place Dennis above W. T.
Goodge. Goodge he did imitate; his “Aus-
tralaise” would never have been written if
Goodge had not imagined that “stalwart —-
stockman apostrophising his -j — cuddy.”
The truth is that in Goodge, Murphy, Dennis
and The Bulletin’s “T. the R.” Australia has
had really first-class writers of vers de societe.
Long may the line continue!
AT RUSHCUTTER BAY.
At Sydney are various suburban resorts
Devoted to different popular sports.
The racegoer’s Mecca is Randwick, of course,
The temple and shrine of the deity Horse.
There are other arenas for patrons whose taste
Is for hard leather walloped or blown leather
chased,
Or who revel o’ nights in the bustle and din
Where the hounds are pursuing their quarry of
tin;
And the place where the wrestlers and bruisers
display
Their brawn and their prowess is Rushcutter
Bay.
’Tis here you may view the performance that
claims
Most likeness to gladiatorial games
That gladdened the Romans in long-ago years,
And listen to wilder and heftier cheers
And howls more expressive and raucous and
shrill
Than ever assaulted the ear from “The Hill,”
And sample anew the fierce joy that began
When man was first matched against primitive
man.
No art and no science is older to-day
Than those which are fostered at Rushcutter
Bay.
O sweet is the crack that the willow bestows
On the ball that perforce to the boundary
goes,
Or the tap of the footgear that sends from afar
The oval a-whizzing right over the bar;
But sweeter the sound in the Stadium joint
Of the sock in the plexus, the punch on the
point
Or the bellicose buffet that pugilists keep
For putting a rattled opponent to sleep.
All these and lots more they provide and purvey,
The scrappers who mix it at Rushcutter Bay.
And the wrestlers —those mountains of slippery
flesh,
How they grapple and hug! How they wriggle
and thresh,
Disdaining no natural aid that avails
In combat, including the teeth and the nails!
How they wade in like wildcats, conveniently
deaf
To the sharpest appeals from the scandalised
ref.,
Who risks, if his rulings resentment should
bring,
Being tossed like a sackful of spuds from the
ring.
Does it weary you tennis and bowls to survey?
Do' you yearn for more strenuous spectacles,
eh?
Then come and be happy at Rushcutter Bay.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“T.”: “Young people to-day are living
too fast and enjoying everything so
rapidly that they must become exhausted
and bored.” Thus a reverend lecturer
from Manchester. Perhaps the reverend
gentleman has been studying the case of
the Sydney youth, aged 15, who mar-
ried a girl three years older on the pro-
ceeds of the sale of his pushbike, first
giving his parents’ consent without
bothering to consult them. One of his
mates was spliced, he said, and why
shouldn’t he be? The Law bound him
over to be of good behavior for five
years ; and within a month he was at
the bride’s funeral. She had attended a
party at which one of the means of
recreation was a five-gallon keg of beer ;
the party over, she had gone out driving
with an iceman (another lady and gent,
were in the back seat and there were
beer bottles about) and had been
pitched out of the car after its unsuc-
cessful grapple with a petrol pump. The
widower was noticed at the inquest, and,
on the authority of his progenitor, is
“going to confirmation classes.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The dinner given by Yeats-
Brown in London to his fellow-author
and escapologist, Minister for Customs
White, recalls the widely different
methods each used to get out of Turk-
ish prisons. The Australian, a practical-
minded individual, learnt Turkish and
studied the habits and customs and
history of the country in all the
books he could get hold of, and his
escape depended on his understanding
of the psychology of his captors and the
topography of Constantinople. It took
“And I nearly left a pair of stockings to be mended there this morning!”
him most of the war to do it, but kept
him healthy. Yeats-Brown simulated mad-
ness, and for 18 months succeeded not
only in convincing the Turkish doctors
he was as crazy as a hatter but in filling
himself with doubts as to whether he
wasn’t really as mad as he made himself
out to be. White’s account of his escape
in Guests of the Unspeakable is a sober,
well-authenticated document. Yeats-
Brown’s half a dozen writings are an
extraordinary mixture of sense, romance
and superstition. Two more differently
constituted individuals it would be dif-
ficult to imagine, but both were excellent
prison-breakers.
/ * * * *
“Cauboy”: The latest issue of Federal
“Hansard” is enlivened by an illustration,
namely, a diagram of financial compli-
cations by Treasurer Casey. I have as a
doorstop some ancient copies of the Vic-
torian “Hansard,” and the extraordinary
dullness of the contents moves me to
suggest to Governments a method of mak-
ing these records more readable and even
bestowing immortality on them. Frith
should be engaged to decorate the mar-
gins of the N.S.W. register of political
births, deaths and marriages with his.
admirable lightning-sketches of Lang
destroying the dragon of reactionary
Capitalism ; Norman Lindsay should be
commissioned to contribute full-page
cartoons to the more-internationally-
minded Federal opus—pictures of Mr.
Lyons directing the Empire with one
hand while with the other he deftly
catches the spanners Mr. Hughes is
throwing into the machinery ; and Scor-
field could commemorate the domestic
trials and tribulations of that forgotten
individual the taxpayer.
* * * *
“S.”: Looking, rather like an illus-
tration to Coral Island of savages in a
war canoe, half a dozen gallant adven-
turers came paddling round Potts Point,
Sydney, in what looked like a washtub.
As they disappeared round the blue
corner 1 reflected on the gallant soul of
boyhood, until a flushed gentleman in
uniform came dashing along the water-
front, yearned across the bay, and told
me sadly that the boys had pinched his
punt. About 10 minutes later there was
that sickening sequel we all knew when
the neighbors caught us up the plum-
tree: a launch, in which sat two more
uniforated persons, towed the melancholy
punt back round the bend, and sporadic
cries of “We didn’t take it, Mister,”
floated across the water.
* * *
“Dhas”: Since I read Stephen Lea-
cock’s hilarious description of a gallant
who dashed to his horse, mounted, and
galloped wildly away “in all directions,”
the concluding phrase has always had a
humorous significance for me. Possibly
that clouded my judgment when reading
a new poet in the London “Mercury” ;
“Cad, sir, if I had my spurs on I’d make you travel !”
he was using the military jargon that
has become fashionable since poetry be-
came a species of political journalism,
and, after pondering a belligerent land-
scape of trees and hills, proffered the odd
spectacle
The army of grass is led in all directions.
So if I wake up one morning and see
the back lawn forming fours on the
bedroom floor and the aspidistra wing-
ing through the window on a parachute,
it’ll be comforting to know that it’s just
poetry, not what the doctor suspected last
time.
“Brix”: With several local burglaries
and episodes with undesirable callers in
the neighborhood on her mind, the left-
on-her-own lady of the house caught
sight of a particularly unpleasant-looking
specimen on her back landing. It was the
maid’s day out, and, clad in an overall
with her perm, done up in a blue hand-
kerchief, she was clearing up after
luncheon. She locked the back door and
interviewed him through the open win-
dow. “Sssh!” she whispered, “the boss
is having his afternoon sleep and it’s
as much as my place is worth to
have him woke up. Watcher
want?” He wanted food and
cash, a little information about
the family generally. “Well,
you’ll only waste y’ time asking
here,” said the lady emphati-
cally. “A meaner lot I never
worked for. Dock sixpence off
me wages fer any excuse at all.
And nothing in the house worth
tuppence. You keep quiet and
I’ll give yer a couple o’ tins o’
stuff. They won’t miss those.”
With two tins of provender the
visitor tiptoed off. As he re-
tired he remarked, “I dunno why
a smart girl like you stays with
such a mob.” But as no pro-
fessional cadgers have been
round since the lady has a grate-
ful feeling that he passed the
word along that her house was
one to be avoided by gentlemen
of the road.
“Underground”: Ruskin, in
that fine burst of mid-Victorian
idealism Unto This Last, urged
that in the life of every useful
man circumstances may arise
where he must put the respon-
sibilities of his vocation before
self-preservation. Such calls to
heroism come to the men who
hew coal oftener than to most of
us, and in the history of Aus-
tralian mining, at all events,
their high tradition has never
been sullied. Latest instance
was at Aberdare Central Col-
liery in N. S. Wales. An ava-
lanche of 400 tons of coal
overwhelmed two men. One was
killed; the other, saved from
death by a fortuitous jamming
of timbering, was pinned under-
neath the mass. His voice could
be heard, and without hesitation
his mates tackled the job of extrication,
though it was difficult and dangerous,
taking eight hours, and involving driving
a tunnel into the fall and timbering it.
Midway through the timbering collapsed
and the mine manager, Frederick Hem-
ingway, who led the digging party, had
both legs broken. Another worker had
a finger jammed off a little later, and two
others were injured by falling coal before
the rescue was effected.
“Pentecost”: 1 As “El V.” says (B.
22/6/’3B), it is hard to learn Arabic with-
out contact with Arabs. It is true of
all languages that six months among a
people, forced to speak their tongue,
is worth years of book-study and coach-
ing by teachers. In the good old days in
India—l understand it simply isn’t done
now —the way to learn was to set
up an establishment with a lady
wife taken from the surrounding popu-
lace. In this way subalterns in the
Indian army and young civilians acquired
a facility in Persian, Hindi and whatever
special tongue it was their business
to mug-up in no time. As, to
Arabic, there are at least four languages,
though few need go beyond the col-
loquial. Swahili is not difficult, but I
will back Zulu of all the lingoes I have
tried as the Becher’s Brook of linguistics.
It is not so much the vocabulary or
the construction —it is the mastering
of the infernal clicks which interlard
Zulu speech, sounds which not one while
in a dozen ever comes near acquiring.
“Miro”: Landlords have threatened to
remove the roof from a dwelling in order
to get rid of unwanted tenants; I saw
it done once. A M.L. farmer gave the
bad-paying occupiers of a two-roomed
house notice to quit; they declined to
budge, so, as the roof required renewing,
the owner, one day the tenants were in
town, had it taken off. Tempestuous
weather came, but the tenants were dry.
A curious owner got a ladder and had a
quiet look over. Explanation—a bor-
rowed tent comfortably set up inside.
At latest reports it was still there—and
occupied.
* * * *
“Beaubeste”: One explanation of the
apparent decline in female face value
(B. 22161'M) commented on by “D.E.”
is that men are really much better-
looking than women, and “D.E.” has
only awakened to that fact. Men
appear drab in comparison with women
simply because they are not so dressy ;
but dress women as men dress, and give
them a man’s haircut, and compel them
to go unpainted—and have your eyes
opened. Actually men as a rule have
better eyelashes, better eyebrows and
better complexions than women, and
in the average family of boys and girls
you’ll find more handsome brothers than
sisters. It’s only the stuff written about
women that makes it appear they are
the “fair” sex. Man, like other animals
and birds, started out to be the attrac-
tive sex, and then women did the choos-
ing. But as soon as man entered upon
the choosing business women began to
try to make themselves as attractive as
possible—and now look!
FUR AND FEATHERS.
“Beautiful furs were worn by the majority of the
women who attended the opening- of the N.S.W.
Parliament.”
Beautiful furs, beautiful furs /
Enveloped the dames of Misters and Sirs
Who came in their radiant rags to set
A mark on the day when Parliament met,
Pelts from the furriers’ choicest stocks
Of mink and musquash and silver fox;
Even the humble rabbit, perhaps,
Figured (disguised) on the winter wraps.
There’s naught the feminine fancy stirs
Like furs, furs, beautiful furs.
In the resume of the glad shivoo
I find some mention of feathers, too,
Of hats with the extra charm that counts
In aigrette trimmings and ostrich mounts.
Thus the beasts of chase and the birds of air
Combine, as ever, to deck the fair
Since Eve and Adam, poor sinners, fell
From Eden rambles an naturel,
And she scrapped the figleaf that erst, was hers
For furs and feathers, feathers and furs.
You may only look on the real things
When the curtain’s raised for our Ninety Kings
Below, and the Sixty more atop,
To do their stuff in the Talking Shop.
But I’ll wager the other sort will fly
In the none-too-distant by-and-bye
When Stevens, cooking the Labor goose,
Makes Baddeley bellow and Lang cut loose.
There’ll be plenty then, unless I err,
Of fur and feathers, feathers and fur.
N.S.W
IFORD.


20/orl 6
10 for 9 d
WIBB4
All over the world Craven
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality.
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
CIGARETTE
THIS
nan
O F
GENE R A T
m
POLITICAL POINTS
The Senate was reminded last week by
its regulations and ordinances committee
that the crazy trade-diversion policy was
introduced and abandoned without refer-
ence to Parliament, the oracle having
been worked by regulation. Did the
House of Review do anything to assert
its outraged authority? It did not. On
the contrary, it humbly obliged the Gov-
ernment by sitting on Saturday so that
the National Incubus Bill might be shoved
through before the 11 Senators elected
in October could have a cut at it.
It was reserved for Duncan-Hughes
(S.A.), who, though retiring from the
Senate to-morrow, is not one of the
defeated lot, to point out that, under
the National Incubus Bill, newly-arrived
aliens —perhaps slushies in Greek fish-
shops—will be better off than struggling
farmers and “self-employed” bushmen.
Bertie Johnson (W.A.) tried to get
farmers who have no taxable income
and will receive no Incubus benefits
exempted from the obligation to pay
Is. 6d. a week for each employee. His
amendment was defeated, and so —in a
spirit of ignorant hostility—was one de-
signed to let insurance cos. come in as
“approved societies.”
Pearce “accepted the Government’s
assurance” that it will provide somehow
for “self-employed” person who, though
off the list of beneficaries, are to be
stung for National Incubus taxes, even
when they are too poor to pay taxes
on their own account. Pearce would
accept anything from this Government,
even an unnecessary job at £2OOO p.a.
that will keep him going till he is rising
76.
Save that arranged-for shipments of
89,000 tons to Japan and 69,000 tons
to the U.S.A. will be permitted, under
license, to December 31, the embargo
on iron-ore exports will come into force
on Friday. According to the Gov-
ernment, Dr. Woolnough’s report is ex-
press: there is so little iron-ore in Aus-
tralia that it would be a crime against
this nation to spare other nations a ton.
The latest is that Dr. Woolnough has
gone to Yampi “to carry out an intensive
survey of the deposits there”—in other
words, to collect the evidence on which
the embargo is based.
Returned to business at the old address,
N.S.W. Leg. Councillors growled that
while they were in recess the Transport
Department gazetted a taxi-cab resolution
which in substance was the same as one
their House had vetoed. One indignant
gentleman said:
I feel that the House will disallow this
infamous regulation as it did its predecessor.
But isn’t there such a thing as contempt
of Parliament nowadays, or is this N.S.W.
Parliament just a sham and Government
by regulation the real thing?
The two alleged N.S.W. Labor parties
held conferences at the week-end, and
Lang’s lot was also engaged in the
Assembly by-election for Coogee. Its
man did no better than the last Langster
who went up against the late Dunning-
ham—in 1935 ; and one of the U.A.P.
“quins” will win. In all probability it
will be Tom Mutch, who was pushed out
of the “old” Labor party by Lang. It
was time the U.A.P. did something for
Mutch.
In office since 1933, when there were
153 members (there are 138 now), De
Valera’s Fianna Fail has gained an abso-
lute majority at last; and the agreement
with Chamberlain did the business.
Fianna Fail won 77 seats in ’33, 69 in ’37
and 77 in ’3B. The Cosgrave party’s
numbers have been 48 in ’33, the same
in ’37 and 45 in ’3B ; Labor’s 8, 13 and 9.
One of the four Laborites who lost their
seats was Jim Larkin, whose brother was
an I.W.W. in Australia.
Australian Glass says it is getting all
the feldspar it uses from Westralia and
it is the finest feldspar in the world. That
is good to read, and it is also good to
reflect that the people having refused
to wipe out the inter-State freetrade
part of the Constitution the Lyons
Government can’t put an embargo on it.
A Greek tramp was bombed in the
port of Valencia last week, and on the
same day Lloyd George demanded
“action” against the Fascists (there seem
to be about 175,000,000 in Europe alone).
When Lloyd George was Prime Minister,
Britain backed the Greeks against the
Turks, and only Tommy Atkins’s good
"Ve pay-a da fees, ve fly-a da flag, an' dey no protect us ven ve mak-a da mon’.
I SPEET on da Breetish Navy.”
temper prevented its being dragged into
another war. There will be no more
.backing of Greeks for Lloyd George or
even for pro-Greek Sydney newspapers.
In 10 years road accidents have caused
11,582 deaths and 188,000 injuries in the
Commonwealth. Last year’s figures were
the worst —1387 deaths and 22,940 in-
jured. A fair-sized war used to take less
toll; in fact, two years’ hard campaign-
ing in South Africa cost the 16,000
Australians 1400 casualties in killed,
wounded, “missing and prisoners” and
deaths from disease — they numbered 267.
Still keen on Dunstan and now alarmed
for his political future, Melbourne “Age”
praises the Premier’s efforts to put bees-
wax or something on the Vic. C.P. split,
“due more to personal incompatibilities,”
it asserts, “than to genuine differences
over principles.” The efforts, such as they
are, have failed. By way of showing that
the Liberal Country group has come to
stay and is prepared for all eventualities,
its secretary announces that all its mem-
bers are to be insured against accidents
and other things.
Lloyd George seems to have been down
on Neville Chamberlain from the be-
ginning. In his memoirs he describes
how they became associated in his Min-
istry.
Mr. Neville Chamberlain was invited
to become Director of National Service.
At the time of the appointment I had never
seen him, and knew very little about him.
It was not one of my successful selections.
The bitter old gentleman’s “successful
selections” included Barnes, Hodge, Lord
This and Lord That and others who made
fast time fading out.
“There is no foundation for the sug
gestion that British ships have been carry-
ing arms or munitions to Spain,” said
Chamberlain last week. That is reassur-
ing, though it is doubtful whether the
P.M. spoke or would speak in such ex-
press terms of Greek- or Russian-manned
tramps flying the British flag. In the case
of the Stancroft two cable services con-
flict. One says the charge of carrying
war material was dismissed because a
prima facie case was not made out; the
other that it failed because it was held
at Gibraltar that the Merchant Shipping
Act does not apply to traffic between
Spanish ports.
S.A. people continue to worry the
party organisations by electing Indepen-
dents. For the Leg. Council seat (South-
ern District) left vacant by the death of
old McCallum, the L.C.L. put up Hunt,
who was Assembly member for Albert
in the last Parliament, and Premier Butler
went campaigning for him. The electors
chose an Independent, Bagot, giving him
a 500 majority. Out of 40 seats, Assem-
bly and Council, contested this year, In-
dependents have won 16.
“No man is a hero to his valet,” but
every Minister seems to be a hero to his
private secretary. On the “unimpeach-
able authority” of the Murdoch group’s
Canberra man, Casey is a demigod to
his. Another Minister’s typist was in
hospital and Casey’s private secretary
went to see her.
Finding she had nothing to read, he
promised to send her something good.
Next day there was delivered to her a copy
of Mr. Casey’s second-reading speech on
the National Insurance Bill.
The story breaks off there, so the reader
is left wondering whether the funeral was
a “No flowers, by request” one, or
whether the lady made a swift recovery
in case the private secretary sent her all
Casey’s speeches.
On two things Ministry and Opposition
at Canberra are beautifully unanimous
—(1) that Ministers and members should
be paid on the 1920 scale, and (2) that
national training and service—the policy
of all the parties down to 1914 —are
abominations. Greatly to its credit, the
Tasmanian Labor Conference passed a
universal-training resolution; this has
been denounced by the Federal executive
of the party organisation as “a breach
of the platform and policy.” Since the
“Tories,” as led by Lyons, are of the
same mind, this repudiation of the sturdi-
est stride towards nationalism that any
Labor party has taken since 1917 has not
even the sorry merit of being vote-
birdlime.
At the crisis of 1931, the Government
at Canberra leaned heavily on Alfred
Davidson, of the ’Wales, and he gave it
excellent advice. He advises it now to
drop its notion of meddling in banking,
saying that if the trading banks are, as
is clumsily proposed, required to make
large cash deposits in the Common-
wealth Bank they will have to reduce
advances.
The extent to which this would have to
be carried would produce a serious depres-
sion. The prospect is much more gloomy
in the face of falling export prices and the
effects of drought.
If the Government hasn’t taken leave of
its senses it will heed thjs sober warning,
even if it means risking a few votes.
One of those bright boys writes to the
.Sydney “D.T.” from England:
“What is to be done?” Lenin asked it
in a famous pamphlet when things were
going wrong for him. He answered it suc-
cessfully.
Of course he did. Even as the Chinese
Reds were (in the “D.T.”) “masters of
mobile warfare over a shifting front”
(they seem to have shifted half across
Asia by this time), and the Reds at
Guadalajara consummated “the greatest
feat of arms the world has ever seen.”
But Chamberlain is different.
Mr. Chamberlain better ask it, too,
and find the answer. The Government is
losing one by-election after another.
These losses are building up into a gigantic
political snowball.
The truth is that the Chamberlain Gov-
ernment has lost only three seats, in each
case by 'a rather small majority; and
that in three recent by-elections Con-
servatives have securely held Conserva-
tive seats. In the last, Stafford, the party
majority was increased.
Since the “D.T.” quotes Lenin, The
Bulletin doesn’t see why it shouldn’t
quote Mrs. Snowden’s account of a talk
she had with that Mongoloid dictator.
A thoroughly trustworthy journalist, Lord
Riddle, reported it.
She asked, “What course do you take
with the peasants who have property?”
Lenin said, “Oh, we deal with them quite
easily. We stir up against them peasants
who have no property, and then [laughing
heartily] they are very soon murdered.”
“It was most revolting,” said Mrs.
Snowden, “to hear him saying this and
laughing heartily at the same time.”
That sickened the level-headed Snow-
dens of Marxian dictatorships.


v NOW, Vou Will, give the Wife >v
A GOOD REFERENCE WOK-T YOU ?
?
GETTING A REFERENCE FOR THE MISSUS.
“A chronic shortage of domestics in Canterbury, M.L., has led to mistresses asking girls about to leave to give THEM references.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capita] Authorised .. .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. ■.. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . .
£1.250.000
1,000,000
1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
112 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
FREEDOM FROM REPAIRS
DEPENDS DN SPANNING PIDGS
DEPEND ON Champions
You are more likely to avoid engine repairs
if you install new Champions every year.
Champions allow less carbon to form. They
keep engine power steady, reducing strain
,and wear. And they save fuel.
An Empire product
made in Windsor, Canada
32
/
,/ /
viViUU
UVxUUuUUU
uuuUU*
*ZZZ£B&&”
rSil
m
i^mtmmassssA
RE-VITALIZE
YOUR CAR
WITH
Champions
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
An almost-forgotten Senator arrived
in Canberra last week, presumably to
vote for the National Incubus Bill
Massy-Greene. In name he is a Senator
from N.S.W., but he lives in Melbourne,
and he has attended the debates so
seldom in the last couple of years that
people Who have taken up residence
there in that period hardly knew him. But
for his unexpected defeat for Richmond
in 1922, Massy-Greene would have been
P.M. instead of Bruce. His political
career would have had a better finish
had he resigned from the Senate when
he resigned from the Government in
October, 1933.
Capt. H. S. Nicholas is outward-bound
and Capt. W. R. Clack berths as new
Fremantle (W.A.) harbor- and berthing-
master. Clack was born in Yorkshire,
and first breathed salt as a cadet on the
875-ton barque Scottish Knight in 1891.
He made two voyages in her to Australia,
and was then transferred to the New
Guinea, trading between N.S.W. and
W.A. Landed his first command when
he took over the Cloncurry in 1902,
delivered her to Japanese buyers at Kobe
the following year, and mastered several
other cargo and passenger ships on the
Australian coast. In 1916 he joined the
Fremantle pilot service, and became chief
pilot in 1920.
Dick Radclyffe, the Young Nats.’ sec-
retary, who told Melbourne Women’s
National Leaguers that the Lyons Gov-
ernment needs a “highly-mechanised
standing army of 10,000 men” instead
of its present militia force of 35,000,
speaks from experience of two wars and
a rebellion. Born in England in 1881,
he went to South Africa with Paget’s
Horse, a cavalry unit that didn’t see a
horse until three weeks before it was
ordered up-country to meet the Boers ;
“so I know what happens when untrained
men go into war,” he says to-day. Join-
ing the Mounted Constabulary in Trans-
vaal, he took part in the 1906 Zulu
rebellion. The next year he came to Aus-
tralia. Radclyffe was on a business trip to
Maoriland when the 1914-18 war began ;
he joined the 4th N.Z.E.F. reinforce-
DICK RADCLYFFE.
ments in 1915, and some Maorilanders
will remember him as M.L.O. at Suez
until they moved on to France. For a
while he farmed a Mildura (Vic.) section,
and then, when Bob Menzies and Kent
Hughes started Vic.’s Young Nats., he
became first full-time sec. in 1930.
A long connection with the Bank of
N.Z. has been severed by the retirement
from the directorate of William Watson,
DR. BRUCE M. CARRUTHERS,
Director of Public Health in the Speck.
92-year-old native of Sutherlandshire. He
was president of the bank when Seddon
came to its aid in the crisis of 1894, and
remained its head for four years there-
after. Ever since he has been share-
holders’ representative on the board. He
commenced his banking career nearly
three-quarters of a century ago as a
cadet in the Caledonian, was the Oriental
Bank’s Shanghai manager for a while,
and was chief inspector of the long-dead
Colonial of N.Z. when that institution
got into low water. Haled before a Select
Committee of Parliament, William flatly
refused to disclose the affairs of the
bank’s clients, and was fined £5OO (which
the bank paid). The same dogged loyalty
has marked his representation of ordi-
nary shareholders’ interests in the N.Z.
Some July birthdays:
Prof. Bernard Heinze (Melb.), 44, on Ist;
Frank Strahan (P.M.’s Dept., Canberra), 52,
on 2nd; N.S.W ; Senator Macartney Abbott,
61, painter Erqest Buckmaster, 41, and Theodore
Fink (Melb.), $3, on 3rd; Bishop Elsey (Kal-
goorlie), 58, and former Speck Premier Mc-
Phee, 60, on 4th; Lauri Kennedy, 40, on sth;
N.S.W. Senator John Armstrong, 30, Tom
Dunbabin, 55, Gov.-Gen. Lord Gowrie, 66,
former Vic. C.J. knight Wm. Irvine, 80, and
Judge Perdriau (N.S.W.), 54, on 6th; pianist
Percy Grainger, 56, Alfred Wunderlich (Syd.),
73, and George Main (chairman, A.J.C., Syd.),
59, on Bth; Vic. Agent-Gen. A. L. Bussau, 54,
Justice Milner Stephen (N.S.W.), 68, knight
Frederick McMaster, 65, and Dame Enid Lyons,
on 9th; Prof. Woodruff (Melb.), 61, and David
Watkins, M.H.R. (Newcastle), 42, on 10th;
Biig.-Gen. Lachlan Wilson (Bris.), 67, N.S.W.
Sec. for Railways W. D. Newman, 49, and
naturalist A. H. E. Mattingley (Vic.), 68, on
11th; Roland Foster (N.S.W. Con. of Music),
59, on 12th; Oscar Seppelt, (S.A.), 65, on 13th;
N.S.W. Govt. Statist Waites, 64, former S.A.
Premier Crawford Vaughan, 64, and Prof. Peter
MacCallum (Melb.), 53, on 14th; Lloyd Dumas
(Adel. “Advertiser”), 47, and Dr. J. A. L. Wal-
lace (Syd.), 62, on 15th; Prof. R. L. Dunbabin
(Tas.), 69, on 16th; J. A. Henderson (gen.
man. Aust. Metrop Life Ass. Co.), 65, and
novelist Christina Stead, on 17th; Sydney Muni-
cipal Librarian C. H. Bertie, 63, Dr. Harold
Davies (Elder Prof, of Music, Adel.), 71, F. M.
Forde, M.H.R. (Capricornia), 48, May Holman,
M.L.A. (W.A.), and bibliographer Percival Serle,
61, on 18th; W.A. Govt. Statist Sam Bennett,
60, on 19th; Prof. J. B. Brigden, 51, and J. F.
Ward (Prince Alfred Coll., Adel.), 55, on 20th;
knight Edward Cunningham (Melb. Argus ),
79, and knight Edward Fancourt Mitchell,
83, on 21st; N.S.W. Parliamentary Librarian
Quinn, 59, Judge Marked, 53, and Prof. Lambie
(Syd-), 47, on 24th; knight Harold Gengoult
Smith (Melb.), 48, and Bishop Moyes (Armi-
dale), 54, on 25th; Justice Crisp (Speck), 64.
S.A. Crown Solicitor Hannan, 51, Frank
Villeneuve Smith (Adel.), 54, David Picken
tOimond Coll., Melb.), 59, and novelist Hen-
rietta Drake-Brockman, on 27th; Randolph
Bedford, 70, J. V. Fairbairn, M.H.R. (Flinders),
41, Judge Foster (Vic.), 52, Vic. Govt. Statist
Gawler, 49, knight George Kelly (Aust. Wool
Board), 47, and actress Marie Lohr, on 28th;
F. S. Mance (Syd.), 66, on 30th: and medico-
knight Alexander MacCormick, 82, on 31st.
William Lindsay, Scotch and proud of
it, though a good Australian for some
25 years, is the - new Architect-in-Chief
of S.A. A. E. Simpson, who retires,
leaves many monuments in Adelaide,
notably the Education Building, the
new Art Gallery (Australian-Greek), the
Teachers’ Training College (ltalianate),
and the great hospitals out at Northfield
(modern and utilitarian).
Australian by adoption, though a Lon-
doner born and for some time a sojourner
in the U.S.A., Anthony Michell was re-
cently honored by Melbourne Uni., which
conferred upon him the Kernot Memorial
Medal for high engineering achievement.
Michell, one of the few scientists in this
part of the globe who can tack F.R.S.
after his name, is the inventor of the
Michell thrust block, which decimates
friction, and has been saving coal on
steamers for 33 years. He has also to his
credit a crankless (slant-plate) engine. He
graduated at Melb. Uni. in 1895, and
gained his M.C.E. at the same institution
four years later. Turned 68 last week.
Harold Bayard Piper, lately elevated
to the Arbitration Court Bench, is an
Adelaide barrister who has the law in'
his blood, being the son of Justice Piper,
of the S.A. Supreme Court. The new in-
dustrial Judge has practised extensively
ift S.A. courts, and was chairman of the
S.A. Royal Commission on betting laws
and practices in 1937. Educated at Prince
Alfred College, Adelaide, he was ad-
mitted to the Bar in the year in which
Judge PIPER.
he became a voter. Enlisted with A.I.F.
in the same year, 1915, and served in
Egypt and France till the end. He is
vice-president of the Law Soc. of S.A.
and a member of State committee of
the Law Soc. Has lectured on law in
Adelaide Uni., and in 1935 was chairman
of S.A. law committee on lotteries.
Forty-four last birthday.
Westralian philanthropist Charles Mc-
Ness is dead in Perth at 85. He made
his pile in Perth real estate, and was
knighted for giving lumps of it away.
Unlike his much greater contemporary
Septimus Burt, he took the newspapers
into his confidence.
A picturesque Maoriland Laborite is
D. W. Coleman, who has established a
M.L. municipal record by being l elected
Mayor of Gisborne for a fifth term.
Coleman, who has been twice re s ur £ e “
as district M.P., ran a second-hand shop
C.J. DENNIS
As Low saw him. An appreciation
appears on page 13.
named after Noah’s craft for many years,
and is, of course, referred to as “the
politician who came out of the Ark.’
He is a Salvationist.
To make a mining field flourish into
an Eden complete with apple-trees
thousands of them —was the life-work
of Oswald C. Barberie, Batlow’s pioneer
orchardist, dead at 77. Born in Bright
(Vic.), he came to mine-pitted Reedy
Flat, as Batlow (N.S.W.) was then called,
as the schoolie. The basaltic soil so
impressed him with its fertility that he
resigned from chalk and cane and took
up 300 acres a mile out from the settle-
ment. This had to be cleared, and all
produce had to be dragged by horse-
teams over mountain bush-tracks to the
nearest railhead, Gundagai, 40 miles
away. The rail came finally to Batlow,
where Barberie had carved out the
famous Mayday Orchards. His success
inspired the whole area, and modern
Batlow now has a cool-store capable of
handling the district’s annual yield of
150,000 cases of apples and pears.
Best known for his pasture work in
N. S. Wales, A. W. S. Moodie, lately
lifted a peg in the agrostologist section
of the State’s Department of Agriculture,
has made himself an adept in the major
art of grassing golf courses; he has
even written a handbook on it, and is
altogether well qualified for his honorary
membership of the Greenkeepers’ Asso-
ciation. A Sydney native, he gathered
diplomas in dairying and agriculture at
Hawkesbury.
Solicitor P. E. Tighe, of Ballina, N. S.
Wales, who has been battling for years
to have his home town fitted with a deep-
sea port, has had a versatile political ex-
perience. He was a Bartonite in the final
battle for Federation; stood for North
Sydney in 1908 and for a country con-
stituency in 1912, both on the Labor-
ticket. The conscription split took him
out of that galley. Tighe has done good
public service as umpty-times Mayor of
Ballina, president of the Northern Rivers
Chambers of Commerce and founder and
organiser of the Richmond River Harbor
Development League. Sixty-eight next
birthday, he was a schoolmate at Newing-
ton of Judge Curlewis, Master in Equity
Parker and Herbert Maitland.


Here is an actual size
illustration of the handy
flat bottle.
- "WW
a*
AWARDED
,50 MEDALS 7 #
*— i
4
H
Perth
50 Golb
anil
PmeMfcWb
>■?
rs?fi
■ J
5O GoU
an&
/Wtalsf
I#
>*«
üBUB c "
BY APPOINTMENT
&&WSUIS COOKERY FOOD MELBOURNE INTERNATIONAL °x7=J
1904
OD
>
mm
.-i\/., <>■-
1900
Ml
168?
a
ia9o
1888
1889
1888
1888
1888
1889 1889
1889
1889
White Label
A Fine Scotch Whisky
OF RARE AGE
JohnDewar&SonsL-
DISTILLERS
lonficm Off lfts pERTH (
Dt ®«r House Hagmarkrt. S.W.I.
NET CONTENTS I PINT, 6FL .OZS.
GUARANTEED WHOLLY DISTILLED AND MATURED IN SCOTLAND
SCOTLAND.
DEWARS
WHITE LABEL
SCOTCH M/tulkij
“White Label” meets
with immediate approval
Connoisseurs everywhere have been
quick to realise that there really is
something different in the character
of “White Label” - something which
%
emphasizes its outstanding purity
and ripe old age and makes it the
leader over all Scotch Whiskies. You
too will find this evident in the very
first drink of this great Dewar
product. Try it - now!


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Connor, of the sudden
temper, had a selection in the Sunset
country south of Underbool (Vic.). One
dry summer he had us carting water —10
trips of 18 miles each to fill the 2000 gal.
tank, three trips a day. He opened his
last tin of salmon for our tea, and had
come .out to watch us bale in the last
few gallons. Suddenly he rushed inside ;
a black cat dashed out and jumped on
the tankstand. It was removing salmon
from its whiskers when Connor came
out with a d.-b. 12-bore. Bang! Bang!
The cat vanished, and a great hole in
the tank belched water. With bagging,
rope and harvester-grease we managed
to save about half the water; then,
drenched and jveary, we went in to eat
—to find the cat blithely licking the
salmon plate clean.
* V ❖ *
“The 0.D.”: Old Jimmy was given the
job of rebuilding the bridge in the fire-
box of the big boiler. That night he
was missing. A search party, hearing
noises in the boiler, discovered two feet
on the outside of the bridge. Jimmy’s
trowel had fallen through, he’d over-
reached and couldn’t get back. He re-
covered, but keeps well away from steam-
plants of any kind.
H* jJ*
“Snake Charmer”: Various pad-
floggers having nominated their entries
for the worst walking in the outback,
now let me nominate the best —the rail-
way track. But it takes two to do it —one
on each rail and with a nice handy stick
held between to preserve balance. With
a little practice a couple of bagmen can
lay the miles behind them. But be
watchful for trains from behind!
* t * *
“Trax”: We had just finished replac-
ing a telephone-line in our s.-w. Q. dis-
trict. The four new wires glittered in
their newness. The old line near by
didn’t have a wire on it, and the posts
were old, weatherbeaten, discolored and
vague. Then a flock of a thousand or
two budgerigars came sweeping along.
They were, 'as usual, tight-packed, going
like blazes. When they came to where
the old line had been they rose as one
bird, swung as if commanded by one
mind, went over the wire that wasn’t
there and dropped to their old travelling
level again. And a hundred yards further
oa that phalanx of birds hit the new wires
with sickening “twangs,” and a dozen
or more fluttering heaps of feathers
dropped to the ground as the rest of the
mob advanced the accelerator a notch or
(wo and disappeared from sight.
* #
“Gryllus”: Many a Queensland
country boy is rejoicing over the out-
lawing of bee-eaters, with a price of 4d.
on their pretty heads. Added to spar-
rows, starlings, crows and currawongs,
they provide a welcome addition to the
pickcher-money, and bounty-collectors
attending the council office can always
be identified by the smell of their grue-
some trophies. A flying-fox roost means,
at 3d. per head, a regular income to its
lucky finders. Except for wealthy owners
of airguns or pea-rifles, the hunting-gear
comprises mousetraps for spadgers and
starlings, snares of various kinds, from
horsehair to fine wire, and the universal
shanghai. For flying-foxes asleep in
their roosts slings are the approved
weapons, and where they are really thick
marksmanship need not be as accurate
as David’s. But new methods seem to
be developing—one neighbor’s hopeful
nearly burned the place down trying
to make birdlime from linseed oil boiled
on the kitchen stove when mum was out.
* * * *
“G.A.S.'’: Saw a spider busily spinning
his web with only four legs. An acci-
dent had robbed him of the four mem-
bers all down the right side. He was
working efficiently, if a trifle clumsily.
# * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: It’s not only
Maori wahines (B. 28/5/’3B) who fancy
piglets as pets. The fashion is carried to
an extreme among certain Papuan ladies
of the inland, who go so far as to carry
a baby to port and a piglet to starboard,
each contentedly sucking at a breast slung
over the appropriate shoulder. Such
favored animals are adopted by
the family, and have been causes
of wars. Even 20 years ago D’uani,
aged about 20, told me that it
wasn’t on account of any girl’s
desire for trophies that he had
committed murder and mayhem
on certain citizens of the village
“ Surely , Herbert, you dont expect me to drink after YOU
without wiping the bottle!”
across the range, but because they had
foully slain his foster-brother Eeadroomie
by magic. Eeadroomie turned out to be a
vast and obese boar who had probably
died of overfeeding. I hadn’t realised
till then how long pigs lived, even in the
necessarily uncertain conditions of a
Papuan hill village. How long do the
brutes live, anyhow, in civilised surround-
ings?
* * * * *
“Hanko”: “Quercus’s” baked goanna
(B. 15/6/’3B) and'such other spurious
provender that must be plugged with
onions, eggs, bacon, herbs, etc., to make
it palatable makes me sigh for something
that is flavorsome of its own entity—
night-parrot. Take a couple of three-
quarter-grown birds, pluck and clean
them and grill slowly over a fire of
sandalwood chips. That is a luxury dish.
ijc $ sic #
“Mandurah”: Some creatures seem
born to cussedness. Witness the shark.
With line-fishermen industriously hauling
in snapper, jewfish, skipjack, the sea-
lawyer happens along and grabs a bait
intended for his betters. If a big fellow
he simply breaks the line and gets away,
or, failing that, straightens the hook out.
If small enough to be handled he, instead
of coming on board like a decent fish,
shoots off at a tangent, gathering up and
tangling every line on that side of
the boat. But that is a trifle. Running
to the end of his tether he shoots back
—and always around the anchor line,
for by some cussedness a hooked shark
always runs off against the flow of the
sea. Disengaged from the anchor line
and brought aboard after much hard
labor, the tiger refuses to stay put;
simply takes possession of the boat. Few
things are livelier than a medium-sized
shark landed in a small boat; it’s some-
thing like a boa constrictor animated by
half-a-hundred electric springs. The only
remedy is a severe crack on the nose,
with a hammer for preference.
❖ * *
“Walkabout”: “Man Cook” (B.
1/6/’3B) must have taken his “mighty
fine drinks’ on claypans other than those
down the Marree (S.A.) track. There,
under a sun that could hardly have been
hotter, I first sampled my drop of stuff
so awful that in those parts a thirsty
dingo will perish rather than lap it up.
* * sis *
“Turoar”: “Talkin’ erbout straight
roads reminds me uv the time me an’
Tarry Tom got stonkered down at Bir-
noo,” Old Bob said. “It’s thirty mile
frum our place, an’ the road runs dead
north an’ south an’ not er bend any-
where. We druv down in Tarry’s ole
car. When the barman says ‘Time,
gents,’ we ain’t in no fit state ter drive
’ome. Tarry’s seein’ roads ev’rywhere,
an I’m justis bad. But we got ernough
savvy left ter know we can’t tackle driv-
in’, an’ we’re wunnering wotinell ter do
when Tarry gits er nidea. ’E remembers
the road’s straight all the way. So what
we does we gits a bloke ter face the car
fer ’ome, thin we empties the tank an"
puts back just ernough ter take us the
thirtv mile. Then we lashes the wheel.
sits ’er goin’, ’ops inter the back seat an’
goes ter sleep. It works all right, too,
only when we wakes up we’re stopped
fifteen mile past our joint an’ gotter ’oof
il all the way back fer more juice. Tarry,
reckins we put in ’arfer-gallon too much
down at Birnoo. Cripes, we musta bin
shot!”
* * * * *
“Hoppy”: Those fellows who are argu-
ing about marks in trees growing up
staying at the same level should take a
trip out from Duchess to the ’Dangie
(W.Q.). At the Mosman, which gets its
name from the inspector of the native
police of that name who made it his
headquarters, they’d find evidence
enough. High up in the fork of a gum,
30 or more feet from the ground, there’s
the old ridgepole of a tent that Mosman
used. In addition to the pole, which is
now partly absorbed by the tree, there
are also axe-marks and scarfs about the
fork, showing those grew up with it.
* * * *
“Waranbini”: If no native tree in the
back-country is quick-growing enough to
provide shade for sheep on the Barkly
Tableland (B. 8/6/’3B), the pepper-tree
will fill the bill. It grows quickly any-
where, even in the desert, and puts on a
thick spreading head of foliage. Slower
of growth, but equally useful, are the
whitewood (one of these will shelter 50
sheep), lapunya and bauhinia. The two
latter can' be lopped for forage. Others,
suited for making small scrubs, are gun-
dablui, miljee, belar, mulga, western
mallee, nelia (slow but useful), boonti,
brigalow and “dead-finish.
* * * . * .
“Mother Goose”: I’m afraid “Dingo
has been badly served by the featherbed-
makers who left in the quills to work
through the mattress and tickle him m
his dreams (B. 15/6/’3B). In the North
of England, where featherbeds used to
be a social institution— every bride ot
whatever caste had one or more of them
as part of her marriage portion —the
“web” was always pulled off the quills
after the feathers had been baked in the
old-fashioned brick ovens which were
to be found at every farm- and manor-
house. If “D” found that he sank through
the feathers until he came to the bate
mattress” his housemaids were asking for
a telling-off. It was essential that a
featherbed should be vigorously tossed,
turned and punched every morning. 1
have been told of particular people in-
quiring their maids to wear white kid
gloves while engaged on this task.
“E.”: A Vic. farmer saved the feathers
from all poultry he killed until he had
enough material to make what he termed
a proper mattress. The finished article
appeared something like a small Zeppelin,
and the other members of the family
looked on enviously while Dad crawled
in to his super-bed and disappeared from
view. A couple of hours later the eldest
son was awakened by strange snorts and
gurgles coming from Dad's room, and
was just in time to save the old chap
from suffocation. The feathers had gradu-
ally shifted to each side and then closed
in on top of the sleeper. He’s back to
the old bag bunk again.
# # * *
“Dungeness”: The longest recorded
trek for a wandering buffalo is that of
the old bull recently reported from White
Springs, less than 100 miles from Charters
Towers (N.Q.). Others have been
occasionally met with in the Gulf country,
and even on Barkly Downs, but this latest
wanderer is over 600 miles from usuai
N.T. buffalo haunts. They are invari-
ably elderly bulls, driven out of the herd
by younger rivals, and soured by loneli-
ness and repression into a condition of
ferocity and vindictiveness which makes
them more dangerous than any tiger.
One such attacked a bullock-team har-
nessed to the wagon, and before it was
shot finished off five of them and badiy
dama ge d another hall-dozen.
“ L aetitia”: Rotumah "is not so little
known as « B B » (B< 13 /6/’3B) would in-
dicate, for the islanders were reckoned
the most efficient of all the South Seas
indentured labor employed in the pearl-
j ng fleets during the lurid days of
Torres Strait. They were famed for their
seamanship and physique, and many
elected to live in Torres Strait when
indentured labor was abolished. These
were settled under Anglican Mission
auspices on Moa Island, and now, by
intermarriage with Torres Strait Binghi,
a splendid physical type has been evolved,
* * * *
“David”: Choom was straddling the
ration sheep across the yard to the kill-
ing-pen when the milker decided to
rescue his woolly cobbers. Grabbing a
small boulder Choom waited for the
final rush. When it came he donged
Strawberry on the front piece with it.
It rebounded, and now a Bahgoom, with
a beautiful shanty on one eye, is con-
vinced of the hardness of the bovine skull.
HER RECORD.
“Berry Lovely, an lilawarra Shorthorn on the
Government dairy training’ farm at Berry, has estab-
lished a world record in milk and butterfat pro-
duction for 273 days with 13,639j1b. of milk.”
O Berry Lovely, lovely Berry,
Among the daisies (Hey down derry!),
What deep determinations lie
Behind that meditative eye,
That while we toiled or made us merry
The long year through, with pen or putter,
You’ve been engaged in such an utter
Marathon of making butter.
Among the crowds that roar and jostle,
Sudden I pipe up like a throstle,
Imagining that far green charm,
The quiet excitement on the farm,
As ’mid the meadows, calm, colossal,
You spared a pint, reflecting that it
Should take but little longer at it
To bust the flaming record, drat it!
The ways of other record-breakers,
Fliers and pugs and wicket-takers,
The master-men of drives and cuts
And centenarians stoked on nuts,
Are far, I think, from your green acres.
With so much to be up and doing
I can’t conceive you coyly mooing
At numskulls who come interviewing.
How often we Wordsworthy fellows
When Dewdrop swings her tail and bellows,
And kicks us over, or the bucket.
Feel sadly that it’s time to chuck it.
And how our chill decision mellows
When you with milk of bovine kindness
Serenely flood upon our blindness
Your famous one-three-six-three-ninedness.
My Illawarrra Shorthorn fairy,
Old Senators whose chins are hairy,
As Casey put it, “drowse” for pay
In quite the ordinary way. .
Yet you who serve a civic dairy
By day and night, prodigious plodder,
Ask nothing for it but your fodder.
I can imagine nothing odder!
N.S.W.
DHAS.


“Skull Creek”: From an ad. in the
English “Fishing Gazette” of last
April:
Maggots. The largest factory in the
world. Established over 30 years. I won
the English championship, 1936. Send 2/6
for sample quart. Special terms for the
trade. Blank, the Maggot King.
Just another instance of how far we lag
behind the Old Dart. I suppose you
could travel all over the Commonwealth
without finding a single maggot-factory.
* * % *
“Laetitia”: It is, perhaps, the excep-
tion which proves the rule, but one
western Qld. station-hand now has doubts
about the story-book canine heroes. He
broke a leg when his horse fell on him,
and his sheep-dog remained at his side.
Scribbling a note, he tied it to the tyke’s
collar and sent Towser home. Nightfall
brought no help, although the homestead
was only a matter of some 10 miles, and
a bitterly cold night on the blacksoil
plains was suffered before a rescuing
party arrived next morning. The dog
had promptly made for his kennel and
gone to sleep.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Sheep don’t chew dried
bones for salt (B. 8/6/’3B), but because
their diet lacks some mineral deficiency
(generally calcium and/or phosphorus),
and they, like cattle, do it in good seasons
and bad. “Bill O’C.’s” claim that they
eat burr from each other’s wool over-
looks the fact that the Dalkeith sheep
were drought-stricken, when there would
be no burr, even if it were “clover”
country, which it isn’t. And sheep don’t
eat clothing, either for fun, food or
because they are enraged, as “Bill O’C.”
suggests. They will chew your shirt
while you’re handling them, but only
where your sweat has wet the garment
and made it salty.
* * * *
“Ebba”: An old house at Mount
Taylor (Vic.), built almost entirely of
sheets of stringybark, is said to be 75
years old. The stone fireplace and brick
chimney are both in an excellent state
of preservation ; but hardly more so than
the bark walls and roof. The comer
posts, floor and rafters are ironbark, and,
although white-ants have riddled build-
ings on adjacent farms, there is no sign
of the pest or its depredations on the
foundations of this old humpy. Un-
occupied for years except by an occa-
sional rabbit-trapper needing shelter, this
bark house is a standing memorial to the
bush builders of the early days of Gipps-
land.
* * *, *
“Pisces”: Ever seen the butterfly fish
of the Barrier Reef waters? About lOin.
long, sausage-shaped and almost scale-
less, it has wings of gossamer fineness
and transparency, which are ribbed like
a lateen sail; and, like the same, they
fold away and lie in their sheaths parallel
with the body when not in use. It has
a head like a pomeranian pup, and, when
landed it barks like one with asthma.
It also possesses a mast which
sticks straight up out of the back of
its nut. That thing, hair-fine, may be
a foot long. When in action its mast
stands erect and throws ripples as
it moves. When the wings are folded
the mast lies flat along the spine.
And it’s rare —I’ve struck only one
in 10 years.
“But what ’ appens , Cap'n, if parachute doant open?”
“Nagheer”: A S.Q. record in sheep-
killing finished when a red dingo slut
was trapped and shot on Wilga selection,
near Mendarra. The* holding was dog-
netted last January, with the lady inside.
During the four following months her
smallest known kill was six in a night,
her average eight, and the total cost over
£3OO. As many as 50 traps were set at
one time, with every known kind of
bait and decoy. She avoided them all.
Hit by the charge from a gun-trap, she
must have gone nine days without a drink
until a storm came. The rains which
then saved her life led to her final un-
doing ; another storm blotted out the
scent of a trap and she walked into it,
to earn a £35 reward for her captor.
% * ❖ ❖
“W.P.T.”: Add the emu to the list of
snake-killers. Watched one jumping up
and down in the same place for several
minutes. The big bird was so busy that
it didn’t notice my approach close enough
to observe that Joe was being trodden
on. It completed a good job by scoffing
a dozdn or so young ones that were
brought to light during the stamping pro-
cess.
* % ae
“Wang”: On his way to see how Dave
and the hired hand were getting on with
the fencing down at the river bend, Dad
killed a snake, which he draped over a
fence. No sounds of activity greeted
his ears as he neared the scene of the
job, and the explanation was soon appar-
ent. Dave and his offsider were asleep
in the shade of a tree. With a look of
grim resolve Dad collected the Joe Blake,
sneaked back and put it down within a
couple of feet of the sleepers. Then
grabbing an axe and letting out a blood-
curdling yell, he brought it down on the
“Why didn't you tell me that damn thing Was there ?”
reptile’s head. As Dave and his offsider
woke with startled looks, Dad merely
grinned. “Yer wus lucky I came along
when I did,” he said, giving the snake a
few hearty taps; "it wus maltin' straight
fer yer. Yer wanter watch out, its
mate s sure t be somewhere around,
Then he moved with a grin in his
whiskers, confident that there d be no
more sleeping on that job ;
* , * * t . * , .
“C.V.S.”: Can any Aboliar explain
how a possum retains a perfect coat, yet,
immediately it is killed, the fur will pull
out in handfuls? To avoid spoiling the
skin, shot possums must be handled with
great care till they are cold, when they
may be skinned without fear of damage,
Even on their plunge to the ground tufts
of fur may be left on twigs.
* * * *
“Centre”: I don’t know how many
families a peewee is licensed to beget
per annum, nor whether he is a bigamist
or has an unusually prolific mate. One
that haunts my place has made himself
very much at home. Peewees build high ;
, r- *, ? ’
the first nest was near the top of a
70ft. native apple-tree in the paddock,
flie other two well up in stringybarks,
Thus is the third year he s exceeded the
speed limit. He is the tamest thing in
the fowl lihe Ive known, taking food
from any member of the family and
from between my lips. He swings down
as I m walking or working about the
place, and set^ es ? n head or shoulder
and shrieks for food cheese being his
favonte fodder. When I m digging he
forages about between my feet barely
taking the trouble to get out of the way.
He feeds one of the two his missus
hatches out, and she looks after the
other. After each breeding the older
members of the family
have to fend for them-
selves, and get a rough
passage if they don’t
clear out.
* *
“James W.”: Import-
ing fish to eat mosquito
larvae is useless. As
“Bufo”says(B. 26/5/’3B),
the blue-eye is a cham-
pion at mopping up
moss i e s’ eggs and
wrigglers, but he has an
insatiable enemy, the
black diver. This bird,
exclusively a fish-eater,
extirpates the piscine
denizens of numberless
pools and streams, and
leaves ideal breeding
areas for the moes. In
an experiment I had two
pools stocked with blue-
eye and perch. Both
pools were under wire-
netting guards, and not
a wriggler was visible in
either. I uncovered one
and kept a close watch.
In two days the fish in
that pool were cleaned
out by black divers,
which were the only
raiders, and within a
week wrigglers were
there in myriads. The
other pool was still free of them. I
transferred a few of the fish to the in-
fested pool and in two days the lame
were annihilated. If the black diver could
be eradicated our native fish would attend
to the rest of the problem.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Among the strangest of fish
are the brilliantly-colored, aggressive
little ruffians who live on, and in, the
giant stinging anemones of the Barrier
reef. Immune themselves to the poison
of the stinging cells, they use the anem-
one as an impregnable shelter against
the attacks of larger fish attracted by
the vivid coloration of their two-inch-
long bodies. More than that, they return
the hospitality by actually luring, or even
dragging, other fish, shrimps and small
crabs within reach of the deadly ten-
tacles. During the eating they pick off
such fragments as they fancy from the
tentacles as they pass to the mouth, and
even enter the anemone’s stomach in
search of more. At the last stage of their
host’s repast they carry off the bones
ejected from its stomach, and leave the
mouth clear for the next meal.
* * * #
“Koura”: Taking to the treetops when
one of Maoriland’s wild pigs gets peevish
(B. 12/5/’3B) is a good idea as long as
you pick a good tree. Saw a hefty
farmer, when a boar charged him, leap
at the nearest tree and shin up it as
quickly as any of his ancestors could
have done; but he’d picked on a sap-
ling, and as soon as he got towards the
top it bowed politely, split and deposited
him neatly on top of the grunter. I was
too helpless with laughter to come to
his aid, but fortunately it wasn’t neces-
sary, as the pig, squealing with fright or
mirth at the sudden visitation from the
sky, went off for the lick of its life.
'* * * *
“Cooramin”: Threshing wheat with a
flail (B. 8/6/’3B) reminds me of a scrub
farmer on the Richmond River (N.S.W.).
He lacked the cash to buy a corn-sheller
for his first year’s maize crop, so he used
a tough ironbark slab, perforated with
large auger-holes and with legs attached
like a stool. He stuck the cobs in the
holes, small ends down and hit them with
a light maul, the cores being driven
through the holes, while the grain flew
in all directions. At intervals the produce
was swept together and bagged. He
threshed a hundred bags that way.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: During the drought
everyone had either sent his stock away to
agistment or was hand-feeding, and
the only milk obtainable came out
of tins ; yet Mrs. Murphy’s Jersey
cow, though running in a paddock
eaten bare, kept in good condition
and was giving three gallons a day.
Mrs. M. explained the seeming
miracle to me. “Y’see,” she said,
“I’m cobbers with the storekeeper’s
missus. Their china and glassware
come packed in English meadow
hay. We stored it. The storekeeper
also bought a cheap line of honey,
but it was treacly stuff that nobody
would buy, so over to my shed it
went, too. Then there was the chaff
the eggs came packed in. But I
doubt if the old cow could milk on
it if it hadn’t been for thistle-roots.
Every night I go out with a
grubber and a lantern, digging up
thistle-roots, with the old cow following
and eating up every scrap of ’em. They
look like withered old parsnips, but she
loves ’em.”
THE STRENGTH OF IT.
“I see where this Von Luckner bloke,” said
“Milparinka” Joe,
“Can rip a book in ! alf an’ bend a penny;
But, strike me blue! they’d make y’ think, the
way these papers crow,
’E’s strong. They can’t’ve ’eard o Mick
McKenny.
“Old Mick’s me china-plate. I’ll tell y’ just
’ow strong ’e is.
We’re fossickin’ along the Muniong Ranges
Up Kosciusko way; it’s inter winter an", gee
whiz!
Along comes one o’ them there sudden
changes.
“Up there, y’ know, it freezes ’ard as quick as
you can wink.
This day when I’m to blazes out of ’earin’
Old Mick decides to fill the can with water
for our drink,
An’ goes down to a dam that’s in the
clearin’.
“I s’pose she’d be a few feet deep an’, say,
twelve feet across.
’E’s just about to fill it when ’e sneezes;
The can drops down, in goes Mick’s mitt, an’
—this is dinkum, boss —
Before ’e gets it out the water freezes!
“ ’E’s trapped. Can’t make me ’ear, an’,
thinkin that ’e’ll freeze to death,
’E bunches up ’is muscles —Mick can knot
’em—
An’ with ’is free ’and grabs a tree; ’e takes a
mighty breath,
Then yanks that frozen dam up from the
bottom!
“You ’aven’t ’eard it all yet: Mick’s in trouble
still, y’ see;
’ls ’and’s still in the ice, ’e can’t with-
draw it;
So wot’s ’e do? ’E lugs it up the ’ill, a mile
’twould be,
To park it near the fire where ’e can thaw
it!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Are yon a PERSON of
INDEPENDENT MEANS?
If so, then you may wish to travel, or to lead
your life free from the care and responsibility
of attending to your investments. By appoint-
ing The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited as Attorney or Agent, you can
be relieved of this worry. The Company safe-
guards its clients’ interests, remits income
and dividends regularly, collects rents, pre-
pares land and income tax returns, advises
upon and attends to the investment of money
and the payment of rates, taxes, etc.
Call upon or write the Company for full de-
tails as to how it can serve you.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
X. COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria, June 14, 1878)
(Registered in New South Wales, 1907)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRAEIA, NOW IN ITS
61st YEAR OE SERVICE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £955,806.
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE • 1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudencll White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0.,
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
W. D. Stewart. R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Bank of New Zealand
Mortgage
t —Dividends— s Shares,
Govt.’s Ord. 6 and
Mar., Profit. Divs. 14J- p.e. 74 p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 541.878 231,250 537,500 24,594 3,732,525
Inner reserves disclosed, £212,005.. 3,944,530
1929.. 912,954 231,250 537,500 46,143 4,042,591
1930.. 948,534 231,250 537,500 49,218 4,173,157
1931.. 845,814 231,250 537,500 49,218 4,201,002
1932.. 587,023 231,250 537,500 49,219 3,970,056
llj p.c.
1933.. 594,270 173,437 421,875 49,219 3,919,795
10 p.c.
1934.. 573,033 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,918,609
1935.. 578,748 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,923,138
1936.. 565,181 150,000.375,000 49,219 3,914,100
1937.. 600,008 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,939.889
1938.. 583,209 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,948,880
Experimental social and other legisla-
tion is strangling private economic
initiative in the Dominion, and may yet
cause trade and industry to drag their
anchors. In an abundance of cheap
credit, guaranteed prices, Government-
planned “rationalisation” of industry
and “social security,” the Govern-
ment seems to fancy it has a sor-
cerer’s wand, although the rod re-
cently appears to have lost some of its
magic as a vote-catching device. Owing
to the bounty of nature and the con-
tinued rise in export prices, the Gov-
ernment has thus far been able to get
away with its experiments without seri-
ous mishap to either trade or the cur-
rency. The bubble will burst if the
superstructure of costs (the peak has not
yet been reached) becomes too heavy for
the price base (now contracting a little)
to carry.
A further lift in export income, accom-
panied by “vigorous” Government spend-
ing on public works, etc., and the heaviest
flow of imports Maoriland has yet experi-
enced, created something akin to boom
conditions for the 12 months to the end
of March last. Gross earnings of the
8.N.Z., which enjoys a lion’s share of
the banking business in the Dominion,
sprang £66,479. That was after making
whatever provision was considered neces-
sary for contingencies, upon which much
depends:—
Gross
Income.* Expenses. Taxes.
1928 . . 1,816.869 630,453 323,339
1930 . . 2,013,526 684,745 359,648
1932 . . 1,770,686 659,629 502.835
1933 1,746,339 644,194 486,675
1934 .. 1,569,907 652,163 323,511
1935 . . 1,468.371 651,708 231,439
1936 . . 1,508,982 652,608 291,193
1937 . . 1,606,342 683,045 323,289
1938 . . 1,672,821 710,270 379,342
* After making provision for contingencies.
Management charges, etc., took only
£27,225 of the increase; but the
taxgatherers made off with an extra
£56,053, or £379,342 (£4342 more than
the ord. div.) in all. The net result was
thus £16,799 lighter at £583,209, which
was less than two-thirds of the 1930
figure.
Share capital totals £6,328,125 in
500,000 A 10 p.c., 234,375 C 6 p.c. and
468,750 D 7\ p.c., all non-cumulative
prefs., 1,375,000 B prefs. and 3,750,000
ords. The C and D money constitutes
the share capital of the Long-term Mort-
gage department. The Government owns
the A, C and B shares (total, £2,109,375)
and the public holds the Ds and the ords.
(total, £4,218,750). After paying the
A, C and D divs., the next £306,250 of
profit, or part thereof, handed out goes
one-seventh to the Bs and six-sevenths
to the ords., which are entitled to two-
thirds of any further distribution, the
other third going to the Bs. Last year’s
£583,209 of profit was 5.5 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) ; it was also enough. to pay the
non-cumulative pref. divs. (£99,218) and
show 7.5 p.c. on the B and 10.1 p.c. on
the ord. capital. The B and ord. divs.
were kept at 7.2 p.c. and 10 p.c. respec-
tively.
Including rates and taxes, Govern-
ment took £543,404 and private share-
holders £410,156 out of the business last
year.
The ords. have been fairly steady in
the market around 435. 6d. The return
at 435. 6d. is 4.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The non-cum. 7\ p.c. Ds at 295.
9d. yield 5.1 p.c.
The year’s buoyant internal trade and
the flood of imports are reflected in a
growth of £456,611 in bills payable, a
contraction of £904,580 in deposits and
expansion of £2,753,374 in advances:
Liabilities.
Notes. Bills. Deposits.
1928.. £3,797,080 £3,985,303 £30,339,033
1930.. 3,754,949 4,943,050 33,897,609
1931.. 3,679,957 4,348,941 32,324,685
1932.. 4,062,762 3,720,191 31,565,843
1933.. 4,338,747 3,560,404 32.573.239
1934.. 4,259,149 3,437.612 34,328,004
1935.. 503,779 3,838,441 33,198,6X4
1936.. 324,452 3,832,209 35,740,430
1937.. 628 4,177,062 35,636,112
1938.. 627 4,633,673 34,731,532
Assets.
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1928.. £25,892,025 £22,748,219 £533,597
1930.. 23,792,798 29,109,588 579,871
1931.. 22,628,660 28,400,213 600,759
1932.. 24,199,750 25,653,321 622,825
1933.. 25,712,572 25,079,868 632,771
1934.. 29,971,471 22,370,341 667,490
1935.. 25,907,405 21,490,732 673,678
1936.. 27,611,574 22,179,373 673,143
1937 26,108.701 23,663.949 684,961
1938.. 22,894,425 26,417,323 733,938
To meet the outgoings liquids were
drawn upon for £3,214,276, reducing
them to 58.1 p.c. of the liabilities to the
public when the books closed —a strong
position.
In the Long-term Mortgage depart-
ment there is £607,050 of debenture
stock in addition to the £703,125 of share
capital. Of the lot £911,062 was out on
loans and the other £399,113 was used
in the ordinary banking section of the
business.
The current term opened with dairy
produce and meat fetching better prices
than they did a year ago, but wool and
other pastoral produce were down, the
heavy flow of imports had reduced the
overseas funds of the reserve bank and
trading banks combined from £34,384,553
at March 29, 1937, to £26,564,562 at
March 28, 1938, and the retail price
index was still climbing. • Appearances
are that bank earnings will be less in the
exchange market, and trade locally may
lose a little of its briskness.
Prestige, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 21,107 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 11,439 9,668 33,965
Share premiums, £6407 . - - • 39,372
1929.. 29,924 8 p.c. 20 p.c. = 16,850 13,074 52,446
Share premiums, £14,033 .. 66,479
1930.. 30,600 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 16.754 13,846 80,325
Share premiums, £7199 87,524
1931.. 17,769 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 15,210 2,559 90,083
Share premiums, £2234 . . . . 92,317
1932.. 19,189 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 15,799 3,390 95,707
Share premiums, £5725 .. .. 101,432
1933 19,267 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 16,556 2,711 104,143
1934.. 19,796 8 „ 10 „ ~-19,465 331 104,474
1935.. 21,807 8 ~ 10 „ ~ 19,465 2,342 106,816
1936.. 25,540 8 ~ 12-J „ „ 22,270 3,270 110,086
1937.. 25,291 8 ~ 10 „ „ 19.465 5,826 115,912
1938.. 10,968 8 „ 71,, ~ 16,659 110,221
The chairman sums up the position in
this way:- —
The co. has completed installation of the
newest, largest and most up-to-date fine-
gauge full-fashioned hosiery plant in Aus-
tralia. This reorganisation, coupled with
increased raw-material and labor costs, has
resulted in a smaller profit. Demand for
the co.’s products has been maintained,
turnover being greater than for the pre-
vious year. Although the hosiery trade is
overproduced, the board feels that, with
the splendid demand for the co.’s newest
and exclusive products, it can view the
future with confidence.
After allowing for depreciation (there
are indications that the allowance has
been very liberal in the past), the slip in
gross earnings (£121,289) was £22,710,
of which £8387 was offset by a re-
duction in administrative charges, etc.
(£87,611), leaving the net result £14,323
lighter at £10,968, the poorest showing
since the co. recovered from its infant
ailments after the early post-war slump.
The £10,968, most of which appears to
have come from the Maoriland sub-
sidiary, was enough to pay the pref.
div. (£8244) and show 2.4 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 15.1, 15.4, 12, 10.2,
12.4, 13, 12.3 and 37.7 p.c. back to 1930.
The div. —it was 20 p.c. in 1929, fol-
lowed by 15 p.c. in 1930 and then a
steady 10 p.c. for the next seven years,
with 2i p.c. added in ’36—was lowered
to 7} p.c., and reserves were drawn upon
for £5691 to pay it.
On plant £16,198 more was spent than
was written off; still, the item figured at
£4084 less than it did five years ago:
1925. 1933. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £33,181 £215,259 £215,259 £215,259
Debentures .. 9,563
Overdraft .. 7,460 2,709 1,176 69,299
Sundry creditors 3,948 69,152 44,274 45,457
Freeholds .. 15,126. 75,815 79,783 80,581
Plant, etc. .. 15,059 115,870 95,588 111,786
S'liares in other cos. 52,546 72,546 72,546
Stocks •• 16,646 125,043 89,240 134,816
Book debts, etc. 9,669 24,875 44,639 50,484
Gash, etc. .. 6,679 14,573 11,963 1,055
Stocks, which appear at or under cost,
were up £45,576, and £5845 was added
to debtors’ balances. To meet the out-
lay and pay the previous year’s final div.,
the cash holding was drawn upon for
£10,908, while £68,123 was added to the
overdraft and £llB3 to the amount
coming to sundry creditors. Still, the
financial position remained comfortable ;
including stock but not shares in other
cos., the more or less liquid surplus was
£71,599—£28,793 less than at the previous
balance. Shareholdings consist mainly of
ords. in the Maoriland subsidiary and
in a local offshoot which markets less
high-grade products than the parent. The
Maoriland co. (paid capital £60,949 in
20,000 6 p.c. prefs., 39,949 ords. and 1000
management shares) paid £8250 on its
ord. and management shares (equal to
an average of 6 p.c. for four years) in
April, 1937.
As for the current term, prospects of
a substantial improvement in net earnings
are encouraging. Certainly the general
outlook is not so favorable as it was a
year ago, and the crowded, state of the
industry means maintenance of keen
competition and keen selling prices, too,
while costs are still on the up-grade
(national insurance will add a bit more
to the bill), and the growth in stocks
attracts attention. Still, the rise in raw
material prices and the trend of costs
allay many fears in regard to stocks,
and the new plant should mean much
so far as efficiency, quality and costs are
concerned, thus strengthening the co.’s
competitive power. Also, the co. enjoys
a wide goodwill, built up on the high-
grade hosiery and lingerie in which it
specialises, and of which no account is
taken in the books.
Doubtful of what may happen in the
trade, the market lowered its bid for the
10s. f.-p. ords. from 15s. 6d. a month
ago to 11s. following publication of the
accounts. Last week-end the figure had
recovered to 12s. 6d. buyers, as against
21s. 9d. 12 months back. The return
at 12s. 6d. is 6 p.c. on a p.c. div.
basis, with prospects. The prefs. at
265. (275. a year ago) return 6.1 p.c.
The net tangible cover is £3 3s. Id. prefs.
and 19s. lOd. ords.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends N
A B
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.*
& & £> £ £ £/
1928.. 49,017 10,500 19,200 1800 18,117 265,220
10 p.c.
1929.. 49,887 10,500 24,000 1800 13,587 278,807
1930.. 48,841 10,500 24,000 1800 12,541 291,348
8 p.c.
1931.. 39,717 10,500 19,200 2100 7,917 299,265
1932.. 39,711 10,500 19,200 2400 7,011 306,876
1933.. 34,167 10,500 19,200 2400 2,067 308,943
1934.. 36,366 10,500 19,200 2400 4,266 313,209
1935.. 42,324 10,500 19,200 2400 10,224 323,433
1936.. 37,267 10,500 19,200 2400 5,167 328,000
1937.. 40,835 10,500 19,200 2400 8,735 337,335
1938.. 39,841 10,500 19,200 2400 7,741 345,076
* Subject to goodwill, .£80,000.-
The small drop of £994 in declared net
earnings can be taken as a hint that the
board doesn’t think the outlook for the
current term is quite so good as it was
when the last one began. Still, there is
nothing in the position for shareholders
to worry about. Founded in Melbourne
in 1865 by the Hon. Robert Harper, the
business spread to Sydney in 1877, to
Brisbane and Adelaide in 1882 and to
Fremantle in 1893, and the co., which
manufactures much of its own require-
ments, is now in a very strong position,
financially and otherwise. From the start
the policy has been to fill all executive
positions from those trained in the busi-
ness ; also, the co. trades on short terms,
both as buyer and seller, and the man-
agement is, and always has been, opposed
to “supported accounts,” preferring to
have thousands of customers on its books
rather than be a silent partner in a more
limited number of retail establishments.
There is £430,000 of capital to feed
in 150,000 7 p.c. cum. prefs., 240,000
ords. and 40,000 B (employees’) shares.
The last are entitled to three-fourths of
the ord. div., with a maximum of 6 p.c.,
and rank equally.with the ords. for return
of capital, but do not share in surplus
assets. Last year’s £39,841 of profit was
sufficient to pay the pref. and B share
divs., and then show 11.2 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 11.6,10.1, 12.2, 9.7, 8.8,
11.1, 11.3 and 15.2 p.c. back to 1930.
They are excellent figures, considering
they cover the difficult slump period,
since when competition has got more oi
an edge on it, which means that profit-
margins on many lines are now finer than
they used to be. The div. has been
steady at 8 p.c. since 1917, sweetened
with a 2 p.c. bonus in ’29 and ’3O.
Now consider these figures:
1932. 1934. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £430,000 £430,000 £430,000 £430,000
Sundry creditors 41,778 47,297 35,335 34,442
Freeholds .. 145,665 146,188 144,909 144,582
Plant, etc. .. 48,926 42,251 37,894 36,84 a
Stock . . . . 146,840 163,432 133,440 128,770
Sundry debtors 111',020 95,905 106,290 91,221
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc. 262,246 278,780 336,187 364,Hi
Finances are obviously snug, and assets
are well worth their book value. Indeed,
there is a considerable inner reserve,
due largely to unearned increment, in
the freehold item. The feature that
catches the eye is the amount invested
outside the business. At the end ot
March it was made up of Government
securities, unchanged at £165,348; de-
posits and cash, £198,681 (up £27,958) ,
shares in other cos., unchanged at £ll5-
The lot totals £364,144, which is only
£65,856 short of paid capital. As tor
what the board has in mind in this con-
nection, the chairman says: “The policy
of your directors has been, and is, to con-
serve the resources of the co. to provide
o Continued on page 24.)


I=3
I=3
m
RADIOL A: Model 265. 6-valve
World Range Air Cell operated
Model 38 guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 20 gns.
Model 330. 5-valve Dual
Wave Air Cell operated Model.
Price 33 guineas.
Other Air Cell operated Models priced
from 27 guineas.
• • •
NO
RECHARGING
OF BATTER IE S- NEEDS NO
ATTENTION WHATSOEVER!
For years the man in the country has wanted a radio like this—a set especially
designed for use in districts where electric power is not available—yet every bit as
convenient as an all-electric model.
Equipped with an Ever Ready AIR CELL, instead of a troublesome accumulator,
it is the nearest thing to the "city set" ever offered the country listener,
because this new type battery needs NO RECHARGING AND NO ATTENTION
WHATSOEVER! With normal use, it delivers an even flow of current for twelve
months, and THERE IS NO FALLING OFF IN POWER until the last day of its life.
Just think what this means to you if you live outside a power area. Radio that
you can rely on, that has no blank periods while accumulators are being recharged,
and that virtually runs itself. Practically every radio set manufacturer in Australia
now produces Air Cell operated models. See your local dealer NOW for a
demonstration.
'{ ! \Y:
mm
■
m
!jhM
WESTIIVGHOUSE: (Above) Model 458.
5-valve Dual Wave Air Cell operated Model.
Price 38 guineas.
Other Air Cell operated Models from 32 gns.
TASMA: (At left) Model 585. 5-valve
Dual Wave Air Cell operated Model.
Price 37 guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 29 guineas.
(Prices slightly higher in W.A.)
" f %
* * * * : 4>
BREVILLE: (Above) Model 111. 5-valve
Triple Wave Air Cell operated Model.
Price 35 guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 31 guineas.
(1 guinea higher in Qld., S.A. and W.A.)
BANDMASTER: (At right) Model
458D8. 5-valve World Range Air Cell
operated Model 32 guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 20 guineas.
Other well-known makes of Air Cell operated Radio include:—Aristocrat (E.S.M.),
Batyphone, Briton, Calstan, Crammond, Croydon, Genalex, Howard, Kriesler, Lekmek, Para-
mount, Velco, Weldon, Zenith.
STROMBERG - CARLSON:
Model 780. 6-valve Dual Wave Air
cell operated Model, 38A guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 28 gns.
(Prices slightly higher in W.A.)
SjH * u
? : fm
$ .v.
lllllill
S.T.C.: Model 523 D. 5-valve Dual
Wave Air Cell operated Model.
Price . . 35 guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 20 gns.
(Prices slightly higher in Q’ld.)
Cquipped u>ith an FVER READY Air-Cell


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET,
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
Who Will Carry Out Your Will?
|H7HEN your experienced eye and hand are gone, who will see to the conservation of your
hastate ? Who will see that your affairs are carried on with the utmost efficiency in the
interests of your family and other beneficiaries?
You will, of course, appoint in your Will an Executor and Trustee. You will want to see
that that executor has these qualifications: He must have a wide experience in the solution of
business, financial and legal problems ■ he must have absolute probity ; he must be accessible
at all reasonable times; and he must never grow too old for sound judgment.
You cannot find all these qualifications in a private person, but you CAM find them in Perpetual
Trustee Company, Limited. 1
is as
ould
Company
An interview with a Senior Officer of the Company would convince you that the Company i
experienced in the management of country estates as it is of city estates Perhaps vou w
prefer to write for booklets? An interview would be best, but write if you prefer.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited.
DIRECTORS.
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C. E R Knox
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. p Qureton Manao-er
Trust and Agency Funds under administration exceed £53 000 000 ’ 6
33 39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. 13. Davies,
M.Sc., and Coliison and Go. (ivlelb.). — Advt.
$ * * *
Wasted heat costs you money! Have all boilers
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free copy of our latest General
Catalogue.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
INVESTIGATE BEFORE
INVESTING
F **sr
T Rvsr
f
/“OBVIOUSLY, this is the logical, procedure when
your money, no matter how much, is involved.
Therefore, you owe it to yourself to investigate
immediately an investment considered by the world’s
leading financial experts to be of the soundest.
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
'Phone 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
for any emergency and for future de-
velopment that may arise.” Meanwhile,
this strong liquid position enhances the
possibilities of the scrip, thus adding to
its attractiveness as a sound investment.
At 395. 6d. (40s. a year ago) the fully-
paid pound ords. return 4 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 30s. yield
4.6 p.c. The net tangible cover is £4
12s. Bd. prefs. and 425. Id. ords.
Bon Marche, Ltd. (Sydney)
t Dividends ■, Towards
Net Pref. Re- Re-
•lan,. Profit. 7J p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Assets written up, £25,000 .. .. 17,047
1928.. 22,352 6540 8 p.c. = 8000 7,812 24,859
1929.. 15,050 7500 8 „ „ 8000 150 25,009
1930.. 11,140 7500 0 p.c.= 0000 22,049
Loss.
1931.. 9,858 3750* Nil 9 041
1932.. 7,918 Nil Nil 1,128
_ . Deficit.
Written oft investments, £2625 .. 1,497
1933.. 17,870 Nil Nil 19,372
Insurance reserve (£5000) taken in .. 14,372
1934.. 7,353 Nil Nil 21 725
1935.. 1,573 Nil Nil 23,298
Profit.
1930.. 8,335 Nil Nil 8,335 14,903
1937.. 8,700 7500 Nil 1,200 13.G97
1938.. 8,840 6,094 Nil , 2,746 10,951
* Half-year’s div. to August, 1930.
This department store is an offshoot of
Marcus Clark and Co., in Railway-
square, a few hundred yards down the
street. Its customers consist almost en-
tirely of working people, and it trades
largely on a t.-p. basis. Half the £200,000
of capital is prefs. and the other half ords.
The parent owns the ords. and the public
is interested in the prefs., which carry a
cumulative 74- p.c., reduced to 5.8 p.c.
under the N. S. Wales Interest Reduc-
tion Act.
Slump brought a run of losses aggre-
gating £44,572 for the five years to the
close of accounts in 1935 and a cessation
of divs. Profits have showed up for
each of the last three years, and pay-
ment of the prefs.’ annual requirements
was resumed in April, 1937. But there
has not been very much to spare, and
the rising trend of costs and economic
developments make it difficult to say
when arrears of the pref. divs., which
amounted to nearly £32,000 years) at
the close of last accounts, will be over-
taken. It is more difficult still to say
when the parent is likely to get any
return from its ord. holding.
Although turnover has improved with
the growth in employment, which is now
higher than the pre-slump level, the value
of average purchases by the individual
is lower, owing to lower average earn-
ing power, while competition has kept
the margin of profit down, and seems
likely to continue to do so. Hence net
earnings for each of the last three years
have been less than half what they were
in 1928. Owing to the lift in wages and
demands of the taxgatherer, the pay-sheet
and provision for taxation together called
for about £4OOO more last term than in
the previous one, and an extra £lO2 was
struck off for depreciation (£1640). There
was no change worth mentioning in the
declared net result (£8840), which was
£3028 more than the prefs.’ minimum
annual requirements.
The market sums up the position by
pricing the fully-paid pound prefs., cov-
ered by 375. lOd. in net tangibles, mainly
freehold, at 135., as against 14s. 6d. a
year ago and 16s. 12 months before that.
The return at 13s. is 8.9 p.c. on a 5.8
p.c. div. basis, plus arrears when paid.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1930. 1934. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities . . 82,098 95,399 120,474 128,407
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 124,205 122,762 122,451 121,989
Plant, etc. .. 18,144 15,332 14,374 13,649
Stock .. . . 40,856 26,360 23,548 22,154
Hook debts . . 126,350 108,735 153,119 164,958
Investments,
easil, etc. . . 9,943 484 786 800
To add £11,839 net to debtors’ balances,
raising them to £164,958, higher than
they have ever been, the board went out-
side for an extra £7933. Of the outside
debt, £75,095 is “loan and bank ad-
vance,” secured by mortgage, and the
balance bills payable and sundry credi-
tors. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£59.505) was
£2526.
Zinc Corp., Ltd.
Youngest of the three main Barrier
cos., Zinc Corp.’s activities were confined
in the early days to the treatment of
tailings dumps for their zinc content.
Lead-silver-zinc ore is now the lifeblood
of the mine, which is at the south end
of the Barrier lode. To explore and de-
velop the southern extension of the lode,
which has been proved to pass out of
the Corp.’s property at 2250 ft., New
Broken Hill Consolidated was sponsored,
with encouraging results.
The Corp. has entered into a pro-
visional arrangement with the pup for
joint working and equipment, paying out
£lOO,OOO stg. on this account last year.
In the parent’s own leases ore reserves are
put at 3,349,000 tons, the same as at the
end of 1936, when there were 3,100,000
tons blocked out in the main lead lode and
249,000 tons in the zinc lode. But ex-
ploratory drillholes have indicated the
probability of another 600 ft. of similar
lode material down to 2500 ft., each 100 ft.
of lift being expected to yield 900,000
tons of ore.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts a profit of £432,909 (up
£63,473) is reported, after adopting “a
more conservative valuation than cus-
tomary for products on hand”:
Mine Interest, Net , Dividends N
Dec., Profit. Etc. Profit. Pref. Old. Amount.
1934. . £85,052 £64,961 £131,227 5/6 1/6 £116,551
1935.. 292,906 90,582 323,996 8/6 4/6 251,375
1936.. 354,911 78,523 369,436 10/- 6/- 318,788
1937.. 578,242 89,026 432,909 12/6 8/6 431,142
Struck after allowing £139,359 for ad-
ministration and taxes, including £25,000
for special defence imposts, and ear-
marking £95,000 for shaft development,
the latest result is the best yet. After
handing the prefs. their fixed 20 p.c.,
Bs. 6d. per share was sent out on both
classes of scrip, making the full distribu-
tion for the year 62\ p.c. on the £1 prefs.
and 85 p.c. on the 10s. ords.
Despite considerably increased produc-
tion, mining and milling costs at 30s. 4d.
a ton were 2s. Id. a ton heavier, owing
principally to a sliding wage agreement
by which a bonus of 6d. per shift is
payable to every adult miner for each
rise of £1 in the price of lead above £l5
Australian. Compared with the previous
year, throughput stepped up 25,560 tons,
and rate of treatment, which reached
34,000 tons for the four weeks to May
21, continues to increase:
Treated, Costs, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Dec., Tons. Ton. Tons. Oz. Tons
1936 .. 364,800 28/3 55,173 1,336,389' 35 673
1937 .. 390,360 30/4 58,927 1,427,391 34,059
1938* . . 137,170 23,132 534,889 13,966
* 20 weeks.
The figures exclude zinc in lead con-
centrates and lead and silver in zinc
concentrates. Ore fed to the mill assayed
15.6 p.c. lead, 10.2 p.c. zinc and 3.90 z.
silver a ton. Recoveries of lead from lead
concentrates increased from 95.7 p.c. to
96.5 p.c., and of zinc from zinc concen-
trates from 84.1 p.c. to 85.9 p.c. The
tendency, as in the case of the North
and South cos., has been for values to
become better as the lode goes down.
Last year’s profits were won with lead
and spelter at sterling prices as shown
hereunder:
1935. 1936. 1937. . 1938*
Lead £l4/5/8 £ 17/12 '6 £ 'l £i<wio/4
Spelter ... £l4/3/6 £l5/0/8 £22/6/11 £l4/2/5
Silver .. 2/7.30 1/9.66 1/9.65
* Five months to May.
The last column shows the heavy fall that
has taken place since the end of 1937.
Last week-end lead was around £l4 18s.
9d. a ton in London and spelter £l4
Is. lOd. Indications point to the out-
look for America, one of the world’s
chief consumers of base metals, being a
bit brighter in the second than in the
first half of this year, which may be re-
flected in stronger metal prices later on.
From an investment viewpoint Zinc
Corp. is probably now the pick of the
Barrier cos. After 1940 the co. expects to
be putting through 730,000 tons of ore
annually. With this end in View, a new
(Freeman) shaft is being sunk 500 ft. east
of Block 5 shaft to a minimum depth of
2200 ft., and new plant is being erected
on the spot. Later, the existing mill will
also be transferred to the same site.
Further, to cheapen stope-filling costs, a
new sand-pass was to be put through
direct to the 1181 ft. level.
Capital is in 245,692 20 p.c. £1 cum.
par. prefs. and 653,139 10s. ords. The
latter are priced at 87s. in Sydney.
Principal investments include 337,055 £1
shares in B.H. Associated Smelters, which
does the refining of the lead concentrates
at Port Pirie (S.A.), and substantial hold-
ings in New B.H. Consolidated, Asso-
ciated Pulp and Paper, Commonwealth
Aircraft, Electrolytic Zinc, Western
N.S.W. Electric Power Pty., Metal Manu-
factures, Gold Exploration and Finance,
Electrolytic Refining and Smelting (Aust.),
and Imperial Smelting Corp.
South Aus. Brewery Merger
If Walkerville Co-operative Brewing
Co.’s shareholders agree, the S.A. Brew-
ing Co. will take over their business,
lock, stock and barrel, for 122,089 f.-p.
pound shares as from August 1 next,
but the purchase scrip will not rank for
divs. until the beginning of September.
At the end of July, 1937, Walkerville’s
paid capital was £244,177, and visible re-
serves £17,603, after allowing for the div.
No goodwill figured in the books. Out-
side liabilities totalled £84,925. Assets
comprised freeholds, £174,595 ; plant,
£123,574; stock, £14,826; debtors,
£31,316; investments, £16,084; cash,
£383. For the 12 months to the close'
of last accounts, the co. netted £16,737
(up £2250), and paid 6 p.c.; and 6-|- p.c.
is to be sent out in respect of the current
term.
The shares in each co. are fully-paid to
£l, and before announcement of the deal
the market priced Walkerville’s at par
and the S.A. Brewing Co.’s at 525. 6d.
On the basis of these figures the purchase
price is £320,484, equal to £76,307 more
than the figure at which the market values
the vendor’s undertaking, or £58,704
more than its net tangible book value,
which is known to be conservatively
stated, owing to severe writing down
a few years ago.
S.A. Brewing also proposes to issue
100,000 new £1 shares at par, one for
five, to those on its register at July 31.
Scrip handed over in connection with the
purchase of Walkerville will not partici-
pate in this new par issue. Together the
two issues will lift paid capital to
£722,089, on which 10 p.c. will call for
£2208 less profit than S.A. Brewing
showed for the 12 months to the end of
February last. So there appears little
danger of the 10 p.c. div. being inter-
fered with. Last week-end the scrip
fetched 535. 3d., equal to 475. Bd. after
exercising the rights to the new issue.
The return at 475. Bd. would be 4.2 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
After announcement of the deal,
Walkerville shares shot up to 245. 9d.,
cum div. of Is. 34d. On the basis of the
deal, this brings them approximately into
line with the ex rights market valne of
S.A. Brewing shares, and a 10 p.c. div.
would be equal to 5.6 p.c. on the face
value of the vendor co.’s capital.
Formed in August, 1937, Grey River
Dredging has wasted little time installing
its big electric-powered bucket-dredge,
which is expected to start up in Septem-
ber. With 16-c.f. buckets, the plant is
expected to handle 450,000 c.y. monthly.
Boring has indicated 63,000,000 c.y.,
averaging 2gr. gold, on the co.’s Black-
water (M.L.) property, and annual profits
of £54,500 are looked for. The co. is
an offshoot of Rimu Gold Dredging, an
American-controlled concern which has
been operating with moderate success for
some years. Kaneiri Gold, one of the
Sydney Prattens’ foundlings, also hopes
to have its high-powered dredge —it will
dig to 80ft. —operating about the same
time as Grey River’s. Kaneiri has
55,000,000 c.y., estimated to average
3.lgr. gold, available, which it aims to
handle at the rate of 400,000 c.y. a
month. With three other- -Arahura,
Ngahere and Austral N.Z. —big plants
now building, dredging in the Dominion
promises to regain some of its import-
ance of 30 years ago.
* * * *
Mt. Coolon (Q.) has had no luck in
its efforts to locate a worth-while exten-
sion of the lode and/or new ore-bodies,
and possibilities in this direction are
being fast eliminated, the board says.
Ore remaining in the mine is reckoned
to be enough to keep the mill going till
the end of July. During 1937 the mill
was closed from February to October.
In the remaining months it treated 18,108
tons of its own ore and residues and
1288 tons ore from tributors for a yield
of 79020 z. fine gold. After writing off
£34,194 expended on exploration and de-
velopment, a loss of £11,014 showed up,
compared with a profit of £83,872 for
1936. Two 6d. divs. were paid, leaving
current assets £27,834 in excess of out-
side liabilities at the end of December.
In addition the co. holds 50,000 f.-p. 4s.
shares in Morning Star, Wood’s Point
(Vic.), which the market prices at 2s. Id.
each.
* * * *
In the 34 weeks to June 17 Cocks
Eldorado, on Reedy Creek (Vic.), treated
1,301,460 c.y. for 81460 z. gold and 140
tons tin ore, valued in alt at £91,573.
Working is highly profitable; costs are
around sd. a yard, while average re-
coveries during the 34 weeks have been
worth 16.9 d. Profit for the term to date
would seem to be around £65,000.
'i* *!» ; I f 'K
Lake View and Star (W.A.) has pur-
chased the adjoining Imperial leases at
a price less than the profit it expects to
make from the treatment of an ore dump
on the surface. Apart from the afore-
said dump there is at least 20,000 tons
of ore underground, and buildings and
plant on top which cost £ll,OOO. Four
years ago the Imperial Co. was reckoned
to have something good. The belief was
based on the announcement that a new
lode which had been struck in shaft-
sinking at a depth of 181 ft. had been
driven on for some distance and assayed
about 2oz. a ton over a width of syft.:
a crushing of 55 tons had averaged 41dwt.
a ton. This announcement brought the
southern end of the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile, where the Imperial blocks are
located, into prominence, and a large ad-
jacent area was pegged. But the co.’s
subsequent crushings were of much lower
average value, and after spending thou-
sands of pounds in an unsuccessful at-
tempt to get rich it gave up and put the
property on the market. It is now seek-
ing fortune at Broken Hill (N.S.W.).


SMOKE-OH!
There’s nothing green about some of
these grass widows!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It would be a far better world if only we
had some more of the milk of human kind-
ness. “—Sydney parson.
And better still if we
had some rum to go
with it!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A campaign has been
started in Russia to reduce
discordant noises to a mini-
mum.”
No doubt this will
mean that execution
squads will now be
issued with automatic
silencers.
“Although the car somersaulted twice,
neither the driver nor his passenger was
inured.”— Westralian paper.
Well, it takes quite a lot of double
somersaults in a car before one really
gets used to them.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“One can always tell those punters who have
been to the races and lost,” says a writer.
It will come as a surprise that there
are punters of any other kind.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Thieves hold up chorus girls.”— News item.
But how on earth did they get the
idea they could take anything off chorus
girls?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Prison superintendent has his watch stolen
while on a tour of inspection.”— News item.
Apparently the culprit didn’t in the
least mind getting some additional time.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He wrote an amusing ballad describing how
he gave his best girl a thrashing.”
—Book review.
Not the first bard to tell how he beat
the favorite.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Reverse for Mr. Lang.”— “S.M.H.”
Obviously he’s now a bit too old for
top gear.
“Young man, 21, easygoing, good-for-nothing,
lazy, wants work in any position offering.”
— “D.T.” situations wanted ad.
Dear Sir, —
You’re just the man we dream about.
We have a vacancy for a sleeping part-
ner, so if you care to drop down within
the next year or so we will be able to
make the berth available to you.
Y.A.W.N. Distributing Co.
Y. Wirk, Manager.
4 4 4 4
“He refused to let the house to this tenant.”
— “Sun.”
No doubt he thought the tenant had
a shifty look.
4 4 4 4
“Island Where Rum Is King.”
—“World’s News.”
But the queen is still a gin.
“Try it this Way , Bill, an' then you'll put more SOUL into your work!"
The sugar some people acquire is not
by any means refined.
4 4 4 4
Henna, of course, is the stuff with
which old hens brighten their plumage.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“If conveyed for a less distance of 200 miles,
and the crude ore rate less 1\ p.c. for 200 miles
is less than the crude ore rate for the actual
distance conveyed, rebate will be made to the
crude ore rate, less p.c. applicable to 200
miles.” — New by-law for N.S.W. Railways.
So now you know.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Renunciation.
The producer stood at the window of
one of his luxurious offices in Hollywood.
A secretary entered, newspaper in hand.
He coughed discreetly.
“Well?” demanded the great man,
without turning.
“Gloria Mundi,” said the secretary;
“you’ll remember she travelled to the
East in search of happiness following
her marriage?”
“Sixth?”
“Seventh. Gloria has discovered life’s
greatest secret. She has found content
at last as a humble devotee of a mystical
Oriental cult.
“Good girl!” murmured the producer.
“She has written a book about it,”
continued the secretary; “dedicated it
‘To all who, like myself, have lived, loved
and drunk deeply of life.’ ”
“Poor girl!” sighed the producer.
“At the tomb of Omar Blaba in Per-
sistan,” said the secretary, “she met a
venerable woman dressed in a long, white
robe. The woman took Gloria in her
arms as if she was a little child. ‘My
daughter,’ she said, as if she had known
her all her life.”
The producer’s shoulders shook as if
he was in the throes of some powerful
emotion.
The secretary continued: “Gloria felt
(she writes) that ‘in the bosom of this
universal mother all the raging forces
of the world have found calm and
security.’ ”
The producer dabbed with a handker-
chief plump cheeks down which tears
were coursing, then gestured feebly.
“A column and a half write-up,”
nodded the secretary.
“She’s put it across,” hiccupped the
producer. “Offer her a contract, eight
hundred per.”
Nordbo.
4 4 4 4
This Week’s Fairytale.
With slack jaw and bulging eyes he
sat by the wireless set, listening to the
market report. Winking Lulus had
dropped to A\d. ; ruin stared him in the
face and there was only one honorable
way out.
Seizing pen and paper, he penned a
farewell note. Then, nerving himself for
the effort, he walked into the dining-
room, took a stainless-steel table-knife
from the sideboard drawer and with one
swift slash cut his throat from ear to ear.
H. A. L.
4 4 4 4
“If you sleep well you will live longer,” says
a doctor.
Owing, no doubt, to so much stretch-
ing on waking.
4* 4 4 4
“It has been suggested that Melbourne’s old
bay steamer Edina be bought by public sub-
scription.”
And presented to the Defence Depart-
ment.
“American gangster cornered by enemies while
in his bath.” — News item.
And wiped out, presumably.
4* 4* 4 4*
Darlinghurst nights may be wonderful,
but what about the daze?
Europe As I Didn’t See It.
(By a Very Foreign Observer.)
An idea popular ip, the lay mind is that
a journalist becomes a “Foreign Observer”
by the mere fact of his being told by his
editor to do a spot of foreign-observing
in between interviewing a lottery winner
and starting a silly-season argument
through the “Letters-received” column.
This is all wrong. The F.O. not only
has to devote the whole of his waking
hours to observing and sometimes even
thinking, but most of his 16 to 20 sleep-
mg hours as well. Nor must
it be lightly thought that he
reaches his exalted position in
one fell scoop, as it were.
So that he may get the
true distorted view and be-
come adept in the use of the
half-truth, he must first serve
his apprenticeship through the
cable end of the game.
Having mastered this, he be-
comes a “Commentator.”
No Commentator can be
considered to have won his
spurs unless he has first
worked up a thoroughly good
war scare that will shoot his
paper’s circulation up by at
least 10,000. Should this
coincide with the day on
which all the ragshops adver-
tise so much the better. It should
be no tinpot affair like the Gran Chaco
or a snarl between Albania and Bulgaria,
but must involve the Great Powers.
His period of graduation actually com-
mences when the would-be F.O. solemnly
predicts a “general conflagration within
three months.” This is his big moment.
He tremblingly awaits the effluxion of
time. When his prognostication fizzles
out he automatically blossoms into a
“Foreign Observer.”
I became the “Howler’s” F.O. following
a particularly brilliant season. Readers
will recall that in 1933 I predicted Musso-
lini’s early eclipse. Four years later II
Duce gave up the portfolio of Weights
and Measures, retaining only 14 other
portfolios. I was rewarded by being sent
to Paris to nose out the French attitude
to Czechoslovakia.
Obviously the Quai d’Orsay, hub of
French diplomacy, was my immediate
goal. I presented my credentials to a
“Madame Two-Blues, of ‘L’CEuf.’ ”
suave official, a charming fellow with
ducoed hair, expressive shoulders and a
microscopic zonker. I asked to see M.
Carteblanche, the Foreign Minister.
Being a trained diplomat the official
raised his eyebrows until they disappeared
under his hair, whistled, looked at me
pityingly, said “Sucre nom de nom d’un
petit chien !” and informed me more in
sorrow than in anger that M. Carte-
blanche was no longer the F.M. He had
been the previous afternoon, mais oui,
but that was two Ministries ago. M. Vin-
blanc was the present Minister, but if I
could wait an hour or so until the next
Cabinet reshuffle he would— parbleu !
tell me the name of his successor.
But it was the hour of aperitif, and I
couldn’t wait. Just as I was about to
leave, and was sparring about to avoid
being given the accolade, a female, obvi-
ously in need of a shave, hurriedly en-
tered, puffing furiously at a large cigar
and holding an enormous attache-case
marked “Secret Documents.” At sight of
her the diplomat turned a shade paler,
bowed low and whispered to me in an
awed voice that it was the famous
Madame Two-Blues, of “L’CEuf.”
Madame was hopping mad. It seems
that Hitler had given secret orders to
attack England during the third Test
match and her confidential copy hadn’t
come in time for the day’s “deadline.”
Next day “L’CEuf,” in a furious attack
on the Reich, warned England that Mar-
shal Goring had prepared plans for an
air attack on the West Indies so as to
cripple England’s vital rum trade.
Later in a cafe on the Place Demi-
monde I got into conversation with an
affable stranger. Over innumerable bocks
we discussed the Sudeten problem and the
machinations of Mittel Europa, the Polish
“....discussed the Sudeten problem....”
diplomat. He seemed to be well in-
formed, and, not to be outdone, I cooked
up a few sensational disclosures for his
“....the machina-
tions of Miltel
Europa, the Polish
diplomat. ...”
benefit. I noticed that he kept
scribbling notes on his cuff
as I talked. Not having any
cuffs on my shirtsleeves I had
surreptitiously to scribble my
notes down on the band
around the top of my under-
pants, no mean feat on a
crowded boulevarde.
The next day I noticed that
all my “disclosures” had been
incorporated in a lurid article
in the Paris edition of the
“Daily Blither” over scream-
er headlners, “The Match to
the Magazine! ” by “Our
Foreign Observer, E. Hansem
Bunke.”
I was surprised, as no
doubt he was when he read
all his disclosures in my
article, which pushed a double-murder
story, a sexagenarian society beauty’s
photo, and the China War news off the
“Howler’s” front page.
Since then, I am invariably referred to
as “Our Distinguished Foreign Observer.”
S. W. K.
Herbert.
“One of the North Queensland possums is
called Pseudochiris herbertensis.”
Despite his numerous offences,
To make a possum bear the brunt
Of Pseudochiris Herbertensis
Is an impossumble affront.
Zoologists must have their sport,
But I shall call him Herb for short.
STOO.
Not Caring a Button.
What’s become of bachelor-buttons,
those handy things a man could sew on
with a hammer in a few seconds? Maria
saw me trying to use a safety-pin.
“Give me those trousers,” she said,
“and I’ll sew a button on.”
It sounded simple enough, but the diffi-
culty was in finding a button, and when
I said that one from my old gardening
pants would do Maria said that it
wouldn’t match.
“What does it matter? It won’t be
seen,” I said offhandedly.
The lecture about my carelessness
lasted only two hours, because by then
Maria had found other themes for dis-
course.
You see, she started a search for a
button to match and, digging out her
hoard from all sorts of places, she found
some letters she had taken from my
pockets years ago and put aside for future
interrogation.
Later, during the search, she came
across some green glass buttons.
“I wondered what had become of that
set!” she exclaimed excitedly. “Aren’t
they beautiful? I must get a dress made
to match them. I saw a piece of material
the other day that will just do. I can
get it for a couple of pounds”
Does anyone know where I can get
bachelor-buttons? My strides are still
held up by the safety-pin.
H. M.
Highly Suitable.
“The average flapper wears a hat that is
utterly nonsensical.” — Essay on fashions.
It has to be conceded that
The flapper here is led
By perfect taste, for such a hat
Is sure to match her head.
T. W. N.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE ’
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
•with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS*
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
POWER
m
and
M©
ST LL
pa^
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCallum, Ltd., 96 Murray Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros./Ltd., 68-62 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 156 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company, 15 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Elphinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: W. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
The Cost-of-Living Crux
Lately there have been feelings of
.incertainty in the minds and hearts of
most people concerning the future. Some
are perturbed about shares, others about
the homes they have built or are about
to build, many others about their jobs.
The greatest attention deserves to be
given by all interests to cost-of-living
figures. Cost of living and standards of
living represent the problem of this age.
Currencies are manipulated because
living costs (and production costs) are
too high to allow profitable selling
by a particular country in the world’s
markets; “low-standard” countries are
taboo to many other “high-standard”
nations because low-wage goods are too
cheap, and so competitive that the im-
porting country’s people are put out of
work. Hence dumping duties, embargoes
and general dogfights—even talk of war.
In a country well endowed by nature,
as Australia, it seems absurd that we
should be continually baited into putting
high prices on to the things we use when
low prices, if kept stable, would serve
infinitely better. It is no advantage to
anyone if wages are lifted ss. a week
and, allowing for the inevitable time-lag,
the cost of living goes up ss. a week also.
All we are doing is to tie a millstone
round our national neck, hampering our-
selves in the swim for world-trade.
It isn’t unusual for visitors to Aus-
tralian shores to deplore the “White
Australia” policy and to assert that this
country will never advance without
“cheap” colored labor. According to such
people, cheap labor has been the foun-
dation-stone of many another country’s
emergence from obscurity. But Aus-
tralia has a visitor of a couple of years’
standing who seems to have different
ideas. He is Mr. Reddaway, the English
economist who recommended the “pros-
perity” loading of about ss. a week to
the Federal basic wage last year. Mr.
Reddaway didn’t drag in the question
of white, black, brown or brindle, but
he did seem to think that money wages
low enough to allow industry to
“prosper” on last year’s scale were dan-
gerous inasmuch as they might tend to
create a “boom.”
Encouragement of enterprise is the
most effective attraction to population.
The U.S.A. in its great period of pros-
perity drew millions of people from
Europe and elsewhere including the
black, brown and brindle. types which
Australia does not want —and a pros-
perous Commonwealth would have the
same magnetic effect on desirable
migrants. If a boom happened to be
created in certain industries, such booms
would largely take care ,of themselves.
The fruits of industry have a habit of
being priced, in the ultimate, at supply-
and-demand levels ; wool, for instance,
is averaging around 12d. this season, as
against 16.8 d. last term. And, so far as
the producer is concerned, that is exactly
that. But dragging costs into line, especi-
ally if they have risen steeply through
wage increases, is a problem calling for
the labors of a bullock-team and the
sagacity of King Solomon. In short,
it is better to keep the “boom” (if
any) in production rather than in the
costs of production. The wage-earner is
thereby given a better living standard,
with steadier employment over the years.
The comparatively big lift in our money
wages last year did not bring them up
to 1929 level; the Commonwealth Statis-
tician’s index figure for Dec., ’29, was
1974, that for Dec., ’37, 1760 —still 11 p.c.
down on 1929, though up 100 points
(about 5 p.c.) during last year. The
index of real wages—wages based on
their buying power—rose 4 p.c. (taking
1929 as the base for percentages). But
between March, ’37, and March, ’3B, the
wool, hides, etc., price-index had dropped
from 1853 to 1079 (33 p.c.), and it has
gone lower since. Agricultural products,
“That the ‘Daily Howler'? Listen, I Want to put an ad. in for a lost safe.”
including wheat, lifted from 1552 to 1590
over ear ’ recently they have
slumped. In the six months since Dec.
31 las * mo P e y wages Taye tended to
nse aad r ? a wa f es 1° i m
f nont *l s • s ! n^ l e a l wool and wheat
ba^ e decidedly weakened.
. A tabulation of these more important
* n^ exe ?’ latest available, shows the
t°howing trend.-
wage? wages H’hold Wool, Wheat,
(Male). (Male). Exes. Etc. . Etc.
Dec.,’29.. 1974 1082 1712 1556* 1792*
}!?? \Vfl jH~*
Dec.'’ ’37 ‘ 1760 1155 1465 1140 1520
Mar.,’3B.. 1467 1079 1590
* Average for year,
Although the story told there isn’t as
pleasing as it might be, there is one out-
standingly encouraging feature. It is the
cost-of-living index—“all items of house-
hold expenditure,” which is still 14 p.c.
below the peak of 1929, and 8 p.c. above
the low point of March, ’33. In spite
of increased wages, living costs up to
three months ago had not rushed up,
though they were rising, and have lifted
more since butter, for instance, has
gone up a penny.
Unlike many other countries, Aus-
tralia hasn’t lost the “benefit” of the
20 p.c. devaluation of our currency
otherwise known as the 25 p.c. exchange.
Even if the rest of the world is in for
a sharp reverse, of short duration or
otherwise, this circumstance, if fully
appreciated, may save us from being
unduly influenced thereby.
Recovery in the sharemarket early last
week was as sudden as the weakening on
the preceding Friday and Saturday, when
concerted selling seemed to anticipate a
number of things talk of increased
taxation from Canberra, the passing of
the National Insurance Blight through
the House of Representatives, the ex-
traction of a statement out of Treasurer
Casey that the last loan was a partial
failure (the Commonwealth Bank filled
in the gap in public support), and an
announcement that the Government was
going to blunder on with its Banking
Bill. Aided by the drop in export prices.
Melbourne selling crashed the mar-
kets ; but on Tuesday of last week
(firmness had already been demonstrated
the previous day) overseas cables showed
a better tone in London and New York,
metals moved up, and restriction of
rubber, sugar, copper and tin production
was announced ; it all seemed to bring
a breath of confidence that wafted prices
of B.H.Ps. from 555. to 605., Tobaccos
from 455. to 475. 3d., Norths from 365.
to 455., Souths from 245. 6d. to 31s. 6d.,
Zinc Corps, from 635. to 875., and Mt.
Lyells from - 225.- 9d. to 265. 6d.
Forward dealing in industrials had been
going on quietly, and bears were caught;
that also helped to put a spring in the
upward trend. < It is good to see that the
sharemarket still has some bone and
muscle to it. Taking the long view,
almost any trouble can be met it
face it properly. But the Canberra Ad-
ministration remains a clumsy passenger
to carry.
* * * *
British Tobacco ords. have been as
high as 535. 9d. during the past 18
months; last week they closed around
475. 3d., after being down to 455. Some
other sharemarket leaders have had the
following experience:
Highest Price, Last Week's
1/1/’37 to 25/6’38. Price.
Bank of N.S.W. .. £3B/7/6 £3l/7/6
Tooth 58/3 54/9
A/asian Paper ord. .. 39/3 28/6
Aust. Glass ... •• 97/3 91 -
Electrolytic Zinc .. 69/3 39/6
G. J..Coles .. •• HB/- 83 6
Goldsbrough, Mort .. 39/3 28/9
H. Jones .. .. 51/- 47/-
Howard, Smith .. 24/9 .-0/6
Yarra Falls .. •• 44/3 37/6
The drop in prices has obviously ac-
counted for much of the froth there
may have been in quotes at the crest or
the buying wave, and scrip is better buy-
ing to lhat extent.
* * * *
The sharp downs and ups in the mar-
ket lately have been more par-
ticularly confined to leaders
such as 8.H.P., British To-
bacco and the like. The whole
thing had the appearance of
an operators’ “raid” predomi-
nating, with an undercurrent
of genuine investors’ concern.
Thus, though the ensuing sup-
port for market leaders has
sent them up, there are many
cases of good, inactive stocks
which were slower to be
marked down, and are now
slower in recovery. If last
week’s recovery in prices for
active shares was justified, it
also seems warranted in the
case of inactive issues.
Broken Hill Prop, shares
rose to 91. 6d. at their highest
point in 1937. A one-for-
threecash issue at 30s. has been
made since then, reducing the ex rights
price basis to 765: Last week the old
shares sold as low as 555. and as high
as 60s. 3d., steadying around 60s. Quite a
substantial drop, even if trade should
become rather slacker for the time being.
At 60s. the yield offering is £4 3s. 2d.
per cent, on a \2\ p.c. div. basis, and
earnings lately have been more than twice
the div. requirements. A vast amount
of the capital is still doing little more
than development work.
* * * #
In Melbourne last week:
After the bottom seemed to have dropped
out of everything for a day or two, there
were some outstanding recoveries quite apart
from leaders like 8.H.P., British Tobacco,
Barriers and Electrolytic Zinc. Herald and
Weekly Times ords. rose to 595., the highest
quote for several weeks. Prestige, following
the annual meeting, saw a demand for its
ords. that couldn’t be satisfied at 12s. 6d. (after
sales at 11s.), and quotations closed at 12s. 6d.
buyer, 14s. seller. Australasian Paper ords.
at 28s. 6d. seemed the best buy on the market.
Div.-paying goldmines were in demand. Cocks
Eldorado shares sold in a string at better than
195., and Mt. Morgans firmed sharply, to 10s.,
on Friday. Though not so high as they have
been, Kalgoorlie stocks were firm. Emperor
and Loloma were steady around recent rates.
King Island Scheelite 45.-paids sold at
4s. 3d. and 4s. 2d.


Melbourne Steam.
The £1 ords. in Melbourne
Steam, offering at about 27 s. in
Melbourne and returning 5.2 p.c.,
seem attractive buying in the
steamship group.
CHEVROLET
REDUCES PRICES
ReceAii-b'uukuui Sales the Reason
HERE ARE THE FIGURES FOR JANUARY-MAY 1938
iLATEST AVAILABLE FIGURES FROM\
\ OFFICIAL REGISTRATION SOURCES)
CHEVROLET SALES 4423 . . . NEAREST COMPETITOR 3070
CHEVROLET -AUSTRALIA’S SALES LEADER BY 1353 SALES
STANDARD CHEVROLET
ness Ali-en closed “Turret op**
Coupe HEW 10W PRICE
fd
Alf-steef Sedan
Mwimmia
fd
(ALL Pfttces PLUS SALES fA*}
At these new prices Chevrolet is still further ahead as the value car of 1938 ! Record-breaking sales of this year’s
beautiful new models have effected further manufacturing economies and these savings are immediately passed on
to the public. Look at Chevrolet’s features —there’s everything you’d expect in a car costing £5O to £lOO more.
BEAUTY AND LUXURY are the keynotes of Chevrolet’s 193 S
design. It is a good-looking car—a car you will be proud to own
and drive. Its Holden all-steel bodies are the safest and strongest
built.
PERFORMANCE AND ECONOMY—Chevrolet challenges com-
parison of the performance and economy of its famous 6-cylinder
Overhead Valve Engine (proved by more than 12,000,000 owners)
with engines of any other type. It is obvious that 6 cylinders must
be more economical than a greater number of cylinders.
COMFORT AND SAFETY are emphasised in the 1938 Chevrolet.
Contributing features are Independent Front Wheel Springing—
the safest, most comfortable and dependable suspension system
yet devised. Perfected “Full-Contact” Hydraulic Brakes—the
safest braking system ever fitted to a motor car . . . You can’t
compare Hydraulic Brakes with the old-fashioned mechanical type.
Genuine Synchro-mesh Gears —silent, safe and absolutely“clashless.”
Hypoid Rear Axle Gears—tested and proved by millions of owners,
make possible flat floor in rear compartment, eliminating the
objectionable out-of-date hump.
These features are typical of Chevrolet quality . In every detail, Chevrolet is a truly modern car, and at these
new low prices it is the most outstanding value ever offered in Australia. Don't delay—see and drive Chevrolet
for 1938 ~ . it's a great buy! . GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
EASY TERMS AVAILABLE UNDER CONFIDENTIAL G. M. A.C. PLAN
- Mmyou 'll be Sllll further ahead with. .
a
"havra/et Far laaa
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced: by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia
C 638-44
The burden of this page’s song con-
cerning cost of living in relation to share
prices is this. With the cost of living (in
money figures) 14 p.c. lower than in 1929,
and the standard of living considerably
higher, our fighting-weight is such that
we pack a much heftier punch in keep-
ms; depression off than when we were in
the bloated condition of 1929. We can-
not avoid meeting setbacks (like the
present one affecting our export prices),
but we can be prepared for them ; and,
as mentioned elsewhere, if we must have
inflation anywhere it is better to have it
in production rather than in the costs of
production. Good shares, unlike com-
modifies, don’t incur storage charges in
their keeping, and, if they return a satis-
factory income now, over a period of
years they should continue to do so.
* * * *
Tin production is to be restricted to 35
p.c. of standard tonnages for the third
quarter of 1938, with 74 p.c. extra for
the Malay States and the Dutch East
Indies. Contribution to the buffer pool
during the quarter is to be 10 p.c. of
standard tonnages, excepting Malaya and
the N.E.1., whose contribution will appar-
ently be 2} p.c. The metal moved up to
£lBB in London last week, about £35
sterling above the lowest figure of the
year so far. Australian shows, not sub-
ject to restriction, should benefit from the
better price now prevailing. Statistical
position of the metal is improving.
4* '
Copper outputs outside of the U.S.A.
(and Australia) are to be dropped from
105 p.c. to 95 p.c. of standard tonnages,
and already there has been a firming in
the price of electrolytic copper. Mt.
Lyell will not suffer any restriction of
output, but should benefit from the in-
creased price; and last week the shares
recovered to 265., after being down to
225. 6d. Mt. Lyell has never shown a loss
during the past quarter-century, and with
costs at last year’s higher level of £47
12s. (Aust.) the electrolytic metal, even
at its lowest recent prices, has been pro-
fitable. Then there is income from in-
vestments —over £70,000 last year.
* * * *
Lead and spelter recovered to £l4 18s.
9d. and £l4 Is. 9d. respectively last week
in London. Barrier scrip responded in
good style, Souths still being more favored
by speculators than Norths.
* * * #
Zinc Corp. ords., an oft-chosen Barrier
stock of this page, sold at 87s. last Satur-
day, up 245. in a week. The Corp. is
Broken Hill’s up-and-coming mine, and
the scrip deserves to be bought any time
it is down heavily.
* * * *
Buying on the average of the years is
the only way to invest money. The
absurdity of doing anything else is shown
h, the practice of:buying Earner ™nes
tages are with the buyer ; when lead was
’’wll'h rh™
Investors who want income should take
the view that in buying industrial stocks
on the present market they are paying
generally 15 p.c. to 20 p.c. less than the
prices of a year ago, and that, if the
income now is well covered and a couple
of points above that offering on Consols,
the chances are that temporary fluctua-
tions in our economic welfare will not
adversely affect their holdings over a
year or two. The present industrial
market offers better purchases than the
boom-time one of early 1937.
* * * *
Australia isn’t nowadays so dependent
on overseas prices for exports as it was.
Undoubtedly the buying power of land-
men and the rise or fall in London funds
affect our prosperity one way or the
other ; but the fact that we are a much
more self-contained nation than in, say,
1914 operates as something in the nature
of a balance-wheel, and strengthens our
resisting-powers. Adversity has given
us this strength. During 1914-20 the war
and its aftermath gave our factories pro-
tection that politicians failed to give be-
fore ; and the slump of 1930-34 with its
drymg-up 0 f imports owing to languish-
gg prices, put many rz new
- d -f ™ * the^'pages show' tZ
=,eTa h whofe” 7
b d h P £ (han fal| in
-port price? (short of a calamity) is the
° an u P war sur^e 11 - s
ana r xatlon-
*** ‘ *
A. A. Boyd, director and former g.m.
of Mt. Morgan, has been appointed
chairman and managing-director of the
company following Eric Campbell s
voluntary retirement from the board,
Campbell has expressed his intention of
standing for re-election at a later date,
* * * *
j n th e first 24 weeks of 1938 Mt. Kasi.
on Vanua Levu, Fiji, milled 17,069 tons
for 3741 oz., exclusive of slags. The mill
return is equal to 4.4dwt., worth about
355. in Fiji currency. Total costs are re-
ported to be down to 20s. a ton new
(manager Peterson has certainly done
great work), and with 144,700 tons,
5.4dwt., proved, and 116,700 tons prob-
able—the mine still in the develop-
ment stage—the position is interesting,
There are 396,008 shares issued, valued
at 4s. in the market.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
India Awaits “The Day.”
(Condensed from an article by J. C. French in the
“National Review” for June .)
“We believe, therefore, that India must sever
British connection and attain complete independence.”
On January 26 this pledge was taken by masses of
Congressmen in great public meetings all over India.
The Congress party, which holds office in seven bf the
11 provinces, is composed of certain classes of Hindus,
distinguished for their aptitude in political intrigue
and hostility to the British Empire. Last year this
treasonable Independence pledge was forbidden by
the British Government. This year it is taken, pub-
lished and circulated all over the country. Congress
has advanced a step in its path of revolution.
The Congress is sincere when it says that it
does not want violence, provided the words at present
are added. Its preparations are not complete. Mr.
Gandhi on April 9 deprecated violence, for “we were
not ready to deliver the goods, for we were not ready
for matching our force against the British.” Congress
is not ready for action. Much yet remains to be done
for “The Day.”
At the annual All-India session Mr. Subhas Bose
succeeded Pandit Nehru as president of Congress.
Mr. Subhas Bose has several times been under deten-
tion for subversive political activities. His latest release
was last year. The most prominent member of the
Left Wing of the Congress is Mr. M. N. Roy. The
Congress press states that he joined the revolutionary
movement in 1903 and as a prominent member of
the Anusilan secret society was prosecuted in connec-
tion with several dacoities (armed-gang robberies).
“The outbreak of the World War saw him in a more
adventurous life, trying to bring about an armed
revolt in India. As leader of the Ghadr {Mutiny— in
the Indian Army) party, extensively organised both in
India and abroad, he negotiated with the Germans
during 1914-15 for landing arms and ammunition.”
Lenin called him to Russia, where he helped in the
establishment of the Comintern and in the training
ot revolutionaries for India. In 1931 in India he was
sentenced at Cawnpore to 12 years’ imprisonment
(subsequently reduced to six) in a Communist con-
spiracy case. He now calls for recruits for the Con-
gress, advising them to “educate” it.
The keynote of this year’s Congress session is
preparation for revolution. Premature attack is for-
bidden. How far away was any idea of “moderation”
can be judged from the words of the president, Mr.
Subhas Bose. He traced the weakening of the British
Empire, “the clay feet of a gigantic empire now stand
exposed as never before.” In unmistakable terms he
defined the goal of Congress policy “the severance
of the British connection.”
Hints, suggestions and whispers of preparation
lor “The Day” come from various quarters. In
December the Congress Revenue Minister of the
United Provinces reminded the peasants that they
were still slaves. In Bihar a great gathering of them,
previous to being addressed by three Congress Min-
isters, shouted “Long live Revolution.” The same
cry was raised by the university students when the
Revenue Minister of Bihar came to address them. The
Congress-controlled Calcutta Corporation has been
appointing released political prisoners as school-
teachers. The Chief Minister of the United Provinces
has recently said that a certificate of discharge from
imprisonment for a political offence was “a proper
passport” for Government employment. The Govern-
ment of Bombay has allowed the Congress members
in Sholapur to commemorate as martyrs the criminals
executed for their share in the murders of the atro-
cious riot of 1930, in which policemen were burnt.
The attitude of Islam in India to Congress is
worth attention. It was defined at the meeting in
Calcutta in April of the All-India Moslem League,
attended by the Chief Ministers of the Punjab and
Bengal. The latter referred to Congress as “sinister
lorces which aim at the complete enslavement of the
Moslem people of India.” He continued: “The suffer-
ings of Moslems are for Congress matters for mockery
and laughter.” “In Congress provinces riot after riot
lias laid the countryside waste, Moslem life, limb and
property have been lost, and blood has freely
flowed... .There the Moslems are leading their lives in
constant terror, overawed and oppressed.” He warns
his hearers not to trust “the so-called safeguards of
the Constitution.” For “British authority in India has
indeed ceased to function, and the sceptre is slipping
fast from British hands We must fight the battle
of Islam alone.” He also said: “The Moslem League
is not yet properly organised, but yet it is worth
hundreds of National Congresses. Each and everv
one of the League is a lion and a tiger and ready
to shed the last drop of his blood for the sake of
Islam.” These words receive a gloomy significance
from the numerous violent clashes between the Hindus
and Moslems during the last four months over a large
part of India. From Bombay to Bengal, from the
Punjab to Central India, come news of riots.
It is this deep Moslem antagonism to the Con-
gress, in deed as well as in word, which led Mr.
Gandhi on March 26 to make his sensational pro-
nouncement that Congress must represent the whole
of India: “Not until we make good that claim shall
we be in a position to displace the British Govern-
ment and function as an independent nation. This
proposition holds good whether we seek to displace
British rule by violent action or non-violent.” (It
should be noted that Mr. Gandhi envisages the possi-
bility of a violent revolution.) The Congress High
Command accepted this statement without protest.
For it realised that it emphasised one of the condi-
tions essential to any serious effort against England —
an alliance, however temporary, with the Moslems.
Japan’s Huge War Cost.
(Condensed from a London “Times” Trade and
Engineering supplement article by Barnard Ellinger.)
•
Can Japan stay the course? In her war with
China she has undertaken to subdue a people which
numbers one-fifth of the inhabitants of the world and
occupies a territory which, if the U.S.S.R. be excluded,
covers an area as large as Europe. Since the break-
down of the negotiations with the Chinese Govern-
ment undertaken last November by the German Am-
bassador, Japanese statesmen have been endeavoring
to accustom the nation to the idea that the war will
probably be very prolonged and will entail many
sacrifices.
During the past half-century Japan has been
engaged in four wars: the Sino-Japanese War of 1894,
the war with Russia in 1904, the Great War and the
conquest of Manchuria and the military adventure in
Shanghai in 1931-32. The total increase in Japan’s
national debt which these four wars entailed amounted
to a sum about equal to the increase in her national debt
which it is expected will take place this year. Between
the conquest of Manchuria and the outbreak of the
present war she had already doubled her national
debt ’ largely owing to military expenditure in antici-
Pation of events which were to come. It may then
be s i ,d that tbe Preparation for the present war and
the first year of its operations will have increased the
national debt of Japan twice as much as the increase
which was brought about by the four wars since 1893.
It j s sometimes said that a lack of money never
stops a war, but wars come to an end when the
economic burden on the people becomes so great that
it either causes a political upheaval or so reduces
the standard of living of the workers that their effi-
. ciency in manufacturing the necessary war material
becomes insufficient. All modern wars divert pro-
duction from the ordinary needs of the people to tiie
production of munitions, and when this diversion
becomes so great that their minimum needs cannot
be satisfied the economic machine breaks down. At
P resent > out of ever y five yen which the Japanese Gov-
ernment is spending four are being used for military
purposes.
The Ja P ane se Government has estimated its war
expenditure in the present financial year at the equiva-
lent of nearl Y £2,000,000 a day, an amount which is
approximately equal to the daily expenditure of the
Umted Kingdom during the first eight months of the
Great War - The Umted Kingdom’s expenditure of
£2,000,000 a day was equal to between one-third and
°ne-quarter of the total incomes which the British
people en i°y ed m 1914 > but £2,000,000 a day expendi-
L u /f w / a P an m6a . ns that the war 1S costing her four-
fifths of the total income of her people,
. J? ven lf J apan wins the Present war, unless she
I s abl ° t 0 brln S l } to a speedy conclusion, she may
find that ’ althou § h she may not have ruined herself
economically, the cost of the war will have been so
§reat that she wIU never be able to recover it by
an . y economic gains which the terms of peace may
bnng her *
TU e Ghost of War D^hts
rT OF VVar L ' eDtS *
• [l £ th ? ar * icl ® bere condensed from London “Even-
mg Standard Aylmer Vallance considers another of
those little matters which might have weight in deciding
what stand U.S.A. would take in the event of another
ward
Good relations between Britain and America will
never be secure so long as the ghost of war debts
walks in Congress.
To suppose that the war-debt controversy has
been forgotten in the United States is a profound
mistake. In most American eyes Britain is a defaulter,
That Britain should be making no move to end her
default vexes even the Anglophil American.
Since the crazy structure of inter-Governmental
indebtedness on war account crumbled to pieces in
the economic and financial crash of 1931, the aver-
age American has learned a lot. He realises that,
though the Balfour Note of 1922, when Britain told
her ex-Ally debtors that she would have to collect
from them enough to meet America’s demands, was tact-
lessly worded (in that it made Uncle Sam look like
the ultimate Shylock in the whole business), it repre-
sented in fact an offer on Britain’s part which was
both generous and sensible. He recognises that the
loans contracted in America by the Allies during the
war were taken in the form of goods ; and that re-
payment is impossible unless America accepts a
return flow of goods highly unwelcome to her own
manufacturers. He appreciates that Britain fared
pretty badly in the joint financing of the war.
Altogether Britain spent something like £1750
millions in U.S. during the war. More than half of
that expenditure she met by sales of gold and dollar
securities and by market loans in New York, all now
repaid. At the end of the war she owed the Ameri-
can Government £BOO millions for munitions, food
and materials, all bought at the inflated prices of war-
time. To the other Allies she had lent nearly £l5OO
millions.
Had the slate been wiped clean, as British Gov-
ernments proposed in 1920 and 1922, Britain stood
to lose heavily. But the slate was not wiped clean.
“They hired the money, didn’t they?” said Mr.
Coolidge. America insisted that her war debtors must
repay, with interest.
In February, 1923, Mr. Baldwin pledged Britain
over the next 62 years to pay America more than
£2700 millions —nearly three times the amount origi-
nally borrowed. Britain has received, in reparations
from Germany and from her ex-Ally debtors, about
£l9O millions. Meanwhile she has repaid to the
United States nearly £4OO millions —about half her
original debt, excluding interest.
Reparation payments are a closed chapter in
the book of history. Britain’s ex-Ally debtors will
pay her no more. Of the £l5OO millions she lent, all
but the £7O millions so far received can be written
off as an irrecoverable debt. A fresh British Debt
Mission would have good grounds in equity for argu-
ing with President Roosevelt that the whole of the
debt outstanding should be cancelled. But to persuade
Congress to endorse outright cancellation is not
practical politics. It would, however, be legitimate to
point out that (excluding interest) Britain has re-
covered less than 5 per cent, of her war advances,
whereas America has got back at all events one-
quarter.
America might also reasonably be reminded that
in 1917 Senators and Congressmen were declaring that
repayment of war loans to the Allies mattered little in
comparison with the consideration that the money
would be used to fight America’s battle. It would be
injudicious to dwell on the fact that pre-Civil War
debts owed to British investors by the Southern States
are still in default. The less Britain argues with
America about the debt, the better. The wisest policy
is to assume that most Americans are aware that the
transfer of anything like the £2300 millions still
nominally due under the unrealistic Baldwin settle-
ment is both politically and economically right off
the map. The main, thing is for Britain to make a
move and “show willing.”
Suppose the British Government were to say to
America “We borrowed £BOO millions and have re-
paid £4OO millions. We have settled an old dispute
with Ireland by accepting a relatively small, prac-
ticable lump-sum payment. If you will deal with us
in the same sensible way we will ship gold to you, or
—if you prefer—we will raise the dollars without dis-
turbing the exchanges by floating in Wall-street as
big a British loan as is manageable—say fifty, or
possibly even a hundred, million pounds.”
I am sure that the response in the United States
would be favorable. And from Britain’s standpoint
the cost of fulfilling a settlement on these lines would
be more than balanced by the great gain of finally
removing a stupid, poisonous thorn which will other-
wise go on festering in Anglo-American relations.
England Helps Franco.
[Condensed from the “Nineteenth Century,” this
article by Robert Sencourt explains the help Franco has
had from Britain, not for any “ideological” reasons, but
as an ordinary matter of business, and describes also the
terms under which Italy and Germany have backed
Franco. It also explains why the oft-paraded bogey of
future Italian power in Spain should be regarded as no
more than a bogey.]
In normal years Spain’s balance of trade with
England is some £7,000,000 in Spain’s favor. That
balance in 1937 was still £7,000,000, and almost all
of this went to Franco’s Spain.
Few Englishmen have realised how dependent on
England’s support Franco has been. They know that
he has received aeroplanes from Germany and from
Italy: they believed that these were a present given to
ensure Spanish help in a coming war, and might
involve the Balearic Islands. They did not know that
they have been paid for by exports from Spanish mines
—exports essential to the munitions of Germany and
Italy; nor that these exports have also been made to
England at the normal rate.
The plain fact is that the friendship of Franco’s
territory is worth having for England as well as Ger-
many and Italy. England’s defence would be embar-
rassed without the support of Franco’s mines.
Franco is equally conscious of the financial sup-
port he owes to us, and, indeed, the relation of the
two organisms is far closer than our democrats have
dreamed. And yet they should have realised that
Franco’s aeroplanes, whatever their source, would be
useless without petrol. Could that petrol come from
Nemesis & "Cronk-News”
“If Nemesis overtook purveyors of false news
the world would be a much happier and more secure
habitation.” —London "Times” Trade arid Engineering
supplement for June.
This same month Nemesis Out catch up with at
least one effort at false news purveying. Westralian
Agent-General Hal Colebatch spoke at an Overseas
Teague meeting at Cardiff. A “ News-Chronicle”
reporter did the address, and a slab of his “report”
was cabled to Australian papers which hold the
“Cronk-News” to be a “source of authoritative
standing.”
Next thing one of these papers had a further
cable headed “What Sir Hal Really Said.”
Sir Hal Colebatch was misrepresented in a
recent cable message, which was based almost
wholly on a report by the “News-Chronicle.”
Then followed a series of “corrections,” which are
set out in a Plain English.
On such reports as that “corrected” Australian
press cable services have drawn heavily for years.
They have been the origin of the most violent war
scares and the most misleading misinforniato'n on
wars actually being fought and many other matters.
The “Times” adds: —
Probably the most practicable way of meeting
misrepresentation is effective distribution of fact.
That and worth-while opinion form the basis of
“Uncabled Additions.”


&
s(t
\j
\Zh
i
&
CS
4408.
IF YOU’RE WANTING COMFORT.
Not just good fitting, but soft, roomy, cushionlike comfort. Try this new Abbey
Capless Boot.
When you feel the soft wallaby-skin upper mould around your foot, and your toes
spread naturally in their easy-fitting fronts, you realise what comfort really is.
An Abbey model in Black Wallaby Skin, made in full and half sizes, and also in wide
and extra-wide fittings. Price 37/6
“IF IT’S AN ABBEY SHOE IT’S A GOOD SHOE.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
RUBEROID AGENTS
are equipped to give you a complete roofing
and flooring service —to quote you for any
type of Ruberoid Roof and to undertake the
work promptly and efficiently.
ROOFING
&m VER W E AaR P Loom N.C
EVERWEAR
FLOORING
Permanent floor covering in
three finishes: Red, Grey,
Mica. Guaranteed waterproof
and unaffected by white ants.
Can be laid on any floor
surface, and is specially suit-
able for verandahs, bath-
rooms and passages.
Representative :
Mr. G. L. Wilms, Box 368755, Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents:
BRISBANE : Asphaltes & Allied Products, Ltd., P.O. Box
I 139 p. John Reid & Nephews, P.O. Box 198 c.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE: A. W. Sandford & Co., Ltd., P.O. Box 418 c.
MELBOURNE : E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., 384-96,
Little Collins Street.
SYDNEY: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., Box 3302 pp.
Italy or from Germany? It is a very generous supply,
and it came from somewhere.
The economic facts are paralleled by political
ideals. Freedom is prized above all price by those
who speak the English language. They resent in any
country any menace to the growth and glory of
liberty. But they seldom ask how much of it exists
for a man who walks in danger of his life or fails
to get his daily bread. When those are lacking, a
Parliamentary system may be more an incubus than
a privilege. That is the situation which Franco came
to remedy.
It is often supposed in England that the “Axis”
had the most sinister plans aimed at France and
England through Spain. No evidence for such sinister
intentions has yet been brought forward. None but
vague and unlikely hypotheses can be suggested as
the terms on which Franco accepted foreign help—
whether it was the English aeroplane which brought
him from Teneriffe to Tetuan, or the Italian aero-
plane which brought him some weeks later from
Tetuan to Seville.
Leaving the wild conjectures which have been
current, we may accept a much simpler explanation
of German and Italian intervention: a Bolshevist Spain
would immensely have strengthened the resources of
the Moscow agencies in France, where, even before
the Spanish war broke out, one saw the Communist
agitation to be menacing, especially in and around
Marseilles. If Spain, and then France, were to become
Bolshevist, Mussolini would find that the Straits of
Gibraltar, through which pass four-fifths of his sea-
borne trade, were a gateway likely to close against
him. With the Balearic Islands and Spanish Morocco
as air bases, as well as the coast of Spain, the whole
Western Mediterranean would pass into the hand
of that hostile force to quell which Mussolini first rose
to power.
If this situation was a warning to Mussolini, it
was hardly less obvious to Hitler. Hitler also rose to
power to quell Communism by taking many of its
social objects and making war on its organisations.
If Russia’s force were increased on the other side of
Germany by the highly-developed organism of France,
Hitler’s position would be a very nasty one indeed.
Apart from this, there was a German colony of 30,000
in Barcelona. Hitler had reasons as urgent as those
of Mussolini for defending himself in Spain. Both
were also interested in the products of the Spanish
mines. There is strong reason to think that the in-
terests of both Germany and Italy in Spain were
kindred to our own interests there. Italy would not
be in agreement now, had her aims been sinister.
Events in Europe have cleared up the situation
so far as to enable us to look with clear gaze at the
prospect of Spain at peace with herself and with other
nations. Her friendship with Italy need no longer
disturb us any more than it did in the days of King
Alfonso. Mr. Eden’s resignation came too late to
save the independence of Austria ; but that very fact
has had its compensations. It warned the Italian
people so dramatically of the danger of being
on bad terms with England that Mussolini was very
glad to come to terms.
Our strategic preoccupation with Spain, there-
fore, is no longer dependent upon what Italy is doing
there: the friendship of those who have a special
interest in the Mediterranean is cemented by the com-
mon concern which they must all feel henceforward
in the future of Trieste. Rivalries in the Mediter-
ranean are neither normal nor even feasible. It is
imperative both for the trade on which people live
and for reasons of high strategy that we should be
on good terms with France, with Italy and with Spain ;
and all these with one another.
J. Bull’s Shipping Decline.
[“Disquieting facts” concerning the decline in British
shipping, published in “Uncabled Additions” (28/4/’3B)
from London Chamber of Shipping annual report, are
expertly examined by Sir Archibald Hurd in the article
here condensed from the “Nineteenth Century” for June.
The writer is an outstanding authority; author of,
among many other shipping works, the Official History
of the Merchant Navy in the War.]
During the Great War the Allies had eventually
at their disposal practically all the world’s merchant
vessels, except those of Germany and Austria, and
yet it was the lack of ships, in spite of the co-opera-
tion of the shipyards in the United States in making
good the losses sustained at sea, which nearly brought
them to defeat. There is no assurance that in a future
struggle Britain would have any maritime Power
as its ally, except France, whose seagoing tonnage
is inconsiderable. Yet in the. past 20 years a decrease
has occurred of 3,500,000 tons gross in British vessels,
ranging from 100 tons gross upwards. Also, a reduc-
tion of, roughly, 59,000 men occurred between 1911
and 1936.
In all the elements of commercial sea-power
Britain is weaker in relation to its needs, and also in
relation to other countries, than at any period in its
history. The position is becoming more serious every
month, which means that stage by stage the founda-
tions on which the mobility of the Fighting Ser-
vices rests, as well as the well-being of the civil popu-
lation, are being undermined. And while British ton-
nage has decreased, tonnage under foreign flags has
increased —by 1100 ships and 8,000,000 tons.
In the Great War Britain had to place many
ships at the disposal of France, Russia, United States
and Italy, and there is no saying that we might not
have again to aid countries associated with us. It has
been implied that we could charter—in other words,
borrow—ships from neutrals. In the Great War,
when we had so much more shipping than to-day, we
were driven by our dire necessity to coerce neutrals
to lend us tonnage, and we were able to do so mainly
because they needed British coal, whereas to-day most
of their ships use oil fuel.
When ::i the war British maritime supremacy
was sacrificed to the Allied cause, other nations
came to the conclusion that this was their opportunity
of improving their position at sea. In order to hasten
the expansion of their shipping, they decided to pay
subsidies, enabling new ships to be built and operated
on the trade routes, from which British shipping had
been withdrawn for use in European waters. At
length the subventions paid by the United States,
France, Italy, Japan and other countries reached
£30,000,000 a year, and to this extent British shipping,
unsubsidised, was handicapped in its struggle to regain
its pre-war pre-eminence.
Another cause of the change in the balance of
commercial sea-power was the vindictive treatment
of British shipping by the Government. For the losses
they suffered at sea, British shipowners were paid,
under the Government War Risks Insurance Scheme,
£134,000,000 less than the amount which they had to
spend in replacing the ships which had been sunk.
The industry was also subjected to Excess Profits Duty
even after the struggle was over —in fact, to 1920
The financial reserves accumulated by owners in other
countries out of their uncontrolled profits were so
large that they were able to increase their tonnage —
at the expense of the British shipping industry, which
was manacled and bled white.
The proportion of trade in and out of British ports
carried in British ships has steadily declined. On the
great ocean trade routes, British shipping has had
to contend against every phase of nationalistic policy
practised by foreign nations, and conspicuously by
Soviet Russia.
Even in the Empire trades, the British position
is threatened more and more ; Japan has captured
from 60 to 90 p.c. of certain important inter-Empire
trades and is still making headway. One British ser-
vice in the Pacific Ocean has had to be withdrawn
owing to heavily subsidised American competition,
and Lord Craigmyle has warned the Government that
the existence of two others is threatened.
All the plans for strengthening the Crown’s forces
by sea, land and air will be in vain unless we possess,
in any emergency, sea-carrying capacity sufficient for
our needs under war conditions. Despite Britain’s
favorable strategical and tactical conditions in the last
war, 7,750,000 tons gross of British shipping were
sunk with the sacrifice of 14,287 lives, while the loss
under all flags was 12,543,392 tons gross. The Allied
cause was brought near to defeat, not by the failure
of the naval, military or aerial forces, but by the want
of merchant tonnage, though the inhabitants of the
British Isles were rationed with increasing severity
from 1915 onwards. Food supplies became the vital
issue; we won by a narrow margin. Germany was
defeated, in the last analysis, by hunger; denied the
use of the seas, she was forced to capitulate.
Apart from the essential services which British
shipping thus renders to an island people, it has in
the past been its greatest export industry —greater
than cotton, coal, iron or steel —in the form of freights
earned overseas, and has provided employment, ashore
and afloat, for about 1,000,000 trained workers, besides
maintaining that sea instinct which is a vital charac-
teristic of an overcrowded island country, the centre
of a world-wide Empire whose only highways are the
seas and oceans of the world. Neither we nor, in
fact, our partners in the Empire can live without
ships, and that condition involves the maintenance of
efficient and well-manned shipbuilding and ship-
repairing establishments. In all these respects this
country is becoming weaker, and to that extent less
assured of safety in spite of the rearmament move-
ment.
“Idiot’s Delight.”
[ln his letter here condensed from London “Daily
Telegraph” Sir Ernest Benn makes a pungent contribution
to the increasing opposition to war yelp, dealt with
in a Bulletin leader this week.]
Where does this Idiot’s Delight, this war talk,
come from? What are its origins? Is there some
sinister force in the background driving us into the
inevitable? If so, who are these merchants of death?
What puzzles is that determination to fight is
most strongly developed in the breasts of those who
talk most about Peace.
As it is impossible to fight without somebody
to fight and something to fight for, a selection has to
be made between all the available excuses, and —and
here is the most curious fact in all this muddle —we
in England are leaving the selection of enemies and
causes to our friends in the various parties of the
Left.
There is, for instance, no question of fighting
for Democracy, for we are to be allied with Russia
if most of my fire-eating peace friends have their way.
Herr Hitler is to be fought to re-establish the League
of Nations, in curious disregard of the undoubted
fact that Herr Hitler is the only solid outcome of
all the labors of the League. Our natural grief at the
plight of the German Jews must be exploited till it
leaves us no room for sympathy with the similar or
worse plight of the Spanish Catholics.
In all this muddle I come to the conclusion that
it is not enough to arm, we must also have a few
clear ideas as to what it is all about. We should
rearm ourselves with a little of our traditional balance
and wisdom and remember that, while there may be
much to condemn in France, Germany, Italy and
elsewhere, the way of peace is to search for the good
which is also to be found in these same places.
In Victoria’s time, when we were the recognised
guardians of the peace of the world, we summed the
whole thing up in a popular ditty:
“We don’t want to fight,
But by Jingo if we do.”
Thus we invented Jingoism, a state of mind
which, if my recollection serves, contained much more
of the spirit of peace than I can find in modern col-
lectivism.
An Aged Fire-eater Debunked.
[This unusually scathing fragment of debunking of
a former British P.M. occurred in a London “Times”
leader, which, going on to tear a Lloyd George sabre-
rattling speech to pieces as a “travesty of recent
history,” said of a whole group of his outpourings:
“Every one of those statements is either a distortion or
the direct contrary of the truth.”]
In a speech delivered on the windy top of Mil-
ford Common Mr. Lloyd George described himself as
an old fellow in his 76th year, for whom it was sad to
see the British flag becoming a jest of the nations.
A sad sight, certainly, for any who may see it
—incidentally the British flag has been flown a good
deal lately on some not very British ships. But to most
people it is almost as sad to see how much nonsense a
once-brilliant politician can pack into a single oration.
The old fellow was after all Prime Minister, and
people abroad may ascribe more importance to his
words than we at home who realise how great is the
difference between the country’s leader in war-time
and the disgruntled critic of to-day.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In B. 2/12/’36 a contributor pointed
out that mares were conspicuously suc-
cessful in 1902, the year of the Great
Drought, and the two following seasons,
mentioning among others Wakeful, Air
Motor, Queen of Sheba, Marvel Loch,
Vanity Fair, Pendant, Chantress, Rose
Petal and Sweet Nell. He compared with
their achievements the successes of
Capris, Amalia and Alinura during the
current season, when a large part of
Australia was drought-stricken, and sug-
gested that “mares will go on winning
big races, as they did in 1902, 1903 and
afterwards.” The theory advanced was
that “racing mares and fillies and stud
matrons and filly foals stand drought
and post-drought conditions better than
horses of the other sex.”
Whether there is any substance in it
or not, mares have done well since
the foregoing was set down in print. They
were first, second and third in the 1937
Doncaster, and, though Silver Rose, the
runner-up, lost her form after winning a
race at that Randwick meeting, the
others, Sarcherie (first) and Evening Mist,
have been very payable propositions.
But the most successful representative
of her sex has been Hamurah, who is by
Salmagundi-Hamurana. She went up to
Brisbane for the Doomben Newmarket
with the remarkable record of seven races
won in Sydney this season, the Doncaster
among them. She made her score eight
by winning the Doomben Newmarket,
now the richest six-furlong race in the
Commonwealth.
Aurie’s Star was favorite at 9 to 2.
Thurles Lad and Jocular being at 6 to 1
and Mala (backed from 100 to 3) 8 to 1.
Outside the stable commission, which
wasn’t particularly large, there was little
support for Hamurah at 14 to 1. Hen-
derson, the trainer, who has her on lease
for the duration of her career on the
turf, had put up a little-known New-
castle jockey, Heath.
Aurie’s Star was soon in front, and he
set up a lead of five lengths. The weight
and the track, which was a bit soft,
settled him, and Hamurah, whose jockey
had steered a course on a comparatively
dry part, dashed past him. Bahwing (20
to 1) and Spear Chief (14 to 1), the
latter particularly, finished well, but
neither ever looked like catching her, and
she won by a length from Bahwing,
Spear Chief being another neck off. The
time was lmin. 14|sec.
Mala, whom Alan Cooper was watch-
ing from an invalid chair, was another
who came home well, winding up sixth.
On Newmarket form, Spear Chief, his
9st. lib. notwithstanding, should win the
Doomben Cup, especially as he seems to
have got over his objection to the course.
If his owners decide to reserve the three-
year-old for southern racing, Mala may
win. Cooranga and Silk Felt have chances.
Tote divs. on Hamurah (for 10s.) were
£ll ss. and £7 6s.—a wonderful price
for a place.
* * * *
Jim Tanner, the Canterbury Park han-
dicapper, made a good job of the weights
for Saturday’s meeting ; anyway, six of
the eight events provided exciting finishes.
As a rule, Sydney hurdle races are easy
for the winner, but at Canterbury The
Freak (8 to 1) won in the last stride.. He
is owned and was bred by Dick Wootton,
and is well named. As a yearling he had
a twisted foot, and was put aside for use
as a station hack. Time straightened the
foot sufficiently to admit of the animal’s
racing, and he has won on the flat as
well as over the brush.
Rosehill trainer Haylen allowed Water
Waggon to run in the Flying Welter
merely to give his apprentice Cook, a
Singleton lad, a chance to add to his
experience in races. Haylen had backed
the nag for a mid-week handicap and
“done” his money. At Canterbury the
boy rode a well-judged race. Heroic
Faith and Brazandt settled themselves
galloping in front; then Grey Derby
shot to the front. He tired a bit under
his 9st., and Water Waggon, running
on strongly, beat the strawberry roan by
half a head. Envoy was third, ahead of
Cloudy, who needs a longer journey and
another track. Water Waggon was nomi-
nally at 20 to 1 in the ring; his tote div.,
for ss. (one of three), was £5 17s. 3d.
Two picnic performers, Ashbridge
from Albury and St. Robert from Wagga,
had a spirited tussle in the Ladies’ Brace-
let. Riverina pastoralist Graham rode
his 99th winner when he landed Ash-
bridge half a head in front of St. Robert;
Officer was a poor third. Ashbridge (5
to 2) is owned by a Sydney sportsman,
J. L. Ledgerwood, who has a property
at Ganmain. The Palmist, one of Jim
Pike’s team, failed to see out the nine
furlongs after leading most of the way.
Tapestry (5 to 1) had to run a track
record to win the Canterbury Handicap.
McMenamin sat still on him until they
were approaching the half-mile post; then
he began to drive Tapestry along on the
outside. Responding gamely, the old and
much-travelled nag beat Bachelor King
and Fountain cleverly. It should not be
long before Fountain wins ; he was last
most of the way. Gold Spark failed
to stay the distance (a mile and “three”),
as did Dulcedo, whose rider was too
anxious to get to the front.
Divisions of the Juvenile Handicap
went to Gambier (10 to 1) and Astound-
ing (4 to 1). Gambier is raced on lease
by a Moree pastoralist, H. Meynink ; he
is a well-grown son of Veilmond and
looks a stayer. Mrs. Dolly Clayton owns
Astounding, a big Sion gelding with
plenty of pace.
Bronze Head (8 to 1) and Bramol (2
to 1) won their divisions of the Park
Stakes. The former turned the tables
on Sign On, who had beaten him at Men-
angle; Bramol, who is owned by a Wel-
lington pastoralist, N. H. Smith, got a
lucky run on the rails when the oppo-
sition swung wide at the home turn.
* * * *
Actor, a young French horse imported
by Sol Green, is reckoned equal to Ajax
at a mile and a half by the V.A.T.C.
handicapper and superior at two miles
by the V.R.C. man. The pair have 9st.
71b. in the Caulfield Cup; in the Mel-
bourne Cup Actor gets 9st. 61b. and
Ajax 9st. 41b. Both have
a high opinion of the four-year-old
group; for example, Hua’s Cup burdens
are 9st. 41b. at Caulfield and 9st. lib. at
Ffemington, Avenger’s 9st. 31b. and 9st.
lib., Spear Chief’s 9st. 21b. and 9st. They
don’t rate the three-year-olds so highly ;
Nuffield, handicapped as the best of
them, has 7st. 101 b. at Caulfield and 7st.
71b. at Flemington—the same as Fort
Regal.
The A.J.C. official heads Epsom weights
with Young Idea (9st. 71b.) and the Met-
rop. with Actor (9st. 51b.). In handicap-
ping Lynch Law (Bst. 81b.) and Rod-
borough (Bst. 41b.) for the Epsom, he has
ignored form.
Early fancies for the two Cups are
Ajax and Bristol (Bst. 31b.) or L’Aiglon
(Bst. 21b.); for the Epsom and Metrop.
Troy (7st. 21b.) and Bristol (Bst. 41b.) or
Plutus (7st. 21b.).
* * * *
With Koke King and Gnair looming
so largely in the limelight, South Aus-
tralia has an exceptionally good chance
of taking both Grand Nationals at Flem-
ington. Gnair admittedly is a “bottler”
over fences, while Koke King gave an
eye-opening display in the Port Phillip
Hurdle at Williamstown on Saturday.
Koke King started at 25 to 1, sur-
prising in view of his two wins, with
list. 21b. and list. 51b., at Mount Gam-
bier on June 8 and June 15. The Wil-
liamstown handicapper allotted the Stand
By gelding lOst. 31b. —his National im-
post. Pooley Bridge was raised one
pound, to 12st. 21b. Recent form of
Koke King manifestly did not impress
the weight-adjuster. The impression
among punters was that he needed a
longer journey than the two miles, his
Mount Gambier victories over that dis-
tance being but narrowly earned. Last
year he had a comfortable win in the
A.R.C. Grand National Hurdle, 2j miles
and 190 yards.
Koke King was never farther back
than fifth in a field of 14. Usually he
drops out early and comes with a finish-
ing run, as befits a National aspirant.
J. H. Davis has penalised the gelding
only 31b. at Flemington. His chance
with lOst. 61b. looks really excellent.
Present trainer is H. W. Torr, who pre-
pared Wynette for her Caulfield and
Williamstown Cup triumphs in 1923.
Torr does not lack experience with
jumpers. Nine years ago he took second
place (to Kentle) in the V.R.C. National
Hurdle with his own horse, Chumree. A
full brother to Koke King, Pride of the
Plain, ended a promising career by hav-
ing to be destroyed as the result of a
fall in the V.R.C. Royal Steeple on
June 13.
Turf Boy (second) and Pooley Bridge
(fifth) did best of those that finished
behind Koke King. It was Turf Boy’s
first outing over the battens for a con-
siderable period. Alex. Fullarton had
the mount and presumably will ride him
in the National, as H. J. Thompson
weighed out for Pooley Bridge at Wil-
liamstown. Whatever attacked Pooley
Bridge at Caulfield a week before and
caused Fullarton to pull him up during
the race could not have had any lasting
effect. “Popley” gave his nearest rival
15 lengths’ start through swerving round
when the barrier rose on Saturday. He
made up his ground and cleared his
hurdles so well that trainer and part-
owner “Bert” Foulsham reckoned he’ll
take the National.
Flemington fences are brush; those
at Williamstown solid. The W.R.C.
didn’t stage a crosscountry event, but
National candidates were catered for by
a Steeplechasers’ Flat. Scardus (Hebrus-
Dame Lybia), owned by S. O. Wood, the
club’s vet., and bred by A. T. Creswick,
his father-in-law, registered a runaway
victory. Scardus is trained by the former
amateur F. M. Doran, who had ridden
him in Hunt Club events. At 5 to 1 he
was next in demand to Ben’s Fort (7
to 2) and Green Cape (fours), who had
a thrilling fight for second money—it
went to Ben’s Fort. The pair are in
the big event on July 9, for which Green
Cape has been pressing Gnair in favorit-
ism. Gnair was quoted at 100 to 1 in
the Point Cook Handicap and ran accord-
ingly. He simply had a tuning-up gallop.
Lady Kooringal (Windbag - Lady
Thrill) reaped the reward of consistency
by an all-the-way win in the Point Cook
Handicap at 7 to 1. Her six previous
attempts had resulted in five seconds. On
the post she had five lengths to spare
from Aitchengee (9 to 2 favorite), with
Dick Bradfield’s El Bruno (twelves) a
length farther off. Desert Chief faded
out after being fourth at the bend. Con
Devon finished just outside the money
and may be worth following. Dema-
gogue, solidly backed, got into hopeless
trouble through a slow beginning.
Demotic had a weak position in the
market and wasn’t prominent in running.
The Juvenile Handicap went to Danne-
virke (7 to 2 favorite) by less than a
length from High Time (tens), third prize
going to the outsider, Merridale. Jour-
ney was 55 yards beyond a mile, and
served as a test of stamina in the rising
three-year-olds. Maorilander Jack Fryer,
who trains Dannevirke, snared third
place in the Esplanade Welter with Fly-
ing Chief (sevens). He is having a suc-
cessful spin on Melbourne courses.
Beaustone, stablemate of Regular
Bachelor, topped the Esplanade Welter
quotes at fives. He shaped disappoint-
ingly. Fancifort, a 10-to-l shot, beat
the fast-finishing Chilperic (eights) by a
neck. By Simeon’s Fort, he belongs to
W. V. Manton and his son Jack, who
conduct a Bourke-street emporium. The
elder Manton won the A.J.C. Derby and
Victoria Derby with Salitros, who raced
in the same colors as Fancifort.
Clanhaven, owned and trained by H. W.
Gabell, comfortably beat Neuve Chapelle
and Shere Khan in the Maiden Hurdle.
Odds of 7 to 4 proved liberal about this
promising timber-topper. Gabell with-
drew him from the National Hurdle last
Friday. Next season we may see Cian-
haven shine over fences.
* * * *
The most interesting feature of the
Moonee Valley racing was the Fund
Welter success of Sinuoma, the brother
to Amounis. Harry Cousens has per-
severed with Sinuoma for several seasons,
racing him at provincial meetings in poor
company with scant reward. However,
the brown, who bears no physical resem-
blance to Amounis, has suddenly struck
excellent sprinting form. Solidly sup-
ported at fives, he outpaced the favorite,
Buoyancy, and beat that rival by four
lengths with a lot in hand. Lord Jeving-
ton was third. Great Legend never
threatened danger. But Great Legend
is a class horse and should do better
soon.
Second division of the Fund Welter
went to Ngapuna, a four-year-old daugh-
ter of Drake. When forging to the front
she collided with Eastern Spark and
forced him on to the rails. The stewards
dismissed a protest.
The middle - distance Compensation
Handicap resulted in a well-earned win
for Rivette. Maluno (9 to 2) led into
the straight. Coming from the rear and
on the outside of the field, Rivette
smothered Tom Bradfield’s candidate and
scored by a substantial margin, with the
unfancied Cackle third.
Maluno had been taken to the front
too soon by his apprentice rider, and that
contributed to Rivette’s triumphing over
difficulties in running. Rivette is by Ron-
sard, a stallion imported by the late
L. K. S. Mackinnon for the stud which
he conducted too briefly at Maribyrnong ;
her dam, Riv, twice winner of the Ascot
Thousand, was one of the gamest ponies
that ever looked through a bridle.
F. H. (“Son”) Lewis, whose brother
Bob made pages of Australian turf his-
tory as a lightweight jockey and has not
yet formally announced his retirement
from the saddle, credited A. J. Staughton
with the first division of the Three-year-
old Handicap through the agency of
Diablote (Gay Lothario-Mnebiad), bred
by the owner.
Diablote, ridden by Keith Voitre,
downed a red-hot favorite in Comic
March, owned by a Melbourne barrister
who races as “F. Falcon.” Closing quote
of Comic March was 5 to 4, with sevens
bar one on offer and Diablote at eights.
In running 10 to 1 was laid on Comic
March, but he tired over the last 50 yards
and lost by half a neck. Our Boy was
third. Hathersage ran fourth after being
a clefar last. He needs a longer distance
than six furlongs.
F. W. Hoysted had an unlucky after-
noon as trainer. Heroic’s Pride fell at
the first obstacle in the Trial Hurdle, for
which he started an even-money favorite.
Later on Heroic Star, another high-priced
horse Hoysted trains for A. Crofts, got
badly left in a division of the Three-
year-old Handicap (won by Privilege),
and the stewards decided to ban him at
metropolitan meetings.
“Bramall Lane”: The worthlessness of
comparative cricket records is seen in the
news that Hammond has for the sixth
time scored two separate hundreds in a
match, equalling Hobbs’s achievement.
When bowlers were at least 50 per cent,
greater craftsmen than they are to-day,
to score this double century was a rare
and worthy feat. To-day, considering
the quality of much of the county bowl-
ing, as shown up by the Australians,
the wonder is that leading batsmen don’t
bring off the double every match.
* * * *
“Ex - Englishman ”: I wrote (B.
27/5/ ’36) when Aston Villa was knocked
out of the Soccer League’s First
Division: “The position can fairly be
indicated by supposing N.S.W. to be-
come so hopeless at cricket that at last
it is pushed out of the Sheffield Shield
matches, and told to go and play with
Westralia and Tas. Incredible? Yes, but
so was the other. All the same, I am
willing to bet that within two seasons
Villa will have fought its way back into
the upper grade.” The bet would have
been won. Aston (which the English
humorists had begun to alter to “Sat on”)
has taken exactly two years to come back.
*** ' *
Badminton was played in Victoria
before the war, but the first Melbourne
association wasn’t formed until 1921.
Now there are more than 3000 regular
players in the metropolitan area and
many more in such places as Geelong
and Bendigo. Tasmania, in proportion
to population, is the strongest badminton
State. South Australia has players and
Newcastle (N.S.W.) an enthusiastic asso-
ciation.
o Continued on page 32.)
FOR FLEMINGTON.
G.N. Hurdle: Euphorbus, 1 ;
Koite King, 2 ; Pooley Bridge, 3.
Iramoo Handicap: Othello ; next;
Parodier.
Winter Handicap: Keeping
Watch; next, Beechwood.


s*
1
m
i
&'
n
B
wttßm
iH
MB
m
■
■
m
■byM
40#*'
' ■ Sii
s
■
■
■
I
■
V" Hi
lit
■
■MM
—i i
Hi
■
' y: boM
m
■ -
■
M
■
■
.
ill
-v^
mmmmM
m
u
■
■
111
Hi
n
H
Hi
■
1
■
n
'v ■■ '■■:•;■
ms
H i:.
WSBI.
m
i ■
■a.;:.
H
.
Hi
m
m
■
mm
r
* * «#
There is plenty to laugh at — twenty-eight cartoons; seven of them in full-
colour. MAN is the nation’s belt-stretcher. But there is a great deal more
than just laughter in its 160 pages. There is food for thought and enter-
tainment. Australia’s lon L. Idrizss edits and writes for MAN’S
AUSTRALASIAN A section every month. And there are a dozen other
specialists who contribute regularly each month to MAN’S solid , satisfying
entertainment-quota.
☆
28 CARTOONS (7 Full Colour); International Affairs;
Australasiana; CameraMAN; Articles; Fiction; 160 pages
JULY- NOW ON SALE
Subscription rates to MAN: 12 months, 22/-; 6 months, 12/-, including postage to any address throughout the
Commonwealth and New Zealand. Address correspondence to MAN Magazine, 60 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


INSTANT IGNITION
Price 5/- each.
Made in Australia under
Bosch Expert Supervision
PYROX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
2/3/37
iSSK
O 0»
*o(o*s
ns*-
si&*
W****
■ft
a\o\H&
if*'*
0
flU*** 6
s^vt
E 52
£«2
STfea
si
cviS
as
GV*l
se>
t&S
7®*'
M.Q. and Rafferty
Louis Retains the Title
Out of the welter of jumbled accounts
of last week’s heavyweight title fight at
the Yankee Stadium, N’Yark, about the
one perfectly clear thing is that the negro
Joe Louis retained his title by terrifi-
cally hard hitting which included a punch
that at one time would have been dubbed
a foul. A fearful right, the blow caught
the German challenger, Max Schmeling,
with such force over the kidneys that it
fractured two of the segments of bone that
protrude from the vertebrae of the spine.
There’s been a good deal of monkey-
ing with the rules in recent years, mostly
to the improvement of fighting. Among
other things, the foul rule has been
watered down a lot. The foul hasn’t
been exactly declared fair, but it’s no
longer taken as seriously as it used to
be, especially in America. Even in Aus-
tralia the general interpretation is that,
provided the fouled boxer is able to con-
tinue, the worst the fouler can suffer is
to lose the round.
Naturally, “accidental” fouls are be-
coming common, and such a thing as an
eye cut by a head foul can lead to the
fouled boxer being beaten by subsequent
perfectly fair punching. With loss of a
round the only likely penalty, it becomes
well worth the dirty fighter’s while let-
ting one loose for anywhere. By moral
as well as actual effect it can well be the
means of his winning.
The kidney blow can be one of the
worst, because there is no heavy guard
worn there, and it can happen purely
accidentally through the taker twisting
his body while the blow is on the way.
That is how Leto floored
Blatch at Sydney Stadium ;
Blatch, being unable to
continue, was given the
verdict. He would have
been counted out in
America, as happened to
Schmeling, it being held
by the ref., and agreed to
by expert witnesses of the
filmed scrap, that the kid-
ney punch was “fairly
delivered.”
The rush to support the
“fairness” of the blow has
been rather remarkable. It
has even been asserted—
prepost e rously—that
Schmeling did the back
damage himself in falling.
Not that Schmeling
otherwise appeared to have
any chance from the out-
set. At the bell Louis
moved in with a pounding
attack of heavy rights and lefts to head
and jaw, which alone dazed the Ger-
man. There was a clinch, Schmeling
landed a punch to the head and missed
with a swing, and Louis was on to him
again, driving him back to the ropes with
another battery of blows to head and
jaw. A right swing to the head twisted
Schmeling, and Louis drove in the decid-
ing right to the half-turned back. That,
by currently accepted rules, is fair; it was
none the less a blow on taboo territory.
No two accounts of the scrap agree.
In the A.B.C. direct rebroadcast from the
ringside Schmeling was first down for
four ; then down for eight, at which the
ref. stopped the count and indicated Louis
the winner. First cabled reports had
Schmeling down at least five times; later
cable made it four, and still later three,
Schmeling, by this last account, once ris-
ing at the count of one. The injury he
suffered was variously reported as (a)
torn side and back muscles ; ( b ) a broken
hip ; (c) the vertebrae damage. It was all
over inside two minutes, 84,000 paying
out a fabulous sum for the entertainment.
Overlin v. Sabatino
It must be a long time now since two
visiting boxers drew such a good house
as turned up to witness this pair of
doughty scrappers do battle at Sydney
Stadium. Both had been tested against
Fred Henneberry, the toughest fighter in
Australia, and had proved themselves so
well that many considered both had
beaten Fred. Present addict thought Fred
shaded both of them, Overlin by a bit
more than Sabatino. Still, it was only
by a shading; they were dandy fights ;
and so was this latest scrap. Ref. Joe
Wallis called it a draw ; with every re-
spect for that authority—a sterling ref.—
this scribe, looking up at it from the
press-seat angle, thought Sabatino won
nicely. They each won about the same
number of rounds, but the Puerto Rican
sculptor’s model won a couple of his
so much more conclusively than any
that went Overlin’s way.
A remarkable thing about the scrap
was the spate of fouls in it, yet none of
them deliberate, and the engagement, in
spite of them, fought in such good spirit
that it could, paradoxically, be held up
as an example of a fine sporting bout.
Most of the fouls were low punches, one
or two caused by the blow being diverted
down by the recipient’s defence, the
others misjudged swings at the body.
Sabatino took the worst of them —a fear-
ful upward swing from down about
Overlin’s knee which made him drop
his arms momentarily and stand in severe
pain, Overlin meanwhile standing aside
looking pretty well as pained himself.
Another variety of foul was a kidney
punch, also stopped by Sabatino. Over-
“Now when you get the ball put it up y'r coat and run like hell!”
lin’s chief form of attack is to leap at
his opponent with a heavy upward swing
directed at the body, and no chance,
of course, of staying it once it’s launched.
Sabatino’s body twisted while one of
these was on the way, with the result
that he stopped it pretty near the small
of his back. The other brand of foul
was the head variety, with Overlin the
victim. In this case they were fighting
close together, and it was more Overlin’s
bringing his head down while getting in
body-blows than Sabatino lifting his head
up which opened Overlin’s left eye.
As stated, there were no hard feelings
about any of these matters. Neither was
trying to beat the other that -way. Mostly,
it was stout, clean boxing, alternated with
solid fighting when Sabatino, keeping up
a dogged if somewhat heavy-footed pur-
suit, caught up with Overlin, or Overlin
leapt from his strategy of retreat into
hard-hitting attack. The early rounds
were mostly boxing, and Overlin —who’d
got his weight down to list. 6ilb. —won
the first four in a row. Sabatino (list,
ljlb.) took the fifth most conclusively,
landing a heavy right to the jaw and,
though Overlin fought furiously back,
following that steadier up with an on-
slaught of rights and lefts that had
Overlin all but out on his feet. He was
a very lucky Overlin in being able to
walk back to his corner. Sabatino took
the sixth against a weakened Overlin,
though the Puerto Rican didn’t profit by
his advantage as he should have done.
Overlin was all right in the seventh,
taking it by better boxing. Still, there
was not much in it —a dull round, as was
the eighth, which looked a shade Saba-
tino’s way. In the ninth Sabatino’s
ducking head took delivery of a left
swing that might have knocked a cannon
ball unconscious but seemed to freshen
him up. He won the round, and early
in the tenth again went within an ace
of knocking Overlin out. It was a beau-
tiful punch, the best of the whole fight—
a sweet left hook, short and sudden, flush
to the jaw.
Overlin, now visibly tiring, weathered
that torrid round, and in the next had
his eye damaged in the encounter of
heads. Unless the ref. scored that as a
foul against Sabatino, this was another
round to the Puerto Rican, who had a
bit the better of the last also, though
Overlin was there fighting furiously in
a great final rally when the bell went.
Ins and Outs
The Australians resumed batting
against Lancashire in typical Manchester
midsummer weather grey and murky,
with occasional showers of what looked
like ink falling from the heavens. Neither
Barnett nor Hassett looked like staying,
and the latter went without adding to
his Saturday score of 118. Waite 20,
White 12 n. 0.; all out, 303 ; Phillipson
5 for 93.
F.-Smith did not bowl —he was having
a tooth abscess attended to —and his ab-
sence weakened our attack, but the luck
held. Waite managed to dismiss Wash-
burn and Paynter for 7 and 9 respec-
tively ; then Iddon and Oldfield raised
the score to 126 before the latter was
caught by Badcock off McCormick for
69—a sterling innings. Iddon went soon
after, another Badcock-McCormick vic-
tim, for 44. A stand by Phillipson (52)
and Farrimond (49) bumped the score
from 189 to 240 ; at the end it was 289.
McCormick bowled patchily to take
4 for 84. Waite and Chipperfield each
bagged a couple. McCormick sent down
nine no-balls.
The Australians started their second
innings in better weather, and a good
stand by the openers saw 150 up before
Brown was bowled by Nutter for 70, the
pitch proving slow and easy. Bradman
came in and set to work briskly, and
when Fingleton departed for 96 the
skipper was showing his best form. With
a draw a certainty he took all sorts of
liberties, and closed the innings after he
had scored 101; 2 for 284.
It was then Lancashire’s turn for some
batting practice. Washburn and Paynter
had acquired 31 between them before
Chipperfield clean-bowled the pair. Waite
caught Iddon off White for a single, and
Oldfield and Hopwood played out time
with 30 and 17 respectively ; 3 for 80.
The match ended in a draw, slow bat-
ting and weather interruptions preventing
a decision in the three days. Attendances
were poor, a notable feature of recent
Australian games.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Not only are they asking
for five-day Tests in England (B.
22/6/’3B), but a strong party headed by
Hobbs is advocating playing out the big
games. To those complaining of the
interference with the county cricket pro-
gramme, Hobbs points out that Tests are
only played every four years in Eng-
land, and that the money they bring to
impoverished county clubs more than
makes up for the inconvenience caused.
But something will have to be done in
the case of counties which pay their
professionals so much a match plus a
small retaining fee for the season. These
men will not like missing a couple of
county matches during a Test week with
no pay but their retainer.
erf the 141 Test matches between Eng-
land and Australia only 16 have been
played at Lord’s. There it was that Aus-
tralians put up (he record Test score of
729 for six wickets, thanks to a stand
by Bradman and Ponsford. They seem
very unlikely to exceed that on the
present tour.
Though rain had been threatening,
Friday dawned fine and warm' and the
ground was filled to capacity early, the
gates having to be closed, although all
sorts of extra space for spectators had
been carved out. The pitch was a char-
acteristic “good” Lord’s one, with just
enough fire in it to raise the hopes of the
bowlers. The Somerset all-rounder Wel-
lard was played in place of Sinfield.
Hammond won the toss, and sent in
Barnett and Hutton. Bradman, who had
dropped Ward and Waite and included
Chipperfield, opened with McCormick.
The Victorian bowled with the famous
slope of the pitch across the wicket in
his favor, and sent Hutton, Edrich and
Barnett back for 15 runs.
A famous beginning ; but Hammond
and Paynter entered upon a partnership
which completely reversed the trend of
the game. Hammond, with much on his
shoulders, batted in his very finest form,
while Paynter, though scratching now
and then, was solid. O’Reilly was accu-
rate, but Fleetwood-Smith bowled in
ragged fashion, and Hammond in par-
ticular relished his stuff. McCabe and
Chipperfield were ineffectual,
and when the latter went off
with a split finger and Mc-
Cormick gave the usual evi-
dences of fading stamina the
outlook grew dark.
At last relief of a sort
came: Payn t e r played
O’Reilly with his pad and
paid the penalty. He needed
only a single for his century.
He and Hammond had raised
the figures from 3 for 31 to
4 for 253, a splendid feat.
O’Reilly trapped Compton as
he had snared Paynter; but
Ames came in to make a day
of it with his captain. Bat-
ting soundly, the stumper was
content to let Hammond
move along, and this the
skipper did to some pur-
pose. At the end of a perfect day
from the English point of view the score
was 409 for 5 wickets, with Hammond
210 n.o. and Ames 50 n.o. It was Ham-
mond’s ninth three-figure score in Tests,
and his stand with Paynter was a
new fourth-wicket partnership for Eng-
land.
O’Reilly took 2-76 and McCormick
3-76. No one else looked like a bowler’s
bootlace. The fielding improved on the
Old Trafford showing.
On Saturday conditions still favored
the batsmen. Hammond and Ames
began as if they were going to duplicate
Friday’s work, but when the captain
had reached 240 (in 370 minutes)
McCormick skittled his stumps. It Was
his highest score in a Test, and he had
given no real chance. He hit 32 fours.
Under captain’s orders, Ames and the
rest tried to flog the bowling. When
Ames was 83 Fl.-Smith sent him a curly
one which he flicked to McCormick at
slip. Smith and O’Reilly then rattled out
Verity, Wright and Wellard in short
order, and the innings ended with 494
on the board.
McCormick bore away the bowling
honors. Though Bradman did his best
to nurse him, the express had a full-time
job and came out of it with 4 for 101,
while he caught Ames and Wellard in the


SATISFIED!
We should say he was!
You will also be agreeably satisfied by the
smooth smoking and aromatic flavour these
Empire Tobaccos give. But more satisfying still
are the ridiculous prices at which we are able
to supply the public. These Empire-grown
tobaccos are manufactured at our own factory
and come direct to you —no middle profits.
A Briar or Cherry wood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch,
Cigarette Lighter or Holder is included with all
orders over £l. ALL LINES BOTH IN PIPE
AND CIGARETTE BLENDS.
First crop, mild . .
All British, mild
Riverhead Gold, medium
Old Peter, medium
Cavendish, strong
Beech Nut, medium
Africa, mellow and mild
Soldiers’ Own, mild
Normandie, medium
Winning Post, medium .
Three Bells, strong
Bird’s Eye, medium
Latakia, in pipe only .
White Lodge, medium .
White Lodge, light
Barlock Flake, light and
Cahills, medium
Union Leader, medium .
Tender Leaf, medium .
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only
Special Heavy Extra
dark
Per lb.
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/9
6/9
7/3
7/9
8/-
8/-
8/-
10/-
10/-
117-
8/6
10/9
11/-
11/-
8/-
6/-
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild
“Skipper,” medium
“Big Hit,” strong
“Three Sailors”
“Royal Navy Nuggets”
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks
“P.M.” Dark Plug
Zig Zags . . . . 5 for 1/-
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States,
7/6
7/6
7/6
7/6
7/6
7/6
6/6
6/6
COMBINED GROWERS
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd
COMMERCIAL ROAD, VALLEY, BRISBANE
i 8 to 10
goo
farm
horses
on
If hoY
fOBDSOH
m:
! = r
Wi
m
m
ys.'ywssys-wtyyyyys.'.
t I
5 '
I
/
■
v*??'
\ *S
m j
iwsii
V * *
I £ < > \-
( ,
, :;■ • •:
V '
,<*»
OM$, . 1
COME tractor users consider
cheap fuel the main factor in
operating costs. Fordson costs
far less to buy' than tractors
using low-grade fuels. This sav-
ing in purchase price alone will
pay for sufficient power Kero-
sene to enable your Fordson to
plough up to 6,000 acres of
wheat land. It will pay you to
test Fordson. Get in touch with
your local Fordson dealer and
arrange for a demonstration on
your own property. The Ford-
son finance plan provides excep-
tionally easy purchase terms.
PRICES FROM £242
Plus Delivery Charges
FORDSON FEATURES
HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION
“HOT-SPOT" FUEL VAPORISER
GOVERNOR CONTROL
OPTIONAL SPEEDS
OPTIONAL GEAR RATIOS
STATICALLY AND DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED CRANKSHAFT
EXHAUST VALVE INSERTS
BOSCH MAGNETO IMPULSE
STARTER
REAR END POWER TAKE-OFF
(optional at extra cost)
The English
TRACTOR
DISTRIBUTORS;
1-278 ?7T
foppmotor company of Australia pty. ltd, i incorpor ated in
VI C T OTMA)
slips. O’Reilly had the best figures, 4
for 93, but Fleetwood-Smith, 2-139, did
not look even second-rate for long
periods.
The Australian innings opened
brightly; 50 went up in 40 minutes.
Then Fingleton turned a ball from
Wright to Hammond at first slip and
walked home with a neatlymiade 31 to
his credit. Brown was seeing the ball
well, and when Bradman came along
Australia hoped for something dashing.
Dashing it was, but to Australian hopes
—Bradman went for 18, playing on a ball
from Verity; two for 101. McCabe
started to spank the bowling confidently.
His bright hit ended at 38, and when
Hassett, who had partnered Brown in
fine style, went to Wellard for 56 and
Badcock presented the same bowler with
his wicket without troubling to take a
run from him five had gone for 287.
Brown in the meantime had been trotting
steadily along, apparently indifferent to
every bowler, and was now past the
century. Barnett was next, and, watching
the ball so keenly that he could count
all the stitches on it, he played out time
with Brown: Barnett 6, Brown 140 ; 5
for 299. Too much praise cannot be
given to Brown for an innings played in
the teeth of adversity after a string of
failures earlier in the tour which might
have put a weaker spirit off his game.
He now becomes the third batsman to
score a century in two separate Tests at
Lord’s.
The English bowlers split the wickets
evenly, Wellard, a fastish right-hander,
taking 2-67, while Fames 1-99, Verity
1-59—but that one was Bradman’s—and
Wright 1-59 were the others.
Footbrawl
Carlton, Richmond, Melbourne and
Footscray are now in the first four V.F.L.
positions. On Saturday, Richmond had
all the best of it against Melbourne,
12-17 to 10-8, and the Footscray team
delighted all ’Scray by downing Essen-
don 17-9 to 14-16. Carlton, 16-13, had
little trouble with South Melbourne, 11-7.
Collingwood snatched a last-quarter win
from Geelong, 13-17 to 13-12. St. Kilda,
9-10, got home against Hawthorn, 8-12;
and Fitzroy moved up to fourth-from-
bottom by beating North Melbourne,
12-16 to 6-10.
In the Association competition, un-
beaten Brunswick had a close call against
Coburg, 13-10 to 12-13. Brighton, in
second place, beat Sandringham, and
Prahran stayed “in the four” by licking
Port Melbourne.
* % * %
“Fitzcray”: Since the Victorian F.A.
raided V.F.L. clubs for crack players
at the beginning of the season the League
has been professing indifference on the
ground that Association clubs are not
worth robbing. To which the V.F.A.
has replied that during the present
season attempts of League scouts to
nobble Association players have been
unprecedented. In the contest of “gates”
the League always beats the Association,
but sometimes the Association gets the
better of their wordy wars.
* * * '!"•
“Richmond”: R. T. Rush, chairman of
the Australian National Football Council,
has staggered the V.F.L. diehards by
declaring in favor of the Rugby two-
handed pass introduced by the V.F.A.
The matter will be discussed at the meet-
ing of the council in August. There is
sure to be opposition, in spite of the
fact that the new idea has worked well
in Association games. To the diehards
the rule smacks of the “foreign” Rugby
game, like that suggested one which em-
powers umpires to send toughs off the
field.
>k * -V *
Sydney’s Rugby Union continues to
present baffling changes. On Saturday
East whitewashed University, 15-m7,
St. George scored 16-8 against North,
and Parramatta downed Manly, 15-9.
Leading now are West and Randwick.
Down one point with only 10 minutes
to go, West galloped away from Drum-
moyne, 25-14. Randwick also came from
behind to head Gordon, 27-23.
“Cash Amateur”: Reported that the
N.S.W. Rugby Union, which has of late
been so solicitous about alleged infringe-
ments by Queensland of Union laws re-
lating to professionalism, has agreed to
select its team to meet the All-Blacks a
fortnight before the first match —to
allow coach Wallace to give his charges
a thorough drilling. Though not actu-
ally banning this assembling business, the
International Rugby Board has put it on
record that “it is contrary to the spirit of
amateur Rugby football that teams
should be assembled at a centre during
a period prior to a match for the pur-
pose of training.” And it was anxiety
on account of the 1.R.8.’s feelings that
led Ma to reprove the Queenslanders —
or so the old girl said.
if;
After scratching home by 21-11 from
a Toowoomba team, the M.L. Leaguers
again took the knock from Queensland
in Brisbane, this time by 21-12 —five
tries, three goals to two tries, three goals.
In reply to protests after the first game
with Queensland they were allowed to
play the scrum rules they are used to in
M.L., but the concession availed them
little.
* * * *
“Gate”: The heavy defeat of the
M.L. League footballers by Queensland
resulted in the refusal of their appli-
cation for a Test against Australia in
Sydney on July 2. Queensland, which
altered its inter-State programme to
oblige the visitors, blankly refused to
give up its two fixtures with N.S.W. in
Sydney on July 2 and 9.
Racquet and Bawl
At the week-end Miss Wynne was
going well at Wimbledon. She got through
the third round of the singles (all the
other Aussies had been beaten) by down-
ing the Austrian Fraulein Kraus in
straight sets, and was in the fourth
round of the mixed doubles (with
Boussus) and the fifth round of the
women’s doubles (with Miss Coyne).
There is some talk of the girls returning
to Australia via Yankeeland. They are
to play in Holland and Germany before
starting for home.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The annual report
of the A.L.T.A. gives interesting details
of the expenditure on the 1936-37 tour.
One outstanding item for 1937 is £1152
for “allowances.” Pretty juicy for
amateurs.
* * :Jc *
“Centre Court”: European wiseacres
are discussing Budge’s cross-over to pro-
fessionalism at the end of the 'season.
Those alleged to be in the know say
that if the American wins at Wimbledon
and thus takes all four major world’s
championships he will be given contracts
guaranteeing him £50,000. The cable is
rather vague as to the time Budge will
have to put in piling up the spondulix,
but probably it should be from a couple
to three years. Perry is said to have
pouched £20,000 in the first 12 months
of his professional career.
Miscellaneous
“K.M.”: Marshall, the young West-
ralian hairdresser, made amateur billiards
history at Melbourne by winning the
Empire championship for the second
time: Marshall 6639, Kennerley 4705.
So the Westralian will keep on his
mantelpiece the trophy he brought back
from Johannesburg two years ago.
* * * *
The N.S.W. countrywomen’s golf
championship was won by Miss Ebert,
who defeated Mrs. A. G. Byrnes, 11 and
10, in the final at The Lakes. Miss
Ebert, who hails from Griffith, has taken
the title twice before —in 1933 and 1935.


Plan Now
For
Comfort
in London.
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS
Cables: Bachflat, Lesquare, London.
100 bedrooms, with bathroom
and ’phone. Fully licensed
restaurant open till midnight.
Special rates for Overseas
visitors.
Details from
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart. Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORRES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grim wade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Test Pilot.”
Clark Gable, Myrna Loy, Spencer Tracy.
This M.-G.-M. offering at Sydney St.
James is a first-rate entertainer, taken
simply as a brisk action film, strong in
story, original and interesting in spectacle
—a film that hastens along, engaging all
the way.
That it also has the quality of truth
to the sort of life it depicts is strikingly
borne out by an article in “Scribner’s
Magazine” March issue dealing with the
same sort of life and written by one who
knows it at first hand. The article is
titled “Easy Money,” and its writer, Lee
Gehlbach, is blurbed as “the best-known
of the four living American test pilots
who specialise in test driving.” His “easy
money” is made at the extraordinarily
hazardous occupation depicted in the
film, which, in its details of the test
pilot’s job, could have actually been de-
rived from Gehlbach’s personal-experi-
ence account.
The film carries a foreword to the
effect that its makers hope their pic-
ture won’t put the breeze up timid folk
and so stop them travelling by air. A
complete justification could have been had
from Gehlbach’s article: “Knowing the
way it’s done,” he says, “I get indignant
over the layman’s lack of confidence in
’planes. These things are put to a test
far beyond anything expected of them
in their routine performance.”
He describes the high climb into the
skies —23,000 ft. up —to start the dive (the
picture makes it somewhat higher). His
dive started at 200 m.p.h. ; in the first
5000 ft. straight down it reached about
400 ; after that, the next mile was free
fall, hurtling towards the earth at up to
600 m.p.h. before the machine was
taken out of the drop. Gehlbach ex-
plains that at 600 m.p.h. you’re travelling
at 880 ft. per second —80ft. more per
second than the muzzle velocity of a
bullet leaving a .45 Colt automatic.
It calls for extraordinary physique, as
well as extraordinary psychological con-
trol and courage. When the test pilot
pulls out of such a dive he is shoved
down into his seat by a force of gravity
equal to seven and a half times his
weight. The wing surfaces, being much
broader than a man, present so much
more surface to the same force of gravity.
If all is braced right, the wings will be
there when the dive is completed; if
not, says Gehlbach, “the ship will look
sort of queer without them.”
In the dive he describes both wings
stripped off. There was a report that
“can only be described as the roar of a
cannon.” What was left of the ’plane
hurtled spinning down, with Gehlbach
knocked temporarily unconscious by part
of the cowling breaking away.
Even so, he got out of it, making a
parachute landing. The ’plane was
gathered up over a radius of a couple
of miles, the bits of it, with the notes
of instrument readings he took on his
knee while hurtling down, being of prime
interest to the experts, for whom the
test pilot’s job is just to find out whether
the wings of the machine they have de-
signed will strip off or the machine other-
wise go to bits under such extreme test.
This testing is featured in the film,
which makes the business visible almost
exactly as Gehlbach describes it. The
crashes are realistic enough for any taste.
If taken in conjunction with a reading
of Gehlbach’s article, the film should
tend to increase the average person’s
confidence in ’plane travel. Whether
the film alone will do that is more doubt-
ful, especially as its narrative turns on
the point of conflict between a test pilot
wedded to his work and the wife who
tries hard to be as carefree about it all
as he is, but can’t stand the strain, with
a land job for him as the final reward
for both of them.
Excellent directing and production,
plus some very good acting, make the
film an exciting entertainer. Gable as
the test pilot gives one of his very best
performances. The type he portrays is
completely convincing—a fatalistic irre-
sponsible, with a muddled sort of roman-
tic philosophy about his job, in which
the sky is personified as a light-loving
woman who sends her lovers crashing
when she gets tired of them. Thus she
becomes a personal rival in the eyes of
the girl who falls in love with him when
he makes a forced landing on her
people’s farm and who goes off and
marries him on the impulse of the
moment.
Myrna Loy has had parts she managed
easier. In the lighter aspects she is her
engaging self, but the part also calls for
considerable dramatic ability, and, very
fine artist as Miss Loy is, she is not a
Clark Gable (more or less aloft), Spencer Tracy and Myrna Loy in “Test Pilot,"
at Sydney St. James.
great tragic actress. She becomes some-
what intense and her top notes a bit
shrill. In all other respects she gets away
with it delightfully. She is certainly a
feasible excuse for Gable carting her off
in a hurry, and she makes it equally
feasible that the type of girl she is por-
traying would be ready to thus go off
with nothing but what she has on at
the time.
As Gable’s mechanic Tracy has a part
completely natural to him—a cross of the
sentimental and hard-bitten staunch mate.
One of the film’s few weaknesses is
that too much use is made of him, so
that, being always present making a trio
with the other pair, he tends to become
a clumsy sort of odd-man out. Lionel
Barrymore gives another of his neat bits
of character-acting as a paternal old
’plane constructor in the background.
A Czechoslovakian Film.
The fine bill at Sydney St. James has
most notably among its supports a very
beautiful filming of Czechoslovakia, with
James Fitzpatrick commentary. It’s in
color, and, as a good part of it is a
depiction of a national festive occasion
in Prague, the color is given the oppor-
tunity by the picturesque national cos-
tumes to be superb.
The film goes first over the lovely old
town’s graceful and quaint architecture,
depicts a remarkable old religious clock
and then follows the parades of young
people making pageant through cobbled
streets. There is one shot in particular,
of a girl in national costume, which is a
feast of colorful beauty.
Fitzpatrick’s voice, which present film-
taster thought lamentable the first few
times he heard it, is either improving or
grows more bearable with further
acquaintance. It is certainly clear, and
otherwise performs its descriptive job
admirably. It needs saying of this film
that it’s devoid of propaganda ; its appeal
is human and universal.
The bill also has an uproarious Robert
Benchley—this first-prize ass depicting in
his inimitable manner a man’s behavior
when his wife has gone out for the
evening and left him at home alone.
There’s also an “Our Gang” effort with
all hands well up to standard, especially
Alfalfa.
Capitol Showings.
Unhappily, the item Sydney Capitol is
giving most prominence in ads. for its
current bill —“Ring Memories”—wasn’t
on at the 5-to-8 showing present film-
viewer attended. However, he has it on
the best fistic authority that the “Ring
Memories” opus is a clinker for those
who like boxing. It even includes a film-
ing of a Les Darcy scrap, and comes
through from about that distant date to
the present time, showing briefly some
of the main fights of the period.
As for the rest of the bill, it’s some-
where about the average standard of the
offerings with which this film house
regales its patrons—a wild Western called
“Boots and Saddles,” wherein prads
gallop furiously through a rocky bit of
country which must lie somewhere ad-
jacent to Hollywood. Also, a sombrero-
lidded cowboy named Gene Autry yawps
the title song and others too moving to
mention, wins a hossrace against despe-
rate opposition and the girl against no
sort of opposition at all. Other main
item is a melodrama set inside one of
Uncle Sam’s gaols in floodtime, with an
ex-doctor stepping up from among the
prisoners to play the leading part.
Both these main pictures are Repub-
lics, and give some plausibility to the
yarn that it was his having seen them
that turned Hitler Fascist.
•
“Partners of the Plains,” seen at Syd-
ney Cameo and Civic, is the latest adven-
ture in the eventful life of Mr. Hopalong
Cassidy. He has forsaken beef and
rustlers to tame a haughty English
sassiety minx, who, of course, owns the
ranch of which he is foreman. Bad lot
and goil’s cast-off boy-friend plot murky
doings, which conspiracy Mr. Cassidy
and company settle effectively per medium
of hot lead. Good vigorous stuff slowed
up in places by stagy work from Nora
Lane.
“Women Are Like That ” supporting
“Joy of Living” at Sydney Regent, opens
brightly with bride Kay Francis eloping
with Pat O’Brien while ’groom waits at
altar. Thereafter the piece grows drearier
and drearier and drearier until it collapses
into the most prolonged and distressing
fadeout seen to date.
Flagstad’s Sydney Season.
No vocal pyrotechnics marked the
Norwegian soprano’s second recital.
Nevertheless, the songs she sang gave
ample scope for her rich interpretations,
expansive range and flawless tone. In
rare flashes came the unleashed power
of her magnificent voice, but for the
most part light headnotes, the half voice
and a resonant middle register were
employed.
The two Wagnerian arias, “Elsa’s
Dream” from “Lohengrin” and Sieg-
linde’s aria from “Die Walkiire” —in that
composer’s less tempestuous style—were
classic examples of effortless legato Sing-
ing. Her rendering of them made it no
wonder that New York’s Metropolitan is
booked out weeks before when she is
billed for the Wagnerian season.
Once again the soprano gave an ex-
position of how Grieg should be sung.
Certainly the group of songs by her com-
patriot deserve to be better known.
Later she added “A Dream,” a dainty
fragment by the same composer. Two
fine Beethoven songs, “Die Ehre Gottes”
and “Ich Liebe Dich,” were elegantly
given, and a group of colorless English
art songs got more justice than they de-
served. A captivating Strauss group
rounded off the programme.
But the charming show wasn’t all over
yet. One of the most delightful offerings
was Schubert’s “Impatience,” given as an
encore. This flood of melody was
gloriously rendered at breath-taking pace
with the ease of a lyric soprano.
So eager was the audience at the third
concert to salute the Flagstad banner
that, not content with roaring at the end
of each number, it applauded twice be-
fore songs were finished. Without any
Tibbett showmanship, she marched
pleasantly unperturbed through those
disasters, and smiled away another when
accompanist McArthur transposed a
phrase at the beginning of the “Liebes-
tod.” McArthur had a shot at getting
back, gave it up, and they started all over
again.
The only revenge she took was at
the end, when she set the hall on fire
with Brunnhilde’s war-cry. Earlier,
Brahms and Strauss lieder and a Nor-
wegian group showed the breadth of her
art, and the “Liebestod,” too icily formal
in certain passages, showed its depth.
McArthur accompanied with a nice sense
of drama, and won handclaps for his
solos.
Dunsany’s “Lord Adrian.”
A. A. Milne’s “The Truth About
Blayds” was followed at the King’s, Mel-
bourne, by Lord Dunsany’s “fantastic”
play “Lord Adrian.” Sincere stage work by
the key characters keeps it a fantasy until
the end ; it could easily degenerate into
something weak and uneasy.
The first act drags a bit. Dunsany has
to prepare the old duke —and the audi-
ence —for a monkey-gland infusion. In-
tention is to separate a disobedient
grandson from the family inheritance ;
method is the procuring of another heir
by the old duke, plus glands and minus
a few of his years. The woman pawn
selected by the duke is the girl his grand-
son jilts. But the resulting son, Adrian,
develops ideas and instincts quite at vari-
ance with those of his human fox-
hunting ancestors, and from there the
story moves quickly on.
Producer Gregan McMahon handles the
part of the rejuvenated duke in his very
best form. But his good work would
be wasted if the queer Adrian didn’t
manage to create a queer stage atmo-
sphere by manner as well as in the lines
supplied by Dunsany ; here Gilbert Price,
without a trace of artificiality, makes the
show. It only needs John O’Connell’s
splendid character picture of the solid


FOR A MODERN WORKSHOP!
Lathes of all sizes—a small model-maker’s lathe costing £2/10/- up to heavy industrial
lathes —are displayed in our showrooms. Come and inspect them.
An ideal lathe for the model engineer or home workshop.
4in. x 2ft. 10in. BENCH LATHE.
Specification:
Swing over bed Sin. Length of bed ..< 34in.
Swing in gap 12in. Admit between centres 18in.
Hole through spindle ain. Hiam. of faceplate 7in.
Cone Pulleys 21, 3§, Sin. diain. x lin. face.
Lead Screw, 8 threads per inch, acme thread, fitted with double clamp nut.
A reasonable price makes this lathe a splendid investment for your workshop.
If you are interested in tools and machinery, you need a copy of our No. 37
catalogue—at the same time, send for our 64-page “Home Workshop Guide.”
Both books sent free and post-free if you mention this advertisement.
Send for them now!
€
Proprietary Limited
51 Bathurst Street,
Sydney.
546 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
And at
Adelaide, Perth,
\
A
I—
SYDNEY TO PERTH
IN 3£ DAYS
ACCELERATED TRE-WEEKLY TRAIN SERVICE.
LEAVING SYDNEY
8 p.m. and 8.50 p.m.
Tuesday
Thursday
Saturday
ARRIVING PERTH
9.45 a.m.
Saturday
Monday
Wednesday
FARES FROM SYDNEY
(and intermediate N.S.W. stations )
TO PERTH
SINGLE.
Children
Four and
Under 14.
£ll/16/6
£6/12/9
Adults.
Ist Class £lB/18/6
2nd Class £ll/9/3
RETURN.
Children
Four and
Under 14.
£2l/9/-
£ll/16/3
Adults.
£33/9/-
£2O
Including reserved seats, sleeping berths (where provided) for
the through journey (Sydney-Perth), and meals on the Trans-
continental and West Australian Railways.
Seats and sleeping berths may be
booked four weeks in advance.
Apply to the Chief Traffic Manager, Sydney Station, for any
further information, or call at the Railway Inquiry Office,
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
W. H. Newman,
Secretary for Railways, N.S.W. (76)
V.
■!
0
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE CHANGING OUTLOOK FOR INVESTORS
AMERICAN PUMP-PRIMING
* SURVEY OF COMMODITY AND METAL MARKETS
SHARES WORTH CONSIDERATION
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS
July Issue on Sale Next Saturday.
PRICE 21 - PER COPY, OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspapei Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
gamekeeper to maintain the standard of
the production until the final curtain.
Patricia Trace is the puzzled Bessie
tricked into heir-production by the duke,
and she plays the small part well. David
Reid, W. H. Chandler, J. Clifford Dodd,
John Law, Gwen Izzard, Hattie Knight,
John Holly, Albert Stevens, Frederick
Vine, Norman Tucker and John Mc-
Farlane complete the cast with satisfac-
tory work.
Too Much Eucalyptus!
“Fedup” ringbarks an acre or two:
There are about 3000 pictorial artists
in the public eye in Australia, according
to a computation made by the eminent
statistical authority Prof. Krasy, includ-
ing newspaper cartoonists, commercial
artists, etchers, pen-and-pencil sketch-
ists, landscapists, portraitists, still-lifists
and exponents of free styles (whose sub-
jects are sometimes in doubt).
The proportion of these persons ac-
tively engaged in the portrayal of the
eucalyptus-tree, either as a principal
figure of landscape or an accessory to
other subjects, is conservatively set down
by the same authority as 94.7 p.c., and
he finds it probable that in the last 50
years no fewer than 5,682,000 represen-
tations of this noble plant have been pro-
duced.
The foliage, which is everlasting, has
been depicted as white, lemon-yellow,
lavender, turquoise-blue, ochre, orange,
scarlet, maroon, purple, indigo, all shades
of brown, black and (occasionally) green.
The bark has permitted the use of 7847
combinations and permutations of color
and form. If the gum-trees which have
served as models to Australian painters
and pencillers and etchers could be cut
down, made into a bridge and extended
into space the problem of a bridge to
Mars, would be solved for all time.
In the present condition of Australian
Art the first thing that strikes the eye on
visiting any art show in which the works
of more than two or three artists are
gathered together is a vast forest of gum-
trees. On leaving, and coming into con-
tact with the great outdoors, one is in-
variably struck with the fact that art is
stranger than nature.
It has struck many profound thinkers,
present commentator included, that the
Australian artist might, after a few days
of freedom, be conscious of a great feel-
ing of relief if he could be assured that
it is by no means compulsory for him to
draw 1093 gum-trees every year.
It is, of course, very difficult to over-
come racial or even tribal obsessions, but
by prayer and fasting it may be accom-
plished. Let every Australian artist say
to himself every morning “Every day
and in every way I feel less compelled to
paint a gum-tree” and in time the euca-
lypt will give other subjects a chance
and cease to dominate the botanical out-
look of the Australian artist.
Verse-play for Amateurs.
Maxwell Anderson’s The Masque of
Kings, recently published by the Bodley
Head, is a play worth the attention of
amateur theatrical groups, particularly
those that have a fancy for verse-plays.
So many contemporary verse-plays are
concerned with metaphysical matters un-
suited to the ordinary audience, or with
political statements that are better made
in prose, that to pick up one devoted to
entertainment based on ordinary human
values is more than a mild shock. Max-
well Anderson makes by implication a
few references to present-day politics,
but his real concern is simply to portray
the drama of the life of Rudolph of
Habsburg, heir of Francis Joseph of
Austria, who committed suicide in his
hunting-lodge.
Rudolph, says Maxwell, had completed
a plot to seize Vienna from his father
when he found that the “woman he
loved” had once been paid to spy on him
by the emperor. Rudolph abandons his
revolution, the woman commits suicide,
and Rudolph, following suit, declares:
To the young men
of Europe I leave the eternal sweet delight
of heaping up their bones in these same piles
over which their rulers grin. To the old and
dying
I leave their dying kingdoms to be ploughed
by the new sowers of death —fools like myself
who rush themselves to power to set men free
and hold themselves in power by killing men,
as time was, as time will be, time out of mind.
The author’s clear contemporary effect
is heightened by the loose, colloquial
blank verse he employs. The verse could
be spoken naturally on the stage, and,
suitably cut, the play could be staged by
any amateur dramatic society and under-
stood and enjoyed by the average audi-
ence. Rudolph is only Hamlet-and-
water, and despite the touches of con-
temporaneity the piece has a Ruritanian
remoteness, but it would be more worth
playing than most of what’s put on.
McKie Farewells.
The farewell concerts provided free in
Melbourne by departing organist William
McKie culminated in two recitals, one
of which attracted a full evening house
to the Town Hall.
Programmes were of the high order
which has always distinguished McKie
recitals. Handel, Mozart, Bach, Franck,
Beethoven and Purcell figured conspicu-
ously. A lovely item was the andante
cqntabile from the fourth symphony of
Widor, the little-known composer who
was born when Wagner was still a young
man and died last year at 92.
The final recital attracted a record
lunchtime multitude, and McKie got a
send-off resembling Tibbett’s.
Ruritania in Adelaide.
Adelaide Repertory must have had a
struggle to collect the enormous cast,
almost entirely male, of “Judgment
Day,” by Elmer Rice, the American.
It is all one long court trial in some
Balkan State, with the two local auto-
crats striving to dominate the five
Judges—one fiercely on their side, one
sternly opposed, and three uncertain.
Two pistol-shots and (apparently) revo-
lution on the door-step end the long
struggle, in which the best scene is where
the Judges discuss their verdict (im-
probably) in the empty court.
Cyril Riley produced, and a multitude
of clever bits were given by, among
others, Leibner and Robertson (Judges),
Irving Johnston (irrepressible prisoner),
Clark and Frank Part (dictators). Some
much-needed comic relief was supplied
by McCarron and Florence Brown as
chatty witnesses.
J. Salvana’s Paintings.
One of the soundest of Australian
landscape painters is J. Salvana. He has
devoted a good deal of study to the
qualities of Australian sunlight, and
there are certain atmospheric effects that
he portrays with singular fidelity.
A show of his latest works at Rubery
Bennett’s galleries, Sydney, is composed
of oils and water-colors in about equal
proportions. Among the oils “Golden
Afternoon,” “Sunrise, Naomi Country,”
and “Naomi River, Boggabfi,” are in the
artist’s most genial vein. Mr. Salvana’s
water-color technique is as complete as is
his method with oils, and the sketches in
this medium, which include some effec-
tive scenes with sheep, are very pleasing.
Pictures from Maoriland.
Peter Bousfield’s show of water-colors
of Maoriland scenes at the new Castle-
reagh Galleries, Sydney, contains many
ambitious efforts. The best of the pic-
tures are all in low keys—“ Cloud on Mt.
Ruapehu,” “Winter Evening, Canter-
bury,” and “Mt. Egmont from the
Hostel.”
Wolfgang Wolf’s Sketches.
Wolfgang Wolf’s artistic hunting-
ground is Tahiti. He’s not the most
graceful draughtsman in the world by
any means, but the collection of his
sketches at the Industrial Arts Society’s
rooms, Sydney, has point and pith, and
tells a great deal more about Tahiti than
ever gets into encyclopaedias.
Wolf has been dubbed a disciple of
Gauguin, but that’s nonsense. The
comic papers of Germany were full of
drawings in the Wolf vein long before
the French decadents commenced to mix
absinthe with their paints. There is
robust, salty humor in most of these
Tahitian sketches —the sort that Hogarth
practised—and style and subject are hap-
pily wedded with a neat sense of color
and design.
Melbourne’s Group Twelve.
This art group—M. Barrett, C. E.
Bell, George Bell, Moya Dyring, Roger
James, Ina Morris, Marjorie North,
Robert Pulleine, Arnold Shore, Clive
Stephen, Louise Thomas and Chrisma
Wahlers—has a show at the Athenaeum.
George Bell has an excellent half-nude,
and a couple of Arnold Shore’s barbaric
still-lifes and a bush glimpse, along with
Clive Stephen’s water-colors “Malla-
coota” and “Bush Clearing,” compensate
for a fairly heavy representation of more
experimental efforts.
A look round the Athenaeum’s walls
will convince anyone of the hardihood
of younger artists. Some of their
daubs would sober a drunk and others
put his wits astray again. The range of
nudes offers startling evidence about
human anatomy.
Louise Thomas’s “Convalescent,” Mar-
jorie North’s “Bargain Hunters,” Chrisma
Wahlers’s “Back Doors” and Madge Free-
man’s “Smith Street, Collingwood,” are
better than most. Quite a few of the
members of Group Twelve can draw.


FLUSH OUT
15 MILES OF
KIDNEY TUBES
Win Back Pep . . . Vigor . . . Vim
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 MILES of tiny tubes or filters
which help to purify the blood and keep you
healthy.
If you have trouble with too frequent blad-
der passages with scanty amount causing
burning and discomfort, the 15 MILES of
kidney tubes need flushing out. This danger
signal may be the beginning of nagging back-
aches, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, get-
ting up nights, lumbago, swollen feet and
ankles, puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic
pains and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait. Ask
your chemist for DOAN'S BACKACHE KID-
NEY PILLS . . . used successfully the world
over by millions of people. They give quick
relief and will help to flush out .the 15 MILES
of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There were crowds in town for the
Sheep Show, and the opening of Parlia-
ment drew a great audience. “Might as
well watch the Polwarths being mus-
tered,” grinned one wide-shouldered
man from the West. Well, it was the
usual display, bright with uniform, brisk
with movement, breezy to leg for the
gentlemen whose duties compel them
to don knee-breeches. Winter sunshine
caressed Macquarie-street with wan
fingers as the guns boomed out and the
Governor’s car, embellished with out-
riders and motor-cycle police, dashed up
to Parliament House portals. The
white plume of Lord Wakehurst’s cocked
hat, and his decorations, caught the light
as he walked along the line of the crisp
guard of honor.
There was a poinsettia-like burst of
carpet. There was President of the Legis-
lative Council John Peden hiding his
ears beneath a wig ; there was the Usher
of the Black Rod revealing his legs be-
neath knee-breeches. Lady Wakehurst
was admired in her mink coat and smart
toque. Premier Stevens’s wife wore a
suit of deep blue. A smart pair of
visitors were Mrs. Colin Sinclair and
Mrs. H. N. Giblin —particularly noted
the latter’s fur cravat. Persian-lamb
collared Mrs. R. W. D. Weaver’s black
coat. Browns and yellows were com-
bined effectively in the Hon. Henrietta
Loder’s outfit. Mrs. Graham Pratten
looked at the world through one of those
close-to-the-face mesh veils. Sydney’s
Archbishop Mowll and Mrs. Mowll were
among the listeners to the speeches.
Knight John Peden and daughter Mrs.
Ranald Peden spread the usual morning-
tea party.
Everyone who could claim a bale of
wool in hjs family crest went out to the
Sheep Show. It’s quite the nobby June
mannequin parade of the pastures. Lots
of people who can only claim a few balls
of wool in the coats on their arms also
went out to nod to the merinos and the
Corriedales. This Letter was one of
them, and was struck anew by the
extreme distaste with which sheep regard
the human race. Pausing in a stroll
along an avenue of pens bedight here
and there with championship ribbons, she
found an agate eye turned on her with
a basilisk stare. The owner of the eye
seemed to be computing how many
chops, cutlets, legs and shoulders of mut-
ton had gone to her make-up, and looked
as though he were bitterly resenting his
disjointed relations. It was one of those
sheep with horns, so a wary retreat
seemed tactful.
President Body introduced Lord
Wakehurst in a speech that had an old
Cavalier ring of “God Save the King”
in it. One girl said it made her feel as
thrilled as though two bands were play-
ing the National Anthem at the same time.
The opening was done in the big merino
pavilion, and some of the sheep began
to look quite haughty before the Gover-
nor had finished saying how important
they were to Australia. Premier Stevens
was a pointed-out of the afternoon. Lady
Wakehurst brought her quick smile and
smart black-and-white check tailorings.
The Hon. Henrietta Loder was in bluey-
grey tweeds. Both she and Lady Wake-
hurst did the rounds of the pavilions, and
peered into the unplumbed depths of prize
fleeces.
Mrs. E. I. Body, of Trangie, wife of the
president, looked smart in brown tweeds ;
her hat of brown felt had a tiny brim.
Daughter Margot was among the day’s
keenly-interested. Mrs. Tony Hordern
came befurred and check-tweeded. Mrs.
H. C. Mclntyre was a good-looker in a
navy suit. Mayor Nock was listed
among pen friends. Mrs. H. James, of
Wagga, showed partiality for the Rye-
lands. Mrs. Harold Prell, Noreen
Dangar, the McMasters and the Otway
Falkiners were to be seen daily. Joan
Harrison and Doone Rousch were bright
young shepherdesses. Glen . Devon
(champion Dorset) smiled complacently
at admirers of his giant-size curled
horns. Of such must have been the
combined music instruments and booze-
holders of the ancient sons of Britain.
Last week Lady Wakehurst unveiled
the bronze plaque of Nellie Stewart
which is placed in the rose garden to her
memory in the Botanic Gardens. Before
the unveiling there was a lunch at the
Carlton. This was given by the Nellie
Stewart Memorial Club, and the Gov-
ernor’s wife was the guest of honor. To
commemorate Nellie’s great characterisa-
tion of Sweet Nell of Old Drury an
orange marked the place of each luncher.
Nellie’s daughter Nancye (Mrs. Mayne
Lynton) was a notable ; so were several
of the late actress’s friends. A loyal
admirer who had attended every Nellie
Stewart play in Sydney was at the
Gardens to pay her tribute. After the
unveiling she stepped up and placed a
knot of rosemary on the memorial.
President of the club Mrs. W. E. Ardill
had a happy and contented look.
This is Barbara Russell (Mrs. Horace
Keats), who sings very sweetly and with
true artistry the poems of Chris Brennan
which her husband has set to music. Mr.
Keats, who is associated with the Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission, has
been given the right by the late poet’s
literary executors to compose the music
for any or all of Chris’s poems. So far
there are six lovely songs from his pen.
Photograph by M. Wilcken.
The piano at Rosemont, the Charlie
Lloyd Joneses’ house, had possibly never
responded to cleverer young fingers than
it did midway through last week when
Valda Aveling gave an afternoon recital.
Valda, the Alexander Gordon lady’s latest
protegee, is being put through prelimi-
nary paces before her big concert in the
Town Hall. The committee working for
this hopes to make sufficient money to
keep Valda abroad for two or three
years. As she is now just a teen-old, she
should be well on the road to success
when she slips into the twenties. She
made an attractive picture, her dark head
and serious face in harmony with her
sage-green ensemble. She has just com-
pleted an all-Australia tour with the
A.B.C.
The Jordan lady and Mrs. C. L. Jones
were the hostesses. Mrs. Jones’s long
apple-green velvet dress was on classic
lines and girdled in dull gold. The whole
was lit up with long diamond earrings,
as true as Flagstad’s. Black-and-white
was the color scheme of the Chief Jus-
tice’s wife. The entrance lounge was
bright with flowers and firelight, and here
music was served. Suchong and Darjeel-
ing were poured in the dining-room, and
here poinsettia and lilies were at their
midwinter loveliest. Enviable were Enid
Riddle’s terra-cotta angoras and the waist-
length seal cape worn by Mrs. Sep Levy
above her black frock. Two tall women
were Mrs. Bertie Kelly and Mrs, Mal-
colm Mackellar. The Philip Street,
Owen, Reading, Davidson and King
ladies were among the applauders. Mrs.
de Noskowski, Mrs. de Dardel and Mrs.
Host were among the Consular ladies.
Small sons of the house Charles and
David had great fun handing out pro-
grammes. There was nothing conven-
tional in their way of doing this. They
waited on the steps, and as the cars
stopped they sped forward with the blue
papers.
Last week Mrs. Pankhurst Walsh had
a birthday party. Members and friends
of the Guild of Empire rallied in great
numbers, many of them entering the
Queen’s Club portals (the neighboring
doorway) and asking the way to the cele-
brations. Once up the right stairway
waves of friendly chatter and the aroma
of good coffee thawed the arrivals,
almost frozen with the night’s Antarctic
blast. If you couldn’t get into the long
room where the speeches and the music
were decanted, good-looking Kathleen
Donovan and Carl Kaeppel ushered you,
with the rest of the overflow, into a small
room where Carl produced some ex-
quisite Ming drawings and French
posters.
. Acting Director for Education Hark-
ness and Bradley, K.C., released pleas-
ing speaking voices, and both praised the
work of Mrs. Walsh, the founder of the
Guild, which is now ten years old. The
evening’s heroine, her blue frock gleam-
ing under a black velvet coat, gave one
of her usual clear addresses. Daughters
Sylvia, Ursula and Christian smiled at the
applause that greeted their parent, and
Sylvia impulsively came forward with a
kiss for mother and a basket of flowers.
There was an enormous roll-up. New
president Mrs. Dewez gave her testimony
in favor of Mrs. Walsh. Mrs. Horace
Keats sang one of Chris Brennan’s poems
to the flowing and rich music composed
by her husband. The largest chocolate
eclairs this Letter has ever eaten were
the star piece of the supper.
Mary Whidborne was responsible for
an afternoon of music set in the Aus-
tralian Art Society’s exhibition. Because
the A.A.S. is a young group, Mary chose
all young musicians—“artists of to-
morrow,” she called them. The Educa-
tion Gallery was arranged with rows of
chairs, and one by one from among their
friends the performers stepped on to the
small stage. Priscilla Kennedy, a niece
of the principal of Frensham, was the
violinist. Her tone and phrasing were
both good. Isabel Huntley, very fair in
a soft blue dress, raised her high, sweet
soprano in operatic numbers and old
English lyrics, and schoolboy David
Maddison played the piano like a young
Paderewski. Proud teacher Miss Shad-
forth Hooper and mother listened criti-
cally. Isabel Huntley’s parents, too,
turned an eager ear. Dr. Grace Boelke
was there ; so were Ruby Adams, with
sister Ann, and Mrs. Cornwell. There
were posies for all the artists.
This is clever pianist Valda Aveling,
whose farewell recital next month is ex-
pected to crowd out the Town Hall.
Valda was the star attraction at two big
receptions last week. The second was a
Friday-afternoon affair at the home of
the Robert Dixsons at Castle Hill. Lup-
ton photograph.
Kirsten Flagstad goes in for the
statuesque in frocking. At her second
concert she gave the women in the
packed audience something to think
about in the color and style of her rai-
ment. Of flowing red-bronze satin, it
sported unusual shoulder scarves. These
were pleated, and fell to the hem of her
dress. They suggested sculptured wings.
Both Lady Huntingfield and Lady Wake-
hurst came to the concert. Lady Wake-
hurst was fur-coated and blue-satin-
frocked. Lady Huntingfield’s blue
ostrich-feather cape was waist-length;
her frock was black-and-silver. A cherry
sash bound the Hon. Henrietta Loder’s
mist-blue sheers. John McKelvey’s lady
was notable with her sweeping black
velvet coat, lush with silver fox and
sprayed with lily-of-the-valley. Mrs.
Florence Taylor and sister Annis Parsons
were together, their coats like a mink-
trapper’s dream. Germany’s Consul-
General squired Mrs. Asmis. Mrs.
Byron Wrigley was with father E. J.
Tait. In the interval Mrs. Harold Bott
and Hilda Mulligan talked over the
Arthur Benjamin opera now being re-
hearsed at the Conservatorium.
Posies such as might be offered by a
Dresden china shepherd to his brittle,
coy shepherdess were used to decorate the
reception-rooms of Mrs. Walter Swin-
son’s Turramurra home last Saturday.
Having worked hard on the committee
which now sees a symphony orchestra
established, Mrs. Swinson is turning her
attention to making music in the home
a popular form of entertainment. Last
Saturday, with ’cellist Athos Martelli,
Mrs. Swinson, who is a brilliant pianist,
gave a programme of seventeenth-century
music. Among the listeners in the
pleasant fire-lit room were Mrs. Mown,
Mrs. Robert Dixson, Ailsa Cullen, Mrs.
S. Jamieson, Mrs. J. B. Stevenson, Proi.
Charteris and General A. T. Anderson.
The hostess wore a sweeping frock ot
black chiffon sprinkled wkh white
flowers.
Jessica Chard’s spreading and befi filed
white tulle suggested romance last Sun-
day night. With Joan Sterling Levis, very
striking in her flame-colored Directoire
dress, Joyce Beazley, in a lace frock
draped majestically over a bustle, and
a procession of other pretty youngsters,
she illustrated “A Page from Yesterday.
This was a show arranged for the
benefit of T.B. children by Mrs. Sterling
Levis and Marie Bremner. Tableaux
representing well-known pieces of Dres-
den china, jade and old friend Willow
Pattern were arranged by Mrs. Levis with
her unfailing success. Lynne Golding
danced brilliantly, and June Chamberlain
as the Lenci Madonna was a joy to the
eye. Clem Williams, Enid Conly, Ernest
Llewellyn and Evelyn Grieg (at the
celeste) were also givers of their talents.
An enterprising and clever girl is
Muriel Howlett. She has been appointed
by the 8.8. C. to fly to Australia as
commentator in the first Empire flying-
boat to come to these shores. Muriel
is newsroom secretary at Broadcasting
House, and it was Sir John Reith, who
leaves off being boss of the 8.8. C. to
become boss of Imperial Airways, who
decided the Australian girl was to have
the job. Born at Gunnedah, she spent
some of her childhood in Temora before
coming on to Sydney to finish her edu-
cation. She sings well and swims well.
Her sweet contralto was often,' before
she went to London, heard in Australian
broadcasts. She has achieved the bronze
medallion of the Royal Life Saving
Society. Muriel went to Europe in 1935,
and, in addition to giving much of that
continent the once-over, has toured the
South of England and most of Scotland
by bicycle.
Redfern is richer by the new day nur-
sery in that suburb’s Pitt-street. This is
a model of its kind, and was given by
the J. P. Johnson couple. The front is
a terrace house which will accommodate
the staff, and the nursery is built at the
back. The bright rooms are all cream
and green; there is a sun roof, and two
old houses gave way for the large play-
ground. There were nearly 150 visitors,
including the Premier and Minister for
Health FitzSimons, at the opening. Small
children presented posies to former
president, the Mungo MacCailum lady,
to present president Mrs. W. P. McElhone,
and to singer Kirsten Flagstad, who had
gone to the little function with Mrs.
Harald Bowden. Nor did Premier
Stevens go home empty-handed; Cecil
Johnson, a son of the J. P. Johnsons,
handed him a silver salver, it was re-
vealed that at least two Premiers have
come from Redfern —the late James
McGowen and Mr. Stevens,
Colonel Donald Cameron, chieftain of
the Cameron clan in Australia, on Fri-
day night spoke by radio with Colonel
Sir Donald Walter Cameron, Lochiel,
chief of the Cameron clan, at Achnacarry
in Scotland. He also spoke to Sir Don-
ald’s lady, who is daughter of the Duke
of Montrose, and to Donald Cameron,
the younger Lochiel. Lochiel said he
was very touched by the message given
him and that he was sending a message
from the clan to the King in which he
would include the Camerons in Australia.
Lochiel also sent greetings to the
Cameron clan in Australia. The first
branch of the Cameron clan in Aust.
was formed in Vic. N. S. Wales and
Q. have started branches, and Tas., S.A.
and W.A. are about to join in. There
are branches in Canada, the U.S.A.,
South America and South Africa.
The Freddie Shipmans went back to
America in the Mariposa last Friday.
Entertainers who came under Freddie’s
direction to Sydney—the Milhollands
(she is pianist Eva Garcia) and violinist
Leona Flood —are travelling to the
U.S.A. in the same ship. Dorothy and
Lauri Kennedy, having finished their
A.B.C. tour, went off also.


I
MR
u
m
mmWMB
ZZZSBSX SCSSKS?-"
m I;:»
>l4s;/,
in
I «
Mn
klli, 3
:
t®®
, «H|
m
mm§
m
■
io
■
.
pil
IZuJ
ygp§ :; i
§l&«3spBE£Bs
SAW ; '
nil
MH
HBM
■ -
-
BH
■M
H
ME
■fl
NATIONAL
ENCYCIOPEPIA
muuie f 12120 vdut
■ —H
TEN LARGE VOLUMES
This is an absolutely modern up-to-the-minute encyclopedia which will be of inestimable value at
home, in the schoolroom and in the office. The set comprises ten large volumes, beautifully printed,
handsomely bound and profusely illustrated with full-page colored plates and maps, illustrations from
photographs and line drawings.
By special arrangement with the publishers in America we are able to offer a limited number of these
fine sets at approximately one-third of the regular price.
KEEP ABREAST OF TO-DAY
The National Encyclopedia is not a hastily compiled work of doubtful authority. It was compiled
by 1062 eminent scholars in America under the editorship of Henry Suzzallo, Ph.D., Sc.D., LL.D.
In the list of contributors given at the beginning of each volume will be seen the names of professors
with world-wide reputations as authorities on the subject of their articles.
The result is a magnificent work presenting all knowledge through modern eyes.
CASH OR TERMS
An order form is attached below to enable you to conveniently place
an early order and thus be assured of securing one of the limited
number of sets available. The cash price is 84/-; if desired a set may
be secured by sending a deposit of 1 2/6 with order and eight further
monthly payments of 10/- (total terms price £4/12/6).
When the present supply is exhausted no more sets will be available
at this low figure.
fd
THE MASTERPIECE
LIBRARIES
MASTERPIECES OF ADVENTURE.
Strange happenings in strange places—tales of con-
flict and daring by the greatest authors of all time
—O. Henry, Thomas Hardy, W. H. Hudson, Bret
Harte, Charles Dickens, R. L. Stevenson, Jack
London, Donn Byrne and many others. De Luxe
edition. Twenty-eight stories in four attractively
bound volumes in a box. Size Bin. x Four
volumes, 15/- (post 1/2).
MASTERPIECES OF MYSTERY.
Stories of criminals and the guardians of the law.
Ghost stories. Blood-curdling tales tinged with
mysticism. Stories mixing mirth with murder. All
from the pens of such master writers as Conan Doyle, Edgar Allan Poe, Wilkie
Collins, Mark Twain and many others. Thirty-seven stories in four volumes,
attractively bound and boxed. Size Bin. x Four volumes, 15/- (post 1/6).
THESE TWO SETS ARE WONDERFUL VALUE!
FEATURES
1. 10 Large Quarto Volumes.
2. 6000 Pages.
3. 6,000,000 Words.
4. 74 Distinguished Depart-
mental Editors.
5. 1062 Famous Contributors.
6. All Principal Articles Signed
by Famous Contributors.
7. 33,000 Article Headings
Alphabetically Arranged.
8. 15,000 Cross-References.
9. 3000 Half-tone Illustrations.
10. 3500 Line-cut Illustrations.
11. 51 Full-page Plates in Color.
12. 102 Full-page and Double-
page Maps in Color.
13. 2000 Charts, Diagrams, Line
Maps.
14. Large, Beautiful Modern
Type.
15. Genuine Gold Stamping on
Covers of Volumes.
16. Popular Edition in Handsome
Maroon Cloth with Morocco
Grain.
17. Beautiful Opaque Specially
Made Heavy Paper.
18. Size of Volume 7® x 10j| x
21 inches.
19. Specially Bound to Enable
Volume to Open Flat.
SEND_ FOR_YOU R
Angus & Robertson, Ltd., AIII\FD FAflll
s 9 YDNEY. reasrh street ' UKUtK rUKIYI
Please send me the set(s) marked X below. Indicate A or B terms when ordering the
National Encyclopedia.
(a) The National Encyclopedia (10 vols.) 84/- (cash within 30 days).
(b) The National Encyclopedia (10 vols.) (12/6 with order and 10/- monthly,
total £4/12/6).
Masterpieces of Mystery (4 vols.) 15/- (post 1/2 extra).
Masterpieces of Adventure (4 vols.) 15/- (post 1/6 extra).
NAME
ADDRESS
Freight on the National Encyclopedia is extra, hut in no instance will it exceed 7/6.


xN \
-<
When
a MAN
tells you:
that he is thankful
to Calvert’s Tooth
Powder for a life-
time free from
dental trouble and
for white teeth in
his old age—
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth!
*aAR/t
a
Personal and Missing Friends.
MAX VICTOR FOY. ALLAN FOY and
MARCIA JILL FOY (last known address
Balmain, N.S.W.), or anyone knowing their
whereabouts, kindly communicate with
MURPHY & MOLONEY, Solicitors, 79 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.
HENRY, CREBBIN, late of Melbourne, Vic-
toria. Anyone knowing his present where-
abouts is requested to communicate with THE
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY, LIMITED, 401-403 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 682 of 1938.
BETWEEN ESMAY EILEEN WILSON
petitioner
And JOHN ALBERT WILSON
Respondent.
TO JOHN ALBERT WILSON formerly of
Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ESMAY
EILEEN WILSON has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the First day of September
next and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition tiled
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Twentieth day of June, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eignt.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A- ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD.
Solicitors, for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Sydney Agents, N.
CHERRY WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors,
Assembly Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Two non-bridge players, Mrs. Eric
Harrison and Mrs. Ted Dyson, organised
a bridge party at George’s last week for
the Queen Victoria Hospital. Neither
is on the auxiliary of the hospital, but
both have a soft spot for it, and fell in
with the plan of Dr. Deborah Buller
Murphy, who represents the Queen Vic.,
one of the batch of charities which will
benefit from the forthcoming production
of “Crescent Moon.” Dr. Deborah
wasn’t at the party. Round about the
time the players were choosing tables
and getting their calls under way she was
somewhere up above the clouds bound
lor the centre of Australia and what’s
happening inside her goldmines. Mrs.
Harrison and Mrs. Dyson, both blondes,
often taken for sisters, but no relation,
were both maidless at the: time of the
bridge do, so round about 5.30 they
wrapped their silver foxes closer and
went off to cook family dinners while
the bridge people kept on bidding until
a few minutes before the store closed.
Raffles and sales of chocolates, nuts
and cigarettes were attended to by Greta
Harrison, Betty Henry, Peg Tronson,
Helen Krcrouse and Pat Henry, who
balanced their budgets and brought the
profits of the party into the region of
£35. Anything left over in the way of
paper baskets for the sweet or savory
nibbles was dropped in passing at Mrs.
Norman Brookes’s home, to be made use
of at the Queen Vic. bridge party next
Monday at No. 9 Darling-street.
Retiring Vice-Chancellor of the Uni-
versity Dr. R. E. Priestley said good-bye
to a large number, of his students last
week at a dance which followed a dinner
in his honor held in the Union House
dining-room and arranged by the Union
board of management. There were sev-
eral speeches at the dinner, but it was
good fun nevertheless. The only cere-
monial of the informal dance was the
presentation by Helen Balfour on behalf
of the S.R.C. of an etching by Victor
Cobb. The subject is the new Union
House, so that the eminent doctor will
take abroad with him a reminder of old
associations and at least one dream come
true. He has been very popular with the
students, and will be greatly missed for
his personality and his genuine enthusi-
asm by them and the staff. Mrs. Priest-
ley sailed for England earlier, but daugh-
ter Jocelyn will be among those who
wave farewell next week. She likes Mel-
bourne, and is so interested in her course
in the art section of Melbourne Technical
Coll, that she’s going to remain here
for the present.
Received with appreciation and close
attention, Lord Dunsany’s fantastic “Lord
Adrian” provided entertainment to the
usual Gregan McMahon full-house first
night at the King’s. The rain obligingly
held off till everybody was inside the
theatre, and it was fine again when the
curtain went down after nine scenes at
the early hour of 10.35 p.m. —which was
all to the good for velvet coats that spot
easily in verandahless streets but are
otherwise useful in our wintry weather.
Sitting together in the audience were the
David Elders, with Mrs. Elder’s parents,
Dr. and Mrs. T. A. Wilson, and her
sister, Mrs. Jack Gourlay. Mrs. Hubert
Black was noticed in a sable cape, and
Jean Balfour in crimped Edwardian
fringe. The Eric Grimwades were with
the Frank Lonies and the Bob Lawrences,
both Mrs. Grimwade and Mrs. Lawrence
warmly wrapped up in fur coats. Mrs.
Clarence Weber carried her head high
above pink carnations and a cocoa
ermine cape. Mrs. Mortimer Rob-b had
her hair girt about with silver lame. Dick
Linton and Maura Kieran were under
the wing of Dick’s mother, Lady Linton,
who wore a white gown, diamonds and
a white butterfly aloft of her ear.
The old Lansell home Fortuna, in Ben-
digo, is not to be demolished yet awhile,
but remains as a landmark of the adven-
turous early gold booms. The new pur-
chaser is C. S. Nott, who believes that
Bendigo could cope with a little more
amusement and night life, with a ball-
room for private functions and other en-
tertainments and, perhaps, a cabaret. As
the old house is large and rambling, there
is talk of alterations to provide also for
a guest house and a group of flats.
The Edward Heffernans invited friends
to an informal sherry party at Riddell’s
Galleries on the late afternoon of the
opening day of Edward’s (otherwise
Pal's) exhibition of pictures. Wording on
the cards mentioned a celebration or
commiseration party, but the former won
easily, for there were ten seals upon the
frames. Part and parcel of the festivity
was Mrs. Pat Heffernan (whose photo-
graph is by Broothorn). Before her mar-
riage she was Diane Fahkry, who did nice
work throwing clay upon a potter’s
wheel. Her decorations for the sherry
in the gallery were low, flat bowls of
violets and camellias and miniature hurri-
cane lanterns swinging in the dark of the
open windows. Mrs. Heffernan was the
subject of one of her husband’s exhibited
portraits, and a second model, Margaret
Horsfall, was also present, wearing a tall
and giddy hat and, to match her. venture-
some mood, an anklet under her sheer-
silk stocking.
Dr. and Mrs. E. B. Heffernan still
wonder how it was that their three chil-
dren slipped through parental fingers,
refusing all persuasion to study medicine.
Mrs. E. B. Heffernan is also Dr. Green-
shields, and is particularly well known at
the Queen Victoria Hospital, and Dr.'
Heffernan’s father was a medical man.
Of the three who turned down father’s
sets of bones, mother’s cases of instru-
ments and grandfather’s library, Edward
is in commerce as well as art; Bill is
studying agricultural science, is cham-
pion high jumper and a member of the
Empire Games team, and Hilda, not con-
tent with her arts Course, is now study-
ing for a Physical Education diploma
with Dr. Duras and making a trousseau
between times, for next year she is to be
married to Arthur Berry.
None of the modern (short-lived as
they are sketchy) musical plays has had
anything like the reception heaped upon
“Rose Marie,” whose rejuvenation
showed not one telltale wrinkle of dat-
ing. Originals of the Australian pro-
duction of 1927, who were both loudly
acclaimed, were producer George High-
land and Stephanie Deste, “in all her fore-
fathers’ feathers,” again playing Wanda.
There were people in the audience also
who remembered the season in England
a few years earlier and told stories of
how the Totem Dance caught on in Lon-
don. The Big Apple of to-day was no-
thing to the skip, skip and a kick of the
totem crocodile round the night club
floors.
The new Firm rose to the occasion
with new scenery and costumes and an
augmented co. Forty-eight girls danced
the Totem Tom-tom in an amazing effect
of symmetry and kaleidoscopic color, with
totem poles, a sunlight valley and snow-
capped mountain as romantic back-
ground. Lilac velvet, pastel yellow and
green organdie, white and sky-blue
chiffon, bonnets with jade-green feathers
picking up the gay color of the lining of
Edwardian trains were piecemealed out
to the chorus, who met and mingled with
ski-ing girls, Indian squaws, sergeants of
police and “he timber wolves” of the
Canadian Rockies. The show has bone
and muscle, pathos and comedy. One
spot of the latter, when Don Nicol and
Marjorie Gordon go fishing in dumb
show, even Ruth Draper would have
appreciated.
In the packed house were the Lloyd
Brinds, Mrs. Brind in ermine coat, gipsy
earrings and white gown patterned
diagonally in stripes of narrow propor-
tions but barbaric colorings. The Hubert
Jacobys were there; also Mrs. Keith
Mcßoberts, with diamond brooch and
green orchid as respective accessories
for white chiffon gown and fur cape.
Mrs. Arnold Wolf wore black encrusted
with steel beads. A trail of dark-red
roses lay upon Jule Kiddle’s black velvet
collar. Roberta Best, who came along
with her mother, was in black satin and
little white fur coat. Mrs. Alan Michaelis
and Barbara Smith were in the front row
of the stalls, for, like all people who have
had experience of the other side of the
footlights, they like to be as close as
possible to what’s doing. Mrs. Michaelis,
whose fair face was framed on this occa-
sion by softly moving white ospreys, was
Jean Duncan, and Barbara has recently
made a name for herself with the Gregan
McMahon Players.
Mrs. Alan Nathan (her portrait is by
Athol Shmith), who is working for the
American Ball next Friday night, is a
cousin of two other bright committee
people, Mary Saenger and Mrs. Mark
Graham, and is known to her friends by
a name that had its birth among the
cotton and the watermelons, “Mary
Lou.” Incidentals of the dance will be
the drawing of tickets for the trip to
Honolulu, and fishing in the lucky-dip
will be as much of a thrill for some folks
as finding a pound-note among the chew-
ing-gum wrappers in the gutter. Among
the thousand pieces of buried treasure,
every article guaranteed v/orth more than
Is., are 50 bottles of whisky and 24 pahs
of silk stockings. Mothers of broods of
children might be pleased at unearthing
a few of the 62 tubes of toothpaste that
will also be in hiding among the sawdust.
Group Twelve’s exhibition at the
Athenaeum is different from predecessors,
so much so that spectators leave the show
without more than perhaps one jigsaw
puzzle to solve. Among those who wan-
dered in and out on the opening after-
noon were Cara Barrett, interested par-
ticularly in the pictures shown by the
indefatigable little woman who is her
mother. Mr. and Mrs. H. L. James were
there. Son Roger, who has recently re-
turned from abroad, exhibited a single
scene of green woodland. Mrs. A. Den-
nistoun Wood was present; also Dr.
Mary Bell, Margaret Pestell, Yvonne
Atkinson and Moira Madden, Yvonne
wearing a grey jersey suit and Moira in
navy-blue with a green slouch hat upon
her sleek dark head. A pair down for
the day from Bendigo were Margaret
Long and Madge Freeman, Margaret
wearing a navy-blue suit and an up-
brimmed sailor hat. Miss Freeman, who
is exhibiting as an invitee, found a red
seal on one of her two pictures.
The Toorak auxiliary of the Royal
Melbourne Hospital held its annual meet-
ing at Mrs. Fred Kitchen’s, where mem-
bers reallv do feel at home, foL the most
faithful of them have gathered there
every month for the last two years To
these meetings some members always
bring portable sewing-machines, which
fact accounts in part for the 920 articles,
everything from shirts to pneumonia
belts, made for and delivered to the hos-
pital’during the last year. This Toorak
auxiliary is strong in the number ol
nursing trainees on its membership list.
Among them are Mrs. Kitchen, who is
the president, two of the vice-presidents
(Mrs Roy Chambers, who trained in
Perth, and Mrs. H. Hamer, who trained
at the Royal Melbourne, but who also
works for the Queen Victoria), Miss
Grace Douglas (of the Returned Army
Nurses’ Assoc.), Miss Bell, who used to
be matron of the Royal Melbourne, and
Mrs. Harold Walker, who did her train-
ing in Queensland, all active members
of the auxiliary.
Very seldom do Australian audiences
have the chance of seeing foreign films.
“We Are Coming,” an interesting sound
film from Poland, was shown for the
first time in Australia at a preview at the
Imperial last week. The actors are Jew-
ish children from the Medem Sanatorium
in Poland. Though all captions are in
Polish or Hebrew, the film is <easy to
follow, and the natural players, who
haven’t a mannerism between them, are
excellent propagandists for the good
work done at this health institution. They
go through their routine of work and
play, good fellowship and a quarrel or
two, school concerts and a marionette
show. As a contrast, there are slum
scenes in Polish cities. The photography
is excellent.
The old home known as The Manor,
which stands in 100 acres of ground at
Werribee and was part of the estate of
the late Phil Lock,, was sold last week to
Cr. Galvin, of Werribee. Mr. Lock
owned the estate for about 15 years. He
bought it from Gerald Buckley, who five
years previously purchased it from Cap-
tain Percy Chirnside, the original owner,
who built the house about 1900. In
those days the property reached from
Laverton down to Geelong. The Manor
has some interesting associations. There
was a period when it was used as head-
quarters for a detachment of artillery
volunteers maintained by Captain Chirn-
side. Sidney Myer was arranging to
purchase The Manor just before his death
in 1934, his idea being the gift of a
training farm for boys to the Church of
England.
Two members of the women’s tennis
team now abroad received sad news in
cables from home. Nancye Wynne’s
mother died after a short illness (Nancye
is an only child), and last week Dot
Stevenson’s only brother Ernest died sud-
denly, leaving a young widow and small
daughter. Mrs. E. A. Stevenson and
elder daughter Gwen also went to Eng-
land for the tennis, but they are now
cutting their trip short and returning
almost immediately.


With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality an''
premature old age are due to deficient
gland, functioning. 821 GLAND TONI(
TABLETS contain genuine glandula
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwr.ys Available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., H.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY EOOKLET.)
FREE SAMPLE
SENT OF RE-NU LIQUID
NU-METAL. Just deposit
thru plug holes, reconditions
any engine while-U-drive. Saves
rebore, ends piston slap, oil,
petrol waste; restores compres-
sion, new power, top-speed zip,
etc. Guaranteed good for
10,000 miles. Harmles finest engine. TRIAL TUBE,
6/6; or we send C.O.D. Advice, Literature, free.
St
RE-NU LTD.,
Opp. Richmond Station, Melbourne.
Agents Required, 20 Other Lines.
FREE SAMPLES.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Salamaua
If all the names of eligible and in-
eligible places in New Guinea had been
dumped into a hat with a view to
choosing a capital, no worse choice
could have been made than Salamaua,
the Lyons Government’s choice.
Salamaua is on an open sea coast. A
tiny spit of land runs out into the ocean.
There are magnificent harbors at Rabaul,
Madang and Vitu, and good ones at
Kaevieng and elsewhere ; but Salamaua
hasn’t even as good a harbor as there
is at Redcliffe Beach in Queensland.
Behind Salamaua the hills pile up,
rugged and impassable except by ’planes
and foot-carriers. No wheeled traffic
can penetrate to the interior, and there
are no big rivers, as there are adjacent
to some other sites, which might form
highways. However, the Government is
to spend £150,000 on a goldfields road.
Salamaua came into existence and sur-
vives because it forms the nearest prac-
ticable landing point to the goldfields.
It is constricted in building area, and
even its aerodrome at Lae is miles away
across the Markham River.
And goldfields are chancy things. Ports
built on gold in North Queensland have
died.
There is not a single factor to recom-
mend Salamaua. As for defending it —
even Canberra should remember how tha
little Emden ranged up to the large city
of Madras, also situated on an open and
harborless coast, and pumped shells into it.
Queensland Cotton
Cotton is grown in Central Queens-
land as a sideline, not as a staple; and
average annual output is 13,000 bales.
Australia manufactures 30,000 bales, and
asks for more every year.
Governor Wilson, who has had wide
experience in India, told a meeting at
Rockhampton (C.Q.) the other day that
only lack of irrigation stood in the way
of meeting the Australian market with
an Australian product. He might have
gone further, since there seems no reason
why Australia should not own a good
deal of the Asian market, now that a
cotton-picking machine has been in-
vented.
It is idle to quote the experience of
other countries on labor-cost questions.
Where Australians have to tackle that
factor in agriculture they beat it.
When black labor was taken from the
canefields it was said that the sugar in-
dustry was doomed. But so much pro-
gress has been made in growing and
treatment methods that it is now bigger
than ever.
Twenty years ago the idea of Australia
growing rice in competition with the
immemorial East was considered a joke.
To-day the Australian rice industry sub-
sists on labor costs at least 400 p.c. over
Asiatic costs. It has evolved varieties
which give the highest yield in the world
and the world’s best grain.
The raw-cotton market is a big one.
Japan in normal years imports over
3,000,000 bales (400 pounds to the bale),
of which 1,250,000 bales come from
U.S.A., 1,700,000 from India and the rest
from China and Egypt.
“Tuart”: Is there anyone left who be-
lieves the old fiction that the race wilts in
our tropical parts? If so, how does he
account for the late Jack Hides, one of
the most intrepid and indefatigable ex-
plorers of his time; and born at Moresby?
Or for Xavier Herbert, assuredly the most
vigorous novelist that has shot up in Aus-
tralian letters this last decade? Herbert
was born at Port Hedland, North West-
ralia, and his home-town is Darwin.
“Kyanbra”: What a revolution air
travel is working in Northern Australia!
I crossed from Hergott Springs to Dar-
win in 1911 ; it took over 2j months, and
our party was moving, or trying to move,
all the time. Now, Adelaide firms on
certain days guarantee next-day delivery
of parcels in Darwin, and Guinea Air-
ways can do the job in hours. The
Dutch ’plane for the Java run did the Bris-
bane-Darwin trip in hours. North
Queensland air-traffic has grown so
much, at week-ends especially, that the
biggest Douglas in Australia has been
put on the Townsville service. Towns-
ville now sees its Brisbane newspaper
almost as soon as the Brisbane readers.
* * * *
“Gain”: A native named Sarai, from
Mailu has made history. Left outside
the Papuan Club at Moresby by his
master, he leant on the fence. It had
been raining, an electric line leaked and
Sarai became the first native Papuan to
be electrocuted.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: The latest attempt to find
the bones of Leichhardt is to be made by
a Sydney party which intends to drain
Lake Massacre in Central Australia. It
seems that somebody told the Inna-
mincka police that the bones of a white
“ I treat her the same as I treat the missus—just ignore her. They soon cool off.”
man and an old pistol were found there
80 years years ago—that is, before the
days of Burke and Wills. I was brought
up as a youngster on the Cooper. There
was then no tradition among the Cooper
blacks of any visit which might have
suggested the presence of Leichhardt,
and if he had arrived with his drays and
horses, complete novelties, the makers
of corroborees would not have forgotten
them. In the ’nineties they certainly had
not forgotten Burke and Wills. However,
there are other interesting things besides
bones of explorers to be found round
Lake Massacre. Not so long ago a knee-
cap off a dinosaurus was turned up there.
* * * *
“Susu”: That curious mass-hysteria
interestingly described in The Valaila
Madness, by F. E. Williams, Govern-
ment anthropologist of Papua, is reported
to be working up again. It began in 1919
over an area extending from Jokea to
the Fly River, and far into the back
country. A curious feature was intense
veneration of a certain white man, whom
thousands of natives regarded as the
collective reincarnation of the souls of
their ancestors. When he travelled, hun-
dreds assembled to clear a path for him
and to fulfil his every wish. Whole vil-
lages joined to sing hymns for weeks on
end, working themselves into wild
frenzies, rolling on the ground and de-
scribing visions in the skies. Before long
houses were being burned by their owners
in a spirit of sacrifice, agriculture
neglected and communal life seriously
disrupted over a wide area, to the serious
alarm of the Government. It died down
gradually, but minor manifestations have
occurred since.
* * * *
“Kalkadoon”: The Territory border
country has been proving that it can take
fiction seriously. When Marie Bjelke-
Petersen arrived at Mt. Isa, the locals
lined up in queues to talk to her about
her new novel. Pity the lady didn’t cross
the border for the Rankine races. Admit-
tedly Rankine isn’t what it was when it
consisted of a one-room store, the owner
of which had a note issue. Civilisation
has crept in, as witness the fact that a
traveller has been fined for trespass on
Brunette, the local farmlet of 5000-odd
square miles. At the same time, authors
visiting it at the end of June find all
the adventurous souls for 400 miles
around sitting on horses or barrels and
swapping yarns that need a lot of wash-
ing down. Since it is the dry season on
the Barkly, though, the visitor may be
showing sense in making for the coast,
where racing which must naturally
enter into any Wild-North story has
been picturesque since the drought broke.
At the Oakley Park meeting at Kooroo-
rinyah (N.Q.) the chief stipe of the N.Q.
Racing Association went about his duties
in bare feet.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: The mania of politicians
for talking produced its arch example
when W. M. Hughes visited the Ramu
River, New Guinea. The Ramu people
are intelligent enough to smell dinner,
Some of them have learned a little
English, and many of them speak
pidgin to an extent which allows them
to take orders, recount their needs and
illnesses and carry out other necessary
plantation conversation. When W.M.H.
turned up, the Administration solemnly
assembled 2000 Ramus, and Billy ad-
dressed them. I don’t know what he
said, and I’ll bet the Ramus don’t know
either, even if somebody tried to interpret
his periods, but Billy found them a
“pleasant, friendly people.” Obviously
they have not reached the stage of
civilisation of the slightly colored per-
son who rose at a Brisbane conscription
meeting and asked William (1) whether
he was a Welshman, and (2) if so, do
you consider it fair to be leading a
crusade against the Germans on behalf
of England, a foreign Power?”
* * * *
“Zedo”: In road improvement Queens-
land is being well served. Routes
such as Townsville-Ingham and Towns-
ville-Home Hill, which used to be
shut up every time the wide Burde-
kin rose, have been or are being
relieved of their old - time terrors.
Not long ago motor vehicles had to be
trucked between Cardwell and Ingham,
but now virtually the whole highway
from Cardwell to Innisfail is in order,
and the last section linking Cairns and
Innisfail is being constructed across the
Eubenangee swamp. Mossman and
Daintree until recently had no roads
leading southward further than their
outskirts. Now a road which runs
through some of the loveliest scenery
in Australia has been linked up with
Cairns. The Government intends to con-
tinue on the coastal highway till there
is a good motor road from Coolangatta
to Cooktown.
* * * *
“Bambino”: It is all guff about Italians
monopolising the work on Queensland’s
cane-farms. Here are official figures
for three centres: Goondi, 50 p.c. British ;
South Johnstone, British 276, Italians 35,
Yugoslavs 12, Maltese 42, Greeks 9;
Tully, British 420, Italians 42, Russians
18, Finns 16, Yugoslavs 12, Germans 4,
Greeks 2.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: A strange wild figure,
its only dress a loincloth, a bone spritsail-
yarded through its nose and pig tusks
hooked in its loop-lobed ears, protested
loudly from the Ingham (N.Q.) lockup
that he had been mistaken for a double
of dishonest habits. “More better you
catchum that feller,” he insisted. Man-
nasuru, otherwise Tommy Tinkle, once
of Mallicolo, has lived in the dense range
country between Ingham and Cardwell
for 33 years. When the Kanakas were
being rounded up for deportation in the
early Commonwealth days, Tommy
bolted from his job at Ripple Creek
sugarmill and went bush. He built a
rough hut in the very depth of the ranges,
and lived on what he could raise or
catch of yams, potatoes, bush fruits and
game. Spears, a stone-ground hoop-
iron knife and a tomahawk were his sole
tools and weapons. Only rarely was he
seen by white folk. When fettlers’ huts
were disturbed at Conn’s Creek the police
collected a protesting Tommy for the
Palm Island settlement,
* * * *
“G.A.L.”: The Post Office has ex-
pressed disappointment at the small in-
terest taken by stamp-collectors in the
Sydney-New Guinea airmail flight—offi-
c j a n y> the first. Next time it has a stunt
pending it should advertise. Overseas
suc h an event is circularised among
dealers, who get special covers and
cachets printed for the occasion and
advertise for weeks ahead.


■ K • i
I mm
iri
wwpj m,
r m
Bggppgigiiaj M
THE
“ASHBOX” MIDGET
Kit of Quality Parts,
£5/15/-
Including Cabinet,
or
Ready Built
£6/5/-
(Plus 11- A.R.T.S. Plate )
Call in and hear this set!
RECO RADIO
9 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY. ’PHONE MA7249.
"RADIO DIGEST”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of "RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but “RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most, important radio
publications.
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
from the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office. 252 George Street,
Sydney. s
EMPIRES MILLIONS
RADIO NEWS.
FIVE-METRE SUPER-GAINER RECEIVER.
One of the most important contributions to the development of efficient
receivers for use on the ultra-short-wave five-metre band is this small but
advanced superhet, described by Frank Jones in the May issue of “Radio,”
U.S.A. It uses the new 6JBG hexode converter valve in the mixer-oscillator,
regenerative second detector and combined 8.F.0., and includes an entirely
new application of the 6H6 twin diode as a noise silencer.
Line-stabilised and crystal-controlled
u.h.f. transmitters have made it possible
to use fairly selective superheterodyne
receivers with as much success as on the
lower frequencies. A good noise-limiter
system to suppress automobile-ignition
interference makes this type of receiver
considerably more desirable than a super-
regenerative type because of its better
selectivity. A superhet can easily be
made which is less subject to ignition in-
terference than is a good super-regener-
ative receiver. The main disadvantage
CIRCUIT OF THE
NEW JONES U.H.F.
SUPERHET .
Cx—3-30-ppfd. coupling
condenser
C2 — 8-ppfd. tuning con-
denser Revamped 15-
ppfd. midget
C3 —15-pixfd. midget tun-
ing
€4 —50-ppfd. osc tank
condenser
C3 —.0001 -iifd mica cou-
pling
Co, C7 —.005-nfd. mica by-
pass
Cs, Co—o.l-pfd. 400-volt
tubular
Clo—.ol-|ifd. mica by-pass
C 1 mica cou-
pling
C 12 —.01-pfd. 400-volt tu-
bular
C 13 —.002-nfd. 400-volt tu-
bular
Cj4—o.s-ufd. 400-volt tu-
bular
C 15 —,25-ixfd. 400-volt tu-
bular
Ri —50,000 ohms, Vi watt
R2 —300 ohms, Vi watt
Rs — 100,000 ohms, Vi watt
R4 —300 ohms', Vi watt
Rs —50,000-ohm rheostat
Re —100,000 ohms, Vi watt
Rt —1000-ohm rheostat
Rs—s megohms, Vi watt
Rg—soo,ooo ohms, Vi waft
Rio —50,000 ohms, Vi watt
Rn — 20,000 ohrgs, Vi watt
R 12 —50,000 ohms, Vi watt
R.l3 —25,000 ohms, Vi wott
Rn —50-ohm c.t. resistor
IFTi, 2— ■-Midget 1600-kc.
iron-core i.f- trans-
former
Lj L2 —See text
Ls —40 turns, Vi" dia., no-
-28 d.S.c. jumble wound
of the superhet has been the large number
of valves and the complicated circuits
required. The circuit given here has only
three valves in the receiver proper, and
an extra valve for noise-limiting or
-suppression.
The Circuit.
The new 6JBG hexode converter valve
is used, and is apparently far superior
to any previous valves or combination
of valves such as the 6AB or 6L7-6C5
detector-oscillator systems. Electron mix-
ing takes place through an extra grid
connected inside of the valve to the
oscillator triode section of the 6JBG.
This triode has a high transconductance
and oscillates vigorously even below five
metres in the circuit shown.
The oscillator circuit requires a tuning
condenser which is not grounded or by-
passed to ground for u.h.f. operation.
This is easily done by mounting the con-
denser on a small porcelain stand-off
insulator and connecting the rotor to the
dial and detector tuning condenser
through insulated shaft couplings. A
high-C oscillator circuit gives good fre-
quency stability and can be made to
track easily with the low-C detector cir-
cuit for single-dial tuning. Good oscil-
lator stability is especially needed for
C.W. reception of long-distance five-
metre signals. These signals occasionally
reach long distances when the ionised air
layers are such as to reflect these very
high frequencies back to earth.
Regeneration in the detector circuit
was tried by tapping the cathode lead to
a point near the grounded end of the
detector-tuned circuit. Variable screen
voltage was obtained through a poten-
tiometer, but little benefit seemed to re-
sult —possibly owing to the oscillator
circuit arrangement. The sensitivity was
so much greater than expected that addi-
tional regeneration was discarded. An
I.F. sensitivity control was needed owing
to overloading from any near-by five-
metre stations using telephony.
One stage of 1600 kc. I.F. was sufficient,
since a regenerative second detector adds
to the gain and selectivity in the inter-
mediate frequency amplifier. A 6A6 acts
as regenerative second detector and one
stage of audio amplification, as in the
Super-Gainer receivers illustrated in vari-
ous editions of the “Radio’' Handbook.
This method is employed in the Ideal
Amateur Superhet (described •B.
13/l/’37). The 6A6 has two triodes,
one of which acts as a grid-leak detec-
tor connected to the second 1600 kc. I.F.
transformer.
Regeneration, or oscillation, for C.W.
reception is controlled by a 1000-ohm
variable resistor connected across the
cathode R.F. coil. This coil consists of
40 turns of small-gauge wire such as
28 D.S.C. jumble-wound on a |in.-
diameter bakelite rod. It is not coupled
to the I.F. transformer, but is mounted
underneath the chassis near the 6A6
socket. The number of turns depends
on the type of I.F.T. and degree of
coupling. Loose coupling between the
coils of the second I.F.T. is best for
smooth control of regeneration by means
of the cathode circuit.
The second triode of the 6A6 is resis-
tance-coupled to the detector and the
headphones. The plate circuit of the
second detector has an R.C. filter, an
extra condenser and resistor, in order to
reduce hum and any possible “motor-
boating” trouble. A second audio stage,
consisting of a high-gain interstage audio
transformer and a pentode audio valve,
can be added for loudspeaker output.
Noise Limiting.
The new noise-limiting circuit is of
particular interest because it can be
added to any short-wave or u.h.f. re-
ceiver. It is very effective in levelling off
the terrific popping or crackling of car-
ignition noise. Weak ’phone signals can
be understood through very bad car-
ignition interference. This limiter has a
6H6 twin diode connected in push-pull
across the audio amplifier. The plate of
one diode connects to the ungrounded
end of the headphones and the cathode
of the other diode to this same point.
The remaining cathode and opposite plate
connect through bias delay batteries to
the grounded side of the headphones.
A negative bias of 14 volts is applied to
each diode plate to act as a
delay voltage in order not to
attenuate the desired ’phone or
C.W. signals. However, the
ignition-noise voltage may be as
high as 10 or 15 volts on peaks,
and the limiter levels these off.
It actually short-circuits the
output for the short duration
of the noise-voltage peak. These noise
peaks, in a receiver that is not actually
selective, have a very short period, and
the receiver output can be automatically
short-circuited for a l-1000th to l-100th
of a second without appreciably affect-
ing the audio quality on ’phone reception.
The delay voltage is provided by two
small 14-volt dry cells connected as
shown in the circuit diagram. In adapt-
ing this noise-limiter to any audio ampli-
fier it should never be connected across
a transformer, choke or pair of head-
phones having D.C. flowing through the
winding. The winding should be iso-
lated from D.C. as shown in the circuit.
There seems to be no present substi-
tute for the new 6JBG hexode mixer
valve, but a 6K7 can be used instead of
the 6D6 in the I.F. stage, and a 6N7 can
be used in place of the 6A6. The 6N7
usually has a little less hum than the
6A6 in the second detector-audio circuit,
because of better shielding.
Condensers and Coils.
The oscillator condenser has a maxi-
mum capacity of about 17mmfd., and
by choosing the proper coils and oscilla-
tor trimmer condenser the two circuits
can be made to track 1600 kc. apart. A
50mmfd. midget condenser, set at about
ihree-quarters of the full capacity, acts as
a fixed “tank” coffdenser across the oscil-
lator coil and provides a high-C oscilla-
tor circuit. The detector has no trimmei
condenser, as it should have as low a
C-to-L ratio as possible for maximum
signal sensitivity. The oscillator should
always be tuned to 1600 kc. higher in fre-
quency than the detector.
The coils are soldered to the tuning
condenser terminals. The oscillator coil
has four turns of No. 14 wire wound on
fin. diameter, the turns spaced enough
to make the coil about fin. long. This
coil is centre-tapped, and the resistor is
soldered directly to the coil with a lead
about fin. long, since this resistor must
also serve as an R.F. choke in the oscil-
lator circuit.
The trimmer condenser is soldered to
the tuning condenser with short heavy
leads. The detector coil is similar ex-
cept that it has eight turns. The aerial is
coupled to the detector through a mica
trimmer condenser having a range oi
3mmfd. to 30mmfd. It is set at a fairly
low capacity, with the plates well sepa-
rated.
Alignment.
An all-wave test oscillator is a great
aid in lining up even a simple superhet
receiver. The I.F. can be aligned to
1600 kc., and harmonics of the signal
generator can supply five-metre signals
to check for detector-oscillator tracking.
It is possible to line up the whole receiver
on stray noise or signals in the five-metre
band.
The I.F. at 1600 kc. provides about the
proper degree of selectivity for reception
of crystal-controlled or stabilised modu-
lated oscillator ’phone signals. Badly
over-modulated or frequency-modulated
signals are nearly unintelligible on this
receiver. If reception of that type of
signal is desired the single stage of
I6ookc. I.F. should be replaced with two
stages of 3mc. or smc. I.F. for less selec-
tivity. The oscillator tracking would
have to be changed to make the oscilla-
tor tune 3mc. or smc. higher in fre-
quency than the detector.
D.B.K.
Amateur Chatter.
Latest 56mc. news from W9FM shows
a considerable amount of activity in
U.S.A. with the arrival of summer DX
conditions. WBIPD is using a new trans-
mitter with a 6L6~ 40-metre crystal and
doubler stage, with an 807 quadruple! -
to five metres, followed by two 807’s
straight through in the final stage. Input
is 60 watts with 50 p.c efficiency, and
the whole transmitter is built on a chassis
measuring only 17in. by 7in., thus prov-
ing that crystal control at five metres calls
for no formidable layout. His new 56mc.
receiver is full of acorn valves in the
front end.
The Clearwater Radio Club in Florida,
with callsign W4EQK, now has a 200-
watt crystal-controlled transmitter in
action on telephony and C.W. telegraphy.
R.C.A. has given W9FM the design for
the 74-metre rhombic aerial used to re-
ceive the 42mc. and 45mc. transatlantic
television signals from London recently.
Height above ground is 45ft., length per
leg 400 ft., length of shorter diagonal
(width) 130 ft., surge impedance 700
ohms, surge impedance of transmission
line 460 ohms, general effective height
20 metres and wire size 14 B and S.
Provision is made to vary the length of
the diagonals. This array was designed
for signals arriving at the low angle of
74deg., the measured angle for the Eng-
lish television signals, and the aerial sys-
tem should prove very effective for 28mc.
and 56mc. Smaller dimensions would
probably be satisfactory on 56mc., though
a rhombic array for this frequency should
be arranged strictly for low-angle recep-
tion. For average work, ordinary half-
wave elements, whether horizontal or
vertical, stacked one above the other and
fed in phase, should produce satisfactory
gain without excessive directivity.
A five-metre relay network was re-
cently established on ambitious lines be-


WELDON
RADIO CLOCK
Manufactured by
BLOCH & GERBER.
Queensland Distributors:
Radio & Television Pty., Ltd.,
Perry Hou^p,
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
See Advertisement on Back Cover
of this Paper.
You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is the ONLY STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONLY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
•* * V I»\4 y-V ..
;• ' < ' <f art
< r^v’ ;
■ws
: *j??x i ; *V.
7>V.
. v - - '-' ■ • ■
v ■ -.. *<► ** : x :• 4 %•> ■■
V >' '•**. ’&•< $ v v
’;. ;.V.' :°< >
' v^%
*4 •<','' ' ;' 'V'
/^r>:f^ J> :p',m
*:#/ ••• ' '-I *,*♦ ', '
VM f \f V
cusrMMlßMiM®
m w :
7 J$T
, x->Xw:-?w*.^BBBßsx*x*:v
p*#* _ . , , ....
L ' " 1 ;. • /,{ *v# > •$» >t. $ y,\
' y<> .' < J ! t>- 4?' * .
.> 4 :. ; :*&*.?s ; - >
T; * .
t 4* -,V< ii ( />
¥h. H x •"' '
L & v * ff
Mi t%'4& *'&&&*s
>f "' ;• v/* 7 * /
'|r •
A &*ia
.;. -
: •. : .: g
WWi
mt
mb
tlvr *:J* * ■, h 4fe
"'let
v *ii/e c °p
i '< !' ! 1
RADIOTRONS
THE 'WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVES
tween U.S.A. and Canada. The net
extended from Toronto to Pittsburg, and
messages were relayed by a chain of
stations. Such a scheme is well suited
to countries with plenty of amateur
stations using the 56mc. band, but would
be quite out of the question for Aus-
tralia at the present stage.
The Scottish amateur GM6RG takes
his 56mc. DX work very seriously. Re-
cently he was copied solidly for 40
minutes in Eastern U.S.A. by W2JCY.
The transmitter uses between 500 and 1000
watts, crystal-controlled on 57,016 kc.,
and the aerials are a rhombic with
nine wave-lengths to each leg, and a ver-
tical array of four half-waves in phase
with four reflectors and 12 directors,
rotatable. Separate transmitters are used
for 7, 14, 28 and 56 me., remotely con-
trolled from the house about 300yds.
distant.
The remarkably good results being
obtained with long-distance television re-
ception in England by the use of tilted
aerials at the receiving end serve as a
reminder that not enough work with this
type of aerial is being done on 56mc. In
1933, VK2ZC of Newcastle, N.S.W.,
demonstrated the practicability of this
form of directive aerial in the hunt for a
hidden 56mc. transmitter during an ama-
teur field day at Wyong, N.S.W.' He
carried a half-wave element fitted to a
crossarm on a broomstick, and by taking
the minimum and maximum signal obser-
vation with the aerial held at approxi-
mately 50deg. he was able to walk
straight through dense bush up to the
transmitting position. Others with loop
aerials and other gadgets went mostly in
the opposite direction!
Current issue of “Television and Short-
wave World,” England, contains an
article by GSZJ on a double-doublet for
directional transmission and reception on
14mc. Two half-wave doublets fed with
twisted pair are placed end to end, and
feeders coupled to the transmitter either
in series or through separate links. By
mere reversal of one link the aerial sys-
tem becomes either two half-waves in
phase or one full wave out of phase,
giving a great advantage in being able to
change directivity materially at will. That
this aerial works well is evident by the
fact that, when GSZJ has been heard in
Sydney on 20-metre ’phone, his signal has
always been very strong.
The five-metre signal heard at VK2NO
during scheduled tests with WBANO did
not originate from Ohio. WBANO was
not on the air owing to a severe thun-
derstorm. Question now is, who and
what was that DX signal?
VK2NO.
The return to 2UE’s microphone of
“Jerry McGee,” assisted by Rus Garling,
the world’s first ventriloquist to become a
radio star, reminds that Australia has pro-
duced in Garling an entertainer who can
hold his own with America’s much-publi-
cised Edgar Bergen, the voice of Charlie
McCarthy. For ability to raise laughs
the palm goes to “Jerry McGee.” In the
matter of sartorial splendor “Jerry” and
“Charlie” divide honors.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
The Ideal Battery All-wave T.R.F.
Receiver is still being used at Miles,
Sth. Queensland, and a
move will shortly be made
to Thargomindah. Listening
sessions have recently been
few. CSW on 30.8 metres
is doing very well until after
8 a.m., but the best station
is GSB. After 8 a.m. the
25-metre band is now almost
dead. WIXAL closes with
good signal strength at 8.30
a.m.
At noon I have had RNE
Moscow at full speaker
strength on 25 metres. GSD
opens at 12.15 p.m., and is
fairly good. Other stations
at this time are TPA4,
TPA3, DJD and DJO.
GSD improves quickly. On
the 19-metre band the three German sta-
tions are very strong at noon, but GSI
is only fair on commencing at 12.15 p.m.
DJN is only fair at this time, but rapidly
improves, and DJE has been heard after
11 a.m.
K. B. G.
What's What in Radio.
»
Commencing on July 3 the Sunday
hours of short-wave station VLR will be
from 8 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. and 3 p.m. to
10.30 p.m. Eastern Australian time.
VLR operates on 31.34 metres (9.58mc.)
from Lyndhurst, near Melbourne.
* * .-s *
The history and technical development
of Empire broadcasting, the foundations
of which were laid in 1927 with the com-
mencement of the GSSW station at
Chelmsford Marconi Works, are re-
viewed in a new 8.8. C. publication, The
Empire Short-wave Station, Daventry.
Radio Comment.
“Gluny”: An inefficient earth is fat-
worse than no earth at all. An earth-
wire should be as thick as possible, and
no more than nine feet in length. A
soldered pin or lug should connect it to
the terminal post on the set to avoid
hard-to-locate crackle, and it should be
soldered, or bound by a screwed clip, to
its terminus underground. If led out
through a wall, insulated bushing is just
as necessary as in the case of an aerial
to prevent intermittent short-circuiting,
which gives a painful crackle in the set.
Staples fastening the wire at any point
should be insulated, as wet wood or
concrete contacts through the. staples also
cause irregular leakages and rattles, un-
less galvanised staples are driven tightly
home and do not rust. Covered multi-
strand wire avoids most of these diffi-
culties.
“Thermit” : At last
something may be done
about compulsory inclusion
of radio-inductive interfer-
ence suppression equipment
on many forms of electri-
cal apparatus. The Com-
monwealth Government is
to deal with the question
when broadcasting is re-
viewed shortly. Vacuum
cleaners, small motors, hair-
dressing equipment and
other appliances often kick
up a din in near-by radio
receivers. There is no tech-
nical reason why the manu-
facturers of electrical appa-
ratus cannot include noise-
suppression filters in their
design.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) The farm has a 22-volt Delco lighting
plant, and I wish to instal a loudspeaker for
“This is National Station Number One
signing off. Good-bye , everybody;
good-bye !”
calling the hands to meals. Can this be done
by using an ordinary loudspeaker and an ear-
phone as a microphone ? (2) Where can such
equipment be obtained? —686.
(1) An earphone is not very successful as
a microphone. It would be better to use a
high-gain carbon granule type such as used in
the modern telephone. A midget permagnetic
speaker could be used, with a large horn to
direct the sound as required. (2) Try Kingsley
Radio, 249 Spring-street, Melbourne, for
amplification equipment designed for 32-volt
application.
* * * *
(1) My three-valve Reinartz receiver has two
magnetic speakers, Philips and Attwater-Kent,
the first sounding high and tinny and the
other low and fuzzy. How can I raise the
tone of the Attwater-Kent speaker? (2) How
can volume be improved on the weaker
stations ? (3) Would a screen-grid detector
be cr, worth-while alteration ? (4) Could / add
a stage of R.F. without screening? (5) Would
a PM22A valve be better than the PM2A ?
(6) Can I improve the valve combination ?
684.
(1) Only by using resistance-capacity coupling
instead of a transformer to the output audio
stage with a .006mfd. mica condenser, but the
speaker with the predominant highs would
then be worse still. (2) By addition of a stage
of R.F. amplification. (3) Yes. (4) Only if
this is of the untuned type, but adequate
screening will be needed if tuned, which is the
better scheme. A separate R.F. unit could be
made up in a metal box and capacity-coupled
to the grid circuit of the detector in the usual
manner. (5) Yes. (6) Perhaps IC4 or KF3
R.F. stage, 15 SG detector, 30 first audio and
ID4 or KL4 power pentode.
(1) Any books that would give the beginner
a fundamental knowledge of wireless with con-
structional details? (2) Has Don B. Knock
written any books on the subject? (3) What
qualifications are necessary for a position as
ship’s radio operator? (4) Would it be pos-
sible for a beginner to qualify for such a posi-
tion by home study? —6Bs.
(1) Recommend the Book of Practical Radio,
by John Scott-Taggart, and such annuals as the
Radio Amateur’s Handbook, by the A.R.R.L.,
and the "Radio” Handbook, by Radio, Ltd., Los
Angeles, U.S.A. Any of these publications can
be had from Angus and Robertson. (2) Not
yet. (3) First- or second-class P.M.G. com-
mercial ticket. (4) To a large extent, but much
practical work is needed, and this is afforded
by radio schools.
* * * *
(1) Enclosed is the circuit of a short-wave re-
ceiver using 36 regenerative detector and 79 as
twin audio, with magnetic or dynamic speaker.
Could the 79 dual-audio amplifier be used with
a (tJI electron-coupled detector circuit, as
shown, or with any similar circuit using the
79 ? (2) Could the second audio stage be
transformer-coupled ? (3) Is the method of
’phone-jack connection for first audio stage
correct? (4) Any suggested circuit improve-
ments? (5) Best type of magnetic speaker to
use ? —683.
(1) Yes. (2) Not advisable with the 79 used
in this manner. Audio instability is likely to
be troublesome. (3) Yes. (4) If any audio
instability is experienced, the plate feed to the
6J7 through the high-impedance choke should
be decoupled by a 10,000-ohm resistor and a
lmfd. condenser. (5) Depends on types avail-
able, as magnetic speakers are not normally
manufactured these days.


1
mJ
|ps®SPSra IS3
fPi
1!
: .
: ?*
J
Jb i
v ...
a*
mm
»; '. V
1!
*
few;:;! .
«r; ■,- i||
i
.
1111 l
n
RSH
WRITE FOR
FREE
COOKERY ROOK
LEA & PERRINS, 96 White Street, Leichhardt, N.S.W
Name
Address . .
Bulletin 29/r,/'BB
*
f
df
SOMETHING THAT
MAKES B MEAL


HTS
LYS
&
proof.
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
m
m.
h fe V-
**s3am
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty.,Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Mitchell Grass on Elderslie.
“J.W.”: On Elderslie station near
Winton (C.Q.), C.S. and I.R. investigators
have been making a careful study of
the grass position. Elderslie contains
about 300,000 acres and Carries, about
43,000 sheep and a few working horses
and cattle. Rainfall has been recorded
for 50 years ; the lowest was under 3in.
in 1926 and the highest 25in.; it aver-
ages from lOin. to 16in.
The country consists of Mitchell grass
downs, channel and claypan country,
ironstone ridges and a little rough hill
country, largely covered with spinifex.
On some of the Mitchell area experi-
mental plots were laid out and stocked
for several months through summer and
autumn with one sheep to 4\ acres.
From April onwards the rate was im-
proved to one isheep to three acres.
Sections were harvested monthly (14 cuts
in all) and samples sent to the Waite
Institute (Adelaide) for examination. The
sampling area was changed with each
cut. The year’s rainfall was sin. at
least above the recent average.
The results showed remarkable com-
parisons. From October to February
monthly totals ranged down from I.4cwt.
for ungrazed and I.2cwt. for grazed land.
In February and March there was a
rapid increase in output. Mid-February
cut gave only 1.71 cwt.; three weeks later
a cut produced 10.99 cwt. By early April
another 17.88 cwt. had been accumulated
on ungrazed and 18.lcwt. dry on grazed
land—equal to one ton of hay. From
then onwards till September the output
never fell below 13.16 cwt. for ungrazed
and 12.88 cwt. for grazed land.
The bulk of the yield was of perennial
grasses, annuals representing 2.o6cwt. on
ungrazed land in a month when the total
yield was 13.16 cwt. There was about
4 p.c. of miscellaneous herbage at the
lowest point, rising to about 3cwt. in
March on ungrazed land.
Stocking was very light having regard
to summer growth—the Waite Institute
assumes that a sheep’s requirement is
about lOcwt. of dry matter a year—so
that it is scarcely possible to make any
deductions as to the actual effect of
stocking.
The most interesting study is the trend
of grass dominance. With the pasture
grown from winter rains and available
in early summer, Mitchell was sub-
ordinate to a mixture of other herbage.
Annuals showed little response to winter
rains. When a good summer rain—l2o
points—turned up in January, Mitchell
soon showed 92 p.c. of the whole pas-
ture, while the annuals made no move.
Miscellaneous grasses followed the
Mitchell, and by February represented
24 p.c. of growth. Mitchell then made
another move, and in June was 80 p.c.
of the total once more.
The general pasture showed peak pro-
tein yield in January and February ;
in other months it was not much more
than half the figures for those months
The nutritive ratio fluctuated from 1:7
in February to 1:9 in April and 1:33
in September.
Average nutritive value is low. Lime
was only about .35 p.c. against the
1.5 p.c. yield from the Waite Institute’s
Kybybolite (S.A.) pasture, and the high-
est protein—l 7 p.c.—was low for young
grass. At the same time, its value would
compare with that of ordinary meadow
hay, though phosphorus seems to show
a negative balance for several months.
The dearth of legumes is obviously a
serious drawback in this country. Ex-
periments might find one in North
Queensland —something of the Townsville
lucerne type—which would mend the
deficiency.
Sheep Show Points.
“Bungaree”: In past years there has
been dissatisfaction about “twelve
months’ growth” wool on show sheep,
and it has been made an excuse by
several studs for not sending sheep to
Sydney’s Show. Last year the R.A.S.
imposed shearing regulations, and every
sheep over a certain age shown this
year had to be certified as shorn on a
specified date, at which time its length
of wool did not exceed half an inch.
There have been complaints, too, from
buyers of rams at Show sales that
animals which carried a heavy fleece with
“Wish y' wouldn't cut such big posts, Ma; y'll be knockin' the 'orse up again."
6in. staple cut only half the weight with
a staple of about 4in. the following year.
However, many buyers failed to allow
for the difference between their own
pastures and climate and the conditions
under which the rams were bred. They
may have been shorn at a special stud
shearing and at sale time may have
carried 15 months’ wool, but they cer-
tainly would have been on good feed, so
it is only natural that they could not
make the same showing on natural
grasses, particularly if they had done a
fair amount of service in the flock.
Nevertheless, the shearing provision
might be extended to cover sale rams.
A few stud breeders certify their rams
as being straight from the paddocks.
Others mention the amount of extra
feeding they have given their sheep. But
there is no check on shearing.
The Move to Oberon.
“Sunny”: Oberon (N.S.W.) district
has been largely neglected. It is ideal
lamb-fattening country. There is no
drought. In winter there is a nip in the
air, but growth is rapid in the right
seasons. It is handy to metropolitan and
export markets, and its only disadvan-
tage is an oversupply of heavy timber.
There is no land in N. S. Wales which
responds better to topdressing or which
is more reliable in season and out of
season and freer from pest and disease.
The N.S.W. Agricultural Department
reported one case recently in which a prop-
erty at Oberon, topdressed with lcwt.
super, on natural pasture early in 1937,
carried 231 ewes on 32 acres for three
months.
Dealing with Impaction.
“Doitnow”: Impaction can be cured
if taken in time —also be prevented.
Sheep on dry feed, or hand-fed, especially
lambing ewes, are liable to become
affected. Any dopy-looking sheep should
be drenched at once with 4oz. Epsom
salts and loz. bicarbonate soda in 14 pints
warm water.
Keep this lick in the paddock: To two
bags of good-grade stock salt add 1001 b.
of sterilised bonemeal and 401 b. Epsom.
Mix well, add three pints of molasses in
four gallons hot water, and keep mixing
in until the whole is golden brown. Make
a hole in the centre when pouring on
the molasses so that it won’t run off the
dry material. The bonemeal helps to
strengthen weak sheep, supplies pasture
deficiencies and lime, and so ensures safe
drenching with carbon let It helps
lambing ewes to bring their lambs to safe
delivery without weakening themselves,
and keeps the digestion in order. Epsom
keeps the bowels open to prevent im-
paction. The molasses is sufficient to
attract the sheep, kill the Epsom’s bitter-
ness and yet not enough to cause salt-
poisoning
p T , , , , .. .
This year I have had splendid results
with this lick under trying conditions.
It is equally good foi cat e.
After a good green shoot appears, long
enough to be eaten, drop the Epsom ;
otherwise use the same mixture.
Wool Counts.
„
‘ C.V.S. : Though Kyamba (B.
1/6/ 38) is right as regards the technical
definition of counts, the numerical terms
are now mainly used to denote fibre
diameter only.
Actually, tensile strength, length, elas-
ticity, serrations, etc., all influence the
number of hanks that can be spun from
a pound of top. A doggy 60’s would not
spin as well as a stylish crimpy 60’s,
nor topmakers’ 60’s or short 60’s as
well as spinners’ 60’s. All these wools
are termed 60’s to indicate fibre diameter.
Counts for well-known types are as
follows: Merino sup. fine, 80’s up ; fine,
70’s-74’s ; medium, 64’s ; strong, 60’s-58’s ;
comeback, 58’s-60’s ; fine crossbred, 56’s-
58’s ; medium crossbred, 50’s-54’s ; cross-
bred, 44’s-46’s; coarse crossbred, 40's-
44’s ; Lincoln, 32’s-36’s.
Sheep Varieties.
“Ghanam”: S. Australian breeders
have just paid £2OOO for various English-
breed sheep from Maoriland, including
Romney Marshes, Southdowns, Border
Leicesters, English Leicesters and
Cheviots practically a new breed to
Australia. Why all this variety? The
urge to be “different” seems to be
stronger among Australian sheepmen
than the desire to produce a standard-
ised model export lamb. Anyway, as
was pointed out on the M.O.L. page
three years ago, the margin left for
Australia to take up in the British
trade is comparatively small. A lot of
districts which have gone into the lamb
business would do better by watching
the wool market and breeding with its
needs primarily in view.
Ragwort.
“Lennox”: In Gippsland (Vie.) rag-
wort is assuming a density and extent
that threaten to make its wiping out im-
possible.
The Government has been attacking it
with parties of young , men armed with
spray-pumps. They arrive on a prop-
erty when the plant is well in flower.
Some of the ragwort is sprayed with
weed-killer and some is just cut and left
to lie. The seed ripens and spreads with
the wind. There are thousands of plants
in the rosette stage left untouched. Many
of those are in full flower now.
Ragwort won’t be got rid of till the
landowner himself gives his attention to
the job of destruction during the flower-
ing stage.
An economical idea is to graze the
land with sheep. They will not let a
flower ripen but nip it off as soon as it
appears. Of course the toxic effect of
ragwort if animals get an excess of it
is .well known ; but if sheep are taken
(Continued on next' page.)


4
&
V,
XV
O
m
m
m
N
EW
TH
o>
Veedol Motor Oil has earned its world-wide reputation from years
of successful service in every corner of the globe. It has
placed at the command of motor users a permanent
lubrication ... an oil that cannot drain away
from the working parts of the engine
because it clings to the
surface.
\V
AND NOW COMES THE NEW EXTRA MILEAGE VEEDOL.
Whether yog ore hustling through a 1,000 mile trip or
stopping many times during the day . . , either below
freezing or over boiling point your engine stays 100%
lubricated with the New Extra Mileage Veedol Motor Oil
There's no carbon, gum or sludge formers in the New Extra
Mileage Veedol . . . after using it you will never let any
other oil go into the crankcase of your car. There is no
motor oil in the world today to compore with the New
Extra Mileage Veedol Motor Oil.
100% PURE PENNSYLVANIA AT ITS BEST.
Obtainable at all leading garages and at no greater cost
than any other oil.
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY
P T Y
LTD.
incorporated in N.S.W.
V. 38
7?ie'^'alleS/rt
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
off land that is heavily infested at inter-
vals they will suffer no injury.
Where there are only a few plants the
quickest way is to pull them out and
put salt or poison in the holes left by
the roots.. If the plant has taken posses-
sion of a large area then the spray-pump
with good weed-killer is the most econo-
mical and satisfactory method apart from
grazing with sheep. But it must be kept
going through the season.
Is Saffron Thistle Noxious?
“Lion": Saffron t. has been tentatively
placed on the N.S.W. list for inclusion in
the new Noxious Weeds Bill. If it is
declared many graziers and farmers may
as well walk off their properties.
It is one of the most valuable of
drought fodders. I have seen ewes keen
in good condition and rear a lamb on
s.t. seeds and “a sparse pick.” Wethers
have kept fat under the same conditions.
My healthiest and strongest ewes and
lambs are living under these conditions.
The ewes have more milk than those on
apparently better pastures, and the lambs
are certainly fatter.
Other points in s.t.’s favor are that
it prevents soil erosion. Many wind-
swept paddocks have been entirely re-
claimed by it. One paddock here (mid-
western N.S.W.) has scoured badly where
the s.t. is not growing; but where it
is the silt from the rest of the paddock
has been caught, spread out and further
erosion prevented.
The close growth provides shelter for
an early green shoot after the first good
rain, especially in a bad time.
For the last 16 years s.t. has been on
every property that I have been on. In
a paddock subject to erosion I would
replace it only with lucerne.
Swine Tuber, and Pasteurising.
“J.W.”: Danish and M-L. breeders are
finding that swine tuberculosis can be
wiped out. In Denmark it is easy be-
cause milk, not cream, is delivered at
dairy factories and it is not difficult to
impose compulsory cream pasteurisation.
Maoriland officials reckon the coun-
try’s loss from the disease at a minimum
of £60,000 a year, and tubercular car-
casses represent two-thirds of all those
condemned, while 12 p.c. of all pig heads
are discarded because of neck-gland in-
fection.
In Australia and Maoriland, where
cream is taken off the farm and skim kept
to be fed, the problem is not so easy, but
M.L. has evolved a farm steriliser and
pasteuriser cheap enough for the average
farmer to buy. It pasteurises skim and
provides sterilising steam and hot water
to deal with the milking plant.
Skinning Hints.
“Sandy”: Try this method of skinning
cows:
With the cow lying on her back, open
up the forelegs and down the throat,
round the jawbones. Skin back from
the horns 9in., leaving the ears on the
hide. Open along the belly to the tail
and free the hide a few inches on each
side. Open the back legs from under the
hocks to the tail.
Pull the hide from the legs and see
that no meat is on any part of it.
Put a chain round the horns and hitch
to a tree or bottom of a fencing-post.
Half-hitch another chain round the free
hide at the ears. Then get two steady
horses and pull slowly with the chain
along the cow’s backbone. Watch the
hide and be ready to use the knife if
necessary.
Calves can be done the same way, but
more care and less force are needed.
When killing for meat, naturally the
procedure is different, as the beast is
handled on the gallows.
Bless the Rotary Hoe.
“Wundi”: Many farmers have reason
to bless the rotary hoe and other high-
power machinery. In S. Gippsland (Vic.)
there were dozens of square miles of low
tea-tree scrub, accounted good for
nothing. Now heavy disk ploughs take
out tea-tree up to 12ft. high, and the rotary
deals with growth up to 6ft. and leaves
the land ready for seeding after one
more treatment. The hoe handles tlnee
to four acres a day. Cost runs up to
£2 10s. an acre where both heavy disk
and hoe have to be used, but land which
needs hoeing alone can be done at 355.
per acre, or sometimes considerably less.
One plot at Yarram sown down with
121 b. millet and 1001 b. super, early last
November carried 23 milking cows from
January 1, along with a few horses, and
500 sheep were kept on 23 acres of it
until early in March, when it was sown
with rape.
Outside Gippsland, Australia has tens
of thousands of acres of flats neglected
mainly because there is a sort of tradition
that tea-tree country is poor—it rarely is.
Erosion Prevention.
“Lion”: Much can be done to prevent
erosion by careful handling of the plough
and cultivators and sensible use of the
axe.
A hilly paddock, not contoured should
have all headland furrows filled in and
not be left with them running down the
hill. On unavoidable downhill headlands
plough a deep furrow across the top
of the headland, banking the soil uphill.
This gives two ways of diverting the
water —the furrow and the bank.
Sheep sometimes upset one’s calcula-
tions, but this should be watched for and
the trouble cured with a line of old
manure bags filled with soil. Bags placed
at intervals down shallow or even fairly
deep washes, with light branches between,
prevent serious damage and often silt up
completely.
Ringing trees in the path of water-
courses, on creek banks or near them,
or on very steep slopes is asking for
trouble.
Lucerne everywhere is about the best
means of saving an eroding paddock,
as the roots quickly get a deep hold.
Willows planted along creek banks hold
them together better than anything else.
Have found that young willow limbs
make a growth of 22ft. each way in
approximately 18 months. They are
easily planted. Cut a limb off a tree,
any thickness, any length, and put it in
a deep hole near the creek bank, on
plenty of moisture.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sandy”: A hoe-head or a cane-knife
is an excellent plough-scraper. The old
cane-knife is better for a disk plough, as
it can be used while ploughing. As it is
flexible it moulds to the shape of the
disk.
“Lam”: To creosote fencing-posts, fill
a couple of drums 2ft. deep with the
dressing. Stand the posts in the drums
for 24 hours or more. Then lay on
corrugated iron on a slight slant feeding
into a drum, and allow them to drain
for another day.
“Pani”: Try two tablespoonfuls of
treacle with lib. Epsom mixed as a
drench for hard quarters in dairy cattle.
“Colon”: When sharpening a skinning-
knife on a steel, put the finishing stroke
on the far side of the steel. This puts
the burr on the edge of the knife facing
the carcass and lessens the chance of
cutting the skin.
“X T.”: The rain has proved disastrous
in N.S.W. districts where sheep have been
weak and a cold snap has followed the
fall. Losses on some properties have run
as high as 60 p.c. in western N. S. Wales.
But where rain has not fallen there have
been bitterly cold winds and duststorms,
and lambing ewes have been inclined to
leave their drop to die. In other dis-
tricts June shearing will be a difficult
time, but on the whole conditions are
far better than they were and the losses
will be much less than had there been a
continuance of the drought.
“Pakeha”: There’s a move in Maori-
land to repopularise maize as a crop.
Maize is one of the most vicarious of
crops—it does well in Java, and it grows
on the edge of the U.S.A. blizzard coun-
try. Experiments with half a dozen
varieties at the Rukaura Training Col-
lege last year gave average yields of 56.9
bushels, Early Butler topping the returns
with 70.5 bushels. Excelsior, Hickory
King, Wellingrove were also tried, but
there has so far been no attempt with
Fitzroy or other Australian high-yielders,
though Yellow Dent is to be given a run
next year.
“Zedo”: There is room for the in-
ventor who can produce an ideal hay-
pressing machine for field use. A Maori-
land plant is worth looking at. It allows
material to be handled direct from the
sweep or it will travel along the swathe,
pressing as it goes. It needs three men
to work it, one on the sweep, one forker
and one on the wire, and it is economical
otherwise, running on a 2-h.p. engine.
During a week recently, using one gallon
petrol per 100 bales, it pressed 2255 bales
on a trial run.
“Bundalinga”: In the opinion of M.
Moffitt, a well-known judge and pig
breeder of Billinudgel (N.S.W.), the aver-
age dairy-farmer can carry one sow to
every 10 cows, and the pigs should pay
the rent. Good grazing paddocks of
paspalum and Kikuyu grasses, with skim-
milk and maize, are all that are neces-
sary, in conjunction with proper housing,
to raise pigs at a profit, he says. He
has found paspalum a useful supplement.
“Pappamosca”: N. S. Wales Agricul-
tural Department has made a good move
in importing a Large White boar for
experiment in producing export pork at
Hawkesbury College. The favorite Brit-
ish bacon carcass is 1401 b. to 1801 b.
dressed and a white-skinned cross. The
success of Denmark has been based on
its crossing of Large and Middle Whites
on the native Landrace to produce a
standard pig.


fdf
MODEL 40 —4-valve
A.C. Broadcast Super-
heterodyne for local
reception. Valv e s:
6A7, 6F7, 42, 80.
Cash Price, £l2/19/6.
MODEL 41 —4-valve
Battery Broadcast
Superheterodyne for
local reception.
Valves: IC6, IC4,
IK6, ID4. Cash Price,
complete with Bat-
teries, 19 guineas.
m
m
MODEL 50 —5-valve A.C. Broad-
cast Superheterodyne for reception
of Australian and New Zealand
stations. Valves: 6A7, 6D6, 75,
42, 80. Cash Price, 15 guineas.
MODEL 52 5-valve Vibrator
Broadcast Superheterodyne for
reception of Australian and New
Zealand stations. Valves: IC7G,
IMSG, IMSG, IK7G, ILSG.
Cash Price, complete with Battery,
23 guineas.
Have achieved outstanding popularity everywhere as
rivals of much larger and more expensive consoles for
CLARITY . . . SENSITIVITY . . . DEPENDABILITY.
Despite their compact size—they measure only 14in.
high x lOin. wide x 7in. deep—they give excellent
performance, and all you wish for in radio entertain-
ment, PLUS the advantage of being easily carried
from place to place.
df
JhcM
biq. 6*ll***
Can do a great job of work where condi-
tions are extremely difficult. They can
outdo, in value for money, anything else
that the market has to offer. Particularly
the model 81, featuring Mullard Tele-
Tuning, enabling you to change from
station to station in a flash, accurately,
surely, and swiftly.
CARRY - CASE
Above is illustrated the Milliard Carry-Case, par-
ticularly designed for use with the Vibrator Mantel
Model 52, thus adapting it as a Portable Radio. The
Milliard Carry-Case may, nevertheless, be used as a
snug transportable cover for ALL Milliard Master
Mantels. So convenient if you want to take your
Radio with you. Very strongly constructed in attrac-
tive maroon leather finish. Price 30/.
mm
MODEL 81 —5-valve Special de Luxe A.C.
All-World Console for the reception of
Australian and New Zealand Broadcast and
Overseas Short-wave stations. Introducing
the most fascinating and reliable tuning
device yet offered in Australia—the
Mullard Tele-dial, comprising a series of
easily pre-set mechanical stops operating
on the gang condenser, obviating any
switching or multiplicity of coils and
trimming condensers.
It incorporates eight pre-selected tuning
positions, changeable at will with a simple
locking operation by the user himself,
from the front of the Receiver.
Mechanically and NOT ELECTRICALLY
operated, thus eliminating the use of com-
plicated switch and coil arrangements, so
prone to be affected by ageing and atmo-
spheric conditions.
Automatic Volume Control. Special
Electro-Dynamic Speaker. Cabinet of
specially selected and chosen veneers—
styled and designed to suit the most
fastidious taste. Incorporating new-type
octal base. Valves: 6ABG, 6U7G, 686 G,
6F6G, SY3G. Cash Price, 27 guineas.
mm
w
m
m
.
Featuring the
NEW, SWIFT, SILENT
TUI TUNING
Millar
MULLARD (AUST.) PTY.,
LTD., 26-30 CLARENCE
STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: 87446.
(2 lines).
Qld.: Trackson Bros. Pty., Ltd.,
Brisbane.
S.A.: R. C. Woollard, Adelaide.
W.A.: Carlyle & Co., Perth.
0 MODEL 80A —5-valve A.C. All-world Superheterodyne for reception of
Australian and New Zealand Broadcast and Overseas Short-wave stations.
Incorporates unique Mullard Station Transelector Dial with Airguide
(patented). Fully compensating Automatic Volume Control. Massive,
modern-line Beale Cabinet—BUlLT LIKE A PIANO to harmonise in the
home. 10in. Speaker. Valves: 6A7, 6D6, 75, 42 and 80.
Cash Price 29 guineas
0 BATTERY OPERATED MODELS —S -valve Superheterodyne. Aus-
tralian and New Zealand reception. Straight-line Dial WITH AIRGUIDE.
Automatic Volume Control. Bin. Speaker. Cabinets as Model 80A.
Complete with Batteries.
0 MODEL 71A —Valves: IC4, IC6, IC4, 185, PM22AA (Battery
operation). Price 28 guineas
0 MODEL 72A —Valves: IC4, IC6, IC4, 185, ID4 (Vibrator powered).
Price 33 guineas
Milliard
(fbctM#
N.S.W.: Bloch & Gerber Pty., Ltd.
Geo. Brown & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Westcott, Hazell & Co., Ltd.
Sydney.
VICT.: Howard Radio Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne, Hobart and
Launceston.


The BENGALL Hand Forged Blue Steel RAZOR
mrnm
Unique and attractive in appearance, perfect in
construction, it gives better and longer service
than any Razor you have ever used.
A Creation of Sold with a definite Guarantee of Satisfaction.
Scientific Heat Sizes, Jin. fin., 2in. f Black Handle 12/6
Treatment .. . Xylo. Handle .... 15/-
Obtainable from all Wholesale and Retail Houses.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• *F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
m Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written t
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
now to write and how to sell your stories and articles*
Full details sent on application to
I«C.S« School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell or To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Experienced machine shearer wants early shed,
N.S.W., for self and mate. —19.
Certified expert, qualified all makes of shear-
ing machinery, wants work. —2.
Station hand wants position as jackeroo any-
where in N.S.W. —4.
Small bush home available for married or
unmarried man; pensioner preferred. Gold-
prospecting and odd jobs.—l 3.
To buy or exchange books for an old-
fashioned sundial or pair of large clam shells.
—2l.
To buy Bulletin, March 26, 1881, Sept. 8,
1883, and 1896, 1897 and 1899 complete.
“Bookfellow,” Series 1, Vol. 1 (1899), Nos. 1
(Jan. 7), 2 (Feb. 18), 4 (April 29) and 5 (May
31); Series 11, Vol. 2 (1907), Nos. 6-7 (issued
as “Australia”); Series 111, Vol. 1 (1911-12)
complete, Vol. 7 (1922-23) any issues after
No. 11 (Aug. 15). “Stage and Society” (con-
taining the final “Bookfellow” articles), Jan.,
Feb., April and June, 1926.—12.
To buy, second-hand, Anatomy and Drawing,
by Victor Perard; also old copies of “Britannia
and Eve” and “Printers’ Pie.”—l.
To buy complete issues of “Rydge’s Business
Journal,” 1933-35.-9995.
Stamp collector (beginner) wants to exchange
stamps or reading matter for sets of Island
stamps.—36.
Whereabouts of John Keating Paul, aged 73.
Was Australian soldier in the Sth. African War.
Half-sister in London inquiring.—40.
Information Sought.
(1) What is asphalt, and how is it obtained?
(2) Any books on the subject? —99o6.
(1) A semi-solid sticky residue formed by
partial evaporation or distillation of certain
petroleums. Towards the close of the nine-
teenth century asphalt Was recovered from
certain petroleums by distilling the volatile oils
which held it in solution. Practically all native
asphalt is too hard for direct use and must be
heated until the volatile materials are driven off
and then fluxed or softened to the desired con-
sistency by mixing with it the proper amount
of residual petroleum. Asphalt recovered
directly from petroleum by distillation does
not require fluxing. (2) Asphalts and Allied
Substances, by H. Abraham (Crosby Lock-
wood and Son, London).
* * * *
Selection of aboriginal words meaning
“home” ? —9976.
Ellimatta, Wahroonga, “our home”; Ellimak,
Tabulam, “my house”; Gundamain, “house
near a stream”; Elanora, “home by the sea”;
Jllalangi, “home on a hill”; Canowindra,
“home”; Eniminga, Gooyong, Immarna, Koo-
roora, Mirang, Mooray, Moorong, Narchera,
Weabra, Yuppara, Yaralla, Wahratta, “camp”;
Weerona, Woongarra, Wybalena, “resting-
place” ; Weenga, “to rest”; Yallambi, “to
dwell” or “stay” ; Quinbalup, “a happy place” ;
Marralomeda, “best place on earth”; Mawarra,
“pleasant”; Allambie, “quiet place.”
* * * *
(1) Where does a licensed shorthand-writer
find employment? (2) What are the qualifica-
tions for a license ? (3) / am 23 years, and
have my intermediate certificate. Would it be
possible to qualify as a licensed shorthand-writer
now and obtain employment ? —9926.
(1) There are openings for licensed shorthand-
writers in the Government service, both
Federal and State. (2) For the Federal service
and Vic. it is necessary to hold a Vic. license,
while for N.S.W. it is necessary to pass an
entrance examination. The speed for the Vic.
test is 150 words per minute. In private prac-
tice no certificate qualifications are necessary,
but it is essential to be well known to solici-
tors, public accountants and others who may
be able to influence such work as company
meetings, private examinations, arbitrations, etc.
This practice takes a great deal of working up,
and, with the Government gradually taking
over all inquiries, royal commissions, etc., the
field is becoming more and more limited, and
even well-established people are finding it hard
to get the business. (3) Age limit is 35, so you
could easily qualify. Application for employ-
ment could be made either to the N.S.W. Public
Service Board or to the Commonwealth Crown
Law Department.
* * * *
(1) Who organised the play acted by children
in Sydney Town Hall during centenary celebra-
tions? (2) Did one of the children act the
part of Simeon Lord? —9980.
(1) The Schoolchildren’s Pageant was organ-
ised by a committee appointed by the Educa-
tion Department which was representative of
high schools and intermediate high schools in
.the Sydney metropolitan district. (2) Yes.
* * * *
How are rust stains removed from white
material with chloride of lime? —9964.
Mix lib. chloride of lime in one gallon water,
stir it occasionally for three days, let it settle,
then pour it off. Then make another mixture
from lib. washing soda in lgal. boiling water,
in which soak the linen for 12 hours and boil it
for half-hour; remove and place the linen in the
limewater made as stated, and let it soak for one
hour. Then wash in the usual manner and
rinse well; dry in bright sunlight. A small
quantity of the bleaching solution made from
the lime may be used in the tub in which dis-
colored linens are being washed, and will re-
move slight stains. The attempt to remove rust
stains at home is always attended by risk of
damage to the clothing; work cautiously if the
garments are of good quality.
* * * *
Particulars of the Bayeux tapestry? —4B.
It represents the Norman conquest of Eng-
land, and is believed to be late-eleventh-century
work, though some experts date it 50 to 200
years later. Supposed to have been done under
supervision of Matilda, wife of William the
Conqueror. The work is done in eight different
shades of wool on a band of linen 230 ft. long
and 19£in. deep. There are 79 scenes in con-
tinuous succession, interpreted by inscriptions
in Latin, and supplementary scenes and figures
are worked on the narrow borders above and
below. Its historical value is due to the light
it throws on customs, industries, weapons,
armor, civil and ecclesiastical costumes and
furniture of the period.
* * $ *
Brief description of bird called the noisy
pitta ? —5O.
Sometimes called the dragoon-bird, it is found
on the Queensland and northern N.S.W. coast.
It has a black head, deep green back, black
tail, wing-quills and buff-colored breast. There
are patches of bright metallic-blue on the
shoulders, bright scarlet under the tail and
white on the wings. It inhabits dense scrub,
feeds on insects, snails and fruit, and would
rarely be seen if it did not attract attention by
its loud and constantly-repeated “walk to work.”
* * * *
(1) Method of mixing limewash ? (2) A cheap
white paint for wood or iron ? (3) What
quantity of cement should be mixed with boiled
linseed oil for painting inside a corrugated iron
tank ?■ —9924.
(1) Usually made up by covering quicklime
with water and bringing to boil. When cool,
reduce to brushing consistency, add a small
quantity of salt to assist binding and stir well.
Stir at intervals while using. (2) Any white
paint by a recognised manufacturer should prove
satisfactory. (3) If tank is for water storage,
add sufficient cement to make thick brushing
consistency.
* * * *
How is papier mache used in making relief
maps? Any suitable substitute? —9811.
Papier mache is best for large rough work;
gesso is more expensive, easier to handle and
better for detail. Clay bound with a little lime
can be used, but is not durable. A mixture of
loz. paper waste, 3oz. water, Boz. plaster of
Paris and 4 i tablespoons hot glue will make
a 17oz. lump of papier mache. Soak the torn-
up paper in the water, and when saturated
squeeze out some of the water but do not
dry it. Place it in a bowl, add three table-
spoons hot glue (cabinetmakers’ consistency)
and stir the mass into a soft and sticky paste.
Add the dry plaster and mix well. When about
3oz. of the plaster has been mixed in, the mass
is almost too stiff to work; then add the re-
mainder of the glue and finish the plaster.
Work it thoroughly in the hands, knead and
squeeze it well; if it seems too dry, add a few
drops of water or more glue. If it does not
stick readily to the surface it requires more
glue. Use as soon as possible after making.
If you wish to keep it long, wrap in several wet
cloths and place under an inverted bowl.
Drying can be retarded during modelling by
adding a few drops of glycerine. Gesso is
made from ordinary varnish, £oz. boiled
linseed oil, 4oz. glue and whiting. Dissolve
the glue over gentle heat in water until it is
as thin as treacle, then add the varnish and oil,
stirring all the time. Sift the whiting through
coarse muslin, and add little by little until you
have a thin paste. Place a little on a surface,
and if it spreads add more whiting. Pour
into a tin or glass jar while warm, allow to
cool, and cover with a lid. Ready-mixed dry
gesso paste may be had from art dealers, and
mixed with water for modelling or painting.
* * * *
Recipe for alum tanning? —9BB6.
Wash skins thoroughly in cold water, trim
off broken pieces and hang up to drain. While
still damp spread out fur-side down and sprinkle
with a well-pulverised mixture of four parts
alum and one part saltpetre. Fold skin to
skin, roll and hang for seven to ten days, then
tack out on boards. Make a saturated solution
with equal parts of alum and saltpetre, and
paint on to each skin. Rub with a piece of
pumice when nearly dry. Paint and rub once
a day for four consecutive days. If skins are
hard, paint liberally with strong salt and water,
fasten to boards, and work with a piece of
blunt wood. Hang, and when nearly dry work
well with hands. Tedious work; better to
send good skins to a furrier.
* * * *
(1) / understand that eight of the 14 species
of indigenous land-birds of Lord Howe Island
are extinct. What are their names, popular
and scientific? (2) Any literature on the sub-
ject ?—9695.
(1) The eight extinct birds of Lord Howe
Island are white swamp-hen ( Porphyrio albus),
Lord Howe Island pigeon ( Janthoenas god-
niance), Lord Howe Island parrakeet (Cyano-
rhampus novoezeelandice subflavescens), vinous-
tinted ouzel or doctor bird ( Turdus xanthropus
vinitinctus), Lord Howe Island starling ( Aplonis
fuscus hullianus), robust silver-eye (Nesozoste-
rops strenua), Lord Howe Island fantail (Rhipi-
dura flabellifera cervina ) and Lord Howe Island
flyeater ( Royigerygore insularis). (2) See article,
“The Extinct Birds of Lord Howe Island.” by
K. A. Hindwood, in the “Australian Museum
Magazine” for March 30, 1938.
* * * *
How can 1 joint the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police?—' 9727.
Information regarding service conditions is
obtainable from the Departmental Secretary,
Headquarters Subdivision, Royal Canadian
Mounted Police, Ottawa, Ont., Canada. The
term of enlistment for recruits is five years,
with renewal for a period not exceeding a
further five years.
* * * *
How to grow waratahs from cuttings or seed-
lings ? Type of soil, acid, subacid or alkaline ?
—9662.
Waratahs are not difficult to raise from seed,
but are prone to damp off in the seedling stage.
Method usually adopted is to sow the seed in
a pot or seedpan filled with gritty wood ashes
so that they can be watered freely. They are
usually allowed to remain in those receptacles
until the seedlings become quite hard for pot-
ting off singly. Waratahs are usually found
growing in porous sandstone country which
might be classed as subacid. Cuttings are diffi-
cult to strike.
* * * *
Information regarding the Burnie-Queens-
town ( Tas .) railway? —9749.
The Burnie-Guildford Junction section was
built by the Van Diemen’s Land Co., opened
for traffic on July 14, 1884, and later passed
under control of the Emu Bay Railway Co.
The Guildford Junction-Rayna Junction section
was opened on Dec. 21, 1900, and Rayna Junc-
tion-Zeehan on April 25, 1892. The Zeehan-
Regatta Point section belongs to the Tas.
Government. The Zeehan-Strahan Wharf sec-
tion was opened on Feb. 4, 1892, and Strahan
Wharf-Regatta Point on Oct. 16, 1900. The
Regatta Point-Queenstown section is operated
by the Mt. Lyell Mining and Railway Co. The
Teepookana (on King River)-Queenstown sec-
tion was opened in July, 1896, and Teepookana-
Regatta Point on Nov. 2, 1899.
* * * *
How to regulate the charging current of a
12 -volt accumulator? —35.
Current can be varied to, approximately, the
required value by altering the speed of the
generator. For fine control, a variable resist-
ance of approximately one ohm, and capable
of carrying the full charging current, should be
connected in series with one of the charging
leads. Actual value of this resistance will de-
pend upon charging rate, a high charging rate
requiring a low resistance of heavy-gauge wire,
and a low charging rate a higher resistance of
smaller-gauge wire.
* * * *
Method of bottling orange-juice for home use
so as to keep good for, say, six months? —9.
Take fresh, unblemished fruit and extract the
juice into a china basin, then strain it into a
large saucepan or jam-pan. Place over the
fire, raise the temperature of the juice to about
200 deg. F., and keep it at that rate for about
one hour, but do not let it boil. Have the
bottles heating in the oven, with corks or
stoppers also very hot. Remove from the oven
one at a time, pour in the juice and close
quickly; if a funnel is used for putting the
juice in the bottles, it also' must be sterilised
by heat. When cold, store the bottles in a dry,
dark place. Keeping qualities cannot be relied
upon, however, even if every care is taken.
* * * *
Will the use of magnesite with cement stop
•it from firecracking, and, if so, where can it
be bought? —9B47.
Magnesite is not recommended. Thermoflax,
marketed by Newbold Silica Fire-brick Co., 77
York-street, Sydney, will give excellent results.
Particulars from manufacturer.
* * * *
. How to waterproof a tarpaulin ? —9946.
If the tarpaulin is an old one, dean it well
and smooth it out on a floor or large table.
Then brush it with clean cold water so that
it is damp all over evenly but not wet, when
it is ready for the oil dressing, which should
have been previously prepared and kept hot.
Put one quart boiled linseed oil into a large
tin and make it hot over a closed fire. Scrape
4oz. yellow soap into a basin and cover with
boiling water to form a jelly; then whisk it into
the hot oil, and also stir in one dessertspoon
powdered alum. Stir all well, and while still
hot paint a coating on to the dampened tar-
paulin; brush in well and evenly, and allow
to become perfectly dry. Heat the oil again,
and apply a second coat; dry again, and apply
a third coat to finish. Thorough drying between
coats is most important to avoid incurable
stickiness. The work may take several days,
or even longer in dull weather; drying must be
perfect.
* * * *
Recipe for a paving paint? —99s4.
Add gradually to boiled linseed oil sufficient
red oxide to make a paintlike mixture with
plenty of body. Add about half-pint of hard
carriage varnish to every gallon of paint.
* * * *
Is the consent to the marriage of a minor
required to be given by both parents? —2o.
With reference to an inquiry (9555) asking
whether the consent of the mother as well as
the father is required to the marriage of a minor
the provision in the N. S. Wales Marriage Act
of 1899, as amended by the Acts of 1924,
1925, was quoted. These Acts are still further
amended by the Guardianship of Infants Act
(1934), which provides that where both parents
are living together the consent of both and not
of the father only (as in the principal Act) is
required.
* * * *
(1) What is the greatest number of runs made
by an Australian cricket team in England for
the whole tour ? (2) Name of the captain ?
(3) What, year ? (4) How many matches played?
(5) How many matches does present touring
team have to play? —9941.
(1) 16,069. (2) J. Darling. (3) 1905. (4)
38 matches played; won 16, lost 3, drawn T 9.
(5) 36 matches are on the programme for the
present Australian XI.
* * sS *
Origin of Rugby League football in N.S.W. ?
—43.
It originated in Sydney after a dispute in
the Rugby Union on the adequacy of the allow-
ance for out-of-pocket expenses. At that time
the Union allowed players on tour 4s. per day.
Several demanded more and suggested that
payment should be made even for matches in
the home town on the lines of the English
Northern Union arrangement. This raised the
question of professionalism, and a Rugby
League was formed which agreed to pay its
players 10s. per day and 7s. 6d. lor out-ot-
pocket expenses. Union authorities declared
League players professionals and expelled them.
Brief Answers.
L.P.: About double the published price, plus
cost of binding, plus about 10 per cent., would
be fair value... .J.McL.: Sales tax, Customs
and primage duties on the four pictures would
be about £7 11s. 6d M.A.: Otford tunnel
is 5085 ft. long, single line rising on 1-40 grade
to Sydney and practically straight. Contract
for driving it was let July 22, 1884, date of
completion being stipulated as Dec. 31, 1887.
The tunnel was first used Oct. 3, 1888, and was
abandoned Oct. 10, 1920, when a new double
line giving a 1-80 grade was opened. Cost not
available... .Sinabada: Can’t offer an opinion
on particulars given;* full hands are necessary.
W.D.: Not in the case of an optimist,
with whom the wish influences the thought....
J.F.A.: Place bowl in hot water with plenty
of soap and a liberal dash of household am-
monia. Clean with flannel. If stain is obsti-
nate use good commercial cleaning powder or
a sprinkling of common salt. If unsuccessful
write again, stating whether pure or commer-
cial alabaster... .M.E.: Similar legislation exists
in the other States. If, as you say, the claim
is good in N.S.W., it should be good in Vic.
. ...H.G.G.: Cannot give preference to manu-
factures J.A.M.: Write secretary, Institu-
tion of Surveyors, Science House, Gloucester
and Essex streets, Sydney... .Vega: E. Esdaile,
42 Hunter-street, Sydney... .P.S.: Australia
won the first Test match against England by
45 runs. Charlie Bannerman made 165 in the
first innings... .L.T.S.: (1) No. (2) Over-de-
velopment. (3) Formalin will do. About 1-20.
(4) Write Kodaks, Sydney.... P.T.: 1,385,526
males and 10,804,851 females, according to
Whitaker’s Almanack, 1938... .E.G.S.: Hood,
42,000 tons, eight 15in. guns; Renown, 32,000,
six; Repulse, 32,000, six E.A.S.: Tiles over
wood are not satisfactory. Better to treat the
boards with Penetrol or a coating of hard floor-
paint R.S.: No, there are plenty of oppor-
tunities for qualified accountants; 21 is a good
age at which to start... .R.R.: There are
nearer 3000 than three “kinds of rhythm”
applicable to music. Can’t say what the
dance-band leader meant by “nu rhythm”
H.S.: Write Secretary, Commonwealth Forestry
Bureau, Canberra... .W.H.: Wattle bark of
the N.S.W. North Coast is inferior to that
of the South Coast and of little commercial
value... .C.L.M.: Moore’s Almanac, obtain-
able from Geo. B. Philp and Son, 451 Pitt-
street, Sydney; price 3s. 6d W.J.Y.: Power
of Vic. Commissioner of Taxes to garnishee the
whole or portion of a State pension has not
been tested. Taxation Department’s right to
obtain judgment and enforce payment by issue
of a warrant of distress or the institution of
fraud proceedings would not be affected....
W.G.J.: You cannot “force” them to call a
meeting to ascertain the position of affairs nor
“force” them, without litigation, to refund the
amount of premium you paid; but as a member
of the proprietary co. you are entitled to be
supplied with any information you reasonably
require with regard to the present position of
the company. Draw up a schedule of questions
you desire to have answered, and if not sup-
plied or if refused put the matter in the hands
of a solicitor... .W.C.C.: Pollard is not very
satisfactory. It becomes pasty when eaten and
settles in the horse’s stomach as a firm, indi-
gestible mass. Well distributed through rough-
age up to 41b.-51b. per day may be given.
Under dry conditions dampen the feed with
slightly salted water G.E.: Canberra is an
aboriginal place-name meaning “meeting-place.”
....HAS.: “I Sold My Horses,” by Eric
Lowe, was highly commended as an entry for
the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, and was sub-
sequently published as a serial in The Bulletin.
. ...P.W.: Cannot help without knowing name
of poem... .W.E.L.: Write Spink and Son, 5
King-street, St. James, London, S.W.I
F. (1) No. (2) Yes... .R.K.P.: No special
value; sells for about Is K.R.: Said to owe
its origin to a Cambridge innkeeper who com-
pelled each customer to take the horse nearest the
stable door or none C.M.B. : Book on Irish
setters, by Rowland Johns, is on its way from
England; price 3s. 9d M.C.G.: Second-
hand galvanised-iron is suitable for reinforcing
concrete.... P.T.: Write Agricultural Depart-
ment, Brisbane L.R.: From “The English
Flag,” by Rudyard Kipling... .G. 8.: Menangle,
Uringa, Bundanoom and Wuriga are aboriginal
place-names meaning “swamp,” “a long beach,”
“place of deep gullies” and “clearing” respec-
tively D.R.S.: Australia 2,974,580 sq. m„
Greenland 827,300, New Guinea 330,000, Borneo
280,000, Baffin Land 236,000 and Mada-
gascar 228,000... .H.T.: Sivash, or Putrid Sea,
is a lagoon on the east side of Crimea
G. : Mix loaf sugar, loz. citric acid,
and rind and juice of two lemons. Pour
over one quart boiling water, let stand
till cold and stir occasionally. Stir and
bottle. A wineglass to a tumblerful of water.
. ...L.D.T.: King Amanullah of Afghani-
stan abdicated on Jan. 14, 1929 N.C.E.:
Film is black and white and broken into color
through a system of filters L.F.: Write
Under-Secretary, Premier’s Department, Sydney.
L.T.: Try eucalyptus or benzine. If gar-
ment is valuable, send it to a professional
cleaner... .H.T.: From Angus and Robertson,
Sydney... .1.R.: Too vague; send further par-
ticulars, including age P. 0.: Sydney to
London, via Vancouver, 12,925 miles, via Cape
Horn 12,051, via Suez direct 11,603, via Cape
of Good Hope 13,379... .J.T. : Yes, the dog
watches. First 4 p.m. to 6 p.m,, and second
6 p.m. to 8 p.m V.R.: The first Common-
wealth Parliament was elected on March 29
and 30, 1901. First session commenced May 9,
1901, and closed Oct. 10, 1902; second session
commenced May 26, 1903, and closed Oct. 22,
1903; dissolved Nov. 23, 1903 P.C.: Highest
mountain in W.A. is Mt. Bruce (4024 ft)


WIN £lO
DO YOU
LIKE TO
DRAW?
PRIZES
Ist Prize
2nd „ -
3rd „ -
4th „ -
sth „ -
6th „ -
- £lO
- £5
- £3
- £2
- £1
- 10/-
##
Then here is a chance to win £lO
easily. This Drawing Competition is
being held to advertise the Australian
School of Sketching. Everyone can
compete except Professional Artists,
employees and students of the Aus-
tralian School of Sketching.
Rules of the
Competition
1. Anyone is eligible to compete
except employees and students
of the Australian School of
Sketching and Professional
Artists.
2. All sketches must be received
by 26th July, 1938.
3. Only one sketch may be sub-
mitted by each competitor.
4. The bottom left-hand corner of
the envelope should be marked
plainly—“ Competition.”
5. Competitor’s full name and ad-
dress must be written on the
back of the drawing, with
State.
6. Sketches must not be drawn on
paper larger than Bin. high by
6in. wide.
7. All sketches will be returned
to competitors at the close of
the competition, together with
a list of the prize-winners. The
Australian School of Sketch-
ing cannot be held responsible
for any sketch which may be
lost in the mails or elsewhere.
8. Sketches must be accompanied
by a postal note value 1/6 (one
shilling and sixpence). Please
do not send stamps or coins.
9. Sketch and postal note MUST
BE SENT IN THE SAME EN-
VELOPE. Competitors are par-
ticularly requested NOT to
send their sketches in one en-
velope and postal note under
separate cover.
10. Sketches received insufficiently
stamped will not be accepted.
All packages should be sealed
and bear letter rate of postage
(1 oz. for 2d.)
11. Competitors agree to accept the
decision of the Artists of the
Australian School of Sketching
as final and conclusive.
12. The Australian School of
Sketching reserves the right to
purchase any sketch submitted.
Any sketches purchased will he
paid for at the rate of £2/2/-
(two guineas) for each sketch.
BEGIN HIOWI c °Py this sketch
~ * «WWW . in pencil or pen
and ink. See how well you can do it. Sit down and try.
First of all read the Rules of the Competition/ You can draw
on any paper. Prizes will be awarded to the best drawings.
All drawings will be returned to the competitors at the close
of the competition. DON'T MISS THISI SOMEONE WILL
WIN THE £lO. WHY NOT YOU? Send in your sketch to-day.
cn
THE
AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL
OF SKETCHING
123 A.C.A. BUILDING
KING STREET, SYDNEY
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Cush”: A job that would suit some
of our retired politicians has received
publicity in England by the death of
the holder, one Barber, of Winchelsea,
who for 50 years has filled the responsible
office of “Looker-out for the French
Fleet.” After the town had been sacked
by the French some 500 years ago the
aldermen of Winchelsea resolved to leave
nothing to chance and created the office
of special watchman. Twice a day he
has to go to the lookout post and scan
the Channel for suspicious characters.
The fact that Winchelsea is nowadays
some distance inland makes no difference.
# * * *
“Runa”: Mention of the varied
nationalities round King’s Cross, Syd-
ney, recalls the horde of Balkan and
Austrian settlers M.L. had when the
Great War began. When bringing in
their kauri-gum for sale one and all in-
sisted that they belonged to Rumania,
Serbia, Albania, Montenegro and the
like. After listening to these recitals
all one morning the boss was feeling
slightly satiated, when old Fritz Schmitt
arrived with his weekly digging. “Hallo,
Fritz,” the boss greeted him genially,
“let’s hear what you are —Swiss, Bel-
gian or Dutch.” Old Fritz had been
warned by one of the Balkanites to
change his nationality and was feeling
indignant. “I am notting of dat,” he
shouted. “I am der tarn Sherman. But
der Kaiser is a fool and my poys vill
fight him!” One of Fritz’s Maoriland-
born sons picked up a couple of decora-
tions for his part in the war.
* * * *
“Tuatara”: Folk who think it appal-
ling for humans to be rounded up with
a stockwhip should have known our
backblocks M.L. district when the first
school was built there. Old Tammas
McPhairson, the wealthiest landholder,
had three grown-up sons working and
ten other youngsters of school age, and
he decreed that the whole ten should
start their education immediately. The
ten objected, and for the first week
it was one of the sights of the
countryside to see the ten young Macs
coming down the road, howling, pro-
testing and cursing, but hurrying along,
as at the rear marched “Paw,” ominously
cracking the longest stockwip he owned.
Even when they were safely inside
“Paw” roamed round cracking the whip
to prevent a young McPhairson from
escaping through a window. It took
about a month to reconcile the family to
a life of culture, but the stockwhip and
paternal determination did it in the end.
* * *
“Mengamok”: The Abyssinian who
ran amuck in Rome was conforming to
Malay tradition. Seeing a Lion of
Judah at the foot of an Italian
monument, he knelt down and prayed
loudly for several minutes. When
he was moved on by a militiaman he
slashed the latter’s cheeks with a dagger,
then drew a sword and amucked. I once
saw a Malay working himself up to the
same state of frenzy on a small Dutch
steamer running between Singapore and
Macassar. He was suddenly observed
squatting on a hatch plunged in pro-
found depression. Being familiar with
the symptoms, the crew and native pas-
sengers gradually drew away. Like
a bronze deity he sat there for two
hours, brooding, while you could have
heard a pin drop if it had not been for
the chugging of the engines. Then, by
some strange chance or other, his
obsessed brain lightened and a faint gleam
of reason flitted across his gloomy coun-
tenance. He slowly rose to his feet, and
four Malay seamen promptly pounced
upon him. A long butcher’s knife was
found hidden in his sarong. A few
minutes later he was chatting cheerfully
to his wife and family.
* * * *
“The Ditch”: American racing men
came to the end of a long trot of bad
luck when Flares, American-bred and
owned by William Woodward, chairman
of the N.Y.J.C., won the Ascot Gold
Cup. Flares is a brother to Omaha,
who was a thermit-hot favorite for the
1936 Cup but was beaten by the English
mare Quashed. The brothers are de-
barred from the English Studbook —
some cloud obscures the female side —
though they are both in the Yankee
volume ; they are by Gallant Fox from
Flambino, whose dam, Flambette, was
by the 1914 Derby winner, Durbar 11.
It was 56 years since an American horse,
Foxhall, owned by financier Keene, lifted
the Ascot Gold Cup, although the
achievement was ascribed to a well-
loved American biped in between. The
reference occurred in a newspaper poster:
Mark Twain Arrives.
Ascot Gold Cup Stolen.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
E.J.8.: That chaser nearly pushed his way
in S.H.: Dull E.F.: You might unload
it on a woman’s paper A.S.S.: “Devil wor-
shippers, inhuman monsters, fiendish monks,
beautiful girls and gallant men.” No, thanks.
F.C.H.: Can’t make much of half a story.
A.L.M.: Nothing in that batch... .T.V.H.:
Longwinded B.McK.: Not quite what we
want, but keep trying D.R.: Nothing out of
the ordinary about Henry... .W.J.H.: Too
slight D.S.: We wept so much at the end
of the first chapter we couldn’t read any
further... .J.P.: No place here for the heroics.
J.M.MacK.: Why not send it to the artist?
C.G. (California): “Throw in w.p.b. if
n.g.” Rt, hve dne so; stories Aust. sttg
alwys wlcm... .T.E.McC.: Are you unhappily
married? J.S.: Thanks, but it’s off the track.
....W.P.8.: “Respectfully pondered” it, but
it’s a very mild thunderstorm G.C.G.: A
garden is a lovesome thing, God wot, but we
don’t believe in fairies E.L.M.: Good ideas
spoilt by diffuseness, weak rhymes and weak
jokes J.0.-C.: Smiled, but that’s all
P.M.R.: This is no place for “Innocence”
W.H.: Tragic, indeed... .S.St.: Jingle
approved; but we still couldn’t publish lines
like “Nature’s original fun”....A.M.W. and
A.H.H.: A few years away yet... .S.L.R.:
Baffled bards are always asking “What do I
seek?”... .T.J.R.: Suggest a little warm milk
last thing at night for dreaming miners
T.T.R.: Rhyme’s better than its logic V.C.:
Condensed to eight lines it might do for
Smoke-0h... .A.W.: “Do we know our
A B C?” Not of verse-making, apparently....
E.K.: The Marx Brothers should have been
more hilarious than that H.H.: Singing
cowboy racing hell-for-leather back to old
mountain home.». .H.K.W.: Sending Witless
Willie back to your tender care... .H.D.A.J.:
Off our beat G.J.R.: No place for Bill here,
but you should place him.... A. 8.5.: Not up.
Couldn’t quite believe Leonard the
Liar... .M.L.M.: It just misses... .D.W.:
Neatly done, but rather too slight R.W.:
Runaway girls pour out their life stories to
utter strangers only in unpublished fiction.
C.A.B.: You created the atmosphere, then
left the yarn in the air G.E.: An incident,
no more... .T.E.P.: Trite... .S.M.: Much
ado about very little.. 1 .A.A.: Fantastic
enough for burlesque, but treated seriously it
fails to satisfy E.R. (M.L.): Belierdrama.
G.A.: “Street Lamp” the best J.F.:
Spotted the ending half-way through... .E.W.:
Not bad, but dialogue needs tightening
J.W.: Fair, but it needs more punch
That soliloquy becomes deadly monotonous,
and the plot is weak W.S.T.: Nice little
bit of philosophy, but that’s all V.C.: No.
P.D.M.: Plot very ordinary J.A.L.: Promis-
ing; keep up the good work G.E.E.
(Canada): Doesn’t raise much interest in this
hemisphere C.M.: Nothing in it
T.R.McC.: The rich uncle disguised as a tramp
is an old friend; other below standard....
M. 8.: Neither raises a laugh C.N.S.: Spies,
men about town, “derisive laughter.” N 0!....
P.R.N.: We stained it with a tear or two,
then dropped it in the basket J.D.R.:
“Bubbles” floating homewards T.S.D.: It’s
resting in the office morgue P.S.D.: “Alco-
holic Absolution” sent us hurrying for a stiff
noggin H.T.: Nicely typed R.V.1.:
“Wildflowers” very common L.D.C.: You’ll
need more steam to hit whatever you’re driving
at... .L.P.R.: Inflict them elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.D.R.: Couldn’t get that three-legged cow
into a bail K.P.: Haven’t you ever seen
a modern car? D.A.P.: Why do all your
characters float about with their feet off the
ground? F.W.: Silhouettes are found only in
antique shops these days J.G.T.: Couldn’t
reproduce those scratchy nightmares J.M.:
Keep trying, but make the gags brighter
R.G.: You’re merely copying another man’s
style... .N. 8.: Unk White illustrated that joke
a couple of weeks back J.K.: You’ve
crowded the drawing so much the figures are
indistinguishable R.L.T.: Now take lessons
in perspective....C.F.: Try us again when
you’ve finished your studies D.N.S.:
Couldn t understand why the apparently well-
fed lion was eating his own tail T.L.: This
The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
week’s worst P.C.8.: Gags must be origi-
nal ; and color drawings are no good to u 5....
G.M.E.: They’re not funny T.E.G.: You’re
improving; keep trying, but leave out the deco-
rated borders W.M.: Our grandfathers
laughed at that wheeze C.R.A.: Why
haven’t your stockmen any forearms?
S.D.S.: Drawing smudgy, and joke in bad
taste... .M.H.: Good fashion drawings, but
your figures have no life.
“K.” on airline safety:
Heavy clouds and misty rain shrouded the
Essendon (Vic.) landing-ground with a 110 ft.
ceiling. Services were cancelled, and inter-State
airliners on other routes were ordered down
at still-clear country ’dromes. A Melbourne-
bound Australian National Airways Douglas
which had cleared Hobart about midday re-
turned when weather conditions prevented a
Launceston landing. It refuelled and headed
direct for Essendon. Conditions sent it back to
Launceston. Western Junction field was now
blotted out, so the big £30,000 mail ’plane
changed course again and landed, with its five
passengers and crew of three, at the Flinders
Island ground, with plenty of petrol still aboard.
It was a safety-first performance that should
enhance the high air-service standard already
established by A.N.A. It proved the value of
the intermediate landing-ground policy; and it
provided good reason for speeding completion
of the ultra-short-wave directional system and
beam landing aids at Essendon and other major
Australian airports.


mm
• ECON°^ C^flita
StefUf
• &
u**
SB
Owners say:
MODEL “M” (Illustrated)
Gives up to 31 Horsepower.
Averages 1 Gal. Fuel per Hour.
Remarkably Free from Mechanical Troubles.
Always on the Job and No Time Lost.
A SIZE AND TYPE IN WHEEL AND TRACK TYPE
TRACTORS FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Headquarters
- House -
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
df
N-Q-Branch
STURT S'.
TOWNSVILLE
ENCINEERINC Supply C9of AUSTRALIA E TO
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
"The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations . • >» 15
Sheep bought » 20
Wire netting » 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared
- GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1938 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
XVIII.
Terry knew, and had known, a good
many lews. He had boxed with some,
betted with others, met two or three
after an J.W.W. rally he had attended
out of curiosity, and worked with half a
dozen in his P.L.L. and Anti-Conscription
League branches.
For the Jew as pugilist he had the
greatest respect. There was one in Syd-
ney, a New Yorker, who, though only a
lightweight, would tackle anyone—twelve-
stoners preferred. He had taken his
motto from Fitzsimmons, ‘‘the bigger
they are the harder they fall”; only he
had to be content with outpointing big
fellows, being deficient in punching
power. And Jews who couldn’t fight
were, as a rule, fond of seeing the play
of padded fists on Gentile faces and
bodies, so their race was an asset to the
Game.
When in Perth he must have met all
the Jews in the place. Not the little
Rabbi — he had gone to the war; nor the
young Jews who belonged to the Y.A.L.
—they had gone, too, and suffered. There
was one, Issy Mendelovitz, who had
fallen with Lalor at The Landing, and
whose fate had inspired a fellow-member,
now an eminently successful lawyer, to
write a monody in free verse, beginning:
Issy is dead!
And we are left mourning.
issy, it seemed, though only a kid,
had been one of the personalities of the
Y.A.L., and a Turkish bullet had cut
short what might have been a career of
distinction.
Nor, of course, did Mac Sherry meet
Colonel Markomann, whose fine soldierly
qualities had helped to make the 16th
Battalion as famous as any in the A.I.F.
Born in south Russia, he had spent part of
his youth in Palestine and was to return
to it as a British soldier and admimstra-
But Terry had been introduced to
nearly all the elders of the Jewish com-
munity— shopkeepers, investors, pawn-
brokers, bookmakers. Also to Sammy
Levien, the bookmaker’s clerk, who,
though half-way through the forties and
sedentary in his habits, had got into
khaki. Sammy took the war so seriously
that during his months of training at
Blackboy camp he had giving up going
to the races and would talk of nothing but
the cou ™e of the campaigns, musketry
practice, fire trenches and the like,
And Terry had often lunched and
supped in M. (short for Moses) Glup-
stein’s restaurant in Hay-street.
Terry was in Glupstein's one night
when the windows were broken by wild
reinforcements from New South Wales,
The Russians had been horribly defeated
by the legions of Hindenburg and
Mackensen, and Constantine s Greeks had
turned against the Allies, being anxious
to be on the winning side. French and
British marines had been treacherously
shot by Greeks at the Piraeus, and the
wild reinforcements from New South
Wales were out for vengeance,
Police guarded the entrance to Mr.
Glupstein’s restaurant and prevented the
reinstoushments from pinching his choco-
lates through the broken windows.
Hustled off the footpath, they stood in
the roadway and raised rude shouts, in
which their opinions of the Greek nation
and the reigning family were plainly, it
monotonously, expressed,
Terry sat at the only table that was
occupied. With him were Alec Mc-
Foozle, a Labor member, and Dave Wat-
terson, who was manager of the “Toiler”
newspaper. To them came Mr. Glup-
stein looking the picture of misery,
“A bad beezness, gentlemens—a very
bad beezness,” he said, “an’ vot have 1
done to deserve it?”
“Nothing, of course, Glupstein,” said
McFoozle, who was a dry stick ; “but
they think you’re a Greek.”
“ A Grik?” Glupstein echoed ; “I ain’t
no G r jk ”
“Then what are you, Glupstein?” asked
jyjcFoozle, who knew well enough,
„ Me? Fm a Jew _ a Polish Jew ;>
“A Polish Jew? That means you came
from Russia, where they make the steam-
rollers. Then you re all right If f were
you I could settle this trouble in two
minutes. , ,
You am t kiddin me. Den how.
“Get a big sheet of paper and a paste-
pot and write on it in big letters—the
paper, not the pastepot —that you are a
citizen of our gallant ally, Russia. Some-
thing like this: “I, M. Glupstein, am not
a Greek. I am a Russian. —Signed, M.
Glupstein.’ Paste it on the
if there is any window left —and you re
set.
Mr. Glupstein had listened eagerly, his
lips parted, his gaze fixed on the Laboi
member; but when he had heard Mc-
Foozle out his face fell.
“Dat's all right,” he sadly said — “dads
ali right; all very veil for you. But vot’s
a bletty man goin’ to do if Russia tvists ?
And now Russia had “tvisted,” and
Ikey Blaubaum, when Terry encountered
him in Pitt-street, Sydney, seemed highly
elated about it. Terry thought this
strange, for Ikey sported a rejected volun-
teer’s badge and idolised John Monash.
Ikey belonged to the Tailors and
Tailoresses’ Union. Already Commu-
nism was beginning to attract tailors and
cobblers. Sitting in one place so long,
year in and year out, they were apt to
think too much, and in fancy cast them-
selves for heroic parts in revolutions that
would never happen.
Working away morosely on ladies’
skirts and soles, many a snip and many
a shoemender have seen themselves
madly loved by Beauteous. Terrorists.
“Well, Ikey,” Terry said, “you ought
to be proud of your Monash now. Any
Irishman would be proud if an Irishman
were commander-in-chief of the Aus-
tralian Army.”
“I’m proud, all right,” Ikey replied.
“Did I ever tell you I met Monash when
I was a kid in Melbourne? I was an
office boy in a brewery and Monash Used
to call on the manager, old Colonel Bis-
senberger. Many’s the sprat he tipped
me, but I wasn’t interested in soldiering,
and that was the only thing he and the
colonel talked about. I’ll bet he’s the
first censor that ever became head of an
army.
“Censor?”
“Yes; that’s how he started in this
war. Just as well they took him from
that job. Fancy a military genius being
condemned to go through the war doing
Billy Pew’s dirty work. But what do
you think of Trotsky?”
“Trotsky? Do you mean one of those
blokes who have taken Russia out of the
war?”
“Out of the imperialist war, you
mean? Yes. But you’ll see he’ll turn it
into a workers’ war, and then the workers
—that’s you and me —will come into
their own. Marvellous man, Trotsky ;
the most wonderful Jew in modern his-
tory.”
“I don't know enough about him to
offer an opinion, but 1 don t like what
he’s done. I never cared for quitters, and
what else is he, this Trotsky, and this
Lenin and their Russians? Quitters, the
whole ruddy lot of them."
“What else could they do but quit?
Tell me that.”
“Fight it out until they were knocked
out or they knocked the Germans out.”
“But they were settled.”
“Settled when they were still three to
the Germans’ one, and the French and
the British and the Australians bogging
into the Germans on the other side!
Don’t talk rot!”
“I tell you they fought till they couldn’t
fight any more.”
“Every pug who wants to turn it
up thinks that when he is getting a
bashing, but the fellow whose heart’s in
the right place keeps going till he’s
stopped. ‘l’ll try another round,’ he says
to himself—or his seconds say it to him,
if he is too far gone to think —‘and per-
haps- I’ll fluke him with a punch or out-
game him.’ The Russians could have
tried another round, but they preferred
to flop. Floor-huggers, I call ’em!”
“Well, I’m for them, and I say Trot-
sky is going to prove himself the greatest
Jew of the century and the liberator of
the world.”
“You seem to have forgotten Monash
pretty quick.”
“No, I haven’t.”
“Well, it can’t have occurred to you
that because this Trotsky’s quitted Mon-
ash will have a much tougher job. His
army will have to fight hordes of Ger-
mans from Russia; and I’ve got a
brother in it. No, Ikey, the Russians
are quitters, and because they are quit-
ters heaps of poor devils on the Western
Front will die.”
Without another word Ikey turned on
his heel and walked towards Central
station. The thought came to Terry that
Jews were like horses —they ran in all
shapes and were as incomprehensible to
the casual observer.
(To be continued .)
Hitherto, efforts by Sydney black-and-
white artists to form an association have
f a ji ed The latest looks like succeeding,
About 150 of the fraternity attended a
meeting, elected Stan Cross president and
heard Will Ashton, resplendent in tails,
wish them good luck. The clubrooms
lurk up a staircase near The Bulletin
building, and Ashton, recalling Phil May,
Vincent and Low, found the site appro-
priate. The club proposes to look after
its members socially, culturally and
materially, and will build up reference
and costume libraries.


The Canadian
Australasian route to
Europe blends delight-
fully the vibrant,
youthful vitality of
Canada and the lan-
guid, unspoiled charm
of the South Sea
Islands.
Monthly sailings
via New Zealand,
Fiji, Hawaii and
Canada.
For full information apply:
HE SUFFERED AGONY
IN WET WEATHER
Rheumatism Attacked Limbs
and Body.
He had been bothered with rheumatism for
years. The pain in wet weather —to use his
own expression—was “indescribable.” But all
that is gone now—thanks to Kruschen. Read
this letter:
“I suffered with rheumatism for years. I
dreaded wet weather, for during such periods
the pain was continuous and indescribable.
To begin with, it was confined to my limbs,
but in time I began to suffer as much agony
in my body as I did in my limbs. When I
began to take Kruschen Salts, I found it did
me more good than all the other medicine I
had taken put together. To-day, I have peace
and freedom from pain, even during wet
weather, and can heartily recommend Kruschen
Salts to anyone who suffers from rheumatism.”
—N.M.
Rheumatic conditions are the result of an
excess of uric acid in the body. Two of the
ingredients in Kruschen Salts have the power
of dissolving uric acid crystals. Other ingredi-
ents in these Salts assist Nature to expel the
dissolved crystals through the natural channels.
fStiSph
lit
i
f THE
' "CRESS-
BROOK"
£l4/76/6
(COMPLETE)
First 1 - class
w orkmanship
and materials
throughout.
Suitable for
park, polo or
ladies’ use, it
is a “Kemp” type
saddle and has a
narrow non - chafing
grip-
N.S.W. RAIL FREIGHT
PAID FOR CASH
WITH ORDER.
WALTHER *. STEVEMSOM
395 CEORCE ST. SYDMEY
pxr.
LTD.
f ame is -
Z7Je/?c
GTGallum’s
‘"Jlie CUAisAyis
x \
£r
S 3
ScP
~t - --
itoJ"
38—2
Distributors for the House of McCallunr
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantle
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. Hobart
&
m
&
W
ISk
ss
iiv
xl'nP-'
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.),
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
STADIUM NIGHT OUT
It was the night the First Politician
had to put in a good half-hour thawing
out his pitchfork before extending hos-
pitality to the latest batch of mining
speculators. Four greyhounds, exercising
in Rushcutter Bay Park, snapped in two,
and Count von Luckner got ashore from
his yacht by leaping from word to word
as his lecture froze in front of him.
Stadium spectators turned up muffled to
the ears, some of them additionally bring-
ing their wives along, but most putting
their faith in the more certain comfort
of rugs and blankets.
First item they witnessed was a four-
rounder—at least, that was the schedule.
The night was responsible for its being
less than a 40-seconder. In that time,
in fact, it was not only all over, but all
“ What's Wrong? All the girls in Sydney are wearing their skirts higher .”
parties thereto—pugs, bottleholders and
ref. —were out of the ring again. Either
the night froze Jack Maher (Bst. 41b.) into
immobility, or it imbued Freddy Briar
(same weight) with an urgent desire to
stave off frostbite. Freddy—of a hue
and facial design that wouldn’t be in-
appropriate stalking goanna in the Gulf
country—moved to the middle of the
ring when the bell sounded and let loose
a wallop that would have knocked the
Southern Cross into a more credible
shape if only Jack hadn’t been in the
road. Jack hit the canvas and rose with
the ill-advised alacrity of his boxed
namesake, whereupon Freddy threw an-
other punch at that possum in the top
branch, and Jack fell
like Lucifer,
Never to rise again,
or, at all events, not till the application
of his bottleholders’ cold hands had
shocked him back to consciousness.
Next item lasted a bit longer, but not
much. In this Jack Marshall (list. 101 b.),
whose appearance seemed to speak elo-
quently of sunlit plains extended, made
a thoroughly tradesmanlike job of Chris
Richards (list. 121 b.). If the guess as
to this Jack’s origins is right, it behoves
all shearers’ cooks to speak politely in
future to strangers weighing about list.
101 b., just in case of coincidence. It was
in the second round he did it, and his
technique was such as is not often seen
these days from even the best of them.
That is, he shook Chris with a weighty
one to the jaw, but then went below, to
the solar, for the k.o. It mightn’t sound
anything very novel, but it’s astonishing
how few remember that when the other
cove’s shaken high up he’s likely to leave
himself vulnerable down under.
That was two knockouts in no time.
Two six-rounders followed, and in neither
did the contestants need camel-hair over-
coats between rounds. In the first Jim
West (9st. 101 b.), who’d be a fine boy
if he had a punch in his left hand, closed
an optic of Billy Jobson (9st. 81b.) very
early in the piece, despite which mis-
adventure Bill proved himself at least as
good as Lord Nelson under a similar han-
dicap, and won the Trafalgan battle on
points.
The other six-rounder was an even
tougher fight; Hock Kuskey (lOst. 41b.)
and Jimmy Sutherland (lOst. 81b.) per-
forming in a manner that would have
brought a shower of coin hurtling into
the ring on any night the spectators’
hands weren’t frozen into their pockets.
Hock, an extra good boy for this class
of fight, had been out of the game for
some time with a broken finger, and
was short of a gallop. Even so, the more
Jimmy damaged him —and it was a pretty
gory affray—the keener he fought back.
Still, he was mostly in trouble, and James
seemed to just about shade him on points,
though Joe Wallis possibly assessing
that each had lost precisely the same
amount of gore—called it even.
These occurrences having lifted the
temperature appreciably, spectators were
ready to greet the wrestlers with salvos
of boos and applause. The match had
been arranged by popular vote, the voters
displaying keener judgment than is often
displayed at the polls by selecting Rudy
la Ditzi (16st. 31b.) as most suitable
victim for Ray Steele (16st.). A week
or two previously Rudy had put on a
show which made Granny “Herald” burst
seven layers of corsets indignantly recom-
mending such “disgraceful exhibitions”
to the attention of the Government. Apart
f rom the fact that about the only effect
0 f “Granny’s” hysterics would be to send
Ministerialists flashing their gold passes
t th t “disgraceful exhibition”
« GrannvV > • ® ~ t bi « T
yranny s a F 1 was a 1 , to bllly , ’
since tbe . J°hn Hops have ample
P°wers as it is. Anyway, Rudy had only
hung the ref. up by the neck in the
r°pes, and what’s wrong with that? If
wishes were acts it’s precisely what would
have happened to every referee who ever
reffed.
Anyway, here was Rudy in the ring
again by virtue of popular vote—a vote
that was to be we h justified by the event.
, Not that he won ;he lost — but where he
lost by a fall any other wrestler at pres-
ent in sight would have lost by a glissade,
Steele, who wears his pelt about the hue
that’s fashionable at Bondi in summer,
is both one of the strongest and one
of the finest wrestlers seen in these parts,
He gave Rudy no time for antics—for
anything except trying to get out of holds,
Rudy (that prodigious grunter) is no
mutt at this game, but pretty well every
hold he applied Steele turned into a hold
on him. There was nothing to spare for
showmanship, but as a sheer strong-man
struggle it was a show in a hundred,
After each round Steele sat in his
corner, bent forward with arms on his
knees, like a stone image. He gave the
idea of a horse waiting in its stall for l a
race—a likely sort of a horse. A veteran
of the game—reputed to have been at it
f or over 20 years —he’s as finished a
tradesman as ever turned a job. These
wrestlers evidently wear as well as axe-
men of the Leo Appo breed. In sheer
strength this Steele is as good as ten,
and not too many bank clerks among
’em, either. For his age and his size
both, he’s unaccountably fast.
He beat Rudy very comfortably on
points, apart from the fall he inflicted
on him—a fall which also went to estab-
hsh the toughness of Rudy. It was
brought about by a succession of dumps
wherein Steele lifted Rudy’s 16st. 31b
head high and dumped it down on to
the canvas with a force which—the first
time, especially— must have just about
cracked the ring flooring. That was in
the fifth round, and the sound of Rudy
thus whacking the canvas was still ringing
in the ears when Steele pulled on his
dressing-gown at the end of the eighth
and went off as unostentatiously as the
lad who stopped Freddy Briar’s possum-
woodener in the night’s first scrap.


REFERRED TO DRAWER
BY FRED W. DENNIS.
I.
£ 4 71 N Australian, eh?” said the United States
/ 1 Consul suspiciously. “The last Australian
V. | visitor we had here would have had the
town under mortgage in a fortnight if we
hadn’t substituted our own pack of cards in time.
Consider yourself under the suspicion of the Customs.
In the meantime, have a drink. My name's McGarrity. ’
Thus tabulated and set aside by the town of
Placidos as an item on its unhurried agenda of events,
I gladly availed myself of the proffered bottle.
Placidos was curled around a little bay that was
an arm of the Caribbean Sea, pushed up against it
by a spur of the Cordilleras, whose turrets over-
shadowed the place as they had once overshadowed
the landing parties of Captain Kidd. It was an
undistinguished township in an immaterial republic.
The main street had a solitary occupant display-
ing an ingenuous expanse of bare hide as she
stood on her toes to fill a pitcher at the fountain.
The other members of the population were con-
spicuous by their absence. The strength of the noon-
day sun was past, but the republicans had not yet
ventured from the shade of their patios where they
smoked the cigarette that follows the aguardiente, and
in the dim recesses of the palm huts brown children,
and pale-olive children, and chocolate-colored
children, and burnt-sienna children rolled naked on the
clay floors to complete the scene of abandoned otiosity.
In all that green-and-yellow land there was no
more drastic activity than the waves of the ocean
as they gently washed the coastline. It might even
have occurred to an unkindly disposed observer that
the coastline was about the only part of the republic
that ever did get seriously washed, water, to all
appearances, only receiving official recognition as a
background for American whisky.
1 T was at McGarrity’s bungalow that night that I
1 met old Everett.
“1 want you to meet the old boy,” -he told me.
“He’s a countryman of yours arid he likes to talk about
the place. You’ll brighten , h,im up. ' Most of us
around here have spot for him. Incidentally,
he 11 tell you that- he’s going home shortly and that
he s expecting a letter by the next boat. He’s been
expecting it for ten years, so don’t let it worry you.
Otherwise he’s quite normal. Here he comes now.”
An old gentleman with snow-white hair and a
white moustache had materialised out of the darkness.
He was a very thin old gentleman, but he held himself
erect and was led by the hand by a brown-skinned,
barefooted republican who might have been eight
years of age. My host had omitted to mention that
the ojd man was blind.
There was no mistaking the unexpressed delight
when McGarrity mentioned my country. Even his
sightless old eyes seemed to light up.
“Well, well! ” he murmured. “An Australian!
It is not often they drift into Placidos. I am an
Australian myself, but it is nearly forty years since
1 have been there.”
“You might think,” he added a little later when
we were sitting sipping our drinks in the wraith of
a breeze that had stolen up from the bay, “that an
exile of nearly forty years’ standing would have had
done with the twinges of regret, but I’m afraid I
didn’t leave the country when I was young enough.
I have found the lotus a little indigestible.
“When,” he smiled,
“one goes to sleep at night
convinced that the ceiba-
trees around him have
changed into river oaks and
he can smell the eucalyp-
tus wafted from the palm
fronds, he might as well
admit he hasn’t been assimi-
lated into the country, don’t
you think?”
He laughed quietly to
himself as he made the con-
fession, but his eyes had the
uncanny effect of seeming
to stare past me as if they
could see through the dark-
ness.
“What part do you come
from?” he asked abruptly.
“New South,” I admitted.
“South Coast originally.”
“Ah, I know it only
slightly. I come from New
South Wales myself, but from
the west. I am going back
shortly. I am waiting on an
important letter that is due on
the next mail. In fact, I ex-
pected it to arrive on the boat
that brought you in.”
McGarrity looked across
to me and tapped his forehead
significantly.
“Do you know the west at
all?” inquired the old man.
“I was out there for a time
once. It struck me as being a bit on the gritty side.”
“Ah, you must go when it is green. When all
the rivers run and the grass is over the horses’ heads
and when the ibis fly from the east. You must
go when the wild ducks nest in the lignum and the
scent of the gidgee is abroad in the evening; in the
time of the lagoons when the brolgas dance on the
plain and the frogs chorus in the gilgai holes. That
is when you must go put west.”
I was a little overcame by the unexpected poetic
outburst. It had all been spoken quietly, almost in-
audibly, and I murmured some trite compliment on
the retention of the old man’s memory.
“It is not a matter of memory,” he said simply.
“I can see it.”
"THAT was only a beginning. From then on the old
I man talked and we listened. As I sat there that
banana land receded and shrivelled up, and in its
place he presented with a sort of unobtrusive magic
the land of the eucalyptus. I had a queer feeling
that I was listening to the last of the troubadours in
a day when the weaver of tales roamed the country-
side and depended for his livelihood on his ability
to conjure up his scene in the minds of his audience.
It was nearly morning when he went home. Even
the fireflies had gone out and his diminutive escort
had long been slumbering on the patio. He shook
me warmly by the hand before he left. I would be
staying at Placidos for a while? I would. For a
few days, perhaps? I expected to be staying a week.
Excellent! Excellent! We would have many more
talks before I left. It was almost as good as being
home again. And he went off as jaunty as a school-
boy.
I had contributed, I suppose, about two" hundred
words to the conversation.
In the light of the newly-arrived moon we
watched him being led down the hill, as erect as
ever. It was conjectural whether his poor, frail old
figure would have survived a trip to New Orleans,
much less a voyage across the Pacific.
“I’m glad you turned up,” said McGarrity. “I
like to see the old chap happy. He used to talk that
line to Us once till he guessed that he was boring us
stiff and became a bit sensitive about it. Sometimes,
of course, he can’t hold it in and breaks out like
he did to-night. And, of course, there’s always the
letter.”
“What is supposed to happen when the letter
arrives?”
“Well, as a matter of fact, it has. Here, have
another drink ; we might as well make a night of it.
It’s a breach of the old boy’s confidence, but as you’re
only a bird of passage I guess it’s not much harm
to tell you all about it. You see, when old Everett
was young in your country he fobbed a bank.”
11.
ORDINARILY Gillespie, the manager, would
not have bothered to check the cash over
the week-end, but he was carrying a lot
more money than his small suburban branch
was accustomed to handle, owing to the new railway
construction works in the neighborhood ; and, besides,
it was the Easter holidays and the week-end was
longer than usual. That was how he discovered the
shortage. Of three thousand pounds that should have
been in the safe, an amount of exactly one thousand
was missing.
Young Everett confessed unreservedly to the
whole thing that afternoon when the bank was closed,
sitting slumped in a chair in the manager’s office.
“But, good heavens, Everett! ” exclaimed the
manager, “how could you possibly have got rid of
a thousand pounds in a week?”
His teller, staring woodenly at the floor, offered
no explanation. He was a thin young man in his
late twenties. He might have pointed out to the
manager that, when it comes to backing a racehorse,
it is more a matter of seconds than weeks.
“Haven’t you anything to say at all?” asked the
manager.
“What difference does it make?” said the younger
man quietly. “I have hated this life and everything
attached to it, so I don’t suppose I’ll find gaol life
much worse. It did look like a chance for freedom.”
“I knew your father, Everett. I’m glad he didn’t
live to see this day.”
The manager walked across to the window and
stood for a time staring out into the street.
“Have you any of the money left?” he asked.
“Less than a hundred.”
“How much exactly?”
“Oh, about seventy-five.”
“Seventy-five,” repeated the manager, still with
his back turned. “It should be enough to get you
out of the country.”
The young man’s head came up with a jerk.
“For the sake of your father’s memory, Everett,”
said Gillespie, turning abruptly, “I am going to give
you a chance. You have four days’ grace. The
shortage will not be discovered until after the holi-
days.”
‘ 1 C VERETT did manage to get away,” revealed
*—' McGarrity. “He spent the next few years
wandering up and down through the South American
republics, where he’d cast up somehow, never seem-
ing to settle down.
“The years, at length, had their assuaging effect
on the fears that moved him on, but in their place he
developed a longing to return to his own country —
a longing that became, in time, almost a physical
part of him.
“Perhaps, more than anything else, it was the
fact that he knew he could never return that was
responsible for the thing taking such complete pos-
session of his mind. Had it been merely a matter of
his passage home it might have been different. He
was already a man of forty-five when he decided that
he must go back ; that he must make enough money
to pay back what he had stolen. Then they would
have no objection to his returning.
“It became an obsession with him. His sight
was failing, but for years he worked and managed to
save where another would barely have existed. Then
came an opportunity for him to put his savings to
work. In Buenos Ayres he became a partner in a
small fruit company, newly-formed, which was to
ply as far north as New Orleans. But as his capital
was small he had also to add his personal activities,
and was sent as the company’s representative to
Placidos.
“That was fifteen years ago. The company
thrived, and looked like becoming a big thing in
these parts until the Government got envious and put
an extra real on bananas, and that was that. When
they had sold everything up and struck a balance the
old chap got eight thousand dollars out of it. But
by this time he was totally blind.
“I had been doing all his correspondence for him
for quite a while, and the day he got word of his
bank balance he told me the whole story, just as I
have told you. He was very excited that day, more
than I had ever known him to be. He told me exactly
what he was going to do with the money. I had
to sit down right there and write a letter to the
managing director of the bank. He had worked out
how much he would need to pay back what he had
taken with bank interest over a period of thirty years
and eight thousand dollars just about covered it. He
would have enough left to get him home.
“That was ten years ago. He still expects a reply
to his letter and still thinks he is going home, and he
still has most of his eight thousand. The interest on
it keeps him above water.”
“But you said there was a reply to the letter.”
“There was, but he never saw it. It came a few
months later and I burnt it. When you come to think
of it, it is only the fact that we are all looking forward
to something that keeps us interested in life. The
old chap will live here and spend a moderately happy
existence while ever he has that letter to expect; and
he’ll expect it till the day he dies.”
“The bank refused his offer?”
“Not exactly. They said they had looked up their
records and it was not a matter of a thousand pounds
that was stolen, but three thousand.”
“Three thousand?”
“Apparently Gillespie had put an extra rub or
two on the shining hour.”


BATSMEN OUT
Biliousness
Sluggisk Liuar
Indigestion
Constipation
Haadackes
lO
0
Rkeumalism
Impure Blood
Heart-burn
id Breatk
0
0
0
0
0
TO'
SUPREME IN EVERY TEST
//
BOWLER
Dr Morses
Indian
Root
Pills.
l 9
r
1 1. V 1 '
//
h
n
\r^
w
CT(T\
=V 5
"V■ «**
s
/
s
/
1,1 , Vi'ifT.
rjK
Clean Bowled by Dir*. Morse
Comstock’s N and B Liniment
For Stiff Joints and Sprains, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago. Invaluable for athletes. If unobtainable locally will be forwarded,
post paid, upon receipt of price—2/6 per bottle. The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, or 6 Farish Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
*r
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
J
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living outside Australia ' 'and ’ New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“ZOO PEOPLE”
ptfP
c o '
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two out’stand-
ing pictures in this collection of S
animal and bird studies beauti- '
fully printed in sepia-tone.
Price 1/6
(Postage 2d. extra)
Obtainable
only
from s\\y
c *
&
f#'
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
s e*V* e
*xtX*
9\
■•'4
, sSc«> V "o'
w yi&i
\,s s
i.\C'
••' of i° 'V^S’^'
ss4^o^°°
# s


df
■
mßm
M ■
%
m
%
■
8M
■
m
m.
m
: /:y.
■ >■<*■
D
i
m
■<
■ .
RADIO
SET
The 1938
WELDON
RADIO
CLOCK
The Weldon Radio Clock
■Modi
Pat. Anpi
J
A ust. 335 J [37.
Gt. Britain 3477 J 137.
j New Zealand 78955137.
I Foreign Pat. pending.
Whether you live in the crowded city areas or in a remote rural district, you owe it to yourself to
inspect the 1938 Weldon range. See for yourself the magnificent cabinet designs and hear for
yourself the glorious tonal qualities. If there is no Weldon dealer in your district, write for full
particulars direct to the manufacturers and distributors, BLOCH & GERBER, LIMITED, with
which is associated Weldon Electric Supply Co., 46-48 York Street, Sydney. Thone: MA6291
(9 lines).
The increasingly popular Weldon Radio
Clock range is EFFICIENT and MODERN
—an article of unquestionable utility and
beauty combining two of the most widely-
used household commodities, an efficient
and reliable radio receiver and an equally
reliable 8-day clock.
Could you imagine anything more useful
and modern?
You will be proud to own and prouder to
demonstrate to your friends a Weldon
Radio Clock.
Weldon Radio Clocks are protected by
patent applications in all principal coun-
tries of the world, and are available in the
following models: —
Mantel Range.
MODEL 2/38A.—For standard Broadcast
programmes. 240 volt A.C. operation.
5 valves. LIST PRICE 17 Gns.
MODEL 2/38D. —For Australian and
Overseas reception. 240 volt A.C. opera-
tion. 5 valves. LIST PRICE, 20 Gns.
MODEL 2/38V . —For Australian recep-
tion. 6-volt accumulator operation (no
Bor C batteries). 5 valves.
LIST PRICE 25 Gns.
Grandfather Clock Range.
MODEL 2/38G. — (Same description as
2/38A. LIST PRICE 25 Gns.
MODEL 2/38DG —(Same description as
2/38D.) LIST PRICE 28 Gns.
MODEL 2/38VG —(Same description as
2/38V.) LIST PRICE 31 Gns.
Here are five other popular members of
the Weldon 1938 range.
These models are housed in the conven-
tional console-t} pe cabinets.
Each model is a leader of its class. Cabinet
design is strikingly beautiful and modern.
Technically they embody all the latest
achievements of radio science.
Australasian Reception.
MODEL 3/38. —5 valve, 240 volt, A.C.
operation. LIST PRICE 17 Gns.
MODEL 4/38. —5 valve, 240 volt, A.C.
operation. LIST PRICE 19 Gns.
Australasian and Overseas
Reception.
MODEL 3/38D. —3 valve, 240 volt, A.C.
operation. LIST PRICE 18 Gns.
MODEL 4/38D. —5 valve, 240 volt, A.C.
operation. LIST PRICE 21 Gns.
MODEL 5/38D. —5 valve, 240 volt, A.C.
operation, with exclusive automatic tele-
phone type dial. LIST PRICE, 25 Gns.
In addition to Weldon Radio, BLOCH 6c GERBER, LTD.
(which is the largest radio and electrical wholesale warehouse in
Australia), carry comprehensive stocks of all other radio and
electrical lines, including:—
ELECTRIC REFRIGERATORS (SEVERAL
BEST KNOWN MAKES)
WASHING MACHINES (AUSTRALIAN
AND CANADIAN)
VACUUM
CLEANERS
WELDON IRONS
WELDON JUGS
WELDON
TOASTERS
LAMPS
VALVES
FLEXIBLES
WIRES
RADIO
ACCESSORIES ACCESSORY
DEALERS! We guarantee to give better prices,
the best parts and the speediest and most
courteous service in Australia.
WELDON BICYCLES
IMMERSION
HEATERS
BATTERY CLOCKS
RADIATORS
LIGHTING
FIXTURES
BATTERIES
ELECTRIC CLOCKS
CABLES
ELECTRICAL
WRITE FOR COMPREHENSIVE CATALOGUE.
\gencies are still available in districts where we are not already represented.
WELDON RADIO, DESIGNED, MANUFACTURED AND DISTRIBUTED BY
BLOCH & GERBER Ltd.
With which is associated Weldon Electric Supply Co.,
46-48 York Street, SYDNEY. ’Phone: MA6291 (9 lines).
Wholesale distributors for Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. L. Buckland Pty., Ltd., 139-141 Franklin Street, Melbourne, C.tj
ALSO AT LAUNCESTON AND HOBART. M
