

/ ////AX///M
/
SIIJLIAIijW
M
V
V
I
&
A.
w
Va
/
7,
asm
m
M.
%
Ay^xxxA
/
x
m
y/ZrSA
¥xX.
Vj.
X
X
7
'A
X,
x
m
y
X
y
X
x
X
x
x
yy
X
y.
x
XX
yf
x
m
X
XX
X'Xs
y
XX
AxL
X
7?'
y
XX
:x
x
y.
X
'//
xx
w,
X
S
/
m
Wx
7/
/
)k
ft
y.
ss
x
m
v*
m
m
%y
X
*y
X
XX
XX
XA
m
XX,
4*
&
V
/
M
x
5h
xz
Beam Wireless Service
Wireless Telephone Service
Wireless Service to Ships
New Guinea Wireless Service
Fiji Wireless Service
Broadcasting Services
Aircraft Services
Picturegram Services
Wireless Manufacture
Wireless Research
Broadcasting Stations
The Fisk Radiola
/ N \ / I
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3051.
Wednesday, August 3, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
£lOOO
COMPETITIONS
The new Competitions for “Bulletin”
readers described in detail on this
page are: —
£lOO Short Story Competition
First Prize .. .. £7O
Second Prize £l5
Third Prize £lO
Brief Story (1500 words) . . £5
£lOO "Other Fellow's Mind"
Competitions
Weekly prizes of £3 3s. each;
bonuses of £lO each; payment for
all published entries.
£5O (eachl Limerick and
Other Competitions
First Prize (every Competition) £4O
Ten others (every Competition) £1 each
On those and other competitions
“The Bulletin” is splitting up £lOOO.
No entrance charge whatever is being
made for any of these competitions.
In addition to the foregoing the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize for Literature, which is a
permanent award, entirely separate and
distinct from these new current competi-
tions, is also dealt with in detail on this
page, some important new particulars
being given.
The Red Page
“BULLETIN'S ” £1000 COMPETITIONS.
Set out* in a page advertisement elsewhere in this
issue are particulars of various Bulletin competitions
with prize-money totalling £lOOO to be won during
approximately the next six months.
There are a Short Story Competition with first
prize of £7O ; an “Other Fellow’s Mind” Competition,
with a prize of £3 3s. weekly, plus £lO bonuses for
the best entry each three months ; and a number of
Popular Competitions, including, to begin with, a
Limerick Competition in which competitors will add
the final line for a first prize of £4O and 10 other
prizes of £1 each—£so in all for each of these Limerick
Competitions, and the same amount to be allotted
for each of the other subsequent Popular Competi-
tions.
£lOO Short Story Competition
The £lOOO now offered for other competitions is
entirely separate from the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize.
These are new, additional competitions.
The Short Story Competition has £lOO allotted
to it: First prize, £7O; second prize, £l5; third
prize, £lO, with a £5 prize for the best brief story.
This competition will be conducted similarly to the
other successful short-story competitions held over the
past two or three years. Entries may be sent in from
now to the end of January next.
They will be read as received ; those considered
suitable for publication in The Bulletin will be paid
for at once at The Bulletin’s high short-story rates,
and either published from week to week or held for
subsequent publication. This payment will be made
in the ordinary way, according to length and quality
of the stories accepted.
The four Story Competition prizes will be quite
separate awards, and no deduction will be made from
them. These prizes will be paid as soon as judging
can be completed after the competition closes on
January 31 —perhaps within a month of that date;
certainly within two months.
Every story entered will have an equal chance
of winning, no matter whether it is sent in now or any
time prior to the closing date. A writer can send in
any number of entries he wishes, those considered
suitable being paid for as accepted, and all of suffi-
cient merit, whether published before the competition
closes or not, will come up for the final judgment on
quality.
Stories entered will not be held till the end of
the competition, as was done in past competitions.
Elimination reading by the judges will go on from
the time the first entries are received, and all MSS.
which have no chance of winning a prize and are not
suitable for publication will, if accompanied by
stamps, be returned from week to week as the judges
decide upon them.
Stories should not exceed 6000 words in length,
though this limit will not be so strictly enforced as
to rule out a story of great quality which happens to
be a bit longer. On the other hand, stories may be as
short as writers care to have them ; certainly mere
padding will not win this competition. Further details
may be had by forwarding a stamped addressed
envelope to the Secretary, £lOO Short Story Com-
petition, Bulletin Office, George-street, Sydney.
“Other Fellow’s Mind” Competitions
For the “Other Fellow’s Mind” Competitions the
total prize-money allotted is £lOl 18s. The “Other
Fellow’s Mind” page will be a regular feature of The
Bulletin during the currency of these competitions,
which will extend over six months.
Hitherto “Other Fellow’s Mind” has been an
irregular Bulletin feature, but it has appeared often
enough to be familiar to most readers. It is simply
a section of The Bulletin set aside as a platform
from which readers- can get off their chests anything
they happen to feel strongly about. A point worth
keeping in mind is that The Bulletin is a national,
not a State, paper. It is read throughout Australia,
Maoriland, the Pacific Islands and elsewhere, and
it aims to be as interesting to the man at the
Back o’ Bourke or in, say, Papua as it is to the
dweller in Melbourne, Sydney, Auckland or any other
city. Therefore the reader who has something prac-
tical to say not about parochial matters but about
matters of widespread and general interest is going to
have the best chance of carrying off the weekly
£3 3s. prize.
In addition to the £3 3s. prize each week there
will be a special bonus of £lO for the best entry pub-
lished in the first three months, and similarly for the
second three months. , In addition every published
entry will be paid for at space rates. Thus each
week’s winner will get the £3 3s. prize, plus the space-
rate payment, space rates being also paid for all the
other published entries each week.
Literary craftsmanship does not count in “Other
Fellow’s Mind” Competitions. The only thing that
counts is that the one sending in an entry really has
something to say—-something practical, informative
and generally interesting.
If you have something to say, say it as best you
can —which really means as simply as you can—and
send it in. What you have to say need not agree with
Bulletin policy. It is the other fellows’ minds that
these competitions seek to have expressing them-
selves ; whether those minds are in agreement with The
V /
Bulletin or not, either on the matters being dis-
cussed or on any other matters, will nob; influence
publication or prize awards a jot.
Entries for these competitions should be sent in
from now onwards. To give readers in distant parts
an equal chance with those closer in, the first selected
batch of “Other Fellow’s Mind” entries will not be
published till a fortnight from this date. From then
onwards “Other Fellow’s Mind” will appear weekly,
made up of readers’ opinions on any matters whatever
—indecency, attacks on religion and personal attacks,
of course, excepted.
No entry should exceed 500 words and no
Bulletin reader will be barred from expressing worth-
while opinions or ideas within that limit. If you feel
that your literary style may be a bit rough, leave the
fixing of punctuation and the like to the “Other
Fellow’s Mind” sub-editor —that’s his job.
£5O Each for Popular Competitions
The Popular Competitions, of which there will
probably be several, will have the balance of the
£lOOO split up among them.
The first of these to be announced is the Limerick
Competition, in which all that is required is a snappy
(publishable) last line for each truncated limerick given.
The first Limerick Competition begins in The
Bulletin of August 17.
To meet dwellers in distant parts, these competi-
tions will appear fortnightly, which should allow all
Bulletin readers not resident outside Australia and
Maoriland to compete.
To begin with, each Limerick Competition will
have a first prize of £4O and 10 other prizes of £1
each.
Readers are not being asked to contribute at all
towards the cost of any of these competitions. Entry
is absolutely free.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
Pty., Ltd., is eligible to compete in any of the fore-
going new competitions.
The S. H. Prior Prize
The Bulletin hopes that this allotment of £lOOO
for competitions to be won by its readers will offset
the disappointment that may arise from there being
again this year no award made of the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize.
This paper is as disappointed as anyone can be
with that result, but it cannot help it. The entries for
the Prior Prize, totalling 161 MSS., were carefully read
by competent judges. The main reading was done by
Frank Dalby Davison (holder of the Australian Litera-
ture, Society Medal, keen literary critic and present
novel reviewer for the Red Page) and W. E. Fitz
Henry (joint editor of the Australian Writers and
Artists’ Year Book and an experienced judge of literary
competitions).
These readers’ gleanings were read by The Bul-
letin's editorial staff, and each and every one of all
these readers declared that no MS. examined by him
reached the high literary standard which was fixed,
not arbitrarily by any of these judges, but by Aus-
tralian writers themselves—that is, by the winners of
the Prior Prize in the two years it was awarded.
As for the prize-money, it simply banks up, and
is there to be duly won by an MS. on which good
judges can agree that it is a positive contribution to
Australian literature. The judges in the first year
of the award shared that opinion of Kylie Tennant’s
Tiburon and in the second year of Miles Franklin’s
All That Swagger. Then, last year, the judges reported
that no entry was worthy of the prize, and, in accord-
ance with the conditions governing the award, the
£lOO for that year was added to this present year’s
prize-money.
Now the same disappointing result has to be
announced. There will be no S. H. Prior Memorial
Prize awarded for the competition which closed on
June 6 last.
That leaves £2OO not awarded, and this sum now
automatically adds on to the annual £lOO allotted.
So that, for the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize competition,
closing on June 6 next year, the prize will be £3OO.
There can be no division of the award ( therefore, pro-
vided only that there is an MS. entered which the
judges consider to be a positive contribution to Aus-
tralian literature, the £3OO will be forthwith awarded
to the writer of that MS.
It may bear repeating here that that award is
something entirely apart from any other remuneration
that may be earned by the MS. It is a separate prize.
If the MS. is suitable for the purpose, The Bulletin
will pay additionally for the serial rights. Book,
dramatic, cinema and radio rights will belong to the
author, to be exploited at his own free will without
any hindrance of any kind from this paper. That is
probably already clearly understood by Australian,
Maoriland and other writers eligible to compete, but
The Bulletin wishes to be absolutely clear about it.
It is felt, moreover, that perhaps some writers
who would have excellent prospects of carrying off
the prize may have declined to enter their work lest
doing so might in some way interfere with their exist-
ing publishing arrangements. So that that can be in
no way an obstacle, the trustees of the Prior Prize
have agreed that one clause hitherto governing book
publication of the winner shall be struck out of the
conditions. Henceforth the author will be free Mo
have the book published by any firm he prefers.
To give an example: if an author has his own
book-publishing arrangements with, say, Angus and
Robertson, or any other publishing house either in
Australia or abroad, he will be completely free to
make arrangements for publication by that firm of his
competition MS. So that there may be no hindrance
of any kind to this, The Bulletin Co. will not hence-
forth publish the prize-winner or any other entry in
book form.
In short, the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize will be
awarded annually when an entry in (he competition
is deemed to merit it, and The Bulletin will require
first Australian serial rights of the winner at a price
to be settled with the author, but will require no
other rights whatever, the winner, along, with all other
competitors, being left wholly free to dispose of book
and all other rights elsewhere.
This the trustees believe to be a thoroughly fair
and generous proposal, but will welcome suggestions
from readers along the lines of making the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize what the trustees wish it to be —a
practical encouragement for Australian writers
“Australian” being, of course, here used to include
writers born or naturalised in Australia, New Zealand
or the South Pacific Islands (no matter where now
resident) or bona-fide residents of any of these places
for the two years preceding the closing date of each
Prior Prize competition.
It has been further decided by the trustees of
the Prior Prize that the award for the current com-
petition, closing June 6 next year, shall be for any
prose work deemed to be a positive contribution to
Australian literature. That is, the competition will
not be restricted to novels, but will be open to prose
writings of any kind whatever —fiction, biography,
autobiography, travel, history, and so on. Any
further particulars concerning this £3OO S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize award may be had by forwarding a
stamped addressed envelope to the Secretary, S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize, Bulletin Office, George-street,
Sydney.
A New Abo. Book.
Keith McKeown’s The Land of Byamee (Angus
and Robertson) is a collection of aboriginal legends
interleaved with natural history notes on the animals
dealt with in the stories.
He quotes, for instance, a newspaper cutting in
which W. R. Rudd tells how he was passing through
the country at the headwaters of the Archer River, 40
miles north of Coen, and, coming at sundown to good
grass near a chain of lagoons, decided to make camp.
He told his black boy to hobble the horses and the
boy answered, “Orright, boss. I hobble him first
time frog make ’em corroboree.”
This led to the boy telling Rudd how, in the
mythical past, when the “Old People walked about,’
the lagoons were infested with snakes that preyed on
the little green-and-silver tree frogs. The frogs sought
the aid of the Old People, and these arranged that
the snakes thereafter were to live in the ridges on
each side of the lagoon. The frogs were to climb into
the paperbark trees at dusk and the snakes were to
come in to drink only after dark. This arrangement
made the frogs so happy that every evening since then
they have “sung” their thanksgiving as soon as they
have climbed to their places of safety. Rudd records
that the frogs’ chorus took place. It lasted about 10
minutes and ended abruptly.
The other legends in the book are equally pleas-
ing. Some are poetic, some have a vein of humor
running through them, others are dramatic. There
are short tales obviously designed as explanations of
the mysterious ways of nature, such as the snake-and-
tree-frog story ; and others, such as how the koala
stole the people’s water-vessels in drought time as
punishment for their cruelties, in which there are
glimmerings of primitive morality. Then there are
tales in which it is clear that fancy has been given
free rein in the weaving of a tale for sheer entertain-
ment.
In Spider Wonders of Australia and Insect
Wonders of Australia McKeown wrote books of the
kind that help to make the white race at home in a
continent it is really only beginning to understand and
o Continued on page 8.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
m
FAMOUS LOW
‘THE SENIOR STORE:
PRICES
WATCH YOUR WEIGHT
DAILY! .
a
ALUMINIUM
DOUBLE
SAUCEPANS,
11/9
You can cook custards, sauces, and all milk foods without
fear of their burning once you start using a double
saucepan. These are in aluminium, with the new cool
handles.
Sizes, Pints 2 3 4
Anthony Horderns’ Price . . 11/9 12/9 14/11
>fc
3
IP
a
i
i
*
W
Set of 5
Saucepans,
35/6
This very handsome set of saucepans is in heavy quality
aluminium, highly polished and with a cut edge. Special
features housewives will appreciate are the cool moulded
handles and the cool grip-on lid. The wide range of
useful sizes is as follows: I|, 2,3, 5, and 7 pints.
Anthony Horderns’Price 35/6
V
These Aluminium Fry Pans are
fitted with the new hygienic covers
and cool moulded grip handles.
They are specially recommended
for their splendid service.
Sizes, inches
Anthony Horderns’ Price ....
ALUMINIUM
FRY PANS,
6/6
8
6/6
9 10
7/6 8/6
# Kitchenware-
Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Delivered free
only within delivery area.
m
«
m
n.
27 IB
■
m
' Capacity:
18 stone X 7/ft
Second
• THE
BORG
AUTOMATIC j
BATHROOM 1
SCALE
•ACCURATE
•PORTABLE
•COMPACT
Carefully constructed in attractive modern design,
this compact personal weighing scale is specially
built for homes and Hats where floor space is at a
premium. It is extremely light in weight and
perfectly accurate. The “Borg” Scale is handsomely
finished in Ivory or Blue Enamel. With coloured
rubber top. Obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’.
Special Price 27/6


A Prizewinner in the Australian Anniversary Competitions
THE Wild
Swans
BY COLIN WILLS
DRAWINGS BY
JOHN MILLS.
THE red had almost gone from the sky when he
came to the boundary fence. The tall grass,
yellow as wheat in daylight, turned to a shim-
mering grey, and seemed hardly to be there
at all. The horse stopped, stretched down his head
and snorted. Seaton sat still a moment, regarding
the dim sliprails, shadowy bars which seemed to
flicker in the dusk. He dropped the reins, swung
down and walked to the rails. The rough wood felt
cool to his sweaty hands. He lifted one foot to the
bottom rail and stood leaning there.
Out of sight beyond a clump of trees was Bin-
stead’s house. He would see the lighted window as
soon as he passed the bend, and perhaps would see
the woman’s shape between him and the lamp. She
would be getting tea for Binstead and Bill Andrews,
Binstead’s boy.
Warmth spread over him. He thought of the
way he would feel when he passed the bend and saw
her there at the window, her waist sharply outlined
and her arms moving things on the fable or at the
stove. It was almost better to see her like that than
to ride up to the house, go in and see her close.
When he saw her from the bend in the track, pulling
up his horse, sitting back, watching through the
slowly-waving branches, she belonged to him. In the
kitchen, seen close, with the light on her skin and
her eyes, her red lips smiling, talking, her round arms
on the table, busy with darning, then she was Bin-
stead’s wife, and not to be his for a long time.
He gripped the top rail. It was time he thought
of putting a gate there and a new fence with netting
if he was going to run sheep in the top paddock. He
would speak to Binstead about the cost of netting ;
he’d have to pay his share. He imagined the look
that would come into Binstead’s face ; the instant,
obliging smile of the big-toothed mouth half-
shadowed by the reddish moustache, the cunning try-
ing to hide itself behind the blue eyes. Seaton
laughed.
The horse, which had approached slowly, nuzzled
him impatiently. He turned and slapped its neck,
then suddenly flung down the rails, sent the horse
through, and slammed the rails home. Mounting, he
kicked the sinewy flanks, clicked his tongue and can-
tered to the bend. The yellow square of the window
sprang out of the night, but, though he waited, no
shape moved across it. He shook the reins and the
horse moved on.
'“T HEY had finished their meal. The woman poured
I herself a last half-cupful of tea. It was too strong
and not hot enough, but it was an excuse for a moment
more of rest before work began again. She circled
her spoon slowly in the half-filled cup.
The man had pushed back his chair and sat fill-
ing his pipe, resting luxuriously ; work was over and
his belly was filled. The youth leaned his elbows on
the table, playing with crumbs of bread, furtively
watching the butter and honey that would soon dis-
appear into the safe. He had not had quite enough
to eat. He never had. He had had as much as Bin-
stead, perhaps a slice more, but he needed more than
the man to satisfy him. At the thought of the cold
corned mutton that was gone his throat contracted
with longing. If he could have just one more helping,
he thought, he’d be right.
Binstead put away his tobacco pouch, struck a
wax match on his chair, lit his pipe. “There’s a horse,”
he said.
They listened, heard the trotting hoofs. The
woman took the butter and honey and crossed to the
verandah, where the big safe was.
“Seaton,” Binstead said. “Make some more tea,
Rhoda.”
“What does he want?” she asked, coming back
into the room.
He did not answer. He never answered foolish
questions. Seaton rode over every now and then.
Why not? They were neighbors, and the man must
be lonely on his own.
“Says he’s going to put sheep in the top pad-
dock,” Bill Andrews said. He was leaning back
against the slab wall, rolling a cigarette.
“Don’t tilt the chairs, Bill,” the woman said.
Bill’s feet came back to the floor. He hoped he
wouldn’t have to dry the dishes in front of Seaton.
He didn’t mind other nights, but a man felt a goat in
front of another man.
“Been saying that for a year,” said Binstead con-
temptuously ; “ever since we came here.”
“He’s going to put another hundred acres under
wheat,” Bill said. “Down the creek flat. Going to
get a bloke to work for him.”
“Been saying that ever since the Irish boy left,”
said Binstead. “Five months ago.”
Rhoda looked from the window and saw Seaton
dismounting at the stable. When he stepped on to
the verandah, the table was cleared and the blue-and-
yellow fringed cloth spread.
AT first they all talked, keeping the silence out, the
warm air never free from the stir of one voice
or two. Gradually the woman spoke less, the boy not
at all. Silence crept back between the men’s words,
stayed longer, settled in the room, driven back to the
darkness only now and then. The two men sat un-
moving on each side of the table, inert masses, smoke
rising from them as from two burning trees.
Seaton thought of the woman continually, yet he
made no sign. He did not look at her covertly, and
did not avoid looking at her when it was natural to ;
his eyes were easy and calm. For nearly a year now,
since last autumn, he had desired her, had known
that she must belong to him. And never in that time
had he given a sign that even the woman might see.
At first he had not known what to do. One night
in the winter he had come there and found her alone.
He had lost his horse in the creek ; a wild chestnut
mare, it had slipped on the rolling pebbles and fallen
with him, struggled up, broken the bridle and bolted
across the splashing grass to the scrub. He had come
up to the house, soaked through and limping, carry-
ing the broken bridle. Somehow he guessed as he
came up that Binstead and the boy were away. He
wondered if he had guessed it before he left home.
“What am I doing?” he muttered, “I can’t do this.
But he knew she belonged to him.
Binstead and the boy were away in the bottom
paddock, clearing away logs and trees that threatened
to break the dam. The woman made him come in
to the fire, made tea for him, wanted him to rub
arnica on his twisted knee.
He would not change ; his clothes steamed dry
on his body. His skin tingled with the heat. This
woman, so calm, stirring her tea in the kitchen, with
the grey bush winter sobbing outside the window . . .
she was more beautiful to him, more desirable, than
any other woman. She must belong to him.
“I will stand up,” he thought clearly, even imagin-
ing the pain it would give his knee and the way the
damp shirt would chill his
back; “I will go over and
lift her arms to my neck,
and put my arm round her
waist. Her eyes will be wide
and startled. I will kiss her,
that red, soft mouth, and
clasp her, take her for mine.”
But he sat there know-
ing that, even if she wanted
him, she would not yield like
that, giving no sign ; and Bin-
stead had come home, wet
and tired and placid.
The rains had ended, the
creek had fallen. Spring had
spread green herbage over the
flats; the grass had grown, had yellowed with the
summer. The season of long, hot days was almost
over. It would soon be autumn again, and Seaton
had given no sign. He was strong, he was patient.
This woman belonged to him.
Bill Andrews had gone to bed an hour ago. It
was ten o’clock, and Seaton was going.
“Stop a bit longer, Seaton,” Binstead said ; I
want to go down to the corner and close the rails, or
the horse will be out when I want him in the morning.
I ought to make Bill go ; he left them down.”
Seaton laughed and sat down. Binstead’s boots
tramped on the verandah, padded softly away on the
track. Silence came eddying back. It was moonlight
now, and the scrub across on the hill stood black
beyond the silver of the grass. Seaton remembered
the night when his mare had galloped up there, and
how he had cursed —and been glad. “I will sit here,
not moving, not getting excited, and tell her, he
thought. “I will tell her the story from a year ago,
when it began. I will tell her about that night, and
about all these I have sat here and waited. I will
make her see she belongs to me.”
The woman looked up at him and a long, calm
gaze of wisdom passed between them. He knew that
he need not tell her. The woman belonged to him.
AFTER that, there was only Binstead to worry
about. Seaton smiled as he went about his prop-
erty, moving his sheep, ploughing his land, cutting
cypress-pine on the ridge for fenceposts. He laughed
as he split the fenceposts. Beside the riddle of the
woman, which was solved, the problem of the man
was a trivial thing. He could wait another year now
if he had to, knowing that only the stolid man with
the simple, cunning eyes stood in his way. But he
need not wait; he might end it any time now.
He grinned at Binstead as they dug the post-
holes, grinned at the thought that Binstead was pay-
ing half the cost of the fence. He drove the crowbar
deep, cutting away the clay. Bill Andrews shovelled
out the loose dirt, carefully trimming the holes. Bin-
stead put in the posts and sighted along them, keep-
ing the line true.
“I’ll go up to him,” Seaton thought, “when Bill’s
away getting the billy of tea. I’ll tell him I love his
wife, and dare him to fight for her. I’ll smash in his
ugly teeth and blacken his pink eye-sockets. I’ll knock
his head off. How he’ll look when I start to tell him!
He’ll grin for a second, not knowing what’s coming.
Then he’ll shut his mouth and his eyes will go cun-
ning.”
But he went on digging, driving the crowbar
down. He wasn’t going to be made a fool of by Bin-
stead. He could wait. The man might refuse to
fight, might laugh at him, tell him his wife wouldn’t
waste her time with a fellow like him. Better to wait.
For that matter, they could go away, he thought. He
could sell his place the next day, if he liked, and get a
good price for it. They could go away on some boat,
down the islands, under the sun and the stars, caring
nothing for anyone.
Bill came back with the tea, and they sat in the.
shade eating their sandwiches. It was winter, but
the sun was hot at midday. Seaton thought of the
sound of surf on a reef, the rustle of palm-leaves.
When they got tired of it they could come back, get a
property somewhere and settle down. Garden all
round the house, with a tank on a tower, water
pumped up from the dam. Flowers all the time in


the house ; she liked flowers. And he’d have a piano
for her; she’d love a piano. Fancy her married to
a thing like Binstead! Sitting there like a lump of
meat, not even looking at her, smoking his pipe and
belching.
He began to hate Binstead.
O EATON worked harder that winter than he ever
had. His stock and his land, his fences and sheds
and machinery were like exhibits at an agricultural
show. He was up in the icy mornings at four o’clock,
and all day long he scarcely rested a minute, until
long after dark.
He didn’t go over to Binstead’s nearly so often ;
he knew that Rhoda knew. When he did go, they
were both playing his game ; carefully being natural,
talking to one another, looking at one another, with
never a sign. Nobody, least of all Binstead, could
have suspected the slightest interest in either.
And yet the thing had a strange effect on Bin-
stead ; must have cut off some current that had kept
up his confidence. He sighed with weariness in the
evenings, fidgeted, couldn’t get his pipe to draw
satisfactorily. Often he wanted to go to bed early,
and when he did Seaton was off in a minute. . Then
he would be sorry Seaton had gone ; he suddenly
wanted to talk, and would lie awake for hours, telling
Rhoda how everything went wrong ; what a bad time
he had had on the land, how luck was always against
him.
Then in the dawn he would wake, weary and
jaded, leap out of bed and haul Bill out of his. For
an hour or two he would bustle about in an effort to
get something done. Then as the day warmed up he
would grow listless, disheartened. What was the good
of slaving your guts out, he thought; you got nothing
for it. Might as well let it go. He would send Bill
out down the paddock on some job, and then sprawl
out on the floor of the harness-room, smoking and
drowsing, troubled all the time by a sense of guilty
laziness.
He began to look bad, pasty and even a little
thin, and complained that he couldn’t sleep. He
limped about the yard with a drawn face, whining
continually in an irritable monotone. He pottered,
filled in his time with senseless little jobs while the
real work of the place was neglected. Bill tried to do
it alone, but was soon bewildered, and finally became
as shiftless as Binstead.
Seaton, meanwhile, as though drawing fresh
strength from his declining enemy, toiled day and
night and throve on it. Whenever he came over he
was brisk and hearty, whistling, joking and laughing.
He had always some new victory to boast of; he had
put on two men, bought a new separator and a disk
plough, built a new shed, raised a crop of lucerne down
by the creek, sold a thousand sheep at a top price . . .
Rhoda watched for him every day. From that
night over a year ago when he had dried himself by
her fire she had known that he wanted her. She had
been rather afraid of him then ; she was not happy,
but she was patient, life was tolerable. She did not
want to be caught in a violent storm that would hurl
everything into chaos and then subside, leaving only
wreckage. But a long time had passed ; many even-
ings she had watched him, listened to his voice, pene-
trated his secret mind while she sat silent, knitting
or mending her husband’s clothes.
This man who loved her, yet who could sit, even-
ing after evening, giving no sign at all . . . No man
ever before had so desired her; no man surely had
ing her cheek, looking at the far bank of the creek,
where Seaton’s sheep moved slowly through the grass.
“Oh, Tom, ride over and take me,” she whis-
pered into the warm air. “We have waited long
enough. I need you, Tom.”
When she ceased whispering silence returned,
and only the wings of the wild swans broke it again.
Rhoda’s hands, faded and worn, slim-fingered, slid out
over the peeling window-sill, stretching into empti-
ness.
THAT afternoon a dray came clanking out of the
silence, rumbled across the dry creek-bed and
pulled up in the yard. Seaton had brought a load
of timber.
“Thought this stuff might be handy for that well
of yours,” he told Binstead. “You told me the plank-
ing wanted renewing. This came out of my old shed ;
it’s no use to me, but it’s solid enough.”
Binstead shuffled round to the back of the dray.
He hadn’t shaved for days, and under the gingery
stubble his face looked grey. His blue eyes bulged
a little as he lifted one of the planks and examined it.
“Think they’d be strong enough?” he asked.
Seaton frowned.
“Plenty,” he said. “That’s good hardwood.”
He backed the dray down to the side of the old
well and they unloaded the timber. Binstead groaned
all the time, and when it was donejhe slumped down
on the corner of the well and wiped his face feebly.
“This work’ll kill a man,” he grumbled.
Seaton didn’t answer.
“It’s going to be a hell of a job putting new
planks in there,” Binstead said, glowering at the
rotten woodwork. “Dangerous, too ; a man might
go through anywhere, and she’s twenty feet deep.”
He stood up and stepped on to the planking.
“A man’d want to be careful,” he said, and
walked out to the centre, where the crazy old wind-
lass leaned.
Seaton followed him, keeping along one of the
heavy beams. Together they stared into the black-
ness. A chip fell away from the edge and splashed
softly. There was a momentary glimmer of light from
the water below.
Binstead was standing carelessly on a thin old
plank. Seaton could see that it had broken away
from the nails that held it to the beam; it rested on
a ragged, rotten edge. He seemed to be looking at
the well with Binstead gone, with a jagged gap in the
planking, listening to a faint disturbance below in
the water. He saw the islands again, under the sun
and the stars, with Rhoda and himself alone together.
Then he thought of the homestead with the high
tank and flowers all the year round. The woman
belonged to him.
“I could just push him,” he thought, “just touch
him almost. The plank would go in a second. No
one could know.” A cry sounded far off. He looked
up. Three swans were flying swiftly across towards
the west. In a few seconds they would pass from
sight behind the shed. He could not lower his eyes
from them.
“When they’re out of sight,” he thought, “I’ll do
it. I’ll wait just that long, then I’ll do it.”
The first swan passed out of sight beyond the
shed. Binstead cleared his throat and spat on the
planking. The other two swans disappeared. Seaton
held his breath. Now was the time. A
A faint cry sounded, and another swan, appear-
ing from nowhere, came flying after the others.
Seaton turned and walked back along the beam.
As he drove past the kitchen window, Rhoda
called to him. He could not hear her for the clank-
ing of the dray. He pulled up.
“Won’t you have a cup of tea?”
“Not now, thanks. I’m in a hurry.” He looked
at her, not calmly as usual.
COR a month he did not come. All that time the
* timber lay by the well. Every day Binstead
would shuffle over to it, lift up a plank, examine it
critically and drop it. Then he would walk out on to
the well and look at the water.
“If only I wasn’t so sick,” he said, “I’d fix that
in no time. But I’m not too sure about that timber
of Seaton’s.”
Young Bill Andrews was beginning to swagger.
He hardly listened to anything Binstead said, but
cantered off each morning to run the place as he
thought it should be run —moving the stock fre-
quently, puddling about in the creek making a new
dam, doing little else. At meals he ate all he wanted,
rolled cigarettes at the table, spilling tobacco, and
tilted his chair back against the wall to smoke in ease
while Rhoda dried the dishes. Binstead ate little, but
dosed himself with medicine. After dinner he shuffled
about restlessly, coughing and groaning.
One afternoon Binstead stumbled out of the
harness-room, befuddled and sour. He glowered at
the pile of timber, spat on the ground and shuffled
towards the well. A man ought to fix that planking,
he thought; it was dangerous. But what the hell did
it matter, anyway? A man was always in danger
more or less; if he didn’t fall down a well he got sick
and died . . .
“God, I feel weak,” he thought. “I’m getting old.
I’m a sick man, and no one to look after me. Rhoda
thinks I’m swinging the lead, I reckon.” He stepped
on to the planking, walked across to the well, and
leaned on the windlass. It might go any time, he
thought.
Thinking that, he experienced a slight fear, a fear
without power to stir him. His mind did not shrink,
but contemplated the prospect of death with detach-
ment ; even with an objective interest. Here was a
man, he thought, standing on rotten planking over a
deep well. The planking might give way, and if it did
he would certainly drown. The man could end the
danger by stepping on to a beam, but he remained
where he was, looking into the water. Subconsciously,
he realised that the man he was watching, himself,
was afraid to step on to the beam ; afraid to give
himself back into the power of life, of which he was
afraid.
He shuddered as the clammy smell of the water
crept into his nostrils. “I’d better stand on the beam,”
he thought; “I can hear the planks creaking.” But he
remained there, as though desiring to perpetuate that
moment of time, to create an eternity of his own,
wherein to dwell inert and isolated upon this private
world of the well-cover.
There was a convulsion under his feet, and he
felt himself falling. His hands tore at the windlass ;
it toppled over and struck his head as he fell. Crash-
ing against the stonework, he hurtled into the dark.
D HODA’S sister Nancy came out from the city
I 'to stay with her; a thin, dark, nervous woman
who had always disliked Binstead and loathed the
Tears wet her cheeks; her slim hands clutched
desperately at the grass. Bitterly, uncontrollably she
wept for the man she had loved.
ever loved any woman with such terrific strength and
silence. Long before that moonlight night when she
looked up into his eyes she had known that she
loved him, and that night she had told him.
But now it was spring and time their love should
bieak out or the groijnd. The wild swans every day
flew overhead ; she could hear the beat of their wings
and their stiange, remote cries. She leaned against
the window-frame, the dry and cracking wood scrap-


country. She wanted Rhoda to come back with her
at once. Rhoda said she would wait a little while.
A little while longer was nothing after nearly two
years. Seaton had been over several times to see if
there was anything he could do, but had never stayed.
A week after it happened he came in the evening.
The two women and Bill were in the drawing-room,
which had not been sat in for years except when
visitors came —and that was rarely. They talked of
the town and the country and selling the place, and
Bill Andrews, wearing a collar and tie and looking
almost mature, talked of the job he was going to on
a big station up north.
Later, when the silence had crept in, Rhoda
asked Seaton to come out and see her garden. “I
hate to leave it,” she said.
“I would like to make a garden,” Seaton said,
“with a high tank on a tower, so you could hose it.
I could pump the water up from the dam to the
tank, and there’d always be a good pressure.”
“Why don’t you?” Rhoda asked.
“I will,” he said, “if you want it.”
He stepped close to her, so that the moon threw
his shadow over her face, leaving only her forehead
white as the white roses, and a glint of light in her
eyes.
“You belong to me!” he said loudly, and for the
first time she heard his voice tremble. “You have
ever since I met you. You’re my woman by rights,
Rhoda ; you were never his.”
“I know, I know.” Something soft and cool
was against his cheek —her hand, pressing his hot skin.
She laughed. “You needn’t be upset, Tom. Did you
think I didn’t know? Did you think I haven’t seen
all along the way you felt, and how strong you are?”
Then he laughed, too. So it was all right. He
grabbed her arms, swept her off the ground, kissed
her wildly and sought her mouth again.
He released her, so that her head sank back and
the moonlight showed her face. It was like a face
that had been locked in ice, suddenly set free and
warmed to life. He saw contours in her cheeks, a
tremor about her mouth, that he had not seen before.
She was beautiful, this woman of his,
“Are you going back with your sister to stay?”
he asked.
She wanted to say no, that she would never leave
him now, that he must take her with him and go
away. But she said, “Yes, I had better go with her.”
“How long? How long before you’ll marry me?”
“Oh, Tom. Six months, I suppose. If you still
feel the same.”
“Haven’t I felt the same for two years?”
“Yes,” she said, smiling and looking away, “but
you’ve got me now.”
What did she mean? he wondered. She herself
wondered if she really meant anything. Something
had made her say it; something that disturbed her.
L_l E built the two new rooms on to the house —
* 1 big rooms, with wide, high windows and jarrah
floors. He papered them with papers she chose in
the city. A new stove came out on a motor-truck
from the railway thirty miles off, with the piano and
the radio and the new pump for the pressure tank.
The tankstand soared above the new-ploughed
garden, the tank was fitted, the pump and pipe-line
connected, and the first water gushed up to christen
the soil. Digging manure and phosphates into the
soil, laying out beds and raking them fine and
smooth, planting and sowing and making the wide,
sloping lawn, Seaton exulted, thinking of Rhoda when
she would walk there, gathering flowers for the house.
Once in the six months he went down to see her
—when half of the time was past. When he came
back some of the flowers were blooming. No one had
ever seen Seaton so gay, nor heard him so talkative.
He talked to no one of Rhoda, but he talked all the
time of his place and the things he planned. He was
never satisfied, but rode about looking for new things
to do. In case the dam should run dry—which it
never had —he had a channel dug down the side of
a ridge to carry the water from an ever-flowing spring.
At night, when they lay in their hut, the men
would hear him walking along the verandah, sing-
ing vague, tuneless, enthusiastic songs.
Six months to the day after the death of Binstead,
Seaton and Rhoda were married. She had never seen
his homestead until that day when they drove out
from the railway in his car. The place as neat
as a suburban park; the hose was showering silver
spray over the flowers and young plants. Roses had
begun to climb up the posts of the water-tower.
Afterwards, in the big, cool sitting-room, she
clung to him and cried. “Tom, you’ve been wonder-
ful. I didn’t think anyone could ever be so good
to me.”
“But I love you,” he protested; “you belong to
_ 55
me.
The autumn days rose and fell like waves of a
golden sea. In the township, people talked. It was
pretty funny, they said, her marrying him so soon
after her husband died, too. Everyone knew he had
always been over at Binstead’s. And who was to
know, some of them asked, that Binstead really fell
down the well by accident? Of course, the boy Bill
Andrews was there at the time —or supposed to have
been —but they might have bribed him. He seemed
pretty prosperous when he went away . . .
But when people called at the Seatons’ they
went away convinced, ashamed even to have listened
to such talk. Seaton was not the same man he had
been a year ago—a hard, close-mouthed man who
kept people at a distance, a man with a tense look
and a restless way. Now he was placid and cheer-
ful, taking things easy and getting a little fat. If ever
a man was content with his home and his wife and
his garden, it was Seaton.
And, after all, they said, why shouldn’t she
marry again? Better than wasting her life moping
after Binstead. Some said he had given her a pretty
bad time, anyway . . .
\YES, Seaton was content. He would spend hours
* sitting on his verandah, watching the bees in
the flowers, listening to Rhoda playing or moving
about in the house. Plump and ruddy, no longer
leathery, he puffed away at his pipe in complete
placidity.
Rhoda used to watch him from the big window
of the sitting-room, her face pressed hard against the
painted frame. Strange, uneasy thoughts that she
could not fathom stirred her almost to a fever. Some-
times she would turn away passionately from the
window, open the piano and strike a few restless
chords. In the mornings she would go riding alone,
galloping through the dew or the frost. Something
was troubling her; a mysterious unrest that became
a doubt; a doubt that long hours of pondering shaped
into horrible certainty.
It was on a day in the spring that she knew at
last; a day when the air was like honey and the roses
glowed on the water-tower as they had glowed on
the window at the old place six months ago, when
Seaton passed in the dray. She sat in the shade of
a tree, watching the wind make patterns in the grass.
Everything was quiet, when, high in the air, she
heard the whisper of wings. The wild swans passed
over with a lonely cry.
Sinking into the grass, she hid her eyes in its
gloom, hot eyes that began to shed burning tears. She
tried not to sob, in case her husband might hear her,
her kind, contented husband who sat near by in the
garden, placidly smoking his pipe.
Tears wet her cheeks ; her slim hands clutched
desperately at the grass. Bitterly, uncontrollably,
she wept for the man she had loved, and
who was dead ; for Seaton the strong and splendid
lover, the man of patient, inexorable desire, to whom,
by right, she had belonged.
WINTER AT THE SEASIDE
BY LES ROBINSON.
PET horses, cows, goats and sheep, led about by
their leisurely owners or lessees, ate now to be
seen, any morning, busily devouring the long
and luxuriant, though ergotic, paspalum covering
the footpaths, and, perhaps, watered and manured,
when able, as very late at night for instance, to do so
unobserved, by boot-polish manufacturers. They, were
there all the summer, too, but their activities were
screened somewhat and impeded no doubt by surfers,
sightseers, fishermen, matrons and nursegirls wheeling
perambulators, canvassers, house-hunters and elderly
persons of both sexes accompanying or accompanied •.
by dogs.
Also to be seen are fur coats and necklets, feather
boas, sleeping and hot-water bags, bedding, rugs and
woollen garments of various kinds being sunned on
clotheslines, shrubs and windowsills. Defenceless
moths and silverfish are dying in droves, shoals and all
directions from sunstroke and injuries inflicted with
the back of a clothesbrush.
The village “he-men” (massive and porky for the
most part) whose gentle week-end tillage, sporadic
bouts of lawnmowing zeal, fence-mending, shack-
improvement and spasmodic efforts to intercept,
obstruct and exclude the übiquitous and, in
the long run, nearly always triumphant, although
apparently slow-moving, sand, don’t, one can’t help
noticing, seem to retard their girth-expansion in the
least, and no longer wear shorts, berets or beach-hats
and sandals only. Wrapped up now to an extent reminis-
cent of arctic explorers, they are (though not if they
can help it) to be seen occasionally staring glumpishly
at the landscape from glassed-in verandahs or crouch-
ing over fires, with their feet in mustard and hot water,
bawling peevishly, between sneezes and twinges of
lumbago, at their wives and offspring for leaving doors
and windows open.
One notices also that with the onset of winter
those persons who leant over front fences all the long
summer evenings, staring at passers-by have, greatly
to the relief of the latter, found nothing to do some-
where else. Perhaps, sitting in front of the kitchen
stove or the parlor fire, they are staring into the past,
the future or at one another for a change. Winter-
siders (those rich in leisure if in nothing else) who have
neither stoves nor fireplaces, for a good many seaside
shacks weren’t meant, apparently, to be used in cold
weather, seem, if not in bed before, to spend most of
their afternoons in making preparations that will
enable them to get there soon after sundown.
Crack, crack go the lamp-glasses when the bleak
westerlies, fresh from the frosty plains, and frigid
mountainous regions of the interior, smite the sand-
dunes, whipping off the crests and whirling them across
the beach, to mingle with the spindrift torn from the
tops of the waves. They went crack, crack o’ nights
sometimes in the summer as well, when the “black
nor’-easters” rattled shutters and windows, shook and
perhaps almost ripped loose sheets of iron off the
roof, but, being merely cool, or else warm, sticky and
enervating winds, not nearly so often. For truth to
tell some of these shacks, the aged ones in particular,
are as draughty as bird-cages. The draughts, how-
ever, even though they do crack lamp-glasses and
almost threaten to blow tenants out of bed at times,
are a distinct advantage in one way since they hinder,
scatter, batter, disorganise, weary and infuriate the
hordes of mosquitoes, beetles, moths and other winged
insects which, unless he happens to be an entomologist,
so often mar what from a restful seasider’s standpoint
would, with sundry other blemishes removed, be almost
perfect summer evenings.
Strange, is it not, by the way how often some
insects, gnats and mosquitoes especially, mistake one’s
spectacles for pools of water and attempt to skate and
skim upon, wash in or slake their thirsts at them, also
to sting or go into conference with their own reflec-
tions, as viewed and very likely distorted therein and
thereby as well?
In winter the draughts are never advantageous
except from the point of view of the local storekeeper
from whom one buys cough mixture, backache lini-
ment, sneeze-cure and lamp-glasses.
Now it is that scraps of swimming costume, rem-
nants of gaily-colored bathgowns and towels flutter
alongside kitetails from telegraph and light wires, or
dangle, forlorn-looking relics of summer’s vanished
pageantry, with fragments of surf-shoes and fag-ends
of rubber bathing-caps, from fences, shelter-sheds,
birds’-nests and windbreaks.
Rabbits and bandicoots forage and gambol undis-
turbed in the forests of rank grass, bracken fern, reeds
and weeds that are rapidly obliterating occasional
attempts at vegetable-growing made by former tenants
of now-unoccupied week-end cottages, cabins, humpies
and of the garages, old pantechnicons, motor-buses,
tramcars and high-and-dry hulks even used also for
residential purposes in the hot weather.
Cats, tame and wild ones, always plentiful at the
seaside, attracted there, no doubt, from far and wide,
because of the increased facilities they are enabled to
enjoy of subsisting to an extent, though unless attached
to a successful fisherman’s menage, never great enough
from their point of view, upon fish, seem to enjoy
themselves most in the winter time, too. For one
thing, there are fewer people about at night, and, in
consequence, there is less noise, except for the very
considerable amount (when the dogs of the neighbor-
hood are elsewhere, or too intent upon their own
affairs to molest them) that the cats very often make
themselves.
So staccato, on still and frosty nights, and so
crisp are the sounds made by the waves beating
against the rocks or breaking on the beach, and so
much louder than usual, even though heard from afar,
from a “handy-to-beach” bungalow distant a mile
or more from the water’s edge perhaps, that one
might easily imagine one was listening to records by
some ultra-modern process of sea-sounds, and that
the gramophone was in an adjoining room.
More cooking is being done. In the summer
months seasiders live largely (or small-ly, according
to income) upon smallgoods, tinned foods served cold,
salads, fruit and fish. They grudge the time that
must be spent indoors upon the preparation of three-
course meals. Now, however, the goodly odors of
steak and chops being grilled, of sausages, onions,
liver and bacon frying, of cabbage and cauliflower,
soup, roasts, stews and curries mingle and are wafted
o’er the landscape with the aromatic smell of brush-
wood fires by the chilly evening breeze.
There are permanent residents, birds, animals,
and, for all I know to the contrary, fish too included,
who, despite drawbacks (one forgets most of them
when there is no wind and the sun is shining) prefer,
as to some extent already indicated,*' winter at the
seaside to its long, hot, languorous, more colorful,
festive perhaps and populous summer days. Such
inhabitants, it must be admitted, are not, as a rule,
conducive to a suburb’s progress or prosperity.


A Remarkable Gift
GOLD RUSH and SMASHES
DRAWING BY SUCH.
By S. H. COURTIER.
THE crash that proved the unfortunate climax to
the ambitious career of Blaster’s Lost Reef
Gold Mining Syndicate received so much pub-
licity that you cannot help knowing something
of it. But, of course, you are quite unaware of the
inner history of the affair. Being the promoter of the
syndicate, I am sadly able to give the entire dope on
the disaster.
It was this way.
Invited to my mother-in-law’s birthday party, I
went along with pale forebodings of an evening
wasted. And such it would have been but for the
presence of Wilfred Baffel. When I saw Wilfred, a
skinny little runt, I had no idea I was looking at the
man who was to lift me into nation-wide notoriety.
At first glance, I classified Wilfred as the authentic
wet blanket. But I was wrong. Wilfred was the life
of the party. He put over a series of parlor tricks that
just about approached professional standard. He had
us in fits of laughter and amazement.
The highlight of his turns, however, was un-
doubtedly the gold-rod. This consisted of an ordi-
nary cotton-reel slung on the end of a piece of string.
With this apparatus, Wilfred claimed he could find
gold anywhere. And he did, too.
We would send Wilfred out of the room and
plant our gold watches, wedding rings, etc., in all
sorts of unlikely places. When Wilfred came in, he
would suspend the gold-rod in front of him and allow
it to take control of the proceedings. The cotton-
reel never failed to swing in the direction where the
valuables were hidden.
You’ll admit it was astonishing. All the same,
I was sceptical until the gold-rod started swaying
towards the sofa. As we had hidden nothing there,
we reckoned we had Wilfred tricked. Still the gold-
rod was very determined about the matter, so, in the
end, I shoved my hand down the back of the sofa —to
find the brooch ma-in-law had lost ten years ago.
It was a triumph that Wilfred bore with becom-
ing modesty. Always on the lookout for anything to
my advantage, I sat up and took notice and made a
point of walking home with Wilfred after the show
was over.
“How,” I asked, “did you develop this power?”
Wilfred said it wasn’t developed at all, but was
a hereditary gift. He explained that his wife’s great-
uncle had been afflicted in much the same way. He
said that, when the gold-rod was in action, he was
conscious of a strange force drawing him towards the
gold. He did not seek to explain it, but. just accepted
it as an immutable law of his mysterious constitution.
He had discovered his talent when, one day, holding
up a cotton-reel on a string to amuse his baby sister,
the reel had suddenly swung in and smacked him a
beaut, on the jaw.
“It took me a long time,” said Wilfred, “to
realise that it was the gold filling in my teeth that
was the trouble. Of course, as soon as I knew, I
had the gold fillings changed for porcelain.”
“A phenomenon,” I told him.
Hardly had I spoken when my words received
striking corroboraton. Wilfred had been toying with
the gold-rod as we walked along. All at once, it
made a terrific swing and smashed a shop window.
Startled, we turned to discover that the window was
filled with a gorgeous array of jewellery.
I grabbed Wilfred by the arm, and in a second
we were legging it down the street at just a shade
over evens. We didn’t pull up till we were a good
mile away.
“What’s the big idea?” Wilfred panted.
“Gosh! ” I said; “you’re a marvel, Wilfred.”
“Yes,” he agreed. “But why all the confounded
rush? It was only an accident.”
I said certainly, and assured him that no one
would dream of associating either of us with any-
thing so unpleasant as a smash-and-grab raid.
“But,” I went on, “we had to run. I’ve just had
a wonderful inspiration. And I don’t want any prema-
ture news-break such as would be inevitable if we
had to explain the gold-rod to the police.”
Wilfred naturally wanted to know what the in-
spiration was. I solemnly took him by the coat-
collar. “Have you ever heard of Blaster’s Lost Reef
in the centre of Australia, Wilfred?”
He was deeply impressed by my urgent manner
and nodded slowly.
“Good,” I said. “Then you know how expedi-
tion after expedition has gone out trying to locate it.
And each and every one has failed. Can you state
why?”
“It isn’t there,” Wilfred said.
“You betcher life it’s there,” I retorted warmly.
“Why, Blaster saw it himself —forty miles of it, chock-
a-block with gold. No, Wilfred, the reason why it
hasn’t been found is that the previous expeditions
didn’t know it when they saw it. But we—you and
I —we’ll know it all right.”
“We’ll know?” Wilfred gasped. “What do you
mean?”
“Just that we are going after Blaster’s Lost
Reef,” I replied. “And the gold-rod will tell us when
we strike it. Think of it —forty miles of gold. Untold
wealth is ours, Wilfred.”
It did not take Wilfred long to realise the mag-
nitude of the conception. He took my hand in con-
gratulatory grip. And that was the inception of
Blaster’s Lost Reef Gold Mining Syndicate.
OF course, the syndicate wasn’t formed as easily as
all that, nor did it consist only of Baffel and
Bolt, the Bolt being me. Neither Wilfred nor I was
flush as far as ready money was concerned, so we
had to dig up members who could remedy our finan-
cial deficiencies. It was here that the gold-rod first
showed its worth. For
not only was it attracted
by gold, but it answered
to the call of what
amounts to the same thing,
a solid and respectable
banking account.
I grabbed Wilfred, and in a second we were
legging it down the street at just a shade over
evens.
Our method of dealing with applications to join
the syndicate was straightforward and simple. We
made it an imperative rule that all applications be
made in person to our office. As I questioned the
applicant, Wilfred was holding a private sdance behind
a screen with the gold-rod. If the gold-rod remained
lifeless, the applicant was out. On the other hand,
should it sway north and south, we flung our arms
around him and got his signature on the dotted line
before he knew what had happened. In this way,
we gathered a fine group of moneyed men behind us,
and were ready to discuss the practical details of our
venture.
“How,” asked Wilfred, “are we going to get to
Central Australia —by camel train?”
“Certainly not,” I replied. “We’ll go by aero-
plane, Wilfred. We shall charter a big passenger
liner and do all our exploration work in comfort and
ease.”
Until then I must say Wilfred had been rather
dubious about the scheme. He had been reading
about the heat and the flies and the dry stages that
seem to occupy so much of the Centre. But now he
became quite enthusiastic, and threw himself into the
arrangements with whole-hearted abandon.
However, there still remained a problem. How
was Wilfred to work the gold-rod? He had
the idea that it would »be necessary to come down
to earth to operate it successfully. And Wilfred did
not anticipate trudging over the Dead Heart with any
sort of pleasure at all.
I removed his last lingering fears.
“We shall operate the gold-rod from the air,” I
said. “Work this out for yourself, Wilfred. If a
jeweller’s shop window will pull the gold-rod from
a distance of six feet, how far will a gold reef, forty
miles long and heaven alone knows how deep, exert
its influence? It’s only a question of elementary
mathematics.”
Wilfred did work it out. He was convinced.
J T was in the highest spirits that we set out. The
* members of the syndicate waved us an affectionate
and trusting farewell, and the newsreel boys stopped
turning their cameras a moment to give us a cheer.
We arrived at Alice Springs the same day and our
hard work commenced.
Using the Alice as our base, we flew north and
south and then east and west with the idea that we
would eventually criss-cross the country with
imaginary lines never any more than three miles
apart. And all the time, Wilfred sat in the centre of
the cabin with the gold-rod hanging from his fingers.
It was a marvellous experience, and I must say
that we saw many facets of our far-famed inland,
but after the novelty had worn off it became mono-
tonous and we longed for the moment when the gold-
rod would establish recognisable communications with
the reef.
Now comes the ghastly part of the story. On
the thirteenth day out, the monotony was suddenly
and terribly broken. We seemed to have struck the
worst series of air-pockets and cross-currents in the
history of aviation. Soon it was apparent that we
were in desperate straits. Our pilot, a capable fellow,
did everything man could do. He zoomed, rolled,
looped the loop, twiddled with the controls, cut out
his throttles, opened ’em up again, dived, tailspinned,
threw a couple of sixers. It was no use. We were
going down! My tummy rose up and grappled with
my tonsils.
We hit the ground with a frightful thud and the
’plane disintegrated in a sheet of flame. And, at the
moment of impact, I realised what had really hap-
pened. It wasn’t engine-trouble, it wasn’t bad air-
conditions, it wasn’t poor flying. It was simply the
drag of the largest chunk of gold in the world on
Wilfred and the gold-rod ; for, believe it or not, we
had crashed fair on top of Blaster’s Lost Reef. If
I’d known in time, I could have heaved Wilfred out
and so saved the situation.
NT UMEROUS relief expeditions were sent out, but
they never found us. We had to make our own
way back to civilisation —per boot. We hoofed every
foot of the terrible, drought-stricken, sun-incinerated
way, a miraculous performance in the circum-
stances. The trouble is that all our instruments,
charts and records were lost in the crash, so the only
means we have of verifying the position of the reef
is the gold-rod. Unfortunately, our fearful perish on
the way home has turned Wilfred dippy. He abso-
lutely refuses the aid of the gold-rod. He says that
one crash is enough for him and he won’t fly over
Central Australia again for all the gold in Blaster’s
Lost Reef.
All the same, it’s a splendid achievement to have
actually found the reef, thus completely confound-
ing all the critics who denied its existence.


ESTABLISHED
1834
THF
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.B.E.j
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
PERFECT
f’o/t
A Whisky with
Many Qualities
Canadian Club Whisky—bottled in bond at pre-war
strength—ha? a delightful mildness and softness with
a noticeably clean taste to the palate. It is the pro-
duct of over 70 years' experience, and sets a standard
of perfection that is seldom equalled and never
excelled. The age of every bottle of Canadian Club
Whisky is certified by a stamp affixed round the neck
of the bottle.
Agents
John Woods & Co. Ltd.
388 Sussex St.,
Sydney
DISTILLED BY HIRAM WALKER & SONS LTD.,
WALKERVILLE, ONTARIO, CANADA, SINCE
1858.
CCS/38
PadiaN (M
Whisky STRENGTH
appreciate. The Land of Byamee has a similar inten-
tion, but its subject matter—though he gives assur-
ances of its authenticity—would be better if it were
documented throughout, as in the case of the frog
legend.
After Communism.
We the Living, a first novel by Ayn Rand,
recently reviewed here, was the story of a girl, the
daughter of a family of White Russians, who tried to
adapt herself to the new regime and was eventually
shot while trying to escape across the frontier. The
book, notwithstanding the rather creaky mechanism
of its plot, was a fairly convincing picture of recon-
structed Russia.
The same author now puts out Anthem, which is
a lineal descendant of H. G. Wells’s The Time
Machine, but without the works, and also has many
relations in recent fiction, including Huxley’s Brave
New World. Anthem tells of the end of one world —
the world after ours —and the beginning of another.
It is a picture of Communism driven to its logical end,
the individual entirely submerged in the mass ; life
reduced to a deadly and stultifying routine and pro-
gress to a thin dribble. The only thing that has sur-
vived is human cruelty, the will of the mass to destroy
whoever differs from his brothers. Children are be-
gotten at the ringing of a bell, brought up in barracks,
named by a number, educated en bloc, given their life
work out of a hat, and at 40 sent to the Home for
the Useless. Even amusement is supplied out of a tap.
There is a play shown upon the stage, with two
great choruses from the Home for Actors, which speak
and answer all together, in two great voices. The plays
are about toil and how good it is. Then we, the
audience, walk back to our home in a straight column.
The sky is like a black sieve pierced by silver drops
which tremble, ready to burst through. The moths beat
against the street lanterns. We go up to our beds and
we sleep, till the bell rings again. The sleeping halls
are white and clean and bare of all things save one
hundred beds.
The story is of the exceptional man, Equality
7-2521, a street-sweeper, and is told by him in the
plural. He refers to himself always as “We” since
“I” has been blotted out of the language at the Great
Rebirth when all the books in the world were burnt.
Equality 7-2521 discovers a tunnel, evidently a rail-
way tunnel that has survived from the unmentionable
times, and, experimenting alone —a heinous crime in
itself —he rediscovers electricity. He takes his dis-
covery to the World Council and they give him
Galileo’s welcome. He flees to the forest to escape
death, and there learns the sweetness of solitude and
independence. The one exceptional woman, Liberty
5-3000, follows him and they rediscover love. Wan-
dering bn they find a house that has somehow escaped
destruction and on its hearth rekindle civilisation.
It is here that Equality 7-2521 discovers that indi-
viduality is the crown of life.
For great are the evils of the earth, but none so
great as the evils which come from men. And the
greatest of these lies hidden in one word, and this word
is “we.” For this word has a monster hidden in it.
This word can escape its master. And when this word
takes the power over man, then does it bring forth
upon earth all of man’s sorrows and man’s darkest
shame. It is the word by which the wicked steal the
virtue of the good, by which the weak steal the might
of the strong, by which the fools steal the wisdom
of the sages.
The best part of Anthem is its intention, its
defence of individual liberty. It won’t reach as wide
an audience as its predecessor, for it fails as a story.
It falls between abstractions. It has too little sub-
stance, and some passages, particularly those that deal
with the rediscovery of electricity, are very weak. The
story is meant to rise at the end on wings of ecstasy,
but somehow the mechanism doesn’t work —it only
flaps.
Amelia Earhart's Log.
To have published Amelia Earhart’s Last Flight
without heroics or sentimentality was about the most
appropriate tribute Harrap could have paid her. The
book —mainly articles she wrote before she dis-
appeared in the Pacific, somewhere between New
Guinea and Howland Island —is as matter-of-fact and
as humorous as if the flight had been successful.
Jean Batten’s autobiography (R.P. 20/7/’3B)
revealed the Maorilander as a fine flier but a poor
journalist, and kept the secret of her personality closely
guarded; Last Flight, though casually it recoids
equally heroic adventures, is excellent journalism and
a captivating portrait of its author. About the only
mention she makes of her fame, for instance, is to
commiserate with a racing pigeon that someone in
Miami had named Amelia. She quotes with relish a
passage from a Kansas paper:
Amelia dear, we knew your pappy when he was a
cake-eater in the university 50 years ago, so we have a
right to take you aside and tell you something. It is
this —we hope to heaven you’ve packed a comb, for you
certainly need to comb your hair. So in the long, lone
watches over the grey and melancholy ocean, comb your
head, kid, comb your head!
A bit of life-story, a lot about the preparation
for the world-flight, and then she describes the take-
off, not melodramatically, but by commenting humor-
ously on a radio station that broadcast a melodra-
matic account of it an hour after she’d left, for the
benefit of “the civilised stay-a-bed Miamians.” Over
Africa she remembers a cartoon of “a blase and tech-
nically-informed African negro with shield and spear
looking at a ’plane overhead. ‘H’m,’ says the darkie,
‘a new Lockheed!”’ In Karachi she sports with a
newspaper item declaring that all American Army
airmen with false teeth had been ordered to take ’em
out before flying, as “the violent motions of the
machine in flight were liable to shake them down
their throats and choke them.” Over Darwin she
declaims “Once aboard the lugger and the pearl is
mine!” In a New Guinea village where pigs are
used as watchdogs she reflects how undignified it
would be to be bitten. Then she talks about setting
off to microscopic Howland Island: “I shall be glad
when we have the hazards of its navigation behind us.”
There, abruptly, the book ends.
There is plenty of serious matter mingled with
the pleasantries, and a really tremendous drama lies
beneath them ; but what gives the book its outstand-
ing merit as a book is the effective way in which she
gets her gay, gallant, intelligent personality down on
paper.
Verses from Melbourne.
A sureness of phrase —“The sword of drought
swings by a season’s hair”—sets Mary Finnin’s A
Beggar’s Opera (W. A. Hamer, Melbourne) well above
the average of the booklets of verse that manage to
get themselves published here. In nearly all of the
thirty or so poems she offers there are flashes of the
same precision: time, in an orchard, a dancer s
measure of fruit and flower-fall”; black ants
“quartering the red earth” seen as “black lace” on
an urn ; thousands of “Jonahs” (a neat reference to
the Louis Stone character) emerging from “suburbia’s
whale.”
Too many such images are buried in confused
and tumbling verse that looks like Hopkins per Laura
Riding,- but the poem “Waterfall” (which was pub-
lished as a Bulletin Abo. verse) is clear and com-
petent, and there is effective simplicity in:
Love is a clouded moon
Moving with secret flight
Through the deep skies of passion
In the soul’s dark night.
Hopkins is a bad master. He declared himself
dissatisfied with his own turbulent eccentricities at
the end and wanted to mould them into form. When
he teaches Laura Riding to break her rhythms he is
useful; but when other poets use him as an excuse
for tailing off into weak vers libre his “bright and
battering sandal” only gives verse a kick on the shins.
Mary Finnin has studied him or his imitators so
closely that she even uses his own pet words—
“dandled” and “salt-savor.” Occasionally, as in
“Parting, Floodtide,” she makes effective use of
broken rhythm:
No more now, love —•
The ships already ride
Under the stars with bows toward the sea.
This edging water is a sword that works
Parting young lovers for the strangest ends —
Striking at friends.
Cry not my name upon the darkening tide:
1, too, have died.
She has achieved one more remarkable feat:
written a good poem about Sydney’s bridge, from
whose arch about 13 lesser writers a week go hurtling
into the w.p.b.:
Nor shall your grim, ascetic steel prevail
Against impermanence—no roads go on
And bridges drown when their last use is gone.
Man’s need sustains you now, but passers-by,
After, will find no scar upon the sky.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
Our Paths Grow Wider: Joyce A. Allen (Stock-
well). Modem youth. Judith decides to say “I will.”
Lucy and Amades: Esther Meynell (Chapman
and Hall). It follows Time’s Door. Lucy bolts with
Amades, the Italian pianist, then returns with him to
face county society. Quite readable.
The Travellers Return : E. F. Bozman (Dent). A
ghost story with a purpose. The shades of men killed
in the war return 10 years after to an English village
to take a hand in the affairs of the living. A good
light job.
Snatch and Grab: Rex Grayson (Longmans,
Green). A Melbourne barrister wins £25,000 and sets
off around the world in pursuit of a girl who had
turned him down. On the way he has adventures with
hoboes, kidnappers, wandering evangelists, and looks
in at Hollywood. He gets the girl. The author is an
old friend of Australian magazine readers —particu-
larly those in the country. This, his first published
book, is up to standard.
General ...
Marsden in Maoriland: A. H. Reed (published by
the author). An account of Samuel Marsden’s several
journeys across the Tasman. Most of its historical
facts are contained in other authorities. It is popular
narrative, with frequent references to Marsden as
“our Greatheart.”


Be a Diesel Engineer
Earn £’s Weekly EXTRA
through practical training in spare-time home study
5Sv
j vn
w
5x
Deb
o
YOU
can quickly qualify by practical
correspondence training in your
spare hours for a well-paid
position in Diesel engineering—the coming
profession for trained engineers with specialised
technical knowledge. Never were opportuni-
ties so great as in this relatively new and
uncrowded field of engineering.
BIG DEMAND
For Trained Men
More and more, the advantages of Diesel
power are being realised in all departments
of industry. Power users are changing rapidly
to this cheaper and more efficient form of
power. The demand for the skilled, trained
man has never been so great.
The College can teach anyone about Diesels,
even those who know nothing about internal-
combustion engines.
EXTRA Earnings
Here is your chance to capitalise on these
opportunities. NOW is the time to get into
Diesel engineering and qualify for the big, well-
paid positions that await the expert Diesel
engineer.
Expert Instruction
The scientific instruction offered by the Diesel
Engineering College, which specialises exclu-
sively in Diesel training, is your guarantee of
success in this fascinating profession.
If you are really ambitious—if you want to
earn more —if you want to get ahead of the
next man —to stand out by virtue of your
knowledge—send in your enquiry to-day
regarding the Diesel Engineering College
courses.
It doesn’t matter how far away you live, you
can qualify just as easily as the man in the
city through these well-planned, comprehensive
courses.
Over 1000 Students
Throughout Australasia
The Diesel Engineering College has over 1 000
students in all parts of Australia, New Zealand,
Federated and Mandated Territories, New
Guinea and the Pacific Islands. This vividly
illustrates the fact that our course of training
is well and favorably known and our practical
service to all of our students has shown success-
ful results.
Primary Course
The Diesel Engineering College engineers,
after years of research, have prepared a com-
prehensive course for the beginner in the con-
struction, operation and maintenance of Diesel
A ’
fOCL INMICTION Nome*
*lft (NJECTIOM 4
CA*
tficci
Section through 2-stroke Com-
pression-Ignition Engine.
Above is one of many Diagrams used in the
Course of training, and very fully described
in the Paper dealing with this matter. Every
subject is fully explained and illustrated with
diagrams similar to the above.
engines. The lessons are set out in the simplest
manner, with countless illustrations, diagrams,
etc., and are checked by competent examiners
who help the student. This course covers two
main sections of Diesel engineering, either or
both of which may be selected: TRACTION
DIESEL (tractors, lorries, motor-buses, etc.) ;
STATIONARY DIESEL (power plants for
factories, farming, electricity, etc.).
Advanced Course
(Including High-speed Diesels)
For mechanics, engineers, and those who
already have a preliminary knowledge of this
interesting and coming motive power.
This Advanced Course is covered by 12
lessons, and is plainly written, with all neces-
sary charts and diagrams, enabling the student
to make a comprehensive study of this im-
portant subject. All phases of research and
latest developments are covered from operation
to installation.
The many intricate Diesel problems which
occur and will continue to crop up are
thoroughly and comprehensively dealt with in
this Advanced Course, and the students’
answers to the questions in the Lessons are
carefully checked and commented upon by
engineering experts.
Diploma Given
The student of either course should, upon its
successful completion, be possessed of all the
necessary technical knowledge required of a
competent DIESEL engineer, and, in recogni-
tion of the fact, is awarded the Diploma of
the College.
FREE BOOK
A free book has been prepared to give 3'ou
complete details of either course in which you
may be interested (whether Primary or
Advanced). Send for it to-day.
Specially prepared by the Principal ot the
College, Mr. W. Kingsford Smith, it tells you
simply and clearly of the opportunities in
Diesel engineering and gives full details of
the Diesel Engineering College courses, terms,
etc. The fees are low, and may be paid either
in cash or by easy instalments.
Remember, on sea, land, road, in factories and
in the air, the cry is for Diesel power and for
Diesel-trained engineers.
Find Out NOW
what opportunities Diesel engineering offers
YOU. Learn how you can, in your own time
and as you wish, study under the guidance of
qualified experts. And remember it’s the
TRAINED man that gets the highly-paid job.
It Costs Nothing
for you to send in your enquiry—and there is
no obligation. But it may be the turning point
in your life—may show you the way to a
successful lifetime career. So write now—•
to-day.
NOTE. —The College has just moved to much
larger and more commodious premises at the
address shown below.
Offices at SYDNEY Newcastle
MELBOURNE.
Remember! There is no obligation if you
write for the Free Booklet.
Be sure and advise, when you write, whether
you require particulars of the Primary or the
Advanced Course.
FREE
BOOK
gives you full information
regarding the courses of
this, the largest Diesel
Engineering College in
Australasia.
Post this enquiry NOW.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE.
The Principal,
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 A George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Without obligation to me, please forward full information regarding your
course (state if Primary or Advanced Course
is required).
NAME
ADDRESS
3. 3/8/38.


gg|gf a •
w
i
*& y.
./•
~-l;
. :
/ ■ «
y/y
»11
/■y Mv**
/ 'lfcl U.V ■
/ ;,-.4 m JSP
n &m
m
V *
* V
r
r v-
* m
I \-y
m
1
X«
V
■
Hi
*
Idi
Ip
j
H''!
'
' V >■".} r * /%«
v "&' JmK&s ' '
:■■■.
pis'
'- ./I
1
V>>
HE
M


IMPERFECT PEACE.
“Hey, you ought to be fightin’.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( .Aus .). Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street. London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
A MESSAGE FROM MENZIES.
Whatever may be thought of the Commonwealth
Attorney-General’s visits to London, it cannot be
denied that he has a cool head and is a shrewd
observer. In 1936 he formed the opinion that Mr.
W. S. Morrison, then a minor Minister and only a
name to Australians, was one of the coming men
in the House of Commons and a future P.M. What
Mr. Menzies said then many Englishmen are saying
now.
Last week, talking to an Associated Press corre-
spondent, our Attorney-General pronounced the state
of Europe “more stable than when I was here in
1936”:
There are explosive elements, but there are important
factors telling in the direction of peace.
The settlement with Italy, though technically incom-
plete, has undoubtedly had a tranquillising effect on
British and Italian public opinion.
The agreement of Montreux has had admirable
results for Turkey. Anglo-Egyptian relations have been
vastly improved by the Anglo-Egyptian Treaty.
All these are factors that make the Mediterranean
look calm compared with its condition in 1936.
One sees in Europe, for the first time for years,
signs of understanding between Britain and Germany.
At the same time, the Anglo-French entente has been
so dramatically demonstrated by the royal visit that a real
effect must have been produced in the rest of
Europe Quite obviously Britain and France are at
least as much concerned to urge reasonableness on
Prague as to advocate moderation in Berlin.
There is no reason why, with sensible doctors in the
Foreign Offices, Europe should not make a satisfactory
recovery.
“S. M. Herald” did not “star” this important
speech. It gave a better position and three times as
much space to a dissertation by “Diplomaticus,”
described as a “well-known commentator on foreign
affairs.” “Diplomaticus” began with the allegation
that “the international diplomatic atmosphere is
sultry,” and went on to assert that “the solution of
certain conflicts is becoming ever more difficult and
relations are growing more strained,” adding, for good
measure, that “the obstructions” encountered by Hitler
' and Mussolini on their road to European “hegemony”
have so irritated them that not only Mr. Chamber-
lain but “their closest entourage” is “alarmed.”
On the next page there was a report of a speech
in which Mr. Chamberlain showed how little
“alarmed” he was. He said that the Italian Govern-
ment had “kept good faith” ; that “we have demon-
strated the possibility of complete agreement between
democratic and totalitarian States” ; that Hitler’s offer
of the naval treaty to which Britain and Germany
are parties was “a notable gesture of the most prac-
tical kind in the direction of peace,” the value of
which had “not been fully appreciated” ; that Berlin
and Prague had expressed their desire for a peaceful
settlement of the matters at issue between them, and
Czechs and .Sudeten Germans had agreed to
Lord Runciman as “investigator and mediator” ; and
that at Paris, on the occasion of the King’s visit, while
the unity brought about by “common interests and
ideals” had been strengthened, there were “no new
undertaking and no new commitment on either side. ’
Nor does this exhaust the list of good things
accomplished, or at least attempted. In Spain, while
the fighting proceeds, both parties have accepted the
Non-intervention Committee’s plan for the with-
drawal of volunteers. And in the same non-interven-
tion spirit there have been British approaches to both
combatants in China, and the beginnings of an effort
to restore the old friendly relations with Japan.
Mr. Chamberlain was not reported fully—he never
is in Sydney newspapers —but the “Herald” did
devote 15 or 16 inches to what he said. The “Daily
Telegraph” cut him down to 4\ inches, and pitched
into him in an editorial, mainly on the score of state-
ments it chose not to report. For example:
He says it is not Italy’s fault that a Spanish settle-
ment has not been reached, though it is open know-
ledge that continued Italian intervention in Spam is
almost entirely responsible for Franco’s recent successes.
So far from this “knowledge” being “open” it
seems to be confined to Briddish Laborites like Laski
and Shinwell, and overseas newspapers like the
“Cronk-News” and the “Daily Herald,” and Aus-
tralian journals which get their information from
such spurces and implicitly believe what they want to
believe. In these quarters a simple formula is applied
to the course of the Spanish war: when their side
wins a battle it is because “the Italians” can’t fight >
when their side loses, it is because “the Italians” had
an overwhelming superiority in numbers and machines.
But the point is that the statement for which the
“D.T.” attacked Mr. Chamberlain did not appear in
its report.
Omitted from the “D.T.” report also was the
reference to Hitler’s offer of the naval treaty. Never-
theless, the “D.T.” discovers that this naval treaty
was “made without consultation with France, involved
a violation of the Versailles Treaty, ignored the
interests of other European States, and has been
recognised since as an outstanding example of political
blundering.” Recognised by whom? Stalin, no doubt:
“since Germany’s naval strategy is directed primarily
at Baltic operations, it gives her exactly what she needs
for Baltic supremacy.” But if that is so it is Stalin’s
business, and, though Stalin may be a god to Reds
and Pinks, Stalin’s business is no concern of the
British Empire.
Melbourne “Argus” publishes “Independent”
cables, as does the “D.T.,” which introduced the
service. The “Argus’s” report of the Chamberlain
speech that the “D.T.” reduced to 4j inches ran to
36 inches. This is how it began:
Concluding a review of the international situation in
the House of Commons yesterday afternoon, the Prime
Minister declared, “The Government believes that in
the end we shall succeed in bringing back security and
confidence to Europe.”
And this is how the “D.T.” put it:
“The British Government believes that eventually it
will bring back security and confidence to Europe,” said
the Prime Minister in the Commons.
“But,” he warned the House, “let nobody imagine
that the Government is willing to sacrifice, even for
peace, British honor or British vital interests.”
People who buy the “D.T.” have a right to know
why they were denied a fair report of the most im-
portant and reassuring speech on subjects which inti-
mately concern every one of them that has been made
this year. It will be useless to explain that a fair report
was crowded out because preference had to be given
to an exultant account, preceded by a gloating note
on the front page, of a “victory” for the Spanish
Reds.
For three years the world has lived in the shadow
of another world war. It is doubtful whether any
Government ever wanted another, and it is increas-
ingly evident that no Government wants it now; the
Spanish and Chinese conflicts have brought it home
to all Governments that even localised wars may drag
on indecisively for years. It may still be within the
power of knaves and fools to undo the work of the
practical peacemakers headed by Mr. Chamberlain,
but their opportunities are sensibly receding.
Government by Regulation.
It has been brought home to every thinking Aus-
tralian that, although his country supports more
members of Parliament, in proportion to population,
than almost any other country, government by regu-
lation has grown alarmingly. This is realised by mem-
bers themselves, and from time to time they protest
bitterly; now and then they even stage a sort of
revolt. There was one recently in the Ministerial
party-room in Macquarie-street, Sydney. Premier
Stevens suavely promised that his Administration
would mend its ways. But if any of the revolters or
anyone else imagines that this means the end of gov-
ernment by regulation in N. S. Wales he must be
a singularly credulous person.
The Senate has —or had —a Committee of Regu-
lations and Ordinances. It arrived in 1932 after a
revolt like the one in Macquarie-street, Sydney, and
it had worthy aspirations. Clauses of bills conferring
regulation-making powers were not, in effect, to confer
legislative powers. Not jacks-in-office issuing capricious
ukases but Courts in reasoned judgments were to deter-
mine the rights and liberties of citizens. And so on.
The committee had several brushes with the
Government. It sadly remarks in its last report
that some of its recommendations were regarded as
hostile, and that its activities have not resulted in
any appreciable reduction in the number of regulations
issued. Every time it struck at some abuse the com-
mittee came out of the fray feeling as if it had been
dealing with Joe Louis.
When the committee was young and enthusiastic
it put it to the Senate that the principles governing
the censorship of films should be expressed in an Act
of Parliament. The Senate approved of this recom-
mendation. The Government ignored it. At this there
was some murmuring, but in the result the com-
mittee was frigidly informed that questions affecting
Government policy were outside its scope.
It slept on the rebuff for three years; then it
started up and went into action again. Its chairman,
Mr. Duncan-Hughes, proposed that a Dried Fruits
Control regulation should be disallowed. In a case
in which the Post Office was concerned, the High
Court had ruled that, though Parliament could make
a statute which would apply retroactively, a depart-
ment could not issue a retroactive regulation without
specific Parliamentary authority. The Dried Fruits
Control regulation, made in 1935, “sought to legalise
payments to officials dating back, in some instances,
to 1926,” and this Parliament had not sanctioned.
Mr. Pearce was then leader of the Senate. He
protested that the procedure —the Senate committee s,
not that of the Dried Fruits concern —was “extraordi-
nary” To ask the Senate to disallow a regulation
merely because a committee thought it should be
disallowed was “to take away from this branch of
the Legislature authority which it should guard very
jealously.”
Senator Tom Brennan was then a Minister. He
produced a joker. There were nine paragraphs in
the regulation. Mr. Brennan said:
Paragraphs one and two are perfectly valid. But
they would be disallowed if the motion were agreed to.
I take it that the only desire of Senators is to reject
that part which conflicts with the decision of the High
Court.
He called for the rejection of Mr. Duncan-Hughes’s
resolution, and gave an undertaking that the Govern-
ment would either repeal the regulation or remove
the offending provision. The Senate, it was stated,
had power to reject the whole of a “comprehensive”
regulation, but it could not reject or amend individual
clauses, though they might, in effect, be separate regu-
lations.
The Government introduced a bill to legalise its
actions and widen its powers to make retroactive and
other regulations. At the committee’s instance, the
Senate debated a proposal that no regulation should
issue until the Attorney-General or the Solicitor-
General had given a certificate that the powers con-
ferred would not be in excess of those conferred by
the mother Act; but the voting was 14 to 14, so the
thing was lost. The Ministry gave an assurance that
all departmental heads would be directed to submit
regulations to the Attorney-General, which procedure,
it was asserted, would be “as effective as the proposed
certificate.” A grim joke, since departments could
make their regulations and “submit” them when they
thought fit; but the committee mournfully accepted
the assurance.
After that experience came the trade-diversion
tomfoolery. The committee is “much concerned”
at the manner in which the oracle was worked.
Trade diversion was sprung on Parliament and country
on May 22, 1936. Parliament rose that day. Regu-
lations were hurriedly drafted and put into force. The
Japanese at once went out of the wool market, and
wool prices fell.
The committee remarks that in “ordinary cir-
cumstances such an important item of policy would
have been laid on the table of the House so that it
would be subject to Parliamentary scrutiny before
being operated.” In any case, it should have been
the subject of an Act of Parliament. There was no
Act of Parliament, and members did not even see the
regulations till four months' afterwards, when great
damage had been done. There was all the greater
need for Parliamentary scrutiny since the validity of
the regulations was questioned, though, in the end,
the High Court upheld them by a majority verdict.
Most of the members of the Senate committee
are now out of Parliament. Their unfinished work
should be taken up and tackled more resolutely by
the Senate as now constituted; it would be a very
good way of regaining prestige for a Chamber which
has been steadily losing it since 1910. Impartial
examination of all the regulations and ordinances,
Commonwealth and State, would show an appalling
usurpation of authority by Ministers and bureaucrats.
And Parliament, fortified by public opinion, is the only
machine which can put a stop to this menacing abuse
of executive power.
The Street-transport Business.
In no other city in Australia, if not the world, are taxi-
men chevvied so much as they are in Sydney. They are
under the orders of a Government Transport Depart-
ment which runs trams and buses, and the private
taxi business is made subservient to the tram-and-bus
interest. Orders to taximen proceed from the tram-
and-bus G.H.Q. in a constant stream. They mustn’t
cruise; they mustn’t go here, they mustn’t go there ;
they must charge so much in the city and so much
in the suburbs —and so on.
In spite of this bureaucratic despotism, taxi con-
cerns are doing well. Yellow Cabs, for example, is
paying 8 per cent, dividends, and its shares, very low
during the depression, are quoted above par. Ail this
on a tariff which, considering the taxes and the prices
they have to pay, is moderate: Is. flagfall and 6d. a
mile. Private operators are also prospering, and if
a man with one or more taxicabs wanted to sell out
he could get at least £7OO a plate.
It is different with the Government trams and
buses. For the year to June 30, during which the 150th
Anniversary celebrations brought record crowds into
the city, the Sydney Government tramways are alleged
to have shown a profit of £43,200, but a loss of
£22,600 on the Newcastle tramways is admitted.
And in respect of both enterprises “there was a
decrease of £74,400 in the amount necessary for writ-
ing off abandoned assets.”
Even in Mr. Lang’s time there were no Govern-
ment buses. The fleets of Government buses plying on
the roads in Sydney and suburbs and Newcastle were
put there by the “anti-socialist” Administration. On
June 30 they numbered 335, 133 having been added
during the twelvemonth. A profit of £7500 is claimed.
The story is that the £7500 and £9600 more was
earned in Sydney; the loss occurred in Newcastle.
If a Government can’t clear expenses, on trams
and buses in good years, when the only form of com-
petition it permits is severely restricted, as well as
heavily taxed, it should go out of the game. It is
certain that private people would pay substantially
for the right to use routes on which the Government
loses the public’s money. Yet bureaucrats are for
ever urging the Government to sink a lot more money
in the street-transport business, though they don t
seem to be certain whether their preference runs to
trams, trolley-buses, petrol-buses, Diesel-buses or
producer-gas buses. And the Government is all
too willing to borrow for the caprice of the moment,
whichever it happens to be. \


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Back to Colonialism.
The N. S. Wales Government is importing a physical-
culture instructor —an American, it seems —for its
Education Department, and there are indications that
it will have to be restrained from importing a Director
of Education —probably English. Mr. Drummond,
the Minister, explains that Australia has nobody with
the qualifications required of a departmental physical-
culture instructor, except a German domiciled in Vic-
toria.
Mr. Drummond’s ideal physical-culture instructor
must have the equipment of a university professor.
Judging by the newspaper writings and radio beilow-
ings of some university professors Australia knows,
he would get on better without it.
At the same time, Mr. Thorby, the Minister of
Defence, has been explaining why his Government
has imported a general. The matter, it appears, came
up at the last Imperial Conference, when “Australian
Ministers urged that if a senior officer was selected
for a Dominion appointment he should be an authority
of great eminence.”
Alternatively, if a less senior and younger officer was
selected he should be an outstanding man of his rank,
with years of service ahead of him and prospects of
advancement.
Twenty years ago the Australian brigades and
divisions in the field were all commanded by Aus-
tralians, and the leader of the Australian Army in
France was an Australian. Thus led, the Australian
soldier won undying glory. But here we find an Aus-
tralian Government humbly accepting a position of
inferiority and letting the War Office decide how the
small A.M.F. shall be led, and by whom.
Accordingly, Lieut.-Gen. E. K. Squires has come
to Australia “for two years” as Inspector-General.
Mr. Thorby added that Lieut.-Gen. Squires was
stated to be one of the most promising of the younger
generals of the British Army.
The general’s attainments are not questioned, but
Who’s Who shows that he is not far off 56. It shows
also that he is three years older than Major-General
Lavarack, whom, presumably, he is to supersede for
two years, and two years older than Brigadier-General
Jess; and, although he had three years in the Meso-
potamian sideshow, his Western Front experience was
confined to months, whereas that of Jess lasted years.
One excuse for his appointment is that he has had
opportunities of becoming versed in post-war army
developments which have been denied to Lavarack
and Jess. It is really a count in the indictment against
a Government which, in the course of seven years,
has sent bands of politicians, secretaries, taxgatherers,
tidewaiters, typists and baggagemen to Britain, and
argued that the public interest demanded it.
Isaac Isaacs has referred in just terms to the
provincial reaction which has virtually cancelled the
inter-State freetrade clause of the Constitution, and
made the Riverina the sport of two transport tyrannies
—one directed from offices in Melbourne and the
other from offices in Sydney. These appointments are
other examples of colonialism. Sending abroad for
a soldier and a physical-culture instructor in the 38th
year of the Australian Commonwealth, and twenty
years after Villers-Bret., Mont St. Quentin and
Megiddo!
Australia, though the Thorbys and Drummonds
may not know it, has as many people as Sweden,
which is at least in the second rank of European
Powers, and has a greater population than Denmark,
Bulgaria, Finland, Estonia, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania.
Norway or Portugal. It is not on record that any of
these countries imports army leaders or physical-
culture instructors.
Real Relief in Queensland
The first definite step towards fulfilment of' the
Queensland Premier’s electoral promise of a cut in
unemployed-relief taxation and a definite overhaul
of the unsatisfactory intermittent-relief situation
appears in the transfer of the Industries Administra-
tion Act from the Chief Secretary’s office to the
Treasury. A census of relief workers has been taken
to ascertain the present capabilities and. former em-
ployment of each individual, information which will
be essential to a scheme for subsidising industries
and granting tax-relief on a numbers-employed basis
that was here suggested at the beginning of the
depression.
The Industries Administration Act was a Moore
product which, so far, has not done much to fulfil its
original purpose. It is administered by a board of
five, four civil servants and one representative of
private interests. Part of its activities under a sub-
sidisation scheme will certainly be that of testing the
claims made by many Queensland industrial enter-
prises that the existing relief taxation has injured
and limited their employment capacities. Substan-
tially more representation of commercial and indus-
trial interests on it seems to be needed.
p f!|i mated annual loss in relief-tax revenue
is 11,250,000 as a minimum, and subsidies must add
materially to this. Mr. Smith’s policy speech stated
the objective of the promised scheme as one of in-
creasing the number of full-time jobs. Representa-
tives of employers and employees have expressed warm
agreement.
The Government is prepared to add to the sum
ol regulai employment a substantial extension of
afforestation and irrigation activities, roadmaking and
other developmental works. Absorption of unskilled
labor will form a major problem at the outset, but
organised industry has offered to help in this also.
There will remain in any scheme a residue of
the unfit, the unemployable and the work-shy. In
addition, during eight years of an ineffective inter-
mittent system, there has grown up a large class of
young men who have never known what regular
work is. In the organisation and administration of
the Forgan Smith plan, success will depend largely
upon the firmness and commonsense with which all
these minorities are treated.
A High Commissioner for Maoriland.
Like Ihe other Dominions, Maoriland is to have a
British High Commissioner. There has been one in
Canada for a decade, and Sir Geoffrey Whiskard has
been at Canberra for some years.
British practice in these matters differs from that
of the Dominions. The Dominion system of appoint-
ing High Commissioners is to take a politician, often
venerable, and give him £5OOO a year, a pile of Lon-
don offices and a staff as big as the 10 tribes.
Britain, richer in £ s. d., is also richer in civil-
service talent. Its High Commissioners come from
among the principal clerks and assistant-under-
secretaries in the Dominions Office. They are men
of the world who study Dominion problems and
whose studies are topped off by travel —tours with
royalty or political missions—so that they may get
an insight into the overseas mind.
Sir Harry Batterbee, who goes to Maoriland, is
typical of his class. He has been a Dominions Office
man all his working life. He has been twice to Aus-
tralia and Maoriland: the first time in H.M.S. Hood,
as political adviser to the admiral and general diplo-
matist, spokesman and smoother-out of difficulties:
on the second occasion in the Renown with the present
King and Queen. Difficult jobs both, but any one of
a dozen Dominions Office men could have been chosen
for them with the certainty that he would not fall
below the standards required.
These officials are not highly paid, and the rooms
in which they work, small and unpretentious, would be
scorned by some of the new bureaucrats who have
built palaces for themselves with loan money in Aus-
tralia. But they are highly regarded, and they know
that, when there is a big job going which calls for
knowledge of Dominion affairs and a talent for getting
resuits by diplomatic methods, it will be reserved for
one of them, and not for some untrained politician
who may do his country harm by paying out stupid
chin-music —as Mr. Jordan did at Geneva.
Some Other Uncabled Additions.
Judging by her latest attempt to secure a few uncabled
additions to her cables. Granny “Herald” is not likely
to win the Nobel Prize for promoting peace in the
Pacific. She has added to the gallant band of authori-
ties who feed her with foreign “news” Mr. Edgar
Ansel Mowrer as “Our Special Correspondent.”
Mr. Mowrer is a U.S.A. journalist. According
to himself, he left Italy when it became impossible
to circumvent the censor, and left Germany when he
was pushed out. Not that Mr. Mowrer cared about
that, because it enabled him to go to Paris to “see
Fascism defeated by the Popular Front.”
For the “S.M.H.” he is reinforcing the ideas which
the China-war cables have done so much to foster.
In his view the Japanese are “ruthless invaders,” given
to “the almost universal abuse of women,” before
whose approach “multitudes pack up and leave.”
In Germany Mr. Mowrer found, not invaders,
certainly, but a people who, “in attacking the Jews,
were giving rein to that senseless self-destruction in
which they have always excelled.” The Nazis were
“carrying out their coup d’etat with a wealth of blood-
shed and sadism beyond Italian measure”:
Jobs for partisans—nearly two millions changed hands
in this greatest of all rackets—death, torture and con-
centration camps for opponents, absolute subordination
of everyone and everything to one man and one idea,
now reinforced by a racial idea that was a good excuse
for mistreating, robbing and exiling the Jews Paci-
fists brutally suppressed half-truth falsehood brayed
and sprayed into the ears of the masses.
He did meet some dissenters in Germany, but
they were “murdered or suppressed.” The Mowrer
idea of what constituted a “dissenter” was the notori-
ous Roehm.
To Mr. Mowrer Hitler “has a rather feminine
body, with sloping shoulders and soft flesh, given to
frequent fits of weeping.” Goring is “a one-time drug
fiend standing for naked violence, the more the better”;
Goebbels, a “wizened orator with a clubfoot and a
developed genius for mixing cynicism and guile.”
Britain has also incurred Mr. Mowrer’s dis-
pleasure as “a country which refused to honor her
signature” to save the Rhineland from Germany. And
in foreign matters she practises blackmail —“the black-
mailer of France,” blackmailed into “proclaiming
neutrality in Spain.” There is still a British Navy,
but in 1936 it consisted of “precious warships—
H.M.S. Unriskables.”
So Mr. Mowrer is eminently qualified to send
“news” from the Chinese front and give the public
what the public is supposed to want.
"Jews as Immigrants."
From Samuel Biber, president of the Polish Jewish
Relief Committee, Sydney, who, of course, is entitled
to his say:
It is high time to dispel the illusion of the Jewish
invasion in pre-Nazi Germany Five years of heart-searching
and account-rendering made by various German politicians and
intellectuals of “pure Aryan” origin like Breitsched and Heinrich
Mann have proved conclusively that the road to Nazism was
paved by the misguided social democracy of Scheidemann and
Ebert, non-Jews , and an encrusted Prussian officialdom, coupled
with political and economic causes such as the Versailles Peace
Treaty, reparations and inflation, rather than the much over-
rated influx of Eastern Europe Jews.
The galaxy of radicals enumerated in B. 27/7/’3B contains
non-Jews. Liebknecht and Zetkin were not Jews. Trotsky
and Zinoviev never set foot on German soil during the so-
called stab-in-the-back period in November, 1918.
We approve wholeheartedly of controlled immigration in
accordance with the absorptive capacity of Australia. We
believe that capital and brains can be absorbed in this country,
and we can quote ample evidence where Jewish immigrants
from Poland and Eastern Europe have by sheer hard work and
diligence built up factories which give employment to many
hundreds of Australians. These Jewish immigrants, who arc
by now well settled in the land of their adoption, have
learned to love and appreciate freedom and tolerance.
The long thorny path of Jewish martyrdom taught them
to suffer and forgive rather than hate their torturers. It is
our only pious hope that some mad-driven countries which
look for the scapegoat in the poor unfortunate Jew will be
restored to their mental balance.
You ask who has ever had or ever seen a Jewish slavey.
We agree that no one has heard of a Jewish slavey, because
we firmly believe that in this land of freedom and tolerance
there is no place for slavedom for Jew or Gentile, but there
are, however, many hardworking Jewish girls and women
employed in domestic duties in non-Jewish and Jewish homes
in this city.
With reference to Palestine, had it not been for the undue
zeal of Nazi propaganda and capital, and other totalitarian
interests, Jew and Arab could have lived side by side in peace,
love and harmony.
Finally we believe that the sense of justice and fair play
so deeply implanted in the heart of every Australian will see
that a haven of rest shall be given to suffering humanity irre-
spective of creed in accordance with the laws and regulations
of the country and in keeping with the absorptive capacity, so
that the standard of living of which every Australian is justly
proud shall not be impaired.
The writer, although not of Polish extraction or origin,
but British by birth, feels it incumbent upon him to make it
clear that his society, which works for the alleviation of suffer-
ing humanity in Eastern Eui'ope, will work hand in hand with
the powers that be, in accordance with a properly-controlled
immigration policy.
“The galaxy of radicals enumerated” consisted
of Liebknecht, Rosa Luxembourg, Clara Zetkin,
Trotsky, Zinoviev and Radek. The introduction of
Liebknecht seems to have been a mistake, founded on
a memory of his father’s connection with Karl Marx
(“in London he lived for 13 years in close associa-
tion with Marx”) and his own partnership with Rosa
Luxembourg (“born a Jewess; engaged in extreme
Communist propaganda and founded, with Karl
Liebknecht, the Spartacus League” —Encyclopaedia
Britannica). Anyway, the Liebknechts do not figure in
the Jewish Encyclopaedia as Jews. All the others do.
Of Clara Zetkin it is written: “She joined the Com-
munist party on election to the Reichstag. From 1924
to 1929 she lived in Russia, returning to Germany for
important meetings of the Reichstag, and as its senior
member was temporary chairman of its last session.”
The arrogant, threatening speech she delivered on that
occasion helped the Nazis.
Disgraceful Publicity.
“Dhas”: When a public man is charged with a sexual
offence he gets more publicity than a murderer, and
if the verdict is “guilty” it is the end of his career.
Even when the man is acquitted, or, as has just hap-
pened in Maoriland, the case is thrown out by the
Grand Jury, the publicity is a dreadful thing for him
and the members of his family.
Two months ago the name of the accused in
the M.L. case and a misleading account of the charges
against him were cabled to Australia. He is Clutha
Mackenzie, blinded on Gallipoli, and knighted for
his noble exertions for fellow-sufferers as director
of M.L.’s Institute for the Blind. The Magistrate’s
Court proceedings made big news.
When the case reached the Supreme Court Justice
Callan. said:
All of the acts alleged were of an indecent nature,
although the indecency was very light. The ages of the
men varied very much. The majority of them were
quite mature and middle-aged, but there were two or
three of them in their late teens, 19 or 20. Assuming
that the Grand Jury had the same evidence as he had
seen, they had statements by these eight men of handlings
which in their nature were prima facie indecent
assaults. These were at the present moment completely
uncontradicted and unexplained.
In the Lower Court, defence had been reserved.
The Grand Jury brought in no bill. So the cruel
publicity didn’t even get the mitigation of a Supreme
Court trial.
The newspapers can’t be blamed for reporting
the proceedings; competition forces them into such
publicity. But reputable journals would welcome any
Government action that would give them a chance to
dodge it.
Governments in Australia as well as Maoriland
will have to face the fact that most of such cases
should be dealt with by a medical board under the
supervision of a Judge; where an offence is caused
by a pathological condition, publicity is no more war-
ranted than when a man is declared insane. A system
that makes no distinction between men who are a
menace to the community, men who are simply unfor-
tunates and men whom a Grand Jury will consider
innocent shouldn’t be tolerated any longer.
Letting Everybody Know.
“Veteran,” his protest:
Is there any justification whatever for publication of
details concerning the supplying of arms and ammunition in
case of emergency, such as appeared in the newspapers recently?
It is inconceivable that information of that nature would be
published in foreign countries.
Nobody expects the police to reveal to possible burglars
details of their measures for the prevention of burglary.
Why should Ministers take it for granted that they are expected
to disclose their plans for the prevention of invasion?
As the position is now, any country with sinister designs
on Australia knows exactly where bombs should be dropped
in order to destroy units upon which Australia would rely
for manufacture of war materials in an emergency.
1 his is not by any means the first time our ingenuous rulers
have published information that would be regarded as secret
in any other country.


"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“T.”: All mankind is at the mercy
of cooks, doctors and chemists. How
great is its dependence on the accuracy
of the men who make up the prescrip-
tions was illustrated in the harrowing case
of the two Burwood (N.S.W.) boys—their
parents’ only sons —who, patients in a
private hospital waiting to have their
tonsils cut out, were given paraldehyde
in ounces instead of drachms. The dis-
penser of the fatal doses had been un-
der treatment for cancer of the throat;
to the jury (who acquitted him) he said
that worry, pain and pressure of work
had contributed to the tragic misreading
of the prescription, which was correct,
and doubtless as legible as such things
are. But this appeared in the report of
the doctor’s evidence:
The symbols for drachms and ounces,
he admitted, were similar, but there was an
additional curl on top of the ounce sign.
Now will anyone deny what Bulletin
writers have so often contended
that the law should insist on prescriptions
being written in English and doses ex-
pressed in words?
* * * *
“Melton”: “Miro’s” landlord (B.
29/6/’3B) who took off the roof to dis-
lodge unwanted tenants ran a rash legal
risk. Lately this method was used in
an outer suburb of Melbourne, and the
tenant’s furniture came largely unstuck
when it rained. Tenant took the matter
to court and got substantial damages.
* * * *
“S.”: The Burlington Liars’ Club,
which elected the Yankee airman Doug-
las Corrigan a member for saying he
flew the Atlantic by accident, has an
official representative in Wellington
(M.L.), where Parliament sits. He got
into the charitable organisation by sub-
mitting whoppers that came to his notice.
Even if cable-fakers and politicians, being
professionals, don’t count, there ought
to be a few Australian candidates among
the cod-fishers and goat-fanciers whose
nature notes enliven a section of the
paper that’s going to give me lucre for
this par.
•P # # #
“Nakhoda”: There is an air of casual-
ness about the loss of a casket of jewels
by the wife of an Indian doctor attend-
ing the Sydney Science Congress. It
turns out that the careless lady left them
in the train and they were returned by
the honest finder. How many wives of
Australian medicoes would carry round
a fortune in jewellery? But there is no-
thing remarkable about it. This Oriental
practice is a relic of the old-fashioned
suspicion of the white man’s financial
methods dating from the early days of
John Company in Asia. I have seen
the paterfamilias of an average Javan-
ese family walking along followed by
a wife with English sovereigns serving
as buttons on her jacket and carrying
a baby loaded with gold bracelets, neck-
laces and anklets, with the rest of the
brood bedecked in the same manner, all
an easy mark for a grab-and-run thief.
To put his property in a Dutch bank and
live on the interest would appear to the
old man a highly dangerous proceeding.
The practice largely enabled India to
weather the storms of the depression.
“Ek Dum”: Whatever the current
editions of Burke and Debrett may say
about the Egmont earldom (B. 20/ 7 / ’3B),
the 1938 Whitaker’s Peerage and Whit-
aker’s Almanac, both pretty reliable,
make no question about the status of
the present young man, and I notice that
the Lovel title, under which the Egmonts
are entitled to sit in the Lords, is in the
Lords’ “Hansard” this year without any
comment about its being in abeyance.
As for the rights of heirs, “Pardon Me”
is merely following one of his favorite
textbooks when he claims that heirs to
the Egmont title merely have the right
of knighthood under conditions. Actu-
ally, the patent entitles them to “exist as
baronets” upon reaching their legai
majorities.
% * * *
“Mayo”: Fare-dodging on the rail-
ways may be difficult (B. 13/7/’3B), but
on a tram journey of any length it is
almost impossible. Yet it can be done,
“Bad noos?”
“ Pretty putncl , Wot? A death in the famy’s left me the Dook of Bilge Water, an't goiter pay 'arf a
million Jimmy O’Gobs in death dooties.”
4 ~
at the expenditure of time and trouble.
For a bet a Sydney man undertook to
ride from Bondi Beach to the city free
of charge. He boarded a tram and, aided
by a gift for mimicry, posed as a be-
wildered Spanish gentleman with an idea
that road transport in Sydney was free
to all. He was gently ejected about the
second stop, with a company of witnesses
who had bought tickets. The same tech-
nique took him another few stops. By
adding deafness to his inability to under-
stand English he managed, by prolonging
each argument sufficiently, to reach the
first section fare-free ; thence it was
merely a matter of getting to town within
a set time limit.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The most delightful erratum
lately seen in a book is in Gilbert
Frankau’s new novel: “page 382, for
4ilb. read 711 b.” The item on page
382 is a telegram: “Succession assured.
Weight 4£lb. Both well.” Evidently
somebody told Frankau at the last
moment that 411 b. is no sort of weight
to boast about in an heir, and he con-
scientiously jumped in with a stop-press
emendation.
* * * *
“Dhas”: Ever since Works Minister
Semple said, before the last election in
M.L., that Labor would present the auto-
cratic boards with “running shoes,” the
term has cantered through the country
with ever-increasing velocity. Solemn
conservative newspapers have permitted
themselves the gibe that Semple himself
will get his running shoes next election;
it raises a laugh in public speeches every
day ; it’s used in law courts, and at bridge
parties when criminals revoke. An Inde-
pendent M.P. is the latest to fix the meta-
phor a little more permanently in the
language by suggesting that if Bishop
Cherrington brought his 5,000,000 Japan-
ese to Maoriland “a million and a half
pairs of running shoes would be required
by the country’s present population.” I d
have thought Billy Hughes might have
given Australia a similar quip, but the
only one I can remember is his “never-to-
be-sufficiently-admired Judge Foster,
which “5.M.H.,” with unwonted jocosity,
turned into “the never-to-be-sufficiently-
admired Mr. Hughes.”
* * * *
“Kohi”: Souvenir hounds have carted
away chunks of Vic.’s new train, the
Spirit of Progress, and the Commissioners
have appealed to passengers to help pre-
serve the conditions and appointments
of their expensive puff-puff. Among the
missing fixtures are washroom brush-and-
comb brackets and number-plates from
slots at the ends of the streamlined car-
riages. But souvenir addicts would take
anything. And in some instances this
form of kleptomania amounts to the high-
est sort of tribute. While the diminutive
Bert Cooke was a football hero in
Maoriland he lost more hats than any
man I’ve met!
* * * *
“Xo”: One of the numerous Jews con-
vinced by European occurrences that
Australia is more peaceful than Austria
has promised Melbourne plateless false
teeth. Appears he makes ’em from por-
celain and hangs ’em together with clasps
and wires. No one in Vic. seems to have
heard of them before—but not many
Anctraiinn<i know that the USA has per-
f , invisible spectacles According to
feeted invisible
P > and wittl good re _
len*f> « Ihamtesdy anf S° oa
suits over the eyeballs tnemseives.
* * *
“Last Race : A seaside suburb pro-
vides the most efficient s.p. service in
the Commonwealth. A tap on your
front door announces a runner who
takes your bet on the first race, comes
back before the second to pay you
an y winnings, and takes your
for the second. It goes on all the
afternoon and starts again on the dogs
at night. The runners make their rounds
on bicycles. One declares that he makes
six quid a week at it. The bookie mam-
tains his lines of communication with a
car. The police are too busy sleuthing
fishermen to interfere.
- • • • • .
“Sturt”: A man fined at Port Pine
(S.A.) as an illegal bookmaker running
a doubles-book was deaf and dumb.
* * * *
“Motu”: If every municipal council
had an A. P. Herbert, ratepayers would
get more for their money. Take that
Melbourne suburban council, wrestling
with a progress association’s suggestion
about installing an electric organ in the
Town Hall. One councillor mentioned
the grave risk involved; “there is tre-
mendous vibration from an electric organ
and the Town Hall mightn’t stand it.
A Herbert would surely have described
the objection as slanderous for the
Town Hall in question was remodelled
recently at a cost of £lO,OOO, and what
builder would have it said that organ
noises could knock down his job? After
the entertaining debate that must have
followed any hint of slander, the rate-
payers might have found themselves with
a Town Hall organ.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: May I bring the glad
news to all Australians that their birth-
stains are about to be wiped out by that
erudite volume Burke’s Landed Gentry ?
The tome stands on most county shelves
in England—“the supreme authoritative
record and reference work of the ancient
and distinguished families of the United
Kingdom,” its publisher modestly calls his
volume in a friendly “personal appeal”
to me:
Your family as a distinguished Overseas
Collateral Branch should not be left 9ut
of the forthcoming Commonwealth edition
of Burke’s Landed Gentry. .. .May I
appeal to you earnestly to complete the
enclosed pedigree form now... .May I point
out that this is your last opportunity to
secure your copy? Only enough copies are
printed to satisfy advance orders.
When the noble gent, began to write to
me some months ago he was preparing a
“Coronation” edition, but copies were
just as scarce, his appeal just as earnest.
However, he now has “185 prominent
Australian families on record.” And it
appears that to secure my copy it is essen-
tial for me to fill in the application form
now and enclose five guineas. I wish I
had five guineas.
*
“Wings”: Biggest handicap on modern
trans-ocean flights is the enormous gal-
lonage of petrol the ’plane is obliged
to carry. Yet there are other fuels in-
finitely more powerful and quite neg-
ligible as regard bulk. Take nitro-
glycerine. A single gallon would prob-
g £ou s r . el ? gined -plane righ ,
roU nd the globe. One drop would de-
vel as uch power as 1 gallon of
£ But> o£ c oL irsc, the risk of ex-
plosion by concussion puts this fuel out
CO urt But can’t that risk be over-
com£? ' The S afebreaker who boils
~ - te tQ o bta.i n “soup” overcomes
fi an ger of premature explosion by
• • “ SOU p” a dose of pure alcohol,
thirty years ago, when aeroplanes first
began to fly, Edison made the suggestion
us j n g a fuel based on nitroglycerine
a§ a p ro p U f s i V e: said that but for his
j ncreas j n g age he would have made the
matter a su bject of experiment,
* * * *
“Leon”: I came across a new word
other day in the window of a city
magazine shop—an American efficiency
booklet “published and ediphoned” by
jjerbert N. Casson.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: Let me record for pos-
terity that on July 24, 1938, as I clattered
in my carriage down the main street of
Richmond, N. S. Wales, meditatively
currycombing my sidewhiskers with my
gold-knobbed cane, I turned to Jessica,
delicious in crinolines beside me, and
said “Pray, my poppet, observe the sign-
board of yori hostelry, Ye Olde Bush
Inn. Let us descend, and while the ostler
attends to our good animals no doubt
mine host will favor us with a tankard
of his best. Lissen, you dumbbell, said
Jessica, what you 11 get under mat neon
sign is a wholly teetotal tankar . An
without even waiting to see e istori
Sum-tree m which Bonme rince ar i
hid from F ora ac na , £
spurs into e
back to iving s ross.
FROM THE HORSE'S MOUTH.
“ ‘You cannot win money by backing horses,’ the
proprietor of a race-tipping sheet told Judge
Cui lewis.”
Score it under for as sound an admonition
As any old Polonius kept in store,
As unassailable a proposition
As the axiom that two and two make four.
There are divers ways of raking in the needful,
Many methods the acquisitive may seize,
But (listen, all you punters, and be heedful!)
You will never make a pot by backing gees.
Assuming you’re a shrewdy, not a gaby,
With some training in the game of stocks and
shares,
There are steady pickings waiting for you
(maybe)
In the never-ending strife of bulls and bears.
Chaps have risen from the lowliest beginnings
Upon ’Change to be financial grandees;
But your deficits will always swamp your win-
nings
If your fickle fancy turns to backing gees.
You may “follow gold” and chase the ’weight
so nimble
Successfully or not, but bear in mind
The precious pea that lurks beneath the thimble
Is ever there for somebody to find.
Buying bottles, selling clothes-props round the
city,
You may reap a decent harvest of bawbees;
But you’ll never have a hope of “sitting pretty”
With the bunce obtainable from backing gees.
It’s a solemn truth. And what you overlook is,
My speculative friends, this fact so clear:
How in the world could myriads of bookies
Obtain their quantum suff. of beef and beer,
How could they regularly pay their income
Taxes and rates and what not, if you please,
Unless the splosh that’s sure and safe and
dinkum
Were won by laying, not by backing gees!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“D.E.”: Lionel Logue, the Australian
who treated King George for stammer-
ing, did a good job. In the broadcast
of the speeches at Villers-Bret. when
the memorial was unveiled the King’s
voice came over excellently. The pauses
were studied and effective ; when he was
in Australia as Duke of York they were
at times involuntary, and painful for
sympathetic listeners as well as the
speaker. The occasion moved Earle Page
to speak with some emotion, a quality
usually absent from the speeches he reads
so persistently in Australia. But far and
away the finest oratorical voice was that
of President Lebrun. I should like to have
been able to follow a speech the very
tones of which convinced one uncom-
prehending foreigner that it was deeply
felt.
“Exdig”: According to a Warminster
(England) paper that has come my way,
the ties between Australia and the Sutton
Veny camps district are being main-
tained. Anzac Day was well kept in
Warminster, for the reason that there
is an organisation of Australian ex-
soldiers there. Aussies married local girls
and acquired businesses with their brides
or made niches for themselves. They seem
a prosperous lot, anyway.
»i* 4”
“Bendee”: Reference to “Bigjohn” is
not the only anachronism in Idriess’s
The Cattle King (B. 20/7/’3B). For
example, the big Monkira bullock was
not bred by Kidman; Smith and Debney
sent that fellow to Adelaide before
Kidman knew there was a station called
Monkira. The sale of the Rochdale
cattle, the Warenda muster, the appoint-
ment of Edge, the tucker on the Kidman
stations, the wages paid managers—it's
all bullswool, a yard wide. I don’t
blame ldriess. Kidman must have been
his informant.
* * * *
“The High”: Mention of sacrilege
in connection with a spire (B. 27/7/’3B)
reminds me of the exploit of an athlete
in pre-war days at Oxford who climbed
the Martyrs’ Memorial one night and
placed an embarrassing object on top.
By morning the news had spread, and
hundreds gathered with their faces turned
towards the sky. The ladders of the fire
brigade would not reach, and the police
decided to shoot the object off with air-
guns. A sergeant opened fire, but the
shot bounced off, for the target was
enamelled tin. Six months later people
used to go furtively into stationers’ shops
and ask for picture postcards of the
Martyrs’ Memorial. The response to
those inquiries was: “Yessir ; with or
without?”
* * * *
“Topsman”: Permit me to reprimand
Frith or whoever deserves it for glaring
inaccuracies in his illustrations to “Ride
’Em, Cowboy” (B. 27/7/’3B). In one
drawing he has a Hollywood cowboy
leaning over a bar at which a woman
is serving. The chivalrous American of
the wild West never had any objections
to keepers of saloon-gambling-joint-
dancehall establishments importing and
maintaining gangs of “dancing partners”
for their customers, but they would have
S k ? 1 ,, 0 A h u nged an '' ol ’ e Putting a
lady behind a bar lo serve drinks. In
a second sketch a hanged man is do
picted with his feet held” a, tight ansfe
to his legs in the normal position when
alive. Writer has seen quite a few hang-
ings and has assisted in two, and has
always been struck by the fact that a
hanged man’s feet hang straight down
in a line with his legs, as if the ankle-joint
had never existed. Perhaps some of The
“There you are, Prendergast—two hours thirty-five minutes. Beat that!”
Bulletin’s tame sawbones will tell us
why.
“Fior”: Tell Such that he’s trans-
gressed one of the most sacred laws of
the sea in his picture of a cook’s galley
(B. 27/7/’3B). The knives in the rack are
crossed. If the Captain Macpherson of
the story Such was illustrating had en-
tered the galley the cook would have
gone out instanter.
* * '' *
“Bramble Cay”: That extension of the
Queensland boundary in Torres Strait to
within a few yards of the New Guinea
(now Papuan) foreshores (B. 20/7/’3B)
is an outstanding example of highway
robbery, or at least “larceny by finding.”
N.G., save for the Dutch end, was a
nebulous sort of British protectorate.
When Queensland found that the shallow
waters between T.I. and Daru were rich
in pearlshell the boundary was promptly
run out as stated, there being no one
to protest. This was the cockroach in
William MacGregor’s soup when he took
over the administration of British New
Guinea. Not only was his stonybroke
Government deprived of the right to
exploit its own waters, with Daru as a
flourishing G.H.Q., as he had hoped, but
he found himself helpless to deal with
the raiding Tugeri tribes from Dutch
New Guinea, which periodically swept the
s.-w. coasts of B.N.G. in their great fleets
of canoes, as long as they kept within
the Queensland boundary, as they usually
did. B.N.G. was then a Colonial Office
show and had to keep hands off the
territory of a sovereign State like Queens-
land. The early reports of the last of
the proconsuls give some lurid details
of these raids and even more lurid com-
ments on the apathy of the Queensland
Government, which regularly refused him
the right to interfere.
* * * *
“Arbor”: Some tree-lovers may be
bucked up over the planting of two small
poplars in Sydney’s Martin-place, but to
me it looks like cruelty to plants. There
are four little Lom-
bardy poplars flank-
ing the doorway of
a 15-storey building
in Bligh-street. 1
suppose they some-
times see the sun,
but it must be a rare
experience, and the
trees in the brick-
and-concrete canyon
that is Sydney’s
heart will be even
more pitiable. This
rus in urbe business
can be overdone.
It’s overdone in my
subbub, where trees,
tree-ferns and flow-
ering shrubs have
been planted about
four yards apart on
the footpaths. The
shrubs and ferns
have spread, despite
constant cutting-
back, to such an ex-
tent that the residents traipse along in
single file, and the trees are continually
being attacked by men with tall ladders
and pruning-shears on the ends of poles,
who endeavor to prevent the vegetation
coming in contact with power-lines and
telephone-wires. Trouble is that the
people who laid out Sydney streets —city
and suburban —mostly had no thought
of tree-planting or they’d have made
footpaths and roadways a lot wider.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: If the scientific black-
trackers don’t catch a few bushranging
diseases with the new German micro-
scope which magnifies 30,000 diameters,
it will be the surprise of the century.
Hitherto, about 2000 diameters has been
the practical limit. It is announced that
a screen will be needed to display mag-
nifications ; which sounds reasonable,
since a straight line one-tenth of an inch
long under it would expand to 83yds.
and the edge of a sheet of the thinnest
printing paper would become over 4ft.
wide under expansion.
* * t. *
“Ancient Rhymer”: The death of C. J.
Dennis deprived the Retired Poets’ Club
which I propose forming of a prospec-
tive member. Within recent years “Den”
had practically ceased his rhyming acti-
vities, although there was a time when
he was one of the most prolific versifiers
in Australia. A poet who looks like
being lost to the club is veteran E. J.
Brady, who has taken up his pen again
after a long spell. However, I should
be able to obtain a quorum for the in-
augural meeting. Invitations are being
sent to “Banjo” Paterson (he should
make an excellent president), Roderic
Quinn, Bernard O’Dowd, Arthur Bayl-
don, Randolph Bedford (writer of much
good verse in his young days), Will
Ogilvie, Peter Airey (“P. Luftig”), Shaw
Neilson, C. H. Souter (“Dr. Nil”), Hugh
McCrae, James Lindo Webb (“The
Waif”), Louis Esson, E. N. McCulloch
(“O. C. Cabot”), Bernard Ingleby (The
Bulletin bard who slept with an
elephant) and S. W. Jephcott. I am wait-
ing for the statutory period to expire
before approaching such comparative
youngsters as Leon Gellert, Vance
Palmer, H. M. Green, Edwin Gerard
(“Gerardy”) and Father Hartigan (“John
O’Brien”), all of whom appear to have
stopped stringing verses together. The
club will have to do without “Dryblower”
Murphy, of Westra-
lia, and “T. the R.,”
of The Bulletin,
who, despite their
years, continue to
produce verse in un-
diminished quantity
and quality.
* *
“Stoo”: Are the
Maoris Eskimos? In
a book about the
good ship Bear that
used to prowl about
the North Pole 1
struck a sea-chantey
extolling the charms
of the Eskimo ladies,
and along with such
words as igloo it had
“waheney,” meaning
woman. Either the
Maori w ahine,
meaning the same,
so impressed the
men of the sailing
ships that they car-
ried the term round
the world, or the
people across the
Tasman have bur-
rowed their way
through from
Alaska. I await igloomination on the
point.
❖ : i : 5k
“J 2”: If anything is more depressing
in Sydney than that jobbers’ yard known
as Circular Quay it is the crowd of idlers
that daily fill in time w'atching a few
workers tinkering with a big overdue
job. Something of the same thing must
have struck Governor King in the year
1806, for he issued a general order in
July of that year that “all persons loiter-
ing about the wharf [the Quay] will be
put to hard labor for the rest of the
day.” His Ex. was of a frugal mind
where the expenditure of public money
was concerned. When the framing,
lengthening and planking of the Quay
wharfage on the eastern side had been
completed he issued an edict that the
inhabitants of Sydney were expected to
cart material to the job and do the
filling in.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: “The great Zangwill
conception of a new Zion” is men-
tioned in a “S. M. Herald” article. Actu-
ally Israel Zangwill, though a Zionist,
was not one of the founders of the move-
ment ; and when, losing hope (the Zion-
ist dream seemed very hopeless at the
time), he formed an association, the
1.T.A., aiming at settling the Jews wher-
ever land could be secured, he became
anathema to strict Zionists. They would
have nothing but Palestine, and refused
to co-operate with the Powers which,
stirred by an outbreak of pogroms in
Russia, had decided that something would
have to be done for Jews threatened with
massacre. Zangwill’s association pro-
vided the Jewish co-operation. Britain
provided the Uganda settlement, not a
conspicuous success, and Jewish colonies
were established in South American
States and in South Africa. Zangwill
was in correspondence with Alfred •
Deakin about a N.T. Jewish settlement,
but a change of Government shelved the
matter.
“Alf's always been a dashin' lover; ’e swept Millie orf ’er feet when
’e first saw ’er fifteen year ago!”
AIDS TO MEMORY.
“Tlu Mi-h Commissioner for Eire in London,
Mr. .1, i). Jhilanly. advising those in difficulty about
Hie pronunciation of the Irish Free State’s new name,
said: “if you think of Sarah, then drop the ‘S and
you’ve got it.”- — Cable.
If the Gaelic you are weak in, or the Erse that
Paddies speak in,
Here is something on your memory to
impress,
How the latest name propounded for Hibernia
should be sounded:
You need only think o’ Sarah when you re
puzzled over Eire,
Think o’ Sarah —and eliminate the “S.”
Though your knowledge be but scanty of the
language of Dulanty,
Here’s a pointer any Sassenach should sec:
Never lyrist can acquire a rhyme for Mary or
for Myra
In this eyrie of Valera —and ’twould be a gross
chimera
To make Eire sound like Vera, sans the “V.”
Take your tickets upon Sarah ; you need never,
never spare a
Thought for any other cara you have met:
Thus it is you’ll nail the nimble pea beneath
the baffling thimble.
To ensure correct recital of the Green Isle s
latest title
Only concentrate on Sarah —and you’re set.
Note, my brother bards who scramble up Par-
nassus’ side and gambol
With the Muses, more effectively or less,
When your faith you next aver in Eire that so
long was Erin,
And you can’t help feeling slightly dubious
if you’ve got it rightly.
Think o’ Sarah —and eliminate the “S."
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


??
10 for 9d...20 for I'6
CRAVENA
Ifoull apmeciatt ttufo
00
-rfq verity!
•••••
E 1869
THROATS
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE
POLITICAL POINTS
There are said to be 17,000 Jews in
East Willesden, and the Labor Opposi-
tion put up a Jew, Orbach, for a by-
election held on Thursday. At the general
election Orbach got 15,523 votes, and a
“Liberal” 3217, the Conservative’s total
being 25,613. With the “Liberals” giving
the by-election a miss, Orbach’s score
was reduced to 12,278, the Chamberlain-
ite winning by nearly 4000. Evidently
Jews in Willesden, as elsewhere, have
more use for appeasement than for a
Russian alliance and a crusading war.
The Reddest —or, anyway, the cheekiest
—Trades and Labor Council hangs out
in Adelaide. It says, in effect, it won’t
help Australians to defend Australia un-
less there is “an immediate military alli-
ance between all non-Fascist countries.”
Let Labor accept without hesitation the
inescapable truth that Fascism must be
fought with the tools of the jungle. This
is brutal logic.
No, it is sorry fustian ; and it helps to
explain why a people with a tradition of
self-reliant Australianism sent nine (9)
pledged Labor members to their 39-
member Assembly last March.
Melbourne is spawning all sorts of
political organisations. Latest appears
under the title of the National Action
Front, and s it has Twelve Points. This
is one:
The continuance of the falling birthrate
means the doom of the Australian nation;
it is of grave national importance that the
women of Australia be given every help
and encouragement to populate this country.
Tom Pinch described himself as “a re-
spectable young man aged 37.” The
leader of the National Action Front is
described as a respectable young man
aged 24.
The alleged County Council which sells
electricity in Sydney and some of the
suburbs has “an advertising department
which costs us £2452 a year” in salaries
and the like. Nevertheless, it places its
advertising through agents, and it has
decided to let the agents attend to radio
as well as newspaper advertising. The
deputy g.m. (the g.m. and other em-
ployees are abroad) explains that he once
thought the advertising department
“which costs us £2452 a year” should
handle radio blah, but he had “had the
courage to change his mind.” The gentle-
man’s “courage” will, of course, be
charged up to the customers. Australians
are debited with a formidable amount
for that sort of “courage.”
Sydney “D.T.” lays down the terms
on which it will admit Russia to the
comity of nations.
The vicious drive for self-sufficiency must
be replaced by a sane policy of external
trade.
The Russian people must be freed from
the propaganda machine that pumps them
full of hate and arrogance and militarism.
Our mistake; the requirements are de-
manded of Germany and the German
people. To the “D.T.” Russia is one of
“the democratic Powers,” and as proof
of the giant strides the Revolution is
making in its 21st year it reports that
they are introducing taxis in Moscow.
Taxis, mind you!
“When Herr Hitler offered a naval
treaty in which Germany was to be re-
stricted to an agreed level bearing a fixed
ratio to the British Fleet, he made a not-
able gesture of a most practical kind in
the direction of peace.” Thus Chamber-
lain. In a candid moment “S. M.
Herald” has recalled that the same Hitler
came out with “a qualified proposal for
a Western air pact,” and suggests that
“the failure to pursue it” was “per-
haps” one of the “grievous mistakes
made by the victorious Powers in their
dealings with Germany.” There is no
“perhaps” about it.
A young negro from a Tennessee uni-
versity, in Australia on a debating tour,
proudly mentions that “all America was
pullin’ for Joe Louis” in his recent fight.
It seems to be true, and it illustrates the
profound change that has come over
American feeling since Jack Johnson was
champion. Communists claim the greatest
share in the transformation.
“Positive action against Japan,” an-
nounced in Australia last October as
“In reply to numerous critics of his Government’s banking proposals, Mr. Lyons said at
Cairns that no decision had been arrived at. Before a decision was reached the whole
subject would be submitted to a meeting of both Government parties.”
“My decision, ladies and gents, is ‘No decision.’”
American foreign policy, has been taken
at last.
State Department statistics of actual ex-
ports during June reveal that American
manufacturers are sending aeroplanes to
the Chinese.
But the report adds that they are sending
’planes to the Japanese also.
The Bishop of Chichester has been
thinking about us, and he has decided
that Australia and Maoriland ought to
introduce “Austrians and Germans (with
a definite proportion of Jews)” as
breeders —“to check the alarming fall in
the rate of reproduction” is the good
man’s way of putting it. He has heard
that Australia is “not producing enough
girls to keep up the supply of future
mothers.” The truth is that Victoria and
every residential electorate in the neigh-
borhood of the six capital cities have
more women than men ; but nobody now
expects Chichesters and Cherringtons to
know such things.
The northern N.S.W. coalminers,
whose Red and Pink leaders are talking
strike, are to have a ballot. Not about
the strike, but about whether they prefer
one political Labor group, Lang’s, to
another, Heffron’s. They could obviously
vote on the strike at the same time, but
the obvious never appeals in these mat-
ters.
It will take no mean slice of the last
Sydney Water Board loan to pay for
the advertising and printing bills which
the board is incurring in the process of
ordering people to use less water. Thump-
ing increases in salaries were granted to
officials who are now issuing commands
and threats to consumers as a result of
the board’s own monumental folly. Per-
haps they will come out of revenue.
In essential respects Lang is very like
the old Calico Jimmy school of Sydney
politicians to whom other parts of Aus-
tralia were foreign countries. This was
amusingly shown when he opposed the
measure designed to bring air-navigation
under Commonwealth control on the
ground that “it might hamstring the
operations of the N.S.W. Railway Depart-
ment in the event of its entering into
aviation services.” Mr. Hartigan and
Mr. Clapp are desperately anxious to put
more public money in Government aero-
planes which would have full power to
trade within State boundaries.
These Dominions are getting stacks of
advice from overseas bishops, philan-
thropists, politicians and editors as to
what they ought to do with their landed
property. The New York “Post” was
well up in the procession:
Some of the best minds and finest spirits
of Germany, Austria and Italy are in exile.
Why can’t New Zealand open its doors?
Why can’t the United States?
One result of Stevens’s “vigorous bor-
rowing policy” is a sturdy rise in the cost
of roadmaking materials, and local bodies
are bitter. The cost of building materials
has also gone soaring as a result of the
housing part of the “vigorous borrowing
policy.” Co-operative building societies
are doing the borrowing on Government
guarantees, and have speeded past the
£10,000,000 mark. Apropos, every Syd-
ney Government for 50 years has had a
“vigorous borrowing policy,” but Stevens
claims the belt for vigor.
Bailey, the Victorian Chief Secretary,
says his Government will have to alter
the film-quota law, since Australians are
not making films enough to fill the quota.
For one reason and another, public sup-
port has been lacking. Perhaps the Aus-
tralian theatre would give Hollywood a
better run for its money by means of
the spoken play, especially if it were
made a vehicle for Australian sentiment.
Australians can act and sing, which is
more than can be said for heaps of
Americans presented as singers and actors
—all too successfully by the arts of the
photographer, the faker and the press-
agent.
Says Minister Thompson, “If there is
not a marked increase in British
migration by the end of the year” his
Government will “have to conduct a
special investigation.” An investigation
that would cost nothing should be under-
taken now, and should begin with this
note in the N.S.W. Directions to Tax-
payers :
Federal income tax is levied on all in-
come derived by a resident from sources
out of Australia where that income is
exempt from income tax in the country in
which it is derived.
Special income tax is levied on all in-
come derived by a resident of N.S.W. from
any source other than income from the
carrying on of a business, not being an in-
investment business, outside N.S.W. or
interest on inscribed stock or bonds.
State Governments can’t tax interest on
Australian Government securities, though
they would if they could. Taxation of
overseas income received by sojourners
is the main reason why sojourners don’t
stay long.
“S. M. Herald” warned Japan in a
leader to look out for “the Far Eastern
Red Army, under the redoubtable Mar-
shal Bluecher”: —
This mighty force is estimated to number
up to half a million men, with perhaps
1000 aeroplanes and as many tanks; and
it is known to have accumulated huge stores
of food, fuel and munitions.
On the same page a Russian contributor,
P. F. Tchernoroutsky, surveying the
entire Red Army, said it has “about
4500 aeroplanes, but half of them are
obsolescent” ; and, though there are about
4000 tanks, “the personnel is insufficient
and the level of skill is low.” Moreover,
the “purges” are still going on (“thou-
sands of officers have been executed, im-
prisoned or dismissed”); output in all
branches of heavy industry has declined ;
worse still, the population has decreased
—from 166,000,000 in 1933 to 157,686,000
in 1937. So—
The real existence of 1,300,000 soldiers
with the corresponding army of reservists
is extremely doubtful.
It is noble of “Granny” to let a con-
tributor hit the leader-writer to leg.
One municipal-reform theory that has
been shattered in practice, though it
seems to linger in the minds of Dunstan
and his friends in Victoria, is that amal-
gamation makes for economy. Bris-
bane’s experience is that costs increase
amazingly, and Newcastle is finding this
out, too. The Mayor of Greater New-
castle gloomily reports that since a lot of
district councils were wiped out 22
men have been added to the staff, and
that reduction of the salary bill became
a matter of urgency. And though it has
been accomplished “the council is £5500
worse off than before the amalgamation.”
“M.L.”: A Melbourne chemist has in-
vented a “detinning” process—so called,
though it is applicable to scrap iron as
well as scrap tin. He has offered to erect
a pilot plant capable of handling 20 tons
a day and work it for three or six
months. The condition is that the Gov-
ernment should put an embargo on ex-
port of scrap if at the end of either
period it has been demonstrated to its
satisfaction that the industry proposed to
be established is economically practicable.
So far, Canberra is not interested.


PROOF OF THE PUDDING.
“No one after actually seeing the swimming costumes for men could possibly object to them.”


NO SOAP
NO WATER
NEEDED.
Shave Electrically
Of the 2,000,000-odd Schick users
NOT ONE has ever received a cut
or scratch from a Schick Electric
Shaver. Schick CANNOT scrape. No
raw faces —No shaving preparation.
Just plug in and actually ENJOY
shaving with a Schick. Price, £5/10/-.
Factory Representatives:
E.T.C. INDUSTRIES, ETD.,
470 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
H
ELECTRIC
DRY
SHAVER
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WILL SHARE AND COMMODITY PRICES HOLD?
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING
SURVEY OF METAL MARKETS
MINING DEVELOPMENTS ALL FIELDS
August Issue On Sale Saturday.
PRICE 2\- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
YVynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Eife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEM S
Death has taken E. G. Lascelles, a
distant cousin of the Earl of Harewood,
Princess Mary’s husband, on his Queens-
land station which lies on the sea coast
near Proserpine. He was a grandson of
the third earl, and his mother was a
daughter of the Earl of Mansfield. He
came to Queensland in his early days,
and married twice, his first child by his
second marriage to a daughter of John
Taylor, of Rockwood station, being born
when he was well on in his sixties. A
son by the earlier marriage went to the
war with the sth Light Horse, and finally
was returned wounded from the R.F.C.
There used to be other members of the
Lascelles family in Australia —one was a
schoolmaster in Central Queensland.
G. M. O’Dea, g.m. of the S.A. Gas
Co., made his mark in tennis long be-
fore he became one of the big men in
the gas-purveying business. He repre-
sented S.A. in- inter-State tennis tourneys
G. M. O’DEA.
for 20 years, and still wields a swift
racquet, though latterly he’s taken to golf
as well. Fifty-five to-morrow, he had
12 years with the Adelaide S.S. Co. be-
fore joining the staff of the gas co. in
1913. Born at Jamestown, S.A.
Percy Outridge, one of Australia’s best
known pearlers, has passed out at Red-
land Bay (Q.) at 75. As a lad B.Ps. sent
him to Thursday Island, and there he
soon acquired such a knowledge of the
pearling business that James Clark, the
pearl king, made him manager of his
fleets. Outridge retired to Redland Bay
in 1901 and had lived there since.
The financial implications of slum re-
clamation and rehousing schemes are to
be largely the concern of J. N. O’Connor,
51-year-old chairman of the Vic. Hous-
ing Commission, over future opera-
tions of which State Assemblymen are
still puzzling. Chairman O’Connor has
26 years’ Taxation Department experience
behind him ; he was assistant Vic. com-
missioner when he was transferred last
March to the housing body. Prior to
1923 he was in the Federal taxation ser-
vice and had a couple of years in Hobart
(Tas.) as assistant deputy commissioner
for the Speck. He came originally from
Vic.’s Mirboo North, which was the place
where the Yankee sailors who visited
Melbourne in 1905 were taken to ex-
perience the thrills of transport by
bullock-dray. He’s got the cheerful sort
of face that should go with a name like
his, and admits that he didn’t take much
interest in sociological problems until he
was appointed to his present post.
Lieut.-General Ernest Ker Squires,
newly appointed as Inspector-General of
Australia’s army, will be a commanding
figure in more senses than one, standing
6ft. 4in. in his socks. Son of a clergyman,
he was born at Poona, India, and entered
the Army via Eton and Woolwich with
a commission in the Royal Engineers.
Fought through the Great War with the
Indian Expeditionary Force in France
and later in Mespot., and came out with
two wounds, five mentions in dispatches,
the M'C. and the D.S.O. A succession
of staff positions, culminating in the job
of Director of Staff Duties at the War
Office, has occupied him in post-war
times. He got his major-general’s badge
three years ago.
The choice of Walter Runciman as
British emissary to settle Central Euro-
pean problems has its humorous side,
since his realm has always been the ocean.
Runciman is a Puckish-looking politician
as to countenance, but he has a first-
class brain. He has gained all his great
skill in negotiation and the management
of conferences in the toughest part of the
international shipping world, which
deals largely with S. American
trade. His father built the Runciman
fortunes into the millionaire class.
The son has been president of the
British Chamber of Shipping, of
the International Shipping Con-*,
ference (in 1926), is a director of
the Westminster Bank and has
twice been President of the British
Board of Trade, once in the early years
of the war and again from 1931 to 1937.
He was made a viscount when he left
the job. He will be the oldest man in-
volved in the Czechoslovak business. He
is 68, but full of energy.
G. H. Mackley, general manager of
Maoriland’s railways, who has been
attending a conference of Australasian
Railway Commissioners in Sydney, is an
all-round railway man, unlike his imme-
G. H. MACKLEY.
diate predecessors, H. H. Sterling, who
came from the railways law office, and
R. W. McVilly, who was drawn from
the clerical side. Born in Fernland 50
years ago, Mackley had his education in
his native land, and his promotions in the
railway service came slowly but surely.
His appointment was popular with the
first division men, and they’ve had no
reason to reconsider their opinion.
Frith here pays his parting tribute to
Larry Tibbett in plasticene. Tibbett, who
LAWRENCE TIBBETT.
Modelled by Frith.
winds up his Australian season this week,
has endeared himself to audiences in the
centres he has visited by reason of his
matey manner. There never was a front-
iank tenor less addicted to snootiness and
snobbery, musically or in other relations.
A good showman, and, as his country-
men would say, a regular guy, this breezy
American takes away with him the best
wishes of all who heard him sing.
Some August birthdays:
Q’land’s Gov. Wilson, 62, Justice Halse
Rogers (N.S.W.), 55, Coadjutor-Bishop Dixon
(Bris.), 69, and Prof. Robt. Wallace (Vice-
Chancellor, Syd. Uni.), 56, on Ist; S. H. Smith
(formerly N.S.W. Director of Educ.), 73, on
2nd; merchant-knight Wallace Bruce (Adel.),
60, Air Vice-Marshal Williams (Vic.), 48, on
3rd; H. E. Holt, M.H.R. (Fawkner), 30, on
sth; former Gov.-Gen. Isaacs, 83, knight
Robert M. M. Anderson (Syd.), 71, E. A.
Southee (Hawkesbury Agric. Coll.), 48, S.A.
Senator George McLeay, 45, and poetess Marie
E. J. Pitt, on 6th; poet E. J. Brady, 69, and
knight Lennon Raws, 6Q, on 7th; knight E. T.
Fisk (A.W.A.), 52, Fed. Commerce Minister
Earle Page, 58, and H. W. Champion (Papua),
58, on Bth; N.S.W. Lieut.-Gov. Philip Street,
75, W.A. Premier John Willcock, 59, on 9th;
Speck’s former C.J. Nicholls, 70, and Hugh Mc-
Conaghy (chairman C’wealth Tariff Board), 61,
on 11th; knight Keith Murdoch (Melbourne
“Herald”), 52, on 12th; Jock Garden (Sydney),
56, on 13th; prof. Morris Miller (Speck), 57,
and knight Fred Stewart, M.H.R., 54, on 14th;
Bishop Baker (Ridley Coll.), 56, and novelist Erie
Cox, 65, on 15th; poetess Mary Gilmore, on
16th; former Speck Senator Payne, 72, on 17th;
Frank Anstey (former M.H.R. for Bourke),
73, and Prof. J. D. Stewart (Syd.), 69,
on 18th; Prof. Laver (Melb.), 72, on
20th; poet Will Ogilvie, 69, on 21st;
Judge Curlewis (N.S.W.), 69, and
former N.S.W. Min. of Agric. Hugh
Main, 55, on 22nd; Prof. F. A. Bland
(Syd. Uni.), 56, on 24th; Fed. Chief
Justice Latham, 61, and W.A. Senator
MacDonald (Fed. Assistant Minister),
46, on 25th; Bishop Ash (Rockhamp-
ton), 56, Prof. T. R. Lyle, F.R.S.
(Melb.), 78, and Prof. W. A. Osborne
(Melb.), 65, on 26th; Justice Dwyer
(W.A.), 63, Prof. Angus (St. Andrew’s
Coll., Sydney), 57, and Archdale Park-
hill (Syd.), 59, on 27th; Vance Palmer,
53, on 28th; Fed. Treasurer R. G.
Casey, 48, on 29th; R. Ewing (Fed.
Taxation Com.), 67, and Ambrose
Pratt, 64, on 31st.
Well-known to Australians is the com-
modore of the Orient line, Sir Charles
Mathieson, who retires this month, after
half a century at sea, at the age of 65.
In recent years he has commanded suc-
cessively the Orontes, Orvieto, Orsova,
Ormonde and Orama. After an appren-
ticeship in sailing-ships he joined the
Orient line 35 years ago. In war-time he
commanded Ql9, sank a submarine and
saw his own ship sink as it was being
towed back to Plymouth riddled by shell-
fire. He was appointed A.D.C. to King
George V. in 1931. His knighthood came
from the present King, and was a
Coronation honor.
John Griffiths, of Newcastle, N.S.W.,
founder and head of a well-known con-
diment-manufacturing concern, dead at
86 as the result of a fall in his factory,
was born in Wales. Went to work at
eight as pitboy in a colliery, working 12
hours a day. Very sensibly, when he got
a little older, he migrated to Australia,
soon got some capital together and
started business as a storekeeper at
Minmi, N. S. Wales. In 1895 he set up
a factory at Newcastle. Five of his sons
are partners in the business.
Among the Yarraside architects who
have helped to transform Melbourne’s
skyline in the last 15 years few have con-
tributed as much as 47-year-old Marcus
Barlow. After Brighton Grammar he
served his articles with Grainger and
Little, which later became Grainger,
Little and Barlow, and is now simply
Marcus Barlow. Temple Court was his
first big city job—his office is there to-
day—and he has since added such
Collins-street buildings as the Manchester
Unity and Howey Court to his long and
still-growing Melbourne list. He was on
the Housing Investigation and Slum Abo-
lition Board, and is now consultant archi-
tect to Vic.’s Housing Commission. A
thoughtful, well-read citizen, he still finds
MARCUS BARLOW.
time for some week-end golf. His father
was a Flinders-lane man.
The resignation of Alexander George
Wales from Vic.’s Leg. Council, in which
he represented Melbourne Province, fol-
lows an allegation in the Assembly by
A. G. Allnutt, of Mildura: “I find that
he is a shareholder in the Hardware Co.
of Australia, and that his company holds
certain Government contracts. In the
‘Government Gazette’ No. 52 five con-
tracts are mentioned, and in No. 260
seven contracts are mentioned as being
held by the firm.” He added that there
were only nine shareholders in the Hard-
ware Co. Section 24 of the Constitution
Act Amendment Act disqualifies from
Parliamentary membership any share-
holder in a company of fewer than 20
that holds Government contracts. The
rule, as in this case, sometimes presses
hardly. Wales, who received a K.B. in
the last Coronation distribution of
honors, was born in Richmond and edu-
cated in Melbourne. He has been a
member of the Melb. City Council for
13 years, and was Lord Mayor from
1934 to 1937.


o* e
a \e^ eT
' t >, < >V‘
J« 6t AvV^® 4
„r C9^®
$J6 T
M'
\x^ft
-ns NV
i\\e
6»'
,vo e
<J» 6
e Vv°' N
do^
t\\e
VJ.tt e
A\^ e
ivaO» a
t\ve
Wet®
«*'s&*s&*'**' ***
,w>>
c\v^ e
\ do«°
THE GREATEST MARKET
For the BEST in AUSTRALIAN
LITERATURE AND ART
For 58 years “The Bulletin” has offered to Australian and Maoriland writers of prose
and verse the opportunity of expressing themselves in its pages at rates nowhere
equalled in the Commonwealth. Not a line of “syndicated” overseas matter has
ever appeared between its pink covers. It is a paper produced by Australians for
Australians; it has pioneered a style of journalism copied to varying extents in
almost every quarter of the globe.
Barcroft Boake (“Surcingle”), Lawson, "Banjo” Paterson, Daley, Dyson, Dennis,
Goodge, “Steele Rudd,” Edmond, Rod Quinn and David McKee Wright were of the
older school of “Bulletin” writers; you can be one of the present-day school.
"The Bulletin” of to-day draws its stories, humor, verse and paragraph contributions
from every corner of Australasia, and, in addition, it has a staff of critics, sub-editors,
leader-writers and financial and other experts. No country in the world of similar
age or with so comparatively small a population has produced such a literary,
political and financial force as The Bulletin. It is the national Australian news-
paper —“Half Australia writes it, all Australia reads it.”
“The Bulletin” owes as much to its writers, past and present, as those writers owe to
“The Bulletin.” For some years, as an encouragement to writers-in-the-bud as well
as to writers of more mature experience, “The Bulletin” has sponsored several
competitions in which prizes have generally been offered in addition to the space
rates paid as a matter of course. The Humorous Story, Short Story and Verse
Competitions are examples. Then there have been the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
for Australian novels, which brought forth All That Swagger among many other
fine novels, and the “Bulletin” Novel Competition which produced “A House Is
Built” and "Coonardoo.” A Youth Competition brought to one young chap £5O
for an essay, and to another young fellow a job on The Bulletin. The latter
young man is now touring the Northern Territory on Bulletin service in company
with the Parliamentary party.
AND NOW
£lOOO IN PRIZES
A new series of “Bulletin” competitions is now open, for
which prize-money of £lOOO has been allocated.
SHORT STORY COMPETITION
£7O first prize, £l5 second, £lO third, a prize of £5 for best brief story, in
addition to payment for every entry published. To commence immediately.
“THE OTHER FELLOW S MIND”
Prizes every week, with special £lO bonus for the best entries each three
months. Commencing immediately, and the sooner contributors start sending
in the better. #
LIMERICK COMPETITION
£4O first prize and 10 prizes of £l each, to be awarded fortnightly, for
the best line to a limerick. The first limerick will be published in “The
Bulletin” on August 1 7 and 24.
NO ENTRY FEE TO ANY COMPETITION.
For full particulars see this week’s Red Page in
A
N
a ’’
*****
,-pO* V^";^e v . e „„et,
!,.<** 10
', #^e'< e *«* b *
V V*^o^V^e-
&S A ***** ve
ttv^ e 0
hot,«
t^ at V'° ’
\^SlC r
-SJfSfgS
.A v»'^
!a n
a ; Vo V** e^ eT We c 0^ v v
4 '- ov
»*«rs4^
\tf c V S°>
S
ct°
*V- v,e
rsfr***** x »***
Y».
**
V>«ss* a
vev ,
g°° d
a»
> •
Vto
tuc’
:\>e T
tja^
’ o \ As
oo
V»
iot e -
-9 <”"! v>t>« W «ey wS B '.
e aO e> ....
v " e - wt '°: „ wW ,>-
o **'
’etc YiVoca
The Novel Which Won the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize for 1936
■
•nr-
HY
MILES FRAN KLIM Jk|
.•'v'' 'TTT, ... .... ' .' - *aj
WOL.M
oguoas Pratt.
Chapter f.
?
EMORY recaptures a song or two echo-
ing wistfully through the generations o!
Delacy in the voice of old, fearless
Danny. He was wont to rune to
himself as he sat alone, thrust aside
by his sons as childish, his eyes glazed
with absence —that retreat of the aged
when time has wrung me colors from the present and
left the rose and green only on the distant fields of
youth
“Oh, moi! Oh, moi!” he would ejaculate,
conversing to himself. Rarely was there an under-
standing listener. When there was he would use
her to make his talk becoming as he gazed backward
mm a nag 10 appeal in the hunts. The acytei
Honona had lately opened her husband’s eyes.
“Helping you, is it!. Have ye seen his eyes light
on our Johanna?'*
Pretty Johanna was mistress ot the dairy, and
could turn the heel of a sock with the best
“The Devil mend him! I’ll break the young
spalpeen’s back.”*
“Father O’Fogarty shall say a special word to het
on her duty.”
“A Prodestan, and him with nothing to his back
—will have to gp for d soldier belike.”
* '“He talks more of going to the antipodes.”
u The sooner the better! Kevin O’Gorman, with
a phroperty near as good as me own. waiting for her
to say the word.”
‘True? Why, this is the printed word I’m
reading. You can depend on it as if ’twas from the
hook of Ballymote. Listen to their aims-
‘To induce respectable and virtuous families among
the industrious ranks of society at home to transfer
their capital and labor from an arena where the whirl
of competition stand* formidably in the way of success-
ful exertion, to a .field where not competency alone,
but certain fortune.can hardly fai| to reward the efforts
of cpreful, peraeverjng and. honorable toil*
Certain fortune! Think, of it! A man would be
driving his carriage, with high-steppers like the
Thomonds, before you could turn round.”
"Ah, ’twould take too long, I’m thinking," s«.id
Johanna dubiously. “Me aunt Delia, on me father’s
side, had a letter tljat jcame .from Shamus O'Tooley,
who wint out after the rebellion, and it was full of


ABORIGINALITIES
“There you are, sir. The cops won't know you now.”
“K.C.”: It was about four in the after-
noon during the horse-breaking on a
nor’-west W.A. station when the swaggie
arrived. He was a lanky, awkward-look-
ing chap with about a week’s growth of
ginger stubble on his rather blank-look-
ing face. A hefty black horse had been
giving a lot of trouble, and the manager,
with a wink at the boys, asked Ginger,
“Can you ride at all?” Ginger modestly
admitted that he could stick on a bit,
and was promptly invited to try the
black horse. By the time he had sur-
vived nearly a minute’s vigorous bucking,
the boys were enthusiastically cheering
him, and his sudden shout of “Take
those rails down!” was answered
by prompt action. As man and horse
shot through the open gateway, the boys
(including the manager) loudly bawled:
“Stick to ’im! Stick to ’im!” “My oath,
1 will!” shouted Ginger—and it wasn’t
until the sun went down that it dawned
on a blasphemous manager that he’d
seen the last of his horse.
* H= * *
“No. 1”: Few laymen are aware that
the symptoms of native malaria, of the
species frequently contracted in Papua,
are almost identical with those of lead-
poisoning. The point was drawn for-
cibly to the attention of a friend who
went north to instal an electrical generat-
ing plant, and was invalided home.
Doctors are still arguing the point, and
heavy compensation hinges on the final
verdict, for the victim was working with
the heavy leaden plates of a storage bat-
tery when the ambiguous symptoms de-
veloped. Malaria, of course, is merely
an ocupational risk in the tropics, while
employers are liable for the misde-
meanors of their plant.
:S * si! si:
“Ayjay”: When first seen the bunny
was half-hidden in the grass alongside a
barbed-wire fence. Bill fired his shot-
gun from about 50 yards distant, and the
rabbit sprang in the air—and stayed
there. Bill, who is a teetotaller, blinked,
rubbed his eyes, pinched himself and
crossed his fingers as he went to investi-
gate. The rabbit was caught by one ear
on a long, sharp barb ; and there wasn’t
a pellet-mark on him!
Hs # He *
“Hamer”: There were only two pubs
in Bullswool, but Kelly, of the Commer-
cial, was proud of his supremacy and
what he called his coo-seen. In the
dining-room there was a row one night,
and a newcomer went out blasted by the
roars of Kelly, who took his seat later,
still breathing indignation. “He asked
if there was roast beef and boiled mutton
and caper sauce and roast lamb, and
what entrees there were. About 20 dif-
ferent things he asked about! ” said
Kelly. “He must’ve taken this place for
one of them cheap Sydney resterongs.”
£ $ * *
“Salmon Gums”: “Best place I’ve ever
struck for echoes,” said Dungaree Dick,
“was a spot in the Darlin’ Ranges just
outside of Kalamunda. Me an’ Hellfire
Jack was roundin’ up some brumbies
wot was troublin’ the orchardists. There
was some snappy stuff among ’em, havin’
bin bred from a thoroughbred mare
that’d gone bush years ago. There was
one mob led be a little bay stallion we
ad some trouble with. We got ’em goin’
towards a run-in we’d fixed up, an’ we
thought we ’ad ’em, but suddenly they
wheeled an’ dropped outa sight down a
slope. When we gits to the edge we sees
’em headin’ for a big rock outcrop on
the other side, an’ we knoo they ’ad the
legs on us in that goin’. I reckons it’s all
up, but Hellfire suddenly brings ’is whip
down with a crack. I thinks it’s just ’is
temper, but starve the lizards if them
brums don’t turn sharp an’ come streakin’
back an’ heads straight fer the run-in!
Y’see, Hellfire’d noticed a big rock just
be’ind ’im. This picks up the echo an’
sends it rockin’ ercross the dip ter that
other big outcrop, just in front o’ the
brums, wot it ’its with a crash. Cripes,
them nags must’ve thought the daddy of
all stockw’ips was up there waitin’ fer
them.”
He * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: But Australia
has a maggot-supply-for-fishermen indus-
try (B. 29/6/’3B), located near Adel-
aide. Breeding is done in sheep’s heads,
obtained from a near-by slaughterhouse ;
when the maggots have reached full size
the operator dons gloves, picks up each
head by the snout and shakes the
wriggling contents into a bucket. The
heads are then burned, the maggots
placed in tins of bran and taken to city
fish-tackle depots. I learn that there is
only one way in which to breed a really
high-class “gentle,” and that is to boil
a stale but not rotten egg, remove a
small portion of the top and leave it
standing upright for a week. “It breeds
real beauts,” the operator stated, show-
ing me a sample lot, and I had to agree
—they were almost as big as caterpillars.
He was going to add more detailed in-
formation, but I left —I d had all 1 could
stand.
J|.
“Naturalist”: Don't remember ever
seeing a ringtail, or any other brand of
possum, with the damaged and mutilated
ears “Murrungurry” (B. 13/7/ ’3B) speaks
of. As the ringtails, like the big black
possum, belong to the short-eared species,
a warring brother would find insufficient
lug to grab hold of. Moreover, short
ears, which give the vine-trippers any-
thing but a friendly expression, indicate
the breed’s bad temper. There is even
something unfriendly about their chuckle,
which is gruff and throaty. Incidentally,
the ringtail is the most difficult of all to
snare. If the noose is too large he
creeps through it, if too small he hops
over. A steel spring-trap catches him
occasionally, but generally it is only a
bunch of belly-jiur that the setter finds
in the trap in the morning.
# * *
“Lyndo”: There is one weather prog-
nosticator available to anyone who has
space for the large grey outdoor spider
common in suburban Sydney. Several
of them dwell in their huge webs round
our verandah, and a glance at them will
usually suffice to decide if it is necessary
to take an umbrella. Our present
weather-gauge, known as Ivan the Ter-
rible on account of his size, in calm
weather sits on the rail like a dappled
piece of grey mud, apparently uninter-
ested in anything but an occasional
victim that gets tied up in his web. When
suddenly he springs to life, dashes into
the web and begins to feverishly absorb
it, we take in the washing and shut the
windows on the weather side. Ivan never
deceives us. He spins mainly at night,
undeterred by a bright light near by,
and when recently we noticed him sud-
denly stop and begin to fold away the
web we knew a blow was imminent. He
didn’t bother to mend a badly-torn web
after one sudden windstorm ; 'that meant
another was due any moment, and it cer-
tainly came. Just before a monsoonal
deluge Ivan disappeared, but fine weather
brought him back to his old haunts to
spin with renewed energy.
* * * *
“Walkagee”: “Skull Creek’s” canine
nitwit (B. 20/7/’3B) which rounded up
sheep instead of bringing help had a
cobber in Larry Jenkins’s spaniel. Larry
was out felling trees one afternoon when
he slipped and broke his leg. Calling
the tyke, he tied a note to its collar and
shooed it off in the direction of the
town two miles away. Three hours later
the animal returned with Larry’s mail
from the post-office and a copy of his
paper from the local newsagent. The
note, undecipherable with mud, was still
attached to its collar.
* V * *
“Salmon Gums”: Always had a mighty
fine respect for old Sol, and I’m warm
in praise of his health-giving properties.
But will someone tell me: During win-
ter in the Westralian wheatbelt a flesh-
wound that is allowed free access to the
dust and “clean” dirt of the fields will
heal rapidly. The same treatment during
the summer leads just as rapidly to pro-
longed festering. Why?
t- * *
“H.A.L.”: For years I’ve been watch-
ing gangs of “Southern Europeans” at
work, and I reckon it’s time we stopped
growling about them and copied some
of their methods. The old notion that
they “live on the smell of an oil-rag”
has gone by the board. I’ve often carted
out their stores for them, and, beyond
olive oil, macaroni and onions in quan-
tity, their tucker is no different from that
of any other bush worker. And they
won’t take on a contract unless there’s a
clear four or five pounds a man per
week in it. In my S.A. district tenders
were called for grubbing some yaccas.
An Australian was lowest, and got the
job, but chucked it on the second day,
so Italians were called in. They cleared
the paddock in quick time and earned
£6 a week apiece. Where they score is
on team-work. Giuseppe and co. will
always go at the job in a mob, armed
with levers, and the way they can shove
big logs into heaps is worth watching.
* * * *
“Komediak”: Well, there’s someone
who thinks Australian place-names
romantic. A prospective buyer, I was
informed by a car-salesman that their
models this year were artistically ducoed
in “two new and sophisticated colors,
Coolangatta cream and Oodnadatta
beige.” After elephant’s breath and
other exotic shades, it’s a relief to come
on something with a dinkum Aussie
touch. Still, I’d like to see the Answerer
to Correspondents’ comment on any bud-
ding author who rhapsodised on the
Coolangatta creaminess of his heroine’s
complexion!
* * * *
“King Cyril”: That pfeller “Euro” (B.
20/7/’3B) him yabber about it boomer-
ang. Him quick pfeller greased lightning
rush ahead, quick pfeller turn round,
slow pfeller come back. S’pose you
catchum boomerang rush ahead cuttum
off hand. Catchum come back that
budgeree pfeller no hurtum. Mine bin
cuttum off head belonga black pfeller
crow. Him no see it coming, only hearum
wind. Boomerang him turn back,'cocka-
too him duck, squawk, fly away. Boom-
erang miss, come back very slow pfeller.
This one king catchum alia same feather
soft pfeller sit down.
* * * ♦
“James W.” : I’ve seen only one case of
telegony in horses. Dandy, by a draught
stallion from a mare that years before
had thrown a mule to a donkey, had the
build of a mule in detail but unmistak-
able donkey coloring. All the mare’s pro-
geny thrown during the intervening years
were “straight” horse. In dogs, how-
ever, telegony is not only common but,
following indiscriminate mating, is prac-
tically certain. One case, out of dozens,
occurs to me. The drover who owned the
forementioned Dandy was taking a long-
pedigreed cattle bitch for the attentions
of a grand champion of the same breed.
On the way she listened to the blandish-
ments of a huge mongrel whose family
escutcheon showed traces of everything
from rhinoceros to squirrel. The pups, no
two alike, were decidedly of the Heinz
type. In three efforts since, all in co-
operation with pedigreed cattle-dogs, she
has produced in all 17 pups, and devil a
one of them even looked like a cattle-
dog.
* * * *
“J. Eustace”: Put me through to “Wil-
liami” (B. 13/7/’3B), please. Heard Mrs.
Nextdoor calling excitedly, “Oh, grocer!
Don’t let your dog come in with you,
or my cat’ll tear him to pieces. The
last dog he went for had to be destroyed,”
and the grocer’s drawling reply: “He can
look after himself, missus.” Knowing
Mrs. N.’s cat, I drifted to a position of
vantage and watched the unsuspecting
foxie frisking past the high tankstand
on which the puss crouched. Suddenly
there was a flashing streak of brown-
and-white fur and a wild mix-up of
slashing claws, snapping teeth and legs,
ears, hair and dust. Then the cat
stretched slowly out, his earthly troubles
o’er, while foxie disdainfully sniffed the
corpse.
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: No mystery about a
stone delaying the boiling of water (B.
20/7/’3B). Being a conductor of heat,
it steadies up the process naturally. But
why does a bright new billy, with no
crusted soot to insulate the water, take
so much longer than an old one? For
it does —try it yourself.
DOWN THE MURRAY.
(A “pram” is a type of rowing boat much
used in the Riverina.)
I reckon every kind o’ cove knows just what
he would do
If he was free t’ live his life the way he
wanted to.
You’d see ’im makin’ north f’r Cairns or out
t’ Bribbaree,
Or headin’ in t’ Sydney town or down t’
Winchelsea.
But if y’ wished t’ find a cove about my
diagram,
Y'd spot him rowin’ slowly down the Murray
in a pram.
I've seen some bonzer places as I’ve knocked
about the land
Wherein a man could spend his days until he’d
played his hand:
The Noo South coast, the Tassie hills, the
famous Darlin’ Downs,
Warm an’ lazy Wimmera lakes an’ cosy little
towns.
But none of ’em could hold me long—a whaler
born 1 am
T’ dream of rowin’ slowly down the Murray in
a pram.
I had me thoughts o’ big success an’ money
in the bank;
Got dirty hands through pullin' strings, an'
handled things that stank.
Somehow I can’t be cobbers with the mob that
chases quids;
They know it, too, an’ soon, be cripes, they’ll
have me on the skids.
But I’ll thank ’em, dinkum, for it, an’ I will
not give a damn
When I’ve gone rowin’ slowly down the Murray
in a pram.
I wish I had the bloomin’ words t’ tell y’ how
I feel
About that windin’ river that’d bear me care-
less keel:
The sandbars golden in the sun, the silent gums,
the camps,
The current chucklin’ past me oars, the stars
above like lamps,
The big cod leapin’ in the dark an’ failin'
with a slam
Beside me, rowin’ slowly down the Murray in
a pram.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Yokain”: Bush unionism! He was
cooking his breakfast, but things weren’t
going too well. When the bacon caught
fire his temper got the upper hand, and
he threw the frying-pan out the window.
A minute later the kettle boiled over,
and he flung that out, too. As he did
so he upset the porridge-pot, and with a
mighty oath he sent that to join the
other kitchenware. For a second he
surveyed the mess in speechless fury ;
then his eye fell on the teapot, the only
unoffending utensil. “Out you go too,
yer cow,” he roared, “fer scabbin’ on
yer cobbers!”
:]c * * *
“Hanko”: After seeing what a wom-
bat did to a supposedly “badger”-proof
fence in Gippsland (Vic.), I’m convinced
it is the strongest animal of its size in
Australia. Inspection showed that the
’bat had burrowed till he’d got his head
under the trenched netting, after which
he simply uprose and walked into the
vegetables. And just to prove that the
breaking-and-entering was no fluke, the
blunt-headed one had waddled out at
another point, leaving the fence a sorry
tangle of concertina’d netting and
skittled posts.
“Gilgia”: Wombats are certainly
strong. I once lugged an old male home
and put it in a concrete-floored and
galvanised-iron-walled sty with two prize
Berkshire sows, intending to improve
the wombat breed. Next morning the
ruined sty was as free of pigs and
wombat as my employer was of curses
when he’d finishing reviling me.
**s . *
“Roly”: I’ll always believe unusual.
explanations of fires after this. I took
with me to the rifle-range a bottle of
water, which I put down by the car
when we went off to the shoot. After
finishing the 300-, 500- and 600-yards
ranges I came back to find that the sun
(it was in N.Q.), shining through the
bottle, had ruined one of my tyres. There
was a good smell of burning rubber by
that time.
'A' ij»
“Old-timer”: Old Mac, having sold
his Wimmera (Vic.) farm and gone into
the Riverina in search of wheat
land, was being shown round a property
not far from Berrigan. He liked the
place, and began haggling about the
price, finally sticking on a figure from
which the vendor tried in vain to shift
him. “Why,” said the agent, butting in,
“look at that creek, Mr. Mac; that’s
worth at least fifty quid.” Old Mac gave
the brook a jaundiced look. “Yeah,” he
snarled sarcastically, “what if it is? I
don’t want the blank creek ; if Mr. Anon
’ere don’t want t’ chuck it in with the
joint he can blanky well take it away
with him.”
H*
“Mine-Tinkit”: A patch of pineapples
were a long time fruiting on a cow-
cocky’s farm near Townsville (N.Q.). His
young English bride was getting im-
patient. “What’s wrong with them?”
she asked a farmhand. “Oh, they’re ripe
long ago ; you have to dig them up. They
fruit underground,” he told her. A
wrathful husband listened to a tearful
explanation as he surveyed the excava-
tions.
* * sfc *
“Sou’-west”: “Anthropo’s” Tasmanians
(B- 6/ 7/ ’3B), cornered in what is now
Victoria, might have escaped to the West
had the Nullarbor Plain been in its present
condition. But at the time of their tragic
end it was a vast inlet penetrating well
up into the centre and right into West-
ralia nearly to where Kalgoorlie now is.
And this sea rolled until comparatively
yesterday. We know, by the Nullarbor’s
a< £ ?*■ soi ! an d consequent lack of trees,
sufficient time hasn’t yet elapsed for de-
composition of the rocks, by which pro-
cess soil is slowly formed. Further proof
is to be found in the salt lakes of south-
eastern W.A. Really relics of the de-
parted sea, these lakes grow a samphire
grass little different from that found in
“Hey, you! I Wasn't ready!”
sea-swamps hundreds of miles distant,
indicating that any noticeable modifica-
tion of the salt-lake samphire has yet to
take place. Thus it may be only 1000,
or even a bare 500, years since the Nul-
larbor lifted to the sun. And what caused
its vast area, after tens of thousands of
years of submersion, suddenly to spurn
the sea is something that passeth human
knowledge.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: I shared a room at
an outback pub with Finicky Fred. A
dripping bathroom tap near by annoyed
him, and he said he must fix it before he
could sleep. He went off with a lighted
candle and his alarm-clock. When he
came back I asked why he had taken
the clock. Fred didn’t reply at once.
He cocked his head and listened. I could
hear the tap still dripping. “You didn’t
manage to stop it,” I remarked. “I didn’t
try,” he answered. “But I fixed it so I
can sleep in peace ; it was out of step
with the tick of me clock before.”
“Nor-west”: Rodgers, up
from Perth on a motor tour,
was an earnest devotee of the
New Nakedness, and not a
little scornful of Old Jack’s idea
of a tropical rigout. Jack, in
addition to full-length pants and
blucher boots, wore two shirts,
one of them flannel, and a bat-
tered felt hat. Rodgers was
reduced to tennis shoes, khaki
shorts and a sleeveless cellular
cotton singlet. Hats he scorned.
“Hard as nails” was his slogan.
Thrusting through the jungle to-
wards the Daly (N.T.) in search
of a spot of barramundi-fishing,
Rodgers, muglike, brushed a
tree-ants’ nest, and about
1000 of the green-and-yellow
devils descended in a shower.
A nigger would have jumped in
the hope of dodging, but
Rodgers was a bit slow. And
he was showing nearly as much
unprotected skin as a nigger.
But he did jump—a second
later. With 1000 fiery needles
digging in he made for the
river, but stopped on Old Jack’s
warning of “Crocs.!” So there was no-
thing else for it but to strip to the buff
while Old Jack wiped off the demons
with the singlet folded into a ball. Old
Jack took it all pretty cool; with his
armor of cloth a few hundred tree-ants
didn’t trouble him much.
* * * *
“Brud”: We were having so much
success in shooting the rats as they ran
along the wallplates and rafters of our
feed-shed that they decided to “dig in”;
so out came the cyanide-dust gun. A
kookaburra snapped one up as it scur-
ried before the poisonous fumes, but
couldn’t keep quiet about it, and soon
a dozen or more mates joined in the
fun. As one perched in a near-by acacia,
a big rodent in his beak, another jacko
flew over, grabbed the prey and swung
beneath the rightful owner, who had,
after a minute or more, to relinquish his
hold. These tactics were repeated on
several occasions, and each time the
swinging bird won.
* * * *
“Naturala”: I often wonder who was
the first egotistical human that decided
that the lower animals possessed no
power of reasoning and acted merely by
instinct. Given full range of the vege-
table garden my pet magpie, caught as a
fledgling, had no knowledge of the edi-
bility of green peas until he or she saw me
pick a pod, open it and eat the contents.
Now, when the pods are filling, Mag has
to be locked up, otherwise there would
“Welcome home , Cap'n Trethivick!”
“Thank 'ee, boay ; but what be ’ee doin' away from the mine at this
hour?”
be few peas for us humans. The same
with radishes. Mag saw me pull and eat
one; now in radish time one needs to
keep an eye on the beds or find dozens
rooted out and pecked at. And could
anyone offhand suggest anything more
unlikely to fill a wild magpie’s menu than
the two beforementioned vegetables?
“Hanko”: Hopping unconcernedly
among the plants (any one of them ideal
cover for a stalking cat) our song-thrush
eventually espies a snail which he medi-
tatively focuses from as many angles
as there are turns to his head. Satisfied
with this initial scrutiny, he jigs forward
and again considers the gasteropoa.
Heartened by the close-up, he darts in,
grabs it, and scuttles to a hard surface
whereon he smashes it for swallowing.
Good work this, but each time I see a
song-thrush hunting for snails in the
garden I wonder how it has kept from
going down a cat’s throat. Its alertness
to danger is minus.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: The great stamina of the
average bush-blackfellow is not surpris-
ing, considering the severe tests the boys
go through. A weakling has little hope
of reaching the third bora degree. A full-
blooded aboriginal who can‘t give the
sign of the third bora is no class, any-
way. One in the Paroo country, a big
healthy buck who had been reared with
whites, was practically an outcast. Hav-
ing escaped the initiation rites of the
tribe, he was barred from the councils,
and no gin would marry him. According
to their standards, he was not a man, and
never would be. Another, on Tomki,
Richmond River (N.S.W.), who had been
reared by a squatter, was in the same
pickle. Black boys reared by whites are
regarded by their own people as low
class, like half-castes.
* * * *
“Bucko”: I leave railtrack-walking
(B. 29/6/’3B) to others. Fishing without
luck near the railway bridge across the
Hunter at Maitland (N.S.W.), the cobber
and I decided to cross the bridge to
save a long walk. Half-way across it
the rails commenced to vibrate under
our feet. There was nothing for it but
to climb on to a pier and hang on to
a sleeper while the long goods passed by.
Judged by my aching muscles, it took
about an hour and a quarter.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: Old Jimmy’s adven-
ture (B. 29/6/’3B) was mild compared
with what nearly happened to Higgsy
back in the early days of the Ivanhoe
G.M. With additions to the plant being
harnessed to the boilers nearly every
week, steam-power was overloaded, so
that when we came in at 8 p.m. to attend
to the long-delayed cleaning-out of a
30ft. Cornish flue we were told to work
to a finish, which meant about 4 a.m.,
and then knock-off. But Higgsy always
was a pointer, and about 2 a.m. he spread
some bags on top of the flue at the far
end and lay down. Presently, despite the
tapping of our other five hammers, he
dropped off to sleep—unknown to. us
others of the cleaning gang. Another
hour saw us finished and half-dead with
want of sleep (we had worked all the
previous day on the usual condenser-
cleaning), so we crawled out and left it
to the night engineer and the Jugo-Slav
firemen. Taking our word that every-
thing was 0.k., the engineer lost no time
on inspection, but quickly bolted on the
sludge- and man-hole doors, after which
the foreman fireman set the hot-water
pump going. To fill this boiler occupied
about an hour; it was nearly completed,
with the firebox charged and ready to
light, when our foreman arrived back.
He had been aroused from bed by
Higgsy’s missus making anxious inquiries
as to the non-homecoming of her lord.
Yes, Higgsy was still in the boiler, well
awake, but having only his bare hands,
quite unable to make those outside hear.
Just as well his wife missed her Higgsy!
THE RAP.
It’s crook to listen to sheep new-shorn
Bleating when rain sets in;
An’ the row when the cows get into the corn
Hurts y’r ear like a kick on the shin.
There’s many a sound that ain’t so kind,
But a man ain’t reelly been stung
Till he raps at the flamin’ tank to find
That he’s down to the bottom rung.
Y’ll chew the rag when the blowflies sing
Sweet on the last o’ the meat,
Or the hail comes down with a clang an’ a ring
An’ knocks hell’s bells in the wheat.
There’s many a sound y’ can call to mind
That’d call a cuss to y’r tongue,
But the worst’s when y’ rap at the tank an’ find
That y’re down to the bottom rung.
Y’ll yell when the wombats burrow the spuds
And the foxes settle the lambs,
Or the seasons prove a succession o’ duds
An’ y’ lose the best o’ y’r rams.
To use some language y’ll feel inclined
When the puppy turns out a mong;
But it’s crook to rap at the tank an’ find
That y’re down to the bottom rung.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


mi
‘ m
' ■-
>' j
m
V ■
THE HALL MARK
of Banking Practice
SOUND AND PROGRESSIVE
MAINTAINING A TRADITION OF OVER 103 YEARS
OF COURTEOUS AND EFFICIENT BANKING SERVICE
{The liability of the members is limiter!)
Wipe the Slate Clean/
Pay all those bills this
common sense way/
Nothing gets you down more
quickly than money worries. Overdue
payments; excuses to creditors; stretch-
ing every penny; doing without things you
need—these are the things that demoralise
and discourage. Perhaps YOU are in
i
1 1
i
i
r
this critical position? Then banish those worries now!
YOU CAN GET MONEY
to pay all those bills, privately, quickly and without
embarrassment on terms that satisfy common sense,
from The New South Wales Mont de Piete Deposit
and Investment Company Limited. You can easily
arrange a loan on Furniture, Pianos, Radio Sets, or
Sewing Machines, etc., without losing possession.
The Company
does not accept
assignment of
wages as security,
nor does it em-
ploy outdoor rep-
resentatives. All
business is invari-
ably transacted at
the Company’s
registered offices.
Advance £lO, repayable 5/- W’kly.
Advance £2O, repayable 7/6 W’kly.
Advance £3O, repayable 10/- W’kly.
Advance £5O, repayable 15/- W’kly.
Advances also made on Jewellery of all descriptions,
Diamonds, Precious Stones, Modern and Antique Silver
and China and all classes of portable security. No charge
made for inspections, valuations or preparation of docu-
ments. No deductions whatever. You receive the full amount.
the NS W MONT DE PIETE
D. tr I. COMPANY LIMITED
THE ALL-AUSTRALIAN ORGANISATION
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Same Side as David Jones’. Telephone: M 6465
PAID-UP CAPITAL: £300,000. FRED C. SMITH, Gen. Mgr.
Branch Offices; 347-349 Pitt St.; Tel., MA2901. 18 City Road (opp. Grace Bros.) ; MA4568.
5 Station Avenue, Hurstville; LUIOO4. 164 Church St., Parramatta ; UVV976I.
Newcastle, Ceasnock, Wollongong, Goulburn and other States.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
Added Capital
Net To Re- and Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 42,214 10 p.c. = 33,375 8,839 558,544
New capital, £44,000 .. .. 602,544
Share premium, £ll,OOO .. .. 613,544
1929.. 47,935 10 p.c. = 40,000 7,935 621,479
1930.. 39,758 10 „ ~40,000 621,237
. Loss.
1931.. 4,053 3 „ „ 12,000 605,184
Profit.
1932.. 12,795 3 „ ~ 12,000 795 605,979
1933.. 19,315 4 „ „ 16,000 3,315 609,294
1934.. 31,738 6 „ ~24,000 ) „„ fils 0 0,
Provident fund, £2OOO f 0,7 d& 610,662
1935.. 47,372 7 p.c. = 28,000 1
Provident fund, £2OOO [ 13,872 628,904
Staff bonus, £3500..
1936.. 51,514 8 p.c. = 32,000 ]
Provident fund, £2OOO J-14,514 643,418
Staff bonus, £3000.. J
1937.. 54,745 8 p.c. = 32,000 ) „ n
Provident fund, £2OOO \ 20 ’( 4 ° Cfi4 ’ 103
Provision contingencies written
back. £5OOO 669,163
1938.. 62,686 10 p.c. *= 40,000 1
Provident fund, £5OOO ) 13,686 682,849
Staff bonus, £4OOO . . J
* Includes 2 p.c. diamond jubilee bonus.
The Mercantile celebrated its diamond
jubilee by handing the staff £4OOO and
sending out a 2 p.c. bonus with the 8
p.c. div., making 10 p.c. for the year. It
was toward the close of 1877 that A. H.
McCulloch, having a lot of clients’ fire
business to attend to, decided that it
would be a good thing to form a mutual
fire office locally to handle the risks.
He approached G. A. Mansfield and
George Hardie, who both agreed, and
the Mercantile was registered January
10, 1878, with Hardie at the head of the
board table and Kelso King in the
manager and secretary’s chair. Kelso
King was knighted, and became manag-
ing director (which post he still holds,
together with a number of other director-
ships) in 1929, when Selwyn King, who
has now had 45 years’ service with the
co., stepped into his uncle’s place as
general manager.
Good progress was made from the
start, thanks partly to a rigid selection
of risks, and a run of juicy divs.,
sweetened with occasional bonus issues,
were handed out. Steady expansion of
the business (now spread throughout
the Commonwealth, with agencies in all
parts of the world) lifted paid capital
from £lO,OOO at the start to £125,000 in
1919, and to £400,000 (£152,250 of it had
been transferred from reserves during the
35 years to the end of 1928) 10 years later.
In 1914, when the American life cos.
pulled out of Australia, the Mercantile
bought the Mutual Life of New York’s
premises in Martin-place for £122,000,
and sold them 12 years later to Colonial
Mutual Life for £250,000. At the same
time it bought a freehold a few doors
round the corner in Pitt-street for
£BO,OOO, and put up a fine new 12-
storeyed headquarters with plenty of let-
ting space (soon taken) thereon.
For the 27 years to the close of
accounts in 1930 divs. averaged a shade
over 14 p.c., or a wink under 10 p.c. for
the last 10 of them. Then came slump
and the evaporation of insurable values,
aggravated by unsatisfactory London
marine business, and the div. dropped to
3 p.c. for ’3l and ’32. It has since
climbed steadily, thanks chiefly to con-
tinued economic recovery and partly to
withdrawal from the London marine
market and the management’s tight hold
upon controllable outgoings.
During the last term premium income
sprang £60,636, reaching £619,274, of
which £324,679 (up £41,804) went out in
reinsurance, leaving the gain in net
premiums (£294,595) at £18,832:
Net Ex— Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate
1900. . £32,658 £9,068 £18,489 27.7 p.c. 56.4 p.e.
1920.. 177,683 67,212 94,083 37.8 „ 52.9 .
1928.. 389,950 211,676 160,894 54.3 „ 41.2 ,
1929.. 362,167 198,925 143,963 54.9 39.8 „
1930.. 362,202 194,895 157,446 53.8 , 43.5 „
1931.. 297,000 191,393 138,560 64.4 ,| 46.6 „
1932.. 243,280 130,130 122,558 53.5 ~ 50.3 ,
1933.. 232,712 110,573 122,917 47.5 „ 52.8 „
1934.. 230,060 87,192 123,211 37.9 „ 53.5 ~
1935.. 237,374 85,963 125,437 36.2 „ 52.8 ..
1936.. 250,010 91,517 128,273 36.6 , 51.3 ~
1937.. 275,763 113,760 130,825 41.2 ~ 47.4 „
1938.. 294,595 118,702 137,382 40.3 ~ 46.6 „
The loss rate was approximately 18s.
p.c. lighter, and the expense rate was
down about 16s. p.c., leaving the under-
writing surplus at £38,511 (up £7333),
equal to 9.6 p.c. on capital. Interest
and rents turned in £24,175 (up £608), or
6 p.c. on capital, making the net return
from all sources (£62,686, up £7941) 15.6
p.c. on capital as against 13.6, 12.8, 11.8,
7.9, 4.8 and 3.8 p.c. back to 1932. That
leaves' out of the reckoning £5OOO
dropped into visible reserves from a
hidden provision for contingencies. After
paying the div. and staff, bonus, etc.,
£5OOO was used to inaugurate a staff
pension fund, leaving £13,686 for re-
serves.
The market notes the chairman’s re-
marks (the bonus to shareholders must
be regarded as special to the occasion),
and prices the pound shares paid to 16s.
at 325., about the same as a year ago.
The return at 325. is 4 p.c. on air 8 p.c.
distribution, with prospects. The backing
is 345. Id. in net tangibles.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1928. 1931. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £333,750 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 237,262 202,668 159,916 187',075
Freeholds, etc. 227,181 412,968 416,649 436,702
Mortgages . . 17,822 19,256 20,246 17,094
Public securities.
etc 459,474 319,963 337,900 358,649
I look debts . 80,865 67,614 56,566 67’, 257
Cash, etc. .. 35,153 6,051 25,718 41,222
The growth of £20,053 in freeholds was
mainly on account of the new Perth
office. Public securities (up £20,749) are
worth more than their book value. When
the books closed, policy-holders could
see net tangibles equal to 231 p.c. of
the year’s'net premiums, whereas 150 p.c.
is usually considered adequate.
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 174,645 10 p.c. = 84,232 90,413 269,913
1929.. 137,898 10 „ ~ 84,232 53,666 323,579
1930.. 118.349 10 „ „ 84,232 34,117 357,696
1931.. 43,762 5 „ ~ 42,116 1,646 359,342
Written off shares in other cos., £10,000.. 349,342
1932.. 14,820 2i p.c. =21,058 343,104
1933.. 41,037 5 „ „ 42,116 342,025
Profit on sale of Consols, £B5Bl .. 350,606
1934.. 40,479 6 p.c. = 40,432 47 350,653
Surplus on realisation of assets, £12,549.. 363,202
From doubtful debts reserve, £452.. 363,654
Written off shares in other cos., £6958.. 356,696
1935.. 76,471 7* p.c. = 50,540 25,931 382,627
From doubtful debts reserve, £193 .. 382,820
1936.. 78,015 10 p.c. = 67,386 10,629 393,449
Surplus on investment, £4044 . . ■ • 397,493
1937.. 83,108 10 p.c. = 67,386 15,722 413,215
Tax provision written back, £7368 . . 420,583
1938.. 97,101 12-1*p.c.=84,233 12,808 433,451
* Includes 21 p.c. anniversary bonus.
This co. (paid capital £673,862) and
Australian Cement (paid capital £760,433)
are equal partners in Australian Port-
land Cement (paid capital £2,000,000),
the operating co. in which the two first-
named merged their interests in 1930.
The works are at Fyansford (Vic.) and
Kandos (N.S.W.). The Kandos plant
(capacity 200,000 tons p.a.) shares the
market with four other producers, plant
capacity for the State being 720,000 tons
p.a., and another co. is preparing to set
up. The only serious competitor of the
Fyansford plant (capacity was recently
lifted to over 300,000 tons p.a. by
installation of a new 100,000-ton unit) is
Goliath, of Railton, Tas. (capacity
about 100,000 tons p.a.). Plant capacity
of Australian Portland is thus nearly one-
half the total capacity of all plants in
N. S. Wales, Vic. and Tas. In its own
State each of the holding cos. acts as
managing agent for the operating co.
At the end of June, Kandos’s capital,
together with its reserves and £7155 com-
ing to sundry creditors, was represented
by shares in Australian Portland, at cost,
£1,000,000 ; cash and deposits, £112,908 ;
debtors, £50,000 ; freehold, £2lOO.
The curtain is kept drawn over the pro-
prietary’s figures, which are made up to
the end of May. During the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts continued
activity in the building trade, extension
of water-supply and irrigation schemes,
reconstruction of tram-tracks, erection of
new silos and the growing use of cement
for domestic purposes gave sales a fur-
ther 'lift. Kandos received enough to
pay its own exes, and show an extra
£13,993 of profit, or £97,101 in all, equal
to 14.4 p.c. on its capital as against 12.3,
11.5, 11.3, 4.8, 4.9 and 1.6 p.c. back to
1932. That leaves out of the reckoning
£7368 brought into the accounts from a
previous overprovision for taxation. To
commemorate the co.’s twenty-fifth birth-
day a 24 p.c. bonus was sent out with
the 10 p.c. div., making \2\ p.c. for the
year.
The market price of and yield, etc.,
from each of the holding cos. ! shares
compare as follows:
Face . Xet
Value Market Last Tan-
Shares. Price. Div. Yield, gibles.*
Kalidos .. 16/- 27/- 121 p.c. 7.4'p.c. 32/10
Aust. Cement 20/- 33/9 10 ~ 5.9 28/3
* Per £ 1 of paid capital.
On a 10 p.c. div. basis Kandos scrip at
275. would yield 5.9 p.c. For each £lOO
of its own capital Kandos owns approxi-
mately £l4B and Australian Cement £l3l
of the operating co.’s capital.
As for the current term, the outlook for
cement sales, which should get a little
benefit from increased expenditure on
defence works, is bright enough, but costs
are still on the up-grade, owing to a lift
in wages and reduction of hours in the
industry. About six months ago the
chairman of Australian Cement said the
policy of that co. was to maintain its
div. at 10 p.c. The 2} p.c. bonus paid
by Kandos last term is by no means
secure. What danger there is of com-
petition from British cement (now ad-
mitted free except for a dumping duty
to apply if the stuff is landed at less than
51s. 6d. sterling per ton) remains to be
seen.
Howards, Ltd. (Brisbane)
, Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. C p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 37,952 26 15 p.c. 23,472 14,454 161,960
1929.. 26,211 26 121 „ „ 19,560 6,625 168,585
1930.. 20,123 26 10 ~ ~ 15,647 4,450 173,035
1931.. 16,012 26 10 „ 15.647 339 173,374
Tax reserve drawn on, £2729.. .. 170,645
1932.. 9,737 26 8 p.c. = 12,518 167,838
Tax reserve drawn on, £1666 .. 166,172
1933.. 6,799 13 8 p.c. = 6,259 527 166,699
Tax reserve drawn on, £1249 .. .. 165,450
1934.. 10,123 8 p.c. = 6,259 3,864 169,314
Reserves capitalised, £26,080.. .. 143,234
Tax reserve drawn on, £1663 .. 141,571
1935.. 13,789 8 p.c. = 8,345 5,444 147,015
Tax reserve drawn on, £2490 . . 144,525
1936.. 18,333 8 p.c. = 8,345 9,988 154,513
Loss liquidation subsidiaries, £1993.. 152,520
Tax reserve drawn on, £2918 . . 149,602
1937.. 21,635 10 p.c. = 10,432 11,203 160,805
Tax reserve drawn on, £3BBB . . 156,917
1938.. 26,348 10 p.c. = 10,432 15,916 172,833
Shareholders in this well-handled motor-
and other-agency business are in a com-
fortable position. For many years the
board put aside more than was dis-
tributed. When hard times arrived, re-
ducing trade profits to negligible pro-
portions, the div. never fell below 8 p.c.,
thanks to a fine wad of investments out-
side the business which also permitted re-
turn of the handful of pref. capital and
10s. per ord. share in 1933. During the
decade to the close of accounts in 1925
£60,000 was transferred from reserves to
the share-register, and a further £26,080
was capitalised (one for three) in 1934.
The average rate of div. for the seven
years to the close of accounts in 1931
was 13.2 p.c., and for the seven years
since 8.5 p.c. Also, the £104,320 of share
capital had the support and assistance of
£172,833 of reserves at June 30 last, so


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO (Imported). Amazing
introduction. Climbs to 20ft. on trellis,
fence, netting. BEARS THROUGHOUT THE
YEAR. Yields TWO BUSHELS large (3|in.
x 2iin.), red, meaty Tomatoes per plant.
AMAZINGLY PRODUCTIVE. SOW NOW.
Government tested seed (93 per cent, in 7 days),
2/6 packet, posted. Sole Distributors, N.S.W.
Seed Co., 17a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN LIGHTNING
ARRESTERS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
10427/27 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Next of Kin.
RE SIMPSON HARRISON (or JOHN SIMP-
SON HARRISON), deceased.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all per-
sons having claims as next-of-kin in the distri-
bution of the estate of SIMPSON HARRISON
(or JOHN SIMPSON HARRISON), late of
Gordonvale, Queensland, Australia, Night
Watchman, deceased, who died at Cairns,
Queensland, on June 2, 1928, intestate, are re-
quired to send in written particulars of their
claims to the PUBLIC CURATOR, Brisbane,
Queensland, the administrator of said estate, on
or before January 1, 1939. AND that after
that date said administrator will proceed to dis-
tribute amongst the persons entitled, having
regard only to claims of which he has had
notice prior to distribution.
DATED this 25th July, 1938.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Public Curator.
Engage
1 si-
should be
accompanied by an
ASSURANCE POLICY
Act wisely young man l
Assure yourself with the
Equitable Probate and Gen-
eral Insurance Co., Ltd., and
you’ll be fulfilling your ob-
ligations for all time.
EQUITABLE
PROBATE a N .
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
S l# „ Mouse, Angel Place. Sydney
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne
K - V. PERKINS. General Manager
TIME holds the Key to
Old Court Cellars
mn
R
p
pi
sg=
m
\
rort
And now Releases this . . .
Older and Better Whisky!
(Aged in Oak from 8 to 12 years)
JT’S a great whisky. Greater today than ever.
Passing years have brought to Old Court First
Quality the velvet smoothness of ageing which identifies
the perfect blend of time-ripened vattings.
Forget the price. Forget that you save by drinking this
older and better Old Court. Judge by quality alone
and you’ll quickly realise why many men who could
afford to pay much more call for Old Court First
Quality.
You’ll know it by the altered label.
Old Court
FIRST QUAIITY
a
a
j
m
X
OISTILIEO l BLINOED BY
FEDERAL DISTILLERIES PTTLT?
MELBOURNE AUSTRALIA
BET CONTENTS. 1 PINT 6 FIUIO OUNCES
AUSTRALIA'S
OLDEST, FINEST, SMOOTHEST WHISKY
the two combined need turn in only 3.7
p.c. to cover a 10 p.c. div.
After General Motors’ agency was re-
linquished in 1930, distributing rights
covering Queensland and the Northern
Rivers of N. S. Wales for Morris cars
and trucks were acquired. Later Con-
tinental (discontinued in 1936) and Nash
cars, Philco and Hollingsworth radios
and Hallstrom and ElectrlCE refrigera-
tors were added to the list of agencies.
With the help of general economic im-
provement, a preferential tariff on British
cars, and better returns from investments,
there has been steady expansion of the
co.’s earnings over the last five years.
During the last term gross earnings
(£113,445) sprang £13,922, thanks mainly
to increased sales of Morris cars, com-
mercial vehicles and radios. Exes.
(£87,097) were up £9209, leaving the de-
clared profit £4713 better at £26,348.
Taking a net reduction of £3BBB in the
tax reserve into the reckoning, the profit
was 21.5 p.c. on capital as against 17.5,
15.1 and 11.6 p.c. for the three preceding
terms. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.
As for the current term, the outlook,
especially for car sales, is not quite so
good as it was a year ago. Turnover
in refrigerators is expected to increase as
electric power becomes available to coun-
try centres. However, there is a wide
margin between earnings and distribu-
tions, and the possibility of the board
being able to hand out more than 10
p.c. if it wants to seems bright enough.
On the market buyers offer 365. for
the pound shares as against 345. a year
ago. The return at 365. is 5.5 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The backing is 535. Id.
in net tangibles.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1932. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capitali> £150,905 £104,320 £104,320 £104,320
sundry creditors 2,557 36,538 26,508 47,035
Freehold 66,516 66,516 66,0i6 66,596
plant, etc. .. 192 634 1,096 1,300
debts, in 2 ~ 61,178 54,290 93,975
vestments’etc. 202,236 163,960 15c,859 171,830
S^ r £ s sub ~ 54>517 3j390 _ _
cash, etc. .. le’sss ’540 23,203 919
Outstanding movements last year were
a jump of £39,685 in stocks (it suggests
preparation for bigger trading) and of
£14,971 in book debts and investments -
an untidy entry. Including stocks, the
y ear , s 8r m the mo J?/ °J A ] CSS J iquid
ha’ve a7Jr under cost,'and’
ample provisionj the chairman sayS; has
been made for contingencies.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
Dec ’ Fr f L Dividends ‘ £ serves.
1928.. 21,435 10 p.c. = 15,000 6,435 163,565
1929.. 20,886 10 „ „ 15,000 5,886 169,451
1930 ./ 9 ; 5 28 7* „ „ 11,250 L 167)729
19:n -- §.560 5 „ „ 7,500 1,000 168,789
1932.. 17,051 6 „ „ 9,000 8,051 176,840
1933.. i 3,840 7„ ,) 10)500 3)340 i8o)iso
1934.. 28,071 s „ „ 12,000 16,071 196,251
Reserves disappear, £107,677 .. 88,574
1935.. 13,533 9 p.c. = 13,500 33 88,607
7936 " 18,196 9 ” ” 13,500 4,696 93,303
1937*. 7,660 10 „ „ 7,500 160 93,403
1938,> 15,037 12 |/x months 50 ~ 89,750
t Including 21 p.c. sesquicentenary bonus,
This co.’s vessels ply daily between Syd-
ney and Newcastle, and have done so
since 1891, when the present co. was
formed to take over the businesses of
the old Hunter River and Newcastle S.S.
cos. Owing to competition from rail,
road and air transport, the board recently
decided to gradually relinquish the co.’s
passenger service, and a new 1262-ton
cargo steamer, the Mulubinba, was
ordered and took up the running in June,
1937. So earnings now depend mainly on
the length of manifests, which in turn is
governed by the state of industrial activity
at Newcastle, where commencement of
wool sales a few years back and the recent
sharp quickening of output by B.H. Prop,
and others in the heavy industries have
considerably increased the volume of
cargo offering, thus offsetting, or largely
offsetting, the effects of changed business
conditions on the coalfields.
For the dozen years to the end of 1929
(before the sickness in the coal trade be-
came acute) a steady 10 p.c. was paid,
sweetened with £20,000 of bonus scrip
in 1920. Slump brought the rate down
to 5 p.c. in 1931, since when it has
climbed steadily, reaching 10 p.c. again
for the June half of 1937, when the date
for ruling off the books was altered from
the end to the middle of the year.
After allowing £7265 for depreciation,
as against £10,199 for the preceding six
months and £12,750 for the year before
that, the board figured net earnings for
the year to June 30 at £15,037. This was
10 p.c. on capital, compared with 5.1
p.c. for the June half of 1937 and 12.1
p.c. and 9 p.c. back to 1935, when
£107,677 which the board said had been
accumulated to cover depreciation was
taken from the pile of general reserves
and deducted from the book value of
assets concerned. To commemorate Aus-
tralia’s 150th anniversary, a 2} p.c. bonus
was added to the 10 p.c. div., making
p.c. for the year, reserves being
drawn upon for £3713 for the purpose.
On the market the price of the pound
shares fluctuated between 445. and 495.
during 1937 and between 41s. 3d. and
445. since the beginning of 1938. Last
week-end the figure was 425. 3d., at which
the return would be 5.9 p.c. on a 12| p.c.
distribution, or 4.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. Obviously the market expects the
10 p.c. div. to be maintained, but doesn’t
expect the bonus to be repeated. The
backing is 31s. lid. in net tangibles.
During the year a small property at
Phoenix Park, Hunter River, was sold ;
vacant land adjoining the co.’s Pyrmont,
Sydney, wharf, was leased from the Gov-
ernment, and a store and hoist to handle
steel cargoes put up thereon. The net
addition to the book value of freehold
(Continued on page 24.)


SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10*12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hcte or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms (or Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
launch from 13 noun (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
LUDOWICI LEATHER BELTIHG
■
mm
f
Gives many years of Trouble-free Service
Ludowici Leather Belting of all types gives long
life and absolute dependability even under the
most difficult operating conditions.
Made from Ludowici tanned and matched first-
grade leather, and with all joints and plys water-
proof cemented, every Ludowici Leather Belt is
guaranteed replacement free against defective
workmanship and material. Made and guaranteed by
I. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 York Street, Sydney
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
ORES—Try O. T. GEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders. Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company, Limited, 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills,
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammers,
etc. Write to us for particulars.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
SoI^Aj»iit«^JOUBjjr^^^JOUBERTJPTJ^-TDj|
mil]
ii
mm
BEST^
BRITISH
BLADE
n
6
and leasehold was £3513, and plant, etc.,
£2210:
! December f June \
1933. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Capital . . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities . . 9,895 19,673 15,255 16,511
Ship property 187,242 99.577 132,344 126,444
Freeholds, etc. 15,279 1,650 5,163
Plant, stores, etc. 9,287 5,209 6,394 8,604
Book debts .. 13,509 20,591 20,002 19,681
('onsols, cash,
etc. . . 120,008 142,700 105,828 103,969
The more or less liquid surplus (£107,039
= 14s. 3d. per share) was £3536 lighter
than at the previous balance. The fleet is
reported in good order and condition, as
usual.
New Zealand Perpetual Forests, Ltd.
Because the majority of bondholders
in this and other forestry bond-selling
ventures did not fully understand the
contract contained in their bond, mis-
understandings have arisen since the
Bondholders’ Incorporation Commission,
appointed under special statute by the
Maoriland Government, entered upon its
task of clearing away legal and other
difficulties connected with the carrying
out of undertakings to bondholders.
Indeed, J. S. Barton, chairman of the
commission, recently found it necessary
to visit Australia to remove difficul-
ties and doubts about which represen-
tations had been made to various Aus-
tralian Governments and the Govern-
ment of Maoriland.
Briefly and broadly, the position now
is that bondholders are incorporated, and
in place of their bonds hold as an exact
equivalent shares in New Zealand Forest
Products, Ltd. The directors of this co.,
elected by the bondholder-shareholders,
are men of ability who are devoting their
energies to the many difficult problems
connected with realisation of the forests.
The first step in the adjustment of
rights has been completed, and awaits
ratification of the commission. It in-
volved the compounding of the mainten-
ance agreement, whereby the new bond-
holders’ co. takes over control of the
forests and undertakes to maintain them
to maturity. This naturally relieves New
Zealand Perpetual Forests of the obliga-
tion to maintain which it previously
carried, and in consideration of this a
large sum of money is payable by Per-
petual to the new Products co.
When the compounding agreement is
finally ratified it is the intention of the
directors of New Zealand Forest Pro-
ducts to formulate a definite realisation
policy based on expert inquiry and re-
port now being made, and to disclose
the details of this policy to their share-
holders.
The next important step will be the
classification of shareholders. At present
all those who held bonds in New Zealand
Perpetual Forests now hold one £3O
share in Forest Products, Ltd., for each
bond previously held. It is obvious that
shares which represent early plantings,
say 1926-27, are now more valuable than
those which represent later plantings, say
1935-36, the difference in value being
represented by years of tree-growth stand-
ing to the credit of the earlier issues. It
will be the task of the commission to
formulate a plan of classification and
valuation of the shares on the most equit-
able basis for the purpose of placing the
different classes on a fair relative basis.
Southern Kinta Consolidated, Ltd.
This, the Empire’s largest tin-dredger,
is an amalgamation (in 1934) of six
Malayan cos.—Penawat, Malaya Consoli-
dated, Kampar Malaya, Southern Kam-
par, Kinta and Changkat—all operating
in the Kinta Valley. With the acquisi-
tion last term of 516 acres known as the
Sungei Bakol and Alor Kabong areas,
originally estimated to contain 4000 tons
tin concentrates in 20,140,000 c.y., the
co.’s Malayan interests now embrace
8409 acres, while a further 680 acres,
bored by a constituent in 1929, has
not yet been alienated to the co. In addi-
tion, a further 1115 acres of undeveloped
but mostly fully-proved ground is owned
in the Tongkah district, Siam.
Actual yardage available at Mar. 31
is not given in the report, but proved
wash is probably in excess of 400,000,000
c.y., averaging mostly a trifle under ilb.
t.o. Deep-boring of the Southern Kampar
and Changkat areas last term proved
45,000,000 c.y., estimated to contain
14,000 tons of tin concentrates, down to
130 ft. To handle this ground, a new
deep-digging unit is on order at a cost
of £220,000. Present equipment com-
prises nine bucket-dredges and one small
suction-cutter. Including the Chemor
unit, reconstructed last term at a cost of
£30,000, seven of the bucket-dredges are
modern and efficient units, having a total
annual digging capacity of 154 million
c.y. Future plans involve electrification
of the Changkat plant and modernisation
or the Kampar unit and its transfer to
the Rasa section, the Kampar ground,
though containing good values, having
proved unsuitable for dredging. The Rasa
plant, which has proved inefficient, to-
gether with the suction cutter, is to re-
main on a care-and-maintenance basis.
Owing to interruption of production
and poorer ground met, last term’s re-
coveries were 464 tons t.o. less than its
predecessor, and revenue from all sources
slipped £4407, despite better metal prices:
t —■ Dividends — N
Net. Net Per
Mar., Revenue. Outgo.* Profit. Share. Amount.
1935 f. . £247,926 £140,248 £101,678 ~/9 £96,287
1936 .. 470,206 277',775 192,431 1/- 134,637
1937 .. 561,269 354,086 207.183 1/6 198,350
1938 .. 556,862 377,976 178,886 1/3 162,395
* Including depreciation: 1935, £27,000'; 1936,
£5450'; 1937, £64,500 ; 1938, £58,500.
f 141 months.
Including £6OOO less for depreciation—
calculated at the rate of £l5 per ton of
concentrates produced and £82,000
(down £14,000) for taxation, the year’s
outgoings took £23,890 more, leaving the
net surplus £28,297 down at £178,886.
That was after dropping £15,240 from
somewhere into the reserve for renewals,
etc., now £52,340, and wanted for the
purpose for which it is earmarked.
Quarterly divs. aggregating 25 p.c.
(Is. 3d. per ss. share), as against 30 p.c.
in the previous term, were disbursed. A
first interim of 24 p.c. declared in respect
of the current term will call for £5OO
more than was earned in the period
covered—the board intends using portion
of the p. and 1. carry-forward to equalise
interim divs. this year.
Last year’s yardage was a record:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Cubic yards treated 10,035,400 13,055,000 15,659,000
Recovery t. 0., tons 3,243.6 4,200.7 3,736.9
Average per e.y.,
pound . . .. 0.72 0.65 0.48
Dredge operating
cost, c.y. . . 2.72 d. 2.70 d. 3.20 d.
Average metallic
tin, ton ■ .. £2ll/2/11 £204/15/8 £220/13/7
Domestic quota releases averaged 73.75
p.c. of the co.’s 5855-ton assessment.
All bucket-dredges were in commission,
two of the smaller plants, however,
operating for only short periods on test
runs.
For the first quarter of the current
term turnover has been 3,958,000 c.y.
for 869 tons t. 0., an average recovery of
0.491 b.
To spend £82,560 on new properties,
£51,630 on dredges and other plant, and
£25,680 on general stores, the co. sold
its holding (£165,022 at the 1937 bal-
ance) of Government securities. In
the current term the co. is committed
to an outlay of £193,650 on its new
dredge, among other capital expenditure,
and to help things along 350,924 ss.
shares are offered those on the register on
Aug. 3 at 7s. 6d., one for ten, fractions
being ignored. At March 31 the co. held
£317,804 in cash and £96,409 in other
liquids, against which, taking in the tax
provision and final div., it had commit-
ments of £216,240.
Front-rank tin counters, the 3,497,076
issued ss. shares are valued at 19s. 6d.
or so apiece by the sharemarket, which
is thus paying heavily for prospects.
H. T. Allen, president of the New
Guinea Miners’ Association, predicts big
things for New Guinea goldmining when
the proposed new road from Salamaua to
Wau goes through. Estimated cost of a
direct route (55 miles) is put at £150,000,
the whole to be met by miners of the
Wau district. Finance is to be arranged
by a 4-5 p.c. loan, interest guaranteed
by the Mandated Territory and Common-
wealth Administrations for 20 years.
Interest and redemption are to be met by
a toll on all inward and outward freight
on the field. According to Mr. Allen,
present freight charges of £2l a ton
could, with Diesel transport, be reduced
to £4 10s. a ton, plus toll. Allowing for
the latter, and on the basis of the 10,000
tons freight transported to the field last
year, this would effect an annual saying
of £150,000 —estimated cost of the road.
Consequent reduction in costs should
mean much to the development of the
many low-grade lode and alluvial deposits
that are known to exist, and should give
a fillip to prospecting, in which, Mr. Allen
says, not one person is engaged around
Wau at the moment owing to the high
cost of supplies. Gold has been shown
to exist in patches right through from
Wau to the Dutch border. Route
favored by Mr. Allen and the organi-
sation he represents is via Bulwa,
which, though longer than the direct
route, would serve a bigger area and be
less costly, passing through less moun-
tainous country. Bulolo interests have
already constructed a serviceable road
between Bulwa and Wau. Established
companies likely to benefit by the new
road are New Guinea Goldfields and
Enterprise of New Guinea, both of which
have proved extensive low-grade lodes
at Edie Creek at present uneconomical to
work.
* * * £
In Mt. Morgan’s approximate financial
year (ended June 30) 383,600 tons sul-
phides and 311,767 tons oxides were
milled for a return of 58,08 loz. gold and
2289 tons copper. In the actual preceding
financial year 322,310 tons sulphides and
97,241 oxides were put through for a
recovery of 39,5390 z. gold and 1807 tons
copper. The co. is certainly whacking
into the ore-body and pouring out the
gold now in spite of open-cut difficul-
ties. When the accounts come to hand
shortly shareholders should get an idea
of what profit is to be expected from
millings by the new oxide mill. Mechani-
sation of the mine, the conical opencut
and erection of smelters are other matters
of concern. Mt. Morgan scrip has been
firmer lately, selling at 10s. lOd. last
week.
* * *
For the six months to June 30 North
Kalgurli treated 65,870 tons for a return
of £221,145 Aust. —average 675. 6d. a
ton. Costs ran to 28s. a ton, exclusive
of development and other capital out-
lay—£26,3ll altogether. In the whole
of 1937 133,265 tons was milled for
£454,760 Aust. —68s. 2d. a ton. Costs
were a few pence higher than the average
so far this year. The co. continues to
broadcast cheerful developmental re-
ports. The last, to July 15, shows that
in the north-east drive, No. 3 level, ore
assaying 20dwt. a ton was being broken.
Similar values have been obtained in the
south drive, No. 7 level. On the recom-
mendation of the board, shareholders
voted a bonus of £6OO to the mine staff
and employees. Some other London-
controlled Westralian goldmining cos.
annually vote a bonus to the staff, but
this is the first time the miner has been
given anything.
With its new mill, which started up
in November last, in full swing, a sub-
stantial advance in the earnings of Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie (W.A.) is expected.
In the Iron Duke and Oroya sections
7803 ft. of development, exclusive of
diamond-drilling, was done last year, and
ore reserves increased by 95,300 tons,
making 338,000 tons in all.
* * * *
For the financial year ended June,
Edna May Amalg. (W.A.), which com-
menced crushing towards the end of
July, 1937, won 3711 fine ounces gold
over the plates from 11,713 tons, a re-
covery of 6.3dwt. The sands have been
stacked for future attention. It is a high-
cost show ; actual figures aren’t given in
monthly returns. The co. is at present
opening up the Central lodes.
* * * *
At De Bernales-controlled North Kal-
gurli United (W.A.) major interest now
centres in developments on No. 4
level, where the south drive on the down-
ward continuation of the east lode has
disclosed values averaging approx, lldwt.
over 45 inches. The board says these
improved values justify faith in the mine
at depth.
:I: * *
Fifteen Westralian State batteries
crushed an aggregate of over 9000 tons
of ore during May for gold bullion
valued at £40,000. The mill at Ora
Banda treated two rich lots, one of 44
tons yielding 730 z., and the other 10 V
tons for llloz. Nearly 2} million tons
of ore has been treated by these mills
to date for an extraction of close on
£10,000,000 worth of gold.
From London: At March 31 last
gold holdings of the Exchange account
and Bank of England combined
amounted to 119,389,000 fine oz., worth
£835,723,000 at £7 sterling an oz. Metal
in the Exchange account was 42,546,000
fine oz., and in the issue department of
the Bank of England 76,843,000 fine oz.
The gain in gold held by the Exchange
account was 2,692,000 fine oz. compared
with the previous half-year. That held
by the bank was unchanged.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
D.Y.F.: Position fully explained in “ ‘Wild
Cat’ Monthly,” posted under separate cover....
N.C.P.: (1) Know nothing of the patent or
those associated with it. (2) Shares look like a
gamble at long odds A.T.: At present prices
Q.B. seems to be the better buy J.C.S.: (1)
Co. not yet earning regular bonuses for policy-
holders. (2) Dividends nowhere in sight. (3)
No open market for the shares... .G.L.: No
record Penworth, Ltd N.D.: (1) The bonds
have been converted into shares, which are not
listed. Write secretary N.Z. Forests Products,
Ltd., Shortland-street, Auckland. (2) Scrip,
covered by net tangibles with a book value of
14s. 5d., is not listed. Write secretary Pacific
Forests, Ltd., 19 O’Connell-street, Sydney
M.F.H.: Estimated return a guess, which is not
worth much... .L.W.V.: A swap into C.S.R.
and Morris, Hedstrom should turn in more in
the long run, with better chances of capital
appreciation.


A
iki
II
J.,
M
Established 1808.
Investments in Australasian Securities
Exceeds £1,200,000.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W. '
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
• D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
SMOKE-OH!
“Sober industry leads to success.”
—Business college advt.
What about publicans?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The issue is one of peace or war.”
— “S.M.H.”
Or mailed fist v. pacifist.
4* 4* 4* 4*
When a motorist engages a train in a
race to a level-crossing the result is often
a dead heat.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Movements in metals, at the present moment,
are very quiet.” —Mining journal.
Scrip-buyers are resting on their ores,
as it were.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Hollywood’s latest surprise is the unseen|
player.” —“Labor Daily.”
Film fans eagerly await the advent of
the unheard “blues” singer.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The man of note always appeals to women,”
says a woman’s paper.
But not as much as the man of notes.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Death Takes Hand in Game of Cards.”
— “Sun.”
The last trump.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The inclination to join the civil service seems
to run in families.” — “D.T.”
So much for the medical belief that a
proneness to somnolence is not
hereditary.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Firemen formed a guard of honor at a recent
Melbourne wedding.”
There was no escape.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“An overseas cheese expert says that Gorgon-
zola should be turned over after use.”
Just to hear the other side?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The Dominions should not ask for favors,
but should give bargain for bargain.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
Now, Gran, you know what fights there
are over bargain-sales.
“ 'O w Was I t ’ know it Was quick-dryin' cement ?”
Trial Balance.
Debit all losses and credit all gains —
That is the usual bookkeeping rule.
The wife’s done a bunk ; that my rap-
ture explains,
And if she’s now a debit then I’m a
damned fool!
J. F. H.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Get your material out of your backyard.”
—Literary school’s advice.
But surely editors would tire of stories
about empty bottles.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Firemen work 78 hours a weex.— “Truth.”
A few more hours and they’ll be work-
ing almost as long as suburbanites take
to get their fires going.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Woodcutting is the best exercise of all.”
—Beauty hint.
Quite right. Even Bill runs like blazes
when woodcutting is mentioned.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The Federated Confectioners’ Association
held its annual dance on Saturday night.”
—Social blurb.
A toffee affair, no doubt.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Then there was the lady writer who
sent the editor a nudist club article ac-
companied by a covering letter.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Card.
“The husband admitted ne stayed out most
nights playing various card games, but added
that he always found his wife waiting to have
a row when he reached home.” —Divorce item.
Expecting a rough deal, he arrived
home from the club at midnight, mur-
muring “Whist!” to the dogs. But she
was waiting for him, a flush on her face,
the poker in her hand. Five hundred
demons woke within her brain as she
plunged to bridge the gap between her-
self and him. He thought she looked
rummy, but as he had a full hand of
chips bought at auction he couldn’t grab
her. Vulnerable, he stood like a dummy
and listened with patience until she was
played out. When, cut to the heart, he
shuffled off to his crib as he was bid she
followed on and had the last say, as he
tried to slam the door.
“You cur! You knave!” she called.
“You think you’re a joker, but you can’t
bluff me with your trumped-up tales! i’ll
trick you out of that little game! Get
out! ”
Key.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
Low Condition.
“Heart troubles nearly always make us short
of breath,” declares doctor.
No doubt they do. But you’ll agree,
If ever you’ve been rash,
Such ailments quite as frequently
Can make us short of cash.
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Be Your Own Mechanic!
V.— Overhauling and Underhauling.
It will be as well to get on with the
job bright and early on Sunday morn-
ing, for there is still much to be done
before you have finished with the engine.
The pistons are next to be tested. In
some engines these come out from the
top of the cylinder, in others from the
bottom. If the latter, you will, of course,
have to remove the sump to get at them ;
but, as you will be testing the big ends,
it will be necessary to drop the sump
in any case.
Get under the car with a spanner and
start removing the multitude of nuts that
hold the sump in place. As this is a long
and tedious job and you will be cramped
throughout in an uncomfortable posi-
tion, first get a couple of cushions from
the lounge suite and park your head on
these.
When, having got most of the nuts
off, the sump suddenly sags on to your
chest, precipitating half a gallon of cold
oil down your shirt, act quickly and
without fuss. Getting leverage with your
shoulder-blades and heels, apply the can-
tilever principle to push the sump up
again with your chest into its normal
position and sing out for one of the kids
to roll a block of wood under your back.
This will relieve the strain and enable
you to use both hands for getting off
the remaining nuts.
After the last one is removed comes
the most ticklish part. Take a firm grip
of the sump with both hands and then
get the kids to kick the big block away
from under your back and slide a slightly
smaller one in its place. This will have
to be done smartly, otherwise you will
suffer another deluge of oil as your
shoulder-blades hit the ground. By the
use of graduated-sized blocks disappear-
ing to practically nothing, however, you
can eventually get yourself lowered to
the ground without much trouble.
The next thing is to get from under
the car with the full—or now half-full—
sump still on your chest, as the, confined
space you are in will not permit your
relieving yourself of it there. This won’t
be easy. However, by bracing your feet
against some immovable object and push-
ing yourself cautiously out a few inches
at a time you should do it without spill-
ing more than half of what oil is left.
Alternatively, you can get the wife to
operate the small hand-winch, with the
steel rope given a half-hitch around your
shoulders. The cushions can later be
surreptitiously returned to the lounge
suite, but remember to turn the sides with
the oily marks on facing inwards.
Now for the pistons. If you are un-
certain as to whether these are removed
from the top or bottom of the cylinders,
cut a small hardwood block and, work-
ing from the top of the car so as to get
more striking force, place it on the piston
and knock it down hard with the mat-
tock. If, after continued striking, the
piston doesn’t go through the bottom
you may rightly assume that it is not
meant to. It is then only a simple matter
of lifting it out the top.
A coarse half-round file is the ideal
thing to burnish the pistons up with, but
make sure that this is done evenly all
round. Keep a carpenter’s rule by you
as you work, taking your measurements
every few seconds. To the nearest £in.
will be found satisfactory.
The removal of the sump will have
exposed the big ends. As these consti-
tute a likely cause of rattle, remove the
nuts and examine the bearings.
The trouble is likely to be in the shims,
a lot of very fine washerlike things be-
tween the bearings. If in your opinion
these are likely to rattle when the car is
in motion, pull them all off and put a
couple of good solid iron washers in
their place.
While you are about it, and before
you reassemble the various parts, it
might be as well to check over the elec-
trical things.
Of these the most important is the
distributor. Undo the bolts holding the
top part on. One good jerk and the
head should come right off. The dis-
tributor points can now be plainly seen,
and, as faulty points mean poor contact,
these must be cleaned up.
Pour a little petrol over each and apply
a match. Keep applying petrol until
they are red-hot, with a consequent
loosening of any foreign matter that may
be clinging to them. Now get your
round rasp, bringing it sharply across
the points from right to left. Should you
carelessly burr them they will have to be
sharpened again with a smooth three-
cornered file. To prevent rust give each
one a liberal shot of oil before putting
the head on again.
S. W. K.
Fashion Note.
“Surfing costumes may be more daring than
ever this year.”— Woman’s paper.
Soon flappers, drawing many stares,
Will knock us poor males flat;
They’ll put on quite a lot of airs —
And let it go at that.
H. M.
Matters of Course.
Bookmakers are capable of double-
dealing.
When approaching the course you hear
a babble like a lot of cackling hens you
know it is the bookmakers laying the
odds.
In the sport of kings it is the punters
who provide the crowns.
Punters often declare “this is the last
horse I am going to back.” Often it is
the last horse.
When a backer, having a run of luck,
decides to pursue it, it is all up with him.
Punters sometimes have a bit left over
when a day of reverses has taken toll of
their cash. Then they go home on the
bit.
Systems provide a systematic method
of losing one’s money.
When the punter goes home after all
the sure things have failed, the dead cer-
tainties have run dead and the morals
have gone astray, he can at least gamble
on his wife’s nag.
H. M.


BOARDROOMS
SHOULD BE
SOUNDPROOF
Every wideawake executive realises the necessity for
absolute quiet in the boardroom. Extraneous noises
are not conducive to the concentration necessary for
important business discussions. Modern buildings are
carefully planned and built so that external noises are
minimised; but in the older buildings street noises and
traffic noises seem to permeate the whole place and
echo and re-echo with increasing volume, preventing
concentration—jangling nerves—fraying tempers. The
minimising of noise in all types of buildings can be
achieved in several ways. For small areas such as
boardrooms or executives’ offices, Newalls “Paxtiles”
are the ideal sound insulation. Newalls “Paxtiles” are
easily fitted, wonderfully durable and may be as easily
painted as wood or plaster. Leading architects agree
that there is no finer acoustic material. Our acoustic
experts will be pleased to advise on the use of Newalls
“Paxtiles” for minimising noise.
WILUAM ADAMS & COMPANY
Telephone: BW4OBI (10 Lines).
175 Clarence Street, Sydney
Melbourne Steam (Vic.).
North Coast Steam (N.S.W.).
Melbourne Steam has declared a
7 p.c. div. for 1937-38, and at
28s. 6d. the scrip yields 5 p.c.
Melbourne investors might well
give more attention to the shares.
In Sydney, North Coast Steam
shares may be had at around 395.,
and as the final div. for 1937-38
was 9 p.c. p.a. there is a prospec-
tive yield of 4.7 p.c. there, or 4.4
p.c. if last year’s average rate (8|
p.c.) only is maintained. North
Coast Steam is a solid stock.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Cheating Ourselves
Australians are great hands at robbing
themselves, and they do it in the most
cheerful manner, perhaps because the
cheating usually happens without their
realising it.
The observations of a Sydney financial
man on this—and another —point are
interesting. Called in to look over two
large manufacturing businesses with a
national market for their goods, he has
come to the conclusion that in a big
concern the skilled workman really earns
his money, and that the majority of so-
called “executives” don’t pull their weight
to the same extent. He excludes from
the latter the men at the top ; organisa-
tion, direction and sense of responsibility
are not common qualities in combination,
and exercising them often takes a full
toll of time, as well as energy and bodily
health.
Some of that is perhaps a controversial
side-issue to our story. More to the point
is that, though this investigator was satis-
fied that most factory men did their
jobs in a way that was a pleasure to
watch, he was just as satisfied that the
way they aimed at getting a larger share
of the results of their work was wrong.
Higher wages, the carrot held aloft by
the trade-union secretaries, got them
nowhere except, eventually, into a costs-
and-prices boom, and then —unemploy-
ment.
The last part, at least, is all too true.
The things that sellers of labor and
sellers of goods do one by one they pay
for together. There can be only one end
to a rising spiral of costs and prices,
and that end is a slump.
Perhaps this self-cheating by all classes
of Australians is inherent in human
nature. It is certainly a universal charac-
teristic ; the U.S.A. has just had a boom
and a slump so sudden that the average
American is flabbergasted about the
future outlook. In Australia since the
last slump costs and prices haven’t risen
to anything like post-war levels, but they
are rising. There is the danger. It is a
danger that can be lessened if we recog-
nise it fully and acknowledge that real
wages and real profits are often quite
different from what £ s. d. figures some-
times suggest.
Broken Hill Prop.’s £1,300,460 of net
profit for the year ended May 31 was in
keeping with the most hearty anticipa-
tions of this page. It compares with
£1,183,171 in 1936-37, and represents
nearly 19 p.c. on the full subscribed capi-
tal, though the new issue won’t be fully
paid until 1939. Depreciation charged
before arriving at the net figure was
£709,954, compared with £670,817 in the
preceding term.
* * * :f.
Australian sharemarket enthusiasm
showed signs of fading last week. “Tone”
was to blame—even American Dow-
Jones figures, which firmed again (after
a slackening) towards the week-end,
failed to put the customary ginger into
things.
*■■*■■* *
“Watch Wall Street; watch commodity
prices ; watch Herr Hitler” is the ad-
vice offered to investors in the latest
circular of a London sharebroking firm.
All very much to the point, no doubt,
especially in England. To Australian in-
vestors this page offers a further injunc-
tion : “Watch your step”—yes, your step!
* * * *
Kandos Cement, with net earnings of
£97,101 for 1937-38, against £83,108 for
1936-37, bore out this page’s anticipation
(B. 13/7/’3B) of increased profits being
shown for the financial year. Broken Hill
Prop., mentioned elsewhere, also came
up to scratch. Other enterprises with
which the same thought was then asso-
ciated were Bradford Cotton, Mauri Bros,
and Australian Paper Manufacturers.
* * * *
Papuan Apinaipi, drilling for oil in
New Guinea, is now down to 393 ft.,
gas having been met with at 224 ft. Cores
are in keeping with indications on the
surface. Members of the Commonwealth
Oil Advisory Committee will drop in at
Port Moresby this month to confer with
Launcelot Owen, Apinaipi’s geologist.
Apinaipi shares are around 7s. 6d. There
are 100,000 issued, paid to ss. Oil Search,
which also has interests in New Guinea —
it seems to be “negotiating” rather than
drilling—has 1,329,666 ss. shares issued,
priced at 7s. 2d. Much of the money
raised by this big swag of shares has
already gone in hunting for oil in likely-
looking spots in widely-scattered parts
of Australasia. Oil Search’s prospects
may be much better than the Papuan
Apinaipi co.’s, or they may not be. But
if Apinaipi has a chance at all—and as
flow-oil has yet to be found in Australia
or Papua it would seem to have as good
a one as most —its capitalisation at one-
thirteenth of Oil Search’s share-register
gives it attractions. On the other hand,
the widely-spread net of Oil Search gives
that co. chances which Apinaipi hasn’t
got.
sjt H* *6 -k
The directors of Oriomo Explorations
and Minerals Exploration last week
asked Sydney Stock Exchange for sus-
pension of dealings in their co.’s opera-
tions “pending further investigation of
the position” at the property of Hill
End Alluvials. The Oriomo and Minerals
cos. formed the Alluvials co. about 15
months ago to work a show at Hill End
(N.S.W.), said to average 6.835. a yard
and to contain 1,342,000 c.y. in three of
the four leases. The reported values
awakened the curiosity of G. M. Reid,
a Sydney mining man, who visited the
property early this year and, as a result
of samplings, promised several share-
market backers to sit on the tramline
in Pitt-street and eat his hat if anything
like the values indicated were* recovered.
When one market supporter laughed at
him he offered to digest that chap’s black
bowler as well. The latest clean-up re-
turned about lOd. a yard ; that might
have meant that recovery was difficult,
and that the gold had gone out with the
tailings, as someone said it had floated
out of Reid’s dish. However, last week
Hill End Alluvials’ own engineer check-
sampled some ground, to get recoveries
of only 16.9 d. a yard, as against 112 d.
in his original bores. Reid so far is find-
ing certain bottles of whisky he col-
lected very refreshing, he’s still wearing
his hat, and he hasn’t been moved on for
obstructing the tram traffic.
❖ ❖ * ❖
The “luxury theatres” springing up in
Sydney suburbs are affecting attendances
at city houses. Chairman of Carroll-
Musgrove, the co. that built Sydney’s
first modern picture-house (the Prince
Edward), at the annual meeting men-
tioned the suburban picture-show’s lower
capital cost, its provision of parking-
space for cars, and arrangements whereby
it got its films more quickly after city
theatres had done with them than
hitherto. It is all true; suburban coun-
ter-attractions are making Sydney at
night-time more a city-of-the-dead than
ever. If Dave Martin’s new Minerva
Theatre at King’s Cross opens with
talkies, city shows will;feel a still sharper
pinch. There is a feeling of relaxation
(to say the least) around Macleay-street
and Darlinghurst-road that is attractive
to some night-lifers.
* -H
Castlemaine Perkins scrip was sold at
235. last week in Brisbane, and quotes
in other States, where both-ways com-
mission isn’t charged, were firmer than
that. The scrip has been offered cheaply
for some time. The return on an 8 p.c.
div. basis at 235. 6d. is £4 ss. per cent.
Last term a 2 p.c. special bonus went
out, making 10 p.c.
* * * *
Hotel Metropole, Sydney, felt the
squeeze of higher costs and reduced land-
men’s spending power for the year ended
June 30; profit was £1765 lower at
£31,731. The 10 p.c. div., calling for
£25,201, was maintained. The directors
warn shareholders that the outlook is
less favorable than when the previous
report was presented a year ago. The
Australia showed an increased profit and
div.
* * * #
Mort’s Dock, Sydney, is paying 5 p.c.,
plus bonus of 1| p.c., for 1937-38., In
the preceding term 4 p.c. went out. Be-
cause of reorganisation work at Sydney’s
other dockyard, Mort’s is going to get
a lot of extra business for a while—some
of it appears to have come along already.
A new pilot-steamer for Sydney Harbor
is also under construction. The share-
market, cautious about all engineering
concerns, and especially dockyards, offers
13s; Bd. for Mort’s £1 shares, to obtain a
yield of 10 p.c. on a 6i p.c. basis, 7.9
p.c. if the rate drops to 5 p.c. Electrical-
engineering work has been one of the
things helping Mort’s Dock. The co.
has too many shares (650,000), as well as
£164,142 of 5 p.c. debentures. Still, when
obtainable at a price giving a high yield,
the shares are interesting as a long-term
spec.
* $ * *
From A. J. Caro, Sydney:
With reference to your article (B. 27/7/’3B)
in. which the affairs of Caro Court, Ltd., were
mentioned, I would like it known that no
member of the Caro family had any mana-
gerial or financial interest in the co. The
land mentioned belonged to the family, and
an option was given to Caro Court, Ltd., but
without any financial gain to us. The option
was never exercised, and the land has since
been subdivided and sold by auction.
* * * *
Intercolonial Building, that solid Syd-
ney concern, is paying 7 p.c. (final at
rate of p.c. p.a.). At 21s. 6d. the 16s.
shares return 5.2 p.c.
* * * *
Sargent’s (Sydney) having declared a
final div. at rate of 11 p.c. p.a., making
9\ p.c. for the year, investors are hoping
that 10 p.c., anyway, can be looked for
during the current term. With the scrip
at 295. 6d., cum div., the yield on a 10
p.c. basis would be over 7 p.c. p.a.
* * * *
At the Premiers’ conference in Mel-
bourne, July and August, 1930—yes, it
is eight years ago now —Otto Niemeyer
wound up a very apt criticism of Aus-
tralia’s economic position with the fol-
lowing remarks:
Australia cannot wish to remain for ever
under a regime of emergency tariffs and
rationed exchange.... She depends inevit-
ably to a large extent on the primary pro-
ducer, and the power of the primary pro-
ducer selling in the world market to assist
depends on the question of his costs, and
those in turn depend very largely on the
general costs in Australia, which govern
what he has to pay for his supplies and
services. Costs must come down.
Costs did come down, aided by cuts in
wages, interest, rents and retail prices;
we did throw off emergency tariffs and
a rationed exchange. Then in 1937 we
had the most prosperous year in our his-
tory. But is prosperity any reason for
wanting to commit suicide? People who
are now aiding and abetting lifts in
money-wages, lifts in taxation, lifts in
politicians’ salaries and higher prices for
this, that and the other are really push-
ing us for all they are worth towards
that ghastly position we were in eight
years ago. The rising cost of living, slow
though the rise may be, is a tide more
likely to swamp us than any downward
rush in world prices.
* * * *
In B. 15/6/’3B, about the time the
market was at its lowest level in recent
years, it was said:
It seems to be a buyers’ sharemarket
now in many cases of listed investment
stocks.
Mt. Lyell, then at 235., and Zinc Corp.,
at 675., cum ss. div., were selected as
cases in point. A month ago, under
influence of the Dow-Jones index and
the sympathetic recovery in metal prices,
Lyells touched 30s. 6d., and Zinc Corps.,
ex div., 101 s. They are now round 295.
and 965. respectively. Perhaps the sway
of the Dow-Jones index on Australian
stocks is the craziest thing seen in years,
and perhaps the Dow-Jones index will
throw prices down again in the rtot-
distant future ; but the fact will remain
that, taking a commonsense view, Lyells
and Zinc Corp. are cheap stocks when in
the low twenties and sixties respectively.
And to-day’s Dow-Jones index and to-
morrow’s metal prices will mean prac-
tically nothing in their life.
* * Sc *
Bodyline! Bowler, City Editor, London
“Evening Standard” (July 13). Batsman,
Claude de Bernales, the Westralian
Wonder:
Maybe at Anglo-Australian Gold’s meeting
there will be more criticism than bouquets, for
the co. shows a loss of £260,000, equal to two-
thirds of the capital.
Five of the six properties the company was
formed to acquire in 1933 have proved failures
and have been handed back to the Crown. A
sixth property has been let on tribute.
Shareholders’ hopes must now rest on the
company’s interest in Yellowdine and Comet.
Doubtless Mr. Claude de Bernales will have a
good deal to say about these properties at the
meeting on July 15.
But shareholders who hark back to the
prospectus of March, 1933, on the basis of
which they subscribed for 520,000 ss. shares at
par, will feel a little sad about the pleasantly-
named Apex, Day Dawn, Leonora, Mars and
Wheel of Fortune mines.
“A well-known mining engineer” stated in
that prospectus that the mines had “great poten-
tialities.”
In a statement on the value of gold produc-
tion in Western Australia, Mr. Claude de
Bernales said that the industry was “super-
latively attractive.”
“The investment of British capital for the
mass production of Australian gold,” he went
on, “is in every way warranted, as it presents
every reasonable guarantee of large profits com-
bined with financial security.”
Anglo-Australian paid £82,000 to Australian
Machinery and Investment Company for the six
properties. Of this, £70,000 was in shares.
Anglo-Australian ss. shares, after five years,
are lid.
* sk * *
In Melbourne last week:
Broken Hill Prop, shares firmed only slightly
on announcement of the record profit.
Australasian Paper receded to 295. 9d., and
returned 5.3 p.c.
Davies, Coop ords. lifted sharply, from 245.
9d to 265. Holeproof ords. were unchanged
at 245. Yarra Falls shares were firm at
38s. 6d.
The Metropolitan Gas £300,000 4 p.c. cash
and conversion loan was oversubscribed by
£103,200.
Hoadley’s Chocolates announced a loss of
£9523 for the year to Dec. 31 last, as against
profits averaging £5OOO p.a. in the two preceding
terms. Rises in raw-material costs are blamed;
with costs now lower a profit is looked for this
year.


GOOD WHISKY IS
GOODFOR YOU
,oVs'* %v f* **
(AWARDED I 1
. 50 MEDALS f I .
~.0
" ./Mf
. & r*J\
%
c%
#<■
\
#
#
%
%
#
#
:■ j
S'*
%
%
£» *>
#
I
5O Goto
QtXCI
Mcbfll#
s
50 Golh
OtUlt
Prise Azbah
M.
%!
\
“Wish
BY APPOINTMENT
cook™ food MELBOURNE INTERNAfIO UAL
A\>
nuMEO«N
lonuon
&
PAM s
oWSSIIIS
1904
00
a&jt
1900
-V
1887
1888
1889
18 B
1889
1889
14
** '* * **
v
1 X
mmm
888 1&88
1889 1889
'White Label
A Fine Scotch Whisky
OF RARE AGE
X
#
#
#
•JohnDewar&SoDsC-,
DISTILLERS
p ®ar House S.W.I. p Scotland
net contents 1 PINT, 6 fl. ozs.
GUARANTEED WHOLLY DISTILLED AND MATURED IN SCOTLAND
*
t%'
#
mj
pip
\
%
■&
t
%
The superiority of “White Label” over other whiskies becomes evident
from the very first. It is the smooth, mellow flavour that appeals to
some men; others find renewed and lasting satisfaction in the rare
purity and genuine old age of the whisky itself.
S^*
6*
11
DEWARS
■ mW pnHHHH wamga m nnaHm #


©>6e
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1879.
REMARKABLE PROGRESS
INCOME.
1917 £240,437
1927 870,662
1937 . . 1,291,175
CLAIMS PAID.
1917 .. £88,179
1927 . . 161,772
1937 . . 439,175
ASSURANCES IN FORCE.
1917 . . £4,687,056
1927 . . 15,929,272
1937 . . 23,503,005
ASSETS.
1917 . . £1,100,566
1927 . . 4,584,469
1937 ... 9,443,102
PURELY MUTUAL ENTIRELY AUSTRALIAN
The Office Which Pays the Big Bonuses
o. j. McDermott.
DIRECTORS:
G. E. BRYANT, Chairman.
The Hon. FRANK E. WALL, M.D., M.L.C.
M. J. O’NEILL.
W. BENNETT.
NEW SOUTH WALES: City Mutual
Sydney.
VICTORIA: City Mutual Building,
C. A. Ralph, Manager.
OFFICES:
Building, Hunter and Bligh Streets, SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; B. J. Dolin, Manager.
WEST AUSTRALIA: St. George’s Terrace, Perth; A. Wansbrough, Manager.
459 Collins Street, Melbourne; TASMANIA: E., S. and A. Bank Chambers, Patterson Street, Launceston;
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart; R. McNair, Manager.
QUEENSLAND: 313-315 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; J. M. Hannan, Manager.
J. A. Thomson, Assistant General Manager.
J. G. Taylor, A.F.1.A., A.A.1.5., General Secretary.
WILLIAM BENNETT, Managing Director
G. F. Diamond, A.1.A., Actuary.
LIFE ASSURANCE SUPPLEMENT
This Supplement
Eight years ago the late S. H. Prior,
editor of The Bulletin from 1915 to
1933 and the man who before that had
built up the “Wild Cat Column,” con-
ceived the idea of this Life Assurance
Supplement. Prior was a great believer
in assurance, and few could approach
him in his manner of writing on the sub-
ject—or on any financial subject, for that
matter. He wrote the first two Supple-
ments, and died, in June, 1933, just
before the third was to come out. In
his estate several life policies, taken out
over a period covering youth to middle-
age, figured largely.
Since the first issue of the Supplement
-—in the financially dark days of 1931 —
Australian life offices have been tried by
slump and smiled on by prosperity. All
the time the sounder ones have grown in
strength, and though the present era of
low interest rates and higher taxation has
checked growth of bonuses, policies
offered by good offices are generally so
attractive that, despite the slow increase
in population, Australian assurance busi-
ness being written now has never been
greater. For this, by reason of its unin-
terrupted policy of criticism and advice,
The Bulletin believes it can in all
modesty claim a share of the credit.
Popularity
Australians are a life-assurance-minded
race. They hold, on the average, more
life-assurance cover than most other
people of the world. They must have
found it a good thing during the 80 or
90 years during which the mutual prin-.
ciple has been popularising itself in the
country. The popularity indicates several
commendable qualities in the breed, chief
of which are thrift and a desire for in-
dependence of self or relatives.
In few countries has there been such
keen and healthy competition among life
offices as exist on this continent. Helped,
it is true, by the favorable death-rate,
results of life offices here are, on the
whole, not surpassed by overseas offices;
and by virtue of this ascendency several
of our big mutual concerns sell assurance
in Maoriland, England, S’Africa and
other red-colored parts of the map. There
has been a tendency in recent years for
life assurance to sell itself; and if that
tendency grows it should result in lower
assurance costs, or, in more obvious
phraseology, in increased bonus rates.
Bonuses are the fruits of favorable death
rates, low expenses and satisfactory in-
terest returns from funds invested by
life assurance offices.
This tendency of
well - conducted forms
of life assurance to
popularise themselves
should develop into a
great source of strength
to assurance generally.
The better established
offices become, the
stronger their business-
getting position is likely
to be, unless competi-
tion is carried to ex-
tremes. But in the
long run it isn’t sales-
men that sell life assur-
ance. It is the bonus
and other results of
the separate offices.
The salesman is a most
necessary service, cer-
tainly, but he has to
have figures to show.
A sharp and clear in-
dication of the merit of
life assurance as a re-
serve line in investment
shows up in the- eco-
nomic developments of
the past 18 months. In
April, 1937, prices of
commodities and
shares were booming ;
in April, 1938, they
were generally de-
pressed, and are still
comparatively weak. Yet the value of
life-assurance policies is, if anything,
greater by reason of the lower prices of
Gentlemen, the Secretaries!
C. M. MARTIN, of the A.M.P.
articles generally. The value at death
or maturity, and the borrowing and sur-
render values, have not diminished in
terms of money, and money during the
12 or 18 months has become more valu-
able compared with other investments.
Certainly the same conditions apply to
fixed deposits and similar monetary sav-
ings ; but life assurance has obvious vir-
tues that mere savings do not possess. An
endowment policy, for instance, has a
restricted value as a savings fund, and
at the same time provides assurance for
dependants in the event
of premature death. It
is not “dead” money
either; a with-profits
policy in a sound office
earns worth-while in-
terest by way of
bonuses, and a non-
profit policy is usually
bought at a noticeable
discount i.e., pre-
miums payable, es-
pecially under endow-
ment assurance con-
tracts, rarely equal the
sum assured.
Forms
There are three basic
types of business
transacted by life-
assurance offices. The
offices offer to provide
(1) a sum of money at
death of the assured in
return for payment of
periodical premiums,
(2) a sum of money at
death of the assured or
upon his reaching a
certain age (whichever
event happens first) in
return for premiums,
and (3) they offer regu-
lar income until death
in return for a lump sum. No. 3 is
called annuity business, and by itself it is
the least frequent type of business
appearing in a life office’s books. But
by coupling it with types Nos. 1 and 2
it has become very popular.
As an example, a man may take out
what is commonly called a “death” policy
(otherwise “whole-of-life”), paying his
premiums until death ; when that happens
he may have contracted that the lump
sum he has assured for shall be retained
by the life office, but his dependants in-
stead shall receive a regular periodical
income until the death of the chief de-
pendent, usually the wife, on which event
the annuity terminates. Thus, by com-
bining the principle of the whole-life
policy with an annuity, the “family-
income” contract has been evolved. This
type of policy, very popular in recent
years, has been elaborated on in many
ways. Some policies, in return for pay-
ment by the assured of a higher premium
(or acceptance by the dependants of a
smaller annuity), provide for a lump-
sum payment to dependants at death of
the assured, and a life income to the
principal dependant, and a lump sum at
death of the dependant, thus providing
in a measure for possible children of
minor age.
Also, endowment assurance policies
(No. 2 in the foregoing) have been com-
bined with the annuity principle to pro-
vide income for dependants at the
assured’s death before his reaching a cer-
tain age, or an income to the assured
himself and dependants after attaining
a certain age. This is really a type of
self-selected pension scheme, with pro-
vision for dependants in the event of
early death.
“Income policies” have special appeal
to an assurer who does not trust his own
or his dependants’ judgment in the matter
of investing proceeds of an endowment
or whole-life policy when age of death
matures such policies.
Naturally, a good deal of thought is
required on the part of the husband and
wife when an assurance policy of the
income type is contemplated. It is a
somewhat involved kind of a contract,
difficult of comparison with other types


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
m
9
Family Income
POLICIES
Great Advantages of A.M.P. Plan
WHILE the A.M.P. Society has been issuing
for some years past, and still issues, that
form of life assurance policy now known as
a “Family Income Policy,” it has also been issuing,
for many years, another form of policy that has
many advantages over the so-called family income
policy.
This policy (known as Table V.) has all the
advantages of the Society’s Whole Life Policy
(than which there is none better in the world),
plus the provision that it may be converted into a
policy that will provide a regular family income,
over any specified term of years, at the wish of
either the member or his beneficiaries.
Let it be assumed, reader, that you, a young husband, take
out to-day such an A-M.P. policy for £l5OO and bonuses, payable
at death. Because of the great strength of the Society, such an
A.M.P. policy gives the greatest possible return for the money
invested. All investigations have proved this A.M.P. policy to
stand alone.
You decide that, in the event of your death, you want the
proceeds of the policy paid, as a regular quarterly (or monthly)
income to your family, for five, ten, or fifteen years. The policy
is endorsed accordingly and the bargain clinched.
If you die the next day, your family will receive £43/10/7 a
quarter (about £3/7/- a week) for TEN YEARS. If you live for
several years, considerable bonuses will be payable, either in a lump
sum at your death, or as an equivalent regular (and additional)
income over the 1 0 years.
Such a provision for a family is a wise one when the estate to
be left is small. It gives the wife and children an opportunity to
readjust their lives. If, living to a ripe age, and adding to your
policies, you later feel that such provision is unnecessary, you can
have the endorsement on the policy cancelled WITHOUT THE
LOSS OF A PENNY, or you can make half the proceeds payable
at so much a quarter (or month) for, say, 10 years, and the other
half payable at the end of that period. You can vary the method
of payment to meet your altered circumstances.
This is a much better plan than that under which income benefits accrue
only if you die within a specified period. This plan takes all the gamble out
and puts additional benefits in.
Send to the nearest A.M.P. office for someone to discuss the matter with
you, or ask for booklets giving full details.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
A* r \vf n o Ue li^ or<^- r P , »^' Chairman of the principal Board.
£*• A/t' ne . on> F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
of income policies, and therefore it is
most desirable that it be taken out with
a first-class, reputable office.
The Mutual Principle
As has been pointed out before in
other issues of this Supplement,
assurance on the mutual principle can
be described as a pooling of savings in-
stalments, the living continuing to con-
tribute and those who die ceasing to pay,
their dependants receiving the sum
assured, with bonuses added. In the
case of endowment assurance the assured
himself may collect the proceeds of the
policy on his reaching a certain age.
The benefits paid to policyholders
represent a larger volume than the con-
tributions in a good office ; the investment
of policy-holders’ contributions, while
those funds remain in the office, should
bring in a revenue greater than the busi-
ness expenses and early claims put
together.
Profits, after providing for claims and
probable claims, expenses, dividends (in
some cases) and reserves, are handed out
among policy-holders in the form of
reversionary bonuses. These bonuses
have their full face value only when the
policy matures; if cashed as soon as
declared the office usually discounts them
heavily, the fundamental idea being that
they, like the policy, should be left un-
touched until maturity.
A policy-holder may live long and pay
many premiums ; but with a participat-
ing policy in a sound office he should
lose no capital in the venture. And when
'he took out the policy neither he nor
his dependants could be sure that a long
life was ahead of him. He might have
died within a year, when his policy would
have become a claim.
Thus, all types of life assurance can
be regarded as an investment by one
A. C. COPELAND,
general secretary, M.L.C.
who assures in a good office. The specu-
lation as far as the policy-holder is con-
cerned is practically limited to the ques-
tion of bonuses. He can almost always
be certain of his premiums back ; and
often he receives excellent interest, as
well as death-cover for his dependants.
Once well established, a life office
should begin to pay bonuses, and then
improved bonuses. As the office be-
comes able to run its business with lower
expenses and claims than it first bar-
gained for, and if returns from invest-
ments are better than expected, the
assurer gets the benefit, not in cuts in
the payments he makes to the society,
but in bonuses.
In picking an office, regard should be
given to expense rates, mortality experi-
ence, investment income, reserves set
aside for policy liabilities, and the nature
of investment of the funds.
If a life office doesn’t fully distribute
surplus profits, and adds part of them
to reserves, it increases its future bonus-
paying ability.
An office must anticipate the future.
If an institution, for example, up to the
present expecting a 4 p.c. return on its
investments, is able, by increasing its
reserves, to count on only a p.c. return
and still pay the same bonuses, its
bonuses are obviously going to be higher if
it actually nets 4 p.c. on the strengthened
lunds. Also, if an office budgets for high
expenses and high mortality, and both
those forms of outgo are below expec-
tations, another source of profit accrues.
Men, Women and Children
It is usually the breadwinner of a
cimily who appreciates most clearly the
value of life assurance. If he has a sense
ot lesponsibility to his dependants he
cannot fail to be concerned about the
uncertain future —the difficulties which,
unless he is a wealthy man, would assail
his family in the event of his early death.
The same sense of responsibility causes
many men to pause, while in their prime,
and contemplate the day when they will
be dependent—dependent, in their old
age, on the State, their relatives, or, if
they are fortunate, on their own savings
and investments.
Many young men take out endowment
policies with the object of collecting a
lump sum to help them during the early
part of their business lives. The same
young men, when they marry, will very
likely take out a substantial whole-life
policy purely for the sake of their wives
and possible children. Having established
an estate against the contingency of pre-
mature death, they may then consider
their own old age and that of their wives,
and take out any additional assurance in
the form of endowments, payable at a
time when they calculate that their work-
ing lives will be over.
For the purpose of collecting a lump
sum at a certain age before death, en-
dowment assurance is more economical
than the taking out of a whole-life policy
and cashing it for its surrender value
when the money is required. An en-
dowment assurance policy is designed to
provide the greatest possible endowment,
with a corresponding reduction in the
death cover ; a whole-life policy is meant
to give the greatest practicable death
cover, and it is not specially designed
to provide payments to the assured except
at death. That is not to say that sur-
render values of whole-life policies are
not liberal. In a good office, as a matter
of fact, surrender values, after a policy
has been a good many years in force,
are surprisingly high.
Single women can be advised almost
without exception to take out an endow-
ment assurance policy. With no depen-
dants, as a rule, they will find an endow-
ment policy an excellent form of com-
pulsory saving—compulsory inasmuch
as the policy is liable to lapse if they
don’t keep their payments up. Their
aim is to provide for themselves—for a
trip, for a home, for an investment, for
capital or income in their old-age. A
widow with children, of course, may,
as a breadwinner, want to provide for
her family in the event of untimely death
by taking out a whole-life policy, the
same as in the case of a husband.
Until middle-age women are not con-
sidered as good “risks” as men by life
offices. But after they have passed the
child-bearing age their “expectation of
life” is greater than a man’s, and they
are readily accepted as policy-holders if
in good health.
Children’s assurances can be taken out
on the lives of the youngsters themselves
when they are over a certain age. This
is a sound practice where the idea is to
obtain a low premium for a boy or girl
on a policy which they are expected to
keep in force after they come of age.
But where the idea is to provide an
endowment for the child at the age of
education, marriage or entering business
it is advisable to consider taking out the
policy on the life of the parent; if the
parent’s life is lost, the endowment
matures when it is wanted most, and if
the parent survives to the endowment
date, the policy is paid as originally in-
tended.
Surrender Values
Life offices issue a promise to pay a
certain sum or sums, usually with bonuses
added, at death of the assured or upon
his reaching a certain age. This promise
is called a policy. To obtain such a
policy the person seeking assurance must
be able to show a reasonable state of
health and pay a first premium ; there-
after the policy is kept “alive” by regu-
lar payment of premiums, or, in the
event of a default in premiums, by the
office itself advancing money sufficient
to pay premiums—which it does auto-
matically so long as the policy has a
surrender-value.
A surrender-value is the sum a policy-
holder would receive in cash if he went
to the office and said he was prepared
to let the policy lapse (thereby losing
all future death and/or maturity benefits
under it), and to take instead whatever
the office was prepared to allow him
in cash.
The granting of surrender values is
really an extension of the equitable nature
of mutual assurance. Probably the con-
ceivers of life assurance never contem-
plated surrender-values; but as the
mutual and equitable principles of the
system expanded, surrender-values and
the non-forfeiture (so long as the policy


(kmomcMVik exclusive
K
/'
r
V'
UNIQUE
OPTION
POLICY
/
IDEAL POLICY
THE SINGLE MAN
The National Mutual leads
again! The first Life Office
in the world to introduce
the Non-Forfeiture Principle
announces another original in-
novation—The Unique Option
Policy . . .
It provides the single man with
an attractive policy, which, on
his marriage (if before 40 years
of age) allows him the unique
opportunity of increasing the
amount assured, without altera-
tion of premium payments.
$4
> /.
I |. >
&
This policy is vital to the far-seeing single man —enabling
him to increase his cover to protect his dependants, when
assuming the responsibilities of husband and father, without
straining his resources.
See article on this page.
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION </ A/ASIA. LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria).
ESTABLISHED 1869.
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And throughout Australia, New Zealand, Great Britain, South
Africa, India, Ceylon and Straits Settlements.
PURELY
MUTUAL—
EVERY
POLICY-HOLDER
IS A PARTNER
(J$E THIS COUPON
I
Please send me particulars of your Unique
Option Policy. *
: Name
j 6
has an unmortgaged surrender-value) idea
were almost universally adopted.
Surrender-values are often a source
of disappointment to policy-holders who
don’t understand assurance. To begin
with, the allowing of any surrender
values is a concession (though by now
an almost universal one) on the part of
the office. A policy is granted with the view
of its being kept in force until maturity.
If a policy only a few years in force
is forfeited, its surrender value must be
lower than the premiums paid in be-
cause :
(a) Death might have made an office
liable to pay £5OO under a policy after only
one £lO premium had been paid.
( b ) Though in cases of surrender no death
claim has been made, on the general ex-
erience of the office other premature
claims have to be provided for. Few
people would take out life assurance to
cover their dependants if they didn’t know
that death has a habit of striking at in-
conveniently early times.
(c) The office cannot of its own accord
terminate a policy if the assured suddenly
becomes ill; it has to honor its contract so
long as the assured does his part, and it
cannot without the consent of the assured
palm off a surrender value.
The death-risk cover is the fundamental
principle of life assurance, and confusion
around the matter of surrender values
has largely arisen in cases where endow-
ment assurances have been taken out
in the Industrial Dept, of some office.
Very often the assured in such cases
takes out a short-term policy for the
sole purpose of saving money, payable
to him on reaching a certain age, or at
previous death. Still, whatever his ob-
ject may be, the office is still bound to
pay the sum assured even if the assured
pays only one or a few premiums, and
then passes from this sphere.
If the death-cover risk in a life-
assurance policy is fully considered, in
cases of policies that have been in force
for a lengthy time the surrender-value
will be found to be surprisingly good—
in a sound office. That is, taking into
account the fact that the horses have
all left the post, and the life office, which
lays tote odds (deducting only, in mutual
or semi-mutual offices, working expenses,
taxes and perhaps a handful of dividends),
is prepared to stick to its bargain literally
“right to the death.” All assurers who
keep their policies going are winners in
sound offices; the office’s gamble is
around the question of time.
Policies of Many Kinds
Life offices, taken together, offer a wide
range of assurance facilities. All life
policies, however (apart from annuities),
have this in common: they aim to
provide a sum or sums of money at
the death of the assured or on his reach-
ing a certain age ; and most variations
of policies arise around the point of how
premiums are paid to the society in the
first case, and how the assurance is paid
by the society in the second case.
The A.M.P., Australia’s largest and
oldest office, in 1937 issued a record num-
ber of policies of all varieties. In the
record business put on the books, whole-
life policies, the oldest form of life assur-
ance in existence, were most conspicuous.
The whole-life contract provides the
greatest amount of assurance at death
in return for the policy-holder’s outlay.
Continuous assurance protection through-
out life is secured under this table, irre-
spective of the state of health of the
life assured in future years. And should
it be found, at some later date, that' this
continuity of protection isn’t required, the
existing policy may generally be con-
verted into an endowment assurance on
favorable terms, without medical ex-
amination.
Besides general family protection,
whole-life assurance is also suitable for
providing for probate, estate and suc-
cession duties. The policy gives the most
effective and economical means for meet-
ing this liability—a charge that cannot
be avoided. Business and partnership
assurance may also be arranged with a
whole-life policy.
Often a man may feel that his job is
safe for 10 or 15 years, but is worried
about paying premiums after that; if
so, he can arrange with the A.M.P. that
the obligation to pay premiums should
be limited to the period when earning
capacity is greatest. The society has a
table providing for this, premiums being
paid for a fixed period of years only.
An endowment assurance policy with
the A.M.P. will, the society believes, at
maturity give a compound-interest return
on the premiums paid over the whole
term of the policy at a rate from 3 per
cent, upwards, besides giving life assur-
ance protection to a satisfactory extent.
Thus an investment is secured which pro-
vides security of capital, freedom from
depreciation, and generally a remunera-
tive return, together with definite income-
tax concessions, both on the premiums
paid and on the claim moneys at
maturity.
As regards children’s assurances: An
endowment assurance policy effected on
the life of a parent, payable at the end
of a specified term of years or previous
death, will guarantee the funds necessary
for (among other things) a professional
training or a technical education for a
son or a daughter. Parents are enabled
to endow their children by securing for
them the future benefits of life assurance
protection, together with options offered
by the society, at a low rate of premium.
Also, parents, in effecting policies on
their children’s lives at an early age and
handing them over to the children when
the latter become self-supporting, assist
them to acquire a sense of responsibility
and thrifty habits.
Such policies originally effected under
children’s deferred tables may, if desired,
be exchanged for a whole-life or endow-
ment policy at any time after the life
assured ( i.e., the child) has reached the
age of 10. The concession is subject tc
usual conditions relative to evidence of
good health, etc.
The A.M.P. also writes “family-
income” policies, and other contracts of
similar type. A.M.P. monthly income
assurance may be divided into two prin-
cipal classes: (1) policies under which the
annuity benefit is contingent upon death
occurring within a stipulated period from
issue of the policy and is payable only
for the remainder of that period, and (2)
policies that provide a guaranteed income
for a definite period, following on the
death of the life assured or upon his
survival to a specified age.
The A.M.P.’s book of tables is worth
getting hold of just to study the adap-
tations of life assurance.
•b *i* *i* <b
Though the thoughts of youth are re-
puted to be “long, long thoughts,” many
a young unmarried man is not interested
in the death-cover of life assurance ; on
the other hand, he may be keenly attrac-
ted by its investment character. At age
20 or so he may think an endowment
policy maturing at 40 would be an excel-
lent idea, and so it would. Endowment
assurance is always valuable, carrying
as it does only slightly less death-cover
in long-term contracts than a whole-life
policy.
But, having assured himself, the young
man may a few years later get married ;
then his views on life assurance might
undergo a change. His concern at this
stage isn’t so much about providing for
himself in his old age, but rather around
GOWER,
of the National Mutual —
the matter of seeing his dependants
adequately provided for in the event of
his untimely death.
The National Mutual is capable of
looking after even the whims and re-
quirements of such a young man. It
does great credit to the conduct of life
offices that facilities are available for
converting an endowment policy taken out
by a young man into a family-protection
contract when the young man is a bit
older and has assumed domestic respon-
sibilities.
Under the National Mutual’s “unique
option” scheme, a young fellow of 20
can, for a premium of £lO yearly, take
out a policy of endowment assurance
guaranteeing £2lB, with bonuses added,
at age 40 or prior death. At age 28 he
may marry; then, if he chooses, without
further medical examination, he may
convert his endowment assurance of £2lB,
payable at 40, into a whole-life contract,
payable at death, to the amount of £544.
On the exercise of such an option,
existing bonus additions are increased at
least in proportion to the increase in
the amount assured.
The option must be exercised within
three months of the assured’s marriage,
and he must not be older than 40 when
exercising the option.
He need not elect to take out a whole-
life policy either. He may extend the
term (and increase the sum assured) of
his endowment policy without any extra


msm a
ii
, M',
mm
\t
1
« J}\
The Metropolitan Building,
Corner Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
Australian
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company, Ltd.
Incorporated 1895.
Incorporated in Queensland in 1895, the Australian
Metropolitan is one of the old-established Life Offices.
It has 42 years of faithful service to the public behind
it, and has earned a reputation for its liberal and
sympathetic treatment of policyholders.
As its liabilities are conservatively valued, its Funds are
ample for all purposes—but, even so, these Funds are
backed by substantial Reserves, so that its financial
position is impregnable.
At the end of 1937 the assets were made up as follows:
Government and Municipal
Securities
Loans on Mortgage. .
Freehold Properties .
Loans on Policies . .
Cash and other Assets
58.95 per cent.
• • 15.98 „
.. 14.20 „ „
6.30 „ „
.. 4.57 „ „
Assurance Funds at 3 1/12/’ 37 .. .. £1,608,044
DIRECTORS:
DR. A. MURRAY WILL.
W. A. H. ALLWORTH.
D. F. STEWART.
J. A. HENDERSON.
F. J. EATON.
GENERAL MANAGER:
J. A. HENDERSON.
GENERAL SECRETARY :
FREEMAN J. EATON.
ACTUARY:
W. J. COOKSEY, F.F.A.
t
CONSULTING ACTUARY
W. R. DAY, F.I.A.
BRANCH OFFICES:
Victoria:
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 89-91 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Queensland:
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 367-9 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
South Australia:
22 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
cost (except that he pays premiums for
the greater number of years) ; he may
also elect to convert into a whole-life
policy, with premiums ceasing at age 55,
60, or 65. The lad who assured at 20
for £2lB, at age 40 for instance, can get
a whole-life policy for £499, responsibility
for premiums ceasing at 60.
The National Mutual is not giving
“something for nothing” under this
policy; like all sound offices, its con-
tracts have a proven actuarial basis. But
the form of the policy does represent
“service” of the better kind, and the fact
that the society is prepared to grant in-
creased death cover to a newly-married
man without further medical examination
is something to be appreciated by even
the youngest and most carefree of young
men.
+ 4* +
The Mutual Life and Citizens’, a
very sound and progressive office,
periodically produces “something dif-
ferent” in the way of policies to meet
popular appeal. The M.L.C. has a very
competent actuarial staff, and actuaries
are the gentlemen who can tell life-
assurance salesmen what types of policies
can be safely and confidently offered to
the public. Few offices have such a
fount of actuarial knowledge at their
disposal; and though there may not be
any direct connection between the two
things, it is a fact that the M.L.C.’s fount
of bonuses in the Ordinary Department
is something worth looking at.
Two policies that the M.L.C. has
pioneered in Australia are termed its
“BA” and “BY” contracts.
Taking the “BA” ’policy first, the
office has estimated that with bonuses
accumulating at recent rates a man of
30 next birthday, by paying £4O 13s. 3d.
a year (15s. Bd. weekly), may obtain £5
a week for life at age 65 onwards.
Actually, bonuses may be greater or less
over the period, but they promise to
be good. If the assured prefers a lump
sum instead of income, he may take
£1431, plus bonuses, estimated on the
basis mentioned to bring it up to £2766 ;
he has the third option of taking the
income for a definite number of years
instead of a life annuity—£ll Bs. 9d. a
week for five years, £6 2s. lOd. for 10
years, or £3 10s. 2d. for 20 years. In
the event of this third option being exer-
cised, the income is paid for the full
period chosen, irrespective of whether
the assured dies or lives for the stipulated
time covered by the payments. The sum
assured, and accumulated bonuses, are
paid in full if the assured dies before
the endowment age is reached.
If the assured survives to 65 he has
the annuity, lump-sum or stipulated-
instalment options mentioned ; and if he
elects to take the annuity he is guaran-
teed £9 Bs. a year (payable quarterly) for
every £lOO of the maturity value (sum
assured, plus bonuses).
The “8.A.” policy should appeal par-
ticularly to young men, and is a very
flexible type of policy. Under the
M.L.C.’s “BY” plan a sum is payable
at death before reaching a selected age,
and double the sum if the assured sur-
vives to the selected age. Bonuses are
paid in full in either event.
❖ 4* 4* 4*
The T. and G. is nowadays one of the
most progressive life offices in Australia.
It has achieved strength and bonus-pay-
ing capacity, especially in the 0.D.,
mainly during the past 20 years. The
future looks even more attractive so far
as the future can be controlled by the
management.
Family income assurance is one of the
“special-type” policies issued by the
society ; there are, of course, dozens of
other types of assurance contracts to be
taken out with the office. The T. and G.’s
family-income policy combines life assur-
ance with a guaranteed income to the
beneficiary if death occurs in a selected
period. This form of policy provides, if
death occurs in the selected period: ■ —
(1) An immediate cash payment with
all accumulated bonuses.
(2) An income increased by a share of
the interest earned by the society in ex-
cess of a certain percentage, payable by
equal monthly instalments for the unex-
pired portion of the selected term.
(3) The capital sum assured when the
monthly income ceases.
There are benefits for some policy-
holders apart from bonuses.
Service to policy-holders has always
been a leading feature, and, apart from
the £1,888,091 paid out under contracts
last year, the society gives a free nursing
care and periodic medical examination
that have been the means of improving
the mortality experience.
Again, in the Industrial Department the
society has a lien-revival system which
has been of great benefit, particularly
during and after the depression. Added
to this is a system of waiving all future
premiums in certain cases where the
breadwinner of the family has become
permanently and totally disabled.
4* 4 1 4* 4*
The City Mutual is one of Australia’s
strictly O.D. offices. Once upon a time
(about 50 years ago) it did transact In-
dustrial business, but later disposed of
this department. The office thus has
nothing to worry about in the. matter
of recent developments regarding In-
dustrial assurance and the so-called
“national” insurance to be introduced by
Canberra in 1939.
Just as the City Mutual has specialised
in Ordinary Dept, assurance, it recom-
mends whole-life contracts in that de-
partment. Which doesn’t mean that the
City Mutual hasn’t very attractive en-
dowment contracts to offer; it has, and
they participate on a satisfactory scale
in bonuses. But the importance of death
cover in life assurance is shown up in
the fact that though a policy covering
death but without endowment cover (in
other words, whole-of-life) is most popu-
lar with the public, an endowment
contract without death cover has prac-
tically no attractions, except to people
without dependants. In other words,
endowments purely and simply don’t
represent life assurance, even though an
endowment assurance contract is the
second most popular form of policy.
The office with which the name of
George Crowley will always be asso-
ciated has benefits besides bonuses tagged
on to its policy, and at no extra charge
to the assured. The loss of a limb or
an eye by accident entitles the assured
J. G. TAYLOR,
City Mutual
to a quarter of policy proceeds. If the
assured loses two arms, two legs or
total eyesight the whole policy becomes
payable. Perhaps these are contingencies
that don’t often occur; but they are
occurring, and the City Mutual’s pro-
visions are obviously valuable.
The office was set up in 1879, and it
operates solely in Australia. A good
type of policyholder is on its books, the
average sum assured under contracts
issued during 1937 being high at £383.
•i*
Although most parents hope that their
children will develop habits of thrift, the
ideas of most of them —starting from the
money-box stage —never get further than
a savings-bank account.
The Australian Metropolitan Life
issues a form of policy which provides
that a parent can make an annual saving
until his son —or daughter—attains the
age of 21, when the child becomes re-
sponsible for future payments until the
maturity of the policy, either on the at-
tainment of a selected age or in the event
of earlier death.
Under this plan a child can get far
greater benefits for his premium pay-
ments than those which could be given
to someone of the same age whose
parents had not started him on the road
to saving in his childhood.
A man aged 21 next birthday can, pro-
vided he is a first-class life, secure an
assurance of £lOOO payable at age 60 or
in the event of earlier death for an
annual saving of £22; but if his parents
had started saving for him before he
completed his first year of life, he would
be able to get the same benefits for only
£lO a year from the time he attained his
majority.
There are very many grown-ups with
family responsibilities who find that the
saving of the necessary amount to give
sufficient life assurance for the protection
of their families is somewhat of a strain
upon the family budget, but there would
be no such strain had their parents real-
ised the virtue of making savings for
their children in their earlier years.
The form of policy referred to makes
provision for cessation of premiums if


THE
T.&G.
MUTUAL LIFE SOCIETY
mm mmi *m.\
I
in
i«
I
in
■
R
<
■
«
HEAD OFFICE BUILDING.
STABLISHED in 1876 as a
purely Mutual Society, and now
one of the leading Life Societies of
the Commonwealth, the T. & G. stands
to-day as a tower of strength for those
who seek assurance with a nation-wide
organisation of great financial stability,
a reputation for fair dealing and for
sound and progressive management.
The Society transacts all classes
of Life Assurance, Accident and Sick-
ness Insurance, and offers unique
benefits under its Probate and Family
Income Tables.
Assurances in Force, 1937
(excluding Accident Insurance), £80,351,044
Paid to Policyholders, 1937
£1,950,359
THE AUSTRALASIAN TEMPERANCE & GENERAL
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
the parent died before the child attained
age 21, or a return of premiums with
interest if the child died before age 21,
and a guaranteed cash surrender-value
to the parent if the child assured will not
take over the responsibility for future
premium payments after reaching his
majority.
4. 4* 4- 4*
The Colonial Mutual Life has esti-
mated that payments to its policy-holders
or their dependants have been the
equivalent of over £lOOO per day since
its inception.
Founded in 1873 as a purely mutual
office, the society is now one of the five
large mutual offices in Australia. It
operates in Australia, Maoriland, Great
Britain, South Africa and Southern
Rhodesia. It pioneered the group system
of life assurance in Australia, and house-
purchase, through life assurance, is one
of the services which it renders the home-
seeker.
Family income, with its guarantee of a
continuing income to the family in the
event of the death of the breadwinner,
is another featured policy contract.
Financial protection from disability fol-
lowing an accident, and cover for sick-
ness, are provided for in a variety of
policies. Death from accident risks are
also covered. Children’s assurance
policies are also provided for; this type
of contract should really be more popular
than it is.
Expansion of Colonial Mutual.
1873. —Branches opened in Victoria,
New South Wales, Queensland, Tasmania
and South Australia.
1874. —Western Austrian branch estab-
lished.
18^76.— Operations extended to Fiji.
1883. —Cape Colony branch established.
1884. —Maoriland branch established.
1885. —Natal branch established.
1886. —Great Britain branch established.
4* 4* 4* 4
The Australasian Catholic Assurance
Co. is one of the few younger offices to
which The Bulletin can offer its con-
gratulations. Progress has been truly
remarkable over the short space of \l\
years, and the office now has funds in
excess of £1,150,000 invested in good,
solid assets. The speedy nature of this
office’s establishment has been an inci-
dent in Australian financial history.
Though the name includes the word
“Catholic,” the office sells its policies to
any creed or class interested, and to
anyone who can offer a first-class life ;
nowadays especially it can sell on a show-
ing of its achievements in competition
with the majority of offices.
Though young offices generally are to
be excused for being cautious on the
point of surrender-values, etc., the Aus-
tralasian Catholic need offer no excuses
when it sends out bonus certificates each
year. In both the Industrial and Ordinary
Departments present bonus rates are
highly satisfactory. The person who took
out a whole-life O.D. policy, say in
May, 1937, received a bonus of 555. per
cent, at the annual distribution; the
holder of an endowment assurance policy
collected 375. per cent. For the year to
June 30 recently closed, bonus rates
promise to be at least as good.
About 25 p.c. of the business written
is in the O.D. Premium rates are attrac-
tive.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The big Prudential in 1937 main-
tained the same rate of bonus as for the
previous five years, despite the relatively
low rates of interest obtainable at
present on new investments. A full
year’s bonus has been allotted on all
with-profit assurances effected at any time
during 1937, irrespective of whether
the premium paid was yearly, half-
yearly or quarterly. These bonuses vest
immediately, a favorable feature not
always conceded by some other offices.
The Prudential tries to meet the needs
of the public, and as many people have
an aversion to medical examination,
which may cause some inconvenience, the
office has recently extended its condi-
tions regarding assurance without medical
examination. Under the scheme medical
examination is ordinarily dispensed with
by the office for whole-life and endow-
ment assurances by single premiums,
endowment assurances where premiums
are payable for not more than five years,
or where the term does not exceed 20
years and premiums are payable for not
more than 10 years ; and double-endow-
ment assurances. Other classes of assur-
ance, except a few special types of poli-
cies, are accepted without medical
examination provided the assurance does
not exceed £lOOO and the age of the life
to be assured is not greater than 40
years next birthday. Assurances effected
in this way are entitled to full death
benefit after the second year of assurance.
Another benefit: For holders of single-
life, whole-life and endowment assurance
policies for £lOOO and upwards, pro-
vision is made for the immediate pay-
ment, from the sum assured, of surgeon’s
fees up to 60 guineas and nursing fees
up to 30 guineas (for any one opera-
tion) per £lOOO sum assured.
No extra premium is asked for, and
there are no interest or other charges
payable by the claimant. The benefit is
not limited to one operation, and applies
not only to new assurances but existing
policies. There is no restriction as to sex.
The Prudential’s surgical and nursing
fees benefit provides against the dan-
gerous possibility of having to postpone
an operation for financial reasons.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The A.P.A. has recently strengthened
prospects for policyholders by increasing
its reserves and enabling it to budget for
an interest return on a 3 p.c. strict net
premium basis.
The office distributes annual bonuses,
and also incorporates in its life and
J. T. THOMPSON, chairman, managing
director and secretary of the T. and G.
can yet find time to smoke a pipe-
endowment policies hospital expenses up
to 30s. per week where the sum assured
is under £IOOO ; £3 3s. per week where
the assurance is over £IOOO and up to
£2000; £5 ss. per week where the sum
assured is £2OOO or over.
These hospital fees continue until a
total amount equivalent to 10 p.c. of
the sum assured has been paid, with a
maximum of £2OO. Irrespective of the
fact that this benefit is availed of during
the term of the policy, the full sum
assured is paid over with bonus additions
at maturity date or at the death of the
policyholder.
The A.P.A. has a go-ahead Accident
Department also.
The accident policies embody special
benefits; for instance, bloodpoisoning
contracted through a wound is regarded
as an accident, and in the event of death
resulting the full insurance is payable.
The A.P.A. specialises in “all-sickness”
contracts, sought after by members of
various professions, special policies hav-
ing been drawn up for members of
the 8.M.A., the Dental Association,
A.J.A., etc. The office also has policies
suitable for the businessman or the man
on the land covering accidents combined
with either all sicknesses or specified
diseases.
Group insurance is available for manu-
facturing and trading cos. which desire
their employees to be protected for acci-
dents outside working hours —that is,
when not protected by the Workers’
Compensation Act.
Life Offices Reviewed
The A.M.P. —In point of view of size
and age, the A.M.P. towers well above
its healthy rivals in the Commonwealth;
indeed, it is the largest purely mutual
office in the Empire. In 1850 the society
started its second year with a bank credit
of £95 13s. 2d. At the close of its 89th,
just completed, the investment portfolio
exceeded £112,000,000. Combined with
the results won for policy-holders, which
have brought the society a world-wide
reputation, it represents a fine tribute to
the Australian people’s foresight and
appreciation of sound mutual assurance.
Though it will issue more elaborate
types if desired, the society specialises
in plain and simple assurance contracts,
such as whole-life and endowment and
annuities. Last year a record £31,727,700
of new business was written, lifting busi-
ness in force in both departments to
£337,300,000. Income for the year passed
the £ 14,000,000-mark.
Big figures, these. Bonuses, the test
of a life office, continue very handsome,
too, despite the recent low level of interest
rates. In the O.D. reversionary additions
to sums assured ranged from 40s. p.c.
on one-year-old whole-life contracts,
aged 30 at entry, to 725. p.c. on those 30
years in force, and on endowments (same
entry age and duration) from 345. p.c.


w
1
■v
4
m
THE
COMPANY LIMITED
The Empire's Greatest
Assurance Institution
JyJINETY years of thrift-service to the British people
have won for the Prudential the premier place among
the insurance institutions of the Empire.
The name of the Company is itself a symbol of strength,
security and service. That is why new business written
last year alone exceeded £98,000,000 (Sterling), and
why the total sums assured (including bonuses) now
exceed £846,000,000 (Sterling)—equal to the total
consolidated revenue of the Commonwealth of Australia
for the last twelve years. In Australian currency the
income of The Prudential exceeds £1,250,000 weekly.
The annual report for the year ended
1937, disclosed these colossal figures:—
Assets Exceed
Claims Paid Exceed
Annual Income Exceeds
Sums Assured (with bonuses) . .
Life Policies in Force
New Business last year exceeded . .
December 31st,
English Sterling
£330,000,000
£545,000,000
£54,000,000
£846,000,000
28,000,000
£98,000,000
Could more convincing proof of Prudential service be
required than this overwhelming demonstration of public
confidence?
BONUS RATE MAINTAINED
FOR THE SIXTH YEAR IN SUCCESSION
The Prudential Assurance Company, Ltd., takes pleasure
in announcing that its consistently high bonus rate to
policyholders has again been maintained for the last
financial year. This marks the sixth successive year in
which The Prudential has not reduced its bonus rate —an
achievement the more remarkable when it is remembered
that the period includes the depression years of the early
nineteen-thirties.
THE PRUDENTIAL
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND)
Head Office for Australia and New Zealand:
HERALD BUILDING, 66 PITT ST., SYDNEY
General Manager for Australia and New Zealand:
G. J. M. BEST, F.C.1.1.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand.
to 62s. p.c. The total disbursement called
for £3,272,768: —
BONUSES DECLARED.
Ordinary . Industrial. Total.
1920.. 2,9'41,005 211,584 3,152,589
1931.. 2,468,817 233,998 2,702,815
1932.. 2,470,310 259,751 2,730,061
1933.. 2,566,322 276,776 2,843,098
1934.. 2,674,469 288,312 2,962,721
1935.. 2,746,567 297,574 3,044,141
1936.. 2,837,798 310,646 3,148,444
1937.. 2,944,883 327,885 3,272,768
The O.D. distribution was equal to 42.7
p.c. of premiums on participating
policies, as against 42.8 p.c. in the pre-
vious term.
The office assumes its life funds alone,
which have the visible support of
£2,200,000 of sundry reserves, will earn
3 p.c. Actually, last term’s net return
was 4.3 p.c. The margin here, economical
expense rate (excluding taxes, 14.1 p.c.
of net premium income in the O.D. and
29.8 p.c. in the I.D.), and a mortality
experience only 52 p.c. of expectation
indicate the source of the society’s attrac-
tive bonuses. In the O.D. the actuary
has allowed a loading of 18.5 p.c. for
future exes, and profits.
The office enjoys a reputation for
sympathetic treatment, in times of need,
of its policy-holders, whose protection
takes this form: —
1936. p.c. 1937. p.c.
Public securities. £61,440,328 57.5 £65,285,147 58.3
Mortgages . . 24,838,104 23.3 26,228,904 23.4
Loans on policies 16.299,207 15.3 16,309,061 14.6
Premises . . . . 1,950,732 1.8 2,002,939 1.8
Other assets . . 2,274.213 2.1 2,211,096 1.9
Though low-yielding, Government secu-
rities continue to be favored as an in-
vestment channel. The office is now the
largest bondholder in the Commonwealth.
•£• *£*
National Mutual. —Second-largest of
Australia’s five big mutual offices, the
National has a long and creditahle
record, being noted for its low premium
rates and very satisfactory bonuses. The
office conducts no Industrial branch,
sticking to contracts most profitable to
the assurer, so that proposed national
insurance, if and when it comes about,
is not likely to cut into the co.’s activities,
which spread outside Australasia to
Great Britain, Canada and other parts
of the Empire.
Appreciated features of the co.’s pros-
pectus are its group, family-income
and house-purchase contracts. At Sept.
30 business in force had grown to
£106,116,040. Income for the year topped
the £5,605,000-mark, the year’s new
business (£12,193,300) constituting a
record. There are funds of £44i millions
to back policy liabilities: —
1936. p.c. 1937. p.c.
Freeholds .. ..£1,745,535 4.1 £1,759,048 4.0
Public securities . . 20,261,045 47.6 21,532,651 48.3
Mortgages . . . . 9,187,679 21.6 9,624,383 21.6
Foreclosures . . 356,876 0.8 404,208 0.9
Loans on policies. . 5,646,535 13.3 5,470,994 12.3
Other assets . . 5,372,081 12.6 5,748,825 12.9
That book values are well on the conser-
vative side is safe betting.
The office looks for a 3 p.c. return
on its life fund. Actually, 4.2 p.c. was
netted last year, leaving a margin of 24s.
p.c. for bonuses, etc. Over the last six
triennial investigations the surplus avail-
able for distribution has behaved this
way: —
Assurance Net Triennial Bonuses
Sept., Fund. Liability. Surplus. Declared.
1922. £16',557,695 £14,882,160 £1,705,499 £1,455,499
1925.. 22,607,250 21,021,102 2,569,493 2,118,974
1928.. 29,147.330 28,011,304 3,431,655 3,013,518
1931.. 34,558,434 32,898,077 4,160,430 3,577,833
1934.. 37,851,007 36,469,354 3,423,419 3,053,074
1937.. 42,794,134 41,441,898 3,631,835 3,362,423
For the three years covered by the latest
valuation reversionary bonuses on whole-
life contracts ranged from 39s. 4d. p.c.
on one-year-old contracts to 65s. 4d. p.c.
on those 30 years or more old.
Sources of the foregoing handsome dis-
tributions, apart from the interest return,
are to be found i.n the co.’s low ex-
pense rate (last term 14.8 p.c. of pre-
miums received, excluding the tax bill)
and a mortality experience for 1937
only 51 p.c. of expectation. With the
apparent hardening trend in interest rates,
now around their lowest levels since the
beginning of the century, it all promises
well for the future.
❖ 4*
Mutual Life and Citizens’. —The up-
and-coming M.L.C. enjoys a high repu-
tation in life-assurance circles, and one
well earned by results. The co. is a semi-
mutual office, having £200,000 of share
capital to provide for, but policy-holders’
interests are placed well in the foreground
shareholders have to show more than
£4 of profits for each £1 they take out of
the business themselves.
The co. employs the most stringent
bases of valuation yet adopted in the
Commonwealth, assuming the reserves
set up against its policy contracts will
turn in only 2f p.c. in the Ordinary de-
partment arid 2j p.c. in the Industrial
branch. This, combined with the effective
return last year — deducting taxes,
£4 14s. 8d. p.c. in the O.D. and £4 13s. 7d.
in the I.D.—gives the long view for
policyholders a healthy glow in the
ordinary course of events.
£°r expenses, the rate last year was
14.8 p.c., excluding taxes, of Ordinary
and 32.9 p.c. of Industrial net premium
income. Despite further big increase in
the amount of new business written
(£12,560,000 in both departments com-
bined, raising the total in force at Dec.
31 to £75,919,000), the ratios were practi-
cally unchanged compared with a year
before further testimony as to the
quality of the control.
These results and a favorable claims
experience show up in the following com-
parison of actuarial surpluses:
IQ9Q IQ9C: 1 QO« 1937
Ordinary . . £692,946 £671,296 £721,589 £789,433
Industrial . . 76,730 96,203 105,399 102,594
Total . . £769,676 £767,499 £826,988 £892,027
On whole-life contracts in the O.D. the
1937 result enabled the payment of
bonuses ranging from £2 ss. p.c. on
policies less than one year in force to a
very attractive £5 4s. p.c. on those 45
years old.
Considering that nearly 72 p.c. of the
assets are represented by Government
securities (bought largely during slump),
the high net interest return suggests that
policy-holders’ protection is a lot stouter
than the eye can see: —
1936. p.c. 1937. p.c.
Public securities £19,297,913 76.7 £19,308,763 71.8
Mortgages .. 2,875,207 11.5 4,399,456 16.4
Loans on policies 1,811,089 7.2 1,793,750 6.7
Cash, book debts,
etc 510,817 2.0 510,561 1.9
Property .. .. 184,128 0.7 275,610 1.0
Other assets . . 489,692 1.9 586,806 2.2
£25,168,846 £26,874,946
Liabilities* .. 1,394,527 1,649,578
Net assets ..£23,774,319 £25,225,368
* Other than under policies.
Among other comforting things it means
the existence of strong inner reserves to
back the already strong actuarial valu-
ation. A swing to mortgages is apparent,
reflecting advances to co-operative
building societies under Government
guarantees. The co. is building itself
commodious new homes, which have
good advertising value, in both Sydney
and Melbourne.
4* 4*
The T. and G.—Australasian Tem-
perance and General is the precise
cognomen, but the society is best known
by the initials T. and G. to most Aus-
tralians and Maorilanders. Well to the
fore with the latest in policies, this en-
tirely mutual office has made stout head-
way since the Great War period. Over
the five difficult years to the close
of accounts in 1935 the basis of
valuation was reduced from a mixed
p.c. to a uniform 3 p.c. basis, while
£376,500 was added to contingency
funds and £322,400 was written off the
book value of premises. It should all
help maintenance of satisfactory bonuses.
The office does a big Industrial busi-
ness, a little over half the funds belong-
ing to that class of policy-holder. A
vigorous Accident branch is also con-
ducted. Just what inroad national in-
A. H. JOHNS,
of the Colonial Mutual —
surance will make into these sections
remains to he seen. Probabilities are that
the society will not be greatly, if at all,
atfected.
At last accounting policy-holders could
see £28,000,000 of protection in solid
revenue-producing assets:
Public 1936. p.c. 1937. p.c.
securities ..£16,203,829 63.8 £17,387,606 62.2
Loans .. .. 6,477,507 25.5 7,809,523 27.9
Freeholds .. 2,150,294 8.4 2,322,203 8.3
Cash, books debts,
etc 576,180 2.3 451,656 1.6
Last term’s interest return —£4 1 Is. 9d. p.c.
gross, £4 6s. Bd. net—suggests that the
cover for policy contracts is valued on
the low side in the books, considering
the amount invested in Government secu-
rities, which these days yield under 4 p.c.
Excluding taxes, exes, at 18.2 p.c. of
O.D. net premiums were a trifle heavier
owing to the record £10,317,242 of new


THE MUTUAL
LIFE AND CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. declared increased rates
of Bonuses to Ordinary Branch
Policies for the year 1934, further
increased rate for 1935, and main-
tained the latter rates for 1936 and
1937.
EXAMPLES: Whole-of-life policy, age 25 at entry:
Reversionary Bonus for first year £2/5/-
p.c., increasing to £4/2/- p.c. for the 30th
year.
Endowment Assurance maturing at age 60,
age 25 at entry: Reversionary Bonus for
first year £1 18/- p.c., increasing to £3/2/-
p.c. for the 30th year.
REASONS why these results
are possible:—
1. The Company’s powerful reserves and the assets
covering them are unsurpassed for strength
in Australia. 78.5 p.c. of the assets of over
£27,000,000 consists of Government, Muni-
cipal and Local Body Loans and Loans on
Policies.
2. The mortality experienced, due to careful selec-
tion of risks, is extraordinarily light.
3. The Company is managed efficiently, and always
has been. Last year the expense rate was
10 p.c. of the total income.
4. The rate of interest earned on the funds and
reserves last year was almost 5 p.c. The
rate assumed in valuing the Company’s
liabilities is 2} p.c., leaving a margin of
nearly 2J p.c., for profit.
Annual Income exceeds £4,000,000
Payments to Policyholders exceed
£ 35,000,000
ARTHUR M. EEDY, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
A. G. COPELAND,
General Secretary .
Temporary Head Office (during rebuilding):
Hosking House, Hosking Place,
Off Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
business, invariably expensive, written.
In the I.D. the ratio was 12s. p.c. down
at 17.2 p.c.
Before sending £50,000, same as in the
previous term, to contingency funds, net
surplus available for policy-holders lifted
£37,968 in both departments combined:
1932. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Net surplus:—■
Ordinary .. £393,592 £437,176 £465,129 £469,895
Industrial .. 286,548 317,199 344,972 378,174
Total .. £680,140 £754,375 £BlO,lOl £848,069
In 1936 whole-life Ordinary bonuses,
temperance section, ranged from 465. p.c.
on one-year-old contracts to 745. p.c. on
those 25 years old or more.
The office has long found pub-
licity value —and profit, too, in good
times —in its attractive premises i.n all
States.
•b *b *b *b
City Mutual Life.— Like the National
Mutual, the City Mutual, another of the
purely mutual Australian offices, con-
ducts no Industrial branch. Unlike the
National and some other Australian in-
stitutions, the society confines its activi-
ties within the Commonwealth, where
progress continues to be made in those
FREEMAN J. EATON,
Metropolitan Life —
directions most desirable in a life office.
The society still claims -to disburse
something like the biggest bonuses in
Australia, if not in the Empire. Cer-
tainly they are at an attractive rate,
ranging in 1937 from £2 10s. p.c. in
the first year on whole-life policies to
£4 ss. p.c. in the fortieth, and from
375. 6d. p.c. to a .maximum 725. p.c.
on endowments.
Property income has always been the
society’s biggest scoring-point—in good
times, at any rate —though lately, as an
outcome of the setback suffered follow-
ing moratorium legislation and heavy
property taxation during slump, the ten-
dency has been to adopt safety-first
tactics and plump more for Consols.
In 1928, for example, over 57 p.c. of
the assets were represented by mort-
gages, as against 32 p.c. when the books
were last balanced, the funds then being
spread this way:
1936. p.c. 1937. p.c.
Govt, securities. . £1,994,630 22.5 £2,188,110 23.2
Mortgages .. 3,009,436 34.0 3,035,088 32.1
Loans on policies 1,239,734 14.0 1,315,880 13.9
Properties.. .. 1,807,490 20.4 1,970,400 20.9
Shares and
debentures,- etc. 723,835 8.2 764,890 8.1
Cash and sundries 84,275 0.9 168,734 1.8
The lift in the premises item reflects
completion of spacious new Sydney head
offices in Hunter-street, now let at a net
return above the average yield of the
society’s funds.
A year or so back the basis of interest
expectation on the life fund was
strengthened from 3 i p.c. to p.c., the
idea being provision of still fatter bonuses
later on. At 4.92 p.c., last term’s net
interest earnings left a surplus above the
rate now looked for of 355. p.c. for
bonuses and contingencies. Excluding
taxes, the ratio of exes, to premium in-
come was reduced a trifle, from 16.9 p.c.
to 16.6 p.c. —an encouraging movement.
The City Mutual contrives to give the
best values possible in simply-stated,
straightforward whole-life and endow-
ment assurances and annuities, the most
profitable types to the assurer. Young
men’s business is particularly encour-
aged ; and it is to the young man that
life assurance, which becomes dearer to
purchase as time rolls on, should make
particular appeal. Too often it doesn’t.
•I* *b *b *b
Colonial Mutual. —In the matter of
business - writing, the old-established
Colonial has lately been requiring a lot
of elbow-room. The amount of new
O.D. business put on the books last term
was £12,928,400 —a record figure for the
co., and second only to the big A.M.P.
Society. But more important from policy-
holders’—and a bonus-paying—viewpoint
is the reduced figure at which the bigger
business was handled exes, last year
cost 19.3 p.c. of net premiums, exclud-
ing the taxgatherer’s mouthful, as against
22.3 p.c. in the preceding term. In the
I.D. the ratio was unchanged at 33.3 p.c.
The co. goes outside the Common-
wealth to the U.K., S. Africa and Maori-
land for its premiums, group (a line
which the office pioneered) and house-
purchase assurance being among its most
popular contracts. In the I.D. the nurs-
ing and welfare service has proved a
boon to policy-holders. The co. also runs
a prosperous Accident branch, and, being
a purely mutual office, profits from this
section are available to strengthen policy-
holders’ position in the life departments.
The growth in funds has lately con-
tinued to outstrip policy liabilities, and
the margin for bonuses has increased this
way:
1933. 1936. 1937.
Ordinary .. . . £434,769 £450,416 £539,618
Industrial . . .. 97,719 95,971 122,270
Accident . . . . 24,959 33,214 41,873
Total .. . . £557,447 £579,601 £703,791
Of the surplus in the O.D. for 1937,
£467,425, representing 16.5 p.c. of pre-
mium income, is to be distributed in
reversionary bonuses on the same scale
as in the previous year—27s. p.c. on
five-year-old contracts, all ages at entry,
up to 70s. p.c. on those 40 years in
force.
Recently the anticipated basis of in-
terest-earning was reduced to 3 p.c. in
the 0.D., making the rate uniform in
each department, and bringing the society
into line with most of the other life
offices. Last term’s .net return was a
satisfactory 4.3 p.c. on the mean funds.
A scoring-point with the co. has been
its low mortality experience, last term
only 48 p.c. of anticipation under the
tables used.
The £l9f millions or so of assets are
conservatively valued in the books, de-
spite some writing-up when the basis
of policy valuation was last changed:
Public securities 1936. p.c. 1937. p.c.
and debentures.. £9,770,686 49.1 £11,029,301 50.8
Mortgages. . .. 5,276,181 26.5 5,482,865 25.2
Freeholds, etc. .. 2,484,676 12.5 2,685,371 12.3
Loans on policies. . 1,534,513 7.7 1,619,163 7.4
Premiums and in-
terest outstanding 315,312 1.6 272',883 1.2
Cash and deposits 338,139 1.7 438,759 2.2
Other assets .. 178,264 0.9 193,864 0.9
Nearly 51 p.c. is represented by Gov-
ernment securities (bought to give a low
yield by reason of the security offered);
the 25 p.c. in mortgages is partly in con-
nection with home-purchase policies.
Metropolitan Life. —The 43-year-old
Metropolitan, a well-run semi-mutual
office, whose regular bonuses are attract-
ing it increasing support, gathers its pre-
miums throughout the three eastern
States and S. Aus. Returns on a solid
bunch of investments are the office’s
heaviest scoring-point. Deducting taxes,
last term’s net effective rate on mean life
funds was 4.6 p.c.
In the O.D. bonuses to policy-holders,
both whole-of-life and endowment, have
ranged from 30s. to 40s. p.c. over the
last three years. Actuarial surpluses ai
recent triennial valuations compare this
way:
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1931 .. .. £25,779 £19,700 £45,479
1934 . . . , 28,543 19,747 48,290
1937 .. .. 36,910 13,242 50,152
The reduction in the latest Industrial
margin is a temporary phase, due to the
strengthening of the rate of interest-earn-
ing assumed to 3| p.c., which is all to
policy-holders’ good in the long run. In
the 0.D., in common with most of its
bigger competitors, the Metropolitan
values policy liabilities on a 3 p.c. basis.
Seven months ago the distribution of
funds was in this form:
1936. p.c. 1937. p.c.
Freeholds, etc. . . £250,988 15.3 £253,415 14.3
Govt, securities .. 912,558 55.7 1,041,736 58.9
Shares other cos... 21,345 1.3 21,345 1.2
Mortgages .. .. 285,756 17.4 282,445 16.0
Loans on policies.. 108,999 6.6 111,423 6.3
Book debts .. 46,193 2.8 50,608 2.9
Cash .. .. 13,947 0.9 6,189 0.4
The life funds stand at £1,608,000; in
addition, policy-holders have the support
of £97,790 of special reserves and
£50,000 of share capital.
O.D. exes., excluding taxes and divi-
dends, absorbed 18.5 p.c. of last term’s
net premiums. Good work has been
done by the management since 1929, when
the figure was 25.7 p.c.
•b *b "b 4*
Australasian Catholic—This robust
young office continues to go from strength
to strength. Preliminary totals for the
year just closed indicate that new busi-
ness figures reached record proportions,
as did also the amount added to funds,
which raised them to £1,150,000-odd. If
' • > , : - • \ V .


OVER £l,OOO A DAY
is the average represented by
the total amounts paid by
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
to its policyholders, either personally or
to their dependants, since its inception
in 1873. A COLONIAL MUTUAL
LIFE Policy is a Sound, Safe and Certain
way of creating a substantial estate.
PRINCIPAL OFFICE, 316 Collins Street, Melbourne.
General Manager:
Cecil B. Hearn, A.C.I.S.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY—
Established 1878
FIRE,
ACCIDENT, MOTOR CAR
PLUVIUS (Rainfall) INSURANCES
HOUSEHOLDERS & HOUSEOWNERS'
COMPREHENSIVE (Combined)
INSURANCE
CROPS, STACKS and OTHER AGRI-
CULTURAL INSURANCE
BE PATRIOTIC. INSURE AUSTRALIAN
PROPERTY IN AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE
COMPANY.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
past experience is any guide, keen dis-
crimination has been exercised in regard
to selection of the new risks.
It is just 17 years since the office wrote
its first policy ; bonuses commenced to
flow out of surpluses well earned within
10 years of beginning policy-writing.
Last year bonuses were at the increased
rate of 555. p.c. on O.D. whole-of-life
contracts and 375. p.c. on endowments,
and better is within sight. It is a record
that has well earned the young office the
confidence of the assuring public, and is
testimony to the control and long-sighted
policy of managing director E. J.
Mooney.
Though O.D. and I.D. figures aren’t
publicly separated, except when the
actuary makes his quinquennial over-
haul, roughly three-fourths of the busi-
ness transacted constitutes Industrial con-
tracts. An overall expense rate, before
allowing for the Government’s grab, of
35.4 p.c. of premium income is there-
fore distinctly promising. Further im-
provement can be expected, with benefit
to the bonus position.
Funds, a high-yielding bunch, are
chiefly represented by well-let premises
and a solid lot of first mortgages:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Capital £14,010 £14,610 £14,610
Liabilities* .. .. 14,999 24,368 26,955
Mortgages . . . . 309,891 301,450 368,961
Govt, securities.. .. 131,408 67,544 67,544
Cash, etc 13,506 • 8,036 9,894
Debtors 2,008 2,931 3,899
Loans on policies . . 31,042 39,345 49,454
Kquipment . . . . 4,668 5,526 8,050
Shaves in other cos. .. .3,388 3,437 3,437
Freeholds . . . . 206,488 402,162 476,765
* Other than under policies.
The lot turned in 4.5 p.c. net on the
mean life fund in 1937, as against the
3y p.c. budgeted for by the actuary.
It was the margin here, combined
with what look like a favorable
mortality experience and expense
rates, that made the increase in
last term’s reversionary bonuses pos-
sible. N
Assuring for a Home
Reference has been made elsewhere to
the many adaptations of ordinary life and
endowment policies evolved in recent
years in order to meet a particular want.
Family-income assurance has been one
well-received form; another has been
house-purchase assurance, which is hav-
ing a great run at the moment.
This form is a remarkably useful con-
tribution to the scope of life assurance.
The idea isn’t new, but for the first time
it is being written by a number of large
institutions on an extensive, scale. It is
mainly confined to the metropolitan
areas, though there are exceptions to this
rule. Buildings usually must be of brick
or stone.
On approved properties (and where the
life is first-class) an advance up to 70
p.c. may be made on the figure deter-
mined by a competent valuer ; the home-
purchaser must take out a policy of en-
dowment assurance equal to the amount
of the mortgage, which it eventually
discharges. Premium and interest (at
between 5 p.c. and 6 p.c. p.a.) are paid
monthly ; the term of the policy may be
any reasonable period, depending on the
age of the* house bought and the life
assured.
Besides being an attractive proposition
to the assured, the interest yield is attrac-
tive to the office.
The mortgage in most cases is the
usual contract, and the assurance policy
an ordinary endowment, the sum assured
being paid on a certain future date or at
previous death. It participates in bonuses
until maturity. On a reasonably-priced
house, over a term of 15 to 25 years, it
works out as being moderate rent; if
the assured should die meantime the
mortgage is immediately discharged out
of the proceeds of the policy, and the
property passes free of encumbrances to
his wife or other beneficiaries, who’ also
become entitled to the accumulated
bonuses, payable in cash.
Under a contract in one office, where
the. assured is aged 30 at the commence-
ment and the period is 25 years, £7OO
may be borrowed for £5 13s. 9d. per
month—which includes premium and
interest. That works out at £1 Bs. 6d.
a week, which, even considering that the
assured has put £3OO deposit on the
house, before taking out the policy, is
cheap rent. Bonuses at the end of the
period should result in a cash surplus of
several hundred pounds. The effect of
these bonuses is to reduce the actual
interest rate to below 4 p.c., and, inci-
dentally, to reduce the rent, though the
“reduction” is received in a lump after
all payments under the policy have been
made.
Getting Best Value
To get the most out of a policy, once
it is taken out it should be maintained
in force until maturity. Maturity means
the date on which payment becomes due
to the assured or his estate, by death or
otherwise.
To get the greatest return for one’s
money a policy therefore must be kept
going until it matures. If it is surren-
dered in its early years there is generally
a loss on it; the office must make de-
ductions in respect of the death risk it
has run to date. As the contract grows
older its surrender-value increases, but
still it does not pay to surrender.
Again, once a policy has been taken
out it is difficult, if not impossible, to
have its terms altered, except that it may
usually be converted into a fully-paid-up
contract of reduced amount without loss.
A prospective assurer should therefore
consider thoroughly before paying the
P. J. RYAN, A.C.A. man.
first premium which form of cover it is
that he really wants. If he is assuring
mainly for cash at a certain age, with
death cover as a secondary considera-
tion, an endowment assurance is called
for. If he is principally concerned with
providing for dependants or for probate
or funeral exes., a whole-life policy is
the one.
Endowment and whole-life policies,
being the most simple, are the most flex-
ible forms of assurance ; once extras are
added, or additional death risks are
brought into the one policy, the terms
become very hard to alter.
Third-party Car Risks
The likely effect on a family's income
of the loss of a breadwinner is so obvious
that life assurance has become one of
the most popular forms of investment.
But the effect of a lawsuit following a
car accident in which a motor-owning
family-head and some third party are
involved is something that should also
be carefully provided for by anyone own-
ing a motor-car. And the motor-owner
doesn’t really need to be a family-head
in order to make third-party cover a
necessity. If he has means at all he
will want to protect his money ; and if
he hasn’t means he won’t want to be
forced into bankruptcy following some
possible claim for injury.
Third-party insurance is conducted by
the fire and accident offices, not by life
assurance companies. Third-party cover
on the part of car-owners isn’t compul-
sory in every Australian State, but it
should be, for the protection of the in-
jured as well as the insured. This type of
insurance has naturally come into its own
following the evolution of the motor-car,
and third-party cover is often —but not
always included in policies covering
damage to the owner’s car.
As in other forms of insurance, the
losses of the few are spread over the
contributions of tlje many. Under the
original “comprehensive” car-insurance
policy of 30 years ago, the amount in-
sured on the car was the limit of indem-
nity for all purposes, including third-
party liability. Additional third-party
cover was obtainable on payment of an
extra premium, which was also clapped
on if it were required to have more than
one person drive the car.
However, motor insurance has under-
gone an evolution almost as rapid as that
of the vehicle itself. The modern com-
prehensive policy usually covers loss or
accidental or malicious (by other parties)
damage of any kind whatsoever to a
vehicle, including theft of it or any of
its accessories ; unlimited legal third-party
liability to persons or property ; the lia-
bility of other persons driving the car, and
the insured’s liability when driving other
people’s cars; an allowance for medi-
cal expenses in respect of bodily in-
juries, and personal accident benefits for
the insured or other occupants of the car.
Cover, of course, can be taken out inde-
pendently against one or more of these
contingencies, but such policies are rela-
tively more expensive than the fully com-
prehensive type.
The motor-owner who doesn’t carry
third-party cover is a menace to pedes-
trians and other car-owners unless he
happens to be personally well-off. And
il he is well-off, he isn’t fair to him-
self in carrying the liability which may
accrue, if he accidentally injures or kills
someone.
Here is a clause covering third-party
risk in a policy issued by one Australian
tariff office:
The insured is indemnified for any lia-
bility at law for compensation for death
or bodily injury to persons caused by use
of the insured vehicle. In this clause
“person” shall not include:
(1) Any person or friend of the insured
ordinarily residing with the insured.
(2) Any person engaged in and upon
the service of the insured at the time
of such death or bodily injury.
Sometimes a limit is placed ou the office's
indemnity as regards public risk ; often,
as mentioned before, the indemnity is
unlimited. The position should be ascer-
tained by the insurer before taking out
his policy. He will find that terms some-
times vary the cover may extend
from himself to his relatives, employees,
employer, etc., as drivers.
Nowadays, by taking out fully com-
prehensive cover, the motorist is not
only protected against practically every
variety of claim he may become liable
to, but the onus of disproving groundless
claims, sometimes resulting in heavy liti-
gation costs, is transferred from his own
shoulders to those of the insuring com-
pany.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Problem of the Refugees.
[A special commission of leading and other nation
representatives has considered in conference at Evian,
near Geneva, one of the thorniest problems of to-day—
what’s to be done about the increasing number of
refugees (almost all Jewish) from Germany, Austria and
other Central European places, including, curiously,
Czechoslovakia. The digests given here from publications
received in latest airmails turn the spotlight on various
aspects of the problem as it is being regarded in
Britain and may affect Australia and Maoriland. The
first article, dealing with the refugee phenomenon as a
whole since the war, is condensed from a London
“Sunday Express” article by C. A. Lyon.]
Exodus in Our Time
Few realise how great the refugee movement is.
Since the end of the war four million men, women
and children have had to leave the lands they called
home, pack up and flee.
They include 1,500,000 Russians from Russia,
1,500,000 Greeks from Turkey, 350,000 Armenians
from Asia Minor, 120,000 Bulgarians from Greece,
25,000 Assyrians from Iraq, 135,000 Jews from Ger-
many, besides thousands more Italians, Spaniards and
Hungarians.
The French aristocracy which had to leave France
after the Revolution numbered only a few thousands.
The Huguenots who fled from France numbered only
200,000. The Jews banished from Britain in 1290
numbered only 16,000. There has been no forced
displacement of peoples such as we have had in the
last 20 years since the Huns and the Tartars swept
into Europe 1500 years ago.
One and a half million Russians fled when the
Soviets rose to power. Amazing things happened.
There was the epic march of General Tolstov’s 14,000
men along the shores of the Caspian Sea. Disease-
ridden, hunger-tortured, ragged, they retreated hun-
dreds of miles across the bare steppes to Fort Alexan-
drovsk. Four-fifths of them died on the way.
Somehow those who were left reached Basra, on
the Persian Gulf, and put themselves under the protec-
tion of Britain. Britain, not knowing what to do with
them, shipped them all round Arabia, India, Malaya
and China, up to far-off Vladivostok, where there was
still a non-Bolshevist Russia in existence. When Vladi-
vostok fell they had to go a-wandering again.
Then there were the Siberian death trains. Thou-
sands died bf disease and hunger on these trains as
they crawled across the steppes, bearing their packed
loads of refugees to China. Those Russians who did
reach China—more than 100,000 —were, and are,
among the most wretched of all who quitted their
homelands. Toiling beside coolies, and living like
them, many of the women fallen to almost inconceiv-
able degradations, they just eke out enough to keep
alive from the border provinces to which Soviet wrath
drove them.
There were 135,000 Russians who fled by the
south, across the Black Sea from the Crimea. They
crowded into Constantinople in 1920, sleeping in bar-
racks, in cellars, in the streets. They died of hunger
on the pavements.
Then there was the voyage of 1700 from Vladi-
vostok. After this port fell to the Soviets these refugees,
knowing they would get no mercy, fled far and wide.
The 1700 left by sea in 15 small craft. They landed
in Korea, but the authorities would not have them.
They tried a second port with the same result.
They tried Shanghai, but the Chinese would not have
them either.
They sailed on to the East Indies. A typhoon
struck them near Sumatra, and some of the ships were
wrecked or disabled. After repairs they put in to
Manila, in the Philippines. There, at last, the Ameri-
can authorities took pity on them. They were em-
barked in an army transport. After eight months of
wanderings they finished up in San Francisco.
The Russians who wandered to France are a story
in themselves. Four hundred thousand of them live
there.
There were the Armenians in Asia Minor. The
Turkish soldiery rounded up armies of them in their
villages and drove them like cattle into the desert.
Anything from 50 p.c. to 90 p.c. of the long stumbling
columns died on the way.
There were the Greeks who poured out of Asia
Minor when the Turks took Smyrna. They were shot
and bayoneted as they waited in wailing masses on
the quays. Twelve thousand people were burned to
death when the city was set on fire.
All the world hoped that when the first rush of
post-war refugees had subsided the cruel custom of
turning people out of their homes would never be
practised again. But it was not to be. Rather did the
custom spread from country to country, each decade
bringing its new instalment of miseries.
Perhaps the most tragic fact of all is that, even
while the Evian conference has been trying to help
the latest bands of homeless, many of the first bands
have not found homes even after 20 years.
The Doctors Are Alarmed
(Condensed from London “Times")
The B.M.A. Conference at Plymouth carried the
following resolution: “That the council be asked to
give consideration to the effect on the medical prac-
tice in the Empire of the recent influx of medically
qualified aliens, and to report thereon.”
Dr. Ward said that they were threatened with an
invasion of non-Aryan Austrians.
Mr. N. Bishop Harman, treasurer of the asso-
ciation, said that there had been applications from
Danzig and Czechoslovakia, and some from Bul-
garia. Practically the whole of the central part of
Europe was in a state of turmoil so far as Jewish
doctors were concerned. The position was such that
some gesture ought to be made to meet the contin-
gency, and a strictly limited number of doctors should
be received after their claims had been investigated,
and provided they underwent the necessary training
before they were admitted to the register. If they were
going to practise in Britain they should learn some-
thing of Britain’s national characteristics and ethical
ideas. They could not be let loose to practise among
the public until they knew something of these things.
It was suggested that when they became qualified
they should be distributed throughout the country.
The natural tendency of refugees was to collect where
there were members of their own colony.
Dr. Gray said this influx was not an isolated act,
but was one likely to have far-reaching consequences.
In his division there was grave anxiety and apprehen-
sion as to the results of admitting aliens.
Dr. H. B. Morgan (London) spoke of the home-
less, countryless individuals who came to them to ask
that they might, on the ground of humanity, be
allowed to go into certain British colonies to practise.
Dr. B. W. Franklin Bishop, of Griqualand West,
said that the matter had received a great deal of con-
sideration in South Africa. The suggestion that the
colonies would be a good place to dump foreign
doctors made it more apparent than before that they
must take firm action. In Scotland, four years ago,
there were shoals of them doing a year’s training and
then producing a British qualification and coming to
South Africa and claiming entrance, which could not
be refused. For those coming direct to South Africa
they imposed a minimum of three years. They could
not absorb an unlimited number of aliens with a
foreign attitude towards the population.
Dr. D. M. McWhae (Western Australia) said that
they could not take any refugees because, although
they were a large State, they had a very small popu-
lation and a high proportion of doctors.
(Condensed from London “Daily Herald.”)
Every doctor in the British Isles is to be circu-
larised by the Medical Practitioners’ Union in an effort
to prevent Austrian refugee doctors being admitted
to this country to practise.
“If we cannot get any redress,” Dr. A. Welply,
general secretary of the union, said, “we shall com-
municate with every M.P. If that proves unsuccess-
ful, much more drastic action will be taken.
“By that I mean that something will be done to
arouse the whole country, and it may possibly develop
into what is known as a stay-in strike.”
Dr. Welply considers that no sound case has yet
been made out for the admission of foreign doctors.
“No member of the medical profession wishes
to see the country inundated with emigres,” said a
B.M.A. official.
(From London “Daily Express” leader.)
One hundred and eighty-seven foreign doctors
have set up shop in the neighborhood of Harley-
street at the present time. More doctors are to be
allowed into the country by the Home Office in the
next month.
If we do not take some stand, now and here,
determined to preserve Harley-street for our own
people, then rest assured that Harley-street before long
will become a centre where the foreign population will
dominate the profession.
“Australia the Most Sought After”
[A London “Evening Standard” correspondent points
out that Australia appeals strongly to those seeking
.refuge—indeed, most strongly of all, though, as this
writer also mentions, few of these refugees are agricul-
turists, which means that the refuge they seek here is
in this country’s already top-hampered cities.]
The British Empire is being besieged with appli-
cations for admission from aliens who have already
fled European countries and from others who con-
template doing so.
The Australian Department of the Interior esti-
mates that 6000 German and Austrian Jews (the figure
includes dependants) wish to emigrate to Australia.
This is the country of refuge most sought after. At
Australia House application forms are asked for by
between 500 and 600 refugees every week.
On reading the conditions of admission, many
refugees, unable to comply with them, take no further
steps. Australia will admit only those aliens who are:
(1) Dependent relatives of persons already settled
in Australia, whose maintenance is guaranteed. (2)
Nominated by persons or associations in Australia
who guarantee that they will not become a charge
on the State. These must be prepared to engage only
in trades and occupations which can absorb them
without detriment to Australian workers, and they
must have £5O (Australian currency) landing money.
(3) Aliens without Australian guarantors, similarly
restricted as to trades and occupations, and having
£2OO landing money.
A substantial number of refugees, however, are
doctors, chemists, engineers and businessmen, to whom
the restrictions present no bar. Thus the Common-
wealth Government is alarmed, in case Australia
should find herself confronted with labor, social and
political difficulties because of the permitted immi-
gration.
At South Africa House emigration application
forms are applied for by alien refugees at the rate
of about 50 a month. If an applicant can comply
with the conditions he has to send his application
to the Immigration Selection Board in South Africa,
which uses its discretion in each individual case.
Applications at Canada House are fewer, as there
is no demand in Canada for immigrants other than
agriculturists, and few refugees follow that occupa-
tion.
The intake of aliens into England is increasing
month by month. The official figures of “visitors”
landed (that is, persons not coming on business) are:
February, 7097 : March, 9935 ; April, 17,254 ; May,
21,465.
Terrible Soviet “Traitors”!
[Manchester “Guardian,” anything but unfavorably
disposed to the Soviet Union, publishes this (condensed)
caustic report from its Moscow correspondent.]
The attempt to study and appraise “Marxian
archaeology” in the light of contemporary scientific
material has ended disastrously for a round dozen of
the best-known Soviet archaeologists and ethnologists,
including A. V. Artsekhovsky, Bykovsky and Kipari-
soff, who have been denounced as enemies and have
disappeared from public and scientific life.
A leading article in a recent issue of the scientific
quarterly “Soviet Archaeology” alleges widespread
wrecking by agents of the Gestapo and others in
archaeological and ethnographical research institutions:
“Villainous enemies of the people, agents
of the Gestapo, Trotskyites and Zinovieffites,
have wormed their way into our scientific insti-
tutions Having betrayed the confidence of
the party and utilised the blunted vigilance and
insane stupidity of the responsible workers of
these institutions, the enemies introduced and
carried on their disgusting, devious,, criminal
work.”
The reader goes through two pages of this before
discovering just what wrecking was done. He then
finds that the “wreckers” failed to publish arclueo-
logical material and to carry on research work on
the necessary scale. They were, therefore, guilty of
“attempting to carry out the entire suppression
of archaeology and ethnology, as branches of
science the existence of which was ostensibly
incompatible with Marxist-Leninist method-
ology. ...The wonderful archaeological depart-
ment in the Leningrad State University, which
took many years to build up, was completely
ruined by the wreckers, and the State Museum
found it possible to rescue only a portion of
the yaluable material.”
It might be inferred that the building had been
set on fire, but it is more probable that the “wreck-
ing” took the form of the mislaying, confusing and
disorganising which is unfortunately not an uncom-
mon occurrence in many Soviet organisations.
The reasons lying behind this verbose screen of
accusations are clearly seen towards the end of the
article. The real crime of the “wreckers” was an
attempt at critical analysis of the scientific conclu-
sions of the American Louis Henry Morgan, whose
work on primitive culture was used by Friedrich
Engels as the basis for his theories of the develop-
ment of classes in society, and whose conclusions are
not generally accepted to-day by serious archaeologists
outside the Soviet Union.
“The double-crossers, giving themselves
out as Marxist-Leninists and camouflaging
themselves with long quotations from the
Marxian classics, in reality carried on under-
ground work against the great ideas of Marx-
Engels-Lenin-Stalin. The traitor Bykovsky
attempted to revise the views of Engels on
Leaving the League.
Though Australia still contributes some £50,000
a year towards running costs of the now impotent
Teague of Nations and on behalf of Maoriland Mr.
Jordan vocally upholds the old rotten edifice as
something worth risking the Empire to maintain,
one country after another is getting out of it. This
extract from a Manchester “Guardian” leader indi-
cates one phase of the drift.
Venezuela’s decision to leave the League of
Nations is not itself important, but it is a symptom
of a movement which may yet prove to be of the
utmost importance. When the League was first
constituted it was hoped that every State on the
American continent would join; the greatest of
those States, the United States, never became a
member, but Canada did, and all the 20 States
of Central and South America (counting Haiti )
have at one time been members, though not all at
the same time. To-day Canada remains inside and
the United States outside, but of the other 20
Brazil, Costa Rica, Paraguay, Guatemala,
Honduras and Nicaragua have left, and Salvador,
Chile and now Venezuela are in process of leav-
ing.
Though these nine States have given different
reasons, the chief reason, of course, has been the
decline of the League’s prestige since the Man-
churian and Abyssinian failures. To a small
Latin State in South America it must now be a
serious question, quite apart from moral considera-
tions, whether it is worth paying a subscription to
a club which offers so few amenities; and we
must expect more resignations before the League
reaches the bottom of its decline. It is not impos-
sible indeed that the time may come when no
American State will be a member of the League.
The “Guardian,” always an ardent Leaguer, then
makes a suggestion worthy of Mr. Eden himself:—
There is something to be said for the proposal
that there should be three leagues—in Europe,
Asia and America.
Another phase of the increasing flight from the
hopeless institution on behalf of which we were
only two years back loudly exhorted to go to war is
touched on in this extract from a “Daily Express”
leader: —
The French have abandoned their own baby,
the League of Nations. And they haven’t even
left the little foundling on any other doorstep.
It all arises out of Alexandretta. That was yes-
terday mandated territory under the control of
the French. To-day, by agreement between the
French and the Turks, and in defiance of the
League, it has become a Turkish dependency.
And the League has been sent about its
business.
An engaging description of Teague conduct
which had much to do with the great show’s collapse
is given in these pages under the heading “Postscript
on a Famous Circus.”


3 NEW FLOORS
BEDROOMS...
with BATHROOMS
. . . AND 24-HOUR
HOT WATER
SERVICE .
In
Sydney
Stay
at the
I .**
mm s
♦ «
;^ntwd !
rth
pfS-.'
* ‘
* pr Tif ■
■I I® si
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality.
You are treated with the consideration you would
meet with in your own home. Although close to
business and social centres, the Wentworth is situ-
ated in an elevated position away from trams,
trains and other annoying influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms have just been added
and a 24-hour hot water service.
Wentworth Hotel
C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
ONGKONG
Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Ho'ngkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall he
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUMS,PHILP
S. CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: 87901
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
primitive society, rejecting the theories of
Engels and Morgan... .in this way joining the
ranks of the most reactionary bourgeois
scholars.”
The work of Engels and Morgan was carried on
some 70 years ago. Since then a great deal of
material on primitive society has been brought out.
However, any attempt to question the conclusions
of Morgan and Engels in the light of new material
brings forth these shrill denunciations, summary
removal from work, and perhaps arrest, exile or worse.
Postscript on a Famous Circus.
[The proceedings described in this extract from the
July “National Review” may seem funny now, but it
is less than three years since the preposterous show
depicted “at work” was “the cornerstone of our foreign
policy” and as such brought us fearfully close to the
blackest tragedy. That it should ever have been accepted
as that “cornerstone,” not only by such precious crews
as League of Nations Unions and professorial and
ecclesiastical limelighters, but by every leading publica-
tion in Australia, except The Bulletin, seems now
almost unbelievable. The writer of this obituary vig-
nette is J. H. Morgan, who was Deputy Adjutant-
General on the Disarmament Conference in Germany,
and who knows the Geneva circus thoroughly.]
In February, 1932, 1200 delegates, representing 61
nations, assembled at Geneva to “disarm” a world
embattled. The evening before, a great ecclesiastic,
the Archbishop of York, had preached an eloquent
sermon to the delegates in the Cathedral of St. Peter
in which he adjured them to remember that “we”
had “all” sinned against the light in 1914 and exhorted
them to bring forth fruits worthy of repentance. This
somewhat gratuitous confession of “war guilt” on the
part of a highly-placed English ecclesiastic was joy-
ously received by the German delegates.
The League, as is inevitable in such an academy
of oratory with the world as its sounding-board, has
a strong theatrical sense and nothing was left undone
by the “property-master.” The president, Mr- Arthur
Henderson, was presented with a chairman’s hammer
of gold and ivory. There was no sickle, but the Bol-
shevik delegate, M. Litvinoff, was there, waiting to
play the part of tertius gaudens and to slash to ribbons,
with unmistakable enjoyment, every proposal on the
agenda when the time came for its discussion.
Each delegate was presented by the clergy and
ministers of all denominations with a miniature copy,
beautifully bound, of the New Testament —the Ger-
man commentator expressed some doubt whether
they would read it. The delegates were also presented
by the Swiss Postal Administration with a leather-
bound booklet enclosing a complete set of “Disarma-
ment” stamps, specially engraved for the occasion and
representing a dove in flight with an olive branch of
peace in its bill. Whither or from whom it was fly-
ing was not very apparent, and it was left to the
more pessimistic of the delegates to speculate whether
the Prussian eagle might not be in hot pursuit.
One delegate at least, or rather one of those un-
obtrusive “technical advisers,” without whom no dele-
gate can live and breathe, was a prey to deep mis-
givings and “felt almost a sense of shame that he was
taking part in a colossal make-believe.” It was the
British adviser, Major-General Temperley.
The League had been in labor for something like
seven years—in other words, ever since, in 1925, it set
up the Preparatory Commission and the committee of
“experts.” The number of meetings held during the
conference itself has been estimated at 255.
Endless time was spent —or wasted —in that search
for formulas which is so dear to the League and in
debate whether “collective security” should precede
disarmament or follow it, whether “qualitative” dis-
armament should have precedence over “quantitative”
or the reverse, whether a State in default should be
invited to submit to “investigation” of its armaments
or investigated without invitation.
There had been nothing quite like it since another
oecumenical council, convoked nearly four centuries
earlier a few miles away in the Austrian Tyrol, which,
fondly saluted by a whole world in search of peace,
wrangled interminably over questions of procedure,
sought refuge, in thq words of the historian, in
“reticences, equivocations and temporising formulas”
and, after the rude interruptions of intermittent wars,
ended by inflaming the original parties to it until they
became even more acrimonious than they were before.
It was the Council of Trent. No doubt the Council
of Trent was also preceded by an archbishop’s
allocution.
The late “Director of Disarmament” of the League,
Professor Madariaga, in his book Disarmament, began
by blithely proving what he called “the fallacy” of pre-
paredness for wgr as a security for peace, and proceeded
to advocate “unilateral disarmament” in a passage
which deserves to be quoted in full as the epitaph
pacifism and, with it, of the League of Nations Union,
now, in spite of the ministrations of Mr. Winston
Churchill, inarticulo mortis :
“1 confess but little sympathy with the view
that nations must remain armed in order to
meet their obligations under the Covenant. If
a nation, member of the League, chooses to
reduce her armaments to a limit which makes
her internationally disarmed, I fail to see in
such an action any but good results, so far as
the Covenant is concerned.”
If this was not infatuation, by what other name
is it to be called? Like a burnt offering upon the
altar of this doctrine of the pacifists thus confidently,
not to say dogmatically, trumpeted in 1929, Abyssinia
now lies prostrate. Economic “sanctions” without the
military resources to enforce them have proved as
great a delusion as that other will-o’-the-wisp of the
pacifist school, a “pacific blockade,” a thing which is
a contradiction in terms.
The truth is that the whole world, or so much of
it as was represented at Geneva, lived for years in
an unreal atmosphere, mistaking words for things,
dreams for plans, hopes for realities and ideas for
facts.
“Germany’s Real Air Strength.”
[Estimates of Germany’s air strength published in
English newspapers vary between wide extremes —from
the astronomical figures of Winston Churchill, who sees
a German aeroplane behind every bush, to the debunk-
ing of the German air menace to Britain contained in
this “Sunday Express” article by the young Viscount
Forbes. His figure for German training fatalities would
seem to indicate that R.A.A.F. accidents have been sub-
jects of overdone sensationalism.]
New evidence on German air strength is con-
tained in an estimate of the “Revue de l’Armee de
I’Air,” a semi-official publication on aeronautical
matters in relation to French and foreign air forces.
It estimates after an exhaustive survey that Ger-
many has only 1800 first line ’planes. It then sub-
divides this estimate, and says that this figure is made
up of 1000 bombers, 400 fighter ’planes and 400 army
co-operation machines.
The “Revue de l’Armee de l’Air” warns us that
there will be an increase in German ’plane production
this year. 1 join in that warning, but 1 maintain that
it will fall far short of estimates made by innumerable
speakers and writers in Britain.
The figure generally quoted on German ’plane
production is 600 machines per month. I do not
accept this estimate. But it is on the potential ’plane-
producing power of a country in war-time, and not on
the present first-line strength, that we judge air power.
During the last war Germany built 47,000 ’planes,
while France produced 67,000 and Britain 55,000
machines. When the war ended, out of this immense
number that were built we had only 3300 first-line
’planes in service, while the French had 4500 and the
Germans 2300.
The German Air Force is one of the few air
arms that we can assess by their operations on the
field of battle. German air squadrons have fought in
Spain as complete German units. To Spain Germany
has sent her best pilots and machines in order that
they should be tested under war conditions. The
results must have been a crushing disappointment;
they were only third in competence, eclipsed by both
the Italian and the Russian air forces.
The Germans found their crack fighter ’planes
inferior to the Russian. The Russian Mosca fighter
is the fastest ’plane of any type in Spain. Its speed
is 450 kilometres per hour.
The Germans, however, have reason to be well
pleased with the success of their new anti-aircraft
guns in Spain. I am told on good authority that these
guns register one hit for every 27 shots fired.
In wars of the future air personnel will be more
important than ’plane production. The Spanish war
has given us a great deal of guidance on this issue. It
has shown the absolute necessity for having a large
reserve of pilots to call upon in time of war. The
Spanish Government has had difficulty in training
pilots. It has found that it takes nearly a year to train
a pilot to fly a modern ’plane.
The Germans are experiencing difficulties at home
in training personnel for their air-expansion scheme.
Last year they lost more than 900 air-force pilots owing
to incomplete training. Accidents of this character
result in the loss of both the man and his machine.
In Britain we have not found it easy to train the
large number of pilots required under the R.A.F.
expansion scheme, though the Air Ministry has not
lowered the standard of efficiency required for serv-
ing pilots. We have developed the best system for
training pilots. It is uniform throughout the service.
At Northolt Airfield I have seen men of 21 years of
age, who have just completed their initial training,
flying ’planes travelling at 300 miles per hour with
the skill and ease of old hands. Since strength in the
air depends on personnel, I am convinced that Britain
need have no anxiety.
Magistrate on Dangerous Motorists.
(Condensed from a Manchester “ Guardian ” report .)
Mr. Claud Mullins, a London magistrate who
gave evidence before the Select Committee of the
House of Lords which is inquiring into road acci-
dents, said his experience at the Bar and as a magis-
trate had convinced him that drastic changes in the
.law were necessary before there could be any reason-
able hope of improvement in road safety.
“It is my considered opinion that the number of
road accidents is in a large measure due to a feeling
unconsciously encouraged by the present law that a
motorist could take risks, because escape from the
consequences is always a reasonable possibility. There
is the feeling that he can ‘get away with it.’
“Present conditions do not make drivers continu-
ously conscious of the gravity of taking risks. Those
who are detected and punished for driving offences
are merely the unlucky ones and receive sympathy
accordingly.
“Juries have, I fear, proved themselves unsuitable
tribunals in charges of driving under the influence of
drink. Figures should be obtained to show the per-
centage of acquittals granted in such cases by magis-
trates and acquittals granted by juries.
“I believe the figures would be startling. Re-
peatedly I have been inwardly outraged by acquittals
by juries in cases that I have sent for trial.. One ex-
perienced barrister said to me: ‘Before a jury there is
always a chance if you have any hare to run.’ The
jury is inclined to take a lenient view if a man says
he has had concussion or was under great emotional
strain.
“If, as I believe, the proportion of acquittals
before juries is very high I would suggest that there
should be no such chance and that all such cases
should be heard without a jury.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
This time two years ago The Bulletin
was wondering what could beat Young
Crusader in the Metrop., considering that
the chestnut had only 6st. 111 b., and had
won at Randwick over the distance —and
that as a three-year-old with 7st. 121 b.
Now it is wondering how another young
chestnut, Publicity, is going to lose the
Epsom, in which he has only 7st.
Publicity is by Heroic-Ridicule. As
was the case with Young Crusader, he
has a creditable Randwick record —as a
two-year-old he won the Bridges Handi-
cap at headquarters, giving 101 b. and a
beating to Sweet Myra, subsequently
winner of the Adrian Knox Stakes —and
as'a late three-year-old his performances
have been good and consistent. At
Moorefield on Saturday, after a short let-
up, he ran a capital mile, defeating Kori-
mako, a seasoned mare of some class,
at a difference of 41b.; there is 141 b.
between them in the Epsom. Third,
beaten two lengths by Korimako, was
Tuckiar, who was fifth —to Gold Rod,
Mohican, Evening Mist and Black Laugh-
ter —in the last Epsom; he had a pound
more than Publicity. Some may question
whether Publicity can be kept in con-
dition for two months; but Frank Mc-
Grath ought to be able to attend to that.
Publicity is a stout finisher. He had
to be ridden hard by Darby Munro to
hold off Korimako in the Rockdale
Mile, but refused to give in. Half-way
down the straight Publicity, who started
at twos, was joined by Korimako, and
for a few strides the mare looked the
winner, but Publicity beat her by a head.
Tuckiar was third two lengths away.
Hope made a fast run at the home turn,
but went wide.
Publicity has now won three races in
succession for his new owner, W. K.
Dalzell, a Queenslander.
Plutus, a stablemate of Korimako, also
had to be ridden out to beat Televise
in the Moorefield Handicap. With
only 7st. 41b., Plutus had all the best of
the weights, and he was further assisted
by a rain-sodden track; yet threes —in
a field of four —could be got. Plutus
scored by half a head. Gold Spark was
third ; she tired badly from the home
turn. Electron, backed from tens to
fives, dropped right out as the race pro-
gressed, and was at the Leger when
Plutus passed the judge.
Grail Girl (7 to 1), who led through-
out in the Kogarah Encourage Stakes, is
owned and trained by Victorians —the
trainer is W. Burke —and a Melbourne
apprentice, Fleming, had the mount.
Fleming had not ridden a winner since
he scored —on Wolcent —at Woodend
over 12 months ago. He proved himself
a coolheaded youngster. When Keewong
and Procure threw out strong challenges
at the home turn the lad sat still.
Approaching the Leger, he dashed his
mount away, and that was the end of the
section.
In previous races Royal Prince had
shown a tendency to stop. In the first
division of the Juvenile McMenamin
saved the colt for a final run, and,
despite his 9st. 101 b., he fought on gamely
and eventually beat Aeolus and Theo-
gundi. Royal Prince opened at fours,
eased to eights and started at fives.
The second division went to Mrs. E. J.
Watt’s powerfully-built Doric colt Tus-
culum, a brother to Osculum, who started
at 10 to 9 on. Tusculum beat the pace-
maker, Song of the Air, by half a length,
but would have won easily had he not
lugged badly in the last furlong. Dinny
O’Dowd galloped well until his condi-
tion gave out. Hp is raced by pastoralist
J. K. Osborne.
Another pastoralist, G. N. Magill, from
Molong, was present to see his Glenariff
mare Miss Commond take the first divi-
sion of the Flying Welter. She defeated
a couple of fair sprinters, Heroic Faith
and Moaenza, in smart style. Miss Com-
mond’s price was sixes. Nebraska (7 to
2) had an easy win in the second division.
Gay Fortune, the favorite, lost her chance
at the barrier. Nebraska, now a five-year-
old —like Miss Commond —is a daughter
of Rossendale-Duchess Lavender.
In the Accountants’ Handicap at War-
wick Farm on Monday, Heroic Faith,
ridden by Shean, turned the tables on
Miss Commond. The in-and-out fellow
was first and Miss Commond second ;
Oration was third. Heroic Faith, for
once, had things all his own way, so
there was no occasion for him to quit.
Blinky Bill led the Banx Holiday
Handicap (l*m.) field to three from
home, but gave in when McMenamin
brought Vaalmore up from the second
place he had held throughout the pro-
cession, and Vaalmore was in front
taking the turn. Then Munro brought
Cid up from fourth place behind Gold
Spark, shot a couple of lengths to the
van, and it was all over, Cid winning
comfortably from Gold Spark, with
Vaalmore third.
* * * *
Because they have shirked track-work
obligations or something, Sydney jockeys
Cook (Billy) and Duncan (Jack) have
been left off the list of horsemen licensed
for the season which began on Monday.
Both have been successful in the saddle,
Cook especially. Duncan is the young
man who rode Young Crusader when
that chestnut ran away with the Metrop.
in 1936. He tried to repeat the per-
formance in the Melbourne Cup, but
overdid it.
$ * $
Last week Ajax showed no recurrence
of the muscular trouble or whatever it
was that bothered him in the previous
week, and it is significant that he has held
his place at the head of the Caulfield
Cup quotations. It would be a pity if
anything happened to him, for in looks
and galloping ability he is the best horse
Australia has had since Phar Lap, up
to a mile and a quarter, anyway; and up
to a mile and a half he may prove him-
self as good as Manfred. That horse
as a four-year-old won the Caulfield Cup
with 9st. 61b., and his victory was
proclaimed from the time the barrier
went up and it was seen that he had got
away with his field. Ajax has 9st. 71b.
The trainer considers that the chestnut’s
lameness was more likely to have been
due to a wrench than rheumatism. Ajax
is very “flighty”—so much so that Mus-
grave candidly admits turning his back
when the son of Heroic begins to rear
and plunge out of doors. Jack Holt is
experiencing similar trouble with Nuffield.
* sjc * *
Melbourne bookmakers are “walking
on air” as the outcome of outsiders
scoring at meetings during the past fort-
night. July 16 was a black day for
punters at Caulfield, and on the follow-
ing Saturday further misfortune befell
them at Moonee Valley. But worse was
to happen at the Ascot mid-week fixture.
The opening event went to a 20-to-l
chance. Two subsequent winners started
at twelves and 20 to 1 respectively, and,
to complete the rout, Fair Maiden ended
the afternoon by annexing the Welter
Handicap at 50 to 1 and paying
£l7 Os. 6d. for ss. on the tote. Third
horse in the Welter returned £9 for ss.
Point Sturt had his first outing over
obstacles in the Loddon Trial Hurdle.
This gelding, a brother to Yultewirra and
a half-brother to the smart S.A. galloper
Tempest, is held on lease by H. R. Mc-
Cormick from Fred Scarfe, an Adelaide
merchant who made a fortune out of
New Guinea goldmining. McCormick
had no expectation of Point Sturt win-
ning, and was amazed when he led prac-
tically throughout. Fair Play, another
rank outsider, ran second, with Fullar-
ton’s mount, Royal Mail, third.
Frank Lewis, brother of Bob, trains
Foreigner (Parsee-My Play), who easily
accounted for Grand Wedge, an even-
money favorite, in the first division of
the juvenile handicap. Foreigner figured
at threes, which wasn’t so bad for
backers, but twelves could easily be had
about Count Cimaun, winner of the
second division. Count Cimaun is by
Cimbrian, half-brother to Heroic.
Kalispel, owned in Geelong, gave
Bailey an easy ride in the Harrowby
Handicap, for which he was allowed to
go out at 20 to 1. Con Naru (sixes) and
The Card (twelves) filled the minor
places, just in advance of Foreigner (5-
to-2 favorite) Foreigner was short of a
public gallop, and is pretty sure to make
amends soon. His trainer, H. J. Mor-
rison, rode for W. R. Wilson’s stable
in the days of Aurum and Bobadil.
•
His close second to Song of Songs at
the Valley made Gaybrooke look like
something to bet on with confidence in
the Balmoral Handicap, and Dick Brad-
field's chestnut firmed to equal favoritism
with Monulus at fours. Gaybrooke, how-
ever, wasn't in a generous galloping
mood and ran fifth only. Monulus had
a bad passage. Miss Burn-who, unlike
Gaybrooke, is a model of consistency-
began smartly from the rails position,
and, shaking off determined opposition
from the country sprinter Jangler, beat
him by nearly a length, with Benedict,
an improving customer, close up in third
position. After her success at Ballarat
a week previous Miss Burn ought to
have been shorter than sixes.
Fonner Adelaide trainer B. Crocker,
who prepared Laniroi for an Australian
Hurdle victory four years ago, landed
the Ailesbum Handicap with Kiorena
(Friarsdale-Diverge). At 9 to 2 this geld-
ing was next in demand to Our Boy
(twos). The favorite never threatened
danger ; nearest to Kiorena at the end
were St. Loyal (20 to 1) and Amtro (50
1° !)•
Just when Greenoss, solidly backed
at 9 to 2, seemed assured of victory in
the Somerset Welter a terrific rush by
Fair Maiden carried her past Jack Smed-
ley’s horse to win by a head. Both Fair
Maiden and Fearless Imp, third, were
quoted at fifties. Fearless Imp, a grey
son of Heroic, belongs to Vic. Sleigh,
who won an Australian Cup for John
Wren on The Rover in 1921. Sleigh is
now suburban hotelkeeper.
Starting favorite, Davanthus finished a
poor third in the Aberfeldie Hurdle at
Moonee Valley on July 30; but this did
not prejudice his chance in the Australian
Hurdle next Saturday. At the back of
the course, five furlongs from home,
Davanthus was travelling like a probable
winner when he blundered and almost
fell.
Blackford, who was ridden right out
to beat Shere Khan by less than a length,
put up Flemington records for two miles
(3min. 41-1 sec.) and 2\ miles (4min. 34sec.)
in the autumn of 1936. He still holds
the 2\ miles record, but at the last
Melbourne Cup meeting Bridge of Mar
took a fourth of a second off his time
for two miles.
Charley Fitzroy will essay to win both
the Australian Hurdle and Steeple with
Blackford, and has Dress Suit engaged in
the same events. Nothing in Dress Suit’s
recent form suggests that he will repeat
last year’s Australian Hurdle victory.
Nor did Blackford accomplish a great
deal in being all out to beat Shere Khan.
Bill Burke withdrew Giant Killer from
his Valley engagement because of the
going being heavy after rain. At the
close of the day Pooley Bridge retained
favoritism for the Australian Hurdle,
while Davanlhus, despite his afternoon
failure, was in as much demand as Koke
King. Next in request to these were
Giant Killer and Blackford.
The A. V. Hiskens Steeple resulted in a
brilliant post-to-finish victory for the Tas-
manian-owned Jolly Boy, who is trained
at Flemington by Steve Murphy and was
having his first outing over fences. At
fives the Gay Lothario gelding went out
next in demand to Gnair (3 to 1). His
share of the £lOOO stake was £7OO, apart
from a £5O trophy. Much money may
be won with jumpers in Victoria.
Gnair knocked up at two miles, and
finished so weary that he passed out of
request for the Australian Steeple, to be
run on August 13. W. P. A. Lapthorne
journeyed from Adelaide by ’plane to see
his champion run and must have been
very disappointed. There is nothing
physically amiss with Gnair. He simply
appears to have lost all form.
Fortune was kinder to punters than it
had been at several previous meetings in
Melbourne. Every winner was well sup-
ported, longest-priced one being Acheron
(tens) in the second division of the Coo-ee
Handicap. Acheron, a M.L.-bred filly
that Jack Freyer trains for Miss A.
Kitson, finished at whirlwind speed to
beat Regular Bachelor’s stablemate,
Royal Roger, by half a head.
First division of the Coo-ee Handicap
went to Mick Crossey’s colt Adherent
(Curialis-Devotee), who never gave his
5-to-2 supporters a moment’s anxiety,
carrying Arthur Dewhurst to the easiest
of victories. Caption (33 to 1) presaged
an early success by beating Static by half
a head for second. Merridale got away
badly from No. 1 berth, and soon was
hopelessly shut out.
Aitchengee, who competed at the
Sydney Cup meeting, relishes a soft
track, but when 15 lengths behind the
leader six furlongs from home in the
Glen Orla Handicap his chance of gain-
ing even a place looked highly remote.
However, Frank Manning’s representative
travelled like a Phar Lap over the final
three furlongs and defeated King Gee
by half a length.
Favorite was Maluno at 7 to 2, with
Desert Chief half a point longer, Aitchen-
gee at 9 to 2 and King Gee at 11 to 2
a really good betting race. Desert Chief,
somewhat unlucky in running, was third,
but Maluno disappointed. Lady Koorin-
gal whipped-in after trying to run away
with the spoils.
Double Bard (threes) and Carrarice
(7 to 2), winners of the Derrimut Handi-
cap and Sunset Welter respectively, were
clear first favorites. Double Bard hails
from the Wangaratta district and belongs
to H. F. Hoysted, who seldom makes an
unprofitable sortie on metropolitan prize-
money. Carrarice atoned for two previ-
ous failures at short odds.
“Burrendowan”: The Rugby Union
code is steadily catching hold on the
Darling Downs (Q.); the latest affiliated
district is Killarney, in the Granite Belt.
For the first time the Toowoomba match
with the Maorilanders will be against
“Darling Downs” not Toowoomba or
Warwick.
V
“Ellis Park”: The British Rugby team
in South Africa is doing well. It plays
three Tests with the Afrikanders: the
first at Jo’burg on August 6, the second
at Port Elizabeth on September 3, and
the last at Capetown on September 10.
% jfc * *
“Fitzcray”: The amended Australian
Rules adopted by the V.F.A. are finding
favor everywhere outside V.F.L. official-
dom. Several country associations and
the Tasmanian body have adopted them,
lock, stock and barrel. The N.-W. Asso-
ciation has asked for two Victorian
umpires for the final games at Devon-
port, and it is probable a couple of
Association clubs from Melbourne will
visit Devonport to give an exhibition
of the game under the amended rules.
V * * *
“Aigburth”: Frank Woolley has de-
cided to retire from first-class cricket, at
52. It was time, though the tall left-
hander was third in the Kent averages
last year, scoring over 1500 runs and
taking 30 wickets. Woolley was probably
the most graceful of all the great left-
hand batsmen. Early in his career he
was a first-class bowler to boot, though
the art left him with the years. In the
slips he and Tunnecliffe, of Yorkshire,
were rivals for years. In 32 Tests he
averaged 33.28 with the bat and took
43 wickets at 36. He goes to coach at
the ancient King’s School, Canterbury.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip” : The annual meeting of
the N.S.W. Cricket Association revealed
a deficit for the financial year —£2970.
Revenue was only £4373, as against
£12,079 for the year before, when there
was a surplus of £4449, thanks mostly
to the visit of Allen’s English team.
Many of the delegates urged more fre-
quent visits to and from M.L., and it
was suggested that returning Australian
elevens should come' back that way. This
sort of talk is heard every year on these
occasions. Talk is as far as it ever gets.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Entrants for the
N.S.W. amateur golf championship must
sign a declaration of lilywhiteness.
Briefly, the signer avers that he stopped
caddying before he was 18, has never
earned money for playing golf or as a
golf handyman, and has at no time
received any consideration whatever in
the way of free balls, memberships, etc.,
for playing golf. This last clause should
call for some elastic consciences.
{Continued on page 40.)
FOR ROSEHILL.
Flying Handicap: Publicity or
Miss Commond ; next, Micawber.
August Handicap: Plutus ; next,
Brazilian.
Parramatta Mile: Publicity or
Korimako ; next, Jan.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Australian Hurdle: Koke King ;
next, Davanthus.
Crimea Trial: The Egotist; next,
Campaspe.
Moondah Plate: Aurie’s Star;
next, The Trump.
Balaclava Stakes: Desert Chief ;
next, King Gee.
Steeplechasers’ Flat: Cueesun;
next, Ben’s Fort.
Mornington Welter: Sun Beau ;
next, Silver Bond.


HUSb
m
AMDs
Wmmmz.
mm
W:m
■ %
SUFFERING FROM NERVES ANO
DEPRESSION
Go down to your chemist or store and buy a bottle of Bidomak
if your husband is showing signs of irritability. Nine times out of
ten “nerves” are the cause of bad-temper, and nerves are caused
by “mineral starvation.” Perhaps that may seem strange to
you —but people who have tried everything else have been
amazed at the immediate, quick, happy results which come from
the use of a mineral food supplement such as Bidomak.
Bidomak contains the vital food minerals without which,
leading dieticians tell us, life would be impossible. Its use as
directed changes grumpy, tired men into fit, well, vigorous
personalities again.
HOW MINERAL STARVATION
CAN BE RECOGNISED
The loss of mineral elements in the
body is due to the strain and stress
of modern life and the fact that
these losses are not replaced by
our daily food supply. To begin
with, they show themselves in
an insidious loss of energy and
vitality. The power to concentrate
is lost. Then other symptoms
crowd upon the sufferer. He loses
his spirit, the desire to exert him-
self fails, his appetite weakens,
he gets over-sensitive and quick-
tempered.
Sometimes he becomes the victim of
indigestion, neuritis, headaches, and sub-
ject to fits of depression.
Altogether the mineral-starved man
becomes a less efficient member of society.
The more youthful jump over his head
in business. Socially, he becomes a back
number. Thus, through lack of vital
mineral food he loses his ability to enjoy
life and to win success. No wonder he
“snaps,” even at those most dear to him.
What a tragedy this is! But it need be a
tragedy no longer. Bidomak can now
replace the vital minerals and bring the
sufferer back to vigour and vitality.
Energy returns —life looks brighter—
daily tasks become easy—the power of
concentration returns—temper improves
and irritability vanishes confidence
grows quickly as vigour and nerve
strength return. It is like a miracle how
the iron, calcium, sodium, potash, phos-
phates, glycerophosphates and sucrose in
Bidomak combine to provide a new
savour to life, even in the worst cases.
NO DANGEROUS
DRUGS
Remember,- too, that Bidomak is a food.
It contains no bitter, dangerous narcotic
drugs nor opiates. On the other hand,
Bidomak is safe for the youngest children,
who take it readily because of its very
pleasant flavour. Get a bottle from your
chemist or store TO-DAY.
Children Take
BIDOMAK’S Safe
Foods Readily
Bidomak is no old-fashioned medicine
with a nasty taste. Modern research has
enabled the discoverer to provide a palat-
able tonic which ends at the time of
taking the emotional “scenes” which,
authorities say, often lead to serious
digestive disturbances, destroying the
value of the mixture. Bidomak is
pleasant and contains no dangerous drugs,
opiates nor narcotics. It is safe for even
the youngest children, who learn to ask
for it because they like it. So get some
to-day and give it to all your family if
you want them to be fit, vigorous, happy
and well!
PROOF
POSITIVE
Read these amazing extracts
from letters by people who
were once never really well, but
after taking BIDOMAK are
now on the high road to
vigorous, happy health. What
Bidomak has done for these
people it can and will also do
for you.
"I Felt So Terribly Weak
and Depressed That I
Actually Broke Into
Tears ..."
“I was in such a rotten state of nerves
that J hated to talk to people. I’d just
snap their heads off. My nerves were all
shot to pieces, and I felt so depressed
and weak that I would burst into tears
for apparently no reason at all.
“I couldn’t sleep at night, and I lost
my appetite completely.
“When I had taken three bottles of
' Bidomak ’ the difference was marvellous.
“I was a new being —/ can eat anything
now, and I sleep like Rip Van Winkle.
The rash is nearly gone. It’s absolutely
wonderful what a difference ‘Bidomak’
made to me. I love life once more, and
I thank you for your wonderful tonic.
Yours truly.
“(Signed) J. Haydon.”
Loss of Confidence
and Nerves Ended
“Dear Sirs, Over two years ago I
had a severe nervous breakdown. I
had been under the doctor’s care all
the time,'besides taking other nerve
tonics and pills, also having a month
in hospital as a rest cure, as I always
felt very depressed and weak and
tired and unable to sleep. After 1
had taken the first bottle of
BIDOMAK 1 felt a different man.
Now 1 feel so well and happy that i
am always speaking to others of the
wonderful tonic.
“(Signed) R.P.W.”
MONEY BACK
Guarantee TRIAL OFFER
So many nerve sufferers have obtained immediate
relief from BIDOMAK that, if you do not benefit by
taking it, we will refund your money within 1 4 days
of purchase on return of the nearly empty bottle to
your nearest distributor. Thus, we guarantee you
positive relief or you pay nothing.
SCIENTIFIC CONTROL
Attached to the laboratories of the Douglas Drug
Company are three fully qualified chemists and a
Doctor of Medicine, who graduated at the Universities
of Edinburgh and Glasgow.
LISTEN IN TO
ELLIS PRICE IN
NAT GOULD’S
“THE DOUBLE EVENT”
This scintillating drama of the race-track is brought
to you over the following stations by the proprietors
of BIDOMAK:—>
2GB, Sydney; 2HD, Newcastle; 3UZ-SR-YB-UL, Vic-
toria; 4BH, Brisbane; SKA and SAU, Adelaide ;
6IX-WB, Perth ; 7EX, Launceston; 7HT, Hobart; and
7UV, Ulverstone. See your local papers for the times
and days.
Get a Large Bottle
TO-DAY.
3/-
All Chemists
and Stores.
N. Zealand, 3 6.
BIuOMAK
The Tonic of the Century for Nerve, Brain and that Depressed Feeling


\\jtuiqe the TRUTH
hither your tyre gauge is accurate or it is
useless. Have complete confidence in
your tyre pressures by using a gauge
which is guaranteed accurate —the
Kismet. Correctly inflated and
perfectly balanced tyres pre-
vent skids and tyre wear.
Guaranteed
Accurate —
w-
v:
Handsomely finished in
stainless metals; cali-
brated 0-501 b. in single
units clearly marked on
flat surfaces. In neat
leather wallet.
Price,
9/6
u/itk <5
KISMET
TYRE GAUGE
William Turner & Bros., Ltd., Eyre Works, Sheffield, Eng.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb., Vie.
Ins and Outs
Who says four days are not enough for
a Test match? In Yorkshire two and a
bit sufficed for one of the most excit-
ing Tests in cricket history, which ended
in Australia winning in general gloom—
atmospheric and, as far as local condi-
tions went, mental —by five wickets.
Half a. dozen times during the match
victory squatted on alternate banners
and seemed quite unable to decide on a
final perch until the last ten minutes
before tea on the Monday afternoon.
There seemed to be no valid reason for
the failure of the batting.
When Barnett and Edrich had 49 up
at stumps on the Saturday night and
Australia had lost the 20 lead gained on
the first innings, it looked as if the home
side would stay in all Monday and give
Australia a big score to make, very likely
on a worn wicket. Both men began con-
fidently, but Barnett touched a fast one
from McCormick and was caught at
the wicket, 1-29-60. Thirteen runs later,
after Hardstaff had joined him, Edrich
went for 28, stumped by Barnett. O’Reilly
then clean bowled Hardstaff for 11. A
silence that fell heavier on the ground
than Saturday’s fog followed when Ham-
mond was caught first ball off O’Reilly
for a duck.
Four of England’s best had now gone
for 73. In excitement so intense that
strong men could not remember in which
pocket they had put their bottle-opener,
all waited for the hat trick. Paynter
foiled it, and proceeded to jog carefully
along with Compton.
“The Boy,” as they call him in Eng-
land, took no risks, but reached 15 before
the Barnett-O’Reilly combination sent
him back to the pavilion fireside. Paynter
found himself compelled to wait for
loose ones, and did not get many. With
Price, he helped to add a few to the
scoreboard; then F.-Smith got the
Middlesex stumper l.b.w. for 6. Fames
had a couple of valiant smites before
O’Reilly bowled him, and F.-Smith pol-
ished off Verity and Wright with a duck
apiece. O’Reilly ended the tragedy by
bowling Bowes scoreless, and the total
was 123—104 ahead of Australia.
O’Reilly had another great day, taking
5 for 56 —10 for 120 in the match.
Bowes supplied him with his 99th wicket
in Tests against England. F.-Smith took
4-34, and bowled in something like his
best form. Waite was given a couple of
overs and then pigeonholed. Barnett
kept in great style, sending back five
batsmen, three caught and two stumped,
in the match.
Like Mrs. Boffkins in Kipling’s verse,
the Tykes sat in vengeful silence wait-
ing to see the Australians get their
issue—Yorkshire crowds are know-
ledgable in the matter of bowlers and
pitches. They hadn’t long to wait, either,
for in a short time the four first Austra-
lians were back with their pads off for
61, the board reading: Brown, l.b.w.
to Fames, 9; Fingleton, l.b.w. to Verity,
9 ; Bradman, c. Verity, b. Wright, 16 ;
McCabe, c. Barnett, b. Wright, 15. There
was no doubt about the wicket playing
up now, for the dust flew every time the
ball pitched and the bowlers, Fames
especially, were getting plenty of turn.
Hassett’s advent very probably saved
the day for the Australians. He saw
Bradman go, and when the uncertain
Badcock arrived 44 runs were needed.
The Victorian batted cleanly and confi-
dently from the start, but as rain clouds
threatened and a few drops of rain began
to fall he began to take chances, hitting
hard to the outfield. When he was 33,
Edrich caught him off Wright; 5 for 91.
Badcock had held the fort stolidly.
Barnett, hero of the first innings, was
next. The light became so atrocious,
with a drizzle to back it, that all hands
went back to the pavilion. In fact, the
light had been villainous from the fall
of the second wicket, but Bradman pre-
ferred to play on rather than waste time
and, perhaps, have the match washed
out by rain. Hammond it was, and not
the batsmen, who appealed to the um-
pires when the rain set in.
Quarter of an hour saw play start
again. As in the first innings, Barnett
batted stylishly and confidently, while
Badcock picked up a single or two. Then
two characteristic left-hander’s square
cuts from Barnett off Fames rapped the
fence in quick succession and all was
over. Australia by 5 wickets and 2
runs: Barnett, 15 n. 0.; Badcock, 4 n.o.
Fames bowled in great heart, though
he took only one wicket. His 11 overs
cost only 17 runs. Wright’s slow spin-
ners were most successful, his tally read-
ing 3-26. Verity, whom all expected to
make hay on such a pitch, had to be
content with 1 for 24.
The fifth and final Test begins at the
Oval on August 20, and will be. played
to a finish.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The Leeds Test brought
Bradman further records. His 103 in
“Kin either o’ youse play contract ?”
the first innings was his sixth Test cen-
tury in succession—a feat no other bats-
man has approached—and his fifteenth
against England three more than
Hobbs, who played in far more Tests,
could manage. Also it was his twelfth
hundred for the tour, something no other
Australian has done. Altogether, like
“W.G.,” Bradman can fairly claim to be
a freak in a niche of his own. Com-
parison is impossible, except to say that
each has been a law to himself, ignoring
all rules and precedents and reaching
mastery for that very reason perhaps.
* * * *
“Bramall Lane”: Test match averages
to date show Paynter on top of the
batting list with 135.66 for three com-
pleted innings, an aggregate of 407 and a
“highest” of 216 n.o. Hammond is a
long way back with 68.80 and an aggre-
gate of 344, of which 240 were made at
Lord’s. Bradman leads Australia with
108.5, an aggregate of 434 and a top
score of 144 n.o. Brown follows with
85.6 for five completed innings and a
total of 428.
Verity’s 12 wickets at 27 is the best
English bowling effort. Though Wright
and Fames have each taken 12, the
wickets have cost 35.50 and 38.60 re-
spectively. O’Reilly, 19 wickets at 22.73,
is the champion Australian trundler.
F.-Smith has taken 13 at 33, Mc-
Cormick 10 at 34.60, and McCabe 2 at
104. Waite, Chipperfield and Ward all
drew blanks.
* * * *
Cricket in Somerset still retains much
of the old country-house flavor, and
matches in the pleasant West Country are
always looked forward to by touring
teams. The county has produced famous
players, the Palairets among them, and
as captain-secretary of Somerset Austra-
lian Sammy Woods found a congenial
job for years. Later times brought Lyon,
J. C. White, Wellard and Gimblett.
Somerset is distinguished by playing
almost as many amateurs as all the other
counties put together. Last season 21
amateurs out of 28 players figured in the
eleven, and they were genuine lilywhites,
since few were able to play in more than
half a dozen matches. Most of them did
well with the bat, but the burden of the
bowling fell on the small professional
element.
Rain followed our men to the West
Country, and Bradman again lost the
toss. The wicket was not affected, and
Lyon, just returned from South Africa,
took up the batting with Lee, who last
year scored 1700 runs for the county.
Lee went at once for a duck to Mc-
Cabe. Lyon hit hard and purposefully
until Ward snapped him off F.-Smith for
26. Andrews (19), Barnwell (11) and
Wellard (20) made a bit of a stand, but
no one else scored, and all went for 110.
A pleasant change from the poky batting
at Leeds was the hitting of two sixes by
Wellard and one by Andrews. Two of
the balls were lost in the river that runs
along one boundary, but the other went
right over and was retrieved. F.-Smith
and Ward were the sufferers. Fleetwood-
Smith and White did most of the dam-
age—3-40 and 3-8 respectively. Ward,
McCabe —who had to go off with a
ricked muscle—and O’Reilly each took
a wicket.
There had been a sprinkle or two of
rain, and more was threatening. Walker,
making his first appearance for some
time, opened with Badcock. Neither was
worried by the bowling, and when rain
stopped play for the day just before tea
the pair had 106 up without loss; Bad-
cock 67, Walker 35. The saturated pitch
and greasy ball were money from home
for the batsmen.
Rain overnight had made the wicket
soft and easy when Badcock and Walker
carried on the Australian innings on
Thursday morning. Walker added only
a couple to his score before Andrews
bowled him, but Badcock, who had
shown a confidence which he lacks in
Test fixtures, batted on briskly. He and
Bradman raised the score to 202 before
Badcock (110) was run out. Bradman
had been batting quietly for him, Wel-
lard, who dropped his pace and tried to
exploit the wicket with medium off
spinners, giving him some trouble. He
was 72 at lunch, and ran to his 100 in
145 minutes. He then brightened up,
and when Andrews sent him back, clean
bowled, had 202 against his name.
In the meantime, Hassett had batted
brightly for 31, Barnes had been bowled
by Wellard for 9 and Chipperfield had
succumbed to the same bowler for 10.
When the closure came at 464 for six
wickets, McCabe was 56 n.o. and White
2 n.o.
Wellard was the best of the county
bowlers, though his figures were only
2-146. Andrews took two for 108 and
Buse one for 82.
In their second knock the Zummer-
zets soon struck trouble, Lyon, Lee and
Meyer (17) being out for 31. White
clean bowled the first two and Badcock
caught Meyer off O’Reilly. Buse had
been batting confidently, and with Long-
rigg raised the score to 71, when he de-
parted for 33, bowled by O’Reilly.
Longrigg ran up 23, but gave F.-Smith
his first wicket. Gimblett failed again,
Ward sending him back with Hassett’s
help. The giant Andrews had a few
smacks which realised 20, and Barnwell
contributed 18. Both succumbed to
F.-Smith, as did Wellard and Luckes —
all out 136.
F.-Smith took 5 for 30, all the bats-
men failing entirely to get his measure.
O’Reilly and White each took a couple
of wickets cheaply, but Ward’s solitaire
cost 63 runs. Walker kept efficiently
after his long spell.
As an instance of the casual outlook
of players and followers of county
cricket, Lyon and many spectators for-
got that the game began at 11 a.m. in-
stead of 11.30 on the last day.
* * * *
As a county Glamorgan leads a double
life ; in summer it is English ; in winter,
Welsh. The tradition is carried on by
the county captain, Turnbull. He plays
cricket for an English county and has
figured in a Test —not against Australia
—for that country. He is a member of
the English Test selection committee.
He played Rugby for Wales—as scrum-
half —in several internationals, and won
his blue at Cambridge for both games.
Australians will recall him with Harold
Gilligan’s 1929-30 team as a fine bat and
a splendid fieldsman.
The county had one of its best seasons
last year. Turnbull had to help him that
fine bowler Clay, chosen for the first
Test but dropped through injury, Emrys
Davies, who scored over 2000 runs and
took 140 wickets, A. H. Dyson and
E. C. Jones, a new all-rounder, in addi-
tion to several others capable of mak-
ing a three-figure innings and taking 50
wickets or over.
Unfortunately the Australians were
followed to Swansea by their now in-
separable pal the Clerk of the Weather,
who butted in after Glamorgan had been
batting about an hour and washed out
proceedings for the day. The county
had scored 38 without loss: Davies 18
and Dyson 15, with 5 sundries. Brad-
man omitted Badcock, Barnett (on leave
in Scotland), F.-Smith, McCabe and
O’Reilly.
Footbrawl
As a result of Saturday’s V.F.L.
series, the only alteration in premiership
positions is the disappearance of Colling-
wood from the teams separated by per-
centages for third and fourth placings.
Carlton still leads Footscray by four


Tenders.
T HE undersigned is prepared to receive tenders
tor the purchase in one lot of the undermen-
tioned, situated near Cobar: —
Private Lands Lease No. 2448, to mine for
gold, containing about 19 acres 1 rood 2 perches
(ex railway), Parish of Cobar, County of Robin-
son, over P.G.L. 23 (except the surface and
the land to a depth of 50 feet below). Rent
nil. Royalty 1 p.c.
Private Lands Lease No. 2449, to mine for
gold, containing about 19 acres 1 rood 25
perches (ex railway), same Parish, over P.G.L.
24 (except the surface and the land to a depth
of 50 feet below of portion containing 18
acres 2 roods 36 perches). Rent £1 per annum.
Royalty 1 p.c.
Private Lands Lease No. 2450, to mine for
gold, containing about 19 acres 3 roods 13
perches (ex road and railway), same Parish, over
P.G.L. 25 (except the surface and the land to a
depth of 50 feet below, containing 19 acres 2
roods 2 perches). Rent £1 per annum. Royally
1 p.c.
Private Lands Lease No. 2451, to mine for
gold, of about 19 acres 3 roods 26 perches (ex
road), same Parish, over P.G.L. 26 (except the
surface and the land to a depth of 50 feet
below). Rent nil. - Royalty 1 p.c.
Each lease is for a period of 20 years from
the 13th July, 1934. The benefit of four appli-
cations made by the undersigned for Authori-
ties to Enter the surface and land beneath to
50 teet of the above areas of land the surface
of which is excluded under the said leases.
AND ALSO all ore at grass the property of
the Vendor.
AND ALSO the following plant, tools and
machinery situated at the mine: —
One steam crane, 80ft. jib, in reasonably
good condition.
One 25-h.p. Colonial-type boiler, supply-
ing steam for crane.
One Babcox and Wilcox water tube boiler,
1837 sq. ft. heating surface.
One set scales to weigh up to 20001b.
One double-cylinder steam double drum
winch.
One ball mill, complete with liners, but no
balls.
One 10-h.p. White petrol engine, with mag-
neto.
One 7-h.p. White petrol engine, less magneto.
One twin-cylinder high-speed Thompson
steam engine, enclosed type.
One small banjo-type steam engine (incom-
plete).
Two *-yard side tipping trucks.
Approximately three tons 16-181b. rails.
Assay sundries, including stove and gold
scales.
One small double-purchase winch.
One 5cwt. friction winch, belt-driven.
One coil steel rope, approximately 250ft.
Approximately 3000ft. 2in. x 2|in. black
piping.
Buildings and water tanks.
Sundry tools in store.
AND ALSO approximately 110 tons of scrap
iron at the mine at North Cobar.
All tenders are to be made subject to the
terms and conditions of sale attached to the
forms of tender, which may be obtained on
application to me or at the offices of Fred
C. Emanuel and Co., Solicitors, 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney, where the relative leases and copies
of the applications may be inspected.
Tenders close at 4 p.m. on 16th August, 1938.
ROBERT HILL,
Cl o MESSRS. SMITH, JOHNSON & CO.,
Public Accountants,
14 Castlereagh Street. Sydnev
In the matter of the Companies Act 1931
(Qld.) and in the matter of Barnes Pty.,
Limited, in Voluntary Liquidation.
TENDERS are invited and will be received at
the Office of the Liquidator, Estates Chambers,
108 Creek Street, Brisbane, up to and including
the 15th day of September, 1938, for the pur-
chase of the undernoted assets of the Company.
(«) Policy of Life Assurance No. 601698 issued
by the National Mutual Life Associa-
tion of Australasia, Limited, in force and
insuring the life of C. M. Barnes and vest-
ing in favor of the Company.
Annual premium, £101/10/-.
Sum assured, £3000.
Reversionary bonuses to September 15,
1938, £828.
Surrender value at September 15, 1938,
( b) Improved freehold property fronting
Wickham Street, Gotha Street, Warren
Street and Barry Parade, Fortitude Valley,
Brisbane—an area of 1 acre 7 51/100
perches.
Improvements <?n part of the Wickham
Warren Street frontages comprise a subs
tial brick building with iron roof, '
loundation, walls and outbuilding at
—two floors and basement. Also adjoii
in Wickham Street, good building cont
ing two floors and basement, and i
storeyed building with basement fron
corner of Gotha Street and Wickham Sti
City Council valuation of the whole (ur
proved basis, £14,140).
The property is offered for tender Sut
to the existing leases, a schedule of wl
can be obtained from the Liquidator r
derers must be prepared to pay cash
the amount of their tender on or be
November 15, 1938. The above°descr
freehold property is at present subject
mortgage to the National Mutua
Association ot Australasia, Limited w
Company is prepared to make reason
highest or any tender not * '
accepted.
LANCE A. JONES,
108 Creek Street, Brisbane.
Liquidator.
Mick Simmons'
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
LIONEL 818 BY, famous Rifle and Revolver Shot,
and acknowledged authority on Firearms and
Ballistics, is attached to the staff of the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail, themselves to the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice.
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
?
No. I—THE MAINE RIFLE, 22-
cal., bolt action, V-back sight;
for short, long or long-rifle cart
ridges. Round barrel, 1 Bin. long,
bored and rifled with the same
care as the military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate; nn /*»
weight, about 3 Jib.
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/G.
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 27in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front Ic
sight; weight, about 4 Jib. tV/D
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 46—COOEY “MOHAWK.”
,22-cal., single-shot, for short,
long or long-rifle cartridges.
27in. barrel, walnut stock,
pistol grip, convexed, elevating
rear and silver bead »
front sight; weight, 61b.
Postage 2/-; Other States, 3/C.
No. 16—WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 62, ,22-cal, 20-
shot, 23in. round barrel,
plain trigger, straight
grip, ladder rear sights,
slide action; magazine
handles 20 short, 16
long, or 14 long-rifle
cartridges; weight, about
5 Jib. CKIC.I
Price £5/5/-
Carriage Paid.
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
?
| No. S—HOLLIS D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.,
top lever, 32in. barrels, both choke, bar
locks, crossbolt, walnut stock; weight,
about 71b. £l2/17/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 25— IVOR JOHNSON D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G., 3 2 in.
barrels; both full choke top lever cross-
bolt; Anson & Deeley action. Tested
for nitro powders; weight,
about 81b
Carriage Paid.
£B/10/-
SPECIAL CLEARANCE!
COMBINATION D.B. GUN AND RIFLE
—12 G., top lever, 30in. gun barrel,
choke, 32 W.C.F. rifle barrel, three-leaf
rear sight, bead front sight, pistol grip;
weight, about B|lb. £"T
Originally £ 1 2/1 2/-. Now dtf ' |/ /U
Carriage Paid.
WESTLEY RICHARDS D.8.8.L. HAM-
MERLESS GUN — I 2G., top lever 32in.
steel barrels, full choke, crossbolt, pistol
grip, chamber for cartridges;
weight, about 7£lb. 0 4 0
Originally £22/10/-. Now.. I€ 9
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehend.* e
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
points. Geelong, Richmond and Mel-
bourne are fighting it out for the other
positions in “the four.”
A “four” without Collingwood will be
strange, but Victoria seems likely to
witness it this season. Richmond downed
’Wood 11-10 to 9-9. Melbourne was
hard pressed by Fitzroy, 14-12 to 14-9 ;
but Geelong had little difficulty in beat-
ing North Melbourne, 15-16 to 7-9.
Carlton, 11-16, won again from Essert-
don, 10-16. Footscray, 17-14, had a day
out against Hawthorn, 4-7; and St.
Kilda checked South Melbourne, 10-12
to 7-12. ’Scray is playing very fine foot-
ball this year.
In the first of the Association semi-
finals, Northcote came to light in the
second half and outstayed Prahran to
win, 11-14 to 9-11.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The East Fremantle foot-
ballers, who drew a 6000 crowd in
allegedly Rugby-obsessed Sydney, went
home loud in their complaints of their
treatment in Melbourne. They met a
St. Kilda-Melbourne combination before
a handful of spectators who paid just
over £2O at the gates. The arrangements
for the match by the V.F.L. were casual
to the limit. No programme showing the
names and places of the players was
published, and there was the scantiest ad-
vertising. Speechifying after the game,
some of the Westerners did not hesitate
to give the League the rough side of
their tongues, and contrasted their recep-
tion with that Westralia recently accorded
the St. Kilda team in Perth, where they
found huge crowds and fat gates.
* # * *
“Hotham”: The refusal of the V.F.L.
to allow the V.F.A. the use of Melbourne
C.G. for two dates on which it is only
playing second-eighteen matches itself
has assumed almost national importance.
The Association appealed to the Minister
for Lands and finally to the Premier, but
both found themselves helpless in face of
the fact that the M.C.G. trust has sold
outright to the League for the football
season. Parliament then took a hand,
and when this was written a ferocious
debate was raging. One debater appealed
to the League’s sportsmanship, but that
seems to be of the same brand as that
of N.S.W. Rugby League, which has re-
fused use of Sydney C.G. for two games
with the visiting Indian Soccer players,
though the ground is wanted only for
unimportant club games.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Once more a strong drive
is being made by a Melbourne section to
abolish inter-State matches. This section
says that League club games are more
important and pay much better, whereas
the absence of important players on
inter-State trips is a dashed nuisance to
the dividend hounds of the clubs. Veteran
Mick Rush is strongly opposing the idea.
He rightly points out that abolition of
inter-State football means abolition of
the League Council, which controls the
game in Australia, and that would mean
that each State would go its own way,
make its owrt rules and perhaps be eaten
up by the big, bad wolves of Rugby or
Soccer.
* * * *
The All-Blacks beat Newcastle, 39-16,
with a team of spare parts. Wing three-
quarter Dick, left behind in M.L. with
measles, has rejoined the team. It is
asserted that none of the All-Black
wingers we have seen to date is a patch
on him, so someone is in for a lively
time.
At Brisbane the All-Blacks defeated
Queensland 30-9—6 tries, 4 converted,
and a dropped goal to a try and 2 penalty
goals. The locals put up a good showing
in the first half with a gale behind them,
scores being then 10-6 against them. In the
second spell they were overrun, though
the forwards, as in the first half,, made
a valiant fight of it. The tourists play
Darling Downs at Toowoomba to-day.
The Australian team to meet the All-
Blacks in the second Test at Brisbane
has been rebuilt: Rankin (N.S.W.);
Moran (N.S.W.), Carpenter (V.), Lewis
and Hayes (Q.); Collins and Ramalli
(N.S.W.); Oxlade, McDonald, Wilson
and Monti (Q.), Stone, Hodgson, Kelly
(N.S.W.), and Lang (Vic.). It reads a
great improvement on the side outclassed
in Sydney.
* * # *
Sydney grade teams got back to their
premiership matches on Saturday. Rand-
wick, notching three tries to East’s two,
won 14-11, and went another point
further away from others on the table
when West, second previously, failed
against St. George. Saints began the
season with five losses in a row, but have
been headed only once since, and now
move into second place. Full-back Clif-
ford’s kicking for goal gave them the
edge on West, which managed two tries
(both the Ramalli youngster’s) to Saints’
one, but was downed 13-9. Fourth on
the list, just below West, come Manly,
Parramatta, Drummoyne and North.
Manly was ditched 11-9 (two tries each)
by Gordon; Parramatta (24) rattled up
six tries and more than doubled Norths'
11 points, while Drummoyne proved too
tough for University, 11-6.
* * * *
“Hooker”: The first Test match be-
tween Australia and the All-Blacks was
the 26th ; M.L. has won 17 and Australia
seven, two being drawn. Eighteen of these
games have been played in Australia ;
M.L. won 10, Australia six and two were
drawn. There was a long blank between
1914 and 1929, Queensland dropping out
of the R.U. code until the latter year,
so that N.S.W. had to take on All-Black
teams on its own. It was not until 1903
that Australia v. M.L. Test matches were
played. Before that visiting All-Blacks
encountered Queensland and N.S.W. sides
separately.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The failure of half-back
Stone for Australia against the All-
Blacks, following, as it did, an even
worse showing for N.S.W. against the
visitors, calls attention to the obsession
of N.S.W. and Australian selectors with
“experience.” Stone was shoved in
ahead of Ramalli, one of the finest ex-
schoolboy halves seen for years, and
though coach Wallace notoriously pre-
ferred the young ’un, who has played a
season’s senior football, he was ignored.
One notes, nowadays, the cricket selec-
tors following the same lead, forgetful
of Trumper and others of callow age
but ripe ability. In Britain no selector
cares a hang for the age question. Wool-
ley, rated the finest centre three Wales
has seen since Gwynn Nicholls, played
his first international when barely 17 and
fresh from school. In Scotland it is no
uncommon thing to see a player still at
Fettes, Edinburgh Academy, or some
other great school in the Scottish team.
Queensland in the past has taken the
same sensible view. That great centre
three H. P. Abbott played for the State
against the N.Z. Native side and N.S.W.
while still at Brisbane Grammar, and so
did Tom Bell, who, while walking Lon-
don hospitals, came close to catching an
England cap before he was 21.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Many old-time Rugbyites
learned with regret of the death in Syd-
ney, at 69, of E. (“Happy”) Eyre. A
fine forward in his day, “Happy” came
into prominence with the old Union
Glebe club —the “Dirty Reds”—in the
’nineties, and played for N.S.W. against
M.L. in 1894, when the Light Blues won
8-6 at Christchurch. He was a “charac-
ter,” and made and kept many friends
long after his playing career ended.
Legends of his sayings and doings still
linger among the veterans of the game.
Frank Eyre, the professional golfer, a
son, wore the N.S.W. guernsey against
Queensland in 1919, his only showing in
inter-State Rugby.
Miscellaneous
The Australian Davis Cuppers had
little trouble in defeating Mexico at
Kansas City. On Friday Quist and
Bromwich polished off Hernandez and
Tapia in the opening singles, scoring 6-1,
7-5, 6-4 and 6-4, 6-4, 6-4 respectively,
and on Saturday the Australians took
the doubles from the Mexican pair, 6-0,
6-1, 6-3. The winners now meet Japan,
Yamagishi and Nakano having beaten
Canada in the first singles and the
doubles. Scores in the doubles were 6-3,
3-6, 6-3, 7-5.
* * * *
“Marino”: There are 114 entrants for
the Australian open, amateur and pro-
fessional golf championships, which start
at Seaton (S.A.) on August 13. The home
State with 40 leads the list, 12 of the 40
being professionals. Victoria is next with
39 (nine pros.) and N.S.W. third with 21
(12 pros.). Queensland has 13 (six pros.)
and Tassie one solitary pro. Westralia has
given the meeting a miss.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Von Nida, hot on
his task of cleaning up all the profes-
sional prizes in N.S.W., had his comb
cut by V. Richardson, who downed him
for the Slazenger Purse at Concord by
four strokes, though the ex-Queenslander
finished two under par. Von Nida goes
to the U.S.A. in October for the “winter
circuit,” wherein professionals chase the
big money. Von will have neither intro-
ductions nor manager, and may have a
tough time breaking into the magic circle
of Yankee pros. Sarazen has told us
some lurid tales of his early experiences,
and Lawson Little was given a rough spin
when he had won the British open.
■Jf * *
“Brassey”: R. A. Whitcombe won’t
come to Australia with Bobby Locke.
Whitcombe pleads pressure of business,
which means that he must bustle about
picking up the plums that have come
his way as winner of the British open
title. Promoters are now chasing an-
other Whitcombe, a nephew of the cham-
pion, who is regarded as a rising star,
and it is possible that a woman profes-
sional may join the party. Finding her
will be the trouble, for British lady pros,
do not so much play the game for pay
as to advertise feminine golf wear and
gear for the big dealers.


Medical.
MEDICAL PRACTICE (vacant by death) for
sale at North Qld. country town on rail. 9000
pop., elevation 1000 ft. Net av. income £lOOO.
Price £5OO. Residence also for sale. Apply
Professional Practices Sales Agency, Griffiths
House Box 1052, G.P.0., Brisbane.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
The Great Bed Outbreak.
A leading sufferer from insomnia esti-
mates that of the last 1000 films screened
in Sydney talkie houses 994 have had
beds in them. Full of indignation, he
writes:
On behalf of fellow insomnia victims
I wish to protest against this form of
cruelty being heaped upon our already
grievous enough suffering. It should
need no saying that the mere sight of a
bed is torture to us. Most fellow-
sufferers with whom I have communicated
on this matter have pointed out that
they—as I do myself—go to the pictures
as a form of treatment for our trouble.
Thousands all over Australia and Maori-
land have secured at least temporary
relief by this means —in the past, that
is; before this present increasing use of
beds in films turned the talkie houses,
as far as we are concerned, into torture
chambers every bit as bad as the bed-
rooms from which we had hitherto
merely gone to the pictures in order to
escape.
The thing has become so bad in re-
cent weeks that we can only conclude
that Hollywood and other picture-making
centres have suddenly come under the
domination of persons who have taken
on themselves the devilish mission of per-
secuting insomnia sufferers throughout
the world. These films are aimed at us.
We cannot accept the supposition that
the object may be merely that of show-
ing young females in bed. True, the
beds may be thus occupied, but the
camera is always kept so long focused
on the hateful object—that is, of course,
the bed that the fact that a young
woman may happen to be in the bed
would surely be only coincidental. To
us insomnia victims what may be in a
bed is of no account; the mere sight
of the bed itself is so downright hateful
that the bed holds our whole attention
riveted in a most cruel form of fas-
cination, like unfortunate frogs held by
the baleful sight of a serpent.
Therefore, we have to take it for
granted that those who don’t suffer as
we do are not simply pulling our legs
when they declare that it is not the bed
but its occupant which is the real point
of interest in such films. Persons of this
sort tell us that there is no other purpose
than to show a girl in bed ; they say
that if we were not so obsessed as we
are with the sight of the bed we would
notice that invariably the girl throws
aside the blankets and sheets and lies
there for an appreciable time in what
is known as an effective posture. Then
she gets out of the bed, always pulling
up her nightdress well above her knees
in order to put on her slippers, and then
stands and looks at the camera with
the clinging nightdress showing off her
form in complete detail, the material of
the nightdresses being, in addition to
clinging, usually transparent, irrespective
of the weather.
They admit, however, that this exhibi-
tion never at any time has any bearing
whatever on the story.
Therefore, we ask, what possible object
can it have? If the purpose is to display
the female figure, why display it in rela-
tionship with that most hateful of all
objects of household furniture, a bed?
Neither can we accept the conclusion of
certain wowsers of our acquaintance that
the entire purpose is a salacious one.
Surely we can trust our film censors to
see that nothing of that kind is put over
in films.
Besides, if the object is simply to show
females in a state of undress lying about
or standing in attitudes in which they
are not usually seen, why introduce beds
for the purpose? In all these films the
same females are to be seen in the same
sort of attitudes on couches, which from
our viewpoint are detestable enough
items of furniture but pleasant objects
compared with beds. There are a thou-
sand other ways in which the female
figure can be —and is—thoroughly dis-
played, without this resort.
No; we must reject the hypothesis
that the prevailing bed outbreak is
salacious in intent. There have been beds
in almost every film screened over the
past three weeks. It seems impossible to
go to the pictures any longer without
seeing the things. Surely this is no result
of a mere attempt to traffic in salacity.
We repeat: the purpose is not to show
females in bed ; it is to show the beds.
These films, we again insist, are aimed
at us. On behalf of fellow insomnia
victims, is it too much to hope that film
critics will henceforth add a note for
our benefit as to whether a film reviewed
has or has not a bed in it?
Wallace Beery .
"The Bad Man of Brimstone
This Sydney State offering is extra-
good Mr. Beery all the way. With his
sleeves rolled up, a gun on each hip and
the cognomen of Trigger Bill, he’s fair
at the top of his form.
Mr. Beery’s gringo offsider is worthy
of the grand company he keeps: his
“Life eet is over before eet begin,” or a
Wallace Beery after stopping a fine right from Denis O’Keefe, in “The Bad Man
of Brimstone” at Sydney State.
comment to that effect, has a classic
touch as he does it. Black Jack is an-
other original; a splendid specimen—
a sort of Canadian Mountie gone bad.
The hero is some six and a half feet in
his socks of clean-shaven Galahad. The
goil is fair and sweet, and her pop, the
damn’ sinner, is noble at heart. Every
one of the citizens of Brimstone is good
and tough and looks it.
But Mr. Beery o’erstrides ’em all like
a Colossus. Good as the other characters
and the doings are, they are mainly there
as a surround for that vast and uncouth
bulk. He’s louder in the voice, quicker
on the draw, shrewder in the top-piece
than all of ’em together.
Without him it would be just an
ornery Western. Everything that has
ever done good service in Westerns is in
it. There’s plenty honest two-gun shoot-
ing ; Bad Man of Brimstone is proved
to be father of newchum hero by picture
of hero’s mother which hero carries
pasted in his watch. Saloon drinking
and gambling, silvermine rush, horses at
the gallop and a bit of cattle thievery
eke it out. Then, near the finish, they
shoot it out in the street, leaving more
corpses strewn round than the final scene
of “Hamlet.”
To wind up there’s a wedding, with
Trigger Bill (now fugitive from the new-
fangled justice his own son has intro-
duced into good old Brimstone) watch-
ing from the shadows outside.
The sheer force of Mr. Beery’s robust
personality turns all this into an out-
standing open-air action film. As a brisk
and breezy entertainer it would be extra
hard to beat.
P.S.—There’s no bed in it; at least, not
what you’d call a bed, and, anyhow,
only a scrubby sheriff occupies it.
“Nurse from Brooklyn.”
Young cove has just done three years
in reformatory covering up for chum
who’s a real bad lot. On night good
lad comes out bad lot tries to put him on
the wide and crooked path.
No, no, says good lad, I’m goin’
straight. Stick ’em up, says nitwit cop,
stepping out into patch of light from
where he’s been hiding behind a couple
of bales listening to ’em.
Bang, bang, goes bad lot’s gun; bang,
bang, bang!
Good lad takes his issue in back,
fatally; cop’s knocked unconscious.
Good lad’s sister nurses cop; bad lot
tells her it was cop shot her brother.
Sister shuts teeth with firm crunch,
elevates chin 2ft. 6|in., swears she’ll
help bad lot avenge late-lamented
brother.
Cop gives sister copy of “Omar,” falls
in love with sister. Sister reads “Omar,”
falls in love with cop.
Cop takes sister off by arrangement
with his boss to seaside cottage, con-
valescing. Sister has bullet that was
taken from her late brother. Dog pinches
sister’s bag, runs off playfully. Cop
chases dog, catches Fido. Bag flies open,
out pops bullet.
Back to town goes cop, with bullet.
Sister, putting two and two together and
making it add up to bad lot’s telephone
number, rings bad lot to warn him.
Other cops have line plugged, listen-in.
Courage, folks, there’s only another
hour of it.
Right-oh, you can wake up now. Bad
lot has just stopped bang, bang and fallen
backwards out of window. Cop has ex-
plained to sister; that’s the pair of them
clinching there now. Isn’t it pretty!
P.S. —It’s at Sydney State. Yes, there’s
a bed in it, and no key to girl’s door.
Oh, tut tut!
More English Films.
The outbreak of English films, noted
here a week or so back, continues un-
abated. Three of those then mentioned
were considerable flops. The Jack Hul-
bert and the Jessie Matthews efforts
passed out in no time, kicking faintly.
The screen version of “Over She Goes”
lasted only a week.
They weren’t as bad as all that; the
Matthews film, at least, merited a better
hearing. On the other hand, the George
Formby pleasantry is at time of writing
still going strong at Sydney Lyceum. It
deserves success, for George has never
been in better fettle. Even so, it’s a re-
markable run, since even Formby addicts
must find George only barely just com-
pensation for the support that goes with
him.
Proof both that they can make excel-
lent pictures in England and that when
they do and send them this way such
films are sure of a good hearing is to be
still at Sydney Century, where
The Divorce of Lady X” was filling
the place with louder and louder gurgles
when these pages went to the printer. It’s
an exquisite film; lovely in its color
and as funny as they make ’em. It
must be among the very finest English
pictures made. Its sort would easily
hold the English fort in Australia against
any opposition whatever.
N-B. There’s bed in it; in fact, it’s
mostly bed. But, our insomniac friend
earlier on this page notwithstanding, it’s
a corking entertainer.
Sydney Mayfair, which housed (momen-
tarily) the Hulbert and Matthews efforts,
now has an English comedy just about
as funny as the “Lady X” opus—a sup-
port entitled “School for Husbands.”
It s a polished and witty juggling with
the jealousy theme: two jealous hus-
bands, very handsome interloper, one
wife who has freely fallen for inter-
loper, other wife who thinks herself safe
from his appeal and finds she isn’t so im-
pervious as she thought. Very lightly
done, it makes tiptop pleasant entertain-
ment.
Main Mayfair offering is another Eng-
lish film—an affair called “The Sky’s
the Limit,” in which Jack Buchanan
dithers through a silly lot of tosh, and
awfullay snobbish tosh at that.
P.S.—Much bed in this bill. Indeed,
English filmsmiths are, if anything, more
obsessed with the bed motif than their
Hollywooden brethren. Therefore, since
there isn’t, as far as can be recalled, a
bill of any Sydney talkie house at the
moment that hasn’t bed in it, final advice
to insomniacs who can’t bear the sight of
such things is to keep away from the
pictures these nights.
“Personal Appearance”
There was a pink glamor-girl 12ft. high
on stilts or something in Sydney Royal
foyer, but even that wasn’t the most
beautiful moment of this entertaining
evening. It came when Frank Bradley
explained that Betty Balfour—as an
exotic film-star fluttering from affair to
affair—had tired of her cowboy-actor
flame and had penitently “given him back
to his horse.”
There were other such moments —
notably a remark about “babes in the
wood”—that made it worth sitting
through a rather long-winded second act
for the bright third.
The play’s a curious mixture of good
comedy and laborious farce, straight act-
ing and caricature. Betty Balfour is
Carole Arden, a film-star doing personal
appearances round Amurrican country
theatres. Bradley’s her agent, Gene
Tuttle. Car breaks down at filling-
station and guest-house, and Carole tries
to loot a nice quiet gurrul’s dumb, rugged
filling-stationman.
Oddments (all genuine bargains) in-
clude a comic two-fisted aunt, a refained
and interfering mother, a mechanic as
tough and oily as a crankshaft, and a
film-struck maiden who knocks her knees
too much.
Bradley’s Tuttle makes the show.
Every time he comes on stage, wisecrack-
ing and cynical, he jacks it up from the
mildly amusing to the hilarious.
The first act, after an unusual opening
with a snatch of a film in which Carole
has starred, settles down to cumbrous
explanations ; who is who, why they’re
who and why whoever is anywhere is
anywhere. Then Tuttle and Carole burst
in and the play really gets going. Next
act drags a bit because there’s too much
of Carole’s clever wooing of the hick,
but the last act is brilliant. Carole, her
film-parts in mind, rehearses “Carole
Arden, great film-star, renouncing love
for sake of her man’s gurrul and little
cheild”; having rehearsed it, she does
it beautifully, in spite of the minor handi-
caps of hick’s not having the faintest
idea what it’s all about and little cheild
being merely a Tuttle brainwave.
Mae West recently did the piece as a
talkie.
Sydney Town Hall Shows .
Dr. Malcolm Sargent waved the baton
over A.B.C. Symphony Orchestra at Syd-
ney Town Hall on Saturday night.
The programme was a curious mixture.
Most important item was Brahms’s
Fourth (E Minor) Symphony. Conductor
Sargent, like his namesake of the palette,


Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations „ 15
Sheep bought . . >, 20
Wire netting » 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared,
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1938 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and your account book w'll be forwarded to you.
Sim YOURSELF
IX THE
F^LCS
ON THE
\
A.
cr
rient Line
ise to tin
• • •
BY OTRANTO
K
(20,000 TONS)
LATE IN AUGUST
Commencing Brisbane, ending Sydney. Fares include steamer or rail ticket Sydney-Brisbanc
after Cruise.
Illustrated folder giving full details of the four cruises to New Zealand.
Late October, Christmas, New Year, Late January, supplied on request.
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD.
Incorporated in England
293
believes in bold strokes. He seizes on
the salient features of a composition and
makes them emphatic and striking. There
are portions of Brahms’s long and elabor-
ate orchestral essay that lend themselves
to such treatment, and these had poetic
life and fire, but in between there was
a good deal of prose.
The big orchestral success of the even-
ing was not the magnificence of Brahms
but the simplicity of Gabriel Faure’s
“Pavane,” a piece with something of that
pseudo-exotic flavor found so often in
the works of Russian composers, such
as Cesar Cui and Rimsky-Korsakov. In
addition the faded elegance of Weber’s
“Oberon” overture was attractively pre-
sented, and there was a performance of
the “William Tell” overture which did
full justice to the concluding gallop,
sometimes called a march.
A much-advertised feature of the con-
cert, a performance of Ibert’s saxophone
concerto, brought to the fore Sigurd
Rascher as soloist. The saxophone is an
instrument with unfortunate associations,
and though Mr. Rascher tootles it as
mellifluously and as rapidly as anyone
could desire he didn’t reconcile this critic
to the notion that it is an inspiring solo
voice.
Ibert’s cleverly orchestrated composi-
tion demonstrates, more than anything
else, the vast difficulty of making a saxo-
phone sound anything but ridiculous in
highfalutin company.
However, Mr. Rascher earned an
encore and played a simple Swedish folk-
song melody very prettily.
With the Taits and A.B.C. alternately
exhibiting excellent import goods there,
Sydney Town Hall has this winter pro-
vided a steady change from the talkies
which are otherwise almost the entire
theatre on offer.
Tibbett was back last week, as enter-
taining as ever. Here under the Tait
direction, he has been an outstanding
success. He breaks widely from the
former tradition which stiffly barred
humor from the concert platform. Sing-
ing finely, he enlivens his show with a
good dash of comedy and makes a
thoroughly pleasant evening of it. He
is due to make his final bow to Sydney-
siders to-morrow (Thursday) afternoon.
Under A.B.C. direction, Tauber was
fixing his tie to take over about the time
these pages went to press. He will be
holding the platform and the attention
of radio listeners for the next week or
two.
Loma Lautour 9 s Sculpture.
Hitherto the work of this talented
woman sculptor has been exhibited, two
or three pieces at a time, at the annual
shows of various societies.
The more representative collection now
on view at the Castlereagh Galleries,
Sydney, brings out the versatility of the
artist. She gets a lot of character into
heads, masks and busts, as witness
“Jane,” reproduced here.
There is nothing niggling about the
modelling, and the touch is sure, while
there is a sense of humor in some of the
exhibits.
Some of the nude figures are very
graceful particularly a reduced-size
female dancer, “Grace,” and the rather
unusually posed “Sunbather.” Plaques,
“Jane,” in Loma Lautour's show
of sculpture at the Castlereagh
Gallery, Sydney.
panels and tabletops in low relief are
pleasingly designed, and there is some
gorgeous tapestry. A couple of lino-cuts
are prettily designed.
Royal Art Society 9 s Show.
Though frequently “by schisms rent
asunder, by heresies distressed,” the
Royal Art Society of N. S. Wales, now
holding its 59th annual show in the Edu-
cation Department’s Galleries, Sydney,
has survived all storms and continues to
command the allegiance of some of the
best painters in Australia. Throughout
its current exhibition, and particularly
on those walls usually dedicated by
societies to the work of their least im-
portant members, there is evidence that
some standard of competence has to be
observed by exhibitors.
The oils section contains some notable
pictures. Syd. Long is represented by
four color symphonies in the form of
landscapes. Fred Leist follows his latest
preference for semi-symbolic figure
studies in “Sun Worshippers” and “White
Gum.” President Lister Lister repeats
his oldest theme in “White Gums of
New England” as genially as ever. J. S.
Watkins appears in many roles. His
“Picnickers” is a jocund outdoor scene,
“The Sunshade” is a nice decorative
splash of color, there are some care-
ful portraits, and “Palaeontological
Anachronisms” is a saturnalia of nude
figures, somewhat in the Norman Lindsay
vein. Dattilo Rubbo shows a strikingly
composed portrait, “Repose.”
Lyall Trindall, who combines the graces
of the old classical school with the clever-
est of modern technique, is at his best
in “Golden Hours,” a child study, and
in a child portrait, “Ken.” “Romance,”
his biggest canvas, has rhythm and move-
ment, but gives an impression of trite-
ness. Joe Salvana has never bettered
“White-box and Sheep” —an excellent
landscape. Albert Sherman juggles with
all sorts of colors and textures in various
flower and other still-life studies and
subdues them into rich harmonies. Will
Ashton has a couple of European water-
pieces—“Pont Royal, Paris,” and “Quay-
side, Algeciras”—in his most vigorous
style.
H. A. Hanke, who came up like a
rocket, shows no signs of coming down
like the stick. He is improving his treat-
ment of the hardest sort of figure studies,
and the costume piece “Carmen” and
“Frasquita” are his best in that line to
date. “Sylvia” is a nice smooth por-
trait. Erik Langker’s landscapes and
coastal pieces are boldly painted. Alfred
Coffey’s huge canvas “Near the Gap,
South Head, Sydney,” is everywhere well
handled. Howard Barron’s best piece is
a landscape with a dramatic sky, “Land
of Drought and Sudden Rains.” John
Allcot provides a spirited painting of a
clipper ship in full sail.
Among younger members, Normand
Baker gets a difficult effect very cleverly
in “The Mirror” and Lance Solomon
emphasises the beauties of greys in some
woodland pieces. R. McKechnie, from
Adelaide, shows a lot of promise in
“Reed Beds” and Alan D. Baker has a
nice study of a Maori girl. Mary
Edwards is represented by some charac-
teristic heads.
In water-colors the all-round standard
is high. Some of the best work is shown
by Cecil Bostock, Laura Booth, Mar-
jorie Arnold, Wilfred Gates, Walter
Dowman and W. E. Tristram.
Etchings of the Sydney waterside by
Cedric Emanuel are, are usual, com-
mendable, Douglas Pratt has some fine
pencil-work and L. G. Jordan, a new-
comer, some striking penwork in a tech-
nique rather like Jardine’s.
Myer Free Concert.
Original idea for Melbourne free con-
certs under the Sidney Myer bequest was
to have them out of doors.
Fritz Hart was enlisted, programmes
were given in the Botanical Gardens and
citizens attended in thousands.
This plan had to be abandoned be-
cause ducks squawked, swans engaged
in battle, birds twitted, feet scraped on
gravel footpaths, babies and buzzing
aeroplanes joined in the proceedings, and
Zeus threw a final spanner in with a
sudden rainstorm. Hart went off to
Honolulu.
Latest of these concerts was held in
Melb. Town Hall. Conductor William
Mallinson struggled to put vigor into the
proceedings,, but had apparently not been
given enough opportunities for rehearsal.
Kirsten with Orch.
Kirsten Flagstad’s first appearance
with orchestra in Melbourne packed the
Town Hall for a Wagnerian programme,;
but although she sang with rare artistry
and feeling, the audience, remembering
Austral’s more dramatic methods, didn’t
rise to the full pitch of enthusiasm until
the accomplished diva made a mistake
without precedent in local musical his-
tory.
In the middle of the long introduction
to Elisabeth’s Greeting to the Hall of
Song from “Tannhauser,” everybody was
astounded to hear the singer emit a
phrase, abruptly shutting her mouth when
conductor Joseph Post gave her a dig
with his elbow.
Post and orchestra went on with the
business without losing their heads about
it, and when the Flagstad took her right
cue the song was brought to a satisfac-
tory conclusion, audience being enrap-
tured at finding that a great artist was
capable of making a mistake they might
have made themselves ; the fellow-feel-
ing thus engendered would have carried
her through the rest of the evening even
if her singing of Isolde’s “Liebestod”
and other numbers had not been so mag-
nificent.
Post had his men on their toes in the
lovely “Lohengrin” Vorspiel, but did not
present a revitalised Wagner.


The Kichardson Chain Hotel
kf
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
FLUSH ACID
POISON OUT
OF KIDNEYS
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter,
the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters be-
come clogged with poisonous waste and the
danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition, brought about by poor
kidney function, is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg
pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. , .
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters. If these tubes or filters be-
come clogged with poisons, it may lay you up
for many months. Don’t run any risk. Make
sure your kidneys empty 3 pints a day.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
“Personal Appearance” opened with a
bang at the Theatre Royal last week. The
men on the door wore blue facings on
their coats, and programmes were sold
in the vestibule by girls in yellow satin
bouffant frocks. An orchestra of women
players made blithe music in the pas-
sage near the upstairs cloakrooms. Flood-
lights cunningly arranged on this deck
beat down on the vestibule. On the dress-
circle landing there was a big girl-doll
in a souffle of yellow lace and tulle, her
arms, with their lace sleeves starting just
below the elbows, outstretched in wel-
come.
Bowls of stocks and gladioli on giant
stems were everywhere. Before the cur-
tain went up the conductor of the orches-
tra sported a red mess jacket; white coats
gleamed on the other members of the
orchestra. Later they were all black, like
the Maoriland footballers. The surrounds
smacked of ade luxe cinema. Probably
that was because the play blows lightly,
though somehow not merrily, around a
picture actress.
Betty Balfour is a dainty little dish.
She is of ethereal lightness, but a pick
more flesh on the arms would be no
drawback to her personal appearance. A
sheath of vivid blue sequins, with a
tongue of train, the skirt slit in front,
had for accompaniment anemone-pink
long gloves, the color caught up by the
orchids on one shoulder-strap. In quick
succession, as the determined-to-be-glam-
orous screen star, Miss Balfour slides into
silver lame dripping with silver-fox, a
roseate neglige with ostrich feather crop.
There’s a white-and-black ensemble
that suggested, if this Letter hasn’t lost
her psychic powers, summer outfits to
at least 50 women. But the really breath-
taking outfit mixes bright green and a
blue that has a lot of violet in it. The
full-length coat is green, lined with the
blue which occurs again in the frock. A
tiny pancake of a straw hat in green and
blue is jaunty with upstanding wings.
Very attractive were the small white
flowers outlining the square neckline of
Mrs. E. J. Tait’s black chiffons. Mrs. F.
Pfeiffer’s frock gleamed silverly under
her fur cape. Jane Connolly, as pretty
as a picture, her soft voice clear to the
back of the circle, looked true in the
part of the young country girl, and was
watched anxiously by mother. Mrs. Sep
Levy was an exquisite little figure in
black chiffons brightly flowered.
Loud applause and a pleasantly warm
atmosphere brought the purr of pleasure
from orchestra and audience at the Town
Hall when Malcolm Sargent raised his
baton once again. The orchestra likes
working with this conductor. Leader
Lionel Lawson seemed wafted on a wave
of content. Valda Aveling, so soon to
go abroad, a concert grand, so to speak,
her raft to fame, wore a chiffon frock,
dovelike in its simplicity, when she
played the piano part of the Rachmanin-
off concerto. All the ladies of the Sym-
phony Orchestra committee were present,
and as most of these had been interested
in Valda’s progress, there were many
presents of flowers for the clever teen-old.
The Jordan lady was there, her blue
velvets caped in white fox fur. Black
lace went with mink in Mark Sheldon’s
wife’s frocking, and a gold shimmer was
that worn by Mrs. Leon Lyons. Mary
Lang, of Cooma, wore the green and gold
of Eire. Mrs. Bertie Kelly wore her hair
dressed high, and was red velvet in dress
and coat. Mrs. Venour Nathan, Nedra
Ryrie, a pretty girl in pink, and Ryder
Swinson were there ; so was Mrs. Walter
Swinson, her black chiffons brightly
flowered. Mrs. Alan Foott, of Melbourne,
wore pale pink laces with distinction.
Father and mother General and Mrs.
Anderson brought a party. Another
visitor from Melbourne was Mrs. Claude
Couchman in a frock of flowered romaine.
A.B.C.’s chairman Cleary and Mrs.
Cleary smiled over the night’s success.
Pamela Laidley Dowling, Noreen Dangar
and the Alexander Gordon lady were
others in the crowds who streamed
in seemingly never-ending procession
through the doorways.
There wasn't only ice on the floor,
there was icing on the cake when the
English hockey girls were entertained at
the Palais Ice Rink. The cake was a
special one, and the icing was blue be-
cause blue is the N.S.W. women’s hockey
color. The members of the English team
are all good skaters, and took to the
floor with the equivalent of cheers. The
management of the Palais spread itself
to give the visitors a grand tea-party,
and the girls loved the position of
the tables. These were right on the
rink. Mrs. F. J. Davy, secretary for all
hockey activities, can and did flourish
a happy skate herself. The visitors have
been guests at “Personal Appearance,”
and have been to Koala Park, the Zoo
and other showplaces around the city.
The English girls had never played
hockey by night till their arrival in Syd-
ney, so they were given a practice game
by the Lustre girls’ team. They played
for the first time under the bright glare
of the floodlights at Rushcutter Bay.
Just as this Letter was struggling into
its pink overall the Town Hall was glit-
tersome with a party. This was the first
“mixed” at-home in the Town Hall’s
history. It started at 5.30, and the drinks
as well as the sexes were mixed. About
three hundred had been invited, and all
breezed along. The corridor and balcony
outside the drawing-rooms had been en-
closed with bunting and set about with
palms, and had rather the look of an
unreserved conservatory. Even the flower
shortage made no serious drawback to
the decorations, although perhaps more
greenery was used than is customary.
The idea of this late-afternoon party
seemed popular, and at the buffets which
popped up every here and there the vot-
ing was all for it.
Greet Valma Sullivan, poet of the
piano, who is off to London having first
won the Woolley . Scholarship of the
Royal vSchool of Music, London. This
covers three years and carries £5O a year.
But it is this young girl’s brilliant record
in the 1938 Eisteddfod that has stimu-
lated public interest in the furtherance
of her career. She carried off the
under-21 championship, the open-to-all-
ages championship, and, proudest of all,
was awarded first place in the Bach
prelude and fugue, open to entrants
of all ages. In doing this she but re-
peated her successes in the 1936 Eistedd-
fod. In each instance the judges re-
marked on her revealing interpretations.
Last Monday the Society of Australian
Composers and Authors called a meet-
ing in the Carlton Hotel to consider
ways of helping a fund to launch this
young Australian. Photograph from
Falk.
Lawrence Tibbett made the Town Hall
ring still once again with grand music
last Thursday night. This was the smiling
baritone’s farewell to his evening audi-
ences, and he sang on and on till it was
almost eleven before “Glory Road”
resonantly closed the concert. Packed
rows and rows of humans crackled into
a surflike applause. The singer’s wife
was one of many well-dressed women.
Her already much-noted cape of blue fox
covered a sleek, heavy white romaine
frock. Another perfectly turned out was
Ella Shields. Mr. and Mrs. Lionel Mc-
Fadyen, great friends of Larry and his
wife, were there. Her black chiffon frock
had an unusual effect of lilac and purple
scarves. Later the four supped together.
While you’re reading this Margaret
Hughes is preparing to slip into her
sleek silver lame wedding frock. Topped
by a sherbet of tulle, this will have quite
a moonlight effect this evening when
Margaret walks the aisle of St. Mark s to
meet ’groom-to-be Alfred Varcoe. Alfred
is a scientist in one of the city’s big manu-
facturing firms. In addition, he s a
brilliant linguist. Margaret’s sister
Phyllis is the only ’maid, and her color
scheme will be pink and white. After
the marriage uncle Gordon Jones will
give a family dinner at Ten-y-Graig, the
Joneses’ old home at Randwick. Young
aunt Mrs. Charlie Lloyd Jones will help
brother Gordon in entertaining.
The Sigurd Raschers were the guests
of the Norman Macleods last Sunday.
They are vegetarians and eat only un-
cooked vegetables, but it’s surprising
what clever Latvian salads and mayon-
naise dressings there are. The lunch
was a triumph from the meatless soup to
the strawberry meringue. In the after-
noon a crowd of people motored to the
new home of the Latvian Consul and
listened intently to Sigurd’s rendering
of Bach and folksongs.
Pianist Marshall Sumner, the Czecho-
slovakian Consul-General Kvetons, Lute
Drummond, Mitchell Library head Ida
Leeson and friend Florence Birch, Nancy
Jobson, of Hopewood House, Miss
Wilson, the Consul-General for Den-
mark and Mrs. Host, and lots of men
made up the party, which started at
three and ended about seven-thirty. The
hostess’s little jacket of cherry brocade
was worn with a trained skirt of black
satin. Niece Jocelyn Targett gave a help-
ing hand.
Six years ago the yacht Gulmarn set
off from Port Jackson with a company
of Australians. Mrs. Dora Birtles, of
this Lupton photograph, was among
them. She journeyed as far as Singapore
in the Gulmarn, and later wrote her
travel book North West by North. She
returned to Australia last week by way
of Maoriland in the Awatea. Her hus-
band, too, is about to publish a book,
titled The Agean.
There was no polo on Saturday. Fri-
day’s torrents put Kyeemagh under
water, and the Dudley Cup finals had
to be postponed. This was particularly
disappointing, since the sun shone brightly
all day. This year’s play has attracted
great crowds of country visitors, and-
Town and Country, Vychans, Assa-
manders, Cobbitty and Scone Blues all
had their keen barrackers during last
week’s pleasant days. Mrs. Wallace
Horsley, the Downes family group from
Camden, Mrs. Frank Bragg, of Scone,
who gave a cocktail party at the Royal
Sydney Golf Club after Thursday’s play,
Mrs. Gordon Munro, of Bingara,
and Lorna Mac Smith, of Orange, were
well-knowns who came to cheer each
day. The Leslie Willsallens, the Tony
Horderns and Mrs. Jimmy Burns were
other enthusiasts.
There was one moment of breathless
excitement during Ludmayor Nock’s
opening of the Royal Art Society’s
show. It was when he told of the erect-
ing of new municipal buildings and the
spaces on the walls that might be suit-
ably filled by pictures. Every ear
quivered with eagerness, expecting him to
say that the city fathers would buy Aus-
tralian pictures for the spaces. Instead
he invited anybody public-spirited
enough to do the buying. But it opened
up a train of thought. Why shouldn’t
the city of Sydney buy at least two good
paintings every year —a water-color out
of the water rates, a landscape from land
rates? When the Mayor had said his
piece his pretty little Mayoress, who
wore a black suit and a great knot of
violets to brighten it, received a cluster
of carnations and sweet-peas, all in pink
tones.
President Lister Lister smiled because
the sun shone in spite of gloomy fore-
bodings caused by the torrential rains of
the day before. His “White Gums of
New England” was among the greatly
admired of the afternoon. Erik Langker
was there with Mrs Erik and two small
Langkers, who went around the walls
happily picking out daddy’s pictures, even
the ones they had not glimpsed before.
Alfred Coffey was in the throng, and
the Lyall Trindalls. Mary Edwards, who
showed two of her Fijian studies, was
there. Those two veteran art-show
visitors Judge Backhouse and Julian
Ashton had their hands shaken at every
second step. Director of the Art Gal-
lery Will Ashton came with Mrs. Ashton,
who was a study in brown. Alice Bryant
was among the many who stood before
the Wolinski portrait of Harry Julius and
mourned a lost friend.
Neville Smith, who brought a touch
of the exotic with his Mexican and Cali-
fornian desert scenes, came with a group
of friends. The Snowden lady, Mrs.
Vernon Coles, Dora Pay ter, Kathleen
O’Neill and sister Mrs. Bruce Moore,
herself an artist, Annette McKenzie, Mrs.
S. Marocco, in Parma-violet tones even
to her small pointed hat, and Mrs.
Fotheringhame, who hasn’t missed a
R.A.S. show in 30 years, were others
noted. Probably the pictures that
caused most comment were Dattilo
Rubbo’s portrait of a Lodge Master in
the rich red robes and greeny-blue gloves
of his office, and Lyall Trindall’s “Golden
Hours.” The “hours” were five in
number, completely unclad and sunny
haired. One lady feelingly remarked, “It
is to be hoped the Quins will grow to
look like that.”
Mrs. Sigurd Rascher, whose husband
was the solo saxophonist in the concerto
for saxophone and orchestra, was a
pretty figure at the symphony concert on
Saturday. She is slim and fair, and her
dark-blue frock was covered by a black
velvet cape. Another to whom the gaze
was directed was Diana Napier Tauber.
The tenor’s wife was very decorative.
She wore pink flowers piled up on her
auburn hair, her frock of deep blue had
the skirt slit in front, and there were
green flowers around its neckline. She
sat during the first part of the pro-
gramme with the C. J. Moses couple,
and later with the A.B.C. chairman, Mr.
Cleary. One of the'loveliest wraps was
worn by Mrs. Walter Swinson. It was of
deep cyclamen satin.
Mrs. C. L. Jones’s sable was not to be
despised. Mrs. Feakes, who came with
her Admiral, was a graceful figure. The
Sheehan and Parkhill ladies were eager
listeners ; so was Mrs. George Earp. Mrs.
Hope Gibson, her red frock sparkling
with sequins, was with her mother, Mrs.
Denmark. E. J. Tait squired his small
wife, who was befurred to the ears.
Bertie Kelly sat with the Raschers, and
later took them home to Sutherland-
crescent, where they were entertained at
a small supper party. The Rupert Scam-
mells were there, she one of the most
graceful; Dr. Marie Hamilton came.
C.W.A. enthusiasts gathered in the
Trocadero last week to the reception in
honor of State president Mrs. C. W. A.
Beveridge. Mrs. Beveridge has just
finished a trip in the outback of N.S.W.,
and she told of the hardships being faced
with cheerful courage by the residents.
Mrs. Arthur James and Mrs. Hubert Fair-
fax were two of the afternoon’s speakers.
Bright against Mrs. Fairfax’s black coat
were two pink camellias. Mrs. F. G.
Barber spoke to purpose when on behalf
of the Cumberland branch she promised
gifts of £lO each to Stony Ridge and
Tibooburra and one or two other branches
whose needs had been told by Mrs.
Beveridge. Altogether there were about
300 at the party. Myra Leard, Mrs.
George King and Mrs. Jessica Foster
were the afternoon’s artists.


ULTIMATE
announces
A completely new mid-season vibrator model designed
for the benefit of country listeners utilising the new
series valves with octal bases, especially imported in
advance of usual trade supplies. Utilising five valves
only, this model has a performance and tone previously
only possible from a set having eight or more valves.
Field tests show that it is possible in the average
country location to log all the main Australian stations
m m
plus some New Zealand stations at full speaker strength in the day time.
Supplied with each set is the giant Clyde special 6-volt Clyde 160 ampere hour battery,
which need be charged as few as four times yearly.
Besides normal short-wave tuning of 16 to 50 metres, extra coverage is provided on the
broadcast band for new stations about to come on the air on new wavelengths provided by the
recent Cairo Conference.
All valves are of the low-consumption indirectly heated type, providing longer life and
less background noise.
We claim that each Ultimate model will outperform any other set of the
same number of valves at present on the Australian market and sell each
set on a money-back and offer each set on the following basis: “If after a
period of seven days’ operation in your own home an ULTIMATE does not
fulfil all the claims we make, then we will refund you purchase money in
full, less any freight charges incurred.”
Eleven different models, each available in several distinct cabinets, comprise the
standard range for A.C., D.C., battery, vibrator or aircell operation.
BE FAIR TO YOURSELF IN BUYING A RADIO,
and remember these facts:
1
■
' <
'
.
v*
■1
--
■I
1
■i m
■' -
Mm
mam
m
■
(a) ULTIMATE was used' at the South Pole by Commander R. E. Byrd
and his expedition.
(b) A standard model 6 valve A.C. ULTIMATE holds the world’s record
for the greatest number of verified stations received, 798 on the broadcast
band.
(c) An ULTIMATE battery set has created a record in logging 531 verified
stations.
(d) ULTIMATE in New Zealand holds nine Champion of Champions Awards.
(e) Mr. R. N. Shaw, of Wauchope, uses a standard model ULTIMATE VIII
in compiling “Wireless Weekly” short-wave notes.
Sole Australian Concessionaires:
GEORCE BROWN & GO. PTY., LTD.
Electrical and Industrial Engineers,
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: M 2544 (3 lines). Telegrams, Etc.: “Brownlock.”
Rush Coupon for full details;
Please send me, without obligation, particulars of the mid-season Ultimate
models.
NAME
ADDRESS
(State whether Battery or Electric .)


ORANGE JUICE
Health Talk No. 1.
When Vegetables Are Dear
Vegetables should form part of. the
well-balanced diet, but when they are dear
most of their essential substances can be
supplied with oranges, which are now at
their cheapest.
The absence of all fresh vegetables and
fruit from the diet for a period would
result in scurvy, which is cured and pre-
vented by the high vitamin C content of
orange juice. In-- any event, the average
diet, which may include fair quantities
of fruit and vegetables, needs to be sup-
plemented by orange juice, or additional
fruits containing its equivalent in vitamin
C, to prevent the development of mild
scurvy, which takes the form of listlcss-
ness, susceptibility to fatigue and that
general run-down feeling.
In addition to being the richest and most
convenient source of vitamin C, orange
juice contains significant amounts of lime,
phosphorus, magnesia, potash and iron,
which assist in maintaining a balanced diet.
Orange juice also contains carbohydrates,
protein and fat, and a 6oz. glass of strained
juice has a food value of 69 calories.
New Recipe Books, Post Free, From
Victorian Central Citrus Association,
422 Collins St., Melb. Central, 8895.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
ON SALE EVERY WEDNESDAY,
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 68-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Every month six to nine
patterns are given away free
for a penny stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Public Notice.
IN THE MATTER OF McINNES & COM-
PANY LIMITED (In Liquidation)
And IN THE MATTER of the Companies
Liquidation Ordinance 1935-36.
A First Account and Plan of Distribution
showing payment of 20/- in the £ on all proved
claims and carrying forward a balance of Two
thousand four hundred and twelve pounds three
shillings and four pence (£2412/3/4) to the
credit of the Company has now been filed in
the office of the Registrar of the Supreme Court
of the Australian Capital Territory at Canberra
in the Territory for the Seat of Government of
the Commonweatlh of Australia for inspection
by persons interested AND NOTICE IS
HEREBY GIVEN that such accounts and Plan
of Distribution will be submitted to the Court
for confirmation on Wednesday the 31st August
1938 at 10.30 a.m. if not previously objected to.
The amount shown to be due to each creditor
under such Plan will be paid by the Sole Liqui-
dator at his office after the expiration of the
two clear days from the confirmation of the
said Plan.
(Sgd.) W. B. GEDDES,
Public Trustee for the State of N. S. Wales,
Sole Liquidator,
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Northern Territory Exhibition
proved so popular (queues waited in the
street throughout five days at all hours
and in all weathers) that it was a pity it
wasn’t a really first-class show. There
were crocodiles, but the big fellow was
stuffed and the little one couldn’t be
coaxed into a wriggle of animation. The
best part about the opening was the wild
life’s reaction to the speeches, the
cockatoos seemingly objecting to all the
attention being focused on Mr. J. Mc-
Ewen, talking to the world from their
own habitats in the centre of Australia.
Mrs. Charles Barrett was popular with
hundreds of boys and girls for letting
them finger a reptile or two. The carpet
snake is her particular pet; she found it
useful as a hot-water bag when it used
to curl up on the foot of her bed at
Alice Springs. The young fry also liked
the blacktracker in his very clean shirt
and starched red head-handkerchief
The railways stand showed good adver-
tising for Northern Territory journeys.
On the mission stand were pictures by
Albert, the abo. who was given some
paints and cursory lessons in how to mix
them by Rex Battarbee. All Albert’s
pictures were sold the first afternoon.
Among abo. art exhibits were interesting
examples of Black Brother’s patience
and ingenuity, his penchant for feathers
in his hair and his decorative ideas in
colored clays for weapons and cooking
bowls.
It was a fair race day at Moonec
Valley for many punters, but a very
black date for “Chook” Duncan, irre-
spective of the bets that went wrong for
her. Poor “Chook,” jumping out of the
dickey-seat of Gordon Lennard’s car,
injured her ankle, much to the concern
of Alison Rickards, Sheila Living, Betty
and Mary Triado and the waiter at the
Alexander, who carried the cot-case into
the hotel. It was John Parry at St.
Vincent’s (hale and hearty after recently
brushing his red head against death’s
doors with pneumonia) who did the
bandaging and sent the patient home to
face the prospect of an X-ray examina-
tion after the week-end.
To sing with the orchestra for the
Wagnerian concert Flagstad chose in her
dressing to be almost as unobtrusive as
the instrumentalists. Where they were
in black she was in ink-blue, and her
gown had long sleeves of lace. She was
with them, too, in manner, sharing her
applause, stretching out her hand to
conductor Joseph Post and smiling not
only without embarrassment, but as if
she really enjoyed the joke at her own
slip of starting too soon in the opening
phrase of “Elisabeth’s Greeting,” thence
singing joyously and valiantly with her
whole heart and soul.
Notes of interest in the audience
(nearly everybody in evening dress) were
the enthusiastic friends of Joseph Post,
who seems to be a popular young man,
a good mixer who likes a party as much
as, though probably in a different way
than, he does a Beethoven symphony. Of
the colors worn that night, Mrs. Sidney
Myer’s coat showed pastel-pink upon
black velvet, the velvet seeming all the
blacker for the scrolls of pale-pink
sequins creeping all over it. Mrs. Gordon
Chirnside’s long velvet coat was of a
soft shade of turquoise. Mrs. Rupert
Downes and Mrs. Trevor Clarke were
both in black, and Betty Pleasance’s fur
cape protected the shoulders of her black
lace frock worn over shell-pink taffeta.
Mrs. Harold Kerr was among the fur-
coated. Mrs. Abe Silk’s broadtail coat
was hung with silver foxes around the
collar and down the lapels to within an
inch or so of the floor.
Betty Tait and Colin McAuliffe must
have made a handsome bride and ’groom
(Betty in a small hat and afternoon frock
of pale-blue rippled velvet crepe) at
Chelsea Old Church, London. Betty,
who is a daughter of the John Taits, has
dramatic talent, and made the most of
her opportunities in that line before she
sailed off to London last year. Colin,
who was a prop of the Victorian Scottish
Regiment, looks a fine lad in his kilt.
He has plenty of brains, and collected a
bunch of honors and degrees in com-
merce and arts at the University before
leaving for the U.S.A. on a students’
debating tour, followed by London, about
two and a half years ago.
In the Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
Mrs. Frank Lukis, who is the wife of
the O.C. at Point Cook, and is a member
of the committee organising a bridge
party to be held next Wednesday at
Point Cook in the officers’ new mess,
which has been lent for the occasion.
Afternoon-tea is also being included in
the donation to the good cause, the Air
Force Officers’ Wives and Mothers’ con-
tributions to the District Nurses’ Assoc,
and the After Care Hospital, where they
have maintained a bed for 11 years. The
A.F.O.W.M. Assoc, also administers
a trust fund for the education of the
orphans of Air Force officers. Proceeds
of the dance to be held at Earl’s Court
in September will go to swell this trust
fund.
No matter what the cost per table,
bridge-players will always nibble at the
bait of a party in the private house and
swallow it whole if the house is a man-
sion in a street where property is valued
at a rate to rejoice the heart of Mr.
Chenoweth. There is little gilt on the
gingerbread of massed bridge in large
public halls, but it’s there in layers in the
private homes, where contributors feel
they are getting their money’s worth and
a bit over with new ideas in architecture
and expensive furnishings.
Last week’s big charity party was held
in the perfect setting of Mrs. Norman
Myer’s house in Heyington-place. It
was for the Red Cross, which worthy
movement was given an encouraging
fillip lately by a Ruth Draper broadcast,
as a result of which donations are coming
in as additions to the broadcasting fee
handed over to the charity by Miss
Draper. At the party at Mrs. Myer’s
£llO was shown on the credit side of
the balance sheet. Tables were 30s.
each, and 52 were booked and paid for
in cash and cheques. Sweets, cigarettes
and nuts to nibble were the only “extras,”
the committee deciding that they would
let their friends off raffles. Most of the
furniture was removed from the smoke-
room, hall, lounge and sunroom, so that
there was room for elbows, and furs
weren’t squashed by the back of the next
person’s chair. Some tables were out on
the porch, so sheltered from the wind
but drenched in sunshine that players
wouldn’t have exchanged their stance
for the best seats inside with the com-
fort of steam heaters. Mrs. Myer tapped
various sources of supply for the huge
bowls of flowers that filled the house ;
her garden didn’t provide much, for at
present it’s nearly all planted with seed-
lings. Among committee people present
were the president, the Knox lady, sec-
retary Mrs. G. Bowcher, treasurer Mrs.
Leif Due, Mrs. John Grimwade and Mrs.
David Syme. Mrs. Myer is a vice-presi-
dent of the committee for the Red Cross
Ball to be held on October 27.
Motorists will be turning their head-
lights Palais-wards on August 11 for the
eleventh Automobile Club Ball, this year
a bigger effort than usual, being held for
the first time for charity —the Ortho-
paedic Section of the Children’s Hos-
pital. Much of the enthusiasm of the
committee came about when men mem-
bers saw how well the women members
worked for the golf day at Common-
wealth when the club gave a cup and
proceeds also went to the Children’s Hos-
pital. President of the committee for
that particular golf fixture was Mrs.
C. L. Evans, who is also supporting the
ball next week, and in the meantime has
won the Victorian golf associates’ cham-
pionship.
At a recent meeting at Mrs. Ernest
Poolman’s it was announced that nearly
1000 tickets had been sold for the ball.
Dancers will need to know the geography
of their State, for the 150 cabaret tables
are set out as service stations with sign-
post directions “On the road to Ballarat”
and so on, but as motorists have to de-
velop the bump of locality only slight
traffic trouble is expected. With the ex-
periences of the American Ball fresh in
mind everybody means to arrive early, for
at the “Night in Dixie” there were no
dippings left in the lucky dip after 9.30,
word of their value having got round
weeks before. The R.A.C.V. has col-
lected 2000 articles for its lucky pigeon-
holes, and 300 of them are worth any-
thing upwards to £2O.
A pair of medicoes, Dr. Peggy Mackay
and Dr. John Ray, stepped into a baby
car in Adelaide one recent morning and
out of it the same evening in front of
Mrs. J. H. Mackay’s house in Elstern-
wick, Melbourne, having made the jour-
ney, which was to announce their engage-
ment, in 11 hours. Peggy has been away
from this town (where she went to
P.L.C. and did her medical course) for
18 months. As she isn’t a verbose cor-
respondent nobody knew her news, so
that her sapphire set with diamonds was
the cause of much excitement and
general good wishes. Her stay was short,
only a week-end away from her duties
at the Adelaide Children’s Hospital,
where she went from a similar resident’s
job at the Adelaide Hospital. It was
A woman of unusual capabilities is
Mrs. Allan Taylor, who is standing for
the Frankston Riding at the municipal
elections on August 27. Mrs. Taylor
was born at Frankston, educated at
P.L.C. and studied architecture for ,a
year before marriage and the war inter-
vened. While her husband learnt to fly
at Point Cook and went abroad to serve
in the Air Force she became a motor-
transport driver for the Australian Red
Cross, helped to inaugurate and organise
the Women’s Auxiliary Corps, left for
Egypt and did not return till after the
Armistice. Leave didn’t coincide, and it
wasn’t till 1919 that she and husband
met once more after their long separa-
tion.
Mrs. Taylor is interested in politics,
and has the kind of head for figures that
reads a balance sheet as easily as a de-
tective story. She rides and swims, can
give her husband a good go at tennis,
can cook and is a competent speaker—
it was her oratory at a meeting of rate-
payers at Frankston that brought about
a petition to her to contest the coming
election. She is the daughter of the late
Dr. Sidney Plowman. At Frankston she
has a brother, also Dr. Sidney Plowman,
and another brother, Frank, grows wool
at Yaraka (Q.). Her son Barry, aged 16,
is at Scotch College and shows promise
of becoming a good oarsman.
there she met her fiance, who is medical
registrar. Dr. Ray, who is prolonging
his stay in Melbourne for a couple of
weeks, is the only son of Dr. and Mrs.
William Ray, of Glen Osmond, Adel-
aide, and during his University days was
a useful cricketer and baseballer. Dr.
Mackay’s photograph by Rembrandt.
Mrs. Frank Andrew is finding Frank-
ston, where she is now settled on the
sunny top of Oliver’s Hill, as social as
her home and charming garden in
Moralla-road, Kooyong. But she hasn’t
cut city fixtures right out of the scheme
of things, and had a short trip to town
last week which coincided with the per-
formance of her radio play “The Be-
coming Fear” at a Little Theatre even-
ing. The plot is laid in a railway car-
riage, and it has a dramatic climax
brought about by a claustrophobiac when
the train 'enters a tunnel. Stage and
theatre were in darkness as the audience
was transported on its journey by means
of voices and rumble of wheels coming
out of the gloom on the other side of
the lowered curtain.
In the second play reading, “Lost
Enchantment,” Tessa Shimmin made a
double debut as playwright and as actress.
It was her first effort at writing anything,
she having never even tried a short story,
and her first part, for she’s only recently
become an amateur theatrical. Rene
Mitchell produced both plays on the pro-
gramme Casts and audiences were in
agreement that Brett Randall and the
Little Theatre are a couple of good scouts
in the hearing and encouragement they
are always willing to give to the talents
and aspirations of members.
Miss Shimmin, an attractive brunette
with a nicely-modulated speaking voice,
is an example of a young English girl
in a strange land. She came here two
years ago, entirely on her own, with no
one to meet her at the end of the journey.
Her job is a secretarial one in a doctor’s
surgery. One of her ambitions is to
to ski, but so far her only acquaintance
with Australian snow has been on a rainy
day at Donna Buang.
Mr. and Mrs. James Graham went up
to Brisbane by train to represent the
family at the marriage of their son
Peter to Dorothy Youngman, which took
place last week in AH Saints’, Wickham-
terrace. Eldest son Francis, who is mar-
ried and living in Sydney, couldn’t go
north for the wedding, and the twins
Dick and Bob, who are well known in
Melbourne, also sent felicitations by
proxy.
The old-timers certainly have their
faithful followers. At the first night of
“The Belle of New York” the gods were
crowded to the highest flights of seats
and the rest of the house was profitably
filled. A bright idea for dealing with
the usual extravagant harvest festival at
the end of the show was to give the light-
stepping ballet the job of handing out
the spoil of flowers and parcels. Notable
spots of color in the house were provided
by Mrs. Lance Cunningham’s scarlet
cocktail hat and Dorothy Dunckley’s sky-
blue gloves, matching the generous froth
of her feather boa.


Doctors say that it your Hormone Glands ant
nerves function well you will be vigorous an.
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remed
for loss of vitality. The price of this won
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or writ.
TREATMENT Pal ' tiCUlarS ° f this MODER *
INNS®
Mm
i\m
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney-
?
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting yon.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train —Lon-
York Minster.
don to Edinburgh, 393
miles, in six hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to —
burns, philp and CO., ltd.
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
FREE!
SENr FOR FREE SAMPLE OF RE-NU
LIQUIIS NU-METAL. RECONDITIONS
Cars Trucks, Tractors, Buses, Motor-cycles,
Standing Engines, etc., While-U-Drive. Just
deposit thru Spark Plug Openings on
Pistons, Saves Rebore, Ends Piston Slap,
Rattles, Oil, Petrol Waste, Buying New Parts,
Restores New Compression, Power, Top Speed,
Zip, etc. Guaranteed good for 10,000 miles.
Harmless Finest Engine. Anyone can use it.
Trial Sample, 6/6. We send C.O.D. Re-Nu
Coy op. Richmond Station, Melbourne.
Twenty other lines. Agents required. Free
samples.
“You want a good yield
but —Y O U CANT
AFFORD TO RISK
YOUR CAPITAL.”
2*
<r
i
I always recommend clients with
large funds to spread them over as
wide a range of enterprises as pos-
sible. This is difficult for people like
you with only £22, or a few hun-
dred pounds at the most. However,
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
will solve your problem as it has
done that of other small investors.
It gives you an interest in 20 lead-
ing Australian companies and your
funds are safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees,
Union Insurance Society of Canton,
Ltd.
Free Booklet No. 1 is yours on
request to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS
PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028V.V., G.P.O.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Game Fishers, Ahoy!
“Dungeness”: Let me add to “Black
Rock’s” (B. 13/7/’3B) modest reference
to fishing at Thursday Island the fact
that it is set in the very midst of the
world’s most promising big-game-fish
area. Torres Strait is the only direct
passageway between the Pacific and
Indian Oceans in tropic or sub-tropic lati-
tudes. It is, too, a vast breeding place for
many species of fish which pass most of
their lives elsewhere, but repair there
to secure the requisite temperature and
salt content of sea water needed to
secure fertilisation of their eggs.
To this richly-set table come the swift,
ever-hungry swashbucklers of the sea
which sporting clubs class as game fish,
fierce, powerful and enduring. Sailfish,
black and striped marlin, giant mackerel,
kingfish, queenfish, samsons, many an-
other sea-fighter of the first class, all in
their seasons come through that marvel-
lous fish-pass between two mighty oceans.
Most of my fishing effort there was
done in intervals of sea and other jobs.
The modern gear hadn’t been invented,
and if it had I couldn’t have afforded it
when all of Torres Strait was at hand to
use it in. It was mostly stout trail lines
from a lugger or schooner, and a matter
of sheer skull-drag which was certain to
carry away the gear or draw the hook
when anything really heavy came on. By
heavy I mean over 1501 b. or so. Plenty
of those and under. But I’ve had to
clamp my teeth to prevent my heart from
jumping overboard at the sight of some of
the creatures who have taken a flying
leap or two in the wake before disaster
came.
From the crosstrees I have seen drows-
ing at the surface of a clear, calm sea
within 15 miles of Thursday Island a
sailfish at least 20ft. long, with a blue
and silver jigger that would drive a
dinghy waving along its glittering back.
I have seen, too, the fins of bigger ones,
of black marlin and broadbill that must
have weighed the best part of a ton, a
leaping giant all silver and purple who
shot a 15ft. body its own length clear of
the surface three times in succession—lots
of fishermen’s dreams come true.
For those who are content with a
mere 1001 b. or so of lightning energy
with sporting advantages of coral peaks
of reef corners in its favor, the oppor-
tunities are always there. The votary
of mere size and weight can have his fill
of sharks and groper, ox-rays and
stingarees.
Fish have their seasons for any par-
ticular waters, and any angler who con-
templates a first visit to the Strait will do
well to seek local advice beforehand.
“8.R.” is unnecessarily unkind in his
references to local amenities. There are
at least two hotels, fully equal to any to
be found in smallish Australian towns.
Good, well-cooked food, clean accom-
modation, a modicum of the fluids
which aid fishermen, willing service and
a warm welcome for the stranger so long
as he is civil and good-tempered are to
be had at very moderate rates.
If Artesian Water Goes
Queenslanders have been warned once
more —by the Governor, Sir Leslie Wil-
son, this time —that their artesian water
supplies have limits. The Governor re-
marked that the steady diminution of
artesian flow and the running to waste of
floodwaters, together with recurring
droughts, made conservation a matter
of the first importance. In parts of the
central west bores had stopped flowing
and only a little water was being dragged
out of them by pumping.
A glance at figures for the 70 Artesian
Trust bores which run throughout the
belt show that this is no false alarm.
Since 1914 artesian flow has diminished
more than 50 per cent. Bando, which in
1911 spouted a 650,000-gallon flow daily,
is down to 85,000 g.p.d. Coongoola, a
noted bore, rated in 1911 at 1,390,000
g.p.d., last year yielded 793,000 g.p.d.
Murweh, another old-stager, has declined
from 1,085,000 g.p.d. to 423,000 g.p.d.
The Land Administration helps where
it can, but lacks funds. While £2,163,000
was spent in Queensland last year, half
from loan and half from Government
subsidy, on water and sewerage for
“y ' mean t' say y' can't reckernise Adolphus Wot used to sit alongside y' at the kindergarten ?”
towns, little was done towards insurance
against the failure of artesian supplies.
Admittedly, it is not easy to find a
substitute. Western rivers are not suited
for large-scale storage. Without exten-
sive dredging and cleansing out, there
must continue to be vast waste with
every flood, followed by a season in
which only waterholes remain in the
riverbeds. All the same, regional schemes
will have to be undertaken to provide
against the danger of a big artesian
drought after 1970.
“Dick Tafone”: Brisbane’s record
family party to arrive by ’plane at
Archerfield aerodrome consisted of 11
members of the Brims family, returning
from Sydney. There they had fare-
welled three other members leaving on a
world trip via America.
* * * *
“Dungehess”: The miracles of air-
transport have come to seem common-
place to dwellers in towns and cities, but
to those of us who have seen what could
happen to women and children in really
isolated places, even a few years ago,
the marvel of them remains vivid. On
July 17 Billy Ward, aged 5, sustained a
badly fractured shoulder on his father’s
plantation at Rorona, on the Papuan
coast. The nearest radio station was out
of action, so that help could not be ob-
tained by seaplane from Port Moresby.
His parents took him there in a small
lugger, five days of fresh-breeze sailing.
The fracture needed extensive ortho-
paedic attention, so after first-aid at Port
Moresby he was placed in an ambulance
stretcher and, with his mother, took off
in the W. R. Carpenter D.H.86 weekly
airliner. Early next afternoon he was
in St. Martin’s Hospital in Brisbane.
“Dick Tafone”: In Captain Donald
Bennett, who took the Mercury across
in record time on the world’s first trans-
atlantic composite flight, Queensland has
produced yet another aviator of the first
rank. Born in Toowoomba, son of a
Brisbane real-estate man, Bennett gained
a Point Cook commission with special
distinction, and was transferred to the
R.A.F. There he specialised in flying-
boat work and navigation, being among
the first six to gain a first-class navi-
gator’s license and becoming a lecturer
and research worker in the subject be-
fore he was 25. Command followed in
Imperial Airways craft until the Maia-
Mercury combination obtained his special
detailment. In addition to a pilot’s
license, endorsed for most kinds of sea
and land machines, he holds a ground
engineer’s ticket, is a qualified wireless
operator, and has published a standard
textbook on navigation for aviators —
all before reaching 30.
* * * *
“Moresby”: One man in the North
wishes we had a coronation every year
—the Papuan Treasurer. Normally, Post
Office revenue pans out at about £9OOO,
but in the year just closed sales of corona-
tion stamps yielded £20,000 to the Ter-
ritory—enough to run Lands and Agri-
culture for a couple of years. However,
it has been a boom year in expenditure,
and every penny will be needed to bal-
ance accounts. There is little chance of
a £lO,OOO surplus to transfer to pensions
reserve, as there was last year.
* * * *
“Nindherry”: All the Queensland-
beach councils over nearly 200 miles of
coast from the border to Noosa have
decided to ban beauty parades. And yet
the North is about the only part of Aus-
tralia that has any excuse for these strip-
tease acts which have found their way
from Broadway, Hollywood and the
Atlantic City boardwalk—it’s hotter up
there.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: The New Guinea Police
Force, which for years went to work
garbed about as tidily as a Bogota muni-
cipal guard, has been cased in uniforms
which will make it look like a detach-
ment from the Rumanian Army —until
weather and mildew do their work.
Roughly, from north to south, field
uniform consists of felt hat, blue pug-
garee, khaki shirt, tie, blue shoulder
straps, brown leather belt, shorts, puttees
and black boots. In station the shorts
and puttees —as uncomfortable and obso-
lete a fitting as ever was wished on un-
happy man in the tropics—are replaced
by man-sized pants (in India, the home
of shorts, stockings are usually worn in-
stead of puttees these days). Lastly,
every copper in the Mandate will be
equipped with a ceremonial dress white
helmet with blue puggaree, white jacket,
white trousers.
* * * *
“Mataranka”: Buffalo-hunters are in
for a bad time if hide prices don’t rise.
Fourpence a pound, with a 701 b. hide
minimum, has been ruling recently. An
ingenious Government will not admit
that buffalo-hunting is a primary indus-
try and, therefore, exempt from taxes,
like cattle-raising.
* * * *
“8.G.”: Barcaldine’s first city fathers
must have been a nostalgic lot. The
thoroughfares such as Elm, Oak, Fir and
Ash seem to be a long way from home.
Longreach has stuck strictly to bird-
names, and although that of its principal
street, Eagle, is a bit shopworn, origi-
nality blossoms in the byways, where the
corner-posts point you to Brolga,
Galah, Pelican, Cassowary and Duck
streets. There’s a local legend about an
inspector of nuisances who discovered the
body of a dead goat polluting the air of
Cassowary-street. Spelling was not his
long suit, so he dragged the body into
Duck-street, thus simplifying his weekly
report to the council.


An INTERESTING and
LUCRATIVE CAREER for
Ambitious Youths.
RADIO RADIO RADIO
Complete THEORETICAL ami PRACTICAL
instruction for RADIO ENGINEERS, TECH-
NICIANS (P.M.G. Broadcast Station Operators’
Certificate), OPERATORS (P.M.G. Commercial
and Aircraft Operators’ Certificate), RADIO
SERVICE MECHANICS, TALKING-PICTURE
OPERATORS.
Preliminary theoretical instruction by correspondence,
then practical tuition on standard commercial stations
at the Marconi School of Wireless and A.W.A. Radio
Centres.
Practical instruction for all courses is available at
the Sydney School. Melbourne School trains Marine
and Aircraft Wireless Operators only.
Write, call or ’phone for 44-page illustrated
prospectus.
MARCONI SCHOOL OF
WIRELESS,
)>” Clarence Street, SYDNEY - - 8W2211
103 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - - P4lOl
Conducted under the auspices of Amalgamated
Wireless (A/sia), Ltd., Australia’s national wireless
organisation.
HIGH ESa QUALITY
HEADPHONES
Extreme Sensitivity
Eight Weight
Sturdy Construction
High Tonal Qualities
Price, 33/6 Fist.
Factory Tested by Leading Australian
Technicians.
“The Friendly Wholesale House”
stocks everything radio and electrical
at the lowest prices in the State.
Telephone: liWdiOO (3 lines).
Telegrams: “Jonmar,” Sydney.
Same Day Service a Specialty.
?
116-118 Clarence Street, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
THE ULTRA-SEARCHER.
This ultra-short-wave receiver will provide a new interest for the
amateur experimenter, since it covers a wave-band below that of the average
short-wave receiver. It is also well suited for the more experienced ultra-
short-wave worker, for every care has been taken to make it as efficient as
possible.
The ultra-high frequencies are daily-
providing more of interest for listeners,
and it is possible cheaply to construct
a receiver capable of covering the useful
ultra-high frequencies with the same ease
of tuning experienced with the average
regenerative receiver for the short waves.
Fig. I. —The circuit of the Ultra-Searcher, designed by Don B. Knock for the short-wave listener interested in the
possibilities of ultra-short waves below 12 metres. A vernier or “bandspread” tuning condenser can be included
in the detector, as shown in dotted lines. The two switches marked SW are contained in one D.P.S.T. switch for
A and B supplies. A 6C6 can be used as detector by connecting plate, screen and suppressor together. All necessary
values are shown for resistors and condensers.
At present in Australia the ultra-short-
wave range between four and 12 metres
is only sparsely populated, but it is in-
evitable that, with commercial demands
for useful frequencies below 12 metres,
stations will appear in connection with
various services. Included in the tuning
range of the receiver described here are
the amateur five- and 10-metre bands,
Fig. 2 The receiver from the controls. These are, from left to right,
R.F. tuning, detector tuning and reaction. Battery switch is in the
lower centre and headphone jack to the right.
the latter well established as a fully useful
long-distance medium of communication
and the former yet in the experimental
stages. Ten-metre amateurs in various
parts of the world are certain to be heard
at intervals, but the reception of signals
from extremely long distances on five
metres in Australia is still uncertain. Con-
stant observation on the band with a
receiver such as this may result at any
time in new DX listening records. It is
worth while for that reason alone.
There is considerable activity overseas
in the vicinity of seven and nine metres,
and Australian listeners have already re-
ported American police stations working
in the vicinity of nine metres. There are
television services in Europe and U.S.A.
operating between six and seven metres,
and the accompanying aural transmission
on a closely adjacent frequency would
be understandable with reasonable signal
strength.
Some time ago a South African ama-
teur, using a receiver of the type here
described, copied word for word the
sound side of the London television trans-
missions on seven metres. At the time,
waves of the order of seven metres and
Fig. 3. —A clear idea of the layout is given here. The coils are mounted
very close to the tuning condensers. The battery plug is at the back
of the chassis, and aerial and earth terminals can be seen on the left
of the R.F. stage.
below were assumed to be lost for all
time beyond the optical range. Since
then London and Berlin sound and vision
have been received clear across the
Atlantic in U.S.A.
During May and June this year Ameri-
can amateurs using the five-metre band
worked inter-State day and night. Ex-
periments with aerials showed that ultra-
short waves arriving from a great dis-
tance appeared to disregard assumed
laws of propagation and reflection. The
Ultra-Searcher receiver means the dif-
ference between everyday radio recep-
tion and the thrill of listening on fre-
quencies which are still being pioneered.
The Circuit.
The receiver circuit is quite conven-
tional. As in all ultra-high-frequency
receivers, the orthodox circuits work well,
provided care is exercised in the layout
of components. Small capacities between
leads which are negligible at lower fre-
quencies need consideration on the ultra-
highs, and components must be arranged
so as to provide the shortest wiring in
tuned' circuits.
This is a three-valve receiver of the
tuned R.F. type, the first valve being one
specially produced for u.h.f. work, a 956
“acorn.” It is essential, if highest effi-
ciency is to be realised, that a valve of
this kind be used in the R.F. amplifier.
The only difficulty is that, though the
valve is available in Radiotron make, no
manufactured socket is on the market
here. The socket must be made, but as
the clips are provided, together with a
templet of the socket, this is not a very
difficult job. One-sixteenth-inch sheet
trolitul can be used, or, if this is not
readily available, a good grade of sheet
bakelite. The valve connections are
clearly indicated in the instruction sheet
in the carton.
The detector is a 76 triode in the
familiar “throttle” reaction circuit, and
was found to be adequately sensitive and
very smooth in action at the highest fre-
quencies. This is transformer-coupled and
shunt-fed to a 41 pentode for headphone
audio output. These valves are all of
the six-volt indirectly-heated type, and
consequently the receiver may be used
with a six-volt accumulator and 135 lo
180 volts of B battery. Both the R.F.
and detector stages are separately tuned-
no handicap, as the R.F. stage tunes fairly
broadly with the method of aerial coup-
ling shown. The tuning condensers are
both 40mmfd. capacity, of Raymart or
Radiomac make, and, although the origi-
nal receiver has no vernier condenser
across the detector section, a 15mmfd.
condenser can be used here if desired.
What may appear to be a fairly high
tuning capacity is used to enable the
receiver to cover from four metres to
12 metres with only two sets of coils.
The R.F. stage is capacity-coupled to
the detector through a small 30mmfd.
trolitul trimmer condenser, with an Eddv-
stone 2mh. R.F. choke in the plate
feed to the 956. Best detector action is
obtained with a 50mmfd. grid condenses
and smeg. leak to earth, as shown.
Cathode-bias resistor for the 956 is 1500
ohms, by-passed by a .006mfd. mica
condenser, and the 41 audio pentode is
cathode-biased by a 400-ohm resistor and
a 25mfd. electrolytic condenser.
The heart of the receiver is the oscil-
lation control, and if this is not positive
and perfectly smooth the receiver will
be practically useless. Oscillation is
controlled by a 20mmfd. variable con-
denser from the B plus side of the
reaction coil to earth, the system used in
nine out of ten triode-detector regenera-
tive short-wave receivers. It is a “sure-
fire” method provided that coil arrange-
ments are suitable and components sen-
sibly laid out. Although the audio trans-
former is parallel-fed, this is not essen-
tial. It is a safeguard against D.C. break-
ing down the primary in moist climates.
The detector is well decoupled against
audio instability, as shown in the circuit
(Fig. 1). The R.F. choke in the plate of
the detector valve is an Eddystone choke
similar to that in the R.F. valve-plate
feed.
Coils.
It is of little use to employ the con-
ventional form of short-wave plug-in coil
in this kind of receiver. Those finally
decided upon are logically sound and
completely “low loss.” With the excep-
tion of the reaction, the coils are of
heavy-gauge copper and “air-wound.”
Isolantite padder blocks, obtainable from
John Martin, Ltd., Clarence-street, Syd-
ney, make ideal coil-mountings for the
purpose. The G.R. type banana plugs
(Price’s Radio, Sydney) fit perfectly into
the holes moulded in the blocks, and the
nuts on the plugs fit snugly into the re-
cesses. Four plugs and one padder block
make up a coil-mounting, with four solder
lugs locked under the nuts so that the
coils can readily be soldered to them.
Fig. 4, showing a back view of the re-
ceiver, gives some idea of how the coils
appeal - .
It is obvious that the reaction coil must
be firmly mounted in relation to the de-
tector grid coil in each case, and this
problem was solved by making a small
bakelite bobbin about fin. long. This
is of a diameter to fit tightly into the
turns of the grid coil at the earth end,
being cellulose-cemented in place. The
reaction coil turns are then wound on
this bobbin. After the coils have been
wound and soldered to the mounting lugs
each grid coil is fixed against vibration
by the cementing of two strips of thin
celluloid on opposite sides of the coil.
The result of this treatment is a solid
assembly free from vibration. Specifi-
cations are:
I RF. | Detector. | Reaction.
4to 8 metres .. | 6 turns 14 enani., 6 turns 14 enam., I 4 turns
fin. diameter fin. diameter | 30 D.S.C.
7to 12 metres .. ! 7 turns 14 enam., 9 furns 12 enam., j 6 turns
|_ _ fin. diameter fin, diameter [_ 30 D.S.C.
The smaller coils are spaced about £in.
between turns, and the larger coils are
close-wound. For the coil-mountings,
sockets to suit the G.R. type plugs are
used, and the material is WT/22 (loaded
ebonite). To make sure that the coil
tallies with the mounting a padder block
is used as a templet to mark out the posi-
tions for the holes with a fine steel
scriber. As the plugs are of the banana


T/{£
empire's millions
Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of W.A. . . .
Listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West ...
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
"RADIO DIGEST”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but “RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most important radio
publications.
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
from the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
type, a little latitude is permissible, but
accuracy in drilling is desirable.
Constructional Points.
An aluminium chassis measuring 14in.
by Bin. by 3in. is used for the foundation,
with a panel Min. by 9in. Between the
R.F. stage and detector is fitted the usual
interstage partition, in this case with a
hole bored to admit the plate end of the
956 valve. The socket is mounted on the
R.F. side of the partition, and for this
reason screen and suppressor connections
are reversed. If the socket is mounted
as indicated in the valve-maker’s chart
it will have to be on the detector side of
the partition. Mounting on the R.F.
side makes for better screening between
stages.
In order to minimise mechanical noises,
which are likely to be troublesome at
u.hffs., the tuning and reaction con-
densers are mounted on brackets, with
extension shafts of Jin. insulating rod
and insulating couplings. Fig. 3 shows
the layout clearly. It will be seen that
the detector valve is mounted horizon-
tally, with the socket on a metal bracket.
This is done in order to obtain the
shortest possible leads in the detector-
tuned circuit. Fig. 4 shows how the coil-
mountings are fitted above the chassis on
stand-off bakelite pillars. This not only
makes for shorter leads but keeps the
coils away from the mass of metal.
In wiring the receiver, heavy-gauge
copper is used for R.F. and detector-grid
circuits, and earth returns are taken to
one central point for each stage.
Alternative valves that could be used
are firstly the new 1851 Radiotron for the
Fig. 4. —The 956 plate is seen projecting through the partition with
a metal cover as additional shielding. The two smaller coils are in
the foreground. The detector valve is mounted horizontally.
R.F. stage and a 6C6 or 6J7 as high-gain
triode for the detector. In the latter case
plate, screen and suppressor will be con-
nected together. A. 6J6G was tried in
place of the 76, but oscillation control
was found to be difficult. The suggested
1851 valve is a new development for
u.h.fs. by Radiotron. It is a 6.3-volt
R.F. pentode of the metal type, and re-
markable claims are made for it in over-
seas technical publications. The valve
was not available at the time the receiver
was designed.
The experienced short-wave construc-
tor should have little trouble in getting
the receiver to work smoothly if con-
struction and wiring are done correctly.
When tested, overseas amateur ’phone
stations were heard on 10 metres at ex-
cellent strength, and local five-metre ama-
teurs could be copied easily. This kind
of receiver is easier for the S.W.L. to get
into action than a superhet, and, above
all, it opens a new field of short-wave
listening which is well worth while.
D. B. K.
Australia's First Wireless Co.
Have just come across the prospectus
of Australia’s first wireless company —
Australasian Wireless Co. —which pre-
dated the A.W.A. It opened its lists
on April 12, 1911, and called for sub-
scription of 15,000 £l6 per cent, prefs.
and 50,000 fully-paid ords. It was pro-
posed to take over for Australasia the
patents for the “singing quenched spark
system of wireless telegraphy” (Tele-
funken system), and it was noted that
arrangements were being completed to
install it in the Union, A.U.S.N., Huddart
Parker and Howard Smith ships.
In Maoriland, Premier Ward an-
nounced the acceptance of a tender by
the co. on the ground that it was more
satisfactory than other tenders in every
way, and that a close investigation of
the Telefunken system showed it “better
suited to M.L. requirements than the
Marconi system, to say nothing of the
enormously lower price.”
When the prospectus was issued,
£35,000 worth of contract business had
been booked.
The directors were Hugh Denison,
William Macleod (of The Bulletin),
Sam Hordern, Owen Cox (of Birt’s) and
F. W. Staerker.
ZEDO.
Amateur Chatter.
A suggestion for newcomers to
amateur TX ranks comes from ZL2UD
in N.Z.A.R.T.L.’s “Break-In.” He ad-
vises new licensees to use the ultra-highs
as a training-ground for 10 and 20
metres. This should suit the metropoli-
tan amateur, but is likely to be dis-
couraging where the nearest transmitter
is several hundred miles distant. One or
two recently licensed VK2’s have “cut
their teeth” in Sydney on five metres, and
have enjoyed so doing because several
stations are available within a 20-mile
radius. The really keen experimenter,
miles from anywhere, and interested in
the future of u.h.fs., can do much to
contribute to development by building
a receiver such as the Jones five-metre
Super-Gainer and frequently combing the
five-metre band.
In M.L. ZLs 2UD and IIR have been
reaching out on five metres. ZL2UD
has been heard in Hastings, Napier and
Waipukurau during tests with ZL2RP.
Short-wave listener Morrison, of Welling-
ton, heard ZLIIR. It is quite evident that
results on five metres are possible. Despite
the presence in VK2 metropolitan area of
a group of diehards on the band, it is
unfortunate that tests and mobile field
days as once run by W.1.A., N.S.W.
division, are no longer organised. The
matter should be taken up before sum-
mer gets under way.
VK6WZ writes from W.A. to report
that the VK6’s interested in “five” are
688, 6BN, 6AB, 6CB, 6JH, 6GM, 6GB,
6BW and 6FR. Country men mainly, they
carry out “one-man” experiments with
transmitters, antennae and field-strength
meters. This is useful work, but, being
of the non-QSO variety, is little heard
of. Observations in W.A. on 14mc. show
the band to be a dogfight in daylight
hours. The VK6’s have to contend with
50-watt VK 2,3, 4 and 5 ’phone signals
with very clear patches and few QSOs.
“Engine do sound as if ’ee need a bit o’ oilin' , Tummas."
Signals filter through from Europe some-
times during the late afternoons, but get
a bad doing from QRM and competition
from U.S.A. It is difficult for a VK6
to make a contact with eastern VK
stations owing to two extremes —DX and
local yarning. The Westralian appreci-
ates good contact with the Eastern States
in order to keep abreast of the latest in
amateur radio, which point is worth re-
membering by those on this side when
hearing a VK6 on the air.
Westralian division of W.I.A. has
established VK6WI as a marker station.
A new aerial has been erected and a new
crystal installed at this H.Q. station.
The crystal is of 3500 kc. fundamental
and accurate. The 40-metre band, upon
which most of the VK6 activity is antici-
pated, is thus provided with a valuable
and welcome frequency marker for the
low-frequency band limit. Masts and
associated equipment were erected on the
roof of W.I.A. headquarters by a work-
ing bee of members and friends. VK6WI
will be on the air frequently in future,
and QSOs and reports are welcomed.
Address is: Station Manager, VK6WI,
W.I.A. (W.A. Div. Inc.), Melba Cham-
bers* corner Hay and Milligan streets,
Perth.
VK2NO.
Geneva Broadcasts.
“Radio Nations,” the League of
Nations broadcasting station at Geneva,
broadcasts to Australia and M.L. each
Monday. Times of transmission to
December 31 this year are as follows:
Time,
Transmitter. G.M.T.
July Ito July 31 .. HBO 06.00
HBJ 06.30
Aug. Ito Aug. 31 .. HBO 06.00
HBJ 06.30
Sept. Ito Sept. 30 .. HBO 07.00
HBJ 07.30
Oct. 1 to Oct. 31 .. HBO 07.30
HBJ 08.00
Nov. 1 to Nov. 30 .. HBO 07.30
HBJ 08.00
Dec. 1 to Dec. 31 .. HBO 08.30
HBJ 09.00
HBO = 26.31 metres; 11,402 kc.
HBJ = 20.64 metres; 14,535 kc.
Inquiries regarding these broadcasts
should be addressed to the Information
Section, League of Nations Secretariat,
Geneva.
Radiotips.
indicator lights in red, green and white
are useful to show that circuits are in
action. Where expense must be con-
sidered an excellent substitute for the
rather costly ruby light indicator assem-
bly is to use children’s colored marbles.
A hole of suitable size is bored in the
panel. The marble is glued to the back
of the panel with cellulose cement. With
the lamp fixture behind, the light shines
effectively through the marble.
“Querex”: Dial scales can easily be
made by clamping a celluloid protractor
with printing-paper in a photographic
printing frame and exposing as one
would a negative. After developing and
fixing, the result is a white outline on
black background. The paper can be
trimmed to shape and the result pasted
on a panel for a pointer knob. The
process can be reversed for black on
white by exposing a piece of film be-
hind the protractor. After developing
and fixing, the film is used for prints
in the usual way.
* * * *
“Oyez”: A battery cable tab for mark-
ing the various leads from a battery-
operated receiver is difficult to obtain
in Australia. A handy and durable sub-
stitute is easily made by cutting strips
from ah old stiff linen collar —the in-
dications put on with marking ink. With
a small hole punched through the strip
and a wire binding such tabs will last a
long time.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: In building transmitters,
modulators, and speech amplifiers, panel
What's What in Radio.
Latest radio license figures for Aus-
tralia show a total of 1,057,911, with
experimental licenses now at 1907.
$ * * *
The second monthly meeting of Bris-
bane’s Radio Industries’ Dinner Club
(B. 13/7/’3B) saw a change in its title.
It is now the Electrical and Radio In-
dustry Club of Queensland, with aims
and objects similar to the Radio Industry
Functions Club of Sydney. Chairman for
the first twelve months is A. G. Brayne,
A.M.I.R.E. (Aust.), of Tracksons; vice-
chairman, Mr. Hinwood, A.G.E.’s
Queensland manager; and secretary, A.
Taylor, of Strand Press. The committee
includes radio-dealer Jack Boulton and
Fred Farr, of Radio and Television, Ltd.
Eighty attended the inaugural luncheon
on 22/6/’3B.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
When the A battery used with my three-year-
old receiver drops to 1260 sp. gr. all stations
between 550 and 900 kilocycles fade right out
whilst other stations have fair power. The A
battery is new and lasts only about three weeks.
When the receiver was new I could get three
months without recharging with a battery of the
same make. Valves (the originals ) are VP2,
IC6, 32, PM2DX and PM2BA. What is
wrong? —7os.
Three months is a long time to run any
accumulator continuously without recharging.
Six weeks at most is the rule. Most likely
the trouble is in the receiver, and partial
breakdown or leakage of some component may
be placing an undue drain on the filament cir-
cuits. If the plate voltage is in order too low
a filament voltage would be responsible for
the oscillator not working over the whole of
the tuning range. First thing is to have the
valves tested and then check the receiver over
carefully.
* * * *
Were the Ashbox Midget results reported by
F.M.C., Duntroon 18. 20/7 / ’3B), obtained with
an indoor or an outdoor aerial? —706.
The report did not mention the aerial, but it
must have been out of doors for daylight re-
ception of distant stations.


THE
m
V
-//-
NX!
X
If
fei
£
i - ii - t
« X
/T
/ /v
&gg
i
A
o
3^
■om
RADIOL A:
Model 26 5. 6-valve
World' Range Air
Cell operated Model,
38 GUINEAS
Other Air Cell
Models from 20 gns.
IASMA: Model
585. 5-valve Dual
Wave Air Cell oper-
ated Model. Price,
37 GUINEAS.
Other Air Cell
Models from 2 9
guineas. (Prices
slightly higher in
■W.A.)
H.M Model 350.
5-valve Dual Wave
Air Cell operated
Model .price, 33
GUINEAS. Other
Air Cell operated
Models priced from 27
guineas:
/
irnß'ii- plljp
K . ■ v I
ill
mm
wm
i
Mil
,r,,, : :,i
J O-DAY, the Australian community
■ that lives beyond the power lines.and
has no electricity can have as fine a
radio set as those who live in wired
areas. You can prove this for yourself at
any time, simply by paying a visit to your
local radio dealer and seeing one of the
amazing new Air Cell operated models
demonstrated. Endorsed by no less than
23 leading manufacturers of radio sets
in Australia, if is equipped with an Ever
Ready Air Cell, the new type battery
that supercedes the accumulator, needs
no recharging and no attention whatso-
ever. With normal use it will give over
12 months of perfect service.
m
m
STROMBERG-
CARLSON: Model 780.
6-valve Dual Wave Air Cell
operated Model. 3&»~
GUINEAS. Other Air
Cell Models from 28 guineas.
(Prices slightly higher in
W.A.)
S.T.C.: Model 523 D.
5-valve Dual Wave
Air Cell operated
Model. Price, 35
GUINEAS. Other
Air Cell Models from
20 guineas. (Prices
slightly higher in Q.)
If you would like, full
details concerning any
particular make of Air
Cell operated Radio
Receiver, consult your
local dealer or write
TO-DAY to the Ever
Ready Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., Harcourt Parade,
Rosebery, N.S.W.
® Other well-known makes of Air Cell operated
Radio include:—Aristocrat (E.S.M.), Batyphone,
Briton, Calstan, Crammond, Croydon, Genalex,
Howard, Kriesler, Lekmek, Paramount, Velco,
Weldon, Zenith.
Al6/.150
WESTINGHOUSE: Model
458. 5-valve Dual Wave Air Cell
operated Model. Price, 38
GUINEAS. Other Air Cell
operated Models from 28 guineas.
1111
m
BREVILLE: Model 111. 5-
valve Triple Wave Air Cell operated
Model. '.Price,' 35 GUINEAS.
Other Air Cell -Models from 31 gns.
■ (1 gn. higher in Q., S.IA. and W.A.)
??
BANDMASTER:
Model 45 BDB. svalve World
Range Air Cell operated
Model, 32 GUINEAS.
Other Air Cell Models from
20 guineas.
■
an
ui


THIS DRY SPELL
“Tri-cal”: Remember that sheep can
do well on the feeding stuff available pro-
vided they have access to a good phos-
phate mixture. A liberal use of Tri-cal-os
Bone Flour is of great assistance, enabling
the stock to make the best use of the
poor, coarse fodders which are generally
low in feeding value. The simple
Tri-cal-os and salt mixture has helped
to maintain my sheep in good all-round
condition, and it can do as much for
yours. I got the folder about using it
from Davis Gelatine, Sydney—told them
I was interested in wool.
Old Farmer.
yi^w
■vi Y/A
*2-58
m.
m
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872. .
n HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
' °® ces , London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
unices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
uon through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE EASY-
SHAVINC
RAZO
'V. -
i jd
m
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
?
For perfect ease l and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor—fully \
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/0
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/0
Superfine steel, ivory handle 21/-
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety razor,
3/6 extra. Fits g and J blades.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Fat-lamb Production.
“Ghanam”: J. M. Coleman, senior
sheep-and-wool expert to the N.S.W.
Agricultural Department, has . presented
the Australian Meat Council with a
report on fat-lamb production. He favors
Southdown rams wherever the climate
is not too warm. In warm districts he
likes the Dorset Horn. Crossbred ewes
are suggested, and he thinks the merino
ewe should be discarded except for some
S. Australian types. Coleman is also
against the use of too many breeds.
That is sound commonsense. In higher-
rainfall areas he prefers a Rorpney
Marsh-merino cross as dams.
The Hammond report to the C.S. and
I.R. (B. 20/7 / ’3B) plumps for merino
cast-for-age and cull ewes for crossbred
production, wether lambs turned off in
process of breeding being sold as second
quality. Hammond lays down the speci-
fication of crossbred ewes:
A good body in which merino faults —
poor legs, sharp shoulders, etc. —have been
corrected.
A good milk supply.
A reasonable amount and quality of wool
to pay thfe animal’s keep for the year, leav-
ing the lamb as profit.
In some districts capacity for early sea-
sonal breeding to meet the feed situation.
Hammond says justly that there is a
shortage of straight lines of crossbred
ewes. He places
the M.L. Romney
type as first
choice for ewe
production,
especially in damp
conditions, but adds the Border and Eng-
lish Leicesters and Dorset Horn. He
stresses the necessity of breeding for type.
It is evident that Hammond and Cole-
man agree on main principles. They also
agree on the Southdown ram question.
Hammond adds the warning that care
must be taken to see that rams conform
to type. He says, too, that, owing to the
seasonal nature of succulent feed and
the limited breeding season of the South-
down, it will need a lot of ingenuity in
many districts to maintain The type and
mutton qualities of the breed.
At present, too many breeds of rams
are used. Coleman suggests going so
far as to prohibit the sale; of rams ex-
cept by registered breeders and to keep
official watch over type. He also ad-
vocates fodder conservationand sup-
plementary feeding.. Hammond thinks
supervision might be achieved r by pay-
ment on grade. Coleman says that in
all States except N. S. Wales and Queens-
land officers to instruct farmers in lamb
standards are urgently needed, but if
market grading were rigid enough and
the killers refused to take over-weight or
off-conformation carcasses except at a
heavy discount they would be providing
the soundest form of education.
Hammond lays stress on loss of bloom
and weight in lambs through poor trans-
port methods.
The English market for Dominion
lambs is well on the way towards satura-
tion point. Both authorities might well
have gone into this side of the situation
and issued a warning as to the value of
considering wool quality in breeding fats.
Foot Lice in Sheep.
“Bungaree”: Foot lice are prevalent
in N.S.W. at present. Even at shearing,
when they cannot fail to come under
notice, the parasites adhering to the
sheep’s legs are often mistaken for grains
of sand. In merinos, the leg trimmings
are affected, but in crossbreds or British
breeds only the coarse hair above the
hoof, extending not further than the
hocks. In merinos the wool is discolored
and looks oily.
If cases are few, they may be treated
individually. Shear the wool off affected
parts. The best dressing is nicotine sul-
phate. Mix 4oz. of n. sulph. in a quart
of warm soapy water. Dip the animal’s
foot into the liquid or stand his foot in
a fruit- or half kero.-tin and rub the
dressing into and above the affected part.
Oberon Development.
“G.R.M.”: The move to Oberon,
N.S.W. (B. 29/6/’3B), is well under way,
and prices for partially improved prop-
erties are rising. The cost of improving
the country is heavy. No clearing is
considered under £3 per acre, and cost
of killing and clearing fallen timber is
hard to estimate.
Netting is almost unknown. The
rabbit, although beyond the sandy coun-
“ 'Sail right! Just want to get your matches !”
try, and not a deep digger, has thousands
of acres of timber in which to. breed.
Rabbits and peas have kept the small
men for years, and the newcomer is faced
with an uphill fight.
My carrying record on country that
was not supered will take some , beating.
In January I trucked 920 mixed sheep
(250 weaners) to Tarana and roaded them
back to within seven miles of Oberon to
a 143-acre property. I did not move
them until May 24. I had 18 deaths,
and although I drenched them when they
came home'there was no sign of wonn
or fluke. Certainly the dry season helped.
Of another lot of 322 ewes on 70 acres
for the same period, I lost two only.
Rabbit Virus Difficulties.
“J. Want”: The rabbit
virus which was to rid Australia of its
bunny population in a Tew months is not
panning out as lethal in practice as in
theory.
Rabbits are evidently not as good
mixers as was believed, and they seem
• / '•« rr
to have a quarantine system. Anyway,
virus-affected rabbits appear to keep
strictly to themselves, and the Govern-
ment has not yet confidence enough to
make the virus available to farmers.
Moreover, those who have seen its effects
on the victim still feel nervous about its
indiscriminate use.
It is said that the virus has refused to
attack humans and animals other than
the rabbit. But is there any assurance
that it will not do so in future? If it did
decide that it liked the taste of sheep,
black plague would be a circumstance
beside it.
A New Anaerobic Disease ?
“L.”: It has appeared in mid-west
N.S.W. Resembles entero-toxaemia in
some of its characteristics, blackleg in
all, black disease in a few, and toxaemia
of pregnancy when contracted by lamb-
ing ewes. Have p.m.’d some 50 cases
lost on my property this year, and sent
many samples to Glenfield. So far there
is no diagnosis.
Even in several cases that looked cer-
tain blackleg losses Glenfield couldn’t
recover or isolate the Cl. chauvei. Some
of the samples were taken from sheep
that were skinned immediately follow-
ing death, others from dying sheep that
we killed. Throughout, the stock in-
spector worked with me.
Affected sheep are first discovered
cast or lying on their sides, constantly
moving their legs in an apparently in-
voluntary fashion, until a track has been
made in the ground. An oedematous
swelling about the neck, brisket or legs
may often be seen and felt. Some froth
at the mouth and grind their teeth in
pain. Death and putrefaction are very
rapid, and odor very offensive. The
skin dries black as in most anaerobic
diseases.
When post-morteming fresh carcasses
the blood will be found very slow in
congealing. It will clot after a while.
If in an anthrax district or in doubt, get
the spleen. If this is spongy and con-
gested with dark blood which oozes,out
on being cut, it is anthrax, and adequate
person 0 1 medical precautions should be
taken. In one case that I killed the blood
took about 15 minutes to clot.
The heart sac is heavily congested
with blood-colored fluid, and an
abnormal amount is present in the
abdominal cavity also.
All carcasses should be burnt at once
if possible and on the spot where they
died.
In common with the other types this
unknown anaerobe is thought to live in
the soil, and is picked up by the sheep
when grazing very close to the ground,
and particularly when being fed in
drought times on concentrates and grain
thrown out on the paddock.
When a green pick comes about |in.
to lin. high the deaths usually stop in
blackleg. They stopped in this case also.
Three very heavy and severe frosts run-
ning also stopped the epidemic tem-
porarily, but this may have been a co-
incidence.
Are any other M.O.L. readers suffer-
ing?
Sweets for Pigs.
“Pappamosca”: Queensland Agricul-
tural Department advises the planting of
sweet potatoes and arrowroot as pig-
feeds. Both are suitable wherever the
rainfall is right, and an acre under either
will provide several times as much feed
as an acre of grain. Sweets have a
double value in providing nutritious
green stuff, which, says the Department,
would make them worth while even if
the roots were left out of the question.
One of the greatest dangers in feed-
ing is the risk of waste if animals are
not made to cover fields methodically.
Movable hurdles are a good idea, and
the pigs should be kept on a block of
roots until they have cleaned it up
thoroughly.
Some farmers object to
arrowroot as pig-fodder be-
cause of a ruling fiction
that it must be boiled.
Labor in digging and deal-
ing with it is heavy. Actually, boiling
is quite unnecessary.. It is better dealt
with in the field.
Both arrowroot and sweets are a good
bet with skim-milk. Remember that
neither is a complete animal food in
itself.
Joint and Navel 111.
“Stump Jump”: Probably 80 p.c. of
foals that die from this trouble each
season do so because they have con-
tracted the disease from the dam. Some
mares lose every second foal regularly,
and a few fail with successive ones.
The other 20 p.c. of joint-ill cases are
due to direct infection of the foal’s
umbilical vein—in the stump. Germs
from dirt, bedding, etc., grow up the
vein to the liver and reach the blood-
stream.
Acute infections are blood-poisoning.
Those victims die in a few days, whereas
joint-ill may never be fatal. The germs
settle in the joints, erode the cartilage
and so produce bulky joints and lame-
ness.
Since infection of the dam’s uterus is
often the cause, treatment is worth while
before the foal is due. No vaccine is
of value, as more germs than one cause
the disease. Many studmasters start to
give potassium iodide to mares two or
three months before foaling. A moderate
teaspoon dissolved in water or sprinkled
on chaff can be given with the feed two
or three times a week in this period.
If the foal, when born, is suspected of
developing joint-ill, give it a teaspoonful
of loz. water and one teaspoonful of
iodide daily in milk.
For the ordinary cleanly-born foal
tying the umbilical cord with clean cotton
about 1 in. from the body, cutting off all
(Continued on page 52.)


A WORK-BOOT MADE TO
STAND HARD WEAR . ..
If you really want a work-
boot which will give you
absolute comfort, look as
well as any work-boot should
look, and give you excep-
tional wear, try a pair of
Abbey Cossacks.
Made with heavy double
sole, full calf lining through-
out and a tough calf upper.
Stocked in full and half sizes
in stout Black or Brown
Calf.
1328.
Price: Black Calf . . 39/6
Brown Calf . . 45/-
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
53 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
SaWIEBHiBADOBnr
x IUMBYb
PERSONAL
ATTENTION.
m
\H
%?¥
m
°n
A
SR
w
i
ANNOUNCING
THE WHITE ANT PROOFED 100% CANI
FIBRE INSULATING BOARD
In the modern building, insulation is as im
portant as plumbing, ventilation or electri*
wiring. The demand ior a strong, economical
easily worked insulating board, capable oi
resisting heat in summer, cold in winter and
noise at all times, has been met by the per-
fection of CANE-ITE . . . one of the most
highly efficient materials for structural insula-
tion yet evolved.
Ask the nearest branch of the Building Materials
Division of the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd.
for samples and descriptive literature.
IMPORTANT
NEWS!
MASONITE, “The
Wonder Board of 1,000
Uses," is now avail-
able in Australia.
Masonite PRESD-
WOOD, the world-
famous manufactured
hardboard, Masonite
OUARTRBOARD, for
walls and ceilings
in varied treatments,
Masonite Tempered
PRESDWOOD, for
durable flooring, and
TEMPRTILE for kit-
chens and bathrooms
of rare beauty . . .
all these are now for
immediate delivery.
ffiuffyvllelz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
GIVES TO UNSEWERED AREAS
one of the Amenities of City Life.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No Stench, Flies or Germs.
??
No water supply
required. Can be
installed where
septic tank is not
practicable. The
most widely used
system in A’asia.
In Homes, Hotels,
Schools, Theatres,
etc. Shell Oil Co.
60 repeat orders.
Bank of N.S.W.
15. Any handyman
can install them.
Automatic. No emptying. Write for pamphlet.
Price, £l5/10/- Sydney. Agents all States.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR,
Hygeia Sanitary Company Pty., Litd.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
below another £in. from this and paint-
ing the whole stump remaining with 2
p.c. iodine tincture is a sound precaution.
Frosted' Wheat Crops.
“A.A.D.”: The evolution of frost-
resistant wheat strains provides a job
for plant-breeders. It has been observed
that fields in several of the more impor-
tant areas have taken on the yellowish
tinge usually associated with water-
logging. This season it is attributed to
moisture deficiency accentuated by frosts.
In the last five or six years evidence
has accumulated that frost has taken
greater toll in our wheatfields than had
been suspected. Some of the new
varieties are more susceptible. At one
time frost was feared only in the flower-
ing stage. Now it is realised that prob-
ably more damage is done in the aggre-
gate while the ear is still in the sheath.
In most crops dead plants with un-
developed heads are visible. This
formerly was attributed to footrot or
even to take-all, but now frost is blamed.
The question is how far variety and
strain are resistance factors. Dundee,
second favorite with growers, is singled
out as particularly susceptible.
v
Wheat Season Forecasts.
“Agro”: The June official estimates
suggest that the 1938-39 wheat acreage
will not fall below the 1937-38 level of
13,700,000 acres, and the area seeded for
grain is likely to be higher than in the
season just finishing.
There will be an adjustment in acre-
ages in various States according to their
seasons. N. S: Wales will show a good
figure, since the rains in May were wide-
spread and followed by other falls in
June and July. Rain in the Riverina,
however, was patchy ; but the outlook
for the State as a whole is promising.
Queensland, too, had good winter rains
in the wheat areas; and in S. Australia,
though early falls were below average,
early plantings stood up to the season
well. Westralia has had good rains after
a poor beginning. Similarly, the Vic-
torian Mallee and north were dry through
the first winter months, though June rains
came to the rescue.
The exportable wheat surplus on June
1 was 54,662,000 bushels, nearly 30 per
cent, more than last year.
Estimates of world yield have fluctu-
ated remarkably. In U.S.A., where black
rust has struck many States, there is a
tendency to reduce previous figures. On
June 10 last Uncle Sam’s Crop Re-
porting Board placed the probable winter
wheat yield at 761,000,000 bushels, or
76,000,000 bushels more than last year,
spring wheat being budgeted for at
285,000,000 bushels maximum, against
189,000,000 bushels last year. In Canada
drift in the weather promises to reduce
the June estimate of 340,000,000 bushels
maximum. Alberta and Saskatchewan
had a dry time up till the end of June,
when heavy rains fell.
In Europe countries along the Medi-
terranean are suffering from drought;
but Rumania expects an increase in the
output by 22,000,000 bushels to
160,000,000 bushels. Germany has had
good summer rain and will have a good
crop, and France expects 312,000.000
bushels, or 59,000,000 more than in 1937.
Russia will have an early and good crop
except along the Volga. Italy’s yield is
likely to be down to 250,000,000 ‘bushels,
against 295,000,000 last year, and the
Italians during the past month have been
buyers of Australian shipments.
World production for the coming
season is calculated at between
4,025,000,000 bushels and 4,075,000,000
bushels by the U.S.A. Agricultural De-
partment, leaving out Russia and China
And world stocks of old wheat are about
650,000,000 bushels.
“Sheepo”: No fleece is uniform in
spinning qualities, but the presence of
extra-coarse fibres throughout, and especi-
ally about the breech, must condemn any
ewe for breeding. The progeny of a ewe
with a hairy breech will invariably be
worse than the dam. Coarse and hairy
fibres will often spread along the back
and the sides.
“Huglow” : It is fruitless to argue that
prime hay has more fodder value per
ton than ensilage (B. 13/7/’3B). Best
results are obtained when both are used
to give a balanced ration. Crops natur-
ally rich in carbohydrates, such as maize,
the sorghums, etc., are most suited to the
making of ensilage, while those with the
higher protein content lucerne and
cowpeas—are preserved to their best ad-
vantage when stacked for hay. The
ideally-balanced ration for a cow of
10001 b. weight, yielding up to three gal-
lons of milk a day, would be 451 b. of
silage and 151 b. of lucerne hay or chaff
per day. Where cowpea hay is used, give
401 b. of silage and 201 b. of cowpea hay
or chaff. These proportions should be
regulated by observation of the produc-
tion increase or decline of the animal.
“Yarrunga”: N.S.W. plant-breeders
appear to have struck a winner in a new
Eureka wheat-cross raised by S. L.
Macindoe at Glen Innes farm. So far, it
has proved the first type evolved in Aus-
tralia immune from stem-rust. The parent
strain, obtained from Kenya, was crossed
with Florence and a second cross of
Dundee. The grain is hard and vitreous,
yielding a medium strong to strong flour,
nearly equal to Pusa 4. This season 150
acres have been sown under supervision
in commercial field trials with farmers
round Tamworth, Gunnedah and Delun-
gra. An early-maturing wheat, it fills a
vacant place in the north-west for mid-
season sowing between Ford and the late
planting of Geeralying and Pusa.
“Observer”; One of the earliest N. S.
Wales agricultural authorities, James
Atkinson, of Oldbury, Sutton Forest,
suggested the possibility of a flax and
linseed industry here. In his Agriculture
and Grazing in New South Wales, pub-
lished in 1825, he wrote:
Flax has been cultivated with success.
The product is of good quality and the
crop abundant. It would probably be a
profitable crop for the purpose of exporta-
tion, especially on the alluvial lands, where
its exhausting nature would do little injury.
Its production at present is limited to the
demand for the factory at Parramatta and
for domestic purposes.
The “mill” in those days was at Parra-
matta Gaol, and the historic town has
long been the centre of the linseed oil
industry. In the last 50 years many spas-
modic experiments and trials have been
made in flax-growing for fibre or seed
without encouraging results. The con-
clusion of the N.S.W. Agricultural De-
partment is that areas suitable for flax
cultivation could be more profitably used
in the growing of other crops.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) How to tan kangaroo-skins for rugs,
mats, etc. ? (2) How to tan them for leather ?
—S2I4.
(1) Wash the skins and remove pieces of
flesh and fat, and trim roughly round edges.
Rinse well in cold water and hang up to drain
a little. Make a tanning mixture of 12oz.
alum and Boz. salt in |gal. boiling water;
mix ilb. flour to a smooth paste with a little
cold water, and whip it into the salt and alum
solution when the latter has cooled. Stir well
and make the whole up to one gallon with
water. Spread out the skins and paint them
liberally on the flesh side with the tanning mix-
ture, fold over and leave them for a day.
Repeat for three days in cold weather or four
days in hot weather, and then allow the skins
to dry out. Rub well with pumice, and if dry
or hard rub in neatsfoot oil in small quantities
and work well in the hands until the skins are
pliable. Brush out the fur, trim the edges and
line if required. (2) Soak in cold water, drain
and place in a dehairing bath made thus : Place
31b. hydrated lime in lOgal. water, let stand
an hour, then place the skins in the bath and
lift over twice daily for eight days, when the
fur should be easily removed with a blunt knife.
Then place the skins in a neutralising bath of
warm water to which has been added ilb. formic
acid to every 1001 b. skins; move about occa-
sionally in the liquid, leave overnight, then
add jib. boracic acid to every 1001 b. skins and
drain them after 20 minutes’ soaking. When
well drained but before becoming quite dry,
spread out the skins and tan them by the pro-
cess given for the mats. There are many
other processes.
* * * *
Good books on the following: (1) Vegetable
market gardening (south coastal Queensland).
(2) Preservation and restoration of fertility in
soil ? —SI 12. ~ .
(1) The A B C of Vegetable-growing, by
Rumsey. (2) Get in touch with Agricultural
Department. Good books only touch general
principles; you need advice from somebody
familiar with local soil and climatic conditions.
* * * *
What green-manure crop will give vegetable
garden the best tilth with least risk of intro-
ducing pests such as nematodes? —SI 13.
Try maize grown to 2ft. high.
* * * *
(1) Is it possible to obtain first-class lucerne
land within 12 miles of the Hunter River ( N.S.W.)?
(2) Are there any model dairies in that locality!
(3) Would it be possible to make a living for
family of four, two adults, two young children,
on eight acres, running eight quality Jersey cows,
pigs and cultivating two acres lucerne. (4)
Average price per acre of land? (5) Average
price of quality Jersey springers ? (6) Approxi-
mate cost of putting together such a farm, four-
roomed cottage, outbuildings and necessary plant
inclusive? —59879. . .
(1) Yes. (2) There are good commercial
dairy farms which are run for profit. (3) No.
(4) £lOO per acre for flats; partly flats and
partly grazing, £l2 to £lB per acre; purely
grazing, £6 to £8 10s. per acre. (5) £8 to £lO
per head. (6) Unable to state without know-
ledge of costs of materials, labor, etc.


OUTSIDE
fff f?l
= ; ; : ? 3 9 3
tii/////////o///////////sm
w/m
<y
m
h
m
ggaas
m
s<««i»«=i*S=ft¥6Sss:
40«|04M<$^
A
mmm
A
m m
/,
i
wmm
I
i
is TOLLEYS BRAND-
iI^LLEY. SCOTT dc TOLLEY LIMITED
vJ 1
si
VE
.j/ V
SPECIAL HOSPI
O
< °
K
•• *#/
brandy distilled and bottled f
“»• STREET. ST. PETERS. ADELAIDE.
~^l? Rs tolley. scott * Tolley, li
Jl
TOLLEY'S
Cold winds icy rain brrr! That’s when you’ll really
appreciate Tolley’s T.S.T. Brandy. Smooth and mellow as
the finest of fine liqueurs, Tolley’s Brandy creates a friendly
warmth within you —makes you feel that all’s well with the
world. Gf the many good things that come out of a bottle,
you’ll find Tolley’s the best. Never be without it in the home.
TOLLEY’S
IST
REGISTERED
BRANDY
?
NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH & CO. LIMITED


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and tarn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written 1
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how lo write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
?
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling last Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Our Service Department
Tliis page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, wants typing work. —
400.
Young man (19), Vic., completed dental
mechanic’s apprenticeship, I.C.S. certificate in
journalism, shorthand writer, sales exp., owns
typewriter, wants employment, any Australian
city.—4ol.
Young man (28), Sydney, knowledge grocery
and drapery trades, seven years with large
drapery house, competent motor-driver, seeks
employment.—3s2.
To buy copies of the “Lone Hand” maga-
zine.—4l4.
To buy exposure meter for Cine camera,
must be in good order.—3B6.
Information Sought.
(1) Who invented the mercury thermometer?
(2) Who was responsible for the scale employ-
ing 32 deg. and 212 deg. for freezing and boiling
points respectively? —4lo.
(1) The German scientist Gabriel Daniel
Fahrenheit (1686-1736). While living in Amster-
dam he invented the thermometer whose scale
bears his name. He was the first to use
mercury as an expanding medium in tempera-
ture-measuring instruments, and had his scale
been more scientifically designed his ther-
mometer would probably never have been sur-
passed. (2) Fahrenheit, who set his zero at
the lowest point to which the mercury sank
in the winter of 1709. He produced the scale
which is still in general use to-day, except for
scientific purposes.
* * * *
What are the qualifications to become a
notary or notary public in N. S. Wales? —293.
A notary public is an officer of the law
whose chief function is to act as a witness of
any solemn or formal act and give his certificate
of the same. He has, for example, to attest
deeds to make them authentic in another
country, principally in mercantile affairs and in
connection with shipping. As a rule notaries
are solicitors, but it is not an essential qualifi-
cation. There is a Society of Notaries in Syd-
ney through which recommendation for the
office is made. The procedure is antiquated,
such appointments being made by faculty from
the Archbishop of Canterbury. A consider-
able sum would have to be paid in fees. The
secretary of the society, from whom inquiry
could be made as to the details and require-
ments of appointment, is G. W. E. Walker,
solicitor, 12 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
* * at:
(1) Type and number of lights required to
illuminate a tennis court? (2) How placed?
(3) Would you recommend a cement, asphalt
or an ant-bed court for the tropics? —332.
(1) and (2) Twelve 500-watt gas-filled Mazda
or similar lamps, six on each side of the court,
placed 15ft. 6in. apart and 18ft. high. They
should be mounted 2ft. outside the sidelines
of the court. (3) Ant-bed would be the most
satisfactory if the climate is suitable. Cement is
not effected by the climate, but is hard on the
feet. Make inquiries as to local experience.
* =k * *
Any books dealing with the construction of
sail-planes and gliders, and where obtainable?
—333.
Sail-planes, Their Design, Construction and
Pilotage, by C. H. Latimer Needham, 175.;
Dymock’s, 424 George-street, Sydney. Gliders
and Gliding, by R. S. Barnaby (Ronald Press
Co., N.Y.), also contains much useful infor-
mation, but chiefly on the operation.
* * * *
(1) What is Stockholm tar? (2) From what
and how is it made ? (3) Is it used for medi-
cinal purposes ?—348.
(1) It is a thick, dark, viscous mass, having
a strong odor and a bitter pungent taste. (2)
By a special process of distillation of the wood
of the Scotch fir (Pinus sylvestris) and other
pines. The distillation is usually carried out
in a retort or kiln. (2) Yes, it has antiseptic
properties, and is given as an expectorant in
chronic bronchitis and to relieve the cough of
phthisis. Externally, it is employed in chronic
skin diseases, especially in psoriasis and eczema.
* * # *
Would the R.A. and declination data in a
Nautical Almanac 12 years old be correct for
sun, moon, planets and stars at this date? If
not, is there a fixed correction that can be
applied annually to each for error? —296.
The sun’s R.A. and declination is appproxi-
mately the same as that given in the Nautical
Almanac for 12 years ago. For accurate values,
the current Almanac would have to be used.
The approximate positions of the stars would
be given by the Almanac of 12 years ago, but
for the positions of the moon and planets the
current Almanac would have to be used, as
there is no simple way of obtaining the present
positions from those tabulated in an old
Almanac.
* * * Jfc
What is the method of french-polishing in
one operation furniture that has lost its original
lustre ? —315.
Practically impossible for the amateur to re-
store french-polishing in one operation; the old
polish would have to be completely removed,
the wood rubbed down, and the whole process
begun again. Good furniture can be restored
by frequent polishings with beeswax and turpen-
tine melted to a thin paste and applied with
a woollen cloth and rubbed up with a fresh
woollen cloth; any good commercial polish will
do the same work. If the furniture has been
cheaply shellacked, it should be cleaned well
with a damp cloth and repainted with one of
the clear gloss mixtures. Inquire at any paint
store for these materials.
* * * *
(1) Time of sunrise and sunset on shortest
and longest days in London and Melbourne?
(2) During the operation of Daylight-saving
Bill, how many hours was the clock put back
in Victoria? —253.
(1) In London on June 22, the longest day,
the sun rose at 3.41 a.m. and set at 8.21 p.m.
On the shortest day, December 22, the sun
rose at 8.03 a.m. and set at 4.08 p.m. The
shortest day in Melbourne was June 22, when
the sun rose at 7.33 a.m. and set at 5.03 p.m.
The longest day is December 22, when the sun
will rise at 4.56 a.m. and set at 7.47 p.m. (2)
Clocks were altered by one hour.
* * * *
How is the stage illusion known by the name
of “Pepper’s Ghost” produced? —376.
Usually by using large transparent sheets of
glass as mirrors. Three versions of the “Pepper
Ghost” effect are contained in a book called
Magic, Stage Illusions and Scientific Diver-
sions, by A. A. Hopkins, price 255. Obtainable
from Will Andrade, Central Chambers, 173
Pitt-street, Sydney.
»*■ * »
(1) Best way to remove soot from an open
bush fireplace? (2) Any suggestions as to main-
taining the bricks free from further deposits ?
(3) What sort of preparation could be applied
to the hearth bricks in front of the dog-grate
so that they would have a varnished appearance
that is pleasing and could be easily cleaned? —
216.
(1) Forcible removal is the only way. Brush
down with a stiff brush, and then wash with
hot soapy water. (2) Almost impossible to
counteract the effects of flame and smoke, but
this is said to be satisfactory as a restorer:
Rub the wall well with a brick until the surface
is uniform, then paint it over with cement
water made by mixing pure cement into water
until the water has the appearance in color
of cement, and tinge the wash with a little dry
Venetian red; if the color is too bright, add
a little lamp black to darken it. Keep the
cement water stirred while using, and make up
only a small quantity at a time. (3) Clean the
bricks and apply a coating of the above cement
water, which acts as a filler. When dry the
hearth can be polished with floor-wax; but
will need frequent re-polishing. There is no
easily-made polish which will withstand heat.
* * * *
Names of queens and queen-consorts of
England; also length of reign ? —299.
Dating from the Norman Conquest: Matilda
of Flanders, consort of William I. (1066-1083);
Matilda (Eadgith), daughter of Malcolm, King
of Scots, consort of Henry 1. (1100-18),
and Adela of Louvain, second wife of Henry
(1121-35); Matilda of Boulogne, consort of
Stephen (1135-51) —during this reign the
ownership of the Crown was disputed by
Matilda, daughter of Henry 1., and legitimate
heiress, whom a section of the nobles ac-
knowledged ; Eleanor of Guienne, consort Henry
11. (1154-89); Berengaria of Navarre, consort
Richard I. (1191-92); Hadwisa of Gloucester,
consort John (1199-1200) (divorced), and John’s
second wife Isabella of Angouleme (1200-16);
Eleanor of Provence, queen of Henry 111.
(1236-72); the two wives of Edward 1., Eleanor
of Castile (1272-90) and Margaret of France
(1299-1307); Isabella of France (1308-21),
queen of Edward II.; Phillipa of Hainault
(1329-77), queen of Edward III.; the queens of
Richard 11., Anne of Bohemia (1381-94) and
Isabella of France (1396-99); of Henry IV.,
Mary de Bohun (1399-1400) and Joan of
Navarre (1403-12); Katharine of France (1420-
22), queen of Henry V.; Margaret of Anjou,
queen of Henry VI. (1445-61); Elizabeth Wood-
ville (1464-83), queen of Edward IV.; Anne
Neville, queen of Richard 111. (1483-85); Eliza-
beth of York, queen of Henry VII. (1486-1503);
the wives of Henry VIII. —Katharine of Aragon
(1509-32), Anne Boleyn (1532-36), Jane Sey-
mour (1536-37), Anne of Cleves (1540-40),
Katharine Howard (1540-42) and Katharine
Parr (1543-47); Mary I. (1553-58); Elizabeth
(1558-1603); Anne of Denmark, queen of
James I. (1603-18); Henrietta Maria of France
(Charles 1., 1625-48); Katharine of Braganza
(Charles 11., 1662-84); the second wife of
James 11., Mary of Modena (1685-89); Mary 11.
(co-sovereign with her husband, William 111.,
1689-94); Anne (1702-14); Caroline of Anspach
(1727-37), queen of George II.; Charlotte Sophia
(George 111., 1761-1818); Caroline of Bruns-
wick (George IV, 1820-21); Adelaide-(William
IV., 1830-37); Victoria (1837-1901); Alexandra
(Edward VII., 1901-10); Mary (George V.,
1910-36); and Elizabeth (George VI). To this
list might be added the name of the tragic Lady
Jane Grey, the “Nine Days Queen” (1553),
ousted and executed by Mary.
* * * *
Is it a breach of the copyright laws to pub-
lish a book containing extracts of poems (say,
one or two stanzas) of living authors? 1 have
in mind a book for use of schools, containing
poetical extracts on subjects such as spring,
flowers, sunrise and home for memorisation by
students. —149.
Sub-section 4 of the Copyright Act applies.
It reads: The publication in a collection mainly
composed of non-copyright matter, bona fide
intended for the use of schools, and so de-
scribed in the title and in any advertisements
issued by the publisher, of short passages from
published literary works not themselves pub-
lished for the use of schools in which copy-
right subsists: Provided that not more than two
of such passages from works by the same author
are published by the same publisher within five
years, and that the source from which such pas-
sages are taken is acknowledged.
* * * *
How to caseharden steel nuts so that they will
resist rough usage with the spanner? —3s7.
Bring them to a uniform bright-red heat and
plunge them into finely-powdered yellow prus-
siate of potash, repeating the operation three
or four times, and finally plunging them into
clean cold water while still at a red heat. The
mild steel absorbs the carbon from the potash
to a depth of about 0.02 in., and this surface
hardens perfectly on the final cooling. Before
treating, the threaded part should be filled
up with clay so that it does not come in contact
with the carbonising material.
* * * *
(1) Value of the following postage stamps:
(a) a yellow-brown 3 silb. grosch. Thurn und
Taxis, with large “3” in centre, in used con-
dition; (b) a 1 gr. pink and a 3kr., same color,
North German Confederation ? (2) If of any
value, name of a London firm which might
purchase? (3) Does the gumming of stamps
into an album detract from their value ? —344.
(1) (a) Selling value, about Is. or less; (b)
no selling value—these two stamps are cata-
logued at Id. and 4d. respectively. (2) Their
selling value would hardly cover the cost of
postage. (3) In the case of unused stamps, yes;
otherwise no, provided the stamps are not dis-
colored, torn or skinned after removal.
* * * *
Fare per steamer from Darwin to Manila,
direct and via Singapore ? Also air fare be-
tween same places ? What regulations must be
complied with before one is allowed to land at
Manila ? Landing charges, if any, at Manila ?
—373.
There is no direct shipping service from
Darwin to Manila, but this journey could be
accomplished via Singapore, the passenger
travelling from Darwin to Singapore per s.s.
Marella, sailing once every two months, thence
to Manila per North German Lloyd vessel.
The fare from Darwin to Singapore second-class
is £lB 10s., and from Singapore to Manila
second-class £l2 10s., covering steamship, but
excluding hotel or other charges whilst await-
ing transhipment at Singapore. The cost of
aerial passage from Darwin to Singapore would
be £A3S. Not aware of any air service from
Singapore to Manila. Passengers other than
American citizens cannot purchase one-way
tickets to Manila without special authority from
the American Consul, so if not an American
you would need to purchase transportation out
of Manila prior to embarkation on the vessel
leaving Singapore. A landing deposit is not
required at Manila, but it is necessary to pay a
head tax of $B, equivalent to approximately
£A2. A passport and taxation clearance must
be secured prior to leaving Darwin, and the
passenger must have his passport visaed by the
American Consul prior to leaving Australia.
* * * *
Will a member of the permanent staff of a
local authority, subject to superannuation but
only drawing a salary of £341 per annum, be
subject for compulsory contribution to the
national insurance scheme? —76.
In such circumstances he would be required
to become an employed contributor and would
be entitled to benefits provided under the
National Health and Pensions Insurance Act.
It will be necessary for him to become a
member of an approved society, and in this re-
gard it is considered probable that some action
will be taken by local authorities to form
approved societies. It is anticipated that the
existing schemes of various organisations will
be adjusted, as far as is considered necessary,
after the effects of the national, insurance
scheme are known.
* * * *
Birthplaces of the following Australian
authors: (1) Barcroft Boake, (2) Louis Becke,
(3) Victor Daley, (4) George Essex Evans, (5)
John Farrell, (6) Ernest Favenc, (7) Francis
Adams, (8) Adam Lindsay Gordon, (9) Marcus
Clarke, (10) Rolf Boldrewood, (11) Charles
Harpur, (12) Henry Kendall, (13) Henry
Lawson ?—434.
(1) Balmain (N.S.W.), (2) Port Macquarie
(N.S.W.), (3) Navan (Ireland), (4) London, (5)
Buenos Ayres, (6) London, (7) Malta, (8) Fayal,
Azores, (9) Kensington (London), (10) London,
(11) Windsor (N.S.W.), (12) Kirmington, near
Milton (N.S.W.), (13) near Grenfell (N.S.W.).
* * * *
Is heredity final in the formation of character
or can environment modify it? —4l9.
Balance of opinion among biologists since
Darwin and Wallace is that inherited charac-
teristics may be modified or even atrophied by
environment in the course of generations.
* * * *
What is a freelance ? —404.
Originally a soldier who fought as a mer-
cenary for anyone who would pay him for his
services. The term is now applied to a journa-
list, writer, artist or photographer who works
for newspapers or periodicals, but not on the
regular staff. The term is occasionally applied
in politics and other spheres to any person not
allied to any party.
* * * *
(1) / have a small article made of antimony,
and find I can melt it on a gas flame. I want
to cast a simple article of my own modelling,
consisting mainly of flat planes, in this metal
or in type-metal, if the latter is as easily malle-
able. Are there any special points to be
observed in casting in these metals? (2) Where
can I obtain the metals in small quantities, and
how much do they cost ? (3) Is plaster or wax
best for the mould? —26.
(1) Sydney Technical College advises that pure
antimony is not used alone as a metal for
manufacturing purposes. Antimony is added
to most die-cast metals for the purpose of
hardening them. Type metal is melted at
about 585deg.-600deg. F., the temperature
being kept as low as possible to prevent the
volatilisation of the antimony content. (2)
From O. T. Lempriere and Co., Bowden-street,
Alexandria, which supplies information regarding
treatment for moulding and cost of metal. (3)
Wax is not suitable.
* * * *
How to dye ti-tree and other bush leaves
cuttings, red, maroon, wine or other suitable
colors ? —2ll.
The leaves must be fresh and quite dry. Dip
repeatedly in strong solutions of any of the
good packet dyes prepared with cold water;
or use strong solutions of the dry colors pro-
curable from paint shops. Experience with
different kinds of plants is required, as they
“take” differently.
* * * *
Translation of the following Latin quotation:
“Difficile est mutare animum, et si quid est
penitus insitum moribus, id subito evellere” ?
Who wrote it ? —362.
It was written by Cicero, and, translated,
reads : “It is a difficult thing to change the dis-
position, and if there is anything deeply in-
grained in our nature to suddenly pluck it out.”
Does Anybody Know?
What Australian school has the motto “Tu
Amigo” ? —417.
Brief Answers.
R.R.: Will be pleased to consider any work
you may care to submit. Payment is upon
acceptance. Enclose stamps for return postage if
contributions are wanted back F.T.M.: (1)
There are no schools of the nature mentioned
known to the Civil Aviation Board. The train-
ing may possibly be arranged for by applica-
tion to one of the flying training schools located
at various centres throughout Australia. (2)
Examination for Navigator’s License is held
every June at capital cities. Cost of theo-
retical or practical training not known.
(3) Unable to forecast such matters. De-
pends entirely on the demand W.A.W.:
(1) There are no set textbooks. (2) The depart-
ment has no information as to coaches. (3)
Great Britain —Chatham, Sheerness, Portsmouth,
Devonport, Rosyth, Portland and Pembroke;
abroad—Gibraltar, Malta, Bermuda, Cape of
Good Hope, Hong Kong, Singapore and Ceylon.
. ...N.M.A.: Do not know of any four-speed
gearbox produced by that organisation for fit-
ment to the model mentioned... .M.C.: Divi-
dends from goldmining cos. are taxable for
special and unemployment-relief tax purposes
In Vic., but not for ordinary State income tax.
... .A.F.S.: (1) Hendren was coach to the S.A.
Cricket Assoc, for one season, 1929-30. (2)
If the question relates to the financial arrange-
ments, you would have to get in touch with
the S.A. Cricket Assoc G. 8.: Write
Director of Navigation, Adelaide F.A.P.:
Write Craig and Aitken, 654 George-street,
Sydney A.H.S.: ( 1) The council may con-
trol and regulate the draining of any lands
or premises and require the owners of any pre-
mises to “construct, repair or reconstruct drains
that may be necessary for the proper drainage
of the premises.” (2) The owner may construct
an exit subject to the approval of the council.
(3) Yes.... .F.D.: It would be difficult, if not
impracticable, to separate the interests of the
authors in a novel which is their joint produc-
tion. In the case of a joint ownership the in-
terest in the whole would, in the event of the
death of one, pass to the survivor A.E.C.:
The record for butterfat production, Austra-
lian Illawarra Shorthorn breed, is held by
Melba 15th of Darbalara, owned by Scottish
Australian Investment Co. In 1923, at the age
of 7-8 years, she produced in 365 days
32,5221 b. milk, butterfat production being
1614.11 b W.M.8.: Drop a line to the
management E.H.: Write to the Australian
Broadcasting Commission, 96 Market-street,
Sydney.... A.A.: Write Angus and Robertson,
Sydney J.8.P.: “Bacchus Marsh Express,”
published every Saturday morning... .C.L.D.:
The “Monocle,” 37 Panama-street, Wellington,
M.L J.M.: The Life Story of Joseph
Furphy, by Edward E. Pescott, was published
by the Hawthorn Press, Melbourne, and was
limited to 75 copies... .R.C.: Frederick
Joseph Page represented Botany in the N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly from 1907 to 1917, when he was
defeated by T. D. Mutch H.C.: Jack
Molloy, Peter Boland, Tom Duggan and
Snowy Sturgeon, in turn, held the Australian
welterweight championship from 1885 to 1899,
inclusive. Otto Cribb won it from Sturgeon in
1900... .M.L.W. : Write N.S.W. Agricultural
Dept., Sydney, for pamphlets “Share Farm-
ing,” “Making of Home-made or Dairy
Butter” and “Calf Rearing” J.F.: The last
Australian Authors’ Week to be held in Syd-
ney was conducted by the Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers in April, 1935. The secretary
of that body could possibly supply catalogue
of book exhibition held in connection with the
week and other details. Address, Box 3448 R,
G.P.0., Sydney J.M.G.: Write Ernest H.
Shea, the Sunnybrook Press, 36 The Grove,
Mosman, N.S.W C.S.D.: (1) The “Round
Table” (quarterly, 55.), obtainable from Mac-
millan and Co., St. Martin’s-street, London,
W.C.2. (2) The “Australian Quarterly” (25.),
obtainable from New Century Press, The Arches,
York-street, Sydney... .T.J.: The lady was
Rose de Freycinet, the first Frenchwoman to
circumnavigate the globe. She arrived in Sydney
on November 17, 1819, in the Uranie and stayed
in N. S. Wales for about a fortnight P.K.:
The wording on the tablet in St. Andrew’s
Cathedral, Sydney, is as follows: “In grateful
memory of Rev. Richard Johnson, 8.A., Magd.
Coll., Cambr., who came as chaplain to the
settlement in N.S.W. in the first fleet, reaching
Sydney January 26, 1788. Labored with earnest
self-devotion and great difficulties for 12 years.
Returned to England, 1800, where he died,
1827.”... .L.L.: The Clash of Progress and
Security, by Prof. A. G. B. Fisher (Bs. 6d.).
R.M.: The Australian editions of Richard
Hengist Horne’s works number only three —
Orion: An Epic Poem (1854), Prometheus, the
Fire Bringer (1866), and The South-Sea Sisters
(1866) H.D.: Lucretia was the wife of Col-
latinus. When dishonored by Sextus Tarqui-
nius, she killed herself, which led to the ex-
pulsion of the Tarquins from Rome A.C.:
The four margins of a bookpage are called back,
head, fore-edge and tail. A usual proportion
of the total margin is back and head two-
fifths to fore-edge and tail three-fifths.


DOES YOUR
POSITION IN LIFE
CAUSE YOU ANY
CONCERN?
It need not —if you are
competent. But if you
are not, it certainly will
PAY YOU to consult
STOTT’S about your
Career. There is no
obligation whatsoever.
?
Read This List—Just a few of STOTT’S
300-odd Courses of Practical Study.
Accountancy Courses
Bookkeeping Courses
Shorthand, T’writing
Advertisement Writing
Dairy Supervisors’
Backward Adults’ Crs.
Estimating; Tendering
Commercial Art
Dresscutting
Diesel Engineering
Motor Engineering
Handwriting Training
Nurses’ Board Exam.
Police Entrance Exam.
Story Writing
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Freelance Journalism
Radio (Amateur)
Salesmanship
Tickets; Showcards
Window Dressing
University
Stott’s Correspondence College,
100 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
USE THE COUPON! CUT HERE
To STOTT’S: Without obligation, please send details
of your Course/s in
MY NAME
ADDRESS
D/B 52
f~{
f-% -
l 1
IS
>
m
mm:
ml
TWfSS
as# - ■=• S i
fCYSAGHT
ORB
'AUSTRALIA
I&USTBUXJUX...
vncA. ofi iJt~
Australian raw material, Australian workmanship,
Australian capital, all go towards making the ideal
roofing for Australian conditions. Lysaght's "Red Orb"
Galvanized Iron is the strongest, cheapest and most
durable roofing made.
LYSAGHT'S GALVANIZED IRON
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
Sydney - Melbourne - Brisbane - Adelaide - Fremantle
Works: Newcastle - Port Kembla
lysaght’s
Specify the correct brand
Blue Orb Roofing.
Red Orb Roofing and walling.
Queen's Head Flat sheets for general purpose.
Special tank-making Sheets for tanks.
THE CHEAPEST,MOST
FORM OF
: '-'
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
mm
mm
l
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
1
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd.
(incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
L.S.: Too remote... .D.T.G. (South Africa) .
Your “Stowaway Bride” talks like a uni-
versity lecturer... .H.R.N.: Can’t be bothered
about what happens to the scraps from
a fisherman’s meal when they “plane
slowly in a long glide” to the bottom of the
sea H.M.8.: As you say, “It’s been done
before, my child”... .M.A.C.: What a pity “a
woman with a good brain should allow it to
become very sluggish with over-attendance at
the cinema, etc.” E.D.S.: Close. .. .W.J.: Not
here W.F.H.: Nothing attractive there....
J.R.: Dull H.L.: “Reminiscences of Youth
would be better kept for private consumption.
. ...E.T.: Schoolboy’s essay... .M.J.: Struck
dumb by the “stridulation of cicadas filling the
dim world”... .J.M.R.: Have noted the
qualities of rhubarb wine... .P.McD.: Doesn't
get anywhere... .A.R.G.: Something in the
idea, but you haven’t found it J.C.: “Now
the sister had repressed remark. It was obvious
that this repression brought about her silence.”
But why be obvious?... .P.H.: Call again.
W.G.: It looks very young P.E.P.:
Tut! G.M.: Surely it’s not as bad as this:
Vision the poor girl who when driven by depression
She picks the easy way, let this be a lesson.
She can’t live for ever in her foolish folly,
Soon casted aside like some poor broken dolly.
J.D.: “If you’re a wise guy you’ll snap
right on to it.” Right—“maw”-“pour” loath-
some rhyme; 0ut....M.N.: That chirpy style’s
hopeless W.H.D.: An idea, but the dys-
pepsia is much too realistic... .J.G.A.: “Slam!”
was the appropriate ending 8.W.: Two
thousand words based on one whiskered pun.
W.F.C.: Worth a par only W.J.:
Wildly improbable... .R.N.C.: You missed on
atmosphere... .E.C.H.: The tail of a shirt isn’t
enough... .J.H.: No use writing a mystery yarn
without a mystery... .J.F.K.: No sliding panels
in the old manor, please E.H.M.: A sound
title E.L.M.: No very tempestuous mirth
there E.Q.: As dead as the tree... .C.D.T.:
Just a verse about Raleigh.. .'.I.M.G.: Thin.
... .F.J.: Think up some new ones.... J.G.W.:
“On the Track” is off it O.H.R.: Rhymed
Farnol T.E.P.: It’s got a long white beard.
... .K.L.: Try it elsewhere E.E.: That won’t
line the purse F.M.C.: Close I.R.S.:
It means well, but mountains are rarely cares-
sive I.R.L.: “From crag to crag” is a
pretty good jump for Black Brother E.A.B.:
Try No. 1 on a woman’s paper, No. 9 on the
children’s page of a daily F.G.: Flavor’s
spoilt in the cooking L.P.: You’ll have to
shear those “furry bees” H.R.G.: A yawn
in every line of “Sleep”... .H.S.: Very nice—•
as daisies.. . .C.W.: Doesn’t quite click
R.C.-B.: An old tale, ill told Nytea: A bit
late in the century for that article... .C. le P.:
’Tisn’t rounded off R.W.: You bow a good
character on to the stage, then leave him hang-
ing out to dry K.W.: Too conventionally
romantic E.O.S.: “Skeleton” rattling its way
back; other held for another look P.W.:
Snap ending couldn’t carry it T.C.F.: Re-
ligious editor spoiled six gin-and-bitters howling
into them over that yarn F.M.: Another
sobbie that hit the w.p.b. with a dull thud
D.C.A.: You might achieve legibility by swing-
ing the contraption you use around and writing
with the other end R.B.L.: Creaks like an
unpaid-for pair of trilbies I.M.: Try a daily.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.W.: That old-timer tottered to the
basket... .G.F.: No chance of seeing print
with those crude stiffs... .W.M.B.: B. E.
Minns did the same thing away back in the
nineties C.H.: Slick linework, but the sketch
doesn’t fit the gag J.T.: Try again about
1950 S.H.: Can’t sort the Japanese from the
Chinese in your picture H.A.: Three tailor’s
dummies propped up against a fence, and the
week’s most inane gag E.N.: Sydney water
shortage cartoon was a washout... .A.B.: Use
a fixative with charcoal drawings... ,N.B.:
Wash drawings lack light and shade, gags lack
crispness... .C.S.: Don’t give us variations of
the gags we printed the previous week
H.R.: Idea too involved, drawing hopeless
N.T.: Abo. who confused telegraph wires with
rabbit-proof fence was pensioned off years ago.
... .B.L.: Look like half-thawed snow men
D.G.: Isn’t it time you learnt something about
perspective? L.J.B.: Jest labored, and the
sketch has a fault to every second line
W.P.: Drawing is neat and tidy, but the gags
are somewhat stale.... R.G.: Sketch that was
“just dashed off” is dashed awful B.B.:
You’re still in the black-and-white infants’
school.. . .W.K.: Figures are mutilated robots,
and the jokes are ancient chestnuts W.C.:
You’re all at sea with the brush E.H.T.:
The runner was left at the post, and the tramp
has visited these parts before... .M.M.: Ill-
formed, lifeless offerings.... F.T.: - Get more
action into them E.J.: What are you—
political cartoonist or designer of modernistic
signposts? C.C.: The lad shows distinct
promise; a few years at an art school would
be helpful.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Rah”: Curious how the spelling as
well as the pronunciation of common
English words is sometimes arbitrarily
changed for no discernible reason at
some date which is hard to fix. I think
it is Macaulay who mentions that the
“Hurrah” or “Hooray” with which we
express our feelings nowadays was always
“Huzza” with our rude forefathers at the
time of the Trial of the Seven Bishops
and probably much later. “Huzza,”
except as a labored theatricalism, has
passed out of the English vocabulary,
yet I came across it quite recently in
some verses by an American writer. Is
it one of the words which have survived
across the Atlantic long after falling into
disuse in England?
*• * * *
“Centurion”: Yes, British soldiers
took their women with them for long
after Waterloo (B. 13/7/’3B). Results
were sometimes ghastly. The outstand-
ing horror was the massacre of the whole
British force, with its camp followers,
which had occupied Kabul in 1838, and
withdrew later on a promise of safe con-
duct from Dost Mohammed, the then
ruler of Afghanistan. In those days
British armies in the Indian field were
fed, transported and otherwise supplied
by native contractors employing hordes
of native workers. In this case the camp-
followers were butchered to a man and
many British women and children were
carried off to Afghan harems. When
Pollock cleaned matters up later few
of the women could be traced.
* * *
From London: Soviet gold continues
to arrive here in lumps. Scarcely a week
has passed since the end of January
without announcement of a shipment.
Total for just on six months was approxi-
mately £20,000,000. Total for the whole
of 1937 was a little over £40,000,000.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Sheila Macdonald, who
sprang into prominence with her book
Sally in Rhodesia, is a Maorilander, a
daughter of the late Scobie Mackenzie,
who was a thorn in the side of Seddon
during most of his long Premiership. She
has now written a biography of her
father. According to her, Scobie roughed
it in Australia in his youth, and came
across Adam Lindsay Gordon and
Marcus Clarke. As an instance of Scobie’s
absent-mindedness, his daughter relates
that, on an occasion when he went to his
room to dress for a State function, he
undressed and went to bed.
* * * *
“L.L.”: Lily Drayton’s marriage to
Dr. Douglas Chalmers brings a reminder
that Oscar Asche’s sister (Oscar was
Lily’s former husband) is Sister Mary
Anthony, of Tyburn Convent, Hyde Park,
London. The sister often shares great
clusters of flowers from Lily Bray ton’s
garden at Maidenhead with old Sydney
friends. There is nothing she enjoys more
than a talk over old Sydney days.
sfc * *
“Ente Marid”: Gem from one of the
new-style London weeklies:
When tall, blonde Miss Unity Mitford,
aristocratic British apple of Fiihrer Hitler’s
eye as a specimen of Aryan womanhood,
provocatively mingled with a May Day
crowd in Britain’s Hyde Park wearing a
swastika badge, she had her shins kicked,
her badge torn off, was saved from a duck-
ing in the Serpentine only by the interven-
tion of British bobbies.
English as writ in new-style weeklies
gives you the same feeling that you
have when you hear the language spoken
by a Levantine of Pera or by a Port Said
dragoman.
* *
“Centurion”: May I butt into the
argument between “Swish” and “Pardon
Me” about the granting of army com-
missions a century or more ago? “Swish”
began by saying that youths went straight
from school into the army as officers.
“Pardon Me” maintained that entrance
was possible only through the militia or
through Sandhurst and Woolwich
military academies. “S.” said these last
did not exist at the time off which
he wrote, and was refuted by
“P.M.,” who gave dates and details
with Encyclopaedia Britannica correct-
ness. Both were right. The academies
existed as “P.M.” stated, but most of the
officers for the army, save those for the
technical corps, engineers and artillery,
went either from their schools or, in
the case of elder men, by nomination by
a lord-lieutenant after some service in
the militia. But all these had to buy
their commissions for cold cash as well
as subsequent steps in promotion. Not
until the Cardwell reforms of the early
1870’s was purchase abolished and en-
trance by examination after training at
Woolwich or Sandhurst made compul-
sory.


What is a
Good Investment?
TWO things, states the man of experience,
should be demanded of a good investment
—"Undoubted security, combined with a reason-
able and assured regular return on capital
invested."
Wise investors, large or small, appreciate that
these essentials apply to fixed deposits with the
Rural Bank.
It is simple and convenient to invest money on
fixed deposit with the Rural Bank in amounts
from £5 and upwards and thereby earn interest
at current banking rates.
All inquiries concerning fixed deposits or the
opening of cheque accounts are attended to
personally by experienced officers of the Bank.
Ruhxil Hank.
Of ♦ NEW ♦fliluTH * WALES
The Ruial Bank is YOUR bank—
Serving you—Serving the State.
MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
A. G. MACDONELL’S
brilliant new satire
Autobiography of a Cad
('Overseas Library .)
“Extremely funny all through.”
— “Times” Lit. Supp.
“This new book keeps you in chuckles.”
—“Sunday Times.”
R. HERNEKIN BAPTIST
Cargo of Parrots
(Overseas Library.)
“A distinguished piece of writing,”
— “Bystander.”
“An excellent and exciting story.”
—“Catholic Herald.”
HAROLD MACMILLAN
The Middle Way
5/-
A study of the problem of eco-
nomic and social progress in a free
and democratic society.
PAUL EINZIG
Foreign Balances
8/6
“A notable contribution to financial litera-
ture.”— “Spectator.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers and
MACMILLAN & CO. Ltd.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
XXII.
During the month in which the Black
Day came to the German Army in
France, Mac Sherry met Ikey Blaubaum
again—this time at Circular Quay. Ikey
chose to forget that at their previous
meeting he had parted from Terry in
anger, and his greeting was cordial.
“Well,” he said, “what do you think of
Monash now?”
“Not too bad,” replied Terry.
“Not too bad ? What queer people
you are, you Aus-
tralians! Why,
Monash has won a
victory that may
finish the war. He
is the greatest war-
rior our race has
produced since the
Maccabees.”
“Did you say the
McVeys? There was
a McVey in Aus-
tralia —a big buck
nigger with a beauti-
ful left; but that was
all he had. Lang-
ford used to knock
him kicking.”
“The Maccabees I
said but never
mind. What you
don’t know about
Jewish history,
Terry, would fill all
the bound volumes
of the seven ‘Han-
sards.’ The point is
that you had to send for a Jew to lead
your army, and you went to the right
shop.”
“I’m not arguing against that.”
“You can’t argue against it or against
the Jews. They’re coming into their own,
Terry, and the world is going to find it
out. It’s hungering for men who can
think for it and lead it, and we’re supply-
ing them.”
“We?”
“Our race, I mean, as you know well
enough. Monash is only one of the great
Jews. There’s Trotsky, and”
“Trotsky? That’s the fellow you
talked about last time. Has he done any-
thing since?”
“He’s doing everything, he and Lenin.
They’re getting the Germans and Aus-
trians out of Russia, for a start.”
“By throwing up the sponge?”
“In the situation they’re in the sponge
is mightier than the sword. A hell of
a lot mightier. As things are, they can’t
beat Imperialism by fighting it, but they
can by disarming it. When they’ve got
it disarmed they can conquer it with its
own weapons, and the capitalistic system
with it.”
“Now, Slogger, no breakin any winders!”
“I don’t follow you.”
“Those weapons will still be in exist-
ence. The workers’ll grab ’em and every-
thing else —banks, balances, gold reserve,
land, factories, workshops, buildings:
everything. They will all be taken over
by the people’s leaders and used for their
benefit.”
“For whose benefit —people’s or
leaders’?”
“Don’t try to be funny! You’re going
to see government of the people by the
people for the people in a way that Lin-
coln, the bourjoice lawyer, never dreamt
of. And it’ll go round the world. The
workers of the world will break their
chains and unite, as Marx dreamed.”
“Marx?”
“Karl Marx, the prophet of the new
order. Rodin’s Thinker, Clarkson and
Garrison packed into one brain. The
man who was sent into the world to free
the slaves of capitalism.”
“ ‘Karl Marx’ seems a funny name for
a Jew.”
“Well, you see, he was a German Jew.”
“Was? Then he’s dead?”
“My dear Terry, he died thirty-five
years ago. He lived in England for many
years and died there.”
“Just as well for him he did! If he
were alive now, in England or Australia,
he would be in an internment camp.”
“I’m not so sure about that.”
“I’m positive.”
“Well I know German Jews who
haven’t been interned.”
“And I know some who have.”
“What about those Steiglitz brothers?
One of them’s still here; he’s been living
in luxury on his rents and investments
ever since the war broke out. The other
went to London. Didn’t you see that
piece in the paper?”
“No ; what was it all about?”
“It was a letter he wrote from Lon-
don. He said in it his friends at Scot-
land Yard were greatly amused at his
being taken for a spy.”
“His friends at Scotland Yard must
have been easily amused. Well, I know
a German Jew, a fellow named Hartz-
mann, who’s in Liverpool camp. He’s
not a bad sort, and I went to see him
there. He says as soon as the war’s over
he’s going back to Germany.”
And Hartzmann went back. Long
afterwards, as Terry learned, and put it
it to a friend, poor Hartzmann “got it
coming and going.” Interned in Aus-
tralia because he was a German, he was
interned in Germany because he was a
Jew.
“Hartzmann ought to stay in Australia
and have his revenge,” Blaubaum said.
“What do you mean by that?”
“We want recruits with grievances for
the Revolution.”
“So you are going to have a revolution
here?”
“Didn’t I tell you that the whole
world’s going to have a revolution ? Aus-
tralia couldn’t keep out of it if Australia
wanted to.”
“Seems a rather unpromising country
for a revolution.”
“Don’t you believe it. Australia has all
the elements. What do you think the
1917 strike was—just make-believe?”
“No, but you wouldn’t call it a suc-
cess. The unions lost the day and most
of their dough.”
“But they learned what to avoid next
time. And revolutionary principles have
taken root. Why, union after union is
adopting the I.W.W. preamble.”
“The I.W.W. preamble?”
“Yes; and that means they have
pledged themselves when the time comes
to take and hold the means of produc-
tion, distribution and exchange by
revolutionary political and industrial
action.”
“ ‘When the time comes’! Take it
from me, Ikey, it’ll be a long time com-
ing! The workers don’t mind an occa-
sional box-on with the bosses, but they
have no use for what you call your
revolution. Revolutions may be all right
for countries where the people have
nothing to do at the week-ends but go
on making shirts and slop suits or go
spouting and listening to spouters ; but
that’s not the case in Australia. Good
God, have you never been to Moore
Park of a Saturday or to Bondi or Manly
of a Sunday?”
“I have
“Well, the fellows
you see there enjoy-
ing life are the fellows
you would have to
call on to start your
revolution. Why, you
fly-flat, they’d laugh
at you!”
“Don’t you start
calling me names.”
“Sorry, but you
get a man’s hair off.
If you must have
your revolution, go
to your blessed Rus-
sia and bog in.”
“I’m going there
some day, but I ex-
pect to do it as Com-
missar Blaubaum,
the representative of
the Australian Soviet
Republic.”
“I heard a bloke
say in the Domain
that in a year or two
a ship flying the
hammer - and - sickle
flag would bring
Lenin and Trotsky
into Farm Cove. Do
you really believe that sort of rubbish?”
“Believe it? Of course I believe it.”
“Good-bye, Ikey. I’ll be there when
they scrag you.”
{To be continued.)


NORSE WHO BEGAN
TO GET FAT
Worried Because it
Spoiled Her “Figure”
This nurse was proud of her figure, and
when she began to put on weight she was
naturally worried about it. She started taking
Kruschen, and in a few months she got rid
of 18 lbs. of unwanted fat. Delighted with
the results, Nurse writes:
“I am a hospital nurse, 38 years of age.
I am 5 feet 8 inches tall and always had a
good figure. But about two years ago, I
began to get very fat, especially round the
abdomen. This worried me very much, not
only because it spoiled my figure, but because
it made me look much older. A few months
ago I started taking Kruschen Salts and soon
found I was getting slimmer. I did not weigh
myself until last week, and found to my delight
that I had lost 18 lbs. of excess fat, and I
feel so well.” —(Nurse) M.E.C.
Before the first bottle of Kruschen is finished,
the fat starts to go. Then, month after month,
the scales tell the same story—a few pounds
less of superfluous fat to burden the body and
endanger the health.
“fIWATEfI”
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Wednesday.
?
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England , travel
one Way via “ The Cape ” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAYILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
=rii
tto=r=
l
k-
V
%
■ e
SE £
Macquarie’s Man
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
OLD Admiral Phillip, just before he
died, gave a letter of introduc-
tion to a friend who had fallen
into misfortune and was about to
sail—or, rather, to be sailed —to Sydney.
The letter was addressed to the Governor
of New South Wales. A letter of high
recommendation, it was; and when
Francis Howard Greenway diffidently
presented it to Mr. Secretary Campbell
he ventured to express a hope that it
might not be taken as an impertinence
for a man who was doing 14 years to
approach his Excellency in such a
fashion.
But Macquarie had ever a sympathetic
ear for the fellow in distress, and it so
happened that Greenwav was the very
“By cri'! I'm on a winner at last.”
man he was looking for. He was bent
on converting Sydney from a hamlet of
whitewashed wattle-and-daub huts into
the semblance of a capital city, and as
the Admiral had described his friend as
an eminent and able architect the Gover-
nor considered himself in luck’s way.
It is certain that Mr. Greenway was
lucky. Fourteen years’ penal servitude
under a sentence of transportation could
be a very grim experience for a cultured
man who had no introductions to those
in high places, even if, like Greenway,
he had only been wanting in candor dur-
ing an examination in bankruptcy.
So Macquarie immediately granted
Phillip’s friend a ticket-of-leave, and
thenceforward the latter became Mac-
quarie’s man, designer of his memorials
and artistic benefactor of his involun-
tarily adopted country. Almost every
building that to-day represents Old Syd-
ney is the work of the unfortunate Bristol
architect, and each of them testifies to
the quality of his professional skill.
Six months after his arrival Greenway
submitted proposals to Macquarie for a
market house and town hall. In 1815,
iwhen he was “acting for the Government
but not in office or receiving pay,” he
proposed some even more ambitious
schemes. One of them was for a light-
house on North Head, with a fort and
a beacon on the Sow and Pigs reef in the
entrance to Port Jackson. Another was
for a citadel on Signal Hill, where Gov-
ernor King had begun to make a fort in
1803—three of its hexagonal faces still
flank the Observatory—with an outpost
on Dawes’ Point and a bridge from there
to the North Shore.
But even to such an enthusiastic builder
as Macquarie these projects were a little
too magnificent. He modified them by
directing that the lighthouse should be
built on the more easily accessible South
Head, and the principal defence work on
the east side of Sydney Cove, known as
Benelong Point, where Fort Macquarie
stood until the beginning of this century.
As for the bridge, he decided that “the
time was not yet ripe,” and more than
a century was to elapse before Green-
way’s dream was realised.
In 1816 the architect reported ad-
versely on the work being put into the
foundations of the hospital in Macquarie-
street, and the contractors received a rap
over the knuckles and were compelled to
amend their faulty construction. Green-
way informed the Governor at the same
time that, if he would abolish the system
of private contracts paid for with a
monopoly of importing spirits, he could
have more and better buildings in a few
years than had been built in the 28 since
the country was first settled. This was a
suggestion which Macquarie, with his
craze for building, was quite unable to
resist, and his protege was appointed
Civil Architect and assistant to the In-
spector of Public Works.
So Greenway let himself go, and
greatly improved, both in soundness of
construction and style, the buildings that
were being erected in the district of
Port Jackson.
The best specimens of the architecture
of the Macquarie period—the Hyde Park
convict barracks at the top of King-
street (now the District Court), St.
James’s Church, St. Matthew’s at Wind-
sor, St. Luke’s at Liverpool, Government
House (modelled on Thornbury Castle),
and the Supreme Court are un-
doubtedly Greenway’s. He also planned,
but was not permitted to construct, a
pipeline for Sydney’s water supply, with
a branch to Cockle Bay (Darling Har-
bor) for shipping use, a main sewerage
system, a “Doric screen’’ to connect the
barracks with what is now St. James’s
Church, but was at first designed for a
courthouse, and a systematic plan for
the extension of Sydney—the first Aus-
tralian town-planning scheme.
So delighted was Macquarie with his
man that he gave Greenway his free-
dom at the end of 1817, when the light-
house at South Head was completed and
the foundation-stone laid of Fort Mac-
quarie. He also asked the Home Gov-
ernment for permission to raise Green-
way’s pay from 3s. a day to ss. a day.
In 1818 Greenway proposed the build-
ing of a cathedral church in the present
position of the Sydney Town Hall, in
the middle of a “four-way circus,” with
roads to Parramatta, Dawes Point,
Cockle Bay and Hyde Park. Digging
for the foundations was commenced in
1819. But Mr. Commissioner Bigge,
sent out to report on Macquarie’s ad-
ministration, put a stop to all that, and
eventually to Greenway as public archi-
tect.
Greenway was forced to retire into
private practice. He died at Maitland
in 1837. But Macquarie’s man has left
his mark on New South Wales, and the
country was- as fortunate as the old
Governor and autocrat in obtaining his
services. No Greenway building needs
destruction, and none should ever be
destroyed.


ME versus THE MACHINES
IDO not like machines. The won-
ders of mechanical engineering
terrify and appal me with their
ingenuity and precision. Lesser mar-
vels have a similar if not so potent effect,
and even such simple contraptions as
mincing-machines and pencil-sharpeners
annoy me intensely because they sym-
bolise a possible future when mankind
shall be ground down by the tyranny
of mechanism triumphant.
Typical of this mechanical age, and
all too common phenomena in our city
streets, are the automatic coin-in-the-slot
machines which lurk on all sides to lure
pence from the pockets of ah easygoing
and extravagant populace.
The rate of natural increase among
these nuisances is almost incredible. One
has no sooner discovered a new way of
reaching the office without passing one
of . the tribe when, hey, presto ! up in
one’s path springs a brand-new factory
shining machine which gazes at one with
the baleful glare of an octopus inviting
a grampus (or whatever species of marine
animalia octopuses issue dinner invita-
tions to) to come and be friends, and
'tempts one to be weighed, photographed,
analysed, fed with chocolates or sup-
plied with razor-blades.
The life of a sensitive man nowadays
is not worth living. He knows his weight
and doesn’t want to be weighed, yet
such is the spell of the machines upon
the mass mind that some force impels
him to step upon the platform and insert
his penny.
The presence of these vultures is in
itself bad enough, but it is far worse
that they should be allowed to terrorise
people into supporting them. Worst of
all, however, is the arrogant way in which
they impose conditions upon their users.
“Do not insert coin until disk has
stopped revolving,” they order disdain-
fully ; or, “Grip the handle firmly and
stand in front of green ray.”
Surely if a man is prepared to pay
his penny he should be allowed to please
Highest sex-appeal to date. (It is a
donkey, says the artist.)
himself just when he puts it in the slot
or where he stands; yet the sinister
power of the machines is so strong that
99 people out of every hundred obey
the instructions implicitly.
1 have always done so myself on those
occasions when I- have been unable to
resist the impulse to thrust a prodigal
penny into the maw of the machine.
That, of course, was before last Thursday.
On that morning I awoke with > a
peculiar feeling of elation. I felt up-
lifted as though I had performed some
great service for my fellowmen, or that
1 was about to perform it. In a kind of
ecstasy 1 left my breakfast egg untouched ;
almost floated down to the ferry and in
due course reached the city. It was then
that my mission was revealed to me.
Like a blinding flash the inspiration
came. I had been chosen to strike the
first blow for freedom ; to set in motion
the forces that were to free mankind
from the shackles of mechanical con-
trivances.
I secured a supply of pennies and
set forth with a glad heart. 'My plans
were complete and simple. I would visit
the machines and treat them with con-
tempt. I would ignore their orders and
instructions, use them as I pleased, make
them my playthings, bring ridicule upon
them. A glorious mission.
All eagerness to begin, I hastened
across to a weighing machine which was
soliciting custom on the opposite side of
the street. One of the old-fashioned
type, it was not so aggressive as some
of the more modern ones. It merely asked
patrons to “Place a penny in the slot and
stand firmly on the platform.”
I stood on the platform and inserted
my penny, then immediately grasped the
side-rails and pressed down with my
feet. The indicator shot round to 20
stone. I released the rails and jiggled
my feet about. The pointer oscillated
between seven and 14 stone, shivered a
bit around 12 and hesitated for a while
at 5 stone 7. There was a metallic clank
as the machine digested my penny, then
the indicator gave up the struggle and
slipped back to normal.
Mechanism triumphant.
I stepped off feeling highly pleased
with the opening shot of the campaign.
My actual weight is 10 stone. Not great,
certainly, but a nice even figure and
simple to remember. The machine hadn’t
got within sight of it.
My next adversary was something
more elaborate. “Your weight on a
printed, dated card,” it boasted. I
paused, penny in hand, and stepped on
to the platform.
“Don’t insert penny until disk has
stopped revolving,” were the instructions.
“Fiddlesticks!” I snorted as I thrust
in my coin. The disk was spinning
round like a roulette wheel. Down rattled
my penny. Through the glass I could
see wheels revolving and levers moving,
and could hear the grinding and whirring
of mechanism. Out came my card. The
machine seemed to throw it at me as
if to say “Take that!”
I took it.
The thing had first recorded 5 stone
13, then stamped it out and substituted
14 stone 5. It had apparently been hav-
ing a third attempt when it lost its
temper and threw the card at me. This
was marvellous. I looked again. The
card bore the date belonging to next
Tuesday week.
With light step and lighter heart I
walked off down Pitt-street. A Razor
Blade Machine sprang up in my path.
“Don’t use bent coins,” it ordered bom-
bastically.
I searched my pockets, but none of my
coins was bent. Still, that was easily
remedied ; and by hammering one with
my boot on the edge of the footpath I
managed to get it fairly crooked. The slot
resisted a little, but after a bit of push-
ing and hammering I managed to get
the coin in. I was so pleased that I
walked off without my razor-blade ; but,
anyway, the machine’ll have a lot of
trouble straightening that penny, and a
lot more when it tries to pass it. It was
made in South Africa and has a portrait
of Kruger on it.
On I went, keeping a keen lookout
for the foe. I had not to go far, for
there in front of a big store stood a
Pashometer. Ah ! this called for real guile.
A placard announced that the highest
sex-appeal to date had been registered
by a Mr. Sam Blither, of Surry Hills,
with a snappy 97.
. Luck was on my side, for . only a few
yards further on stood a fruit-stall with
what must be Sydney’s only donkey at-
tached.. A few words and a few coins
to the owner, and a minute later he, the
donk. and I crossed the footpath. Stand-
ing Jacko in; front of the machine, I
placed a coin in the slot. Like a flash
the dial registered 101.
“Weigh British, the British way.”
A crowd gathered, and we hastily took
Jacko back to his cart. Explanations
were circulating through the crowd, and
as I moved off I sensed the admiring
glances of the women. “What a man!”
they murmured. I could almost hear
the machine gnashing its teeth.
S I went on from strength to strength
and from machine to machine. Weigh-
ing machines predominated. Within half
an hour I had accumulated a pocketful
of cards crediting me with an assort-
ment of weights from three-stone-eleven
to nineteen-stone-two, and dated foi
nearly every day for the next six weeks.
[ had also tricked a machine which
boasted “Weigh British, the British Way.”
I bribed a Chinese hawker to step on to
the machine, and as far as I could judge
it weighed him as cheerfully as if he’d
been Devon-born. Further, I had thrust
three razor-blades and a zinc disk into
four chocolate machines. Certainly, I
didn’t get any chocolates, but I’d been
fooled so often when a child by putting
pennies into empty machines that this
didn’t worry me much.
“Have Your Character Analysed,”
challenged the Purple Ray Machine. My
stock of pennies was running low, but I
couldn’t resist this one.
“Stand directly in front of the Ray
and grasp the handle firmly,” it admon-
ished me. I slipped in my penny and
dodged quickly round behind the
machine. Judging by the faces of the
onlookers, the display of purple rays
and chain lightning must have been quite
impressive, but I didn’t see it.
Presently one of the crowd turned to
me. “There’s your card,” he said.
I picked it up. Say what you like, there
was something about this machine. Of
course, it may have been mere coincid-
ence, but it certainly had my character
right. “You have a lovable nature,” I
read. “Your keen brain makes you a
quick-thinker, and you are devoted to
truth, honesty and justice.”
“Wonderful!” I thought. lam not a
jealous man, and I always believe in
giving praise where praise is due. In
this case, the machine was obviously
capable of doing all it claimed and I was
prepared to give it credit.
I read on. “The firm way in which
you grasped the handle shows great
strength of character.” And I hadn’t
touched the handle at all! I thrust the
card into my pocket. Another victory!
The Purple Ray was quivering with ill-
concealed rage as I walked off wearing a
sardonic smile.
In Martin-place two girls were stand
ing in front of an imposing weighing
machine. “I speak your weight,” said
the legend ; and sure enough a cultured
voice from the body of the machine was
just informing a third girl that she
weighed eight-stone-three. “What a
lovely voice,” chittered her. friends. “Just
like Ronald Colman’s.”
They moved on, and I stepped on to
the platform, put in my penny and
adopted my old tactics of jiggling my feet.
“Ten stone,” began Ronald. “No,
fourteen-stone-three—er—two, I mean ;
six-stone-five ; that is, eight—er—blast it
—keep still, can’t you!”
I stepped off, inserted another coin and
remained on the footpath. Ronald cleared
his throat. “Er-kk-humph! ” he began,
then spluttered.
Still laughing, I continued up Martin-
place. Victory won and honor satisfied,
my mind turned to other things. Down
some steps I went, and a door confronted
me. “Place a penny in the slot and turn
handle to the right.”
I did so. Nothing happened. I worked
the handle to and fro. Still nothing hap-
pened. The door refused to budge.
“You’re stiff, Dig.,” said a voice at my
elbow. “That one’s out of order. You’ll
have to try the next.”
“Six-stone-five; that is, blast it —keep
still!”
I put my hand in my pocket. Empty!
I searched my other pockets. All empty.
I had spent my last penny. I turned to
my informant. He had gone. In
desperation I tugged and pulled the door-
handle. It remained firm.
The machine had won after all.
J. B. BLAIR.
A MOUNTAIN FROM INDIA
INTO the Rushcutter Bay stoush and
grapple establishment, a bulk by the
name of Arjan Das loomed up out of
India, enfolded in a beauteous dress-
ing-gown of sheeny sky blue patterned
over with a delicate floral design. Sink-
ing the weighbridge at 17st. 21b., Arjan
clambered into the ring with a wild look
in his eye and, as it turned out, a neces-
sarily equally mountainous interpreter at
his elbow. Gripping a top rope in each
outstretched hand, the Himalayan
gladiator pulled them towards him and
let ’em go with the twang of a bow-
string. Then he began an outburst of
knee-bending exercises, in which industry
he was engaged when, to an accompani-
ment of boos, cheers and catcalls from
the vast mob, Rudy la Ditzi (16st. 31b.)
lifted his comparatively pigmy propor-
tions into the corner opposite.
Arjan’s pretty dressing-gown was re-
moved, revealing a spectacle calculated
to strike terror into the Pyramid of
Cheops. A formidable job of human
architecture, he has biceps like hams,
his thighs would do for straining-posts,
his chest could be subdivided and sold as
building allotments. Once inside the four
ropes his thinking processes appear to
operate like those of a bull in a bull-
ring : here’s the arena, here am I, trot out
your blasted matadors!
In this spirit, he surged across the ring.
Rudy, not exactly a shrinking violet in
the ring himself, was caught unprepared,
still in his dressing-gown, and upended
bodily over the top ropes. With dressing-
gown ripped to the elbow, Rudy up and
through the ropes and into India, let-
ting loose a Rafferty bombardment and
a vocal barrage of fire and brimstone.
They were mixing it in free style when
interpreter, ref. and others joined in, pen-
ning the loudly bellowing Rudy back in
his corner, what time the interpreter
vocally and physically shepherded his
Everestine lamb back across the ring.
Rudy, champing and stamping like a
bee-stung Clydesdale, now had insult
added to injury. Somebody handed him
up a bunch of flowers. It wasn’t the
sort of floral offering a prima donna
would rave over, being composed of
snapdragons, geraniums and suchlike
horticultural lower orders, but it would
have been all one to Rudy if they’d
been orchids. With bare and furious
hands he tore the bunch to pieces and
flung it from him in a shower of flutter-
ing petals, floating down on the bald
heads about the ringside and coming to
rest also as an incongruous fringe for the
ring itself.
Then, with Rudy thus infuriated and
Arjan straining at the leash ever since
he got into the ring, they went roaring
into action. If Arjan had needed any
further inspiration to do his worst, he
was soon to get it. As they came to-
gether he got both his huge arms wrapped
round Rudy’s middle in a bear hug.
Thereupon Rudy opened his mouth as
wide as a dentist’s dream and sunk his
jaws into India’s ample side. There was
a bellow that must have echoed in Bom-
bay, and India vbroke loose, rubbing his
chewed side and wearing the expression
of Mr. Gandhi pondering the impon-
derable. His eyes blazed in the dark-
ness of his dial; he bore down on Rudy,
not with a rush, but like a mountain mov-
ing bodily on its base ; there was an em-
brace, a heave*, a loud and awful grunt,
and over the top rope again came Rudy
in a hurtling avalanche.
So the struggle proceeded. Not that
Rudy didn’t give back as bad as he took;
he heaved India over the top more than
once, gnawed him more than twice and
generally jpiade as brave a showing as the
mountainous circumstances would per-
mit. But it was no good. What can be
done about a mountain imbued with the
one idea that it must keep on the move
all the time, to the extent that it has
even to be forcibly held in its corner
between rounds? Rudy, at any rate, was
not equal to answering that question. He
bellowed, blustered and generally made
a great show of it, but the mountain
kept on moving till, by the sheer force of
animated mass, Rudy was reduced to an
inanimate mess, prostrate on the can-
vas with an antirrhinum petal nestling
forgivingly against what had formerly
been his left ear.


W
■
.
W
Smash it quickly
with
Dorns D
iucaluhtM Sxttact
VOU must fight Flu both internally and externally if
* you would smash it in record time. Your best weapon
is Double “D’ Eucalyptus, and this is how to use it:-
B
TAKE 3 drops of Double “D” on
■
sugar.
chest and back wi
INHALE 15 drops of Double “D” in
hot water when retiring.
I
Double < *D s ’ ? Eucalyptus is very strong and penetrating,
and the Three-way Treatment brings the powerful
antiseptic vapors of Double “D” right in contact with
the germs in the throat, nose and bronchial tubes. Do
not use inferior Eucalyptus!—be sure to get genuine
Double “D.” It’s the purest and strongest Eucalyptus
sold in Australia.
9d. ENORMOUS SALES 1/3
Double “D”
&ue<Ufftfu4 Sxtlact
Win your fight
against Rheumatism
take
DF SHELDONS
GIN PILLS
t
i m
■i
L TF.I
m
11
IS
4~
.... , T 1
n
Will
m
hi
Siiii
Make certain of winning YOUR
fight against Rheumatism by taking
Dr. Sheldon*s Gin Pills, the leading
Kidney Tonic sold in Australia.
D HEUMATISM is never serious
* at the onset, but .usually takes
months, sometimes even years, before
it becomes serious. Now the point
we want to bring home to you is that
it is in its early stages that you should
attack it, for it is then an easy matter
to drive Rheumatism right out of
your system for good and all, whereas
if you wait until it becomes unbear-
able it will take a far longer time to
dispel.
It is therefore obvious that the way
to win your fight against Rheumatism
is to attack it now—begin this very
day—call at your Chemist’s and buy
a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
and take according to directions.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are
made in one of the most modern
plants in Australia from the
highest quality ingredients
that money can buy. They
will assist the Kidneys to
quickly expel all excess uric
acid and other impurities
which have accumulated in
the blood streams and
which are the primary cause
of your Rheumatism. After a few days you will notice a decided
improvement—your Rheumatism will begin to fade away and your
general health will also greatly benefit.
Take the first step in completely ridding your system of Rheu-
matism by buying your bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills to-day.
Every Chemist always stocks them.
27 Pills, 1/9 60 Pills, 2/9.
DF SHELDON’S
GIN PILLS
FOR TH E RIDSE.VS
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
n
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
PAGES
&
&
c°‘
(Postage 2d. extra)
ifp
&
Obtainable
&
only
from
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection of S 1
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone. '
Price 1/6
wi 0 %
i „.e
0%
A\ 0
*s*
t^ 1
.• * .*■ ..• ‘ -oO^
..• > t) e Vt
■•" ...-"*£gysS.


There is only
ONE liquor—
that is “Schnapps”
m
m
&
r
«
I
1
iwwSW
<55
i
I
SS&S*
m
OLFE
=3ZRODUCT OF HOLLAND
: , ' t- s
ET 21 PWfS fl. OZ
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
is obtainable in large, half
and quarter size bottles at
all hotels.
The term "Schnapps” signifies a unique spirit
produced in Schiedam, Holland, and it originated
over a century ago with the introduction of the
distinctive beverage which has long been world-
famous in association with the name of "Wolfe’s.”
No other liquor possesses the potent medicinal
virtues that distinguish "Schnapps,” and no other
liquor can be truthfully described as "just the same
as Schnapps.”
To make certain of obtaining genuine, pure,
aromatic Schiedam Schnapps, always ask for
WOLFE'S
afli'cmwhx: cSuiudam
SCHNAPPS
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN
W. 5.135. B.F.P
