

Win
V
o
It isn't Cricket ...
((
said Johnnie Walker
H
re
“ that makes us take a short holiday from distilling in the
summer months. It is because there are certain processes in
the distilling of whisky which call for cool weather and naturally
cool fresh water; even a swift-running Highland stream is not
quite cold enough all the year round for all the processes of
fine distilling.
‘This holiday we give to whisky-making is just one instance of
the care taken in distilling, maturing and blending the Johnnie Walker
you enjoy on a fine summer day. When you hear the soda fizz into
the glass and the ice tinkle, you know (if you have asked for Johnnie
Walker by name) that you are going to have a really good drink.”
Johnnie Walker
Born 1820 still going strong ,
JOHN WALKER & SONS., LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3045.
Wednesday, June 22, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
GALLANTS OF THE NIB.
G. K. Chesterton once pointed out that the
village, where the passing of a tomcat, the birth of
a calf, even the painting of Brown’s fowlhouse and
the arrival of Jones’s new carpet, are of interest to
everyone, is really much more full of life than the
vast, impersonal city. And it is equally true that the
country newspaper, with its rich local color, is much
better fun for its readers than the city dailies are
for theirs. It is the mirror of its readers’ lives, as
no doubt the city papers, splashing crime and sex,
are not. If country people laugh at the local “rag”
—as they do —they laugh at it as the symbol of the
outward triviality of their neighbors’ lives. If they
are fond of it —as they always are —they are exhibiting
a very human fondness for themselves.
Its perennial appeal, even in the face of intense
competition from outside, is partly due to natural
vanity, the desire of every normal person to have
his name splashed with the limelight of printer's ink
at least once in his life ; partly to the fact that, since
it enters so much into the people’s lives, they feel
that they own it, just as they own the Post Office
clock, the local M.P., and Mr. Jamieson’s prize-
winning bull. Owning it pleases them, whereas to
own the average city paper, really to be responsible
for the frozen pomposity of the Sydney “Morning
Herald” day after day, or the nightly acrobatics of
the “Sun,” would be a vaguely distressing experience.
Partly, too, the flourishing of the country paper
is due to the survival of the “Old Roman” editor
whose passing from city journalism was lamented
in B. 1/6/’3B. The editor is part of the town’s life.
He joins every committee he can, from the Boy Scouts
and the school committee to the football club. Unless
he is lucky he is invited to become president of the
Mothers’ Group. Sometimes he likes that sort of
thing; but even if he comes back from the Girl Guide
bunfight to squeak and gibber at the wastepaper
basket, he has to pretend he likes it. He has to
meet the train to see if th 6 Higginbothams have
come back from Sydney. He attends funerals, and
counts the wreaths; weddings, and counts the
presents; dances, and counts the dead marines. He
rolls a reproving eye over the Court. He is passionate
in defence of his town against its upstart neighbors.
And though he is part of the communal life, he
is, when it is reasonably safe, an individualist, a critic,
a Voice. He thinks deeply about Shire Councils and
drains, local elections, and vandalism in the park.
Here is a country newspaper on the local con-
cert :
Although the fairly large audience which assembled
at the Town Hall last night to witness the first of four
nights’ production of the well-known musical comedy
“The Oriental” by the Amateur Operatic Society was
the most apathetic and unappreciative imaginable,
very little assistance or encouragement being given the
performers by the front of the house, the production
will go down as one of the most successful which the
society has put on.
We would, however, appeal to the audience to let
themselves go a bit more and show their appreciation of
a really good show in a more emphatic manner than
was evident last night. The production was staged and
dressed in a manner worthy of the largest centre.
That is more than personal: it is paternal. And
it is, too, a gem of tactful journalism. To praise the
concert in all its aspects would have been timorous ;
not to praise the performers, dangerous. So he re-
proves the audience, and every member of the audience
will agree with him that every other member of the
audience let the performers down. An audience as
a body is magnificently anonymous.
Fear of offending individuals or groups that are
not anonymous is the country editor’s worst handicap.
Subscriptions have been dropped because an editor
called the Blankford Ladies’ Croquet Club the Blank-
ford Women’s Croquet Club. Subscriptions were lost,
advertisers alienated and libel actions threatened
wholesale when a reporter wrote up a sports dinner
exactly as it happened, mentioning that Alexander
had told an unprintable anecdote, Brown made a
speech so long and rambling that he forgot to pro-
pose the toast which was the reason for it all, and
Robinson started to eat the decorations.
Politics, too, are extremely perilous country. To
keep all his subscribers happy, the editor has to be
a sort of spectrum, red and brown and green and
all the other colors of the ideological rainbow at once.
There was a Maoriland journal that sat on the fence
with really beautiful precision at the last election
when Labor was returned to power. The town
subscribers were Labor, the country National; on
the day the results were out, the leading article,
headed “Dashville May Well Be Pleased,” pointed out
that the country electors, since the district had returned
a National, might well be pleased, while the towns-
people, since M.L. as a whole had returned Labor,
might also well be pleased.
The newspaper from which the concert report
is quoted has elsewhere, in that “Local Items” column
where puffs for advertisements are mingled with
intelligences of bicycle accidents and outsize vegetable
marrows, a most dating paragraph:
Although it is not usual to hand up tributes to
favorite performers on the opening night of a season,
many of those taking part in “The Oriental” last evening
were the recipients of posies and boxes of chocolates.
There would be heartburnings about that, but
those who had committed the blunder would hardly
dare to acknowledge it by making a complaint, so
there again the gallant editor is safe.
For true valiance in the press one has to go
back to the decorous days of good Queen Vic.,
when editors hurled inkpots and imprecations,
allegations and antimacassars at each other or at
the public with the most admirable vim. It would be
practically impossible now, even from the most
gladiatorial of country editors, to find the equivalent
of the exquisite last sentence in this extract from the
gossip column of the late Victorian “Hawk”:
I am given to understand that, although Lord Dunlo
signed a paper in Australia agreeing to divorce his wife
on proper evidence, it is alleged he has since written
to her saying that he had no intention of parting from
her, and that he had signed the paper when in a state
when he was not responsible for his actions. Though
this seems incredible folly, it is not at all unlike Lord
Dunlo.
When the divorce came to court —an account of it
is given in Society Sensations (Hale), by Horace
Wyndham—counsel for Lord Dunlo, whose wife was
an actress, attacked the stage, and another newspaper,
“Era,” indignantly reproved him:
Sir Charles Russell indulged in some very unkind
remarks about the theatrical profession. He knows, as
well as most men —perhaps better —that there are temp-
tations in all walks of life. Doubtless, he also knows
that if it were not for the widespread and enormous
immorality in the legal profession the ranks of the
“unfortunates” would be a good deal thinner than-
they are.
To this, Mr. Augustus Moore, of “Hawk,” countered
vigorously:
I did not think it possible, for any editor in England
to publish so low and contemptible a paragrapji.
But even the low and contemptible paragraph had
a certain vitality. It was not a second-hand opinion.
When the virile old editor, all inkstains and indig-
nation, departed, personal interest went with him, and
the search for “human interest” began. So that we
have the third-hand personalities of Garbo and Robert
Taylor, cricketers, nitwits and criminals exploited for
all —and much more than —they’re worth in a vain
attempt to capture some trace of human relevance.
Apart from the excellence of the professional humor-
ous commentators and the very real charm of the
country newspaper, there is only the mild wonder
evoked by female publicists or long-distance tri-
cyclists to replace the vigor of the Old Roman.
S.
Will Lawson's Whalers.
A recent Red Page survey of the Australian
literary scene linked up the landscape writers who have
enjoyed such popularity since lon Idriess raised his
banner with the balladists whose names group them-
selves round that of Banjo Paterson. It was sug-
gested that their work was part of the same stream
of literary energy, renascent in prose rhythms.
The idea is supported by Will Lawson’s acces-
sion to the ranks of the landscapists—albeit with a
seascape—in his new book, Harpoons Ahoy! (Angus
and Robertson). In the tradition of the landscape
school —a very fortunate one for Australian popular
literature —he avoids the mechanical romantic plot,
and trusts for his romantic interest to the intrinsic
values of life. It is this that makes the work of these
writers a valuable part of Australian literature. It
is also, probably, the secret of their wide success ;
they turn off a romantic tale acceptable to all hands.
Will Lawson, among the foremost of the balladists,
gives us in Harpoons A hoy ! an excellent book.
Lawson has a gift, whether by hyperbole, imagery
or direct statement, for bringing detail up clear. The
mate of the Waterwitch has a watch of the old
turnip variety “with a winding stem like a miniature
bollard” ; the lookout in the rigging sees first the
“bushy spout” of the whale; when the harpooned
whale points his flukes and dives the line “screamed
out over the bows, making the wooden loggerhead
smoke.”
By such means Lawson shows his reader the
threshing flukes as the harpooner gets another one
in, when everything rests with the boat-steerer and his
single oar at the stern. At night, when the whale
has been towed alongside the ship and the boiling-
down fires are alight, “high aloft the smallest block
and rope showed clearly, the rigging was like a fire-
lit forest,” while the mainsail and foresail are like
“misty, ghostly clouds.” To the men, stripping the
blubber from the dead beast is “like market garden-
ing, all spade work and no flowers.”
Lawson says that at the height of the whaling
industry, 1849, over 700 ships were engaged in the
trade. Over 600 belonged to the United States and
47 to Hobart Town—the largest British fleet in the
Pacific. Sydney had 12 ships and Boyd Town about
10. Maoriland had bought several from the
Americans, including the Splendid.
It was the sperm whale they were after, not the
migratory whale that is hunted in the modern steam
whaler.
Lawson deals with ships that sailed and the men
who sailed them. His yarn is based on the life of
Captain McKillop, of Hobart, who rose from the
deck to a command, who gave him much material
at first hand and who was “practically the last of the
old-time whalers” when the Helen paid off at the end
of her last voyage in 1904.
He hunts the sperm whale first aboard the Water-
witch, but her crew, Tasmanians with a sprinkle of
roving Maorilanders, have sailed in many ships
and their yarns reveal a wider view of life with
the whaling fleet. Women as well as whales have a
part. There is the legend of a granddaughter of
Bonnie Prince Charlie kidnapped and marooned on
an island, and the story of the girl who shipped as
steward after her father had wagered her honor in
a Hobart Town gambling den and lost. McKillop—■
called McKinnon in the book—is kidnapped aboard a
Nantucket ship with a savage and blackguardly
skipper. He was not above punishing a man by keep-
ing him in an exposed hencoop for days ; he had a
man flogged with a tin of whitelead tied to the lash.
McKinnon finally escapes back to the Waterwitch.
The killing of several whales is described, and
without monotony, for each time some new aspect
of the battle comes to light. There is the runner
who races off towing the boat after him; the
“bottler” who dives and then ascends perpendicularly,
leaping high out of the sea ; then there are meetings
with individual whales, Spotted Bull, New Zealand
Tom, Solander Bill, semi-fabulous fighters who long
defy capture. To ensure concerted action in the face
of danger the oarsmen were not allowed to look at
the whale once the battle began ; the order was “Eyes
in the boat,” with the mate grasping a boat-stretcher
to see it was obeyed.
Pretty much the same rule applied in running
before an Antarctic gale. “Out of the Antarctic came
a roaring, tearing gale that swept the crests off the
seas and made a fog through which the Splendid still
fought on. In the hollows when she lost wind, her
sails flogged like thunder, then, as she rose again, the
gale filled them, making them hard as iron. The
helmsmen were forbidden to look behind.”
The ghostly islands of Antarctica are visited, each
made very real to the reader ; there are glimpses of
the hazards of sealing, then the ship heads north past
“the snow-capped Kaikouras” to forgather with
others of the fleet for a brief rest in the Bay of
Islands. Here Lawson lets his feeling for his native
Maoriland be seen in an attractive passage.
In the Bay of Islands the crews “gam”—visit—
from ship to ship. Heroic yarns are swapped. Then
the ships disperse, each to finish filling her oil casks
before she heads for home, with the girls of Hobart
Town “pulling hard on the towline.” The descrip-
tion of the whalers’ rollicking longshore days in
Hobart is a feature of the .book.
Only a suggestion of the hardships, hazards and
great deeds that make the substance of Harpoons
Ahoy! has been given here. To accompany Lawson
further in books like this would be enjoyable.
That Villain John Bull.
Those who believe that if John Bull gets
entangled in a war Uncle Sam will be there to back
him up might get some encouragement from England
Expects Every American to Do His Duty, by Quincy
Howe (Robert Hale, Ltd.).
Mr. Howe’s feeling on the matter is implicit in
h:s title—he’s agin it. John Bull is the arch-villain
in international relationships. He has been cracking
the whip and foolish Uncle Sam has been taking
headers through the hoop for generations. At present
he has Uncle Sam so bamboozled by diplomatic
villainy that Uncle’s in grave danger of going in
once more —with no profit to himself—just to keep
safe the world estates of that doddering old man
who, without that help, is doomed to pass hence.
For J. 8., in this view, is not merely the villain
of the piece ; he’s also decrepit. J.B. is heading for
the sunset; U.S. is up and coming, full of beans:
“The clock strikes high noon in the United States
at the precise moment when shadows begin to
lengthen throughout the empire on which the sun
never sets.” Also: “It is not Britain’s strength but
Britain’s weakness that America has to fear.” .To
Britain Anglo-American co-operation not only means
protection in the Pacific, but also “goodwill in
Canada, Australia and New Zealand.”
As for John Bull’s sly hand in American policy,
this American sees it in almost everything, from
the Monroe Doctrine to the present Roosevelt. “The
impetus for this move [declaration of the Monroe
Doctrine], like the impetus for all the preceding
revolutions [in South America], originated in Great
Britain.” Mr. Howe either states himself or has
somebody on hand to state for him that the Monroe
Doctrine was a “purely British device whereby the
United States underwrote Britain’s stake in Latin
America.” That accomplished, this old villain J.B.
next “devised the Open Door policy whereby the
United States underwrites Britain’s stake in the Far
East.” Then there was the League of Nations. “Many
Americans still regard the League of Nations as a
home product, designed by Woodrow Wilson and
imposed by him upon a reluctant world.” It was,
argues Mr. Howe, nothing of the kind. It was just
another thing concocted by J. 8., and wished on
innocent Uncle Sam.
John Bull’s villainising didn’t stop at that. He
had that ignoramus Hoover right in his pocket.
Hoover’s offer of a moratorium on war debts made
repudiation inevitable ; Hoover’s devotion to the gold
standard aided recovery in England by bankrupting
the United States; in the Orient Hoover involved
America still more deeply in the defence of British
interests at the risk of war with Japan. All this
through the machinations of J.B. Then there was
the Washington Conference, yet another device of
J.B. for hoodwinking callow Unc. And so we come
to the present Roosevelt, who “represented his South
American junket as an effort to keep the New World
out of any war in Europe or Asia,” whereas “actually
it served to establish another tie between the United
States and the League of Nations, since several Latin-
American States that attended the Pan-American
Peace Conference at Buenos Ayres are loyal members
o; the League.”
It should be said here in Mr. Howe’s favor that
his argument only occasionally gets as feeble and
thin as that.
At all events, he sees Uncle Sam now lined up
ready to obey J.B.’s orders. The Army and Navy
are not preparing to defend the continental United
States ; their plans and equipment call for “offensive
warfare and the invasion of foreign soil,” and, thus
equipped, Uncle Sam “stands ready to go to war with
any nation that commits the unpardonable offence of
threatening the vital interest of the British Empire.”
(■Continued on page 8.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— Always. •
ESTABLISHED 1823.
THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
HALF
YEARLY
GENUINE
mm
mm
x\
1 r
MM
,;, ' ■
iv ' 1- :&*»***■ •■■
f
■
H
H
■
i
n
1
■
9/6 ENGLISH DRILL OVERALLS
You’ll look neat and tidy on the job if you
wear these English Drill Overalls. Very-
strongly made, with treble-sewn seams that
cannot possibly break. Seven pockets, high
backs and strong rustless-metal fittings. Gov-
ernment Khaki or fast Hydron Blue. Sizes
3 to Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price 9/6
Sale Price 8/6
86
50/- Motor Cyclists’
WATERPROOF SUITS
Just what youn need ... a
thoroughly waterproof Suit. This
one has a double-breasted coat.
Strong Black Rubberised Cloth.
Suit comprises Coat and Trousers
in all sizes.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price 50/-
Sale Price 29/6
Q 96
211- Riding Trousers
Fawn, Olive or Dark Grey Woollen Riding
Twist Trousers. Cut and made in our
own workrooms. Strong, warm and ser-
viceable. Sizes 30in. to 46in. waists.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price .. 2:1/-
Sale Price 18/6
186
$ Men's Wear —Ground Flour, George Street. Freight paid
to all railway stations in N.S.W.' and seaports in the
Commonwealth.
So®
1
V‘<»
m~
wMR
SBS
si
n#
/M
5 ■ V/^M;
H?
m
zm/% I
V >^v>
gtg
Lfaiilli
$T 1
mm:M
m
m mm.
wm
m
&
n
i
m
■ s ,.*r
m
m
wmmm
iigpM|i
mam
amam
Ksas
\;
< W<&> /Ml
lii
i until
2S
M
; :vl
m
m
mmMm
mkmm
i
1
m
e
: ss
m
mmmM l
it
> ; -J
Hi
H
mMmmM
£
z JK-
M:
m
7/s
S&'i
2&&?
' ;j
/I
W
m
11
m
49/6, 39/6 ALL WOOL TWEED OVERCOATS
A.—A thoroughly warm Overcoat, made of All Wool Tweeds and fully-
lined Art. Silk. Single- and double-breasted styles. Light or Mid Greys . . .
neat patterns. Anthony Horderns’ Regular Prices 39/6, 49/6
Sale Price 27/6
/!
115/-ENGLISH TWEED RAGLAN OVERCOATS
B.—Tailored in our best possible manner. English Tweed Raglans in Grey,
Fawn and Brown tonings. Neat patterns. Cloth is proofed against rain.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price 115/-. Sale Price 105/-
105 /-
63/-All Wool Navy Blue Chesterfield Overcoats
A popular Overcoat for all occasions. The Chesterfield style is double-breasted
and tailored in the latest form-fitting style in our own workrooms.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price, 63/-. Sale Price 55/-
55'-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.
Postal Address: 2712 C, G.P.O. SYDNEY 'Phone: M 2401, Day and Night.


Early New Zealand by the Author of "Pageant”
PROMENADE
BY G.B. LANCASTER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY
A. STUART PETERSON.
11.
SSSEEEjGi&aIITH an empty treasury, and everybody
WMU m ! i n turne d gowns and napless top-hats,
1 W S | and young bloods envying the habitually
| « 1 j frock-coated (such a concealing garb),
SK Ak Auckland still contrived to be gay for
- ■ arriving officers. And amazing kind,
with the barracks on Britomart Hill
receiving daily bombardments of embroidered
carpet-slippers and smoking-caps, watchchains of
soft brown or black or golden hair, book-
markers. worked in bright silks with “Fair fare
the days for thee, Courage is a soldier’s armor”
and such other legends as might occur to innocent
minds. Seasoned gallants, turning out boxes full,
occasioned much merriment at the mess-table, where
Captain Richard Sackville offered to bet his collection
against all-comers. Even for Auckland it was some-
what remarkable, and Sackville held the floor tri-
umphantly between whisky and bumpers of milk-punch
until challenged to produce an offering from Tiffany
Lovel.
“Lovel? By all means. Slippers? ... no ; a
watch-chain? I’m selling off my brown hair watch-
chains cheap. Bartie, you can have this one for a
bob.”
“That’s Sophia,” said Bartie who had cause to
know.
“Eh? So it is, by Jove. Sophia and her Vestal
Virgins are pretty constant. Look here, I’ll sell you
a dozen Sophias for”
“Where’s a Tiffany?” said an inexorable voice.
“He ain’t got one. Nobody has. She can’t sew',”
said Bartie.
“That my eye! Every girl can sew. She just
don’t like men,” affirmed a lieutenant who had been
lately snubbed by Tiffany.
“Break that news gently, boys,” said Sackville,
sinking into a chair. “For years I have prayed for a
girl who don’t like men. Is my future friend red-
haired?”
“Coppery. Just meant for watch-chains. But
you’ll never get one. Bet you a pony you don’t,”
said the lieutenant.
A pony was a lot of money. Darrett must be
doosed sure, thought Sackville, refusing to bet. He
began to think that it might be worth while to get
more than watch-chains from this Tiffany Lovel . . .
whom he couldn’t remember meeting, but there were
so many girls.
“Let’s drink to her anyway. Bumpers. To the
elusive lady,” he cried, grinning at the lieutenant.
HB remembered Tiffany again when he went next
day to check over some information with Jermyn
Lovel, who knew so much about this confounded
country, and told of abnormal vendetta fighting, of
settlers leaving their ploughs to run for shelter, of
thousands of families being evacuated across the
strait to Nelson. “Time you fellows got to work,”
said Jermyn, telling dryly of lively young Maori bucks
divesting drunken whites of their trousers, which they
flew as derisive flags in their pas.
Sackville, who had been sent down the coast to
inform clamoring Poverty Bay settlers that the Gov-
ernment couldn’t help them, complained that he had
never felt such a fool in his life. “ ‘What the devil
are you doing on your side of the mountains?’ they
asked. And I’m damned if I could tell ’em.* - Nobody
could,” said Sackville, ruefully.
“We’re just waiting for the conflagration. To put
it out before it gets a good start was never the Eng-
lish habit,” said Jermyn, going on to discuss Gore
Browne, one of those honest and unlucky gentlemen
who manage to do so many right things in the wrong
way.
Sackville knew all about Gore Browne’s recent
journey into the Taranaki with the intention of settling
some thousands of sturdy Devon and Cornish immi-
grants on the rich land they had crossed the seas for.
Like all else it had been a mistake ; for Gore Browne,
told by everybody that all his anxious adjusting and
temporising was merely making him a by-word of
inefficiency, had taken a high hand.
With no land court or Parliament to advise him
he had plunged valiantly into the delicate intricacies i
of Maori pride and immemorial custom, and bought -
quantities of land from a chiefling called Teira, over
the proud head of Wi Kingi, chief of all the Ngatiawa
tribe. Wi Kingi, protesting bitterly against this in-
vasion of his country, felt that the building of a pa
on it would be an excellent counterstroke, while
Gore Browne kept all the Auckland clerks busy hunt-
ing for unprocurable land-titles and set surveyors
(who never had enough work anyway) to cutting
survey-pegs.
“Everyone knows that Teira only sold in order to
be revenged on the seducer of his wife,” said Jermyn,
shrugging. “To embroil an enemy with the pakeha is
the Maori’s most exquisite form of utu, and our Gov-
ernor has most amiably made himself Teira’s cat’s-
paw. So this pretty little domestic comedy is almost
certainly the war-trumpet we’re looking for . . . blown
by Governor Gore Browne.”
“What a merry world if every cuckold could re-
venge himself as gloriously as Teira,” said Dick Sack-
ville. He went off whistling “The Shan Van Voght.”
“The French are on the sea,” eh? Before he
went to meet them he must find time for another
pretty little comedy. This Miss Tiffany Lovel who
thought herself too fine to be kind to lonely soldiers
must be taught her lesson, the proud jade. Watching
her promenading on the new Wynyard-street pier,
standing aloof from her at parties, he considered the
best means of approach. A handsome hussy and
quite clearly a proud one.
I ADIES rode in bullock-drays to country dances,
*-with a frieze of attendant young bucks sitting un-
comfortably on the frame, sometimes feeling with a
tentative foot for a soft groping hand among the
scented cloud of veils and shawls and murmuring
laughter at the bottom. Hew Garcia, seeking Tiffany’s
hdnd and getting Sophia’s, could hardly have borne
it but for a recent interview with Mr. Lovel. Most
surprisingly it seemed that Mr. Lovel would wel-
come Hew as a son-in-law.
“I desire that all my children should settle in
this country which I have made my own,” said Mr.
Lovel, looking as much as possible like Sir George
Grey. “The land is the backbone of New Zealand,
and I have long felt that intelligent young men such
as yourself are the backbone of the land. I will in-
form Tiffany of my wishes at —ah —the next con-
venient moment.”
“It’s only right to tell you that I’m afraid she
don’t love me yet, sir,” said Hew nervously. But
Mr. Lovel had waved that aside.
“No girl of Tiffany’s age knows her own feelings.
It is for you to teach her, my dear Hew . . . No, do
not thank me. I have had this project in my mind
for long. Look to the matter.”
So Hew went to the dance in Mr. Harrington’s
barn hoping to teach Tiffany, though how to set
about it he had no notion, having tried so many un-
successful ways. Gaily the big brown barn invited
him with bunting, with the tuning-up of accordions
and violins, the red Turkey twill laid on grain-sacks
round the walls for seats. Already chaperons were
taking their places, arranging white lace shawls and
flowery caps, setting their fans waving. Already
bright crinolines and scarves were revolving down the
floor, and still Hew, his brown, honest face getting
anxious, went seeking Tiffany. Then he saw her
glowing in Dick Sackville’s arms, and sat down re-
signedly by Sally.
Tiffany, floating in silent ecstasy, felt that she
would never return to where she had been before
this miracle swept her up with it. Lovels, said Major
Henry, were intense, and joy and sorrow had always
come intensely to Tiffany. Just now she was hardly
conscious of joy, only of an intensify of living such
as she had never guessed at before.
Captain Sackville kept his hand on her arm when
the dance ended, leading her, not to Sally and the
Turkey twill, but out through the great doors to the
bush-clearing, sweet with the familiar mysterious sweet-
ness of night.
“I didn’t write you a note, Miss Lovel,” he said
in that easy laughing voice. “I wished to thank you
personally for your charming present.”
“My ?” Tiffany was stunned. “I sent you
no present, sir.”
“Please don’t jest with what has given me so much
happiness,” he said rather sternly. “I mean that silken
bookmark with ‘God keep you’ made of your lovely
hair,” he added gently. If this wasn’t a really in-
genious way of approach he didn’t know what was.
“But I don’t understand. I never sent you
anything,” gasped Tiffany in a panic near to tears.
What, oh what would he think of her? “Never.
Never. I would not send a gift to any man. You
know I would not.”
He was watching her closely in the faint starlight.
The tears had come quicker than he expected. They
were sparkling on her dark lashes. The distress of a
girl, he thought, the pride of a woman so finely mixed,
so piteously, indignantly holding him off. But he
had never been unable to get out of a fix yet.
“Of course I know, since you tell me so. Most
earnestly I ask your pardon. If I can only feel that
you grant me your forgiveness, Miss Lovel.”
“Yes, yes. I mean there’s nothing to forgive.
Someone must have used my name. I— I don’t
understand.” Oh, it was terrible to hear the gladness
go out of his voice, to see him stand with bent head
asking forgiveness.
“Nor I.” No, he couldn’t go on with that. This
story would never be told at the barracks after all.
“No one shall make free with your name again if
I can help it, Miss Lovel.” And most sincerely for
the moment he meant it.
111.
T¥ FTER some ten days, with only John for com-
f| pany, music grew stale, the bush had no more
magic, and Roddy rode breakneck over the
rough iiaCK to discover what had become of Eriti.
To Corny, very hot and unbuttoned in his untidy
room, he appeared so white and pitiably frigfit-
ened by the silence of the house, so young and gal-
lant in the soiled duck trousers and blue jacket of
his working days, that Corny muttered in his grizzled
beard, pouring the boy a tot of rum before he would
hear him speak. These youngsters, making such a
tragedy of love, which every sane man knew was
only the gooseflesh of a moment, thought Corny,
speaking to Roddy gently.
But Roddy would have none of his gentleness.
He wanted the truth, sir. The truth ... So he got it,
and his world went reeling round him, with Corny’s
red face like a sun in the middle. He clutched the
table-edge, trying to steady his legs, his voice.
“You mean —you can’t mean you’ve taken her
away?”
“Now, now, Rod. Let’s look at this as man to
man.”
“What have you done with her?”
“Now, do sit down, Rod, and”
“Curse you! Tell me, or by God, I’ll make you.”
Oh, these melodramatics of youth, thought Corny,
trying to remember his own and be tactful.
WHAT WENT BEFORE,..
To New Zealand in 1839 come Lovels —
Peregrine, tall, lean, efficient; Sir John, his
elder brother; bluff, bragging old soldier Uncle
Henry ; Jermyn, the untried boy; John’s
Lady Caroline ; Peregrine’s young wife
Sally r her younger sister Darien —all of
them impoverished in England, but ready,
under Peregrine, to found a new aristocracy in
a new land.
They settle at Kororareka Beach, neigh-
bors to Corny Fleete and his half-caste
brood, to Nick Flower the trader, “own
brother to Peregrine on the wrong side of the
blanket,” to all the conglomerate riff-raff of
the Beach. Peregrine builds a shipyard;
builds, too, a family.
In 1840 New Zealand is annexed to the
Empire and a new capital founded at Auck-
land Peregrine goes there with Lovels when
the Maoris raid the Beach, and sets up the
shipyard again, sending John out to establish
a farm.
Darien marries a young officer, Lord
Calthorpe, and Jermyn, writing now for the
‘Chronicle,” tries to persuade Sally from her
“virtuous promenade” with Peregrine.
Nick Flower, continuing to prosper, and
owning now [so rumor said) half Auckland,
beats Peregrine for a seat on the newly-arrived
provincial council. The first Parliament — Pere-
grine has a seat —opens in 1854 and closes
again without having done anything. Peregrine
has worries, too, with his children —with the
eldest, dreaming Roddy, whom he sends to
John’s farm ; with the nut-brown maid Tif-
fany, “so ardent for life.” His mother asks
the tribe to train Hemi Fleete for chieftain-
ship. Caroline arranges for her daughter
Linda to marry a sheepman from the south.
Corny Fleete tells Peregrine ■ that Roddy and
one of his daughters have been lovers; that
he has sent the girl to the tribe to marry a
Maori.
Tiffany falls in love with a young officer,
Dick Sackville.


“Well, she’s gone to be married to a fine young
Maori, who’ll make her a good husband . . . which
you didn’t seem to be meaning to do, young man.”
“1 did. Of course I meant to marry her. And I
will . . . Oh, God, sir,” cried Roddy, suddenly blind
with tears, “you didn’t think I just meant to harm
her, did you? But I knew I was too young and my
father . . . and in the meantime I . . . we”
“I know all about those ‘meantimes.’ So did she
when she went chasing you,” said Corny grimly. Look-
ing at the boy sprawled in a chair with his head on
the table he softened again.
“Come, come, Rod, old fellow, face it like a
man. You couldn’t have married her, you know.
Only the kind of marriage I made, and there was
some excuse for me, since I needed a chief’s protec-
tion and there were damn few white women about in
those days. Though I wish I hadn’t now,” said Corny
frankly. “It ain’t fair to breed up half-castes that are
neither flesh nor fowl . . . and the whalers have left
plenty to get the sins of their fathers visited on ’em.”
Roddy was not listening. He looked up, feeling
his face gone curiously stiff and old. “Tell me where
she is, Mr. Fleete, and I will go and marry her at
once. My father can say what he likes.”
“You’re both minors, Rod. No parson would
do it without the consent of the fathers. And you
won’t get that, you know. Eriti’s all right . . . much
better off than she could be with you” . . . These
youngsters! Never looking a foot ahead . . .
“She’s not married yet? Not having her lips”
He couldn’t say it. But Corny did.
“That is already being done, Rod,” Lovel had
been right. The revulsion of disgust and horror on the
boy’s face showed it, and certainly Maoris had a queer
taste to prefer the bloated seamed lips of tattoo to
fresh young girlish ones. But of course they never
kissed. Only rubbed noses. And it helped to keep
women chaste. No Maori buck could possibly plead
ignorance if he went poaching. “Here! For heaven’s
sake, don’t do that!”
But Roddy had already done it. Exhausted by
want of food and sleep, by grief and shock, he had
fainted flat on the floor like any young lady whose
stays are too tight.
He regained his courage with his senses. Breed-
ing there clear enough, thought Corny, watching him
ride off over the hill to Lovel Hall. I hope Lovel will
treat him decently, thought Corny, doubting it and
drinking the rum Roddy had ignored.
PEREGRINE, meeting Roddy in the hall, inquired
what he had come for, and was told with a violence
that made him push the boy into the library and set
his back to the closed door.
“You dare use such language to me, sir! Apolo-
gise instantly.”
“Go to the devil,” shouted Roddy. “I know it’s
all your doing, you meddling old brute. You’ve
ruined lives with”
“Dear me,” said Peregrine caustically. “All this
commotion about a vulgar liaison with a Maori girl.”
Here Roddy unexpectedly showed himself to be
even more Lovel than Tiffany, and Peregrine (though
righteously furious and shocked) realised that in some
dim way he was rather pleased. Roddy would be a
man yet. He held his own quite capably through
the following storm which was so considerable that
Darien, spending the afternoon with Sally, said that,
though she couldn’t hear words, it sounded as if
Roddy was being rude to his father.
Sally, although soon reduced to weeping, knew
that she hoped Roddy was ; and then cried the more,
for, of course, it was so wicked to hope it. But when
Roddy went rushing through the hall to his room
and slammed the door behind him she clung to Darien.
“I —I fear they’re both Lovels,” she sobbed.
“Roddy has the better lungs,” said Darien,
giggling. Peregrine had been reduced to squeaks. Sally
couldn’t giggle. This, she felt desolately, had been a
quarrel between men. Her little boy had become a
man, and so she dared not go kiss and comfort him.
Tiffany dared later, taking Roddy’s hot hand as he
lay on his bed in the shadows. “Don’t touch me,
damn you,” he said, jerking it away. Tiffany stood
stricken. His hand was burning, and below the
tangled hair drops showed on his forehead. She went
on her knees.
“Oh, darling . . . what is it? Tell your Tiffy,”
she whispered, putting her soft lips to the wet fore-
head.
But this could not be borne. Eriti’s lips . . .
never, never would he kiss those pouting duskily-pink
lips again. In the dim room he saw them all the time,
saw the sharp pipi-shell cutting thin line on line
right back to the rosy gums, saw the merciless old
tohunga squatting, the blood, the suffering Eriti lying
moaning, with her gentle eyes . . .
“Get away. Get away. Get away!” he cried
hoarsely. Never would he let himself be touched by
a girl’s hands or lips again. Roddy, so ridden by his
ideals, certainly as one can be at nineteen that life
could never smile on him again.
IN old Patiti’s pa, Eriti, her mouth bloated like a
bladder, was being delicately fed through the corner
of it with a straw. She was feeling immensely impor-
tant. The whole pa was serving this half-white grand-
daughter of the great chief, come to be married to
one of his chieftains—Koperoa. When the pain was
very bad she cried a little for Roddy. But he could
never have married her, and her child would have
been nothing. Now Koperoa would formally adopt
it, and she would be respected all the more because
of its white blood . . . which was so very comfort-
ing, thought Eriti, rolling her eyes with gratitude
towards Koperoa.
Already the women were making fine mats for
Eriti’s house, and the young men were putting their
nets in the river and drying fish on scaffoldings for
the wedding feast. Later there would be expeditions
after pigs. A hundred pigs, twenty oxen, all the sheep
they could get, and heaps of maize, gourds, and
kumeras a hundred feet long, decided Patiti, sending
runners round the country with the invitations. War
might be near, and the pakeha of little account; but
white blood was always a distinction. Besides, no
Maori will miss any possible chance of giving a feast,
although (as often happened) the guests might eat him
into penury.
Swamped with pride and honors, Eriti thought
more and more of Koperoa, who had danced the
whole night through with his warriors after she had
given him the ropa, and was so strong he could walk
easily with a sack of wheat under each arm —and so
daily she thought less of Roddy.
But in town a startled community was for the
moment thinking of no one else. Young Rod Lovel
had disappeared. Dragnets in the harbor, hue-and-
cry over the hills could not find him. Sir Winston
seemed to have the rights of it when he declared that
the heir of all the Lovels had passed away like the
morning dew.
IV.
CHROUGH all the hubbub Sally was agonised with
shame. She had been so wicked. In the night
she had stolen money for Roddy from the house-
keeping and sent him away with tears and blessings.
“I will write under cover of Jermyn,” said Roddy,
who had become such a man all at once that one
couldn’t protest. And now she was defying the Holy
Immolation of Matrimony and Mr. Lovel, since
Roddy had ordered that papa was to think him dead.
Watching Mr. Lovel preparing to think Roddy
dead was so difficult that Jermyn, seeing her tending
her roses in bright sunlight, was shocked into remem-
bering that Sally was thirty-five—and looked more,
egad—while he was barely in the height of his powers.
So for the first time he felt pity for her instead of
himself (which was quite rejuvenating), and went off
so soon and so cheerfully that Sally stood looking
after him with hanging hands. It was all over now.
Quite over, and Jermyn’s face had said it.
Peregrine fulfilled everyone’s expectations by for-
bidding Roddy’s name to be mentioned and by pub-
licly announcing Brian as his heir. Brian, now in the
shipyard with his long, shrewd head and dandy ways,
would help keep Lovel fortunes together until Jerry
went to Canterbury next year with Hew and Tiffany,
said Mr. Lovel, dealing out his belongings like kings
and jacks.
Jerry was willing. He haunted the stock markets
and could talk sheep with anyone. Although (since
Eriti had sisters) it would not be safe to send him to
stupid John, thought Peregrine, promenading with
Sally in the Gardens where, despite poverty, gentle-
men’s fashionable loose trousers seemed also to be
contemplating crinoline at no distant date. He could
not let his house in these days, and Caroline at least
served to keep the moth out, he felt, seeing her
advancing with a daughter on either side. The moth
(it seemed) had got instead into Sophy and Maria, who
now wore Caroline’s cast-offs, so that Jermyn called
them her garb and garbage.
“Poor Lord Calthorpe is certain he’ll be killed
this time,” Caroline told Sally. Now that he was
Darien’s husband Calthorpe seemed to expect Fate
to take special interest in him ; but Peregrine was more
interested in hearing that Nick Flower had returned
for the next meeting of the council and intended to
veto the grant for the harbor board.
Mr. Flower, retorted Peregrine, was not the
whole provincial council, and since he never chose
to attend meetings he could not expect consideration.
yET, for all Peregrine’s elegance and eyeglass, he
felt unhappy under Nick Flower’s keen, amused
look when they met in the council. Last time I saw
you you were not so sure of yourself, it said. Nick
Flower was apparently sure of himself. Vastly dif-
ferent from the civil trader of Kororareka, this pros-
perous bearded giant, pouring contempt on pioneers
for their treatment of the Maoris, their imbecility in
the papers (where the Maoris read every word), their
horse-racing and regattas and petty squabbles, while
every native in the country was working like the
deuce to prepare for war.
Town councils, said Flower, who seemed to have
gained so much in size and vituperation, were merely
tinkling symbols of inefficiency. Provincial councils
were a collection of rank individualists who never had
the sense to get together and vote a reserve for the
war which was certainly coming. They had allowed
private trading vessels to smuggle ammunition to
the Maoris for years . . .
Peregrine could scarcely believe it. The un-
paralleled impudence of this attack was too much.
He rose to say that Mr. Flower knew very well where
suspicion lay in that matter.
“I know a good deal, as you are aware,” said
Flower, coolly. Peregrine quaked, fearing that he
would tell it. Good God, thought Peregrine, why
didn’t I simply choke Caroline instead of going to
Flower on an affair so private, so sacred.
“If there has been smuggling, Mr. Flower”
“Come, come, don’t be so uncivil as to pull the
wool over these gentlemen’s eyes, Mr. Lovel. You
know there has.” Flower was enjoying himself. A
lost belief in saints left nothing to reverence, and
underground ways. And since he needed Lovel’s
scanty boat-services no longer it was well to establish
his integrity in the eyes of councillors who might
prove useful when war came. Run with the hare,
hunt with the hounds, keep a sharp eye ovei' the
shoulder for snapping jaws, thought Flower, con-
tentedly watching Peregrine trying to snap and mak-
ing rather a botch of it, since he was clearly afraid
to provoke Flower too far. One slip, thought Pere-
grine, nearly frantic, can put one at a man’s mercy
for ever.
Councillors (so used to personal attacks) were
amused but suspicious. Certainly there had been
smuggling. Certainly it would be vastly dangerous
if it continued during war. Certainly Mr. Lovel had
been the first to start regular trading down the coasts
. . . They agreed to look into the matter and went on
to other pressing business, with Peregrine summon-
ing all his forces to give efficient help, and Flower
presently lounging away.
There would be some bungling kind of an in-
quiry, which wouldn’t get anyone anywhere. But it
would do Lovel harm, and his manner to-day would
do him more. Some moral cowardice in Lovel had
forced him to share suspicion of his wife with an-
other. It would force him into other mistakes yet.
V.
CORD CALTHORPE, having invited Fate’s atten-
tion to himself, had to suffer for it. A stray
bullet found him on the edge of one of the tribal
wars, and his widow sat in her house receiving shoals
of commiserations, while Sophia eagerly offered her
hair-shirt. “I told Darien I never wore it now,” she
explained to Tiffany. “I’m sure it would be such a
comfort. But she said it was the last thing she
wanted.”
Darien was at first not certain what she wanted,
but she soon knew. After shedding a few tears for
Calthorpe and feeling that he might have been much
worse, she investigated his papers and found that
he couldn’t possibly have been. Debts stood about
his name like a strong stockade . . . and how could
Darien pay them even if she wished, which she didn’t?
Why should she, since Calthorpe never had?
What I want, she said, is money, and I haven’t
a cent. She thought of Nick Flower. But he had
never lent her that fifty pounds, and Calthorpe owed
him thousands. Perhaps he’d marry her now . . .
But she wanted to taste her liberty, and there would
be monstrous little of it with Nick Flower. He’d take
my diamonds to redeem that debt, she felt, knowing
that was what she’d do herself. He’d take her, too,
body and soul ; and the independence growing in
Darien revolted at that. Men always wanted so much.
Now was the chance, she thought, to make thou-
sands out of wool and sheep. But (these hateful huts!)
how do it without money? Sir John! She’d go and
do her necessary mourning with Sir John, and per-
haps the silly old dear would give her half his flock.
Or she might find a rich farmer who would be easily
managed. Feeling her spirits leaping again, Darien
pulled off her widow’s cap with its dangling tails
(she’d be hanged if she would wear it at the farm),
and sat down to write to the Dowager Lady Cal-
thorpe, saying she was penniless and begging a thou-
sand pounds.
“Have you a stamp?” she asked of Tiffany com-
ing in. “Good gracious, child, what’s the matter?”
Tiffany was nearer a breakdown than anyone
ever had seen her. Her warm color was gone and
there were dark lines under her eyes. But she stood
her ground. This, she felt, was no time to be a
coward. Papa, she said, wanted Hew to go down and
manage the Canterbury property and take her with
him as his wife.
“I swear to God I will never do it,” declared Tif-
fany, keeping her voice steady with an effort.
“H’m.” Darien pinched her lip. First Roddy
and then Tiffany. Peregrine would get more than
he bargained for yet. But what a chance for Hew,
who had wanted Tiffy so long and would be out of
the war when it came. “What does Dick Sackville
say?” she asked. If signs meant anything, Tiffany had
cast a spell on that blithe rover.
Tiffany sank down with face in her hands, and
Darien feared she was going to pray. Buddhist,
Mohammedan, what did Tiffy think she was now?
“Oh, how could I tell him such a thing?” she
sobbed, as though Sackville, of all men, should be
kept in cotton-wool.
“Bah!” said Darien, going over and turning up
the sweet flushed face to kiss it. “Leave that to me,
my dear.”
It was long, she felt cheerfully, since she had had
her finger in such a pie as this promised to be.
I.
p®|Sijffl||j]OßTALS inured to living in a continual
| bracing-up for expected shocks are
| | M rarely ready to meet the shock when it
\ if fra I occurs ; and so war, arriving at last in
raj the March of 1860, was first greeted
with shrugs of incredulity which
speedily turned into the most inordinate
activity. Gore Browne, going down into the Waikato
to quell insurrection, had, with his usual ill luck, pro-
voked a battle in which, trumpeted the “Chronicle” in
huge headlines:
“Two men were killed, our Governor, unfor-
tunately, not being one of them.”
More dignified, “The Southern Cross” spoke of
the writing on the wall, the Queen’s sovereignty, and
the Gotterdammerung of the Maoris —which last the
Maoris took for a new kind of curse, and instantly set
their tohungas to combat it with worse ones.
Under chilly autumn skies a startled Auckland
(and presently Wellington) became armed camps, with


every male between the ages of sixteen and sixty im-
pressed for the militia, and regulars buzzing brightly
like bees which had found something to sting at last.
White-faced women, finding no security in truculent
husbands for ever holding meetings and pipeclaying
sword-belts (only the pipeclay seemed to get on every-
thing else first), prayed in the churches ; and Tiffany,
kneeling in St. Paul’s, clutched Sally’s hand tightly
and tried to forget Sophia loudly sobbing on her other
side. Mamma, although the tears ran down her face
and she seemed smaller than ever, was unaccount-
ably something to hold on to now.
“This life isn’t all, darling,” said mamma with
shining eyes. “There is always eternity, you know.”
But what was a possible eternity to Tiffany with
Dick going to be killed in the present? He was Dick
now . . . and how could that care-free gay spirit ever
have been anything else? And she was his bunch of
cherries, his widow’s cruse and all the other non-
sensical dear names he was always finding for her.
Just the threat that Hew was to have her, he
told Tiffany, had set him blazing. So he went in a
blaze to Peregrine, to be icily refused, and then to
Tiffany to be not refused at all. Tiffany now bowed
her face in gloved hands, glowing still with the
memory of how she had said that not even papa had
the right to dispose of her heart, and Dick had said
—what hadn’t he said, with his brown face all tender
and laughing at her?
“You witch,” he had said, half-reproachful, half-
puzzled, “what, have you done to me? I vow I have
never wanted anything as 1 want you. I want you
more than I ever wanted a nip after a hard march,
and how can that be?” said Dick. “Captive of your
bow and spear. A nice fate for a soldier, egad,” he
said, taking her in his arms with kisses . . . oh, kisses
. . . whispering words that lost their common mean-
ing and turned into flying enchantments round her
head. Tiffany, meeting a man’s love with love for
the first time, had no scales with which to gauge her-
self.
Tiffany was (thought Darien, who had gone to the
farm instead of to churches) in such a state of intoxi-
cation that anything might happen and probably
would. Well, not my business if it does, thought
Darien, abandoning responsibility for Tiffany in favor
of merino rams and John’s great Clydesdales, which
the army would take to haul munition-wagons.
The organ began to grind out a hymn, and in a
flutter of ambers, pinks and mauves, a rustle of silks,
everybody stood up.
Oh, God, our help in ages past,
Our hope for years to come,
sang Sally, hearing her voice so full of tears for Brian,
dandified in his new uniform, for Jermyn, already
gone to be a special reporter at the front.
PICK SACKVILLE, bullying an awkward squad,
bullying his batman, poring over maps, inspecting
legs and mouths of horses coming in by the dozen,
doing, like everyone else, a hundred matters at once
in the midst of such noise and bustle as one couldn’t
believe, discovered himself so enraged with Fate that
he did not understand it, being one who usually took
life easy.
Just when I’ve found the sweetest thing I’ve ever
known, he thought, tumbling the contents of boxes,
bags and wallets on the floor preparatory to packing.
“Brown, if you don’t keep that door shut—oh, it’s you,
Carstairs. What d’you want?” he snapped.
Carstairs wanted somebody to condole with him.
“Our good colonel —always at his little games of make-
believe —saying we can get everything through on
packhorses,” complained Carstairs. “Any fool knows
we’ll need every ammunition and commissariat wagon
we’ve got.”
“Mean to drive ’em up and down the town?
No roads anywhere else,” said Sackville, sorting socks
and bundles of letters out of the heap.
“Make the roads as we go ... as we have to
make everything in this blasted country,” said Car-
stairs, picking up a stray photograph. “A nice little
miss. Yours to command, Dick?”
“No,” said Sackville, flinging it into the fire.
“It’s Miss Tiffany Lovel now, ain’t it? No
luck there, my hearty. His Omnipotence intends her
for a colonial bog-trotter.”
“Oh, shut up,” said Sackville, shovelling bundles
of letters tied with blue and pink ribbons, with tresses
of hair into the fire. Never anyone else for me now,
he thought, wondering rather uncomfortably how often
he had thought that.
“The Waikato is in flood again,” said Carstairs.
“We’ll have to raft everything over if we don’t all go
round by New Plymouth. Well, God save the Queen.”
“And Gore Browne for upholding her authority,”
said Sackville sourly.
“Don’t blame it on her, poor lady. She’d have
had more sense. This is going to be considerably
nastier than our Indian frontier scraps, Dick.”
Sackville knew that, and when Carstairs was
gone after commenting on the way a new love affair
always spoiled an old mate’s sense of humor, he
kicked all the stuff together, bade Brown take it
away and pack it, and then flung himself into a chair
by the fire, too miserable to light a pipe.
To love such a girl as Tiffany was enough to
spoil any man’s sense of humor . . . when he couldn’t
get her and must go off to what would likely prove
a particularly foul kind of warfare instead. She’d
marry him to-morrow if that cursed father of hers
He sprang up, walking restlessly, seeing her face
whichever way he turned.
“No other girl,” he said, indistinctly. “No other
for ever. I swear it.” '
11.
CHROUGH the grey dawns regiments marched up
the Khyber-road and across wet bracken to
Manakau Harbor, where boats took them over
the bar to waiting ships that would carry them round
the rough west coast to New Plymouth. No harbor
at New Plymouth, but the soldiers wouldn’t discover
that —and very much else—until they reached it. All
the day bugles blew and drums rolled, wagon-wheels
rolled, going with loads of spades and shovels and
drums of nails to build little redoubts, making roads
about Auckland.
Caroline started a bandage-class and took her
daughters, daily to the hospital where they were not
welcomed by the military surgeons. Sally and others
made blue shirts for the militia ; Peregrine was full
of speeches, persuading grants out of the harbor
board and the council for the roads, and Darien
baulked all attempts of the military to secure John’s
Clydesdale stallion, imported from Melbourne.
“If you hadn’t me to look after you you’d give
them everything, you patriotic, idiotic darling,” said
Darien, stamping about in John’s boots, with skirts
kilted above her flannel petticoats. Money beyond
dreams in stock now, if only John would realise it.
With Nick Flower’s help she could make a fortune
out of this war. But Flower would be in Taranaki
making his own fortune; importing, juggling, selling
spades, nails, fodder, ammunition to the highest
bidder. She called Lucilla, whom Caroline had sent
to the farm as chaperon, apparently feeling that no
man was safe with Darien. As though she wanted
men, who never gave a woman any money, when she
could have merinos and Clydesdales, which did.
“Wait till I get these boots off, Lu, and I’ll give
you another curtsy-lesson,” she said. “Get your fan.”
Lucilla at fourteen promised to be worth putting
another finger in a pie for. Momentarily Darien won-
dered what was happening in Tiffany’s pie. But
Tiffy would have to look after herself now. Darien
couldn’t spare any more time for her.
SACKVILLE’S detachment was scheduled to leave
on a certain date for New Plymouth, and Tiffany
counted the days as they flew past, piling themselves
so high with work for him that meetings came but
seldom. Dances and routs would soon raise their
heads again, the human mind being unconquerably
elastic ; but in the first flush of excitement blue shirts
and long white rolls of bandages were in the ascen-
dant, and ladies tearing up the linen trousseau sheets
marked with their maiden names were still in the
painful throes of believing that it is more blessed to
give than to receive.
Now Dick would be gone in two days, and only
once had they met alone since all this grief began,
thought Tiffany, singing Moore’s “Melodies” with
Emily in the Lovel Hall drawing-room (so snug in its
warm amber and umber winter coverings) and seeing
beyond the open window the young men smoking on
the verandah.
“If you can’t keep tune or time a,t least you
might keep the words,” cried Emily, very plaintive.
And now the men had come in, filling the room
with their masculinity ; singing, turning compliments
(since every young man of fashion must have the
parlor graces), being very gay to hide their secret
anxiety, while Tiffany and Captain Richard Sackville
stole glances, feared to steal words ... I can’t bear
it. This can’t be the end, thought Tiffany, rushing
from the bright room and the smiling faces, rushing
out to the chill autumn scent of dying leaves.
It was there he found her, crouched like a hare
in the wet bracken that still held its stand on the rim
of the encroaching garden.
“Tiffany?”
Life, Love . . . what are they but the one when
youth lights the torch for passionate hearts at parting?
in.
CROOPS were pouring in red-hot from Australia
and Tasmania, leaving the game of guarding con-
victs for the sterner game of war. Clippers racing
Home with their cargoes of wool and hides carried
frenzied appeals for the help which England sent with
rising indignation. Did that impossible country want
all her regiments in order to settle these puerile dis-
agreements? The iron in Peregrine was turning to
steel. Brian must go to the war. In a year Jerry
would go. Roddy (if he still lived) would go. This
country which he had struggled for twenty years to
develop meant to take all his splendid sons from him,
did it? So he went up to the barracks to enlist in
the militia, and found Corny there, his red face pale
and sagging.
“Haini an’ all the boys have gone off to join
the Maoris,” said Corny. “I’ve always told ’em I’d
shoot ’em myself if they did. I will, too. God save
the Queen,” said Corny, staggering a little as he went
to put his name down.
There was the first of the half-caste tragedies.
But there would be many more.
So England’s nursemaiding of the Maoris was
over; and very pleased the Maoris were, with young
men from many tribes which had nothing to do with
Taranaki joyously dropping spades and paddles and
rushing to try their tupara-guns in this pleasant game
of war. War with the pakeha, with other tribes,
blazing up everywhere like the fire in the fern, like
the little homesteads, the sown crops that smoked to
the chilly skies. Ministers chartered a brig and came
up the coast to open Parliament and say what they
thought of Gore Browne for presuming to start a war
without them, and New Zealand s South Island, secure
from menace, banged the big drum for the sovereignty
of the Queen.
“Shall the British race truckle to a handful of
savages?” cried the South, while the North labored
and sweated and cursed its way through constant rain
to the front ... so far as there was a front, with
Maoris jumping in every direction like jack-in-the-
boxes. “Come, tread on our feet —make haste,” they
cried exultantly ; while the women, carrying heavy kits
of kumeras and gourds and maize up the cultivated
slopes of the big pas to fill the storehouses, stopped
now and then to send their shrill “Riria . . . fight on”
out into the wilderness.
IN Te Patiti’s pa Hemi and other stalwarts worked
furiously at setting the new palisades of huge
squared tree-boles with jagged tops, digging under-
ground saps of long, winding ways, digging trenches
behind the outer fortifications. Excellent engineers
though the Maoris were, all this was of no use against
the English cannon, thought Hemi, pausing to rub
the rain from his face, for it was always raining now,
and about him in the rain the great trees stood in the
mist like ghosts.
It’s all of no use, thought Hemi. He had read
of the Crimea, the Indian Mutiny, the English Queen
sitting on her golden throne in London town. Every-
where went the English like bees. Kill one and you
have an angry dozen at your door. But Hemi’s begats
(Tihane had said) went back further than those in the
Bible. He must fight for the Maori. He could not
shame his begats.
Dirty crumpled newspapers coming in to be dried
and read at the council fires told of many gold dis-
coveries in the South, of railways, whatever they might
be. The South, too, was rude about the Maoris,
though evidently not intending to join the fight. And
the North was clamoring for the return of Governor
Grey, whom they hated so much. Even he would
be better than this present muddling Gore Browne,
said the papers. But they said that of every Governor.
“Has the English tribe no head chief at all?” inquired
Te Patiti.
pROVIDENCE had turned Puck to torment the
* English ; for it was a cruel winter of endless rain ;
and everywhere half-downed bullocks churned up soil
rich with the deposit of endless centuries in struggling
to haul the sunken wagons; and men, rigorously
strapped and buttoned into tight uniforms and choking
collars, unhappily unloaded the heavy cases, and
strained with the bullocks, and loaded up again.
“Are the military doing anything except bring all
the mud of the bush into Auckland?” demanded
gentlemen, seeing carts, caked to the axles, creaking
slowly in with the wounded under the soaked blue
blankets. Tiffany went daily to the hospital now,
carrying delicacies for the wounded. But Dick was
not there. Once she had ridden out to the farm with
Jerry, and Darien looked at her askance. With a
dozen young horses to be daily curry-combed that
they might bring their price she wanted no sentimental
outpourings from Tiffany who, with Dick Sackville
to help her, would certainly have experienced some-
thing.
Tiffany made no effort to outpour. While Jerry
and Caroline’s Lucilla talked Auckland on the
verandah, Tiffany stood straight and slim in her riding-
habit by the fire and asked if Aunt Darien would
forward any letters that came for her under cover,
please. “You could send them in vegetables or some-
thing. Papa always opens anything in the way of
letters,” said Tiffany, looking into the fire that made
her eyes so bright.
“H’m,” said Darien. “I suppose you’ve already
arranged it with your correspondent?” No man, cer-
tainly not Dick Sackville, would keep his head with
a Tiffy looking so divinely glorious and young, though
less merry than she used to be.
“Yes,” said Tiffany. She hesitated a moment.
“Thank you,” she said, taking up her whip and gloves.
Darien, although asking no confidences, was
naturally annoyed at not getting them. “Those who
have been there say it is hotter fighting than in the
Crimea,” she remarked, pulling off her heavy boots.
“I always thought it would be. Nick Flower’s the
only man I know who puts the Maori at his real
value.” I wonder when I’ll see him again, she thought,
regarding the arch of her foot . . . quite as fine as
when he brought her those slippers from Sydney.
Some day she would get into fallals once more and


astonish the macaronis. But I must make some money
first, she thought, kissing Tiffany good-bye, watching
her ride away in the rain. Tiffy had never gushed like
poor old John’s girls. Perhaps, thought Darien re-
sentfully, she hardly gushed enough.
THE war went on, taking the incoming regiments,
taking Hew and Brian, swallowing them up in the
deep bush and giving back nothing but helpless men.
The hazard, the desperate allure of colonisation, was
beginning to reveal itself to Peregrine as a mocking
dream, when Roddy returned as another mocker;
walking in one evening as the family drank tea, look-
ing round with a genial air.
“Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I hope
I find you well,” said Roddy courteously, being every
inch a man, especially with two females instantly hang-
ing on his neck and expressing joy (in the usual
manner of females) by tears.
Peregrine gulped his mouthful of cake ; felt the
world reel round him ; asserted himself with an icy :
“May I ask the meaning of this intrusion?”
“It means that he’s come home,” cried Tiffany,
laughing. Such a different Tiffany all in a moment,
glowing like a rose in her wine-color gown. Roddy
had come. Roddy, her other self, from whom she had
never had any secrets. All the lovely past which she
would never, never regret would be so enriched by
Roddy now, with his old blue pea-jacket, his grace-
ful air.
“How are you, sir?” inquired Roddy, coming
up beaming through a perfect fountain of kisses.
“Is that all you have to say after your—
your?” Peregrine choked, quite unable to accept
this version of the Prodigal Son.
“I’ve been over on the Nelson side: Collingwood
goldfields,” explained Roddy. “Of course, I came
back to enlist as soon as I heard of the war.”
“Oh, my dearest, you’re so wet,” cried Sally,
actually ignoring Mr. Lovel. “You must change at
once, and how shocking hungry you must be,” drag-
ging Roddy away as though fearing he had never
fed since he left her.
Peregrine remained by the fire, warming his hands
in silence. There it was. Sons only returning in
order to go away again and be killed. He looked at
stocky, blue-eyed Jerry steadily consuming cakes and
tea just as though he wouldn’t be the next if this
appalling war kept on. If I could only send him down
to Canterbury, he thought. But a boy of fifteen
couldn’t be trusted. I must wait, decided Peregrine,
who never trusted anybody and detested waiting.
AFTER Tiffany had gone to bed Roddy came as in
the old days to sit on the foot of it. But they
were man and woman now, each with their deep
knowledge, and it was not until the candle went out
that Tiffany laid her cheek to his and they really
began to talk. Roddy understood. He was not, he
felt dryly, the ethereal fool he had been. But he was
intensely distressed, though trying to hide it for the
sake of dear Tiffy, all tears and laughter.
“You must marry him now, Tiffy. Papa wouldn’t
prevent it now.”
“He would, Roddy. Do you think papa could
change —except to grow harder? You know what he
feels about the submission of children, especially
females,” said Tiffany, all bubbling with the relief
of telling everything to her own Roddy.
. “I think he should be told, dear.”
“Oh, my poor boy, how sadly you have for-
gotten papa. He would spurn me from the door in
his best manner. Can’t you see him doing it? He
would forbid my name to be mentioned as he did
with you. That wouldn’t help anybody and . . . and
he could hurt Dick very much, I fear,” whispered
Tiffany.
I’d cheerfully help him there, thought Roddy.
This fellow . . . this Sackville whom he’d never seen
. . . he had dared ... he had been in this little room.
And Tiffy, her eyes and heart still holden by her love,
had no regrets.
“He must marry you,” Roddy said.
“Silly! I told you how he wanted to, but papa
. . . oh, when one isn’t old enough and he might be
killed what can one do?” cried Tiffany, beginning
to tremble.
These laws! thought Roddy. Made by old folk
who have forgot their youth. But they had saved
him. He would have married Eriti, and he so seldom
thought of her now. He said slowly :
“Mamma couldn’t do anything, the poor little
dear. I think I’ll go out and talk to Aunt Darien,
Tiffy.” This business needs a woman’s wit, he
thought, very conscious of tha bungling ways of men.
“Then tell her,” said Tiffany (and he knew how
she was sitting up very straight in the darkness with
her glowing eyes and cheeks), “that what I have done
is my own affair. I am myself, and I have the right
to my own life. It’s not for papa to make my life.
It’s for me.”
Roddy thought of that little weary voice of long
ago, coming so valiantly out of the dark of this same
attic. We are us, now Roddy. Papa can’t touch that.
Poor, proud, hot-hearted Tiffy, a very Lovel, refusing
to be coerced, though the heavens fell on her. Roddy
kissed her tenderly.
“I’ll go to Aunt Darien to-morrow. Now you
must sleep, dear. It’ll be all right,” he promised.
NO way of making it right that he could see, but
Darien might. Nothing she liked better than tilt-
ing at the impossible, he thought, finding her alone
in the dim stable next day, feeding an early lamb from
a bottle. And certainly with her short skirts and that
red springing hair she looked capable of tackling any-
thing. No languishing beauty now ; but she could
still move a man. She moved Roddy, watching her
with anxious eyes as she sat on the corn-bin, swing-
ing her heavy boots, pinching her full, red lip in the
funny way she had. A quite inexplicable fascinating
lady, this Darien.
“Of course Tiffy’s been a hopeless fool,” she
remarked when Roddy had finished. “But she’s quite
right about Peregrine playing the heavy father. That’s
part of his religion. I never did trust Dick Sackville,”
she added, conveniently forgetting her part in this.
“I’ve thought 1 could go down ... a duel . . .
or he might be killed by now.”
“Dick won’t be killed. His sort never are. Well,
she ought to be married or Hew will come back with
a nice little wound, and Peregrine will try to fix up
that business. The stiff, black rig!” said Darien, re-
gretting that she had never found time to make the
wax-figure full of pins. “Does Tiffy know where
Sackville is now, Rod?”
“Waikato. Road-making in the Rotorua district
when she last heard.”
“That was a week ago. I sent the letter inside
a vegetable-marrow. I’ve always wanted to go to
Rotorua—the stinking place! A settler down there is
said to have the finest Lincoln sheep ... I don’t see
why she shouldn’t be married in Rotorua, Rod.
People do all kinds of things in war-time, and the
Lovel name wouldn’t be known there as it is here.”*
“Impossible to get her to Rotorua,” said Roddy
shortly. There was Darien off on wild-goose chases
again, and the heavy ammonia-scent of the stable was
so tiring, and he was so sick at heart.
“If things won’t happen one can generally make
’em,” said Darien, slipping off the corn bin. “Go and
tell Lucilla we’re wanting tea, will you? I’ve got to
think this out.”
She kissed Roddy affectonately when he rode
away. A charming fellow, and it was nice to kiss a
man again. Roddy was not the simpleton he had
been. Learned a bit on the goldfields, she’d go bail.
“Don’t fret, Rod. I think I see my way,” she whis-
pered to herself, Lucilla being always all ears. Now,
if. Nick Flower is still in town, she. thought, trudging
back cheerfully to the lambs and calves. Lord, what
a temper His Omnipotence would be in if only she
could get Tiffy safely married.
IV.
TWUCKLAND was as full of mud as the bush, and
r| most shocking noisy. Everywhere in the torn-up
* " streets great bullocks and horses snorted with
flaring nostrils, and fell on their knees, and were
thrashed and cursed up ‘again to drag the heavy
wagons. Everywhere men surged—brown, muscular
youths in the blue Volunteer shirts, tall Highland
crofters from the Waipu with the years of their wan-
derings in their keen blue eyes, sturdy farmers from
the near-by districts, companies trying to keep step
in the ruts, marching down to the little wharf, march-
ing off up the Khyber-road . . .
No women in the streets now but those who
belonged there . . . who would follow the men. Darien
chuckled, thrusting through them in her short skirts,
her old hat. If Nick Flower had the pull she expected,
Darien and Tiffany- would also follow the men.
Nick Flower, it appeared, had plenty of pull if
he chose to exert it. He took Darien into a private
room at the Crown tavern and locked the door, re-
garding her with interested amusement. Darien was
going beyond even his predictions for her. He had
heard from O’Reilly how she made them pay through
the nose for John’s Clydesdales.
“Where’s your fan, Darien? It would go well
with that rig.”
“I don’t care for men
now unless they can be use-
ful,” said Darien, pulling
off the old hat and shaking-
the rain out of her curls.
“You never did,” he
said. This Darien, so full
of surprises, pink and fra-
grant as a rose in her wet,
shabby garments. “So. you
imagine that I can be use-
ful, I suppose, since you’ve
done me the honor?”
“You’ve always taught
me to bring you my
trouble s,” said Darien,
launching frankly into her
story, while he leaned back
with folded arms, watching
her. At last he said:
“What do you want out
of it? Don’t pretend you
care about your niece.”
Darien explained about
the Lincoln sheep. “I’ve
wanted them so long,” she
said.
“I used to think I un-
derstood wo m e n,” said
Flower, knitting his heavy fair brows. “Now . . .
You had all Auckland at your feet until you put on
those boots,” he added, looking at them in disgust.
“I’ll have them there again when I want them.
I’m tired of men now. I’m liking sheep better.”
“May I flatter myself that you consider me a
sheep?”
“You never gave me the chance to be tired of
you,” said Darien simply.
He made a quick movement, then sat back think-
ing.
“Why should I help you?” he asked presently.
“I don’t know,” said Darien. “I’ve only got
twenty pounds.”
“For you,” she thought. Calthorpe’s old skinflint
mother had sent a bare two hundred through a
solicitor, and she must have those Lincolns. He
laughed.
“Put everything into pounds, shillings and pence,
don’t you? Well ... I could do it. I’m buying horses
in the midlands in places the Government can’t reach,
but I won’t be in the Waikato for a couple of months,
I could take you both down. You’d have to wear
male dress . . . and I hope it will become you better
than those things.”
“We’ll look vastly charming, I assure you. What
about a parson?”
“I expect I can find one if you can bring the
parties together. Make your arrangements and I can
take you down in September—if you still want to go.”
“Of course we will,” cried Darien, jumping up.
This was adventure. This was making things happen
that wouldn’t. And perhaps she could get Flower
to buy her the Lincolns. I haven’t lost my seduction,
she thought, tramping gleefully away.
From the window Flower watched her walking
like an indifferent queen among the men. Lord, what
a wife she’d make! He sighed, then laughed and sat
a few minutes thinking before he went back to his
office. So much ... so very much power in his
hands now.
IN Auckland harbor the ships were loading and
unloading all night long, and in the early mornings
women heard the tramp of little companies marching
away to war, and ran out like faint colored flower-
bells in their crinolines to wave ’kerchiefs from garden
gates, to stand clustered at street corners.
Roddy went with the Volunteers one evening,
smiling at mamma and Tiffy as he marched by.
Tramp-tramp, and the flickering lantern-light on
the strong young faces, the blur of uniforms. Young
Darcie’s mother was sobbing, clutching at Tiffany’s
hand. But Tiffany, who had not watched Dick go,
felt him going now with Roddy. All that she most
dearly loved marching off into the dark with the
clank of swords, the tuck of a single drum, leaving
Tiffany only a shivering shell behind.
“Thank you, my dear,” said Mrs. Darcie (so the
shivering shell must have been doing something). “You
are very kind. But a mother’s heart . . . you young
girls cannot understand.”
Sally walked home in silence beside Mr. Lovel.
Roddy was gone. Brian had long been gone. Tif-
fany’s heart was gone (one knew that, though not
knowing who had taken it). Jermyn was gone . . .
“Pray keep step, my dear,” said Mr. Lovel
crossly. None but Sally was ever able to keep any
kind of steps with Mr. Lovel, and it appeared that
she didn’t do it very well.
Later, Peregrine walked down wiVh Corny into
Commercial Bay. The Choosers of the Slain were
taking all his sons, all the sons of other men, leaving
only middle-age to guard the town. Pigs, poultry and
goats ran between his disconsolate legs in a gloom
that seemed the greater for the few flaring lights out-
side butchers’ shops and taverns.
“Dunedin has gas now and we are still in the
dark ages. Damn these brutes,” said Corny, falling
over a goat and hailing a passing Maori policeman.
“Why the devil don’t you pound these animals, Wiri?”
“Be Kapitanis,” exclaimed Wiri, going on with a
grin.
“By heaven,” burst out Corny, “that’s always
the tale. Everything belongs to the military, who can
do what they damn well choose. The town belongs
to them. We”
“It will probably belong to the Maoris presently,”
said Peregrine. If every bereft father felt as he felt
to-night they wouldn’t put up much of a fight. Such
splendid sons, Fate would not spare them, thought
Peregrine, who had once considered himself in a
position to patronise Fate. A cruel, terrible gamble,
Carts, caked to the axles with mud, creaking slowly in with the wounded
under the soaked blue blankets.
this war, with the Maoris so near and England so far
away. With one Maori in the bush equal to ten regu-
lars, said officers, still adhering to high chokers and
close formation, still unable to defy tradition.
Loyal Tamihana was keeping the Waikato quiet
with difficulty ; but old King Potatau was dead, and
his son useless, and Rewi, most truculent of Waikato
fighting chiefs, had taken his shouting warriors to fight
in Taranaki. So Lovels were doomed, and Jerry
would be the next to go, thought Peregrine, brought
back to the present by tripping over a pig.
V.
DICK SACKVILLE was no letter-writer, and the
short bald scraps that came to Tiffany hurt her a
little, though she treasured them close in a
chamois-skin bag sewn to the inside of her stays. Het
letters he read huddled in his great coat over some
campfire and burned directly after. Tiffany, poor
love, was so recklessly unwise. No letters, these, to
be found on a dead man.
“We have known the real magic never to lose it
again,” she wrote. “Now we know miracles and sit
among the gods, you and I.” How she went up in
the clouds, the fearless thing, making a glorious sacra-
ment of what some day she might give her eyes to
forget . . . most probably would, since it was still
o Continued on page 50.)


In 1917 “the United States entered the World War
which not only rescued but extended the British
Empire”; to-day “the problem of the British Foreign
Office is to repeat the trick and save the Empire from
an even graver crisis. Since 1920 the wheels that will
involve the United States in another war to save the
British Empire have moved ceaselessly and at acceler-
ated speed.”
Mr. Howe declares that “there is no doubt at
all that the very existence of the Empire depends
on the extent to which the United States will co-
operate in its support.” He is cheered, however, to
find even the pro-British New York “Times” sorrow-
fully confessing that “the sentiment of the country
is overwhelmingly isolationist.” Mr. Howe is all for
isolation. He produces a scheme whereby Uncle
Sam’s stores of gold and silver, plus securities held
in other lands, should be used to buy up needed tucker
and other things to keep Unc. going for from three
to five years. Then Unc. could sit pretty while the
rest of the world enjoys the war towards which it is
heading, a war in which, apparently, decrepit J.B.
will get it in the neck, the Empire will crack up, and
when it’s all over there will be U.S.A. standing
supreme, the shrine of civilisation and the wonder
of the earth.
It is an interesting construction, even if it does
seem to represent a too facile and superficial attempt
to simplify the intricacies of international relation-
ships. For it is only necessary to shift Mr. Howe’s
main prop and the whole of his structure collapses.
Decline to accept that John Bull is this doddering old
man that Anglophobists and others for their own
purposes now imagine him to be, and all Mr. Howe
has to say is a waste of breath. Always a deceptive
chap, John Bull—especially to people obsessed with
phobias—and never so strong as when he appears
humble.
Australians in Spain.
Marion L. Nutting, a Melbourne girl who went
to London two or three years ago to follow up a
literary bent, and Nancy Ford-Inman, an English
girl who is remembered in Adelaide and Sydney
journalistic circles, are the collaborating authors of
Spinsters in Spain! (Heath Cranton). Their book
doesn’t touch on the civil war ; it is a record of three
months spent near Malaga in the days when Vaya
con Dios was still the password of a peaceful land.
The style of the book is not altogether attractive.
In the opening chapters the authors have been at
unnecessary pains to communicate their ecstatic
delight at the idea of visiting Spain ; and elsewhere
a determination to convey the holiday spirit has
resulted in a rather forced gaiety. There are descrip-
tive and narrative passages that are simple and effec-
tive.
Some of their best work is in connection with
domestic details. Vegetables were brought to the
gate of their patio in a donkey cart in charge of
“an old fellow with a grey stubble of beard and a
habit of being wrong in his arithmetic in spite of the
aid of the fingers of both hands.” The milk was
brought “by a youth swaying on a donkey’s back
between two huge panniers ; by a succession of re-
treats, advances and shrieks in the disdainful donkey’s
ears he manoeuvres his steed to a position from
where he can ring the bell without dismounting.”
Eggs were sold by children at the gate. “The eggs
are brought indoors to me for inspection—about two,
nestling in the bottom of a tiny wicker basket and
carefully covered with a strawberry leaf. Such pic-
turesqueness nearly makes me weak-minded.”
The Alhambra, Toledo from the air, an excursion
to Seville provide some good material. Here is their
description of a dancer seen at a small theatre:
Her graceful movements implied a thousand untold
things. The effortless, easy tattoo of her castanets was
fantastic. She made them whisper and then rise in a
wild crescendo. She danced three times, her full skirts
swirling to reveal, every now and then, her tiny stamp-
ing feet; feet made to seem smaller than ever by the
width of those cascading flounces. The theatre was a
cheap and tawdry place and she danced against a
background of bedraggled curtains, but she was per-
fection. She could transport you anywhere she desired,
make you forget everything in the pure joy of her grace
and the song of her castanets.
Mr. Bill Locke, an Australian, resident in Spain,
is interesting—especially in view of the foreword’s
assurance that no character in the book is wholly
fictitious. He came to their assistance during a May-
day disturbance.
Murder and More.
Entertainment lighter than that of the really
serious novel yet a long way above that offered by
the pink sugar romance and the straight thriller is
provided by Roy Flannagan in County Court (Heine-
mann ; Angus and Robertson).
The reader has to find out whether Mrs. Fry
murdered her husband for his insurance money—or,
if she didn’t, who did—but there are a lot of good
things by the way. Flannagan’s picture of a Virginian
provincial town, its local identities of high and low
degree, relations between white and colored people—
particularly “high yellows”—is revealing and amusing.
Captain Jinks, an itinerant fiddler and prophet,
and deus ex machina of the yarn, is an unusual
figure, balanced between the real and the faintly
incredible. Homeless, but pampered in some ways,
unbalanced but quick-witted, sleeping on corn-husks
yet occasionally consulted by folk of social promin-
ence, this good-looking, well-read eccentric fiddles his
way from farm to farm, hearing much and saying little.
The enigmatic quality of his character is well sustained.
Doc Lacey, a man of some penetration, says with a
twinkle in his eye that he is only a figment of Julia-
ville’s imagination, but Lawyer Carrington, in a
moment of exasperation, calls him “a tin-can Cas-
anova, the Don Juan of Julia Qounty, a Marc Antony
in overalls.”
The County Court is a focal point of local
interest, more attractive when in session than the
picture theatre. The action centres round the trial,
with scenes inside the court and out. Persons are
followed in their movements to and fro, particularly
during court recess and at night. The population is
much intermarried, the case has historic ramifications
that are gradually revealed, there is more happening
than meets the eye, lynching is in the air, and some
of Mrs. Fry’s male relations are in town, each with a
significant bulge on his hip.
Well-portrayed characters are met. Tilda Merrill,
a young circus rider abandoned by her company
when she fell sick, now living with Molly Sprinkle,
a handsome high-yellow woman who runs the local
clothes-pressing shop and who is ardently sought as
housekeeper by Senator Snyder ; Bochet Carter, fore-
man juror, anxious to convict because he suspects his
own wife of desiring his insurance money, and Judge
Taylor and Colonel Sale, a couple of kindly patriarchs.
Sol Leterman, proprietor of the local tourist
camp, old Buchanan wistfully recalling the days when
he was famed among the well-to-do for his hand-sewn
saddlery, and young widow Bowe, drawn into matri-
mony with Arch Munroe, the attorney for the defence,
while her romantic soul yearns for Captain Jinks,
are all worth meeting.
There is an intensely dramatic scene when Mrs.
Fry’s son takes the stand to testify against her.
County Court has a surprise ending that is not only
effective in itself, but adds something to the human
understanding that informs the book.
A Novelist's Weakness.
Pity of the World, by Elinor Mordaunt (Michael
Joseph ; Robertson and Mullins), tells of pioneering
in Kenya.
In an injudicious foreword the author says she
has “used” Kenya for a background just as she has
previously “used” America, Mauritius, England and
Australia. There was no plague of locusts at the tune
indicated in the story, nor is maize grown m the
district in which she had made it grow. I have been
purposely inexact, for I do not know enough about
Kenya to write of it in any other form than that
of fiction.” ,
There is plenty of evidence in Mrs. Mordaunt s
stories that she aspires to rank as a serious novelist, yet.
she implicitly disparages her medium before setting
to work. Her novels belong with those of a fairly
large group of writers of literary pretension who bring
style, craftsmanship and some skill in characterisation
to bear and yet turn off work of small interest. In
this case the reason is displayed as prominently as an
auctioneer’s sale flag. It is the author s lack of real
respect for her job ; an attitude of mind that proceeds
from the comparatively unimportant falsification of
background to the really important falsification of
the values of life.
Pity of the World tells how an English aristocrat
failed to live up to a thoroughbred’s traditional ability
to stay a hard course and how the burden of difficult
years fell upon his chorus-girl wife and small daughter.
It is an excellent theme and the story is well written,
except that beneath its admirable surface the author
is continually forcing life to conform to her idea of
correct fictional procedure. The background, para-
doxically, is interesting and convincing.
Horses in Russia.
Peter Shiraeff s Taglioni’s Grandson (Putnam ;
translated by Alfred Fremantle) is about horses that
are surrounded with a glamor and a ritual not unlike
the divinity that hedges the ballet.
The background of Taglioni’s Grandson is im-
mense and shadowy, Russia at war and in the revolu-
tion. Against it the human characters move in a loose
pattern, combining, breaking, reassembling, with life
in Moscow centred round the Hippodrome, life on a
great feudal estate, life in a “liberated” village.
Rambling conversations, broken incidents, ran-
dom events coalesce into a second living background.
In the foreground is the continuous story of the
horses, especially of Flattery, the beautiful grey mare
of the pure Orloff breed who was the pride and hope
of her owner and trainer. Her career as a trotter was
abruptly cut short when the revolution broke out. The
estate of her owner, Bourmin, was sacked and the
horses commandeered. Flattery was put to dragging
heavy loads on starvation rations until utterly worn
out. She was abandoned by the roadside and a
peasant’s stallion was commandeered in her place.
The peasant, Nikita, took Flattery home and
nursed her back to strength. The vet. who tended
her recognised her as the once famous mare. The
story of her return to life, of her place in the peasant
home, of the love and pride that came to centre about
her is like the return of spring after a bleak winter.
It is told with simplicity unflawed by sentimentality.
Flattery never returned to the trotting ring; she
ploughed and carried loads, and famine at last broke
through the care that guarded her. She died of
starvation ; but her foal, Taglioni’s Grandson, survived
to triumph..
There is a latent symbolism in the story. The
Orloff breed of horses was traditionally Russian, one
of the best and most highly specialised products of
Old Russia. Its rival, bitterly resented by the true
devotees, was an imported American strain whose most
famous product was Taglioni. The American strain
stands for the new Russia, and in Flattery’s foal the
two strains meet and produce a new perfection. Life
goes on and readjusts itself, what is good and vita!
in the old survives and enriches the new. Life does
not stop for politics. The racing ring is the image of
life, but this remains a poetic undertone and never
clouds the clarity of the story. Every detail is shown
in sharp definition. “When they came out from the
lane at the village end, with its one-eyed cottages
squinting at the bald hillock, the whole station stood
out as plain as the pattern on a saucer.”
FOURTH YEAR’S ENTRIES FOR THE S.H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Following are the titles of MSS. and pen-names of authors competing for the fourth (1938) year’s award of the Prize:—
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
Again Shall Elia Smile Vincent Square
All That Glisters J. Todd
Amnesia Edan Mae
And the River Rolls On Birrong
Australian Reminiscences 4BC
Big Fella Master Big Fella Master
Black Heritage Gemini
Blue Metal Aries
Blue Mountain Interlude Leura
Blue Skies Over Willoughby .. Charles Broome
Boiling Point Barrington West
Boonjie P.F.M.
Boy He Was, The Nelligang
Breathes a Man Tam
Broadcloth and Silk King Billy
Broad Shoulders Therese
Butter Side Up Stolen Hours
Cafe Noir Cayenne
Call, of Fortune, The Cadmus
Caprice in Gippsland Doigtdevin
Career Woman Romanticist
Cattle Pads Anthony
Changing Tide, The .. Reginald William John
Colonel Ilfracombe Batson
Convicts 37 and 59 Portmac
Crosby of the Bend, A L. Colborn
Dale Freyar IVfargaret Cuming
Dearest Mary Maude Valary
Deep Shallows Harrow
Deserters, The C.W.P.
Discovery Ulysses
Each New Thing Everest
Earth and the Evening Star, The Anne Sheridan
Elite of Karoola, The Lavender
Ellison Findley Hampton Corbett
Emancipation Falcon
Fate of the Hampton Plot .... John Boyling
Fickle Jade, The Hannay
Firestick Kookaburra
Flames That Purify or Destroy ... M. Aryann
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
Flowering Seed, The No. 5
For the Term of Five Years
Westwood Q. James
Foray on Freeling Frithiof
Forgotten Generation Comigues
From Coronet to Cowherd .. John David Swift.
From Him That Hath Not Paracelsus
Gadarene, The Ennismore
Gentleman Once Australind
Glimpse of Sunset, A Currungoramblah
Golden Boomerang, The Gold Digger
Great North Road. The Janannie
Green Book Keltoi
Her Husband Onlooker
Hidden Truth, The Edward Golding
High-Light and Shadow Linnie
House That Mary Built, The ... John Francis
If We Had Dukes Barney Higgins
In My Father’s House J.A.L.
Iron Pots and Silver Churns X. Lagg
It Doesn’t Often Happen Penanpencil
Joanhill Estate F.M.
Joseph the Jew R. Maitland
Kaditcha Bora
Kingdom in the Valley Touch-and-Go
Lady Columbus Ulysses
Lalkalooma Arden Arliss
Lance Perry M.S.
Lead Light Wilma Ison
Little Stone Axe, The Robin Lacely
Little World Jay Bee
Loosened Sackcloth Victoria
Mac Queen Pioneer
Making of a Man, The M.M.
Mary Bland’s Decision Telopea
Master Moonshiner, The Salguod
Men Must Work Fitzboodle
Michael Kildare Clyde Murray
Microcosm —Number 7 Atlas
Million Eyes, A No. 18
* Denotes no sealed envelope containing name
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
Millions and Mischief David Anthony
Misadventures of an Altruist John Ling
Misfire E.R.
Misjudged B.Sc.
Missing the Tide S. E. Nex
Mission of Mogum Anibur
Morale Mascot
Murder Farm Twin Symbols
Not for Snobs Narcissus
Not Wanted Id Est
Oh ! The Pity of It Yanyabbie
Once More the Autumn Thursday
Out of the Dross Mary Mangan
Out of the Nest K. Flemmerson
Pariah Parson, The Dievy
Pastoral Pursuit Joe Hansen
Pattern for a Scandal Leo Julian
Pennies and Ha’pennies Haughton
Peter’s Hills C.W.P.
Platypus, The Broomby
Power and the Glory, The . . Percy Vere Long
Prescott Imps, The Costerton
Puzzle of Podmore, The Ouvrier
Ravaged Inheritance John Bulkeley
Records of Mr. Lesby, The Cosmos
Red Alwyn Jaker Bon
Red Johnny of the Plains ... Bush i elegraph
Riches Take Wings Jonathan Leigh
Road Without End Michael Forrest
Robinson Son of Robin
Rose Adamson Mallee Born
Ruler from the Shadows, The .. Michael Kurn
Scientist’s Loving Cup, A . *Y eni
Serpent Saith, The Constance Mary
Shapers of Destinies b !P° ,r
Shopgirl - R Penrose
Sighing She-oaks E , B - Pe ? r fjf£
Silver Penny, The Christine Leith
Silver Tree, The E ‘? u^s
and ’address of author received with entry.
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
Snipe’s Circus, The John Charles
Soiled Pinions Clarence Calabash
Son of Gerald Raennik
Soul Mate Gironde
Southern Crucible, The Embassy
Sparks and Scintillations Don Southoz
Stars for Sixpence Antares
Thirty-six Victims, The Batson
Three-cornered Island Luwala
Thursday’s Child Has Far to Go .. Quasimodo
Toll Gates of Destiny, The Lucas
Tower in the Sky Yggdrasil
Town and Country Razor Ribs
Travelling Builders A. Hodman
Treadmill, The Henry Martin, M.D.
Trespass The Midnight Sun
Tropic Gold Redlight
True Australian Story, A J. Bird
Twist Gabrielle
Unofficial Diplomats, The Woogawoo
We Take a Farm Whit
Whims of Fate Aivlys
White God of the Brown Kingdom, The
Ti Kouka
White Quadroon, The N. W. Monsoon
Whither ? Archer
Winds in the Trees Hurricane
Without Conflict Catherine de Guidera
Worthlings Hubert Donovan
Years Between, The Brolga
Years of Yesterday, The The Pagan
Yellow Magic P. A. McFadden
Yesterday Cuttaburra
Young Pretender, The Cyril
Yours Is the Earth J.B.
* Children of the Forest Louis Sangster
* Lost and Found Rosa Newton
* Lost City, The Anon
* Patricia Graham A.G.B.
* Purple Straw E. Wheeler


X .V.- V . *•>
iliiiiii|«giiiiiilli
: iplllll
ligg«#;p | .'
wn
liiiliiifpiiillii
111
"liiilllllil
■>”. 'x
| giilij Mil | gg||
||| §|||p |»pps|g|
|l|l v ■ : ■"■: llfl
' Til*:
ill
lllllllll!
' i i : : : ' jllpigff ;
wMtai
IB ■
OF POPULARITY
- --
HIGH
.
m
I IIIIS
.
$2
wmzmmmm
'Vd
a
H
1
■
4>
AS
C
i i ;
m
m
sm
*
IpJt :
> '
fc «M| r
«*% :;>*
-- V 1
% : ■
I
If'
♦*. Jil ■
;>■ •*
r ri .» '
SSiS
V
IK
■
S 1
Si :
mu
■L v ■
••• >l:^
■
I B
-V;.::
SB
i
*
I
M
IK
■
-
BH
m
mm
ll®
■ ■
>; :
■ I
m
m
n
m
m
jm
m
Mi
Hi
■
tU
- N«
8i i
..
H
■
• -
. . ,>c " w ' > ""* 5
. ~ .. :
■■' 'V
I - ::JV*,., I.'
/ *?"
■r:~
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents: VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND —Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Daigety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA F
fxyofu COTI
P n Pfv I d _ Hobapt.
n&ii isp* '
.V- • ' W * V


mm&m
p* j
• .........4i
r - M
■ ■// ■ ' * 311111
f M
ns
X
■
.
■ i
mm
m
it*
V,-) s
A
n|nK|' miKi
...' : %•: ■
m
J
■ill
¥/
j
Ki:
»a»w* —'s- si .jj«r-!
: •: X..
\
■
■
< J
m
ns
n
■’’ < : r
■■■
xxx'i-Sftx
i 'WS/SOSt
mmm , *■ -a
BR[y . ' mKKm
J#' ••**»•; - .
W x
MHHkI
K*jJH
«pgHl
/*YJ
mm? - * ***** .
K
1
......
■
m
:■ XX
:■•■ X ■'■
m
i
;
*1
a
■
in
n
.
Ml
I- ’;V %
MHMHB
Sgßt Wm mmmfUm
~ -<' X JT ’ * 5 ..
■ .* '■ . . ' ‘ \ -v * •* * \ §
.
■MP
1.-. .«*-.*•
*;|v I
s f ’
J . I
isSi®
*m!
/Mmi
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD


* * ‘'V s * ’ * 1 1 . ... - . . . = „ • '
' , ’ ’
' . " ' " ' <■> • ■: \V
HEAVY GOING ACROSS THE BLACKSOIL PLAINS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Wes i kali a: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. bd.;
3 months 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
WAR FOR BLOCKADE-RUNNERS?
The Chamberlain Government is neutral in the
Spanish civil war. British Laborites and Liberals
and Australian newspapers, Communist blatherskites
and alleged commentators who use the radio are par-
tisan. Nowadays a victory for the Spanish National-
ists is invariably preceded from those quarters by
piercing squeals and insolent demands for interven-
tion of the kind that would bring on a general war.
The latest outbreak —a preliminary to the taking
of Castellon by “Franco’s mercenaries”—was about
the bombing of “British” ships in Red harbors.
Fools and knaves shrieked that the Royal Navy should
bombard Cadiz as a reprisal.
When the clamor had died down a bit a discor-
dant note was heard. It was struck by a former
French Prime Minister, M. Flandin, who said that
“anger at the bombing of pseudo-merchantmen going
to Spain to deliver illicit cargoes” was “hypocritical.”
M. Flandin pronounced this traffic “scandalous”: for-
tunes were being made in it, and it was prolonging
the war and preventing the accommodation with Italy
which France so urgently needs.
About the same time the master of a British
steamer, the Stancroft, was brought to book at Gib-
raltar for having carried war material to Red Spain.
Nine aircraft engines and cases of empty shells which
could be refilled had been found aboard the Stancroft
at Valencia by a party from H.M.S. Devonshire, and
the vessel had been placed under arrest. Evidence
for the prosecution was given by the second mate,
who said he had protested to the skipper, a news-
paper hero ; the defence . was mainly abuse of the
other side, the Non-intervention Committee’s observer
in the Stancroft having been a German captain.
The “Argus,” which subscribes to the Independent
Cable Service, published details of the Stancroft
affair. Associated Press showed little interest in it.
However, the employee it grandiloquently describes as
its Diplomatic Correspondent mentioned that owners
of British ships trading to Red ports are “collecting
huge freight charges,” and that cabin boys are get-
ting more than Non-intervention Committee observers,
who remain aboard exposed to bombing when crews—
at “treble the ordinary wages and a bonus of £5 a
week” —are safe ashore.
From other quarters comes the information that
many of these “British” ships are British in name
and registration only. Owners and crews are
foreigners, for the most part Greeks and Russians;
and it is a shameful thing that they should be granted
the rights of British citizenship so loosely. Never-
theless, aliens flying the British flag are entitled to
the protection of the Royal Navy up to the three-
mile limit, and that protection they receive. Within
the three-mile limit, as they have been told often
enough, they must protect themselves. Means of
self-defence in the shape of anti-aircraft guns are
available, and “Archies” enough could be bought out
of the profits of the nefarious trade. But the owners
engaged in it, Greeks, Muscovites, “Rock Scorpions”
and British, prefer to squeal, and their cries are taken
up and redoubled, with bluster added, by sympathisers
in Britain and Australia.
Naturally the “News-Chronicle” is leading the
journalistic part of this jazz band. It is a function
for which the “Cronk-News” has qualified by pre-
eminence in provocative lying and readiness to risk
the youth of Britain (except for a small fraction,
ill-armed and untrained, partly because of the dis-
armament policy of these rags and their pet politicians)
in foreign quarrels which do not concern them. But
the Sydney “Morning Herald” comes in now and
again with its League saxophone.
“Quite obviously,” to “Granny,” now fanatically
anti-Italian and anti-German, “the intensified bombing
of British merchant ships in Spanish ports by General
Franco’s German and Italian aeroplanes is deliberately
calculated to provoke British feeling and unsettlement
in British Government policy.” There is not a shred
of evidence that it is anything more than a syste-
matic attempt to stop the old business of blockade-
running by a new method, applied according to
traditional civil-war practice—ruthless in Spain, no
doubt, but implacable even in the civil wars of Eng-
lish-speaking peoples. Neither is there a shred of
evidence of what “Granny” alleges to be the “aim
of Germany and Italy”—“to produce justification for
their own intervention in Spain by goading Britain
and France into abandoning their maintained neutral
attitude and principles.”
These principles have hitherto sat very lightly
on the French, though—doubtless to humor Britain —
M. Blum and his Socialists recently declared for non-
intervention. At all events, Germany and Italy, as
well as Britain and France, are members of the Non-
intervention Committee. Both subscribed to the
British plan for the withdrawal of all foreign soldiers
and airmen from Spain, and agreed to bear their due
shares of the cost It was the Russians who refused
to pay who are holding the plan up. The “Morn-
ing Herald” did not castigate the Russians, and it never
refers to the help given by the Moscow Government to
the Reds in Spain, though fairly precise information
has been collected by publications like the “Saturday
Evening Post.”
“Granny,” blithering again:
It is an unusual experience for the British seaman
to find that neither the diplomatic influence nor the
naval power of his country can avail to protect him
and his ship against deliberate attack and injury by
foreign forces anywhere in the world, even in foreign
ports.
There is nothing unusual about it when the British
seaman—or some scrofulous Levantine masquerading
as such —butts into civil wars. Sixty-two years ago
the editor of a New York paper corresponding to the
Sydney “Morning Herald” wrote the following of the
side that had just lost a civil war:
While they had long afforded the material for a
large and lucrative commerce, they had neither built, nor
owned, nor manned many vessels, They would there-
fore have been able to make no figure at all but for the
facilities afforded them by British, sympathy and British
love of gain, evadi™ »be -oirit, if not the strict letter,
of international maritime law.
Great shipouiiOJiig ......a in Liverpool and Glasgow
wherein members of Parliament were largely interested
were almost constantly engaged in the construction of
strong swift steamships, calculated for corsairs and for
nothing else....
Nassau was the focus of blockade-running The
Fingal, a British-built blockade-runner which had slipped
into Savannah with a valuable cargo of arms, and been
loaded with cotton for her return, found herself unable
to slip out again.... The Charleston blockade-running
succumbed to the terrible missiles of Gillmore.
The paralysis of commerce, the transfer (at a
sacrifice) of hundreds of valuable ships to British
owners (real or simulated) in order that they might be
allowed to keep the seas with impunity... .for years
sickened the hearts of staunch upholders of the Union.
Supplementing the efforts of the blockade-runners,
the “corsairs” sank Union merchantmen wherever they
could. When the war was over the justly-indignant win-
ners claimed enormous damages, and the matter went to
arbitration. The original claim was for “indirect”
as well as “direct” losses, the “unfriendly utterances”
of the Attlees and Noel Bakers of the period being
mentioned, together with “the material assistance
afforded to the Confederates by British traders” and
the resultant prolonging of a costly war. The “in-
direct” count was not pressed ; but Britain was held
responsible for “the depredations of the Alabama,
the Florida and the Shenandoah” (in the last case, “after
she left Melbourne”), and damages were fixed at
15,500,000 dollars in gold. Britain paid, and came out
of a bad business with only that much credit. In a
situation far more dangerous, mad politicians and news-
papers want it to go farther than it did in the ’sixties,
and in a cause equally rotten and hopeless.
Australia's World Outlook.
Canberra has at last issued an account of the Imperial
Conference held a year ago last month. It spreads
over six and a half pages of a 116-page External
Affairs report.
The edition is limited to 730 copies, so few Aus-
tralians can be enlightened thereby. Even those who
may be induced by a W. M. Hughes blurb to tackle
the study will be ill-rewarded. The matter is so vaguely
airy and generalised that it is palpably not a report on
the Imperial Conference at all. Bar an affirmation
of faith in democracy, any country in the world could
paste it up and call it its own. The section, as
summarised:
Members of the British Commonwealth of Nations
are fundamentally in accord as to the essential con-
siderations by which their foreign policy should be
determined. The general aim of their foreign policy is
peace, and they stand for the principle of public law and
order in international affairs. At the same time, they are
determined, in the existing international situation, to
bring their defence forces to a state of efficiency in which
they can maintain the- ccnntv fulfil their inter-
national obligations. They arc prepared to co-operate
with other nation;, in me oostacles which at
present hamper the free flow of international trade.
Finally, while believing themselves in democratic institu-
tions, they consider that diuerences of political creeds
should be no obstacle to friendly relations between
countries, and they express the opinion that the division
of nations into opposing ideological groups would gravely
jeopardise the prospects of international appeasement.
Nobody will believe that applauding such a string
of platitudes was the whole business of the 1937
Imperial Conference. Characteristic of all Lyons
Government foreign-affairs pronouncements, it does
not enlighten, but merely fobs off. Mr. Lyons, on his
own account or on behalf of his Government, has
never yet taken the people of Australia into his con-
fidence on a single foreign-affairs matter.
The truth is that, under this Government, Aus-
tralia has no foreign policy. Australia has been shunted
back 50 years to a colonial outlook, expressed in the
Lyons parrot-cry “Tune-in with Britain” —safe at the
moment, but as applicable when a Mr. Eden has the
run of the Foreign Office.
It would be as platitudinous as the report itself
to assert that the countries constituting the British
Commonwealth of Nations would act in concert in
the event of a war in which Britain or any Empire
country was attacked. In Australia and Maoriland the
effort would be as whole and enthusiastic and the
sacrifice as willing as in 1914.
A snag is that such a war is not envisaged either
by those who continuously harp on the war theme, with
an obbligato of sabre-rattling, or in the report here con-
sidered, with its fluting about peace and its misleading
vagueness in such abstract phrases as “fundamentally
in accord.” The superficial suggestion of that is accord
in the spearpoint sense of one Empire, one people,
one purpose. Tested by the prospect of any other
sort of war whatever, it might well be found that
“fundamentally in accord” is meaningless.
At the moment our fire-eating crusaders hold up
the prospect of a choice of three wars —in China,
Spain and Central Europe. The Imperial Conference
determination “to bring defence forces to a state
of efficiency in which they can maintain their security
and fulfil their international obligations” would not
be violated by accepting the invitation in any of those
quarters. With an Empire that has neighborhood with
every other country in the world “maintaining
security” is a proposal that might be stretched to any
length, apart from the fulfilment of unstated “inter-
national obligations.” Though in none of the quarters
mentioned is there any threat of direct attack on the
body of the British Commonwealth, it would demand
no great proficiency in dialectic to uphold a conten-
tion of threat to “security” in all three.
That is the line insistently taken by our war
crusaders. Where the “security” argument looks thin
they have “international obligations” to fall back on.
It is a wide-open prospect, and, tested by any war that
might be conjured up within its sweep, it is well on
the cards that the “accord” would split as wide.
In this respect Australia is not merely lacking in
leadership from its Government; it is being misled.
It is dangerously misleading to suggest —or even to
allow the impression to persist—that Empire accord
has the same meaning and would produce the same
responses to-day as in 1914. A “security” or “inter-
national-obligations” war in China would interest
Canada little and South Africa not at all. A like war
in Spain—which, of course, would instantly become
a general conflagration—would be even more disas-
trous to “accord.” Even the parrots crying “Tune-in
with Britain” would choke at that. It would cause
religious and other divisions in every country in the
British Commonwealth, and none worse than in Britain
itself. In Australia it would have only the vaguest
interest; if nothing worse happened, it would cer-
tainly not produce 1914 responses. And any war in
Central Europe would be as bad.
South Africa’s Hertzog has definitely stated that
if war broke out in Europe South Africa would im-
mediately declare its neutrality. Viscount Rothermere
believes that “Canada would do the same, and pos-
sibly India also.”
So there would be presented to the world the spectacle
of Britain resorting to force in Europe, with a simul-
taneous declaration of complete neutrality from some
of the most important of the British Dominions. This
is a point of view which British advocates of collective
security should never forget, for their policy might not
only drag Britain into a disastrous war but at the same
time split the British Empire.
Not so much is heard of “collective security”
these days, but it is the same old gang urging us in,
now on Spain’s behalf, now on China’s, with-at present
Czechoslovakia offering the rosiest prospect of all
They lack nothing in publicity for their schemes. One
kind of publicity is considered in a Melbourne Uni-
versity Press publication, Press Radio and World
A ffairs : —
The gravest indictment of the press we can make is
this: That at a time of grave international delicacy the
press, as a whole, did everything to intensify and very
little to moderate public excitement and popular passion;
that the words used were at times warlike, and that if
the situation had been more grave the influence of many
of the newspapers would have been to promote rather
than to avert a war.
That could apply to any one of half a dozen
situations over the past five years. And it could apply
equally to broadcasting by some B-class stations and
to alleged “news” films. It is this unrelieved barrage
battering away at public opinion which makes the
Lyons attitude nothing so merely innocuous as the
admission of mediocrity it is, but a positive and grave
danger to this country. Before the “report” which
Mr. Hughes has the hardihood to commend to
our “close consideration” was issued a writer in Press,
Radio and World Affairs stated:-
Both in Parliament and elsewhere the Government,
throughout 1937, sedulously refrained from giving any
intelligible explanation of the resolutions of the Imperial
Conference.... The permanent policy of Australian Gov-
ernments: “We, the Government, have vital information
which we cannot disclose. It is upon this knowledge
that we make our decisions. You, who are merely
private citizens, have no access to this information. Any
criticism you make of our policy will therefore be
valueless. If, in spite of your ignorance, you persist in
ques:ioning our policy, we can only conclude that you
are disloyal.”
That still holds good now that this alleged
Imperial Conference report is out. In the face of
the wildest press and radio extravagances, the Lyons
Government remains dumb. No leadership on Aus-
tralian world outlook comes from that quarter or can
be expected to come from it. Statements such as this
one issued with Mr. Hughes’s blessing serve only
to fob off. Changing the tense, this finding from the
Melbourne University Press publication applies also:
The Government’s statements confuse rather than
enlighten public opinion on foreign policy, and it is
difficult to believe that they are intended to enlighten.
It is in this political atmosphere that the press and
public must attempt to understand foreign policy; that
responsible government must try to work; that the
people of Australia, uninformed, unquestioning and
acquiescent, must stumble on to meet their future.
Governmentally, at least, Australia is back to
the colonial outlook. This is no service to Australia
and it is none to the Empire. If the Lyons Govern-
ment doubts the existence of Australian national!
feeling—as it evidently does —it should test public
opinion on its colonial-outlook appointment of a
British army officer to the Australian Inspector-
Generalship over the heads of first-class Australian
soldiers. The great disservice of imposing this out-
look on an Australia that does not want it is that
when the inevitable revolt against it occurs it is likely
to be extreme.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Social Security" and Slump.
Mr. Roosevelt’s “business recession” was imme-
diately preceded by the introduction of a “social-
security” scheme very like Mr. Casey’s. Though not,
of course, the main cause of the “recession,” the
“social-security” scheme contributed to it by imposing
fresh burdens on industry at a critical time and giving
thousands of wage-payers that fed-up feeling.
President and Congress are now resting from their
exertions to overcome the “recession” after “record
peace-time appropriations” amounting to 2,531,000,000
pounds Australian, of which the equivalent of
1,138,000,000 pounds Australian has been “earmarked
for recovery and relief.” The Congressional session
lasted 420 days ; during the latter part, Mr. Lewis, the
Labor leader, stated over the air that there were
13,000,000 Americans out of work.
With wheat, wool and base metals down, and
excess of exports over imports £9,000,000 or £10,000,000
sterling short of the overseas interest bill for the
twelvemonth, Mr. Lyons and Mr. Casey are going
on with their “social-security” scheme. Early last week
it seemed likely that the thing would collapse, and
Mr. Casey’s political fortunes with it. In a spasm
of forcible-feebleness, the Government announced
that the bill must be gagged through the House
by Monday evening, and the question whether
doctors would get 24d. a week or more would be
referred to a royal commission—as if that ignoble
and threadbare device could settle it.
In the course of the week members made two
more alterations to the Casey plan. One, designed to
conciliate the hostile lodges, struck life-assurance
societies off the list of administrative agents. This,
considering the proved efficiency and vast experience
of these societies, is merely fatuous. It .shows in a
striking light the poor quality of the thinking done
at Canberra on both sides of the House.
At the end of the week there was a substantial
fall in share prices. It cannot be dissociated from
the spreading belief that the Government, in this
matter, is bringing more trouble on the country,
instead of tackling existing troubles, which are serious
and obvious enough.
Making Negotiation Harder.
If correctly reported, a Japanese Foreign Office
spokesman said last week that the Canberra ban on
export of iron ore from Yampi Sound “violates ouf
vested interests, and Japan must insist on a recon-
sideration of the embargo.” This is startling language,
and it should cause even politicians to realise that
Australia has drifted into a new age in which the old
comfortable security is .gone and methods which
answered 30 years ago will not suffice.
The Consul-General returned to the subject on
the following day. His expressions were more
restrained, but he said his Government “most
strongly desires, and not unreasonably expects, that
the embargo will be abandoned.” He contended that
the “only result of the contemplated measure will be
the accumulation of monopolistic profits by iron and
steel industries in Australia.” That goes beyond the
accepted field and. language of diplomacy. The effect
of an Australian measure on Australian business is
wholly an Australian matter, as the effect of a Japa-
nese measure on Japanese business is wholly a matter
for Japan.
Mr. Wakamatsu was on stronger ground in point-
ing out that development of the Yampi Sound deposits
had been “neglected until Japanese industrialists had
invested their capital in it,” and that there had been
no interference from any quarter—from the West-
ralian Government itself there was nothing but en-
couragement —until “the completion of their strenu-
ous preparatory work was in sight.” The Common-
wealth Government had itself said in August that
there would be no interference, and that Australia had
iron ore enough for export, as well as its own use.
This thrust was unfortunately justified, and in other
respects it is only too true that the Commonwealth
Government can be quoted against itself.
The fact is that a most difficult dispute has arisen,
and it is of the first importance that it should be con-
ducted with good temper, especially as negotiations
for a trade agreement are proceeding "at the same time.
The daily press could help, if only in a negative way,
by ceasing to draw on the English gutter-press for
“information” about the Japanese. On Saturday a
journal which ought to know better let Our Special
Representative mention “the Japanese attempts to
thrust opium on the Chinese, as part of a demoralising
campaign.” The authority quoted was the “Daily
Mirror,” a degenerate rag which exhibits the inferior
mentality and guttersnipe manners which go with the
publication of suggestive photographs.
No Australian who knows anything of the Japa-
nese will believe the “Daily Mirror” slander. There
have been Japanese in Australia for half a century,
and Chinese for a longer period. There has never
been a time when Chinese have been guiltless of
opium-smuggling and -smoking, and over the years
Chinese ruffians have made addicts of many a white
woman. Not even the yellowest of yellow newspapers
has brought such charges against the Japanese.
The High Cast of Canberra.
The Minister for the Interior has supplied Parliament
with his estimate of the cost of Canberra to June 30,
1937. Members who were there for 29 days last year
refer to it with pride as the most beautiful capital in
the world. In proportion to population, it is certainly
the most expensive.
Lands have cost £905,247 ; engineering works,
£3,960,000; buildings and memorials, £4,581,000;
other capital expenditure, £1,172,000; maintenance and
administration, £7,535,764. Receipts to June 30, 1937,
totalled £3,180,000; so that on maintenance and
administration alone the deficit is £4,355,764. The
Government estimates the value of its assets at
£10,000,000.
When the move was made to ’Berra the people
were assured that it would mean more efficient gov-
ernment and more national feeling among members.
Those who believed it have been sadly disillusioned.
The probabilities are that members would be less
provincial-minded and less inclined to scamp their
job if they became a travelling Parliament for a few
years, sitting for a time at, say, Toowoomba, New-
castle. Bendigo, Port Pirie, Launceston and Kalgoorlie.
And why not? They all have gold passes.
Fettering the Banks.
The Lyons Government appointed a Banking Com-
mission because the Labor Opposition had embar-
rassed the Government by incessantly barking at the
“financial institutions.” It is the report which has
now become a source of embarrassment, recommend-
ing as it does the passing of legislation to compel
trading banks to come more under the sway of Com-
monwealth Bank policy.
The people have shown again and again that
they will stand no interference by Labor politicians
in matters of banking. They have given Mr. Lyons
and Mr. Casey no ground for supposing that they
wish them to embark on a programme of semi-
socialisation of banks. In this matter the Govern-
ment has received no mandate whatever. Neverthe-
less a bill is being drafted.
The commission suggested that the Common-
wealth Bank should, with the consent of the Treasurer,
be given power to requisition a percentage of the
deposits of the trading banks. This right could be
used to expand and contract credit at the central
bank’s discretion.
The commission’s, proposals are at best a matter
of theory. One central control with wide powers
might be able to curtail and expand credit to greater
effect than a dozen competing banks ; and one control
of London funds might exercise more definite man-
agement than divided action. But if the changes were
made results might conceivably be worse instead of
better. There is no doubt that the proposals in their
entirety lean ponderously towards increased Govern-
ment control.
The trading banks already keep over £20,000,000
on deposit with the Commonwealth Bank. Already
they have given harmonious co-operation in the
matter of London funds. None of them went broke
during the slump, of which they gave Governments
full (and unheeded) warning. They assist in sub-
underwriting Commonwealth loans, and, though they
are neither all-powerful nor all-seeing, they have
found generally that the public interest is their own.
The Government which has allowed our trade
balance to drift, which has caused repeated friction
with overseas customers and which is everlastingly
on the borrow had better drop this measure, of which
it understands so little. Semi-socialisation of banking,
particularly the requisitioning of deposits, would bring
sudden confusion when the clearest of heads are neces-
sary in facing the foggy outlook now dead ahead
of us.
"Untrained and Unequipped."
Arthur Griffith to The Bulletin:
The Federal executive of the A.L.P. has decreed (so far
as in its power lies) that when our young manhood is called
on to meet an invading army it shall do so quite untrained
and unequipped.
What the youth of Australia has done to merit such a
fate does not seem clear.
The members of the executive seem to have failed to
benefit by the experience of other countries. A French military
expert who has followed the course of the rebellion in Spain
has given it as his opinion that, had the splendid youth of
that country been trained to the use of arms, the Franco
forces would have been wiped out in a month or two.
These misguided individuals imagine that to train a
a young man in athletics and military exercises turns him
into a warmonger. This is plain nonsense. Among my per-
sonal friends are many returned men. Not one of them has
ever expressed any sentiment towards war other than abhor-
rence.
These A.L.P. men fail utterly to realise that the surest
defence of democracy is a trained and armed protectariat as
distinct from professional soldiery.
New Guinea Must Be Defended.
V. B. Pennefather, an Australian who has lived long
in the Mandated Territory, has made a strong plea
that New Guinea should be adequately defended. This
will no doubt shock Geneva, though Geneva should
be used to shocks of this kind, since other mandated
territories —Palestine and Syria are examples—have
been or are armed camps.
The Japanese declared their mandated islands
part of their empire, and thus authorised themselves
to fortify them.
Presumably, if any ill-disposed nation coveted
New Guinea*, the League would expect Aus-
tralians to rush to its defence. Nauru, Mr.
Thorby says, will be defended under a secret plan,
which will no doubt be as effective as Mr. Thorby’s
public plans for the defence of Australia. It is, there-
fore, logical that Australia should be allowed to under-
take such internal preparations in New Guinea as are
necessary for defence.
Also, it must be patent even to Geneva minds
that anybody with designs on Australia might seize
New Guinea as a first move. Such seizure would
give the invader an archipelago with magnificent har-
bors and natural seaplane bases, one of the best oi
which, at Rabaul, would be only 1100 miles from
Townsville.
The mountains which run down to the coast ot
New Guinea and the hills of New Britain form natural
defensive positions from which it would be exceed-
ingly difficult to dislodge an enemy.
New Guinea, the Bismarcks particularly, controls
the main northern approaches to the Australian coast.
No enemy could afford to venture in through the
narrow passages in the Barrier Reef to attack our North,
leaving an armed New Guinea in the rear. Effective
defence of New Guinea might conceivably be the
means of keeping war off Australian soil.
New Guinea is far richer than Arnhem Land
and the Gulf country. Capable of carrying a heavy
tropical population, it is almost empty by Asiatic
standards. The time will come when it can be held
only by making it an integral part of Australia.
The earlier the position is defined the better. No
nation bent on mischief has any more respect for the
League than it has for a corpse. Neither will it have
much respect for the integrity of a territory governed
by a Commonwealth indisposed to make it and its
people safe under the Australian flag.
Not Wanted Now.
In the early years of the Commonwealth rifle clubs
operated under their own control within their States.
In 1913 they became one of the recognised military
institutions, members becoming liable to be called out
for active service in time of war.
On July 1, 1914, there were 1100-odd rifle clubs
with 48,564 members —35,000 rated efficient. This when
compulsory training was in full swing and all enlisted
youngsters were receiving , a certain amount of
musketry-training. The population was then 4,940,000.
When war broke out many riflemen enlisted. It
was reported in 1915 that riflemen “had proved a
valuable means of bringing the infantry regiments to
war strength.” Despite enlistments, club membership
had leapt to 84,543 by the middle of 1915, and the
Defence authorities had thought it worth while, even
in the stress of active war, to build 114 new ranges
to accommodate them.
By March, 1916, 11,576 riflemen had enlisted for
overseas service. Many miniature-rifle clubs had
sprung up, with joint numbers of over 6000. Club
numbers rose to 116,000 in 1916.
On a population basis, there should be a great
increase of rifle-club members over the 48,500 in July,
1914, especially as compulsory training has been sus-
pended since the end of 1929. But the Defence
Department has a new outlook. A few days ago the
Repatriation Minister, Senator Foil, told Genera!
Brand, who commanded the 4th Infantry Brigade on
the Western Front, after having won the D.S.O, for
conspicuous gallantry on Gallipoli—where the value
of sound riflemen was proved—that since July 1, 1937.
12 clubs have been formed in the Commonwealth.
26 clubs have disbanded and six have amalgamated
with neighboring clubs.
General Brand asked whether an amount that
would admit of new clubs being formed would be
provided in the estimates. He was told that the matter
would be considered.
Then Senator Johnson inquired whether West-
ralian rifle clubs had been asked to reduce the number
of members from 6500 to 5805. This was admitted.
The action is necessary to adjust Westralia’s quota
to the total Commonwealth membership of 50,000.
Reduction is being effected over an indefinite period by
not replacing members as they retire through age or
inefficiency.
It is hard to believe that, for the sake of a trifling
expenditure, any Government could be so foolish as
to turn away would-be rifle trainees ii\a country where
open warfare in any invasion would make shots worth
their weight in gold. But the Lyons Government seems
capable of any degree of folly.
In the South African Union Boer-war lessons
have not been forgotten by Hertzog and Smuts. There
all citizens between the ages of 21 and 25 not entered
for training in the active Citizen Force must undergo
four years of Rifle Association training. So the
Union possesses between 130,000 and 140,000 riflemen.
If Australia had even that number it would feel
more comfortable ; and if South Africa’s good example
had been followed, even since 1929, Australia would
have at least half a million young men able to shoot.
The Oppressed Middle Class.
“Lachlan” sticks up for it:
In Canberra’s spate of words on “national” insurance
and pensions the opinion of the scattered section that wifi
pay the most—indirectly, anyway—and receive the least hasn’t
been voiced —it never is in Australia. I refer to the so-called
middle class.
To this class 59 p.c. of direct taxpayers belong. They
have no unions, and —except when they go broke —they get
no benefit from social services. They usually manage to die before
they can qualify for old-age pensions-: by similar ingenuity
they generally scrape through their periods of unemployment
without recourse to Government relief. As a rule, they pay
for their children’s schooling and foot their own medical and
hospital bills. The Great War was hard on them —their
names are thick on every memorial—but their survival value
is great.
Maoriland, also threatened with “social security”’’ has
a middle class even larger, in proportion to population, than
the Australian. It was estimated last year at 80 p ; c. of the number
of ; income-tax payers. At the recent municipal elections
these people had an opportunity of showing what they think
of heavy increases in taxes and in the cost of living.. They
showed it to such purpose that the Labor Government, which
was as keen, on “national” insurance as the Caseys, has lost
some of its enthusiasm. This Government has to face the
electors in a few months. The Caseys’ election is two Years
off—or they think it is.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“T.”: Neville Cardus can write when
he wants to —write so well that I some-
times suspect, when reading his cricket
stuff, that he is taking a rise out of his
public and his brother-scribes. For
example, when “telling the story of
McCabe’s masterpiece, in rhythm of oc-
currence” :
The grand crescendo which crowned it
He held himself calmly, masterfully
standing alone on a solitary rock of sound
technique Now came death and glory,
brilliance wearing the dress of culture.
Claud Duval never took charge of a stage
coach with greater charm of manner. It
was strength without brutality, oppor-
tunism without meanness, assault without
battery, dazzling strokes without rhetoric.
McCabe’s mind controlled the whirlwind.
His shooting stars flashed safely accord-
ing to the ordered law of gravitation. It
was one of the greatest innings seen any-
where at any time in the game’s history.
How tawdry the last sentence
makes all the others seem!
Unhappily, Neville’s public
laps it all up, and most of
his brother-scribes are imitat-
ing him in his flowery or leg-
pulling mood. There is one
misguided wight who will
write that So-and-so played
the gay cavalier; and he
generally applies the idiotic
expression to a flat-footed
stonewaller who gives his
public pains in the neck.
* * *
“Landsman”: Lock’s pic-
torial jest (B. 15/6/’3B) about
the air-pilot who took a nap
may be a gross libel, but it
reminds me of what hap-
pened the first time I took
the air in a passenger ’plane.
The pilot had in front of him about
four square yards of instrument board-
clocks, gauges, altimeters, and gadgets I
couldn’t even guess the use of. What a
mind, I thought, must that cove possess
to keep an eye on all those dials at
once and read their inmost meaning. And
even as I marvelled the pilot slid a
hand to his hip pocket, fished out the
Sydney “Morning Herald,” propped it
up in front of him, where it obscured
most of the dials, and gave himself up to
sober study of the international situation.
* * * *
“D.E.”: The effects of years of doing-
up are beginning to show on the young
female phiz. In all my experience of
Sydney—and it goes back more years
than I care to remember —I have never
seen so many blotchy, even seamed, faces
about. It is palpably the result of inces-
sant application of cosmetics; the worst
cases are those of obviously healthy
lasses, excellent physical types. Old
Mother Nature will stand a lot, but she
must rebel at last against having her deli-
cate skin mechanism clogged with syn-
thetic stuff out of pots. The blemishes
are more noticeable nowadays since the
proportion of girls to men in business is
so large, and increasing so persistently.
During the hour in which offices and
shops pour out their young and not-so-
young, city railway-station crowds are
60 p.c. to 75 p.c. female.
* * * *
“Somus”: The faculty of being able to
wake at any decided-upon time is really
one of the major mysteries of the mind,
and women invariably have it to a greater
degree than men. Writer’s mother could
sit till 11 p.m. to see an elder brother off
on night shift, go to bed, sleep to 3 a.m.,
waken, get up, cook breakfast and see
writer off to a job of delivering a morn-
ing paper. Back to bed and sleep till
6 a.m.; wake, and up for the day. But
not on Sunday mornings, for then there
was neither night-shift nor papers. And
all her family inherited the same faculty.
Writer can wake at any given hour simply
by impressing such necessity on his mind
before going to sleep. But the real mys-
tery is, how does the subconscious mind
know the time? It still works and knows
the hour accurately even when there isn’t
a clock in the camp. Which is more than
the waking mind can do.
* * * *
“P.M.”: “Cauboy’s” youngster who
had met J. C. Williamson (B. 8/6/’3B)
reminds me of the Tommy officer who
had a similar one put over him in France.
He was in charge of a motor-cycle dump,
and when he intercepted a couple of
Diggers loitering around apparently
looking for what they could lift he let
them go on surrendering their passes.
These he brought along to our adjutant,
and asked him if he could locate their
unit for him. “Ah! ” exclaimed the adju-
tant, “you have made an interesting dis-
covery. The officer who signed these
passes was posted killed in battle 40 years
“I'm certainly sighting ’em to-day , Prendergast!"
ago!” The passes were signed: “Daniel
Kelly, Adjutant, Ist Battalion, Glen-
rowan Rangers.”
jH * * *
“Kerys”: Possibly this wasn’t exactly
champerty (B. 26/5/’3B), but it looked
much the same to the Sydney lawyer
who was approached by a suburban
couple and asked to undertake their
case in an involved property claim. Suc-
cess did not look at all certain, and the
man of law delicately inquired if his
would-be clients had any prospect of
paying legal expenses. “Too right we
have,” returned the husband emphati-
cally. “Me and the wife have had a ticket
in nearly every lottery since they started.
We’ve never had a bean back, so we
must be getting pretty near a win by
now.”
* * * *
“Adyar”: That eccentric musician
Cyril Scott, in his revised version of his
book The Influence of Music on History
and Morals (now called Music, Its Secret
Influence Throughout the Ages), reveals
its esoteric source. The material, he
avers, was clairaudiently conveyed to a
Miss Nelsa Chapin by the mahatma
Koot Hoomi, now resident in Shigatse,
Tibet, the seat of the Teshu Lama;
pop. 12. Mr. Hoomi, according to Mr.
Scott, “graduated at Oxford in 1850,” so
he must now be well over 100. The last
clairaudient medium used by Hoomi so
far as my records go was Madame
Blavatsky, who during her sojourn' in
India from . 1879 onwards
transcribed reams of corre-
spondence she received
through the ether from this
very garrulous old mystic.
Madame reproduced his
handwriting ; it isn’t stated if
Miss Chapin attained a simi-
lar degree of identity. The
Hoomi-Chapin-Scott lucubra-
tions, like the Hoomi Blavat-
sky letters, don’t come up to
the high expectations raised
by their source, dealing in
hazy generalities and asser-
tions not capable of proof.
Mahatmas are given to
legpulling, and this looks
like another evidence of
that propensity.
“Tuart”: I read a
piece in the paper
that “if the Aus-
tralian cricketers had
to take the field
without Bradman,
McCabe and
O’Reilly they
v/ould prove
selves the weak-
since 1912” (B.
I am not dis-
assertion; but,
the great
brigade, I
pride that
pensables
fora d-
ranks.
them-
est side
5/5/’3B).
puting the
as one of
hairless
mention with
all three indis-
are qualifying
mission to our
McCabe and
O’Reilly have almost
the necessary creden-
tials now, and, judging
by his latest photographs,
Bradman is fast acquiring
them. Fitzsimmons and Jef-
fries, two of the greatest
boxers of all time, were also
bald. Fitz was that way
before ever he left Sydney.
Jeffries, I believe, claims that
he lost his hair after his first scrap
with Sharkey. They fought under electric
lights, so fierce and hung so low that
the heat got down to the capillary roots
and burnt ’em all up. Still the man
whose roof is likened to billiard balls
and badgers can always think up a good
excuse for his condition. Mine? The
’flu in 1919.
•»*
“Centurion”: Though regimental
badges are as leaves on the strand, there
has never been one distinctive badge or
crest for the British regular army as a
whole. King George has now approved
of a special badge to be used on flags
or otherwise to denote the army’s con-
nection with any public undertaking in
the piping times of peace. It consists
of our old friends the Lion and Crown
of the General Staff superimposed on
two crossed swords. The badge had its
first public airing on flags hoisted on
the Services pavilion at the Glasgow
Exhibition.
* * * *
“Erua”: Touching those sectional
stunts, sneezes or musical items (B.
15/6/’3B), I‘was in a railway carriage
journeying from Rotorua to Auckland
(M.L.), and had as company a dozen
bright young things who elected to make
the time pass by singing “John Brown’s
Body,” dropping the text word by word,
all except the last line, which after a
pantomimic interlude is blared forth
with startling suddenness. They had just
reached the stage when the whole
verse was done in dumb show
when we ran into Hamilton, and
a party of portly politicians invaded
the carriage. They looked tolerantly
on the apparently foolish actions of
the b.y.ts. as we started off, but it was
a shaken political party that suddenly
was informed, in a roar that shook the
windows, that “His soul goes marching
on!” But be it put to their credit that
after a few more lessons they, too, were
informing the scenery of the fate of John
Brown’s body and soul.
* * * *
“Dhas”: Poet-novelist Robin Hyde
has been making headlines in her native
Maoriland. Dropping into China on her
way to London she disappeared into
the war-zone chaperoned only by a
donkey, and the Japanese authorities
organised a search. Next news came
from Chinese in Wellington (M.L.) who
had heard by radio from Hong Kong
that their warriors had been velly
wollied by a Maoriland woman who
perched, herself on a hilltop in the thick
of the Suchow battle. When last heard
of she was meditating in a mission in
Suchow.
*.* * *
“Fiona”: A senior typist who the other
day got a job in our city was delighted
with her luck: the salary was good
and the work congenial. Her satisfaction
was marred when the boss informed her
that the appointment was for three years
only. “I never keep a typist longer than
that,” he explained, “and if she is a
very smart girl I’m inclined to keep her
even a shorter time. You see, I’m a
man who likes-to run my own business,
and I’ve proved that after about three
years a typist insists on running the
business and bossing me in addition. So
nowadays I don’t give her the chance.”
>:: * :!: *
“El V.”: An evening paper has dug
up a Canberra bus-driver, two years away
from his intermediate examination, for
whom the learning of “one African
language has not been sufficient. He
has studied two —Swahili and Zulu—and
Arabic as well.” I’ll buy anybody who
can learn Arabic without contact with
Arabs a couple of new tarbooshes ; but
the evening journal’s hero takes languages
in his stride. “Italian and Portuguese”
—which is about the hardest of the
western European tongues—“followed,”
and he is “now mastering the strokes and
twists of Chinese (Cantonese dialect).”
There aren’t any strokes and twists
peculiar to the Cantonese dialect. Chinese
has the advantage that when you know
your picturegrams you can understand
Chinese literature in general. A simple
matter —pick up 8000 radicals and learn
to recognise them in combination and
you know the elements.
-<? * * *
“S.T.S.”: There is a little-known war
verse of Kipling’s addressed to “Lyde”
—apparently Marie Lloyd. He says can-
didly that personally he had found her
style “o’erblown and overbold” ; but his
dead son had “cherished all thy lays.”
Then came her turn to suffer —and she
carried on bravely:
Never more rampant rose the Hall
At thy audacious line
Than when the news came in from Gaul
Thy son had followed mine.
But did Marie Lloyd lose her son in
France? If not, what famous singer of
“audacious, overblown” lines did?
y,;
“Passage Pilot”: “Bray Rock” is a
little wrong (B. l/6/’3B) in his reference
to the “india-rubber White Death” in
the Barrier Reef film. When W.D. was
being played on the end of a line he was
a sugarbag of sand. When near enough
to the surface to give the audience a thrill
and a shiver, W.D. was a log of wood
with a triangular piece of kerosene tin
nailed on it for a dorsal.
LEST WE FORGET.
Spirit of Cricket, who of old
Wiped out the fierce-flung “bodyline,”
And ’neath whose lawful hand we hold
Dominion’s long-accepted sign,
These Ashes, watch our footsteps yet,
Lest we forget, lest we forget.
At Nottingham the tumult dies
Where, Monday week, upon the start
Of play, it looked a sad capsize
Was coming to our applecart.
A menace that we won’t be let,
1 think, too quickly to forget.
Hard-tried, our trundlers pegged away,
But somehow lacked the guile and fire
They’d been accustomed to display
When skittling out some feeble shire.
A fact within our hats to set,
Lest we forget, lest we forget.
Leave to the tongues that wag so loose
In Parliamentary iron jaws
Such boastings as the gentles use
Whose job it is to frame our laws.
Learn, from those days of toil and sweat,
A lesson foolish to forget.
Forbear to voice too sure a trust
We’re holding all the honor cards
In bats that belt, or balls that bust
Their passage through opposing guards.
And here’s a pious hope towards
Our winning of the toss at Lord’s.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“K.M.”: Vic. Premier Dunstan may
not be much of a hand at dealing with
dissatisfied Parliamentarians like Mc-
Ewen and Tummas Paterson, but he
knows how to mollify political ladies.
Witness his gallant compliment to Mrs.
Brownbill, whose vote is needed to help
keep his C.P. minority in office, and his
castigation of the Caseys—“critics hold-
ing views characteristic of another age
who would disqualify a woman, because
of her sex, from entering the public life
of the country,” in which her “special
knowledge, experience and outlook”
would be invaluable. What lady mem-
ber could help being gratified at that!
Dunstan used a similar line on Mrs
Weber, M.L.A., when that champion
of her sex was demanding feminine
representation on the Housing Commis-
sion. “After winning your seat against
all-comers,” said the courtly corn-coaxer,
“you surely wouldn’t want a woman on
the commission unless her qualifications
were as good as those of anyone else?”
Mrs. Weber, obviously flattered, said she
would leave it to the Premier. Then the
Spring-street Chesterfield appointed a
lady to the commission.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: A fine example of Aus-
tralian boatbuilding is the new boarding-
launch Elkington, built at Brisbane for
the Commonwealth Quarantine Service.
Fifty-two feet overall length, 12ft. beam,
“If your Honor pleases, my wig's at the dry-cleaner's."
“Watch me give this Woo a shock, Charlie."
and 6ft. Bin. moulded depth, she is,
although officially described as a launch,
in reality a small seagoing vessel —as
any craft needs to be which has on
occasion to punch the Pile Light cutting
into Moreton Bay with a stiff nor’-easter
and an ebb tide. Underwater planking
is of spotted gum, above water ash,
decking of beech, wheelhouse and cabin
framing maple and cedar, all grown in
Queensland and specially selected by the
State Forestry people. Even the sheath-
ing copper was produced and manu-
factured in Queensland. The only im-
ported feature, a 120-h.p. Diesel engine,
is designed to give her an easy 10 knots.
* * * *
“Tewantin”: Have also been reading
that account of the Queensland lad and
lassie whose craft capsized on Noosa
River bar with the result that, as “X.T.”
says (B. 8/6/’3B), the pair drifted out
to sea and the girl was eventually
drowned, the exhausted man being saved
with difficulty. When writer knew that
bar well it used to be literally alive with
sharks waiting for the first flow of the
ebb and the fish that came with it. With
his mates he has had half a dozen lines
out on the north side of the river mouth
and caught sharks of all sorts and sizes
as fast as they could be hauled in. How
that pair lasted two miles out to sea
beats me.
* # * *
“Esters”: Australia is interested in a’
London Mansion House decision in a
case in which the English Port Wine
Association prosecuted a wine merchant
under the Merchandise Marks Act.
Fining defendant £lO and £5O costs, the
Lord Mayor pointed out that, under
treaties of many years’ standing, only
Portuguese wines from the Douro could
be sold as “port.” He referred to a
similar prosecution in 1634, when defend-
ant was not only compelled to drink some
of his own vintage, but had the remainder
of the cask poured over him.
* * H= #
“Historikus”: Passports, commonly
thought to be a modern invention, were
mentioned in Magna Charta. A clause
in that venerable document provided that
certain classes of persons might leave the
country, without a passport. Prior to
1215, apparently no one could get out of
good old England without one. At that
time the King himself (provided he
could write) signed the passport, and this
custom continued right up to the time
of Charles 11., during whose reign a
second form of passport came into
operation, signed by the Secretary of
State. Whether you got a royal pass-
port or a mere S. of S.’s ticket depended
on what sort of fellow you were
whether of high or low estate. Those
two forms of passport were in existence
until 1749, since when all passports have
been issued by the Secretary of State.
Passports have existed since Biblical
times. Abraham gave one to Eliezer
when he sent him into Mesopotamia to
search for a wife for Isaac.
# & * %
“Nagheer”: After July 1 postal facili-
ties over a large area in Queensland’s
far north will advance at one bound from
grandfather’s day to complete modernity.
From then, a N.Q. Airways ’plane, oper-
ating under contract with the P.M.G.’s
Dept., will replace the packhorses which
have for many years plodded out with
the mailbags to the widely scattered
homesteads north-eastward of Norman-
ton. It is the first aerial mail service in
Australia to call at places without post-
offices, and, most remarkable feature of
it all, no air surcharge will be made on
mail matter of any description. A letter,
for example, from Broome to Inkerman
station will require no more stampage
for its several thousand miles of air, rail,
and air again than one from Pitt-street
to George street in Sydney.
“S.T.S.”: The very rare flag of
Panama has been flying at Port Adel-
aide. It is a matter of four squares, two
of them with stars in them ; all red, white
and blue. It was on an oil-tanker of
the Balbao S.N.C. which is called for
unknown reasons the China, and has
now gone to Arabian ports for more
fuel for Australia.
* * *
“Taniwha”: A storm in a teacup has
arisen over a well-intentioned bequest by
Lord Bledisloe, who was Governor of
M.L. a few years ago. He acquired
(how, he did not state) a silver candela-
brum bearing a plate that announced it
as a gift to John Robert Godley, founder
of the M.L. province of Canterbury (he
was the Canterbury Association’s first
resident agent) from the grateful colo-
nists. Bledisloe presented it to the Church
of St. Lawrence Jewry, in England, be-
cause of that fane’s association with
Maoriland colonisation. Then uprose
Lord Kilbracken, J. R. Godley’s grand-
son, stating that the candelabrum had
“mysteriously disappeared” from the
abode of his father, who was “never even
approximately in a position of having to
sell his effects.” Further inquiries have
elicited that the piece of plate came to
light last year when a London jeweller
offered it to the Christchurch City
Council for £25, its silver value, but the
council wasn’t interested. That clears up
where Bledisloe got it, but not how it
eloped from the Kilbracken mansion.
* * * *
“Domainorator”: The Sydney School
of Arts Debating Club, now in its 94th
year, is not the home of eloquence it was.
At the moment about three members
are trying valiantly to keep it going
in spite of public apathy. Probably the
club’s most eloquent disciple was G. H.
Reid, who became a member at 15.
Holman was another product of the
club, and, though “Brolly” Hughes was
never an actual member, he came within
its orbit, and used to hold forth there.
* * * *
“Yarker”: That par. re the mishandling
of the allegedly stronger sex by the
weaker (B. 15 /6 / ’3B) recalls a yarn in
a book of medical memories. The quack
was called ’in to attend a very husky
specimen who had evidently been given
a father of a hiding. He was helpless
with stiffness and bruises, but was care-
fully tended by a tearful wife and daugh-
ter. Leaving the tenement, the doctor
asked how it had happened—the family
would.tell him nothing—from a neighbor,
who replied that the wife and daughter
had done it. When he inquired how on
earth the two rather frail women had
handled such a tough he was told that
whenever Dad went on a spree the pair
waited until he fell into a drunken sleep,
sewed him up in his blanket —“ ’is missus
is a packer an’ does it proper”—and then
laid into him with the potstick until they
were exhausted. He must have been a
sportsman, for he bore no malice and
kept off the drink for as much as three
months until he succumbed again.
“CLEANSKIN.”
“Federal Minister Cameron was named and sir-
pended for refusing' to withdraw the, word ‘clean
skin’ used of an Opposition member.”
A “cleanskin” or a “clearskin,”
Such is the term applied
To cattle or to horses
With nothing that endorses
Who owns them on the hide.
Its metaphoric meaning
Would hardly jolt or jar
The average man a copper;
But still the word’s improper
Used of an M.H.R.
Though on his epidermis
No iron in forceful hand
Has burned and pressed and dinted
And definitely printed
A straightout faction brand,
You mustn’t call him “cleanskin,”
It’s taken to denote
Some hint of devious dealings
That lacerates the feelings.
And gets a fellow’s goat.
There’s courtlier ways of styling
A man who isn’t tied
To render service hearty
And full to either party
Or pledged to either side.
11l words like “independent”
No angry note is struck,
But “cleanskin’s” an expression
In legislative session
That justifies “the chuck.”
’Twas vainly he protested
He purposed no offence;
They’d hardly have excused it
If he’d declared he’d used it
In a Pickwickian sense.
So down upon the index
Relentlessly that shows
What terms are reprehensive,
Insulting and offensive
Our bush-bred “cleanskin” goes!
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


M
20M'6
.10 for 9 d
W 1874
For real quality Tobacco...
and for your throat’s sake
—smoke
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
THE CORK TIPPED CIGARETTE
fHilJWia
POLITICAL POINTS
The Melbourne “Herald” group, which
did a lot to make Lyons P.M., went into
ecstasies over his handling of the revolt
against the National Incubus Bill.
The P.M. played his trump card. He
told the C.P. critics that the Government
wou'not be coerced, and told the
U.A.P. Left Wing that Cabinet intended
to move for the guillotine. The collapse
of the crisis was his personal triumph.
People who hold that a House which
had 29 sittings last year should do its
job properly will see no “triumph” in
a muzzy measure being gagged through
an uncomprehending Chamber in order
that a parcel of beaten Senators may
OK. it before June 30. Those for whom
the thing will mean two bites from their
wages—relief tax and insurance contri-
bution —will find other and coarser ex-
pressions for it.
The depression has been harder on
Canada than on any other Dominion, as
witness the fact that the $13,000,000 defi-
cit with which the Ottawa Government
wound up its financial twelvemonth is
hailed as the lowest for eight years. But
there is one Canadian possession which is
to be envied by Australians—the national
veto on mad provincial measures, which
has been exercised again to save the
nation from more Alberta rubbish. This
weapon was not available here when
Lang was performing.
Talk of ousting the septuagenarian
Argyle from the U.A.P. leadership in
Victoria died with the doctor’s return
from Westralia. But there are to be two
deputy leaders: Kent Hughes and some
country member.
John Bull never had to worry about his
defence loan. He asked for £80,000,000
at 3 p.c. actual yield was £3 2s. Bd.
p.c.—and could have got more. Defence
has an appeal which “works” lack.
It is now admitted that the three Com-
monwealth Ministers and the herd of
civil servants who went to London “on
urgent national business” are just killing
time, having nothing to do until John
Bull and Uncle Sam come to an under-
standing—if they ever do. For half the
money wasted in their weeks of idle-
ness the Government could have got a
Privy Council judgment on the High
Court ruling that the inter-State free-
trade section of the Constitution does
not apply to inter-State transport. Isaac
Isaacs urged this course, and the case
might have been stated, and argued by
Menzies himself; but Menzies pooh-
poohed the idea. Meanwhile, what Isaac
Isaacs calls the “barbarism of borderism”
remains.
Helen Simpson, the novelist, is going
to sacrifice some of her earnings with
pen and voice she broadcasts —by
coming out as “Liberal candidate for the
Isle of Wight.” Having popped into
Australia for a week or two, the lady
was “shocked to see the way the Govern-
ment’s policy is alienating the British
colonies,” especially “Canada and Aus-
tralia, who are now looking to the United
States for defence and leadership.” In
respect of Australia, the only thing wrong
about this is that (1) Chamberlain’s policy
is not alienating it; (2) it is not a British
colony ; and (3) it is not looking to the
U.S.A. for defence, leadership or any-
thing else except a less unfavorable trade
balance.
It’s just on a year since Senator Pearce
introduced a bill “to provide for the re-
constitution of the Inter-State Commis-
sion” and proceeded “to define its
powers.” That didn’t take long, for
until the Constitution is amended no
Inter-State Commission can have any
power. Just on a year likewise since
fellow-Senator Johnston sought—unsuc-
cessfully— to restrict appointments to per-
sons under 65. “The important point,”
said Pearce unctuously, “is to get the best
men available.” Now, Pearce being a
defeated Senator, rising 69, the Govern-
ment has decided that he is the best man
available. Pearce concurs.
Tas. Premier Ogilvie and his Treasurer,
Dwyer-Gray, were in Sydney again last
week telling N.S.W. how it should be
run. Ogilvie was fresh from an arbi-
tration case in Melbourne on which he
has been engaged for a month or two,
having accepted a private brief. Of re-
cent years he has had two trips abroad—
certainly as a guest of Britain, but he
didn’t confine his travels to that country
—and, returning on one occasion, he
found his colleagues assembled in Syd-
ney for a Cabinet meeting. It all goes
“A.D. Kay is one of those chosen to wet-nurse the political comeback of Anthony
Eden.” Mr. Lang's new newspaper .
“Here's the chap I was telling you about, Mr. Eden —the man who put me on the
Meat Board. He’s a fair daisy at winning elections."
to show what a humbug is this system
which inflicts on Australia seven Parlia-
ments, seven Governments and seven
Governors when one of each would
suffice.
Melbourne “Age” allows its Sydney
correspondent to say that £5OO a year is
“no more than Mr. Piddington deserves;
indeed it is a great deal less than he
should have.” In N.S.W. a hundred a
year is handed out to magistrates who
gave the State many years’ service for
much less than Piddington was paid
when employed. And it was a struggle to
get sightless Diggers £4 a week.
The Sydney Government could do
something for home-builders without
guaranteeing overdrafts on expensively
constructed dwellings that are going up
in all directions —reduce the taxes with
which it smites them, as they learn all
too soon. Before he takes possession of
his mortgaged villa, the “owner” is stung
with stamp duties which are beyond all
reason. Perhaps the most outrageous is
the one clapped on fire-insurance pre-
miums ; on a house insured for £lOOO
the premium is 18s. and the tax 3s. 4d.
And it is an annual imposition, collected
without abatement when the premium
is renewed.
If the water-supply project is any cri-
terion, Darwin’s defence scheme will be
a whopper. It is proposed to carry water
from Manton Gap, 50 miles away, at a
cost of £2so,ooo—about £l7O per head
of population. For 30 years the town has
been trying to get a grant for a wharf
from which it will be possible to remove
cargo without going through manoeuvres
like those of a major battle.
Another R.A.A.F. machine came down
last week near Richmond (N.S.W.), the
pilot being killed and an aircraftsman
burnt so horribly in the flaming ’plane
that his life was for a time despaired of.
It was a Hawker Demon —one of the type
that figured last year in five R.A.A.F.
crashes, in which four officers were killed
and three injured. As usual, Canberra
has been prolific of assurances that every
possible precaution was taken, and that
the accident was the act of God.
Naturally the report that there was a
young woman in the Avro Anson bomber
which had to descend in a hurry with
Minister Thorby near the Murray
thrilled the flapper press, and the young
woman was soon surrounded by re-
porters. Described as “the attractive
auburn-haired assistant secretary to the
Minister,” she prattled amiably:
“I have flown 10,000 miles, and now I
know what it is when airmen get into a
tough spot.”
In spite of her experience, Miss
hopes soon to fly again in a bomber.
Plain people are of the opinion that
bombers should be reserved for de-
fence work. Australia has stacks of
Ministers and assistant secretaries, but
there are not nearly as many bombers
as there should be.
It is queer to find a Commonwealth
Minister approving of employers being
compelled by State law to deduct local
taxes from the wages of men working
under Commonwealth awards. The High
Court, reversing a decision of a Sydney
magistrate, decided that there was no-
thing in Federal law or in the Common-
wealth Constitution to forbid it; but to
an Australian concerned for the suprem-
acy of the one Parliament that matters
and apprehensive of the slide to provin-
cialism the judgment is matter for regret
rather than rejoicing. Yet McLachlan,
the P.M.G., rejoiced. McLachlan can’t
be an Australian nationalist.
Minister McEwen has abolished the
N.T. Land Board, transferring some of
its “powers” to the Administrator and
reserving the rest for himself. Said
“powers” wouldn’t overburden his office
boy.
De Valera has hitherto been supported
by the little Irish Labor party. It was
against him in the election on which he
decided after reaching an agreement with
Chamberlain, and it lost seats. Propor-
tional representation saved it from being
wiped out altogether, but now that the
Government is in again P.R. may be re-
pealed. Somehow Labor parties thrive
only in Australia, Britain and Maori-
land; in other English-speaking coun-
tries they are negligible or non-existent.
N.S.W. Police Commissioner Mac Kay,
who is on three months’ sick leave, was
a witness in a Sydney libel case last week
and was in the box for parts of two
days. Questioned as to his condition, he
said he would “rather be back at work,”
but he had “complained” that he was
“not feeling robust, and they said I had
to go away.” Cheerful reading for the
taxpayers, especially those who have
been paying three income taxes in the
last month of the financial year.
Queenslanders are marvelling at a road
journey that a racehorse has completed:
Adelaide to Brisbane, 2000 miles. It is
not the length that has got them wonder-
ing, but the fact that the animal traversed
the territories of four Government Rail-
way and Transport Strangulation Depart-
ments without being seized on the King’s
highway for taxes. That sort of thing
happened in N. S. Wales when Mad-
docks was satrap of the roads. The
explanation is that the owner had the
noble steed toted in an improvised float
attached to his own car ; not being a
common carrier, he was tax-free.
Only 41 per cent, of Maoriland’s hope-
lessly inadequate territorial force attended
camp this year. Defence Minister Jones
is offering new blue uniforms to attract
recruits. If this fails, he will have to
think up something else. His Govern-
ment isn’t “definitely and absolutely com-
mitted” against national service.
Chamberlain’s party has won another
by-election easily. The fact wasn’t un-
duly stressed in Australia, Chamberlain-
ite victories having become back-page
stuff in papers that boom Eden and
Churchill.
From Molongloside:
Cameron, the Assistant-Minister of Com-
merce, was suspended for a few hours on Wed-
nesday for refusing to withdraw a racy descrip-
tion of Wilsbn, the member for Wimmera, as a
“cleanskin.” Wilson is a lone provincial
cocky who got in with the Labor vote, and
would be a gone coon if he alienated it. When
divisions are taken, he is generally on the Labor
side. Lyons, obviously feeling his position
keenly, moved for Cameron’s suspension, and
seemed relieved when an impertinent interjec-
tion from Brennan, who nowadays seems more
nark than wit, enabled him to round on that
member. On the following day, he rightly
refused to dismiss a promising Minister for
a rebellion, however unusual', against an absurd
enforcement of the forms of the House.
Cameron explained that he hadn’t meant to be
offensive, and Wilson handsomely said that no
offence would be taken. To reporters, as well
as the public, the incident was a revelation. So
there is a man at Canberra who can say No
regardless of consequences.


BELIEVE IT OR NOT.
“If an angry animal attacks you, stand your ground and stare at it” —Maxim quoted at a beekeepers’ conference and recommended in the case of angry heps.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
POWER DEPENDS ON SPANKING PLUGS
t: <.» Champions
POWER to climb hills. POWER to
cover the ground quickly. POWER to
give your car greater speed with less
effort, less vibration, less expense. Get
POWER the way racing champions
get it... with CHAMPIONS.
Empire product —made in Windsor, Canada
V *
t< 4><a
e££
31
fe
54
fw§
TZ**J
v/»i
y/tv
mwj/Wh
fWjJi
mjjjjjjj
yjjjjjjj
77 J7J 7J 7
JJ7J7JJJ
777 77777
* 7 *77777*
7777/7+
J777/7*i
*777/
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
No man in Australia is watching the
Spanish civil war more closely and will
rejoice more when it is over than Dom
Moreno, of New Norcia (W.A.). Though
he has spent most of his life in Australia,
and has a special love for W.A., he, of
course, is Spanish by birth, and is familiar
with all the countries through which the
armies have passed. Since the Eucharis-
tic Congress at Sydney, 1927, Dom
Moreno has become of international
note as a composer of church music.
New Norcia has a musical tradition;
Bishop Salvado, the founder of the mis-
sion, was an eminent pianist, and when
New Norcia was running out of supplies
he used to ride to Perth and raise the
wind by giving a series of recitals.
Death has claimed W. N. Robertson,
Vice-Chancellor of Queensland Univer-
sity, whose career was an inspiration to
any student. Robertson earned his own
medical course at Edinburgh University,
after having matriculated from Auld
Reekie’s High School, which has given
the British Commonwealth a lot of able
men, including Macquarie, who was there
in a day when Willie Nicol was one
of the ushers —he who, assisted by Bobby
Burns, “brewed his peck of malt.” After
coming to Brisbane Robertson became
a foundation fellow of the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons. He was a senator of
Queensland University, which he helped
to found, from the earliest days, and had
been president of both the Queensland
and Johnsonian clubs. He took an
active part in the campaign to collect
funds for crippled children.
Major-General John Leslie Hardie,
whose promotion from the rank of
brigadier was recently gazetted, would
have a lot to do with the defence of
Sydney if war came to Australia, being
Commander of the First Division and
Commandant of the 2nd District Base in
N. S. Wales. Born in Melbourne, and
educated at Hawthorn College and Mel-
bourne Uni, he has been a professional
soldier most of his life, joining the Aus-
tralian Permanent Forces in 1908. He
had a lot of staff experience before 1914,
Major-General HARDIE.
and collected a D.S.O. in the Great War.
He was Base Commandant at Perth and
Adelaide before coming to Sydney.
Born 71 years ago on Wooltana station,
northern S.A., J. D. McTaggart is one
of the best known nastoralists at the
ol the best-known pastoralists at me
upper end of the State. At the beginning
of the century he bought Nonning station,
90 miles west of Port Augusta, and made
farming history by using traction engines
instead of bullock teams in constructing
big dams. In 1926 Moonarie and last year
Oakden Hills were added to the Mc-
Taggart holdings. Three sons manage the
three stations, and a fourth is learning
about jumbucks on Nonning. A canny
Scot in his business dealings, J. D. Mc-
J. D. McTAGGART.
Taggart, like many of his race, has a
generous streak in his composition. He
wields a clever cue at billiards when the
worries of managing 2500 sq. miles of
sheep country give him temporary respite.
Air-Marshal Sir Edward Ellington, in
Australia to advise the Federal Govern-
ment on air defence, is, as his rank
denotes, one of the big pots of the
R.A.F. A product of Woolwich Mili-
tary Academy, he served through the
Great War with distinction, and since
has been successively a member of the
Air Council, Director-General of Supply
and Research in the Air Ministry, com-
mander of the Air Forces in the Middle
East, India and Iraq respectively, Air-
Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Air De-
fence of Britain, and lastly, Inspector-
General of the R.A.F., in
which capacity he visits
Australia.
Adelaide has lost one
of its leading citizens in
Lance Lewis, at 53, soon
after attending the Pastoral
Association meeting in
Melbourne. Son of a
noted pastoralist and poli-
tician, he early became
manager of the family
firm, Bagot, Shakes and
Lewis, and when it merged
with Goldsbrough Mort
became the Adelaide man-
ager of that co. He was
at the head of the Stock-
owners’ Assn, and of the R.S.A. Distress
Fund, a director of Bagot’s Trustee Co.
and many others, and was for years a
committeeman of S.A. Jockey Club.
Essington Lewis, of the B.H. Proprietary,
is a brother.
G. G. McColl, who died at Camberwell
(Vic.) last week, was a Bendigonian of
the vintage of the late ’fifties, son of
Hugh McColl, an irrigation pioneer and
an early member of the Vic. Leg. Assem-
bly. A brother, J. H. McColl, succeeded
the father in State politics, and was after-
wards a Senator. G.G., who was a legal
agent in the palmy days of Victorian
mining, was in later years well known as
a Melbourne Stock Exchange member.
The press had cause to remember him as
Chief Censor for Victoria after war broke
out.
New president of the Vic. Chamber
of Manufactures is R. F. Sanderson,
known to sheepgrowers nearly as well as
to city business builders. He’s on the
State committee and the Federal Council
of the Australian Society of Breeders of
British Sheep, and claims farming as his
recreation. A Melbourne company direc-
tor, he headed the Commonwealth trade-
ship delegation to the Dutch East Indies
and Straits Settlements in 1933, and two
years later led a similar goodwill-chasing
party to Ceylon, Burma and India. Since
then his advice on Asiatic trade prob-
lems has been available to State and
Federal Governments. Before landing
his most recent presidency, he served on
the Chamber of Manufactures’ council
for 13 years and the executive for seven.
He’s a Melbourne product; born Fitzroy,
1889.
“J. Want” on a Steele Rudd charac-
ter: —
Steele Rudd’s eldest brother, Edward Davis,
has passed out at 73 on his comfortable farm
near Greenmount, Darling Downs, not far
from the site of “our selection.” Steele Rudd’s
Dave, for whom Edward was the prideful
model, has become the archetype of the comic
artist's country gawk; but Steele’s eldest brother,
at the age at which he is depicted on the
fillums and by the cartoonists, wasn’t that at
all. He was, indeed, a fine and consistent
polo-player, and was just beginning to take an
interest in the kirk, for which he was an active
worker for half a century. Had he not suf-
fered from the disadvantage of being the eldest
member of the family, he might easily have
written as well as Steele Rudd, of whom he
was a farming edition in his later years, full
of good yarns about the early days and brim-
ming over with native wit. He leaves two sons
to carry on for the Rudds on the Downs.
Jack Hides, dead in Sydney at 32, was
a fine advertisement for the capacity of
the tropics to breed white men. Born in
JACK HIDES.
Moresby and having spent more than
half his life there, he was slim, athletic
and good-looking, and might have been
taken when in city dress for a young
professional man. In the bush he was
determined, fearless, a born leader of
men and one of the few whites who
could thihk native. His methods were
always pacific, and in an official life
which included several dangerous expedi-
tions. any one of which might have satis-
fied an ordinary man in a generation, he
had few brushes with the savages among
whom his life was almost constantly
spent. He retired from the Papuan ser-
vice a couple of years ago, after the com-
pletion of his epic Strickland-Purari ex-
peditions, went off on a gold-seeking trip
(as the result of which his companion,
Lyall, died) and came to Sydney broken
in health. He wrote several capital books
on his Papuan adventures, and was a
constant advocate of native rights.
The man with the black bag here has
all Adelaide on his visiting list, for Dr.
DR. KENNETH FRY.
Kenneth Fry is the S.A. city’s health
officer. Prince Alfred College and
Adelaide ’Varsity put him on the track
towards drains and epidemics, and after
a term as pathologist at Adelaide hospital
he went to Oxford with a Rhodes scholar-
ship, returning to Australia with a B.Sc.
and a Diploma of Public- Health in
the bag. In 1913 he looked after the
Northern Territory’s health, and from
1914 to 1919 did the same thing for
Diggers, to become, sonorously, “Lieut.-
Col. commanding the 13th Aus. Field
Ambulance and Assistant Director of
Medical Services in the sth Aus.
Division.” Into the bag this time went
a D.S.O. and four “mentions.” Adelaide
has no busier man than Dr. Fry: he is
honorary physician at Adelaide hospital,
lecturer in learned matters at the ’Varsity,
vice-president of the Royal Society and
president of the S.A. Council for Mental
Hygiene.
“T.” remembers:
About 30 years ago a fair-haired, fresh-com-
plexioned young fellow named Lionel Logue
arrived in Perth from Adelaide and set up as
a teacher of elocution and a public reciter.
Flappers pronounced him “loverly,” but learned
to their dismay that there was a Mrs. Logue;
she was a niece of Paris Nesbit, the Adelaide
K.C., and had a full issue of the family good
looks.
Logue was a capable teacher, but not much
of a reciter. A contemporary showman en-
gaged him to beef out some patriotic verses by
way of enhancing the attractions of a film
called “England’s Glory,” or something like
that, and was addicted to expressing his dis-
appointment in the d.c. to anyone who would
listen, especially when the reciter came to one
particular line:
“And there while Alfred baked the cakes
he made Old England’s name.”
Lionel, a conscientious little fellow, did his
best, but the effect was namby-pamby. How-
ever, he had a following in Perth, and made
money enough to go to London and learn all
that the English voice-trainers could teach him.
He invented a method of treating stammerers,
and his work in this direction became known.
One day a tall, shy young man who stuttered
badly arrived at his studio and offered him-
self as a patient. “Yes,” Logue said, “I think
I can help you. What did you say your name
was?” It was the Duke of York.
To-day Logue is riding on the crest of the
wave. The Coronation brought him a seat in
the Abbey and a decoration. Paragraphists
seek him out, and any case of sickness in the
family is mentioned in the cables. Nor has
success spoiled him —he is not that type of
man.


INSURE WITH
The
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
The Progressive Australian
Company -
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, WORKERS’
COMPENSATION, MOTOR CAR, etc.,
Insurances transacted at lowest current rates.
DIRECTORS:
Thomas A. Magney ... Chairman
F. W. Duesbury Sydney Sampson
Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M L.C. William White
HEAD OFFICE:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS
129 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
* ' /"
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
R. A. MANZIE, Gen. Manager


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: When half a dozen of the
lads, including himself, were fined two
quid each for being found on licensed
premises after hours, Long Alec ex-
plained how things had happened. “We’d
been t’ Mick Quilty’s funeral that after-
noon, an’ on the way home decided t’
have a drink or two at the Spreadin’ Gum
t’ pore ole Mick’s mem’ry. We’d already
called at two pubs, an’ the Spreadin'
Gum wus the last we’d strike before
closin’ time. It wus close on six when
we got there, an’ th’ lan’lord, havin’
known Mick himself, joined us in a
rememberin’ spot, an’ didn’t hustle us
’bout it bein’ after closin’ time. We wus
in the middle of our eighth round, an’
Phil Brady wus sayin’ how pore ole Mick
would have liked t’ be ’alf-shot with us,
when a coupla Johns rushes in an’
lumbered us. Y’ know the rest. But it
jist shows yer what sorta blokes there
are about nowadays. Ain’t got no
respeck fer the dead.”
i*c ❖ :'f
“C. 8.”: A few N.Q. blacks at least
have made contact with civilisation with-
out loss of independence. On some
N.Q. tinfields one finds remnants of tribes
who get enough alluvial during the mon-
soonal season to tide themselves over the
rest of the year. There may even be
enough left for a walkabout, per train, to
the Cairns Show. Where alluvial mining
is concerned, Binghi is up to all the tricks
of the trade. He is, besides, rearing a
crop of youngsters who, by their looks,
take kindly to the beef-and-damper diet.
$ * * *
“Nordbo”: “Mind you don’t make
them horses buck,” the old hand warned
Mick when he saddled up on his first
morning at Afton Downs station (Hugh-
enden, n.-w. Q.); “the boss is dead
against it.” But Mick was a hard case,
a good rider, and liked to show off. He
let loose a yell to wake the dead, sunk
the spurs in, tore off his hat and be-
labored the horse’s rump in true cow-
boy style. “How’m I going?” he shouted
on his second round of the yard. “On
the next train, you blankard!” yelled
the manager, coming round the corner,
livid with rage. And it was so.
“Snog”: On our C.Q. station we had
a long-tailed lamb which had staggered
somehow through the dry time. To add
to his trouble, he’d been caught in a
dingo trap and lost one of his front legs
just above the trotter, which forced him
to use a dot-and-carry-one gait. His
devoted mate was a big 2RE bullock,
a piker with sweeping horns a couple of
yards across. A man who tried to get
that bullock away from the lamb had
a job on his hands. It was a prpfitable
mateship for the woolly bloke. The bul-
lock used to knock down scrub for a
feed, and the little fellow would help
himself. If a dog appeared, the lamb
immediately ran under the bullock’s belly
and stood there. It was obvious he’d
been trained by dingoes.
“Salmon Gums”: Giving evidence in
Perth in a case in which the owner of
a prize Jersey cow which had been
served by a straying mongrel bull
claimed that, as the cow had thrown a
calf, it would be useless for breeding pur-
poses, a vet. stated that “telegony,
although believed in by a number of
stockmen, was a false doctrine, and had
not been proved by experiments.” Still,
there’s a weight of evidence to support
the old belief that progeny throw back
to the mother’s previous mate. Writer
remembers a mare that threw a mule
foal to a jack donkey. All her subse-
quent foals, sired by thoroughbred stal-
lions, showed, traces of the donkey.
* ' 3= 3: 3=
“Fisher”: “Fish Foodster” (B. 8/6/’3B)
is oversimplifying a skilled art when he
airily dismisses perch as “preferring a
worm.” The worm perch prefer, when
“It’s no use, Bill —I'll ave to cut the rope an go for 'elp."
they happen to be on that diet, is an
extremely active red wriggler only found
after extensive excavations, and not the
kind hopeful gardener-Waltons encounter
while weeding. Perch mostly exhibit fads
and fancies that would drive a traditional
trout-follower cuckoo. It may be
crickets, May-flies and a dozen other
types of insect, but until the lure is
found by experiment and experience for
a particular spot wetting a line is merely
waste of time. No sooner is the bait
problem solved, as a rule, than another
change of fashion aets the angler back
to taws again.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: Mount Lofty, south of the
Clarence River (N.S.W.), doesn’t owe its
name to height. Two pioneer teamsters
named Freeman and McLennan, carrying
wool across what was then trackless
country from Armidale to Grafton, were
held up at the Mount by flooded streams
and ran out of food. Game was plenti-
ful in the vicinity, but they had no fire-
arms, and the nearest cattle stations were
unreachable. All their own cattle were
required to pull the drays over the rough
and boggy country, in parts of which
they had to cut a way through dense
scrub. As a last resort they cut the ears
and tail off Lofty, the oldest bullock,
and that kept them from starving until
they reached the stream opposite Nym-
boida homestead, where a blackfellow
swam across with a leg of mutton.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: A Rockhampton (Q.)
angler, quietly fishing from a dinghy near
Ross’s Reef, was startled by the near-
by appearance of an elongated sea-appa-
rition which undulated its 12ft. body
along the surface and glared at him from
big black eyes. It was no figment of an
overwrought imagination, but an oarfish
—sometimes called ribbon-fish —of which
specimens exist in most museums. They
grow to 20ft. or more, and are exact
replicas of the popular notion of the
sea-serpent, huge eyes, maned neck, pro-
jecting dorsal fins and all. But they are
quite harmless and very good to eat.
* * * *
“Kerriki”: “Kooragai” (B. 26/5/’3B)
overlooks one of the most interesting
frog transformations when he omits to
mention the tree-frog. Found fairly
widely throughout the bush, this little
fellow only grows to a length of an inch
to an inch and a half. Living in forest
country, it descends from its arboreal,
home only to spawn ; its return to water
is the only occasion in its life history,
after the tadpole stage, in which its am-
phibian origin is manifested. The eggs
are usually found in a flat raft instead
of the frothy arrangement employed by
the general run of frogs. Just when,
where and why the tree-frog found it
more profitable to take to living on land
is hard to fathom.
* * * *
“Flight”: I often wondered how the
crested bell birds in C.Q. got the name,
and however anyone was deluded into
thinking their sharp calls could sound
like a horse-bell. Of course, that ven-
triloquial ability which is credited to the
bellbird is all guff. That muffled call
which might come from anywhere is
common to many birds. I dismissed that
lot and concentrated on the allusion to
the bell-like tones. I derided the notion.
And then, after years of mingling with
the brutes, I’ll be hanged if I wasn’t led
astray when looking for a lost horse!
It isn’t the main call which is like a bell
at all; it’s the couple of liquid notes
at the end, a sort of gasp for his breath
when his wind’s expended—that s the
delusion. Close up to it., it wouldn t
deceive a newchum. But on a still morn-
ing when the ears are strained to hear a
sound like a bell, and when the bird s
up to a mile distant, then it’s likely to
bluff anyone.
* * * *
“Louden”: “Sou’-west” could never
have been far from his own woodheap
if he has seen only one man using a
steel hammer on wedges in the Westralian
bush (B. 26/5/’3B). During five years
spent in s.-w. W.A. I saw hundreds ol
sleeper-cutters at work, and every man
of .them used a hammer. To prevent the
tops of their valuable wedges from being
bashed to pieces they had had them re-
tempered, and the temper drawn from
the heads of the hammers.
>■: ' 3= * *
“Wings”: “Dungeness” (B. 19/5/’3B)
may have struck abos. who made two
kinds of boomerangs, but my experience
has all been with the blacks on the west-
ern side of the continent, and I’ve never
seen the boomerang, war or otherwise,
that wouldn’t return to the thrower it
said thrower wanted it to. As for throw-
ing straight in the face of an advancing
foe, the western abo. used the dowark, or
throwing-stick—round and only slightly
bent, and about 18in. in length, but emi-
nently capable of bashing in a face or
cracking a skull. In a historic case of
the ’seventies, a W.A. squatter pleaded
self-defence in the shooting of a bad
nigger on the grounds that the latter had
thrown a dowark at him. He got away
with it, too.
•** * *
“Bev”: At Wrotham Park on the
Mitchell (Q.) the boss was urgently
called away, so he told two of the men
to go on training the seven horses they
had for the Walsh picnic meeting, and if
they saw anything else they fancied they
could train it, too. He got back to find
they had 52 nags in form ; giving each
horse a hard mile round the track, they
each galloped 26 miles every morning,
and were in fine trim themselves. The
horses had got that way that it took till
dinner-time each day to yard them.
* * * *
“Naturalist”: A bullet through the
heart and ribs won’t, as a rule, stop a
kangaroo or a wallaby dead in its tracks.
This fact is well known to most shooters,
who hesitate at a heart shot in thick
country when the quarry is side on. Have
known one heart-pierced kangaroo to
travel at breakneck speed 150 yards
before it dropped; known another to sit
upright and then drop with a second
bullet through the heart. One large doe
’roo I shot described a 50-yard circle,
and then, sitting, dropped dead before
the second shot was fired. A post-mortem
showed that its heart had been com-
pletely shattered by the .44 bullet low
down through the front of the chest.
Nothing will hop, fly or crawl, however,
with a bullet through the spine or the
brain.
* # * *
“Bev”: Our bullocks are always a bit
touchy the first few days on the road,
and I was placed in the position of hav-
ing to take Bow, the Chow cook, with
us till I could pick up a babbler. The
first morning he was up at sparrow-
sneeze and cooked a first-rate breakfast.
The trouble came when, finding he had
no bell to ring, he picked up two tin
plates and bashed them together half a
dozen times. It took me a week to find
those bullocks—that is, the ones that
weren't crippled and had to be shot.
* * 2jC ❖
“Notaden”: Two specimens of ring-
tailed possum now at the Queensland
Museum have solved a problem dating
back to Captain Cook’s stay at the En-
deavour River (N.Q.) 168 years ago.
Joseph Banks then found ringtailed
possums, but gave only a sketch and a
brief description of them. Although the
name of “ringtail” was given to the
common silver-grey found later in
Queensland and N.S.W., it was a dif-
ferent species, and the original type de-
scribed by Banks was not rediscovered
until July, 1937, near Mt. Spurgeon. A
second specimen collected recently in the
same locality settled the question of iden-
tity. The animal is closely related to
another northern possum, Pseudochiris
herbertensis.
3S * * *
“Ophir”: The fellow who can’t get
away from a snake shouldn’t chase ’em
with crutches, or els? he should take
more water in it. I’ve sampled all breeds
of wrigglers. The fastest I know is the
red mulga snake of the lower Thomson
River (W.Q.). I’ve paced it with a 15ft.
rock python, blacks, browns and brindles.
and I’ve never had to go out of a jog-
trot to get away from any of ’em ; and,
on a test, I’ve never had to exceed that
pace to catch up with one that was try-
ing to get away.
SNOW ON THE RANGE.
Great rounded rocks, like marbles rolled
By boyish gods in careless play,
Are hidden on their hilltops cold
By leaden clouds as dies the day.
The ghosts of primal winters walk:
Disturbed by old wolf-memories,
The watchdog whines. Swift shadows stalk
With stealthy steps the trembling trees.
Two tallow candles in their bright
Brass sticks —from verdigris kept clean
By careful Meg—proclaim the night
Has come. A crack the slabs between
Old Maurice covers ere their chairs
Are set to beef, potatoes, tea,
And crusted pie of winter pears
With thick cream flooded lavishly.
A hoarse voice wakens through the chill
Of fallen night an echoed shout—
'Tis Corrigan of Shooter’s Hill
Caught in the murky gloom without.
He pauses at the door to stamp
His feet upon the step and shake
Of! snow that, melting, might be damp
And mar his brand-new wideawake.
With door relatched, their guest refreshed
Before the back-log, burning red,
T hey sit and talk of things unmeshed
From memory’s net; till time for bed.
A patchwork quilt and blankets ’neath,
In spare-room couched, the guest will snore,
While Meg and Maurice snore beneath
Their ’possum rug and blankets more.
Nor will this sheltered trio hear
Snow-weighted limbs from green trees torn,
The plover’s plaint in paddocks > near,
The distant curlew’s grief forlorn,
The wild dogs wailing on the range,
Where granite boulders mantled stand
And night-long keep their vigil strange
O’er all that white, enchanted land.
VICTORIA.
E.J. BRADY.


“Old-timer”: When me and Piangil
Pete, two callow youths, left Kulkyne
(Vic.) for a holiday in Melbourne the
boss warned us to beware of pushes,
then prevalent. We walked out of
Spencer-street station bang into a brawl
between sailors, civilians and police.
Somebody booted Pete, his right ear
stopped a fist; a sailor fell on me. We
picked ourselves up, staggered back into
the station and sat there till the next
train left for the Mallee. I’ve been in
Melbourne frequently since, but Pete,
in his mid-Murray fastness, still thinks
the place is always like that.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: A marine denizen that is
periodically confronted with the housing
problem is the hermit crab. It has to
shelter its soft body in any empty shell
of suitable size it can find, and the search
is always a perilous adventure. When
it outgrows its shelter it has to look for
bigger lodgings, and as a shell that it
fancies is often occupied by another
crab a fight for mastery begins. In the
battle pieces of legs and bodies are torn
off, these being pounced on by piscine
onlookers. If he is not too weak from
his efforts and escapes the audience the
victor scoffs the vanquished.
* * * *
“Huglow”: An old grey tabby cat on
a S.Q. farm adopted a novel method of
keeping her newly-born kittens warm
while she prowled around for food.
Before the happy event she would collect
about a dozen ripe peaches from the tree
and cover them lightly with straw and
soil, which formed the “nest.” The heat
generated by the fermenting fruit did the
trick.
* * * *
“Marsh”: Fixed stirrup-leathers are on
a par with the “bronco,” that suicidal
stunt of securing stirrup-irons by the use
of a rope beneath the prad’s belly. The
idea is to give the sitter a more secure
foothold than free irons would, but it’s
an open invitation to a broken limb at
least should the horse fall. Once saw a
flash half-caste try the dodge out on a
half-broken colt. The yellow fellow
had lost most of his flashness when we
pulled him free from the fallen prad
with a badly fractured right leg.
* * * *
“Bufo”: The inch-long beetle ambled
purposefully along the sunflecked path.
Three inches away lay what looked like
a cherry-sized lump of particularly
mature grey cheese, its mite population
wriggling over it. The cheese did some-
thing that I’ve never seen cheese, how-
ever lively, do before. It cleared the
intervening distance in one lightning
bound and landed on the beetle. Most
of the mites fell off at the impact to
reveal a squat grey spider with poison
fangs sunk in the soft tissues bordering
its victim’s carapace. It held there till
the struggles ceased, then withdrew the
twin-tubed poison needles, straddled the
quarry and began to suck it dry. Some
of the mites really young hunting
spiders travelling on their mother’s back
after emergence from the white egg-bag
—clustered round the jaws to take their
share ; others ran about seeking for tiny
victims of their own.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Anyone who wishes to
settle the perennial argument around
whether a tree grows from the bottom,
carrying attached objects such as wire
fences up with it, or inversely grows
taller only at the top, should top a speci-
men and from time to time note if the
topped top is gaining in elevation. And
here’s a simple “spotter’s” method of
such measurement. Choose a time of
the day when fairly long shadows are
being cast. Plant a staff in the ground
adjacent to your tree, taking care that
“ Don’t pull in yet —We might fluke another one.”
staff has just the same slant as the tree,
if any. Next measure shadow cast by
staff and also height of staff; then length
of shadow cast by tree. The rest is
simple. If staff stands four feet and casts
a shadow two feet, while the tree shadow
is twenty feet, then the tree, like the staff,
is just twice as tall as the length of its
shadow. This method may bring results
a few inches out, but it is handy even
in the city when a tree about to be felled
is likely to drop on a roof or something.
* * * *
“Uramao”: The gluttonous Maoriland
shag frequently finds itself weighed down
below the Plimsoll line so that it can’t
rise. Its practice then is to keep dis-
gorging until it has acquired the neces-
sary lightness to take to the empyrean.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Men rail at the white-
ant, but really the termite is Nature's
chief reconditioner in a dry land where
the trunks of fallen hardwoods, awaiting
the process of natural decay, might
cumber the soil for a century. I was
reminded of this on viewing the huge
sawdust-dump of an abandoned mill that
had specialised in cutting W.A.
white-gum and tuart. As fine
almost as flour, saturated with
acetic acid, the dump stood a
blot on the landscape, defying
even a blade of rank grass a
footing. Then from below the
termites came. To them it was
probably a banquet far beyond
the range of their antian im-
agination, and they multiplied as
a billion jaws ate and ate. For 10
years they have been at it—and
there is still some of the dump
left. But most of it has been
turned into fertility. Watered
and rolled, the digested sawdust
makes tennis-courts and paths
almost to the hardness of
asphalt. Dug into the prevailing
sand of the district jt makes
loam from which sprout roses,
cabbages anything you will.
Left to itself, preserved in its
own natural acidity, that dump
might have remained an offence
against Nature indefinitely.
* * *
“Johnno”: “Stumpy is a good
dorg,” said Old Dan ; “but ’e’s
got a bad point. ’E’s terrible
jealous. Gotter be first in
everythink or ’e sulks. An’ ’e’s as cunnin'
as a monkey. When the kids took ter
egg-huntin’ when the fowls started layin'
away Stumpy must foller suit. But ’e
got that mad when the kids were findin’
two eggs to 'is one that I ’ad ter tie ’ini
up for a day or two. Then all uv a
sudden it was the other way about. ’E
was findin all the eggs an' the kids none.
’E caught young Fred makin’ a ’en lay
in a nest ’e’d made for ’er in a burnt-out
root. That gave Stumpy an idea, an’ ’e
makes a nest in a big holler log way
down the paddicLr an’ every day ’e’d
muster the layin’ ’ens an’ yard ’em in
the log an’ keep ’em there till they’d
laid. An’ me wonderin’ wot ’e was run-
nin’ the ’ens about for. ’E got that proud
uv hisself that ’e strained ’is back trying
to cock ’is stump an inch higher.”
# # * *
“P.M.”: That bloke in South Gipps-
land whose crop grew 6ft. in a couple
of days and imprisoned the cockatoos
in it (B. 26/ 5/ ’3B) was evidently a new
chum who didn’t know how to work
the land in that district properly. The
correct way to grow oats there is with
a slow-moving tractor and plough and
harrows combined, then, three-quarters
of a mile of cable, behind which comes
the reaper-and-binder. This saves tractor-
fuel, and prevents the crop getting too
big and rank.
* * * *
“Pituri”: German Charlie, sometime
fruit-hawker on the Thofnson (W.Q.),
was well known for his punctuality and
his wild ways. Once, following an
escapade, he returned with his broken
wagonette to the township of Stonehenge,
where Harry Hicken, later a successful
selector, was then the blacksmith. Charlie
“If y ’ ask me, boay, I think it d’ make ’ee bit better lookin’
had promised to be at Bimerah next
day and was determined to keep his
word. “It’s no use, Charlie,” Harry told
the old hawker. “I can’t do the job this
evening, and to have it ready by the
morning I’ll have to work all night.”
Charlie struck a pose. “Hicken,” he
said, “dere iss der vagonette ; here iss
der mans ; and [slapping his pocket] here
vas der money.” Harry worked all night
while Charlie mixed it with the lads of
the village and looked on the beer when
it was brown. The repairs were effected
just as the sun was rising, and the vehicle
was in better trim than Charlie. “Hicken,”
said the old man, looking woebegone and
miserable, “last night I vas say, ‘Here iss
der mans, and here vas der money.’ Dis
morning I say to you: ‘Here iss der
mans; but vhere vas der money? "
* * * *
“King Sound”: Another piscatorial
curiosity that De Rougemont missed is
the monkey-fish of Westralia’s nor’-west,
a fish so advanced that it lives in com-
munities and houses itself. A diver
walking the sea-bed may come on a
school of these little fellows, who im-
mediately scurry into their tiny beehive-
shaped houses and then peer out at the
intruder from the round hole that serves
as an entrance, their multitude of tiny
faces appearing curiously simian-like.
Anywhere from the Ninety Mile Beach
northwards along the coral these mini-
ature villages can be found. The Malays
have it that the fish themselves build
their houses —no one yet has stayed on
the sea-bed long enough to prove it or
the contrary —but most probably the bee-
hives are really coral formations which
the fish adapt to their needs. The fish’s
range of depth, too, is considerable, from
low-tide mark downwards to six and seven
fathoms. Strangely, those found close to
the surface are always larger, sometimes
touching two pounds, and good eating.
These surface-dwellers usually content
themselves with ready-made holes and
crevices in the coral. But they are just
as monkey-like in countenance.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: Is there any tougher animal
than a possum? Chased a ringtail up a
solitary tall sapling, while my mate
waited below. My efforts shook the tree,
and the possum half leaped and half
fell, passing me like a flash, with legs out-
spread for air resistance on a clear 40ft.
drop. It landed belly-first with a “plonk,”
bounded 3ft. into the air, and on second
contact made off so rapidly that my mate
was left gaping.
* * * *
“Lombardena”: Odors, scented or
otherwise, are always comparative. On
the banks of a W.A. creek I have plucked
a tiny flower which, singly, gave a scent
most exquisite, but, when bunched, of
such intensity as to be nauseous. Like-
wise, to the fish-hungry the smell of fry-
ing shark might be appetising, whereas
to a fish-glutted person the odor might be
the opposite—which is why the writer and
his skipper opened the last bottle of beer
(B. 12/5/’3B). The smell mightn’t have
been really bad, but it was upsetting.
Still, there are other sharks. The gummy,
for instance, sells readily in many
markets as Sweet William. Skinned, it
tastes not unlike coarse whiting. More
than once, assisting in a guest-house, I
have panned off grey nurse as snapper,
camouflaged with a very piquant sauce ;
but never tiger-shark or hammerhead.
Then, again, small sharks, like most little
fish, may be sweet, while big sharks cer-
tainly are the reverse. And the tiger that
our Malays dined on was big—much too
big to be hauled aboard alive.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: A manager of a n.-w. Q.
station made a point of taking a look at
the ground near the boundary fences at
regular intervals. The telltale tracks
there showed him that the rider had
made his weekly round. He didn’t know
that Bill, who disliked efficiency sharps,
led a second horse whenever he wanted
a week off.
ADVICE TO THE INNOCENT.
“If anyone offers to sell you the Post Office tower,
I would recommend you not to buy it. .
Cur lewis to a tradesman who said he had oeen
victimised by the “son oj a wealthy squatter.
You should never get narked with the plaus-
ib}e C ock
Who’s wishful to sell you the Post Office clock,
Or an option suggests, for some modest amount,
On the forms that embellish the Archibald
Fount.
If an exquisite sundial you long to acquire
And the one in the Gardens excites your desire,
When the price is agreed on don’t part with
a bob
But make it a cash-on-delivery job.
If the Shakspeare Memorial catches your eye
And some amiable stranger invites you to buy,
Just artlessly ask if he happens to know
Which figure is Falstaff, and which Romeo.
Mild irony’s better than loosing a piece
Of your mind, or than muttering threats of
police. ...
So bear it good-humoredly, keeping in view
That crooks have their living to make, even
as you.
When they furnish the humors that pressmen
report . ■
To lighten the gloom of the Criminal Court,
It is hard to raise true animosity at
These hoary devices for hooking a flat.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
I.tmch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday. 5,45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M4P>Ol
dsf
LUDOWICI LEATHER BELTING
Gives many years of Trouble-free Service
Ludowici Leather Belting of all types gives long
life and absolute dependability even under the
most difficult operating conditions.
Made from Ludowici tanned and matched first-
grade leather, and with all joints and plys water-
proof cemented, every Ludowici Leather Belt is
guaranteed replacement free against defective
workmanship and material. Made and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOM LTD.
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 York Street, Sydney
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
dsf
ds
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd.
Dividends , Nominal
Net 1’ ref. To Re- Re-
Mar. Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves* serves.}
’2B 184,868 15,750 10 p.c. = 93,048 76,070 342,764
’29 207,952 15,750 121 „ „ 116,310 75,892 418,656
Staff fund, £2500 416,156
'3O 187,254 15,750 124 p.c.=116,310 55,194 471,350
’3l 76,768 15,750 6 „ „ 55,828 5,190 476.540
’32 92,137 15,750 71 „ „ 69,786 6,601 483,141
’33 122,439 15,750 9 „ „ 83,743 22,946 506,087
'34 129,602 15,750 9 „ „ 83,743 30,109 536,196
To superannuation fund, £5OOO .. 531,196
’35 175,522 15,750 13 p.c. = 120,962 38,810 570,006
‘36 205,493 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 50,171 620,177
'37 231,199 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 75,877 696,054
’3B 287,628 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 132,306 828,360
t Subject to goodwill, £114,500.
This co.’s shares (there are 175,000 9
p.c. cum. pref. and 930,478 ords., all of
£1 each) are one of the most popular in-
dustrial stocks on the market. That is
because of the high earning power of
the assets (it suggests that in the past, at
any rate, there was more wheat in the
ear than the eye could see), the wide mar-
gin between disclosed net earnings and
divs., the solidness of the financial struc-
ture and the continued expansion of the
business. Also, the co. enjoys almost a
monopoly in some sections of the trade,
thanks to the tariff and technical and
other efficiency, including shrewd and
energetic management. Manufacturing
plants have been set up in all the
Australian States, except Tas., and
at Auckland (M.L.), and they turn
out bottles and jars of all descriptions
(lines on which the business grew up),
cut crystal, pressed and blown glassware,
lighting bowls, units and fixtures, pyrex
ware, sheet and figures, rolled glass and
glass bricks. Other sections, which help
to make the business almost completely
self-contained, are the engineering de-
partment (it produces steel and iron cast-
ings, pilfer-proof bottle-seals, etc.) and
the plastic-ware and corrugated-fibre
container factories, while supplies of feld-
spar are drawn from Westralian deposits
worked by a subsidiary.
The two chief subsidiaries are Austra-
lian Window Glass Pty. (paid capital
£225,000), capable of turning out up to
20,000,000 square feet of sheet glass
annually, and the Crown Crystal Co.,
which meets with keen competition from
German and Czechoslovakian imports,
and which has traded at a small loss for
about the last 10 years. The curtain is
kept drawn over their figures. Still, the
co. picks up more on the roundabouts
than it loses on the swings. Certainly
gross earnings fell from a pre-depression
peak of £432,396 in 1929 to £238,669 in
1931 (slump caught the co. with heavy
stocks), but earnings have bounded along
since, gross for the last term reaching
the record figure of £780,527, up £136,027
for the twelvemonth. Including an un-
specified provision for taxation and de-
preciation, etc., exes, amounted to
£492,899 (up £79,598). The net result
(£287,628, up £56,429) was sufficient to
pay the pref. div. and show a juicy 29.2
p.c. on ord. capital, compared with 23.1,
20.4, 17.1, 12.2, 11.4, 8.2 and 6.5 p.c.
back to 1931. The div. was kept at 15
p.c., making the average over the last
decade 11.4 p.c.
Anticipating extra benefits, the market
lifted its bid for the pound ords. to 98s.
in Oct., 1936. But nothing happened,
and the figure, which has since fluctuated
between 98s. and 84s. 6d., was at 935. last
week-end. The return at 935. is 3.2 p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div. basis, or about half of
l p.c. less than can be had from Govern-
ment securities. The investor who looks
for 4.3 p.c. on his money counts on a
20 p.c. div. or a one-for-three gift issue
and maintenance of the div. at 15 p.c.
In each instance the pref. and ord. divs.
combined would then call for £85,782
less than last year’s declared net profit.
The prefs. at 40s. yield 4.3 p.c., and their
annual requirements were more than 18
times covered by last year’s profit. Visibly
the net tangible cover is £ll Is. prefs.
and 375. lOd. ords.
For many years additions have been
made to fixed assets, paid for out of
earnings and then substantially written
down from the same source, as the fol-
lowing comparison of balance-sheet
figures suggests:
1924. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. £950,695 £1,105,478 £1,105,478
Liabilities . . . . 87,507 390,588* 009,282*
Freeholds . . . . 206,067 217,582 253,849
Machinery & plant 451,364 316,276 326,806
Stocks . . . . 316,225 541,534 621,251
Book debts. . . . 127,901 196,021 206,134
Loans, investments,
etc 18,816 902,389 1,112,198
* Includes “provision for taxation.”
Last year there was an all-round ex-
pansion of the figures. The movements
which catch the eye are an increase
of £209,809 in loans, investments, etc.,
and an addition of £218,694 to the
amount coming to sundry creditors,
which includes an unspecified provision
for taxation. The growth in the more
or less liquid surplus (£1,330,301) was
£80,945, and £46,797 net was added to
the book value of fixed assets.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd.
Land and
Develop- Mainten- Dividend,
March, Sales, etc. merit. ance. Profit. 8 p.c.
1929.. £563,203 £388,789 £156,364 £18,050 £13,668
1930.. 320,249 165,666 135,709 18.874 14,772
1931.. 310,912 173,454 121,637 15,821 15,537
v '
1932.. 285,296 246,101 39,195 15,537
1933.. 314.657 286.198 28,459 15,797
1934.. 153,062 128,754 24,308 15,803
1935.. 211,745 194,402 17,343 15,803
1936.. 284,756 262,561 22,195 15,803
1937.. 230,002 203,972 26,030 15,803
104 p.c.
1938.. 137,687 116,875 20,812 20,741
The activities of this 15-year-old pioneer
of the bond-selling method of financing
forestry ventures are approaching their
normal end, unless, of course, some fresh
forestry or other enterprise is entered
upon. Shareholders have had a run of
steady 8 p.c. divs. from the start, and,
on present indications, can see surplus
assets of over £2 per pound of paid capi-
tal (£197,536). The extra p.c. div. dis-
tributed for the last term, making 10y p.c.
in all, was to help shareholders meet the
taxgatherer’s dejnands in respect of the
1932 gift. In 1932 they became entitled
to some of the planted areas (14,107
acres) as bonus or gift units, thus giving
them a direct interest in the forests in
addition to proprietary rights over profits
from the sale of bonds, etc.
What divs., if any, are likely to be
paid in respect of bonds from the
realisation of forest products the “Wild
Cat” doesn’t know. What it does know
is that early prospectus estimates in this
respect were nothing more than rough
guesses—far too rough to be accepted as
anything like a reliable guide.
At the end of March, 1937, this bond-
selling co. had sold 148,264 bonds, with
an aggregate face value of £4,273,937,
and planted 169,311 acres with insignis
pines. In Dec., 1935, the bondholders
formed a realisation co., N.Z. Forest Pro-
ducts, Ltd., to take possession of the
forests and thus relieve the bond-selling
co. of the unexpired portion of its con-
tracts for maintenance, etc., provided
agreement could be reached concerning
the amount of money, etc., that should
be handed over in this respect. The
bond-selling co. naturally wanted to hand
over the smallest amount it considered
necessary, while the realisation (bond-
holders’) co. wanted the highest amount
it considered reasonable. The gulf was
bridged in Sept, last, when a tentative
(compounding) agreement was reached
and referred to the Bondholders’ Incor-
poration Commission, the authority set
up by the Maoriland Government to
straighten out complications connected
with the forestry-bond business.
Until the commission’s approval is re-
ceived, details of the agreement cannot
be broadcast. However, in January last
the directors said Perpetual would prob-
ably be left with tangible assets aggre-
gating approximately £555,000, made up
of cash £230,000, debtors £190,000 and
shares (4500) in N.Z. Forest Products,
Ltd., £135,000. The lot is subject to
liabilities “not aggregating any consider-
able sum,” and including taxation.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. .. £197,536 £197,536 £197,536
Sundry creditors, etc. .. 139,559' 120,607 97,034
Suspense account. . .. 67,515
Land and buildings .. 25,535 26,594 23,377
Plant, etc 17,381 18,113 16,122
Investments and cash .. 613,757 587,101 583,854
Bondholders’ balances .. 160,235 102,783 23,494
Other book debts . . 87,520 191,973 280,716
Trustees 595,420 595,178 595,178
The suspense account represents the esti-
mated liability to the products co. from
the end of September, when the tentative
agreement was entered into, to balanc-
ing date (March 31). Assets then totalled
£1,552,742 ; so the co. is apparently hand-
ing over cash and other tangibles aggre-
gating approximately a million pounds.
Taking liabilities at the end of Sep-
tember at £97,000, shareholders can see
net tangibles equal to about 465. per
pound of paid capital, and 13s. Bd. of the
465. is represented by shares in the
realisation co. The intention is to return
the whole of the paid capital (£197,536)
in two instalments, after the tentative
compounding agreement is settled.
Perpetual will continue in business, for
some time, at any rate, collecting its own
book debts and outstanding bondholders’
balances for the Products Co. on “a
reasonable commission basis.” Later
shareholders will be called together to
decide the co.’s future. Meanwhile the
directors hope to “continue payment of
an annual dividend as heretofore.”
The market prices the fully-paid pound
shares at 40s. as against 50s. a few
months ago.
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends ~
5 p.c. To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Prefs. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928 77,020 4325 10 p.c. = 60,423 12,272 256,671
1929 77,120 4325 10 „ „ 60,423 12,372 269,043
1930 65,111 4325 10 „ ~ 60,423 363 269,406
1931 39.172 4325 5} „ „ 34,743 103 269,509
1932 39,393 4325 5} ~ „ 34,743 325 269,834
1933 29,204 6 „ „ 29,003 201 270,035
1934 29,214 6£ ~ „ 22,155 7,059 277,094
1935 30,880 8 „ „ 25,780 5,100 282.194
1936 31.295 8§ „ „ 27,795 3,500 285,694
Share premiums, £9751 .. .. 295,445
1937 33,005 9} p.c. = 29,406 3,599 299,044
Share premiums, £17,103 .. .. 316,147
1938 37,091 9f p.c. = 34,911 2,180 318,327
This old-established importer of paper
and printers’ requisites has an able and
careful management, trained in the busi-
ness, a sound financial structure and an
extensive goodwill, of which no account
is taken in the books. For 15 years after
the public became interested in 1915 the
ords. received a steady 10 p.c., sweetened
with £50,000 of bonus scrip and new
issues at par—paid capital more than
doubled during this period. Then slump
brought a sharp contraction in turnover,
and the div. dropped to 5f p.c. for the
two years to the close of accounts in
1932 ; it has since gone up by annual
steps to 9f p.c. for the last term, when
the final was at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a.
Meanwhile, the co. was able to return
£368,484 of capital, reducing the figure
to £322,256 in 1934. Since then turn-
over has expanded so rapidly that the
board issued 53,709 new pound shares
at a premium of 10s. each shortly before
the close of accounts in 1937. The issue
was in the nature of a bonus to share-
holders, because the premium at which
the scrip stood in the market exceeded
the premium payable to the co.
The £33,922 of fresh capital and
£17,103 of share premiums that came in
during the last term, together with
£51,732 added to the outside debt, which
includes an unspecified amount of staff
provident fund and provision for taxa-
tion, went into stocks (up £66,246) and
book debts (up £45,488):
1930. 1930. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital . . £690,740 £322,256 £342,043 £375,965
Liabilities* . . 106,094 77,923 109,954 161,686
Freeholds . . 110,319 120,565 120,565 120,565
Stocks.. .. 216,163 149,427 155,167 221,413
Sundry debtors 456,252 335,909 409,705 455,193
Cash and in-
vestments . . 308,471 87,223 73,257 68,206
‘lncluding provident account and tax provision.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£583,126) was £54,951,
due mainly to the new capital and share
premiums already referred to. The board
says stocks have been taken at cost or
less and less reserves, and the same ap-
plies to investments, which are. worth
more than their book value. Investments
consist of cash (£25,129), Government
securities, etc. (£41,081), and shares in
Edwards Dunlop (London), Ltd., which
acts as agent for the parent. Freeholds,
also worth more than their book value,
are unchanged at £120,565 (cost). They
consist of four warehouses in Sydney,
one in Melbourne and another in Bris-
bane. Three of the Sydney properties
were bought before the war, the other
was acquired in 1935, and the Brisbane
and Melbourne premises were purchased
in 1925.
Although Australia’s big daily news-
papers, or most of them, now bUy news-
print through their own pool, E.D. and
Co. claimed £4086 more profit last term.
The £37,091 netted was 10.2 p.c. on aver-
age capital as against 10.2, 9.7, 9.5 and
9 p.c. for the four preceding years. That
was after writing off £2974 spent on
equipment during the year, and placing
a conservative value on assets, which sug-
gests that every penny may not have
been placed on the table.
The market, which sees no cloud in
the co.’s sky, prices the pound shares at
495. 3d. as against 50s. a year ago. At
the lower figure the return is 3.9 p.c.
on a 9f p.c. div. basis, or 4.1 p.c. on a
10 p.c. distribution. The visible cover
is 365. lid. in net tangibles.
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 38,048 11} p.c. = 19,516 18,532 141,172
Share premiums, £65,000 .. .. 206,172
1937.. 88,553 12J p.c. = 29,318 9,235 \
Brokerage, etc., written off, £3911 J ’
1935.. 42,498 124 p.c. = 31,249 11,249 222,745
The market prices the pound shares at
535. as against 555. 3d. a year ago. The
slip is due to the hardening of interest
rates. Allowing for the final div. (Is.
4d. per share), the net price is now 51s.
Bd., at which figure the return is 4.8 p.c.
on a 12| p.c. div. basis. It is a very satis-
factory return from a sound brewery
stock with future possibilities. On book
values net tangible cover per share is
375. lOd.
The brewery is at Ballarat, and the
business extends throughout western Vic.
and to Melbourne, Mt. Gambier (S.A.)
and the Riverina (N.S-.W.). Earnings
and divs. have steadily lengthened their
pace with continuous expansion of the
business. For the decade to the close
of accounts in 1905 divs. averaged 5.25
p.c., followed by 6.9 p.c. and 8.42 p.c.
for the next two decades, 10.64 p.c. for
the 10 years to 1935, including the diffi-
cult slump period, and then 11.25, 12.5
and 12.5 p.c. for the three years to the
end of May last.
In 1935 shareholders welcomed the
opportunity to take 25,000 new £1 shares
at a premium of 10s. each, and a further
65,000 were offered and snapped at a
premium of 20s. apiece in September,
1936, making paid capital (originally
£100,000) £250,000. The new share and


Hlodern
AND EFFICIENT
THAVEL SERVICE
o
A modern and completely equipped Travel Depart-
ment is maintained by the Bank of New South
Wales for the convenience of travellers and visitors.
This Department arranges world and local tours,
makes bookings and reservations for travel by
sea, land and air, secures accommodation, advises
on Income Tax clearances and passports and
arranges baggage insurance. No charge is made
for the services rendered by this Department.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
TRAVEL DEPARTMENTS
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Cairns, Townsville, Wellington (N.Z.),
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, Suva and London
345 C. 1938
rSURE UNCERTAIN TIMES
"Don't forget to see
the A.M.P."
IT is a wise woman who persuades her husband to put part of his
earnings into providing for his old age, and hers. His membership
in the A.M.P. Society will give her peace o’ mind and will prove
an investment in happiness for both of them.
"I persuaded him to take out that policy," said Mrs. Henry
Harcourt Tomlinson recently, when her husband received a cheque
for £6BB on his 55th birthday.
"He was 25. and we had to pay in £l2/13/4 a year, which didn’t
hurt us. The policy was for £4OO. It has grown, with bonuses, to
£6BB. My only regret is that we didn’t take out a policy twice the
size. Never mind. It has been a marvellous investment.”
Quite so, a marvellous investment, with this unique feature: That
if her husband had died, even a month after he became a member of
the Society, she would have got the £4OO.
The wise woman whose husband is not adequately assured will
remind him of his opportunities now and then. She will say to him:
“Don’t forget to see the A.M.P. to-day.” She might even tell the
nearest A.M.P. office that she would like a representative to call and
explain the whole, cheerful business of Investing in Happiness.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
\ A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
D. E. Walker, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
premium moneys, and more besides, were
used chiefly to improve and extend the
plant and buy up hotel freeholds, thus
widening and anchoring turnover.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts further extensions were
made to the fermenting and storage
equipment, more hotels were bought, im-
provements were made to existing ones,
the bottling plant is in the process of
duplication, and the building to house
the new brewing plant, delivery of which
has begun, is nearing completion. After
striking off whatever the board con-
sidered necessary for depreciation, the
net growth in the book value of the
brewery building and hotels was £57,142
and of plant £2500:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. £184,625 £250,000 £250,000
Mortgage .. 1,500 30,500 38,500
Overdraft .. 80,138 24,662 66,175
Sundry creditors 6,766 11,509 13,107
Brewery, hotels, etc. 259,133 368,510 425,652
Plant, etc. . . 47,000 47,000 49,500
Stock . . . . 23,136 21,763 24,872
Advances .. 83,419 110,545 111,412
Shares other cos. 353 353 353
Cash, etc. .. 12,676 3,662 5,904
To meet the outlay £BOOO was added to
the mortgage, £41,513 to the overdraft
and £1598 to the amount coming to sun-
dry creditors. When the books closed
more or less liquids exceeded outside
liabilities by £24,759, or £44,893 less than
at the previous balance. Assets are worth
a lot more than their book value.
At the end of May, 1936, the brewery,
plant, hotels, etc., which figured in the
published accounts at £292,133, were in-
dependently valued at a total of £545,200,
and that usually means much so far as
earning power is concerned.
The year’s gross earnings from brew-
ing, etc. (£102,517), were up £4945, and
rents, etc., turned in £31,249 (up £4212),
or exactly the amount the 12£ p.c. div.
called for. After paying all exes, and
providing for depreciation, taxation, etc.,
the net result (up £3945) was equal to 17
p.c. on capital as against 16.4 p.c. for
the previous term.
Subject to economic developments, and
notwithstanding that beer consumption
in Vic. is flow around the pre-depression
average of 12 gallons per head of popu-
lation, prospects of the co. making a
better showing at next balance are en-
couraging.
Thabawleik Tin Dredging, Ltd.
, —Surplus—v
Dec., Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
1935.. £96,796 £49,981 £46,815 6/10 4/- £32,000
1936.. 85.079’ 40,517 44,562 5/6 3/6 28,000
1937.. 66,650 40,322 26,328 3/3 3/- 24,000
* Includes depreciation: 1935, £4682; 1936, nil;
1937, £1826.
Fathered by Austral Malay in 1923,
Thabawleik Tin is located in the wild
and difficult-of-access inland Mergui dis-
trict, Lower Burma. The co. has a rich
property, and, Burma not being a sig-
natory to the International Tin Agree-
ment, Thabawleik participates in all ad-
vantages gained by restriction without
being pledged to control its own output.
Heavy clay, bamboo roots and other
vegetable rubbish, however, make dredg-
ing difficult. Dry seasons have also been
a worry, though dam-construction has
done much to alleviate water shortages.
With the exception of the years
1930-32, when the plant closed down,
consistently good profits have been won.
Last term opportunity was taken of high
metal prices to dredge the low-grade west
leg of the property ; recoveries were con-
sequently almost halved compared with
1936:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Cubic yards .. 1,724,000 1,391,000 1,777,000
T. 0., tons.. .. 638.2 595.6 388.7
Av. recovery, t.o.—
New ground .. 1.241 b. 1.051 b. ’ 0.491 b.
Tailings .. 0.331 b. 0.431 b.
0.831 b. 0.961 b. 0.491 b.
Working cost, c.y. 3.57 d. 4.56 d. 3.74 d.
Selling price metallic
tin' London, ton £217/17/6 £2OO/5/3 £240/18/-
Mine working costs, as high as 11.87 d.
a c.y. in 1928, showed a reduction to
3.74 d., though variations of up to 24ft.
in surface level entailed considerable
dam-building to control water depths.
The net result, before writing £2420 off
investments, was a profit of £26,328 stg.
(down £18,234). Sixpence was clipped
off the div. (3s. a share); another Is. 6d.
has gone out since the close of accounts.
At Dec. 31, 1936, dredging reserves
comprised 11,750,000 c.y., of which
8,750,000 c.y. is estimated to go 1.31 b.
t. 0., the balance being low-grade. Turn-
ing over 150,000 c.y. monthly, the richer
portion would contain five years’ work.
As for immediate prospects, the
dredge’s path is reported to lie through
0.61 b. ground in the current term. Re-
coveries for the four months ended April
have been around last term’s average,
but working surplus is down to £B3OO.
Re-establishment of the buffer pool
promises to cause some steadying of tin
prices. Fuii lerails vert tc be finalised
at a meeting of the Tin Committee on
June 20.
Thabawleik has 160,000 £1 shares to
pay divs. on. At 335. (buyers) each, the
market values the undertaking at
£264,000. At Dec. 31 the co. had £11,067
in the bank and investments (mainly
public securities) of £59,126 ; other more
or less liquids comfortably covered the
small debt.
Amalgamated Zinc (De Bavay’s), Ltd.
Having fulfilled the purpose for which
it was formed, and having contributed, in
money and otherwise, to establishment
of the zinc industry and the now-develop-
ing manufacture of fine printing and
writing papers in Australia, this reincar-
nation of the old De Bavay’s Co. volun-
tarily put up the shutters last week. Paid
capital is £200,000 in 500,000 Bs. shares,
for each of which it is expected to distri-
bute Is. in cash and 2} fully-paid 4s.
shares in Zinc Investments, Ltd.
Zinc Investments will hold, the shares
in other cos. formerly in the hands of
Amalgamated, together with about
£lO,OOO cash and a book debt of £2250,
to come from Tasmanian Paper Pty. The
shareholdings comprise 82,250 shares
paid to 17s. each and 36,000 paid to 14s.
3d. each in Minerals Separation and De
Bavay’s Processes, 10,000 10s. shares paid
to 2s. each in Mining and Metallurgical
Processes, 50,000 f.-p. £1 shares in Tas-
manian Paper Pty. and 150,000 f.-p. £1
ords. in Associated Pulp and Mills. The'
two cos. operating metallurgical pro-
cesses together lately turned in around
£5OOO p.a. to Amalgamated, but owing
to the limited life of the patents, etc.,
returns from this source are not expected
to continue for long. So, until its paper
interests begin to turn in something, Zinc
Investments’ dividend possibilities are a
small and fading prospect.
Amalgamated took over the zinc-flota-
tion business of De Bavay’s Treatment
Co. in 1909. Litigation soon arose be-
tween the De Bavay cos. and Minerals
Separation concerning the similarity of
patents. The outcome was the formation
of Minerals Separation and De Bavay’s
Processes, which took over the Australian
rights in both cos.’ patents in 1912. The
concentrates were sold to European
(mainly Belgian and German) smelters
for final treatment. In 1915, following
the outbreak of war, Amalgamated, to-
gether with the principal Broken Hill
cos., investigated processes for the elec-
trolytic treatment of zinc concentrates
and the production of high-grade spelter.
Formation of the Electrolytic Zinc Co.
followed in May, 1916, and works were
erected at Risdon (Tas.). In 1925 Amal-
gamated reduced its paid capital to
£200,000 by distributing its holding
(300,000 ords.) in Electrolytic. It ceased
treatment of the tailings and dump slimes
of the various cos. at the Barrier in
1924, and the last of the concentrates
were sold in 1930. Meanwhile, 50,000
shares were taken in Tasmanian Paper
Pty., and an intensive investigation of
technical and other problems associated
with the production of newsprint in Aus-
tralia was instituted. One result was the
formation in 1936 of Associated Pulp and


Sin%le2s' m
Double 35
Is Your Truss p.
Efficient >
THIS Elastic Truss will provide sup-
port and comfort for the wearer.
Fitted with a flexible Scrotal pad, it
is as effective as it is comfortable, and
is the only type of Elastic Truss that
holds a descending hernia. NO
METAL SPRING.
WARNER & WEBSTER
240 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COOEE
AUTO OILED,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
I
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
1
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: C8380.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M6505,
SUCCESS IN AIR CONDITIONING
is attained with the aid of the Hygrometric
Chart (Copyright by Andrew Lewis),
Price 1/3 Post Free from the
AIR CONDITIONING DATA & TESTING
COMPANY,
178 Oxford Street, Paddington, N.S.W.
Tests Inspections Reports.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Gable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
# * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Go. (Melb.). —Ahvt.
H: * * if
ORES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * *
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS—
William Adams & Company, Ltd. These tools are
fully illustrated and priced in our 1935 General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for your free copy.— Advt.
;» OltlSlt COROIAt
Paper Mills (issued capital £1,200,000 in
250,000 deferreds and 950,000 ords.),
whose products from its mill at Burnie
(Tas.) should soon be on the market,
According to prospectus estimates, Asso-
dated expects to net about 9 p.c. on
capital when it gets into its stride.
New Zealand Petroleum, Ltd.
The nossibilitv of striking a more sub-
. t- nil thnnhnc
stantia m M _iHnd
thus a ■ct
Sf 5 *2?“ 1
test down \o 8000 ft if necessary the
most promising areas of the Hawked Bay-
Fact Cane district where a small flow
N now beinfotoired from a 3910 ft
wen near New“ouS The New
Zealand Petroleum Co., Ltd., has been
formed for the purpose with a capital
of £250.600 in 600 A and 250,000 B
shares. The A shares are held 200 each
by Shale Oil Investigations, Vacuum Oil
and California Texas Investments. The
last-named is a subsidiary of the Stand-
ard Oil and Texas Oil cos. (U.S.A.),
and the shares of Shale Oil Investiga-
tions are held chiefly by Taranaki (N.Z.)
Oil Fields, North Broken Hill, Broken
Hill South, Zinc Corp. and Electrolytic
Zinc. The A shares participate exclu-
sively in profits and any new capital
issues, which will be in A shares and
offered first to the holders thereof. The
B shares, which are being subscribed
by Vacuum and California Texas Invest-
merits, do not participate in profits, nor
have they any voting rights, but in the
event of a wind-up they rank equally
with the A shares.
Discussing the occurrence of oil in
Maoriland, Dr. J. Henderson, director
of the geological survey, recently said
there are at least two considerable oil-
forming periods in the Dominion. The
younger occurred in early Pliocene and
late Miocene times, and the older in
the early Tertiary and late Cretaceous
periods. To the former belong the oil-
yielding rocks of New Plymouth and
Kotuka, and to the latter those of the
East Cape-Gisborne district. The dark
argillaceous beds in the Gisborne and
Hawke s Ba y regions smell of oil at
many points, and may well be the
source the oil in the Murchison basin,
though here black carbonaceous shales
of early Tertiary age occur.
On th e board of N.Z. Petroleum are
knights Colin Fraser (chairman) and
Massy-Greene, Hugh Hamilton, W. A.
Inch, A. K. S. Mackenzie and H. H.
Sterling.
On May 21 Bulolo Gold Dredging,
New Guinea, distributed $1.50 Canadian
per $5 share, making a distribution for
the year just closed of 60 p.c., as
against 58 p.c. in the previous year, when
net earnings ran to $3.26 a share after
allowing $0.32 per share for amortisa-
tion. The co. has just started up its sixth
unit, a seventh, a big deep-digging plant,
will set in later in the year, and
an eighth later still. It all adds to
the long-term prospects of the shares,
now enjoying a burst of popularity in the
market following a record monthly re-
turn for May, when 15,4990 z. fine gold
was won for a working surplus of
£100,038 Australian. Another good
yield is indicated for June, but the
C o. is at present in above-average
wash. The May return, which ended the
financial year, raised the twelve months’
turnover to 11,150,000 c.y., the gold
return to 133,1640 z. fine and the working
surplus to £A810,288. Australian inves-
tors have both a direct and (through
Placer, which owns a third of the capital)
indirect interest in the co.
* * * *
Blue Mountains Gold, N.L., formed
in Cairns a couple of years ago, is open-
ing up four encouraging strikes on its
60-acre claim on the new Blue Mountains
field, 35 miles n.-e. of Coen, Cape York
Peninsula. It has five head of stamps,
driven by a suction gas plant, on the
field, where it also crushes for adjoining
owners. On the North Wasp a 35-ton
trial crushing from a 3ft. 6in. reef, fol-
lowed down for 54ft. from the surface,
averaged 17dwt. A straight main haul-
age and pumping shaft is being sunk to
100 ft. to cut the reef on the underlay.
On the South Wasp a 3ft. reef, yielding
similar values, has been followed down
for 65ft. On the Golden Surprise 25 tons
averaged 19dwt., with loz. sdwt. in the
concentrates and sands. The reef dipped
out of the shaft at 40ft., and 20ft. further
on sulphides and water came in. Here
9in. of 3oz. stuff is showing, but work
has been suspended until the two Wasps
are better equipped. On the Convict,
where a number of 3in. to lOin. leaders,
assaying from 3oz. to lOoz. to the ton,
are visible, a 180 ft. tunnel (now in 90ft.)
is being driven to pick up the reef show-
ing on top of the hill, 150 ft. above. Other
makes, showing good dish prospects, have
been discovered but not yet opened up.
Obviously much will depend upon what
happens in the sulphide zone.
* * * *
While it is impossible at present to
assess the precise significance of recent
mine disclosures at Wiluna (W.A.)
they are distinctly encouraging, says the
chairman. In the Bulletin section the
occurrence at 1200 ft. of ore of a higher
grade than mine average tends to dispel
fears that the grade in this area (about
a mile and a half north of the main
workings) progressively diminishes in
depth. In the main mine recent ex-
ploratory work, both to the north and
south of the main workings, has indi-
cated payable extensions of the west and
east lode systems at depth. Neverthe-
less, the history of the mine suggests that
until further work has been carried out
the full importance of these disclosures
cannot be definitely determined. The
“Wild Cat” hears from a man on the
spot that, while results from diamond-
drilling recently started at the deepest
jfbint in the mine have not been very
striking, the chance of getting something
worth having is not hopeless.
* * * *
While throughput went up from
192,591 tons to 218,244 short tons, net
surplus of Great Boulder (W.A.) for the
12 months to Dec. 31 last came down
from £87,066 to £73,553, or £3318 less
than the unchanged 25 p.c. handout
£62,500) and Australian taxes (£14,371)
required. A better showing is indi-
cated for the current year. For the
first four months recoveries on treat-
ment of 79,822 tons have been approx.
7s. (Aust.) a ton better, while working
costs have risen only a few pence. Special
development expenditure has been almost
unchanged, but to April capital outlay
on machinery and plant has been just
short of half the £A 126,511 expended
last year. The intention is to step through-
put up to 25,000 tons monthly by the
beginning of 1939. Estimated ore await-
ing extraction at Dec., 1936, was 836,960
tons averaging 7.2 ’weights. Most in-
teresting recent development was the dis-
covery of a new lode, payable over a
width of 43ft., in virgin ground on the
2650 ft. level. The drive in which the reef
was met is part of a scheme for working
lodes previously tackled from the Hamil-
ton shaft. Plans involve a new haulage
drive of 2400 ft. and the sinking of an
internal shaft between the 1800 ft. and
2650 ft. horizons. Situated on the Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile, between the Lake
View and Boulder Perseverance blocks,
Great Boulder has been a consistent div.-
payer since 1895, with the exception of
the years 1924-28. In 1935 the co.
handed over its mining investments to
Great Boulder Mining and Finance, part-
consideration being 414,000 f.-p. ss.
shares. Valued in the Australian market
around Is. 6d. each, die lot appear in
Great Boulder’s books at the nominal
figure of £l. * *
At its Mararoa, Cue (W.A.), mine.
Triton is now treating at the rate ol
112 000 tons annually. Last term 75,800
tons went through the mill. For the eight
months of the current term to May
throughput was 60,000 tons ; recoveries
were down to 6.2dwt., as against 7.lldwt.
last term, but that partly reflects milling
of lower-grade ore following savings in
costs. At Sept. 30 ore reserves above No
6 level* (223,000 tons averaging 7±dwt.)
were equal to about two years’ supply
for the enlarged plant. Three new levels,
the deepest at 1075 ft., are being opened
up. ' *
* * * *
Comet, principally owned by Great
Boulder Mining and Finance, continues
to shine brightly in Westralia’s golden
sky. Aggregate value of production (all
from shallow workings) is estimated at
nearly £lOO,OOO. The shoot from which
this wealth was obtained is reported to
be going down, and mine prospects are
going up. North Kalgurli United, an-
other of the Westralian De Bernales
group, and which is carrying on at the
extreme northern end of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile, claims to have struck
better-grade ore at 600 ft. Values of about
lldwt. a ton over a width of 45in. are
reported.
* * * *
Sand Queen-Gladsome, one of De Ber-
nales’s ventures at Comet Vale (W.A.), re-
cently secured 12 months’ exemption in the
Kalgoorlie Warden’s Court. The co. holds
72 acres, on which it has done 1450 ft.
of driving, 66ft. of crosscutting, 483 ft.
of winzing, 371 ft. of rising, 25ft. of sink-
ing and 3016 ft. of diamond-drilling. It
has spent over £86,000, and won 7710|0z.
of gold.
* 4: * *
Flotation in London by Herman Man-
delstam of Paddy’s Flat gold group at
Meekatharra (W.A.) still hangs fire.
Underwriters hesitate to come in, and
without their assistance the success of
the float would be very uncertain at
present. Paddy’s Flat group includes the
Ingliston Consols, Fdnian, Marmont,
Commodore and other blocks, which in
the aggregate have produced over a mil-
lion ounces of gold. A report on the
group obtained about two years ago from
Dr. Loftus Hill was stated to be favor-
able. Ingliston has been, and still is, the
principal producer. It has been a con-
tributor to the Westralian gold yield for
over 30 years, and has paid many divi-
dends. Though not the mine it was,
admirers claim that it is far from
worked out.
North Kalgurli Central, which has
worked its Golden Mile (W.A.) lease for
the last five years and spent about
£32,000 on it, without any conspicuous
success, is now endeavoring to interest
London in the property.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
L.A.H.: It looks like a case where a bird
in the hand might be worth two in the bush.
P.H.: If you cannot afford to lose keep
out... .Glenusk: Co. is struggling to get round
the corner; bonuses to policy-holders not yei
in sight W.D.: (1) No. (2) Examination of
co.’s register. (3) Hold —for the present, at
any rate... .E.R.G.: Not recommended....
H.S.: The units are backed by a well-spread
interest in sound stocks, and at present price
(195.) offer good prospects of satisfactory
yields.


SMOKE-OH!
“O’Reilly then put Hammond out of his
misery, bowling him as he played forward to a
well-flighted leg-break.”— The “ D.T.’s” special
representative on first innings of first Test.
“O’Reilly then got Hammond. A beautiful
off-break beat the English captain, and O’Reilly
let out an appeal almost before the ball hit
the stumps,”— Arthur Mailey, same issue.
Well, what chance had Hammond
when it broke both ways?
4* 4* 4* 4*
When a literary thief turns over a new
leaf it does not mean that he’s going to
reform.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Apologising to the Bench, Pike said he was
not acquainted with the procedure of courts.”
— “Sun” report.
Pike felt like a fish out of water, in
fact.
4 4* 4« 4*
“A clergyman says that it is the ‘last drink
before we go,’ that does the harm.”
Still, the subsequent “Well, you’ve
got to have another with me now” helps
a lot.
•j.
Strange how flighty women are hardly
ever heir-minded !
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mr. Katz has been appointed assistant sec-
retary to Melbourne Trades Hall.”
He ought to make the fur fly.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Many a straight tip leads to a crook
bet.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“After obtaining her divorce she appeared in
a new farce.”
—Gossip writer on American film star.
Married again, presumably.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Fight Between Two Bellringers.”
—News item.
It was a ding-dong go, no doubt.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Report of Anti-noise Committee.”
—Paper heading.
But isn’t this against their principles?
”I've been Wantin' to do that for Weeks!”
The A.B.C. of Canned Cricket.
“....and now Hammond has placed
his field and is turning to deliver his first
ball to Bradman. A short one, and
Brown drives it firmly to mid-on. No
run. Here he is again, taking his short
run. Over it comes and Brown slays it
ploly—ha, ha! plays it slowly back to
the bowler. Brown again to Hammond,
and he snicks it just out of reach of
Hammond. There’s no hope of stopping
it and it flashes straight under the ro-
No, Barnett makes a beautiful save, and
Bradman just scrambles back as the ball
is returned. That makes Bradman 29.
Hammond again to Bradman. This one
is overpitched, and he drives it hard be-
tween point and cover for four. That
brings Bradman to 27 and leaves Brown
to face Hammond. Hammond again
bowling to Hammond, and it raps him
on the pads. No appeal.
“Now that’s the end of Hammond’s
over. The English captain is talking to
Ames in the centre of the pitch. Yes,
it looks like a change in the bowling.
Yes, Hammond’s coming on, bowling to
Bradman. Bradman 25, Brown 60. Now
Bradman faces Brown. Down it comes,
and he moves across and taps it gently
to Bradman at point. Over comes the
second, and 1 Hammond gets this away
brilliantly, picking the gap between the
bowler and mid-on, making Fingleton 42.
No, Fingleton was dismissed before, of
course.
“There’s a slight adjustment here.
Bradman is 34; that last boundary had
been credited by mistake to Brown.
Brown shaping up to the next. Over it
comes. He leans forward, misses and
is clean bowled! Bradman out, clean
bowled by Hammond! Well, that’s a
big blow to Australia. Bradman is
bowled. No, it’s Brown that’s out. Yes,
Brown out, clean bowled by Hammond.
No, wait a minute —it’s a no-ball!
Yes, a no-ball from Edrich clean-bowled
Bradman! Well, that’s a relief....”
80.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Prelim.
“I don’t like to see a boxer trembling before
a contest.”— Boxing writer.
This critic of the manly art
Can scarcely be a sport at heart,
For surely it is only right
For men to shake before a fiqht!
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I came to the conclusion that either my
wife was mad or I was.”
—Divorce Court report.
Two minds with but one shingle short.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“One elderly lady was compensated by the
Federal Government for injuries sustained when
she slipped in the polling-booth.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
A host of candidates who slipped at
the polling-booth didn’t get much out
of it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Revised Editions.
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
Simon Legree was a double-dyed
villain. Unfortunately Simon used lapa-
nese dyes, the wharf-laborers declared
him black ; and he hated black men like
L.ll
Fate was dealing Simon a rough hand,
Uncl@ , Tom wa * fast becomin ° g a dis _
tant S p ec k on tbe j ce Little did Simon
SUS p e ct that Uncle Tom had been secretly
training on his ice-skates.
And Simon’s favorite bloodhound,
Pinkie, had turned dog on him.
Pinkie was within an ace, two jacks
and four no-trumps of landing Uncle
“ Well , you TOLD me to kick it over!”
Tom when he suddenly switched off on
to the scent of a travelling tinsmith. That
was because Pinkie had once been a
great favorite with tin-hare punters.
Simon was about to grind his teeth but
bitterly remembered that the t.-p. man
had repossessed them.
Little wonder that Simon Legree was
consumed with a burning rage and that
this melted the ice and he disappeared
into a watery grave!
Simon’s widow almost collected ten-
and-six under the “Daily Wail’s” free in-
surance scheme and reckoned that had
she collected it it would have been about
ten times his value.
Uncle Tom’s Cabin is now a smart
cabaret, where Uncle and his Tom Tom
Boys wail on saxophones and Little Eva
nightly croons “It’s Rum Blossom Time
in Bundaberg Lane.”
D. McM.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Burglars are careful not to leave finger-
prints even in their own homes,” declares a
detective.
And no doubt their wives are just as
strict about their dropping cigarette ash
on the carpet, too.
*£* •£•
“The cosmetic industry is now of front-rank
importance.”— Sydney paper.
Shares in it should be worth their face
value.
m Tt
Some Little-known Facts About
Mexico.
II. —Its History.
The history of Mexico can be best
considered in three phases: (a) ancient
civilisation, (b) colonial period, (c) inde-
pendent republic. The chief difference
was that during the first period the
Mexicans enjoyed the privilege of killing
each other, which pastime was suppressed
by their Spanish conquerors, who reserved
to themselves the right to kill off the
Mexicans during the second. With the
overthrow of Spanish rule and the for-
mation of the republic the right to wipe
each other out was restored.
When Cortes conquered the country in
1520 he magnanimously announced that,
except that they would be kept in per-
petual serfdom and be subject to tribute,
the natives were at complete liberty to
do as they pleased. As Cortes had for-
gotten to bring over any Mexican-Spanish
dictionaries, and as they had never heard
of the words “perpetual,” “serfdom” and
“tribute,” the natives received the news
with glad howls.
The revolts which were to end Spain’s
300-year rule started when Napoleon set
up his brother Joe as King of Spain.
That worthy not only ordered that all
cooking at the Escurial should be French,
but that fricasseed snails displace fried
bull on vice-regal menus in the colonies.
As Mexico had only slugs, snails were
introduced from France, and the en-
raged Mexican market gardeners threw
in their lot with the rebel Iturbide. The
final straw came when the last of the
viceroys. General O’Donoju, through
his provincial Governors, Guadalupe
O’Brienez and Pastanza y Murphy, tried
to make potheen the national booze. The
whole of Mexico thereupon rose, and the
Spanish rule was no more.
The rise of President Bustamente
ushered in the true revolutionary era,
which has been going hard ever since.
It was in 1824 that President Gomez
Farias passed a measure making it illegal
for anybody to become a dictator unless
he was a self-appointed general, with a
Christian name either Gomez or Diaz,
and didn’t wear a bullet-proof shirt.
One of the most progressive of the dic-
tators was Santa Anna. He overcame
Farias’s ban because Anna is a
woman’s name, and such is the chivalry
inherent in the Mexican that whenever
Santa passed in the streets the populace
swept their hats off to him. As the dic-
tator was 18 stone, unwashed, had a
moustache like a matted horse’s tail and
wore iron earrings this insult to his man-
hood gradually broke him up. He even-
tually strangled himself with his
moustache.
But not before he had done good work
for Mexico. The troublous State of
Texas had seceded, the secession being
recognised by the U.S.A. and Britain.
Several American chewing-gum mag-
nates, foreseeing a big market if Texas
could be incorporated into the Union,
brought pressure to bear on Washington
to have it annexed. Santa protested, so
a mixed commission was formed to ad-
judicate, with the King of Prussia as
umpire (1840-41).
Lord Squawk, representing the Eng-
lish bondholders, protested that the
Mexican team of diplomats was led by a
professional dictator. When the King of
Prussia decided for the U.S.A. and
Santa questioned the umpire’s decision,
Lord Squawk gave a strangled sob, said
“Gad! this isn’t cricket, sir!” and broke
a blood-vessel.
This led to an international crisis, and
the “News-Monocle” demanded that Eng-
land go to war immediately with
Mexico. But the U.S.A. insisted that
they had first claim on a war, and that,
anyway, they hadn’t had a decent one for
nearly 70 years.
Thus began the U.S.A.-Mexican War
(1846-48). It wouldn’t have lasted so
long only the slaveholders of the southern
States forgot to mention to the U.S.
Government that they had already
grabbed California in the first month of
the war, which was what they had
arranged the war for in the first place.
Some years later Santa Anna was re-
called to the dictatorship, and he sold
Arizona to the U.S.A. Shortly after this
he left the country, thus setting the tradi-
tion which has since been rigidly fol-
lowed by every retiring dictator of
tickling the national peter before going.
S. W. K.
The Winner.
"When her husband was ncad of a distribut-
ing firm he gave over £4OO in gifts and money
to a girl typist, besides making her a present
of £250-worth of shares.” — Divorce report.
The smart*stenog. whose fingers whirl
Over the keys, when all is said,
Just gets enough for board and bed;
The harvest gold goes to the girl
Who knows the way to work her Head.
H. M.
Placed.
The missus keeps me on the stir ;
She’ll order me about
To show that she’s the manager —
And I’m the roused-about.
H. M.


INVESTIGATE
BEFORE
INVESTING
r.
Obviously, this is the logical
procedure when your money,
no matter how rtiuch, is .
involved.
Therefore, you owe it to
yourself to investigate im-
mediately an investment
considered by the world’s
leading financial experts to
be of the soundest.
Write for free Booklet
No. 1 to: , .
AUSTRALIAN
FIXED TRUSTS
PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Phone: 85295. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
The Steadier Types.
The depression of 1930-34 (or
thereabouts) tested the earning
power and management of most
enterprises. Cos. that had a satis-
factory history then, and shares in
which show reasonable returns now,
include: —Yarra Falls (385., 5.3
p.c.), Australasian Paper ord.
(28s. 9d., 5.5 p.c.), Arthur Cocks
ord. (235. 6d., 6.9 p.c.), Castlemaine
Perkins (225. 9d., 4.4 p.c.), Berlei
ord. (405., 5 p.c.), and Carlton
Brewery (655., 4.6 p.c.).
COME TO THE
LEIPZIG
TRADE FAIB
•Shop all Europe in one centre. Over
8000 exhibitors from 25 countries,
including Great Britain, assemble at
Leipzig for your convenience. Join
the 280,000 trade buyers who visit
Leipzig Fair twice a year.
AUTUMN FAIR
begins
AUGUST 28tH
Comprising General Samples, Textiles,
Office Equipment, Furniture, Sports
Goods, Photographic, Engineering and
Building Fairs.
Information (including Travel Marks and
Aski Trading Marks) and Letters of
Introduction available of LARS G.
BRUNDAHL, Commissioner in Australia
for the Leipzig ; International Industries
Fair, Challis House, Martin Place, G.P.O.
Box 3127 P, Sydney; C. N. KEPPEL.
Temple Court, 422 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne; J. M. BEIERS, 305 Queen Street,
Brisbane; H. C. ITTERSHAGEN, Shen-
ton Park, West Australia.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Shares and “Equilibrium”
The highest point up till then in Aus-
tralian share prices was reached in April,
1929. By September, 1931, the depths
of depression had been plumbed. In
March, 1937, a new and steeper highest
point had been attained, assisted by real
industrial expansion right throughout the
Commonwealth. Since January this year
share prices on the whole have been on
a stpady decline, after bumpy behavioi
lor eight months following the Nev
York gold-price scare of April, 1937.
Sharemarkets have decidedly lost thei
punch. There are a number of self
produced causes, quite apart from othe
economic conditions:
(a) The overbought market (i.e., investors
and speculators have in many cases bought
more scrip than they can hold or want to
hold) has little or no resisting-power against
the adverse trend indicated by trade over-
seas.
( b ) In many instances speculation early
in 1937 pushed base-metal and industrial
stocks to too-high levels, and once that
happens there is bound to be a reaction.
(c) Speculators are attracted like ants
to sugar on a rising market, but when a
reverse seems indicated they can’t be
dragged near the Exchanges—except to see
how their present holdings are faring.
id) Credit facilities are being restricted
as far as Stock Exchange—and other— -
dealings are concerned.
(< e ) Market setbacks seem always to pro-
duce more setbacks until weaklings are
shaken out.
Those are the main factors of a purely
market nature, and as such they require
separation from the more far-reaching
national aspects. Sharemarket excesses
often bring their own reactions, apart
from outside influences; this is seen
when goldmining madness sets in. Among
industrial investments excesses are less
pronounced, but they do often occur.
In Australia there has been rash gambling
in chain-store scrip, for instance; and
there have been other cases.
It isn’t surprising that, since the Stock
Exchanges offer such tempting facilities
to buy and sell equities in all manner
of enterprises (business can be done
merely by ringing-up), ’Change prices
reflect slump and fecovery more quickly
than any other economic indicator. Some-
times ’Change activities have a good deal
to do with creating “peaks” in business
activity and influencing “lows.” Certain
it is now that, whatever the .cause,, Aus-
tralian ’Changes have for some time been
showing a dullness that is not yet univer-
sally reflected in other forms of business
activity.
One reason is that speculation is of an
international nature, and in countries
where, for some reason or other, a pinch
is being felt, there has been a decline in
sharemarket quotations that has affected
the whole world. Sharemarket ups and
downs in the U.S.A., France and Britain
have been influencing our own share
prices for some time. It all happens just
as quickly as the cables can carry news
to the various parts of the globe, and
for this reason sharemarkets often seem
to anticipate the trend of economic
"I wish to apologise , sir I didn't win the lottery after all.”
affairs. Sometimes they are wrong, and
often they are excessively optimistic and
pessimistic by turn.
In B. 8/6/’3B a survey of the national
economic position was given, and it
showed that some difficulties were ahead,
their extent depending largely on how
prices for our exports continue to shape
overseas. A year’s wool, sold-slowly and
leaving a ‘ substantial carry-over, will
return about 12d., as against 16.8 d.,
14;2d. and lOd. in the three preceding
terms. At present prices are lower than
the season’s average, meaning that the
new season threatens to open on a worse
‘footing than the one now closing. Wheat
fell to 3s. 6d. recently, after staying near
ss. for a considerable time; it steadied
around 3s. Bd. last week, at which figure
it should be generally profitable, but not
lucrative. All base metals are down
heavily, and most of the miscellaneous
land products are feeling the strain of
lower prices or dry weather.
Because our trade balance will be
£9,000,000 or so sterling short of our
overseas interest bill, and because land-
men on the whole will be wanting more
help, banks will of necessity be fighter
with money. Imports will have to be
curtailed,, and if the price level shows a
general reduction there will be demands
for wage-cuts. It is all likely to tend
to discourage new investments, in prop-
erty as well as shares, and such a “but-
toning-up” may have reactions.
World prices depend largely on world
trade, which is reported to have fallen
off by 12 p.c. during the first quarter of
1938. But if Australia is able to bring
its costs into keeping with its income
we shouldn’t have to worry ourselves
into a decline unless prices for wool,
wheat, etc., show signs of going substan-
tially lower for a lengthy time. This
page regarded the boom in prices early
in 1937 as unhealthy and undesirable,
and if figures can be steadied at 25 p.c. or
30 . p.c. lower than the 1937 peak, with
costs in harmony, so much the better.
Stability breeds the right kind of con-
fidence ; booms produce foolhardiness.
One of Australia’s great sources of
strength lies in the fact that, although our
currency has been devalued 20 p.c., the
cost of living (even in paper money com-
pared with gold) is still considerably below
the high level of 1928-29. The Com-
monwealth Statistician’s “All Houses”
index of food and rent costs fell from
1825 in Dec., 1929, to 1330 in March,
1933. By March, 1938, it had risen to
1530 —still 16 p.c. below the 1928 peak.
“All items of household expenditure,”
according to this same authority, have
fallen from 1712 to 1327, and then risen
to 1467 over the same period. Present
index is still 14 p.c. below the peak.
“Equilibrium” was the word Otto
Niemeyer put into our mouths at the
beginning of the slump, and equilibrium
is just as important to-day. We are obvi-
ously in better balance to face a setback
than we were in 1930. Government
finance and taxation, as usual, are the
most unwieldy items.
Caution and commonsense are indi-
cated and, if practised, on the Stock Ex-
changes good shares will still be good a
year hence.
On these pages is published a list of
prices for 30 leading Australian invest-
ment stocks, including two Barriers,
Electrolytic Zinc and Mt. Lyell. The
period covered, in irregular but significant
steps, is from March 16, 1937, to last
week. The fluctuating prices are in-
structive in the market’s waxing and
waning enthusiasm for various stocks.
Bank shares, Cinderellas of the list, are
again relegated to almost bottom place
because of low returns and the uncertain
political and economic outlook. Brewery
stocks have held up well, but on the
whole have weakened. Pastorals, be-
cause of lower wool quotations, have
naturally slumped heavily. Steamship
issues are the curly-headed children of
the list; Adelaide Steam is well repre-
sentative. Gas scrip is regaining the
popularity it held during the early re-
covery years (when a stiff premium was
being paid for any income that looked
reliable); newspaper shares have fallen
notably (Melb. “Herald” especially);
and scrip in the Kraft-paper combine is
for the present unpopular, though A.P.M.
was one of the sounder investments dur-
ing the slump. Australasian Paper and
Cumberland remain among the more
interesting stocks on the list, in spite of
the £60,000 p.a. now required to pay
pref. divs. in the working co. Cement
shares are generally better now than
15 months ago ; Tobaccos, 8.H.P., 8.P.,
G. J. Coles, Myer, Mauri Bros, and
Yarra Falls were all down last Satur-
day. Gordon and Gotch ords. nave Kept
very firm, and Henry Jones scrip is
higher than a year ago.
* * * *
Drug Houses shares (B. 15/6/’3B)
firmed still further, to 255. 3d., last week.
The return is 5.2 p.c.. on a 6| p.c. div.
basis. A good business is still being
done by the amalgamated enterprises.
* * * *
Prestige, the big Melbourne hosiery
and lingerie concern, has shown a heavy
drop in its profits—they fell by £14,322
to £10,969. In order to pay p.c. (10
p.c. in 1936-37) to the ords., reserves have
had to be drawn on for £5250. Dis-
organisation while a new full-fashioned
hosiery plant was being installed, coupled
with increased costs for raw materials
and labor, are blamed for the lower
profit. However, as turnover was greater
than in the previous year, and price-
cutting in the trade isn’t mentioned, the
position seems to be one that can be
overcome. The directors view the future
with confidence.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Goldsbrough, Mort’s earnings to 31/3/ ”38
were £191,343, against £206,669. A special tax
provision of £38,000 was made.
Cocks Eldorado (gold-dredging) shares kept
actively high at 19s. It is a profitable and
promising concern.
Dullness was evident throughout the share-
lists. Uncertainty was the keynote. A sharp
but temporary setback seems to be looked for,
and on Saturday the sharpness was well in
evidence.
Bank shares were a shade firmer towards the
end of the week.
Prestige ords. sold at 12s. after announce-
ment of the lower profit and div. The scrip
is well held.


March
1937
April Oct.
Nov.
Jan.
Feb.
-1938-
Mar.
May
J unc
16.
29.
26.
26.
13.
17.
18.
26.
17.
Bank of N.S.W. ..
£37.9
£38.5
£34.2
£33.1
£33.7
£32.6
£31.7
,£32
£32
National Bank ..
Carltoa Brewers
£8.0
Ml-
£7.9
63/6
£7.6
65/6
£7
61/6
£7.2
66/6
£7.2
67/6
£7
65/-
£6.6
66/6
£6.6
65/
22/9
53/3
27/
27/-
34/-
53/-
£7.5
20/9
93/6
26/-
26/9
26/6
25/6
26/-
23/6*
24/6
23/-
Tooth ... ..57/-
Goldsbrough, Mort 39/6
Wincheombe .. 36/6
Adelaide Stearti .. 32/6
58/3
39/-
36/6
32/6
54/9
34/6
33/6*
32/6
52/9
30/9
30/6
30/9
55/9
32/6
32/6
33/3
55/-
31/-
31/3
34/-
54/6
30/9
39/6
33/-
55/3
30/6
28/6
34/3
52/3
£7.5
20/9
93/3
31/6
34/-
Q'tand insurance 60/9
Aus. Gas “A” £7.2
Associated News .. 24/3
60/-
£7.3
23/7
90/-
56/-
£7.5
23/6
92/6
57/6
£7.3
23/-
85/-
57/6
£7.4
23/3
94/-
54/-
£7.5
22/4
94/6
-''0 1-
£7.3
21/6
93/3
Australasian Paper 39/-
Australian Cement 31/6
35/-
31/6
33/6*
31/6
31/-
32/-
33/3
33/-
32/3
33/6
31/3
32/-
29/9
32/9
British Tobacco
53/-
50/-
48/6
49/9
50/3
50/-
48/3
48/3
46/6
Broken Hill Prop.
91/3
81/3
66/3*
60/-
64/6
61/9
60/6
60/6
56/6
Bums, Philp
80/-
73/-
58/3*
54/-
55/9
41/9
54/-
55/-
53/6
52/-
44/6
45/-
42/6
41/-
42/-
43/-
40/-
38/9
F.leclro. Zinc ord.
66/6
57/6
52/3
45/-
50/3
46/6
44/6
38/9
34/
Fairymcad
r, 1 Grtles
39/3
£5.3
37/6
£52
32/6
£4.7
32/6
£3.9
36/-
£4.3
35/-
£3.9
34/9
£4
33/3
£4.1
33/6
£4.1
52/6
54/6
52/-
52/9
53/-
53/-
54/-
52/-
H tones
46/-
46/9
50/3-
48/-
49/9
49/3
50/-
48/9
47 / 6
Melb. “Herald”
74/6
7)/-
66/-
61/-
67/6
64/-
63 /6
54/6
>7/-
75/-
74/-
68/6
68/-
68/6
73/6
70/-
69/-
68/-
Mycr (Melb.)
38/-
43/-
37/-
42/-*
34/6
40/-
31/-
38/3
35/-
39/3
34/-
37/9
32/6
37/3
29/6
38/3
30/9
38/-
Nortli Broken Hill 89/3
70/9
57/3
50/3
57/6
51/-
50/-
42 / -
36 /
Rrnkcn Hill South 58/-
46/9
41/-
35/6
37/6
33/-
32/3
28/-
24/-
Mount Lyell
52/6
45/3
38/6
31/9
34/-
30/3
29/6
23/-
22 /9
“My V-8s doing iho work <if
trucks costing £2OO more!
mm
wm.
1
FORD V-8 30-CWT. TRUCK —Two-tonner with
dual rear wheels also available. 134 or 157 in.
wheelbase. Body sizes 114 in. x 78 in. and
150 in. x 78 in. respectively. Fully enclosed
steel cab with safety glass all round. Oil
bath air cleaner.
m
FORD V-8 HEAVY-DUTY TIPPER with "G-LONG"
HYDRAULIC HOIST. 134 or 157 in. wheelbase.
Capacity up to 4 yds. Oil bath air cleaner.
Heavy-duty auxiliary springs. "G-Long" hoist,
operated from cab, has normal lilt capacity
of 4 tons and liberal margin of overload.
Operators throughout Australia claim—and get—
superlative performance from their V-8 Trucks.
Record sales in 1937—including 55% increase in
Ford V-8 3-Ton Truck sales alone—are proof of
V-8 efficiency. Ford V-8 has been proved the best
engine in all types of service. Developing 170 ft.
lbs. torque it has ample power for heavy-duty
truck work and, with a choice of correct rear axle
ratios, it also gives highest operating efficiency
at lowest operating cost for 30-cwt. and 2-ton
payloads.
In addition to the V-8 engine, other expensive,
quality, truck features such as full torque tube
drive and radius rods; full-floating rear axle with
straddle-mounted pinion; centriforce clutch; the
use of 42 ball and roller bearings throughout—
combine to give value far beyond the price to
Ford V-8 Trucks.
Special equipment, also, has been developed exclusively for
Ford V-8 Truck models. This includes: "G-Long" underbody
hydraulic hoist for Tipping Trucks—a precision-built hoist to
handle bodies ,up to 4 yds. Power logging winches operated
from the power take-off enabling the timber haulier to load
his own logs. Factory-built, steel-bearer semi-trailers with
trays up to 24 ft. x 7 ft., etc.
Before you buy any truck, check and compare features and
tyre equipment of the Ford V-8. Ask your Ford Dealer to give
you details of typical V-8 operating costs. Arrange an "on-the-
job" test—with your own driver and loading over your own
routes. Easy and convenient purchase terms available.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA Pty. Ltd. (Inc. in Vic.)
F265.24K
In last week’s dead-as-mutton market
for base-metal scrip, North shares tell
to 355. 6d., Souths to 245. 6d. There are
some who say Norths should be at least
375. when Souths are at 245. 6d., and it
seems right enough, too. But smaller-
priced scrip usually falls less heavily than
larger-priced issues; and the share-
market is still bamboozled on the matter
of divs. to be expected from each co.
This aspect was dealt with in B. 26/5/ 38.
North scrip seems decidedly better buy-
ing at present prices, but Zinc Corp. ords.
at 655., cum ss. div., seem the pick
of the bunch in spite of the heavy appro-
priation (£95,000 stg.) to shaft-sinking
and special development last year.
Zinc Corp.’s earnings for 1937 may be
expressed as follows:
£stg. £stg.
Mine profit .. . • 578,242
Sundry revenue .. .. 89,026
667,268
Admin, and taxes .. 139,359
Net profit • • • • 527,909
Shaft dev. .. • • • • 95,000
Available profit 432,909
The net profit (£527,909 sterling, after
allowing £25,000 for special defence
taxes) is equal to £660,000 (Aust.). The
profits were earned with lead and spelter
at the sterling prices shown in the first
column of the following table: —.
Five Months,’
1937. 1.938.
Lead .. . . £23 6s. Id. £l5 10s. 4d.
Spelter .. .. 22 6s. lid. 14 2s. sd.
The second column shows how-heavily
the metals have dropped since. Last
week lead was around £l3 10s., spelter
near £l2 10s. •
South’s production for the first 49
weeks (approx.) of the current term are
here compared with results for 48 weeks
of 1937:
Lead,* Silver,* . Spelter,*
Tons. Ounces. Tons.
1937 (48 weeks) .. 44,927 1,567,983 32,719
1938 (49 weeks) .. 48,139 1,866,850 37,377
* Excluding zinc in lead concentrates and lead
and silver in zinc concentrates.
North’s figures:
Lead,* Silver,* Spelter,*
Tons. Ounces. Tons.
1937 (47 weeks) .. 53,296 2,977,154 34,901
1938 (47 weeks) .. 55,845 3,103,641 37,347
* Excluding zinc in lead concentrates and lead
and silver in zinc concentrates.
It is lead content of-Barrier ores that
is most profitable at the moment. Zinc
Corp. ore carries the most lead, followed
by North, then South.
* ❖ * *
In spite of its shipping interests, main-
stay of the business, ords. in Howard
Smith have come back to 20s. At the
moment other shipping concerns have
the firmest sharemarket support of all
investments stocks. The Howard Smith
concern, of course, also has large share-
holdings in Broken Hill Prop., colliery
and cement concerns; not long ago
the portfolio was as follows:
Australian Steamships • • * >849,990
Caledonian Collieries . . | 869,542 ord.
Invincible Colliery .. 65,791
B.H.P 217,509
Australian Sugar 155,704
Southern Portland Cement j -150001 ord
Southern Blue Metal . . ' 50,000
In its last, term Howard Smith’s net
earnings represented just .over 6.5 p.c.
on ord. capital, and a 5 p.c. div. was
paid. On a 20s. basis the return is 5
p.c.
* * * *
Oil shares danced to a jingling tune
last week.. Taranaki, which is interested
in N.Z. Petroleum (the co. searching for
oil near the seepages found 30 miles
from Gisborne), was the most lively
stock; activity has all followed the
Vacuum Oil Co.’s taking of a £125,000
interest in the working co. and the an-
nouncement of early drilling operations.
Oil Search, which has its own separate
interests in Papua, Roma (Q.) and
(through Drillers, Ltd.) at Mulgoa
(N.S.W.), has klso a shareholding in
N.Z. Petroleum ; so while Taranaki scrip
ran up from 7s. to 15s. over the past
six or seven weeks, Oil Search lifted
from 6s. to Bs. (for a time), coming back
to 7s. 3d. later last week (when Taranaki
closed at 13s. Id.). Oil Search is reputed
to have its own private negotiations on
with “overseas interests” concerning its
Papuan property; but so far as this is
concerned some shareholders are turning
over in their minds that line of Kip-
ling’s—
If you can wait, and not grow tired of
waiting....
Still, it was also a long wait for Tara-
naki holders before something definite was
arranged—if that is anything to go by.
Papuan Apinaipi, newest of the New
Guinea oil ventures, is going on quickly
with its job of drilling for oil in Papua,
and this page so far hasn’t heard of
“overseas negotiations” in this case.
Scout-drilling is proceeding on the Oiapu
structure in preparation for boring with
a full-sized rig. It is intended to bore
to 5000 ft. Gas and light showings of
oil have been met with at less than 500 ft.
Apinaipi scrip has been firmer lately
around 6s. 6d.
, * * * *
Greater Union Theatres and its sub-
sidiaries, Cinesound Productions, British
Empire Films and National Theatre
Supplies, fared as follows over the 18
months to Dec. 31 last:
Cine-
G.U.T. sound. B.E.F. N.T.S.
Profit. Loss. Loss. Loss.
Year, 30/6/’37 .. £21,060 £5254 £IV7%
6 Months, Loss. Profit. Profit. Loss.
31 /12/’37 .. £14,449 £z/o6 t/ u r
The unprofitable partnership with Hoyt’s
(through General Theatres) was dissolved
as from Jan. 1. For three months there-
after the paralysis epidemic affected
earnings. The chief problem, however,
according to chairman N. B. Rydge, is
suitable film supplies; G.U.T. isn’t get-
ting its fair share of better-class films,
and “is facing a film monopoly.” Bank
overdraft, now £340,947, will stand in
the way of divs. even when profits are
earned.
Amalgamated Pictures, shareholder in
G.U.T., has spent £14,000 on Melbourne
Majestic, with reported improvement to
trade. West’s, owner of the Olympia
Theatre, Adelaide, and holder of a four-
fifths interest in the King’s, Wellington
(M.L.), is to spend “up to £40,000” re-
conditioning its Adelaide house. This
theatre is leased to G.U.T. until 1941
at a weekly rental of £53 17s. 6d., plus
rates and taxes. The lease is to be
extended to 10 years on similar terms.
plus 8 p.c. p.a. on the additional capital
outlay. The M.L. theatre brings in
£624 a year.
•$: * * %
Australian Paper Manufacturers prefs.
(6 p.c.), once up to above 265. in Mel-
bourne, were changing hands at 245. 6d.
last week. They yield 4.9 p.c. at the
latest figure, which compares with 5 p.c.
from General Motors-Holden’s 6 p.cs.,
5.1 p.c. from Myer 9 p.cs., 4.3 p.c. from
“Herald” 6| p.cs., 4.3 p.c. from British
Tobacco 6| p.cs., 5 p.c. from Goodyear
8 p.cs., 4.3 p.c. from Nestle 8 p.cs., 5 p.c.
from David Jones 1\ p.cs., and 6.9 p.c.
from Associated News 7 p.cs. Gordon
and Gotch 8 p.cs. return 4.6 p.c. Where
well-covered prefs. with a low nominal
rate of interest can be bought near par
to give a yield nearly as good as a higher-
interest-bearing (and higher-priced) issue,
the low-rate stock is generally preferable,
because in the event of a winding-up or
repayment of capital the pref. share-
holders are entitled only to a return of
their par value. Hence the attractions,
to those who like prefs., of Australian
Paper Manufacturers 6 p.c. prefs. at 245.
6d. They have a backing of 58s. 9d. a
share on written-down book values, and
earnings last term were nearly 31 times
their annual requirements.
*■■ * * *
In February and March this year
British exports were lower in value than
for the corresponding months of 1937.
In the March quarter of 1937 imports
exceeded exports by £90,100,000 sterling ;
in the same period of 1938 the debit rose
to £108,600,000. The export trade is
the most unsatisfactory obvious feature
of Britain’s economy. But it is partly
traceable to other disturbing features,
chief of which is the rising cost of manu-
facture in Britain, which has been grow-
ing in spite of the unsettling influences
in overseas markets to which the Old
Country exports. A ray of brightness in
the situation is the gradual lowering oi
the cost of living ; the Ministry of Labor
index reached a peak of 160 at Christ-
mas-time, bht has since fallen to 154, the
first downward movement in this stub-
born item since June, 1936.
* * * *
Australian factories are better equipped
to meet any possible compulsory cur-
tailment of imports than they were when
the 1930 slump struck. In steel, steel-
tubes, galvanised-iron, wire-netting, alloy
steels, etc., the expansion has been most
marked; electrical gear and lighting
bulbs are made in large quantities; in
women’s hosiery the spread of activity
has been so wide and efficient that there
is a threat of overproduction. Right
through the industries the trend towards
the inevitable self-sufficiency is most
defined; Australia has to have factories
or go on short rations every time our
export income fades, as it is showing a
decided tendency to do now.
Generally weaker, with sharper falls.
* Ex rights.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Czech Peril.
1“S. M. Herald” in a leader (14/6/’3B) criticising
Mr. Chamberlain for not having been “sufficiently
blunt” over the Czechoslovakian foment made the
equally preposterous comment: “In point of fact, there
was no genuine Sudeten German grievance until
Hitlerism arose to power and Nazi propaganda fomented
it.” Just how preposterous that suggestion is, England’s
foremost writer on foreign affairs, J, L. Garvin, makes
clear in this (condensed) London “Observer” article, in
which he reviews the whole dangerous performance of
various parties—including sabre-rattling newspapers—
during the recent false crisis, shows the inflammable state
of the situation to-day and indicates how Britain is being
(orced further into never-intended commitments.]
The most dangerous question in Europe has
entered upon one of those historic phases of disturb-
ance which must end in a memorable decision whether
by peace or war. It looks like reaching its most critical
point almost certainly within the next three or four
months. During that period so much of human
destiny will waver in these scales that we dare not
take our eyes from them for a moment.
The recent exaggerated agitations began with
rumors of extensive German movements near the
frontier. It is now fairly admitted on the British side
—though not in Moscow —that the Czech report of an
intended coup by the German Army was totally
unfounded.
Yet what was the version spread? A flood of
loose and mischievous talk was ’ unloosed. It was
said that the firmness of British warnings had thwarted
German aggression. No travesty could have been
more foolish and more wicked. It is not easy to
measure the irritation and resentment created in Ger-
many, where most of the good resulting from Lord
Halifax’s visit to Berlin has been already undone. If
further diplomatic exchanges on the Czech question
are to be accompanied by this sort of braggart vamp-
ing the result must be fatal to peace.
• To compare the facts with the travesty should
be a sobering exercise for any responsible mind.
Deep and stubborn are the historic roots of the
business. For six centuries, up to the Versailles sys-
tem, the Bohemian Germans—who are the bulk of
those called the Sudeten Deutsch —had never been
severed from the Austrian Germans. They were
virtually one people. The Paris treaties wrenched
them apart, despite their protests. For centuries the
Sudeten Deutsch had been leading members of a great
empire. It was certain they never would accept being
reduced to the position of second-class citizens under
Czech superiority. To them it is an alien and hated
yoke.
From the first they have claimed self-government
and equal racial rights. Their movement in this sense
is no such recent Nazi manufacture as common
ignorance supposes, but dates from long before the
rise of Hitlerism. It was another of the absolute cer-
tainties that their claims would have to be considered
when the Reich revived. After 20 years this is what
has happened. For them the Anschluss meant the
delivery of their Austrian brethren from a degraded
status, and the signal for their own emancipation.
The recent false crisis arose when the Czech
Government communicated to London and Paris its
lurid account of a German military threat on the
Saxon frontier. Without waiting for verification,
Prague proceeded to carry out its own plan of mili-
tary counter-measures. This plan took the extreme
form of partial mobilisation —a resort, as everyone
knows, which is always liable to challenge an oppo-
site movement of the same kind, and is usually a
preliminary of war. Between 80,000 and 100,000
reservists were called up. Taken as it was upon
what has since turned out to be an insufficient ground
of fact, we in this country will do well to realise the
hazard and risk of the step.
Some later and larger stroke of prior mobilisa-
tion, effected on the strength of unverified allegations
without the knowledge of the Government, Parlia-
ment and people of this country, might bring an
immediate German answer; and so within a mere
couple of days might hurry the British Empire and
the world into immeasurable catastrophe. This was
just how it happened at the end of July, 1914. We
should either have some control over such events or
take no responsibility for those who precipitate them.
There was no excuse for the whooping about a
mythical British diplomatic victory over sinister Ger-
man plans. It was a fling of criminal levity. There
is no excuse for the opposite sort of boasting by
Moscow and its Communist agents everywhere day
after day. While allowing no credit to Mr. Neville
Chamberlain, whom they load with abuse, they pro-
claim that a German conspiracy of aggression was
beaten by the armed defiance of the Czechs, backed
by the certainty of Russian and French support able
to drag Britain in its wake. If there are incendiary
passions among the extremists on the Nazi side, we
see what firebrand forces are at work on the other
side.
In these circumstances it may be of life and death
concern for peace that if we speak earnestly at Berlin
we should speak as plainly as possible both at Prague
and Paris.
The lack of airrparity has committed us with
France to an extent far beyond our formal engage-
ments. British policy assumes that if peace is shat-
tered on this business we shall be brought into the
war. Though we are no partners to the Soviet Pacts
we may be fully engaged by the consequences. Public
opinion little realises the degree to which we are
already involved.
Herr Hitler has every reason for holding his hand
while the internal situation in Czechoslovakia develops
of itself. On our side the momentous and even dire
responsibility of British policy will sbon pivot on the
nature of the advice tendered to Prague. If the Czechs
are encouraged by the belief that Britain, as well as
France and Russia, will be compelled to support them
whatever they do, they never will make sufficient
concessions to the Sudeten Germans. The two chief
races argue with their backs turned to each other.
One looks to Moscow, the other to Berlin. At present
this is an abyss.
The position of the Sudeten Germans is equality
or secession—autonomy or disruption. To say “Yes”
or “No” to that is going to be the crux of British
policy and the execrable dilemma of the British people.
“Czechoslovakia” never ought to have been created
by the overreaching folly of Versailles. It never can
be maintained either by peace or war unless it is
transformed into another Switzerland, based upon
equality and neutrality. Whether the British Empire
is to be staked upon some intermediate and impotent
formula remains to be seen. Twenty years after the
whole miserable medley is the Nemesis of a false
Peace.
Britain Trusts Ireland.
[One of the great practical achievements of Chamber-
lain policy is assessed in this “Sunday Express” article
by Clifford Alexander.]
Irish newspapers have called this peace pact the
greatest step for peace taken by Britain since the time
of Cromwell. Everyone in the British Empire should
understand not only the printed words of this agree-
ment but the story written between the lines.
It does not merely settle the question of Ireland’s
sovereignty over three of its own ports. It ends a
bitter economic war which threatened to extinguish
Irish agriculture. It settles the question of the Irish
land annuities —the money Eire was paying in return
for money loaned by Britain before the war to enable
Irish peasants to buy their land. That dispute cost
Eire £48,000,000 —more than one and a half years’
revenue.
Few who have not been to Ireland understand
what the economic war has meant to the countryside.
Can you imagine what it is in a small country
to kill 200,000 young calves in a single year? The
effect on the country was so profound that the Gov-
ernment had to pay 10s. for every skin to avert a
crisis.
Can you imagine what it means in a country of
2,900,000 people to lose 100,000 of its young people
in three years? That was the number who emigrated
from the ruined countryside to Britain.
Nothing seemed to stand between the Irish farmer
and ruin at one time. Eire tried to win both German
and French markets for her agricultural products. She
failed dismally—Germany, for instance, would not
give her more than a one-in-three ratio in the exchange
of the products of the two countries.
Added to the burden of the farmers’ lost trade
was laid the burden of the bounties —the money De
Valera paid on each Irish beast sent to Britain to help
the farmer pay the duty and keep some portion of
the export trade. This bounty was £1 15s. per head.
The export bounties cost Eire roughly two million
pounds a year—one-thirteenth of the Budget. The
economic drain of the bounty grew more and more
obnoxious to the ordinary Irish citizen year by year.
As to the defence position, Eire is taking over
three ports—Berehaven in Bantry Bay, Lough Swilly
in the north, Cobh (or Queenstown) in the south. She
will man them. She will replace the garrison of 700
British soldiers at Cobh. What is more important, she
will modernise them. All three stations are obsolete.
De Valera has undertaken to spend at large sum on
them.
The defence position is exceedingly interesting.
De Valera has announced emphatically that there is
no secret defence understanding between his country
and this. He has declared that the Government will
in no circumstances allow Eire to be used as a base
of attack by a foreign Power against this country.
So far so good. But suppose another country
comes with armed forces. Are the Irish going to keep
their word to the extent of repulsing the base-seekers?
And if they do that, how could Britain stand aside
and not help them?
But however that may be, there is no doubt that
Eire is a happier country to-day than it has been
for hundreds of years. There were spontaneous exhibi-
tions of joy when the news came of the end of the
economic war. Ten million pounds had to be paid
in a lump sum as a composition in settlement of the
annuities. It was raised by a loan. The loan was over-
subscribed in the space of a few days.
The whole thing has been accomplished with the
utmost goodwill on both sides. The explanation is
that De Valera is a changed man. In the past few
years he has made personal acquaintance with many
of the British Government personalities. His attitude
has gradually undergone a profound change. De
Valera astonished his countrymen by his almost pro-
British attitude in recent statements.
But there is more to it than that. There is more
than £ s. d. in the warmth of feeling in Ireland towards
Britain. The sudden change of feeling in Eire is
because we have trusted her. We have trusted her
with three ports of vital strategic importance. We
have never trusted her before in history.
Trifles Our Overlook.
(Condensed from a London “National Review’’ article
by Victor Wallace Germains.)
Though the problem of securing our superiority
in a war is to-day substantially the same as in 1914,
the conditions under which we may be forced to
attempt its solution are infinitely more onerous and
complex.
In 1914 the threat to British sea-power came only
from Germany ; now we have the rise of the Japanese
Navy to consider. Needless to dwell upon the causes
which have led to our present friction with Japan.
Those elements of the press which did their best to
destroy our traditional friendship with Italy also
worked to do the same thing in the case of Japan.
But leaving sentimental issues on one side, we must
face the issue that, if Japan ends her war with China
victoriously, this is going to add vast, wealthy terri-
tories to the Japanese Empire, increasing Japan’s power
to engage in a naval competition, whilst rendering
this increasingly vital for the purpose of safeguarding
her interests. However friendly our attitude to Japan,
we cannot leave our Far Eastern possessions, with
Australia, New Zealand and India, at the mercy of
a superior Japanese fleet.
It would be Utopian to believe that German
diplomacy would make no effort to exploit the situa-
tion thus created. It has already done so. Thus we
must face the prospect that, if war comes, we may
find Germany and Japan in alliance. This would
mean that, unlike 1914, which was, fundamentally, a
“one-front” war, the British Empire would have to
fight a “two-front” war. We should have two main
theatres of war; in the Far East, predominantly
naval; in Europe, predominantly military.
Between these two main theatres would come the
Mediterranean. The Anglo-Italian Agreement has
ended a policy of pinpricks, and gives reason to hope
that in the event of an attack upon France Italy would,
at least, remain neutral. But, in any case, the Medi-
terranean is no longer a vital element in British Im-
perial strategy. It is a matter of the Suez Canal. Big
battleships, which would be needed for a war in the
Far East, could not use this route anyhow; no ship
can use it with a displacement exceeding 14,000 tons.
This does not imply that our interests in the Medi-
terranean are negligible. But we must avoid splitting
up our forces, and being, in consequence, weak every-
where. We have evacuated the Mediterranean at other
periods of our history. It is unlikely that Italy will
join any hostile combination against us, but if she
does we should have to leave the Mediterranean to
the French Navy, with, at most, a small British con-
tingent.
What the Mediterranean has lost in strategic
significance, the Cape route has gained. It is the very
spinal cord of our Empire. But what if South Africa
chooses, in event of war, to proclaim itself neutral?
No one familiar with the political situation will regard
this as “fantastic.” If so, what is going to happen with
regard to our naval “base at Simonstown and else-
where? We must have an alternative base to fall back
upon. The surrender of British naval bases at Cork
and other points must also be considered. All’s going
to be well if Mr. de Valera keeps to his bargain. But
what is going to happen if he lacks the power to
do so?
The position with regard to India is even more
unsatisfactory. We have given India “democracy,”
with the result that nearly all the Legislatures produced
under the system are anti-British, and engaged in what
has been aptly described as a sub-war, i.e., a state of
affairs in which all the legal rights granted to protect
the individual against tyranny and injustice are twisted
and distorted to protect those engaged in fostering
and fomenting armed revolt against the constitutional
authorities. The real truth of what is happening in
India is kept concealed from the public by the press,
but the army, British and native, is the only element
Anti-jitters Serum
“People are apt to think that, with all this
arming, the Government is expecting a war soon.
The exact contrary is the case.”
—Mr. Chamberlain.
There should be no hesitation in dealing drasti-
cally with scaremongers. Never was there a moment
when it was more necessary in this and other coun-
tries to restrain embittered feelings and to keep cool
heads. There is no reason for war, and no likelihood
of war, unless some explosive incident occurs which
jerks people out of the realm of reason into that of
passion, rivalry and hatred. There could be no
profit in war, except indeed to the enemies of society
—the anarchists, who see visions of empire amid the
ruins of civilisation.—London “Times.”
Troubled by alternating visions of war and slump
Stock Exchange dealers have for some weeks steadily
marked down the majority of stocks and shares.
According to the “Bankers’ Magazine,” the aggregate
value of 365 representative stocks declined from
£6,621,737,000 on April 19 to £6,195,188,000 on May 19,
a loss of £126,519,000 during the month.
—Manchester “Guardian.”
“The use of language which implies that war
is inevitable cannot be too strongly deprecated.
Any widespread indulgence in such language, or in
the mood of mind which it expresses, may become
itself a contributory cause of war. It may uncon-
sciously increase the momentum of tendencies
making for war. It would be more helpful to
the cause of peace to say: ‘War can be, and must
be, avoided.’ One of the surest ways of avoiding
war is to keep the public nerve steady. What
we call tension is often only another way of
describing rattled nerves.”
—The Archbishop of Canterbury.
There will be conscription if war comes. Why
does the Government boggle at the word “conscrip-
tion”? It is surely the democratic process that ALL
fit men should defend their country.
What does conscription mean to YOU?
This. That you will be summoned from your
home, your family, your comfortable bed and warm
good meals; that you will drill, arm, march, fight;
stand up to the hocks in mud, feel terror, fury, bore-
dom in the trenches, die perhaps in indescribable
pain. Such is war.
If our nation is challenged we must face it. How
do you feel about Czechoslovakia?
—London “Daily Express.”


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . • £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited:
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial-Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
USE COSSACKS FOR
COUNTRY WEAR ....
use ABBEY’S for quality
A fitting companion for the
man on the land is this
Abbey Working Cossack.
Strongly made with heavy
double sole and leather
lining and an upper of tough
wearing calf, it’s built to last.
The Comfort, of course, is
the same as any Abbey
Model . . . perfect.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good
Shoe.”
Abbey Shoes
316 George St., 224 Pitt St..
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
Made in Black and Brown Calf in full
and half sizes.
Prices: Black Calf 27/6
Brown Calf ...... 27/6
Also order a tin of English Dubbin to
keep Working Boots soft and supple.
Price 2/6.
which stands solidly behind British rule. Can anyone
believe that any foreign Power, at grips with the British
Empire, is going to neglect the fruitful field for sedi-
tion and outrage provided by India?
As to naval strength, the old Two-Power standard
is not enough. To get the same crushing superiority over
Germany as we had in the last war means two keels
to one, plus superiority in types, and we must have
a superiority of at least three to two over Japan.
In regard to our Air Force, there is no Reason
to believe Germany superior to England and France
combined ; the probabilities are that she is somewhat
inferior, alike in numbers and types of machines.
Our army continues to be the weakest element
in our general defensive organisation. Few people
will believe in the power of a totalitarian air attack
to knock this country out of a war in the course of
a few days, a doctrine at one time popular. Such an
attack would increase public determination to carry
on the war instead of inducing blind panic and
cowardly surrender. But this cuts both ways. If
Germany cannot knock us out by such means, we
cannot do it to her either. We would be forced to
raise an Expeditionary Force, as in 1914.
But our army is in peace an atrophied, puny
growth, owing to the public dislike of conscription —
too small to give any help to our allies on any scale
worth talking about, at least in the opening phases
of a war. The Territorial Army is a matter of half-
grown youngsters parading with weapons they don’t
know how to use for the purpose of creating an illusion
of military preparation which does not really exist. To
convert any Territorial division into a genuine fighting
force, we should need first of all to replace boys by
grown men, and then to give them nine months of
intensive training under thoroughly competent in-
structors. The Regular Army cannot cover its own
needs with regard to officers. Thus, if war comes, it
means falling back upon retired officers and n.c.os.,*
“dugoutsand most of these are hopelessly rusty,
even if they possess the capacity to lead and instruct
others’
Of course, the “scientific thinkers” will have a
whole series of paper projects up their sleeves, guar-
anteed painlessly to solve the problem at a moment’s
notice. But these people are a hopeless tribe of geese.
The hard, brutal truth is that all such schemes are
makeshifts. The only thing that can give us military
preparation on the scale needed is conscription. If
war comes, it is going to be fought out not only in
the air and on the sea, but on the land as well; suc-
cess in the one or other element will not be enough ;
we must be successful in all three.
A Canal Through Europe.
(Condensed from an article by London “Times” Berlin
correspondent .)
Field-Marshal Goring, as Commissioner for the
Plan, has announced that the Rhine-Main-
Danube Canal, a waterway which will link the North
Sea with the Black Sea and provide cheap transport
through the heart of Europe, is to be completed by
1945/ When the first string of barges completes the
passage through Europe from the coast of Holland to
the coast of Rumania a dream which has exercised the
imaginations of men for more than 1000 years will
have become a reality.
The conception of a great inland waterway,
formed by linking the Rhine through its tributary
the Main to the Danube, occurred to Charlemagne,
who, at the end of the eighth century, inaugurated
work on a canal. It remained for King Ludwig of
Bavaria, more than ten centuries later, to construct
the first practical link between Main and Danube.
His “Ludwig’s Canal,” built between 1836 and 1848,
link’s Bamberg, on the Main, to Kelheim, on the
Danube, and forms the basis of the canal now under
construction.
For the past 16 years the work has gone forward,
though so slowly that there appeared to be no prospect
of completing the project for very many years to
come. With the appearance in 1933 of the National-
Socialist regime in Germany more activity was shown
along the canal; but it was not until the union with
Austria last March that work began to be pushed
forward at its present speed.
The waterway is designed to carry river steamers
of 1200 tons. On the Danube a series of locks and
dams is to be constructed, particularly on the Austrian
stretch of the river. These will at once supply the
necessary depth and provide cheap electric power to
the industries which the Reich Government proposes
to foster along the Danube valley.
To the Reich the Rhine-Main-Danube Canal will
be a vital artery. In spite of every effort and of the
remarkable successes which have been achieved, .Ger-
many is not self-sufficient, and the time is. approaching
when the standard of living of her people must fall,
under present conditions, to a level of bare subsistence.
It is for this reason that German policy of economic
penetration in South-East Europe is now being pushed
forward relentlessly. Since the Anschluss Yugoslavia
and Hungary are neighbors of the Reich and can
deliver their produce to her direct. The new canal
will be a direct link with those more distant countries
—Rumania, Bulgaria and Greece —and a safe road by
which their oil, minerals and foodstuffs may travel
to the heart of Germany.
It is realised in Germany that in the event of
war the struggle will probably go to the side which
commands the greatest resources of money and raw
materials. Of money Germany has very little ; but
with the Danubian countries firmly enclosed in the
German economic sphere she need fear no blockade
from the west and is assured that her vital needs will
be supplied In peace and if necessary in war the new
canal will be one of the cornerstones of Germany’s
economic structure.
S’Africa’s Drift from Empire.
[The writer of the article here condensed from
London “National Review” for June considers the South
African political scene, with special reference to last
month’s general elections, from the strongly Imperialist
viewpoint.]
In the South African general election there were
three parties—the Government party, which has pur-
sued a policy of gradual extinction of Imperial ties ;
the Nationalist party, which desires to see a republic
proclaimed immediately; and the Dominion party,
the only group standing for maintenance of the Im-
perial connection. There are also tiny Independent
and Labor parties, but these do not affect the main
line of policy in South Africa, which is very simple.
The issue is the same as in the days of President
Kruger and Joseph Chamberlain. It is whether or
not South Africa is to remain within fhe British
Empire and whether British ideals of justice and pro-
gress are to disappear from the sub-continent.
The Government and Nationalist leaders have
no real quarrel on policy. The Nationalists would
like to get on faster with the job of cutting the painter,
and they have added frills such as anti-Semitism to
their programme, but in essentials there is nothing to
choose between the Government and them from the
Empire view. General Hertzog, who now enters upon
his fourth term as Prime Minister, has undeviatingly
pursued a policy of separation from the Empire and
of oppression of natives ; these are also the aims of
the Nationalist party. From the point of view of an
Empire onlooker, General Hertzog has now 137 mem-
bers behind him who are anxious, or, at any rate, will-
ing, to see South Afripa separated from the Empire.
Against this he has a group of eight members, who
may be able to get the support of the Odds and Ends.
The Baldwin Government, at the Imperial Con-
ference in 1926, greatly assisted the anti-imperial
policy of General Hertzog. The Union Jack is now
no longer the flag of the South Africans, their British
status has been altered in the Union, their kingship
has been separated from that of the Empire, and
their native legislation has approximated to that of
Herr Hitler in regard to Jews, while the vote of the
natives has been taken away. All these things should
have warned the easygoing British South African that
he was about to lose what is very dear to him.
It would have done so but for the fact that certain
businessmen felt safer in not opposing the Govern-
ment and with few exceptions the press has been in
the Government's hands. There has been such an orgy
of press misrepresentation and of political corruption
in South Africa for the last few years that the real
miracle is that any number of people should have
been found to withstand it.
The Government and its tame Britons have
made a tremendous effort to get rid of men who, in
season and out of season, showed the true issue of
policy in South Africa. The full bitterness of those
British who have abandoned their ideals was turned
on to the Dominion party during the electoral cam
paign. Our press at home, ill served and uninformed,
only knew what it was told by the South African
newspapers, and, as the city editors were not anxious
to disturb the price of Rand shares by allowing the
public here to know that the Dominion would one
day slip out of the Empire, we heard little truth about
this election.
It was, however, an important one for Great
Britain. Our Empire lifeline passes by South Africa,
and at present Simonstown is our most important
naval station on the route to India and Australia.
General Hertzog has again and again said that he
reserves the right to be neutral in any war affecting
us, and that he will have nothing to do with an
Empire defence scheme. We have, therefore, to
organise another naval base on this route as soon as
possible. It will not do to be caught napping. In a
Parliament totalling 150 members there are 137 who
are either pressing for a Republic or willing to
acquiesce in a decision to declare one, as they have
acquiesced in every measure taken up to date to lever
South Africa out of the Empire.
Can the Bombers Get Through?
o Condensed from a London “Evening Standard'’ article
by George Malcolm Thompson.)
Fear has lost contact with commonsense. Nine-
tenths of Britain’s A.R.P. plans and prepara-
tions are rubbish. A.R.P. is based on two notions.
First, that the bomber must get through. Second,
that when the bomber does get through it will cause
among the civilian population alarm to the point
where the prosecution of war becomes impossible.
Both those notions are mistaken. The bomber
need not get through if defences against air attack
are properly planned and equipped. The bomber
fears the anti-aircraft gun, and that fear is thoroughly
well founded. If you think that the anti-aircraft gun
can do nothing beyond shooting up a few shells to
burst in laughable futility, then your ideas are out
of date. You are thinking in terms of 1918 and not
of 1938.
Plenty has happened since 1918. If you doubi
it, look at Barcelona. On May 29 Franco’s raiders
tried eight times to get through to bomb that city.
And eight times they were driven back by the barrage
of shells thrown up by anti-aircraft guns.
Given modern anti-aircraft guns in adequate
numbers and plenty of up-to-date fighters, it is absurd
to assume that the bomber must get through. But
let us assume that the bomber does get through. Will
the panic be so terrible?
The panic-talk, the prophecy of terror, the visions
of frenzied mobs pouring through our streets after
an air raid are much exaggerated. They depend on
an underestimate of British character and stamina.
Generally speaking, the moral results of air raids
would be pretty much the same in Britain as in
Barcelona. A stronger determination to fight on. And,
perhaps, an angry demand for revenge.
Gas masks also play too important a part in
our plans. There will probably be no gas attack
from the air. The idea that airplanes, flying
low over our cities, will squirt clouds of deadly vapor
down upon us does not correspond to the facts of
modern war. There has been no gas attack from the
air in the Spanish war. There has been none in the
China war. The reason is not that Franco or the
Japanese fear the moral obloquy of the world. The
reason is that the anti-aircraft gun compels the air-
plane to fly so high that all question of spraying gas
is removed. It is simply not possible.
There is, of course, the other form of gas attack
—by the dropping of gas bombs. Gas bombing can
be carried out with devastating effect provided the
enemy has at his disposal thousands of airplanes and
has no other use for them: But to carry bombs suffi-
cient in number to do serious damage would be a
gigantic operation in air transport. And even if an
enemy could carry out so immense a project the
results would probably not justify him in tackling it.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
There must be something radically
wrong with Lynch Law. He was a first-
class two-year-old, and his first race as
a three-year-old was so promising that
he was taken to Caulfield for the Guineas
and backed against Ajax. But in three
efforts in ordinary company this winter
he has failed dismally.
At Rosehill on Saturday Lynch Law
beat one horse in the Dundas Handicap ;
certainly he met with interference ax bar-
rier-rise, but it wasn’t exactly serious.
Victory went to the Menangle-trained
Speardale (14 to 1). Shackle ton and
Moonray made the pace a cracker.
Arabia —backed, but evidently not quite
ready—chased them into the straight
ahead of Speardale; but the last-named
had the race won at every stage of the
final furlong. In the end he beat Shackle-
ton and Moonray rather comfortably,
with Arabia, who lugged out, a poor
fourth.
A. W. Scott, a young pastoralist, was
present to see his colors carried by
Monogram in the June Handicap.
Country Party, a stablemate of Lynch
Law, was favorite, Monogram being well
backed at fours. Monogram is a loafer,
and Parsons had to ride him hard all
the way. Approaching the home turn,
Dulcedo shot to the front, but he was
soon done with, and in the run home
Monogram outstaydd Gimme, who hung
on gamely. Mainlaw, though the outsider
of the party, was a good third, and might
have troubled Monogram with a stronger
lad in the saddle.
A.J.C. committeeman E. J. Watt’s
Normandy won the Three-year-old Han-
dicap in very impressive style. He started
at twos —a good price in view of his
close second at Randwick to Sedunum —
and chased Samurai until the Leger was
in sight, Grey Derby, a lean customer
from the north, got through on the rails,
but he was no match for ■ Normandy.
Baffler, one of Jack Leahy’s big string,
came home strongly in third place.
There were some useful-looking
youngsters in the Maiden Juvenile,
especially the Rosehill-trained Pantler, who
is owned by a Sydney businessman, “M.
Lundern.” Giant strides took him past
Baveon and Astounding in the straight,
and the stable must have cleaned up a
good parcel at fours and better. Astound-
ing, a big son of Sion, dashed to the
outside fence at the home turn. When
he settles down this colt, who is owned
by Mrs. Dolly Clayton, should more than
return the outlay on him. Exactor had
the run of the race, but can’t carry
weight.
Flamari (14 to 1), one of the outsiders
in the Parramatta Mile, put the book-
makers well ahead. A Newcastle three-
year-old, Jan, was favorite; he went
under by a head to Flamari, with Deputy
Ruler third. Electron and Red Rosebud
knocked themselves out by battling for
the lead, and Roi Sion lost his chance at
the barrier.
* * * *
Pantler, who won his first race at
Rosehill on Saturday, is a very promising
young horse. The “long ones” he began
to put in when the last furlong was
entered upon suggested staying power,
and this might be expected considering
the breeding —he is by Pantheon-Lile
Queen. Pantler is trained at Rosehill
by R. C. Stanton, who prepared Lile
Queen for her racing career.
# * * *
A bad fall in a race at Randwick for
which he had been heavily backed threw
Normandy back when a profitable season
seemed in store for his owner, E. J. Watt.
His races at Randwick and Rosehill last
week show that the colt has thoroughly
overcome the effects, and while he re-
mains in training he should be worth
considering for any handicap, up to a
mile and a quarter, for which he may
be started. Normandy is a nice-looking
colt, and will very probably improve with
racing. He traces back to Desert Gold.
Grey Derby, the runner-up to Normandy
at Rosehill, is speedy, and should be a
payable proposition if reserved for sprint-
ing.
* * * *
After the Dundas Handicap at Rose-
hill the stewards inquired into the run-
ning of Lynch Law. The owner, who
doesn’t bet, resented it, but the stewards’
action was justified by the horse’s drift
in the betting market and his wretched
showing in the race. They found there
was nothing wrong. Apropos, George
Williams, the present chairman of stipen-
diaries, contemplates retiring, although he
will carry on till February. He will be
succeeded by former chairman Jack
Higgins if the A.J.C. can get that stern
and unbending stipe; Higgins, now in
Sydney on six months’ leave, is under
contract to Royal Calcutta.
* * * *
Harris, the owner of Dutiful, now
racing in Brisbane —so far he hasn’t
shaped well there —has bought a half-
share in Spear Chief, whom Queens-
landers consider the best stayer among
the season’s three-year-olds, Avenger and
Hua included. The other half is owned by
J. B. Charlton, formerly a member of
the Q.T.C. committee, and “money
wouldn’t buy it,” he said.
* * * *
Alan Cooper is no longer in the boom
with racing reporters, but he keeps
breaking into the news. Driving jockey
Shean’s car in Kelvin Grove-road, Bris-
bane, on Saturday night, the owner of
Talking and Mala cannoned into a tram.
Driver and passengers, two young
women, had to be taken to hospital, but
none was seriously hurt.
* * *
Aurie’s Star reached Bris-
bane “ravenous” after his
2000-mile journey from Adel-
aide by motor. As he has
galloped well since, he is
fancied for the Doomben
Newmarket, for which he has
9st. 41b. It is by no means
certain that he carries weight
well, but that cannot be said
of King’s Head (9st. 41b.) or
Mohican (Bst. 131 b.). Jocular
(7st. 101 b.) has been doing
swallow-catching gallops in Sydney, but
at Warwick Farm he was beaten by a
moderate in Manilla’s Pride ; in any case,
he has a habit" of running into places.
If Thurles Lad (Bst. 71b.) can be brought
to the post fit, he will trouble all the
others, but at the week-end he was out
of sorts. Perhaps Cashman (7st. 51b.) is
the best each-way wager.
* * * *
Sensations continue to surround the
approach of the V.R.C. Grand National
meetings. Two very prominent hurdlers,
Bridge of Mar and Nevizes, went amiss
and were scratched. Pride of the Plain,
a most promising ’chaser, broke a leg
over the Flemington fences and had to
be destroyed.
Caulfield spectators on Saturday were
astounded to see Pooley Bridge, cham-
pion of timber-toppers, pulled up after
clearing the second-from-last obstacle in
the Toolambool Hurdle, for which, even
with 12st. 51b., he started a 7-to-2 favor-
ite, African (lOst.) being next in request
at fours.
When he dismounted in the straight
Fullarton imagined that “Pooley” had
broken down. To his amazement the
gelding walked back to scale without
showing any lameness. Trainer Bert
Foulsham and his patron, C. Dawson,
breeder, who race Pooley Bridge in con-
junction, were puzzled and noticeably
annoyed. Trotted in the birdcage subse-
quently the son of Ornamentation moved
with normal freedom.
Theory advanced by E. N. Wood, V.S.,
was that Pooley Bridge might have struck
himself. Whatever developments occur
the fact remains that at no part of the
race did Pooley Bridge travel like a prob-
able winner. Defeat was written on the
wall a mile from home.
Heavy support for African arose from
his fine win on the flat at Mentone three
days before. Race was run in only l|sec.
slower than record time. J. Maher kept
Bill Tasker’s neddy too far out of his
gr.ound in the first half of the journey.
Making up leeway along the railway
stretch African clouted hard. But for
this he would have been nearer than
fourth.
Spoils went to Gihnt Killer (15 to 1)
by a long neck from the reliable Wallace
Drake (eights), who is very fit. Laveur
(20 to 1) finished a moderate third.
Dakwood shaped poorly. Triteleia, last
year’s National hero, dropped out after
a brief spell of leadership. Dress Suit
showed some improvement.
Wallace Drake may have more to say
in the National than the other place-
getters. African (David-Lady Kings-
burgh) belongs to W. Burke, who has lost
the services of Bridge of Mar and
Nevizes through misadventures. David
sired a G. N. Steeple winner in Santa
Casa, and his stock seem to be natural
jumpers. Baverstock, sire of David, gave
the turf a splendid ’chaser in Sandhurst,
who carried 11st. 61b. and defeated Moss-
trooper (9st. 61b.) in the National
Steeple of 1929.
Adelaide’s big-betting owner G. W.
Badman saw his colors carried to victory
by French Gem in the Minook Two-
year-old. Sharing favoritism with Tuhi-
tarata and Lambent at 7 to 2, the Beau
Fils filly relished being ridden a waiting
race, and scored with a good deal in hand
from the 50-to-l shot Sylphide, who is
in the same stable as Ajax and may dis-
tinguish herself soon. Third money went
to Tuhitarata.
Sarno, equal favorite with Barnum at
sixes, had the Wanda Steeple won im-
mediately he wrested control from the
tearaway Sarokos. Latter is to be with-
"Do you mind if We go through?”
drawn from the National and treated to
a holiday. Sarno was succeeded by Ele-
gance (tens) and Martext (eights). All
three are in the big crosscountry event
at Flemington.
Pace set by Sarokos settled the chance
of Leaomus, who will be better suited by
utl ‘SfE
desired. Horses that fell included Ton-
gaUa (winner o( lh= A ustr alian Staple
Tonial a’occurred at firlf ence of
IS’he “gett deaf view W
galla had not raced since last August, and
may not be at his top until that month
again arrives.
' \ . ' , ' \ ■
Desert Chief, whose unexpected win
at Flemington on the previous Saturday
caused such an uproar, did punters an-
other unkind turn by capturing the Rich-
mond Handicap at 14 to 1. Skidmore
weighed out for the stallion in place of
Dewhurst, who was perfectly willing for
some other jockey to risk being hooted.
‘ *
Punishment with a buggy whip at the
commencement of track lessons has
worked wonders in Desert Chief. Nor
did Skidmore “spare the rod” when it
came to racing. Result: a three lengths
win from Demagogue (eights), with the
ready-to-bloom Aitchengee half a head
farther off at 12 to 1. Despite his good
Flemington form a fortnight before, Irv-
ing wasn’t keenly supported. He finished
in the middle of the field.
Stoic (fives) lost the Rosny Plate by
half a head to Harry Gabell’s S.A.-bred
gelding Petunia Park (eights), with the
4-to-l favorite, Othello, third. Gabell
ran third in the Cambria Welter with
Conchita, a Ronsard mare.
Favoritism in the Cambria Welter was
divided by Flying Chief, Silver Rein,
Fancifort and Lautus. After leading into
the straight and looking all over a
winner, Pine Peak (10 to 1) surrendered
in the final stride to Flying Chief. This
completed a winning double for Jack
Fryer, the trainer who brought Wotan
over from M.L. for his Melbourne Cup
triumph.
* * * *
Erua and Heroic’s Pride fought out a
thrilling finish in the Trial Hurdle at
Mentone on Wednesday. It was Erua’s
first appearance over obstacles, but he
had “schooled” well, and followers of
M. T. McGrath’s stable did not hesitate
to send him out in almost equal demand
with Roist. He belongs to J. Jameson,
a Maoriland sportsman, and carries the
same colors as Tuhitarata, whose recent
achievements in juvenile events on Vic.
courses have been pretty smart.
Musical Prince, Third Star, Burshire
and Steel Spear finished so far behind
the Trial Hurdle placegetters that none
of them is likely to line up for the
National. Dah, who is fancied for that
event to some extent, did not show up in
the second division of the Tambo Purse.
Akanree, a really good hurdler when fit,
strode along nicely for a while in the
first division.
The race in which Akanree competed
went to African (Dark Fox-Majuba’s
Daughter), a 12-to-l chance, who came
at the right end and won, running away,
from Spring Mont and Star Lover.
On Sydney courses African was known
as a tearaway customer, but Bill Tasker,
his owner-trainer, has got the son of
Dark Fox to sober down very consider-
ably, though even now the gelding has
to be mounted at his stall.
Two successive wins a few months ago
stamped African as a brilliant timber-
topper, and he won’t lack support if
produced for the National. Exploitation
of African’s speed on the flat took Men-
tone punters by surprise. Evidently that
surprise was not shared by Tasker, as he
availed himself of the services of Harold
Badger.
Rightly reputed to be a mudlark,
Trowsdale (Ronsard-Raddle) delighted
his supporters (at 9 to 4) by mowing down
the leaders in the Tambo Plate and scoring
by a neck from Glodomar, about whom
20 to 1 was obtainable. Great Eastern
(eights) finished a head behind the second
horse.
Great Legend gave an encouraging
first-up display in the Tambo Plate. He
belongs to the former Westralian Ted
Temby. Temby won the mile Macalister
Handicap for a patron with Great Feast,
another son of Great Star. The favorite,
Arnshire, and Kanupa followed Great
Feast home in close order. Shrewd
punters had a “saver” on Great Feast,
who firmed from tens to eights.
(Continued on page 32.)
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Welter: Brazandt; next,
Misnomer.
Canterbury Handicap: Mainlaw ;
next, Minnesota.
Park Stakes: Laurel G.; next,
Let Slip.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Port Phillip Hurdle: Heroic
Chief; next, Dakwood.
Point Cook Handicap: Desert
Chief; next, Demotic.
Esplanade Welter: Great Feast;
next, Beaustone.


i\ \
i*UA\
rx
3
A?
w
m
y, ‘K) ■*>,
/ t.
A j
d
A*
VI M
■im
? •:? .f /
t
«
I
ill
m
LruC
m
■npi
..
t
M
.
mmm
\\\
tiP£
\
BV
UV
■'' % M \)
#
mi
m
■ MivJb
: e
*>s
V> v"
■ft : -
♦( j*s"U/y
> V-' y K «
tf i! 1 ®lvX#
KADIOLA: Model 265. 6-valve
World Range Air Cell operated
Model 38 guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 20 gns.
Model 330. 5-valve Dual
Wave Air Cell operated Model.
Price . 33 guineas.
Other Air Cell operated Models priced
from 27 guineas.
• • •
NO
RECHARGING
OF B ATT ERI E S - N-E ED S NO
ATTENTION WHATSOEVER!
For years the man in the country has wanted a radio like this—a set especially
designed for use in districts where electric power is not available—yet every bit as
convenient as an all-electric model.
Equipped with an Ever Ready AIR CELL, instead of a troublesome accumulator,
if is the nearest thing to the "city set" ever offered the country listener,
because this new type battery needs NO RECHARGING AND NO ATTENTION
WHATSOEVER! With normal use, it delivers an even flow of current for twelve
months, and THERE IS NO FALLING OFF IN POWER until the last day of its life.
Just think what this means to you rf you live outside a power area. Radio that
you can rely on, that has no blank periods while accumulators are being recharged,
and that virtually runs itself. Practically every radio set manufacturer in Australia
now produces Air Cell operated models. See your local dealer NOW for a
demonstration.
WESTINGHOESE: (Above) Model 458.
5-valve Dual Wave Air Cell operated Model.
Price 38 guineas.
Other Air Cell operated Models from 32 gns.
TASMAI (At left) Model 585. 5-valve
Dual Wave Air Cell operated Model.
Price • 37 guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 29 guineas.
(Prices slightly higher in W.A.)
BREVILLE: (Above) Model 111. 5-valve
Triple Wave Air Cell operated Model.
Price 35 guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 31 guineas.
(1 guinea higher in Qld., S.A. and W.A.)
BANDMASTER: (At right) Model
458D8. 5-valve Worlcf Range Air Cell
operated Model 32 guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 20 guineas.
Other well-known makes of Air Cell operated Radio include:-
Batyphone, Briton, Calstan , Crammond, Croydon, Genalex, Howard,
mount, Velco, Weldon, Zenith.
—Aristocrat (E.S.M.),
Kriesler, Lekmek, Para-
STKOMBEKG - CARLSON:
Model 780. 6-valve Dual Wave Air
cell operated Model, 38J guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 28 gns.
(Prices slightly higher in W.A.)
S.T.C.: Model 523 D. 5-valve Dual
Wave Air Cell operated Model.
Price 35 guineas.
Other Air Cell Models from 20 gns.
(Prices slightly higher in Q’ld.)
Cquimted frith oh FvER READY Air-Cell


HERFS THE RIFLE!
" Sportmaster”
Remington Bolt Action Repeater .22 Calibre
This MODEL 341 has exceptionally large magazine
capacity; man-sized stock and fore-end; scientifically
shaped bolt handle; long, heavy barrel; smooth bolt
action; outstanding accuracy; conveniently located,
positive thumb safety.
Magazine holds 1 22 Short, 17 .Long or 15 Long-rifle Cartridges.
Weight about 61b.
Price, £5
Ask your dealer to show you this rifle.
For full information write to
Australian Representative, Box 686 E, G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
Built to outlast your car
Built of the finest materials to Sheffield’s highest
standards, the Renrut “QUAD” Pump will stand years
of hard usage. Its patent quadruple action provides
easy, trouble-free service—“twice the pumping in half
the time.” A real investment, it pays regularly dividends
in time and labour saving.
HUjjj
.i iilnim Turner & Bros., Ltd.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Bos 71. Melbourne. Vietori
QU^°'
iRUPp
PUMP
Prices:
Less Gauge,
65/-.
With Gauge,
70/-.
Ins and Outs
With Fingleton and Brown and Brad-
man gone for 111 in Australia’s first
attempt to catch England’s score of 658
the Australian gloom deepened, and at
stumps on the Saturday few expected the
astonishing recovery of the Australian
batting which ultimately converted what
looked like a hopelessly lost match into a
draw almost as creditable as a win.
When McCabe and Ward began again
the latter stayed no time, and Hassett
and Badcock came like water and like
wind they went. Then left-hander
Barnett, a free and attractive bat as a
rule, resolved to stick, and did so. He
made only 22, but McCabe was busy. So
much so that by the time he had decided
to call it a day and our tail-enders had
flitted past the scenery like telegraph
poles seen from an express, McCabe’s
score was 232, made in 235 minutes, and
the total 411. It was an astonishing
innings, and one that has never been
surpassed for grace and daring. A catch
by Hammond off .Verity ended the fire-
works. '
Fames (4-106) had the bowling aver-
age, but the wise ones were much im-
pressed by the leg-breaks of young
Wright, who stuck the best of them up
while taking 4-153. Verity and Sinfield
each took a wicket
Two hundred and forty-nine behind,
Australia followed on. This time things
began more cheerfully. Brown and
Fingleton had 89 up before Edrich dis-
missed Fingleton for a solid 40. Brad-
man joined Brown, and the pair began
a stand which saved the game for Aus-
tralia. The board said 259 when
Brown was caught by Paynter off Verity
for a sterling 133. McCabe followed, and
saw his skipper reach the century before
he himself went for a free 39. Brad-
man was playing astonishingly careful
cricket for him, but time was the essence
of the contract, and he was content to
break the heart of the bowling, now as
dog-tired as that of Australia was on
the Saturday. Hassett and Badcock again
failed, going to Verity and Wright for
two and five respectively, but the in-
valuable Barnett came again with a stub-
born 31, and the day was saved. At
stumps Australia had scored 427 for six
wickets, Bradman’s share being 144 n.o.
It was his thirteenth Test century, and
he now heads all other Test batsmen in
this respect, having topped Hobbs’s long-
standing figure of 12.
The wicket lasted well. Though in the
last innings the spin bowlers were get-
ting help from worn patches, the fact
that Fames could make no use of the
pitch suggests there was nothing much
wrong with it.
Verity ended with 3-99. Edrich,
Wright and Sinfield had a wicket each.
Some of the old ill-feeling apparently
still lingers at Notts. When the Austra-
lians were playing defensive cricket under
orders there was a continued outburst
of barracking, which on a couple of
occasions stopped play for a moment or
two. Only one or two of the English
papers tried to find an excuse, one of
them being a Notts journal. If the inci-
dent does nothing else it may help to
squelch the British superstition that ugly
behavior by crowds is confined to Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
“Bramall Lane”: One result of the
Notts Test is an agitation for five-day
matches. Much of the fuss is due to the
feeling that with another day England
would have scored a convincing win, but
important people are advocating the
change. One of them is Lord Hawke,
allegedly an inveterate diehard and up-
holder of the old regime, and it really
looks as if the change will be made next
time an Australian XI goes to Britain.
* * * *
The Australians went from proletarian
Nottingham and an opposition of mixed
social standing to aristocratic Lord’s and
an encounter with the Gentlemen of
England, captained by an individual who,
in a twelvemonth, has changed from
pro. to Gentleman. The wicket was an
average Lord’s one, which is not saying
much according to modern standards.
Bradman rested O’Reilly, Hassett and
McCormick, and would have liked to
spell himself. The first half-dozen
Australian batsmen got among the runs
consistently. Fingleton and Brown put
up 64 for the first wicket (Brown 30,
Fingleton 38); then came Badcock (31),
McCabe (79), Chipperfield (51) and Brad-
man (104). These last three played ex-
cellent shots, as did White, who was not
out with 42 ; all out, 397.
Meyer put up a sterling bowling per-
formance, taking 5-66, Bradman in-
cluded in the bag. Also a good batsman,
Meyer plays for Somerset, and was a star
in the Cambridge team of four years
ago. He is a slow-medium, right-hand
spinner. Brown, here with Jardine, took
3-107 with his googlies. Gibb, the
Cantab-Yorkshire ’keeper, was in fine
buckle, sending back three batsmen, all
caught.
The English innings began badly, five
wickets going for 109 ; Hammond was
among the failures. Opener Wilcox
batted solidly for 50, and Wyatt helped
with 37. Then came a fine stand by
Yardley and Valentine, who made 49
each in taking style. Brown, a mighty
smiter on his day, had that day, and
walloped the bowling to the tune of 88.
The five mentioned were the only ones
to reach double figures, and 301 was on
the board at the finish.
Ward (5-108) alternated some good
bowling with patches of horrible stuff.
McCabe and Waite each got a couple
of useful wickets.
In their second try the Australians
found themselves with two down for
189 at stumps on Thursday night; Fingle-
ton 121 and Brown 30.
Bradman did not bat. He closed the
innings at 335 after Badcock had run to
112 n.o. Waite was run out for 32,
McCabe went for five and Chipperfield
made 20. Fingleton showed, for once,
that he can force the pace.
Facing a score of 431 with three hours
to make it, the Gentlemen failed badly,
totalling only 149; Australia, by 282
runs. The cause of the trouble was
F.-Smith. In the first innings Bradman
had kept him browsing on the boundary
with the old roller horse. This time the
Victorian took 7 for 44. ’Keeper Gibb
played a stout innings for 67.
Hammond has now failed against the
tourists in four successive innings. If
there is such a thing as the law of
chances he should provide Australian
bowlers with a headache in the Test at
Lord’s.
* * * *
Lancashire engaged the attention of
the Australians at Manchester in the
fourteenth match of the tour. The Lan-
castrians, nearly always a tough propo-
sition, had a patchy season last year, and
need variety in the bowling department.
The batting, with the redoubtable
Paynter in the lead, leaves little to be
desired.
Bradman won the toss and batted.
Brown, Fingleton and the captain were
back by the dressing-room fire with only
30 runs among them, Bradman’s share
being 12. Phillipson, a right-hand medium
bowler, who got 118 wickets for the
county last season, swung the new ball
dangerously and dismissed Bradman and
Brown, the first caught in the slips by
Pollard and the second by stumper Far-
rimond. Badcock and Hassett vastly im-
proved the situation. Badcock was the
first to go—at 96, caught in the slips off
Phillipson. Chipperfield did not stay,
Phillipson getting his fourth wicket with
the help of Farrimond. Hassett was run-
ning along smoothly, and at stumps was
n.o. 118, partnered by Barnett, who had
scored 2 n.o. There were 11 extras, and
the score was 252 for five. Phillipson took
four for 85, the other wicket going to
Nutter, a newcomer to the county side.
O’Reilly, McCabe and Ward stood down.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: More than once during
the Notts Test it must have occurred to
Bradman that “it is moments like this
you need Ponsford.” It is enough to
recall the tremendous partnerships in
1934, when the two ran up 451 for
second wicket at Lord’s and 388 for the
fourth at Leeds. There is no cricketer
of Ponsford’s peculiar calibre in this
team.
“Brass Addler”: If the Notts crowd
didn’t like our cricket they paid up
handsomely to express their annoyance.
Receipts for the first Test were £BO6O.
Trent Bridge can’t hold 30,000, even if
the boundaries are shifted in as they were
in this instance, and many have to squat
on the grass. Prices of admission make
up for that.
* * * *
“St. John’s”: The statistical fiends
are waiting on Bradman for the coming
Test. Don is only 35 runs behind Hobbs’s
Test total of 3636 runs, made in 71 in-
nings, with four not-outs. The Austra-
lian has made 3601 in 42 innings, with
three not-outs.
* * * *
Dead in Sydney, at 55, Dr. H. V.
Hordern, the finest googly bowler Aus-
tralia has produced. A Sydney C. of E.
Grammar boy, he studied dentistry in
the U.S.A. and Europe, and it was while
at Philadelphia he took up the googly.
He was a great success on an English
tour by the Gentlemen of Philadelphia,
and on his return to Australia quickly
found his way into the N.S.W. side and the
Tests against the 1910-11 South Africans.
Against the Afrikanders he took 14
wickets at 21.07 ; his batting average was
27. Against Douglas’s side in 1912-13,
Hordern got 32 wickets at 24.37, bagging
Hobbs on five occasions. In the first
Test that tour he took 12 wickets for
175 runs. The game interfered with his
profession of dentistry, and he retired at
an early age. Dr. Hordern later served
in the Egypt-Palestine theatre of the war.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Looking up McCabe’s
records after his splendid showing at
Nottingham, I have been struck with his
consistency. Taking the last 10 Test
innings in which he played, I find that
only twice did he miss double figures.
His scores were 51, 7,0, 93, 63, 22, 88,
55, 112 and 232, and he has the faculty
of rising to his best when the odds are
heaviest against him.
# * *
“Cotswold”: It must be a very long
time since Gloucestershire had three men
playing for England against Australia on
a home ground, as happened at Trent
Bridge. In fact, I think it has been
recorded only once, in 1880, when three
Graces figured at the Oval in the firsi
All-England side against the visitors.
Gloucestershire has never won its way
back to the county championship since
the early ’seventies, when the competition
was first instituted, though it has seldom
lacked one or two front-rank playeis.
The “Big Six” among counties, reckoned
over a period of 60 years, are Yorkshire,
Lancashire, Notts, Middlesex, Kent and
Surrey, with Gloucestershire and Sussex,
the other two of the original eight, a trifle
lower down the list.
* ?. * *
“Lansdowne”: I can cite another uni-
versity blue besides A. G. Steel and Nor-
man Druce who “caught the eye of an
English selector while still at his
universitv” (B. 15/6/’3B). This was
C. F. H. Leslie, Rugby and Oxford,
who represented England in two matches
at Sydney and two at Melbourne with
Ivo Bligh’s team in ’B2-83. And whereas
Druce’s and Steel’s university days were
finished before they came this way, Leslie
was still in residence (technically) when
he made the trip. On his return to Eng-
land he took the field once more for
Oxford against Cambridge in ’B3. S. M.
J. Woods, of course, did better than any
when he rose to international status in his
freshman’s year at Cambridge (’88). ■ But
that was for Australia.
Footbrawl
Carlton, Melbourne, Geelong and
Richmond are at present “the four” in
Melbourne ; but Footscray is knocking
at the door. Footscray beat Colling-
wood on Saturday, 13-9 to 10-5; Rich-
mond, 15-14, won in the last few minutes
from Essendon, 15-9. In another strenu-
ously-contested match Melbourne de-
feated St. Kilda, 16-16 to 14-12. Gee-
long accounted for Hawthorn, 11-25 to
6-13; Carlton, 16-25, had no anxiety
against North Melbourne, 11-5; and Fitz-
roy headed South Melbourne, 16-12 to
8-8.
Among the Association clubs, Bruns-
wick is still unbeaten, and Brighton,
Northcote and Prahran are in “the four.”
On Saturday Coburg beat Brighton, 14-17
to 9-8, and Northcote settled Prahran,
premiers, by 17-7 to 12-20. Brunswick
easily downed Williamstown.
*** ' *
At the moment it’s no use trying to
pick the winner of the Sydney Rugby
Union premiership. With ten rounds
played there are only four points be
tween top and bottom. University and
North, top the previous week and both
beaten on Saturday (Uni., 17-14 by St.
George; North, 20-11 by Gordon), have
been joined in the lead by Manly. The
Villagers gave a grand display, but were
then only two points better than Rand-
wick, 14-12 (Manly three tries to two).
Randwick is level with West, one point
below the leaders, West having managed
a 20-14 win over Parramatta. Next
comes Drummoyne, beaten 6-3 by East,
with St. George, Gordon, East and Par-
ramatta together at the foot.
* * *
“Tenakoe”: The sole selector ap-
pointed by the M.L.R.U. has picked 25
men for the trip to Australia. Fifteen
of them have worn the black jersey;
among these are ■ full-back Taylor and
centre-three Sullivan, who did so well
against the ’Boks. Skipper Mitchell is
a giant wing-three. Phillips, here in
1935, is a Maori, and was not considered
for a Test against the color-shy Afri-
kanders. The forwards, a hefty lot, in-
clude Lambourne —he went to Britain in
1935-36, and is well known in Aus-
tralia—Wynyard and McKenzie. The
men Come from all over M.L., and only
a very optimistic Australian can see them


Cu GOOD
SMOOTH SHAVE
6
6
0
BEST
BRITISH
BLADE
Solg Agents: JOUBERT 6- JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
WINCHESTER
MODEL 69
BOLT ACTION REPEATING RIFLE.
df
.22 cal. rimfire bolt action box magazine repeater. 25in. round tapered
barrel, American walnut one-piece stock with pistol grip and semi-
beavertail forestock. Composition butt plate, military type action,
safety firing pin. Sporting front sight with bright non-tamishing
metal bead, mounted on low non-glare ramp base with slip-on sight cover. Two G-capacity
detachable magazines, one for long and long—rifle, other for short. Shoots regular and supei—
speed cartridges. Take-down model. Weight, about 51b. With sporting rear sight .... 87/6
With adjustable peep sight 80/ “
issia
Model 69, fitted with adjustable rear peep sight
and Winchester No. 3 2|-power telescopic sight.
Price £7/10/-
mmhbß
Model 69, fitted with adjustable rear peep sight
and Winchester No. 5 5-power telescopic sight.
Price £8
Winchester Telescopic Sights with high bases and mounts.
No. 3 —2 J power 50/-. Fitted to rifle 60/-
No. 5—5 power 65/-. Fitted to rifle 75/-
Carriage
Paid in
N.S.W.
COWLES AND DUNN
’Phone: M 3388. 71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in "iHc tfULLEIIN” takes your tancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
m
%
m
m
jm
+xv
«
. .in any ear priced so low
—and it’s a V-8 ... the biggest, roomiest Ford
V-8 ever built. , It gives greater all-round
operating economy than the conventional
"six.” It rides and handles with superb ease
and comfort. Appointments are complete—
and in perfect taste. Irrespective of price, no
car has ever before cdmbined such luxury,
distinguished beauty and operating economy
with V-8 performance as this grand new
8-cylinder Ford V-8 De Luxe Sedan. See
your local Ford
Dealer drive
this modern car!
Easy purchase
terms arranged.
FORDVtt
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
Note the roomy restfulness of this De Luxe
interior. There is a choice of four interior colour
ensembles (in tan, blue, green or maroon) to
harmonise with any of the eight body colours
available. An optional extra is the Ford-Tasma
quality car radio (Price £24, fitted at Factory,
Price includes aerial and installation).
PRICES FO B FORD PLANT Plus Sales Tax
Business Coupe . £325 I De l uxe Club Coupe . £341
Business Sedan . £347 " De Luxe Sedan . . . £362
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
1-271 27V
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
going down against the hybrid football
played here to-day.
* * * *
The M.L. Leaguers got a bad setback
in their match with Queensland at Bris-
bane, the home side scoring 31 to 11
(seven tries, five goals to one try, four
goals). The tourists will have a chance
of avenging themselves next Saturday.
* * * *
“Canny Lad”: The Australian Soccer
heads have learned their lesson. When
it was announced that an Indian team
was coming they were rushed with offers
of guarantees. They have replied that
this time they will take the risk and the
profits. There is a cash balance of about
£l7OO in the association’s sock.
¥ ¥ * *
“Stand Off”: Beyond all doubt Vic-
torians can play football. Limited as
are the opportunities of the Melbourne
lads who play Union Rugby, their best
XV—if it was their best —met with great
success in Sydney. They lost the first
game v. N.S.W..by two points, after scor-
ing three tries to two and missing
numerous chances at goal. The second
match saw the Victorians win hand-
somely by 23-14. Going to Canberra,
they beat the R.M.C. team 12-8. A
characteristic of the Victorians’ game is
their adherence to the old, honest, hard-
working forward type of play. It proved
far more effective than the shiny stuff
prevalent in Sydney.
Nineteenth Hole
“Hermit Park”: Sydney’s old friend
S. A. Keane, now resident in N.Q., won
the amateur championship of that section
of the State at Townsville with a score
of 276. Ivo Whitton was second with
298. Jenkinson, the Man from Mackay,
where the rum is made, could do no
better than 299.
¥ ¥ * *
“Hoylake”: Play in the British “open”
begins on the Sandwich links on Monday,
July 4, and ends on Friday, July 8.
There is a record entry, including players
from the U.S.A., the Continent and the
Dominions. Australia’s contribution is
four amateurs, who will close a very
creditable tour of Britain with the famous
fixture. Cotton is the titleholder.
¥ ¥ * ¥
“Divot Digger”: Von Nida, who
leaves at the end of the year for Manila,
Japan and the U.S.A., may make a long
stay abroad. One of the Philippines clubs
has offered him a good professional job,
and the Queenslander, who made a big
impression there last year, will probably
click. He is well advised. A most
promising young player, with supreme
self-confidence, he is just the type to do
well in big golf overseas. There is little
offering in Australia for a player of his
calibre, worse luck! -
¥.¥ ¥ ¥
“Gimlet”: Some visitors to Australia
must take away with them queer impres-
sions of this country. Mrs. Szell, wife
of the Czech conductor with us just now,
was taken by hubby to Elanora Golf
Club, near Sydney, in the company of
some club members. Following the
custom of all Continental countries and
Britain itself, Madame turned out in
slacks. She was told she could not enter
the clubhouse in “them,” there being a
rule to that effect. Explanations caused
the idiotic rule to be waived, and all was
gas and gaiters. Worth noting that even
the sacrosanct British women’s golf
championship has been content to permit
breeks, in spite of one or two feeble
protests.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Donald Budge
had a very easy trot in the French singles
championship. With Wimbledon and the
U.S.A., Budge should gain his objective
—the four major world’s titles. His
stiffest opposition may come from his
own countrymen at Forest Hills.
* ¥ ¥ *
“St. Colombes”: Apart from Budge’s
success in the French championship
singles, the American contingent did not
cover itself with glory in Gaul. Petra
and Destremaux, by no means first-class,
downed the champion and Mako in the
doubles by three sets to one. Unless
Budge gets another doubles partner the
American grip on the Davis Cup looks
anything but secure, for,, all well, Brom-
wich and Quist can be relied on to beat
the pair seven times out of ten. Budge
may be given his two singles, but both
Quist and Bromwich may beat Mako
in the other two, if he appears. It seems
likely that one of the new Yankee hopes
will be called on for the other singles,
but there is nothing yet to suggest our
men have not a first-class chance against
any of them.
Miscellaneous
Last week’s play in the Em-
pire billiard championship series, which
will finish in Melbourne on Saturday
(June 25), saw the holder, Marshall
(Westralia), and Kennerley (England)
continue their winning way. Kennerley
was too hot for Begg (Calcutta), and ran
up an aggregate of 2440 to 863 ; top-
of-table control and a run of nursery
cannons gave the Englishman a 472
break —an Empire amateur record.
Marshall in his match with Maorilander
Moses rattled up the highest aggregate
for the series. The Westralian scored
2611 to 856 ; best breaks 250 and 230.
» * * *
“Motu”: The first Australian bad-
minton team to go overseas is in Maori-
land —or should be by this time: Craske,
Thompson, Harper and Tonkin, and the
Misses Cuthbertson, Horsburgh, Hewett
and Robert. Craske, a Hobart wool-
sorter now working in Melbourne, holds
the Australian singles title. Harper is
Victorian champion. Thompson, the
team’s veteran —he’s in the late 20’s —
was the only Australian to take a set
from Devlin, the All-England champion
who toured Australia in 1936 and is
now a pro. in Canada. Thompson learned
the game in Launceston (Tas.), but now
plays in Newcastle (N.S.W.). Tonkin
is the tennis-player of that ilk; he
was Victorian doubles champion in
1933-34-37 and runner-up in the national
doubles and Vic. singles last year.


NO SOAP
NO WATER
NEEDED.
Shave Electrically
Of the 2.000.000-odd Schick users
NOT ONE has ever received a cut
or scratch from a Schick Electric
Shaver. Schick CANNOT scrape. No
raw faces—No shaving preparation.
Just plug in and actually ENJOY
shaving with a Schick. Price, £5/10/-.
Factory Representatives:
E.T.C. INDUSTRIES, LTD.,
470 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
SCHICK
ELECTRIC
DRY
SHAVER
FREE SAMPLES SENT.
rv
j
Re-Nu Liquid
Nu-Metal
Just deposit through plug
openings on pistons, turn
engine over a dozen times,
then let run 5 minutes.
NU-METAL expands 25%, reconditions engine
while running, saves costly £lO-£2O rebore,
ends piston slap, excess oil pumping, petrol
waste, rattles, noises, buying expensive parts,
restores compression, top speed, new power,
pep, zip.. Makes cars, trucks, motor-cycles,
farm engines, and all combustion engines run
like new. Guaranteed good for 10,000 miles,
when same results can be repeated; also
guaranteed harmless any part finest engine.
NU-METAL is put up in exact quantity size
tubes for each, type of engine. Price, 5/- a
tube for each cylinder. Maximum price, 4,6,
8 cylinder, 25/-, with extra 1 FREE tube of
Special Golloidal Nu-Metal for injection through
oil sump for the main bearings, big ends, etc.
Send for FREE Samples 20 other lines. Agents
required. RE-NU LTD., Op. Richmond Station,
Melbourne, J 4797. Open late Fridays.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Flagstad.
Kirsten Flagstad, who visits Australia
at the zenith of her career as a singer,
tied music-loving Sydney firmly to her
chariot-wheels with the first few bars of
Schubert’s great hymn, “Die Allmacht,”
with which she commenced her Town
Hall recital. At the end of the evening,
when, as a third encore to a group of
English songs, she gave her operatic
specialty, Brunnhilde’s Battle-cry, the
audience stood up and cheered.
Level-browed, frank-eyed is Flagstad.
Over her simply coiffured brown hair
there seem to hover, invisibly, the wings
of the Valkyrie helmet. She stands
straight as an arrow, firm as a rock.
Her voice is crystal-clear, she has no
tricks or affectations, and her tones are
powerful enough to soar above any
orchestral tumult. Singing with her is a
serious, straightforward business. But
when she curtsies in response to plaudits
her smile is that of a happy little girl.
A bracket of Schubert songs that in-
cluded the ditty about the trout and
ended with “The Erl King” gave the
varying flavors of a magnificent voice. It
was in a group of Grieg songs, sung in
Norwegian, that the singer excelled. The
keen bracing air of the northern fiords
is in these melodies, and nothing lovelier
than Flagstad’s singing of them could be
imagined. Elisabeth’s greeting, “Dich
Theure Halle,” from “Tannhauser,” ex-
plained why Metropolitan audiences in
New York acclaimed Flagstad as the
Wagnerian heroine.
A group of English “art songs,” mostly
poor stuff, though splendidly declaimed,
concluded the concert, which might have
ended in anti-climax but for the happy
thought to leave the fierce “ho-yo-tp-ho”
of the Valkyries lingering last in the ear.
There are bits of this, as Flagstad sings
it, like glorified coo-ees. Electrifying is
a feeble word for it.
Gregan McMahon Season.
An A. A. Milne comedy, “The Truth
About Blayds,” opened Gregan Mc-
Mahon’s current season at Melbourne
King’s on Saturday night, McMahon,
effectively taking the brief part of 90-
year-old Oliver Blayds, on whose prob-
lematical achievements as a poet the play
revolves. It was McMahon’s first public
appearance since he collected a C.8.E.,
and this, along with the excellently pro-
duced comedy, won him a great hand.
Down to a couple of grandchildren,
the poet’s family basks in his reputation.
For these divers characters, McMahon
found the right players: Sydney girl
Barbara Smith, improving with every
part; Frank Tarrant, managing another
of his good performances; Maura
Keiran, undoubtedly one of Melbourne's
most accomplished young actresses;
Stephen Staughton, occasionally a little
stagy, but another who is rapidly im-
proving ; Leonard Stephens and Phoebe
Marks, both up to the high McMahon
standard.
“Mr. Sampson,” a quaint West Coun-
try (Eng.) kitchen one-acter, precedes the
major McMahon offering. Two old-maid
sisters, played by Patricia Isles and Betty
Rae, are told by an elderly and almost
hairless Sampson that he wouldn’t mind
stopping village tongues by marrying one
of them, and leaves them to decide which
will wife with him. Thomas Skewes
makes a fine job of the likeable Sampson.
Szell s Final Sydney Concert.
Georg Szell said his orchestral farewell
to Sydney with Dvorak’s “New World”
symphony, the third “Leonora” over-
ture and Mozart’s two-piano concerto in
E flat (K 365).
Of all the distinguished conductors
who have commanded the A.B.C. band
Szell is the one who seems to think most
of the composer and least of himself. He
is evidently on the best of terms with the
players, and the mutual confidence pro-
duces some splendid music.
The ever-popular Dvorak number has
been more strikingly declaimed under
other auspices, but it was a remarkably
"THE BROKEN MELODY,” AT SYDNEY EMBASSY.
Harold Meade and Lloyd Hughes with Alec Kellaway as the disreputable gent.
well-studied performance. The concerto,
in which the pianists were Dorothy
Gibbes and Elizabeth Coleman, is not a
very great work, but it is a classic
example of clever two-piano scoring. The
pianists had a fair amount of success
with the tastefully-ornamented slow
movement and rollicked through the
almost Haydnesque final with great
gusto. The orchestral background was
just right—a rather difficult achievement,
because Mozart catered for very small
orchestras in his concertos.
The triumph of the evening, as was fit-
ting, was the concluding Beethoven
number. Every beauty of this austere
yet passionate work was brought out, and
it ended in a positive blaze of glory.
McKie Organ Recitals.
Last week at Melb. Town Hall William
McKie began a series of free farewell
recitals on the organ which in the past*
four years he has made the most dis-
tinguished instrument in the city. The
Bach, Handel, Mendelssohn and Schu-
mann he played he had already made
familiar to music-lovers; he performed
them with more than his usual delicacy
and finish.
Considering he has not only, elevated
the standard of organ programmes but
converted the City Fathers to the idea of
free midday concerts by local virtuosi
of the violin, piano, flute and oboe, as
well as full symphony performances, all
squeezed into the period when the
citizen is digesting his luncheon, it is
worth asking how strenuous were the
efforts to prevent him leaving Melbourne
for Magdalen College, Oxford. As well
as being a good executant, he is an
admirable teacher, and there are few
public officers who fight for a cause as
well as he did.
“The Broken Melody”
Lloyd Hughes, Diana Du Cane.
This latest Australian production from
Cinesound, showing at Sydney Embassy,
is much better than the last three im-
ports screened at that address.
It struck one commentator that the
original qualities of the film would have
been considerably strengthened if the
tuneful side had been more conspicuous
instead of mostly just subservient to the
narrative. The story has its points—its
appeal can best be gauged from the fact
that Australian novelist F. J. Thwaites
has sold something like 172,000 copies of
his book from which the film is adapted
—but the bones of it have been prac-
tically worked to a standstill by the
Yanks.
Main figure is a university student ex-
pelled for brawling in a nightclub, for
which revelry he is also banished from
under the parental roof. On his uppers
and fiddling for coppers, he is grabbed by
an entrepreneur and taken to London,
where lie acquires fame and fortune in
the musical sphere. Even the most casual
of filmgoers will recognise that as being
pretty familiar.
On the other hand, Alfred Hill’s music
is both refreshing and original. If his
services are available in the future Cine-
sound will have something that should
go a long way towards bringing their
musicals into the front line, particularly
in view of the fine presentation and
recording done in this present job.
Altogether, Cinesound’s latest is a
pleasant and capable blending of heart-
interest, comedy and tunefulness, and
those three ingredients being successfully
mixed in the one film marks another step
forward for Australian productions. Most
of the action takes place in or around
Sydney.
Acting is nicely managed and fairiy
even, though the male members of the
cast show up much better than the ladies.
Frank Harvey, who also adapted the
novel for the film, as an excitable im-
presario and Harold Meade as the
heavy-handed parent are excellent, and
Alec Kellaway makes an amusing pic-
ture of a nimble-fingered dip. Imported
Lloyd Hughes also good, though violin-
playing may seem a little tame after his
pearling adventuring in “Lovers and
Luggers.”
The feminine side, while being very
easy on the eyes and all that, savors a
little of the amateur stage. Also, the
ladies’ voices, though splendid when
warbling, have too much of the elocution
class about them to be natural in ordinary
conversation.
Extras also call for vast improvement.
Their amateurish efforts are particularly
noticeable in this showing when a crowd
cheering a boat off for England bear a
strong resemblance to a collection of
tailors’ dummies with streamers fastened
to their hands. On another occasion a
man collapses in a busy Sydney street,
about a dozen persons gather, there are
no more passers-by and flat silence reigns
among the spectators.
The faults here criticised will need to
be eliminated before local productions
can compete with top-line English and
American films. They have, however,
only an incidental place in this film,
which as a whole can be recommended
as a well-constructed and generally enter-
taining offering.
“A Slight Case of Murder
Etc.
Ads. for Sydney Mayfair’s current bill
put the emphasis on “Fools for Scandal,”
but when present film-taster looked in the
theatre people were showing sound criti-
cal nous by relegating that opus into the
secondary place of support and featuring
“A Slight Case of Murder.”
On every possible point “A Slight Case
of Murder” licks the other affair hollow.
Had it actually been shown as the sup-
port and had the main offering been
correspondingly good a point would have
been scored against the criticism lately
aired in these pages on the increasing
tendency of the film houses to make a
good film carry an execrable one.
Probably the moider opus was made
actually for support purposes. It is not
a new idea, this taking a comedy slant
on U.S. gangster activities, and a good
deal otherwise in that slant isn’t new,
either. But direction of it is first-rate,
and acting miles ahead of that in more
than half the pretentious films on show.
Of course, by now Edw. G. Robinson
can act a gangster in his sleep. Here
he is a reformed gangster ; having boot-
legged beer through the prohibition
period, he’s now going to turn, his plant
into a legitimate brewery. His acting in
this role has the same touches that made
his straight gangster parts always among
the best things on the screen. He. keeps
the character just about perfectly bal-
anced between the gangster he was and
the “legitimate” he is, with hint of the
leading American citizen he’ll one day
be.
He is supported by a little bunch of
the best gangster actors in captivity. None
of them has the Robinson subtlety, but
they contribute considerably to the
comedy. So does Ruth Donnelly as the
“legitimised” gangster’s wife, shooting
refained English from one side of her
mouth and lapsing into the old argot
from the other.
As for the other offering, “Fools for
Scandal,” it is an attempt at producing
a salacious comedy which misfires: one
of those films which succeed only in
amounting to a slight case of murder.
u Joy of Living ”
Irene Dunne, Douglas Fairbanks junior.
Showing at Sydney Regent, this mildly
humorous stretch is not likely to lift the
roof with storms of ha-ha.
It aims at polished craziness. Films of
this variety are best with a couple of
main players figuring most of the way
and left to their own resources to build
up their comedy. Miss Dunne and Fair-
banks are delightful, but, being con-
tinually hampered by the film’s dogged
adherence to its narrative and by the
antics of other funny people, they never
get quite into their stride.
The Dunne lady is a warbler who has
missed enjoying herself by working at
full pressure for benefit of a parasitic
family. Enter Mr. Fairbanks, black sheep
and globetrotter with a tramp steamer,
tropic island and a formula for enjoying
himself by doing exactly what he wants
to. Sighting the Dunne he lays himself
to snare her, and before long has her


1500 FREE BOOKS ON
DANCING!
\ TOW you can test this wonderful course on
1 ~ dancing yourself—try this famous system
in your own home, and if, after 30 days, you
have not become an expert dancer, popular and
sought-after, it COSTS YOU NOTHING—not
one penny! But you must hurry; this offer
may never again be repeated. It places you
under no obligation whatsoever; all you have
to do is to post the coupon NOW!
SIMPLE AS ABC.
IT does not matter if you have never danced a step
*in your life before—or if you have been trying for
years to dance—the famous JSOL.OT system, the
system that has stood the test of 25 years, guarantees
to make you an accomplished dancer in just 30
days—Oß IT COSTS YOU NOT ONE PENNY—it
will teach you all the latest dances—Slow Foxtrot,
Quick Step, Waltz, Tango, Rumba, etc.—together
with Modern Old Time. The Bolot System never
fails —you have Professor Bolot’s personal guarantee.
Become Popular!
IV/lAGNETIC Personality Popularity Confidence,
can be attained with Professor Bolot’s wonder-
ful course—you will find yourself sought after—
dsf
admired by the opposite sex—invited
out to all social functions—in short,
you will become a “social lion.”
Dancing is the short cut to good
times—non-dancers and bad dancers
miss all the fun in life —now is the
time to start and take advantage of
Professor Bolot’s wonderful offer
NOW—but hurry, this offer is
limited.
m
It
.
m
m
m
i
SEND NO MONEY?
PROFESSOR J. BOLOT, F.A.R.,
French Dancing: Academy,
Studio 39, 62-64-66 Oxford St., Sydney.
Dear Sir. —Please send me by return post
your FREE book, “DANCING AS A FINE
ART.”
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 6/”38.-
What This FREE Book
Will Show You!
9 How to Learn at Home.
9 How to Dance the Foxtrot.
• How to Dance all Dances.
9 How to be Popular.
• How to Improve Conversation.
• How to he a Perfect Dancer.
1500 copies of this famous book will he
sent FREE. Send at once for jour copy.
A TEST
FOR VDU
‘
a*
a
i
a
%
\w
a.:
V
WNRD
YOU MAY NOT BE CLEVER WITH THE BAT —
but if you possess skill in handling a pencil you can still
win FAME and FORTUNE!
POPULAR CARTOONISTS often win more admiration than the identi-
ties they caricature, and usually earn a great deal more in terms of
£ s. d., and besides the leading cartoonists a growing army of well-
paid Commercial Artists is continuously engaged on Poster Designing,
News-ads., Story Illustrations, Motion-Picture Cartoons, Fashion
Plates, etc.
IF YOU CAN DRAW—
UNDERGO OUR FREE TEST!
why not make a name for yourself?
No matter where you live or what
your age YOU CAN become a fully
qualified illustrator through our
Home Study Course.
80 Swanston Ss Melbourne
Our cleverly designed Test Drawings and
Questionnaire are yours for the asking. Get a
copy right away and send in your efforts for
TREE constructive criticism.
Please send 32-page booklet, “Art Ability
Tests,” under plain cover and without
cost or obligation.
Name
Ad ress
State
consenting to see what fun can be had
from the city on a couple of dahlars.
So far fairly promising, and some of
the ensuing merriment is hilarious, but
the clowning of Alice Brady, Guy Kibbee
and Eric Blore is out of key with it.
Still, though the film is disappointing
in view of its cast, it makes a more than
bearable entertainer, with delightful
warbling from Miss Dunne.
State Theatrette Realism.
Current bill at Sydney State Theatrette
includes the actual occurrence of the
tragic crash at Penrith motor-racing
track. The camera follows the car in
the race, then from when the swerve
started till it has crashed into the spec-
tators and stopped.
It is arresting realism, bringing the
incident home to the onlooker in a way
the newspaper accounts couldn’t hope
to do. Every day somewhat like occur-
rences are described in the papers, and
simply pass over the mind. The same
things, caught by the camera as this Pen-
rith smash is and served up in complete
daily dosage, would be intolerable.
There’s another patch of grim realism
on the bill, and with more point to it.
This is a parade in France of men facially
disfigured in the 1914 war. It is put
on as anti-war propaganda, and for once
the propaganda is directed purely against
war, not loaded against some country
or other.
It should be said that these are only
brief moments in an otherwise generally
lightly entertaining and often very in-
teresting bill.
Art Society’s Show.
The Australian Art Society’s twelfth
annual show fills the walls of the Edu-
cation Department’s spacious galleries in
Sydney. As is usual in these society
collections, a considerable section of the
exhibits is the work of amateurs.
The pillars of the A.A.S. all make a
good showing. Rupert Woodman’s figure
studies “The Peasant Girl,” “Vanity,”
“Barter” and “The Dancer” are in his
best vein ; Rhys Williams in “Autumn
Bronze” achieves a beautifully rich effect,
though other and more ambitious offer-
ings from his brush fall short by just
a scintilla or two. William Oates sur-
prises with a first-class moonlight-on-
breakers piece, “Tumbling Waters” —he’s
usually content with quiet landscapes.
Jerrold Nathan’s self-portrait (rather an
old friend) is the best bit of portraiture
in the show; W. M. Whitney is in his
COSTA RICA, CENTRAL AMERICA.
“The Blue Ox Cart" in Unk White’s exhibition of a world sketching tour, to be
opened at Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries next Tuesday.
suavest mood in “Reflections, Pittwater” ;
H. C. Hadley, whose style grows mellower
and mellower, pleases with “A 1 Fresco”
and other softly-painted landscapes, and
Garrett Kingsley’s portrait “Franceino”
would attract favorable notice in any
company.
Laura Booth’s water-colors become
richer and more colorful year by year.
She reaches a new level of excellence in
some Tumut sketches. J. A. Salt achieves
a distinctive style in “Blue Lagoon” and
“Late Afternoon.” R. A. Strath in
“Nocturne” gets a pretty picture out of
a difficult subject. A. Zimmerman’s huge
oil “Mountain Pool” has several square
feet of good painting in it, but the nude
figure is clumsily posed. Bruce Cousin,
who has been prowling round the Sydney
waterside with a water-color outfit, has
garnered a worth-while harvest, W. G.
McDiarmid’s little oil “Asquith Sketch”
deserves a word of praise, and Walter
Rayment has a promising shot at
“Martin-place, Sydney.”
A panel of pencil sketches of New
Guinea natives by C. S. Gould and an
abo. head by J. C. Goodhart are con-
scientious efforts. George H. Needham’s
“Convalescence” is nicely posed and
prettily painted, and Kathleen Eden in
“Copper-colored Girl” does right by
Sydney’s best-known model. There is
an excellent fan design on silk by George
W. Neville.
Mary Edwards in Four Moods.
Mary Edwards, whose gorgeous paint-
ings of barbaric belles have won her a
niche of her own in the temple of Aus-
tralian Art, has a show at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney.
In her best-known vein are the exotic
portraits “Daughter of Two Races,” “A
Swan Smile,” “Fijian Maid,” “Fijian with
Yellow” and “Nimitybelle,” first and last
of these being child studies, very tenderly
done. But the best thing in the show,
“Portrait with Still Life,” masterly in
posing, color and composition, has a
white subject, and the treatment is in
many ways different from that in the
South Seas pictures.
In this mood there are also a clinking
portrait of Madame Pao and a big “Por-
trait with Fan,” with a vibrant back-
ground. In another mood again are the
flower pieces, distinguished only through
their clever handling of color, and in a
fourth style are woodland fantasias, in-
habited by white-robed naiads—all quiet
blues and greens, with a great deal of
suavity in the foliage effects.
A feature of the show is the attention
paid to framing, several of the frames
having been designed and carved by the
artist.
Monotypes by Tom Garrett.
As a form of art a monotype seems to
be as illogical as the British Constitution.
You paint a picture on a sheet of metal
and while the paint’s wet you slap a piece
of paper on it and transfer the picture.
But effects can be got that way that can’t
be got any other.
Foremost Australian exponent of the
art used to be J. J. Hilder. Now it’s
Tom Garrett, whose most recent works
grace the walls of the Grosvenor Gal-
leries, Sydney.
No matter-of-fact transcript of things
seen are these, but graceful fancies. The
style is just a little reminiscent of that of
Blamire Young, but the drawing is more
consistently graceful and never in the
least freakish. Forest glades, suffused
with gentle light, still pools, walls dabbled
with sunlight and shadow and (rarely)
town scenes are Garrett’s favorite sub-
jects. Whatever he touches he clothes
with poetry. Coloring is always delight-
ful, and the delicate precision which is
the charm of the monotype is achieved
with unerring skill.
This commentator liked best “Blue
Door,” “Noon,” “Resting Place.”


Tl»e Biclmrdson Cuam Hotel
m
■
■
»«
1
I
MELBOITNn
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
123-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Kailway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from. . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
FOR RHEUMATISM, NEURITIS, ETC.
THE PERFECT MORNING SALTS
ALL CHEMISTS 4* . 8* .ft .
KEEP
QtCUou/u
'J'ake Golcryst regu-
larly to ensure vig-
orous health. These
golden crystals of
health are pleasant
to take and tone up
the whole system.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There was no informal levee in the
artists’ room after the Kirsten Flagstad
concert. Madame did her job and went
home. Women singers are, one sup-
poses, more highly strung than male
songbirds. They can stand a battery of
handshakes and an army of autograph
hunters after a performance, but women
want to slip away into a quiet corner
until the excitement cools off. What a
voice that woman has! It is as limpid
and clear as a snow lake on the top of
a mountain. It’s such a perfect voice
that in the interval people talked about
it and not about how “artistic” the sing-
ing was. From the moment Kirsten
stepped on to the Town Hall stage, look-
ing the true daughter of the North in
her ice-blue dress, and rimed about with
diamonds, the vast audience leaned back
in contentment. One singing girl de-
clared that to hear the “Walnut Tree”
alone was worth her entrance money.
There was style and to spare among
the women listeners. One of the most
striking was Mrs. Crawford Robertson,
in turquoise-blue matelassc and white
furs. Those incurable concertgoers the
Ernest Lashmars and the F. J. Davys
formed a party. A three-quarter gold
coat fitting to the waist and thence swing-
ing into fullness suited Mrs. John
Holmes’s slimness. The frock beneath
was of white embossed satin—altogether
an effective whole. Mrs. John (she was
Joan Mackanness till a short time ago)
is a grass-widow just now, as husband is
away in Darwin, counsel for the Crown
in the Japanese lugger case. The corri-
dors suggested an embassy party, so
many Consuls and their wives popped
into view.
The Colonel Moore Cosgraves came,
sleek black satins her choice. Noreen
Dangar’s frock of blue gleamed soft be-
neath a cape of black sequins. Ebba de
Dardel, with her father, represented
.Sweden prettily in a sweeping black
velvet coat, its neckline sporting red
roses. Mrs. Don Symington, of Rabaul,
wore russet crepes and a coat of dyed
squirrel. Mrs. Jim Normoyle’s white
satin frock drew a short train. Her lovely
coat was of white arctic fox. Add giant
baskets of flowers for the singer (one
all tied with the Norwegian colors, one
tied up with a smiling koala) and en-
thusiasm for accompanist Edwin Mc-
Arthur.
The memory of Henry Lawson was
honored by the Fellowship of Australian
Writers last week, and the Feminist Club
was crowded to capacity with Lawson
admirers. Blue-eyed, silver-haired Rod
Quinn, Lawson’s friend and fellow-poet,
was the first speaker. He spoke with
deep enthusiasm of Lawson’s work and
with gentle affection of the long years of
comradeship. Then smilingly, in a tone
of reminiscence, he told how Lawson
loved to borrow umbrellas —never own-
ing one himself! “He once borrowed
my stick,” said Rod in a sorrowful tone.
President of the F.A.W. Bart Adam-
son told how, wallpaper being scarce on
the tinmine where he was born, old
copies of The Bulletin did duty, and it
was there he first found Henry Lawson
and became a devotee. Ada Holman,
wearing a brown velvet coat with a frock
of blue and a toque banded with fur,
spoke her bit in praise and friendship.
Tal Ordell, reading “ ’Arvie Aspinall’s
Clock” and Dymphna Cusack, in a red
velvet gown, followed, and Mr. Jackson,
M.L.A., finished up the programme in a
politico-literary manner.
The Sydney branch of the British
Drama League held its first ball last
week. This was in the Paddington Town
Hall, and the centrepiece of the official
table was the silver cup to be known as
the Fay Compton Cup (it was really
bought and paid for by Rosemary Ben-
jamin, an ardent member). This will be
awarded for amateur dramatic perform-
ances by societies within the league group.
Around the walls were life-size paintings
of comedy, tragedy, opera, revue, ballet
and so on, but these did not prevent
anybody from dancing. The president,
Alexander Gordon’s lady, received the
guests, among whom were good-looking
Ann Codrington and Michael Wilding,
of the Fay Compton co. Under her
long fur cape the Gordon lady’s frock
of black-and-gold-striped satin gleamed
bright.
Beryl Bryant was slim in her bouffant
black tulles, and Mrs. A. G. Thomas’s
fair slenderness and her blue and silver
lamds were well suited. The Alexander
Gordons junior brought a party. Her
frock was hibiscus red. Jennifer
Maughan wore blue and white stripes.
Alison Nicholas, secretary of the revel,
kept wide awake in spite of the white
poppies all over the blue of her frock.
Miss Compton came on after she had said
good night to George and Margaret.
Lesbia Thorpe is one of the young
artists exhibiting with the Australian Art
Society. She shows, among others, a
.Narellan landscape called “Blue Hills.”
Lesbia has also exhibited with the
Painter-Etchers, the Industrial Arts and
the Water-color Societies. Photograph
by Freeman.
Luscious-red and gold-tinged roses
greeted arrivals for the opening of the
twelfth exhibition of the Australian Art
Society. Knight Francis Anderson made
his speech a clarion-call, not only to the
artist but to the nation, to be beauty-con-
scious. He told a story of the unveiling
of a piece of statuary in the bad old days
to which a morning newspaper gave three
columns of description and names of
important citizens but completely
neglected to mention the name of the
artist.
He was followed by Julian Ashton, who
made a plea for greater support of the
artist. He said within seven days his
mail had brought him eight invitations
for art shows. Three of these openings
he had attended, and in the three he did
not believe 50 guineas’ worth of pictures
had been sold. He put forward the idea
of a yearly art union, the winning num-
bers of which would entitle the holders
to purchase pictures.
The wife of secretary and treasurer
W. M. Whitney smiled from behind a
desk blooming with roses brought from
her gardens at Pymble by Mrs. Jerrold
Nathan. Mrs. Nathan’s outfit was piny-
green even to her gloves ; sapphire-blues
were worn by Mrs. Whitney. Two be-
ginning young artists who studied the
walls were Lesbia Thorpe and Marga
Ladengast. The Wallace Nelsons and
Mrs. Curlewis (Ethel Turner) were in the
crowded rooms.
A night of Romany song and dance
has been arranged by Mrs. Norman Mac-
leod for next Monday night in the in-
terests of the Kindergarten Union. This
will be an indoors and out-of-doors
affair, and will give old Vaucluse neigh-
bors a chance to see the Macleods’ new
North Shore line home. Huge braziers
will be set about the grounds, and a hot
supper cooked in the open under the
gum-trees at the end of the long garden.
Strolling bands of players in Hungarian
and Latvian costumes will burst into
melody beside whichever brazier meets
their fancy. There will be dancing in
the big garage and on the lawns. Charlie
Philip will add to the glamor with his
piano numbers, and Ron Wilkinson will
do the same with the music of his fiddle.
Pat Sykes and J. Andrews and the
Burlakov ballet will do special dance
numbers. Fay Compton is to be a guest;
the Julius lady will be another important.
The Forum Club always serves a good
tea, and on the day the members enter-
tained Fay Compton it had justice done
to it. Fay didn’t arrive till almost 4.30,
but the drawing-room had been crowded
with eager fans for an hour previous. The
actress, in black, as usual, and festooned
with the red carnations and the violets
presented to her by the committee, was
taken across the room and seated in a
big chair under one of the windows over-
looking Hyde Park. One by one or two
by two the members were taken up and
introduced. The tea was arranged very
well. There was a buffet up in the top
left-hand corner of the room, and in the
lower end tables were pushed close to
the pillars and used as distributing
centres. Mrs. Leonard Dare, one of the
hostesses, had her black frock brightened
with touches of lilac. Mrs. H. Throsby
was in a black ensemble. Among the
noticed were Dr. Grace Boelke, Mrs.
Baxter Bruce, Miss N. Veitch, Mrs. Park-
man, Renee Caro and Betty Tilley.
The interesting party of the week was
the late-afternoon reception given by the
acting Consul-General for Norway and
Mrs. Storaker in honor of singer Kirsten
Flagstad. The C.G.’s house is new, and
there is a sense of spaciousness in the high
archways between the entrance lounge
and the reception rooms. The floors and
doorways are of richly polished wood,
and altogether it was the right back-
ground for a welcome. On the piano
to greet the guest was a flower ship
with high Viking prow. On its deck was
a gnome of Norwegian ancestry, said
to have luck-bringing qualities. Kirsten,
who looks a typical Wagnerian heroine,
stood or sat beside the piano through-
out the afternoon. She was dressed in
black, the low neckline and shoulders
of her frock being embroidered in golden
ears of wheat. On her fair hair she wore
a black toque from which hung a black
veil with chenille edging.
The party sparkled with champagne
from the word “go.” Very smart was
the hostess’s frocking. It was of black
crepe, had a jacket of glittering sequins,
and a girdle of geranium red with which
the long chiffon handkerchief, carried
Delysia-wise, toned. Everybody was
there, including the artist’s husband.
He is a very tall, broad-shouldered man,
and his name is Henry Johansen. Accom-
panist McArthur, nice enough looking
to be a box-office attraction in himself,
and manager Levien were in the little
group around Kirsten. The E. J. Taits
were there, Mrs. Tait very smiling above
silver fox. Tall Stanley Crick and his
dark-haired wife were among the merry,
and her toque with its Russian inflection
was admirable.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly wore a bonnet-
shaped hat with good effect. Fay Comp-
ton and Walter Pye were in amiable
converse. Fay’s suit was of black velvet,
her flatfish fur of stone marten. Mrs.
Sep Levy was caped to the heels in
mink, and Mrs. C. L. Jones’s fur of
silver fox went with a black outfit. Miss
Monie, Mrs. Storaker’s aunt, had come
down from Dormie House at Moss Vale,
and was enthusing over a Flagstad con-
cert in the Queen’s Hall, London, which
she had attended. The De Cairos Regos
were there, and among the handsome
was Mrs. Hugh Poate.
Trumpeter Grace East, who comes
from California, will tour Australia with
the A.B.C. Grace is no ordinary
trumpeter. She has been twice sum-
moned to the White House to give a per-
formance. She has one of the prettiest
figures that have touched these shores,
and she is a most entertaining talker.
She says frankly she is interested in
clothes, and judging by the number and
size of her trunks she doesn’t suffer from
lack of variety. On her travels she will
spend a day or so at Kalgoorlie, and she
was wondering if she should pack a pick
—just in case there are any loose nuggets
about.
The chance to peep into a bachelor
artist’s home was given when Elioth
Gruner invited friends to meet South
Australian artist John Brackenregg. John
and a friend will inhabit Elioth’s house
while Gruner and secretary Brian Can-
nell journey north in search of further
inspiration. The party was a late-after-
noon affair, and there were firelight and
candlelight to make a picturesque whole.
A picture of Canberra poplars by the
artist host won a prolonged “O-o-oh!”
from newcomers. All the guests were art-
makers or art-buyers. One collector
proudly whispered he had 12 Gruners.
The popular Buckle couple, pretty
Coralie Jagelman, equally attractive
friend Bobbie Larnach and pianist Mrs.
Sluce helped make the party. Barbara
Lane Mullins was there. So were Syd
Ure Smith, Hera Roberts, Adrian Feint.
Last Friday the headquarters of the
Housewives’ Association was a beehive
of activity directed against the price oi
butter. Proceedings ended with a tea-
party, cakes for which had been made with
a substitute. The Housewives also object
to the proposed once-a-day delivery of
milk. They say it is against the interests
of the baby, and anything that is against
the health of the baby is against the
health of the State.
Mannequin parades have to be some-
thing different these nights to catch the
eye, but the Annabella mannequins at
the Rachel Forster Ball not only caught,
they held the gaze. There were 40 of
them, and they stepped one by one
through a huge fan which opened and
closed for their passing. They had an
audience of 700 or so, and the Trocadero
was the setting. The night’s guest of
honor was Dame Constance D’Arcy,
shining in black satin. Dr. Lucy Gullett,
Mrs. Reid, Kate Ogilvie, Mrs. F. J. Davy,
very fair in blue-and-gold, and Mrs. J. W.
Kidd, all closely associated with this
women’s hospital, were in the official
group. Valma Ashcroft, a young enthu-
siast, brought a party of 50.
United Hospital Auxiliaries opened
their conference last week with an even-
ing meal at Anthony Horderns.’ Over
200 members sat down to meat, and in
the place of honor was Lady Wakehurst.
The Governor’s wife, who made a neat
little speech, gave a pictorial touch to
the official table with her black velvet
frock, her pearl necklace and pearl ear-
rings. Minister for Health FitzSimons
was lucky. He sat between Lady Wake-
hurst and Mrs. Greg McGirr, who is
president of the United Auxiliaries.
Morna Mackenzie, Lady Wakehurst’s
new secretary, was present. Mrs. Fitz-
Simons, who accompanied her Minister,
wore black velvet. It was a “go-as-you-
please” as far as dress was concerned,
and many of the diners found their en-
joyment none the less keen because they
were in afternoon frocks or tailored suits.
Speeches were adequate; music very
good.
Americans in Sydney are celebrating
the Fourth of July with a ball at the
Australia. This is called the Anglo-
American Ball, and the decorations will
be happy and glorious with British,
American and Australian flags all en-
twined. Red, white and blue decorations
will further enhance the spirited note.
Two orchestras and non-stop dancing
will be part of the fun. The pretty girl
herewith, Joyce Boynton, is chairman of
the ball committee’s younger set. She
has kept her followers busy with tennis
and bridge parties, the result being a nice
sum towards expenses. The American
Society’s benevolent fund will benefit.
Photograph by Monte Luke.


II
Waarom u niet iedereh
DAG LEKKER VOELEM ?
acdd -Fnend
If
!'/%
k
AC
r"
( An
' N
vwSS
/5%p
A.
0
>^
W//,
~Tfmtb ttU DuiJ)
ii
Why not feel fit every day?
To enjoy to the full your social
and other activities is all a matter
of feeling thoroughly well every
day of the year. Nothing
helps more in promot’ng and ma ! n-
taining good health than the
moderate use of Wolfe’s Schnapps
—it contains unique medicinal
properties especially beneficial to
women.
A dai'y glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps
will keep you feeling fit and well
all the time. For generations Aus-
tralian women have known this
fact. You, also, will find it really
worthwhile knowing. wseß
WOLFE’S
c zJlromt^Sx^mdam
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
i nli 11
gif
»s
m


Renter holiday
;10 DAYS £lO-10-0
| All-inclusive 10-day cost includes
I first-class meals and accommoda^
* tion, and full line-up of attractions
■ including ball, theatre, matinee, day
and evening motor tours, dinners,
| shopping excursions, sport outings,
- etc. Additional motor tours if de-
* sired from Sydney and Adelaide.
I Snip this advertisement and forward
* immediately for free Winter Holidoy
I Booklet, adding name and address,
to the 1 N,
VICTORIA
PAIACE
215 LIT. COLLINS ST.
(Next Town Hall) MELBOURNE
*•••
>iia
iii
mu
Personal and Missing Friends.
ALICE FRANCES LANGLEY, lately of Tam-
worth, or any person knowing her whereabouts,
is requested to communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Box 7A, G.P.0., Sydney, New
South Wales, regarding the estate of MARY
SHERLOCK, deceased.
BRANDAUERrS
m
a.**
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDAUBR * CO.. Ltd.. BIRMINBHAM. KNS
W.V
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of
over 3 pounds of waste matter. When the
kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty and difficult. Instead of
being filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the same
quick relief they have been giving millions
for many years. If backache is bothering
you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
Melbourne
Chanter
A success of the week was a dance in
aid of Red Cross funds held at Illawarra,
lent for the occasion by Mrs. J. F.
Churton. Peggy Churton worked so hard
during the party, as well as before it, that
she had no time at all for dancing early
in the evening. Other busy bees were
Vaire Wilkinson, who brought her kind-
hearted father, Major Wilkinson, along
to help guard the pounds and shillings
at the door, and Lois Sallmann, who
wore a gold cloak and shells. Her hair
was twisted into shell curls on the top
of her head, and her necklace and brace-
let were of beach shells, lacquered with
gold paint.
Among lads who did their bit by tuck-
ing tea-towels into while waistcoats to
serve behind the bar were John Lee
Atkinson, Berwick Hicks, David Chis-
holm and med. student Lindsey Grey,
who hails from Perth. Another budding
sawbones, who used to be in the Navy
before he changed his profession, was
Athol Robertson. Keith Allen was also
there, complete with gardenia. Lieut.
Clive Hudson, on leave from the Alba-
tross, danced with determination in spite
of his lame foot, injured a few weeks
ago in Sydney playing Rugby.
Three girls in white chiffon frocks were
Mary Luxton (hers was encircled with a
gold fish-scale belt), Kathleen Macpherson
(whose draped gown was attached to
crossed shoulder straps and protected
between dances by a silver fox cape) and
Kathleen Anguston, who wore page-boy
coiffure and sandals consisting of just
two bands of silver kid. Metallic faille
was chosen for their frocks by Joyce
Hayden Smith and Bunty Govett. Bunty’s
had tiny covered buttons as fastenings
down the side. Cynthia Vernon Smith’s
black organza dress ran to a little bolero
with cherry ribbon pipings. Mrs. Alan
Bishop’s morning-mist gown showed a
soft ruching round the throat.
Among other married folk present were
the J. H. Journeaux and the Greg Gowan
couples. Until her marriage a few
months ago Mrs. Gowan was Nora Free-
man. Her frock was of white organza
a-twinkle with silver threads. Penelope
Nicol was a sweet young thing in her
cloud-pink chiffon with black lace fan
frills around the neck. Divertissements
of the evening were a buffet supper in
the dining-room, warmed by an open
fireplace of smouldering mallee roots ; the
drawing of a silk-stocking raffle by Mrs.
Louis Nelken and a Dutch auction of
theatre tickets conducted so successfully
by Mr. Nelken that it raised about £7.
“Dutch” bidders pay in the difference
between their bid and the previous bid.
There is a secret time limit, and when the
bell rings the last bidder gets the booty.
St. George’s Hospital Building Com-
mittee decided that while it was about it
it would make a high, wide and hand-
some effort for the hospital. In the
afternoon at ' No. 9 Darling-street there
was bridge—9o tables —and in the even-
ing 350 people came in out of the wet
(a genuine break in the drought) to dance
and buy pink carnations. The president
of the Hospital’s Building League, Mrs.
Walter Summons, wore ashes-of-roses
pink and was accompanied by her medico
husband, who managed by some mysteri-
ous process to pick up cricket scores from
England. Mrs. W. Angliss and Eirene
were a distinctive mother and daughter,
both tall and dark, with hair swathed in
a similar style upon the nape of the neck.
Only two days previously they returned
from a holiday among family pastoral
properties in Queensland.
Mrs. Keith Hallam, who did so much
spadework before the party, carried on
in the right spirit and took off her long
kid gloves in favor of fountain-pen, raffle
book and petit-point bag, made by Mrs.
H. E. Handbury and won by Mrs. John
Eddy, who was on the dance floor round
about 2 a.m. to take delivery of her
luck. Mrs. Handbury is one of the won-
ders of the world at all kinds of tapestry.
When her son Peter married Verna Pitt
during the previous week she presented
to the bride and ’groom a set of six
chairs, their covers worked in her own
design and tapestry stitches.
Among others at the dance were St.
George’s theatre sister Miss P. Rawlins,
who was instrumental in running the
first dances ever held for the hospital.
Also present were Dr. and Mrs. W. H.
Fitchett, whose home lately has been
seething with verbal activity in connection
with inquiries from a medico’s point
of view about the national-insurance
scheme. Dr. and Mrs. Geoff Cook were
there, Mrs. Cook wearing black tulle
and a gold satin coat. Freda Thompson,
who handles a ’plane so skilfully, wore
sleekly-fitting black taffeta with an elab-
orate row of curls in her auburn hair.
In the Broothorn photograph is Ann
Akhurst, of Kooyong-road, Armadale,
who, with Judy Lillies, is ticket secre-
tary for the Malvern Junior Auxiliary’s
dance at Earl’s Court on June 30 in aid
of the Brighton and Darling Babies’
Home. This junior auxiliary is as young
as some of the babies at Darling (when
they turn five they are transferred to
Brighton). In its early toddling stage it
was content with working up small
dances and tennis parties, but now that
it has reached the lusty age of three it
means to do more ambitious things,
hence Earl’s Court for the coming party.
Vivienne Tanner is'president of the com-
mittee, and among other members doing
their share of the work are Lorna Butler,
Margaret Russell, Joanna Guthrie, Betty
and Gwen Horna brook, Cynthia Vernon
Smith and Betty Adams.
Queen’s College is celebrating its
fiftieth birthday year, hence activities of
a more ambitious nature than usual;
Earlier in the year there was a large
garden party, and in a few weeks’ time
the students’ dramatic club is producing
Clifford Odets’s “Waiting for Lefty.” The
annual ball last week was bigger than
most of the college’s previous dances. It
took place at Earl’s Court, with pro-
grammes, official guests, some 400
dancers, the college flag and a set of
pennants as decorations. Senior student
R. G. Baker and secs. Pat O’Donnell,
fifth-year med. student, A. W. Burton,
who’s a year behind his confrere study-
ing for the same profession, and A. S.
Livingstone, who is doing second-year
Arts, wore red carnations denoting that
their presence was useful as well as orna-
mental. Among special guests were the
master of Queen’s and Mrs. R. C. John-
son and the Misses Sugden, daughters
of Dr. Sugden, who was master in the
first year of the college, 1888. The
J. D. G. Medleys were there; also Pro-
fessor and Mrs. K. H. Bailey, representa-
tives from the other colleges and clusters
of girls invited by the 50-odd hosts.
Complimentary to Mrs. J. D. G. Med-
ley and gratifying to the committee was
the attendance for the lecture at Grong
Grong, Mrs. Tom Smith’s home, in
aid of the building extension of the
Women’s College. Several of the organi-
sers found themselves an overflow and
sat upon cushions or upon the steps. At
the conclusion of the lecture the com-
mittee and some special guests dodged the
finely falling but persistent raindrops to
motor round to Hopetoun-road in accord-
ance with Mrs. Ivan Maxwell’s supper
invitation. Dr. Greta Hort, new principal
of the college, arrived from London at
the beginning of this week.
The new Vice-Chancellor’s wife proved
herself a fluent speaker with a bright
sense of humor. Her talk on “Oxford
Memories” was embroidered with many
an anecdote of the days when dons were
shortsighted old gentlemen with long
moustaches and when professors prefixed
their lectures to classes of both sexes
with either “Gentlemen” or “Gentlemen
and Others,” the females present being
as unimportant as the silverfish in the
wainscotting. Oxford had its wrangles
as well as its wranglers. Long ago there
was a dispute between two colleges,
which both claimed ownership of the lane
dividing them. University College, to
which Mrs. Medley’s grandfather was
attached, wanted to build an overhead
bridge. There was a law case (in it Mrs.
Medley’s father got his first brief). Grand-
father’s college won, and the final com-
promise was a hinged contrivance in the
middle of the lane adjustable for the
passing of vehicles belonging to either
of the rival neighbors.
The American Consul and Mrs. F. A.
Henry will be missed from the American
Ball, for they are leaving at the end of
June for Europe, and will be absent from
Melbourne for some months. Travel is
nothing new to this couple, who have
among the furniture and furnishings in
their house in Russell-street, Toorak,
many souvenirs of other homes beside
wide oceans, deep rivers and snow-topped
mountains. They have portraits of them-
selves and their daughter painted by a
Hungarian artist while they were in Val-
paraiso. On the floor of their lounge are
hand-woven rugs fom Majorca. Over the
piano is an ancient piece of Spanish cloth
in warm rusty colors. A lovely old
Spanish cabinet, its ornamental front
panel depicting a bullfight, came into
Mrs. Henry’s possession by persistence
of salesmanship. She saw it in an antique
shop in Madrid, admired it very much
but refused to pay the price asked. A
few days later it arrived at her home
and was placed in a suitable position
while Mrs. Henry was out. When she
saw it in that environment she weakened
and the piece became her property.
Broothorn pictures here Mrs. W. D.
Nicholl, who, with her small son
Anthony, is staying with her mother,
Mrs. W. Dunne, of Myoora. Before her
marriage Mrs. Nicholl was well known
as Phyllis-Mary Dunne. She’s a grand-
daughter of the late Thomas Brentnall,
who throughout his long lifetime was
probably the most loved patron of music
in Melbourne. Captain Nicholl recently
returned to India on the same ship as
Captain David Morrison, who also left
his wife behind for a longer holiday.
She’s English, and this is her first visit to
Melbourne and to her husband’s relatives.
Candles on the cake, a splendid model
in sugar of H.M.A.S. Sydney, were useful
as well as decorative at the wedding of
Doreen Buchan and Lieut. James Guy
Ashley-Brown, for soon after the guests
arrived at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Ronald Buchan the lights fused. It was
ah afternoon reception, but the leaden
skies that came with the break in the
drought, added to the fact that we re so
close to the shortest day of the year, made
for almost a blackout at 5.30. Officiating
padre Canon Hughes made a merry
speech in which he said it takes a brave
girl to marry a sailor but the navy
deserves brave wives, so all’s as it should
be. The canon has married scores of
stout fellows, including Don Bradman,
and it being Test cricket time he is sport-
ing the sleeve links presented to him
as a memento of that occasion. Bride
Doreen chose a high-collared, long-
sleeved gown of magnolia velvet, and the
’groom and his henchmen were in the
magnificence of naval uniform. Doreen
was guest of honor at a number of pre-
wedding parties given by her girl friends,
and Ashley-Brown had his bachelor dinner
at the Florentino, with an adjournment
to the Naval and Military Club.
A versatile American woman who
called on Mrs. L. Drexler at the Victorian
Tourist Bureau last week before going
over to Sydney and catching the Mari-
posa back to Seattle was Mrs. Robert
Emmett-Johns. She is private secretary
to the general manager of the Pacific
Telephone Co., which operates through
several States down the west coast ol
America. Speaking of the involved busi-
ness of telephones, Mrs. Emmett-Johns
mentioned a concession to psychology
called “tear minutes,” which applies to
calls to foreign countries. There is no
charge for these emotional moments. Thus
if a son or daughter makes a call in
any part of America to a fond mother
in England, time for the call does not
begin until the first stress and strain
goes out of the mother’s voice. Mrs.
Emmett-Johns also writes verse, and finds
time to be associate editor of an
lesthetic quarterly, “Muse and Mirror,’
which is printed on art paper, contains
verse only, carries no advertising and is
maintained by subscriptions. Now and
again English literary papers refer in a
friendly manner to this publication,
which has been in existence for nine
years. By request, a complete file of its
issues was forwarded recently to the
library at Harvard University.
Rugs for the knees of the audience at
the Little Theatre are no longer a neces-
sity for the preservation of life and
animation. Brett Randall’s production
of Walter Ellis’s “What Woman Wants”
was great fun and well cast. The charac-
ters are almost caricatures, for they and
the plot are so palpably and purposely
exaggerated. W. G. Southwell and
Dorothy O’Keefe had a lot to do with
the success of the play as the Augustus
Percival-Hawleys, wealthy retired shop-
keepers who flounder with much splash-
ing into every quicksand of manners and
breeding. They possess a Rolls Royce
and a butler (with neurasthenia, “but
Gus always did expect a lot for his
money”). There is a dinner-party at
which the mayoress becomes too well
acquainted with the port and the mayor
shouts “shop” whenever the bell rings.
Iris Jones was attractive as daughter
Millicent. Ken Carter was a curly-
headed Lord Roxton, often addressed as
“Yes, Lord,” by Gus. Erich Reiman
made a volatile and amusing Frenchman,
Edouard, who has the perfect touch in
cooking a dinner.
“The Truth About Biayds” was
divulged by Gregan McMahon’s Players
in a refrigerator, for the King’s Theatre
heaters were turned off early, and prob-
ably turned on late, so that by the end
of the evening the audience had but a
single thought, to get the ice thawed out
of its joints as soon as possible. Among
spectators were Dr. and Mrs. S. A. Smith,
. who came down from Sydney specially
for the performance, for their daughter
Barbara played Isobel. Afterwards the
family rejoiced at the Embassy among
Barbara’s congratulations and general
approval of the marriage of her sister,
whose stage name is Nancy O’Neal.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 225 of 1938.
BETWEEN LOIS FRANCES WEBB Petitioner
And ROBERT REGINALD WALTER
WEBB Respondent.
TO ROBERT REGINALD WALTER WEBB
late of Tallangatta in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LOIS
FRANCES WEBB has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without
just cause and excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Fifth day of July One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined wour absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this lsth day of June, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
TIETYENS & ANGEL, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, Kiewa Street, Albury.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 815 of 1938.
BETWEEN CATHERINE McLEAN Petitioner
And ALEXANDER ROBERT McLEAN
Respondent.
TO ALEXANDER ROBERT McLEAN late
of Paddington in the State of New South
"Whiles
TAKE NOTICE that the said CATHERINE
McLEAN has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Fifteenth day of September One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of June One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
By the Court,
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
R. M. EWING & BADHAM, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Ugly Fat
i
Banished
Excess Weigh!
Easily Dissolved by
New Natural Method
Dr. D. McClaskey. New York, says:—
"Acid conditions in Intestinal Tract
(Self-Poisoning) is real cause of the
deposit of adipose tissue ”
Seli-poisoning (autoxima) overthrows the
body's alkaline reserve and develops
acid conditions which impair the normal
functions of the body. Instead of the
body eliminating the fatty acids (which
result from digestion) in a natural way,
these fatty acids are absorbed into the
blood stream with other waste residues.
i
I Was 10 st. 6 lbs.
Now 9 st. 3 lbs.
Hamilton, December, 23.
”Your wonderful
Coloseptic has been
the means of reducing
my weight over 17 lbs ,
... I tried all kinds
of things before I used
Coloseptic, but they
had no effect . . .
COLOSEPTIC keeps
me so well.”
—Miss J.M.
COLOSEPTIC overcomes acidity, activates
nutrition, dehydrates the excess moisture
weight, breaks up the fatty acids, sweeps
the intestines clean of all heavy ferment-
ing residues and other acid products and
passes them smoothly out of the system.
It also activates the dehydrating action of
the other vital eliminative organs—the
kidneys, pores of the skin and respiratory
apparatus. COLOSEPTIC is the one
natural, safe way to permanent weight
control.
Trial Offer..
Send 3d. in stamps to COLOSEPTIC
(Aust.) Ltd., 26 O'Connell Street, Sydney,
and mention the name of this paper.
Coloseptic
&
rC.
i
o<t UIT
osv
orJ*
When a WOMAN
tells you
that people often take her
for years younger than
she is,
that she puts this down to
her white teeth,
that she puts those down to
the fact she’s used noth-
ing but Calvert’s Tooth
Powder since she left
school
Well, don’t
aon i you think it is
trying for your teeth!
In En«'a ndb ? Vn
worth
u trying iur yum icciu i
v.c
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
The Y.W.C.A. now has reached the
respectable age of 50, and to celebrate
the anniversary arranged a bright pro-
gramme at the City Hall, titled “Time
Marches On.” Sir Leslie and Lady Wil-
son, looking very fit after their northern
trip, went along, and were received by
Mrs. W. E. Savage, president of the board
of directors, and gen. sec. Bessie Forster.
Hand-decorated souvenir programmes
were presented to both vice-royalties, and
there was a bouquet for Lady Wilson.
Visiting hockey players from the
country were bidden to a dance arranged
by the Queensland Women’s Hockey
Assn., and held at the Blind, Deaf and
Dumb Institute. Monte Carlos and
streamer dances added to the gaiety.
The Carlton ballroom provided the
setting for the ball arranged by the
Recreation Club of the Bank of N.S.W.
Queensland manager D. Garland and
his wife, the lady in soft draperies of
canna rust, received. Balloons and
streamers, roses and gerberas lent color.
Eighty-six guests drank tea at a party
given by Marie Bergin at her home at the
Hamilton. There were pagodas, galleons
and rickshaws for place-cards, and the
initials M. 8., done in jonquils in pottery
holders, as a centrepiece. Mrs. Basil
Bergin helped her daughter to entertain.
Freda, daughter of the E. G. Ellfevsens,
of Southport, and John, elder son of
architect Tom Hall, have announced
their engagement.
Guests who arrived at the cocktail
party at the National Hotel hostessed
by Mrs. F. B. Barnes got a real surprise,
for hostess’s daughter, formerly Mrs.
Olga Flower, announced that her wed-
ding had happened a little earlier in the
day, the lucky man being Mark Ernest
Davis. Bridegroom originally hailed from
Melbourne. The bride wore navy blue,
and the chapel at St. John’s Cathedral
saw the quiet wedding.
After officially opening the Bundaberg
Show, our Sir Leslie went off for a game
of golf, and Lady Wilson went with
Mayoress Mrs. G. A. Buss to drink
morning tea with the members of the
C.W.A. and Red Cross Society. His Ex.
dined with the members of the Burnett
Club.
The Governor’s daughter, Marjorie,
has been staying at Karoomba, Mr. and
Mrs. F. Bell’s lovely home at Boonah.
The Boonah Show was on while she was
there, and all the Bell family had guests
for it. Margaret Allen, of Sydney, stayed
at Coochin Coochin, and rode one of the
Bell horses in the ring events. Mr. and
Mrs. Bert Bell have had a new skating
rink put down at their home, and there
were numerous skating parties during
the festivities.
WESTRALIA.
The Junior Kindergarten Auxiliary
wound up weeks of preparation and
flower-making with a highly-successful
“Night in Honolulu” in the setting of
Government House ballroom. From a
grass hut in the foyer a soft strumming
of guitars set the atmosphere, and three
attractive Hawaiian belles, Pam. Drake-
Brockman, Esme Barry and Joan Boult-
bee, sold leis to the dancers. Dulcie
Allen was the guiding spirit, and her
dull silver lame, flying pennants of jade,
amber and persimmon chiffon, flitted
from the presentation of debs, at the v.-r.
dais to the palm-decked supper-room in
watchful supervision. Mrs. Eric Field-
ing clutched a bulging purse of takings
to her sequin-corselette-belted black
tulle billowings, Mrs. Theodore Ambrose
was in frosted lame caped with white
ostrich-feathers, above which gleamed
her snowy silver curls, and Gwenyth
Edward’s shirred and puffed rose-pink
tulle was fashioned from the waist up
entirely of miniature tulle flowers.
On the same night the Engineers’ Club
put on its revel at the Uni. The decora-
tions are always intriguingly novel, and
this year the ballroom was transformed
into Neptune’s Cave with clever under-
water effects, fearsome fish and deep-
sea divers and a “crossing-the-line” cere-
mony carried out with unpleasant
realism for the victims. The wife of
the Dean of the Faculty, O. F. Blakey,
was hostess in swathes of cherry chiffon
velvet. During supper, Lynn Letch (presi-
dent of the club) announced his engage-
ment to Lynn Farnham, who wrapped
her slimness in a length of green-and-
silver lame.
Poinsettias en masse and branches of
fluffy wattle made cheerful background
for Mrs. Cecil Mason’s presidential
velvet-swathed jade crepes as she ex-
tended a welcoming hand to Royal
Schools’ Music Club members and guests
in the Karrakatta Club Hall. Dr. Hall,
passing through from England for musi-
cal doings in Asia, was the lion of the
evening, and Edward Black chatted of
“Meanderings—Musical and Unmusical”
in whimsical vein.
“Abandon all hope ye who enter here”
bannered the entrance to the Embassy
for the Advertising Arts Ball, and gave
the keynote to the riotous doings within.
Highlights of the advertising world
trundling miniature bicycles round the
slippery ballroom floor, a tap-dancing
bull and chanting toreador, and an
orchestra in o.s. Mexican sombreros dis-
pensing popcorns to the crowd all added
to the carnival spirit.
The Lance Barretts, of Claremont,
laden with new daughter and luggage,
have departed for a holiday in Mel-
bourne. The idea is a family reunion
before the breaking-up of the A. O.
Barrett home over there, now that all its
chicks have flown to nests of their own.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
His Ex. and Lady Dugan attended the
Junior Red Cross Ball at the Palais Royal.
The Lady Mayoress welcomed the vice-
regal party, and escorted them to the
official dais with Mrs. F. C. Willoughby.
Mrs. Franck Harcus had decorated the
vice-regal table with a long mirror sur-
rounded with Brussels sprouts and chil-
lies, and in the middle a design carried
out in persimmons, cumquats and other
colorful fruit. The stage was fes-
tooned with rosy apples, and edged with
carrots, pears, lemons and bananas.
Thirteen of this season’s debs., all white-
frocked, drew by a silver cord a huge
three-tier birthday cake on a stand across
the ballroom to the front of the vice-
regal box. There were 43 colored candles
alight, and tiny posies were on each tier.
Dorothy, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Henry Cohen, of Glenelg, and
Reginald, son of Mr. and Mrs. Frederick
Smith, of Hampshire, England, exchanged
vows at St. Peter’s, Glenelg. The bride’s
ivory satin gown was cut on princess
lines and merged into a long train. The
tulle veil was held in place by a coronet
of tiny waxen lilies. Delphinium-blue
crinkled chiffon was worn by the matron
of honor, Mrs. Laurie Cohen. The
guests were afterwards entertained at a
cocktail party at the Glenelg residence
of Mr. and Mrs. Laurie Cohen. The
newlyweds will make their home in Gee-
long, Vic.
The medical students had their dance
in the Uni. Refectory, and about 200
guests were present. Poinsettia and
chrysanthemums looked effective in the
ballroom. The official guests included
Dr. C. T. C. de Crespigny (Dean of the
Faculty of Medicine) and Mrs. de Cris-
pigny, and Dr. G. H. Burnell (president
of the society) and Mrs. Burnell.
Helmer’s Charity Ball attracted a large
crowd to the Palais Royal. Decorations
were large-framed posters showing a
parade of fashions throughout the ages,
set against scarlet-draped pillars. Five
hundred multicolored balloons, over
5000 Lorraine Lee roses and a profusion
of gold-lacquered bay-leaves were also in
evidence. The Lord Mayor’s Relief
Fund, the Mothers and Babies’ Health
Association and the Kindergarten Union
benefited. The Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress were present.
An evening wedding was that of Ruth,
elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. H.
Martin, of Kensington Gardens, and
Alan, son of Mrs. C. M. Cowling, of
Sheffield, England, and the late Mr.
Cowling, at St. Augustine’s, Unley.
Bride’s gown was of embossed magnolia
satin, the tulle veil being held in place
by a coronet of lilies-of-the-valley. There
were four bridesmaids, two in rose-pink
and two in delphinium-blue satin crepe.
TASMANIA.
The Midland Hunt Club had one of
its topnotch days when the hounds met
at the Gatenbys’ home, Rhodes, Long-
ford, and then hunted the hare over both
Rhodes and Elsdon (the F. Youls’ prop-
erty). There were a big field and an un-
usually large number of followers by
car and on the roads. At the end of the
run they met again at Rhodes, and were
well entertained by Mr. and Mrs.
Gatenby and their daughters. The sing-
ing of hunting songs and choruses was
a feature of the function.
Young folk of the Victoria League
ran a dance at the Belvedere, with Stella
Shone as hon. see. and Sheila Parsons as
treasurer. Several mainland folk leav-
ened the local lump, among them Nancy
Slade (Sydney), M. Caldwell (Mel-
bourne), Mrs. Livingstone (Adelaide) and
Myreen Saywell (Sydney). Frocking was
cosy and suitable for wintry evening
wear.
Numerous hostesses entertained guests
at small dinner parties before going on
to the Victoria League dance. Among
them were Mrs. Francis Foster, who
spread a buffet repast in her own home,
Nancy Slade (who has been visiting her
sister, Mrs. Douglas Parsons), Stella
Shone and the Keith Nairns.
Great excitement reigned in the Mid-
lands over the centenary of the Campbell
Town A. and P. Show. People gathered
from all over the island to pay their
respects to the woolly prize-winners. The
Lieut.-Gov. and Miss Evans and a small
army from Hobart went up.
John Taylor, Winton, invited the Scot-
tish Pipe Band from Hobart to the Mid-
lands for the Show Centenary, and the
band visited many homes where the
owners were of Scotch descent. They
also played at the dinner at Dix’s Hotel
on Show night, where a dinkum haggis
figured on the menu.
The Museum staff entertained Dr. and
Mrs. Pearson at an informal tea party
on their return from Europe. Among
interesting people the pair met was the
artist C. W. R. Nevinson, who presented
Dr. Pearson with one of his own paint-
ings for the Art Gallery.
Mrs. Ralph Whishaw, Mrs. Alan Crisp
and Mrs. C. Olney ran a big bridge
party in aid of the Sandy Bay Auxiliary
of the New Hospital, - Mrs. Whishaw
lending her pretty home, Sentosa, foi
the function.
Launceston Players high-water
mark in their production of Evelyn Wil-
liams’s shivery drama “Night Must Fall’
at the National Theatre recently. Her-
bert Gray, who played Dan, the mur-
derer, had the advantage of repeating
his role, having played it lately in Holly-
wood with the repertory co. there. Mrs.
Kevrall Mclntyre was producer, and
turned out a first-rate show. After the
show the Mclntyres entertained a party
at a buffet supper at their own home.
Dorothy Wyly (Launceston) goes to
England by the Italian boat Remo to
take up a job as sec. to the London repre-
sentative of the A.B.C. She has been
doing similar work in Melbourne for the
last few months. Before settling down
in London, she will do a bit of sight-
seeing with the Don von Bibras, who are
enjoying a European trip.
Josephine Bjelke-Petersen, daughter of
Mrs. Wilson-Williams and the late J.
Bjelke-Petersen, and Dr. Hugh Douglas
Gordon, Castle Douglas, Scotland, an-
nounce their engagement.


An INTERESTING and
LUCRATIVE CAREER for
Ambitious Youths.
RADIO RADIO RADIO
Complete THEORETIC AC and PRACTICAL
instruction for RADIO ENGINEERS, TECH-
NICIANS (P.M.G. Broadcast Station Operators’
Certificate), OPERATORS (P.M.G. Commercial
and Aircraft Operators’ Certificate), RADIO
SERVICE MECHANICS, TALKING-PICTURE
OPERATORS.
Preliminary theoretical instruction by correspondence,
then practical tuition on standard commercial stations
at the Marconi School of Wireless and A.W.A. Radio
Centres.
Practical instruction for all courses is available at
the Sydney School. Melbourne School trains Marine
and Aircraft Wireless Operators only.
Write, call or ’phone for 44-page illustrated
prospectus.
MARCONI SCHOOL OF
WIRELESS.
!)7 Clarence Street, SYDNEY - - 8W2211
163 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - - E 4161
Conducted under the auspices of Amalgamated
Wireless (A/sia), Ltd., Australia’s national wireless
organisation., -
Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of W.A. . . .
Listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West • . .
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
Will ; am Street,
Perth.
Western Australia.
Tiff
EMPIRES MILLIONS
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Twin Doublet with Alterna-
tive Phasing.
One of the simplest yet most effective
aerial systems for transmission and re-
ception on short waves is the twisted
pair doublet. Apart from those systems
designed for wide frequency response in
reception, the fundamental half-wave
doublet, as fed in the centre by a twisted-
pair line of impedance near enough to
effect a reasonable match, is strictly a
one-band aerial. The amateur uses it
with conspicuous success on 20 metres,
and, although a certain amount of
Fig. 1. —The two doublet aerials are suspended end-to-end
with feeder lines of equal length.
directivity is obtainable from such a sys-
tem erected approximately one half-wave
above earth, the polar diagram is such
as to render it more or less omni-direc-
tional. This makes the twisted-pair doub-
let very suitable for general communi-
cation or reception from all directions
where aerial space is limited. In most
cases a length of about 70ft. is available
in one direction or the other, and so
advantage is taken of this to erect a sys-
tem which, at 20 metres, is either effec-
tive as two half-waves in phase if centre-
fed, or as one full-wave with four lobes
at approximately 40deg. if end- or single-
wire-fed in an unbroken length.
The single-wire-feed method has the
advantage that such an aerial can be used
as a half-wave on 40 metres. Another
method of feeding a 67ft. length of wire
for 20-metre operation is by twisted-pair
at a point one-quarter wave from one
end. In this case, the aerial is a four-
lobe type, but can be used only on 20
metres. Four-direction coverage as a
lull-wave aerial on 20 metres and half-
wave coverage on 40 metres is also
obtainable by the use of a tuned feeder
of the Zepp type at one end.
It is apparent that with a 67ft. “top” it
would be an advantage to be able to
change the radiation pattern at will from
Fig. 2. —The connection scheme to transmitter and
receiver.
the full-wave to that of two half-waves
in phase, the latter having a great ad-
vantage in considerably increased gain
with broadside directivity.
An ingenious scheme has been worked
out by English amateurs G2XD and
GSZJ, in which two half-wave twisted-
pair doublets are used together for 20-
metre operation, and in which the phas-
ing can be changed at will at the operat-
ing position. Fig. 1 shows how the two
doublets are erected. Each is .97 of a
half-wave in length and supported, end-
to-end, by an insulator, as shown. As
the matching triangle is 4|in. in each
doublet, this amount of spacing is used
for the insulation between the two
aerials. The feeder line used in each case
is of 80 ohms impedance, and the EOl
type now available in Australia would
be suitable. The originators state that
with 100 ft. length of feeder in each case
the losses are negligible at 20 metres,
using an 80 - ohm
Belling-Lee cable.
The twin feeders
are brought into the
transmitter and con-
nected in series. By
reversing one feeder
the phase is reversed
in one aerial so that
the polar pattern is
changed. Fig. 2
shows how this is
arranged in the
operating - room. A
two-pin socket is used
in series with one
feeder side from one doublet, and
the two feeders from the other doublet
are plugged in as required. It is a simple
matter to remove this plug and replace
it with the pins in the opposite sockets.
A double-pole double-throw switch
is necessary to change from trans-
mitter to receiver, but the wire feeders
should be splayed as little as possible.
The feeder lengths from the two
aerials should be as symmetrical as
possible, even if one feeder has to be
made longer than is necessary
given a special “detour” in order to
get them both the same length.
Furthermore, the feeders should not
in any circumstances be coiled. If
one feeder is longer than the other, the
aerial works best in phase and is not at
all directional out of phase. If the
doublets are quite symmetrical they will
both draw the same amount of load cur-
rent, but if they have been affected by the
closeness of any large object, such as a
house, the nearest to the object will
need to be pruned for resonance.
Tests with this aerial scheme from
an English location show it to be very
effective. With the aerials in phase with
a 90-deg. broadside beam in the direc-
tion of S. Africa, a field strength of
64db. was reported. With the link
reversed, putting the
aerials out. of phase
with four lobes of ap-
proximately 36 deg.,
the signal strength at
the S. African end
dropped to 43db. An
ordinary aerial 138 ft. in
length was tested for
comparison, and with
this the strength re-
port was 52db., show-
ing that the phased
system is much better.
GSZJ states further
that the aerial is parti-
cularly suitable for
working with Austra-
lians, for more often
than not they cannot
be heard on the long wire aerial, whereas
they are QSAS on the twin-doublet.
D.B.K.
Cricket Tests —and Radio
Peace.
Linda P. Littlejohn writes: Before
the next Test match would you mention
the thoughtlessness of radio users who
tune in their machines so loudly that they
disturb other persons who, though in-
terested in cricket, do not wish to sit
up till 3.30 a.m.? It is just as easy to
enjoy the broadcasts without permitting
blaring sounds to extend beyond four
walls. It is the custom in many small
flats to turn on the receiver in the sitting-
room, and go to bed to listen. This
accounts for the preponderance of
volume. It would not be a bad idea
for announcers to say something like this
at 11.30: “We hope you are enjoying this
cricket broadcast. Are you sure your
radio is not tuned so loudly that it may
be annoying your neighbors?”
Amateur Chatter.
English amateur stations working on
20 metres are causing interference to the
London television programmes. The
third harmonic of the 20-metre signals
comes in between the sound and vision
frequencies, and owing to the flatness
of tuning in the average television re-
ceiver considerable interference is often
caused. The problem is a difficult one,
and amateur stations in certain parts of
the country have been asked to cease
transmission at periods when viewers
are using their television receivers. And
so the amateur now has added to his
BCL QRM bogey the new BTV (broad-
cast television viewer) QRM ! Rigor-
Commercial manager of Mallard’s Aus-
tralian radio concern, J.Q. Rubie beams
out on a world he finds a happy sort of
place. From school in Sydney he went
to the R.A. Naval College, but the sea
didn’t hold his interest long. Now when
he’s not pushing his co.’s valves he makes
time to help the surf lifesaving people
along, to give a hand as alderman on
Randwick ( N.S.W .) Council, and to cart
a golf bag round the links.
ous suppression of harmonic radia-
tion will be imperative for amateur
stations in the near future, but mean-
while many broadcasting stations could
get busy with the elimination of their
harmonics from the international short-
wave broadcasting and amateur bands.
Australia suffers badly in this respect.
A noticeable feature of many W
’phones on 20 is their deep speech tone.
While this may be desirable at close
range, by the time the signal reaches
this side of the Pacific reverberation in
speech, accentuated by too much bass in
the tone level, makes it scarcely intel-
ligible in some cases, although the station
may run an R max. signal. Most VKs,
perhaps through lack of expensive
modulation equipment, have a high
speech level, which may be the reason
why so many Americans are astonished
at the ease with which VKs can be
copied with such comparatively low
power. More “high” than “low” in
speech transmission seems to be the
thing for DX ’phone.
American ’’phones on 20 have been
romping into Australia recently, and con-
tacts have been easy during the late
evening. On week-end afternoons, how-
ever, it is a different story. Then the
American ’phone channel is a wailing
din. Outside the American channel the
medley is taken up by VK ’phones, and
to find a European at the peak period
is a tough job. Further, many W key
stations will persist in answering VKs
who call plainly and deliberately for
Europe, and by the time the answering
callsign is found to commence with a
W, the G who may have been answering
the call has “gone over,” and the con-
tact is lost.
The writer hooked up with WBANO,
of Vermillion, Ohio, on 20-metre phone
the other night, and learnt that in U.S.A.
the five-metre band is at present wide
open, nightly contacts of up to 1000
miles being commonplace. At WBANO s
suggestion a test was arranged with
VK2NO on five metres for the follow-
ing night. Commencing at 11 a.m., Syd-
ney time, five-minute calling and listen-
ing periods were alternated, and after
each five-minute call from this end a
weak and unidentifiable ICW signal
with a stable carrier was heard appar-
ently answering. Weak modulation depth
of the ICW rendered the Morse charac-
ters unreadable, and at present it is un-
known where this originated. Contact
has not since been made on 20 with
WBANO, so that any possible results
at that end are also unknown as yet.
The yearly opening up of five metres
in U.S.A. in May and June is interest-
ing enough to prompt concerted activity
in Australia during September to Janu-
ary, when similar summertime con-
ditions must prevail over this continent.
Interesting news is that W6BKY, of
Whittier, Sth. California, is to make an
onslaught on five-metre .DX very shortly.
“Johnny” told the writer, per 20 metres,
that reasonably high power with crystal
control will be fed to a tiltable
rhombic aerial on five metres.
W6BKY has the most powerful W 6
signal heard in Australia, so that his
attention to five metres with an
array directed on Australia is par-
ticularly encouraging.
Following on several interesting
articles in “Radio” and “QST” on
aerial directivity, the much-boosted
“half-waves in phase” systems should
go overboard in favor of close-spaced
elements out of phase. A half-wave
radiator with a closely spaced director
is evidently more effective as a low-angle
radiator than a half-wave with reflector
spaced one quarter-wave or two half-
waves in phase. The vertical WBJK
type seems to be particularly suitable
for five metres, and it is of interest to
recall that, when VK2NO was heard
in Wellington (M.L.) on five-metre C.W.
a year ago, this form of array was in
use. It will promptly be re-erected with
extra sections for a still lower vertical
angle. This array was described in B.
3/11/’37.
VK2NO.
What's What in Radio.
Stations W2XAF and W2XAD at
Schenectady, New York, will shortly
have new plant in operation for short-
wave broadcasting. The power will be
approximately 120 kilowatts, thus mak-
ing them the most powerful short-wave
radio-telephony transmitters in the world.
❖ * * *
The new Indian station, VUD2, Delhi,
can now ba heard well in Australia on
31.28 metres on week-days between 0230
and 0400 G.M.T.
Radiotips.
“W3AOC”: Greatly-increased flexi-
bility in the speech amplifier can be had
by bringing all important points in the
circuit out to jacks and using flex cords
for connections. A few of the circuits
that might be jacked in this way are:
Output of microphone transformer, pick-
up, input of each mixer channel, mixer


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month: 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number ; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
ULTIMATE RADIO:
By comparative tests, extending over several months, we now claim for the 1938
series that, model for model, they will outperform in their distance-getting ability,
tone and economy any other make now selling on the Australian market.
* *
Ultimate’s new “Regent”
cabinet, made of butt Ameri-
can walnut veneer and
finished to a high lustre by
genuine French polishing.
Overall measurements of this
cabinet are 38in. high, 30in.
wide and 15in. deep.
*«
m
a
* *
Sixty seconds after. you see
an Ultimate Radio you will
realise that no ordinary
standards suffice for their
skilled engineers. They go
far beyond the requirements
of ordinary radios to produce
a musical instrument of rare
quality and performance.
SIX-GANG SPINNER TUNING EXCLUSIVE TO ULTIMATE!
in a while radio takes a step forward, not only in cabinet design, but also in regard to technical points.
Now to match the beauty of Ultimate’s new “Regent” cabinet finished in rich, highly-figured butt American
walnut Ultimate engineers have perfected a circuit to use a 6-gang tuning condenser (replacing the 2- and 3-gang
conventional type) fitted with a planetary-motion spinner unit.
other receiver has all the features any one Ultimate model incorporates... so no other receiver can
' possibly give you the peerless performance that is yours to enjoy with an Ultimate.
1938 FEATURES INCLUDE: All-wave reception, 320-degree dial, planetary-motion spinner tuning, separate
jogging hand pointer, volume-control indicator, 10-inch Rola reproducers, switches incorporated on volume
controls, bandspread tuning, iron-cored coils and I.F. transformers, etc.
Sole Australian Concessionaires:
GEO. BROWN & CO.
Pty. Ltd.
Electrical and Industrial Engineers,
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
’Phones: M 2544 (3 lines).
Telegraphic Address: Brownlock.
RUSH COUPON FOR FURTHER DETAILS
Please send me, without obligation, details of the
Special New De Luxe ULTIMATE RECEIVERS.
NAME .
ADDRESS
(State whether battery or electric.)
output, speech-amplifier input, speech-
amplifier output, line -to - modulators,
drivers and output of receiver. By using
jacks with the proper contact arrange-
ments the circuit may be wired so that
normal operation is obtained without the
use of flex cords. The latter can then be
used for making any desired change in
the circuit at a moment’s notice.
Short-wave Coils.
There are still thousands of receivers
for short waves using plug-in type coils.
The average experimenter prefers the
slight annoyance to possible interaction
troubles between coils using switches. If
rotating coil turrets were readily avail-
able, no doubt more home-made
“switched” receivers would be seen.
Illustrated is a useful point to remember
about plug-in short-wave coils.
Invariably the practice is to mount the
coil sockets on stand-off supports so that
grid connections will be as short as pos-
sible in tuned circuits. This is good prac-
tice, but often the coils themselves have
long grid leads. Many constructors
wind the turns of wire for grid and plate
coils in the first position on the former
that occurs to them (A), with the result
that the grid windings may be finally
somewhere near the top of the former.
Thus between the termination of the
windings and the pins of the plug-in coil
there may be an inch or so of unwanted
wire, a serious matter, especially below
20 metres.
In the case of coils intended for the
20-metre range the actual coil may only
have three or four turns, but the inclusion
of the long leads inside the former makes
the coil almost equal to a five- or six-
turn coil. B shows the better way to go
about plug-in coil winding. Arrange the
windings as near to the pins as possible.
Many short-wave receivers fail to cover
a specified range by treating coils as in
A, and short-wave superhets often run
into tracking troubles for the same
reason.
Trade Notes.
The well-known Yaxley potentiometer,
manufactured in Australia by E.T.C. In-
dustries, has been redesigned and im-
proved. The use of a new nickel-silver
alloy in the construction of the contact
arm permits superior contact between
roller and element, decreasing noise-level
and increasing the life of the element.
One-third increased thickness and use of
a new material in one of the bakelite
units result in higher Q factor and
greater stability. A special brass alloy
is used for the new bushing.
New Radiotron Valves.
A complete series of 6.3-volt .15-
ampere heater valves is now available in
the Radiotron range. These are intended
for use in receivers operating from a
six-volt or 12-volt supply where a reason-
ably heavy current is practicable, but
where there is need for greater economy
than is given by the heavier-drain types
“In continuation of our radio trials, Peggy Brighteyes will now play that grand old bush ballad Wrap Me
Up in My Stockwhip and Blanket .’”
commonly used in A.C. receivers. It is
now possible to construct a five-valve
receiver using indirectly-heated valves
and drawing only .75 ampere at 6.3 volts.
It is not anticipated that these valves
will be very widely used where it is neces-
sary to transport accumulators for re-
charging, since the two-volt battery series
provides equivalent performance for less
than one-third of the filament current
drain.
The new range comprises 6DBG con-
verter, 6G6G power pentode, 6LSG
general-purpose triode, 6N5 magic-eye
tuning indicator, 6S7G super-control
R.F. pentode and 6T7G duo-diode high
mu triode.
There are also two twin triodes, each
fitted with two units having similar
heaters; but the total output current is
twice as great, since the two are con-
nected in parallel. These are 6CBG twin-
triode amplifier and 6Z7G twin-class B
amplifier, both 6.3 volts at .3 ampere.
A new valve for television work is the
1851, an amplifier pentode with a mutual
conductance of 9000 micromhos. Also
available are the 922 and 923 photo-tubes
of the cartridge types, with mounting
sockets.
The Question Box.
(1) Would it be worth while altering an old
T.R.F. four-valve battery set, using PM 254,
PM 3, PM 3 and PM4DX valves, for straight-
out short-wave reception ? (2) Is it possible
to supply filament current at four volts from
the Philips B eliminator? (3) Is the filament
current to the four-volt rectifier valve in the
B eliminator A.C. or D.C.? —682.
(1) Depends upon the suitability of parts.
The variable condensers would probably be of
little use for short-wave tuning and new low-
loss condensers with ceramic or trolitul insu-
lation are advisable. The set could be com-
pletely rebuilt with separately-tuned R.F. stage,
regenerative triode detector and two audio
stages, but again new valves would most likely
be needed. (2) No. (3) Alternating current.
{“Radio News” continued on next page.)


I:
mm
I *
IP
3
«: i
s*
ssss®
iii¥
1W
m
A
mmM:
The largest AlUAustralian
Organisation in the Mot
Industry
THE PEOPLE OF AUSTRALIA have realised the splendid economic and social advantages
of having in their midst a vast organisation for assembling, producing and distributing motor
cars—an organisation that is 100% Australian, that does not permit people living outside
Australia to hold shares, receive profits or become directors.
The distributors of Chrysler, Chrysler-Plymouth, Dodge and De Soto cars, and of Dodge and Fargo
Trucks in every State in Australia, are the members of this Company named Chrysler Dodge
Distributors (Australia) Pty. Ltd. which has been established as an All-Australian enterprise to co-
ordinate the interests of its members so that they are able to offer the
public the greatest All-Australian motor car and truck value. The
Company is financially associated with the extensive bodyworks of
T. J. Richards & Sons Ltd., and Richards Safe-T-Steel Bodies are fitted
to all units these members distribute.
The members of Chrysler Dodge Distributors (Australia) Pty. Ltd. have
a combined investment of over £3,000,000, directly employ over 5,000
Australians and indirectly give employment to tens of thousands more
who are engaged in the manufacturing and supplying of materials and
parts and in the distribution of cars and trucks throughout their nation-
wide dealer organisation.
CHRYSLER DODGE DISTRIBUTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
vuvuisnv m
So that the public can identify the genuine
Richards Safe-T'Steel Body made expressly
to the order of Chrysler Dodge Distributors
(Australia ) Pty. Ltd., this seal is affixed to the
safety glass'windscreen. You will recognise it
as a mark of the All-Australian Organisation.
Distributor Members for Victoria:
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd.,
Lane’s Motors Pty., Ltd.
Automobiles Pty., Ltd.
Distributor Members for Queensland:
Austral Motors Pty., Ltd.
Stradbroke Motors Pty., Ltd.
Distributor Members jor New South Wales:
Harden & Johnston, Limited.
York Motors Pty., Ltd.
Buckle Motors (Trading Co.) Pty., Ltd.
Distributor Members jor South Australia:
Way mouth Motor Co., Ltd.
Flinders Motor Company.
Distributor Members for Western Australia:
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.
Wentworth Motors, Limited.
Distributor Members for Tasmania:
Co-operative Motors, Ltd.
Metro Motors Pty., Ltd.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd.
An English Amateur Station—
G8LP.
One of the most consistent English
amateur ’phone stations heard by Aus-
tralians is GBLP, operated by H. G.
Hanley, of 20 Uplands-avenue, Brad-
more, a suburb of Wolverhampton,
Staffordshire. Although the callsign,
being in the English 8 series, is com-
paratively recent, Hanley was one of the
earliest English amateurs. During the
war he served as marine wireless officer
with the Marconi Co., and immediately
afterwards went on the air in South-
port, Lancs, as GSAW. In 1920 Hanley
was, with The Bulletin’s radio editor,
a foundation member of the old South-
port Wireless Experimental Society,
which was later affiliated with the Lon-
don Wireless Club before the establish-
ment of the Radio .Society of Great
Britain.
The equipment at GBLP is located in
a specially designed radio room arranged,
as the illustration shows, with typical
English neatness. On the operating
table on the left can be seen an RME-69
receiver, which is probably one of the
reasons why GBLP hears 20-metre Aus-
tralians so frequently. Two transmit-
ters are seen, the one to the right being
a smaller type with 20 watts input, using
a 59 tritet and 46 P.A. with Class B
modulation from a 53 triode driving a
53 modulator. This little transmitter
worked all continents on telephony pre-
vious to 1938. The new transmitter in
the centre is used with power up to
100 watts, valves being 6L6G, T2O and
Interior of H.G. Hanley’s amateur station, G8LP, in Staffordshire, England.
T 55 final. As GBLP says, modulation
is the “Aussie Class AB system,” with
57, 56, 46 and PP 46’s.
The aerial in use at present is a half-
wave dipole fed with 72 : ohm twisted
pair, and the V at the top is only a 3in,
triangle. Two masts support this aerial,
47ft. high.
Hanley’s most consistent Australian
contacts have been VKs 3KX, 3ZZ and
2XU, and VK2NO has been in com-
munication on several occasions, thus
renewing an old friendship. That GBLP s
signal covers the world is evident by
his recently working the Pitcairn Island
station in mid-Padfic on telephony;
quite an achievement from England.
The QSL cards on the wall testify to
many world-wide contacts, and during
holidays GBLP makes a point of visiting
personally many Continental amateui
contacts, being as this is written at statioi
LAIG in Norway.
D.B.K.
Matching Microphones and
Pickups.
Confusion is sometimes caused through
the use of the term “matching” in con-
nection with the output loads of micro-
phones and pickups. The output load
into which either of these devices should
work has no definite relation to the in-
ternal impedance of the unit: a micio-
phone may have an internal impedance
of 20,000 ohms and be worked into a
load of five megohms. Information on
most devices of this nature is provided
by manufacturers, and attention should
be paid in the design of any equipment
to the correct load into which it should
work. For the purpose of such appli-
cations the internal resistance may be
treated as having no bearing on the
working conditions. The output voltage
or level of the device is usually given
when operating into the correct or recom-
mended load resistance.
V.C.


EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants, in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
COMPANY, LTD,
“THE A.C.A.”
Assurance
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
annual report see “Bulletin,” 25/11/’36.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agendas Throughout the States’.
PROFITS IN PIG-RAISING.
“Berkshire”: Those points about profits
in pig-raising all depend on balanced
rations ; of course, I know that pigs must
be fed properly, and I can tell you that
I’ve been getting large and healthy litters,
and losses before weaning have been re-
duced to a minimum since I paid more
attention to the mineral part of the ration.
In fact, my pigs are now profitable. I
don’t believe in keeping good things to
myself; I’m feeding Tri-cal-os Bone
Flour—told you about it before. Get
the folder about Tri-cal-os for pigs from
DAVIS GELATINE (Australia)
PTY., LTD., Sydney.
Old Farmer.
m.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Fat-lamb Standardisation.
“Ghanam”: Though N. S. Wales pro-
duces the greater number of the fat lambs
exported from Australia (45 p.c.) only
25 p.c. of those which pass through
Homebush abattoirs are first-grade ac-
cording to Australian Meat Council
figures, and the council has begun a
standardisation campaign aimed to pro-
duce the kind of lamb which English
buyers look for.
The number of pure-breds suitable for
fat-lamb production is limited. There
are fewer than 700,000 sheep of breeds
other than merino in N. S. Wales, and
the proportion is even less in some other
States. The objective of the council
will be to recommend breeds which are
suitable for producing fat crossbreds.
Presumably the suggestions will be based
on climatic conditions, since a large
number of English breeds are included
in the list. It is difficult to under-
stand why this is necessary. It
would be better to take the British
ideal, Sduthdowns, and acclimatise
them to various conditions. Aus-
tralian wool would not have earned its
high reputation if there had been a mul-
titude of breeds, and the same thing is
true of Danish pork. It must apply to
the lamb business -if we are to make a
success of it.
Footrot Control.
“Teg”: “Corriedale’s” system of pad-
dock control (B. 1/6/’3B) has been tried
with success on the lighter Western Dist.
(Vic.) merino country, where infected
sheep may be isolated on high or stony
ground ; but the profitable fattening of
sheep on heavily-stocked marsh lands,
where footrot infection often runs to
80-90 p.c., calls for a different technique
Experiments with “clean sheep on clean
pasture” on this type of country show
that the organism may lie dormant in
the pasture indefinitely. In the Riverina
(N.S.W.) sheep have developed footrot
on bone-dry red soil plains, over 100
miles away from the lignum country
where they were infected. This has given
rise to the theory that external treat-
ment may merely drive the germ into
the sheep’s bloodstream. No one, of
course, can speak with certainty on the
probable behavior of an unidentifiable
microbe.
Circling Disease.
“Albarmount”: “Warramulla’s” sheep
(B. 8/6/’3B) may have had circling
disease (bacterial encephalitis). Sheep of
any age are susceptible, and animals so
affected mostly die within a week.
Usually the head is raised and slightly
turned to one side ; the mucous mem-
branes of the eyelids become congested,
one worse than the other; the sheep
moves round in circles, with the bad eye
on the inner side. The circuit narrows
as the intensity of the disease increases,
till the animal merely turns round and
round. Finally, unable to stand, it lies
down and dies.
Post-mortems reveal no apparent de-
fects, except that the cerebrospinal fluid
is more or less cloudy instead of clear.
The spinal canal should be tapped at
the first neck bone, care being taken
not to allow blood to mix with the fluid.
Cases have been definitely diagnosed
In Maoriland, but none in Australia yet.
Vets, believe the disease does occur
here, but owing to its short duration and
the fact that only odd sheep become
affected growers do not bother to report.
Rugs for Starving Sheep.
“Corriedale”: The main reason sheep
die at this time of year in bad spells is
because they cannot get enough carbo-
hydrate to keep warm. Once wet —and
20 points can do it—<—the fleece holds
“Wotever y' do, Ma, don't 'it Nellie!"
water for days. Gold gets to the skin of
a wet sheep, which it cannot affect other-
wise.
If the fleece is protected from rain
the value of food is not being used to
promote warmth. If a rug can throw
rain off the back, it is worth 4oz. of
grain to the sheep each rainy day.
Another advantage is that a rug helps
to make the yolk rise, so improving its
quality. It may also reduce the degree
of “break.”
Who Invented the Stripper?
F. J. Wise, the Westralian Minister of
Agriculture, rightly claims for this, coun-
try the invention of the stripper, the com-
bined harvester and the stump-jump
plough. Dr. G. L. Sutton, who was Mr.
Wise’s Director of Agriculture, has gone
patiently into the vexed question of who
invented the stripper, and a brochure he
wrote has been reprinted as a W.A. Agri-
cultural Department publication. The
researches of this eminent authority con-
vinced him that the following facts have
been definitely established:
In 1842 the shortage of labor for har-
vesting the expanding wheat crops in South
Australia was so serious that agricultural
development must have ceased, or at least
slowed down, unless mechanical means were
discovered to do the work for which suffi-
cient manual labor was not available.
A committee was formed to examine and
judge models of harvesting machines, a
prize being offered.
In September, 1843, 16 competitors sub-
mitted models. John Wrathall Bull was
one of those competitors. John Ridley
was not a competitor, but it was announced,
on his behalf, that he was devising and
constructing a machine for harvesting crops.
Each of the 16 models, except that of
J. W. Bull, had some type of cutting device
for reaping, whereas Bull’s model incor-
porated the principle of the “comb and
beaters”; and comb and beaters, designed
to gather the grain from the standing crop
without cutting or reaping the stalk, is the
fundamental of the stripper.
The committee did not award the prize
to any competitor. Ridley, present when
it examined the 16 models, saw Bull’s
model and heard Bull’s explanation of the
principle of the comb and beaters.
In October, 1843, a machine constructed
by Ridley was given a trial. It was not
successful, but Ridley submitted another
machine, which, tested in November, 1843,
proved successful. That machine was the
forerunner of the stripper.
In effect, Bull was the first to conceive
and explain the principle of the comb
and beaters; and Ridley was the first to
embody the principle in a working
machine. Together, says Mr. Sutton, they
“rendered conspicuous service to South
Australia and later to Australian agricul-
ture. They are entitled to share jointly
ip the honor which is fully merited by
that service, the importance of which to
Australian agriculture can hardly be
exaggerated.”
Grasshoppers Arrive.
i “J.C.W.”: Throughout the west sec-
tion of the Coonabarabran (N.S.W.) P.P.
Board’s district, grasshoppers have estab-
lished extensive eggbeds. The present
swarms are threatening crops,
and if the large eggbeds hatch a huge
plague will spread through the central-
west next spring.
The ’hoppers came from the north
and north-west, where control was lax,
but Coonabarabran board has introduced
emergency measures by opening poison-
bran-bait depots at Yearinan, Bugaldie
and Tooraweenah. Large quantities of
bait have been distributed.
After Tick Fever.
“Zedo”: A recent Queensland Agri-
cultural Department bulletin remarks
that, though inoculation for tick fever is
common in the North, few cattlemen
understand that under. favorable condi-
tions a vaccine may kill the treated beast.
Old fat bulls are likely to suffer par-
ticularly, because age reduces power to
resist germs, in what is in effect a battle
between animal and an invader. Once
the animal wins, it becomes immune, but
it needs every help if it is to come through.
Cattle should have quiet after inoculation.
They should not be driven or trained
until they have recovered from the worst
of a mild attack of fever. Cows carry-
ing calves should not be inoculated un-
less it is urgent.
One of the most useful developments
in recent years has been the use of the
drug caprin, which should always be
kept handy when inoculating. A dose is
called for as soon as inoculated animals
. show signs of sickness.
Ringbarking Points.
“Cockyson”: Don’t ring everything
as you go along, regardless of whether
the sap is up or down. It will mean much
suckering and subsequent desuckering.
Different timbers flower at dif-
ferent periods, and the best
practice is to ring just before the
trees are about to break into
bloom, when the sap is well up.
Most wattles will wither in a month
if rung when tl*e trees are in bud, and
in 12 months or so small trees can be
pushed over when the soil is rain-soaked.
Some trees, including brushwood box
(known as supplejack in some parts), can’t
be killed out by ringing, no matter when
they are rung. Poisoning is the only
remedy. It should be done when the
trees are dormant —when the sap is down
and root-growth is being made. Apply
poison in a frill ring low down, the
closer to the ground the better, taking
care that the ringing is thorough and
cuts deeply into the sap.
It pays to ring the different trees in
season, though this may necessitate going
over a paddock half a dozen times. De-
suckering should be attended to before
the shoots harden if the tree is to be
killed.
Walkabout Disease.
“C.ff.”: Very little is known about
walkabout disease, though vet. Murnane,
who went to the Kimberleys in 1927,
found that horses contracted it after eat-
ing whitewood (Atalaya hemiglauca).
This tree, which grows up to 25 feet
high, is cropped level from the ground
early in the dry season. Shortly after-
wards “walkabout” develops. Murnane
produced typical cases at Fitzroy Cross-
ing and in Melbourne by feeding the
plant alone.
The symptoms end in the animal pac-
ing about blindly, charging into trees,
fences, etc., and frequently killing itself
by its violence.
In the Kimberleys, keeping white-
wood away from horses has the disease
under control, but farther east on many
properties horses eat whitewood with
impunity. And instances of the disease
on places where no whitewood is found
have been reported. It is known that the
tree in some districts is not as toxic as
in others, but it seems there is another
plant, still unknown, which is a danger.
It may be the same one that produces
Gilbert River disease.
Sanded Horses.
“Stump Jump”: That milk-and-honey
drench for sanded bowels (B. 26/5/’3B)
(Continued on next page.)


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart. Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; ffm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager — D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book
Ringbarking—Wages . . Page 39
Rations 15
Sheep bought „ 20
Wire netting „ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1938 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
FARMERS!
Concrete Will Increase Your
Properties ’ Earning Capacity
Concrete Piggeries, Hawkesbury
Agricultural College.
Concrete Trough and Fence Posts,
Navua Stud Farm, Richmond.
That Is Why Model Farmers Make Use of It.
FOLLOW THEIR LEAD!
THE AUSTRALIAN CEMENT
MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
43 Margaret Street, Sydney,
WILL GIVE YOU FREE ADVICE.
Write to the association or cement companies in various States for any of
the follow' -7 free booklets: —
Method of Making Concrete.
Concrete Fence Posts.
Concrete Footpaths and Floors.
Concrete Walls and Steps.
Concrete Troughs, Tanks and Wells.
Use of Colour with Cement.
Concrete Blocks, Bricks and Slabs.
Concrete for Farm and Station.
Portland Cement Stucco.
Portland Cement Plaster.
Portland Cement Textures.
Concrete Cricket Pitch.
Concrete Round the Home.
Concrete Silos.
Estimation of Materials for Concrete
and Mortar Simplified.
Concrete Mixing Made Easy.
Leaking Tanks Conquered with Con-
crete.
Concrete Tennis Court.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fane}, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
is, I contend, useless. Honey has only a
slight laxative action, and there is nothing
else in the drench to shift the sand.
An aloes ball, 6 drachms for a small
horse, ranging up to 10 drachms for a
big animal, is as good a remedy as any.
It is the only safe purgative powerful
enough to shift sand, with the possible
exception of turpentine and linseed oil.
The latter are given mixed in doses of
loz. to l|oz. turps (vegetable) and Ipt.
to l|pt. oil, depending again on the size
of the horse.
Oil and turps will purge a horse
relatively early—in about 12 hours —but
aloes may take much longer—up to 40
hours.
Never give a second ball if the first
one seems to have failed. Take the
horse out and exercise briskly for half
an hour.
If these treatments fail call the vet.
Cottonseed Is Not Poisonous.
“Silky Bag”: “Molecule” (B. 26/5/’3B)
is right about cottonseed meal. It is one
of the best feeds, both for food value
and economy.
I fed 41b. cottonseed meal daily to
dairy cows during the 1929-30 drought
in Riverina for over a year with an
oaten-lucerne chaff mixture and no other
concentrate, and I can vouch for its
safety. We used it in smaller quantities
as part of the concentrates (11b. to 21b.
daily) for years afterwards until improv-
ing pastures made it unnecessary.
The cows in drought time kept in good
condition —cottonseed is more of a milk-
ing food than a fattener —and produced
2801 b. bf., with no grass at all, in 273
days.
With the exception of peanut-meal
cottonseed is the cheapest protein source
in the south-eastern States. It costs £lO
a ton at ports, and analyses 35 p.c. pro-
tein and 38 p.c. carbohydrate, with 6 p.c.
fat. Bran at £6 a ton usually has only
11 p.c. protein and 40 p.c. carbohydrate.
Even lib. cottonseed meal a day with
21b. of ground oats and chaff is a good
ration for dairy cows on average pas-
tures.
It lacks vitamin A, but this is available
in all the hays, chaffs, fodder crops and
pastures that stock use for roughage.
Its binding effect on bowels is a draw-
back, but when less than 31b. is given
daily this is negligible. If it becomes a
problem, lucerne-hay or green pasture
is a sound, cheap remedy.
Coastal Saltbush.
“Mulyan”: Saltbush is seldom used for
fodder near the coast; yet there are
several varieties which do well there.
The Wentworths planted some of them
at Greendale on the Nepean (N.S.W.) a
century ago.
Grey saltbush, which grows several
feet high, likes the sands of the sea coast.
Cattle quickly fatten on it. It is gasily
grown from either seed or cuttings. The
stalwart-leafed variety, which averages a
couple of feet in height, grows from the
coast to the arid inland. It is a handsome
shrub with silvery leaves and red berries.
Any variety makes a valuable addition
to the pasture. Besides its nutritious
quality and resistance to drought, it re-
duces the need for saline licks, keeps
stock free from disease, and helps to
check bush fires. It flourishes except
on swampy land.
Hints for the Farm.
“Gumblegubbin”: An ounce . of
powdered alum added to each gallon of
whitewash prevents it rubbing off. A
little common soap dissolved in boiling
water gives the wash a gloss. Half a
pint of raw linseed oil to a gallon of
a mixture of sifted lime and rice water
makes a cheap white paint for outside
work.
“S.J.”: “Sandy” (B. 26/5/’3B) uses an
oil-paste for itchy legs in horses under
wet-ground conditions. Better to keep
the legs dry by using powders. Clip the
spots and clean well with soft soap and
water, then rub in thoroughly a fine
powder made of boric acid two parts,
zinc sulphate one part, choretone half
part and iodoform half part. The
iodoform is only used in severe cases
where sores are open.
“Huglow”: To mend small holes in
iron troughs make up a saturated solution
of washing soda and mix in cement to
thick paste. Apply paste thickly over and
around the holes to be mended, then
moisten a piece of unbleached calico and
press it firmly over the cement. Coat
again with cement and another piece of
cloth, then more cement. As the cement
paste sets quickly mix only small quan-
tities at a time, and keep it well stirred.
“E.H.M.”: No doubt those who
acquire ribbons in January and June are
very worthy citizens, but it would be
easy to think of other worthy citizens
who are never remembered on those
occasions. The man who introduced
Gurkha wheat in Victoria and some of
the graziers who are showing the way
in pasture improvement in the drought
areas —these might be worth decorating.
“Yarri”: Last season thousands of
oranges from Leeton were distributed
among children in far-western N.S.W.
towns, and requests have been made for
a similar distribution this year. Yet some
of the best oranges grown in the State
have been produced at Pera Bore, on the
western side of the Darling River. These
are grown by bore water, and samples
not long ago won champion prizes at an
international exhibition overseas. At
Tibooburra I have seen prolific crops
of grapes of the highest quality, the
vines having been irrigated from a dam.
That corner has a rich soil that will grow
nearly any fruit with irrigation.
“Mulyan”: It’s no good growing dif-
ferent varieties of pumpkins together.
Nothing is more easily cross-fertilised.
The flowers have a particular attraction
for bees, and one bee may visit a hun-
dred flowers ; thus a whole crop of several
acres is crossed. The results are good
feed for pigs and cattle, but they won’t
do for cooking ; the best of them de-
teriorate from season to season.
“M.”: Berry (N.S.W.) Child Welfare
Farm now owns the champion three-
year-old A.I.S. yielder, Berry Lovable —
13,639|1b. milk and 618.241 b. butterfat
in 273 days. She was milked three times
a day, and on one day at the height of
her production gave 25jlb. milk in the
morning, 31|lb. at second milking and
28|lb. at the third, a total of 85jlb. Her
ration during her first three months in
milk was 151 b. silage, 51b. meadow hay
and lib. of various concentrates for every
3| gallons of yield. Pasture was pas-
palum and rye, with a dash of clover.
“X.T.”: Flora topped the list among
Queensland wheat varieties last year,
being used for more than half the planted
area. It is a good dry-area wheat. At
Gilgandra (N.S.W.) it recently gave an
11-bushel on 210 points of rain.
It is a medium-strong white of Qiigh
quality.
“C.S.”: W. Helliwell, of Bryan’s Gap,
who took the open fodder conservation
championship of the N.S.W. north-west
division, is an example to small land-
holders. He arrived from England just
before the war, penniless. To-day he
has a registered Jersey stud, improved
pastures, conserved fodder, root and vege-
table crops, and over 300 acres. He took
his place over after others had abandoned
it, worked night and day to get it under
cultivation. Blackberries looked like
beating him. He slashed them down,
burnt them, tethered goats to eat the
shoots. One of the few to introduce the
English method of growing root-crops
for fodder, he proved that a man can
do well on a small area.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is it advisable to let a cow suckle her calf?
—59642.
No. When a cow suckles a calf, she reserves
the major portion of her milk for it. The
usual procedure is to let the calf suck at each
teat for a few mouthfuls, then take the calf
away and milk into a bucket; then the calf
is put on again and gets what is left. The
cow lets down her milk as soon as the calf
has its first suck. This first milk has low fat
content, and the milk given into the bucket is
only half what would be got if the calf were
reared away from its mother. The cow keeps
back a large quantity for the calf’s final feed,
and this contains a much higher fat percentage
than that milked into the bucket.
* * * *
What is a balanced ration for heavy draught-
horses doing exceptionally heavy work without
any green feed? The climate is hot and dry. —
59708.
Try 151 b. chaff, 101 b. oats and 21b. bran.
The amount will vary according to the pecu-
liarities of each horse, but it is always advis-
able to keep the quantities in the right pro-
portion. When horses are not working the oat
content should be reduced by 21b. or 31b.
and substituted with an equivalent amount of
bran.


i
■
1
H
£
II
H
I
A Present with a Future
ROMS
The World’s Best Safety
ROLLS RAZOR CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD.
8A CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA: D. Reddan & Co., 330 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Butler Bros. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., Monarch House, Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornells, Coltons and Hofinungs.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd., Hay Street, Perth.


WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn tarn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne,
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
Ehe right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wapted
to oen or To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (28) wants position in motor
garage anywhere, N.S.W. Own tools, one year’s
experience, good references. Eligible under
Government subsidised trainee apprenticeship
scheme. —9952.
Experienced lady driver, Sydney, available to
drive car long or short trips.—99lB.
Married couple (Queensland) want change.
Wife cook, husband gardener, handyman. Ex-
cellent references.—9944.
German and English words of “The Watch
on the Rhine’’ and of “The Legionnaire Song”
Irorn “The White Horse Inn,” also English of
“Die Lorelei.” —9960.
Words of recitation beginning “Good even-
ing, Mr. Jenkins, your daughter kindly bids
me stay.”—99oB.
Words of “The Shooting of Dan McGrew”
and “The Road to Mandalay.”—993s.
To buy Morley Roberts’s The Promotion of
the Admiral and Other Stories. —9971.
To buy Modern Australian Literature, by
Nettie Palmer. —9970.
To exchange letters with Bulletin readers
between 20 and 30 years, interested in music,
reading and art. (To Teri Greene, 5284 St.
Lawrence-boulevarde, Montreal, Canada.)
Whereabouts of Samuel Wendrim, from Bel-
fast, Ireland. Was ship’s engineer, and is be-
lieved to have settled in Sydney. (Reply to
Mrs. H. A. Sykes, Box 366, Post Office, Atasca-
dero, Cal., U.S.A.).
Information Sought.
What were the bowling figures in 'the Test
matches in Australia in 1936-37 of (1) O'Reilly
and Verity, (2) Voce and Allen when Aus-
tralia scored 58 runs in Brisbane, (3) Voce and
Allen in the second Test at Sydney 3—999B.
Overs. Mdns. Runs. Wkts. Av.
(1) O’Reilly .. 247.6 89 555 25 22.2
Verity .. 195.7 57 455 10 45.5
(2) Voce 6.3 0 16 4 4.0
Allen 6 0 36 5 7.2
(3) Voce 8 1 10 4 2.5
Allen ..5.1 1 19 3 6.3
* * * *
(1) In what completed Test innings between
England and Australia were no sundries re-
corded 3 Who were the wicketkeepers ? (2)
How were the 50 sundries scored by Australia
at The Oval, London, in August, 1934 3—9981.
(1) Australia’s second innings at Melbourne,
January, 1885 (wicketkeeper Hunter); Eng-
land's second innings at Lord’s, July, 1888
(wicketkeeper Blackham); Australia’s first in-
nings at Kennington Oval, London, August,
1890 (wicketkeeper McGregor); Australia’s
second innings at Melbourne, January, 1892
(wicketkeeper McGregor); England’s first in-
nings at Melbourne, 1898 (wicketkeeper Kelly);
Australia’s second innings at Melbourne, 1904
(wicketkeeper Strudwick). (2) 37 byes, 8 leg-
byes, 1 wide, 4 no-balls.
# * * *
Result of Test matches at Nottingham (Eng.)
in 1921, ’26, ’3O and ’343—9963.
1921—England 112 and 147, Australia 232
and 0 for 30; Australia won by 10 wickets.
1926—England 0 for 32 (match abandoned).
1930—England 270 and 302, Australia 144 and
335; England won by 93 runs. 1934—England
268 and 141, Australia 374 and 273 for 8
wickets (declared); Australia won by 238 runs.
* <: * *
Who instituted the Order of Merit? Brief
description of the badge?— 9997.
Edward VII. on June 26, 1902. It carries
no title. The badge is always worn around the
neck, never in miniature. Consists of an eight-
pointed cross of red and blue enamel, with
“For Merit” in gold letters in a laurel wreath
on a blue enamel centre, the whole surmounted
by the Imperial Crown and suspended from a
blue-and-crimson ribbon two inches broad.
(1) Ports of entry in the Gilbert and
Ellice islands colony 3 (2) Sheltered anchor-
ages and those safe in calm weather only? —
9996.
(1) At Ocean Island, Butaritari, Tarawa,
Funafuti and Fanning. No wharves evist where
vessels can berth. (2) At Fanning Island and
in the navigable lagoons of Butaritari, Aoaiang,
Tarawa, Abemama, Nonouti, Funafuti and
Nukufetau. Calm-weather anchorages at Ocean
Island, Little Makin, Marakei, Maiana, Kuria,
Aranuka, Beru, Nikunau, Onotoa, Arorae,
Tamana, Nanomea, Nanomanga, Niutai, Nui,
Nukulaelae and Nurakita.
* * * *
A few details about Tikopia Island? Why
are its inhabitants of particular interest to an-
thropologists? Are they a healthy people? Is
it easily reached 3—9969.
Part of the Santa Cruz group in the Solomon
Islands, it is an extinct volcano crater, three
miles long by two miles wide, 120" miles south-
east from Vanikoro. Population is about 1300.
Its comparative isolation makes its people of
considerable importance in the study of Poly-
nesian culture. They are vigorous, healthy and
increasing. Only means of communication is
by a mission boat which occasionally visits.
Can I get a marriage certificate dated back
so that any children born out of that marriage
will be made legitimate ? —9911.
No, but in N.S.W. provision is made by
legislation that a child born before the mar-
riage of his or her parents shall be deemed, on
registration, to have been legitimised by the
marriage from birth, and shall be entitled to all
privileges and rights of a child born in wedlock.
See the local C.P.S.
* * * *
91 j^ ard wages f° r l‘ft-drivers in Sydney?—
A new award was made recently, but its terms
are not yet settled in accordance with provisions
of the N.S.W. Industrial Arbitration Act. It
is, however, operative from May 30, and any
adjustments in the wages of a lift-driver can be
made after it is published. Prior to the new
award the rate for adult male lift-drivers was
£4 3s. a week. The new award will mean a
slight increase.
* * $ ...
(1) Jewish population of the world? (2) In
what three countries are Jews most numerous?
(3) How many Jews in Germany, France, Eng-
land, Italy, Austria and Rumania ?—' 9979.
(1) 16,240,000, according to a 1937 estimate
by the Jewish Scientific Institute of Warsaw.
(2) United States 4,450,000, Poland 3,150,000,
Russia 3,080,000. (3) Germany 510,000, France
220,000, Great Britain and Northern Ireland
300,000, Italy 47,485, Austria 250,000, Rumania
984,213.
* * * *
(1) What electric current is fatal? (2) Would
a change from 240 to 110 volts A.C. prevent
death by electrocution? (3) What voltage is
used in U.S.A. for the electric chair?—' 9Bs4.
(1) Depends on individual and conditions
and whether current is alternating or direct.
Generally, currents under 25 milliamperes are
harmless, those from 25 to 50 cause injury and
those over 100 are fatal. (2) No, voltages as
low as 75 have caused death. Fifty volts is
usually reckoned as the maximum safe voltage.
(3) 1800 to 2000 volts A.C. for three or four
seconds, then reduced to 500.
* * * *
Particulars of comets seen between 1885 and
1890 ?— 9887.
Between 20 and 30 were observed, but only
two were visible to the naked eye. In 1887 one
was seen in the Southern Hemisphere only. In
1888 another was visible during March and
April, and showed a triple tail. Computations
of its orbit gave a period of 1600 years.
* * * *
Particulars of a wreck on King Island which,
according to an autobiography of a Captain
Underwood, occurred about August, 1884, and
in which 900 lives were lost ? —9820.
Nearest is that of the Cataraqui, an emigrant
ship bound from Liverpool for Melbourne,
which was wrecked on King Island Augut 4,
1845. Four hundred and fourteen perished,
including the captain and all officers, except the
first mate. The disaster occurred on a dark
night on the rocky coast near Cape Wickham,
and the ship soon broke up under a battering
from heavy seas. There were nine survivors,
including one emigrant out of 369.
* * * *
A few particulars about Starr-Bowkett build-
ing societies? —997s.
They are terminating societies, in which the
rights of members to appropriation are deter-
mined by ballot. Usual procedure is that mem-
bers pay a subscription of 6d. per share per
week for 15 years or, in some cases, until the
last appropriation is made, and are entitled to
a loan of £5O in respect of each share held.
Loans are repayable by instalments spread over
10 to 12} years without interest. When
advances have been made to all members wind-
ing-up commences, and share capital is repaid
as repayments on loans accumulate.
* * * *
Qualifications for a job as lady companion ?
Wages? —9B9l.
They vary with the position of the employer.
Usually require a knowledge of household
work and the ability to carry them out
oneself or to direct servants; marketing, needle-
work for simple dressmaking and mending,
sometimes first-aid or junior nursing, ability
to act as an understudy to the mistress; most
necessary of all, tact. Wages are a matter for
arrangement.
* * * *
Particulars of Leon Gellert, poet, who wrote
“Songs of a Campaign” ? —9986.
Son of J. W. Gellert, he was born at Walker-
ville (S.A.) on May 17, 1892, and educated
at Adelaide High School and Adelaide Uni-
versity. He was a teacher in the South Aus-
tralian Education Dept., and served with the
10th Batt., A.1.F., at The Landing at Gallipoli.
In 1917 the Adelaide University awarded him
the Bundley prize for English verse. Since
1922 he has been co-editor, with Sydney Ure
Smith, of “Art in Australia” and the “Home.”
Publications include Isle of San and Desperate
Measures.
* * * *
Information concerning Holloway pennies ?
—9883.
Penny and halfpenny tokens issued by Pro-
fessor Holloway, of London, for advertising
purposes were struck by I. Moore, and are
dated 1857 and 1858. When Australia, Tas-
mania and M.L. used tokens (1850-80) numbers
of Holloway coins were imported and used
with local and other tokens. They are com-
monest of all the token series, and were prob-
ably used in other parts of the Empire where
shortage of copper coin occurred during that
period. Face of the coin bears the head of
Holloway, and reverse side has the seated figure
of Hygeia, goddess of health, with serpent and
other attributes of the cult of health and medi-
cine. Collector value Id. in perfect Mint con-
dition.
* * * *
What stamp, or stamps, were the most
costly to produce? —9999.
“Post-office” Mauritius stamps, of which only
penny and twopenny values were issued. They
were printed singly from the original plate.
The engraver received £lO and the postal
authorities paid the printer 10s. for 1000 stamps,
the face value being only £6 ss. Their present
value is £3500 each.
•jf Jjt
What is Ivnch law and where is it practised?
—9989.
Hanging, without trial, by a mob which has
taken the law into its own hands. Associated
principally with southern U.S.A., where it’s
still resorted to, especially in cases of assaults
by negroes on white women.
* * * *
(1) Origin of the Australian blue cattle-dog ?
(2) Is there any dingo blood in the kelpie? —
9813.
(1) It was bred in 1840 by W. Hall, Muswell-
brook (N.S.W.), who crossed a smooth merle
(blue-spotted) Scotch collie with the dingo. The
cross was brought to Sydney by Alex. Davis in
the ’eighties and made into a pure breed by local
breeders, who crossed it with the Dalmatian
and kelpie. Dingo has been put into it since
by Robert Kaleski and others. (2) The original
Kelpie I. had a dash of dingo; rest smooth-
haired, black and tan, prick-eared Scotch fox-
collies.
* * * *
(1) What is a Diesel engine? (2) What fuel
does it use ?— 9973.
(1) A prime mover actuated by gases re-
sulting from combustion of liquid or pulverised
fuel injected in a state of fine subdivision into
the engine cylinder at or about the end of
the compression stroke. Heat generated by
compression of air in the cylinder is the sole
means of igniting the charge. Combustion
of the charge proceeds at, or approximately at,
constant pressure. (2) Crude and residual
petroleum oils having a sp. gr. of 0.85-0.95 at
60deg. F., a flash point of 150deg.-250deg. F.
and a lower heat value of 18,000-19,000 B.T.U.
per pound; coal tar oils having a'sp. gr. of
1-1.1, a flash point of 400 deg. F. or more, and
a lower heat value, of 16,000 B.T.U. per pound.
* * * *
(1) How to prepare charcoal for use in a gas
producer? (2) Suitable woods? (3) Quantity
of charcoal equivalent to one gallon of petrol?
—9897.
(1) Remove the top of a 44gal. oil drum,
make four holes in the bottom and place over
small trench to allow draught to pass through
them. Fill with 4ft. split timber, light, and
when wood is burning freely turn drum up-
side down and smother after smoke has cleared.
When the charcoal has been riddled it is ready
for use. Special retorts for home use may be
bought from H.S.G. (Aust.), 67 Roden-street,
Melbourne. (2) Almost any timber that is not
fit for more valuable uses. (3) About 151 b.
There is an approximate difference of 35 p.c.
between the calorific values of petrol and char-
coal-gas fuels.
(1) How to prepare sodawater with a seltzo-
gene ? (2) Quantities of tartaric acid and bi-
carbonate of soda required to make a quart of
sodawater ? —9782.
(1) A seltzogene should be accompanied by
a long and a short funnel, a measure, a
stopper and directions. Lower bowl is three-
quarters filled with water, and the acid and
soda are placed in the upper bowl; it is then
closed with the stopper, and left until the next
day. (2) Dissolve 4+ drachms of tartaric acid in
a quart bottle of rainwater and dissolve 6
drachms of finely-powdered bicarbonate of soda
in another similar bottle. Keep both well
corked, and when required pour a wineglass
from each simultaneously into a large glass.
Drink immediately. Same quantities of water,
acid and soda could be tried in a seltzogene.
* * * *
What are the characteristics of the Queens-
land fire-wheel tree? Can it be grown on
N.S.W. coast?— 9B3o.
Stenocarpus sinuatus is a beautifully-foliaged
shrub which attains to 20ft. and carries curious
wheel-shaped trusses of scarlet-crimson “flowers.”
It thrives best in warm climates, but will grow
on the N.S.W. coast if sheltered and protected
for at least two years until it becomes estab-
lished. Staking is necessary in the early stages.
* * %. *
Description of (1) the large duck orchid and
(2) the autumn bird orchid ? (3) Where are they
found in Australia? —9916.
(1) Caleana major carries flowers, which re-
semble flying ducks, on the end of long stems.
Leaves, grass and insects which land on the
“tongue” are carried to the throat and assist
fertilisation. Flowers are cherry-red or yellow,
with red and green markings, and at their best
in spring and early summer. (2) Chiloglottis
reflexa has small greenish flowers, with purplish-
red or pink markings. Petals are reflexed, and
the narrow “tongue” has a broad tip. Flowers
in autumn and spring. (3) N.S.W., Queensland,
Victoria and Tasmania.
* =l= * *
Best way to rid a gravel path of weeds with-
out digging it up? Preparation must be harm-
less to animals and children. —9816.
Cut off the weeds as close to the ground as
possible, then saturate the path thoroughly with
boiling water or sprinkle with agricultural salt
(about 3oz. to the square yard). Treat every
fortnight, and after three months the weed
trouble should be at a minimum.
H» -5* %
Reliable methods of striking roses from cut-
tings? Best time? —99l3.
Place pieces of clean ripened wood about
6in. long in soil containing a big percentage
of sand in a warm section of the garden or
where they are to remain permanently. Leave
some of the “eyes” under the surface, and
firm the soil about the base of the ,
Roses can also be struck under a glas -
if the soil is kept very moist. Autumn pre-
ferably, but cuttings can be grown up to me
end of June. Rooted plants will be ready to
shift in March of next year.
Brief Answers.
R.P.: (1) Under the N.S.W. Metropolitan
Water, Sewerage and Drainage Act the boara
has power to construct sewers through private
property. (2) Board should restore any super-
ficial damage. (3) Manholes and ventilators are
essential parts of the sewer. Under certain con-
ditions the board msy pay compensation. You
could make a claim... .W.A.W.: Parlo-
phone A 5009, “Die Lorelei,”
the Berlin Union of Teachers’ Choir....
H.H.H.: Representatives of shire councils
on N.S.W. Noxious Plants Advisory Com-
mittee are B. P. Bell, Hume shire, Albury,
J. J. Walsh, Mulwaree shire, Goulburn, and
A. B. Bluett, Shires Association secretary ....
J.W.: No vacancies in Airlines of Australia at
present. Write other aviation cos N.M.F.:
Mitchell Library, Sydney, might help....
A.M.D.: Consult leading Adelaide booksellers
and the Adelaide Public Library. .. .A.H.: The
Bulletin Reciter and The Bulletin Book of
Humorous Recitations are obtainable from the
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney R. 8.: Write
Defence Dept., Melbourne... .L.A.K.: (1)
Applications have been invited on several
occasions by Commonwealth Government de-
partments at Canberra for female librarians,
in some cases French and German have been
qualifications; in others “knowledge of foreign
languages” was asked for. (2) Normal method
is by competitive examinations, as notified from
time to time. Women are recruited as typists,
machinists, telephonists, female assistants,
statistical tabulators or as searchers in the
Trade-marks Branch. Subjects in any such
examinations do not include foreign languages.
Write Secretary, Commonwealth Public Ser-
vice Board, Canberra... .M.P.: Yes, executors
have a several (separate) authority as well as
joint authority in dealing with assets of an
estate. Where there is more than one executor
all must be joined as plaintiffs in bringing any
action with regard to the estate.... G.S.A.: F. W.
Preece and Sons, 34 King William-street, Adel-
aide, published Price’s Foundation and Settle-
ment of Soutlb Australia. Book is still in print
and obtainable from that firm; price 12s. 6d.
L.H.: An international money-order would
do. Apply any money-order office... .T.M.M.:
Not in N. S. Wales, but legislation in that
direction is being contemplated... .G.J.A.C.:
If single or a widower and living permanently
on the property and not in possession of any
other, you are, on property qualifications, en-
titled to a maximum pension of £52 per annum.
If it is not a home property that pension would
be subject to a deduction of £1 for every com-
plete £lO by which net value of the property
exceeds £5O. Possession of property worth
£4OO or more would disqualify you for a pen-
sion... .J.L.G.: Wire-haired fox terriers are
obtainable in Sydney from W. Croston, 37
Hillcrest-street, Punchbowl; F. Hilton, 110 Per-
cival-street, Stanmore; J. Hope-Allan, 37 The
Parade, Enfield; and W. J. Murray, 67 West-
bourne-street, Kogarah. At least five guineas
for a well-bred specimen... .Mac: Yes, can
only be omitted at very informal functions
where labor and expense are reduced to a
minimum... .D’A.W.: Michelangelo’s frescoes
on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, Rome,
deal mainly with the story of the Creation and
Fall and include several representations of Eve.
She is portrayed as a normal female figure....
A.C.L.: Complete restoration no job for an
amateur. Acids used for removing ink would
remove more color. Much depends on quality
of paper and method of printing illustrations.
If book is valuable, submit it to a professional
restorer; if not, clean pages with art-gum....
G.L.C.: Thos. Cook, Berkeley-street, London,
W. 1... .J.D.W.: A Policy for the Common-
wealth, by James Edmond, was a series of
articles reprinted from The Bulletin. It was
published in 1900, and is now out of print;
occasionally a second-hand copy can be picked
up E.A.: California, first settled in 1769,
was politically associated with Mexico until
1846, when on July 7 the American flag was
hoisted at Monterey, and a proclamation issued
declaring California to be part of the' U.S.
On Feb. 2, 1848, by the treaty of Guadalupe-
Hidalgo, it was formally ceded by Mexico to
the U.S., and was admitted to the Union on
September 9, 1850 H.M.: P. Benoit’s
Oceanic Frangaise, S. Ferdinand-Lop’s Les Pos-
sessions Francoises du Pacifque, H. Courtet’s
Nos Etablissements en Oceanie and D. Vallet’s
La Colonisation Frangaise en N ouvelle-Cale-
donie T.M.M.: Marshal Joseph Pilsudski
was President of Poland from November 14,
1918, to December 11, 1922. His successor,
Gabriel Narutowicz, was assassinated on De-
cember 16, 1922, five days after taking office.
.... A.W.P.: Dr. Lloyd Ross is the son of the
late R. S. Ross, of Melbourne, and was born in
1901. Educated at University High School,
Melbourne, and Melbourne University H.F.:
Essays in Australian Fiction, by Barnard Elder-
sfiaw (Melbourne University Press; 65.)
N.C.: (1) No. (2) Yes. (3) Five years’ appren-
tice, 18 months junior engineer. (4) First- and
second-class B. of T. Engineers’ Exam. (5)
Yes, a fairly high one. Mathematics to leav-
ing-certificate standard, mechanics to a con-
siderably higher one. (6) No. (7) See awards.
(8) Five years. (9) None. (10) Know of none
unemployed at present 8.F.: “Sympathy,”
from “Firefly,” by Otto Hauerbach and
Rudolf Friml, was published in 1912. Play was
produced in Sydney by Charles Wenman under
direction of J. C. Williamson, and was recently
filmed. 2s. Id. posted, from W. H. Paling,
George-street, Sydney L.F.: Any person over
16 years is eligible to apply for and hold land
under the Queensland Land Acts. Females
under 21 years, however, are debarred from
selecting, subject to the condition of personal
residence. Same for married women, unless
they have an order for judicial separation or
one protecting their separate property. Write
Land Agent, District Land Office, Cairns.


S'
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
National Insurance
The fßanks Again
Change in Investment Outlook
What to Buy and Sell
Mining News All Fields
JUNE ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
HONGKONG
Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA” sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall he
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUMS,PHILP
& CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: 87901
.
■>
V-
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
33? Ouav. Wellington, N.Z
CONVEN
<s>
V
A current account with the National Bank is a
positive convenience, a time-saver, a money-saver,
and an energy-saver. You can make payments from
your desk at home instead of wandering round the
town, spending time waiting at cashiers’ desks.
When you open a current account you are made
a participant in all the many services the Bank
provides. Obtain the free booklet, “Services and
Facilities,” from the nearest Branch of the Bank.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited (Incorporated in Victoria )
49/16/38
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
8.W.K.: Bushmen suffer terribly from
dreams... .J. 8.: “Can I keep it up for long?”
Fear the worst... .D.D.: Not much behind the
headlines... .P.M.R.: Elizabeth Browning had
a more sizzling Pan Jakas: Try a woman’s
paper G.L.: Hardly a Persian carpet
M.A.M.: True rural charm :
The cockies breast the beer-stained bar
And drink their well-earned pot or two,
Then hurry home to cut some scrub
And kill for meat a tough old ewe.
. ...F.P.8.: A cheerful address, anyhow,...
R.H.: That’s a hard name for verse to live
up t 0... .S.L.R.: Send “Poem to a Far-away
Wench” far away to the far-away wench....
J.C.: Object to bombs S.K.C.: “Sniper”
shot your Muse, too R.C.: Pleasant
T.N.D.: Yes, we’ve seen that before —about
six times a week F.N.R.: Pleased to see
another weary old gold-seeker is out of the
way L.R.N.: Next time perhaps.... H.T.B. :
None of those... .J.T.: Thumbs down for that
gladiator F.R.D.: Keep at it F.D.S.:
“Where will you find anything like this?” In
the office morgue T.8.L.: Yarn is played
out... .8.G.5.: “On Wings of Song” needs
a few feathers L.8.R.: There are brighter
ways of handling it G.T.C.: Even for a
first effort it’s not very promising... .J.H.:
Du 11... .F.T.: Nothing for “Bill Brown’s Sys-
tem” R.8.D.: Try us after you’ve had a
few years’ practice M.D.C.: Don’t like
“twittering blondes” T.N.: Another like
that and we’ll be really annoyed C.D.R.:
“Food for Thought” being digested by the
w.p.b D.V.E.: Nicely done, but off our
beat... .G.L.P.: Dreadful... .L.R.S.: Too ram-
bling; tighten it and try again G.D.R.: Not
that one, but wouldn’t mind seeing some
others R.H.K.: Try it on the local daily
F.W.: Blurb P.R.T.: One page on the sun-
set, two on the sunrise and two on the moon!
All in the w.p.b 8.Y.: “I know this isn’t
what you want." Well, why waste stamps?....
P.D.S.: 4000 words on nothing is fair going.
D.S.L.: “If this is rejected I shall never
send you another story.” Going back with all
possible speed 1.L.5.: Thin ice 8.R.F.:
That’s Con Drew’s paddock... .D.M.S.: Too
many murders... .F.G.R., P.R.C., F.R. and
G.D.8.: Try them elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.G.: The tucker box passes, but not the
dog upon it nor the swagman beneath the sign-
post W.D.: That joke was old in the days
of the stovepipe hat W.M.G.: No place
here for that “Comic Cuts” style and juvenile
jests... .T.L.: The office coroner is holding an
inquest on that corpse P.A.: Figures need
propping up, and the humor has a musty odor.
... .J.W.D.: Dad and Dave appear to be para-
lysed F.S.: You’ve got a couple of old-
timers there... .M.A.J.: Not so bad as many
first efforts, but you have a long way to travel.
J.J.: Charcoal drawings too smudged;
use a fixative before sending them in F.M.:
Haphazard scratches and a chestnut W.8.L.:
We can make better use of our spare corners,
thanks... .N.G.: Promising student’s work;
look us up when you complete your studies
C.S.: Drawings are well set out, but linework
is inclined to be heavy... .W.K.: Sketches
don’t fit the gags; also the gags are ancient.
M.S.: Congratulations on the cloud effects,
but not on the remainder of the sketch
G.W.: The five-legged cow is chewing the cud
in the w.p.b T.C.: Dull conversation be-
tween skinny builder and spotted housewife.
K.L.: Take more time over them H.G.:
You’re a heavy-handed craftsman and a
melancholy gag - maker M.T.: Ankles
shapely, rest an eyesore.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Dohori”: I cannot speak for the
Malay, but am fairly well informed as
to the Papuan. If Wallace really said
that the Malay concealed his feelings
while the Papuans gave theirs wings (B.
8/6/’3B), he made the gravest error pos-
sible for a scientist or anyone else
judging each individual sausage by its
overcoat. In the matter of self-expression
the Papuan races differ in the widest
degree. On the n.-e. coast the tribes
are dour and reserved folk, even among
themselves. Temperament gradually
brightens round to the Gulf, where such
tribes as the Orokolos, so called, are
talkative, boisterous, and probably the
most generally unpleasant of Papuan
coastal peoples to mix with—thieves into
the bargain. Thence, westward through
the mud deltas, we find gloom increasing
in the ratio of westing made until the
Kiwais are reached. They are the gloom
champions of Papua—or were in my
time, though perhaps radio and reading
the reports of Hubert Murray have
cheered them up. Anyone who has seen
the mudbank on which they live will
understand their gloom.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Guinea Airways, after helping
to pioneer the New Guinea goldfields, is
pioneering the fast passenger ’plane in
the Commonwealth. Its Lockheed 14,
which can . accommodate 14 crew of
three and 11 passengers—is a later model
of a type which Tommy O’Dwyer flew
to Lae for New Guinea use a few months
ago. Top speed is 241 m.p.h. and cruis-
ing speed 227 m.p.h.—67 m.p.h. faster
than the Imperial Airways-Qantas sea-
planes which will enter the London-
Australia air-mail service on the section
this side of Singapore next month. The
I.A. mailplanes will have to compete for
passenger traffic with Lockheed machines
of this type, which are to be used by the
Dutch K.L.M. on the Batavia-Australia
service. However, the more Lockheeds
on the Australian internal routes the
merrier. A few days’ work would turn
them into bomber-fighters.
* * * *
“K.N.”: The lingering impression that
you can learn foreign languages only
when you are very young doesn’t de-
serve to linger any longer. At that Inter-
national Club swarry mentioned in B.
15/6/’3B, after Count Van Luckner had
sung his litany of the sailor, the sun,
the stars and the sea, Italy’s new Consul-
General made a speech in surprisingly
good English. When he arrived in Syd-
ney a few weeks ago he could scarcely
say an English word. Mr. Mammalello,
however, was a journalist, and journalis-
tic experience is a help in acquiring new
tongues. Apropos, the study of foreign
languages is having a mild boom in
Sydney, and you would be astonished
at the number of young people—both
sexes —who are learning Japanese.
* * * *
“K.M.”: Australian party organisa-
tions, like European Foreign Offices, are
digging up Official Spokesmen. The Vic.
U.A.P.’s spokesman blames Geelong’s
industrial expansion rather than Casey’s
clumsy assertion that Parliament is no
place for women for the Labor lady’s
3000 majority in the Assembly by-elec-
tion: “since last election there has been
an increase of 1500 on the roll.”
Actually, only 370 more people voted
at the by-election than at the Brownbill-
Austin contest in 1935. By-election en-
rolments show 10,078 women and 9137
men; at the October election the num-
bers were 10,110 and 9058.
* * * *
Yellowdine, of De Be/nales’s Westralian
group, has now produced gold worth
more than half a million in Australian
currency, and shows a working surplus
of over £400,000. This wealth has come
from about 100,000 tons of ore, and rep-
resents about two years’ production.
“F.S.”: Melbourne modernists are
forming an art society as a counterblast
to the Australian Academy. “Academic”
art is to be rigidly excluded. Enthusiasm
backed by sincerity is always to be
respected; but isn’t the new art just as
full .of conventions as the old? A man
would be a muttonhead if he could
not recognise in a modernist exhibition
here the conventions of Van Gogh, there
those of Gauguin, lover there a pot
painted just as Matisse or Cezanne would
have painted it, and alongside it an Aus-
tralian gum which could never have been
seen in that queer way if Roger Fry or
Paul Nash hadn’t painted English elms
and oaks in precisely the same way.


• a i
Perfect non-drip
Easy to fit
Long life
Registered No.
9425.
Slightest pressure cuts off
water supply
6d.
per card containing two washers
If unobtainable locally, two washers on a card, giving instructions, will
be mailed on receipt of six penny stamps. State size of tap, Jin. or Jin.
HOLDTITE, G.P.O. Box 1389 J, Sydney, N.S.W.
Two Thomas Walkers
The drawing reproduced in this article
was made by William Macleod for The
Bulletin of July 14, 1883. In the issue
of September 11, 1886, the death of the
subject of the cut was announced in these
terms:
That venerable and benevolent million-
aire Mr. Thomas Walker, of Yaralla, Con-
cord, Sydney, died last week, aged 82.
There are a lot of people who are quite
sorry it wasn’t another Thomas Walker.
Deceased left £2,000,000, of which his
daughter gets £500,000 an(d the probate duty
fund £BO,OOO.
The other Thomas Walker wouldn’t have
been welcome at Yaralla. He lectured
professionally on Freethought and the
French Revolution, and got into the
N.S.W. Assembly as member for
Northumberland. Henry Parkes thought
highly of him, and when Tommy Walker
(no one ever called him anything but
“Tommy”) came out as a writer, pro-
ducer and actor of plays Henry made a
point of attending the first performance
—there were never many more. Tommy’s
masterpiece was “Marmondelle [“Mar-
malade” to the gods] the Moor” :
Marmondelle, Thomas Walker. The
THOMAS WALKER, of Yaralla.
Moor was a thickset, heavy-footed man
with a walrus moustache.
Tommy had to leave N.S.W. politics
and N.S.W. itself under a cloud. Mad
with drink, he blazed away with a re-
volver and shot a parson. There was
good stuff in both parties to the episode:
the parson helped to get Tommy off and
Tommy, taking the pledge (he kept it),
migrated to Westralia. There he gave
the French Revolution another spin, and
when the Westralians tired of the French
Revolution he started writing for the
papers. He became editor of the “Sun-
day Times” and the Kalgoorlie “Sun,”
won a Labor nomination for a pocket
borough, Kanowna, and entered the State
Parliament. He lived to become Attorney-
General and Speaker, surviving the
storms of the conscription controversy —
Westralian Labor did not
expel conscriptionists who
didn’t want to leave it;
and Tommy was one.
The first Bulletin refer-
ence to the passing of the
Yaralla Walker was writ
sarcastic. On September
18, 1886, the following was
published:
Once more, and with much regret, do we
feel compulsion to subscribe ourselves
Advocatus Diabolus. For an old man died
a couple of weeks ago, and there has been
constant effort since to make of him a
saint —Mr. Thomas Walker, of Concord,
Saint Thomas by the verdict of the Sydney
daily press and the pulpits of the city.
He died worth £2,000,000. He had
been worth something like that for years
past. He had known that hunger and want
existed in the colony and the city, practi-
cally at his door. He was a churchman,
and he knew that the church he favored
was languishing for want of funds. He
knew also that all the artistic life of the city
was poverty-stricken, pining for need of a
little generous encouragement; and yet he
lived and died worth his two millions, and
the hunger and want remained unappeased.
He gave £lO,OOO once in one year to
various charities —a fraction, maybe, of
one year’s surplus, a portion of what re-
mained after satisfying his every want;
and the drum ecclesiastic in pulpit and
press was beaten about it, and the whole
world summoned to do homage to a charit-
able man.
A charitable man forsooth! The trades-
man who gives five shillings to a hard-up
mate is a thousand times more deserving
of the title. There is no charity without,
sacrifice, and sacrifice, unless to himself,
Thomas Walker never made.
As many another rich banker, merchant
and agent in the city, he had ground the
bones of victims innumerable to build up
his golden mountain, upon which he sat
through all his later years, impotent and
joyless, simply a barrier preventing a vast
supply of fertilising wealth from doing its
proper work in the world.
Thomas Walker of Yaralla did not cut
up for quite £2,000,000, nor did he for-
get the claims of charity in his will.
Neither did his daughter, Dame Eadith
Walker, who died last year. Particularly
was she grateful to the Diggers, and
dying she remembered them.
Under the terms of her father’s will
Dame Eadith occupied Yaralla as a life-
“You shouldn't have done it, Henry. He Was only doing his duty!"
tenant and received the income from his
estate after payment of legacies. It was
provided that if she died without issue
—as she did —one-half of the estate, less
£20,000 placed at her disposal for dis-
tribution, should be held on certain
charitable trusts, and that the other half
should go “to the person or persons who
at the time of my daughter’s death should
be of my blood and next of kin, and who
if I had died intestate at that time would
be entitled to my personal estate under
the statute for distribution of intestacies.”
The N.S.W. Master in Equity has entered
upon the task of deciding who the person
or persons are.
The Walkers were Scots. Thomas’s
father, a merchant of Leith, married in
1778, and his wife brought him seven
children. It has always been understood
in Australia that six of the children died
without leaving issue, but it has been
suggested that this may be disputed.
Anyway, Thomas Walker had cousins—
no Scottish family is ever without them
—and since the glad report went round
the Scottish world that a £450,000 Walker
estate is ready for the slicing cousins
have surged up in formidable numbers.
Fifth cousins of Dame Eadith, living at
the time of her death; cousins more dis-
tant ; cousins many times removed. There
are others who claim on such grounds
as that a certain Captain Jonathan
Griffiths, owner of sloops and brigs and
one of the early Hawkesbury settlers,
was really Jonathan Walker, and that
Jonathan’s daughter married a William
Walker who was kin to Thomas Walker.
The claimants include a marchioness,
a baronet, a knight’s wife and a colonel,
every continent being represented. To
the middle of last week they (claimants,
not continents) numbered six hundred,
and more are communicating by every
mail. There has been nothing like it
since the Charge of the other Six Hun-
dred. There are so many local claimants
and benevolently interested friends and
so many barristers and solicitors are ap-
pearing (naturally it is a time of intense
gratification for the N.S.W. Bar) that the
Master in Equity has had to transfer the
proceedings from “a court the size of a
tramcar” (“S. M. Herald’s” apt expres-
sion) “to the more spacious No. 3 Court.”
He will be occupied on the case for
several months, and the thing may drag
on for years if there should be appeals.
When Dame Eadith’s grandparents
were married George the Third had been
king for 18 years; Saratoga had been
fought and England was at war with
France and about to be embroiled with
Spain. She herself entertained in Sydney
George’s great-great-great-grandson, the
prince who was to quit the throne for “the
woman I love.” Her father remembered
the Retreat from Moscow, Vittoria and
Waterloo, and was a contemporary of
William Blake, Scott, Wordsworth,
Byron, Shelley and Keats; his father
doubtless saw Burns at Leith and prob-
ably knew men who had fought for and
against Bonnie Prince Charlie. So can
great periods of history be linked by two
or three long lives!


DISLOCATED ELBOW
LED TO NEURITIS
Could Not Straighten Her
Arm.
Four months ago this woman dislocated
her left elbow. Although the elbow was
properly set, she developed neuritis and could
not straighten her arm. She was ordered to
take Kruschen —with the happy result described
in this letter:
“I had an accident four months ago, and
my elbow was seriously dislocated. Fortu-
nately, it was set right there and then, but
afterwards I could not straighten the arm to
its full extent. It was X-rayed, and the surgeon
specialist told me I was inclined to be rheu-
matic. I was ordered to take Kruschen Salts —
one teaspoonful in a glass of hot water on
waking. Now I am getting along famously.
The pain in my elbow is better, and daily
I am able to extend the arm more easily.”—
(Mrs.) P.
Rheumatic conditions are the result of an ex-
cess of uric acid in the body. Two of the
ingredients of Kruschen Salts have the power
of dissolving uric-acid crystals. Other ingredi-
ents assist Nature to expel these dissolved
crystals through the natural channels.
\
Pjr*
o»
itirti
05
Doctors say that it your Hormone Glands ana
nerves function well you will be vigorous ana
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remed;
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or writi
direct for particulars of this MODERN
TREATMENT.
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
A Self-contained Sanitary System.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Approved by Board of Health.
HYGIENIC, INNOCUOUS.
No odours, flies,
germs or noise.
Provides one
amenity of City
life. Over 6f>o
in use. Shell Oil
Co., 59 repeat
orders; Bank
N.S.W., 15. In-
stalled by Com-
monwealth Govt.,
Hotels, Hospitals,
Schools, Private
Homes, Theatres,
etc. Can be installed where Septic Tanks, are
impracticable. Simply installed. Cheap to run.
Automatic. Price £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney. £l6
other States. Write for free pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney.
■ 1
s
•; uuj:;: rrn^l
<pUE PERFECT BA
%
rp|[E PERFECT
\v
A Whisky with
Many Qualities
Canadian Club Whisky—bottled in bond at pre-war
strength—has a delightful mildness and softness with
a noticeably clean taste to the palate. It is the pro-
duct of over 70 years' experience, and sets a standard
of perfection that is seldom equalled and never
excelled. The age of every bottle of Canadian Club
Whisky is certified by a stamp affixed round the neck
of the bottle.
Agents
John Woods & Co. Ltd.
388 Sussex St.,
Sydney
DISTILLED BY HIRAM WALKER & SONS LTD.,
WALKERVILLE. ONTARIO, CANADA, SINCE
1858.
PQ
H=3
»<
H-H CD
sa
fsd
“HWfiTEA”
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
f
History in Bricks and Mortar
By “VETERAN CYNIC.”
The actuarial length of human life is
now about 50 years. Since the com-
mencement of white settlement in Aus-
tralia, the world has been emptied and
refilled three times. In this country of
ours as each lot went out it left its mark
on the houses in which it had lived.
In old N.S.W. towns like Parramatta,
Windsor and Liverpool these tracks of
the first generation may still be seen. They
are houses with verandah roof coming
straight down from that of the main
building, giving the effect of a hen shelter-
"What are you posing for, Lulu ?”
“Oh, just practising for the next bunch of tourists."
ing a brood of chickens under her wing
and clucking the slogan of last century’s
well-to-do, “Be content with the station
of life in which it pleased Providence to
have placed you.”
The next era brought architecture of
a more self-assertive type. Separate
verandah roofs, now with a jaunty up-
curve figuring the who-the-devil-are-you
stare of nascent democracy about to
demand one man one vote. The posts
which used to be modestly rounded took
the form of a politician boasting that he
“stood four-square” for the cause of the
people, and they were connected by
shockingly elaborate iron railings. The
houses were severely rectangular, and the
more pretentious of them aggravated the
iron-railing offence by a “bay window”
aggressively projecting from one of the
corners.
In a dwelling of that sort the man with
a genteel blackcoated job lived. The
shirt-sleever had a blank weatherboard
cottage, with a skillion languidly leaning
against the back wall and a back chimney
stuck way up out of one of the gables.
The rich built themselves solid stone
mansions, set back with haughty aloof-
ness in gardens laid out like propositions
in the fourth book of Euclid, behind
heavy stone-pillared iron gates. In the
latter half of the epoch they began adding
towers with a stand-off-the-grass attitude
towards democracy, which they warned
to mind its step or capital would leave
the country.
With, the coming of the present genera-
tion all this in its turn passed. The
people who used to live in the iron-rail-
verandahed, bay-windowed, decently
private suburban homes are now in rows
of standardised “bungalows,” so planned
that the side windows of one look straight
into those of the other five or six feet
away, an arrangement giving less privacy
than the most-tightly-squeezed-up terrace
in a city slum. But it saves the moral
situation on a technical point for the
landlord when he advertises them as
“modern bungalows standing in their
own grounds.”
From the bigger houses the tower has
disappeared. It had to go. With Labor
Governments in three States, its warning
about capital leaving the country would
be an object of derision. But unfortu-
nately the sober contour of the buildings
has gone, too, giving place to flighty
architectural conceptions with a mere-
tricious effect.
Worst of all, in dreary contrast to this
has come the up-to-date pile of flats,
looking like a boot-factory from without
and with domestic privacy sacrificed to
“economy” within. On top of the lank,
ungainly structure is a roof like a child’s
hat sheepishly tipped back from the fore-
head of his inebriated uncle.
What of the next generation? To the
N.S.W. sesquicentenary celebration abo-
riginals in ironed shirts and silk neckties
were brought in from the bush, while
fashionable white men and women were
parading in public places in little more
than the blackfellows who greeted Cap-
tain Cook had on. These people prefer
to live in motor-cars, cabarets and dance-
halls. What sort of houses will their
children build? Will their homes be
bomb-proof caves or the open jungle?
“Passenger”: That old Australian
“rolling stone” S.S. Werribee continues
to roll, but under yet another name. She
carried coal out of Newcastle for the
Huddart Parker Co. until sold about five
years ago to a concern in Shanghai, when
she took the name of Hua Shan. Now
news comes that she is part of a Chinese-
Italian co. in the same port, and has
suddenly become the Granatiere Padula
—a long step from Werribee.
HS
“Flutter”: The tremendous vogue of
the “pools” on Soccer football in Eng-
land has induced some optimist to float
a company to run a tote on the games.
Patrons can “invest” —as the pony press
likes to call it—on half-time or full-time
scores, total goals and the first player or
side to goal. The company proposes to
pay a proportion of profits to the Foot-
ball League if the latter consents to the
scheme. The pool system hands out
nothing to the League.


two years before she could marry without her fathers
consent, and Dick Sackville and his regiment would
surely be far away by then.
To-night’s letter he read more than qnce, smoked
several pipes over it, refusing sharply to join the sing-
song round the fires. Tiffany was coming down into
the Waikato to marry him, and he must at once let
her know on what date he could be at Rotorua after
September 21. “It is all arranged, and my joy is
doubled by knowing that you will share it,” she wrote.
“I fear you may have trouble in keeping your wife
in order, sir. But have patience, always remember-
ing that the soul would have no rainbows had the
eyes no tears” Then at the end: “I love you. I
lie awake in the nights, and a thousand times I tell
all the gods that be how 1 love you, and surely one
will cease his carousing in Olympus and turn the
bullet that would enter my heart, too”
Sackville could see her writing in that attic;
with the candle in its flat china stick on the dressing-
table between a little heap of her hair-ribbons and
the plain wooden brush. The unwieldy cage of her
crinoline would be hung over a chair, and Tiffany
curled on the knobby counterpane in her petticoats ;
the long waves of her bright hair tumbling over her
neck, her rounded arms ... Of course he wanted her,
even to the extent of sacrificing his career —which
was what it would mean if.the story got out. Pere-
grine Love! and his own colonel would see to that.
Abduction of a minor, he thought grimly. And whom
she had found to help her to such a fantastic affair
he did not know. Suddenly he thrust the letter into
the fire with his heel, and went to join his mates as
the last black scrap of it crisped away.
CAMPFIRE talk was liable to be fretful in these
days, and men looking to Dick Sackville for cheer
did not get it to-night. Unshaven, dirty gentlemen who
were wont to be so monstrous fastidious grumbled
for ever about the Maori, whose methods were ob-
scenely exasperating to soldiers trained in the respec-
table elements of war. So few of the fools wanted
to clean up or be cleaned.
The Maoris made a jest-of the sacred solemnity
of fighting for one’s life. “Lie down, we are going
to shoot,” shouted brown, muscular young bucks,
dodging naked behind tree-boles. And when patrols
got lost (as they so often did in this dark ancientry
of forest) there was always some grinning nigger to
guide them back to camp for the reward of the coveted
black tobacco. English officers round the fires could
hardly express their rage at these blithe enemies.
“Insultin’ brutes,” complained a captain, whose
elegant dundrearies were more than a little ragged.
“Did you hear what they did when Corby’s company
ran out of powder yesterday? Some blasted chief
sent to offer him half theirs. ‘Don’t stop—it’s such
fun,’the chief said. Fun! My Lord! Do they think
we’re here just to provide amusement for bloody
niggers?”
There was equal puzzlement among the Maoris,
among chiefs who knew their begats back to the race
of giants which once had peopled the world. These
pakeha did not play the game like gentlemen. Indeed,
they seemed not to understand that war is principally
a game of skill, and they showed so little skill that
one had to pity them. Tramping in heavy boots that
could be heard by Maori ears a mile off, crashing like
bullocks through the scrub, blunting the honorable
weapons of war by cutting paths with them, destroy-
ing their shoulder-muscles by marching with forty-
pound packs —how take so stupid a people seriously,
said Maoris, clad merely in tattoo, paint and bando-
liers, and as noiseless as the little -wrens. Yet the
pakeha were brave, though discourteous, never either
taking or offering ammunition when one side ran out
of it.
We will kill more when they have learned how
to fight, said the chiefs.
TIFFANY and Darien, riding with Nick Flower
into the Waikato through the bright September
weather, saw few enough of the carts with their blue-
blanketed sufferers just come off the river steamers ;
yet it was wise to keep hands hid within the great
belted coats above the breeches and short leggings,
to keep fair faces shadowed by the slouching drovers’
hats. The Maoris brought by Flower to tend the
pack-horses had no English, but Tiffany wouldn’t
have cared if they had, thought Darien, marvelling.
To a lady whose own self has always been of the
supremest importance Tiffany’s total absorption in
someone else was so unnatural as to be quite un-
settling. And then at last, after long days of riding
and cold nights in friendly Maori whares, they came
into Rotorua with its hot mud, steaming geysers and
sulphur stinks.
Tiffany saw none of it, being in paradise, where
Dick would presently join her ; and when Nick Flower
was gone after the necessary priest she stood with
Darien at the foot of the White Terrace out by Lake
Tarawera dreaming while Darien dabbled her feet
in the warm pools and wondered how she would ever
get the Lincolns home.
Nick Flower would have to manage that, for she
had done her share of managing lately. Exchanging
Tiffany for Lucilla at the farm, bluffing John into the
belief that they were going back to town and so leav-
ing him anchored fast with all the animals and in-
efficient Maori help, bluffing Tiffy into the belief
that everything would be all right, though feeling it
very unlikely that Dick Sackville would turn up . . .
Riding back to Rotorua, which was no more than
a few collections of Maori whares, Tiffany was still in
the dream. Darien was somewhat uneasy. Tiffy
always ran a thing to death.
But it was over the sooner.,
and the sooner Tiflfy got
over Dick Sackville the
better—especially since he
mightn't come. Perhaps
she’ll be an R.C. next time
and go into a nunnery,
thought Darien hopefully,
having no patience with the spiritual strivings which
so uncomfortably attacked Sally and Tiffany and
Roddy.
Nick Flower arrived with a scared little priest,
who must be Dutch or something, since his English
was very poor. “Can he do it?” asked Darien, a little
anxious, for men so often made a mess of things,
though unfortunately one had to depend on them. But
Flower pooh-poohed Darien’s doubts, and Tiffy was
already out in the moonlight waiting for Sackville and
probably marshalling all her religions back to Osiris
to support her. So Darien got into an old green
gown—shockingly crumpled, as Nick Flower’s eyes
told her instantly. But it did become her, making
her , feel so frivolous that presently she and Nick
forgot the little priest sitting dumb in a corner and
Tiffy in her white gown out under the stars. If Sack-
ville don’t come she will throw herself into a geyser.
We really should have chosen a drier place, thought
Darien, remembering Tiffany for a moment.
For Tiffany, the thumping of her heart almost
drowned the constant thumping of the geysers. Those
past triumphant hours held deeper meaning now that
all the gods were prepared to bless and crown them,
though she would have liked a Mohammedan service
too. Papa’s Our Father was the sternest of them all,
thought Tiffany, feeling rather a frightened little girl
again, wishing that Roddy were here with her in this
great lonely night.
Here came Captain Richard. Sackville, footing it
down the slope like a conqueror, his dark military
cloak spread behind him like wings, the moonlight a
benediction on his head.
Sudden terror of Captain Sackville obliterated
her beloved “Dick.” Tiffany tried to run from him.
But her feet wouldn’t help. She stood trembling, her
head turned away. Afterwards he thought how she
couldn’t have done anything more clever, for he had
not come in the spirit of a bridegroom. In fact, he
felt resentfully, he would not be here at all but for the
fear that these importunate lunatics >vould pursue him
into camp. Far better to have left it ... life so un-
certain ... no knowing what trouble this might land
them in, he had meant to say. If girls will be light-
minded such things are bound to happen, and why
should I have to pay for it, he had thought.
Then that slight white girl with the faint glory
in her, hair had turned to fly from him. Hurry-
ing down the slope he remembered her proud, shy,
and utterly desirable, holding him off though love was
shining from her face.
SO there was old Dame Nature at it again, hearing
the same vows and protestations she had heard a
million million times, watching the same old tech-
nique of kisses which foolish glowing Tiffany be-
lieved were fresh-minded for her alone.
“One to my three or four. That’s not the game,
my Queen of Hearts. After I have come so far, too.”
Along half a dozen roads she had come infinitely
farther, but neither thought of that. Her upturned
face was so tender in its penitence. “Indeed, indeed,
I will try to be all that you would have me,” she
whispered. So he’d go through with it, for what
living man could resist her, thought Dick Sackville,
who had never been a man of much resistance.
Flower saw that the moment they came in. Good
Lord, all this burgeoning and blooming for such a
paper fellow! He greeted Sackville indifferently.
These two were only pawns to Flower, whose real
business, was with Darien. No woman was worth
a man’s pity. Not even Darien.. . .
To that bleak certainty Flower had reached when
compacting with Darien in the little Auckland tavern.
For the rest, chance must be the arbiter, and if the
dice were thrown against the women who’s to blame?
Not Flower, but the great laws of good and evil who
make such jest of us all.
He, leaning against the rough wall, watching the
women prepare the altar, hearing Sackville’s ready
laugh, wondered if the little parson, so greedy for
dollars, were actually a parson after all. _He had
not pressed the point, did not mean to press it even if
he could have understood the fellow’s gibberish. This
time, if chance so had it, he might strike Mrs. Lovel
and Peregrine both. As for Darien, he’d settle with
her later if only he could get her now.
I leave it to chance, thought Flower, placating
with Maori superstition any gods that might be. The
scene is all set now anyway.
Two candles on a board covered with a white
silken shawl, a dark eager ring of Maori faces in the
door, the distant thump of the geysers, Nick Flower
and Darien like ghosts among the shadows ■ • • 3 !l ' s
was the pomp and panoply lor Tiffany s S>
with strange acrid incense from the sulphur-p •
Darien clapped her hands when Tiftany s ring
went on. Again she had done the impossible, <.
she so often had. Luck is always with me, si
thought. Tiffany stood quiet and shining like a lamp.
The little parson chattered in English and an unknown
tongue. Sackville made glib responses, nudged u -
fany to hers. Flower drew a long breath when ai
was done. So far so good, though Sackville s a m usec
eyes kept asking: What is your reason tor all this.
Then Darien, glowing almost as vividly as her hair,
was kissing Tiffany, kissing Sackville, kissing the
parson, not kissing Flower. But she looked at him
over a glass of the best champagne Flower could buy
in Auckland.
“I vow I never did see anything so romantic
before. I’ll be married next time in a Maori whare
at midnight myself,” she cried.
it r\lD you mean that about your marriage? asked
W Flower when, after much laughter (even Tiffany
was laughing now), the bridal pair were left in
a whare prepared for them, and these two stood out
under the stars. .
“I never mean anything much,” said Darien,
yawning with the champagne.
“Why do you think I put myself to all this
trouble?” , ,
“Lord, how do I know? I never wonder why
men do things.” .
“Then please wonder now,” he said, roughly,
standing before her in the door. “Darien, will you
marry me to-night? It seems a pity to waste that
priest.”
“Let me sit down and get my breath, said
Darien, pushing past him. I knew he couldn’t resist
me much longer, she thought, preparing to plague
him.
“Shouldn’t there be some love in it, Mr. Flower?
Tiffy seems to think so.”
“I didn’t know that would interest you.” Deter-
mination, his whole reckless self, seemed to be desert-
ing him. “I would never tie myself to any woman
unless —unless she meant what you do to me.”
To have made Nick Flower nervous wgs the big-
gest thing yet. Darien looked round. The candles,
though guttering, still burned. There was still an
unopened bottle of champagne. The priest’s boots
showed in a corner, and apparently he was in them.
As Flower said, it seemed a pity to waste him.
“I suppose you want me to help you rule New
Zealand,” she said, pinching her lip, looking down.
“No.” He laughed shakily. “She has too many
rulers already, poor divine little country. I —l want
you because I love you, Darien.”
“Oh!” She was disappointed. Any man could
(and did) want that. She thought quickly. Money
was his, honor might be. But he’d keep them, and
she wanted such things for herself . . . He said with
defiant diffidence:
“You’re thinking what you’d get out of it. I
have money”
“You mean you’d buy me?”
“Is there any other way to get you?”
Darien considered. “We’re both too strong.
We’d be cat and dog for ever.”
“I’ll chance that.”
“Well, I think I won’t. I’d be second fiddle all
the time with you, and I’d hate it . . . Here . . . don’t
do that” . . .
But she was helpless against the broken hope
and fury in him ; struggling in his arms, scratching
her face against the roughness of his coat.
“You have no heart,” he said, breathing hard
with trying to hold her. “My God, you have no
heart . . . Take, take and never a bone to throw at
a dog. I’m going to take now”
“Keep off!” screamed Darien, raging under his
kisses.
They had forgot the little priest, now stumbling
forward with a white face.
“Canaille ! Leave be la belle madame. I kill.
I call on your God”
He endeavored to do both. Flower knocked him
over with the back of his hand; then, suddenly
trampling across him, rushed out of the place.
“Now you’ve made a nice mess of it,” said
Darien, sitting down with a short laugh. “How am
I ever going to get those Lincolns now?”
The little man picked himself up.
“C’est une triomphe,” he said, returning to his
corner with a proud step.
(To be continued.)
Look Now for Country Atlas.
Soft weight of russet light
On field, on woodland sleeping,
For all its dusk tells clearer
Than noon’s blue bushfire leaping
Elate among the trees,
What load of sad, what shadow
The land’s true being is.
Now quenched with dew, with truth,
The trees my dream’s blue flame
Had burned to pillared silver,
Move to the night, proclaim
Allegiance dark and fast
With the brute earth that under
The auburn dusk grows vast
Look now for country Atlas.
Lightly enough he bears
Who moves among dark trees
His load of simple cares,
The wood to warm him by,
The paddock thick with grass,
The stack not built; but I,
True load not shouldered yet
And nowhere here to find,
Feel the red-brown light a burden
Lowering on my mind,
And turn with heavy tread
Homeward from farm and Atlas
To glass and book and bed.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


THE
BERNARD
CRONIN
STORY
WRITING
COURSE
ADMITTEDLY the highest form of recom-
mendation is that which is personal and spon-
taneous. One of the most satisfactory features
of Bernard Cronin’s system of individual
training in story-writing is the large number
of appreciative letters sent to him by his pupils,
both present and past. These letters treat of
story-writing not only as a source of income
but also as a pleasurable pursuit and a mental
stimulus. Particular emphasis is often laid
upon the energising influence of the introductory
Lessons. A typical example is the following:
“I wish that I had taken your instruction
years ago. It makes me groan to think of my
past feeble, jumbled efforts —and of the appal-
ling waste of ink and energy. These instruc-
tion papers are a series of revelations. It’s
remarkable how one thinks along certain worn-
out grooves.
“I feel now that I have just broken out of
an egg, to stand astonished by undreamed-of
vistas of a new life.” —R.H., New South Wales.
Bernard Cronin’s Course is a masterpiece
of expert practicality. The components of a
story—-theme, plot, openings, dialogue, charac-
terisation and description—the very names of
which excite the imagination, and the awe, of
literary aspirants, are considered in detail, with
a wealth of illustration and practical advice
that at once removes many of the more serious
obstacles from the path of the beginner.
The Course consists of ten Lessons. The
Exercises on each Lesson include the writing
of original stories to be submitted to Bernard
Cronin for personal criticism and advice. The
general object is to save each pupil much of
the wasted effort and the discouragement that
try the strength of every writer who has to
find his own way amongst the pitfalls in the
path that leads to publication; the particular
object is to select from stories submitted in
exercise one or more for polish and revision to
bring it or them to publication standard.
In addition to teaching Story-Writing and
Writing for Radio, Bernard Cronin criticises
the MSS. of writers who have had only a
limited success. This critical service has proved
of great value to many whose work some-
times, through minor faults of construction or
presentation, has failed to make the grade. One
such wrote:
“I must tell you how valuable and helpful
your criticism has been since the moment I
brought the story to you. I feel now that I
have a solid foundation to build on, and am
quite eager to begin.”- —A.T., Victoria.
Another: “/ have derived great help from
your kindly and frank criticisms, and feel that
you have taken a real and personal interest in
the work I have submitted.” —P.C., South Aus-
tralia.
Young writers, or writers who are in any
way discouraged, are invited to write fully
and frankly to Bernard Cronin.
Address:
BERNARD CRONIN,
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
C.l.
dsf
A few of hundreds of
letters received last
year.
sth July, 1937.—“ Naturally, there have
been a few occasions when certain
episodes have occurred to upset, tem-
porarily, the smoothness of life, but I
ca 1 led Pelmanism into action, and it
worked.”
10th July, 1937.—“1 am building a
Scheme of Life on Pelinan lines. I have
no doubt that this Scheme will be
challenged innumerable times, but I am
quite confident, that it will survive and
be strengthened as time goes on.”
29th July, 1937.—“ My appointment,
although in part the reward for much
hard work, is also to a very great extent
a tribute to the‘excellence of your Train-
ing, since it taught me how to get the
most out of that work, and 1 consider
myself very much in your debt.”
30th July, 1937.—“1 have just learned
that 1 have passed my final exams, with
three credits and one pass. This is the
best I have done so far.”
22nd February, 1937. —“At my employ-
ment, I find that 1 am being gradually
given more responsibility—more trust-
worthy duties to carry out.”
22nd February, 1937.—“1 now find no
difficulty in giving a quarter of an hour’s
debate in a firm voice, and with very few
notes.”
3rd November, 1937. —“When I do have
something to worry about I do not
indulge in dull, negative thinking, but
deal with it by reasoning and by con-
stmotive reflection.”
13th October, 1937.—“1t has taught me
to respect my job. I have a greater
respect for money and am better off
financially than I was before taking up
the Course.”
24tli October, 1937.—“1 do not feel
nervous of my superiors, and conse-
quently am a better worker.”
PELMANISM
DEVELOPS
Self-Confidence
Observation
Concentration
Judgment
Will-Power
Decision
Initiative
Social Ease
and a Reliable Memory for faces,
figures, facts and useful data of
every kind.
Pelmanism is a complete training of
the individual’s Mind, Memory and
Personality. Get a copy of 4 ‘The
Efficient Mind,” posted free.
Some of the phrases in the letters alongside
are commented on in the following paragraphs:
“I do not feel nervous of my superiors.” When this condition
comes about, men and women are themselves in the superior class.
They are of the kind whose efforts are not checked, confused and
stultified by fear. They are free .from self-consciousness and
timidity.
“More responsibility, more trustworthy duties to carry out.
When this happens to men and women they are on the easy way
to a happy and successful working life; easy, because, first, they
have learned to accept responsibility, and, secondly, because
others are recognising their abilities.
“A quarter of an hour’s debate, with very few notes.” The
ability to speak acceptably and with confidence in public has
been given to many people by the sections in the Pelman Train-
ing given to our relations with other people.
“Deal with problems by reasoning and by constructive reflec-
tion.” A dispassionate view of our own circumstances is not
always easy. Right thinking and control of the emotions will
enable us to get it. Pelmanism deals exhaustively with this
important aspect of our inner personal life.
“Passed my final exams, with three credits.” An example
of the application of Pelmanism to practical requirements.
Pelmanism’s satisfaction of individual needs is one of the reasons
of its world-wide popularity. It helps men and women to succeed
in their endeavours.
“Called Pelmanism into action and it worked.” The Pelman
System is a life system. It substitutes good habits of mind and
memory for careless and slovenly ones, and they work in all the
circumstances of life.
Pelmanism is not a panacea for all ills. It is a training of
the mind and a development of the personality to help men and
women in the ways of earning a livelihood, and something more.
It shows them how to make use of the means to culture and
education that are available to everyone, how to enjoy their
leisure, and how to meet other people agreeably and comfortably.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, describing the Pelman Course,
are posted free on application to The Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester
House, 396 Flinders Lane (corner Market Street ). Melbourne. TAU
inquiries are treated as confidential. Wnte, call or telephone MUzJdj.
Pelmanism is scientific development
of Mind, Memory and Personality.
The Pelman Institute is a World-Wide organisation of
nearly 40 years standing. Its headquarters are in London.
There are over half a million World Pelmanists; over 39,000 have enrolled
with the Institute in Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Please send me, free and post-free,
a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
478
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
n
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue,
I enclose 24/- [plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection of
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone. .>
&
PAGES
&
,9
c°;
(Postage 2d. extra)
Obtainable
\9
only
&
from
a*.
#
Price 1/6
S®
y>
b\
A*
j.
\\ e
o'-
V>
vS-
yx


n
lift
< i
mm
>Olll
I’lll
!'Mil 1,1,
ill W
ALL OUT
FOR
0
G/LBEVS
. . . . and the reason Is that
G/LBEY’S now COSTS NO
MORE THAN ORDINARY GINS
Keep a bo’tle of Gilbey*s in the house ; it is
good company for the small hours when
listening in to the Tests and the finest and
most palatable household safeguard against
the ills and chills of Winter.
'Don't 6aLj (jin,6aq
'°jMi
B
tf - A v-
%
Ay
W &A
'd
a 'lB
! £y-
'-’a
-M
USSI
m
m
H h T#<-
'm
‘w
•2y.
,>v
m
H
SN.
Sam
S?&
'erf
a nd
■rai^
■m s
y h ‘>
Gi/ b
‘ehly
v*
reeti.
Jjßr
of
0
’°o
THE GIN OF GENERRTIONS
